

Due to inclement conditions, there will be no weather today. 
Vol. VI, No. 63 
Congress receives budget; record deficit predicted 
by Edwin L. Dale Jr. 
(c) 1972 New York Times 

WASHINGTON, Jan. 24--President Nixon today sent his third budget to Congress showing a cumulative deficit of $87 billion for the three years of his term. 
The deficit figure is without precedent, for Republican or Democratic presidents, except for unusual conditions of world war II. 
The New Budget for fiscal year 1973 puts outlays at $246.3 billion and receipts at $220.8 billion--both figures, in light of recent experience, subject to wide margins of error. If the current fiscal year 1972 is any test, the estimated deficit of $25.5 billion for fiscali973 will turn out to be much larger. 
Nixon made no apologies for his big deficits. He said the deficit planned for next year would stimulate economic recovery at a proper pace without risking a new wave of inflation. 
"Deficit spending at this time, like temporary wage and price controls, is strong but necessary medicine," the president said. "We take that medicine because we need it, not because we like it; as our economy successfully combats unem­ployment, we will stop taking the medicine well before we become addicted to it." 
For the current fiscal year, now half completed, the president estimated the deficit at $38.8 billion, by far the largest "peacetime" deficit in history. A year ago, for this same budget year, the deficit was Pstimated at $11.6 billion. 
The huge error was caused by a number of fac­tors, but the main one was the failure of the economy to grow robustly last year, which in turn, cut back receipts to the federal government. The sluggish economy is a major element in all three deficits. 
The budget contains no proposals for tax in­creases, except for the perennial request for $300 million in higher taxes on truckers which is regularly rejected by Congress. Social security taxes would rise for many, however, because of the proposed increase in the "wage base" from $9,000 to $10,200, effective this year. 
Despite the growth of government spending under his administration to nearly $250 billion, Nixon expressed pride in his record, saying that "the rate of increase in government spending has been cut nearly in half compared to the three comparable years before this administration took office." Noting that individuals this year will pay $22 billion less in taxes than under the laws in effect in 1969, he added: 
"The basic shift in the government's fiscal 
philosophy has gone relatively unnoticed. The 
upward curve of federal spending is beginning to 
flatten out, while the federal income tax 'bite' out of 
the individual paycheck is becoming measurably 
less." 
In a separate message today, the president asked 

the notre dame-saint mary's community Tuesday, January 25, 1972 
Congress to enact for the first time "an absolute limit on spending" for the new fiscal year at the hudget level of $246.3 billion. The ceiling would apply to Congress itself as well as to the executive branch of government. The president said, "It is vital that the executive and Congress act together to stop raids on the treasury which would trigger another inflationary spiral." 
Regardless of the demonstrated inaccuracy of the over-all spending and receipts estimates in modern budgets, the new budget, like its predecessors, involved major and meaningful choices on in­dividual programs. The salient choice in this budget, confirmed by high officials talking privately, was a big increase in defense allocation after several years of essential leveling out. 
Because of the long "lead times" in building ships, planes and other weapons, actual defense spending will not rise much--about $700 million in fiscal 1973 to an estimated $76.5 billion but new spending authority, if Congress agrees, will jump about $6 billion to $83.4 billion, meaning higher outlays later. 
Mainly because of the momentum of existing domestic "human resource" programs, above all social security, defense outlays will continue, for the fifth consecutive year to have a s smaller share of the total budget, despite the proposed increase. 
The same is even more true of other parts of the budget that have long been a matter of controversy­-space, foreign aid, farm subsidies, the highway program. Each of these is now, relatively speaking, almost tiny and some, like foreign aid and space, are actually declining. 
The huge growth in total outlays has come in domestic cash grants from Washington-to people and to state and local governments, mainly under laws enacted before Nixon became president, but partly under laws he has proposed. In the new budget, he again placed high priority on revenue­sharing with state and local governments-a form of direct grants with few restrictions on use--to the tune of $5.3 billion in the new fiscal year, if Congress approves.$ Nixon asked that revenue sharing be retroactive to last Jan. 1, and thus he included $2.5 billion for this account in the current fiscal year. 
In his message, the President said the "Central 
purpose" of the budget was "a new prosperity for 
all Americans without the stimulus of war and 
without the drain of inflation." 
The category of the budget called "income 
security"--cash payments to people -has soared to 
$69.7 billion in the new budget, up from $55.7 billion 
in fiscal 1971. Social security is the biggest item-­
andis not limited to the poor--but the category also 
includes rapidly growing welfare, food stamp, 
unemployment compensation and various military 
and civilian government employee retirement 
(continued on page 3) 


by Fred P. Graham 
(c) 1972 New York Times 
Washington, Jan. 24--The Supreme Court 
unanimously struck down today "emergency" laws 
passed last year by the New York and Connectitut 
legislatures in efforts to curb rising welfare costs by 
barring state welfare aid to persons who had not 
resided in the states at least one year. 
Both st~tes ha~ sought to avoid a 1969 Supreme 
Cou~t ruhng agamst such residency restrictions by 
calhng them necessary to avert financial 
catastrophies due to mushrooming welfare costs. 
_Bu~ in both instances, special three-judge Federal D1stnct Courts had struck down the laws, terming them transparent efforts to circumvent the Supreme Court's 1969 decision. 

Today the Supreme Court acted unanimously and without a hearing to summarily affirm the rulings of both lower courts. There was no opinoin, since the justices simply issued an unsigned order in each case saying "The judgment is affirmed." 
Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller's recommendation last spring for enactment of a new one-year residency law was based upon a remark in the Supreme Court's opinion in the 1969 decision Shapiro V. Thompson, that such a restriction on fr~ interstate travel could not be justified unless it was required by a "compelling governmental interest." New York's old one-year residency requirement had been struck down by a lower court, shortly after the Shapiro decision was announced. 
The American Civil Liberties Union, which filed the suit that overturned the law, said in an opposing brief that only about 11,000 new people who had been in New York less than a year were added to the welfare rolls in 1970, or less than 1 percent of all who received welfare benefits in the state. 
All three of the justices who dissented form the 6­to-3 ruling in 1969 have since left the supreme Court. They were Chief Justice Earl Warren and Justices Hugo L. Black and John M. Harlan. 

Chief Justice Warren E. Burger had indicated in an opinion two years ago that he did not agree with the 1969 Shapiro decision, but today he joined the majority as the court indicated, as it has on several occasions in the recent past, that it will not be quick to reconsider liberal doctirnes that were established before the Supreme ourt acquired its present conservative cast. 
Student Bar Association President Tim Hartzer of the school's enrollment. He refused to relase the announced yesterday that the SBA will retake the results of this first vote.
SBA student referendum on the proposed law school If the turnout for tomorrow's election does not addition, originally scheduled for Friday and significantly increase, the· SBA president has no
to retake rescheduled for yesterday, this morning between 
plans to hold another referedum. Remarked 9am-3pm. According to Hartzer, the move was Hartzer, "If they haven't voted by then, then they
referendum made because Monday's turnout was "inadequate." don't care." Hartzer said that 250 students out of the law 
Dean Shaffer of the law school declined to com­by Mike Baum school's enrollment of approximately 450 voted. ment on the move, saying that he'd rather wait for 
The figure represents slightly more than 55 percent the final results. 
Page 2 THE OBSERVER Tuesday, January 25, 1972 
Include Laos and Cambodia in Paris talks: Mansfield 

(t·) 1!17:! Washington Star 
Washington. Jan. 24--Senate Majority leader Mike Mansfield said today that the Paris Peace Talks should be expanded to include the opposing forces in I .aos and Cambodia, and should lw relocated in or near Indochina. 
In a speech prepared for ciPlivery in the Senate, Mansfield suggested that Prince Norodom Sihanouk be returned to power in Cambodia in the place of the Lon No! Government which over­threw Sihanouk two years ago. In Laos. he suggested, the "com­promised" leadership of Prince Souvanna Phouma be replaced by a new government under the King. Sri Savang Vatthana. 
Mansfield said there had been no serious negotiations in Paris cturing the three years of the talks thPre, and that it now appeared impossible to work out a set­llemmt of the war in Vietnam without Pxpanding the talks to include the neighboring countries in Indochina. 
"What once was one war, winding down, has now become thrt>e wars sealed into one," 1\lansfield said. "That was the inevitable consequence of the invasion of Cambodia in 1970 and th(• military adventure into Laos in 1971." 
Mansfield said the government of Souvanna Phouma in Laos was created as a result of the second (;Pneva settlement in 1962 when the Prince held the confidence of various Laotian political fac­tions. 
"For a decade the Prince tried to shape a single government of national unity," Mansfield said. "His efforts have been astute and dt>dicated but they have also been in doubt from the very beginning. 
"In the past few years they have broken down completely and the second Geneva accord has come to be ignored on all sides." 
While North Vietnam has supported the Pathet Lao, he said, the United States has supplied "hundreds of millions of dollars of military and other aid" to Souvanna Phouma 's govern­mPnt and "I regret to say it, but it seems to me that our help has been so overwhelming that we may well have compromised Prince Souvanna Phouma 's neutral status beyond any ex­pecta tion of recovery." 
Mansfield said the King, who 
resides in the Royal Capital at 
I .uang Prabang while Souvanna 
!'houma is in the functional 
capital at Vientiane, "may 
command sufficient trust and 
rt>spt>ct among the Laotian 
political .factions which, when 
combined with the Quasi­
rt>ligious loyalty of his people, 
may permit him to speak for the 
Pntire country with a measure of 
authority." 
Mansfield's assessment of 
Cambodia was even more 
pt>ssimistic. "The blunt truth is 
that the present government in 
Pnompt>nh is hapless, helpless 
and hopt>less," lw said. 
"Only the resources of the 
lfnitt>d States stand directly and 
indirt>ctly between the continued 
survival or the sudden demise of 
that government." 
II(' addt>d that "lhe sooner we 
rt>move ourselves from this 
situation the better for all con­
l'Prnt>d." 
Mansfield credited Sihanouk 
with kt>eping Cambodia out of the 
Indochina war for 15 years. "In 
rt>trospect." he said, "the 
overthrow of Sihanouk has 
prown more than regrettable; it 
has !wen a tragedy for the Khmer 
pt>oplt> and it has served this 
nation's interests not at all." 
Sihanouk is living in Peking as a guest of the Chinese. 
NO prof invited 
The director of the industrial relations section of the Univer­sity of Notre Dame economics department, Rev. Mark J. Fit­zgerald. C.S.C., has been invited by President Richard M. Nixon to participate in a White House Conference, "The Industrial World Ahead," on February 7-9. 
The first of its kind the con­ference will bring together national leaders in various fields related to the private enterprise system for an in-depth look at the t>conomic future. 
A member of the University faculty more than 30 years Father Fitzgerald will par­ticipate in discussions on social responsibility and the human side of business as they will develop during the next twenty years. 
Spring Semester 

It sure would be great to have all the time you need for all the things you like to do. 
STU DENT SPECIAL 

And if your reading work load is keeping you from some of the finer things, here's an important suggestion. Evelyn Wood Reading Dynamics will show you how to read 3 to 10 times fester with equal or better comprehension. Once you've mastered Evelyn 

15" Color TV 
Wood's method, your reading and studying time will be drastically reduced. You'll know some important secrets of test-taking and be able to keep up better with your 
2.1 Cubic Ft. 

studivs-as wall as those social activities you're missing now. Time-that's what it's all 
Refrigerator

about. Do something about It now. 
Both for only $29.95 -month 

ATTEND A FREE SPEED READING LESSON 
less than $1 .00 a day 

INCREA<;E YOUR READING SPEED 19"Biack & White TV50 TO 100% ON THE SPOT 2.1 Cubic Ft. Refrig Both for 
TODAY 6, AND 8 P.M. 
only $19.95 -month less than$.66 a day TOMORROW 4, 6, AND 8 P.M. 
Rented Separately

AT THE CENTER FOR 

CONTINUING EDUCATION 
15" Color TV $24.50 -month 

NOTRE DAME A VENUE 
19" Black &White TV $14.50 -month 

ACROSS FROM THE MORRIS INN 
2. 1 Cubic Ft. Refrig $7.50 -month 
Only Monthly Rentals

EVELYN WOOD READING DYNAMICS 10% Discount For Full Semester Payment 
2022 South Bend Ave. 272-5483 


Tuesday, January 25, 1972 THE OBSERVER Page 3 


vvorld 

briefs 

(c) 1972 New York Times 
Da('ca, Pakistan--Bangladesh was recognized Monday by the Soviet Union in a move announced simultaneously in Moscow and Dacca. The recognition was the first by a great power to the new nation proclaimed by Bengali separatists in East Pakistan. The only other nations to recognize Bangladesh have been from the Indian sub­continent or Eastern Europe. 
Karachi, Pakistan--President Zulfikar Ali Bhutto reversed his stand against Pakistan's financial elite and appealed for the help of businessmen in rebuilding the war-shattered economy. He also an­nounced that no new categories of industry would be nationalized and released from detention three industrialists charged with holding foreign exchange outside the country illegally. 
Washington--The Nixon administration was accused by Ralph Nader, the consumer advocate, in a lawsuit filed in Wahsington, of illegally raising the federal price support for milk in return of $322,500 in campaign contributions from the dairy industry. The White House declined to comment on the matter since it was before the courts. 
Washington--A proposal to give strong enforcement powers to the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission was delayed in the Senate when administration opponents, who had prevailed in early votes on the measure, saw their strength dissipate when Senators Hubert H. Humphrey and Henry M. Jackson left the floor to go campaigning for presidency. 
on campus today 
7:00--meeting, inpirg, fiesta lounge, Iafortune 
7: 00--construction, mardi gras '72, stepan center 
~. uO, 9: 30--film, boccacio '70, engineering auditorium 
8: 00--lecture, daniel callahan, library auditorium 

nd-smc 

PAN AMERICAN WORlD AIRWAYS


Record budget deficit seen 
is pleased to announce 

(continued from page 1) 
employee retirement programs 
The bulge in unemploymen: compensation payments, to ar estimated $7.2 billion in thf current year, partly because ol new legislation, was a major reason for the serious un­derestimate of total spending in fiscal 1072. The total is now put at 
236.6 billion, compared to the (•stimate of $229.3 billion a year ago and a revised estimate of $232 billion in early September. 
r 
If lhP spending estimate for the new fiscal year proves correct-­which is doubtful--the rate of increase in spending will, as the President daims, slow sharply. Outlays rose $15 billion in fiscal 
1971 and an estimated $25 billion
! 
in fiscal 1972 and this would drop 
to an incrPase of just under $10 
billion in fiscal 1973. 
But looked at in another way, thP jump of $25 billion in spending in the eurrent fiscal year was the largest for a year in the entire postwar period--larger even than the biggest increase, in fiscal 1967, during the period of the Vietnam War buildup. The 1967 increase of 24 billion was larger in percentage terms, however. 
During his election campaign four years ago, the President persistently criticized the large budget deficits of the Johnson Administration as inflationary, although he said he did not support "a mechanically balanced budget." He justifies his own large deficits on the ground that the economy is now sluggish rather than booming as it was in the late nineteen sixties and can safely use stimulous from the federal budget. 
Although the over-all rise in the new budget was relatively small, it contains literally dozens of increases in individual programs, ranging from foster grandparents to rural housing. 
The budget appears to contain 
New SMC ministry head 
! A new Director of St. Mary's 
I 
CoiiPge Campus Ministry, Sr. Katherine Reichert. has been appointed to take the position temporarily filled by Father Hoger Cormier. 
Sr. Katherine graduated from St. Mary's', taught theology here for three years. and worked on the Upward Hound program for three summers. For the past two :Vl'ars, Sister has taught theology and served as a freshman advisor at I>unbartom College. 
Sr _ Katherine is "committed to the concept of Campus Ministry because on the modern day (arnpus, specialization has caused the neglect of religious nPeds." 

Mary's, she hopes that the Campus Ministry will be able to supplement the theology in the rlassroom situation. Sister is presently team teaching a theology course at Notre Dame. 
INPIRG LIVES! 
Once Established, We Will Organize Projects In The Following Areas: 
Consumer Affairs Corporate Irresponsibility Health Care Ecology 
Race and Sex Discrimination Occupational Health And Safety 
But We Need People To Petition. 
Come To INPIRG Open Meeting Tues. 7 pm In Fiesta lounge. 
the appointment of 
KEN KERN

very few "gimmicks" designed as your campus representative
..

to hold down the spending total call on him for all your travelartificially. One such item is a needs -anywhere. He cansaving of about $200 million by tell you about special low ratesshifting some farmers home that are available only to you
administration programs from direct to guaranteed loans. 

R INFORMATION & RESERVATIONS CONTACT 
Hob Atkinson Chuck Hamilton Jordan Motors, Inc. Joe Hayden, Inc. (;09 East Jefferson Blvd. 1102 South 11th Street Mishawaka, Indiana 46554 Niles, Michigan 49120 Bill Kelley Horny Hammes Fordland 244 South Olive South Rend, Indiana 46621 (219) 289-4041 



RENT·A·CAR 
For students and faculty 21 and over. 

Tuesday, January 25, 1972
THE OBSERVER 

THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Editor-in-Chief. Glen S. Corso Assistant EditorAssistant Editor 
All successful newspapers are John Abowd
T.C. Treanor 
ceaselessly querulous and bellicose. They never defend 
Advt't·tising Manager 
Business Manager anyone or anything if they can help it; if the job is forced upon them, Bill Bauerle
Jim Jendryk 
they tackle it by denouncing someone or something else. 
H.L. Mencken 
B usines,S: 283-7 4 71 News: 283-1715 
Hall Life Board-Futility revisited 
Notre Dame witnessed another administrative abortion Monday---the an­nouncement by Rev. Thomas E. Blantz, of the appointment of members to the Hall Life Board. Of all the various committees and commissions that deface Notre Dame's landscape, this is one of the more grotesque. The Hall Life Committee was set up by the Student Life Council to oversee the halls. In the spring of 1970 the Trustees made the Board a separate entity and charged it with the responsibility of "reviewing hall constitutions and parietal regulations and insuring both conformed to standards set down by the board." 
Its achievements rank among those of other outstanding committees in the nations past, like the emergency cow manure production committee, set up during the last great conflict. 
What its achievements will be in the future could be a source of amusing speculation, if one was so inclined. 
This University doesn't need another committee to investigate and pass along suggestions and recommendations about improving hall life to "the proper authorities." This University doesn't need another committee composed of people that either have too little time, or experience to solve the problems they are called upon to investigate. 
The Trustees made a pledge last fall to the Student Government to improve conditions in the halls and the student center. Nothing has been done to fulfill this pledge. Nothing has been done to fulfill this pledge because of administrative inertia. A few bare beginnings have been made, a few bare beginnings esconsed in a lot of rhetoric. 
The Hall Life Board, according to available information, is not mandated to carry out this pledge. Even if it was, it probably couldn't. Such a body would need members with lots of time, some money and a good dose of expertise. The Hall Life Board lacks all three. 
It isn't easy to get the Trustees to make a pledge to do anything, much less promise sweeping changes in student life at this university. The present student government managed the difficult task of extracting that pledge. So far they have failed to obtain a commitmentfrom the administration to carry it out. 
Lack of funds may delay immediate implementation of physical im­
provements on a broad scale. The Trustees though, the same trustees whose job 
it is to scrutinize our financial affairs decided last fall there was enough money to 
begin. 

There is no cogent reason why that beginning hasn't been made, no reason at 
all, save the fact that the people responsible for that beginning have been un­
willing to do it. 

The best thing the Hall Life Board could do is to meet, dissolve itself and call 
for the creation of a body empowered to begin reconstructing the halls and the 
student center. 

That is the best thing the Hall Life Board could do and the only thing it could 
hope to do well. 

Nite Editor: Jim McDermott  
Ass't Nite Editor: Art Esposito  
711B OBSERIIDt  Layout and headliners: Dan Ryan, Joe Abell, Don Biancamano Sporters: James Donaldson and Stan the Man  
Features: Marty Miller  
Selfless help: John Brady, Ann Conway  
Helpless Selves:  Ed Ellis, JODI, Redman, GSC, John Abowd, Jack  
Vol. VI, No. 63  Fishcorn, Jack Kelly, Tom Ehbar (believe it or not), Michael  
Tuesday, January 25, 1972  Baum, tc treanor Hal's Feeders: Joe Wilkowski, rick smith, Mark Lammert  
hey dunn, where's my quarter?  
does the cook write, ann?  


Steve Lazar '11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Captain Hook 


at Breakdown 

11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Ah, my friend, you do not know, you do not know What life is, you who hold it in your hands -T. S. Eliot 
Hook seized me as I was walking off the wharf. I cried out, but who would be near to help me on such a night, so foggy and dark? Even what small light there was, burning in the dim street lamps, was itself diffusing into the heavy mist. He overpowered me easily with his strong arms and thick body, and I could tell from the sureness of his stride that he was resolute on dragging me off. He pulled me down over a restraining wall (whether it restrained the land from crumbling into the river or the river from wandering over the land, I do not know) to a place below the wharf where he had a sort of cabin. He kicked open the door and hurled me inside. The place was mostly dark except for where the lamp glowed on the table. The furnishings were rough and the entire room smelled of waterlogged and rotten wood. Hook shut the door behind him, locked and bolted it, then took his coat off. I was more astonished by my plight than afraid, and I soon lost all thought harm would befall me when he served me bisquits and tea. Make sure you eat salt on your bread, he told me as he drew up a chair. 
He said nothing for a good while after that; the gleaming eyes in his massive dark head were cast down at the table, his arms folded in front of him. It was then for the first time that I noticed his hook. His arm, emerging from his sleeve, was covered at the stump with thick leather, fastened to a wooden core by brass studs. From the end of this grew the hook. In the dim light I could not tell of what metal it was made, but I don't think it was of a kind I had ever seen before. So smooth, it did not look like a battle claw, I thought. After a time Hook straightened his back and seemed about to speak. I've had enough of my own villainy, he said, and I want to put that aside now. I mean you · no harm; I just want to talk to somebody. It's because of my reputation for evil and the unpleasant mein of my hook that people avoid me and I cant bear it no more because ... inside I'm . . . I haven't always had this hook you see-I once had a hand. There's my 
boyhood and young manly times you've got to remember. And so I'd like you to think back with me now, back to when my hand was with me. In fact, if you will, I'd like you to pretend its my hand himself who speaks, because (here Hook began to speak in a new voice) it's the secret places have discovered, the waxy folds of an ear or the final suction of the gums as I pulled a tooth out. I remember -yes, I can really remember now! -rooting up carrots, poking a seed with one finger into the warm earth. It was so queer, the tiny weight of that sparrow and his nervous feet. Oh, I was clenched and angry, squeezing myself into a fist. Even now I can feel his lip splitting. I remember touching the hand of a blind man, and envying it, for it could see. Or pulling nightcrawlers from their holes. Or in the barn up the cow's vagina, pulling her calf out. Then the bee stinging and the mad puffing of the flesh afterwards. I remember when the other arm went numb from pain; I felt with awe over its broken places, its mangled bones. It lay there like a thing hurt, like a fawn crushed under a flurry of hoofs. It was the arm of a dead man, I thought. And so I took the bread and broke it, raised the cup. All hands on deck, they said,all hands on deck. Lord, how that cannon was hot! And how cleanly I made off with that woman's necklace, and give us this day our daily bread from thy bounty through Christ through -Christ! right through the bone and the blood pouring out and the pain and God, I'm strangling! 'All hands on deck! All hands on deck! they said. To arms! To arms! All hands on deck and hold infinity in the palm of your ... Lord I'm losing my grip, I'm going to fall! I'm going to fall! hook lurched out over the table at me but I sprang to the door. He grasped the empty air and then collapsed across the table. He lay motionless for many minutes, nor did I move, watching him. Finally he turned his head to me and said, It's your life now! You have the hook! I closed the door, and fled. 
Tuesday, January 25, 1972 
THE OBSERVER Page 5 
T.C. Treanor , 


Boccacio 70-two outta three ain't bad 
For $1.00 tomorrow you can see a one­line joke go on for forty-five minutes; Sophia Loren and Romy Schneider in their underwear; and three fairly reputable directors add nothing to their reputations. The occasion is the Cultural Arts Com­mission's presentation of Roccacio '70, an Italian film creation. Roccacio '70 was the brainchild of Carlo Ponti, who is married to Sophia Loren. He should have quit while he was ahead. 
The Temptations of Dr. Antonio is the most ambitious of the three films, and as such the biggest flop. Federico Fellini directed and co-wrote the screenplay with his customary sledgehammer symbolism. It was Fellini's first color effort-the film was done in 1961, as were the other two ­and in use of color was perhaps the only category in which he applied restraint. The thing was in short, gaudy: overripe, overplayed, overdone. 
I say the film was a flop; but I mean that the film is a flop as entertainment; of Dr. Antonio as art I have no opinion. It does not create a sustained impression; to does not mold or define the intangible; it creates no permanent sympathetic bonds; hut none of that is really art; in fact, who knows what art really is? Some critics thumped the tub for Fellini because of this film; and some critics panned him for it; so it is with most things. 
As entertainment, The temptation of Dr. Antonio is a one-line joke blown up a thousand times by cinema's magic lamp. P£>ppino de Fillippo plays the joke; Dr. Antonio Mazzulla, a dour, moralistic physician with a compulsion to catch people in acts of carnality. He is generally successful, to nobody's severe disac­eomodation hut his own. While addressing a troop of boy scouts (on purity, of course) <"onstruction crews roll by him on their way to the center of the park, where they Prect a large billboard with Anita Ekberg 
Joseph Abell 
on it. Anita is wearing a slinky dress and holding a glass of milk and smiling like Mae West under anaesthesia. In the background, a loudspeaker sings the Italian equivalent to Drink More Milk. 
At this point the film begins to get arty ­that is to say, disconnected and dull. Mazzulla sees the commissioner of public morals, and the commissioner clucks sympathetically a couple of times before throwing him out. He sees the Bishop; walks through the church during a funeral to rope up a few inspecting secretaries; rides with the secretaries in funeral silence to the spot of the alleged eyesore; and listens helplessly as one of the secretaries grimly pronounce, "We've already seen this picture." 
The important thing about the film to this point it its element of noise -whenever Dr. Antonio makes noise, nobody listens. People honk their horns while he's speaking or talk over him or ignore him or agree without understanding. Nothing new here. 
At this point his rage boils over into action. He hurls inkbottles at the huge billboard, until the cops come and haul him away. Later that afternoon, they cover the billboard with paper. 
Later in the evening, Dr. Antonio en­sconced safely in his home; a storm rumbling outside; the family is gathered to celebrate his triumph. Stammering and protesting, Antonio agrees to play the piano and sing a little. But as he begins, he is suddenly beset by a vision: Anita Eck­berg leering at him from the now-covered billboard. 
As the storm continues; the rain and the wind conspire to tear down the restraining paper. Antonio goes to bed, but the stor­m's noise wakes him up. Hesitantly; almost against his will, he walks to the window and looks out towards the billboard. There, to his horror, he sees Anita, making faces at him. 

Then the fun begins. He tears down to the park, runs up to the billboard, and begs Anita to leave the city. She climbs off the billboard and begins to taunt Antonio. He begs and pleads; does the If-1-could-only­help-set-your-morals-straight routine, and finally confesses everlasting love. So it goes. 
Anita Eckberg crawls down from the billboard but she acts like she's still up there. Peppino de Fillipo isn't much better, and whoever dubs his voice does it with a strained agony which sounds halfway between anger and constipation. 
In truth, though, it would be difficult for any actor to deliver lines like "If she en­ters the city two million souls will be drivel from the archangel Cupid. This may be art, but it isn't much fun. 
The .Job is a variation of an old 
Maupassant theme; a wealthy playboy 
<Thomas Milan l pays 700,000 lire for some 
call girls; thereby causing a scandle and 
discommoding his wife <Romy Schneider). 
Romy <not to be confused with Romy Hammes l then says that she's bet her father a hundred million lire that she can support herself apart from her husband. After much dressing and undressing, she agrees to go to bed with Milan for 400,000 lire-the call girl's fee minus the madam's fee. In the last scene she lies tearfully on her bed, awaiting Milan's plastic passion as he hungrily writes out his check. 
The story's pretty impressive until one stops to reflect that it takes 700 lire to make one U.S. dollar. Luchino Visconti is responsible. 
In The Raffle a bunch of dirty old men raffle off Sophia Loren's body with her unhappy consent. The raffle raised 210,000 lire, and a sexton wins. There's some good earthy humor in the ensuing action; but to spare the suspense, Sophia pays off all 210,000 and the sexton walks home with a kiss on the side of his face. In its limited way, The Raffle is the best of the three. It's funny -intentionally -and its un­pretentious. But it drags and fails to en­tertain during the first half <I here discount the part where Sophia Loren takes off her shirt.) Vittorio de Sica is the director. 
Roccacio '711 has been called an art film; and students may glean tiny app­

damned!" <Fillipo's line)"l don't want to · predations from Fellini 's clown-and­die -put me down" <Fillipo's line) "I am cardinal shots orfrom little camera tricks. the devil come to take you away (" (Eck-But it lacks the synthesis of form and berg's line l and "The moment has come matter and the direction that a good film and you will never forget what you are' ought to have. The directors exploit a bout to see." (Anita again l "I will never bodies, not skills; and in general fails to permit this to happen." <Fillipo) &c. make the fantastic familiar or the There is an unsurprise ending, and some familiar sympathetic. ' 


Football tix? Got a spare 60 hours? 
So you think Notre Dame is the ultimate in training grounds for future jocks, huh? WPll. y'all ain't sPen nothing 'til you've
{ seen Dallas ticket offices before a Cowboy game. No matter who the opponent, Cowboy fans in Dallas start marathon lines to get tickets for it, somethimes even if there is little chance to see the game. Only the hopt> of seeing the Cowboys play keeps them going. Tak!' the recent Super-Bowl game, for instance. I<'or the second year in a row, the Cowboys have a shot at the Championship. And their Dallas fans knew it--so much so that the first in line with ticket options was in front of the window ten minutes bt>fore the Pnd of th!' NFC Conference cham­pionship game was over. So began the saga of the ticket-wait in Dallas. A friend of mine, Kevin Kite-Powell, was one of th!' hundreds who waited in that infamous line. He was gracious enough to tell me his story and adventures, and here I pass them on to y'all: The scene: Expressway Towers, home of the Dallas Cowboys <and numerous other "respectable" businesses). The w£'a ther: the worst in recent Dallas history. (Yes, Dallas dot's have snowstorms and freezing weather). The temperature was a South Bend high of -5 degrees. and the streets had been graced with a nice, two-inch layer of ice. A heautiful day for standing in line! The spirit: high excitement and enthusiasm for the Cowboys. 
R: oo on Tuesday morning, and the ticket office did not open until Wednesday at 7. lie arrived, complete with nothing except a transistor radio and a few growing ap­prehPnsions. He "signed in" somewhat similarly to an SMC freshman at 12:00 and received his number as 179 in the line. 
The first order of business after signing in was to find a suitable place to spend the next 23 hours. Line-waiters were allowed to stay in the tower lobby. He headed for the area near the front door. 
That idea was changed the first time the door opened. 

Many were set up as completely as IS­year-old Rick Doucet here, and others, like author's frit>nd Kevin Kite-Powell, had very few conveniences. Blur in upper left­hand corner is Kevin. 
Photo by George Ctark courtesy The Dallas Times-Herald 

At that time, the wind invaded the lobby at about 30 miles per hour. Immediate choruses of "Close the door! Close the door!" rang out, but by then the tem­perature inside had dropped to around 20 degrees, which was a bit too frosty for KPv, "so I ditched that for a warmer corner." He found one and crawled into it and listened to the tinny sounds of a local popular radio station. 
After about half-an-hour, a small, vaguely rotund man with a hint of a moustache approached him. 
"Want some company?" he asked. 
Kev shrugged. "Why not?" 
"Name's Jerrol," he told Kev. 
A long conversation began, during which 
Kev learned the tickings of a. "gung-ho, 
banzai Cowboy fan." His mother had 
apparently given him ticket options for 
Christmas, and he was in line early to see 
that he got the tickets. 
H£> was one of the people who comprised 
about 50 per cent of the crowd--people who 
would actually use the tickets they were 
waiting for. High hopes for a Cowboy win 
abounded among them as Pthnic, racial, 
and other differences disappeared in 
convt>rsations about their team. 
The other 50 per cent was made up of 
paid mPrcenaries, of which Kevin was a 
member. These were mostly college 
students with little else to do in the 
Christmas vacation, and had agreed to sit 
in line for various business blocks of ticket 
options. Their fees ran anywhere from 
nothing to $100. "One guy got some kind of 
agreement to get $5.00 for every ticket he 
eventually bought. He wound up buying 
over 80 tickets, getting some $400," Kev 
said. He himself had agreed to do the job 
for $50. 

"That was before knew what 
everybody else was getting." 
Noon was rolling around by this time, and so were the gastric juices in Kev's stomach. Arrangements for lunch had fallen through and salvation managed to arrive in the form of myself. 
Having seen news reports of the line at Expressway Towers, I had braved the slick streets (salt on the streets? in Oallas? when it gets cold how often?) to see if it was really true. Under my arm, a sleeping bag, the result of a telephone call making various requests. 
"This place is a real zoo!" was the only thing I could greet Kev with. By this time, about 300 people were standing around. A couple of Frisbees sailed past my hPad as their owners, two-and three-year-olds, went tearing through my legs. An over­weight woman asleep on a couch woke up and leered at me as a small girl crawled up on the couch after her paper plane. Music and the soapy sounds of "Days of Our Lives" bombarded me from all sides. Kevin laughed. 
Suddenly. a shrill voice made itself heard above the din. "Roll call! Roll call!" and like a flock of Notre Dame frosh before their first mixer, the crowd gathered around the voice. "This is the part that's the most fun." Kev explained. It seemed that a roll call was made at odd intervals to make sure nobody sil(ns up and leaves. 
Thm proceeded 30 mmutes of name­calling. "Everybody always gets real hyper about roll call," Kev said, after the man had pronounced only half of his name. "The first time, guys were calling wolf­y'know, fake roll calls--and gettin' everybody hacked off. The second time, it didn't work." 
By this time, equipment was at its peak in the Towers lobby. People waiting in line had brought any and everything in the line of distractions. Most had only a blanket and a radio, but one man had an entire stereo, complete with turntable and speakers, a card table and chairs, two lawn chairs, a portable radio, cards, and a television set. His area resembled a discount store. Most people were playing cards or monopoly. 
By 5:30 that night, nearly 800 people had been registered and placed in the parking garage. By this time, also, a system had been worked out to give everyone a specific place to sleep. "This was the ultimate in sheepherding," Kev com­mPnted. "We were all shuffled around and put in a place, y'know number so and so­Joe Blow--here, Ralph Whatsyername, here, and so on." Until 10:00. 
He finally lay down for the night at about 
II ::m, and was "fairly comfortable," if a bit cramped. 
At 5:30, the waiting was nearly over as a woman woke him up by packing her Pquipment up. Everyone was allowed to put his stuff in his car in anticipation of the final wait, to be made standing in an actual line. Lacking a car, Kev was forced to hold £>verything while waiting. He struggled through the door juggling sleeping bag and radio as his name was checked off for the last time. He joined the final line as his stomach was waking up. The line-­reaching a final total of over 1000-wound from the office through the lobby and back into the parking garge. At 7:15, a bedraggled Kevin turned over 14 options and $140 to the friend he was waiting for; and thankfully went home. 
Would he do it again? "Not for fifty bucks." Well. I guess there are jocks and not so 
.iocks. 
Tuesday, January 25, 1972

Page 6 -----THE___QBSERVER -­

Editor: 

When in a community obvious discrepancies arise between the ideals hoped for and the ac­tualities practiced, we firmly feel it not only our right, but our obligation to conscientiously oppose them by voicing our concern. 
There has been a breach of trust. The women of St. Mary's, specifically the freshmen, had been led to believe through of­ficial college publications that "because of the recent unification of St. Mary's College and the University of Notre Dame, freshmen entering SMC in the Fall semester of 1971 will have available to them all the bachelor degree programs of the University of Notre Dame." That promise has been broken. The merger has been called off. Many of the members of our community are suffering due to that about-face decision; time, money, effort, and credit hours have been lost. The students might be willing to accept this decision if they could be assured that it had been made for the common good of the community. Unfortunately, the Trustees' lack of an explanation causes doubt as to whether this decision is in fact for the common good. 
This silence is especially apalling in a so-called Christian community. As Fr. Burtchaell so aptly illustrated: "The first and most serious deficiency in our religious situation is a is a certain persistent disregard for the common good ... a society of trust needs members who will not only contribute their personal in­tegrity, but will take respon­sibility to oppose publicly those who exploit the common good." In Fr. Burtchaell's own words, then, we would ask '~How Christian is our community?" 
It appears to us that in the midst of the Trustees' silence and the apathy of most Notre Dame students, the only people upholding their Christian responsibility are the women of St. Mary's. By organized and selfless actions they have illustrated their concern for and rejection of the discrepancies brought about by this decision. We hope that their actions will lead all members of our com­munity to strive more toward the realization of the Ideal as the Actuality. 

simply not available to pass judgment on the individuals and personalities involved. Thus your recent attacks on Sister Alma have been most unfortunate. Your editorial remarks seemed needlessly cruel, unsupported, and I beliPve irresponsible, blaming Sister for present dif­ficulties without evidence, and ignoring her many positive ac­complishments during this dif­ficult period since the death of Monsignor McGrath. Sister Alma and the whole Notre Dame-St. Mary's community deserve much better of you. 
( Hev. l Thomas E. Blantz, C.S.C. Vice President for Student Af­fairs 
Editor: 
The December 1st edition of The Observer pointed out especially well a major problem of the paper, the quality of the typing. Whoever sets the type for The Observer is becoming more and more careless as the weeks progress. Wednesday's edition contained a number of important articles on the collapse of the merger and the statements issued by Father Hesburgh and Sister Alma in connection with this. However, in reading the articles one soon became frustrated by the number of typographical errors, resulting from carelessness. Also closely related to this is the problem of omitting occasional words. In two separate places in this same issue, the same statement by Sister Alma was quoted. First, at the beginning of an editorial on page four was: "I wonder if it would not be a good thing for the majority of freshmen not to return (to St. Mary's)." Then in the first column on page three the same quote was used, but there it 
Law School Interviews 
Univ. Of Akron 
Sign-ups ­
Outside l 01 O'Shag 
ND Pre-law 
Society 


This letter was signed by 14 members of General Humanities 182, ITT3, 160260-ED. 
Editor: 
The unification discussions between St. Mary's and Notre Dame, like other important and difficult negotiations remain necessarily confidential. One result of this silence and con­fidentiality is that evidence is 

TONIGHT ND -SMC Karate Club Will Give A KARATE DEMONSTRATION 
At St. Mary's Little Theatre 
7 pm 


Hey! Do ·You Know That You Don't Have To Be 21 To Play Pool At 





FRANKIE'S? 
Everyday Specials  
-Ocean Perch  $1,.25  
-10 oz. Rib-Eye Steak  $1.50  
1 -/2 Broasted  Chicken  $1.50  
Includes Tureen Soup, Salad,  

Bread, Butter And Coffee 
read: "I wonder if it would not be a good thing for the majority of freshmen to return." From the comments that foiled in this article by De Ellis, it was obvious that one important word, NOT, was omitted in the second quote. It is important to realize that errors of this nature can drastically change the meaning of a story. Thus, I would urge Thr Obsrrver to encourage care and accuracy in the preparation of each edition for the press. This would greatly improve the quality of the paper and strengthen its reputation. 
Sincerely, Terri McBirney graduate student dept. of chemistry 
Editor: 
1 find it necessary to respond to your editorial of January 21, 1972, entitled "The Ideal Plan." A few facts are needed to avoid an uncalled for slur upon the quality of education at the Law School. First, regarding the faculty, there can be no doubt that these are men of outstanding scholarship and ability. A clear indicia of this is the fact that the published works of these men are known and utilized by the members of the legal profession. Textbooks and casebooks authored by members of thP faculty are in use in many other Law Schools throughout the nation. Another indicia is the number of graduates passing various State Bar exams last vear. In New York, where passage is not routine, all can· didates from the Law School passed. 
Next. regarding the student body, a few facts clearly show the level of quality. This years First Year Class entered the Law School with a mean LSAT score of 620 and cumulative college average of 3.3. Next years en­tering class will enter with a mean LSAT score of 645 and a cumulative college average of :l.4. These figures evidence a student body which is well qualified. The fact is that the Law School is already well stocked with('xcellentstudentsandawell
qualified faculty. The new Plement necessary for the development of a high quality Law School. 
Hichard A. Kelly :lrd year student 
ND Law School 
...................., 
The preceding letters are only a sampling of those received on the two editorials. The rest will be printed in later editions.--ed' 
~; 

10 %OFF 
On any ·mechanical work and winterizing 
For Students and University Personnel 
Roseland Gulf 402 l.l.S. 31 North Arross 
K' 
building addition will add the last l-_f_r_o_m___B_u_r.:::g~e_r__ 1_n_g_, 

Mardi Gras '72 Notre Dame Charities 
--------------------------------------------------------------~ 
ruesday, January 25, 1972 THE OBSERVER Page 7 
Marquette downs scrappy Irish 


Warriors roll to fzfteenth straight; ND falls to 3-9 

on a hook shot to put ND back out McGuire looks on. Novak scored 25 points as Notre Dame suffered a 71-62 setback last night at the Convo. <'Xpecting too much out of them in front . hut .Jim Chones coun­lat<'ly."
player of the game. Novak hoards." Novak replied, "Yes, we were a
tPr<'d with a hook shot of his own. 

commented afterwards on little tired, but I thought the press The "soft sell" approach wasAllie McGuire then scored for Lackey. "He didn't shoot as When asked if Notre Dame was was worth it. We trapped and <'Vident when he compared hisMarquette and the Warriors led much as I thought he would, but tiring at the close of the first half frustrated them with it pretty t!'am to UCLA. "Well, since weth<' r!'st of the gam<'. 
he was very physical around the h!'cause of their pressing tactics, w<'ll." only heat you guys <Notre Darnel Surprisingly !'nough the Notre by nine, I guess this means that llam<' front line outscored the UCLA's about 48 points better mueh taller Warriors, 57-54. than us."
NCAA hockey set for Boston Garden 
"Goose" Novak had 25 points and II rebounds in a great individual The 25th National Collegiate title event in 1973 and 1974. Minnesota, mired in the WCHA Novak tops ND
cellar, appears to have no hope of 
pPrformance against Chones. Ice Hockey Championship will be Boston University, currently making a return appearance in
Add to this the fact that Novak held in Boston Garden, March 16-third in the ECAC Division I scorers
standings behind Cornell and the NCAA tourney but Denver,guarded Bob Lackey and held 18 this year, according to the Harvard, will be seeking to led by standout soph center Vic Soph forward Gary Novakhim to 12 points and there is NCAA. 
defend their national cham­Vena sky, an All-American and leads the Irish basketball team inn•ason to believe he was the Boston will also host the NCAA pionship which they won last year the top scorer in the WCHA as a scoring this season with 234 by defeating Minnesota, 4-2, at freshman, is near the top of the points in 12 games, a 19.5 point

Wrestlers split in Iowa 

the War Memorial Auditorium in WCHA standings and has a good per game average. Syracuse, N.Y. shot to repeat their "final four" Tom O'Mara, another soph, is Denver and Harvard were the showing of a year ago, as does runner-up to Novak, averaging
Aft<'r defeating Knox College University by a score of 27-9 

other finalists in the 1972 tourney. The Crimson. just over 13 ppg.
:!5-5 for its sixth consecutive Saturday in Des Moines. victory, the Irish wrestling team Freshman heavyweight suffer<'d its first defeat of the standout Mike Fanning brought 



Frosh stop Warrior win streak 
s!'ason at the hands of Drake his winning streak to ten, with pins in both meets. 

by Stan Urankar The second half was more of grabbing six rebounds andSwim team Winners for the Irish against the same. Marquette threw an dishing out seven assists.
The Marquette winning streak
Knox were Mike Martin, Steve ineffective sagging zone press
came to an end Monday night. The ever-reliable Bruno hit on
Moylan, Curt Bramble, Rich against the Irish, but Crotty and
The Marquette freshmen winning seven of eleven attempts from
posts win 

(;illoon. Bill Moran, Rich Komar, Bruno continued to break through
streak, that is. The Little the field and finished with 18
AI l{ocek, and Fanning. Rick for easy buckets. Johnson fouled
L<'d by Larry LaFratta's Warriors, sporting a 7-0 mark on points, while Clay added 17 and
l<~sposto tied his Knox opponent. out only two minutes into the
victories in the diving events, the the season, saw the Notre Dame f'rotty hit for 12 points and 14
second stanza, and Lucas and
Notre Dame swim team drubbed Only Rocek and Fanning freshmen squad hand them an 85-rebounds.
rampbell just couldn't match the
Kings f'ollege 77-36 Saturday in r!'corded victories against 77 defeat in what had to be the Notre Dame hustle. Lucas had one of his poorer
Wilkes-Barre, Pa. Drake. best frosh contest of the year. 
nights, according to MarquetteThe win, third in a row, fifth in Lucas and guard Dave

Th<' Irish, 3-1 on the year, took The summary: dignitaries. Despite clearing the
eight games this year, was a D<'lsman finally began to hit with 
first place in every race but the Nuln· ll"mr 35, Knox CoUeg• 5 boards for 22 caroms, he made 500-yard freestyle. IlK pounds \llk1• Martm (Nnl pinnrc1 gratifying one for coach Frank about ten minutes to go, but 
only nine of 25 shots in finishing

Art Lym<ll!; 2.: 35. McLaughlin and his Bruno hammered home four The summary: 125: Steve MoylaJt (NO) pinned Rick quick baskets and Brokaw put on with 24 points. Delsman added
L<'prechauns. Last Wednesday
Eiseman; 5:45 soe
400-vard medley relay: 1. Not're his usual super show to keep the 17, and Campbell tossed in 
1:W: Rick Esposto (NO) lied Carey night. the frosh had traveled to
Dame (Grayham, Fisher, Fahey, late layups for 15.
Monahan; 2·2 Milwaukee and presented l<'ad out of reach. When the game
Krathaus) lime-3:57.6. 1,000-yard lreestyle: 1. O'Conner 142: Curt Bramble (NO) declsioned Marquette's stiffest challenge of was over, it was once again the 6-The Leprechauns now conclude
Tom Davis; 11-1(N D.); 2. McGrath (K): 3. Ryan (K). 

time -11.00.17. 150: Gary Sprinkel (Knox) dec. Ken the year ,but returned smarting 4 leaper from New Brun­a four-game borne stand this 200-yard lree style: 1. Megher Ryen: 4-2 from an 1!6-80 setback. swick, New Jersey, who led all Saturday afternoon as they host (N.D.); 2. Kane (N.D.); 3. Heydt (K). 
158: Rich Gllloom (NO) dec. Dudley 

McCarter; 3-0 The Little Warriors, featured a scorers. Brokawy collected 28 Southwestern Michigan Saturday
time -1:51.8. 

50-yard lreestyle: I. Krathaus 157: Bill Moran (NO) won by forfeit pair of smooth 6-5 forwards, Rick points on nine baskets and 10 of afternoon at the ACC. Game time (N.D.): 2. Waller (K); 3. Wilcox (N.D.) 177: Rick Komar (ND)dec. Bob Stan· Campbell and Greg Johnson, and 12 from the charity stripe, while is 1 p.m.lime -23.1. 
ley: 10-3 200-yaril Individual medley: 1. Gra­190: AI Rocek (ND) dec. Dave McKil· hig Maurice Lucas, a 6-8 
ham (N.D.): 2. Balthrop (N.D.); 3 lip; 3-2 powPrhouse who was averaging Fencers still unbeaten 
Coaklay (K). Ttme-2'13.7. Heavywejght: Mike Fanning (SO) 

:!:!.5 points a gam<'. Rut last 
1 meter dtvmg: (rrquired): 1.' La­pinned Mike Wright: 7:31 

The Notre Dame fencing team d<'f<'ated .IO<' Valadaras, one of
Fratta (N D); 2. Naab (K); 3. Calhoun night. the Irish front thr<'e of 
(K). Time-1:22.6. Drake 27. Notre Dame 9 esta hlished itself as one of the top tlw country's foremost foilmen,
<;arv Brokaw. B!'dford Bruno, 
200-yaro buttrrfly: I. Fahay (ND): 2. 118 pounds: Kelly Bast (Drake) deci­squads in the midwrst this
sloned Mike Martin: 10;5 ami'ti-lll'<'t<' Crotty wrre the ones by scores of 5-l and 5-4,
Strack (N.D.); 3. Mc\,ram (tq. ume­

126: Donnie Williams (Drake} dec. who came through to dominate \\'('<'krnd by scoriug a dual meet n•sppctively.
•.10.8. 100-yaro freestyle: I. Kaine (N.D.)~ Steve Moylan; 7-1 lh<' gam<'. Yictory over Tri-State and ThP Irish trounced Tri-State 24­%. Waiter (K), 3. Heydt (K). Time 50.4 134: Steve Denman (Drake) dec. 
200-yard backstroke: I Balthrop Rich Esposlo; 4-0 Cuards Tom Varga and Dwight IH'rennial Ivy League power :l in the s!'cond part of the meet. 
Conwll.
(N.D.); 2. McGroarty (K); 3. Revak 142: Steve Hardman (Drake) dec. Clay lrd the hustling Irish press Top p<'rformers were Cornwall (K). Time -2:18.4. C)lrt Bramble: 4-1 
that forc<'d Marquette into early Tlw victories ""ere the third with a :l-0 record in foil, Mike
500-yard lreestyle: I. McGrail (K): 2. 150: Gregg Gruss (Drake) dec Ken 

Rvan: !1-2 turnovers and helped ND build a and fourth of the year for the Matranga 4-0, Tim Taylor 3-1,
Sl'iort (NO); 3. Ryan (NO). Time ­

~:;sl.l. 158: Vane Overturff (Drake) dec. 111-5 <'dge they never unb!'atm Irish and boosted the and Chuck Harkness 3-1 in epee,200-yard breast stroke: I. Fisher Rich Gilloom: 8-0 
r<'linguish<'d. The Warriors fPam's eons!'cutive win streak to and Hon Sollitto 4-0 and Dan
(N.D.): 2: Coakley (K); 3. Smith (K). 167: Mike Beaman (Drake) pinned time-2.27.3. John lmholl: 1:59 clickPd on only 32 per cent of their II OH'r a two·y<'ar period. 1\lulligan 2-0 in sabre. 1 meter diving (optional): LaFratta lTI: Dave Scherer (Drake) dec. Bill 
first half shots, Johnson got in A7-2 victory in the foil and a 6-3 Th<• twxt Notre Dame meet will
(N.D.); 2. Calquhoun (K): 3. Naab (K) Moran: f>.O 

157.15 points. 110: AI Rocek (NO) dec. Steve ( arly foul trouble, and the \\'in in Ppee Pnabled the Irish to lw held in the ACC on Feb. 4, Fitzpatrick; 5-2
400-yard lreestyle relay: Notre Dame I .Pprechauns held a 42-:JJ mid­down Cornell 18-9. Mike Corn­wlwn thP Irish take on Milwaukee 
(O'Connor. Short, Balthrop, Meagher). Heavyweight: Mike Fanning (NO) time· 3.30.4. pinned Don Bonner; 4:35 

gam<' advantage. wall and Warr<'n Yau both TPeh. 
Page a THE OBSERVER Tuesday, January 25, 1972 
less bong for your buck' 

NJ law muffles ear pollution for first time 
by Ronald Sullivan Gov. William T. Cahill. <cl l!li2 New York Times The new Jaw gives the New Jersey Department of En­
Trenton, N.J., Jan. 24--The vironmental Protection the nation's first comprehensive power to regulate all kinds of noise control legislation, noises that it regards as harmful calculated to muffle the clamor to phyaixal he:1lth and mental in one of the country's noisiest serenity. states, was signed here today by "What we are trying to do," 


Weekend security report 
by Ed Rahill 
This weekend saw the theft of a black Cadillac and $500 worth of merchandice, according to Security Director J. Arthur Pears. 
Pears reported that thieves stole a black Cadillac belonging to Mr. H. Holsinger of Terre Haute, Indiana, from the Morris Inn parking ot Tuesday evening between 6:20 and 7:45 P.M. County police later recovered the car, stripped of its wheels, the next morning. In addition thieves broke into three cars last week and stole an estimated $500 worth of merchandise. 

In comparison the entire vacation period was relatively crime-free, with only the theft of an electric screw driver repor­ted. Pears attributed this to what he called the "tight security conditions" on campus during the vacation. 
According to the security director, the post-vacation return of students was partially responsible for the increase in crime. However, Mr. Pears refused to assign sole blame upon returning students, asserting that some of the thieves might have come from the South Bend area. "We do not know who they are", he said. 
remarked a state environmental 
official, "is to give less bang for 
the buck." 
In signing the measure this morning, Cahill, a Republican who is gaining a tough reputation in protecting New Jersey's deteriorating environment, said that the state was the first to legislate in this field. 

As a result, instead of ex­cessive noise remaining a local crime of disturbing the peace, it will now be a statewide offense of disturbing the environment. 
Because New Jersey is the most densely populated state in the nation; ·becaus it has the most heavily traveled highways. and because it is one of the most industrialized states in the country, state environmental officials say it also is the noisiest. 
The noise has prompted one community after another to adopt local ordinances aimed at reducing it. But state officials say most of the communities simply do not have the technology to deal with the problem. Moreover, they say that most towns have treated noise as a local nuisance rather than as an environmental pollutant that some psychologists mufflers, and bar the use of regard as just as inujrious as air machines and other kinds of and water pollution. noisy equipment unless they 


The new law empowers the meet state-established noise commissioner of environmental level specifications. protection to establish statewide For example, the state would noise level standards for no longer allow a sleeping automobiles as a condition for suburbanite to be jarred from a their passing state operated Saturday morning's sleep by the inspections; to restrain in­unmuffled racket of a power dustries from disturbing mower or by the ear-grinding surrounding residents; set clatter of a garbage truck curfews for specific kinds of grinding up refuse. However, noises; prohibit the use of . there are no state provisions for mr,chines that do not have barking dogs. 
..................................................................................................................... 
Winter Consort will replace Jonathan Edwards in the Notre 
DameMardiGras concert on February 13, Rich Donovan, Social 
Commission Concert Chairman announced yesterday. 
The classical jazz group was chosen after Edwards cancelled out 
of his engagement this past weekend, Donovan said. He reported 
that Edwards was unable to appear because he was booked for two 
performances that same weekend in the South, and felt con­
sequently that it would be too difficult to keep his Notre Dame date 
We are not at all disappointed with our substitute Winter Consort, 
however, the Concert Chairman stated. "They appeared with 
Gordon Lightfoot last spring and were extremely well received." 
Donovan also noted that the group had previous 'jam 'sessions 
with Richie Havens, who will also appear that night. 





