On The Inside 
Security Insight ... pg 3 Chess Results ... pg 6 




serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VII No. 18 Tuesday, October 3, 1972 

Priority committee meets Friday 
by Tom Sheridan 

The newly established Committee on University Priorities will meet Friday, October 6th to deter­mine its organizational setup and the directions it will take. 
According to committee members interviewed, the committe is primarily in its developmental stages, both in its actual organization and the agenda that it will take up. 
planning ND priorties 

Mr. James Frick, Vice President for Public Relations and Development, said that the first meeting was but a brief initial meeting merely to set the schedule for the priorities committee. Frick feels that the committee will be one of the most important in the University. Hopefully, claims Frick, it will plan Notre Dame's priorities for the next decade or so. 

will point directions 

He also asserts that the committee will not only point the directions that the University should take 


Father Burtchaell was not available for comment. 
but also provide the answers to show Notre Dame will be able to reach these goals. Reports that have bearing on various priorities being looked into by the committee will be recommended to Fr. Theordore Hesburgh and the University's Board of Trustees for possible approval. 
need seen 
In his 21 years at Notre Dame, Frick claims to have seen the need for such a committee, especially after considering the great decade just past. He feels that the committe will have to look at and decide upon new programs that will possibly be taken up by the university and to see that Notre Dame has enough resources to allocate to these programs 


Bathon only undergra:l 
Howard Bathon, the only undergraduate student serving on the committee, claims that his selection to the committee is a mystery even to him. He says that his appointment to the committee came as a great surprise to him. He was called by Dr. William Burke. Assistant Provost and asked to join the committee probably, he says, because he was a student in a five year program. Bathon also thinks that his involvement in the College of Arts & Letters and his major in chemical engineering prompted his selection to the committtee. He has always had an interest in process of defining its func­
lions and he feels there will be a lot of "give and take" in the committee. 

open ended 

Dr. Timothy O'Meara, professor of mathematics, described the committee in this stage as being "open-ended" and feels that the all day meeting on Friday will be mostly an organizational meeting for the committee. He feels, however, tht the main purpose will be to determine how the financial resources of the university will best be used. 
According to Dr. James Paschbach, associate professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering at NO. the committee will be beneficial in that it will give insight and investigation into what the long range plans of Notre Dame are and should be. The committee represents an organization of the university's primary aims and goals as viewed by a consensus of the committee. 
Another member of the newly established com­mittee, Dr. Yusaku Furuhaski, professor of marketing management, hopes that he will offer his opinions as influenced by his own personal background as to what he feels the future of ND and its principal aims shoud be. 
Fr. James T. Burtchaell, committee chairman and Univeristy Provost, could not be reached for comment about the future of the committee at the time of this writing. 


Alumni told patience needed 
by Jim Ferry 

Sr. John Miriam Jones, Assistant to the Provost, called for "patience" "from all who are concerned with the healthy development of the new Notre Dame tradition," while speaking before the national direc­tors of the Notre Dame Alumni Association Friday night. 
Sr. Miriam went on to say that she was not calling for inaction or unquestioning but for a "dynamic patience that nourishes, suggests, prods, challenges the evolution of ttie ND woman; a new tradition--and the consequent evolution of the new NO--more excellent, more mature, more complete." 
The speech came at the first of three scheduled Alumni Meetings that will be held this year. The meetings aid the governing body of the Alumni Association in getting acquainted with the current trends on campus. 
Michael Jordan, of the Alumni Office,explained that "the meetings are intended to be mainly in­formational. They're intended to be productive insofar as we can pass on the concerns of the Alumni Association at the meetings." 
The meeting covered in particular student govern­ment, financial aid, and coeducation. 
Beginning Thursday afternoon, the Board of Directors and their wives met for a few introductory sessions. A dinner with the rectors of the male residence halls capped off the evening. 
Administrative changes made during the summer were explained by Mr. Philip Faccenda, the Acting Vice President of Student Affairs, in the first Friday morning session. Mr. Jordan termed the session an "excellent update." 
The Alumni Board next heard from a series of students who attempted to explain the role of student government and coeducation at Notre Dame. 
Ed Gray and Dennis <H-Man) Etienne explained some of the objectives of the Kersten administration, or as Jordan put it, "They explained the method to their madness." 
"Kersten and his henchmen are making student government more informal. They are taking more realistic look at student government," Jordan asserted. 
Three Notre Dame women then stated their reac­tions to coeducation at the present time. Two Union officials explained Student Union activities of the coming year to the Alumni Board. 
Father Burtchaell, University Provost, addressed the Friday luncheon. Opening with a few brief remarks, he immediately opened the floor for questioning. Inquiries ranged from coed housing plans to the problem of vandalism on campus. 
John T. Goldrick, Director of Adminssions, revealed a new program that will enable alumni to work in the Admissions office in the hopes that he may "better be 
(continued on pag. 7) 

Democratic vice presidential candidate Sargent Shriver will speak at the University of Notre Dame October 11, the University announced today. 
The time and site of Shriver's talk and other details of his campus visit will be announced later, a University spokesman said. Campaign aides said Shriver will" deliver "a major policy speech." 


the observer Tuesday, October 3, 1972 
FBI investigates bribery in Watergate case 
warld briefs 
(c) 1972 New York Times 

Washington-In a rare gesture of personal diplomacy Pres. Ni_xon invited Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei A. Gromyko to spend the mght at Camp David, the Presidential retreat in Maryland. The invitati~n, which replaced a working dinner, originally scheduled for the White 
House came after a morning White House conference in which the two officials discussed the Soviet American trade agreement and other bilateral issues, according to an administrative source. 
Washin~ton·--The Senate passed a $76 billion defense appropriation bill, 70-5, after decisively rejecting a proposal to cut off funds for further bombing in Indo-China. The measure, the largest defense appropriation bill since World War II, was passed after two days of debate. The bill, which includes $6.1 billion for the Viet Nam War, provides $3.6 billion less than was requested by the Administation. 
Atilhisan. Turkey--To the impoverished Turkish villagers of the central Anatolian Highlands, the poppy is the staff of life, but its greatest cash value has been in the form of raw opium from which most of the herion used in the United States is made. As the result of the Turkish ban on poppy growing, put into effect under strong American persuasion, the nation's illegal trade in opium is over, they say, and their income sharply curtailed. 
New York--Responding to political polls indicating he suffers from a credibility gap with voters, Sen. George McGovern coupled a brief defense of his own "veracity" with a sharp attack on President Nixon. In campaign appearance in New Jersey and here, the Democratic candidate described Nixon "as a man of no control principle except opportunism and political manipulation" and described his ad­ministration "as the most corrupt in two full centuries of American government." 
an campu• taday 
9:00 a.m.--conference, education for social change--the development of new ministies around public and private school systems, rev. douglas still, center for continuing education 
7:00 p.m.--meeting, ladies of columbus, election of officers, k of c building 7:00--spanish tutorial, regina hall lobby 7:00--lecture, wet land development, mr. jimmy new, nature center west wing, south bend 
7: 
30--conference, catholic schools: present situation and possibilities for change, george elford and tilden edwards, center for continuing education 8:00-lecture, history, politics, and american catholicism, prof. david j. o'brien, university club lounge 8:00--lecture, norman mailer, stepan center 

7: 
30--meeting, peace action at the air force game, grace hall pit 




Washington, Oct. 2-The FBI and officials of the General SeCurity Services, a private guard firm, are investigating a report that some uniformed guards at the Watergate were "paid off" to permit many nighttime entries of Democratic headquarters before five intruders were arrested there June 17. 
Martin Dardis, Chief In­vestigator for Dade County (Fla.) State's Attorney Richard E. Gerstein, has told the Star-News he was informed of the alleged payoffs by a Miami Beach photo­equipment salesman last week. 
Dardis said the informant claimed he was told of the payoffs by one of the Watergate burglary suspects whom the informant identified only as "Virgilio." 
One of the five arrested June 17 is Virgilio Gonzales, a Cuban-born locksmith and former bodyguard to onetime Cuban president Grau San Martin. 
According to Dardis, "Virgilio" bought a quantity of photo equipment from the informant and 
SMC security nabs youth for suspected molesting 
by Mary Janca Observer Staff Reporter 

A nineteen-year-old South Bend man was apprehended Monday evening for allegedly molesting St. Mary's students. 
Accordingto Anthony Kovatch, the new SMC Security Chief, the youth was apprehended at 7:45 behind the Security Office. Earlier in the evening, a girl reported an incident and when the car and driver rna tched descriptions Security apprehended him. 
The man, who is not a Notre Dame student, was released to the custody of his parents and is now undergoing psychiatric care. 
Since last spring, five or six cases have been reported. In all incidents, the girls entered the cars voluntarily. The young man asked for directions to specific halls on campus. 
This prompted Kovatch and Mrs. 
--------------------------.
NOTRE DAME-ST. MARYS THEATRE presents 
THE LION IN WINTER 
James Goldman's witty, intelligent comedy. 
Nov. 22 Nov. 26 
O'Laughlin Auditorium St. Mary's Campus 
l 

Tix on sale at the Travel Bureau..
October 6, 7, 12, 13, 14 at 8:30p.m. 

Students $1.50 Phone Reservations 284-4176 
during the transaction boasted that with which the intruders got into he and the others had entered the the offices of then Democratic Watergate offices "40 to 50 times" National Chairman Lawrence F. by bribing guards employed by the O'Brien, and their failure to flee private security force assigned to when they learned that locks they protect the building. had secured with tape had been 
Dardis refused to identify his tampered with. informant, but he said the story, if Dardis said that on the night of borne out, could explain the ease June 17 the General Security 
ND security ' is tight~ over Purdue -weekend 
Notre Dame's Purdue weekend was characterized by few criminal incidents, in spite of the ap­proximately 60,000 fans at the ND­Purdue game and the 10,000 in the Chicago concern audience, says Security Director Arthur Pears. 
There were some disturbances during the generally placid three­day period. 
A rock was thrown through the rear window of a car parked in the white field parking lot sometime during the game, and another car 
Robin  Hague,  Direcotr  of  St.  
Mary's  Public  Information,  to  
stress,  "This  is  a_  lesson  for  

students on both campuses--don't get into any car of a stranger." 
They also pointed out that "this is a very unusual occurence on this campus," and they hoped that no students or parent& would become alarmed or panic-stricken. 
Mrs. Hague noted that the man had not hurt any of the girls that he picked up. In fact, she claimed that all he did was make "some 
heavy passes." 
The Observer is published dally during the college semester ex­cept vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S8 per semester (14 per year) from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 465.56. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
I 
BUSES l CIRCLE O'HARE I 
FOR THANKSGIVING
I Leave All Sales Final. Return 
was spray-painted in the vicinity of 
the ACC during the Chicago con­
cert there. 
Both cars belong to non-university people. 
A wallet was found in the vestibule of Sacred Heart Church, emptied of its $125. 
Pears reports that twenty-seven cars were ticketed in the C-3 and D­2 parking lots. He a~ds that this 1 could have been avmded h~d the cars ~n m?ved accordi_ng to clear mstrucbons posted m the lots. . . . 
. Secunty pohce also c~nfiscated .around a dozen studeAt tickets that were us~d, says Pears, to try to get o_thers mto the game. Student tickets a~e non-transferable. 
These b~kets are turned over to the Athletic Department and ac­tion concerning them is left at the discretion of the Department. 
ST. JOSEPH COUNTY CITIZENS FOR McGOVERN YOU ARE INVITED TO ATTEND; 
Time--8:00 p.m. 
Date--Tuesday (every week} 
Where--301 North Michigan 
(Old South Shore Station} 
Services crew on duty underwent a 
change in patrol routine because 
one of two sechduled guards left 
early, saying he was ill. This left 
only a guard named Frank Wills on 
the Watergate premises; Dardis' 
information is that Wills was not 
part of the alleged payoffs. 
Willis has told police he made 
scheduled patrols of the building at 
midnight and 2 A.M. His report 
was that he discovered six doors 
leading from the basement to a fire 
staircase with the locks taped so 
they would not snap shut. Wills 
believing the doors had been taped 
during the day by workmen, tore off the tape and resumed his patrol 
But later, he said, he "had a hunch" and returned to find the doors taped again, whereupon he called police and the arrests were made minutes later. Observers and investigators have been baffled by the apparent in­difference of the intruders to the discovery that the tape had been removed from the doors and that they had remained after presumably replacing the tape. Police and investigators have 
concluded that under ordinary circumstances, such a discovery would have seen intruders fleeing. 
The photographic shop salesman, Dardis specified, is not the Miami photo dealer who recently informed Gerstein's office that he had developed some film for two of the defendants last June. 
That dealer was Michael Richardson of Miami. 
Richardson has given Gerstein a sworn statement that he developed two rolls of 35mm film for men he identified as Bernard L. Barke and Frank Sturgis, two of the Miami men indicted in the bugging case. 
The Miami Beach photo operator sold photo equipment to "Virgilio" whom he knew, Dardis said, because the Cuban had a girl friend working for the shop. The Richardson film, which Gerstein, said was given to the customers and has not been found by in­vestigators, reportedly showed personal corespondence of O'Brien. 
Dardis said the Miami Beach man told him the FBI already had questioned him about the Watergate defendants. F. Kelly Chamberlain, executive Vice President of the General Security Guard Force, told the Star-News he is making his own investigation to find out whether any of his employees had accepted money to look the other way while intrusions were made into Democratic headquarters . 

(Season subscriptions still available -5 plays $6.50) 
jQues,tions Call Monte Kearse at 7757 or 34591


~---------------.~-----~l ) 


Tuesday, October 3, 1972 the observer 
ND security officers have busy weekends 


-,

GUESS 

The Big Fall Concert Series Continues with: 
THE GUESS WHO plus special guest star: VVhite Trash October 14 at 8::l> in the ACC 
Tickets: 5.50 -all chair seats $3.00 -bleachers 

Tickets now on sale at the A.C.C. ticket office (Gate 10, 9-5) and. at the Student Union Office in La Fortune Center (4-5 
daily). 

L 
... presented by the N.D. Student Union 

1...----------.J. -~---______........l.. 
by Don Ruane Observer Executive Editor 

Unit 1 pulled away from Base just as the Chicago concert was getting ready to unleash 12,000 people, and enough traffic to teach one patience. 
Before Sgt. Boyd Fuhr could get into his routine the radio crackled as we were off to the parking lot south of the ACC. Some guy impressed his date by locking the car with the keys inside. 
As Unit I pulled away, destined for the home of the Big Red, Sgt. Fuhr was hailed by the occupants of a Ford station wagon, which refused to start. Explaining that it was against security regulations to jump . batteries with security vehicles, Sgt. Fuhr offered tv call one of two private service stations which offer their services to the University. 
This produced a spark of hope for the girls, but it quickly died when he added there would be a service charge. Dejectedly and with an air of "you're a big help," they wailed away in search of a way home. 
Security forbids using jumping cables becuase the radio or alternator could be damaged if the dead battery is designed to handle a larger voltage than the security car battery. 
Big Weekend, but 

Although Notre Dame had thumped Purdue that afternoon, and the concert attracted one of the biggest , crowds yet for such an event, Sgt. Fuhr expected a quiet evening, and he was right. 
Most of the night was spent in routine patrol, noting which Jightposts were out and checking various gates and locks. Security tries to serve the campus in as many ways as possible. Saturday this included needle and thread for one person, who stretched the seat of his pants to the limit. 
When arrangements were made for Security to take this reporter for a ride, I got the impression that if there would be any excessive partying or disruptions, they would come between II p.m. and 4 a.m. 
At 3:45 a.m. the first, and only serious Jroblem was reported to Base. Some Lyons Hall residents had left their room unlocked for some time, and when they returned an unidentified youth with dried blood from his mouth on his chin, was sleeping on their couch. 
Sgt. Fuhr questioned the youth and found that he was a 20 year old student at Northern Illinois University at DeKalb, who was visiting with friends in Morrissey Hall. He was taken to St. Joseph's Hospital in Unit I, and further questioning determined that he had been in an argument with some Purdue fans which resulted in some loosened and chipped teeth. The student was treated and released. 
Carelessness 

The unlocked door was an example of the carelessness Sgt. Fuhr talked about earlier in the patrol. He was checking parked behind Stepan Center and found that one 
was not locked. "It's unlocked all the way 'security in search of their stolen bikes, 

HIRIIUIIIDinntiiiiRIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIRD1111111011DBIIIIIIOunmmmnnllnn11111-IIH~ 
i 
= 
§ 


I ~ 
a few years ago, when it was popular to call a 
cop a certain kind of pig.•. But that attitude has 
changed, partly because times have changed, 
and because security has changed."
ill111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111101111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111Iii 
around. This is how cars get stolen," he 
said. 

Surprised that there were no keys in the 
ignition, he added, "Anybody who wanted to 
joyride could just jump it across. I don't 
know what is the matter with these people." 
Sgt. Fuhr extended his comments to in­clude the residence halls, using Christmas vacation as an example. He explained that each hall is checked three times a night during the break, but it seems to be wasted when the student returns. "Old John will come back from Christmas, unlock the door, put his bags down and go up to talk with old Pete." 
Unfortunately, "old John" doesn't pull the door shut and lock it, and spends more time than he intended talking with "old Pete." In the meantime his bags get ripped off. 
Students help 

Sometimes, and more so now than in past years, students will help security do their job. Saturday night students reported two persons acting suspiciously near the ROTC building but a check found all secure. 
Sgt. Fuhr recalled a past incident, as we pulled onto the road to St. Mary's near the cemetary, when two students rode with 
instead of simply giving a description. They 
found the bikes at Angela and Notre Dame 
Avenues where the young thieves were 
busily repainting the frames in broad 
daylignt. 

Students like security better now than 
they did a few years ago, when it was 
popular to call a cop a certain kind of pig. 
When that happened, "all you could do was 
hunch up like a jersey cow in a hail storm 
and take it," Sgt. Fuhr said with some local 
color from his former home in Mt. Vernon, 
Missouri. 

But that attitude has changed, partly 
because times have changed, and because 
security has changed. Several students 
make extra cash patrolling for the parking 
lots, and a good part of the force does not 
have a large age differential with which to 
contend. 

Other reasons include the different ap­
proach to problems than that used by 
students a few years ago, the nature of the 
security force, and things like the friendly 
wave and Ozark flavored "Hi" that Sgt. 
Fuhr gave to many students walking or 
riding across campus Saturday night. 
Sgt. Fuhr finds security much more relaxing than regular police work.. He speaks from experience having been in law . enforcement for more of 
it as chief of police in Mt. Vernon. He thinKs 
that many others on the force, especially 
those who moonlight after covering beats 
for the South Bend force, feel the same way. 
While security's job is to protect the 
campus primarily form outsiders, oc­
cassionally it has to protect the campus 
from within. Each year there seems to be a 
rivalry between Zahm and Keenan as to who 
can play their stereo loudest, and set off the 
most firecrackers. This was handled by 
talking with the rectors of each hall, and 
allowing them to try and smooth things out. 
This year it was successful. 
However, last spring a firecracker war erupted between Howard and Badin Halls after the entire campus was hit with a blackout. The war lasted about three days, and the walls of each building were splat­~~red with dirt by the exploding· firecrackers. It ended with security bringing the dean of students to the scene to talk with the residents with a bull horn. 
Long and Lonely 
The night shift can be long and lonely, even if you get used to it. Once you are assigned a shift, there is no alternating with 
'other crews. Sgt. Fuhr would like to see the day shift from the sunset side rather than the sunrise end every 6 months or so, but he understands that there are not enough men to make the transition between night and day shifts efficient. 
Loneliness is not as great a problem for Unit 1 as it is for a foot patrolman. Sgt. Fuhr is constantly sending and .receiving since he is basically a mobile command post, while the foot patrolman makes occassional check-ins via walkie-talkie. 
The mobile units also check the gatekeepers occassionally, sometimes getting a surprise. Saturday night the Convo cooked too many hot dogs. Some student empolyees, who were among the last to leave grabbed a few hundred leaving a few hundred more behind, and shared their booty with the Main Gate Of­ficer Paul Shirtz. 
Sgt. Fuhr and I helped ourselved , took some back to Base for dispatcher Rich Gloyeski. Several students were given some hot dogs, and three were so appreciative they tried Alumni and Dillon halls to get us some cokes. They .couldn't get any, but they came back with some Schlitz, which the officers had to refuse because of duty. The .rector of Badin Hall also chanced upon our fortune. 
There are other ways to fight the 
monotony. Occassionally Sgt. Fuhr takes 
escort duty and gives a Sister who works 
late at the Galvin Life Center a ride to her 
hall. 
And so it went Saturday night and early. 
Sunday. One might have expected quite a 
bit of celebrating and a few incidences of 
rowdiness, but all was quiet except for the 
DeKalb student. But then again you never 
know until it's over. According to Sgt. Fuhr, 
~the nights you expect to be less than routine, 
are sometimes worse than the big weekend . 

European Trippin'=J


THE OBSERVER 

First 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 

Impressions 

Editorials printed in The Observer reflect the opinion of the writer,News: 283·1715 on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinipn of the
Editorial: 283-8661 Business: 283-7471 individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial comment. 
ann mccarry 

Tuesday, October 3, 1972 


SMC 'Securify' 
Security has finally apprehended the "Saint Mary's Monster," and chances are that most women weren't even aware of his existence. Although he is now in custody and technically no longer a threat, the incident should not be taken lightly. The easy accessibility of the campus to strangers and the fact that strangers actually have harassed students on several occasions indicates the need for special precautions. Any campus--especially a women's campus-­that does not have a traffic control system similar to Notre Dame's is bound to be a target for outside troublemakers of all kinds. 
What can be done? Perhaps a traffic control system would be unfeasible for Saint Mary's, but a study of the security situation reveals some rather unsettling facts. All night calls are sent to Notre Dame becausethereis no one in the SMC security building after about 6 p.m. to take calls. 
So if you're attacked at night on the Saint Mary's campus, don't run to the security office for help--there won't be anyone there. The entire night force consists of a foot patrolman and perhaps one or two guards patrolling the campus in the squad car. Many times when a security guard is needed and a telephone is not in the immediate vicinity, the squad car cannot be located. Your telephone call will eventually reach the' car (via Notre Dame), resulting in a delay of what would be precious minutes in an emergency. · 
This is hardly adequate protection for students. Although no crises have oc­cured as yet, it would take only one to create an embarassing situation. A summoning of support from the Notre Dame force could prove too late in a serious case. Unless Saint Mary's wants to run the risk of leaving students inadequate protection, a step-up in personnel appears necessary. 
Most students don't have cars, and transportation being as unpredictable as it is, hitchhiking seems to be the logical alternative. Even the freshmen orien­tation booklet of th.eUniversity of Notre Dame recommends it as readily availableSaintMary's has not gone so far as to endorse hitchhiking; but no official statement on it has been issued. Last year after an SMC hitchhiker was picked up by a South Bend resident and "roughed up" Dean of Students Katherine Mullaney stipulated that an official denouncement of hitchhiking would be forthcoming. But no such denouncement ever materialized. 
While a university community is generally considered to be a safe place to thumb a ride, the proximity of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College to South Bend and other cities may raise some understandable apprehension in many. The danger doesn't come from the university residents--it comes from the outside, as evidenced by the incidents of last year and this year. Any students who accept rides from strangers could be walking into a trap. We're past the age of 
J. Edgar Hoover's color-in scare tactics, but the dangers are nevertheless very real and should be recognized. 
Campus security cannot, of course, eliminate all possible hazards to the students under their protection, but responsibility rests on both security and students to eliminate J.lllnecessary risks. 
Maria Gallagher 

Food Service Survey 
Food Services Director Edmund T. Price recently said he is agreeable to a suggestion that students be a flowed toea t on any food line of the North or South Dining Hall. The idea behind the suggestion, as presented in the Sepl 29 edition of the Scholastic, would allow friends to eat together regardless of where they live on campus, and to break the monotony of eating three meals a day in the sa me place. 
Name------------------------------­
V\ddress------------­
ID----------------­•---------YES, I would like to be able to eat 
in any dining hall I desire (provided, of course, I 
have a meal contract>. 
-------NO, the idea doesn't appeal to me. 
It could be a good idea, and students should let the Food Services know what they think by filling out the coupon on page 25 of the currect Scholastic, or by calling the Student Government secretary at 7668. 
However there should be some controls to prevent everyone from flocking to one dining section, such asl all the men to the west side of the South Dining Hall, where most of the female students dine. One method might be a quota list for the various lines, or a system of tickets such as in the coex program. Whatever the method, the Food Service must know who Hill be eating where in advance, so that there will be adequate preparation. This is a fine chance for the Food Service Committee to be productive. 
Don Ruane 

IIIIIIIIIIHIIIHimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIUIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIUIIIIIImiiiiiiiiiiWIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIUIIIIDIIII 

'll•rry trudeau 
,....--------..:; 

o.K... 
OITCH YOU 1"CHORROW.. I 

Perugia, Italy-The role of an American student aborad is a difficult one to define. Administrators of the program initiate the year stressing that "Students should remember that they are acting as ambassadors of the United States. They should behave as mature young men and women at all times, remembering that many Europeans base their opinions of America as a whole on the way American students and visitors behave." 
Parents urge tnat one acquires not only academic knowledge but also finesse and sophistication through experiences with art, "Culture", and the ways of the world. 
The student, however, looks at a year of study abroad from a separate perspective. Travel, art, "culture", study and meeting new people are all on the agenda as parents and professors suggest. More importantly, though, it is a year of self-determination, independent thought and action. 
Accordingly, the student administrates his diplomatic post in his own way. The method may vary from day to day, dependent on the particular situation and people involved. One day it may mean listening attentively as an old Franciscan padre gives a personally guided tour of his cathedral. On another occassion, one could be in the local piazza introducing the neighborhood to Frisbee in exchange for soccer lessons. 
It's doubtful that Henry Kissinger would approve of these naive methods. We usually succeed in our mission, nonetheless. The people we meet rarely forget us. We impress them with our honesty, amition, congeniality, innate sense of humor and good times. 
Our tour last week of the Perugina Factory, Perugia 's world-famous chocolate and candy industry is an entertaining example of the practical application of our theory. ' 
Aftt>rnoon at the Factory 

It was a peaceful, sunny Italian atternoon. All the Italians had closed their businesses and gone home to enjoy a leisurely dinner and afternoon nap, as dictated by Italian custom. This custom could not stop the traditional efficiency of the Perugi'nat Chocolate Corporation nor our amitious tourist zeal. 
The forty-eight of us were overwhelmed by the size of t!te factory. Europe's largest and most modern, it employes 4,000 workers and produced 120 tons of candy daily, and flaunts branches ill, such glamorous locations as South Hackensack, New Jersey. Perugina also boasts of its day care center for working mothers--its contribution to women's lib <and a very innovative one here.) 
Entering the bulding, we were greeted by a bilingual guide who lead us down a darkened corridor an impressive scale model of the facilities. Smiling, our guide proceeded with an explanation vaguely reminiscent of a UN tour. As she ushered us into the factory, neither her quiet manner nor our cautious whispers were indicative of the chaos to follow. 
The factory occupies 100,000 square meters and is a marvel of completely automatic production lines. Our entourage walked the circumference of the plant on a catwalk, open from the waist UlJ to allow full appreciation of the works, the aroma, and later, the tastes. 
The factory workers looked at us strangely. Many, baffled by our Notre Dame windbreakers, called out to us in French. Others smiled, 
waved or tried to make points with the girls. customed to the scrutiny of foreign visitors. succeeded, however, in carving a lasting me!)lOries; "Roxie Rah-Rah."  Most ignored us, ac­One of our members impression on their  
What's Notre Dame·~  

It is difficult to explain the existence of Notre Dame and-{)r its co­existence with football to any Italian. No wonder they could not un­derstand Roxie. Roxie assaulted the Perugina Corporation in blue jeans, a kelly green ND-1 shirt, aND jacket and white tennies, upon which she had stenciled "ND-1". Bringing up the rear of our line, she gallivanted happily along, humming the fight song, as if nine instead of nineteen. 
All thoughts of "mature behavior" and "educational opportunities" continued to escape her. Performing in a natural style that could have rivaled Better Davis, Marcel Marceau and the Three Stooges, Roxie made friends with all the neatly uniformed workers and machine operators. Communicating in Italian salted liberally with Spanish, Pig Latin and sign language, she succeeded in obtaining samples of every finished product and several of the intermediate steps. 
Playing more and more to her audience's response, Roxie caught a full bag of chocolate dragees, a pound of Jordan almonds, and a scoopful of confetti. 
Roxie's Oscar-winning performance came at the end of our tour. Two-foot bars of almond-laced nougat filed by under the catwalk on a conveyor belt. Unfortunately, the room was staffed completely by women, so the old meet-you-after-work trick would not work. Here was Roxie's greatest challenge. 
Summoning alH the energy an afternoon of sugar consumption had given her, Roxie, drawing herself to her full height, launched into a passionate, dramatic speech, unquotable because of its lack of conc­rete words and overdbundance of gesture. Roxie was duly awarded her prize. 
One woman worker glanced nonchalantly over her shoulder at the turned back of her supervisor,brokeone of the bars in half, firing both of the pieces at Roxie in rapid succession. With skill that would send Parseghian after her, contract in hand, Roxie completed the passes and quickly exited with her bounty. 
Our tour was over. To say that the guide looked pleased to bid us good bye would be an understatement. For her, the afternoon had been bedlam. For us, nevertheless, it had been a success. Not only had we collected more loot than pirates on Halloween, we had also made many new Italian allies. · 
The 4,000 Perugina employees may not remember our names, faces, our majors or where we came from. If they only remember those crazy American (?l-French<?l-H?l students who temporarily in­terrupted their assembly line efficiency, and smile, we will be happy. 

.. 
Tuesday, October 3, 1972 the observer 
5 






Viewpoint 
mit:r:~anr:~ apple Civilian casualities the quiet strategy 
by Herbert Mitgang ·
S
(CI 1!172 New York Times News ervice washington--There is one human matter that is virtually unmentionable in the of­ficial American pronouncements about the Vietnam War. It concerns the casualities and refugees--practically none of whom are white--caused by present bombing policies over Allied, enemy and neutral countries in Indochina. Repeatedly, the Administration has emphasized that the war was inherited and 'that a half-million ground troops have been withdrawn from South Vietnam. True enough, but a big omission here is th~t, because of expansion of the war theatre with air and navy units and their deep in­frastructure, there are still a half-million Americans supporting Vietnam hostilities across the wide Pacific Command. President Nixon's declaration that there will only· be 27,000 Americans in South Vietnam by Dec.1 is more than a con­cealment of the actual military manpower engaged in the war. It plays down the risks run daily by carrier pilots off the Gulf of Tonkin and fighter pilots taking off from Thailand bases against Soviet MIG's and missiles; and it witholds their role from public attention. But the greatest omission of all concerns the nonwhite people on the receiving end of the terror falling from the skies. Watching Sen. Kennedy's Subcommittee on Refugees attempt to extract the facts from Ad­ministration spokesmen is a despairing sight. A few days ago, in the Old Senate Office Building, he asked, why is it easy for vou to tell us how many bridges have been destroyed in North Vietnam and the precise number of trucks hit along the Ho Chi Minh trail but not how many hospitals, schools, churches and other civilian installations have been hit by our bombs'! The evasive response by an Assistant Secretary of State was that these were not deliberate military targets but only "regrettable by-products" of the violence of warfare. Nevertheless, the Subcommittee on Refugees has been able to assemble the human cost of the expanded Vietnam War. Sources include church, medical and voluntary groups, United Nations agepcies, the General Accounting Office and field observers reporting to the Subcommittee's counsel, Dale S. De Haan, plus whatever information is made available by the Government's intelligence and military groups--which do not have civilian refugees 
and casualities high on their lists of con­cern.
The "regrettable by-products" include these statistics:In the last two years about 400,000 people have been killed throughout Indochina--a frightening number that is an actual "bloodbath," as distinct from the theoretical one predicted by Nixon in the event that American support was with­drawn from the Thieu government. Since the North Vietnamese do not divulge their casualties, the real figures could well ex­ceed this estimate. The people displaced from their homes by the war's contiunation in the last two years include: 1,850,000 South Vietnamese refugees; 2,000,000 Cambodian refugees; 
250.000 Laotian refugees, and an unknown number of North Vietnamese. South Vietnam has suffered the most; the Refugees Subcommittee estimates that the total number of refugees since the war began is 8,000,000, almost one-half of the South Vietnamese population. 
The military and civilian dead, wounded and displaced throughout Indochina will only be known when the war finally ends. In the meantime, there is little preparation by the United States to alleviate the suffering of the nonwhite people whose governments have been supported and whose bases have been used as airstrips to launch new casualties, new refugees among the civilian populations. Efforts to pay for the suf­fering, distinct from the armaments, have been cut in Administration budgets. 
Based on hospital records, about one­fourth of the wounded civilians in South Vietnam are children under 12. Most of the South Vietnamese doctors go into military service. leaving hospitals understaffed. Some hospitals h:IVe been destroyed, others no longer function. And the wounded and refugees still run at the rate of several thousand every day the war goes on. They run to Saigon's side when North Vienam's shells burst and run again when American bombs fall. But the Senate Subcommittee's analysts report a new development in recent months: hundreds of thousands in the Northern provinces chose to remain under North Vietnamese rule and did not "vote with their feet" for Saigon. 
Bombing from on high, obeying the call of the sensors and unloosing the smart bombs, American fliers fortunately are sustaining few casualties. The same cannot be said for the nonwhite civilian populations of In­dochina, about whom the American public does not hear in its Presidential bulletins. 
by R. W. Apple Jr. 

<C> 1!172 New York Times News Service 
Washington--The frustration bursts from Sen. George McGovern quite often; it is a variation of the old schoolboy taunt, "Why won't he come out and fight like a man?" Last week, the South Dakotan made several 
derisive references to President Nixon's 
habit of "dropping down from the skies" in 
his helicopter once in a while to mingle with 
the people. Monday night, in Tacoma, 
Wash., he spoke bitterly about the 
President' surrogate campaigners--he 
called them "lackeys" and "second-rate 
bureaucrats"--getting so much attention 
from the press and television. 

McGovern is frustrated for a simple reason: the minimum-campaigning strategy of the President is working to perfection, in both obvious and quite subtle fashions. It is a central reason, some political observers believe, fof Nixon's massive lead in the polls. 
Nixon has begun to make a few political trips, including brief visits this week to Texas, California and New York. There was 
·even a day or two last week when both Presidential and both Vice-Presidential candidates were on the campaign circuit. But Nixon has in no way begun a formal, continuing campaign yet, and he will almost certainly not do so at least another three weeks. 
Even when he finally does take to the road, Republican planners report, his schedule is likely to be so sparse that he will do less campaigning than any President since Franklin D. Roosevelt in 1944. In that year, Roosevelt, having broken the third­term barrier and pleading the press of wartime decision-making, made only about five speeches of consequence outside Washington. 
McGovern has attempted to suggest that Nixon is violating American political tradition by his pattern of conduct, but in fact the strategies of incumbent Presidents have depended almost entirely upon politics and metaboHsm, not upon some unwritten compulsion to go before the people. 
The result of Nixon's strategic decision has been a split focus in the media: McGovern-his programs, his tactics, his cam~ai.gn organiz~tion--have been cl~sely scruhmzed, .but Nixon has ~een weigh~ only as President, not as candidate.There IS no;chance to catch Nixon in gaffes and slips, no chance to critique his campaign style. 
"In one way," said a prominent Democrat the other day, "it was a heaven-sent op­portunity. Had things been going well •. it would have biven George the chance to build his credibility as a Presidential alternative. But they did not go well-the constant scrutiny has hurt--and Nixon has gotten an almost free ride." 
If that appraisal is correct, and interviews with voters in half a dozen states suggest that it is, the rest of the story of this curious election so far falls nearly into place. 
While Nixon has been seen on television and in the press as a steadfastly presidential figure, McGovern has been seen as a man whose very capacity to organize, to for­mulate--ultimately, to govern--is constantly questioned. 
In such a situation, issues are relegated to secondary importance. What does it matter if a voter questions Nixon's commitment to economic betterment for blue-collar workers if the same voter is unable to picture McGo";:ern in the White House? As one of' McGovern's advisers put it this week, "most voters never even get to the question of issues until they have decided in some mysterious way, that both candidates are basically qualified to handle the Presidency." 
If by laying low Nixon has amplified McGovern's difficulties in projecting himself as a viable presidential alternative, he has also benefitted in another way. His absence from the campaign, together with the yawning gap between the two men in the polls, appears to have bored the electorate. Football is more on the mind of the voter this fall than politics, it would appear, and in that situation, the historic tendency of the American electorate to identify the Presidency with the occupant is magnified. 
None of this is lost on the more realistic of the McGovern supporters. One of the remarked wryly this week after the McGovern campaign took the extraordinary step of publicizing rather than suppressing a poll that showed their man 22 points behind: 
"Well, it'~ a little i~provement, and,if you tell me were clutchmg at .straws, I !,1 tell you that we are, but a straw Is a straw. 
1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 II UlllllllllllllllllllllllIIII111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 UIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIDIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUJJJIIIIIll111111111 Ill1111111111111· 

Mailer: from Harvard to politics 
Norman Mailer will speak tomorrow night at Stepa,n Center at 8:OOp.m. The admission fee is 50 cents. The following is a short summary of his life and works. -ed. 
Norman Mailer, born in 1923, in Long Branch, New Jersey, was raised in Brooklyn, New York, where he now lives. Entering Harvard University at sixteen, he majored in aeronautical engineering, but while there he became interested in writing. 
He won the Story Magazine college award in 1941. After graduating he was drafted into the Army and served during the Second World War in the Philippines. Just following the end of the war, he began to write The Naked and the Dead. This book, which was published in 1948, was widely accepted as the finest war novel of the last conflict. 
His second novel, Barbary Shore, was published in 1951. Following were The Deer Park (1955), Advertisements for Myself 0959), and a volume of poetry Death for the Ladies, which was published in 1962. Mailer then wrote and published The Pr~sidential Papers 0963), An American Dream (1964), Cannibals and Christians (1965), Why are We in Vietnam? (1967), The Armies of the Night 0968). Miami and the Siege of Chicago was an assessment of the Democratic and Republican campaigns of 1969. Mailer at this same time was working on his films. 
Norman Mailer has been prominent in anti-war demonstrations since the early 1960's. He played a significant role in the dmonstration held at the Pentagon in Oc­tober 1967, and like many Americans of his persuasion, has served short sentences in prison. 
The writer was one of the editors of "Dissent" from 1952 until 1963, and a co­founder of "The Village Voice," perhaps America's most influential weekly newspaper. He has also been one of America's most prolific writiers of essays and major non-fiction pieces in all im­portant magazines. He is one of the chief spokesmen for the artistic community in New York, and an active figure in politics as well. 
In 1969 he attracted much attention when he ran for political office, offering himself as a reform candidate for Mayor of New York City. He formulated a number of plans for city re-organization and city planning, based on small ethnic areas or neigh­borhoods. He is an advocate of decen­tralisation. As a candidate, he was able to use the rostrum as he has used his books and films, to point new directions in social and political areas. 

.. 
the observer Tuesday, October J, 1972
6 
Last night's results 
The first night of theobserver Chess Club Chess Tournament brought out 84 contestants to play for the campus crown. The results were: 
1 Antolino over Burger 23. Ursu over Zagrans 
20. 
Trofino over Arena 42. Marchuska over Anchetta 

21. 
Saville over Crowley 43. O'Neil-bye 

22. 
~owalk over O'Connell 



Tonight's 1natches 

1B Antolino (1262) 2 W Kelly (8765) 3B Pettit (1286) 4 B Parker (6325) 5 B Kohlimiller (1177) 6 W Glika 0598) 7 B Osburne (1781) 
28 W Pulask (6781) 29 B Foretta (272-1365) 30 W Mesure (7978) 31 B Weaver (1740) 32 B Lukmani (232-6784 33 W Perry (3114) 
34 B Mutz (1093) 35 B Hanrahan (1201 36 B McCollum (7874 37 B Harvey (7791 38 B Keenan (3317) 39 B Rohrer (1298) 40 B Crowley (1583 41/ B Bornholdt (8455) 42 W Gibbs (234-6564) 
W Burger 0057) B Marchuska W Dooley (8933) W Lis (234-6689) W Mendez (8876) B Mulvoy (234-6928) 
W Spencer (3423) 
B Slottery <8286) W Downka (234-1385) B Wenhoff (1388) W Griffin (8604) W DeSavssure 0372) B Shott (5612) W Zagrans (1389 W Yates (8406) W Dougle (8977) W Oneil W Arena (1062) W Fitzpatrick (8658 W DeGrange (3714) W O'Connell (6795 
W Hariharun (234-9292). 

CAC presents Norman Mailer's film 

"Maidstone'' 
Ergneering Auditorium October 4 8 &1 0 p.m. Admission $1.00 
Note: Norman Mailer will be speaking · ot Notre Dame on October 3 rd. 


Nobel laureate named 73 Nieuwland lecturer 
A Nobel Laureate with interests in the chemical basis of evolution has been named Rev. Julius A.' Nieuwland Lecturer in Chemistry by the College of Science and the Department of Chemistry at the University of Notre Dame. The College and Department also selected five researchers to be Peter C. Reilly Lecturers during the coming academic year. 
Dr. Manfred Eigen of the Max Planck Institute for Biophysical Chemistry in Gottingen, Germany, will speak on "Self-Organization of Matter and the Evolution of Biological Macromolecules' March 26-30, 1973 under the Nieuwland Lecture Series. He shared the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1967 for his research on extremely fast chemical reactions. 
Reilly Lecturers include: 

--Dr. Anthony M. Trozzolo, a member of the technical staff of the Bell Telephone Laboratories, who will speak on "Creation and 
St. Joe police nab driver of hit-skip car in South Bend 
by David Rust Observer Staff Reporter 

St. Joseph County police have apprehended a 16 year old South Bend boy who struck Security Officer Richard Biniasz in a hit­and-run accident on Sept. 15. 
Police had been looking for the driver of a 1968 or 1969 blue-green Chevy Nova that witnesses say hit Biniasz the night of the 15th 
following  the  Seals  and  Croft  
concert.  
Biniasz  was  patrolling parking  

lot D-1 along Juniper Road with Security Officer Kevin Dunbar. The Nova veered off Juniper Road and struck Biniasz on the shoulder of the road. Dunbar was unin­jured. 
Biniasz, an off-campus student in his second year with Security, is now out of the hospital and back on the job according to Security Director Arthur Pears. 
Security officials failed to reveal the name of the alleged assailant. 
Detection of Unstable Organic Intermediates" October 16-20. 
--Dr. David A. Shirley, professor of chemistry at the University of California at Berkeley, who will speak on "X-ray Photoelectron Spectroscopy in Chemistry" Oc­tober 30-November 3. 
--Dr. John C. Bailar, Jr., professor of inorganicchemistry at the University of Illinois, who will speak on "Stereochemistry of Complex Ions" November 27­December l. 
Dr. Jerrold Meinwald, professor of chemistry at the University of California at San Diego, who will speak on "Organic Chemical Communication and Related Chern 
icle Interactions in Nature" March 5-9, 1973. 
--Dr. Jerard Hurwitz, professor of molecular biology at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine in New York, who will speak on "DNA-Dependent RNA Polymerase in lntitiation, Elongation and Termination of RNA Synthesis" April 30-May 4, 1973. 
The Nieuwland Lectureship was established in 1943 to honor the Rev. Julius A. Nieuwland, a Notre Dame chemist who first developed the synthetic rubber neoprene. The Peter C. Reilly Lectureship was established in 1945 in honor of 

.~o_~:_t~,_!~~~anapolis i-~~~~t.:r_::ia:::h:'s:t·_~::::;::==============:::;:;, 

AUTUMN RETREAT 
Open to all ND/SMC Students 
Sun. Oct. 8 from 2 to 9 p.m. 
SMC Clubhouse 
For information and reservations, call by Thurs. Fr. Tom Stella (7325) Fr. Roger Cormier (5389) or Campus Ministry (6536 or 5284) 
1975COULD FINDYOUJUST ANOTHER COlLEGE GRAD ORAJR.EXEC IN 





AGEMENT. 
If you're a young man or woman with 2 academic years remaining either at the undergraduate or graduate level, you can apply for entry in the Air Force's 2-year ROTC program, offered on college campuses all across the country. If you qualify, you'll receive a $100 a month, nontaxable subsistence allowance. And on graduating, you'll receive an officer's commission in the Air Force. Also, the Air Force is offering hundreds of scholarships in the Air Force ROTC 2-year program payin~ full tuition; lab expenses; incidental fees; a textbook allowance and the same $100 each month, tax free. For more information, mail in the coupon today. Or, call 800-631-1972 toll free." Enroll in the Air Force ROTC, and get your future off the ground. 'In New Jersey caliS00-962-2803 
r-U~.:I;-F~R~E-;~~~1;0-;;;C;----------------2:NR-w2"1 . DIRECTORATE OF ADVERTISING (RSAV)
I

[ RANDOLPH AIR FORCE BASE, TEXAS 78148 I Please send me more information on Air Force ROTC Z-year program. 
I Name DateofBinh_Sex_ 
II Address;____________ 
1 I Ctty State'----L'P-­
L 
f DateofGraduatio Colleges . 
I Soc. Sec.#=---=-----=--=----=----=--::--------,:-:----­
__J_____F_!nd_y_!)~l!_~s~~'!..~!.J!!e.!!'.Mt:.J!l!.C!.!l.QJC~---...&..--­
The Staff: 
Nite Editor: Dan Barrett Assistant Nite Editor: Elizabeth Hall Headlines: Kenny Kampman, Tom Kane 
United Way campaign to 

begin at ND 
The University of Notre Dame has opened its United Way Campaign with an all-out effort to obtain 100 per cent participation by all members of the faculty, ad­ministration and staff. Proceeds from the annual campus program are added to the St. Joseph County totals. 
Under the leadership of Edward 
J. Murphy, professor of law, the Notre Dame campaign this year is attempting to raise $42,000. 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, 
C.S.C., president, has joined Revs. 
Edmund P. Joyce, executive vice 
president, and Jerome J. Wilson, 
vice president for finance, in a 
request to members of the faculty, 
administration and staff to give a 
fair share of their salaries to 
support 30 community agencies in 
the South Bend area. 
Associate chairmen of the 
campus program are Dr. Kenneth 
Lauer, faculty; Leo M. Corbaci, 
administration; and Joseph F. 
O'Brien, staff. In meetings with 
their groups this week they 
reminded employees of the wide 
range of services offered by 
community agencies that are 
available and used by individuals 
working at Notre Dame and living 
in the area. 
A renewed effort will be made to gain participation in the campaign by the 8,600-member student body through direct mail and sale of shamrock pins at home football games. 
Alumni receive progress report 
(continued from pag. 1) 
able to appreciate what types of 
students have the best chances of 
acceptance at Notre Dame." 
St. Miriam's "progress report on 
coeducation" was the primary 
subject of the duration of the 
evening. 
In it she reviewed the recom­
mendations of the Advisory 
Committee for Coeducation which 
met extensively last spring. She 
thencommentedupon the extent of 
university response to the 
recommendations. Sr. Miriam 
went on to report the progress of. 
the coed program in terms of 
activities and interaction. 
"A new ND is in formation," she 
claimed. "We have not abandoned 
tradition--in no sense have we done 
that--but Tevye in Fiddler on 
tht' Roof we are ailowing for the 
evolution of tradition in ways 
appropriate to the evolution of the 
times. We are echoing Newman's 
words that "to live is to change; to 
be perfect is to have changed of­
ten." ND has a long standing 
tradition of excellence--excellence 
in every area. I suggest that it is in 
the name of that tradition that 
women are now at ND." 
She stated that the implications 
of having 1800-2000 ND un­
dergraduate women was far 
reaching. "While they are im­
plications of excellence, they are 
also implications for a new ND 
tradition, and they touch every 
aspect of what ND is and will be . from the newest freshman to the oldest living alumnus; from an .inevitable change of curricular stress to a reproportioned use of buildings from ND's playing a vital part in the top-grade for­mation of Christian women to the lively question of whether setting, ratios at all is discriminating." 
Saturday morning the Executive 
s~!'ion of the Alumni Board met 
an~ reviewed a revised copy of the 
constitution. It is now pending 
rati'ficaion. 

-
the observer Tuesday, October 3, 1972
8 
•



Dillon IS still "Big Red'' 
the day's star, rushing for 82 yards scoring.
by Stan llrankar and catching passes that totaled Stanford X, Grace o 
Dillion and Morrissey another 89 yards. The winners limited Grace to strengthened their holds on Senior Joe Holzmer got the first only one first down, with that rPpeating as the premier clubs on score on a four yard drive off coming on a penalty. Stanford campus, as Interhall Football tackle. QB Kirk Miller capped a 15 couln 't come through with the openPd its 1972 season Sunday play, 65 yard drive (every play on necessary points till the third afternoon. Hefty defenses the ground) with a three yard period, when quarterback George highlighted the day's activities, scoring scamper, and Breen added Packer combined with end Mike 
with six of the seven scheduled the final two scores on touchdown Pehlman on a 35 yard touchdown contests ending in shutout vic-aerials of 18 yards from Miller, and bomb. The same combination tories. Dillion :w. Alumni 0 :l4 yards from freshman Tim clicked on the extra point throw to 
Th£' Rig Red look as destructive give Stanford the triumph.
Puntirelli. 

as t>Vl'r. and coach Mike Caulfield Off-Campus ll. Pangborn-Fisher 0 
Rrl'l'n-Phillips 22, Flanner 0

isn't complaining. "We made B-P combined a crushing Though 0-C also held the losers rPlatively no mistakes--not an defense with their veterans on to a single first down for the game, intt•rception or fumble, and vir­offense to take a half game edge they likewise didn't get on the 
tually no missPd assignments," the scoreboard until midway through
over idle Keenan in the League

sPcond-year tutor commented. Three race. the third quarter, Fullback Mike 
<'raig Tigh notched the first Middle guard Bill Henshaw led Walsh hit pay dirt from the three I>illon score. racing 35 yards for the defense that forced five yard line, culminating a 52 yardth£' tally. Tigh paced Big Red ball Flanner as he
turnovers, recc­victory drive. 
carriers with 101 yards in seven Farlt'y 1:1, Lyons 0
vered a pair of fumbles, and Dave

('arries. Bob Walls then took over The combination of Carl Oberzut 
BPrtke and Lynn Hebel each in­tlw scoring duties, rolling in for the tercepted passes. Frosh back Tim to Harry Bigham clicked twice on linal three touchdowns on runs of Foristel caused the final mistake long scoring plays, as Farley 

to and 15 yards, and a 12 yard pass was in­their season's victory
by the High Risers, and £>quailedlrom senior quarterback Randy strumental in holdiing the losers to output of a year ago. The bombs 
Staskik. Walls, Tigh, and Jack only three first downs. went for 40 and 85 yards, with John Licata each added an extra point Horan adding an extra point
Ed Klumnk raced in from theconversion to cap the Dillion five for the first B-P score, and Bill conversion to seal the verdict. 

scoring. 
Cleva followed in the second Holy Cross 7, Sorin 2 
1\lorrissl'y 21i, St. Joseph 0 The Cross contained Sorin for
period, hauling in a 25 yard TD

Last season's runners-up, the less than 50 yards in total offense in
pass from quarterback Jeff Burda. 

1\larauders again rolled out their gaining their opening victory. Pat
Bruce Jirole, signal-<:aller last

dPvastating running attack in Bathon scored the winning touch­
season but now shifted to halfback,coasting to an easy opening game broke loose for a 60 yard scamper down on a three yard run in the 

win. Tailback Paul Breen rated as second period.
and extra point run to round out the 

Late goals trip NO booters, 3-1 
Purdue, 3-1. The defeat left their and kept the ball moving with by Mark Nishan record at an unimpressive 1-4, but some flashy passing. Zoske stated, neither the loss nor the record has "We definitely outplayed them in 
This past Saturday the Irish dimmed the enthusiasm of the the first half but in the second half football team feasted on the players or their coach. we just couldn't catch fire." Boilermakers of Purdue; un­Coach Arno Zoske felt the team According to the coach all the 
fortunately the same can't be said played excellent soccer for the goals scored by Purdue were Cor the Irish soccer team. first forty minutes of the game. preventaOle. The score was tied 1­The hooters lost a tough game to They played good, tight defense 1 going into the last two minutes of the game but quickly the Boiler­makers pushed in two goals. TheND ruggers win sixth first came as a crowd developed in front of the Irish goal. A break­down in defense plus a screening of
The Notre Dame rugby team the second half by registering four the goalie led to the score. The 
('balked up its sixth victory of the points--their only scoring of the final goal for Purdue came on a 
sPason and fourth in a row day. After this, however, the deflection with seconds left to play. 
Saturday as the Irish defeated match turned into a hard-fought On Friday the team travels to 
John Carroll University, 12-4. defensive battle, and the Wisconsin at Parkside for a Tht' game was the first of the numerous temper flare-ups were tournament. It will be an st>ason for John Carroll, who had an indication of the intensity of the elimination match with the hooters 
spmt three weeks preparing for game. drawing Parkside as their first thPir mPeting with ND. Apparently Late in the contest, John Carroll ,.OI!J>Onent. it wasn't enough. threatened to score, but the Irish The Irish dominated play defense stiffened and protected 
ND leers open
throughout the game, and only an ND's 12-4 lead. 
unusual number of peralties In the "B" game the Irish 
against them kept the final score ruggers defeated John Carroll by a fall drills. 
as dose as it was. score of 26-0. From the opening
Notre Dame opened their whistle the outcome was never in Notre Dame's hockey team scoring in the first half when Jim doubt as the Irish took the play to began drills Monday in 
Carr scored after receiving a fine John Carroll and completely preparation for its fifth varsity pass from Joe Hafner. The entire dominated the match. season and second VVestern Irish serum contributed to the Mike Regan and Terry Collegiate Hockey Association 
campaign.
score by moving the ball on a Kadyszewski scored two trys each Coach Charles "Lefty" Smithseries of good passes before Carr for ND and Dave Simpson added a put his skaters through an hour­carried into the end zone. single try on a 40-yard breakaway. 
and-half workout, stressingI<:d O'Connell· successfully John Mcintyre added six points to skating skills and fundamentals.
convPrted after the try to give the the Irish cause on three con­Most of the Irish looked tired
Irish a (i-0 lead. versions. The "B" team's record after the brisk opening ses!'ion, but Notre Dame doubled their score 
is now 3-Q. Smith didn't feel that their fatigue 
minutes later when Herb Giorgio Notre travels Ann from of con­
Dame to resulted a lackrambled 30 yards to tally ND's Arber this weekend to take on the ditioning.
st'cond try. O'Connell's kick was powerful Michigan Wolverines. "This is an average type of good. and the Irish left the field at IThe Irish then return home for an situation," Smith said after half-time with a 12-0 lead. October 14th meeting with the practice. "This is their first ex­
.John Carroll fought back early in University of Kentucky. tended ice time. We've got to get them accustomed to being on the ice <!gain. 
"We always stress fundamentals early in the year," Smith con­tinued. "It's necessary, even with a veteran team like this."
... 
Sixteen letterman return from last season's club which compiled a 14-20 record overall and finished eighth in the WCHA with a 10-18 mark. 
Twenty-three players skated with the varsity Monday. The junior varsity and freshen held a workout of their own after the varsity session. 
The varsity roster: Goalies ---Mark Kronholm, Chris Cathcart. 
Defensemen ---Bill Green (co­capt.), Mark Steinborn Bill Nyrop, Steve Curry, Les Larson, Ric Schafer, and Mike Bonk. 
Forwards ---Paul Regan (co­captain l, John Noble, Pat Conroy, Larry Israelson, Ian Williams, D'Arcy Keating, Mike Dunphy, Eddie Bumbacco, Ray Delorenzi, Mike Tardani, Ricky Cunha, Cliff 
yl'ar . Masion and Bob Howe.
• 

by John Wick 

The Notre Dame harriers suf­fered their second defeat of the season at the hands of the Big Ten Cross Country Champions, Michigan State, last weekend. The final score was Michigan State 20, Notre Dame 35. 
All of the honors did not go to the Spartans, however,as Irish captain Dan Dunne covered the six mile course in very good time to capture the first place position. Michigan runners took the next five places, followed closely by Notre Dame's Mary Hill, who finished seventh. Other top finishers for the Irish 

Mikt' f'rt>aney. tight end 
Grid awards 
Tight end Mike Creaney, who caught five passes, good for 114 yards and a touchdown and did a fine job of blocking in Saturday's victory over Purdue, was presented the game ball for his performance against the Boiler­makers as the Irish conducted their second awardceremonyof the season Monday afternoon on Cartier Field. 
Dave Drew, Notre Dame's senior center, was given the of­fensive player of the game awards and senior defensive tackle and co­captain Greg Marx received defensive player of the game honors. 
Prep squad players Greg Szatko, a defensive tackle and halfback Chuck Kelly, who will have to sit out the rest of the season because of a knee injury, received awards for their help in preparing the first units for Purdue. 
Stars for outstanding plays were given to linebackers Jim Musuraca and Jim O'Malley, defensive tackle Steve Niehaus, and Marx. Offensive tackle and co-captain John Dampeer and defensive end George Hayduk were awarded two stars apiece. 

were Jim Hurt and sophomore 
Mike Gahagan. 
Despite the loss, last Friday's meet was viewed as "en­couraging" by both the squad and the coaching staff. Coach Alex Wilson has recently increased the weekly workouts from seventy-five to one-hundred miles, a sizeable boost, but the coach felt that it was necessary to increase the strength of the team. 
Wilson feels that the team is now going in the direction that it should go in and he is quite pleased with the results of the increased training. Friday's meet was, in effect, a confidence building meet and the team ran far more aggressively than they ever have. 
Concurrent with the upgraded training program has been a significant increase in the com­petitive spirit of the team. Previously low beccause of the loss to Northwestern a week ago, much of the squad's enthusiasm stems from the leadership of Dan Dunne. Dunne has been the first Irish finisher in all three meets this season and has won two of those. His determination and enthusiasm are evident both in practice and competition. 
The harriers are idle this weekend and are taking the op­portunity to prepare for the Notre Dame Invitational Meet which will be held on the Burke Memorial golf course October 13th. It will be the first home meet for the Irish this season. 
Club football 

The presidents of the Pittsburgh and Cleveland Clubs are interested in forming a "geographical" club touch football league. Any geographical clubs desiring to participate are asked to call either Jim Nowalk (8371) or Gary Metalonis (17741. 
lnterhall swim 
meet slated 

The Interhall Athletics office will 
hold a freshman swimming meet 
on Wednesday , October 11th. at 
7:00p.m. in the Rockne Building 
pool. 
The meet will be held in two divisions -men's and women's ­and will feature competition of 5 diving and 7 swimming events. 
Hall representatives must turn in a list of entries to Mr. Stark, the swimming coach, the day before the meet, and divers must also turn in their list of dives to Mr. Stark before the meet. 
A contestant may swim only for the hall in which he <or her) resides, and further information may be obtained by calling either Coach Stark (6222) or the Interhall Office (6100). 






