
it's winter again: chance of snow tonight, low around 20...cloudy, windy 


Vol. VI, No. 85 of notre dame -st. mary's Thursday, February 25, 1972 
The campaign trails continue 
Caruso,  campaigning  in  various  halls,  
criticised  statements  of  ates  Paul  
Dzeidzic  and  Floyd  
Kezele  printed  in  
yesterday's  Ob­ 
serve•·.  Refering  to  
Kezele's  call  for  a  
"radical change" in  
social  life,  Caruso  
said,  "Some  of  teh  
changes  they're  
suggesting  are  a  
little  too  radical."  
His running mate,  1 ~  
Bob  Long,  also  
criticized  Dzeidzic's  
proposals of action to  Caruso:  proposed changes  

Caruso challenges opponents to debate 
by Joe Abell 
Gary Caruso formally challenged his op­ponents to an open debate last night in Sorin Hall. 
"I'd like to see Bob, Paul, Floyd, or any other candidate that wants, to go over to the Engineering Auditorium and present their platform," he said. 
'"I'll even pay the 25-dollar rent fee for the Auditorium" he added emphatically. 
take to force the "too radical" University's hand on various issues. "We don't talk about flushing toilets or leaving lights on­that's something the students can get into on a more individual basis. We want -to get all the students together," he said. 
While he talked in Holy Cross Hall, Caruso's staff released another investigatory report, this time dealing with University investments. He charged in the report that the University did not uphold Chtistian moral standards by holding stock in various companies allegedly associated with polluting the environment. 
His report, specifically named Standard Oil Company, Firestone Tires, and DuPont Chemical Company, and said that his sources were dated October 31, 1969. He said that efforts were being made to obtain later, revised lists. 
A proposal to be presented to Brother Kiernan Ryan concerning refrigerator fines was also released by Caruso's campaign office. In his proposal, Caruso suggested that all refrigerators over five cubic feet should be prohibited, and that the University after in­vestigations should recommend "two or three" different types of small refrigerators to be used in the halls. 
Caruso met opponent Floyd Kezele, in Morrissey and Caruso expressed disappointment at Kezele's refusal and declared that he would debate with any candidate at any time anywhere. 
Caruso denounced his opponents canpaigns as "concerned only with their image." Long commented, "We don't have any real reputation to protect, so we really don't care if you like us as people, just as long as you like what we're trying to do." 
In Flanner Hall, Caruso was confronted with the issue of the Gay Liberation Front on campus, and was asked if he would support various ef­forts and activities of gays if elected. Caruso, who later described the question as "totally unexpected" said that he would "discriminate against no one." 
"It wouldn't be fair to refuse support to the gay people and then turn around and help out the Blacks," he said. 
Caruso concluded his talks with promises of looking into the shuttle busses and renovation of LaFortune basement. "We have appointments with the people in charge . and we'll get some answers," he said. 

Schlosser: Student power has two parts 
by John Abowd Observer Assistant Editor 
Emphasizing that student power consisted of two elements--political power and cultural ac­tion--Joe Schlosser and Lincoln Soldati continued their mixed media camapign into the second day of the SBP race. 
The unique Schlosser-Soldati campaign ap­proach whhch includes a traveling guitarist, noonday huddle concerts and an upcoming "trucking movie" drew crowd that averaged fifteen in Sorin, Walsh, and Cavanaugh. 
Schlosser described the operation of the University as a corporate structure. This means the work "from an efficiency viewpoint cutting corners to get what they want." 
The corporate philosophy, Schlosser argues, means that students must organize around common needs that are not effectively met by an efficient Uniiversity." 
"Education is not a production process. Since students don't run the University, they must organize to strike a balance between personal education and efficiency," he added. _ 
The two off-campus residents outlined a method of implementing student power based on the parietal issue: 
--Student government encourages each hall to develop its own rules without considering University guidelines. 
--The already implemented rules would then be 
presented to the Trustees. --If the trustees reject these rules Schlosser and Soldati would tell the Trustees to enforce them personally. -The SC would support any hall that enforced its 
own rulls. 

Solda ti described the team's plans for the Student Center, taking student control of the center a "must." 
"The student center is dead,.. he said, "nothing happens there-there is nothing to do there, nothing to get in­volved in." 
The team plans to 
So..._tf:  "student center Is  confront  the  
dead"  Lafortune  
management  by scheduling  a  band  to  play  

Monday night that Br. Gorch, center manager, has banned. 
They refused to release the name of the band. 
Soldati stressed that "spontaneity" was the essence of their campaign and would charac­terize their approach to changing the cultural atmosphere. 
Specific suggestions included: --scheduling less expensive bands for more weekends rather than "spending $30,000 for Chicago and having nothing on the other weekends." --using student talent by offering them exposure in the student center, Huddle, and Stepan Center. 
Soldati suggested that the "unity and sense of common interests" developed in this manner could be "channeled into political confrontation when an issue arose." 
One issue which both candidates thought was "definitely an area of confrontation" was coed dorms. . _They called for Student Government with the consent of the halls involved, to plan a coed dorm. 
"We aren't necessarily saying that we should have coed dorms next year but we want to provide the ground work so that the Student Government that succeeds will not have to start from scratch the following year. 

Luken advocates 'referendum govt' 
by Mike O'Hare 
Hoping to "get back to student referendum 
government," SBP candidate Chuck Luken 
revealed last night that he is conducting a survey 
to determine the attitudes of Notre Dame 
students on campus issues. 
Luken said he planned to circulate the survey 
among 1500 students on the North Quad. 
Questions on the survey will deal with such 
subjects as co-ed dorms, a student on the 
Board of Trustees, And B-grades 
and the effectivenes~ i~ 
representing the students. Results of the survey will be released today. 
The Luken-Spak ticket also has plans to "streamline the structure of student government." They advocate operating student government through the offices of the SBP-SBVP, the 


Hall Presidents Luken: streamline student Council, and an government elected 11 man-woman body. Under this plan, 
the Senate and the SLC would be abolished and be replaced by this 11 member body, which would pass on the budget and be in charge of 
services such as the Ombudsman. 
Stating that "I will not make promises that I cannot keep," Luken said he hoped to ac­complish his goals by "mobilizing the students and mixing diplomacy with pressure." He cited a bill before the Indiana legislature which would require that all state schools have a student on the Board of Trustees. He feels that if this legislation is approved, it would create a precedent which the students could pressure the University to follow. 
Luken also said he advocated altering the current Pre-Med structure, which currently requires all majors to get a recommendation from one person. He would rather see a com­mittee formed to give recommendations for medical school. He said that this system is used by many schools and called it "fairer" than the Notre Dame system. 
Renovation of LaFortune Student Center is 
also high on Luken's list of priorities. He would 
use an expected appropriation of $250,000 from 
the Trustees to improve the student center. 
Luken also remarked that only Gary Caruso had accepted his challenge to debate "any and all SBP candidates." 
The ND election committee will 
meet at 12:30 pm to randomly 
order names on the election 
ballot and consider any 
challenges. 
The meeting will be in the 
Student Government office. 
Page 2 THE OBSERVER. Thursday, February 25, 1972 

Sherrod advocates more student authority 
SBVP candidate Mike Sherrod, running mate of Paul Dziedzic, said last night that students need the "power to say 'no"' in order to counter the power of the Trustees and administrators. With this "student authority" would finally achieve "hall autonomy." 
Sherrod advocated in Pangborn Hall, the creation of an Academic Grievance Board, composed of both students and faculty, and which would have the final say on academic problems. He, also, favored putting pressure on the ad­ministration to get students hired in managerial ·positions in the bookstore, for example. This, he felt, would give the business students valuable experience. 
In both Pangborn and Holy Cross Halls, Sherrod defended the fact that he and Dziedzic were not running with a SMC ticket. Sherrod claimed that Dziedzic had worked with all the can­didates for SMC-SBP, except Maureen Rogers. Sherrod said that, as Sophomore class president, he had worked with Rogers. Furthermore, he felt that if Dziedzic and himself at­tached themselves to one can­didate, it could create friction if the SMC set wasn't elected. 
Sherrod defended his plan for a Forum and Legislative Assembly. He felt that the section leader was suited for the role of the Forum, because, "He has finger on the pulse of the section." Sherrod stressed that the representative nature of the Forum would be a built-in­safeguard to ensure that con­frontation doesn't occur, except on issues where "everybody was really gung-ho". 
Sherrod commented that, if elected, he and Dziedzic would press the Administration for a commitment that the fines to be imposed on electric devices, would not be permanent. He would also ask that the money for the fines only go towards rewiring. 
Sherrod claimed that the Administration had not suf­ficiently looked into the problems involved with the admission of Notre Dame women next year. He gave as example, the special problems the infirmary would face with women; He also said that if Notre Dame was to impose a different set of regulations on women, such as a different set of parietal hours, Notre Dame would be "discriminatory" and guilty of "sexism." 
Concerning LaFortune Sherrod remarked, "It's not much of a student center." He felt that, "LaFortune needs renovation," but didn't specify any particular approach. 


Higgins stresses media usage 
INTERVIEWS 
SUMMER EMPLOYMENT 
by Mike Baum 
In his second day of cam­paigning for SBP, candidate Bob Higgins continued to stress the necessity of an active, informed student body to obtain results. 
Covering several halls, often speaking door to door, Higgins expanded upon his concepts of "making use of the media" and student activism_ 
Claiming "People will rally behind a strong leader if they know what's going on," Higgins again promised full, via news conferences. of the Observer and WSND. 
Higgins stated that he feels that a lack of communication bet­ween student government and the students has been evident in the past, and cited this as one of the major failings of the Barkett administration. 
"There is a good relationship between student government, the Administration, the Trustees, this they (Barkett's people) have accomplished, but the students were kind of left out," he said, adding, "There were talented people on the cabinet last year that were not used," and promised this would not happen this year. 
Higgins laid special emphasis on the use of "student oower." Paralleling his running mate, Pogge, Higgins cited as an example what he claimed to be a forthcoming HPC proposal to declare "party rooms" already existent in many halls, as "private rooms" to allow the use of alcoholic beverages within University regulations, which, he feels, would be a great aid to social life at Notre Dame. 
Stated Higgins, "We're going to back this proposal, present a 
logical argument. We're going to 
use our influence in the Ad­
ministration." He said that if the 
University refused "without a 
good rational argument" they 
would try to organize 
simultaneous campus-wide 
parties in these rooms to 
"pressure" the point. 
Similarly on the issue of coed 
dorms, Higgins reported that he 
had talked with University 
President Theodore M. Hesburgh 
on the subject, and quoted Rr. 
Hesburgh as saying, "talking 
about a coed dorm is a non­
negotiable demand," and that a 
coed dorm was "a dead issue." 
Higgins responded that, "This 
is an argument we cannot accept, 
it's not a rational argument." He 
said, "We're going to propose a 
coed dorm. If we don't get some 
rational reasons why we can't 
have a coed dorm, then we'll 
move some people out, move 
some people in, we'll make a coed 
dorm." 
Admitting that, "If we don't 
have the students behind us, we 
can't do this," Higgins stressed 
the need for such general student 
activism. "We think our cam­
paign is just a little bit different 
than everybody else in that we're 
appealing to you the student not 
just as voters but as backers. We 
need you not just next Tuesday, 
but for all of next year." 
In response to questions, 
Higgins agreed with SBP can­
didate Paul Dziedzic's idea for a 
food coop, saying, "I think any 
kind of a food coop is a good idea 
<especially for the Off-Campus 
students l -I don't know how , feasible it is in LaFortune." 
On Dziedzic's proposal to replace the Senate with a "forum" of section leaders, 
Frosh Dance II Tomorrow Night featuring "The Impacts" LaFortune8:30-12 * Ballroom $1  
The Observer Is published daily during the college semester eccept vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St: Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S8 per semester from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556, Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind. 46556.  

JOHNSON WAX however, Higgins said, "I dont 
Monday, March 6, 1972 
see that as feasible." He pointed 
Juniors in Ch.E., M.E. and M.E.I.O.
to the failure of past attempts to get the Senate to abolish itself, 
For Engineering Trainees and the general impossibility of 
Location: Racine, Wisconsin
getting a student referendum since, "they don't give a damn 
Interested students may sign summer schedule
about the Senate." 
in Room 207, Main Bldg., week of February 28_. 


....------------------------~-----~~ 



E OBSERVER 

Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community 
Thursday, February 25, 1972 P~ge 3 

More on rooms 
choices with previous residents,The HLC agreed last night to and called for a list of each hall's accept a proposal submitted by selection policies.

Walsh and Badin presidents Dave Although all the halls did notFromm and Buz Imhoff regar­accept the entire proposal, thereding the rights of misplaced were no deviations which causedresidents. The proposal asked great concern. Pangbornhall councils to examine room President Denny O'Leary told ofselection procedure. 
his hall's plan to accept new

Particularly it asked to 
residents in half-sections. Thisdisallow room freezes, offer 10-15 would enable them to becomepositions in one section of each acclamated to the new hall'shall for transferred students, community while retaining oldallow equal individual room ·friendships. 

Members of the Ad Hoc Housing Committee set up by Father Chambers C.S.C. to ad­

SLC reviews vetos, judicial 
vise him on each hall's available

system and merger in 
quarters expressed optimism.

last night's sessions 
Buz Imhoff, one of six members, said misplaced Badin residents who will make hall choices next week should present "no earth­shaking problems." The com­mittee will submit its information to Father Chambers when it has finished gathering figures from each hall. 

SLC 
deliberates on 

veto po'Wer 
After a hot-tempered debate on the legalities of the proposal, the survey conducted by the committee, 55 per cent of hall judicial board Student Life Council referred a student-initiated motion to give it chairmen rated their performance as inefficient. there was some override power on vetos by the Vice-President for Student Mfairs to qualification on that rating. the Steering Committee. Before sending the "veto override" legislation to the Steering 
Presented by Rich Urda, South Quad representative with 10 minutes Committee, Fr. Blantz argued, "The possibility of an appeal to the SLC remaining in the monthly Council meeting, the bill would give the SLC for every little decision I make everyday would make the SLC a full­
power to override decisions made by the Vice President for Student time job." In the statement, he referred to his responsibility over Affairs. solicitations on campus and Student use of certain buildings. 
Administration SLC representatives disputed the legalities of the Organizationally, the SLC is within his jurisdiction. motion contending it was illegal because it was a substitute for a related proposal by students. Administrators also felt it would Argument on Kezele's proposal centered on Fr. Burtchaell's 
countermand the Student Mfairs' Vice-President's authority vested authority to issue the directive and the status of the SMC legislators on by the University president and Board of Trustees. William Eagan, the SLC during the merger limbo. 
chairman, however, overruled both questions. Vice-Chairman Kezele debated with the Council that Fr. Burtchaell At the late afternoon meeting, Representatives also defeated a was not empowered to make this decision. If accepted by the SLC, it 
Floyd Kezele-sponsored motion that the Board of Trustees change SLC would set precedent, since directives have previously come only from by-laws to continue to seat three SMC representatives with voting Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, university president, or the Board of priviledges. In a roll call vote, Kezele's proposal, supported by him­Trustees as a whole. self, Dave Tushar, John Barkett, SBP, Buz Imhoff, Jerry O'Connor, A rider attached to the Kezele bill by Mr. Edward Cronin to give 
and Professor Peter Thornton, lost 15-6. nearby Bethel College the same priviledges as Kezele proposed for 
In other business, the SLC heard reports from its subcommittees. SMC was also defeated by a voice vote. Mandated by the Steering Committee to evaluate the university "As Fr. Hesburghsiad, we should keep open every possible bridge," judicial system for the March 18-20 Board of Trustees' meeting, the contended Kezele. Buz Imhoff, another South Quad representative, Rules and Regulations Committee presented a detailed study. In a agreed: "It's hard for me to turn my back on St. Mary's. 
Welsh terms legislature 'ineffective' 
spends most of his time there and session since both were con­Matt Welsh, currently a can­works the most there, then he tending for the Republicandidate for governor of Indiana, 

gave his views on subjects should be entitled to vote there. gubernatorial nomination and ranging from the present Generally speaking, students each tended to negate the good of "ineffective" state legislature to have very few problems in the other. In a nutshell, the the recent veto of the 18-year old meeting legal residency legislature accomplished little of 
requirements." consequence."

rights bill in a press conference Several students also queried Questioned about~ Gov. Whit­before a sparse crowd yesterday 
afternoon in the Fiesta Lounge of Welsh about his presidential comb's recent veto of the 18-year 
LaFortune Student Center. favorite. Welsh responded that Old Rights bill, Welsh replied, "it 
his posture is "one race at a should have been signed."
"The drinking provision was time," since many of his friends 

only an incidental portion of the The press conference ended
and close supporters were in­

bill. If 18-year olds can vote, I with some of Welsh's reflections
terested in several of the can­

don't see why they can't drink. If on a more equitable state tax, his 
didates.

they have the responsibilities, preference towards a ticket for why shouldn't they also have the Throwing the.. conference both governor and It. governor, a privileges?" criticism of the Indiana Public
immediately into a question-and­Welsh also gave his opinion as answer period, the former Welfare Dept., and a description to whether out..,f-state college governor of Indiana (1960-64) of Gov. Whitcomb's blatant 
was first asked his impression of

students should be allowed to disregard of public welfare this 
the current state legislateure.

vote in Indiana state elections. term. Welsh Cright): built in problems for Indiana ''If a student mentally decides 
"They have certain built-in the college is his home, that he problems because the leaders of 

Pa 4 THE OBSERVER Thursday, Februar 25, 1972 


Got an Aerie feeling Every Day? To be more graphic, buy one of these RCA
Get the Kinks out of Acute 

albums below, 5.98 list, 
Schizqflrenia Blues 
NOW ONLY 
Before Papa John Creach tells you the Janitor 
Drives a Cadillac And calls the Sunfighter out of China to Hush-Hush the Siegal -Schwall Band and 
Jump Into the Fire with Nilsson. 


ncn VICTOR
·: ler<le 
John Denver 




SHOP WEEKDAYS 1 0 to 1 0 . SUNDAYS 12 to 7 
NcKinley Sq. 501 North Hickory Rd. 

Thursday,. February 25, 1972 THE OBSERVER Page 11 
world briefs 
(c) 1972 New York Times 

Peking -President Nixon and Premi~r Chou En-~ai of_ China met again Thursday, and the President contmued to praise Chma and her ballet. her gymnasts, her food, her civilization an~ her ~ote~tial !~r development. China, in turn, conti!l~ed to give .Nixo~ s VISit prominence in her newspapers and televisiOn. The President IS to tour the forbidden city today. 
Washington -Although Japan ignored United States opposition in sending an official mission to North ,Vietnam this month, State Department and Japanese sources sa1d, . Japan compromised by changing the dates of the mission slightly to avoid embarrassing President Nixon during his China visit. 
Danbury, Conn.-The Rev. Daniel Berrigan, a major symbol in the antiwar movement, left the Federal Prison in Danbury, ~onn., on parole after serving 18 months of a three-year term for burmng draft records. 
on campus today 
3:30, 7 & 9 -flick , last grasp film series, loneliness of a a long distance runner, carroll hall, $.75. 
8:00-folk concert, -chuck and mary perrin, Iafortune ballroom, $.75. 
7:45-hockey -irish vs. michigan, ace, fanatics $1.00. 
Dziedzic invokes'convictions' 
what's convenient. They have tr 
Calling for a "politics of con­stand on what's right. It's the viction rather than a politics of role of a leader to show he has a concession" SBP hopeful Paul mind and a will," he continued. Dziedzic campaigned door to Dziedzic maintained that one 
door in Badin, Dillon, Stanford, basic problem is the ad­Flanner, and Grace halls last 
ministration's desire to create a night. "Notre Dame man". Another "Student leaders have to start problem is "students who have standing on convictions, not on let the administration get away 
i!t===M~~=k=====c;;;;;~~~~;====;;:;===ll~
I Humphrey 
Students for Humphrey an­nounced yesterday an all out effort to nominate Hubert Humphrey at the Mock Democratic Convention, April 24­
27. It is likely that Humphrey will enter the Indiana primary and we will do our best to bring him to the campus, Chairman Rick LaSalvia said. 
"It appears that the convention is being taken over by a small group of Lindsay people who do not constitute a representative Democratic party. Most of the small states are already con­trolled by this faction and their aim seems to be to take control of the party away from the people. If students want a truly national candidate for president, they should get behind Hubert Humphrey. Few leaders in the history of the Senate can match the legislative record of Hum­phrey and no democrat appeals to a larger cross section of America. Candidates like McGovern and Lindsay have vary limited appeal outside of the urban areas and completely alienate the average American. Hopefully with the student body behind Humphrey, it isn't too late to work for a "democratic;" convention," he added. 
Students are urged to sign up as delegates for Humphrey at the dining halls during the rest of the week and any students interested in becoming campaign managers should call Rick at 1177. 
McGovern ~ 
The Students for McGovern have no intention of slighting the Mock Democratic Convention as reported Tuesday, according to AI Cramer the organization's chairman. 
Cramer said the McGovern backers will make a concerted effort to have the senator . nominated by the convention, and 
have his platform approved. 
McGovern's platform is "the 
only platform which deals with 
specifics rather than loose 
generalities," Cramer said. 
The Students for McGovern organization will however, devote the greater part of its time to the far more important business of winning the Indiana primary. This weekend, the organization will conduct a petition drive in South Bend and Gary in order to help get Senator McGovern's name on the ballot in Indiana. The organization will also help out in the Illinois, Wisconsin, Ohio and Michigan primaries as the campaign progresses. 
Any interested persons are urged to attend the next meeting, which is to be held on Sunday, Febrauary 27, at 4 p.m. in the south lounge of Regina Hall at SMC. For further information call Cramer at 1363, or come by the temporary headquarters in -m B-P. 
with paternalism. I'm sick and tired of trying to get concessions out of 'daddy' " he said. 
In Dziedzic's opinion, a third problem is the student body mentality. "We're just thinking of parietals as being in­convenient, not as an insult. We have to saythat we are men and as men we have the right to make such decisions for ourselves," he opined. 
"We have to stop student problems such as vandalism and cheating. These are committed by students against students. Someone has to stand up and say its wrong." Students should "expect to be challenged if I'm elected," he added. 
On co-education, Dziedzic criticized the administration. He charged administrators with "playing games with the lives of guys here and women who will be coming in. The only thing they have done is to dump 325 guys out of dorms. There has been no otherpreparation.What about security? Rectors? What about women educators? What about the attitude?" 
"All options must be left open," Dziedzic stressed, "but if all the channels are closed, I would move for a confrontation. Such things as boycotting the bookstore, the Huddle, or not paying our $50 advance enrollment on time. If we have enough people who are willing to pay the penalty for standing up for their rights we can make something of a confrontation." 
The candidate also cited structural inadequacies present in student government. He proposed a forum of section leaders and hall leaders who would discuss basic student problems, with student govern­ment officials. 
According to Dziedzic, forum participants would select some of their members to sit on a legislative assembly, a replacement for the senate as student government legislative body. 
FIND OUT YOURSELF WHY EVERYONE'S TALKING ABOUT· 

ON THE WATERFRONT 
with Marlon Brar.Jo 
Fri. &Sat. 7-9-11 

Badin Vintage Cinema 
·wATCH ROLLER DERBY CH. 28 T.V. SAT. 2:00 
011 JOLTERS li.L~ vs.
ei1Jy'lf.OO EAGLES p;M. 
MONDAY FEB. 28th s:oo P.M. DAME ATHLETIC & CONVOCATION CENTER 
Bleaclltn -•••.-•••••••••• -••••• $2.00 Lo.,r Arena -• ~ • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • $3.00 Loge &Platftt1111 •••••••• --••••• S4JI 

T~eklll • lilt: IOTIE DA•• A.C.C. IOJ,·Sat. I It 5 
SL .Jtt l11k ant Bnncllts 
Fint llllk4aill OHict Only 

Last asp inema presents 
"Loneliness of a Long Distance Runner'' with Tom Courtenay Friday Carroll Hall 3:30, 7, 9 



Page 10 THE OBSERVER Thursday, February 25, 1972 
•

Krathaus, Irish swzm team seek records 
by Vic Dorr Gene is one of four double 
When a college coach tries to monogram winners on the team's recruit an athlete, a simple ex-main roster, and he is well able to change of letters usually won't do handle the pressure of being a the trick. But just such an ex-constant top finisher. 
ch.ange worked f~r Irish swim-"The idea is to make swim­mm~ coach De~ms Stark, when • ming fun. It's all psychological 
~e tned to recrmt. Gene Kratha~s om Seneca Htgh School, m 
Buffalo N.Y
• · . 
. Krathaus, who was mterested 
m .ND,. wrote a letter to ~e 
Umverstty • an~ Stark was qmck 
to follow up on tt. Tha~ was three 

years ago, and smce then 
Krathaus has become one of the 

biggest bargains ever discovered 
by the Notre Dame swimming 

program. 
The 6-1 junior, twice a high

school All American, is a two time monogram winner for the Irish tankers, and is a consistent winner for them in the shortest of the ''sprint" races-the 50 yards. 
"I've been swimming for about eight years," he said, "since I was about 12. And I've always been swimming the 50. I got into it during a meet in a park near my home. The race was part of a festival, or something, and I entered because everyone else did. I did all right in the race--I won it, in fact-and a lot of people who were watching thought I was a member of a regular club. I wasn't, but I was asked to join a local AAU group after that." 
Gene's efforts at Notre Dame have reflected his early success. He holds the Irish varsity record in the 50 (0:22.1), and is tied for the pool record with the same time. Currently, Krathaus is a regular first-place finisher. Last Saturday, in an 84-39 loss to Purdue, he was one of but two 
Insh swimmers to earn a blue ribbon (Jim Kane was the other.>. 
And during the two weeks preceding the Purdue meet, Krathaus scored two more wins in the 50-against St. Bonaven­ture and Wayne State. 
ND wrestlers and fencers on road 

Notre Dame's wrestling and fencing teams will be in action on the road this weekend. 
Unbeaten heavyweight Mike l<'anning leads the Irish wrestling forces into the NCAA regional tournament at the University of Cincinnati Friday and Saturday. The top three finishers in each weight class will qualify for the NCAA finals at Maryland in March. 
l<'anning, a 260-pound freshman from Tulsa, Okla., has one of the best records in the country, boasting a 20-o-1 slate that in­cludes 18 pins. Irish coach Terry Mather also indicated that Mike Martin <118, 10-9-0), Steve Moylan 026, 12-6), Ken Ryan <150, 13-6-U, Fritz Bruening 058, 
.4-1 l and possibly Rick Komar < 177. 10-7), will compete. 
Notre Dame's fencing team, now 10-2 after beating Michigan State, 18-9, and losing to Ohio State, 15-12, last weekend, meets Purdue in Lafayette on Friday and then faces Wisconsin and lllinois Saturday in Champaign. 
once you're on the starting block and worry or tension can get you
d .
own and rum your race. You 
owe it to the team " he continued "to work hard. A~d if you try a~ hard as you can, and stay in good shape, then you'll usually end up with the best outcome " 
· 
Kr.athaus will be the first to admtt that the Notre Dame swimmers weren't "too
ThincJads host 
West. Mich. 
by Vic Dorr 
Notre Dame's indoor track team will conclude its dual meet schedule this Saturday with a home appearance against Western Michigan University. 
The Irish runners, 2-1 on the season, need a win over WMU to be assured of a winning slate in one-on-one competition. ND downed Miami of Ohio and Ohio State earlier in the year, but the Irish were defeated by the Falcons from the Air Force Academy. 
Coach Alex Wilson's squad will be coming into Saturday's meet after a sixth-place finish in last weekend's Central Collegiate meet in Kalamazoo, Mich., and the Irish will be paced, as they were in the CC's. by frosh standouts Eric Penick and Greg Cortina. 
Cortina already ranks high nationally after recording a shot put toss of 60-10 at Kalamazoo, and Penick finished second in the 300-yard dash to heralded Ivory Crockett of Southern Illinois. 
But the Irish can depend on 
performers other than the two freshmen. They can depend on team captain Elio Polselli in the shot; the McMannon brothers, Tom and Mike, in the hurdle and jumping events, and Dave Bell, Dan Dunne, and Pat Holleran in the distance races. 
Western Michigan, though, is not without its own talent. The 
visitors will be led by Central Collegiate pole vault champion Larry Robards (16 and aquarter) and by miler Gary Harris (4:04.9). But this talent may not be enough. 
"They have a team that's been gradually built up," said Polselli, "and I don't think they even have any full scholarships for track. It should be a pretty easy meet. Personally, I want to do my best so I can qualify for the nationals _ and I've got to throw 58 feet to do that. 
"What we're really looking forward to is theiC4A'sin Prin­ceton next week. We've been pointing to that meet instead of to 
Western Michigan." 
The Irish will meet WMU at 
1:00 tomorrow afternoon in the ACC Fieldhouse. Tickets will be available at the gate. 
psyched" for their match with 
the Boilermakers last Saturday. 
But he is expecting a turnabout 
this weekend, when the ND team 
meets Northern Illinois and 
Marshall U. in a tri-meet in the 
Rockne Memorial pool. 
"These will be two of our 
toughest meets of the year," 
Gene said. "We aren't in any 
conference, so we have to go on 
our record at the end of the year. 
And wins over both Marshall and 
Northern Illinois would give us a 
9-3 record and the best winning 
percentage in Notre Dame 
swimming history. 
"After this weekend, we go to 
the Motor City Invitational (in 
Detroit>. We were fifth there last 
year, but we're hoping to win it 
this year. They have some pretty 
good teams there, like Eastern 
Michigan. Then they have teams 
like Oakland U. and Wayne State, 
who we've already gone again­
st." ­
Like the other members of the 
swimming squad, Krathaus is 
very much aware of the value of 
the team. 
"The coach puts down the basis for it," he said, when speaking of the Irish squad's teamwork, "but we all work together. I mean, if a guy is doing something wrong on his turns, then everyone will try to help him out. We're a pretty close team, too. Everybody got up here about tVIo weeks before the second semester began so we could start work, and we do a lot after the season, too." 
But while Krathaus is ap­preciative of the value of his team, he is also appreciative of coach Stark's value. Gene has worked under Stark for his entire career at ND, and he admits that Stark's coaching has made a difference in his style. 
"He's helped me learn a lot more than just swimming," said Gene. "He helped me learn a lot of the fine points, and he helped smooth out a lot of the rough
ND fi h
"1 
SaltOrs OUrt 
Although idle during the winter months, the Notre Dame sailing team managed a fourth place finish in a field of eight entrants in Tulane University's Wind­jammer Regatta held recently on Lake Pontchartrain in New Orleans. 
Southern teams, which have been in training throughout the winter, made off with the top three places in the Regatta. California was first, Texas, second, and Tulane, third. 
The Southern schools' winter sailing experience stood them in good stead throughout the competition. Good starts and precise boat handling were essential in the 15-minute races and Notre Dame sailors suffered because of their inactivity. 
Nevertheless, the Irish were able to defeat Franklin Pierce 
<N.H.l , L.S.U., Southwestern Louisiana and Loyola of New Orleans. 
Will Donelan and John Boyd sailed in the "A" division for the Irish while Tom Willison and Chris Nedeau competed in the "B" group. 
·:-::=:=:=:~=~=~=~=~=~=~::::::::8:!::::::::::::::;::;:::::::~:~:~:::::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::\--~::::::::::::::;:~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~:;::::::::::~. 
fI  THE ROMA Pizza -Re'!_taurant -Launge  ll~l ·~  
~~'  219 N Michigan  South Bend  :~;l:  
~:::  14-16 oz. T-Bone  $2.95  :::i~  
:~~  Games Room  on Second Floor  ~lll  
~~~j  Pizza Deliveries,  Music By  ~l~\  
~jCallI  234-3258  John Nichols  ~:~: a  

i.:X::::::::=================2=~=:=g===!=~==tl::::::::::~:~:::::~:f=:~::~=~=r==~======================::::=:=====:=l 


G~ne Krathaus has been a consistent winner for Dennis Stark's swim team in the~ 50-yard freestyle. 
edges in my form." 
any more. At least there are few 

And Stark's attention has paid that have been apparent this year off well, for there are few rough to Krathaus' opponents in the 50­edges 
in Gene Krathaus' form yard sprint. 
••~It: 



lriaay, feb. 25 at 8:00 pm Ia fortune ballroom $1.00 admission 

RoGERS 
Optical 
ROGEil A1WELL • OWNH 
Alumni 
HOURS, MON • TUE5 • TIQ • Pll 
' AM 5.30 PM
WfD • SAT 9 AM 12 NOON COMPLETE SPI!!Cl'ACLE 
SEWICI! ALL E'Yf Ot. 'S PlfSCRIPTIOHS HONOIEt 
(;,.It 
289-7809 

(Senior Bar) 
FRIDAY: Oldies Night with Dance Contest. Prizes for Winners 
SATURDAY: Live Music Introducing 
''Ox Peddle" 10 pm-1 am 
I •.. 




Thursday, February 25, 1972 THE OBSERVER Page 11 
Irish battle for playoff position 
Coach Lefty Smith and his club capitalize · on theirs."
by Jim Donaldson 

..----~ 
cl
are well aware of the importance 
Sports Editor The Irish, bothered early in the 
of this weekend's series. "We've 
season by defensive problems,
It often happens in the ~ports got to win both games," Smith 
have had difficulties scoring the
world that, after months of commented grimly yesterday. 
past couple of weeks, picking up
practice and hard fought games, The Irish have been playing just 10 goals in their last fourthe success or failure of an entire good hockey in recent weeks, games, far below their earlyseason hinges on the outcome of a 
season average of five goals per
although they've been unable tosingle game or series. And that's snap their loss skein. Notre contest.
just the situation that faces the Dame's last four setbacks have The Wolverines, in contrast,Irish hockey team, whose hopes come on the road, at the hands of haven't had much success atfor a post-season playoff berth the WCHA's co-leaders, preventing goals. Michigan isdepend on the results of this Wisconsin and Denver. The tenth in the WCHA in goalsweekend's four-point series with Badgers topped the Irish two against, yielding 141, a 5.9
the Michigan Wolverines at the seeks ago by 6-4 and 5-1 scores average, while losing 14 of 24
ACC. 
and last weekend, Notre Dame league starts.
The Irish, losers of their last dropped a pair in Denver, losing 
eight games, have slipped to Senior K:ul Bagnell has been in 
:l-2, in overtime, and 4-3. 
ninth in the WCHA standings with the nets for every game the a 7-15 record (11-17 overall) and "I've been satisfied with the Wolverines have played this 22 title points. The top eight clubs team's play the last couple of season but his performance has in the league qualify for the weeks," Smith said. "We make not been as bad as the statistics WCHA playoffs and the Irish some mistakes, but so do the would indicate. Just last 
enter this weekend's action only clubs we play. Our problem has Saturday, Bagnell made 49 saves 
two points behind both Colorado been that the opposition has been as the Wolverines upset College and Michigan, tied for taking advantage of our errors Wisconsin, 6-4, at Ann Arbor. seventh with 24 title points. and we haven't been able to 

"Bagnell is the best goalie I've Winger Ian Williams has scored 18 goals for the Irish this season. seen in the league," Wolverine 
lost 11 of 12 starts. points, including 10 goals, and 
coach AI Renfrew said of his 

A key factor in what success freshman winger Randy Neal,
durable netminder. "He has to 

the Wolverines have had this who has 10 goals and 24 points.
stop a lot of shots when we don't 

year is winger Bernie Gagnon. 
Notre Dame's leading offensive ~
play well in front of him." 

The senior standout is fourth in performer this season is juniorHow well the Woverines play in the WCHA scoring race, chalking Paul Regan who has 24 goals and front of Bagnell seems to depend up 40 points on 22 goals and 18
OBSERVER 
19 assists for 43 points. John 

on whether or not they're playing assists. 
Noble is right behind Regan in
in front of the home fans, as well. 

Michigan's other top point the point parade, boasting 11-31­
Michigan has .compiled an im­

producers are Gagnon's 42 statistics. Both Noble and
pressive homE: tce record, win­
SPORTS 

linemate, Michel Jarry, with 34 Regan have scored 28 points inning 9 of 12 games in the Michigan Coliseum. On the road, however, the Wolverines have 
ND quintet visits Creighton 
by Er.k K..t ...  
The  Notre  Dame  basketball  
team winds its way towards the  
end of the 1971-1972season with a  
game  against  the  Creighton  
University  Bluejays  tomorrow  
night in the Civic Auditorium in  
Omaha, Nebraska.  
With  contests  left  against  
Villanova,  South  Carolina  and  
Dayton, it looks  as  though this  
game, and the confrontation with  
the U. of D.Flyers offer the only  
real hopes of the Irish adding to  
their six game victory total.  
The Bluejay braintrust, led by  
head coach Eddie Sutton  went  
into the 1971-1972 season figuring  
it to be a rebuilding year, one of  
those tough seasons.  
But  so  far,  the  Jays  have  
compiled a quite respectable 13-9  
mark, though their schedule falls  
to  compare  to  the  Irish  night­ 
mare line-up,  
The  Bluejays  returned  only  
three lettermen from last year's  
14-11  team, and of those three,  
only  6-3  junior  AI  Lewis  saw  
much court time as a part-time  
starter, last year.  
The loss of hardship pro signee  
Cyril Baptiste didn'thelp matters any either. So most of the Bluejay hopes were pinned on the newcomers to the Creighton varsity, sophomores who compiled an 18-2 mark as freshman last year. So it looks as though tomorrow night's battle lines up as a match between Digger's "kiddie korp­s", and Sutton's rookies. Gene Harmon, a 6-6 soph, and one of the four Bluejays listed in double scoring figures, leads the Jays with a 15.3 points per game average. Ralph Bobick, AI Lewis and Ted Wuebben back up Harmon with solid fire-power . Bobick, a 6-6 and a half sophomore has been scoring at a 13.6 clip, Lewis totals 13 points per contest, and Wuebben, 6-5, and another Jay soph, adds a 12.3 average to the Buejay scoring attack.  John Egart and his teammates seetomorrow in Omaha. to the Creighton offense with 8.8 and 5'6 scoring averages respectively. Wuebben leads the Blue jays in rebounding, collaring an average of 9.5 rebounds a game. Digger is expected to counter Sutton's quintet with a starting five of "Goose" Novak, Tom O'Mara, Willie Townsend, John Egart and Don Silinski. The Irish are still suffering from the physical beating they took from North Carolina though (Townsend's sore ankle, and Novak's bruised heel)' and so Chris Stevens is expected to see a lot of action. The "Goose" leads the Notre Dame scoring attack with an average of 19.5 points per game. Gary also leads the club in rebounding with an average of 10.5 'bounds per game. Gary also  k an upset victory over Creighton Tom O'Mara, on the strength of five consecutive games in which· he has scored twenty points or better, including that 32 point performance against • Fordham Monday night, has boosted his season's average to 18.5 points per game. Willie T., John Egart, and Don Silinski follow "Goose" and Tom in the Irish scoring stats with 9.4, 6.3 , and 5.6 averages respec­tively. The Jays have been almost unbeatable at home so far this year,sporting a 10-1 mark in the Civic Auditorium. The home record includes a 71-66 win over Jackonsville back on February 6th. In the Bluejay-Irish series, that dates all the way back to 1920 !when the Jays defeated the Irish 24-20), the Irish hold a 15-13 edge.  

WCHA competition.

WCHA Games The pair will center lines for GAMES FRIDAY the Irish this weekend, Noble Michigan at Notre Dame (7 :45 p.m., 
skating between Ian Williams 

ACC) 
<18-19-37) and Eddie Bumbacco

Colorado College at Denver 
MinnesOta at North Dakota (18-17-35) while Regan will be on Wisconsin at Michigan State 
the ice with Larry Israelson and

Michigan Tech at Minnesota-Duluth 
Jim Cordes. GAMES SATURDAY Michigan at Notre Dame (7:45 p.m., 
Notre Dame's third line, ACC) composed solely of freshmen,
Denver at Colorado College 
will have Pat Conroy at center,

Minnesota at North Dakota 
Michigan TeCh at Minnesota·Duluth ann John Campbell and Ray DeLorenzi on the wings.
GAME SUNDAY 
Wisconsin at Michigan State The Irish will be hurting somewhat defensively thisHockey Stats weekend because of the loss of 
Steve Curry, sidelined with Player Gms G A Pts Pta-Mil 
mononucleosis. Freshman Les

Noble,c .. .-.. 26 12 31 43 12-24 
Larson will take Curry's place

Regan,w ,... 26 24 19 43 2$-50 Williams,w .. 25 18 28 38 1~30 alongside Nyrop as one of Notre Bumbacco,w 28 19 17 37 2-4 
Dame's defensive tandems while 

CampbeU,w .28 10 19 29 1H6 
Green,d .....28 5 15 20 19-38 co-captain Bill Green and Mark Nyrop,d ...... 28 2 II 18 21-42 Steinborn comprise the other 
DeLorenzi,W 'l1 7 11 18 7-14 
combination.

Keating,w ..,.15 8 9 17 2-4 Conroy,c .... 20 6 7 13 1-2 
Coach Smith named sophomore 

Schafer,c ....28 6 7 13 9-18 
Curry,d......28 I 10 11 32-64 Mark Kronholm, who excelled in Steinbom,d .. 'l1 1 10 11 6-12 last Friday's overtime loss to 
Cordes,w .... 28 5 4 9 7-14 
Denver, to start in goal in the

Israelson,w .. 28 3 2 5 HO Lindsey, c .. 10 I 3 4 ~10 first game of the series and Larson,d .... 28 0 1 1 9-18 
tentatively gave senior Dick

Bonk,c ......23 0 1 1 1-2 
Tomasoni,g .20 0 1 1 0.0 Tomasoni the nod for Saturday's Tardani,w ... 11 1 0 1 1·2 contest. Howe,w ..... 2 0 0 0 ().0 M.Bonk,d .... 2 0 0 0 O.d The Irish will be out to avenge a Maison,w .... 2 0 0 0 ().0 
pair of early-season defeats at

Bench ...... . 1-2 
the hands of the Wolverines in Notre Dame .28 129 283 332 191·382 Ann Arbor. Aided by some Opponents ...28 132 186 ' 318 173·365 
questionable officiating,

Power Play Goals -Notre Dame 36 of 113 (32 per cent); Opponents 30 of 137 Michigan bested Notre Dame by (22 per cent) 6-5 scores on successive nights. 
Shorthanded Goals -Notre Dame 6, Opponents 5 
"We've got a score to settle 

Gealtellders Gms GA Avg. Saves SO 
with Michigan," Smith said.

Tomasoni ... 19.17 8!' 4.28 518 0 Kronholm ... 5.83 24' 4.12 178 1 I hope that we get good Cathcart . .. . 3.33 20' 4.54 110 o. 
stude~t support at the games and that we can respond with a good

Notre Dame. 26.33 126' 4.45 886 1 Opponen~ ... 28.33 126' 4.45 856 0 series." 
•DOes not indude ope11 net goals 
Faceoff both nights is 7:45. 
vs. Wolvennes 


What? You're not sitting with the Fanatics? 
Fri. -Sec. 7 Sat. -Sec. 6 
leads the clu~ in rebounding with The Irish defeated the Blue an average of 10.5 'bounds per jays in the Convo last year 102-91.
Gene Ellefson, a 6-7 junior, and 

Tickets on sale at Gate 10, ACC
Marc Mirsky, a 5-11 and a half 
game. Game time is 9 o'clock. 
sophomore have also contributed 

Page 12 THE OBSERVER. Thursday, February 25, 1972 
Thomas wants community changes 

by Pt>h• Frit>s 
Development of community and reforms in the ad­ministration were stressed last night by SBP candidate Dennis Thomas. Speaking to a small crowd in Breen-Phillips, Thomas described a seven-point plan aimed at "communication bet­ween students and ad­ministrators and the develop­ment of academic halls on campus. 
Thomas admitted to an ab­solute lack of experience in student government but cited that this is "perhaps the best qualification I have." Thomas also distinguished his campaign from the "twiddle-dum twidle­dee platforms and same old rhetoric of the other candidates," stating that his platform is designed on positive action and facing present problems of the university. 
Academic halls would replace some halls on campus and would consist of students and faculty. Students would take a minimum of 40 credit hours directly within 

~ the hall. Thomas emphasized "this would develop a real community; not just a section community." Also proposed by Thomas was the separation of the ad­ministration into two entities. One section would be concerned strictly with the recruitment of funds for the university and the other strictly with the ad­ministrative affairs on campus and thus "build a better com­munication between students and the administration" Thomas pointed out that the present situation in the administratio requires many personnel to be a combination· of both. The strongest emphasis of Thomas' platform is in the participation of the Notre Dame 
Thomas: aiming at better communications between ~tudents and ad­ministration 
community within the city of South Bend. He compared Notre Dame to an "ivory tower university" and that "we're not dealing with the problems of the community<South Bend)." His goal would be to involve students in urban projects and other community related activities. 
Thomas also stressed heavily minority recruitment and would strive for increased enrollment especially of Chicanos, Puerto Ricans, and American Indians. Thomas also commented that he would push for a Spanish-speaking recruiter, and in­education. Thomas said: "Co­creased scholarship funds. <.'ducation and the merger are 

In regards to off-campus problems but compared to the problems, Thomas would con­problems of a guy in South Bend struct an off-campus government who makes thirty dollars a week 
apart from the student govern­and supports five kids, they are ment on campus and finance it by minor." the off-campus government fee Thomas did promise though, already included in the tuition. that concerning the merger talks, 
Other points in his campaign he would "make them (ad­include the abolition of the ministration) tell us what's going Student Senate and the on if it takes petitions to students delegation of their authority to and alumni." 
correction 
The Observer story in the 
February 22nd edition, con­
l"erning D•·. Pl:'ter Moody's views 
on President Nixon's trip to 
China contained an error. The 
article said Dr. Moody was a 
Forl:'ign Sl:'rvice officer on 
Taiwan. He was not, he was a 
graduatl:' student on Taiwan and 
ha~ nt>vl'J' worked for the 1-(11\'l'l'n 
ment. 
'--------------' 

r-----------------------------------------------·--­
the Hall President's Council. In 
regards to the merger and co-

CLASSIFIED ADS 
Kersten to speak 

WANTED
(maybe) at Walsh 

POETRY WANTED for An­thology. Include stamped en­velope. Idlewild Press, 1807 E. Olympic Boulevard, Los Angles, 
R. Calhoun Kersten will ad­
dress members of the student 

California 90021.
body at 7:30 tonight from the fourth floor ledge of Walsh Hall 

Garage to rent near campus. Call 
8797.
prior to his Fact-Finding Com­
mission to St. Mary's College. 

Desparately need a ride to
Kersten, who was recently 

Cleveland on Feb. 25th. Call Mary
kidnapped while attending a 

Beth 4828. 
ralley in his honor at Keenan 

Wanted: Two SMC girls to share
Hall, will be present only if the 

fantastic four bedroom house next
estimated 27 cents ransom is paid 

year.
for his release. 

Jack or Mike 233-3920. 
H-Man, Kersten's campaign 

Lead or rhythm guitarist is
manager, stated, "the money will 

seeking rock band. Call Ken 8648. 
be paid if it can be raised in time. We are relying on strong support 

TWO GIRLS NEED RIDE TO DETROIT THIS WEEKEND.
from the student body to raise the 

CALL MAUREEN 4784 OR SUE 
necessary funds." 

4810. 
Ride needed to Philadelphia or
Notre Dame -St. Mary's Theatre 

vicinity anytime soon. Call 4124. 
presents 

THREE HOUSEMATES NEEDEDNEXT YEAR--FOR 
INFO. CALL STEVE 6733.
Judas Christ 

I'm going to Kent State on Friday and I need riders. Leaving around noon. Ken 6987. 
A NEW PLAY BY MICHAEL REHAK 
Feb. 18, 19, 24, 25, 26 8:30 pm 

Wanted: Oil to keep Higgins
Washington Hall 

machine running smoothly. Call 8020.
Tickets $2, $1.50 for ND-SMC Staff, Faculty, Students 

FOR SALE
Reservations at 284-4141 and 283-7054_ 


Gibson Electric; 100 watt Kustom ·Amp. New Cond. 232-6338. 

pa,-ts and Accessories for 1m. ported cars. Foreign Car Parts Co. 215 Dixieway North (Roseland) 272-7187. 
ROBERTS 770 X Tape recorder:
NCE 

Cross Field heads, sound, on sound, sound with sound, 4 speeds. Call 3729.
Here are some special offerings; there's more "in store" 

Michelin X Tires-165-380-15" with tubes. For all VW Bugs; most 15" sports and imports. Best offer
MEN'S SWEATERS Reg. $11 to $35 NOW lf2 PRICE 

255-6726. 
Nearly new Roberts 1720 reel to reel stereo tape recorder. Originally $200 now $135. Call Bob 3131 after midnight. 
Choose from many colors and styles ... everyone half price! 
FAMOUS BRAND DRESS SHIRTS EXACTLY lf:z OFF 

For Sale; 2 $6.50 tix to Mancini­
Williams concert. Call Dennis 1049. 
These are your favorite brand. Stock up now and save. Long sleeves. 

'63 Impala--Good condition. 
$200.00. Call 233-7323 after 5:30 pm. 
BODY SHIRTS Choose from a special group 1/2 PRICE 
Big, Big savings now on these favorites. 

MOVIE CAMERA BARGAIN: Wards 706a, super 8, 5:1 power zoom, 18 & 24 Ips, automatic 
exposure TTL. reflex viewing focusing, only $65. Call 283-8180 
ALL WEATHER COATS PRICES REDUCED 
Lined and unlined styles from quality names. 

FOR RENT 
SUITS AND SPORTCOATS SAVE '14 I 'hI lj3 

2 three bedroom furnished houses available June or Sept. 234-5830.
From our stock of university-styled woven suits and coats. 

Golf cart for sale or rent. Call Jim 8906. 
THE NEW FOR SPRING SHIRTS ARE HERE! Surf Shirts, Golf Shirts, Wallace Berry Shirts to name a few ... all in the colors 

Words 1da 2da 3da 4da 5da 
1-10 .65 .95 1.15 1.35 1.55 11-15 1.00 1.50 1.85 2.10 2.40 16-20 1.30 1.95 2.15 2.55 2.95 21-25 1.70 2.55 3.20 3.85 4.45 
and patterns you want. Stop in for a preview. 
Theres the Campus 

26-30 2.10 3.15 3.95 4.75 5.45 31-35 2.45 3.65 4.45 4.75 6.15 36-40 2.80 4.20 5.25 6.75 7.75
Shop Way to buy .... 

41-45 3.15 4.70 5.90 7.10 8.20 
46-50 3.55 5.20 6.50 7.80 8.95 
• 
NOTICES 
Interested in A Spring Break flight to Denver? Leaves March 22 from O'Hare. Call Pete 6743­6730 or Dan 6987. 
--_______________:_ 
Ready for more B.S.? Come to Kersten Uncandidate rally 7:30 Fri. night in front of walsh. 
-------· -------­
DISCOUNT TRAVEL. To and Within Europe. Leave anytime from NY -Chicago. Flight Center 227 North Randall, Madison WI 53706. 
.. ---------------­ATTENTION PRE-LAW STUDENTS!!! LSAT REVIEW COURSE NOW ACCEPTING STUDENTS FOR APRIL (AND OTHER LSAT TESTS.) FOR 
INFORMATION CONTACT: 
KELLY FLYNN, 232-8236. 
-· ----------------­
Need typing done??? Will do typing for reasonable rates and on short notice -don't waste time pecking away. Call Chip 8256. 
Skiers! 5 places remaining for Easter Jackson Ho:e Trip $99 Lodging & Tix -Call 6875. 
Time for a fresh approach. Luken--Spak for SBP-SBVP. 
NEW 7th 9th GRADE CLASSICAL-CHRISTIAN SCHOOL NEEDS ENGLISH, LATIN, MATH AND SCIENCE TEACHERS. Since salaries will be small the first year, we're looking for graduate sutdents 
(preferably with Masters) to work part-time while at Notre Dame. Send rita, references etc. to Magdalen School, P.O. Box 1225, South Bend 46624. 
Going to Chicago? Take the Greyhound from the Circle. Call: Tom Boyer, 6984 for information. 
Pressure with diplomacy Luken-Spak for SBP-SBVP. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost (Stolen!) Brown wallet containing money & 
I.D. if found please contact Jim Willard, 8056. 
Reward:  For  return  or  in­ 
formation  on  brown  leather  
trenchcoat  taken  from  Regina  

Hall Sat. 2-19. Call Thorn 1150. 
Found: Ladies Gold Times, outside O'Shag. Call 5220 after midnight. 
Lost: Wallet with ID's. You can keep the money. Return to 223 Walsh 6875. 
PERSONALS 
Creep, Last weekend was great. Hope this one will be as nice-With you I have no doubts. 
Love, Okay 
Preppie forward (hockey), with 
M.G. seeks short-term romance with intellignet female. Special consideration give catty Italians with terminal illnesses. Call 8741, 45pm 
Bill HA HA HA HA HA 404 
Welcome back Maggie (P., not 
M. l Should be good limes! 
To: Gary L, Mike MeG., Patty K., Jane A.,· and Ter-Bean (?) TThanks. 
Mike 
You select your apparel now and pay one-third in July and one­third in August. We never add a service or carrying charge. Open your account now.

.. 
Thursday, February 25, 1972 THE OBSERVER. Page 5 
Seymour, Welte speak •

lD McCandless 

by Maria Gallagher 
Residents of McCandless Hall gathered in small discussion groups last night to hear candidates Jean Seymour and Sue Welte advance their coalition platform. 
In the informal question and answer sessions, the candidates listed goals for student govern­ment, and expanded on a number of points in their campaign leaflet. 
Ms. Seymour stated that she and Ms. Welte do not advocate a total merger of student govern­ments, but rather a partial merger, involving the executive cabinets. 
"A great deal of duplication of effort exists which could be remedied by one person holding one position where possible and serving · both campuses," she said. She also proposed the creation of a Hall Life cabinet position at SMC. 
Miss Seymour voiced op­position to student government 'taking ?ver" _in_ the halls, but emphasized willingness to exert ir:f!uence as elected student o~­ficials on behalf of the halls If 
needed. 
Hall apathy in McCandless was discussed. The candidates ex­pressed support of hall-sponsored activities to develop better community relations within them. One student proposed a referendum on the possible 
establishment of a stay-hall system at SMC, which Seymour and Welte also favored. 
Ms. Welte particularly stressed their desire to allot surplus student government funds to the halls for whatever renovations or activities the halls wished. 
Calling on students to take an active interest in all matters affecting them, Ms. Seymour proposed the inclusion of student representatives on all merger negotiation teams, in­terinstitutional teams, the rank and tenure committee, and the Board of Trustees. 
"Students gained a great deal of respect last semester from the Board of Trustees for their knowledgability and concern during the un-merger crisis," Seymour said. "I believe they would be quite willing to accept a student representative." 
Although she expressed doubt that voting privileges would be 
I 
t 
WeHe: surplus funds should 
go back to ha lis for extended this year, Seymour said she was "positive" that a student would be permitted to sit on the Board in a non-voting capcity. Miss Welte was equally confident that "no problems would be encountered" in obtaining 24 hour open lounges in each hall. 
"Both Dr. Mary Alice Cannon <SMC vice-president of student affairs) and Katherine Mullaney <SMC Dean of Students) came from schools which had 'liberal' parietal regulations," the Judicial Board chairman ob­served. "They have given us every indication that they will 
Rodgers and Mack introduce 'independent interdependence' 
by Marlene Zloza 
St. Mary's candidates Maureen Rogers and Mary Mack con­tinued their campaign last night in Augusta and McCandless halls, introducing a philosophy they call "independent in­terdependence." 
The idea behind this is to "encourage personal growth by living and working in a true community atmosphere." 
Ms. Rogers quoted the SMC procedural manual which states that "every girl has a right to manage her personal affairs as long as it doesn't interfere with others." She feels that im­plementing this statement would bring about greater individuality and maturity among students. 
Academiclllly, Rogers said "since the merger has been 'postponed,' we must worry about SMC academic programs and push to get immediate an­swers to our questions con­cerning majors, degrees and requirements." 
Students, she suggested, can exert pressure by "informing your parents about what kind of 
. . . 
ed~cabon Y~~ are gettmg for their money. 
Stressing that hall councils can be the basis for legislation and reform, Rogers called Augusta
Hall this year "an exception because you have developed some hall unity and established a spirit that is incomprehensible to most SMC students." 
Another idea supported by Rogers and Mack is a co-op grocery to enable on-and off-, campus students to purchase food supplies at reasonable prices. 
"The purpose would not be to make a large profit, but to help the students," said Rogers. Earnings could be used as financial aid to students who work for the co-op. Possible locations are the Regina basement or the O'Laughlin coffee shop. 
Rogers also advocated in­dividual hall policies on parietals and would promote "at least Friday and Saturday evening parietals." She endorsed 24-hour open lobbies in all dorms, adding that security guards could be responsible for this. 

Tonight People & Song Presents Cindy Corsaro Tom Petray Chuck Beck Refreshments Everyone Welcome 25c Admission 9-2 am Alumni Hall Lounge  
PRE-CANA (Advance Notice) To beheld 9, 16, 23 of April Registration in Marth Watch for further notices  
March 10 CONNECTICUT MUTUAL LIFE INS. co. No specific degree or major for those interested in life insurance career. 


Services that Rogers-Mack
spoke of expanding included psychological counselling and birth control and drug in­formation center. 

support a modification of the "Women today must cope with present policy here. To use their a male-oriented society," own words, they have called the Seymour claimed. "They must be current system 'very Mickey shown that all fields are open to Mouse'." capable individuals, not just the 
In the academic area, Ms. traditional options of secretary, Seymour advocated "a whole nurse, or teacher." new way of thinking in the In conclusion, the candidates classroom." She suggested the called for an "informed and institution of "specific courses to aroused student body" and educate women for today's pledged to "facilitate the flow of world, dealing with the particular communication" between the two problems of women." campuses. 
RYOUR OWN CAR! 
USE OUR TOOLS. PARTS AND KNOW-HOW 
• ROOMY, WELL 
UGHTED SERVICE AREA & EXPERT SUPERVISION 
• 
600 HP DYNAMOMETER AND ALLEN ELECTRONIC FAST. ACCURATE DIAGNOSIS AND CHECK OUT 

• 
WHEEL ALIGNMENT, BALANCING AND TRUEING 

• 
TOOLS FOR EVERYTHING FROM TUNE-UPS TO MAJOR OVERHAUL 


AlJr®lECH 
Phone Toll Free From So Bend 
112 MILE NO. OF US 12 ON~ 31 (SOUTH Of NILE'S)

684-1 

MAIN CHURCH SUNDAY MASSES 
5:15p.m. Sat. Fr. Bill Toohey, C.S.C. 
9:30 a.m. Sun. Fr. William Jenkinson 
10:45 a.m. Sun. Fr. Carl Deane, S.J. 
12:15 p.m. Sun. Fr. Bill Toohey, C.S.C. 
,-------------__i============================j' 
PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Sign up the week of February 28 for interviews scheduled the week of March 6 · 10, inclusive 
Interviews are open to ND and SMC seniors and graduate students. Sign-up schedules are in Room 207, Main Building. Select your own time and sign your name. Room 207 will be open at 8:00a.m. until 5:00p.m. each day, except Friday. 
Consult the Placement Manual for additional information regarding interviews and procedures. 
Make sure a completed College Interview Form is left in designated boxes in Room 207 no later than Friday of the week prior to your interviews. 
INTERVIEWS SCHEDULED FOR WEEK OF MARCH 6 · 10, INCLUSIVE 
March 6 DAYTON'S. BBA and MBA KANSAS CITY Ll FE INS. CO. No specific degree or major for Candidate-EDP Division. KRAFTCO CORPORATION. MBA. NATIONAL BANK OF DETROIT. BA and BBA for Branchment Management. MBA only for Commercial Loan Analyst. SCOTT PAPER CO. BA, BBA and MBA. 
March 7 

METROPOLITAN LIFE. MBA. 
GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION. B. of ~rch. BS, MS in E.E., M.E. or C.E. BA and BBA. PRATT & WHITNEY AIRCRAFT DIVISION. BS,MS in A.E.and M.E. BS,MS in Math. 
March 7 & 8 

BELL TELEPHONE LABORATORIES. BS,MSin E.E.,M.E.andMath. 
INDIANA BELL TELEPHONE CO. BS in E.E., Engr. Sci., M.E. and Math. BBA in MKT., Fin. and Mgt. (Students interested in other Bell System Companies may leave resume or College Interview Form at Placement Office.) 
March 9 

CONNECTICUT GENERAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. BA, BBA and MBA. FOSTER FORBES GLASS COMPANY. BA and BBA. NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE. All BBA. TRAVELERS INSURANCE COMPANY. BS in Math. BAand BBA. 
March 9 & 10 

AYR-WAY STORES. BS in M.E.I.O. BBAand MBA. 
DUN & BRADSTREET INC. BA and BBA. 
UMC.COLSON. BBA in Marketing. 
Page 6 THE OBSERVER Thursday, February 25, 1972 
'TiME fOR A
THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
NEW ROOMMAfE? 
Editor-In-Chief, Glen S. Corso Assistant Editor Assistant Editor 
All successful newspapers are ceaselessly querulous and bellicose. They never defend
Buslne11 Manager anyone or anything if they can help Advertising Manager 
Jim· Jendryk it; if the job is forced upon them, Bill Bauerle they tackle it by denouncing someone or something else. 
T.C. Treanor John Abowd 
H.L. Mencken 
A Real Disaster 
Yc5terday, February 24th, 1972 will go down as a great day in the an­nals of Notre Dame history. It will go down as a great day because the Student Life Council finally met, finally met for the first time this semester. 
And what did the SLC do at the first meeting of the semester? Did that collection of administrators, students, and faculty members assert themselves? Did they chart a new path in their relationship with the ruling plutocrats of this university? Did they, atlong last, insist on having real power, power to effect some changes, power to make decisions without having them promptly overruled by Notre Dame's Privy Council­-the Trustees? 
Most assuredly the Student Life Council did not do any such thing. It considered an edict from the Grand Inquisitor, Provost Fr. James T. Burtchaell, and meekly upheld it. 
The edict bluntly told the Student Life Council that they were to con­sider the membership of the St. Mary's representatives terminated, since the merger negotiations had broken down. Last week the Chairman of the SLC, Professor William Eagan, went hat in hand, to see this university's president. He was informed that the St. Mary's representatives could not sit on the Council. Rather than standing up to the administration and telling them that the Student Life Council was more qualified to decide whether the St. Mary's people should sit on it, the SLC quietly folded. 
There were six council representatives who did not want to quietly fold. They voted for Tower representative Floyd Kezele's motion to seat the St. Mary's people. The rest of the Council bowed their heads and shuffled to the tune that the administration called. 
The SLC did take full advantage of the escape clause in the Grand Inquisitor's edict, which allowed them to communicate with their St. Mary's brethren, by allowing them speaking priviledges on the Council. 
Why members continue to attend Student Life Council meetings is somewhat of a mystery. It has no effective leadership to speak of. Its chairman bows in deference to the administration on almost every issue. And the council is only left free to decide matters which the University Plutocrats decide are too unimportant for them to fool with. 
The Atrudent Life council is a sham. It is used by the administration to handle tedious, trivial matters and while handling these trivial, tedious matters gives the convenient mirage of community participation in decisions affecting the whole University. 
The administration and trustees will quickly institute pyramids and pyramids of tripartite boards in the areas of student life, but will only allow token representation onother decision-making bodies. Take for example the search committee for the new Vice-President for Student Affairs. An obvious candidate for a tripartite board, right? Wrong. There is one, repeat one student on it. 
Such is the nature of a hypocritical institution. It garishly displays the language of community, but rejects all it's concrete forms. The new student government administration could do everyone a favor by refusing to hold SLC elections. If there are no pawns available for the administration's games, then maybe, just maybe they might be forced to play by the rules, at long last. 
night editor: maria gallagher layout: joe abell. marlene zloza headlines: don biancamano night controller: mark j. niederkorn day editor: pete fries 
deserters: corso, abowd, ellis, at, mcder.mott, mccarry, t.c., murphy, roe, ruane, 
smith 
music courtesy of jim hunt (and cat stevens) 


For What It's Worth 111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Slick Ape 
1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 D0 n Ruane 
Late Thursday afternoon a deafening roar and heart stopping thunder exploded from the Hayes Healy Center board room as the administration ape, with a little help from the faculty, pounded its chest in vicotory over another student attempt to make the SLC work for the better Notre Dame we want and need. 
It wasn't a major victory, because the real fight is yet to come concerning the petition which, if passed, would give the SLC power to act on appeals to decisions made by the vice president for student affairs. 
The petition, which grew out of a VP for SA decision to close the Crypt last fall, was buried in the agenda by the administrative and one of two faculty members of the steering committee for starters. 
The Steering Committee; composed of SLC Chairman William Eagan and William McGlinn of the faculty; Fr. James L. Riehle of the administration; Floyd Kezele and Richard Urda of the students, detemines the order of the agenda. Kezele does not vote except in tie breaking situations. At the last meeting, Fr. Riehle and Eagan, who tend to think alike, set the petition fourth. McGlinn was overpowered and Urda was absent, because he could not be contacted. 
This set the petition behind several letters of communication, three committee reports, and a Rules and Regulations report which the members saw for the first time at the meeting. 
Aware of the SLC propensity to say nothing in a time consuming way, a successful power play was executed by the two. The petition did not come to the floor until seven minutes of regulation time remained in the administration step-on-the-students game. 
The administration is a tough team to play, especially with their bench, known as the faculty squad. They provided real reserve t rength when a motion for a 15 minute extension was made by joining the varsity in hearty, deep throated rendition of "NO!" 
This left the obviously complex problem a little less than five minutes. Some serious discussion started, but quickly dissipated into administrative drizzle. 
Student hope flashed with another motion for extension, this time for ten minutes. Unfortunately it died in a fine example of the inability of student SLC members to move the ball against the administration. 
Eagan, batting one for one after the steering com~itt~ .fiasco, whomped another one down student throats by quickly d!smissmg the motion ·as already defeated.One of the factions, maybe both, doesn't know how to count. There is a five minute difference there, and .the students let Eagan's curt reply go without challenge. It's no wonder students are not respected, 
Everyone of the eight "representatives" should have nailed Eagan on the time differential, as well astelling him that neitherhe nor any other faculty or administrator can get away with such a con­temptuous, bush league remark. 
Unfortunately student leadership does not exert itsself in these situations. The semester is more than a month old, and the SLC has finally held its first student sacrifice. Why didn't the student representatives demand a meeting before this? 
Are they frustrated after a year of trying to deal with a machine that allies faculty in one instance and then turns to request departmental plans to fit a tenure quota system it never really discussed with that faction? 
Who wouldn't be tired after fighting a losing battle? The secret though is to land the first punch, not to take it. Student leadership on the SLC has grown stronger, but still needs training. 
Student strength can grow through the SBP election and the SLC vote later this semester. Ithas to because that slick ape isn't going to leave its banana tree just because we want him out of there . 

. ~·-------------------------------­

Thursday, February 25, 1972 THE OBSERVER Page 7 
I. franklin devine 

judas christ --a play you'll talk about 

tony oppegard 

open season of death 
"Today, May 17th, we enter Local Board 
No.33 at Catonsville, Maryland, to seize 
Selective Service records ...We, American 
citizens, have worked with the poor in the 
ghetto and abroad ...All of us identify with 
the victims of American oppression all 
over thP world ... We submit voluntarily to 
their involuntary fate ... " 
Nearly four years ago, with these words Father Daniel Berrigan, S.J., his priest-brother Philip, and s~ven other Christians removed and burned 600 individual draft files from one of America's offices of death. They performed this act of conscience out of love for you and me, for our friends and our children, indeed, for life itself. And all of them have suffered tremen­dously for this act of love and witness. Yester­day, after 18 months in a federal prison in Danbury, Connecticut, . Daniel Berrigan was released, a sick and physically broken man. Once again, in the "Land of Unknowing," a prophet has paid the price of having seen the truth. 
The road to Catonsville was a long and arduous one for Daniel Berrigan. He suffered along the way, suffered until he could stand no more. For him, Catonsville was the releasing of years of frustration, a joyous act of freedom. He had witnessed the pain and despair in South Africa, in Eastern Europe, in Latin America, and in North Vietnam. And always he responded to this pain--it radicalized him and led him to new thoughts and deeds. Itwasn't enough to establish the largest and most influential peace organization in America-"Clergy and Laymen Concerned About Vietnam" -in 1965. Nor was it satisfactory to march on the Pentagon and go to jail in 1967. For thousands died daily, his actions. were becoming too "respectable," and, most importantly, America , the insensitive "One­Eyed Giant," was still blind to her ways. 

In January, 1968, Father Berrigan journeyed to Hanoi to bring home three captive American airmen. The senseless destruction of human life which he saw there confirmed his belief that American life separates us more and more from the fate of our victims--be it in the ghettoes of our cities, the hills of Appalachia, the reservations of the west, or the rice paddies of Vietnam. America did not realize the value of life, she rejected the idea of the perfectability of the "Kingdom," and she deprived us of our hope. He returned to America visibly distressed, yet tempered with the firm conviction that the patient work of "revolution and renewal" must continue. Shortly thereafter, he was once again greeted with the specter of death. A young high school student, in despair over the war, drenched himself with kerosene and immolated himself in the shadow of a Catholic cathedral. As Father Berrigan visited the boy and smelled the odor of burning flesh, the helpless anguish he had seen in North Vietnam due to America's militarism and nationalism was vividly recalled: 
"He died shortly thereafter 
I felt that my senses 
had been invaded in a new way 
I had understood 

the power of death in the modern world 
against death ­
because this boy's death 
was being multiplied 
a thousandfold 

in the Land of Burning Children ... " 
And so Catonsville, because Daniel Berrigan had seen too much reality and could bear it no more. His act "was aimed at every major presumption underlying American life today" not only her military, but her laws, her medicine, her educatign, all her institutions. For those who contend that such actions merely destroy our society, Father Berrigan would say that our society is already in the process of self­destruction, and if one cannot understand this it is because that person is living off the "illegitimacies" of the system. And Daniel Berrigan was not just saying "no" to war, but "yes to life, yess to the possibility of a human future." He had tried every form of protest available, yet America would not respond. His Apocalyptic theology told him not to wait for time to heal this nation's wounds -"Do only that which one cannot not do." And he could not not do Catonsville. He had to wake us from our sleep. 
Our apologies, good friends, for the fracture of good order, the burning of paper instead of children, the angering of the orderlies in the front parlor of the charnel house. We could not, so help us God, do otherwise. For we are sick at heart, our hearts give us no rest for thinking of the Land of Burning Children." 
I believe anyone who has seen the suffering the pain, the destruction of innocent children must surely understand Father Daniel Berrigan and his actions. His life calls out for understanding, for compassion, for love. He is a sign to every American who permits his nation to see for him. Daniel Berrigan asks us to follow the wisdom of our own conscience. As Camus said: "All I ask is that, in the midst of a murderous world, we agree to reflect on murder and make a choice." In the face of extreme national insensitivity, we must respond with a heightened individual consciousness. To do so is to become truly human, to accept love and life in the open season of death. 
The ND-SMC Theatre world premiere production of Michael Rehak's Judas Christ opened last weekend at Washington Hall and continues tonight through Saturday. Rehak's play presents us with a fascinating, if not scholarly,· speculation on the need of a small cabal of the followers of Jesus to manufacture a Messiah out of a coward. 
Depsite its inconsistencies, (Why would anyone get so far down the road to "fulfulling scripture" and not realize the logical conclusion? Is he stupid? Why does the cabal deem the teachings of such a short-sighted coward so important that they decide to preach them as a way of life? l, the play is an interesting exercise both for actors and audience. Rehak, while neglecting the "whys" concerning Jesus, spins a wonderful web of "how's" with regard to the apostles. 
The audience gets the feeling it's being invited into someone's daydream or a staged scenario from a 4 a.m. dorm bull session. The sense is heightened by having the actors appear on stage at the outset in the dP rigeur outfirs of the youth culture. They then assume the robes of the story (a Ia the celebrant in Bernstein's Mass) with bell bottoms and tank tops and turtlenecks peeking out at the audience just enough to remind us that.JudasChrist is the staging of the faith-identity crises of youth. 
The play is one highlighted by fine, solid and often moving individual per­formances. For some reason the actors seem not to fade into a smooth ensemble. This lack of the intangible which makes fQurteen actors into a single ensemble is perhaps the production's greatest weakness. 
Yet were it not for this weakness, many of the outstanding perfomrances would not have been so conspicuous. Mark Genero has retuned both to Notre Dame and the ND-SMC Theatre this semester, and he seems to have grown better and deeper as an actor during his one semester absence. His Judas is one of two multi-dimensional characters in the play. Genero proves himself a strong and moving presence on stage. 
The only other full character on stage 
was James Hawthorne's Peter. 
Hawthorne turned in by far his best per­
formance since The Death of Bessie Smith. 
He conveyed an inner strength without 
appearing to stretch the character's 
credibility. Hawthorne created a man of 
strengths and doubt, a man of incredible 
stability, yet plagued with self-doubts. 
The only otller full character on stage 

\ 
~.··· ~ 
/ ~ 
was James Hawthorne's Peter. Hawthorne turned in by far his best per­romance since The Death of Bessie Smith. He conveyed an inner strength without appearing to stretch the character's credibility. Hawthorne created a man of strengths and doubts, a man of incredible stability, yet plagued with self-doubts. In Hawthorne's hands, Peter became as significant and moning within the story as Judas. 
These two were backed up by a number of strong performances within the com­pany. Particularly impressive was Paulette Petretti as Mary the Mother of Jesus. She managed to avoid all the usual cliches which one would ordinarily associate with the role. Director Reginald Bain 's casting for this role was excellent. 
Mark O'Connell's zealot of a Thomas bounced off and played well agaisnt Mark Swiney's appropriately misanthropic Matthew. Although the two worked well against each other in those two roles, casting them also as the two high priests seemed unnecessary. Perhaps director Bain intended this double casting to fur­theremphasizetheirbull-session or dream quality of the play, but it just doesn't seem to work. 
Much of what could only be attributed to the desire to emphsize dream-likeness simply comes acroos as sloppy. This is particularly true of the show's lighting. Actors consistently would deliver speeches in darkness, only to have lights come up on them after the speech was finished. On one occasion Judas delivers an important speech lit only from the chest down. One was exposed to what appeared to be the sort of technical and blocking sloppiness which comes in early rehearsals. This whole effect was only amplified by an occasional stumbling over lines -some­thing unheard of in most ND-8MC Theatre productions. If all this was done to enhance an effect which already was well­achieved, it didn't work. 
Richard Bergman's set with its raked floor, and what might almost be a melting Jerusalem set around the foot of a cross is wonderfully dreamlike. It has a frightening reality without substance. It is both chaotic and peaceful, warm and forbidding, of reality and yet unearthly. 
Judas Christ is one of the most 
provocative plays offered by the Theatre 
since I've been here. It becomes a 
challenge to the audience ... a play which 
does not comfortably lend itself to 
neutrality. This is one you'll go home and 
talk about. 

...... 
~~-­

~age 8 THE OBSERVER Thursday, February 25, 1972 
Fitzpatrick advocates 'total environment' 
Both candidates also stressed cooperation," continued Ms.the need for referendum on Fitzpatrick. "If one is trulydecisions of major importance, dedicated to this goal, one sees it~such as parietals, so that the as a necessity to cooperate withopinions of all students can be anyone. More than making it aconsidered. political campaign play duringMs. Fitzpatrick and Ms. Orr the campaign, it should be made are seriously dedicated to the a physical reality during the merger of Notre Dame and St. year," she concluded.Mary's governments, and hope Ms. Fitzpatrick, a junior, andfor the immediate merger of the Ms. Orr will continue theircabinets and legislative bodies. 
campaign throughout the week,"The reason why we are not 

speaking on every floor of every SMC residence hall. 
.R.iVER.PA.RK. 
..................... 
MIIHAWAKA AVI, AT 30TH. 
ACADEMY AWARD 
ONTENDERS 
In everyone's lite there's a 
SUMMER OF '42 
Fitzpatrick and Orr feel that 
by Ann McCarry 
minor substantive changes in the present community government 
system at St. Mary's can miike it 
Stressing the need fo St. Mary's a much more workable structure. 
to become a "viable entity" with While accentuating self­
or without Notre Dame, SBP determination and hall 
candidate Eileen Fitzpatrick and autonomy, Ms. Fitzpatrick and 
her running mate, Mary Orr, Ms Orr agree that more student 
talked with students in Holy involvement is vital to an ef­
Cross and Regina Halls last fectively representational form 
night. 
of governmenm.Basing their theory on the "You have to know how to use 
philosophy that education goes structures and work throughbeyond the academic and en­them," claimed Ms. Fitzpstrick.
compasses all aspects of life, Ms. She continued to express her 
Fitzpatrick and Ms. Orr ex­belief that decisions made by the 
pressed their commitment to the student government should not be 
Fitzpatrick: theory of
"creation of the total en­subject to presidential veto,
education emphasizes a
vironment." stating that "the community
broad outlook 
should have this power."
"Right now the student body is Ms. Orr who was in charge ofof a basically homogeneous the information services duringbackground. Our theory of To remedy this situation, Ms. the un-merger crisis, expounded education emphasizes the 
Fitzpatrick suggested that a 
on the need of communicationnecessity of a broad outlook," 
remedial program be set up for 
between the government and theMs. Fitzpatrick said. "To minority students to prepare student body.
broaden their outlook of in­them for freshman year. Such a "We hope to send out a bi­dividuals we have to bring ethnic, program would be conducted monthly or weekly newsletter toracial, and economic minority during the summer and inform students on not only whatstudents to the campus. This is presently under serious con­we are doing but also of facts that not just to facilitate the sideration at Notre Dame. they may not know. For instance education of the minoirty the fact that, with approval, a St.
students, but also to facilitate the Mary Orr, SBVP candidate, Mary's student can set up hereducation of those students who accented minority recruitment of own major and curriculum."
are here," she continued. both students and faculty. Both "We want to take student"Last year we were told by the candidates support financial aid government back· to day-to-dayadministration that 'We can't for minority .students and life of the student, not justfind any qualified black students recognize that a change in the something in the basement ofto come here,' stated Ms. Fitz­atmosphere must occur in order Holy Cross,'' Ms. Fitzpatrickpatrick, a SMC assembly to entice individuals to come continued.
member. here. 
Cunningham, Voll slate entertainment Saturday 
deals with social life, Cun­coeducation be if the studetns doby Art Ferranti 
ningham asserted that he is a not have anyplace to go except"serious candidate" who would the same places" asked Cun­To give the students an idea of 
like the students to see some ningham.
their plans, this Saturday night in 
"noticeable improvements" at
the basement of the La Fortune In the past, the student govern­
the Univeristy for the sixteen
Student Center, Cunningham and ment has not been effective since 
dollar student governmental
Voll will present a free en­the students showed no en­
activity fee each student pays.
tertainment show. It will begin at thusiasm for it." Cunningham 
7:00 PM and continue until 8: 15. In order to see what the concluded, "We're not skirting There will be a magician, a students want, Cunningham the issues, we're just asserting ventriloquist, a banjo sing-along, promised to use the Ombudsman ·that the direction must be and to highlight the program, the service as a polling agency to go chnaged." 
locker room scene of "The Knute out and question the hall oficials Once confidence is gained byHockne Story" with Pat O'Brien. and students to find their needs. 
the student body in its officers,Cunningham said, "John (VoJl) The results, Cunningham said, then Cunningham said, "We willsaid before that Notre Dame would then be published in the be able to confront the ad­
Observer and aired over WSND
severely lacks fun, and this ministration on the other issues.
with reports on what has been something about it." The public Saturday we're going to do 
donP and what will be done. 
Cunningham and Voll spoke at is invited. "Student government past Morrissey last night and will efforts have not been properly continue their campaign
Calling for a realignment of aimed at satisfying a student's throughout the weekend. 
priorities, Student Body 
basic needs," said Cunningham.
President candidate Mike 
"We <John Voll, his runningmate 
Cunningham said that he bases 
and he l feel that if we sa~isfy 
Today is the last day for thehis campaign on an improved 
these needs through the activities 
dropping of classes. No coursessocial life, immediate and con­
and means we outlined in our 
may be discontinued aftercrete changes, and a better 
inital release, we will gain more 
February 25 unless by the written communication system between 
student interest and support." 
request of the Universitythe student government and the The needs referred to are those Physician or the Psychologicalstudents. 
of "every-day" Jiving, he said. f\Prvires Center.
Although much of his platform 
"What good will increased !::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:~===~=~ 
Cultural Arts Commission's Performing Arts Series presents 
Clair's Knee 
directed by Eric Rohmer 
Fri. & Sat. Feb. 25 & 26 8&1 0 pm Engineering Auditorium 
Admission $1.00 PAS Patrons Free 








