On The Inside 
Chicago: the verdict is 
good  ... page 5  
First  round  chess  
pairings  ... page 6  




Vol. VII No. 17 serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Monday, October 2, 1972 


12 review commitments 
Committee to study priorities 
Hesburgh sets plans 
The University of Notre Dame has established a committee to study the future priorities of the institution. 
In a letter to the 12-man committee, which includes six faculty members, four administrators and two students, Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh, president of the University, noted that "no longer can every university hope or aspire to do Pvcrything good or desirable. Choosing becomes a matter of survival in a university world of seriously shrinking resources." 
He asked the committee "to study the present and, especially, the future of Notre Dame in an effort to determine what are the most important and indispensable elements of our total mission, the most essential as contrasted with that which might have seemed desirable under other cir­('umstances.'' 
Father Hesburgh also said that all segments of the llniversitv will be canvassed in the course of the committee's work. and that its report will be made to the Academic Council of the University begore being brought before the Board of Trustees. He gave no deadline for the committee's work. 
Burtchaell to chair 
Chairing the committee is Fr. James T. Burtchaell, provost. who noted that the group was the most important task force in recent University history. "In day-t()--{}ay 
Notre Dame's committee on University
operations we are always relying upon and modifying our 
Priorities: From the left background, Rev Er­
sense of priorities, particularly when we carry respon­
nan McMullin, Dr. Yusaku Furuhashi, Frank
siblility for all University programs. This committee's task 
Palopoli, Dr. James Daschbach, Howard
will be to step back from these ongoing priorities and 
criticize them," he said. 
The membership of the committee was suggested to Father Hesburgh by the steering committee of the Academic Council. Other than Father Burtchaell, the members of the committee are Fr. Ernan McMullin, professor of philosophy 
Text of Hesburgh letter 
and secretary to the group; Howard Bathon, a senior in liberal arts and chemical engineering; Fr. David Burrell, associate professor of theology and philosophy; Dr. James To: Members of the Committee ministrators, institutres, courses, resources. Daschbach, associate professor of aerospace and on University Priorities facilities, benifits, scholarships -­Each university must do this 
Rev. James T. Burtchaell, C.S.C., allreflected in a budget that grew task for itself, since each
mechanical engineering; James Frick, vice president for 
Chairman about 10 per cent every year. university is unique in its
public relations and development; Dr. Yusaku Furuhashi, 
This was a pleasant experience, resources, its nature and
professor of marketing management; Dr. Robert Gordon, 
From: Rev. Theodore M. 
even exhiliarating. Out hopes and traditions, its spedcial spirit, its
vice president for advanced studies; Dr. Timothy O'Meara, 
Hesburgh, Cl!a., President 
aspirations grew and were, in the
professor of mathematics; Frank Palopoli, a graduate relative size and excellence, its student in government and international studies; Dr. Dear Jim: main, realized. 'there seemed no geographic and scholarly location 
end to prosperity. Then suddenly, in the total spectrum of American
Thomas Shaffer, dean of the Law School, and Dr. Marshall 
Smelser, professor of history. This letter is addressed through it ended, for us and for all other higher education. There are those you , as chairman, to the Com­universityies, even the wealthiest. who bleieve, I among them, that mittee on Priorities. As I told you 
No longer could every university this excercies of setting priorities
six consultants at the time of your appointment hope or aspire to do everything is long overdue for most univer­two years ago, the most important good or desireable. Choosing sities. Serving as consultants will be Rev. Ferdinand Brown, problem facing the University in becomes a matter of survival in a If we must now undertake the the years immediately ahead is the 
associate provost; Dean Frederick Crosson of the university world of seriously task urgently and in the context of 
problem of priorities. shrinking survival, of
College of Arts and Letters; Dean Joseph Hogan of the resources. he most it may be one the 
For more than two decades since 
College of Engineering; Dean Thomas Murphy of the College serious choice is between all those unforseen blessings of the present of Business Administration; Daniel Osberger, assistant dean World War II, this University, like things a university might do, and financial crisis. 
many others, has been growing in those limited programs that a The charge to this committee is
of administration, and Dean Bernard Waldman of the College 
of Science. university can see itself doing well 
almost every direction: number of 
~·continued on page 7)

faculty members, students, ad-
within its limited range of 
WNDU revea1s seaet 
Jordanian prince sees game 
information that the King's Continuing Education where he
by John Abowd 
brother, not the King himself, attended the presidential luncheon 
Editor-in-Chit>£ 
would attend the football game; before every home game. according to Richard Conklin, During the game Hassan sat in
Under the watchful eyes of at 
director of Public Information. the second tier of the pressbox in
least four Secret Serveicemen Conklin added that the Prince's the university's private booth.
Crown Prince Hassan of Jordan visit was arranged by an Four Secret Servicemen werewatched the Fighting Irish trounce unidentified alumnus who is stationed on top of the press box.
Purdue 35-14. 
Hassan's legal counsel. The Crown Prince left' South Bend immediately after the game. Stayt>d Only Saturday Hassan became the legal heir to the Jordanian throne in 1965 when 
st"e game story page 8 
The Secret Service arrived in he was 17 years old. As Hussein's South Bend on Friday to prepare brother he was selected because for Hassan's arrival. the King himself married a 
The Prince landed at St. Joe commoner making his childrenHassan's visit was a well­Airport at 9:00 Saturday morning. ineligible for succession.
guarded secret until WNDU broke He spent the morning in private
the story on its Friday night news discussions with Fr. Theodore 
broadcast. When the Secret Hesburgh in the President's ad­
Purdue's dreams also went up in
Service discovered that the radio ministration building office. 
smoke as Saturday afternoon wore
station was announcing a visit by After a tour of the campus 
on for the Boilermakers.
King Hussein, they released the Hassan was taken to the Center for 


-_L ~--------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Monday, October 2, 1972
the observer 
Conklin becomes instant co-education expert 

started getting mail from placesby Jim Ferry like Yale, Bryn Mawr, andObserver Starr Reporter Wellesley asking for the complete 
Richard Conklin, Notre Dame dividual student. was successful in what it was survey and more information." Public Information Director, Conklin wrote that the incoming trying to do. It wasn't intended to "In fact, possibly the only place recently found himself an "instant female undergraduates are, in be a scientific study. It was just that had written to us that knew expert" concerning the new most respects, "remarkably like intended to be material for a less about coeducation than Notre coeducation found on the cam­the males who have inhabited the feature story in Notre Dame Dame, was Dartmouth, who had puses of America's universities. undergraduate domain. alone for magazine. just started coeducation. All of the 
It began with a feature story 130 years." After the magazine was printed, others knew far more about Conklin wrote for Notre Dame He went on to glean a few rough Conklin sent it out to different coeducation than Notre Dame." magazine this past summer. In it, statistics from the survey returns, educators "simply for their in­"It was good for all the women Conklin presented the results of an and he used large chunks of the formation." It was then picked up here, in the sense that they got informal survey conducted by his written objective part of the by the Washington based some publicity, but it's kind of an office. The survey, which had a 90 survey in the article. newsletter-Women Today. example of instant expertise. The per cent response, was sent out to "The whole idea of the survey "The way the story was reported data itself was only good for an 96 of N.D.'s incoming women was to give the alumni some sense in the newsletter implied that there interesting feature story." students, and dealt with career of what the new tradition of women was a very sophisticated survey on "I sent the only thing that I had goals, overall impressions of the at Notre Dame will be, and to give the role of women in higher to the schools that wrote, and that university, and currel}t topics of an idea of what the incoming education yet to come. So the story was just the magazine. Hopefully particular interest to the in-women thought. I think the article appeared, and lo and behold, I they'll understand that the story 
was not meant to be a scientific 
survey." 

Mr. Conklin felt that all the in-Four candidates vying t0 r terest generated by the story was 
indicative of how sensitive higher 
education had become to new 
developments in the education of 
women.

new student provost post 
He saw the whole situation as 
Four students have filled can­Godfather, plans to "restructure replied 1that he wanted his clique of didacy for the newly-ereated office student government along family "off campus math majors from of Student Provost. These four are lines." Michael Angelo Hartigani, Delaware who write for the Ob­Dennis Etienne or H-Man, the Godfather's Consigliori, in server" to be represented on currently Executive coordinator speaking for the Godfather, stated, student government. "I -realize that for the Kersten Administration; "The Godfather is the en­the office of Student Provost is Mike Baum; Don Mollet; and Don tertainment magnate on campus, rather a high position to be starting Guisseppe Russo, the Godfather. controlling the student concerts. out in," said Baum, "but since this 
The office of Student Provost Also, the Don has a plan whereby a year we are essentially a govern­was announced by Student Body great deal of revenue can be drawn ment of amateurs anyway, I am as President Bob Kersten in his in by Badin and Walsh Halls." The fully qualified as anyone to hold Campus-wide address last week. Consigliori would comment no office." The Provost ~s to assume the day­further. The fourth applicant is Don to-<lay powers now held by the Mike Baum is a senior math Mollet,il senior sociology major. student bodyf!resident, but subject major. When asked why he applied Mollet could not be reached for to the President's veto. for student provost, Baum comment. 
The appointment of the Student Provost is expected1 to' be an­nounced sometime early this week 
Chicanos' aim: Nobel
according to one stud~nt go-· vernment source. A special Ad Hoc committee composed of Kersten 

Peace Prize for Chavez 
and his advisor H-Man is to reach the final decision. One of the first priorities for 
Most indications point to H­Chicanos should be the nomination Man's appointment as provost. As of Cesar Chavez for the Nobel Executive Coordinator for King Peace Prize, the director of the Kersten, H-Man's duties already Mid-west council of La Raza told include near-total operation of the National Associatin of Human daily student government ac­Rights Workers in Kansas City tivities. ~~-addition H-Man's Monday(October 1.). presence on the two-man Ad Hoc Ricardo Parra delivered the committee virtually assures his position paper at a workshop appointment. discussing the "Chicano com­
munity" He is associated with the Don Giusseppe Russo, the 
'Institute for Urban Studies on the University of Notre Dame campus.
lnt1 students 

Calling for self-4deteiJDination for Chicanos to manage their own ·
to throw party 

schools and educational systems 
The International Students as well as determine their own 
Association will sponsor a political forms and leaders, Parra 
Welcoming Party on Friday, added, "The determination to 
October 6, according to ISA retain our culture and language, 
President Amaury Velez. emphasis on control and autonomy 
Due to limited space, members is often interpreted as separatism only will be admitted to the party, by some members of the dominant to be held at 8:30pm in Walsh Hall. society as well as some Mexican 
Admission is free. Americans who are committed to 

Knights of Columbus 
WILL HOLD AN 


ADMISSION DEGREE 
TONIGHT 
at 7:00pm 
Dues & Initiation Fee $18.50 Jacket & Tie Requested 
If interested in joining AND WANT MORE INFO CALL 2937018 
"amusing" and felt that it showed two things about today's society. 
"The role of women in society is definitely changing and there is a nation-wide sensitivity to this. Institutions of higher education are very serious in this sensitivity." 
BICYCLE SALE 

Savings up ·to 15% 
BICYCLE CENTER 
OPEN MONDAY 'TIL 1:30 PM Dally 9:30 'Ill 5:30 Phone 287-1623 1437 Portage Ave. 
South Bend's Newellt 110112 N. Main 

THE RED DOOR CLUB 
BEER * WINE * LIQUOR 
NO Night every Tuesday 
Memberships Available 
ANB 

OPEN 11 am to 3om 

If you are interested in representing the Engineering students on the University Academic Council, please submit your name and brief statement of purpose to Assistant Dean E. A .. Peretti, (Room 22 Engineering) by Noon, Thursday, October 5, 1972. 
assimilation." 

However, he said, the movement for self-determination actually represents a doctrine of cultural pluralism, which is opposed to the "basically racist model" of the melting-pot concept. 
He concluded by requesting everyone to join in boycotting iceberg lettuce, "now a green, leafy symbol of oppression," in support of United Farm Workers organizin attempts. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester ex­cl!pt vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's Collegj!: Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester (1~ per vewl from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. • Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

Cultural Arts Commission 
1972 1973 
DANCE and DRAMA SERIES 
featuring 
MARCEL MARCEAU "The World's Greatest Mime" 
OCT 17th  National Players  
Aristophane's "THE BIRDS"  
NOV  4th  The Second City Players  
FEB  16th  Marcel Marceau  
FEB  27th  Saeko lchinoheJapanese Ballet Co.  

Plus·One More Event To Be Announced 
PATRONS AOMITTED FREEl 
Patron Card for All 5 Events $7.00 
Sales Will Begin In Dining Halls Next Week 
Monday, October 2, 1972 
the observer 

warld briefs 
(c) 1972 New York Times 
Manile--Juan Ponce Enriles, 'defense secretary of the Phillipines, whose country is under martial law, said the power of the gun will be completely eliminated from public life in the Phillippines when the drive now under way to collect firearms from private hands is com­pleted. Not even policemen will carry firearms or knives and soldiers will be prohibitied form carrying weapons when not on active duty, he said. 
New York--Navy Lt. Mark L. Gartley, one of the three pilots freed by Hanoi, said that his treatment in a North Vietnamese prison camp was "humane" affirmed that he had not been mistreated and pictured prison conditions in North Vietnam as steadily improving. He also disclosed at a news conference at St. Albans Naval Hospital taht he had been promoted one rank from Lieutenant junior grade. . 
Washington--Sen. George McGovern whose presidential candidacy was founded on a pledge to obtain peace in Vietnam, will spell out in the next few days a detailed plan to end the war, his wife Eleanor said on a television interview program. Mrs. McGovern said her husband would address himself soon to "specific plans he has for ending the war" The senator accompanied his wife to the 1television studio, but remained in the background. 
New York--How could a quarter million or more Puerto Ricans simply vanish in New York City? This essentially is the angry question that unbelieving Puerto Rican community leaders are asking the federal government, contending that there was a drastic undercount in the 1970 census; that severely injures their political "clout" and chances for obtaining federal economic aid. But the census bureau is standing by its figures. 
an campus laday 
3:30 --film, Kenneth Clark Film Series, romance and reality: high gothic world of the 13th and 14th centuries, engineering auditiorium 
7:30 
--duplicate bridge, :rathskellar, Iafortune 

7:30 
--meeting, celtic society, international room, basement, Iafortune. 


8:00 
·· lecture, united states and latin america: from domination to. partnership? a. glenn mower jr., memorial library auditorium 

8:00 
--lecture philosophy of language series, the data and problems of philosophy of language, max black, new biology building 


7:00-11:00 --tournament, observer chess club chess tournament, rathskellar, Iafortune 
at nd-smc 
Baltic Club plans projects 
The recently-formed Notre Dame Baltic Society held its second meeting on September 27. 
Student Union 
initiates new gripe procedure 
Got a gripe about Student Union? 
The Union is starting a com­plaint procedure to handle questions about scheduling, tickets, programs, and procedures, according to Gregg Vesonder ,) the union executive coordinator. 
Vesonder will direct the effort 
"to let students know we're in­
terested in their problems and 
trying to expedite the solutions." 
"We expect to handle such 
problems as place and times of 
events, overlapping activities, 
availability of tickets and general 
Student Union suggestions," 
Vesonder added, stressing that 
"the idea is to handle strictly union 
problems, not the things handled 
by the student government Om­
budsman." The number to call is 
7757 or 1758. 
The club's purpose is to serve as a studies and information center for those interested in the Baltic cultures; and to bring the problems of the Baltic countries, currently under Soviet domination, to the attention of other students. 
Fund-raising projects will in­clude a Lithuanian Film Festival, and an excursion to Chicago on October 21 (after the football game) to see the Cleveland Folk Dance group Curlionio Ensemblis. 
The informal studies already inititated include: the per­secutions of minority groups in the USSR; the recent history of the Lithuanian resistance movement; and the developing ethnic con­sciousness in America. 
Next semester's university. accredited courses will include a Lithuanian language seminar taught by Professor Sesplaukis, and possibly a Baltic Culture' course taught by Professor Rubulis. As the Lithuanian language is the oldest spoken i language in Europe, closely related to Sanskrit, it is important! in linguistical studies, and similar! courses are taught at Columbia University and the University of Chicago. 
Anyone interested in registering for these courses, or going on the Chicago trip, may contact Ray Cepulis at 8730. 
ATTENTION SENIOR GUYS!!I Here's your chance for one last big fling: 
J 

Strong Domer Needed to Fill Position on CHEERLEADING SQUAD 
TRYOUTS: Tuesday Night 
6:30 Stephan Center for more info co II: 41 06 
UNIVERSITY ACADEMIC COUNCIL 
Applications Accepted 
NOW THROUGH TUES. OCT. 3 FOR POSITIONS IN THE COLLEGES OF SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING 
Applicants should submit resumes to Dean's 
office in their respective colleges. Interviews 
will be \conducted next week. 
TOBACCO HUT. LTD. 
Now open to serve you Specializing in: Pipes Accessories Bulk Custom Blending Tobaccos 

VISIT US SOON 
136 W. Washington South Bend Ph. 233-4943 
WHY PAY THROUGH YOUR NOSE TO SATISFY YOUR EARS? 
LEE LOUDSPEAKER SYSTEMS (Patents applied for) 
You buy them factory direct. Their enclosures are of the finest oil rubbed walnut. They carry a free 5 year factory warranty. Yet, most important of all, we are conviced that they will easily out perform any make of loudspeakers selling for twice their price. In face, we strongly urge you to compare their audio reproductive qualities, under equal conditions of placement and loudness, to any other loudspeaker available-no matter how large or expensive they may be. You've got to hear them to believe them, so see our campus representative tor a demonstration and free brochure. 
Model LD-6, 18"-14"--8" deep, $39.97 each. Model LD-8, 18"-11"-12" deep, $49.97 each. Model LD-26, 22"-14"-12 1-8" deep, $65.97 each. 
36 WATT AM+FM MPX STEREO RECEIVER W-8-TRACK TAPE PLAYER AND TWO AIR SUSPENSION SPEAKERS 
This is easily a $149.95 value, your price is only $98.32. Mode. 8216 
8-TRACK STEREO CARTRIDGE TAPE PLAYER 
Normally sells for $49.95, vour price is only $31.73, Model 16247 
AC-DC CASSETTE TAPE RECORDER 
An ideal lecture recorder. Comes complete with AC line cord, 4 "C" cell batteries, carrying strap remote control microphone, push button controls. A $44.95 value, your price is only $31.66. Model Br 
380 

AM-FM AFC DIGITAL CLOCK RADIO 
Deluxe walnut grained vinyl clad wood cabinet, quality Am-Fm radio with AFC, silhouette lighted digital clock with large numerals, back lighted radio dial, loaded with extras. A $44.95 value, your price is onlY $33.17 Model 15227. 
5 year factory warranty on Lee Loudspeaker Systems, 90 day factory warranty on all other products. We pay the freight and shipping charges, and give you a 15 day money back satisfaction 
guarantee. 

... --------------­
TO ORDER: SIMPLY FILL IN THIS COu'PON AND SEND IT ' ALONG WITH A CERTIFIED CHECK OR MONEY ORDER TO; t 
• LEE ELECTRONICS MFG., LTD., P.O. BOX 5, N ELM ST., '• THREE OAKS, MICHIGAN, 49128, (616) 756-9122. t 
t PLEASE RUSH ME ( ) MODEL t 
I HAVE ENCLOSED A CERTIFIED CHECK OR MONEY ORDER 
t 
IN THE AMOUNT OF
• 
t

• 
NAME 



' DATE • ~ STREET ADDRESS • 
CITY------------------­
t •
•

' STATE------------------------­
ZIP CODE 

t 
t NOTE: ALLO_W ~a DAYS FOR DELIVERY-A LITTLE LONGER t FOR PERSONAL CHECKS : •
t.. 

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION: .
-------------~­
WRITE TO US, OR SEE OUR CAMPUS REPRESENTATIVE STEVE MAGDZINSKI 232 STANDFORD HALL N.D.U., 283-8650 
TalkinCJ Did Saldiers
THE OBSERVER 
The Notre
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Dame ManNews: 283-1715 Editorials printed in The Observer reflect the opinion of the wnter, Editorial: 283-8661 on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the Business: 283-7471 individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial comment. 
Monday, October 2, 1972 
fred filiuffrida 
The Administration's Committee on University Priorities 
The appointment of the Committee on University Priotities is an important, though long overdue one. As Fr. Hesburgh astutely observes, "All ad­ministrative decisions are an act of priority setting." This attitude is a critical fault of the past. Administrative decisions have shaped the university's priorities rather than vice versa. 
There are two major advantages ushered in by the appointment of the committee. The first is that the com­mittee is to take a comprehensive view of the future of Notre Dame. Clearly, financial resources limit the pursuits of the future. Given this limitation, it is certain that a view weighing the relative values of prospective goals is far superior to the piecemeal views of different bodies and personages that are currently guiding Notre Dame into the future. 
The second advantage is that the decision about the university's future is open to the entire community. The committee is made up of students and faculty, as well as administrators. Furthermore, there is the promise that all members of the University com­munity will be canvassed. 
However, on closer scrutiny, this openness is suspect. To say the least, the committee's members were carefully selected. 
It is most significant that not one of the thirty-one faculty members who signed "The Future at Notre Dame", last spring's letter questioning the direction 
of the university under its present leadership, is seated on the committee. At the same time, three of the thirty-one signers of the subsequent letter defending 
the current administration are among the six faculty members appointed. 
More obvious is the presence of only one undergraduate, and he one that was chosen by the administration to represent the students. This certainly seems to be a' less than adequate voice for the largest sector of the community. 
Finally, given past history of Notre Dame committees in general and the makeup of this particular committee, it is clear that the act of canvassing will not insure the respondents an adequate voice inn this most important of all issues. And surely, discussion in the Academic Council, that body which is so completely dominated by the personality of Fr. Hesburgh, will not remedy the situation. 
In short, the powers that be are once again in position to controlthe decisions of this committee. This would be coun­terproductive . Itwould cut the value of this project in half by eliminating the second advantage. 
If the committee wishes to make the most of its enterprise, it must subject its decisions and (!Ccompanying options and considerations to constant public scrutiny. This may make things more difficult, but, in light of the above, it is the 
only  manner  by  which a  meaningful  
decision can be made.  
Fred Giuffrida  

It's Saturday night again. I'm stuck in my room in Mornssey's basement with a jungle of pipes hanging over me and a dead roach lying at my feet. I've been staring at the walls, but all I see is a faded poster of a writhing Mick Jagger glaring across at the scripted verses of "The Sounds of Silence." 
I've been here before -oh many times -but tonight I just cannot seem to pass the hours. I'd go to bed, but there's a dull, driving noise coming from across the hall. The boys are in there drinking again. I did that last night! And you know, for a while, things were really pretty good; but today everything was back to normal. And, what's worse, we wasted last night! Jerry couldn't even remember what he did. But everybody assured him that he was 'the greatest'. So he was contented. 
I used to be a real party boy my first two years. We got drunk almost every weekend freshman year. And last year we alternated drinking with smoking dope. At least, getting stoned didn't leave you with a hangover. Those were the days! 
No, that's a lie! It's pure bullshit. Those days were just as miserable ... but I never said that before. 
Maybe I'd better stop here and go down to Mass. That's another thing! I wonder why I go there-I don't pay any attention anyway. I guess it's just because I've always gone. 
It's a lot like always wanting to go to law school. I wondered about that the other day.' What would I do if I didn't go to law school'? I couldn't imagine! What else do government majors do? Well, at least I've got another year to worry about that one. 
What I'm worrying about now is how I'm going to pass this night. The noise has grown to a din. It sounds like the boys finally got some girls over at one of their parties. That never leads to much anyway. After we make like kangaroos for about three hours, there are two basic endings. The first and foremost is that the girls will leave, as they came, in groups of three or four. Of course, the other road is Paul's specialty. He's been laid three out of five weekends this year! And never the same girl! I wish I knew how he does it. Or maybe why he does it. He doesn't seem any happier than the rest of us -except when he's telling us about it! Maybe that's the key. 
I never tried that myself. Freshman year I had an HTH and I satisfied myself writing letters and thinking fond thoughts. Last year I was too wrecked to do anything. How it's probably too late, Of course, what's coed for'? .. 
No, I'm sick of parties. The noise is terrible. The guys think there is something wrong with me now. "Hey, how come you didn't make the party last night?" they'll say. What'll I tell them'? 
You'd think that all of this knowledge I'm supposed to be getting would help me answer. When you cut through the bull, once in a while, you find somebody trying to answer the important questions. It's really pretty settling to see an answer right down there on paper. There are even a couple of guys who try to live these answers. Maybe they're happy. Maybe they're no better than us drunks. I just can't buy those answers. I can't put by teeth into them. They're just not my answers! 
You know. the one thing nice about this room is that I've got a decent view of the lake, There's something that's real. I can put my hands on it. And on certain nights, the moon shines across it and makes a path­way that makes me think I should follow it and walk on ad infinitum. But wqere would I go? To Holy Cross, I guess; where else'? 
There sure sounds like a lot of girls across the hall. Maybe I'll just take a peek over there after all ... 
IllRllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllD1111111111111111111111UIIIIIIIIIIIII1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111DIIIII 
Letters 
on the war and a memorial service 
This letter was sent to Fr. David Burrell. the chairman of the theology Department, and for­warded to the observer by him for publication. With it, he wishes to announce an organizational meeting for those interested in the proposition of the letter at 8:00pm on Tuesday, October 3 in the Grace Hall conversation pit.--ed. 
Dear Fr. Burrell, 

You probably don't remember 
me. When you were the rector of 
Morrissey Hall I was living in 
room 124. I mostly played Rugby, 
got C's, and drank a lot of beer 
down at Corby's when they weren't 
checking J.D.'s. When I graduated 
in 1970 I was commissioned as an 
Ensign in the U.S. Navy. It was the 
year President Nixon invaded 
Cambodia and four students were 
killed at Kent State. 

When I was in the Navy I learned 
many things. Mostly I learned the 
most sophisticated method of 
killing people from a long way off. 
I was stationed on an Attack 
Carrier which was going through a 
one year overhaul before 
deployment to SEAsia. During 
that year I read a few books Fr. 
Amon gave me before I went into 
the Navy. They were on Non­
violence, and they had a lot to do with why I'm writting to you now. 
Right now I'm doing draft and military counseling in Denver. We call ourselves Rocky Mountain Military Project. Clergy and Laity Concerned has an office right above ours, and every now and then we get together and do a project. The Air Force Academy has been the focus of a number of these projects. 
We have made attempts to speak with cadets, expose them to nonviolent alternatives to war, and to the reality of todays electronic warfare in SEAsia.· We are now prepairing another round with the monolithic war machine and we're wondering -hoping the community of Notre Dame might help us in our efforts. On Nov. 11-12 the A.F.A. plays Notre Dame for their Homecoming football game. During the Homecoming weekend 
.he Academy has a memorial ~~,rvice for Academy graduates ~led, prisoners, or MIA's. We seJ11. the head Chaplain, Colonel John l)enehy, a letter asking if a spokesoerson from our group could join in t(le memorial service. 
Are thete people at Notre Dame who wouni be interested in assisting us 1t1 our efforts to bring attention to tne continueing air­war'? Is there a priest who might write a similar letter asking to be part of the memorial service with Clergy and Laity'? Are students at Notre Dame still working for peace'? If you could assist us in any way or get us in touch with people (student body president'?) in the Notre Dame St. Mary's Community who would be in­terested iH such a project please write, or have them write, or call, or anything. 
In Peace and Struggle, 
Paul Rogers 

This is the enclosed copy of the aforementioned letter to Colonel John Derehy, requesting par­ticipation in the memorial service. 
Dear Chaplain Denehy: 

We hope that you are as en­couraged as we are by the recent release of three American prisoners by the North Viet­namese. We believe that all 'Americans, regardless of their position on the continuing air wa, can rejoice in this hopeful release of American prisoners. 
It is our hope that we might join with you in expressing our com­mon concern over the lives of American prisoners and our common nope for their release. We believe an especially ap­propriate time to express this concern would be in conjunction with the Air Force Academy Homecoming activities the week end of November 11-12. We un­derstand that in the past a memorial service has often been held during Homecoming for Air Force Academy graduates killed, held prisoner, r missing in action in Indochina. 
We would be most appreciative if a representative of our group could have a small part in helping conduct this Homecoming memorial service. We feel this is especially appropriate as everyone shares concern for the release of American prisoners, regardless of different convictions about the best solution to the Indochina War. If this is not possible, a number of people from our group would at least like to attend the Homecoming memorial service. 
We hope that we might share in the Homecoming memorial ser­vice in some way. If this is not possible, we welcome an op­portunity to discuss with you other ways in which we . might express our common concern for the release of American prisoners and an end to the Indochina War. 
Duane Call Co-Director 
Thomas Rauch Co-Director 

the observer 
editorial staff 

Editor-in-chief: John Abowd Executive editor: Don Ruane News ed.itor: Jerry Lutkus Managing editor: Joe Abell St. Mary's editor: Maria Gallagher Editorial editor: Fred Giuffrida Features editor: Rod Braye Sports editor: Jim Donaldson Campus editor: Ann Theresa 
Darin Associate editors:Ed Ellis, Bob ,Higgins Special projectseditor:Anthony Abowd 
business staff 

Business manager: Dan Thornton Advertising ma·nager: Joe Butler 
issue staff 

Night editor: IVIarlene Zloza 
Ass't night editor: Chris Sullivan 
Ass't. features editor: Jane 
O'Donnell 

Day editor: Tom Bornholdt 
La-yout: -Kathy l<elly,Mike Baum Headlines: Phil Orscheln . Typists:Mark Niederkorn, MarY Romer, Steve Roper,How;lrd Halle Night controller: David Rust Driver: Joe.Abell 



Monday, October 2, 1972 the observer 
The Dne Last Weekend 
chicago: good times with old friends 
;asephabell 
Chicago is an incredibly active group-­they tour more than any group I know <I think I heard some figures say something like 80 percent of their time is spent touring). Therefore, it's not unusual for most people to have seen Chicago more than once. 
This was my fifth time, so they're almost like old friends to me. The last time I saw them was two years ago when they came to ND. and not much has changed. A few new faces along with many old smiles and the usual enthusiastic applause for a perennial favorite. 
I suppose the reason I look forward to seeing them each time <normally, seeing an act five times can be a little boring> is the rare enthusiasm the group itself has. Few groups have I seen that are actually happy and joking among themselves. I've yet to see Jimmy Pankow or Walt Parazaider in concert when they haven't been in the best of spirits. Always grinning foolishly, always getting into music that surely must be ridiculously tiresome for them, always heartily accepting applause with a loud "Thank you!" they make the show come alive with more than good music, but also good cheer. 
But they sure don't scrimp on the music. Providing over two hours and a half of solid 
music  is  quite  a  task  for  any  group,  
especially  one  that  tours  as  much  as  
Chicago.  

To list the songs they played would entail listing a good chunk of most of their albums. Some were long, like the "Ballet For a Girl in Buchanan," some short like the ever­favorite "Beginnings." Some were old, like "Questions 67 and 68," some new, like a"A Hit by Varese." Some were loud, like 
"Dialogue,"some were soft, like "Colour My World." Some were received more en­thusiastically, like "Free," some hit a dead audience, like "All is Well." Watching the group more than made up for the dissap­pointing songs, though. Seeing Terry Kath's finger blur on both hands and knowing he wasn't strumming chords, but plucking notes. fascinated. Listening to Walt Parazaider's flute solos. where even the high notes came through clear and evenly, entranced. Watching Dan Seraphine go nuts for two hours pounding away astounded. 
There was one thing significantly dif­ferent about this concert than the other four I've been to. however: the uneven texture of the different songs. The group would sandwich a slow. jazzy song from Chicago v between two rockers from an earlier LP. 
The entire first half of the show was taken 
solely from I and V. Maybe this was to point 
up the long way the group's sound has come 
in the time they've been together. That's 
great for the historians, but it tends to 
dissappoint audiences in live shows. 
Nobody likes to be taken on an unexpected 
roller-coaster ride. 

The second half was a little more coherent. The group drew more from the "mid-albums," II and III. This was what the crowd wanted, and they got it in good size quantities. 
Sure, this concert was familiar; I could almost have written this review before it started. But I still wouldn't have missed it. 

The _li~t~e personal touches the group has a senst~tvtty for, hke incorporating the fight song mto two solos and exploding into this crowd's favorite, "25 or 6 to 4," for an en­core, are more than sufficient cause to see t?e act for a fifth, sixth seventh, and eighth lime. 
The show was a good one. But everybody's always glad to see old friends. 



Little Bir:~ Screen art ferranti 
If you have exams or papers coming up in remember, Crenna was in another fooball the near future, you will never find a better flick called .John Goldfarb, Please Come opportunity than this week to do or study for Home or some such nonsense, in which the them. This week offers absolutely nothing worst team in the world beats Notre Dame until Friday as far as the prime-time in tis most popular sport. For the record, 
movies on TV are concerned. However, tonight is Johnny Carson's tenth An­niversary show and it promises to be the highlight of the week (next to our ND's putting the lid on the Boilermakers Saturdayl. Scheduled guests on Carson's show include Governor Regan of California, Jack Benny, Joey Bishop, Dean Martin Rowan and Martin, Jerry Lewis, George Burns, Dinah Shore, Don Rickles, and Carol Wayne. Film clips of the last ten years will also be featured. · 
Back to the movies. Friday and Saturday nights have the only two good flicks with To 
Sir with Love (Fri. 22, 8:00 pm) and Marooned <Sat. ,16, 8:00pm). In the former, Sidney Poitier portrays a teacher with a new idea for a class in one of the poorer areas of London 'The students can discuss whatever they wish with Poitier helping out occasionally. A girl (Judy Geeson) develops a crush on the teacher and the class tough guy tries to provoke our hero into a brawl. Despite the typical schmaltz this 1967 flick is worththe watching. Besides, some of the class's deviance may help you to liven up a dull seminar or two. 
Marooned has /David Jansen, James Franciscus, GeneHackmanand a number of other "stars" in one of the better science fiction films to be produced after the movie screens were flooded with astronauts, monsters and gorillas following the releases of 2001 :A Space Odyssey, and The Planet of the Apes . In tl:iis one, three Apollo astronauts are stranded out in space and the rescue efforts of mission control and the strain of the astronauts' wives, are dramatized. Just to keep the suspense up for those who have not seen it yet , not all the astronauts make it. 
What is left is worthless. Clint Eastwood portrays Clint Eastwood in The Beguiled · on Monday night in which he gets his' leg chopped off during the civil war. John Wayne plays John Wayne on Thursday night with some help from Rock Hudson in the 'Undefeatea. They aren't. The three made­for-TV films look just as bad. Playmates on Tuesday does not concern itself with Hef­ner's finest but with "swinging couples."Also on Tuesday, 22 has Footsteps About Football with Richard Crenna (also in Marooned). But do not watch it for the sake of football. It is no Brians's Song. If you ND sued for libel. In the lack of originality dept., Rolling Man on Wednesday has Dennis Weaver as an ex-con trying to put back together his life. 
Last week I made some predictions about what shows I thought would be cancelled. Due to a lack of space, the rest of the column was cut off. To avoid allegations of bias I had included a few sentences explaining that I do like a few of the programs listed and that I am not particularly interested in a few that would endure either. This is merely to clarify the matter since a few people have accosted me concerning the predictions. Of course my ego was boosted to find that somewhere this column is being read. 
Trivia Stan Urankar of WSND reminded me that I had forgotten to mention Roger Moore's first series in my first column a couple of weeks ago. He played cousin Beau Maverick in the series Maverick with J~mes Garner and Jack Kelly as brothers Bret and Bart respectively. Incidentally therewas also another Maverick, Brent. A free plug for whoever can name th actor who played him. 
Old radio fans, The Lone Ranger is playing on WSND AM and FM every Thur­sday night at 11:00. 
Starting with this week, I shall have one trivia question with the answer somewhere on this page (if the layout man doesn't forget! ) This week the question is an easy one. If you saw Carson last week I un­derstan.d he asked it and it appeared in the latest issue of TV guide. Take notes because I think you can guess who is making up questions forthisyear's TRIVIA BOWL at An Tostal. · 
Here it is: What is the name of Marshal 
Dillon's horse on Gunsmoke? Is it 
a.) Marshal 
b.) Dillon 
c.) Kitty 
d.) Dexter 
e. l fill-in.......... . 
reqsJeru .e-­
I-\ 
~ ~ .
:~,-,?~
I 
iti"~-~q
>\~ ~ IM ~I 

the observer Monday, October 2, 1972\ 
7:00 in Rathskellar 
Chess tot1mament begins tonight
:•a-UUiilliiiMIIIiiiiiiihiiiiilillllltiiiiiHIIIIIIIII UIIIIIIIILIIIIIIHIIIIIUIIIH 
1W Mike Antolino (1262) B John McClallum (7874) 2B John Kelley (8765) W Joe Wilkowski (1412) 3W Steve Pettit ~t286) B Philip Reilly (8918) 4B Lorring Hannah 0316) W Mark Parker (6325) 5W Chris Kolhrnetter (1177) B Jim Talumo (8291) 6B Jerome Glilka (1598) W George Grimm (3174) 7W Steve Osborne 0781) B Dan Pdlasck (6781) RB Geoffrey ilui (7963) W Frank Foretta (272-1365) 9W Pierre E~penan 0038) B Joseph Mesure (7978) JOB Paul Bo}due (272-7405) W John Weaver 0740) llW Joe Sitter (8571) B Pat Gribbs (234-6584) 12B Jim Publicover (1522) W Amer Lukmani (232-6787) 13W Peter Kappner (8892) B Ed Perry (3114) 14B Ernest Szusz (289-4119) W Mark Mutz (1093) 15W James Hanrohan 0201) B Francis Finnigan (3589) 16B DaQ Thorton (1487) W Ted Krebsback (3591) 17W Mike Harvey (7791) B Steve Locher (233-9406) 18B Glen Sorge (234-6274) W Jim Keenan (3317) 19W Dave Rohmer 0298) B John Moran (6727) 20B Tony Arena 0062) W Ralph Trofino (8325) 21W T, Michael Crowley (1583) B Tim Tobin (3895) 22B Ji;\t Nowalk (8371) W Kevin O'Connell (6795) 23W Ted Arsu (6349) B. E. Zagrams 24B David Yates (8406) W Larry Asignol (1735) 25W Dan Wenhoff (1388} B Bob Trizna (1679) 26B Kevin Fitzpatrick (8658) W Tom Conway (234-3345) 27W Richard De Saussure (1372) B Mark Carnes (1724) 2RB George Degrange (3714) W Luis Corballo (272-7405) 29W Bob Sehott (5612) B Charles Grimm (3264) 30B Jim Hyland (1496) W Tom Bornholdt (8455) 31W I....ou Campagna (233-430Q) B Dwight Griffin (8604) 32B Tom Spinur (3423) W Mike Slottery (8286) 33W Ken Bachman (272-0509) B AI Mendez (8876) 34B Ken Kampman (8810) W Mike Sayers (1059) 35W Samuel Snapiro (234-9648) B Chester Daigle (8977) :l6B David Downka (234-1385) W Aefrulo Andrade (1874) 37W Iyer Hariharun (234-9292) B Jerry Clarke (234-7792) 
IIIU.IUUPIIIDlmlli Uii IIIDIIIUIUDIDIIIHIIHIIIIIIIIIIILIIIIIIIIIIIII 
<Cl 1!172 New York Times News Servicl' 
New York, Oct. 1--The an­niversary of the establishment of the communist government in Peking was celebrated here of­ficially for the first time tonight. Huang Hua, Chica's chief representative to the Unitted Nations, gave a reception at the mission's headquarters. 
Huang, who replaced the Chinese Nationalist delegation last year as the legitimate represen­tative of China, invited overseas Chinese in the New York area who are sympathetic to Peking as well as other "close friends." 
The reception took place one day after the mission was besieged by sever_al hun?red egg-throwing, chantmg Chmese demonstrators who demanded the expulsion of the Communists and the reseating of the Chinese Nationalists in the United Nations. 
Many of tonight's guests, as well as the demonstrators Saturday, harbored passionate feelings on 
Elections for the offices of fresh­man class president, vice­president, treasurer and secretary will be held in the residence halls, Thursday, October 12. 
Campaigning begins Sunday, October 8 at 6:00 p.m. and ends Wednesday, Oct. 11 at midnight. Candidates are limited to $30 budget and tickets are allowed. 
Campaign posters can be no larger than 81hinches by 14 inches and may hnot be placed on trees, in the dining halls, or where prohibited. 
To place your name on the ballot, a petition bearing the names and addresses of 100 frosh must be turned in to the student govern­ment office by 5:00 p.m., Friday, October 6. Names will be placed on the ballot in random order and not by tickets. 
There is a meeting tonight 

6:30 on the second floor LaFortune for all those tPrP~tPnl 'in seeking office. Duties, cam­paigns, etc. will be explained at this time. For more information, call David Yates, Sophmore class president, number: 8406. 
CULTURAL ARTS COMMISSION 
and the SOUTH BEND ART CENTER present 
The Art Conservator * Kinetic Art in Paris * The Impressionists 
(Segment Ill of MUSEUM WITHOUT WALLS) 
Monday, October 2  Admission:  
at 8:00 &  lO:OOpm  $1.50 (Student-Faculty)  
Engineering Auditorium  Series' Ticket Holders free  

The Observer-Chess Club Chess where it will remain for the rest of 
Tournament begins play tonight in the week. the Rathskellar of LaFortune The pairings listed here are for Student Center at 7:00. Tomorrow tonight's first round. All playersnight's action moves to the Fiesta must be present for play at 7:00 or Lounge (third floor LaFortune) have notified tournament directors 
Fr. Botz.ulll returns topsychology faculty 
asked to submit suggestions for a Father William A. Botzum successor to Dr. Robert E. Gordon, 
assistant vice president fo~ vice-president for Advance graduation insturction at the Studies, who will make a recom­
Uni'Versity of Notre Dame, has mendation to Rev. Theodore M. resumed his professorship in the Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the ~epartment of Psychology after University.six in the University's
years 

Graduate School office. 
Father Botzum received his undergraduate training at Notre Daem and his Ph. D. in psychology from the University of Chicago in 1948. He taught and held ad­ministrative positions at the University of Portland before joining Notre Dame's ad­ministration in 1966 a s associate dean of the Graduate School. 
Members of the Graduate Council and the University Committee on Research and sponsored Programs have been 
Chinese diplolnats celebrate anniversary of revolution in N.Y.~ 
Class elections for freshznen scheduled 
the Communist-Nationalist despute. Despite the intensity of the feelings of both gronps, however, the majority of the Chinese in the New York area including the Chinatown com~ munity, appeared largely un­perturbed. 
Many signs put up last week in Chinatown when Premier Kakuei Tanaka of Japan reached agreement in Peking with Premier Chou En-lai of China to establish deplomatic relations, denounced "new Japanese militarism." 
A large number of people active in the Nationalist cause are students who came from Taiwan only a few years ago. Others are 
children of Nationalist government 
officials, or have qusiness dealings 
with Taiwan. 
However, several of those most active in the pro-Peking movement are also children of high Nationalist officials who have broken away from their parents' political beliefs. Others include · young university faculty members and 
PITTSBURGH® PAINTS 

Notre Dame Student Discount 
-30% 15% off unpainted furniture 
333 S. Michigan 289-2439 

at 8661 by 8:00 if they are for­feiting. Late matches can be arranged between contestants but only if the directors have been notified. The results of all matches must be turned in· by 11 :00. ID's are required to register: see a tournament director. Contestants are asked to record their play. 
The pairings list designates the color piece that will be played by each contestants. 
All participants are requested to bring boards and pieces with them. 
Prizes have not been finalized, but the Chess Club hopes to have a $100 first prize, a $75 second prize, and a $40 third. Any late registrants may stop by the Ob­server office between 5:30 and 
6:00. Late registration fee is $2.00. 

IT'S A HARD PROPOSITION TO BEAT? 
If you get the feeling you're spending too much time with the books.... 
we may have the solution. Ours is a course in reading efficiency that mean we teach more than speed. Our course emphasizes study techniques, recall skills and flexibility of rate as well. Let us demonstrate to you the 
dynamics of today's most comprehensive reading course in a free Speed Reading Lesson. 
INCREASE YOUR READING SPEED 50 TO 100% ON THE SPOT! 
TODAY 6, and 8, pm TOMORROW 6, and 8 pm 
CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION NOTRE DAME AVENUE 
EVELYN WOOD READING DYNAMICS 
• 
Monday, October 2, 1972 the observer 
Perelman returns to NYC 
by Israel Shenker for anyone to be," he .said. "When (c) \972 New York Times News you first return, the city seems Service very distressing, and all the things 

New York-8. J. Perelman, the we know about New York are man without a country home, has true-the dirt, the disorder, the returned to his native New York violence. But I find myself City. adapting: I walk on the balls of my 
"English life, while very feet at night. pleasant, is rather bland," he said. "Having been born here, I guess "I expected kindness and gentility I wouldn't want to renounce my and I found it, but there is such a birthright. Perhaps, just barely thing as too much couth. perhaps, it's necessary to go 
"Their rye bread has no somewhere else to get a view of caraway seeds, and their name for one's city. corned beef is salt beef-and it "When I'm away, I miss the doesn't com pare with what you can tension, the give and take:! feel it's get on the Upper West Side or on a great mistake for any writer to the Lower East side" (sections of cut himself off from his roots. New York City). One's work suffers by trying to 
When he left these shores, two transplant it to another milieu. years ago, his appetites for the "My style is haut melange-a pleasqres of New York were sated, mixture of all the sludge I read as a and he was dimly perceived to be child, all the cliches, liberal doses uttering a plague on all its houses. of Yiddish, criminal slang and 
"New York was then-and it still some of what I was taught in a 
obviously is-a very difficult place Providence, Rhode Island, school 
Hesburgh letter text 
(continued from page 1) 
best expressed in the broadest terms: to study the present and , especially, the'futureof Notre Dame in an effort to determine what are the most important and in­dispensable elements of our total mission, the most essential as contrasted with that which might have seemed desirable under other circumstances. We cannot have the best of all worlds, but we must plan on principle to achieve what is best for us in our present world, what we can do superbly, and what will in the foreseeable future likely 
be  a  mediocre  or  second-rate  
performance  on  our  part,  for  a  
variety of reasons.  

-411 administrative decisions are an act of priority setting.There is however, a deeper need today for setting total priorities within the broadest range of all the op­portunities that face us. 
The work of the Committee on Priorities is the beginning of a reasonably long and very im­portant process that will ul­timately involve all of us at Notre Dnme, since whatever we decide together, we will also have to effect together. 
All members of our University community will therefore, be canvassed in the course of theCommittee's deliberations. Your Committee will have access to all relevant information. Your report will be made to the Academic Council for its further consideration. Ultimately, the Board of Trustees will also become involved. 
I am sure I speak for all at Notre, Dame when I thank you and the members of your Committee for your willingness to bring you best talent and wisdon to this endeavor that will, hopefully, create here an academic institution that is not only excellent in all its endeavors, but viable too, for the long years ahead. 
Devotedly yours in Notre Dame, 
(Rev.) Theodore M. Hesburgh, 
c.s.c. 
President 
SPECIAL 
by impatient teachers. When I tried to think of an idiomatic ex­pression in London, I had to reach for it. I felt out of touch with the idiom." 
In England he felt forcibly retired: "So much of English life is designed to avoid incident-'So sorry,' 'Excuse me'-they're erecting a hedge around them­selves." 
And he suffered the pangs of sloth: "Have you ever gone to a doctor to have him remove your sloth?" 
'Phil~ophy of Language' 
series here 
Four noted educators will 
participate in the 1972-73 Per· 
spective series of the Department 
of Philosophy at the University of 
Notre Dame. Each speaker will bt 
in residence one week and present 
three public lectures. 
The first speaker on tht 
series 'theme, "Philosophy of 
Language," will be Max Black of 
Cornell University at 8 pm October 
2 and 4 in the Galvin Life SciencE 
Center auditorium and 3:30 o~ 
October 6 in the Memorial Librar~ 
Auditorium. 
Donald Davidson of Rockefeller 
University will speak at 8 pm or 
November 27 and 29 in the Galvir 
Life Science Center auditorium 
and at 3:330 December 1 in thE 
Memorial Library auditorium. 
Spring semester speakers in· 
elude John R. Searle of thE 
University of California at
Berkely. His talks are at 8 prr. 
February 19 and 21 and at 3:30pm 
Fbruary 23 in the library 
auditorium. Jerrold J. Katz of the 
Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology will speak at 8 pm on 
April 9 and 11 at 3:30 pm April13 in 
the Library Auditorium. 
All talks are open to the public 
without charge, according to Dr. 
Vaugn R. McKim, assistant 
professor of philosophy and 
director of the program. 
on popular styled 
SHOES 
$990 to $1 590 
Choose from several styles ... all up-to-the-minute shoes .. Compare to those costing much more. 
THE LATEST BAROQUE OXFORD CLOTH SHIRTS 
Button down collar (with stays) double button cuffs, choice of colors 
KNIT SUITS from $65 2 PANTS KNIT SUIT $95 
Knit is definitely it! See us for the knits you want at the right price 
PAY NEXT YEAR 
Pay one third in January, one third in February, one third in March with no serv1ce or carrying charge added. 


ON TilE CAMPUS •.. NOTRE DAME 
"I feel quite revitalized by l!eing in New York," he said. "I feel more like writing than I did before That doesn't mean Irush 1to the typewriter. Any writer who tells you he's in a hurry to get back to that desk is not a writer." 
His best friends live in or near the city; not far from his East Side sublet is a bakery with seeds in the rye; he found an affable Chinese laundryman; and there is a discount drug store. "What more do I need?" he demanded. 
"I never made any promise not to come back or to become an expatriate," he said. "I don't even like the word. 
"The rest of America Ihave always liked very much. I love New England, I love the coun­tryside, I revisited the Bucks 


County farm where I lived 40 S.J. Perelman: English life is years." rather bland to a New Yorker. 

NEWS &BOOK CENTER 
Largest Display of 
HUGE GREETING .CARDS DISPLAY OF 
SELECTION 
OF 
MAGAZINES

you save 2o~ PAPERBACKS 
0 
All hard to find mogozmet
Over 6000 Titles 
ore easy to pidc up here.

CARDS, STATIONERY, 
Come in and b-owse!

GIFT WRAP AND BOWS on Displar New York Times on sale after 12 
~~~!!!~~!~~!!!~~!~~!!!~~~~~~~l 

WANTED 

Wanted: secretary, must type and take shorthand. 6-12 hours per week. Apply OBSERVER, salary negoitable. 
Need immediatly, 2 general admission TCU tix, call Frank 1943. 
Roommate Needed: Notre Dame Apts, SApt. 4-B. 832 Notre Dame Ave. Call 234-0449 
Need 4 adiacent tix for Pitt and 3 general admission for TCU. SCali 8242. 
Need 2-3 Missouri or TCU tickets, r all Karl 1777. 
Need Ride to Western Illinois Friday, Oct. 6. Final destination 
W.I.U. Macomb. Share expenses. Call Russ 283-1249. 
FOR SALE 
Mich. State bus trip and ticket for sale. K<'vin 3207 
1969 Cortina G. T., low mileage, ..ood condition. Call Elkhart 264­
1~16. 
I nr Sale: 1972 80CC Yamaha, ··xrellent condition. $225, Call I· •rk (Eikahrtl 293-1901 after 5. 
1966 Alta Romeo GSGT, fresh ""qinc ncver raced, new KW&O r,1ctials drive to beleive, $2000. J~>lln R927. 
I nr Sale: qibson electric guitar. ( ,111 283 1620. 
For sale: Tickets to John Mayall roncert this Wednesday. Main 
Floor 18th row. Call 8253 
FOR RENT 
For Rent: 828 E. Wayne Str. n,'wly decorated 7 room house. Drive in qarage. $120.00 monthly. C.lll 233-4425. 
1\vailable: 2 motel rooms in South H<.'nd motel lor night of Oct. 13. (Pill weekend). Call John 8810. 
Furnished house close to NO <>uitable for 4 students, available Or!. 15th. Phone 272-1159 
NOTICES 
I ,l( ulty For Nixon A friendly ,,all><.'ring, 6:00 pm, October 12, 1972. University Club (lounqe). I or informillion contact Pro( V. vurkovic, Department of lv~.1themat irs. 
·---------
Morrissey Loan Fund Open. Jlorrow up to $150. 11:15-12:15 MPnday fllru Friday. LaFortune 
1\,l"<'llH'IlI 
Tvpinq: Essay term paper-thesis desertation technical or research report wr· do them professionally, <'fficiently, .1nd reasonable. [xpert SPcretarial Service. 233­9~66 or 3257. 
LOST AND FOUND 
l pq NDrinq,wllite<Jold PJL '73, libr,lry. P,1ul 287·3107. 
l nst: ,111 identification, blue case. "''<'P lllC'ID 'card Please return IIH' rcst!'' Nancy 2232 0882. 
r <'lllld Maryland n1otorcycle li<<'nsc. Call 7~71. Observer office. 

Nced ride for 3 to Grand Rapids, Michigan on Oct. 6. Call Betsy 6925. 
forming Group need musicians with Pquipment, call Jim 1520. 
N<'ed ride East (I 80 or Pa. Tpk.) o, I. 7 or 8. Sunday preferred. D<·stination Phila. Call 6865. 
N•·<'d Missouri tix: 2 student. 2 neneral admission. Tim 1678. 
N<·<'d ride to MSU Fri. Oct. 6, help on qas. Cl\1 Ken at 6772. 
N<'ed ~ qeneral admission tix to TCU qame. Mike 7883. 
Ride offered to NYC Oct. 5 & back on 0< L 8. Need only drive. 288­0161, Sllaron 5-10 pm. 
1 <IUVS need ride to Milwalkee this w•·•·kenct. Please call Larry or P,HJI ,,t 8276 or Rick at 8284 
PERSONALS 

To F .1nct S •·nterprizes: You can liqllt our fir<' ,,nytime. Pervs ltd. 
-··-·--· --------­. l,mic<.', You forgot your coat at I .lrll'y. C.11i Stan 6781 
Words Ida 2da 3da 4da 5da 1-10 .65 .95 1.15 1.35. 1.55 11-15 1.00 1.50 1.85 2.10 2.40 16-20 1.30 1.95 2.15 2.55 2.95 21-25 1.70 2.55 3.20 3.85 4.45 26-30 2.10 3.15 3.95 4.75 5.45 31-35 2.45 3.65 4.45 4.75 6.15 36-40 2.80 4.20 5.25 6.75 7.15 41-45 3.15 4.70 5.90 7.10 8.20 46-50 3.55 5.20 6.50 7.80 8.95 
... 
... 

• 
the observer Monday, October 2, 1972
8 

Awesome Irish smash Boilermakers 
by Jim Donaldson Sports Editor 

The officials seemed to be the only people in Notre Dame Stadium who could stop the Irish from scoring Saturday afternoon. Purdue's defense wasn't able to do the job as Notre Damecombinecan explosive rushing attack with Tom Clements' accurate passing to rack up 636 yards in total offense and post a 35--14 victory over the Boilermakers. 
Referee Jerry Markbreit took an almost sure three points away fromthe Irish when he failed to see a timeout signal with just seconds remaining in the first half, forcing Notre Dame to hurriedly attempt a fourth down pass play from the Purdue five which was un­successful. It didn't make any difference in the outcome,
.. however, because the Irish had 
Jim Don a I dso n 
·================================================================================================: 
The Irish Eye 
:=============================================:=====================================================:::==========· BtJsiness l:xx::>ln 
If Ara Parseghian were a businessman, instead of a football coach he might have to appear before the Better Business Bureau on charge~ of misrepresenting his product. 
Before the start of the season, he said that he and his coaching staff would be "rebuilding" the Fighting Irish football team this year. Blarney. Notre Dame's business is wrecking, not construction. · 
At least that's the way it must have seemed to Purdue's Boilermakers Saturday afternoon. Loaded with returning veterans and considered to have several first-rate prospects, Purdue took on Parseghian's youthful Irish and were destroyed 35-14. 
The Irish riddled the Purdue defense for 636 yards in total offense while limiting the Boilermakers to 14 late game points and just 39 first half yards, all of them on the ground. 
No one was more impressed with Notre Dame's performance than Purdue coach Bob DeMoss. 
"Notre Dame has great balance," DeMoss said after watching his team absorb its third loss in as many outings this fall. "They've got good ex­perience up front, good running backs, and (Tom) Clements did a great job at quarterback. Their execution is excellent and, anytime a team can r~n inside and outside an pass well as they did, they've got people in a bmd." 
"We couldn't stop them," DeMoss added with a shake of his head. The way the Irish have moved the football in their first two games it's questionable whether anyone can stop them. ' 
Last year, Notre Dame scored only 225 points, its lowest total ever since Parseghian arrived in '64. This season, the Irish once again have an o.ffensive machine, capable of scoring at any time, from anywhere on the field. 
I 
Singling out one person or even a couple of players, as the reason for this sudden offensive reversal of form is almost as difficult a task as opposing defenses face in trying to stop the Irish. 
Eleven men,notone or two, make a good team. Purdue had some great individual players, but, as a team, they couldn't do the job. Certainly, sophomore quarterback Tom Clements deserves a major 
share of the credit for the rejuvenation of the Irish attack. 
! 
Intelligent and remarkably cool for a guy playing only his second varsity game, Clements was dazzling Saturday afternoon. His faking and ball handling were so good that it seemed as it he might walk up to 
Purdue's 6'7", 280-pound defensive tacle, Dave Butz, and pull the football 
I 
from behind his ear. With his sleight of hand abilities, he could trade in his football gear for a black suit and wand and be a success. 
t 
His shifty, exciting, running style had more than one fan at Saturday's
I 
game comparing him favorably with N.D.'s latest quarterback idol Joe Theismann. ' 
Some people had questioned his passing abilities, but Clements made believers of the skeptics with a 17 of 24 performance, good for 287 yards and two touchdowns, against the Boilermakers. 
His ability to pick up secondary receivers is uncanny, especially in view of his lack of experience. His 62-yard touchdown toss to Willie Townsend was a play on which the primary receivers were covered, yet Clements found the open man. 
"I was looking at three receivers on the play." Clements said later. "The first two <tight end Mike Creaney and fullback John Cieszkowski) were covered, and if Willie had been, I would have run. It was a good play-we all enjoyed it." 
Watching Clements operate is enjoyable for everyone. 
Clements wouldn't have been able to pass as well as he did, however, without adequate protection from his offensive line. He got that, and more. As he was quick to point out, "I had all day to throw." 
The Irish front line, center Dave Drew, guards Frank Pomarico and Gerry DiNardo, tackles John Dampeer and Dave Casper and tight end Mike Creaney, has done an outstanding job this fall. 
Very quick off the line of scrimmage, they have consistently been opl.'ning holes in opposing defenses. 
And 'the people that have been running through those holes! Another sophomore, Eric Penick, has given the Irish the breakaway threat they've lacked in recent years. Although he sat out more than a quarter against Purdue with a minor knee injury, he still rushed for 133 yards and a touchdown. In the first game of the season against Northwestern, Darryll Dewan ran for over 100 yards. Gary Diminick ripped off a 42 yard run against the Boilermakers. Andy Huff and John Cieszkowski give the Irish two of the one of the nation's best fullback tandems and it takes a heck of a tackler to bring down either of these two by himself. 
Most people felt that the Irish would improve offensively this fall, 
... although therr performance has exceeded even coach Parseghian's ex­pectations, but no one thought that Notre Dame's defense with only three starters back from the 1971 team, would be as good as it's been. 
But they were unscored upon during the first seven quarters of the season and the two t~uchdowns they.gave up in the fourth quarter against Purdue ~ere meamngless. The Insh "D" was especially tough in the ~arly g?mg Sa~~rday when fumbles gave Purdue possession the football m scormg posttJOn. The Boilermakers went nowhere. 
Clearl~, Parseghian has stopped rebuilding and
.. moved into other 
areas. Rrght now, the wrecking business is great. 
already tallied three first half touchdowns while holding Purdue scoreless and went on to score twice more inthe third quarter· before the Boilermakers made things more respectableby driving for a pair of late game touchdowns. 
Led by Clements, who completed 17 of 24 pass attempts for 287 yards and two touchdowns, and speed.,­halfback Eric Penick, who rushed for 133 yards and a touchdown in 12 carries, the Irish were in control all the way in posting their third straight win over arch-rival and frequent nemesis, Purdue. 
Notre Dame's domination of play was evident in the first half statistics, which showed the Irish with 17 first downs to Purdue's three, 153 yards rushing to the Boilers' 39 and 250 passing yards to none for Purdue. The Irish defensive unit, playing more like seasoned veterans than the youth­ful bunch they are, again turned in a fine performance and it was their play that enabled the Irish Notre Dame to take the lead early in the game. Penick fumbled the ball away on the first play after the· opening kickoff at the Notre Dame 33 yard line and the Purdue's middle guard, Greg Bingham, recovered. The Boilermakers picked up a quick first down but, on second down at the Irish 17, Bill Pedhoretzky was hit hard by fresh­man tackle Steve Niehaus and fumbled. Notre Dame's Jim O'Malley, who seems . to be playing with a football magnet under his uniform this fall, fell on the ball to kill the threat. 
Hastily redeeming himself Penick got the Irish out of troubl~ by bursting for 20 yards around left end on Notre Dame's second play from scrimmage and, after Dewan picked up four yards, Andy Huff hulled his way up the middle for 13 more yards to the N.D. 47. But there the drive stalled and the Irish were forced to punt. They didn't lose the football, though, as, while Brian Doherty's kick was sailing downfield, Purdue was called for clipping and the 15 yard penalty gave the Irish a first down at the Boilermakers' 36 yard line. Granted a reprieve, the Irish wasted little time in taking advantage of the opportunity. Four plays later, in a third and 13 situation at the 39, Clements rolled to his right and fired a perfect pass to Mike Creaney at the 20 and the big tight end rambled into the end zone untouched for the score. Bob Thomas kicked the first of five conversions with 10:12 left in the quarter. Notre Dame's defense stepped back into the spot light again a little later, after a fumble by Clements turned the ball over to Purdue at the Irish 43. Boiler­maker quarterback Gary Danielson was dropped twice attempting to pass in the ensuing series of downs and Purdue punted to Tim Rudnick, whose 15 yard return gave the offense possession at the N.D. 30. After an illegal shift penalty pushed the ball back five yards, Clements and Penick moved the Irish to a touchdown in just six plays. 
A four yard Clements to Willie Townsend pass and a 14 yard run by Penick gave the Notre Dame a first down and Clements followed that up by finding Creaney open behind the Purdue zone for a 30 yard completion that moved the ball to the Boiler 27. 

thereafter and the game ended with the Irish on the Purdue two
Individual Statistics 
yard line. 

Not~ Dame Ne~t weekend, the Irish, now 2­
RVSHING: E~r P~nick. 12 for 133 yards; Andy Huff. 13 for 62; Gary Dimmick. 6 for 53. Tom C.,·ments. 7 for 2tl; John CJeszkowskr. 8 for 25; AI Samuel, 3 lor 0: Will meet another long-time 
1rro: Darrvll Dewan. 6 for 21. Total 60 for 349. nval and Big Ten foe, MichiganPASSING: T?m Clements. 17 out of 24, I interr~pted, 287 yards, 2touchdowns. 
3 114; State, in a nationally televised
RECEIVING. Wilhe Townsend 7 lor 117; Mrke C~aney, ror John Cleszkowski. 4 for 40; Andv Huff. I lor 16. contest in East Lansing.Pl'NTI!';G: llnan Doherty, 2 for 28.0 avt>rag~. RE_TURNS: Punts-Tim Rudnick, 3 for 13; Kickoffs-Gary Diminick, 2o lor 
Purdue .. . . . 0 0 0 14-14
:rl, Willie Townsend, I lor 2 Interceptions. Jim Musuraca. 1 lor 6. 
Purdue Notre Dame 14 7 14 0-35 RUSHING: Otis Ar_mstrong, II for 45; Skip Peterson. 10 for 40; Jack Spellman, 6 
ND--(:reaney 39 pass from
for 46 .. Bob Hemck. J for 9; Bob Bobrowskr. 3 for 20; Bill Pedhoretzky, 7 lor 19· Roy K1dd. I for 4; Gary Danielson. 13 lor minus 15. • Clements (Thomas kJck) . PASSI"'G · Gary Danielson. 3 out ol 14, 1 intercepted, 40 yards. Bob Bobrowski ND-Jlenick 14 run (Thomas
! out of 3 for 21 yards. · 
kick)

RECEI~ING · Rick Sayer. 2 for 23 yards; Otis Armstrong. 1 lor II: Dan 
Roman. I 10r 17; Ron Hardv, 1 for 10. ND-Townsend 62 pass from . RETUR-;s: K1ckofls .!.."Otis Armstrong, 2 lor 52 InleiTeptJOns -Arnold 
( arter. I for 16. Clements (Thomas kick) PU\'TING: Chuck Piebes. 9 lor 35.9. ND-Cieszkowskl 1 run (Thomas kick) ND-IIuff l run (Thomas kJck) Pur--Spellman 24 run (Sa­yers pass from Bobrowski) Pur-Peterson 1 run (pass failed) 
TEAM ST ATISTICI 

N.D. Purdue 
FIRST DOWNS .... . 29 17 Rushmg ........ . 17 11 Passing II 5 Pen;;ltiPs. ......... . I I 
YARDS RUSHING .. 363 209 Lost Rushing . 14 41 Net Rushing . 349 168 TIMES CARRIED .. 55 56 PASSES ........... . 24 17 Completed ...... . I7 5 Had Intercepted .. I I YARDS PASSING . 2!!7 61 TOTAL PLAYS .... . 79 73 lntercrptmns .. . I I Yards rrturned I6 16 PUNTS .......·.. 2 g PunUng average .. 28 JH Punts rPtumrd ... . 3 0 Yards r~urned .. . 13 0 
Kickoffs re· lul'lled/yards ....... . 3-30 2·52
Eric .Pen.ic~ ran for 1:13 yards a .d a touchdPwn against the Boilermakers, 
f~NAt.TIES/Yards 6-68 3-35
despite sittmg out the second quarter with a knee injury. FilM RLES/Lost 3-%
4-3 

::'~ 
\~'illil' Townsl'nd hauls in pass from To~ Clements (2 ln ba:~;;~u~d:).( ll'ml'nts completed 17 passes Saturday, seven of them to Townsend. 
Andy Huff picked up a couple of Dame marched 78 yards in just 
yards before Clements again took seven plays for its fourth touch­
to the_ air, hitting Townsend over down. Gary Diminick's 42 yard 
the mrddle at the 14. Penick then run was the big play in the drive, 
swept left end behind a wall of which culminated in John 
~lockers and raced over the goal C'ieszkowsk's one-yard scoring 
lme unhindered with 4:55 plunge. 
remaining. The Irish went !14 yards the next 
Notre Dame increased its lead to time they had the football, aided 
21-Qon the first play of the second largely by runs of 16 and 34 yards 
qu~rter. Taking possession on by Penick and a 12 yard Clements 
their own 38, the Irish needed just to Cieszkowski pass that put the 
one play to score--and it was a ball on the one-yard line. Two 
beauty. plays later, Huff smashed over the 
Clements made the play work goal line. fi~st slowing the Purdue pass rush That put the game out of reach of w1th a great play-action fake to Purdue although the Boilers H_uff, then finding Townsend, not refused to quite quit and managed hrs primary receiver, alone in the to pick up a pair of touchdowns in Boilers' secondary. Townsend the fourth quarter. caught Clements' pass in stride at Jack Peterson put Purdue on the the 20 and sprinted into the end scoreboard with a gutsy 24 yard zone. Thomas' extra point came runk breaking three tackles on his just 53 seconds into the quarter. way to the end zone. Bob 
The Irish almost added to their Bobrowski, who had replaced lead late in the first half, moving Danielson at quarterback, made from their own 32 to the Purdue the score 35--8 with a two-point five before the time out mixup conversion pass to split end Rick occurred. Sayers. 
Perhaps deciding that it would Bobrowski took the Boiler-be be~t to do their scoring early, makers in to score the next time the Irtsh drove for touchdowns the they had the ball, Skip Peterson !'irst two times they had possession putting the finishing touches on a m the second half. 51-yard march by powering over 
After stopping Purdue following fr~m the one, but another two­the second half kickoff, Notre pomt conversion try failed. Notre Dame controlled the ball 






