
Cloudy with a chance of showers. High 45. Rain turning to snow tonight. 
Vol. VI. No. 80 

Budget report 

SMC shows large surplus for preceding fiscal year 
by A. T. Darin 
Bucking a national trend toward deficit budgets for universities and colleges, St. Mary's College has announced a surplus of $694,000 for the fiscal year ending Aug. 31, 1971. 
The surplus, a surprising contrast from the previous year's $2,000 gain, was accomplished ''without eliminating any expenditures from academic instructional, academic ad­ministrative or student service areas," ex­plained .Jason D. Lindower, director of financial managt>ment. 
"Jo~veryone at St. Mary's has worked hard and sacrificed. While we didn't need to eliminate any offices. plant management and maid service were hardest hit areas saving us $100,000," the certified public accountant noted. 
For the same period, Rev. Jerome J. Wilson, Notre Dame business affairs vice-president, rt>portt>d a $72,000 surplus. This year he an­tidpates a $750,000 deficit. 
surprising contrast 
<lpt>rating margin included gifts and con­tributions from the Sisters of the Holy Cross totaling $159,000, in addition to $146,000 of contributed services from on-campus religious. This donation accounts for $305,000 of the extra funds. 
llowever. in the financial statement which Lindower compiled to accompany the release, $3 million remains unexplained. Revenues listed in the financial operations (student tuition and fees. endowment income, and unrestricted gifts) do not equal total revenues. Operating expenses comprising educational expense, plant operation-depreciation and executive­admimstrative costs, also do not balance with the sum expenditure. 
Late I11st night Lindower clarified the financial statement by confessing that it was only a condensation of the fiscal year's transactions. lie admitted the unaccounted $3 million was itemized in the original budget as auxiliary enterprises. according to the financial manager, including the bookstore, and room and board. 


unification caused surplus 
One million dollars should be listed as an auxiliary enterprises expenditure, namely the dining hall. bookstore, and dormitory staff ex­
penses. With these additions, Lindower guaranteed the statements balanced. 
Lindower cites increased revenues and low expenditures as chief reasons for the surplus. According to the account, total revenue in­creased from $4,922,861 to $5,870,326. Operating expenses· increased only minimally from $4.708,879 to $4,976,039, a $200,000 raise. 
University spokesmen believe unification caused the surplus. Even though the budget was planned before the intensification of the co­£'xchange program, these sources cite Provost Hev. James T. Burtchaell's claim: Notre Dame gives St. Mary's a 20 percent savings on their teaching load as one cause for the extra money. 
St. Mary's can admit more students and not hire a proportional number of faculty, sources said. 
While the faculty gained one member in the fiscal year 1970-71, it netted a loss of seven in­structors this year. Accompanied by graduated tuition increases totaling $250, a student enrollment has steadily increased from 1279 <'69l to 1413 <'70l to 1465 <'71). 
Since St. Mary's added more students, but no 
teachers, this represents a clear gain, ad­

ministrative sources alleged. In addition, St. Mary's used the computer facilities at Notre Dame gratis last y~ar for programming student schedules, grade reports, and reportedly, payrolls. They also utilize other university services such as the Memorial Library for no extra fees, university ad­ministrators substantiated. 

entries missing 
"There are so many entries missing," com­plained Harold Isbell, English instructor. "No auxiliary enterprises <building rentals, bookstore profits l are listed in the revenue. There is also no breakdown of educational ex­penses. Instead under the heading Lindower cryptically lumped the academic dean's office, library. student personnel, and faculty salaries." 
SMC faculty requested the data last fall. Comparing the audit with last year's more­detailed financial statement, faculty members expressed disappointment. 
While Lindower could not speculate on this year's surplus becaue of the $150,000 payment to Notre Dame for St. Mary's enrollment in co-ex dasses. he did forecast a surplus. Despite press reports, the payment supposedly billed and paid by St. Mary's College in mid-January, has not yet been received, SMC administrators confided. 
Decreases in the amount of supplies ordered by the science departments since majors have elected many lab courses at Notre Dame, the net decreases in faculty, cutdowns in security and housekeeping staffs, and gratis clerical fees which Notre Dame now performs may all con­tribute to this year's surplus, SMC faculty representatives analyzed. 
"Our enrollment is up at our maximum and because of the merger , some of our operating expenses are unrealistic," commented Dr. Paul Messbarger, faculty assembly chairman. 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE HIGHLIGHTS FOR THE 1970-71 YEAR COMPARED TO 1969-70 
Financial Ooera!ions l.lli.:.N JmW. 
Total Revenue: $4,922,861 $5,870,326 Student Tuition & Fees: 2,786,322 3,574,660 Endowment Income: 33,866 34,190 Unrestricted Gifts: 154,594 159,045 
Total Operating Ex­penses: 4,708,879 4,976,039 Educational Expenses: 1,800,760 2,082,675 Plant Operation and Depreciation: 1,279,970 1,270,442 Executive and Ad­ministrative: 361,089 349,187 Scholarships and Remissions SMC Budget: 211,957 199,879 
Operating Margin: 2,025 694,408 
Total Student Aid all sources: 554,246 680,806 
Financial Condition 

Endowment -estimated market: 782,000 958,000 -book value: 857,880 910,774 
Investment in Properties Net of Depreciation: $12,471,207 $12,247,182 


Luken declares SBP candidacy 
by T.C. Treanor Obst>rvt>r Assistant Editor 

Pangborn Hall Senator Chuck Luken joined the ranks of declared Student Body Presidential Candidates last night, promising "wholesale reconstruction" of student government and challenging his opponents to "free and open debate." 
SLC Vice -Chairman Floyd Kezele and Student Government Ombudsman Paul Dziedzic, both of whom have already declared themselves can­didates for the SBP post, were unavailable for comment on Luken's invitation to debate. 
Luken and his running -mate, Sorin Hall 
President Walter Spak, made their announcement to a crowd of about twenty people in the Pangborn Chapel. 
Luken, who
•._,.i ·-J~:IIIP•,.Illtl!!liii--.,.,­

comes from
·J!(·,;;:. -. . ..,, 

Cincinatti, Ohio, charged the administration of SBP John Barkett with "viewing the mechanisms of student govern­ment the way corporation leaders view the mechanisms of the corporation." 
The Pangborn Senator said that Barkett had "created some coherent struc­tures," bu t contended that some of those structures were 
He also said that he would use both "diplomacy and pressure" to deal with the University. "You're not going to do it with just diplomacy. That's one of the things that went wrong with the Barkett ad­ministration." 
Pledging "a fresh approach," Luken said that "the bureauocracy has run Student Government and forgotten the purpose of Student Government ­to help six thousand guys here." 
Luken also had some harsh words for the student Senate. "The Senate has been made a mockery of for the last time," he said. "It seems that its biggest concern is with reproducing itself." 
Luken suggested relacing the Senate with "a system of eleven representatives and a SBP and SBVP." He said that the Senate had become "unwieldy and ineffective" and that the new body would be "a more cohesive structure that could participate more fully in student government." 

Senate 'unwieldy' 

The Pangborn Senator also contended that the llall Life Commission and "several cabinet posts" should be abolished. He said that "The Hall Life Commission, seems to be the SBP and SBVP's touch with hall life." Luken suggested replacing the Commission with the Hall President's Council and said that "We believe the eleven man-woman panel should work directly with the HPC with no middle man." 
"Several cabinet posts should come under similar scrutiny," he said. Luken will not be running in conjunction with any St. Mary's candidate on a merged ticket, but called his candidacy "committed to the merller." 
"We fail to see any advantage in it (running on a merged ticketl," Luken said. "We must be willing to work with the winner of the St. Mary's election whether it is our coalition partner or not. We believe this is the most open-minded approach." 
The Pangborn Junior also called for student membership on the Board of Trustees, contending that "when the Trustees meet to consider how many girls to bring on campus, the merger, new alcohol legislation, etc ... , we believe students should be in the discussion and have the right to represent 
(continued on page 2) 

Brother Ryan rules 


Refrigerator fine will stay 
by Michael Baum 
"The reason for the fine (on refrigerators) is that they are causing an undue expense to the University, an expense that should be borne by the persons that are causing the expense," according to Brother Kieran Ryan, Asst. V.P. of Business Affairs, yesterday. 
Commenting on two letters sent 
to the Observer by Ray DeCarlo 
of Alpha Phi Omega, Brother 
Kieran said that the widespread 
use of refrigerators by students 
resulted in several serious 
problems, including fire hazard, 
insurance, sanitation, infestation 
and the overloading of circuits. 
He noted that the overloading 
was "the real economic problem 
and the reason of the fine." 
Brother Kieran estimated the 
expenses incurred by appliances, 
including power consumption and 
necessary rewiring of halls, $30­
40,000. "The fine is a fine, it is not 
a fee," he remarked, saying that 
the University did not want to 
seem to "give approval" of the 
use of such units. 
Citing reports of dormitory 

Luken announces 
his intentions 
(continued from page 1) 
student interest with a vote or 
votes." 
Luken also expressed hostility 
toward the current grading 
system. criticizing chiefly the A­
and B-grades the University has 
handed out the past three 
semesters. "Students work 
harder and get lower grades," he 
said. "Notre Dame students are 
less competitive in graduate 
schools because of these grades." 
The SBP candidate pledged to 
run a "poll of student attitudes." 
at the beginning of the campaign 
in order to determine precisely 
what position he would take. 
Luken also came out in favor of 
co-ed dorms. renovating the 
student center. and "programs 
that make Notre Dame a more 
tolerable place for minorities:' 
According to Luken, the 
programs should be coupled with 
"large-scale recruitment." 
He suggested that "minority students already at ND" would be "the best administrators of these programs." one of which would be a "several-week-long" Freshman Orientation for minorities. 
Spak, a Junior from Lower Burrell. Pennsylvania, reiterated Luken's pledge to avoid Student <~overnment "bureaucracy" in office. "We will use bureaucracy, step through bureaucracy, and go beyond bureaucracy," the Sorin president said. 
"A lot of people will think up a 
lot of good ideas, but I don't think 
they actually want to implement 
them." 
Spak was not optimistic about 
chances for endorsements by 
current student government 
officials. "We don't need support 
from the biggies," Spak said. 
"We need it from the student 
body." 
Spak said that the campaign 
would be concerned with im­
proving the food, reducing 
bookstore prices, and with 
elasses. 
In issuing his call for a debate, 
Luken said he particularly 
wanted to meet SLC Towers 
representative Floyd Kezele, 
with whom he had "many points 
of disagreement." 
i\s of now. Luken and Spak are 
without a campaign manager. 

fires from insurance reports, and the explosion of a 100 amp circuit in Dillon Hall last fall as examples of the hazards of curcuit overload, Brother Kieran claimed that the main problem was not total power consumed, but "peak" loads on the line. 
"We've put ampmeters on the halls, and we know what the situation is. Between 10:30 and 12 o'clock there are very dangerous peaks. This is the time when all the lights are on, and all the various appliances ... the refrigerators are being opened and closed, and they're starting to cycle. It is not a problem of current consumption, it's the problem at night when these things are peaking," he stated. 
Brother Kieran noted that many halls on campus when originally made were not designed to handle the present power loads. In addition, he said, "It isn't just a question of the circuits within the halls, it's also a question of we're nearing the tops of our primary circuits into the halls and if we have to go to that, that's a very expensive shot." 
Brother Kieran also com­mented on his failure to reply to DeCarlo's original letter. "The reason I didn't reply to his letter is that I read his letter in the Observer before I got my copy of the letter. I didn't feel that under those circumstances that a reply was warrjlnted, since it was already made public." 
Replying to this, DeCarlo asserted, "I gave his secretary the letter on Wednesday, January 26." The letter was printed in the Obst>rver of Friday, the 28th. 
Saying that DeCarlo "violated trust " in releasing the substance of their conversations, Brother Kieran refused to see DeCarlo, .saying, "I will not discuss it further with him. I'll discuss it with John Barkett or any of the student hall presidents." 
The issue of the fines, and restriction of appliances such as large refrigerators and air conditioners, is being discussed at present by Fr. Thomas Chambers, C.S.C., director of Student Housing, and the Hall President's Council ad hoc housing committee. Committee members are Carmen Maciariello, Dave Fromm, Buz Imhoff, Bob Ryan, Denis O'Leary and Joe Markosek. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester ex­cept vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester from The Observer, Box 
Q,  Notre  Dame,  Indiana  46556,  
second class postage paid.  Notre  
Dame  Ind. 46556.  


Notre Dame -St. Mary's Theatre presents 


Judas Christ 
A NEW PLAY BY MICHAEL REHAK Feb. 18, 19, 25, 25, 26 8:30 pm Washington Hall Tickets $2, $1.50 for ND-SMC Staff, Faculty, Students Reservatio t 283-4 ·nd 284-7054 

Clothes and things 

Men's Boutique 


"On the Mall" -McKinley Town & Country Shopping Center -Mishawaka, Indiana Phone 259­7:135 




Senior Bar 
Friday: Gay 90's Night Introducing John Voll on banjo Prizes for best Gay 90's costume 
Reminder lOc Beer Sat. 7-9:00 

CALIFORNIA THIS EASTER? 
Spon~or0cl f\y C<~li!ornia Club of Notre D<~me 
MARCH 22 TO APRIL 4, 1972 

South Bend to Los Angeles and return or South Bend to San Francisco & return Total Cost: $130 R-T 
Sign ups and more information this Saturday afternoon (Feb. 19th) from 
1:00 to 3:00 pm in Room 1-D of the LaFortune Student Center 
Bi l -Ton -8 
YOU GET BE'I~·rER L AT UNION 


with CONTACT LENSES 
No hassle. Slip into the action with better vision without bother. Contact lenses help you see better, 
keep you looking great. Feel free to join the action 
with contact lenses ... You get better looking at 
Union. 
~ Phone 
Phone 259-1968 ~ 
875-5183 2201 N. Division, 4107 S. Main St. Mishawaka 
CAC's Fund Raising Film Series presents 




Catch 22 
Fri. & Mon. Feb. 18 & 21 8 & 1 0 pm Engineering Auditorium 
Fund Raising
Admission $1.00 
}.,ilm Patrons Free 

W,ashington--A bill requiring the executive brach to submit all in­. terna'tional agreements to Congress was unanimously approved by the 
Senate. The Legislation, which is aimed at restricting secrecy, was opposed by the State Department. Under the bill, the agreements would be sent to Congress only for information purposes. 
world on campus today 
Washington--The census bureau reported a sharp drop in birth 7: 30--film, like it is, angela davis, 411 administration expectations by young married women between 1967 and 1971. Applied building. to all women aged 18 to 24, it could well mean a fertility rate of 2.2 8: oo.. Jecture,richard wasserstrom, the laws of war, library children per couple--close to a population growth rate of zero. The auditorium.


briefs 
bureau said the change in expectations was the largest in its records. 9:00--lecture, ralph nader, stepan center. 
1ndianatlolis--Sources close to Indiana Governor Edgar Whitcomb at notre dame -st. mary's said Wednesday that the governor is "working on the bill" which would lower to 18 the state's age of majority -including drinking age-­
(('I 1!112 New York Times 
and that a decision will be forthcoming by Thursday night. If the bill is 
neither signed nor vetoed by that time, it automatically becomes law. 
The bill was passed by the Indiana Legislature last week. 

1Spt-cial StudPnl Hates Every Dayl 
same call dialed direct costs less than 90 cents. Next time, dial direct and save. 
@ Indiana Ben 

THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
F.ditor-in-Chief, Glen s~ Corso 
Assistant Editor Assistant Editor 
All successful newspapers are
T.C. Treanor John Abowd 
ceaselessly querulous and 
bellicose. They never defend Business Manager anyone or anything if they can help Advertising Manager Jim Jendryk it; if the job is forced upon them, Bill Bauerle 
they tackle it by denouncing someone or something else. 
H.L. Mencken 
Business: 283-7471 News: 283-1715 


Fine I em 
It looks like the old salvation army clunker is going to be a thing of the past next year, with the expected administrative fiat banning all large refrigerators 
The big boxes soak up too much electricity, too much for most halls' wiring to handle and too much for the power plant to produce at times. The best solution would be to re-wire the halls, but it's an expensive proposition. Faced with a 700 thousand dollar deficit the university is hard pressed to scare up funds for such large capital improvements. 
In order to discourage excessive use of electricity the university is planning to levy a general range of fines on various appliances. Students apparently, will have a hand in the decision making, something which is a very welcome addition. 
The Hall President's will be asked for ideas on the problem and their suggestions will be taken seriously into con­sideration when the final decision is made. 
That students should be fined for having televisions, hot plates and pop corn poppers in their room is, on the surface, rather petty. But the near fire which went off in Dillon last semester, caused by an electrical malfunction is not petty. It is not to difficult to imagine any of the older halls here on campus engulfed by a conflagaration sparked by some electrical aberration, 
So there is no solution to the problem except to discourage student use of gadgets that consume a lot of electricity. The way to discourage, unfortunately, is to fine them, perhaps to fine them stiffly. But at the same time those fines can be used to effect a far more equitable and realistic solution to the affair. 
Iffines are raised and if fines are levied on a wide range of machines, then perhaps all these monies could be channeled into a special fund used exclusively to re-wire the halls, one by one. This solution won't set any speed records, but in lieu of the university's financial situation and the real danger we face from have overloaded lines in tinderbox dormitories, it seems the most realistic. 

, M.nl that you gl¥e Kholarshlps to ml-'ty athletn "'-." 
Nite Editor: Dan Barrett, Beth Hall Layout: Ken Kampman, Pete Freis, Kathy Schwille Headlines; John Kloos, Kathy, Pete, Don Biancamano Day Editor: Jack Kelly News Editor: Jerry Lutkus Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson Nite Controller: Joe Wilkowski 
Joseph Austin 

No Tree Damn 
This article is perhaps best addressed to students here at the l lniversity of Notre Dame who are pursuing a preprofessional program of some sort and to the raving iconoclasts who voice bitter but meaningless invective against N.D.'s Department of Preprofessional Studies, but it might also prove of interest to the general public. 
There's no avoiding the manic propaganda of the department's outside detractors. who look on the department as more of a club than a department. the preprofessional program as unworthy of a bac­ealaureate. and the premedical student as a ruthless cutthroat. The lies of these culprits who are bent on destroying free enterprise don't Pven merit a reply. 
One £'ven hears occasiOnal grumblings from a sizeable portion of 
the preprofessional students themselves, especially sophomores, who 
f£'el estranged in large classes. overworked by excessive study, 
pressured by stiff competition, and cheated by the poor quality of 
instruction on the part of "institutionalized" professors. 
Before the whiners condemn N.D.'s preprofessional department, 
they might well compare it with that of another school. Having read 
the following letter from my lifelong friend Victor PreMedici, a preprofessional sophomore at the University of Not Tree Damn in South Crook. Hossiana, I can only conclude that if Not Tree Damn's preprofessional department is typical. then Notre Dame's students have no eause for complaint. 
l' of Not Tree Damn 
South Crook. lloosiana 
December :11. 1971 
Dear .Joe. 

<;tad to hear you're enjoying such success at Notre Dame; sorry I 
ean't say the same for myself here at Not Tree Damn. During the 
semester break I'm soing some very serious thinking about whether or 
not to drop out of NTD's Department of Preprofessional Studies. The 
staggering attrition rate and the fiendish competition are the 
dC'partment's main liabilities. As for the attrition, there are 60,000 
freshmen in premed, 30,000 sophomores, 9,900 juniors, and 100 seniors, 
so of whom have applied to medical school. <Twenty-two other 
students are evenly distributed among 47 other departments.) 
Of the 50 applicants. only 49 will have to be accepted if ND PrePro is 
to keep up its 98 per cent acceptance rate. The 99,950 casualties of 
Pach class are hurriedly forgotten by the department, but such is 
survival of the fittest. Of the 30,000 preprofessional sophomores, 20,000 
are human students and 10,000 are the notorious premed machines. 
The premed machines can devote all of their time to attending classes, 
studying, and periodic oilings. How in the world are the human 
students who have to waste so much time eating and sleeping sup­
posed to compete with them? In spite of all the rivalrous warfare, 
there were only :l7 dead and 115 wounded during the past semester 
among sophmores. 

ThiC' large classes are getting to be a real pain. Every morning 
('hartered busses transport the 30,000 of us downtown to the South 
('rook Armory, where Organic Chemistry is held at 8:00 A.M. and 
(;pneral Biology at· !1:05 A.M., with a fifteen minute intermission 
separating fhe "two. The so-called insturctor of Organic Chemistry is 
Dr. J.P. C'erf. a former performer who couldn't make it on Broadway 
or with Ringling Brothers and turned to chemistry instead. His motto: 
"W£'11. I don't care... " 

Dr. Cl'rf operates with a really unusual classroom format. The first 
thirty-five seconds of the period are devoted to passing out his 
mimeographed lectures; the remaining time he tries to captivate his 
('aptive audience with his old soft-shoe routine. tao dance. magic rope 
trick. or his one-handed juggling act. Of ('Ourse there are serious 
students who would rather stage a protesting walkout which inevitably 
sends a stream of tears down either side of the crushed doctor's 
('heeks. If you'll pardon the pun, the good doctor has the sophistication 
of a serf. but his unbridled audacity and arrogance could belong only 
to a fr£'eman. 

I.ast year the Dean of the Department of Preprofessional Studies died unexpectedly. Soon a:terward his secretary, Jade Garter, was officially appointed Chairman, ()pan. Den Mother, Barber, and Brownie Baker of the department. <She also continues as her own s£'cretary. l As a result, the senior applicants to medical school have been taking her home for spaghetti dinners and even out for steak. <;oct only knows what else. 
The department office has been converted into an exotic pagan f£'mple, and Mrs. Garter wa's eonsecrated the High Priestess. Her office is located in the vestibule of the sacred tabernacle. Every morning at sunrise Mrs. Garter leads the 100,000 premeds in a grand, processional chorus into the consecrated sanctuary. Inside, the vaults are as majestic as the heavenly rainbows. The steps before the altar are of burnished bronze; they shine as brightly as the rising sun. The altar is of snow-white marble embedded with gleaming crystals and glimmering sapphires. Up beyond the altar, made illustrious by a host of fiery torches, is the Holiest of Holies, the All Glorious, the All Worshipful. the Most High the GOLDEN ASS. We the throng of 100,000 
prostrate ourselves before the Golden Ass kowtow and offer our sacrificial gifts. ' ' However, like all other false gods, the Golden Ass is an utterly worthless. hollow hunk of junk; it simply takes up space, collects dust, and exudes sacred incense imported from Marlboro Country. The idol's only response to our petitions is, "Drop out of the department." We take turns washing the idol's feet; the la:st day of the semester I did the honors. I didn't mind that, but I have my pride. I don't know if I can 
stomach kissing its haunches when my time comes next semester. What was once a one-horse operation has become a one-ass depart­m£'nt. 
Kl'ep smiling. 

\".PM. I think Victor PreMedici's letter speaks for itself. Still think you have it had. ND premeds? 


-----~--­
----~-------­

The People sound off 
on Badin and Walsh, gay lib, the lottery, the world, the paper 
Badin and Walsh 
Editor: 
A nebulous letter informed the residents of Walsh and Badin that their halls will be the first homes for the women of Notre Dame. We've been told that since we wanted the women, we should be prepared to make the sacrifices necessary to house them on campus, and it would appear that any protest on our part will do little to change this decision. Therefore we have some recommendations of our own, but. first, there is a point to be made. Despite the rhetoric £>veryone spouts about this place, it is NOT the "Notre Dame spirit", that keeps the students returning every semester. What does keep us coming back and what does make life at all bearable around here is not our undying love for the football games, Mardi Gras, etc., but those friends with whom we live and share the greater part of our college experience. The Notre Dame !'spirit dl.' corps, if indeed it does exist. originates on the grass-roots level, with our drinking and smoking buddies, not in some myopic euphoria induced by shafts of light glinting from the Golden Dome. 
Our recommendation, then, is that the burden of accomodating the women students be shared by all students, not just us. Other halls should lower their number of new freshmen admitted and allow the residents of Walsh and Badin to move into other halls on a section or partial section basis, rather than on an individual basis. This section "tran3plant" plan would allow us to keep our hl'st friends with us and not reduce us to little more than blushing freshmen entering hall life for the first time. (In fact, we will not even be on a par with freshmen, who are allowed to indicate their preference for a particular hall. A lottery system robs us of even that.> 
There might be one obJection raised. Some might claim that a section which transfers to another hall would become an £>xclusive clique. Untrue; it is much easier to make friends in a suppprtive environment of old frier s than to attempt making friends with everyone around staring at the "new kid" and postulating ulterior motives. 
This will raise a problem in other halls concerning room picks, but the residents of Walsh and Badin did not alone request that women be housed on cam­pus: the entire student body did. Therefore. the rest of the students should be more than willing to accept a fraction of the inconvenience that we are asked to accept without question. Students in other halls could easily pick room together and simply leave a block of rooms, say, space enough for 25 persons, vacant for the displaced residents of Walsh and Badin. We are prepared to take somewhat inferior quality; we simply ask for a quantity of adjacent rooms. The number of sections wanting to do this will probably be minimal, because a number of students will move off campus, others will transfer to other schools, and many sections are not as cohesive as we think ours to be, so that only a small number of sections are likely to take advantage of this perogative. 
Finally, we want to re­emphasize that our friends make this place what it is, not the v£>neers of a "school spirit" long on the wane. Our rector told us that "there is no manhood without sacrifice ..." We agree insofar as we sholdn 't be the sole recipients of "manhood," especially one forced on us. Many students have already daimed that they empathize with our plight: we request proof of that empathy through the privilege of moving into other halls on a section basis. 
Section 4-South 
WALSH HALL 
One Who Cares... 
Editor: 
We are the roommates of One Who Cares <Letters to the Editor, I<'eb. I l. We are not really sur­prised at the turn of events, for it is something we have known in a sense for a long time. More than anything else. we are relieved that we no longer have to rationalize all that we notice. There are no secrets anymore. 
Thanks in large measure to the South Bend Gay Alliance, we have a roommate who is happier and more well-adjusted than we have seen him in two years. 
What we want to say is that we don't sleep in fear, wondering when and whom he will strike. We don't berate or castigate him. because by his own admission he is happy. We see that and we can only be glad. 
The three of us have lived with him for a combined total of over eight years. We liked him when we met him: we liked him when we decided to live with him. The only thing that has changed recently is that he is much happier and easier to live with. How can we complain? 
The most forthright and con­vincing statement on the subject we've heard was one that came out in an early morning interview a weekend ago. <You who said it-­you know who you are and we thank you.) It was said that life as it is is too full of sadness to get hung up and uptight about things people do to make· themselves and each other happy, providing, of course, that no one gets hurt. 
As our roommate said in his letter, it isn't important whom you love, but that you love. We love him and he loves us. How can this make a difference to true friends? 
In the spirit of true Friendship, Three who understand 
...again 
Notre Dame Men and Women. and most of all the three persons who responded to my letter, 
Two weeks have passed since I sat lonely on a Saturday night contemplating the loneliness of Notre Dame. Much has happened since then and I would like to take a few moments to share it with you. 
The day after I wrote the Ob­sl'n·l'r I contacted the South Bend Gay Alliance and Notre Dame Gay Liberation Movement (272­11715!. I talked for 30 minutes with a beautiful woman named Sam, and she convinced me to come to the meeting that Sunday and discover the local gay com­munity. 
I went, and I am a much happier person for so doing. I found something so refreshingly 
different for modern society: people. men and women who had a genuine concern for me and my problems. A very difficult part of being gay is the loneliness one encounters in coming to grips with one's self. You need someone who has experienced the same doubts, fears and hopes­-a priest or a psychologist may not be able to help you. I think that there are so many guys, and perhaps women, in this com­munity who are questioning their sexuality, and they really have no one to talk with about it. It is so very important to have someone, and that is why I turned to the SBGA. 
I am more at peace with myself now. having established the framework for friendship within the gay community at Notre Dame. I am personally liberated, yet I feel no need to announce my homosexuality to the public at large. I sat down with my roommates last week for many hours of just plain talk, I was tired of playing games and I think I knew how they would react all along. The three of them are very dear to me, and I am not ashamed to tell them that I love them. Too many people erect facades; I can't do that any longer. If my friends cannot accept me for what I am, then that friendship had little value to begin with anyway. At least that's the way I feel. My room­mates view me no differently now than before, and I am no less a man to them. 
My parents know that I have been exploring my sexuality. They are not pleased, feeling that, perhaps, they have failed me somewhere along the line. I don't think they have. I suppose I will have a long talk with them over the next break. I don't think they'll ever really understand; I'm not asking them to do that. But I would like them to know that I am still their son and the fact that I am a homosexual is not going to deter me from pursuing the goals that I have established for myself. My sexual preference is not going to stop me from doing that. 
It is a little saddening to realize that most of us who have found each other will be leaving Du Lac this May. For a brief time we will be togpther and maybe in that lime we can establish something for the future. so that those who remain, and those who will follow us will know to whom and where to turn. 
Indulge me, for a moment, to say thank you to my friend from across the road. A letter such as yours makes up many times over for the insults and barbs of those who are so insecure in their own sexuality. Thank you for takin~ the time and say how you feel. I wish that other people were able to express their feelings as openly as you. 
With this, let me close my discussion until another day, and to quote from Faith Baldwin, "I wish ... always for the capacity to love and to be loved. I wish for the ability to remember the good things and forget the rest, to create new memories and to be sustained by trust and hope and courage: and always to try to understand." 
Smile, my friends at Notre Dame. all your dreams are on t.heir way! 
Peace, love and hope ... One who cares 

the lottery 

Editor: 
'Tis the night before the lottery And I thank God it isn't me. I do not wait with bated breath For some clammy hand to pick my death. 
I have no fear, I am female. Yet, my ears ring with the fatherless baby's wail. I shake when the arms that have held me tight, Are lost in that far off, futile fight. 
My voice soon joins that ancient cry, Women watching men march off to die. In '17, in '45, and in '72, Fathers, brothers, uncles too. 
'Tis the night before the lottery, And sometimes I wish it could be me. All my prayers and frantic tears Are impotent, cannot soothe your fears. 
Women's lib--we rant and rave, But would we ever face that grave? We are sorry, men, whatever worth that may hold Though it can't keep you safe for growing old. 
---SMC student, Class of '75 

a poem 

Editor: 
A Poem by James Kavanaugh for the loving, the lost, the educated and cultured of our community. 
Once a Lad 

Once a lad with untold eagerness for love and life And questions in his eyes for which there were no words With energy like freshly bubbling springs emerging from the ground, Made his way to silent groves in academe and found Agrammarian's gravity to tell of Caesar and Homer in words Without surprise, dim and dull, replete with rules, Insisting that Achilles was but a genitive attending "heel" 
And Agamemnon proper subject of a sentence scarcely real. The blood was parsed from books-poetry lost in ponderous prose. Heading but a rat's performance memorized by those Who fought for little pellets of A's orB's And heard grave warnings made to boys who felt the breeze Of troy or made of Hannibal a hero on his elephants When masters bade him trudge across snowy Alps, Only to lead a verb again in search of its object. 
The lad became a kind of man replete with scholar's expertise That seemed to promise love but offered testimonials instead, and Left him filled with anguish and e_mptiness, disgust for learning, A seething desire to hang a collection of his masters 
Until the blood flowed from their infinitives and tenses and Their flesh could modify the ground in search of all their senses! 
Stupid lad! You should have known! A single glance enough: Gray buildings with bilious yellow halls-no music calls Or flowers-<mly Spartan sun­dries-dean terrazzo floors that only Seemed like stone but tasted lean like disinfectant and cement, Barren bathrooms, waxen toilet paper, beds aligned like coffins, Windows without curtains like prying eyes, the air dead, I<'ood. pale and pasty, unloved, a desperate creation Where potatoes disappeared in some milky, motherless in­carnation. 
God! He hated those creamed potatoes sliding down his throat! A proper pall for those who managed to endure it all, hoping that After battle there would appear some gentle, loving face To hold the weary in a nurturing embrace. But alas! Too late! Hope was only fantasy of heaven or release from stress, And passion squeezed like grapes was turned to vinegar's success. 
And oh, the sallow cheeks that checked his every move, Making it tense and measured till nothing round survived. Circles made no sense amid triangular and esoteric gods. But most of all a lad who wanted love. a reason to laugh, And got instead a scholar's rules and daily duels to break a spirit Till he cried: "I will to die!" But tried so hard, And such momentum built to stay alive That even now-he only struggles badly to survive And not to choke upon a single memory of 
Silence and soberness, 
Discipline and somberness, And creamed potatoes sliding down his throat. 
I<~ileen and Anne 


regrettable 
Editor: 
It is most regrettable that the Obsl'rver, serving students, faculty, parents, and friends, seemingly is the voice of the Notre Dame community. 
Regrettable, because a self­perpetuating editorial system, allows a handful of staff mem­bers who are no more representatives of this University than I am, to impose their views through the written word with a vehemence seldom, if ever, matched. 
T h e Observer c a n n o t distinguish between persons and causes. Your treatment of Sr. Alma and Fr. Burtchaell in recent articles is a good example. 
The Observer is a negative force. Your masthead quote of Mencken represents your values. What values influence you in the selection of your values? Cer­tainly, not Christian ones. Maria Gallagher's articles are a welcome exception. 
The Observer has a most juvenile approach to any com­plex problem. It depends on "humorous" characteriszation: Fr. Bended Knees, Sr. Holy Waater. 
The Observer is tearing down a great Christian university which has well served the people of this nation for 125 years. Many of the "personal ads" are totally nauseating and misrepresent to those off-campus, a prestigious institution. 
Msgr. Edward F. Spiers 

• 

Pa e 6 THE OBSERVER 
ct@)J





SMC Assembly affirms Gaal as VP 
10% OFF 

by Bob Long The St. Mary's Student Assembly last night affirmed their previous decision to retain ND sophmore John Gaal as in­terim Student Body Vice­President. The tie-breaking vote on the motion to retain Gaal by Paul Dziedzic came after heated discussion, during which assembly member Jim Clarke stalked out of the meeting, on an indictment alleging that Gaal's election was illegal. Sue Welte, chairman of the Student Judicial Board, presented the report. Miss Welte claimed that Gaal does not qualify as a member of the SMC student body, citing page one, article II, of the procedural manual: "All St. Mary's students shall be apriori members of the Student Government body ... Moreover, each student shall have the responsibility of paying the Student Government fee levied by the College." She added that the selection of Gaal through the Student Assembly is in violation of page 28, article IX, seciont VII, of the manual. which says: "In case of a vacancy of a student body elected position other than the Student Body President, there will be a school wide election." 
She proposed three alter­Gary Caruso proposed that the natives to the Assembly: to Judicial Board not have correct the rna tter internally, by jurisdiction over the Student having a school wide election; to Assembly in the appointment of consent to a hearing before the Gaal as interim vice-president. SMC judicial board; or to by-pass He said that according to Article the Judicial Board and take the V0 Section 1, points d and f, the case to the Appelate Board. Assembly has the power "to Miss Barlow questioned the Pxercise jurisdiction over all 
authority of the Student Relations legislation that really affects Board over the Assembly. She students" and "To settle all also claimed that if Gaal were to questions of jurisdiction within be removed from his post, then Student Govt." 
three at large Assembly mem­Caruso's motion fi!!ally passed bers from NO: Gary Caruso, Paul Dziedzic, and Jim Clarke should also be removed. 
She also cited Section Two of Article II of the manual stating that temporary members of the executive cabinet <the SBVP is a member l "shall be appointed by the Student Body President with a two-thirds majority of the Assembly." Barlow had relegated her authority to the Assembly. which elected Gaal February 2. 
Jim Clarke recommended that the matter be sent to the Ap­pellate Board. Janet Ryan agreed. saying, "We ought to take it to the Appeals Board to keep peace between two bran­ches of student government." 
Eileen Fitzpatrick dissented, believing that "if we go to the Appellate Board, we will be admitting that they <The Judicial Board l have control over us." 


Plea of South Bend man heard by ND students 
by Mary Romer 
A strong student response to an article and editorial in the Ob­server two weeks ago is giving one man a little stronger hold on life. 
Camile Geurs, a South Bend man, is suffering from an in­curable bone marrow and blood disease. It was arrested by removal of his kidneys last July 
0 
This forced him to rely on a kidney machine for life, spending three six-hour sessions a week on the machine. He also needs a blood transfusion every two weeks and sometimes the blood is hard to obtain, said Mrs. Guers. 
Mrs. Geurs decided to ask the Notre Dame and St. Mary's students for their help two weeks ago. The response to her appeal was overwhelming -59 units of blood were given,a several month supply for Mr. Geurs. 
Geurs, who will be 51 next month, has improved enough in the last two weeks that he may soon be ahle to return to work. Mrs. Geurs commented: "When it's either this or he dies, you don't hesitate. We're ever so grateful for all the students who turned out to give blood." 

7-li, with three abstentions. The 
On any mechanical 
Assembly then re-affirmed 
work and winterizing.
<iaal's election. 
For students and
The Assembly also passed a 
University Personnel
proposal by Darlene Gallina setting the date of the Student 
Roseland Gulf Government Primary as 
402 U.S. 31 North 
February 29, and the election 
Across t'romBurger King
March 2. 
ATTENTION PRE-LAW STUDENTS LSAT REVIEW COURSE NOW ACCEPTING STUDENTS FOR APRIL (AND OTHER) LSAT TESTS 
FOR INFORMATION: EDUCATIONAL IDEAS BOX 337 BLOOMINGTON IND 47401 CAMPUS REP KELLY FlYNN -232-8236 
GET AWAY TO EUROPE 



Summer study at University of Vienna EARN N.D. CREDIT GENERAL MEETING Thursday Feb. 17 7:00 LaFortune Fiesta lounge -Free Film 
Folk singers, other type musicians, & just plain interested people needed to work on creative musical 
programs for Head Start. 
Contact Dick Tarrier --7747 Or leave message with receptionist at Freshman Year Office. 


Student Union Academic Commission presents 



Ralph Nader 
Tonight -Stepan Center 9:00 
Fonya Davis 
& 


Mattew Eubanks 
Saturday Library Auditorium 8:00 
~-------------------------------------------------~------~------~-----"l 
Jim Kane makes waves on Irish swimming scene 
by Vito Dorr talked about his choice of Notre believes that the team has a place Dame, "l>ut swimming didn't in it too.
To date, the Notre Dame exactly fit into the picture. I "Sure," he said, "swimming'sswimming team has put together looked at a lot of schools, and an individual sport, buta record of seven wins and two Notre Dame was what I wanted. everything you do you do for alosses, and has assured itself of Swimming didn't have a whole lot team. If your team's winning,its first winning season since to do with my choice, but it did then you're a little more 'up' forI91i6-67. One of the biggest fac­have something to do with it. I your particular race. We wanted
tors in the tankers' current saw that Notre Dame had a team to win the first team relay lastsuccess has been freestyle that I could be part of, and I saw weekend against the Bonniesstandout Jim Kane. 
and I saw that I wouldn't have to because we thought it wouldTwo weeks ago, in a tri-meet 

against Oakland University and be a full-time swimmer break their spirit. We lost that here." race, but we were able to come
Wayne State, Kane was entered Kane, who consideres himself a back okay.
in four races. He swam the 100 "part-time" swimmer for NO, "Now against Wayne State, we
and 200 yards against both 
Oakland and Wayne State, and he did not compete at all last were able to win the first relay summer. He swam the 50 and 100 (the 400-yard medley l and I think 
posted first place finishes in all for Loyola High School in that really broke their spirit as afour events. Notre Dame swept Baltimore, but came to NO last team."
the meet, downing Wayne State 
year after a vacation from actual out

li7-46, and Oakland U. 60-53. The ND tankers will find
competition. Fmsh swim star .Jim Kane has been a big addition to coach Dennis
just how strong their "team

Last weekend, the tankers Stark's squad this srason.
squared off against St. "I didn't swim last year, so I spirit" is this weekend, when Bonaventure, their biggest rival was a little surprised when I they travel to LaFayette for a 
started doing so well up here," he meet with Purdue. The Boilersand again Kane was in blue admitted. "I can't put my finger ribbon form. He set pool and 

drubbed the Irish 84-39 last year,

Notre Dame varsity records in on just what the reason was, the 200 with a time of 1:48.4, and either. Maybe I'm just stronger, and have won eight of ten 
he set a new ND record in the 100 or maybe it's the coaching...it's meetings with ND. And this year, 
The Irish Eye
hard to say. Up here, though, you as in the past, the Boilers havewith a time of 49.1. 

have to do well individually, or the talent to give the Irish fits.

And at the conclusion of the the team won't do well.
meet. when the outcome was still "They've got a couple of people 
::::::=:=:=:=:=:::=:=:===========================================================================:=:Pia yoIf Patter

in doubt, he joined teamates Joe Jim has done very well in­who do around 1:50 in the 200," O'Connor, John Sherk, and Gene dividually this season, despite the said Kane, "and that's just about 
Although the Notre Dame hockey team has lost sixKrathaus in a record-setting fact that he had to change events where I am---and they also do straight WCHA games and 11 of its last 14 league starts, the season isCl: 16.5 l effort in the 400-yard when he came under Coach around 49.0 in the 100. So it looks far from over for the Irish icers.

relay. The win in the 400 gave ND Denny Stark's direction. like they're going to be pretty 
the meet, lil-52. "We had <Gene) Krathus in the good." Coach Lefty Smith's boys are looking ahead---to a spot in the WCHA playoffs and a chance to compete in the NCAA tourney, not backward
But Kane's greatest value to 50 last year, so coach decided to Kane and his teammates have at a disappointing season in which they've compiled only an 11-15the Irish swim program may well try me in the 200. But it didn't already .earned their winning be his age. The sprinter from really make that much difference season, but a victory over the record <7-13 in the WCHAl. Owings Mills, Md., is only a to me. The 100 is my favorite Boilermakers wouldn't hurt them Despite their prolonged slump, the Irish are still very much in
freshman, and he has a future race anyway, and besides the a bit. And Saturday afternoon contention for a playoff berth. Eight of the league's ten teams qualifythat is as bright as his present. change did help the team." Jim Kane will be trying to see for post-season competition and Notre Dame is currently locked in a"I had been thinking about Kane, while viewing swimming that the Irish swim team gets three-way lie for seventh place in the WCHA with Colorado Collegecoming here," said Kane, as he as an individual sport, also that victory. 
and Michigan. Each club has 22 title points. 

A look at the standings shows that the Irish could conceivably wind up fifth. but a more realistic finish would be in the seventh position.


Purdue mauls grapplers 
And even that won't be easy. 
by "Lefty" Ruschmann Michigan State is in fifth place with 32 title points heading into an <'ight point series with Minnesota-Duluth this weekend in East Lan­
Tlw powt>rful Boilermakers of sing. The UMD sextet has 36 points and is tied with Denver and North Purdue proved to be too much for Dakota for second place in the loop, trailing the Wisconsin Badgers,Notn• Dame's wrestlers Tuesday who have 42 points.
night, overcoming the out­manned Irish by a 37-2 count. The lluskies of Michigan Tech, who have a four-point series on tap Mike Fanning saved his Friday and Saturday at North Dakota, are just ahead of the Irish, in 
teamales from a shutout by sixth place, with 28 points. managing a draw with his heavyweight opponent. The tie, Notre Dame would like to be able to overtake the Huskies, but their however, snapped Mike's season­primary concern is finishing ahead of either Colorado or'Michigan, long string of 20 victories. which would at least ensure them of a playoff spot. 
Captain Ken Hyan was also frustrated in his attempt to set a The Irish still have a chance to pick up 16 points in the final three dub career record for wins, weekends of the campaign. They meet Denver in an eight-point series losing by decision in the 150-in the Mile High City Friday and Saturday nights and then wind up the pound .event. season with a couple of four-point series in the ACC, hosting Michigan 
Hiding time was the telling on f<'eb. 25 and 26 and Michigan State on March 3 and 4. factor in the first two matches, both of which went to Purdue by Coach Smith figures that his club will have to win "three out of the 
:1-2 margins. !IS-pounder Mike last six" if they are to make the playoffs and that would seem to be Martin tied Joe LaSpada of the accurate figuring, presuming that two of those three wins come Boilermakers, countering a against Michigan. 
takedown with two ('scapes. But 
The Wolverines are 9-13 on the year and, like Notre Dame, have 16

thP tim<' advantage tipped it in points remaining_ Michigan hosts tough Wisconsin in a four-point1 .aSpada's favor. Similarly. Vic s<'ries this weekend, then visits the ACC for their showdown with tlwlll'fiori of thl' Biveters outpointed Irish, and finishes the season with an eight-point series against the1:!fi lfi St<•ve Moylan on riding ('ellar dwelling Minnesota Gophers in Minneapolis.
tinw. aftt>r both wrestlers traded n•vprsals in the final two periods. 
Th<' Notre Dame-Michigan series shapes up to be a big one for both Purdue's 134-pound Tom teams. A sweep by either club would greatly enhance one team's 
Simpson had an easier time with 
playoff hopes while putting a severe crimp in the loser's post-seasonl{ick I<:sposto, disposing of him 6­plans. Back in the first week of December, the Wolverines managed to 

n. Until the third period, Simpson top the Irish twice in Ann Arbor by 6-5 scores. 
had nursed a 2-0 lead on an early Colorado College would seem to have the most difficult road to a
takedown. 142-pound Gary Drury could 
playoff spot. The Tigers, 8-14 in the WCHA, have only 12 points not pin NO's Curt Bramble, but pin at 1:49 of the opening period. due's Mike Cerqua was able to remaining_ They have four-point series slated for the next three did roll up a 29-11 bulge in a Bill Barnard notched the record a takedown. After a 
weekends, playing at Minnesota this Friday and Saturday, meeting Denver in a horne-and-home set next weekend, and closing with a pair

match which saw Drury register second Boilermaker pin of the scoreless first stanza, Cerqua of games in Duluth against the UMD Bulldogs.
<'Ieven takedowns. meet at 6:12 of the 177-pound escaped Fanning's grasp for a 1-0 
Dave Dilworth scored Purdue's bout. Barnard scored two in the lead in the middle period. This year's WCHA playoff arrangement will pit the eighth placefifth straight decision in the !50-first on a takedown. and extended. Fanning knotted it in the third finisher against the first place finisher at the top club's rink, number pound match. taking the measure his margin to !i-0 with an escape period with an escape, enabling seven at number two. six at three, and five at four in a two-game, total 
of the Irish captain Ken Hyan, 7-and another takedown. him to remain undefeated this goals playoff, March 7 and 8. The four winners will meet in another 
o. (;oing into the final period, Purdue's Mark Frankel 
season. two-game total goals series on March 10 and 11 with the home ice Dilworth clung to a 2-0 lead, managed the second lopsided The loss to Purdue dropped the advantage going to the highest regular season finishers. Again, as in which h<' gained on a first-period decision of the meet, a 14-2 Irish matmen to 10-3. This the first round, the team that finished lowest during the 26-gametakcdown. verdict over AI Rocek in a battle W<'ekend, coach Terry Mather campaign will have to meet the lop surviving finisher. 
With the score standing at 16-Q of !90's. Seven of Frankel's takes his squad on a road trip to in Purdue's favor. Brad llaving points came in a third-period Pennsylvania to face St. Francis There is no "final" round in the WCHA playoffs. The two remaining added six more in the !58-pound flurry, with time advantage of Loretto Friday at 8 p.m. THe teams are given prime consideration by the selection committee that match. providing the extra point. Irish will compete in the King's determines which two Western clubs compete against the Eastern .. After laking l<'ritz down in the In the heavyweight event, College Quadrangular Meet on Collegiate Athletic Conference's pair of representatives in the NCAA Parly going. !laving recorded a neither Mike Fanning nor Pur-Saturday afternoon at 2:00. Championships scheduled for March 16-18 in the Boston Garden. 





------------~ ----­
of 
of 
for 
to 
State Dept. announces Talks to follow China trip arranged at the White House. itinerary. <C> New York Times The State Department an­Tentative plans were for Green nouncement of the plans for the and Holdridge to leave the Nixon WASHINGTON-­The State briefing also listed South Korea, party at Anchorage, Alaska,Department announced today the Philippines, South Vietnam, on Feb. 28, when the presidential that high officials would consult Thailand, Indonesia, Austral,ia jet lands to refuel after leaving with Asian and Pacific Allies of and New Zealand or\ the Shanghai. the United States at the end of President Nixon's journey to China, which begins tomorrow morning. The department said that Marshall Green, an Assistant Secretary of State for East Asian and Pacific Mfairs, and John H. Holdridge, a senior White House staff member, would fly to Tokyo immediately after the visit for discussions with Japanese of­ficials and would then call on eight other governments, in­cluding that of Nationalist China. Nixon is scheduled to begin his discussions in Peking on Monday, following four days of travel and rest in the Pacific region. Canned Heat and Bloodrock will appear in concert this Thursday,His departure from February 17th at the Morris Civic Auditorium. There will be two Washington tomorrow on the first shows, one at 6:30 and the other at 9:30. Tickets are priced at $4-$5 and leg of what he has called $6. They will be available at the door. Above are two members of his "Journey Tor Peace" is to be Canned Heat, Bob "The Bear" Hite and Joel Scott Hill. surrounded by the cabinet and other officials at Andrews Air Force Base in Maryland--this one is to be a state occasion, with a WANT A JOB? military honor guard on the White House lawn, the Ad­ministration's top leaders and congressional figures, foreign Need girl to work in Campus Press -as adiplomats and as many as a receptionist on Mon. Wed, Fri. 1 to 5 beginning thousand children from the March 8. Job continues next yr.-5 days Mon-Fricapital's public schools. After the farewells President if possible. (could work out alternative) Fresh. and Mrs. Nixon will fly by or Soph preferred Good pay -great fringe helicopter to Andrews, where, benefits. Call Kathy-283-7047 Mon. Wed. Fri 1-5  CLASSIFIED ADS  
NOTICES WANTED DISCOUNT TRAVEL. To and POETRY WANTED for An~ Within Europe. Leave anytime thology. Include stamped en~ from NY~ Chicago. Flight Center velope. Idlewild Press, 1807 E. 227 North Randall, Madison, WI. Olympic Boulevard, Los Angles, 53706. California 90021. ATTENTION PRE-LAW Need ride to U. Of ill. Feb. 18. STUDENTS!!! LSAT REVIEW Call 4353. COURSE NOW ACCEPTING STUDENTS {OR APRIL (AND Models needed $10-hr. Male or FOR OTHER LSAT TESTS.) Female. Call 6~8 pm, 283-6811. FOR INFORMATION CONTACT: KELLY FLYNN, 232-8236. Need ride to U. Of Ill., around AVERAGE SCORE INCREASE Feb. 18, Call Joan 4346. 100 POINTS. Need ride to New Jersey, Feb. 18. Need typing done??? Will do Share expenses Bob 1841. typing for reasonable rates and on short notice ~~ don't waste time HELP! I need a ride to DETROIT pecking away. Call Chip 8256. or Grosse Pointe this Friday and Saturday, Feb. 25. (Will share OVERSEAS JOBS FOR expenses, driving) Please call STUDENTS. Australia, Europe, Pete,-1721. S. America, Africa, etc. Jilll professions and occupations, $700 PERSONALS to $3,000 monthly. Expenses paid, Come home Bob. New potholders overtime, sightseeing, Free in­purchased. Love, Maud. formation Write, JOBS OVERSEAS, Dept. F2, Box 15071, Dear INSTITUTIONALIZED San Diego, CA 92115. Consuelo, Your REPUTATION still stands pat in yours and my· Long layer cuts $3.00. Trims, book (I don't believe it) $2.50. Ca II Ann between 5 & 5:30 at Cavanaugh Bell ~man 7471. Computer Dating 4th Floor Flanner Sect on Dinner. Write: Data ~Mate We have Water Buffalo. P.O. Box 703 Needed: South Bend Cobra Eel Books ~ Can't find them? Panther Try Pandora's Iguana S.B. at N.D. aves. Noon~Midnight. Toucan Nassau Trip ~ March 24-31. $202 Cold dogs inclusive for quad accomodalions, Perpetual popcorn Hotel and air trans. Avail. Cotton ~candied arms separately on sale' now at Student Syrupless sno-cones without ice Union Ticket Office. Questions: And one frazzled-nerved girl Call 7757. Many thanks to everybody who helped me out. TEACHERS! M.A.'s, abd's, earn a pittance while working for small FREE THE LYONS HALL FIVE! new classical Christian 7th~9th grade school. English, Latin, Phyllis and other interested Math, Science teachers needed. parties, Send vital list of references, any Everything going according to statements for curriculum design plan. How about you?  
without further ceremony, they or come in-will board the Spirit of '76, a B Boeing 707 jetliner, for the 10­hour flight to Kaneohe Marine Air Station in Hawaii. Campus Press The presidential party will Bsm t. LaFortune remain in Hawaii until Saturday Student Center and then continue to Guam to spend the night, to Shanghai, a efueling stop and on to Peking.r-Today the House of Start the weekend off rightRepresentatives unanimously approved a resolution--which was sent to the Senate--declaring next Monday, when Mr. Nixon arrives TGIF in China, as a day of national Every Friday from 2: 30 pm to 6: 00 pm All thesupport for his pursuit of peace. The resolution also proposes that Budweiser you think you can drink for only a Sunday be designated as a $2.00 cover. (18 year old ID required) national day of prayer for World.Peace. Draft Beer -­Band -­DancingOn the Senate floor, the majority leader, Mike Mansfield Montana, praised the President for playing "an ex­ceptional personal role" in im­proving relations with China. The minority leader, Hugh Scott 2802 SOUTH 11th ROADof Pennsylvania, told the Senate he presidential journey was "antNILES, MICHIGAN 49120 earth-shaking event in itself." Phone 683-4350 Mansfield and Scott will be among the Congressional leaders who are to meet privately with Nixon tomorrow before the start the nationally televised JESUSceremonies. Nixon, who returned to the RETREATWhite House after 24 hours of eclusion st Camp David, MD.,sAn evenmg of Mass, dinner, andwished at give the Congress  to Magdalen School. Post Box Hunter 1225, South Bend, Indiana 46624. All candidates will be contacted. Midland Miss: Thank you for the valentine tea. Ski racers interested in ~~the little kid representing N.D. Call Doug 233­5542. To the unsmickette who invited me to share valentine's day EUROPE THIS SUMMER! Earn dinner, i'm never alone but your Notre Dame credit at University offer was sincerely appreciated. of Vienna, Austria. Ample op~ chip portunity for tours or independent travel. 234-6519. THE MARX BROTHERS, THE BEST IN COMEDY, SHOWING Have you ever looked over the THIS WEEKEND AT THE edge? Edge City (Coffeehouse) BADIN VINTAGE CINEMA. REMINDER~~MARX Try it. you 'II Iike it from the BROTHERS SHOWING AT THE Chicago Six, John, Martha, Ed, BADIN VINTAGE CINEMA THIS Chris, Bob, Diane. WEEKEND. Will the guy with the convertible AMERICA COFFEE HOUSE who hit me on Feb. 4 at 3:30am, (FLANNER BASEMENT) FRI near the intersection of Angela & NIGHT~ DAVE GRAY, BILL ND Avenue please call Chris at BlANFORD, KOEHLER AND 4340. SARTON PLUS SOME OPEN TIME. FREE COFFEE. OPENS QUESTIONS 8:30. How Did This Paper Get In MyFOR SALE Dream? Parts and Accessories for lm· LOST AND FOUND ported cars. Foreign Car Parts Co. 215 Dixieway North Girl's initial ring found in Badin (Roseland) 272~7187. Cinema. Identify and pay for ad. 6917 ~ 6912. Used Sweepers trade in's will sell cheap to move. Call 287~8973. Lost: Near North dining Hall or O'Shaugnessy; Hand-knitted, Michelin X Tires-~ 165-380-15" with Blue~Gold neck scarf. Double tubes. For all VW Bugs; most 15" thickness with gold tassels. sports and imports. Best offer. (Personal value) Call Cliff 8695. 255~6725. Lost: Blue wallet at Mardi Gras ~ For Sale: Minolta lens McRokkor Reward. Call 272~5374. 55mm., fl.7, $65. Tel. 233-2340 after 5:00pm. Lost: Black, vinyl NCAA Fencing -----~­Tournament notebook in 214 '69 Datsun 1600 cc stick shift. Computer Bldg. ImportantGood condition. Call 259-8268 after papers inside needed. Reward 7 pm. offered. Dan Rock 3589.  
Leaders a final report before prayer. Followed by a day of talks leaving. A White House spokesman said on what it means to be a Christian. he could not recall a precedent the departure ceremonies, From: 4:45 pm Friday, February 18.particularly the summoning of chool children.sHe said that To: 9:00 pm Saturday, February 19.children are often invited to White House lawn ceremonies for he arrival of foreign dignitaries tbecause such occasions have "education! value". Call 1507 (afternoons) When Nixon's predecessor, Lyndon B. Johnson, left on Oct. 234-3529 (nights) 17, 1966, on his "hopeful mission" Asia, departure ceremonies comparable in scope to the Sponsored by True Housegreetings for foreign heads of state were held at Dulles In­ternational Airport, some 25 Catholic Pentecostal Community miles from here, but nothing was  New 8~track tapes for sale ($4) 230 Fisher Call 1972. Words 1da 2da 3da 4da Sda 1-10 .65 .95 1.15 1.35 1.55 11-15 l.OO 1.50 1.85 2.10 2.40FOR RENT 16-20 1.30 1.95 2.15 2.55 2.95 21-25 1.70 2.55 3.20 3.85 4.45Two bedroom townhouse near 26-30 2.10 3.15 3.95 4.75 5.45Town and Country Shopping 31-35 2.45 3.65 4.45 4.75 6.15Center. 11 2 baths. Reasonable. 36-40 2.80 4.20 5.25 6.75 7.75Call anytime after 5. 259-0512. 41-45 3.15 4.70 5.90 7.10 8.20 46-50 3.55 5.20 6.50 7.80 8. 95  
USE CLASS· ADS -GET RESULTS I  




