
On The Inside 
voter registration deadlines ... pg. 5. 
SMC power structure 
... pg. 2. 

serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VII No. 28 Tuesday1 October 17I 1972 

Women representatives will gain seat on SLC 
by Bruce Petrovick The Student Life Council resolved yesterday representation from the Notre Dame women, the formation of standing committees, and a schedule of meeting dates. The SLC voted unanimously that Student Body President Bob Kersten hold an election in Badin and Walsh Halls within two weeks to find a woman representative. 
Etienne's seat used 

The Steering Committee had recommended that the SLC obtain a representative-from the women undergraduate students. It had provided three suggested methods of achieving this. However, the resignation of Ed Gray as Student Body Vice President and the election of Dennis Etienne as his replacement remedied the situation. Etienne had already been seated in Bob Kersten's ex­officio seat and his new post left him with another on the SLC. Since this is against SLC by-laws it was then decided by Student Government thtat the womens representative could sit in the place of Kersten. 

lour committees 

The Council also voted to accept the Steering Committee's recommendations for four standing committees in addition to the Steering Committee: a Planning Committee, Hall Life Committee, Campus Life Com­mittee, and a Rules Committee. A question rose over the problem of overlapping responsibility between certain committees, and it was decided that the steering Com­mittee would act as a "traffic cop" to handle such matters. 
The SLC will meet on the first Monday of each month, Standing Committees will meet on the second and third Mondays, and open hearings by the committees will be on fourth Mondays of each month. 
This schedule was proposed in a slightly different form by Acting Vice-President for Student Affairs Philip J. Faccenda. He proposed a system whereby there would be regular meetings of teh SLC on the first Monday of each month, Standing Committee Meetings on the second Monday, public hearings on the third Monday, and Standing Committee meetings on the fourth Monday of each month. 
Faccenda supported his plan of public hearings by saying, "We need campus and community attention for some of this year's issues and this is one way to get it." 
Earlier the Council had voted to meet once every four weeks, but reversed it's decision in favor of Mr. Faccenda's plan. The previous scheme had prompted a multitude of discussion in which Floyd Kezele SLC Towers Representative told members, "It has been my found in my past experience with the Council that in meeting every two weeks, a deadline is put on the committees and so more will get done." 
The Council also set up the membership of its Standing Committees, accepted a Graduate Student to a seat with speaking but no voting rights, and discussed holdin meetings at Holy Cross Hall. The Council is also looking for a secretary, this is a paid position. 



LaFortune study needs volWlteers 
by Denise Crowley Observer Staff Reporter 
The Student Center Committee, to research the possibilities and facilities of the student center, has as yet received no applications for positions on any of the sub­committees. 
The four subcommittees, Architecture, Facilities, Food Services, and Publicity, require input from interested students in order to succeed, according to Dan Schipp, one of the organizers of the group. 
Schipp, a member of the Facilities Committee, was enthusiastic about the possibilities for the Committee as a whole. "I don't think we see much of a hassle in getting the center open twenty-four hours a day," he said. 
His committee will study the present use of all the rooms and the extent of their use. They will then make suggestions as to which facilities should be retained and what new ones should be added. 
"It all depends on the students' needs and wants," says Dave Caruso, another member of the committee. 
Dr. Robert Ackerman, Director of Student Activities, said that "unless the facilities offered there could be improved, there is no sense in opening the door twenty­four hours a day." He felt that there was "no reason to go there if it is open." Improvement and expansion of facilities can be done in response to the need of the students, as expressed through the Committee. 
"The whole program will concern long range goals and things that will be accomplishsd in the near future," Schipp revealed. The most important thing now is to overcome the "apathy of the s.tudent body." 
The study will be presented in February and the results of it could be seen next semester if the administration is convinced the changes are needed. 
Students interested in serving on any of the sub­committees should call either the Student Activities office or the Student Government office, and leave name, ad­dress and phone number. 
l 
1
SMC benefactor McCandless is dead at 92 
~ 
Marion McCandless, 92, alumnae secretary emeritus of Saint Mary's College, Notre Dame, died at noon, yesterday, after forty-five years service to the College and its ten thousand alumnae. She had been a patient in the Saint Mary's Convent In­firmary since July 1, 1972. 
McCandless, a graduate of Saint Mary's College in 1900, was born in Pinckneyville, Illinois, April 7, 1880, the daughter of Dr. William 
L. and Elizabeth Ritchie McCandless. Her ties with Saint Mary's College began early in life. Her mother was a gradute of 1877, an aunt and great-aunt were 1875 graduates. 
After college graduation, she returned to her home town, serving as postmistress. Her father before her served as the town's post­master. She was active in the early years of the International Federation of Catholic Alumnae, 
serving in various office on its ··•••••••••••••• across this country, now num­
Board of Directors, 1919 to 1946. 
Founded Courier 
In 1927 she became the first professional alumnae secretary at Saint Mary's College. In the same year she founded the Alumnae Association's quarterly magazine, the Courier. 
Published Family Portraits 
In 1952 Miss published the history of the Alumnae Association, 1879-1949, Family Portraits, termed best of its kind by professional colleagues. 
She travelled extensively in the United States, Europe and South America, visiting alumnae and establishing a network of bering fifty-seven throughout the United States. 
Received Magnificat Medal 
Mundelein College, Chicago, in 1956 awarded Miss McCandless its ninth Magnificat Medal, which is conferred annually upon a Catholic college alumnae who, utilizing her college training to the fullest, has intensified appreciation for Christian social living by the character of her own life and by her contributions to social, 
·aesthetic, scientific, philanthropic religious leadership." Her own alma mater conferred her an honorary Doctor of 
degree at the 1957 Com­mencement. The Alumnae Association recognized her con­
Marion McCandless 
tribution to its development when 1880-1972 it awarded her, at her sixty-fifth 
I 
1 anniversary reunion, the Evarista 1 Brady Cotter Cup for outstanding service to the College. The most 1 recently built student residence is 
1
,
named Marion McCandless Hall in her honor. She retired in 1954, and was one of the College's major financial benefactors. 
Funeral arrangements are being handled by Hickey Funeral Home, South Bend, Indiana. Friends may call on Tuesday, October 17, 1972 between 2:00p.m. and 10:00 p.m. at Saint Mary's College, Le Mans Hall, Stapleton Lounge. The funeral Mass will be Wednesday, October 18, 1972 at 11:00 a.m. in Saint Mary's College Church of Our Lady of Loretto. Reverend 

l 
Philip G. Corbet, Miss McCandless' 

1
newly ordained godson, will be the main celebrant. He is attached to Saint Jude's parish in South Bend. Burial will follow the Mass in Our Lady of Peace Cemetary, Saint Mary's College, Notre Dame. 


2 the observer Tuesday, October 17, 1972
' 


l Planning process committee releases report 
r 

by Maria Gallagher Observer St. Mary's Editor 

f The first of a series of planned reports to the Saint Mary's com­munity on the progress of the Planning Process has been released by planning Committee Chairperson Donald Homing. Included in the report is a description of the structure and guidelines established by the committee, as well as information concerning where reports and proceedings of the Planning and Area Committees may be obtained and an invitation to students to participate in one of the task forces which feed ideas and information into the Committee. The Planning Committee's first meeting was an organizational meeting on September 23 in which definitions were arrived at for the Planning Process itself and the Core Structure of that process. The Planning Process refers 


personages, and organizational 
entities through which information 
will flow on through which which 
recommendations will be chan­
nelled." 

The CoreStructurerefers to that 
part of the organizational struc­
ture extending from the 
President's Office on down through 
the Area Committees. 

Within these two organizational concepts lie the numerous com­mittees and and task forces charged with reviewing the present and making recom­. mendations for the future course of Saint Mary's. Two major com­
mittees have been formed: 

Planning Committee-the major 
committee involved in the Plan­
ning Process. All appointments to 
the committee were made by 
President Henry following ex­
tensive consultation with members 
from the entire Saint Mary's 
community. The composition of constituencies of the college: twelve are faculty, seven are administrators, three are students, two are parents, and one is an alumna. In addition to the primary representation,many of these also cut through other constituencies : four are esc sisters, several are members of the Board of Regents, some are tenured faculty and some 
non-tenured, some are relatively new members of the community while others have geen members for many years. 
Area Committees--On the assumption that there are key "affinities of interest" within the college community, seven Area Committees were established, which deal with Values .and · goals, Student Life, Academic Concerns, Faculty Affairs, Governance, Physical Requirements, and Development. The Chairperson and Vice­Chairperson for each of the Area Committees are also members of the Planning Committee. All Area Committee appointments were made by President Henry. 
Under each of the Area Com­mittees will be a series of task forces dealing with specific aspects of the community, and which will concern themselves with gathering information and ideas, and submitting proposals to the Planning Committee for consideration. Any member of the community is eligible to contribute to a task force, and may contact Committee heads or Dr. Donald Horning for more information. 
The report noted that the Planning Committee is not a policy-making body. It is merely recommendatory, and the recommendations and reports of 
(continued on pg. 7) 
The Observer is publiShed. daily during the college semester ex­cept vacations by the students of the U11iversity of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S8 per semester (14 per year) from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, .Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 

46556._ 

Frankie Corrigian says 
you can't get a beffer buy than 
FRANKIE'S STEAK & SCHLITZ 

Wed. night special 
6 Oz. of delicious rib eye bowl of homemade soup salad bread & butter & coffee 



$1.50 
and if you're 21, Schlitz by the pitcher $1.00 with your meal. 
Wednesday from 5-8 pm 
SMC Power structure 
UDIT IIAIQ' 'I OOU.IGI, 
~ 
S H u L A 
H 
Not everyone can make it to 
the Senior Bar, Besides, "Emil T." can wait until u Thursday night 
L 


~ J'\lite C/u/, 
A 
2802 SOUTH 11th ROAD NILES, MICHIGAN 49120 
Phone 683-4350 

s H U L A 
'S 
H 
u 
L A 
'S

r 
I r 
~ 
! r 
to the "entire set of committees, the committee reflects the 



warld briefs 
<c> 1972 New York Times 
Los Angeles--Sen. George McGovern, prompted by a disturbance at a meeting with union officials in Los Angeles, characterized the Nixon Administration as the "most ruthless" in history and lectured the news media on "maturity," His angry remarks followed an argument between a Los Angeles Fire Marshall and an American Broadcasting Company television crew that interrupted the Presidential Nominee's address to leaders of the United Auto Workers Union. 
Washington--President Nixon's Re-election forces reacted on three fronts to charges that important Nixon aides had created and sustained a widespread effort to disrupt the Democratic campaign. One of those reacting was White House Press Secretary Ronald L. Ziegler, who described the charges as "hearsay, innuendo, guilty by association." 
Washington--Less than 12 hours after he was sworn in as Army Chief of Staff, Gen. Creighton W. Abrams was sent to South Vietnam Monday on what was officially portrayed by Pentagon spokesman as a routine on-the-scene assessment of growing South Vietnamese military capabilities. Administration officials, however, hinted that the visit, coming only four months after General Abrams returned from four years as military commander in Vietnam, was far from routine. 
an campus taday 
7-9·11 p.m.--movie, all quiet on the western 
front, engineering auditorium, ad­
mission, $1.00 

B p.m.--lecture, theodore lowi, professor of government of cornell, library auditorium 
8:30 p.m.--play, the birds, by the national players in o'laughlin auditorium, CAC, tickets $3, free with patron card. 

at nd-smc 

,-------------------------------------------­
Tuesday, October 17, 1972 the observer 
•

Black enrollment drops lD freshman class 
by Dean Mayors Observer Staff Reporter 
The number of black students enrolled in this year's freshman class is lower than in either of the past two years, according to Assistant Admissions Director Dan Saracino. 
Saracino attributed the decline in the enrollment of blacks to the fact that academically qualified hlack students are being sought by literally every college and university in the country. "The numbers of applications and ac­ceptances of blacks were just as high this year as in the past two years," said Saracino, "but fewer blacks decided to actually enroll at Notre Dame." 
Saracino released yesterday figures indicating that the class of '76 contains twenty seven blacks as compared to 49 last year and 59 in 


Niles police nab students 
by Dave Rust Observer Staff Reporter 
Niles' (Michigan) police con­firmed yesterday that two Notre dame students were arrested by the police in Niles during the Homecoming weekend just ended. 
Reportedly the two have been charged with possession of dangerous drugs. 
The police chief at Niles has released all the information concerning their arrests to Notre Dame Security Director Arthur Pears, and the security depart­ment should release that in­formation today. 
Notre Dame Dean of Students Fr. Hames Riehle refused to confirm any of this information except to say that two students had been arrested. 
Youth Fare bcm 
will not affect 
foreign flights 
British Overseas Air Company representative-on-campus Clark Eide hastened to make clear today that the Civil Aeronautics Board's decision to outlaw ·youth fares does not affect foreign flights. 
Yesterday's Observer reported that the CAB is planning on an­nouncing in November its decision to cut out youth fare discounts. 
Eide reminds potential fliers that there exists no such abolish­ment of youth fares for students wanting to travel overseas. 
However, reports, BOAC's Eide, as of Dec. 1 of this year the age limit now set at 26 years-old for youth fares on international flights will be dropped to 23, ·and each airlines customer under that age will be met with a $20 increase on each flight fare. 
The age will drop still further, to 21,on April 1, 1973, and will stabilize at that point, all fares remaining the same except for normal across-the-board-rises 
Both decisions were made under the authority of the International Association of North Atlantic Carriers, whose commerce is restricted to Europe and the Middle East, where almost all U.S. student foreign traffic heads. 
It is the IANAC, and not the CAB, which controls international flights. 
But even with the drops in the age limit and increase in fares internationally, says Eide, there will be "nothing as drastic as complete abolition (of the youth fare l." 
"We <BOAC) still have youth fare," he says, "but many airlines do think youth fares are discriminatory." 
possible in contacting qualified
1970. 
black students," he commented.

Saracino indicated that such a He hastened to add, however, thatsignificant decline is not due to any new methods are being employed decreased effort on the part of the this year so that greater numbers
administration to recruit blacks. 
of blacks will enroll in comingHe commented, "We are, in fact, trying harder each year to in­years. crease the number of not only black students but all minority New Methodsstudents." He added that the primary objective of the Ad­One such innovation is themissions Office is the enrollment of "as many students from minority establishment of a committee of seven black students who willethnic groups as possible." 

personally contact each high school senior who decides to applyFederal Government to Blame to Notre Dame. The purpose of such a committee, according to In addition to higher competition Saracino, will be to "informally 
among colleges for blacks, follow up on each applicant." Saracino blamed the decrease in enrollment of blacks on the federal In addition to the creation of a 
government. "We were told to committee, Saracino noted that expect only fifteen thousand special trips are being planned by dollars of the seventy-five both Notre Dame admissions thousand dollars we had been counsellors and minority students promised in National Educational to various cities such as Detroit, Opportunity Grants," he said. Chicago, and Philadelphia. While "This made it impossible for us to hesitating to term them "recruiting 9rovide an adequate number of trips," Saracino did state that the scholarships to blacks." trips comprised "extra effort" to 
Many blacks who had been increase interest in Notre Dame in accepted thus found it impossible areas of high minority group to enroll at Notre Dame because of concentration. 
finnancial reasons. "Finally when it was too late to enroll As a third means to increase students, we were notified that black student enrollment, Saracino over fifty thousand dollars would commented that Notre Dame is be available," said Saracino. now working in conjunction with 
the National Scholarship Service 

A decrease in both athletic and Fund for Negro Students. He grants-in-aid and ROTC noted that NSSFNS serves scholarships to blacks further essentially as a "guidance coun­contributed to the decline in black sellor" for blacks attending highenrollments, according to schools whose own counsellingSaracino. He added that such . services are of dubious merit. fluctuations are "uncontrollable as Through NSSFNS, Notre Dame far as this office is concerned." seeks out minority students who 
might consider applying to Notre dame, according to Saracino. Overall Minority Enrollment Enrollments can be Increased Greater 
Despite the significant decrease Saracino said he felt that by such in the enrollment of blacks, methods the University can Saracino stated that the overall : significantly increase black numbers of minority group enrollments. "We can change enrollment increased over last the low statistics ~ year's figures. He cited as proof for 1972-73," he stated, "and the fact that "twice as many we can do so by using 'soft sell' Chicanos and Indians are enrolled methods -we want blacks to know in this year's freshman class as in what life for a minority student at 1971." Notre Dame is really like." 
Nevertheless, Saracino was When asked if increasing the dissatisfied with the current number of applications to blacks figures on black enrollment. "We would not be the best means to have not made as great an effort as 1 insure greater final enrollment, 
An Afternoon with DR. ROBERT GORDON 
Coffee and Conversation 
3:30-5:00pm OCTOBER 18 

Library Auditorium Sponsored by the G. S. U. 
TICKET EXCHANGE St. Mary's Students 
can turn in tickets for ND-'Miss game 
Tuesday night during dinner hours at the LeMons entrance of dining hall We Need Your Help· 
Young Voters for the President 
Important Meeting Tonight
7:30 pm LaFortune 2nd floor '----------------room 2-C' 
Saracino commented, "I suppose that the proportion of enrollments 



God's Gifts! 

would be greater if we increased the applications, but I think we 

Man's Love? 

should work primarily on getting more of the blacks we've already 
There is a great deal of talk about the need for people to

accepted to enroll here." 
love one another, to care about

Saracino concluded that he 
loving and understanding one

wants greater numbers of minority 
another. But rarely has this

students, but above all he wants 
theme been articulated as well

"qualified" students . He stated 
as it is in the best-selling

that he wants to dispel the image 
ELEMENTS OF HOPE. 

that some white racist students have of blacks: "They seem to 
Join Boston University's Paul­think that the term 'minority 
ist Chaplain James Carroll as student' means 'inferior student'." 
he hums to you "of earth, fire, water, air;/elements of life and 

Said Saracino, "We take pride in 
of our brotherhood/and words

the fact that over 30 percent of the 
of hope." For he does care and

minority students in this year's 
shares with you his very per­

freshman class are Notre Dame 
sonal view of this world of ours.

scholars while only 15 percent of theentirefreshman class have been 
With gripping word imagery he accorded that honor." 
describes the elements, God's gifts, to bring you to a real­ization of what man is doing to

Econ. fraternity 
destroy himself and the earth. Horror and destructiveness are there, and so is a reminder of the beauty and hope and prom­


sponsers debate 
ise that surround us. 

Omnicron Delta Epsilon, the 
ELEMENTS OF HOPE is a national economics fraternity is 
sensitive appeal to the senses as sponsoring a debate on the 
well as to the mind, "something economic issues in thiis year's 
in between God-talk and love songs ... one man's humming

political campaign. The debate 
of his soul." If you or your

will be held in the Library 
group have not yet read and

Auditorium at 8:00 Wednesday 
discussed ELEMENTS OF
night. 
HOPE, why not be one of the

Dr. James Rakowski, assistant 
first on campus to "bring the professor in the ecnomics 
message home" to those around department, and John Lonergan, 
you? economics graduate student, will 
See ELEMENTS OF HOPE at

defend the policies of President 
your local bookstore, or order

Richard Nixon. Dr. Ken Jameson, 
directly from the publisher.

assistant professor in the 
The cost? Only $4.95 per copy

economics department, and Dr . 
for this 112 page, large Slh"

John Houck, professor of 
x 11" hardcover book filled 

management, will defend the 
with full-color photography.

economic policies of Democratic 
(Low group prices available candidate George McGovern. 
for quantity purchase. Write: Dr. Dennis Dugan, chairman of 
Paulist Press, Dept. 0, 400 Sette the economics department, will 
Drive, Paramus, N.J. 07652.) moderate the debate. 


MOVIE 

Can Heironymous Merkin Forget Mercy Humpee and Find True Happiness 
Eng. Aud 6:30,9:00,11:30 
Admission: $1 
with Connie_ Kreske and Anthony Newley 
Oct. 17 & 18 


PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Placement Bureau Interviews Week of October 23, 1972 
Interviews are for seniors and graduate students. Sign-up sched­ules are in Room 207, Main )lldg. Interview times must be selected and signed for in person. Hours are 8:00 a.m. to S :00 p.m. eech day, except Friday. The Placement Manual giveo additional informa­tion regarding interviews and procedures. 
OCT .23 Booton University. MBA Program. All degrees, all majora. Carnegie-Mellon Utliveraity. Grad. School of !lUll. AdJoin. BS in all majora. Calculus required. Diebold Incorporated. BS in !g.Sci., 1!.1!., H.E. IIIlA in Jltt. and Acct. 
S. C. Jobneon & Sona;Inc. BS, HS in H,l!. and .E. 
OCT.23 Arthur Ycamg & Company. & 24 liM in Acet. MBA. Jll. 
OCT. 24 Whirlpool Corporation. BIIA in !Itt. BS in Comp.Sci. MBA. 
OCT. 24 Bethlehem Steel Corporation. & 25 BS in C.l., I.E., lg,Sci., H.l. BIIA in Acct. B.A., BBA., BS -all majora interested in tech .salee. 
OCT •25 Navy, Department of BS, HS in C,l., I.E., M.l. and Met. Sundetrand Corporation. BS in H.l!, 
OCT.25 Peat, Matvick, Mitchell & eo. & 26 Bllt. in Acct. MBA with Accounting background. 
OCT.26 Kentucky, Utliveraity of. Grad. School of BUIIineoo. BA, BS, MBA, MS. All majors. 
OCT. 26 General Electric Company. & 27 BS, MS in A.E., Ch.E., E.B., Bngr.Phya., Eg.Sci., Met., 
H.I!., H.I!.I.O., H.I!.N.O. BS in Math, MBA with technical undergraduate backgr01Did. 
OCT.27 Cl'C International, Inc. BS in Ch.l!. and M.E. Factory Mutual Engineering Assoc. BS in H.l!., C.E., Ch.E., E.E., A.E., Eg.Sci. Stanford University. Grad .School of Business. All degrees, all majors. 
Employer information. Alternatives. Teaching. Action/Peace Corps/Vista. Federal Service. Room 222, Administration Bldg. 
jlfllllllllllllllltiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIHIII 

THE OBSERVER 
the football ticket 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 

exchange program
Editorials printed in The Observer reflect the opinion of the writer,
News: '283-1715 
on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the
EditoriaI: 283-8661 
individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial comment.
Business: '283-7471 
IIIIIUIIIIIIIItHmllltiUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIII. j b i ftIJle 
Tuesday, October 17, 1972 
Today is the last day designated for Notre Dame and S(. Mary's students to turn in their tickets to the Ticket Exchange Program. It gives the students the opportunity to turn in their football tickets in order that a child from South Bend might see the Notre Dame­
We got beat Missouri game. 
As important as minority recruitment is the crucial admission we all have to make is that this year we got beat. 
It's not really hard to see why. Dan Saracino, assistant admissions director, was right when he said that academically qualified black students are sought by every college in the country. The question now is how can we collectively make Notre Dame a more desireable place for minority students--blacks, chicanos, and Indians. 
New Methods 

The admissions office is doing its best to attack the problem--the committee of black students, the recruitment trips and the increased cooperation with the National Scholarship Service Fund for Negro Students. But intensified recruitment efforts can't change the fact that socially and culturally Notre Dame is a pretty dull place for minority students. 
More emphasis ought to be placed on improving the socio-cultural atmosphere. 
Then, instead of discussing Notre Dame's potential recruiters could point to genuine advancements that the university has made in the area of minority relations. Right now the biggest 
claim that the universitycanmake is that the University Press is one of the biggest publishers of chicano literature in the United States. 
Channeling some university money into the black student clubs on campus via the black studies program would provide the impetus to build an interesting and provocative cultural program. For in­stance, Notre Dame could imitate St. Mary's fine American Scene Cultural Series in which students who attend the weekly lectures receive one credit upon completion of a paper. By using the current faculty and several guest lec­turers an excellent program on minority problems might be developed. 
For the minority students 

A cultural series would benefit the 
entire campus but we should also begin looking for solutions to the problems peculiar to minority students at Notre Dame. The biggest of these is the ex­treme lack of female blacks, chicanos, and Indians. The admissions and financial aid departments should make a special effort in the next several years to meet this problem head on. Its hard even to make suggestions in this area which indicates that we are all short of in­formation. 
In order to close the information gap the best move the university could make would be to form a task force on female minority recruitment. With the information this group would make public we could begin to make positive headway toward increasing the number of minority women on campus. 
John Abowd 

For those underclassmen unfamiliar with the program and for those upperclassmen who have forgotten, the project works like this. About 700 children from the South Bendlarea who are af­filiated with different volunteer services are invited to come to the Notre Dame game. Thus, they are all looking forward to coming to Notre Dame on Saturday to see the game. For this to be a success as it has been in the past two years, the full support of the entire student body is needed. 
What to do 

"What do I do if I'm a student and want to help out in someway?" 
Funny you should ask that question. First, you can take your ticket to the second floor of the Athletic and Convocation Center today anytime from 9:00 until4:00. By turning in your ticket you give an underpriveleged child a chance to see Notre Dame beat Missouri. A receipt for the ticket is given to you so you can retrieve your ticket next week. 
Drivers are needed 

The second way you can help is this. To get the kids to Notre Dame we're going to need a lot of drivers. If you have a car, why not help us out for about an hour before and after the game by signing up to drive the kids to and from Notre Dame. 
Monitoring 

Finally, once the kids are here, someone is going to have to watch them and this is the third way that you can help. You'd be doing the whole project a great favor by looking after three or four of the children before, during, and after the game until they leave. A very short meeting for all those interested in monitoring the children will be held at 7:00 tonight in the second floor lobby of LaFortune Student Center. 
Also, St. Mary's students will be able to turn in their tickets and sign up for monitoring during their dinner hours today. A stand will be set-up in the entrance to LeMans Hall to handle the exchange. 
Let A Child Go This project depends on the students and since Nebraska defeated Missouri 62-o last Saturday and since we know that Notre Dame is as good as Nebraska, why not let a child see Notre Dame romp this weekend? 

II111111 II 11111111111111111111111 II 111111111 II lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIImllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllIIIIIIIlllllllllliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
Letters ... 
frosh elections 
Editor: re: frosh elections 
Dear Frosh Officers: 
Congrats on your triumph over the forces that would see a question in the political futures of your holy eminences. Now that you have all undergone what will, in all probability, be your first ND ego trip and your best one since those glorious days of high school politicing, we have one comment to make. What in the hell did we vote for, or rather what were we sup­JJOst>d to vote for? What do our officers do? Sure, you and all the other candidates spouted platitudes about "more Freshman dances" and about the open­minded policies you maintain, but what good does it do? Do you ac­tually expect to accomplish anything? If so, what? 

on letters, elections,& entertainment 
Perhaps it is the fault of the hold? it seems that you got so present student administration in carried away selling yourselves their neglect to inform the general for an office that you neglected student body <or at least the more importantly to sell the office uninformed Frosh masses) of the itself. responsibilities, duties, and Don't let it bother you though; powers of our elected officials, but you're in, so don't sweat; we'll go we can't place all the blame on on as integtated university them. Nor do we blame the Ob-students when you're playing a st>rver; despite the petty private ga'me of miniature politics over at power struggle between its editors the Freshman Year, along with and student government officers those 50 or so people who still go for 
which miraculously finds its way those "Freshamn Sock-Hops." but into public print, it is at least let us ask you these things: are you reporting the news to those few proud of the fact that you were people who are actually interested elected in a campaign with no real in S.G. <the others are realistic, not issue? Are you proud of the fact apathetic l. that you were elected to an office 
We blame you, our elected of-which dozens of others could fill ficials. Yes, we blame you. Did it just as competently. Are you proud ever occur to you during your of the fact that you were elected to adventurous :and extravagant an office whose powers and duties campaigns that rio one reall:• knew , the voters never really knew? 
what you were running for? Sure weknewthe offic's name! But what does it incur? What real and ef­fectuve power do your offices 

II GI?ERT t..ROY, 5/MO!'Ie Oe­86"11{)1/0if?, 0/VC£ SAIIJ THI1T WERE 11R£ TWO Xl/t/05 OF P£0Pt..e; HVM11/V 8£1N65 11ND WOMeN. fiNO P/HeN WOMeN 
5/ART f1CTING /...IKE HUMIJN 13c!N65, 17-ltJ"Y IJ/?£ IJCCU5ED Or TRV/NG 17) !:lc 
HeN ..........._ 
Are you proud of the fact that you were elected in a race which saw a comparatively high but still mediocre turnout of only fifty per 

~:~arry trudeau 
S/MON£3 Oc ye/111... /3fJ'T... 
8EAUVOt!Z'5 
(50T YOU/: NUHP£R, 
eur... 
U/1.... 
.5t..IN. 
I 
I 

cent of the freshmen? Are you, agree with it, then attack its proud of the fact that you are the credibility." This attitude is a poor righteous representatives of the , reflection on the rest of us that 
mere 200 or so iStudents ( at the 
most only fifteen per cent of the 
class) who voted for you. 
If you answer no to any of the above questions, the least you can do is make sure the same thing does not happen next year. sincerely, 
T.J. O'Reilly Stephen Lyons 

McCabe's letter 
Editor: 

I was very disappointed to read Dennis McCabe's letter in Friday's Observer . It was disappointing because it might give people the impression that all of Senator McGovern's supporters are as paranoid as McCabe is. In the letter he seems to be using the old Spiro Agnew logic, "If you don't ..eally believe in what George McGovern wants to do for our country. Although I agreed with much of what Mr. McCabe said about President Nixon, I thought his attack on the YVP and their poll was very unfair. 
I am surprised that he cannot accept the fact that Senator McGovern is not strong on this campus. Most of us knew when we came here that the Notre Dame student body is more conservative than those of other major universities. It is unfortunate but we decided to live with it. So it is 
rather· useless at this stage to complain about a Nixon majority here and even more so to attach the YVP when there is no obvious reason to question the validity of its poll. 
Stephen James 
The Staff 
Nite Editors: Dan Barrett and Beth Hall Headliners: Ken Kampman and Tom Kain controller of the knight: mark j. niederkorn Typists: Jim Flannigan, 6arb Norcross, Tom Modglin, Dennis Anastasoff 
The Last Of The Best Issues 


Tuesday, October 17, 1972 the observer 

ALABAMA ALASKA ARIZONA ARKANSAS CALIFORNIA COLORADO CONNECTICUT DELAWARE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA FLORIDA GEORGIA HAWAII 
IDAHO ILLINOIS INDIANA IOWA KANSAS KENTUCKY LOUISIANA MAINE MARYLAND MASSACHUSETTS MICHIGAN 
MINNESOTA MISSISSIPPI MISSOURI 
MONTANA NEBRASKA 
NEVADA NEW HAMPSHIRE NEW JERSEY NEW MEXICO NEW YORK NORTH CAROLINA NORTH DAKOTA OHIO OKLAHOMA OREGON 
PENNSYLVANIA RHODE ISLAND SOUTH CAROLINA SOUTH DAKOTA TENNESSEE TEXAS UTAH 
VERMONT VIRGINIA WASHINGTON WEST VIRGINIA WISCONSIN WYOMING 

Students for McGovern 

present 
MILHOUS 
Tues.,Oct.l7 7 and 9 p.m. 
In America Flenner Hall admission: $1 .00 
Absentee Registration by Mail Permitted 
Yes-No Yes (if a student, serviceman, or if out of U.S.) Yes. 
Yes. No. Yes. Yes. Yes (if voting for pres. and vice· 
pres. only, or if a serviceman). Yes( voting only tor pres. and vice.pres.) 
Yes. Yes (If servicemaro, or out of the state). Yes. 
Yes. Yes. Yes (if voting for pres. and vice· 
pres. only, if out of the U.S.) Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes (if in U.S. service) Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Yes. Yes (for persons voting only. for pres. and vice.pres.) Yes. 
Yes. Yes. 
Yes (if in U.S. service) Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. No Registration Yes. Yes (if voting for pres. and vice­
pres.) Yes. 
Yes (if in U.S. service) Yes (if in U.S. service or physically disabled) Yes (if voting for pres. and vice­pres. only, or a student) 
Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. 
Yes (if a student, in U.S. service, or absent from the state) Yes (if voting for pres. and vice­pres. only, or if in U.S. service) Yes (if outside of county of residence but within the state Yes. 
Yes. 
Yes. 
Period during which application for absentee ballot must be filed 
Oct. 18-Nov. 2 Oct. 23·Nov. 6 Oct. 8·NOV. 4 No time limit. Oct. 9.0ct. 31 
Aug. 9·Nov. 3 Sept. 23 on. By 12 noon, Nov. 6 By Oct. 24 Sept. 23 to 5 p.m., Nov. 6 After Aug. 9. In state: Sept. 8·Nov. 2. 
Out of state: Sept. 8·0ct. 28. 
Sept. 8·5 p.mJ Nov. 6 In person: Oct. 8-Nov. 2 By mail: Oct. 8·Nov. 4. Sept. 8·Nov. 4 
Sept 28·Nov. 6. By Nov. 2. By Oct. 31. In Person: Oct. 19·0ct. 31 
By Mail: Sept. 8·0ct. 31. No deadline. By Oct. 31. By Nov. 6 Aug. 24·2 p.m., Nov. 4. Sept. 23·Nov. 6. Oct. 8·Nov. 5. In person: Oct. 8·4 p.m. Nov. 6. By mail: Oct. 8 to 4 p.m. Nov. 3. 
Sept. 23·Nov. 6. 
Aug. 9 to the 3rd clear day before the election. 
Before 5 p.m. Oct. 31. 
No deadline. 
In person: by 3 p.m. Nov. 6. 
In writing: by Oct. 31. By Oct. 28. If out of U.S.: by Oct. 10. 
By Oct. 31 
Sept. 23·6 p.m. Nov. (varies lf suddenly ill) From Oct. 8 on. 
Oct. 8·4 p.m., Nov. 2. If out of U.S.: Sept. 8 to 4 p.m. Nov. 2. Oct. 8·5 p.m., .Nov. 3. 
Sept. 8-8 p.m., Nov. 7. 
Sept. 18-0ct. 31 (In emergencies, by Nov. 3, 5 p.m.) Before 5 p.m., Oct. 17. 
By Oct. 31. 
After Oct. 18 
In person: Oct. 18-Nov. 2 BY mail: Sept. 28-0ct. 30. Sept. li:'NQv. 7. 
Oct. 8-Nov. 7. 
By 9 p.m., Nov. 3. 
In person: by Nov. 4. By mail: by Nov. 2. After Sept. 23. 
Sept. 8-Nov. 3. 
In person: Aug. 7-5 p.m., Nov. In writing: Aug 7-5 p.m. Nov. 3. Sept. 28-Nov. 7. 

Time by which voted absentee ballot must be received by elections officiaIs 
Close of polls. In person: Nov. 6 By mail: post-marked bv Nov. 7. 
7 p.m., Nov: 7. Nov. 7. 5 p.m., Nov. 6. 5 p.m., Nov. 7. 6 p.m., Nov. 6. 12 noon, Nov. 6. 8 p.m., Nov. 7. 7 p.m., Nov. 7. Close of polls. By mail: Noon, Nov. 13 
Non-mail: 4:30p.m., Nov. 6.· 5 p.m., Nov. 6. Close of polls. Close of polls. Any time prior to Nov. 7. By 12 noon, Nov. 6. By 3 p.m., Nov. 7. By Nov. 6. 3 p.m., Nov. 7. (Close of polls for pres. ballots) Close of polls. Before close of polls. Before close of polls. By Nov. 7. Before close of polls. By 4 p.m., Nov. 6. By close of polls, if voting for pres. and vice-pres., only. Close of polls. In person: by Nov. 7. By mail: post-marked by 12 
midnight Nov. 6, received by county clerk by 10 a.m., Nov. 9. By election day. 
By close of polls. By 8 p.m., Nov. 6. In person: by 5 p.m., Nov. 2 
By mail: by 7 p.m., Nov. 7. 
By 12 noon, Nov. 6. By 12 noon, Nov. 4th. (Varies if sudden ly ill.) By close of polls, or post-marked by Nov. 5. Close of polls. 
5 p.m., Nov. 3. 8 p.m., Nov. 7. 5 p.m., Nov. 3. 9 p.m., Nov. 7. Close of polls. Close of polls. 10 a.m., Nov. 7. Nov. 3. In person: close of polls. 
By mail: post-marked before noon, Nov. 7. Close of polls. 
Close of polls. In person: by Nov. 7. By mail: post-marked by Nov. 7. 
Close of polls. Close of polls. Nov. 7. 

TRAVEL BUREAU 
"ON CAMPUS"-BADIN HALL 
*Airline Reservations *Complete Domestic and Foreign Services *Representative for all Airlines *No Additional Cost 
"Oriented to Youth Programs" 

FIRST BANK &TRUST TRAVEL 
Phone : 283-7080 

FOOTBALL TICKET EXCHANGE 
Remember to turn in your ticket today 
or tomorrow from 9-4 at the 2nd floor ticket window of the ACC. f\1\onitors meeting tonight at 7:00 
Nebraska beat Missouri 62-0 last 
Saturday. 
Why not let a child see Notre Dame 
beat them t 1is Saturday. 
~---~·..,~.-. 

the observer TuesdayI October 171 1972 


When this 25-year-Oid researcher wanted to investigate a possible cancer treatment, we gave himthe go-ahead. 
We also gave him the right to fail. 
At Kodak, it's not unusual for a 25-year-old like Jim Carroll to win the title of senior research physicist. Like any company involved in a lot of basic research, Kodak has felt the pressure of modem technology and the need for young, fresh thinking. So we hire the best talent we possibly can, and then give them as much responsibility as they can han­dle. Whatever their age. 
We have departments and divisions, like any company. What we don't have are preconceived ideas about how an expert scientist's time should be spent. So when we received a request from the medical community for assistance in ex­perimenting with lasers as a possible cancer treatment, we turned to 25-year-old Jim Carroll, who is deep in laser tech­nology, and gave him the go-ahead. He built two half-billion watt laser systems, one of which Kodak has donated to the National Institute of Health. 


The lasers proved unsuccessful in treating cancer, but we'd make the same decision all over again. We entered laser technology because we have a stake in business. We let a young researcher help the medical community look for a means of cancer treatment because we have a stake in the future of mankind. 
'lb put it another way, we're in business to make a profit. But in furthering our own needs, we have often fur­thered society's. After all, our business depends on our soci­ety. So we care what happens to it. 



Kodak 

More than abusiness. 
Tuesday, October 17, 1972 the observer 
7 

SMC planning proc;ess lS• open to students 
(continued from pg. 2) the Planning Committee will go directly to the President for his action or referral. The report further stated that the Planning Process will be completely open, with all reports being made available tothe con­cerned constituencies. Planning Committee, Area Committee, and Task Force minutes will be made available to all constituencies of the college. To aid in the distribution of in­formation, A Planning Processs will be completely open, with all reports being made available to the concerned To aid in the distribution of in­formation, a Planning Office and Resource Center have been established. The Planning Office is in Room 125 Madeleva Hall. Office hours are 1-5p.m., Monday through Friday. Phone: 4937. The Planning Office will provide notification of meetings, preparation of materials for 
said that large groups can give a single student a number of tickets to turn in. This, he said, makes it easier for students to exchange their ticket. 
Bingle also stressed that the individual student should decide now whether to turn in his ticket and not to wait to see if enough were received. 
"I'm confident that the students will come through this year," he said. "I just wish they wouldn't wait so long to do it." 
On October 21, 1972, students from Notre Dame and St. Mary's College will donate their tickets for the NO Missouri game. We would like to endorse this worthwhile project and ask that as many as possible cooperate so that children from the South Bend area will be able to see the Irish on their way to a national championship in 1972!!!! 
Ara ParseghianGreg Marx (co-captain) John Dampeer (co-captain) 
BEAUTY PAGEANT 
Michiana Snow Show 
Dec 8, 9, 10 A.C.C. 
All women, 18 years old or older, who are residents of In­diana or Michigan, or who are college students in that area are eligible to enter. There will be an initial interview granted to all , applicants, at which time the pageant rules, prizes, and judging will be discussed. Interested applicants should send their name, address, telephone num­ber, and date of birth to: 
MICHIANA PRODUCTIONS& EXHIBITIONS, INC. P.0. BOX 3573 SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 46628 
meetings, correspondence, preparation and distribution of minutes and reports, duplicating service, and information regar­ding availble resource material to the Planning Committee, Area Committees, and Task Forces. 
Under the auspices of the Planning Office will be the Planning Resource Center, which will collect and disseminate in-
Dr. Mary Alice Cannon Dr. Bruno P. Schlesinger
Dr. Rita M. Cassidy Miss Jean H: Seymour
Miss Natalie Dwyer Mr. Louis R. Tondreau 
Mrs. Timothy P. Galvin, Jr. Miss Susan M. Welte 



Budget considerations 
occupy CoiDIIlissioners 
by Lee E. Klosinski 
Observer Staff Reporter 
Budget considerations head the 
agenda for this Thursday's Student 
Government. Board of Com­
missioners meeting, the first 
meeting under the new constitution 
passed last week. · The meeting is scheduled for 
7pm in room 120 of the Hayes-


Kids need 600 tickets lor the Missouri gazne 
Students turned in only seventy-six football football tickets yesterday in the first day of the Missouri ticket exchange program. Almost 700 tickets are needed to make the program a success and allow children from South Bend to see the game this Saturday. 
Program Coordinator B.J. Bingle reported yesterday that many students are apparently unaware of the program. He asked students who worked on the program in !he past t? e:cplain the procedure to freshmen and to encourage them to give up therr tickets for the cause. . 
formation of interest to the 1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 Planning Committtee, Area Dr. William Hickey
PRESIDENT Sister Mary Jean Kiene, C.S.C.
Committees, and Task Forces, and Dr. Edward L. Henry Mr. Jason D. lindower, Jr.
set up a check-out control system Judge Daniel J. McNamarafor materials not available on a PLANNING COMMITTEE 
Mrs. Daniel J. McNamaraquantity basis. Chairperson -Dr. Donald N. M. Mr_,. Oohald Miller
Dr. Horning feels that the whole Horning Miss Kathleen E. Mulaneyplanning procedure is really Vice-Chairperson -Sister M. Basil Mr. H. James Paradisbeginning to unravel and, in his Anthony, C.S.C. 
Dr. Richard C. Pilgerwords, "I believe it will prove to be Secretary -Mr. John J. Hof Dr. Cyriac K. Pullapillyan unprecedented operation." Dr. Mark A. Bambenek 

Sister Katherine Reichert, C.S.C. Dr. Anthony R. Black Sister M. Rosaleen, C.,S.C. 
Healy Building, according to 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
Wanted: tickets to Notre Dame . Texas Christian game. Call 289­
Bingle explained that in the past, halls sponsored smokers durmg the . programs." 
game. He said he hoped the halls would do the same this year. Marget also added that he feels 
1163.

Tickets may be turned in today at the Convocation Center at the seco~d that ''the budget will be passed as floor ticket window. Each student who turns in his ticket gets a receipt it is now." 
Need 3-4 non-student tickets for 
Missouri. Call 1244 Shawn.
that he can exchange for 
his ticket early next week. Bingle 1 Studen't Body Treasurer Mike Marget. 
The report of the Student Government Budget Committee will be the base for thework of the Board,· and organizations that consider Committee recom­mendations inadequate have been invited to appeal to the Board, which has ultimate budgetary 
powers in the new Constitution. 
Student Government Treasurer Mike Marget was questioned about the funding of the New Frontier Scholastic Society and the Society of Ujamma, which have been appropriated $2,500 jointly. 
He replied, "We felt that these 
two organizations should both be funded. However, we felt that separate funding of each program would not be as effective as providing one lump sum for academic and cultural events that will be open to all students. In this way there is no duplication of 
WANTED 
Need two general admission fix for Missouri Game .. Frank 8610. 
Room-mate wanted, call 2~2-4545. 
Need 2 gen. ad TCU fix, call 4719. 
Faculty-NO community. Young girl who works in South Bend and Notre Dame, wishes to rent extra bedroom in your home . Call 283­7401. 
WILL TRADE 2 TCU TICKETS FOR 2 MISSOURI TICKETS 4388. 
Wanted: typing, themes, manuscripts. Call Jane Smith at 233-6909. 
Need 2 G.A. Missouri tix, call 1824. 
How about a couple Missouri tix? 
G.A. call Pat 3610. 
Need 4 general admission tickets
DUKE UNIVERSITY 
for TCU. Need not be together. 
Call John 1605. 

I need a roomate. 2 headed, anything. 233-1329. Private. Gorgeous. Keep trying. 

SCHOOL OF LAW 
A member of the faculty of Duke University 
Desperately need 4 TCU tickets.
School of Law will be on campus on Tuesday, 
Phone 287-6010. 

October 24 to interview prospective applicants. 
NEED ONE MISSOURI GEN.
Please contact the Placement office for an ap­
AD. TICKET. NAME YOUR
pointment 
PRICE. CALL JIM 7858. 
Information may also be obtained from 
Wanted: 4 general admission tix
Associate Dean Frank T. Read, Duke Univer­
·for Miami game. Call 8038. 
sity, School of Law, Durham, North Carolina 
Desperately need two gen. ad­
27706. 

mission tickets to TCU. Call 6701. 
Need ride to Pittsburgh and back w-..ekend of Oct. 20. Will pay. rv,ark Smith 1952. 
Need 3 gen. ad. tickets for Miami, 
call 1487 Hawkeye.


BIRTH DEFECTS 
Need ride to Davenport, Iowa on
Film and discussion on theNation's Oct. 20th, call 1600. 
Riders wanted to Kent, Ohio Friday Oct. 20. Ken 8810. 
number 2 destroyer of life. 
Need ride to Ohio turnpike exit 7,
Tuesday, October 17,· 
on Friday October 20th. Will share expenses. Call Neal, 1740. 
Desperately need ride to Wash.
7:00pm LaFortune Rm-1 c 
D.C. area Oct. 19 or 20. Please call 5336.
National Foundation--March of Dimes 

FOR SALE 
FRIDAY 
Carpet 11' X J2' for sale. Light
OCT. 20th brown $20. Call 233-4654 after 5 pm. 
8:00P.M. 
The Concert Sound Of 
68 Cougar XR7; V-8 397 engine, air, automatic, power steering, disc. brakes, snow tires on rims $1350. Call 234-0610 after 5 &





HENRY MANCINI 
weekends. 

Chevy Impala, 66, extremely good condition. One family car. Call Holy Cross House. 283-6337. 
New Westinghouse Compact Refrigerators. Spacious 4.4 cu. It. capacity, factory warranty, immediate delivery. Call now! WYNNE'S REFRIGERATION CO. 234-0578 or 232-2618. Ask for Tom. 
Cl LA Christmas Cards now on sale. Support our summer projects. For more info call Mike at 1509. 
Misc. for sale: kitchen set {table & 4 chairs) 35" X 47" $28.00, 2 end 
Tickets on sale at:

Ticket Prices: 
tables & coffee table $27.00, 120 lb.
NOTRE DAME A. C. C. 

wt. set $17.00, mens golf shoes size 
Bleachers __ . _...• _•$3.00 
8 like new $5.00, davenport &
Box Office 9to 5M111.-Sat

Lower Arena _• _ • _ ••• $5.50 
matching chair $85.00, size 15"
Robertson's-South Bend &Elkhart 

goodyear surbunite snow tires
Loge 
St. Joe Bali 11d braoches 

like new $50.00. {$140 value new) 
call 291-4063.

Main Floor 
•• _• _ •__ •$6.50 First Bali-main office 111~ 

Elkhart Truth
Platforms 
For sale 1971 Suzuki 500 with 2 helmets -$600 or best offer. Call Tom 232-0659. 
1963 MGB. Tape player, new tires. Call Stephen M. Buente 232­2849. 
NOTICES 
Does your club or organization need cheap transportation in the Michiana area?? Ride the "Blue Beasty." Call Crew Club, 6309 or 8825. "We have no limits." 
Morrissey Loan Fund. Borrow up to $150. LaFortune Basement. Open 11:15-12:15 Monday thru Friday. 
HELP the helpless unborn, with time, money, or both. Right-to Life, Inc. 233-4295. 
St. Mary's Study Tour, England, Ireland, Scotland, Wales, Dec. 27­Jan. 16, 2 Histor-y credits available, open to St. Mary's and Notre Dame students. For details contact Professor Black {4948) or {272-3726. 
Piano lessons: Call Eddie Sears 232-6882; $5 per hour; $3 per half hour. 
Europe over Christmas Fly with the best · Fly BOAC. Incredibly inexpensive! British Overseas Airways. Call Clark, 283-8810, for details. 
PANDORA'S BIRTHDAY. BUY & SAVE. MANDALA 4.95 · 3.43, LIVING ON THE EARTH 3.95 · 2.69, ANY WOMAN CAN! · 1.95-1.32, DAY OF JACKAL 1.75-1.23, FISCHER­SPASSKY 1.95.. 1.32, ROLLING STONES BIOG. 6.95 . 4.57, TASSAJARA BREAD BOOD2.95. 2.20, KNOTS 1.45-.98, ART OF SENSUAL MASSAGE 3.95-2.69, THE PEARL 1.95 1.32, MCGOVERN 1.95 · 1.32 and more. 
PERSONALS 
Dan, 
You'll always be number one with us. Your fans and the other ducks 
Patty of S.I.D.; Don't ELOPE this weekend. Signed: The Boys 
Linda and Mamie, thanx for the tickets. 
LOST AND FOI.'ND 
Lost leather wallet. Around Madeleva or Shuttle bus. ID's needed. Tim 7850. 
Lost: ring in Nieuwland Sci. Hall, if found please call 1619. 
FOR RENT 
Rooms· Nice home, close to town · for football weekends. $6.00 per person. 232-2989 after 6 pm. 
Words 1da 2da 3da 4da 5da 1-10 .65 .95 1.15 1.35 1.55 11-15 1.00 1.50 1.85 2.10 2.40 16-20 1.30 1.95 2.15 2.55 2.95 21·25 1.70 2.55 3.20 3.85 4.45 26-30 2.10 3.15 3.95 4.75 5.45 31-35 2.45 3.65 4.45 4.75 6.15 36-40 2.80 4.20 5.25 6.75 7.75 41-45 3.15 4.70 5.90 7.10 8.20 46-50 3.55 5.20 6.50 7.80 8.95 
Deadline for all classified ads is 
1:00  pm  the  day  before  
publication.  All  ads must  be  
placed in person.  


... 
• 
.. 
8 
the observer Tuesday, October 17, 1972 


Morrissey nips resurgent Farley 
By Stan Urankar them." Cavanaugh 16, Lyons 12
Interhall football action brought The return of quarterback Greg scoring excitement Sunday af­Corgan boosted his club to theirternoon, as six of the seven games first win of the season.

were decided by a touchdown or The sophomore from Wyckoff,less. Morrissey fought back to N.J. clicked on three of six passestake a League Two tussle with for 91 yards and a pair of touch­
Farley, and Cavanaugh's come­from-behind win over Lyons downs. 
A 43-yard bomb to Kevin Ford,highlighted the day's play. 
followed by Corgan's conversion Morissey 1-1, Farley 8 
run, gave Cavanaugh a s-o lead, but Bill Barrett's two-yard plunge The Marauders faced as stern a 
cut the margin to two points at the seasonal test as they've seen in half. 
Alow snap on a punt put Lyons inthree years. Cornerback Ed the lead early in the final stanza,Posluszny started the Morrissey as Robbie Hoertz pounced on thescoring by intercepting a Carl loose ball in the end zone to make it 
Oberzut aerial deep in Farley territory. Six plays later, tailback 12-6. But Corgan brought his club 
back, and with seven minutes toPaul Breen hulled home from the one, and added the conversion go, hit tight end Jim Mahoney on a 35-yard scoring play for the vic­
himself. Oberzut led Farley back to a tie tory. Sporting a 1-1 mark, Cavanaugh with the first half coming to a close. The sophomore passing star is the next on the list of potential Morissey spoilers, with game time connected with Harry Bigham on a 30-yard pass play for the score, 
slated for 2 PM next Sunday. with fullback Rich Aselage racing 
Keenan 6, Graceo The winners remained in a tie for in for the tying points. 
first place in the League Three
The big play came in the third quarter. Freshman Tim Puntirelli race with this win that wasn't as 
close as the score sounds. George halfback, and rolled right after spot, setting up a face off game 
entered the Morissey lineup as a Keenan in the League Three top
Faherty bolted home from the one taking a pitchout from Kirk Miller. to cap a 65-yard, third quarter next Sunday.
drive. Grace's only strong threat
Just short of the line, Puntirelli Sorin 16, Pangborn-Fisher 6 
stopped and unloaded a 23-yarder was halted when soph tackle Robin The only rout of the day saw Doc Graf jarred the ball loose from a
that John Hargraves pulled in for Carberry's squad roll to their first 
High Riser r~ning back, and
the winning score. win. Junior halfback Denny
freshman AI Sondej recovered.
"AI Calabrese, our cornerback, O'Brien wasted no time in putting
Stanford 6, Flanner 0
was all over him on the play," Sorin on the scoreboard, as he
The winners' passing combo of
commented Farley AD Bill bolted 60 yards to a touchdown OJ\ Powers. "The receiver just made George Packer-to-Mike Pohlman the second play from scrimmage.
put the points on the board again as
a super catch." QB Mike Boland snuck hom~.
Flanner fell to their third straight
"It was really a discouraging from the two in the third period';
loss. The aerial duo clicked from
loss," he added. "All we can do with Bill Eble and Brian McMahin 
30 yards to even Stanford with
now is hope Cavanaugh beats tallying the conversions. ltF 
Ruggers down Kentucky, 28-10 
pushed over the ball in a loose the Irish were beginning to feel the The Notre Dame rugby team serum. ND increased its lead effects of playing shorthanded forregained its winning form this past when Herb Giorgio broke away most of the second half, because 1weekend with a 28-10 over the Smigo had earlier been ejected for 
from the Kentucky backs and
University of Kentucky. 
fighting.

raced for a try, giving the Irish an s-o halftime lead. The final score could have beenThe visitors were 5-Q when they worse but Dave Simpson ran out of arrived at ND and were confident Giorgio and Fishburne scored the end zone before touching the
of a victory over the lightly again in the second half on fine ball to the ground, and thusregarded Irish, but they left the runs and Ed O'Connell suc­nullified his score. The winfield a decisively beaten team. cessfully converted after each try boosted Notre Dame's rugbyThey were overpowered by a fine to give the Irish a 20-o lead. Tom record to 7-2.
effort by the Irish serum and by Masenga and Jim Carr also scored 
some good tackling and running by second half trys for ND to turn the The Notre Dame "B" teamthe Irish backs. game into a rout. 
remained undefeated as they trounced the Kentucky "B's" 29-3.

The Kentucky club didn't giveThe Irish opened the scoring Terry Kadyszewski scored two
up, however, and scored two trys
midway through the first half when trys to lead the Irish while Mike
in the last minutes of the game to
Ed Fishburne ran four yards for a Regan, Pete Frantz, and Sean
avoid a shutout. By then, though. 
try after the Irish serum had McDonald also added scores. John 
Mcintyre added nine points on 
thr:ee conversions and one penalty

NO harriers place eighth 
kick. The B-team's record is a perfect 5-Q. 


in weekend Invitational 
The Irish will take on the by John Wick Evansville Rugby Club this
Ball State, always a strong
Notre Dame hosted over two weekend behind Stepan Center.
contender, also fielded a tough
hundred and seventy runners from team. They were led by Stevethirty colleges and universities at Wynden, who finished second tothe 17th Annual Notre Dame Cross Slack. The Cardinals finishedCountry Invitational held on the third in the meet.
golf course Friday afternoon. Despite the loss of Olympian 
Notre Dame harriers finished aDaveWottlelast year's invitational respectable eighth with teamwinner, Central Collegiate captain Dan Dunne taking 19thChampion Bowling Green cap­place in a very good time of 24:21.
tured their third consecutive in­Other top finishers for the Irishvitational victory. Individual were Jeff Eichner, Marty Hill,honors went to Mike Slack of North Mike Gahagan and Tom Callahan.
Dakota State. Slack, the NCAA Collegiate Division Cross Country
• Notre Dame' track and cross
Champion in '71, led the field over country coach Alex Wilson wasthe entire five mile course and honored during the halftime period finished in the excellent time of of Saturday's Notre Dame vs
23:44: 1. This broke the previous Pittsburgh football game. In meet rocord of 23:49 set in 1969 by appreciation for Coach Wilson'sJohn Liebenberg of Western "work, dedication and inspiration" Michigan University. North an Invitational Plaque wasDakota finished 6th overall in their inaugurated. This plaque will·first invitational appearance. 
remain on the Notre Dame cam­Michigan representatives in­pus, and team and individualcluded Central, Eastern, Western, champions will be inscribed an­and Michigan University. Western nually on this tribute to the founder Michigan, with five invitational
·. of the Notre Dame Invitational.
victories to tis name, was an­ticipating its sixth win. Instead, 
The top finishers in Friday'sEastern Michigan runners put on a meet were Bowling Green (81),very strong drive and, aided by the Eastern Michigan (112), Ball State 
fourth place finish of teammate (115), Southern Illinois (15S),Gordon Minty, captured the ~jchigan (220), North Dakota 
number two spot-along with 
State (295), illinois State (295), and 
Michigan honors. 
Notre Dame (303). 
... 






OBSERVER 
SPORTS 
Empty seats snag SC trip 
Notre Dame's cheerleaders have Tim Conway and Andy Williams, 
encountered difficulties while hotel accomodations, tran­
arranging the 1972 student trip to sportation to and from the Los 
this season's Southern Cal game. Angeles Coliseum, a side-trip to According to Charlie Morrison, Disneyland, and a post-game who is coordinating the planning party. for the trip, 24 seats remain vacant Without the package offered by on the charter flight to Los Angeles the cheerleaders, the round trip and they must be filled by October flight to Los Angeles alone would 25th or the entire trip will have to cost $260. be called off. For those wishing to sign up for The package offered by the the trip, full payment will be 
cheerleaders includes, for $195, air requested by October 25th, and 
t to and from Los anyone seeking further infor­mation is asked to contact Charlie Morrison at 3122. 
NO wrestlers open practice 

Notre Dame's wrestling team opened practice for its 1972 season yesterday, and Coach Terry Mather greeted approximately 40 try-outs-including six promising freshmen and three returning lettermen. 
Led by acting co-captains Mike Kemp and Mike Martin, ND's '72 grapplers will be tested by a rugged schedule which includes national powers Wayne State and MacMurray College. 
Martin and AI Rocek, both juniors, and sophomore Mike Fanning will bolster this year's squad, and four scholarship fresh­men will be an ·added plus. 
This year's home schedule: Valparaiso--11-29 Wayne State--12-S St. Francis-1-26 Marquette--1-27 Wheaton--1-30 MacMurray-2-9 Drake--2-10 W. Michigan-2-20 
avoided being blanked when./nill Donahue hit Pete Burkd-<vith a 60-yard scoring bomb in ttlelast quarter. 
Alumni 7, Off-Campu.J 0 
Junior Rich Soeder starrld in his club's initial victory. A nine play, 67-yard second quart~t drive ended on pass plays of H and 25 yards from Jose Alonzo1to Soeder, the latter going for fhe score. Overall, Soeder caugnt four passes for 53 yards. 
0-C made it interesting with a first and goal at Alumni's four in the final stanza, but defensive end Randy Schultz ended that threat by sacking quarterback Chuch Voelker for a nine-yard loss on third down. 
St. Joseph 6, Zahm 2 

Tony Kaufmann's run with less than four minutes to go gave St. Joe their first triumph. The vic­tors then chose to relinquish a safety late in the game as QB Tim Hagen downed the ball in the end zone, preventing a Zahm chance at a blocked punt and possible TD 




