
----------~----­
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
On The Inside 
Fridge fines ... page 2 
Viewpoint: Ministry ' ... pages 

l ~ 
1 serving the notre dome -st. mary's community
Vol. VI, No. 112 Tuesday, April 18, 1972 
1 
1
Rogers defends U. S. action 
by Bernard Gwertzman 
(c) 1972 New York Times The American note, according to an official, said Rogers had planned to testify before the Committee, that although the U.S. had made an effort to avoid headed by Sen, Fulbright, Democrat of Arkansas, on
Washington, April17-Secretary of State William P. 
hitting "third-country ships.. those supplying war behalf of the Foreign Aid Biill, well before the present Rogers today forcefully defended the weekend bom­material to North Vietnam for its "invasion" of South bombing began. Secretary of Defense Melvin R. Lairdbing of Haiphong and Hanoi and warned that the ad­Vietnam had to run the risk of sharing the respon­goes before the Committee tomorrow.
ministration would continue to take "whatever sibility for Hanoi's actions. But the note reportedly The White House indicated today that they wouldmilitary action is necessary" to stop what he concluded with an assertion that the U.S. wanted to speak for the Administration, and this, in turn, led torepeatedly called Hanoi's "massive invasion" of South 
avoid damaging international shipping. more than usual interest in the hearings.
Vietnam. 
The reply fell short of apologizing to the Russians, or
Testifying before the Senate Foreign relations promising not to launch any more air attacks. no extra U.S. troops
Committee, Rogers gave the first official government explanation of the raids over the North Vietnamese Although the bombing of Haiphong and Hanoi have Rogers said that the Administration had ruled out heartland. His remarks were often aggressive in tone clearly created doubts about the success of Nixon's eigher the use of nuclear weapons or the Re­
scheduled trip to Moscow next month, the ad­introduction of American ground forces into South 
1 to mount a show, not only of military, but also of ministration continued to go ahead with plans for the Vietnam. But every other military option, he said, was rhetorical force to counter both the North Vietnamese trip. left open to defeat what he called at one point, "naked 
A White House advance party of 25 specialists left for aggression of the most flagrant type." 
and seemed to reflect a Nixon Administration decision 
offensive and domestic criticism here. 
j
Moscow today to make technical arrangements for the Alluding to the announced restraint of the JohnsonNixon silent President's trip and Soviet-American talks on Lend­Administration, which publicly promised it would not 
President Nixon again remained silent publicly, but Lease debts began as scheduled at the State attack certain targets in North Vietnam, Cambodia at a luncheon on Capitol Hill, he reportedly told a Department. and Laos, Rogers said "we're not going to make any Congressman -in alluding to the weekend raids -that And the White House announced the Nixon would announcements about what we're going to do. We "you have to let them have it when they jump on you." stop in Warsaw on his way home from the Soviet Union think that there's been altogether too much of that in 
Rogers told the Committee flatly that the U.S. would and Iran. this war." not engage in any negotiations with the Communist Asked by Fulbright, a frequent critic of the war, to side "while this major invasion is under way." trip in doubt? justify the intensified bombing raids of North Vietnam, 
In Paris today the North Vietnamese said they would But Rogers, when asked about the effect of the Rogers said that the raids had three goals. be willing to resume talks, if the bombing of their bombing raids on the Nixon trip to Moscow, indicated The first, he said, was to protect the 85,000 American country stopped. that he had some doubts whether the visit would ac­troops still in South Vietnam; the second to make 
In another development, the state department said tually occur. He said that at the moment plans were certain the withdrawal program can continue from the American Embassy in Moscow had replied to going ahead, and there ·.vas "no evidence" that the trip South Vietnam; and third, "to give the South Viet­vesterday's Soviet protest notes which contended nat would not take place, but he refused to make any namese a chance to defend themselves against the the Haiphong bombing damaged four Soviet ships. predictions. massive invasion by the North Vietnamese." 
Schneid appoints commission heads 
by Joseph Abell "We also want to find a new idea for Homecoming to Managing Editor get the students' interest back," Prochaska added. "In addition to John," he went on, "I've also got Rich 
Recently-named Student Union Director Jim Donovan taking care of major concerts and Jim Schneid announced his appointments to commission Rybarczyk as sort of coordinator of all social events. heads yesterday. I'm really looking forward to working with them." 
The appointees to the Commission were Jim Novic, Academic Commissioner; Roche Schulfer, Cultural 
optimism for CAC
Arts Commissioner; Joe Prochaska, Social Com­missioner; and Walt Szwarc, Student Srrvices Com­Roche Schulfer also expressed his hopes for themissioner. 
Cultural Arts Commission. Since the CAC has had such "The decisions were close one." Schneid com­a firm foundation of organization and activities to work mented. "Some of the people -who applied had with, he ~oul? like to ~pend most of his time "gettingtremendous ideas. but were lacking exoerience." 
the orgamzabon runmng more effieiently." 
wants more participation "We also want to slow up on the popular films and bring in_ mo~e performing arts," he said. "Our biggest emphasis Will be on the Performing Arts Series and
. However, Sehneid stated that he made it a point to Cinema '73."
invite th commissioner hopefuls to work on the com­missions. "They didn't do that last year and we lost a He elaborated by explaining that all other CAC 
lot of potential workers," he said. events would still be held, but events such as the Blues other appointees were Mary Ann Gillespie, and Festival, whose reputation has not built up as well as others, would be cut down to a smaller scope. 
Chris Mecca, .. Assistant Directors, Gregg Vesonder, Executive Coordinator, Torn Laughlin, _. Controller, "We ~lso want to get away from concert-like things, 
and David Burch, Associate Director. such as the Tom Rush and Duke Ellington shows and Sehneid. who sees his job being a coordinator also get more into things like classical soloists,"' He said. described his plans for the coming year: "We'll just He did note that the Fund Rasising Films Series 
oversee the commssions; mainly taking care of petty would continue to help support other events, such as bureaucratic problems, so the commissioners can the Sophomore Literary Festival, but they would be promoted with tpe Sophomore Literary Festival
worry about the basic function of their commissions." 
mentioned as sponsor.
"We have the utmost confidence in our new com­
missioners.". he added. "We're doing this so that the students know just where the money from these films is going," he commented.
fiv·e new events? 
He said that the PAS will have five events, including the National Players in October and Marcel Marceau New Social Commissioner Joe Prochaske has many in February.
ideas and projects in mind for next year. Creating a new department within the commisision, he has placed John Voll in charge of Special Projects. 
"John has many ideas that we'll be considering next year. the main emphasis being on crazy events," Proehaska said. "Things have been so dead around 
Buffalo Five trail 
here; we need something to liven up the social at­mosphere. We hope to have something going on at least every other week, if not more often." 
Suggestions given for events next year included: 

to begin soon
--a "polka party" with a band similar to that at Kubiak's, held in LaFortune ballroom. --a kickoff party, during which the dining halls would serve hot dogs and lemonade on the quad. --a "muscle beach party" along the shore of St. Joe's Lake. ­
... see page 4 
--a Get-Together Dance every other week scheduled in different places to "break up the m~notony of always having it in the same place." 
--a swimming party in the Rockne Center during the winter. 





the observer Tuesday, April 18, 1972
2 

world briefs 
(c) 1972 New York Times 

Washington --The Senate Foreign Relations Committee approved an amendment to an appropriations bill that would cut off funds for all American hostilities in Indochina at the end of 1972 contingent upon the release of American prisoners by North Vietnam. Following an emergency meeting, student antiwar leaders called for a nationwide campus strike the is Friday to protest the renewed bombing. 
Bt>lfast--A gun battle between Irish Republican army terrorists and British soldiers ranged in Belfast from noon to dusk while at the same time demonstrators took to the streets in the worst rioting in months. Two terrorists were believed killed during the gunfight. 
Houston-Apollo 16 coasted toward the moon after making a brief course correction. The astronauts were assured by mission control in Houston that flaking paint on the moon landing craft should not interfere with their planned landing on Thursday. 
Washington--A Wall Street consultant who had been hired by the Justice Department to analyze the financial consequences of antitrust actions against International Telephone and Telegraph told the Senate Judiciary Committee that the department had overstated his findings when they used it as a principal factor in the decision to drop the suits. 
Dt•troit-The Ford Motor Company recalled 396,000 1972 Ford Torinos and Mercury Montegos--the entire production run of the two models--in order to correct a defect in the bearings in the rear axle and wheel assemblies of the cars. 
on campus today 
3:00 -film, operation barbarosa, audio­visual theatre, cce. 
3:30 · readings, charles newman, soph lit festival, library auditorium. 
4: 15 -metting nd-smc students protesting bombing of north vietnam, fiesta lounge. 
6:30-meeting, mock convention platform committee, room 265, old chemistry building. 
6:30-readings, william H. gass, soph lit festival, library auditorium. 
7:30 -lecture, gov. george c. wallace, morris civic auditorium. 
8:00-lecture, ernest eliel, the information pollution: can we clean it up? monogram room, ace. 
8:00-lectur ·,william molen, medicine for the future, cce. 
8:00 -concert, jethro tull, ace. 
8:30 -lecture, charles mccarthy, par­ticipatory democracy, lafortue ball room. 
10:30 -meeting, black students for wallace, flanner card room. 
at notre dame-st. mary's 
-----------------------1 r-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
Cat: how it improves people tor us when we began to love them. 
·---------.. --------~

IA TT!~i'ON­
GRADUA­TING STUDENTS 
MEASUREMENTS 

f will be taken I r for 
r 
r ,r 
I COLLE,. 
,r 

, GIATE
,
, 

~ CAPS 
and 


GOWNS 
Wednesday, April 19 
Thursday, 
April 20 
between 9:00 -4:00 
at the 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 



If you count on your car for lots of good times, why not give it the best care you can? One way is using Standard gasolines. 
Standard's Lead-Free Amoc~®· the new car gasoline, not only helps cut down on air pollution, but tests prove it can double the life of your muffler and tail pipe compared to fully leaded gasolines. Makes your spark plugs last longer, too. 

It's a fact-more drivers in the Mid­west care for their cars with Standard gasolines than any other brand. And they keep coming back. Isn't that the truest test of quality? 
You've got a lot of money in your car. And you count on it for lots of good times. So take good care of it ... with Standard. 
You expect more from Standard and you get it.™ 
@Standard Oil Division American Oil Company 


Tuesday, April 18, 1972 the observe~r 
3 




Appliance ban revised 
by Bob Cosentino 
Large refrigerators, air-conditioners, and other high wattage appliances will probably be banned from all dorm rooms next year, according to Brother Kiernan Ryan, vice-president of business affairs. 
The Hall President's Council will meet Wednesday night to discuss and finalize all matters of fines and bans of electrical appliances in the rooms. 
All indications are however, that refrigerators over 4.6 rubic feet 
Charles Newman 3: 30--Library Auditorium William H. Gass 6: 30--Library Auditorium 


why 
pay 

more 
?
• 
fine 
J)Oint 
12colors 
The whole idea behind the new Scripta 19eer was to make a Iober tip that will do everything the leading 49c 
fiber tip can do. Write as well, last as long. come in as many colors. and cost a whole lot less ... 19e each 
Notre Dame 
Bookstore 


Fr. Chambers: faultyfridgesa fire hazard.
·will be banned from the rooms. 
-It was earlier suggested that refrigerators over three cubic feet be disallowed. But student discontent forced an enlargement of the maximum size of the boxes. "All TV's will be permitted without a fine," according to Brother Ryan. However rotisseries and hot plates will probably be banned along with air 
Saturday, April 22, SB Armory, 9 to 1 

-----------------------·--------------------------~~~-~~~~~~~~~~~====================--, 
Anyone seeking the following positions with The Social Commission, please apply at the Social Commission Office or call Joe Prochaska, 7757 
1. 
Assistant Commissioner 

2. 
Special Proiects 

3. 
Homecoming 

4. 
Mardi Gras 

5. 
Business Manager 

6. 
Tickets 

7. 
Promotions 


conditioners and old refrigerators. 
"Our main concern is to get rid of all the old boxes that students buy " remarked Brother Ryan."Th~ 'klunkers' are electrical hazards. 
"Often the wiring and insulation in the really old ones are faulty. There's a health hazard involved in them. Sometimes the food in them is not properly refigerated. They . also bring cockroached to infest the rooms, increasing problems." 
Father Thomas Chambers, director of students residence also pointed out the fire hazard in­
volved in having faulty refrigerators in the dorms, especially old dorms like Sorin and St. Ed's. "There is a tremendous overload of current during 11-12 o'clock at night " he said. "That's when the boxe~ are being used the most." Consequently, many of the halls required electrical rewiring. To 

yearly student assessment. Abowd reportedly sells Grit to finance his college education. 
pay for the extra current being ~~~~~=;::::~:::~~~~~~~~~~~~:::~~
used, the University issued a $15 r-

fine on all refrigerators. Father I
I 



w I l·ue
Chambers indicated that the fines would not be increased next year. 
An Tostal Irish Wake Advance ticket Sales only!Limited Ticket Supply $3.00 per couple only Free bus service from ND Circle Tickets on sale tonight, Wed. & Thurs. in Dining Halls and the Huddle at Noon 2 bands unlimited refreshments 
(It will NOT be a SO's party) 
Anthony Abowd, local paperboy, was chosen first "King for a day" yestdrday, according to an offical communique from the Prime Mover's office. 
During his five-minute reign, Abowd took advantage of all the privileges extended to him as winner of the contest. Wearing the crown, Abowd made his "important decision" from the Prime Mover's chair. that a special fee for Grit magazine be added to the 
I d I
5 u en 5 



abreak. 
Send for your Student Identification Card and get a
1
·-----------------I I 
big break on rates at 75 Hilton Hotels and Inns coast I to coast. (Grad students and faculty, too.) Just mail 
I

1 this coupon to Hilton Hotels Corp., Travel Dept. 
I

National Sales Div.. 9880 Wilshire Blvd .. Beverly Hills. 
I 
Calif. 90210. Then come visit the Hiltons. X I 
I 
I 

I 
I

Name'----------------------------­
I 
I

Address________________________
I 
I 

I City_____________State_____~ip__ I I 
College Class of 19__ I 

:HILTOn HOTELs: 
I • • • • • ... • • • • --------~ I 
1 
1 
l 




4 

the observer Tuesday, April 1_8, 1972 
Jury picked lor Buffalo Five trail 
by C'liff Wintrode Special to the Observer 
Buffalo---Jury selection was finished in one day Monday as the trial of the "Buffalo Five" opened here in Federal Court. 
The trial will resume Wednesday when the government and each of the defendants, acting as his own counsel, will deliver opening statements to the jury. 
The defendants are Maureen C. Considine, 21, Charles Lee Darst, 22, Jeremiah D. Harrigan, 21, James R. Martin, 24, and "::'"Ann Marie Masters, 26, all of Buffalo. 
They were indicted last Sep­tember 30 in Rochester, New York, by a federal Grand Jury on charges of conspiracy, theft of government records, and intent to commit burglary. The charges result from their arrest last August 21 inside the Buffalo Federal Building which houses the selec­tive Service· Office and an area Office of Army Intelligence. 

Considine and Darst are for­mer students at St. Mary's College and Tne University of Notre Dame. 
They plan to marry Saturday. 
The jury is composed of seven men and five women. The only black on the jury is a woman. , two jurors are under 40 and no juror is under 30. 
The defendants are acting as their own attorneys with the assistance of Vincent E. Doyle, a Buffalo lawyer, as their Co-Counsel. 
The defendants have publicly admitted attempting to steal and destroy draft files, but they con­tend that his was not a criminal action but a response to American crimes in Indo-China and elsewhere abroad and at home. 
The defendants are expected to constantly tell the court that they were acting according to their consciences and that a person may break the law to stop what he perceives to be crimes against humanity. 
Federal Judge John T. Curtin asked all the questions during jury selection, although he had asked for a list of desired questions form the defendants. 
These questions from the defendants asked in different ways if the perspective juror believed he has a right to protest government policy and whether the juror would decide the case according. to his own conscience. 
Curtin asked several questions concerning the jurors' beliefs on current United States policy in Indo-China, on the advisability of the draft, and whether there is ever a need for the government to "lie" to the people. 
One question submitted by the defendants which the judge did not as of the jurors was "do you believe in the commandment 'Thou shalt not kill?'" 
Curtin also twice told the jury that the government must prove 
ARVN still controls Anloc 
by Malcolm W. Browne (c)1972 New York Times 
Saigon, Tuesday. April 18-­Anloc, besieged by a powerful North Vietnamese force for the last two weeks, was reported Monday to be still in the control of the South Vietnamese. but Route 13, the only road by which the town can be relieved remained in a North Vietnamese vice that seemed to be tightening. 
Wedged in the vice was the South Vietnamese 21st Division, which was sent from its base in the Mekong Hiver Delta 160 miles to the Southwest, to break through the enemy ring to around Anloc. 
The division not only has failed to do this. but has been undergoing increasingly heavy harassment along its flanks and at its rear. The town of Laikhe. through which the division passed a week ago on its 

I 
way to the relief of Anloc, is now r itself increasingly threatened byr strong enemy forces. r A number of skirmishes were r reported in various parts of South r Vietnam Monday, but no major r battles apparently were being 
fought. Among the more important 

~ 
actions: --South Vietnamese troops r reportedly fought some bloody 
engagements with strong Com­munist forces across the border in Southern Cambodia. the South Vietnamese claimed to have killed 109 North Vietnamese troops while losing 24 killed and 51 wounded of their own. --Firebase Bastogne, where 500 South Vietnamese remain besieged by strong enemy forces about 19 miles southwest of Hue, was said to be still holding out. Fresh troops and some supplies finally reached the hard pressed 

post Monday. --In the northernmost provinces of the country. Saigon troops were reported to have begun a cautious campaign to retake some of the territory seized by the invading North Vietnamese armv at the beginning of the month.· 
A South Vietnamese spokesman said that 36 enemv soldiers were killed in a six-hour battle three miles south of Dongha Sunday. and nine others in two fresh clashes near the town Monday. Three South Vietnamese troops were reported killed. --In the Central Highlands, where very large enemy forces have been massing in the past few weeks, the situation continued to look ominous. but there was still little action. Clashes and shelling were reported near the highlands towns of Kontum and Pleiku. --In the Central coastal province of Rinhdinh, South Vietnamese spokesman claim their forces killed 220 enemy soldiers Sunday after the latter attacked the rear base of an infantry regiment 60 miles north of Quinhon. Saigon said its losses were 27 killed and 23 wounded. --In the Mekong River Delta, which had been considered largely pacified until the present offensive began. Communist gunners maintained their harassing at­tacks on outposts and roads, some within a few miles of Saigon. 
The grinding battle along Route 
t:l between Saigon and Anloc seemed to represent the biggest military gamble by the ground forces of both sides at the moment. 
North Vietnamese forces in the area were believed to include about three divisions with sup­porting tanks and artillery. South Vietnamese forces included the 

BEST BANDS IN TOWN -Two Bands a night -Dancing 6 nights a week (closed Monday.) -No cover on Tues., Wed., Thurs. -Open till 2 a.m. "One stop entertainment center" 


Cocktail Lounge Bowling Billiards 
S~u/a 's ~te C/u~ 
2802 SOUTH I I th ROAD NILES, MICHIGAN 49120 
6161683-4350 
fifth and 21st infantry divisions and the first Airborne Birgade. 
No progress has been r!!ported in dearing Houte 13 of enemy forces despite many heavy airstrikes by South Vietnamese and U.S. planes. 
At the same time the North \'ietnamese have tailed to take the town of Anloc. although they have occupied parts of it at times. 
the criminal intent of the defen­dants, apparently allowing the jury to acquit the defendants if it finds that the five did not act with criminal intent. 
None of the five stood when Curtin entered or left the cour­troom. They had previously communicated to him that stan­ding would compromise their beliefs by showing unequal respect for a person because of his job. 
Curtin told the coutroom that the defendants' had convinced him that standing would compromise them but that this is not to be taken as a precedent in other cour­trooms. However, despite several pleas by the defense, Curtin said that spectators must stand or face dismissal from the courtroom for the duration of the trial. 
Curtin told the defense before the 
day's proceedings began that he was denying their request that the government subpoena 21 defense witnesses. The defendants failed to show cause why these people are instrumental to their case, said Curtin in his brief, written decision. 
Co-Counsel Doyle said he would meet with Curtin before Wednesday morning to discuss what Curtin requires for the subpoenas to be issued. 
If convicted on all counts, each defendant could receive a maximum of five years in prison and a $12,000 fine. 
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
STAFF: 
Nite Editor: Jack Frischkorn 

Ass'f Nife Editor: Art Esposito 
layout: Joe Abell Headliner: Marty Miller 

Day Editor: Redman Sports Nite Editor: Vic Dorr Controller of the Night: rick smith Typists: Dianne Chermside, Dan Rock, Jill Hampe, Barb Norcross, Dennis Anastastoff, Pat Kenney. 
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
-~/-DID YOU KNOW THAT ST. FRANCIS IS ALIVE I AND WELL... 

I 
And working for Christian Unity? We are\ 
members of a young, American, Franciscan\ 
·Community which is a bit different: our life work is the reunion of separated Christians. How 1 about spending a weekend with us in searching · for vocation thru prayer and Christian Fellowship? Both men and women are invited. April 21 -23. 
For details call: Peter Canauan, S.A. 7735 
Arthur Gouthro, S.A. 8814 
--------------~ 
THE ARTHUR J. SCHMITT 
Challene;es in Science Meetings of the College of Science 
THE COLLEGE OF SCIENCE AND ITS STUDENT SCIENCE COUNCL present 
WILLIAM William A. Nolen, M. D. 
Fellow, American College of Surgeons Author of 'The Making of a Surgeon' speaking on 
MEDICINE FOR THE FUTURE 
TUESDAY, APRIL 18, 1972 8:00P.M. 
Center for Continuing Education University of Notre Dame 
Wanted: Applicants for Student Union Services Commission 
Qualifications: Good worker, enthusiastic, mirthful 
Pay: Starts at a million dollars with rapid advancement. 
Apply at Student Union Office (7·757) or call Walt at 234 5566 

~­
5

Tuesday, April 18, 1972 the observer 


Viewpoint--ministry 
A Passion for the Possible 
causes, involving themselves in projectsWilliam T0 0 e y, . . . which deal very immediately with their
h C S C 
The following is an excerpt from Fr. William Toohey's new book, A Passion for the Possible. 
Fr. Toohey became the director of campus ministry in September of this year. His latest book follows two others: i{ebuilding Faith and Free at Last. 
All the books are available in paperback in the bookstore. 
A Passion for the Possible by William Toohey, C.S.C. lan excerpO 

This past year has been a year filled with strange happenings. It has been a year during which the youth of America, at least. have been strangely quiet. There has been no shortage of men willing to diagnose the reason for the guiet, some calling it simply a surface quiet with a below-the-surface seething. Others say that with the end of the Vietnam war an imminent reality, and with jobs becoming so hard to secure, students are simply reverting to type, becoming "straight" again. conforming to conventionalit:( in order to fit into the affluent Amencan society. Others claim that there is simp!?' a great malaise and sickness of frustratw.n and despair affecting the youth of this country, and perhaps those not so young. 
Kenneth Keniston has called this the 
"agony of the counter culture," and 
suggests that their silence is a silence. of 
disaffection. Youth are ashamed to realize 
how wrong and naive they were; but most 
of all, and perhaps he is correct in this, ~e 
assesses the agony as the result of their 
own confrontation with violence. He sees 
the past year as a year of recoil from 
violence: most students have no personal 
experience of physical violence; but 
realizing during this past year that some 
fringes of the counter culture became 
embroiled in violence, many youths began 
to recoil, recognizing that they were liable 
to become involved in precisely the very 
thing against which they were dissenting, 
a violent America. 
They also saw what could happen to 
young men infected with the belief that an 
enemy must be looked at as somehow 
different from yourself, and in that way, 
easier to dispose of. We are living in an era 
of My Lai, when we talk about ~he 
"wasting" of civilians, a time dunng 
which we comment upon a massacre by 
saying it was "no big deal." We are also 
living in a time of Altamont, and perhaps 
we are beginning to see Altamont as a 
shattering symbol of our present state. We 
have come a long way from Woodstock to 
Altamont. 
"Children of Woodstock" 
In the rolling hills east of San Francisco 

Bay, at the rock festival with the fam?us 
acid-rock group from England, the Rolling 
Stones. we see an orgasm of violence and 
death. In the documentary film of the 
festival, "Gimme Shelter," the cameras 
panned the audience for Woodstock-type 
happiness, but instead of flowers and fun 
they discovered Hitchcock horror.. As 
James W. Arnold writes, "It was a time 
when the children of Woodstock grew up 
and came face to face with our ancient 
malevolence, the curse of the Lord of the 
Flies." As the film reveals, in front of 
three hundred thougsand people a man if; 
bludgeoned to death by a demonic gang of 
Hell's Angels, while Mick Jagger, the 
leader of the Rolling Stones, helplessly and 
frantically stands by, pleading over the 
microphone, "Let's keep it all together." 
The inmates have taken over the asylum. 
On the other hand, during this past year 
there had been a pattern of quite 
dissimilar events, through which there 
may run a significant common thread. 
There remain large numbers of students 
and young people concerned for human 
fellow men. The thousands who continued to work for peace and indeed, to fast for peace, are an example of this. At the University of Notre Dame, hundreds of students gave up all luxuries (purchase of clothing, records, alcoholic beverages, cigarettes; attendance at movies, con­certs, etc. l for a period of a month, donating all the money saved to the refugees of Vietnam. And thousands of young people and quite a few adults walked for hunger all over this country during the month of May, donating the thousands of dollars gained by this march for the cause of the problem of hunger in America. The common thread which may very well run through these events and others like them could be the need people feel to be associated with the oppressed. There are a number of reasons why this 
could be true. 
Affluence and Resources 

Take the example of the oppression of poverty. More and more people in America are beginning to realize that poverty is not a matter of superhuman forces or of human laziness, but a result of human cruelty. As Arthur C. McGill writes: "This means that affluent people can no longer attribute their success either to their own hard work -and feel pleased with themselves, or to the goodness of God or fate -and feel pleased with the world. Affluent people -whether their affluence is financial and comes from their earnings, or is spiritual and comes from their religious communities, or is cultural and comes from their national heritage -af­fluent people do in fact profit from some measure of exploitation and injustice, even if the world is so arranged that they never become aware of this fact and never have to see the people whom they im­poverish." 
As McGill reminds us with shattering 
clarity, the natural resources of America 
are ours. not so much because God has 
given them to us, but because our 
forefathers systematically maimed and 
slaughtered the native Indian. We are also 
beginning to feel uncomfortable about the 
pride we have had in the worldwide suc­
cess of our business corporations, when we 
realize that the economic plight of the 
South American countries, to take one 
example. is frequently caused by the 
United States' expropriation of their 
resources. Even something like our in­
terstate highway system, we discover, is a 
manifestation of a decision that the thirty 
billion dollars spent on the system be used 
to benefit, not the poor, but the propertied 
A Passion for the Possible William Toohey C.S.C. Ave Maria Press Notre Dame, Indiana 1972 
people who own cars. As a result, McGill points out: "Every affluent American family or corporation or university or church, regardless of whether the fact is acknowledged or not, holds that wealth it has. not simply because of hard work or useful service or divine favor. but because consents to and profits from a social order that system a tic ally neglects the poor." 
Oppt·t>ssion-''the bond of brotherhood" 
Secondly. people are beginning to realize that it is not enough to be merely sym­bolically associated with the oppressed; that is to say, we are no longer permitted to induge in the liberal luxury of simply working within the oppressive system toward ending real oppression. Rather, it is necessary for us to know that we our­selves are oppressed because those others who are oppressed are truly our brothers and sisters. We are, in fact, then. already associated with the oppressed because of the bond of brotherhood we realize with all men. all of whom are members of the family of man. having one same father who is God. To be Christian, therefore, is to know oneself oppressed as long as Fr. William Toohey, C.S.C.. director of campus ministry puts in another-full day at his office in the librar). · 


anyone is oppressed. 
Not so long ago, William F. Buckley, Jr. was asked whether or not he would be more impatient with the present ad­ministration's Indo-China policy if it were a couple of million Americans who had suffered death and injury and homelessness. He responded, that, of course, he would. In this answer there is reflected the basic sickness of many contemporary men, an effort to make a radical distinction between Americans and others, as though those others were not related to us in a profound sense, as significant as our blood relationships. 
Theology and Proximity 
For the Christian it goes much further than this, and so there is another reason for our need to acknowledge the fact that we are associated with the oppressed. As we have already mentioned, love or hate of man has theological implications, since whatever we do to any other man or woman is done to the Lord. Consequently, to turn away from the actual association we already have with the oppressed is not only to turn away from one who is my brother or sister, having the same Father I do. but is, in fact, to turn away from God. As a result, there are shattering con­sequences to actions like the following: recently a co-ed ran from the room where a discussion was going on about the op­pressed of the world, blocking her ears and screaming that she simply would not tolerate any more talk about all those people. all over the world, who had no connection with or meaning for her whatsoever. 
It is very hard to appreciate the fact that 
we are already associated with the op­
pressed when they are. indeed, so far away 
from us. But they aren't as far away as we 
may think. There are many oppressed in 
our own neighborhood, city, county, 
countrY. And the thousands of students and 
others· \l"ho have in fact associated 
themselves with the oppressed are 
discovering this for themselves, as they 
become involved with the retarded, the 
poor. mental patients. prisoners, all the 
forgotten, lonely people of their own 
neighborhood. They make the discovery, 
not of something new. but of a reality that 
has always been true -they are finding 
men and women who are their brothers 
and sisters and discovering that they need 
to go out to them. to touch them with love. 
But this is really the question, isn't it? 
Does love stand a chance? We are 
surroundPo with so many causes for 
pessimism that one really begins to wonder. Pessimism follows from statistics, from the brutal facts of life that we see around us. We see, for instance, in our country a grotesque reversal of priorities. We have branded a man like Daniel Berrigan a criminal. because he dropped napalm on paper. while at the same time many are acclaimed as heroes who have dropped napalm on children. There are 200,000 orphans out of a population in Vietnam of 13 million. There are 500,000 homeless. We've had over 53,000 Americans, over 123,000 South Vietnamese, more than 703,000 NLF and North Vietnamese killed. $67 out of every $100 collected in taxes are spent on war, and only $1.84 on community development and housing. And in one of the most in­credible statistics of all time, we discover that we spend $950 per second on this war. These statistics, and there are many, many others, force us to be pessimistic. 
To be Pessimistic and Hopeful 
But there is another side to the picture. I am becoming more and more convinced not only that it is possible but indeed ab­solutely necessary for us to be simulataneously pessimistic and hopeful. One does not cancel out the other. Statistics lead us to pessimism, but man does not live by statistics alone. There is more than the tangible, measurable facts we see around us. There is a spirit alive in this land. There is a spirit alive and love has a chance because the God who is love, now risen and glorious, remains in our midst. As he tried to tell us over and over again, he is "Emmanuel" -God with us. He promised that he would remain with us even to the end of time. So love is here because he is here, trying to continue his own ministry of concern and compassion through us, in our loveless world. 
Consequently, in the midst of the 
pessimism that we are led to by the 
statistics mounting all around us, we are 
also led to hope; not only permitted to hope 
but impelled to hope, to have a passion for 
the possible. As a contemporary banner, 
declares, "Don't leave town -there's still 
hope.'' 
So this is not time for despair or in­
creased cynicism. If anything, we need to 
renew idealism, to become more com­
passionate and tolerant than ever. The 
times call for a movement of affirmation. 
to declare that love does stand a chance, to 
develop a passion for the possible. Does 
love stand a chance? If it doesn't, neither 
do we. 


6 the observer Tuesday, Apri I 18, 1972 CiTCUS m QXimUS llllllllliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
Humphrey and Muskie duel for the center 
nmmnmrmmmmrmllllllllllllmllllllllllllllllllltlllllllnnnlllllllllllllllllllltlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllfllllllllllllllllrrlrrlulllllrlllllllllllllllllllllrrlmlllllllrllllllllllmurrrrrrurrrrrurrrJuJulllmmmmlnnununuurrunlllrlrrllllll Ed Ellis 
The Pennsylvania Primary next Tuesday will determine the leader of the Democratic center. It brings former frontrunner and Vice-Presidential nominee Edmund Muskie into a direct battle with 1968 Presidential nominee Hubert Humphrey. 
If Humphrey wins, and it seems likely at this point, Muskie will be a political corpse and Humphrey will look very much like the Democratic nominee in November. Should Muskie win, we will have as they say "a brand new ballgame," with no one out in front, but Humphrey forced more and more to rely on his old political allies in the non-primary states. 
Let us examine, briefly, the strategies of the former running-mates and how they came to be face to face at this critical point in the 1972 campaign. 
Muskie was the frontrunner for nearly two years. However, he was clearly uneasy in that role. His financial status was always shaky. His opposition was determined. And, most important of all, neither the left wing nor the party pros were convinced that Muskie was their man. 
The Maine Senator relied on an im­pressive stack of endorsements from Democratic Senators and he even received the backing of a few liberal governors and mayors. Unfortunately, those whose backinJtle recieved were not main cogs in party machinery. Birch Bayh is not. Adlai Stevenson is not. John T Tunnev is not. Adlai Stevenson is not. PennsylvaniaGovernor Milton Shapp is a party rebel. 
In point of fact, only those endorsements are meaningful which mean money and campaign workers. None of Muskie's endorsements, with the exception of that of 
~ 
Philadelphia City Chairman Peter Carnie!, have meant that. Even Camiel's value is limited, though for other reasons. 
Muskie's strategy was to open strong, enter and win all the early primaries, and ride a bandwagon full of money and party regulars to victory in Miami. This was necessary primarily because of his weak financial position. The ultra-liberal money was with McGovern or one of the fringe candidates. Labor was in Humphrey's column. Big business was and is Republican. Muskie needed a few im­pressive victories early to get it rolling. The need for money made any other course of action unfeasible. 
The first warning for Muskie came in Florida in the form of Alabama Governor George Wallace. In Muskie's strategy, he could not afford to lose early. In Florida, he not only lost, he ran fourth. 
.. Somewhere between Florida and Wisconsin, Muskie apparently hit the panic button. According to reports, his stage presentation was sloppy, his PR worse. He looked tired and tempermental. 
His fourth place finish in Wisconsin hurt badly, especially when we realize that both Humphrey and Wallace beat him in both Florida and Wisconsin. Muskie then changed strategies to concentrate on four or five major primaries between now and the convention. The first of these is Pennsylvania, and if he loses there, he can forget the other four. 
Hubert Humphrey's campaign differs very liffle from his former running-mate's in ideology. He has concentrated more, however, on his natural constituency -the party pros in the non-primary states. When he talked o confidently at last Thursday's South Bend press conference of "many delegates tucked away in the non-primary states," he wasn't kidding. 

Humphrey also has ample labor sup­port, especially valuabe in Pennsylvaia, where 1.5 million union members are counted among the 4.7 million voters. 
Humphrey is an energetic campaigner, a compulsive hand shaker, and a very personable guy. Muskie is not, and he underscored that fact last. week in Pitt­!;burgh when he scorned the political handshake as "passe." 
Scheduling for the next two weeks is favorable to Humphrey. In Pennsylvania his chance of winning a majority of the delegates is rated "good to excellent. Massachusetts will see McGovern and Muskie duel with Humphrey healthy no matter who wins. 
May 2 finds Humphrey against Wallace in Indiana. Humphrey should win, though not by much. Also on tap for May 2 is the Ohio primary, with Humphrey leading right now against Muskie and a variety of others. 
Three victories in two weeks would give a terrific boost to the former Vice­President's drive. It may create a Humphrey bandwagon and give him the nomination on the first ballot. In any case, it would leave the middle of the party to Humphrey, and it would mark him as the definitive frontrunner for the Miami convention. 

SMC chicks picked 
SMC student government last night officially released the names of newly-appointed students to judicial and community relations board positions. 
Sophomore Patti Kampsen from Shawnee Mission, Kansas, was selected new chairman for the SMC judicial board. In addition to returning member Jan Natale, four new members were chosen: Lauri Bracken, sophomore; Mary Kay Conay, sophomore; Kathy Dunleavy, freshman; and Marianne Rinella, freshman. Margaret Ferguson and Sandy Swartz, both freshmen, will assume alternate positions on the judicial board. 
Eileen Dugan was chosen as one of the two students on the com­munity relations board. This tri­partite board was established to arbitrate "any student-faculty, student-administration, and faculty-administration dispute which is appealed through the proper channels." 
Last spring the SMC Board of Trustees failed to pass this section of the judicial system. However, it will be brought before the Board in May .for approval. Nominations are open to fill the second position. 
Nominations have also been re­opened to fill the one student position on the appellate board. 
The appellate board is esseritial for the effective operation of the judicial system. 
' I Thuy: peace talks can be resumed I J 
! t 
Hy Henry Giniger (c)l!l7:! New York Times 

I 
~ PARIS, APRIL 17--North I Vietnam offered possible new I secret peace talks today in ex­I change for an agreement by the I United States to halt its air attacks I on North Vietnam and to resume ~ the regular weekly sessions of the ~ Paris conference. I Xuan Thuy, Hanoi's chief I negotiator here, told a news I conference that Leduc Tho, who I engaged in secret talks last year I with Henry Kissinger, President I Nixon's security adviser, would 
return to Paris if the United States agreed to the two conditions. 
Thuy made no formal link bet­ween the presence of Tho, a member of North Vietnam's Politburo and an "adviser" to the delegation here. and resumption of lhP secret meetings which were broken off last October. But when he was asked whether such talks could resume if the American bombing stopped and the American Delegation returned to the conference room on the Avenue Kleber, he answered, "That is correct." 

Thuy also emphasized the point in a negative way. 
"If the Paris conference on Vietnam does not resume its work and on the other hand if the United States does not stop its escalation of the war and destruction against the Democratic Republic of Vietnam. then there is no basis for private meetings," he said. 
There was no immediate reaction from the U.S. delegation which. on instructions from President Nixon, suspended the semi-public Thursday sessions March 23 for grounds that the ('Ommunist side was using them merely for propaganda purposes and would not engage in give-and­take negotiations. 
Since then, the North Viet­namese have launched a military offensive against the South and have made repeated demands that the Paris Conference continue "as usual," the United States and South Vietnam have answered, the chief U.S. negotiator William J. Porter did last Thursday, that "meeting at gunpoint would not be acceptable." 
However, Porter revealed last Thursday that Nixon had proposed secretly on April 2 that the meetings resume April 13. There had been, according to North Vietnam, a flurry of' secret messages between the two sides via "a private channel" in an ef­fort to get the stalled talks started 
again. Nixon's proposal for April 13 was accepted but was with­. drawn four davs later, Hanoi said. 
The removal of South Vietnam's President Nguyen Van Thieu and the withdrawal by an agreed date of all U.S. military forces and equipment have been the two major communist demands in both the public and private sessions. The furthest the United States and Saigon have gone to satisfy them is to offer a six-month timetable for withdrawal followed by elections in the South, with Thieu resigning one month before election day. The Communists refused elections under the present Saigon Govern­ment and have called for a coalition of Communist and non­Communist elements that would stage the elections. 
"One of the Year's Ten Best!" 
Next MONTESSORI 
Teacher Training Program 
W. Chicago Ave., Chicago, Ill. 60622 


Comprehensive studies show 

that our authorized 3-System 
Engine Check (carburetion, ig­nition and emission control). plus adjustments as needed, can reduce individual vehicle pollution by an average of 25 percent. Do your part to save America's air (and up to $21 a year on fuel costs too!) 
BRING YOUR CAR IN FOR AClEANER AIR ENGINE CHECK TODAY. 
It takes onlu 15 minutes 

7

Tuesday, _April 18, 1972 the observer 
Netmen win one on weekend trip 

by Eric Kinkopf ciannati 5-4, and thumped by In the match with the Bearcats, 
"It wasn't a case of not trying, Southern Illinois 9-0 before Mike Reilly and Rob ScheCter were but rather I think the boys were a salvaging the trip with an 8-1 win the only Irish netters to record little over-confident. Now they over Indiana State. singles victories, Reilly defeating realize we're vulneralbe." "It was a real disappointment Van Denover 6-3,2-6,7-5 and 
So said tennis coach Tom Fallon losing to C•incinnati," Fallon said. Schefter dropping Jeff Bates 6-3, 4­after the Irish netters returned "We played the doubles matches 6, 6-o. from a disappointing weekend visit first because of the weather and Doubles victories were recorded to Terre Haute and the Tri-State took two out of the three. We by the Brosn-Allare duo, defeating Tourney last Friday and Saturday. should have won all three. Our Peckscamp-Cambel 7-6, 7-5 and 
The ND netmen dropped two of singles play wasn't up to par, we Reilly-Carrico, dripping Foley­three matches on the Indiana State couldn't put it. together, and we let Cambell 6-1, 7-5. campus, being upset by Cin-the win sneak by." The doubles match the Irish 
"should have had" was a loss by
Jim Donaldson ::==========-=~=============:::::::=:=:=:=:::::::::=:::=:========================================= 
Brandon Walsh and Chris Kane to Bob Helmers and-Jeff Bates 6-7, 6­4, 6-4.
The Irish Eye 
While the Cincy match was a squeaker, the Irish never had a ;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::;:;:;:;:::;:;:;:;:;:::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::~:::::::::::::::: Baseball rln·cks chance against Southern Illinois. The major league players got the season underway over the weekend 
"S.I. was just better than us 
with one strike against them and normalcy has been restored to the 
right down the line," Fallon said. 
American sports scene, for the time being, at least. 
"There was no way we should have 
With the 1972 rounders campaign already three days old The Observer beaten them." 
is long overdue in printing its annual predictions for the coming year. 
In the'nine-zip whitewashing at 
Last year's selections 'saw the Irish Eye tab the Pirates, Dodgers, 
the hands of the Salukis only John 
Orioles and Twins for success. The Bucs and Birds came through in fine 
Carrico's cingles match and the 
style and the Dodgers were edged for the NL West crown by the Giants, 
Brown-Allare doubles match went 
but the Twins were never a serious threat. 
the maximum three sets. 
This season's prognostications once again see the Pirates, Dodgers and 
Carrico bowed at the number six 
O's picked for division titles, along with the incumbent AL West kings, the singles spot 5-7, 6-3, 6-2, and Oakland A's. Now all we have to do is sit back and wait for the clubs to Brown-Allare hung on for three play 162 games to find out how things turn out. Or is it 156 games~ In sets before losing 3-6, 6-3, 7-6. some cases, it's 157 games, in others 159, and a few teams play ---who The Irish rebounded with a cares how many games, at least they're playing. 
strong performance SaturdayAmerican League East-afternoon, getting back on the 
Baltimore Orioles---The Birds from Baltimore will once again roost 
winning track with at 8-1 secision 
atop the AL East. Frank Robinson is now nesting in Los Angeles but over Indy State. 
young stars Bobby Grieb, Don Baylor and Rorie Harrison, who all burst Against State, all but captainout of their shells with outstanding years at Rochester in '71, have joined and number one singles playerthe flock. The wings of 20-game winners Dave McNally, Pat Dobson, 
Buster Brown recorded victories. 
Mike Cuellar and Jim Palmer are healthy and, if they do happen to falter, Brown was stopped by Rogerthe bats of Brrooks Robinson, Boog Powell, Merv Tettenmund, and others Converse in straight sets, 6-3, 6-3 should provide a hasty remedy. The O's can fly above the rest of the before Fallon's squad shifted into league. high gear.
Detroit Tigers---The Tigers have a fine ball club and will maul most 
John Allare defeated Dan Bigg 6­
of the clubs in the circuit. But not the Orioles. Detroit boasts two fine 
2,6-4, Mike Reilly dropped Max
pitchers in iron-man Mickey Lolich and Joe Coleman, good defense and 
Pokorny 7-5,2-6,6-2 and Brandon
plenty of power hitters. They will give their loyal fans lots of good 
Walsh copped the number four
baseball but no pennant. 
singles duel by defeating Mike
Boston Red Sox---You won't be able to tell the players without a Kuhjeld 6-3, 6-7, 6-3. John Allare teamed with Buster Brown for a pair of doubles victoriesprogram this season at Fenway Park. The Sox did lots of wheeling and during the tennis team's long weekend.
dealing in the off season but aren't noticeably better off. Boston Rob Schefter waster no time in presumably has a new look, sacrificing its traditional power for pitching, disposing of Chris Palmer 6-3, 6-3 loss Cincinnati
''The to "It was just a tough weekend for 
defense and speed. "If" everything goes right, Boston will be a con­and John Carrico wrapped up the especially was an indicator a us," the Irish tennis coach con­
or
tender. But that's a very big "if" and the Sox will probably end up third. singles action with a 6-2, 3-6, 6-4 warning to us," Fallon said. "It eluded. New York Yankees---The Yanks have good pitching, Bobby Murcer, victory over Gary Smith. 
showed us that we have to get in The weeking results left the Irish Ralph Houk and a host of young ballplayers going for them and that's and work on every match. We with a 5-3 spring slate.
enough to finish fourth in the East. 
The Irish swept the doubles have about four or five other The raqueteers will be back in
Cleveland Indians---At least the Tribe won't wind up in the cellar. as Brown-Allare, matches yet this year in the Cin-Thursday in
action Reilly­action afternoonMilwaukee Brewers---The Brewers had best drown their sorrows in Carrico and Schefter-Kane all cinnatti category, ones that can go Toledo taking on the Toledo U.
beer. They'll be in a new division but the same old place in the standings. 
recorded match points. either way." netters.
American League West Oakland Athletics---Dick Williams isn't singing the (Vida) Blues, even though his A's will be without the AL's Cy Young award winner in '71. 
ND 
heads for Valpo
Oakland still has plenty of good hurlers in Ken Holtzman and Denny McLain, obtained in the off-season, Blue Moon Odom, Jim Hunter and 
easily repeat as Mid-American good pitching, they can hit the long Rollie Fingers. The A's are solid at bat and afield and should finish on top by Stan Urankar champs, but Wren seems very ball and are a well-coached club. 
of the weakest division in baseball. Kansas City Royals---The Royals are talented but still too young to Notre Dame will look to get back leery of Miami," Kline added. Personally, I think we'd !better stop 
wear the crown. to the .500 mark this afternoon as "OU has a lot of depth and real playing Mid-American teams." Chicago White Sox--The Chisox have added punch to their attack with they hit the road for a single game the addition of Dick (formerly Richie) Allen to complement Bill Melton, at Valparaiso. The Irish, sporting 

Stickmen split in O.hio
Carlos May Rick Reichardt and Jay Johnstone and the pitching staff, a 6-7 mark on the season, will try to under the t~telage of Johnny Sain, appears strong. They could give the snap a three-game losing streak. 
by Andy Scantlebury Van Bourgondien added his sixth Royals a battle for second. 
Rick Eich, the hard throwing goal at the 8: 11 mark and Tarnow Minnesota Twins---The Twins keep getting older and older but they're 
junior lefthander from Little Falls, The Notre Dame Lacrosse team closed the scoring a minute later. 
not so feeble that they can't finish ahead of California and Texas. 
Minn. will get the nod against the had its four-game win streak "Our mistakes were costly",
California Angels---The brand of ball the Angels will play this year will Crusaders this afternoon. snapped this weekend with 9-7 Coach Rich O'Leary commented
Eich (2-a 
be far from heavenly. Only the Rangers are keeping California out of the loss to Ohio State on Saturday. The afterwards, "and Ohio State took
0) has a 5.62 ERA in 16 inningscellar. pitched this season, but also owns stickmen started a new streak in advantage of every situation. But 
Texas Rangers---This team would have trouble winning the In­the highlight of the campaign with high fashion on Sunday, however, we didn't give the game away. We 
ternational League pennant. If the real Rangers were as inept as this a one-hit, 6-0 shutout of Christian as they crushed Ashland College were outplayed and they deserved crew, Texas would be the most crime-ridden state in the Union. 14-0. to win."
Brothers College.

National League East Ohio State wasted little time Sunday was a different story as 
Pittsburgh Pirates---The Bucs' pitching is again suspect, but that Either Ed Hrabcsak or Mike talking advantage of Notre Dame the Stickmen C()lmpletelypowerful array of hitters should keep the division title in the Steel Town. Riddell could also see action on the mistakes, as they scored six first destroyed Ashland College 14-o. 
Chicago Cubs---Even with the addition of Burt Hooten, the Cubbies will mound today, though ND will still half goals and completely The field conditions were terrible,find some way to avoid finishing on top. be without the capable services of dominated the action attackman with both creases entirely under St. Louis Cardinals---The Cards placed second a year ago but it's shortstop Pete Schmidt. Skip Van Bourgondien demon­water. This didn't stop the Irish,
doubtful if they can stay ahead of the Cubs. strated why he's an All-American however.
Schmidt jammed his ankle in
New York Mets---The magic of the pennant winn!_ng year is gone and by scoring the first five Buckeye "The more experienced team
breaking up a double play at
the Mets will have to settle for fourth. goals. takes advantage of a sloppy field," 
second base in the 9-6 home loss to
Philadelphia Phillies---The Phils "kiddie korps" may give the City of First quarter efforts by Co­O'Leary siad," but scoring 14 goals
Northwestern last Tuesday, and
Brotherly Love's renowned "boo-birds" something to cheer about, but captain Gary Riopko and under such conditions has to rate
was forced to remain at home on
not very much. Freshman Steve Tarnow as a great effort."
crutches, rather than make the
Montreal Expos--The Expos front office bid bon voyage to Le Grand made it close for a moment , but Junior Dave Jurusik opened and 
three-day trip to Athens.
Orange <Rusty Staub l and might just as well say au revoir to any hopes of the first half was all Ohio St. closed the first quarter scoring,
finishing better than sixth. "The loss of Pete greatly af­The Irish settled down to work in and Riopko and Joe Anderson National League West fected the play of the team last the second half and almost pulled it tallied in between for a 4 goal lead. Los Angeles Dodgers--Walt Alston's crew missed the pennant by a weekend," Irish coach Jake Kline out. Two third quarter goals by The Irish continued their attack in 
game last season. With the addition of Frank Robinson and the return of sadly stated. "He had played senior Ed Hoban closed the gap to the second quarter with Jim Billy Grabarkewitz to complement their fine mound staff, the Dodgers, every game all shortstop, and is 6-4. but the Buckeyes tallied at the Courtney and Tarnow picking upwill be on top this October. always talking and encouraging close of the quarter to take a 3 goal markers. 
San Francisco Giants-The Giants will likely return to their familiar everyaone. We certainly hope lead into the final stanza. The third quarter featured the runner-up position. he'll be ready for Miami of Ohio Early in the fourth quarter, Ohio big offensive explosion with six
Houston Astros--Strong pitching and the addition of Lee May and this weekend." State showed signs of pulling Irish goals. Bob Cullen opened fire Tommy Helms will bring the Astros home third. OU coach Bob Wren seems very away. but the persistent Irish 
with his second goal of the year at 
Atlanta Braves--If the Braves could only swipe a couple of the Astros' aware of a Redskin uprising in this stayed close. After a Buckeye goal I :01. From then it was Holan, Jim hurlers, they could be contenders. As things stand now, Atlanta will 
year's MAC race, and the Irish will at 1: 13 Notre Dame's Rich Mullin Bingle <his first of the year), John 
probably losea lot ofWah scorina &ames andfinish fourth. have to be on their toes when the tallied at 6:03. Several minutes Corcoran, B. J. Bingle and the Cincinnati Reds-No pitching here, either. The Big Red Machine Indians of Oxford invade Cartier later. Tarnow scored, but the goal veteran Paul Reagan. The Stick­broke down tast year and repairs are far from being completed. Field this weekend for a two day, was disallowed when an Irish 
men added two in the fourth 
San Diego Padres-The Padres are doomed to spend a year in the three game series. attackman was found in the quarter, with Tarnow and Jim catacombs as penance for dealing Dave Roberts to Houston. "I think they <Ohio UJ should crease. Leply getting the honors. 


r----------------------------­
8 

the observer Tuesday, April 18, 1972 

Diane Wakoski reads her poetry 
by Tom Drape 

The Soph. Literary Festival continued yesterday with Diane Wakoski reading poetry before a capacity crowd at the Library Auditorium. 
The poet read selections from her most recent book, The Motorcycle Betrayal Poems and also recitals which she describes as "chants or refrains." 
The topics of these free form verses ranged from "My Legs" to "Dancing on the Grave of a Son of a Bitch." 
Arguing that her poetry is written to be read aloud, she went on to explain that most of her poems deal with her experiences "as a woman in a masculine culture." 
Ms. Wakoski also said that the actions and topics of her poems are all things that she personally would or would not do. "I don't fe~ that someone should partake in something unless they are prepared to do it wholeheartedly." 
Her appearance was blemished with the arrival of three, white­powdered face, protestors carrying placards denouncing the step up in the bombing of No.rth Vietnam. The incident disturbed the audience little which reacted warmly to Wakoski's presentation. 
Diane Wakoski 

FRESHMAN PREREGISTRATION PROGRAM WEDNESDAY, APRIL 19, 1972 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
AT 7:00P.M. 

ARTS AND LETTERS INTENTS 
FOR SALE
Washington Hall 

r-
1970 TRIMUPH GT6 +, Dark Blue, Superb condition, must see to believe. AM-FM radio, Pirrelli
BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION INTENTS 
Radials, stebro exhaust, new 
transmission, $2,400. Call John
Hayes-Healy Center, Room 122 
232-4135. 
(A through L at 7:00P.M., M through z at 8:00P.M.) 
For Sale: Wollensal monaural 
AEROSPACE ARCHITECTURE CHEMICAL CIVIL ELECTRICAL 

ENGINEERING SCIENCE Engineering Bldg., Room 307 
miles. Call 1166. 
MECHANICAL Engineering Bldg., Room 302 METALLURGICAL Engineering Bldg., Room 5 
SAVE ON RECORDING TAPE! 
Cassette, Reel, and 8-trac k; 
Ampex, BASF, Memorex, Sony, 
or TDK. Call Don: 3729. 
SCIENCE INTENTS 
tape recorder, 2 speakers, ac­
cessories, $50. Also, Gibson 
Classic guitar-$70. 272-6527 after 6 
p.m.
ENGINEERING INTENTS 
Latest S-track tapes $4.00 and $5.00. Phone 283-1064.
Engineering Bldg., Room 303 
Architecture Bldg., Room 201 Radiation Lab., Auditorium 
For Sale: 1 ND ring. Size 10'12. 
Best offer. Ed 1812.
Engineering Bldg., Room 205 
Engineering Bldg., Room 212 
1971 Honda CB100. only ridden 800 
BIOLOGY CHEMISTRY GEOLOGY MATHEMATICS PHYSICS PREPROFESSIONAL 

INFORMATION 
FOR RENT 
Galvin Life Science Center, Room 238 
Kitchens & Rooms . $45 per
Nieuwland Science Hall, Room 123 
month. Girls only. Also free rent
Geology Bldg., Room 101 

for summer for painting the
Computer-Mathematics Bldg., Room 226 
house. 233-1329. 
Nieuwland Science Hall, Room 118 
For Rent: 4 room apt. childless
Nieuwland Science Hall, Room 127 
married student prefered. Phone 289-1264. 
PERSONALS
WILL BE GIVEN ON AD­

VANCE REGISTRATION PROCEDURES AND 
To the Observer staff, Thanks for 
the posies.
ON THE SOPHOMORE YEAR AND ITS 
Love,
RELATIONSHIP TO THE DEGREE 
Mama Ceil
PROGRAM. 
Weenes, 

l 
Karate belt advancement tests April 22, I hope you're ready. 
Mike 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost: Glasses with green tor­tioseshell frames. Call 3713. 
FOUND: Track medal, 440 XDS, Identify. 6783. 
LOST: Benrus Watch, silver­colored. Will be Rewarded. Call 6725. 
Lost: Parker fountain pen on SMC Campus. REWARD . 5237. 
Lost: 1 brown imitation leather 
iacket, lambs wool lining. Ed 
1812. 
NOTICES 
Parts and Accessories lor lm­ported cars. Foreign Car Parts 
Co. 215 Dixieway North (Roseland) 272-7187. 
50 gallons tree gas with 4 tire

JETHROTULL 
purchase; 25 free gallons gas with 2 tire purchase. Ask about our rustproofing and shock absorber specials. Ron's Standard, 1409 
Portage Ave. 255-0520.
TONIGHT 
8 PM at the ACC 
Grow Abroad This Summer... a month of carefree travel on your own in Europe... plus four weeks of study in art, music, photography,
Some good seats still available at 
drama or French. Growth through experience and instruction... isn't that what it's all about? $695 from 
New York. Call Joe McDonough, campus representative American International Academy. Phone 234-3465. 
the ACC Ticket Office from 9-5 
( $5.50, 4.50, 2.75) 
Baseball Freaks: Knights of Columbus sponsoring EX­CURSION to Reds Cubs game April 29. Price $8 tor members or girls, $10 for non-members. In­cludes Box Seat ducats. Food & Beverage on Chartered Bus. If interested call Bob Cunningham (1876 or K of C. (7018). 
Mary Ann 234-3250 Experienced Typist Will negotiate on rates. 
GOOD BOOKS SALE: BURY MY HEART AT WOUNDED KNEE $1.95 now $1.37; SEPARATE REALITY-2.95 now 1.95; WAY OF ALL THE EARTH (DUNNE) 2.95 now 1.95; KNOTS (LAING) 1.45 now .99; KAMA SUTRA 1.25 now .88; MASSAGE BOOK 3.95 now 2.90; JANIS 4.95 now 3.47; and more at PAN­DORA'S BOOKS SB -ND AVES. 
Express disapproval of George Wallace at his rally tonight. Leave from Circle at 6:30. (Safety in numbers!). 
Pitt Club Election. If you are interested in running, call: John: 232-2725, Milo; 6726, Steve; 6756. 
WANTED 
Two female housemates needed. Summer only. Inexpensive & near campus. 284-5165. 
Girl wanted: April 20 May 20. To cook for 3oft-campus dwellers. 
Free room & board. Only serious inquiries. Call 233-3893. 
WANTED: We will do typing anytime for reasonable prices. Especially on shOrt notice. Call Chip 8256 or Mike 6963. 
Wanted: Volunteers lor Wallace to unite in effective political ac­tion. Contact: Dr. Helen Calvin, 103 S. Eddy Stree, South Bend. Indiana. Phone: 288-2201. 
Female hockey enthusiast with skating experience interested in helping out in the '72-'73 season. Call Mickey 4681 or Bethann 4908. 
MAKE GOOD, EASY MONEY 
selling  stereos  to  friends  at  
student  rates.  Need  un­ 
derclassmen  to  be  dorm  

representatives for stereo marketing service. Call Tom 
NOW 1318 or 1327. 
Wan ted: Unfurnished two bedroom house lor summer and next school year. Call Mike 283­1349. 
REVELATIONS 
DULAC DEMON'S DIABOLICAL DICTATE NO.1-ATTENTION! 0 Ye of little faith (and other horny devils): Lucifer Prince of 
Darkness, Deniyen of Dillon, Slayer of Beerslayer, Purveyor of Purity, Surveyor of Sobriety, Prem.iere of Piece, Voyeour of Vulgaria, and all-around-Bad-Guy contemptuously dares you to refrain from persuing Dictate No. 2! 
No. 2: (remember, fool: curiosity killed the call The afore mentioned Entity is (a) hoofing about freely and clovenly 
(b) incapable of mercy (c) desirous to let it be known that cockroaches make superb spies and (d) the mouthwash hasn't been made that can cut my breath! IDLE MINDS AND CARD TABLES ARE SATAN'S PLAYGROUND! 

Don't miss this chance to see the Number One group in England!! Hear them play their new album: .. 'Thick As a Brick" Presented by the Student Union Social Commission 
.,. 







