On The Inside 
Nixon vetoes Pollution Act ..•. pg. 3 
Budget called racist.... pg. 6 





serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Wednesday, October 18, 1972

Vol. VII No. 29 
200 crowd library auditorium 

Lowi speaks against liberalism 
by Ed Ellis Associate Editor 

"A permanent state of receivership" resulting from "interest group liberalism" is the pathological condition of the American polity today, according to Cornell political scientist Theodore Lowi. 
Lowi, speaking last night in the Library Auditorium before a crowd of about 200 students and faculty members, argued that the occurence of "positive government" alongside the non-coercive, "soft," or liberal state creates a dilemma around the political power inherent in the state itself. This results in the interest group liberalism. 
Avoidance of Coercion 
The concept of the state, Lowi said, implies coercion, but liberal-minded politicians--even so-called "conservative" politicians-try to avoid the concept of coercion in running their governments. In order to avoid coercion, power is split up and handed out to various segments of government. 
Lowi listed two manifestations of what he called a "pathological" dilemma. First, he said that laws of such a society are charac­terized by "high-flown" language backed by minimal sanctions. Second, political rhetoric in such a situation is concerned primarily with populary participation in government, which in reality means participation in in­dividual cases only, not in the general prin­ciples to be applied. 
Minimum Risk 
The society faced with such a dilemma, argued Lowi, will tend to minimize risk to anyone in the system, because this is its function as positive government. At the same time, the society will try to avoid restrictions on anyone, because of the nature of a liberal government. 
Because the government must support 
interests, it must then do things like loan 
money to Lockheed, which cost no one in 
particular any money, propose revenue 
sharing, and enter the housing business on a 
large scale. Lowi noted that the Federal 
government now owns more property in the 
United States than even "the Church." 
Institutionalization 
Lowi further stated that this pattern of a positive-soft government has become in­stitutionalized in the United States, i.e., it has managed to succeed itself and grow upon itself over the last forty years. President Nixon, he noted, governs much the same way as President Johnson did, which was much the same as President Kennedy. The major positive, soft programs have not been cut back, and most have been expanded. 

Nixon, contended Lowi, could have changed things, but instead he "chose to expand and confirm them." The only area where this was not true, according to Lowi, is civil rights, where the President has "misrepresented" busing, its causes,meaning, etc. In other fields, the Nixon Administration has expanded the role of the Federal bureaucracy, which Lowi opposes, he said, because the people running these programs are "stupid." the Federal government, he said, "is a big dumb cluck." 
Furthermore, anyone at all running a Federal bureaucracy in these areas will be a "big dumb cluck." 
Bad City Government 
Lowi said he was especially pessimistic about the chances of the Federal intrusion into revenue-sharing. He stated city governments tend to have the same pathological fear of coercion that is so prevalent in the national government. Because the cities are privilege-prone, machine-run, and corruption-ridden, the Federal funds will be totally wasted. In short, the recipient of the revenue will have all the money to distribute, but no power to do it with because all the power has been spread out. 
State government is the only level of government according to Lowi that ever uses the coercive power inherent in the nature of a government, and this means that nearly 98 per cent of coercive laws are state laws. 
Sick Polity 
Lowi concluded that a polity whose politics was afraid of power yet was expected to "intervene sooner than later" was a basically sick polity, and that the proper function of responsible political science was to be pathological rather than physiological: solution-oriented rather than purely descriptive. 
This sense of insight, he said, should offer a "sense of alternatives." This is the function of an intellectual in Lowi's terms. 


Judge sets Watergate trial for November 15 
by Agis Salpukas <Cl 1972 New York Times 
Washington, Oct. 17--United States District Court Judge John J. Sirica today set the start of the trial of the seven 11en indicted in the raid on the Democratic National Headquarters for November 15, a week after the national election. 
Despite vociferous objections from the four defense attorneys and agreement by the prosecutor that the date was too early for both sides to prepare their cases, Sirica refused to budge. 
It is likely therefore that little new material will come out from the courts, on the case, which has become an election issue. 
Gary Hart, the campaign director for Sen. George McGovern said today that Democratic charges of political sabotage would be turned into a campaign issue and that McGovern may go on half-hour television to deal with the issue. 
There is a sense among the McGovern staff that the issue may induce voters to look at his stand on the war, the economy and other issues. 
One of the men indicted in the Watergate bugging, Bernard L. Baker, is scheduled to go on trial on Oc­tober 30 in Miami on charges of "false and fraudulent use" of a Florida notary public seal on a campaign check. 
Circuit court judge Bernard F. Jennings of Fairfax County, Va., today ordered Hugh W. Sloan Jr., a for­mer offical of the Finance Committee of the Nixon campaign to appear on Oct. 30 to testify at the trial of Barker. 
Judge Paul Baker, who will hear the case in Miami, signed orders to extradite Sloan and two other men, Maurice H. Stans, a former Secretary of Commerce and now President Nixon's chief campaign fund raiser and Kenneth H. Dahlberg, chairman of the Minnesota Re-election Committee, to appear at the trial. 
Henry B. Rothblatt, who represents Barker, asked Sirica today he restrain the Barker trial since it would make it very difficult for him to handle and prepare for both trials at once. 
But as with the other four defense attorneys who argued that the trial be postponed, Sirica refused to intervene and stuck to his date. 
Meanwhile, it was learned that lawyers representing Lawrence F. O'Brien, the former Democratic Party chairman in a $3.2 million invasion of privacy suit over the Watergate bugging incident, will seek a sworn deposition from the 1 landlord of downtown Washington building next to what is now Sen. George McGovern's presidential campaign headquarters. 
All depositions in the three civil suits arising from the bugging, including O'Brien's, have been stayed pending completion of the criminal trial. 
The landlord, Leonard M.Gatti, confirmed in a telephone interviewlast week that he at one time rented the top floor office of a small, two-story building at 1908 K St. N.W. to "a Mr. McCord," who he said "wanted to open an accounting firm" there. 
Gatti, who said he never saw McCord in person but dealt with him only over the telephone, declined to give the man's first name or provide other details of the rental transaction, except to say that McCord paid rent on the property for an undisclosed period of time but never moved in. He said the lease was eventually 
(Continued on page 7) 


Wednesday, October 18, 1972
the observer
2 
warld briefs 
(c) 1972 New l';ork 11mes 
.. Washington -Henry A. Kissinger flew Tuesday night from another meeting with the North Vietnamese in Paris to a meeting with the South Vietnamese in Saigon amid strong indications throughout the government that negotiations for an Indochina cease-fire had reached a critical point. Several informed officials suggested that there had been considerably more progress between American and North Vietnamese negotiators than had been acknowledged, but that there was considerable uncertainty about President Nguyen Van Thieu of South Vietnam to the negotiations. 
Washington -The 92D Congress, stumbing toward adjournment, passed and sent to the White House a $6-billion welfare-social security bill stripped of the President's Welfare Reform Proposals. The house, meanwhile, approved compromise legislation giving the President his . requested authority to impose a $250 -billion ceiling on federal spending in the current fiscal year. 
New York-Brooklyn District Attorney Eugene Gold has obtained suopoenas for two Long Island public officials as part of his sweeping investigations of several hundred Mafia figures in the city. In ad­dition to the 100 policemen being subpena ted, a number of state motor vehicle officers will be asked to testify. 
Research and Development commissioner Jim Clarke has initiated a program to find sum­mer jobs for Notre Dame students. The program will be run with the cooperation of the Alumn Association and the Placement Bureau. 
Applications will be accepted at the Placement Bureau beginning next week and until November 15. 
James Cooney, executive the Placement Bureau," Cooney director of the alumni association, said. plans to meet with five regional Clarke noted that the prupose to committees during November to the program is to find jobs for begin local efforts to find summer those students who have trouble jobs for those who apply. finding summer work during the 
"\Ve plan to ask the regional Christmas vacation. offices to set up committees in "We realize that it will be dif­each of the major cities to deter­ficult for students to know if they mine the availability of summer are going to have trouble by Nov. jobs and file this information with 15, but the Alumni Association 
needs some estimate of the 
demand for these jobs during its


Female representative to 
November and December traveling," Clarke said. The Research and Development Commissioner noted that the


SLC to be elected Oct, 24 
prugram would try to place students in jobs in there hometown The special election to select a Badin residents will vote in the 

and in fields related to their

representative for the Student Life rector's office. Walsh, 0-C and 
majors.

Council from Badin and Walsh will other elegible women will vote in 
We can make no guarantees

be held on Tuesday, October 24, the Walsh rector's office. The polls 
about wages, location of the job,

according to Peg Pollers, a will be open from 11:00 until 6:00 
relationship of the job to a par­

member of the Walsh executive on Tuesday. 
ticular major or even the

council. Pollers said the rectors' offices 
availability of the jobs. All we can

Female undergraduate students were chosen as the ballot box sites 
say right now is that we are doing

at Notre Dame are eligible for because they are the most central 
our best to get a summer job

election. Sign-ups begin today in locations in the halls. The ballot 
program started," 'Clarke added. 

the off-campus lounge (Walsh hall) boxes will be supervised by 
In order to check that the jobs

or in the basement of Walsh. All students, however, and not by the 
will be provided for those students 

candidates must declare by rectors. 
Friday. No petition is .required. The special election is the result 
One representative from Badin, of Monday's decision by the SLC to Walsh, occ-campus women and seat a representative of Badin and Notre Dame women living at St. Walsh in one of the ex officio Mary's will be elected. student seats. 
'-II.IIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
Co-ex Ticket Schedule 
Stanford-Dillon Thurs. Oct. 19 Alumni-Zahm Fri. Oct. 20 Lyons-Grace Sat. Oct. 21 Pangborn-Fianner Sun Oct. 22 Fisher-Farley Mon. Oct. 23 Cav.-Sorin Tues. Oct. 24 St. Ed.'s-B.P. Wed. Oct. 25 
For Tickets See Your Hall President For information call Jim Clarke 1641 
..UIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIHIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII'IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
FRIDAY 


OCT. 20th
8:00P.M. 

The Concert Sound Of 
~~~ 
ROBERT BRUCE




HENRY MANCINI 
~~~ 
Ticket Prices: Bleachws •••••••••• $3.00 Lower •••••••• $5.50 
Lee• 
lain Floor 
...•.•••• $6.50 

an campu• teday 
12: SO seminar, "the juxtaposition of donor and recipient DNA in the genetic transforming of cacillus subtilis" by dt". robert f. erickson, galvin life center. 
7:00  spanish tutorial, regina hall lobby.  
7:30  film, "let us teach guessing," carroll hall  
8:00  lecture, "american responsibility in  the  

middle east," rev. joseph I. ryan, s. j. , area programs reading room, 1201 memorial library. 
8:00concert, cologne chamber orchestra with justus frantz, plano soloist, o'laughlin auditorium. 
8:00 debate, mcgovern vs. nixonomlcs, library auditorium 

at nd-•mc 

Nov 15 deadline set 


Council to help find seasonal jobs 
who are having most trouble finding summer work, Clarke said that a follow-up questionaire will be sent out in January. The program is open to all graduate and undergraduate Notre Dame students. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester ex­cept vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester (14 per year) from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
MICHAEL'S HAIR STYLING FOR MEN 
272~7222 
18381 Edison 
'-h mile east of campus 


Experts at Layer cuts, Shags, razor cuts and a II con­temporary styles. 
MOVIE 

Can Heironymous Merkin Forget Mercy Humpee and Find True Happiness 
Eng. Aud 6:30, 9:00, 11:30 Admission:' $1 

with Connie Kreske and Anthony Newley 

Bike Stuff 
Here's a whole new thing ... color coordinated action sportswear from Robert Bruce ... sweaters and pants designed to go together with flair. Stop in soon and see our collection of Bike Stuff. Great. 

What could be easier? ... 

Selection y'our apparel now and pay one-third Tickets 011 ule at: 
in January, one-third in February and one­NOTRE DAME A. C. C. 
third in March. No service or carrying charge of any kind added.

Box Office 9to 5Mtll.-Sat. Robertson's-South Belli &Elkhart St. Joe Bar* 11d braoches First Bar*-main office ~~~~ Elkhart 


~-~-~-~-­
Wednesday, Oct~ber 18, 1972 the observer 
3 

Nixon vetoes water pollution act 
by E. W. Kenworthy Pollution than the President had vironmental clean-up ever ap­would be 75 per cent, as compared President," Nixon said he was also 
<Cl 1972 New York Times proposed, the bill also would allow proved by Congress. It also set the with a maximum 55 per cent under concerned "that we attack the President to impound funds if most ambitious goals, the most a 1966 law. pollution in a way that does not he found that expenditures would stringent standards and the most In addition the bill provided $2.7 ignore other very real threats to 
Washington, Oct. 17--President increase inflationary pressures. strict control mechanisms of any billion to reimburse states and the quality of life, such as spiraling Nixon vetoed tonight the Federal Unless the President signed the environmental bill yet passed. cities for the Federal share of prices and increasingly onerous Water Pollution Act of 1972. bill, Ruckelhaus said; many en­It aroused intense opposition projects already completed or in taxes." 
In doing so, he brushed aside the vironmental groups would from industry because of its goals, progress which has not been paid. "Legislation which would recommendation of William D. question "the degree of Federal which would require large in­The total amount of these continue our efforts to raise water Ruckelhaus, the Administrator of commitment and interest and the vestments to achieve, and from the "reimburc;ibles" now amounts to quality, but which would do so the Environmental Protection Federal Government's ability to White House Office of 24.7 billion according to through extreme and needless Agency. He also chose to ignore provide stable and effective Management and Budget because 1congressional estimates, but only overspending, does not serve the the overwhelming support for the leadership" in environmental of the huge grants of Federal $2 billion according to the public interest," he said. bill in both Houses of Congress. legislation. money authorized for the con­estimates of the Environmental The President's veto message 
In a letter last week to Casper Ruckelhaus's recommendation struction of waste waste treatment Protection Agency. was delivered within minutes after Weinberger, the Director of the reflected the support of the bill in plants. By contrast, Nixon had proposed the Senate this evening had Office and Management Budget, both Houses of Congress. On Oct. 4 The bill authorized ap­only $6 billion in appropriations for rejected his proposed $250 billion Ruckelhaus strongly recom­the Senate passed the bill which propriations over three years of sewage plants over three years, spending ceiling--a fact duly noted mended that the President sign the which came out of a conference $24.6 billion, of which $18 billion and any payment of reimbursibles by Nixon, who linked the water bill, saying that it was "faithful" to committee with the House after 39 would be for grants to states and would have had to come out of that. pollution bill to the issue of higher the intent of the President's own meetings by a vote of 74 to 0. The municipalities for sewage plants, The bill set a goal of eliminating taxes and inflation. proposal to Congress in 1971. House passed it 366 to 11. although the actual expenditure of all pollution--"no discharge"-by Noting that there is "a well-worn 
Ruckelhaus also said that while The The Federal Water Pollution funds would be spread over seven industry and municipalities by political axiom which says that the bill authorized much more Control Act of 1972 authorized the years, the Federal share of the cost 1985, although it was generally any election-year spending bill, no money for control of Water largest appropriation for en-of the waste treatment projects agreed that this goal was almost matter how ill-advised defies veto 
impossible of achievement. by the President," Nixon said: But to this end, it required that "but I say that any spending bill
2 p.m. & 8 p.m. in library aud. industry employ the "best prac­this year which would lead to ticable" control technology by higher prices and higher~ taxes 1977, and the "best available" by defies signature by this 1983, taking into account what was · President." 
"economically achievable" but in r------------__,
Gary Wills to speak today 
the direction of the no-discharge goal. 

HANDMADE
Lecturer at the University of 

In his veto message to Congress,
Gary Wills, nationally 
California, and he is presently on the President based his action on 

LEATHER

syndicated columnist, lecturer and the Academic Committee of St. 
two major points: the $24 billion
author of seven books, will speak Mary's Ecumenical Institute of price tag in the bill, four times the on "Witchcraft in Shakespeare's Theology. 
amount proposed by the Ad­Belts -Headbands
Plays" at 2 PM and "The Loss of From 1967-70, he was con­ministration, and the need to hold available
the American Tradition" at 8 PM, tributing Editor to Esquire and his down Federal spending to curbThursday. Both lectures are in the syndicated column, "Outrider" is inflation and avert a necessity for Library Auditorium and are free. carried by Universal Press 
TONY'S SHOE

a tax increase. 
Wills received his B.A. from St. Syndicate He is a member of the Emphasizing that en-
SHOP

Louis University in 1957, a M.A. National Press Club, P.E.N., 
vironmental protection has been 
from Xavier University (1958) and Author's Guild, and the Catholic 
Behind the Dome Yale <1959>, and his Ph.D. from Commission on Intellectual and Yale in 1961. He was a Junior Cultural Affairs. In 1959 he 
"one of my highest priorities as 
Fellow of the Center for Hellenic married Natalie Cavallo, and they 
University of Notre Dame
Studies (1961-2>, and Associate presently have three children. Professor of Classics (1962-7) and His books include, Politics and Visiting Lecturer in Classics (1968-Catholic Freedom, The Second 91 at John Hopkins University. Gary Wills will lecture Thursday 'Civil War. Nixon Agonistes and 

Concerts 

Last year he was Regents' at the Library Auditorium. Bare Ruined Choirs. 
presents

HPC plans budget appeal 

Little Theatre of Sicilian Puppets 
by Mike O'Hare rationale for the increased fees should not be used for repairs Observer Staff Reporter allocation as "getting more money that should be paid for out of room 
that will be directly available to and board fees. the students." Spak explained that The HPC did not however take The Hall President's Council the students could become more any action to adopt the St)ecial 


DON QUIXOTE

plans to appeal the Student personnally involved in the committee's reccommendation to government finance committee's spending of their student ac­establish such a treasury. 
proposed HPC appropriation. tivities fee if more of this money Also at last night's meeting, As a result of last night's was budgeted to the HPC. Mike Jordan of the Alumni Office, meeting, HPC executive The HPC also heard a report told the HPC of the scheduled 
Thursday, Oct. 19 8:15p.m. 
coordinator Steve Jeselnick will from a special committee ap­Alumni Senate meeting the 
appear before the Board of pointed at its last session to study weekend of Novermber 18. He 
WASHINGTON HALL

Commissioners (the six student the potential scope of the HPPC. expressed the desire of the alumni SLC members the HPC Chariman Consisting of Walt Spak, Chris to live in the residence halls during and the student body president and Singleton, Jim Clarke, Fred their conference and asked the Admjssion -$3.00 ($2.00 students1 
vice-president) to appeal the Baranowski, and Ron Paja, the council to help find rooms for them recommended allocation and committee recommended the to stay. 
Call 283-6211 


present an alternate proposal. establishment'of an HPC treasury 
The finance committee for the fall of 1973. The treasury recommended appropriating would be funded directly from the $7,500 to the HPC with $3,250 going $14 student activites fee, with $4 to the HPC sponsored An Tostal going to the HPC and $10 to student weekend and $4,250 earmarked for government. the Hall Life fund. The $7,500 Spak believed that "a treasury proposed HPC allocation would would improve relations between average out to about $1.25 for each hall presidents and their residents of the 5200 on campus students. and insure the use of this money 
The HPC proposal however will for student activities only. call for a budget appropriation of HPC Chairman Butch Ward $4 per on campus student, totaling stated "We as halls are not going to about $20,000. Sorin Hall president use hall funds for maintenance." Walt Spak explained the HPC's He added that student activities 

says 
When it comes to pianos, we will do just about anything. 1t we con 't 80 it. we wi II try to find 
someone who does. 
Call me now for an appointment 674-9335 
~~Piano Pete'' 

Osceola, lndlaftei 
Quality Tuning and Repairing 
. ~ 
OBSERVER 
NEWS MEETING 
REORGANIZATION OF NEWS STAFF 
6:30pm THURSDAY Room 2D LaFortune EVERYBODY BE THERE! 
New People Welcomed. 
------------------------------~-­
4 
the observer 

Eurapean Trippinr:J
THE OBSERVER 
Oktoberfest: 

AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Munich's blastNews: 283-1715 Editorials printed in The Observer reflect the opinion of the writer, Editorial: 283-8661 on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the Business: HJ-7411 individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial comn1ent. 
ann mccarry

Wednesday, October 18, 1972 
Munich , Germany -Did you ever invite 4,800,000 people to a 24 day 
celebration and get 4,800,000 positive RSVP's? 
That. in a nutshell, is Oktoberfest: The world's largest beer blast, 
hosted by the world's largest beer-brewing city, for the sole purpose of 
toasting life with the season's new brew.AC: Good Job 
Despite the early date, plaudits are already due to the Academic Commission and particularly to its head, Jim Novic. Barely two months into the year, Novic's program has already surpassed any Academic Commission schedule in rec~nt memory. Quality events are the rule and not the exception this year. 
Last year's program 
Last year, the Academic Commission suffered through an uninspired year. This was due largely to their philosophy, which emphasized addresses by lesser known figures from the academic world. 
This year, however, Novic has added to that philosophy. He has included on the list of academic favorites, celebrities whose qualifications, presentations, and knowledge are as great as their drawing card names. 
The biggest name thus far on Novic's list was Norman Mailer who drew a large crowd to Stepan Center. Though Senator Edward Kennedy's speech was organized by the McGovern people, Novic's crew added their expertise to the running of the event. 
Lowi and Wills 
Last night, Theodore Lowi spoke before a good crowd in the.Library Auditorium. Lowi is a well-respected and reasonably famous political scientist who gave an impeccable presentation. Tonight, Gary Wills, the famous author of Nixon Agonistes, will speak. 
The schedule is excellent. The crew well-run. An early season, deserved ovation goes out to Novic and his Academic Commission. We're all looking forward to a continuing program with the sa me level of excellence. 
Jerry Lutkus 
Still Need Tix 
For the third year running, the ticket exchange program has been forced to extend the dates for turning in tickets. Program director B. J. Bingle, an­nounced last night that exchanges will be 
taken today and later into the week if necessary. 
The program will be jeopardized if an additional200 tickets are not turned in to the Athletic and Convocation Center today. 
We've said it already, but repetition seems in order. This project requires the aid of the entire student body and fur­thermore it deserves the aid of of the students of Notre Dame-St. Mary's. There are few programs at ND-SMC that are as worthy as this one. 
In the past two years, the project has been an absolute success. But in the case of this program, success cannot be measured in mere numbers. That is not the criterion. The criterion that is applicable here are the smiles and laughs of the hundreds of South Bend kids who get this once in a lifetime chance to see Notre Dame play. 
What's one weekend in the stadium? Next week, you'll be at the TCU game anyway. Give these kids a chance. Turn in your ticket and then step back and watch the joy of a child. There's no better payment. 
Jerry Lutkus 

An Apology 
One of the hardest things to do in the journalistic world is to admit that you made a mistake. There's a good deal of 
institutional pride caught up in the whole process, but there's no point in feigning infallibility. 
At any rate, The Observer wishehes to apologize for the Edward Kennedy cartoon which appeared on last Tuesday's editorial page. 
It is part of a newspaper's job to leap into the middle of a controversy and ferret out both sides of the argument. It is not, however, part of our job to generate that controversy by dredging up outdated editorial material. 
It remains true that cartoons and columns represent the opinion of only the writers and artists but in this case the material should never have appeared in print. 
So, once again, we're sorry. 
John Abowd 


"I never say such a huge party," said Ed Pascoe, "Such a huge display purely for enjoyment." 
Munich is Proud 

Munich is proud of her stature as the giant of the beer industry, and celebrates accordingly, in giant style. The festival grounds, located on the edge of the city, entertains guests from all parts of the world. A square mile of carnival rides and games provide cheap thrills for the young and the young at heart. Wurst and kraut stands about for the hungry while 25 beer halls, each larger than a football field, satisfy the thirsty, who range in age from 2-102. 
Every hall is packed to the rafters with beer-lovers who overflow into the aisles. This makes it nearly impossible to polka to the lively drinking songs the oom-pah bands supply. Tabletops provide the only dance floors and even ther must step carefully to avoid the empty mugs that slowly accumulate in the center. 
The estimated 1,000,000 gallons of beer are sold by the liter in steins that take two hands to lift. Pretzels are available in sizes up to the mammoth 16-inch-in-diameter model. 
People Make it Right 

The only thing that can outclass the size of the celebration is the magnanimity of the German people. The language barrier proved to be no obstacle to enjoyment and fraternizing with the Bavarians. You would be surprised how easy it is to learn German with a stein in your hands. Beer is bier. "Eins, zwei bsufa!" is the most popular toast and when the Germans kept urging us to "Drink en! Kdrinken!" we had no trouble understanding them. 
It was not necessary to drink beer in order to have a good time. 
Wine out of a Mug 

"People really ragged me at first because I was drinking wine out of my beer mug," related Jane Thorton. "But as long as I was having a good time, they accepted it, and me happily." 
One German even treated another non-beer drinker to champagne. 
"I wanted to meet the German people and Oktoberfest was the ideal opportunity. They are truly beautiful, warm and friendly," com­mented another of the 25 Rome students in attendance. 
Clearly, the enjoyment of the festival was enlarged by the German people. Their gusto and complete involvement in every aspect of the festival is contagious. The fervor with which they perpetuate the Oktoberfest is indicative of their love of life and good times. 
"Oktoberfest is very nice," Herr Hermann Shmon, a typical Ger­man celebrant said. "The beer is very good, and all is expensive. The advice we give to all our guests is to do and see." ., 
Six Down, Four to go 

When I met him, 65 year old Schmon had already drained six liters of beer <The equivalent of about four gallons) and finished four more liters after I joined him. His spirit and zest typify the magic that makes Oktoberfest happen. As he taught us German toasts, drinking songs and spoke of traditions and legends, the magic came alive for us 
too. 

Perhaps Leslie Cella summed it up best. 
"Oktoberfest was fantastic-I wouldn't have missed it for anything. The German people are very refreshing and they have a lot of spirit. Now I can see why their beer is the greatest'." 
llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 
Only signed typewritten letters to the editor will be considered for publication. Names will be withheld upon request. Mail letters to The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556, or bring them to the office on the third floor of LaFortune. Priority will be given to shorter letters. We reserve the right to edit letters to meet space 
requirements. 
IIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIJIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
the observer 
staff 
Nite editor: Jack Frischkorn Asst. Nite editor: Kathy Schwille Sports Nite editor: Stan Urankar Layout: AI. 0'Antonio, Robert 
Baker Nite controller: John Flannigan Typists: Mary Romer, Dianne 
Chermside, Rust, Nalle Pictureman: Jerome Phillips Moral Support: Marty Kabbes 
Goodby Kathy, it's been rea I. 


Wednesday, October 18, 1972 the observer 
5 

Letters Ta A Lanely Gad 
a secret place, the land of tears 
r•v. rab•r't IJriffin 


Last week, Rod Braye, the editor to whom I been wearmg spats and a bowler hat, Outside the window, lovers walk arm in a tough one, and you have just celebrated a submit my articles each week, asked me for whistling like a libertine. Soon after that, arm. They stop to kiss, then look up, and birthday that reminds you that October is no a title for my Observer columns. I am not he's at supper, and then to bed, with no smile and wave. These are the kids who longer young. Tonight, you argued with a 
gifted in choosing titles, but I decided, for explanations as to whether he has been sent you the birthday card of "The Beautiful boy who wept for an hour because his father, 
the time being at least, to label my work behaving as a priest's dog should. In the Hands of the Priest." You read the poem he thinks, doesn't love him. There is no "Letters to a Lonely God." The phrase is an morning, I awaken to find that great puppy again, and you clean your fingernails. Then way, you said, that a father can be loveless echo of a book title, In the Kingdom of the head silhouetted against the light from a you prepare candles to burn for the night. toward his child. Your only proof isthatyou Lonely God. The book consists almost neighbouring room, and I know that my dog I could go on endlessly with the list of the know if you had children, you would love entirely of material of mine that has ap­has been watching while I have slept, and little, closed societies, with their little fund them. But you have no way of knowing if peared in the Observer for over two years that is the only real togetherness we have of shared secrets, to which you can never they would understand how much you loved now. and will come out in January. By way these days. belong, with whom you are never at home; them; perhaps they, too, would ache so of self-defense, I would like to say I have no As with my dog, so with the world: it too the liturgists, for example, who regard much from a sense of lovelessness that real hangups on loneliness; but loneliness, I has been off on errands of its own, in hot themselves as the authentic keepers of the some evening they would have to bring their 
pursuit of shadows and butterflies. All over Lord's table. Theirs, they tell you, is the sufferings to a priest.
fear, is a very real problem for God. It is the 
price you pay for not being popular. the campus, the Freshmen are reading only game in town, and you know you should Instead of children, there is a young 
Jung, and Sophomores are reading Freud, be spending Sundays clerking at the A. & prostitute you must worry about, and an Sometimes I feel that my dog, Darby or if it isn't the underclassmen, it's the P. Or there are the young priests, tailored orphan child in need of clothes. There is a O'Gill is keeping secrets from me. Rather psych majors and the lesbians. Jung and by Brooks Brothers, newly arrived from boy with tensions locked inside himself, and 
regularly these fall afternoons, he takes off Freud are always being read in some their graduate studies in counselling. Their you don't know how to reach the secret 
(without previously consulting the Kennel estoeric group on this campus, most often, it idiom reminds you of the ministers you places inside where the words are in a Master) to skirmish with the stout but­seems, by thin chaps and their leggy girls grew up with in a New England, Protestant logjam. terflies of October, or to chase the ground who keep notebooks in praise of their latent childhood; you gave up their type for the As Saint Exupery said, "It is such a secret shadows that footballs make as they spiral ids. The Freudians are nice people until comfort of an infallible pope, In a non­place, the land of tears." through the air. Darby is really too ear­they ask about ypur mother; the Jungians verbal, non-directive way, you love them, but The world is filled with secret places and thbound to trap butterflies; and though he are absolute peaches until they inquire you wonder what would happen if you asked private persons. Dogs like Darby O'Gill would like to catch a football, to make love about your dreams. Why should I tell a them to say a rosary. have visits they can make on October af­to it, he had never learned the folly of Freudian about my mother? Why should I Most of the time, it doesn't bother you, ternoons. Where does a priest go when he is chasing shadows. Anyway, the sporting tell a Jungian about my dreams? Darby, this feeling of not being at home anywhere teased into restlessness by the autumn 
with his paw prints on the pillow, does a these days, not even in a church whose gypsies? I know the traditional answers,about with moths and pigskin are just the better job of overseeing the bedroom than nearest bishop regularly chides you for but sometimes even God is a very privatecharades he plays for me, because amidst all the Jungians I know of and he doesn't transgressions against the received doc­person. Outside Him, every place seems aseverything, several hours later with the air 
of an elegant tramp, as though he had just keep notebooks on it, either. trine and discipline. But the week has been frivolous as a pursuit of butterflies. 
jungle habitat: talk to the animals 
paul j. c. fried/onder 

the hills. The wildest things beside the road will remain, as will the herd of seven New people mostly from within a 50-mile radius are peacocks and many ot-her less Jersey whitetail deer who lived on the although it lies within reach of a 29 million glamorous feathered friends, and a small property before Jungle Habitat and just population marketing area of New England,herd of baby elephants. Deer begin to stayed on as permanent boarders. The lions New York and New Jersey.become numerous. also will remain, since they seem to like cold Originally the Habitat operators had 
Signs warn you to close windows and stay weather and love to romp in the snow. planned to taper off after Labor Day,in the car and that rangers are watching as A veterinarian plays doctor to this mixed concentrating on school groups during the you drive through a high wire fence and stop family of beasts and Warner Brothers plans wPek and the public on weekends, but abruptly because a pair of lions are to establish several acres as an Animal business has been s so ~ood that Habitat will sprawled in the middle of the road, fully Preservation Center, a nonprofit institution run seven days a week at least throughrelaxed. Under the tree a few feet away a for the behavioral study of animals, with Thanksgiving, continuing through the pride of five lions lies equally relaxed and animals and facilities and opportunity to use winter as the weather permits. Fall foliagesprawled out, some sleeping. The Habitat hoth offered without churge to college travel should bring good crowds up this way attendants feed their animals each morning faculties and students. for, once off the thruway, this is a beautiful from jeeps and trucks so that they develop a The publicity material notes that $10 mountainous corner where New York and tolerance for the strange contraptions that million is invested in the plant itself, $ll/2 New Jersey meet. A Habitat visit needs a bring them their daily diet. million in animals, and it takes about $6 minimum oi two hours, can be expanded to 
There are 33 lions now in residence, million to operate is annually. It draws a full day.
(c) l!li2 New York Times 
constituting a half-dozen prides, and at least four or five are pregnant at a time, dropping 
Wt>st Milford. N.J--Any manufactured two and three cubs a month. Neither thetourist attraction that gets $3.75 a head for lions nor any other animals are sedated,adults and $2 for children and attracts half a 
cologne orchestra
according to Habitat spokesmen, but theymillion paying customers in its first three are all well fed, have no need to forage, andmonths warrants a close inspection. Jungle hunger pangs do not make them predatoryHabitat, the Warner Brothers tourist trap or as dangerous as they might be on their The Cologne Chamber Orchestra will conducted several orchestras there lastthat opened July 15 in the beautiful blue­
native turf. appear at Saint Mary's College O'Laughlin season.
green rolling hills of the Ramapo Moun­There are tigers in residence but they are Auditorium on Wednesday, October 18, 1972 Mueller-Bruhl is director of mastertains, clocked its 500,000th visitor the other not yet settled down enough and acclimated at 8:00p.m. classes for Chamber Music at the Academia day and is already a profit-making private to their new environment so as to be trusted After two sold-out American tours, under lnternationale di Musica de Camera inenterprise. It did so well in midsummer that 
in the presence of paying guests. Another the direction of Helmut Mueller-Bruhl, the Rome, Italy.
many days they had to close the gates for few months should suffice. The lions are so Cologne Chamber Orchestra returns to the Justus Frantz joins the orchestra for thelong stretches. At these peak periods, 8,000 well adjusted that they sometimes fail to act United States with Justus Frantz as piano first time. This celebrated young Europeancars were crawling bumper to bumper their roles. In their wilderness, felines soloist. pianist established his brilliant careeramong the freely roving animals. 
normally sleep or doze 18 hours a day. Helmut Mueller-Bruhl founded the through performances with the BerlinWe drove the 45 miles up here from New The mechanized cowboys herd the lions Cologne Chamber Orchestra in 1960. It was Philharmonic, and ·duo concerts withYork on a weekday two weeks after Labor gently toward the road where they can see established solely for the purpose of per­violinist Pinchas Zuckerman and fellowDay. Jungle Habitat was not jammed, but and be seen. Their diet of raw horsemeat forming at the famed Augustusburg Palace pianist Christoph Eschenbach. 
we encountered lines of cars and a com­plus Zoo-preme, a combination of vitamins, at Bruhl, near Cologne. It was his wish to Tickets are $3.50 and $2.00, and availablefortably occupied parking lot in the middle minerals and other healthful goodies, keeps fill again the beautiful castle with the joy at Saint Mary's College, Room 239, Moreauof the 450 acres. Adults and children were the lions helathy but, since they no longer and beauty it was intended to house when Hall or call 284-4176 for reservations.
walking through Jungle Junction, where have to hunt for their raw meat, slightly Clemens August created it in 1725. Thevisitors can get out of their cars and wander slothful. 
great success this ensemble had, hasaround safe from wild animals. 
Habitat seemed to have more than enough resulted in numerous tours in all the greatThis is a good show; Warner Brothers is a 
big name in show business and animal zebras, explained thus: zebras come in music centers of Europe and the Far East,
herds and to maintain them in loose cap­
as well as the United States. The orchestra 
farms like Jungle Habitat are show tivity the integrity of the herd has to be has thirty-five recordings for which theybusiness. Taken for what it is, this is a first­maintained, so they were moved in in a have been awarded such outstandingrate tourist attraction. The best endor­body. Apparently ostriches also go in recognition as the Grand Prix Du Disquesement can be heard in the joyful screeches groups, for there are a lot of them. 
" 
of toddlers when they see their first live and the !Grand Du Discophiles, musical
The bears---a big brown one was chasing a 
recording honors of Europe.

ostrich running around loose in the woods. 
small black one away from his feeding area Mueller-Bruhl's formal education em­I had avoided animal farms in the recem when we drove by---are in a large enclosure braced theology, philosophy, musicology.
past because they sounded commercial and similar to that of the lions. Timber and His practical experience in theory, countercontrived. Several hours spent in Jungle black wolves are held safely in pens, as are point and conducting was received fromHabitat proved that they must be com­the allibators. Bison, llamas, deer, eland prominent German masters. He alsomercial and very carefully contrived, first and several other varieties of beasts live received special training in violin.
to make it possible for people and animals to amicably together on the hillsides. Fifteen 
meet on reasonably equal and intimate and Since 1961, he has been artistic director of
hyenas are coming in soon for the winter. 
natural terms and, second, to be. the Bruhl Castle Concerts and permanent
The alligators, giraffes and other animals 
economically successful. conductor of the Cologne Chamber Or­
that cannot tolerage New Jersey winters
Safari Drive starts off quietly as the two­chestra. He was the first West German
soon will go south to a Florida game farm. 
lane one-way macadam road climbs up into conductor invited to Czechoslovakia, and
The gnu and the addax, an Asian antelope, 


Wednesday, October 18, 1972
6 the observer 
Racism charged on budget 
by Tom Sheridan and Michael Baum 
Charging "institutional racism", the New Frontier Scholastic Society <NFSSl is objecting to the proposed Student Government Budget. The society opposes, the joint funding recommendation of the Finance Committee that links it to another organization, the Society of Ujamma. 
In a released statement, the 
NFSS said, "We object to the at­
tempt of the Finance Committee to 
impose racial standards on our 
membership. The attitude ex­
pressed in the Budget Recom­
mendations Statement appears to 
demonstrate that any organization 
with black membershin is 
authomatically considered by 
Student Government to be an ex­
clusively Black Organization, 
when in fact this is not the case." 
The release goes on to say, "We 
neither define nor consider our­
selves a "Black" Organization, 
and the attempt by the Finance 
Committee to do so (whether or not 
intentionally) constitutes an act of 
institutional racism." 
The Finance Committee's report 
has recommended that the NFSS 
and the Society of Ujamma receive 
one joint allocation of $2,500 to 
prevent the "duplication of ser­
vices". 

In theopinion of Ray Turner, a 
member of the NFSS, Student 
Government has labeled the 
society "black" because it's 
membership at this point is 
predominately black. He said that Student Government has wrongly implied that Ujamma represents the consensus of Notre Dame blacks. 
Turner feels that the joint allocation of funds is the effect of a larger aspect, the thrusting of Ujamma and the NFSS into a corner as "black organizations". 
Echoing Turner's appraisal, Ron Newkirk, who holds membership in both organizations, suggested that the lumping together of both groups by Student Government was an act of "overt racism". According to Newkirk, the NFSS may reject the joint allocation and ask for a separate allocation. 
Bob McCrady of the executive council of Ujamma said that he felt the allocation procedure as recommended to be "based on 

certain prejudices" and said that 
he saw no reasoning to the 
proposal. 
Mike Nickerson, vice-chairman 
of Ujamma asked only for what it 
needed, presenting a definite plan 
for usage of the money. For 
example, a Black Arts Festival is 
being considered among the ac­
tivities. 
Nicherson said that he has no real 
concern at present, since the 
budget is only a proposal, but that 
he feels there is no sense in this 
part of the budget. 
He also said that he feels that if reasonable answers are given concerning the failure to meet Ujamma's proposed separate allocation, the members will come 
to agreement. 
Dr. Poinsatte will attend. conference 
I 
Dr. Charles Poinsatte, Professor programs. The teachers and of history at Saint Mary's College, professors who attend the con­will attend the Advanced ference will discuss revisions of Placement Regional Conference in their classroom teaching and 
Evanston, Illinois, on Saturday, testing techniques in each subject October 14, 1972, as one of the area. nationally selected readers. The advanced testing program 
The conference will discuss then is based upon the national current and future trends in the 
norm which resUlts from the Advanced Placement Program, conference planning and, con­including recent changes in the sequently, indicates the student's 
American and European History level of academic performance in 
Nine freshmen awarded AFROTC scholarships 
Nine Notre Dame freshmen have been awarded four-year Air Force Reserve Officer Training Coprs ( AFROTC) scholarships in natiom•·ide competition. Each grant pays full tuition, book costs, labor a tory fees and $100 per month for Jivi~1g expenses. 
Recipients include: 
John W. Froman, son of Mr. and Mrs. John W. Froman, 1 Wrangle Lane, Freehold, N.J., a member of the National Honor Society and Shield and Key at Freehold High School. He will major in business administration at Notre Dame. 
Robert C. Parro, son of Mr. and Mrs. Robert C. Parro, 1105 Coach Rd., Homewood, Ill., who was named Pullman and Illinois State Scholar at Marian Catholic High School. He will study electrical engineering at Notre Dame. 
George F. Grimm, son of Mr. and Mrs. George R. Grimm, 10519 Monroe St., Kansas City, Mo., a winner of the Regent's Scholarship at Ruskin High School. He will be enrolled in the College of Arts and Letters at Notre Dame. 
DanielL. Cramer, son of Mr. and Mrs. Harry D. Cramer, 410 E. Tiffin St., Fostoria, Ohio, an honor roll student at St. Wendelin high school. He will major in aeronautical engineering at Notre Dame. 
Michael J. Worle, son of Mr. and Mrs. Fred J. Worle, 75 Snowberry Lane, Central Islip, N.Y., who won the Regent's Scholarship at Central Islip High School. He will study in the College of Arts and Letters at Notre Dame. 
Joseph A. Eichelkraut, son of Mr. and Mrs. Harold F. Eichelkraut, 7507 Davian Drive, Annandale, Va., a member of the Bishop Ireton and National Honor Societies at Bishop Ireton High School. He will major in aerospace engineering. 
Charles W. Quackenbush, son of Mr. and Mrs. Charles W. Quackenbush, 143 Spinning Rd., Dayton, Ohio, a member of the National Honor Society at Walter 
E. Stebbins High School. He will major in economics at Notre Dame. 
David B. Richter, son of Mr. and Mrs. A. James Richter, 1020 Bedford Lane, Ballwin, Mo., winner of scholarship honors at John F. Kennedy High School. He will major in aerospace engineering at Notre Dame. 
Bruce M. Ferraro, son of Mr. and Mrs. Nicholas Ferraro, R.R. 4, March Rd., Jefferson, Ohio, a member of the National Honor Society and Academic Challenge Team at Jefferson High School. He will be enrolled in the College of Arts and Letters at Notre Dame. 
• 

AVOID THE ACC RIP-OFF 
FREE Folk Concert 
featuring Frank Martin Thurs Nite 10-11 :30 RATHSKELLAR sponsored by the S.U. Social Comm. 
relation to the national level. 
Dr. Poinsatte, who has acted as a reader in American History Ad­vanced Placement Test for the last six summers, encourages students in the area to investigate advance placement testing. 
By means of test performance a student may receive hours of college credit--even up to a full college year--in a variety of disciplines, which can conserve much unnecessary money, time, and effort in pursuing a college degree. The tests are sponsored by the Educational Testing Service centered in Princeton, New Jer­sey, with a charge of $10-$15 per test. 
"Many more students who now know little or nothing about Ad­vanced Placemnt could profit from such a service," according to Dr. Poinsatte, "since most colleges across the nation, including Saint Mary's College, accept the test results." 
As a reader, Dr. Poinsatte contributes ideas to the con­struction of the American History test and the general program and participates in the examination and evaluation of the program. Dr. Poinsatte's wife, Dr. Ann Marie Poinsatte, is a Professor of French at Indiana University in South Bend and a reader of French for the testing service. 

Readers are selected nationwide from various disciplines in order to provide a balanced perspective. 
BICYCLE SALE 


Savings up to 15% 
BICYCLE CENTER 
OPEN MONDAY 'Tll 8:30 PM 
Daily 9:30 'ti15:30 
Phone 287-1623 

1437 Portage Ave. 
Students for McGovern 

"ALL QUIET ON THE WESTERN FRONT" 
7-9-11 pm Thurs., Oct. 9 Engineering Aud. Admission $1.00 
DUKE UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF LAW 

A member of the faculty of Duke University School of Law will be on campus on Tuesday, October 24 to interview prospective applicants. Please contact the Placement office for an ap­pointment. 
Information may also be obtained from Associate Dean Frank T. Read, Duke Univer­sity, School of Law, Durham, North Carolina 27706. 
THE PARTY CANDIDATE. 

From one beer lover to another. 

7

Wednesday, October 18, 1972 the observer 

campments in neighboring Israeli attack on Southern Lebanon Egypt last July.counties without waiting for a Sept. 16-17 got the Lebanese to The Munich episode appeared to provocation is meeting what begin a crackdown, it was argued. bring to a close a chapter in which amounts to tacit apporval from Therefore, Sunday's more limited the Un~ted States had before it an United States officials. raids should encourage them to unparalleled opportunity influence 
For the record, the State continue. Egyptian policies in the Middle Department let it be known The limited, almost perfunctory East and at the same time bringyesterday that Israeli Ambassador scope of this exchange illustrates the Israelis to the point of Yitshak Rabin would be queried on how deeply United States' Middle negotiating a peace settlement. the policy after a series of air East policy has been affected by High-ranking state Department
strikes Sunday against Guerrilla the Arab terrorist raid in Munich officials are known to believe that 
targets in Lebannon and Syria. early last month which resulted in Sadat's expulsion of the Soviets 
But the discussion, according to the death of 11 Israeli athletes at produced a new flexibility in the State Department sources later in the Olympic Games. Israeli political hierarchy that was the day, amounted to no more than In the past, Israeli reprisal at­just beginning to open the way to a quarter-hour session between tacks on Lebanon, almost in­new peace initiaves when the blow Rabin and Assistant Secretary of variably causing more loss of life fell at Munich. State Joseph J. Sisco after a than the Fedayeen attacks that Since then, the same officials diplomatic luncheon. provoked them .have been deplored have spoken hopefully of an 
State Department spokesamen by the State Department as an eventual resumption of Middle were otherwise silent about the impediment to U.S. Israeli East peace talks. But as a meeting. But according to in­cooperation. They have generally practical matter they appear to formed sources, the only been held to threaten what little have accepted the Israeli view that disagreement between the two was remaining leverage the United no further negotiations are worth 
over a question of tactics. States can exert in the Arab world entering until the threat of Arab 
Sisco is said to have warned that to protect American interests Terrorism is snuffed out renewed Israeli attacks on there and press for an eventual altogether.Lebanese territory would make it peace settlement. Accordingly, the U.S. Govern­harder for the government in It was not publicly noticed at all ment has taken the lead in pressingBeirut to keep up its hesitant ef­yesterday that the Israeli's for international action againstforts to control Palestinian weekend raid happened to coincide terrorism. especially Arab 
Western Europe faces 1najor 
•
econo1n1C & political challenge 
by Andrew Borowiec between the old and new members among them are the trade attitude ((') 1!172 .Vashington Star-News of the COlnmon Market are acute. toward the United States and the Nationalism is as strong as ever. countries of the Third World, the The summit meeting precedes question of a European Parliament Paris, Oct. 17--Western Europe by several months the much­elected by popular suffrage and faces a major political and publicized European Security the perennial issue of regional economic challenge this week Conference, a pet project of Soviet policy aimed at eliminating the 
when the leaders of nine common diplomacy, likely to start differences between the poor and market nations meet for their first deliberations next spring. It is rich areas within the Common summit. expected that the Common Market Market. 
There is no euphoria and not "nine" will make a serious at­For the budding European unity, much hope for impressive concrete tempt at approaching the con­it was most unfortunate that results. In the words of French ference with some degree of Norway, which was to become the President Georges Pompidou, the unanimity. lOth member, rejected the Com­two-day summit beginning The Paris Summit will equally mon Market in a referendum last Thursday "will not be a turning permit the clearing of the air month. Still Denmark and Ireland point in history--not even in between the six old and three new have voted "yes" and Britain, European history." Common Market members on a where no referendum was held, 
The statement chilled con­variety of the thorny economic and has already decided to throw in its siderably the expectations without, institutional prlbems. Foremost lot with that of Europe. however, impairing the challenge before the nine heads of state or 
Deadline to be extended
government of the members of the expanded European Economic Community (E.E.C.l. 
Some answers will have to be 
for turning in football tix 
found and some decisions will have to be taken if Western Europe is to The deadline for those students 
time, but this weekend it will be"accept the challenge of the who wish to turn in their tickets open from 10 a.m. Saturday until 2 

future." Although the summit for the N.D. -Mo. game this a.m. Sunday. may not be a momentous event, it Saturday will be extended todayis likely to establish the basis for and if necessary tomorrow. In addition to student tickets, the common thinking of the countries Yesterday's turn in was not exchange project also urgentlyoccupying the heart of the old sufficient to reach the needed needs drivers and monitors. 
continent. quota, and according to B.J. Anyone interested in helping out in It will be, mainly a Bingle, student director, if close to these capacities should attend a 
pshychological summit. It comes 
200 tickets are not turned in today short meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in 
at a time when what is known as or tomorrow the entire project the second floor lobby of the "European construction," despite may be in jeopardy. student center.the enlargement of the common 
Senior Bar manager Jim About 700 South Bend childrenmarket, is undergoing severe 
Maruccilli announced last night associated with with the volunteer strain. The pioneering spirit of that the bar will be open during the services, in which many Notre building a united Europe is Missouri game to entertain those Dame stud,ents are involved, are 
waning. There are few prospects students who support the Ticket looking forward to the game.that a European superpower is 
Exchange Program. The program is now in its third about to be born. Differences Since the exchange deadline has year. The first two ticket ex­been extended through Thursday, changes were complete successes. 
Judge sets Nov. Marcucilli and his staff felt that All three have had the support of keeping the bar open would en­University President Theodore M. courage more students to con­Hesburgh, Coach Ara Parseghian
for trial date 
tribute their tickets. Usually the and the co-captains of the (Continued from page 1) bar closes shortly before game respective teams. 
guerilla bands based in Southern with the start of a high-level terrorism; and has invoked council resolutions that rebukeby Oswald Johnston 
Lebanon. Egyptian mission to Moscow. In unusually stringent entry visa Israel for reprisals without also<C> 1972 Washington Star-News 
Rabin, sources said, aruged Cairo Sunday night, the gravity of controls on all Arab nationals-not condeming Palestinian Guerrillas. instead that increased Israeli the mission was underlined bv only excluding some diplomats. Last month, in just such a toughness against Lebanon-based President Anwar El-Sadat's At the same time, the word is situation, the United States cast its Washington, Oct. 17---Isreal's Fedayeen has, if anything, helped most conciliatory language about being passed at the United Nations second veto in 26 years as a per­tough new policy of hitting the Lebanese army control the Russians since well before the that American Delegates will no manent memeber of the security
suspected Arab Guerilla en­Guerilla activity. A large-scale expulsion of Soviet advisers from longer hesitate to veto security council. 
CLASSIFED' RDS 
NOTICESWANTED Does your club or organizationDesperately need ride to Wash. 

need cheap transportation in the

D.C. area, Oct. 19 or 20. Please 
Michiana area?? Ride the "Blue
call 5336. 
Beasty." Call Crew Club, 6309 or 8825. "We have no limits."

Need ride to Philly for Navy game, will share expenses & 
Morrissey Loan Fund. Borrow updriving. Can leave anytime after to $150. LaFortune Basement.

3:00 on Wed. Call Dave 3679. 
Open 11:15-12:15 Monday thru Friday.

4 general admission tickets needed for Miami. Will pay 
HELP the helpless unborn, withreasonable prices . 1796. 

time, money or both. Right-to Life, Inc. 233-4295.

Need 4 gen. admission tickets for Missouri game. Call Jim 7864. 
St. Mary's Study Tour, England, Ireland, Scotland, Wales, Dec. 27·Need two genera! admission tix 

Jan. 16, 2 History credits

for Missouri game. Frank 8610. 
available, open to St. Mary's and Notre Dame students. For detailsRoom-mate wanted call 232-4545. 

contact Professor Black 4948 or 272-3726.

Need 2 gen. ad. TCU tix, call 4719. 
Piano lessons: Call Eddie Sears

Faculty · NO community, young 
232-6882; $5 per hour; $3 per half

girl who works in South Bend and hour.
Notre Dame, wishes to rent extra bedroom in your home. Call 283· Europe over Christmas.
7401. 
Fly with the best · Fly BOAC. Incredibly inexpensive! BritishWILL TRADE 2 TCU TICKETS Overseas Airways. Call Clark,FOR 2 MISSOURI TICKETS. 

283-8810, for details.
4388. 
PANDORA'S BIRTHDAY. BUYWanted: typing, themes, & SAVE.

manuscripts. Call: Jane Smith 
MANDALA 4.95 · 3.43, LIVINGat: 233-6909. 

ON THE EARTH 3.95 · 2.69, ANY WOMAN CAN! 1.95 · 1.32, DAY

Need 2 G.A. Missouri tix, call 
OF JACKAL 1.75 1.23,
1824. 
FISCHER-SPASSKY 1.95 · 1.32, ROLLING STONES BIOG. 6.95 · Need 4 general admission tickets 

4.57, TASSAJARA BREAD BOOKfor TCU. Need not be together. 

2.95 · 2.20, KNOTS 1.45 · .98, ARTCall John 1605. 

OF SENSUAL MASSAGE 3.95 · 2.69, THE PEARL 1.95 · 1.32,

I need a roomate. 2 headed, 
MCGOVERN 1.95 · 1.32, AND

anything. 233-1329. Private. 
MORE.

Gorgeous. Keep trying. 
Desperately need 4 TCU tickets. 
McGovern only 8 points behind in

Phone 287-6010. 
Michigan. Detroit area badly needs workers for canvassing andNeed one Missouri gen. ad. ticket. 

organization. Food and place toName your price. Call Jim 7858. 

stay provided. Contact Ray Seraffin (NO 1970) (313) 729-3550.

Desperately need two gen. ad­mission tickets to TCU. Call 6701. 
PERSONALS 

Need ride to Pittsburgh and back 
Budman-I do not like to be calledweekend of Oct 20. Will pay. 

a chickie!
Mark 1952. 
.Linda and Mamie, thanx for theNeed ride to Davenport, Iowa on tickets.

Oct. 20th. Call 1600. 
Happy 18th Birthday Chris.

Riders wanted to Kent, Ohio Love, Sam
Friday Oct. 20. Ken 8810. 
FOR RENTNeed 3 gen. ad. tickets for Miami, call 1478 Hawkeye. 

Rooms-Nice home, close to town . For football weekends $6.00 per

Dire need of 2 TCU gen. admin. 
person. 232-2989 after 6 pm.

tix, Call Jim at 1918, or 234-8759. 
LOST AND F0l1NDNeed ride Oct. 20th to Bowling Green• Ohio or tollway east. Call 

Lost. on Saturday, silver­

Bruce at 1374. 
rhinestoned cross, about 1112" long. Of great sentimental value.

Need ride to Erie or Cleveland Call 4425.
Oct. 20th . Gary 1101. 
Desperately need two gen. adm. TCU tickets. Will pay. Call 3254. 
FOR SALE Deadline for all classified ads is 
1: oo pm the day beforeNew Westinghouse Compact publication. All ads Ml1ST beRefrigerators. Spacious 4.4 cu. ft. 

placed in person.

capacity, factory warranty, immediate delivery. Call Now! 234-0578 or 232-2618. Ask for Tom. 
1963 MGB. Tape player, new tires. Call Stephen M. Buente 232· 2849. 
·Sell lllu team posters this Misc. for sale: Kitchen set (table 
weekend. Make SO cent'S each. No & 4 chairs) 35"X47" $28.00, 2 end 
Investment. Call Bob at 1204

tables & coffee table $27.00, 120 lb. 
tonight between 7-8:30.

wt. set $17.00, mens golf shoes size 8 like new $5.00, davenport & matching chair $85.00, size 15" goodyear surbunite snow tires like new $50.00. ($140.00 value Words lda 2da 3da 4da 5danew). Call 291-4063. 
l-1Q .65 .95 1.15 1.35 1.55 11-15 1.00 1.50 1.85 2.10 2.40

For sale 1971 Suzuki 500 with 2 16-20 1.30 1.95 2.15 2.55 2.95
helmets· $600 or best offer. Call 
21-25 1.70 2.55 3.20 3.85 4.45

Tom 232-0659. 
26·30 2.10 3.15 3.95 4.75 5.45 
31-35 2.45 3.65 4.45 4.75 6.15

Carpet 11'Xl2' for sale. Light 
36-40 2.80 4.20 5.25 6.75 7.75

brown $20. CaII 233-4654 after 5 41-45 3.15 4.70 5.90 7.10 8.20 
pm. 
46-50 3.55 5.20 6.50 7.80 8.95 

Chevy Impala, 66, extremely good 
condition. One family car. Call 
Holy Cross House. 283-6337. 
Cl LA Christmas Cards now on sale. Support our summer projects. For more info call Mike at 1509. 
terminted "by mutual consent." 
Sirica explained that he decided on the November 15th date because it was exactly 60 days after the filing of the indictments, the time period set by the judicial con­ference during which major, prominent criminal cases should ideally be tried. 
Sirica, who is the chief judge of the court and decided to hear the case himself, also said that he was thinking of the convenience of the jurors who would be questioned for jury duty during the holidays if the date was postponed. 
Discover the World on Your 
SEMESTER AT SEA 
Sails each September & February Combine accredited study with educational stops in Africa, Aus­tralasia and the Orient. Over 5000 students from 450 campuses have already experienced this interna­tional program. A wide range of financial aid is available. Write now for free catalog: 
lege, Box CC40, Orange, Cal. 92666 
US silent on new Isreali _reprisals 

... 

8 the observer Wednesday, October 18, 1972 
Success hasn't spoiled Creaney 
Mike Creaney admits that basically young football team. A history, one of the nicest com­success almost-but not quite­year ago, only the blocking was a pliments he claims he's been given spoiled him. "I was spoiled rotten constant. has been when people find it hard as a sophomore," Notre Dame's off the field to believe he's a
"Last year, I was not in a
senior tight end can say two full football player at all. "One of the
position where I thought I should
seasons later. "I was playing with most complimentary things for
say anything," Creaney admits.
an experienced offensive line, with me," he explains, "is when a everybody's All-American split "There were a lot of seniors on the person says, 'How can you be a end, Tom Gatewood, and with team, and I don't think anyone who football player away from the everybody's Heisman Trophy wasn't a senior would have been 
field. Most people just can't 

winner, Joe Theismann. Things listened to. When you throw the 
separate the person from the 

just went the way they were ball as little as we did last year, machine on the field.' They expect supposed to that year." other teams could put eight or nine the prototype--big, dumb, mean "But junior year," Creaney men on the line." and ugly. It san unusual thing, but 
continues, "we didn't have that four hours every Saturday af­
"No matter what I wanted to do,
same efficiency. We were bogged ternoon, you try to knock someone
there wasn't anything I could do if
down, mainly because of our down.Afterwards, you're sorry for 
I wasn't getting the ball. I know
general inexperience." him. I know there's an incongruity
Tom Gatewood felt much the same
''This year, there is more ex­there, but on the football field,
way--if he couldn't get the ball,
perience and much more talent to everyone has the same equipment
there was just no way he could 
go with it. I'm not playing super on and everyone knows the risks
lead."

football compared to last year, but involved." everyone is playing just a little bit "But this year, the situation is 
"I know what it takes to win on

better. It's that aggregate sum different. I'm one of the few 
the football field, and it takes 100

that adds up to 600 yards." Against seniors, and it would be wrong if I 
per cent dedication of the body and 

Purdue, he caught five passes for didn't say anything. There are so 
mind. But I -also know what it

114 yards and a touchdown, his many younger guys on the team 
takes to win off the field, and it's

best game statistics in 23 games and their enthusiasm is just in­for the Irish. But he was just as fectious. Eric Penick is just like a not the same thing. Every life 
situation isn't third and ten."

pleased with his performance ping pong ball in a corridor before against Northwestern a week and during a game." 
Creaney does not question his

earlier, even though the game plan "I never believed one person ability as a college tight end, but he called on him to be an anonymous could make all the difference in the is almost too honest with himself
blocking lineman rather than a world, but Tommy <Clements) has when considering his professional Tight Pnd Mike Creaney brings the ball uprield.
glamorous pass receiver. 
made all the difference. That's prospects.
''I don't care who does the job as taking nothing away from the
long as it gets done," Creaney "You have to talk reasonably 
Irish drop to eighth
offensive line, or nothing away
says. If we win and all I do is about pro football," he say. "I've
from Eric. But Tommy just has a
block, that's fine. If I catch a lot got pro height (6-4) and I probably Notre Dame, despite coming Ara Parseghian's Fighting Irish
super attitude. He really makes
of passes and we lose, what good is could keep pro weight, about 230 through with a strong second half back to the number eight slot.
everything go." 
it?" <he's 218 now), but I've only got showing in their 42-16 rout of Southern California, Oklahoma, 
Creaney has been doing a lot of Although Creaney himself has average speed and my physical Pittsburgh, dropped a notch in the and Alabama retained their 1-2-3 good by catching passes, blocking been complimented as one of the strength is below par. I've never eyes of the respective pollsters in ranking in both polls, though the and also exerting leadership on a best tight ends in Irish foootball been a physically strong football this week's A.P. and U.P.I. college Sooners again managed to nip off 
player. I've never felt you need some of the distance between
football rankings.
muscles in your ear lobes. It's themselves and the top-ranked
Louisiana State, runaway
more a matter of technique and Trojans. With a strong defensive
winners in their duel with
finesse" 

showing in their 27-0 win over
Stickmen tie Purdue 
Southeastern conference foe "I definitely feel I'm a good Auburn last Saturday night, moved Texas, Oklahoma cut the margin 
to a mere 18 points in the writer'scollege tight end. I'm big enough into the seventh spot, forcing coach 
by Andy Scantlebury O'Leary wants to give valuable poll, and moved to within 10 points
to block guys like <Purdue's)

playing time to the new men. of U.S.C. in the coaches' voting.
Keser, Baumgartner or Butz, but 

Ohio State held their fourthThe Notre Dame lacrosse team However, O'Leary is also con­they haven't really matured yet Sailors third
opened its fall season Sunday cerned about finding a position in the A.P. balloting, while 
either. We're all in the same boat.

afternoon with a 10-10 tie of Pur­replacement for Hoban, who It's something else to be going Notre Dame's sailing team ran Nebraska, coming off a 62-0 
due. The score is deceiving, graduates in December. against some 10-ayear All-Pro." into hard luck while taking a third slaughter of Missouri, <Irish op­
though, as coach Rich O'Leary ran place finish at last week's J. L. ponent in N.D. Stadium Saturdayeight middie lines and played the The goaliee situation raises Creaney is a psychology major, Hudson International Regatta in afternoon), edged ahead of un­regulars sparingly. another question. O'Leary has and although he has not ruled out Detroit. Unable to get a ride on beaten Michigan into the fifth spot. Senior Ed Hoban was the story three superb ones in Simmons, pro football, he has pretty well Friday, the team finally made it to The U.P.I. poll favored coach Bob 
on offense, hitting for a three-goal Roller, and Jim Lepley, and analyzed what he has gotten out of the sailing. site at Wayne State on Devaney's defending national "hat trick" against the inex­platooning them presents certain football. the Detroit River in time for ehampion Cornhuskers by boostingperienced Boilermaker defense. problems. Simmons and Roller "There's a time when you sit Saturday morning's first race. them into the number four slot, 
Hich Mullin, Dave Jurusik, Kevin shared the netminding chores last with O.S.U. and Michigan fifth and
back and say, 'That's enough, I've Kevin Hoyt and Bruce Marek
l<'ogerty, Mike Loughery, Pete spring, helping considerably in the sixth, respectively.
gotten what I wanted out of it. • I've sailed in "A" Division, and Willlrace, Jim Courtney, and "Fidel" Irish title of co-ehampions of the gotten an education, the friend-Donetan and Tom Matthews in,. " L.S.U. and Notre Dame are 
Volpe added the other Irish tallies. Midwest club division. seventh and eighth, with Colorado,
ships, the team concepts. Maybe "B" Division. Their performance:­Senior goalies Paul Simmons and The travel Weststickmen to l've gotten enough out of it and it's were good enough to put them in UCLA, and Tennessee sharing the 
Jim Roller were both perfect in the Lafayette this Sunday for a return time to get out." first place after Saturday's action 9-10-11 rankings. Auburn, number nets as the stickmen led, 7-0, going engagement with Purdue. They in a field comprised of six nine a week ago, fell to the 15th into the final periods. conclude their fall season with the But not too quickly of course. American and five Canadian position, and Texas, lOth last week, 
Winning is not the major ob­annual Alumni game, October There's still a season of offensive teams. dropped out to 14th in the A.P., and jective in the fall season since 28th, on Cartier Field. efficiency ahead. Sunday brought bitter disap-out of the U.P.I. voting entirely. pointment for the Irish, though, as The rankings: t the protest committee reversed an
Huff gets game ball for Pitt effor earlier decision, and disqualified AP PoH 
Hoyt and Marek from the previous 
Tilt> Top Twt>nly l9ams. with first· day's Race 7A. This added ten plact' votes in parent+lesis, st'ason re­
Fullback Andy Huff led the way 
cords and total points. Potnts tgbulatt>d
points to the N.D. score, which
among the weekly Irish football 
on basis ol 20· 18-16·14-10· award winners at Monday af­eventually proved to be the ~g. 7·6-f>-4-:1-2-1. deciding margin between first and I. Southern Cahlornia (28) 6-0 948
ternoon's practice. Huff, a 5-11, 212 
2. Oklahom~ (20) 40 930
third.

lb. senior from Toledo , Ohio, 3. Alabama s-o 6!19
Donetan, with four firsts in nine
received the game ball for his 4. Oluo State (I) +0 607 races, took low point "B" honors, S. Nebraska 4-1 601
efforts in last weekend's game 
6. Michigan (I) >O 545
while Hoyt sailed well, despite the 
against Pittsburgh. Carrying the 7. Louisiana Stale S.O 522 disqualification which ruined his 8. Notre Dame 4-0 473
ball six times fl)r a total of 30 
9. Colorado >I 288
chances of taking low "A" awards.
hard-earned yards, he also crossed 10. Tennessee 4-1 2511
Toronto took first place, with
the goal line three times, making II. UCLA S.l 2M 
Queens of Canada a close second. 12. Penn State 4-1 IH3
him leading Irish scorer for the UIO
The Irish finished far and away the 13. Stanlord 4-1 
year <six touchdowns, and 36 14. Texas :1-1 87 
pointsl. best of the six American squads. 15. Auburn 4-1 82 AI Constants and Mike Dooley 16. Air Force >O 73 
17. Arkansas 4-1 33
Hecognized as Saturday's out­meanwhile sailed in the 18. Washington >1 %5 standing players on offense and singlehanded regatta at the 19. Arizona Slate 4-1 21 
20. Iowa State :1-1 14
defense were split-end-tackle Dave University of Wisconsin at 
Others receiving votes, listed alpha·Casper and linebacker Drew Madison. betic ally: Florida 9tate, Indiana, Louis· ville. North Carolina. Purdue
Mahalic. Casper caught a six-yard Scheduled for this weekend is the pass from Tommy Clements in his University of Iowa Davis Cup first period stint as the injured Regatta, followed by next Willie Townsend's replacement, weekend's Ohio State event.· Also UPIPoll then shifted back to his regular left on that weekend, the Irish will 
Tilt> UnitPd Press International top
tackle spot for the remainder of the represent the Midwest Collegiate 
major college lootball teams with first 
game, aiding measurably in Sailing Association in the Douglas place votes and won-lost records in opening sizable holes for Irish Cup Match Race Series at Long pan>nthest's: 
Pelnts
runners. Beach, California. Hoyt, Marek, 
I. Southern Cal (22) (6-0) .334
Neil Barth, and John Maus will be 2. Oklahoma (12) (4-0) .324.. Mahalic made a key in­making the trip, Notre Dame's 3. Alabama (I) (f>-0) . .%32 
4. Sebraska (4-1) .. .207
terception, the second week in a first appearance in this important 189
5. Ohio State (4-0).

row that a stolen aerial has all but intercollegiate regatta. 6. Michigan (f>-0) . .171 decided the outcome. With the The sailing club is still looking 7. Louisiana State ( S.O) .. 17t 
8. Notre Dame (4-0) .. . .. 131
Panthers driving towards a for new members, with five 2!1
9. UCLA (Sol) .. 

possible go-ahead touchdown Andy Hufr's three touchdown efrort earned him the~ ame ball. regattas left, and sailing on St. Joe 10. Colorado (Sol) . Tl II. Tennessee (4-1).
midway through the third stanza, Senior defensive end Tom Receiving mention as prep squad Lake till at least Thanksgiving. If .. 211 
12. Stanford (4-1) ..... . Ill
I sophomore Mahalic pulled down a Freistroffer also picked off an players of the week were halfback you are interested, meetings are 13. Penn State (4-1) 11 I John Hogan pass and raced 56 errant Hogan fling, meriting a Bob McGreevey on offense, and held on Wednesdays at 6:30PM in 14. Air Foret' (f>-01 9 
IS. Auburn (4-1) ... 8
yards to the winning touchdown. helmet star, as did Mah~llic. lineman Bob Johnson on defense. room 204, Engineering Building. 
u. Arizona State (4-1)

~ .. 2 







