
On The Inside 
National antiwar protests stir violence ... page 5 
Ben Zero returns to An Tostal ... page 7 

serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Friday, April 21, 1972
Vol. VI, No. 114 


Why the anxious look on his face? Why the great urgency to hit his target? Turn to page three and find out. 

Strike, protests scheduled today 
by Mary Romer 

Plans for l<'riday's strike and Vietnam war protest 
were outlined at an afternoon meeting yesterday in La 
Fortune's Fiesta Lounge. 

Activities will begin on the J!lain quad at 10:30 a.m. 
with Mass, concelebrated by Fathers Burrell, Toohey, 
Amen, and Griffin. The entrance rite, featuring 
reflections of several people on the war, will be 
followed by a short liturgy and a homily to bedelivered 
by Dr. William Storey of the N.D. Theology Depart­
ment. According to protest leaders, the rationale 
behind the Mass is: "Not only are people dying in 
Vietnam. but we, too, are dying -here in America and 
at Notre Dame-by letting these deaths continue." 
Immediately following the Mass Ox Pedal will play 
on thequadthrough the lunch hour. Students are urged 
to show support of the strike by fasting all day Friday. 
The speaker program will begin at 1:00 p.m., in­
cluding Allen Ginsberg, visiting poet and speaker at 
the Sophomore Literary Festival, Marice Nagu of the 
Michiana Coalition for Peace and~ Justice; and Dr. 
John Houck of the College of Business Administration. 
At.3:00 a group of N.D. and St. Mary's students will 
meet on the main quad to begin a march to Leeper 
Park where they will join with students from IUSB, 
South Bend High school students and South Bend 
residents. Demonstrations will continue downtown to 
the FBI offices. Government buildings, Post Office, 
and the Draft and Recruiting offices. Those interested 
in marching are asked to bring signs and placards with 
them and to obey all traffic rules since the group has no 
parade permit. 

Allen Ginsberg will lecture again Friday night at 
8::~0 in Washington Hall. Accompanying him will be 
anti-war poetry readings and guerilla theater. 
Lincoln Soldati, who headed yesterday's meeting, 
emphasized that the strike effort will not end with 
today's activities, but will be continued in other forms. 
The Mock Convention next week will be one vehicle for 
continuing the protest. 

,In case of rain all activities prior to the demon­
stration downtown will be moved to the Student Center. 
Father Hesburgh has as yet made no comment on the 
student strike, but is expected to release a statement 
today at 1:00 p.m. 

Pre-Ined prograin prepares well 
the student's view 
. . . see page 9 
Kersten: SLC may be eliminated 
The Student Life Council,a five-year old tri-partite legislative committee created to deal with student affairs, almost lost its student representation for next year. R. Calhoun Kersten. student body president, and Floyd Kezele, SIC vice-chairman yesterday suggested that the SLC be replaced by faculty and student representation on the Board of Trustees. Until students and faculty are represented on the Board, the 
SLC would continue. 
Kersten considered cancelling next week's student election after a poll was released Thursday morning revealing much discontent among SLC members with the present Council's organization and future. 
commissioners to serve 
According to the proposed constitution for the Notre Dame student body, eight commissioners will be elected to serve as the top administrators of student government and SLC representatives. Both Kezele and Kersten hope that any student representation on the Board will come from this group. 
!<'acuity Senate President Thomas S\"artz confirmed yesterday that the faculty would elect its represen­tatives to the Council next Thursday as planned. Earlier this we.ek, he appointed an ad-hoc committee to recruit faculty nominations for the post since not enough nominations were received. 
Administrative representatives are appointed. 
At the next Council meeting, Kezele will introduce a resolution endorsing the faculty's request for representation on the Board of Trustees. In his resolution, he will also ask for similar student representation on the governing board. 
couldn't change own by-laws 
·'The SLC should not continue and cannot continue in 
its present form. It has increasingly refused to assert 
itself. It has allowed itself on many issues to become a 
rubber stamp," Kezele said. 
"Any body which cannot change its own by-laws when the need is there and has become so stagnant does not deserve to continue. It was supposed to bring all three segments together -administrators, students and faculty -however the people there are not responsive. SLC resolutions were rejected, overruled or pooh-poohed all this year," he complained. 
John Barkett, former student body president, agrees that the SLC needs overhaul, but would not dissolve the group. He believes that the membersip should be reduced from 24 to 12,have fewer meetings and have an increased workload. 
Questioned on the effectiveness of this year's SLC, William Eagan, chairman, responded, "So far this year there has been no general agreement among the members the SLC on its function. Over the long term, however. much of what the students have today is the result of the SLC . . . the liberalization of hall regulations. the ability to have cars on campus. To a large extent. student representation on the Academic Cc,uncil and the College Council reflects the ad­ministration's appraisal of having students on the SLC." 

slc effe.ctiveness 'minimal' 
"The SLC should be continued until somebody comes up with something better. I question the advisability of dropping something which has been effective in the past for nothing. The opponents have yet to offer an alternative," he said. 
David Tusher. off-campus student representative, supported the move to withdraw student represen­tation from the SLC. "Its effectiveness if anything is minimal. People go in there with too many precon­cieved ideas. It just wastes too much time on things like grammatical construction. The only positive effect I can think of is the last recommendation of the judiiclal system. But. then. we didn't discuss whether or not it would be put into action." Tushar recom­mended some type of representative committee with students and trustees. 
John Cullen, chairman of the Planning Committee 
and North Quad rep, agreed the Council didn't ac­
complish mcuh. "Meetings just broke down into 
arguments on wording and parliamentary procedure. 
1 think we need some kind of SLC but I wish it could act 
like the Academic Council and not be subject to 
.'omebody's veto. It's like spinning your wheels." 



Friday, April 21, 1972
the observer 



Ylorld briefs 
((') 1!172 New York Times 

Paris---North Vietnam's chief negotiator at the Paris peace talks, formally proposing a resumption of the talks on April27, indicated tha an end of American attacks on his country was not a condition for resuming thenegotiations. Xuan Thuy, the Hanoi representative, also released his side's records of the talks leading to the 1968 "understanding". 
Washington---In a 58 page report presented to President Nixon, a Presidential panel on Nonpublic Education recommended that the Federal Government act on a variety of fronts to reduce private and parochial schools. The panel argued that aid to parents, rather than to the schools, could well be judged constitutional. 
Washington---House Democrats met at a party caucus and voted 144 to 58 to direct the House Foriegn Affairs Committee to draw legilslation providing for prompt termination of the American involvement in the Indochina war---subject only to the relel\st of prisoners of war. Their resolution called recent bombings of North Vietnam a "dangerous escalation" and also denounced North Vietnam's invasion of the South. 
Washington---Despite the troubles in space, the House overwhelmingly approved funds for the Space Agency's multi-billon dollar space shuttle program. Among the 60 dissenters were some congressmen who con­tended that the project could end up costing 60 billon dollars. Passage by the Senate is expected to be all but routine. 
New York---Twelve men and six corporations were indicted on 540 counts of wholesale promotion of obscene material in the city, ending a four month long investigation that included the brief--and unprofitable­operation by undercover policemen of a dirty book store on Eight Avenue. 
on campus today 
friday  
10:30  ..  requiem mass,  main quad,  notre  
dame.  
1:00  -·  mass  for peace,  stapleton lounge,  
smc.  

1:00 --speakers; a lien ginsberg, maurec nagu, dr. john houck, main quad. 
3:30 --lecutre, jay newgeboren, soph lit festiva I 
6:00 --meeting, tennessee state delegation, fiesta lounge. 
6:30 --meeting, arkansas delegation, breen­phillips lounge. 
7:30--square dance, international students assoc., Iafortune ballroom. 
8:30 -· poetry, allen ginsberg, soph lit festival, washington hall. 
saturday 
8:00 
--party, gsu, carroll hall, $1. 

8:00 
& 10:00 --film, mad dogs and english­men, engineering auditorium. 


sunday 
1:00 
--meeting, rules committee, mock convention, 127 nieuwland. 

1:00 
-meeting, platform committee, student center amphitheatre, lst floor Iafortune. 


2:00 -meeting, credentials committee, room 123 nieuwland. 
8:00 & 10:00--film, mad dogs and english­men, engineering auditorium. 

Hall life aspects dominate SAC meeting 
by Bill McGinn 
The second meeting this year of the Student Affairs Committee was held yesterday April 20th at the Continuing Education Center. The Committee is composed of seven Notre Dame Trustees (Dr. Tom Carey, Jack Schneider, Jerry Van Gorkin, Paul Hellmuth, Fr. Blantz, Mr. I<'accenda, and Dan Canale), 
and four  students:  Bob  Weaver,  
John  Barkett,  Jim  O'Hara,  and  
Tim I<'eeley.  

The Committee heard reports by Bob Higgins and John Barkett, as well as participating in discussions with the hall presidents and several rectors. 
Bob Higgins, the Hall Life Commissioner, delivered a report on the need for renovation to make residence halls more liveable. Barkett reported that the Trustees' reaction was generally favorable to this report, and added that the Committee toured La Fortune Student Center. They concluded 
111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 


Erratum 
Two errors appeared in yesterday's Observer concerning the protest planning meeting at Regina Hall. 
The SMC Student Government strongly supports the enumerated proposals in their statement and feels they would be most effective. 
Also, SBP Jean Seymour was quoted as attributing telephone tax to financing white phosphorous. This statement was made by another student at the meeting. 
111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 


Reproduction forum is slated 
A seven man panel of Notre Dame students, members of the College of Science's in­terdisciplinary Undergraduate Scientist Program, will give a presentation on Friday April 21st at 8 P.M. in the Galvin Life Sciences Building. The group has chosen as a topic for discussion Human Reproduction: Fertility Control and Its Problems, and has decided to present as a public service some of the scientific dimensions of the contemporary problem. The students have in­vestigated the scientific aspects of anti-conception since the begin­ning of this semester. They will answer any questions related to their discussion after the illustrated presentation. All in­terested persons are invited. 

that "there was need for im-Indiana statutes. provement." The hall presidents Hectors Mulcahy, Chambers, exchanged their ideas on the Boyle. Amen, Presley and c::rection of hall life with members Flanigan discussed hall life from of the Committee. their viewpoint. Parietals, as 
During the closed morning and usual. were a discussion topic. afternoon sessions, the Student I<'r. Maurice Amen commented Affairs Committee discussed that rectors felt that "it is not many aspects of student life, in-desirous to go around and actively eluding drinking and the use of seek out violators." 
refrigerators. The Trustees Fr. Amen advised that parietal maintained the same views as regulations were not changed, and Brother Kiernan Ryan -that that when violations were brought refrigerators over 4.6 cubic feet to their attention, the rectors will be banned. Drinking in public would be willing to do something. rooms was declared an im-The rectors agreed that they have possibility due to the existing to rely upon student government 
IllIIIIIIll11111111111111111111111111111111111111 lllllllllllnllllllllllllllllII11111111111111111111111111111IIIllIIIIIIll 
Faculty statement on the war 
We the undersigned vehemently oppose and condemn the resumption of the bombing and the escalation of the war in VietNam. We urge support by the whole ND community including students, faculty, administration and staff for the upcoming anti-war activities this Friday. We strongly believe that one of the most im­portant activities that the university can provide at this moment is an understanding of the means and purposes practiced by our government in carrying on and intensifying this immoral war. 
John Huber 
English 
Jim Doubleday 
English 
Ed Fink 
Sociology 
Julian Samora 
Sociology 
Maurice Amen 
Theology 
PNV 
Flanner Rector 
Dave Burrell esc Philosophy-Theology Asst Rector Grace 
Robert Griffin esc 
Campus Ministry 
Keenan Rector 
L Saye esc 
Cavanaugh rector 
Ernest Sandeen 
English 
Kenneth Jameson 
Economics David Dodge Sociology 

William Storey Theology 
Fr. John Dunne Theology 
Peter Smith Math SMC 
Dennis Dugan 
Economics 
Charles Allen Metallurgy 
Prof Rathburn English 
Prof Trubac Finance and Bus. Econ. 
Prof Eliel Chern 

Prof Wm McGienn Physics 
Prof. Jemielity English 
IIJLIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII!Iffilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll_llllllllllllllllllllllli 

'~~\'. ~ ~.."!!,.~ ~~~­
~~ Germ an Food
1 
'1 

1 Our Specialty 
Created with Old World Atmosphere. Specializing in German and American Foods. 
Open 10:30 a.m. to 10:30 p.m. 
.-Closed Sundays and Holidays South Bends Finest Banquet Rooms ThP Alpine & Bavarian Rooms 
'----------------------~ 
for "the good operation of the educational experience which halls." occurs in the halls. 
The importance of section Former SBP John Barkett and 
leadership in the halls was also SBVP Orlando Rodriguez con­discussed. The rectors recom­cluded with a summary of their mended that the RAS serve more term. than a mere disciplinary function. Themes of this meeting will be 
Much time was given to the presented to the Board of Trustees discussion of the general at their meeting on May 11th. 





Ma Vino 
IS coming 
Alumni Club 
presents 



Vodka Night. 
TONIGHT All Vodka drinks half price 7:00 -12:00 
BAR CLOSED SAT. 

Saturday, April 22, SB Armory, 9 to 1 An Tostal Irish Wake Advance ticket Sales only! Limited Ticket Supply $3.00 per couple only 
Buses leave Circle:  8:30, 8:50,  
9:10, 9:30  
Tickets on sale  

Thurs. in Dining Halls and the Huddle at Noon 2 bands unlimited refreshments (It will NOT be a 50/s party) 


(THE OBSERVER.) 
I International News 
Friday, April 21, 1972 Page 3 
U.S.. N. Viet vessels exchange fire in Tonkin Gulf face~ff 
\cl Nl'w York Times 1972 

Saigon. Friday, April 21---Another encounter between North Vietnamese and American naval vessels in the Gulf of Tonkin was reported yesterday by the United states Command. 
In a delayed report, the Command said two high-speed North Viet­namese patrol boats were fired upon early Monday by the U.S. destroyer Hamner off the coat of North Vietnam's panhandle. One of the boats was believed sunk, the Command said, and the other was believed damaged. 
This incident and an attack by North Vietnamese MIG aircraft and patrol boars on American warships reoted Wednesday are cited by U.S. military analysts as evidence that North Vietnam has now begun to challenge the Americans directly in the Gulf of Tonkin for the first time since 1964. 
They have been able to do this, the analysts say, partly because American naval bombardment ofcoastal defense radar and artillery sites has been suspended from 1968 until recently and partly because it was decided in Hanoi sometime in the last year to use the MIG's more ad­
by John Noble Wilford 
(c) 1972 New York Times 
Houston, April 20-After hours of uncertainty and concern, trouble­beset Apollo 16 finally got the go-ahead and descended to a delayed but successful landing among the mountains of the moon at about 9:23p.m., 
E.S.T. tonight. 

Capt. John W. Young of the Navy and Lt. Col. Charles M. Duke of the Air Force steered their landing craft, Orion, to a sinooth touchdown on a rolling plateau surrounded by mountains, craters and volcanic-like terrain. 
Their landing-the nation's fifth in three years--was delayed nearly six hours when the command ship, piloted by Lt. Comdr. Thomas K. Mat­tingly 2nd of the Navy developed erratic oscillations of its rocket engine. These were caused by a malfunction in the spacecraft's secondary guidance system. 
Because of the delay, Young and Duke postponed until tomorrow morning their first planned excursion outside the landing craft. They are expected to begin exploring the surface at 11:30 a.m. E.S.T. 
The astronauts were never in any immediate danger. But for a time, as they discussed their problem calmly with Mission Control, it was feared that the lunar landing might have to be cancelled. 
Cancellation would have been necessary so that the lunar landing craft, still fully fueled, could have rejoined the command ship in lunar orbit and provided the rocketpower for an emergency return to earth. Even though the command ship's primary guidance system worked perfectly, mission control does not like to have astronauts circling the moon with a potentially crippled vehicle. 
The situation was not as serious as the crisis of Apollo 13 in April, 1970, when the lunar module served as the "life raft" for the return of astronauts after an explosion ripped their command ship. But the suspense was gripping, nonetheless, as flight controllers sat tensely before their consoles and engineers huddled in the back rooms over spacecraft plans. 
A quick examination of the engineering data from the spacecraft and from simulations of the problem here at the manned spacecraft center led space agency officials to order the continuation of the landing plans. They determined that even if the command ship had to use its back-up guidance system and the problem recurred, the oscillations would not be sufficient to cause structural damage to the spacecraft. 
Christopher C. Kraft. director of the manned spacecraft center, an­nounced the decision shortly after 7 p.m. E.S.T .The news was im­mediately relayed to the astronauts as they came around from behind the moon on their 15th revolution. 
"You're go for landing," Mission control told Apollo 16. There was no immediate reply from the astronauts, until they were 
asked if they were ready to receive the revised landing instructions. "I'm all ears," Duke said. The problems cropped up as Young and Duke were preparing to fire the 
lunar module's descent rocket for landing, which was originally scheduled for 3:41p.m. E.S.T. 
As they checked out the lunar module's systems, mattingly was sup­posed to fire the 20,500-pound thrust rocket in the rear of the command ship. The rocket, with a swiveled nozzle, is located in the service module. It is the same rocket that is used to thrust the space ship into and out of lunar orbit. 
The purpose of the planned firing was to circularize the command ship's orbit of the moon. From this position, Mattingly is to wait while the other two astronauts are on the moon. In checking the guidance system before the maneuver, Mattingly said that the primary system worked properly, but the secondary unit, the stabilization and control system, developed an oscillation in the Yaw Gimbal. This meant that the bell­shaped nozzle was turning left and right in an erratic manner. 
The guidance system acts as a tiller, electronically turning the gimbal to move the nozzle and thus direct the thrust vector--the direction of the rocket firing. 
Can the King really walk on water like he says? Notre Dame and St. Mary's students await with bated breath for an An Tosta I league pitcher to put him to the test... 
...and he fails. Too little 
faith? 

venturously than before, in conjunction with the communist offensive in the South. 
Precisely when the North Vietnamese began their new moves is not entirely clear because the U.S. Navy and the Command in Saigon began reporting them only this week. However the latest sequence of events aPJ•ears to be this: 
--At 3:55 A.T' unday, while U.S. B-52's and fighter-bombers were engaged in raw" near Haiphong Har!lor, North Vietnamese patrol boats moved out into the Tonkin Gulf toward the guided missile frigate Worden. 
·frigate was fired on by mistake by American planes flying overhead, '-"ld one sailor was killed and nine were injured by two air-to-ground missiles at first thought to have been fired from enemy torpedo boats. ---Early Monday morning, off the North Vietnamese coast between the demilitarized zone and the 20th parallel, the destroyer Hamner fired on two high-speed North Vietnamese patrol boats in the incident repoted today. One of the boats disappeared from te Hamner's radar screens under fire and was believed sunk. The other was said to have raced around erratically and was believed damaged. 
--One the same day the guided missile destroyer Buchanan was hit by North Vietnamese retaliatory fire as it was firing at targets in the lower panhandle. One crewman was killed and seven were wounded, and the ship put into harbor in Danang for repairs. 
---At 5 p.m. Wednesday, two North Vietnamese supersonic MIG fighter­bombers dashed out past the coast over a group of American warships­the cruiser Oklahom City, Vice Adm. William P. Mack's Seventh Fleet Flagship, and the destroyers Higbee and Lloyd Thomas-that were bombarding costal defense sites 20 miles north of the Demilitarized Zone. A bomb from one of the planes scored a direct hit on the after gun turret of the Higbee, wounding three sailors and destroying the gun mount. Another ship, the guided missile frigate Sterett, show to down a MIG with a Terrier missile and also fired on North Vietnamese patrol boats in the area, sinking two of them. 


the observer Friday, April 21, 1972 
Symposium criticizes education 

by Stt>ve Lazar 
In a wide-ranging, anything but 
esoteric symposium yesterday, poets Robert Duncan, Allen Gin­sberg and Diane Wakoski "talked to each other" before an overflow audience in the Library 
Auditorium. 
Master of ceremonies, Dan 
O'Donnell. opened the discussion 
with a question on the relationship 
between a University education 
and the practice of poetry. 
Returning again and again to this 
topic of Academia, the poets first 
of all discussed whether their 
educations were beneficial or 
harmful to their growth as poets. 
Stating that he discovered early 
that he would not learn to write 
poetry in the University, Robert 
Duncan explained how he dropped 
out of school. but returned to study 
his true interest: human history. 
Duncan stated that "all education 
d(les is tell you shouldn't read this 
and Y'lU should read that." On the 
qucshon of learning to write 
poetry, Duncan proposed an 
alternative to th educational 
system: 
"An august poet, Ben Johnson, 
tells you exactly how to learn to be 
a poet: pick the biggest, most 
wonderful poetry you can imagine, 
strive to write it; call it brother 
and name yourself as belonging to 
it; and don't chicken out because it 
doesn't look like brother. Realize 
that you've been called and you 
really are of that order, and then 
your other orders ... No university 
knows that. I mean they give you a 
model or something, and you 
actually belong to a family." 
Duncan summarized the true 
benefit of his college years by 
stating that during that time he 
met the members and character of 
his own generation. 
With a different point of view on 
the academy, Diane Wakoski 

l *mock convention '72 
Democratic chairman O'Brien to highlight Mock Convention 
A quadrennial highlight on the University of Notre Dame campus since its inception in 1940, the Mock Political Convention will convene Monday <April 24 > with general sessions in Stepan Center open to the public without charge. 
The national chairman of the Democratic Party, Lawrence O'Brien, will give the keynote talk to more than 1.000 student ddegates on Tuesday night, and Allard Lowenstein. chairman of Americans for Democratic Action and a congressional candidate from New York, will speak Wednesday night. The convention normally centers on contenders representing the party out of 
'ower. f<~f'forts are being made to :~ave the winning presidential ·andidate address the group by ,~:lephone on Thursday night. 
Six convention sessions, with ,..vening meetings through Thur­.;day at 7 and afternoon sessions Tuesday and Wednesday at 2:30, will closely follow rules for the national conventions. Hepresentatives from the 55 state and territorial delegations will be appointed to platform, rules and credentials committees, and nomination demonstrations will be limited. 
Each of the present Democratic candidates will be represented by delegates at the convention. At least some of the delegates for­merly pledged to Mayor Lindsay or Sen. Hartke are reportedly attempting to start a "Draft Ted Kennedy" movement. 
Eric Andrus, student chairman from Sacramento, Cal., said copies of the Notre Dame platform, 

The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556, second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
stated: "I feel like college is just like anything else for a poet today; it's all a question of the will. In a 
sense we use whatever we do; and maybe in a sense my attitude towards poetry is almost fatal; and maybe I have the same fatalistic attitude toward life. But I don't mean that in the nineteenth century sense of fatalism; I simply mean that in some way we accept the life that's given to us and come to terms with it in whatever human way is possible. And I don't see how anything could ever destroy a writer, because what he's doing is coming to terms with what life is all about; and maybe that destruction is part of it. Probably by coming to terms with it -writing about it-whatever else he does -it won't destroy him. I don't see how a university experience could be different from that." 
Ms. Wakoski said that the real experiences of life have nothing to do with the academy or the office or anything official or institutional. 
"But that's everybody's lesson and I don't think the poet is any diferent," she said. 
Allen Ginsberg related a tale to the audience of how he was once suspended from Columbia University for writing obscenities on a dusty window. Later, when he began to work on a novel for a 



GOP Decides to Move 
(l') J!li2 New York Times Washington. April 20---The Republican Party has decided to shift its national convention from San Diego, Calif., to Miami Beach, Fla., according to Miami Beach officials. Richard L. Herman, Vice Chairman of the Republican arrangements committee, was understood to have agreed with Miami Beach officials that the convention would be moved, to Miami Beach. It is now scheduled to open Aug. 14, instead of Aug. 21, as originally planned for San Diego. 
1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111nl 
All state delegation chairman should call a meeting of their state delegations for Sunday evening. Mock Convention cha·irman Eric Andrus announced that they must still pass out the delegates cards and passes. 
These are necessary for admittance in to the con­vention. The Sunday night meetings are for the distribution of the material. All state chairmen should contact Eric Andrus at 6244 for the cards and further information. 
1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
representing as it does students vention was originated by Dr. Paul 
from every state in the nation, Bartholomew. professor of 
should prove to be one of the government, as a class project. He 
will be serving his ninth term as faculty advisor at this year's conclave. 
convention's major ac­complishments. Copies of this report drafted by the 82 members of the committee will be prepared for all delegates to the Miami onvention. 
Presidential nominations and balloting is scheduled for Wed­nesday night. The selection of a vice presidential candidate is planned for Thursday night. 
The Notre Dame mock con-

SWEENEY'S 
Sweatshirts are in Last order this year 

Wanted: Applicants for Student Union Services Commission 
Qualifications: Good worker, enthusiastic, mirthful 
Pay: Starts at a million dollars with rapid advancement. 
Apply at Student Union Office (7757) or call Walt at 234 5566 
writing class which dealt with his own experiences and those of a friend of his who had been jailed, the college dean forced him to suppress the work because it contained references to homosexuality. 
Ginsberg stated: "The point of all this discourse is that any literary activity that I found valid at Columbia in the mid 40's was banned from campus. The 
custodians of the literary order wPrP the enGmies of exploration, the enemies of composition, the enemies of companionship, the enemies of literary com­
'panionship, and went so far as to d~lare Kerouac, who was my tead\er and is a major American poet an_d prose writer to be an unwholesome influence on students. I don't think that situation has changed in the American Universities." Gin­sberg went ol\ to say that in the last 5 years a large number of teachers who have been involved in some form of social or spiritual activism have been pushed out of positions of power and influence in the universities. He concluded from his own experiences that the university is not a very "en­couraigng" place for artists. 
On the subject of where does a 
person go -to the classroom, workshop or otherwise -when he wants to learn to write poetry, Robert Duncan suggested that the educational system has many limitations. He felt that classroom and workshop endeavors to write poetry were harmful because they generally imposed deadlines for the completion of the works. "A poem shouldn't be a pro.iect that you turn in like a blue book:' said Dunca. He did admit, however, that a classroom writing • ex­perience could give a young poet exercise in learning to handle language. 
Diane Wakoski suggested that although the University "may not have fostered poetry in the best sense" it did provide a forum for poets and the best audience for poetry, which is available in this country, 

The New Personal Size Car With Big Car Ride. 
see Metro our purchase for college 

Duncan agreed that the university often does bring poets 
, together, but he maintained that the only wav a man learns poetry is from another poet. Oftentimes, he stated, poet-teachers are not to be found at universities, and he cited his won experiences where he had to hitchike a great distance to visit poet Ezra Pound. 
Allen Ginsberg also made a similar "pilgrimage" recently, this time to Australia to visit Aborigine "songmen". Explaining that the songmen maintain one of the oldest poet traditions in the world, with verse forms going back to 8 to 10 thousand years, 9!nsberg told how he went to them to learn about poetry. He demonstrated their technique by keeping time 
(Continued on page 12) 
Urban Studies Evening 
Monday, April 24 7:30p.m. Room 103 O'Shaughnessy 
Work study for academic credit 

2. 
Urban studies seminar 

3. 
Urban studies double maior 

4. 
Urban studies certificate 


---~-~------------­

Friday, April 21, 1972 the observer
Nationwide antiwar demonstrations 
Campus protesters cause alarm 

<c> New York Times 1972 
New York Aprii20---Gov. Marvin Mandel declared a state of emergency at the !University of Maryland tonight after three days of antiwar disturbances and violence an-d sent National Guardsmen onto the College Park campus to enforce an overnight 
curfew. 
In Dayton, Ohio, the police arrested 125 demonstrators and used tear gas to disperse a crowd of 500 protestors who had formed human chains to block the gates of the Wright Patterson Air Force Base. 
In Washington, a coalition of antiwar leaders supported by more than 20 U.S. Senators and Representatives called for a 11.atinwide moratorium on May 4--­the-second annivesary of the fatal shooting of four Kent State University students--to protest the escalation of the war in Indochina. 
At Columbia Unjversity here, student demonstrators swarmed into a closed meeting of the University Senate, forcing its suspension, after the Universuty had summoned the police to take action against students for the first time since the rioting there in 1968. 
Responding to this, William J. McGill, President of the University ordered all classes suspended at to Robinson. He cited the creation 

Senior class elections 

of the Provost's office, and the seating of students on several bodies such as the Academic Council as de facto changes not
Voting next week 
Senior Class President Tom Pifferetti announced today that class elections will be held next week. All candidates for office must pick up a petition in the student government office starting at 8:00 a.m. Monday, April 24. Candidates must gather fifty names on the petition and return it by 5:00 p.m. Tuesday April 25 in order to be placed on the ballots. 
The campaign will begin at 6:00 Tuesday night and end at mignight 
Two ND profs to appear on panel for retardation 
Dr. Harvey Bender, professor of biology at the University of Notre Dame. will chair a panel on the rights of the mentally retarded at the Indiana Association for Retarded Children Annual Program Convention at Purdue University Friday. 
Also appearing on the panel will be Charles Murdock, associate professor of law. Murdock teaches a course on "Mental Retardation and the Law." 
Bender explained that the panel will explore legal, social, educational and employment rights of the mentally retarded, and hopes the discussions will help definethe readth and scope of the complex problem which affects over 6 million retarded in the country. "After all," Bender said, "other minority groups can ar­ticulate their own concerns. But who speaks for the retarcled? Tney're a very unvocal group." 
FACULTY NOTICE 
The Faculty Manual CommitTee will continue to welcome written recommendations for the revision of the FACULTY MANUAL until April 25th, 1972~ These recom­mendations should be submitted to Prof. James Robinson. These revisions may concern either the present FACULTY MANUAL or the proposed changes to the MANUAL found in N D Report No. 15. 
The Committee report will be made to the Faculty Senate on Thursday, Apr 27 at 7:30pm in the Aud. of the Center for Continuing Education. The Faculty at large is encouraged to attend this meeting. 
(Signed) The Executive Com~ mittee of the Faculty Senate. 

the university tomorrow. 
Elsewhere across the country. indignation over the renewed U.S. bombing of North Vietnam generated continued demon­strations and rallies at numerous college campuses and military installations, and more protests were planned for tomorrow and the weekend. 
There were a number of arre;;ts and scattered reports of minor injuries,but today's demon­strations were generally peaceful, taking the form of picket lines, rallies, class boycotts and statements of dissent. Students and political figures were at the forefront of most of the ex­pressions of protest. 
At the University of Maryland, 

where police using tear gas and 
armored antiriot vehicles had 
routed 2,000 demonstrators blocking U.S. Route 1 in the early morning housr, Governor Mandel proclaimed a state of emergency imposed a 9 p.m. to 7 a.m. curfew and activated over 800 Guardsmen to patrol the 36,000 student cam­
pus. 

The order, following scores of arrests, pitched battles between the plice and stuuents and an effort ' to set fire to a Reserve Officers Training Corps Armory was ac­companied by a tough statement by thP Governor, who declared: 
"I'm fed up with this violence and destruction of public and private property, nd I fully intend to see that it ends." The demon­stration at Wright-Patterson Air Force base involved mainly students from Ohio colleges. They formed chains at two of the Base's five gates and refused police or­ders to disperse. Tear gas and the mass arrest of 125 persons dispersed the protestors,but many base employees were delayed getting to work. 
While students on numerous college campuses planned strikes and class boycotts for tomorrow,a coalition of antiwar leaders and Congressmen called a news con­ference in Washington to announce that May 4 moratorium. The moratorium would, as planned, encompass a wide range of ac­tivities, including rallies students boycotts and; as in the massive nationwide moratorium of Oct. 15, 1969--the wearing of black arm bands. 
The g ~Sup announcing the day of protest include Senators Fred R. Harris of Oklahoma and Mike Gavel of Alaska. both Democrats Representatives Paul H. McCloseky, R-Calif., and Bella M. 
Robinson details Faculty Manual revisions 
mittee, however, will continue to accept written proposals for revision of the manual until April 25, Robinson reported. On April 27th it will be submitted again to the Faculty Senate. From there it will be considered by the Academic Council, who, if they pass it, will submit it to the Board of Trustees, who have final ap­proval over the revisions. 
VOLUNTEERS 
(FRONTIER APOSTULATEl 
needs teachers. tradesmen, office ;md kitchen help, nurses. One thousand have shared since 1956. Long hours, hard work, no pay. '.Room and board plus S25 month.) 
Accept. challenge of missionary diocese: Bring faith and love; find hope, fulfillment. Write today. Bishop Fergus O'Grady, 

present proposed revisions.
by Mike Baum Article Five of the presentThe proposed revision of the Mnaual provides that it (theFaculty Manual drew inspiration manual l be reviewed periodicallyfrom diverse sources, according to by the Academic Council. Thecommittee chairman Prof. James Council in recognition of recent

Robinson of the Notre Dame English department. Prof. 
changes in University structure, Robinson, departmen chairman, 
authorized a Faculty Manual Committee to consider necessary detailed the steps that led to the revisions to the Manual, according 
recognized in the language of the present Manual. The Paculty Manual Committee
Thursday. Voting will be done consists of nine men drawn as farduring lunch and dinner in the as possible from different colleges, halls and in the off-campus office Friday, April 28. 
disciplines and organizations. They are Raymond Brach, Nor­"The relevancy of having class man Hasaser, Eugene Henry, John officers is questioned every year," Houck, Kenneth Lauer, CharlesPifferetti stated, "but I urge the Murdock, Thomas Swartz, Josephstudent body to take the time to Tihen, and James Robinson.
vote seriously, especially in the 

Senior Class elections." A lot of work has to be done concerning Senior Fellow, graduation, etc. and it requires someone serious 
,

enough to do the job." As far as the 
,~ 

other class officers are concerned, Tom said that "although not much 
,

has been done in the past con:."' 
.,

cerning class affairs, a lot could be 
,

done if the officers had a little 
,

imagination, and I've always felt 
,

that if someone is willing to do the work, then why not take five 
1 

i ~minutes to vote and give him the chance?" 
~
Is this the perfect Datsun? 

Ask the expert. 
Your Datsun dealer is the Small Car Expert. Let him show you what makes the 1200 Sedan so perfect. 
• 
Up to 30 miles per gallon 

• 
Safety front disc brakes 

• 
Whitewall tires • Optional 3-speed automatic transmission 


Drive a Datsun •.. then decide. 
DATSUN 
PRODUCT OF NISSAN 
Jim Hammes 
DATSUN 
2102 L.W.W. MISH. 
255-9644 
Mon. & T'1tors. Eve. 
Til &:31) 


taculty members, faculty and administration officers, various Senate subcommittees, and the Executive Committee of the local 
A.A.U.P. chapter were taken into account, according to Robinson, along with the experiences of committee members. Another source was the report of a the Subcommittee on Faculty Ethics, of which John Houck is a member. 
The Committee approached the subject as a "general need to update this thing," acdording to Robinson. He praised the func­ti••ning of the committee, com­menting, "Generally speaking, it was one of the best ·committees I ever worked on. We were able to come to some common agreement on our basic approach, as well as the detailed proposals." 
The formal presentation of the report on faculty manual revision was submitted to the Faculty Senate on April 18. The Com-Abzug, D-N .Y., Daniel 
Ellsberg,who is alleged to have 
made public the Pentagon Papers, 
and P.on Young. a national coor­
dinator of the demonstration. 
And at SMC ... 
Vietnam war protest will take 
several forms on the SMC campus 
today, according to Fr. Ned Reidy 
of SMC campus ministry. 
One hundred students reportedly 

agreed to fast and abstain from , ~ 
solid food tomorrow in conjuction 

l ~with antiwar activities. Saga, the SMC food service, will reimburse the students for the meals missed 
through campus ministry, and the · money will go to the Vietnamese 
Children's Relief Fund. 

In addition, contributi'ons will be ~ 
solicited at the cafeteria during 
meal hours. 
, ~ 
l 
1
,
,
, 
,1 
,
,
,
, 
1 


----~ ---------~-­
THE OBSERVER 
AN  INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER  
John Abowd  Jim Jendryk  
News: 283-1715  Editor-in-chief  Business Manager  
Editorial: 283-8661 Business: 283-7471  Don Ruane Executive Editor  Ann Druecker Advertising Manager  

Editorials printed in The Observer reflect the up inion of the writer, on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial comment. 
Friday, April 21, 1972 


''~ARP TO TURN 

'------'YOUR. BACK ON II 
Re-form the SLC 
MinstreI of the dawn111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
The suggestion that no student Surprisingly, the SLC has been able to 
Military madness 
delegation be sent to any more Student produce for the students and the Life Council meetings could be the most University at various times. For enlightened product of SBP R. Calhoun example, last fall it sent parietal and 
nnlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllmllumlul Jim McDermott
Kersten's and SLC towers representative drinking sanctions back to the trustees. Floyd Kezele's political lives. Also, it has merged the SMC-ND traffic 
The SLC has been useless this year, violations boards and approved The war continues. There is no sign that it will end. Each side cries of allowing the administration to ride sophomore cars. the other's aggression, and asserts its own virtue. Neither seems willingroughshod over it on issue after issue. It For these reasons, and for the small to realize that each side in the Indochina war is an aggressor. is the only democratic body which allows potential accomplishment that still The first recollection that I have the news coverage of Vietnam was an one faction a vote and a veto in some exists, the SLC should be kept alive until article in the old Saturday Evening Post. It told of the corruption in a cases, and is not able to change its own a smaller and more efficient body with military aid project. It seems that instead of guns and tanks, the generals by-laws. powers similar to those of the Academic in the country wanted refrigerators and air conditioning units. That 
The prime example of the double "v" is Council is formed. However, student probably should have bee!) warning enough, but the aid program con­Student Affairs Vice President Fr. representation should remain equal to tinued with advisors added to the cost. The advisors and the money were enough for the Diem regime. Then
Thomas Blantz. As an administrative that of the faculty and administration, 
the game of musical chair government mystified the world. Had all the
representative he votes as a member. and not be a minority power as it is on the 
US aid done any good, as American-made rifles were used on each side of 
Once something is passed by the Academic Council. 
a civil war, while another was still plagued a small, war-beaten country? 
SLC,such as the Crypt record shop, Fr. No Overide 
Still, few people objected. We trusted the government and its policies. 
Blantz gets his second vote, in effect, as a But more importantly, the new body 
We were wrong. Gradually, more and more people came to that
vice-president. should parallel the Academic Council in 
realization.
And when that second vote comes back that what it says goes. There should be 
Soon, the Johnson administration reported that several North Viet­
to the SLC, it comes like an ad­no over riding power held by the ad­
namese gunboats had attacked American destroyers. Thus, retaliatory 
ministrative rejection of a faculty tenure ministration or trustees. However a 
air raids over the North. Soon, protective air raids. And more than a half
recommendation or academic proposal. provision for appeal through petition 
million Americans on the ground in Vietnam, fighting in a country thatNo explanation is given. should be included in the by-laws. had become a symbol of our pride, and had lost any military significance. Students should also join the faculty in We were bombarded by the domino theory, and by escalation. More had 
,
r A Waste their bid for representation on the Board to die for the honor of the dead. Nothing made sense, and we witnessed r of Trustees. This does not mean one year the creation of the Credibility Gap. r Why should students and faculty waste as a member, but a term including The '68 elections saw people disgusted with the war, yet unsure of how 
r 
their time when they are not even ex­speaking and voting privledges on the to end it. Johnson fell to the war, and dragged Humphrey in his wake. 
r 
tended the courtesy and right of ex­major committees, such as Student Nixon promised a peace plan that he would not disclose to the people. As 
r 
planation? Affairs and Academic. he went into office, he inherited the Paris Peace Talks. After the
r 
Wrapped in a tightly woven net of Itis time for students and faculty to get delegates decided to sit at a table, the talks proceeded to get bogged down r parliamentary procuedure, the SLC has a real voice in the matters that concern in rhetoric. Now, even that rhetoric of peace has stopped. 
r 
, 
r spent more time in its five-year existence them and time to abolish the hollow and May, 1970. Nixon bravely sends men into Cambodia. Campuses all arguing about wording in motions and so called democratic bodies that look over the nation go on stirke. The rage was real, but fruitless. Troops have , been withdrawn. ('The deadline for withdrawal seemed to be November 
resolutions, and where and when it will good in University publicity; 
7, 1972). But we still drop bombs, we still have free-fire zones, and we still
meet, than it has in constructive methods 
~ support a government that the people could care less about. 
, to improve life. Don Ruane 
The 1970 strike did not do anything to stop the war, but it did give vent to our emotions. Perhaps today's demonstration can do little else. The emotions are there-frustration, anger, even despair. Frustration that the war goes on, anger that we cannot influence the decisions made, and despair as more men -Asian !lnd American -are dying every day. And dying without a purpose. The tragedy loses any honor, and takes on ab­surdity as its goal. 
When Nixon entered the White House, he promised that he would not be 
, 
the first American President to lose a war, but he would end his. He r might try to realize that he cannot conceivably win this mess. He has been trapped in rhetoric, like that comment of Senator Goldwater's that r he would rather "blow the living daylights out of Haiphong than lose one ,r 
more American life." Translated: American lives are worth more than Asian lives, or than"gook" lives. The "wild west" lives on, mindless of r the value of all lives. No life should be lost for a cause as meaningless as this war. 
~ 
The time for rhetoric has been over for years. The nation must realize 
r 
that we are condemned to this war until we significantly change our leadership. After all our mistakes, we can only minimize the inevitable losses: there is no chance for any victory. Our votes and actions must affirm this. 
llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 
Staff 
Nite Editor: Joe Abell Ass't Nite Editresses: Maria 
Gallagher, Marlene Zloza Layout: Mike Baum, Don Ruane Typists: Helen Smudki, Rick 

Smith, Debbie Gras, Barb _..,L) .,l Nocross, Joe Wilkowski, Lucy Rodartenovember '69 --how far have we gone? Day Editors: Pete Fries, Tom 
Drape 
-~----­

Friday, April 21, 1972 the observer 
7 

ben zero rides again 
the chariot is long and arduous, but they further acknowledge that the honor achieved and the thrill of victory far overshadow the pains and toils of preparation. 
Finally corralled after lengthy journeys to the far reaches of the globe, the team of "horses" appears to be the best ever assembled. They are kept on a rigorous training schedule that includes run­ning,work-outs, and rub downs, and a strict diet of pepperoni pizzas andStroth's beer by the quart. The Roman's precision matched set of four stallions consists of Tom Romano, Mike Kochevar, Mark Steinborn, and Steve Gallogly, a last minute replacement for J. Carter Tackett who pulled up lame during training and un­fortunately had to be shot. Although this is fundamentally the same team fielded last year, with the exception of Gallogly, it is believed in the Roman camp that they will be much more competitive due to the superior quality of this year's chariot. 
While numerous off~rs were submitted 

from such notables as Ferrari, Fiat, Mer­cedes-Benz, Porsch, Lotus, and American Motors to design the MCMLXXII version of the chariot, they were politely refused as the Romans opted to implement their vast store of knowledge gained from years of com­petition in the Circus Maximus. However, there are some radical alternations plan­ned, including round wheels, an axle, and a roll .bar. With these improvements, the sentiments of the Roman camp focus on victory, much to the delight of their driver. 
The pilot of the chariot is a well-known campus personality, Jim "Ben Zero" Brennan. Brennan, as he is never called, is known on campus as one of the two cymbal players in the marching band. Other apellations include, T.H.E. Fish, the fellow who shaved his head for no apparent reason, and the Vulture, whose blood­cur?ling shriek is certain to topple one's samty. Brennan has been priming for Saturday's outing since September, and when questioned how the pre-race preparations were progressing, Ben was 
fisher fiends 
rumored to reply, "Ruthless!" 
With. the weekend's competition looming precanously over the horizontal Hoosier horizon. the Romans have prepared to celebrate Friday night so as to ferment the proper mental attitude. The pre-victory fest is being offered in honor of the infamous Ben Zero, who will once again risk life and limb to mention nothing of honor. Th~ ceremonious festivities will commence at 
VIII: XXX in the basement of Ben's residential palace. 
Although the entire venture surrounding the race was initially scorned as a ridiculous undertaking, the entire population of Fisher Hall has rallied around the Romans in their quest. It is not unusual for one to spot banners with "S.P.Q.R." enscribed on them fluttering from the windows or detect strains . o~ "G~udeamus Igit~r" echoing from Withm. Fisher Hall, and particularly the Romans, cordially invite all to view the race, at one O'clock on Saturday at An Tostal's Circus Minisculous. One r>ever can tell, Rome may rise again. 


There reside in Fisher Hall a select few des~endants of a once proud and powerful hentage -men of true strength and courage, born and bred in Roman tradition and sworn never t? reli~quis~ their cultural ancestry. In keepmg with this vow, these virtuous men will once again perform the ritual that keeps their bonds to the people and Senate of R?me alive. These modern day plebians of Fisher Hall have managed to preserve this ceremony in spite of the rise of collegiate football, pep rallies, coeducation and the Prime Mover. ' 
This rite, traditional during the festivities of An Tostal, is the race of singular chariots through the woods, fields, and mud of du Lac in an insane rush for the ·pinnacle of honors, the victory laurel. Although the stalwart charioteer and his four thorough­bred horses have enjoyed an unprecedented string of victories throughout the known world, this last remaining prize has eluded their grasp. 
The Fisher Romans admit that the training of the "horses" and construction of 
dennis coffey and frijid pink 
tonight 

Frijid Pink and Dennis Coffey with the Detroit Guitar Band will appear in concert Friday night, April 21. at the Morris Civic Auditorium inSouth Bend Both groups are originally from Detroit but have gained international recognition for their recor­dings. Frijid IPink's'irst record was "House of the Rising Sun," which has sold over 1.5 million copies worldwide Their most recent album, "Defrosted", featured their updated anti-war version of "When Johnny Comes Marching Home Again." Last summer, Frijid Pink toured Australia and New Zealand and are now one of the Australian's and New Zealander's favorite American rock groups. An new Frijid Pink album, on 

are the reasons the same as then 
the London-Parrot label, is scheduled for release in mid-May. 
Dennis Coffey and the Detroit Guitar Band have long been the regular studio band for Motown Records. Their guitar work is heard on most of the records done by the Temptations, Rare Earth, Smokey Bobinson and the Miracles, Marvin Gaye and Stevie Wonder. Their own first release, "Scorpio" was a phenomenal success on 
Billboard's charts. and a recent follow-up, "Taurus" is doing quite well, also. Friday night's FrijidPink -De~nis Coffey 
concert begins at 8 p.m., one show only. Tickets are priced at $4.50 and are available in advance or at the door at the Morris Civic box office. 

JOE COCKER with Leon Russell 
MAD DOGS AND ENGLISHMEN 
Engineering Auditorium 
April 22 &23 8 & 10 pm Tickets $ 1.50 
No patron cards will be honored 

the observer Friday, April 21, 1972
8 

~ 
~ 
l 
t 
~ ~ Williams givesl poetry, fiction
•
L L readings: a new l 
• ~ Hamlet emerges •
•l 
~ 
~ 
~ 
L l L l l l l l 
~ 
.. 

"He was born, he is living and sometime, hopefully not too near in the future, he won't be anymore." 
That was the autobiography author John 
A. Williams gave for his introduction Thursday night as a guest speaker of the Sophomore Literary Festival. 
Close to 200 people listened in the Library . Auditorium as Williams read various selections of his poetry and fiction. 
Tracing the 18 years of his career, Willimas began with two of his early short stories, "Figure Eight" and ''The Pary." He received a very favorable audience response to "The Hopper's Hamlet," a hip takeoff on Shakespeare's classic. 
In William's version, Claudius is known as a "low cat," and Ham himself "kn~w :.e: \-.'as sharp in his black Chesterfield jacket with white collar, gray flannel doublet and green cords." 
Williams then recited several of a series of his poems that center around "the movement of blacks from Africa to the West," collectively entitled "Safari West." rn the style of Negro folk ballads, these selections are very descriptive and personal in content. 
1 Williams is the author of several long fiction works, including The Man Who Cried I Am, Journey Out of Anger, Night Song and Sessie' .. Also a writer of magazine pieces and short essays, Williams won the unhappy distinction of being the first nominee for the Prix de Rome to be refused by the Academy, without being given any reason. 
A cursory examination of the card catalogue revealed that none of Williams' books are available in either the ND or SMC library. 
In a section he dubbed, "exerpts from long fiction," Williams read a chapter from The Man Who Cried I Am which describes uptown New York City as seen by a black writer in the days of the hoppers. He also dedicated a section of Junior Bachelor Society, a work in progress, to "Kip An­derson and all the golden jocks of Notre Dame." This particular chapter describes a saturday afternoon football game in Jef­ferson Park starring three middle-aged athletes beyond their prime. 
The final three readings were from his newest book, to be released May 5. They included a unique interpretation of the sinking of the Titanic, called "Shine," and two longer prose passages from the "Cadences" section which concern the 
Williams: Traces 18 years of his career in 
his poetry and prose. 
emotions and decisions involved in war. 
Williams added that he chose the last two readings because of their relevance to the campus strike. Several war . protestors engaged in a silent form of guenlla theatre outside the auditorium prior to the program, but there were no demonstrations. 

l 
Bite into Spafiada.juicy! 
One nip and you'll know why we· call it juicy. Spariada is mellow red wine drenched with the flavor of 
juicy oranges. lemons and limes. 
Chilled. Over ice. over and over 
again Drink Gallo Spanada. Juicy. 
-
l dlltorntd grape Wtne.Jnd natural fru,t tldVIlf'-, llrill., ·/.llt'V lll"J~. f\/l.l(jP ..... tt> 1 .tJ 1tnrn 1,:
1 
Friday, April 21, 1972 the observer 
Observer Insight 

ND pre-med program fares well 


by Dan'l Barrett 
Notre Dame's pre-med program is as good or better than most, according to graduates now at­tending medical school at the University of Michigan, Loyola of Chicago, Harvard, and Wayne State. Greg Wolf, a junior at Michigan, expressed the typical opinion that "the education I got was a lot better than the education of many of my classmates." 
"A lower grade point at Notre Dame might get you in above a higher grade point from somewhere else," explained Eugene Agnone, a freshman at Wayne State, "because Notre Dame is known to have a good pre­med program." "Notre Dame is one of the best schools," concurred Paul Brazis, a sophomore at Loyola, "and it has a big name with the medical 

schools. They might even take a emphasize liberal arts natwnallevel w1ll not be accepted 
Notre Dame student with a B over The restrictive nature of the another guy with an A because of program was the third major that " 't' · f th d t "Th 
. en ICism o e gra ua es. e "I skipped a lot of classes my program could be opened up freshman year," claimed Bob more" stated Dave Blaha. "It is 
. ' 

CabaJ, a sophomore at Harvard, too strict because there are not "because there was so much enough non-science electives repetition of things I learned at open." Notre Dame. My education was "I had taken most of the im­even a little better than the kids prtant science courses before my
" 

from Harvard. senior year," claimed Tocks, "and med schools favor nd the six hours I took in my senior 
Interviewed students pointed to Notre Dame's high rate of ac­ceptance to medical schools as proof that medical schools also feel Notre Dame pre-med graduates are better than most. 
"Notre Dame would compare quite favorably with most schools," claimed John Tocks, a junior at Michigan, in explaining the high rate of acceptance. 
Endorsements from the graduates, however, didn't come free of criticism. Main criticisms of the program centered around the calculus and physics requirements, the lack of a physiology course open to pre-med students, and the lack of electives in non-science areas. 
need physiology 
"I defy anyone to tell me why a pre-med student needs engineering calculus and physics,'' challenged Tocks. He explained that his class was allowed a choice between pre­med calculus and physics or the engineering courses, but that the choice was removed for following classes. 
Special calculus and physics courses for pre-med students could be set up, according to Agnone, because Notre Dame's pre-med program has grown so large. The -Jther graduates concurred, stating that they had found little use for the engineering calculus and physics. 
Lack of a pre-med physiology course was another criticism voiced by the graduates. "I feel I was well prepared," stated Dave Blaha, a junior at Michigan, "but I would definitely like to see physiology offered if I had to do it again." 
Classmates who completed their undergraduate work at Michigan might have had a better course selection, according to Tocks, because they could take a course such as physiology before medical school. "Physiology in medical school is not that difficult," Tocks continued, "but the kids from Michigan had a course and we did not." 
biochemistry helps 
In contrast to the situation with physiology, Agnone pointed to biochemistry as a course that "was really good and could possibly be expanded to a year." Greg Wolf added that "biochemistry gave me an ex­cellent preparation for the medical school course." 

"Taking biochemistry at Notre Dame was really important," claimed Cabaj, "and the ad­vantage it gave me was just fan­tastic. I did not learn anything new in biochemistry at medical school, and it is the hardest course offered 
at Harvard." 
Besides biochemistry, the in­terviewed students pointed to embryology as a course that was good preparation for medical school. 
"The embryology course at Notre Dame was almost equivalent to the one at medical school," claimer! Brazis. 
year were basically just a waste of time. All I was trying to do was fill my science requirement." 
"The Admissions Council at Michigan has emphasized that students should take liberal arts," continued Tocks, "because once you get to medical school you just don't have time to take the liberal arts." Wolf concurred by advising students "to take music, art, and literature courses." 
Both Agnone and Wolf felt the Arts and Letters pre-med curriculum was better than the Science Preprofessional curriculum. Wolf, who was ac­cepted at Michigan after three years, said "the Arts and Letters curriculum is more spread out and easier to digest." Agnone switched into Arts and Letters while he was at Notre Dame. 
The final criticism the graduates had for the program was actually levelled at the students in the program. "Competition is 
inherent in a pre-med program," claimed Blaha, "but it is absurd when it reaches the state where people won't give one another their notes in order to do better on the test." 
competition rough 
Blaha feels the average pre-med student is the compulsive type who "wants to beat someone on a test fllr the sake of beating them. The pre-med students are 
stifling themselves because they do not get all they can out of the course, but iust read whatever maierial they -feel will get them an A." 
"I felt more tension at Notre Dame," commented Eugene Agnone! "because I looked on the pre-med program as a hurdle in which I had to get good grades." 
The graduates felt the com­petition was unfortunate, but was possibly a part of the program Notre I?ame could not control. They pomted out that roughly half the. pre-med ~raduates on the 
to medical sc~~ol. "The program was compehhve because you always had to do better than 
1 , . 
yo~r c ass~ates, Agnone said. The grmd was bad because of 
the stro g t't' " C b ·
2 compe 1 JOn, a aJ stated, but the worst thing a ~e;,s~? could do was worr~ ~~out It. . I never really felt It, he contmued, "because I just ignored 
the people who wanted to carry on that way." 
medical school easier 
"Notre Dame had a lot of competition," explained Brazis, "because they had to weed a lot of guys out of the program. Every year the gradepoint you need for medical school goes up, so not everybody is expected to graduate and be accepted." 
Competition is less severe at medical school, according to John Tocks, because the people are more mature and willing to help each other out. 
"People have a better grip of what is going on," he stated, "and also it is much harder to get into medical school than it is to stay in." 
Explaining that he did not feel any competition at Michigan, Wolf stated that "in medical school you just try to get the best education possible. The competition is with yourself." He continued, "medical school has been easier for me and I have not had to study as much as I did at Notre Dame." 
Cabaj wouldn't say that medical school had been easier for him, but he does '"feel a lot more relaxed." 
1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
An Tostal today ... 
South Quad 
12:30 --Animal Race 
1:00 -Bubble Gum Blowing Contest 
2:30 -Jello Toss Contest 
3:00 --Impersonation Contest 
4:00 --Shoe Race 
4: 15 --Old Tire Race 
4:45 --Penny Pitching 
5: 00 --Egg Throw Bookstore B-Ball Finals 
In case of rain , all ND and SMCB: 00 --The Original An Tostal students with tickets for the AnAmateur Hour 
Tostal picnic on Saturday, should go to the South Dining Hall (east wing). Anyone who wants to bring a guest can purchase a ticket for 
$1.25. 

Main Church Sunday Masses 
5:15 p.m. Sat. Fr. Bill Toohey, c.s.c. 
9:30 a.m. Sun. Fr. Bill Jenkinson, C. S.C. 
10:45 a.m. Sun. Fr. Aidan Kavanagh, O.S.B. 
12:15 p.m. Sun. Fr. Bill Toohey, C. S.C. 
Vespers: 4:30 p.m. -Our Lady's Chapel 
most would return 
The Michigan and Harvard students pointed out that a big factor in eliminating competition was the pass-fail system used at the two medical schools. 
"There is still anxiety because you have to cover a lot of material," Blaha stated, "but the majority is happy to do average because the school is set up to do average." 
Despite their pointed criticisms of the program and people in it, all but one of the graduates felt they would still go to Notre Dame if they had it to do over again. "I wouldn't go back to Notre Dame if I had to do it again," explained Cabaj, "but only because I felt Notre Dame was so socially stinting. It's not a reflection of the pre-med program." 
The others had no reservations 
[ 

RoGERS 
Optical 
ROGER ATWELL -OWNER 
about coming back if they were going to do it again. "I did not mind the program when I was in it, and I am quite satisfied with the final results," claimed Tocks. 
"The program really helped me a lot," stated Greg Wolf in ex­plaining why he would do it over if he got the chance. Dave Blaha took a nostalgic view, "I guess I will always be a Domer." 
HOURS, 
MON -TUE'5 • Ttiu. -FRI 
9 AM 5:30PM WfD -SAT 9 AM 12 NOON COMPLETE' $PBCl'ACU SERVICE ALL E'\'E D1l'S PRfSCRIPTIONS HONOREt 
Call 
289-7809 

International Artists Present  Fri.  
the all-new glittering Liberace Show  April 28 8:00pm A·C·C·  
ND-SMC  
Discount on  
advance sale  
only  
Ticket Prices  
6.50  -no discount  
5.50  -purchase tor  4.50  
Present  I D card  
at  ACC  

THE REVIEW OF POLITICS 
SUBSCRIPTION DRIVE AND SALE OF BACK 
ISSUES AND OFFPRINTS 
Library Lobby April 27 & 28, 10-2 pm 
the observer Friday, April 21, 1972
10 

FBI agent reveals Buffalo tape 



by ('Jiff Wintrode Special to the Observer 
Buffalo, N.Y. -An FBI agent testified at the trial of the Buffalo here today that he was present in the monitor room of a local television station when an in­terview program with the Buffalo was video-taped in September 2, 1971. 
The agent, Charles Ahart, also said that to his knowledge, the defendants, who were not in­dicated at that time, were not aware of his presence. 
He said that his supervisor had told him that the Buffalo were 
going to be on the program. His boss did not disclose how he had received that information, added Ahart. 
Ahart, being questioned by prosecutor James Grable, Assistant U.S. Attorney, testified over strenuous defense objections his selected recollections of what the five defendants said. 
Charged with conspiracy, theft of government records and intent to commit burglary, after being arrested in a Buffalo Federal building last August 21, are Maureen Considine, Chuck Darst, Jeremiah Horrigan, Jim Martin and Ann Masters. 

t 
Vincent Doyle, co-<:ounsel for the defendants, objected to Ahart's testimony unless the jury could view the half-hour program in its
t entirety. A call to the station, WGR-TV, disclosed that no tape now exists of the show. 
Defending troops flee capital; 
Hoaian conceded to 
by Malcolm W. Brownt• 
(C) 1972 New York Times 
Pleiku. South Vietnam, April 20-­Hoaian, a district capital, was yielded to North Vietnamese forces yesterday before they had even attacked it, a witness to the operation disclosed today, and the defending troops fled in disorder. 
Hoaian, in the central coastal province of Binhdinh, was aban­doned to the Communists because the South Vietnamese high com­mand believed that rein­forcements could have been drawn only from even more crucial areas. 
An American oresent during the evacuation said enemy pressure had been mounting for 10daysbut the expected attack had not materialized. 
The decision to abandon Hoaian was made Tuesday when it became apparent that rein­forcements would not reach the town. which was defended by the equivalent of four companies of regular troops --the mauled 
Business students receive awards 
Two candidates for the M.B.A. dq~ree from the College of Rusirwss Administration at the Pnivcrsity of Notre Dame have been awardcd Woodrow Wilson Intt>m F!'llowships for service during tht• coming year at one of the nation's developing colleges. Only 16 of the prestigious awards will be presented by the New Jersey foundation this year. 
Thc recipients are Fred Ziolkowski of South Bend, and Walter Sulkowski. Buffalo. N.Y. 
A student assistant at the Notre Damp CPnter for Continuing Ed'lcation, Ziolkowski attended Washington High School of South RPnrl: St. Joseph's College, 1(c,;..;selaer. Ind., and Western Michigan, Kalamazoo. Sulkowski attended Cornell University, Ithaca. N.Y., and was a member of the academic council and chair­man of the Executive Club at Notre Dame. He recently received a prize for an article printed in the Business Review magazim~. 

The WGR newsman that was contacted by Ahart said that he did not know how the FBI knew prior to the taping that the Buffalo would be appearing. 
The defendants extensively cross-examined Army Captain William J. MaHoney, Special Agent-in-Charge of the Buffalo Military Intelligence Office on the role of Army intelligence and on his experiences in Vietnam. 
Malloney said that the Army last June I ordered the destruction of all "data banks" of the Civil Disturbance Group of Intelligence, and ordered the dissolution of that group. 
However, MaHoney said that a card file identified as being in his office on August 21 contained two years' work. He also said that investigation notes are being kept, apparently able to provide for the possible reconstruction of files. 
The cards, said MaHoney, cont::~in information on 'li<'ns and naturalized · ·-·-·!'Js who are ap-
McGovern victory is setback for Muskie 
<c> l!li2 New York Times 
Montpelier, Vt. April 20--Sen. George McGovern scored a major victory in Vermont Wednesday night when his supporters at local Democratic cacuses gained a majority of the seats at the State Democratic Convention. 
The surprise action by McGovern's supporters delivered a major blow to the Democratic leadership in the state, most of whome had backed Sen. Edmund 
S. Muskie of Maine. 
Unofficial reporters show that McGovern captured 276 delegates while Muskie won 158 seats at the State Democratic convention which will be held in Winooski on May 20. Sen. Hubert Humphrey garnered only six votes. Forty-six other votes were uncommitted. 

The final result will not be certified under new Democratic ty rules until next week, but the re was no question that McGovern had scored a 2 to 1 victory over Muskie and that McGovern sup­porters would capture a majority of the state's 22 and a half votes at the Democratic National Con­vention. 
In almost every town in the state McGovern supporters packed the caucuses and wre made up mainly of young people, college students and blue collar workers, as well as older liberal Democrats who had worked quietly within the con­servative party leadership 
One sig{lificant factor was believed to have been the lowering of the voting age from 21 to 18. 
remains of two battalions of the 
40th regiment. 22D division. 
Abortive efforts were made on 

two occasions to break through the 
powerful North Vietnamese ring 
around the town, according to the 
source, who was evacuated to 
Pleiku. 70 miles to the southwest. 
"Still, they did not attack us at 

Hanoi," the American said. "They 
were all around us in the hills two 
kilometers away, and we knew 
they were massing. Civilians 
came to us in a state of panic, 
talking about the North Viet­
namese who were out there. We 
lost all our militia units --they just 
piled up their arms and faded 
away." 
"The South Vietnamese troops 

just wouldn't do anything offensive 
--no patrolling, no going out to 
meet the enemy, nothing," he 
added. 
"The North Vietnamese out 

there, of course, were just the 
opposite. I once saw one of them 
standing on a hill while an F-4 
phantom was coming down on him, 
and he stayed there, face to face, 
firing his rifle at it." 
According to a supposedly secret 

evacuation plan. the defenders 
wcre to begin their withdrawal 
from Hoaian about noon yester­
day. with armored personnel 
earriers leading the way. The 
force was to move along the road to 
the coast. establishing a new 
district headquarters on Route 1, 
the main north-south highway. 
"If we could have gotten some reinforcements the day before," the 
American said, "it would have 
been a tremt•ndous psychological 
help. When they didn't arrive, I 
Vietcong 
knew we were in for trouble." 
In fact, the departure was evidently not a secret. As a throng of vehicles, soldiers and civilians poured out of the area, the North Vietnamese were waiting. 
"They attackrd and poured in all kinds of fire," the American related. "Our side broke and ran. The armored personnel carriers, which were supposed to stay with the troops, just headed up the road at full speed, with the commander on one of them. 
"By the time American armed helicopters arrived, the only radio that could have g1 , d their strikes was out of actl<~IL" 
The American saic1 ·hat it was 
the South Vietnmese •Jrces first 
contact with !lie North vietnamese 
army and they "f(')l apart." 
For two W<'ek' neavy casualties are said to han~ been inflicted on 1-''lrmy in Binhdinh, Pleiku and 
.m Provinces, in the central p,t,, of the country, but there have been other reverses for the government side. 
The roads in the area, which had been cleared by American units and were generally safe until two years ago, are rapidly returningto the crucial situation that prevailed in 1965, when American ground forces for.Jlally entered the war. 
The most dangerous roadblock is on l{oute 19, the arterial road that winds eastward from Pleiku through the mountains to Ankhe and then descends to the coastal valley ending at Lhe Port of Quinh :n, on the South China Sea. All of Central Vietnam, including military installations here in Pleiku. are usually supplied on it. 
Now ROI\'IA presentinc the incredible 
~~FIFTH AMENDMEN-T" 
Weds., Fri., Sat., for your dancing pleasure don't 1niss them! 
Large T -Bone only $2.95 
1 deliveries phone 234-3258 
lgay hours from 4-7 daily-all drinks40c 
plying for positions of "trust and responsibility" in the Department of Defense or the Army. 
He later extended coverage to any of these people in the army or who are working for companies holding defense contracts. 
MaHoney said he served a year in Vietnam with Military In­telligence, including four months with the Viet Cong Infra-Structure Unit. 
MaHoney said that he never witnessed any torture or beating of prisoners undergoing in­terrogation. 
"1 am not aware of the policy of war crimes being committed, he said. 
He described the present South Vietnamese government as a "pre­natal " Martin asked him what he meant, and MaHoney replied that "it is a democracy moving toward democratic means." 
Large amounts of laughter from the spectators followed this comment. 
The Buffalo re-submitted the names of three prospective defense witnesses to Federal Judge John T. Curtin, asking him to issue subpoenas. One of the names is Jim Douglas, who co­started the Non-Violence Program at Notre Dame. 
The other two witnesses are Curtis Tarr, who resigned last week as Director of Selective Service, and journalist Done Luce, who inspected the "tiger cages" in a South Vietnamese prison. 
The trial will resume I o. 
WE'RE MOVING JUNE 1st 

COMMUNITY NEWSTAND to'···f'1·~. Monroe St. South Bend, I'"' d. 
FRANKIE'S 
EVERYDAY DINNER SPECIALS 
-Ocean Perch $1.25 -l 0 oz. Rib-Eye Steak $1.50 -V2 Breasted Chicken $1.50 

Includes Tureen Soup, Salad, Bread, Butter and Coffee Planning a Party? Frankie's has Special Rates for Student Parti.e~! 

1 
Best Director, Best Actor, Best Picture Phone 288 8480 for times & directions 

6mercr/J 
'leubl/ 
Sapp~ire 
18k. }ewefrl/ 
ca!ltts • .• 
'])icrmoJ1J !Jmporf Compcmg 
THE ULTIMATE IN DIAMONDS 
Seer by Appointment Suite 602 St. Joseph Bank Building South Bend. Indiana Phone 287-1427 




Friday, April 21, 1972 the observer 1 1 
•

Irish host strong Miami ( 0.) rune 
iddell to hurl for ND today; clubs play twin bill Saturday 
by Stan Urankar The three hurlers, ranked among Dame hitters. LaRocca, the the top ten nationally in strikeouts, captain of the Irish squad, leads 
Notre Dame will begin a rugged include a pair of lefthanders. the way with a .360 battingschedule of nine games in 11 days Portsider Gary Wright, with a 5-1 average, while sophomorethis weekend when they play host mark and an o.78 ERA this year, is Res chan is only a point back with a t;o Mid-American Conference title the mainstay of the industrious .359 mark that includes five hopeful Miami of Ohio. The three­Redskin mound crew. He is homeruns, 17 RBis, and 20 bases game set will begin this afternoon backed by Lefty Buddy Schultz (3--on balls. 
at Cartier Field with a single game o, 1.59 ERA) and righthander Dave at 3 o'clock, while a double-header Hasbach, who sports a 1-o record 
Sophomore center fielder Dick
will start tomorrow afternoon at 1. and a 2.03 earned run mark. 
Nussbaum moved up to third in the iirsh batting race with a superb
The Redskins sport a 17-4 mark Junior Gary Cooper is the 
effort against Valparaiso last
on the year, with a better than .300 Superman of the Redskin squad. 
Tuesday. ND's dependable leadoff 
team batting average and three Hitting .421 while regularly 
hitter went three-for-four against
starters who strike out at least 12 manning the second base chores, 
Crusader pitching, scoring three
opposing hitters a game. Miami, Cooper aoes double duty as the top 
runs and driving home two more
second-place finisher to Ohio man in the Miami bullpen. The 
with a fifth inning double.
University in last year's MAC right-hand hitting star has hurled race; rates as a definite threat to 20 innings this year, and has yet to 
Shortstop Pete Schmidt is ex­
Bobcat domination of the con­allow a run while coming up with 
pected to see action in the weekend 
ference crown. three victories. 
series. Schmidt, a .367 hitter a Miami posted a three-game year ago, has missed the last three 
·Booters open 
sweep of the Irish last season. Irish encounters because of a jammed ankle suffered in the home opener against Nor­
Irish coach Jake Kline, just five 
with Illinois thwestern, and has been working
games away from the 500 win out the past two days.
plateau for his career, plans to goNotre Dame's soccer team will with ace Mike Riddell (1-1, 3.09
make a second bid to open its ERA) in today's opener against ":Pete has been running, and has spring season today, taking on 
Wright. The starters for Satur-taken a little batting practice,"lllinois at 4 o'clock behind Stepan day's contests have not been an-Kline stated Thursday. "He still
Center. seems to be favoring the ankle
nounced yet, but indications from . · h th t 
The Irish hooters were slated to ND's veteran mentor show that 1 slightly' but we cer~am1Y op~ a begin their 1972 campaign last any member of the eight-man Irish a take-charge guy hke Pete will be 
ready."

Thursday against the St. Joseph staff will be available if necessary. Kickers but the game had to be cancelled because of previous "Riddell will probably start Following the set with Miami, 
commitments on the Kickers' Friday," Coach Kline commented, the Irish depart for an eight game schedule. "but we'll have to see about 
road series next week. ND will Saturday. Rich EiCh will be ready take off for Detroit and a singleNotre Dame's club is dominated 
after pitching Tuesday, and both game Monday before travelling toby freshmen and sophomores, but Jim Noe and Ed Hrabcsak are also East Lansing for a Tuesday af­the Irish have looked sharp in their possibilities." ternoon double header with thepre-season practices and, despite 
defending Big Ten champions 
Southpaw Rich Eich will probably start against Miami in one of thetheir inexperience, are expected to Joe LaRocca and Bob Reschan 
Spartans. After returning to Sovth 
games on Saturday's twin bill. Eich, a junior, earned his third win of the
give the Illini a tough battle this currently rank 1-2 among Notre 
Bend Wednesday, the Irish willl 
st>ason without a loss Tuesday, getting credit for a 12-5 victory overafternoon. 
again depart to Butler for a Valparaiso.Thursc!ay double header, then move on to Cincinnati where they
Stickmen battle MSU ND golfers visit Michigan
will face the Bearcats in a singleby Andy Scantlebury The Irish have won five of their game Friday and nearby Xavier in 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team The Notre Dame golf team will ticipate in U. of Michigan In­
last six games including Wed­a Saturday afternoon 
will try to continue their winning doubleheader. be on the road again this weekend, vitational tournament.
nesday's thriller against Michigan. 

ways Saturday, facing a strong Their schedule won't allow them aMichigan State team behind "breather" and Saturday's clashStepan Center. The Spartans have with the Spartans is anotherused an effective defense and a "must" game.
potent midfield attack in winning Face off time is at two o'clock.
four of six games this year and they are averaging over ten goals a game. 
Netmen meet 
Super-sophomore Val Washington will draw a great deal 
BGU, Ball St. 
of attention from the Irish defense as he is the leading Spartan scorer Notre Dame's veteran tennis with 17 goals. Washington isn't the team will attempt to improve its 5­only problem, however, as mid­3 record in a pair of weekend fielders Bob Stevenson and Don matches. Gray have combined for 23 goals in The Irish will host Ball State and only six games. MSU is coming off Bowling Green Tomorrow at the 
traveling to Ann Arbor to par-
OBSERVER 
SPORTS 
The Irish, coming off an eleventh place performance last week in the Ohio State Invational, will face five Big Ten teams, in addition to Michigan, as well as Western Michigan tomorrow. 
Junior Marty Best has been the top performer for coach Clarence Durbin's team this spring, com­piling a 77.3 average. Mike LaFrance and Jeff Burda have the second best average, 79.6, while Mike Kistner and Jerry Quinn aren't far behind with 80 marks. 

a 13-8 setback at the hands of Ohio Courtney Tennis Center. Wesleyan, but the Spartans have Mike Reilly, who plays at the 
Bookstore hoopfinals on tap today 
always played well against the number three singles position, has Irish, defeating them twice in the been the most consistent per­by "Lefty" Ruschmann ford Bruno and a good Holy Joes Anvil Chorus got through a weaklast two years. former for coach Tom Fallon's 
Can a good football team beat a team pushed Hawks and Geese to bracket by some very close scores, The stickmen may be without the club this spring, winning 6 of his 8 
the limit, but Novak and Co. took including yesterday's 21-18good basketball team at their ownservices of midfielder Jim Lepley, matches to date. The team's game? Is Bookstore Hysteria, as command late in the game for a 21-squeaker over The Exhibitionists,who injured is knee against fourth, fifth and sixth players, 18 win. who were minus their star, Lessome critics charge, more footballMichigan. The talented junior Brandon Walsh, Rob Schefter The Townsend brothers, who Casaccio.
than basketball? Those and other 
from Tulsa, Okla. has been a and John Carrico, have all posted attend afternoon football practice Vince Meconi, the beleaguredexistential crises will be resolved
mainstay on defense and his ab­5-3 marks. before games, have done most of Lord High Commissioner of
this afternoon as the Final Four
sence will be felt whne the Irish Reilly and Carrico, along with their heroics for Black Magic in Bookstore B-ball, regretfully
square off to determine the
tangle with the quick Spartan Notre Dame's number one and two champion of the week long event. the near darkness of the announced the disqualification of
middies. Coach Rich O'Leary calls players, Buster Brown and John Bookstore ; theirs is usually the The Marksmen, whose top _play,The smart money is with the
MSU a "quick, strong team with Allare, have compiled the best last game on the card. Tomorrow, Mark Fisher, refused to sign anfavored Family, which gobbled upexcellent middies." doubles record, 6-2. 
fans should get a chance to see . affadavit that he did not have anLeo's Lunchmeats 21-12. 
Black Magic, which also features agent and-or did not sign with aJohn Schumate, who leads the
Trackmen in Ohio Relays 
Greg Hill and Rock star George pro ballclub. The AnaheimFamily's attack, is all but un­Nelson, who may very well win the Amigos, Chicago Zephyrs andWeightmen Greg Cortina and mark, however, is still below his stoppable underneath, except by "Mr. Bookstore" award. Philadelphia 76ers, all defunctElio Polselli and high hurdler Tom indoor record of 60-10%. the favorite Bookstore tactic, the Quickness and hustle are Magic's clubs, have bid for his services
McMannon will take aim on in­deliberate foul. The backcourt of
Polselli, the Irish captain, main assets, as well as their ability <Fisher's, not Meconi'sl.
dividual titles this weekend in the Dwight Clay and Gary Brokaw,
finished third at Drake last year in to play best for the last few Today's draw for the semifinals
annual Ohio State Relays. best on campus, sparks the fast
the discus with a 174-6 mark and he buckets. It is unlikely that they pits Black Magic versus Hawks
Irish coach Alex Wilson in­break at the other end of the court. 
has already produced a 178-8 toss will take the lump in a close game. and Geese and the Family versus
dicated that he will take a 17-man Cliff Brown and Pete Crotty round 
this spring. Polselli has also Thursday, they knocked off a The Anvil Chorus at 4:45. The
squal to Ohio State for the Friday­out this machine, whih specializes
reached the 56 foot mark in the scrappy Marksman team, 21-16, Championship game will take
Saturday meet that attracts most in easy breakaways and high
shot put. and beat The Dogs by a 21-15 count. place at 5:30. All games will take 
of the teams from the Midwest. percentage dunk shots. After slow The fourth survivor is the Anvil place, irregardless of rain, shine or Wilson is also hopeful that several starts, The Family rattled both

McMannon, the NCAA indoor. Chorus, well-stocked with grid pestilence.
Irish relay teams will post good the Lunchmeats and the City
high hurdles champion, has failed talent. After Walt Patulski's team, 
efforts arid in turn earn a trip to the to below 14.1 outdoors after run­'Bounds (21-lll forcing them into The Boys, bowed to The Dogs, B-ball Results
Drake Relays in Des Moines the ning a 13.5 last spring. Wilson also turnovers and poor shots. Chorus took over as representative Family 21 City Bounds 11following week. 
indicated that brother Mike Hawks and Geese, led by Gary for Ara 's boys in this tourney. Black Magic 21 Marksmen 16Notre Dame finished its dual McMannon will be help out of his Novak and Chris Stevens, have the Fred Swendsen and Jeff Cowin put 
Dogs 2:1 The Boys 21 ­meet season (2-2) with a 91-72 win two special events -the long and best chance of stopping Schumate the hammer into the Anvil Chorus Anvil Chorus 21
at Miami (0.) last Saturday. triple jumps-so he can concentrate underneath and clamping down on with their board work, and Bill Anvil Chorus 21 Exhibitonists 18Cortina. .a freshman from on the high hurdles this weekend. the Family's fast break. John Etter plays an all around game. The Family 21 Leo's LunchmeatsTrenton, N.J., produced his best Wilson will enter teams in the 
Cornelius, with a couple of hot But they are not as quick as the 12
outdoor effort of the season in the distance and sprint medley, four games, could be the club's key to 
other three finalists, and could be Hawka and Geese 21 Holy Joes 18
shot put with a 59-4 %effort. That mile, 880 and shuttle hurdle relays. championship. Yesterday, Bed-demolished by a fast break. The Black Magic 21 Dogs 15 
J 


·-·--­

-----------~----------­
Friday, April 21, 1972
the observer
12 

Poets 'talk to each other' 


June 26 August 11, 1972 in Chicago on beautiful campus. Serious shortage of Montes, 

CLASSIFIED ADS  
NOTICE Martin Classical Guitar, model 00 18C. Tom, 8018, after 11 pm. Parts and accessories for lm· ported cars. Foreign Car Parts 1967 BSA Victor 441 Co. 215 Dixieway North Window at 1535 Turtle Creek Dr. (Roseland) 272-7187. Leave phone Noo. in mail box. 50 Gallons tree gas with 4 tire 8 Track closeout purchase; 25 free gallons gas with Good tapes only $2.00 2 lire purchase. Ask about our 114 Farley rustproofing and shock absorber specials. Ron's Standard, 1409 MONEY MAKING OP· Portage Ave. 255-0520. PORTUNITY. Earn $100 monthly on small investment soccer Mary Ann 234-3250 qame. Call 234-1946 or 283-8670. Experienced typist Will negotiate on rates. 1970 TRIUMPH GT 6+. Dark ·­----------­Blue, Superb Condition, must see GOOD BOOKS SALE: BURY 1o believe. AM FM radio, Pirrelli MY HEART AT WOUNDED Radials, stereo exhaust. new KNEE $1.95 now $1.37; transmission, $2400. Call John, SEPARATE REALITY 2.95 now 232-4135. 1.95; WAY OF ALL THE EARTH (DUNNE)· 2.95now 1.95; KNOTS Latest S-Track tapes, $4.00 and (LAING) 1.45 now .99; KAMA $5.00. Phone 283 1064. SUTRA 1.25 now .88; MASSAGE 1971 Honda CB100. only ridden 800 BOOK 3.95 now 2.90; JANIS 4.95 miles. Call 1166. now 3.47; and more a1 PAN· DORA'S BOOK f-SB-ND AVES. SAVE ON RECORDING TAPE! Cassette, Reel, and S-Track; Pitt Club Election. Ampex, BASF, Memorex, Sony, If you are interested in running, or TDK. Call Don 3729. call John: 232 2725; Milo, 6726; Steve, 6756. For Sale, 1966 Pontiac Tempest. Good condition. $4.00. 288-6562. Will Type 3ny1hing for faculty or after 6 pm weekdays. students. Call 232-0136. ------------­'69 VW Van Tape Deck, $1195 Fiddles, quitars, banioes. Dan after 6 pm. Lakeville, 649-3849. Gellert SMC Coffeehouse. Sat night 9:00. FOR RENT WANTED For Rent: 4 room apt. childless married student preferred. Phone WANTED: We will do typing 289 1329. antyime for reasonable prices. Especially on short notice. Call 3 bedroom . 7 room house . nearby Chip 8256 or Mike 6963. campus on Notre Dame Ave. Suitable for four people. Summer Wanted: Volunteers for Wallace only. Call John or Bruce. 8092. to unite in effective political ac­t;on. Contact Dr. Helen Calvin, House for rent. Summer only. 2 103 .. S. Eddy Street, South Bend, blocks from ND. 3 to 5 bedrooms. Indiana. Phone 288-2201. $175 mo. Call Julie 4549. Wan ted: Unfurnished two Married Law Student . Furnished bedroom house tor summer and Apt. Two Bedrooms. Call 272­next school year. Call Mike 283· 8696. 1349. PERSONALS Central New Yorkers -We'll haul your belongings home in May. Dear AI, Must determine truck size from Happy Birthday 1o a real ham. number interested so call NOW. burger Horse 3874 Gigantic 1046. Dad's Root Beer LOST AND FOUND Need Riders 1o Ann Arbor Found: Room key with numbers Call Michael 1418. 358-196 on the North Quad lawn near Breen-Phillips. call 1360 to NOTICE (Iaim. EXPRESS YOUR VIEWS ON Cape Black, full length. Lost at THE WAR! Beaux Arts. Reward for return. Dr. Doll Droge Call Joseph Velez · 233-0842, 233· Mr. Suen Kraemer 6800. The National Security Council ---~------­The Old Executive Office Bldg LOST: PAIR OF WIRE RIM The White House GLASSES IN A CAR WITH Washington DC 20506 FLORIDA LICENSE PLATES Ph. 456·1414, ext. 2199. LAST THURSDAY ON THE WAY Clip and mail 1o a friend. TO LOUIE'S. CALL BILL 8738. Ambassador Anatoly Dobrynin LOST: Statistics Book, will not be Soviet Embassy used as testbook next year. 1125 16th 51 NW Contains invaluable and Washington DC irreplaceable notes. $5.00 reward; no questions asked if Peace on Earth returned. Call Bob 1167. Pope John XXIII Photos by Magnum Found: St. Mary's Girl's Yellow Write: Mr. Ken Hying overnight case at Indiana Cab Golden Press Company apparently lost before 1220 Mound Ave. vacation. Racine, Wisconsin 53404 $1.95 plus .50 tor post and in check LOST: Small black and white fox or money order. terrier. last seen near Iibrary. Reward. 287-4589. Grow Abroad This Summer... a month of carefree travel on your own in Europe...plus four weeks of study in arL music, photography, drama or Fench. Growth through experience and ins1ruction...isn't that what it's all about? $695 from New York. Call Joe McDonough, campus representative American International Academy. Phone 234-3465 283-7024. Excellent sales opportunity for enthusiastic students; especially tor those remaining in South Bend tor the summer. For information Words I<:, ?a-. Jda <da Sdacall: 233 3893. I 10 6\ 95 1.15 1.35 1.55 11-15 1.00 1.50 1.85 2.10 2.40 FOR SALE 16·20 1.30 1.95 2.15 2 55 2.95 21-25 1.70 2.55 3.20 3.85 4 45 For Sale: 1 FANTASTIC Boys 26-30 2.10 3.15 3.95 4.75 5.45 Girls 20" beginner bicycle. Low 31-35 2 15 3.6S 4.45 4.75 6.15 mileage, very few dents. Call 272­·36·10 2.80 4.20 5.25 6.75 7.75 1885 after 6 pm. 41-45 l,1S 4.70 5 90 7.10 8.20 46·50 3.55 5.20 6.50 7.80 8.95  


(Continued from page 4) 

with two wooden songsticks while he changed the verses they had taught him. 
Moderator Dan O'Donnell asked a question at this point as to whether or not poetry was becoming as oral once again as it had been when oral tradition was the chief method of com­munication. He cited Ginsberg's Aborigine verse and the song whch Robert Duncan had sung Wed­nesday at his reading as examples of this. Duncan seemed to agree with this but emphasized that this was not a regression but an actual integration of the techniques of other cultures into our body of knowledge. 
"Our population is a world population," said Duncan, "and if there's something about America that seems awesome to me it's that
• 
all mankind is present here: every race ... We seem to be the gathering 
l* mock convention '72 
Committees in full swing 
print and electronic technologies may someday disappear. Duncan pointed out that even our culture 
has an oral tradition: that of nursery rhymes. 
Going from this topic to that of multi-media ' "happenings.," Duncan then lept into the political sphere by stating that the Vietnam war was a kind of happening because it had no purposes other 
than destruction and killing. "Johnson swore to us he had no purposes there!" said Duncan. He then criticized the so-called "War ag<oiHst communism" as a war against Brotherhood. "The great communism is that God is the one who owns and whose properties belong to all mankind. It was an enormous blasphemy when, following the feudal period, mankind laid personal claim to real estate. Christendom did not understand at all that any man could own property and sell it ... We were meant to be gardeners of the earth.' 
A questioner from the audience asked of the University were not more of a symptom than a cure to the problems of civilization. Ginsberg responded that indeed Academe was a "never-never land--whose people spoil the world to maintain themselves in their style of living. He said he has become aware of "the deepest emotion that all of us in America feel: grief over what we've done to spoil the planet, to spoil our­selves." He then urged the beginning of a strict ascetic practice to cure the "American spoiling disease of conspicuous consumption." 
Next MONTESSORI Teacher Training Program 
Teachers.  
Write Montessori T.  Train.  1010  
W. Chicago Ave., Chicago,  Ill.  
60622  

Looking ahead to graduation? Looking for a job? Looking your best at the interview? We invite you to look here for suits and sportcoats that do the most for you. 

bv Harold Sam 

The Credentials Committee of the Mock Democratic Convention met last night and immediately received a notice of a challenge concerning the Washington State Delegation. Ken Muth, a member of the delegation, claimed that he was not notified of a meeting held by certain members of the delegation in order to elect a permanent state chairman and the state's representatives to the three convention committees. 
The Credentials Committee will hear evidence from both Muth and Kevin McKernan, the delegate who was elected state chairman, at its final meeting Sunday afternoon The committee could conceivably decide to unseat all committee representatives from the state of Washington, but such action is not considered likely. 
In other developments, the committee elected Betsy Mohan of the Illinois Delegation as its Chairman, and discussed the 
place for the brotherhood oi man ... Mankind is our business, not the English tradition, not Europe.
We're not...putting Europe away: it constantly gets bigger .Gary (synderl brings Buddhism: we can't move without all that: it's as if everything is becoming present in a huge open community." 
Ginsberg commented: "There are living today in the world, stili, worlds that continue the most ancient way of speaking. And our own forms are really very much 
determined by the University, by the printing press, by the chair we sit in, by the microphone, by the phonograoh albums, or the books that are written ... A study of what is eternal or what is constant, or relatively constant, could require our turning back to American Indian poetry or Aborigine poetry, to find what strengths have lasted for thousands of years." 
Ginsberg suggested that an oral tradition and culture is the most enduring of forms since even our 
procedural rules for a Democratic Credentials Committee, as well as the method of dissemination of credentials to all of the delegates. No one will be allowed on the floor of the convention without proper credentials, including the press 
• 11d the delegates, and there will be Sargents-at-Arms at all of the entrances to the delegate section of the floor checking the credentials. There will be a large area provided just for spectators. 
The Credentials Committee will meet for the last time on Sunday at 2 p.m. in room 123 Nieuwland Science Hall. 
The other Mock Convention Committees are in full swing. The 
Platform  Committee,  whose  
chairman  is  Rick  Harrison  of  
Wyoming,  will  meet  at  1 p.m.  

Sunday in the Student Center Amphitheater. 
The Rules Committee, chaired by Blake Wordal of North Dakota, will also meet Sunday at 1 p.m. in room 127 Nieuwland Science Hall. 
LOOKING? 


Sportcoat 'special. . .fully 
.. 

lined from Spain Reg. 89.00 Now 59.00 
Buy now, pay next summer when it's most convenient. No interest or carrying charges of any kind. 
-





