On The Inside 
La Fortune renovation survey ... page 2 Nixon shakes up cabinet ... page 4 


Vol. VII No. 53 serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Wednesday, November 29, 1972 

In forum with Fr. Burtchaell 
Giles discusses black education 
by Mary Janca Contending that there could not be on uniform solutwn Staff Reporter 

he stated that depending on the teacher's objective~ and the varying needs of the students taught, different Dr. Raymond Giles, chariman of the Afro-American outcomes would result.
Studies Department of Smith University in North Citing sev-eral school systems throughout theHampton, Massachusetts, discussed his paper, eountry, Giles discussed the methods they employed. 
"Separate Black Studies Program vs. Curriculum In San Bernadino, he said, "the teacher felt a suitableReform in the Primary and Secondary Level in the objective would be a development of respect for theUnited States." with University Provost, Fr. James other ethnic minorities," while in Jordan High SchoolBurtchaell in the forum sponsored by the New Frontier in Watts, he purpose of the program was to present "aScholastic Society, last night in the Library better understanding of the environment and the forces Auditorium, on the theme, "Racism, A Normal Part of which perpetuated their society."
Academe." 

E\'en though conditions wouldn't change, he said,Addressing an audience of approximately 75 "an understanding of how conditions were broughtstudents and members of the South Bend community, about would give the students a perspective into theGiles explained a two-year student in which explored first step of how to get out of the ghetto." 
black and ethnic studies in the public school system. 
A third type of sitatution, according to Giles,The problem of a lost black identity began, explained presented itself in a poor, all-white school in Cleveland,Giles, when schools, in an attempt to orient the various where the objectives included a discovery of theimmigrant groups into society and the Am~rican similarities between the needs of the students and the~ystem, geared their academic program to lit the black man.
needs of those people. 

He continued "the aims of the school systems Demands disregardedhaven't changed much. Their purpose is the same as when they were first developed." The currPnt nifficulty in devloping a Black Studies 
Program inef!!lf![!~§. explained Giles, is that "demands Blacks excluded that the curriculum be made more relavent are directed toward those who are unable to cope with the
Giles then discussed the exclusion of black people problem." Demands, he continued, "are not takenfrom the public schools in the northern states, because, seriously, and it is looked upon as a political situation." 

as he said, "most people are aware of the situation in Giles advised that the "schools' first important step" southern schools." 

in attempting to end the black educational short­Using several northern state constitutions to show Giles: Schools give "a racist interpretation to the eoming, is "to relate to the entire American blackthe pattern of discrimination, Gile stated that the entire history of mankind." 
t situation."
Indiana constitution excluded black people from at­

identify with the white Anglo-Saxon heritage." 
The federal, state and local governments aretending schools and voting. In the Ohio Constitution, 
Realizing the necessity of reform, Giles continued, 
working through such programsas "teacher Corps""no provision was made for public education of non­
three basic approaches were tried. The first of these 
and Model Cities, to orientate the aliented black man,whites, but it ·did not nrohibit non-whites from 
was "Contributionalism," in which "the contributions 
Giles added. "These approaches brought a new con­beginning separate school system s Some con­
of black people were presented to a black child to show 
cept to the problem," he said. However, "the existingstitutions, as that. of Connecticut, he added, would 
the role of black peo,nle in history." This he said, in­
school system remains unchanged."
allow for some integration, but when enrollment of a 

volved the selection !Q!: certain blacks that the "white 
The major difficulty with the Black Studiescertain number of black people had been reached, nor 
man considered important enough to put into the 
Program, Giles believes is that the role of blackmore were allowed to participate in the public school history books." 
people are still not in.. orporat d into the regularsystem. 
The ·main difficulty with this approach, according to 
curriculum.
Giles discussed the public school program as one of 

Giles, si that someone outside the black community an "ethnocentric curriculum, especially in social was choosing black heroes. In particular, he noted Nat Racism defined \ 
studies, as it gives a racist interpretation to the entire 

Turner as an example who was considered "very in­history of mankind." This, he believes, is due to the surrectionary but is now being labelled as a real hero Concluding, Giles defined racism as a "function of
fact that"American education never served more than of black people." power. People who created society," he continued an aristocratic minority," and therefore neglected the The second approach to alleviate the educational "belie,,ed it would be to their advantage to excludecontributions of the black man in American society. 

problems discussed was "Survivalism,a concept which certain people. The rights of 'free' black people in
"This neglect presumes a cultural degradation, and suggests that in spite of the fact that black people were northern states were systematically taken away." The 
an educational disability results," he explained. 

de-culturized, there is something still surviving in right to vote, to jury duty, to hold office, to move fromEthnocentircity is dangerous to both sides, Giles today's blacks." This idea is involved with the state to state, and freedom to inter-marry were
concluded, because there is "an intertwining of history "essence of being black, and what binds all black gradually prohibited, he explained. .of all ethnic groups, and this must be presented if one is 
people together." Fr. Burtchaell, University Provost, then discussedto get a "true understanding of history, art, literature, The third approach, "catastrophism," is defined as his own personal experiences with racism andand politics." 
the belief that the situation of the black man today is prejudice. and suggested as an alternative to publicthe result of "deliberate designs of people wishing to education the formulation of a black school system. AHistory distorted remain in power, and that racist practices were discussion open to the audience followed. 
devised to the disadvantage of black people. This Besides heading:the Afro-American Studies at Smith When blacks were discussed in history, there were concept, he stated, is currently held by Elijah University. some other positions held by Dr. Giles "deletions and inaccuracies." As a result of this, Mohammed's Black Muslims. include Consultant to the U.S. Office of Education, and 
"damage was done to those children we couldn't Giles then set out to define the appropriate app~oach. ~onsultant to the Ford Foundation to Nigeria. 

GSU funds to be channeled to departments 
by David Rust the money almost exclusively for activities revenue sharing will be handled through Staff Reporter geared to the GSU as a whole, besides in theserepresentatives, and Wessels said that defense against its other operating costs. students who want to get ahold of their "But social activities are organized money "will have to get in touch with their 
Some Graduate Student Union monies will around the department," continued representative after Dec. 1." begin to flow back to the graduate school Wessels, and "attendance for the typical GSU faculty advisor Robert Gordon, departments Dec. 1 on a trial basis under a Christmas department party will run much university vice president for advanced 
new revenue sharing plan, planned for higher percentagewise than a GSU party." studies, "cautions us about the solidarity of operation until the end of the year. Recognizing this fact, action came from this move (revenue sharing)," said 
The new program, proposed last year .by the Council floor last year to create some Wessels. "As a matter of fact, I have some government and international stud1es channel for GSU funds to get back to the reservations too. When we start to give graduate student David Landry an? departments, presenting the department money away, we lose our power." requiring five Graduate St~dent Counc1l representatives with the challenge, said But he reported that he and the other sessions for passage, sets as1de $500 from Wessels, of "coming up with ways of using officers, along with Dr. Gordon, have GSU funds to be distributed through the the money constructively" for the students reached a mutual understanding as to the Council representatives, evenly divided per they represent." desirability of this trial basis program. capita with a limit of 50 cents per head. "Let's see if the department can do Representatives can pick up thelr money 
In actuality, this will work out to something useful with this money," said through GSU secretary-treasurer Susan something around 35 cents per grad student. Wessels. Ratwick in the Psychology Building. 
GSU President Barry Wessels, third year The GSU is the graduate student Delegates will be asked how they plan to graduate physics st.u~~nt~ explain~d ~e organization on campus, having jurisdiction spend the money, and will be required to reasons behind the m1babon of th1s tr1al over the approximately 1350 students in the sign for the amount withdrawn, according to revenue sharing project. 28 departments of the grad school, including Wessels. 
"Grad student activities are very the Masters in Business Administration "If this money isn't squandered," said departmentalized," said Wessels. "Each (MBA). Wessels, "if it's put to good use, then I see person in the GSU contributes one dollar a Representatives are elected by the some real promise in this program. On the year to the GSU," but the gradu~te students in each department, one other hand, if representatives use it to treat 

, 
1 1 
1 1 
I 
1 
1 
1 

l l 
1 j 
Gordon: Cautions abou' k:; ~;;;;,Jarity of
organization up to this time has been usmg representativ~ for each 20 students. The (continued on page 11) 
revenue sharing 
,,,,,;'~. 
1 1 I I I I I, 
. t-, 
... 

...----1---~-----­
the observer Wednesday, November 29, 1972 

warld briefs 
(c) 1!172 New York Times. 

Washington--Secretary of Defense Melvin R. Laird announced that fewer than 10,000 men would be drafted in the first half of 1973 before the draft authority expires and the armed forces shift to an all bolunteer basis on July 1. He said that there would be no draft callis in January and that the relatively small inductions would be spaced out between February and June. He made the statements at a news conference about one hour before President Nixon announced that Elliot L. Richardson would succeed him as Defense Secretary. 
Dt>dham, Mass.--Samuel L. Popkin, Assistant Professor of Government at Harvard University, was released from jail when the Federal Government, in a surprise move,dismissed the grand jury investigating the public release of the Pentagon Papers. Popkin had been mailed for contempt last Tuesday for refusing to answer certain questions asked by the grand jury. His prison sentence had been in­tended to expire with the grand jury's dismissal, which had been scheduled for next Jan. 12. 
Nt>w York--The Consumers Union, which rates consumer products and services, has recommended the immediate repeal of fed~ral and state laws against marijuana. After a five year study of drugs, the organization has also called for experimental heroin maintenance programs and a nationwide ban on cigarette and alcoholl advertising. 
~ ca111p11a tarts" 
4: 
30--lecture, 'stereochemistry of complex Ions,' dr. john c. balker, jr., room 123 nieuwland science hall. 

4: 
30--recital, piano recital featuring ruth fisher In the little theatre. 


7: 
00--worksbop, cello workshop in o'laughlin auditorium. 

7: 
30--lecture, 'told as it is by someone who cares, curtis robinson, lake county juvenile probation of­ficer, carroll hall, madeleva. 


8: 
00--lecture, mahahrishi mahesh yogi on the technique of transcental meditation, library auditorium. 

8:00--lecture, 'a semester in the soviet union: im­pressions of an american scientist' by prof. robert betchov, 303 engineering building. 

8: 
00--lecture, 'events and actions as entities' by donald 


davidson, galvin life science auditorium. 8:30--lecture, dr. r. d. Iaing, washington hal'. 
9: 00--concert, combo: sponsored by the jaZl band, the collegiate jazz festival, Iafortune studer.t center. 
at nd-smc 
HPC conducts LaFortune survey 
by Jerry Lutkus Editorial Page Editor 
MPmbers of the Hall President's Council were given copies of the survey last night that was prepared by the LaFortune Ht-novation Committee to study 1he student body's ideas for changes in the student center. 

The hall presidents have agreed to conduct the survey for the committee. Each president was given a list of students in their hall who were to eomplete the survey. The students w<'re picked as the result of a random selection process con­ducted by a committee member. 
Committee co-chairman Terry Skeehan stressed the importance of the survey. "It gives us 
Saint Mary's College Fine Arts D<'partments will give two Madrigal Christmas Dinners at 7:00p.m., Saturday, December 2 and Sunday, December 3, 1972 in the Saint Mary's College ()'Laughlin Auditorium Foyer. 
The festive spirit of the H<'naissance will flourish with a gala English Yule Feast. The fanfare of trumpets will lead a pageant procession of players, minstrels. and singers dressed in sixteenth century medieval costumes. 
Dr. James McCray, the College's Mu~ic Department Chairman, will s<'rve as "Lord of Misrule " the host who is leader of Christmas r<'vels. Dr. Arthur Lawrence, · Assistant Professor of Music for the College, is director of the £'V<'ning's music, and will conduct the Collegium Musicum. 
Saint Mary's College Art l><'partment, Sister M. Rose Ellen Morrissey, C.S.C., Chairman, is r<'sponsible for the decorations in rh<' hall and on the tables. Costumes will be provided by the College's Speech and Drama I>Ppartment, Dr. Reginald Bain, Chairman. 


AMERICAN EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH CONSULTANTS COMPLETE EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH MATERIALS includina 
NEYlAND USED. 
DISCOUNT PAPERBACKS Mon-Fri (202) Sat 9:30-5:30 .785-4511 10-2 
2430 PENNSYLVANIA Ave.( NW Wash DC 20037 1 AREA DIRECTORS WANTFn. 
AMERICAN EDUCATIONAL\ 

something concrete to present to the administration." 
According to Ms. Skeehan, changes in LaFortune are almost certain, but only if the committee can present a plan including changes that the students want. The purpose of the survey, she says, is to find out exactly what the students want done. 
The survey includes questions that cover the possibilities of an on­campus bar, a student co~p store in LaFortune, and study areas in the Center. Also included are questions concerning what renovations are necessary in the building. 
Skeehan has found that the biggest problem facing the com­pletion of the survey is reaching the off-campus students listed in md of the building). The main lobbyi' the ballroom, and some of the smaller rooms would be open to student traffic if the proposal is approved. 
The committee hopes to gauge the use of the Center once it is open l'ontinuously. Then, according to Sk<'ehan. the committee will stud')' th<' possibility of keeping the Student C<'nter open 24 hours a day for the rest of the year. 


Madrigal Singers will fill the air with traditional Christmas· songs as £'ach course of the sumptuous banquet is served. The 1'Wassail Song," "Board's, Head.l('arol," and "Figgy Pudding" song are among the selections. The Wasail Bowl, a punch drink originally given to those who went from house to house as Christmas carolers, and flaming plum pudding, are two of the traditionally featured courses. Strolling minstrels will entertain with harpsidhord, recorder, a R£'naissance instrument, guitar, and flute. 
The Madrigal Singers will en­tertain [Ulests to a concert preceding the feast. 
the sample. As of now, _she claims she has no way to reach them. There are 21 off-campus students involved. 
The survey will result in 191 people being contacted. It covers both the campus of Notre Dame and that of St. Mary's. Each hall in most cases does not have anymore than 10 students included in the survey except for the obvious exceptions of Flanner and Grace Halls. 
Skeehan says that it will be the Hall Presider1t's responsibility to pass out the survey and make sure that it is turned in and completed. She hopes that the survey will be completed by next Tuesday (date of the next HPC meeting). Then results of the survey will be compiled by :the end of the week. 
The festivities are open to the public. Individual reservations are available, as well as reser­\·ations for a complete table of ten to tw£'lve persons. The $5.00 per person ticket includes meal and concert. For reservations call Saint Mary's College Ticket Office, 284-4176. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester ex­cept vacations by the students of the l'niversity of Notre Dame and St. Mary's Cc•llege. Subscriptions may be purchesed for $8 per semester ( 14 per year) from the Observer, l~•>x Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46S!i6. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 





Urban Studies Evening 
Thursday, November 30 7:00 PM Ro4Dm 1 03 O'Shaughnessy 
1. 
Work study for acaden1ic credit 

2. 
Urban studies seminar 

3. 
Urban studies double 1maior 

4. 
Urban studies certific~Jte 


Other action by the committee ~ncluded the presentation of a proposal to Dr. Philip Faccenda, Vice President for Student Affairs" request;. 6 a trial 24 hour open · perio<i for LaFortune. 
The proposal asked that the Student Center be open 24 hours a day from December 8 through DPcember 22. 
The Center would be available only through the Main doors (west 
Acareer in law ••• WithOUt law SChOOl. 
When you become a Lawyer's Assistant, you'll do work traditionally done by lawyers -work which is challenging, responsible and intellectually stimulating. Lawyer's Assistants are now so critically needed that The Institute for Paralegal Training can offer you a position in the city of your choice -and a higher starting salary than you'd expect as a recent college graduate. Here is a career as a professional with financial rewards that increase with your developing expertise. · 
If you are a student of high academic standing and are interested in a legal career, come speak with our representative. 
Contact the Placement Office. A representative of The Institute will visit your campus on: 
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 5· 
NOTE: If the above date is inconvenient for you.please call or write The Institute for information. 
The Institute for Paralegal Training 
13th floor. 401 Walnut St.. Phila.. Pa. 19106 (215) WA 5-0905 
...... 

. ....._ 
Wednesday, November 29, 1972 the observer 3 
Oglesbee elected to SBVP post 
by Jant't Longfellow 
halls have had to wait out similar .t icipated response was 75 per cent, response, it is net our fault but that Staff Reporter delays, since all dorms were to and Student Government leaders of the students. We are doing all begin having open lobbies at the have expressed disappointment. that we can." she stated.
Smior Sue Og1esbee won the 
same time. Student Government plans to Questionnaires should beoffice of Student Body Vice­Student Body President Sue complete the ·evaluation before r<'turned to Room 131 in LeMans.
President in an uncontested 
Write said she will meet with Dr. first semester finals so that a
dection Nov. 17. 
Hrferring to of can­Henry today about the possibility n<'w visitation policy can be Nt>w .Judicial Board Appointees
the lack of opening the three other dorm's

didates and student voting since, sees it, prepared for recommendation to Nrw judicial board members for 
lobbies as she the Board of R<'gents by
rrsponse, Student Body President s<'cond semester are to be selected
"There is no reason why the other FPbruary. Sue Welte explained,
Sur Write, commented on the Thursday. Our applicants will be
halls should have to continue
drct ion', "I can't understand the "W<' need as much support as we r<'view<'d at the Student Relations
waiting because of the one door in
lack of response, in the sense that, can get in a venture such as this Board M<'eting Thursday evening. 
L<' Mans."
if anyone is voting for someone to since it is not in our favor t~ Also appointed are new members rrpresent her, more concern present this recommendation to to the Freshmen Late-Minutes 
l
Malt' Visitation 

,;hould be shown. the Board of Regents without Board. The Student Relations llowrver. Welte added, "I am Only 42 per cent of the faculty sufficient student backing." board will select four frosh from Yrry happy about the decision, and student male visitation She said she hopes students five applicants. The names of the 
since we have been working Ogelsbee: New St. Mary's questionnaires have been returned realize that, n<'w members will be available together very well for a long time Student Body Vice-to Student Government. An-"If we get held up due to lack of aft<'r the meeting Thursday night. now. Now we are both in a position President 
wh<'re we can voice opinions in a Mulaney -claimed, "We are verymore official capacity." 
much in favor of open lobbies but 

Transportation hearings
!here is a security delay. The only 

J>nstpont'nlt'nt of Open Lob bit-s 
thing that is holding it up is the The St. Mary's "open lobbies" need for a firelock on one l'lf the 
1'he Department of Tran­hearings in South Bend. The llccello said. "We in theproposal. which was to have gone doors in Le Mans Hall." 
sportation's Office of Consumer Crnter for Continuing Education, 
lkpartm<'nt of Transportation are
into <'ffect by November, has been This lock has been ordered but Affairs will hold public hearings on on the University of Notre Dame intrr<'sted in your thoughts andd<'layed for security reasons. will not arrive until December 13th 
the problems confronting the campus. will host both the 2:00 
-.;uggestions about the tran­
SMC Dean of Students Kathleen or 14th. The three other campus 
transportation consumer in the p.m. ES'r and 7:30 p.m. EST 
sportation services available to
South Bend, Indiana area 1 on hearings on November 30, 1972. 
~·ou. W<' will provide time for both
Thursday, November 30,Secretary The Department of Tran­
prepared and spontaneous
Red Cross sponsors 
of Transportation John A. Volpe sportal ion invites comments pr£'sent ations.''announced today. concerning the following: For the convenience of par­
"President Nixon and I believe it No-fault auto insurance 
ticipants. those who wish to speak
caznpus blood drive 
is vital that the. voice of the in­Auto repairs, their cost and at times during either
definite
dividual user of transportation reliability
by Dick Toland used for only a period of from 21 to h<'aring can be scheduled by
goods and services in this country Mass :'ransportation
Staff Reporter 28 days after extraction. Most calling Dr. John C. Reinbold
be heard at the decision making Air and noise pollution from cars
blood is used by newborn infants, Associate Director, Center fo~
level." Secretary Volpe said. and planes
The Red Cross administers a accident victims and surgical Continuing Education, University
"Therefore, I have asked Miss Costs relating to transportation of Notre Dam<' at (219) 283-7508
blood drive in Stepan Center this patients. 
Ann Uccello, Director of the Transportation for the han­
The procedure will be carried Indiana is the twelfth state to beThursday, November 30, from 10 
Department of Transportation's dicapped and aged
out by the specially trained Red \'isited by the Office of Consumer<Lm. to 4 p.m. and Friday, 
Consumer Affairs Office, to find Seat belts and other safety
D<'cember I from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. Cross staff of doctors and nurses. Affairs. Hearings were held in 
out what concerns transportation f<'atures
There is an urgent need both for Less than one pint of blood is ac­Trxas, Tennessee, Pennsylvania, 
users throughout the nation," he 
donors and coed volunteers to tually taken. The average person Louisiana, Ohio, Georgia, New
added.

has between 10 and 12 pints of "I urge all citizens to attend York. Northe Carolina, Colorado,assist in the program. Anyone Miss Uccelo will conduct two these informal hearings," ·Miss Or<'gon and Washington.
wishing to participate may call blood, so the pint contributed is replaced by the human system
<'ither Peter Meade, 3412 or Jack 
McKeon, 8851. within a few hours. The American National Red The Red Cross carefully screens 
ND Security reports vandaliszn 
Cross describes their constant all potential donors for · health need for blood by stating, "Your irregularities before the con­gift could mean life for a sick child, tribution is made. While two Notre Dame students There was also several cases of apprehended stealing toilet paper an accident victim, or an elderly Meade prefers that those were at home enjoying the from the library to use for a pep
wishing to donate blood arrange burglarized vending machines on rally and they were released to the
person facing surgery." tradition time of plenty this 
Peter Meade, a Junior Biology appointments either with him or Thanksgiving, burglers struck campus over the vacation, Pears eustody of their parents. Nine major, is principally responsible with McKeon. This is to expedite their rooms in Flanner and Farley, reported. Thieves jimmied a youths were caught trying to sneak for bringing the drive to Notre the procedure by eliminating taking a stereo and several tapes vending machine in the Ar­into :he hockey game Saturday and Dame. As a Sophomore transfer crowds at certain hours of the. day. from the tower residence and a chitecture Building Friday night :hey w<'re escorted home, the 
The actual prodedure takes only and escaped with several cases of
from the University of New .gold wrist watch and an alarm disciplinary action also left ot their Hampshire he was surprised to see about ten minutes and is "not clock from the north quad room, pop. Saturday, other burlars at­parents.
tempted a theft of the vending
that no blood drive was under way, unpleasant in any way," according according to Arthur Pears, head Vandalism resulted in the 
machines in Fischer and Flanner, 
and went to various institutions to Meade. He suggests that donors of the Notre Dame Security Force. breaking of a window and light and finally arranged for the <'at before their appointment but The Security Office hasn't got any but the thieves were interrupted by fixture. A careless student also Chicago and Fort Wayne chapters that they avoid fatty foods. students in the building and they broke the glass in a door at the
leads on the theft and the time of 
of the Red Cross to operate the Complimentary doughnuts and the incident is yet to be deter­Oed. i\CC with his skate, but the action facility on a joint basis. refreshments will be served. mined. Friday four juveniles were was considered an accident and no Meade underlined the personal The drive hopes to receive at disciplinary measures resulted. implications of donating blood by least at least 800 units of blood. Of A manhole cover was left open
ND chem engineers
stating, "A lot of people talk about these 50 units will be given to a leading to the universities un­
doing things for humanity. The local medical foundation to meet derground tunnel system, and a blood drive is a good chance;'' He the needs of anyone associated group of teenagers were found
to speak on ecology
pointed to disasters like the recent with the university. crawling around in there, ex­Chicago train crash as examples of Each donor will also receive a Two University of Notre Dame and can facilitate the removal of ploring. But they were gatheredup :he constant need for the life­Red Cross identification card engineers will present papers heavy waxes and asphalts as well. and sent home, without incident. giving commodity. entitling anyone in his immediate related to environmental problems While the natural gas shortage 
Meade emphasised this further family to free blood during a one at the 65th national meeting of the may hamper the adaptation of this SMC will offer 
by adding that whole blood may be year period. American Institute of Chemical technique to many pumping Engineers in New York November situations, Luks suggests that internships in 26 to 30. some benefits would be gained if
SG popcorn distributions Dr. Kraemer B. Luks, associate the gas, perhaps present in a new localgovernment 
professor chemical engineering, well, were not removed but 
The Department of Political
will describe a new method for allowed to provide the pressure to
for Holy Cross delayed 
Seimce at Saint Mary's is making 
unlocking valuable oil reserves facilitate more complete oil
Th<' scheduled distribution of 400 r_ecurrence of the abortive popcorn now trapped in rock formations. removal. :w<'lV<' Internships in Local bags of buttered popcorn to the delivery-. The paper is co-authored by Dr. Also presenting papers at the Governmmt available to Saint strickened inmates of SMC's Holy Dr. Edward Henry, president of James P. Kohn, professor meeting are: l\1arv's Juniors and Seniors in the 
Cross Hall by the Relief Com­St. Mary's College, expressed to chemical engineering, and --Dr. Francis Verhoff, assistant upcoming spring semester, an­
nounced Prof. Louis R. Tondreau,
mittee of the Ministry of ND Student Government that any evaluates the effectiveness of professor of chemical engineering, 
Propaganda has been delayed by student having popcorn problems nat ural gas pressure to help who will speak on Chairman of the Political Science
"Modeling of unforseen conditions at the should come and see him about the remove the crude oil more easily. Nutrient Cycling through Drpartment at Saint Mary's Michigan City depot. difficulty. Other members of the The project is sponsored by the Microbial Populations in a Fresh College. 
The popcorn. which should have SMC community have been very Am<'rican Petroleum lnstitue. i\ssignmmt to a department or
Water Lake." His paper describes 
b<'en delivered on Nov. 20, is hdpful in this time of crisis, claims Luks adds that the improved a computer program which agency of the local government b<'ing readied for a second the Ministry of Propaganda. recovery methods could aid the simulates the journey of four will be made by Mr. John delivery date sometime this Numrrous calls for popcorn have petroleum industry in meeting the major nutrients--carbon, oxygen, Kromkowski. Director of Human 
wrrk. Alternate plans are Hdations for thte City of South
bem received by Notre Dame rnvironmental concerns of the nitrogen and phosphorous--through 
becoming effective to alleviate a Student Government. Action is public. If the crude oil presently the life cycles of lake Rrnd. being taken to insure delivery to unreachable in many established organisms. The program also The student will be given an Order SMC rings these people. Students, faculty and oil fields could be removed, the <'Valuates the effects of light and average work week assignment of 
administrators who do not have petroleum companies could be temperature changes on the from <'ight to twelve hours. Their monitored
SMC sophomores, juniors and access to popcorn should contact more patient about developming system, especially in determining work will be and seniors can order their class rings NO Student Government for in­controversial sites in their drive to the number of algal "blooms" rvaluated by the Department of Thursday from 2:00-4:30p.m. in the formation concerning any phase of provide adequate energy for which will occur during a given l'olit ical Science for academic 
L<' Mans main lobby. popping corn. homes and businesses. season. Verhoff's work is prin­credit. 
R<'presentatives of the Balfour The Ministry of Propaganda The two engineers studied a cipally supported by the En­Interested Juniors and Seniors Company, supplier of the rings, requests that everyone in Holy "prototype" crude oil prepared in vironmental Protection Agency. who have satisfactorily completed will take orders and sizes for SMC Cross Hall at SMC register their the laboratory which contains the --Dr. James J. Carberry, the basic course in American students who want a class ring at popcorn popper with the Ministry. general chemical varieties found professor of chemical engineering, Government may sign up for the that time. This registration will determine in most wells. Their work, Luks will present a paper on "Gamma Internship in Government at the A ten dollar deposit is required. the real need and avoid overlap­<'Xplained, suggests that natural Radiation and Catalytic Selec-Saint Mary's Political Science Personal checks will be accepted. ping of any areas which might be gas pressure can indeed help Drpartment Office, 335 Madeleva 
(continued on page 11) Hall.
Hings are deli'{Cred next semester. self-sufficient in popcorn. underground oil flow more easily, 
the observer Wednesday, November 29, 1972 

Nixon reshuffles cabinet 
<cl 1!172 New York Times retreat in Maryland;s Catoctin Thurmont. Md., Nov. 28-National Park, where Nixon President Nixon began reshuffling declared yesterday that he would his cabinet today by nominating "change not only some of the Elliot L. Richardson to be players, but some of the plays" in Secretary of Defense and Caspar his second administration. 
W. Weinberger to succeed The announcements provided Richardson as Secretary of Health, the first clues as to how Nixon Education and Welfare. might proceed with his plan to 
The President also appointed instill "vitality and excitement" in Hoy L. Ash. the president of Litton the cabinet agencies and to make Industries and the architect of a the administration as a whole 1971 plan to restructure the more responsive to White House executive branch, to succeed policy guidance. Weinberger as director of the They suggested that major White House office of Management rhanges were in store for the and Budget. government's two largest 
The changes were announced at bureaucracies-the departments Camp David, the presidential ofdefenseandofhealth,education 
Kellogg Foundation studies urban decay 
"ThP quality of life in urban centPrs is a pressing problem which universities must face," according to a preliminary report on ''Continuing Education and the Universities" released here as part of a national study. 
Comparing the deteriorating urban center to the crisis in rural life of thP 1930's, the task force assPrtPd, "What is needed now is a similar national commitment to our urban centers and the development of university ex­pertise and structure to assist whPrevPr possible." 
The preliminary task force report is one of four studies on the future of continuing education supported through the Kellogg l''oundation, chaired by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University of Notre Dame. and located at Notre Dame's center for Continuing Jo:ctucation. 
Whill' the university should provide leadership for all levels of <'ducation, the task force said, "the ('ampus has ceased to be the only or even the dominant, location for higher education." They urged that universities find ways to <'Xtend credit for television and ('Orrespondence courses, as well as independent study and perhaps travel or work experiences. 
As another of six major recommendations, the report asked that "a national com­rnisision l'or continuing education bl.' l.'stablished" which would in­dude a research unit, a learning unit and a clearinghouse or ('Ornmunications unit. 
The research unit would in­,·estigate major areas of ignorance ('Oncerning continuing education, !he task force explained, such as: whPiher adults learn differently than do their juniors; how adults l<>arn best and under what con­ditions; what blocks numbers of 
people l'rom educational op­portunity: what kinds of people would be most successful at !!.'aching adults. 
In summary, the report's six rC'commendations are: 
--Each university should be mcouraged to affirm its com­mitment to continuing education. 
--All citizens should have op­portunities to earn credits toward a degre<' outisde the full-time residential degree program. 
--The continuing education program whould provide strong non-degree, non-credit programs. 
--An institute should be l.'stablished to provide intelligent leadership in insuring research and alternative solutions to the social. economic and political problems of the day. 
--Coordination of all educational institutions, governmental agencies. labor unions, businesses and volunteer organizations is necessary for effective continuing <>ducation programs. 
(continued on page II) 
Buckley supports reducing penalty lormarijauna use 
((') 1!172 Nl'w York Times 
New York. Nov. 2M--William F. Buckley Jr., the conservative columnist and editor, said today that he now advocated removing criminal penalties against the use of marijuana. 
He said he would stop short of legalizing the drug, however, on the ground that strictures against trafficking in marijuana should remain in force. 
The current issue of National Hevil'w. the magazine that Buckley edits, bears a cover headline that asserts, "The Time !las Come: Abolish the Pot Laws." The principal article in the issue urges American con­serva•ives to abandon their sup­port for laws against smoking marijuana. 
It was written by Richard C. Cowan, an activist in the Young Americans for Freedom and, like Buckley, a one-time conservative student leader at Yale University. 
Knights of Columbus 
STEAK DINNER 
Sunday, Dec. 3•5:00 pm Guests welcome in company of a member Members must sign up at Council by 9:00 pm Thursday•. 

and welfare-which together consume some 63 per cent of the federal budget. 
Richardson would assume responsibility for carrying out the President's announced aim of "thinning down" the extensive civilian employment at the Pen" tagon and for overseeing the military's transition to a post. Vietnam era. 
Weinberger, whose past at­tempts to trim spending in the government's social programs met with resistance at H.E.W., would take on that effort directly. 
The appointment of Ash to direct the White House agency appeared to signal Nixon's intention to use the Office of Management and Budget as the focal point of his efforts to reorganize the ad­ministration. 
Ronald L. Ziegler, the White House Press Secretary, read a statement asserting the President's intention to give the office of Management and Budget "a new. expanded role." Ziegler declined to elaborate. 
The spokesman did say, however, that the agency would ·'undertake comprehensive examination of all government programs now in existence to determine whether they are ac­tually meeting the purpose for which they are designated." 
Ash chaired the Advisory Council on Executive Organization, which devised the plan to replace seven existing departments with four new departments and consolidate their programs along functional lines. 
Congress has balked at ap­proving Nixon's massive reorganization proposal, however. There had been speculation before Ash's designation to head the management agency that it would become a vehicle for a "de facto" reorganization, in which White House aides and cabinet officers would coordinate executive branch operations as if the new depart­ments existed. 
The nominations of Richardson and Weinberger require Senate confirmation, which was expected to be granted by the time Mr. Nixon is inaugurated for his second term on Jan. 20. Ash's appointment does not require congressional consent. 
Sen. William J. Prixmire, D.­Wise., complained, nonetheless, that under Ash, Litton Industries had been involved in "two of the most highly inefficient and mismanaged military procurement operations." 

Proxmire described Ash as a "man of personal integrity," but he said in a statement that con­tracts to Litton for a new landing helicopter attack vessel and a new destroyer. both navy projects, were running far behind schedule and likely to generate major cost overruns. 
The national women's political caucus issued a statement ex­pressing pleasure at the prospect of a cabinet reshuffling. but added this reminder to the President: 
"The 1972 Republican party platform calls for the 'appointment of women to higheast-level posit ions in the federal govern­ment. including the cabinet,' and Wt' naturally expect that you in­tend to keep that commitment." 
The White House said that Nixon would make additional personnel announcements tomorrow. 
Richardson, who is 52, will succeed Melvin R. Laird, whose resignation was announced by Nixon yesterday, along with that or George Romney. the Secretary 
of  Housing  and  Urban  Develop­ 
ment.  
Frank C.  Carlucci,  the deputy  

director of the Office of Management and Budget, was being mentioned as a prospective successor to Mr. Romney. There were also reports that James T. 
Lynn, the under secretary of eommerce, would be elevated to Secretary of that department. 
Wrinberger, who is 55, said at a news conference in Washington that he would remain at his present post until the work is completed on Nixon's budget for the 1974 fiscal vear. · Ash, whose salary as president of the ~onglomerate was $195,000 a vear. will receive $42,500 in his government post. He said that he would sever all connections with Litton by Dec. 9 and that he would sell some 200,000 shares of stock in the corporation, with the proceeds to be invested in a blind trust. 
Ash. who is 54, said at a separate news conference in the capital that he would begin work at the White !louse as soon after Dec. 9 as the President wanted him. He said that he had been a "five-figure·• contributor to the Republican campaigns in each of Nixon's elections. 

Retail Outlet Discounts 

Booze is our Business 
WELCOME BACK 
Fantastic New Beer Special 12 packs less than $2.26 

ONLY 12 N.D. FOOTBALL PLAYERS BOTTLES LEFT (full of Bourbon) Joe (No. 7) 
bought his here 
Martini's are best when drunk 
New-New-New Vinya Rose $1.99 a Fifth -chilled­
5 Star Whiskey $4.12 a fifth 

Daviess Country Bourbon $4.12 a fifth 
WE HAVE BEAT NEBRASKA'S MASCOT T-SHIRTS 
$3.50 
BUY DIRECT FROM 



CRAIG KAPSON or LOIS TRANTER JORDON MOTORS 
For sludenls and tacully 21 and over. 
RENT·A·CAR 

·.-----·­

Wednesday, November 29, 1972 the observer 5 
~~DHHIHHHHIHHHHHHHHHIHIHHHIHUIUHUHUIUUHHHUIHIHIHUJUUJHUIIUUHUIUH~UUHHUHIUHIHUUUUUIUI~UI~H~H~UU~I~HIUHH~OUUHUU~HIHUUUHHIHHUUHUUHU~IHIHUHH~HH~I~IftUI~UI~I 
'1' 
, 
, ~

I5 Supplement to preliminary schedule bookletii , 
,

i ! 
= e 1 
= i
; I , ~ 
§ Course Class B R § 1 0
~ Course title A~:~~ No.,. seq. L ~~ Professor 1 sPEciAL i 
11,
,:~x %)o2~~oo :i: o~ 2~1 ~: ~: ,
_1 L"""'"" 1." .::: '"""" J SEQ. :::• _I
5 
LEAntRSHIP L~'l "'SCI 312L 022300 03 W5 0'> 219 D PACHL!::R F U~ SEQ NO. CHANGEi LFAnERSHI P I Ao M":" I 412L 02~1ll0 04 TH oc; 223 D TUFANO F U\J SEQ: NO. CHANGE i 1,
i :;~ R(lMAN CL~S 45il 13410~ 10 5~ 114 L:.7E'J~'r F t' i , ~
II.IYTHOI nr;y 'J3 MWF C U\J CHECKMARK ADDED
I I
~R RnM.aN ~YTH'1t.Jr.v rLtS 4"iO 03 13410? 02 "1WF 5& 114 c LhlFNIW F UN t' CHECKMARK ADDED 
~

I I ,
JPLFASF 'J1TF -ALL rlLLrr.rr.Tr s~..,I~AR 321 SFCTirNS AR~ CHFCKMAQK couRsesl 
§ rnf\JSUI. ACT F'11J(" 6f.q 03 221-1001 C !3A~IKinTE-s P GR VOID SEQ. NO. §§ CONSUL IICT f-nur 6'>~ 03 22f'100 C HA'liK!flTES p ~P VALID SEQ. NO. ~ 
iI § iI 5 
~ '>PFCTI\1. STlJniFS II HJGL "iG~ l>3 ?42~~0 CcoST'=LL'J :1 UN~ ADDED COURSE § SPFCUL sTuniFs II ~=~IGL 4Qq o3 246160 cc,JSTELLO o AL' ADDED cOURSE 
ElF" 011551" II MIOII 112 0135020010 TWTF s; 115 C CAKIVEAU S SR CIWIGEOFDAY
u•

i I l
•LE• ""ISH I ML" l\"1 Ol '6000! 11 MTTF 56 21 Q ( e<IBL ES c "' CHANGE OF DAY 
=-T'HRn n ~ustc '-1ll<> 21 o o3 1ol5ot 10 ..,wr: ss 242 r BIONOCJ c uN r CHECKMARK ADDED I5 TNTPO TO "'USTC .,. IS 210 0'1 19150? oq TTll 56 221 ::: U·AHY f U"J ( CHECKMARK ADDED 5 C:USSIC ._,ASTERS MlJS 21? J3 19170:) 01 ·~WF '56 24? C PEDTKF: ~ UN I CHECKMARK ADDED 5E YNTPn T1 tlPERA v.us 213 rn 191"lOO 10 TTl? 5~ 242 c MALONEY P FR UN' CHECKMARK ADDED §!5 "1~"lf1FPN TRENOS "'lJS ?14 J~ 3G?100 02 '-'WF 56 '2.42 C H.\GER C F-R UN t' CHECKMARK ADDED 5 5 "'FA"JIIIJG 1F ""'IJSI::: ~us 21" 1~ 197100 01 MWF SS 242 C H•\GF~ C I'R J~l t' CHECKMARK ADDED 5 5 FIJNOIIMFNTALS vue; ?'10 01 392AOO O"l 111WF 56 242 C Rimmn C lJ~ ( CHECKMARK ADDED 5 = ::LASSTfAL GliTT:\R "'US 23'l 01 39HOO 01 w 5~ l21 C HAGF.K ~ FR U\J ( HOUR CHANGE ALSO = § ..,US IC HISf1RY II "11JS 243 03 193400 11 MWF 5f> 242 C LEAHY F Uf\1 ( CHECKMARK ADDED ~ = "'llS 11F RFFHtnVI'"l MI.JS 2'H rn ~93?00 10 "'WF 5n 221 C CE~NY w UN ( CHECKMARK ADDED 5I 
i. I
OII ..T MfCH II "" PS v '•12L" J) 4162'0 42 204 c ")Tl"" ' " "' ' AD!ED COURSE 
I 
'-lUMAN t~=ARN MF"' rsv ~201\J 03 436360 01 nno 42 20~ r wALTF.k o GR ' DAY & CBSE. II CHNG. StM C:RFATJVITY PSY MZ 03 43~0n0 07 "'1W9 42 C SANT'lS J GR o/ ADDED COURSE =­"ll SSE~TATIQ"J PSY f><:l'} V 430750 4? 202 C OA~t;SON w GR t' ADDED COURSE 
I
._-SnCTAL PSY:HOLnr,y ."' 'J. c. 227 01 4Al7o1 oo "'WF 36 421 Q HJRNYAK W UN I CANCET~Tt>D 
I PROBLEM OF 11101'1 M!\N Tt-tl=n 111 :)'3 490502 02 TT4 F G'lRSKI F FY ( EXAM CODE CHANGE !I P"'EUMATrL nr.Y T'iF~ t-~A 01 499000 02 TT4 C OCONNOP F GR DAY & TIME CHNG. ­
I 

~ GE"'FTIC:S I'ITOL 142 <1~ 1'00460 OR r~WF 84 77q f. FIJCHS ~ FY / CREDIT HR. CHNG. ;§ GENHICS LfiB BIOL 14~1_ 01 b005e0 01 "'14 84 110 F I=UCHS 1>1 FY t' CREDIT HR. CHNG. ~ :;ENFTJCS tAB Rl'll 142L •J1 600"i6l 01 TU4 84 110 F FUCHS ·~ FY / CREDIT HR. CHNG. 5
5
5 f.EN RIOI OGY LAR ~IX ?f)2L 60121-6 01 w4 0 UN r1 ADDED COURSE 5 5 GEN ENTOMOL LAB ~InL 402L A0'31~0 01 w4 A4 002 C CRAIG G U:'li ~ CHANGE OF DAY 5 !_-C1"1PUTE!:! S IN ~I OL 1-\ I nt 4ln 1' 604760 J1 TT ~4 3'35 C CRilVELLO T U"J ~ DAY & TIME CHNG. §__ 
CYTnGfNETICS PI'JL '>0'> 04 6C7160 09 MWf 84 357 C !;>~I K GR I WAS BIOL 604I :vTnGFNETICS tAR RT'lL '>06L 6072f.O 01 F4 84 015 c RAI K r.R ' WAS BIOL 604L ~ 
1i MIAI YT C:HE!o! LAfi t CHFM 3·nL li' 642'>10 01 TH5 52 ?.4'• c BIJTTFI R sc CRSE. NUM. cHNG. §5 
• SPE TOP ORG f.HFM fHF\1 A3A 01 64P600 C HF.NNION G GR ADDED COURSE = 
I I 
& = 
§! CALCULUS IV MUH 226 :n 671901 0-:J MWFlTll 74 214 D BENHA~ C UN { CHECKMARK ADDED ; ~ CALCULUS IV \lATH 77.6 )1 671902 09 MwF2Tll 74 214 0 ~ENH-\~ C Ull.j t' CHECKMARK ADDED §! -CIILCllltlS IV '1AT'-f 226 :13 671Q03 10 MWP:Hll 74 212 D KnLETTJS G Ull.j / CHECKMARK ADDED ­~ CAlClJI.lJS IV MATH 776 0~~ 671904 10 MWF2TU 74 21~ D t<.CLETTIS G UN t' CHECKMARK ADDED ;I ::ucutus IV MAT-t 226 01 !>7190'i 1;1 MwFlTH 74 214 n ESC'JBALES ~ uN { CHECKMARK ADIED ~ 
r.Atr.uLus rv MIITH 2?6 o~ l->7FlOr:, 10 MwF3TH 74 214 o EscnsAu:s R uN ' CHECKMARK ADDED
1 5
I ~:~~~~~~ :~ ::~~ g~ ·~~ ~;:!~i :~ :~~!~~ g~~~tt:~~~ ~ ~~ ~ = = I 
li'IIGRAO HSFARC:H AF11n 4"l9 V 714250 4J 306 C Y~NG K EG ADDED COURSE §! 
i = 

OJS RESEA~CH 1=r.sr: 690 v 729050 ARIMAIII T GP ADIED COURSE 
a

= 
~~CH C'1"1MilNJC4TfDII IIRC-i 2'il 03 73211)1 09 TT12 14 202 F SPORLEOER 0 F V { HOUR CHANGE STRUC SVST t~CH 553 03 734800 f G AIDED COURSE
I 
I 
I NTRO TO OES IG'II 241 03 740700 09 TTll 40 301 c EG HOUR CHANGE 
I 
C'lMPtiT c;TRIJCT ~EC:H Cl': 476 03 774700 I<.I!JRGAN R EG ADDED COURSE AIR POllUTION LA~ Cf 'iB :J3 775500 '1CFfiRLANO A ':iR ADDED COURSE anv OES CO"'CRETE CE 561 03 776100 09 TT11 40 201 "1AK C GR ADDED COURSE 
PHEGRATFrl C JQCUI T FF. 03 7A6600 10 TT12 c EG HOUR CHANGE 
AUTOMATA II FE 01 789500 10 TT12 GR HOUR CHANGE 
j 

11-I·IIIOIIIIIII....IImii___I&___III.IIDIIHintiiiiHIUIIIUUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIDnmDIHUIIUIIIIDUDIJIIIUWIIIIWUIIIIDHIIIIIJIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIII-IIIH_IH.lii.III.Wilii·R·---7---~~·--·IUUillli 
..... ..­

.... 

AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
John Abowd  Dan Thornton  
Editor-in-Chief  NEWS: 283-1715  Business Manager  
EDITORIALS: 283-866i  
Don Ruane  BUSINESS: 283-7471  Joe Butler  
Executive Editor  Advertising Manager  

~-~-..,-­

THE OBSERVER 
Tuesday, November 28, 1972 

Please Give Blood 
For the second year in a row, Notre Dame undergraduate Pete Meade has seen that the Red Cross bloodmobile has made its way to the ND campus. The bloodmobile arrives tomorrow in search of 800 units of blood. Hopefully, the ND­SMC community will respond. 
The cause is a crucial one. Blood is always needed and this program is particularly worthwhile because it gives so units of the collected blood to a local institution for use by University persons. 
It's a reciprocal arrangement. Not only will the donation of some blood benefit those in dire need of it, but it also establishes a reserve supply for the people of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. Further, if you give blood anyone in your immediate family is entitled to free blood for the next year. You really can't lose in this deal. 
The Red Cross says, "Your gift could mean life for a sick child, an accident victim, or an elderly person facing surgery." 
Again, we've been given the op­portunity to help those in the world outside the University confines. Why not go out and aid them? Call Pete Meade at 3412 or Jack McKeon at 8851 and make your appointment to give blood. 
Jerry Lutkus 

llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllRIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIImlliiiiiiiUIIIIUIUIIIIIIIRUIURIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
guest editorial 
The Problems with the Course Evaluation Booklet 
r t 
r The "Course Evaluation Booklet,"
r 
r printed conjointly this year by the Ob­server and the Scholastic, has been out
r 
r two days. Already a number of per­
r ceptive individuals have pointed out some problems with the booklet, and a~ few personal comments seem in order. r The problems that have been pointed 
out are not new; they are perennial and I
r 
I 
fear in my more pessimistic moments,r r inevitable, given the present procedure r for the booklet's publication. First, it r must be stressed that we are convinced that the student evaluations are not only an important luxury, but an essential part of a responsible look at the curricula 
offered by the University; otherwise the small group of students who produce the booklet would not undertake a task of
~ 
such magnitude. 
A point that recurs every semester is that the evlautions are necessarily biased; they are written by a single student, at best with only verbal con­sultation with other members of the class. The point is valid. Every attempt has been made to minimize any un­warranted bias in the evaluations by asking only people we feel to be most responsible to do the reviews. Each evaluation is then read very carefully by members of the editorial board, and any questionable evaluations are double­
r 
checked. ~ The procedure is not without flaw, r however. To write a good course 
evaluation requires some time and considerable thought, and every
r semester we find that there are simply too few students who are willing to give their assistance. Those who do often end up being overworked. 
A second problem is a lack of support from some departments. T)lis semester, all departments were presumably told that they were to have their course listing completed and available by October 25. Nevertheless, several were not ready until the week of Nov 6-only days before the final deadline for the submission of 
_ 

evaluations. As a result it was impossible to begin reviews of some departments until the last possible moment. 
Finally there were the difficulties in the actual production of the magazine. The computerized typesetting of the evaluations had to be completed in less than a week in order to meet the deadline of the printer. A dozen people gave up an entire weekend-a football weekend-to complete this part of the job, and a number worked through the night on two or three consecutive days. 
As a result of these complications the booklet was not perfect. Several courses were inadvertently omitted. Others, whose reviews were late, inadequate, or simply missing, had to be covered with only the information given in department course descriptions. For two or three, evaluations from previous semesters had to be used. The vast majority were current and responsible evaluations. But the few for which we had to depend on less adequate means still detract from the overall quality of the booklet and cheat the professors and students in­volved in those particular classes. To these people we apologize, and this is my main purpose in addressing these comments to the students and faculty. 
The "Course Evaluation Booklet" has received na tiona! attention because of its unusually fine quality, and this year the Scholastic received over 30 requests from other universities who wished to use the booklet as a model for their own evaluations. It would seem, however, that unless the effort is given more support in the future by the various departments, and especially by the students themselves, these problems will persist. And until this support is given and the problems eliminated, the most we can do is sincerely apologize to those professors and students who were slighted by the current lack of support. 
Greg Stidham Editor, The Scholastic 
. -**---._:..__-:c 

Canservative 
One Version 
of "Amnesty" 
jim napier 
The question of amnesty for draft evaders raised by Senator McGovern in his recent campaigns, undoubtedly aided Riehard nixon's re-election. However, America will probably not realize the full impact of McGovern's proposal until some time in the near future. Although recently past administrations have been reluctant in granting amnesty, Presidents from Harding thru Truman have granted conditional amnesty. 
The Letter of the Law 
. Unfortunaely, there is considerable confusion surrounding the term 
1tself. Amnesty refers to the powers which the president possesses "to 
grant reprieves and pardons for offenses against the United States". 
In no way does amnesty refer to a Presidential power to suspend. 
nullify or alter the existing Selective Service Act. 
The SPiective Service Act's provisions presently allow for alternate 
social service or non-combatant military duty for those persons whose 
rl'lig~ous or moral beliefs are opposed to all warfare. Congress has 
also mcorporated an appeals system within this bill. If the individual 
concerned wishes to appeal his local board's classification, he may 
consult an appelate board which is empowered to sustain or overrule 
the local board's verdict. The general law allows for further appeals 
throughthe United States Supreme Court. 
The Basic Injustices Viewed 
One_of ~h~ basic dilemmas engulfing the amnesty question concerns 
those mdlviduals wh? ~er~ actually conscientious objectors, but were 
rpfused a C.O. classificatiOn because of an unfair hearing by a local 
draft board. Another of the dilemmas concerns those who were op­
pos_ed onl~ to the Vietnamese War on the basis of personal moral 
bl'11efs. Did the state really have the right to force them to commit an 
act they felt was morally unforgiveable? 
To a large extent this issue is one of collectivism versus ill­
dividualism. Of course, for a civilization to exist the state must force 
the collective will upon dissenting individuals in certain instances, but 
to what extent the state should be able to force its will upon individuals 
is an Pternal question. 
.C_Prtai!IIY the United States must maintain a high degree of in­
dlvidu~hsm. Over ~he years this nation's characteristic individuality has gmded the Umted States through difficult times. Without this indi_vidualism _that has charac_teri~ed the United State's history, this nation would fmd Itself wallowmg m the complacency of conformism. Such acomplacent state would at best lead this land to the same fate of MPt~ern_ich's Austria or Kaiser Wilhelm's Germany, and that fate is <'xlmctJOn. At worst the minimizing of individualism and the onset of conformism would destine this nation to the bitterest Orwellian 
prophesies. 
CPrtainly the individualism displayed by draft evaders who refused 
conscription _on the basis of personal moral belief, is ju~tifiable. No 
state at any time possesses the right to compel an individual to violate 
his .~oral creed in such grave matters as warfare. Any other I~ 
position bv the United States violates this nation's Christian heritage. 
j J

Repatriation Not for All 
Although the majority of individuals who fled this country, left 
bPcause of feelings of injustices in the draft system, some departed as 
a form of nihilistic rejection of America. To allow the repatriation of 
such individuals, as a general amnesty would do, is to create a 
mockery of the civilization of the United States. The re-entrance of 
these individuals is "individualism" carried to absurdity. 
Rather than a general amnesty, the Selective Service Act should be 
re!roa_ctively _reconstruc~e~ to allow not only for the existing con­sctentJOus obJector provisiOns, but also for conscientious objectors seiPctively against certain warfare on the basis of morals or religion. 
Those individuals presently incarcerated who feel their draft boards violated their legal rights may thereby appeal to an appelate board whose decision, as to the classification of the individual, would be based on the revamped Selective Service Act. This appeals board could be organized along the lines of the appeals board for Selective SPrvice violaters as set up by Harry Truman subsequent to WWII. 
This board should also be empowered to review the cases of those individuals in Canada and Europe who fled the United States. However., unlike incarcerated draft evaders, these individuals should be obligated to perform alternate social service or non-combat duty as provided by the provisions of the Selective Service Act. 
If these arrangements are met, respect for the laws will remain in tact. justifiable individualism will have been supported, and on in­justices of the law will have been remedied. 
the observer 
Managing Editor: Joe Abell News Editor: Anthony Abowd St. Mary's Editor: Maria Gallagher Editorial Editor: Jerry Lutkus 
Features Editor: Rod Braye Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson Campus Editor: Ann Therese Darin Associate Editors: Bob Higgins, Ed Ellis Special Projects Editor: Dan Barrett 
Night Editor: Jack Frischkorn Ass't. Night Editor: Sue Prendergast Layout:AI D'Antonio, Marlene Zloza Features Night Editors: Susan Darin, Diane McDonnell Sports Night Editor: Vic Dorr Typists: John Flanagan, Mary Romer, Dave Rust, Bob Barringer, Dave Barry Night Controllers: Steve Roper, Joe Abell 
_:-.___:.;;__E _ t --~ L_ ____j ---~-_'_'
........... .. 
---~---i 
~-----------,--~----------~------------------------­
j 
~ 

Wednesday, November 29, 1972 the observer 
Letters Ta A Lanely Ciad 
for whom the bell tolls 

rev. rabert vriHin 


of eternal life? Last night I awoke in sad­I cannot remember a time when young ness from sleep, thinking of the father­people seem so preoccupied with death as figure in Christ with whom I had not talkedan alternative to life's confusion as they for a long time. I have words of love andhave been lately. Last night, a student appreciation I would like to have spoken tocalled to tell me of her eighteen year old girl him; now my words !must be like prayersfril'nd who attempted suicide through an spoken into silence.
overdose of sleeping pills over the weekend. 
I have no words to write to change theOn Sunday evening, in Rochester, New minds of young people who have attempted York. a father told me of his daughter who to die, or who have considered death as anhas rl'cently been sent home from college alternative to being young, as many, itbl'cause she attempted to take her life. Last seesms, are lately doing. But if words sould Saturday. in New Jersey, I dined with a help. I would use all the language I" know tolovely child also eighteen, who thought so l'rect canopies to shelter the young so thatpoorly of herself a couple of weeks ago that death could never touch them prematurelysh<' sliced open her wrists with a razor at all. It is often said that those wishing toblade. Thus it has been happening for quite die have. one great common need: the need a while now that each day brings a new of being loved. What cosmic mischief is itincident of horror. a fresh report of self­that keeps people needing love from findingYiolence. as youth turns against itself to one another? Loneliness seems to be thestrike mortal blows against its own beauty chief tool of Satan for reducing God'sand promise. As a priest who receives these children to despair. Yet loneliness is justdaily reports, one wonders how he can build another word describing God's need fora wall around the boy or girl in love with man. and man's need for God, and people's <'aseful death. to keep them from being need for one another.
foolishly lured into the dark kingdom where In this anxious age, when students growon<' is seemingly immune forever from the frantic over studies, and soldiers grow sickburden of tears or the responsibility of or tl'rminally ill, wish to die. I have only and intimate tove, just at the point when over war; when young girls fret over theirlaughter. 
bl'en aware of one real brush with death: that gift has been born into infancy? At such imagined lack of beauty, and young men 
In cas<' vou wonder, I do not doubt for a once in New York, a number of years ago, I t iml's. I must have recourse to the premises feat the directions their lives must take; mom<'nt the promises of an Immortal was held at knife's point by two girls who, of faith: nothing born of God is ever lost, when everyone of any age worries about Saviour who taught us that death was a kind with threats of violence; demanded money. cl'rtainly not children, who are the first health, or sex, or salvation, or death-~an we of going home to eternal mansions, though I I gave them thirteen dolars, and they took citizens of heaven, the first heirs of Easter. not take time to be more than a little con­distrust the cozy images that see heaven as th<' cheap Timex I was wearing. I was more Within a day of the death of that infant, cerned anout one another? Can we not be as a placl' where God awaits to heal our griefs sad about the treachery of the girls, whom I there was news of another death: the death anxious to love one another as we are to with cookies made of love. We must never had attempted to help, than I was fearful of of a good priest at the Retreat House who in know that we ourselves are loved? g<'t so hung up on the cozy images that the my own demise. I have so buried the times past was like a father to me. Death I don't really want to hear that people are hopl' of hl'aven tranquillizes us against the ml'mory that it never occurs to me except found him alone, and took him literally like considering suicide; but if there are such 
r<'sponsibilities of earth. God deliberately on occasions like this, when I wonder why I a thief in the night, and there was no times people I rather wish that they would call, l<'ff hl'aven as a mystery we have no words wasn't afraid of the threats of two girls who for goodbyes. A priest should always be this evening or any evening. This way, lean !o dl'scribe. Life must be treated Wl'l'm<'d willing to kill me over thirteen ready for deat~: I know this is true, because at least offer them a little of my own love. rl'V<'r<'nt ly. creatively, and responsibly. We dollars and a seven dollar watch. my friend, so recently buried, has often told My love for you many not be redemptive, cannot plan on options for our energies other Practically all the deaths I have been m<' so. Yet, eben of him, I wonder: were like God's love; or fulfilling, like the love of !han th<' ones Wl' presently have. Our gifts d<'<'ply touched by have been so unwanted, there no more sermons he wished to preach, the girl or boy you were intended to marry; from God are in the now; only after we have so unnecessary in their timing. Last week, or Masses .he wished to offer, or con­or even creatively supportive, like the love us<'d !hl'm. either well or badly, depending for l'Xample, I had a phonecall at midnight-­Yl'rsations he needed, or meals he wanted to your parents want to give you. But perhaps, on our strength, can we hope for eternity, always the hour of bad news--telling me of share. or sunsets he wished to meditate if there is enough of Christ in it, my love (or
~ 
which is a future still in God's keeping !hl' death of an infant child, born upon, before beginning the great dialogues the love of some other counsellor whom you 
As a middle age man who often worries p<'maturely that day to a couple from this and mother. How does one explain--ifit is !rust l may help you to find the other kinds of about dl'ath 's interruption, I do not really campus. In the face of such sadness, I am his job to explain how God can take back a love--from God, parent, or sweetheart--that undl'rstand whv people, unless they are old <'mbarrassed to speak to this young father g_ift created out of a couple's life and flesh should surround and invade your life. 
carole king--a new musical perspective 
The pervading mood of rememberance 1J1DIIIIIil11DIIIIIlli1Hill;:mlllllllllllllllllllllll!llii!lllrDIIIlll found in previous Carole King albums, is continued and expanded upon in her latest release . Hhymes and Reasons. An Rhymes and Reasons album of uncharacteristic complexity, it is the product of an artist who is Carole King Lll'coming a mainstay in popular American music. Ode SP 77016 This isn't to say that Rhymes and Reasons is just a continuation of previous work; $5.98 list rather it is an extension. Carole King has matured both artistically and personally 
lllllllllllllllllllllll I llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll HillI
and it shows. Her lyrics, while remaining simple, show the influence of her recent anything else that has ever backed Ms. marriage and child--sometimes explicitly: King. The performance of Bobbye Hall on 
congos and bongos, first heard in Music (remember Brother, Brother), is expandedBut it's all I can do to be a mother upon and helps add a new dimension to the<My baby's in one hand, I've a pen in the 
album.

other) 
The other element (along with improved backgrounds> that makes this album go, issometimes subtlely: 
Ms. King herself. on Music she often Riding along with a friend of mine sounded like a reject from a Motown backup Got enough space, got enough time group; she tried too hard to give a soulful Pieces of fruit and glasses of wine phrasing to her vocals and fell flat. And love comes in the summertime Returning to form on Rhymes and Reasons, And I don't want to lose you. Carole avoids the temptation to overextend 
phrasing and delivers in a simple, unaf­
Throughout the album, lyrics dominant. fected style. This vocal maturation shows Unlike many, words are vital to Ms. King, itself repeatedly and makes Rhymes and her style, and her popularity. With her Heasons a very listenable album, lyrics, she weaves the spells that have made The heart of the album comes on side two her the owner of back to back million-selling in the form of "Back to Canaan," I think I albums. In Hhymes and Reasons her words Can Hear You, and "Stand by Me." It is in touch us deeply and serve as a highlight for these three songs that the best elements of her music. the album are fused together. 
For all the inner growth evidenced in the "I Think I can Hear You" will probably twelve lyrics, that growth is overshadowed spark. controversy over its meaning by the music behind the album. A common <seemmgly a song about God). Fine piano complaint concerning Tapestry and work serves as a showcase for the vocal and especially Music was that the music lacked the bass lines of Charles Larkey add a touch imagination. Russ Kunkel and Joel that is both unique and breath-taking. O'Brien's drum work on the first albums "Back to Canaan" also offers fine in­resembled fourth graders with their first set strumentation highlighted by the unique of drums. For Rhymes and Reasons, percussion of Bobbye Hall weaved into an Harvey Mason does the finest job to date on exotic melody. Ms. Kings' bright vocal a King album. That isn't to say that he'll work coupled with her always strong piano make one forget Ginger Baker or Danny is well-suited change of pace. Seraphine, but it is so much better than "Stand By Me" is simply one of the best 

robert i· hanna 
who knows where she has been and is on the threshold of something even greater. 
I was wanting someone to talk to Needing to let myself out Knowing beyond a doubt the past is behind me 
Now needing a hand to cling to Lucky I was to find Someone of similar mind to stand behind me Not letting dazzlement blind me Showing me where to find me Willing to just be kind and stand behind me. 
Carole King is at the beginning of a new phase in her music. She has corrected much of what marred her last work and produced a fine album. While nol lhe album of the year, Rhymes and Reasons is given to us by someone who knows her business and makes it a pleasure for us to join her in it. 

cheech &chong 
The "hard-rock" comedy team of Richard, "Cheecl.." Marin and Tmumy Chong will entertain at South Bend's Morris Civic Auditorium this Thursday night, November :10, at 7:30 p.m. Also appearing are folksinger, Bill Tutano and "Giammarose," a new rock group. Tickets at·e available at the Morris Civic Box Office and Pandora's and are $4.50 in advance or $5.00 at the door. 


_....,=w~ 
-----~~-~-------~ 
~ 
/lieu, :r'J1 #or 5o svlf!E, 
?ONK. I 6'19Vc liP P,I/11/VG 1?/6/ff rJFrCR 7Ht NcCfltmiY HcflRIN8S-I 6tll5.$5.Z uqs P~crTY £XCIT&O !JY I~ 
..&J/'117 CIV/t.-R!Siff5 IINP 
JlJST CIJ(Jt}JN'T RNP ; _-_ m& 77He. 

~----·---....-~------­
freU-YOIJ 
~FI/20 NIYW IS cNOIIeH -ro,., """' 
/Jt<ltiC II Nlltv '"" 
10 N6/VY .ReVh­
tM1lN6l /)(JN I 
I_....__/~! 
, --_____. ___________ ___..~-------~~-----------~--;--­
CJ) 
As a St'rvice to its ever faithful Doonesbury n•aders. the Observer proudly presents 
;r 
-
CD 21 through 211. On the first Observer Comix pagt' are all those comix you missed while DoonPsbury by Garry Trudeau...November 
cr 
<I'
ct'lt>brating Thanksgiving vacation. Con­
CD
taint>d ht>re is the touching and memorable 
.,
story of Rev. Scott Sloan and his name for Ms. 
<
Joannie Caucus and the tragic result of his 
CD
.,
unrPquited love. Read on: 
! 
YC"M, Ht!rli 
rowMg, 
~RSONfiUY­
:r THINK 
/J,IITING IS 
,11~51E
OF TIH&... 
I 

OBSERVER 
COMIX PAGE 
::J 
I'D -:: Ill ~ 
z 
0 
< 
I'D 
3 
g
., 
.... 
~ 
ooO 
;:1 

~ 
I 

UW!rcR,I 
PI/? II le:RR/81-E" 0/1 c'MoN,
/IOIV PIQ Tile
a' SOIREE SHAPe 

THIN6 lA~[; Rev.1 I'H 
1/P tA$T NI6H7i... !?Ell? 

N!IJHT-'""" SV!<E IT 
,q/IJFVt,, S&,K/5/ ll!ASN'T 7HIIT 
! HI9Ve .&1 600v m1e 
THI/116.1 9.RP.' IIJH.47J'Ij

WITH MS. C/91/Cl/S? 
, _ ()0, YOIJ Ot ... 
SC.{)()NPR.cU
\ 
I 

r..r... 
HeW 
He:R 
H.RNP.• 
I 
ANt? He; /1 M.IW 
f /OvOW!
()F r11& 
CUJTH.1· I 1\/VO(I)! I j 

••­

Z.O/{~, 
:I RN/1UY
/JeCJ()E/) 70 
ASK.:Icw.iJE 
1 ~  FOR A I P11Tli.···  
d  
i  

o.~c, .:c6/Jess. r 
PIPN'r 12&9UY 651" TO 
IINOW HIH. 1£~ IIIVFl/U.f
SHY I1NP HE 0/DN'T
Rt'AUY s,qy 1"~ I Mu:H.. 

HOWDY~ 
!JRT7! IUITH 
R~P 
.5/..0FIN 60,:JOFINIC? 
\ 


:f(),tiN/6? HI. IT IS
:ft!!_/(eRe.NP SCOT 
~.HOW/VII£' 
YOV !JEe:N?.. 60Qq TIJSr 6ru:INP. 
\ 

I 
I 
I 


~SIJIIIFJg'-' 
~ 6{)/.P,:" 

~1Hir 
.5ECIJUIR?
c 
~ 
\ 


Wednesday, November 29, 1972 the observer 
9 

wic:ker Peace promises unfounded j 
final analysis. the only way and concord--envisioned in the part of the so-called "third force" · free to settle Indochinese military Washington can impose a cease­Kissinger-Le Due Tho draft ac­supposed to be included in the and political affairs in direct andby Tom Wicker 
fire on that government and that cord--must be more clearly National Council of Reconciliation unimpeded struggle with Saigon.
<Cl I!li2 Nt>w York Times 
army is by threatening to cut off defined. These are merely the and Concord , is it realistic to Now it is being asserted in their military supplies. central issues of the war; if they ~uppose that Hanoi agreed to leave Washington, through studied leaks Is that a serious proposition? have to be settled before Saigon them to the mercy of Saigon? In . and calculated statements, that 
Nov. 2x--No m:>tter what hap­After having for four years agrees to a cease-fire, it follows any case. it is a legitimate question the American side is pressing for pl'ns after the Indochinese peace maintained the war. at a cost of that on Oct. 26 the Nixon Ad­whether Kissinger was entitled to further concessions only in order to talks resume on Dec. 4, it now 20.000 American deaths, billions of ministration did not really have an speak as specifically on the matter be able to tell Saigon honestly that seems reasonably clear that Dr. American dollars, and in­agreement for a cease-fire that as he did on Oct. 26. further concessions cannot be had; Henrv had little basis for his calculable Indochinese casualties, depended only ontheworking out of By far the major question C'ven if that were true, however, it statement on Oct. 26, 12 days all for the stated purpose of giving a few details. concerns the status of North still implies that on Oct. 26 there before the election. that "peace is the Saigon regime a "chance" to As another example, Kissinger Vietnamese forces in , South w<!S no real basis for asserting that at hand," subject only to a few survive, is it really conceivable said that the release of American Vietnam. The summary of the only a few unimportant details minor details of negotiation. He that Nixon is now prepared to ask prisoners of war by Hanoi was not draft accord with which Kissinger stood in the way of a peace which had. it is clear. no real agreement Congress to shut off military dC'pendent on the release of had "no complaint" on Oct. 26 does was "at hand." with Hanoi and Saigon on ending support to that regime--thus political prisoners by Saigon. This not mC'ntion a withdrawal of North On that date, Kissinger--who was 1he war: no such agreement :;eems throwing an "ally" to the Com­seempd to be confirmed in a Vietnamese forces; every com-just back from Saigon--must have to exist a month later; and it is munists, even though Nixon has statement by Xuan Thuy, a mC'ntator pointed out that this was known that Thieu did not accept highly questionable whether either said repeatedly that if he did that, principal North Vietnamese a major American concession. thP most important parts of the Kissinger or President Nixon could a gigantic bloodbath would ensue n(•gotiator. Yet, since then, the YC't. Saigon patently is unwilling to draft accord: he could hardly have have believed on Oct. 26 that they and world pace would be North Vietnamese communist accept this arrangement; and bC'en justified in asserting, actually had reached an threatened? newspaper, Nhan Dan, has some informed government therefore. that only a few minor agreement that would bring what Yet, as recently as this weekend, asserted just the opposite view, sources insist that Kissinger's details remained to be worked out Nixon called that night in Ashland, !'resident Thieu's controlled and the North Vietnamese sum­failure to secure an agreement for with Hanoi; and if it finally turns Kv ., "Peace with honor and not newspaper. Tin Song, said in marv of the draft accord (with North Vietnamese withdrawal out that the central issue of the peace with surrender." Saigon that before there can be a which Kissinger said he had "no caused Washington--not just rC'newC'd negotiations is the with­
Quite obviously, there can be no cease-fire, North Vietnam must complaint") declared that "the Saigon--to pull back from ac-drawal of North Vietnamese cl'ase-fire in South Vietnam until withdraw its troops from South return of all captured and detained cepting his draft accord with Le forces. the real question will be the Saigon government agrees to a Vietnam. the Demilitarized Zone-­personnel of the parties shall be Due Tho. To have accepted that whether Nixon himself ever ac­cease-fire, for the simple reason in effect, a national border--must carried out simultaneously with draft. they say, would have given cepted the Kissinger-Le Due Tho that that government has in its be restablished at the 17th the U.S. troops' withdrawal." Hanoi what it had sought all along--draft accord, which was supposed army a million men, armed to the Parallel. and the role of the Since many political prisoners held an American withdrawal from the to have meant that peace was at teeth by the United States. In the national council of reconciliation by Saigon would be an important battlefield. while Hanoi was left hand. 
restan The new gentlemen from Harvard 
by James Reston 

man of peace former under thl' Nixon HEW budget.
<Cl 1!172 New York Times and accommodation with the informaiity of his Camp David
Secretary of State and secretary of Roy Lawrence Ash, electronics 
retreat high in the Maryland
Communists.
Nt'w York. Nov. 2!!--The one HEW. but certainly no middle 
manufacturer, president of Litton And in the last few days, he has mountainl.
predictable thing about Richard American type: handsome, am­
The historians and psychiatrists

Industries, efficiency expert, bePn almost more generous to his
Nixon is that he is unpredictable. bitious. almost arrogantly 
of of the future will probably be very 
Horatio Alger character out critics than to his allies in the last
The man loves a surprise. Who, for patrician. 
California, who never went to election. He has not been defen­interested in all this, but for the
example, could have guessed that As Secretary of Health, 
time being, his approach to his
undergraduate college but came ding his White House staff, but
his first major decision after Education and Welfare, Casper 
out of Havard Business School in insisting that it is too bit and has to second term is reassuring.
winning a spectacular "MIDDLE Willard WPinberger, 1938 Harvard 
Boston with highest honors in 1947. be cut back. Whatever the past, he is now
AMERICA" ELECTION BIC­classmate and friend of Arthur 
dealing with the future.
Still. there is something very Hc> has not been arguing for his
TORY. WOULD HAVE BEEN TO Schlesinger. Magna Cum Laude, 
logical in all this illogic. It is the "winning team" of the last four He is trying to deal with the
APPOINT THREE Harvard men Harvard Law School, 1941, Phi 
theme and contradiction of Nixon's ~·ears. but calling for a new team, lessons of history. Presidential
to his new second term cabinet? Beta Kappa, Finance Director for 
life. lie has made one of the great for new changes, and for a new and second terms tend to get tired and 
As Secretary of Defense, Elliot Gov. Ronald Reagon of California, 
American political careers out of more powerful cabinet, which soft: therefore they have to get
Lee Richardson, Harvard '41; member of Gen, Macarthur's 
new men, new ideas, new vigor,
doing the unexpected. would be responsible to the
Harvard Law '47; Law clerk to Inteliigence Staff, NEWSPAPER 
Afeer losing the presidency in landslide victories tend to vury the
learned hand and Justicd Felix COLUMNIST IN THE San Congress and the people.
of Yictorious president: therefore he
19fJ() and the governorshkp For a time in his first term, he
Frankfurter; Lt. Gove. of Francisco bay area, director of the 
California in 1962, and announcing seemed to be turning the White has to think anew and change the
Massachussetts; Assistant to that Office of Management and Budget 
his retirement from politics, he !louse into a palace, with unifor­question.
gentle progressive man, Sen. in the White House: a handsome, 
made the greatest comeback since med guards in music hall plumes, Ever since it was clear that
Leverett Saltonstall of 
Lazarus. He lost the presidency as but now he is retreating from the Nixon was going to be re-elected-­
Massachussets, lecturer at the 
sophisticated, moderately con­

an anti-communist hawk, and won majesty of the White House and the which now seems a long time ago­
Harvard Law School; a Boston 
sPrvative Republican, who now 

and retained it as a man of peace both his critics and, what is more
formality of the obal room into the 
Brahmin, a sensible establishment 
has to preside over cutting back 

interesting, even many of his most intimate supporters, wondered whether he would be magnanimous or vindictive if he
baker America returns to woods 
was re-elected overwhelmingly by his fellow-countrymen.
by Russell Baker They are pleased to have given bPtter about their own children In time these parents meet the 
In his talk with the reportees at

<Cl 1!172 New York Times America children who will create afer an Pvening with parents of a parPnts of the candle makers, of 
('amp David the other night, he
candles. These children, their candle maker. Imagine the fairly whom every cocktail party in 
was more generous, more com­
NO\·. 2!!--A.mong sons of the well-to­
parents tell you--these children :ypical case of parents whose son llpper America has a large supply. 
posed and more serene than any of 
do. there is a trend toward careers 
could have spent four years in has dropped out of Yale to become You see them after the first 
his contemporaries can ever
in the manual skills and cottage 
some ridiculous college preparing a welder. martini, all around the room, 
remember. He seemed, almost for 
industries. Carpentry has become 
for a life of expense account Afflicted with all the vices of pulling out their candles. 
the first time, to be thinking of
yery popular. So has candle 
swindling, government con­parenthood, these parents have, "You'd never guess what that 
history instead of politics, and this
making. It has been estimated 
sultancies, legalized tax evasion or quite naturally, always dreamed of creatvie kid of mine is doing up in 
could be a significant change. 
that one of every three children of 
what-have-you. having their son go to Yale. There, the woods," they say reaching for 
For he has not been trusted in the

the AmPrican upper class between 
Instead, they chose lives of :hey believed, he would become a their candles. 
past bedause he trusted no man,
ages 18 and 25, is now living in a 
l'fPativity. rich tax lawyer who would not only Yes, the welder's parents tell 
which was the tragedy of his
woods making cand.es. From· the woods they oc­have so much income that he themselves, there is a lot to be said 
predecessor, Lyndon Johnson, but
Parents whose children have 
casionally send their parents a would send the excess to his for ahving a son who can weld. 
in his little talk at Camp David, he 
gone in for candle making are, 
candle as evidence of progress. parents, but would also do his After all, there are alwasy things 
!-.eempd to be reaching out in a new
naturally. proud of the creativity 
After a Martini, a parent may father's tax return and teach him around the house that need to be 
spirit for a nE'w accommodation at
of their young. These parents 
produce his latest candle for all the latest loopholes. welded. It is good to have a son 
home, as he did with his ad­
matured during a period when display. One feels strong pressure. This dream would have been who can get all the welding done 
Yersaries in Moscow and Peking.
erC'ativity was highly esteemed in 
:o praise the candle excessively shattered with the boy's decision to when he visits on holidays. Cer­
And this could begin a new chapter
America. when it would have been 
and to utter lies. <"I sure wish my become a welder. "A welder!" tainly better than having a lot of 
in American politics, if his critics
social heresy to poihnt out that 
kid could make a candle like The father would have screamed. useless candles on your hands. 
respond in an equally generous
creativity is worthless without 
:hat."> "What do welders know about the 
spirit.
talent. In fact. most parents feel much loopnoles?" 
.' ....-.. .,......-.-.............. -.-.-~-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-..............-.-.-... -. --.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-. 
· · ·--~:,~~ ·-$·~-~~-~ -~ b.i.i~-~···· ·········~~~-~-··l~ ~\\o~s)·: Happiness is a cold 
,'4--~ 8011t • \{\\\'1 S\1 .. t" pog 1\,o Sk.. :l seo\1 J \e1\d0 ling Resorts ~ 
draft for 15 cents 
.·santa Cl Cd NO Jazz Band i; a us (children's 
-

See it all at the: photo available)
Nov. 30 8-10 pm
in concert 

..
THURSDAY NOVEMBER 30 7:30pm 
MICHIANA SNOWSHOW 
Tickets: $4.50 (advance, $5.00 
n 
door) 

Friday December 8 5-10 pm ~
SIMERI'S
Avaitable at Morris Civic Box 
Saturday December 9 10 am 10 pm~
Office 
~ 

and Pandora's or call 8253. 
.·

410 N Hill Street 
·: Sunday December 10 10 am--10 P1
MORRIS CIVIC 
AUDITORIUM 219 N. Michigan Ave. 

f ACC Admissions Adult $1.50 ·~ 
Free Snacks and Drinking Awards
Downtown South Bend 
232-6954 

~~---~--~··*---~---~S~t~~~~-~~~~~~~~~~~~1·~=9~.0~~UHn~d~~~-r~.~~l~M·~$M.~5~Q..J~ 


Wednesday, November 29, 1972
the observer
10 


Speaker for a junior guru 
by Jost'ph Abell Hf'ligion Editor 
Two tables and a few sheets make a simple altar on the low stage. Upon it are placed four neatly-framed pictures of the savior, one depicting him surrounded by bright. daisies, another showing him in white flowing robes. 
There are no candles, no tabernacle. no altar boys; there is no need for them. This is not an altar of Jesus Christ, or Buddha or Krishna or Mohammed, but of Satguru Maharaj Ji, a fourteen­year-old Indian boy who claims he is the reincarnation of the essence of all the others. 
The altar is mounted on the stage of Carrol Hall at St. Mary's College. The occasion: a lecture and discussion with a close disciple of the Satguru's, Mahatma Hajeswar. Tuesday night. Over a hundred people attend. 
"Everything outside of us is transitory and passes away," claims a sharply-dressed young man. He stands beside the altar with hands clasped before him, a cairn confident expression on his face. On his lapel is pinned a button with double-vision effect of the Satguru's face outlined in colored sunrays. He speaks slowly and with some hesitation, oftentimes repeating phrases, and obviously stalling for the arrival of the main speaker. 
"If we know the knowledge of God, then we know eternal bliss," he tells the audience. "And all we need to gain that knowledge is nwditation, service, and guidance by the perfect masters." 

Satguru Maharaj Ji: A fourteen-year-old perfect master promises peace to the world. 
descending a pole continuously. The moral: "Our minds are like the genie: they are only a tool, and if we let them rules us, we have no hope. We are not our minds; we are our souls and we need God. The Satguru's knowledge is like the pole: it is the thing to fill our minds with." 
The second presents two frogs, one who has lived in the ocean and another who refused to believe that there was a body of water larger than his well-home, until the first showed him the ocean. The moral: "We all get into wells and think we're important. We must realize the ocean of life." 
He hesitates again, this time closing his eyes, perhaps to meditate. perhaps to remember 
"The Lord of the Universe has come to us this day • ..II 
some more time-filler. 
"I have another story-do I have another story?-1 have another story," he finally decides, and launches into a third story, telling this time of a man who complained to the Satguru that his knowledge of God removes individuality from a person's life. 
"Go to the top of the Notre Dame library and look down at the in­dividual students, so self­importantly on their way to classes. Do they not seem the same from the library top? Are they not all the same size-that of an ant? 
"We must immerse our selves in this knowledge, becoming one with it or we will never find happiness. 
"We will never find happiness," he repeats. 
Hl' finally tells of the Satguru's "Peace Bomb," a bomb that does not destroy, but explodes inside a person and brings him peace. He conveys a promise of the Satguru's to change all regular bombs into flowers as they dropped. 


"This is a great gift," he declares quickly and scurries off the stage to make room for the newly-arrived Mahatma Rajeswar. 

A curious entrance: a man, middle-thirtyish, with a dark overcoat that was to remain on him throughtout the talk, and another Satguru button pinned to his lapel, crosses the stage and bows before the altar. After meditating for a few minutes, he sits in the sheet-covered chair beside the altar and fumbles with a small cassette recorder. After a bit of difficulty with the tape machine and the microphone placed before him, a high vioce is heard addressing a crowd. The voice of the Satguru himself? The audience is never told. With a slightly bored expression, the man lets the tape continue into wild cheering for the voice, followed by music. 
The Lord of the Universe has come to us this day sung in strangely Western-oriented music. A few disciples in the front begin to sing along. 
The tape shuts off after about ten minutes and the man bows his head. closing his eyes, and ap­parently, his mind, to his surroundings. 

Suddenly, he begins to chant in Indian. and out of the chant, English speech slowly emerges, heavily accented. 
''Human beings have lost their part," he says quietly. "They have lost their part and are groping in the darkness." 
He explains that humans have always groped in the darkness between times of perfect masters, times when the perfect masters came to show humans their real part in life. 
"Everyone has four things in t·ommon." he begins to digress, "and these are a need for food, sleep. sex, and a fear complex. But all disciples of the perfect master have one opinion: to realize God. This is their real part, their real purpose, this realization of God." .he returns to his original theme. 
But how to reach the realization of God? How to achieve this "highest achievement of the in­dividual soul?" 
"The perfect masters come to lead us to this state," he says. "They came before-Jesus was one: Krishna was one; Buddha was one: Mohammed was one. And they gave the most important thing: the experience of God. They did not give sermons, they did not make philosophies, they did not write books, they did not form theories: no, they gave the ex­perience of God. And this is why, brothers and sisters," -the first 
(continued on page II) 



Different Cultures-Strange Food-Tough Work-Long Hours-No Pay-Except, What God Gives You. 
For information on our missionary life, write 
FATHER TOM STREVELER, SVD DIVINE WORD COLLEGE DEPT. E95 EPWORTH, IOWA 52045 
Include age, education, interest, address, etc. 
ALUMNI CLUB 
Reopens Wed. Afternoon OPEN 4-2 am 
Friday • Happy Hour & % 4-5:30 OPEN 4·2 am 
Sat. • '·'Celebrate after the Irish Victory" OPEN 7 pm • 2 am 
FREE 
Admission to all. 
Now that we have appealed to your wallet the Sophomore Class would like to announce their second coffeehouse. The admission is FREE thanks to 
.. 

Student Gov't, Student Union, and Brother Gorch. It will be held this Friday, Dec. 1, 
in the Rathskeller, from 9 pm to 1 am. The entertainment is provided by some of the most talented musicians on campus. You can't beat the price, nor the company 
Plan on being there. 
Mahamata Rateswar (right) sits in a sheet-covered chair to present his ideas to Notre Dame-St. Mary's community 
members while an assistant sits patiently beside him. 
Flowers on floor are part of adornment of altar for the Satguru Maharaj Ji. 
"KAMAAINA S E N I 0 R S -For i n­formation on jobs in Hawaii after graduation 
write:  Kamaaina  
Career  Opportunity  
Day,  Box  9668,  

Honolulu, HI 96820." 

. 
, _,_. ~ 
-
,. 
He breaks this down and ex­plains: "Meditation must be done 24 hours a day, concentrating on the name of God. 
"But this is not enough. We must also stop whatever we are doing 
and  greet  the  perfect  masters  
when  they  come.  We  must  do  
service to the lord.  

"Finally, we must listen to the perfect masters. Many have eome, but most have received a bad reception-some were erucified, others ignored. We must listen to them, for they bring us the knowledge, the truth of God." 
He challenges man to seek out that truth: "Go all around the world and try to find it;" but gives a consolation: "If you find peace, very good. But if you don't, keep the Satguru in reserve. He will lead you to it." 
But a word of caution is also included in his message: "Suppose you die while you are looking­then you are dead. You cannot find the knowledge." 
This is the eompassion of the Satguru. the neatly-dressed young man tells us: he is here now; he has come to lead people to the knowledge before they die. 
An admirable presentation, but a few people leave anyway. 
lie then offers two parables, one of a ml'rchant and a genie, another of two frogs. In the first, the genie threatens to kill the merchant until the merchant sets him to a special task: climbing and 
IIELP SAVE LIVES 
GIVE BLOOD 
Stepan Center Thurs. 10-4 Fri. 9-3 

------------~--­

Wednesday, November 29, 1972 the observer 1 1 
Colloquium for frosh continued 
.., 
speak authoritatively about someNext semester freshmen will specialized knowledge; they areonce again have the opportunity to interested in many subjects and inparticipate in a unique, one-credit the many be

colloquium, Collegiate Seminar ways subjects can 
<'xplored, and they want to work

181. 
with the freshmen as colleagues inThe course is unusual because it group projects. _deals with subjects that do not There is no pre-established .

ordinarily find their way into the svllabus in SEM 181. No twofreshman curriculum and because ever identical, andit is taught in a way as different as sect ions are Pach section chooses topics andpossible from the ordinary lecture projects as these emerge in light of system. -. 
:h<' group's own interests andSEM 181 meets one evemng a n<'<'ds. But sections over the pastw<'ek for two hours in informal scvcral vears have had enough insurroundings. Each section is common' to make clear what kindlimited to eight or ten students, in of cont<'nt the course will have in aorder to avoid the impersonality g<'ncral sense.

that is so common in large lecture Th<'r<' is deep interest in thecourses. and each section is taught th<'m<' of self-discovery in thebv a Notre Dame or Saint Mary's l'ourse. Students have been in-senior who is interested in the :<'r<'stcd in <'xammmg theproblems and possibilities of prcvailing mythology surrounding l<'arning and teaching. 
Notrc Dame and Saint Mary's with Tl"" -;eniors are not teachers in all of its stereotypes of what tothe s<'nse that they are :here to 

Jazz concert planned 
"Jazz at Nine" continues this group's work is the solo emphasis, we<'k on Wednesday evening with th<' freedom, the interfeeding and th<' first concert appearance of the involvement typical of this type of Notre Dam<' Jazz Band Combo. jazz group. 
Th<' NDJB Combo will perform a This informal jazz session will be stylistically-mixed bag of small­hdd at 9:00 p.m. in the Main group jazz compositions and im­Lounge of La Fortune Studentt provisations ranging from the <'<'nter. · There will be no ad­blues to some free-form avant misssion charge. gard<' jazz work. l<'uture "Jazz at Nine" events 
Soloists in the group include Nick will include a lecture-discussion of Talarico on trombone, Jeff Noonan the work of Frank Zappa and the and Bob Guera on guitars, Mike Mothers of Invention next Wed­NickPrson on bass, John Yakacki n<'sday. D<'c. 6th and a concert by on <'l<'ctric piano and Mike Kendall the NDJB Big Band on Wednesday, on drums. Characteristic of the fl<'C. 13th. 
Fourteen-year-old 
1 
guru promises to 1 bring world peace 
(continued from page 10) 
of over twenty repetitions of this phrase-"they were God, for only God can give knowledge of God." He cites Jesus Christ as a prime Pxample of a perfect master, perhaps because the references ll'"eeded for one of the other perfect masters would have been over the 
heads of his predominantly Christian audience. 
"Jesus Christ gave knowledge of God because he had knowledge of the Holy Ghost. He was perfect; he was God." The speaker is now quite animated. Deep into his subject. he squirms in his seat as if he wished he did not have to remain seated. His arms fly about him in wide gestrures to em­phasize his points that "Jesus was God!" because "St. John wrote in his Bible that the word was made God." · 
"What is the test of the perfect master? he demands of a slowly­thinning crowd. "Knowledge!" he almost shouts, "knowledge of God! Unless we experience God, all human life is a waste! And Satguru Maharaj Ji gives us that experience and knowledge of God! 
"Jesus Christ was only one perfect master that gave spiritual experience of God. Now Satguru Maharaj Ji has come! The Lord of the Universe has come to show us the light!" he fairly screams before beginning a short litany: 
"Has he come to show us the 
light of the sun? No! Has he come 
to show us the light of the moon? 
No! Has he come to show us the 
light of the stars? No! He has come 
to sh · us the light of God!" 
He 11~ -~s the audience that he 
has seen the light himself, and that 
that light isn't the same as un­
derstanding. He offers this light to 
his listeners, through the aid of the 
Satguru. Only a perfect master 
can show this light, he comments. 
He also emphasizes the im­
portance of meditation, with the object of the meditation taking the form of the "holy name of God." But one must remember: "Jesus, Krishna, Buddha, etcetera, is not the name of God; they are the names of the bodies of God. The holy name of God is within your 
body, within your self." 
He lapses in and out of Indian 
dialects in his continually-growing 
and never-ending enthusiasm. He 
explains that all humans exist 
today only for"carnal satisfac­
tion," that their minds are full of 
impurities. 
"The only was to purify one's 
mind is to concentrate on the holy 
name of God. When one meditates 
on the holy name of God, it is called 
meditation," he declares. 
He looks at his watch as one of 
his assistants sitting a back row 
seat falls asleep. Ten people leave. 
''The Satguru has declared that 
the other perfect masters blun­
dered. But now he has come in his 
full glory and promises to change 
the world." 
Five people leave, giggling. 
Many more coats begin to rustle. A final warning: "People who do not listen to the perfect master will · suffer. If you want to receive this knowledge, you will receive it," he quickly sums up, adding that books, pamphlets, buttons and magazines for further enrichment 
. are for sale in the lobby. 
The audience crowds through the 
doors of Carrol Hall, eager to leave 
the over-long talk. They mill 
around the concession table, 
fingering copies of The Divine 
Times newspaper and Guru Puja 
magazine, occasionally pur­
chasing varied-colored pamphlets, 
finally dispersing through 
Madeleva 's smudgy glass doors. 
And as the people pass into the 
frigid South Bend air, a Jesus 
Person stands by the door to greet 
them. "God bless you," he says, 
passing out anitchrist literature; 
"and remember, Jesus is lord." 

<'Xpect from others and what is who want the opportunity to deal profit from this course may"xpected of oneself. Such with them in a significant way with register for it during the pre­discussions have led to con­others of equal seriousness. registration period at sideration of sexual identity Freshmen who feel they would O'Shaughnessy 346. through meetings with rel?resentatives of Women's Lib and Gay Lib 
GSUshares funds 
Concern for the \'alue of in­trospection is included through sessions on meditation and yoga, pcrhaps accompanied by readings on Oriental religions. Classes interested in artistic expression have worked with music of every kind. put together skits, done ccramics, and made films. Many elasses are concerned with Pxamining cultures and styles of IHe other than their own; these groups have discussed both :radii ional and countercultural readings and have made off­campus trips--to the South Bend most students never see or to the ncarby Amish communities. 
Emphasis in these classes falls on what is concrete and specific rather than what is theoretical and abstract: classes do things rather than just talk about them. But there is always interest in con­nccting what happens in SEM 181 with the rest of a person's <'ducation. There was a great deal of interest in B.F. Skinner's psychology this past semester, for <'Xample, and concern for education in a deep and com­prehensive way. Discussions of 'his kind help pull smaller and s<'parate projects together and relate them to more traditional modes of learning. 
The assignments in SEM 181 are kept light, in line with a one-credit declive, but the course is serious in its informality. The teaching seniors want students who are authentically concerned with the kinds of problems mentioned and 
ND profs publish research papers 
(continued from page 3) 
tivity" co-authored by Dr. George C'. Kuczynski, professor m<'tallurgical engineering and materials science. Their research describes how radiation can im­prove certain catalysts by making them more selective for the desired reaction. 
Luks will also present a paper on "modeling the Liquid State on a Molecular Basis," and Carberry is the co-author of a paper to be presented at the meeting titled "Effectiveness Factors in Three~ Phase R<'actors." Dr. Julius T. Banchero. chairman of the D<'partment of Chemical Engineering, will also attend the conference. 
Kellogg reports on progress 
(continued from page 4) 
--A national commission for the study of continuing education should be established. 
M<'mbers of the task force for the study of continuing education and the university include Dr. Howard 
H. Neville, 'chairman, executive Yice president for administration of the University of Nebraska; Dr. Willard L. Boyd, president of of the University of Iowa; Dr. Morton Gordon. chairman of continuing l'ducation and community development at the University of Michigan: Dr. Warren B. Martin, research educator and coordinator of development for Research and D<'velopment of fligher Education in B<'rkeley, Calif. 
Also on the force are: Dr. 0. M<'redith Wilson, presidi:mt for th<' Center for Advanced Study in the B<'havioral Sciences in Stan­ford. Calif.; Jerrold K. Footlick, f'ducation editor for Newsweek Magazine, and Miss Rosalind Loring, director of the Department of Daytime Programs and Special Projects for the University Ex­!f'nsion of UCLA. 
The complete study of continuing l'ducat ion and the future is scheduled to appear in book form in the spring. 
problem to the Board through our (continued from page 1) representative there." 
it to treat a couple of their friends The GSU will also continue to 
to a pizza, then obviously I would sponsor activities for the GSU as a 
be against its continuance." whole, despite the revenue 
Since this possibility exists, and sharing, said President Wessels. the program is only being run on a "I just hope it works," Wessels trial basis <it escaped defeat last summed up. "I hope the money is year in the Council by a thin sued wisely, and I hope to see grad margin)' only $500 has been students figuring out constructive allotted to it from the total GSU ways to spend it for their own treasury. benefit." 
"We don't want to put too many t'ggs in one basket," explained Wessels. "Otherwise, if we put in 
Baker 
more money and it fails, we 
'continued from page 9)
disband, and then waht's the Acutally, these parents arepurpose?" 
probably in for another diaap­Wessels also sees this revenue pointment. In the first palce,sharing as a "method to encourage practically all sons of Upperstudents who don't belong to GSU America who becom welders want to join." At the present time, six or only to become metal sculptors.
seven of the 28 grad school ·After their first three months in thedepartments are not represented woods they statt sending home on the graduate school council. 
compositions entitled "LifeAnd there is still a real need for Cycle", consisting of shovel blades graduate students to join the GSU, and adding-maching keys weledesaid Wessels. 
to automobile mufflers.
"This revenue sharing program On visits home they becometakes no emphasis away from the insulted if asked to go to the cellar GSU." he said. "We are still a and weld something practical, agrad student organization that can failing pipe perhaps, or a snappedrepresent all grads," and the body alaad fork. 
provides a force that each Many well-to-do parents havedepartment working on its own doubtless dreamed of having sonswould find difficult to match. 
become doctors. With a doctor inFor example, mentioned the family, it might be possible toWessels, the GSU is represented on have one's appendix removedseveral important school councils without having his entire estateand committees (including the confiscated by some hospitalBoard of Trustees), works to make cashier. This dream has faded inhousing more available at a lower many instances with a son's an­cost to grad students, has set up nouncement that he is leavingand maintains an academic Harvard and going to the woods togrievance system, and is credited become a plumber.
with much of the persuasion What should a father say at suchbehind the construction of Carroll a time, on the collapse of his hopeHall <which houses grad students), of circumenting hospital robbery? 
among other things. 
Heavy paternal advice is always"When a student is having traffic appropiate. Tell the boy, in theproblems, do you think the biology harsh old-fashioned styl~;~ "Whendepartment is going to go to the :vou get out there in those woods,Traffic Board?" asked Wessels. 
son. stay away from them candle"No. The GSU will take his makers." -· 
----------------------------~ 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 

Need ride to Bloomington, Ill. 
(I.S.U.l Dec. 1 . Call Jim 3274. 
Ride needed to Western Illinois University, Macomb or West on _1­80 to Moline, Galesbury area Friday Dec. 1 and back Sun. Dec. 3 if possible, call 6322. 
Needed . 2 USC football tix, call Ed 233-8071. 
Men and woman students needed to help get YWCA Home for Girls ready to open. Some jobs are: painting bunk beds, cleaning floors, moving furniture, etc. Supplies are at the home; just drop in and work. 520 North Lafayette. See Jay or JoAnn Powell. Or phone 233-9491 and ask tor Carol Wilken. 
Ride needed to Toledo or Bowling Green this weekend. Call 1101. 
NOTICES 
FINAL SCORE (1966) NOTRE DAME 51 

SOUTHERN CAL 0 "Never again will I be beaten by a Notre Dame team" 
John McKay 

Christmas Loans! Not due until January 19th. Morrissey Loan Fund. Open until Dec. 13, Mon­day-Friday 11:15-12:15. LaFortune Basement. 
Pandora's Books has gift ideas-for yourself or others -S.B. Ave at 
N.D. Ave. 
NDSMC VOLUNTEERS AT LOGAN CENTER: Saturday recreation on Dec. 2nd will begin at 12:00 not the usual 9:00. 
To score your tickets for the Thursday night CHEECH & CHONG concert at the Morris Civic, call 8253. Free posters! 
HELP the helpless unborn, with time, money, or both. Right-to Life, Inc. 233-4295. 
MEN WOMEN WORK ON A SHIP NEXT SUMMER! No expertence required. Excellent p·ay. Worldwide travel. Perfect summer job or career. Send $2.00 for information. SEAFAX Box 2049-1 G, Port Angeles, Washington. 98362. 
Every Friday at 4:55 a nd~-stop Greyhound leaves the Circle for Chicago. Call Tom Boyer 234-8259 for reservations. 
FOR SALE 

For Sale: small couch,. very 'omtortable, seats two, cal_l 1132. 
Noisemakers for sale. Send".name and telephone number to B~~ 685 ND, Indiana 46556. · 
i;: 

8 Southern Cal tickets for sale. Call 6511 or 7762. .• 
1967 Lotus Elan Coupe 25,ti,·mi. Excellent cond. $2275 -2if1432. 
t-.'• 

For sale 2 studded snow tires 7 .35X 14 very good condition; $35. 272-1428. 
Former Navy Officer has Uniforms for sale; call John 935­5214. Plymouth. 
LOST AND FOUND,:;t. 

Lost: one bracelet watch a~ one 
'73  SMC  Class  ring  (ME!l:'i,  on  
Death  March.  Phone:  :II  ~  or  
4770.  .  

Lost -14 K gold graduation·c!ih.arm Reward! 5464. 
Found: men's glasses ;j,ear library, Monday night. '32:11867. 
Deadline for all classified ads is 
1: oo  pm  the  day  before  
publication.  All  ads  must  be  
placed  in  person  and  must  be  
prepaid.  



-~-------~---------­
1 2 the observer Wednesday, November 29, 1972 
~~--~~~~~~~---
Maurauders down 
•
Stanford 28-0; w1n 
1-hall grid crown 
by Stan llrankar pass defense. "We started the gamP using a 4-3-4 to combat their Staunch lnterhall football fans 
long bomb threat," Salyer noted. agrt>l'd that the 1972 title was all 
'"But after the first series of downs, hut dl'cidl'd two weeks ago when 
Wf' Wf'nt back to our standard 4-4-3, Morrissey upset defending 
using a man-style zone to protect champion Dillon in overtime. 
against the bomb." Those stalwart supporters of the 
ThP Marauders jumped ahead campus gridiron were indeed Parly. with veteran quarterbackl'orn•ct as the Marauders went on Kirk Miller mixing his plays welllo mPthodically pick apart Stan­<'n route to an opening drive touch­. qu~rte;b~ck Kirk Miller, here in the semi-finals ~gainst Dillon, tossed ford. 28-0, in the Stadium finale. 

down. Tailback Paul Breen . 
gomg nowhere <they managed only , . .
Thl' gaml' was a· tribute to the scampered around left end for \l net yards in 10 attempts for the do-:vn .oss to Breen, thts ~1me from Gillig, Tom Long, Bob Carbone,post -season play of coach Ron sl'ven yards and the score, with dayl and Packer was forced to the ll ~ards out, an? reserve hneb_ack~r and Fran Finnegan. OtherMiller then hitting Breen on the

Salyt>r's South Quad champions. air. But with Marauder linemen ~<Irk Swenskl made good m hts mf'mbers of the squad included
their conversion attempt.

Aft<•r totally dominating Bill LaVigne, Kevin O'Neill, Dave ltrst _attempt as ~ ball carrier, Tim McCalley, Bill Murphy, Rich
slugfest with the Big Red, Early in the second stanza, Hammond·, and Mike White scootmg aroun~ nght. end for 24 Areont i. Jim Fister. EdMorrissey merely went through Miller capped another march with pouring on the pressure, the junior ya~ds ~nd the fmal pm_nts. . l:osluszny, Tim O'Neill, Bill Hake, rhf' motions in gaining the campus a six-yard scoring aerial to Breen. QB rarely had time to find his .I hke to take prtde m the <.reg Allare, Luetkemeyer, PaullTown that had been snatched from Halfback Tim Luetkemeyer number one target, wide receiver defense," ~alyer note~. "R!ch Furey. Craig Fowler, Jerrylllf'ir waiting hands in each of the 

grapped a two-point pass from Mike Pohlman. Sh:rman d~d a super JOb calhng Htchardson. Dan Ryan, Greglast two years. 
Miller. and Morrissey led, 16-0, at delens_n:e stgnals for us, and the Sosnovich, Wes Schroder. George Stan ford quarterback George rh<' half. Morrissey added a pair of in­front lour tall freshmen) were Brenfang, Tim Puntarelli John surance scores in the final session. just outstanding." Hargrave. George McLaou'ghlin,
l'<~ckf'r completed only six of 16 <~ttf'm_pts against the Morrissey The Stanford ground game was Miller once more fired a touch-"The team effort and the players KPvin O'Nf'ill, Jammond, White. rhemselves made us a winner this and LaVigne. ~·f'ar." the senior coach concluded. 
Wrestling slate begins tonight "With the great hall spirit and the IH bulletin 
overall leadership of our seniors, rpnacity and the inner strength Dave Boyer, another f'x-All State WP made a winner." Off-Campus students andb~· Lt•fty Husdunann twl'dl'd for a good team," ex-is listed as a starter at 142 pounds.' The seniors who provided the anyone else who has not returned 
Thl' Notrf' Dame wrestling team, plained the three-year coaching Dave's scholastic career included Pxperience for Morrissey's interhall football equipment should f('aturing an array of newcomers, Yeteran. a rotal of 78 wins, 42 of them champions were Miller, Breen, do so tonight from six to eight pm. opPns rts 1!!72-73 campaign tonight Last year's 11-4 season which coming by pins. Bob Latta, a Sherman. Swenski, Joe Holzmer, Thl' turn-ins may be made at the .rgainst Valparaiso at the Convo includes 26 team records, one of native of McKeesport, Pa., will fill Dan Rork, Tex Cochran, Ken stadium. at gate 11. <'<•ntf'r. rhl'm a single-game home at-rn at both 167 and 177 pounds. The 
ThP Crusaders, who should rendance mark, may appear fourth member of the freshman provide stiff eompetition for Terry difficult to improve upon. But quarted, Lou DiPasquale, h'-Hi Mike T. makes his mark MathPr's Irish. put up a stubborn Mather's optimism is not without compiled a 45-3log in high school ..1 
That other Townsend, Mike, isn't back out of the backfield. It went 40haft le last year before succumbing reason.as four grant-in-aid fresh-Ben irck. Pa., and figured in only Willie's brother anymore. yards for a touchdown. I watch for !o Notrl' Dame bv a 28-17 score. In-tnf'n have joined the squad. They Mather's plans at 142 or 150 Mike, Notre Dame's junior that play now."
juriPs and inexperiences may ligu~e to be i_nstrumental in poun~s. However, a knee injury defensive back from Hamilton, The education continued through prove a handicap in some weight hf'etmg up chromcally weak spots sustamed m pre-season workouts Ohio. is quickly establishing an Mike's sophomore year withdassPs. but Coach Mather remains in :he Notre Dame lineup. will sideline Lou for the next si~ identity of his own this year with master teachers Clarence Ellis,eonfidPnt. not only of a win tonight, Mike Delmage, a forml'r Iowa Wf'eks. 
seven interceptions, most of them Mike Crotty and Ralph Stepaniak. 
hut of an outstanding season. "We high school champion, will handle Other newcomers to this year's spectacular catches that rival "I learned a lot by not playing lasthave an outstanding team with the 'he troublesome 167-poind class. Irish squad include Mark Willie's best efforts at split end. ~·ear," Mike admits. "Coach
• h '-1 • b Q h . Honquille. a 118-pound sophomore 
I<~veryone that follows Notre Dame tPaull Shoults had me learn all the IrIs Gt I m t0 1 t In Ap t rom Puerto Rico, and Fedal Vipe, football knows that the Irish have positions, and I did learn a lot from 
a Nl'w Yorker, who will handle the 

!itle and a spot in the prestigious two distinctly different, talented Clarence. He was my star, and I
l>l'spite some upsets in the 134-pound duties. Thanksgiving weekend card of Hose Bowl by tripping previously This strong contingent of Townsends, but it wasn't always wanted to know what made 
that way. Clarence Clarence.
l'ollege football games, Notre unbeaten Michigan, 14-11, before nl'wcomers joins a strong nucleus "He showed me one afternoonI>aml' was able to climb just one almost 90,000 fans in Columbus. ot returnees, which Mather "I've always been in Willie's while I was playing split end on thenotch in the season's next-to-last l'<•nn State, who will face describes as the "core people". shadow. and Payton's too," Mike prep team," Mike remembers.
Associated Press major college Oklahoma in the Sugar Bowl on Claiming that their attitude of says of his older and oldest "On the f.irst play, he hit mefootball rankings. Only Louisiana Nf'w Year's Eve, rolled after mental toughness has touched of a brothers. "It was always like that across the-face with a forearm and Sratl'. which played to a 3-3 tie hapless Pittsburgh and moved into "snowball effect," Mather ex­until senior year in high schools, knocked me down. That taught mewith Florida. fell from the Top rhP fifth spot. Southwestern plained that "rhis toughness and then Willie was gone to Notre to look for and avoid a forearm."
T('n, mabling the Irish to climb Conference champion Texas philosophy has gotten to the fresh­Dame. In the beginning here," "But 1 learned something from
onl' spot to tenth. likewise humbled Texas A & M last mm and created a great unity-­Mike continues, "everyone thought all three. Clarence taught me howSouthern California and Thursday and rose to sixth. ('sprit d'corps to go along with the the same person was playing of­to bump a receiver and slow him
Alabama. the nation's only two Michigan fell to seventh, and skill factor." fense and defense. Now I think it's down. Mike taught me how to readr<>maining major undefeated, Bob Devaney's Cornhuskers Sophomore Bill Moran, who will <'Stablished pretty well that there the offensive line, and Ralphuntied t<>ams. once again topped likPwise remained in theTopTen at wrestle at 177, drew special praise are two of us." 
helped me tackle in the openlhf' WPf'kly balloting of a nation­('ighth. despite an 8-2-1 regular from Coach Mather for his It isn't easy to follow a suc­~ld."
wide panel of sportswriters and season record. Auburn climbed renacity. Moran, unable to land a cessful brother. and it was doubly 'Mike has also learned to applybroadcasters. The Trojans, who one notch to ninth, and the Irish starting berth last season, em­tough for Mike. Brother Payton his basketball ,skills to football.
are tenth. than 60 points of on intensive
fal'f' Notre Dame in their annual more barked an summer played college basketball at South­"When I'm playing· a receiver,"hattie this weekend. polled 46 of a L.S.U. r raining program which enabled west Lousiana ("He was the best Mike explains, "it's like playing apossible 50 first-place ballots, BPsides the nationally televised him to earn a starting role. Mather basketball player of the three of guard one-<>n-<>ne in basketball.
which the Cotton Bowl-bound ND-Southern Cal battle, two other said of the Ketchikan, Alaska us," Mike brags with brotherly You play the man until the ball Crimson Tide grabbed thed the gaml's between intrastate native. that "almost any other guy affection l and is now playing comes. and then you play the ballrPmaining four first-place votes. nationally-ranked rivals are on tap would have quit after being professional basketball in Mexico and forget about the man."
rhis wPekend. Alabama will look disappointed last season, but not despite being drafted by the New Mike has done that well with
Last Wl'ek 's upsetters, 

for their 11th straight victory as Bill Moran." 
Oklahoma and Ohio State, climbed rhey play host to once-beaten Co-captain Mike Kemp, a ver­York Knicks of the National seven interceptions, but he owes 
Basketball Association. his sandlot football days a thank­to third and fourth. rl'spl'ctively . 
Auburn. Meanwhile. third-seeded satile performer who saw action in you for the spectacular way inThe Sooners knocked off defending Oklahoma l'ntertains old rival live different weight classes last Willie, of course, besides being which he's picked off several
national champion Nebraska, 17-14 Notre Dame's leading receiver,
Oklahoma State, which snuck into ~·ear. was slated to wrestle at 158 passes this year.
on Thanksgiving Day, and the :his season before being forced out was the inspirational leader of last
the ratings at the 20th position. 

"We used to play on a confined
Buckeyes captured the Bi.g Ten year's young basketball team. And
DPspite a deceptive 6-4 mark, the due to a knee injury. Replacing field, "Mike explains. "There was
:=;;;::::~":=:::;:;:::~;;:;:~:;:;:;:~:~:~:;:;=~======:==·n··~~:::::!!:::=:~!;:t~ Cowboys a·re capable of an upset, hrm will be Rich Gilloon, a junior whfre Willie has gone, Mike has
:·.· J. ;;:; foH~~d-successfully. "I was a a building on one side and a street
with t:~th rated Colorado already from Dubuque, Iowa, who won on another, so you couldn't go outill~ 1mmy t e ~= among their list of victims. rhe pre-season "Iron,Man" award, split l''ftd in high school, too, but I of bounds if you wanted to. You had
~ ~ The rankings: which honored his outstanding self­rame as a defensive back at Notre 
X· to twist and turn in the area you
·:·~ k Dame." says Mike. "I didn't play
~ G. x~ sacrifice. The Top Twfnty. w1th first-place 
·==· . . r. .. . . ::::· The 126-pound assignment goes much defensive back in high had."
~ ::. -~::::::::::::::.:-::::::::::§:§::::::::::::::::::::::::::~ he adds 'comically, Most of Mike's interceptions
votes in parentheSf's, season records ro the other Irish co-captain, junior school,"
College games and total pmnts. Points tabulatt•d on Mike Martin. of Brick Town, New "bl'cause the coach didn't want me have come late in the season. "I 
basis ol20-18-11).14-12-11).9-8-7-6:5-4-3·2·.!.,i_ · ' was scared and nervous at first,"
to get hurt."

((') 1!172 Nt>w York Tinws I. Sout~m Calilom~a (461 10·0·0 9911 Jf'rsey. AI Rocek, another 
he admits, "because I knew 
Jl,;a,·~· by 7 over Army 2. Alabama 14) lfJ.I)-0 890 holdover who normally competes Mike didn't get hurt learning
3. Oklahoma 9-1.0 700 everyone back home in Hamilton
Boston <'nllt>gt> by 10 over Holy 4. Ohio State 9-1·0 597 at 190 pounds, will handle the how to play the position as a fresh­was watching me." ~-Penn State UH-0 563 hf'avyweight chores. With Mike burned,
<'ross 6. Texas !1-1·0 494 Fanning due man. but he did get "Hami !ton really isn't that big,
(;<•orgia Tech even against unavailable to bumped and ecuated.
7. Michigan 10-I.(J 4Ri and a lot of the kids back there 
11-2·1 loot ball Rocek,
( :t•m·gia 8 1\lfbraska 419 practice. the "I had an awful lot to learn," he don't think they have a chance to 
Flnl'ida by 7 over Miami <Fla.) 1. Auburn s-1-0 323 Omaha-, Nebr. junior, will take 
10. Notre Dame S.I·O 3fJ6 remembers, "and llearned a lot of make it big anywhere. They think l'Pnnessee by 22 over Vanderbilt II. LoUisiana Stall'. S.l·l 249 oYer at heavyweight. it my first freshman game against the world doesn't have anything
.\lab:una by '14 over Auburn 12. Tennesse .............. 1>-2·0 215 Overall. Mather describes his 
151 Michigan. I got suckered on a hook for them, and it does. There a re
13. Colorado 's-:..o

I .ouisiana St. by 10 over Tulane ream as "outstanding on paper,
14. North Carolina ..... 9-1·0 81 by the tight end, the easiest play alot of good athletes back there, 
1)k Ia hum n by 20 over Oklahoma St. 15. UCLA . ............. 11-3-0 70 but I hope they perform that well 
for a defensive back to be suckered and I want them to see that if I can 
S.M.U. by 2 over Texas Christian 11. Arizona State . . . . . . . . . ~ 9-2-0 50 on thl' mats." Valparaiso stands to on. There I was, in with the tight make it. they can make it, too."
17 Louisville .9-1·0 22Iowa St. by 20 over San Diego St. 18 West Virginia . . .. ....... 8-3-0 13 offer the Irish a stern test of their Pnd, there was the ball, way over All the kids back in Hamilton, ifSontlwm ('alifornia by 14 over It. Washington Statr 7-4-0 II ability tonight at 7:30, in the ACC my head. I wondered where it was they're watching Mike, have 
a
211. Oklahoma Stare . . . . . . &-4-0 10

Notre Dame auxiliary gym. 
going, and then I found out-to a good example to follow. 
a pml' of sconng passes in the Interhall title game against Stanford. 

Ill--­




