


if that groundhog ever makes it through the snow today, he should predict a short winter. somehow we can't seem to believe that... 
serving the notre dame -st. mary's communiiy
Vol. VI, No. 69 Wednesday, February 2, 1972 


Student government 1nerger hopes dim for April election 
by Joe Powers 
Chances for a merger between student governments appears doubtful at the present time as discussion of the issues gets under way this week in the Notre Dame Senate and the SMC Assembly. 
Stay Senators Bob Sauer and Fred <;iuffrida have both come out in support of Student Body President John Barkett's view that there is a need for separate representation so long as the schools are not unified.. Calling the merger "un­feasible", Giuffrida claimed t.hat the only advantage of a joint student government would be "the psychological benefit arising from the show of unity it (a ml'rger \ would entail." 
Saint Mary's SBP Kathy Barlow termed the merger proposal as "merely a technical point". Barlow stated that while she was not against the proposal, she could not foresee its immediate usefulness. 
Both schools are considering an alter­native to total merger, in the form of a joint <'lection of candidates to student govern­nwnt positions. 
Ed Ellis, Chairman of the Research and l>f'velopment Committee, outlined one of the proposals presently being considered hy the Notre Dame Student Government. l lnder this system the two student governments would remain autonomous but candidates would ally themselves int~ party blocks or coalitions, sharing the same goals. 
"This system has a number of possibilities," Ellis explained, "but the only way of assuring cooperation between the ~wo student bodies is by having two pres1dents and two vice-presidents who are striving in the same direction." This would involve party blocks consisting of four i~dividuals elected as a group by the combmed ND-SMC student bodies. 
An alternative to this plan is to have separate elections on the two campuses wh1le still making it mandatory for the candidates to align themselves in party blocks which will share mutual goals. A final alternative to this system of joint elections would be to leave the matter of political alignment up to the individual £'andidates. 

The Student Senate will meet Thursday night at 7:00 in the Amphitheatre of the LaFortune Student Center. Included in the 
Students oppose move 
SMC reps off SLC 
In a letter to Student Life Council Chairman William Eagan. Rev. James T. Burtchaell, t'.S.C., university provost, directed the Council to terminate St. Mary's College representation on it. 
Dated December 9, but not distributed to SLC membership until yesterday, Fr. Burtchaell's letter stipulates, "The Student Life Council had ~nco~porated members from St. Mary's College m v1ew of prospective unification." 
"Since that eventuality is no longer before us it is inappropriate for St. Mary's representative~ to sit on a deliberative body for the University. Therefore, their membership should be ter­minated as of Dec. 1." 
"On the otherhand, it appears to me to be an option of the Council to establish whatever liason arrangements it wishes in order to assure that cooperation hitherto achieved may not be lost." 
Student Towers' representative Floyd Kezele is sponsoring a proposal that would negate the directive. 
Describing the problem that has plagued every SLC as "simply that the SLC has never bothered to define itself," student representatives at a caucus last week admitted that they failed during the first semester. 
In a public statement written by Kezele and Bichard Urda, South Quad SLC representative, the student caucus placed the blame for the SLC first semester failures upon the members of the committees who have failed to fulfill their responsibilities. 
"A large part of this blame must be shouldered by the student members," said the report. "We did not provide the initiative to make the com­


Burtchaell: "Inappropriate for
mittees work. For the most part, committee 
St. Mary's representatives" to sit
meetings were held infrequently or not at all." 
on SLC.
University vice-president and general counsel Philip J. Faccenda, resigned as chairman of the planning committee. SLC representatives had suggested in December that Faccenda either resign or appoint a vice-chairman. His com­mittee, which did not meet at all first semester elected John Cullen, North Quad representative' as its new chairman. ' 
The steering Committee, chaired by SLC vice­chairman Floyd Kezele, has postponed the monthly _meeting of the body by two weeks, and has ass1gned all four standing committees substantial workloads, according to Kezele. 
Kezele also said he plans to introduce several proposals personally at the next meeting. The first deals with an SLC override power to balance the veto of the Vice-President for Student Affairs. 
The second proposal would give the SLC override power to balance the veto of the llniversity Board of Trustees. 
The Hules & regulation committee will produce a complete evaluation of the Judicial System. 1970-72. Requested by the Board of Trustees, this report will be forwarded to its March meeting after SLC approval. 
Additional assignments for the committee include a response to Mr. John Koval'~ suggestions concerning the judicial boards· the traffic appeals board and electrical appli~nce fines in dormitories. 

Steering committee members also requested the Hall Life Committee, headed by Buz Imhoff to report at the February meeting on "Life in the Kezele: "SLC never bothered to 

Halls: In View of the Trustees rejection of SLC 
define itself."
proposals of this past fall." 
. They must also formulate a philosophy of hall hfe. and explore possibilities for establishing experimental halls. 
Planning Committee assignments include implem<>ntation of a program for female health services and a program to guarantee displaced per_sons a ch_ance at decent university housing if the1r dorm IS chosen for coeducation. 

business conducted will be the presen­tation of the Student Government first 

Draft paranoia? semester budget. 
? 

::::::::::::::::::::::·::::::;:::~:~:;:~:~:~:::::~=~=~=~:::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: The lottery is today, y1cnow •••
• 

Mock Convention 


The LOST GENERATION 


Demo Chairman coming 
by Jim McDermott any of the candidates to address 
An appearance by Democratic the convention. Andrus ex­
National Committee Chairman nlained that this was necessary in 
Lawrence O'Brian will highlight fairness to any candidate unable 
a Mock Democratic Convention to speak. Candidates that will be 
planned for April 24 to 27 on the on campus or in South Bend at the 
Notre Dame campus. __ time will be invited to speak 
The convention, to be held in elsewhere on campus, however. Stepan Center, is designed to give The Mock Democratic Con­students a view of the vention at Notre Dame follows presidential nomination process. The Indiana primary will be a week after the convention. 
Eric Andrus, co-ordinator for the project, will start the process of selecting delegates and can­didate managers this month. The managers will first meet Feb. 10, and sign-ups for the 1000 delegates will start in the dining halls and Huddle on Feb. 21. 
Prospective delegates will not be required to represent their states of residence. A one dollar fee will be required of all par­ticipants. 
The convention will be organized similarly to the Democratic convention to be held in Miami, although it will be scaled down for logistical reasons. Since the delegates will be selected ahead of the meeting of the convention, Andrus hoped that the time would be useful for the committees, especially the platform committee. 
Although the convention will meet at the height of the cam­A Mock Convention similar to the paigning for the Indiana 1964 one pictured above will be primary, there are no plans for held at Stepan Center in April. 
The Best Thing you can do for your marriage 
MARRIED COUPLES WEEKEND 

Fatima Retreat House -Notre Dame 
Feb. 25, 26, 27 Free Babysitter~ 
Cost, $40 per couple ... or negotiable call Fr. Reidy 282-8940 before 10:00 A.M. Pat or John Ferrar 272-5595. 
We want to talk to you about a career in law . .. without law school. 
When you become a Lawyer's Assistant, you'll be doing work traditionally done by lawyers -work we think you'll find challenging and responsible. And Lawyer's Assistants are now so critically needed that The Institute for Paralegal Training can offer you a position in the city of your choice and a higher salary than you'd expect as a recent college graduate. You'll work with lawyers on interesting legal problems -and the rewards will grow as you do. 
A representative of The Institute for Paralegal Training will conduct inter­views on: 
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 9 
Inquire at Placement Office for exact locatior ~t interview 
NOTE: If registration for th. seminar is filled, come anyway-we'll try to talk to you. Or call us collect at the number shown below. 
The Institute for Paralegal Training 
13th floor. 401 Walr~ut St. Phila. Pa. 19106 (215) WA 5-0905 

The Observer is pub\ ished daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556, second class postage paid. Notre Dame. Ind. 46556. 
several seasons of Republican conclaves. In 1964, Henry Cabot Lodge was nominated, and in 1968, Mark Hatfield received the Convention's nod. 
Organizers of the convention, in addition to Andrus are: Joe Brehler, Bob Ohlemiller, Dave Burch, and Steve Flavin, Student Union Academic Commissioner. 
Photo) 
Notre Dame Knights of Columbus 
FOR INFORMATION & RESERVATIONS CONTACT ­
Bill Kelley
Chuck Hamilton
Bob Atkinson Romy Hammes FordlandJordan Motors, Inc. Joe Hayden, Inc. 
244 South Olive
1102 South nth Street
609 East Jefferson Blvd. 
South Bend, Indiana 46621Mishawaka, Indiana 46554 Niles, Michigan 49120 
(219) 289-40411219) 259-1981 (616) 683-3920 


RENT·A·CAR 
For students and faculty 21 and over. 



vvorld 
briefs 
>c> l!li2 Nt>w York Times 

London-The political truce inHouse of Commons over the Irish question broke Tuesday when the Labor Party, dl'manding tht the security of Northern Ireland be controlled directly from London, forced a vote. Although the con­servatives carried the division, the mood of the debate was l"l'miniscent of the feelings over the Irish question of 50 years ago. 
l.unclondt•rr)· --Roman Catholic areas of Londonerry were consumed with sorrow over the killings of 13 persons by the British Army there on Sunday. Stores, factories, and Roman ('atholic schools were closed and black flags hung over the stn•p!s. IntPrmixed with the sorrow, however, was a mood of frantic vengence against the British. 
lluhlin --Anti British protests intensified throughout the HPpublic of Ireland with the British embassy in Dublin one of lhP maon targets of the demonstrators again. Workers at Dublin airport refused to handle British aircraft, forcing British European airways to cancel all flights to Dublin. 
Washington --A State Department official said that the curn•nt round of Soviet-American negotations on the limitatio of strategic arms will end on Friday without an agrePment, but in a mood of optimism. The next round, which is expected to be the decisive one, will be held in I ll'lsinki in March. 
Washington --A $1.3-billion rural development credit fund was proposed by President Nixon in an attempt to stem the migration of people to the cities by promoting the econoflliC growth of the countryside. The program would consist mainly of federal loan guarantees, sc per cent of which would lw administered by the States. 
on campus today 
10:00-4: 00--exhibit and sale, graphic art, o'shag art gallery 
2: 00--lecture,william hodge, the death of a potawatomi village. carroll hall 
7:00--lecture, fr. james burtchaell , st. ed's hall 
8:00--lecture, william hodge, navajo urban migration from the perspective of the family, carroll hall 
nd-smc 






SENIOR BAR 
Pre Mardi-Gras Warm Up Live Music Featuring 
Chapped Lips 
Thurs. Feb. 3 9 -2 All Proceeds Go To Happy Day Care Center 

Relllinder 
Happy Hour Wed. & Fri. 
4:00 -6:00 
25' -beer 35¢ -shot 
Sat. 7:00-9:00 10' Beer 



SENIOR BAR 

Pa 3 

THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 

Editor-in-Chief, Glen S. Corso Assistant Editor .\ssistant Editor 
T.C. Treanor All successful newspapers are John Abowd ceaselessly querulous and bellicose. They never c::fend
Rusiness Manager anyone or anything if they can help .\dvertising :\lanager 
Jim Jendryk it: if the job is forced upon them. Bill Bauerle they tackle it by denouncing someone or something else. 
H.L. Mencken 


Call it Back. 
Back when merger hopes were at their grimmest-during the first few cold days of December-University Provost James T. Burtchaell, C.S.C. sent a letter to SLC Chairman William Egan, telling him, in so many words, to terminate St. Mary's par­ticipation in that council's operations. It was sad that the move was made-it was sad that the move bad to be made. In fact, the whole unmerger mess was sad. But so it goes. 
Now, though, things have been straightened out. Or, at least, are on their way towards being straightened out. St. Mary's still has a stake in this University; still has a stake in student life. What they SLC does will be important to St. Mary's, since the SLC will be logically obliged to deal with more than a few of the myriad of problems the merger will bring. 
Itwould therefore make good sense for Fr. Burtchaell to call his letter back, or to cancel it out. It would help ease some of the current Notre Dame -St. Mary's bitterness. It would in­stantaneously provide the two schools with an already established mutual-representation board over which they could discuss the terms of whatever bargain they try to strike. And it would be the best, and fairest, deal for both schools. 

The Staff 
Nite Editor: Joe Abell (again?) 
Ass't Nite Editors: MariaGallagher, Anthony Abowd 
Special Help: John Abowd 
Headlines: Don Biancamano 
Sporting Ediotr: Jim Donaldson Features Editor: Marty Miller Day Editor: Bill Sohn 
Typists: Debbie Gras, Mark Neiderkorn, Ginna Smith, Barb Norcross Nite Controller: Helen Smudski and a cast of thousands of editors 
1. apologies to john dacey, first lineman-of-the-week --congrats, dace 2.f-line is just one bfd, right tim? 
3. 
will this mess ever end? 

4. 
how was the game, gary and bill? 



Ed Ellis-----------­
variations on a Circus 
The student body presidential elections for both Notre Dame and 
Saint Mary's are due in just about four weeks, and as yet, there has 
heen no decision b_:~ ~ither current Student Government concerning the 
relative merger-unmerger ability of the respective structures. 
Some sort of decision may be made this week when the Notre Dame 
Student Snate meets.llowever if the Senate session is anywhere near 
ts materially productive as the latest SMC Assembly meeting, we 
may be waiting a few more weeks before the final structure is an­
nounced. As of now, no negotiating committees have been set up, 
either jointly or separately. The two SBP's have met once to discuss 
the situation. 

This, of course, brings us to the heart of the problem: com­
munication between the two student governments has been negligible 
this year, particularly at the top levels. John Barkett and Kathy 
Harlow are two good presidents, but they are nowhere near each other 
in style, philiosophy, priorities, or personality. During the SMC un­
merger protest, this problem became even more acute but it has 
existed all year. 

This, of ::ourse is not to fault either party, or even to fault both, but 
merely to indicate that the setup next year must be different, and most 
people in both student governments realize this. 
Several methods for insuring the required cooperation have been 
advanced. 

First is the possibility of total merger. All but the most stubborn 
proponents of the merger gave up on this idea way back last 
Oecember when the nuns tripped on the red carpet. Logistics, per­sonalities, and common sense all forbid the operation of one student group in two distinct administrative machines, despite the glamour of the idea. 
Second we cim consider the possibility of total nonmerger. This would entail pretty much the same election as last year. The ..;trength of this idea is adaptability to changing circumstances. Its weakness is that two strangers could very easily be elected and another com­munications breakdown could result. One may recall the assurances of both candidate Barkett and candidate Barlow that they would cooperate fully with each other. They clearly haven't and so the present system appears inadequate. 
A third possibility is that of mandatory joint candidacy. This would require that all candidates run in pairs of tickets, so as to insure that each ND candidate would be able to work with someone at SMC and vice-versa. The catch is that the winning girlsfrom Party A could find themselves working with guys from PartyB, Cor D. Only good luck and good managementcombined could insure complete cooperation. This plan, however has the advantge of requiring that each set of candidates at least demonstrate their willingness to cooperate by the gesture of joining with candidates from the other campus. The gesture seems more powerful than a mere statement or promise. 
There is an interesting variation of this third plan that certainly bears some extensive consideration. Both the unmerger option and the joint candidacy option treat the East and West Campuses as two separate and distinct entities. Reality might blur these lines of distinction somewhat, and a classification better suited to reality might be that we should elect four officers to four separate jo We then consider the campuses as one, working to a common goal, dif­ferentiating between the two systems because both males and females need someone familiar with their respective systems in order to 
provide the best service. 
We merely place four people on a ticket, two males, and two females. All students work together (is is assured since they will be running together), but in separate systems. 
This last form of merger eliminates many of the problems of the others. but of course may appear a bit unattractive politically to many candidates. 
In any event, the Senate ought to be encouraged to work hard on this prohh'm. since it will be of vital importance to the future of the merger of the two schools. 
THE· OBSERVER f:tage 5 
Don Mooney 
The death of Student Power 
When the Student Body President and, or the Observer claim that Notre Dame 
"isn't ready" for Co-ed dorms, they might bother to explain what they mean. If they themselves aren't ready, maybe they should take a walk back to prep school. If they feel a Co-{!d dorm is in the interest of present and future students, maybe they should start moving on the idea, rather than granting all action to those clics who are (of course) wiser. The pitiful resignation of student government and all other vocal "student leaders" to the will of the benevolent administration of the issue of a female dorm is the final example of student government's long an­ticipated death as a vocal, aggressive advocate of student interests. 
Since last spring it was clear that females would be living on this campus by September 1972. But not once did the Student Body President attempt to develop support for a Co-{!d Dorm system on this campus. The statement that Notre Dame is "Not ready" is an admission that Notre Dame is years behind the pace of other major institutions who compete with Notre Dame for top students, and instructors. The Universities of Chicago, Michigan, Ohio, Pennsylvania, and dozens more have extensive Co-ed dorm programs. Georgetown U., which was all male four years ago, now has Co-{!d dorms and 24 hour parietals. Arguments for Co-{!d dorms might be obvious to most students. At any rate, I won't go into them here. The point is that student government has given up the fight before it was begun, in the name of reality. This type of "pragmatism" is antithetical to the philosophy used by student government in the three previous years--years that brought unprecedented change in student life at Notre Dame. Four years ago, !<'ather Hesburgh said that parietal hours would never come to ND dorms as long as he was President. Luckily, three student body presidents refused to accept the administration's version of the plausible. This year's student government is a bit too gullible, and has been convinced to see Notre Dame through that proverbial rear view mirror. There are many examples. 
John and Orlando sided with Riehle and Facenda, and not the majority of students and faculty over the horribly controversial issue of seating a girl on the SLC. (By abstaining. l 
When the Trustees overruled the SLC and canceled dorm parties and looser parietals, the student government suggested that dormies show "respon­sibility" and wait a few years. 
Last year the Student Body President promised (if elected) to merge student government."immediately". Now, in a recent Observer interview, he says that Student government can not be merged until after the two institutions are merged. The failure of students to act as one organized unit during the recent merger crisis clearly shows the need for a com­mittment to unity that transcends existing structures. 
But the merger crisis itself brings out St. Mary's women to save the merger from the "inevitable", that Notre Dame men were prepared, by their "leaders", to accept. 

There are more examples. Student Government has accepted the promises of the Trustees for Hall renovations, etc. They forget that the Krashna ad­ministration received the same promises­for the student center and the South Dining Hall as well. Where was the follow up on llws(' committments? Plans to renovate the student center seem to have been abandoned in hopes for a new Student 
Russe II Baker 



Wake up, 
((') l!li2 New York Times New Service 
Washington, Jan. 31 -It is now obvious that the North Vietnamese are not going to get a peace settlement unless they make allowance for the ancient American concept of "face." 
In the American culture, loss of "face" is among the very worst things that can happen to a person; it is in a class with having your income-tax return audited. 
When an American loses "face," everybody laughs at him and says he "has e~~ on his ~hin." When this happens, the 
the most glaring failure of this years· ngtd AmeriCan code of honor makes c~uel student "leadership". student Govern-demands. The only way an Amertcan ment and the hall presidents sat back as who has lost face can atone for the years of work by other students was disgrace to his ancestors is by giving up threatened. It took the determination of hamburgers for forty days. 
The night before the lottery 
'Twas the night before the draft lottery and all through the dorm, not a 1-A was booking through that secret storm. 
The crucifixes were hung on their necks with great fear, in hopes that Uncle Sam would not find them there. 
)

My roomate and I lay awake in our beds while visions of Vietnam danced in our heads. And he with his back and I with flat feet, tried to relax but could not fall asleep. 
When out on the quad there rose such a clatter I sprang from my bunk in fear of the matter. Away to the window I few with great speed, knocked over the Boones Farm while doing the deed. 
The moonlight that fell upon the quad's dirty snow threw an austeer light upon objects below. When what to my shivering eyes should this mean, hut Uncle Sam and his eight Limousine. 
With a little old driver so lively and trick, I knew in a flash it must be St. Nix. More rapid than tax men in April they came, hundreds of thousands compelled by the game. And he whistled and shouted and called them by name: now 27, now 34, now 76, I'II get ahead of this game or my name ain't St. Nix! 
To the foyer below, to the elevator and hall, now draft away, draft away, draft away all! 
So up to my room with muscles they came with a bagful of numbers to play the big game. As I shook in my bed and turned around, my door was blown open with a gun-shot-like sound. 
Ih• was dressed all in stripes from his head to his foot, his compassion and integrity was covered with soot. A bundle of numbers he had on his back lw lookl'd like a hangman as he opened his pack. 
ll1s ('yes how they burned me! A face so cruel, his sil('nf majority left me a fool. lit' had a d('formed body--a little square belly that shook when lw laughed like a shoebox full of money. 

lie was wicked and mean, the remains of some wreck, had I any sense I would have fled to Quebec. 
A wink of his eye, a turn of his drum from out of his game bag my number had come. A computer card from out of his head told me I had only two years to dread. 
liP spoke not a word, but worked all that day recruiting January, February, March and May. 
When all of the numbers were given to each one, lw seemed rathPr sorry about the work he had done. :\hove his cold heart he lay his left hand, <'ried he: it's not a just cause, but I'm only one man. 
liP sprang to his Limousine--to where he had parked it <llld drove away with his friends like thieves from a market. :\nd llward him say as he disappeared from my sight: 
llappy Birthday to all and to all a short life!! 
Skip Niemit'c <'lass of '7!i 

Center -to be built some time in the future 
when the University sees fit. 

I have almost written this column a 
number of times. I hope I've written as 
someone who once worked in a student 
government committed to making Notre 
Dame a University that exists for its 
students, not its Alumni, administrators, 
or Image. It is timely because students 
will soon have a chance to either pick a 
student government willing to represent 
the students in a forceful way, or throw 
some more dirt on the concept of student 
power. 


Hanoi 
Rather than accept this fate, Americans 
will go to any extreme to save face. 
Knowing this, smart nations never put 
Americans in a position where their face 
may be lost. Instead, they gracefully 
surrender any momentary advantage they 
may have, and let the grateful Americans 
in return do wonderful things for them. 
The fact is that the United States is eager to get out of the war and will do so if offered a few face-saving concessions from Hanoi. Hanoi doesn't even have to surrender. All we ask is that it quit fighting, return our prisoners of war and stand at attention when "The Star Spangled Banner" is played. 
Hanoi seems to think these are unreasonable terms, but this is probably because it does not understand how much the United States is prepared to do in return for having its face saved. In fact, the administration has a full program of concessions it will make immediately if North Vietnam accepts President Nixon's peace terms. 
First, Hanoi will be given a franchise in the National Football League. A domed stadium seating 80,000 persons, equipped with copper gutters to carry off the monsoon downpours, will be built with 

..
capital provided by three Texas billionaires who have dedicated their lives to propagating the philosophy, "Make football, not war." 
Second, Billy Graham will lead a thirty­day crusade in Haiphong, Vientiane, Luang Prabang or any other major city of Hanoi's choice. 
Third, President Nixon will ask Congress for a special supplemental ap­
propriation to make it possible for Hanoi to obtain Kentucky Fried Chicken franchise installations at seven-mile intervals from the demilitarized zone to the Chinese Border. 
Fourth, Professor Henry Kissinger will make a highly publicized secret visit to Hanoi. 
Fifth, on the day the fighting stops, President Nixon will make a telephone call to the locker room of the North Viet­namese Central Committee and congratulate Premier Pham Van Dong on finishing Number two. 
If Hanoi were willing to swallow its pride and surrender, of course, Washington would show its gratitude in far more substantial ways. As Germany and Japan attest in their quarter -of -a -century progress from surrender to triumph , the road to the championship begins with an unconditional surrender to Uncle Sam. 
Precisely what the U.S. might do in return for an unconditional surrender is uncertain, but there is some sentiment here for setting Hanoi up in the steel in­dustry on a scale that would permit it to dominate the American Market within the decade. 
The livelier prospect is for a vast aid program to the North Vietnamese bicycle industry, which has shown great capacity during the war, and which, with sufficient Anwrican capital, could probably take over the American bicycle market within three years. 
llanoi's future could be bright, if its leaders but saw the light. Even a Disneyland is not out of the question. 


Page 6 THE OBSERVER 
No student deferments 

Frosh with low numbers will go 
by Jim Dixon Assistant Dean Dr. Richard Thompson, a member of the South Bend draft board, last night asserted that "A freshman cannot count on completing his undergraduate program with a low random selection number." Thompson spokt: in Farley as a guest of the Farley Hall Academic Commission. "So far as freshmen are con­cerned.. .if he's in school, he becomes draft eligible January 1, 1972. Nobody is going to be touched this year of that group whose numbers are drawn tomorrow." According to Thompson, " ...the legislation has been altered so that there is no more discrimination in favor of students." The eligibility period for fresh­men classified 1A today will extend for fifteen months beginning January 1, 1973 The phasing out ·of student deferments and other changes 
are part of the new draft law signPd in September. 1971. The provisions of the law include a uniform national call, elimination of parental and most occupational deferments, and the creation of a 1-11 category. The 1­H category will be " ... simply a holding category for those who are not going to be called," ac­cording to Thompson. 
Upperclassmen with 2-S deferments will have to complete one-fourth of their degree requirements each year in order to maintain their present status, the assistant dean said. Those seniors with 2-S deferments will recieve physicals in April and May of their senior year and can then be inducted according to lottery number in their birth year. 
Doctor Thompson also con­tended that there may be "some difficulty" in applying for CO status since the application forms for this category are being rewritten at this time. Still one 

Student life research to include spending poll 
Dr. Robert Ackerman, Assistant Dean of Students, and John Barkett, the Student Body President, have been working on a survey to determine the per­ceptions of and attitude toward campus environment, since last November. 
On April 29, 1971, the Student Life Council recommended that a "comprehensive study of all facets of student life be un­dertaken". 
At a subsequent meeting of the Board of Trustees this proposal .. was approved and the study 
authorized. 
Father Hesburgh turned over responsibility for the project to Father Butchaell, University Provost, and Father Blantz, Vice­President for Student Affairs.. 
Father Blantz commented, "I obviously think such a study or survey is a very good idea. There are going to be many changes in student life within the next months and years, and many 
BurgIars strike 
Campus Press, 

nothing taken 
by Ann McCarry 

Person or persons unknown broke into the Campus Press Office in the basement of LaFortune early Tuesday morning, according to Security Director Arthur Pears. Nothing was reported missing. 
The padlock on a large metal cabinet was broken and the door of an adjacent room was forced, Pears said. 
According to Pears, the burglars or burglars broke out a panel in the door of the janitor's room which adjoins the office and gained entry into Campus Press through a connecting door. A hammer, which the culprits apparently took from the janitors' room, was used to break the lock on the metal cabinet. 
Student Center Manager Brother Gorsch reported that earlier in the week vandals broke into the janitors' room. Ac­cording to Gorsch, only "minor damage" resulted. Campus security has no suspects in either case. 
decisions will h:we to be made which will have a deep and im­portant effect on student life, and I would like to have as much student opinion and student input available before these decisions are made." 
He added, "Thus I hope this survey or study will be able to suggest student views and student ideas about where this money might best be spent." 
According to Dr. Acker­man "the results will probably be determined by a random survey (approximately 20 percent) of each class. It will ask questions concerning what the students think in terms of the social, community, and academic aspects of Notre Dame. I am pleased with the progress that John Barkett and I have been able to make. We hope to have it finished by spring break. It would be a good thing if we could con­duct ongoing research into the changing attitudes of students." 






THE CUT THROAT 

2 -LITTLE LOVING 
Proof Of Age Always Required 

Thompson: No deferements for for frosh. 

other change from the past law is the eliminatipn of the 1-Y deferment for minor disabilities. Those formerly classified in this 
Citroen 
Truly the ultimate in 
·driving. If you haven't 
:driven dne yourself, just 
_ask SOf!'ebody who has. 


You'll see there's more 
to Citroen than just a 
pretty face. 
Used Specials of the Week 
'68 FIAT ABARTH 1300cc --The Real Thing 
'71 124 SPORT COUPE 4 Speed, Real Savings 
'68 VOLVO 1425 2 dr. Automatic, Real Nice 
'68 PONTIAC G.P. White, 2 Door Hard Top 
'69 CITROEN Like New An Excellent Buy 
.UIIBB. 

auto/sport
r.itr!)t!n 
52148 U.S. 31 N. 
· South Be,,c:i 
Phone 272-2Z54 

category will now be placed in either the 4-F or 1-A groups. Thsoe students who will par­ticipate in one of the overseas programs in their eligibility year will probably be able to finish this year even if they should draw low numbers. 
10% OFF 
On any mechanical 
work and winterizing. 
For students and 
University Personnel 

Roseland Gulf 402 U.S. 31 North Arross from Burger King 
Friday, Feb 4 Mardi Gras Begins With The Kick -Off Party 

Ticket Sales Only In Dining Halls Not Available At The Door (Featuring The Red Garter Band) $5.00 per couple Indiana National Guard Armory 




Mardi Gras 
t:t1e ntsne&' 
LOOr<ln 
Of 

f:OrJ'tOS&' 

Mardi Gras '72 
We're asking you to sell one raffle book ­
that's not much to ask. 



I NEED TYPISTS 
PAYS REAL MONEY $$$$ 
Work Weeknights 
Call Dan Thornton 
7605 


To Apply 

Wednesday, February 2, 1972 ______________:~:.._~1/.:.=.::'E::_::Q:..:I]J,=.=~:='E.::'R..:..=.V,='E.='R~~-------------------=-P.::.ageJC:..;7:_ 
UMD tops ND; rematch tonight 
by Jim Donaldson Sports Editor 

Opportunity knocked for the Notre Dame hockey team last night at the ACC but the Irish weren't able to answer. 
Notre Dame failed to take 

advantage of numerous scoring 
chances in their game with 
Minnesota-Duluth and dropped a 
5-2 decision, worth four title 
points, to the Bulldogs. More 
importantly, the Irish missed the 
opportunity to move past the 
Bulldogs into fourth place in the 
WCHA. 
The loss left Notre Dame with a 

7-10 record in league play and 22 
title points. Minnesota-Duluth is 
11-8 and has 30 title points. 
It was a frustrating n~ht for the Irish, who just couldn't seem to put the puck in the net. Bulldog goalie Jerome Mrazek, who stopped 54 shots, did the most to frustrate Notre Dame, but the Irish also had a half dozen shots hit the posts and, on a number of occasions, the Irish were unable to "get the handle" on the puck in scoring position. 
"I thought that we played well enough that we should have put more on the board than that," coach Lefty Smith, commented, with a shake of his head. 
"But key mental breakdowns hurt us," he said. "We make a slipup and it's on the board. When the other club makes some error, we're not picking it off." 
"We had our good scorers in the right spots a number of times but just couldn't score," he ad­ded. 
Both clubs had trouble scoring in the first period, although chances were plentiful. The Irish got an inkling of the way things 

Cagers 

by Eric Kinkopf The Notre Dame basketball team, down by only six points couldn't keep pace with the flashy Michigan State Sophomore Mike Robinson and his run and gun mates after the second tip­off. and dropped another one last night to Michigan 98-74. A cold hand at the foul line by State in the first half (2 of 12) kept Digger's kids in the game for the first twenty minutes, but after intermission, it was all for Michigan State. MSU scored first in the contest on a foulshot by Robinson, but the Irish copped the lead on a break-away lay-up by Willie Townsend. It was to be the only 1ead the Irish would see all night. MSU outscored the Irish 11-3 in the next four minutes, mostly on inside work by center Billy Kilgare and some hot outside shooting by Pat Miller. State took a nine point lead at the thirteen minute mark on a ten footer by Robinson, and kept the lead around that marKin for most of the first half, until the Irish rallied to close it to six before the buzzer. With a little less than a minute left in the half, Dan Silinski hit a short jumper after an assist from Willie T. on a fast break to cut the lead to six, 44-38. MSU came back down on the floor, but Gary Novak stole the ball from Robinson, led a three­on-one break down the floor, and fed Tom Hansen for another fast break bunny to make it 44-40. The Irish had another chance to cut it to two before the half. but a missed shot, and a short jumper by MSU center Kilgare with six seconds left, boasted Skate's lead back to six points, 46-40. The second half proved to be a disaster for the Irish round­bailers as the Spartans fast-
excellent chances to score but the UMD padded their lead at 6:03 
Bulldogs were foiled by Irish when Pokey Traschel 's 40-foot 
netminder, Chris Cathcart. slap shot broke through Cath­
Chuck Ness and Merv Kiryluik cart's glove and into the net. 
both broke in alone on Cathcart in The Irish bounced backthe period but couldn't beat him. 
quickly, however, closing the gap Cathcart stopped a low shot by to 3-2 with a power play goal at

Ness while Kiryluik's high blast Ian was in
8: 11. Williams thelate in the period hit the crossbar. 

right spot at the right time,The Bulldogs put a lot of pressure knocking in a rebound of a Bill on Cathcart in the final 52 Nyrop shot.

seconds of the period while Notre Notre Dame missed a goodDame's Campbell and Regan chance to tie the score later in the were in the penalty box, but were period when Bumbacco broke instill unable to score and the Irish alone on Mrazek but couldn't put hung on to their 1-0 lead. 
the puck past him.

Notre Dame's luck was no The Irish were two men shortbetter in the second stanza as for the first 53 seconds of the third both Campbell and Schafer hit period and a man down until 1:26the post with short shots in the had elapsed, but managed to
opening minutes. 
escape unscathed.

The Bulldogs, who had been Notre Dame went on the power outshot, 26-13, in the opening play a few minutes later but they period, didn't let their next still weren't getting the breaks as •scoring opportunity slip past. 
Bumbacco hit the post with a shotWith Campbell off the ice and Mrazek made fine saves onbecause of a holding penalty, Campbell and Noble.

UMD picked up a power play goal Instead, the Bulldogs took at 3:39. Greg Hubick set up the advantage of the Irish power play play, circling behind the cage and and picked up a shorthanded goal feeding Ness breaking in from at 4: 16. After the puck slippedthe left. Ness took the pass and past Bill Green at the left point,
L 
whipped a 10-footer into the lower 
.., 
Hubick and Alan Young broke in right corner of the net. on Cathcart and Green. Young
Eighteen seconds later, the slipped a perfect pass to Hubick,Hie Schaft>r gave Notre Dame a 1-0 lead with his first period goal last lead which
Bulldogs grabbed a coming down the left side, andnight but tht' Irish were eventually beaten by Minnesota-Duluth, 5-2, at they never relinquished. Dave the soph defensemen pumped the 
tht> ACC. 
were to go for them in the second Regan, who shot quickly. Mrazek Roy took a pass from the rear puck home. 
boards just in front of the net and 
minute of play when Ian got his stick on Regan's shot but Mrazek, who finished the game 
jammed it past Cathcart.
Williams, teaming up on a 2-on-1 the puck caromed out in front to with 54 saves, kept the Irish at 
break with Ed Bumbacco, hit the Ric Schafer, who flipped it into bay the rest of the way and UMD 
post with a shot. the net with 3:27 gone in the added their final goal after Smith
WCHA

period. had pulled Cathcart in favor of a Notre Dame was able to cash in The Irish almost scored again sixth attacker in the last minute. on a scoring opportunity a little in the seventh minute, but Pat Boulette did the honors for
Standings
later, though. John Noble started Mrazek made a fine stop of a shot the Bulldogs, connecting from 
the play by winning a faceoff at by Campbell, breaking in with W L T Pb. GF GA just outside the Irish blue line. 
the circle to the right of Mrazek Bumbacco. WiS<'onsin 15 3 0389250 The two clubs will meet again
Denver 12 6 03'!8264
and sliding the puck to Paul UMD also had a couple of North Dakota 11 7 0308567 tonight at the ACC. Faceoff time 
Minn.·Duluth. 10 8 0 26 R5 74 is 7:45. 
Notre Dame . 7 9 0 22 74 75 
Michigan State. . 8 9 0206859beaten at MSU Michigan Tech 7 8 0 :!0 68 67 Sailing club 
Coloardo College 7 10 0 :!0 76 84 
Mich1gan . . . . 6 II 0 12 56 103 elects officers 
M mnesota 3 15 0 64689
breaked to 20 points in the first six Tom 0' Mara, sitting out much night gavel was
Pis Pts Pis Friday the

and a half minutes while holding of the game from the Irish after passed from the old executive •
Won Lost Pet. Left 

the Irish only to three. getting into early foul trouble Team (Record) board to the new as the Notre
Wisconsin (15·3). 38 10 .792 24
Mike Robinson led that canned only one fielder for two Denver ( 12-6) 32 12 .121 32 Dame Sailing Club held its an­Spartan blitzkrieg as he hit for points. Mmn ·Duluth (10.8) .. 26 18 .591 2R nual election banquet.
North Dakota (11·7) . 30 22 .577 20
nine points in those first six and a With a twenty point lead and a The old flag line consisted of
Notre Dame (7·9) 22 22 .500 28half minutes of the second stanza. little under six minutes to go, Michigan State (R-9) :!0 2'! .476 30 commodore Jerry Mehm, vice­
MSU coach Gus Ganakas emp­M1ch1gan Tech ( 455) 20 24 455 28 commodore Regina Ivory, rear
While Robinson was dropping Colorado College (7·10)20 24 .455 28
tied his bench. Digger followed commodore Tom Willison, racing 
in short jumpers off the lead end Mich1gan (fi.ll) 12 30 ~86 30
suit five minutes later. Minnesota (3·15) 42 24 Kevin
of the Spartan fast break, all the 6 125 team captain Hoyt,
The game had a gridiron flavor W erkend Resulls secretary Jeege Mortimer, andIrish could muster was a ten 
Wisconsin 5·5. Notre Dame 3·:1

to it toward the end, when Notre treasurer Steve Costellano.
footer by Silinski after three Dem·er 3·2. Mmnesota 2·1
Dame had both Townsends on the North Dakota 9-10, Michigan 1·1 The outgoing officers will beminutes and thirty five seconds court, and MSU had Brad Van Michigan Tech 2-9. Lake Superior succeeded by Tim Flood,
had elapsed and a foul shot by State 2·2
Pelt Duffy's strong safety, and Christopher Nedeou, Will
Novak. Tuesday's Gam~
Billy Joe Dapre, the Spartan tight Minn.·Duluth at Notre Dame (7.45 Denelan, George Gaw, Bruce
The Spartans stretched the p.m, ACC)
end, on the floor at the same Marek, and Dick Keenan.
lead to 25 on a tip-in by Kilgare Games Wf'dnesday
time. 
Mmn.·Duluth at Notre Dame (7·45 Tim Flood, ND's new com­

with 8 :59 on the clock, and for all The loss to State, in a rivalry p m.. ACC) modore, was named post com­
practical purposes the Irish could Colorado College at Michigan Tech 
that dates all the way back to 1908 modore of the M.C.S.A., while
have packed their bags then, and Weekend Series 
dropped the Irish record to 3; 12 . Wisconsm at Minnesota Kevin Hoyt was elected vice­headed back to South Bend. 
Ther Spartans now stand at a North Dakota at Denver commodore of the M.C.S.A. Will 
The Irish playing under the respectable 9-6. Mich1gan State at Michigan Tech and Mortimer
Donelan Jeege
Colorado College at Mich1gan

supervision of three referees( a For the Irish, the Moun­
each reaped individual honors, as Big Ten innovation for the first taineers of West Virginia are 1\:otl': Standings do not include Donelan was named the best 
time> were in foul trouble from next. Game time is 8 o'clock in 
last night's gamt' bt>tween UMD skipper and Mortimer wasthe start. the Convo Thursday night. and Notl·l' Damt'. tabbed as best crew. Tom O'Mara picked up his third foul with only three minutes gone in the first half, and Chris 
Six Irish chosen in NFL draft Stevens picked up his third with 
15; 19 showing on the clock. Both 1 players sat out the rest of the half, and ,much of the second half. 
Had Michigan State capitalized on the foul situation, the game might have been decided in the first half. With Stevens' foul at 15:19, the Spartans were already in the one­on-one situation, without one fourth of the half gone. 
Mike Robinson of the Spartans led all scorers with 31 points, 11 above his average. Kilgare added 23, nine above his average, and Allan Smith , coming into the game withan 8 point average, hit for eighteen. 
Three Irish football players, Walt Patulski, at left, Clarence Ellis, center, and Mike Kadish, For the Irish, Gary Novak led right, were selected in the first round of the National Football League player draftt.he way with 2:J, followed by yesterday. Patulski, picked by the Buffalo Bills, was the first player chosen in the draft, Willie Townsend's 13, and brother Ellis was tabbed by the Atlanta Falcons, Kadish by the Miami Dolphins. Three other Irish Mike's eight. 
playt>rs, Fred Swendson, Eric Patton and Tom Gatewood, were also chosen, in later rounds. 




.. 
Wednesday, February 2, 197:1!

Page 8 THE OBSERVER 
All PRE -lAW STUDENTS (including underclassmen) 
U. of Michigan law School Information Session 
Friday Feb. 4 1972 Placement Bureau Sign ups -101 O'Shag 
Hey! Do You Know That You Don't Have To Be 21 To Play Pool At 





FRANKIE'S? 
Everyday Specials -Ocean Perch $1.25 -1 0 oz. Rib-Eye Steak -1h Broasted Chicken  $1.50 $1.50  
Includes Tureen Soup, Salad,  

Bread, Butter And Coffee 
CLASSIFIED ADS  
WANTED ------------------­POETRY WANTED for An­thology. Include stamped en­velope. Idlewild Press, 1807 E. Olympic Boulevard, Los Angeles, California, 90021. ------------­STUDENTS WANTED for small technical school. Curriculum ECPD accredited. Major in 9 fields of drafting, 2 fields of Civil and Electronics. A.S. Degree. Industry recruits on our campus.  OVERSEAS JOBS FOR STUDENTS Australia, Europe, s. America, Africa, Etc. All professions and occupations, $700 to $3,000 monthly. Expenses paid, overtime, sightseeing. Free information Write, Jobs Overseas, Dept. F2, Box 15071. San Diego, CA 92115. -----­------------­Need typing done??? Will do typing for reasonable rates and on short notice .. don't waste time pecking away -Call Chip at 8256.  
Transfers accepted February 14th through 21st. Institute of Drafting and Technology, Morrisson, Illinois, 61270. ---------------­Three delicious chicks need ride from and back to Cincinnati area during Mardi Gras Feb. 11-13. Desperate. Any information call Steve 1027. Will pay all expenses.  -----------------­NOT AVAILABLE NEW? TRY US FOR A RECYCLED BOOK. PANDORA'S BOOKS. NOON TO MIDNIGHT. 233 2342. -------------­ROME, ITALY, Summer Program. Stimulating curriculum. Outstanding faculty.  
----------------­SMC girl needs ride to Cincinnati weekend of Feb. 4. Call 4081. Need rides from Clarion PA., Mardi Gras or any weekend. Ph. 232-1035. -----------------­Need ride to Detroit Friday for 2 people. Call 6987. PERSONALS Win a ticket to the city of your choice. (Toronto) Win the Draft Lottery Lottery. In 25 words or less tell us why you hate rice and violence. Mail entries: Box 1-A. Bonanza, Nevada. -------------­FOR SALE --· ------------­Parts and Accessories for Im­ported cars. Foreign Car Parts Co. 215 Dixieway North (Roseland) 272-7187. -­--------------­'65 Pontiac Catalina, 383-V8, Automatic, power steering, radio, inspected. $350. Call 283­1933 or 233-8855. -­------------­Old English Sheep Dog, Male puppy, 10 weeks, $250 to right family. 2889943. ---­------------­For Sale: 1968 MGB-GT dark (Jreen, wire wheels radial tires, phone 219-362-8087. -------------­NOTICES DISCOUNT TRAVEL. To and Within Europe. Leave anytime from NY Chicago. Flight Center 227 North Randall, Madison, WI 53706 (608) 263-3131.  Etruscan Archeology Program. Transferable credits June 12-July 19. $760. Write: Trinity College­Rome Campus Trinity College Hartford, Connecticut 06106. ------------­LOST AND FOUND ·­------------­Lost Pair gold frame glasses on Notre Dame Ave. Call 233-5673. Reward. Lost Dark-frame eyeglasses between stadium and Stanford. 7966. ----------­Book bag taken from bookstore Monday, January 31st around 3 p.m. Contents include xeroxed articles for doctoral thesis. Call 3097, 8865, 8794. Thanks. ----------­Found: 2 calculus books, Calculus and Analytical Geometry by Biddle. Please claim at Pandora's Books. ---------­AD RATES W... Ida. 2da:--:iila. 4da. Sda. 1 1-11 .It .75 1.11 1.11 I.Zl 11-11 •• ••• I,JS -..,. 1.11 11-11 .7t us 1.1t z.• z• 21-11 .IS l.M 2.11 Z.tt U5 ._. 1.11 1.11 2.313... Uf Jl-35 l.ZI 1.11~ Z.M J.IS 4.71 31--11 1.35 Z.ll 1.11 4.25 l.lt 41-451.55 Z.31 3,31 Ut Ul 41-511.75 z.se :t.SI us 1.11  



.. 
-
ND Trustee arrested in New York 
Baynard Rustin, the university of Notre Dame's only black trustee was arrested last Sunday night in New York and charged with "possession of a dangerous weapon." 
Rustin was walking in the Times Square on 42nd Street when a PONYTactical Police Force Patrolman recognized Mr. Rustin's cane as a sword cane. Police Department sources said ''the weapon was a cane with a rather long sword contained inside of it". Mr. Rustin was arrained in the Criminal Court of New York County and Released on his own recognization to appear at a latter date. 
The possession violates the New York State Sullivan Law on possession of 

/ 

weapons. The charge itself is a class C Felony and if convicted, Rustin could be sentenced from 5 to 7 years in a State 
Penitentiary. 

Alumni to explain U of M Law School on campus Friday 
by Bill Sohn 

A group of N.D. alumni now attending the University of Michigan Law School will visit the campus to meet and talk with students about the U. If M. Law School. 
The group plans to be here from ten o'clock in the morning, on Friday, February 4. Ap­pointments to see them can be made through the placement bureay. 
Among the visitors will be Jeff Keyes and Paul Nowack, who spent the summer of '70 working with Ralph Nader. Nowack spend last summer with the Environmental Protection Agency. Others in the group have had experience with Law firms across the nation. 
SPECIAL OFFERING 
Famous Medici 
N D Trustee Baynard Rustin 



FREE MOVIES 
Thursday during lunch hour 
Room 1-C LaFortune {Student Senate Room) 

11 : 1 5 1:00 p.m. 
Please do not bring food into the room. 

DOUBLE -KNIT SPORT SHIRT 




$11.90 
Reg. $18.50 
Turtle neck or placket collar with zipper front; completely machine washable and dryable to hold its shape. Choose from several colors in a wide range of sizes. 
Knit is 83 percent Arnel tricac­tate, 17 percent nylon. 

PAY NEXT SUMMER 
You pay one-third next June, one­third in July and one-third in August ... 
No Carrying Charge 
ON THE CAMPUS ... NOTRE .DAME 



