
On The Inside 
Jesus and youth: parts 3 & 4 .•. pages 5,7 Summer & Smoke: mix­ed reactions ... page 8 
Vol. VII No. 50 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Co-ex charges dropped 
The University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College have adopted a policy for the spring term which eliminates individual and institutional charges from the academic co­l'xchange program between the two institutions. 
In a joint statement, the University and the College announced yesterday that ceiling quota of 3,000 hours will be assigned by each institution according to guidelines determined by its own staff in order to prevent overburdening specific d!'partments. Advance registration results will be evaluated and balanced by an in­terinstitutional committee. The 3,000-hour figure is a maximum; the actual ceiling may have to be lowered in order to achieve rl'gistration balance. 
"Not every student will be able to take all the courses he or she wishes at the other institution since only if some form of control is exercised is it possibie for co-exchange to work effectively," the joint statement noted. 
Thl' statement noted that the Department of Speech and Drama, which is a joint department, will not be considered in the co-exchange tabulation of hours and that students may still Plect to register for courses a the other in­stitution and pay tuition and fees appropriate to regular part-time students. 
In <'liinating co-exchange charges between the two schools, the policy actually reverts bact to that which obtained from the inception of the program in 1965 to the spring term of 1972, when an imbalance of registration led to a payment by Saint Mary's to Notre Dame. This fall semester, Saint Mary's co-exchange students made in­dividual tuition payments to Notre Dame, while Notre Dame co-exchange students did not incur any payments above their Notre Dame tuition. 
The joint statement was signed by Rev. James 
T. Burtchaell, C.S.C., Notre Dame's provost, and I<~rlward L. Henry, president of Saint Mary's. NPither could be reached last night for im­mPdiate comment. 
IIIJJIDIIIIDIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIi111111111111111111111111111111111111111 

Text of Burtchaell-Henry letter 
Educational enrichment is the most valuable objective of a viable co-exchange program. Therefore, conversations bet­ween the University and the College have been underway since August in hope of finding a better procedure that would make co-ex opportunities more freely available to students on both campuses. It has been agreed that at least for the second semester of 1972-3 a more generous exchange program will prevail. 
Students at either school will oe able to enroll in co-exchange courses next semester without incurring individual tuition charges. Special fees, if any, will be paid by the individual students themselves. Charges between schools will not be made for the second semester of this school year. 
Each school will have a ceiling quota of 3,000 hours to be assigned by each institution according to guielines determined by its own staff. Each school will seek to avoid overburdening specific departments in the other institution. There will be no requirement that this 3,000 quota be entirely used up, nor will there be an accounting for hours not so used. Following advance registration the results of this policy shall be re-evaluated and balance by represen­tatives from each instiution on a joint committee. Other forms of cooperation will be progressively explored. 

Thus, it is apparent that not every student will be able to take all the courses he or she wished at the other institution since only if some form of control is exercised is it possible for co-exchange to work ef­fectively. 
The Department of Speech and Drama will continue as a joint department and its hours will be exclusive of or in addition to the 3,000 hour quota. 
The right of students to register for courses in the other instutution and pay the appropriate fees and tuition will continue to be in effect if they wish to exercise this privilege. 
Reverend James T. Burtchaell, C.S.C. 
Provost 
University of Notre Dame 6631 7662 
Dr. Edward L. Henry 
President Saint Mary's College, Notre Dame 4328 272-3214 
llllniUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIDIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIH11111111111111111111111111110IIIIIll 
Thursday, November 16, 1972 
Committee fails to set female quotas 
The Notre Dame Quota Committee failed to set a quota for female admissions in their meeting vesterday. They will "hopefully" arrive at that decision when they meet again today, according to Sr. John Miriam Jones, Assistant to the Provost and member of that committee. 
Sr. John Miriam said that "there is a tremendous number of things that must be taken into consideration" before any decision on the quota can be reached. The problems include the question of converting halls for women, the number of women in each coUege, the moving of students off-campus and an examination of the stay hall system. Sr. John Miriam said that yesterday's discussion was "two hours well spent" because of the great amount of in­formation that was presented. 
The number of students to be accepted will have a great deal to do with determining which hall will be chosen as the new women's dor­mitory. A large number of women will mean a larger hall. This committee will not decide which hall will be picked. 
The University is also trying to keep the number of women in each college approximately equivalent and this will also require the setting of a quota. 
Before any quota can be derived, the com­mittee will have to determine how many students can be expected to move off-campus. The effect that the quota will have on the stay­hall system must also be examined in relation to its effects on a large number of students. 
"Arriving at this quota then, " Sr. John Miriam said, "is no simple matter." When asked if she felt confident that the quota would be arrived at today, she anwered; "I surely hope so." 
The committee is comprised of the four deans of the colleges, John Godrick, Director of Ad­missions, Fr. James Riehle, Dean of Students and Director of Housing, Sr. John Miriam and is chaired by Fr. Ferdinand Brown, Associate Provost. 
Sr. John Miriam declined to make an official prediction of the quota but expressed her own personal hope that the committee would basically follow the guidelines set down by the University President, Fr. Hesburgh. According to this plan, the number of female students <'nrol'led for the year after next will be one thousand. She hopes that next year's quota will be somewhere around two-thirds of that number. 

NDwill accept bowl bid; Orange assumedchoice 
by Jim Donaldson 
Sports Editor 
Notre Dame's football team voted last night to accept a bid to a bowl gaml', if one is extended to them. and indicated a preference to play in the Orange Bowl in Miami, Fla. 
Sources at the meeting say that the vote to accept a bowl spot was· aTmost unanimous and that a rlear majority of the squad wanted to play in the Orange Bowl. 
Unofficially. it is believed that, if Notre Dame defeats the Miami (Fla.) Hurricanes this Saturday, the Orange Bowl will extend a bid to the Irish to meet Nebraska in the annual New Year's night classic. 
It has been rumored that Alabama, a prime contender for the national championship, would like to meet Texas in the Cotton Bowl. 
Oklahoma, L.S.U., Penn State 
and Auburn are seeking Sugar 
Bowl berths, with Oklahoma and 
Penn State reportedly the leading 
contenders. 

Earlier this week, Head Coach 1Ara Parseghian had stated, when asked about whether or not Notre Daml' would accept a bowl bid this 
j
vear, "I feel that the ball club and ihe University would be receptive to a bowl invitation." 
Some of the upsets that· took place last week place us in pretty 
l
good position for a bowl bid," he continuecl. "Of course, everything is contingent on beating Miami this weekend." 
Notre Dame has appeared in three bowl games in its football history. beating Stanford, 27-10, in the 1925 Rose Bowl, losing to TPxas. 21-17, in the 1970 Cotton Bowl. and defeating the Longhorns in a 1971 Cotton Bowl rematch, 24-10. 
Last year, the Irish squad \'Oted not to accept any bowl bids they might receive. Notre Dame finished the 1971 season with an a. 2 record. 
-R:lllllll-lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll Tomorrow's issue of the Observer will be the last before the Thanks­giving vacation. -lllllll-01111111111111111111111111111111111111 

the observer Thursday, November 16, 1972 
warld briefs 
(c) 1!172 New York Times 

Washington-In the first move toward some kind of normal relations between the United States and Cuba in 13 years, both countries ex­pressed a desire Wednesday to negotiate an anti-hijacking agreement. The Cuban Government broadcast a formal declaration urging a "broad agreement" on the issue Wednesday morning. Shortly afterwards, unaware of the broadcast over Havana radio, the State Department said "there may now be a basis for reopening discussions." 
Washin"'·"'-1Four coun~ies have agr~ed "in principle''. to s~rve on an internattOna commissiOn to supervise a cease-fire m VIetnam, according to the Statement Department. But the four, Canada, Hungary. Indonesia and Poland, are reportedly less than enthusiastic about taking part in a difficult task. 
Washington --The Government's first statistical evaluation of its wage-price controls concludes that its policy has cut the rate of in­flation by from 1.5 to 2 percentage points. According to C. Jackson Grayson'. Chairman of the Price Commission, prices would have risenat a rate of between 4.7 and 5.2 per cent without controls. With them. the rate of increase has been 3.2 per cent since the controls program started in August 1971. 
an campus taday 
12:00 pm meeting, gsu, 127 niewla~ 
8:00pm lecture, former astromaut edgar mitchell, consciousness, the ultimate
...
entgma, cce 
8:00 pm lecture, richard h. Iuecke, ministry amid social symbols, galvin life center. 

at nd-smc 


SBVP election to be held on Friday 
WPite. the SBVP, inherited the whereas the Secretary and ,·acated position. The constitutions Treasury offices are appointed byby Jt-rry Bradley requires that the vice-president the president and the vice­Staff Itt-porter must be elected by the students president. 
Christmas Buses 

December 19 & 20 Leave Circle at 1:30 onlyReturn January 15 leaving O'Hare at 8:00pm CST 
Sign-ups now at the Travel Bureau--Badin Hall All Sales Final 
Barb Mt•Kiernan, chairman of th<' Saint Mary's Election Com­mill<'<', announced yesterday that th<' Student Body Vice-Presidential t•IPt'tion has been set for Friday, Nov. 17, from 10:00 --4:00. l\1cKiPrnan stated that ballot boxes will bP placed in each hall and that all off-campus and day students an• to vote in LPMans Hall. 
SuP Oglesbee. formerly the St udPnt Body SPcretary, is running tmeontPstPd for the office. To win shP must gain over 50 percent of th<• votes against an abstention \Ot<• and a write-in vote. 
<lgl<•sbee pointed out that with h<'r past <•xperience in the Student (;ov<•rnm<•nt she "knows exactly what's going on." She added that "as far as I'm concerned I would just eontinue the programs that Su<' and Jean started and worked so closely on." Oglesbee pointed out that it is necessary to fill the s<•at b(•cause the Vice-President has one vote on both the Student Affairs Committee and the Student Mfa irs Council. 
Th<' SBVP seat was left open wh<•n JPan Seymour, formerly the SBI'. r<'signed Nov. 5 and Sue 


TURN INYOUR YOUTH CARD FORTWNs. YOU'LL GETATOP LPALBUM AND A WHOLE LOT OF THE WORLD FOR FREE. 
It may sound funny to tum in your card for a free TWA counter (or pay $3 for a new one, if you don't 
TWA card, but it's worth it. Ifyou tum in your have one to tum in), you'll get more than any other American or United or whatever other airline's youth airline offers you. Maximum discounts on TWA and card you have to your campus representative or any all other airlines, more free things and, on top of all 
that, a free album. 
FREE ALBUM-FIRST 10,000. 

First, you'II get a Record Club of America coupon Plus a free lifetime membership in Record good for your choice of a free top album worth up to Club of America, with no obligation to buy any $6.98. From a list of over 100 incredibles. Like Three record. The offer's limited to the first 10,000, so Dog Night, Neil Diamond, Roberta Flack, Elton John. you've got to do it soon. 
FREE MONEY-SAVING COUPONS. 
When you land in any of six cities (London, jiust the "in" places, but the spots that only the 
Boston, Paris, Los Angeles, San Francisco or Denver) knowing would know about. And those are the ones with your TWA card, you'll get a brochure we give you free dinners, drinks, club memberships or full of hundreds of dollars' worth of deals. And we discounts in. Here are just some of the absolutely 
mean deals. Like absolutely free or 50% off. free things you'II get in London and Boston, as an What we did was to talk to students in those example of what TWA has arranged for you in all 
cities and ask where they'd take their friends-not the cities. 
BOSTON FREEBEES. LONDON FREEBEES. FREE FREE 
A spaghetti dinner at the ''Spaghetti Emporium, Inc.:' Admission to any of ten Greyhound Racing Tracks. just off Harvard Square. A great English sport. 
FREE FREE 
Breakfast in the "Pewter Pot Muffin House" Membership and drink at "La Valbonne," one of the (14locations) where many Harvard students stop toughest clubs to get a membership in, even for 
first in the morning. 
Londoners. 

FREE FREE 
Admission to the "Prudential Center Skywalk," the A full breakfast at your choice of 10 Quality Inns, first place to go to get your bearings in Boston. famous for their hearty fare. 
FREE FREE 
Combination health food platter from "Comers of A pint of "Watney's Red Barrel" in "The Prospect of the Mouth" restaurant. A healthy buffet of hot and Whitby," or your choice of over 40 London pubs. cold dishes. 
FREE 
·""­
Quiche lorraine and cup of coffee at "La Crepe." 
FREE 

Indian soup and vegetable curry at the "India Sweet House" restaurant in Cambridge. 
FREE 

Pair of earrings or pendant (and watch it being made) at "Whaler's Wharf." 
FREE 

Admission to "Passim Coffeehouse" during great evening performances. Or, during the day, a free beverage and dessert. 
FREE l 
Hour of bike riding from "Streeter & Quarles" on ~· Boylston Street. 

t~~ .. 

•Youth Passport is a service mark owned exclusively QY TWA. 

Thursday, November 16, 1972 the observer 
JohnsoJrl: consumer groups hurt each other 
by Bill Betz Staff Reporter 

·'Nobody can bill himself as an advocate of all consumers because every time he takes action to help one group of con­sumers, he necessarily is hurting another group," Robert Johnson, head of the National Commission of Consumer Finance, told an audience of about seventy-five people Wednesday in the Memorial Library Auditorium. 
Johnson, in a lecture entitled "Con­sumer Protection in Consumer Credit," said that when dealing with consumer protection, one must realize that he is not talking about the consumer vs. the in­dustry, but about consumer groups vs. other consumer groups. 
"We are all consumers, and when legislation is passed to protetCt the in­terests of one group of consumers, the scales are tilted and some other group suffers." He used the example of govern­mcntal safety regulations to illustrate his point.
Those consumers in favor of safety 
regulations benefited from the legislation 
passed in that area. However, Johnson 
continued, those consumers who were not 
concerned with safety still had to pay the 
added expense of those pr•ecautions 
demand, and therefore those eonsumers 
suffered from the "consumer protection" 
initiated by the other group. 
To make the point further Johnson used 
another example. If during football 
games, the concession stands charge three 
eents for mustard, and a consumer ad­vocate forces the price down to one cent, what happens? The concession stands will make up the difference by raising the price of the hot dogs, or decreasing their size. The result is that those people who use mustard end up paying the same price as they did before and those consumers who don't use mustard pay more for what they get, according to Johnson. One group is helped, one group suffers. The industry doesn't suffer from the consumer demands. They make up the cost of the demands by cutting down in some other area of their operation. 
In the area of consumer protection there are basically two schools of thought, Johnson said. One is the Milton Friedman School of Laissez-Faire protection, which advocates letting the consumer make his own product choices in the marketplace. The main idea behind this school is that the natural competition for consumer business force producers to turn out high quality goods and services. 
The second school is that of government intervention which calls for legislation rather than individuals to guard the in­terests of the consumers, said Johnson. Lcgislation such as the state laws that put a ceiling on interest rates that can be charged, the Truth in Lending Act, which states that the consumer must be told the annual percent rates and finance charges before given a loan, and the already mE>ntioned car safety regulations are cxamples of governmental protection of consumer rights. 
However, Johnson added that those in 
favor of government intervention must face two major problems. First, any consumer legislation implies a value judgment by the very nature of the con­sumer question. The question then becomes, whose value system should prevail? Which consumer groups should be ignored? A consumer advocate like Ralph Nader imposes a value system on society. 

From this first problem stems a second: if you don't accept that value system, he continued, "whose value system do you accept in determining the extent of legislation needed?" 
Johnson said that his commission handles the problem by first finding out and identifying those who benefit from and those who are harmed by legislation. Then they try to weigh the extent of each result and work for a program that will benefit the most people. 
Johnson used fixed interest ceilings on loans as an example of the complexity of consumer legislation. If the government sets the ceiling for interest rates on loans at 22 percent, some consumer groups will undoubtly be spared the possibility of higher interest rates, say 40 -50 percent. However, what happens to the poor risk borrower who can only get loans at a higher rate than 22 percent, due to the risk of the lender? Johnson claims he is cut out of the system and ends up on the corner borrowing from the local loan shark at a rate five times that, according to Johnson. Some consumers benefit and some are harmed. ~oh~son said that it was the job of h1s commiSSIOn to weigh the consequences of consumers' demands because "the 

Robert Johnson: "We are all consumers 
and _when legislation is passed to protect 
the mterests of one group of consumers 
the scales are tilted and some other group' 
suffers." 
economy is designed to benefit the majority of the society's consumers." 
Johnson, who was sponsored by the Cardinal O'Hara Lecture Series, in ad­dition to his government post, is a professor of Industrial Administration at Purdue University, the author of two text books, Financial Managementand Self Corrl'cting Problems in Finance, both used by the Notre Dame Business School and a Holder of business degrees fro~ Oberlin, Harvard, and Northwestern. 




ND-SMC blood drive starts November 30 
by David Rust Staff Rl'porter 

Calls for blood are going out to the Notre and Saint Mary's communities in "r"•n<>r,tinn for an intensive ND-SMC Red 
blood drive Nov. 30 and Dec. 1. 
Meade, Notre Dame junior and 
student who spearheads this local 
heads a group of recruiters who are 
to collect the signatures and promises 
over 800 students, faculty members and 
else who can give blood. Meade introduced the blood donor program to Notre Dame last year. Prior to 
t. he had been active in similar projects University of New Hampshire. ND­s first drive came under his 
dership in April of 1972 when his goal of 500 donors was donors was easily reached. 
800 donors needed 
This semester's 800-plus target is more ambitious, a~d Meade said, "We do really need donors. This is a great way to help people and everyone that can should consider giving." 
Those who wish to give blood need fulfill only minor requirements set by the Red Cross: the donor must be between 18 and li5 years of age; must be in relatively good health, should not weigh less than 110 pounds, and should have had a good meal sometime prior to the actual donation. Minors no longer need written parental consent. 
For this particular program, interested parties should call Meade at 3412, Jack McKeon at 8851, or Ann Smith (St. Mary's) at 5268. 
Each will be given a tuue slot under a grid system adapted to ND-S)\'IC's use by last year ND senior Ray DeCarlo, and will be called and reminded of his or her pledge the night prior to their donation. 
The actual blood transf~' .. 'Viii take place at Stepan Center on the ~D campus from 
10:00 a.m. to 4:00p.m. on Thursday, Nov. 
30, and from 9:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. the following day. Each donor will be called upon to give one pint of blood. 
Meade believes the grid-time slot system will alleviate alternate donor gluts and gaps at Stepan Center, allwing a fast, smooth and efficient flow of donors through the temporary donation center. 
special blood plan 
There is not immediate remuneration 

for givers, said Meade, but the Red Cross 
does have a special blood plan for those 
who do give.
"You )(the donor) and any member of your immediate family, no matter what part of the country they're in," said Mcade, "is guaranteed free blood should they need it." 
The offer is qualified by requiring 

payment of lab costs for the blood and is 
limited to a one year period beginning the 
day of the donation. But the offer is "a 
defninite advantage," said Meade. 
"Suppose you should get involved in an 
accident. or, God forbid, your father 
should require open heart surgery. The 
blood would be yours free." 
But there are other more philanthropic 

rE'asons to give. What happens to the blood 
after it is given? 
There are hundreds of uses, according to 

the Red Cross, which engineers the 
thousands of local blood donation 
programs across the U.S. New born 
babies sometimes need complete blood 
changes, and often their mothers require 
major transusions also. Anemia and burn 
victims need large quantities to recover. 
Shock victims demand blood transfusions 
immediately. 
There are other cases· in which even 

greater amounts of blood are needed by 
just one individual. During open heart 
surgery, for example, the patient needs 15­
30 pints of blood to keep alive. "And 
hemophiliacs," said Meade. "Well ... that's 
their life." 
Gay teacher fights transfer 
(c) New York Times 
-Washington, D. C. --A Rockville Md., dassroom teacher, who was transferred to a nonteaching 
position atter his homosexual affiliations became known to school authorities, filed suit in the 
U.S. District Court in Baltimore _joday. 
Jose~h Acanfora III, 22, an admitted homoo;;exual, is seeking reinstatement to his classroom position and attorney's fees. Defendants are the Montgomery County Board of Education, U1e Montgomery County Public Schools, Superintendent Homer L. Elseroad, Deputy Superintendent ronald Miedema, and all present school board members. 
The National Education Association and its state and local affiliates, the Maryland State Teachers Association and the Montgomery County Education Association, are supporting Acanfora's allegation that he was transferred for "constitutionally impermissible" reasons, violating his rights under the Fourteenth 
"Blood is not just a life-saver," said one Red Cross pamphlet. "Blood is life." 
0 the blood collected uring the ND-SMC drive, reported Meade, 50 pints of it will be sent to South Bend under the name of the Notre Dame Fund. Blood sotred in this name is available fo any Notre Dame of Saint Mary's community member's use for one year, over and above the free blood guaranteed donors and their families. 
The rest of the blood will go to major Red Cross offices in Ft. Wayne and Chicago. 
"Chicago has a great need for blood from what I hear," said Meade. The given blood becomes part of a whole body of blood available to any Red Cross station in the country. 
Whole blood--that is, the total blood substance as it is taken from the body-is of the most immediate and best facillatated use to medical work. But after 21-28 days whole blood is no longer considered safe for transfusion and is broken down into its clements for later use. Therefore, almost all blood taken in is used in some way or another. 
Recruiters at ND are finding that they are not immune from the same type of excuses and questions each recruiter has to face across the country. 
no need to worry 
Some say they are scared to give. The 
Red Cross answer is that there's nothing to 
worry about--some have given more than 
15 gallons over the years. 
Some say "There must be others giving 
E'nough blood." "There is never enough 
blood," Red Cross replies. 
"Do I have enough blood to spare? Will 
it make me too weak?" Only one pint of 
each individuals's twelve is taken-it is 
completely replaced within 48 hours, and 
rarely does anyone feel any effect af­
terwards, the Red Cross says. 
And some say they're too busy. The 
answer--"What are they too busy for? To 
save someone's life?" 
Amendment. 

"This case raises major con­stitutional issues concerning the right of all teachers to fair treatment by their employers regardless of private associations or unorthodox beliefs," James T. Butler, director of NEA's DuShane Emergency Fund, said: Butler noted that the fund, established to protect the civil and professional rights of educators, "has been eonsistent in supporting teachers whose classroom effectiveness is 
(continued on page 10) 
, 
There is a valid excuse for fear that past and current diseases would render one's blood unusable. Anyone who has a doubt should report this information to the personnel at Stepan Center and find out, after a simple blood check, if there really is cause to forgo the giving. 
Each donor will be given a card with his name, address, social . security number and blood type after donation. 


Ft. W_ayne runs drive 
The American Red Cross sponsors 
dirvers everywhere through its local of­
fices. South Bend does not hve the 
facilities for sponsoring a blood frive of 
this magnitude, however, and since Notre 
Dame is in Ft. Wayne's <Ind.) blood 
district, Ft. Wayne will run the operations, 
providing personnel and other aid, and will 
be assisted by the Chicago office. 
"This will be the first time two city 
organizations have worked together on one 
college campus," said Meade. "It's also 
going to be the biggest operation Ft. 
Wayne has ever sponsored." 
Meade and the Ft. Wayne Red Cross 
have plans for another drive next 
semester. Dates will be chosen after the 
success of this drive is analyzed. 
Meade began work on establishing a 
program here at Notre Dame upon his 
arrival at ND in the fall of 1971. 
"I was really amazed," said Meade. 
"There was no blood program here at all. 
Every college I had heard about 
<Georgetown, Auburn, to name a few) had 
a program of their onw." 
He contacted authorities in Ft. Wayne 
and Chicago, and began developing 
publicity through campus organiziations, 
most of which proved to be helpful, ac­
cording to Meade, making last sproing's 
drive, sponsored by Chicago (Ft. Wayne 
couldn't fit ND-SMC on their schedule at 
the time l a complete success. 


Observer 
News Staff Meeting 
Regular, short business meeting Tonight 7:00pm Lafortune 2-D 
the observer Thursday, November 16, 1972
4 
Astronaut Mitchell to speak 
Dr. Edgar D. Mitchell, pilot of the Apollo 14 Lunar Module and current executive of an organization to study "the psychic potential of man and other forms of life," will speak at the University of Notre Dame tonight. 
Appearmg · as the year's first Cahllenges in Science Lecturer, Mitchell will speak on "Con­sciousness-the Ultimate Enigma" at 8 p.m. in the Center for Con­tinuing Education. The Challenges in Science series is sponsored by the Arthur J. Schmitt Foundation. 
At 42, Mitchell is a retired Navy captain most famous for his role in the Apollo program, and his designation as the sixth person to walk on th moon. In October he formed a service organization caWed "Edgar D. Mitchell & Associates, Inc." to pursue and communicate scientific research relating to psychic phenomena. 
During his Apollo mission, Mitchell tried to communicate a signal mentally to four persons on eatth, using a deck of cards designed for such tests. A scien­tific paper prepared a few months after the flight called the results "statistically significant." 

A graduate of Carnegie-Millon University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Mitchell is a member of the Adventurers Club, the Parapsychological Association, the Society of Ex­perimental Test Pilots and a variety of other organizations. He has received several civilian and Navy medals for his service, and holds honorary degrees from Carnegie Mellon University and New Mexico State University. 
The public is invited to attend! his talk, sponsored by the College of Science and its Student Science Council. 
Popcorn packages available~ 
Hy Greg Rowinski 
Staff Reporter 

Popcorn care packages will be available to the popper-deprived girls of Holy Cross Hall soon. 
The corn will begin popping next week, giving the residents that much more to be thankful for on Thursday. 
"Plans have been formulated, and the groundwork has been set," said Jim Roe, Student Govern­ment's Public Relation!! Director. 
Inexpersive popcorn will be picked up in Michigan City, pop­ped, and then distributed to humgry students. The final link in the system which is reminiscent of the Berlin airlift, is to be com­pleted when Student Government finds a driver to pick up the corn. 
There has been ""quite a bit of response" to the program." said Roe. Originally, plans were made to inaugurate the service Friday to complement the showing of "Camelot". But timing difficulties forced a postponment to next week, said Roe. Among those on the care list is Dr. Edward Henry, President of SMC. 
efforts to proceed 
Individual efforts to satisfy the corn-craved will continue. One Holy Cross resident reported that she was presently feeding her section and would "continue popping." 

Corn-runners can return to student government headquarters after their errand of mercy to •·•pop some corn", said Roe. 
Contest planned 
A letter-of-resignation contest is planned. for just after Thanksgiving. Students can write such a letter for anh member of the Cabinet, SLC, and HPC. 
In the letter the student will enumerate any good reasons for resigning the post. The contest will be "a good dig at poohbahism", said Roe. 
A contest for choosing the "best Thanksgivil)g prayer" "neve1r got off the ground", said Roe. 



IANAC reports on youth fares 

by Dave Rust Staff Reporter 
Youth fares for all international flights under the authority of the International Association of North Atlantic Carriers will remain the same even after Dec. 1 by a sur­prise vote of that body, reported Clark Eide Tuesday. 

Age limit reviewed 
Eide, the British Overseas Air Company's representative on the Notre Dame campus, had told the Observer earlier that the IANAC, which is the organization tying together commercial international European and Middle Eastern airlines, was planning to drop their vouth fare age limit from 26 years of age to 23, and increase flight fares by $20 beginning Dec. 1 of this year. 
The IANAC was also to further reduce the number of customers eligible to fly under youth discounts by setting the limit at 21 on April 1, 1973, all fares and ages pertaining exclusively to youth stabilizing at that point. 
Apparently, what was thought t,o
1
be a virtual certainty beforeJtne IANAC member countrie&. iVoted was thrown out when -several 
countries cast "no" bfillots and 
rendered the requi¢ed unanimity 

"These rates will be in effect indefinitely," said Eide. All rates, regardless of youth discounts, will still be subject to across-the-board change. 

Plan intact 
The IANAC's decision to keep their youth fare plan intact has no effect on any airline operating 
domestically here in the United 
States. 
impossible. IJRilll••••··enll.l•llei!!MI•••Ma••~ .
"All off-peak fAres are back to • • 
whattheywerebefore,"saidEide.. In COnlunC1'10n With the N.D. Volunteer Services 
The cost of a 1"ound-trip ticket for a New York-London flight is still $190 
for those under 26 years of age. 
As before, the youth discounts are not as pronounced during "peak," short seasons consisting of ten days before and ten days after Christmas, and the month­long period from mid-June to mid­July. The round trip from New York to London and back again then costs the under-26 $210. 

Good $2.75 seats and some higher priced seats available through showtime at the ACC Ticket Office (9-5) daUy. 
' 
"LINDISFARNE is Britian's Best New Group 
r 
-Melody Maker 

r 
The latest Yes album, Close To The Edge 
is number 5 in this. week's Billboard 
~ 
~ 
The Arthur J. Schmitt Challenges in Science meetings of the College of Science 
THE COLLEGE OF SCIENCI! AND ITS STUDENT SCIENCE COUNCIL · present 


EDGAR D. MITCHELL 
Apollo 14 Lunar Module Pilot Sixth person to walk on the Moon speaking on 
CONSCIOUSNESS·· The Ultimate Enigma A Lecture On Scientific Research In Psychic Phenomena 
Thurs. November 16, 1972 8:OOpm· 
Center for Continuing Education 
Glee Club Concert 
Monday Nov. 20 
8 15 

: pm Wash•ln ton Hall 



FREE 

, Th k • • B k t D •
an sg1v1ng as e riVe 


the STUDENT UNION SOCIAL COMM. I 
presents i 
ANNE OF THE THOUSAND DAYS 


only 25~ 
ALL admission monies will be used to distribute food to thE~ underpriveleged on Thanksgiving 

MONDAY 6& 1 Opm ENG. AUD. 


·~~. ............. ' 
t 
L_______ 
----------------------~ 
Thursday, November 16, 1972 the observer 



Key 73: A blueprint for religious co-operation 

by Joseph Abell Managing Editor 
Third in a series 

1966--forty two important church lt>aders from a great: diversity of beliefs ml.'et in Arlington, Virginia. Within earshot of the f''rancis Scott Key Bridge, they bC"gin discussions for a nationwide coopl.'rative effort to spread the word of Jesus Christ. The World Congrl.'ss on Evangelism has r<'CC'ntly bel.'n held in Berlin, and these leaders want to set up a follow-up program in the United States. They set their target dates for 1973 and start to make plans for a year-long program of activities for that year. 
Thus began the program dubbed K<'y 73 for its proximity to the Key BridgP. Its purpose: to work among some 130 churches in­IPrdPnominationally to push a grPat (•vangelistic effort. 
[)(>scribed in the Texas 1\ll'lhndist by the Rev. Joseph Hale an executive committ.ee member of Key 73, it is a "positive, af­firmative movement for Christians to share the meaning of their faith in a more aggressive way than we havP done in the last 10 years." Its plans: to work, through six phases, through each dude hymn contests.t;tti the chur­
ches, prayer meetings, Bibly study groups, state "fair crusades, television specials and various shows sponsored by sympathetic actors and artists. Le3ders of the <'ffort hope that Christians will be able to introduce non-Christians to the Christian faith by inviting them to these activities. They also hope to strengthen the faith of many Christians. 
Even some Catholic dioceses have agreed to participate in the KPy 73 program, an unusual t•ooperat ive gesture for the Catholic church, who only reluc­tantly joins Protestant faiths for any activity. . 
RPv. Hale offers a reason for "fhis: "We agreed in the executive committee on two things~ first of
Key 73 leaders seem to think so. They feel that the reason for their a!l. wC' have a big Christ, and He's 
a lot bigger than we can encase inoptimism is based in the fact that any one of out denominations.
there will be no central organization directing everybody. SPcondly, there are such massive 
nPeds in our communities that weThe Key73 committee has set up must meet the challenge in-basic guidelines, but has for the 

most part, left the details and dividually on the basis of needs~~================::::::==:;::::========
pC'ople have." He adds 
that all r"
procedures to the individual 
churches have recognized the 
churches and even to the in­
to "pull together" in recent
dividual parishes. The committae 
The program will work
will serve little other purpose Ufan 
main phases:
to keep the efforts of the vatious 
ehurches coordinated. Aetivities for the eff~ft 
Ca llin~1 our Continent to Repentance and Prayer 
Noon Prayer Call (Christmas, 1972-Jan. 5, 
1973) 

Faith-In-Action television special (Jan. 6) 
Launch Sunday (Jan. 7) S1mu1tanlous 
covenant services. 

Calling Our Continent To The Word Of God 
Bible Distribution (Thanksgiving, 1972· 
Easier, 1973) 

-Use of media in sharing Biblical message (Jan. 7 . March 7) 
Calling Our Continent To The Resurrection 
Optional plans for a witness-survey 
(rt!ligious census) (Jan. 7 . March 7) 
Period of intensive Christian witness (March 
7·Easter,1973) 

Easter television special (Easter weekend) 
Calling Our Continent To New Life Video tape productions (to be created and aired locally) (Spring, 1973) Teams of Christian artists, musicians, actors appearing where people are (Summer) Sharing the Good News in leisure areas 
Calling Our Continent to Proclamation 
-Special Key 73 emphases crt state and county fairs (Aug., Sept., 1973) Area impact weeks (preaching, community contact and proclamation via available media (November\ 



Calli"' Our Continent to Commitment 
An initiative to reclaim Christmas (December) Television Ct.ntenant Special that focuses on the years events (December 19) 

RF' 'T A Pli'ITO \ 
u:J_A D~Y 
~· f-' tv-' 
--a basic return to prayer rt>pentance forwill -in­<'V<'rvwhere to look inside them­sdves to find ways to evangelize in lhe coming year, 
--a concentration on tPachings and wisdom of the for Christa ins, and a sharing of Bible to non-Christians, 
--an emphasis on 
n•surrection of Christ, 
around the Easter season, 
Christians a chance to 
their faith to non-Christians, 
--an C'mphasis on youth interest in the Christian faith, scheduled 
INFO, CALL: 
CRAIG KAPSON 
or LOIS TRANTER JORDON MOTORS 
For students and 1acully 21 and over. 


RENT·A·CAR 

with emphasis on local areas, 
--and finally, a calling for a commitment to Christ form non­Christians and Christians alike centered around the Christman~ season. 
Whether or not this massive Pffort will work is as yet unknown or even unguessed by the church leaders. However, it will be the largest and longest, most cooperative and most intense evagelistic effort the United States has ever seen. Even if the effort is disappointing, church leaders agree that its implications will become milestones in in­terdenominational cooperation and evangelistic emphasis. 
Part four in this series will be found on page seven of today's Observer. 
THE NOTRE DAME-SAINT MARY'S THEATRE 
announces TRYOUTS FOR John Bowen's 

AFTER THE RAIN Sunday, N0vember 19 at 1:00 p.m. Monday, N u·rember 20 at 7: 00 p.m.
1
Ca lbacks--Tuesday, November 21 at 7:00 p.m. O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM .••.SAINT MARY'S 
OPEN TO ALL ND-SMC STUDENTS 
SURPRISE MOM & DAD ••• 
get your hair shaped-up for Turkey Day 

"Let Sue style your hair." 

We solve long hair problems 

America's Most Misunderstood British Rock Group. 

Lindisfarne will be appearing at the 
Athletic & Convocation Center  at 8:30pm  
on November 18th  •  
Lindisfarne's new Elektra album  "Dingly Dell"  
is available at the Notre Dame  Book Store.  

l, 
l ,, 

,•, 
........ 
..~-~-­



Delerium Tremens




TlfE OBSERVER 
A Collection of
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
John Abowd Dan Thornton Editor-in-Chief Business Manager 
Unsung Drugs
NEWS: 283-1715 EDITORIALS: 283-8661 Don Ruane BUSINESS: 283-7471 
lefty rusc:hmann
Joe Butler Executive Editor Advertising Manager 
Those innumerable "Drug Scene" articles which concentrate on the
Thursday, November 16, 1972 
usual stuff--•··uppers and downers"-miss out completely on an important group of chemicals, collectively known as the "Domers." In order to correct this ommission, the Observer makes available this detailed description of the "Domers", in ascending order of dangerousness:



Co-ex Quota System 
Til. TMII. SLC. <'t al

The University of Notre Da)lle and will feel the brunt of the credit hour Saint Mary's College finafized an limitation. The 6600 undergraduate TO: a strong euphoria-producing drug, harvested every fall by agreement yesterday that signals the students at the dome will only be able to special teams working with University sanction. It is often found with return to normal relations ,between the the impurities FG and PAT. Last year, an experiment conducted on
sign up for 1¥2 credit hours a piece on the 

two schools. Saint Mary's students will campus proved that depression, loss of temper, and other ugly side
average. That's a significant decrease 

<•ffects follow a reduction of TD dosage.
once again be able to take Notre Dame from averages in the past yearsbut its the 
TMH: a rare compound whose properties are not fully known at thiscourses without additional charge. This price for increased female enrollment in tiJ?e. though it is believed to give users a strong wanderlust, coupled 
semester Saint Mary's students taking 

Notre Dame classes without overloading wtth an excess of nervous energy which leads to restlessness and late 
courses at Notre Dame were required to individual departments. hours. pay $100 per credit hour unless the course SLC: an hallucinogen, no longer found in its strongest form was offered in the theology or speech and ND Enrollment at SMC following an attack of Trustees' Blight in recent years. Users of SLC 
fall ~nto a trancelike st~te, making incoherent statements and dilatory 
drama departments. Its hard to predict whether the quota 
mottons. SLC also giVes users exaggerated notions of their own
The agreement creates a quota system will have its full impact ND
on wisdom and importance.
which requires the number of co-ex hours enrollment at Saint Mary's but the taken by students at the two institutions potential to patch the much maligned 
liTH and SBPto be approximately equal. The creation relations between the two schools should 
of a quota system was brought on by more than compensate for 
HTH: an aphrodesiac, supposedly even stronger than domestic
Notre Dame 's insistence that the any "potential" loss of enrollment at 
varieties grown on campus. This drug, like TD, is used most heavily in
number of credit hours of SMC students SMC by Notre Dame students. Now that 
the fall, though students conduct a lively year-round traffic in it.
enrolled at ND not exceed the number of the joint statement has been released, 
SBP: called the "spring scour age," this vicious "up" has ruinedcredit hours taken by ND students at though, both sides should quickly follow many a good mind. Addicts, said to be on "ego trips," turn into SMC. with some more of the vital details. gregarious glad-banders, with a smile and hand-shake for everyone. 
The Payment System F:xcess SBP dosage makes the unwary user forget previously-made 
Particularly, Fr. Burtchaell should 

statements, and then "crash" for a year of disappointing per­
clarify which of the "individual tuition 

formances. <NOTE: Progress has been made in eradicating SBP.
The initial solution had been the charges" are going to be waived and 
Pre-med student Bob Kersten has successfully detoxified the campus payment system outlined above. Of which of the "special fees" still stand. It of the terrible drug by providing a substitute whose effects are similar course, the payment systkm worked won't make much difference because the to laughing gas.) because the demand for Notre Dame main charge has been eliminated but if course was significantly reduced when the spirit of cooperation is once again
the charge was added. Fortunately, both upon us; then, it wouldn't hurt to Th<' f<'ar<'d <>PA schools realize that the payment system 
straighten such things as library and GPA: this substance ranks right up there with SBP in French-fryingdiscriminated unfairly against those athletic fees also. peoples' minds. The pitiful thing is that Notre Dame not only tolerates students not rich enough to pay twice for the use of this fearful drug, but also controls and regulates it. The their education. John Abowd purity of GPA is rated on a numerical scale from 1 to 4.0. The 
University also encourages students to "graduate," presumably to 
U nf:Z~f.~.i!~Un~~?.~,IIJ?.If.:W.:itn~}M~~r.lw.lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll IIIIIIII11111111111111111111111111111111111111111 il harder and harder GPA. This drug's effects are similar to those of "speed," namely blood­shot eyes, withdrawal from friends, worry and paranoia, fear and trembling and sickness unto death.
SMC has repeatedly stressed Michigan. Many of the Michigan
Letters... 

that they are merely keeping the play<'rs had been "hot-dogging" The worst GPA cases can be seen every night from 11 a.m. to 11 p.m. p<'ace. in their carrels, their faces fixed in a zombie-like trance. These are
throughout the entire game, 

the notorious "GPA freaks."
(Name withheld) 

popcorn <'specially their freshman goalie.Concerned Student On a particular play his own man F:ditor: skat<'d into him injuring him for 
ACC, TV. and Beer 

Hl': Popcorn Mercy Mission at th<' second time during the game lloly Cross Hall, SMC hockey But rather than show any type of ('Onc<'rn for him, the "Fanatics"
The Holy Cross Staff Security r:ditors: ACC: Despite rip-off prices, the pushers of ACC are looking for
again showed their true colors by

Council at SMC held an un­As most students are aware, the another boom year. This drug synthesized by the Ellerbe Labs as a
{'heering the fact of his injury.

prl'cedented emergency meeting Notre Dame Hockey Team. has substitute for TD, absolutely MUST be taken in large groups, or the
W<' do not hope to condemn

to discuss the latest developments· started its 1972 campaign to drug's revivalistic fervor is lost. Music, athletic events, or other
· ehC'ering games;

in the popcorn situation. <The achieve first place in the Western at the in fact drugs <especially HTH and SMC> are a vital part of ACC "trips."
aft<'r conversations with several

nweting was held up several hours Collegiate Hockey Association. "Gold coats," or dealers in the ACC. Syndicate, have been in­
play<'rs it helps. Yet the rooting

because an argument ensued over This year's team has already strumental in turning on many otherwise straight Indiana townsfolk. 
s<'ction should go at it with some

the shape of the table used.) shown. vast improvement over last For shame. 
tact. It's great to get on one player

An undisclosed source revealed vc>ar's, but the student fans, in TV: It is estimated that at least 80 percent of the student body are 
or th<' whoe team, but when he gets 

that firm measures were proposed particular the "Fanatics" have "heavy" TV users. The rest are completely hooked. Symptoms of TV
nailed and is obviously in some

and <'Xpected to be executed. It is shown nothing but bush league addiction include inanity, insanity, stagnation, vegetation, and all­
pain. try to confine your cheers.

rumored that bags of popcorn have cheering. It is one thing to support inclusive knowledge of the anti-perspirants of the Western world. 
This letter is not an attempt to

already been filtered thru to the om•'s home team vehemently, yet B<'er: This drug is so terrible that experts in the drug culture refer 
divide factions of the cheering

hall. The Staff feels this definitely to go to the extremes these fans do to it by nicknames only, such as "Old Milwaukee," or even "The
sC'ctions, and the letter will most

constitutes an act of aggression on is surely in poor taste. Golden Foam of Notre Dame." Though it has been virtually aban­
likely be scoffed at by the

the part of the University of Notre The first display of idiocy came doned on other campuses in favor of more conventional drugs, Beer
."Fa"natics". But for God's sake

Dame. during the Bowling Green game thrives in this area's damp climate. Recently, students have taken to
clowns, smarten the hell up.

in the interest of preserving when one of the opposing players importing large quantities of the stuff from southern Michigan, where p<'ac<' an array of anti-aircraft was penalized. Out of the midst of it supposedly grows wild. "Cans," the fruit-producing part of the Beer 
John Pvke

guns have been mounted on the S<•ction Seven came two brave plant, have been spotted in students windows giving rise to speculation
John Bulger

lront porch of Holy Cross Hall and souls who proceeded to pound on that students are "growing their own." 
Joe Essmanhand grenades have been issued to the windows of the penalty box. 

Don Sommonsall students. Armed guards will be They immediately fled, whereupon Mark A. Murphyposted at the entrance on U.S. 31 their cohorts cheered wildly. A 

the observer
Gary Gerraroand an alert will be sounded at the further example of foolishness Tom McHugh

first sign of plastic gags, big or cam<' during the second game of Managing Editor: Joe Abell
John J . Murphy

little. last weekend's series against News Editor: Anthony Abowd St. Mary's Editor: Maria Gallagher Editorial Editor: Jerry Lutkus 
features Editor: Rod Braye Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson

fiarry trudeau 

~------------------~ 

;r Gor THR{)()6H IIJUl-, I'M t-IISr NlfiHr IVITH HIIPPY YOt!VE /1 GCJ()P, 501.)/V£) 60T ff 
I)NpEfR.
..st..e~~ 111/Z. NO 
CONI/lOt..
IVO~ !fllll.K SPITZ P~HS. 
\ 
I 

r 
HI 
rHeRt:! 
I 
Campus Editor: Ann therese Darin Associate Editors: Bob Higgins, Ed Ellis Special Projects Editor: Dan Barrett 
ISSUE STAFF 
Night Editor: George Lund Ass't Night Editor: Art "Sunshine" Esposito Design: Lynn DiGiulio. Tim Neuville, Joe Abell, 
Jerry Lutkus Day Editor: Tom Drape Sports Night Editor: Jim Donaldson Pictureguys: Jim Hunt, Jerome Chrome Night Controller: Phil Orscheln Typists: Mark Niederkorn, Barb Norcross, Dianne 
Chermside, Harry Chung 
Editorials printed In The Observer reflect the opinion of the writer on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the 
opinion of the Individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial comment. 
--~ 


Thursday, November 16, 1972 the observer 
7 

Jesus and youth: three viewpoints 
by Joseph Abell Managing Editor 
Fourth in a series 
A chance to put the devil down 
without the fear of hell. 
Salvation spreads the gospel round 
and free you from yourself. 
-Bernie Taupin 

"J<.'sus Now!" "Halleluia, the Lord is coming!" "One Way: Jesus!" "Go with Jesus!" 
These a're the sounds of something new: the sounds of the Jesus movement sweeping most of the country. Suddenly, Jesus Christ is the fashionable thi.ng; yo~th are becoming more and more turned on to h1m. MaJor events , like Explo '72 in Dallas last summer, and Key '73, nexy year, bring to the movemnt, via ~e m;ws media, the immediacy of pezce moves mad~ m VIet­nam. and provide a central focus upon wh1c~ ?ther groups can expand, and push their own individual message. Smaller events, such as Jesus people, per­sonally "witnessing to their faitlil" and helping people to "invite Christ into their lives" become the cornerstones for massive programs ofevamgelism. Never mind dgugs, nev3r mind meditation, Jesus .is the answer. 
But is he? Is Jesus really the experience that many groups such as the Campus Crusade for Christ, the Billy Graham Crusade, and the Pentacostal groups make him out to be? Is this a "real" Jesus that is flaunted and h<.'adlined across the country and the world? Is this new r<.'!igious· fanaticism really new? 
Opinions to these questions can be heard from nearly nvone interested in the phenomenon, but ones of con­s~quence are heard fom people most involved with the movement: church leaders and spokesmen. 
Three such spokesmen, Rev. Spurgeo~ M. DunnaJII, III, Fr. William Toohey, and Leonard Bialla~, pro~1Cie different views on the subject of evangelism: 'the Protestant viewpoint, the Catholic Viewpoint, and the Catholic-oriented secular viewpoint. 
What is it? 

Fr. Toohey sees the movement as a possible escape from the pain of a lack of intimacy in people's lives. 
"We're more-or-less made for happi11ess," he claimed, "we have a need for it --call it peace, con­t<.'ntm<.'nt fulfillment, all are the same --but we need ebody, something." The failure to handle this need inful experience, and it forces people to somehow .r<>,,n,.nrt, to escape from that pain. 
noted extreme ecape methods such as drug usage, 
weekend drunk," trancendental meditation, "even 
devotional practice:' He tentatively added 
to that list as another possible ecape. 

"But," he added quickly, "When Jesus becomes my 
igh, there's an imbalance.~> 
Be explained this imbalance descri~in~ people ~ho m(•rely "get high" on Jesus as unreabstically dealmg with their problem, which leads to a desire for more "highs" and a detachment from the rest of the world. 
Be compared a "J~sus high" to Peter's reacti.~n wh<.'n on the mountain With Jesus, Moses, and EliJah, he wanted to remain with Jesus; he wanted to maintain his high. 
Reverend Dunnam, on the other hand, sees the 
movement as the current part of a vast cycle of history. 
"People tend to operate in a cyclical fashi1m: you start 
to go in one way, and it becomes the vogue," he said. 
"This stirs a small reaction that pushes it back the other 
wazy ," resulting in a balancing of tension. . . 
The current fascination with Jesus, he explamed, IS a 
reaction to something left out of faith in the past few 
years. In the sixties, most mail}line Protestant chur­
ches, and the Catholic Church to a·small extent, bega_n 
to emphasize the social side of the gospel, an emphasis 
that caused the evangelical thrust to be lost. 
"What we're seeing now is not something new, but a 
rediscovery of something very basic to Christian 
faith," said Dunnam. 
..what we're seeing is not something new II 
Leonard Biallas gave three reasons for the movement, all dealing with an attraction for its central object, Jesus. First of all, he said. youth see Jesus as a hero. "Everybody needs a hero," he declared. "That's what the students are picking up about Jesus­he's a hero who is very much like them; he's not a phony." 
Secondly, Jesus is a man with insights youth admire. Here, Biallas related life to "an odyssey," a journey that is comprised of two things: a steady day­to-day living that is methodically completed, and the unexpected, "the element of dane~ the e~e~ent of adventure." He said that Jesus had the ms1ght to realize this and to appreciate it. 
Finally, he said, you~ s.::e ~esus as kr.IOwledgeable ?f both his powers and his limits. "He ts aware of his recognizes his oneness with God the Father, and he recognized his humility as God the .so~; Therefor~, he is authentic, and the youth see this, he explamed. 
Why now·~ 

But the pain of lack of intimacy, the attraction of Jesus, and the evangelism cycle are not new things. Why is the evangelism movement popular now, as opposed to other times, especially with the youth? 
"I think the youth today are much more sophisticated and that they are aware of the fact that the American Dream is ended," declared Biallas. 
Each generation must live with a myth, he said, and the myth of this generation is different from the one of their parents: 
"The myth of the American Dream was the idea of going west for freedom or coming to the melting pot of Americ for an equal chance to succeed," he explained. "Now. the myth is the myth of the moonlanding --an unlimited element of risk and the possibility of growth­-something to reach for." 
This new myth, he said, symbolizes an odyssey of life: the journey into space is both a technological journey and a human odyssey, full of adventure. Through this double symbol youth have discovered two new areas of exploration: the moon and the depths of the individual. And in both extending an inquisitive hand toward the moon and looking within themselves, he concluded, "youth have moved from an insistence of the afterlife, and the eternal to an insistence on this life and on the attempt to insert the eternal into this life." 
He added that young people have realized this not only from Jesus, but also from drugs and Eastern religions. Thus, the Jesus movement is " a com­bination of different things." 
Fr. Toohey also sees the youth of today as spiritually and consciously superior to the youth of other times. "(They) are more caught up in the significance of being like Jesus," he said, rather than merely imitating him. They are more aware of social problems, injustices and dilemnas. They see Jesus as a "champion" for various causes, like non-violence and moral objection. 
..it's a radical movement that tan be very romantic II 
He pointed out the image of Jesus as a martyr, and the appeal of martyrdom to youth. "It's a radical kind of movement that can be very romantic," he said. 
Be also noted the fascination of modern youth with the idea of Jesus as man, as opposed to Jesus as God. He said that he could see the appeal of Jesus "when he is presented as the exemplar of one who cares." as a man rather than as an aloof God. 
Rev. Dunnam's idea of contemporary youth is that of disgust with the Christianity of their parents. He believes that they see their parents "mired down in institutional Christianity, with their bridge clubs, pancake breakfasts, chili suppers, and bazaars," and other adults involved in various social activities. 
They've tried all these things, he said, and they have "found something missing in their lives." 
"They start to look for something different, and they discover something for the first time: the outward nature of the gospel," he said. 
He emphasized that this discovery is not the first of its kind in the church, but merely a re-discovery caused by a searching for something more meaningful to youth. something to which they are better able to relate. 
Is it real? 
"I don't think we'll know if this movement is real until ten years from now; there's just no way of telling," Dttnnam claimed. 
"It's both a fad and it's genuine. Only the future will tell which it really is," he said. 
Dunnam asserted that youth are more discriminating than adults, and are better able to judge for them­selves. 
"That's really a good thing," he added. "I don't want my child to be a Christian merely because I am one." 
'He sees the "witnessing" efforts of many groups as a hopeful sign of true faith in Jesus: "No faith is really faith until it is experienced and internalized and then <.'xternalized, as in witnessing," he said. . 
Biallas agrees with Dunnam in his ignorance m knowing for sure if the movement is a true com­mitment to God. He expessed an optimistic viewpoint however by saying, "I would like to believe that there is an element of the spirit present among the Jesus people today as there is among those in the Pentecostal movement." 
He also feels that the current Jesus movement is a "passing phenomenon," but believes that to be a Jesus person and to experience the exhiliration of sharing !1 "high" is more than worth the risk. "It's better to do It than miss the chance," he said. 
Fr. Toohey is a bit more pessimistic: 
"The criterion of whether or not this is a genuine conversion is to be seen in the fruits. And that comes down to a level of neighbor." _ 
He again used his illustration of Peter and Jesus on the moutain. Peter wanted to maintain his '~high" of Jesus, "but Jesus forced him to go down from the mountain and to live a life of giving." 
He went on to say that a true committment to Jesus involves more than simply witnessing and singing Halleluia, it involves helping one's neighbor, helping society. 
"Someone genuinely convert~ has the love of god, which creates an urgency to experss that love," he said. "If the love is not going out, then he may have 
turned solely to God, and love o( neighbor is forgotten." Man hence lQses his salvation because, "while it is faith that is the criterion for salvation, love is the criterion for faith." 
It is this lack of involvement with neighbor that most bothers Fr. Toohey : 
"Why don't people in the evangelism thing have more involvement in the peace movement, in civil rights, third world concerns, work for justice, prison reform and other?" he wondered. 


•
I'm looking for someone to change my life I'm looking for a miracle in my life. -Justin Hayward 
Len Biallas is a layman of the Roman Catholic faith. He is currently a professor of Theology at the University ofNotre Dame. He is a former C.S.C. priest who left the priesthood last spring "to better involve himself in his ministry." He is also the first 
C.S.C. priest to leave the order and remain on the faculty of the Notre Dame Theology department. 
Look around again 
It's the same old circle 
You should grab a hold of it 
Else you'l! find 
It's passed you by. 
-David Crosby 
Reverend Spurgeon M. Dunnam, III is a minister in the United Methodist Church. He is currently the editor of The Texas Methodist. a chain of over 100 church newspapers across seven states. He is also the general manager and editor of the United 
Methodist Reporter, a newly created national 
newspaper of the United Methodist Church. 
Rev. Dunnam lives in Dallas, Texas. 


Their children kneel in Jesus till They learn the price of nails; Whilst all around our Mother Earth Waits balanced on the scales. 
-Peter Sinfield 
Reverend William Toohey is a Roman Catholic priest in the C.S.C. order. He is currently the head of campus ministry at the University of Notre Dame. He is also on the central staff of the Vice-President of Student Affairs and has recently organized a year­long program on huni'an sexuality with Fr. Thomas McNally. 

-
He illustrated his point with the incident of Jesus' involvement with his discip1es by washing their feet. 
"At the end of the world, nobody's going to ask, 'Did you get high on Jesus?' but 'Did you ever wash feet?'" he said. 
"I don't want to put the Jesus people down," he stressed. "To sing Halleluia is very important but washing feet is our task." 
Tomorrow: Fr. Toohey, Rev. Dunnam and Mr. Biallas continue their views on modern youth and evangelism, turning their attention to the major events, such as Key 73 and Explo '72, and what they see in the future for the movement. Also: a comment. 




, 
-
-·· 
Thursday, November 16, 1972 

Theatre Nates 
Summer and smoke: alma's play 

I. franklin d•vine 
The second major production for the ND­SMC Theatre's season opened on the old boards of Washington Hall last weekend. Charles Hemerdinger's production of TPnnessee Williams' Summer and Smoke is a fine, solid show. 
Williams' fascination with women whose worlds crumble around them such as Laura in The Glass Menagerie and Blanch DuBoi rn A Stret>tcar Named Desire is again in (•vidence in Summer and Smoke. 
The play keys onn Alma Winemiller, daughter of a small town Southern minister. 

ThP repressed half-girl, half-woman suprPsses her love for the young doctor next door until it's too late. 
Maribeth Fencl turns in an extraordinary appParance as Alma. Fencl bangles the dPvelopmPnt of Alma delicately. She gives us a. haunted womaJ?. a frightened girl, gropmg at love. Durmg the second act of 
Summt>r and Smokt> Maribeth Fencl turns in hPr finest pPrformance on the ND+SMC stage. 
B(•cause of the strength of Eilliam's womPn as characters, his men often seem to suffer by comparison. Nevertheless, Ray BPrndt's young Dr. Buchanan suffered from more ·than the script's treatment of men. BPrndt's stiffness in the role of the devilmay-care young playboy robbed the production of much of its irony. It's hard to believe that John Buchanan isn't even more repressed than Alma. 
Mary Walsh added a bright point to the show as the demented Mrs. Winemiller. With movement and voice tone Walsh brought a character which might have been little more than a littlerary device to life. 
There were a number of impressive performancesturned in by members of the cast. Debbie Tirsway as the young, bubbly Nellie, as well as Cliff Fetters and Tom Mules come to mind immediately. Fetters and Mules added a needed light touch to the tragic story, portraying members of an "intellectual" club of young parishoners at the Winemiller church. 
Sum mt>r and Smoke marked the ND+SMC directing debut of Dr. Charles ~eimer~inger. He offered the audience an theater intimacy to the play's action. The set. as well as Faith Adams costumes, was subdued, almost colorless. Ellen Harrington's lighting, with its greens was a stark complement to the set and costumes. 

At times the starkness of the performance gave a viewer the impression that he was watching a black and white film instead of a live performance. Nothing was to take away from the tragedy of Alma. 
Occasionally the intimacy of the theater's set worked against it's advantages. Im­portant scenes played on the floor levels to thP Pxtreme left' and right were blocked strangely. Crucial scenes were played Pxcluding the view of large portions of the audience. Half the audience would be drawn closely into the action while the othPr half was left out in the cold. This was at­rociously frustrating during Alma's final confrontation with the reformed Dr. John in the Buchanan office, when members of the audience stage left were left staring at Dr. John's back. 
Summ£'1' and Smoke is a moving 
mterestmg study of personality was reflected charascter study of tragic beauty with a m all elements of the show. tight strong cast. It continues at Washinton Hall Thursday, Friday and Saturday nights Richard Bergman's set spilled out onto at 8:30. Admission for students, faculty and 
the auditorium floor, giving an almost arena 

staff remains $2.00. 





The hijack problem's getting no better 
by Tom Wicker tel l!li2 Nt>w York Times News Service 
New York, Nov. 1:1-Sooner or later an airline hijacking is going to result in a ~eal disaster --hundreds dead in a crash, or a bloody shootout in the sky, or even the reality of something as bizarre as last weekend's threat to crash a hijacked Southern Airways' Airline's plane into the Oak Ridge Atomic Installation. 
.~'ro~ably there is no way to stop h•Jackmgs altogether, just as determined Pffor~s. new llegislation, improved tPchmques and the like have failed to prevent assaults on political leaders, or the oecasional kidnappings that still occurs. Putting armed marshals aboard all planes Is dearly not the answer; they might have some deterrent effect, but not enough and they raise the odds on what no one should want to happen -an exchange of gunfire in a erowded, pressurized passenger cabin. 
Detection procedures more stringent 
l>Pt<>ction procedures at the airports have bP('n n•cently more stringent; frequent airlin<' traveiPrs know that they probably will haw to stand in long lines to have their bripf easps or pocketbooks checked and that \l'orn<•onP will remmaging through their ~hirts ;md underwl'ar if they have carry-{)n luggag••. EIPetronic devices are supposed to dPt<>et mptaJ concPaled on the person or in 
luggagt•. 
1\J;uJii'Pstly, thesE.' procedures <;till arl' not good • ·nough. .Just recently. I passed :hrou~~~~ an Pkctronic detector at a major .1 irpo11 11 hilt· varrying in a brief case a hulk~ ••wtal pag(' -numb<·ring device; nt·lth•-r ~lw tl•·lt't'lor nor th•· altl'nrlants nnliCt·d ;ts rw:tr ••" I cnuld IPII Yl'! tlw 
in concert THURSDAY NOVEMBER 30 7:30pm Tickets: $4.50 (advance, $5.00 
door) 
Available at Morris Civic Box Office and Pandora's or call 8253. MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 219 N. Michigan Ave. Downtown South Bend 232-6954 

device was bigger and heavier than some small pistols. On the same weekend as the Southern Airways hijack, I cought a Saturday night flight; but 15 minutes after scheduled departure, the passengers were still at the gate, waiting for the marshals to inspect their handbags. The marshals 
never came, and the airline finally ordered everyone aboard without inspection. 
The three Southern Airlines hijackers apparently were spotted at the gate as fitting the behavior pattern the marshals look for; even so, they got aboard with an arsenal of deadly weapomns. No doubt they could and should have been stopped, but they weren't, and although no detection procedure will ever be airtight, here is one area where more obviously needs to be done --r.esponsibility sharply defined, adequate tramed personnel and equipment provided and meticulous procedures followed. ' 
ban on carry-on luggage needed 

As one who puts in many long hours on airplanes, I volunteer the idea that it is time for the airlines to ban carry-{)n luggage Pntirely --including brief cases, shopping bags, underseat bags, women's handbags if largl'r than can be inspected at a glance, bundles and parcels of all kinds. Only hooks, notebooks, magazines and n<>wspapPrs ought to be permitted, and topcoats ought to be search by hand as well as by t'lectronics. 
Th.is eould be done with no great in­convenience to passengers, if as thl'y left the gat!.' th(•y deposited all carry-{)n luggage in a sp(•cial container. This would go into the t'argo hold last and be off -loaded first, with pirkup availabh· in the gate lf,'c?J~,. ;u l'h departure point. That should nr·! ·,._ ; :•vr•i'cl tlw capacit~ of" Irlint·s ;; .. ,, sp.·.,, .... liit.·,.· 

One of the tangled romances of SUMMER AND SMOKE, the upcoming Notre Dame­Saint Mary's Theatre production, is bE·t­ween Paddy Donovan, as Rosa Gonzales, and Ray Berndt, as John Buchanan, Jr­The prodcution will run from November 10, 11, 16,17 and 18 on the Washington Hall stage at 8:30p.m. 
wicker 


to advertise their own greatness. wdl have been in reply to this senselwess bit 
Anyway, inconvenience and delay --of wild-west gun slinging, which could have perhaps Pven, on occasion, personal in-had no useful purpose. If the sad American dignity--will be necessary if there is to be a willingness to use violence as a response to real answer to the hijack threat. That an-social unrest is to be extended to airline swPr can only be to make the potential hijackings, real disaster may be nearer 
In The Natian 

hijacker so sure of detection in advance that few will even try it --just as the F.B.I. has made kidnapping an infrequent crime by its wPll publi(~ized abiility to catch the culprits. It would also help greatly if international agreementts removed any possibility of sanctuary for the hijacker. 
authority needed 
If that point is ever reached, it will be important that the President, or someone who can make it stick, should order the 
F.B.I. to stop trying to shoot it out and rPcapture a hijack plane by force. That is because the less frequent hijacking bPcomPs, the more likely that the hijacker will be irrational, desperate or both, and rPady to respond without regard to his own or anyone's life. 

F.B.I. trigger-happy 
M it is, the F.B.'I. seems altogether too triggPr-happy; the Southern Airlines hijacking was not the first in which gunfire was subst itutl.'d for better judgment, but it was one of the worst. Shooting out the tires of thl' plam· endangered passengers and (TPsw from stray bullets apd richochets; it mariP tlH nt•xt landing infinitely more f)('rilous l • all aboard; and it could Pither h.!\ •' •.·nr;,~.'l'd nr frightl'ned II::· hijackPr­
~~li~-1 (i-.~~;-, ··!•OilSP 
i.•.l! :·. • · .. · .. of thP l''' pilot m:1 than we think. 
W


SND to present 
top 200 hits of 


past fifteen years 
WSND-AM will present its top 200 of the last fifteen years beginnign Friday at 12:15 pm and running all night until game time Saturday afternoon. 
After the game Kevin O'Neil will rPviPw the top 200 andplay the top 10 from 5:30 to 6:00pm. 
"Although Its difficult to pick 200 tunPs fom the many top songs of the last fifteen years. we are trying to play 200 of the all-time favorites of our NotrP Dame listening audiPnel.'." according to Jim Murphy. AM program director. 
Bl'sidt·s O'Neil .eafl1pus per­"unalities Hll'h as Stan "the man'' l'rankar tS;~· trrday Midnight to 7), \i•·k KiPrmn, ·Friday 4-5), Steve 
'[lt•W(',V .. V."r···· · !FRiday 1-2) and !:rad \\\:.' :·,·iday 7:30 to 9:00 prn \\'ill '"'' ..1· turws 

~--------------------------·~ 

GOT LONG r-il\IR? 
WANT TO KEEP IT? We realize getting a haircut can be a traumatic experience. Ask for one inch off and they take 
two. 
If your tired of all that, may we suggest calling Miss Carot next time you need a trim. 

mu~.a 
HAIR DESIGN STUDIO, INC. 2010 SO. MICHIGAN ST. SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 288-1211 
Tues-Sat. Call for Appointment 


Thursday, November 16, 1972 tht;t observer 
9 


BOONE'S FARM, MODESTO, CALIFORNIA 









apple turnover. 

J 

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Thursday, November 16, 1972.

the observer 
Gay teacher sues for fair treatment 
(continued from page 3) not adversely affected by their exercise of constitutionally protected rights to privacy, free Pxpression, political activity, and association leadership." Acanfora, a resident of Washington, D.C., signed a con­tract this summer to teach earth science during the 1972-73 school ~·par at Parkland Junior High Sehool in Rockville. On Sept. 26 he rPceived a letter from Miedema. explaining that he was being transferred temporarily from his dassroom teaching assignment to a nonteaching position in the Montgomery County Public St·hools' Department of Curriculum and Instruction. 1\<'anfora has never been given a hearing and his requests for 
reinstatement to the classroom have been refused. 
Aecording to the complaint filed today, articles appearing in Washington, D.C., and New York City newspapers Sept. 25 reported that Acanfora, who belonged to a homosexual group while a student at PPnnsylvania State University, ahd been granted teaching credentials by the Pennsylvania State SPcretary of Education. 
The articles revealed that Acanfora, after his affiliation with the homosexual group became known, had been suspended from student teaching by a district in the State College, Pa., area having a cooperative arrangement with l'mn State. He sued the district and was reinstated within a week. 
After he was graduated last 

SMC sponsors art contest to redo old observatory 
All students, faculty, and staff of SMC individually or with collaborators, are invited to· submit designs for transforming the dome of the defunct astronomical observatory into a prominent art object on campus. 
The sponsors of the project, the Departments of Art and of Chemistry and physics, expect a 
Money from GE 
GUts totaling $8,260 from the Gen~ral Electric Foundation's CorP<itate Alumnus program have hPen received by the University of Notre Dame for 1972. 
The gifts represent matching funds from the foundation for contributions from Notre Dame alumni and other friends employed bv GPneral Electric. The tiniversity was among the 795 institutions sharing employee gifts of $847,197 and foundation con­tributions of $511,579. 
suitable design of high artistic quality for possible installation during the Spring Semester of 1973. 
A ceremony and presentation of prizes would take place at com­mPncement in May. 
Thf prizes will be a $200 First Prize, with the obligation and opportunity to execute the design on the dome, and a $50 doll Second Prize. 
The criteria determining the selections will be mainly artistic mPrits, within the 'limitations of cost and engineering. One of the purposes of this competition is to foster mutual respect and un­derstanding between artists and scientists. The judges may give preference to designs which reflect the origin and purposes of the dome. 
Final date for submission of designs is February 1, 1973. For further information contactSister Rose Ellen Morrissey, (4074) or Prof. Stanley Lichtman, (4063). 



ALSAC asks for dona.tions 
Volunteers from Notre arne and St. Mary's will be going door to door in Notre Dame dorms tonight to collect funds for ALSAC (aid to Leukemia Stricken American Children l, a foundation that sponsors leukemia and sickle cell anemia research. 
Tonight's project will begin at nine o'clock in the Flanner well. 
' Volunteers are invited to show up .. · . at that time or contact Jack, Rich, ~.-· Tim or Paul at 234-2334 for further 
-~, · · details. 
Sponsors of the collection point 'out that even if students are unable :1j to belp_in the door to door project 
they still have a chance to help needy children by contributing when a volunteer knocks on their door. 
Money raised through tonight's donations, along with the funds from collections before home football games and a Sacred Heart Church collection, will be for­warded to St. Judes children's Hospital. 
St. Judes, originated by Danny Thomas, is funded solely by donations. Along with research in· catastrophic childhood diseases like leukemia and sickle cell anemia, St. Judes provides free medical attention for children suffering from those ailments. 

Bridal Sets IMPORTED IY 
Also Concord Mall In Elkhart Downtown open Mon. & Thurs. 'tll9. Blackmond's open Frl 'til 9. Others open nite 'tll9. · 
June. the university certification eouncil deadlocked on whether he eould mPet provisions of state law ealling for teachers to be of "good moral character." The DuShane 
Fund financed his appeal to the State Secretary of Education. Aeanfora was a member of the Student NEA. 
Neither his teaching ability nor his eompetence was at issue in Pennsylvania or Maryland. 
"N01'1fE DAME -SAINT MARY'S THEATRE 
presents 

SUMMER AND SMOKE 

Tennessee William's beautifully fragile drama of frustrated love 
Washington Hall 
Notre Dame campus Nov.10, 11, 16, 17, 1Bat8:30pm Students s·t jO Phone Reservations 284-4176 



THE LAST HURRAH! 
Celebrate the big winner •• Notre Dame 
Antiaue 
Bourbon 

1 
/2 gal: $1 098 
G&W 

FIVE STAR 
!h gal. 
$9.95 

with the big winners! 
Corby's Reserve 


V2 gal. $10.60 
Popov Vodka 
112 gal. 



$9.05 

Crow'n Russe Vodka 
v2 gal. $9.20 
10% Discount by the Case *Keg Beer *Best Beer Prices In Town *Wine Cellar TOWN & COUNTRY LIQUOR RIVER PARK LIQUOR 
Town & Country Shopping Center. 2411 Mish. Ave. Open 9am-llpm Mon-Sat. 
FLYING WEST THIS THANKSGIVlNG OR CHRISTMAS ? 
Fly the airline chosen by the student trip and hockey ·team to Denver 


CONTINENTAL AIRLINES 
For information concerning flights 
West and lski trip opportunities, 
contact Co,ntinental's Campus Rep: 
TOM HANSEN 217 ZAHM 8922 


CONTINENTAL 
AIRLINES 
The Proud Bird with the Golden Tail 
• ­
Thursday, November 16, 1972 the observer 1 1 
Cagers look forward to opener 
by Vic Dorr Digger Phelps, if he could, would probably like to forget the 1971-72 basketball season. Now in his second year with the Irish. Phelps came to Notre Dame straight from a miraculous season with the Fordham Rams. He brought a youthful, dynamic basketball program with him to South Bend, but he inherited an Irish squad which was small and very inexperienced, and which had lost both its captain-elect and its most promising sophomore to pre­season injuries. Those circumstances, coupled with the toughest schedule in the nation. did not provide a good breeding ground for miracles, and there were few worked in the ACC last year. Phelps' cagers finished li-20, and suffered particularly Pmbarrassing defeats at the hands of Indiana and UCLA. But this year the Irish coach is looking for. at least a partial tur­. His team is still young, but h s the benefit of experience-­. and possibly six, lettermen urn from last year--and will be by the addition of four ·of last season's high­freshman team and a pair f li-9 freshmen. And John Shumate (6-9, 235), a in eligibility who was elined by thrombophlebitis ior to the '71 campaign, will also a member of ND's '72 lineup. ' roster is an impressive the schedule is also in­e--again it is one of the 's most demanding--and will ge both Phelps and his ball 
"Our goal is improving on last r's 6-20 record," said Digger. P have experience coming back certain areas, but at the same we'll have four kids who 't played varsity ball before well as two freshmen, and y Varga, who is a walk-on. "On paper, we should be better last year. We should improve every position on the floor. We'll Shumate in the middle, and big and physical, and should able to dominate. He'll be facing of his own size, of course, 
RIDES WANTED 
Need ride west on 1-80 to central Illinois · CDec. 1 or 2, call 8036. 
Need ride to Tulsa, Okla. Nov. 22 · Call Linda 4637. 
Need ride to Detroit on Nov. 22. Please call Dan at 8810. 
Need Thanksgiving ride to Omaha. Can leave Nov. 20 6970. 
Need ride to turkey in In· dianapolis Tues. or Wed. 8573. 
Ride to Albany N.Y. wanted Thanksgiving, call 7982. 
Need Thanksgiving ride to Pitt. Monday or Tues. will pay call Joe 1368. 
Ride needed to Syracuse­Binghamton.Scranton area for Thanksgiving. Call Dan . 3702. 
Ride needed to Kansas City at Thanksgiving . George 7861. 
Need ride to Thanksgiving to D.C. area for three girls. Will share expenses. Marianne 4197. 
Girl desires ride to Peoria, Illinois Sunday Nov. 19 Call 6865. 
Need Thanksgiving ride to N.J. leave Nov. 19. Drake 8427. 
Need ride east. Destination Boston, leave Nov. 17. 8906. 
Need ride to Princeton, New Jersey for Thanksgiving. Philly or vicinity will pay, call Tom 7852. 
Need ride to O'Hare Friday Nov. 
17. Call Joe at 7471 or 232-5633. 
Need ride for one to Milwaukee. I can leave in the afternoon, Mon. 20 Nov. Call Paul 8276. 
Need ride east to New England. Can leave Tues 21 or Wed. 22. Will pay. Please. Call Tom 6160. 
Need ride to Pittsburgh for two. November 19. Call 4104. 
Desperately need ride to N.Y.C:. or vicinity. Leave No•r. 17. Will share expenses, call 287-6010. 

"Your personell requires that high post, and Brokaw and Novak 
they're just starting to know each you make adjustments to what you on the wings. 

other. Once we mature, we're 

like to do as a coach," said Phelps. "The kids have adapted very going to be tough to beat. I'm not "I love to press and play gambling well to the system," said Phelps, 
saying that we won't lose--but I am 

defense, so this year we'll press "but we are still a young team. We 
saying that we'll be tough to beat." 

more and we 'II play more wPre young last year, too, but this 
Phelps' squad will begin playing 

agressive defense at half-court. We is like starting over again. Ex­
together "for real" on November 

want to play defense in a style perience will be our greatest 
27th. when they entertain the 

which will create an offense, We teacher, and until we get in games, 
Australian National team at the 

want to take things from our op­in stress situations, I can't really 
ACC. Prior to that, this coming

ponents that they like to do. We project just how we'll do. But I can 
Monday, the Irish will start their 

want to make them force their see them improving with every 
annual charity exhibition game.

game, and we'll do all right if ourshots, and we want to create This year's game will be an intra­
turnovers. All of this helps our sophomores are able to play like 
squad affair:and an admission ofjuniors.

offense." 
50 cl'nts or one can of food will be"But we have to be fair, and we requested.

NO's offense this year will be run have to be patient with them. 
Thf.' Irish open their regularfrom a 1-3-1 spread, with Clay Wf.''re not a senior ball club, or a season with a December 2nd road 

handling the "quarterbacking," junior club either. Our kids are just 
gamP against Michigan's

and Shumate at low post, Crotty at starting to play together, and Wolverines, and then return home for a Of.'cenber 4th clash with the Ohio State Buckeyes.
Irish fencers win ND tourney "This will be a great year for 
Pxperience," said Phelps. "And if

Although there was a large field Thl're will be a Blue-Gold meet
"In Gary Brokaw ( last year's we can get that experience this
of fencers from several Midwest today in the fencing gym, above the 
leading freshman scorer) and yf.'ar we'll be in good shape for the 
schools. the final rounds of the hockey rink. The meet will be open 
Dwight Clay (6-3, 175 and 5-11, 175) future. Bt>cause next year, we'll
Notre Dame Open fencing tour­to the public.
WP have two guys with real in­still be a young team." 
nament held Saturday looked likecentive to compete in the back­an intrasquad meet. Notre Damecourt. Now, if we can go above .500 
Pventually captured first place inthis year, that'll be tremendous. 
all three weapons, sweepiag theThat;s our big goal, considering saber competition in the process.
the competition on our schedule." Joining Shumate, Brokaw, and 
s H u L A 'S
In spite of the presence of a past
Clay will be Pete Crotty (6-8, 190) Indiana champion and last year's
who cl'ntered last year's freshman runner-up, the saber competition 
Miami Hurricanes

tf.'am, and returning regulars Tom was dominated by the Irish. All six 
Hansen, Chris Stevens, Gary fencers made the final round, and 
(a lot of Hot Air)

Novak. Don Silinski, and Ken Hon Sollitto, eventually won, with 
H H
Wolbeck.Willie and Mike Townsend Hav SPitz second and Dave Batew 
are listed on the Irish roster, but 
prepare for the storm.
third.

their status depends on the post­In the foil and epee competion,season plans of the Irish football 
OUR FORECAST IS CLEAR-­

Notre Dame eliminated its ownteam. 
u u
fl'ncers, and only one entrant are two freshmen, 6-9 Roger An­
Also on the ND roster this season placed in each weapon. Mike 
IT'S TIME TO MAKE IT TO: 

derson <who is.(;urrently recoering Mattranga finished first in epee, from a severe ankle sprain) and 6-9 while Tom Coye copped the foil Myron Schuckman. honors. 
L
L 

A 
,
Are you interested in serving on the 
s ~..JVite Cfu~ 
2802 SOUTH 11th ROAD

Preprofessional Advisory Committee? 
A
NILES. MICHIGAN 49120 Phone (>83-4350 

Positions include: 3 AED members, 3 science PP students, 1 non-PP science student, 1 AL PP student. For information 
s H u L A 'S
contact Tom Pilla, 424 'Zahm, 1443 or Chuck Shioleno' 1123 Grace, 7824. 
... 
MEN WOMEN WORK ON A SHIP NEXT SUMMER! No experience required. Excellent pay. Worldwide travel. Prefect 
summer job or career. Send $2.00 for information. SEAFAX Box 2049-1 G, Port Angeles, Washington 98362. 

Wanted ride: to N.Y.C., Boston or Desperately need $5.50 tickets for 



CLASSIFIED ADS 
NOTICES

anywhere in Vermont on Friday YES. Will pay top dollar. Call The John Fitzgerald Kennedy or Saturday Nov. 17 or 18. Call John at 6891. School of Government of Harvard
Typing Essay-term paper-thesiS·
234-4547 after 7:30pm. Will share University announces a new
desertation-technical or research 
expenses. Riders needed to Central Penn­qraduate program in Public
report We do them
sylvania leaving noon, Nov. 22. Policy. Ph.D., Master's or joint
Need ride to N.Y.C. area. Leave professionally, efficiently, and
Call 232-5573. Master's professional school
Wed. noon, Chris 3613. reasonable. Expert Secretarial 
degrees offered. Applicants

Service. 233-9466 or 233-3257.
Articles for the second issure of should be interested in pol icyThanksgiving ride wanted to the NOTRE DAME SCIENCE 
analysis and be at ease in both theLouisville. Leave 22nd. Jim-8831. 

BROWNSVILLE STATION, THE
QUARTERLY should be sub­
world of words and the world of mitted on November 17 in room numbers. Write Dean Harry
RASPBERRIES AND BANG IN 1 need a ride to Chicago this CONCERT, WEDNESDAY
329 NSH, or call 7838. 
Weiner, Littauer Center, Harvard

Sunday for the GRAND FUNK NOVEMBER 22 AT 8 pm AT 
University, Cambridge,

RAILROAD concert. Will share 
MORRIC CIVIC. WHY GO 
Massachusetts 02138 for catalogexpenses and ticket costs. Please 

HOME FOR THANKSGIVING?
FOR SALE and application.
call John at 8334. TICKETS $4.00 (ADVANCE). $4.50 (AT THE DOOR). ALSO,
Pimped by SMCy. Two tear-See the Irish Swimmers compete
$$Ride needed to Wash, D.C. Can CHEECH AND CHONG IN
stained tickets . YES for sale. in the 200 lap Marathon Sunday,
leave Tuesday. $$ Call Mark, CONCERT THURSDAY,
$4 • .o150 each. Call Tom 1688. Nov. 19th 6-10 pm. Admission
1733. After 11 pm. NOVEMBER 30 AT 7:30 pm. 
Free · Rockne Pool.

FOR INFORMATION OR WANTED TICKETS FOR BOTH CON­
1967 Lotus Elan Coupe 25,000 mi. Ski Aspen, Jan 6th-13th. $103.00 · 
CERTS, CALL 8253.
Excellent cond. $2275 · 272-1432. $25 deposif to Fr. Mertl:!nsolto by
Want to trade 8 pm ticket from Nov. 21. Rector: Lyons Hall.
HELP the helpless unborn, withO'Hare to NO for 10 pm ticket. 
MGB excellent condition. Best time, money, or both. Right-to Hurry! Few spaces available!
Bob 3246. 
offer, call: 232-2849. 
Life, .Inc. 233-4295. PITT CLUB THANKSGIVING 
Typing · all types, call Carol 259­
Amplg B-25 AMP 2-15 in. speakers BUSES. Buses leave from the
RUMOR· Well known F.Z. and
2555. 
250 watts $300, Rich 3504. continuing Center of Education Tuesday at 5:00 and Wednesday 
M.D. will play at CJF in April. 
Need 4 Miami general admission 
For sale: 2 YES tix ·on the floor. at 1:00 · Buses depart from the
Cleveland Club
tickets. Call Jim 233-5629. 
$5.50 each · 8810. Pittsburgh Greyhound Bus
Thanksgiving Busses Lea¥e Tues. night and Wed. af· 
Terminal Sunday at 5:00. Limited Wanted: ~oommate to share 
Noise makers for sale. Send room on the Wednesday bus only.
name and telephone number to ternoon. Call Gary 1774.
la.rge double in Howard Hall, now 
For additional information, callBox 685 NO, Indiana 46556.

or next semester. Phone 283-8182. 
Jim 8371 or Jeanne 5194.

Attention N D students! Need money for Thanksgiving
Needed: Student to fly with two PERSONALS
vacation? Borrow from
children to (Nov. 21) and-or from LOST AND FOUND Morrissey Loan Fund 11:15. 12:15(Jan. 15) Hawaii. Call Peter 288­Hotzie's Here.
Monday-Friday. Basement of
4326 or 284-4439. 
Notre Dame has reached Nir·Lost: woman's ring in Gym L of LaFortune. 

vana.

Convo Thursday night sen­
TYPISTS . needed to volunteer J.G.
timental value call 1067. Make $10 or more Si>~. Before the
their help during the Red Cross 
game. 7819.
Blood Drive Nov. 30 and Dec. 1. 
Where's Dave's little brother?

Lost: red and white mitten, please call Cathy 6924. Organizational meeting and work session Sunday Nov. 19 3:00 pm To the Scarecrow wlth a. mar· 
Please call Pete, 3412. 
Need riders to Minneapolis on Lost: Lucerne watch with white for anyone interested in being a velous brain, tinman with theMon Nov. 20th, call 3377. 
leather watchband. Call Mark, ski instructor at Royal Valley Ski kindest .heart and cowardly lion 7830. Resort, N. Main Street, with courage: thanks for being Buchanan. Michigan. Phone 616· there when I needed you most. All
Need 5 G.A. Miami tickets. Will 
Found . umbrella, call 8810. 695-3847. rny love,
pay a reasonable price. Call DorothyScott: 1791. 
Lost: SMC 1973 class ring, JMF, G.S.U. meeting, Friday, Nov. 17, call 4293. 
12 noon 127 Nieuwland ScienceNeed 5 general admission tickets 
Bldg.

for Miami, call 8680 Bill. 
• 

t 

-
Thursday, November 16, 1972
12 

the observer 
Dunne cmd Eichner-the running roommates 
by "Lt>fty" Ruschmann morning and running five-mile workouts. 
Ask Dan Dunne why he and Four · years of practicing,
fellow runner Jeff Eichner are mornings by the lakes and af­rooming together this year, and t<•rnoons on the golf course, have they will reply, half-jokingly, "to brought Dan Dunne an opportunity make sure we get each other up in to contend for national honors this the morning." For members of the Monday at the NCAA cross­Irish cross-country squad, "get­country championships, to be held ting up" means reporting to the in Houston, Texas. The national lakes at seven o'clock every ml'et will climax a career in which 

The Irish Eye 
:::::::::::::::::::::===============~=======:=:=:=:=:=:========================================================================:Ice Chips 
Paul Regan was never one to make a point of skating away from trouble. Always a scoring threat, Regan received plenty of attention from opposing clubs and in, hockey, attention generally means more than dose defensive coverage. It often means subtle holding, pokes with sticks and elbows and an assortment of "cheap shots". 
Not given to turning his cheek, Regan often returned such actions in kind, with a trick or two of his own gleaned from his years of junior hockey in Toronto. Such behavior didn't go unnoticed, or unpunished. 
As a fiery freshman, Regan was whistled into the penalty box 36 times (72 minutes) in just 29 games. And, although he mellowed a bit as a sophomore (59 minutes in the box), he reached a high of 73 penalty minutes last season, ranking eighth in the WCHA in that department. 
But this year, like many of the players on this first~ver veteran Notre Dame team, Regan is a changed man. He scored 30 goals last season and the Irish can ill afford to have that kind of scoring punch kept in enforced confinement. Regan was well aware of that and, with the added respon­sibility of the co-captain's job, decided that he belonged on the ice and not cooped up on the sidelines. 
The value of this kind of maturity was proved last weekend at the ACC when Notre Dame opened its WCHA campaign by sweeping a four-point series from Michigan, 5-2 and 8-5. On Saturday night, the Irish were bothered by inconsistent officiating and numerous illegal, though petty, harassments from the Wolverines. But they didn't blow up, as they tl'nded to do in past years. Instead, the Irish kept their poise and, after Michigan had closed to within 6-5 in the third period, again opened up a {'Omfortable margin. It was a meaningful development. 
"I think it's important that we didn't get rattled," Regan said in the locker room after Saturday's victory. "In the past, we might have let things like the officiating and rough play bother us but, tonight, we played steady hockey." 
Coach "Lefty" Smith agreed with Regan and added, "Our team is dl'finitely more mature this year and that maturity is emphasized by Paul himself. He caught a few "cheap shots" this weekend but he didn't retaliate. He stayed on the ice and his line kept scoring." 
Scoring hardly seems like the proper word to describe the activities of Notre Dame's top line, with Regan at center and Eddie Bumbacco and Ian Williams on the wings, last weekend. Something more grandiose, like 
ma~s production of points, is in order. That trio scored all five goals in Friday night's game and then accounted for six of the eight Irish tallies on Saturday. Williams picked up his second "hat trick" of the year in the series opener while Bumbacco recorded his second three goal game and lkgan his first the next night. In the four games Notre Dame has played thus far. the Regan-Bumbacco-Williams line has scored 23 of the team's 27 goals. 
With an output like that, some fans, at first glance, might think coach Smith more than a bit crazy to break up that line for the Denver series this weekend. But that's exactly what he's doing, putting John Noble in Regan's spot and moving the Irish co-captain back between Ray DeLorenzi and Larry Israelson. 
The move is hardly as drastic as it may seem. Noble, Notre Dame's leading scorer in each of his first three seasons, was slated to skate with Williams and Bumbacco before a severely bruised knee kept him out of action for a couple of weeks. Now that the knee has healed, Noble is ready to move back into his old spot and Regan is back with his pre­season linemates. 
"The move will give us a more balanced attack," Smith explained. "Rl'gan will beef up the scoring punch on his line and, being left-handed, should help Ray DeLorenzi score more often." 
"We're not giving away anything by taking Regan away from Williams• and Bumbacco," Smith/added. "That line has been together for most of the past two years." 
The third Irish line for the Denver series will be centered by Pat Conroy and have Mike Dunphy and D' Arcy Keating on the wings. 
Thanks to the Regan-Williams-Bumbacco combination, the Irish got plenty of offense in their first WCHA series but Smith wasn't so pleased by his club's defen:;ive showing, at least initially. 
"I was disappointed by giving up seven goals to Michigan," Smith said, ''but. when I saw the goals against statistics for the rest of the league, ours isn't so bad." Notre Dame's 3.5 goals against average in WHCA play is second only to Denver's 2.5 mark. 
The Irish will get a chance to spoil the Pioneers' goals against mark this Friday andd Saturday nights in Denver in a pair of games worth four points in league play. The Pioneers are currently tied for first place with Michigan State in the WCHA, after sweeping an eight-point series with Minnesota last weekend while the Spartans were doing likewise against Minnesota-Duluth. 
Notre Dame has never beaten Denver in Colorado, losing all six games it has played in the Pioneers' rink. This year, Smith hopes the Irish can reverse that trend. 
"WP're a bit more experienced than Denver this year and, fortunately, we play them early in the season," Smith said. "If we play good hockey, we can have a satisfying weekend,. I've been very impressed with our workouts this week. The team has been pushing hard." 
Sports Shorts: 
! 
Bumbacco has scored nine points (five goals and four assists) in WCHA competition, placing him in a tie for third place amo11:g t_he le~gue's leading scorers. North Dakota's Earl Anderson (3_--6-9) IS tied With t~e Irish left wingt:r, Colorado College's Doug Palazzan (8-4-12), last years WCHA scoring champ is second and Jim Cahoon of North Dakota (5-8-13) leads the league. Anderson, Palazzari and Cahoon have all played four 
league games, however, while Bumbacco has played just two. 
I 
Notre Dame's sweep of Michigan last weekend boosted the Irish into seventh place in the national collegiate hockey rankings compiled by a northern Michigan radio station. The Wisconsin Badgers ae currentlyI rated the nation's number one sextet. 
t 
he has led the Notre Dame squad for the last three years. Dunne, in the course of his career, has not only run consistently well, but has also been instrumental in providing the learlership often cited by coach Alex Wilson. 
One of Notre Dame's few scholarshp trackmen, Dunne i:s one who feels equally at home on the track, or running on the cross­country course. At Brother Rice High School in Chicago, Dunne supplemented his track activity by playing safety on the football team. Realizing he was too small for collegiate ball, Dunne tumed his attention to track, gi1ving passing consideration to several Midwestern universities. But a scholarship offer from Notre Dame promptly ended his in­decision. "There was no second choice once I had the ehance to come here," he ex­plained. 
Jeff Eichner also set his sights toward Notre Dame quite early, but he originally entertained no ideas about running track here. Jeff, a senior from Rochester, 
N.Y .. ('Xplained his sudden success. with the Irish, "I'm a distance runner, and I run better at the longer distances. Our high sehool events were only 2•12 miles, so my times weren't that impressiv,e." But Jeff decided to go out for track his freshman year, and quickly adapted himself to the six-mile eourse. earning a starting berth which he never relinquished. A four-year regular, Jeff alternates with Marty Hill for the number-two spot bl'hind Dunne. Eichner's career in collegiate track will not lead him to Houston, but it is far from over: Jeff plans to compete in both indoor and outdoor track:. 
Both Eichner and Dunne minimizl' individual triumphs, choosing instead to credit their all­around participation on the Notre Dame team as the major reason for enjoying track. "I best enjoyed thl' togetherness of this team," ('Xplained Dunne. "It's easy for a eross-country team to become close, for we do the same workouts and exercises -there's no specialization.;, Eichner admiitted to having made "a lot of sacrifices," but added that tlllese tendl'd to make his career "fun." 
Running under departing coach Alex Wilson also figured in their 
Boaters end' with viclay 
The Irish soccer club, fighting poor playing conditions on an undersized field, closed out its 1972 campaign with a resounding 7-3 victory over the University of Illinois. The win, Notre Dame's eighth in a row, lifted the club's final record to 10-5. 
The scoring was fast and frequent as the two teams played to a 3-3 halftime deadlock. Con­ditioning and teamwork paid off in the second half, however, as the Irish dominated play. The turning points were a fine save by goalie Nick Gross on a penalty shot, and a beautiful combination goal, which proved to be the decisive tally. Rich Eichner headed 1l(ml Pollahan 's throw-in to Steve Malpica. who booted it into the net to put Notre Dame ahead 4-3. The defense, meanwbile, regained the consistency it had shown all year, as fullbacks Bruce Graves, Sean Carroll. and Bob Ralph shut out the lllini the rest of the way. 

The victory was a credit to the fine play of halfbacks Pat Fllood and Steve Roach, and especially Tom Pollahan, whose playmaking settled the team and gave Notre Dame control of the game. Of­fensive impetus was provided by the strong play of Eichner who scored two goals, Mike Fitzgerald, who also 'scored twice and Gary Troy, who was instrumental in setting up the scores. Pollahan and Steve Welsh rounded out the Irish scoring. 

Thl' running roommates, Jeff Eichner, left, and Dan Dunne set out ()n 
thl'ir afternoon workout. 
enjoyment of running. Eichner 
applauded Wilson's concept of 
Dunne, Hill sel
individual responsibility, noting 
"it's up to the individual to do 

what's required of him." Team­
mate Dunne went on to predict fa NCAAs 
eontinued good leadership under Dan Dunne and Marty Hill, bothnew coach Don Faley, poinding to mainstays of this year's Irish crosshis enthusiasm and coaching 
experience. country team. qualified Saturd1y 
for the NCAA Cross CountryBoth Dunne and Eichner, who Championships.
plan on attending law school after 
graduation, feel some regrets The two ND harriers qualified byabout coming to Notre Dame. Jeff finishing high in the standings atrecalled his initial feeling before the annual Central Collegiatecoming here, that he "couldn't Championships (held this year at
make it" in college track but his Rowling Green University), andearly success quickly erased any will compete later this month insuch doubts. As for Dan, his early the Nationals in Houston. 
regret as a trackman was the lack of spectators at home meets. But Bowling Green took the team both agree that despite the title with 41 points to 49 for In­frustrations, small orowds, diana, the closest pursuer. lingering body aches, and dawn Eastern Michigan finished thii·d workouts, their Notre Dame with 75 points, and Notre Dame careers have been enjoyable. paced sixth with 160. 
BiII Greennmnn11m11nmmmm•muuunumnu 


Captain's Corner 
IUIIIIIIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllliiiiiiiiHIIIIIIIIIIII 
There is an old saying in the WCHA that a team who sweeps at home 
and splits on the road will win the league championship. It is an "old" 
saying because it originated before the establishment of the present 
"point system" of determining a champion. 
A brief explanation of this confusing system is in order. Each time in the league plays five teams four times, and the four others only twice. A win against an opponent met only twice is worth four points, while a win aga'inst the more familiar opponent is worth two points. If you weren't confused before, you must be by now. The final result is that each team plays 28league games for a possible total of 72 points. 
The effect this new system has on a team's drive for the championship is as confusing as the system itself. The four-point wins are, of course, at a premium, whether they are on the road or at home. The "old saying" might not always be applicable. For example, if Notre Dame won all of its home games and half of its road games, our record would be 21-7 com­piling a respectable total of 52 points. However, last year's champion Denver, had a total of 54 points with a record of only 19--9. It is con­ceivable that by sweeping at home and splitting on the road, we'd have the best record yet not win the championship for lack of points. 
Although the old saying may sometimes be invalid, there is a good chance that it will be the formula for success. Coaches and sportswriters agree that the WCHA is more balanced this year than ever before. It is not predicted that any particular team will dominate the win column, as both Denver and Wisconsin did last year. "Sweep at home, split on the road" may work. 
Last weekend's home sweep of Michigan went according to plan. However. beating Denver at Denver presents a major obstacle to our goal. We have never beaten Denver on their own ice, and once again they are ranked very high nationally. 
There are several factors in our favor, however. One is that our taaaaeam will, for the first time all season, have the services of John Noble. John was forced to sit out our first two series due to a knee injury. So. with the exception of Larry Israelson, we are at full strength. 
Another factor in our favor is that for the first time we will have a more experienced team than Denver. Losses of key personnel to graduation, the pros, and the injured list result in a "relatively young" Denver Team. This could be a very important advantage for us if the game is close, as it is likely to be. We have always played well at Denver, but never well enough to win. In the past we went into the games with a shaky feeling of inferiority. However, with our team's sweep over Michigan and our realization that we are not playing the same "old Denver," we have gained the needed confidence. 
There are only two point games, since we face Denver again December 8--9. But, as I've already suggested, the balance in the league this year may validate that old saying. A sweep would be a great bonus and a tremPndous psychological boost. However, a split is a necessity. 
l • 
' l ~ 
~ 




