~-----~-----------~--~-------~------­
On The Inside 
Democratic primaries ...p.5 Viewpoint --the dome ...p.S. 




serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VI, No. 107 Tuesday, April 11, 1972 

North's losses stall Vietnam drive 
by Fox Butterfield 
1971 New York Times (C) 
Saigon, Tuesday, April--Allied military com­manders said Monday that the North Vietnamese appeared to have suffered a serious setback in their drive into Quangiri Province in the northern part of South Vietnam. 
A count on the battlefield revealed, according the reports from the scene by American officers and newsmen, that the communists lost more than 1,000 ·soldiersand30 tanks in their attacks Sunday west of the city of Quangiri. 
In the wake of those assaults, the only battle reported in the area was a brief enemy attack on a bridge on the northern outskirts of Quangiri. It was reported repulsed by South Vietnamese rangers and United States Naval gunfire. Intensive artillery fire by both sides, however, was said to be continuing. 
bombing intensified 
Exultant government troops displayed two captured north Vietnamese T;54 tanks in the citadel of Hue, Vietnam's ancient imperial capital. 
The American retaliatory bombing campaign against Hanoi intensified today as giant B-52 bombers began hitting North Vietnam for the first time since November, 1967, the U.S. command in Saigon announced 
The command said the B;52 raids were being made "in response to the commmunist invasion across the demilitarized zone." 

seven jets lost 
It also disclosed today that American fighter­bombers had made 225 strikes against North Vietnam during the first three .days of the raids, from last Thursday through Sunday. Two U.S. Navy A;7 jet fighters have been acknowledged lost in the raids over the North with one pilot reported rescued and the other missing. 
Despite the heaviest fighting in Vietnam since the 1-968 Tet offensive and the step-up in the air war, 5,500 additional U.S. troops were withdrawn last week, leaving the total American strength in Vietnam at 90,000. 

South Vietnamese paratroopers on highway 13 effectively stem recent enemy offensives. 
A large South Vietnamese relief column of tanks, howitzers and troops dran from the Mekong Delta crept cautiously forward today trying to relieve the encircled Fifth Division at Anloc, 60 miles north of Saigon, in Binhlong Province. For the first time since the estimated 20,000 North Vietnamese troops trrust South from the Cambodian border into Bihnlong three days ago, there was little reportedfighting. 
major cities safe 
Saboteurs blew up a strategic bridge on Highway 
1. seven miles north of Danang on the central coast yesterday, temporarily stopping supplied heading for the Quangiri front. 
South Vietnam's major cities remained free from terrorist attacks again today. No major North Viennamese assaults were reported in Kontum Province in the central highlands as has been ex­pected by American officials. 
American advisers who toured the sites of Sun­day's intensive North Vietnamese attacks on the government's western flank in Quangiri Province reported that they had counted more than 1,000 bodies in three locations. 
"I was just masses of bodies everywhere," one American officer in Quangiri said, "The N.V.A. <North Vietnamese Army) really got a bloody nose out there." 
The battles took place at Dongha, Hailang, five miles soutliwest of Quangiri City, and at Firebase Pedro, 10 miles southwest of Quangiri. 
The South Vietnamese Commander of Northern Military Region 1, Lt. Gen. Hoang Xuan Lam, said at his headquarters in Danang today that "'this was the big battle, we have defeated them." Lam asserted that the North Vietnamese invasion of Quangiri "has now been stopped." 


U.S. officers confident 
American ofiicers did not make such broad claims, but they said they were confident that the communist thrust across the demilitarized zone could be stopped if South Vietnamese troops con­tinued to fight with the same courage and tenacity that they displayed Sunday. However, North Vietnamese troops of the 3248 Division continued their shelling and probing attacks on Fire Base Bastogne, the key government defensive position guarding the western approaches to Hue. The Saigon command claimed killing 182 North Viet­namese in fighting around Bastogne Sunday, with the loss of nine South Vietnamese killed and 46 wounded. 


Viet Cong attacks decline 
There were also two communist attacks reported Sunday for the first time in coastal Bindinh Province, which had security rating in the country. 
Fifty North Vietnamese and ten government troops were said to have lost their lives. 
Local Vietcong guerrillas launched 15 more assaults on government militia outposts in the Mekong Delta Sunday, though the intensity of their attacks was said to declining. No casualty figures were immediately available. 
continued on page three 


j 

AL Council creates 'problems procedure' 

At a recent meeting of the Arts and Letters College Council (March 15), a student­introduced proposal to establish a "problems procedure" within the college passed by a wiue margin. 
The procedure, according to Dan More, one of the sponsors, of the proposal, is designed to provide an established procedure for students to get direct action on their ideas, complaints, and problems concerning the running of the university, the individual college, and Arts and Letters courses. 
student final appeal 
The procedure will also provide for a final appeal by students who feel they have received a grade they do not deserve, and have exhausted all grievance procedures within a particular department. 
The "problems procedure" will be mediated by students with faculty participation, and final decisions and recommendations will be brought to the Dean's attention. Further details and the procedure in its entirety will appear in the next Scholastic, April 14. 
extend pass-fail 
Also at the meeting, the council passed another student-introduced proposal which calls for an amendment to the pass-fail option "to allow a student to receive a letter grade in a course previously designated pass-fail if the student so requests prior to two weeks before the last class day of the semester." 

exploration of more diverse areas as the pass­fail option was originally intended to do. 
Pres~ntly, only 30 percent of the student body are takmg advantage of the option, and most of these earned good grades, according to Arts and Letters Dean Frederick J. Crosson. 
need University okay 
Other members of the council bellevea the proposal would involve tampering with an ex­perimental program, which should not be tampered with so soon, and would also involve tampering with the professional relationship between student and teacher. 
The motion was passed by hand vote with 14 members in favor, 13 opposed and 6 abstaining. Because all amendments to the option concern the entire university, and not just the college, the proposal will still have to be endorsed by the University Academic Council before it is adopted. 
It will probably be introduced in UAC before the end of the semester. 
Freshman director 
The Arts and Letters Coucil also unanimously 
approved in a voice vote a measure to provide a 
director for the Freshman Seminar Program. 
The approved motion read: 
"The program woUld have a coordinator who 
would also be a member of a department and 
who would, in his capacity as coordinator an­
swer directly to the Dean of the College of 'Arts 
and Letters." 



world briefs 
(c) 1972 New York Times 
Saigon--The North Vietnamese appeared to have suffered a serious setback in their drive into Quangtri Province, allied military commander said after a battlefield count by American officers and newsmen revealed that the Communist f~rces had lost more than 1,000 men and 30 tanks in attacks on Quangtri city. 
Moscow--In ceremonies in Washington, London and Moscow, about 50 nations signed a treaty outlawing biological warfare and requiring states to destroy their stockpiles on the weapons. The treaty marks the first time a modern arms control measure included a provision for the destruction of weatons. 
Nt>w York--Two more men were killed in gangland style shortly before the burial of Joseph Gallo. Police said that the two men had been shot in the head and were found with large sums of money in their pockets. THis, the police said, showed that the motive for the murders was revenge, not robbery. 


on cantpus today 
all day: celebration of self, symposium on women at st. 
mary's.  through  out  smc  
campus.  
12:00  ·  4:00  -signups, discussion  

groups on human sexuality, 100­b, psych bldg and 164 lemans. 
7:00, 9:00, 11:00 movie, celebration at big sur, engineering auditorium. 
7:30 -meeting, flying club, 120 o'shag. 

Buffaloon trial for draft file theft 

by Cliff Wintrode Buffalo, New York-­It's again time for the courts to 
decide where moral imperative belongs in our system of law. 
Tile opportumty occurs as nve people accused by the government of stealing draft files and army intelligence files go on trail here beginning April 17. 
The defendants agree that they did steal the files but they don't agree that they are the "defense." 
They say that in conscience they had to respond to "genocide" in Indochina, American business "exploitation" of the Third World, and "crimes of exploitation"of people in this country. 
The Buffalo add that their response to these "crimes" needs no defense but that the trial is an "invitation" to the government to defend its foreign and domestic policies. 
And they insist that the court, if it is concerned about justice, must consider these policies and ask not whether individual conscience instead of the law should be the guide for one's conduct. 
I 
I The government is expected to say that no one has the right to break the law for any reason and that the court's only concern is 
whether the defendants did violate the law.~ Arrested inside the old Buffalo 
federal building last August 21 by'r FBI agents were Maureen Con­I sidine, a former SMCstudentChuck 
, 
Darst, a former ND student, Jeremiah Horrigan. Jim Martin, and Ann Masters. The building housed the draft office and the office of army intelligence. 
Indictments charging The Buffalo with conspiracy, theft of government property, and burglary were returned by a Rochester, New York federal grand jury on September 3oth. 
The defendants have asked to be allowed the full privileges of self­defense so they may speak to the jury members. 
"We want to speak to the jury as people, on a person to person level, because that's what we are about," says Considine. "I hope that by the end of the trial, the jury will have a fair idea who I am and who the others are." 
U.S. District Court Judge John 
Curtin has told the defendants that ~ each may make opening and, closing statements but that he will r wait until the trial begins to rule on 
i 
individual cross~xamination. 
The five say that Curtin has indicated a "willingness" to permit them wide leeway in court 
to discuss their political and moral concerns.
~ 
munity aware of the action and the trial. Strait magazine at Buffalo College featured a seven page interview with The Buffalo. 
low cost dependable jet flights to EUROPE. Choose from more than 40 flights. 
NO AGE LIMIT. Complete travel information. Call 259-971 0, evenings 5-1 1. 
Friends of the Buffalo Five 
However, The Buffalo remain worried that Curtin despite his personal openness to those con­cerns, will "tie his human hands with his judge's robes." 
People have become "com­plicit" in America's "crimes" The ~uffalo will tell the court, by ac­tmg according to role instead of conscience. 
They will cite the judiciary's "refusal" to rule on the War's legality, the army's "refusal" to accept responsibility for the War's direction, and Congress's "refusal" to assert authority over the President. 
"The situation isn't getting any better, precisely because people are still saying that I am just doing my job and evading their moal responsibility," adds Darst. 
If this judgment is accepted as correct by the people in the courtroom, the The Buffalo will consider their trial to have been valuable. 
The vast majority of Buffalo residents are unaware that the trial will soon be happening. 
The two major newspapers here have not done one feature article on The Buffalo. They have not appeared on television since the end of October. 
The college media has made the extremely large student com-
The Buffalo Defense Committee is hopeful that many people from the Buffalo community will come to the trial related activities scheduled nightly during the ex­pected week trial. 
But the focus will be in the courtroom where five peoplf', who violated the law, will say that morally they had no choice but to do their action. 
And it is certain that some people present will provide future opportunities for the courts to place moal imperative in our judicial system. 
-----------~ 
-----------~-----------.._ 
the observer Tuesday, Aoril 11, 1972
2 


''Hello, Brutus? I wonJt be back tn toUJn for the senate meettng today.JJ 
When yoo're delayed, let the folks at home know with a long 
distance call. Who knows ... the call could change the course 
of your life. It costs so little when you dial direct. For example, 
after 5:00p.m. a person-to-person call to Rome, Ga. costs 
about $2.00 ... and you can dial the same 
carr direct for less than $1.00. 
liiCBll-lfiUIY 

Low Priced! letter Ideo• Make letter Can. 
72 KACS ·13 

The Little Sexy European Car! MERCURY 

CAPRI 
7211Aa·l4 ­Capri 2-dr. Sport Coupe 


COME SEE METRO AND ASK ABOUT OUR SPECIAL PURCHASE PLAN FOR COLLEGE GRADUATES 



Coun•-ries agree to ban biological weapons 

oy Hedrick Smith 
(c) 1!172 New York Times 
Moscow, April 10--More than 70 nations, including the United States, the Soviet Union and Britain, signed a convention today outlawing biological weapons and, for the first time under a modern arms-control measure, requiring states to destroy their stocks of such weapons. 
The signing ceremonies took place in Moscow, Washington and London. The treaty will go into force as soon as 22 nations, in­cluding the three major nuclear powers, have deposited in­struments of ratification. France and China. the other nuclear powers, were not among the signatories. 
President Nixon, in Washington, and Soviet President, Nikolai V. Pidgorny, here in Moscow, took the occasion to emphasize their hopes of achieving a breakthrough agreement to limit strategic nuclear arms. 
In the ceremony at the foreign ministry, where 47 states signed the convention, Pidgorny declared 

E 
OBSERVER 
Tuesday, April 11, 1972 Page 3 
Nixon veils criticisDl of Soviet arn1s aid to North Vietnan1ese 
bv Bernard Gwertzman 
Washington: April 10--In an unmistakable reference to the Soviet Union's military aid to the marauding North Vietnamese forces, President Nixon said today that the big powers had a special responsibility to discourage others from mounting attacks on neighbors. 
Although no nation was mentioned by name, Nixon's remarks were seen as part of the Ad­ministration's effort to focus attention on the Soviet Union's large-scale military aid program, which has provided Hanoi with the tanks, ar­tillery, and missiles for the current offensive against South Vietnam. 
He said every "Great Power" must follow the 
principle that it should not encourage, "directly 
or indirectly, any other nation to use force or 
armed aggression against its neighbors." 
{ In a news conference last Friday, Secretary of Defense Melvin R. Laird had criticized the Russians for placing "no restraints" on Hanoi's use of Soviet equipment outside of North Viet­nam. The State Department had said earlier that the 10-day-old attack could not have been launched without soviet equipment. JNixon who previously had not spoken, even indirectly, about the offensive, couched his comments today in soft, diplomatic language that could not offend the Russians publicly or jeopardize plans for his Moscow trip next month. He spoke at ceremonies at the State Depart­ment marking the signing of a United Nations convention that bars the development and production of Biological and toxin weapons and calls for the destructionn of existing stocks of such weapons. Similar ceremonies were held in Moscow and London. Secretary of State William P. Rogers signed for the United States. at ceremonies here, along with the British Ambassador, the Earl of Cromer, Soviet Ambassador Anatoly F. Dobrynin, and some 70 other ambassadors. The convention goes into effect when ratified by 22 countries. • Despite Nixon's veiled expression of concern about Soviet aid to the North Vietnamese the atmosphere at the ceremonies was friendly. Nixon shook the hand of Dobrynin quite warmly before signing began, and his remarks were made without any rancor. Dobrynin, in his brief speech, praised the convention and said Nixon's 
I 
presence at the ceremonies was a good omen for future progress in other disarmament efforts now under way. 
At about the same time these ceremonies were taking place, Laird was asserting at the Pen· tagon that additional American air and naval forces would be sent to Southeast· Asia to show 
"the determination"  of  the  United  States  of  
counter the North Vietnamt offensive.  
The Secretary said that the withdrawal  of  

American troops from South Vietnam continues on schedule. The Defense Department said there are now about 90,000 American ground forces in Vieftlam and the 69,000 target level set for May 1 should -be reached. 
Laird, reflecting the Administration's fairly optimistiC appraisal of the latest battlefield situation, said that Saigon's forces were per­forming well and had "destroyed over one hundred of North Vietnam's tanks," in Quangtri Province alone. He spoke to a women's group. 
Nixon, in hailing the prohibition of germ­warfare weapons, said that the treaty will allow the world's scientists to "devote their entire work toward the end of disease." 
But he •said that the treaty was only a "means to an end" --an end to the threat of war. 
"Insofar as that goal is concerned, we begin with one proposition, and that is, that each nation of the world must renounce the use of force, the use of aggression against other nations," he said. 
"We must also recognize another proposition," he continued, "and that is, that a great responsibility particularly rests upon the great powers, that every great power must follow the principle that it should not encourage directly, or indirectly, any other nation to use force or armed aggression against its neighbors." 
Administration officials, when asked later whether Nixon was directing his remarks specifically to the situation in Vietnam, said they were "not unrelated" to Vietnam, but stressed that they also had wider application. 
The Administration has previously chided Moscow for seeking to take advantage of tense situations such as the recent was between India and Pakistan, in which Moscow backed the In­dians. Nixon has stated that he hopes to discuss with Soviet officials in Moscow the possibility of an agreement on joint restraint by the two largest nuclear powers to avoid conflicts by other countries. 
that the ban on bacteriological 
weapons "to a certam degree 
opens up favorable new prospects" 
for curbing the arms race in other 
areas. 
"By limiting the sphere of the arms race," he said, "this agreement can also serve as a good example for solving other pressing problems of disar­
mament." 
This was read as a suggestion that the Nixon administration would be well advised to strike even a limited agreement with the Soviet Union in the strategic-arms 
talks in Helsinki, now in the final phase before Nixon's visit to Moscow on May 22. 
A parallel exists between the nuclear-arms negotiations and the lengthy talks that produced the draft agreement to prohibit biological weapons last fall. Initially, Moscow also wanted to outlaw chemical weapons, but when Washington raised ob­jections, the two sides eventually agreed to concentrate on the bacteriological issue. 
In the strategic-arms talks, Moscow has pressed for limits on defensive missile systems and Washington for limits on offensive missiles. Podgorny's comments could thus be read as urging the United States to follow the Soviet example and accept partial limitations on offensive weapons-­possibly leaving out such an im­portant field as submarine­launched missiles--rather than lose a crucial opportunity to achieve some agreement. 
"Our country," the Soviet President asserted in a passage directed to Washington, "ex­presses its firm determination to continue its efforts toward limiting the arms race, including strategic arms. We call upon the states of the world, and primarily those possessing the largest war ar­senals, to take practical steps without delay leading to the solution of the disarmament problem." 
News of the agreement, signed 
With a speed of 650 miles an hour, they have always heen considered vulnerable f face;to;air missiles ar: therefore kept away fr.;H• ~· ·-"" where the North Vietnamese concentrated their missile sites. 
The decision to send them against North Vietnam now is taken here to indicate the seriousness with which the Nixon administration regards the current communist offensive. 
The U.S. command has refused to disclose the targets hit Ly the B;52 raids over North Vietnam. The command said that the in­formation would be made available only when the "limited duration strikes are com_pleted." 
Local Vietcong guerrillas launched 15 more assaults on government militia outposts in the by foreign minister Andrei A. Gromyko, the United States Ambassador, Jacob D. Beam, and the British Ambassador, Sir John Killick, among others, was given prominent display on the front page of the government newspaper, Izvestia. Several dispatches on inside pages criticized the United States for new air attacks on North Vietnam. 
In a step parallel to the news ot the treaty, also evidently intended to put the Soviet people in the proper mood for President Nixon's visit, the poet Yevgeny Yev­tushenko warmly recalled the jubilant meeting of Soviet and American troops on the Elbe river after the defeat of Nazi Germanyin May, 1945. 
"I like America" was the repe~ted ~efrain of a new poem, published m the April issue of the Youth Magazine Yunost, out today. 
It drew lightly on his recent successful poetry reading trip to the United States, though it made no reference to his 70-minute private meeting with the President. 
The 15-article convention binds countries, "not to develop, produce, stockpile or otherwise adquire or retain" microbiological or other biological agents or toxins except for peaceful purposes. The same commitments apply to all weapons and related equipment designed to make possible the use of biological ag:ents i? warfar~. 
The convenuon a1so reqmres each country "to destroy or to divert to peaceful purposes, as soon as possible but not later than nine months" after the treaty comes into force, all biological agents and their means of delivery. It also commits the signatory powers to continue negotiations for a similar ban on chemical weapons. 
The convention does not contain a provision specifically banning the use of biological weapons. This was considered unnecessary because their use as well as that of poison gases is outlawed in the 1925 Geneva protocol. 

North Vietna.m stalls 

American B-52 bombers are flying missions over North Vietnam for the first time since 1967. 
continued from page one 1\1 Delta Sunday, though the inten::.,t:· of their attacks ' ·as said 
to d .\io casuJ.lty figures WLrt: HlliJ. ately available. 
In the air war, about 530 American fighter-bombers are believed to be in the Indochina theatre--220 Air Force jets in South Vietnam and Thailand, 280 Navy fighters on four aircraft carriers in the South China Sea, and 30 marine fighters, which arrived at Danang this week from Thailand. About 70 B;52's also estimated at Utapao in Thailand and on Guam. 
The eight-engined B;52's, which can carry up to 30 tons of bombs each, were used in 1966 and 1967 to bomb North Vietnam but only in the area around the northern half of the D.M.Z. and along the passesleading into Laos. 

the observer
4 
SMC 'Celebration of Sell' continues today 
by "Redman" Tyrell on the east quad of the SMC dining 
The "Women at St. Mary's -A hall. The picnic festivities will Celebration of Self" festival, a include live music, guerilla three day program sponsored theater, a bicycle parade, jointly by the Human Relations "celebration" tee shirts and Commission of St. Mary's Student graffiti sheets. Government and SMC campus The music is to be provided by ministry, w1TI begin today with an such campus folk artists as John activity filled picnic. Bachman, Tom Stella, Mary Beth 
The picnic, starting at 10:45 and Mulcahy and Carol Lacey, a for­continuing until 2 pm, will be held mer SMC student, who has been 
I.T.T. President 
performing  recently  in  Chicago  
area coffeehouses.  
The  guerilla  theater  will  be  

composed of SMC students and possibly a few Notre Dame students. They will be performing in the crowd. Ms. Ann Dunn, one of the coordinators for the festival, said it is attempting to stimulate thought on certain contemporary issues. 
testifies 
and Joyce Marib. The topic ofThe 'Celebration" Tee shirts are discussion will be : "The Femalein limited supply, Ann Dunn said, Identity and Society's Values."

but more who desire the insignia can have it reproduced on tee 
At 3:30 Ann and John Smith, both studens here, will be lecturing on

shirts by silk screen. Ms. Dunn announced that 
"Women, Abortion and the Law," in Stapleton.

Hildegard Bomer will not lecture 
at 2:30 in Stapleton Lounge, but Another female Notre Dame will be replaced by a panel student will be speaking at 7:30 discussion group, consisting of Ms. when Marsha Pierce delivers a Ann Hauerwas, Sr. Elena Malits talk on "Women in Law" in 
Stapleton Lounge. 

on file burning 
by Fred P. Grahan 
<c> 1972 New York Times News St•rvice 
Washington, April 10--The head of the International Telephone and Telegraph Corporations' Washington office testified today that he ordered the shredding of office files after columist Jack Anderson obtained a controversial 
I.T.T. memorandum because "there might be a lot of others in there like that." 
William R. Merriam, a Vice President of I.T.T., explained to the Senate Judiciary Committee that he decided it was "time to clean house" after Anderson ob­tained a memorandum pur­portedly written by Mrs. Dita D. Beard. 
Merriam's testimony came on a day in which he and Rep. Bob Wilson, R-Calif., gave accounts that contradicted statements made by each other and testimony by prior witnesses. 
"Somebody's not telling the truth-take your pick," concluded Sen. Quentin N. Burdick, D-N.D., summing up the day's testimony. 
The publication of the memorandum, which has touched off a six-seek investigation, linked 
I.T.T.'s "noble commitment" of up to $400,000 to underwrite the expenses of the 1972 Republican National Convention at San Diego with the Justice Department's willingness to to settle three an­titrust cases against I.T.T. 
Merriam said he ordered the 
destruction of any documents that 
might be embarrassing to the 
company of its officials. But he 
said he could not remember if he 
had ever received the one 
published by Anderson because so 
many memorandums cross his 
desk. 
"Not alleging the kind of in­
formation that was contained in 
the Anderson-Beard memoran­
dum, I trust?" asked Sen. John V. 
Tunney, D-Calif. 
"Well, you'd be surprised," 
replied Merriam. 
Later, Sen. Edward J. Gurney, R-Fla., drew from Merriam the assurance that he did not mean that the I.T.T. files bulged with other documents as politically explosive as the Beard-Anderson one. but only that information about foreign operations and in­ternal financial data could be damaging if disclosed. 
During a day in which 
ll<>mocratic Senators expressed 
mcredulity over aspects of both 
w1tnesses' testimony, the following 
statements were made: 
--Wilson, who represents most of 
tne San Diego area, explained that 
Mrs. Beard told him in late 
authenticity of the memorandum public relations man whom Mrs. 
have a sentimental attachment for her despite some of her ec­centricities." He denied that he was the one who leaked the document ot Anderson, but he conceded that it was written by someone inside the company. 
Merriam, a middle-aged man with a prominent double chin and a flustered manner, agreed at one point with the Senators­bemusement over this testimony. "Everything I say I get in worse," he said. 

February that she was not the author of the memorandum published by Anderson. Asked why he did not mention this when he gave three news interviews about the I.T.T. case in early March, he said, "I was never asked. "The first time the 
--Merriam said that out of fear of Mrs. Beard's wrath, he falsely said that he had received an inquiry from the White House about the details of I.T.T.'s San Diego commitment. He said the truth was that he dealt with the White House through Jack Gleason, a 

Pound for Pound, 
Dollar for Dollar, Americas Best Equipped Luxury 
Sport Car! 

was publicly challenged was when 
I.T.T. and Mrs. Beard branded it a forgery in late March. 
-Wilson testified that Harold S. Geneen, the President of I.T.T. made a "personal commitment" to t!Onvention' s expenses in San Diego. He said this does not contradict Geneen's testimony that his commitment was only 200,000, because Wilson was certain he could raise enough money from San Diego busi­nessmen so that thefull $400,000 would not be needed. He said so much has been raised that only about $500,000 willbeneeded f!"om I.T.T. 
-Wilson said, "To my knowledge there is absolutely no connection between the personal guarantee of underwriting made to me and a subsequent out of court settlement of various law suits against I.T .T." 
--Meriam conceded that he probably told Wilson on Feb. 28 that he had received from Mrs. Beard the memorandum that fell into Anderson's hands. But he said he has since learned that he could not have received the memo because he did not go to the office on June 25, the date the memorandum bore. 
-Wilson testified that Harold S. Geneen, the President of I.T.T. made a "personal commitment" to guarantee up to $400,000 of the convention's expenses in San Diego. He said this does not contradict Geneen's testimony that his commitment was only $200,000, because Wilson was Beard dislikes. 
After these comments by Merriam, Sen. Sam J.Ervin Jr., D­N.C., demanded: "How I can put credence in your testimony?" before the committee. Merriam insisted he was not deceiving the committee. 
Merriam denied Mrs. Beard's testimony, given last month from a Denver hospital room where she was a heart patient, that he had asked her to write the memorandum and that he men­tioned a White House inquiry about a possible $600,000 I.T.T. pledge to the Nixon Campaign. He also denied her subsequent statement in a television interview that he instructed her to discuss I.T.T.'s hopes for an antitrust settlement with former Attorney General John N. Mitchell at a Kentucky Derby party last May. 
Asked about statements by Wilson that he <Marriam) hated Mrs. Beard and leaked the memorandum to Anderson to "get" her, Merriam insisted: "I 
Celebratewith: 
JOANBAEZ 


certain he could raise enough money from San Diego 
CROSBY, STILLS, MASH &YOUNG 
businessmen so that the full $400,000 would not be needed. He 
JOMI MITCHELL 
said so much has been raised that only about $500,000 will be needed 
JOHN SEBASTIAN 
And Introducing -Wilson said, "To my knowledge 
from I.T.T. 
DOROTHY MORRISON
there is absolutely no connection between the personal guarantee of 
Every'!ne did it••• for the sheer love of it.
underwriting made to me and a subsequent out of court settlement of various law suits against I.T.T." 
--Meriam conceded that he probably told Wilson on Feb. 28 that he had received from Mrs. Beard the memorandum that fell into Anderson's hands. But he said he has since learned that he could 
:ltl 
:!_--~· 

·-·=-----'~,.m!~~not have received the memo because he did not go to the office on June 25, the date the memorandum bore. 
/~'·
JIM HIBSCHMAN 


•••it happened one weekend bythe sea.
PONTIAC TONIGHT ONLY! ... ENGINE.ERfNGAUO.
301 Lincolnway E. Mishawaka 
255.4771 
A Time to Celebrate SELF, your SELF Dance to the Music 
Soulful Music of the Impacts 
Wednesday April 12, SMC, 9:00-12:00 tuition $.50 SMC -ND ID REQUIRED 
Tuesday, April 11, 1972 
the observer 
5 

Ed Ellis insight
A look at the Democratic primaries 
After the first four Dmocratic' Presidential primaries, the race for "Who Can Beat Nixon," as the game goes, appears to have en­tered a new phase. It will be a more wide open phase, since there is no frontrunner, and yet in many ways it will be a more close, restricted period, since most of the fringe candidates appear to be ready to follow the lead of New York Mayor John V. Lindsay, in effect if not in fact. 
For an explanation of events so far, and for perhaps a few clues to the events of the next weeks, let us examine the first four primaries and their meaning for the dozen or so men and women seeking the role of standard-bearer against an incumbent Republican. 
First, New Hampshire. This traditional kickoff state gave its Eastern Maine Senator Edmund Muskie, then front­runner, 48 per cent of the vote to George McGovern's 35 per cent. The results were largely in­conclusive, except perhaps for their elimination of Los Angeles Mayor Sam Yorty had a serious threat. Yorty hd hoped to ride a Loeb-inspired Manchester Guardian endorsement to a 20 per cent showing. He fell about 15 per 
cent short. 
Muskie picked up most of the convention delegates, but McGovern's strong showing in Muskie's aforementioned backyard revented the Maine Senator from claiming the resounding victory he needed. 
Florida was the first on a list of 
"key" primaries, a list that in­
cludes Wisconsin already and will 
no doubt include Pennsylvania, 
Michigan, Ohio, and California 
before the Miami cvention arrives. 
University acquires rare French books 

David E. Sparks, left, director of libraries at the University of Notre Dame. and Prof. A.L. Gabriel, director of the University's Mediaeval Institute, examine one book from a 15,000-volume private library recently purchased by the University. 
Prof. Gabriel negotiated the purchase of the library of Canon Jarry, a retired professor of. mediaeval studies at the Catholic University of Paris, and supervised the shipment of 287 crates from Paris to South Bend. The library contains particularly rich material on 17th century religious movements and also reflects Canon Jarry's interest in the mediaeval history of French provinces and cities. 
Every volume more than 100 years old--about half the library--had to be cleared for export by the French National Library, and Prof. Gariel noted that a great number of the 17th Century books were not in any United States collection. Stored temporarily in an unused campus gymnasium. the books are now being uncrated and moved into the MPmorial Librarv collection. 
mock convention news 
delegation meetings tuesday 7:00---·massachusetts, and new jersey, 127 nieuwland 7:00--indiana. fiesta lounge wednesday 10:00--minnesota, alumni hall lounge 
BEST BANDS IN TOWN 
-Two Bands a night -Dancing 6 nights a week 

(closed Monday.) -No cover on Tues., Wed., Thurs. -Open till 2 a.m. 
"One stop entertainment center" 
Cocktail Lounge Bowling Billiards 
S/.u{R's JVite C/ut 
2802 SOUTH 11th ROAD NILES, MICHIGAN 49120 
616/683-4350 
Conservative Senator Henry Jackson, from Washington, needed a good showing from a con­servative state in order to stay in the race. The all-time "wild card," Alabama Governor George Wallace, was in the deck, too, and Muskie and Minnesota Senator Hubert H. Humphrey traded punches for the first time since they ran together four years ago. John Lindsay competed with the McGovern camp for liberal votes in Florida, and Congresswoman Shirley Chisholm from New York began iring away. Yorty was entered, as was powerful House Ways and Means committee chairman Wilbur Mills from Arkansas. Former Minnesota Senator Gene McCarthy was en­tered also. 
ln Florida, the busing issue, having smoldered for a year or two, was fanned ferociously by Wallace and Jackson, and it ex­ploded into the only bona fide issue of the campaign so far. It may even be the biggest issue of the campaign in the fall. 
In short, the people just don't want their kids bussed, and they 

Citroen 
Front wheel drive, power <'!ssisted rack & p1n1on steering, hydropneumatic suspension for constant level ride, aerodynamic design and elegant interiors. What more can you ask for? 
sed Specials Of T eek 
67 FIAT ABARTH Red paint . Mag Wheels 71 850 SPIDER A Choice of two . Low mileage 70 124 FIAT SPORT COUPE Real sharp -An excellent buy 70 OPEL GT Like new 71 FIAT 128 2 Dr. sedan 4,000 act. miles "The Car of the Year" 
OllliJII 8 
auto/sport 
Citroen 

52148 U.S. 31 N. 
South Bend 
Phone 272-2854 

"sent 'em a message" by giving 
George  Wallace  a  42  per  cent  
score.  Humphrey  ran  a  distant  
second  with  18  per  cent  and  

Jackson, the other busing can­didate, ran third with 13 per cent. Muskie,· Lindsay, and MGovern were back in the pack, and some party leaders were taling seriously of tiniting·temporarily in a "stop­Wallace" effort, perhaps in West Virginia or Tennessee. 
Wallace won 75 of 81 convention seats, with Humphrey getting the other six. 
The Illinois primary was a simple duel between Muskie and McCarthy, and Muskie, or course, won easily, with 63 per cent of the popular vote. McGovern write-in's were second, getting the South Dakota Senator a handful of delegates. Since there was Iitle or no opposition, Muskie's victory did not give him the great boost he needed on the way to a crowded Wisconsin contest. In addition, an uncommitted Mayor Richard J. 
Daley from Chicago will still lead his delegation into Miami, barring major political upheavals in Illinois. 
Going to Wiconsin, then Muskie was still the frontrunner, Hum­phrey had not yet shown significant strength, McGovern and Lindsay were still competing for the left wing, Jackson was stuck with poor voter-recognition and an even poorer stage presentation, and Wallace was ruffling more than a few Democratic feathers, although not yet taken totally seriously. 
The only major issue that had emerged before the Wisconsin primary was busing, and only Wallace and Jackson took stands on it. Before Wisconsin, Muskie was still the frontrunner, but Humphrey, McGovern, and even Lindsay and Jackson were given a shot at victQry in the convention. 
Thursday: Wisconsin and its lesson. 


IN PERSON! April 14 THE FABULOUS 
/1//l//1' 
MAGICIANS OF BASKETBALL 1111 
Friday, April 14 8:00pm 
Athletic and Convocation Center 
N D and SMC Discounts 
Ticket prices 

:m@: ! :.· ,, 
$4.50·-No discount $3.50·· Purchase for $2.50 $2.50-· Purchase for $1.50 
Must present I D Card 
for discount at ACC 


i].,l.,'!··'..'il'..'i....'.'· L;t..,l.,i ,:
-= ~ .._. ~~~nl 
-~ ======================:===:: ==-=;=;==i;=;=;=~;=~;=:=:=;=;;;;;=;;;=~;~=~;=~;:;;;:;;;;;:;:;:;:;r-t::: ===······ =·=···====~!~::=~========·=·= :::!:::l:f:=:t:!:t::~!::::~::::::!t:=:=:=:s::::: ::::::::::::::::::=:~::::::::::}::====:=:=::t:::::: ­
SlfJ\ERI'S 

Happy Hour 7 to 1 0 pm 64% pitcher Bud. $1.32 
-PIZZA-
Italian sandwiches Spaghetti & Sea foods 

LIQUOR & COLD CARRY OUT Free use of dining room for club meetings, etc. 410 N. Hill 
Interested in bringing speakers to campus? Apply for Academic Commissioner 
Controlling or Financial Problems? Apply for Business Manager Student Union 2-4 pm 7757 4th floor LaFortune 
1 
1 
~ 
~
,
, 
, ~ 
1 
~ 
,
,
, 
r 
~ 
f 
r 
r 
r 
~ 
' 
~ 
~ 
r r 
[ 
~ 
r 
f 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
! r 
r r r 
r r 
t 
THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
John Abowd  Jim Jendryk  
News: 283-1715  Editor-in-chief  Business Manager  
EditoriaI: 283-8661 Business: 283-7471  Don Ruane Executive Editor  Bill Bauerle Advertising Manager  

Editorials printed in The Observer reflect the opinion of the writer, on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial comment. 
Tuesday, April 11, 1972 
Celebration 
The Celebration of Self can be the beginning for St. Mary's. It can be a start for the school to emerge from the con­fusion and disappointment of the can­celled unification, and for the women to assert themselves as women and more 
. ' 
Importantly, as people. And, it can be a chance for St. Mary's to become a community--or administrators, faculty, and students. 
"Community" is perhaps the most abused word around here. It is used as a promise, and has been largely unfulfilled, at Notre Dame and St. Mary's. "Non­community," a lack of trust and in­dividual development is the rule. But the potential to care has not been destroyed, the hope that people can live in concert remains with many. It has to be tapped. 
St. Mary's students have taken the first step asserting their right to community, and their ability to live in it. The "Celebration" is a chance to sit down, relax, communicate, and find out what's been hidden for so long. Additionally, it is a challenge to women to determine their roles in society, without the limitations imposed by male-oriented precon­ceptions. 
Aspects of Liberation 
Women have traditionally been regarded as only limited participants in society, an idea that has been a drag on human progress. Women have been defined in stereotypes--the homemaker and little wife--and men have had equally absurd sex roles that they have been expected to uphold--the provider and protector. The advent of Women's Liberation, with the recognition the 
limitations imposed on people by their sex are without factual basis, has created an awareness that the prescribed roles are absurd, and that tradition is not a valid excuse for their perpetuation. 
The Celebration includes sessions that can explode socially-assigned sex roles. Both sexes gain from such a redefinition because latent talents can be developed without the stigma usually attached to engaging in activity reserved for the opposite sex. Latent and stifled emotions can be expressed. These are standard arguments for the "liberation" of both sexes. What many people fail to realize is that few if any of the potential benefits of these arguments have as yet been realized. 
History has rarely given either men or women the chance to operate outside traditional sex roles. But the social pressure of the Women's Liberation movement not only invites us to move out of this historical mold but effectively prevents any retrenching. 
Come alive ... 
The challenge of the Celebration is not 
limited to the few organizers, or the 
students of St. Mary's College. The faculty 
and administration of St. Mary's, the 
people of Notre Dame share in the benfits 
accruing from a realization of individuals 
acting in community. In all fairness, 
everyone must also share the price. 
Willingness to learn, to question 
assumptions, to become open to others is 
the investment we must all make in 
redefining both the male and female 
roles. 

--Jim McDermott 
John Abowd 

"lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllfllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 
THE OBSERVER. 
STAFF: 
Night Editor: .. Anthony Abowd Ass't Night Editors: Art Esposito, george lund Layout: Nic Catrambone Mike Dent Headlines: Chris Sullivan Early Shift: John Abowd Day Editor: Pat Tyrell Headliner: Marty Miller Pictureman: Bob Hughes 
Sports Night Editor: .. VIc Dorr Controllers of the Night: rick smith and jill hampe Typists: Dianne Chermside, Dan Rock, Pat Kenney, Debbie Gras Managing Editor: Joe Abell News Editor: Jerry Lutkus Features Editor: Rod Braye SMC Editor: Maria Gallagher Editorial Page Editor: Jim 
McDermott Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson 
.lllllllllllnlllllllllllllll11111111111 II IIIII III11111111111111111111 Ill lllllllllllllllllllllllllllrlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
a chance that we can start... 


View from the crosslakes 1111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
NO-The place for real men 
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 Joseph Abell 
The Notre Dame Man-a nifty phrase invented by some unknown slogan-writer way back when to promote du Lac for unsuspecting high school seniors. It must have meant a lot to a lot of people 'cause it's sure been exploited since them. The image of Notre Dame has grown around its image of the Notre Dame Man--a very masculine image, one full of the discipline of a tough academic world and heavily influenced by the rough­and-ready world of football. To be a Notre Dame graduate was to be a real man! 
But is that the best attitude to have now? Obviously, attitudes in society change with developing technology and new generations, and as of late, the image of "the real man" has been enlarged to encompass the idea that each is quite unique and actually has some unique feelings. The "complete" man is one of many ideas and special nuances-his attitude are his own and he nowjeels a great need to express them. 
Don't get me wrong--men have always wanted to express their ideas and attitudes. But society, sometimes deliberately and sometimes inadvertantly, has prevented him from not only expressing them, but also from even wanting to express them. It would not fit the image of a "real man." 
But now, society is becoming more lax in its unwritten social laws. It is a very human thing to see a man openly cry, to see a man openly express his love in various ways, to devote much of his life in open pursuit of activities that formerly would have labeled him as a social outcast because they weren't entirely masculine. 
And then there_ is Notre Dame: stalwart defender of the masculine spirit, bastion of the manly image. The Notre Dame football team is still known as one of the toughest around. The athletic staffs of Notre Dame are some of the finest around; equipment expenses are no matter. The cliche-phrase "Notre Dame Man" is still prevelent on all advertising posters, and the national image of emotionless, strong, manly bodies striding around the campus of Our Lady persists. 
Not true, you say? Perhaps not to that extreme,but just look around to see examples of these traits. 
"Whatcha doin' tonight, Jack?" "Well I thought I'd go over to the Rock and work out." "But you've done that for the last three nights!" "Yeah, well, gotta get in shape; big section b-ball game next week, y'know." 
Exaggerated? Not a bit. 
Read the Notre Dame publications. The annual Football Review isue of the Scholastic this year included an article by Mike Mooney whose main thesis is that sometimes there are other, more important things to do on a Saturday afternoon than watch football. Perhaps there are; that's not my argument. But the response he received about that article was overwhelming. Blasted by students and alumni alike, for not showing the "proper Notre Dame spirit," he was called a number of abusive name for his opinions, ranging from "sick" to "perverted queer." This is society's new way of accepting a man, free to express his own ideas and feelings? Hardly. 
Try another eample. Watch your compatriots. A while back the Ob­Sl'l'\"l'r ran letters from students concerning the situation of gay liberation. In the letters, they expressed their regret that gays are unable to express themselves openly, even though he estimated that a good chunk of Notre Dame's population is gay. Admittedly, this is a subject that even the rest of the world is slow to accept and discuss openly. But the students expressing their thoughts were expressing them in a serious, straightforward manner. They were expressing a genuine, human sympathy for an oppressed minority. And what did they get for their efforts? Ridicule. I watched people reading the letters in the dining hall, and nearly all responses were of ridicule for "the queer homos," and relief that "we're not perverts." It was sickening, but I guess that's what comes of a university of of "real men." 
But Notre Dame is improving. A follow-up letter in the Scholastic admits that Mooney's opinion though opposed by many, is one to be respected. 
Follow-up letters in the Observer showed much sympathy with the problems of the gay. A beginning has been made. But will Notre Dame build on these beginnings? Only time, a great deal of it, knows that answer to that. In the meantime, then, I guess we'll all have to re-dan our poker-stiff faces, our Converse sneakers and face the world like men . And that's a damn shame. 
; 

participatory democracy 
rick smith 
I continue to believe that this world has no 
ultimate meaning. But I know that something in it has meaning and that is man, because he is the only creature to insist on having one. This world has at least the truth of man and our task is to provide its justifications 
against fate itself.  And  it  has  no  
justification but man  ...  
---Albert Camus  

A few years ago, it seems like more than a lifetime to me, there was a professor teaching here under the auspices of the non­violence program. Those were what you might call the fragile years (I couldn't call them naive), before this numbness seeming loss of nerve set in. 
This Professor's name was Charlie McCarthy. And some of the things he said and did were, in this liberal arts haven, anethema, he spoke alien words within this plastic tower. Tried perhaps to convey in 
w~a~~oo~~~~~~ 
elsewhere there existed a level of suffering quite beyond anything most of us had ever dreamed of. And this suffering, we were told, was not only intolerable. It could not easily be consigned to the simple concept of fate. We could, we had to do something 
aboutit. Finally ,McCarthy _pointed out time office. 
telephone voting. Each person in the state would use a telephone to vote on each major issue during a particular span. There would be an unchanging numbfor a yes vote and an unchanging number for a no vote with the caller's social security and private voter registration number also recorded. The people would decide directly whether they want to live under a proposed law, whether they want to pay for a proposed law. 
The purpose of participatory democracy is to give the people a practical and effective means for rational non-violent change by consensus. As Senator, Mr. McCarthy guarantees that he will vote on major issues that reach the Senate floor according to the will of the majority of the electorate, as directly expressed on these issues. 
Tuesday, April 11, 1972 the observer 
7 

~g~~~p~~~~~~~---------------------------------­
democracy is to remove the government from the control of the wealthy, the seekers of power over people. Its greater purpose is to remove the effects of the "indifference on conscience" of a Congress indebted to the wealthy for being in office and remaining in 
and again our failure not only to recognize this suffering, but also to take it upon our­selves -I believe he used the word 'responsibility' -implying that we, as human beings, were bound to respond to another's suffering. Even in far away Southeast Asia, or far away West Washington Street, South Bend, Indiana. 
So the whole point of this piece is not to idly reminisce about the glorious past or anything. Because Mr. McCarthy is now 
Probably the biggest objection yet to be raised against the participatory democracy concept goes along what might be called '1eo-platonic lines. There is a serious tuestion over whether even a bare majority 1f voters would use the telephone and if they didn't then the whole concept would beef­fectively dead. This is a basic objection, and possibly the only answer I could offer is that the idea deserves a trial. It certainly has not been tried yet. And if it should not 
living in Boston and he is running as an· in-succeed, then I would suggest that the whole dependent candidate for the US Senate. His philosophy upon which this country exists platform represents an attempt to put into needs a serious re-examination. concrete form many of the ideas he talks If you would care to help Mr. McCarthy, about. or just find out more about his ideas, he will 
He talks about beginning participatory be here this Thursday and Friday. He is democracy, about giving the government tentatively scheduled to speak at eight back to the people. About voting yourself a o'clock in LaFortune. Ao all I can say. I direct voice in your government. He talks guess, is that I hoJl.e )'OU en-toyed reading about the link between democracy and this and that you will get a chance to talk agape. Something maybe to think about. with Mr. McCarthy and even help him if you 
The method he proposes to use is want. Thank you. 
Senior Art 

Student Exhibition: Conglomerate '72 
Includes all graduating art majors and graduate students receiving degrees. Paintings, sculpture, graphics, photography, ceramics, and pastels will be shown. Opening is at 2 p.m. an April 16. Show will continue until Com­mencement Exercises. PLACE: Art Gallery, O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Blood rock 
in concert tonight 
The notorious Texas rock group, Bloodrock, will appear in concert tonight <Tuesday) at Morris Civic Auditorium. Bloodrock is perhaps best known for their startling-renditfon of "D.O.A.", a relese from Bloodrock 2, which was produced by former Grand Funk Railroad manager, Terry Knight. Also on the bill are Cactus and Potliquor. Cactus is composed of two former members of the Vanilla Fudge, bass player Tim Bogert and drummer Carmen Appice and three. new members. Among rock musicians, Cactus has acquired the reputation of being experts in the art of demolishing Holiday Inn rooms, and their recent recording "Bad Night in Cleveland" solidifies their position of leadership in this field. Potliquor is a new group from Baton Rouge, Louisiana. All three groups appeared at last weekend's Mary Sol Rock Festival at Vega Baja, Puerto Rico, and were well received by the crowd of 40,000. There are two shows scheduled for tonight's concert: 6:30 and 
9:30. Tickets for theconcert are priced at $4.00, $5.00, and $6.00 and will be available at the door at show time. 


In this age of inflation 
Mike Bourn 
It's heartening, in this age of inflation, to find a free concert that would be a bargain at $5 a throw. It's also hard, which is why I rejoiced in Saturday night's Folk Concert at SMC. 
Consider. In lead and final position we have the trio of guitarist Paul Guernsey, singer-guitarist Jim Moran, and the inimitable bass player, Jim Donnelly. 
I can't think of the proper superlatives, suffice to say, these people are good. With a program ranging from a Scottish sea song, to Gordon Lightfoot's Canadien Railroad Triology, to the humorous Ode to the John Birch Society, they were (personal opinion) the best act there (and the competition was fierce, too). 
Moran is an excellent singer, and Paul Guernsey's fast and slick finger-picking can't be adequately described. On a banjo he's ... weli ... Listen, look him up some time and ask to hear, say, "Breakdown in Dm", or maybe "Breakdown in Am,",either one. Or call long distance, it'd be worth it. 
Next we have Dan Gellert, of fiddle, autoharp, etc. fame, and guitarist Dick Tarrier, contributing music of the moun­tain folk and miners. Gellert, with his 1ectures on history and theory of the autoharp, is an an engaging sort. Their music was artful and enjoyable. I thought so, the audience though so.hence it was so. QUO. 
Dan will be playing again at St. Mary's soon, in a music workship affair, this time for cash. See your local paper for details. 
Beth Griffith and Ann Burlas followed with some nice vocal work. Their soft music--Grham Nash's "Our House" "I'll never Fall in Love Again" was i~ odd contrast to Gellert's mining ballads. Beth and Ann's polished harmonly was ac­companied by the . guitar work of Paul Guernsey, who's talented that way.In­termission 

Greta Anderson-Dave Huezo. (She sings, so does he. He plays guitar and piano). Doing mostly Spanish-Brazilian material, Grea. and Dave lack a certain polish, but certamly not talent. Miss Anderson has the sort of voice you will someday have to pay money to hear. Huezo sings well, but his really obvious skill is in Spanish guitar instrumentals. (After calling up to hear Guensey's banjo, you might ring up Dave to listen to his "Flamingo") They received a well-deserved standing ovation. 
In a return performance, Guensey-Moran­Donnelly finished the evening. Since one is in grad school somewhere, and the the other two are graduating, this was one of their last shows together, which is a pity. 
There were some minor flaws, of course. Moran misplaced the first line of a song, Gellert and Tarrier more or less made up their program as they wentalong, and Miss Burlas should maybe use thP microphone more. All all concerned had to hassle with an often recalcitrant sound system. Pure perfection gets dull, anyway. 
Sponsored by the Student llnion Social Sommission, the freebie concert drew a more than capacity crowd to Carroll Hall. It was organized by Paul Guernsey, who getsaround.· 
Presto-chango. You walk over reasoning, it's free, it can't be that bad-yo~ walk back wondering, it'd free, how can it be that good? 


-
---~---------~---------­
8 
the observer Tuesday, April 11, 1972 
Viewpoint --the dome 
Women at Yale: part 2 
five hundred girls admitted to Yale, the first The mixer continued to be used by Yale particularly, freshmen were breaking from
Dr. Rober1 Ackerman 
year only ten withdrew. students as a means by which they could it. The writers were able to gather evidence meet each other after the colleges became which suggested that the freshmen--both coed. The writers reported on the elaborate 
Sex at YaleThis is the second or a three part series in system of defense mechanisms which are

women and men--were able to adjust morewhich Dr. Ackerman. assistant dean or 
quickly than any other class group because employed by the participants in this social 
students, reviews the book Women at Yale. they were not as tradition bound as were exercise. Their account is particularly The witness concluded that the majorityYesterday Acker man discussed the 
either the Yale upperclassmen or the up­interesting because of what it says about of Yale's male students were attempting tophysical characteristics or the Yale campus perclass women transfers. dating behavior in the college environment. relate to females in a special way but thatand the composition or the student body. In Yale's administration was credited with they were very much afraid of being hurt ofaddition, he capsulized the history or co­handling everything well. President being used. The concern was frequentlyeducation at the Ivy League school, in­Brewster did cause some resentment by the Weekend on the Yale Campus reported that women were out to trap a Yalecluding student and alumni reaction to comment that Yale would continue to man as a husband. The women at Yale were Brewster's original ceducation actions. 
graduate one thousand leaders and five to deal
For the majority of the male students at prepared by both fact and rumor hundred woemn each year after full Yale, coeducation did not significantly with his, the Yale philosophy of male-female coeducation had been achieved. He later change their dating patterns. The mixer relationships. The student handbook retracted his original statement. Another was still used, but more frequently the male distributed to the yale Class of 1972 implied
when administrator
problem arose an students invited a girlfriend from a neigh­the philosophy:
stated that Yale decided to admit women
Recruiting Women boring school to spend the seekend on
because too many top male students would campus. It was found that the Yale student Treat Yale as you would a good
not enroll unless women were also present. woman. Take 
advantage of her many gifts, nourish yourself with
Admissions interviewers were advised to 
the fruits of her wisdom, curse her if you will, and
seek women who possessed the same 
congratulate yourself for the possession of her.
Women at Yale: Liberating a College campus
characteristics Yale sought in its male Community at Yale 
But treat her with respect. When you leave her, asJanel Lever and Pepper Schwartz
applicants--sensitivity, flexibility, 
you ultimately must, profit from the education sheThe Bobbs·Merrill Company, Ind.
motivation,creativeneas, and integrity. The Each of Yale's colleges--residence halls­
has given you.

Indianapolis, 1971, pp. 274.
admission of women to Yale received was headed by a master who functioned as national news coverage; the "New York the college's culture; t :hairman, host, lec­Times" did a feature on the highly qualified ture-seminar arranger, and party thrower. The most frequently reported term used female applicants who were rejected by A dean served as administrative head of the to describe the relationship between Yale
had little difficulty securing a date in this
Yale using that approach to depict the college and in that capacity functioned as men and women was"objectification."
manner because of the prestige that went
"super women" who were to be counted as the students' advisor, counselor, and While the term itself was not specifically
along with dating a "Yale man."
the first five hundred. To fill the two hun­academic ombudsman. The writers sensed defined, it implied depersonalization or dred fifty spots designated for freshmen, that because of the close relationship that deindividuation. The complaint was that
The weekend dating system was not
Yale received 2,850 applications. The existed between the deans and the students, Yale men did not perceive their female
without problems. The weekend is not long 
"Times article suggested that this ratio there was little possibility that a feeling of colleagues as individuals, but rather as
enough for the couple to establish any kind,
would lead to super selectivity which in turn alienation would develop on campus. Each members of the category "girls." In the
of a relationship at a personal level. The
would produce a group of super women. college maintained a separate identity. classrooms this objectification occurred
system produced relationships that were not
Many of those were were admitted were Few students sought to transfer from one most frequently when the professors called 
betweep people as people,but rather bet­
angered by tbe "super women" image hall to another, although once the dorms upon the female students to respond to the
ween people as objects with personal
assigned to them by both the media and went coed, there was a higher incidence of discussion topic from the "girls' point of
prestige very much at stake in that it
Yale. Specifically, the girls felt that an students shifting around. view." In this sense one was not a person
mattered a great deal whom one was seen
image had been created for them as a group The loudest complaint voiced against but a representative or spokesman for a
with. The tradition established by the
before they arrived on ~ Ql" could coeducation by males following the arrival group. Objectification at the student level
weekend system allowed that women were
directly contribute to that image. Once they of the female students was that of over­came to imply that the "girls" were to be
available at specific times--the weekend, for 
arrived on campus, the women studets were crowding; the size of the student population viewed by the men solely as potential sex 
a specific reason--to date. So ingrained was 
so often approached for interviews and the had been increased without a corresponding partners.
this tradition that the writers spoke to a
like that they reported a feeling of being increase in available facilities. The writers Coeducation brought to light the double
Y~le senior who reported his ssurprise in
singled out as an oddity. One reported this identified a serious approach-avoidance standard of role expectations that existed
discovering that the women actually had
feeling: situation in that the male population favored as a common belief among the male
parents.
coeducation but were not personally willing students. A sophomore explained it simply: to compromise in order to gain it. While seniors and juniors remained very
When I first came here I was really put off by 
Although dating among residents of the much tied to the traditional pattern of the A girl who sleeps around is in some sense going
it...because we were girls with a capital G. At 
same college did occur. the students were weekend date, some evidence was found to to be talked about by her peers cc,ttily; a guy who
might we would walk around and these sort of 
confronted with the problem of having to support the idea that sophomores and, sleeps around becomes an object of admiration.
aggressive people, sort of obnoxious, were always 
differentiate between dates and friends,
following us around... 
particularly since at Yale friendships had heretofore been between male students. A freshman complained: The general feeling of the female sutdnets on this point was summarized by a fresh­
It is so difficult to establish authentic relation· man who reported: ships with men. They seemed frightened of us. It's difficult to tell if a man is interested in me as a The first week I was exstatic, but when things personorasoneolthefewwomenaround. settled down I qat really depressed. Mostly, I' 
didn't expect the male attitude. It's mostly among the upperclassmen especially those who didn't go
With the passage of time and as the 
to a coed high school. They just don·t know how to
demands of class work began to build, some 
enter into a relationship with a girl except for a
of this initial awkwarnness vanished. And, 
real intense one.. They don't know how to take
it was reported, the girls began to ap­
things casually, from day to day, on a friendly
preciate being the centers of attention. A 
basis and let it grow from there...there is just the
male freshman said, "The girls here are 
view of the woman as sex object...everything is
high on being women at Yale." 
physical. 

HPalities of the coed Environment Tht> Mixt>r Dance 
After classes had been in session for Social activities at Yale's colleges several weeks and the initial adjustment traditionally centered around the stage, period was concluded, the writers began to band, and beer bar that comprised the see evidnece that for an institution to go mixer dance. By importing women from coeducational meant more than just placing nearby colleges, the mixers afforded an men and women in some environment. On opportunity for students to meet one another
-
the matter of dating.it was found the males providing someone was willing to risk who paid so much attention to the Yale girls rejection by making the first move. during the week still regularly dated girls The writers found that the chance of a girl from nearby campuses on the weekend. and a guy meeting at a mixer was depen­
Thus the Yale girls found themselves in dent upon considerations of appearance; the the unique position of being centers of at­pretty girls with the good figures were the tention from Monday to Friday, but ignored first ones asked to dance and they preferred on the weekend. The authors attributed this handsome guys as partners. Because of the dating pattern to (1) a fear of competition role played by physical attributes, the for the scarce resource of Yale girls; the mixers were referred to as "cattle shows," ratio was over eight to one, (2) men did not "meat markets" or "flesh on the hoof" by caretoaa.te women with whom they shared the Yale undergraduates. A Yale freshman every day activities; the need to get away reacted to her first mixer by stating that: from those whom you are constantly with, and, (3) many men were involved in a set dating pattern that had resulted in I think mixers are grotesque. Here you are, a traditional and successful relationships. piece of meat lined up along the wall in a herd of Resentment by the female students of the females. You try to stand casually as guys walk \Yeekend dating pattern did not develop back and forth and you know you are on 
mainly because the environment provided a display..then you are asked to dance by these variety of compensating activities; of the really gross creatures. 

Tuesdav. April 11, 1972 the observer 
9 

The_ Observer is published daily during the college semester eccept vacat10ns by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's JCollege. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556, Second class postage paid.
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

by Art Ferranti Observer Hollywood Reporter 
The French Connection took five academy awards including best picture and best actor and Charles Chaplin received an honorary oscar last night in the 44th Annual Academy Awards. 
Jane Fonda was the best actress for Klute and Cloris Leachman and Ben Johnson both took oscarshorrie for their supporting roles in The Last Picture Show. Gene Hack­man won the best performance by an actor for The French Con­nection. 
The Awards were highlighted by two "extravaganzas," segments reminiscent of old Hollywood which culmi'lated in a tribute to Charles Chaplin. Joel Grey did an opening number musically tracing Hollywood's history. Isaac Hayes 
McGOVERN CAN WIN 
'French Connection' wins five Academy Awards 
He and thousands of workers proved that in Wisconsin. George McGovern wants to end the War. To give the poor a glimpse of the future. To see decency run rampant in high places. To cure the melancholy of America. 
All this is possible with George McGovern. And he must be heard. Your money is his voice. Your hands are his strength. GIVE. Michigan Primary-May 16 Ohio Primary-May 2 
[-~~~5~~~-~; -M~~~~~~-~ ------------­
name----------------------~~-­
address  phone_______  
I enclose $2.  I enclose  $  
I can work.  I have a car-.­ 

mail or bring to 437 Breen Phillips Hall or call 283-1363 for information. 

NO -SMC for McGovern-AI Cramer Chairman 
Advertisement Advertisement 
To a graduating student who was helped through college by guaranteed loans 
Fi111t -congratulations! You have proved you have wha.t it takes to get the education you need. And we know it wasn't easy. 
One important step you took was to invest in your own future. You did this by taking out one or more loans, guaranteed either by United Student Aid Funds, or a state agency, or the Federal government. 
These loans were society's vote of con­
fidence in you. They were equally your 
vote of confidence in yourself. 
By finishing school, you have taken the 
first vitally important step to justify that 
vote of confidence. 
The second step is to pay back the money 
you owe. 
So we hope you will make arrangements 
right now, before you leave school, to begin repayment of this debt. 
• 
Check with your Financial Aid Office to be sure your records are in 01·der. 

• 
Make an appointment with the banker who loaned the money to you, and arrange a realistic repayment schedule. 


You need not make your first payment until ten months after graduation, but you will be able to make other plans with far greater· assurance if you know now exactly what 
you will need to set aside each month for 
your loan. Meeting this obligation faithfully is one of the most important steps you can take­for your own benefit. 
Your repayments will prove your respon­sibility. They will establish your credit for the time when you may need it to buy a car, a house -and, some day, a baby carriage. Or a business. 
You will be helping other deserving stu­dents, too. For as each loan we guarantee is repaid, the money we have set aside to guarantee it is released to generate another low-cost student loan. \Ve have guaranteed over 300,000 of these loans already. And with your help, we look forward to guaran­teeing loans for future generations of col­lege students. 
So meeting your payment schedules will help you. It will help other students. And it will help society. 
Once more, our hearty congratulations­and good lurk as vou leave campus to make your mark in the work-a-day world! 
John H. Mathis, President 
UNITED STUDENT AID FUNDS, !);'C. 
A Nonprofit Corporation ~Serving Education 845 Third Avenue, New York, I\. Y. 10022 
did the presentation of the theme from Shaft! 
F'ilm clips of Chaplin preceded his arrival which was heralded by a standing ovation. Chaplin will be 83 years old in five days. 
Other oscar winners were: 
Best achievement in Directing ­William Friedkin, The French Connection. 
Best Story and Screenplay ­Paddy Chayefsky, The Hospital. Best Screenplay -Ernest 
Tidyman, The French Connection. Outstanding Achievement in Music -Isaac Hayes, Shaft. 
Film Editing -Jerry Greenberg, The French Connection. $ Music (scoring) -John Williams, Fiddler on the Roof 
Music <dramatic score) -Michel Legrand, Summer of '42. 
Art Director Alexandra. Costume Alexandra.  -Nicholas Nicholas  and and  
Documentary Clll'onicle. Documentary Silence.  -The Hellst-Sentinels  rom of  

Sound -Fiddler on the Roof. Foreign Language Film -The Ga1·den of Finzi-Contini. 

t:harlie Chaplin in the role that made him famous. 
Best Short Subjects (animated) ­
The Crunch Bird. 
Short Subjects (five) -Sentinels 
of Silence. 
Visual Effects -Bedknobs and 
Broomsticks. 
$ Cinematography -Fiddler on 
the Roof. 
The main emcees of the night 
were Miss Helen Hayes, Alan King 
(who said of Raquel Welch, "Best 
Live Action"), Sammy Davis, Jr., 
and Jack Lemmon. 

Italian Night dinner 
scheduled for Thursday 
The students will observe Special Italian Night on Thursday evening, April 13, from 4:45 to 6 :30 in ;the North Dining Hall and South Dining Hall. Many weeks have been put into the preparation of this gala evening for the enjoyment of all. Halls will be decorated with various flowers, festoons and balloons. Bibs will be made available. 
Those attending are invited to get into the spirit of Italian Night by wearing peasant blouses, costumes, etc. 
Special Italian Night Menu 

Antipasto: Mozzarell and Provolne Cheese Cubes, Assorted Olive, Salami and Dill Cornucopias, Ma,rinated Cocktail Franks, Tuna Chunks, Pickled Red Quartered Eggs, Celery, Carrots and Cucumber Sticks. 
Entte~s: Polio all Diavola 'broiled deveiled chicken; Parmigiana di Melanzane, (Eggplant parem~san); Polpette alla Casalinga (meatballs) 
Entrees: Polio all Diavola, <Broiled deviled chicken); Parmigiana di Melanze <Eggplant parmesan); Polpette all Casalinga (meta balls); Frito Scampi <Deep Fried Shrimp). 
Pasta: Linguini (fine spaghetti) ; Fettucini Verdi al Burro (SpinachEgg Noodles) ; 
Vegetable: Italian Green Beans. 
Salad: Insalata Italiano. 
Desserts: Gelato (lee .. Creani); Granite <Sherberts); Cheese cake. 
Garlic Bread, Assorted Hard Dinner Rolls and Mock Wine. 
Head & Shoulders 


Super -Tube 7 oz -lotion 11 oz 
]65 


PRELl CONCENTRATE 3 oz. Large Size 75 ¢ $1.09 MFR's sugg retail 
Notrfi D-ame Bookstore 
-
-
Tuesday, April 11, 1972

the observer 
How baseball players handle the strike 
by Arthur Daley Altomaro, a former catcher who is It's enough to make a guy u1strust 
(C) New York Times a greenskeeper at the Greenwich generalizations. Country Club. "How will this layoff affect the 
New York April 10--This is the hitters? It has to hurt some of day when the New York Mets were "I found a little embankment in them and it won't bother others. I supposed to open their home the yard behind the house," ex­know for a fact that Bud Harrelson baseball season against the St. plained Tim, "and decided that it has to work hard in spring training Louis Cardinals and it would have would serve nicely as a pitcher's to get his timing down. But a been a certamty tbat Tom Seaver mound. Then I tried eyeballing the Richie Allen can show up a month would have been on the Shea distance from the mound to where late and hit one over the fence in Stadium mound. But the only the plate should be. Luckily I his first at-bat. I once read that Tymound he was on today was a played it safe by also using a tape Cobb held out all spring, signed on makeshift one in his backyard as measure. Would you believe it? I opening day and got three or four he struggled to preserve the fast­was five feet too long when I was hits. And what about Ted Williams 
fading sharpness that had been just guessing. after his return from Korea?" attained after punishing weeks of "How sharp am I now? I It was in 1953 that Williams dedication and application during honestly don't know. It's difficult returned from a second tourof duty spring training. to tell unless you are pitching to a as a marine flyer and reported to 
The strike by the major league hitter. You can have the feel of the Red Sox in late July when the players 11 days ago has been a throwing well andyet you just can't pitchers were at their sharpest and disruptive experience not only to be sure. An integral part of pit­everyone was ahead of him. After Seaver but to all the ballplayers-­ching is seeing the hitters' reac­only a week of batting practice Ted and also to the owners, for I that tions and I find myself guided by rank the gong in his second pinch­matter. It never happened before those reactions. hitting chore. He hit a tremendous and no one knows exactly how to "It takes me a long while to get home run. Greeting him in the handle the personal problems that my timing and rhythm together dugout was Joe Cronin, then his have evolved from it. That's why properly. It's also a long grind for manager and now President of the each is groping toward his own Gary Gentry. Yet I understand American League. solution. The Seaver system is to that Sam McDowell can start in at "You have just set back spring warm up every other day with Red the top with everything in place. training 20 years," said the 
'Revenge' assassinations 1nark underworld-chieftain funeral 
by Eric Pace day, some police officials said are known to have passed out 
(c) 1972 New York Times News Ciprio fitted the description of cigars in the Colombo-dominated Service Gallo's unknown killer, who was in section of Brooklyn after word 
New York, April 10--Two more his forties and had a bald spot in spread that Gallo had been killed, men were assassinated in front. But later the police said and cemetery attendants said gangland style here today a few Ciprio was in his thirties and had a Gallo family members had askEd hours before a cortege of black full head of lustrous black hair. to have a bent put up beside the Cadillacs escorted the body of The latest killings were the grave today, apparently to·protect Joseph Gallo, the murdered Maria fourth and fifth gangland-style themselves from snipers and 
cheiftain, to his Brooklyn grave. murders in the city in the last five police cameramen. 
The new victims were GennAro days. There was no immediate About 50 mourners--the men in Ciprio, who was killed outside his comment from Police Com­black coats, the women in furs and Brooklyn restaurant, and Frank missioner Patrick V. Murphy or shawls-took their places in and Ferriano, a New Jersey laun­chief of detectives Albert Seedman around the tent as two priests dryman. His 340-pound body was about the continuing mayhem. performed a brief graveside 
found in a Manhattan parking lot. They spent today attending a service. "Perhaps we're getting a rash of convention of police chiefs at the Reached at Brooklyn diocesan Mafia killings like you get a rash of Hilton Hotel. headquarters, an aide to Bishop 
hijackings or bombings," said Gallo, who was known as Crazy Francis J. Mugavero said that in Joe, was killed early Friday as he past years the policy was that was celebrating his 43rd birthday obsequies for persons whose lives 

in a Mulberry Street restaurant were touched by scandal should be one blo.ck south of Police "as private as possible." But in Headquarters. Two l-esser recent years, he said, the policy gangland figures, Bruno Car­has been somewhat relaxed. nevale and Thomas Edwards, As the priests led the mourners were assassinated on Thursday. in The Lord's Prayer, Gallo's 
As of this evening, the police had sister, Mrs. Carmella Fiorello, made only one arrest in connection fainted. One priest fell silent in with any of the killings. They dismay, but the mourners prayed charged Gallo's bodyguard, Peter on as a relative held Mrs. Fiorello ("Pete the Greek") Diapoulas, in place on her campshair. Gallo's with illegal possession of a handgun surviving brother, Albert ("Kid after he was ·wounded in the Blast") was impassive and so was Mulberry Street Shooting. his widow, Lina, behind her dark Diapoulas winced from the pain glasses. She held the hand of her of his hip wound as he took a seat in tO-year-old daughter by an earlier one of the 13 rented limousines that marriage. The little girl had been followed the hearse carrying in the Mulberry Street restau!"ant Gallo's $5,000 bronze casket to the when Gallo was killed, and she had Gennaro Ciprio, murdered Mafia burial site in Greenwood laid roses in his coffin with a 
bodyguard. 
Cemetery. ribbon .marked "Love, Lisa." High police officials said no After the service, Gallo'sDeputy Police Commissioner mourners came from the Colombo mother, Mrs. Mary Gallo, hurledRobert Daley, "but there's no or Gambino clans--two Mafia herself on the gilded casket sob­indication yet that these guys are families that have long competed bing, "My baby, my son." She was­related to the Gallo killing." 
The head of the Brooklyn with the Gallo family. carried gently off to her Cadillac. "This is surprising, and it could Other mourners, including the
Federal anticrime strike force said indicate a lack of esteem," one actory Jerry Orbach and his wife,that Ciprio was an associate of Mafia expert said. Others said it filed past, placing individualGallo's chief rival, Joseph A. 
Colombo Jr., btlt he said Ciprio reflected tension in the underworld flowers on the casket. was not a member of the Colombo in the wake of Gallo's death. Cemetery attendants said that Mafia organization. Early in the Opponents of the Gallo family law enforcement officials had 
Federal agency for airline 
by Richard Witkin extradition of local punishment of Browne stressed that the airlines 
<c> 1972 New York Times News air pirates and that consideration and various .federal and local Service be given to even stronger agencies were probably doing all 
New York, April 10--The measures. they could under existing laws, but Chairman of the Civil Aeronautics he argued that the system was Board, Secor D. Browne, Expressing deep concern handicapped ty the issue of "who's 
suggested today that President following four aircraft crimes over in charge?" and was "not good
Nixon name a high-level com­the weekend, Browne said: enough."mission to explore the possibility of "We've grabbed the problem bygiving a federal agency the job of the ankles, not the throat." 
providing airline and airport Browne, who was a businessmansecurity. 
The four crimes alluded to w.ere and professor or aeronauticsBrowne, in an interview, made the two abortive $500,000 extortion before joining the Nixon ad­the suggestion because, he said, attempts in this country, a ministration, said it had to bethe system for preventing airline Peruvian hijacking in which the "remembered that we are dealinghijackings is inadequate and suspect was overpowered in the with a criminal threat to theimpractical. 
air and the hijacking of a plane national security--to the economyIn the international area, the fro~ Puerto Rico to Cuba . with a and to the society."
C.A.B. chief urged that the banker hostage and $290,000 in Major airports have to beviewed
President seek to hasten ransom money. as the nations' frontier and
ratification of treaties calling for grinning Cronin. 
Seaver nodded appreciatively. "Ted had fabulous ability," he said, "but he also-JiM a willingness to study the art of hitting. Gosh, there are some fellers who can fall out of bed and his a baseball. But that's where it stops. They don't learn anything about it. Natural talent plus knowledge, a tough combination to beat. 
"But where do we go from here? I originally thought that a one­week strike wouldn't hurt too much but that two weeks could be trouble, especially for the pitchers. 
The hitters can bounce back quicker because they will be playing every day as soon as we resume but the pitchers must wait between starts. It may be necessary to work two or three pitchers a game in the early stages of the season just as we do at the start of spring training." 
What that will amount to will be 
the using of real games to regain 
whatever conditioning has been 
lost during the enforced idleness. 
Presumably, it will be the same for everyone but that isn't necessarily a correct assumption. For in­stance, older ball players don't crank up as fast as younger ones. Some athletes require painstaking preparation while others, as Seaver says, can fall out of bed and be ready. 
Until there is a settling down into the ,grooves that had had just about been reached before the strike brought an abrupt end to spring training, strange hap­penings are likely to to make the start of the new season-­wwhenever that is. It might even have a crazy quilt pattern of both high-scoring and low-scoring games as well as all sorts of contradictions, surprises and whatnots. But baseball had better hurry up and settle the owner­player dispute soon. If the t.wo greedy parties permit it tolinger, they may discover to their dismay that their alienated fans no longer care. 

filmed the occasion from a panel and a .38 caliber pistol. trick. High police officials refused to comment, but one said, Ferriano was wearing work "Of course this kind of funeral has clothes when his body was found been a big deal for us, ever since lying face up behind a shack in the prohibition days." parking lot at 41 Dominick Street. 
Daley said the police felt He was unarmed, but was carrying "cautious optimism" about their $100 in bills. chances for solving the Gallo slaying. He said that some of, the more than a dozen witnesses who "He was a big guy, built like a were in the restaurant were wrestler," said a truck driver, Ed cooperating and some were not. Duer, who saw the corpse. It took 
Speaking of the two men found eight policemen to lift it i,nto an dead today, Daley said, "There's ambulance. no question these guys have criminal connections going back years.' Ciprio had been arrested Commissioner Daley said the eight times, and Ferriano once--on police's investigation wo~ld spread a concealed weapons charge in to New Jersey since Ferriano had 1958. lived there. And, speaking of both 
Ciprio was shot as he left his the Ciptio and Ferriano murders, restaurant at 2:45 a.m. He was he said, "They may be just people later found to be carrying $1,3000 settling private scores." 
•

security IS urged 
"should be protected as such," ne T~ansportation, said he agreed said. He added that aviation w1th Browne's "basic premise that security should be financed by the the airline system is a national government, a view bound to find resource which we must preser­favor with the airlines. ve." 
Noting that he had discussed the 
proposal with Browne Davis said clipper captain was charged a fee the ideas were "worth 'examining" by the navy for putting down but added: Barbary Pirates," he said. 
"I don't think at this juncture that I would go along with !:' federalThe man in direct charge of the force of the magnitude he isnation's aviation security visualizing .. .I really can'tprogram, Benjamin 0. Davis Jr., 
visualize.,it. And yet, a year ago Ioffered a cautious response to wouldn't have visualized severalBrowne's initiative. 
guys asking for half a million dollars. 
Davis, an assistant secretary of 
Tuesday, April 11, 1972 the observer 
11 

Irish at home against Wildcats 
will work one-third of the nine­through the South. inning game. Mike Riddell (1-0, 'Cats are returning a veteran team hands of the weather this spring. "But other than that," continued midt (.263) at shortstop, and Rob
2.52) will start for the Irish. Rich this year, and they will be led by Both--until recently--have been Kline, "we don't know anything at Reschan (.429), four home runs) atEich (2-0, 3.94) will work the versatile Bob Artemenko. Ar­about Northwestern. We third. Bob Roemer (.212) will
middle third of the game, and Ed limited to mostly indoor practice, all temenko paced Northwestern both and both have just returned from haven't received any information handle the catching chores.
Hrabscak 0-1, 3.54) will finish up. 
offensively and defensively last southern road trips. about their team, and we don't
"I'm going to use three pitchers In the outfield Kline will 
season.
so they can all get some work," even know where they went on probably start Ken Schuster (.379), 
"We've had to spend a lot of time
said Kline, "and so they'll all be in As a hitter he posted a .310 their spring trip.'' Dick Nussbaum (.243), and
inside this spring," said Kline,
average, and as a pitcher: his 3.42
shape for the Ohio University Howard Wood (.227), but "may
"but we've been able to get out­Notre Dame's lineup for today's
series later in the week. Riddell, ERA was the best on the 'Cats' change some of the outfielders,
doors recently, so that's not going game will be basically the same
Eich, and Hrabscak will each work mound staff. Artemenko, when not depending on whether Nor­
to bother us too much. They one that finished the road trip a
three innings, and I'll use Jim Noe on the hill, holds down the short­thwestern uses a lefthanded or a
(Northwestern) have been going week ago at Delta State.
(2-0, 2.00) if I need him." stop position in the Wildcat infield. righthanded pitcher." 
through the same thing, so things'll The frish infield will have JoeThe Irish nine dumped Nor­Notre Dame and Northwestern be just about 50-50 out there when LaRocca (.371) at first base, Tom
thwestern 7-4 last season, but the This lineup was an effective one
have shared similar fates at the we play them. 
Hansen ( .300) at second, Pete Sch-during the recent road trip. The • • • Irish batted .274 as a team and collected nine home runs in the tenSailors open zn wznnzng fashion games they played. And Notre Dame's mound staff was equally 
St. Patrick's Day saw the Irish many people as possible-not just third; Ohio State fourth and N.D. effective. Eight Irish hurlers
With four regattas under their belt, the Notre Dame SailingClub hosting the Annual Freshman the good skippers. The more fifth. posted a collective earned run
The strategy of training many
has gotten the spring season off to Icebreaker Regatta. Novices and people that get intercollegiate average of 3.39, and registered
skippers and crews paid off early three shutouts and five completea creditable start. Finishing freshmen from eight midwestern racing experience, the better off when veteran skippers George
fourth in the Windjammer Regatta schools battled it out on St. Joe games during the trip.
the team will be in the end." Gaw, Kevin Hoyt, Will Conelan,in New Orleans in February, the lake despite the chilly weather. 
The final tally for the freshman and John Boyd teammed with
team began a tough spring season George Gaw, racing team Today's starter, Mike Riddell,
freshman crews Bruce Maek,
of national and midwestern in­captain, explained N.D.'s sailing regatta saw Marquette first; holds one of those shutouts (a 5-Q
Andy Burner, and Robert Alberco
tercollegiate sailing. strategy: "We're going to sail as Oshkosh second; Northwestern win over Memphis State),and
and placed fifth in a thirteen school Rich Eich, who will work thefleet in national intercollegiate middle three innings, holds
competition at Annapolis over another (a 6-o shellacking ofspring break. 
Christian Brothers.)

N.D. was third after the first day of racing, but heavy winds and "I think we can develop into a rough seas (unusual on St. Joe's good-hitting team," said Kline,lake l dropped the Irish to fifth by "and the pitching might be good,
the end of the two-day regatta. The we've to down on
but got cut first four finishers were Navy, defensive and mental mistakes. 

Tulane, Stevens Institute, and This has cost us a a couple of ball 
Princeton. In N.D.'s wake were U. games."of Penn., Harvard, Cornell, Clemson, R.I.P.,Bucknell, Textile, Physically, Kline's squad is in 
and Georgetown. good shape for its home opener.
Last weekend at Indiana Regular second baseman TonyUniversity the team got it Zappia was lost for the season (re­together. Senior skippers Ed separated shoulder) after the first 
Sweeney, Tim Flood and Tom game of the year, but that has been 
Willison and juniors Will Donelan, the only injury suffered by the ND George Gaw, and Kevin Hoyt took team. 
·a string of firsts and seconds that 
"We've had no (physical)

won the regatta by a wide margin. 
problems," said Kline, "exceptother midwest teams at Indiana with Zappia. other than that we've included M.S.U., Iowa, Ohio State, had no sore arms or anything. I'dOhio Wesleyan, Xavier, Oshkosh, say we're in pretty good shape."

Ball State, Bowling Green, Miami, 
Wayne State, and Wabash. 
With a fourth and a fifth in Kline has a healthy team with a national competition, and a fifth healthy record, and he's hoping and a first in the midwest, Notre that things will stay that way Dame's sailors stand an excellent through the weekend's series with chance to keep the number one Ohio U. Today's game will be ranking in midwest spring season played at Cartier Field--north of racing that they earned last year. the ACC fieldhouse--and is 
I · · th 1 F h R This weekend's regatta at Oh1"0 scheduled to get underway at 3:00
Novice members of Notre Dame's Sailing Club whee mto a turn m e annua res man t>gatta.r-----------------------------------------~--------------------------------------~State will pose a ~-~te~s~t.~____P_-_m_.____________________~ 
NEW AD DEADLINE 
All ads must be in by 1:00 the day before publication 
New office hours 1O:am -S:pm M-T 
1 O:am -2:30 pm Friday 




• 
12 
the observer 

McGovern beco111es cautious 
(c) 1972 New York Times 

Washington, April 10--Sen. George S. McGovern plans only a cautious courtship of the industrial heartland in the Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan primaries that will choose 467 Democratic con­vention delegates in the next five weeks. 
Even if Sen. Edmund S. Muskie neglects the Massachusetts primary on April 25 to improve his chances of a comeback in Penn­sylvania the same day, McGovern aides say they will bear down on Massachusetts in hope of winning it. 
Last week McGovern speculated that if, as now seems likely, Muskie relaxed his Massachusetts effort, he would follow the Maine Democrat into Pennsylvania and hope to take full advantage of the split there between Muskie and Sen. Hubert H. Hunphrey. 
But the top McGovern staff members who met yesterday to plan phase two of the nomination campaign said today that they could not manage two statewide primary efforts at the same time. 
The Pennsylvania campaign will target Philadelphia and its suburbs and Allegheny County, around Pittsburgh, but even in those big media markets the McGovern advertising will be limited to radio. The goal will be to win clusters of delegates but not a popular statewide victory. 
Gary Hart, McGovern's chief of staff, said today that the staff was still "assessing our strategy" for the Ohio primary mi May 2 and "running hard" in Michigan, where primary voting is scheduled May 16. But neither state has yet won a commitment of money, time or experiences national staff that contributed to McGovern's recent victory in Wisconsin. And in neither Michigan nor Ohio does Hart foresee a McGovern win. 
In the month of primaries after those in Massachusetts and Pennsylvania, the McGovern camp hopes only to win Nebraska on May 9 and Oregon on May 23, but the theory of McGovern aides is that those will be enough to set up decisive victories in California and New York in June. 

Muskie changf:s plans 
by James M. Naughton 
(c) 1972 New York Times News Service 
Pittsburgh, April 10--Sen. Ed­mund S. Muskie, responding to brooding unhappiness among young members of his Presidential campaign staff, paid a visit to his Washington headquarters this morning to declare that he was going to "work like hell" for the Democratic nomination "until the last delegate vote is counted in Miami Beach in July." 
The Maine Senator's pep talk to some 100 workers and volunteers apparently was prompted by complaints made at a lengthy meeting in the headquarters last Thursday, when young supporters protested bitterly of a "Berlin Wall" between them and the candidate. They demanded an opportunity to tell Muskie that his faltering campaign was burning up resources in states such as Florida and Wisconsin-where he came in fourth in primaries--and that such funds should be used to build grass roots support in key states. 
The staff members cheered, however, this morning when 
Muskie  told  them  that  he  had  
decided  to  abandon  his  plan  to  
contest  virtually  all  23  of  the  

primaries. He later confirmed the chan~e in strategy during a 

~~~~~~~~~~==~~~ 
Live interview with Dr. Stein 
White House answers to such questions as the state of the economy in the wake of Phase II, the continuing threat of inflation, and the nation's unfavorable I 
balance of payments will be 1 available to graduate students in the College-of Business Ad­ministration at the Universityr of Notre Dame Tuesday (April 11) today, when a live telephonic in­terview is conducted with Dr. Herbert Stein, chairman of the President's Council of Economic television interniew in Pittsburgh. 
"We're going to go where the delegates are and in those areas where our chance of getting delegates is best," Muskie said here. 
He listed the primaries in Pennsylvania and Massachusetts on April 25, Ohio on May 2, California on June 6 and New York on June 20. 
The Senator said he would 
·resolve the dilemma posed by confrontations the same day with Sen. Hubert H. Humphrey iri Pennsylvania and Sen. George McGovern in Massachusetts by asking supporters in the two states to shoulder much of the effort. 
ND grad leads coup 
Jose Napoleon Suarte, mentioned in wire service accounts as a leader of Sunday's abortive coup in El Salvador, is a 1948 civil engineering graduate fo the University of Notre Dame. 
News accounts have noted his Feb.20 loss in the country's presidential election, inwhich he headed a Leftist coalition. ' Duarte, 46, has had his own engineering firm in San Salvador and has served three terms as mayor of the city. 
At last reports, Duarte was under arrest. Father Hesburgh is attempting, through Chruch and government channels, to insure his safety, according to Richard W. Conklin, Director of MD In­formation Services. 
Advisors. ~--------------------------t-
Seated in his Washington office I Stein will answer questions sub~ mitted by students in their Notre . Dame classroom during a class ' period beginning at 1:15 pm. An 
amplified phone system with remote control microphones will permit the students to pursue certain topics introduced in the 
conver~ation. 
The um~ue system, since its introduction at Notre Dame last year, has resulted in live con­versations with noted authorities in various fields from wid_ely separated areas of the nation. One 
-class in international finance used the system earlier this year to maintain regular meetings with their professor, LeClaire Eels, when he was confined to his bed after an op_eration. 
"Enjoy an Evening of Music by the Singing Irish" University of Notre Dame Glee Club 
SPRING CONCERT 
Tues., Apr. 11 
8:15 pm Washington Hall Admission Free 
CLASSIFIED ADS 

BLOODROCK 
CACTUS 
POTLIQUOR 
in concert Tuesday, April 11 -tonight 
Morris Civic Auditorium 214 N. Michigan Ave. 
2 Shows: 6:30 and 9:30 
All tickets reserved: $6.00, $5.00, $4.00 Advance 
tickets at Morris Civic Box Office, 11-6 daily. 
For further information call: 232-6954 or 1721 
NOTICES 

STUDY AND TRAVEL IN EUROPE. 6 week summer session at University of Vienna earns 6 ND credits. Act now! 234­6519. 
Parts and Accessories for Im­ported cars. Foreign Car Parts Co. 215 ~ Dixieway North (Roseland) 272-7187. 
Nominations open at SMC for Exec. Cabinet: NSA Coordinator Student Union Asst. Director Off Campus Commissioner Public Relations Commissioner Human Affairs Commissioner Hall Life Commissioner 
Submit name to Susan Welte-box 436 or call 5375-4679 by midnight, Wed., April 12. 
Nominations being accepted for SMC: 
Judicial Board Chairman, Members, and Alternates Community Relations Board Appellate Board 
Submit name to Susan Welte-box 436 or call 5375-4679 by midnight, Wed., April 12. 
Accounting Major for Campus 
Rep. For national CPA review course Call I Reverse Charges) or write to BECKER CPA REVIEW 226 E. 8th St. Cincinnati, Ohio 
Tel: (513) 651-4487. 
~0 gallons free gas with 4 tire purchase; 25 free gallons gas with 2 tire purchase. Ask about our rustproofing and shock absorber specials. Ron's Standard 1409 Portage Ave. 255-0520. 
Beaux-Art Ball, Saturday, April 
15. 9 pm -2am. Ox Peddle theme­Super market stomp. Creative . attire, Tickets: Architecture Library. 
FOR RENT 

Kitchen & Rooms -45 mo. girls only. Also free rent for summer lor painting the house. 233-1329. 
Law student to sublet home this 
summer  3  bedroom,  garage,  
lurnished.  $140 per mon th.  233­ 
1612.  

LOST AND FOUND 
LOST: Thoreau's Walden: Hardbound, personal value reward. Call 3444. 
PERSONALS 

Dear Secret Admirerer (Ad­mirer), 
The trip delayed me, but thanks for the sexy pictures. Also, thanks lor the clue. 
Paul 

Dear Mike, science major from St. Louis. I met you at the Marlin Beach in Ft. Lauderdale. Please write to me and send a picture. Love. Stephanie Lipovich, 5444 Williams St. Painesville OH 
WANTED 
WSND FM needs girls to help in lhe planning and production of next year's children's program. 
Interested? Call Mike 3702. 
Recycle your books with Pandora SB at ND Aves. 233-2342. 
Typing Wanted: Experienced, Accurate. Themes, manuscripts. Call: Jane Smith 233-6909. 
WANTED: A 45 rpm record of an "oldie but baddie" for a practical joke. Does anyone have "Love is All Around" by the Trogs? Any of you winners from the Association concert? Please Call 8256. 
WANTED: We will do typing anytime for reasonable prices, especially on short notice. Call Chip 8256 or Mike 6963. 
Need ride to Ohio (exit 13) this weekend. 5205. 
FOR SALE 
Stereo Amp FM Tuner Automatic Turntable. Perfect Condition. $75. 283-7634-288-4160. 
For Sale-Bancroft's Best Wooden Tennis Racquet. Used regularly for only one summer. Excellent bargain. Call 1675 for details. 
For Sale: KLH Model 24 stereo system, with AM-FM stereo -one year old. Call-3272. 
1966 MGB, Blue, wired wheels, AM-FM radio. Superb condition, must see to believe. New BFG. oversized radials all around. $1200 or best offer. Call Jack at 232-4134. 
For Sale: Two girl's bikes. Perfect condition, one 3 speed. Call 3110. 
1971 HONDA CB100 ·only driven 800 miles. Call 1166. 
For Sale Ampex AM-FM Stereo Cassette System. Brand New Heads. Also, pair Custom made speakers, 1 yr. old. Cheap -Must Sell. Call 2106. 
2 bedroom home on large sooded lot near campus, NW; one bedroom with panelling and built­in bookshelves, ideal for study; new aluminum storm windows, new colonial cedar siding, wall to wall carpeting, newly redecorated kitchen, soft water system, 1';' car garage. For sale by owner. Priced for quick sale. Call 234­8652. 
Words 1da 2da 3da 4da 5da 
1-10 .65 .95 1.15 1.35 1.55 ll-1 5 1.00 1.50 1.85 2.10 2.40 16-20 1.30 1.95 2. IS 2.55 2.95 21-25 1.70 2.55 3.20 3.85 4.45 26-30 2.10 3.15 3.95 4.75 5.45 31-35 2.45 3.65 4.45 4.75 6.15 36-40 2.80 4.20 5.25 6.75 7.75 41-45 3.15 4.70 5.90 7.10 8.20 46-50 3.55 5.20 6.50 7.80 8.95 






