On The Inside 

1 
SMC sister college Dun­barton folds 

1
•
. . • page 4 Irish Sports ..• pages 11 & 12 
serving the notre dame ·st. mary's community
Vol. VII No. 36 Friday, October 27, 1972 
Details block cease-fire; 
Kissinger seeks settlement 
From Wire Reports 
lcl 1972 The New York Times 
Saigon. South Vietnam, Friday, Oct. 27­The South Vietnamese foreign ministry issued a statement this morning that said South Vietnam is "Ready to accept a cease-fire" but "would never accept a political settlement which goes against the interests and aspirations of the 17 million South Vietnamese people." 
The statement. in reaction to yesterday's Hanoi radio broadcast saying that the United States and North Vietnam had agreed to a cease-fire to begin October 31, was the first official reaction in Saigon to disclosures about the recent negotiations. 
The statement appeared to be designed to emphasize that the main obstacle in the way of an accord and a cease-fire was President Nguyen Van Thieu's doubts about what the details of the political settlement would be, not any general objection. 
Hanoi Radio's statement yesterday was vague and somewhat sketchy en those details, and the Saigon statement said "This is just a North Vietnamese communist trick to create suspicion between the Republic and our U.S. ally and tocreatepublic pressures for an early end to the bombing and blockade." 
The statement said, "The South Vietnamese people's right to self-determination should be respected in any solution to the Vietnam War." 
The terms of the agreement reached by the United States and North Vietnam was an­nounced yesterday, and included a reproach of Washington for not having stuck to the agreed timetable. 
The reproach, in very moderate terms, was included in a government statement broadcast over Hanoi radio, in which North Vietnam said it was "taking the responsibility" of informing Vietnamese and world opinion on the current 
state of negotiations. 
Hanoi said the two sides reached agreement 
on Oct. 9 on a date for the ending of United 
States bombing and mining of North Vietnam, 
for the initialling of the agreement in Hanoi and 
for the official signing ceremony in Paris by the 
foreign ministers of the two countries. 
However, according to the North Vietnamese 
statement, the United States several times 
asked for these dates to be put back. Then, last 
Sunday, (Oct. 22), Hanoi and Washington 
reached an agreement "fo • ending the war and 
re-establishing peace in Vietnam." 
On Monday, however, according to the Hanoi 
government, the Americans cited difficulties 
with the Saigon government and asked for a 
continuation of the talks. 
"This way of acting engenders a very serious 
situation, threatening the signing of the 
agreement," the statement said. 
According to Hanoi Radio, the timetable of 
the peace negotiations to date went as follows: 
1) Oct. 9. The North Vietnamese accepted an American proposal providing for a halt to American bombing and mining of North Vietnam from Oct. 18, and the initialling of a protocal document in Hanoi Oct. 19. The official signature of the agreement was set for Paris on Oct. 26. The signature was to be carried out by the United States Secretary of State and the North Vietnamese Foreign Secretary. 
2) Oct. 11. The North Vietnamese agreed to 'ln American request to modify this timetable. 
Reactions from 


the two camps 
<c> 1972 New York Times 


Thieu: Ready to accept cease-fire, with reservations 
The new schedule provided for: 
Oct. 21. An end to United States bombing and mining of the North. Oct. 22. Signature of the protocol in Hanoi. Oct. 30. Foreign ministers sign agreement in 
Paris. 

3) According to Hanoi, the Americans asked for a further delay on Oct. 20. The third schedule, again accepted by the North Viet­namese, was as follows: 
Oct. 22. Halt to United States bombing and demining of ports. 
Oct. 24. Signing of protocol in Hanoi. 
Oct. 31. Official signature of agreement in 
Paris. 

Presidential aide Henry A. Kessinger will go to Paris soon to resume negotiations with North Vietnamese representatives on final steps in peace settlement, according to informed sources in Washington. 
Kissinger, who returned Monday night from five days of intensive talks with South Viet­namese President Nguyen Van Thieu, is only awaiting the return from Hanoi of Politburo Member Le Due Tho. 
Tho left Paris almost two weeks ago to confer with members of the ruling North Vietnamese group about the framework of a settlement already reached with Kissinger. 
The new Kissinger talks with Tho and the North Vietnamese negotiator in Paris, Minister Xuan fhuy, could come early next week, the sources suggested. 
Kissinger is preparing to give his first public briefing here, unofficially set for tomorrow on the course of his overall nE-gotiations. Yesterday President Nixon had morning and afternoon sessions with Kissinger to decide just how much to make public, as well as to discuss the next steps of the delicate negotiations with both Hanoi and Saigon. 
Although the final settlement is not wrapped up, Washington sources maintain that agreement is within sight. Yesterday Clark Macgregor, Cahrman of the Committee for the Re-Election of the President, who conferred with Kissinger on Tuesday, said of the peace moves: 
"There is an inexorable course to these events which will produce a cessation of hostilities in this calendar year ... Nov. 7 has no relation to our efforts." 
u.s. -Hanoi agreement outlined 
<C> 1972 New York Times 

Hanoi, Oct. 26 (Agence France-Presse)-The nine points of the agreement Hanoi said it had drawn up with Washington are: 
1) The United States respects the independence, .~vereignty and territorial integrity of Vietnam as was recognized in the 1954 Geneva Agreements. 
2) Within 24 hours of the signing of the cease-fire agreement covering the whole of South Vietnam, the United States will put an end to all military activity and cease the bombing of North Vietnam and the mining of its ports. 
The withdrawal of U.S. forces and their allies will take place within 60 days. 
Both parties in South Vietnam--the Saigon regime and the National Liberation Front-will not re-equip with war material except to replace destroyed material and will not ask for help of any advisers. 
3) The two South Vietnamese protagonists will exchange their prisoners parallel with the withdrawal of U.S. troops. 
4) The people of South Vietnam must decide their political future themselves by way of truly free general elections under international control so as to achieve "reconciliation and national concorde." 
An administrative body called the National council of National Conciliation and Concorde will be formed compo~ed of three e9ual. parts"so as to put int~ operation the apphcation by the Provisional Revolutionary Government and the government of the South Vietnamese Republic of the sighned aggrements and to organize general elections. 
5) Reunification of Vietnam will be progressivlely realized "by peaceful methods." 
6) A quadripartite military liaison commission and a bip~rtite m~itary commission will be set up, as well as an mternabonal control and surveillance commission An international conference to work out Vietna~ guarantees will meet 30 days after the signing of the 
agreement.. 

7) The problems of Laos and Cambodia will be settled on the basis. of. the 1954 and 1962 Geneva agreements 
8) Commissions to set up new relations between North Vietnam and the United States will be created They will help to ''dress the wounds of war and build up the Democratic Republic of Vietnam and Indochina after the war." 
. 9) This agreement will come into effect after its signature by the North Vietnamese foreign minister and U.S. Secretary of State in Paris on Oct. 31 next. 
In Paris, the chief American delegate to the peace talks, William Porter, protested today against the North Vietnamese publication of the terms of the cease-fire agreement, terming it an "unfortunate violation" of agreement made. 
IIHD~~ ll.llllllllll_lllllllmiiUIJIIIIIHIIDt\ 
More war ne.ws 
North Viets ask other countrielt 1e pressure the US .••• page 9 
Peace negotiations have no 

effect on war in Laos 1 ••• page 9. 
11111111111111111111111lllmlllllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJJJIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUUIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIII 
Iowa City, Iowa, Oct. 26--Sen. George Washington, Oct. 26 -Official in­McGovern expressed hope here today dications that a peace settlement is now that the Nixon Administration's con­within President Nixon's reach broughtfidence of an imminent settlement of the joy today to his political strategists, who Vietnam War was well founded. have spent a trying 10 days defendingBut he refused, in a carefully worded themeselves against charges of politicalspeech to some 15,000 people on the espionage and searching for a fresh burst 
campus of the University of Iowa, to of good news. credit the Nixon administration for the The general feeling among politicalprospect of reace, saying that those who observers here was that Henry A. had opposed the war deserved "much of Kissinger's optimistic diplomatic
the credit," forcasts th1s morning would do nothing to 
McGovern learned of the White House damage Nixon's chances in November in briefing on the Vietnam peace situation part by neutralizing or at least draw.ingby Dr. Henry Kissinger, President public attention from the recurrent ane­
Nixon's national security adviser, as he to Republicans-troublesome allegations was leaving Detroit. · about White House's campaign
Despite the efforts of his senior staff techniques.members to appear to take the possibility Nixon's strategists seemed confideni of a settlement in stride, their faces were today that h~ coulC. build upon the voters' serious and it seemed that they were traditional reb; ctance to switch worried about the political effects of presidents in mid ;tream as long as he Kissinger's announcement. maintains a sense of forward progress. 
the observer Friday, October 27, 1972
2 

r 
• ~ 
warld briefs 
(c) 1!172 New York Times 

."'{· 
Washlngton-"Peace is at hand." Those words were spoken Thursday by Henry A. Kissinger, who broke the administration's official silence on the recent intensive peace talks to declare that a final agreement could be reached in only one more negotiating session with the North Vietnamese. Kissinger, who confirmed a broadcast by Radio Hanoi that the two sides had reached over-all agreement on a nine-point plan to end the war, disputed Hanoi's contention that the agreement required the United States to sign the accord by next Tuesday, Oct. 31. 
Paris-North Vietnamese and Vietcong delegates picked up the theme and demanded that the United States observe what they called a firm agreement to sign a Vietnam cease-fire there next Tuesday. Although Hanoi's chief delegate questioned whether private negotiation would continue if the United States did not sign the agreement as it stood, the delegates said they would attend the 165th session of the formal Paris peace talks next Thursday. 
Vientiane--The war in Laos is apparently being fought as bitterly as ever, according to military reports that indicate that the fighting is especially intense in the Plaine Des Jarres in northern Laos and in and around the towns of the country's southern tip. 
Washington--The official indications that peace in Vietnam may be near brought joy to Republican strategists who have spent a trying 10 days defending themselves against charges of political sabotage. 
Huntington, W. Va.--President Nixon told an airport rally in Hun­tington that he was confident the difficulties blocking a Vietnam cease-fire "can and will be worked out. I can say to you in con­fidence," the President told the crowd, "that we shall succeed in achieving our objective, which is peace with honor and not peace with surrender." 


Maureen Lathers elected to SLC 
By Patti Shea woman race, Lathers, a Badin Staff Reporter resident, received 78 votes, Diane McDonnel, 60, and Jan Waltman, Notre Dame women students 54, according to tabulations by have selected Maureen Lathers, Dennis Etienne, student govern­sophomore American Studies ment vice-president. Lathers will major, as the first woman fill a tPmporary one-year SLC post. representative on the Student Life The position was created following Council. a proposal from Badin and Walsh In yesterday's final three-hall governments that a woman 
Will view Kiang exhibit 

Tai-wan a:mbassador to visit Saint MaryIs 
The Ambassador to the United States for the Republic of China <Taiwan), will visit the College to view the paintings and calligraphy collection of Dr. Susan Kiang. currently on exhibit in the College's Moreau Art Gallery. 
Ambassador Shen, who will be visiting the Michiana area the week-end of October 27-29, 1972 will be honoured at a reception on Sunday, October 29, 1972 at 8:00 a.m., in the Moreau Art Gallery. The Chinese Consul General from Chicago, Illinois, and his wife will accompany Ambassador Shen. At that time, Dr. Kiang will donate 
one  of  her  paintings  to  Saint  
Mary's College.  
Those  attending  the  reception  

from the College are: Dr. Edward 

L. Henry, President, Saint Mary's College, and Mrs. Henry, Mr. John 
J. Hof, Assistant to the President, Dr. Jack J. Detzler, Special Assistant to the President, Dr. William. A. Hickey, Vice President for Academic Affairs, and Mrs. Hickey, Mr. Jason D. Lindower, Jr., Vice President for Fiscal Affairs, and Mrs. Lindower, Sister 
M. Basil Anthony O'Flynn, C.S.C., Vice President for Develop­ment,Dr. Mary Alice Cannon, Vice President ·for Student Affairs, Sister M. Rose Ellen Morrissey, Chairwoman, Saint Mary's College Art Department and the College's Art Department Faculty and Staff, Saint Mary's College Chinese Foreign Exchange Students. 
s H u L A 
GOOD AFTERNOON
H 

SHULA'S 
Celebrate early for NO'su Win over TCU 
Do it with two great bands, bar, whatever 
L 
A 
, 

•.JVue Cfu~
• 

2802 SOUTH 11th ROAD NILES, MICHIGAN 49120 
Phone 68:!-4350 
s H u L A 
'S 
H 
u 
L 


A 'S 
an •mpu• tadar 
fri. 
4:15 p.m.-seminar, "recent development In the economics of technological change," hayes­healey center 
4:30 p.m.-seminar, "reactions of the nitrosonium and nitronium ions," 123 niewland 
8:00  p.m.-meeting,  ella,  get  together,  smc  
clubhouse  
8:30 p.m.-concert, steven stills, ace  
10:30  p.m.-concert,  promenade,  smc  cof­ 
feehouse  
sat.  

7, 9 & 11 p.m.-movie, rachel, rachel, holy cross hall 
10:00 a.m.-race, nd crew vs alumni, mishawaka marina 
sun. 
2:00 p.m.-meeting, Brademas and Newman, all local candidates, flanner pit 
3:00 p.m.-meeting, michiana area historians, library lounge 
7:00 
p.m.-meeting, women's caucus, badin hall chapel 

7:00 
p.m.-movie, mother teresa of calcutta, library auditorium 


7:30 p.m.-lecture, "a christian exploration: 
nixon or mcgovern? washington hall all weekend-shakespeare marathon, outside 
law building 

The Observer Is publistlect dally during the college semester ex­cept vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S8 per semester (14 per year) from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
student be included on the SLC. 

Transferring to Notre Dame after Michigan State, Lathers considered her previous ex­perience an asset to her job on the SLC. 
"I feel I know what real coeducation is like," she said, "after my last year at a representative on the SLC but as a student representative." 
Communication with students was also cited by Lathers as a necessary goal. "Communication will be a big part of this job," she said, "communication with both the girls and the guys." 
coeducational school." 
Return ENGAGEMENT ....

Lathers, who lived in a coeducational dorm at Michigan State plans to concentrate her 
Promenade

efforts on the campus life com­mittee of the SLC. The committee 
St. Marys Snack Shop

will examine housing alternatives for men and women students next year. 

Friday the 27th 1 0-1 am 

Noting the importance of "the SLC "listening to a female 
Following Stephen Stills Concert 

student's viewpoint," Lathers stressed, "I don't want to be 
Admission 25' Dancing & Entertainment 
regarded as the female 
NO SERVICE 
OR CARRYING 





CHARGE! 
Remember this ... when you use the exclusive Campus Shop 
Way to Buy you can purchase unlimited amounts of apparel 
and accessories and pay one-third in January, one-third in 
February and one-third in March ... and you pay not one cent 
in service or carrying charges! There is never any added 
cost with this unique way of buying. Open your account soon. 
What could be easier? 

on the campus, Notre Dame 
Friday, October 27, 1972 the observer 
3 


LaFortune survey 
j
will seek ideas for renovation 
by Tom Drape addit_ion of a studen~ bar would depend Staff Reporter heavily on legal and umversity ramifications. Consideration depends on the Indiana 
drinking age being lowered to eighteen. 

A decision to conduct a student survey on The present committee members include 
proposals for LaFortune student center was co-chairmen Jim McDermott and Terry 
made by the Student Center Committee last Skeehan. Other members are Dave Caruso 
night. Dan Schipp, Dennis Etienne, Jim Clarke: 
Terming the eventual remodeling a Susan Darin, Jerry Lutkus, Bob Stucker, Rod . "From fairest creatures we desire increase," With these words "definite reality," co-chairman Jim Braye and Mary Ann Gillespie. the second Shakespeare reading marathon began yesterday. These McDermott listed co-op stores, smaller Describing the hopes of the committee as people offered their talents in the early afternoon. lounges, expanded dining area in the Huddle real and very optimistic, McDermott em­Some of the weekend highlight include readings by football and a possible bar as proposals already phasized that any suggestions or proposals players AI Samuels, Eric Penick and John Dampeer: guest ap­before the committee. are welcomed and encouraged. Ideas may be 1 pearances by Fr. Hesburgh, basketballcoach Digger Phelps and The survey, which will be circulated next made to Jim McDermott at 3348. 
l 
I 
English Professor, Paul Rathburn. In addition, SBP Bob Kersten week by one of the honor fraternities, is and Observer ecitor John Abowd will read Romeo and Juliet at 1:00 looking for any possible suggestions "to today. utilize each inch of LaFortune," said McDermott. Architecture students will
Election happenings handle . preliminary plans with sophomore classes entering sketches this semester and senior's submitting plans next semester. 
McDermott cited the interest and support
Muskie co~ning October 30 
shown by administrators. Robert Ackerman, Director of Student Activities, is in active . . .. ... . . .. . . . . . . . . . . ... . .••• , ••• , support of the rejuvenation.
Maine Senator Edmund S. . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . 
Muskie will visit the Third . . ... . . . . .. .. . ... ..~ ....<. LaFortune was dedicated in 1954 and of­
···~····~~;~·;···~·. ..~~-~. ~. ~·;;···· 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I 

• • • • fered perfect facilities for the size and needs 
Congressional District on . . .. . .. .. . . . ..... . 
• • • • • of the student body. Since then no majorMonday, October 30, to campaign for Congressman 
state races, thus giving Vincent DeSantis and Prof remodeling has taken place. McDermott John Brademas (D-Ind.). 
students a chance to meeet John Houck will explore ho~ stated "the only preconception we have is 
In announcing the visit those people who are going to a Christian could support that we .~ave a. b~ilding a_n~ a good deal ?f today, Citizens for be on the ballot. . either President Nixon or s'!pport_. Bmldmg additions are not m Brademas Chairman, John Each candidate will be George McGovern. Father dJscus.sJOn. . _ . Armstrong, noted that the introduced ~nd will speak for Toohey, Director of Campus An Immediate concern of the committee Senator and Congressman a few mmutes, and the Ministry explains that the regarding all night hours for the ,~t'!dent will make stops in five major session will then break down two men' will not engage in cent_e~. ~as ter!Ded _as a VIable 
into informal discussions the usual highly-emotional poss1b1hty for the Immediate future. Thepopulation centers of the 
'!bird District-South Bend, between the candidates and debate. "We want Michigan City, LaPorte, st_udents. <Refreshments 1s o m e t h i n g m o r e Elkhart and Mishawaka. Will be served.) significant," he notes. "Two 
A tentative schedule for Mike Hess, one of the men, who have looked the busy day of campaign organizers of ·the event, seriously at their Christian activities includes breakfast explained the reason behind commitment, are going to at the LaPorte Holiday Inn, it: "Usually students voting ' measure the two candidates lunch in Mishawaka with here at N.D. go into the polls against deeply personal prominent civic leaders, "a with a knowledge of the faith. For what reasons, Polish Wedding Supper" at national candidates, and following upon the Gospel, the West Side Democratic perhaps a few top local can one vote for Nixon or Club in South Bend, and a races. On Sunday, those McGovern-this is what we late evening rally in students will have a chance want to explore." Michigan City. to meet candidates for many There will be a fifteen 
A detailed schedule for the of the lesser publicized minute presentation by each 
October 30th visit will be races, and will thus be able man, with five minutes for 
released shortly. to make a more informed their response to one 
choice on election day." another, following by 
audience participation. 

Candidates here 
~------------~;-==========================~ 
on· Sunday 'Christian vote' debate Sunday
Notre Dame and St. Mary's students, as well as "How are you going to interested faculty and staff, vote, Chri_stian?" is the who will be voting in In-question the Office of diana, will have a chance to Campus Ministry· wants to "meet the candidates" this present to the Notre Dame Sunday, October 29th, at 2 community. p.m., in the Flanner con-Believing that a decision versation pit (main lobby). for voting is too often made 
Democratic Congressman without careful, reflective John Brad~mas and· consideration of Christian Repl1:blican Congression~l principles, Campus Ministry cand1~ate Don Newman ~Ill is presenting a program headlme the event, bemg entitled: A Christian Ex­sponsored by "Concerned ploration: Nixon or Students at Notre Dame and McGovern? St_. Mary's." Also appearing On Sunday evening, Oc­w_Iil be most of the can-tober 29, at 7:30 p.m., in d1dates for local, county, and Washington Hall, Prof. 
A Weekend in Christian Living 
Notre Dame  St. Mary's  
away from the dorms  a time for yourself  
away from the stress  a time for others  
away from the comoetition  a time to stop time  

·:..~ people silenc 

"~,~;~.. A Lodge in Michigan 
,~e 
volleyball 
music 

Friday Nov. 3rd 6 pm to Sunday Nov. 5th 1 pm 
transportation provided
Sr. Kathy Reichert-4069 
Cost $5 -includes meals
Colleen Mooney-4871 and lodging Fr. Ned Reidy-3353 or 5392 

McGovern 
Chicago Torchlight 
Parade 
WEDNESDAY, NOV 1 
SIGN UP FOR BUSES IN TOM DOOLEY ROOM LAFORTUNE 
FRIDAY OCT. 27 
$5.00 
Sponsored by ND-SMC Com­mittee For McGovern -Shriver 
Main~ Church Sunday Masses 
5:15p.m. Sat.  Fr. Robert Griffin, C.S.C.  
9:30a.m. Sun.  Fr. David Schlaver, C.S.C.  
10:45 a.m.  Sun.  Fr. Karl Last  
12:15 p.m. Sun.  Fr. William Toohey, C.S.C.  

"Evening Prayer" vespers at 4:30p.m. Sunday. Confessions are heard before weekday masses and from 7:00to 7:30p.m. Mon. through Sat. 

SOCIAL COMMISSION PRESENTS A TRADITIONAL FRENZIED BRAWL 
i.e. an 


ARMORY PARTY!! 
Relive those good old rolling-over falling-down days of the FIFTIES at the 
Hot Rods & Bobby Socks HOP (S) 
your ticket entitles you to 10 ROUNDS with your hosts BUD & MICK 
Bop to the tunes of Flint and the Jon Potter-Music shows FRIDAY NOVEMBER 3rd -8:30-12:30 
at the SOUTH BEND ARMORY 
(free bus service will be available) $2.50 per person 
TICKETS ON SALE TODAY 3:00 FIESTA LOUNGE 


Crasslakes



THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER John Abowd Dan Thornton 
A Letter 

Editor-in-Chief Business Manager 
News: 283-1715 EditoriaI: 283-8661

Don Ruane Joe Butler 

~, ;aseph abeII
Business: 283-7471

Executive Editor Advertising Manager 
Friday, October 27, 1972 

Dear Mom and Dad, 


It's Appalling 
It's about time! some 600 people. You just cost the dining 
It's about time someone started to hall $216.36. clean up the dining halls. Yesterday, Cost list the Food Services Advisory Committee That comes to $672,50. Not bad for one announced their plans to try and clean up day. Has that aroused your curiosity the mess that results after every meal in any? the Notre Dame dining halls. Here's a. look at the cost list of food 
Problem of waste items served at the dining halls: 
The mess is a gross waste of food that Orange juice 5.5 cents glass shouldn't happen at a place where young Cookies 4 cents each (5 cents for men and women come to dine everyday. 
butter cookies)But it does. It's a waste that reflects Sweet rolls 8 cents each 
badly on the Notre Dame student. Pie (cherry) 12 cents each servingThe din;ng hall bears a definite Roast Beef 43 cents a servingresemblance to a rubbish heap every Swiss steak 47 cents a servingnight around 6: 30 and it's appalling. Bacon 4 cents a slice 

Beyond the Waste Shrimp 47 cents without secondsBut when you get beyond the ugly sight Bread 1 cent a sliceof the wasted food, you find a reper-Butt Steak 84 cents a servingcussion that's worse. And that's the French Fries 21 cents a poundproblem of cost. 

Do you have any idea how much that That's just some of the food. It's not extra glass of milk that you leave on your much per serving, but consider the cost tray costs? 5 cents. Hell that's not much when you're serving upwards of 6000 right? Well, let's say that you, one of 4000 people. Then it becomes an expensive people who leave two glasses of milk proposition. unfinished on a particlular day. If your Think of this next time you take math agrees with mine, it comes to $400. something that you're not sure you're 
OK? Well, what if you and 400 others going to finish. Because it it costs the take a piece of blueberry pie that you dining hall more, you know who's gonna decide not to finish. 401 pieces of pie at 14 feel the cost in the long run. Right... you! cents a serving comes to $56.14. Let's quit wasting the food and clean up 
How about one more? Go get another the dining halls. pork chop and then don't eat it along with Jerry Lutkus 111111111111111111111111111 IIIIIII!1111 111111 Ill111111111111111111111 IIIII11111111111111llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 
Letter . •• 

... on birth control 
Editor: that were "mistakenly" brought to put it in proper perspective
This is a rebuttal of Bob Higgins' into the world. Did you stop and maybe then you will begin to have article in the Observer of October think in your frantic pace for a better outlook on life. I hope, like 25th. abortion and contraceptives that you, that the Administration 
What a fresh and comforting your parents could just as easily listens to you very soon and that thought--having a Birth Control have been in a stuation trying to they will attempt to lead that and Venereal Disease Center on exterminate you if they had lived closed and one-track mind of yours campus. You've made it sound as by your standards. Or better yet, out of its hold. though the whole campus is on the maybe they could have been Inclosing may I say that you talk verge of a ·nervous breakdown if fortunate to have had a clinic to about grabbing the bull by the they don't get to a clinic soon. turn to and they would never have horns. Your whole column was the What makes you think everyone had to worry about you at all. At biggest piece of bull anyone has possesses such low and flimsy any rate, if your appeal fails, I'm ever tried to swallow. morals. (You are including sure that anyone would be proud to Is your mind open to all sidof this youself in this aren't you'?> Maybe give you a lift up town to the clinic subject. We'll see if it is when this after the clinic is set up, it will lead for such a nobel cause as yours. letter appears in the Observer. the way in having an obstetric Your right baby, sex is no longerward set up in the infirmary and a secret subject and shouldn't be. maybe even an adoption service But you sound like a kid who just Sinbcerely, for the unwanted little "creatures" discovered it. When you are able Theresa Ferro 
another message from sorin 
T.M. HESBURGH CSC NOTRE DAME IN 

AM RESTING HORSES IN CUTBANK, MONT. STOP FELLOW NAMED NICOLAIDES HAS OFFERED PARA-FOIL FOR REST OF JOURNEY STOP PLEASE PREPARE EX-OFFICIO SEAT ON FELLOWS, TRUSTEES, ACADEMIC COUNCIL, SLC, FACULTY SENATE, WOMEN'S CAUCUS, AAUP BOARD, HALL PRESIDENTS COUNCIL AND CAMPUS TRAFFIC COMMITTEE. 
SORIN 

Well, I finally got the big yellow envelope yesterday. You know, the really thick one, stamped IMPORTANT PAPERS from the County Clerk's office? 
You wouldn't believe how many papers are in that thing. There's a book with no less than eleven pages of offices and candidates in Dallas County, most of which and whom I've never heard before. There's also some constitutional amendments in the bac·{ that I wish I had more information on what they involve. 
There's also three pagts of instructions I probably won't understand and a fancy computer card I'm supposed to play keypunch on and sign. 
All of these make for a pretty large package, one that I really con­sider a great privilege to have. As you know, I didn't vote in the primary, so this'll be my first time, and believe me, I'm a little ex­cited. 
But recently, a problem has come up for me. 

In your last letter, you told me you had watched George McGovern on TV and didn't understand how anybody could vote for him. I suppose I agree, for reasons I'll mention later. You confirmed your support for Mr. Nixon, a support I have maintained also, in spite of incredible opposition in the college environment here. But recently, I must admit, I have been having quite a few doubts about the President. 
Now, I suppose that's what the McGovern people like to hear. Their best ~elling point is dissatisfaction with the incumbent, a selling point that IS always at the top of the list of anyone running against an in­cumbent. But I want tomake myself understood: I cannot and do not support Senator McGovern. His platform and original nomination was o~ very. shaky grounds. From the beginning of his campaign, he has btlled htmself as the people's candidate, and has promptly changed his stand on nearly all the issues to fit what the people say they want. He very exploitively rides the crest of the new youth vote by proclaiming himself the peace candidate, and swears he'll get the United States as far from Indochina as possible. And after that, his one issue, is taken care of, what then? The country will suffer under a ridiculous economic policy, a poor at best foreign policy, and very weak-willed leadership. 
No, George McGovern cannot preside over this country. He is just not qualified for the job. So who's left? Mr. Nixon. And there's where the problem lies. 
Up until recently, I've admired Mr. Nixon's tactics. I was like nearly every one else and was shocked when he bombed North Viet­nam, but I could see his reasoning. Sure, the United States should get out of the war, but I just cannot see leaving South Vietnam so abruptly that it is at the mercy of the North. Mr. Nixon's policy of gradual, but positive, withdrawal seems most sensible to me, and I'd like to see it continued. His foreign policy is superb, and his domestic policy, while not outstanding, has been passable. 
But now, I don't know. While his extra-America activities are laudible, though the timing has begun to look a bit suspicious, his in­tra-America actions are beginning to bother me. He has become an almost spiteful President. He has turned down important legislature on welfare reform, education, and consumer protection. Yet, I read newspaper stories of his setting aside so many millions for a new type of reconnaisance plane or submarine, or an update on some kind of weapon. The action that struck home the quickest was a couple of weeks ago when he presented his new budget to Congress. He then purposely held a very important bill on pollution until their vote on his budget had been completed. When they turned him down, he promptly vetoed their bill. Thus vital ecological legislature suffered because of what looks like political revenge. That's too petty for the office of the President. 
So. there's the choice as I have it now: a very wishy-washy Prestdent, or a petty one, and I can't say which I'd rather have. 
Recently, a couple of professors had a debate on Nixon-McGovern. One brought up a point that most people vote against a candidate in­stead of for his opponent. I agree. The McGovern peaceniks are voti!lg agai!lst a. ~arlike Nixon. The Nixon homebodies are voting agamst an mdecisive McGovern. Both figure they're voting for the lesser of the two evils. But what do you do when the two evils are almost equal? 
See you at Christmas. 
Love, 
Joe. 
\ 
the observer 
Nite Editor: Joe Abell Ass't Nite Editor: Maria Gallagher Layout: Bill Brink, Marlene Zloza, Mike Baum Day Editor: Bi.l Sohn Picture Screener: Jerome Phillips Typists: Dennis Anastast>ff, Dave Rust, Mary 
Romer Nite Controller: Rob Barringer 
Editorials printed in The Ob­servPr reflect the opinion of th writer on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial com­ment. 


Friday, October 27, 1972 
the observer 
5 

diiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii-IIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUI-UIIIIIUUIIIUIIUIUIIIIIIIIJIIIIIUIIIUIIUIWDI 
Now claims twelve-point lead
Poll Results 

If the election was held tomorrow would you vote for: 



McGovern pulls ahead
All Those Those who have Respondents · Registered voted before 

McGovern 46.4 50.0 58.8 Nixon 34.8 37.5 31.4 Schmitz .s .6 .0 Other .5 .6 .0 
in second campus poll
Undecided 8.9 10.0 7.8 Not voting 8.3 1.9 2.0 
51 by John Abowd issue of "corruption" in the Nixon awninistrationSample size 180 160 
.Editor-in-chief was the key point. Over 58 percent of the respon­George McGovern has taken a 12 point lead in the dents who indicated that they 'intended to vote for second election poll conducted for The Observer by McGovern said the alleged corruption in the Nixon 
Are you registered to vote? Yes--90 No.. JO Ominicron Delta Epsilon, the economics honors administration was a significant factor in their society. decision.
Did the state in which you are registered have a 
presidential preference primary? Yes--71 No..29 A random sample of 180 students at Notre Dame Other major issues 
were interviewed during the week of Oct. 19 to Oct. Did you vote in the presidental preference 24. The interviews were conducted by phone. Over three quarters of the McGovern supporters primary? Yes..46.4 No..53.6 Omnicron Vice President Larry Velcheck saw his Vietnam positions as a significant influence. 
supervised the execution of the surbey. Nixon's strongest point was his trips to China and If you are planning to vote by absentee ballot, Yes..70 No.. J6.6 Accuracy check Russia. Only a small percentage of the respondents have you requested the ballot? Not voting In the first survey Nixon held a 45 to 41 lead over did not believe that one of the listed reasons was a 
absentee .. J3.7 McGovern at Notre Dame. Over both ND and St. significant determinant of their decision to supportFor those who indicated that they would vote Mary's Hixon initially held a 50 to 37lead. SMC was one candidate. for McGovern: not polled last week because of the hospitalization of 
the SMC poll coordinator. A defused issue? 
Do you feel any of the following significantly 
In order to check the significance of the trend two
influenced your choice of George McGovern? The latest poll attempeted to determine the
questions were asked on the second poll that were 
..his Vietnam policy 78.6 current split over choices of action in Vietnam . 
also asked on the initial sampling. The question: 
..his tax reform policy 41.7 Although the issue id potentially defused by the
"Are you registered to vote?" drew 89.4 percent
..his status as the democratic party nominee 32.1 recent announcemennt of a settlement of the war,
affirmative replies three weeks ago and 90 percent
.. his charge of corruption in the Nixon ad­the greatest percentage of the respondents sup­
affirmative replies last week. 
ministration 58.3 ported unilateral withdrawal within 90 days.Last week only registered voters were asked if The final poll which will apperar in next Friday's
they intended to to vote absentee. 86.3 percent of the Observer· will repeat the presidential preferenceFor those who indicated that they would vote 
for Nixon: registered voters indicated that they were voting question and will include another sampling of absentee. Seventy percent of the students plan­opinion on the Vietnam question. In addition, the
Do you feel any of the following significantly ning to vote absentee had already requested blalots. sample will be stratified by classes.
influenced your choice of Richard Nixon? ..his overall domestic policy record during his 
These figures compare closely to the results of the 
first presidential term 46.0 
first surbey. When all potential voters were asked if 
.. his Vietnam policy 63.0 
they planned to vote in Indiana or in their home 
..his trips to China and Russia 70.3 
state, 81.8 percent indicated that they planned to
.. his status as the republican party nominee 28.6 • PUTMORE •
vote absentee. Reasons for the McGovoern gains Since similarities between the first and second
In U.S. Vietnam policy do you favor: 
surbeys make the probability of random error in
--Complete, immediate, unilateral withdrawal 10.2 



SIZZLE

either set of results unlikely, several external
of air and land forces 
.. unilateral withdrawal within 90 days 34.7 events may have provoked the McGovern increase. 
IN YOUR LIFE 

.. withdrawal pending release of U.S. POW's 25.6 Both Senator Edward Kennedy and Vice --Withdrawal pending a negotiated settlement 27.3 Presidential candidate Sargent Shriver spoke on 
T-Bone ..........$2.69 

..None of these 2.3 campus since the last survey. In both speeches the All figures percentages 
Sirloin ....•......$'1.89 
Rib-Eye ..........$ 1.49

lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll Chopped Sirloin .. $ 1.49 
Sizzling and served with baked potato, tossed salad, hot buttered roll. 

SMC Planning Committee to meet 
by Mary Janca thus far. Open discussion follows our task forces to come up with p.m. 
Staff Reporter every report. facts in these various areas as we The Planning Committee is a Sr. M. Rosaleen, will begin this need them." newly established organization The Planning Committee of informative session and speak on "The basic philosophy that we're which, hopefully, according to Dr. Saint Mary's College will meet on her committee's work on values coming to in our area committee," Horning, will effect change in the 

PONDEROSA 

Friday night, October 27, in the and goals. Kern Mulaney, dean of concluded Mulaney, "is the College. Its twenty six members 
Board Room of Le Mans Hall to students, and chairman of the Area searching for a more diversified ~epresent the administration, 
STEAK HOUSE 

hear the progress made by the Committee on Student life, will student body." Iacuity, and student body. Under various area committees on their discuss the accomplishments of The area committee on this committee, are the area 
52627 U.S. 31 N. 

research into sites of reform and the twelve task forces which are Academic Concerns, headed by committees, whose chairmen and change. currently investigating several Dr. Rita Cassidy, a member of the vice chairmen are also members 
ond 

After an opening prayer by Sr. aspects of student life. Her speech History Department, will present of the Planning Committee.. Katherine Reichert, Dr. Donald will resemble a "progress report" the results of its investigations. Proposals and information 
tt.,wn & Couat~y 

Horning, Chairman of the planning she stated, as "we're still for­The possibility of St. Mary's in­gathered through the Planning Committee, will present an in­mulating ideas." troducing a nursing school will be Committee "go to Dr. Henry ... then 
Shopping Ctr. 

troductory commentary. The Some topics included in her talk discussed, along with several other to the appropriate Board of minutes of· the last meeting will will be campus life and potential academic reforms. Regents committee, and from 
Open 11 A.M. to 9 P.M. Daily.

then be read by Mr. John J. Hof, recreation's search for new Following a break, Mr. Donald there, of course, to the Board of 
Fri. and Sat. to 10 P.M.

Secretary of the Planning Com­recreational facilities, the day Miller, chairman for the area Regents," stated Dr. Horning. 

mittee, and followed by a speech students committee's in­committee on Faculty Mfairs, and given by St. Mary's President, Dr. vestigation into better ways of Dr. Richard C. Pilger, chairman of Edward Henry. integrating students, and Student the area committee on Gover­
The chairmen of each area Life Committee's inquiries into nance, will each report on his committee will discuss the results community government, and committee's progress. Chairmen of their task forces' investigations alternate government policies. for the area commi tee on 
Other areas include Campus Physical Requirements, Dr. Jason Ministry, the Judicial Committee, D. Lindower, and for the area and the Hall Life Committee, committee on Development, Dr.
Kersten declares which is now investigating the M. Basil Anthony, will also discuss possibility of male visitation. their research. Mulaney explained her area An explanation of the timetable
'name the cat' committee by saying, "Our area and other business will conclude committee is dealing more with the meeting, which is expected to the philosophy, and then we ask adjourn at approximately 10:00

competition 
In keeping within character, 

LAKESIDE THEATRE presents 


Rachael, Rachael 
at Holy Cross Hall Auditorium 
Saturday Oct. 28 7, 9. 11 om Directed by Paul Newman 

Student Government announces a Namt> the Cat contest. 


STEPHEN STILLS 
The cat, which was given to student body president, R. Calhoun 
r.w.+JIJA.1-~,

Kersten, is currently without any name. The eat's name along with the participant's name and ad­
TONIGHT

dress should be submitted to Student Government by Friday, 
Showftme ~--8:30 sharp!

Nov. 3. Entries will be judges by T.C. 
Some Good Seats Ar~ Still
Treanor, newly appointed art director of Campus Ministry. Available At The at the 
Prizes will be awarded im­mediately after judging. First 
ACC Ticket Office

Prize will consist of an autographed map of Iowa (con­testant to supply map). Second Note: Casual dress is encouraged. prize will be an autographed copy of Jesse James "The Outlaw" by ...•presented by the ND Student Union.... Henry J. Walker. 

Dunbarton folds 





SMC last Holy Cross college 
by Maria Gallagher 

St. Mary's Editor Dunbarton College of the Holy Cross in Washington, D.C., has announced that it will close at the end of the 1972-72 school year due to a three million, five hundred thousand dollar debt. 
The decision was made by Dunbarton's Board of Trustees at their September 30 meeting, and a statement releasee to the press the following Monday. Dunbarton had been in financial straits for the last few years and last year alone operated at a $400,000 loss. This year a similar $400,000 to $500,000 loss is ex\)Ccted. 
The release stated that "after many months of serious study ... of all possible alternatives ... the Board announces with regret.. .that the college will close." It was signed by Sr. Katherine Francis Ford, chairman of the Board. She ts also chairman of Saint Mary's Board of Regents. 
The release explained that 'declining enrollment over the last ;everal years" coupled with 
·'rising operating costs created a 
deficit  which  made  the  decision  
inevitable."  
Although  financial  con­ 

siderations were foremost in the decision, the drop in enrollment was felt to be the key. An unidentified source close to the college cited several possible contributions to the decline: Washington's reputation as a "crime-ridden" city, especially since the shooting of MartinLuther King, which led many prospective students to turn to schools in "safer" northeastern cities; Dunbarton's decision not to go coed; and the expanding number of community colleges which have opened a much more inexpensive route to higher education. 
The announcement was a rather abrupt one for several members of the community. 
"I didn't even know how critical the situation was," admitted one prominent faculty member, who wished to remain anonymous. 
He felt that "a lack of will to continue" on the part of the sisters was largely responsible for the school's demise. 
"I believe that if a concentrated effort had been made on their part, in cooperation with the alumnae association and area businessmen, that the school could have been saved," he said. 
A spokesman at the president's office acknowledged that "an awful lot of people were sur­prised ... most of the students and some faculty members." . 
Sr. Anna Teresa Bayhouse, who spent 10 years at Dunbarton before coming to Saint Mary's this fall to 
No 0-C pennission at SMC next seznester 
by Bill Betz Observer Starr Reporter 

According to Donna Ayres, director of St. Mary's student housing, SMC upper classmen won't be able to move off~ampus next semester unless they per­sonally get an off~ampus student to fill their bed. 
She added that last Monday's decision was made because more students will be leaving the campus through graduation than will be entering through transfer. Ayres said "currently about seventy girls are living off~ampus and financially the college can't afford any more empty beds." However, she stated some ex­ceptions will be considered. 
This represents a change from the off~ampus policy stated in the Saint Mary's student handbook. That policy states: "Any student who is a junior or senior and over twenty-<>ne years of age may apply to live off~ampus by filing ap­plication with the housing office. Students under twenty-<>ne must have parental permission cards on file before the move may be made. Students over twenty-<>ne have automatic permission but are also required to register with the housing office. Students who have 


Ayres:  SMC cannot afford any  
more empty beds  
signed  a  room  contract  are  

responsible for filling their bed before they may move off­campus." 
In some cases, the housing director is able to make exceptions but this must be approved. For this academic year, students wishing to move off-campus second semester must notify the housing office by December 18, 1972. No permission will be granted after this date. 
"For next year the above stated policy will again hold," Ayres said. 
However arrangements must be made prior to the signing of room contracts and the spring room picks. 
MATINEE DAfLY abc GREAT STATES 
DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND 

AGEORGE ROY HILL· PAUL MONASH PRODUCTION 
SLAUGHTERHOUSE -FIVE .,.,,in, MICHAEL SACKS RON LEIBMAN VALERIE PERRINE 
Aun..mal Pothllt in TECHNICOLOR • 
Feature Times 
1:45-3: 45-5: 45 7:45-9:45 

chair the Department of Modern Languages, viewed the decision as anticlimactic in light of the situation of the past few years. 
"Anyone who was there in the last three years could see it coming," she claimed. 
"Everything depended on whether or not enough students could be attracted. The faculty made a very great effort.. .a committee was formed to recruit new students ... but their action came too late." 
Sr. Bayhouse believed that "the essential element for survival in small Catholic colleges today rests on the enthusiasm and cooperation between faculty members and administration." A number of faculty members became in­terested in building up Dunbarton, she noted, but only in the past few years, when it was already too late. 
Sr. Bayhouse reflected on the constructive attitude she had found at Saint Mary's, and believes that the maintenance of such an at­titude is vital to a stable in­stitution. She does not believe that Saint Mary's will fall victim to the wave of private colleges that are closing at the rate of one per week. 
President Edward Henry of Saint Mary's concurred. 
"Dunbarton's decision to close was purely one of economics," he said. "It was too small to operate economically... it was a quality institution and it is a shame it had to close. We will probably be getting a number of the staff and students here." 
There ·are no definite plans as yet for disposal of buildings or transfer of staff. The Board has appointed a committee to handle all proposals and suggestions on the matter. The president's office speculated that the sale of ac­cumulated assets would cover the deficit. Since the college is in­corporated, the debt is legally incurred by Dunbarton College rather than the Holy Cross order. 
Founded in 1935 and staffed by the Holy Cross sisters, Dunbarton had a much smaller enrollment than its "sister college," Saint Mary's, ranging from 450 to 500 students in its best years. The present enrollment is 325, a drop from 350 last year. 
Despite its small size, Dunbarton was in a comparable tuition bracket with Saint Mary's-­semester expenses ranged from $1700 to $1800. Its closure leaves Saint Mary's as the last Holy Cross college in the United States. Saint Mary's-of-the-Wasatch in Salt Lake City, Utah folded in 1959 after some 80 years of existence. Cardinal Cushing College in Boston, founded in 1952, closed last June. The concensus is that the 
same  fate  befell  all  three:  
declining  enrollment  vs.  rising  
operating costs.  

South Bend's Newest 
SPORT SHOP 




Life! 

MONEY SAVING COUPONS 

PIZZA "'"'""'"1":'25'"""''""""""'1===1111 
2.00 
For Any Small For Any Medium with one 

with one Ingredient Ingredient
I 
I 


V72 
5 
Try our luncheon special 99~ 
HUT 
111111111111111111111111111111111111111lllllllllllli 


3.00 ~ 
For Any Large 
with one 
Ingredient 

Mon thru Fri 

for any small pizza with one ingredient 11 :00 am -2:00 pm 
Pizza Hut No. 1

Good only at Lincolnway East 
288-6060 

EAT IN OR CARRY OUT SERVICE 
Student union invites you to spend an evening with 
YES 

NOVEMBER 18 --8:30 p.m. TICKETS: $5.50, 4.50. 2.75 
on sale today at the ACC ticket office (9-5) and the Student Union ticket office (3-5) 

I j 
j
Friday, October 27, 1972 the observer 7 4 
l 

RETURN FROM EXILE 

Manassas is a sleepy little railroad town in Northern Virginia where the Blue and Grey fought it out a couple of times a hun­dred years ago. In this dreary town last winter, Stepher Stills assembled his new band-an honest-to-goodness rock'n roll band. 
Memphis Horns? Strings? Singers? Soul Choruses? 
Nope. What we have here, friends, is an album by a man and his group that have mellowed together. Gone is the spottiness of Stills' first two albums, replaced by an expanded attempt that shows that Stephen Stills has FINALLY grown up, and finally realized exactly what in hell he's good at. He's stopped screwing around on record and really worked at a recording that shows once and for all that Stills is a first-rate musician and a damn good singer and songwriter. 
Side One, The Raven. is just outstanding, an uninterrupted suite of songs, pretty much straight ahead rock. The only failure here is "Jet Set", Steve's electric blues number, but "Jet Set" yields nicely to "Anyway", a full-blown rocker that would make a strong single, if Atlantic knew anything about singles. The side closes with "Both of Us <Bound to Lose)", co-written by ex-Byrd Chris Hillman, a lavishly adorned tune that makes it nicely. 
Side Two. The Wilderness. What's going on here, you ask? The music that follows is some of the best new country-bluegrass I've heard since early Poco or the Flying Burrito Bros. From "Fallen Eagle" to "So Begins the Task", everything on this side is just extraordinary. Listen to it on a sunny af­ternoon, and try not to smile. 
Side Three, Consider, is the real statement of MANASSAS, beautifully acoustic and lyrical, and exquisitely ananged. "It Doesn't Matter" could be the showcase of the future Stills; "Bound to Fall", the only non-Stills -written tune on the album, which takes off from the in­erectable syncopation of the guitars and the amazing precision of the voices; and the uncluttered beauty of "Move Around", with Steve's first moog. Ah yes, but Stills, in Crosb:,-'s words, is "young and kinda mean and from the South", and don't forget that the South is the home of funk and swamp music and cajun queens, and Stills can sure funk--catch his wah-wah and slashing slide guitar, coupled with a terrific vocal on the "The Love Gangster", co-written by Stones' bassist Bill Wyman. Good funky shitkicking tune. 
Side Four is s11btitled "Rock and Roll Is 
Here To Stay," and here is the real foun­
dation of MANASSAS. "What to Do" is 
somewhat weak, but the tack piano and 
fiddle make up for Stills' vocal-the only 
place on the album where Steve's singing 
really falls down. "Right Now" just plain 
burns, and spotlights the singing of Hillman 
and Joe Lala. And then there's "The 
Treasure"-a real gem, the best thing on the 
album, a musically simple song that's so 
well arranged and performed, it's just 
beautiful. The tough rock break in the 
middle of the tune shows perfectly why Stills 
has to rank as one of the absolute top rock 
guitarists around, black or white, dead or 
alive. In anybody's book. 

The album closes with a tribute to Jimi Hendrix, Duane Allman, and AI Wilson. 


summer Gf '72 revisited 
Well, it all started this way: One day last summer we were sitting in someone's room reading the South Bend Tribune, specifically, the "Letters to the Editor" column. South Bend Tribune letters are like no others, ranging in subject from the quality of local pizza to the necessity of a traffic light at the corner of Pokagon and St. Peter's streets. But the one in question was headlined "Detecting Available N.D. Males Difficult" and read as follows: 
"In bygone day the very thought of Notre Dame would raise my mind to a state akin to nirvana. The images which would then drift through my consciousness were many, not the least being of idyllic, moonlight canoe rides on St. Mary's Lake, cycling under the sheltering boughs of majestic trees and witnessing epic clashes for the pigskin on the rutted turf." 
"However, as exhilarating as these contemplations were, they presupposed only one thing: the availability of young, unattached men. After investigating for ten and three-fourths days on this campus, I have decided that the demand for the above greatly exceeds the supply. 
"Heightening this dilemma is the fact that in the summer the priests and brothers, through their relaxation in dress, undergo a 
metamorphis and emerge, at least out­wardly, as "civilians." It becomes almost impossible to identify the "players" without a scorecard. 
"The administration seems oblivious to 
the situation. For in mimeographed 
directives issued at the beginning of the 
summer, it was stated that "the LaFortune 
Student Center serves as a popular meeting 
place for students." In the past week and a 
half I have made several excursions to this 
social Shangri-La and can still compute the 
total number of "civilians" found by em­
ploying only my fingers and toes. 
"Some of the more desperate among us have already purchased wire to position across the path of some unsuspecting male pedestrian. Then, as the victim lies stunned on the pavement, the huntress can rush from behind a tree and ask: "Father?" 
t.j. clinton 

("No.") "Brother? ("No.") "Ah, let me help you!" Her game has been snared. The letter was signed "Miss X, Notre 
Dame." We thought about it for a while and came to the conclusion that Miss X 'had some ~erve sullying the reputation of Notre Dame m such a n:'anner. As a result, another letter appeared m the South Bend Tribune a few 
days later: "Please inform Miss X of your "Voice of the People" letter that the availability of "young, unattached men" is not another case of demand exceeding the supply. "_We, the undergraduate (and lay) restdents of Lyons Hall of the University of Notre Dame hereby supply ourselves. In the meantime, we're keeping a sharp watch for wires to trip over. It was signed "18 Young Men, Notre 
Dame" The reply came a while later. It wasn't in the South Bend Tribune, though. It came in the form of a heavily perfumed note pinned to the Lyons Hall bulletin board: "Dear MEN! The wires have been in position for weeks but the astute huntresses have not snared any of you tigers from Lyons. As a matter of fact, the total at the end of the week was something like two priests, one casually dressed nun, four brothers, and two Youths on Parade.....we asphyxiated them with the smoke from their fire batons. 
"Anyway, I guess that your offer must only have been a token gesture. Now the ~umm;r is ~lmost over-perhaps next year 
tf you re still around we could issue I.D. badges or something--it would certainly make the process easier. 
"Well, take care--your letter really cracked me up. Bye for now. Miss X 
And that was the last we ever heard. Sometimes we wonder whether Miss X was really a nun and was just putting us on. Sometimes we wonder if Miss X ever found her young, unattached man. Then, sometimes we just think how ironical it was. 
Steve was born in New Orleans, where Delta blues is as real as Bourbon Street, and "Blues Man" is Steve really feeling the blues--like "Black Queen" leaning back from his old Martin with a bottle of tequila at his side, filling every note with a tortured glory. 
MANASSAS is more than an album. Manassas is a rock band, a good rock band, one that can play with Stills, not behind him. There's Hillman, who gives good guitar and better singing: Paul Harris, one of the best keyboards men in the business; Fuzzy Samuels on bass, Dallas Taylor on drums; Joe Lala, who sings like a house afire; on congas-timbales and percussion; and ex­Burrito Al Perkins on guitar, pedal steel and vocals. Anyone who knows anything at all about Stills knows that he ALWAYS plays better when someone pushes him-Buffalo Springfield, CSN&Y (Niel Young especially makes him play and sing better), and 

various efforts with Eric Clapton, Hendrix, 
Booker T. and others. The difference with 
Manassas is that they don't get in anybody's 
way, especially Steve's. They can rock, 
bounce, shimmer, roll up your socks, then 
boogie you to death, but they don't get of­1.
fensive, and that's a welcome change. Three or four years ago, Steve started calling himself Stephen, maybe telling us that he wasn't the same kid who made Buffalr Springfield, that he was a different guy, a musician who had grown into a man, perhaps. Then he was still a rookie, just another rock'n roll whizkid. But now he's grown up, and the result of this new ap­oroach is a terrific band and an exquisite album,one that gets better every time you 1ear it, like a _good wine gets better as it 1ges. Some will remainunconvinced,but for ne, this is it. 
Stephen Stills is here to stay. Rock on, Steve, rock on. 



Theatre Nates chambl iss' coup 
I. franklin devine 
Last weekend's presentation of Danny Chambliss, evening of dance, Visionary Ht>vt-lation of Man, was significant in that it marked the first major student initiated cultural event of the year. In a year in which I've yet to hear of a student poetry reading, film festival, or drama presen­tation (Remember all the plans for the Old Fieldhouse?>. a year in which even the student art gallery has been dark, Chambliss' production was a treat. 
The three act dance, tracing man's decline from a time when "Men were Lions" to a time whPn they are little more than robots had more than its share of well done, pleasing moments. It opened the audience's eyes to a number of very talented per­formers from the University community. Saidell Wright, a film editor at WNDU TV is being used by the University's station at the wrong end of the camera. Her solo per­formance in "Crossings" was easily the highlight of the show. 
Chambliss choreographed a fast moving evening of dance, just right for an audience not as at home with the medium as it might be. His versatile cast made up in spirited performing what it lacked as an ex­perienced ·ensemble. 
The performance did have its technical flaws, particularly problems with lighting and the sightlines in Moreau Hall's Little Theatre. It's awfully distracting to an audience to see so much activity in the wings which can break the mood of an on­stage performance. There were occasional moments when things just didn't work smoothly such as the "Watercress." It was more than made up for by such imaginative and outstanding segments as "Cow Song", "Pastoral" and "Why Spend a Dark Night With Me?" 
Hopefully Chambliss' success at 
producing his evening of dance will en­
courage other ND and SMC students to put 
together original performances, readings, 
or showings. Chambliss, an ND sophomore 
is already at work on antoher experimental 
dance program which may be ready for 
production next semester. 
The ND-SMC Theatre supported 
Visionary Revelations of Man. The Theatre 
supplied facilities, technical support, and 
material to the performance as part of its 
Lab Theatre. This sort of encouragement of 
an individual's initiative by a University 
department is both productive and com­
mendable. 

One upsetting point about the per­
formance, though, should.;'t be allowed to 
pass without comment. At times the Notre 
Dame audience can be one of the world's 
worst. Perhaps this should have been written long ago. The audience deportment was bad in other productions, both thnse of the ND-SMC Theatre and those of 01 -;ide companies. The bad manners thougl ·ere particularly galling in this instanc• 1f a premier run of a student written, dil ted, choreographed and designed 'Jer­formance ...a free performance at th· 
The evening the show was revie' ·ed a large contingent of "patrons of the d·,nce" meandered in thirty-five minutes late They added insult to injury by promenadin, iown the aisle and settling into first row ~ats. The group waited neither for the end of an act nor even a blackout, but came down during one of the dance segments. 
While the late wandered in and out, a photographer scurried about attempting quite conspicuously to be inconspicuous. Thank God the camera had no flash, but the movement and noise were bad enough. The camera people turn up all to often at the ND­SMC spring musicals. A really good disrupter can usually exhaust a flashcube on his instamatic before an usher brushes past enough people to get him to stop. 
All too often ND-SMC audiences are full of the same people who show up Sundays in Church ... the ones who just have to get out before the final hymn. It seems only a matter of common courtesty to wait for the house lights to come up before heading for the exits. Casts knock themselves out for five or six weeks of rehearsals. They work just too hard to be upstaged by some member of the audience who can't wait half a minute. · 
Maybe there's something to the snide often-voiced feeling that South Bend is a cultural wasteland. I doubt it. Audiences like some of those who show up for campus theater, though, are getting one hell of a lot more than they deserve. 


•
j 

Friday, October 27, 1972
the observer
8 
...on McGovern, Keenan





Letters • • • • 
themselves. Up until now, the calls are made in anger to poiitical tator: "Nixon is the chieftain -1Jf a
Schlesinger says, the situation of a
keenan needs of Black students on campus Department of Agriculture official leaders by people claiming to be on lawless administration ...The have been left in the hands of white Senator McGovern's staff, offices present administration is carrying representatives. negotiating for a job with Con­the exercise of corruption to a levelEditor: 
The primary Black need is to be tinental Grain Corp. who then buys are bugged, phones tapped, people of lawlessness which is in­heard. It is true that the student a New York apartment with followed, files destroyed -all by the tolerable ... One can only believeWe shall not be ­government has funded the Afro­Continental Grain executives as party whose major campaign cry a that the American people mayWe shall not be moved. 
American Society to help meet references, and then goes to year and a half ago was "law and begin to wonder what such anWe shall not be ­
some of the Black needs. Rumor Moscow to help work out a grain order". administration, having bought itsWe shall not be moved. 
has it that Shaft movies will be deal in which Continental Grain Four years ago President Nixon way lawlessly into power, mightJust like the tree shown to Blacks on campus every turns out to be the major claimed that what this country consider itself entitled to do duringThat's planted by the water, beneficiary.
two weeks. It has also come to our didn't need " was millions more" a second term in which its powerWe shall not be moved. 
Consider the "poor" dairy
attention that "Chitlins" will be on the welfare program's huge was virtually unchecked." served in the South dining hall farmer. On March 12, 1971, the lists -and he has since then added Long live the King?
KEENAN RESIDENTS 

on Saturdays. For this we thank Nixon administration announced six million names to those lists, an that there would be no increase in increase of 75 percent. During his 
the university. However, this is Joseph S. McNamara 
not exactly what we had in mind. the price that the government four years, the federal deficit has 3121f2 East Grove
black problems We feel that in order for the guarantees that it will pay for the seen 74 billion dollars added to its Mishawaka university to function as one, both milk. Ten days later, March 22, total, 30 billion in one year alone as groups must be included in the the Associated Milk Producers programs are instituted to shine
Editor: policy making organizations. gave $10,000 to the Republican the economy up by 7 November. m & i talk 
Open Letter to the Student Body: party, the first of a sevies of The role of Congress in the Chuck Wilson donations which evedtually processes involved in war has been 
This letter concerns the second to htindred Mr. and Editor:
Don Wilson amounted several usurped by Nixon, helargest minority on campus and thousand dollars. On Match 23 invades with impunity and calls it It's a good thing Dr. Masters had 
their problems. The source of the left town before your Tuesday
President Nixon met with the "protective reaction." Within 40problems facing the Black student 
leaders of the dairy farmers minutes of becoming law, a major issue appeared. Had he seen the here at Notre Dame is one of "corruption" organization and on March 25 it bill of water pollution was vetoed report of his comments about 
powerlessness. On no governing was announced that milk support only after the President has religious orthodoxy, he would have organization in the university prices would be raised after all. learned that he was not given the been extremely distressed, and 
structure are Blacks represented. Editor: Said William A. Po1well, sweeping power he wanted to cut justifiably upset. Your reporterBlack students have been at­An open letter to blind Leo : president of Mid-Arperica the budget anywhere he chose. claimed that Dr. Masters pointedtending Notre Dame far before the Dairymen: "I have become in­Senator Ervin claims that the out that "religious orthodoxy can attendance of women on campus If you're so concerned about the creasingly aware that the sincere President has impounded 12.7 create sexual disfunction." Dr. was even conceived. Special ef­"corruption" that Senator and soft voice of the diary farmer billion of appropriated funds; Masters did not say that at all. forts should be made to see that McGovern speaks of, I'll make you is no match for the jingle of hard Congressman Boggs puts the What, in fact, he said was that an 
Blacks are represented in the a deal. You tell me what is ad­currencies put in the campaign figure at 25 billion. individual's interpretation of his decision making power of the mirable in the events documented funds of the politicians." One Washington newspaper religious orthodoxy could possiblyuniversity. in this letter (and more extensively elaims that the President is not lead to sexual disfunction. 
In an article which recently in the 25 October issue of the Wall Said President Nixon to the running against Senator There is, obviously, a crucial appeared in The Observer it was Street Journal l and I'll consider dairymen on March 23, after McGovern, "but against the distinction between claiming stated that the enrollment of Black voting for the man who is clearly complimenting them on their in­public-against the normal religious orthodoxy, per se, freshmen had decreased. It also one of the unethical ogres of our dustrial unity and their in­processes by which a democracy is creates sexual disfunction, and the stated several reasons for this time. Should you see all of the volvement in politics: "You permitted to make its elective observation that subjective in­decrease--one being the high following as unworthy of any people are my friends and I ap­choice." terpretation of orthodoxy can demand for qualified Black censure at all, then I will per­preciate it...Whether we like it or Republican Senators are in­contribute to sexual disfunction. I students at prestigious univer­sonally ask for your definition of not. this is the way the system dignant that the President will not take it your reporter realizes the sities. The reason Notre Dame is democracy and that you consider works." leave the White House to support significance of the difference. In coming out on the short end is voting not for George McGovern, President Nixon refuses to them in their local campaigns, and the light of the importance of the because very few Black freshmen but for the only alternative to supply the voters with an account the strategy is obvious: should the issue. it is incredible that a man are willing to pay $4,000 a year to returning to the Presidency a man of his role in the Watergate affair, President appear in support of who took such pains to carefully not only receive a quality who has been bought and sold more yet his closest aides are deeply some Republicans, then those nuance his comments could be so t'ducation but to try and solve the often than Fanny Hill. involved, and his press secretaries DPmocrats who had decided to egregiously misquoted. It is trulyproblems facing the Black student Consider please a situation in continue to refuse to answer vote for Nixon the Republican saddening to see a man of such here. which ITT gets a favorable set­questions. Consider, if you will, might react unfavorably to national reputation the victim of a 
One might ask--why include tlement of an anti-trust suit after the implications of responsibility something said by Nixon in behalf violation of a basic principle of Blacks on the university govern­making a donation of several for a campaign of sabotage which of a beleagured Republican can­journalism -"if you're going to mental structures simply because hundred thousand dollars to the was and is no more than a blatant didate and vote against both the quote a guy, at• least do it ac­they're Black? We ask-why in­Nixon campaign. Consider also a attempt to destroy basic candidate and the President. curately."clude women on university massive grain scandal involving democratic processes. Money is Pl'rhaps the British can offer a governmental structures simply the sale of "registered" wheat and channeled all over the world and less intense perspective. Consider Very sincerely yours,because they're women? Who can in which the public is ultimately in many different forms in order to this from Henry Fairlie,best represent the needs of Black responsible for the huge profits conceal its point of origin, correspondent in Washington for l HPv. l William Toohey, C.S.C. people other than Black people reaped by six firms. Consider, as documents are forged, telephone the London weekly, The Spec-DirE'ctor of Campus Ministry 
VISIT THE HAUNTED HOUSE! 
We're full of spirits!
$399
Rocking Chair 
Blende~Whiskey fifth 
439 ; 
Barclay's Bourbon $ fifth 
. 
Tvarscki Vodka $378 ~~\ fifth 
Barclay's 
G" 


$386
In filth 
79~ 

Boston House $392 
G. fifth 
m 
*Best

TOWN & COUNTRY LIQUOR 
Beer Prices Town and CoJntry Shopping Center In Town 

See us for all your party needs and supplies *Keg Beer 




Friday, October 27, 1972 
North Vietnam presses for war end 

NOW AVAILABLE AT THE NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 

by Jean Thoraval 

Hanoi, Oct. 26 <Agence France­Presse l --North Vietnam today called on the Soviet Union, China "and other fraternal Socialist countries" to pressure the United States to honor an agreement that Hanoi said it reached with Washington earlier this month. 
The appeal was contained in an official commentary ac­companying the text of the agreement and an outline of the state of negotiations on the Viet­nam conflict broadcast repeatedly by Hanoi Radio since noon today. 
The agreement stemmed from "a new and extremely important" North Vietnamese initiative taken on Oct. 8, according to Radio Hanoi. 
It called on Moscow, Peking, "other fraternal Socialist coun­tries," people wanting peace, international organizations, the American people "and the people of the world who have always wholeheartedly supported the Vietnamese people" to "resolutely" struggle to get the United States "To execute im­mediately what was agreed bet­ween the United States and North Vietnam so as to end the war and re-establish peace in North Vietnam." 
The radio said the agreement 
was to have been signed on Oct. 31. 
It deplored Washington's putting 
forward "alleged difficulties" in 
Saigon to delay "the carrying out 
of its commitments." 
Hanoi still held by the nine-point agreement and felt that it must not 
be modified and that the final date 
for its signing remained Oct. 31, 
said the official statement. 
And the war in Laos continues 
By Malcolm W. Brown 
<c) 1972 New York Times 

.. Vientiane, Laos, Oct. 26­
Current peace negotiations here 
and an announcement by the Nixon 
administration that an Indochina­
wide cease-fire is probable soon 
have evidently had no effect on the 
war in Laos, which is being fought 
as bitterly as ever. 
According to reports reaching 
military sources here, fighting is 
especailly intense in the Plaine 
Des Jarres, north of Vientiane, and 
in a round the towns at the southern tip of Laos. 
The American air war over Laos, mounted mostly from bases in Thailand and carriers of the Seventh Fleet, has never been reported in detail and American military spokesmen report merely that American aircraft are sup­porting government efforts here. 
But in the clear blue skies now prevailing over Laos the frequent appearance of brilliant white vapor trails strung out in groups of three indicate the paths of B-52 heavy bombers which fly so high that they would otherwise be in­visible. 
It is assumed here that, if a cease-fire goes into effect, the lines between Pathet Lao and govern­ment positions will be defined by 
Describing the birth of the ac­shown it was ready to settle the The ·second phase involved the cord, the official statement said Vietnam conflict in two stages settlement of South Vietnam's that the Oct. 8 North Vietnamese "conforming to the frequently internal problems by the two sides initiative was a "draft agreement expressed desire of the American in the South. on the ending of the war and the re­side." Hanoi said that this initiative 
establishment of peace in Viet­The first phase comprised the had been recognized by the United 
nam" put forward to advance the ending of the war in Vietnam and a States as "truly important and negotiations. <On this date Hanoi cease-fire in the south, the ending very fundamental," opening the negotiator Le Due Tho was of the U.S. military commitment to way t.o "a very rapid settlement" meeting in Paris with United the South, and the signing of an of the affair. States presidential adviser Henry agreement in principle relating to On Oct. 20 last, President Nixon Kissinger). the realization of the South Viet­sent North Vietnamese Pharo Van 
Radio Hanoi said the North namese population's right to self­Dong a message saying that "he Vietnamese government had determination. appreciated North Vietnamese 
goodwill and confirmed that the text of the agreement could be considered complete," acccrding to today's official commentary. 
The decision of the Hanoi authorities to publish the terms of the agreement did not greatly surprise most observers here. 
It had been considered possible that the North Vietnamese would open the dossier on the Kissinger­Tho negotiations to demonstrate not only to the Vietnamese but also to international opinion the part that Hanoi had played in the conclusion of an agreement. 

Trustees of the University of Notre Dame presented a check for $500 to the United Way Campaign of St. Joseph County this week as members of the campus community continued their program of assistance. Edmund A. Stephan, center front, chairman of the board, presneted the chedk to Edward J. Murphy, Notre Dame chairman, as Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive vice president, and associate chairman Joseph O'Brien, Kenneth Lauer and Leo Corbaci look on. Holy Cross brothers and priests also forwarded a major contribution to go with a large cash gift from 
their relative positions at the time. Sundays. 
+ALUMNI CLUB + 
FRIDAY HAPPY HOUR (4-5:30 15' Beers) 
(A Stills' concert ticket is worth 1!2 price on a mixed drink) 
Sat: PRE-GAME SPECIAL 
Bloody Mary's 
2 for $1 
Screwdrivers 

•A •A 
(Closed during the game) 
students. 
Car co-op created by student govt. 
Student Government announces the formation of a car co-op to be directed by the Ombudsman office. 
The co-op, which will start Monday, the 3oth of October, is set up mainly for those going to some particular destination, or home. 
Whenever a person is traveling to a particular district he should call up the Ombudsman's offices at 7638 and state his desired location and time of departure. The Om­budsman's staff will put this in­formation on breakdown sheets and arrive with a ride. The office will then call the individual and inform him of which rides are going into his particular district. 
The co-op is primarily a telephone co.:Op. Students and faculty are requested to phone in the number of riders they need or the number of rides. The Om­budsman will then coordinate the riders and the drivers and contact both parties. 
Those interested should call the Ombudsman's office. The office is open from 9:30 to 5:00 Monday through Friday and 6:00 to 10:00 on 
SPILLS! SPEED! THRILLS! 



"ON ANY .SUNDAY" 

In the heart" of downtown South Bend 
GOOD·FOOD AT M 
·Steaks ·Chops ·ChickeA ·Sea Food -pleasant surroundings 

CLOSED MONDAYS 
Daily & Sunday 
11 am till 9 pm 
Saturday 
11 am till 10 pm 


THE GLORY 
OF 


NOTRE DAME 
It is a volume no Notre Dame fan can be without. It is a volume no football fan can do without. It is the story of Notre Dame football, covered by the magazine and the writers that were there as each chapter was unfolding. And it is the story of those kids who came up out of the railroad towns and cities and farms, and who saw those dreams fulfilled--not only· for personal glory, but for The Glory of Notre Dame. 
. .. $6.95 

also available 
PARSEGRIAN AND NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL 
by Ara P arsegbian and Tom Pagna · •••$1.95 
2nd Floor 

NOTRE DAME: ITS PEOPLE AND LEGENDS 
by Francis Wallace 
... Special $i.H 


Friday, October 27, 1972
the observer

10 
White pools billiard bulls at ND 

by Art Ferranti Staff Reporter 

Jack White, internationally known pocket billiards champion, was on campus yesterday to perform two shows displaying his pool expertise. Conferred with a degree from Notre Dame as a doctor of poolology Mr. White has been to over 122 countries and played at Buckingham Palace and for the White House staffs of Presidents Nixon. Johnson, and Kl.'nnedy with the presidents themselves. But of all the hun­
has been, Mr. White said that his two favorite schools are Notre Dame and the U.S. Air Force academy. "The hospitality presented to me once again at Notre Dame," said Mr. White, "has left nothing to be desired." 
With his hand-made and specially treated cue stick which he values as priceless, because a number of famous people have used it, Mr. White has set a number of records and been bestowed with many honors since 
Prison courses offered 
t by Janie Cannon teach the inmates remedial Staff Reporter reading, while Notre Dame students will teach math, english Once again the inmates of the and sociology. Various other Indiana State Prison in Michigan courses may be initiated, City will be instructed in various depending on the· backgrounds of subjects by approximately one the student teachers. dou•n ND and SMC students. The Indiana State Prison 

These students, recruited on Volunteer Program was founded 
Activities Night at the beginning of three years ago by Joseph the semester, will begin their Gagliardi, a Notre Dame student. wPekly visits to the prison as soon Sr. Margaretta feels that this as dearance is obtained from the program is "deeply appreciated by prison officials. the prisoners" because they feel 
St. Margarettc. Reppen, of the that, "someone outside cares and SMC Education Department, along it is a welcome change from with the girls from St. Mary's will routine prison life." 


Michiana scholarships available froin SMC 
Dr. Edward L. Henry, President, Saint Mary's College, announced today that the College has l'stablished twenty Academic Scholarships to be awarded to young women graduating in June, 1972 from Michiana area high schools. 
"These scholarships express the appreciation and gratitude to the Michiana area for the friendly support it has extended to Saint Mary's College for the past one hundrPd and twenty-eight years of our existence," stated Henry. 
ThP scholarships are awarded for high academic achievement. Each scholarship shall carry a value of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), to be applied against tuition charges. Unusual talent in such areas as music or art shall also be recognized for these scholarships. 
In addition, Saint Mary's College 

shall  extend  an  indeterminate  
number  of  grants-in-aid  to  
financially  needy  students,  

Pnabling them to attend Saint Mary's College. 
Those interested in applying for these scholarships should write or call the Admissions Office, Saint Mary's College, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
Henry also stated that, "over 5000,000 women over the age of twenty-two are continuing their education in Colleges and Universities throughout the United States. Saint Mary's College wants to assist the women in the Michiana area, and will shortly announce a policy regarding programs for women beyond the average college age, who wish to continue their education and or degree completion." 

Open Daily 10a.m.-9p.m. Sat. 9a.m.-6p.m. Closed Sunday 
The store with more sensational clothes for young men than any other in Michiana 
Main at Lincoln way Downtown Mishawaka 
Introductory Coupon 




$5 of 
PURCHASE OF $25 OR MORE 
at 
Larry's Esquire Shop 
N.D. Students only-I.D.'s required 
he took up the game 31 years ago. Besides receiving the degree from Notre Dame, a bull was killed in his honor in South America. He has played and defeated Minnesota Fats. He played and beat Irving Crane with a 319 high run. In Houston, Texas, in 1961 he played for an uninterrupted three day and three night billiards marathon. He 
has  won  up  to  $27,000  for  one  
game.  
From  Hollywood  Hills,  

California, Mr. White has also played many television and movie celebrities. Gail Fisher< "Man­nix") and Debbie Reynolds are rated as the no. 1 and no. 2 female billiards players of Hollywood by Mr. White. The top male players are Mickey Rooney <no. ll, Greg 
November 1-4 
Morris <"Mission: Impossible") 
<no. 2), and Jackie Gleason (no. 3). 
Mr. White quipped, "I played Gleason eight times. Five times for money and three times for groceries." 
On tour eleven months out of the year, Mr. White said that he does not practice any more. Since he does so many exhibitions and tournaments, he has neither the time nor the need. He is on tour now having gone to twenty-Qne of the forty-four states scheduled. He also plans on touring eleven European countries on this tour. 
Con~inually expressing his great affectiOn .for Notre Dame, King Kersten, m gratitude, presented Mr. White with another honor "Owner of Student Government.': 
ND hosts MACAA 
Final plans are nearing com­pletion for the annual conference of the Mid-America College Art Association <MACAAl, the largest meeting of art specialists in the nation, on the University of Notre Dame campus November 1-4. Members of the Society for Photographic Education will hold their annual sessions in con­junction with the MACAA. 
A performance of the Joseph Haydn Mass by the Elkhart Symphony Chorus in Notre Dame's Sacred Heart Church at 8 p.m. Wednesday <Nov. 1) will open the combined meetings. Other evening programs include Electric Stereoptican, a demonstration of sound and visual elements by a group from Northern Illinois University at 8 p.m. 
Exhibitions scheduled with the conference include the principal works from Notre Dame's per­manent collection in the Art Gallery; current student works in the Isis Gallery <Fieldhouse); Feldhaus art exhibit competition on old basketball court in Fieldhouse; Photography in Ar­chitecture Building; Light Gallery of New York exhibition in Center for Continuing Education, and ceramics exhibits of Marvin Bartel at Saint Mary's College. The South Bend ArtCenter is displaying paintings by Douglas Kinsey, 16 and 17th Century European prints, and 18th Century Italian prints from the collection of Wooster College. 

RoGERS 


Optical 
IOGI!It ATWRL • OWNR 
ACCOUNTING AND FINANCE MAJORS 
Let us help you: 
PLAN AHEAD To Become a CPA THE BECKER CPA REVIEW COURSE Indianapolis 317-547-9971 
Our Successful Student• Represent 
1/5 OF USA 
HOUISr MON • TUES -ntU1. .... 9 AN. 5r30 PM WED • SAT 9 AN. 12 NOON 
COMPLErE SPI!IcrACU 
SRVICE ALL E'l'! 01. 'S PIESCIIIPTIONS lfONOIU 
ealt 

289-7109 


Whether it's rescuing families from a disastrous fhod or running day camps for needy kids-the National Guard belongs. Find out how you can help yourself, your community 
and your country.  
For Information call collect Company C, Plymouth lnd 936-2715 or in South Bend 289-0165  ITBJtionall auuard  
An ~qual opportunity outfit  

--------~--­
..I 


Friday, October 27, 1972 
the observer 1 1 

ND---Michigan jayvees clash in rematch 
by Greg Corgan 
Tomorrow at noon on the Astro­turf at Cartier Field the Irish junior varsity football team will tangle with the University of Michigan Wolverines for the second time this season. 
'!'he Irish won the teams' first meeting in Ann Arbor, 17-7. Michigan, after the opening game loss to Notre Dame has won both of its last two games and will be looking for revenge. Coach Dennis Murphy'ssquadis trying to bounce back from last Friday's defeat at the hands of Michigan State 26-14. 
With the new NCAA rule allowing freshman to play varsity ball this year coach Murphy is not always exactly sure who will make up his squad for each coming game. The JV team consists of all freshmen, sophomores and juniors who are not involved in varsity preparations for the up­coming Saturday. 
Murphy's problem has been compounded bitely by the rash of injuries which has struck the varsity. Sophomore quarterback Frank Allocco did not make the trip to Michigan State last week because of an injury to Bill Etter. Etter has recovered so Allocco will see action tomorrow. Running backs Art Best, Ron Goodman, and Russ Kornman are involved in varsity preparation this week and will not see action with the junior Irish tomorrow. Coach Murphy mentioned that he's never sure who'll be set loose for the JV game and must adjust his game plans from week to week. 
Such was the case against Michigan State last Friday when Kornman, who had been in varsity Murphy so went on to say that 
preparationall week, was not set game experience is also important loose until Thursday. "Russ had and that last Friday in East 
been runAing at fullback all week," Lansing " ...36 out of the 46 players said Murphy, "but Tom Parise is a we brought up there got in the ball good hard runner who deserved to game. We try to get quite a few in play. So I quickly briefed Russ on to see some action." the plays at halfback Thursday Last Friday against the Spartans and although things got a little itseemedas if the junior Irish only hairy at times Friday afternoon he played half a game. "We executed 
picked up over 100 yards." well offensively in the first half," 
As junior varsity coach, Murphy Murphy noted, "although it was 14­concentrates mainly on getting his 14 at halftime." He compared the players ready for some game-type second half to the Notre Dame­situations. "We try to develop a Missouri game last Saturday. "We game plan, and to learn to take had a lot of errors, fumbles on advantage of opportunities which fourth down plays, and a lot of other teams offer us." He added, turnovers." "We try and get the plays together Murphy cited the outstanding basing the offense on those that play of Kornman who "did a good have been initially taught to the job at a position he's not familiar players and are used in the play with," Parise, who rushed for 62 system at Notre Dame." yards in ten carries, and 
sophomore tight end Ed Bauer who 
"caught a touchdown pass and did 
an exceptional job of blocking."
Irish still tops in pass defense 
Despite a disappointing per­formance last weekend against Missouri, Notre Dame remained the nation's leader in passing defense and is among the top ten in 
TOTAL DEFENSE G Plays Yds. Avg. 

Nebraska ........6 389 1012 168.7 Louisville ........5 330 916 183.2 East Carolina ....6 336 1224 204.0 Notre Dame ......5 339 0580 211.6 M1chigan .........6 365 1277 212.8 Miami, Ohio......6 355 1297 216.~ Tampa ...........7 471 1522 217.4 So. Calif..........7 498 1529 218.4 Louisiana State .. 7 352 1316 219.3 Oklahoma ........5 331 1104 220.8 
RUSHING DEFENSE 
G Plays Yds. Avg. 

So. Methodist ....5 185 3140 62.8 Louisville ........5 205 3360 67.2 So. Calif..........7 301 4830 69.0 East Carolina ....6 207 4690 78.2 West. Mich.......7 278 6000 86.6 
Nebraska .........6 276 5310 88.5 Louisiana State .. 6 226 5500 91.7 Yale..............4 178 3880 97.0 Miami, Obio ......6 220 6210 103.5 Oklahoma ........5 215 5260 105.2 
Rally time changed 
Tonight's Stephan Center pep rally, which will begin at 6:45 rather than the usual 7 p.m., will feature Irish offensive backfield coach Tom Pagna and basketball coach Digger Phelps. 
Also speaking at the pre-Texas Christian rally will be split end Willie Townsend and fullback John Cieszkowski. 
total defense, according to Missouri completed only four passes in its 30-26 upset of the Irish 
statistics released this week by the 
NCAA. last week but they all came in key 

CLASSIFIED RDS
PASSIJijG DEFENSE situations and helped set up Tiger 
A!t. Com. Pet. Yd.s. Avg. 

scores. Notre Dame's average
Notre Dame ......5 26 .361 349 69.8 
yield of passing yards per game
Toledo ...........7 42 .400 511 73.0 
WANTED Wichita st.lite .....7 43 .316 561 80.1 figure still left the Irish 3.2 yards 
Tulsa ...... :• ......& 45 .464 474 79.0 increased slightly to 69.8, but that 
Need 2 GA tix for Texas Christian
Nebraska .........6 38 .336 481 80.2 
ahead of Toledo. 
game. Call 4978.
Northwestern ....6 34 .436 490 81.7 
Notre Dame is fourth in total
Columbia.........4 35 .422 327 81.3 
Need apartment for second
Michigan .........6 46 .393 512 85.3 defense, giving up 211.6 ypg. 
semester able to move in in
Marsllall .........6 33 .398 515 85.8 Nebraska has the country's top 
December, call Fred 1487.
Vanderbilt ........& 35 .361 522 87.11 figure, 168.7 ypg. Ride needed to Philly on or around Nov. 3. Will go anywhere east. Call Tom 233-7931.
Features added to SC trip 
Need ride to Pittsburgh, weekend of Nov. 4. Will pay, Katie 5770.
Two breakfasts and a steak dinner, South Bend at 10 p.m. on Sunday, as well as $15 worth of tickets to December 3rd. 
2Miami GA needed, call Don 7471 
or 234-6267.
Disneyland have been added to the Payment for the trip is due 
existing attractions of the November Ist. For further in­
Driving to Navy game? If so I
cheerleaders' proposed trip to the formation, contact Charlie 
need a ride to Philly, New York or 
Southern California-Notre Dame Morrison (202 Holy Cross) at 3122. 
vicinity, able to leave Nov. 1, will share expenses. Paul 7861.
football game December 1-3. 
2 girls need ride to Philadelphia
The travel package also in­
Crew opens 
weekend of Nov. 4 Will share
cludes, for $195 round trip air 
expenses. 4635.
transportation from South Bend to 
Need ride to Columbus 0. Nov. 3, Jan 4679. 
Los Angeles, hotel accomodations, with Alumni 
a pre-game rally party (courtesy of the L.A. Alumni club), tran­The Irish crew team opens its 
Need ride for 2 to Cleveland. Call
sportation to and from the Los season Saturday morning against 
Dan 8810. 
Angeles Coliseum, ND-USC game ·a boat comprised of Notre Dame 
Need GA TCU tix, call 234-6802.
tickets, and a post-game party. alumni at 10 o'clock on the St. Joe River. 
Need ride to Philly for Navy
The charter flight will leave Transportation for spectators 
game. Will share expenses. Can 
leave Friday. Call 4151.
South Bend at 9 a.m. on Friday, will be available at Sepan Center 
December 1st, and will return to at 9:15. 
Need 6 Gen. Adm TCU tickets. 
Frank 8533, Neal 6766. 
Need 4 general admission tickets for TCU. Need not be together. Call John 1~05. 
Wanted: ride to Detroit. Will
Never to laugh or love... 
share driving, expenses. Call Joe 1412. 
Needed: ride to New Jersey (on East) Nov. 3. Call 8027. 
Need 3 general admission tickets







nor taste the summertime? 
to Miami game. 4635. 
FOR SALE 

Desperately need to sell Air Force 
game-trip-hotel ticket. Urgent. 
Mike 272-2947. 
1 TCU student ticket for sale, call Bill -1244. 
For Sal: 2 Navy tickets, cheap 
6841. 

STITCH has incense, handmade belts, purses, candles, earrings, and clothes. Corner of South Bend Ave. and St. Louis Blvd. Phone 232-4014. 
Stills tickets: on floor, rows 4 and 
6. Call Neil or Paul, 3232 or 3241. 
Must sell: Dorm -size refrigerator 
2.1 cu. ft. Excellent condition, sacrifice. $.45.00 Call 1365 after 6:30. 
Several good couches and chairs . clearance prices. Mrs. Cooper 272-3004. 
For sale: 1, 2 or 3 general ad­mission TCU tickets. Call 1595. 
LOST AND FOL'ND 


I 


I 
Lost: NO class ring at SMC. 
Name inside, please call 3667. 
I 
Whoever received my Meat Squad shirt in their laundry, please call me. 1348; laundry number 90641. 
Lost: a black switchblade. Please call 2164, it is a present 
from my mom. 


Defensively, Coach Murphy noted the fine performances of middle linebacker Gary Lane, and defensive end Jay Achterhoff. 
Tomorrow the junior Irish must deal with a Wolverine team that has shown steady improvement. Since its loss to Notre Dame, the Michigan junior varsity has handed Michigan State and Purdue setbacks. Freshman Gordon Bell from Troy, Ohio, leads the Wolverines in rushing with 130 yards and 4.2 yard average while Eduardo Gonzales--who scored the lone touchdown in the first meeting with Notre Dame--is averaging 3.0 yards per carry. 
Allocco will be at quarterback for the JV's and, while Best and Kornman are still on the varsity preparation squad, Parise will be the fullback. Tom Bake, Randy Payne and Tom Maschmeier join him in the starting backfield. Admission for the game is free. 
NOTICES 
THE BOAR'S HEAD Opening in November A young organization with a new concept in dining, featuring a limited steak and lobster menu. We are now completing con­struction of our building which uses old English decor and five fireplaces to add to a warm an elegant atmosphere. Accepting Applications for cooks, bartenders, waiters, waitresses cashiers, dishwashers, dining room work. We'll be hiring about 60 full and part time people for our opening crew. An ex­cellent opportunity for a "fun" and interesting job for the school year and summer. Please apply in person at the 
BOAR'S HEAD 31 North · next to Howard John­son's Restaurant. 9 am to 6 pm. Ask for Henry or Bill · 
Europe over Christmas! Fly with the best. fly BOAC. $213 round trip! British Overseas Airways Corp. Call Clark 283-8810 for details. 
CALIFORNIA CLUB CHRIST­MAS CHARTER SIGN UPS. This Wed. thru Fri. and next Mon. & Tues 1-3 pm at the Travel Agency. 
Beaux-Arts Ball, November 4, 9:30pm-2:00am, creative attire, band, refreshments, tickets $4.00. Everyone welcome. 
Morrissey Loan Fund. Borrow up to $150. La Fortune basement. Open 11:15-12:15 Monday thru Friday. 
HELP the helpless unborn. with time, money, or both. Right-to Life, Inc. 233-4295. 
Piano lessons: Call Eddie Sears, 232-6882; $5 per hour; $3 per half hour. 
Dressmaking and alterations,· phone 233-2441. 
FOR RENT 
Rooms ·nice home, close to town, for football weekends, $6.00 per person. 232-2989 after 6 pm. 
Groovy room for rent. Close to NO; bus; call 21!9-6581. 
PERSONAL 
Janet: now more than ever! Mike 
Roach Woman, All my love from L.A. Ruthie 
Tom, To be or notto be. Such is I ife. Mary Lou 
67 i miss you, friend. peace, 44 
Larry of Keenan. Too bad we can't get it on this weekend. Say hi to Chris. Love and kisses, 
Sue 

Deadline for all classified ads is 
1: oo pm the day before publication. All ads must be placed in person, and must be prepaid. 

--~------~----------------------" 

..--------~----~~------------------------------------------------------------------------~----­
.. 
r 
• 
~-----------------------­
Friday, October 27, 1972
the observer

12 
Irish ready for upset-minded TCU 
behind win over TCU and the Irish 

by Jim Donaldson of the nation's top sophomore.:; in 
Sports Editor running back Mike Luttrell and would like to throw the football, if linebacker Dede "Mean" Terveen. they're physically capable. It's been a long time since Notre Their only loss was at the hands of Split end Willie Townsend is still Dame lost two consecutive football 18th-ranked Arkansas, 27·13, but bothered by a bruised knee and games ... since 1963, in fact, when TCU led going into the fourth his replacement, Jim Roolf, has 
Hugh Devore was head C<?ach. quarter. had his brooken finger reset this Texas Christian has the op­Parseghian certainly isn't un­week. Bobby Washington, portunity to become the first team derating the Frogs. "TCU is a Townsend's back-up at the start of 
the season, is out of action_ with an

to pin back-to-back losses on an winning team with good morale Ara Parseghian-coached Notre and sound coaching," he said. injured shoulder. Dame club when U1e two teams "Billy Tohill has done an excellent Notre Dame's running gameclash in their first-ever meeting job. They run the wishbone as well figures to be improved with the Saturday at 1:30 in Notre Dame as anybody I've seen this year and return of Eric Penick to the 
Stadium. they have some variations and starting lineup. Darryll Dewan 
Both TCU and Notre Dame will wrinkles off it that can cause had to sit out a couple of days of enter the game with 4-1 records but problems." practice this week with bruised the Horned Frogs are coming off a "We figure to have our hands full ribs but he appears ready to gothrilling, 13-10 victory over Texas with Texas Christian," Parseghian Saturday.A & M, while the Irish are trying to continued, "particularly witheir 
Penick and Dewan rank one-two

bounce back from a stunning, 3Q-26 backfield speed and strong of-among Irish runners with 325 andupset at the hands of four~ fensive line." 
297 yards, respectively. 

touchdown underdog Missouri. Luttrell is the big man in the 
"We played like true cham­Horned Frogs backfield, having Tom Clements, who led the pions," said Billy Tohill after rushed for a team-leading 547 Notre Dame offense to four touch­watching his Horned Frogs score yards, an average of 6.3 yards per dows in only 22 minutes last week, in the last two minutes to defeat carry. He can also throw the ball, will again be at the controls. 
the Aggies. "This team came back having completed five of five Clements has run for 188 yards this fall and has completed 51 percent
when it had to after some stum­passes this fall, including a nine­of his passes. Townsend, 12
bling around." yard toss to reserve quarterback
Notre Dame did more than its catches, and Mike Creaney, nine,
Ronnie Littleton for the game share of "stumbling around" last winning touchdown against Texas Terveen heads a tough Frog TCU also has a solid kicking have been his favorite targets 
during the first half of the season.

weekend against the Tigers, A & M. defensive unit which has given up game. Punter Greg Anderson has 
fumbling away a punt and a kickoff only 120 yards per game on the been averaging just over 40 yards The last time the Irish played a
"I've faced some good backs this 

deep in its own territory and giving ground, using a 4-4-3 alignment. per boot and placekicker Berl Southwest Conference team was in 
season but Luttrell is one of the
up the ball twice on pass in­Simmons hasn't missed much, 1971 and that game, too, came
best," remarked Aggie defensive "He has the mental attitude and 
terceptions. "We did everything converitng 14 of 14 PAT's and after a Notre Dame loss. That
tackle Boice Best last weekend. killer instinct to be great," Tohill
wrong and Missouri did everytlling year, the Irish whipped Texas in
"He hits quick and is by you before said of his young star. Luttrell eight of 10 field goals.
right," Parseghian commented. the Cotton Bowl after a schedule­
you know it. One man can't bring adds, "He likes to see heads roll." 
The Frogs' biggest weakness this ending loss to Southern Cal. Thehim down because he's such a And Terveen's statistics speak for

The young Irish ball club, after season has been a tendency to give Irish will be trying for a similar
powerful runner." themselves-"the mean one" has 
an impressive start, had been brought down 57 opposing ball up passing yardage. Arkansas effort tomorrow to end their 
Joining Luttrell in the Frogs'

thinking about an unbeaten season took to the air to post its come from "losing streak."
carriers.
backfield are quarterback Perrybefore Missouri brought them Senn, who has completed 50 per­
down to earth. The loss left the Mike Crean e Y IIIHIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
cent of his passes since stepping inteam dejected, but Parseghian for the injured Ken Marshall,feels that morale has perked up halfback Billy Sadler and fullback this week in practice. 
Ronnie Webb, the club's number"A defeat like that does present 
a two ground gainer with 218 yards.
a problem from mental stand­point for a non-conference "We only throw when we have member," Parseghian said. "Its to," coach Tohill says, but, when 
1lllllllllnlllln111n111num1m1111n111 nm1111mnnnmmnm•mm•mm•••••••m•111•m•m•1mmnn••••••••• HaIfway
always difficult to come back after TCU does put the ball in the air, a loss but we've had a good week of split end Steve Patterson (10 So now the goose-egg is gone from our "L" scarcely a smile in the locker room. We didn't do 
preparation." receptions, one TD> and tight end column, and at 4-1, halfway through the season, well enough. We won, but that doesn't cut itGetting ready for TCU is no easy Lane Bowen (eight catches) are perhaps it's time to see where we've been, where anymore. We had come to "expect" winning big task. The Horned Frogs boast two Senn's favorite receivers. we are now, and what still might happen in the of ourselves; when we didn't we were down. future. Coach Parseghian held up the game ball, looked
Jim DonaIdsont=================================:i====================================================================: We entered the game against Northwestern in around at us, then said, "Hey boys ... we WON the Evanston an enigma, a young, untested team, football game!" Funny, isn't it? 42-16 and we're unsure even of ourselves: There was no pressure dejected. 4-o and we can't feel good, feel happy. to win by 40 points, no cries of national Cham­something's not right.
The Irish Eye 
pionship on our backs and minds. We were en­Enter Missouri with a perfect day, add on a bad thusiastic, charged up, anxious to find out just how case of butter-fingers for ND, and you come up good we were, and how good we could be. with the upset of the season. But think about this. 
~====:::::::=:=:=:=:=====:=====>:=:=:=======:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=::::;;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:=:Footbo II picks 
Well, we passed that first test with flying colors, We fumbled the opening kickoff four times, twice Upsets marked last weekend's college football action. Missouri and even succeeded in surprising ourselves a little they covered it. We fumbled punts, had pass in­shocked Notre Dame, Colorado surprised Oklahoma's powerhouse ball bit. But as soon as we walked off that field, we terference called twice, were offsides on fourth 
club and Navy, drubbed the week before by Syracuse, edged previously started thinking, because we knew it would be down, and literally gave the ball away in excellent unbeaten Air Force in Colorado Springs. It s~med like every underdog different against Purdue here in south Bend. field position six times. They controlled the ball except Tennessee, tabbed by the Irish Eye to beat Alabama in the "upset The work Purdue week was intense, nothing for two-thirds of the game, and in spite of all thtse of the week", was winning games against heavy favorites. less. The tension could be felt on Monday as the things we still almost won. I guarantee if any 
This Saturday, clubs like Oregon, Texas Christian, West Virginia, positions and players were introduced--"Butz, team gives us those breaks we'll kill 'em-and yet Wisconsin and Minnesota will be trying to pull off a series of upsets that Keser, Baumgardner," and all the rest. By Missouri had to hold on for a four-point victory. It would compare with last week's surprises. Friday it was thick enough to cut. We had to know would have been mighty interesting if we'd gotten 
The Horned Frogs of TCU, encouraged by Missouri's conquest of the whether we actually were a good team, or just had a into gear two minutes sooner. But I learned a long Irish, are out to shackle Notre Dame with its second straight defeat. fluke against Northwestern. time ago that the "if's" are for losers. Oregon, an upset winner over Stanford last Saturday, has another chance The game was rated a toss-up; a one-point win A lot of times, people have to lose things to to make the headlines, hosting the number one ranked Southern would be enough. The all-important and over­appreciate just how much they have-from tin California Trojans. West Virginia meets Penn State in a battle for riding factor, on the team, in our minds, and with soldiers to parents. A loss of a football game Eastern supremacy while Wisconsin and Minnesota tangle with unbeaten the fans, was just that-to win. And win we did, should help us appreciate winning, but th,e real Big Ten powers Ohio State and Michigan, respectively. convincingly. We found a team unity and strength tragedy is that I don't think it will. Here at Notre 
Last week was a bad one, the worst of the season in fact, for both Notre that day. Spanky and his Gang and the Green Dame we're expect~ to win and even that isn't Dame and the Irish Eye football picks. Hopefully things will be different Machine stood together and said, "Hey baby-go enough. Because we're Notre Dame, we don't 
this week. Here are the choices: ahead and call us names. We'll still come at you.~ enjoy winning more, we're denied the jubilation · Notre Dame over Texas Christian-The Irish have never lost two in a And everyone said we were great, and what a and celebration, because we're only ac· row under Ara Parseghian. super team we had, and how only Southern Cal. complishing what is "expected", of us~oing what 
Purdue over illinois-The Boilermakers are looking to hammer out stood in our way-etc. ad nauseaum. And maybe we're "supposed" to do. It has almost gotten to their fourth Big Ten win in as many games. then it started·-the combination of things: the point that anything less than to-o and a Colorado over Missouri-The Tigers pulled off a stunning upset of the newspapers, columnists, comparative scores, our National Cahampionship is a let-down. 
Irish last week. Don't look for a repeat performance. friends and advisors-even Jimmy the Greek. All But don't get me wrong! I think this is the only Auburn over Florida State-shug Jordan's Tigers are a lot tougher of a sudden, we find ourselves in the middle of a way to look at the situation, the only way to reach than people figured them to be this season. mess we shouldn't be anywhere near. We always for the top. But we carry the impossible dream to 
.Nebraska over Oklahoma State-The Cowboys shot down Colorado but knew we were a good football team, and just far when we begin to expect it. 
the Cornhuskers ought to put more than a few holes in OSU's upset hopes. needed the opportunities to prove it. All of a The world hasn't ended. We won't be 1o-o in Michigan over Minnesota-The Gophers will have to dig a deep hole to sudden, we're 2-o and a super football tean. All of 1972, but we're not slumming by by any means. avoid being slaughtered by the Wolverines. a sudden we're not young and inexperienced Sonetimes I think the fans forget a little that we 
Ohio State over Wisconsin-Michigan looms as the only threat to an anymore, but maulers who SHOULD beat are people, too-that we feel just as bad, if not unbeaten season forthe Buckeyes. everyone by 40 points. worse, than they do when we lose. We work to Yale over Cornell-The Bulldogs are making a surprising bid for the The next week we beat a good Michigan State eliminate errors and overcome mistakes; we sure Ivy title. , . team by 16 points, and the edge is gone. There's no as heck don't make them on purpose. We're the Southern Cal over Oregon-The mighty Trojans should chalk up win jubilation that we won, no kacking around in the ones working in practice, hurting, and sweating, number eight in their Pacific Eight encounter. locker roon, no satisfying, good feeling-why? and putting the effort in to make the machine go. Georgia Tech over Tulane-The Yellowjackets should sting Tulane. Isn't 16-0 enough? Suppose we did win by 40-0, We're making the sacrifices, personal ones, not $5 Penn State over West Virginia-A win here would give the Nittany then what? There's no jubilation or celebration bills. Sometimes, by the comments made, people 
Lions the Lambert Trophy. then, either, because that's what's "supposed" to must think we have nothing involved, we don't Arizona State over Air Force-It looks like the second straight loss for happen. I guess we weren't "supposed" to beat care enough to care or hurt. Wear our shoes for a the Falcons. N.U. and Purdue as we did, because I distinctly week, and then come talk to us. Miami (Fla.) over Army-Fran Curci finally has his ball club playing remember being happy. So now a lot of pressure seens to be gone, up t() its potential. So then Pitt comes to town, and everyone in his although we're still giving away 21 points on the Navy over Duke-The Midshipmen could be on their way to a winning right mind bets against. us, with the 30 points cards. But, as we all learned last week, the game 
season. Jimmy's giving away. We play sloppily and make is played by the players on the field on Saturday, Upset of the Week: numerous errors, until a key interception blows and nowhere else. Experts don't play the game,Pittsburgh over Syracuse-The Panthers have been vicious the last the game apart late in the third quarter. In spite we do; predictions don't play the game, we do; 
couple of weeks. of all the errors, in spite of all the mistakes, we oddsmakers don't play the game, we do; -and so Last weeJt: 9 of 15 .600/ Season's pet. 77 of 105 .733. still win by 30 points-incredible. But there was do you, becaQse we're all in this together. 








