---~· -------~­
On The Inside 
Catholics react in N. Ireland ... p. 8 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Thursday,_April ~1 1~2

Volume VI, No. 113 

St. Mary's students protest Viet war 
by Maria Gallagher St. Mary's Editor 
About 40 Notre Dame and St. Mary's students at­tended a hastily-scheduled meeting last night at Regina Hall to plan protests against the Vietnamese escalation. 
SBP Jean Seymour and SBVP Sue Welte offered "constructive" ideas for campus participation in the nationwide student protest. 
"Our biggest problem is that we are working against time," said Seymour. She encouraged the community to "feel free to express yourself in protest in any form as long as it's not destructive." 
Seymour suggested working with Saga to collect money for any of the various Vietnamese relief funds. If a large number of people would sign up pledging to miss a definite number of meals, Seymour contended, Saga could possibly be persuaded to donate the money in the students'names to Vietnamese relief. 
"If your moral committment is great enough," Seymour continued, "join the boycott of classes." 
However, she listed several alternatives to boycott: attending classes in guerilla attire, writing senators and representatives, or refusing to pay the telephone tax. According to Seymour, this tax finances the white phosphorus chemical used in Vietnam. 
Freshman Lenore Cote added that teachers are 
being contacted and urged to dismiss classes. 
"Those who can't or do not wish to do so are being asked to participate as speakers," she said. "Perhaps we can plan some open seminars." 
Cote participated in the guerilla theatre staged in the SMC dining hall Tuesday night. Many students "mocked" the demonstration, she reported. 
"We wanted to confront the students 'directly draw their attention to the situation," she explained. 
Further guerilla theatre demonstration, sheet painting, and readings are planned for today con­tinuing through the weekend. 
Students interested in a major guerilla theatre 
demonstration before and after the Allen Ginsberg 
lecture Friday in Washington Hall can attend an 
11 :OOA.M. meeting today in Fiesta Lounge. At 11:30, 
noon picketing of the Huddle and dining halls will be 
organized in the second floor ballroom, LaFortune. 

Students discuss war and upcoming strike in SMC rap session. 
Notre Dame representative John Short called on 
students to "go back to their halls and spread the 
word." He cited lack of publicity as the reason for the 
poor attendance, and asked students to take the 
responsibility to make their neighbors aware. Short 
also mentioned wht mock convention as a possible 

vehicle for protest, as well as the ROTC building. ­
A list of activities planned for the next few days will 
be distributed to individual rooms tonight around 
midnight. Among them are a "dead body" demon­
stration Friday before the dining halls, along with a 
reading of Mark Twain's war prayer; a conceleb#rated 
Mass for peace outdoors at SMC; and a collective fast. 
Former St. Mary's SBP Kathy Barlow reported that 
a march on government buildings downtown is being 
planned for Friday afternoon. Beginning at Leeper 
Park at 3:00, it will proceed to the Sherland Building, 
which houses the draft board, and to various federal 
offices. The ITT and Honeywell Corporation offices 
may be picketed as well. 
The People's Coalition for Peace and Justice hopes to 
coordinate area high schools, townspeople, IUSB, and 
the ND-SMC campuses in this march. 

1111111111111 n111m 111111111 i1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
SMC Student Government statement on strike 
We, the student government of SMC, are endorsing the following activities as viable means of showing our protest against the resumption of bombing in North Vietnam. We urge anyone to follow any other means of peaceful protest. We do not feel, however, that these things will be be the most effective. 
--Wire or write your congressman. We can vote now. 
--Use luxury money for the Vietnam Children's Relief Fund. --Use money you would have used for food for the above, if you fast. --Attend the peace mass at 1:00 pm Friday on the quad outside the SMC dining hall. --Urge your teachers to devote class time to discuss the war and particularly the recent escalation. 
--Come hear speakers set up by student government, hopefully, some students, faculty and administration will be willing to attend. 
Anyone willing to assist should contact SMC student government. 
Jean Seymour, Student Body President 
Susan Welte, Student Body Vice President. 
ND Student Government statement on the strike 
We have decided not to call for a general student strike We feel that it would have no effect on Nixon's policy and that several of the students are not in­terested in the strike and they should be able to attend class. We stand in agreement with the St. Mary's student government statement. We would like to add that non-violent, serious people with serious motives who do participate in the strike have our support and applause. Also a student government office has been made available for the coordinators. 
· "Contrary to reports in yesterday's Observer, 1 favored the calling of a student strike to allow me to get out of my art history class." 
R. Calhoun Kersten Student Body President. 

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJ111111111111111111111111111 
I 
~
Demos halt Republican war move 
by John ' W. Finney ((') l!li2 New York Times News Service 

Washington, April 19--The Democratic leadership of the S!'nate thwarted an attempt by a group of Republican conservatives today to rush through a resolution condemning the North Vietnamese as aggressors and endosing United States policies in Vietnam. 
The maneuvering over the resolution, which was introduced by Senator Barry Goldwater, Republican of Arizona. underscored the increasing partisan division developing in both the Senate and House of Representatives over the administration's Vietnam policies in the wake of the renewed heavy bombing of North Vietnam. 
In both houses. thP adminstration Pow faces the task of beating backDemocratio-supported amendments to set by legislation on a termination date for American involvement in the Vietnam War. In the past, the Aministration has relied upon the house to block such amendments passed by the Senate, but now there are indications of shifting sentiment among House Democrats in favor of end-the-war legislation. 
At a caucus today, House Democrats, by a 105-97 vote, refused to place themselves on record in favor of legislation that through a cut off of funds would ter­minate all American military activities in 30 days. But the Democrats laid the groundwork for probable adoption tomorrow of a resolution calling upon the House Foreign Mfairs Committee to report within 30 days legislation designed to achieve a prompt ter­mination of United· States military involvement in the Vietnam War. 
The resolution, sponsored by Rep. Thomas P. O'Neill Jr., of Massachusetts, the Democratic Whip, would also condemn the recent bombings of North Vietnam as "a dangerous escalation of our role in the Indochina War and a direct contradiction of the administration's stated policy of winding down the war." 
The Goldwater resolution, co-sponsored by 13 Republican Senators, represented an obvious Republican retort to various Democratic end-the-war proposals now being advanced in both the House an dSenate. 
Goldwater sought agreement to have immediate consideration of his resolution, only to be blocked by an objection by Senator Robert C. Byrd of West Virginia, the assistant Democratic leader. 

The Goldwater resolution will be open to further debate tomorrow, but under the rules of the Senate it did not appear possible that the Arizona republican could bring it to a vote in the next few days. In that event, Goldwater told reporters that he would offer his resolution as an amendment to a State Department budget authorization bill scheduled to be considered by the senate next week. 
If he does so, the State Department bill should provide a clear test of Senate sentiment on the war issue. The Senate Foreign Relations Committee has already attached to the bill an amendment, co­sponsored by Sen. Frank Church, Dem., of Idaho, and Sen. Clifford P. Case, Republican of New Jersey, that would cut off funds for American hostilities in In­dochina at the end of the year, subject to a release of African prisoners of war. 
The co-sponsors of Goldwater resolution, all Republicans except Senator Buckley were: 
Wallace, F. Bennett, of Utah, Henry L, Bellmon, of Oklahoma, William Brock 3d of Tennessee, James Buckley, Conservative-Republican of New York, Robert J. Dole of Kansas; Peter H. Dominick of Colorado, Paul J. Fannin, of Arizon~. Hiram L. Fong of Hawaii, Edward J. Gurney of Florida, Roman L. Hruska, of Nebraska, Strom Thurmond of South Carolina, John G. Tower of Texas and Robert Taft Jr. of Ohio. 
Describing the Soviet Union as "The principal culprit," Goldwater, his voice cracking with anger, said on the Senate floor: 
"If a Russian ship is hit, that's too damn bad. I hope we hit them all. They have no business being in Haiphong. 
"I would rather blow the living daylights out of Haiphong than lose one more American life." Sen. Gordon P. Allott of Colorado, Chairman of the Senate republican policy committee, said "The 


Secretary of State William Rogers treks over to Capitol Hill to join Carl Albert and Gerald Ford in an attempt to beat back amendments for a set termination date to ~ end the Vietnam War. From Left, Speaker of the 
1
House Carl Albert. Rogers, House Minority leader 
l 1
Gerald Ford. 
reckless rulers in the Kremlin" were responsible for the North Vietnamese war machine, "which is now in its second decade of waging aggressive and un­

~
provoked war against the three non-communist nations continguous to it." 
The Communist governments, he said, "cannot expect to be completely immune from all the risks of the war they are fomenting and funding." 

j
If these governments want to guarantee the safety of their shipping," he said, "they can take the sensible precaution of staying out of the war zone." 
The co-sponsors of Goldwater resolution all Republicans except Senator Buckley were: Wall~ce F. Bennett, of Utah; Henry L. Bellmon, of Oklahoma· 

l
William Brock 3D of Tennessee; James Buckley' Conservative-Republican of New York; Robert J. Dol~ of Kansas; Peter H. Dominick of Colorado· Paul J. Fannin, of Arizona; Hiram L. Fong of Hawaii; Edward 
J. Gurney of Florida; Roman L. Hruska of Nebraska· Strom Thurmond of South Carolina; John G. Tower oi Texas; and Robert Taft Jr. of Ohio. 

the observer Thursday, April 20, 1972 
New York--China's Ping Pong team was in New York as part of an Americ~n tour returning t~e American team's visit to China last year. 
on campus today

The Chmese players received a _key to the city from Mayor Lindsay 
and played a team from Tile United Nations for the benefit of the · 
llnited Nations International School.

-world 
3: 30--symposium, poetry sym­

Washington --The Commerce Department reported a strong ex­
posium, robert duncan, allen

pansion in the nation's economy in the first quarter of 1972--but more 
ginsburg, diane wakoski,


briefs 

than half of the increased gross national product simply represented 
library auditorium. · 

higher prices because of inflation. The inflation rate was reported to 
4: 30--meeting, continuing protest

have worsened followed the wage-price freeze. 
activities on campus for friday strike, 2nd floor Iafortune 7:00--meeting, credentials comm., New York--As protests against the escalation of the Indochina War mock convention, Iafortune
(Cl l!l72 New York Times continued on campuse~ ~round the nation, the presidents of the eight amphitheatre. 

Ivy League Umversitles and the Massachusetts Institute of 7: 30--lecture, jose gutierrez, socio­
Technolo~y issued a joint statement deploring the heavy bombing of political conditions and 
North VIetnam and supporting nonviolent non-coercive demon-liberation movement of 
strations against the war. ' chicanes, 123 nieuwland. 
8:30-lecture, john a. williams, soph lit festi'-('al, library auditorium. 

Washington--The manufacturers of Anacin, Bayer Aspirin, Bufferin and Exedrin and their advertising agencies were accused of deceptive advertising by the Federal Trade Commission. The commission contended that one nonprescription pain killer ia about as effective as 
notre dame-st. mary's
another; aspirin is the main ingredient of all analgesics. 



Campus armouncements••• 
An Tostal Other positions went to Jan Natale, public relations, Julaine
Dunking celebs 

Brophy, community relations"An Tostal" Dunking Booth, 8:00 commissioner, Pam King, off pm will include the following campus commissioner, Nan Albers targets tonight. 
student body treasurer, Sue8:00 Tom Prifferetti <Senior Class Oglesbee, student body secretary Pres.) 
Jpnnifer Jones, student assembly11::!0 Naked Kahuna (Jim Egan) 
secre~ary; Ann Rogers, NSA
After 10:00 BPer Slayer coordmator; and Mary Ann8:30 Tom McGowan <Senior Bar Gillespie, student union assistantMgr.l 
director.

From SMC Student Government. 
In addition to these officers11:30 Jean Seymour <Student Body academic affairs commissione~Pres.l 
Natalie Dwyer, student affairs8:30 Sue Welte <SBVPl commissioner Barb McKiernan9:30 Jack Candon <Public and judicial board chairman PattiHelationsl Kampsen hold cabinet seats. The9:00 All the Girl Cheerleaders four hall presidents and four class Possibly: Don Mooney <9::l0 if presidents when elected willhe comes l; Viking Rich Sherman, comprise the full cabinet ~f theGlen Corso. 
administration.

And definitely The "Prime Mover," after 10:00, R. Calhoun Stephan to speak Kersten. at U.N.D. night
Come take a throw at your favorite target. 10 cents a throw, Mr. Edmund A. Stephan,three for a quarter. 
Chairman of the Board of Trustees at the University of Notre Dame,

SMC cabinet 

will be the featured speaker when the Notre Dame Alumni Club of

appointments 

Saint Joseph Valley has its annual 
The SMC student assembly last Universal Notre Dame Night night approved the appointment of celebration. The event is scheduled ten new members to the student for Wednesday, April 26th in the government cabinet. Monogram Room of the Athletic 
Junior Mitzi Tracy was named and Convocation Center. hall life commissioner, a newly-Joe Sassano, Chairman of this created post that had been vear's event, said that all Notre proposed in the Seymour-Welte Dame Alumni, as well as friends of platform. SBVP Welte defined its Notre Dame, are most welcome to function as "a coordinator of the attend and hear Mr. Stephan's five halls on campus." . remarks. Mr. Stephan, a 1933 
,.:::::::::::~:::::!:::::::::::::::::::!:~:~:::::~:~:::~:;:;:::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::::~~=~===~===~:!:::::::::: 

Blood drive: success 
The Red Cross Blood Drive held at Stepan Center this past Monday and Tuesday was successful. The Midland Chapter of the Red Cross coming in from Chicago, counted 440 pints of blood in the two day drive: 210 pints on Monday and 230 pints on Tuesday. 
These figures are even more impressive when it is considered that the arrival of the drive was made known only about a week and a half before it was to arrive. 
The "problem" will be solved next year as plans for a much bigger blood drive this coming fall are now being made. 
WED. MAY 3 
8:30 in the Ace 
Ticket Prices 
$5.50 
$4.50 
$2.75 

Tickets on sale at: 
ACC 
9 5 

Union Ticket office 
11:1512:15 4:15 5: 15 
Dining Hall Sale Tonight Tickets going fast 
.. some good seats still available 

magna cum laude graduate of Notre Dame as well as a 1939 law degree recipient from Harvard, was elected to hear the reorganized Board of Trustees on the occasion of the change-over to lay government at Notre Dame in May of 1967. Mr. Stephan will gear his talk toward "A look into Notre Dame's Future and the Future of lligher Education". The club has included as a specially invited 
guest Hobert Calhoun Kersten, the newly elected Student Body l'rPsident. An invitation is also Pxtended lo all area alumnae of Saint Mary's College to attend this \'Par's ll.N .D. Night celebration. 
Interested persons may secure further information by contacting .lop Sassano at 283-7724 or Mike Toal. Co-Chairman. at 232-8201. 
Students for McGovern 

Notre Dame-St. Mary's students for McGovern will meet at 7 pm Sunday, April 23, in the Ballroom of LaFortune. Discussion will center on the Mock Convention and on the Michigan and Ohi~ primaries. All persons interested in working for Senator McGovern in the Niles area, in Toledo and Cincinnati, and at the Mock Convention are urged to attend. For further information call Trish Moore at 3355 or AI Cramer at 1363. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester ex­cept vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester from The Observer, Box 
Q,  Notre  Dame,  Indiana  46556,  
second class postage paid.  Notre  
Dame. Ind. 46556.  

ARTS AND LETTERS 


INTENT FRESHMAN 
Meet Your Maior Night for the 
GENERAL PROGRAM OF LIBERAL STUDIE 

7 pm Thursday, April 20 
103 O'Shaughnessy 


Wanted: Applicants for Student Union Services Commission 
Q'ualifications: Good workerI enthusiastic, mirthful 
Pay: Starts at a million dollars with rapid advancement. 
Apply at Student Union Office (7~757) or call Walt at 234 5566 



Lunar santples exhibit iilagnetisr-a. shatter assu~nptions 
SMOKY

by Walter Sullivan that presumably produced this magnetism chiefly on the far side MTN APOLLO 16 
(Cl 19i2 New York Times crater, could in some way leave a of the moon with a sharp peak near residue of local magnetis. Two the crater Van de Graaf. 
Houston, April 18--In what was magnetic measurements by The latter is close to the center of described here today as possibly astronauts of the Apollo 15 mission, the far side of the moon. 
the most surprising d' · ·overy to 
one near Cone Crater and the At press briefing today Dr. come from exploration of the other midway between there and David W. Strangway CCQ), chief of moon, it has been found that rock the geophysics branch at the
their lunar module hinted at this samples of differ, tt types possibility. manned spacecraft center here, collected at all four Apollo landing summarized the magnetic
As on previous missions a 
sites were imprinted with a sub­laboratory analyses of lunar
magnetometer will be left at the 
stantial magnetic field from three samples from the four landings.
site, its readings radioed to earth 
to four billion years ago. automatically. This one, It was established, he said, that The Earth is believed to be however, will be twice as sen­most of the rock cooled from the magnetic because it spins rather sitive and five times more stable molten state between 3.2 and 4 
rapidly and has a molten core. The than its predecessors. billion years ago. Furthermore, he moon spins only once a month and Furthermore, a lunar sub­added, it is "almost certain" that it has been widely assumed to be satellite capable of prolonged the rocks acquired their more solid throughout. magnetic measurements will be stable, or "hard" magnetism at 
A major effort will hP made on ejected from the command module that time. On April 20th Apollo 16 astronauts will attempt to land in the unex­the current Apollo 1u ill ission to before leaving lunar orbit to head When hot or molten rock cools plored lunar highlands between Stone and Smoky Mountains. seek explanations for the observed home. below a certian temperature -­The astronauts will perform three separate extra vehicular activities magnetism. For example, Navy Dr. Paul J. Coleman of the roughly 1500 degrees fahrenheit -­at the sites numbered on the map.Captain John W. Young is to carry University of California at Los it captures whatever magnetic 
magnetism observed in lunar the most unexpected finding of the
out a magnetic survey of Palmetto Angeles reported today on findings field may exist in its vicinity. rocks.Crater, a little more than one mile obtained with the subsatellite Laboratory tests on rocks like Apollo program." It would, he
The results suggest, he said, that 
north of the projected landing site. launched from Apollo 15. It those brought back from the moon it must have been about 400 or 500 added, be bound to have a profound 
By means of a pointable bearing upon our eventual un­
transmitted data from lunar orbit have been conducted, Strangway gammas Cthe gamma being a unit 
magnetometer this survey will derstanding of both the earth and
between last August and February said, to determine how much of a of magnetism l. While this is 70 to 
moon."

assess the possibility that impacts .of this year. The results showed local magnetic field would have \00 times weaker than the
of large meteroites, such as the one Lunar magnetism of this sort
marked variations in lunar been needed to leave the magnetism on the earth's surface­
was unexpected because it was -that which controls the compass assumed that the moon couldneedle --its existence on the moon 

have been hot enough to have aapparently for at least a billion molten, churning core like that years, starting some four billion which is believed to generate the

(THE OBSERVER) years ago, is a puzzle magnetic field of the earth.
Dr. Charles P. Sonnett of the Ames Research Center, operated Its existence, he said, is evident 
( Moon landing ) by the National Aeronautics and from its affect on solar gas blowing Space Administration at past the moon--"the solar wind"-­Mountam View, California, said as well as in the rock analyses and this lunar magnetism "could be the observations from lunar orbit. 


Thursday, April 20, 1972 Page 3 
Apollo 16 orbits moon atte:mpt 5th lunar landing 
by John Noble Wilford After a journey of three days and For more than four hours, . the IC'l l!li:!NewYorkTimesNews all the worry of peeling paint, astronauts circled the moon in an St•rvit•t• communications bugs and orbit ranging from 67 miles guidance quirks, the normally altitude behind the moon to 195 Houston, April 19--Apollo 16 laconic Young greeted the spec­miles over the visible· face of the rocketed into an orbit of the moon tacle of the lunar mountains and moon. Then, at 7:30P.M., Apollo today and was in position to at­craters and broad plains with the 16's main rocket re-fired for 24 tempt man's fifth lunar landing exclamation: seconds to swoop in closer to the tomorrow afternoon. "Boy, this has got to be the surface with a new orbit of 12 miles 
"Sweet 16 has arrived," Captain neatest way to make a living by 69 miles. John W. Young of the Navy, the anybody's ever invented!" From that orbit, Young and Apollo 16 commander, radioed to The 41-year-old young became Duke plan tomorrow to enter the mission control as the spaceship the first man to go into lunar orbit attached lunar landing craft, emerged from behind . the moon twice. The first time was as a pilot Orion, and descend to the lunar after going into orbit. in 1969 on Apollo 10, the pathfinding surface north of the Descartes 
A six minute, 15 second firing of mission for the first lunar landing Crater. The two men are the main rocket slowed the flight of Apollo 11. scheduled to cast off from the spaceship by 1,900 miles an hour It was an entirely new ex­command ship at 1:08 P.M. and until it was captured by lunar perience for the two other complete the landing at 3:41 P.M. gravity. The maneuver began 3:23 astronauts of Apollo 16--Lt. Comdr. The two lunar explorers are then P.M., E.S.T. while Apollo 16 was Thomas K. Mattingly 2D of the scheduled to begin at 7:19P.M. the behind the moon and out of com­Navy and Lt. Col. Charles M. Duke first of three planned excursions munication with earth. Jr. of the Air Force. outside the landing vehicle. 



Buffalo Five charged with three counts 
by Cliff Wintrode 

Buffalo, New York: An FBI agent here testified today that he believes two people escaped from a building seconds before five who are now standing trial for allegedly stealing draft files and army intelligence files, were arrested. 
Donald Adams, special agent with the Buffalo FBI office, said he saw two shadowy figures disappear down a stairwell where two of the defendants were apprehended the night of August 21. 1971. 
Adams also testified that he had been told by the assistant agent in charge of the Buffalo office two days before the arrest that "something was going to happen in Buffalo." 
The Buffalo Five are charged in a federal indictment with conspiracy, theft of government records, and intent to commit burglary. The five defendants are Maureen Considine, Chuck Darst. Jeremiah Horrigan, Jim Martin and Ann Masters. 
The first day of testimony was marked by a remarkable ex­pression of solidarity with the defendants, witnesses, and jury members by the spectators. All the spectators stood each time the jury filed out of the room, or a 
witness walked toward the stand. This held true when the FBI agent testified. 
Wide differences in what the issues before the court were could be seen in the opening statements of prosecutor, James Grable. US assistant attorney, and each defendnat including their co-counsel, Vincent Doyle, a lawyer. 
Grable told a jury that their only duty was to decide the guilt or innocence of each defendant on the three alleged offenses. "The only issues are issues related to these three charges," hf ,aid. 
Doyle began the defense statement' by saying that pleading self-defense will '· nable the defendants to "clearly and positively present themselves to vou." , "They lack the criminal in­tent." Doyle said. "We intend to move that . they regq_rded their action as an absolutely necessary step to prevent crime." 
Considine said in her opening statements that "we are not going to have much quarrel with what Mr. Grable will have to say." But. she added, "we are not here to talk about what happened on August 21." 
The legal process cannot be an autopsy ... or moral passion cannot excluded ... we will not be dismembered. We are sure we have a soul. Our souls brought us here." 
Horrigan accused te US or pursuing a policy of "genocide in Indochina." "How can we equate protection with killing." 
Masters said that "evPry citizen has thP responsibility to stop war crimes. Good Ger:· ..Jl1S had a responsibility io stop l'<azi atrocities," she added. 
Supporters of the Buffalo Five were pleased by the day's events at which they felt the invisible presence of momentum to be sided with the Buffalo Five. 
The government will begin their second day of prn·,•'('". 'l tomorrow. 
4 the observer Thursday, April 20, 1972 Cireus m aximus .mlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll!lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll1111111111111fflllflllffuu""""u1""""""u""w"""""w"m 
The George Wallace show 
11111111111 t.llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllmlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllummmlmlllllllllllnr Ed E11is 
r 
r r r 
r 
r 
r r 
r r r 
r r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
~ 
r 
r 
r r r 
r 
r 
~ 
r 
f 
r 
, r 
r 
, 
r 
r 
r 
, r 
, r 
r 
! ~ 
~ 
! ~ 
By far the most impressive element in Tuesday's George Wallace Show in South Bend was the Alabama Governor's concept of "the message". Wallace told of the message at the airport press conference, his on-stage coordinator screamed it to the 3000 Wallace fans at the Morris Civic Auditorium before Wallace appeared, and the Governor himself trumpeted it to the crowd when he finally arrived. 
The message is an angry one. It says, quite simply, that the "top leadership" of the labor unions, of the Democratic Party, and of the nation as a whole have become insulated from the people they are supposed to be serving. As a result, the service is no longer Ihere, and the "average citizen, who works and pays his taxes", gets done in by "pointy-headed bureaucrats who can't even park the1r bicycles straight." 
Wallace apparently sees his candidacy as a vPhicle for transmitting the anger and fear of the citizens who support him into policy on the level of the party and the nation. 
Note carefully that Wallace rarely talks about winning the Miami convention. He rarely talks about beating President Nixon­unless specifically asked. He does talk, however, about having enough delegate strength at the convention to get his message across. 
Occasionally, of course, he lapses into the cockiness that characterizes so many of his supporters. For example, at the airport Tuesday, he said, "IfI win in Indiana, I may just may just deliver that message myself instead of sending it." 
However. this sort of approach does not characterize the Wallace speech in general. One of Wallace's approaches is to maximize discontent with "regular 
Democratic candidates" by pointing out that the six--now five--senators against whom he is running have been office during the time the country has allegedly deteriorated, and that they should be held responsible. This section of his speech was delivered with particular intensity Tuesday night and drew the loudest applause. 
Wallace also points out--and according to most reports is totally accurate--that his opponents in the Democratic race have "stolen" his issues. He was the first to talk busing, the first to talk tax reform, and the first to talk about the problems of bureaucracy. In recent months, Senators McGovern, Humphrey, and Muskie have begun to talk about those things too. McGovern has had particular success, i.e. Wison Wisconsin. 
And Wallace confronts the accusation of demagoguery especially well. He merely points out that he is saying what the people are saying--he is delivering the message-­which is a clever form of populist demagoguery in itself, but then no one seems to mind. 
In times of trouble people tend to look for the easiest way out of the trouble. This is natural, and one of the easiest ways out is to redefine the problem so that a simplistic solution will work. So long as the definition of the problem corresponds fairly well to the voters' perception of reality we find a successful demogogue. lf Wallace is a demagogue, he certainly qualifies as a successful one. 
One point that is rarely argued among 
political observers today is that Wallace will 
not be the Democratic nominee. He will get 
little or no support from party regulars in 
the non-primary states, and he is not en­tered in enough states to win a majority of 
primary delegates. 
Another point that seems fairly obvious is 
that the Alabama governor will not run a 
third-party race as he did in 1968. At least 
he doesn't intend to do so now. Should the 
Democrats behave uncourteously in Miami, 
this may change. The work necessary to put 
Wallace on the ballot in 50 states is just too 
much to be handled this late in the year, and 
Wallace has no one working on it. Also, he is 
entered in several states--Indiana and 
Michigan among them--where a candidate 
is prohibited from running in November in a 
party different from the one in whose 
primary he participated. Lengthly court 
battles might get him on the ballot, but this 
is not even certain. 
What, then, is the Wallace strategy? 
Consider that he will have around 600 to 700 
delegates commited to him for the first 
ballot. Unless a big Humphrey drive starts 
in Pennsylvania, Wallace could be in a 
position to deal with other candidates for a 
vice-president, busing concessions, 
southern Supreme Court justices, etc. It 
won't be the first time a southerner "sent 
'em a message." 
Looking at the near future, Wallace will 
be in position the next few weeks to severely 
damage Humphrey or Muskie. This he 
could do by drawing blue-collar support in 
Pennsylvania or by winning either Indiana 
or Michigan--or both. He is currently 
favored in Michigan, where busing is an 
extremely touchy issue. 
What, then, are the options availble to "regular" Democratic aspirants like Humphrey, McGovern, and Muskie? First, -they could ignore Wallace and risk a serious split in the party and certain victory for President Nixon in November. This, of 

George Wallace, presidential hopeful, spoke 
to voters in South Bend. Photo by Jim HunT 
course, is hazardous and would reflect 
crippling pride on the part of the 
"regulars." 

The obvious course of action is to simply 
admit that the noisy populist from the South 
is right, and that the leadership of this 
country has indeed been alienated from the 
populace. Senator McGovern seems on the 
way to saying this implicitly already, and 
his scores in Wisonsin reflect this. 
The most beneficial course for the 
Democratic party would be to deal with 
Wallace, accept some of his ideas as valid, 
invite him into the high councils of the 
party, and to move together against the 
Republicans no matter who is nominated. 
This course of action represents ac­
ceptance of "the message." If the 
Establishment refuses to hear the word that 
is coming through loud and clear from the 
people, then they may cease to be the 
Establishment. 

To Flanner, Grace, Dillon: Have a Gentle Thursday and thanks for cverythin~---Sime, Bame, Cull, Patty 
Last Grasp proudly presents 
The Overcoat 
Powerful Russian Award-winner 
Caroll Hall Friday 3:30,7,9 

75c or subscription 

FOR RESERVATIONS AND INFORMATION CALL: 
Bill  Kelly  Chuck Hamilton  Bob Atkinson  
Romy Hames  Joe Hayden Ford  Jordan Motors  
South  Bend  Niles, Michigan  Misawaka  
289-4041  (616) 683-3920  259-1981  

r-------------------------------~------------------------~ 
7Wark, !Ve made reservatitmsforafolmlous river crui\e." 
When you're going on vacation, dial direct and save when you call ahead for reservations. It's simple. For example, to call a resort in Cairo, California, look up the area code in your telephone directory and dial "1"; then the area code and then 555-1212 for Cairo information. There's no charge for this service. Then dial the call yourself and save up to 50% of the cost of a person-to-person call. 

Thursday, April 20, 1972 the observer 

5 
4 to 3 decision 
Court limits conservation action 
By Lyle Denniston 
(c) 1!172 Washington Star 

Washington, April l!J--The Supreme Court, in a 4-to-3 decision, strictly limited today the right of conservation group to go to court to protect the-enVIronment. • 
A group may not file a federal case to protect the outdoors unless it can show that its members have been personally and directly harmed. Justice Potter Stewart wrote for the majority. 
The decision blunted the Sierra Club's attempt to challenge the proposed $35 million Wall Disney resort in California's Sierra Nevada Mountains. 
Disney productions has been granted permits bv two govern­ment departments. to go ahead with a plan to develop mineral King Valley in the Sequoia National Forest and Game Refuge into a major recreational project. 
Today's ruling allows the Sierra Club to try again in lower courts to prove that it or its members would be directly injured by the resort project. 
"No matter how long-standing the interest and no matter how qualified the organization is in evaluating the problem," Stewart commented, "It is not sufficient by itself to render the organization "adversely affected" and thus in a position to sue. 
The opinion did not define the kind of injury which the con­servation groups' members would 

Laird: the bo~nbing 
By John W. Finney (c)l!J72 New York Times 

Washington. April 1!1--Secretary of Defense Melvin R. Laird said today that as long as the North 
Vietnamese continued their in­vasion of the South, any area of North Vietnam was subject to bombing attack by the United States. 
Testifying before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, the Secretary said he would "not rule out the possibility" that the U.S. 
might even blockade or mine the harbor of Haiphong unless the invasion was ended. 
Yesterday, Secretary of State William P. Rogers told the Com­mittee that the Nixon Ad­ministration would continue to take "whatever military action is necessary" to halt the enemy drive. 
At today's session, Laird em­phatically denied reports from Saigon that President Nixon had ordered a suspension of the bombing of Hanoi-Haiphong area 
U.S. atte1npts new Olyntpic progra1n 
(c) 1!172 New York Times 
New York, April I!J--An elaborate training sequence designed to sharpen the American men's track and field team for the Munich Olympics has been approved by the United States Olympic Committee. 
The program will include optional, informal training periods in Oregon and Maine in mid and late-July and a major invitational meet Aug. 2 and 3 in Oslo, Norway. less than one month before the start of the Olympics. 
Robert Giegengack, chairman of the men's track and field committee, confirmed today that the board of directors of the 
U.S.O.C. was unanimous in its support of the program, which would send the men's track and field team to Europe almost three weeks ahead of the official 
U.S. Olympic entourage. 
"A great deal of time, thought and research went into this project," said Giegengack, a former U.S. Olympic coach. "It was agreed that this plan would provide us with the best op­portunity to have our athletes in top shape for Munich." 
U.S. men's track and field trials will be held June 29 to July 9 in Eugene, Ore. A team of 70 athletes will be selected during the competition. 
Athletes who qualify for the squad and who wish to remain in Eugene to continue training 
Staff 

Night Editor: Jim Roe 
Assistant Night Editor: Carol Weiss Day Editor: Jack Kelly Typists: Rick Smith, Ann Conway, 
Dianne Chermside, John Flanigan 

Night Controiier: Little Joe 
have to prove in order to get their challenge into Federal Court. But the opinion said that the harm could be "esthetic and en­vironmental" and thus need not be economic or physical. 
Stewart's opinion was supported by Chief Justice Warren E. Burger and Justices Thurgood Marshall and Byron R. White 
Justices Harry A. Blackmun, William J. Brennan Jr. and William 0. Douglas dissented, and each filed a separate opinion. 
Justices Lewis S. Powell Jr. and William H. Rehnquist were not on the court when the Sierra Club case arose, and thus did not act on the decision. 
In a six-page dissent, Blackmun spoke glowingly of thP-virtues of 



continues 
to see whether there would be any 
political response from the North 
Vietnamese Government. The 
White House underscored the 
denial by saying that Laird was 
"stating the authorized position of 
thP U.S. Governmnet." 
In Saigon, however. official U.S. military sources, to whom the reports were attributed, continued to stand by them. 
Laird branded the Saigon reports as false in response to a reporter's question. He added: 
"The bom-bing continues south of the demilitarized zone, in the demilitarized zone and north of the demilitarized zone." 
Later. during the questioning in his four-and-one-half hour ap­pearance before the Senate Committee. Laird suggested that the U.S. might take the additional step of attempting to seal off Haiphong, the principal port of North Vietnam. 
He said he would "not rule out" the possibility that the U.S. might impose a naval quarantine on Haiphong to stop the entry of ships carrying military equipment, or alternatively mine the channel leading into the harbor. 

informally after the trials will be permitted, Giegengack said. Between July 20 and 29, another optional training program will be instituted at Bowdoin College in Brunswick, Me., where members also will be processed, outfitted and checked physically. 
"Any athlete who has a job or is married and can't report to Bowdoin or leave with the team early for Oslo will be processed through Washington with the rest of the official party," Giegengack said. 
The Amateur Athletic Union has agreed to cover travel arrangements for the American team to Oslo. The A.A.U. is helping to organize the August meet. which will be televised back to the United States that weekend,and talks confidently of staging "a little Olympics," with most of the world's top track and 
field talent expected to compete with the exception of the African nations. 
"The entries of the American team in Oslo will be the responsibility of Bill Bowerman, the coach." Giegengack said. "And there will be no guarantees that a Jim Ryun or a Marty Liquori has to run a mile there. We're not going to allow this competition to interrupt our long-range plans for Munich." 
Nevertheless, the meet may raise eyebrows in international circles, particularly if East Germany and the Soviet Union send more than token entries, as 
A.A.U. officials believe they will, and if international Olympic 
officials feel  the  meet  will  be  
reigning  on  their  parade  in  
Munich later that month.  

In defense of their position, American Olympic officials say 
Alumni Club An Tostal Weekend 
Tonight: BarOpen (Thurs) 
10:00-2 :00 . with 25c Beer & 
Featuring Chris Manion 
Coming Fri: Vodka Night ALL Vodka drinks V2 Price 7:00-12:00 

BAR CLOSED SAT. 
urattmg new legal principles in order to help "perpetuate the wilderness and its beauty, solitude and quiet." 
He protested that the law was being kept rigid in a way that inhibits solutions to environmental problems. and predicted that the Disney project will now hastily proceed to completion and one more wilderness area "will become defaced." 
Douglas said that the Court was ignoring the problem of providing "spokesmen" for the "inanimate objects" of nature. 
Brennan's one-paragraph dissent argued that the court should not only give the Sierra Club the right to sue, but should strike down the Disney project. 
that athletes have over­whelmingly endorsed the idea of having "a real shakedown" before Munich instead of being holed up in training camps getting "cabin fever" from inactivity. 
Giegengack said the American decision to leave early was not ~ithout precedent. 
Wygant Floral Co. 
Flowers for all occassions 
327 Lincoln Way 
West 232·3354 

:ATTENTION ALL GRADUA­TING 

STUDENTS 
1MEASUREMENTS 
I will be taken 
for 



COLLE GIATE 
CAPS 
and 

GOWNS 
Wednesday, 
April 19 
Thursday, 
April 20 
between 
9:00 -4:00 at the NOTRE DAME 
BOOKSTORE 

l, 
~
, 1, , ~ 
,
,
,
, 
,1 ,
, 
,
, 
~ 
, 
l, , , ~ 






THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER  
John Abowd  Jim Jendryk  
News: 283-1715  Editor-in-chief  Business Manager  
EditoriaI: 283-8661 Business: 283-7471  Don Ruane Executive Editor  Ann Druecker Advertising Manager  

Editorials printed in The Observer re_flect the opinion of the writer, on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the individual writer; they are not tp be taken as editorial comment. 
Thursday, April 20, 1972 

Strike-ineffective 
The strike proposed for tomorrow to protest the escalation of the air war in Vietnam will be an ineffective attempt to get the point across to the forces which 
~ have embroiled the United States in the 
r 
Southeast Asian conflict. 
r 
While the strike will calm the con­
r 
r sciences of those sincere enough to attend r the daily organizational meetings, to r paint their faces white, and to march r outside the dining halls and in the r library; it will become nothing more than r an irrational excuse for an academic rip­r off by students who want to hit the links 
r 
early or cut out for Chicago or the dunes
r 
provided there is good weather. 
Deserve Recognition 

r 
Strikers and those who participate in other forms of local protest should be
f 
commended for their efforts to express
r 
the feelings of what may well be a 
~ 
majority of students on this campus. It is through such efforts, and those which are r more effective, that young Americans r can show that they have not given up the 
r 
! 
cause of peace simply because draft quotas have been reduced, and at times cancelled. 
There are several ways Notre Dame's unofficial protesters might utilize to get 
their statement across to the military industrial complex. While the strike and
~ 
other activities may merit a few inches in the local press, and perhaps a little less
~ 
r from the Chicago media, chances are it r will not reach beyond those who patronize r these sources of news.
, 
However, mobilization of the student vote, a vigorous letter campaign to state Congressional representatives, a petitioning drive to awaken the com­munity, and support of prominent faculty and administrators are potentially more influential. 
No one needs to be told the power of the newly enfranchised student, and most can imagine what logistic problems would be created by the influx of an additional thousand or so letters a day could do to a representative's office schedule. Two years ago more than 20,000 signitures were gathered downtown and door to door to protest the Cambodian invasion. People will listen when someone like Fr. Hesburgh denounces the bombing. 
Your Choice 
Actually, when you come down to the individual it is his choice whether to waste his time or not. There is no sense to strike for the sake of saying, "Hey look at, me, this is my way of saying I'm against the bombing," if it is not going to stimulate any more of a response than "O.K.. I hear you. So what." 
While there is no guarantee the above four suggestions will have any better result, there is certainly more potential. The only to make a strike work is to produce enough supporters to at least reach the same scale as two years ago. 
As far as Notre Dame is concerned, there is now way to reach that scale by Friday. If you feel you have to do something to prot.. ~ t the recent escalation do someth:ng tha 1 ~ill at least have a chance to rroduce I }suits. 
The Editorial Board 

Letter ----------the war-another view 
Editor, 
I would like to express my disappointment when I read your editorial, written by Jerry Lutkus, "The Bombing Must be Stopped,"
r 
in the Obsf'rver of Monday,
r 
[ 
April 17. I really never thought that an editorial, not even in the Observer, could be so misleading and prejudiced. Your editorial is 
obviously directed against Nixon and his ideas about the war and I can see why Lutkus wouldn't like Nixon to be reelected. What I don't approve is the use of an editorial containing so many misleading statements, for this purpose. You say that the bombing of North Vietnam is a "senseless, merciless act attempting to merely save face in the wake of a strong Viet Cong offensive." 
Well I think Lutkus forgot to· mention that what the U .S.is trying to stop is not only a Viet Cong of­fensive, but a full scale invasion against the South by the North Vietnamese Army. Lutkus mentions that a "Soviet seaman who was aboard a Russian ship" was killed by the bombing. The cover page said that a Russian officer had been killed. I believe that there is a big difference between a seaman and an officer. 
It seems as if Lutkus thought that it makes no difference for the people of South Vietnam whether the U.S. planes support them or not, or whether it makes no dif­ference that the Communists gain control in the South. I cannot discuss such a broad theme in this space, but I would like to ask you, Jerry, have you ever lived in a Communist system? Well I have and believe me it's no fun. 
Finally, you say "war is· hell" of course it is! But, remember that the general that first said it burned Atlanta immediately afterwards. You may ask yourself why and the answer is simple, he had no choice. 

Neither do we. Either we stop North Viet Nam in its advance or we let them repeat the massacres of past years, because it is not only the U.S., Jerry, the ones that kill people. 
The "innocent and peace-loving" Communists also kill. Two thousand and thirty-two were killed by the Viet Cong in 1965, 1,732 in 1966 and 3,706 in 1967. If you want the numbers for the years before and after I am sure you could find them if you were really interested. But I think that your editorial carried a message, a misleading one, but it doesn't matter. Or does it? Well just to make the war a little more fair Lutkus, don't you think that the 
U.S. should next time drop some flowers instead of bombs? 
Juan Carlos Fernandez 340 Morrissey Hall 

11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
The Wallace show 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIII JaCk KUeSter 
Political rallies always appeal to a voter's emotions as well as to his intellect. But the Wallace rally in South Bend convinced me that this candidate is willing to sacrifice intellectual appeal by aiming his cam­paign at his audience's gut emotions. 
The Governor knows what the people want. The people standing out­side Morris Civic Auditorium waiting to see him demonstrated with Wallace buttons, hats and banners that they wanted Wallace. The line stretched down Michigan Avenue and around the corner. The doors opened at 6:30 as anti-Wallace leaflets were passed out by kids who worked quickly and smiled nervously. 
The colorful <red, white and blue) crowd and the inside of the old Auditorium <which looks like a barn, a Church and the Grand Ole Opry roBed into one) provided the perfect atmosphere for what followed. The whole show began when the Master of Ceremonies (and that is the right term l, a large, white-haired ·southerner with a bright orange jacket, introduced a local minister to give the invocation. The minister mounted the podium and the crowd cheered politely. "Oh Lord," the minister began. "Eat shit," someone cried. Then, 6,000 eyeballs scan the balcony for the pagan who ruined this prayer. "That's disgusting!" says the man seated next to me. It was. 
After the prayer, the M.C. grabbed the microphone, jabed a finger at the balcony and vowed: "That is the sort of junk that George Wallace is going to put an end to." I wondered how he will do that as the crowd goes wild, shakes it fists and Confederate flags at the balcony. They seemed to know how he will end it. That scares me. 
The shaw goes on with a country-and-western band led by Billy Brammer singing "This Ole Town" and requests from the audience.' "I don't want to hear anything new, I won't play it." The old folks stook to yell for tunes from years back. "I played Dixie once." While Billy played, "Wallace Girls" circulated in the crowd and collect for their candidate. TV crews charged up and down the aisles documenting contributions. Billy played "Ya'll Come" and "The Beer Barrel Polka" (a request) and then the M.C. took the mike again waving a $20 bill in his hand and with all the jubiliation of a preacher who has snatched a sinner from the depths of depravity, announced, "This twenty dollars was contributed by Mrs. Betty Randolph (or somebody) sitting out there in the eighth row." "You fool" someone shouted. More junk but Billy Brammer was already into the "Wabash Cannonball" and the crowd was stomping and clapping in time. 
It was the last song because the Governor had arrived. The M.C. an­nounced. "The next President of the United States-George C. Wallace!" The crowd responded thunderously as the man strutted onto stage. He was short, handsome and well-dressed. There were sundry presen­tations, including a hard hat ha handed to Wallace by a black con­struction worker who looked out of place. I wondered what he was thinking and he probably wondered what we thought and I'm sure we both guessed wrong. 
Wallace stepped to the podium and jumped right into his speech, like he just turned the page of a book. "Back in 1964 when I was demanding tax reforms I was called a demagogue and now all six senators are calling for tax reform.~· His deliver was magnificently calculated, fast and, despite what I expected, not perfunctory or routine. He lashed out at taxes, bureaucracy, the war. 
The balcony began to heckle him and. chant, "Go Home George!" and other things· I couldn't hear because George was drowning them out without changing his tone or subject.. He drew in greaf cubic feet of empty air and spewed it back full of denunciations, promises and energy to overwhelm every other sound in the auditorium. 
He began to speak of "pointy-headed intellectuals" using his hands to emphasize and illustrate. The crowd snickered. "Yeah!--Go George. You tell 'em!" The old man sitting across the aisle from me wearing a Wallace button the size of a frying pan was nodding his head faster and harder. He jumped in his seat, clapped, and cheered. I thought he would pass out. 
Wallace talked for about forty minutes. You know what he's going to say before he says it. Taxing, busing, bureaucracy-he's against them. Local control, locally elected federal judges, -he's for them. It's always what the audience wants to hear. 
And then was done, a few handshakes and he was gone. The crowd was moved because he had touched them. He cherishes and respects the same things they do-he understands what they want. They love him and they want him. It's all gut I tell myself as the crowd pours out onto Michigan Avnue and how do you argue with that? I wish I knew. 
-~---­
7

the observer
Thursday, April 20, 1972 



t •k ? 
iohn d. short should we S rI e ·michael dwyer 

All of that is away from Notre Dame and publicly demonstrate their outrage over this
Secretary of State Rogers-tries-to explain styles'? Most interaction between people 
Saint Mary's. New York and Los ~n~eles, escalation of the war. Guerilla theater and 
the massive bombing of North Vietnam to takes place in this type of setting. Aside 
this Saturday, are not here. Thos s1ttmg ~t -leafletting are being started on-these
the people. Nixon quirks: 'We've got to hit from a deep and intimate relationship, 
lunch or in a dorm are all that is here. This campuses. Some have organized hall
'em hard." Barry Goldwater states that we people see us from the vantage of daily off 
is all we got. We think it is potentially ef-representatives and faculty for future ac­
should have done this 9 or 10 years ago. and on activities. It is interesting to 
fective though. We know it has to be after tion this week.
Suddenly people decide that it is time to speculate as to where and how Richard 
we caught ourselves tossing aside the In accordance with our own convictions
discuss violence and non-violence. Nixon sees us. Most can readily guess the 
Chicago Tribune upon reading tije and those of the National Student
That happened Monday night in a Non-answer. 
headlines of the past two weeks thinking, Association, people are .org~_~g_strike on
Violence Seminar. The discussion quickly Nixon too is acting from a philosophy of 
"So what'?" this campus for Friday, April 21. It is
took on a quality of theorization. People ! Vietnamization-something which he was 
There are people on these campuses who designed to coincide with those to be held on
spoke in lofty ideals about the morality of supposedly elected upon. Like most though, 
have already decided that their "day-to-300 other campuses throughout the country 
bombing, killing, and violence in general. he is a clever politician. Are we letting 
day" activities are doing far more violel!ce prior to Saturday's demonstrations. Kathy
We covered everything from Chicago 1968 to "his" daily activities become immersed in 
to this nation than the development of a bfe-Barlow is planning and organizing a day of
Kent State and the latest escalation of the his elegant rhetoric'? What about his in­
style in accord with non-violence. Maybe 1 activities on Friday against this escalation
war in bombing Haiphong and Hanoi. And cidental bombing of Hanoi and Haiphong'? 
this is not the best time to reflect-reflection · with the assistance of other students and
on and on and on.... What about that statement: "We've got to 
seems hellish when people are being faculty.
For most of us, we have discovered that it hit 'em hard"'?'? Is he going to be able to _get 
murdered by the hundreds with the bombs We have personally decided to take in­
is imperative to act from a philosophy -by with this'? Someone must scream out to 
which we supply through our taxes. We are ventory of ourselves. The inventory is long 
from an individualistic life style. Reflec-him STOP! 
impatient and restless and are beginning to overdue and has been hastened by the
tion, growth, and fulfillment begin to take on Some already have--the ND-SMC students 
act here on these campuses. outrageous actions of Richard Nixon. Our
a semblance of reality for us sooner or later. who got together ,.yesterday afternoon , 
Action will be taking place for the readings are not good. We discuss, discuss, 
Suddenly though, someone screams discussing and planning action to take place 
remainder of the week in the Fiesta Lounge evaluate, theorize, moralize and finally ask 
HALT! Stop the action. We are also living-on these campuses. Some have screamed 
of LaFortune at 4:30. We invite all mem-ourselves: "Should we'?" Many are
here and now -April 20, 1972 at the stop in San Francisco and major college 
hers of ND-SMC (students, faculty, and beginning to answer that. We have said
University of Notre Dame. Are we not just campuses on the East and West Coast in­
administration l to join us in our efforts. YES!
as accountable for the consequences of this eluding Columbia, University of Maryland, 
Students are currently organizing a fast to
one day as we are about the morality of life Stanford, and the University of Wisconsin. 
a word to those who mourn fr. robert griffin 
miracles seem a lot like no miracles at all. miracle. Faith must build bridgesb-etween spoke these words to a man crippled from 
"Talk of miracles," said another priest, present sorrows--the death prpclaimed in birth :"I have neither silver nor gold, but I Elijah said to them, I alone. am left as a "just encourages false hopes." I suspect yesterday's headlines, the accident you will give you what I have: in the name of prophet of Yahweh, while the prophets of that he, like myself, was hearing voices in heard about this morning;-and that ancient Jesus Christ the Nazarene, walk!" To those Baal are four hundred and fifty. Let two the background:\ 1"Call louder, for he is a violence reported from a Galilean hillside, of this Campus who are suffering-to those bulls be given us ...You must call on the god; he is pre-occupied or he is busy, or he so that our suffering bears the imprint of who have in very recent days been injured name of your god, and I shall call upon has gone on a journey; perhaps he is asleep nails and wears upon its brow a crown of in senseless accidents and are awaiting mine; the god who answers with fire, is God and will wake up." thorns. As the figures of a Pieta, we wait God's healing--all of us who are campus indeed .... Eventually, the Word of the Lord came under a night sky as mourners praying for ministers, all of us who are Christians, all of 
upon us: "It is an evil and unfaithful the victory of light. Soon, we hope, the dark us who feel compassion, wish we could say From morning to midday they called on the generation that seeks for a sign. The only passion of innocence will be over, and death, to you: "In the name of Jesus Christ the name of Baal.. .but there was no voice, no sign it will be given is the sign of the prophet like winterkill, will be defeated in the Nazarene, walk!" Instead, only the sign of answer ... Elijah mocked them. 'Call Jesus." The sign of Jonas, of course, is the triumph of the life that lives again. Jonas is offered .... the sign of Jesus, the louder,' he said 'for he is a god : he is pre­Resurrection; "as Jonas was in the belly of In he infancy of the Church, St. Peter suffering servant; the sign of Jesus, the occupied or he is busy, or he has gone on a the fish for three days and three nights, so wonderiiig-what we dared hoped for from·. beloved Son, born through suffering to journey; perhaps he is asleep and will wake will the Son of Man be in the heart of the this God of ours Who, if He really wanted to eternal life. up.' ... Midday passed, and they ranted earth three days and three nights." upgrade the market value of the prophetic 
on... but there was no voice, no answer, no At this point, we put our finger upon a office, could make Elijahs of us all. To us, 
attention given to them ... mystery: for to us priests, struggling with hoping for a rain of fire, was given the sign Because we believe in the miracle whose 
the problem of God's silence and searching of Jonas--the sign of the murdered God, born best symbol is the year that blooms again, Then Elijah stepped forward. 'Yahweh, for a sign of His love in the face of tragedy, again like the Springtime in the dark heart we dare pray for the other miracle of God of Abraham, Isaac and Israel,' he said, the Resurrection was presented as our of the earth, Who teaches us the notes of the healing--not because we are wonder­'let them know today that you are God is contemporary miracle. Easter song in the uncertain glory of the worke~s in need of a sign, but because we 
At first, it seemed like a conventional April season. are children of the God of consolations whoIsrael, and that I am your servant...' Then 
the fire of Yahweh fell and consumed the evasion of religion. Here were a bunch of You have to be in an April mood to accept promised to them that mourn that they shall · 
holocaust. .. ' campus prophets licensed by the Pope, the Resurrection as a contemporary be comforted. 
I Kings 18 

myopic physicians? linas sidrys 
of a college professor's salary. The good to give to •bo.se who resoect anN n M n '?
<lne cartoon character asks his doctor: 
"How much do you earn'?" The doctor financial status of a doctor merely reflects Isn't his neglect of the larger issues andRecently, I sat in a meeting of eleven replies: "Oh, about 50 per cent." In a more important characteristic--the the common good typical of the modernpriests, and we considered the news that a average doctor's individualism and in-doctor'lanother cartoon a girl exclaims to herfriend whom we loved was the victim of an friend: "We're going to be millionaires! dependence. This desire to remain Most of today's social problems areincurable illness, doomed to ex­autonomous, and perhaps aloof, has im-related to medicine; the abortion issue is.John was just accepted to med school!"
traordinary suffering· until death some Obviously these jokes exaggerate; but porta~t . effects in our complex doubly pertinent. It not only affects public years from now. A dreamer said, "What we orgamzatwnal society--effects it did not health and medical practice, it directlythey reflect an increasingly prevalentneed is a miracle. Let's organize the attitude among the public. have in the days of country medicine. and greatly detracts from the image of thecommunity into teams of prayer as The transition from general practice to llow many pre-meds are interested in medical profession. Even though thepreparation for a service of healing. Let's the current social and moral problems general public permits abortions forspec~a.lties among doctors in today'sask the Lord for a miracle to cure our friend which closely involve medicine and various reasons: reducing the welfaremedicme has seen a concomitant changewho suffers." 
physicians; abortion for instance'? Not rolls, racist prejudices, saving the U.S.
in the medical doctor's public image. TheShades of Our Lady of Lourdes! A many! The majority of pre-meds choose to from overcrowding or eliminatingprevious fond image of the oldfashionedmiracle, for God's sake! The word itself restrict themselves entirely to the very illegitimate children, it has low regard for doctor; the family friend and self­reeks of the stale odor of incense from the dir~ct, immediate, practical problems the men and the profession that carries itsacrificing worker who rarely got a fullJesus-corners where the old ladies are night's sleep. has now been giving way to which confront them: tests, quizzes, out. The assassin and executionner areforever cornering the Sacred Heart with papers. grades. Pre-med students study as held in low esteem in every society.
that of a greedy, golf-playing specialistprayers for the conversion of Protestant they their lives depended on it--as indeed it A physician's proper function in societywho cares little about the patient per­
nephews, or with requests that the Holy sonally. The American Medical does. They work hard and worry about it is to protect health--not to protect or to 
Spirit needle the family lush into making his even harder. Only occasionally do some destroy it selectively or as he pleases. A"":"or'iation is being heavily attacked forEaster duty. Speak of miracles, if you must­leave their studies long enough to pen an policeman's role is to protect the lives ofbemg stagnant and is socially ineffective-but don't be troubling the good Fathers with Clbviously the old country type docro~ impassioned denunciation for the the citizens. Undoubtedly we would all be expectations ofpriest-magic. It isn't good Sdwlastic or a bitter staire for the Ob-disturbed if a state legislature gave theirwho treated the whole person is much
theology, and it gives religidn a bad name, more appreciated than the modern doctor sPrn·r. protesting the dehumanization of police the power to protect or to kill 
like on of those give-away programs on the narrow restrictions they themselves selectively.
t'ven though he was perhaps more kindly
television. have constructed. As for positive steps--. I would certainly be disturbed if a
than competent. However, there is noOf course it boggles the mind to consider mterest and thought about social, ethical surgeon-abortionist were to operate on me,reason to think that the young doctorhow stunning would be the victory of faith if issues--not much. The idealism· for good or on anyone I know. In small towns, other c?ming out of medical school is any lessYahweh were to directly, publicly answer work is certainly there, but it is a doctors' opinions suffice to stop anykmdly and concerned with the patient--hethe prayers of the Campus Ministry, or of misdirPcted idealism which flounders into surgeons from performing abortions.
is definitely more adroit and effectivethe Community of Holy Cross, or of the .lll exclusive study. into the "work-a-day :\ationally. the AMA has the power to spelltherapeutically. If the men have notpeace freaks assembled at Mass offered for 11 orld atmosphere. It is not an intelligent out the boundaries of proper medicalchanged. why are they appreciated Iess­
the intentions of peace. Only one sign: a \\·hy are they pictured as money-hungry altruism practicd. yet nothing has been done;
blind man cured; a resurrected body; a <lur school counterparts to the AMA, the· nothing has been heard from them.
golfers'? This problem is well worth con­paralytic healed; a graffite (In hoc signo, pre-med and Aesculapian clubs provide Thus although individually modernsidering by the pre-meds-and an answer isvinces! l traced on the night clouds with only social banquets and lectures on how to doctors are as kind and as competent assuggested by considering the pre-meds
fire ... then would the false prophets of Baal ~et accepted to medical school, leaving doctors ever were, their corporate stan~ •
themselves as a microcosm of the wholebe confounded; then would the critics of God situation. Issues such as abortion to the Knights of ding seems to negligent, unintelligent and be put to rout. 
( 'olumbus and gO\'('I'IlllWill majors. 'ineffective. The complexities of modern:In our collective priestly wisdom, none of \\"hen a surgeon questioned aJl.N .D. pre-~o..:tety oemanct excellence not only from 
j
us Eleven dared, as Elijah had done, to ask llow many pre-meds are attracted to med student <4.0 GPA l applying to Har-private medical practice but also frorr.
the God of natural causes to give evidence of medicine by the money'? I think not manv. \'ard about his ideas on abortion he an-social organization. Lacking this, it is ncHis thaumaturgy. The real miracle in Not m?re than by any other paying swered that "he had not thought about it \\onder that the physician's publicsuffering,'' murmured one priest, "is the professiOn. I do not share the opinion of my ~·et"' lie was rejected. When this guy prestige is slipping. Ironically, it ismiracle of acceptance. The true healing is a brother at U.C'.L.A. who thinks that half of graduates from med school he will because the doctors' social organizationhealing of the spirit." The answer was kind its med school students would leave if probably be an excellent researcher and a has remainedin the horse-and-buggy stage of a cop-out, I thought, since invisible financial controls were instituted and a concerned practitioner; but what kind of that the fond image of the horse and buggy doctor's earnings were brought to the level . ~ocial and ethical direction will he be able doctor has been eroded. 
r. 
~ 
•~ 8 the observer Thursday, April 20, 1972 k 
~ ~ ~ ~ 
Lord Chief Justice tries to whitewash Catholic blood 
~ 
l 
• l(•ll!l7:! New York Times•~ 
Bt>lfast Nlll'tht>rn Ireland, April ~ !l--The Roman Catholic minority, n a mood of growing anger, 
t ~ 
reacted bitterly today to Lord Widgery's report on the killing of 
I:3 men by British soldiers in Londonderry last Jan. 30, and
•~ 
Iermed the findings a 
~ 
··whitewash." 
Bernadette Devlin, a mid-Ulster ~ member of Parliament, called i~ord Widgery, the Lord Chief
l 
~ 
Justice, who headed the inquiry, ·a liar." Ivan Cooper, a political leader in Londonderry, said angrily: "I 
~ have no hesitation to say that Lord Widgery has been dishonest in the eyes of many people in this city
•~ 
and he is nothing short of an ac­
~ 
cessory to the actions of the paratroopers."
"" 
~ 
Although today's report pinned some blame on Army tacticst during Londonderry's "Bloodyl Sunday," Lord Widgery's con­
l 
~ clusion that a sniper opened fire first at paratroopers left Catholics 
furious. Virtually the entire Catholic community here believes that the soldiers were unprovoked, and fired indiscriminately at the huge demonstration in the Bogside area. 
The report. coupled with the killing last Saturday of a popular Irish Republican Army leader, Joseph McCann, has turned the 
-wtfioTics with renewed fierceness against the British Army and government. including William Whitelaw, the new secretary of State for Northern Ireland. More than three weeks after Catholics had largely welcomed the im­position of direct rule by Britain, the minority is, once again, sullen. 
·'The Widgery report will have the effect of lessening still further zmr. Whitelaw's and the British government's credibility with the anti-unionist population." said Kevin McCorry, the key organizer of the militant Northern Ireland Civil Rights association. 
"It comes at a very critical time. The Widgery report is the whitewash we feared it would be. The report is an attempt to excuse murder by saying that the army was provoked," McCorry added. 
Catholic moderates were angry too. "I think it is the best recruitment pamphlet for the I.R.A. I have seen in a long time," said Tom Conaty, chairman of the Central Citizens Defense Com­mittee, a powerful group in Belfast's Falls Hoad Ghetto. "It destroys the credibility of anyone who says, 'Give Britain a chance. She will do the right thing,"' 

In Londonderry. James Wray, whose 22-year-old son was one of the 13 victims, said simply: "I am glad I fathered the son who died, rather than fathered the son who murdered him.'' 
:\nd Father Edward Daily, a priest who testified before Lord Widgery, said: "I'm flab­bergasted. It's a disgraceful report." 
The anger over the report's 
findings--which criticized the Civil Rights Association for organizing the illegal march-­followed a surge of violence that has struck Northern Ireland since the weekend. 

Today. the body of 33-year-old James Elliott--the father of three children--was found on a deserted road outside Newtown-Hamilton, near the border with the Irish republic. Elliott, a Presbyterian m!'mb!'r of the Ulster Defense Hegiment, a part-time militia, had been shot through the head and tied up in a rubber sack. Around the body were six claymore mines as well as 200 pounds of explosives and a large bomb. 
Elliott was kidnapped at gun­point Monday night near the border town of Newry as he crossed into the North driving his company's truck. In recent months, the Ulster Defense regiment has been a target of the I.H.A. 
Through the night this bleak capital was torn by sporadic terror. An army spokesman said that there were 21 shooting in­cidents, mostly shots fired at patrolling British soldiers: 
The army has pointed out in a statement that both the official and provisional wings of the I.R.A. have intensified the terror cam­paign in recent days "in an ap­parent effort to rally support for a policy of continued violence." 
Army officials say privately that in the last few days a token solidarity has been established b!'tween hoth wings of the I.R.A., 
U.S. resuntes N. Vietnant bo~nbing 
Saigon, Thursday, April 20-­

After a pause of two days in which only a handful of bombing missions were flown over North Vietnam, the United States command resumed the air campaign Wed­nesday with more than 125 strikes, according to informed officers. 
All the raids were in North Vietnam's southern panhandle, below the 20th parallel, according to the officers. 
ThE' officers said that "Only a handful" of raids were made in North Vietnam Monday and Tuesday, after Sunday's massive raids over Hanoi and Haiphong-­the latter being the principal entry port for war supplies. No raids as far north as Hanoi or Haiphong have been flown since, according to the officers. 
The United States command has maintained official silence about the raids. American officers close to the planning for the air war say that the two-day letup was design!'d to permit an assessment of the raids' political effect by the Nixon Administration. 
The targets for the increased number of raids Wednesday were "logistical" in nature, the officers said. In the previous raids, which h!'gan April 6, such targets in­rluded petroleum storage areas, roads. bridges, and airfields. 

Am!'rican planes also have been hitting surface to air missile sites and antiaircraft artillery positions just north of the demilitarized zone to eliminate the threat they pose to Am!'rican and South Vietnamese airplanes flying bombing missions in support of Saigon Government troops below it. 
The raids over Haiphong and the 

Vietcong begin major spring offensive 
((') Ul7:! Nt>w York Times 
By ('raig R. Whsitney 

Saigon, April 19 -North Viet­namese and main-force vietcong troops overran a district town on 
.the central coast 45 miles north of l~uinhon, causing heavy casualties to the South Vietnamese battalion defending the town and forcing the government to withdraw, Whitnt>y senior military officials in t>leiku said Wednesday. 
The heavy fighting in the Hoaian district came with simultaneous attacks on several other cities in Binhdinh Province, the most heavily populated on the Central Coast, where another main-force North Vietnamese regiment has for the last 10 days cut the strategic highway 19 at the Ankhe · 1ss between Quinhon and Pleiku. ''he loss of the first district town he central military region II in current North Vietnamese cks was seen by senior officers l)e headquarters in Pleiku as .Jiling the beginning of major 
.;ified activity in the highlands ,.n, which has long been ex­·d to be the focus of the of­e this year. 
senior american adviser of gion, John Paul Vann, said in Ll that the North Vietnamese division, which infiltrated ·llong the Ho Chi Minh Trail 

to Kontum Province in . try, had moved east to Binh­<'rovince, and that other \jot Vietnamese units in the ·nm ams would possibly begin to .. ltac·!< m earnest in the next 72 
'HI 
single most important · this year may well prove heen in II Corps," he said, to the military region II 
·1g the 12 provinces of the teltion. w phase in the fighting m 
'.'e-week-old communist 
lffensive also was apparent Vednesday in Auangngai Province orth of Binh Dinh. 
There; -over the last four days, according to senior American officers in Danang, main-force Vietcong units, taking advantage of the movement of the large South Vietnamese army units out of the coastal lowlands to counter North Viet­namese reinforcements in the mountains, have laid waste to a dozen towns in Son Tinh District on the Batangan Peninsula of Chulai, resulting in an estimated 10,000 refugees. 
On the other fronts there were these developments: 
Communist attacks in Binh Long Province north of Saigon continued to intensify as North Vietnamese forces estimated at more than 20,000 men continued to move east from Cambodia. There ws heavy fighting up and down the length of highway 13 through the Province, with at least four more North Vietnamese tanks reportedly spotted moving south toward Binh­duong Province closer to Saigon. 
In that province, the Fifth 
Division's base camp at Laikhe 
came under enemy mortar attack 
early Wednesday morning. A 
regiment of the division has been 
!'ncircled at Anloc, the Binhlong 
Province -capital, for more than a 
week and a 10,000-man relief force 
has been unable to break its way 
through the North Vietnamese 
lines and move North of the high­
way into Anloc. 
News reports from Cambodia also suggested that North Viet­namese troops may be sweeping through Preyveng Province and trying to make an end run around the government forces in Binhlong, and open another front west of Saigon from Highway 1, the main road between Saigon and Phnom penh. 
South Vietnamese troops on the far northern front in Quangtri Province held off North Viet­namese attacks to the West of Quangtri city Tuesday and Wenesday, aided by B-52 strikes that rained nearly 1000 tons of bombs on Communist troop con­centrations in the mountains seven miles west of the Province capital. 

IBEsr BANos IN rowN 
-Two Bands a nightI-Dancmg 6 nights a week 
(closed Monday.) -No cover on Tues., Wed., Thurs. -Open till 2 a.m. 
· Une stop entertainment center" 


Cocktail Lounge Bowling Billiards 
Sf.u/a's vi\lite C/ut
• 

2802 SOUTH I I tl1 ROAD NILES, MICHIGAN 49120 
616/683-4350 
!'arlier strikes below the 20 parallel last week involved B-52 heavy bombers as well as smaller fighter-bombers, which between April9 and April 15 flew a reported 275 sorties in the North Vietnamese panhandle. 

in an effort to kl'ep Catholic ghetto ar!'as from responding to London's initiative m imposing direct rule. Pndmg the half century of l'rot!'stant dominance of Ulster. 

One way from JFK. London, Paris, or Amsterdam. Round trip $195. 
Student power does it! Our inter­national service just for students gets you special jet air fares to and throughout Europe. Confirmed seats, pre-scheduled departures. Complimentary meals and bar service. Avoid higher summer rates by booking now. Also flights to Tel Aviv, Zurich. Frankfurt. Rome, Athens, and others. For full information callM 
(212) 986-8980 or matl coupon 
National Union of Students Travel Service, Inc. 30 E. 42nd St., NY., N.Y. 10017 
Name___________________ 
Street_________ 
City__________ 
State & ZiP-----­

STUDENTS AND FACULTY 21 ANDOVER 
RENT-A-PINTO 
A DAY s~ A MILE Bill Kelley CALL Romy Hammes 
Chuck Hamilton Bob AtkinsonFordland 
Joe Hayden Ford Jordan MotorsSouth Bend Niles, Michigan Mishawaka 


Thursday, April 20, 1972 the observer 9 

Wallace speaks to Mid-A~nerica via I down ho111eI fanfare 
by Jerry l.utkus Observer Nl"ws Editor 
The man was quite large ana just over six foot tall. He wore a fire-engine red blazer with Wallace '72 printed on the breast pocket and he screamed out to the crowd, "This is Wallace Country." 
George Mangrum was speaking to an overflow crowd at the Morris Civic Auditorium in South Bend on Tuesday night prepping them for the arrival of Governor George Corley Wallace of Alabama. 
Mangrum bellowed out to the crowd that the Wallace entorage had been in Detroit a few nights ago and they drew nearly 10,000 people in back-to-hack rallies. He cried that this happens every where Governor Wallace goes. 
Morris Civic never looked any better. There was a huge red­white-and blue draped podium in the center of the stage and to the right of the podium Billy Gramer and his country-western group played their foot stompin music 
Observer News Feature 
The crowd was mostly middle­aged, the gentlemn sported crew cuts and the ladies dressed conservatively. All of them were covered with their red,white and blue stickers that holered Wallace for President. Gramer was playing their kind of music, the music they remembered for the days when they were younger. 
The atmosphere was high­
charged with excitement. The Governor was coming to speak to an average citizen and Mr. and Mrs. Middle America turned out in force. 
Gramer's job was to entertain the folks, on the surface, but in truth he seemed to be there to build up the exictement and energy of the crowd. After every few songs, Mangrum, who served as the MC, would ap­proach the microphone and talk about Wallace. 
Then Gramer would play again. Ashe went into playing "I Wanna Go Home," he introduced it as a tale of a boy who went to the Motor City, but couldn't go 
metaphorical order 
home becaue he didn't have any more money. Gramer said that the government had taken it all away in taxes. "When Governor Wallace becomes President, we won't have to worry about that." The crowd broke into loud and' lengthy applause and then stomped along as Gramer sang. 
The psychology of the situation was amazing. The band would stir the people up and then Mangrum would come out and talk about Wallace and then over to the band to settle 'em down and then Mangrum would stir 'em up again. This all built up until Wallace was about to come onstage and then Mangrum rushed and hollered "Without further adieu I give you, Governor George C. Wallace." And Morris Civic Auditorium went birds. The hall resembled the heart of the confederacy as the rebel flags popped out from all corners. Signs by the hun­dreds appeared screaming, "Wallace tells it like it is," "Bus the Senators, Judges and Burocrats," and "Send them a message, vote Wallace." 
Wallace stood near the front of the stage accepting the appaluse graciously and saluting· the audience. He was surprisingly short with light brown hair. His suit was inspiringly neat and 
trim.  His composure  was  ob­ 
vious.  
The  whole  performance  was  
keyed  to  middle  America,  the  

average citizen, the rank and file. Three presentations took place as Wallace came to the poidum. A young girl voted the "Prettiest Majorette in Indiana" presented Wallace with a baton. Then he was given an authentic 
Wallace Scotch plaid tie, finally two "rank and file laborers" offered the governor a white hardhat with an American flag on it. One of the workers was a black man, the only one to be seen throughout the night. 
The build-up to Wallace's appearance was marred by heckling only once, though his speech was often interrupted. The only heckling came when a preacher gave the invocation for the evening. As he began, a heckler shouted an obscenity from the balcony. Upon com­pletion, Mungrum rumbled back onstage and used the heckling to Wallace's advantage. "That's the kind of junk that Americans are getting fed up with," he bellowed. "People don't even have the common courtesy to shut their traps when a man of God is invoking his name." The hall again broke into cheers and a standing ovation which lasted close to two minutes. 

The Mungrum offered the people "an opportunity to give." A group of young schoolgirls then circulated through the audience collecting from the people. Again, the average citizen, down home approach came out. Mungrum searched out a woman in the crowd who had given $20. Then came the litany of "Thank Ya Man, God Bless Y Mam's." 
The MC confessed to the people that "There's no big foundation giving us money. We depend on Mr. and Mrs. Middle America. We nickel and dime our way across America." Wallace's speech hammered home at the point that the whole performance was keyed to -the average citizen. Not only did he say it in his speech, but even the little things were geared in that direction . . . the presentations from the majorette and workers, the country-western band, the thank ya mam's, the preacher. Everything went to the people. 
Even the way that Wallace appeared went to the people. When Humphrey came to South Bend, he met with the Press and small groups of Democratic leaders. Wallace comes to South Bend and he speaks to the people. 
The Governor is conscious of his strength and where it lies. He builds on it and he works it over. He speaks to the little man and the little man reacts. It's questionable if Wallace really can do anything for the little man in America, but he is also the first one to speak directly to him. But no matter what happens, whether he wins or loses, George 
C. Wallace has gone to the people in a style much like that of An­drew Jackson, he's trying to become one of us. And the people are buying it. 
Gass lectures on life1S order 
By Bt>th Hall 
In a lecture entitled "Measurement and Metaphor", novelist William H. Gass spoke of man's concern for creating metaphors or models to measure and order the chaos of life. 
Before the small group in Carroll Hall yesterday af­ternoon, Gass outlined the process by which man makes a metaphorical order, in life as well as in poetry and fiction. 
A basic problem to man, ac­
cording  to  Gass,  is  the  
measurement  of  nature,  "the  
movements  around  us,  too  
vague,  too  numerous,  too  

transitory to number." Man puts things in life in terms of numbers and v•ords to give them an order. By fastening names to chaotic elements man makes them a part of a master plan and provides a means of measuring and classifying them in what Gass called "an informing visual field." 
Once a name has been given to something, that object takes on the properties of the model it has been provided. For example, Gass described the order of human behavior as a moael named society. in which man adopts the behavioral pattern prescribed by that society. 
Gass described fiction as "a 
big metaphor. a model with 
tremendous scope." A good 
metaphor is one which fits into a 
pattern so that the named object 
"possess all the properties seen 
in light of the name." The depth 
of a metaphor would then be the 
"degree to which it is analogous 
to the object." 

take metaphors and models as 
r~ality. He said. "A model may 
giVe us order. but contradictions 
will occur if a metaphor is carried too far. Books are found by getting to books. The real world is found only by getting to the real world." 
A former philosophy professor at Washington University in St Louis. Gass is author. of Willi~ Master's Lonesome Wife, Omensetter's Luck, Fictions and Figures of Life, and a collection of short 
And working for Christian Unity? We are members. of a young, American, Franciscan 
fti!o.OlftBi·Commumty which is a bit different: our life work is the reunion of separated Christians. How about spending a weekend with us in searching for vocation thru prayer and Christian Fellowship? Both men and women are invited 
April 21 -23. · 
For details call: Peter Canauan, S.A. 7735 
Arth r thro, S.A. 8814 


PLACEMENT BUREAU 
JOB INTERVIEWS 

BETHLEHEM STEEL CORPORATION 
Monday, April 24 
DEGRERS: B.S. in M.E. and M.E.I.O. LOCATION: Burns Harbor, Indiana (on Lake Michigan) FOR: Management Development Program (Loop Course) 
Interested Students should sign up immediately in Room 207, Main Building. 


BE'I*I'ER LOOKING AT UNION with CONTACT LENSES 
No hassle. Slip into the action with better vision without bother. Contact l.erises help you ~ee better, keep you looking great. Feel free to join the action with contact lenses ... You get better looking at Union. 
Phone 

Eddard and Baron take pride in announcing -direct from 
Ft. Lauderdale -"Barbara" . and South Bend's "Chris". 
Men's hair stylist  
from  Ft.  Louder~  
dole  
Award  winning  
men's hair stylist  

HAIR SPECIALISTS 
in . . . 

1. 
Sensuous slithering layer cuts 

2. 
The British Shag with kittles 

3. 
Sculptured hair styling 

4. 
Floridian soft hair look 

5. 
Specialists in hair weaving 


CHRIS 
Men's hair stylist 
and hair analyst 
of Redken Labor· 
atories, Von 
Nuys, Calif. and South Bend. 

CALL 259-7679 for APPOINTMENT 

HAIR STYUNG, LTD. 1321 £. lclilley Ill., Iiiii. (111tllllr It .....PIIMunl 
.. 
Thursday, April ~0, 1972

10 
the observer 

Duncan reads, sings own works 

by Steve Lazar 

San Francisco poet Robert Duncan concluded the fourth day of the week-long Sophomore Literary Festival last night by reading and singing a number of his works to a large audeince in the Library Auditorium. 
Duncan referred to his public reading as a "trip" and ex­plained that he wished to present a variety fo his styles to the audience along the way. Stating that "I love Jarkness in and of itself," Duncan told his audience that if perchance some peoms appeared obscure to them, they would remain certainly no less obscure to himself. 
• 
Several of Duncan's first readings seemed to present aspects of his poetic philosophy. In a poem dedicated to a poet­friend of his <Duncan pointed out 
that such dedication-bearing po.;ms as this are actually "letters" to another person), Duncan stated that "from what 

Light sculpture exhibit showing in Fieldhouse 
Illuminated Forms II, an exhibition of sculpture in light, opened Tuesday at the Fieldhouse. Conceived and built by Bill Barnes and Jim Byer, graduate students in th~ Fine Arts Department, the exhibition will end with tonight's 7:30-9:30 showing. 
The sculptures. six in number, are created from tubular neon lights and bricks, dirt, and logs. On the darkness shrouded main floor of the Fieldhouse, they stand out as highlights of brilliant colour and muted, coloured shadows. 
According to Dyer, the work be~an about two months ago with a general plan to "utilize the prime space of floor area," the huge dirt-floored center room of the Fieldhouse. "because of the space available here," Dyer explained, "it allows us to work in neon lighting. The Fieldhouse gives a closed enviornment with the effect of outdoor space." 
In some pieces, notably a con­struction of large free-standing loops of light, the light tubes themselves are structural elements. In others, the light is reflected off and among the massive bulks of tree trunks, and within long brick latticeworks. The use of naturalistic elements is stressed. 
Many of the pieces are so arranged as to present two dif-

Chinese team vs. the U.N. 


Ping-pong balls fly 
by Murray Schumach The Chinese gave the mayor a 
<c> 1972 New York Times 
Chinese scroll and assurance that to them, friendship was moreUnited Nations, N.Y., April 19-­important than whether they wonThe ping pong ball, having induced or lost a game.

the United States and the Peoples The mayor, when asked aboutRepublic of China to say polite his ability as a table tennis player, things to one another, became an said:international symbol tonight as the "I do play table tennis oc­visiting Chinese ping pong team casionally. I get soundly blasted by performed at the United Nations. 
my children."
The invincible visitors took on a 

ferent aspects, one effect when viewed up close, and others when 
viewed  at  a  distance  and  from  
different angles.  
The  constructions,  all  non­ 

permanent, will be dismantled after tonight's final exhibition. 
L* mock convention 
Agenda set by Committee 
The Rules Committee of the Mock Democratic Convention met Wednesday night to discuss thethe rules and procedures for the convention. Blake Wordal of the South Dakota delegation was elected chairman. Attendance was very poor and the chairman expressed concern for the en­thusiasm of the convention. 
The Committee passed an agenda for the upcoming con­vention. Some suggestions were discussed as to the election of the presidential candidate. The simple majority rule electing the party's candidate was challenged in favor of a two­thirds majority election. The committee deferred action on the challenge until the next meeting where there will hopefully be more delegates. 
team from the United Nations for the benefit of the United Nations International School as well as world amity. 
Symptomatic of the good will of the visitors was the resignation 

with which they accepted a makeshift court that was put down in 24 hours in the Trusteeship Council room. 


During a preliminary brief tour of the building, when the players first walked onto the sawdust­

CJeut8

smelling boards and made ten­t~tive leaps to test its resiliency, 
one of the players talked briefly, through an interpreter to C. V. 
Sapphire 
Narasimhan, under-Secretary General who was acting as a guide. ·'He said," Narasimhan said 

18k.Jewefr8

later, "that the court is too small. I told him it was the best we could do, and that we even covered some steps below to make it bigger. He 
cal/ us ..• 

was willing to make the best of the situation.'' The match was the climax to the team's first visit to New York, 
::lJiamonJ .!Import Compa11!f 
after having toured Canada and 
THE ULTIMATE IN DIAMONDS 
several points in this country. 
Seen by Appointment
The click of ping pong ball 

Suite 602
against paddles came following a 
St. Joseph Bank Building
visit to city hall where the 13 players, including six women, 
South Bend, Indiana 
Phone 287-1427
received the key to the city and ties 
with the city emblem. The players, who wear Mao jackets, do not wear ties. 
we call poetry a bird I cannot name crows." In an excerpt from a masque wicch he wrote in­volving Adam, King Samuel, and the Archangel Michael, Duncan concluded with the following words: "Thus poetry resembles the works of things, and Adam must find himself in Eve." 
In a work called "The Fire" Duncan attempted to create a kind of poetry which does not exist within a boundary. To do this he opened and ended the poem by speaking a sequence of single, isolated words, of various parts of speech, each word separated from the next by a well measured length of time. He explained that "Each word exists in a world of itself and can be related to the others as a resonance.'' Between these openi ·nd ending passages of the 1.>· , Duncan recited more convent wnal verses of poetry, seemin\' there to treat the topic of ex1"tence of evil in the political order. He accompanied this central section of the poem throughout with a four-beat movement of his hands, much as if much as if he were conducting a musical exercise. 
Following this poem, Duncan sang a composition of his own which could loosely be termed a lovesong. Entitled 'Song of the Old Order' the piece moved through a number of verses and refrains, touching as it went on such objects as knights and ladies and the seasons of spring and fall. 
After a short intermission Duncan read his eight finished sections of a proposed ten-piece suite,written in the style of the metaphysical poets around 1590­1609. Among -the poets Duncan imitated, though with his own manner of treating themes, were George Herbert and Sir Walter Raleigh. 
Duncan will appear again today with Diane Wakoski and Allen Ginsberg as part of a poetry symposium to be held at 
3:30 today in the Library Auditorium. 

SIMERI S 
Happy Hour 7 to 10 pm 64% pitcher Bud. $1.32 
-PIZZA-Italian sandwiches Spaghetti & Sea foods 
liQUOR & COLD CARRY OUT 
Free use of dining room 
410 N. HILL 

Clothes and things Men's Boutique 

"On the Mall" • McKinley Town & Country Shopping Center· Mishawaka, Indiana Phone 25&­
7:135 

aturday, April 22, SB Armory, 9 to 

An Tostal Irish Wake 
Advance ticket Sales onlyI Limited Ticket Supply 
$3.00 per couple only 
Buses leave Circle:  8:30, 8:50,  
9:10,9:30  
Tickets on sale  

Thurs. in Dining Halls and the Huddle at Noon 2 bands unlimited refreshme-nts 
(It v1ill NOT be a SO's party) 

,-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
• 

Thursday, April 2o, 1972 the observer 1 1 
First teams dominate scrimmage 
by Vic Dorr the week) and Jim O'Malley (out down. 
The Fighting Irish football team with a knee strain) forced a cluster The conversion attempt, a pass held its third scrimmage of the of turnovers by .the second offense from quarterback Tom Clements spring season yesterday, and the and kept alive its record of being to tight end Steve Quehl, fell in­two-hour workout was dominated unscored-upon in spring ball. complete. by the play of ND's number one The scrimmage opened with the The second score was nearly as units--both on offense and defense. second offense in possession, but quick. Jim Musuraca recovered 
Although the first-line offense lheir drive ground to a halt after Ron Goodman's fumble on the blue started hot and finished hot, they Ronnie Goodman scampered for a 15, and Cliff Brown moved his showed some traces of the mid-16 yard gain on the first play from team in from there. Brown got the scrimmage doldrums which scrimmage. Brian Doherty, who touchdown on a one-yard dive, but plagued them in Saturday's handled the punting for both the conversion failed again. workout. Still, the first "0" scored teams, spiralled a kick to the 27 Pat Steenberge, who shared the six touchdowns during the af-yead line and the first offense took controls of the second offense with ternoon, and their efforts against over. They scored immediately. Bill Nyrop, tried unsuccessfully to the second defense were Halfback Darryll Dewan took a get his team moving through the highlighted by the return to action pitchout and started to sweep air when he regained the ball. of sophomore half-back Greg Hill, towards the left sideline. But he Defensive back Ken Schlezes in­and by the unveiling of a little-used pulled up short of the line of tercepted a Steenberge pass and offensive weapon -the halfbakc scrimmage, stopped, and whipped -i"eturned it 25 yards to the blue 37, pass. a long pass down the sideline to whenre the first offense took over. 
The number one defense, though wide receiver Willie Townsend. The Irish "0" moved the ball to without the services of regular The ball was slightly underthrown, the 15,: and soph Greg Hill tried linebackers Tim Sullivan (who but Townsend caught it and outran another option pass--this time on a underwent knee surgery earlier in the defense for a 73-yard touch-sweep right. Hill couldn't get the throw away, so he pulled the ball down and scrambled his way to the




Fanning: early honors 
seven. Three plays later Andy Huff cracked the middle of the line for the third TD of the day. Freshman Tom Clements got the conversion on a qb keeper. 
The first team blues cooled off following their third touchdown, and it took them a while to regain their momentum. When they did, it was Greg Hill who got things rolling. 
Hill. running from a wingback slot, grabbed a 15-yard toss from Brown at the 32-yard line of the second defense, then took a hand-first offense. 
off for a gain of seven more score of the day. Hill got the big yards. Huff bucked his way to the gainer, a 17-yard burst to the six, 13, and Clements snuck to the four and Huff got the score on a six­before Dewan capped the drive by yard slant. Dewan was halted sweeping left end for the tally. short on the conversion try. Clements again found the end zone 'fhe first offense cranked up a 70­on the conversion try. year drive for its final scoring 
effort. Clements kept the driveJunior linebacker Mike Webb alive with an 18 yard scramble tointercepted Fill Nyrop at the blue the gold 33, and Huff ended it with 42-yard line to put the first offense a four-yard, second-effort score.
back into threatening position, and Brown found William Townsend inthe blues moved in for their fifth the end zone for the conversion. 
Notre Dame's standout fresh­Irish grapplers last season, in­man heavyweight wrestler, Mike cluding a Notre Dame record of Fanning, has been named to the 20 pins. 
OBSERVER
Amateur Wrestling News' The 6'6, 250-pounder also "Freshman-Sophomore" All­established Irish marks for the American team. fastest pin (19 seconds), most team points (115), most dual 
SPORTS 
Fanning, a native of Tulsa, meet wins ..(14) and consecutive 
Okla., and one of only two fresh­pins (12), while leading coach men on the ten-man squad, Terry Mather's club to an 11-4 posted a 25-1-1 record for the season. 
Stickmen dump U. M. in overtime 


by Andy Scantlebury In the fourth quarter, Michigan's of the session. and the referee ruled no goal. 
It was a long time in coming, but Don Holman gave the Wolverines In the second overtime stanza The game entered the third when it did, the victory was very, the lead which held till Ed Hoban both teams came close but the overtime period, but this one was very sweet. After three years of tied thecontest with five minutes to defense continually made the big sudden death and Notre Dame's bitter frustration, the Notre Dame play. The 4-4 deadlock went into play. Then, with 25 seconds Jim Brown ended things quickly.Lacrosse team stopped the the first overtime session and Rich remaining, Holman took ad­Picking up a loose ball in the University of Michigan and they Mullin gave the Irish a quick lead vantage of an Irish defensive lapse Michigan zone the juniordid it in wild fashion. winning in , wth a goal at the 0:35 mark. A and twalked in alone on Simmons. midfielder made a great move and sudden death overtime, 6-5. questionable roughing call on His high shot beat the Irish beat a bewildered Johnson with a 
A surprisingly large crowd. defenseman Bill Foley gave the goalie,but the ball rebounded hard hard shot to the short side. It was a ignored the threat of rain and saw Wolverines the man advantage out of the cage. The alert Simmons great play, but more importantly, an evenly fought contest al}d_they quickly tied the score at picked up the ball and hustled the Irish had their biggest win of highlighted by great goaltending, 2:16 WbTch held for the remainder down field, running out the clock, the year.
clutch shooting, and a mystery 
goal which will have Michigan 
players talking for a long time. 
The Iirsh took a 1-0 first quarter lead when attackman B. J. Bingle beat Michigan goalie Jay Johnson at 4:25. The second quarter was similar to the first. Bingle, who gets better with each game, scored his second goal at 4:45. Michigan came back with a great deal of offensive pressure, but Irish goalie Paul Simmons was brilliant. The Wolverines did get on the scoreboard at 11:32, with at· tackman Carl Burns getting the marker, but the Irish left the field witha 2-1 lead at halftime. 
The third quarter saw Michigan's Skip Flanagan score twice, and Notre Dame's Ed Hoban once, but the highlight of the period was the goaltending of Simmons and Johnson. Both were spectacular with Simmons stop­ping Flanagan twice from in close, ~nd Johnson shutting the door on Bingle in a break away. 


ND Coach Ara Parseghian turned the scrimmage over to his third units after that, but the number three offense was not able to generate a TD. The scrimmage ended with a field goal drill, and Bob Thomas capped the day's work by splitting the uprights with a 47 varder. 
The Irish gridders will resume practice Friday and will hold their next scrimmage Saturday af­ternoon in the Stadiun .. 
bookstore b-ball 
by Lefty Ruschmann 
Rain showers and four over­time contests marked Round Three of Bookstore Hysteria yesterday as the favored teams continued to advance. In the marathon game of a long evening, the Dogs outlasted the Zephyrs, 34-32, even though the Zephyrs played a man short during overtime, thanks to an ankle injury. 
Mike Hinga and Leon Hart, Jr. led Leo's Lunchmeats past the White Pearls in a 31-29 war of attrition. In other OT action, the Holy Joes downed the Round­balls, 24-22, and the Marksmen got past the Mau Maus, 24-22. 
Capping last night's schedule was the Anvil Chorus' 21-19 defeat of Twenty-One, played in total darkness and pouring rain. 
Commissioner Vince Meconi, speaking at a late-night press conference in Morrissey Hall, announced that the Mangy Moose has been placed on probation for recruiting violations. The Moose will be barred from post-season and TV contests for the next three years. Meconi also censured the Bookstore referees, himself .. included, for "continued slipshod performance" and threatened to fine refs who persist in their sloppiness today. Fine money will go toward defraying costs of running the Bookstore. 
Bookstore B-Ball Results 
Wednesday's Games The Boys 21 Mellow People 13 Dogs :1-t Zephyrs 32 Leo's Lunchmeats :u White Pearls 29 Twenty one 21 Mangy Moose 16 Marksmen 2-t Mua Maus 22 Hawks and Geese 21 Stanford Deviants 12 City Bounds 21 Zippers 12 Holy Joes 24 Roundballs 22 Exhibitionists 21 Last Gasp 15 Anvil Chorus 21 Twenty one 19 
• 
Thursday, April 20, 1972

12 
the observer 

China affir1ns Vietnaiil aid 
((') l!li2 New York Times News St>n·ice 
April 19---Premier Chou En­Lai said in an interview televised nationwide in the United States today that China would support Notth Vietnam to the end in its fight against the "U.S. Govern­ment's war of aggression." 
In an interview filmed on April 5 just after the North Vietnamese thrust across the demilitarized zone and the resumption of the American bombing of the North, the Chinese Premier said: 
"If the U.S. government's war of aggression against Indochina does not stop, so long as the war con­tinues, no matter in what forms, including that of 'Vietnamization', and the bombings are expanded, the free Indochina peoples can 
.... 
only fight on, fight to the end and the Chinese people will certainly support them to the end." He said that there could be no relaxation of tension in Asia until the war in I~h.ina had ended. The interview in Peking by a British freelance journalist, Felix Greene, was the first granted by Chou to a western newsman since President Nixon's trip to China in 
February and the stepped-up fighting in Vietnam. His remarks translated from Chinese, were telecast on the National Broad­casting Company's early morning "Today" show. 
Chou characterized Nixon's visit as "at least a start" toward un-' derstanding each other's views and expounding respective positions. 
"Both sides express the desire to seek the relaxation of international tensions, first of all the tension in the Far East," the Chinese Premier said. 
-''In my opinion, if the United States does not withdraw its armed forces from Indochina and cease supporting the puppet regimes ~nd rightist forces in these countries, the war in Indochina cannot stop and thus it will be impossible to ease the tension in the Far East." 
Asked wheter any secret agreements mi~ht have been reached between the U.S. and China, Chou said that there could not "Possibly be any secret agreements" because of the "<'ssential differences between the fundamental systems and foreign policies of the two countries." 
The Chinese Premier also said 

that the Japanses government's policies of -economic expansion "will inevitably lead to military expansion." 
He said that Japanese military expansion was need to protect the country's economic expansion. He accused the Japanese Government of "energetically reviving militarism and publicly an­nouncing that it seeks military expansion in South Korea, Taiwan and Southeast Asia." 
"Since both sides express such a desire, the question is to see whether future action is taken accordingly. As things stand now, the most outstanding question in the Far East remains that of the 
U.S. War of aggression against Vietnam and Indochina. 
"If this is not stopped," Chou 

"the  first  victim  will  be  the  
Japanese people."  
Premier  Eisaku  Sato  and  

Foreign Minister Kiichi Aichi, Chou said, have been "vacillating and wavering" in their attitude on the restoration of diplomatic relations between China and Japan. 
College presidents attack 
lcl 1!172 New York Times 

New York, April19--ln a singular action aimed at heading off campus disturbances, the presidents of the eight Ivy League Universities and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology issued a joint statement today deploring the recent heavy bombing of North Vietnam. 
The presidents alse said that they support demonstrations against the war "as long as they are not at the expense of the rights of others or at the expense of the continuation of constructive educational and scholarly activity of universities and colleges." 
But even as the statement was being issued one of the institutions, Columbia University here, ob­tained a court order restraining striking students from forcibly attempting to keep other students and faculty members out of classrooms, libraries and laboratories. The court order was not being enforced as of tonight, and while a mojority of Columbia students were going about their business, there were several minor scuffles on the campus. 
And in Madison, Wis., police used tear gas and night sticks to break up an antiwar demon­stration by about 2000 students and other persons. Eight persons were arrested, but no one was injured, and authorities later said that little property damage was done. 
The joint statement said that "although none of us can speak for his institution, all of us personally oppose a national policy which seems to be based on the belief that the United States must at almost any cost win the war in which it is engaged in Indichina." 
"The costs of such a policy in human life and suffering are ap­palling and unjustified," the statement said, and "America's withdrawal from this brutal war would represent a recognition that 

JIM HIBSCHMAN PONTIAC 
301 Lmcolnway E. Mishawaka 255 4771 

this country can overcome past mistakes, for which many must assume the blame, and would open possibilities for conciliation that continued hostilities never can provide." 
The statement went on to say that the university presidents "deplore" the bombing and sup­port political action to end it, but "we do not condone coercive action by individuals or groups seeking to impose their particular con­victions or concerns on others." 
FACULTY NOTICE 
The Faculty Manual Committee will continue to welcome written recommendations for the revision of the FACULTY MANUAL until April 25th, 1972. These recom­mendations should be submitted to Prof. James Robinson. These revisions may concern either the present FACULTY MANUAL or the proposed changes to the MANUAL found in NO Report No. 15. 
The Committee report will be mode to the Faculty Senate on Thursday, Apr. 27 at 7:30pm in the Aud. of the Center for Continuing Education. The Faculty at large is l'ncouraged to oltend this meeting. 

(Signed) The Executive Com­mittee of the Faculty Senate. 
---~----------------------­
I '
' 

Are all football teams alike? 
Are all colleges alike? t Are all dates alike? f 
1 
' 

THERE IS A DIFFERENCE. f 
A tremendous difference in what f
' 

you get for your money. It's the kind of difference that's worth ff knowing about! t 
t 

Get the straight facts, by calling: f 
CAMPUS REPRESENTATIVES 
I, 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
FOR SALE 
For Sale: 1 FANTASTIC Boys Girls 20" beginner bicycle. Low milage, very few dents. call 272­1SS5 after 6 pm. 
Martin Classical Guitar, model 00 1SC. Tom, SOlS, after 11 pm. 
1967 BSA VICTOR 441 Window at 1535 Turtle Creek Dr. Leave phone No. in mail ox. 
S-Track closeout. Good tapes only $2.00 114 Farley 
For Sale: 1970 Fiat 124 Spider. 
New Michelins, recent valve job. 
Good condition. $2300 or best offer. 234-3963. 
MONEY MAKING OP PORTUNITY. Earn $100monthly on small investment soccer \]arne. Call 234-1946 or 2S3-S670. 
1970 TRIUMPH GT6 +, Dark Blue, Superb condition, must see to believe. AM-Fm radio, Pirrelli Radials, stebro exhaust, new transmission, $2,400. Call John 232 4135. 
Latest 8-track tapes $4.00 and $5.00. Phone 283-1064. 
1971 Honda CB100-only ridden BOO miles. Call 1166. 

SAVE ON RECORDING TAPE! Cassette, Reel, and S-track; Ampex, BASF, Memorex, Sony, or TDK. Call Don: 3729. 
For Sale: '66 Pontiac Tempest. Good condition $4.00. 2S8-6562 otter 6 pm weekdays. 
'69 VW Bus-Tape Deck, $1195 after 6 pm -Lakeville -649-3S49. 
FOR. RENT 

Kitchens & Rooms . $45 per month. Girls only. Also free rent for summer for painting the house. 233-1329. 
For Rent: 4 room apt. childless married student prefered. Phone 2S9-1329. 
Summer only. Huge old 4 
bedroom  house.  Comfortably  
furnished.  Whole  summer  or  
school session only.  234-1972.  

3 bedroom, 7 room house . nearby campus on Notre Dame Ave. 
Suitable for four people. Summer only. Call John or Bruce. S092. 
House For Rent -Summer only -2 blocks from N D. 3 to 5 bedrooms. $175 mo. Call Julie 4549. 
Married Law Student · Furnished Apt. Two Bedrooms. Call 272­8696. 
PERSONALS 
To Mac Thanks for a job well done. Ron & Joe 
LOST AND FOUND 
---~-~---­ 
LOST:  Benrus  Watch,  silver­ 
colored.  Will be Rewarded.  Call  
6725.  

Cope Black, f.ull length. Lost at 
Beaux Arts. Reward for return. Coli Joseph Velez 233-0S42, 233­6800. 
LOST: PAIR OF WIRE RIM GLASSES IN A CAR WITH FLORIDA LICENSE PLATES LAST THURSDAY ON THE WAY TO LOUIE'S. CALL BILL S73S. 
Lost· Statistics Book Friday noon. Important! Name is in it. "Hush" 1463. 
LOST: Statistics Book, will not be 
used  as  textbook  next  year.  
Contains  invaluable  and  
irreplaceable  notes.  $5.00  

reward; no questions asked if returned. Call Bob 1167. 
LOST: Wilson-Staff 7 iron. Will rew,1rd. Call Mike 1543. 
Found: St. Mary's Girl's yellow over ni\]ht case at Indiana Cab Company apparently lost before vociltion. 
LOST: Small black and white fox tl'rrier last seen near library. RL'ward. 2S7-45S9. 
Word' 1d~ 2da 3da 4da 5da 
1-10 .65 .95 1.15 1.35 1.55 
11·15 1.00 1.50 1.85 2.10 2.40 
16-20 1.30 1.95 2.15 2.55 2.95 
21·25 1.70 2.55 3.20 3.85 4.45 
26-30 2.10 3.15 3.95 4.75 5.45 
31-35 2.45 3.65 4.45 4.75 6.15 
36-40 2.80 4.20 5.25 6.75 7.75 
41-45 3.15 4.70 5.90 7.10 8.20 
16 50 3.55 5.20 6.50 7.!10 8.95 
NOTICE 
Parts and Accessories for Im­ported cars. Foreign Car Parts Co. 215 Dixieway North (Roseland) 272-71S7. 
50 gallons free gas with 4 tire purchase; 25 free gallons gas with 2 tire purchase. Ask about our rustproofing and shock absorber specials. Ron's Standard, 1409 Portage Ave. 255-0520. 
Baseball Freaks: Knights of Columbus sponsoring EX­CURSION to Reds · Cubs game April 29. Price $S for members or \lirls, $10 for non-members. In­cludes Box Seat ducats. Food & Beverage on Chartered Bus. If interested call Bob Cunningham (1S76) or K of C. (701S). 
Mary Ann 234-3250 Experienced Typist Will negotiate on rates. 
GOOD BOOKS -SALE: BURY MY HEART AT WOUNDED KNEE $1.95 now $1.37; SEPARATE REALITY· 2.95 now 1.95; WAY OF All THE EARTH (DUNNE) -2.95 now 1.95; KNOTS (LAING) 1.45 now .99; KAMA SUTRA 1.25 now .SS; MASSAGE BOOK 3.95 now 2.90; JAN IS 4.95 now 3.47; and more at PAN­DORA'S BOOKS-SB ·NO AVES. 
Pitt Club Election. If you are interested in running, Call: John: 232-2725; Milo; 6726; Steve; 6756. 
Excellent opportunity for en­thusiastic students; especially for those remaining in South Bend for the summer. For information, call: 233-3893. 
Awardwinning Russian film: The Overcoat. Powerful drama. Carroll Hall Friday 3:30, 7, 9 Last Grasp. 
Left Field bleacher bums Cartier 
Field. 3:45 Friday. Bring your own (Pens) 
j: thanks for putting up with my irish temper. with you around, there's hope for me yet! 
love, m 
Will type anything for faculty or students. Call 232-0136. 

Fiddles, guitars, banjoes Dan Gellert SMC Coffeehouse. Sat. night 9:00 
WANTED 

WANTED: We will do typing anytime for reasonable prices. 
Especially on short notice. Call Chip S256 or Mike 6963. 
Wanted: Volunteers for Wallace to unite in effective political ac­tion. Contact: Dr. Helen Calvin, 103 S. Eddy Street, South Bend, Indiana. Phone 28S-2201. 
Wan ted: Unfurnished two bedroom house tor summer and next school year. Call Mike 283­1349. 
Central New Yorkers . We'll haul your belongings home in May. Must determine truck size from number interested so call NOW. Horse 3S74 Gigantic 1046. 
Need ride to I-SO west or Davenport, Iowa Friday 21. Phil 840S. 
I.U. RIDERS NEEDED TO I.U. NEXT TWO FRIDAYS. ROB S152. 
Ride needed to DePaul or In­dianapolis, can leave anytime Friday afternoon. Please call Kathy 5364. 
Need ride to Indy. Can leave anytime Fri. 21st. Call Tom 3454. 
REVELATIONS 

DULAC DEMON'S DIABOLICAL DICTATE NO.1-ATTENTION! 0 Ye of little faith (and other horny devils): Lucifer Prince of 
Darkness, Deniyen of Dillon, 
Slayer of Beerslayer, Purveyor of Purity, Surveyqr of Sobriety, Premiere of Piece, Voyeour of Vulgaria, and all-around-Bad-Guy contemptuously dares you to refrain from persuing Dictate N. 2! 
No.2: (remember fool: curiosity killed the cat) The afore­mentioned Entity is (a) hoofing about freely and clovenly (b) incapable of mercy (c) desirous to let it be known that cockroaches make superb spies and (d) the 111outhwash hasn't been made that cancutmybreath! IDLEMINDS AND CARD TABLES ARE SATAN'S PLAYGROUND! 
.1 
: 
t t 
1 
' 
t 
• ft
1 
f 
' t 
f:, 
Not all 
life inSUranCe compan1es are alike 
t 

Mike Baugartener 232-0649 Ralph Holewinski 289-6100  t  
Kevin Hoene 2S3-3543  
'  '-11WIIII\I'IIW~  MlJlli"IIIH•MilW"UKIE  Tom Merritt 2S3-3094  '  

'
t---------------------------..1 
• 






