


todae's whether:: We're due for more of the same. 

Volume VI, No. 65 serving the notre dame-saint mary's community Thursday, January 27, 1972 
Proposal is unofficially rejected by North Viets 
(c) 1972 New York Times 
Paris, <Jan. 26)-Vietnamese Communists made plain yesterday that President Nixon's peace plan was unacceptable. 
The North Vietnamese delegation here ac­cused the President of having uttered "brazen" threats of war in his television speech yesterday, which it called a "perfidious maneuver to deceive the American electorate in an election year." 
"brazen" threats 
The Vietcong delegation, meanwhile, called the Nixon proposals for a cease-fire and new elections in South Vietnam a scheme for maintaining American puppet governments in Indochina. 
"We ' shall continue our program of ending American involvement in the war by with­drawing our remaining forces as the South Vietnamese develop the capability." 
The statements were tantamount to a rejec­tion, although they did not spell that out. The Vietcong said it was reserving its formal reply for tomorrow's session of the Paris Peace Conference, when the Nixon plan is to be sub­mitted officially. 
The plan will be the first new proposal for a general settlement to be submitted to the con­ference by the United States since Oct. 8, 1969, when a five-point plan outlined by Nixon in a television speech the day before was introduced. 
The 1969 plan called for a cease-fire, a new Indochina peace conference, a timetable for troop withdrawals, a political solution "that reflects the will of the South Vietnamese people" and the immediate release of war prisoners. 
The Nixon plan presented yesterday night is consistent with the earlier one. It differs primarily in proposing a six-month timetable for withdrawal and prisoner release, in specifying that this period would end with an ele.ction, and in pledging the resignation of President Nguyen Van Thieu one month before the voting. 
Another new element was Nixon's offer of a simplified alternative: a withdrawal and cease­fire that would leave the political problems to be worked out by the Indochinese themselves. This matched an alternative put forward informally by the Communists last July, in connection with the Vietcong's seven-point plan, and later tacitly withdrawn. 
another new element 
The difference between that plan and the plan 
offered last night was crucial, however. The 
North Vietnamese offered arrangements to 
guarantee the security of departing American 
troops. They have consistently refused a cease­
fire applying to South Vietnamese troops while 
the Thieu government remains in office. 
Even before Nixon spoke, commentators here 
were predicting, on the basis of speculative 
dispatches from Washington, that the Com­
munists would reject any offer he made that left 
the Thieu government in power. 
Observers were totally surprised, on the other hand, by the news of Dr. Henry A. Kissinger's 13 secret meetings here. 
The one occasion when there was active 
speculation about such a meeting came last July 
12, when Kissinger, Nixon's adviser for National 
Security, paused here on his way home from his 
then still-secret visit to Peking. But he appeared 
to snub an open invitation by the North Viet­
namese, and the American delegation denied 
knowledge of any such encounter. 
In fact, Nixon revealed, Kissinger did then meet with Xuan Thuy, Hanoi's chief delegate, and presumably also with Le Due Tho, a member of the North Vietnamese Communist Politi bureau. 
David K. E. Bruce took over the Acting Chief Delegate, Philip Habib, in September, 1970, and left the following July. His successor, William Porter, was distinguished by the toughest stance yet taken by the Americans; while Kissinger was communicating with the North Vietnamese in secret, or awaiting their reply to Nixon's offers, Porter would tell them in public that they were not negotiating, and on occasion would call off weekly sessions as pointless. 


sessions pointless 
In their statement tonight, the North Viet­namese said that in both the public and the secret meetings, "The Nixon administration did not respond to the two questions fundamental for the just and logical peaceful settlement of the Vietnam problem." 
It said the United States (1) refused to with­draw its forces and arms, dismantle its bases and "cease all air and naval activities as well as other acts of war against the Vietnamese people in both zones of Vietnam"; and (2). "persisted in maintaining the group of Nguyen Van Thieu." 
The North Vietnamese statement tonight said the "threats of war" in Nixon's speech yesterday were "a brazen challenge to the Vietnamese people, the American people and peace-loving people around the world." 
"We have often pointed out that Mr. Nixon talked one way and acted another," it said. "He spoke of sham peace but made real war. In deciding to unilaterally make public the content of the private meetings that his delegates had proposed and promised to keep secret, Mr. Nixon gave further proof that his administration (finds it) very easy to break its engagements." 
The statement by the provisional Revolutionary Government of South Vietnam described the Nixon cease-fire proposal as "only a maneuver aimed at forcing the peoples of South Vietnam and Laos and Cambodia to renounce their just, patriotic struggle while the United States continues to maintain regimes in its pay in these countries." 

President Nixon emphasized a point about peace plan 


Future seen for 
Hall Life Board 
by Mike O'Hare 
Two new appointees to the Hall Life Board and three hall presidents have expressed cautious op­timism about the Board's purpose and future. 
Law professor Peter Thorton, a faculty member of the Board, views the group's purpose as making helpful suggestions to improve hall life, not handing out punishment. According to Thorton, other roles of the Board should include reviewing hall con­stitution::, and hall government to see that they are performing a viable purpose. 
Dave Fromm, Walsh hall president and a student 
representative on the Board, stated that he sees the role of the Hall Life Board as "looking out for the welfare of the halls." He cited the fact that the Board is in a unique position, being an appointive body instead of a political one, thereby allowing for more im­partial recom­mendations. Fromm said that he recognizes the 

Peter Thornton: purpose is poor past record making helpful suggestions of the Board in the . past but believes 
that this can be changed. 

Hall presidents that were interviewed concerning the Hall Life Board appeared optimistic about its future. Kevin Hansen of Cavanaugh Hall said, "I hope that it will prove to be workable; judging from the people on the Board, I think it can." 
Ed Motto, President of Sorin Hall and chairman 

of the Hall President's Council, believes that the Board can serve a "definite func­tion" and said he would welcome any suggestions they might have. Although the Board's powers are somewhat vague, he hopes that they will be in teres ted in renovations and improvements in 
Ed Motto: board's powers are the halls, as well somewhat vague. as rules. 
Both John Kwicien of Morrissey and Carmen Macarello of Fisher have adopted a "wait and see" attitude concerning the Hall Life Board until it has time to act. 
Bob Higgins, student government Hall Life Commissioner, said that his office will cooperate as much as possible with the Board. However he is unsure of what kind of assistance his office can offer because of the vague function of the Board. 
Presently, Higgins is asking hall presidents to 
consider what improvements may be made in their hall and submit the suggestions to him. These suggestions for hall improvement will be submitted 

""!~ to the Board of Trustees at their May meeting. Higgins is hopeful that the Trustees will allocate funds to implement the improvements 
Bob Higgins: unsure what his mentioned in the office can offer. report. 




THE OBSERVER 

Ginsburg, Kosinski to speak at Soph Literary Festival 
by Stan Podlasek 
Beat poet Allen Ginsburg and award -winning author Jerzy Kosinski will highlight next April's Sophomore Literary Festival, according to Chairman Raymond M. Funk Jr. The festival is scheduled for the week of between April 16-21. 
Kosinski and Ginsberg are two of six novelists and three poets who will appear during the six­day festival. Other guests include Robert Coover, theologian and author of Universal Baseball Association, writer and critic William Gass, Big Man author Jay Neugeboren, novelist and es~ayist John Williams, and poets Diane Wakoski and Robert Dunkan. Miss Wakoski is the first woman ever to speak at the festival. 
Author Charles Newman, who edits Northwestern's Triquar­terly will keynote the address. Newmann has written New Axis and The Promisekeeper. 
According to Funk, the nine 

Benefit Friday will aid migrant farm workers 
by Michael Baum 
Two organizations last night invited the students of the Notre Dame-St. Mary's community to attend a Fiesta Benefit for migrant laborers Friday evening. Rev. Joel Scholefield of the First Unitarian Church and Farm Labor Aid Committee <FLAC). Coordinator Lups Rochaj jointly extended the in­vitation. 
Rev. Scholefield announced that the Fiesta. organized by the church's Social Action Com­mittee, will be held to raise money for the United Farm Workers Organizational Com­mittee, <UFWOC) of the AFL­CIO, to help farm labor in the field, and to help the organization "become more effective." 
The benefit will be held Friday, the 28th, beginning at 6 pm at the First Untiarian Church, on the corner of North Shore and Michigan. The program will consist of a Mexican -American dinner, entertained with traditional Mexican dances and music, and a dance, with music provided by the Greased Lightening. The donation asked will be $2.50 for the entire evening, or $1.00 for the dance alone. 
Rev. Scholefield said that "The church as a congregation feels these kinds of activities are a help to the community at large, both Anglo and Chicano. We are very eager to reach students who have a heightened sense of awareness about these problems. 
We would hope that some Notre Dame students would come by and see what's going on." 
According to Rocha, who is coordinating boycott activities for UFWOC, announced the present plans of the organization, "Right now we are preparing to get the lettuce boycott going again. In good faith to get the growers to negotiate the Union held off the boycott for 8 months. The growers went behind their backs to initiate legislation against the farm workers, so right now we're trying to get the boycott going again... We have had success with the grape in­dustry, we hope with our friends to have success with the lettuce guests will visit classrooms as well as speak to general audiences. Festival directors said that they had not established any speaking times for the nine. The directors are attempting to fit an as-yet-unnamed tenth speaker into the schedule, Funk 


growers." 
Rocha said that he would like to hear from any group or organization interested in holding similar benefits or fund raising activities. Interested groups can call Mr. Rocha at his home, phone number 259-0291. Donations or inquiries should be addressed to 222 East Marion, Mishawaka. 
The benefit organizers ex­pressed the hope for a "good student response" to the cause. Remarked Rev. Scholefield, "We hope that the Fiesta will have the social significance of sym­bolically dramatizing the plight of the migrant, but we want people to have a good time, while at the same time making a contribution to a worthwhile cause." 
All donations should be made 
payable to the United Farm 
Workers Organizing Committee. 
ON A WAVE' 
-ENTERTAINMENT TODAY 
"SPECTACULAR" 
-SAN CLEMENTE SUN POST 

"GORGEOUS" 
-DAILY VARIETY 





Pacific VibfatioN 
AFILMavJOHN SEVERSON· COLORa C-0 • .FEATURE 
said. 
Cultural Arts Committee Chairman Bob Brinkman praised the selection, contending that "It (the literary festival) should provide a quality equal and 
possibly better than those in the past." According to Brinkman, "Big names do not necessarily reflect the quality of the writers." 
There will be no admission charge for the six-day festival. 

Citroen 
Truly the ultimate in driving. If you haven't driven dne yourself, iusf ask somebody who has. You'II see there's more to Citroen than iust a pretty face. 
Used Specials of the Week 
'68 FIAT ABARTH 1300cc ·· The Real Thing 
'68 VOLVO 1425 2 dr. Automatic, Real Nice 
'68 PONTIAC G.P. White, 2 Door Hard Top 
'69 CITROEN Like New . An Excellent Buy 
••eru 8

auto/spott 
Citra~~ 
52148 U.S. 31 N. 
South Bend 
PhoH 272-215f LAST NIGHT 
"Johnny Got His Gun" 
Tomorrow! 
Thursday, January 27, 1972 


Your average reading speed probably ranges between 150 and 300 words per minute. Graduates of the Reading Dynamics course read and study at least 3 to 6 times faster than that. And the average graduate of our course actually (mproves comprehension over 10 per cent. 
Thousands of college students are Reading Dynamics graduates, Including over 1,000 at Notre Dame, Indiana University, and Purdue. This Is the same basic course that first received national recognition when President John F. Kennddy invited Evelyn Wood to the White House to teach her system to top level staff personnel. Recently, President Nixon's staff took the Reading Dynamics course. 
The best way to find o.ut about the remarkable Reading Dynamics course Is to come to a free MlN I-LESSON. At this you'll learn what It's like to be able to read and study 3 to 6 times faster. You will see a short, enjoyable movie and have all your questions answered. 

ATTEND 

A Free Speed Reading Lesson 
Increase your reading speed 
50 to 100% on the spot. 
TODAY & TOMORROW 6 and 8 P·M· 
CENTER FOR CONTINUING 
EDUCATION 

NOTRE DAME AVENUE 
EVELYN WOOD READING DYNAMICS 


'World 
briefs 

(c) 1972 New Yotk Times 
Washington---In the second stage of the administration's sudden diplomatic and political offensive on the war, Henry A. Kissinger asked for public understanding and support of the peace proposal. He also reviewed his own private efforts to break the deadlock on negotiations. 
Washington---President Nixon's Vietnamese peace proposal was termed a "long step forward" towards a negotiated settlement of the war by Senate Majority Leader Mike Mansfield. Some critics of the administration's Vietnamese policies, however, complained that the proposal was unrealistic and stood no chance of being accepted by North Vietnam. 
Washington---An amendment that would have limited the authority of .th~ equal employment opportunity commission to only institute su1ts m Federal Court on behalf of persons subject to discrimination was defea~e~ in the Senate by a vote of 48 to 46. The defeat would give the commiSSion the power to order companies to stop discrimination in employment practices. 
nd-smc 
10: 15---lecture, allen f. davis, conspiracy and the american heritage, cce 
3: 00·-lecture, prof yeandel, future image of the army officer, library auditorium 
7:00---meeting, freshman council, second floor Iafortune 
7:30 & 9:30---film, the murder of fred hampton, engineering auditorium, admission free 
8: 00---lecture, prof ross terrill, a first hand look at china, library auditorium 
8:00---lecture, leonard boudin, legal defense against conspiracy, cce 
on campus today 

by Bob Long and Ann McCarry 
The St. Mary's Student Assembly last night voted to create a three-member com­mittee to administer an election designed to find a successor to recently-resigned student body Vice-President Missy Underman. The Assembly also voted to name Student Affairs Commissioner Jean Seymour chairman of the committee. 
The decision came im­mediately after the Assembly chose not to appoint an interim vice-president to fill out the duration of Miss Underman's term. 
The move to create the com­mittee and the name Miss 
Thursday, January 27, 1972 THE OBSERVER Page 3 
Conspiracy conference opens today 
by Susan Stone 

Notre Dame's first "Conference on Conspiracy and Dissent" will open today in the Center for Continuing Education. The conference, sponsored by the Program on Non-Violence, is intended to bring together men who share similar convictions concerning the present con­spiracy Jaws, the war, and other areas of concern to the American public. 
Among Thursday's par­ticipants in the Conference are: 
Allen F. Davis 00:15a.m.) will speaking on "Conspiracy and the American Heritage". Presently a history professor at Temple University, he is on leave 1971-2 as an American Council of Learned Societies Senior Fellow. He is the author of Spearheads for Reform: The Social Set­tll.'ments and the Progressive Moveml.'nt, 1890-1914, co-author of Eighty Years at Hull House, and Conflict and Consensus In American History. He is currently studying the American soldier as a hero in American life. 
Hichard J. Neuhaus will discuss "Theological Reflections 
on Conspiracy" at 3:00p.m. Mr. 
Neuhaus is the Pastor of the Lutheran Church of St. John the Evangelist, a predominantly black and Spanish parish in Brooklyn, editor of Una Sancta, a 
member of the Board of Direr-
tors of SANE <for a Sane nuclear policy> and has written several books dealing with radicalism and religion. He has led com­
munity and city-wide groups for city-planning and anti-poverty programs. In 1968hemet with the Vietnamese delegation to the Paris Peace talks. His work consequently led to the establish­ment of U.S. support groups for
draft resisters in France, Sweden and Canada. 
Leonard J. Boudin will be Thursday evening's only speaker. His topic of discussion 
will concern "Legal Defense Against Conspiracy", set to begin at 8:00p.m. One of the country's 
most prominent civil lawyers, he ,___pe_c_•_a__tu_e_n_t_R_a_te_s_E_v_e_ry:._D_a:..y.:..)_________.2 
Seymour head was made by Assembly Member Darlene Gallina, who cited the "time element" involved as her reason for the move. The Assembly also voted to formally advertise for members of the newly-created board on January 27th. 
Under rules standing until the Assembly met last night, any vacancy in an electoral office must be filled by a school-wide election. Normally, the St. Mary's student-body Vice­President administers those elections. 
Former SBVP Underman was unavailable for comment on the move. 
Miss Underman did say, however. that her "first reac­
has defended Julian Bond, 
Benjamin Spock, Daniel Ellsberg 
and The Harrisburg Eight. He 
taught a course on advanced constitutional litigation at Harvard University Law School last year. 
Thursday's festivities will start at 10:15 a.m. with: Arthur I. Waskow will analyse "American Capitalism and American Catholicism: On a Collision Course?" As a member of the staff of The Liberal Project, he was a legislative assistant to a 
U.S. Congressman from 1959 to 1961. He spoke at the nation's first teach-in at Ann Arbor. He was also elected a delegate from the District of Columbia to the Democratic National Convention in 1968. Some of his books include 


SMC election 

A special election will be held to fill the vacancy in the office of SMC student body vice-president. Any student interested in the office (acting VP for the remainder of the term) must notify Jean Seymour before Sunday, Jan. 30. Phone 4675 P.O. Box 859. 
~~::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::-!...J 
;­

HAIR STYLING, 
LTD. SERVING THE N.D. COMMUNITY FOR OVER 4 YEARS 
M t f 
os 0 us yrung students are wearing our lo~. ~aybe_ dad and mon are With thiS but if your hair's shaped by Continental you will please both yrur parents and yet have you; hair right-m. 
We ares peci.alists in long hair. Also we will treat 
your h · t · th 1 
. au, nm e oose ends, and apply a protein

solution that will condition your hair. This is a studentspecialatanunbelievablelowprice.... many of your friends have already visited us. 
Call 259-7679 for APPOINTMENT 1321 E. McKinley Ave., Mish. (tExt door to Norma in Pharmacy)(S · 1 S d 
tion" to the current regulation which makes a new election mandatory, "was that it (naming a new vice-president) would be a waste of time, since the election for next year's officers would be sometime in March." 
SBP Kathy Barlow dissented fro~ .her former vice-president, clan~mg during the Assembly meetmg that "I think it's best to follow the book. I don't want to have any repercussion." 
Miss Underman did suggest t~at it "might be necessary" to fill the vacancies left on various committees by her resignation. She had been Chairman of the Student Affairs Committee, and a member of the Student Affairs Council and SMC Student 
Limits of Defense, The Worried 
Man's Guide to Peace, From 
Race Riot to Sit-in, 1919 and 1960's 
andThe Creative Disorder of Our 
Day. 
David Del!!_nger, senior 
member of the Chicago Eight will round out the Conference at 3:30 p.m. in Washington Hall Auditorium. Along with Mr. Dellinger will be a panel of in­dicted or convicted conspirators whose comments have been titled "The Response of Defendents to Conspiracy Charges." Since 1940 he has worked against the United States' conscription laws and was a founder of the Committee for 
Non-Violent Revolution. Since 1956 he edited Liberation and in 1970 his book Revolutionary Non­Violence was published. 

Assembly before she resigned. 
She said that she "would like to stay on as a member of the Student Life Council" but under council rules her resignation as SBVP terminates her position on that council. 
Beyond that, Miss Underman said she "plan(s) to get caught up on my work, do mv radio show 

Sports Parachuting -Sky Diving 
Orientation -Film -Lecture Jan 29, 1972 -LaFortune Rm 1 C Session 1 -11 :00 AM Session 2 -3:00 PM 
Sponsored By The ND-SMC Parachute Club, 
U.S. Parachute Association And Marshall Co. Parachute Center. Admission Free -Everyone Welcomed 
Spring Semester STU DENT SPECIAL 

15" Color TV 2.1 Cubic Ft. Refrigerator 
Both for only $29.95 -month less than $1.00 a day 

19"Biack & White TV 
2.1 Cubic Ft. Refrig Both for only $19.95 -month less than$.66 a day 
Rented Separately 
15" Color TV $24.50 -month 
19" Black & White TV $14.50 -month 
2.1 Cubic Ft. Refrig $7.50 -month 
Only Monthly Rentals I 0% Discount For Full Semester Payment 
2022 South Bend Ave. 272-5483 


(she has an afternoon show with the campus radio station WSND), and generally enjoy 
myslef." 
:rhe Assembly voted to pay M1ss Underman a salary proportionate with the extent of her term she served, and to pay the rest of her Vice-President's 
salary to her successor. 

SBVP election committee named at SMC 

r
i 
I Page 4 THE OBSERVER Thursday, January 27, 1972 







THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
l<:ditor-in-Chler. Glen S. Corso Assistant F.dltor 
,\ssist.ant ..:ditor 

T.C. Treanor All successful newspapers are 
John Abowd

ceaselessly querulous and bellicose. They never defend
Business Manager 
anyone or anything if they can help i\dVt'rtising Manager 
Jim Jendryk it; if the job is forced upon them, Bill Bauerle they tackle it by denouncing someone or something else. 
H.L. Mencken 

Business: 283-7471 News: 283-1715 
Where's the money coming from? 
Notre Dame's football team didn't go to the Cotton Bowl this year. Notre Dame's team didn't go to any bowl game in fact. Such is life. Some years the team just doesn't have it and those years it stays home on New Years day. 
But for Notre Dame's minority students the fact that the football team wasn't down in Texas, or Louisiana or Florida this New Year's day meant something far more sinister and disturbing than a case of lots of spirit but little talent. For Notre Dame's minority students it meant that ths bowl funds, a big source of funds for scholarships, is no more. Those funds allowed more and more minority students to attend this university. Those funds allowed Notre Dame to offer palatable scholarship packages to top flight minority students and others. Those funds have disappeared. 
According to our eminent Provost the university will shortly make an announcement about the minority scholarship situation. One might hope that the university will say that several million dollars has been set aside specifically for that purpose. One might hope that the university would announce that Notre Dame would at last have the money to compete for minority students with other major universities. One might alos hope that the second coming of Christ might be scheduled for next Thursday. 
The university's economic situation is depressing. After a modest surplus last year a $700,000 deficit is expected this year. The intractable laws of inflation have decreed that costs for this institution will spiral upwards faster thna revenues. These same laws may carry with them on their spiral hopes for adequate minority funding. 
The Provost has promised an announcement, though. That an­nouncement may carry with it an implicit promise of more funds, a lot more funds. We can only hope that it will and hope too that money has been found to finance the education of those who can't afford it. 
Who needs a one 
month Veep? 
With Student Body elections a little over a month away it is a waste of time and effort for St. Mary's Student Government to embark on the process of securing a new Vice-President. 
If the post carried with it duties of mind bending proportions, or duties that involved life-or-death decisions or other awe-inducing obligations then perhaps an election would make sense. 
The St. Mary's Student Government and certainly the St. Mary's student body has far more important things to spend their time on. To waste some of that time to elect someone to a post that is largely ceremonial and then have them serve a month is foolish. We suggest that the election committee headed by Jena Seymour return a negative verdict on their quest for a method to elect a Vice-President for the student government. They would do everyone a favor. 
nite editor: Dan Barrett, Beth Hall headlines: John Kloos layout: Kathy Schwille, Jerry  'da staff  Kampman, Jack Kelly. Chauffer: Kenny Compugraphic magicians: John Brady, Mark Lammert, rick  
Lutkus, Jim McDermott, Kenny  smith.  



DON'T BE 
LEFT OUT 
IN 
THE 



CO-ED 

Peripheral Division 
The Ape 
T.C. Treanor 

The late hullabaloo about the Missing Link, coming as it has on the heels of the Jesus Movement, has caused some yuks to be spread out among students o~ the absurd. Of the movement I have no opinion, for how can one pass Judgement on a hope, or write aesthetic criticisms on the power of the Truth? But I have followed the search for the Missing Link with some considerable interest, and have formulated some fine scientific theories about its whereabouts. 
I cannot hold with those who think that the bones of the ghost are mouldering in Africa. After all, a link is a link, even in Africa, and in Africa the gulf is too great. The philosophers who argue that reality is linked with disorder and chaos (and hence found in that fat continent) are all wet, I have found. In truth, reality is an ordered thing ­regimented even, and marshalled and sung to sleep by the sweet slow stasis of dispair. 
Likewise, I cannot hold with those religionists who think that Adam's tomb lies between the Tigris and Euphrates. I have it on best authority that after he died Adam was shot from a Cannon and that he presently orbits the earth. 
All this is speculation, though, and pretty poor speculation at that. I know the truth-the truth about the Missing Link. All this time he's been in my room -lying sleeping beneath my sink. 
Once, in a fever dream, with the sky crying -red and that bright particular star glowing gleaming sameness from the hole in the egg, three visitors from the planet Neptune walked the laughing sand. They had fenced the gold; they had fenced the frankenscense; they had fenced the myrh. 
Once. in a fever dream, there had been laughter in the Sun. The brave new atoms had been stripped on the broken shroe; but that had been over years ago. They had fenced the stuff, and now there was only Laughter in the Dark. 
In a fever dream, an angel of ths Lord had appeared to the visitors, and had told them it was deadly to see the king. And they had asked him why, and he had told them: there is One there, who must die in thirty years; the king would change history and make him die now. 
So they fell to argumentation; 'mongst the cactus and the sand, and concluded that thirty years and one year were one and the same. So in a year they saw a King, and told them what they had experienced. 
In frantic haste, the angel went to the One who had to -be warned; but He and his family had gone to the movies; and since the angel was born to warn, he warned the nearest family. They escaped to Egypt, and lived there, until the bright particular star had burned itself dead. 
A descendent of that family had become a minor prophet of a minor ~eligion in the fourt? century, and another descendent made a killing m the stock market m the early part ofthe twentieth century. 
Allus wanted to write this sorta column. Allus wanted to be able to write something that'd make people say, "What the hell is this, Treanor?" Then I could sav: 
I was transcribing, y'see, what I heard from a cracked-voice liar screaming .in the desert. He was screaming, cracked-voice and low to the cactus m the san~. The dirt was in his mouth, and it had mad~ a sort of mud soup, until he spit and drooled in steady sad resignation. And nobody heard him, 'cept the cactus and the sand. 
And as Kilgore Trout once said: so it goes, so it always goes, so it must go, Amen. 

Thursday, January 27, 1972 THE OBSERVER. !'age 5 

Notre Dame: a view from the outside 
Notes from the Underground 
The following article is a selection from a book entitled The Underground Guide to the College of Your Choice. This particular selection was written by Susan Bergman. Parts of it are slightly outdates; parts are untrue (Jesus Christ on the dome?). but the majority of what is .~aid still holds. 
llniversity of Notre Dame Notre Dame, Indiana 
One of the last bastions of male 
supremacy around. 
SEHGEANT PEPPER SECTION: 
7,500 students, all male. 1,300 of these are grads. Entering freshmen need a tl'acher's evaluation, good grades and SATs in the 1,100 area. Transfers need a B, Rl blacks, 7 Chicanos. 92 percent out-of­state. 
At'AilEMJ('S: 
Academically, this is a bad place for freaks. There is practically no opportunity for self-expression. Work is upheld as the standard. 
Notre Dame is supposedly ranked ninth in the country for undergraduate education. Best departments are Theology, English and the General Program (200 kids are enrolled in it and it is a sequence of different type classes). 12 hours of Theology are required for all Catholic students. 
I 
Favorite professors are Father Dunne in the Theology department (he teaches "God in Time and Memory") and Rudy Gerber who teaches "Philosophy of Revolution." 
There's a new "Non-Violence Program" 
that is "student-initiated." The Free U teaches "Pottery," "Guitar," "The llistory of Locomotives," "Baseball Trivia" and "How to Live Like a Gen­tleman on $7,000 a Year." 
Some Pass·Fail, independent study and study abroad. 
The student-professor relationship is very good; much of the faculty is very student oriented. 
The Black Studies program offers a double major possibility (one in Black Studies, one in something else). 
HHEAD: 
Tuition at this private school is $1,000 a semester. The school is in somewhat of a bind as to financial aids. Most of the students have to work in the summer to earn enough for school. There are 1,200 jobs on campus. 
Dorms cost $1,050 for room, board and 
laundry for the year. About half the students live in dorms. The others pay about $60 each for an apartment. Cars are the most popular form of transportaation among the upperclassmen. Freshmen and sophomores aren't allowed cars and walk. 
BHOTIIEHS: 
This school is all men and they aren't very happy about it. Students keep pushing for Notre Dame to go coed. There are a few chicks in classes on an exchange program from nearby St. Mary's but that's it. 
Cats wear contemporary clothing---fads. Some are into anachronistic Ivy League threads. They have medium-length well­trimmed hair. There are about 400 freaky looking people on campus. 
The few chicks that are there play the field and try to go out with as many cats as possible. When they do get involved, it's in terms of marriage. The cats are preoc­cupied with the chicks' appearance. 
Notre Dame is a haven for male supremacists and male chauvinists. The campus is sexually repressed and there are a lot of gay people. Only the freaks are into interpersonal relationships and balling. 
Entertainment consists of flicks, athletic events and drinking. People hang at "Frankie's" (straights) and "Corby's" (a jock bar). There is some usage of grass here though they have a very strong ingr~ined tradition of drinking Budweiser. In 1970 there were only about 15 freaks into grass and then all of a sudden people got interested in ecology and turned on to grass. It is $5 a lid or free (it grows wild in South Bend since hemp was planted in the area during World War II). 
Over the past five years the school has changed from a rah-rah super­conservative school to a more open place. The old Catholic conservative tradition is being replaced by a new Catholic liberal contemplative thing. This is being done mainly through the Non-Violence Program 
<classes on nonviolence based on the New Testament> which has started a sanctuary for draft resisters on campus. Kids are willing to work through the system to get the changes they want. There is an idea stressed on campus that politics should not destroy humanism (a person should not let his political hate dehumanize himself!. 
All political people are deeply mto nonviolence. Political clubs are elitist with a strong leader. There is the Y AF, the Committee for Political Action <liberal), the Committee for a New Congress (worked for peace candidates in the November election) and the Afro­American Society (separatists for the most part>. 
Notre Dame has always had a good football team and pushs athletics. These jocks are typically bean-head right­wingers. Sports reigned supreme until1967 when demonstrations against ROTC started. In 1969, students demonstrated against a CIA recruiter. He was scared and split. There was some support for the Moratorium. 
On November 17, 1969, Father Hesburgh made his famous "15-minute policy" speech that earned him praise from Tricky Dick. There was a demonstration against the CIA and Father Hesburgh made a speech giving the students 15 minutes to either split or get expelled. For this he was congratulated by Nixon who apparently didn't read the second half of the statement in which Hesburgh said he was only doing this because he felt that otherwise troops might be called in and he didn't want that. 
Students supported the strike in 1970. There was canvassing, leafletting and demands of ROTC off campus. They got 25,000 people in South Bend to sign an anti­war petition. 
SURVIVAL: 
The infirmary is poor---they dispense downers. There's no Free Clinic or sur­vival services. Draft counseling through the Non-Violence program. 
Intercollegiate sports are still very big here. Jocks are gods and football is the Pnd-all. 
The Observer is a fairly boring campus paper. 
Jo:NVIHONMENT: 
Mental.·Some talk about·sports.others about politics. 
Physical: The climate is terrible with really harsh winters. Spring is nice. Drewry's Brewery is a big polluter. The St. .Joseph River is almost totally polluted--­they dump sewage directly into the river. 
For the size of its student body, Notre Dame has a massive campus. The ad­ministration building is Gothic and has a beautiful gold dome with Jesus Christ on top. When the sun shines it's outa sight. 
The campus has a lot of natural beauty, trees, grass, and lakes. Escapes include the Dunes (a state park) and Leeper Park in town. 


Diary of a Pinko 
This charming selection is from a Fullerton, California newspaper called The Educator. It was published in October of 1971. It is being reprinted here for the good of all campus "hellhounds." 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. (ENS) Catholics were shocked recently when the University of Notre Dame awarded its coveted Senior Fellow Award to revolutionary lawyer William M. Kunsler. 
Kunsler, a Jew, was the attorney for the infamous Chicago Seven. Until 1969 the award was known as the Patriot of the Year Award and it was given to such people as J. Edgar Hoover, John Kennedy, Richard Nixon, Bob Hope, and Gen. William Westmoreland. 
Other nominees for the 1971 award were 
I.F. Stone, radical leftist journalist, Charles Hurst, president of Malcolm X College in Chicago and radical liberal Saul Bt>llow. 
Shortly after the Chicago Seven trial, which was described by the presiding judge, William Hoffman, as the "most disorderly trial" in American history, Kunstler said the following about the judicial system in the United States. 
"There is a disquieting probability that the legal subsystem is itself nothing more 

• . • ~j,. 
.''l ' 
~ 
.. 
·~·(."' ~ .... .~~:·F· .: 
..h_,:.~,~...~ 
'\:: ,.If.
K~' 
..:.. >II< .~ > ...!t 
..,.. , "" . # .. 
~ --;,._~~,..,_ ..... ~: 1f-'·o~ 
. . '_,,.
~;F.-)fl*~!; ~ 
... ..........-. 
•.r 
Onl' of many campus monuments in honor of Satan. 
than the new tyrants most reliable weapon to ward off any seemingly potent threat to the continuation of yesterday into tomorrow. If the injunction and the con­viction can achieve the same results as the Pope and the sword, judges are after all far more comfortable companions than executioners. And in the last analysis, due process of law is exactly what the high and the mighty say it is." 
Over 1,000 students, teachers and guests gathered at the campus to honor Kunstler when he received the award as man of the year. 
Educator readers are urged to write to President Theodore Hesburgh, Notre Dame University, South Bend, Ind., and ask for an explanation of this outrageous, anti-Christian stance. 
Hesburgh is a board member of the Rockefeller Foundation, a committee member of the Ford Foundation and is on
...~_.,.. _~· 

the board of the John LaFarge Institute. In the last names he has worked with radicals Rev. John C Bennett, Rev. Eugene Carson Blake, Rev. Robert Drinan, Rev. Joseph Fichter, Rabbi Louis Finkelstein, Roy Wilkins and A. Phillip Randolph. 
The Communist front affiliations of LaFarge Institute board members fill pages of Congressional reports and this is the organization which sponsored the American tour of the French Communist Roger Garaudy. 
It was at Notre Dame University that radical Women's Liberation leader Ti­Grace Atkinson was permitted to make blasphemous statements about the Blessed Virgin and Christianity, with Hesburgh sitting in the audience. She called the Virgin Mary a prostitute, using the vernacular expression. 
William Buckley's sister, the wife of Triumph Magazine publisher L. Brent Bozell, gained eternal fame by walking up to Miss Atkinson and slapping her across the mouth. 
Bishop William Adrian of Nashville said of Miss Atkinson'sscandalous Notre Dame appearance, "We cannot understand how a professed Catholic institution could permit such a vile sacrilegious defamatory tirade as Ti-Grace Atkinson delivered at Notre Dame--which is 
dedicated to the Immaculate Mary, Mother of God." 
The same woman said the same foul things at the Catholic University in Washington, D.C. 
There are persistent reports of Black Masses being conducted at Notre Dame. William Smulle, editor of the Newsleader, Netcong, New Jersey reports that Father Hesburgh is planning on instituting free sex in the dormitories. 
Smullen, a Notre Dame graduate, class of 1935, writes, "The blasphemous references to God and the insult directed at the Blessed Virgin, the Mass honoring Red Chinese leader Mao Tse Tung and the mockery of the Last Supper appearing on the cover of the Scholastic are all tell­tales. A preternatural power stalks the campus and it should come as no surprise to learn that young hellhounds are war­
Satan in an abominable rite." 

"I bt'lieve in Mao, the Father Almighty" 
Thursday, January 27, 197'2

Page 6 THE OBSERVER 
Editor: 
This letter is written by one 

who has been the editorial 
director of a campus newspaper, 
an instructor in journalism and 
advisor to a college newspaper, 
and a professional reporter. 
With these credentials out of 

the way, allow me to say that the 
Observer's editorials on the 
Saint Mary's-Notre Dame 
unification problem have been 
crude and unprofessional. They 
have shown no sensitivity in 
discussing either individuals or 
groups involved, and one is 
almost being euphemistic in 
saying their grasp of the issues 
approaches ludicrousness. 
The Observer has every right to criticize positions on unification taken by either or both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. One asks only that in doing so the editorial writer display intelligence and civility. The recent editorials, culminating in the scurrilous attack on Sister Mrna, have displayed neither. 
Richard W. Conklin 
Editor: 
As your motto for the Observer you have chosen a guote by H.L. 

Nixon suit 
Mencken which we quote-"All 
successful newspapers are 
ceaselessly querulous and 
bellicose. They never defend 
anyone or anything if they can 
help it; if the job is forced upon 
them, they tackle it by denoun­
cing someone or something else." 
In reference to your editorial of 
Friday, January 21, Goodbye, 
Sister Alma it seems you truly 
practice what you preach. 
While tolerating questionable opinions in past editorials Friday's was unprofessionai journalism. Your quote from Mencken that "to denounce someone or something" produces a successful newspaper is naive. Your judgments are as ill­founded as your lack of com­prehension of Sister Alma and the situation at SMC-ND. 
We believe that respect for human dignity should be an essential part of any newspaper's creed. However, during the course of the editorial you have chosen to repeatedly belittle and degrade Sister Alma. True, a large part of the community may not agree with several courses of action taken by the Boards of Trustees and other leaders of the ND-SMC community, but to single out Sister Alma, to write of her in the past tense and to equate her resignation with Father McGrath's death is a clear example of dehumanization. 
We believe we deserve a great deal more than slanderous and calumnous reporting from the Observer. 
Ann Shoemaker Virginia Russell Father Ned Reidy, Chaplain, SMC 
Editor: 

One of the hallmarks of the democratic tradition of responsible criticism has been the ability to distinguish between attacking the person and the policies for which he or she is answerable. Your editorial, "Goodbye, Sister Alma," <Friday, January 21) flagrantly ignores that distinction and viciously attacks the personality and character of the acting president of St. Mary's College. The rank arrogance, in­sensitivity, and downright boorishness of such writing demeans your paper and is an affront to all of us who read it. At the top of the page you quote one of H.L. Mencken's witticisms 1 about successful newspapers which are "ceaselessly querulous and bellicose. They never defend 
11111111111111111111111111111111111 Letters111111111111111111111111111111111 
Nader traces dairy 1noney 
This is the second part of a two part story on Mr. Nader's legal suit against President Nixon. 
Newsmen here disclosed l<ist 
September, by checking the 
contributions reports of dairy 
political groups which are 
required to be filed with the clerk 
of the House of Representatives, 
that by then more than $200,000 in 
milk money had flowed into 
hastily formed dummy com­
mittees in Washington, many 
headquartered at unlikely ad­
dresses -such as a night club. 
Some of the listed officers of 
the paper committees have since 
denied any connection with or 
knowledge of the committees or 
their purpose. One of them turned 
out to be a registered democrat. 
And in protest letters to the house clerk's office, two others­
W. Carter Bowles Jr., whose home was listed as the address of "Americans Organized for Political Stability," and Frederic 
C. Towers, whose home was listed as the address of the "Organization of Community Volunteers" --have made categorical denials of any knowledge of those groups. Both men are republicans. 
Dummy committees of both parties have existed here for years because, although con­tributions such as those to the republicans from the National Dairy Political Trusts must be disclosed periodically to the clerk of the house, the expenditures of the district of Columbia-based beneficiaries can be kept secret. 
The milk contributions to members or committees of both parties were alleged to have come from the recently organized "political education" arms of the country's three largest dairy marketing cooperatives. They were iden­tified as: 
The Trust for Agricultural Political Education, or TAPE an arm of Associated Milk Producers, Inc., of San Antonio, Tex. TAPE was founded in 1969, the suit said, and since then has reported under weak federal disclosure laws collections of $2,880,500 from its farmer­members and disbursements of only $721,553 -leaving it an 
unexpended balance of about $2.1-million. An "education" fund called the trust for Special Political 
Agricultural Community Education, or SPACE, of Dairymen, Inc., a milk co-op based in Louisville, Ky.. Ac­cording to the suit, SPACE was organized in 1969 and has reported receipts since then of $316,980, with disbursements of $131,595 --leaving it a balance of $185,385. 
The Agricultural and Dairy Educational Political Trust, or ADEPT, or Mid-America Dairies, Inc., with headquarters in Springfield, Mo. organized in 1970, ADEPT has reported collections of $183,171 arid disbursements of $107,343 -with an unexpended balance of $75,828. 
As of the end of 1971, the three dairy political committees, by Nader's accounting from data in their reports, appeared to have had more than $2.4 million -not countin_g additional receipts flowing in this year, apparently at a higher rate than before. 
The main thrust of criticism in the suit fell upon the Nixon ad­ministration and, indirectly, on the president himself. This chronology was the core of Nader's case: 

1. 
On March 22, 1971, the dairy "political education" trust, TAPE, deposited a total of $10,000 in four republican campaign accounts. 


2. 
On March 23, Nixon and former Sec. Hardin met at the White House with a dozen dairy industry leaders -including top executives of the three milk co­ops named in the suit -and were urged to reconsider the increase in the price support level for milk that Hardin had rejected on March 12. 

3. 
On March 24-24 hours. after the White House meeting, the Nader suit said -another dairy "political education" trust, 


SPACE put an additional $25,000 
(continued on page 8) 


anyone or anything if they can help it. . . " Too bad you lack Mencken's redeeming quality of humor and interpret the motto with an adolescent literalness which betrays an appalling ignorance of the tradition of journalism he represents. 
Many of us at St. Mary's have worked long and hard to protest and bring about needed changes. A lot of us took strong action to oppose the unmerger decision, and regretted the way things · were handled all around. But among the people directly in­volved--those who have in­definitely ~ore at stake than you your detached "Observer" does!­
I have never encountered anything remotely resembling the rancor, lack of civility, or sneering nastiness you have displayed. At the height of the December flare-up, on several occasions I was deeply impressed by the concern of many St. Mary's students to keep the protests on a level other than the personaL Mter a week of intense and often bitter emotions, the community gathered to pray for 
reconciliation; the students in­vited Sister Alma, other ad­ministrators, and even members of the Board of Trustees. Disagreement was deep and nobody pretended problems were solved; but that event gave evidence that there are many here who can get angry, protest, see~ change--w!th~ut betraying basic human d1gmty. Give me that kind of enlightened protest instead of the adolescent vin­dictiveness your editorial betrays. 
I am not writing as one Holy Cross Sister to defend another and certainly not to justify th~ cours~ of events we have recently expenenced. I am writing because you offend the elements of a common human decency and a minimal ethical sensitivity. The kind of language in that editorial meets my definition of obscene as no use of four letter words could. You disregard facts, are in­credibly naive about the struc­tural defects of the situation, and apparently delight in using your "power" to kick a man when he's down. Well bully for you; now that's really the fruit of the educational process, n'est-ce pas? Sister Elena Malits, CSC Religious Studies Dept. 

Cultural Arts Commission's Cinema '72 presents 



DESTROY, SHE SAID 
Fri. & Sat. Jan. 28 & 29 7:00 &9:00pm 
Engineering Auditorium 
Cinema '72 Admission $1.00 
patrons free 





SENIOR 
Weekend Sports Specials 
Fri: Canadian Mist Blended Whiskey 25c -shot 7:00 -9:00 
Bar Open 4:00 till??? 
Sat : Bar Open 
12:00 (noon) Till Game Time 
& Immediately After Game 
Schlitz Malt On Tap 
10 c-glass 6:00-8:00 
(One FREE Drink With Each Hockey Ticket Stub) 
BAR 
Thursday, January 27, 1972 THE OBSERVER Page 7 
Tom O'Mara has varied interests 
by Lefty Ruschmann '73 

Talk with Tom O'Mara and chances are that the conversation will soon drift away from basketball. A sign on his desk warns all comers, "I AM A FREE THINKER. DANGER," which is a reminder of the past summer, which he spent with his close friends in a commune-style beach house on the Pacific. "My per­sonal beliefs and athletic life," he cautioned, "have little in com­mon," though he attacks both with a loose, easy-going attitude. 
O'Mara, a sophomore General Program major with strong interests in the social sciences, defies the common stereotype of the athlete. He spends hours with his stack of books, which include works on history, philosophy, and psychology. 
At 6'6", 185 pounds, Tom plays forward, where he displays a fine shooting touch from the corners. His opportunity to take the outside shot did not come until his senior year at Loyola High School in downtown Los Angeles, after playing two seasons at center. That year, he averaged 26 ppg, but ·escaped recognition from the press, even though he par­ticipated in a California all-star game. He explained, "Los Angeles doesn't have a truly local paper of its own, while many suburban towns cac build up local players in their own papers." 
The Catholic school mythology played a large part in bringing Tom to Notre Dame; still, he didn't know quite what to expect here. "You can't tell too much about a college without having lived there." College ball initially impressed Tom as being quite difficult, but after his success on the Irish freshman and varsity, he put his fears to rest. "You build up these things, how hard it'll be and all that, and then you find out it's not as dif­ficult as you thought." In his studies, his fear of rough courses. likewise proved unfounded; presently he carries close to a Dean's list average, practice time and outside reading not­withstanding. 
Tom is a great believer in "the little things" in basketball games. "Take the shooting background, for example. It's tough for a visiting ballplayer to get used to." O'Mara also has a thing on nets: he claims that the long, stringy variety make the hoop look bigger. There might be something to it, since Tulane used Tom's favorite nets and he responded by throwing in 35 points. 
Since the arrival of Digger Phelps and his staff at Notre Dame, according to O'Mara, the little things on defense have kept the Irish in games against highly­regarded opponents. "All it takes is a little bit of defense to win Tom O'Mara drives to the basket against Marquette. The soph for­ward is Notre Dame's second leading scort>r this year with a 1:1.2 avl.'t'agl.'. ballgames. "If we keep it up, we sheet of paper in a typewriter, can turn those close losses into and people would, from time to wins before too long." time, go over and type out their 

But the temptation to move into thoughts. By the end of the other subjects was again too summer, we had fifty or seventy-much for Tom. five pages, and it was hard to tell He picked up a book on Zen and who had contributed which part Gestalt psychology that he had of it." been reading before, explaining As for this coming summer, the author's ideas on therapy. Tom hoped to once again live 
Then conversation turned once together with his friends, who more to the commune, with Tom want to open their own ice-cream describing the journal that the stand and coffeehouse residents had pieced together somewhere in Los Angeles. And, early grade-school days, Tom also plans to spend time on the lonely courts of the city, just shooting baskets and thinking. 
Interhall Info 
The Interhall Athletics office will hold the following events: 
Undergrad doubles handball tourney -Three classifications: A <Advanced players), B <In­termediate), C <Novice). Both players must live in same hall; Deadline for entries, Feb. 4. 
Grad school doubles handball tourney -Two classifications: A <Advanced), B <Intermediate). Open to any Grad student. Deadline for entries, Feb. 1. 
Student-Faculty squash tourney-No classifications. Open to any student or N.D. faculty member. Deadline for entries Feb. 1. ' 
Volleyball tourney -Rosters must consist of no less than seven men and include captain and phone number. Entry deadline, Feb. 2. 
Grad school volleyball tourney Same rules as undergrad 
volleyball.  Entry deadline, Feb.  
5.  
Faculty  and  Grad  student  

tennis tour~ey -Singles only; Entry deadlme, Jan 31. 
To enter any of these events, call 6100, 8975, or the Interhall issue room; or go to the Interhall 
over the summer. "We left an old rJ-·u_s_t_as.;..;,ohe.;..;,oha;;;s;;.b;;.ee;.;;,;;n;.;d;;.;o;.;,;in;.;2.;s;;.;i,;,;nc;,;e:;.;,;;hi:.::·s~.:.;:o.:.:ff.:.:ic;.;e;,:.,..;;C;;,.-4.:..;:o;:.f.::.th:.::e:;;..,:.A:.;;C;.;C;;,;.____ 

Frosh phenom phases fans 
by Joe Passiatore 
Gary Brokaw was seven years 

old when he decided that he 
wanted to be a professional 
basketball player. He's been in 
hot pursuit of that goal ever 
since. Fortunately for Digger 
Phelps, and Irish basketball fans, 
the 6'3" phenom has chosen 
Notre Dame as his springboard to 
the pros. 
In signing with Notre Dame, 

Brokaw overlooked three of the 
top basketball colleges in the 
country-U.C .L.A., Marquette 
and U.S.C. Oddly enough it was 
not Phelps who lured Brokaw to 
Notre Dame, but former 
assistant coach Gene Sullivan. 
Brokaw was wavering between 
Marquette and Notre Dame 
before he made his final decision. 
"I really admire AI McGuire, but Sullivan talked of the tough schedule Notre Dame plays and how the team always gets a lot of national exposure, so I signed with Notre Dame." Two days later Digger Phelps was named to the head coaching job and from what Brokaw's shown on the court so far, Phelp's should be forever grateful to Sullivan. 
Brokaw's play on the freshmen team has been electrifying fans to the point that the inevitable comparisons with Austin Carr are now a favorite conversation topic. And, although some may call it sacrilege, the comparisons are valid. Brokaw's been scoring close to 35 points a game, he is always among the game's leaders in rebounds, and he is an excellent ballhandler. He usually draws the toughest defensive assignment, as was evidenced last Monday night when he guarded 6'8" Maurice Lucas of Marquette and held him to 24 points. 
Granted, Brokaw doesn't quite have the outside shot that Carr had, but then, who does? Brokaw prides himself on being a com­plete ballplayer and he can play forward or guard equally well. When asked if he ever saw Carr play, Gary answered, "No, not in person, just on T.V. a couple of times. I like to watch all the good players and try and pick up their strong-points." 
Does he have a preference between guard or forward? "I'd much rather play guard than forward. I like to handle the ball and quarterback the offense." 
When asked if he had to score a certain number of points in order to consider his performance in a game successful, Gary replied, "I think I've had a good game if I've influenced the outcome of the game in our favor. I don't care how I do it." 
Brokaw may be comparable to Carr in attitude also. He's rather quiet, has a very good tem­perament, and carries an unassuming air of self-confidence about him. When questioned about whether he'll be a success on the varsity next year, he answers with a simple "Yes, I think so," that is thoroughly convincing. 
As far as being under pressure to score a lot of points now that he is being looked upon as a potential varsity star, Brokaw commented, "I don't mind any pressure from the fans, I like to please the crowd. The only pressure I worry about is the defensive pressure opposing coaches and players use to try and stop me from scoring." 
Does he like to shoot from the outside or drive down the lane? "If I can take advantage of my man I'll drive on him, but a lot depends on the situation in the game and what the coach want­s." 
The subject of personal goals was raised and Brokaw offered, "I want to be a member of a national championship team before I graduate." When asked if he sincerely believed this goal to be attainable he answered, "Why not? John Shumate will be back next year, he stops getting therapy for his leg this month. We're going to be a lot better than people will expect and some teams are going to learn this the hard way." 
Finally next year's coach was brought up and Brokaw said of Digger Phelps, "He's a good coach. He knows the game and is a nice guy. As far as generating enthusiasm, he's the best I've ever seen." 
WCHA Standings 
W L T Pis GF GA 

Wisconsin .. . .. .. 13 3 0 34 82 44 
Minn.·Duluth. . 10 8 8 26 85 74 
North Dakota g 7 0 26 65 64 
Denver . .. .. . .. 10 6 0 24 77 61 
Notre Dam~ .... 7 7 0 22 68 65 
Mich. State. . 8 .9 0 20 68 59 
Mich. Tech.. .. . 7 8 0 20 68 67 
Colo. College . . 7 10 0 20 75 83 
Michigan . .. . . . . 6 9 0 12 54 84 
Minnesota . .. . .. . 3 13 0 6 43 84 
WEEKEND RESULTS 

Notre-Dame 5-8. Minnesota 4-3 
North Dakota ~. Colorado College 
7·! 
Minn.·Duluth H. Denver 2-4 
Michigan Tech 3-6. Michigan ~8 
WEDNESDAY'S GAME 

Air Force at Denver 
WEEKEND SERIES 

Wisconsin at Notre Dame (ACC, 7:45 
p.m.) 
Denver at Minnesota 
Michigan at North Dakota 
Lake Superior State at Michigan 
Tech IRISH STATISTICS 
Gms G A Pts. P~DD·Mia 

R~gan. w.... 20 22 15 37 21-42 
WilUams, w .17 17 17 34 13·26 
Nob~. c ..... 18 7 27 34 7·14 
Bumbacco, w20 17 16 33 1-2 
CampbeU, c. 20 7 16 23 11-18 
Keatmg. w .. 15 8 9 17 2-4 
D~Lorenzi, wl9 5 10 15 3-6 
G~n. d .. 20 5 9 14 16-32 
Nyrop. d .20 2 12 14 21-42 
Curry. d .20 I 10 II 22-44 
Schafer, w .20 4 7 II 7-14 
Cordes. w . 20 4 4 8 4-8 
Conroy. c .. 14 4 3 7 1·2 
Steinborn. d 19 0 7 7 6-12 
Lindsey. c .. 10 I 3 4 ~0 
Israelson. w .20 2 I 3 4-8 
Bonk, c.. . . . 18 0 I I 1·2 
Tardani, w 6 I 0 I 1-2 
Tomasom. g. 17 0 I I ~0 
Larson. d. .20 0 0 0 6-12 
Bench 1·2 
Notre Dame 20 107 168 275 146-292 
Opponents. .20 93 134 227 125-266 
Power Play Goals -Notre Dame 29 
of 81 (36 per cent); Opponents 24 of 107 
(22 per cent). 
Shorthanded Goals -Notre Dame 4, 
Opponents I 
Goaltenders G GA Avg. San•s SO 
Tomasuni 16.17 69' 4.27 :;og 0 
Kronholm 2.67 II 4.12 72 I 
Cathcart 1.33 II 8.27 47 0 
Notre Da'11e 20.17 91' 4.51 628 I Opponents 20.17 104" 5.16 609 0 
•Docs not include 2 open net goals ''Does not include 3 open net goals 
Jim Donaldson..''"''""~·="'"'*"''"'*''"""'*"'""' The Irish Eye 

When Johnny Dee resigned as head basketball coach at Notre Dame 
last spring, his top assistant for the past four years, Gene Sullivan <ND 
'53) applied for the job. Sullivan very much wanted to try his hand at 
directing Notre Dame's cage fortunes but the powers that be 
bypassed him in favor of "Digger" Phelps. Sullivan, since it was too 
late in the year to think of applying for a position elsewhere, found 
himself separated from the game of basketball and with time on his 
hands. 
Not one to sit idle, Sullivan decided to write a book. Naturally, the 
book is about his favorite topic, basketball. More specifically, it's 
about Notre Dame basketball and, like the man himself, it's first 
class. 
Entitled A Frame or Mind Game, the book is divided into four sec­tions, which are as pleasing to a basketball fan, especially a Notre Dame supporter, as a one-point, overtime game. 
The first section, "The Grand Design", is all about the preparations the Irish made for their Dec. 7, 1968 meeting with UCLA in the dedication game for the Athletic and Convocation Center while the second, "The Upset", relates how the Irish handed the Bruins the only loss they were to sustain enroute to their fifth straight national title a year ago. 
Sullivan explains, in depth, the game plans that the Irish devised in order to cope with the awesome talents of John Wooden's national champions. In addition he reveals behind-the-scenes happenings that were major factors in the outcome of those two classic collegiate battles. 
Sullivan takes an in-depth look at Austin Carr in the third section of his book, "Study of a Superstar", describing the pressures Carr· overcame in his tremendous career. "Sully" gives us a close-up view of Carr, the All-American and, more importantly, of Carr, the person. 
The final portion of A Frame or Mind Game is devoted to Sullivan's 
<'xperience in "Coaching the Black Athlete." The highlight of this 
section is a reflection on the "Booing Incident" which took place in the 
'68-'69 season and its subsequent effect on team morale. 
The "Booing Incident" occured at the Convo during the Notre Dame-Michigan State game. When Dee removed captain and All­American Bob Arnzen, a white player, from the game and reinserted Bob Whitmore, a black player, into the lineup the Irish had five blacks on the court for the first time in their history. Dee's manuever was greeted by boos from the student body which Dee and Sullivan felt was an expression of displeasure at Dee's strategy of taking out Arnzen, who had a hot hand, but which the blacks on the team interpreted as a racial slur. 
The matter was finally cleared up but it left a permanent psychological scar with the club that Sullivan felt adversely affected their performance the rest of the season. 
It isn't often that a book is written about people that one knows personally or about a subject that one is closely affiliated with but, for people at Notre Dame, that what Sullivan's book is all about. It's about guys that we went to class with and lived with and cheered for. 
T<'chnically interesting and filled with insight into the personalities of the players who wore Notre Dame uniforms the past few seasons, 1 can think of no basketball book that would make more enjoyable reading. 
Page 8 THE OBSERVER Thursday, January 27, 1972 



Soviets chide Nixon for military budget 
by Hedrick Smith 

(c) l!li2 New York Times News Service 
Moscow, Jan. 26--Two authoritative Soviet newspapers chided President Nixon today for the increases in military spen­ding in his news budget but 
SLC Feb agenda not yet ready 
by B. Long 

The Steering Committee of the 
Student Life Council has not yet 
formulated the agenda for the 
SLC's February 17 meeting 
according to Steering Committee 
Chairman, 'Floyd Kezele. 

Kezele said that letters listing 
possible discussion subjects 
"have been mailed out to each 
member of the other three 
committee." These committees 
<Planning, Hall Life, and Rules 
and Regulations) will be meeting 
independently during the next 
two weeks. 
carefully avoided any suggestion that these would disrupt the Strategic Arms Negotiations in Vienna. 
Commentaries in both Pravada, the Communist party newspaper, and Izvestia, the government newspaper, were much milder than a commentary last Friday in Krasnaya Zvezda, the armed forces newspaper. 
This was taken as a possible indication of misgivings in some military circles about aspects of the arms talks despite the assessment of American officials that the political leadership in the Kremlin is interest in reaching agreement before President Nixon visits Moscow in May. 
Krasnaya Zvezda directed its sharpest criticism at the ad­ministration's plans to speed development of a new nuclear armed submarine, justified in Washington as a reaction to the rapid expansion of the Soviet submarine fleet. 
"It is obvious," Krasnaya Zvezda asserted. "The certain miliatristic circles in the United States are trying to interfere with Soviet-American negotiations on the limitation of strategic weapons." 
Privately, Soviet civilian sources have said that the President's proposal for $900 million to improve the American submarine fleet could be in­terpreted as a bargaining tactic to press Soviet negotiators to accept Washington's proposal to limit sea-based milliles. 
In Vienna, the United States has advocated limiting each side to the number of nuclear-armed submarines it now possesses. The United States has 41 sub­marines in operation, each with 16 nuclear-tipped missiles. the Soviet Union has about 30 such submarines in operation and a dozen under construction. So far Moscow has reportedly refused to put a limit on the submarine fleets. ­

The commentary in Krasnaya Zvezda could be an indication that some military officials want the Kremlin to continue to resist American pressures on this point to allow a further build-up of the Soviet submarine fleet, using the increased American program as a _reason. 
The Pravada and Izvestia commentaries avoided specific comments on the submarine build-up issue, giving no in­
dication  where  the  civilian  
leadership  stands.  But  the  
relatively  restrained  tenor  of  

their criticism seemed to confirm earlier indications of Moscow's interest in reaching some arms agreement this spring. 
Izvestia dismissed an un-­justified the administration's contention that American in-­creases were needed to match the Soviet arms build-up." 
Dairy suit 1noney total rises 
Daniel Berrigan paroled: to be released Feb. 24 
When released, Berrigan, 51, <c> 1972 New York Times will be under parole supervision 

at Woodstock College inNew 

Washington, Jan 26--The Rev. York City. He is now at the Daniel Berrigan, a major figure Federal Correctional Institution in the United States anti-war in Danbury, Conn. movement, was granted parole Berrigan is the brother of the from Federal prison today. The Rev. Philip F. Berrigan, now on ailing Jesuit will be ·released trial in Harrisburg, Pa., on Feb. 24, nine months earlier than charges of participating in a plot the end of his sentence. to kidnap Henry A. Kissinger, the 
Berrigan is serving a three-presidential National Security year term for his role in the Adviser. burning of draft records by the Philip Berrigan is serving a 

r1l£.P 

"Catonsville Nine" in Caton-six-year sentence, also for sville, Md. He was to be released, destroying draft records. He has with credit for good behavior, in been turned down for parole at 
10 %OFF 

November, but technically his least until January, 1973. 
On any mechanical 

sentence does not expire until Daniel Berrigan has been 
work and winterizing

August 1973. described as suffering from The decision was announced by circulatory ailments, an ulcer, the United States Board of and hernia trouble. Parole. In its announcement, the -====~;.·~~::;;iiiiiiill 
For Students and

board cited information about I 
University Personnel

Berrigan's poor health, including 
a letter in his handwriting. 
Roseland Gulf 402 U.S. 31 North Across 
from Burger King 

Co-ex tix to be 
handled by halls 
At The End Of Your Day Peace, by Peggy Cullinane Prayer, And The Word Of God The Hall President's Council L M C M O 
last night voted 15-2 to distribute 118 e ans, ampus inistry ffice 
co-ex meal tickets in the halls SM C instead of at the Student Union Office. The HPC will distribute All Welcome tickets on a rotating basis; each This Thursday And Every Thursday hall will receive 50 tickets apiece 10 pm to 11 pm 
on designated days. According to HPC chairman, Ed Motto, For More Info Call Tracy 4941 or Bob 
participation in co~x dining has 3533. increased, but he "hopes this t-=========-------------------1 
measure will encourage even further co-operation." The HPC will inform co~x Dining Com­missioner Gary Caruso, of thier decision. 
Keenan Hall President Dave Liring, asked other presidents how they dealt with cases of hall damages. Morrisey President John Kwicien, suggested that the hall bill guilty members, or af­flicted sections if no culprit could be found. The Council discussed the problem, but reached no decision. 
Council members also talked 
about the election of new hall 
presidents, which will be coming 
up in the next two or three Shoppingmonths. Motto will continue to Center-Mishawaka, Indhma serve as Charirman of HPC on an 
7:1:15
extended term until April. 


(continued from page 6) 

into the campaign accounts of four other republican finance committees. 
4. And on March 25, with the dairy money flowing , Hardin announced that the milk price support level would go up, after all. 
After the White House meeting of March 23 and Hardin's change of mind on March 25 the Nader suit said, TAPE, SPACE, and ADEPT, the three dairy political trusts, contributed another $287,500 to various standing and dummy committees here "for the renomination and-or re~lection of the incumbent president, Richard M. Nixon," according to the suit: 
--On April 5, ADEPT -the "education" arm of mid-America dairies--put an additional $45,000 into nine regular GOP finance committees. 
--On Julv 9, TAPE began an apparent attempt to disguise its payments by conyributing $125,000 in equal sums of $2,500 each to 50 dummy committees with names like Americans Dedicated to a Better Public Administration, the League for Concerted Action, the League of Dedicated Voters, and such. 

--On Aug. 19, SPACE sent a further $30,000 in $2,500 in­stallments to a dozen other paper committees--the Association for the Preservation of Basic American Ideals Committee, the supporters of the American Dream Committee, the Americans Involved Committee, and the Association of Involved Volunteers Committee, and the like --all identified in the suit as "Nixon Committees." 
--On Aug. 20, ADEPT gave $15,000 in $2,500 checks to six by­now familiar sounding com­mittees, none of which quite duplicated the others: The Organization for Involved Americans, Americans United for Political Awareness, Americans United for Political Involvement, and the like. 
--On Sept. 10, TAPE sent an additional $62,500 to 25 further dummy committees--volunteers against Citizen Aparthy, and so on. 
And on Nov. 9, SPACE and ADEPT contributed $5,000 each to the republicans' fund-raising "Salute to the President Dinner." 
Before the dairy co-op political finance trusts adeptly turned to the republicans' Nixon-financing groups as their beneficiaries, the Nader suit said, 13 senators and 47 representatives--all among the sponsors of an astonishing rash of bills between March 16 and 25, 1971, that would have overriden Hardin's March 12 refusal to ( raise milk prices-had received a total of $187,124 from TAPE, SPACE and ADEPT since 1969. 






