
it's three to one for no snow this weekend. that's one bet you won't find at mardi gras-the odds are too great. 


Vol. VI, No. 76 notre dame -st. mary's Friday, February 11, 1972 

In Howard address 
Hesburgh stresses need for co-operation 
by Ann McCarry were over there." he told one Walsh resident, "I wouldn't agree with it either." 
"If you want girls on campus you can't "You assume that no matter what halls put them in tents," Rev. Theodore you choose you are going to get static." 
Hesburgh, University president said to Fr. Hesburgh supported the decision of several unhappy residents of Walsh and the committee headed by Fr. Blantz and Badin Halls in the Howard Hall chapel last Fr. Burtchaell and explained the prin­
night. ciples on which the committee based its 
The residents were among a crowd of choices of Walsh and Badin. The halls approximately 100 students that gathered were chosen primarily on the basis of their to hear the University's president discuss location and size, he claimed. The location topics which ranged from coeducation to of the halls near the center of the campus the future of Notre Dame, to the needs of will provide for more effective protectionthe law school. of the 325 girls, Fr. Hesburgh cited, who 
Notre Dame's President agreed with the will enroll next fall as the University's first 
decision to house women in Badin and coeds. The committee also concluded,
Walsh and disputed the view that the law according to the President, that it would be 
school had not received enough aid from better to choose two smaller halls so as not 
the university, saying it had received a to concentrate the female population in 
"disproportionate" amount of money. He one larger hall. 
expressed his commitment to merger and Fr. Hesburgh stressed the need for the 
said he felt something could be worked out cooperation of all the hall presidents in 
between the two schools. efforts to comfortably move the displa~ed
On the selection of Walsh and Badin as residents into other halls. "We'll · do the new women's residence halls, Fr. everything possible to see that the guys get 
Hesburgh remarked that he had expected a reasonably good deal." feedback. Fr. Hesburgh also reminded students "If you want the value of girls on that in the next four years, while the 
campus, you have to have static."-If I enrollment of female students is being expanded, the same procedure will be followed every year. ,,. The president also vetoed the idea of coed dorms. "The Trustees don't want coed dorms and neither do I," Fr. Hesburgh continued saying that he had decided after research 
on the subject that coed dorms do not provide the privacy both men and women Fr. Hesburgh disagreed with this need. He cited promiscuity as another statement citing figures which upheld his 
argument against co-habitation. statement that Notre Dame had spentFr. Hesburgh said that although at the more on the law school than on any other 
present time there are no definite plans to college of the university. He said that a build any new residence halls, the ex­"disproportionate amount of money" has panded enrollment of women might been allocated to the school both in necessitate a new bui1ding in the future. scholarships and in faculty salaries. He expects the general enrollment to be In regard to the new addition to the maintained with perhaps a slight increase present law college, Fr. Hesburgh said due to coeducation. that he would like to see a completely new 
One student questioned Fr. Hesburgh on law building at ND, but he explained that the sentiment among members of the law at the present time this is not feasible. The school that the University had not done all 
(Continued on page 8)
it could have for the school. 

by Ed Ellis 
necessarily be the case with the block 
ticket.
The Notre Dame Student Senate ap­Miss Gallina and several Senators spoke proved Student Body Presidential election for the measure, but the Election Com­rules last night that will allow for volun­mittee recommendation passed, 23 to 8. 
tary coalitions of Notre Dame and Saint In other election-related business, theMary's candidates, but will not mandate Senate moved the dates for the election
ND Senate 
the "four-man block" campaign that Saint and the campaign seven days forwardMary's approved Wednesday night. 
because of Junior Parents' Weekend,The Student Government Election which is scheduled for March 3-5.
Committee had come away from a The voting will now take place Tuesday, meeting with the SMC Election Committee February 29.
OK's optional last Sunday without reaching a com­
Campaigning will begin at noon,promise on the question of the election. The February 23, and end at 2 am on the 29th.
Notre Dame Committee recommended no A run-off election, required if no can­merger of tickets, and the committee didate receives a majority in the first report was accepted by a 23 to 8 vote. 
election, will take place Thursday, March ' Defending the "four-way street" was 2.

coalitions in 
Darlene Gallina, SMC Assembly Added to the ballot this year will be arepresentative and member of the Plection 
selection titled "None of the above." N D and SMC lacking.
committee. 
This was done on a motion by Sorin Hall Miss Gallina argued that the cooperation Senator "Lefty" Ruschman.
that was lacking this year between the two According to this plan, if "None ofstudent governments could only be

SBP election 
these" tallies over 50 per cent of the vote, aassured by having both sets of candidates new election will be held, and none of the come from the same ticket. 
candidates from the first election may be Also, she added, "Regardless of the placed on the ballot. 
status of the merger between the two A motion sponsored by Student Bodyschools, we are all students and have President John Barkett "recommending"certain issues in common." 
that all candidates in the election findStay Senator T. C. Treanor raised two running-mates on the other campus passed objections to the plan. 
by a 24 to 8 vote. 
He pointed out that one of the schools In other business, a resolution endorsing could be saddled with a minority a Prisoner-of-War bracelet sale on campuspresident, and that there would always be received Senate approval with twoissues the two student bodies did not hold 
dissenting votes. 

..
in common. 
The bracelet sale, sponsored by ChuckDave Jones, Senator from Breen­
Leader, is intended as a show of concern ,( 
Phillips Hall, also argued against the \;
for the welfare of POW's in Vietnam. Each 
proposal to merge the .election, saying, '·"" ··. .
bracelet carries the name of one American
"The goal of the election is to get the best Treanor: Possible
soldier missing in action or known to be a
candidates from each campus." disagreements on some issues
prisoner in Southeast Asia.
Jones pointed out that this would not between student bodies. 




' '· 

Page 2 THE OBSERVER. Friday, February 11, 1972 
Observer Insight 
MAIN CHURCH 

SUNDAY MASSES


Mardi Gras nets a cool 
5:15p.m. Sat. Fr. Bob Griffin, C.S.C.

127 thousand since 1963 
9:30a.m. Sun. Fr. Bernard Clark, C.S.C. 
by Noli Kane 
As Mickey's hand moves toward 7 o'clock, bankers shove stacks of $5 bills to card dealers; concession sellers pop corn and spin cotton candy ; the roulette wheel is greased, and the doors are unlocked to Mardi Gras 1972, at Stepan Center, Feb. 5th through 12th. 
"Jiminy Crickets," thinks the student, on entering Stepan Center. The interior is tran­sformed into a Mid-America Disneyland complete with dwarves, Peter Pan and Tinkerbell, Pinnochio and other Disney favorites. Black jack, poker, roulette, movies, picture taking booths, crap games and snack bars all tug at the attention and purse strings. 
Admittedly, an evening at Mardi Gras is not cheap -but it isn't intended to be. All profits go to charities such as Manasa, Neighborhood Student Help Program and Sr. Marita 's Day School. 
Raffling off a '72 Grand Prix should rake in the most cash, although this year's raffle is falling behind the expectations of Greg Stepic, General Chairman of Mardi Gras. To date, the raffle has collected $14,000. 
Finances 
Since 1963, financial records show Mardi Gras has made $127,000 for charity. Mardi Gras '66, '67, and '68 reaped fat profits of $22,000 apiece. 
Then came the financial disaster of 1969 when the carnival lost $3,500 and paid its debts by borrowing money from the Student Government. Mardi Gras tried again in 1970 and netted $11,000. 
The slump in profits was caused by students' growing apathy towards the purpose of Mardi Gras, which is to earn money for charity, according to Stepic. "Mardi Gras is wor­thwhile only if everyone gets involved in it," he said. 
Mardi -Gras has also faced dollar disaster at the hands of burglars last February and again this year. In 1971 a thief hid in Stepan Center at closing time, and stole $2,200 in bogus $5 bills. Serious loss was averted by refusing to honor the fake money for the remainder of the carnival. Officials estimated a $100 cash loss. 
Sunday night the carnival was burglarized, again for $5 bills worth $2,000 in real cash. A special stamp on all money is being used this year to prevent 

10% OFF 
On any mechanical 
work and winterizing. 
For students and 
University Personnel 
Roseland Gulf 402 U.S. 31 North Across from Burger King 
The Observer is published dailY during the college semester eccept vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556, Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 
any loss. 1ne colorful _paper and wood booths which house the games are operated by Notre Dame halls, organizations and clubs that want to make money. To get a booth into Stepan ('enter, each organization submitted a design to the ar­chitecture chairman. The best designs won a place to set up on the condition that they gave 80 per cent of their profit to charity. Construction of the booths began January 25, but planning and preparation starts in Sep­tember when dates ·are cleared, raffle tickets ordered, and en­tertainers booked. 
Earliest Records 
Earliest records of Mardi Gras date to 1962, although one alumnus, reminiscing during a football game this fall, claimed there was a Mardi Gras back in 1951. And a police guard says he has patrolled Mardi Gras since he joined the force in 1958, when the carnival, then much smaller, was set up in the old fieldhouse. 
Past "big concerts," at the end of Mardi Gras week, have spotlighted such groups as "The Four Tops", "Grand Funk," David Frye and the "Supremes." 
This year Richie Havens and the '.'Winter Consort" will play Sunday at 8 p.m. 
J-0:45 a.m. Sun. Fr. Aidan Kavanaugh, O.S.B. 12:15p.m. Sun. Fr. Bill Toohey, C.S.C. 



Hit tunes, show tunes, new tunes, rock, pop, folk... even some oldies but goodies!!! 

uesday, Feb. 15 8:00pm Free Concert O'Laughlin Aud. 
( THE OBSERVER ) 

Reversal feasible, 

The Badin and Walsh Situation 


three Walsh residents 


Friday, February 11, 1972 Page 3 
Possibly unprintable musings on the shuttle bus find articulation through cuttering teeth. 


But there's still hope 
lor partial sections 
Displaced students from Badin and Walsh may be able to get rooms together in other halls around campus, director of Student Housing, Fr. Thomas E. Chambers explained yesterday. 
./ 
Up to ten students might be able to get adjacent rooms, the Holy Cross priest said. 
~7 
However, Fr. Chambers added, nothing will be deinite till the 


--1results are in on a survey of who is staying on campus, and who is moving off campus. Quotas for each hall and picking procedures will then have to be made. He also commented that he and the Hall Presidents Council will do all they can to make the move easy for the residents of Badin and Walsh. 
Bill Dembinski, President of Holy Cross, said that his hall could possibly give up a group of rooms together for 6-10 students. He added that he thought other 

There's more than one way to make a hall livable.
halls might have some difficulty doing this. 
Agreeing with him was Ron Pogge of Alumni, who said that he was "favorable to the idea" of giving the displaced students groups of rooms. He also com­mented that everyone will have to sacrifice, not just the residents of Badin and Walsh. 
Phil Michaels of Dillon said that giving a block of rooms would be "very difficult" for his hall. He suggested that each hall be assigned a quota of displaced students and that these students be given full rights for room picks as if they had been in the hall since they were freshmen. 



say of dorm choices 
by Pete Fries and John Klose 
Walsh residents are split in their feelings regarding the recent decision to convert Walsh and Badin halls into female dormitories. All 10 residents interviewed were disappointed with the decision, but only 3 held any hope of a reversal. 
Sophomore Mark Thickpenny believes a reversal is feasible because " ... there are many valid reasons why Walsh is an illogical choice. Also, we think we can get the majority of the rectors on our side." 
Other students, however, think their chances are slim but still intend to write to the alumni to invoke a reversal. One of these students, Ed Gray, another sophomore, said "there isn't a whole lot you can say. It's a bad decision. The ideal situation would be a university-wide pick and let the girls pick into any hall they choose. Right now it's just a little St. Mary's ." 
Further opposition was expressed by Don Flake who felt that the women " ... should be treated just as Notre Dame students and not be given any preference." 
Another one of these students is Jerry Bushelman, a sophomore who worked on the committee which studied the location of female housing. He commented that "There would be ill-feeling if it (the decision) were changed." Bushelman also felt that the members of the committee were slighted and should have been con­sulted in the decision. 
The rest of the students interviewed are looking farther ahead to what can be done to help themselves find suitable housing. Many expressed the same feeling as that of Bob "Bruiser" Fanning a junior resident of Walsh who will "take it in stride and see about what the university does in relocating the students." All the residents felt that the university should have made suitable arrangements for displaced students. 



and here are soDle other thoughts on the subject .. • 


Page 4 THE OBSERVER Friday, February 11, 1972 

v.rorld briefs 
(c) 1972 The New York Times 

Pat·is--The chief American delegate at the Vietnam peace talks refused to agree to a date for the next session and accused North Vietnam of organizing a rally near Paris to place "intolerable" pressure on the negotiators. 
Saigon--Military spokesmen in Saigon reported increased enemy attacks on South Vietnamese positions in the central highlands and the heaviest American air strikes in six months in retaliation for the at­tacks. The central highlands is where officials have predicted a major enemy offensive during the Tet holiday. 
Washington--The Price Commission ordered p~vately ~~ed utilities not to raise their rates for one month pendmg commtsston hearings on "more explicit" guidelines on utility rates. In. another action, the commission temporarily rescinded part of a rate mcrease granted the New york Telephone Co. 
Washington--President Nixon, at his news conference, said he had ordered a study on whether a constitutional amendment or congressional action would be needed to stop the extensive busing ordered by courts to achieve school integration. The President has long opposed busing. 
Washington--Sharpening his attack on the Democratic presidential candidates who disagree with his Vietnam peace plan, President Nixon said that his critics might have to share the blame for the failure of the Paris talks. He said criticism of his policies encourages the communists to wait until after the presidential election before seriously negotiating. 
on campus today 
friday 
3:30 7:00 9:00p.m. film--notorius, carroll hall-smc. 7:30p.m. wrestling--nd vs. findley, ace. 
8:00 to 12:00 jam session -the great rock orchestra, rathskellar 
8: 15 p.m. concert --em me kemp trio, library auditorium. 7:00 9:00p.m. film--shorts, engineering 11uditorium. saturday 
1:30 p.m. fencing --triangular meet: nd, u of detroit, u of chicago, auxiliary gym, ace. 
1:40 p.m. basketball--nd vs. depaul, ace. 2:00p.m. swimming--nd vs. st. bonaventure, rockne pool. 
2:00 8:00p.m. film--the ritual, engtneering aud. 
3:30 7:00 9:00 film--the sleeping car murder, carroll hall, smc. 
7:00 p.m. india night --dances, sitar and other cuttural events, funds donated to bengali relief, o'laughlln aud., $2.00. 
9:00p.m. art show opening-· cynthai huff, e. michael mc­donough, isis gallery, fieldhouse. sunday 
1:00 to 5:00 black cultural arts day--photography, black liberation singers, poetry, ballroom, Iafortune. 
2:00 8:00 film--m, carroll hall, smc. 
7:30 p.m. concert--richie havens and winter consort, ace, 
$4.50, 3.50 and 2.50 all weekend--mardi gras festival7:00 tonight and saturday, 
1:00 sunday, all proceeds to notre dame charities, stepan center. 
nd-smc 
Riehle fed up 


Shoplifters to go 
Shoplifting in the Notre Dame bookstore will be a little more costly now that Dean of Students Rev. James Riehle plans to immediately suspend any student convicted of the crime. 
"My patience is at an end." commented Fr. Riehle. "I plan to threaten the heck out of the students now." 
Fr. Riehle recently announced that "any student apprehended and convicted of stealing ... will be suspended for the current semester." 
Since December I, 1971, the Dean has talked to 70 students who were apprehended at­tempting to steal articles in the bookstore ranging from 49 cent Bic _pens to $20 textbooks. One was suspended while the others were put on disciplinary probation. 
"Fromnow on, there won't be any more second offenders," remarked Fr. Riehle. 
The great increase in the number of shoplifters caught in the past two months is attributed to the stricter security measures being employed in the bookstore. 
Fr. Riehle said he has heard every conceivable rationalization for stealing from those already apprehended. Some told him, "it's a big joke to tell your friends you swiped something from the bookstore." Others say, "the 
Dance a dance for Mardi Gras 
by Marlene Zloza "Mardi Gras Super Soul," a dance in co-operation ·with the Mardi Gras Festivities, is scheduled for tonight, from 9:00 to 1:00, in Regina Hall. Billed as "a dance you can dance at" by its sponsors, the SMC Campus Ministry, the event will feature a local band, "The Impacts." All proceeds from the evening will benefit the Mardi Gras fund. Admission to the dance is 50 cents, which includes refresh­ments. The dance is open to all ND-SMC students. Co-ordinator Fr. Ned Reidy described the affair as "an effort to restore dancing to our culture. It will provide a chance to hear some good soul music." If this dance is a success, the Ministry plans to sponsor others throughout the semester, added Fr. Reidy. 

bookstore overcharges so much that I've got a right to take things." 
Almost every student ap­prehended for shoplifting had the money in his pocket, according to the Dean. 
"I can't understand why a student would now attempt to steal from the bookstore. It's ridiculous!" exclaimed Fr. Riehle. "If a student was suspended he probably could not get into another university. It would go on his permanent record, and he could forget about any Law School or Med School in the country." 
Prior to 1968 the penalty for stealing in the Notre Dame Book Store was immediate suspension upon conviction. However, Fr. Riehle considered it too severe and began a policy of disciplinary probation for first offenders with suspension upon the second of­fense. 
The Dean is now convinced his policy failed. "It's my hope and prayer that extreme measures such as these will resolve the problem," he said. 
Cultural Arts Commission's Cinema '72 
MONDAY, FEB. 7, AT 7 AND 9:30 
Shorts: 

CAMPUS CHRISTIE, CRASY RAY, ENTR'ACTE, BEGONE D LL CARE, FALL OF THE HOUSE OF TRlPTOTHEMOON (MELIES), ADVENTURES OF AN ANEMIC CINEMA, LABYRINTH 
TUESDAY, FEB. 8, AT 7 AND 9 TRANS-EUROP EXPRESS by Alain Robbe -Grillet plus the short CAMPUS CHRISTIE 

ditte~atd thit notice, hut come in
1

and Vlfif out H.EW tfote. 
ONE BLOCK EAST OF NOTRE DAME CAMPUS OFF JUNIPER ROAD. GIFTS • BOOKS • POSTERS • GREETING CARDS OPEN MONDAY & THURSDAY TILL 7:00PM. BROWSERS WELCOME. FREE PARKING. 

ABUINAS BOOK SHOP 
18717 BULLA ROAO,SOUTH BEND.IND. 46637 TELEPHONE 219/272-1704 
THURSDAY, FEB. 10, AT 7 AND 9 GREETINGS by Brian De Palma 
FRIDAY, FEB. 11 AT 7 AND 9 riverrun by John Korty 
Engi~ee~ing $l.OO 
Aud1tonum 
patrons free 

Patron Cards 
Available -$5.00 

BIGBIE 




HAVENS WINJEI CIINSIIHT 
in the A.C.C. 
Tickets $2.50, $3.50, & $4.50 
on sale at the Student Union Ticket Office, the A.C.C. and the (foor. 


Friday, February 11, 1972 THE, OBSERVER Page 5 
Nixon awaits peace response from Hanoi 
thcoming trip to China. He Chinese mainland. pro-Bengalese, pro-Pakistan, but be devised that would make it , by Terence Smith fielded questions on a wide range --He will defer any decision on mostly pro-peace." less regressive. 
(C) 1!172 Nt>w York Times of issues and made the following the recognition of the new state of --he has decided against any --he has ordered a study to 
Washington, Feb. 10 --points: Bangladesh, formerly East new taxes or tax increases this determine whether a con­President Nixon sought today to --he will depart for China next Pakistan, until after his return year. Although he intends to stitutional amendment or reassure President Nguyen Van Thursday and will spend two from China. Future United submit a program to replace legislation is needed to negate the Thieu about his intentions at the days in Hawaii and one in Guam States policy towards the sub­local property taxes, the value­trend of recent federal court Paris peace talks and before arriving Monday on the continent will be "pro-Indian, added tax would be used for this decisions requiring extensive simultaneously to warn North purpose only if a formula_ could busing to achieve integration.




Tuesday, Feb. 15 
8:30 pm 

Stepan Center Admission SOct 


Page 6 THE OBSERVER Friday, February 11, 1972 

THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
..:ditor-ln-Chief. Glen S. Corso Assistant Editor 
.\ssistant Editor
T.C. Treanor All successful newspapers are 
John Abowd
ceaselessly querulous and bellicose. They never ~"fend
Rusiness Manager 

anyone or anything if they can help .\dn•a·tising Manager 
Jim Jendryk it; if the job is forced upon them, Bill Bauerle they tackle it by denouncing someone or something else. 
H.L. Mencken 

Business: 283-7 471 News: 283-1715i 
A Secrecy Blanket 
Ever hear of a secrecy blanket? It is pretty much the same as a security blanket. It is used to hide behind. 
Notre Dame and St. Mary's have thrown a secrecy blanket around the recently reconvened merger talks. They have thrown a blanket around them and opened the way for them to play their little games with no outside pressure, until the second coming, or perhaps even after then. 
If the people who were in these secret talks were trustworthy then there probably wouldn't be anything to worry about, but they aren't. 
These people are the same ones who produced last November's abortion. These people are the same ones who muttered pieties about honor to assembled students and swore at each other in private. These are the same people who said they were honor bound not to reveal the reasons behind the unmerger and then leaked their version to every student reporter they met. 
So, we have a group of essentially untrustworthy people gathered together in secrecy, making decisions that could wreck people's lives. The catch is that any decisions they make won't wreck anyone's lives but ours. 
The Notre Dame and St. Mary's administration and trustees have protected themselves by having ample representation on the negotiating teams. The St. Mary's faculty is also protected by having their people present. By all indications the Notre Dame faculty neither needs nor wants a part in the proceedings. 
So who do we have left. The students naturally, the people who are the first to get nailed to the wall around this place. 
The secrecy policy is aimed at us. It is aimed at us so we won't find out what's going on until it's too late to do anything about it. It's aimed at us so as to prevent or forestall the kind of pressure that was exerted last year from being exerted again. 
The St. Mary's administration and trustees backed down last year because the students put the pressure on them. They backed down because students kicked and screamed and threatened to take their money out of the school. They backed down because they were afraid St. Mary's would end up at a bankruptcy sale in ten years. 
But that same kind of fear and that same kind of pressure won't come into play again if another adverse decision is reached. They won't come into play because if an adverse decision is reached it will be reached in secret. It will be reached in secret and if the people running the show have any kinds of smarts at all, the secrecy won't be lifted until the summer. 
We're responsible for the secrecy. We're the ones who are letting them get away with it. And we'll be the ones to blame if and when another abortion is produced. And then it will be too late. 
Staff 
Nite Editor: Joe Abell 

Ass't Nite Editors: Marlene Zloza, Maria Gallagher(a good little something -or-other) Special Help With Headlines and Layout: Jack Frischkorn, Jim McDermott, Don Ruane (in 
the batter's box) Hanging Around and Not Doing Too Much: Jerry Lutkus, John Abowd, Glen Corso, "Lefty" 
Ruschman, T.C. Treanor, and a rash of assorted writers. 

Typists: Pat Kenny, Helen Smudski, Joe Wilkows~l, John Brady, Lucy Rodarte, Fran 
Finnegan 
Headline Man: Dandy Don Biancamano Pix: Bob Hughes Sporting Editor: Jim Donaldson 
nite controller: mark j. niederkorn 

1. 
what snow drift, m? 

2. 
thanx for the pix, jim, they were really great 


3. 
z: thanx for the b-day party, gang in regina ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 



-
' '­. .,.,.. 
(
'G,·~ 
,/ 
~· ' 
'in• 
) 
) 
,/ ' \ 
) 
J ~­
r-­
' 
l 
A "Bogus-1111" 
Ed She e hy mmmlmmmmmmnmnmiiJ)Himmmmllllllllllllllllllll 


The Death of Notre Dame 
1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
As an undergraduate at Notr arne, I always found letters from old graduates a joy to read; ge rally th,ey were pathetic pleas for a ;eturn to the past, and the 1ews expressed were so completely ar­chaic as to render them ridiculous. Alumni were strange creatures, to be enjoyed over lunch and laughed at, but never, ever to be taken seriously. Notre Dame does not belong to them, despite all their claims to the contrary. 
With this in mind, I write to you. Ex-student, one year removed. I write because I have been completely puzzled by my latest visit here. Let us leave aside any pronouncements of right or wrong, good or bad. The problem is simply this: it seems to me that between last year and this something strange has occured, that something is substantially different. I don't understand this place at all any more; a year ago I was one who was sure he knew where things stood. Some of this can be traced to changes in me--a lot of it, in fact. But much of it has taken place right here. 
Notre Dame is dead. 
There is a cloud hanging over this community, a cloud which has no name but which bears a pervasive, persistant sadness. Media labels this "disillusionment;" to break it down further, it seems to me that the Notre Dame community, which remains (face it!) one of the straightest places in the country, has simply decided that if change is. gonna come, so that actually working to change things faster than this "natural" schedule would allow is a waste of time. 
-~ 
Let me just say it. This entire merger thing, and your handling of it, is making asses out of all of you. I think by now that everybody realizes that, my God, men and women really can make it together. You know it's gonna happen. Machismo really is a thing of the past. But every time you sit down to "work out the details," machismo rears its head and shouts, "I ain't got much time left but I'm gonna fight it out to the end." In a community where there are so many enlightened people--and visits elsewhere, to other large universities, show that archaity is by no means a Notre Dame exclusive -in such a community, anyone who speaks with a positive view about the future, about the future we all know has got to come, is either studiously ignored or viciously put down. So in increasing numbers those students with a view of the future move off-campus, and good educators leave Notre Dame completely. 
Buck minster Fuller is dead right when he says that if you wish to speak of the future in terms of radical change, the only way to keep people off your back is to project ahead fifty years; nobody much cares about what things will be like in 2020. To deal with what must be done in the immediate future is to invite scorn and ostracism. 
Passivity has always been one of our strong points here. We have a new kind of alchohol now, and the ritual of stoned-out sitting between the stereo speakers has become a religious ritual as stale as an old watch-the-priest Latin mass. What once had real creative possibilities, this marijuana stuff, has for most become the 1972 version of going to Frankie's. Do~sn't the phrase "Man, we were so ripped <wasted, spaced out, fucked up) last night" have a familiar ring? 
If all this seems a bit directionless, it is supposed to; remember, I am trying to describe Notre Dame as it is today, February 1972. The symptoms are everywhere. Once there literally dozens of excellent music people here, and surely there must sUlll;>e; but now they play for themselves in their rooms. Walk down a campus sidewalk and notice that in this enlightened age of Aquarius it's still considered a little wierd to talk to strangers, or even smile at them. And only the bravest black man or woman would come here to study; I wouldn't. 
Logic says that in the future no non-coeducational institution will be able to survive; that if you get ripped and just sit "getting into the music" for long enough, the building will get old and fall down around you: that you can only drive away so many good people from your midst before there's nobody left. And then you die. Sorry about that, it is a bit of a downer, but it is the way of the world. One gets the feeling that Notre Dame, without the fire and strength and calm and beauty of the feminine influence, without the cultural contribution of as many "minorities" as possible (in quotes because in world terms we Caucasians are a small minority), without any prick of conscience, is dying, insanely, like a man whose legs catch on fire and say's, "Far out, I've never been through the 'burn trip' before." 
I began by emphasizing that Notre Dame does not belong to alumni. This ain't my place we're talking about, it's yours. And I believe I can truthfully say that I don't care what you do with it, 'cause I've got things to do. But as long as you as a community would simply rather not deal with the future in realistic terms, you are dying. And if you would rather not deal with it at all, then you, as an institution, are dead. 


Two artists are having a show something more. He gives birth at the Isis gallery in the Old to an image which registers on an Fieldhouse opening February unconscious level. When an artist 12th. It makes one wonder why an shows to the general public and artist would want someone to not to a chosen clique, he and the come and view his work. Is it an viewer meet blind. The reaction, ego trip? Does an artist paint for either said or unsaid, is the chord himself or others? He paints for shared by each. The viewer himself. He paints as he eats and comes in order to have that chord breathes -to survive. Does he struck. To have the conflicts then show his art to express his vitalized and subtlely to define opinions? If it is mere opinion and redefine himself. "You are that he wishes to express, his art with me, I am with you--are we in will be crude; comparable to the same world?" The artist's propaganda or Madison Avenue feedback is watching the public advertising. It cannot be opinion view his painting. The artist that he wants the public to see. questions, "Am I on an ego trip or lie is driven by and driving at is there something there?" 
Good afternoon 



ShuIa's 
(In Micniganr is ha-vfng a TGIF, or kick-off, or party party Friday 2:30pm-7:00pm. 
All the Budweiser you think you can drink for only $2.00 
Pretty maids to draw your beer. 
Of course, an excellent band and dancing, open bar, etc. This week's Memorial Party for Walsh & Badin All you need is an 1B year old's I.D. 


THE OBSERVER Page 7 
Two streams meet to form stream conquers the smaller with representations of limitless possibilities. A large stream and destroys its cleansing masquerade, escape and death. stream envelops a smaller tendencies. It is evidence to the belief in the stream and demands it to accept Cynthia Huff and E. M. dualities of conscious and un­its destiny. The small stream McDonough's show is opening in conscious thought and feeling. may accept its fate or it may the Isis gallery Saturday night at These considerations are most resist. The possibilities of its 9:00 pm. It is a show concerned basic to human awareness. resistance are as limitless as the streams' meeting. The small stream may form a current within the larger stream and 

Isis: artist-pub/ic
reject the larger streams ten­dencies. The small stream may unite with the larger stream but retain enough of its tendencies to colour the larger stream. Each 


dialogue
stream may cleanse or pollute 
the other. In this, size may be of no concern. The strength of the tendencies within one or the other becomes the deciding factor. A large clean stream is met by a small polluted stream. A stream polluted by the strength of wastes and chemicals. The large stream 

is helpless against this strength. It is forced to accept the pollution. The larger stream must submit to the tendencies of the smaller stream. A large mildly polluted stream is met by a small clean stream. The small stream has the strength to dissipate the pollution of the large stream. The large stream is cleansed with this dissipation. A large polluted stream meets a small clean stream. There cannot be any dissipation of the larger streams pollution. The large 



-Compliments of afriend 
fHf STROH BREWERY COMPANY, DEl ROIT, MICHIGAN 48226 

~-----­

THE Friday, February 11, 1972 
Don't torget your







Hesburgh: No tents for girls at ND 
Valentine 
(Continued from page 1) 
new addition will aproxirnately double the size of the present school, providing a sizable increase of space in the law library. · 
Although a news blackout is in effect with the present merger negotiations, Fr. Hesburgh did comment saying "First of all, I believe strongly in it." 
Fr. Hesburgh recognized a commitment to junior and senior St. Mary's students in ND majors. He also expressed dedication to the idea of co-exchange classes "no matter and financial difficulties as the what happens." two major stumbling blocks. 

The president continued to cite Optimistically, however, Fr. problems with the ad­Hesburgh said that he thinks it is ministrations of the two schools a "solvable situation." "As of 
Irving promises to co-operate in return for wife's immunity 
(c) 1!172 New York Times New York, February 10-­Clifford Irving has expressed willingness to cooperate with the 
government in the investigation of the purported autobiography of 
And a Briel Note ••• 
Junior Don White had his underwear "ripped off" by the laundry service and he wants it back. 
While many students claim that the laundry has lost their wares, this time the laundry admits it goofed. But the only compensation offered White was a pair of someone else's briefs. 
"Regardless of the ernbarassrnent," White claimed, "If the laundry doesn't respond properly, I am going to sue." 
When White returned from Christmas vacation, he placed the shorts in his laundry bag along with another pair. He noticed that only one pair was returned when he picked the package up. 
The laundry told White to wait a week because the missing goods would be returned in his next bundle, but they didn't appear. 
Within the next three weeks, White claims to have visited the laundry office no less than three times. Each time he was told that he would be given a pair of someone else's un­claimed underwear. 
"The idea doesn't really appeal to me," White said. White has contacted the Ombudsman, student govern­ment's problem solver, and SBP John Barkett with no suc­cess. He concluded his brief remarks with the claim that he is "only a poor college student." 
Dead Sea Scrolls revived in lecture 
The second lecture in the University of Notre Dame's series on the Dead Sea Scrolls with be delivered Monday <February 14) at 8 p.m. in the Memorial Library Auditorium by 
Dr.  William  H. Brownlee  of  
Claremont  Graduate  School  in  
California.  

The title of his talk, which is open to the public, is "The People of God: the Qumran Community And the Early Christian Chur­ch." 
Brownlee has been involved with the scrolls since 1947-48 when he was a visiting scholar at the American School of Oriental Research in Jerusalem and was one of the few scholars on hand when the ancient Jewish writings first carne to light. Besides translating two of the most im­portant of the scrolls, the "Manual of Discipline" and the "Commentary on Habakkuk," he has written "The Meaning of the Qumran Scrolls for the Bible," published by the Oxford University Press in 1964. 
In addition to the public lec­ture, Brownlee will lead three seminars on more specialized aspects of the Qumran com­munity. 

Notre Dame's series, inaugurated last month under sponsorship of the theology department, consists of five lectures by Christian and Jewish scholars during the spring term to commemorate the 25th an­niversary of the discovery of the scrolls near the Dead Sea. 
Howard R. Hughes in exchange for assurances that no legal action would be taken against his wife either here or in Swit­zerland, sources close to the case said. 
The sources added that one of the tasks of Robert G. Morvillo, chief of the criminal division in. the United States AttOI'ney's office, in flying Wednesday night to Zurich, Switzerland, was to determine if Swiss authorities would go along with such a deal. Attempts to reach Irving, who compiled the "autobiography," for comment were unsuccessful. 
Fr. Ted says aye to drinking bill 
by Ann McCarry 
Notre Dame's president Father Theodore Hesburgh expressed support last night for a bill passed Wednesday by the In­diana legislature that will lower the drinking age to 18. 
"Ifa guy's old enough to go out and get shot at, he's old enough to drink a beer,'' laughed Hesburgh, when asked what he thought of the bill. 
Father Hesburgh did not see any big change in student life at Notre Dame because of the change in the drinking age. He noted the University "kind of jumped the gun" on the decision. 
The bill will also lower the minimum age for entering into contracts and business agreements to 18. · 
After passing the legislature, the bill now rests with Indiana's Governor Whitcomb, awaiting signature into law or guber­natorial veto. 
Although he has "mixed emotions" on the new law, Whitcomb is expected to sign the bill. The Indiana legislators are believed ready to pass the bill over any veto. 

last night, we were still trying." 
In conclusion, the president of 20 years spoke briefly on the future of Notre Dame, and the quality ofeducation here. 
"I'm under the impression that you learn almost as much outside the classroom as you do in the classroom," said Fr. Hesburgh. He went on to define the quality of a Notre .Dame education as a combination of "high com­petence" and compassion, a good basis for a philosophy of life. "Around here we should try to develop a society of people that care." ... "Whatever we do, we should try to be special," he remarked. 
-... we were sinking faster... • 
-:.. the waves were 35 feet above us... ­


You must see RA! An astounding true -life adventure for the whole family! 
STARTS TODAY IN SOUTH BEND 
1 WEEK ONLY 
RIVER PARK 
2929 Mish. Ave. ph. 288-8488 
Times: Wkdys: 7:00, 9:00 Sat. & Sun: 1:30, 3:30, 5:30, 7:30, 9:30 
FHFI: 

Call 
The 
Posy Patch 
Flowers & Gifts 
272-6363 409 Dixieway
N. 
FEBRUARY ·9-15 
----~-···­
y. 
~1.. \G 
FREE 


DAVEY CROCKETT 
King of the Wild Frontier 

FREE 
To members and their guests 
( S tudt:Pt l.D. Required) Sat. 7-"9-ll 
KnightsOf Columbus 



NOW!




''LONG HAIR'' 
and we'll make sure your girl has flowers
Strictly Caranaby St. 
The British Shag is The new limey shag 
on Valentine's Day.
here. If you have long (LONG HAIR) is the 
Don It Ie t her o-e--;1.---e-.ft~o-u-::ot!
hair Continental's bloody sensation, as Artists can trim it for a desired, for the young bloody true Shag, as HARE SET with kitties 
the

desired, with or without only. kitties.
a 

Healthy hair is our business: • , 
"IiJVenundle" 
HAIR STYLING, LTD.~ 

SEHVING THEN .D. COMMUNITY FOR OVER 4YEAR, 
Call 259-7679 for APPOINTMENT 1321 E. McKinley Ave., Mish. (next door to Normain Pharmacy) 
Class of. '48

<Special Student Rates Every Day) 
--Phone 272-2966 
THE OMERVER. 

campus happenings 
Page 9'
Friday, February 11, 1972 



f 

The National Players of Washington, D.C., one of the nation's oldest theatrical repertory companies, will present "The Trial," an adaptation of the Frank Kafka novel, in a single performance at 8 p.m. Sunday, February 20, in O'Laughlin Auditorium of Saint Mary's College, Notre Dame, Ind. 
Arousing controversy from its first appearance, "The Trial" is the story of a man, Joseph K., accused and tried for an unnamed crime. Scholars who have analyzed it have seen nit a parable of guilt-ridden man, a clairvoyant vision of totalitarian society, or have transposed it into dramatic form, as Orson Welles did in his film by the same name. 
Appearing in the lead at S THE Saint Mary's performance will be Alan Wade, a graduate of Northwestern University who appeared in 17 roles while a member of the school's prestigious dramatic department. He received his master's degree at Catholic University of America and was awarded the Gilbert award for best performance by an actor in "Rosencrantz & Guildenstern Are Dead." 
Tickets for the Saint Mary's performance, part of the Performing Arts Series, are on sale at the O'Laughlin box office and may be reserved by calling 284-5424. 
* * * 

Ice Capades will be appearing at the University of Notre Dame's Athletic and Convocation Center from Wednesday, 
Februarythe T 16  through  Sunday, 
Student Government Office in Lafortune Center. February 20.  
hose ofi-campus seniors who do not have their nominating Ice Capades'  scouts  are  con­ 

stantly searching for new skating talent and auditions for new 
The deadline for seniors to submit their nominating forms for this year's Senior Fellow has been extended to Tuesday, February 15, due to unexpected mailing difficulties. These forms may be dropped in any campus mailbox or brought to 
forms by Monday or Tuesday should call the Student Union Academic Commission at 283-6244 between 1 and 5 p.m. on those afternoons. 
The affirmative debate team of the University of Toledo was awarded first place in the 20th annual National Debate Tour­
nament  sponsored  by  the  
University  of  Notre  
Dame February 4-6.  The  team  

defeated a Butler University of Indianapolis team by a 3-2 judge's decision. 
Members of the winning team are Robert Demars and Thomas skaters in the South Bend and Michiana area will be held Friday, February 18 at 4:00pm and immediately following theFennell. Director of forensics at performance that evening.

the Toledo school is Donald Prospective skaters must by 17Terry. The 1972 question debated to 23 years of age in order to joinwas: Resolved: That greater Ice Capades. Boys should be 5'8" controls should be imposed upon to 6'2" and girls 5'2" to 5'9".

the gathering and utilization of Seven performances of Iceinformation about U .S.citizens by Capades are scheduled --Wed­government agencies. 

nesday through Saturday nightsSouthern Illinois University at 8:00pm. and three matinees­was awarded third place in the Saturday at 2:00pm.-Sunday at tournament in a decision over a 2:00 and 6:00pm.
second team from Butler 
University. 

PLACE YOUR ORDER 
Two doors stand as evidence of Mardi Gras vandalism. The picture on the left shows dents in the door leading to the storage room from which $4,000 in bogus bills was taken. The other picture is of the Mardi Gras coat room which was broken into to gain access to the bills. 

Swintnters : 
Beat Bonnies 
enior Bar 

Support Irish wrestlers Fri. & Sat. night and get free drink with ticket stub. 
Reminder 10c Beer 7-9 Saturday 

Senior Bar 

Working with people in 
AFRICA 
is what it's all about 
Join a team of dedicated priests and brothers in the largest missionary society on the continent of Africa. The White Fathers of Africa derive their name from their tradi­tional white habit which has come to represent to Africans not only the word but the helping hand of Christ. 
SEND fOR COMPLETE ~ 
INfORMATION Fr. Joseph E. Hebert W.F. White Fathers of Africa 2020 West Morae Avenue pChicago, Illinois 60645 
NAM~-------------­
ADDR~Es~s~-----------­
CITY---------------­
STAT..._______zxp_____ 
AG,~--------------­




THE OBSERVER. Friday, February 11, 1972
Page 10 

Mike Fanning will be looking to boost his pin total to 17 this weekend as the Irish wrestlers meet Findlay and Akron U. 

Fanning 
by "Lefty" Ruscbmann 

Down in the "pits" of the Convo Center's auxiliary gym, Terry Mather's wrestlers go through their calisthenics, accompanied by rock music from the gym's record player. By the corner sits a big man, quietly going through his exercises. Mike Fanning, Notre Dame's ace heavyweight wrestler, prefers to let his record, and his coach, do the talking for him. · 
The record for the imposing 6'6", 265-pound freshman shows an impressive total of 17 wins without a defeat this season, with 15 of those triumphs coming by pins. Earlier this year, Mike eclipsed Phil Gustafson's school record for consecutive pins enroute to compiling a string of twelve straight. 
Already he is ranked by Mather as being on a par with Dick Arrington, the finest wrestler in Notre Dame history. In 1965, Arrington placed third in the national tournament and Mather holds great promise for greater things from his young star. 
Fanning, like Gustafson and 
~ Arrington before him, plays football for the Irish. Mather encourages this practice, claiming that "wrestling develops the same qualities needed to play football." As for the drain on time caused by playing two sports, Mike shrugs off the problem. "Sure, it takes a lot of time, but I like it." 
Mike's int~oduction to the mat scene came during his sophomore year at Edison High School in Tulsa, Okla. In three 
Swimming and Fencing teams at home Sat. 

Notre Dame's swimming and fencing teams will display out­standing records in front of the home fans this weekend. 
The unbeaten Irish fencing team, 8-0 following four victories last weekend, faces highly regarded Detroit and the University of Chicago at 1:30 
p.m. in the Athletic and Con­vocation Center on Saturday. Mike DeCicco's team has won 18 straight dual matches over the past two years but the last Irish setback was at Detroit, 15-12, exactly a year ago during a 21-3 campaign. 
Notre Dame's 6-2 swimming team, fresh from two victories over Oakland University and Wayne State on the road, meets St. Bonaventure Saturday at 2 
p.m. in Rockne Memorial Pool. 
Jim Kane and Ed Graham established new varsity records in the 67-46win over Wayne State. 
Kane won the 100 freestyle with a record time of 49.36 while Graham lowered his mark in the 200 individual medley with a 
2:11.29 effort. 

Hey! Do You Know That You Don't Have To Be 21 To Play Pool At 


FRANKIE'S? 
Everyday· Specials 
Ocean Perch $1.25 -1 0 oz. Rib-Eye Steak $1.5() -V2 Broasted Chicken $1.50 
Includes Tureen Soup, Salad, Bread, Butter And Coffee 
-ND 's best ever? 
{jw£fl' 
years of varsity competition, he placed second and fourth in statewide competition, which earned him an offer from NCAA mat champion Oklahoma State. But Mike really wanted to play college football, so it came down to competing offers from Notre Dame and Oklahoma. "I decided to come to Notre Dame because I liked the campus. And the football team here is the finest in the nation," Fanning explains. 
For a freshman, Mike has displayed a great deal of poise, both in dual meets and in tour­nament competition (he took first place in both the Rochester In­vitational and National Catholic tourneys.) His greatest strength is his talent for recovering after he is down, though he is shar­pening his all-around play. During meets, he nonchalantly occupies the end of the Irish bench, waiting his turn to wrestle. "I'd really rather be first to wrestle every meet," he confesses, "but I can't do anything about it." Even the transition from high school to college competition hasn't caused him much worry, although the longer college matches have been demanding. "The roughest problem is getting in condition for these matches," he says. 
In addition to wrestling, Mike hopes to land a starting assignment on the Irish defensive line, where he saw a lot of action in last fall's freshman campaign. He also hopes for a shot at the NCAA title next month against what is regarded as the toughest field of competitors in the tourney's history. 
Meanwhile, Fanning will llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll If the Notre Dame swim team can defeat St. Bonaventure Saturday, it will ensure the Irish of their first winning season since 1966-67.. 

Created with Old World Atmosphere. Specializing in German and American Foods. 
Open 10:30 a.m. to 10:30 p.m. 
Closed Sundays and Holidays 
South Bends Finest Banquet Rooms 
The Alpine & Bavarian Rooms 
attempt to keep his perfect record intact when the Irish wrestlers tangle with Findlay College Friday in the Athletic and Con­vocation Center at 7 pm and then Akron University Saturday at 7:30pm. The Irish matmen are 8­2 over all but finished a disap­pointing fifth in the National Catholic Tournament in Cleveland last weekend. 
It's Come Here; 

CHAPPED LIPS 
at Nicola's 

809 N. Michigan 
Friday & Saturday 
Feb~-11 & Feb. 12, 9:30-2:00 am $1.00 cover Support t e Youth Advocacy Program 
Buy a Budweiser -Tiffany glass filled with a 48-hour willwrick candle 6·-scents: Bayberry, Orange, lemon, Strawberry, Evergreen, Lavenda Make great gifts for Valentine's Day! Or a great set of glasses to have in your room. $2.50-1 $13.50-6 $24.00-12 On sale at Mardi Gras Carnival and in Student Govt. offices -or call 7668 
to order: Free delivery All profits go to youth advocacy­Help promote Juvenile Decency. 
Friday, February 11, 1972 THE OBSERVER Page 11 
Irish seek to bedevil Demons 

by Vic Dorr Gillispie (6-ti) is the pivot man, behind Novak, and Townsend is 
The editors of Sports and he is averaging 15 points and the second leading rebounder. 
Illustrated, in their annual five rebounds a game. Hirtzig, a "I don't really know DePaul 
college basketball issue, laid iton backcourt starter, is good for 13 that well," said Willie, "except 
the line. "DePaul will not trouble points every time out. Guard that I saw them play Marquette 
anyone," they said. Doug Bruno (6-1) and forward on TV. I do know they're a multi­
But that pre-season analysis Harry Shields (6-5) are scoring defense team, and that they like 
was not an altogether correct 6.1 and 6.5 respectively, and they to change defenses a lot as they 
one, and when the DePaul Blue round out the team's starting come down the floor. 
Demons take the floor against unit. "I can't really say that we're 
Notre Dame tomorrow afternoon 6-5 sophomore Jim Marino is going to do anything different 
(1: 10) at the Convocation Center, the sixth man, and he has against them. We're going to try they will be sporting a record that averaged 11.5 points and 3.2 to win, and we're going to try to shows they have given a good bit rebounds while appearing in all do our best. But one can never of trouble to a good number of but one of the Blue Demon's tell. We may have their defense people. games. down to aT, and we may be hot The Demons will come into DePaul's scoring average is on offense at the same time. But their game with the Irish with an slightly above that of their op­they may have our defense 8-7 mark. They are currently ponents. In rebounding, though, figured out, too. You really can 
suffering a two-game losing the Blue Demons are only never tell. 
streak, but before those last two averaging 39 a contest, and that "Losing to St. John's was quite 
outings (against Marquette and is a figure which should delight a let-down," Townsend admitted. 
South Carolina), DePaul was the Irish cagers. "I thought we should have won it. 
playing better-than-average Notre Dame's young team has I don't care what anyone says 
basketball. been frequently beaten on the about how physical they were on 
boards this year, but they have the boards---1 think we shouldThey upset the Dayton Flyers, still been able to pull in 45 caroms have won that game. I felt75-72. They fell to Marquette by a game, and that could spell the strongly about the St. John'sthe same margin as Notre Dame­difference against DePaul. game, and I feel strongly about·-nine points. They lost to Tomorrow's game will be this one."
Villanova by 11 and to St. 
televised regionally, and it will The Irish will remain at homeBonaventure by 14. And 
tomorrow afternoon Digger give the Irish a chance to even following the DePaul contest for 
out their tube record for the year. a Monday game against Bowling Phelps and the Irish cage squad 
could be in for a display of the 
ND dropped two televised games Green, and then will journey to same sort of "trouble." 
to UCLA, but won a TV encounter New York's Madison Square 
with Tulane. Garden for a showdown with theThe DePaul squad is a blend of The Irish, 4-14 on the year, will North Carolina Tarheels.
experience and youth. Coach Ray be paced by scoring (19.2) and The Irish frosh will take on theMeyer starts four juniors and a rebounding 00.1) keader Gary DePaul yearlings immediatelysophomore, but he can go to a Novak. Tom O'Mara (13.7), after tomorrow's varsity contest. 
soph-laden bench when he has to. 
Willie Townsend (9.4) and John Tip-off time for the second game Meyer has only two starters Egart (7.1) are the top scorers is 3:30.
returning from last year's 8-17 
team, but DePaul's '71 freshmen 
were 19-2---though they were 
llustllng Willie Townsend and his teammates wDI be shooting for their toppled by last season's ND 
fifth victory of the season and their rirst home court triumph since frosh, 86-73---and so far the 
Dec. li tomorrow afternoon against DePaul. second-year men have justified Meyer's confidence in them. 

ND thinclads to run
DePaul is scoring at an 


OBSERVER

average of 79.6 a game, and most 
of the firepower comes from the 
in MSU Relays
trio of AI Burke, Mike Gillispie, 
and Nick Hartzig. Burks, a 6-5, 

SPORTS 

Freshman standouts Eric season in East Lansing Saturday 185 lb. junior forward, is leading Penick and Greg Cortina will in the 49th running of thethe team in both scoring (20.0) 
receive their first major com­Michigan State Relays at Jenisonand rebounding (9.0>. 
• 
petition of the indoor track Field House. But the spotlight will also be focused on Notre Dame's
Irish sextet in vades Badgers' lair 
shuttle hurdle relay team that set :m American indoor record of 28.4 
by Jim Donaldson 

goaltending chores for the Irish. 
in the same meet a year ago.
Sports Editor 

Coach Smith· doesn't want to "This is a meet for stars but we The Dane County Memorial ~-rush Tomasoni, however, and could do well in several events," 
Coliseum in Madison, Wisconsin, will give the senior netminder an said Irish coach Alex Wilson, who is not a pleasant place to play extra day of rest by starting indicated that veteran Tom hockey -unless you're wearing sophmore Mark Kronholm McMannon will once again an­the cardinal and white colors of Friday night. Earlier in the year, chor the shuttle hurdle team. the U. of Wisconsin Badgers. It Kronholm posted a shutout McMannon, who has recorded an certainly isn't the sort of place against Colorado College in the 8.0 70 high hurdles effort this where you'd expect a slumping ACC. winter, will be joined by senior hockey team to make a turnabout The Badgers have a pair of Pat Mullaney, freshman Jack but that's just what Notre Dame excellent goalies who will Gerwe and brother Mike coach Lefty Smith hopes will probably split the weekend's McMannon. happen this weekend when his games as they did in their Penick, the Ohio high school Fighting Irish journey to previous meeting with the Irish. sprint champion last year, has Wisconsin for a two-game, four­Freshman Dick Perkins has a posted a 6.2 60 yard effort and an point series Friday and Saturday mere 2.50 goals against average outstanding 31.0 in the 300. nights. while the veteran Jim Makey, Wilson indicated that Penick will 
There are usually 7,783 rabid, who has played most of the run only in the 300 on Saturday.vocal hockey fans jammed into Badger's games because of an Cortina, with efforts of 59-8 and the "lair of the Badgers" rooting injury to Perkins, boasts a 2. 78 59-6•12 the past two weeks, will for a Wisconsin victory and the Tht> Irish hockey team will look to John CampbeU (with puck) and Ian mark. battle Michigan's Steve Adams in Badgers almost always respond. Williams (5) for scoring punch in their two game series this weekend the shot put.
Wisconsin also has plenty of
They have lost but one of 14 at Wisconsin. The McMannon brothers also
(Photo by Joe Raymond) people that can put the puck into
gamt!S on home ice this season. figure in several other events.
beat anyone else in this league," Wisconsin will try to bounce back the net. Young's 17 goals tops the
Wisconsin hasn't lost too often Mike, who missed the opening
Smith commented. "Minnesota in front of the home fans. club in that department but Gary 
away from home either. The victory over Miami (0.) with the 
proved that last weekend. They Winchester, who tallied four
Badgers lead the WCHA with a The club's leading scorer, Jim flu, will defend his triple jump
didn't look good when we beat goals two weeks ago against the
15-5 record and 38 title points, and Young, sat out the Minnesota title (48-1f.!) while Tom should
them twice a couple of weeks ago Irish, leads the Badgers in 
are 19-5 overall. series with an eye injury challenge in the high hurdles.
but they turned around last scoring with 33 points on 14 goals
Notre Dame brings a 7-11 sustained against Notre Dame Penick will receive a test from
weekend and beat Wisconsin and 19 assists. Freshman
league mark ( 11-13 overall) and a while ace frosh defenseman Bob co-world record holder Herb
twice." Talafous <29 points> and winger 1 
four-game home ice losing streak Lundeen, who has scored 10 goals Washington and frosh sensation
Tim Dool (23) are also men the
to Madison. The Badgers in­"When Wisconsin's defense has this year, sprained an ankle last Marshall Dill of Michigan State
Irish defense must watch closely. 
flicted two of those recent set­been pressured, they have been Friday and did not play Saturday while Tom McMannon will battle 

backs on the Irish two weeks ago at the ACC, beating Notre Dame twice by 5-3 margins. 
The prospects for an Irish victory don't seem bright, but coach Smith was quick to point out earlier this week, that the Badgers are going to have to work hal"d to post another sweep over the Irish. 
"It's amazing, but anyone can beaten," Smith continued. "If we do that, we'll win. But we'll have to be awfully quick, because Wisconsin backchecks as well as anyone in the WCHA." 
The Badgers were caught napping last weekend in the Twin Cities, dropping 4-2 and 7-5 decisions to the last place Min­nesota Gophers and, if a couple of key performers are healthy, 

against the Gophers. The Irish will be at full strength this weekend if high scoring wing Paul Regan's sprained ankle, suffered against UMD last week, is completely healed. Goalie Dick Tomasoni, who did not dress for the UMD series because of a concussion sustained against Wisconsin the previous weekend, appears ready to reassume the 
Leading the Notre Dame attack are Regan (24 goals, 14 assists) and John Noble, 41 points on 10 goals and 31 assists. Wingers Eddie Bumbacco and Ian Williams have both contributed 18 goals to the Irish point totals. 
The Badgers and the Irish have met 11 times in hockey, with Wisconsin winning nine of the games and one ending in a tie. 
Bob Bornkessel of Kansas and Godfrey Murray of Michigan in the hurdles. 
Southeastern Conference champion Tennessee, Kansas, Missouri, Air Force and Drake head the 24 team field on the new Tartan track. The Irish (2-1) defeated Ohio State (56-51) but lost to the Air Force (66-56) last Saturday in Columbus. 
• 
.. 
---~------~ 
Page 12 THE OBSERVER Friday, February 11, 1972 
CLASSIFIED ADS
Indian activities to be held 
~----------------------------------------------­
WANTED LOST AND FOUND 

POETRY WANTED for An~ 
Lost: Gold St. Christopher and thology. Include stamped en~ 
chain. Engraved: "Love, vclopc. Idlewild Press, 1807 E. 
Michele 12~25~71." Reward 8657. Olympic Boulevard, Los Angeles, California. 90021. 
LOST: RING. GOLD WITH 
--~--·­

BLUE STONE, BISHOP STUDENTS WANTED for small 
KEARNEY H.S. REWARD $5.00. technical' school. Curriculum 
CALL 8341. ECPD accredited. Major in 9 fields of drafting, 2 fields of Civil 
Wallet lost at Kick~off party. If and Electronics. A.S. Degree. 
found contact Bob. 
Industry recruits on our campus. 

8085 Transfers accepted February 14th 
8077 .through 21st. Institute of Drafting and Technology, Morrison, 
Lost: '72 CLASS RING AT 
Illinois, 61270. 

NATIONAL GUARD ARMORY (KICK·OFF PARTY), White Needed: Enterprising young 
Gold & Blue Stone; Name in~ individual who would like to make 
scribed on back. Reward Call 

$400 or so next fall selling Time, John 232-2725. 
Life, & Sports Illustrated. (That's 
how much I made.) Send ap. 
Found: Season Basketball Ticket. 

plications (with qualifications) to 
Call Tom 287-2731 & give

Thomas Drexler, 530 S. Carroll Evidence. 
Apt. A., South Bend, Indiana, 
46601. Must be Postmarked 2~ 12­Lost: brown crocheted hat with 
72 or earlier. Freshman or brown flower. Call 4978, 4985. 
Sophomore preferred. 
NOTICES 

lnPRIG needs petitio11ers. Call 
3827 or 3610. DISCOUNT TRAVEL. To and 
Within Europe. Leave anytime 

Wanted: Off~campus house for from NY ~Chicago. Flight Center 
next year, 6 bedrooms. If you 227 North Randall. Madison, WI 
know of any please call John 7864. 53706 (608) 263~3131. 
Models needed. $10~hr. Females. Need typing done??? Will. do 
Call 283-6811. 6~8 pm. typing for reasonable rates and on 
-----------snort notice don't waste time 
Need ride to Ohio University; pecking away ~ Call Chip at 8256.· 
Athens, Ohio. Feb. 18. 5192. 

PERSONALS ATTENTION PRE~LAW 
STUDENTS!!! LSAT REVIEW 

What will the dawn of the 14th COURSE NOW ACCEPTING 
bring? STUDENTS FOR APRIL (AND 
OTHER LSAT TESTS.) FOR 

Acquaintances, friends, pals, INFORMATION CONTACT: 
wonderfully HUMAN people and EDUCATIONAL IDEAS: 
"buddy" who made my stay KELLY FLYNN, 283-8164. 
HERE the most loving endeavor AVERAGE SCORE INCREASE 
in my life. my love to y'all 100 POINTS. 
BEEZIE 
Buses will be running to Shula's 

ATTRACTIVE MALE WISHES on Friday. They will leave from 
TO MEET PLEASING EX~ the Center for Continuing 
PERIENCED FEMALE TO Education from 2:00 pm as they 
ENGAGE IN EXTENSIVE LOVE fill. Round trip is $1.00 or 50 cents 
MAKING. WILLING TO BE one way. You can even join the 
TRAINED. COMPLETELY Bowling Club of N D if you want. 
CONFIDENTIAL. P.O. BOX 68, !That's who is sponsering the 
NO 46556. buses.) 
Happy Birthday Joe Mamma, OVERSEAS JOBS FOR from Baby Doll and Daddy~o STUDENTS. Australia, Europe, 
S. America, Africa, etc. All Notice to eligible N.D. Men: professions and occupations, $700 Need a date? Call M&M Mat. to $3,000 monthly. Expenses paid, chmaking Services Inc. at 4419. overtime, sightseeing, Free in~ 
formation Write, JOBS 

Happy (Almost) Valentine Kit, OVERSEAS, Dept. F2, Box 15071. 
we love lots of things, (pickup San Diego, Ca. 92115. 
trucks, quarter horses, bayous), 
but of all these things, we love you EUROPE THIS SUMMER. Notre 
the most. Dame credit at University of · 
Rich & Be-re-gard Vienna, Austria. Ample OP· 
portunity for tours or independent 

Dear Ann, travel. 234-6519. 
Guess who ran that ad?? I should 
know!!! Juniors ~ Sign up to have your 
OJ NAB portrait taken for the 1973 year­
book~ 2~C LaFortune. 9-6:00 daily 

I DO TRY. Sometimes I even try or call 1454. To be in the book, you 
very hard. But things get uptight. must be photographed now. 
Michael ROMA "FRIZZ-IN II" HOGAN'S 
FOR SALE BIRTHDAY FRIDAY. 1329 St. Joseph St. sempre dritto. 

Parts and Accessories tor lm~ 
ported cars. Foreign Car Parts 
AMERICA COFFEEHOUSE 

Co. 215 Dixieway North 
(flanner basement) Sat. Night~­(Roseland) 272-7187. 
Tim Glavin and Bruce Bacia plus Tom Favght. Also, an hour of

Preferred Renters ~ 4 Bedroom, 
open time~-come down and play.

newly redecorated apartment, 
Free Coffee Open 8:30. 12.

Kitchen, bath and dining 
tacit ities. $50 per month per 
VALENTINES DAY SECTION

student. 742 West Indiana. Call Ad sales from 1-4 Fri. ~Sunday
272-6665. 
IN THE FIESTA LOUNGE AT LAFORTUNE 

FOR SALE: '63 GALAXIE, 
1~ 10 Words 50 cents 
GREAT SHAPE. $250 OFFER. 
11~20 Words 100 cents 
RICK 234~6467. 
or mail to OBSERVER VALENTINE 

Graphic View II 4X5 camera with BOX ll
all the goodies. 233~9701. 
with the money. 
---·---~-~ 

Michel in X Tires~-165~380-15" with Words 1da 2da 3da 4da Sda tubes. For all VW Bugs; most 15" 1-10 .65 .95 1.15 1.35 1.55 sports & imports. Best offer 255~ ll-15 1.001.501.85 2.10 2.40 
6725. 16-20 1.30 1.95 2.15 2.55 2.95 
21-25 1.70 2.55 3.20 3.85 4.45 New STEREO SPEAKERS 26-30 2.10 3.15 3.95 4.75 5.45 combining excellent sound and 31-35 2.45 3.65 4.45 4.75 6.15 decorative looks at reasonable 36-40 2.80 4.20 5.25 6.75 7.75 prites. Call 283-8462 or come to 41-45 3.15 4.70 5.90 7.10 8.20 101 Sorin. 46-50 3.55 5.20 6.50 7.80 8.95 

by John Abowd 

The India Association of Notre Dame is sponsoring a Variety show of authentic Indian acts this Saturday night. Funds raised will be used for emergency relief of Bengali refugees now stranded in India. 
Three months of intensive preparation by thirty members of the association will be culminated on Saturday at 7:00 in O'Laughlin auditorium. The admission charge is $2.00. 
"We intend to collect funds for Bengali refugees who wish to return to Bangladesh. They need food and provisions to re­establish themselves in their homelands and to rebuild their villages," Cajetan Cordeiro, president of the organization said. 
The chemical engineering graduate student added that the Indian community has already raised $3,000 in relief funds. 
"We feel we are obligated to do our part," he added. "The people back home are paying taxes and other obligations that we don't face. This is our contribution and 
... 

we would like the rest of the ~--mmunity to share with us." 
RoGERS 


Optical 
lOGEI ATWELL • OWNEI 
The show includes: 
--Folk dances from different regions of India. A Gujerat dance representative of the west coast region will be featured. To illustrate the many cultural differences within India the group will also present a more 
lively Punjab  dance  which  is  
representative  of  the  northern  
region.  

Black Arts Day set for Sunday 
The Black Studies program of the University of Notre Dame will sponsor a Black Cultural Arts Day February 13 in the ballroom of LaFortune Student Center. The public is invited to the program of music, cultural and historical evenets between 1 and 5 p.m. 
Included in the program will be a display of photography by Brother Michael H. Peebles, Philadelphia, Pa.,; the Black Liberation Singers of the South Bend Community Liberation School; black poetry and prose readings, and the Olu Kenyetta Drummers. 
HOUISr MON • TUE5 • THU1t • FRI 9 AM 5:30PM W£0 • SAT 9 AM 12 NOON 
COMPLEI"E SI'I!CrACLI 
SERVICE ALL EYE 011.'$ ..aESCRIPTJONS HONOREe 
Cal! 
289-7809 

--Classical dances of the 
Manipuri and Odissi styles. --A Sitar recital --modern Indian guitar music --songs of Bengal. 




Citroen 
the new Citron Here's sta nd performance in the. 

iscover the comfort he hydropneuma ti uspension with its tant level ride. Discov itroen 
Specials Of 

'71 850 FIAT RACER Like new, real savings '69 CITROEN A choice of two '68 GRAND PRIX White, 2 door hard top '67 FIAT ABART.H 1300 cc ~ The real thing '69 124 SPORTS COUPE Sharp ~ An excellent buy 
llllli111 • auto/sf: 
$2148 U.S. 31 N. 
· South Bend ~ 
Phone 272-2854 








SALE 
Here are six very special offerings -there's more "in storen 
SWEATERS•••YOU SAVE V2 
Reg. $11 to $35, long & short sleeves, sleeveless in an 
excellent selection of colors, fabrics and neck styles. 
DRESS SHIRTS•••EXACTLY V2 
You'll recognize the name, long sleeve. Your favorites. 
-BODY SHIRTS•••SA VE lh NOW 
A special group of these great sport fashions 
ALL WEATHER COATS••• 
Lined and unlined styles from a special group PRJl.:~-C U '11 
SPORTS COATS... 114, lh, ¥3 OFF 
From a good selection of woven styles. Many colors, patterns. 
MEN'S SUITS•••1;4, Vz, ¥3, OFF 
A good selection of colors and sizes. Quality apparel. 
..  PAY NEXT SUMMER with no carrying charge  
..  Pay next June, July and August when it's more convenient. It's the exclusive Campus Shop Way to buy .  



Give a Valentine in the Observer. Let someone know you're thinking o~ !h~e~ •. 


