On The Inside 
water break ... page 3 young businesses ... page s 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VII No. 58 Wednesday, December 6, 1972 

Henry raps about tenure, exaJTJ.s, and an Arizona prograJTJ. 
by John Culligan Staff Reporter 
Saint Mary's College President Dr. Edward Henry spoke of a possible SMC campus in Arizona last night as he addressed a group of student in Stapleton Lounge. 
Henry revealed that he and Mr. John Hof have looked into the possiblility of acquiring property 17 miles outside of Tucson, Arizona. On that land there is a retreat house which could be used as a dorm. 40 students would be selected to spend one semester there. Henry said. They would be taught by several retired professors from the area. Near the facility there is an elementary school that needs teaching assistants and an art museum. 
A 1973 fall semester is the tentative date that Henry and Hof have set for the project's start. The cost would be the same as one semester at SMC except for travel expenses. 
Hof. who spoke with Henry, concluded that "Many possibilities are offered by this program." 
Messbarger and Tenure 
When the problem of the tenure refusal for Dr. Paul Messbarger was questioned in the informal question and answer session, Henry replied that he could not disclose the information concerning the refusal. 
The information is kept secret for the protection of the individual and the three groups who decided the issue. according to the SMC President. He added that Dr. Messbarger necessarily did not pass because he did something wrong. 
Messbarger is a professor in the SMC English Department. He was the past President of the Faculty Senate. He was refused tenure earlier this semester. 
Henry explained that it is necessary for the tenure selectors to be extremely careful about granting tenure since the individual will be serving the university up until he is age 65. Mr. Hof added that tenure was being questioned by many college ad­ministrations, including St. Mary's. 
When asked about his tenure situation, Henry commentedthat "no administration official can be granted tenure. unless he earns it teaching. I have tenure at another institution, but not here. At my own request, I have only a three year appointment as president, instead of the usual six years." 
Henry continued, "I feel that since I am the first layman to be president, they may decide that they do not like the job that I am doing. At the end of three years. they will have decided if they want a layman to remain as president or not." 
Saint Mary's Exams 
Students at the session expressed their concern over the coming exams.· They compained that many professors are giving tests on the final day of classes in addition to final exams. 
(continued on page 6) 
Marget announces 
Restrictions set on 

Hall Life Funds 
by Jim Eder 

will contribute to the betterment of hall life." 
Staff Reporter 

Student Body Treasurer Mike Marget has barred the hall presidents from using any of H-Man outlines 3 courses their Hall Life Fund allocations for hall banquets. Speaking before last night's HPC 
Supporting Marget's position, Student Body meeting. Marget accused the distribution Provost Dennis Etienne <H-manl told the 
committee of "not abiding by the provisions HPC that it has only three possible courses of set down by the Board of Commissioners." 
action to follow: <1 l to accept the presentThe Board of Commissioners, according to restriction on the funding of hall banquets;Marget. established two major restrictions <2l to recall the Board of Commissioners to c-Oncerning the distribution of the Student settle the matter; or (3) to bring their Activity Fee. First, no funds are to be ap­arguments before the University Judicial propriated for structural repairs or main­
Board. 

tenance, for these are responsibilities of the HPC Chairman Butch Ward said that a 
university. Second, no funds are to be allotted committee is presently working on a proposalfor events that would involve only individuals to bring before theStudent Life Council asking or small groups of students. 
to change the entire system of distributing the monies from the Student Activity Fee. Violation of the Second Provision Serving on this committee are Walt Spak, Ron Paja, Chris Singleton, Jim Clarke, and Kathy 
Marget considers allocating portions of the Cahill. Haqll Life Fund for hall banquets as a "I'm sick and tired of always having to beg violation of the second provision. "I can the student government for funds," said honor the amounts of money allocated by the Ward. "The average student never benefits committee to the halls," he said, "but I from half the money collected. Seven out of cannot honor the use of the funds for anything every fourteen dollars goes to clubs and but capital expenditures." organizations that only a minority of people 
This statement brought forth a barrage of belong to." objections from dissenting presidents, who argued that the purpose of the Hall Life Student Government shouldn't allocate funds Fund is to improve hall life and that hall banquets serve this function. Chris Singleton, Singleton agreed that the student govern­president of Farley and member of the ment should not have the authority to allocate distribution committee, pointed out that "by the Student Activity Fee. "Because bringing the members of the hall together, student life centers around the hall, the banquets not only improve the spirit of the people best informed about the needs of the students but also foster other events that help students are the hall presidents. The HPC to improve hall life." should be given a hand in distributing the 
Marget replied that he was not arguing Student Activity Fee." against the value of hall banquets but against The meeting opened on a less argumen­the legality of their being financed by the Hall tative note. as Ward extended Fr. David Life Fund. "Such events should be sponsored Schlaver's request for help in sponsoringby individual hall treasuries." Christmas parties for nearly 1300 un­
derprivileged children from the South Bend Jeselnick defends interpretation area. OnSunday,December 12, a party for about 
HPC Executive Coordinator Steve 800 children will be held in the Stepan Center Jeselnick asserted that the legality of the from 1 to 5:30p.m. Both volunteers to help distribution committee's actions was "really run the affair and financial contributions to a matter of interpretation. The provisions set help fund it are still needed. down by the Board of Commissioners were The Head Start Program is planning 23 not clear." parties for about 500 children at its local 
The purpose of the committee, he ex­centers on December 14 and 15, but it needs plained. was merely to determine the student coordinators to help run them. Ward amounts to be allocated, "We acted as asked his fellow presidents to volunteer their distributors not as censors. We tried to meet services. Head Start is also looking for young the needs of the students as expressed by talent (magicians, musicians, etc.) to provide their hall presidents." Jesselnick also added entertainment for the children. Anyone that the committee was unanimous in its wishing to offer a "helping hand" should call decisions and believed that "each allocation . Fr. Schlaver <1730). 

Jeselnick: We tried to meet the needs of the students as expressed by their hall presidents. 

! 
r 
p 
r 
~ ~ 
r 
r 
r 
~ 
'r 
i ' 
~ 
I 
' 
' 
--· -------­
the observer Wednesday, December 6, 1972
2 
warld briefs 
tel lll72 New York Times 
Washington--Henry A. Kissinger, President Nixon's security affairs adviser, is raising questions with North Vietnamese negotiators in Paris about intelligence reports that Hanoi intends to hide much of its army in South Vietnam in Viet­cong units after the cease-fire, well-l?laced administration officials said Tuesday. 
Washington--The United States and Cuba have agreed in principle. the state department s~id, that their propo~ed pact to curb hijackings should cover aircraft as well as sh1ps. The negotiations. conducted through the Swiss government, were described as moving "ever so smoothly." It appeared that the onlv major unresolved point is whether the accord would provide for both prosecution and extradition of hijackers or only their trial. 
Cincinnati--The United States circuit court of appeals in. Cincinnati. in a 2 to 1 decisiondelayed indefinitely the in­stallation of the airbag safety device in automobiles, yielding to the objections by automobilemanufacturers.on the g~ound that the device is potentially dangerous. The mstallabon of airbags had been ordered by the United States Department of Transportation and the National Highway Traffic Safety 
Administration. 
an campus taday 
opening of children's museum in hammes gallery. 
6: 30--meeting, sailing club. 204 eng., election banquet. 
7:00--lecture, fr. james t. burtchaell, stanford chapel. 
moreau­prep for keenan­

7: 30--lecture, "the school: a valid factor in juvenile delinquency?" dr. john feldhusen, in carroll hall, madeleva bldg. 
8: 
00--basketball, notre dame vs. valparaiso in ace. 

8: 
00--lecture, "the idea of fiction as fictitious or fictive" by merle e. brown, room 201 ar­chitecture bldg. 

8: 
00--lecture, "christian pacifism" by john howard yoder, room 120 hayes-healy. 

8: 
00--lecture, congressman john g. schmitz, "road to 1984," memorial library auditorium. 


9: 00--jazz lecture, "the mothers of invention: cross pollination," by rev. george wiskirchen in Iafortune student center. 

at nd-•mc 

•. •. or ~·'. r ·.:. Loi$ Tranter 
\;. Jordan Motors 
259-19 
For 1.1denls and faculty 
., .... . 
. .' ... .. 
J .a I l t • 
r .t 1 , • .t ,
. '~ ., .. , ' .....'. 


'Feldhusentospeak at SMC 
In the continuing lecture series "The American Scene: A Cultural Series", Saint Mary's College, Notre Dame, will present Dr. John 
F. Feldhusen of Purdue Univer­sity. West Lafayette, Indiana. Dr. Feldhusen will discuss "Is the School a Valid Factor in Juvenile Delinquency?" at 7:30 p.m. Wednesday. December 6, 1972, in Carroll Hall. Madeleva Memorial, Saint Mary's College. 
Dr. Feldhusen is the Chairman of the Educational Psychology section of Purdue University. He recently completed a ten-year study in association with other rese~rchers from Wisconsin State University. and presenlted partial results at the International Congress of Applied Psychology in Liege, Belgium. 
!lis study exposed detailed factors in the educational system which appear to contribute to delinquency. Dr. Feldhusen feels, however. that the ability to predict delinquency is of little value unless something can be done to halt the downward slide of the delinquency­oribe child. 
In addition to having been an educator since 1951, Dr. Feldhusen is a consulting editor for various publishing companies and edited The Educational Psychologist from 1966 to 1969. He has com­posed a series of radio programs 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester ex­cepr· vacations by the students of the l.'niversily of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subsc:riptions may be purchesed for $8 per semester ( 14 per year) from the Observer, r-ox Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
designed to teach creative thinking 
to fourth-grade students and a 
series of instructional programs in 
educational psychology. 
Dr. Feldhusen received his :h.D. in Educational Psychology from the University of Wisconsin. A Phil Delta Kappa and an American Psychological Association Fellow, he is also a member of the American Educational Research Association, the National Council on Measurement in Education, and the Nationa, Society for Programmed Instruction. 
Sister Maria Concepta 1\lcDennott. C.S.C., Saint Matry's College Co-ordina tor for the "American Scene: A Cultural SPries". reminds all Saint Mary's College and University of Notre Dame students that attendance at the 7::JO p.m.. Wednesday, December 6, 1972, lecture is required. 
This will be the only time at \l'hich students may obtain the final questionaire to be answered concerning this series. 
The lecture. "The School: A Valid Factor in Juvenile Delinquency?", given by Dr. John Feldhusen. will be held in Carroll llall. Madeleva Memorial, Saint 1\lary's College. 
After the lecture. each student may obtain a questionnaire from one of four rooms on the first floor of Madeleva Memorial. according to the following system: 
f<:DlJC 273  HIST :m  
A-L Hoom 242  A-L Hoom 222  
1\1-Z Hoom 244  1\1-Z Boom 224  

Because of logistic necessity and the fact that this date was given no exceptions will be made. 

says 
When it comes to pianos. we will do just about anything. , If we can't da it. we willtryto find someone who does. 
Call me now for an appointment 674-9335 


Osceola, Indiana 
'Piano Pete'' 

Quality Tuning and Repairing 

FRESHMEN! ! ! 
Freslnnen still have the opportunity to enroll in Army ROTC starting with classes conunencing on January 17th. No compression of courses is required. ;Mditionally 
ARMY ROTC Allows you to fulfill your military obligation as a Conunissioned Officer. The leadership training and experience that you receive gives you a headstart in manag1:!ment. 
ARMY ROTC Makes you eligible for scholarships which include full tuition and books plus $100 spending money per month. All ROTC cadets in the last two years receive $100 a month during the school year. 
ARMY ROTC QUalifies you for specialized training that you can take during your years under the Golden Dome. This includes flight, airborne and ranger training. 
ARMY ROTC Can grant you a draft deferment so that you are able to finish your chosen curriculum without annoying and unplanned interruptions. 
ARMY ROTC Is flE~ible. There are four, three, and Two-Year Progr<~s at Notre Dame. You can even spend a year abroad in one of the Foreign Study Programs and still be in ROTC. 
INTERESTED? Visit the Department of Military Science in the ROTC Buildin 
across from the Knute Rockne Gym. We will be glad to give you further 
details. 
..
' .
.•) ...... ,•. 

. ARMY 'ROTC. AT· NOIRE PAME 
·'•' I

.• ....~· .. '. . .~.••• ) .. : f.(. • . • • I 1.: . 
L; ______ THE MORE YOU KNOW, THE BETTER IT LOOKS 

SMC seniors study comps 

by Maria Gallagher St. Mary's Editor 
Senior Class President Debbie Carvatta has released a statement on recent developments of interest to the senior class regarding comprehensives and com­mencement. 
Citing the results from the academic questionnaire issued last spring to 500 random Saint l\'larv"s students, Carvatta noted a dicoiomy between the feelings of the students. which for the most part opposed the test and the format of the test. which the majority favored. Carvatta suggests a proposal on behalf of the seniors: an experiment in which the policy would be taken out of the hands of the college and given department jurisdiction. Carvatta feels this would be ··practically no real change." 
Each department would then have the option of giving comps Pilher for credit or no credit, providing that the comps include preparation. completion, and {'Valuation. The individual department would decide how much credit the examination would have. credit would be given on a pass-fail basis, and evaluate not onlv the student's knowledge but also receive student feedback. The department could also elect not to give comprehensives. 
The decision would be reached at 
t>ach individual department's 
meeting, presented by the student 
representative on the committee. 
The results from the study would 
then go to the Presidential Task 
Force committees in Curriculum 
Study. which is doing long and 
short range research in general 
requirements including com­
prehensives. 
Carvatta also outlined the 
progress in commencement 
preparation, including diploma 
design. speaker, and various 
eommitties. 
The 1973 diploma design has 
been submitted to Vice President 
of Academic Affairs William 
B. Hickeyby Patsy Mcintyre. It involves a new color scheme and a new interior design. Hickey said \'esterday that the decision to "accept or reject the design, which will be made by the 15-member administrative team, "is not on any immediate agenda." 
The top three candidates for commencement speakers nominated by administration, faculty, and the senior class were confirmed by the senior class on October 31. Actress Katherine Hepburn. Senator Margaret Chase 
Smith  m-Maine),  and  television  
personality  Barbara  Walters  
polled the  most votes.  Hepburn  
has already declined.  

Sen. Smith and Walters have been contacted, and their names will be presented to the Executive Board of Regents who will meet before Christmas vacation. The class officers are optimistic that a speaker will be selected before Christmas, and would appreciate any suggestions or topics for the commencement address. Car­vatta asked that these be ad­dressed to her at P.O. Box 182, or to call her at 4101. 
Graduation chairmen this year will be the class officers, Carvatta revealed. This, she said, was decided because the officers "felt it would lead to a greater working relationship rather than the selection of a single student." They will be assisted by ten co-

Campuswatermainsbreak 
A broken water main under the road east of the ND firehouse deprived Flanner and Grace halls of water for four hours Monday. The two largest residence halls were without water from 10:00 am until 2:00 pm while workmen repaired the leak. 
A power station employee first noticed water bubbling out of the ground around 8:00am. A ten inch water main which supplied all the water to Flanner and Grace had completely severed. 
"The main snapped right in two." said Brother Borromeo Malley, director of utilities. "It is a cast iron main under the road and apparently something settled and snapped it." 
Workmen began digging im-
Ca rvatta: releases senior class proposals for revising comps. 
chairmen of individual activities. Senior Mass and the Sr~Brunch will be headed by Mary Beth O'Reilly and Mary Beth Madl 0'Reilly. They will hold a planning 
meeting  before  Christmas  but  
have not yet named a  date.  Any  
suggestions  or  questions  are  
welcomed,  as  is  any help.  For  

more information, call 259-9582. Baccalaureate Mass and Brunch will be handled by Mary Fran McAuliffe and Aggie Cosimano. Volunteers or persons with ideas or questions may call4132. They also plan a meeting before Christmas but have not chosen a date. 
Housing Committee co-chairmen are Mary Weiss and Terry Trenor. Their first meeting was held yesterday, but further information can be obtained by calling 234-9622. 
Tickets, announcements, and gown arrangements will be coordinated by Mary Ginn Ptouin and Mary Friedman (4530), and they also plan a meeting sometime before Christmas. 
Cocktail Party Committee heads are Betsy Mohan and Phyllis Collelo. They will hold an organizational meeting tonight a 
7:00 in McCandless, and may be reached at 5409. 
Carvatta also advised students graduating in December who will be returning for graduation to leave their gown measurements with the Bookstore, and to leave their addresses after December with the college. 
mediately after the main was shut off at 10:00. They put a band on the broken main to permanently repair the· bread. Water service was restored when work was completed at 2:00pm. 
"This happens every winter somewhere on campus," Malley explained. "Outside of an in­convience to the students it is no major thing. I've been here 35 years and I'm not shook by it." 
Astudent from the eleventh floor of Flanner alerted Fr. Maurice Amen, Flanner's rector, to· the water pressure problem early Monday morning. 
"It happened at a weird time of the morning," Amen said. "But most students just knew something was wrong." Amen put signs near Flanner's elevators asking students not to use water. \ 
Pressure first began to fall just after 8:00 on Monday morning. This is apparently when the main broke although the exact time cannot be determined. The halls did have a reserve of hot water during the time the water main was shut off. 
Student Government acted quickly with a proposal to ease the suffering of the affected residents. Jim Clarks, head of Student Government Research and Development, who lives in Grace, suggested that portable restrooms be set up around Grace and Flanner during the repair work. No action was taken on his suggestion. 
TAKE HOME THE GIFT THAT IS EVER RETURNED 
Our Beer Special Has Expanded PABST· FALSTAFF HI·BRAU 
ONLY 5 N.D. FOOTBALL PLAYERS BOTTLES LEFT 
This is definitely a collectors item I 
White Tavern Gin only $3.73 a fifth 
7 Crown $5. 15 a fifth 
MARIACHI· GOLD TEQUILA in stock 
The Adult soft drink and versatile mixer 6 pack only $ J. 13 

Get your GO N.D. KICK NEBRASKA'S A·· shirts $3.50·4.00 


BUY DIRECT FROM 


·I 
1 
1 
1 
~ 
1 
l 1 
, ~ 
,
, 
,1 
, 
1
,
, 


Logan Center gamechange· 
Logan Center volunteers: the 
hockey game scheduled for this 
Friday evening has been changed 
to Saturday evening. 
The Saturday recreation program will be held as usual from !l-ll::lO am. 
Those interested in attending the hockey game Saturday evening will meet in Logan Center gym at (i::lo PM Saturday. 
ANNOUNCES YOUTH CARD NIGHTS 
Friday, Dec 8. 
5:00-6:30 in South 
Dining Hall 
Monday, Dec.ll 
5:00-6:30 in North 
Dining Hall 
I 
Get a free album of your choice for trading in a youth card from another Airline. or lor buying a ._new one. · 
Enroll Now For January Classes, Phone Collect 317/636-1501 Or Mail Coupon Below 
*Computer Programming *Data Processing *Management Accounting *Electronic Accounting Machines *Medical or Dental Assistant *Executive Secretary 

We teach young men and women skills that are io great demand by employers -in fast-growing fields where salaries are excellent and lifetime career and pro­motion opportunities are bright. We prepare you in courses that take LESS THAN A YEAR. We provide nation-wide FREE JOB PLACEMENT assistance for our graduates. We can help you finance your skill train­ing education. As an ac­credited business college, we are a qualified institution under the Federally Insured Student Loan Program. 
Accredited by the Indiana Pri,ate School Accrediting Commission (0080) 




liiiti'klfltil?tfiiia 


r-INCIANA COLLEGE-­
OF BUSINESS AND TECHNOLOGY 
107 N. Pennsylvania St., Indianapolis, Ind. 46204 Please send me complete information about _______ 
The College With The 

NAME ..•...•••.•••••••••••••••••••••••••••.•......... 
Proven Record Of 

ADDRESS •.•••••••••••••••••••••••.•••••••••. ·........ . 
Training and Placing 

CITY..........•...•.....•......•. ZIP............... . 
Its Graduates t 
PHONE........................... AGE ......•.•....•.• : 
~--------------------~--------------------------------------------~ 

baker 
The house of more money 
(c) 1972 New York Times "Give me some more money right away," waiting when you get down to the pentagon does your heart good to see all the hair
the Navy will say. 

next morning. that's still being cut down there, too. The 
Like any thoughtful tenant turning over a And you'll say, "Nonsense! No branch of Sitting right there in your office will be the Marine Corps. I mean; not Miami Beach. If summer cottage to a friend, Melvin Laird the military needs more money at this time Air Force. madder than a wet hen. What the the price of barbering ever goes up, the has probably left a chatty note for Eelliot of night." Air Force wants to know is why you gave the !\Iarine Corps will need more money than Hichardson on the kitchen table at the And the Navy will say, "If you don't get Navy and the Army during the night the 
the Air Force. 
Pentagon. It probably reads as follows: the money over here right away, there is same amount of more money you gave the I'm sorry if this note sounds like one long
Dear Elliot: Welcome to bide-a-wee-by­going to be a bad leak, and Congress is going 
Air Force at dinner time. whine abo.ut more money, Elliot, because the-holocaust. At first glance it may look to find out that the Air Force got more It will point out that the high price of Air there's more to the pentagon than that.like a nightmare. but believe me, you can money at dinner time but the Navy couldn't hardware the Air Force
Force means There are moments of high adventure thatlearn to live with it. The trick is not to look at have any." 
naturally needs more money than the Navy will remind you of boyhood vacation nightsthe bills too often and eat plenty of aspirin. Hit comes to this. the best thing is to give and the Army. The best thing, Elliot, is go on Cape Cod.
One of the biggest problems here is the Air the Navy more money right away. All you give the Air Force more money right there For example. the Air Force sometimes
l<'orce. It has an annoying habit of calling up do is call up the Treasury and tell the girl at on the spot, and tell your secretary that if follows my car until I stop for a light, andwhen vou are in the middle of dinner and the switchboard that you are the Secretary the Army and\ Navy call she is to advise 
then jumps in with me and demands moreasking for more money. Whatever you do, of Defense and want to know how to get them that you have taken a truck over to the money right away. Just the other night Idon't let the Air Force have any more some more money to the Navy right away, Bureau of Printing and Engraving for a load gave the Air Force the scare of its life when money until you go to the office next mor­and she will take care of it for you. of new money and can't be reached for the it jumped into the car. cried "Give me morening. While you are at it, you might just as well rest of the month. 
money at once or America is doomed!"
If you do. I'll tell you what's going to have her get the Army some more money For a really pleasant escape, drop in on and found itself face to face with Presidenthappen. Just about the time you have settled too. or you are going to be waked up again at the Marine Corps sometime. It takes so little Nixon.
intoa deep sleep. the phone is going to ring. -1 a.m.. and you don't want that to happen money to make the Marine Corps happy that 
It wasn't actually the President,
It will be the Navy. because there will be a real headache it's cheaper than a week in Miami Beach. It naturally. It was just wearing a
me President Nixon rubber fright mask, but the Air Force didn't wait to investigate. In fact,

restan 
it didn't telephone me at home demanding 
more money for the next two nights. 
So. you see. Elliot, there's a lot of good 
harmless fun to be had here in addition to 
the solid patriotic pleasure that comes from



Toynbeecomments on the future 
knowing you are doing a big job for humanity. Best of luck. 
(c) 1972 New York Times thinks. is a good thing. 
lie will not see this reformation, he says, When he talks about the living generations but he believes in the regeneration of (signed> Mel .. London--The end of the year is a time for in the western countries, Toynbee sounds nations. if their leaders will appeal to thesumming up and looking forward, and since not only doubtful but sad. He welcomes the ideals of the people and not only to their P.S. Ifone of the services backs you into a Arnold Toynbee. the British historian, has movement toward European unity, with pocketbooks. Meanwhile, he takes a long corner sometime demanding more moneybeen keeping book on the human race for Rritain a part of it. Nationalism is still a view. even or his own life. He is still working before it will leave the office, I always keep most of his 83 years, it seemed reasonable to very strong force in the world, he says, and on a book on the decline of Byzantium, a billion or two hidden under the falselook him up in St. Jame's Square for a most of the -people in the western European which he says he first planned in 1910. bottom in the trash can.
personal judgment about where we all now countries don't like this troubling and stand. complicated movement toward federation. The old gentleman is a little wispy now, all But. he observes, unification in Europe 
wickt~r
white hair and wonderful bushy eyebrows, will go on. Even weak federal experiments and bright eager eyes, but while he talks like the early American confederacy of ruefully about the human family, he thinks, separate states have a way of drawing like a loving but disappointed schoolmaster, power to the center. and this, he thinks, will 

Scht1ltz outranks Cabinet
that maybe the next generation or two may happen in Europe--maybe not as close a~d 
have a chance. unified as in theUnitedStates or the Sovret 
ln the last quarter of this century, or the \.lnion. but in the end a strong centralized (c) Hl72 New York Times ternational and domestic economic matters­first quarter in the next--he thinks in cen­independent European federal union -which touches just about everything.turies and continents--he foresees, not nonetheless. New York--George P. Shultz has been Once again. therefore. and although much 
another world war, but a great struggle Tovnbee doesn't like what he sees in the almost from its beginnings one of the most will depend upon the actual practice of this 
among the advanced industrial nations for western world today. There is, he thinks, an able and respected men in the Nixon ad­new arrangement Nixon seems to have the limited natural resources of an over­obvious decline in common honesty. an ministration. but it is still somewhat sur­moved to consolidate his administration's populated world. absence of common purpose. He has to lock prising to see him so clearly designated as aetivities in the White House. Ostensibly, of 
He sees progress toward cooperation his doors at night, and even check his bank first among the equals in the President's eourse. the creation of the Council on E­among the nations, and toward control of statements for possible fraud. There is little second-term cabinet. eonomic Policy spread economic policy­human fertility. but thinks both must go pride in work. The modern unions are as Traditionally. and by protocol, the making among cabinet departments who much faster if the nations are to avoid selfish as the old robber baron owners of the Secretary of State has been considered the might not otherwise be formally involved-­disaster. past. Material success and the gross ranking member of the Cabinet: sometimes Tmnsportation for example. 
He is rather pleased with the recent national product a.re now the aims of the because of public fame of political power or On the other hand. the appointment of trends in Germany and the Soviet Union .. peoples and governments of the western personal relations some other cabinet of­Shultz to his new posts .suggests clearly The Germans. he says, may have come to nations. but even in material terms, this is ficer may. in fact. be no. l--as Robert F. that the council will not be so much a terms with history, and seem now to have not good enough to complete effectively in Kennedy wa!i in his brother's ad­l'abinet group as another arm of the White got beyond the dreams of conquest, and the the coming age. ministra.tion and John B. Connally may House staff. . · · Otherwise, there course of revenge. As a person. Toynbee says he does not have been in the first Nixon administration. would have been no need to designate Shultz 
The Russians have changed too, he thinks, believe in orthodox religion, but as a Rut it is highly unusual for any cabinet asanassistant to the President. not much but some. Ever since Peter the historian. he thinks nations rise or fall in officer to be deliberately elevated by the The likelihood is also great that the Great. they have vowed to catch up with the relation to the moral unity of the family and president into a public role that gives him workings of economic 
West.. but somehow. they have always bound the moral purpose of the state, and he sees dear· primacy over the other secretaries. policy will be less open to Congressional and 
forward and then either get tangled in their in the West a decline in both. Schultz is not only to be Secretary of the public scrutiny than they have been. Ob­
own contradictions and bureaucracy, or "go In this regard. he is outspokenly disap­Treasury; he is to be "assistant to the viously the more centralized the decision­to sleep." and find themselves behind the pointed in the United States. It was, he says, president"; and he is also to be chaiman of 
making and the debate that leads tothe New Jerusalem, the great center of both 
West again. the New Council on Economic Policy. This decision. the more closely held can be the Now. Toynbee believes, there is at least a power and idealism, but now, particularly gives him White House staff as well ·as detail: and Shultz willbe able as an assistant 
temporary change in Moscow. They seem since the war in Vietnam, it seems very cabinet status. and the council chair­to the President to claim executive im­
to be considering the possiblity that they much like the other imperial powers, more manship gives him pre-eminence over its munity from testifying to Congress <which 
have more to gain in the world of <:omputers. interested in its power than in its ideals. members--primarily the Secretaries of raises the question whether the Democratic 
trade and modern technology by Still. he says he has his consolation. Some Labor. Commerce. Transportation, Congress might not at some point pay off a 
cooperating with the advanced industrial of the young are rejecting the materialistic Agriculture and state <half the Cabinet) not score against assistant to the President 
nations than by opposing them in the world goal of life. and turning to simpler ways, to mention the' director of the Office of Shultz by cracking down on Treasuryof ideology and politics. and approaching the old and the sick with Management and Budget and the Cost of 
Secretary Shultz. l 
This will be a slow process, Toynbee compassion. Some families, he observes, Living Council. thinks. for the Russians are suspicious and particularly the Jews, are holding together, Schultz modestly denied that he would be 
What seems to emerge from the new
have good historical reasons for being so, and their strength, he predicts, will in­an "economic czar" but even he was forced 
appointments is a symmetricalhut they are concerned about the emergence crease. but on the whole he seems to concede that his new responsibilities arrangement in which, directly under theof China in the east and the envious glances pessimistic about the West, and hopes, not would be "similar" to those of Henry President. there is a National Securityof CommunistEastern Europeat the prop­for a revival of orthodox faith, but for an Kissinger, the assistant to the president for Council headed by Kissinger, a Domesticserous West.. so they are reaching out to ethical reformation that will come out of the National Securilty Affairs. At first glance, in 
Germany. Japan and the United States for spiritual needs of the contemporary western fact. they appear somewhat broader Council headed by John Ehrlichman, and a 
Council on Economic Policy run by Shultztechnological help and trade, and this, he world. because the jurisdiction over both in­
<with the ineluctable H.R. Haldeman all around. floating like a butterfly and stinging 

~arr·y trudeau 
like a bee>. 
~ 
HcYl .t:SMevv RICe SOUP 7JieRE-:S ONtY ONE tii!JY REFIJ6Ec lfJHD nc:t::~.u::e? COOI\5 RICE 
rc;.V~A~C-• • SOUP UIIE T1111r,l 
I 

The real question about all this may be not so much whether it works, but whether the business of the country can be so neatly 
packaged. Who will coordinate all thes~ coordinators? 

va~ 
All/


/10rt. 

Defense, for only one example, clearly cuts across all three coundls. So might, say. transportation policy. , Some other important matters may involve only two of Nixon's pigion-holes. Kissinger's foreign policy problems can rarely be separated entirely from George Shultz's economic considerations. WhiCh 'is ·a·nother reason why none of this super-organization seems likely to decentralize White House powers, as Nixon said he wanted to do. 

Wednesday, December 6, 1972 the observer 
5 

young businesses making it in south bend 

daniel wesolowski 
In October of 1971, Pandora's Bookstore opened to serve the Notre Dame, IUSB, and South Bend community. Despite a con­tinually changing personnel, a shaky financial situation, and an extremely nexible structure. Pandora's has survived its first year in business and recently commemmorated this formidable achievement with their first anniversary sale. 
Pandora's began as a co-op business run by five people to help with the rent, bills, and living expenses at the house they were living in. All five people were to share in the decision making, ordering, and ·main­tenance of the store. There would be no 'boss' or leader. it would be a conglomerate pooling of resources in which everyone had a say. The idea was to serve the community through such things as used-book trade-ins and sales. With an initial investment of only $2,000. the five friends' scoured Salvation Army and Goodwill stores, bought used books from friends and strangers, and pounced upon book collections being discarded in order to acquire sufficient initial stock. Planks and cinder blocks \y'ere used to build shelves, hard work was used to modify the interior of what was once a gas station, and with crossed fingers and a few second thoughts, Pandora's opened the 'lid' to its box. 
The days of driving around for books has long passed as Pandora's now brims with paperback-new and used, magazines and nespapers df every possible description. Overhead book racks line the walls, shelves protrude everywhere and a second floor has been added to cram more in. The ac­cumulation and categorization of so many printed pages in such a small area is truly a cosrn ic achievement. Either insignificance or daustrophobia is experienced facing the mountains of good, bad, or mediocre books, papers. and magazine.~>. 
A titanic explosion in stock was not the 
sole ehante. however. 
Weaving in and out of traffic in Steve 
Haymond's compact car, other areas come 
to light. "We soon discovered you couldn't 
have five people making decisions. Even­
tually. someone must give a definite yes or 
no. someone must be responsible for 
signing the checks." He shifts gears and 
swings around the corner. his tangled black 
hair sprouting in all directions like elec­
trified snakes. "and that responsibliity 
more or less evovled on my shoulders. 
Steve. a 1970 Notre Dame graduate is one 
of the original five, and is presently the 'boss' in the loosest sense of the word. He doesn't make decisions without first con­sulting the others, but necessity has driven him to the position of quasi-leadership. Of the original five, only he and Kay Monica remain. the others having left due to marriage. school. loss of interest, or financial difficulties. However, as people leave. others take their place, so that presently the Pandora Staff numbers seven. 
Steve jams a quick turn and squints into the sun. "Let's see, now there's Dave, l.t>rov. Barno." He ticks off the names on his fingers. "Joan, me Barbie, and Kay." The Pandora staff is like a family continually renewing itself with new faces as the old ones move on. 
IIe slows for a red light. "The original five all worked free for the first months, but now \\·e have payrolls, schedules, minimum \\'ages. and everything else. The original situation just couldn't last. There are realities you just have to face." 
However. even with the onset of these 'realities', the original concept of Pandora's as a community service has remained. All seven partners try hard not to turn it into a money-oriented business. They emphasize aiding the customer, and not just taking his money. This is the reasoning behind the 'trade-in' service they offer on used books. It's a headache and inconvenice for them, but it provides the student with an outlet for old paperbacks other than the garbage. The · same theory applies to their special order service. Although they frequently get 'burned.' Pandora's will make every effort to get any existing book or magazine as soon as possible. This involves long distance phone calls, special order forms, and generally, more headaches. 
Kay Monica, a former teacher, says 
"Special orders are a hassle because people 
order a lot of books and then never pick 
them up." She motions to a huge pile of 
books behind the counter. "But it's a service 
people appreciate. so I guess it's worth it." 
These consumer services do not aid the 
business financially because many used 
books are never resold, and frequently the 
full retail price must be paid when ordering 
a single book. This simply means Pandora's 
does not turn much profit. All seven part­
ners work on a part-time basis only, and 
usually have other jobs to supplement their 
finances. The lack of profit is one reason 
\\'hy so many of the ,-family' leave. Says 
Steve. "There's not enough money here for 
three or four people to subsist on." Since the 
Pandorians seem contented with their meager fare. and not overly concerned with ·making it'. problems naturally arise with the book publishers and distributors. Un­fortunately. the companies Pandora's deals \\'ith are not so 'cruisy' or flexible, they demand immediate payment and have strict credit rules. Often, ideals clash, small goes against big, culture against 'counter­culture· ,m and things can be tight for awhile: but Pandora's has somehow managed to survive. Steve sums it up when he says. "We don't see dollar signs when people walk in the door. We want the customer to feel like he's part of the operation." 

The future of Pandora's rests in the hands of seven people now. The departure of any one or two people will not spell its downfall, 

part two 

and neither will the fact that it produces relatively little profit. 
These businesses-The Crypt, Jennifer's, Stitch. and iPandora's Books:-might be ealled faddish. or passing, or unrealistic, but there's more to it than that. If they seem to be going against the 'system', it is not out of revolt. for th<).t is negative. They are doing something positive-running businesses the way they believe is best. Their future is unpredictable and their success cannot be measured by the 'system's' guidelines. Yet anyone who talks \\'ith John Mateja, Susan Stein, Diane Nelson. Mary Hardy, and Steve Raymond cannot help but feel they deserve credit for courage. 

two by kevin g. quinn 
viet nom (my delta) 
in mv viet nam there are no mortars 110 rockets or grenades 110 bombs or bullets. only lush majestic hills rushing tumbling to the sea and crystal emerald water with old stone mansions rising up from the valleys 
in mv viet nam there are cities not unlike Memphis or those in the mississippi delta region. my many flat farms are similar to those of illinois or iowa 
my thousands of miles of dirt roads are of red clay like those in georgia. my densely wooded areas are reflective of the 
, peaked places of pennsylvania mymany jagged xcliffs are here colorado and there new hampshire 
m~' villages are so closely packed together that one recalls the levittowns in suburbia. 
my rivers are as winding as the rivers of 
southern ohio. my people are short of stance but large of heart for ours is a beautiful and someday a free, free land. 
if people could 

if people could see that everyone is human. if people could 
feel charity instead of bitterness. 
if people could exchange 
ideas instead of barbs. 
if people knew of god's 
infinite love. we could all live 
in a peaceful world. 
-
-




SHIRT CLEARANCE 
values to $13 
$497 2 for $9 
Many sport styles included from our regular stocks ... zipper fronts, Wallace Berrys and more in a wide choice of colors and patterns. Long and short sleeves. Save now before Christmas. 
Shoe Clearance Boots included, values to $21.95 $9.90 to $15.90 
PAY NEXT Sl,IMMER 
Pay one third in June, one third in July, one third in August with no service or carrying charge. 
ON TiiE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAME



L-------------------------------------------------------------------------­


, Calender changes possible
• Henry views 4-1-4 system
r 
(continued from page 1)
~ 
The SMC president commented that there might be some pressure applied to a professor who has no choice but to give his exam on the final day because of students wanting to leave early. 
A student noted that the president of another college called a day off sometimes before exams as a surprise and it enabled the 
~-­
-
Henry: No administration official can be granted tenure unless he earns it teaching. 
SMC Econ department establishes lecture series 
students to be relieved of the pressure of pre-exam period. Henry countered that it was a 
good idea. but hinted that some faculty members might not like haveing a lecture canceled for such a reason. 
A 4-1-4 calendar system is being studied right now by the SMC A d m i n i s t r a t i o n ' H en r y acknowledged. "As for now, 

The Department of Economics and Rusiness. Saint Mary's <'ollege, Notre Dame, has t>stablished an "Executive in Bt>sidence" lecture series. The purpose of this series is to expose the Saint Mary's College student to \'arious careers. and to examine I he potential role for women within these fields. 
The series is planned to include four-six lectures per academic ~·ear. Each lecture will bring an t>stablished business notable to the Saint Mary's College Campus. 
!<'or the remainder of the 1972-73 Sl'hool vear. the series will include four speakers. The first guest will hl· Ms. Sully Lowe. Political News Bt>porter for WSBT-TV, South Iknd. Indiana. Her lectu:-e will be 
Jazz session to discuss Zappa and the Mother's 
Tlw dPpths of Frank Zappa and thP !\!others of Invention will be discussed at this week's "Jazz at Nine" session. Zappa and his 1\lothers have established a solid n•putation for good or bad in the field of eon temporary music; aecpptPd as genius or depraved \'illagc idiot. they leave no one lll'Utral. 
Bepresentative exerpts from the large body of recorded works by the Mothers of Invention will illustrate the discussion by the HPv. GPorge Wiskirchen, C.S.C.. 
"Zappa is one of the most significant composers in con­ll'mporary American music surpasing just about everyone in lTPativity. He may be unpopular 
~~~~~ 
~ Snowmobiles 
nt Beauty pagea ~o(\\() ~e(\
(;C) "'JD Jazz Band · rts Santa Claus (children's photo available) See it all at the: 
-


MICHIANA SNOW SHOW 
Friday December 8 5-10 pm 
~ ~ Saturday December 9 10 am-10 pm 
I Sunday December 10 10 am-10 pm
l 
Admissions; Adult $1.50
I ACC 
Students $1.00 Under 12 $.50 
at i::lo p.m .. Thursday, December 
i. 1972, in Stapleton Lounge, l.t>M<ms Hall, Saint Mary's College. 
Lowe's topic "News Reporting from a Woman's View" will t>xamihe her personal experiences in a male-dominated field, as well as the technical aspects of news writing and reporting. 

Lowe is a graduate of Michigan State University in Journalism and Political Science. She has worked for the, past seven years as a newspaper and television political reporter. Her most recent assignmeht for WSBT-TV is to cover the Indiana General Assembly during its legislative session from January through 1\larch. 1973. 
lJUI lle can't be ignored with his 
fn•shness. honesty and genius.", 
\\'iskirchen said. 
The discussion covering "Uncle Meat." "Weasels Ripped My Flesh." "llot Rats," "Chunga's Hevenge," "Waka-Jawaka" and "The (irand Wazoo" is open to all 

students and faC'ulty interested in contemporary music in the Fiesta Lounge of the Student Center at \1:00 p.m. on Wednesday, Dl•cember lith. There is no ad­mission charge. 
The final "Jazz at Nine" presentation of the semester will he a concert by the Notre Dame .Jazz Band in the main lounge of the Student Center on Wednesday, DPcember 13th at 9:00 p.m., 
d~~ 
\'\ "Sr~ ~\~ lE S Skiin J.tows 9 Reso 

because of the co-ex program with ND. there would be a difficulty in changing it <the concurrent ND and SMC academic calendars). However. the possibility of a 4+4 system is being studied for certain students." llof added that the 4-1-4 system would make the SMC education "more personalized." 
The system establishes two foutr 
month semesters with a one month period in the interim. The one 'month period would be used to 
pursue one subject only. 
Freshman in the audienc:e 
complained about registration. 
The said that they were not getting 
the courses that they wanted and 
had signed up for. Other courses 
which were required for them 
elosed out already, they further 
noted. 

Henry acknowledged! thatSMC :is limited because of the lack of professors in some courses. But he said that the administration iis introducing more diversity and looking into a block system of requirements. In that system, you would have a requirement and within that requirement you would have a choice of courses. 
The diversity that SMC is ad­ding. Henry claimed. will come from new relations with schoolts such as IUSB and Va~paraiso. 
IIHIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIUIIIR 
Night Editor: Jack Frischkorn Ass't Night Editor: Sue Prewdergast Layout: Albert D'Antonio Sports Night Edit~'r: Jim Donaldson T'ypists: Mary RomE~r. Howard Halle, David Rust. Steve Roper Comp Operator: F. Bulleto Night Controller: Rob Barringer 




SENIORS 
Uncer1tain of your future? 
Opportunities in 
Teaching Social Work Drug Counseling Other Areas: 
Working with people •
1n the United States Cllnd foreign countries 
I 
Talk with re~cent N.D. grads now in the 
Marist Brothers Lay Volunteer Program 
Times: Thurs. nite 7:30 Fri afternoon 4:00 
Ballroom of LaFortune 
CHRISTMAS BUSES 
Circle -O'Hare 
Leave 12/19 -20 21 1:30 pm Return 1/15 8:00 & 10:00 pm 
Sign -ups at travel bureau-Badin H~ll I 
Have a cool day 
::.=.=======--.~.. --.. . 
ND/SMC THEATRE PRESENTS EUGENE IONESCO'S 


THE KILLER 
Dec. 8, 9, and 10 at 8:30 p.m. Washington Hall All seats $1.00 Washington Hall Box Office open 4:00-6:00 daily Reservations 283-7054 (not included in season 
ubscription) 

Christmas Gift Certificates Beginners & Intermediates Our SpecialtyComplete Cross-Country & Downhill Great pre-season packagesBindings mounted FREE 
Mon.-Fri. Sat. Sun. 
SHOP HOURS 12_9 9-9 12-6 
Next to PARTY SHOPPES in Roseland 2Z2-3845 

Viet press criticizes u.s. 
by Tillman Durbin Vietnam will take in the resumed 
(c) 1972 New York Times negotia lions. The Nhan Dan editorial was supported by a statement from the 
Hong Kong, Dec. 3--Nhan Dan, Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the official press organ of the Hanoi again denoucning recent Notre Vietnam government, U.S. war actions in Vietnam and warned in an editorial today that affirming the Vietnamese Com­any attempt by the United States to munist determination to fight on revise the proposed peace with Allied forces in Laos and 
agreement would mean that the real Cambodia "to drive the U.S. im­
U.S. intention is to continue the perialist aggressors out of the Vietnam War. Indochinese peninsula." 
Coming the day before The editorial and the foreign .negotiations between Henry A ministry statement were Kissinger. security adviser to monitored here in radio broadcasts President Nixon, and Nguyen Huu from Hanoi. Tho. Hanoi's representative, were The Nhan Dan editorial said that due to resume in Paris, the paper's if the U.S. sought to revise the declaration seemed designed to Vietnam peace agreements "then emphasize the tough stand North its real intention would be nothing 
Kovatch plans to increase SMC security personnel 
By Mary Janca Staff Reporter 
An increase in personnel to man the Saint Mary's Security office phone throughout the night and floodlighting of the South Path are among the innovations planned for second semester, according to Anthony Kovatch, new head of St. Mary's Security. 
Floodlighting of the south side of the main drive, used primarily by bicycle riders, "should be done after the first of the year," stated Kovatch. However, he added,. "there is a question of finances," and the issue "will come in the next budget." 
Kovatch also discussed the need for staff expansion, saying, "We have a full crew of nine now, but we need someone, either grad students or retirees, to man the phone in two shifts--from 6:00p.m. until midnight. and from midnight until 6:00 a.m." 
"Our main objective," he ex­plained, "is to get the phones under our jurisdiction only." Thus, Kovatch intends to develop St. Mary's own dispatch system. 
Currently. any call to the SMC 
security office after 6 p.m. is 
directed to the Notre Dame 
Security. They in turn, relay any 
Drive planned lor Wilkes-Barre 
A book drive for Wilkes-Barres i 
College, whose library was 
destroyed during the recent floods 
in Pennsylvania, is being con­
ducted now through December 18 
and following Christmas break. 
Arnold Air and Angel Flight, 
service organizations on the St. 
Mary's and Notre Dame cam­
puses. is sponsoring the project for 
the university and community. 
Books are needed in the areas of 
Science, English, Ma tht and others. 
Any types of periodicals, and 
research books, will be of great 
value. Paperbacks are ac­
ceptable. 
Drop off points at SMC are: 117 
Holy Cross Hall, and 417 Le Mans 
Hall. ND drop bookds off at: 230: 
Holy Crooss Hall;202 Howard 
lla\\:318 Pangborn Hall; Campus 
Ministry in library lobby; and La 
J<'ortune lobby. 
~BOAC'l 
DESTINATION: 
EUROPE! 
LOWEST RATES TO ALL E U ROPE AN · CITES! 
DAILY FLIGHTS FROM 7 U.S. CI'T'tES·. 
CALL CLARK 
283-8810 FOR DETAILS 
information back to St. Mary's patrol through the car radio or walkie-talkies. If someone manned our phone, Kovatclr' asserted. time could be saved. 
Security also plans to initiate a bicycle registration program this spring, continued Kovatch., This year. he added, "only two bicycles were reported lost." 
As a result of open lobbies, Kovatch stated, "We've stepped up patrols, and are chec}dng for open doors," but remarked that "no 
really serious incidents" -have occurred. However, he stressed ' that "open lobbies will be a success if both the St Mary's and Notre Dame students observe the rules that go along with Open Lobbies." 
Another innovation is the change of the bus route. "For security and safety reasons," explained Kovatch. "buses were re-routed to stop at each dorm. This keeps the girls from having to walk clear across campus." 
Next semester, Kovatch also hopes to purchase a new patrol car. 
other than to scrap all the com­mitments already made in order to prolong its war of aggression in Vietnam and Indochina." 
The paper said the U.S. would then be held responsible "in the eyes of the world people and the American people" for twice wrecking the chance of restoring peace in Vietnam." 
Nhan Dan said the first time the tl.S. blocked prospects for peace in Vietnam was four years ago when the U.S. ceased the bombing of Notre Vietnam and agreed to take part in a four-party conference in Paris. · The daily stated the Nixon ad­ministration was responsible for then dashing "the budding hope of progressive mankind" and sub­sequently embarked on the Vietnamization program in an effort to impost U.S. neo­colonialist rule on Vietnam. 
Neither the Nhan Dan editorial nor the foreign office statement contained anything new, but their timing obviously indicated the messages were directed at the upcoming Paris talks. 
Kritzek receives medieval rites 
A medieval pontifical rite which dates back to the crusades will be enacted Thursday (December 7) in Sacred Heart Church at 1:45 p.m. 
Bishop Joseph R. Crowley, auxiliary of Fort Wayne-South Bend will officiate at the ceremony, which includes the imposition of the cross, stations, and the blessing of the sword. 
The cross and the sword will be 
received by Dr. James Kritzeck, 
professor of history and a Knight of 
the Holy Sepulchre. Founded in 
the 12th century as a military 
order. the Order of the Holy 
Sepulchre is now a papal honor, 
and Kritzeck was invested in 1969. 
The ancient religious rite is 
being enacted for the benefit of 
Kritzeck's mediaeval history 
class. but the public is welcome. 


Different Cultures-Strange Food-Tough Work-Long Hours-No Pay-Except, What God Gives You. 
For information on our missionary life, write 
FATHER TOM STREVELER, SVD DIVINE WORD COLLEGE DEPT. E95 . . EPWORTH, IOWA 52045 
1

. ' ' 0 I t I I , ~ , , • 
· Include age, education, interest, address, etc. 
'.
I t 


DIVINE WORD MISSIONARIES 

7 
Blocks From No. ween Edison 
Campus Phone 272-4484
Ironwood 


CLASSIFIED RDS 
THURSDAY AND FRIDAY ARE THE LAST 2 DAYS FOR CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 

Need riders to Albany. Leaving Dec. 20 · Also, need roommate for off-campus 2nd semester. Call Kevin 232-2146. 
Wanted: typing themes, manuscripts. Call Jane Smith 233-6909. 
Wanted: off-campus housing for one chick next semester, call 8996. 
Rider wanted to Oregon. Must share expenses. Leave December 
19. Call 233-3893. 
Wanted: ambitious person or couple interested in earning good part-time income. For interview call Mr. Wells· 272-8375. 
1 or 2 riders to Or,ange Bowl. 
Leaving  Indianapolis  Dec.  29.  
Must  share expenses.  Call  Jim  
259-9173  

Ride needed to Colorado or New Mexico for Christmas vacation. Call StE:ve, 1059 
• Need apartment for one for next semester. Preferably dose to campus & CHEAP. Call Rick 8284, Chris 4964 or Larry.paul 8276. 
Wanted: 2 roommates. Off. campus, 5-bedroom house. S50 mo. Call Denny 234-425~· 
Men and Women students needed to help get YWCA Home for Girls ready to open. Some jobs are: painting bunk beds, cleaning floors, moving furniture, etc. Supplies are at the home; just drop in and work. 520 North Lafayette. See Jay or JoAnn Powell. Or phone 233-9491 and ask for Carol Wilken. 
Ride available Dayton-Ft. Lauderdale Dec. 27. Call 8026. 
Volunteers to swim with a child from Logan Center; especially week of Dec. 11-15. Call 7308. 
1 need a ride to anywhere on the West Coast from Miami after the Orange Bowl game. Will share driving, expenses, etc. I can't afford getting ripped off by the airlines! Please call Pete at 8253. 
Need 2-5 Orange Bowl tickets. Will pay. Call Andy 6827. 
FOR SALE 

For Sale: two Sugar-Bowl tix. Cheap. CaII Joe 287-4506. 
For Sale: '64 Ford Galaxy 500, $250. Great condition. A real trucker' 289-5940. 
New Years Eve fireworks tor sale. Send name and telephone 
number to  Box 685  NO,  Indiana  
46556.  
CHRISTMAS  SPECIAL.  $10 off  

reg. price of new Westinghouse Compact Refrigerators. 4.4 cu. ft. cap., free delivery. CALL NOW! 234-0578 or 232-2618. Ask for Tom 
For sale: reliable old friend 64 Chevy $275 or best offer. Call Ski 233-1547. 
BEST BUYS FOR XMAS. G.E. portable stereo, $60.; Underwood portable typewriter, $70. Both A· 1 ' 259-9766. 
Like new suede vest with fringe. $25. 233-8855. 
For sale: head skis, poles, foam­boots, and Grand Prix bindings. $225 or best offer; call Steve 6715. 
L<?ST. ANI;! i=QlJND :, .• .. 
Lost: rabbits Fur hat (madcap) reward $10.00. Rosetta M. Kf(rjgan/~70J L&~.e Shore prive, Lost 1 pair green girl's mittens, call Dan 8810. 
Lost: Woman's plaid wool coat & white knit dress at gas station on 
u.s. 31 the Tues. before Thanksgiving. Please call 8031 . Reward. 
Found: wore rim glasses in Eng. Aud. Friday after the movie. Call 6664_ 
Found: a Cllt. Call and identify 1409. 
Found: watch near towers; call 8872. 
Stolen· Carmel H.S. laundry bag containing sweaty gym suit and a pair of prized Adidas Olympia's from North Dining Hall. Will thief please return. Call B.J. Dowe, 1380. 
Lost: 74 class ring. Initials SFP. Reward, call 7921. 
Found: Burlington high school class of '72 ring -Red stone . call 6167. 
NOTICES 
Before you buy a ring tor a gift or engagement call James 3133. It may save you a great deal. 
EUROPE! Lowest rates to all European cities! Daily flights from NY., Chicago, D.C., Philadelphia and others. British Overseas Airways Corp. Call Clark, 283-8810, tor details. 
Interested in participating in Gay Awareness discussion groups? Write to Gay Awareness, care of The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Ind. 
Gals, earn $10 -$20 tor 2 hours work from your home. For details call 272-8375. 
Christmas Loans! Not due until January 19th. Morrissey Loan Fund. Open until Dec. 13. Monday.Friday 11:15-12:15, La Fortune Basement. 
Will the men who borrowed our reference material on recycling return it or call 288-4664 Mr. Eggleston. 
Every Friday at 4:55 a non-stop Greyhound leaves the Circle tor Chicago. Call Tom Boyer, 234· 8259 tor reservations. 
Signups for the PITT CLUB XMAS BUSES will take place in Room C-1 (first floor am­phitheater) La Fortune, Thur­sday December 7 at 7:30. 
Speaking of BLONDES Girls willing to help us add some accent to our SWEDISH SMORGASBORD, contact Pat Joyce at the South Dining Hall, 6147, before Friday, Dec. 8th. Dinner will be provided as well tor any St. Mary's girl who can h~R· It'll be fun -so how 'bout...ifi -· 
VALKOM,~N 
FOR RENT 
Bedroom in private home. One mile from ND All privileges of comfortable home including cooking and washing facilities. 272-2445 after 7 pm or anytime weekends. 
PERSONALS 
Dear SMC skater, I'm in love with you. See you Friday nile. The Bearded VVonder 
't....... 
There will be a Graduafe·Student 

· ' ·Un~on Meeting Fridav •1! f}OPQ inM;thigan 'City/ h1di'ana 46360.' ' 
127 N.S.H. All delega(es p1ease plan to attend.

Lost · Pink cameo ring Fri., Dec. 1, call Beth 4679. 

-~-­
Irish seek first win , tonight vs.Valpo 
by Stan Vrankar Monday night's overtime loss to State. B0-72. Valpo then ran into <t Notre Dame's basketball team the Buckeyes was especially Big Ten toughie (a Ia Notre Darnel returns to action tonight, playing demoralizing, as the Irish led by t­in Illinois, and dropped an B0-6:! 
en points with four minutes to play, decision in Champaign.

Valparaiso at the ACC. 
Tipoff time for the contest bet­then failed twice within the last Purden returns a veteran crew, ween the Crusaders and coach minute of regulation time to including a core of senior starters. Digger Phelps' winless cagers is 8 capitalize on chances for victory. (i-B center John Wolfenberg <a real o'clock. 
The Crusaders are currently stringbean at 185 pounds) is the Valpo should provide a slight sporting a 1-2 record under third­best of the bunch. Wolfenberg 
respite for the Irish. with the N.D. vear head coach Bill Purden. They averaged 21.4 points per game last voungsters still smarting from ~plit a pair of home games last season, and specializes in high­beatings at the hands of Big Ten -weekend. dumping North Central, arching turnaround jumpers from 
powers Michigan and Ohio State. !l7-72. and losing to Wisconsin 12 to 15 feet out. Valpo also has three other
The Observer Sports Staff::=============::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: starters who averaged in double figures a year ago. 6-5 Wally Schultz <12.5 ppgl and 6-4 defen­sive star Dale Lesicki <10.9) man
The Irish Eye 
the forward posts. while 6-0 Tom Haeberle < 11.0) and 5-10 playmaker Paul Fredlake are the guards. Both Lesicki and Fredlak<e are graduates of St. Joseph High in South Bend, and were members ofWithout meaning to be unduly harsh to the postmen who deliver the the area's last high school squad to U.S. Mail through heat. rain, snow and gloom of night, it seems in­advance to the state finals 0969).

congruous that, in a nation which can be traversed by plane in the space .Joel Oberman and Milt McGe•eof four to five hours, it often takes mail four o!' five days to reach its are the the most impressiv•edestination on a cross country jaunt. Considering that the princely sum of Crusader sophomores. Oberman,eight cents is extracted from correspondents by the Post Office, it's only who checks in at 6-7 and 190,proper that one's letters receive prompt handling and first class treat­dicked for a 24.1 average with thement. 
frosh last vear, while 6-2 guard ­But. on occasion. it becomes a source of wonderment that it can take so McGee was good for 16.5 points per many days for a letter to be delivered. And, if you don't know the zip code, game.
you might as well do just as the pioneers did in the !BOOs-stick your lett~r Coming off a 15-11 season,in the fork of a tree by the roadside and hope some helpful traveler will Purden has high hopes for hisbring it eloser to its addressee. . . , . 
squad this time around. TheSince the North Pole has yet to be assigned a zip code, Its a necessity crusaders face a formidable arraythat the Christmas list of the Observer Sports Department be mailed of opponents that indudes Ohiopromptly. It appears that most of Notre Dame'~ ~ports tea~s are con­Universitv, Northwestem, Tulane, fusing Advent with the coming of Lent and absta1mng from victory, so a Lovola of Chicago, and Butler,little Christmas cheer is definitely in order. 
along with the Irish.

If the Jolly Old Elf sees fit, here's what he'll bring to provide a merry A pair of sophomores currently vuletide for N.D. sports figures: hold the top scoring spots for Notre · Ara Parseghian-a victory in the Orange Bowl on New Year's Day. 
Dame. 6-9 center John Shumate,.Joe Haggar-a good pair of Levi slacks. 
who outdueled highly-touted 7-0.John Shumate-a big shoe. 
Luke Witte of Ohio State two nights Mark Kronholm-some defensive help. 
ago., paces the Irish with a 23.0
Tom Devine-two good knees. 
ppg average. Sharp-shootingBill Etter-another year of eligibility. 
guard Gary Brokaw ranks a close Digger Phelps-a better recruiting year in '73. second with a 20.5 mark, including Willie Townsend-a day of rest. a 23-point opening game performa•­Andy Huff-a toupee. nce against the Wolverines. Dave Casper-a fishing pole. Phelps will probably stick with 
Peter Crotty-a two-gallon beer mug with an embossed figure of Bob his starting lineup olf Shumate-, Valibus on the front. Pete Crotty and Gary Novak at the 
Mike Townsend-another Irish interception record in '73, even if he forwards. and Brokaw and Dwight does have to wait 11 months to get it. Clay at the guard SJPOts. Don J<:d llrabcsak-a curve ball. Silinski , Chris Stevens, and Tom 
.Joe Alvarado-a year's supply of tacos (if they fit into your bag, San-Varga are also expected to se•e tal. dut,y as swingmen.
llerb Briick-a seat by the stage at Largo's. 
. Notre Dame and Valparaiso.1 im Musuraca and Pat McGraw-a brand new couch of their own. 
have met fifteen times, with the . 
Mike Creanev-the collected works of his favorite author-Eric Segal. Crusaders managing only one 
Tom Pagna_:_a book on Eastern philosophy, so that he may finally learn 
victory. that coming back in just why life is like a river. 1921. The two squads have met for 
Bill fli('key-a pair of long pants to wear at late November football the last five straight seasons on a practices. home-and-home basis, with the 
The Irish basketball team-some new uniforms. Irish winning each of those con­
"Leftv" Smith-a band to play at his team's hockey games, something tests by an average of 16 points.
that Santa forgot last Christmas. Last season, N.D. dumped Valpo, Darrvll Dewan-a book about "How to meet girls." !l1-71. for one of the few victories in Mvron Shuckman-a case of Hawaiian punch. Phelps' first season with the Irish. Chris Stevens-an autographed Jeffrey Cain record album. .John Cieszkowski-a hardbound copy of the "Adventures of the Cisco 
Kid." 
Rodgers wins 
Steve Niehaus-three healthy seasons. Bob Thomas-a footstool fit for the king of N.D. kickers. "Goose" Novak-another nickname. 

the Heisman
Rick Eich-a chance to play first base with his .486 batting average. 
Lt. Tim McCarthy-another promotion and five good puns for use Nebraska's talented wingback, during the 1973 home football season. . . 
Johnny Rodgers, has been namedDave Drew-a pair of fluorescent contact lenses which can be easily the 1972 recipient of the Reismanspotted on grass, mud or artificial turf. . . . 
Trophy, presented annually by theWestern Athletic Conference football offictals-stx brand-new inad­Downtown Athletic Club of New vertent whistles. 
York to the nation's outstandingBrian Doherty-another look at that snowball in the Miami game-and football player. 
a chan('e to throw it back. 
The senior halfback averagedHoger Valdiserri-a couple of Irish All-Americans in every major 182.8 yards per game in all purpose sport. 
rushing and scored 17 touchdownsIrish football fans-the pleasure of seeing their team win next Oct. 27th while leading the Cornhuskers to ­<date of the N.D.-U.S.C. football game in South Bend>. 
an 8-2-1 record.

Western Collegiate Hockey Association-that third official that they need so desperately. . An outstanding runner, pass ­Irish basketball fans-a change of site of the yearly game wtth Ken-catcher and return specialist, R­
tucky from "neutral" Louisville to an equally neutral site-the ACC. odgers finished ahead of Oklaho­Bob Roemer-a home run in the NCAA baseball tournament. ma's Greg Pruitt and Nebraska Dan Morrin-a letter that doesn't come in his mailbox. middle guard Rich Glover in the Eric Penick-a salt and pepper shaker to share with Art Best. balloting. LSU's Bert Jones placed 
HeggiE( Barnett--a tube of Protein 21 to make the split ends disappear. fourth. . th t d .
ln capturmg e cove e prtze, Mike Swallow-a nice grassy field. the 5'9", 173-pounder overcame a D'Arcy Keating-a goal. controversial editorial campaign,
• steve Curry-a game to play while biding time in the penalty box. concentrated in the East and Frank Pomarico-a chance to throw the football. South, against his selection Gerrv DiNardo-a chance to catch Pomarico's pass. because of several off-the-field Tom·Clements-more off-the-field pass completions. clashes with the law. Tim Hudnick:-another shot at Anthony Davis. . As a fre•shman, Rodgers was 
Jim Noe-one of the hardest things in the world to fmd, the ball that placed on probation after he and Ohio U. 's Steve Swisher put into orbit last spring. sveral friends were charged with a Pete Schmidt-someone to replace Rob Reschan. service station holdup. 
-

by "Lefty" Ruschmann 
Injuries continued to haunt Notre Dame's wrestling team, which returned from last weekend's Rochester Tech In­vitational Tournament with three more wrestlers forced out of ac­tion. 
The Irish posted a fifth-place finish in the eight-team meet, which was won by powerful Brock­port State. Brockport's lineup included three All-Americans and the NCAA 118-pound champion, Bruce Biondi. Syracuse finished second, followed by Akron, Colgate. and Notre Dame. 
AI Rocek, again wrestling up one weight class at heavyweight, took home the only Irish first-place finish. Steve Brischetto and Dave Boyer. wrestling at 134 pounds and 142 pounds respectively, both placed fourth in their events, the next best Notre Dame finishes. 
Weekend injuries, which cost Notre Dame two more starters, brought the total of injured regulars to six. Mike Martin followed the other Irish co-captain, Mike Kemp, to the injured list, suffering a severe groin injury in the 126-pound competition, Martin, who eventually finished sixth, is listed as doubtful for the dual meet against Wayne State Friday. 
Bob Latta, who placed fifth in the 190-pound class, sustained a knee injury, the third one suffered by an Irish player in less than three weeks. Coach Terry Mather commented on his team's bad fortune. saying, "In my nine years of coaching. I've never seen any one of my players out with a knee injury, and now they come in bunches." Mather hinted at fur­ther shuffles in the Notre Dame lineup, which had featured eight rookies against Valpariso last week. 
The third Notre Dame injury was sustained by substitute Mike Keough, who suffered a concussion and will likewise be lost to the Irish. 
Rocek rebounded strongly from his defeat in the Valpariso meet, disposing of three heavyweights to earn first place in his weight class, as well as his team's award as the outstanding player of the week. Hocek took apart Rochester's Dave Anderson in the first round, 10-2, and then outpointed Chuch Chulada of Syracuse, 4-1. Rocek assured a first by shutting out Jim Pukas of Akron by a 2-o count. 
Steve Brichetto, the 134-pounder, continued to perform surprisingly well for the Irish, placing fourth. Brichetto dropped a tough 2-0 overtime decision to Tom Pearse of Rochester Tech in his final match after outpointing Vic Barnhart of Rochester, 10-3, and Joe Standt of Akron, 5-2. 
Dave Boyer also finished fourth, dividing four matches in the 142­pound class. Boyer defeated Greg Cocciari of Colgate, 8-1, and went on to outpoint Ray Ruliffson of Hochester Tech, 2-0. Boyer narrowly lost his opening match, dropping a 5-4 verdict to Bill Ciccarelli of Brockport, losing the 
deciding point by seven seconds of 
riding time. 

In other action, 118-pound Marc 
Ronquillo lost a pair of matches. 
Pat O'Connor, wrestling at !50­
pounds. divided his four matches 
and placed fifth. Rich Gilloon, the 
!58-pounder, likewise split his four 
matches and took fifth place in his 
class. 167-pound Mike Delmege 
drew a bye but lost his remaining 
three contests, one of them by 1-0 
in overtime. Bill Moran finished 
fifth in the 177-pound class, also 
splitting his four outings. 

Irish drop to twelfth 
Southern California, the nation's only undefeated major college football team, retained its number one gridiron ranking in both the UPI and the AP college polls this week. The Trojans finished their regular season last Saturday, winning their eleventh game 45-23, over Notre Dame. The Irish dropped from tenth to twelfth in both polls as a result of their defeat. 
The final UPI poll of the season awarded Southern Cal its third national championship, following former Trojan title teams of 1962 and 1967. The final AP poll is taken after the January I bowl games. 
In slipping to their twelfth place berth the Irish yielded to Ten­nessee (9-2) and Louisiana State HI-1-U who were both idle last Saturday. Alabama. who posed the only serious threat to Southern Cal's title hopes, dropped from second to fourth in the polls as a result of their upset loss to Auburn last weekend. 
AP Ratings 

1. So cauiOrrua (50111·0-0 1,000 
2. Ok I ahoma I0-I·0 878 3. Ohto State 9-1·0 666 4. Alabama 10-1-0 606 
5. 
Penn State 10· 1·0 . . 554 

6. 
Auburn 9-1·0 . . 536 1. Texas 11-1·0... . 41l4 8. Michigan 10-1·0 . 467 9. Nebraska 8-2·1 3l!:i 


10. Louisiana State 11-1·1 . . 273 II. TPnnesseP 9-2·0 259 
12. Notre Dame 8-2·0 rtl 13. Colorado 8-3-0.. 174 14. UCLA 8-3-0 79 15. Arizona Stall' 9-2-0 68 I& North Carolina 9-2·0 . . 60 17. Louisville 9·1-0... 22 
18. West Virginia 8-3-0. . . . . IM 
11. Washington State 7-4·0.. . 10 20. Purdue 6-!).0 ......... -3 
UPI Ratings 
CFINALI 

Polats I. Southern Cali!orni9 35 11-0 350 2. Oklahoma 10-I 302 
3. Ohio StatP 9-1 . 'm 4. Alabama 10-1 .. .209 
5. Texas 9-1 . . .In 6. Michigan 10-1 150 
7. 
Auburn 9·1 .... . 144 

8. 
Penn State 10-1 ..... . . 131 

9. 
Nebraska 8-2-1 . .. 66 10. Louisiana State 11-1·1 59 


11. 
Tennessee !1-2 ... . .35 

12. 
Notre Dame 8-2 ...... . 14 

13. 
Arizona State !1-2. . .. 6 

14. 
Tie Colorado 8-3 .. 5 


14. Tie North Carolina 9·1 5 
16. 
Louisville 9·1 .. ... . .. 4 

17. 
TiP UCLA 8-3 . . . . . . . . -. 3 


17. Tie Washi~gton State 7·4 .. 3 
17. Tie Utah State 8-3 . . . . . . . 3 
20. Sail Diego State 10-1 ......... . 2 







