On The Inside 
Course evaluation book arrives ... page 2 Yes: still good a week later ... page s 

Vol. VII No. 52 
SMC issues guidelines for selection of co-ex classes 

SMC students can expect to encounter some problems in acquiring Notre Dame classes. The 3,000 credit hour ceiling will undoubtedly be exceeded quickly 
by Maria Gallagher St. Mary's Editor 
Saint Mary's has issued a series of guidelines for women who intend to pre-register for Notre Dam<' courses next semester. 
Aside from the 3,000 credit hour ceiling agreed upon by both schools, Saint Mary's students are further limited to one course per semester at Notre Dame. All course requirements and drpartm<'ntal major requirements must also be fuifill<'d at Saint Mary's. Major courses may be ! ak<'n at Notre Dame, but will be considered {')<'ctives. Exceptions will be made for seniors n•c<'iving Notre Dame degrees and will require morr than one course to complete their major. 

SMC eligibility 
F.ligibility limitations were also set forth in the SM(' statem<'nt prepared by Vice President of Academic Affairs William Hickey and the departmrnt chairmen. Seniors and juniors will hC' given first priority, with sophomores also Pligibl<' if there are sufficient hours remaining within the quota limits. Should it turn out that not all sophomores are able to realize the co-ex option. a lottery system will determine which stud<'nts remain in Notre Dame courses without charge. 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Fr<'shman students will not be eligible for participation in the free co-ex program, but may Pl<'ct Notre Dame courses if they pay the Notre Dam<' tuition charge for the course. 
Hickey yesterday explained that the guidelines wPre drawn up to avoid the "free-for-all" that prP-rrgistration could become without such limitations, and as a fair means of ensuring each stud<'nt an Pqual opportunity to participate in the program. 

Approval of advisor 

Eligible students enrolling in a Notre Dame eourse must list that course on her prc~egistration form, to be approved by her advtsor. Department authorization must be obtained for checkmark courses, and no Notre DamP courses may be added after the advance rPgistration period under the free co-ex 
program. 

ND limitations 

The joint letter issued November 16 by Fr. JamPs Burtchaell and Dr. Edward Henry stipulated that such guidelines would be d<'termined by the individual institution. Ac­cording to Burtchaell, Notre Dame does not plan lo impose any limitations similar to those <'stablished by Saint Mary's other than the 3,000 erPdit hour ceiling and that co-ex courses cannot be added after preregistration. Courses will be <u;signed on a first come, first served basis. Burtchaell added thatcourserequirements and departmental requirements may be fulfilled at Saint Mary's pending approval of the student's major department. 

ND policy criticized 

Hickey criticized the Notre Dame policy eharging that students would not be assured of g<'tting into courses they register for should the :l,OOO credit hour ceiling be exceeded, as it probably will be. Notre Dame would then be forced to follow the procedure that Saint Mary's has _set forth beforehand, giving priority ac­eordmg to class rank, Hickey believes. 
An informal question--answer session with Dr. Hickey concerning the co-ex program is schPduled today at 4:00p.m. in the Little Theatre at Saint Mary's for all interested students. 
Tuesday, November 28, 1972 

R. D. Laing: scholar turned prophet who believes that the faint line between sanity and madness may have disappeared .. 
Dr. R.D.Laing will speak here on Wednesday 
R.D. Laing, controversial psychiatrist and author will speak at Washington Hall this Wednesday Pvening, (Nov. 29) at 8:30p.m. 
As a psychoanalyst and psychiatrist, his research 
has been concerned with extreme distrubances in 
human communication, with different kinds of 
fa~ilies, and with the varieties of human experience. 
Ltke Marshall McLuhan and Timothy Leary, R. D. 
Laing is a professional scholar transformed into an 
oracle and prophet. He began as an anylyst of 
schi7:ophrenia, basing his early writings on years of 
servtce in mental institutioons. 
Un_like sof!le other psychiatrists, Laing refused to 
constder schizophrenia in isolation from the family and 
society. His conclusion; in a world where "normal 
m<'n have killed perhpas 100,000,000 of their fellow 
normal men in the last 50 years," the uncertain line 
between sanity and madness is all but lost. 
Schizophrenia, Laing contends, is a label pinned by a 
troubled society on some of its more difficult members. 
I_t is s~ciety_that is both wrong and wrongheaded. In hts radtcal vtew, schizophrenia itself is not necessarily a "b~eakdown" at all, but may be a "breakthrough" a cructal voyage through "inner space" to a new life. 
R.D. Laing studied medicine at Glasgow University. 
liP _w_as a psychiatrist in the British army and a phystctan at the Glasgow Royal Mental Hospital, and he t.a~ght at the ~niversity of Glasgow. Subsequently. h~ .]omed the Tav1stock Clinic and was later appointed Dtrector of the Langham Clinic in London. From 1961 to 1967 he undertook research into families, and he is now in private practice as a psychoanalyst. 
Sm~e 1.965 he has b~en Chairman of the Philadelphia Association, a chanty concerned with developing approaches to problems which, in Dr. Laing's view, ar<' created by defining certain forms of human b<'havior and experience as signs of "mental illness." 
He is the author of numerous articles and reviews. His books include SPif and Others; The Divieed Self; Ht•ason and Violence (with David Cooper); Sanity. 1\tadnt'ss and thP Family. Vol. 1; The Families of ~chizopl~rPnics (with Aaron Esterson); Interpersonal I t'ITt'ptlon: A ThPory and a Method of Research (with 
H. Phillipson and A.R. Lee); The Politics of the Family; and The Politics of Experience and Knots. 


the observer Tuesday, November 28, 1972 


Course evaluation booklet printed 
by David Rust Starr Reporter 
More than 320 courses were summed up an analysed in the Scholastic-Observer Course Evaluation Uooklet for the spring of 1972, released to students yesterday. 
The free booklet, edited by the Scholastic-based editorial board of Jim Pauer, Terri Phillips, Joe Hunde and Tim Standring, covered more courses than any previous booklet published at Notre Dame or St. Mary's. 
Both ND and SMC courses were covered, for the first time in three years. · "Every course evaluation whicl managed to get into us was published in the booklet," said Pauer. "The 'addenda' was for late <>ntries. Our goal was to get as many courses covered as we could, and I think that the final product was fairly comprehensive." 
Most of the quadpartite editorial group were happy with the booklet in the making since the second week of October and finished late last week. 
"In the past, booklets have given skimpy coverage ~o General Program and Philosophy cour­ses." said Runde. "This booklet covers then pretty thoroughly." 
Phillips could also say last night that she thought "it came off pretty well," although she had some criticism of editorial policy. 
"Those evaluations rarely 
presented any 'bad side' of the 
ocurses," she said. "We edited all 
of them, and when we saw an 
unfavorable comment about a 
professor, we took it out." 
The result, said Phillips, was that the final products "did not really reflect the majority opinion of the students about their cour­ses." 
"After all," she said, "this is a 
booklet being put out by students 
for students." 
She concluded that on the whole, 
the booklet "basically reflected 
student opinion" and claimed the 
publication to be "as useful as 
..PEACE. Dare we still wish it? Dare we not?11 
With these words, James Car­roll ends his book. ELEMENTS OF HOPE and sums up his hopes for mankind. 
James Carroll is a sensitive, concerned and involved Paulist Chaplain at Boston University who feels deeply about the lack. of understanding among men; a poet who looks at the ele­ments of earth, air, fire and water . . . and reaches beyond for greater awareness of man's role on earth. 
Whether he writes of Asian children trembling in fear from hovering planes, or an astro­naut's sadness as he looks down on earth, James Carroll's 
perception and powerful image­ry prod, move and touch the reader. With highly quotable phrases presented in sense line style, he balances the actions of men with the beauty and hope that surround us. Whether you read this book in the soli­tude of your own room, or read from it to others, you will dis­cover the thought-provoking impact of the eloquent words and full-color photography. 
ELEMENTS OF HOPE is a compassionate appeal for un­derstanding, for love, for peace. It is a book that has urgency, a call to man for a more dynamic awareness of himself and God. 
BUY ELEMENTS OF HOPE at your local bookstore, or write Paulist Press, Dept. 0~ 400 Sette Drive, Paramus, N.J. 07652 
$4.115 per COllY· 112. l>B.JreB. 
Full-color Photos. Bllr sY,"" X 11" lrize. Hardcover. 

anybody could have put together." tremendously helpful, especially 
Each course evaluation was split with regard to the size of the into five sections. course content, booklet." presentation, readings, organiz-"I hope students will understand . 
ation. and comments by the the problem in course evaluation," evaluator, but length of each said Pauer. "Each evaluation is varied from a few lines to a half-done by one person, and although column. 322 classes were finally each evaluator is urged by us not to included in the booklet, along with be one-sided, to talk with other nine "fakes" planted by the staff, students who've taken the ocurse including "Psychology of LSD," and with its professor, and check "Armadillo in 20th Century Art," course texts," the editors cannot and "The Chauvinistic Novel." guarantee that each evaluation 
The Scholastic has put together reflects a "majority of student and published course evaluation opinion." booklets nearly every semester "In all cases we tried to get the since 1967, reported Runde, but opinion of the students," said this is the first time The Observer Pauer, "but it was tough with the has helped with the publication. number of courses we were The daily campus journal's covering." computer tape system was used by Runde was pleased with the booklet editors, giving them a number of courses covered. more direct control over their "Of course, it's impossible to material as it was processed. contact people who've had all the 
"Although it was a lot more different courses," he said. "What difficult." said Phillips, "I think we did was set up authority on a . book." 
He also urged . "every depart­
ment to come out with course 
seIection lists earlier next 
semester" to facillitate com­
pilation and production of future 
evaluation booklets. 
The next booklet should be out 
for each department who had the responsibility of contacting as many people as they could who'd had the courses." 
He had one suggestion that he believed would make the book more useful to students. 
"If you're considering taking a given course in a particular department for next semester," said Runde, "look at all the courses of that department ·described in the booklet. Don't go by the title alone; you can get that in the University's course selection booklet. If you do <make a decision exclusively through titles), you're defeating the purpose of our whole pre-registration" this spring, according to Runde. "The organization for putting it together is still pretty much up in the air." 
Phillips reported that the four l.'ditors, along with booklet publishers Greg Stidham and John Abowd <editors in chief of The Scholastic and The Observer respectively) discussed giving the project over to a "separate body of students" and have their work "produced by The Observer." thus eliminating The Scholastic from the picture. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester ex· cept vacations by the students of the L'niversity of Notre Dame and 
St. Mary's College. Subscriptions 
may be purchesed for sa per semester (14 per year> from the Observer, L'ox Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class 
postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556 . 

printing with The.~O:b:se:r~v_:e~r_w:.a:s:_.:.m::,::il:.,:it:ar~y~b:a:s::.is:;·_:w::_:i:th:_:'c:o:m:m::a:nd:e:r:_:s_'._":_:a:bo:u::t:..t:_:w~o::._:o:r~t:h:re:::e~d=a~y:s~b:e:fo:r~e~~=======:::::==~ 
TURN IN YOUR YOUTH CARD FORTWNs. YOU'LL GETA TOP LP ALBUM AND A WHOLE LOT OF THE WORLD FOR FREE. 
It may sound funny to turn in your card for a free TWA counter (or pay $3 for a new one, if you don't TWA card, but it's worth it. Ifyou turn in your have one to turn in), you'll get more than any other American or United or whatever other airline's youth airline offers you. Maximum discounts on TWA and card you have to your campus representative or any all other airlines, more free things and, on top of all 
that, a free album. 
FREE ALBUM-FIRST 10,000. 
First, you'll get a Record Club of America coupon Plus a free lifetime membership in Record good for your choice of a free top album worth up to Club of America, with no obligation to buy any $6. 98. From a list of over 100 incredibles. Like Three record. The offer's limited to the first 10,000, so Dog Night, Neil Diamond, Roberta Flack, Elton John. you've got to do it soon. 

FREE MONEY-SAVING COUPONS• 
When you land in any of six cities (London, Boston, Paris, Los Angeles, San Francisco or Denver) with your TWA card, you'll get a brochure full of hundreds of dollars' worth of deals. And we mean deals. Like absolutely free or 50% off. 
What we did was to talk to students in those cities and ask where they'd take their friends-not 
BOSTON FREEBEES. 

FREE 
A spaghetti dinner at the "Spaghetti Emporium, Inc.:· just off Harvard Square. 

FREE 
Breakfast in the "Pewter Pot Muffin House" (14locations) where many Harvard students stop first in the morning. 

FREE 
Admission to the "Prudential Center Skywalk;' the first place to go to get your bearings in Boston. 

FREE 
Combination health food platter from "Corners of the Mouth" restaurant. A healthy buffet of hot and cold dishes. 

FREE 
Quiche lorraine and cup of coffee at "La Crepe." 

FREE 
Indian soup and vegetable curry at the "India Sweet House" restaurant in Cambridge. 
FR~E 
Pair of earrings or pendant (and watch it being made) at "Whaler's Wharf." 

FREE 
Admission to "Passim Coffeehouse" during great evening performances. Or, during the day, a free beverage and dessert. 

FREE 
Hour of bike riding from "Streeter & Quarles" on Boylston Street. 
just the "in" places, but the spots that only the knowing would know about. And those are the ones we give you free dinners, drinks, club memberships or discounts in. Here are just some of the absolutely free things you'll get in London and Boston, as an example of what TWA has arranged for you in all the cities. 
LONDON FREEBEES. FREE 
Admission to any of ten Greyhound Racing Tracks. A great English sport. 


FREE 
Membership and drink at "La Valbonne:• one of the toughest clubs to get a membership in, even for Londoners. 

FREE 
A full breakfast at your choice of 10 Quality Inns, famous for their hearty fare. 

FREE 
A pint of "Watney's Red Barrel" in "The Prospect of Whitby," or your choice of over 40 London pubs. 

.----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Tuesday, November 28, 1972 the observer 
3 

warld briefs 
<cl 1972 New York Times 
Washington--President Nixon announced that he had accepted the. resignations of two Cabinet members-that of George Romney, Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, and of Melvin R. Laird, Secretary of Defense. He said that neither John B. Connally, his former Secretary of the Treasury, nor Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller of New York would be among those named to key positions in his new administration, but he said that Caspar W. Weinberger, Director of the office of management and budget, was in line for a significant post. 
Washington--President Nixon met twice Monday with Henry A. Kissinger, his chief foreign policy affairs adviser, who made a rare trip to the State Department to confer with Secretary of State Rogers. Administration officials privately asserted that efforts to achieve an Indochina settlement were on course. One official, fully briefed on Kissinger's talks with the North Vietnamese in Paris last week, said he thought that a settlement could be arranged in two to three weeks. 
Washington-Lawrence F. O'Brien is said to be maneuvering behind the scenes to regain his post as head of the Democratic National Committee, which is now held by Mrs. Jean Westwood. 
Student Advisory Council surveys 210 students about acadenlic life 
210 questionaires on acedemic life were distributed yesterday to a random sample of 70 sophomores, juniors and seniors in the College of Arts and Letters by the college's Student Advisory Council. 
The 118-question survey designed by the Advisory Council, with the help of the Dean, faculty members, and the Notre Dame Center of Analytical Planning, evaluates such areas as student couselling, the Freshman Year, student-faculty interaction, the honor system, pass-fail, and other academic matters. 
According to Dr. Frederic Crosson, Dean of the Arts and Letters College which is un­derwriting the expense of the project, "We need information to make dedisions in the College 
Council--decisions about the 
courses, the structures, and the 
programs in the college-which has 
to come from widely-based student 
participation." 
Calling it a "responsibility" of students to reoond to the survev Crosson emphasized the im­portance of tis results not only to current students, but to students in the years ahead. The information collected will supplement current discussion about the college's future. 
I'd like to earnestly solicit thoughtful student responses," he said, "It's been our experience that the most thoughtful ex­pressions of student thought are retrospective; that is, when a student can look back on past academic years and evaluate them." 
Bill Mathews, member of the A & L Student Advisory Council and primary designer of the questionnaire, also noted that the information will be needed by student representatives on decision-making bodies to let the majority viewpoint be known. 
"The Dean and the Council alike are interested in the betterment of liberal education at Notre Dame, but we are merely a group of sixteen students and are limited in our contacts. Therefore, it is important for us to Jind out what 
December display will feature Columbus artists 
The works of 11 faculty members at the Columbus <Ohio} School of Art will be displayed until December 31 in the Art Gallery of the University of Notre Dame. 
All nationally known artists, the exhibits will include paintings or metal sculptures of Charles O'Brien Baker, Dennis Drum­mond, Edward! Colston, David Fullam, Darron LilJian, Paul Meyers, Kenneth Rich, Todd Slaughter, James Thornton and Lowell Tolstedt. The exhibition has been arranged by Thomas Nakashima, a former student of art at Notre Dame. 
Featured will be some ex­ceptionally large pieces, including two paintings measuring 22 feet in width and a sculpture that is 24 feet in height. 
ANYTHING WRONG WITH: listening to a couple of fantastic bands? 
Finding someone to dance to them with?· 
[).rinking anything you can think of? Staying up late and missing Carson one or two nights a week? 
So Now You Know Where You're At 


'• ~fe C/,.~ 
2802 SOUTH 11th ROAD NILES, MICHIGAN 49120 
Phone-~ 
most students are thinking-and produce visible evidence to that effect--so we can work toward the goals most students want," Mathews said. 
The questionnaire was distributed by members of the Student Advisory Council and will be personallly picked up Wed­nesday evening. 
Referring to the length of the survey, Matthews apolo.gized, but 
emphasized that it should only take fifteen minutes to complete, and had to be that long to "cover the 
issues." He also pointed out that to preserve anonymity the in­formation will be coded onto computer tapes. 
"It's not every day that students are asked their opinions on the future of the college," said Mat­t hews, "and I hope those asked will take a little time out --because this small effort will go a long way." 

an campu•l:aday 
4:30p.m.--seminar, dna induced transformation in drosophilia: implications for gene therapy, dr. allen s. fox, galvin life science auditorium 4:30p.m.--lecture, col. hoyt f. vandenberg jr., memorial library auditorium B:OOp.m.--recital, miss susan stevens, soprano, moreau little theatre, smc B:OOp.m.--forum, facism, a normal part of academe, dr. raymond giles, library auditorium 6:00p.m.--meeting, hall presidents council, st. ed's chapel 
at nd-smc 
CAC 
BLUES SERIES presents 




''HOUSTON STACKHOUSE'' 
LIvE 
AT WASHINGTON HALL Nov. 28th 8 pm $1.50 at the door 
doors open at 7:30 
Would you share malt liquor with a friend? 
Sure. Now there's no question about it. Because now malt liquor has a good name. BUDWEISER. BUDWEISER Malt Liquor is 100%-malt, malt liquor (no other grains are added). This makes BUDWEISER the first malt liquor that really is ..• malt liquor. 


Dpinian


THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
John Abowd Dan Thornton 
Tidings of
Editor-in-Chief Business Manager
NEWS: 283-1715 EDITORIALS: 283-8661 Don Ruane BUSINESS: 283-7471 Joe Butler 

comfort and ioy
Executive Editor Advertising Manager 
Tuesday, November 28, 1972 fred anlc:zak 
Generosity Killed the Coex 
Thursday November 16's Observer carried a lead story concerning the elimination of charges for coexchange courses in order to "make coex op­portunities more freely available to students on both campuses." It also carried in full the text of a joint letter released by Fr. Burtchaell and Dr. Henry which declared that "It has been agreed that at least for the second semester of 1972-1973 a more generous exchange program will prevail." 
This past weekend the details of this new "generous" program were revealed. Saint Mary's issued a set of explicit guidelines which stated in effect that only sophmores, juniors, and seniors would be eligible for coex courses, and that they would be able to elect one Notre Dame course next semester--an elective. Generous indeed--about as much as Scrooge's Christmas list. 
Notre Dame made an equally absurd move by placing no restrictions what­soever on preregistration, so that students will not be assured of placement in the Saint Mary's courses they register for. 
While it is to Notre Dame's credit that they left preregistration flexible, they 


Letters... 
creaney's column 
Editor: 
Many thanks to Mike Creany for 
sharing "a Moment" with many 
loyal Notre Dame fans. His 
dissertation in the November lOth 
issue of Tht> Obst>rver renewed our 
beliefs in the traditions and ex­
celll'nce so much a part of Notre 
Daml'. We are glad ,;Mikeshared 
with us--we can continue to be 
proud of being a small part of this 
great university--ad a Notre Dame 
fan. 
Thank you Mike Creany! 
Sincerely 
Mrs. John W. Monfront 
llartford City. Ind. 
"the stone zone" 
Editor: 
I have a niece attending your school. I shall not reveal her name for fear she will be scoffed at, 


daane•bury 
;laW, H5.CA(JCIJS? ~~~... THIS IS R£1/£1<~[) 

r 
r 
r 


f 
have also left themselves wide open to chaos. The present no-holds-barred policy is irreconcilable with the 3,000 credit hour ceiling. 
The very fact that administrators predict that the ceiling will be exceeded by Notre Dame students, and went so far at Saint Mary's as to deem stringent limitations necessary to the fair par­celling out of courses indicates the students' deire for that educational enrichment mentioned in the Burtchaell­Henry letter, and the need for coex ex­pansion. Dr. Hickey admitted that a return to the pre-1971 coexchange (completely unrestricted, with courses taken at either institution honored at both) had been suggested in one of the meetings but was rejected because it would result in "overburdening" certain departments offering advantages that the other school did not. 
The administration should listen to itself. If it really was interested in the educa tiona I enrichment of the students, a far more generous program than the "generous" one being offered next semester is required. 
called Priscilla Prude and Virginia Virgin and other such appellations. 
However, she is one of the for­-tunatl' girls. She is immune to this lm;\.eous age and its scarlet values. 
ll(ff'~ng brown limbs and tender 
bosom. will not be despoiled by 
soml' l~ti.ng lout out for a cheap 
night's ad~ture. 
But what s~t of age is this that permits institittjons of higher ll.'arning to pass oi.Jt birth control pills willy nilly, that allows sludl'nts to cohabit without pl'naJty? How long can our dl'bauched society go on ignoring thl' mass distribution of films like l\1arjot>. pocket books like The l-ltory of 0. or more recently Dolinsky's Mind Ont'. How long can obnoxious disc jockeys con­tinue to play recordings nation­wide extolling drugs and urging girls to "bang the whole gang." 
Young people, I ask you to takP-a 
moml.'nt! Pause, reconsider your 
pl'ril. Save yourselves. Turn your 
backs on the licentiousness around 
\"01.1. 
· And dear editor, I ask you, please print my Jetter. Allow one shaft of sunlight to pierce the 


Maria Gallagher 
gloom of "the stone zone." 
Sincerely 
J. Arthur Gorham III 
thanx 
Editor: 
On behalf of St. Judes Researchl Hospital, I would like to thank those volunteers who gave of their :iml.' and collected each football Saturday before the games as well as in the dorms for Leukemia and Sickle Cell Anemia. 
A check for $3,600 was sent to the hospital as a gift on behalf of the Notre Dame Community. 
Also I would like to thank Fr. 
David  Schlaver  and  Fr.  Bill  
Toohey  for  their  help  and  
cooperation in the drive.  

f<,inally, thanks are in order to the student body itself for their generosity and help. The money will be used in the research and treatment of children suffering from catastrophic diseases. 
Bespectfully Jack Greely 
It's in the air, it may be on your mind. It's that time of year beginning again, deck the halls. Well actually, Thanksgiving marked about the halfway point in our Christmas season, whose celebration bl.'gan whenever it was that the department stores stopped pushing Halloween masks and back to school supplies. But until after Thanksgiving, as unAmerican as it sounds, I just can't get psyched for Johnny Mathis Christmas carols, scrawny firs groaning with mounds of peeling tinsel, and everything else Christmas has come to mean. Though for some reason I do confess a weakness for carillons ..... 
Ever try shopping on the day after Thanksgiving? Besides the traffic, the torn and dangling Christmas decorations <they've been up a month now>, andthe Jow,insistl'nt Salvation Army bells, the mood is distinctive too. Resolutely, silently, the half-smiling shoppers display the quizzical glaze-eyed panic that has become a characteristic of the season with everyone from postmen to clerks to the poor fat fellow whom the department store has drafted again to be Santa. Even the shoppers who've resolved to not only survive but enjoy the season as wl'll find their good intentions very taxing to maintain; this may ex­plain that teeth-clenched, determined merriness of people who WILL be happy at Christmas no matter what, though that may seem a contrived, bizarre, inappriate reaction to what's really going on. 
Christmas in November 
Christmas--at least Christmas in the middle of a grey and snowless November, long before its traditional advent-is a downer for me. Oh, maybe when I was a kid, I was strong, enough to endure the huge, garish Mickey Mouse with the hole in the throat, and the Santa with the dry cleaned beard, the scent of liquor ( the one EFFECI'IVE comfort and joy of the season), and the tired eyes. But now I can't help but see how forced and unspontaneous things are, how near the sur­face is the joy, how unconvincing is the comfort. Most people are rl'lievl'd when the holidays are over. 
There are lots of times when we can merely gml'rate a good time ourselves; but I think we're feeling a little abandoned, a little deprived if Christmas, of all our holidays, is all our own contrivance. There's a sl.'nse about our heavily ornamented, almost armored Christmas that it is contrived, and really has no substance or meaning or comfort or joy beyond what we give it. So we fill it up with plastic decorations , Mickey Mouses, Santas ... even a token crib scene, whatever turns you on. This Christmas is something for each of us. 
The Paradox of ('hristmas 
I wonder if the paradox of a feast like Christmas being spirit sapping is disillusioning enough to strike us, to pierce thru into our bl.'leaguered, defensive consciousnesses. For it's not just Christmas that we invent. and to which we try to givesornl'thing for each of us. Invariably in the many situations where this happens, we find ourself Jacking something we didn't invent, sometning more real than our imaginations. Pop theology is one such compromise. But then it seems the only way the Church institution can survive in impressive numbers. If the common denominator of appeal is low, we must ad­just downward, however exalted our original truth and reason for community may have been. Excellence is elitist. 
Too, in government our real reason for associating is individual freedom; other people are mainly an instrument to that, and sacrifice for others is in terms of long term calculation. 
Perhaps Christmas is superficial because one's inventions can't satisfy him, being no more than individual imagination. Whatever way we might invent Christmas, it would still ultimately produce the frowning shoppershunching their shoulders as if that could help isolate them from the winter cold, and the human cold; we may be con­Iiguous, but because of the differences of our purposes, we can't work together. Except accidentally, of course, when you're useful to my l.'nds. which remain the most important and alive thing I am l'apabll.' 
of. 

The Declaration of Christmas 
Even the little towns are "celebrating" already. It irks me to see Christmas dt'clart'd. Then, we get tired of it by exams, and cast it away, looking for some other amusement to keep our mind off whatever it is that ·we use Christmas to escape. There once was an alternative, though I onder if it can be considered a viable one now. A friend reminded me that the day after Christmas used to be the feast of the first martyr. Note the juxtaposition, for what it's worth. Christmas, what it really meant, used to be important enough to die for. without which life would be just a shell. Martyrdom meant the harmonizing of the human will to deeper, more important rhythms :hat exist outside of our inventing them. The tidings that the angels brought--but being modern theologians we might just think this to be an allegory--allowed (freed) men to live and die meaningfully. I guess we can't submit to such comfort and joy. 
I sincerely hope this season will mean more than momentary titilation for you; I hope you can burrow out from under all the wrapping paper, whose beauty is only temporarily satisfying to the human heart. Though there's no possible way I could be the first to wish it, ah well, Merry Christmas. 
r-----------------~ 
...Ye5, 7HI1r5 1</tSH!: WITH 7'Hc 86~R[). .. 

Sll&
s,qr, :rWAS IIJ~NPE.RING 

Sill/? 5.9Y 
IF >tV UJ{)()t..O Ulr£ 



••rrytrudeau 
the observer 
Managing Editor: Joe Abell News Editor: Anthony Abowd St. Mary's Editor: Maria Gallagher Editorial Editor: Jerry Lutkus Features Editor: Rod Braye Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson Campus Editor: Ann Therese Darin Associate Editors: Bob Higgins, Ed Ellis Special Projects Editor: Dan Barrett 
Night Editor: Kathy Schwille Ass't Night Editor: Robert Baker Layout: John Kloos Sports Night Editor: Vic Dorr pictura urtrabora: J. Michael Phillips 


-----------------------------------------~--~ 
Tuesday, November 28, 1972 the observer 5 
The One Last: Weekend 
yes: YES (even after a week and a half) 

jaseph abell 
If nothing else, Yes sure know how to ft>rent guitars, ranging from Spanish to put on a show. Theatrically, somebody double-necked electric. Wakeman, on the knows what they're doing, because the other side of the stage, flew from keyboard 
d'fect of last week's concert still lingers in to kt>yboard in a small area that resembled 
the minds of Notre Dame people. Musically, a physicist's laboratory. 
the same. something proven by the per­New drummer Alan White performed 
sistent strains of "Siberian Khatru" heard adequately in the missing Bill Bruford's 
from some unknown window on the way to 1now with King Crimson) place. The only that one-o'clocker. disappointment was singer Jon Anderson, 
Granted. somebody should have told them who looked like he was either totally that the ACC was a bit smaller than terrified or totally stoned. During songs, he Chicago's Amphitheatre, and hence they did little but stand and sing in that beautiful should turn down their amps a bit. And tenor of his. or would sway back and forth granted that a group can't always and clap his hands out of time; his intro's duplicate onstage those nifty bits of studio \\'l're also less than exciting. 
overdubbing. But somehow Yes managed to Howl' had his showpieces in his familiar fight all these disadvantages and come "Mood For A Day" and "The Clap," both of through with a show such as Notre Dame which show incredible accomplishment. hasn't seen since last year's Jethro Tull And then came the biggie: "Close To The 
concert. Edge." Beginning with a stunning mirror­wlwel. the twenty-minute work completely 
Tlw theatrics reached a peak at a rare Pnthralled this audience. The quiet middle point: the beginning. The conclusion of the part. "I Get Up. I Get Down" was especially Firebird Suite starts out quietly and slowly d'feetive. if a bit unorthodoxly done ­builds until the final horns are blasting front Wakeman merely played a tape while rowt>rs out of their seats. Suddenly, a waiting for his next cue. And the end, the spotlight picks out Rick Wakeman. replete musically satisfying declarations of "I get with sorcerer's cape and in the mad­up. I get down." were excellently done, with seit>ntist-at-lhe-high-organ stance before the wheel reappearing to the many colored 

Steve Howe works out on 
lead guitar during Close fornwrly blackened stage. The horns Anotner solo-· this time, Wakeman on To The Edge, the latest Yes work. 
one of a half-a-dozen keyboards, from a spotlights. 
disappt>ar. and the rest of the group now keyboards. once again showing his vir­appt>ars with the help of four colored-light tuosi!~·. Running through a number of works 
photo by carol riordan
towt>rs Prt>cted around the stage area and , original and adapted. including bits of the 
launch into "Siberian Khatru." llallelulia chorus and Keystone Kops chase 
Sticking pretty much to the album ver­music. he climaxed with a simulated fire sion. as most of the songs did, this rocker sin•n. eomplete with smoke generator. was t•nough to get the crowd on its feet, But this peak wasn't enough for the en­
Lil:l:le BirJ Screen
unusual for a first sohg. It was followed by ding. With the crowd already cheering the "I've St>en All Good People" . best known sirm. the group broke into "Roundabout," for llw chunk called "Your Move" that JWrhaps their best-known song. All cares of madl' it to thl' Top 40 a couple of years ago. loudness went out the window with the It's always been a favorite of mine. despite dectric performance and people streamed its un-Y l'sian simplicity. and I was sad to down the aisles and climbed on chairs. It !war so much bad timing. \l'as all the crowd could do to get the group 
hack for the encore of "Yours is No 
art ferrantiDisgrace."
But if the concert had a low spot, that was the only one. The rest of "All Good People" Leading off the concert was a relatively If anv of you can find time to catch a . murderer Anthony Perkins playing a pair of t>xplodt>d with an energy and complexity unknown group in America, Lindisfarne. movie during the next three weeks you have joy-killers in contemporary times. It takes that didn't quit with the next song. "Heart of A good, solid rock band with a bit of Scottish m~· sympathy. Not only do the movies tend place in Massachusetts and is fairly tightly the Sunrise." influence, Lindisfarne went through a to be unspectacular but the big push is on written. It does have a few unpredictable 
Tlw theatrics continued through most of number of excellent songs, best of which and for some reason that I cannot com­plot twists which may entertain you. It airs 
tlw show. mostly in the form of Wakeman, were "Lady Eleanor" and "We Can Swing prehend studies have a greater emphasis tonight on 22 at 9:00. lt>ad guitarist Steve Howe and bassist Chris Together." The lead singer was unique in here than TV. Perhaps a realignment of The rest of the films are made-for-TV. Squirt>. Squire, decked out in a glittering that at times his voice sounded like Ian priorities is necessary. Oh well.:. Tonight Home fot· thl' Holidays premieres at 
capl' and thigh-high leather boots, danced Anderson. John Lennon and Arlo Guthrie. A The lead off film for this column is not a ll::lo on 28 with Walter Brennan an intended wildly across the stage, leaping high with band to watch. movie but another Hallmark Hall of Fame murder victim apparently from his wife. Pat•h lTUcial note. Howe smiled with quiet AI\ in all. this was certainly the best of the presentation featuring Orson Wells Wt>dnesday has Christopher George ("The confidence on stage right as he went through season. I for one hope Student Union's got ( Citizl'n Kml(', among others), Don Knotts Hnt Patrol" and "The Immortal") trying to his intricate paces with a number of dif-shows like this cooked up for next semester. and a fine supporting cast. "Til(' Man Wh(J prove himself innocent to Howard Duff in 
f;ame to Dinner'' is a 90 minute reremake of Till' lh•ist at 8:30 on 28. Watch the Hall of (;eorgc S. Kaufman's 1939 comedy hit Fame instead. And on Saturday Bette Davis 1Pnjoying a five year run l. The Hall of and Doug McClure co-star in The .Judge and Fame has rarely presneted a bad per­.lakt• w,·It>t' in which Davis has McClure and 
formance in the past, and with Wells in the others ·parolled from prison to do her bid­

l 
spotlight, this show should easily break up ding. The gates open at 9:00 on 16. 
l
the middle-of the-week blahs. The curtain rises tomorrow <Wednesday) at 8:30 on M~· apologies for giving out misinforP-Iation channel 16. concerning Patton's censorship. They did 
l
As I said before, the movies this week eut it four times; twice during the speech, leave a lot to be desired. On Friday, his reply to the chaplain in Sicily concerning Gregory Peck's usually strong performance his daily reading of the Bible, and the 
l
cannot save Til(' Chairman which has Peck shooting of the jack-asses blocking the 
j
sent to Red China and meeting Mao to cover bridge in Sicily. This last edit is very lor an important mission. Not only is the eurious since they can show men dying buy plot and escape far fetched (the Russians not a pair of mules being shot even though 
1
come to his aid in an indirect manner) but the slaughter of animals, most notably he walks around with a radio transmitter horses. for dog food is a daily occurance. surgically implanted behind his ear (of Enough comment. To make up for my eourse NBC's "Search" is even now playing mistake Uaken. incidentally from a usually on that ideal. Anyhow, the flick begins rt>liablt> suurcel the cut parts of Patton's transmitting at 9:00 on band 22. speech follow;· (I) "You know ... by God, I 
Three more usually durable actors are actually pity those poor bastards we're lost in a Weastern mish-mash entitled going up against; by God, I do. We're not Bandl'lero on 22 at 9:00 Thursday.. This just going to shoot the bastards; we're going oater has Dean Martin and James Stewart lo tear out their living guts and use them to playing bad guy brothers with Sheriff grease the treads of our tanks. We're going George Kennedy out to bring them in. to murder those lousy Hun bastards by the 
Hacquel Welsh (I do not put her on the same bushel!" and (2) "Now, there's one thinglevel as Stewart> is on hand to fall in love that you men will be able to say when youwith Martin and look seductive (since her get back home, and you may thank God for acting is up to her usual par--terrible), but it. Thirty years from now, when your sitting tht>n no one expects her to do anything else around your fireside with your grandson on 
anyway. Perhaps it is poetic justice that your knee, and he asks you, 'What did you do both Martin and Stewart get theirs in the during the great World War II', you won't end. have to say, 'Well...! shovelled shit in In Harm's Way has John Wayne, Kirk I.ouisiana." Douglas. and "an excellent supporting Trivia Quiz Name the six Warner cast" just before the attack on Pearl Harbor brothers westerns on ABC 1958 to 1960. · 
trying to resolve their lives. Despite an Chances are that if you name the show youimpressive setting, the film gets bogged can name the stars, so I will not list them down into too many sub-plots with not with the answer. 
<'nough action. But for those who might want to see John Wayne get beaten for a ehange, tune-in Sunday on the ABC movie at '(O!l.· Hl.i'l 
9:00 . ,!:;\) l{OJ, pm~ '((';9,-ll!:i,) "UIHU.\\e'l Jl\,1, 
Pn•ttv Poison is a variation on the Leob­'((';9,-ll!:i,) ..o;>UOJg, '( 19,-l.!:i,) .. lOOpe~ns, LPopold murder theme with Tuesday Weld ·'(<:9,-l.!:i,) ..lf;>!.l<lABW, '(£9,-!:;!:;,) ..;mUJAJl\J.. and everybody's favorite psycopathic : JaMsuv Z!nb BL\tJ,L 


..J 
Tuesday, November 28, 1972
the observer
6 

Course on dying and elderly will be offered 

A unique personal exploration of the issues surrounding aging, dying and the elderly will be available to Notre Dame-St. Mary's students that register for Tlwology and Community Service. 
During the spring semester, Theology 230 will focus on student volunteer work among the elderly in nu&·sing homes and private residences in South Bend. Taught by a four member team consistingof Fr. Don McNeill, Fr. Tom Stella, Fr. Roger Cormier, and Fr. Terrence Lally, the team hopes this personal as well as educational experience will allow students to investigate the many perspectives of aging and dying. The teachers believe that the £>lderly are "living human documents" that have experienced the realities of life and who can teach the students about the questions of life and death. 
The course will be structured n a way as to allow the students to describe. share, analyze, evaluate, and research in an in­terdisciplinary ways, their ex­periences with the elderly. By this approach, the teaching team . hopes that the students will derive the fullest measure of m<•aning from their relationships. 
Students will be required to visit 


Fr. Tom Stella: One of four teachers for Theology 230. 
weekly with elderly people in South Bend, most of whom will not be critically ill or close to death. Attendance at weekly Wednesday evening seminars and par­ticipation in two workshops will also be involved. At the end of the course, the student will write a comprenehsive case study, 
providing him the opportunity for a 
disciplined and creative reflection 
on the semester's experiences. 
According to Fr. McNeill, Tlwology and Community Service is concentrating on the elderly this upcoming semester for three reasons. He feels there is a definite 

European schools provide answer lor med students 
In an average year, ap­proximately 66 per cent of students applying to American Medical schools don't gain admission. The viable alternative for many is to enter an overseas medical school­a possibility which The European 
Medical  Students  Placement  
Service.  Inc.  can  help  make  a  
reality.  

A unique concept in educational placement, Euromed can aid and assist qualified American students in gaining admission to recognized overseas medical schools. Just as importantly, the Euromed 
program is designed to help the American student succeed there. 
Research has shown that the high rate of attrition (80-90 per cent l among non-national first­year students at European medical schools is attributable not to a lack of academic achievement, but to lack of comprehension of the language and culture of the country in which they're studying, and thus inability to compete ef­fectively with native students. 
To heip American students reach a high level of competitive 
capability, Euromed provides, in addidition to admissions aid, an 8­12 week. 200-300 hour intensive language orientation course, given in the country where the student will be attending medical school. 
Specifically structured for American students entering a European medical school, the course is mandatory and covers medical and academic ter­minology, as well as con­versational vocabulary in the local language. 

A series of informal individual ~ and group cultural orientation ~ conferences supplement ·the language-learning part of the Euromed program. To help in­coming students adapt to this new academic and national life-style,
r 
I sessions are headed by senior Am£>rican medical students now
I 
attending school in the particular European country. 
In addition, Euromed maintains student counseling offices in every country in which the program is in pffect. Senior or graduate students 
attending  a  U.S.  university  are  
Pligible  to  participate  in  the  
Euromed program.  

Application forms and further information may be obtained by phoning, too free, (800) 645-1234. Or write, European Medical Students Placement Service, Inc., :l McKinley Ave., Albertson, N.Y. 11507. 

need for student visitation with the elderly of the community. In addition, with all the class members engaging in the same volunteer service, the "course can go into more theological and psychological depth." But most importantly, Fr. McNeill believes that "older persons have a lot of valuabel personal experiences and reflections they can share with the students." 
Seeing the course as "enabling students to raise the issues of aging and dying not only out of textbooks alone, but from experiences with the elderly," Fr. McNeill thinks it will letthe student come to a better personal understanding of the elderly and aging and dying. 
The teaching team members consider the course a group ex­ploration where people will learn from each other. The two workshops and weekly seminars are most important, permitting the students to focus and reflect on readings, films, and their own experiences with the elderly, and not just considering them as subjects to be studied outside a caring relationship. 
One of the workshops included in the course will be a special Lenten program, titled "Living and Dying.'' This will provide students an opportunity to share their viewpoints and experiences with grandparents, doctors, couples, and other members of the South Bend community. 
By expanding the student's contact with the elderly, Theology and Community Service seeks not m£>rely to fulfill a need for volunteer work among senior citizens but to emphasize the positive contribution which the £>lderly, through their wisdom, can provide to our beliefs concerning aging, suffering, dying, and death. 
P£>rsons interested in the course are asked to call 7394 or see Fr. Don McNeill in G-20 of the Library between 9:00 and 5:00 Wednesday, November 29. After Wednesday people may contact Mrs. Joan Devore (7385) concerning Theology 230. 
Giles and Burtchaell to discuss racism tonight in foru1n at 7p1D 
Racism, A Normal Part of Academe" is the discussion topic for Dr. Raymond Giles, head of the Afro-American Studies Depart­ment of Smith Unive~sity . in Massachusetts, and Umvers1ty Provost James T. Burtchaell at 
7: 00 tonight in the Library Auditorium. 
The forum is sponsored by the New Frontier Scholastic Society, and according to Ray Turner, forum chairman, Giles "will speak specifically on a paper entitled 'A separate Black Studies Program vs. Curriculum Reform in the Primary and Secondary Level in the United States."' 
"Fr. Burtchaell," Turner con· tinued, "will be responding and commenting... He may not be commenting on Raymond Giles' paper, but he may in fact, be discussing another area of the same topic." 
This program will include in­dividual presentations by both speakers on the theme of Racism. Afterwards, discussion will be opened up to the audience "for further elaboration, clarification, and amplification of certain points," stated Turner. Tim Whitters, senior, will moderate this particular program. 
The purpose of this forum, ex­plained Turner. is identical with that of the New Frontier Scholastic Society, which aims to "emphasize the study and discussion of the issues and the topics that lend themselves to increasing the capacity of black people to responsibly contribute to the social and political environment.. ..and to emphasize and focus upon ac­tivities regarding the operation of the Black Cultural Center." 
Turner described this forum as the "major project" of the NFSS this year. Several other projects are still in the planning states, he explained, and cited the forulation of this program as the main reason 
that  they  have  not  yet  
materialized.  
Another  problem  of  the  New  

Frontier Scholastic Society is financing, and this hinders projects. 
"The thing is," explained Turner, "that we aren't given very much money from Student Government. We were only given $400;-which means we can only communicate with cettain 
SMC art dep't plans spring field trips 
The Saint Mary's College Art DPpartment is planning two field !rips, one international and one national, in Jnauary, 1973. 
A trip to Munich will be con­ducted by J. James Paradis, Associate Professor of Art, Saint Mary's College. It is tentatively scheduled for January 5-13, 1973. The trip will include visits to museums and points of interest, with free time to take individual 
side  trips  to  ski  areas  and  
throughout  the  surrounding  
country.  

The Munich trip is open to the Michiana area's college and university students as well as the general public. Cost is $475.00, which includes round trip air transportation from, Chicago to Munich by way of Frankfurt or 

Berlin  and  first-class  hotel  ac­ 
commodations.  
James  Raymo,  Assistant  

Professor of Art, Saint Mary's College, will conduct a field trip to New Yor, January 22-29, 1973, for the purpose of visiting the out­standing galleries and museums in the city. 
Most of St. Mary's Art Depart­ment faculty will participate. It is open to the Michiana area's colle~e and university students. 
rban Studies Evening Thursday, November 30 7:00PM Room 103 O'Shaughnessy 
l. Work study for academic credit 
2. 
Urban studies seminar 

3. 
Urban studies double maior 


4: Urban studies certificate 
Cost is $175.00 , which includes chartered round trip bus tran­sportation from St. Mary's College to Chicago, round trip air tran­sportation from Chicago to New York, and hotel accommodations in New York. 
people ... We are therefore not 
allowed  to  have  guest  speakers  
who desire large fees."  
Different  forums  will  be  

presented throughout the year, concluded Turner, each con­cerning a different topic and in­volving a variety of speakers and moderators, chosen by the society, and open to the Notre Dame-South Bend Community. 
"KAMAAINA 
SENIORS For in­formation on jobs in Hawaii after graduation 
write:  Kamaaina  
Career  Opportunity  
Day,  Box  9668,  

Honolulu, HI 96820." 


in concert 
THURSDAY NOVEMBER 30 

7:30 pm Tickets: $4.50 (advance, $5.00 
door) Available at Morris Civic Box Office and Pandora's or call 8253. 
MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 
219 N. Michigan Ave. Downtown South Bend 232·6954 

Acareer in law ... 
WilhOUIIaW SChOOl. 
When you become a Lawyer's Assistant, 
you'll do work traditionally done by lawyers 
-work which is challenging, responsible 
and intellectually stimulating. Lawyer's 
Assistants are now so critically needed that 
The Institute for Paralegal Training can 
offer you a position in the city of your choice 
-and a higher starting salary than you'd 
expect as a recent college graduate. Here 
is a career as a professional with financial 
rewards that increase with your developing 
expertise. 
If you are a student of high academic 
standing and are interested in a legal 
career, come speak with our representative. 
Contact the Placement Office. A representative of The Institute will visit your campus on: 
TUESDA~DECEMBERS 
NOTE: If the above date is inconvenient for you. please call or write The Institute for information. 
The Institute for Paralegal Training 
13th floor, 401 Walnut St.. Phila., Pa. 19106 (215) WA 5-0905 

~---------------------------------­
Tuesday, November 28, 1972 the observer 
7 

----~-------------------------­
St. Mary's to get ACTION grant 
Dr. Edward L. Henry, President, Saint Mary's College, Notre Dame, announced last week . that AC­TION, of the Office of Public Af­fairs Washington, D.C., has awarded the College a planning grant to participate in the University Year for ACTION program with twenty-five student volunteers 
Saint Mary's College is one of 
only thirty colleges and univer­
sities throughout the country 
selected this year to plan this 
student volunteer program, and 
the only one from the state of In­
diana. 
University Year for ACTION 
<hereafter referred to as UYA), 
came into being in July, 1971, when 
President Richard Nixon formed 
ACTION by bringing together such international and domestic volunteer programs as the Peace Corps and VISTA. 
The planning grant will gather together faculty, students and administration of Saint Mary's College to discuss and plan specifics of the overall program. At this time, the departments involved are Psychology, Sociology, Education, and Political Science. Additional departments are expected to join this effort. 
This planning group will travel 
to other colleges and universities 
in the country, which have par­
ticipated in the UYA program 
during the last year, to study their 
on-going programs 
The College's planning com­
mittee will develop the student 
credit package and formalize the training for student and sponsor volunteers. 
This committee will also coor­dinate with those groups in the Michiana area that will participate with the College in the UYA program. In South Bend, La Raza and El Centro have already ac­cepted the invitation to join the College in this anti-poverty program. 
This program would give student volunteers a newer, more relevant educational experience by working with migrant agricultural workers in Spanish speaking communities of the Michiana area. These student volunteers would work in two groups, Education and Counseling, and Research and Communications. 
The twenty-five UYA volunteers 
from Saint Mary'_s will work in programs to improve the education and economic status of Spanish-speaking residents of St. Joseph county and parts of neigh­boring Elkhart, Marshall and Kosciusko counties. Bi-lingual volunteers will make education a part of day-care programs, provide guidance counseling to school children and teach drop­outs striving to pass the high school equivalency examination. Both in the urban and rural areas, the volunteers will help Spanish­speaking workers find and hold jobs and obtain information on such matters as unemployment insurance and free health care for their children. 
This is a one calendar year project. Each student volunteer participates on a full-time basis, without formalized classes. Each will be paid $180.00 per month, with free medical and dental care. Each will be considered a federal Pmployee. as well as a fully registered Saint Mary's College student. 
Dr. Eugene Campanale, Chairman of Saint Mary's College Education Department, represented the College in Washington, D.C. last week, at the UYA planning grant .conference. 
Dr. Campanale and represen­tatives from the other 29 colleges and universities awarded the grant, discussed ideas for projects, observed simulated experiences, and considered designs for the overall program development. 
Business positions will abound in Far East 
In the next five years the Far East should supass a Latin America in opportunities for in­ternational management positions. This-will result from a rapidly 
changing attitude and relationship between the U.S. and Far Eastern nations, Dr. William Voris, president of the Thunderbird School of International Management, told a group of visiting editors at a press tour of the school located here. 
According to Dr. Voris, the greatest opportunities in iner­national business management are currently in Europe and Latin America. "Europe will continue to be a bright spot for the American businessman. Latin America's 
Students will get 
aid finding jobs 
for the summer 
The Placement Bureau and the Notre Dame Alumni Clubs are acting now to find summer jobs for ND students. The program has the various Alumni clubs around the country trying to find jobs for students in those areas. 
Mr. James Cooney, Executive SPcretary of the Alumni Association, introduced the program to the Alumni Senate last wPek. His main purpose was to make the alumni aware of the its potential for helping the students and the grave situation which faces job hunting students. Cooney Pxplained how the system would make excellent use of the facilities of the Placement Bureau and the strong Alumni Clubs connected with Notre Dame. 
Switching to a students viewpoint, Cooney mentioned how hard it is for a Notre Dame students to line up a summer job because many of them are away from home for a major portion of the year. He also pointed out that 54 per cent of the students receive some kind of financial aid and for some a summer job is a necessity for continuing school in the fall. He felt that the program would provide contact between students and alumni which makes for good relations. 
There were 450 responses by students to the program. The applicants are equally distributed geographically and hence represent a realistic gd'al for the active alumni clubs. So far the Bureau has received favorable reactions from clubs in New Orleans, Florida, Pittsburgh, ('ieveland, New York City, and Hochester N. Y. 
l!ttitilliJ I~~ I:[t11'1 J!!'!l] if.i 
Ask any CPA about 

Becker CPA Review Course 
INDIANAPOLIS (317) 547-9971 
positions will decline due primarily to political problems while U.S. commercial activities in the Far East will expand 
rapidly," he said. 
Oil, earthmoving equipment and computers are among the in­dustries with greatest overseas growth potential for American business in the forseeable future, Dr. Voris believes. He cited the 
rapidly dwingling U.S. oil supply as a factor demanding negotiations of new business arrangements with Arab nationals. This situation calls for international executives who are sensitive to the problems, customs and attitudes of the people of these countries. 
Earthmoving equipment is one 
area of durable goods which Dr. 
Voris sees as having tremendous 
international growth potential for 
U.S. based firms. The desire of nations throughout the world to develop road systems equal to those of this country and Germany, will spur trading of earthmoving equipment substantially over the next ten years. "And the U.S. is the only country currently capable of supplying the need", he noted. 
Demands for computers and related software--another area in which this country has the greatest capabilities to offer--are also <'Xpected by Dr. Voris to increase at a steady rate. The opportunities for international management positions in this field are already good and improving steadily, he asserted. 
Assessing the present role of international management, Dr. Voris said "In today's major business organizations the in­ternational executive may be gone from the home office, but by no means is he forgotten". He stated that the American executive whose career has taken him to such far off spots as Brussels, Singapore or Sydney now often stands as good a chance of rising t(\ the top of his organization as does his domestically-based counterpart. 
"Not too long ago, an overseas assignment was regarded as an 
--~--------------~-------, 
SALE 
BEST SELLING 
RECORD HITS 
ALBUMS WITH SUGGESTED LIST PRICE VALUES TO $11.98 NOW ALL RECORDS ONLY 
*Famous artists 200 Take advantage 
*Music for every age  of these fabulous prices.  
*Big selection  
JERRY LEE LEWIS  BOBBY SHERMAN  
FIFTH DIMENSION  ELVIS PRESLEY  
MERLE HAGGARD  JOHNNY CASH  
STEPPENWOLF  THE LETTERMEN  
THE HAMMES  

NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
_......... •
-~----­


Pxile, both by the exeuctive designated for the foreign spot and by his company. Today however, that situation has practically reversed itself," Dr. Voris said. 
"In today's mutli-national com­pany", he explained, "an overseas assignment is virtually an ac­colade for an executive's ability rather than a covert punishment for shoddy performance." 
The general status of the in­ternational executive is definitely on the rise and is reflected in the recent elevation of international division executives to the presidencies of Chase Manhattan Bank, National Cash Register Company and Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company, he indicated. 
The Thunderbird Graduate School of International Management--headed by Dr. Voris 
~ 
I 
since 1971--is unique in the realm of higher education. It is the only school founded for the sole ob­jective of providing effective, intensive study programs that will prepare students for careers abroad. 
Thunderbird's curriculum ef­fectively blends the academic with the practical. A student preparing for a career abroad will not only receive intensive training in a pertinent foreign language, but will also gain, through required courses, a firm understanding of the area's culture, its geography, 
history, and its current political and social climate. The school's department of world business offers the latest and best in education, international finance, Pconomics, marketing and management. 
•-t! j 
~· -, 
• 
• 


----~----------~---------------------­
Irish look to USC 
•

after Miami w1n 
by Jim Donaldson Trojans' perfect season, just as Sports Editor 
USC has done to Notre Dame the When a well aimed snowball past two years. 
tossed by a would-be quarterback Fran Curci's Miami Hurricanes seated in the south end of Notre almost garnered their own upset Dame Stadium arrived in the victory in the Irish home finale on hands of Brian Doherty <who holds the Hith. The 'Canes gained 309 for the extra point attempts of vards to Notre Dame's 240 and ran Irish placekicker Bob Thomas) at 79 plays to 119 for the Irish but came 
the same time as the ball snapped up just short on the scoreboard. by center Joe Alvarado a week ago Notr(' Dame, persisting in its Saturday, Doherty was more than irritating habit of giving away the a bit disconcerted. He fumbled the football. lost three fumbles and ball and was unable to run into the had a pass intercepted. Miami was end zone after making the hardlv reluctant to use the Irish recovery, preventing the Irish miscues to its advantage. Notre from addiqg to their 13--3 second DamP. showing a callous disdain 
quarter lead over the Miami <Fla.) for the merits of ball possession, llurricanes. has lost 20 fumbles this fall. 
It didn't seem like a very im­Th(' Hurricanes were the first to portant play at the time, as Notre g<'t on the scoreboard, thanks to an Dame appeared to be in control of Irish Prror. Tom Clements' 
~\'illit• Tnwn.~PJIIO 
Hurricanes Nov. lRth. 

the game, but, when the owrthrown pass to Willie Town­Hurricanes suddenly stormed back send was intercepted by Gary from a 20--3 deficit in the fourth Streichf'r. who returned the ball to
Punchless icers drop 3 0 f 4 
quarter, closing to within 20--17, thP 22. SPven plays later, Miami bv .lim Donaldson shut off the Gophers for the rest of first period of Friday night's the frosty frolics of the miscreant sC'ttled for a 27--yard field goal by · spm·ts Editor the period. gamr. including a pair of power in the stands were seen in a new Rurke. Bumbacco. one of only three play goals. Mark Steinborn drilled light. ClPments, showing the poise that 
Apparently not content merely Irish skaters <along with Paul a :lO-footer past Denver goalie Ron Thr Irish needed the victory in has made him one of the top young with losing, as they had done twice Hrgan and Ian Williams) who is Grahame at the outset of the order to insure themselves a spot quart('rbacks in the nation, at l){•nver. November 17 and 18, abl(' to consistently score, made it second peiod but the Pioneers in th(' Orange Bowl on New Year's brought the Irish right back, Notr(' Dame's hockey team a2-1gamewithag'oalat 1:56ofthe r('gained the momentum with a night and, had Mike Burke's 46-tossing several key completions to st•emPd drtermined to embarrass second stanza but the Gophers put power play goal by Rob Palmer, ~·ard fi('ld goal attempt with 2:35 Townsend in a 90--yard scoring itsPlf last weekend at the ACC the gam(' out of reach with three his third score of the game, and rPmaining been slightly more to drive that put Notre Dame in front. against last place Minnesota. markers later in the period, Cal John P('arson's shorthanded tally thP )('ft, Notre Dame would have Thr sophomore field general 
Skating lackadaisically, passing Cossalter scoring twice and Les insured Notre Dame of its first addrd an unwanted legend to its capped the march by lofting a 10-­eardcssly. playing poor position Auge contributing a power play WCHA loss. glorious football tradition --that of yard pass to Townsend in the end hoe key. attacking without tally. The Irish played well in the th(' team that was kept out of the zone. Thomas, who has yet to miss aggressiveness, often failing to dambucci scored again in the second game, outshooting the Orange Bowl by a snowball. a PAT this season, made it 7--3 for('check effectively and giving final period and Cossalter com-Pioneers 34-31, but were unable to But neither rowdy fans nor the with 4:16 to play in the quarter. goalie Mark Kronholm !llinim~l pleted a hat trick at 16: :55 to get the puck by Grahame often PV£>n more disturbing scrambling A Miami fumble on the ensuing d('fensive support, the Irish spht complete the rout as the Irish enough to win. . . of Ed Carney, Miami's quar-kickoff gave the ball right back to an ('ight-point series with the showed no inclination to stage a After a scoreless first pewd, t('rback, prevented the Irish from the Irish on the 'Canes' 32 and, five Gophers. Only the outstanding comeback. Palmer put Denver in front with winning for the eighth time in nine plays later, Notre Dame had play of Kronholm and a late_ rally Notre Dame played better less than two minutes left in the Saturdays and, later that night, brought it into the end zone again. sav('d a little-deserved 3-2 VIctory hockey at Denver but had less to second peiod, scoring on a power accepting "with great pleasure" Andy Huff, the hard-nosed for Notre Dame Friday night and, show for it, dropping the first game play goal. Ed Hays and Doug an offer from the Orange Bowl fullback, deserved most of the on Saturday, Minnesota humbled of the four-point series, 5-1, and the Gibson added goals in the final 20 Committee to meet Nebraska in credit. catching a 17--yard pass, the supposedly more talented hard-fought second game, 3-1. minutes before Williams saved the the annual Miami shindig. running for 12 yards to give the Irish. 7-1. The Pioneers blitzed the Irish Irish from the ignominy of a More important business looms lrish a first down on the one, and 
The Gophers had only a tie with with a three-goal outburst in the shutout with a score at 16:37. in Notre Dame's immediate then hulling over from there for the Michigan State to boast of in their A • f future, however. Coach Ara score. The infamous snowball first four WCHA outings but the u55 I e c a 9er5 ea c r 0 w Parseghian still has hopes of ad­
('pisode look place after Huff's six­way that they outskated and ding another national cham-pointer, but few among the 59,075 outhustled the Irish showed that Australia's National Basketball completely out of hand. pionshi~ bauble to the schJol_'s chilly patrons were overly con­W('ren't satisfied with their early Team brought an impressive past But Linde's accuracy couldn't bu~ge_onmg. trophy case an I~ cernPd about the incident. 
Notre Dame went 48 yards for its performances. Notre Dame, on into last night's exhibition· game erase ND's dominance on the of-pomtmg, his club_ toward thts third touchdown with 3:07 left inthe contrary • hardly deemed with Notre Dame's Fighting Irish. fensive and defensive boards and \\'('ekend s game with the n~mb~r 
the third quarter, Clements
Minnesota worthy of con-The current Aussie team--the the Irish, who led 26-10 with 'u:54 one. rank~d Southern Cahforma carrying the ball over from a yardsideration. The Gophers were, Adelaide Crow Eaters--had remaining, ballooned their lead to Tro,1a~s m Los Angeles. ~ot~e out and Thomas adding the con­after all. in the WCHA cellar while reached the finals of the national li0-17 at the two-minute mark. Da':le s c~rrent fo_otball g~mus_ m 
the Irish were a highly rated club. residence 1s countmg on vtctories version to make it 20--3. 
As it turned out, it was Minnesota championships 18 times during the Notre Dame took a 62-21lead into over U .S.C. and the Cornhuskers to And when Mike Townsend, that made Notre Dame look like a past 20 years, and had captured the the locker room at half-time, but put the Irish on top of the polls. Willie's brother, grabbed his Australian crown in nine of those Phelps' c~ew. was unable to con-Nebraska, national champions 
Pighth interception of the yearlast place team. appearances. And the Crow tinue th~Ir first-half hot streak. th(' past two years, has been shortly thereafter, returning it to 
Kronholm, a three-time all-Eaters' roster was loaded with The. NatiOnals outscor~d ND 42-26 reduced to vulnerability this fall, th(' Miami 27, thoughts turned Minnesota choice while tending world-competition experience. duri~_g the second periOd: and by having lost two games and tied to 
warm cars and the sunny skies of goal for South St. Paul High, did as Coach Alan Dawe represented the the I mal b!lzzer, had whittled. an another. But the Trojans, with the (<'lorida around Orange Bowl time. 
fine a job in the Irish net Friday as Aussies in the 1960 Rome Olym-Pmbarrassmgly large score mto likes of Charles Young, Pete Instead, the Hurricanes mad( anv Notre Dame goalie, including pies, guard Glen Marsland played the respectable 88-63 spread. Adams, Edesel Garrison, Mike things hot for the Irish. Gar)the recently graduated Dick this past summer in Munich and Linde continued his hot shooting Hac. John Grant. Lynn Swann and Diminick fumbled the ball awayTomasoni,whooftenhadaflairfor center Mike Dancis competed in duringthe second half, but Laurie Sam "Bam" Cum1ingham, have his second bobble of the game, witl the fantastic save, has ever done. Tokyo and Mexico City. llarcus (6-4) also found the range. polished off ten opponents with nine seconds left in the quarter an< lit' was virtually on his own in the But despite their heritage--and Barcus scored ten points overall Pase. including such notables as the Miami Hurricanes launched it~ 
first period but, time and again, their e.xperience-laden roster--the lfiv(' during the second half) and Arkansas, Stanford, Washington eomeback bid. 
frustrated the Gophers with visiting Crow Eaters received little led the Aussie rebounders with and UCLA. Such an array of It took Miami a little over three 
spectacular stops. He ended the respect in their match-up with the eight. talented personnel, coached by and a half minutes of the final 
session with 16 and added nine Irish. Due to an airline scheduling The Nationals mounted their John McKay, may turn Notre quarter to score its first touch­more in the second period, during mixup, the Australians were comeback during an eight-minute Dam(''s "California Dreamin' " 
down. as Carney's accurate 
which Eddie Bumbacco put the n('arly two hours late for the eight stretch of the final period's last into a nightmare but, at present, passing and nifty scrambling gave 
Irish in front with a shot from the o'clock game, and ND coach ten minutes, and during that time the Irish are only thinking about the Irish defense fits. Carney, a slot at 9::l5. Digger Phelps had his charges fill they ran off 27 unanswered points. upset possibilities and spoiling the sophomore like Clements, flipped aIt took a fluke play for the the dead space by presenting A free throw by John Shumate 
12--yard pass to Walt Sweeting to 
(;ophC'rs to put one by Kronholm. dunking exhibitions and slick-gave the Irish a 'so-point lead (86­put the 'Canes back in contention. 
Dick Spannbauer's shot from the passing warm-up drills. And when-:llil with 8:3 to play, and Notre Looking more like Fran
Orange Bowl
point went off an Irish defenseman -at 9:45--the game finally started, DamP didn't score again until Tarkcnton than a man who had in front of the cage and d('flected the evening's entertainment had Chris Stevens canned a jumper started the season as a third-string
p;1st Kronholm into the net. Just only just begun. with 29 seconds remaining. fix on sale quarterback, Carney led 
the 
over a minute later Minnesota The Aussies posted a 2-0 lead Shunate's 26 points C<ll of 15 'C'an('s li6 yards to another touch· movPd in front on a 40-foot blast by following forward Mark Lamp-from the field) paced the Irish, and Student tickets for the Orange 
down the· next time they hac 
l{ohbie Harris. shire's layup from thP. tipoff, but the 6-9 suphmore was followed by Bowl game January 1 will go on poss('ssion. Time and again.
At that juncture, the Irish put after that the first half belonged Gary Brokaw (15), Gary Novak sale next week, according to ticket Carnev skittered around and togefh('r the only minutes of good strictly to the Irish. Three straight (131 and Crotty (11). Shumate was manager Don Bouffard. through the harried Irish defense hockPV they were to turn in all baskets by 6-8 center Pete Crotty also the team's leading rebounder There are 1000 student tickets and he scored on a one yard burst wPPkend. Larry Israelson Pased ND into a lead it never lost, l !21. available and, because of the great with :l::lO left to play. · whipped in the tying tally at 14:19 and Gary Novak, Dwight Clay, and Proceeds from last night's game demand, no student may purchase The Irish were unable to and .John Noble netted the game-John Shumate followed with will go toward raising medical more than one ticket. There will be maintain possession after the winn('r at 16:48, firing home his buckets which put the game vir-Pxpenses· which Doug Gemmellast no student discount. kickoff. Mike Barnes recovering a own rebound from the slot. tually out of reach for the season's captain--elect has Clemmts fumble at the N.D. 35, 
I 
Any tickets bought have to be Rather than jarring Notre Dame Nationals. amassed. Gemmell had his right used by Notre Dame students. but the defensive unit came to the out of its complacency, the narrow Phelps' squad employed ad-lPg amputatep below the knee a Both the ticket and student iden­rescue. limiting Carney to one victory only made the Irish more vantages of height and quickness month ago following a motorcycle tification card must be presented short eompletion in three passes. casual. The Gophers, however, throughout the first half, and accident during the summer of to gain admission to the Orange Burke was forced t.o try for the 
cam<' out hustling and romped to showed the Australians a pressing 1971, and he hasspentseven of the Bowl. tying field goal from the 36. He 
I ~ victory. trapping defense which forced 12 last 15 months hospitalized, in-fail('d, and the Irish hung on to
Tickets may be obtained ac;!­
I • Wasting no time, Minnesota took first half turnovers and whihc eluding nine weeks in isolation. secure their victory and bowl
cording to the following schedule:
a 1-0 )pad just 15 seconds after the guard Werner Linde alone could ND's cagers will open their berth.
seniors, Tues., Dec. 5; juniors,
opPning faceoff on a drive from the crack. Linde, a six footer from regular season this weekend with a So now it's on to Southern
graduate and law students, Dec. 6;
right side by Jim Gambucci and West Adelaide, scored ten of his D('cember 2 (2:00pm) game at California, where Notre Dame will 
sophs, Dec. 7; frosh, Dec. 8. 
l 
was never headed. Doug Falls twenty-six points during the first Michigan, and will return home on be safe from snowballs, although it added a power play goal at 2:08 but half, and it was his shooting which D('cember 4 to face Ohio State's Box office hours are from 9 a.m. has been known to rain heavily in Kronholm, again tough in the nets, kept the game from getting Ruckeyes. to 5 p.m., including the noon hour . Los Angeles on occasion. 
• 





