On The Inside 
Hunt elected Senior oresident 
... page 3 
Drugs on the increase ... page 4 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Monday, May 1, 1972 
Vol. VI, No. 120 
Affirms college identity 
Henry outlines SMC goals 
by Ann Therese Darin Campus Editor 
Edward Henry, president-elect of St. Mary's College, detailed plans for the school's future Friday afternoon. 
While re-affirming the college's identity as a relatively small, Catholic, liberal arts college for women, he outlined eight goals for the college's im­mediate future ranging from the inclusion of more laywomen and men on the Board of Trustees to developing exchange programs with other colleges, inner-city programs, and internships. 
Addressing an all-school convocation of scarcely 100 students and faculty, the new president committed the college to: 
--implementation of tri-partite community govern­ment for communication and decision making; --expansion of off campus opportunities of exchange programs, internships, and inner-city work; --examination of curriculum, the calendar, existing and new majors; 
--active solicitation of foundation and government 
assistance, as well as alumnae financial support by the 
reconstituted development office. 
In his speech, Henry also described new efforts to expand the student body with enrollment of mature women beyond the age of normal college students and more minority students, appoint more laywomen and men with occupations as Trustees -and adopt college programs to society's needs. 
Prior to his speech, the new president confirmed he 
will name the new vice-president for academic affairs 
within the next few weeks. 
During the 45-minute talk, Henry centered his 
remarks on the concept of St. Mary's as a woman's 
college. "I believe St. Mary's College can make an 
excellent case for itself as a small liberal arts college, 
without arguing its feminine character. It is far from 
being an exclusively women's college of course," he 
asserted. "exceptthatit has not given degrees to men it 
has involved men students in its classroom. And until 
last year, in anticipation of merger, it has had 
proportionately more credits hours taken by men 
studentsattending class here than women at Notre 
Dame. Socially it also has many of theaspectsof a coed 
situation.'' 
He would not agree with N.D. Board of Trustee 
chairman Edmund Stepan's analysis that SMC will 
eventually merge with Notre Dame in two or three 
years. Commenting on Stepan's remarks made last 
week at a Universal Notre Dame Night dinner in South Bend, Henry emphasized St. Mary's must first create and strengthen a separate identity of her own before any unification proceedings would continue. 

The merger negotiation teams have not yet disbanded, the president-elect added. He hopes that they will be the basis of continued academic and ad­ministrative cooperation between the two schools. But, Henry emphasized the need for St. Mary's to maintain its feminine character. 
In exclusively women's colleges, "They (the women) are treated as equals both in the classroom and in extra-curriculars. While America is well on the road to a long delayed equality of treatment, it has not yet arrived there. In the interim, experienced educators in women's colleges express grave reser­vations about the ability of coed campuses to provide this equality. Now, where chauvinism does not surface, supercilliousness may .... One is tempted to ask, will it take a generation or two to eliminate 'tokenism"'? 
Defending his views, the new president cited several prestigious women's such as Mt. Holyoke, Chatam, Barnard, Wellesley, Wilson, and St. Benedict's which have reaffirmed intentions to restrict enrollment to women. He also quoted a 1970 study on the un­dergraduate origins of women listed in Who's Who of American Women. Graduates of women's colleges receive career recognition approximately 2.3 times more than coed graduates. 
·"There can little doubt in my mind that by their very nature women's colleges are freer than coeducational schools to seek and develop new teaching techniques, new courses, new educational and living arrangements--that are of particular value to women students," said Henry. "In such colleges women's consciousness can be maximized and women given more of a chance in a crucial formative period of their lives to free themselves from the distortions a male­oriented society has induced in many aspects of life, including education." 
However, Henry also noted St. Mary's interactions with other institutions prevents isolation, usually associated with women's campuses. "Notre Dame men will continue to attend class here and St. Mary's women there," he reassured. "Consortia relationships with still other colleges will be explored--not only for an exchange of teachers, but of students. We hope that off campus semesters at other colleges--through in­ternships, and inner-city community arrangements-­will inject a new variety of relationships with other students. Male and female, white, and black." 
Earlier in the day, Henry acknowledged he is 
Nixon preparing to increase offshore oil 
quarters. notably some of his own possible market and to minimize Despite the security and of the Treasury, suggested a few
(c) 1972 New York Times stan and the treasury. to make no the impact of oil on the national financial arguments against off­days ago to deal with suchincrease in imports of canadian
To alleviate the country's in­trade deficit. shore oil, administration officials problems "perhaps some in­
crude oil, which come under a
tensifying shortage of fuels, the Eisenhower program have acknowledged that imports ternational institutional 
Nixon administration is preparing separate quota, now set at 540,000 The program of mandatory will continue to rise--of necessity. arrangements may be needed."
barrels a day.

to make a substantial increase in imports was imposed by president But sources close to the White By that phrase, informed
These advisers argue that it is
the import quota for offshore crude Eisenhower in 1959. He said that House say there is no thought of sources said, the Secretary was
time to get tough with Canada to
oil. encouraging domestic production scrapping the quota system referring to price, investment and 
make Ottawa soften its position in altogether.
The present quota for shipments and exploration was in the interest monetary aspects of the oil
the stalled trade negotiations with
to markets east of the Rocky of national security. situation. Although Connally, when 
Washihgton. Economic
Mountains. 750,000 barrels a day, That argument was challenged asked by a reporter, rejected the
Canada is certain to resent such
may be jncreased by as much as last Thursday in a suit intended to phrase "buyers cartel," the fact is 
a move as blatant arm-twisting, For a country that historically
250,000 barrels, although a invalidate the quotas as unlawful. has enjoyed abundant, cheap that Washington is looking for a
according to diplomatic sources.
somewhat lower figure is con­The governors of the six New way it can get together with the
Accordingly, the most likely result domestic sources of energy, the
si!Jered more likely. The England states and two consumer other industrial powers to coun­
is a small increase in Canada's trend toward imports--which may
president's oil policy committee organizations asserted in a tervail the power of the
quota. probably less than would be account for nearly half of all oil
discussed the matter last week and complaint filed in federal district used by 1985--has far-reaching organization of oil exporting
the case if relations were -not
presidential action is expected court in Portland. Me., that no political and economic im­countries to push up prices as it did 
strained by differences over
within 10 days. administration has actually in a concerted action in 1971.
modification of the Canadian­plications.
To keep up with demand for 
American auto trade agreement demonstrated the National John B. Connally, the Secretary
petroleum products, refiners Security case.
and other issues.

imported in the four weeks that They also argued that if national ended April 21 an average of Offshore oil security requires domestic oil nearly 1.5 million barrels of crude Letting in more offshore oil supplies. the use of offshore oil oil a day, or 618,000 barrels more continues to be distasteful to the should be maximized and domestic 
r~=~===~=:=~=~=;=;=;=;=====:==================================================================================:::::====~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=================================:;:~;=~=:
than a year earlier. Domestic administration, but it is seen as reserves should lw ('onsrr\'ed. 
~ ~
production was down by only necessary to satisfy the nation's ~ ~ 
143,000 barrels, to an average of raging energy appetite. Domestic oil ~:~: SLC elections :::: 8,545,000 barrels. Although Middle East oil is Government officials reply that t King Kersten announced last night that petitions will be acceptediiff
The refiners have been landed at Northweastern ports at without the incentive of domestic ::::from candidates from the SLC until Wednesday noon. The elections:;:;"borrowing" in effect, from the oil 
about $1.25 a barrel cheaper than production. exploration would stop :~:~ \1 ill he on Thursday. May 4. ~ithey will be allowed to import later Texas oil, the Nixon ad­and no new reserves would be :::: Tlw Obsen er is offering space to all ·candidates for the SLC. They:::.:
in the year, and they have been ministration. like the Eisenhower, found. The officials also contend :::: ~hould submit one page statements to The Observer by 3:00, Tuesday:~;~:telling the government that they Kennedy and Johnson ad­
that. if domestic wells were cap­;~:~ afternoon. ~l~ must have a higher quota to avoid ministrations, prefers to ration ped. it would not be possible in an 
~::::::::::::::::~:~:~:~:~:~:::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:~::8~:::::;:~:~:::;:;:~='­
a production cutback. imports for two reasons: to give emergency to resume production
Nixon is being advised by some domestic products the biggest quickly. 

Dr. Edward Henry, president-elect of St. Mary's, 
spoke before the student body, Friday afternoon, in 
0'-Laughlin Auditorium. 
already seriously considering one offer from an all­black college for an exchange program. He expects other offers in the near future. While Cardinal Cushing College, another school operated by the Sisters of the Holy Cross in Boston, will close this June, Henry hopes to utilize its facilities for SMC students wishing to studyin New England. 
The new president will meet with the president of Dunbarton College, the Sisters' College in Washington, D.C., soon hopefully to inaugurate an exchange program for second semester. 
(continued on pg. 6) 

the observer Monday, May 1, 1972
2 

Heroin smuggled throttgh Florida 
<cll!l72 New York Times that the heroin was refined in and dealing heroin are fading in War II fighter and bomber pilots, has set off a minor debate within Europe and brought into Miami on the face of the big money to be something to carry northward in the ~nxon Administration over Enterprising Frenchmen, South the Latin-American route. made. their largely empty planes: heroin permissible tactics in its Americans, Puerto Ricans, and And early in March, Marseilles Among those who have moved and cocaine. proclaimed "war" on narcotics. Cuban refugees are turning customs agents discovered a half into the trade, well-placed in­Since then. officials say, many Caramian. who traveled on a southern Florida into the premier ton of pure heroin--the largest formants say, are certain mem­others have moved into the Cor­"questionable" Uruguayan American entry point for seizure ever made--in the bilges of bers of the ill-fated assault Brigade sicans' business-Brazilians, passport, used a private Argen­smuggled heroin and cocaine. a shrimp boat that operated out of 2506, which landed at the Bay of Argentinians, Colombians, tine-registered Lockheed Lodestar 
Federal law enforcement of­Guadeloupe in the Caribbean. Pigs on April 17, 1961. Chileans, Uruguayans, to fly 156 pounds of heroin into ficials say the emerging Officials sayd the ship's French Trained by the Central In­Panamanians, and others. Miami. The contraband was prominence of Southern Florida in captain had moved heroin in the telligence Agency, defeated on the The Narcotics Bureau maintains sequestered in a false panel in the hard-drug trafficking reflects the past from Marseilles to Miami. Cuban Beaches, ransomed by the that a major figure in the South rear section of the plane. increasing use of South America as The attractions of Miami for the United States government, a few of American Heroin trade is Auguste While Caramian 's plane landed a stopover ami dispersal point for hard-drug smuggler are many. the anti-Castro exiles moved into Joseph Ricord, a 61-year-old at Miami lnternational Airport and European-refined heroin, the There are some 280,000 Cuban smuggling fellow Cubans out of French born former Gestapo cleared customs formalities, other growing popularity of South refugees in·Southern Florida, most Cuba in small craft, for a price, agent, whom it has been trying airborne smugglers, after making American-grown cocaine in the of them in Miami--a city so until this became too risky. unsuccessfully to extradite from short hops up through South United States and an infusion of Latinized that some stores post Paraguay. Ricord was indicted in America and across the Carib­new Latin elements in the high­signs saying "English spoken Like certain Corsicans who New York two years ago after the bean. prefer to land at one of the 60 profit, high-risk business. here." In this milieu, it is easy for served in the French Maquis in arrest of five alleged associates small airfields that are scattered 
They also say that stepped-up Latin Drug smugglers, Cuban and World War II, some of these and the seizure of 97 pounds of over Southern Florida south of law enforcement efforts in New non-Cuban, to remain relatively Cubans drifted naturally into drug Heroin. Lake Okeechobee. Many have no York--traditionally the major inconspicuous. trafficking, putting to profitable In February, a voiding the record control towers or customs entry point--have encouraged the Cuban~ have traditionally been use their newly learned guerrilla situation, the Narcotics Bureau procedures and some are not expansion of the Southern Florida involved in Cu<:aine smuggling. In techniques. and the Bureau of Customs paved. route. other still-used entryways Batista's Cube;, the rich snorted Bureau of Narcotics and arranged for the summary Customs officials say that one to the American addict market are cocaine, while the poor smoked Dangerous drugs intelligence departation of Hovsep Chambian smuggling team used two identical Montreal, Mexico and the Marijuana. The many rich Cuban~ indicates that in the late 1950's a Caramian, a convicted Argen­twin-engined planes. One would California coast. who fled Castro's Cuba brought number of Corsican heroin traf­tinian heroin smuggler from take off from a customs-free 
In January, federal agents here their acquired tastes with them. fickers settled in South America Bolivia in a United States Air domestic airport and then land at a
f made the largest heroin seizure in "Some Cubans think that the and, by the early 1960's had Force C-130 transport. Caramian larger airport as if it had just orne 
i the history of American anti­cocaine is like the violation of the established ties with soldier-for­had jumped $100,000 bail on the day in from Latin America. The second smuggling efforts-385 pounds ·and tax," commented one Cuban fortune pilots who had for more his case went to the jury here. plane, coming in off the caribbean arrested two Cubans, five Puerto journalist. "But the heroin is a than a decade smuggled scarce The high-handed removal of loaded with heroin, would land at Ricans and an Argentinian. The vice." American consumer goods south­Caramian from Bolivia, whose the first aiport as if it had been off Bureau of Narcotics and Yet there are indications, of­wards. government reportedly consented on a domestic jaunt. 
Dangerous Drugs is reticent about ficials say, that orne Cubans' The Corsicans gave the pilots, to the move in exchange for a 
details, but it does but it does say moral inhibitions about smuggling many of them American World shipment of American revolvers, 
r 
! r 
McGovern. HHH concentrate campaign in cities 
The two major democratic returning to Ohio in the evening. The polls will be open from 6:30 candidates in the. presidential Jackson, who has campaigned a.m. to 6:30p.m. and the counting primary here next Tuesday heavily here without much suc­of paper ballots is expected to be caromed around Ohio today in a cess, plans to go back to extremely slow. The Democratic last weekend effort to woo the Washington for a Senate vote voters will vote for delegate slates electorate. tomorrow and will return to Ohio on three separate ballots that if 
Sen. George McGovern of South on primary day. laid end to end would stretch for Dakota, continuing his attack on some nine feet. the intensified fighting in Vietnam, President Nixon is the only delivered a strong antiwar speech While McGovern and Humphrey Hepublican entered in that party's in Columbus before traveling on to stumped the state, their workers primary and the paper ballot engagements in Toledo and mounted large-scale, last-ditch carrying his name and delegates in 
Dayton. telephone and mailing efforts in only a yard long. 
Sen. Hubert H. Humphrey of their behalf. Meanwhile, it was learned that Minnesota visited three black The Humphrey people, for Gov. John J. Gilligan, a strong churches in Cleveland, marched in example, said they were supporter of Sen. Edmund S. 
a parade aimed at showing distributing two million sample Muskie of Maine who withdrew solidarity with Soviet Jewry, then ballots to help voters find their way from the primary races last week, went to Indianapolis for an Ox to the Senator's delegate slate on has decided to stick to his decision, roast before returning to a dinner the long, complicated form. despite intense pressure, to in Youngstown. Ted W. Brown, the Ohio pressure, to refrain from any 
The third active democratic Secretary of State, predicted that endorsement of another democrat. candidate, Sen. Henry M. Jackson almost 2.4 million voters would go Gilligan, it was understood, will of Washington, spent most of his to the polls on Tuesday in what he also not make any last-minute day in Washington, D.C., before described as a record turnout. appeals favoring the Muskie 
Texas dinner sparks Connally speculation for Vice-President 
host, the identity of the guest of .Inevitably. the meeting here 

by Robert B. Semple Jr. honor. the influence of those in­tonight will fuel speculation that 
(cl 1!172 New York Times vited. and the fact that the host Connally will, in time, ·wmd up as 
found himself required to install the No. 2 man on the Republican

Floresville, Texas. April :10-­lights on his landing strip to ac­ticket with President Nixon. But President Nixon arrived here comodate the private aircraft of there is probably no more sub­tonight to share beef tenderloin some of his guests. stance to this speculation now than 
and black-eye peas with John B. Both Connally and the White there was when it began with Connally and 200 powerful Texans, House have said that the Secretary Connally's arrival in the cabinet most of whom have been vital to of the Treasury long ago invited some 16 months ago.
the Treasury Secretary's political Nixon and his wife to drop by the The President has said publicly past and many of whom might be ranch. and that the President 
that Vice-President Spiro Agnewpersuaded to be useful to the came today because he found the remains his first choice for the President's political future. 

timing convenient. second spot on the ticket, and the In what amounted to a lengthy Yet the dinner was heavily most Connally has said is that he 
but carefully planned detour on his freighted with political overtones, will defend the administration's 
way to Washington from his and even the most loyal member of economic policies--most of which vacation retreat at Key Biscayne, the President's entourage could he helped draft--in the coming
Fla., Nixon took a brief tour of not deny these overtones without a campaign.
Connally's 3,500-acre Picosa smile. 
Ranch and shook hands with prominent Republicans and Democrats. They had been invited to the spread for dinner, thus advertising in the most intimate way his political and philosophical ties with the man who is the only Democrat in his cabinet and certainly one of the most in­fluential Democrats in Texas. 
It was a simple little stand-up dinner under an enormous yellow­and-white striped tent on the Connally lawn, differing from others only in the identity of its 
Notre Dame -St. Mary's Theatre present:. 


SHOWBOAT 
A musical by Kern & Hammerstein II April 28, 29, May 4, 5, 6 
8:30 pm sharp 0 'Laughlin Auditorium 
Tickets $2.50, $2 for students, ND-SMC faculty
staff.  '  
Information and Reservations  at 284-4141,  284­ 
4176  

delegate slate, which remains on McGovern received a standingthe ballot. ovation when he concluded byThe Governor is also said to have saying that "faced with the choice 
rejected any post-election attempt between life and death, between to obtain a position among the blessing and curse, I hope America delegates going to the Democratic will cast its lot on the side of life. II convention next July in Miami Humphrey. at the first of three Beach. churches he visited this morning,In his speech at the Epworth joined the congregation in singingMethodist Church in a white, "Onward Christian Soldiers" at middle-class neighborhood of the St. Peter's A.M.E. Zion Church Columbus, McGovern said that in Cleveland. Then he told the 
because of the war ''there has been worshippers that his two favorite no vietnamization program for the disciples were Peter--because he American poor .11 was "impetuous" and a "regular
"It is not necessary to go to Asia guy~~--and John--because he was in to see the victims of Vietnam," he "idealist.II said. "One need only walk through The Minnesotan also cited a the streets of any slum in any city biblical passage that, he said, of the land. Every bomb that has comforted when he had lost an fallen on Southeast Asia has hit election: "He who would be first, 
some city here in America .11 let him be last." 

Singer General Tire 312 N. Lafayette Blvd. South Bend, Indiana 
Phone 233-9411 

ELTON JOHN 
WED. MAY 3 
R 30 in the Ace 
1 ,, ket Prices 
s~ so 
$2.75 
Tickets on sale at· 
ACC 9 5 
Union Ticket nffice 
11 15 12 ·15 J. 15 5: 15 
D•ninq Hall Sale Toniqht Tickets qoinq fast 
.. ~on1e qood seats still ilvailable 

Monday, May 1, 1972 the observer 


world briefs 
(cll912 New York Times 
Bio lecture 

The Nobel Prize-winning chemist who unraveled the structure of hemoglobin will be the Julius A. Nieuwland Lecturer at the University of Notre Dame, Monday throgh Friday, May 1-5. 
Dr. Max Perutz, chairman of the Laboratory of Molecular Biology in Cambridge, England, will deliver three lectures on "Cooperative Effects of Hemoglobin and the Problem of Allostery" at 4:30pm in room 123 of Nieuwland Science Hall. His talks will concern the detailed structure of hemoglobin, the chief oxygen carrier of red blood cells and the effect of certain metabolic regulatory moleculaes on this structure. Perutz will also discuss detailed structures of abnormal hemoglobins, for example the deformed protein present in sickle cell anemia. 
Perutz and his colleague J.C. Kandrew received the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1962 for developing techniques for solving the struc­ture of proteins. 
Newswriting award 
Ann Therese Darin, a junior at St. Mary's College, Notre Dame Indiana has been named winner of the fir'st-place award in the category "Best Newswriting Under Press of Deadline" from Region V of Sig!lla Delta ~i, a national journalism ~c1ety_. Writers for college and umvers1ty newspapers in Indiana, illinois, Wisconsin and Kentucky were eligible for the regional award. 
Are you a seeker of 
higher truth? 
ECKANAR -The An­
cient Science of Soul 
Travel presents a free 
introductory lecture at 
7: 30 pm on Tuesday May 2, at the Library Auditorium. 
LOW COST DEPENDABLE 
Flights to Europe 
More than 40 flights to choose from Call 259-9710 
Saigon--Residents and South Vietnames~ troops trapped in Kontum, a key city in South Vietnam's Central H1ghland~ en~1rcled_by Com­munist troops, were reported Sunday t_o be ~l~emg m pamc by th<: thousands. About 10,000 people, includmg m1htary ~eserters, were "aid to have been taken by plane or helicopter to Ple1ku--many after having reportedly paid bribery of $240 a person. 
Washington--A reliable source said that Richard W. _McLaren tol~ a subordinate at the Justice Department that he was gomg t~ the Wh1te House to discuss an impending international Tele~hon~ ~nd Telegraph Corp. acquisition. If true, it would demonstra(e White J:Ious~ m­volvement in a second I.T .T. antitrust case and would confl1ct w1th a statement by McLaren who is now a judge, that he never went to the White House to discuss a particular case. 
N£>w York--Rallies in New York, Chicago and some _90 other cities protesting Soviet oppression and imprisonment of Russ1~n Jews drew thousands of demonstrators. The largest rally was held m New Y~rk, where police said nearly_160,000 people j~mmed Dag Hammerskl~ld Plaza at the United NatiOns. One orgamzer called the turnout m­
credible," about 35,000had been expected, he said. 


Campus happenings ••• 
Ms. Darin earned the award for a series of articles on merger discussions between St. Mary's College and the University of Notre Dame. The award will be presented at a Sigma Delta Chi "Mark of Excellence" conference in Milwaukee on May 6. The winning series will be entered in a national competition sponsored by the society. 
Ms Darin is the campus news editor for The Observer, the daily student newspaper serving Notre Dame and St. Mary's. She is also the campus correspondent for the South Bend Tribune and Newsweek magazine. 
Ms. Darin has received an in­ternship to work this summer as a journalist in the federal govern­ment in Washington DC. 
Dead Sea scrolls 
Dr. Jacob Neusner, a noted historian of Judaism and a professor of religious studies at Brown University, will deliver the final lecture in the Dead Sea Scrolls series at the University of Notre Dame Monday, May 1 at 8 pm in the Memorial Library Auditorium. 
His topic will be "Judaism in a time of Trouble: Responses to the Destruction of Jerusalem in 70 AD," and the talk is open to the public. 
A native of Hartford, Conn., who was educated at Harvard, Oxford, and Columbia, Neusner has taught at Columbia, the University of Wisconsin at Milwaukee and Dartmouth College. 
His books include a five-volume "history of the .Tews in Babylonia" and a "Life of Johanan ben Zakkai," which treats a prominent figure in the Jewish reconstruction after 70 AD. His most recent work is a three-volume study of the early Pharisees. 
Neusner will also lead three seminars of a more specialized nature on points of Jewish law in the Qumran writings and rabbinic­phasisaic schools. 
His lecture is the fifth and final , one in a series commemorating the 25th anniversary of the finding of ancient Jewish writings in the vicinity of the Dead Sea. The talks were sponsored by Notre Dame's Department of Theology and organized by Dr. Joseph Blenkinsopp, director of biblical studies. 
Interested in learning more about Environmental Problems? 
Consider registering for 213: 
Man and His Environment 
Topics Include: population, water & waste water air pollution, noise pollution, environmental law. I 
1 
Sequence no. 770800 
L______ _ 
on campus today 
1: 15--lecture, dr joseph s hines, racial conflict in american society, 115 o'shag. 
7: 
00-mass'fr. griffin, in honor of our lady, grotto 

7: 
30--meeting, mecha. basement of Iafortune student center. 


8: 00--meeting, nd flying club, 120, o'shag. 
evening--tournament, campus­wide bridge tournament, flanner card room 
at notre dame-st. marys 


A Mass "honoring the First Lady of Christendom, the Queen of artists and painters, poets, and saints" will be held at the Grotto at 
7:00 pm tonight, Father Robert Griffin announced. This Mayday celebration of the Blessed Virgin will be said by Fr. Griffin, who ex­tends his invitation to members of both campuses. 
staff night editor: jim roe assistant night editor: carol weiss technical assistance: jim reilly 
lwad liner: marty miller day £>ditor: tom bornholdt tyJJists: rick smith, little joe, mark niederkorn 
-nite controller: hjs 

liNUtN-MllniY 


B•tt•r Idea• Make Better Car• 

'72 KACS · 73 ~
,
The Little Sexy European Car! ,

,
MERCURY 

,

CAPRI 

~ 
72 KACS. 84 
Capri 2-dr. Sport Coupe 
1 
COME SEE METRO ANQ_ASK ABOUT OUR SPECIAL PURCHASE PLAN FOR COllEGE GRADUATES 

L__ ui~P'JD 
.. Senior Class of­ficers of '72-72 line up in front of La Fortune Student Center. From left to right: Mike McCurdy (Treas.), Chris Mecca (sec'y), Steve Castellano CV-Pres), Jim Hunt (Pres.>. Each candidate carried over 35 percent of the votes caste in this high turn-out election. 
Grotto Mass 

r 
r 
f f 
~ 
r 
r 
, 
r 
the observer Monday, May 1, 1972 

US being flooded with Secobarbital capsules 
by Dana Admas Schmidt 
(c) 1972 New York Times 
Washington, April 30--John E. Ingersoll, director of the Bureau of Narcotics and dangerous drugs, has formed a special secobarbital force to track down a "gigantic" operation in the California-Mexico border area that he says is flooding the country with the drug. 
The red and red-orange secobarbital capsules known as "California reds," have turned up as far away as Boston, Ingersoll said in an interview yesterday, but appear to originate near the border. In the last 24 months bureau and customs officials have seized seven million such capsules and the Los Angeles Police Department two million. The Mexican Police arrested two persons at Sonora four months ago carrying more than three million were diverted from legitimate sources, Ingersoll said. To tighten up on· this activity he has asked 340 domestic drug manufacturers to supply detailed information on the manufacture, distribution and use of barbiturate products by the end of May and has added 140 com­pliance investogators to his staff to check the books of pharmaceutical manufacturers. 
He said that he had also asked doctors and lawyers connected with the Bureau of Narcotics and Dangersous Durgs to study the advisability of imposing controls on barbiturate distribution similar to those now applicable to nar­cotics. 
Ingersoll expressed fear that the flood of illicit "downers" would contribute to a new vogue for this type of drug as the availability of heroin decreases. Secobarbital is one of the fast-acting barbiturates whose effect can be similar to thatcapsules.

r of heroin. Although sometimes
''This suggests large-scale

r injected, this and other bar­
organized operations which must







Demo convention: bomb
r biturates are usually taken orally. 
. 
be identified and eliminated," he 
"Heroin enslaves," said
said. He disclosed that he was 

by Hobert Bt>ndiner the "required" category rather remedy. Challenging credentials is working closer with the Mexican Ingersoll, "but the barbs kill." 
(c) 1!172 New York Times than merely "urged." The state nothing new in the history of police in an effort to find the source What makes the barbiturates 
"killers," he said, is their

New York--When the democratic party is not specifically ordered to conventions, but up to now they of the capsules and powder. 
synergistic reaction with alcohol,party assembles in Miami Beach produce this perfectly balanced have involved a choice between Ingersoll believes he is on the meaning that their combined ef­in July, it is all too possible that it slate. Indeed, the commission's two contending slates, both track of the first known illicit fect is vastly greater than that of

will plunge into an ordeal worse report carries a footnoted "un­claiming legitimacy. In such cases laboratory designed for the than the primaries--which to derstanding" that the balance "is the credentials committee either manufacture of the so-called either taken separately. 
The Bureau's figures show that 1,445 Americans used barbiturates borrow a phrase from Lewis not to be accomplished by the chose one or the other or, Solomon "downers," or barbiturates, which 

Carroll, are turning out to be an mandatory imposition of quotas." like, seated both factions, allowing induce a dreamy slowdown of the 
each member a half-vote. But what to commit suicide in 1970 and that
agony in twenty-three fits. But since the state party may have central nervous system, as The basis for this cheery to prove, under challenge, that it is this year's committee, headed distinguished from the "uppers," another 183 died from accidental 
overdoses. A compilation by theprospect is the lively chance that has done everything possible to by Mrs. Patricia Harris, to do or amphetamines, which speed it Bureau showed that 17 percent ofzealots will be carried away by the achieve that balance, what when a delegation is challenged, up. 

1,900 persons arrested for seriousreforms devised by the McGovern­recourse has it but to let every say. for having too few Chicanos or Hitherto almost all "Uppers" crimes in six major cities wereFraser commission for making the slate-maker know that he is ex­a preponderance of male and all "downers in illicit trade barbiturate users.

party more democratic and more pected to have so many blacks, so chauvinists? 
representative than any political many women, so many youths, party has ever been before. Most of etc.? 
NY Tinll's News Analysis

these changes were long overdue and have evoked little or no op­Many state party chairmen have position, but some--unfortunately, done exactly that--but not always the most important--was vaguely with practical effect. Florida's conceived, ambiguously drawn up. chairman can show voluminous and loaded with potential mischief. evidence of his efforts, but not 


~ark, !Ve mode reservations
This time-bomb, which has enough to prevent women's groups already begun ticking, is the from challenging the end result. reform commission's injunction to Kenneth A. Bode, who served on the democratic state parties "to the McGovern-Fraser commission 
for afabulous river crtti\e." 
eliminate all vestiges of and now heads the center for discrimination," which is ad­political reform, is quoted as mirable, by invoking a concept having served notice that his group 
When you're going on vacation, dial direct and save when you caH 
that is not. They are to take af­will ask the credential committee 
ahead for reservations. It's simple. For example, to call a resort in 
firmative steps to make not to seat any delegation with a the respective state population in women's representative of less 
Cairo, California, look up the area code in your telephone directory 
terms of minority groups, women than 40 per cent--no matter how it 
and dial "1"; then the area code and then 555-1212 for Cairo information. 
and young people, defined as those was selected. forv 18 to 30. A glaring weakness of the 
There's no charge for this service. Then dial the call yourself and 
Of the two types of guidelines in commission's mandate, besides it 
save up to 50% of the cost of a person-to-person call. 
the mandate for reform, this is in vagueness, is the total essence of 
Machine 1 1-A Andrew PLODOWSKI Democrat 
Judge of Superior Court 
--1700 divorce and child care cases in St. Joseph County last year. And no full time Domestic Relations Court. 
--Andrew Plodowski will be a full time Judge of Domestic Relations Court. 
--Experienced attorney of 18 years. 
--Notre Dame Law School grad--Doctor.Jurisprudence. 
Paid Political Announcement 
The_ Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by thestudents of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscnpt1ons may be purchased for $8 per semester from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, lndianil 46556, second class postage paid 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. · 


Monday, May 1, 1972 the observer 
5 

'Two thirds'is representative 
College of Science approves tenure rule 
by Michael Baum 
The so-called "two-thirds rule" of faculty tenure has been greeted with approval and cautious op­timism for the future in at least three departments of the College of Science. 
The chairmen of chemistry, physics and mathematics in statements this past week, were 
united  in  their support  of  the  
measure.  
The  three  departments  

represent a good cross-section of the college in regards to the question. Chemistry, under Prof. Jeremiah P. Freeman, is almost exactly two-thirds tenured. In addition, two men presently tenured will be resigning in the future. 
Explaining that his department had projected a plan of "an­ticipated retirements", Freeman said that the department's hiring policies had brought it, coin­cidentally, just within the suggested limit. Barring oc­casional fluctuations up and down, Freeman said, "Our departmental size has not changed greatly over a long period of time. It's working out the way it should." 
Freeman noted that one problem in predicting future hiring and tenure policies is uncertainty about the possibility of increasing faculty size. "You have to know the departmental quota and nobody knows what that is yet," he remarked. Freeman added that the last directed quota for the department of chemistry -the number that it could employ -was. figured last fall to include the projected merger with St. Mary's, and has not yet been revised. 
Freeman sees the application of the two-thirds quota as an attempt to regularize what has hitherto been an informal procedure, "I think what Fr. Burtchaell is at­tempting to do is to regularize things. He's trying to let the departments know what their boundary conditions are. Notre Dame has always been rather informal about this, and there has been a certain amount of rivalry among colleges." 
Free Lance Behavior 
Freeman noted, however, that he didn't feel publishing the guideline was a good thing, "My main objection to publishing percentages is that a young man may assume, but simple arith­metic, that he has no chance of being tenured." 
Freeman said he felt this would "encourage free-lancing behavior," causing young un­tenured faculty members to concentrate more on preparing a standing with other schools to fall back on rather than being "university-centered."
In addition, he said, he felt it 
caused "unnecessary ap­
prehension" among faculty. "I 
think the departments should be 
relied upon to make their own 
decisions," he said. 
Summing up his opinion of the future Prof. Freeman commented, ''We've never gotten ourselves in a bad position and I don't think that we will in the future." 
Another facet is visible in the 
department of physics, chaired by 
Prof. Charles Mullin. Presently, 
the department is about 81 per cent 
tenured, four over the guideline, 
and has the highest percentage 
among the major science depart­
ments. 
Prof. Mullin explained that the 
high percentage of tenured faculty 
is the result of competitive hiring 
practices over the past few years. 
"We are a department that grew 
rather rapidly over a certain time 
span and the competition to get 
and keep quality people was ex­
tremely great. Just to meet the 
competition we were forced to 
move people up very rapidly," he 
explained. · 
On the other hand, according to · Mullin, "We are fortunate to have 
a number of retirements coming 
up." By June of 1978, five men will 
have tenured 
Physics Plan 

The physics department, ac­
cording to Mullin, will present the 
requested plan to the ad­
ministration that should bring the 
department under the quota after a 
period of time. Mullin feels that 
this can be easily accomplished, 
"given sufficient" time. 
At present the department plans 
on a long term program over a 
space of ten years. Exactly how 
the ruling will affect tenuring of 
faculty is not certain, "We haven't 
faced this situation yet," said 
Mullin, "The policy is a new one, 
and it depends on how flexible the 
plan is." 

2nd Co-hit 


Color

Filmed in 
THE 



GIRL HUNTERS 
The projected plan most probably will not call for a direct effort to reach the two-thirds mark according to Mullin, but may call for a slight increase in the number of tneured faculty over a short period, to be balanced by a gradual decline. 
The proposed plan, not yet detailed, was originally drafted by Prof. Mullin. It will be presented to a departmental committee and discussed through several meetings. Following full faculty approval, the final plan will be presented to the administration for approval, according to Prof. Mullin. "I would hope by June 1st," he added. 
''A lot of this has to be conjecture on my part," Mullin cautioned, "because it's hard to tell what will be the situation five years from now.'contrast, the department of mathematics, with chairman Prof. 
0. Timothy O'Meara, is tenured only to about 56 percent of its faculty. With one professor retiring this year, the mathematics department will be 5 short of the two-thirds line. 
Before Burtchaell 
Prof. O'Mea'ra explained that the department has made a point of following a similar rule for some time, "I think the two-thirds rule is a very good idea. We were trying to do it ourselves before Fr. Burt­chaell appeared on the scene. It's the only way to keep fresh young blood in the department," he said. 
The situation in the mathematics 
department is affected by the 
department's policy of awarding 
"visiting assistant professor­
ships." 
These "visiting" positions are filled by six or seven doctoral students at Notre Dame, to sup­plement the regular assistant 
q ••. 1 \ 3 ·~.. ~: ·.~.··~·~::·:._ ..• 
"' 'j " 
······. ~--· ···" '·" b ,.;.· 

professorships drawn from outside With such a large margin left the University. within the two-thirds guideline, 
Those in the visiting positions tenuring within the mathematics teach 12 hours a week, and draw a department probably will not salary of $9,000 a year. They only change much, but then it is still hold the position for about two difficult anyway. years, however, and then must "At this moment we have 228 leave the University for em­unsolicited applications for jobsployment elsewhere. for the next year," O'Meara 
"They are definitely terminal, pointed out. "About 15 of these are you can't hold the position for more really excellent individuals. We've than two years, and they must a very good market from which to leave," according to O'Meara, draw talent. and the ability to "We do not keep any of our people develop now," he concluded. 
on.'' 

Hesburgh questions population cr1s1s 
A deeper crisis over values and priorities lies beneath the widespread concern with over­population, according to Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, CSC, the president of the University of Notre Dame. 
In an article appearing in a special supplement in Sunday's New York Times, sponsored by the Population Crisis Committee, Washington, DC, Fr. Hesburgh said the question of human dignity "is becoming lost in the discussion of population growth." 
The priest-educator said, "If population growth is viewed alone as the one great crisis, then we will descend to all kinds of pragmatic and immoral initiatives. One of themosblatant of these is abortion as a means of population control .. . As a priest, I have known of nothing that so shatters a woman, psychologcally and morally, as the destruction of_ human life within 
... ,. ''f· 
3 
POSTER" OF ONE OF THECOLOR IN THIS "MINI-\ 

PRESIDENTIAL 
i 


CANDIDATES! 

1. Buy a bunch of Flair pens. You need ' ' • 3. Congratulations! You have created a brown, red, blue, orange, purple and ­
·-genuine full color portrait of someone black. (You need tr.em any·::ay for school.) ~~ 
you knoN and love. Maybe. If he or she is 

.. not your favorite presidential candidate, these color guide numbers. (1). Blad (5). ~ 
2. Now-color in the picture according to r 
. ha·;e patience. You'll see your favorite Brown (2). Red (6). Orange 191 Purple (3). ' 
· soon in the Flair Election Collection! Blue. Please do not co:or unnumbered 
(Don't forget to ask about Flair's running a~eas. mate, the Flair Hot Liner.) 
her." 
Fr. Hesburgh called upon af­fluent nations to aid un­derdeveloped countries in which rapid population growth has prevented gains in food, housing education health services and income. "The United States, with 6 percent of the world's population, annually uses 40 percent of the world's energy," he noted. The United States gives "a mere one billion" to foreign aid, he added, while "two-thirds of the rest of the world lives. on less than $200 a year." 


He also said Catholics are as interested as any group in solving population problems, and he called upon his co-religionists to support basic research into the biochemistry of human procreation in order to make available birth control means "which will pass any moral, theological or cultural test." 

.. ' 
• 
Gilit·~:e Ccrrpary PaperMa~e Divisicn © '912 

(c) 1!172 New York Times 
Houston, April :10 -As the Apollo 16 astronauts spent their first full day on landheretoday, their hearts and ther body organs further readjusted to the 1-G forces of Earth after working 11 days in 0-G of space and one-sixth G on the Moon. 
Today the astronauts were examined by doctors and debriefed by space agency officials on technical aspects of Apollo 16's flight which was man's fifth lan­ding on the moon. Then the three 
t 
-=6~___t.:...:h....:....::.e....:....::.o.:...:b.:...:s.:...e-=-r_v.:...:e.:...:r__·____:·_M~on~day, May 1, 1972 





Astronauts relax. 
to Earth 
crewmen, who arrived here last night. relaxed with their families. 
As they worked and relaxed, the Apollo 16 astronauts -Capt. John Young of the Navy; Col. Charles Duke of the Air Force and Lt. Cmdr. Thomas K. Mattingly of the Navy -were regaining some of the weight they had lest inspace. · 
And like other astronauts, they temporarily experienced the peculiar sensation that their clothing and bodies were heavier than they actually were -a reversal of the weightless phenomena of space. 
The astronauts were un­conscious of the way their bodies silently and painlessly reset reflexes tht were not called upon space and readjusted their physiologic homeostatic mechanisms to 1-G, Dr. Charles Berry, director of Life Sciences for the space agency, said in nn in­terview. 
Homeostasis is the word that scientists use to describe the way that man and other higher animals tend to maintain a stable internal 

t ~ Henry outlines progress at SMC 
~ 
t ., (continued from pg. J) At. St. Mary's Henry has already I strengthened the political science l and psychology departments. He 
~ projects the college will have degrees in Urban Studies and[ Business Administ. aiton soon. In the Education Department, Dr. Eugene Campagnale, chairman ,t is implementing a new curriculum. In Henry's estimation, these t changes will make the education department one of the most progressive departments in the 
Midwest. 
"Internships, field observation, 

living experiences off-campus, 
directed independent studies, use 
of para-professionals as staff 
members, student research--all 
must be experimented with 
judiciously." Henry explained. 
"Structure and mechanics, must 
not be allowed tc get in the way of 
learning. We will constantly seek 
to find new ways of doing old things 
better while experimenting open­
mindedly with the novel. Both 
accelerated education and 
stopouts should be looked at. Early 
admission and experience credits 
will not be dismissed unilaterally." 
He anticipates St. Mary's will 

adapt the 4:1:4 calendar system 
which allows students and faculty 
study tour or internship ex­

periences during semester break 
for credit. Since this change must 
depend on reduced faculty and 
students hours per semester, it will 
not be used this year. Although no 
building expension is presently 

contracte, Henry said that a new 
library will probably have priority. 
Explaining the advantages of 

maintaining St. Mary's as a small 
college, Henry stressed the 
decentralization and per­
sonalization of St. Mary's to 
achieve a senseof community 
lacking in large universities. 
Henry enumerated the benefits of 
small colleges as: 
"personalizing their relationship 

with students; responding to 
changing needs of students in a 
.. 


very large way, necessarily bureaucratic structures, cannot; effecting a sense of community in a way that large colleges find dif­ficult to achieve; and maneuvering in terms of self-survival, ex­perimentation, innovation, in a way that large institutions cannot be." 
While not increasing in size, St. Mary's will also not lose students. Henry reported that September's freshman class has 450 students and is continuing to grow. Although he did not have statistics on upper classes, he could not discern a substantial loss of those students either. 
"Small colleges are capable of great productivity, but probably a relatively small proportion of them really achieve it. St. Mary's has undeniably been among this handful. I believe small size to be an important contributor to per­sonal emotional stability and security." 
Henry did not answer questions from the audience after his speech. He felt most of the queries would involve specific problems with registration which either Dr. William Hickey, special assistant to the president, or department chairmen could answer. 
Saturday he addressed the spring meeting of the Parent's Council, before returning to Minnesota. 

The last Ride to O'Hare Student Union Busses leave Monday May 15 at 1:30 pm Tuesday May 16 at 1:30 pm 
Tickets on sale now at lst Bank Campus Travel Offic.e 
9:00 to 12:00 1:00 to 4:45 
$5 All Sales Final 
FRANKIE'S 
EVERYDAY DINNER 
SPECIALS  
-Ocean Perch  $1.25  
-10 oz. Rib-Eye Steak  $1.50  
1-!2 Broasted  Chicken  $1.50  

Includes Tureen Soup, Salad, Bread, Butter and Coffee Planning a Party? Frankie's has Special Rates for Student Parties~ 
Attention all Seniors/Juniors/and Sophomores/to/be in the Notre Dame College of Arts and Letters: Interviews for membership on the 1972/73 ARTS AND LETTERS STUDENT ADVISORY COUNCIL will be conducted this week. 
To apply contact.the Dean's Office at 6642 before 5 pm today! 
environment-onearth or in space­through a complex series of in­teracting physiologic and biochemical processes. 
Scientststs long have been amazed at how well the human body adapts to changes in the external environment on Earth. Healthy people adjust quickly to the high altitudes to Denver .which is a mile higher than New York, and eskimos function well in the 

Just as remarkable is the way astronauts so quickly and ef­fortle~:.sly readapt to 1-G from space without experiencing any permanent damage, Berry said. 
"All the changes we have seen from Zero G to 1-G are tem­porary," he added. 

··zero li is a less demanding environment physiologically in the sense that the heart does not have to battle a one-G force as it con­
arctic. 
tually does on Earth.' 
If there's one time you need a friend... 
... it'~ \\"hen .vou ~eek Pmplo~·ment. That'~ oUI' 
business. When ~·ou m·e ~l't>king employment Oi' a 
step-up fi'Oill yuul' Jli'P~ent job, vi~it u~. You'll 
become involwd with people \\·ho uncll'l"stanrl yom· 
jll'oblt>m . ..\!1(1 can do ~omething-ahout it. That's 
th~; key. lJu ~onwthing ahout it. Look us up in 
tht' White Pag-P~. ~ow. \\'e'l'e cel'tain you'll 
make a fl'iend. And so \\·ill \\·e. 

World's largest Profeuional Employment Service 

It's taken two years to develop a refillable butane lighter this good. The Vu·tane is safe at any altitude. The three big fuel compartments help make it unbreakable ...without making it heavy or bulky It still weighs only one ounce. And fits, almost invisibly, into your pocket. And comfort­ably, into your palm. Five flying translucent colors, so you can see the "works." 


vu-tane • 
REFILLABLE BUTANE LIGHTER 

15""~ 
Notre Dame 

Bookstore 

-----------------~--~-~---------­
Monday, May 1, 1972 the observer 7 
Irish muddle through scrimmage 
by VIc Dorr clear and he outran the defensive blues to their final score of the day. secon'dary 48 yards for the first The tally came with 2:58 left to
Saturday afternoon, with the 
score of the day. Bob Thomas' play, and it came at the end of a 96­annual Blue-Gold game only a 
extra point gave the second team a yard march.
week away, Ara Parseghian sent 
7-0 lead with 8:42 left in the first Scrimmaging from his own four,
his Fighting Irish football squad 
quarter. Clements was dumped for no gainthrough four quarters of realistic 
The number two defense had still on first down, but came back with game-type conditions. 
The result was a 24-15 victory for another surprise ready for the first a nine-yard pass to wide receiver team blues. After a clipping Willie Townsend. Penick picked up 
the ND first team, but Parseghian 
penalty wiped out Greg Hill's 20-10 yards to the 23, Clementswas less than pleased with the yard kickoff return and moved the scrambled to the 34, and Penickshowing. 
ball back to the 1-yard line, carried again for a first down at"Next Saturday," he told his Clements tried to pass his team out the 44. Dewan ripped up the middle team, "you'll have to do it on your 
own. We made far too many of the hole. But the frosh signal­for 19 yards, and then Penick caller was nailed in the end zone swept left end for 18 more(to the
mistakes for anyone at this stage of Spring practice. You can't play for a safety by defensive end Tom gold 19-yard line.). 
good football with fumbles, in­Freis troffer, and the second team Four plays later, on fourth and terceptions, and penalties." had a 9-0 lead. eight from the 17, Clements rolled There were turnovers and costly Clements rallied his offense on to his left and fired a pin-point
their next possession. After John
penalties--problems which have touchdown pass back across the 
Cieszkowski fought for a first down
dogged the Irish all Spring--on both field to Willie Townsend. Thomas 
at the gold 48, Clements hit half­
sides in Saturday's workout, and PAT closed the regulars' scoring
back Darryl! Dewan for a 10-yard
ND's second-stringers took quick at the 12:02 marl< 
gain to the 38. Penick through the middle to the touchdown. The two-point try
advantage of the first two errors 
18, and then threw to Dewan for a failed, and the score stood at 17-15 The Irish will not hold a regularcommitted by the number-one Eric Penick carried to the 22, first-and-goal at the nine. with 11 :30 left. scrimmage this week, but will unit. and on fourth and seven from there ~The touchdown--a looping pass Clements returned late in the practice in preparation for 
Linebacker Sherm Smith halted Clements hit tight end Mike from Brown to Creany--came on fourth period and led the first-team Saturday's finale in the Stadium. the first drive of the day by the Creaney for a first down at the 15. the next play, and Thomas con­first-line offense when he in­Two plays later, Clements found verted with 10:54 left in the period. 

Two crewmen robbed, beaten 
tercepted qb Tom Clements at the Willie Townsend wide open in the 
The first offP-nse sc'ored again
gold 21-yard line. From there, the end zone and hit him with an 11-Two sophomore members of the to participate in the Mid-America
just before the end of the half. Tom 
number-two offense moved the ball yard scoring toss. Thomas con­Notre Dame crew team were badly Crew Association Regatta in
Clements, executing a two-minute
just beyond midfield, where they verted to make it 9-7 with 3:48left beaten Saturday while hitch-hiking Marietta, Ohio. The bus · broke
drill, moved his team to the gold 16
faced third and two against the in the quarter. to campus after their team bus down in Columbus, Ohio, however, 
with 29 seconds left, but a pass to
goalline unit of the first defense. leaving the team stranded.
Cliff Brown took up the reins at had broken down and left them
Willie Townsend fell short of the
Looking for the first down the beginning of the second period, without transportation. After spending the night in a
mark and Bob Thomas came on to
yardage, qb Bill Nyrop . followed and he led the first offense 64-yards parish rectory, the team members
hit a 33-yard field goal and give the The pair, Kevin J. McEvil?' of
his center through the !me on a to the go-ahead TD. Brown stuck to paired off and began to hitch-hike
first team a 17-9 halftime lead. Badin Hall and Arthur A. Ge1s of
quarterback sneak. But Nyrop got the ground until he was within gold back to Notre Dame.
Keenan Hall, were beaten severely 
The score stayed that way until Geis and McEvily had reached
much more than two yards. Once territory, and then he took to the about the head with fist and belts
well into the final period, when
past the six man front thrown up air. From the gold 42, Brown found the outskirts of Peru about 4:30
by two unidentified men who
Brown's pass to Darryl! Dewan
by the defense, Nyrop was in the Creaney for a 20-yard gain, sent p.m. when they were picked up by 
picked them up north of Peru, Ind. 
was tipped into the air and picked their two assailants. off by Tim Rudnick at the blue 35.
Jim Donaldson::=======================::::::::::::::=:=:=:=:=:===:===:=============================::::::::::::::: McEvily lost one tooth and had "We had ridden with the men for 
Rudnick returned to the blue 22 several others chipped while Geis about 20 minutes," McEvilybefore being stopped, and the also may have suffered a broken stated, "and then they begansecond team offense cashed in on nose. Both sustained multiple driving crazy. Art said that we'd

The Irish Eye 
his theft. facial cuts and bruises. like to get out and then the two of On second down, Pat Steenberge McEvily and Geis had left them just began to hit us." ~=====Spring Football-See how they run! hit Bob Washington in the left campus Friday on the team bus The two men beat McEvily and 
Geis intermittently for nearly two

corner of the end zone for the with the rest of crew club members 


Notre Dame's offense put enough points on the scoreboard last season for the Irish football team to win eight games but they weren't really an impressive unit. 
Excluding the Northwestern and Pittsbur~h games, .in which ~otre Dame rolled to 50-7 and 56-7 victories, the Irish scored JUSt 119 pomts a year ago, an average of only 14.9 points per game. . 
Lacking an experienced quarterback, Not~e pame ~ehed on a con­servative, ball-control, type of running game m 71--qmte a ~hange from the explosive brand of football Irish fans were used to durmg the days when Terry Hanratty and Joe Theismann called the signals. But, as backfield coach Tom Pagna says, things "should be bette~" in 1972. 
There are several reasons for a brighter point production outlook next season not the least of which is an· improved quarterback situation. Sopho~ore Cliff Brown leads the parade of QB hopefuls but freshman Tom Clements, junior Pat Steenberge and soph Bill Nyrop aren't far 
behind. " . 
"We have a good nucleus to work with," Pagna comments. Chff was under a lot of pressure last year but, because of that year's experience, he has improved." 
"Clements has been coming along well," Pagna relates "He's hit a plateau recently, but that's very common for a yo!-lng q~a~terback. H.e's 





OBSERVER 
SPORTS 
hours, while driving about aimlessly. Finally, the assailants took the students' wallets, shoes, watches, and coats and left them in a ditch outside Valparaiso. 
McEvily and Geis were able to make their way to a nearby farm­house where they summoned the police and received medical at­tention. 
Preliminary investigation showed that the license plates of the car the assailants were driving had been stolen. Police are con­tinuing the search for the pair. 
Irish bow to Cincinnati, Xavier 
by Stan Urankar Curley to second, and Tom weather dampened Xavier's hopes Schaefer followed with a bloop of a double triumph. A single, a
Cincinnati, Ohio--There's 
single to left that moved Curley on 
sacrifice, and Dave Dempsey'sbeen snow~d with techniques and things to memonze. Its hke crammmg something about Ohio that just 
to third. triple nicked starter Ed Hrabcsak
for a test you're not sure what you'll remember." doesn't seem to agree with the "Steenberge and Nyrop are backing up those two," ~agna .says. "T~at Irish baseball team. Larry Kilgore's sacrifice fly sent for a run in the third, but the Irish 
Curley racing home, and shortstop got it back in the fourth on
gives us four likely candidates and each has somethmg gomg for h1m. Cliff has all that experience, Tom is a fine runner, Steenberge has ~x-Notre Dame continued to un­John Hansberry then rapped the Reschan 's ground rule double and 
first pitch from Lucas to the fence Roemer's two-bagger to the fenceperience, also, but he isn't as nifty as the top two, and Nyrop has good s1ze successfully battle a hex against in right center for a run scoring in right.
and a good arm." clubs from the Buckeye State as double to give Cincy a 3-o ad­A slight drizzle began to turn into The Irish figure to be even stronger at the other backfield positions, both Cincinnati and Xavier took a vantage. 
a steady downpour as the lastespecially at fullback, where veterans Andy Huff and John "Cisco" game from the Irish last weekend. 
Burmon continually stifled Irish half of the fourth stanza began.
Cieszkowski hold sway. The Bearcats, with southpaw Tim 
scoring possibilities as singles by With the Musketeers poundingh th f b · f t Burman scattering seven hi~s,
"We think of John and Andy as alternates, rat er an o one emg Irs dropped ND, _2, on Friday, while Rump, Reschan, and Ken Schuster Hrabcsak for three doubles and astring and the other second," Pagna remarks, "Andy is an outstanding 6 
gave ND their only base runners triple to send three runs home, the blocker and John is a powerful runner. And don't forget (freshman) the surprising Musketeers, raising 
through the first six innings. umpires found themselves hardtheir mark to 11-5, dumped the
Wayne Bullock. He's going to be a good ballplayer, too." d 
A single, a walk, and third put to call a halt to the contest with 
Huff, Cieszkowski and Bullock all fit into what has become the Irish 4-1, in a rain-shortene game baseman Butch Alberts' line shot the home team needing onlystereotyped image of a "Notre Dame back" --big, strong, grind-it-out Saturday afternoon. 
home run in the sixth put UC up by another half inning for an officialstyle runners, rather than fleet scatbacks. But, with the likes of Greg Hill, Mid-American conference a 6-0 count and chased Lucas to the victory.
Gary Diminick and Eric Penick in contention for halfback jobs, that powers Ohio University and Miami showers. Freshman Mike Swallow Coach Kline tried every stalling
image may undergo a change. of Ohio took turns in sweeping a came on and limited the Bearcats trick his 38 years of baseball"The defense always gets its choice of talent," Pagna explains, "and pair of games from Notre Dame 
to just one hit while striking out tutoring afforded him, but nonethey usually end up with the players who have great speed. We've largely earlier this· year, and their Queen two over the last two stanzas. 
worked as the men-in-blue werehad workhouse backs who may not have had blinding speed but could City counterparts didn't make 
Reschan spoiled Burman's adamant in continuing the game.
block and catch passes as well as run." things any easier for coach Jake 
shutout in the eighth with his sixth Kline twice visited with HrabcsakKline's travelling Irish. homer of the year, a towering blast before pulling him in favor ofPenick, who led the freshman team in rushing last year, could be Notre Junior Bill Lucas, regularly an over the left field fence that scored 
Dame's most explosive back since Nick Eddy. He possesses the size (6'1, ND relief pitcher, got the call to Swallow. The southpaw again 
195) and the speed (9.5 in the 100) to be one of the great ones. But he's got start against Cincy, and was captain Joe LaRocca ahead of him. sparkled as he retired the next two 
Reschan's blast likewise gives him Xavier hitters without harm.
a lot to learn. disappointed by poor Irish fielding. 
a chance of equalling the ND
"Eric lacks the savvy and reflexes that a veteran back who's been An error by third baseman Rob through the wars, so to speak, has," Pagna comments. "He will have to Reschan <his 12th miscue of the season mark of 10 round trippers, The Irish were unable to produce t work on his blocking and pass catching. On the plus side, though, he's got season, putting his only five away set by Rich Gonski in 1964. a run in the top of the fifth, and the • 
The only other scoring threat the 
size, strength and willingness to work hard and learn." away from the mark set by umpires, with the help of Irish could mount came in the Musketeer mentor Bill Woolf, then
Hill and Diminick don't exactly slog through a line either. Both can shortstop Phil Krill last year l, 
seventh frame. After Reschan decided that it was too wet to 
move. coupled with Jim Eaton's single 
went down swinging, Schuster and continue.
Hill has been running with the first unit this spring, along with Darryl and Don Good's sacrifice fly pinch hitter Tom Hansen bothDewan, but it's doubtful if the Irish will have only two halfbacks who moved the Bearcats ahead 1-0 
rapped out singles. Bob Roemer The Notre Dame season mark •
could be considered "first team". Parseghian will most likely shuttle afrer just an inning of play. 
walked to load the bases, but 
now stands at 9-13 with NCAAPenick, Hill, Diminick and Dewan, as well as freshmen Ron Goodman Freshman Ken Rump did the Burman bore down to fan pinch tournament hopes now looking
and Chuck Kelly, in and outofthe lineup nextfall. damage in the third. Rump batter Gary Mayer and got Dick very dim. The Irish next travel toWith eight of 11 starters gone from last year's defensive unit, the of-stopped a hard smash off the bat of Nussbaum on a long fly to center to 
Hillsdale College Tuesday for afense will have to "carry the ball", if the Irish are to be successful in '72. catcher Mike Curley, but then took end the inning. 
doubleheader, then return homeThe potential is there though and, with hard work, Notre Dame may once too long in getting rid of the ball 
Saturday's game was the first of for a Wednesday twinbill with the
again give scorekeeper's many a busy afternoon. and threw it away. Good sacrificed 
a scheduled twinbill, but the University of Michigan. 
• 
~--------------~--------------·-------------------­
8 
the observer Monday, May 1, 1972 

Hoaoi to res11me peace negotiations 
Dr. Henry Kissinger, President points of its ally, the Provisional personalities. Tho denied that his and it has been indicated that some by John L. Hess Nixon's adviser on National Revolutionary Government of side aimed to impose "a Com­names of potential members of 
(c) 1972 New York Times Security. The secret negotiations South Vietnam. He summarized munist regime" on South Vietnam. such a government were broughtended last October when Tho their essential points, however, in into their discussions. returned to Hanoi and Kissinger calling for the withdrawal of In contrast to recent Communist Tho's arrival here today came Paris, April 30 -Le Due Tho declined to meet his associate, American troops, the immediate declarations, his statement did not after overnight stops in Peking and returned here from Hanoi today Xuan Thuy. resignation of South Vietnamese call for the immediate resignation Moscow, during which he met topand said he was in Paris to On his arrival in a Soviet President Nguyen van Thieu and of anybody but Thieu. It Soviet and Chinese officla.s 
negotiate with the United States Airliner at Orly airport, Tho read the formation of a South Viet­demanded "the abolition of any A tall, elderly man with silver for "a just and equitable peaceful a harsh rebuttal to Nixon's speech 
namese "Government of national form of coercion and oppression of hair, Tho smiled broadly at the solution to the Vietnamese last Thursday. But he phrased the harmony." the people," but did not specify the newsmen assembled at the airport problem." demands of the Hanoi government Such a government would in­dissolution of the police and army today and said, "Dear friends, I 
Tho, a member of thP. North in a slightly more flexible manner clude members of the Provisional structures. am very happy to resume 
Vietnamese Communist Politburo, than previously. 
Revolutionary Government, In demanding that the United negotiations with the Americans." 
is widely expected to resume very Tho did not mention Hanoi's members of the existing legal States set a date to withdraw its Then he began reading a long
quickly secret negotiations with nine-point peace plan nor the seven political structure, and neutral troops and bring the American prepared statement in Vietnamese prisoners of war home, Tho did not which a translator soon took over specifically link this issue with a and finished in French. political settlement. In fact, he Tho described Nixon's speech
Students plan Derby party 
renewed a declaration that the last Thursday as "fine words" "liberation" forces would not aimed at duping public opinion. He Wapatula will ignite festivities in track ends. The polyester con­been known to attract over 150 attack American troops that did said the president has promised in the Infield at Churchill Downs this tainer will mark the place. Each enthusiasts so come early, bring not attack them." 1968 to end the war in six months, 
Saturday as ND-SMCers toast the person is asked to bring a pint of booze, betting money, and a radio The statement could be read as but had in fact widened the war 
..,. 
Kentucky Derby. Tim Lawson and reopening an offer made by the and heightened the bombing.
his favorite Vodka-Gin-Bourbon­<to find out who won the race). A 
Tony Del Pra are ring-leading the Tequila-Rum-Wine ... as well as ice Communist side last June and Calling the United States the real
free drink will be given to the 
party which is scheduled to begin or mix (soft drink or Hi-C>to throw person who is able to see a horse spelled out by Tho in an interview in aggressor, Tho said Vietnamese around 10:30 a.m. (E.S.T.) into the Wapatula. July: to negotiate a separate peace resistance was "the right of self­
when the 5:00 o'clock race rolls 
Directions to its Infield location: Notre Dame tee-shirts or other with the Americans, including the defense of the entire Vietnamese
around! 
Take the "In" tunnel to the infield, rah-rah studs are advised for release of prisoners, while leaving people, and hence there cannot be
In a longer look to Louisville--­
turn right and continue past the crowd identification. Bring your a political solution to the Viet­aggression of the North against
Rare Earth will be in open concert
seller windows until the limiting own glass. namese. South Vietnam."
Friday night (cheap tickets) at
fence where the stretch of the The offer drew no public Tho denied there had been any
Derby history such bashes have Louisville Downs in the vicinity, response from the United States at "tacit agreements" with the
and parties are rumored. I.D. 's are 
that time, nor did the alternative United States regarding the end of
a must on Derby Day for all bar 
seven-and nine-point plans for a bombing in the North, and called
Nuns protest Viet war 
hopping maneuvering. 
coalition "a 
the Archdiocese of New York(c) 1!172 New York Times issued a statement later saying that no court charges would be After rece1vmg communion at pressed against "the sisters in­
the altar, 12 nuns -some wearing volved." white sheets with the legend "another person dead in In­Personnel at the cathedral said dochina" -lay down in the aisles of that no nun had ever been arrested St. Patrick's Cathedral here before in the religious edifice. during the morning service today. 
Worshippers in the crowded While the 12 nuns were demon­Roman Catholic Church looked on strating inside the church, about 60 with mixed amazement and shock other nuns conducted an antiwar as detectives arrested seven of the vigil outside of the Fifth Avenue nuns and a woman lay teacher who cathedral to demand that the had lain down with them. Roman Catholic Church in New 
The eight prisoners were taken York take a stand against the war to a nearby police station where in Vietnam. they were charged with interfering with a religious service. They were Most of the nuns belonged to the 
served summonses for a court Order of Sisters of Charity, which appearance May 18. The com­is active in education, health and plainant was listed as Joseph social welfare service. 
Connolly, head usher at the One of those arrested was Sister cathedral. Patricia Harding, 30. "My desire The other five nuns continued was to put myself on the line to lying the aisles during the brief dramatize what is happening in prayer service that followed Indochina," she said. "Cardinal communion. Then they rose and Cooke says he is against war. If he left the church. is, he should resign as military 
The Communications office of vicar to the armed forces." 
government. Kissinger Nixon's charges of violations was meeting with Tho secretly, pure invention." 
Anyone interested in applying for the following positions or in working on 1973 MARDI GRAS can contact John Duffy or Joe Oliva at 1204 or contact the Social Commission Office (7757) Carnival Chairman 
Pomotions Kickoff Party Chairman 
Raffle Chairman 
Games Chairman 
Business Manager 
• 
.. 
-·--"--------­WANTED 
WANTED: we will do typing anytime for reasonable prices. Especially on short notice. Call Chip 8256 or Mike 6963. 
WILL BUY: working refrigerators, couchs, chests, anything of value. Call Mrs. Cooper, 272·3004. 
Responsible woman over 30, grad student. To house sit, mid.June through mid A1.1gust. In exchange for place to live during summer school. Local references. Call 312·324·0043 after 7 pm. 
Typing: term papers, technical 
reports,  thesis,  dissertations,  
resumes,  professionally  done.  
Selectric  changeable type ma·  

chine used. Prompt service, free estimates. 24 hour. Phone 233· 9466. EXPERT SECRETARIAL SERVICE. 
Will work on Volkswagens . 12 
years experience. Reasonable Call after 4 pm. 272-3980 or 272­2765. 
WANTED: Metal file cabinet; used J.speed bike. 232-6796. 
Two white girl associates wanted for international correspondents. Must be over twenty. Call 283.7982 for information. 
Ride desperately needed to N.J. this weekend. Dan 8427. 
LOST AND FOUND 
LOST: tan corduroy jacket in room 118 O'Shag. call1742 or 1751. 
FOR SALE 
For Sale: 1 fantastic Boys. Girls 20" beginner bicycle. Low mileage very few dents. Call 272· 1885 after 6 pm. 
1969 Fiat 850 Sports Coupe. radials, snow tires, Priced for quick sale. 233·6059 alter 6 pm. 
1960 Red VW 41.000 miles. Good transportation. $150. 289-4940. 
STEREOS: at student discount rates . almost any brand. You can't afforc;l not to call us if you're buying or thinking of it. Call Tom 1327 or 1318. Mateco Marketing. 
Realtone Stereo. Tape deck. AM­
FM  radio.  BSR  turntable.  Air  
suspension  speakers.  $95.  Call  
1246.  

SAVE ON RECORDING TAPE! Cassette, Reel, and S-Track; Ampex, BASF, Memorex, Sony or TDK. Call Don 3729. 
CAMERA: CANON FTb like new. Call 234-9765 after 5 pm. $195. 
1970 Triumph GT6, Dark Blue, excellent condition. AM·FM radio, Pirrelli Radials, new transmission. Call John 232-4135. 
Engagement rings, watches, complete line Hallmark rings. Waltham watches. Tremendous savinvs. 313 Morrissey. 3575. 
Quality Oil and gas filters at wholesale price. 288-7004 or 8908. 
'69 VW bug, light blue, 4·Speed stick, excellent condition, $1195 firm. Bill Lavage, 259·0225. 

I Classified Acls 
·------------· --· -­-·-CL~=~F-IED·:-~~:AD:~~-~-S---,1 
1.00 PM 
~~ SP;;;c~ r.;c•;H E 1
..... '! ' 'Found' d<h at t!~0 l vsr and Found 
1 
section ilrc 1 ;~oi."t~h~d frep of I j ch~rqe bv thr:' ·Jt~r.;el ·ll·l ;n c1 i . publiC SP.rVICC. !..trnd ·s Ill VJO!o.1S, : 
1 
1. __!:__thr':, da~s~-·-__ . _.,,. ___ ! 
AD RATES 
Words ldo ~<'" 3da ~d:l :,d,o 1·10 .65 .95 1.15 1.35 1.55 11 1s 1.oo 1.50.. 1 as 210 2.40 16 20 I.JC U5:: iS 2.55 2.95 21·25 1.7J l.$5 3.2•: 3.85 4.45 26·30 2 l(o 3 15 3.95 4.75 5 45 31·H 1.•> 1.6~ 4.~5 4.75 6 15 36·40 1.80 4.2C 5.25 6.75 7.75 41·45 l.15 4.70 5.90 7.10 8.20 46·50 3.55 5.20 6.50 7.80 8.95 

'-------------------·-' 
PHOTOGRAPHERS: must sell new camera system: Honeywell Spotmatic, telezoom 2x MAG, etc. Call Jerry 8849. 
1967 Triumph TR·4 conv, wire wheels, radial tires, dual exhaust. 48,000 miles. 233·1912. 
Refrigerator: GE. big freezer. too big for campus . cheap 8125. 
For sale: Portable a.Track stereo tape player with AM·FM radio condition. Call John 1642. 
FOR RENT 
Furnished house. 1 story. 3-4 people. 272·6174 till noon. after 430. Available May 4, 1972. $140.00 
House for rent. Summer only. 2 
blocks from NO 3 to 5 bedrooms. $175 mo. Call Julie 4549. 
House for  Summer students  .  4  
bedroom  house,  completely  
furnished,  l'h baths,  shower  in  
basement,  washer  and  dryer.  

Phone 232-7180. 
Cottages on Lake Michigan Shore for rent. GINTARAS RESORT, 15860 Lake Shore road, Union Pier. tel. 616·469·3298. 
Two six bedroom houses, com­pletely furnished '· including utilities. available M·JY 20 thruough august. 234·9364. 
One and two bedroom apartments available May. Ullities furnished 234-9364. 
Rooms with Kitchen. Now or Fall. Girls only. $45. Also free summer rent for painting hou;e. 
·NOTICE 
Baggage truck to ALBANY, NY area. Call Larry 1854. 
Met club baggage truck to Long Island only. Space limited to first 70 $5 depositers. Sign up at 432 Zahm from 4·28 to 5·2. between 6·8 pm Any questions call 1883. 
MCAT·DAT: Summer home study review and testing program for the Medicai·Dental Admission Tetss. For information write: Graduate Studies Center, Box 386, New York, NY 10011. 
Grow Abroad this summer ... a month of carefree travel on your own in Europe .. plus four weeks of study in art, music, photography, drama or French. Growth through experience and instruction ... isn't that what it's all about? $695 from New York. Call Joe McDonough, campus representative. American In­ternational Academy. Phone 234­3465 or 283·7024. 
Student Union Charter Flights to Europe. 5 departures and returns. All different dates on sale at the Student Union ticket office, 11:15. 12:45,4:00.5:00. 
SUMMER STORAGE: New bldg.. dry and clean. Will pick up and deliver. Mrs. Cooper, 272·3004. 
The Student Union will be closed from May 4 on. It will reopen September 6. 
Parts and Accessories for lm· ported C"ars. Foreign Car Parts Co. 215 Dixieway North. (Roseland l. 272-7187. 
Students: 7 Day Caribbean sailing package. Beautiful San Jaun, Puerto Rico. Sail, swim surf, snorkle, mountain and Mangrove trails, deep sea fishing, for· tresses, islands, Flamenco dancers, and Steel bands. All expense paid exciting week of sailing and entertainment aboard a PEARSON 26 Fiberglass sloop. Only $150 (plus air fare} Hurry! Only limited spac·e. June lOth . June 30th, Captain John Ladd, Box 5141, San Juan P.R. 00906 or phone 725·0139 (AC 809}. 
CONNECTICUT RESIDENTS: New Haven club is sponsoiring a baggage truck which will stop in several cities For infor call Paul 7954 or Jess 3610. 

• 






