

-4c:.i.w..__. c-~....J~-/C? /3 0 /72 
. ~~~J7t. 
On The Inside 
The Observer Presidential En­dorsement 
... page 4 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Monday, October 30, 1972Vol VII No. 41 



Viet peace pact 
signature delayed 

says Washington 
by Bernard Gwertzman 
<C> 1!172 New York Times 

Washington, Oct. 2!1--Administration officials said today that the draft agreement for peace in Indochina would not be signed by Tuesday, the deadline set by North Vietnam. However, the officials continued to express optimism about an early set­tlement of the remaining details of the cease-fire and political arrangements. 
Moreover, Vice-President Spiro T. Agnew. appearing in a television interview, sought to assure North Vietnam that the United States was not seeking to renege on the nine-point agreement reached by 
Henry A. Kissinger and Le .. Due Tho, Hanoi's chief negotiator, in Paris earlier this month. 
"Substantially, the agreement has been hammered out and there are just a few matters to be made 'crystal clear' between the parties before it can be made final. There is no question about the principal parts of the agreement, as I see it," Agnew said on "Issues and answers," over the American Broadcasting Company. 
North Vietnam, when it made public last Thursday the details of the nine-point draft agreement reached by Kissinger, President Nixon's national security affairs adviser, and Tho, the Hanoi politburo member who is charged with the Vietnam negotiations, insisted that the United States sign by Oct. :ll. as it once indicated it would do. 
In private and public, Hanoi spokesmen have said in recent days that the ad­ministration was trying to back away from the accord. which provides for a cease-fire in place in Vietnam, and the machinery for a new political arrangement in South Vietnam. 
It also calls for the withdrawal of foreign troops from Laos and Cambodia, the pullout of all American forces from South Vietnam, and end to American military action against North Vietnam and the release of military prisoners. 
So far. Hanoi has not dropped publicly its insistence on the Oct. 31 signing date, but adminstration officials noted today that several recent Hnoi broadcast had dropped specific references to the Oct. 31 deadline limiting themselves to criticizing Washington for "delaying" the signing. 
Washington has also received intelligence reports from diplomatic and military sources indicating that Hanoi would meet the American request for a final megotising session to wrap upremainingquestions. 
These public and private "sigt;~als" have heavily influenced the optimism in the administration that Hanoi would not break off the talks over the question of a deadline. 
The administration has refused to say whether another negotiating date has, in fact. been reached with Hanoi. But officials noted that Kissinger was still in Washington today and Tho had not yet left Hanoi, where he returned from Paris two weeks ago, after reaching the draft agreement with Kissinger. 
A high administration official said yesterday that even after a final negotiating session with Hanoi, the United States will still want a further meeting in Saigon to get the concurrence of President Nguyen Van Thieu of South Vietnam, who has publicly objected to Parts of the draft agreement. 
This would mean, that even under the most favorable circumstances, it would be unlikely that a final signed agreement could be achieved before election day here. 
Administration officials do not deny that "rough" moments will occur when Thieu is asked to join in the agreement, but they still believe that in the end, he, too, will concur in the agreement, even though it will allow 145,000 North Vietnamese to remain in South Vietnam, and permit the Vietcong to have legal control over part of South Vietnam, provisions particularly objectionable to Thieu. 
The Bard visits dulac 
Much Ado About Nothing? Well, the 
Comedy of Errors, oftentimes called the 
Shakespeare Reading Marathon, survived 
the Tempest of a football weekend. 
Though it never reached its Twelfth Night, 
the King Leared and the Midautumn 
Night's Dream never hit Bottom. It all 
just goes to show that Love's Labor is not 
Lost. See story on page 2. 
SMC opens new student center in Regina 
by Maria Gallagher conversion of the hall into a student center. New St. Mary's Editor furniture wa:; purchased for the lobby areas and 
Saint Mary's celebrates the opening of the new dinettes for the kitchens, the South lobby was Regina Hall student center Tuesday night with a partitioned into several small alcoves, and Halloween party from 6:30 to 8:00. Admission is recreation equipment was purchased. free and all Saint Mary's students are invited. In addition, student government, the cabinet 
Highlighting the ·party will be booths and offices, the Blue Mantle, and McGovern sup­games sponsored by residence halls, a costume porters have established themselves on first competition, and a square dance in the North floor north in rooms which were student basement. residential rooms last year. 
Pumpkin carving, bobbing for apples,. and Regina became the site of the student center "floating pumpkins" are among the hall­because of the vast amount of basement spacesponsored activities. Prizes will be awarded to that had been empty or used for storage pur­the winners, and in the costume . competition poses. An appropriation of $25,000 by the Board prizes will be awarded for the best male and of Regents made the project possible. female costumes. Freshman Carol Froling will With conversion of the hall into a student do palm reading, Halloween cookies, cider, and center, the entire basement area-exluding the candy will be served free. South study room and the exercise room-which 
Student Body Vice President Sue Welte is was formerly restricted to women only will now confident that most of the equipment will be be open to men. installed in time for the party. Center facilities Maps indicating the location of various 
include three game rooms, a billiard table, ping­facilities will be posted on each side entrance to ­pong, two dinettes, a stereo system, and an the hall, along with directing signs along the exercise room for women only. way. 
Future plans include an indoor roller rink the Party chairman Denise Peterson hopes for a the South basement and a snack shop. large crowd, and indicated that other events for A number of renovations accompanied the the center are in the planning stages. 
Times poll shows Nixon headed for sweep 
details on page 6 

ND gifts may drop off 
New tax bills endanger education endowments 
story on page 3 

-.....----------------------------~-------­
--~ 

2 
the observer Monday, October 30, 1972 
• 
Discover the World on Your 
SEMESTER AT SEA 
Sails each September & February Combine accredited study with 
Marathon nearing completion 
by Tom Sheridan time to fill would be late Sunday Them rathon has also produced 
educational stops in Africa, Aus­
Staff Reporter night and early Monday morning some outstanding "vocal 
tralasia and the Orient. Over 5000 
because of classes but no problem athletes' , the record holder for a
"To be or not to be, that is the students from 450 campuses have 
question." The answer is that arose. straight tretch being T.C. Treanor 
already experienced this interna­
Notre Dame students, under When this reporter stumbled reading from 5:30 Friday af­
tional program. A wide range of 
project coordinators Vince Wagner upon the scene at 1:30 P.M. on ternoon or 25 1il straight hours. 
financial aid is available. Write
and Rick Ullinger, began a Sunday he found 3 blanket Leading n the "most hours read" 
now for free catalog:

Shakespeare marathon at noon wrapped Shakespeare enthusiasts column i John Rusche who has Thursday. seated near an ample supply of read fo 30 hours, including a e, Box CC40, Orange, Cal. 92666 
The purpose of the marathon is "spirits" to keep their own spirits to raise money for Sr. Marita 's up and themselves warm. The Day School. The idea began with marathon at this point was past the Professor Werge when he was an 73 hour mark and the three were 
undergraduate at Hope College, intent upon reading the "Merchant 


TIRED OF THE
with a similar marathon lasting 96 of Venice." hours. Notre Dame later broke Wagner called the project a H II 
that record by one hour and now success as it had already raised 
a H I F I 
intends to break their own record $250 at this point. The marathon -:·:· :·:· by stretching the marathon to 100 
was not without major figures as to c nduct open -~.·!~.·l -:_·l~.·l:.·
hours. SBP Bob Kersten played Romeo Coordinator Wagner related that 
rosters were set up with people 'T6o~~eas(~~~~~-er T~~i~~eld!~h: hall uality hearing :::: p 0 F F??? :~:~: 

Washington-Administration officials said Sunday that the In­dochina peace accord would not be signed by Tuesday, the deadline set by Hanoi. But they continued to express optimism about an early settlement of remaining details. Vice President Agnew, in a television­
an campu• tllday
interview, sought to assure North Vietnam that the United States was

warld 
not seeking to renege on the nine-point agreement reached by Henry 
A. Kissinger and Le Due Tho in Paris. 9:00-4: 00--information, navy of­Washington-Sen. George McGovern suggested in a television in­ficer information team, airplaneterview program that the United States could have another depression rides available, Iafortune. if President Nixon is re-elected. "He's going to try to veto us right 3:30--lecture, john todd; luther-the back to where we were in 1932, the Democratic Presidential nominee universal theologian, librarybriefs said, and asserted that Nixon had presided over worsening inflation, lounge.increasing unemployment and huge trade and budget deficits. 8:00, 10: 00--movie, mill house, a white comedy, free, engineering Wndatedi-Four hijackers shot and killed an Eastern Airlines auditorium. 
agent and wounded another employee at Houston International Air­port, then diverted a jet, its seven-man crew and 29 passengers to 
(c) 1972 New York Times 
Cuba, where the hijackers were taken away by Cuban authorities. The plane returned safely to Miami with its crew and passengers. Three of the hijackers were being sought by the F.B.I. ip connection with a murder and attempted bank robbery in Arlingtpn, Va. 


signing up for specific hours. He 
change in some of the original The qu lity and conditions of hall also related that there was no dialogue: "An Abowd by any other' life will be tonight's topic of trouble getting readers during the name would still smell like an discussio when the Hall Life football game. Even at 4 A.M. Abowd." What a bard would say to Committ e convenes at 9 o'clock in there were people around to nelp. a king about such a change un-Farley all's lounge.
He had anticipated that the hardest doubtedly will never be known, Tonigh 's meeting will be con­ducted a an open hearing session Women's during w ich students may air all
Caucus discusses
r 
grievanc s and problems con­
~ . nected w th dorm life. The co mittee is anxious to hear

health services, library center 
An investigation into University health servies and the organization 
r 
of a Women's Caucus information center in the Memorial Library were the topics for discussion at last night's Women's Caucus 
meeting in Badin Hall. 
The Caucus plans to investigate the services provided tostudents by the infirmary. Caucus leaders plan to distribute questionnaires con­cerning the types of services women want and the· percentage of women who think they would use these services. The group believes there is a need for a staff gynecologist to handle problems common to women students. "It's ridiculous to have to go all the way downtown just to get an examination," one member stated. 
The American Association of Colleges specifies standards of 
health federal law. These stan­dards apply .to all. public in­stitutions, but not to private schools. The caucus believes that some degree of pressure may be needed to enforce these standards at Notre Dame because it is a public school. 
The Women's Caucus is also organizing a library information center concerning the women's movement and its organization on campus. Pamphlets and publications by feminist authors will be available. 
A taped speech by a Purdue University professor of sociology 
The Observer is published dally
during the college semester ex­
cept vacations by the students of 
the University of Notr.e Dame and 
St. Mary's College. Subscriptions 
may be purchased for S8 per 
semester (14 per year) from The 
Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, 
Indiana 46556. Second class 
posta~e paid, Notre Dame, lnd:' 
465~~­
directly rom the students their concerning the problems. con­opinions oncerning the problems fronting women stimulated the and adv ntages associated with Caucus' investigations of health hall resi ence. services. Subordinancy of women Inform tion derived from the in jobs, low women's wages, and hearings will then be used as a the need for day-care centers in basis i the formulation of universities also highlighted the proposal to the SLC. 
tape. In the r way the committee, 


R I _ • • • 
listen to what Steve's got, a lot BETTER SOUND for a lot LESS MONEY. 232 Stanford Hall, 283-8650 
Speakers, Stereo Receivers 
Last night was the caucus' second meeting. Thirty-two women attended; twenty-two professors and graduate students and ten undergraduates.  hopes to gain an understanding :::: 8-track Tape Decks, :::: ;1Jr~..~~\:;:~~~;~ I ...f~r:i~l ~r~:d~':.',hos I campus __ j_ '!S:·:·:·:·:::·:·:·:·:·:·:::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;;;:::::::·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;!;:;  
I  
LPCAL TALENT  
i  





~TTENTION 
Anyone Wishing ~o Have Their Name Placed in a Directory of Campus anc,f I Local Talent Now Being compiled, 
I 


Please Contact D~ve Bennett at 7757 (leave a Message) or Write t~ Box 639, Notre Dame, IN. Pl~e Include all Pertinent Info. (Type of Music, Price, Dates, Address) 
• " < ' 

l ' .. ,·. 

a 

Monday, October 30, 1972 the observer 
3 
Tax changes pose serious threat to college financing 
by Mike O'Hare Staff Reporter 

Notre Dame and St. Mary's students may feel the brunt of higher tuitions in 1974 if certain congressional tax reforms go through. 
The charitable contribution tax deduction, so important in educational philanthropy, faces a serious challenge in the ninety-third session of Congress convening in January 1973, as well as in the remiander of the current session. 
Prominent among the tax reform measures on the congressional agenda is the Mills-Mansfield Bill <H.R. 15230 and 
S. 3657). which would repeal fifty-four tax law privisions over a three year period beginning in 1974. 
Estate. gift taxes affected 

In additon to the revision or even elimination of the charitable deducation, this reform measure is expected to modify other tax incentives which en­courage gifts to educational institutions. These possible .targets for change in­clude the estate and gift tax, and the fair market tax deduction for appreciated long-term capital gain property given to non-profit organizations. 
In a letter to the members of the Board of Trustees, University President Thodore M. Hesburgh expressed serious concern over the consequences the proposed reform could have on Notre Dame and other private colleges and universities. "Needless to say, the elimination or substantial modification of the charitable contribution deduction poses the most serious implications and consequences for Notre Dame and, in­
deed. univer for every private sity in the land."  college  and  
lncPntive for contributors  
The  charitable  contribution  tax  

deducation serves as an incentive to individuals and corporations to con­tribute to charitable and educational institutions. In most cases the deduction allowable for cash gifts to C'ducation is based on a percentage of the donor's adjusted gross income. For example, federal income taxreturns $.32 for every $1.00 he dontates to an C'ducational institution. A person with a taxable income of $52,000 may deduct on 
his Federal Incom Tax return $.53 for every $1.00 he contrubtes to education. 
Capital gain incentive 
Another important tax incentive for education philanthropy is that accorded to capital gain property, a new concept that was added to the Tax Reform Act of 1969. Capital gain property is any property that would result in a long term capital gain <profit) if it were sold at its fair market value. 
A gift capital gain property to a university entitles the donor to an income tax deduction of the full value of the 

Observer lnsifiht·. 
current fair market price. So if you give Notre Dame capital gain property which originally cost you $4,000 and is now worth $10,000, you can deduct $10,000 fromyourfederal income tax as a gift to education and you pay no tax on your $6,000 paper profit. 
The estate tax is a levy imposed by the federal government on the right of a person to transfer his property at his death. This tax is based on the value of the deceased's property. The deductions available for minimizing estate tax liability figure prominentyly in con­tributions to educational instituions. 
Reforms called overreaction 
The federal government also taxes gifts made during a person's lifetime. Gifts in excess of $3,000 a year are subject to the gift tax, with each person having a $30,000 lifetime exemption. In addition all gifts to education are deductible. 
Director of Public Relations and Dcvelpment Frank Kelly noted that the proposed tax reform could affect "the whole fabric of our society" as well as Notre Dame. He sees philanthropy as a "eustom unique to the United States," a basic system that has provided so many good things for so many people. 
Viewing the tax refrom effort as an overreaction to a small amount of people who don't pay any income tax, Kelly would like "a political solution that corrects the abuses and retains the benefits of our tax laws." He believes the federal government realizes the benefits of private philanthropy in creating tax incentives for charitable contribution. 

In regards to Notre Dame, Kelly emphasized the important role that charitable giving plays in the life of the University. "Approximately eleven per cent of the operating budget eachyearis funded by gifts to Notre Dame." He stated that charitable gifts have made Notre Dame possible, and that serious consequences would result if these donations were descouraged by tax reform. 
University-wide ramifications 
While the effect of tax revision on the flow of gifts to the University cannot be determined, Kelly stated that Notre Dame would have to investigate alter­native areas of funding if the reform measures are approved by Congress. He believes that the ramifications of reform would be felt at every level of the University. 
Financial Aid effect 

One area of the University that might be adversely affected by tax reform is financial aid to students. The latest Office of Financial Aid and Scholarhip statistics show that "fifty-five per cent of the Notre Dame undergraduate enrollment is receiving financial aid this year." This figure represents scholar­ships, loans, grants-in-aid, and other forms of assistance for 3,693 students in the 6,772 student body. In order to maintain this high level ofassistance, it is mandatory that the flow of contributions and gifts to the University do not diminish. 
Alumni contributions 
In his letter to the members of the Board of Trustees, Fr. Hesburgh acknowledged the far reaching con­sequences the proposed tax reform measures could have on Notre Dame's future. "As you know, Notre Dame's SUMMA Program concluded June 30 with gifts and committments exceeding $62.5 million. We all know that tax benefits or advantages are not the primary motivation for giving, par­ticuarly to Notre Dame, but they are certainly an important consideration. If the charitable deduction did not exist, I wonder if SUMMA would have been successful. . . Without it we certainly could not have generatedmore than $100 

Hesburgh: " ... serious implications and consequences for Notre Dame... " 

million in support im three capital 
campaigns." 

Notre Dame,which received $2,502,381 
from alumni in 1970-71, ranks eighth 
among the nation's colleges and 
universities in the amountof alumni gifts 
to its annual fund according to a report 
made by the Council for Financial Aid to 
Education. Currently John Murphy, Vice 
President of Public Relations and 
Development, estimates that Notre 
Dame receives about $2 million annually 
from its alumni. 
Future philanthropy 

If Notre Dame is to continue to develop and progress, as a leading private university, it is essential that it receive ample financil support. Educational philanthropy has indeed made Notre Dame possible. The continuance of educational philanthropy and the future of Notre Dame may be strongly shaped by the tax reforms approved by the ninety-third Congress. 

Summer job program taking applications until Nov 15 
The Notre Dame Student 
Government is accepting ap­
plications for summer jobs from 
undergraduate of graduate 
students who will attend Notre 
Dame next year. 
Students interested in the 
Summer Job Program should 
apply at the Placement Bureau 
office, room 222 in the Ad­
ministration Building from 1:00 ­
4:00 pm every Monday through 


Students sou_ght for SMC board 
Nominations for the student 
member of Saint Mary's Appellate 
Board opened Saturday, October 
29 and will close at midnight 
Wednesday November!. 
The Appellate Board reviews 
decisions which have been ap­
pealed from the Student Relations 
Board. It consists of one student 
appointed by the faculty assembly 
and approved by the student 
assembly, and one administration 
member appointed by the college 
president. The term of office is one 
year. Peter Smith is currently 
serving as faculty representative 
and Sister Raphaelita Whalen is 
the administration representative. 
The Board does not meet on a 
regular bas is; only when there is 
an appeal. Interested students 
may submit their names to Patty 
Kampsen, Box 13 ir call 4764. 
Friday. The deadline for all ap­to sit down and go through all the plications is November 15. applications," explained Hess. As 
Initiated this year by Jim soon as we get a list of available Clarke, Student Government jobs, we'll try to compare them Development Commissioner, in and match them up." conjunction with the Placement In matching students with Bureau and the Alumni Office, the specific jobs, continued Hess, top program will attempt to find jobs priority will be given to those for students in corporations and applicants who requested to work businesses which are owned or near their home. managed by ND alumni. Incorporated with the Summer 
A job through this program, Job Program, added Hess, is the stressed Mike Hess, member of the 
Placement Burear's Summer Intern Program, which although does not find jobs through alumni trains people for jobs in business and science. 
The Summer Job Program, which is being run by the Research and Development Commission, is not the first ofthistype. 
"The Sophomore Class made an attempt at it about two or three years ago, but it didin't go over too well with the students," explained Clarke. "Then, when we had an approach from Mr. Cooney on it about a month ago, we talked to Mr. Willem an from the Placement Bureau, we just got it going." 
Many more applications are expected, as approximately 50 were received within the first three days. Thus, concluded Clark, anyone interested should apply as soon as possible. 
~g:~~f~tE~:ffffi~ WNDU engineers face stalemate 
also could not be named at the 
present time. 
Information requested in . the application includes the ap­
plicant's name, home and campus 
address, year, major, college, 
Grade Point Average, physical 
disabilites, previous work ex­
perience, type of work preferred,
and the location where he would 
like to work. References will not 
be asked for, stressed Hess. 
By November 1, a random 
sampling of jobs preferred by studentsso that "we can take thes£ applications and give them to Mr. Cooney at the Alumni Office. He will then go to Alumni club meeting and tell them that certain 
studwnts are interested in working 
in certain areas," according to 
Clarke. Clarke expects to find 
about 200 jobs. 
"Then, November 15 we're going 
For six months contract talks between the television engineersand the management at WNDU­TV have been stalemated. S;ince 
the National Labor Relations Board approved the engineer's certification for negotiations on April24, 1972, the two parties have reached no final agreement. 
"Our job is in jeopardy unless we. have a contract." says Don Manning, an engineer who has worked for WNDU for 16 years. 
The main unsettled issues center around work rights, scheduling, overtime pay, seniority, and availability for the television engineers. 
"Progress is being made," said 
· Tom Hami,ton, the former executive vice president arid general manager of Michiana Telecasting, the parent organization for WNDU-TV. "I lead to a walkout. can't anticipate when there will be "There are a number of points on completion of the agreement." which we are pretty fr apart. But it 
"Morale here at the station has is a question of education of each been way down for years," states other <to each other's point of Melvin Dzialak, another engineer­view)," says Hamilton. 
at WNDU-TV. "For five or six years, the television engineers have been unhappy." 
At this point, with the eighth contract meeting scheduled for early 'Tuesday, the engineers are seriously considering a walkout. Th five station engineers who are seeking unionization have unanimously approved a walkout if negitations are further stalemated. 
"Nobody wants a walkout," said Manning, "but after six months of negotiations management is still not bending. So we unamimously voted for a walkout if it is desirable. 
Hamilton hopes the talks don't 
management is reluctant to 
discuss these specifics of the 
negotiations. Hamilton thinks that 
they are going along fine and the 
specifics are nothing worth talking 
about . 

"We don't want to throw the 
negotiations into a point of . curiosity or make them seem abnormal. At this point I'd say they are going along normal," says 
Hamilton. 

"Of course management thinks 
the negotiations are going along 
fine. They haven't accepted any of 
our important points yet,'' says 
Gene Zakreski, another WNDU-TV 
engineer. 

1 
,j 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
i 
1 
1 
l ~ 
1 
1 1 
~ 

----~---------~---~-------------­


THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
John Abowd  Dan Thornton  
Editor-in-Chief  Business Manager  
News: 283-1715  
Don Ruane Executive Editor  Editorial: 283-8661 Business: 213-7..,1  Joe Butler Advertising Manager  

Monday, October 30, 1972 

No more years 
The chant has been ringing out "Four more years," as President ·Richard 
Nixon seeks  a  second  term  of office.  
However,  the  chant  should  read  "No  
more  years," because now,  more  than  

ever, it must be George McGovern. 
Senator George McGovern should be the next president of the United States. His plans, programs, and philosophy are what America needs to thaw it from the freeze of the Nixon years and to over­come the inertia of development these years have fostered. 
The Last Four Years 
What has happened in the last four years? In 1969, when Richard Nixon assumed the Presidency of the United States, the nation's university campuses were the hub of liberal-to-radical political activity. At Notre Dame the 1969-70 school year was indelibly marked by the moratoria of October and November and the general student strike in May. These were the loudest of the voices of protest raised against the most ill-considered military effort in recent history. These were the voices of protest that brought mainstream Americans into the ranks of those who favored an immediate end to the war in Vietnam. 
The outcome of the protests in the early period of the Nixon administration was a constant refusal on the part of the chief executive to acknowledge the existence of any deep-seated desire on the part of the American people to end the war soon. Instead Nixon successfully coopted the argument by greatly reducing the American ground troops in Vietnam while he steadily increased the damage wreaked on the land by mounting the fiercest air war in this country's history. The only sense in which one could say that Richard Nixon decelerated the war istomeasure that deceleration strictly in terms of the number of dead American Gl's. The wholsesale destruction of Vietnam-its people and its environment-­continues even now. 
Nixon's Procrastination 
If the results of Nixon's procrastination demonstrated any significant gains over a settlement early in his administration, the President's insensitivity to public opinion and the future livability of Viet­nam might be "forgivable. But an agreement to abide by the 1954 Geneva 
800PSIC, I/OW MIJNy I fVIf) Tll:1tf5 HAVE I me.o, 

1 10W Y()() NOT :J:.:J()STl (0 INTe.R.RUPT 
JVJo rvt 

: I P!2ACT1Ce.~ 
d 
I 

Accords, to reunify Vietnam by peaceful methods, to hold new elections in South Vietnam under international control and to "dress the wounds of war" in the Democratic Republic of Vietnam does not differ significantly from any solution which could have been found shortly after Nixon's inauguration. In short, it has taken Richard Nixon over 1400 days to do the thing he promised to do in 1460 days but could have done in 90 days. 
Where was McGovern? 
Where has George McGov~rn been· during this time? At least four times he proposed in the Senate of the United States that Congress force the President to end the war within the period of a couple of months. Each time the ~'End the War" amendment failed to reach the President's desk. But each time McGovern showed that he had a much deeper understanding of the realities of war--especially the. kind that so thoroughly destroys one small country at no risk to the destroyer. More im­portantly, McGovern constantly demonstrated a willingness to take his opinions to the American people\-the press and college campuses throughout the nation. 
Honesty vs. Deception 
Don't get the impression that the only issue is the war. In fact, if Nixon does succeed in ending the conflict the issue will be largely defused. Still, the war provides the one striking example that illuminates the fundamental difference between the Democratic challenger and the Republican incumbent. Itis precisely his honesty in dealing with the American public that puts McGovern legions above Nxon's deliberate attempt to deceive the country into believing that he has forced major concessions from North Vietnam in the course of his four years of con­tinued carnage and destruction. 
The Economy 
Domestically, McGovern offers a true commitment to reorder the spending priorities of the national economy. In his first two years as Presidnt, Nixon vetoed two major Health, Education and Welfare appropriations for educational aid. By terming domestic ap~ propriations "inflationary" while he 
Special Projects Editor: Dan Barrett Asst. Ad Manager: Patti Strobel • 
''H/INY F/IR/1 /INIH/11.-5 
OIP YOU

WeRe /2£PDR.T£0 TO 
HAVC" 8£6N l-OST IN 
HE11R /'1E?'

!/IE Rf1;o_ !Nct.IJIJING 
l'!J/JBY /J{ICks?
COWS, SHeeP, CHICkeNS 
11NO BilBY OVC!d't 
\
\ 

continued to spend huge sums of money on defense, Nixon showed that his con­cern for the domestic redevelopment of America is superficiaL McGovern, on the other hand, is very specific about where and how he will trim the defense budget. In addition, the McGovern policies clearly place domestic redevelopment programs on a higher priority level . than the development of new ways to feed the prolific Pentagon monster. 
College students, in particular, should feel the strength of the McGovern campaign. Many college students jeopardized their fredom and futures in order to protest policies which even the President admitted were basically wrong. Nixon's cry that he will not grant amnesty to those brave enough to stand up for their moral ideals is an insult to every college student--to every citizen-­who ever seriously believed in the in­dividual's power to influence his government. We must not believe that the only way to influence policy is to contribute huge sums of money to the campaign funds of the policy makers. We must not allow our political leaders to so easily insult the national intelligence. 
It's McGovern 

Itis too easy in an election year toforget the three years of an incumbent's ad­ministration that preceeded his bid for re-election. It is also too easy to lose sight of a challenger's past record in the swamp of accusations and counter­accusations. The Presidential election must not exist in the vacuum of political rhetoric. Richard Nixon has made a mockery of his promise to end the war in four years. And every step of the way George McGovern and his cohorts in the Senate called the President's bluff. The American people cannot allow the Presidency to continue to become an institution proud of its ability to defy the populace. President George McGovern. Now. 
The Editorial Board 
the observer 

Managing Editor: Joe Abell News Editor: Anthony Abowd St. Mary's Editor: Maria Gallagher Editorial Editor: Jerry Lutkus Features Editor: Rod Braye Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson Campus Editor: Ann Therese Darin Associate Editors: Bob Higgins, Ed Ellis 

l\usiness Secretary: Ceil Popovich 
Subscriptions Manager: Art Ferranti 
Production Manager: Joe Wilkowski 
Circulation: John Woods 
Night Editor: Marlene Zloza

NOT 
Ass't. Night Editor: Chris Sullivan
8178Y !JUCKS?I 
Layout: Kathy Kelly, Joe Abell 

0 
Copy Editors: Ed Ellis, Mike O'Hare
0 
Ray of Sunshine: Fred Headlines: John, Joe Night Controller: David Rust 

Editorials printed in The Ob­server reflect the opinion of fh writer on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial com­ment. 

Monday, October, 30, '1972 the observer 
5 

The Dne Last Weekend 
afew surprises, a great perfonnance 

pat small 
My opinion of Stephen Stills has never been consistent. I dug him with the Buffalo Springfield and in the early days of Crosby, Stills, and Nash. But his solo albums and his performance on CSN&Y's live album, left me somewhat disallusioned. He seemed to have ruined his singing style and his material was rather poor. Then came Manassas. It took time to get re-adjusted to him. but I began to enjoy the finer points of the album. It set me wondering how the concert would be. I knew it would be fairly interesting, but how good the music would be? I figured it would be nice just to see him but I was nervous as to how he would come off. 
My suspicions were soon dispelled, however, when the stage lights came on and the band broke into the first riffs of "Rock and Roll Woman." Wow!! It came off well with Chris Hilman upfront singing harmony with Stills and playing bass <Calvin Samuels was out for a week.) They followed with "Bound to Fall" and Johnny's Garden" which featured Stills on reverb guitar and playing wah-wah solos. 
The next song was perhaps the biggest shock of the night; "We're gonna .do an oldie" said Stills. All of a sudden--"So You Wanta Be A Rock and Roll Star." What a thrill! ! ! Even though Chris Hillman co­wrote the song with Byrd leader Roger McGuinn, I was amazed that they'd use it. It worked with Hillman singing lead and Stills playing excellent lead guitar. It was sort of descriptive of Stills ("the price you paid for your riches and fame, is it all a strange game, you're a little insane") and brought back a lot of memories. 
The first set finished with a song featuring Stills singing harrpony with his wah-wah 
lead lines. Sti1ls has got to be the best guitarist in so far as using the wah-wah pedal is concerned. Paul Harris also threw in a couple of good keyboard solos. 

sex and the single student 
This will not be an easy column for me to write. But I do feel the seriousness of the issue demands that I give it a try. 
For some time now I have been hearing suggestions that Notre Dame establish a birth control clinic on this campus. This bothers me for a number of reasons; I would like to very frankly share them with you. 
First of all, I suppose it would be helpful.to take a quick look at some of the reasons advanced against establishment of the clinic, none of which get at the heart of the matter, as far as I'm concerned. It could be argued that Notre Dame simply can't be expected to provide every service here on the campus for which students have some need. 
Another point could be made about already-existing services. It is simply not true, for example, according to the in­formation that has been given to me, that birth control clinics in the South Bend area are "swamped with work." Nor is it totally accurate to claim that appointments at these clinics are difficult to get. I'm advised that one can obtain an appointment in ap­proximately one-half the time it normally takes to get an appointment with one of South Bend's doctors. It is true that most of the cHnics are located in areas that are not the most convenient to reach (one would 
After a short intermission, the second set began with "wooden music." Stills came out by himself and played "Change Part­ners," which was probably his worst song, but it was acceptable. He then moved to banjo which got a little boring as he tried to tune it and at the same time establish a rapport with the audience. After a slight delay, he played "Know You've Got to Run." a little blues off of his second album. 
He moved back to guitar and did an acoustic version of Eric Clapton's "Crossroads" which had a raunchy vocal but fine guitar. He closed with the lyrical "Word Game." 
Chris Hillman <on 12 string) and Joe Lala (on percussion) joined Stills and played "Both of Us Bound to Lose" which rolled right into "Love the One Your With." 
rather expect that, inasmuch as the clinics are designed principally to assist the poor and disadvantaged); still, there is a clinic every Monday at Memorial Hospital in downtown South Bend 
But even should it not be true that those Notre Dame students who have decided they have need for such service can obtain it without undue inconvenience -even if this were not the case, Notre Dame would not want to establish a birth control clinic here on the campus. Let me try to explain why. 
What troubled me about the plea for such a clinic when I first started hearing about it some months back, was that it is based on the false presumption that rather significant numbers of students have suc­cessfully worked through the prior and most crucial question of the appropriatness of pre-marital intercourse. 
The presence of a birth control clinic on this campus, whether one likes it or not, is strongly symbolic. It does suggest, by its very presence, a rather general acceptance of pre-marital coitus. There is a great deal of difference between the dissemination of birth control information and the establish­m.~nt of a clinical facility on campus. As a m~tter of face, birth control information is certainly not totally unavailable on this 
Another surprise came when Stills and Hillman did "He Was a Friend of Mine," a tribute to the late John Kennedy written by Roger McGuinn and done by the Byrds on their second album. This was the audience participation song with half of them singing with Stills and the other half singing har­mony with Hillman. AlthQugh the updated lyrics, which mentioned Bobby Kennedy and dispelled <_>swald, we~e. fair, the message and feeling 'Y~re d~fmitely there. 
The rest of Manassas JOmed 1!1 at the end and crazy off-stage, but in a nice way. 
gave the song a country flair. 
The group then proceeded to do some country wi~h H~~lman playingr;t?ani:tolinsol~s ~nd featu~mg Fallen ~ag!~ , the Byrd s 
Your Still On My. Mmd , a;nd a new country ballad off their forthcommg album. This was indeed a great night for diehard Byrd fans. 
Stills moved over to piano to do "49 Reasons--For What It's Worth." He did an upbeat version of the songs featuring hood piano and percussion and, thank God, he didn't ramble for ten hours on "For What It's Worth" except for three lines: "This being an election year, all I can say is, vote Democratic." Right on, Steven! 
The band returned to rock with Hillman's "Lies" and proceeded to play most of side one of Manassas. 
Don't know (blush) what the first encore was but the second featured a lengthy version of "Find the Cost of Freedom", first with Stills alone and then in harmony with the group. It put the Four Way Street version to shame. 
I didn't get to talk to Stills very much after the concert but he did say that he foresaw a chance in the future to get together with Crosby & Co., "when the time is right" and he enjoys Manassas more than any other band he has been in, which is sort of the natural thing to say. The inimitable Kevin Dockrell has a taped interview with Stills and will probably get around to it on one of 
campus. The topic is covered in a class on human sexuality; it is easily found in basic works on sexuality in our bookstore and in the library. Furthermore, there is readily available a good number of counseling possibilities for those who are seeking for compassionate assistance in the very real struggle with questions about sexual ex­pression in human relationships. I'm very sure that there are quite a few on this campus who, like myself, consider it extremely important to offer themselves to students who are working through these questions. 
Nobody in their right mind is going to suggest that these possibilities manifest the condoning of pre-marital intercourse.The establishment of a birth control clinic, however, is quite another thing. It is comparable to the following situation: the topic of pornography may be considered in an academic atmosphere without any question of its being construed as an effort to condone pornography. But the establish­ment of a porno shop on this campus would be an entirely different matter altogether. 
The presence of a birth control clinic on 
this campus would be, at the very least, a 
subtle force suggesting that students need 
not become terribly concerned about the 
fundamental question of whether or not pre­
marital intercourse is an appropriate sexual 
expression for them. It suggests: 
"Everybody is pretty well decided for pre­
marital .intercourse whenever convenient, 
so we can get on to the subsequent question 
of considering the most advisable con­
traceptive plan to follow." 
This kind of presumption doesn't just 
bother people like me; it bothers a lot of 
students also. It seems to take a serious 
question of human relationships far too 
lightly. It presumes too casually that they 
have already worked through one of the 
most pivotal problems of you~g adulthood. 
Over the past ten years I have spent a lot 
of time with high school and college 
students, and many of them would object 
very strongly to the presence of a birth 
control clinic on this campus because of the 
presumption I have spoken of. A number I 
have talked to about this consider it a bit of 
an insult to presume that Christian students his shows. 
I talked more with Chris Hilman, who really proved himself Friday night. His singing and playing complimented Stills excellently. I asked about the breakup of the "Flying Burrito Bros." (his former group): "It wasn't happening any more" and also why he joined Stills. Conspicuously taking me aside he said aloud: "Do you really want to know?" and the rest of the band broke up in Iaugher: Hillman is really 
Hillman did have great 'news for the future. He said that himself and the other original Byrds, Crosby, McGuinn, Gene and Mike Clarke, are cutting an album in a couple of weeks to be released in January. If the Byrds can keep their egos down it should be a great album. ' 
Perhaps I've strayed too far from Stills, but in closing I'd have to say it was one of the best concerts I've ever seen and I left the 
the ACC quite happy that there was Still some good music around. 
father william toohey 
in any general way have already decided for 
pre-marital intercourse. What about the 
serious consideration of whether or not 
relationships are such that coitus becomes 
an appropriate expression, they wonder. 
The most perceptive of them can clearly see 
that intercourse must occur in the context of 
full commitment. The problem with pre­
marital intercourse is that it may very well 
be pre-commitment commitment. That is to 
say, it may, in· itself, be a very beautiful and 
highly symbolic expression, but one which 
does not find authenticity in a particular 
case in reallity. People can be very deeply 
hurt when, as Rollo May puts it, there is 
physical commitment without emotional ­
spiritual commitment. 
Sexual expression is a truly beautiful complement to a human relationship if what it says is really true. The whole business is tricky because we are tricky human beings, and we can so easily kid ourselves and others. The principle of living we find in the New Testament is that we are always to do the most loving thing; but at times the most loving thing might just not be "making love." The most loving thing is, oftentimes, the most painful thing; and, for most of us, this most frequently is to force ourselves to be consistent with the truth of the matter. If two people are not totally united, completely given to one another, to gesture this replaces authenticity with untruth. 
There is no need to apologize for taking so 
seriously questions that students are anguishing over. The fact that we do not have a birth control clinic at this place, but do have a considerable number of people (students, faculty, priests) who are very eager to be available for those who may1 wish to share a personal struggle with them -this fact is a profound affirmation that there is at this place an earnest concern for the most fundamental questionso.f life. It says that we take seriously the key to life offered by the man Jesus. He asks us to be real; to be true to ourselves and to one another. He asks that the quality of our relationships be truly authentic and honest, and of such a quality that we become for one another means to grow and become the full persons he destines us to be. Here is a cause 
-a possibility worth the quest. 




_ __j 
-~ -~-----­
-

Monday, October 30, 1972

the observer
6 

President Nixon is still ahead in electoral votes 
did in his 1952 landslide win.
by Jack Rosenthal 
Nevertheless, McGovern
(cl 1!172 New York Times significantly narrowed the Nixon 

Washington, October 29--Despite lead among some critical blocs, further gradual gains by Sen. ntoably union members and white George McGovern, President collar workers. In two weeks, the Nixon held a massive lead in McGovern deficit among union potential electoral votes as the members had dropped from 18 Massachusetts, site of extensive~ antiwar sentiment. The survey showed him Jeadin~ there, but by Jess than the statistical margin of error. The state was thus listed as in doubt. 
The other 15 states in the survey fell into two categories, one was 
presidential campaign entered its points to 8· states in which the Nixon fead final two weeks, according to the This gain was paralleiedby. fur-exceeded 22 points--more than fourth New York Times ther improvement in McGovern's could be accounted for by statistic-
Yankelovich survey . standing on some domestic issues. 
The survey. of thP 16 states with By a 4-3 margin, the voters said the largest number of electoral they believed he would do a better votes, indicated that if tht> Plection job of closing tax loopholes, for had just been held, Nixon could instance. Six weeks ago, Nixon have laid claim to 318 electoral had a slight lead on this issue. votes in these states alone and The question raised bv the McGovern to none with 14 left in gradual but steady McGovern doubt. A total of 270 is required for gains is whether they can match or Plection. exceed the dramatic rally made b) 
At the same time, the survey, SenHubertH. Humphrey in the last jointly sponsored with Time 14 days of his 1968 race against Magazine found that many voters Nixon and Gov. George C Wallace have no great liking for either of Alabama. candidate and that as the cam-A comparison of Gallup Poll paign draws to a close, public findings so far this year with those intrrf'st appears to be declining. of 1968 discloses two parallels. One 
~nterviewing for the survey was is the similiarity of Nixon's per· finished l1ve days ago. Thus it centages this yar wnn the com· '·oull;l provide no measure of the bined Nixon-Wallace percentages 
possible political impact of a \ 1etnam peace agreement. But ,IM·t of that, it offered the following conclusions: 
--Nixon held clear leads in ten 
states, with 183 electoral votes, and les!> certain leads in fove states, with 135. In the 16th state, Massachusetts, the race ap­per a red to be a toss-up. 
--The survey of 3,010 registered voters, interviewed between Oc­tober 17 and 24, found Nixon leading with 56 per cent of the vote to 30 per cent for McGovern. This meant the Democratic candidate had drawn. four percentage points 
in 1968. 
<Of those decided voters who woulcl prefer Governor Wallace. this vear, 75 per cent are in the Nixon column.) 
The other is the similarity of the McGovern and Humphrey stan­dings, with both showing in­creasing progress at the end of the campaign. Humphrey gained 
11 
points in the last wo weeks, pulling within a point of Nixon both in the final Gallup poll and in the election result. 
Whether the McGovern line can curve p that fast cannot be foretold, particularly in light of the 

closer to N1:'on than the 57-'1:7 result recent Vietnam developments. 
of the prev1~us surve~, tak.en two 
weeks earlier. But 1t still left 
McG~vern ~6 points behind the 
Pr~s1dent :-v1th only two weeks left 
until electiOn day. 

If undecided voters who "lean" 
to one candidate are included, the 
total would be Nixon ahead 59 to 33. 
This finding is similar to the last 
Gallup poll result that shows Nixon 
I ea ding 59 to 36. McGovern has gained significantly in the New York-New Jersey-Connecticut region. Nixon still leads 51 to 35, a 16-point spread. But two weeks ago, he led by 23 points. 
-The Democratic nominee also 
appears to be gaining rapidly in 
Michigan. But Nixon retains · sizable leads in other major in­
dustrial states like Ohio, Illinois, 
and Pennsylvania. 

--The Watergate bugging in­
cident and associated charges 
about a secret Republican cam­
paign fund appeared not to have 
swung may voters to McGovern.· 
When asked whether either can­
didate had conducted a "dirty and 
unscrupulous ampaign," "slightly 
more of the voters interviewed 
answered "McGovern" than 
"Nixon." 

Nixon continued to lead among 
all categories of voters except 
Democrats, blacks, Jewsl. and 
college youth. And he was running 
comparatively well even among 
these groups. For example, he was 
attracting 35 per cent of the 
Democratic vote, far more than the 
23 percent President Eisenhower 
Red Cross blood 

drive meets No't. 1 
The ND-SMC Red Cross Blood 
Program will have its general 
organizational meeting Wed­
nesday, November 1, at 7:00pm in 
Nieuwland Science Hall. 

The meeting will outline the 
purposes of the blood giving 
program. Many Notre Dame 
students have given blood for 
various medical reasons through 
the Red Cross before. For more 
information contact Pete Meade at 
3412. 
These could benefit Nixon as being a peace maker--or, as in the view of McGovern campaigners, they could boomerang, possibly con­veying an impression that th~ timing was politically motivated· 
McGovern's position as •·' leading critic of the war .\t"as reflect£>d in his strong stan~rig in 
· cal error even in states in which small samples were surveyed. 

Nixon had such clear leads in these 10 states <Electoral votes follow\· 
Pennsylvania, 27; Illinois, 26; Texas, 26; OhiO, 25; Florida, 17; Indiana, 13; North Carolina, 13; Georgia, 12; Missouri, 12; and Virginia, 12. 
The second category was states in which the Nixon lead was less certain, ranging between 12 and 22 points. This probably is more than· could be accounted for by statistical error. These states were: California, 45; New York, 41; Nw Jersev. 17: and Wisconsin,ll. 
Beyond such specific findings/ there were among the 240 pages of dense computer tabulations a number of indications of voter indifference, impatience, or of cttoosing the less undesirable candiate. 
One such sign was in the answers 
the voters gave when asked whom 
they regard as a more attractive· 
personality, Nixon, McGovern, or 
neither. "Neithe(' won, with 37 
per cent of the vo~ 
Although 56 per cent of the 
sample said they would vote for 
him, Nixon attracted only 33 per 
cent in answer to this question. 
McGovern received 23 per cent. 
Barely half of each candidate's 
declared supporters described him 
as the more attractive personality. 
Another sign of indifference 
came in the response to 
questioning about how interested 
the voters were in the campaign. 
Six weeks ago, 48 per cent said 
they were "very interested." In 
the New Survey, the figure fell to 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
In the 16-state survey, 250 voters w£>re interviewed in each of the seven largest states and about 140 in each of the other nine. The results were weighted according to the size of each state to provide over-all findings. 
Sampling error for these over-all findings could account for variations of three percentage points up or down in the newest survey and four points in the three previous ones. The tolerance for the findings from each of the seven largest states is six points. Forthe tri-state region, it is five points. 

The following table summarizes the over-all voter preference finding for the series of four sur­veys. Undecided voters who said the "leaned" toward a candidate are left in the "not sure"category. 
August 22 September 25 October 15 October 30 
Nixon  56 per cent  56  57  56  
McGovern  28 per cent  23  27  30  
Not Sure  16 per cent  15  16  14  

IIIRIIIUIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII.mHIIIUIIIIHIIIII 
DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND 
'''"int MICHAEl SACKS RON LEIBMAN VAlERIE PERRINE 
AUnivtnol PICI,.t in TECHNICOLOR• 
Feature Times 1:45-3:45-5:45 
7:45-9:45 
39 per cent. 
The survey also indicated that to the voters interviewed the contest appears to be a matter of choosing the least undesirable candidate. One sign of this belief related to the cost of living. 
When asked if theythoughtNixon was doing all he could to hold 
prices down, 50 per cent said "no" and 44 per cent said "yes"--the worst Nixon standing on this issue since an August survey. But when the voters were asked whether he would do a better job of 
restraining prices than McGovern, Nixon cam out well ahead, 43 per cent to 27 per cent. 

HOW ABOUT YOU? Want Something Special? THEN YOU'RE NAVY 
The New Breed is with it-smart-alert-responsible-motivated­
inquisitive and savvy about what makes the world go... and 
eager to go with it. 
You will be trained in the nations top technical centers to 
operate the latest scientific, electronic and nuclear powered 
equipment. 
A Navy Information Team will be on campus OCTOBER 30­
31. A NAVY T-34 aircraft will also be available for demon­stration rides. 
WILL YOUR FUTURE BE SOMETHING SPECIAL? 


FREE MOVIE 

presented by 

S.U. SOCIAL COMMISSION Steve McQueen in 

"THE REIVERS" 

Engineering Auditorium Wednesday 8 &10 p.m. 
Place:~liiiL Bureau tnterviews Week of NOVt>mht'r b, 1972 
Interviews are for seniors and graduate students. Sign-up schl~d­ules are in Room 207, ~1ain Bldg. InterviE-w times mmH be scl('Ct("d and signed for in per:::aon. Hours are 8:00a.m. to j:OO p.m. each day. except Friday. The Placement Manua 1 gives 11ddit iona 1 in fonM • t ior. rPgArdtng interviews and procedures. 
NOV.  6  American 011  Company and Amoco Chemicals  Corporation.  
HS,  Ph.D.  in Ch.JL  and Chern.  
College Life  Insurance Co.  
All  degreeA and majora.  
Marquette University.  MBA  Program.  
All undergraduates.  
Republic  Steel Corporation.  
BS  in  E.E.,  M.E.,  Met.  BBA  in Acct.  
Scott  Paper Company.  
BA,  BBA  and MBA.  
Sears,  Roebuck and Co.-Corporate Tax  Dlvi•ion  
BBA  ln Acct.  MBA.  
NOV.  6  Texaco  Inc.  
& 7  BS,  Jo5  in Ch.E.  and  H.E.  BS  in E.E.,  C.E.  and Grol.  
NOV.  7  Eastman  Kodak Co.  
BS,  Jofi  ln  Phys., Chem.,  Ch.E., M.E.,  M,E.I.O.  and  E.E.  
National  Steel Corp.  
BS  ln Ch.E., C.E.,  E.E.,  H.E.  and M.E.J.O.,  Mot.  
IBM Corporation.  
BA,  MA,  DBA,  MBA,  BS,  HS  for  Mkt.  Rep.  in South Bend.  
Procter & Gamble Co.  -Plant  Management.  
BS,  MS  ln Ch.E., M.E.,  E.E., M.E.I.O.,  MBA with  tech.  
undergrad.  
Procter & Gamble  Co.  -Research  & Development.  
BS,  MS  in Ch.E.  MBA with undergrad.in Ch.E.  or Chern.  
PrOC'ter & Gamble Co.  -Management Systema.  
BS.  MS  in all Engr.  and Sci.  MBA with  tech  underRrad.  
NOV.  8  St.nmons Company.  

BIIA in Mkt. 

NCN'. 8 Alexander Grant & Co. & 9 BBA in Acct. 
NOV. 8,9 Cornell University. MBA Program. & 10 All Baccalaureate degrees. 
NOV. 9 Associates corporation of North America. 
MBA with Accounting and Finance backgrounds. 
Leeds & Northrup Company. 
8S in E.E. and H.E. Olin Corporation. 8S in E.E. BS, MS in Chem., Ch.E., Met., l'I.E. 

BBA in Acct •• Mkt., Fin. MBA. (~~~~g;o~~~~).Mkt.,t-~tn. 
NOV. 10 Carnation Company. BA and BRA. IBM Corporation. All Bach. and Mastera for sales. BS in E.E. for !>ev.En~r. 
Mutual Life Insurance Co. of New York. 
AA, 8BA. snd MBA. 
l.:mpi.u)'t:r iufuuN:t.lion. .\1 t~rnntfve~. ft~achin~. Act ton/Peacf' Corpa/Vtsta. Federal Service. ROOO> 222, Admlnistrat ion Rid~. 

10/26/72 


Michigan jayvees avenge early loss 

Irish Jayvees Friday. 

by Greg Corgan If Gordon Bell had gotten his wish last year, the Irish junior varsity would have at least one less loss on their season record. Bell, a fleet, 5-9, 176-pound freshman tailback from Troy, Ohio, wanted more than anything else to go to Notre Dame but, as things turned out, he wound up at Michigan and showed the Irish just what they missed Friday afternoon on Cartier Field. With Michigan trailing 3-0, Bell caught an 11-yard touchdown pass on the first play of the fourth quarter to put the Wolverines on the scoreboard. Ron Dudzik booted the extra point and the junior Irish found themselves down, 7-3. Until then, neither team had been able to generate much of­fense. Michigan was bothered by fumble problems and Notre Dame's only score came on Rick Slager's 30-yard field goal in the second quarter. After Bell gave Michigan the lead, the Irish bounced back, marching 70 yard in 13 plays to go ahead, 10-7. The drive was highlighted by a 33-yard, Slager pass to sophomore tight end Ed Bauer, who made a sensational, diving catch on the U.M. 34 yard line. Six plays later, halfback Tony Brantley slid off right end behind a fine block by Dennis Lozzi for nine yards and the touchdown. Jack Stephan booted the extra point with a little over 10 minutes to play in the game. But Bell . quickly turned things around again. Following a solid Wolverine defensive effort the Irish were forced to punt 'from their own 42. Dave Schwarber boomed a low line drive towards Bell, who bobbled the ball on the three yard line, then picked it up cut right, and bolted 65 yards down the right sideline to the N.D. 30. 
After an illegal procedure call, 
James White for 15 yards and the first down. 
White then carried the ball for three yards, Bell added two and, on third down, Bee! hit split end Keith Johnson with a 10-yard scoring toss. Dudzik kicked the extra point. 
The junior Irish tried desperately to come back but a fake punt play that didn't work and a last minute fumble enabled Michigan to run out the clock and boost its record to 3-1. The Wolverines' only defeat came to the Irish three weeks ago in Ann Arbor, 17-7. 
White led all rushers with 80 yards in 15 carries while Beel was six for eight in passing, for 83 
· yards, to lead the Michigan at­tack. 
TEAM STATISTICS 
ND MI('H 

First Downs . 19 13 Rushing. 9 7 Passing 9 6 Pena !ties I 0 Yards Rushing I'IP IRI Lost Rushing . 44 46 Net Rushing 135 135 
Times Carried 48 56 
Passes . 31 II Completed 14 7 Had Intercepted . . 0 0 Yards Passing 175 101 
Total Plays . . 79 67 
Michigar. .. 0 0 0 14-14 
Notre Dame. . . . . . 3 0 0 7-10 NO-Rick Slager 30 Field goal M-Gordon Bell 11 pass from Joe 
Bee! (Ron Dudzik kick) ND-Tony Brantley 9 ron (Stepan kick) M--Keith Johnson 10 pass from Bee! (Dudzik kick) 
Individuals 
RUSHING Notrl' Dami'-Tony Bran· tley. 15 for 41; Tom Bake. 14 for 38; Tom PariSI'. 13 for 34; Frank Allocco. 4-26; Rick Slager, 2 for minus 4. MICHl· GAN -Jaml's White, 15 for 80; Mike Strabley, 15 for 41; Gordon Bell. 9 for 27, Eduardo Gonzalez. I for 12; Jeff Spahn. 3 for I; Ron Carpenter. I -minus 7; Joe Bee!. 12 for manus 17 
Pa~sing: Notre Dame-Rick Slager. 7 of 19 for 123 yards; Frank Allocco. 6of 11 for 48; Tony Brantley, 1 for 1. 4 yards. MICHIGAN-Jeff Spahn, I of 2 for 18; JO<' Bee!, 6 of 8 for 83; Jim White, zero of I. 
RECEIVING-NO-Kevin Doherty, 7 for 83: Ed Bauer, 3 for 51; Lennie Moly,
the Wolverines faced a third-and-· 2 for 35; Tom PariSI', 2 for minus 6. MICHIGAN-Gordon Bell, 2 for 29;
15 situation on the Irish 35 but 
Keith Johnson, 4 for 50; James White. I
quarterback Joe Bee! hit tailback for 22. 
AFINO: 
Although his club came out on the short end of the score, Irish coach Denny Murphy was happy with his team's overall per­formance. 
"We played well," he said. "This was a hard one to lose. We established our running attack in the first half and, in the second half, we came out passing. We fought like tigers." 
Murphy cited two crucial plays as making the difference in the game-the punt return by Bell and the third down pass to White late in the fourth quarter which gave the Wolverines a first down on the N.D. 22. 
Speaking of Bell, Murphy remarked, "When he dropped that punt, I figured we had him. That play and the long third down pass made the difference in the ball game." 
Brantley was the leading rusher for the Irish, picking up 41 yards in 15 carries. Although normally a quarterback, Brantley was ap-. proached by Murphy on Thursday and asked to fill in at halfback. 
"With only one day's notice, Tony did an exceptional job. I was poeased with his performance," Murphy added. 
Along with Brantley, Murphy cited outstanding performances by split end Kevin Doherty, quar­terbacks Rick Slager, and Frank Allocco and tight end Bauer. 
"Douherty did an excellent job," said Murphy. "I was impressed with his elusiveness after catching the ball. Rick and Frank both played well and I had planned using them equally in the ball game. It just happened we were out to establish the running game in the first half and came out passing in the second. Allocco was six for 11 passing for 48 yards in the first half and Slager, seven of 19 for 123 in the second. 
Next Friday afternoon in N.D. Stadium, the Irish have a rematch with the Spartans of Michigan State, who won the teams' first meeting in East Lansing, 26-14. 

Quality Name 
at the RED DOOR CLUB ~~01!. ANBTONIGHT!  
CLASSIFIED ADS  
FOR RENT WANTED Groovy room tor rent. Close to Need ride to Pittsburgh Nov. 2 or 3ND; bus; Call 289·6581 Suzy-8031 FOR SALE JETHRO T~LL IN CONCERT NEXT Tl'ESDAY, NOVEMBERDesperately need to sell Air Force 7 AT FORT WAYNEgame-trip·hotel ticket. urgeny. COLOSSEL1M. NEED RIDESMike 272·2974 FOR 2. WILL SHARE EX­PENSES. PLEASE CALL 8253STITCH has incense, handmade belts, purses, candles, earrings, Child care needed: Person (s)and clothes. Corner of South· Bend wanting to care for 2 children inAve. and St. Louis Blvd. Phone childs home on Tues. and Thurs.232-4014 8:30am-4:30pm, please call 234­0332 or 283·6273Must sell: Dorm -size refrigerator 2.1 cu. ft. Excellent condition Driving to Na.vy Game? If so 1Sacrifice­$45.00 Call 1365 after 6:30 need a ride to Philly, New York or vicinity, able to leave Nov. 1, will share expenses. Paul 7861NOTICES Europe over Christmas! Fly with Miami G.A. needed, call Don 7471 or 234·6267the best.fly BOAC $213 round trip! British overseas Airways. Corp. Call Clark 283·8810 for details. Need 3 general admission tickets to Miami game 4635 Piano lessons: Call Eddie Sears 232·6882; $5-hour; $3 . '12 hour. Wanted: Ride to Detroit. Will share driving, expenses. Call Joe, 1412Typi.ng: Essay.Term Paper­TheSIS Desertation-Technical or Needed: Ride to New Jersey (onResearch Report. We do them East) Nov, 3. Call 8027Professionally, Efficiently, and Reasonably. Expert Secretarial Need ride to Philly for NavyService. 233-9466 or 233-3257 Game. Will share expenses. Can HELP the helpless unborn, with Leave Friday. Call 4151 time, money or both. Right to Life, Inc. 233·4295 Need ride to Pittsburgh. Weekend of Nov. 4 will pay. Katie 5770 Duck Soup, Wheels and Mr. z Free far.outs undE'·. ...lti«en pencil tree. i'1Y l'EAL1X ARTS BALL Arch. L'ldg. Nov. 4 Need Apartment for second THE BOARS HEAD semester able to: move in in Opening in November December. Call Fred 1487 A young organization with a new concept Need ride to Pittsburgh Nov. 2or 3 4104in cining, featuring a limited steak and ·Desperately need ride to Chicagolobster menu. We are now completing Friday Nov. 3after 4 will pay Call Scott: 1791construction of our building which uses Need ride to Wash, D.C., N.Y. orold EngIish decor and five fireplace to Phila can leave Thurs. Eve. call 1244. Will payadd to a warm and elegant at. mosphere. LOST AND FOLINOACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR Lost: N.D. Class ring at SMC.cooks, bartenders, waiters, name inside· Please call 3667.waitresses cashiers, dishwashers, dining PI:RSONALroom work We'll be hiring about 60 full and Roach Woman,part time All my love from L.A.people for our opening crew. RuthieAn excellent opportunity for a "fun" and interesting job Mary,for the school year and summer Happy 6th and many more.Please apply in person at the StephenBoar's Head 31 North-Next to Howard Johnson's ERestaurant 9a.m. to 6p.m. Ask for Henry or Bill  

STOCK 
UP: 
BUTTON DOWN 


DRESS SHIRTS 
Compare to shirts costing for more 
$10 

These exciting new shirts 
feature double button cuff, 
longer collar with stays. 
Abailable in Baroque Oxford 
or fine traditional twills, in 
Burgundy, Blue, Brown, 
Cream or Red. These great 
buys  come  from  our  large  
selection  of dress and  sport  
shirts.  Look 'em over.  

Use your exclusive Campus Shop account.. you never pay a service or carrying charge. 

__________O_N_TH_E CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAME 
j 
j 
J 
~ 
4 
j j 
I 
l 
~ 
1 
j .. J 
t 
the observer Monday, October 30, 1972
8 



Irish bounce back, smash TCU 

by Vic Dorr (57 yards) and Eric Penick01 yards). But the Irish attack, while 
The similarities were there. The piling up a large statistical edge,
wPather was nearly as bad, the was bothered by turnovers <fourfiPid was nearly as sloppy, and the fumbles and one interception),visiting team was nearly as and--until the halfway point of thedetermined. 
third period--it was left to theBut when Saturday's game was were dPfensive platoon to hold the Frogs over. it was the Irish who in check.
mjoying a winning locker room, And the defense, wounded by lastand it was Texas Christian's Wl.'!'k 's loss to Missouri, andllorned Frogs--shut out for the first angered by statements made bytime this season--who were beaten 
TCU running back Mike Luttrell,and subdued. 
did just that. 'They limited the"We got beat by a good football Frogs to eight first downs, 70team." admitted TCU Coach Billy rushing yards, and 132 yardsTohill after his 21-0 setback: overall. They forced four tur­"Notre Dame is very tough to stop novers themselves, and theyand we werPn 't able to move the limited Luttrell, who hadfootball on them, either. They're previously been gaining 6.3 yardsbigger and stronger than most per carry, to 26 yards in 13 at­other people we've seen this tPmpts.
season. 
"Luttrell apparently was quoted"They didn't do anything to in a Fort Worth paper that he wassurprise us. Notre Dame ran the not impressed by Notre Dame'ssamt> offense they've been running defPnse," said ND Coach Araall along, but they just ran it better Parseghian. "Our players werethan they did last week." 

aware of that comment."
The offense that so impressed Tohill picked up 520 yards overall The two teams scrapped through <all but 88 of them on the ground) a scoreless first quarter, but the 
and scored on three big plays--an first of several big plays by the ND It-yard pass from Tom Clements defense -Ken Schlezes' in­to .lim Roolf, and runs by Art Best terception of a Perry Senn pass-
Jim DonaI dson :===========================================================;;=========================================== 
The Irish Eye 
::=================;;:::::: Let your defense do the talking 
Folks do things big down Texas way. Everything is supposed to be bigger and better in the Longhorn State than anywhere else. Especially football teams and, shore nuf, football players. 
Mike Luttrell was a big man at Western Hills high school in Fort Worth, where he was twice all-state aPd district player of the year. When he graduated, Luttrell saw no need to leave Texas, or even Fort Worth, and accepted a scholarship at Texas Christian University. 
It didn't take long for the talented Luttrell to become an even bigger man in Fort Worth. He was voted the Southwest Conference's freshman offensive player of the year, and he was the Horned Frogs' leading rusher. averaging 6 yards per carry. 
Then Luttrell made a mistake--a big mistake, naturally. He did some hig talking to one Fort Worth new!'paperman who had asked the young star what he thought about Notre Dame's defense. Lutrell, who had just watched the movies of Missouri's upset of the Fighting Irish, remarked that he "wasn't impressed" by Notre Dame. And, when the Irish defense heard about those comments, coming on the heels of criticism for their performance against Missouri, they made up their minds to show Luttrell and their other detractors just how tough they could be. 
"I like people to say things like Luttrell said," linebacker Drew Mahalic said. "It gives a team added incentive." 
Mike Townsend, who intercepted a pair of TCU passes, said "Luttre!l's comments affected Ara and they affected me. We had to prove something today. We had to prove that we could hit and play defense." 
"After he made those statements," defensive co-eaptain and tackle GregMarxcommented, "We knew that either we would lose our pride, or TCU would lose a football game today." 
Lots of people think that nobody's prouder than a Texan, except a Texas football player. But those people just don't know what Notre Dame pride is like. 
"We've got something you can't put on paper, something you call pride," Marx sid. "You can't teach it. It's got to be in you. Nobody is going to badmouth Notre Dame and be glad they did." 
Texas Christian certainly wasn't. Neither was Luttrell. The Irish handed the Frogs their first shutout of the season and their second loss in six games, 21-o, 'Saturday in Notre Dame Stadium, limiting Luttrell to 25 yards in 13 carries. In his three previous starts, Luttrell had gained over 
· 100 yards rushing each time. "Our kids were aware of Luttrell's comments," was all coach Ara Parseghian would say about the feud between his defense and the TCU star. but Marx, who raged all over the field smashing TCU ball carriers, wasn't so reticent. "Ask Luttrell how many yards he got. Ask him how hard we hit. Ask him if this was a Notre Dame defense." "I figurr 1 all along that we'd be up for this game," Marx continued. "Notre D. e teams have always come back after a loss and we didn't want to bt 1e exception. We had made up our minds to get up on the ball today anc 10t give up the line-of scrimmage like we did against Missouri. Marx a ·is teammates did just that, as Parseghian was quick to point out. "TCU l• ed at a different defense today," he said. "If our defense had played a~ ·ll against Missouri as theydidtoday, the results would have been diff· nt." "Our d ;e was really a Notre Dame defense today," he added. "They w uper." The Iri , ve•up just 132 total yards to the Horned Forgs, 70 rushing and 62 t1 n the air. In contrast, Notre Dame pounded out 432 yards rushing <. lded 88 yards passing for a total of 520. Speed Eric Penick and Art Best paced the irish ground game, Penick g. ;g the tremendous total of 158 yards in 16 carries, and Best picking u · yards in seven carries. Both scored touchdowns. 
Despitt turnovers-four fumbles and two interceptions-the Irish offense Ii. · 11e defense, was well, impressive. If not to Luttrell, certainly to the Frog:;' coach Billy Tohill. 
"We were beaten by a good football team," he said. "They're big strong, and tough to stop, bigger and stronger tha most people we have seen." 
Asked about the Irish defense, Tohill responded, "Mter they beat you 21-o, you have to say they played well." Even Luttrell,as soon as he feels it's safe to talk again, might be in­clined to agree. 
Touchdown no. I 
nements tosses to Roolf 
Touchdown no. 3 
Penick goes 10 
yards through 
a big hole set the Irish up at midfield with 
0:33 left in the initial period. 
From there, Tom Clements took his team in for the score in seven plays. The big gainer of the drive was Andy Huff's 14-yard scamper <to the TCU 16), and the touchdown came when Clements lofted a pass to Jim Roolf, who was wide qpen in the right side of the end zone. 
"On that touchdown pass," said TCU's Tohill, "We were in man pass coverage, and they crossed their on-side end and our safety didn't pick him up." The tally was a Notre Dame first for Roolf, who played the game with a broken finger. 
"I've never even scored a touch­down in a scrimmage," he said. "The touchdown was the same play I didn't finish running last wt>ek against Missouri <a two­point conversion try). It's been a long road waiting for that one." 
The Clements-to-Roolf touch­down stood up for the rest of the game. but two pass interceptions by Mike Townsend and a fumble recovery hy Tim Sullivan kept the 
Horned Frogs at bay until the Irish 
offense could shake loose from a 
stiff Texas Christian defense. The 
Irish left the field at the halftime 
break with a 7-o lead, but freshman 
Art Best's second career touch­
down broke the game open midway 
through the third period. 
Following a TCU punt, the Irish 
took possession at their own 34. 
Three plays later, from the 43, Best 
swept right end, turned the corner 
behind a sharp block from Eric 
Freistroffer faces knee surgery 
Notre Dame's injury list con­tinued to grow Saturday as the Irish lost defensive end Tom Freistroffer for the remainder of the season with a torn knee ligament. 
Freistroffer, a senior from Fort Wayne, Ind., had been starting for the Irish almost since the begin­ning of the year. He faces surgery sometime this week. 
Penick and outran the Frog secondary to the end zone. 
And it was Penick who collected NO's final score of the afternoon. Late in the fourth quarter, with possession at midfield, Clements sprung Roolf on an end-reverse that carried for 36 yards to the Texas Christian 14. Fullback John C'ies~kf>wski gained three yards to the 11, and from there Penick darted through the left side of the line and scored. Bob Thomas added the third of three conversion kicks to give the Irish their final margins. 
Penick, despite a pair of fum­bles. turned in his best effort of the year, gaining 158 yards in 16 carries. "We proved we were a regular Notre Dame team," he said. "We had a lot to prove after last week." 
The win, Notre Dame's fifth left the Irish with a 5-1 slate going' into next week's clash with Navy in Philadelphia. The Middie's record dropped to 3-4, following a 17-16 loss to Duke. 
Touchdown no. 2 
Rest sprints 57 yards 
And the angry defense shutout the Frogs. 




