

On The Inside 
co-ex dining outlined... p 4 Activities Night Wed ... p 2 




serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Monday September 11, 1972

Vol. VII No. 4 

U.S. vetoes UN Middle East peace resolution 
by Robert Alden equally at preventing Israeli said. 
during the India-Pakistan fighting, Syrian government continues to
<c> 1972 New York Times military and Arab terrorist action. He then offered a resolution "when there was also a crisis in­harbor and to give aid and en­The voting on these amendments condemning "the senseless and 
volving the loss of human lives, couragement to terrorist
United Nations, N.Y., Sept. 10-­was complicated. But at least one unprovoked terrorist attack in some of the same delegations now organizations which openlyThe United States vetoed a part of them was locked because Munich" and calling upon "Those 
opposing delay in voting had asked champion such acts."
security council resolution tonight of a joint veto by the Soviet Union states harboring and supporting for a 24-hour postponement of Bush then said that Syria was notthat would have called for im­
and China. such terrorists and their activities voting to seek instructions." alone in its encouragement ofmediate cessation of military All through a long day of debate, to cease their encouragement and In his statement to the Council, terrorism and that certian otheroperations in the Middle East, but the United States had taken a s.upport of terrorists and to take all Bush dropped diplomatic governments in the area :'Whether which failed to take cognizance of determined stand that Israel could necessary measures to Ormg about amenities and pulled no punches, by word and deed or by silentthe terrorist acts in Munich that not be condemned for reprisal the immediate end of such sen­to the obvious relish of the crowded acquiescence and failure toled to the retaliatory Israeli air provoked by Arab terrorism. seless acts." 
public gallery at the Security disassociate thenselves from thestrikes against Syria and Lebanon. Bush told the Security Council Somalia, along with the Sudan Council. 
acts of a minority that preachesSpeaking for the United States, today that states which harbor and and Guinea, introduced a He said that until a few days ago and practices law lessness andits permanent representative here, give succor to terrorists cannot resolution calling upon "the the world had again dared to hope violence, cannot be absolved ofGeorge Bush said that it was claim sanctuary for themselves. parties concerned" to cease im­because a climate of responsibility for the cycle ofimpossible to isolate cause and 
The Council had been called into mediately all military operations. reasonableness and realism 
violence and counterviolence we
effect --the attack by Arab an emergency Sunday session on This resolution made no reference seemed to be developing in the have again witnessed this past
terrorists on the Israeli team in the request of Syria and Lebanon to the violence in l'.Iunich. Mideast' week."
Munich and the Israeli reprisals. as a result of a series of Israeli air The African countries, with the "Then came 'Munich' -the "We believe each member of the
Thirteen countries had voted for raids that had been touched off by support of the Soviet Union, senseless act of terrorism there Council, indeed of the entire in­
the cease-fire resolution sponsored the killing of 11 Israelis by Arab Yugoslavia and India, pushed which cast a pall over these hopes. ternational community, shouldby Somalia. Guinea and terrorists at the Munich Olym -strongly for a quick vote invoking Yet we are now meeting on a make it unmistakably clear thatYugoslavia. Panama abstained 
pies. an immediate cease-fire in the complaint by Syria --a complaint acts of terror and violence prac­
and the l rnited States cast its But Bush said that the one-sided Middle East. 
that stands out for its unreality. It ticed against innocent people as anegative vote. which occasioned an resolutions against Israel that the But the European Bloc, joined by makes no reference to the tragic matter of policy are unacceptableoutburst of applause from the Council had so often passed not Argentina. 1insisted that they events at Munich," Bush said. in civilized world.
public, seated in the Security only did not contribute to the goal needed time to consult with their "Did the Syrian government join "Each of us had a responsibility
Council chamber. of peace but rather encouraged governments. Yakov A. Malik, the in complaint or expression of to make clear that those whoThe European Bloc -Britain, "perpetrators and supporters of Soviet representative, chided them outrage when terrorists invaded practice such acts, or aid and abet France , Italy and Belgium--had acts of terrorism to believe that and said that "any procrastination the Olympic Village, in violation them in any way, are the onesvigorously tried to push amend­they can escape the world's cen­would be encouragement for not only of law but of the spirit of deserving of censure and con­ments to the cease-fire resolution 
sure." Israel." He said that he felt an Olympic brotherhood and mur­
that would have modified it so as to "Munich was so horrible, so adjournment for three hours or so demnation. Only then will we 
dered innocent athletes?" Bush begin to eliminate this scourage"deplore all acts of terrorism" and vicious, so brutal, so detrimental would be sufficient for them to asked. He added: from the earth, and with it the acts would have asked for the "im­to order in the world and to peace consult their governments. 
"Did we hear even a word of of counterviolence to whic historymediate cessation and prevention in the Middle East that we simply This caused Carlos Ortiz de condemnation from the govern­inevitable proves it givesof all military and terorist ac­must not act here as if it did not Rozas, representative of Argentina ment of Syria for this despicable
tivities" -thus, a resolution aimed exist.:' the U.S. representative to remark that last December risP, ·•
act? No, Quite the contrary. The 

Brademas charges l Nixon 'inconsistencies' 
the President's veto, the Republicans claimed credit Joseph County, in which South Bend is located, and for the acts both at the GOP convention and in a neighboring Lake County because of their democratic nationally-distributed GOP factbook. tradition. But Cramer thinks McGovern will lose In­As evidence, Brademas cited his Child Day Care Bill diana, despite a neighborhood voter registration blitz. which the Republican Party endorsed at its convention This strategy consists of teams of 4-5 people who travel 
last month in Miami Beach. He also classed the En­with a registrar door-to-door. vironmental Education Act, which provides funding 
U. s. Congressman John D. Brademas addressed SRO for youth and adult education on ecology; the Drug Deadline for neighborhood voter registration is Sept. crowd of N D McGovern supporters Abuse Education Act, and the Education Act in the 23, however, qualified people may register at the same category. County Building on Main Street until Oct. 10. 
Next candidate scheduled for a campus appearance Nixon vetoes social legislation is Ted Wilson, Indiana state candidate for attorney­by Ann Therese Darin general. Wilson is the first black state-wide candidate. 
Campus News Editor 

The Education Bill, vetoed by the President three He will speak in the Law School Auditorium on times, would provide elementary and secondary Tuesday at ll:l5 a.m. 
U.S. Congressman John D. Brademas (D),. 3rd 
schools. libraries. vocational and adult education with 
district incumbent, urged ND-SMC McGovern-8hr1ver 
additional funding. McGovern Aide Resignssupporters Friday evening to obey the dictum of then­
In the field of health care, Brademas indicted the 
Pres.-elect Richard M. Nixon in 1968, "If a man can't present administration for "killing" the Hill-Burton In other election news, the national chairman of thebring peace in 4 years, he shouldn't have another Bill to place a hospital in every community and provide Democratic Voter Registration Drive resigned latechance." 
funds to research cures for fatal diseases. last week in a dispute with top McGovern campaignSpeaking to an overflow crowd which included ap­aides. According to UPI reports, Rep. Frank Thomp­proximately 20 senior citizens, Brade!llas, cam­
Registrar under Fire son, Jr. <D, N.J.) left the McGovern campaign afterpaigning for his 6th term as a representative, snarled numerous conflicts with Gary Hart, national campaign President Nixon in a trap of Nixonian statements. 
Prior to the speech, a democratic voting registrar manager. McGovern received word while visiting the He quoted the Republican candidate as saying, "I came under fire for allegedly being partisan in whom Manned Space Center in Houston, Texaswill not have wage and price controls," "The enemy 
she would register to vote by members of the audience. 
will be defeated and we will end the war before the end 
McGovern-Shriver campus supporters sponsored the Harding Lives?
of 1970," "I have a secret plan to end the war in Viet­
Brademas speech. According to AI Cramer, ND liason
nam," and "I will never promise what I cannot McGovern's running mate, R. Sargent Shriver
to National Headquarters, the ND-8MC group needs
deliver." campaigned in Michigan late last week. At a United
over 150 volunteers to canvass the campus and South 
GOP takes credit for acts Auto Workers-sponsored rally in Detroit, the vice­
Bend for unregistered voters. 
presidential candidate viewed the Nixon record with
The Notre Dame-st. Mary's organization already
Brademas-' technique was to follow each quotation the scandal ridden administration of former GOP
has hall and floor captains for almost every dorm at
with an example of an alleged inconsistent action. president Warren G. Harding.
both campuses.

Chairman of the house Education Sub-committee, Comparing the two presidents, Shriver cited the the former SMC political science instructor also alleged bugging of the Watergate Democratic com­
McGovern to Carry St. Joe
claimed that the Republican Administration had mittee offices, ITT, and milk lobbying, the "10 million vetoed several major pieces of education legislation slush fund" to the antics of the harding ad­which he sponsored. After the bills were passed over ministration: the Teapot Dome scandal, flagrant
Cramer speculates that McGovern will carry St. 
prohibition violations, and wide-spread bribing. 
, 
1 
j 
J 
1
,
, 
Monday September 11, 1972
the observer 

Wednesday, September 13 
Activities Night to host sixty organizations 
by Maudl.' Pythnia Obsl.'rvl'r Starr Rl.'porter 
One of the aspects of the annual student orientation program is Activities Night scheduled for this Wednesday. September 13 at the La Fortune Student Center from 7 pm to II: 30 pm. The purpose of the evening is to allow students to get acquainted with the various clubs and organizations associated with university life. 
This year. the two coordinators of Acti~ities Night are Dan Schipp and Dave Caruso. both juniors at Notre Dame. When asked for what reasons the event is held, Caruso replied. "This is mainly a program to get people out and see that there's more to school than just 

Dan Schipp, Co-cordinator of Activities Night 

~ 


Dave Caruso: "It's not just a freshman-oriented event." 
hooks and studying." 
Caruso continued, "It's not just a freshman-oriented event; it's for all the students of both Notre Dame and St. Mary's. It took a lot of work to get this thing organized, hut since we have about sixty 
. organizations participatmg, it should be worth it." 
Caruso also added that "this vear's number of clubs far exceeds iast year's. so it's impossible to estimate how many people will attend." 
Schipp commented on the organizational aspects of the evening. "LaFortune was chosen as the site basically for two reasons; first of all, it's close to the center of campus, and secondly, this will give students a chance to 
Kresge funds to help expand law library 
The University of Notre Dame has received a 750,000 dollar grant from the Kresge Foundation to help underwrite an addition to its 
42 year old Law School building.The gift will enable an enlargement of the Law School's library capacity and a doubling of usuable space in a renovation of 
the present building. The ex­panded law library will be named the Kresge Library, and Dean Thomas L. Shaffer said the Law School will seek other funds to increase its annual book purchases in moving from 50,000 to 150,000 
volumes. In announcing the Foundation's gift, Rev. Tl}eodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., noed that the grant would "benifit several generations of young men and women who will learn the joy of serving justice in our times." 
Minority scholarship 

to be studied here 
under NEH grant 
The University of Notre Dame is one of 15 schools in the nation selected by the National En­dowment for the Humanities (NEHl to provide pust-doctoral study for fellows in the fields of Afro-American, Mexican­American and American Indian scholarship during the 1972-73 school year. 
Two students who wll pursue Mexican-American studies at Notre Dame under the direction of Dr. Julian Samora, professor of sociology, are Robert Jesus Garza of Oklahoma State University and Richare E. Lopez of the University of California at Davis. Each fellowship carries an award o 10,000 dollars for nine months of study and 2,000 dollars each fo the sponsoring institutions to cover program-related costs. 
Of the 40 fellowships totaling 480,000 dollars this year, 10 are in the area of Mexican-American studies, 10 ' in American Indian studies, and 20 in Afro-American studie~. Joining Notre Dame in the program are the Smithsonian institution, Harvard University, and the University of C:i':ieago, California, Arizona and Texas 

Construction on the 1.5 million dollar expansion and renovation project was scheduled to start this summer and is expected to be 
complete in the fallof 1973. The architectural firm is Ellerbe Architects, Engineers, Planners of St. Paul, Minnesota. 
During construction, Law School claseswillbetaughtinWenninger-Kirsch Hall on campus, vacated when the Department of Biology 
recently moved into the Paul V. Galvin Life Science Center. 
orientate themselves with the Government and The Observer Activities night, they should center and its facilities." will have their fourth floor offices contact Caruso or Schipp 
The entire Student Center will be ready to greet anyone interested. · (telephone at number 3378) by used for the evening, with floors At each entrance a master floor Monday night. Also all clubs that set up for the different varieties of plan and alphabetical listing of the have already signed up should be clubs: such as academic, clubs will be posted. at the front entrance of LaFortune geographic, and service clubs. All clubs are reminded that if between l::Jo pm and 5:30 pm on 
Some organizations like Student they want to be. represented at Wednesday for registration.

r····································································•••n••············································································································ 

Hey, Pisan ••• , l'ma makin' you an offer you can no~ refuse. Senda you~ 
momma and popp~ The Observer for: the school year. Remember I only ask a favor once.~ 
JIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiNIImaulmmmeiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiJIIIIIIIIIJJIIIIIIIIIIIIIJJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII1==. 
THE OBSERVER :Subscri"pti"~'-. n'Dept. 
: B Q "" 
~ OX ~U niver. of Notre Dame ~Notre Dame Ind. ~:: 46556 
Address________________________~ City________ State-----­Zip.______ 
' $14.00 a year D $8.00 semester DJ 
Renewal D New Subscription D! 
;--------------i~ll.:..:.ll~lll.:..:.ll~lll.:..:.ll~lll.:..:.ll~lll.:..:.ll.:.:.lll.:..:.ll.:.:.lll~ll.:..:.ll.:..:.lll.:..:.ll.:.:.lll:.:.:ll.:..:.lll:.:.:ll.:..:.lll:.:.:ll.:..:.ll.:..:.lll.:..:ll.:..:.lll.:..:ll.:..:.lll.:..:ll.:..:lll.:..:ll.:..:llll:::,llll 

Tickets on sale TODAY in the ace ticket office (9-5) and in the Fiesta Lounge (4-5) on the third floor of the Student Center. 
All other seats--. $5.50



Bleachers--$3.00 
Monday September 11, 1972 the observer 3 
The best "stereo value" 


an campus taday 
12: 00--meeting, notre dame­american Indian cooperative programs, south dining hall faculty room. 
4: 30--practice, crew team, north dining ha II. 
7: 30--meeting, duplicate bridge, rathskellar, Iafortune basement. 
tuesday 
11: IS--lecture, ted wi I son, law schooiCweininger-kirsch building). 
7:00--meeting, great books discussion group, 105 madaleva hall. 
8: IS--concert, indianapolis sym­phony brass quintet, sacred heart church. 
7:30-student government night, regina north auditorium, smc freshmen and transfers especially welcome 


at nd-smc 


warld briefs 
(c) 1972 New York Times 
St. Croix, Virgin Islands .-The murder of eight persons, all Americans, by a band of robbers last week at a St. Croix golf course in the 'Virgin Islands had made questionable the future of tourism in Americqn­held islands of St. Croix, St. Thomas and St. John. The 
killings have brought a period of introspection about the enormous social changes of the last 15 years during which the islands' population tripled and they began to feel the effects of some of the social ills that beset mainland America. 
Fort Ord, Calif. -The army, a directive to all posts here and abroad, has ordered a crackdown on "Chapter 10" discharges, the process by which enlisted men who are considered misfits, malcontents, AWOL'S and others who may merely loathe the military system can return to civilian life without a court martial. 
Campus happenings 
Vog I in South Bend art show 
New works by Don Vogl, assistant professor of art at the University of Notre Dame, will be among three one-man shows by South Bend artists opening the South Bend Art Center season September 10. 
Vogl, who holds a bachelor of art education from the Chicago Art Institute and the University of Chicago and a master's degree in the same area from the University of Wisconsin at Milwaukee, joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1963. He teaches graphics and painting. 
Described once as "a ·hard­working artist who strives for perfection without relying on theatrical effects," Vogl has exhibited his works at several shows in Indiana, Michigan and Wisconsin. 
A reception honoring the opening Art Center shows will be held September 10 from 2 to 5 p.m. The exhibition closes October 1. 

Dunne at Yale 
Rev. John S. Dunne, C.S.C., professor of theology at the University of Notre Dame, will be on leave of absence from the University during the 1972-3 academic year while occupying the Riggs Chair in Yale Univer, sity's Department of 'Religious Studies. 
A native of Waco, Texas, Father Dunne entered the Congregation of Holy Cross at . the age of 15 and received his bachelor's degree Notre Dame in 1951. He studied theology in Rome at the Gregorian University, was ordained in 1954 and received his doctorate in sacred theology in 1958. In 1968 he won a Danforth Foundation Harbison Award for excellence in teaching. 
Father Dunne will return to Notre Dame in the fall of 1973. 

in town: 
Individually, each of the components pictured above has created a new standard of sound-per-dollar stereo value. Together, these components will provide you with more quality sound and reliability than you could have bought a year ago for over five hun­dred dollars. 
The Smaller Advent Loudspeakers are the only speakers costing less than the now-famous original Advent Loudspeakers which can reproduce the entire musical range. Most inex­pensive speakers cannot produce the lowest octaves of music: the lowest strings of a double bass or electric bass guitar, the lowest pipes of a pipe organ. The Smaller Advent can 
The Scott 357,.-'___ AM/FM stereo receiver has enough power to satisfy both and the Advents. 

It produces 33 watts RMS per channel, 
across the entire musical 
range, at less than 1 _% 
total distortion (RMS is the 
most demanding and least flashy of the various power­
rating systems.) The tuner sections wi II separate weaker stations on a crowded dial from their brawnier neigh­
boring stations and receive them with an amazing full­ness and clarity. 
To match the qualitv and reliability that the Scott and the Advents represent, 
,

we recommend the Garrard 
,

SL55B. with a Shure H93E ­cartridge. The SL55B has a heavy platter, a synchronous motor, a convenient cueing 
j

control and comes with a dustcover and base. 
Come to RMS Audi­this week. You'll be sur­prised how much quality 
l
sound your Three hundred and 
, 1 1

Seventy five dollars can buy. :m So. Main Next to Indiana Bell ~ 1-8 Mon-Thurs 1 1-5 Fri and Sun l Closed Sat 288-1681 
~ 
, 
1 
,~ 
, 1 
1 

, 
1 
1
, 
1 

, ~ 
, 
1 
~ 
~ 
~ 


r--------------------------------------------------­
4 

the observer Monday September 11, 1972 
Money squeeze 




Future existence of University Press in doubt 
by Ann Therese Darin Campus News Editor 
Will the University Press be here next fall? Not even the seven editorial board members of the University Press are sure. 
With the University tightening its financial belt and the press l·ontinuing to lose money, they administration is considering not maintaining the Press any longer. I.ast summer Rev. James T. Burtchaell. university provost, requested the editorial board to n•port on the press's "goals, its work and to advise the University about its future." 

I 
In particular. he asked the Board to consider. "What are the specific purposes of university presses, as distinguished from commercial publishing houses?" 
·•. why does Notre Dame need a press? • replied Rev. Paul Beichner. tounaer of the Press. "Whv does Notre Dame need a 

depa.rtment of almost anything?O It is for the dissemination of knowledge." 
r 
"If there were no university presses. knowledge would suffer," added Mr. John Ehmann, acting 
Press director. "the only other wav it would be distributed would he· through university microfilms." 

Generally, Ehmann continued, 
commercialpublishing houses print only "risk' manuscripts, popular material. Since scholarly works do not have Top 10 best-seller appeal, publishing houses usually avoid them as financial graveyards. 
But. these scholarly theses need to be printed. Thev are ourchased hy university and college libraries, professors . and students. So, the university becomes the good samaritan. 
Contrary to public opinion, the 
press is not maintained to orovide an uprinting plant for professors goaded by the "publish or perish' syndrome. 
"Nothing could be further from the truth." said Fr. Beichner. "Publish or Perish'is a slogan that got used tremendously by a group of people trying to force tenure on themselves." 
"There should be a means of communicating some of the scholarship and thought of the university on to the public," commented Matthew Fitz­simmons, one of the Press's founding father. "There are other presses ;it is true. And the faculty does lord it over their friends when Harvard published their manuscript. But here at Notre Dame we have a distinctive role to play" 
"The University Press has increased the scholarly · standing of Notre Dame from theology to secular studies," added Dr. Step­phen Kertesz, collaborator with Fitzsimmons in the Press's financially successful In­ternational Relations series. 
Every year, according to Kert­sez. UNDP books receive in hundreds of book reviews and journals. Notre Dame isn't 
known as a football school in the Midwest any longer." he said with satisfaction. Delving deeper into Fr. Burt­chaell's initial query, why should a press exist at Notre Dame at all? What are the specific purposes of the University of Notre Dame Press. as distinguished from other university presses? When Ms. Emily M. Schossberger came to Notre Dame to direct University Press operations in 1960, the Press was toddling with a series of baby steps including as religion series (4 hooks l authored by Revs. Theodore M. Hesburgh and Charles Sheedy which grossed $70,000 to sustain the press. As a service press, it also printed annual football reviews and previews, the university student manual and a skeletal series on international diplomacy. "lt didn't even deserve the name 
d 
of a university press until 1960,"
Refugee problern. face 
recounted M_s. Schossberger, who recently retired from the 
press  
directorship.  
President Suleiman Franjieh of  the  control  of  commando  According  to  the  former  
Lebanon  has  begun  a  organizations, which recruit many  director, ther was no organization,  
diplomatic  effort  to  get  major  guerillas from the young men and  no budget. and no rovalties from  

Uhe editorial board when I started on the job, you have hired a .chauffeur for a 1932 Ford," Ms... Schossberger recalled. 
Today it publishes 18-20 scholarly manuscripts a year and ranks as a middle weight in university press circles. 
At the moment, the University Press is the national leader in P.u?Iishing manuscripts 0':1 the <h1cano problem,. Accordmg to 
the author of the series, Dr. Julian· Samora also a press editorial board member, if the . University Press contin~es, it will have the same reputation as Northwestern with African Studies and Oklahoma with Indiana manuscripts ---first in the field. It also .ranks high in philosophy, the Middle English period of English literature, and Internation Relations. But the Press does not serve the Schools of Law. Business Administration, Architecture, Science and many of the Liberal Arts departnebts. Ironically the University Press also does not oublish any religious or ttheologicall textbooks any longer. With the advent of Vatrican II, many commercial publishing houses started printing religious books. "We are not as strong as you would expect a Catholic university to be," ex­plained Ehmann "because the commercial press robbed us of it during the Vatican II era when theology was popular and very marketable." However Ms. Schossberger did point out that the Christian orientation of many of the 
powers to tackle the Palestinian ,__\\..:..'..:..o:.:.m.:..:e..:..n:....:..:.in:...:.:th.:.:e:......:.c.::.am=p:.:s..:... t_he___:p_r_ie_s_t_-_a_u..:..th..:..o:.:r:.:s..:..._'_'I::.....:..to..:..l.::d_t..:..h..:..e..:..m.:__..!P~:.:U:::hl:.::.:ic:::a:.::.t:.::io::.:n:::s.:.fr~~:::m::..:.N.:.:o:.::t.:.:re::_:::D:::a::.:m:;.:e::..w.::.:::a:;s 
refugee problem that underlies much of the violence in the Middle East. 
After presiding over a cabinet meeting Saturday called to consider Lebanon's vulnerability to attack from Israel, such as the air strikes that killed 20 persons Friday. i''ranjieh said he would send notes to "friendly heads of state" proposing new approaches to the problems of 1.4 million Palestinians displaced from Israel. 
The problems of these refugees, and the political organizations and guerilla forces that support the creation of a new Palestinian state in territories now held by Israel, were highlighted by the killing of Israeli hostages and their Arab kidnappers at the Olympic games 

ATTENTION ARTS & LETTERS 
Sophomores, Juniors, and Seniors. Applications for A&L 
COLLEGE COUNCIL SEATS 
and one 
UNIVERSITY ACADEMIC 

COUNCIL SEAT 
are now be~ng accepted. Student are asked to write a brief statement­o~e typewritten page or less--on why they are interested in serving in either (or both) positions. Include address and phone number All statements must be submitted to the · 
OEAN'S OFFICE ROOM 137 O'SHAUGHNESSEl NO LATER THAN FRIDAY SEPT. 15,4:30 
(interviews will then be arranged.) 
a selling point At one time, the 
Press wa~ criticized for such a 
narrow orientation.. 
The prestige of maintaining a 
university press is expensive, 
especially since the University 
must fund the Press annually and 
lately it has been a money -loser. 
Wl.'dnl.'srlay: Money ·--"This is like 
trying to win a ball game after 
giving away your bl.'st players.' Fr. 
p ul B.. hn 
..a___e,_c__er_._______...,

"PEACE 
•
Dare we Stl.ll WISh It?
D • ?II 
are We nOt • 
With these words, James Car­roll ends his book ELEMENTS OF HOPE and sums up his hopes for mankind. 
James Carroll is a sensitive, concerned and involved Paulist Chaplain at Boston University who feels deeply about the lack of understanding among men; a poet who looks at the ele­ments of earth, air, fire and water ... and reaches beyond for greater awareness of man's role on earth. 
Whether he writes of Asian children trembling in fear from hovering planes, or an astro­naut's sadness as he looks down on earth, James Carroll's perception and powerful image­ry prod. move and touch the reader. With highly quotable phrases presented in sense line style, he balances the actions of men with the beauty and hope that surround us. Whether you read this book in the soli­tude of your own room, or read from it to others. you will dis­cover the thought-provoking impact of the eloquent words and full-color photography. 
ELEMENTS OF HOPE is a compassionate appeal for un­derstanding, for love, for peace. It is a book that has urgency, a call to man for a more dynamic awareness of himself and God. 
BUY ELEMENTS OF HOPE at . your local bookstore, or wnte Paulist Press, Dept. 0. 400 Sette Drive, Paramus, N.J. 07652 
$4.95 per copy. 112 pag.,.. Full-color Photo•. 
Bi 81(," x 11" size. Hardcover. 
in Munich. The action in Munich~=========================================~--------------,
led to a new military and r diplomatic offensive by Israel against the commando groups. 
The forthcoming General 






SEALS &
Assembly of the United Nations has been asked by Secretary Ger­neral Kurt Waldheim to consider international measures to protect 


CROFTS
"innocent victims" such as air ­line passengers from acts of 

in concert
political terrorism.. F<'oreign Minister Abba Eban of Israel said that the immediate 

special guest star: 
problem in the Middle East is not 
the quest for a peace settlement, 


Pure PRAIRIE League
but the comrol of the commandos, with Israel prepared to strike against commandos operating from neighboring coutries if their governments are unable or un­willing to eliminate attacks on Israel and its citizens. 

This Friday at 8:00
i''ranjieh. reflecting the moderate Arab viewpoint, said that "bl'fore considering a curb on 


in Stepan Center
violence undertaken by a group of 
people in in a continuous stare of 
provocation. we should tackle the 
l'auses of this despair and put an 
£'nd to (israeli) provocation." 
Th£'re are :lOO,OOO Palestinians in 


General Admis.sion--$2.50 
this country of 2 million and 85,000 of these Palestinians are in refugee camps supported by the United Nations. These camps are under 

Tickets on sale TODAY in the 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except 

Fiesta Lounge from 4-5 pm
vacations by the students of the 

[_.· University of Notre Dame and S1. 
~"­
Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S8 from The Observer, Box Q, Notre D~:~me, Ind. .46556. Second class postage pald, 

. .... presented by the Student Union 
Notre Dame, Ind. .46556 


. ~~ ~-··~·--·------------~----­
Monday September 11, 1972 the observer 
5 
Recardinr:~s 


chicago v: outstanding 

jDseph abell 
I suppose the term jazz covers a wide range of musical forms. There's the type of jazz found only in a long jam session, the kind that is carefully rehearsed and in­cludes a full orchestral arrangement behind a small group, or the kind that features a solo artist playing some soft tune in front of a simple background of drums and a for­real <as opposed to electric) bass. Jazz is mated up with many other forms also, as recent recording can show: jazz-rock, country-jazz, folk-jazz, etc., to produce entirely new musical idioms. 
When I think of jazz, however, I think of 
nice, easygoing music with a definite swing 
or rhythm. Sure, the more popular forms 
are the jam session types, but to me, jazz is 
the kind of music you want to listen to in the 
small hours of the morning while you're 
pulling those all-nighters--something lively 
enough to keep you awake and going, yet 
soft and easygoing enough not to disturb you 
more than you want it to, or in the last 
couple hours of a party, when everything 
has slowed down. 
Examples: Herbie Mann's magical flute is a prime one. Chuck Mangione and company is another. The slower songs of Blood, Sweat and Tears. And to a limited extent, Chicago. 
I can't emphasize enough the word limited when it comes to Chicago jazz. It's there, it always has been; but only as an influence on the rest of their music, only as a very slim guideline for the brass embellishment of a basically rock band. 
That is, up until now. 

With the release of Chicago V, the jazz influence of the brass section of Chicago has finally burst through the camoflage of flashy rock to show that it really can stand n its own. The result: a good aspect and a slight disappointment. 
I'll cover the disappointing one first. Chicago in my opinion is an outstanding group. Not a great, an outstanding one (here I am judging them on their overall musical abi~ity: whereas before I was looking at just their Jazz aspect). Every one of their recordings has contained some tunes that have invariably become "classics", no 

llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 
Chicago V 
Chicago 
Columbia KC 31102 
$5.98 list 
llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll matter how mediocre a lot of the rest was. Chicago is an outstanding group because they've always produced outstanding music, even if you do have to look for it sometimes. And that's the disappointment this album has: no outstanding songs. Good ones, yes, even great ones, but nothing 
outstanding. 

And that brings us to the good aspect. While the album has no outstanding in­dividual songs, as a whole it tends to stand head and shoulders above other Chicago albums. That's where the jazz influence comes in: it mellows the sound more con­sistently than before, producing an im­mensely listenable record. 
Walter Parazaider is allowed the freedom he's needed with his saxaphone for so long, as has Lee Loughnane with his trumpet, while. somebody finally turned Terry Kath's amplifier down and quietly tucked him off into a right-channel corner. Long sections of songs handed over the brass on "At Hit by Varese," "All is Well," "Now That You've Gone," "Saturday in the Park" and "Goodbye" all attest to the success of making the brass of Chicago more an equal to the rest of the band. 
The individual songs·? I said there were 
good ones, and the best of these are "All Is 
Well," "Dialog Part I," and "Goodbye". 
"All is Well" could easily become another 
"Colour My World" if the radio stations 
w-ould only play it. It's the kind of song that 
immediatley comes to mind when I think of 
jazz: a gentle, easygoing manner that also 
brings back memories of the earlier "Happy 
daanesbury ~ t;~arry trudeau . 



FRESHMEN AND OTHERS 
Interested in helping your fellow students? call the 
STUDENT UNION Walt at 7757 or 234-5566' 
From Chicago 
THE SIEGAL-SCHWALL BLUES BAND: 
in concert 
Also appearing: RESURRECTION )from Indianapolis) SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 16 8:00p.m. 
Admission: $3.50 <advance), $4.00 (at the door) All seats reserved. 
Advance tickets available at Morris Civic Box Office or at Pan­dora's Books. Mail orders accepted--Enclose self addressed stamped envelope and check or money order. 
MORRIS CIV!ClAUDITORIUM 211N. Michigan Avenue Downtown South Bend 232-6954 
1 
•

1n its own way 

'Cause I'm Goin' Home." 
"Dialog Part I", while being one of the few songs with little jazz infl.uence, is just plain catchy. Despite the intro that has pe_ople unfamiliar with it waiting for Michael Jackson's voice, it turns into an excellent crescendo that peaks out beautifully. The one fault is that it only sounds good when you're listening to it; you can't really "take it with you" (ever try to hum a song like "Give Peace a Chance" for any length of time?). Oh, yeah, the message gets across too, with more subtle shading included, like distortion via wah-wah pedal when the singer's "thoughts" start going "sour." 
As for "Goodbye," besides being one of the more skillful blends of jazz and rock I've seen in awhile, it's just plain fun to listen to. 
Su~e the album has its low spots, but nothmg as bad as "Free Form Guitar" or "Progress" from earlier endeavors. "State of the Union" and "While they City Sleeps" are rather bland, sacrificing musical achievement to get the now-tired sounding message across. But two or three below average songs are much better than seven or eight that sometimes totally ruin an entire side of a record. 
And on .top of everything else, Chicago has finally seen fit to trim the excess garbage from its released by making this LP a "one­record set." No more plowing through crap to get to the good stuff! 
Chicago has taken on many musical forms, from hard rock to country to who knows what, searching for "right" sounds. They've cut great songs and a number of outstanding, "classic" ones in that search. With Chicago V, they've found jazz really can sit right with the group if they let it. And it's the kind of jazz I think of when Ithink of , jazz: easygoing and skillful. That alone makes this album outstanding. 
With this issue, The Observer is pleased to announce the inclusion of Doonesbury by Garry Trudeau as a regular feature. Doonesbury will appear daily in the editorial or feature page. 
HJIR E/1/0!Jofl, BOYS. H Y /'11'/HE !5 .:TOIWIE CA()CUSIWO I'!? RUNNINO -AMiA Y FROH 1'1Y HUS8RND CL.INTON IN BRIEF, r 60T FED UP tJ/TH THE /'1EANINGLE55 

Monday September 11, 1971
6 the observer 

Co-ex progrmn begins 



third year on Monday 

Jim Clarke, Student Union 
Research and Development 
Commissioner 
By Greg Aiello Observer Staff Writer 
Tht• Dining Hall Co-Exchange

... Program will begin its third year of operation on Monday, Sep­tember 18 according to Jim Clarke, Student Union Research and Development Commissioner, and Skip Francesconi. Dining Hall Co­Exchange Director for Notre llame. A schedule has been devised that allows two Notre Dame halls per day to receive 50 tickets each. The tickets are given to the hall president and are to be distributed at the discretion of each Hall Council. St. Mary's receives 160 tickets each day that are distributed among the entire campus. The following schedule has been announced: Monday Sept. 18, Fisher and Farley Tuesday . 19. Cavanaugh and Sorin Wl'dnesday, 20, St. Ed's and Breen-Phillips Thursday, 21, Morrissey and Holy Cross Friday 22, Flanner and Badin Saturday, 23, Grace and Walsh Sunday, 24, Howard (Old C'ollege l and Keenan Monday, 2S, Stanford and Dillon Tul'sday. 26, Alumni and Zahm Wednesday, 27, Lyons and Grace Thursday, 28, Pangborn and Flanner
-
Grace and Flanner will receive two sets of tickets in the cycle because of their size. This schedule will be followed at least twice until its success is deter­mined. Clarke and Francesconi asserted that last year's program was a success after a problem with ticket distribution was resolved. "It was slow at the beginning of last year because of the way the tickets were dispersed." said Clarke. "We gave 90 tickets to one hall and ten to Student Union each day. After that it was 65 to each hall and 35 to Student Union. Eventually we found that the halls couldn't handle more than 50 tickets each and the ones going to Student Union were being used by the same people each day. Our 
philosophy is to give every student an opportunity to eat at St. Mary's or Notre Dame without having the same people going every night." 
lt was found that distributing 50 tickets each. to two halls a day, was tlie most efficient method and best promoted the pholosophy of the program. Daily use of the 100 Notre Dame Co-Ex tickets last vear rose from 56 percent in September to 73 percent in May. Most importantly, by the end of last vear there was an even ex­change of Notre Dame and St. Mary's Students, the basis of a succ-essful program. 
Due to the failure of the merger 
there was speculation as to 
whether the program would 
continue. Notre Dame operates 
the program at a financial loss 
becaus€ each St. Mary's meal 
ticket costs more that a Notre 
Dame meal ticket. For an even 
financial exhange ten women must 
use the service for every seven 
men. This problem was not 
overbearing, however, and the 
program was approved. 
The major foreseeable problem is that not as many St. Mary's girls will eat at Notre Dame because of the decreased number attending classes here. The result could be an uneven exchange that would jeopardize the program because of the financial strain to the Notre Dame Food Service. 
The new Notre Dame co~ds will 
be able to take advantage of the 
program. "The girls are Notre 
Dame students, they pay for the 
program, and many of them still 
have ties at St. Mary's. So they 
should be able to eat over there 
just like the guys," said Clarke. 
Both Clarke and Francesconi 
stressed that the success of Co-Ex 
Dining depends on Student 
response. 
Applications for 

A & L Council 
Applications are now being accepted for four positions on the Arts and Letters College Council, as well as one seat on the University Academic Council, representing the College of Arts and Letters. 
Interested upperclass students 
are asked to wnte a statement of 
one typewritten page or less on 
why they would like to serve in 
either position, and submit it to the 
Dean's office, Room 
137 O'Shaughnessy Hall, before 
4::10 P.M. Friday, September 15. 
Include address and phone. In­
terviews will then be arranged. 
Last year was the first that 
students were permitted to sit as 
voting members of the Arts and 
Letters College Council--formerly 
a body only of approximately fifty 
faculty members and deans of the 
college. The council is responsible 
<continued on page 8) 


----~----------------------------~ 
Attention Ex-Peace Corps and Vista Workers 
ACTION is looking for a campus representative to represent the Peace Corps andVista. Will occupy office in the administration Building. 
1. 
Must be a former member of th Peace Corps or Vista. 

2. 
Pay is $2.50 per hour for a maximum of 36 hours per calendar month 

3. 
Work will consist of being liaison with area office (Indianapolis, Indiana) and Notrhe Dame and other local campuses(SMC. I USB, HC


.,. 
Jr. College. Bethel); show films, meet with individual students or small student groups and tell about the Corps and Vista. 

The position must be filled by October I. Indicate uoir interest by l.eaving your name, address, phone number and qualifications at the Placement Bureau not later than Friday, September 22. 
R. D. Wlllemin Director.· 

Special Student Subscription Rate 
all Four shows....................$1 0.00 

FRI. & SAT-NOV. 24 & 25 

But 'P14f 19717Mf~ 
second ba Icony 
SAT. & SUN.-NOV. 11 & 12 
TONY TANNER 
lOIVDOh S Nf WtSTCOMtnv HIT 

~NJHONY MARRIOTI &ALISTAIR FOOT t.
/.!. / (~• ~ 
jj.·. IL~· 
... ~ 'l ...... --.... ·,


\::..~--''··'-"' 
'"""""' ',
--l '. ·S 
FRI. & SAT.-APR. 13 & 14 
THE 
TONY AWARD MUSICAL 
CHA~tES STROUSE ......... """.,,.,..,.., 

1
t"•c\"' 2 114 YearsLEE A'I)AJ1S ,on Broadway 
Enjoy an exciting season of stage hits from New York and London. As a season member of The Broadway Theater League your favorite seats at the Morris Civic Auditorium will be reserved for all these fine New York productions and you pay less than box office prices. Shop once, choose your seat . . . your tickets will arrive by mail in advance of the shows. 
SUBSCRIPTION RATES FOR FOUR SHO Jf'S Orch. & Men _______ $25.00 
Main Floor, Boxes ____ 21.00 
1st Balcony __________ 21.00 2nd Balcony _________ 1100 
2nd alcony(Students) ___ 10.00 
3rd Balcony __________ 8.00 
Please indicate your first and sec­ond choice of seat location and either first or second night per­formances. You must select all first night or second night perform­ances. 
SIGN UP FOR YOUR MEMBERSHIP TODAY Please make check payable and mail to: 
THE BROADWAY THEATER LEAGUE 
P.O. Box B66 South Bend, Indiana 
* * * 
Membership Campaign Headquarters: 
Morris Civic Auditorium 
Box Office Opens Sept. 11-16 . • . 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
You are invited to visit the Morris Civic Auditorium to "try out" your seat before final selection. 211 N. Michigan Phone 232-6954 
After 5 p.m. call 282-2150 

Physical examinations for 
members of Notre Dame's 
wrestling and baseball teams will 
be given tonight at 7:15 in the in­
firmary. 

The examinations are man­
datory for anyone planning to 
participate in either sport. 
Jim Donaldson 

The Irish Eye 
The Yearlings 
Recruiting has always been a major concern for Notre Dame's football staff. A team can't expect to finish among the top ten in the final polls consistently if the coaching staff doesn't go out and get the ballplayers. 
With the NCAA's passage of the new rule making freshmen eligible for varsity competition in football and basketball, recruiting increased in importance. 
Ara Parseghian and his staff responded predictably last spring and the Irish have come up with a fine crop of freshmen athletes, three of whom are already making their presence felt on the varsity. 
At this early juncture, tackle Steve Neihaus looks like the biggest a11:d best of the incoming frosh. The 6'4", 265 pounder has already worked his way into the number one defensive unit and Parseghian says that Niehaus is "performing exceptionally well for a freshman." 
A graduate of Moeller High in Cincinnati, one of three Moeller grads to matriculate ad N.D. this fall, Niehaus was named a high school All­American the past two years and was voted Ohio's lineman of the year in '71. 
The other two first-year men who have seen lots of action in Notre Dame's early workouts are quarterback Rich Slager and halfback Art Best. 
With Cliff Brown and Bill Nyrop hobbled by injuries, Slager has been sharing the quarterbacking duties on the number two offense in the last couple of scrimmages. Although only 5'11,.,, 180-pounds, Slager gained all­state honors as a senior at Columbus, Ohio's Upper Arlington High and was also the Ohio singles tennis champion the past two years. 
Best, a 9.7 sprinter, was the leading scorer in the Columbus (0.) area 
last season (122 points l and tallied 38 touchdowns in his high school 
career. He's been running in the number two backfield this fall and has 
returned some kickoffs. 
The rest of the Irish yearlings boast some fine credentials too, although 
they haven't been as busy in the fall practice sessions. 
The frosh linemen may be younger than their upper class counterparts, but they're not any smaller. With guys like Jay Achterhoff (6'4, 240), Frank Rutkowski (6'4, 250), Bill Michuta (6'4, 245), Robin Weber (6'5, 250), Alan Wujciak (6'2, 230), Calvin Balliet (6'4, 225), Ken Andler (6'6, 230), Nick Fedorenko (6'5,262), John Galanis (6'3, 245) and Charles llarping (6'5, 245), Irish line coaches Wally Moore and Joe Yonto cer­tainly have plenty of size to work with. 
Notre Dame also recruited some speed backs to run behind those giants up front. Paul Linehan, Robert Zanet, and Russ Kernman can all sprint 100 yards in less than ten seconds while Tom Parise, Randolph Payne, Tom Maschmeier, and Pat Sarb aren't far behind. 
Quarterback candidates, in addition to Slager, include Tony Brantley, ranked number one academically in his class of 868 at Oklahoma City's Putnam High Kurt Horton of New. Canaan, Conn., the state's most Valuable Play'er in 1971 and a former teammate of soph wide receiver Pete Demmerle, and Fred Trosko,an All-Michigan choice. 
Notre Dame has a long traditi(Jn of families who send their sons faith­
fully to du Lac and there are several frosh with fraternal ties to Notre 
Dame, on the football team. 
Tony Novakov, brother of form,er Irish cent~r D~n, is ~ g_ood line 
prospect and punter Brian Doherty s broth~r Kevm, will be biddi_ng f?r a 
spot in the defensive backfield. Coach Mike Stock's brother Jim, IS a 
receiving candidate. 
Just how many of the frosh will see action this fall is still highly 
questionable but judging from their past performances, the football class 
of '76 will provide plenty of help in the years ahead. 
Monday September 11, 1972 the observer 
7 
The Irish hockey team will hold its first meeting of the year Wednesday night at 7:30 in the ACC, according to head coach Charles "Lefty" Smith. 
All interested candidates should attend. 






OBSERVER 
SPORTS 
Irish defense must rebuild 

by Vic Dorr During the 1971 college football season, Notre Dame boasted one of the best--if not the best--defensive platoons in the country. The Irish shut out four of their ten op­ponents, allowed a season's total of only 86 points, and yielded an average of but 3.2 yards per play. But eight members of that defensive squad--including three of the four linemen and the entire defensive secondary--graduated last spring, and the ND coaching staff was left with a frighteningly large rebuilding job. "There's no question about the fact that we must find a lot of key replacements on defense," said ND coach Ara Parseghian. "We'll have a lot of young people filling some big holes--both in starting positions and in reserve roles." The "big holes" that Parseghian referred to are distributed throughout the defensive roster. The departure of Walt Patulski, Fred Swendsen, and Mike Kadish, has left senior co-captain Greg Marx as the front four's lone returning starter. The linebacking corps--the heart of Notre Dame's 4-4-3 defense--lost Eric Patton and Rick Thomann, and the deep secondary lost all three of its senior starters-­Clarence Ellis, Ralph Stepaniak, and Mike Crotty. The defensive rebuilding effort has revolved around the 6-5, 265­pound Marx, a two-time monogram winner and likely All­America tackle. "We're concerned about who our primary people are going to be," said line coach Joe Yonto. "We know we have one. Greg <Marx) represents the same thing to the new group that he, Patulski, Swendsen and Kadish had when they were sophomores. Greg is this group's Mike McCoy. They all look to Greg for leadership and stability." 
And Marx' leadership may prove invaluable, for the "new group" of defensive linemen is laced with underclassmen. Freshman Steve 
Greg Marx 

Niehaus (6-4), 265) is currently running beside Marx in the other tackle slot, but senior Dick Maciag <6-5, 277) is also in contention for the opening, and soph Kevin Nosbusch <6-4,267) is not out of the picture. 
The two end positions could be filled by either of four candidates Wrestling sensation Mike Fanning <6-6,245), now a sophomore, is battling senior Tom Freistroffer <6-4, 234) for one of the assign­ments, while juniors Jeff Hein (6-1, 
224) and George Hayduk (6-3,246) are competing for the other. 
Coach George Kelly's linebackers probably represent the brightest part of the defensive picture. In Jim. O'Malley (6-2, 221) 
SCANNING THE SCRIM­MAGE: Split end Willie Townsend 
-

hau!ed in five passes for lOOyards. 
Jim Musuraca, a senior linebacker, came up with an in­terception in the second quarter, picking off AI Samuels' option pass ... Punters Brian Doherty and Dave Casper both looked good. Doherty compiled a 41-yard average on four punts and Casper averaged 39.5 yards on eight kicks ... Junior placekicker Bob Thomas, who has had a little trouble getting into the groove this fall, had his best afternoon, making all ten extra points in the scrimmage with ease ... Reserve lineman Mark Brenneman may be lost for the season with a back problem...It had been questionable 
whether or not Penick, who had missed two days of practice with a charley-horse would play Satur­day, but he didn't seem slowed by the injury ...Junior quarterback Bill Nyrop, bothered by rib and thumb in juries, sat out the scrimmage. 
and Jim Musuraca (6-0,214), Kelly 
has two senior starters returning, 
and he has several other talented 
contenders as well. 
Seniors Mike Webb (6-2, 231) and 
Pat McGraw (6-1, 221) figure ­
highly in the race for the two open 
positions, but junior Gary 
Potempa also looms as a potential 
starter·. Juniors Tom Devine (6-3, 
210) and Tim Sullivan (6-3, 219) saw action last year, but both are still recuperating from knee in­juries. 
Three sophomores, Sherm Smith 
(6-2, 210) Drew Mahalic (6-4, 213), 
and Greg Collins (6-3, 216) round 
out the line backing roster. 
The most complete rebuilding 
job will come in the deep secon­
dary, where coach Paul Shoults 
must develop three new starters. 
"We're the last line of defense," 
says Shoults. "When we make a 
mistake, they mark it on the 
scoreboard." 
Senior Ken Schlezes is the most experienced of Shoults' deep ·defenders, but he saw most of his 
time last year as an added back inIsure passing situations. Joining , Schlezes--who intercepted four 'passes during ND's first two , games of 1971--in the struggle for !the three starting berths are two iseniors and a handfull of un­!derclassmen. 
Seniors Terry Garner <6-1, 185), ·who saw brief service last year, \and Joe Haggar (5-11, 172) may 
figure in the deep-three picture, 
\but they will have to fend off 
,challenges from juniors Mike 
:Townsend (6-3, 183) and Tim 
Rudnick (5-10, 185). A sixth con­
tender for a secondary position is 
soph Reggie Barnett (5-11, 180), 
whose 4.5 speed in the 40 makes 
him the fastest man in the 
defensive lineup. 
The Irish coaches have been 
:working for months on rebuilding 


the defensive platoon, and their 
task is nearly complete. But the 
'results of their work won't be 
known for several weeks yet--and 
even then the decision will have to 
come from the Northwestern 
:Wildcats. 


Monday September 11, 1972
the observer
8 

LaYI students aiding prosecutors 
prepare courtroom strategy and,Hard-pressed prosecutors in four 
in some cases, represent the
Indiana counties are getting a lift prosecutor in the trial of non-juryfrom Notre Dame Law students in cases.

their fight against crime. 

One judge impressed by theirUnder a grant to Notre Dame work is Norman Kopec of Southfrom the Indiana Criminal Justice Bend who said the Notre DamePlanning Agency, nine Notre students do "a very creditable jobDame students have been serving with all the skills of practicingas interns in prosecutor offices in attorneys."
St. Joseph, LaPorte, Stark and In addition to freeing theMarshall Counties. Administering prosecutor and his staff fromthe program is Leslie G. Foschio, routine tasks, the students bring aassistant dean of the Notre Dame certain expertise of their own toLaw School and a former their job. Generally well-versed in

prosecutor in Erie County, New York. contemporary legal issues such as 
-
The students, mostly seniors drug abuse and obscenity, they with a sprinkling of second-year often find themselves briefing students, assist part-time during Justites of the Peace on current law the school year and full-time in these areas. during the summer. They research In addition to valuable practical cases, prepare warrants, question experience, there is a wider witnesses, take depositions, educational benefit in the intern 
Egypt: Diplomacy, not military action against Israel 
The Egyptian government, although angered by the Israeli air raids on Palestinian camps in Lebanon and Syria, is determined to avoid involvement in military action against Israel unless the Israelis attack Egyptian territory, political sources here said today. 
The government is anxious to ..ontinue the diplomatic campaign recently announced by President :\nwar EI-Sadat, these sources -;aid. The campaign is aimed at gaining political and material ·. upport in the West in the wake of the withdrawal of the Soviet presence here. It is also aimed at pressing for a negotiated set­tlement that would free the l<:gyptian territories occupied by Israel since the 1967 six day war. 

-
There has been concern here that the Israeli attacks followed by the air battle between Syria and Israel might lead to a generalized new military con­flagration in the Middle East. 
,/)I 




\_,1/ 
\ 
~ 
Such a war would be contrary to the Egyptian government's plans and hopes as they have reportedly emerged over the last few months and especially since the exodus of Soviet-personnel. 
Although there has never been a formal statement to this effect, it is taken for granted here that Sadat 's decision to oust the Soviets eliminated war as a feasible policy to reconquer the occupied territories. 
Gen. Mohammed Ahmed Sade, the defense minister and army commander, among other of­ficials, is known to be opposed to any military avction. 
A govermnment declaration on the Israeli air raids issued Saturday said that "the civilized world will not allow Israel and her allies to endanger the security of the area. "The statement noted that the raids were carried out by 
U.S. made Phantom bombers and accused the United States of complicity with· Israel. 
program. Students involved take their problems back to the classroom -which is often the Foshi's Criminal Practice cource for evaluation and discussion with professors and fellow students. 
How do prosecutors feel? "I am totally delighted with the program," Chief Prosecutor William Voor of St. Joseph County commented. "It is the wisest distribution of federal funds that I can think of in the battle against crime." 

A&L applications 
(continued from page 6) 
for approving all matters of academics, policy, and procedure in the Arts and Letters College. 
Student membership includes one representitive from each of the upperclasses as well as an at-large member and the president of the Arts and Letters Student Advisory Council. 
Last year, the students sub­mitted a number of proposals including a liberalization of the oass-fail option and the initiation of a "problems procedure" for airing academic grievances-all of which were passed by the council. 
Encouraging all Arrs and Let­ters sophomores, juniors and seniors to apply, Dean Frederick 
J. Crosson said, we are looking forward to working with in­terested ·and concerned students." Representation of Notre Dame women is avidly sought. 
The Academic Council of the University is concerned with matters of academics, policy and procedure on a university wide level. Among the topics for discussion this year are revision of the Faculty Manual and com­position of the Academic Calendar. Student seats represents -each of the undergraduate collages in addition to an ex-officio position for the Academic Commissioner of the Student Government. 

YOUR STORE IN STYLE~<------T 
PRICE & TERMS : 
ORIGINAL DOUBLEKNITS from $14 
The ever-popular flare slack in a tremendous Fortrel polyester doubleknit... America's standard for comfort, style and fine fabrics. The most comfortable and carefree slack ever, and they won't wrinkle! Choose solid colors in a smart diagonal weave. 

WIN A 10-SPEED BIKE 
Nothing to buy, you need not be present to win. Simply register your name at Gilbert's Campus Shop .... that's all! 
Pay one-third in January 
one-third in F ehruary one-third in March 
You pay no interest or service charge of any kind with this exclusive Campus Shop Way to buy 

the issue staff: 
Night Editor: Jim Roe 

Day Editor : Tom Bornholdt 
Assistant Night Editor: Chris Sullivan 
Associate Night Editor Steve Barrett 
Typists: K.C. Tiernan, Barb Norcross, Michael Goetz 
Night Controller: Steve Roper 
Ad Layout: : Dave Erba 
-BICYCLES­

MIDDLE WEIGHTS LIGHT WEIGHTS RACING 

3 SPEED--S SPEED--10 SPEED--TANDEMS 
American 
QUALITY 

Japanese IMPORTED French 10 SPEEDS English $99.00 & UP 
llalian 
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY 
WE SERVICE ALL MAKES 
IMPORTED & DOMESTIC 

BICYCLE CENTER 
OPEN MONDAY 'TIL 8:30PM Closed Sat. Sept. 9 and Mon. Sept. 18 Phone 287-1623 Daily 9:30 'lil5:30 1437 Portage Ave. 
Student Govt. Presents: 


ACTIVITIES NIGHT 
Wednesday Sept. 13th 7:00-11:30 pm LaFortune Student Center 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
-----------------------------------~ 
WANTED 

Need motorcycle. Marty 3316. 
Wanted: To buy. borrow. or rent a flexible 3Smm single reflex camera. Call John 8578. 
Wanted: one or two female roomies for Notre Dame Apts. Contact K. Ostermeyer in Bldg 832, Apt. 4C. No phone yet. 
Need tickets for Purdue. Call Walt, 6804. 
3 off-campus students seek 4th housemate. Private bedroom. 2 blocks past Corby's. Call 232-3560. 
1029 E. Miner 
Need ride to Pittsburgh. Friday September 15. Call Suzy 8031. 
Wanted: Houseparents. A married couple to live in home for girls. Only requirement is to help predelinquents. A team ap­proach, many supportive people around you. Free room and board 
.. Classified Ads are now being accepted for any edition of the Observer. The next publication is Wednesday, September 6, 1972. Deadline for publication of a classified is 1 : oo pm the day before publication. 
Some categories for Ob­server Classified Ads include: Want Ads, For Sale Ads, For Rent Ads, Travel Ads, Notices, and Personals. The Observer reserves the right to reject any objectionable Classified Ad request. Rates for classifieds are printed at the right. 
All Classified Ads are paid for in advance at the Observer office, second floor of La Fortune Student Center. For further information call 7471. 


L-------------------------------------~ 
<including dishes, linens, etc. J Plus $100 per month. Weekends off. Vacinity of campus. 233-9491. 
Wanted: Four generat admission Purdue tickets. Must be together. Call John 8810. 
Need Purdue fix. Wjll pay your price. Call 7819, 7812, or 7471. 
LOST 

Lost: black leather handbag on September 5 on ND campus. Contact S. Fitzmyer; 4381. REWARD. 
FOR SALE 

STEREO: Powerful tuner­cassette-amp. Record directly from AM, FM. BRS Turntable 
(incl.) Headphones with e~­tension. Catl 1477. 
For Sale: Couches $10-30 Chairs $3-7.50. Call Mrs. Cooper 272-3004. Free delivery to campus. Open Sunday 
NOTICES 

Time -Life-Spor.ts Illustrated at the lowest student rates. 283-8323! 
Morrissey Loan Fund Now open to NO students. Borrow up to $150. 11:15-12:15 Monday thru Friday. Basement of La Fortune. 
Watt's Discount, 738'12 South Michigan. Small doors and shelving, good for desk tops. 289­3380. 
Much thanx to all the people who made the Howard Cookout a great success. Hope to see you again. 
Words lda 2da 3da 4da 5da 
1-10 .65 .95 1.15 1.35 1.55 11-15 1.00 1.50 1.85 2.10 2.40 16-20 1.30 1.95 2.15 2.55 2.95 21-25 1.70 2.55 3.20 3.85 4.45 26-30 2.10 3.15 3.95 4.75 5.45 31-35 2.45 3.65 4.45 4.75 6.15 36-40 2.80 4.20 5.25 6.75 7.75 41-45 3.15 4.70 5.90 7.10 8.20 46-50 3.55 5.20 6.50 7.80 8.95 





