On The Inside 
Jerzy Kosinski ... Pg. 3 WallaC'e in Michigan ...pg. 5 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VI, No Ill Monday, April 17, 1972 
Full scale resumption 
US bombs Hanoi, Haiphong... 
by Malcolm W. Browne 

(c) 1972 New York Times Saigon, Monday, April 17--The aerial bom­bardment of North Vietnam, more or less suspended since 1968, underwent a full-scale resumption Sunday, including attacks on Hanoi itself. United States military authorities said Monday that the Sunday raids "on the outskirts of Hanoi" heavily damaged North Vietnamese petroleum storage areas. The massive attacks over large areas of North Vietnam included both tactical aircraft and heavy B-52 bombers, but the American command said only the smaller tactical aircraft, which attack by precision dive bombing, had been used in theHanoi area. The North Vietnamese defenders reportedly fired about 200 surface to air missiles in addition to thousands of anti-aircraft shells at the American planes, but an American spokesman said only two of the American planes had been downed. He identified the downed planes as a Navy A-7 attack. 
aircraft and an Air Force F-105 thunderchief. The pilot of one was rescued at sea. 
caught by surprise 
Over-all. the American spokesman said, the North Vietnamese appeared to have been caught by surprise by the raids, and anti-aircraft missiles were fired erratically. 
Late Sunday, radio Hanoi reported raids on the 

North Vietnamese capital and its port city of 
Haiphong. 
Soviet freighter hit 
The broadcast said the attacking American planes had hit a Soviet freighter in Haiphong Harbor, wounding a Russian officer. A similar incident during the height of the bombing in 1966 provoked a major diplomatic crisis. 



The Hanoi broadcast said "Waves of American pirate planes" flew over Hanoi Sunday, dropping bombs and firing rockets in populated areas. 
The American spokesman declined to add any details to his brief statement, which was the third issued by the American command here on the raids during the past 24 hours. 
An earlier statement had said only that the port of Haiphong had been bombed and that B-52's had been used in the raid. 
The new raids over North Vietnam are clearly intended to blunt the setbacks to morale and the political situation in South Vietnam that have resulted from a series of reverses at the hands of North Vietnamese ground forces. 
"vietnamizing" failing 
The failure of Saigon's forces to halt Hanoi's general offensive in several areas, especially the bitterly contested route 13 area, has suggested that President Nixon's policy of "vietnamizing" the war has been something less than total success. 
The raids over the North area are a pointed reminder that while the ground war may be in the process of Vietnamization, the United States is still capable of inflicting damage and casualties on the North without exposing its own troops. 
There was apparently little over-all change in the ground situation Sunday. These were among the highlights of the fighting: 
(continued on page 9) 

•••the Soviet Union responds by filing a formal complaiilt 
by Hedrick Smith <£') l!li2 New York Times 
Moscow. April 16--The Soviet Unlon made a formal protest to the United States today in reaction to the bombing of the North Vietnamese port city of Haiphong and warned that an escalation of the air war could aggravate not only the situation in In­dochina but "the international situation as a whole." 
· This was taken as a veiled warning that further pursuit of the heavy bombing campaign against North Vietnam could put President Nixon's visit to the Soviet Union next month in jeopardy. 
But American officials said that the Soviet government did not mention Nixons visit in making the protest, evidently an indication that as of now the Kremlin still wanted to go ahead with the summit meeting and the important round of negotiations that would involve limitations of strategic arms, Vietnam, the Middle East, Ger­many, trade and other matters. 
Ambassador Jacob D. Beam of the United States was summoned to the Soviet Foreign Ministry at 10:30 p.m. to hear an oral protest from Anatoly G. Kovalev, a deputy Foreign Minister. 
The contents of the protest were not made public. But while Beam was at the Foreign Ministry, Press Agency Tass issued an authorized statement asserting that the Soviet leadership was closely following the situation and that the Soviet people "wrathfully condemn these acts of aggression by the United Sattes in Vietnam." 
"The port· city of Haiphong and the suburbs of Hanoi were bombed and strafed," the Tass statement said. "Three are victims among the civilian population and serious material damage has been inflicted." · 
The public statement did not mention news reports that a Soviet vessel, the Simferopol. had been struck during the raid on Haiphong though there. were indications that the matter had been brought up in the private official protest. 
American officials declined to say whether the Soviet ship had been mentioned. They would say only that the Soviet protest had been "based on" the bombing of Haiphong and had been made "in connection with" the raids on the area. 

Apollo crew blasts off--heads lor the moon 
by John Nobh• Wilford (cll!li2 New York Times 

CAPE KENNEDY. FLA., April 16--The three astronauts of Apollo 16 embarked today on the nation's next-to-last mission to the moon in this decade and the first aimed at exploring the volcanic-like features of the lunar mountains. 
The planned 12-day mission for Capt. John 
W. Young and Lt. Comdr. Thomas K. Mattingly 2d of the Navy and Lt. Col. Charles M. Duke Jr. of the Air Force got underway at 12:54 pm, within milliseconds of the schedule. 
Orange flames billowed from the base of the mammoth Saturn 5 rocket. The 36-story moonship rose ponderously off the laun­ching pad. The earth shook for miles around, and thunderclaps of sound rolled across the sandy plain. The sky was so clear and blue that the rocket's fiery exhaust could be seen with the unaided eye for several minutes after lift-off, first as a glowing red arrow with a vapor trail, then as a tinv star over the Atlantic ocean. 
In less than 12 minutes after lift-off. the three stages of the Saturn 5 fired smoothly and placed the astronauts and their spacecraft into an orbit about 110 miles above earth. The Apollo 16 circled earth one and a half times. with the crew checking spacecraft systems and enjoying the view. 
"It's just beautiful up here!" exclaimed Young. the Mission Commander who had flown in space three times before. "Just really fantastic. And the thing worked like a gem." 
Then. nearly three hours after the laun­ching. the Rocket's third stage re-fired to thrust the spacecreft out of its low earth orbit and send the astronauts streaking on their moonward trajectory at an initial speed of 24.800 miles per hour. 
Apollo 16's objective is a landing on the moon on Thursday, April 20. The target is a rolling plateau among rugged mountains north of the Descartes crater, which is situated on the ~entral highlands in the lower right quadrant of the moon's visible face. 
Young and Duke plan to spend 73 hours on the lunar surface and, like the eight Americans who have preceded them, depl?J 
scientific instruments and collect rock 
samples. They are scheduled to take three 
excursions of seven hours each outside their 
landing craft. which is code-named Orion. 
· Mattingly is to pilot the command ship, named Casper, in lunar orbit while the other two astronauts are on the moon. 
Scientists are hoping that Apollo 16 will solve one of the moon's many mysteries-­\\·hether it ever had a hot. active interior that caused \'Olcanoes to spew lava and shape some of the lunar mountains and plains. Some of the craters in the landing area are thought to be extinct volcanoes. 
Such a discovery should enable scientists to reconstruct mu<;h of the early history of the moon. especially its violent formative period about four billion years ago. 
:\ioreover. smce about three-fourths of the moon's surface is mountainous, the Apollo ]() rock samples are expected to give scientists a clearer idea of the broader chemical and physical properties of the moon. The previous four moon landings took place in lunar plains or at the foot of mountains. 
Young and Duke are scheduled to end their lunar exploration next Sunday, rejoin Mattingly in lunar orbit and then set out on their earthward return journey on April 25. Splashdown in the Pacific Ocean is set for April 28. 



~--~­
2 
, 
,r ,r 
! 
r 
I 
~ 
~~--------~--~~------­
~ --------------~-~~---------­
17 1972
the observer 


Monday, Apr.illi~·~iiilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll.. 

Thesethree young men just made the discoveryof a lifetime. The oldest is34. 
Ilemember when a young man coultl get ahead in busi­ness simply by growing old? It was a good system for those with a little talent and a lot of patience, but today's technology moves too fast to wait for seniority. 
At Kodak, our extensive involvement in basic research has made the need for fresh, young thinking more press­ing than ever. So we hire the best new talent we possibly ean. Then we do both of us a favor by turning them loose on real problems, and giving them the freedom and re­sponsibility they need to solve them. 
That's how three Kodak scientists in their early thir­ties just made a breakthrough in liquid lasers, develop­ing an organic dye laser with a continuous beam. Their ctisco\·ery means more than just a new kind (Jf laser. It mean'i a whole range of new laser applit·ations, in fields from medicine to communic-ations. 
It was the kind of discovery most men work a lifetime for. Yet these young men Rtill have most of their life­times ahead of them. 
\Vhy do we gi\'e young men so much freedom and re­sponsibility? Because it's good business, and we're in business to make a profit. But in furthering our own busi­ness interests, we also further society's interests. And that's good. 
After all. our business depends on society. So we care what happens to it. 

fG More than abusiness. 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Monday, April 17, 1972 the observer 
3 
Saigon--All North Vietnamese troops and tanks had been driven out of Anloc. the encircled South Vietnamese provincial capital, South Vietnamese spokesmen said in Saigon. But route 13, the only road to 
the town, remained cut and strong North Vietnamese reinforcements were reported en route from Cambodia. 
on campus today 
3: 25--film, end of the trail: the american plains indian 1865-1968, cce



world 
theater. 
3: 30--lerture. diane wakoski, soph lit festival, library auditorium.
Belfast--Thr~e British soldiers were killed in rioting in the Roman Catholic sections of Belfast and Londonderry that began with the 4: DO--discussion to protest vietnam air escalation, fiesta lounge, 
killing Saturday of Joseph McCann, a popular Irish Republican Army 
Iafortune leader. and has continued almost without interruption since. The 4: 30--lecture, saul wofe, the gauche effect, 123 nieuwland.

briefs 
rioting dashed hopes that the Catholics would disown violence. 8:30--lecture, robert coover, soph lit festival, library auditorium. 
delegation meetings monday--7:00, michigan, farley hall basement 
<cl 1972 New York Times 
tuesday--7:00, mississippi, 124 dillon hall.
Albany--Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller asked the legislature for $12 million more to reform and improve the .New York State Prison System. Slightly more than half of the money would be used to in­at notre dame-saint mary's crease and train prison guards. Other funds would go to create a "maximum security" facility and for services and programs for prisoners. 

Newman, Kosinski open Soph Lit festivities 
New.man 

by Fred Schader Charles Newman. noted editor, critic and novelist, delivered the Keynote lecture of the Sophomore Literary Festival yesterday afternoon in the Library auditorium before an audience of approximately 125. Newman began his speech with a discussion of the state of the novel. He said, "it is more accurate to say that publishing as we know it is dying, not the novel." He pointed out that the real costs of publishing a book have doubled in the space of 10 years and the retail price is up three times. The number of sales needed to break even on a book is also up. However, the audience has not increased exponentially with the cost of the books. Newman said that another problem is that it is much harder to get published nowadays than it was five years ago and there also is a more limited audience for serious fiction. lie attributes this partly to the collapse of 'general interest' magazines, and another part of the problem is that writers don't read these 'general interest magazines.' "I am not protesting that book business is business, but that it is a certain kind of business." Newman continued. The publishing firms are conglomerates, and he contends that conglomerate products are defined by spinoffs. Therefore a novel is being defined by subsidiary functions, such 

Hiant• Wakoski ::::w I.ihrar~· Auditol'ium Hnbt'rl CmJVl't' ~: ::11 Library ,\uditorium 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester ex­cept vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556, second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 


Charles Newman 

as movie scripts. "A book's value is becoming increasingly dependent on the extent that it can be translated into another media . " Newman said. 
Newman feels that what is lacking today is a historical sense. "We feel we have a monopoly on lunacy. It cannot be demon­strated that there has been a quantitative increase in lunacy", he said. 
"We exist in a literary culture still dominated by modernist notions, and modernism is the most intensive expression of the myth of transition," declared Newman. The new myth, he maintains, is that we have no myths. "The Age of Apocalypse is over-not because it hasnt' happened. but because it happens every day'' he said. 
Turning his attention to the media, he 
feels that "the media has not preempted 
literature. as long as man has need of 
private experience. It's just that writers are 
no longer the celebrities they once were." 

Speaking as a writer, Newman said, "We might not beable to teach how to write. but \\·hat we can teach is that it's bad news to ask someone else to live your life for you, be it Tab Hunter. Mick Jagger. Ernest Hemingway or Ken Kesey." 


Kosinski 

by Mike Baum Speaking before a capacity crowd in Washington Hall, Jerzy Kosinski dealt with the subject of Fiction, and attempted, by anecdotes, illustrations, and personal ex­pression to convey his concept of Fiction in the world. Fiction, he feels, is a limited field-limited to a clique of writers and readers, who are, after a fashion, social deviates. Kosinski opened with a cautionary word concerning his talk, "I would never do anything that is not carefully thought out. What you are getting is probably ficticious. The answers I am going to give to your questions may not be my own answers ... You have to be very critical, not only of what you read, but of what you hear." Quoting a statistic taken two years ago, 
that 58 percent of those sampled had never finished a book, read it entirely through <save for the Bible or textbooks), Kosinski proceeded to d~tail the place of fiction and "reality" in human life. 
He cited television as a curious medium, 
neither reality nor non-reality. "It reduces all types of reality to one," he said, all ex­perience encapsulated on a florescent screen that "allows your distance to remain constant". 
In some ways, he suggested, television is "the primary reality", and he quoted the Wall street Journal to the effect that if you feel threatened by war and riots on the screen. what you must do is go outside, walk around the block, and breathe the fresh air. And realize that you are not personally threatened by what you see on the screen. 
Another instance-There are about 200,000 functional illiterates in New England. "On the average, for every book read, a college student sees twenty movies. "This is. 
, he feels, "a drive towards visual representation of reality, a device which gives us reality without threatening us as reality does." 
Kosinski recounted several cases from his own experience, of people who saw his novels as autobiographical, or expressly 
reflecting some actual event <an IRS :::e~m~--~~~ainiJiid~a~n~s~wiliernleilxilcilhliiaiiinligiieawmitilhoth~e-a~uifjd~ie~n_c_el.
i1 ;;;;;;;;;-.-;;;...,;;; I 
OPEN 

fil~ILY !2 15 

ployee who wanted to know which of his deductions as business expenses while travelling in Europe applied to which novell. 
He told about his experiences as a photographer in the Soviet Union, trying to explain to the authorities why he wished to photograph an empty field with a fence running across it. 
In all of this, perhaps, he tried to convey the inability of the majority of people to deal with the degree of abstraction involved in fiction." The writing of fiction has to be freaky, exceptionar' 
The writers and readers of fiction, he feels, are involved in a sort of conspiracy of social deviance. Fiction will exist he feels " ...On the margin of human existence. The majority will be doing something else." 
This clique of writers and readers are bound together, according to Kosinski; a joint creative act. 
"The writing of fiction is somehow an exit. You commit it to the inking ... You encode it in a crude kind of inking ... Once you encode it, it's taken away from you. It's in the heads of the readers," Kosinski explained. -"The act of reading is as creative as the act of writing fiction," he said. "The man who reads it creates it again in his mind. " 
The lecture was concluded with a question 



, 
r 
f 
r 
the observer Monday, April 17, 1972
4 



Campus armouncements•.• 
"Medicine for the Future· 

Noted surgeon and author Dr. William A. Nolen will speak on "Medicine for the Future" in his Arthur J. Schmitt Lecture at 8 p.m. Tuesday <April 18) in the Center for Continuing Education at the University of Notre Dame. 
Nolen is the author of the best­selling book "The Making of a Surgeon," which first appeared in condensed version in Reader's Digest. The book deals with his training at New · York's Bellevue Hospital. 
A Fellow of the American College of .Surgeons and Chief of Surgery at Meeker County Hospital in Minnesota, Nolen is also attending surgeon at the Hennepin General Hospital in Minneapolis, a teaching hospital associated with the University of Minnesota. 
His articles have appeared in McCall's, Vogue and many other general circlated magazines, as well as medical publications. He is now working on a second book which will deal with his post­Bellevue experiences. 
The Arthur J. Schmitt Lecture series is sponsored by the College of Science, with support from the Arthur J. Schmitt Foundation. 
Hesburgh 
honored 

Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University of Notre Dame, has been named "Clergyman of the Year" by Religious Heritage of America <RHAl, Washington, D.C. 
The 54-year-old priest, who is 
PAULIST DOESN'T WAIT TO BE ORDAINED 
TO GET INVOLVED. 
If you think that ordination is something like graduation -and the time in between is similar to marking time-then you couldn't be more mistaken. 
The Paulists were founded with the belief that each man is a member of the community and he contributes his own thing. Each is an individual with his own talents and he is given the freedom to use them in his own way. But not later. Now. 
For instance, during the no­vitiate, novices work in such diverse areas as hospitals, voca­tional rehabilitation centers and l Jniversities. They serve as assist­.tnt chaplains, co-retreat masters, student teachers and psychiatric aides. 
Paulist Seminarians create recreational programs, direct "Days of Recollection" for CCD students, direct film series, ex­periment with the use of media in the liturgy as a preaching tool, originate and edit the Paullst Free Press, coordinate Lenten lectures and organize Home Masses, to mention just a few. 
When you commit yourself to the Paulists, it isn't a someday thing. It's now. Today. 
For more information about the Paulists write to: Rev. Don­ald C. Campbell, C.S.P., Voca­tion Director, Room 300. 
pOOistfcthets. 
415 West 59th Street New York, N.Y. 10019 

approaching his 20th anniversary as president of Notre Dame, was honored for his "distinguished leadership in the areas of human rights, higher education, public affairs, foreign assistance programs and science." 
Father Hesburgh was appointed to the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights when it was established by President Eisenhower in 1957 and now serves as its chairman. He is also chairman of the Overseas Development Council and has served on the President's General Advisory Committee on Foreign Assistance Programs. 
He was a member of the board of the National Science Foundation and served three popes as Vatican City representative to the In­ternational Atomic Energy Commission. Currently, he is a member of the Carnegie Com­mission on the Future of Higher Education. 
Father Hesburgh received the Medal of Freedom, the nation's highest civilian honor, in 1964 from President Lyndon B. Johnson. 
RHA is a national interfaith religious and educational organization dedicated to preserving America's Judeo-Christian heritage. The awards will be presented at a banquet June 23 in Washington, D.C. 
Radio club 
officers 

The Notre Dame Amateur Radio Communications Club elected new officers at the April 13 meeting: President, Tim Kearney, sophomore student of electrical engineering; Vice-president, Mark Wenig, sophomore arts and letters student; and Sec.-Treas., Dan Kopetzky, freshman engineering student. 
"The Inlormation Pollution'' 
Dr. Ernest Eliel, professor of chemistry at the University of Notre Dame, will speak on "The Information Pollution --Can We Clean It Up?" at 8 p.m. Tuesday tApril 18l in the Monogram Room of the Athletic and Convocation Center. 
His address is the third in the annual series of Philip S. Moore lectures named in honor of the late Rev. Philip S. Moore, a former vice president for academic af­fairs at Notre Dame. The series was established to examine the relationship of science to public affairs. 
The lecture is sponsored by the University of Notre Dame Chapter of the Society of the Sigma Xi, and will follow its annual initiation and recognition dinner. The lecture is open to the public. 
The "Information Pollution" refers to the increasing flood of scientific and technical articles published in professional journals. While facilities to print and store such information is menaced primarily by the expense involved, means of retrieving the in­formation lags behind the storage capabilities. Eliel will discuss the functions of scientific literature, some problems associated with its present form and possible ap­proaches to a solution. 
A noted chemist in the area of conformational analysis, Eliel is a past president of the Notre Dame c.hapter of the Society of the Sigma Xi. He will speak primarily from his experiences as chairman of the committee on Publications of the American Chemical Society. 
Lindsay­

Kennedy merger 
Lindsay for President Chairman 
Glen Corso announced that his 
organization was merging with the 
Kennedy for President 
Organization and would work for 
the nomination of Edward Ken­
nedy at the Democratic Mock 
Convention. 
"None of us were content to sit 
by and watch George McGovern 
win, so we decided to turn to the 
only other liberal candidate to try 
and beat him." Corso stated. 

The groups will hold a joint meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in the Fiesta Lounge of LaFortune Student Center. Strategy and orgapization will be discussed. 

Doesn't General Electric 
realize the days ofenormous 
corporate profits are over? 
There was a time, fifty or sixty years ago, when a major corporation in America might expect profits of twenty or even twenty-five cents on the sales dollar. 
Those days are over. But not everybody realizes it. 
What would you call enormous? In 1970, Fortune's Top 500 indus­trial corporations realized an average ---~ ----profit of about 4 cents on 

General Electric fared slightly better than average. Last year, our profits amount­ed to about 5 cents 
on the dollar. We are occasion­
ally attacked, along with business in general, as being 
"too profit-oriented." People argue that if social progress is to be made, business must make it. And that profits stand in the way of social progress. 
We would argue quite the opposite. 
The business of business is not just business. 
The purpose of a busi­ness, as we see it, is to pro­duce and distribute necessary goods and serv­ices to the profit of society ... and the business itself. 
A business must re­flect society's needs. Eco­nomic, political, legal and moral, as well as social. Itmust change as society changes and, to some extent, influence those changes. 
GENERAL 
But if society profits and the busi­ness does not, the business will fold in the short run. It will have no operat­ing funds. 
How much profit is enough to keep a business operating? How much is too much? It's hard to say. 
However, the companies mak­ing only marginal profit are not the companies provid­ing new employment, creating new products or adding to man's scientific and technical knowledge. 

Marginal companies are not the ones making the important social con­tributions today. For a simple reason. They can't afford to. 
No i·esponsible company wants a return to the days of the robber bar­ons. No responsible company wants "enormous" profits. But no company can survive without the profit system. 
Why are we running this ad? 
General Electric is a big, techno­logical company, with the capabilities to do a great deal of problem solving 
in this country. We think profits have a direct effect on our ability to solve 
problems. But we realize the is­sue of profits is one with two sides. By telling you our side, we hope we've moved you to think about your side. Perhaps even write us about it. 
We'd like to hear what you have to say. Please write to General Electric, Dept. 901 
570 Lexington Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10021. 
Monday, April 17, 1972 the observer 
lD first Michigan skirmish
Wallace triumphs • 
by James T. Wooten 
(C) 1!172 New York Times 
DETROIT, APRIL 16--The battle for Michigan's 150 delegates to the Democratic National Convention is far from over, but George C. Wallace, one of its principal protagonists, has clearly won its first skirmish. 
Last night, while some 2,500 well­dressed people were gathering in gleaming Coho Hall to hear Senators George McGovern, Edmund S. Muskie and Hubert H. Humphrey talk about their presidential candidacies, at least four times that many people and perhaps more were flocking to an auditorium several miles away for a look at the Alabama Governor. 
He gave about 4,000 of them his standard campaign speech and then watched happily from the stage as his audience filed out and another 4,000 waiting impatiently outside scrambled in--and then he gave his new listeners the samespeech and jetted out of Detroit an immensely happy man. 
He left behind, according to a 
police estimates, approximately 
2,000 more people unable to 
shoulder their way into the jam­
med hall even for the Governor's 
encore appearance. 
It was a night the diminutive southerner will probably remember for several years to come--in the same way he enjoys recalling similar crowds who flocked to his rallies when he sought the Presidency as the third party candidate four years ago. 
The Governor is now considered 
by state political leaders as the 
frontrunner in the May primary, 
principally because his stands 
against busing and for tax reform 
have attracted the interest and the 
loyalty of a great many Michigan 
citizens. 
But he was purposely omitted from the list of candidates invited by the state party's hierarchy to appear at an annual fund-raising dinner here last night. 
They cited as the reason for the snub his refusal to pledge un­conditional support to the eventual democratic nominee. 
Wallace immediately recognized an opportunity to upstage the trio of Senators and the party establishment. Last night, with one major piece of strategy--the auditorium he rented at the State Fair Grounds was purposely chosen over an adjacent coliseum which seats 10,000-he did just that. 
The dinner downtown was nol by any means a failure, however. By charging $50 a plate, the state party raised a large sum for its own coffers, the three Senators found an enthusiastic audience, and those who came and paid seemed not to mind the com­petition for people and money. 
But the Alabama Governor's shadow hung over the Coho Hall rally. They were talking of Wallace taking anywhere from 20 per cent to 40 per cent of the primary vote in this traditionally liberal state, and some expressed fear that Hepublican crossovers could even give him a majority of the Michigan vote. 
But the heart of the Wallace strength isn't in crossovers. It is, instead in the white suburbs cir­
cling  Detroit  and  in  the  auto  
production  centers  of  Flint  and  
Pontiac.  

None of the three candidates at the Democratic rally, Muskie, McGovern or Humphrey, even mentioned busing in their talks to the Democratic faithful. Busing is the one issue that tears Michigan Democrats apart and it does not appear that it will go away soon. A federal judge here has said he will 
create  a  metropolitan  school  He waved  a  k_ey  to the city of  liking.  
district  in  the  Detroit  area  in­ Birmingham, whicli he picked up  His 33-year-old-wife, Cornelia,  
volving up  to  one  million school  during  a  one-hour  stop  there  sang with the country music band  
children. and from predominantly  Saturday before coming to Detroit,  that travels with him, short skirted  
Polish  Warren  to  predominantly  and wagered he would get a bigger  girls passed little plastic buckets  
Jewish  Oak  Park  suburban  share  of  Alabama's  Democratic  up and down  the aisles and his  
parents are enraged.  convention delegates than George  supporters happily peeled off cash  
The Wallace strategy definitely  Wallace would get of Michigan's.  contributions.  The Governor shed  
had its effects  on  the other  can­ "If  I'm  your  president  we're  his blue, double-knit blazer before  
didates in Detroit Saturday night.  going to take care of this country  launching into his second speech.  
McGovern  bitterly  attacked  first, foremost and all of the time,"  By the time it was over, his aides  
what he called the "Establishment  he said.  had  carried two wooden lockers  
center."  crammed with  money  to  a  car  
Muskie spent the heart of his talk  But  at  the  Wallace  rally  the  waiting outside.  
attacking  President  Nixon's  Governor's  crowds  were  simply  "You know,"  a  beaming  staff  
failure to end the war.  overwhelming.  and  the  member remarked sardonically to  
And  Humphrey,  who  spoke  as  low-ceiling auditorium  was  filled  a perspiring photographer  as  the  
long  as  the other  two  combined,  with the screams and shouts and  hall emptied, "it's just that folks  
had a little something for most of  whistles of the  men  and  women  don't  realize  just  how  big  his  
the Labor-Liberal crowd.  who find him immensely  to their  region is."  

Blackout due to lightning strike; students engage in fireaacker war 
firecrackers began exploding all with the lights. by Don Ruane over the campus. 
The blackout was capped when a 
Friday night's blackout, which Badin and Howard Halls started number of students from the South touched off a campus wide fire residents lobbing them back and Quad marched to Walsh in search cracker war and panty raid to forth from their windows along of King Kersten. When told he was SMC, was caused by a lightning with appropriate curses. Dirt unavailable to join them, they strike, which sent a surge of splattered on the walls of Badin continued on to St. Mary's for the electricity through a control during the fight was still clinging first panty raid of the spring. panel. late Sunday inspite of the rain. 
Unfortunately, it was reported 
According to Chief Engineer While roman candles lit the night that at least one shuttle bus win William Ganser, the midnight sky, residents of the upper floors in dow was broken. Security would surge knocked out the controls to several halls, delited themselves not confirm the report, suggesting one of two large boilers, and forced by playing prison watch tower by that the Observer wait the other to shut down when it directing flashlight beams onto the until today and speak with the became overloaded. sidewalks below, and following the director. However, the Observer 
The entire campus was without a war with explosives, with has confirmed that several win­power for about 10 minutes, but firecracker army and strollers dows were broken in Regina Hall some halls were reported out for more than two hours. Damage amounted to between $300 and $400. Ganser said. 
Shortly after the spotlights stopped lighting the Golden Dome, bombs. ash cans, and packets of 255·4771 
Homan candles, flares, cherry 

IRELAND'S FIGHT FOR FREEDOM 
TltE 
IRISH CRISIS 
un••••tlo•u runolfOIII @ 

THE IRISH CRISIS 
C. Desmond Greaves Paper $2.65 
The roots of Ireland's Civil Rights Movement are sharply traced from Partition (1920) to the present armed struggle. The author, editor of the Irish Democrat (london), shows that a united Ireland would be in the interest of both the English and Irish peoples. 
THE LIFE AND TIMES OF JAMES CONNOLLY 
C. Desmond Greaves Paper $1.65 
A classic biography of Ireland's great­est labor leader who was executed by the British for his role in the Easter Re­bellion of 1916. He was a founder of the modern Irish Socialist and republi­can movements, as well as of the American IWW. 
INTERNATIONAL PUBLISHERS 
381 Park Avenue South, New York, N.Y. 10016 
iii1 ~~, 
IRELAND AND THE
JJ.f..!J:..!...:.j,:.J:..!J 
IRISH QUESTION
~~IDJTOO~ i.R~Iq
ntfES''IION Marx & Engels Paper $2.95 Marx and Engels' attention to the


""·N·' 
problems of Irish freedom is strikingly documented in these writings. Some
A::O:l:dmn cfW:iting::b; 
appear for the first time in English, in­
K.HRbl~ 
cluding notes and fragments from En­
Jl',SDf.ltl~ ~(!! 
gels' unfinished history of Ireland. 

IRELAND 
--: ' POSTER" OF ONE OF THE
COLOR IN THIS "MINI-\
HER OWN 
PRESIDENTIAL \ 
CANDIDATES!
T. A. jackson Paper $1.95 
1. Buy u bunch ot Flair pens. You need \, ! 3. Congratulations! You have created a
The conquest of Ireland started Eng­
wuy, biLKk, orange, pur·ple, yellow and ' genuine full color portrait of someone
land on its way toward Empire and 
blue. (You need them any :1ay for school.) ,~ you know and love. Maybe. If he or she
subsequent acts of colonial suppres­
l is not your favorite presidential candi·
2. Now ·-·color in tht: pictu1·e accor·cling to 1 
sion. The full story of the Irish people's 
elate, have patience. You'll see yourfavpr·
l11ese color guide numbers. (10). Gray (1).
eight hundred years of struggle for 
ite soon in the Flair Election Collection!
Black (6). Orange (9). Purple (7). Yelle:;
freedom is told in this concise, excit­
(3). Blue. Please clo not color unnumbered (Don't forget to ask about Flair's running 
ing history. 
mate, the Flair Hot Liner.)
areas. 

THE OBSERVER 
AN  INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER  
John Abowd  Jim Jendryk  
News: 283-1715  Editor-in-chief  Business Manager  
Editorial: 283-8661  
Business: 283-747\  Don Ruane  Bill Bauerle  
ExectJtive Editor  Advertising Manager  

Editorials printed in The Observer reflect the opinion of the writer, on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial comment. 
Monday, April l7, 1972 
The Bombing Must Be Stopped 

We're bombing North VietNam again. 
Four years ago, we stopped the bom­bing and started talking peace. Now, we've stopped the talking and starting the killing again. Though the killing never did completely stop, we've resumed the strikes into the hearts of the major cities of the North. 
A French correspondent described the chaos like this: "Some pellets hit clients of a local restaurant, where they were sipping beer or coffee or eating. This correspondent arrived a little later on the scene and could see evidence of still-fresh 'blood left by the dead and the wounded, who had been taken to the nearest hospital. Rescue workers, stained with victim's blood, told journalists that the sudden attack had taken people by 
surprise  as  they  strolled  on  this  first  
warm  Sunday of the year  after  a  very  
kmg winter."  

From the way it looks, not only had Nixon fooled us into believing that he was ending the war, he also fooled the North Vietnamese. He fooled them all, even the women and children of North Vietnam's largest cities. 
Four years ago, a man named Nixon told us all he had a solution to the war. He told us that he was going to end the war. Yet during the war years under Nixon, he has precipitated intrusions into Laos and Cambodia and now has renewed the bombing of the North. 
Four years ago, a man named Johnson was forced out of office because he precipitated a war in a way that the American people didn't like. He tried to redeem himself by stopping the bombing, but now Nixon has put us back onto the path that has killed fifty thousand of her young men. 
So , we're bombing again and we're bombing in hopes of redeeming a cause that the American people have given up on. We're bombing in pursuit of a goal that has long ago been discredited, in defense of a regime that has in the most part been rejected by its people, and in defiance of the wishes of most Americans. 
The bombing is a senseless, merciless act attempting to merely save face in the wake of a strong VC offensive and gain political power in the upcoming Soviet­
U.S. talks. There is no purpose to it. Even <tt it's height, in 1967-68, our bombs couldn't stop the infiltration of men and supplies from the North to the South. We surely cannot stop it now. Furthermore, military personnel claim that the bom­bings will have no immediate effect on the North Vietnamese offensive. Rather, they estimate that the effect will be noticeable sometime between July and election day. Interesting. 
The consequences of the attack are immense. The raids are unquestionably a political move. Top commanders and reporters all agree that the raids have no immediate military effect. The raids do have immense political effect for Nixon, though. 
The thought is that these present raids will slow the war in the days prior to the election and further solidify Nixon's grasp on the presidential reigns. 
The raids also were to have a good effect on the Soviet-U.S. talk. However, this has to some extent been destroyed. The U.S. bombings have reportedly killed a Soviet seaman who was aboard a Russian ship in Haiphong harbor. The Soviets have registered a formal com­plaint and the results could lead to the largest diploma tic problem the U.S. has faced in quite a while, thus washing out any favorable effect on the talks. 
The first political effect is one that the United States people· and Congress must not allow to happen. Itis their duty to stop Nixon from playing political games with something as terrible as war. 
He cannot use the war as an instrument to regain his position in the White House. All we can hope for is that Nixon falls to the war just as Johnson did in 1968. He has misled us and deceived us and he cannot be allowed to continue. 
War is hell as the cliche goes and we're precipitating a situation that creates a hell in some faraway land. The cry has got to go out to Lyndon Baines Nixon that the American people are tired of this. The 
-bombing must be stopped. 
Jerry Lutkus 
staff 
Night Editor: Dan Barrett, Beth Hall Layout: Maria Gallagher, Clark Eide Headlines: Pete Fries, Jerry Lutkus Headliner: Marty Miller Day Editor: Tom Bornholdt Night Controller: hjs 
New y0 r k uuu1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
The Sports Crisis 
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 James Reston 
(c) 1972 New York Times 
New York, April 13--There is bad news from the baseball front these 
days. The big league players are ending their strike before the sunny 
weather begins, and as any nit-wit knows, watching baseball in a topcoat 
is almost as silly as sweating out a pro-football game in August. 
The idea of unionized ball players, with strikes and eventually double­
time for over-time games, is a little hard to take, but organized baseball 
is almost the last symbol of involuntary servitude in this country, and 
anyway, anything that cuts down the length of the sports seasons, even 
strikes, can't be all bad. 
Inflation has hit the world of sports even harder than the world of 
politics or commerce. The price of quarterbacks and tackles on the hoof 
has gone up even higher than the price of beef, and the sports seasons now 
last almost as long as the presidential primaries. 
There isn't a single professional sports season now that doesn't go on at 
least a month too long. Baseball starts in football weather, and football in 
baseball weather, and basketball overlaps them both. It starts around 
world series time and goes on among the wounded until Easter, when the 
play-offs start, and then the play-offs of the play-offs until Memorial Day, 
when football spring training is already over. 
What has happened, of course, is that commercialized sport has 
become the most lucrative and popular entertainment in America today, 
and no wonder. The jet airplane has expanded its reach to the boundaries 
of the Republic, and the television has inflated the earnings of the sports 
arenas and the sports stars beyond the dreams of the leading managers, 
ladies, and heroes of stage and even screen. 
The Big Games are definite, dramatic and free. For t~e Average Joe, 
and even for the President of the United States, th~y are a relief from the 
endless uncertainties of job and family. They have a beginning, a middle 
or half-time (with music and pretty girls) and an end, when you know who 
has won. What else is so sure, so interesting, and so available at the flick 
of a television switch? 
But even an old geezer and sports buff has to wonder whether the sports 
promoters are not going too far and getting into trouble. The longer the 
seasons. the higher the profits. Okay. But the more they take out of the 
players, the more the players demand. And one day, if they all go on too 
long and demand too much, they will lose the magic. 
The lesson of the baseball strike is that almost nobody missed them. 
I<~ven in Brooklyn and Queens, where they grieve for Gil Hodges and root 
for Yogi Berra, Hodge's successor as manager of the New York Mets, 
there was no rebellion to start the season in the cold and rainy spring. 
In their commercial competition for the television contracts and the coming sports stars, the promoters are killing one another. They are turning sport into commerce, and while it worked for a while to the 
benefit of both the promoters and the players, they are now in danger of hurting everybody concerned. 
Sports in America, with all its excitement, and its problems, dramatizes many other aspects of American life. It begins with ideals and ends with commercial success. But it devours its heroes. 
Watch the old basketball warriors like Wilt Chamberlain of the Los Angeles Lakers in the play-offs, or the old political pros like Hubert llumphrey of Minnesota in the primaries, both struggling to control 
forces beyond their control. The game has gone on too long. There are no rules that will reconcile human energy and human am­bition. no means of testing men other than by exhausting them. The sports heroes live by the gate receipts, the politicians by the polls, and both by television. but somehow the system doesn't work, and the game plays out. This is what has happened with the baseball owners and their players in the strike. They have stopped the game in order to rewrite the rules, but they haven't succeeded. Maybe they should have gone on longer, because everything is out of season, and needs to be cut down to size. 
Monday, April 17, 1972 the observer 
I

tu II s thick as a brick: good, but 
where have i heard it before? 
(At the time of writing of this review, Thick as a Brick has not been released in the United States, and it is reported that it will not be until May 3. Mr. Abell draws his comments from listening to an English imported version of the album and stresses that that is all he is reviewing. Whether or not the American version will be similar remains to be seen. --ed.) 
So Jethro Tull has done it again. They've produced an album with a single theme and musicianship excellante, and have called it Thick as a Brick. Ho hum. 
So what's so boring about it? Could it be the two single-cut sides, a Ia Moody Blues, that hardly give one time to think before the next song comes up (and hell when one goes to play a singlt song l? Could it be the long periods of unmusical-like sounds that seem to dot the disc like rust on a brand new Triumph? Surely it couldn't be just the increased and heavy-handed use of the organ that seems to slow down the pace? Or the occasional spots where Tull seems to get lost in their own complexity? 
Maybe, but there's one thing that seems to 
enhance all those --the general feeling of 
"I've heard it someplace before." The 
same hard, driving beat, the same brilliant 
fluteword of leader (and group per­
sonification) Ian Anderson, the same vir­
tuoso guitar of Martin Barre, it's all there, 
hut there's nothing new: no group 
evolution. no new discoveries of profound 
ideas. no new directions. It has the 
brilliance of Aqualung matched, but that's 
about all. 
Granted, that's saying a lot about an 
album-length work. Few rock bands can 
t-qual the dynamically-charged per­
formance put on by Tull, either in person or 
in a studio. So hence. the album is a 
masterpiece in its own right. But instead of 
having separate events of music very neatly 
divided into four -and five-minute 
segments, the entire album is a single set of 
lyrics set to different tunes. This a.llows Tull 
to build one piece on another to he1ght~n th~ 
tension and excitement of the music, an 
effect pulled off quite well in Aqualung. But 
the difference here is that there is no break 
between tunes. something that doesn't seem 
possible in light of usual recording customs 
of mixing and editing separately-recorded 

elton john 

One of the year's most acclaimed riano stylists, Elton John, will be presented in concert by the Student Union Social Com­mission of the University of Notre Dame on Wednesday, May 3. Tickets for the_single performance at 8 p.m. in the Athletic and Convocation Center are now on sale. 
His "Elton John" album that helped catapult him to international fame was recently selected by Stereo Review magazine for a "Record of the Year" award. Playboy magazine awarded him first place honors in the piano category and elected him to an all-star band with such notables as Buddy Rich, Paul McCartney, Miles Davis, Stan Getz and others. 
Considered by many as England's most significant musical export since the Beatles, John has four gold LP's to his credit, each signifying sales in excess of $1-million. His newest album. "Honky Chateau." was 

;,~;,E. M;,TON IN scHoOL-Mongrel do! 
GIRl PRlGNANCY ROW SOilS 3C\Or > 
toot · 
DIRECTOR ACCUSED 
U.EO. SIGHTING SENSATION 
Jethro Tull's latest: Supposedly derived from "Little Milton's" (the kid in the picture) poem. Don't let them fool you; I an Anderson's the man behind the pen. And yes, there is a page 7 with a"Jethro Tull feature." Album -Jim Hunt. 

cuts. (According to interviews published in Circus magazine, however, this is exactly what Tull did --recorded a single 45-minute cut in the studio. The reason? To be able to play the entire album in future concerts. It's rumored they'll be doing just that -in Tuesday night's concert.) 
u.nfortunately: while. Tull increases the ex~Itment more. effec~Ively,. somehow. the 
,satlsfa~twn that IS achieved m the previOus album Is rarely reached. The musrc seems to increase a~d increase. in dr~ve until it just collapses of Its own weight, mstead of the slow, graceful decline seen in Aqualung. The listener fee!s frustrated and rather cheated on occasron. The best example of this is on the first side, the second cut, where the music explodes after the relative tranquility of the first cut,yet only succeeds in quickly losing its momentum in different musical motives. In the attempt to build up tension further and further, Tull seems to lose all control and wanders aimlessly around, searching for the right motive with which to continue the piece. This changing of motives is reminiscent of Yes, yet Tull can't seem to achieve the symphony-like precision of Yes, and the entire piece is weakened. 
By far the best cuts are the first and fourth on the first side, and the second and fifth on the second. The first of these could 
may 3 some food for thought 
by Boyce Rensberger 
(c) 1972 New York Times 
New York--Three New York psychiatrists say they are seeing more cases of sexual impotence among young men than ever before. They say the cause appears to be that the increased sexual freedom of women in recent years is leading women to demand more of their male partners. 
llt-retofore. the psychiatrists said, the "average expectable sexual behavior" of women was more passive and, therefore, less threatening to their male partners. One eause of impotence--anxiety over whether one is going to be able to satisfy a woman-­was not so common years ago. 
The psychiatrists said that without a sociological survey they could not say \rhether there were actually more case of impotel!ce. It may be, they said, that men are not experiencing impotence any more often than before but that its impact on the man is so much greater now that more men art-prompted to seek psychiatric help. 
The psychiatrists--Or. George L. Gin­sberg of the New York University School of l\ledicine and Dr. William A. Frosch and Dr. Theodore Shapiro. both of BdlevueHospital­-made their report in the current issue of the .-\rchives of General Psychiatry. 
Thev said their conclusions were based on eases both of young men reporting their 0\m impotence and of young women com­plaining of impotence in their lovers. 
(;insberg said in a telephone interview that the conclusions were based on his own g£>n£>ral clinical impressions and those of colleagues. rather than on a statistical studv. Such a study. he said, should be conducted to comfirm the impressions. 
1\onetheless. Ginsberg said. the increase in complai11ts of impotence is "quite striking and quite substantial." Until now, preceded by "Elton John," "Tumbleweed Connection," and "Friends." 
.Joining John in his Notre Dame ap­pearance will be Nigel Olsson on drums, Dee Murray on bass and Davey Johnston on lead guitar. His lyricist, Bernie Taupin, first met him when they both answered an ad for fledgling composers four years ago, and they've been working together ever since. 
This is the entertainer's third U.S. tour since becoming an international celebrity barely two years ago. He recently com­pleted a tour of England, Scotland, Ger­many, Italy and Holland that included a concert in London's Royal Festival Hall with the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra. 
Tickets are priced at $2.75, $4.50 and $5.50 and may be purchased at the ACC, Pan­dora's Book store, Witmer-McNease stores and AI Smith's record bar. 
;oseph abel/ 
he called the "title song," as it deals with the title of the album and the setting of the theme as concerning itself with how society treats its subjects. A very lyrical piece, it is heard again at the end of the album as Tull restates their thesis. The fourth piece on that sidt is likewise lyrical and is very reminiscent of "Mother Goose" from Aqualung, inasmuch as it is a very childlike, innocent song, yet overtures of evil can be sensed around the edges. Its only real fault is in its short length. The second cut (on the opposite side l 's outstanding feature is its presentation of Martin Barre's excellent guitarwork. One of the fine, but generally unrecognized guitarists, Barre shines his brightest on this cut, which brings back memories of Aqualung's "Slipstream." Finally, the last cut of the album is an overture-like piece, including most of the musical motives already presented. Though it occasionally sounds jerky, the total effect is quite pleasing, especially the final fading back into the album's first theme. 
Now, the album cover--that's another story altogether. This has got to be the most unusual packaging put around a disc in one hell of a long time. An entire twelve-page tabloid of newspaper ,completely written-as a satire on English publications, the caver is a very intricately designed and carefully executed project. Nearly every news or other kind of story contains some reference to the lyrics of the album (which are touted to be the product of "Gerald 'Little Milton' Bostock,' 'an· 8-year-old poet prodigy) ,while at the same time showing up the nuances of the British press. Quite an accomplishment, but I wonder just how effective this will be in the United States; how relevant and obvious the satire will be if no one here knows what an English newspaper is really like. Perhaps the American version will have slightly different packaging. 
On the whole, the album has quite a few excellent motives, and generally succeeds in presenting its theme (something I haven't gone into here in great detail because in­terpretation of lyrics is a thing for the in­dividual l. In spite of its faults, it is a fine example of Tull talents, however familiar, and a work that can be considered, if not as major as Aqualung, certainly nothing to be ignored. 
younger people." 
Formerly, the doctors wrote, patients with impotence were, for the most part, married men who gradually began to abandon sexual activity with their wives after a period of more successful sexual functioning. 
"They complained that the excitement had passed," the psychiatrists .continued, "and that their wives no longer provided the variety in sexual practices they craved. Impotence was accompanied by minimal anxiety: they usually had conscious fan­tasies about the secretary at work, the girl next door, etc., and felt confident that novel objects or practices could revive their in­terest. This conviction prevented the emergence of major anxiety and resulted in 
indifference to their wives' plaints." 
Today, however, the situation is different. "Currently," the authors said, "young men describe failures occurring early in their relationships. Following such early failure they become preoccupied with its meaning to their manhood. They either withdraw or, more characteristically, venture into counterphobic attempts to regain self­respect." In a counterphobic attempt a person tries again to do what he fears he will fail at. 
"When we explored these sexual failures occurring early in a relationship," the psychiatrist<; wrote, "we found a common male complaint: these newly freed women d£>manded sexual performace." 
"There is a reversal of former roles," 
they said. "The role of the put-upon Vic­
torian woman is that of the put-upon man of 
the 1970's." Inhibited women can often hide 
their lack of response, the psychiatraists 
wrote. but impotent men cannot. 
'---------------------------------~~uid."It~sb~nvffyun~~l~eeit~ 
-~-~~-~--~----------------~­
the observer Monday, April 17, 1972
8 

)ATTENTION
B-52 crews face no more 'milk runs I ALL 

and hiding. In fact, there's a new that the B-52's are flying deeper identified. They said they had been spirit too. ·Guys are saying, "We're into North Vietnam into risky told not to talk to newsmen, and
by Sydney II. Schanberg 
finally really hitting them, so let's areas they had avoided before. The that some of their acquaitances
(CH!In New York Times 
get up there and fly and get it other is a heavy build-up in enemy had been misquoted in the past.
lJTAPHAO, THAILAND, April done."' 
missile sites in areas that had
16--At this huge B-52 base that One B-52 was hit several days been relatively safe. Newsmen are generally barred sprawls against the gulf of Siam ago by missile fragments and had The B-52 crews do not talk openly from the five air bases in Thailand, there is a new and evident tension to make an emergency landing for about their new fears, but their which provide the bulk of the air among the bomber crews, who for repairs at Danang Air Base in tension is never far from the support for allied operations in the first time are coming under South Vietnam. No one in the crew surface. Indochina. American pilots also close fire from North Vietnamese was injured and theplane is back at "If we'd clobbered them back in operate out of Danang, Okinawa 
surface-to-air missiles. 
this base 80 miles southeast of 1965 instead of giving them time to and Guam. "Our guys had been flying these Bangkok. It was reported to be the build up their defenses, the warbombing runs like milk runs for first B-52 struck by enemy fire in would have been over by now," Guam and the Utaphao airfield years now," said a nonflying air the Vietnam war. said one airman over a beer at the here are the only two bases for the 
force officer. "Now they're being The Stratofortresses, which 
Durango Bar a few miles from the B-52 bombers. They have been shot at for the first time. They're carry up to 30 tons of bombs, fly at base. flying out of Utaphao since 1967. reporting Sam's missing them by a bout :Jo.ooo feet; this is to high for "It's easy for civilians in Technically the bases in only 500 feet--and that's close. antiaircraft fire but not for the Washington to take risks with Thailand are operated by the 
Another officer added: "A lot of Soviet-made Sam Missiles. military lives," said another ( ;overnment. but this is little them are scared now. But they're There are two reasons why the bitterly. more than a polite fiction. At not so scared that they're running missiles are now a threat. One is Non~ of the men wanted to be lltaphao. for example, there are 
7.000 Americans and only 2,000 Thais. The air activity is all Anwrican.
Profs lead march on IRS office; 
One can stand for hours on the road that fringes the base-­
vvar protest to continue today 
separated from the runwayby only that slowed down as they passed. students from Notre Dame. Noell ~Oil yards and a cyclone fence -and 
by Don Huane 
South Bend requirers all marchers called it "a very homogenous watch nothing but the camouflaged 
No tax money for bombs! No to have a city parade permit to group." B-52's and silvery KC-135's taking Nixon-Agnew War! Stop the march on a public street. Leaders Elaborating on the reasons for off and landing, with an occasional bombing 1 are slogans you may of today's march are expected to the march, Noell said, "The C-I:JO transport bringing in sup­have read late Sunday afternoon if file for such a permit this morning escalation is lessening the chances plies. you were driving by the Internal in the office of Public Works and of getting a favorable peace, and Hevenue Service at 1317 Safety. Fink said he was unsure if lessening the chances of freeing The KC-135's, a fuel tanker Mishawaka Ave., South Beend. he was authorized to seek such a the prisoners of war.'' Fink said he adaptation of the Boeing 707, do the 
Approximately 50 persons led by permit because yesterday.'s felt it was time for something to be refueling of the F-4's and other marchers did not represent any done after he read in this mor­fighter bombers that fly out of
Notre Dame sociology professors l<~dward L. Fink and James Noell, organized group and because he ning's paper that Haiphong had three other bases in Thailand-­were protesting the escalation of does not consider himself the been bombed and later heard that lldorn. Ubon and Korat. They 
leader of the marchers. Hanoi had also been bombed. He carry out the refueling either overthe bombing in North Vietnam, 
Marching with the two said that the majority of Thailand or friendly neighboring
and plan to continue their protest today at 5 p.m. in front of the same professors were co-organizer Americans are against the war, territory and for that reason they 
building. Maurece Neaghu, regional adding that there was popular are not camouflaged. The group, according to Noell, director of the National Coalition support for their cause , expressed for Peace and Justice; a number of by passersby and those filing last­It is difficult to tell how much the 
marched from 5 p.m. until 6 p.m., but drew very little attention from other ND professors: one St. minute tax returns at the IRS bombing has been stepped up since the few passerbys. Noell was told, Mary's professor; some members building. the enemy offensive in South 
"Unofficially," that an unmarked of the community: and some un-Noell added that the bombing \'ietnam. But to the layman's eye, police car was among several cars dergraduate and graduate escalation "signals policy the traffic at the base seems ex­
a change," whether it be implicit or tremely heavy. Pxplicit. and it ''shows Nixon
Search committee seeks 
doesn't really have a plan to get us In preparation for the an­nut of the war." ticipated offensive, extra B-52's were brought here and others were

Academic Vice-President 
In addition to this afternoon's added on Guam later. More than 30 president designate Dr. Edward march. the group plans to leaflet could be counted from the road
h~· {'arul W1•iss 
llenry as to its organization and Tuesday night when presidential outside the Utaphao base. 
The search for a new Academic aims. candidate George C. Wallace Vice-President to replace Dr. Jack Once the field has been speaks in the Morris Civic According to American airmen lletzler has already drawn 40~50 narrowed. qualified candidates Auditorium. There will be a here there are plenty of planes but 
not enough crews, which explainsapplicants. according to Dr. An­will be called in for interviews. meeting at 4 p.m. in the Fiesta 
thony Black, chairman of the Student -fa cui ty opm10n is I .ounge of La Fortune Student the heavy schedules for the fliers. St•arch Committee. wdcomed concerning the concept Center to discuss ways to protest The crews--all of them here on ('andidates for the position were of an administrator devoted to the the escalation. It will be led by Don short tours of only two or three 
months--are flying for stretches of sought through the weekly idea of a small. Catholic liberal Mooney and Kathy Barlow. 
( 'hnmidt• uf lliglwr Edu(•ation, arts college for women. II days before they get a day off. 

GRADUA­
TING STUDENTS 
MEASUREMENTS 
will be taken 
for 



COLLE­GIATE CAPS 
and 
GOWNS 
Wednesday, 
April 19 
Thursday, 
April 20 

between 
9:00 -4:00 
at the 
NOTRE DAME 
BOOKSTORE 

and from St. Mary's. Dr. Black also asked faculty members to submit nominations. 
Dossiers will be reviewed at a nweting this Tuesday and a choice should be made by mid-May. Two students and six faculty members comprise the search committee, which was briefed last Friday by 

Anyone seeking the following positions with The Social Commission, please apply at the Social Commission Office or call Joe Prochaska, 
1. 
Assistant Commissioner 

2. 
Special Proiects 

3. 
Homecoming 

4. 
Mardi Gras 

5. 
Business Manager 

6. 
Tickets 

7. 
Promotions 


Monday, April 11, 1972 the observer 9 
--~~--------------~~------------










Bastogne outpost remains cut off 

said to oe continuing. Officials have not mentioned 
(continued from page I) --Communist gunners fired opposition by enemy fighter 
--The Bes1eged South Viet­rockets, mortar shells and other planes, but Sunday, 15 reports of namese outpost Bastogne, 19 miles shells in towns, cities, outposts and sightings of enemy aircraft were southwest of Hue, where 500 troops military installations in many heard on pilots' radios in the space are dangerously short of supplies, parts of the country Saturday night of only 40 minutes. All the sightings remained cut off Sunday but was and Sunday. Among the main presumably were over North still fighting. An airdrop of sup­cities hit by harassing fire were the Vietnam. plies Saturday missed the base and coastal town of Danang and the The United States command lists had to be destroyed by bombing to Mekong River Delta cities of missile and antiaircraft sites, prevent it from falling into enemy Mytho and Canho. Attacks of this roads, trucks, ferries, barges, hands, but another attempt was type are occurring regularly in the bridges and warehouses in North made today which may have been Mekong Delta now. Vietnam as having been destroyed successful. Defenders are said to According to a spokesman, South in addition to four enemy tanks. be relying heavily on captured Vietnamese Ranger and tank units The communique did not say communist weapons and am­fought two engagements near where any of the targets were. 
munition. Dongha Saturday, killing 109 of the The seventh fleet, standing off --Reporters at Kontum, a key enemy for a loss of only one killed. the coast of North Vietnam, added town in Vietnam's central Tne air war ove-r both North and its shells and missiles to the 
highlands, said the atmosphere South Vietnam Sunday was in­bombardment being conducted by there seemed grim with com­tense. Enemy opposition to the air planes. manders expecting a major North strikes, particularly in North A spokesman said seventh fleet 
Vietnamese onslaught at any time. Vietnam, also apparently was ships had hammered coastal Very large enemy forces are intense. defenses and logistics areas and known to have concentrated in the The American command here destroyed "seven units of enemy area and firebases all around said that during the period bet­coastal shipping." The command 
Kontum are being shelled by 130 ween April9 through Saturday, 275 said no navy ships had been millimeter long range artillery. sorties had been flown over North damaged. 
--Farther south in the Central South Vietnamese officials gave 
Vietnam in addition to an un­
Highlands, the vital road linking disclosed number of B-52 sorties. the most optimistic picture of any Pleiku with Ankhe--route 19--still More than one hundred enemy during the past week about the reportedly was cut by enemy surface to air situation in Anloc. They said the
missiles were 
forces. South Vietnamese and city had been completely cleared
said to have been fired at the Korean clearing operations were Americans during the period. of enemy troops and tanks by 
Referendum vote on new constitution set for April 20 
similar to tne present SLC ploying the type of spoils system
by Bob Sauer 
districts. In addition, the Hall seen in the past. 
Student Body President Bob President's Council Chairman The ratification of the new Kersten has announced that the would sit on the board with voting constitution will be effected by constitution drawn up by a special powers. The members of the means of a poll conducted in the committee earlier this year will be board, with the. exception of the halls by the section leaders. Off voted on by the student body this HPC Chairman, would also serve campus students will be polled in Thursday, April 20, after some as the student body's represen­the off campus office. A simple minor revision. The proposed tatives to the Student Life Council majority of those voting will be constitution is based on ideas and assume the duties of the now necessary to ratify the new con­
presented by Ed Ellis and Fred defunct student senate. stitution, which would then go-into 
Giuffrida, both former members of Basically, what the new plan effect immediately. 
the student government cabinet. attempts to do, is concentrate all Both Kersten and his SBVP, Ed 
The constitution incorporates the the power of student government Gray, favor the proposed con­
principles of township government into a small unit of elected stitution. Gray said he felt the new into the student government representatives in order to provide constitution would be "an im­structure. The document calls for a for the more efficient functioning mense improvement over the 
nine man Board of Commissioners of the organization. It seeks to vastly ineffective structure we've to oversee the entire operation of eliminate the so called "pooh­had to work with in the past." He student government. The Board of bahism" of past student govern­further commented that, "The Commissioners would be com­ment administrations by having all basis for implementing a new 
posed of the SBP, SBVP and six positions filled by students constitution is to create a more elected student representatives designated by a group of elected informal atmosphere around the from separate election districts representatives rather than em-workings of student government. 
People in student government take 
themselves too seriously, far out of 
proportion to what is necessary.
Tull concert on Tuesday; 
Nine guys sitting around drinking a case or two of beer can get just as much accomplished, if not more,
Tickets are still available 
than fifty people trying to get their two cents worth in on every issue. 
Social Commission concert Tom Rush concerts daily between As Uncandidate Cat has alwayschairman, Rich Donovan, 11: 15 am--12: 15 pm and 4-5 pm at counseled me. 'A bird in the paw is dispelled rumors yesterday that their third floor ticket window in worth two in the bush.' " Gray, ofthe Jethro Tull concert was LaFortune. The ACC offers tickets course. will become the officialalready sold out. between 9:00am-5:00pm daily at spokesman for the cat, who"The ticket office at the Student Gate 10. 
assumes the throne on May 11.
llnion still has tickets available for The Social Commission will The new constitution, will bethe Tull concert," Donavan stated. present Elton John in concert printed in the Observer in its en­lie Pxplained that for each concert Wednesday, May 3. The Cultural tirety on Wednesday, April 19, thethP tickets are equally divided Arts Commission has Tom Rush day before it is to be voted on bybetween the AC( and the Student appearing Friday, April 28. 
the student bodv.
\lnion. The mixt:p occured when 
tickets for the Tull concert at the 
i\C'C' went on sale at the end of 
spring break while the S.U. tickets 
were delayed because of lack of 
publicity. 
The Student Union offers ticket 
sales for Tull, Elton John, and 

ATTENTION ALL SOPHOMORES I 
Sophomores May Start Placing Ring Orders Starting April 17, 1972 
Hours: 1:30 -4:30 Monday thru Friday 
in office on second floor of ND Bookstore 
---------------------------------------------------·~ 
today and that airborne rein­forcement troops, who had earlier been lifted by helicopter to places near the town, had linked up with the defenders. The town no longer appeared on the verge of falling to the North Vietnamese. 
But it seemed that the situation all along Route 13, where an overland column has been trying for the past week to fight its way to the relief of Anloc, remained at least as dangerous as ever. 
Mines, bursts of machine gun fire, antitank rockets and many enemy troops were taking a huge toll along the road. Their special target appeared tbe the 21st in­fantry division. 
The entire division has been mired on the road between Laikhe and Anloc for the past week, making practically no progress up the road while taking losses. 
Sunday a munitions dump at the town of Laikhe along the road 25 miles north of Saigon exploded. It was not known how the explosion was caused, but Laikhe has been surrounded by hostile troops for several days. The town is the headquarters garrrison of the fifth division, which remains cut off at Anloc 30 miles further North. 
Making matters worse, in­telligence sources say, as many as !i,OOO fresh· North Vietnamese troops have been sighted moving toward the Anloc-Route 13 battle, where three enemy divisions already are fighting. The rein­forcements would bring enemy strength there to close to 30,000 troops. 
Enemy prisoners have told in­terrogators their goal is to clear Route 13 of South · Vietnamese opposition all the way to Saigon, an intelligence source said. 
Harrassing enemy fire throughout the country during the past three days has generally caused only light casualties and damage, but enemy gunners reportedly have had greater success in the Danang area. 
Reports reaching here said Communist projectiles in the past three days had damaged or destroyed 29 aircraft at Danang and the nearby facility at Marble Mountain. 
Nineteen observation and light transport planes were said to have been hit at Marble Mountain, and another 10 planes--including one F­4 phantom fighter bomber-­reportedly were hit at Danang. 
Despite the relative lack of movement by either side, military analysts here were agreed that the current showdown is far from over. Both sides appear to have ·committed all the fighting forces available for one last decisive network of battles. 
Sources said Sunday that Hanoi's 325th division, the only combat division that had been left in North Vietnam, had been sighted moving south from Hanoi and had already reached the province of Vinh. It seems to be headed for South Vietnam, the sources said. 
Wallace to speak Thursday 
Alabama Governor George C. Wallace will speak in South Bend Tuesday night. Wallace, running for the Democratic Party's presidential nomination, will speak at Morris Civ'ic Auditorium at 7:30. 
All delegates in the Notre Dame Mock Convention who are in­terested in working for Governor Wallace should call 1502. 



FRANKIE'S 
EVERYDAY DINNER 
•

SPECIALS 
-Ocean Perch $1.25 -1 0 oz. Rib-Eye Steak $1.50 -1f2 Breasted Chicken $1.50 
Includes Tureen Soup, Salad, Bread, Butter and Coffee Planning a Party? Frankie's has Special Rates for Student Parties! 
··one of the Year's Ten Best!" 
Engineering Aud. 
Aprill7&18 
8:00, 10:30 $1.00 
I 
,,_____________________________________________________J 


10 the observer Monday, April 17, 1972 
Gridders have long workout 
by Jim Donaldson 
Sports Editor Notre Dame's football team made up for lost time Saturday at Cartier Field by staging a three-hour, game-type scrimmage before a large crowd. 
dh ]d h b th. 
"This s ou ave een our 1r scrimmage, but we lost two days and a scrimmage last week," coach Ara Parseghian remarked after the lengthy workout. "We've got to begin to find out who our best players are. We've got a lot of people to work and this has been 
pitted the number one offensive 
our  best opportunity  to  evaluate  
them.  
Although  most  of  the  action  

and defensive units and alternates 
against their number two coun­
terparts, most of the players who
dressed saw some action. The first 
units did all the scoring, however. 
Quarterbacks Cliff Brown and Tom Clements directed the number one offense to four touch­downs and Ken Schlezes tallied six points for the first defense with a 24 yard runback of a Bill Nyrop pass, Brown was at the helm for three of t~e scores and even picked one up himself on a thr~e-yard run. He also threw a pair of touchdown passes, one to Andy Huff and the other Darryl Dewan. Huff scored 
twice in the workout, also reaching 
paydirt on a five-yard run with Clements calling the signals. 
But it was interceptions, rather than touchdowns, which dominated the afternoon's ac­tivity. The Irish defenders swiped nine passes, prompting Par­seghian to say, "The passing game was certainly a disappointment. 
The quarterbacks often did not use good judgement., 
Brown, Clements, Brian Doherty 
and Pat Steenberge each had two 
passes swiped and Nyrop was 
intercepted once. 
Sophomore Mike Townsend was the biggest threat to the quar­terback candidates, picking off three passes. Schlezes and Reggie Barnett, a freshman, each grabbed one. with the fleet Barnett 

Thin clads top Miami of 0. 
Notre Dame's varsity track team kept its perfect record in dual meet competition alive Saturday with a 91-72 victory over the l{edskins from Miami of Ohio. 
The Irish trackmen haven't been beaten in dual competition since their indoor season began on .January 29th, and Saturday's triumph over Miami was their second dual win of the outdoor campaign. 
The win did not come easily. Coach Alex Wilson's squad had to contl'nd both with the Miami runnPrs and with a muddy, par­tially submerged track, and the combination dropped the Irish into an early hole. But double-blue ribbon efforts by NO's Elio Polselli and Tom McMannon and a meet and field record by freshman Greg Cortina got the Irish rolling. 
Polselli earned first place honors in the hammer throw (123-8) and the discus (165-10), while McMannon won the 120-yard high hurdles <14.4) and the 440 in­terml'diate hurdles <54.5>. McMannon's brother, Mike, won 
.. the long jump and notched second in the 120 high hurdles and third in the high jump. 
Cortina's record came in the shot put, and he set the mark with a throw of 59-four and one-quarter. 
Overall. Notre Dame won ten of the Ill events. ND captured the 440 relay with a time of 43.2, and NO's other individual winners were Rich Vallicelli in the 100 ( 10.2), Gene Mercer in the 880 (1:55.8), and Hick Harris in the 220 (23.0l. 
Thl' Irish took the lead at the outset of the meet on Polselli 's hammer throw victory and a pair of runner-up finishes in the javelin­throw. But the Redskins rallied by sw!'eping the pole vault and the :lOOO-meter steeplechase. 
The Irish staged a rally of their own during the next five events by placing first and second in the shot, first in the 440 relay, second and third in the mile, first and third in the long jump. and first and second in the high hurdles. Once ND regained the lead. they never lost it. 
The next stop for Coach Wilson's squad will be the annual Ohio State rl'lays. which will be held next Wl'l'kend in Columbus, Ohio. 
scampering 30 yards after pilfering one of Clements' tosses. 
Linebackers accounted for the other four interceptions as Jim Musuraca, Greg Collins, Brian Clemente and Sherm Smith each came up with one 
. ;
Th~ offense d1dn t do much after rackmg up four early . scores. Brown_ and Dewan combmed for the. first touchd?wn . of the scr1mmage the third time the number ~ne. "0" had possession, Brown fhppmg ~ scr~en pass to ~ewan ~ho, us~ng h1s blockers n_1cel;y, p1cked his way down the 
sJdel_mes to complete a 29 yard scormg play. d f th d
Brown also passe or e secon 
touchdown of the d~y early m. the 
second qu_arter, rolling to the_ ng_ ht 
f k h d ff d f d 
a ter fa mg a an o an m mg
Huff open in the end zone. The play 
covered 18 yards. 
Huff added his second score a few minutes later, bursting up the middle from five yards out. Brown completed the offensive's scoring the next time the first unit had the ball. culm\nating a lengthy drive by hulling his way into the end zone on a fourth and goal situation from the three. 
Schlezes' interception return was the only scoring play the rest of the way. 
"I was very disappointed with the second half of the scrimmage," l'arseghian commented. "There wl're a lot of willing people out there. but we were not as well conditioned in the second half as we'd like to and should be." 
Bookstore b-ball event underway 
The first annual Bookstore Basketball Tournament, run as part of this weekend's An Tostal festivities. gets underway this aft£'rnoon with 26 games (of 21 baskets each l at four o'clock behind the bookstore. 
Forty-five teams campus teams are cnt£'red in the event, headed by the pre-tourney favorites, the "Black Magic" squad, comprised of varsity cagers, John Shumate and Willie and Mike Townsend, football player, Greg Hill and "Hock" regular, George Nelson. 

Fullback Andy Huff scored two touchdowns in Saturday's scrimmage, 

WublJ 
Scrpp~ire 
18k.}ewefrll 
ccr// us ••• 
:J)iamonJ !Import Companlf 
THE ULTIMATE IN DIAMONDS 
Seen by Appointment Suite 602 St. Joseph Bank Building South Bend, Indiana Phone 287-1427 

* ROUND TRIP JET *OPEN BAR AND MEALS 
Carrier Flt.# Route Dates Cost Admin.Chg. TOTAL CAl 525 NY,'I ON/NY Nlay 31-Aug 16 $170 $15 $185 UNIV 601 NY LON, NY June !-Sept 3 $205 $15 $220 UNIV 599 CI-ITC/I .ON. CI-HC june 8-i\ug 20 $220 $15 $235 llNlV 5Yl NY, I ON, NY June 13-Aug 6 $180 $15 $195 l.WI" 633 O~T,-'1 ON, JIET July 15-i\ug 19 $184 $15 $199 
TRAVEL SERVICES AVAILABLE: 
• 
Students International's 40-Poge European Trip Guide f Free 1 • Passport Appticoticns and Voccinorion Certificate forms 

• 
Cor and Motorcycle Rental, Leasing, and Purchase • lntro-Europe<ln Charter Flights and Transportation Schedules 

• 
Travelers' ln\urance: Air Fore, Medical, BaQgOC}(' " Euroil, Brotrail Pasws ... Hostel. Hotel Bookings 

• 
Travel library, Longuog~ Books, ond Mop> for Use or Purch<l~ 


For information and Administrative & Travel Services By: reservations contact: 
~TUDENTS INTERNATIONAL
To receive money abroad
Student Union Ticket Office b2l Church Street
quickly and safely, use 
Monday through Friday EE Ann Arbor, Michigan 48104 
(AMERICAN EXPRESS}
11:15-12:15 
4:00 -5:00 FOREIGN REMITTANCE SERVICE 
AMEX and Students International have created an EMERGENCY MONEY ABROAV KIT to help with your travels. rt•s free •••..•.•..•.•.. please write us. 
r•r •••t prLc• I• pro-rete •here of the total charter co•t, •ubf•ct to 1ncr•••• or decr•a•e dapandJn~ upon tot•J nu~b•r of part1cipents, as ~·r CAs requJatlons. 
Ooen onl~ to faculty, staff, students I J•••dLat• ta•1ll•• ot thl• unJver•Jtu, 
--------------------------------~~----~---------­
Monday, April 11, 1972 the observer 1 1 
ND drops pair to powerful Ohio 
by Stan llrankar 
Athens. Ohio--The threat of thunderstorms blanketed Trautwein Field, the home of the Ohio University Bobcats, from Friday morning till late Saturday night. With the luck of the Irish last weekend. only the heaviest of downpours would have been any salvation. 
Weather. umpires, and Bobcat power teamed up to sweep a pair of contests from Notre Dame. Doug Diamond. two homers. and a disputed home plate decision were the evildoers in a heartbreaking 4-0 loss Friday, while three more round-trippers and a dozen walks from Irish pitchers were all OU needed for a 13-2 Saturday af­ternoon triumph. 
Diamond, whose 1970 stats 
showed an ll-0 mark with an even 
1.00 ERA <8th best in the nation), had a narrow 2-0 lead over ND hurler Mike Riddell when the home plate controversy arose in the top of the sixth. With one out, captain Joe LaRocca lined a single to left field, then advanced to third on a pair of throwing errors. 
Bob Roemer lifted a high fly to right field that brought LaRocca home on a close play. After time was back in, Diamond threw to catcher Steve Swisher to appeal that the Irish first baseman missed home. Plate umpire Mike Malushnik agreed. and coach Jake Kline confronted the man-in-blue with some heated remarks. 
"I stepped over the plate, then dragged my back foot across," LaRocca argued. "The mark where I dragged it was still there when I came back to yell. (Bill) Lucas and Tommy Hansen both were right by the plate and saw it." 
"That really cost us," Coach Kline noted afterwards. "We score there, and it's 2-1. We'd have been right back in the game." 
Diamond pitched himself out of a jam in the first. Hansen doubled to the fence in left, and both Rob Reschen and LaRocca walked to 
·m Donaldson··.··....................·.········=·=·=·=·=·=························-·.....·.···········'"'";·.·;·.······
Jl ······~···~·~·~··············· .....····························-·-·.·-·-·-·-·-•.....•.·-·-·-·-·-·­

The Irish Eye 
::=========================;=;=;:::::;=;===============================:===================:::::::;Spring F oothai! 
What a difference a year makes. Last spring, Irish grid coach Ara Parseghian was primarily concerned with finding a replacement for his departing All-American quarterback, Joe Theismann. Offense was the big question mark, while the talents of the veteran-studded defense were taken for granted. 
This season. things are just the opposite. Although the quarter-back spot is still up for grabs, the offensive team has eight regulars back and appears fairly solid. The coaching staff has a more important task at hand. that of rebuilding the traditionally strong Irish defense which has been decimated by the loss of eight starters, including All-Americans Clarence Ellis, Walt Patulski and Mike Kadish. " 
"Our biggest job this spring is rebuilding the defense," Parseghian says. "We'll spend a great deal of time watching films and evaluating the personnel we have. Playing defense requires special skills. A good defender must be quick, strong and have the ability to be at the right place at the right time. It's our job to find the right people for the right oosition." · Although the Irish have had but seven days of spring drills and only two scrimmages. the coaching staff appears to have gotten a good start toward its desired goals. The number one defensive unit has been. un­scored upon in either scrimmage this spring. 
All three deep backs from last year's club have graduated but. after Saturday's workout, it appears that the Irish secondary may not be as vulnerable as some fans might have feared. Ken Schlezes, a letter-winner with four interceptions last season, showed that he still has the touch by swiping a Bill Nyrop pass and Mike Townsend had a great day, grabbing off three aerials. Terry Garner is currently the third member of the top secondary but frPshman Heggie Barnett, who also had an interception Saturday, looms as a threat to break into the group. 
Linebacker coach George Kelly must have been pleased by the fact that four of his charges, Jim Musuraca, Greg ~olli~s, Sherm S:nith. and Brian Clements. intercepted passes in Saturdays scnmmage. Insh lmebackers were unable to steal a single pass during the 1971 season. 
Gary Potempa. a junior, also looked sharp at one of the backer-up 
spots. getting in several good tackles. 
The Irish used a wingback in their offensive setup on almost every play Saturday. Commenting on the formation, Parseghian said, ··we've alwavs used a three-back approach and the wingback creates special defensive problems. We like to do a lot of experimenting in the spring. We've always been a multiple formation team and I expect we'll continue to be one." 
Even at this early date, soph Cliff Brown, who started the last six gamPs of the '71 campaign, and freshman Tom Clements ~~pear to be the leading candidates for the number one quarterback positJo~. Each had two passes intercepted Saturday but Brown made_up for his errors by throwing for a pair of touchdowns and Clements npped off a couple of good gains via his faking skill and quick feet. Clements' 28 yard scramble was the longest running play of the afternoon. 
There's a great battle shaping up between Willie Townse~d, sop? Robby Washington and freshman Pete Demmerl.e .for the s~artmg spht end position vacated by Tom Gatewood. Willie has fme moves, Washington appears to be the fastest of the three and Demmerle ha~ a great pair of hands. Too bad receiver coach Mike Stock couldn't combme 
..._._______
all three into one player. 
Offensive regulars Mik(' Creaney, John Cieszkowski and G~eg Hill sat 
out Saturday's workout with injuries. Creaney has a spramed knee, 
"Cisco", a thigh contusion, and Hill, a straine~ shoulder. . 
Fleet frosh halfback Eric Penick, a 9.5 sprmter, has yet to see actiOn 
this spring because of a pulled hamstring muscle. And, while injuries are 
being discussed, frosh guard St~ve Neece .was th~ onl:Y casua~ty Satur­
day. suffering an ankle injury wh1ch necessitated h1s bemg earned off the 
field on a stretcher. 
The Parker brothers, Larry and Mike, have officially been suspended from the football team for the 1972 season. 
Freshman Gerry DiNardo, brother of former Irish All-American guard Larry, was running with number one offense at a guard spot. 
The Irish once again appear to be well-stocked with quality running backs. Freshmen Ron Goodman and Wayne Bullock are good prospects but will have to work hard to get much playing time with the likes of Huff, Cieszkowski, Dewan, Diminick and Hill around. 
load the bases. The senior righthander bore down, though, getting Roemer on an infield out to Pnd the threat. 
Riddell made only two big mistakes in his duel with the OU star. but they were enovgh to cost him the win. Swisher led off the second with a 400-foot home run blast to left center, his sixth of the season. Scratch singles from Bob Kleiber, Tony Gray, and Dave Sparks accounted for another run in the fifth, and Kleiber's sixth inning two-run shot that barely cleared the fence on the right field line capped the Bobcat scoring. 
Diamond finished with a nifty four-hitter that featured 10 strikeouts and just three bases on balls. Riddell. who was tagged with the loss to even his record at 1­1, fanned a half dozen Bobcats in his six innings of duty. The sidewinding Lucas came on to pitch perfect ball in the last two stanzas. 
Saturday was an entirely dif­ferent story, with the defending Mid-American Conference champions jumping on starter Jim Noe for six runs in two innings. Noe. whose record fell to 2-1, walked five batters, gave up five hits. and was touched for three home runs. Senior centerfielder Jim Anderson rapped a pair of two­run homers, while Swisher let loose with a 460' wallop that made Friday's circuit clout look like a pop-up. 
Hard-throwing Ed Hrabcsak came on to relieve Noe, and was let down in the field, as three of the four runs he allowed were unearned. The junior right-hander walked only two while 'llllowing three hits in four innings pitched, along with retiring the last seven men he faced. 
Mark Schmitz was the last Irish hurler and the frosh righty ex­perienced control trouble in his second outing of the season. Sch­mitzwalkedfour and gave up three hits and four runs in the final two innings, but he also came through with the sole ND offensive highlight of the series. 
Howard Wood led off the ninth with a single off reliever Scott Hobinson, who doubles as a member of the Bobcat football squad. Roemer and Ken Schuster both walked to load the sacks, but Tony Iarocci hit a shot right to Hobinson that the pitcher was able to convert into a home to first double play. Schmitz followed though, and lashed a single to left that brought home the only ND tallies of the series. 
Crew team drops two 
The Notre Dame crew team journeyed to Detroit for a weekend encounter with Wavne State tTniversity and came u·p empty in two races. as illness plagued the heavy weight entry. 
The freshmen turned in a very Pncouraging performance, however, posting the best time among the three Irish boats en­!Pred in the meet. The frosh boat, It'd by strokeman Frank Loughery, rowed an even race for most of the distance against a boatful of left­lovers from the Wayne State \'arsity and jayvees, before sub­cumbing to a strong Wayne State finish. Others in the frosh boat included Steve Waymel, Pat Kepgan. Dan Flatley, Fred IIPvdrich. John Hutton, Tom Brett, and bowman Mike Younger. 
In the other race. Notre Dame turned its lightweight and heavy weight entries against the Wayne State heavies. Forced to make last­minute lineup changes after their strokeman was forced out of ac­tion. the Irish heavyweights placed third. though they did jump to an early lead. The Irish lightweights placed second. behind the \\layne State squad. 
This Saturday, the Notre Dame oarsmen travel to Springfield, Ill.,· to face eight other squads in the Springfield Invitational. 

11'ish catcher Bob Roemer scored one of Notre Dame's two runs in a 
Jlair of weekend losses to Ohio U. 
Iarocci got a pair of singles in the getting bad umpiring everywhere. closing game, and almost brought 
We have to bounce back for 
home a run in the second. Roemer Valparaiso and Miami this week." and Schuster both singled with two outs, and the freshman shortstop Notre Dame has dropped three
. 
followed with an opposite field shot ma row now. and are under .500 for 
. 
to right. but rightfielder Steve Bihl the first time this season with a 6-7 picked it up and fired to the plate in mark. The Irish travel to Valpo for time to nail Roemer. a single game Tuesday afternoon, "It was a disappointing series," then J."eturn to Cartier Field and a Coach Kline commented. "The big three-game weekend series 
umpires were bad. We've been with Miami of Ohio. 
------~----------------~ 







OBSERVER 
SPORTS 
Pagl's to and II 
Golf team 11th at OSU 
by Tom McKenney 
The Notre Dame golf team staged a second round comeback and salvaged eleventh place over the weekend in the Ohio State Invitational Golf Tournament at Columbus. Disastrous first round putting kept the Irish from finishing any higher in the nineteen !Pam field. 
The youthful Irish squad, con­sisting of juniors Mike LaFrance, Chuck Voelker. Marty Best, Gary Quinn and freshmen Mike Kistner and Jeff Burda found the putting surfaces on the OSU home course difficult. the consequences of a hard winter in Columb\JI!t'. As a result. the Irish squad collected forty-eight three putt greens in the first round. 
Fr. Clarence Durbin, coach, commented that he thought the greens were a factor but was quick to add. ··we are not alibiing though. All of the teams in the tournam!'nt had to play the same greens." 
The problem of the greens was particularly critical in Notre Dame's case because the Irish were hitting the ball exceptionally well from the tees to the gr,eens on the iOOO yard plus OSU course. 
After the initial round's poor putting efforts Fr. Durbin had a greens session with the team for the purpose of adjusting the put­ting strokes to accommodate the Buckeye greens. The adjustment paid off in Saturday's round when the Irish reduced their previous day's score a total of fiftee:I strokes by cutting down the number of three putt greens. 
Fr. Durbin was very pleased with his teams performance and in particular with their second round comeback. The 15 stroke im­provement brought praise from several of the other coaches as well. who took notice of Notre Dame's refined second round play. 
The Irish finished with a team total of 1185 for the 54 holes. Marty Best had the lowest eighteen hole score for the Irish with an even par i2 in the first round. Best also had the lowest tournament total for the Irish with 232. 
This Friday the Irish go to Ann Arbor for an eight team tour­
-
nament Saturday at the University of Michigan. Immediately following that tournament, the Irish will leave for Oxford, Ohio and the sixteen team Mid­American Conference tournament to be held next Monday. 
Monday, April 17, 1972
the observer
12 
Raids worth little immediate tactical value 

These objectives are the same 
Officials interviewed here saidby Craig R. Whitney ones that former president Lyndon today that the decision to launch(c) 1!172 New York Times B. Johnson adduced for the the bombing raids againstSaigon, April 16--High-ranking systematic bombing of North Haiphong, the principal NorthAmerican officials said today that Vietnam that his administration Vietnamese port, had been madeSunday's B-52 bombing raids 
against the port city of ltaiphong began in the mid-1960's and at a higher level in Washington, not had little to do with the immediate stopped in November, 1968. here, although the military has had tactical situation on the bat-"All those shells and artillery contingency plans to resume the tlefields in South Vietnam. and tanks the North Vietnamese bombing since its suspension four 
Instead, the officals implied, the are using in South Vietnam, some years ago. bombing was intended to lay down ship must have brought them in to The decision to go ahead on such a direct and dramatic challenge to Haiphong," one intelligence source a dramatic and massive scale the North Vietnamese and to said. "Haiphong is the only port of appears to mdicate a more serious 
ersuade the Soviet Union to stop entry for those supplies, most of American concern about South
P which come from the Soviet Vietnamese ability to withstand asupplying them with war materiel. Union." 
long, drawn-out offensive than they have expressed publicly up to 
now. Intelligence sources here have emphasized that they expect the 

March against W"ar 
current Communist drive to go on "for at least another month and 
slated for Saturday 
Chicago Peace Action Coalition is
by Sue Prt'ndergast perhaps even longer.
providing bus transportation at a 
At the same time," one of theseround trip cost of $40.
Massive antiwar demonstrations intelligence officials said in an
Local antiwar rallies were held
planned for Saturday, April 22 in 16 interview today, the tank and
last Saturday in New Haven,
countries will demand immediate, artillery regiments that have been 
Denver, Chicago, Los Angeles,
total, and unconditional with­pressing vigorous attacks against
Philadelphia, and other cities to
drawal of all U. S. forces from Quantri, Kontum, and Binhlong
build youth participation in next
South Vietnam. provinces in South Vietnam since
week's rallies.
Over 50,000 students are ex­the beginning of the month were
Demonstrations on April 22 in
pected to rally in New York and organized in North Vietnam and
Sweden, Belgium, Great Britain,
Los Angeles for marches planned sent South months ago, and a
Lebanon, West Germany,
by the Student Mobilization sudden shutoff of the supply
Australia, Canada, Switzerland,
Committee to End the War in pipeline in Hanoi would not affect
Italy, and elsewhere may make
South-East Asia and the National the North Vietnamese offensive in
this the largest antiwar action ever
Peace Action Coalition. the far South near Saigon for
held on a world-wide scale.
Speakers for the New York rally several months at least. 
include Mike Gravel, Senator from Alaska: Congresswoman Bella Abzug: sportscaster Jim Bouton; 
If there's one time 
ex-Congresswoman Jeanette 
you need a friend...
Hankin: and actor Ossie Davis. The "peaceful demonstrations" 
... it's when you seek employment. That's ou1· will climax a program of teach-ins, 
business. When you are seeking empl_vyment or a educational conferences and 
step-up from your present job, visit us. You'll speaking tours sponsored by the 
bt•come involvl'd with people who understand yom· antiwar movement "to dispel the 
prohlt•m. Andean do something about it. That's widespread illusion that the war is 
tlw IH'Y· Do H<J!lll'lhing about it. Look us up in tlw White i'ag·t'>'. Now. \\'p"re eertain you'll
drawing to a close." 
mak!" a friend. Anrl ,o will we. ·
The recent resumption of bombing in North Vietnam may inerease student participation in the rallies, Chicago area SMC co­ordinator Steve Clark said. "This is the way to show our disapproval 

World's Largest Prolenional Employment Service
of Nixon's lies that the war is winding down." At least 500 Chicago-area 
students plan to attend the New ... York rally, Clark sa id~_:·__:T:._:h~e:_~=============================-===========~ 




JETHROTULL TOMORROW NIGHT 
8 PM at the ACC Some good se·ats still available at the ACC Ticket Office from 9-5 f$5.50, 4.50, 2.75) 
Don't miss this chance to see the Number One
-
group in England!! Hear them play their new album: "Thick As a Brick" Presented by the Student Union Social Commission 
"The North Vietnamese appear to be using materiel that was delivered in Haiphong some time ago," one officer said. "It has nothing to do with recent arrivals of supplies in Haiphong." 
American officials in Saigon have also been stressing the point, in private interviews over the last few days, that the supplying of tanks, artillery and ammunition to the North Vietnamese by the Soviet Union is the primary justification for the recent escalation, culminating in today's raids on Haiphong. 
"You wouldn't have brought in a eouple of extra aircraft carriers and swarms of B-52's if it had not been for Soviet armor and artillery being used in this campaign," one officer said. 
The North, Vietnamese have used Soviet-made T-54 heavy tanks both in Quangtri and Binhlong provinces and have used Soviet­surface to air SAM-2 missiles and long-range 130-millimeter artillery to defend their attacking forces on the Quangtri front. The artillery was also used at the turn of the year in the North Vietnamese assaults on Longtieng in Northern Laos. 
Underscoring the important political-military and strategic aspects of the current American involvement in the war, Henry Kissinger's deputy, Maj. Gen. Alexander M. Haig Jr., was in Saigon today and conferred with Ambassador Ellsworth Bunker and Gen. Creighton W. Abrams on American strategy. Haig is President Nixon's Deputy Assistant for National Security Affairs. The senior American military commander in the Pacific, Adm. JohnS. McCain Jr., is on his way to Saigon now. 
The U.S. command has clamped a tight lid of secrecy on the details of the B-52 and fighter-bomber raids over Hanoi in the early morning hours of Sunday. All that is known is that U.S. Air Force and Navy fighter bombers and B-52's hit such tagets as fuel dumps, warehouses, truck parks, and ''other activities" in the vicinity of Haiphong, and that all the B-52's returned safely. 
Radio Hanoi has asserted that the North Vietnamese capital of Hanoi, 60 miles west of Haiphong, was hit at 9:30 a.m. Sunday morning by more bombers. 



