
enne 

' 
i 
I 
I 1­
On The Inside 
State conventions: bucolic plague ..• pages · 8 & 9 A convention for beer cans? ... page 14 
Vol. VII No. 21 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Friday, October 6, 1972 

On campaign trail for McGovern 
by Jerry Lutkus 
Ann Therese Darin 
and John Abowd 
Senator Edward 1Kennedy blasted the "corruption" of the Nixon Administration today in a speech before a standing room crowd in Stepan Center. 
''They say it was just a matter of coin­cidence that those men were out there bugging the conversations of LarryO'Brien and the Democratic Party. It was also just coincidental that those people hap­pened to be on the payroll of the Com­mittee to re-elect President Nixon," Ken­nedy asserted. 
He struck out against Nixon's ''corrup­tion" in the I'M' affair, the dairy industry, in the wheat deals with Russia. ''They call it coincidence, I call it corruption," claimed Kennedy. 
Speaking before a throng estimated at 4000, Kennedy attacked Nixon's policy on the Vietnam war. 
"Next week, we celebrate an anniver­sary on October 9," Kennedy claimed. He pointed out that it was four years ago on that date that Nixon claimed that any man who caJlllot bring peace in four years 
should not be given another chance. Kennedy added, "I'm glad that find something that I agree on witPresident."  I h  can the  
War Casualties  

The war goes on, according to Kennedy and he pointed out that since 1969 "22,000 brave sons have lost their lives" and America has spent 70 billions of dollars on the war. 
The !:e!"'.!cr senator from Massachusetts pointed that this money "ought to have been expended in the cities of this coun­try" on the problems of the elderly, of crime, health, and law enforcement. 
''How infrequently we think of the dev­astation of this war. There are one mil­lion orphans in Vietnam," Kennedy con­tinued. He termed this devastation a "price no society should have to pay." 
Kermedy pointed to the war as the key issue in this year's Presidential election. He reaffirmed his belief in George Mc­Govern and said that he could end the war and bring home the prisoners of war. 
''We know the prisoners won't be re­leased as long as we stay in Vietnam." 
Welfare Plans 
The economic question prompted Ken­nedy to note that despite Executive pro-After asking the crowd if Notre Dame 


was going to beat Michigan State tomor­
row he related that he heard the students 
elected a King for president. He added 
that ''The Republicans seem to think that 
they did the same thing." 
Kennedy's speech was introduced by 
Congressman John Brademas, Democratic 
Representative of Indiana's third district. 
Making the rounds with Kennedy and Brad­
meas was Matthew Welsh, the Democratic 
candidate for Governor of Indiana. 
TV appearance taped 
Before his speech at StepanCenter, Ken­
nedy and Brademastapeda question-answer 
forum with several Notre Dame law stu­
dents and undergraduates. 
Talk centered on Domestic Legislation. 
Kennedy and Brademas emphasized the fu­
tility of pushing legislation on the aged, 
health care and education. 
As chairman of the senate subcommittee 
6n health, the Massachusetts Senator de­
plored present condition hampering medi­
cal school intents. 
Medical care 
"Medical schoolshaveturneddownappli­
cations from many thousands of well-quali­
fled medical school applicants because 
of lack of space," he said. "However, 
over 55% of all interns now working in 
hospitals are foreign born and foreign­
trained. Thissimplycannot continue tobe.'' 
Both the senator and the congressman deplored the Nixon administration for fail­ing to endorse social legislation -bills to cure sickle cell anemia, multiple scleu­rosis and other fatal diseases. 
Economic and unemployment 
Several students questioned the team on economic conditions. Kennedy commented that despite Nixon "propaganda," there is more unemployment in America today than in the last 16 years of government under ~Isenhower, Kennedy, and Johnson. ''This i~ the highest peacetime unemployment in the peacetime since WorldWar II,"charged Kennedy. 
Queried on amendments to the natiooal s;tudent defense loans which would stop students from reducing the amount of money they must repay the government, Brademas replied that this amendment wouldprobably not pass. Many N.D. & S.M.C. students attend school on government loans. 
''The president and his administration have the time to talk to lobbyists for ITr, for the AMA, the dairy industry for countless other special interest groups," 

resses 
an crow 



emas, and Senator Kennedy. In addition, 
13 Democratic party leaders from South 
Bend, Elkhart, and surrounding cities sat 
at• the head table. 

Kermedy called the Nixon administration 
& ''government of narrow self interest" 
as he asked the crowd to hold Nixon to 
his promise that he would bring peace 
to Vietnam in four years. 

"I don't think we ought togive himanother 
chance," Kennedy said. 

Praised Brademas and Welsh 
Praising Brademas' record on educa­tion and senior citizenship, Kennedy said, ''John Brademas doesn't need words of endorsement. You know him and I know you will send him back to Congress where we need him." 
'Legislation passed by tne Congress requires the cooperation of statehousesand state legislatures to operate effectively. We need people with the sane philosophy and outlook on life from the President on down,'' Kennedysaidin endorsing Welsh. 
Defends McGovern 
In calling for support for George Mc­
Senator Edward Kennedy addresses a fund raising breakfast at the Indiana Club in South -Bend. The 7:30 breakfast was attended by 800 democratic sympathizers. 
Kennedy said, "But they don't have time to Govern, Kennedy said ''we have a choice 
testations against the Democratic welfare talk to the Senate and the House or ask us of whether the special influences will con­plan, in the last 3 1/2 years over 6 1/2 for our opinions.'' tinue to dominate and control this admin­million people have been added to welfare istration or whether we will, as George 
rolls. Fund Raising Breakfast McGovern says, "Return the government 
Nixon's welfare plm of four years ago Earlier today Kennedyaddressedastand-to the people.'' was supported by the Democrats according lng room crowd at the Indiana Club in The Senator challenged the Nixon ad­to Kennedy, but wben it came to~-South Bend. Over 800 democratic sym­ministration's crime record, saying "The the Republlcana ref..ed to "ltand up for pathizers contributed $25 to hear the Sen­'American people have more to fear from it.'• ator praise the democratic slate in In-crime and violence in the streets than 
The Republicans "don't raise theirvoices diana. from peasants running around in pajmas about the loopholes in the tax code, but The featured speakers at the breakfast and being bombed to death everyday.'' when It comes to giving a blood test to included gubernatorial candidate Matthew Kennedy also defended McGovern's tax a poor person, they're all for it.'' Welsh, incumbem congressman John Brad-reform proposals charging that ·'not one'· 
Republican in the Senate voted in favor 
of the tax reform amendment offered by 
the Democrats during the last week. 
''The tax code in this country is the greatest welfare code of all," Kennedy claimed, adding that the codeitselfcontains over 900 pages of ''exemptions, excep­tions and loopholes. '' 
Charges Nixon 
The youngest Kennedy also charged the Nixon administration of acting under the pressure of special interests in the ITI case and the authorization of a milk price increase after the milk producers made "substantial contributions to the Nixon campaign fund.'' 
Kennedy said, in conclusion, ''We must again in 1972 try to be a source of leader­ship and direction ... really concerned about all the people. '' 
Brademas introduced Kennedy and Welsh 
to the early morning group. · 
Welsh called ''the central issue'' of his 
campaign for the statehouse ''the ineffec· 
tiveness" of the Republican administra­
tion. 

Long Day 
Kennedy arrived in Elkhart last night 
at 10:00. He spent the night in the Albert 
Pick Motor Inn in downtown South Bend. 
The Senator left South Bend immediately after his Stepan Center speech. After a brief speech at the Elkhart airport, he was scheduled to fly to Fort Wayne, In­diana. Kermedy will campaign in Muncie and Indianapolis later today. 
The Kermedy-Brademas show will be broadcast this evening on WNDU (<llannel 
16) at 7:30 p.m. and WSBT (Olannel 22) J at 10:30 p.m. _ 
j 
I I 
J 
I j I 
~ 
4 
I I 
j I j j 
I I I I 
l 

.............--------------------------------------------­
Friday, October 6, 1972
the observer
2 
warld briefs 
(c) 1972 New York Times · 
Cleveland-sen. McGovern proposed what he called a new foreign policy based on international idealism and domestic strength. Describing his policy as a "new internationalism," he P:Oposed for­mal recognition of Peking, promised to stop deploymg nuclear missiles and warned that the Vietnam war would "drag on for years" if President Nixon is re-elected. 
Washington-After weeks of silence, President Nixon used his first press conference since August 19 to dismiss Democ_ratic _charges ~at his administration is the most corrupt and deceitful m American history. "I think responsible members of the Democratic party will be turned off by this kind of campaigning," said the President, who covered a wide range of political and domestic issues. 
Dt"nver-Sargent Shriver lent his personal support to the Colorado Labor Council in its defiance of the political neutrality ordered by George Meany, President of the AFL-CIO. Deafening roars of ap­proval greeted the Democratic Vice-Presidential candidate when he appeared before a council meeting in Denver and told the delegates that in 40 years labor "has never remained neutral." 
Washington-President Nixon called the recent federal in­vestigation of the Watergate incident so thorough it made his own 1948 probe of Alger Hiss look like ."a Sun~ay school . exercise." But government claims that there Is no evidence agamst anyone not already indicted in the bugging case were challenged by the govern­ment's chief witness. 
••• c.ampu• today 
3:00 .. lecture, max black, library auditorium 7 & 10 .. movie, guns of navarone, lyons hall, 75 cents 7 & 10 --movie, andromeda strain, zagran's zinema west, flanner 
hall, $1.00 7, 9 & 11 .. movie, big jake, knights of columbus hall, $1.00 
8: 00 .. dance, 2 bands, Iafortune baII room 8:30--play, the lion in winter, o'laughlin auditorium, smc 9:00--concert, people and song, alumni hall lounge, 25 cents 
saturday 
7, 9, & 11 p.m.--movie, i love you, alice b. toklas, holy cross hall, 75 
cents 

7, 9 & 11 --movie, big jake, knights of columbus hall, $1.00 
7 & 10 --movie, guns of navarone, lyons hall, 75 cents 
7 & 10 --movie, andromeda strain, zagran's zinema west, flanner hall, $1.00 
8:00 -moYie, the servant, engineeting auditorium, $1.00 8:00--play, the lion in winter, o'laughlin auditorium, smc 
12:00 midnight--liturgy, fr. toohey, howard hall 
sunday 

7:00p.m.-· movie, les belles de nuit, carroll hall, smc 
8:00 --movie, the servant, engineering auditorium, $1.00 
Campus RoWtdup 
Pullapilly to speak on Marxism 
Dr. Cyriac K. Pullapilly, to power. resume. The mass is open to More than half of this year's Associate Professor of History at Dr. Pullapilly, a native of India, personnel and students with enrollment, 55 per cent, received Saint Mary's College, Notre Dame, had been involved in Indian confessions during mass. Mass is an undergraduate degree in will address a gathering of politics as the co-founder of In­scheduled to end at 12:30. business or economics. Another 29 scholars at the Asian Studies dependent Students' . per cent majored in arts or Conference on October 5-7, 1972, to Organizations, and as the founding ·humanities, while 16 per cent
MBA stats released
be held on the campus of the State editor of vidyalok, a journal for received engineering degrees. 
University of New York at Brock­students. His publications of four 
One hundred undergraduate 
{ 

The Observer is published daily during the college semester ex­cept vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester (14 per year) from The Observer. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 
books and scores of articles in­
port. colleges or universities around the NOTRE DAME-ST. MARYS THEATRE
cludes a book on Marxist ideology 
Dr. Pullapilly's theme will be world are represented in the I
and tactics, and articles anrl
"Marxist Ideology in Kerala current graduate program in the presents
editorials on Communist activities 
Politics", in which he will discuss College of Business Administration I ;
in India.
the political philosophies of two at the University of Notre Dame. 
Dr. Pullapilly holds a Ph.D. from 
segments of the Communist Party A total of 166 students in the MBA 
of India, and the practical ap­the University of Chicago. He has program this year, compared to plications of these ideologies and been a member of Saint Mary's 156 last year, come from 27 states their results. His particular focus College faculty since 1970. and 18 foreign countries. will be on the developments in the Thirty-four per cent of the
·Crypt Mass
South Indian state of Kerals, which students are married, a drop from 
THE LION IN WINTER 
James Goldman's witty, intelligent comedy. O'Laughlin Auditorium St. Mary's Campus October6, 7, 12, 13, 14at8:30p.m. 
Students $1.50 Phone Reservations 284-4176
gained world attention in 1957 as last year's 43 per cent, and there 
(Season subscriptions still available -5 plays $6.50)
the first political unit in the world Beginning Oct. 2, Sunday, the are five women enrolled, an in­to elect a Communist government 12:10 daily mass in the Crypt will crease over last year's three. 
The Student Union Social Commission Makes You One Last Offer 
.• 
{which you can't refuse!) for 
A Prohibition Homec·oming Dance 
Friday, Oct. 13, at 8:30 -12:0 12:30 p.m. Stephan Center a'la 1920's. Complete with sandwiches and refreshments, 20 piece Dixieland band, old-time cars and everything 
else from that good old era. 
HURRY! Last chance to buy bids for only $6.00 per couple, will be Friday at 1-5:00 p.m. in the Social Commission Office. 
Bring your white suits wide brimmed hats and violin cases for a RIOTOUS Evening! 

\ I 
I 
(THE OBSERVER) J j 
Nixon takes Notre Dame, Election Warm-up 


St. Mary's student vote 
Page 3

Friday, October 6, 1972 
by John Abowd llllllllllllllllllllllHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIU Editor-in-Chief 
President Richard Nixon holds a 13 percentage point lead over George McGovern among the students at Notre Dame 
Poll results 
and St. Mary's~ according to a scientific poll conducted for Tht-Obst>rver by Omnicron Delta Epsilon, the economics honors fraternity. Question Notrl' Dame St. Mary's Total 
Larry Velcheck, vice-president of the club, supervised the execution of the survey. Are you registered to vote? 170 students from a random sample of 200 were interviewed Yes 89.4 90.0 89.55 
at Notre Dame. Ten students were eliminated from the No 10.6 10.0 10.45 sample because they were citizens of a foreign country. Over half of the ND interviews were conducted in person. If not, do you intend to register? 
All 50 students in the St. Mary's sample were interviewed Yes 44.4 0.0 :34.78 by telephone. No 55.6 100.0 65.22 
The club designed the survey and made the random sampling after consultation with members of the economics Are you voting? faculty. Yes 92.4 90.0 91.81 
Other results No 6.5 10.0 7.27 Undecided 1.2 0.0 0.91 The overwhelming majority of students on both campuses have registered t·'"~ vote--89.55 percent in all. About the same Where are you voting? percentage <91.81) reported that they intended to vote. Home State 81.8 76.0 80.45 j 
Indiana 18.2 24.0 19.55 
I
Although there was an extensive voter registration drive .I on campus, the poll indicates that 80.45 percent of the What is your party preference? J students intend to vote in their home states. However, a Democrat 43.5 36.0 41.81 I significant percentage (19.55) do intend to vote in Indiana. If Republican 25.3 32.0 26.82 
l
90 percent of these voters cast their ballots in this state, the A. I. 00.00 0.0 0.0 local student vote would be over 1500 at ND-SMC. Independent 30.6 30.0 30.45 
Only 7.27 percent of the students indicated that they would Others 0.6 2.0 .91 not vote. This percentage is well below the national poll in­dications that between 30 and 40 percent of the population will If the election were held tomorrow, who not vote. The Observer poll, however, does not contain an would you vote for? automatic correction factor for non-voters because the McGovern 41.2 21.3 36.87 necessary trend data is not available for students. Nixon 45.8 63.8 49.77 
Schmitz 0.0 0.0 0.00 Future Polls Other 1.8 0.0 1.38 Undecided 11.2 14.9 ]1.98 
All the interviews for this poll were conducted on Tuesday and Wednesday of the past week. The next Observer survey Sample size 200 50 250 will be published on Oct. 20. The economics fraternity will Completed interviews 170 50 220 conduct the interviews between Oct. 16 and Oct. 19. Eliminated from sample 10 0 10 
In addition to presidential preference the next survey will include several questions on key campaign issues. 
IIIIIIUIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII I IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIINHIIIIHIIHII 

Chicagoproves precarious McGovern territory 
by Christopher Lydon the re-election of State's Attorney vives and flourishes in some Chicago's 50 wards (notably ex­Election Day that the 8.500 votes Edward V. Hanrahan, under in­corners of a city that was not cluding Mayor Daley's own 11th by which John F. Kennedy won the
<c) 1972 New York Times 
dictment for conspiring to obstruct supposed to have grass roots. ward). There will almost certainly crucial state of Illinois in 1960, and justice in the fatal raid on Black There are already active be more McGovern volunteers if the result is close they couldChicago -For the McGovern Panther headquarters three years McGovern headquarters in 44 of ,canvassing in Chicago before make the difference.campaign's star organizer, ago -there was little left to bargain
Chicago has been a humbling about. 
experience, but then Gene Pokorny 
McGovern's straight-ticket
always thrived on the humble work endorsement, re-enforcing a of grass roots campaigning 
persisten Cook County tradition of The 26 year old Nebraskan won single-lever party voting, sub­
his reputation in orchestrating stantially unified the interests of Sen. George McGovern's crucial the national and local campaign
Wisconsin primary victory last organizations, yet Mayor Daley'sspring. But he has started machine retain all the marginalorganizing a year and a half ahead advantages.of time in a relative vacuum -in a state, that is, where patronage jobs and political machines were practically outlawed by the Restrictive rules on voterProgressives early in the century 
registration, for example, providing only a single day for in­precinct enrollment on Oct. 10, served the machines interest in a controlled vote better than
In a tightly organized Chicago, 
McGovern's hope of massive newby contrast, McGovern doorbell­registrations.
ringers are often seen as 
Most observers also believe that presumptuous intruders on Mayor 
j
Hanrahan will get more help fromRichard J. Daley's Democratic the straight-ticket black votersmonopolv. "What do you mean whom the Democratic Presidential you're interested in my vote," 
nominee attracts to the polls thatMcGovern volunteers have been McGovern will get from hostiletold. "You're not my precinct precinct captains in the city'scaptain." 
ethnic wards. t
McGovern strategists once 
Most Of the Daley organization's fancied that if 'Daley would not 
ward committeemen continue to I
help them, they would out­organized him with their own ignore the local McGovern I 
people. storefront offices. And a few of the ward committeemen, including
When Pokorny arrived in July to 
Alderman Edward R. Vrdoly<'lk,oversee the Illinois campaign, he 
j
are actually leading their precinct spoke somewhat more modestly of 
j
captains in teaching supportersusing his own precinct workers to how to cut McGovern out of the
build "bargaining power" with the regular Democrats who were still straight Democratic vote on 
Election Day.
seething about their ejection from the Miami Beach nominating convention. 

I
But once McGovern agreed in 
Under the circumstances, the Gene Pokorny, the 26-year-old Nebraskan who is 
I
mid-August to back the entire 
remarkable point about the Sen McGovern's campaign manager in Chicago. 
I
Democratic ticket in Cook County ­
McGovern campaign here is that He is finding that the Daley machine is really in j
appealing, among other things, for 
Pokorny's organi~ing spirit sur-charge (New York Times photo). j 
j 
j 
l 

4 
the observer Friday, October 6, 1972 
, 
1974 tax reforms could hike tuitions
? 
' 
' 
by Patti Shea 
Observer Staff Reporter 
Notre Dame students could find their 1974 tuition raised by over $400 if certain tax reform laws are approved by Congress this year. 
Repeal of tax law providing for deduction of charitable con­tributions over a three-year period beginning in 1974 is one of the 
provisions the Mills-Mansfield Bill instigated by Wilbur Mills, chairman of the House Ways and l\1eans Committee. The bill is scheduled to be presen~ed during 
Faculty letters of last year reviewed 
., by Bill McGinn 
On March 15th of last year 31 faculty members published a startling letter which declared that Notre Dame was "moving into a period of decline." The signers suggested that this decline had come about with the formation of the Office of Provost. "Rule has succumbed government, that office has turned former democratic practices to its ser­vice," proclaimed the disen­chanted faculty. "The loss of democratic self-government was claimed to "change Notre Dame into a University flawed in prin­ciples, hectic and demoralized in its spirit, and retrogressive in its academic quality." 
Shortly later a rebuttal letter was published in The Observer signed by another 31 faculty members. This letter stated that they saw no decline and "no deteriorating future for Notre Dame.'' They also disclaimed any loss of quality, cordiality and mutual respect" among the faculty because of Administrative changes. 
Since the publication of these letters most of the signers have seen no real changes at Notre Dame. Professor Walter Langford of the Modern Language Dept. declared that "not too much has changed," since he signed the first letter. He realizes that certain decisions are forced upon the Administration by the economic problems of the moment. Nevertheless he was still the 93rd Congress. 
The bill would greatly decrease contributions from Notre Dame alumni according to John Murphy, vice-oresident of· Public · Relations and Development at Notre Dame. The University, which received $2,502,381 from alumni in 1970-71 ranks eighth among the nation's colleges and universities in the amount of alumni gifts to its annual fund according to a report made by the Council for Financial Aid to Education. 
Currently, Murphy estimates that Notre Dame receives about $2 million annually from alumni. Although the University budget figures reach $55 million, Murphy 
somewhat disturbed by the ten­dency towards less democratic procedure in academic areas. 
English professor Ernest San­deen also thought that there were few real changes. He did however notice that there was some amelioration, that the Ad­ministration expressed "greater willingness to discuss matters before edicts are issued." 
Other faculty signers of the first letter believe that the upcoming meeting of the Academic Council will be a barometer of change. If it should happen that the revised Faculty Manuel is given less than full attention, Chairman of the Government Dept., George Brinkley, feels that this would indicate "things are going downhill." Thomas Swartz, professor of economics, declared that, "the passage of the Faculty Manuel with the new recom-. mendations is essential if the University is to stay in the mainstream of academics." Robert Weber, the director of the American Studies Progr~m, thought that the passage of the revised Faculty Manuel by the Academic Council would "suggest some progress." 
The majority of those faculty members who signed the rebuttal letter stand firm in their con­victions. Fr. Raymond Cour of the Government Dept. stated that if the same letter were circulated 
. today, "I would sign it again." Indicating that there was nothing to lead him to sign the first letter, Professor Walter Nicgorski of 
Friday October 6 Saturday October 7 7:00, 9:00 and 11 :00 
at the 

Knights of Columbus' 
NOTRE DAME COUNCIL NO. 1477 


DONATION $1.00 MEMBERS FREE 
explained that "we would be in trouble if that much were taken out." 
The loss would have to be made up somewhere and might result in a hike of tuition fees according to Murphy. 
In a recent letter to the Board of Trustees, Father Hesburgh ex­pressed concern over the proposed change. He cited that "tax benefits or advantages are not the primary motivation for giving, particularly to Notre Dame, but they certainly are an i.lnportant consideration. 
The charitable contribution tax deduction serves as an incentive to individuals and corporations to give to charitable causes. "The 
General Program said that, should the first letter appear again, he "would still be willing to sign the second letter." Professor Philip Gleason of the History department declared that he has not changed his mind over signing the second letter. "I stand by every word of it," he proclaimed. "Professor 
Robert Burns stated that the 31 signers of the second letter were probably reacting to 31 different interpretations of the original letter. He said that he signed the second letter because he felt that some of the statements in original letter (i.e. that University was moving away from democracy) were untrue. Professor Burns thought that things were "far more open today" 

BICYCLE SALE 

Savings up to 15% 
BICYCLE CENTER 
OPEN MONDAY 'TIL 8:30 PM Daily 9:30 'til 5:30 Phone 287-1623 1437 Portage Ave. 

deduction was not made by ac­cident," Murphy stressed, "but rather by design to help the causes of philanthropy. No matter how much an alumnus gives, it costs him something." 
Both Hesburgh and Murphy pointed out that SUMMA, the five­year capital fund raising program which brought in 62 million would not have been nearly as successful if there had not been a tax deduction for the contributions. 
So far, formal action taken on the proposal has been in the form of encouragement of the Board of Trustees by Hesburgh to follow the matter closely and to express their opinions to Chairman Mills and their respective representatives. 
than they were in the past. Professor William Liu, chair­man of the sociology department, although a signee of the second letter, would agree selectively to both letters. Although he agreed with most everything in the original letter, he abstained from 
(continued on page 5) 


307 S. Mich. St.

Avon -. 
288-7800 
TODAY OPEN 6:15 
YOU HAVEN'T SEEN ANYTHING UNTIL YOU'VE SEEN EVERYTHING*­
~ Umted ArflSts 
Held Over 


Friday, October 6, 1972 

Firemen speculate on cause of Grace fire 
... 
by Janet Longfellow Observer Staff Reporter 
Firemen's investigations into Wednesday's seventh floor fire in Grace Hall have revealed new information. However, the Notre Dame Fire Chief was out of town and there fore unavailable for comment. 
The fire started in maid Dorothy Smith's utility cart which was left on the seventh floor below a bulletin board while she went down 
to a lower floor. Later, she heard there was a fire on one of the upper floors, which a janitor attemped to put out with a fire extinguisher. The only part of her cart not destroyed by the flames was the metal frame. The fire alarm was pul1ed by an unknown person, probably a hall resident, soon after the fire began. Notre Dame trucks arrived only two minutes after receiving the alarm. 
Some Grace Hall residents claimed that the fire began when someone dumped an ashtray into a nearby trash container. A post­fire investigation showed that a fire would not have begun under normal conditions. The assump-
Letter signers comment 
(continued from page 4) 
signing it because of the blame it put on one administrative office. "The Administrative decision­making has always been very centralized," explained Dr. Liu. Another reason for his refusal to sign the first letter was that he felt "something had to be said vis a vis to other campuses. The University is not deteriorating in relation to other universities." 
The establishment of the Committee on Priorities has been a great disappointment to Dr. Liu. "There is anything but openness in the selection of the Committee members," he insisted. He claims that the representation of the Arts and Letters College in the Com­mittee was very poor since representation of the fine arts and the social sciences were not selected. This was a very serious issue he felt because the basic logic of inquiry involving the social sciences is so different, and because the substantive area of concern (modern technological world) could not be expressed to students unless they know about the model world. Dr. Liu believes that we're entering into an era where the social sciences are gaining importance as far as its impact in modern life. 

Life! 
'3 Shows ( at: 2:()()-5:30-9:00 2 Shows (Mon. thru Thurs. 2 & 8 
Erratum 

Y t-sterday's Observer designated a picture of Fr. Wht>lan as the Grace Hall t"t>ctor. He was Grace's 
•·ector  last  year.  The  
current  rector  is  Fr.  
Thomas McNally.  

tion has been made that a piece of paper from the bulletin board above the cart fell onto it, and the highly-flammable aerosol cans and furniture polish ignited. 
Residents on upper floors noticed the burning smell, but showed little, if any, concern. The fire alarm was generally ignored, and there is a question as to whether it was loud enough to be : heard. Notre Dame Security Head ( Arthur Pears said he received the ·•:· alarm at Security Headquarters, but that it may ahve been shut off in Grace Hall too soon after it was sounded. He considers this a common mistake made by the rectors, only because alarms are so often sounded accidently or as a joke. 
Dr. Liu 'feels that social sciences are essential to a great university. In the past, he stated, Catholic universities in America have failed to develop their social sciences programs. Notre Dame is not a bout to remedy this situation in 
light  of  its  composition  of  the  
Committee  on  Priorities,  he  
proclaimed.  "Therefore,"  he  

stated, "I feel that the decision­making process, which I consider basically unchanged, has serious consequences for the future of the university." 

COLOR IN THIS "MINI­

PRESIDENTIAL 
1. 
Buy a bunch of Flair pens. You need black, brown, orange, yellow, purple, and green. (You need them anyway for school.) 

2. 
Color in the picture according to these color guide numbers. (1). Black (5). Brown (6). Orange (7). Yellow (9). Purple (12). Green. Do not color unnumbered areas. 


Damage to the seventh floor of Grace Hall was investigated, and among other damage, this scorched wall revealed the cause of Wednesday's fire. 
BUSES CIRCLE O'HARE 
FOR THANKSGIVING Leave 
Return

All Sales Final. Nov. 22 
Nov. 26 Tix on sale at the Travel Bureal:l. Questions call Monte Kearse at 7757 3479 
POSTER" OF ONE OF THE 

CANDIDATES! 
3. Congratulations! You have created a genuine full color portrait of someone you know and love. Maybe. If he is not yourfavorite presidential candidate, have patience. You'll see your favorite next in 
the Flair Election Collection! 
(Don't forget to ask about Flair's running mate, the Flair Hot Liner.) 
GET 






PEISOttAl ABOUT IT! 
... ---: -_ -: --_­
JONES 

'tl7 
~ 

/---:7 . 
-

l.L PRINT ANVlM\WG ~ 

!#rsOil(JIJzed 


CUSJ 


SHIRTS WH'T~ \-SHIRTS COLOR TRIM T· SWIRTS HEATHER l-SHIRtS OLYMPIC. GRAY T·SHIRTS COLORED T-SWIRlS FOOTBAll JERSEYS TANK 10PS ~1/E/170 1/()JIELTY/lES/6'1/S  
S,ECIAL I)ISC.OUNTS lO OR~N\ZAliONS f"Oit GltOUP SA~II!S  
'''8 NUSMAWAICA A1l. FROM ADAM~ .S.  


~~ ~~ ~-----~ ~---------~-­
THE OBSERVER A Familiar Game 
( 
, 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Editorials printed in The Observer reflect the opinion of the writer,
News: 283-1715 
on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the
EditoriaI: 283-8661 
individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial comment.
Business: 283-7471 
Friday, October 6, 1972 
Open The Lobbies 
Wednesday night, the St. Mary's Student faculty reaction and a small amount of Assembly unanimously passed a well-their administrative leverage, the new worded reasonable motion that will soon plan for open lobbies cannot conceivably verify the new progressive nature of St. fail. Mary's. That motion called for open The path that SMC Student Government lobbies in all the residence halls. has picked is evident. In contrast to last 
It seems thatSMC is finally shedding the year's blatant demand for parietals they convent mantle that has shrouded its view have instead decided to work gradually of the world for many, many years. This is toward them. Open lobbies are the first perhaps just the surface view and the step. Next come a case for parietals and motion for open lobbies could be the first somewhere in the future lies the hope for test of the new image. open dorms. Though all that lies in the 
The motion is a progressive one, the idea future and the concern is now, its im­a reasonable one. The complete passage of portance is clear. This is the first step and it should be inevitable. first steps always tend to be jumps instead 
The question that remains though is of steps. With a jump comes momentum what clout will the vote of the Student and momentum is the required commodity Assembly carry. Alone probably not a here. whole lot. But the far-sighted student Open lobbies is but the first jump in leaders of St. Mary's have also taken that hopefully a series of leaps. The students into account. Sunday they have invited a have declared their loud support for it. group or'faculty members to an open house Now the faculty gets its chance to help. at Regina Hall. Afterwards they go to the . Sunday we hope these faculty members Clubhouse for dinner and talk. And what present are responsive, for this is an issue the subject will be is obvious. of supreme importance if SMC really 
The students' vote needs the extra power cares to throw off that blinding mantle. of faculty backing. Administrations everywhere have the bad habit of viewing 
Jerry Lutkus

student votes almost as if they never Maria Gallagher
happened. However, with a favorable IIIIIlllllllillllllllIIIIIIIllII1111111111111II11111111111111II111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111II II 11111111111111111111111111111 
Politics And The Election 
bill betz 
The American political process cannot be un­The result of the wage freeze has been that wage derstood from news reports. Intricacies cannot be increases have been held to about 5 per cent while grasped from superficial facts. With such thoughts corporate profits are reaching new highs. Unem­in mind I travelled to Indianapolis last Friday to ployment under Nixon has increased from three attend a meeting of the respective chairmen of the million to five million. As a result of Nixon tax regional McGovern committees of Indiana at the policies, individuals now pay 77 per cent of all Democratic State Headquarters. I hoped to learn federal invome taxes, compared to less than 71 per something about politics that can't be learned from cent in 1969. Corporations pay less than 23 per cent, newspapers. compared to almost 30 per cent in 1969. 
The proceedings were what I imagine a meeting Nixon has vetoed education bills, health of advertising executives to be like. We sat around programs. job opportunity proposals, and increases a rectangle of long tables and talked strategy. My in programs for medical care for veterans, water first "smoke-filled room." Issues and principles and sewage construction, and public works. were disregarded for the moment and energy was Nixon's 1973 budget allocates more than $5 billion mobilized for the marketing of a product, in this for highways and only $390 million for mass tran­case George McGovern. The name didn't matter, sportation in the cities. though. It could have been any name; it was only Under Nixon, the Army, F.B.I., C.I.A., and I.R.S. strategy talk. have investigated political dissenters, while 
I came away disillusioned, even though I already Congressmen, newsmen, clergymen, and union know that politics is a dirty business. There was officials have been "watched." Also, the govern­much talk about media manipulation, hustling ment tried to suppress the Pentagon papers and money. ripping-off materials, using people, and increased the use of wiretapping. public relations, talk which can only form a cynical Under Nixon, 20,000 Americans and many more shell around any idealistic heart. And so I felt that Vietnamese have been killed and more bombs have sincerely I could not get myself concerned about all been dropped on Vietnam than were dropped in all this. I could not be a working part of this effort to of World War II and Korea combined. And is the elect George McGovern President. end in sight? 
A realization must be made, however, that life is Finally, Nixon is requesting the biggest military not ideal , What we are left with is the mass of budget since World War II. Ifthis request is passed, contradictions, confusion, and paradoxes that 60 cents of every dollar paid in income tax will go to composes the life we know. The dirty dealings of military spending. politics, than, should not cloud the more important This is the product of the Nixon Administration objective -changing the direction of the country. and the promise of "Four More Years." George Yet they are and this is what disturbs me about the McGovern has offered an alternative that has current campaign. earned the endorsement of the New York Times 
George McGovern is not an ideal. He is only a (notable contributor to the Observer) and other man. Yet he is being characterized as an ideal and creditable and prestigious organizations. These are destroved as such. A straw man has been created the issues that must carry primary recognition, not and people are scared away from McGovern when the Eagleton affair, or Nixon's campaign finances, they should be rejection the direction the nation has or the internal disputes of the McGovern taken under Nixon. organization, or the artificiality of the Republican 
The attention needs to be focused on Nixon and Convention. The importance is the direction in Company and the evidence shows the record to be which the federal administrations leads us as if distressing. It then is incumbent upon those con­fights inevit~ble difficulties, both internally and cerned a bout America's future course to replace the externally caused. Is the direction we want toward Administration. It is a total process, a total change. the consolidation of the Military-Industrial Complex 
Consider the show Nixon has choreographed. that Eisenhower warned against? Since Nixon took office, the cost of living has risen I'm probably just wasting space here because the 18 per cent. Food prices have risen over 4 per cent a outcome may already be decided. In contemporary year during his administration, a total of 15 per cent politics the importance of impression and Nixon is since 1969. This is a rate of increase 50 per cent really doing an effective job media massaging us faster than the rate furing the Kennedy -Johnson much work to change this country around, the kind 
years. The price of clothing has risen 12 per cent, of work talked about in Indianapolis. housing a_nd medical care 21 per cent. 
greg aie.llo 
In a country that only recently has developed an aversion to war, chess seems a perfect outlet for the violence inherent in our tradition. It is a war, but its death isn't permanent. In every game someone must die but they live to die again. Fisher made his bones in a civil war. Now he is conquering the world, in a fashion not so dissimilar from Alexander, Napoleon, or Adolf Hitler. But the death he spreads isn't permanent. He "crunches" are temporary. Progress. 
Let me reduce this a bit further. The chess player, the controller, is commander and chief of his army. He is never directly involved in the death he controls. He sets stradegy, viewing his rival as if by close circuit T.V. He attacks. Purpose -destroy as quickly as possible, sacrifice what you must. 
He has vast resources at his control. The pawn, a draftee, ex­pendable, not mobile, limited in his effectiveness to kill, necessary. Pawns are noble. They front the line, knowing little of the stradegy for the upcoming battle. They are usually the first casualities. They are simple in design, without faces, unmarked graves. "Theirs is but to do and die." 
Next, the knight, on a horse, intermingled among the pawns, controlling, soon to battle, a better killer. He's mobile. He's deceptive and valuable in his sneaky, clever ability to strike. He's a captain. Captains are always sneaky. They control death better than they kill. 
Beside the knight in the pre-battle formation is the bishop, a peculiar name for a piece with such a high facility for destruction. The bishop destroys subtly, moving in diagonals across the board. Often one doesn't re~lize that he is in danger from the bishop. He's hit blindly, unexpectly, and therefore with added pain and horror. The bishop is a valuable piece to any army. The controller needs him desperately for support. The bishop has a great capacity for killing, and neutralizing the opponent's ability to kill. Such is the case with Bishops. 
Rooks are set up to guard the extremities. Their shape is that of a castle tower. One senses a protection from them somewhat like a rib cage that protects the vulnerability of the human body; it's heart. They move vertically and horizontially, crashing defences like a tank, They too are valuable killers; for they have a quality so important to good killers, they fear nothing. Rooks are willing to die in order to severely damage the enemy. They are detached and professional. 
Now we come to the queen, the most vital and complete killer on the board. She kills in any direction and at any distance. A true assassin. The queen has something the other pieces don't; she is a hunter as well as a killer. One senses that the queen has become such a good hunter because at one time or another she was the one that was hunted. Her shape is even ominous with points extending from her helmet. She is invaluable to the controller, the professional, made by design to kill. She is a force, the strength of the attacking unit. You can't look at her and not think of Luca 
Brasi . a roman gladiator or Humphrey Bogart jn The Killers. She is a result of many years development-the perfect soldier. 
She rests next to the king in the pre-battle formation; closer to him than any other individual on the microcosm of the chess board. The king is the heart of the game. He is what must be saved, protected, sacrificed for, killed and died for. It seems that a king is a must in every war. UZHe usually doesn't fight, for he really isn't capable of it. As a soldier he isn't real. He is a myth, an ideology, which enters the fight and gives it purpose. Save the Holy Land, Civilize the world under Roman law, prevent slavery, hail the master race, stop communism. He is the purpose, the reason to fight. In a game of chess, he can fly any banner the controller wants him to. 
Currently there is a chess tournament in progress at Notre Dame. Is there any better place than here,the mythical home of another of this country's violent substitute for war, college football, 
to have such a tournament. No use denymg the obvious, our history has been one of violence and hostility. We've always afforded ourselves the luxury of detaching outselves from the violence and destruction we wrought. Chess is a current expression of that detached violence. If any harm comes from thie violence in the rathskeller or on Saturday afternoons, for the most part it isn't permanent and surely not in mass. We're a country use to luxury. Take part. · 
ltUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 

daane•bur 


I 

~..........................------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-~ ' 
Friday, October 6, 1972 the observer 
7 





Letters • • • 
. .. on ~ncgovern, lighting, and ChicagC? 
yvp poll should be just as indignant towards to be slow. Physicians report there "discredited" the Observer. Only I canonce 1again rejoice in the the group of fraudulent pollsters is grave danger of permanent the Observer can do that, and only glowing words of praise that have who though they could usurp the injury to the brain when a pugilist the Observer has. been so thoughtfully included with 
Editor: support of George McGovern by is beaten badly and repeatedly tneir masterful recordings. And I am writing this letter in order the publishing of a farce they call knocked to the floor. when my hope in all mankind has 
C. J. Nau 
an indication of student sym­dwindled· and I find my Moody
to refute the Young Voters for the Hasn't the time come to outlaw President's statement that pathies. How pathetically naive do this barbarous and brutal 2~ J<eenan Blues records wearing a little 
you think we are? "Sport"? Every year witnesses thinn, I can still find the same
President Nixon holds a 15 per cent lead over Senator George the death of one or more pugilists, (The Observer does not now, and expressions of hope and salvation 
for all men in the nearest Chicago
McGovern on the Notre Dame-St. Sincerely yours, while many others live as punch­has not for three years, received a album. ­
Mary's camous. This is nothing Dennis McCabe drunks in a shadowy world, grant from the student govern­And when I long for a few hours
but ar. intent.i.on~ tdistortion of the verging on mental death. Such 
Hesburgh friends barbarism is a shame and a ment fund. ed.) of totally supernatural ecstacy, Itruth. Yes indeed, President Nixon just place Chicago's latest ten­
shows a 15 percent lead in their poll disgrace to our nation and the time record set on the spindle, lay downmainly because thsy have ignored Dear Editor: has surely come to ring down the and a Chicago nut
My name is Thomas Shine. I am a curtain on these revolting and in bed and glance up at the god-like any student who did not seem to 
respond favorably. At their 1970 graduate of the University of bestial spectacles. Editor: twenty-foot posters of each 
member of the group (included
organizational meeting they came Notre Dame, and I am presently I was much disappointed to find free! ) which cover my four walls
right out and said to ignore those very much involved in the cam­John A. O'Brien your October 3rd issue lacking of ceiling, and floor, and imagine if ithat were for Senator McGovern. paign to elect Senator George what I had assumed would become can one of of the real live Chicago They dreampt up the 36 percent for McGovern President of the United a daily article on my most favorite concerts I've attended. Just seeingMcGovern because no one could States. I am writing to express Long vs. Kersten rock group, Chicago. From your 
possibly believe that nobody deep concern for the disclosure in past coverage of this supergroup, Terry Kath 's hands blurring all 
over the guitar assures me that he 
supported McGovern on this the Washington Evening Star that which included a review of their
Editor: is indeed the greatest of all 
campus. One of the pollsters came O.C. Carmichael has very close latest album, a preview of their
Tom Long's insistence that his guitarists, and that Chicago is the 
to my room and asked me along connections with the University, in recent concert <which included
recent article on Bob Kersten was best goddam rock bank around.
with my roommates whom we its past being on the Board of happily a review of all their
"not an attack" is more than a bit
intended to vote for. We had 3 for Trustees and heading the Summa recorded work), and a review of
reminiscent of a certain someone Sincerely,
McGovern and one not sure. He Drive. I called Father Hesbhrgh their recent concert, I was hoping
not about to "praise Caesar." R. Gulcher
did not even mark this down. He late Friday night of this past week that you were finally coming to the 
Long's concern for .the students'
then went across the hall and and actually did get the chance to realization, as I have in the past 1215 Madison Ave. 
$80,000 is well placed, if not well
asked them whom they intended to talk to him. He told me that Mr. year, that there is no other rock 'n' 
•nnn1mmm••••••••mn1
expressed, but perhaps he should
vote for. They had 2 for McGovern Carmichael was no longer on the roll group worth caring about.
explain why the students of Notre
and one for Nixon. The pollster Board of Trustees, having resigned Now that it seems that I have Letters to the editor should be
Dame should be subjected and
last year, and that he had con­been disappointed in this hope (in
then turned his back on the addressed care of The Observer
exposed to a constant flow of pure 
McGovernites and spoke only to tributed a million dollars to the fact, I noted a review in your paper ' 
crap and childish tripe, day after Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana. The 
the student for Nixon. Even the Summa Drive. Father Hesburgh of some group called "Yes"), it
day, on the pages of the Observer -Observer reserves the right to edit 
student for Nixon agreed that the went on to say that Mr. Car­seems· that I will have to rely on poll was a farce. How could they· michael's only connection with -which is supported 'and owes its my previous source of information, all letters according to space
existence to) that $80,000. Long's
lose? They did not even account Notre Dame now, was his friend­namely, their album jackets. Here limitations. 
dreary and ultimately bitchy
for the opposition. As usual the ship with Father Hesburgh, which 
remembrances of early symptoms 
Nixon people settled for something I would suppose is a very powerful 
of Kersten's "ego trip" (The Beach 
less than the truth. connection. 
Boys tee-shirt was the tip off) are
I think that there should be some
Polls taken in this manner are 
as important to this campus'
typical of the Nixon campaign. He questions asked about the 
communicative life as in depth
would like to make one think that possibility that some very im­
articles on the breeding of moles.
he is so far out in front that it is portant people connected with 
When the Voice and then the
ridiculous to vote for MCGovern Notre Dame might have been 
Observer first began publishing
not to· mention working for him. involved in the present apparent 
Campaign scandal. Though I here, some of their more con­
This sort of distortion1in the Nixon 
disagree completely with Mr. troversial editorials and exposes
campaign is the same type of 
distortions that the Nixon Ad­Carmichael's political viewpoint, caused considerable and often 
heated debate. One editor was
ministration has given to us. From and wonder just how he reconciles 
Vietnam to Civil Rights to the his interest in education with a even accused of creating news 
stories. But few questioned the
9rain Scandal to Watergate, President who vetoes every 
Nixon's incredibility certainly education bill as inflationary, I competence and effectiveness and 
importance of the paper. One
ranks up there with the likes of can't hold such political views 
Ulysses Grant and Warren Har­against him. Ifhowever, he is now editor is now with the New York dings. Perhaps the best way to or was involved in that campaign Times, two others with the describe the philosophy on the venture to reelect Nixon, I think he Washington Star and one has a best selling biography of McGovern on
Nixon team is to say: "A lie is not owes many people, everyone at a lie unless one gets caught -and Notre Dame an explanation. the market. 
Often times, it was the Observer 
even then it is somebody else's Sincerely, 
that effectively called attention to
lie". It is now your war Mr. Thomas Shine 
the substantive issues facing the
President because you said you 
outlaw lighting campus, and intelligently pursued 
could end it. It is your disorder Mr. 
the qauestions involved. The
President because you said you Editor, 
paper was read not merely
:ould make our·cities save again. The spectators at the Ramos­
because it was interesting or a
The lies go on and on and will not Carmona lightweight cham­
diversion in the meal line, but
stop as long as we have a president pionship fight in Los Angeles 
because it was informative and
wno is more concerned with witnessed an unusual sight. Men 
well directed. This simply cannot
ma~':Jlating public opinion rather were carrying the defeated 
be said of the Observer today.
then l'istening to it. The lies will champion Mando Ramos on a 
Articles on important issues are 
Tonight 
People and Song Present 
Cindy Corsaro Butch Ward Randy Forton * Dave Gray Chuck Beck Bob Robin Alumni Hall Lounge Admission : 25¢ Fridays 9 -2 Refreshments 
Tired of Getting Your Hair Wiped-Out? 

Is it Sick? Is It Damaged? Is It Tangled? Does It Need shaping up? 
"Let Sue style your hair." 
continue .a:; long as we have a stretcher out of the ring. Knocked 
sloppily reported and edited, and
president who is afraid to meet the down four times before the referee 
·We solve long hair problems I
.often ill conceived. More often
press. who i;) afraid to engage in stopped the fight in the eighth 
than not, the personal columns
open debate with his opponents round, Ramos was beaten into 
All Services By Appointment
reflect little more than the squeaky 
(His campaign manager says it near insensibility. 
whining of someone who imagines 
aJre_ WinJjammer
would not be in his best interests -He was trying to climb out of the 
himself scorned. 
indeed it would not). The lies will ring after' the fight when the 
HAIR STYLING FOR DISCRIMINATING MEN & BOYS
physician in attendance, Dr. Long complains that no one is 

~

continue as long as we have a 
1637 Lincoln Way W. Ph9ne 232-6622
aware of Kersten's nefarious deeds 
president who is so cynical of Bernhard Schwartz, noticed him 
because his comments have
democratic action that one has to stagger and almost fall. The 
revert to courageous men like doctor had a stretcher brought to Daniel Ellsberg in order to find out the ring and ordered Ramos to lie the hidden facts about our fiasco in down until an ambulance arrived. Southeast Asia. The American Taken to Santa Fe Hospital, people are tired of the Nixon Ramos was placed upon ad­people telling us what we believe mittance in the hospital's coronary in. The Notre Dame community unit when his heart beat was found 
In the heart of downtown :south Bend 

OOD FOOD AT MO EST PRICES ·Steaks ·ChoJ)s ·ChickeA ·Sea Food u i elf atm os h~re -pleasant 
~...., 

surroundings 
CLOSED MONDAYS 
Daity & Sunday 11 am till 9 pm Saturday 11 am tiU 10 pm 
...__-----~---~~---­
1972 ND STUDENT TRIP 
SEE THE IRISH PLAY THE FALCONS OF AIR FORCE DEPART: Friday, (early pm) Nov. 10, RETURN : Sunday, (late pm) Nov. 12 Here's How To Take Advantage Of The Packaged Plans: 
A.) The Full Package ($140.00) --including round-trip bus transportation between Sou.th Bend and O'Hare Field, round-trip plane transportation between ~h1cago and Denver, complete baggage service, hotel ac. commodat1ons f~r two nights, round-trip bus transportation between Denver and th_e ~1r Force Academy (box lunches will be served en route) and free adm1ss1on to a pre-game party (Friday night) and to a victory party (Saturday night after the aame). 
B.) Partial packages more suited to your needs are available. 
Signups may be handled in the OffCampus Office basement of LaFortune from 11 :30 am to 4:00 pm Deadline for signups and payment is Tuesday, Oct. 10. For further information Call Jim Shanahan at 233-4840 


8 
the observer Friday, October 6, 1972 
Anatomy of a state political convention 



Corporations, chickens 

by Maria Gallagher and Mike Baum Observer Convention Correspondents 
Hoo boy, when you're hot, you're hot! And indeed it was a hot one in Rehoboth Beach on Monday, the 17 of July. The Sea Horse and Buggy's Jack Tarr potatoes couldn't be beat, even if the restuarant wasn't on the official recommended list mailed out to party faithful... 
In a year hosting the awesome majesty of a Presidential election, it is incumbent upon every right-thinking American to strive for a better understanding of the political processes of his country. This may be ac­complished by reading The Federalist Papt>rs, or by attending a small state party convention. The Papers are theoretical and dull; which brings us to the Delaware State Republican Convention--great en­tertainment, and easily cheaper than diamonds of equal weight... 
Arrival 

"How the hell are you?" <And who the hell cares?) Rehoboth Beach resounds to hearty backslaps and profane greetings . as delegates from the three countries con­verge. Now is the time for all good men to come to the aid of their party! The press arrives as well, weighed down by the tools of their trade--a diverse sort, but congenial enough, and the immediate task is to find a 
r seat. Some of the de!egates have been Gov. Russell Peterson: "How the hell are you?" (But who th~ 
r ripped off by their constituents who came to 
r watch. Tsk, tsk! Badges (entitling the 
r bearer to a choice lo~ation and some free 
r 
soft drinks) are distributed to the press; r somebody wants to know where the hell the 
~ Nominations: The 1
Obst-rver is. NBC is there too, along with Kickoff The main business , AP--God knows why. At 7:53 the Chairman gavels the hall into a as the assembled
Atmosphere lesser decible bracket; hall and organ 
Delaware finally g€The evening session is optimistically swing into "God Bless America," led by the Sen. Caleb Boggs.
scheduled to begin at 7:30; the floor is State Committee Chairman at the mike. 
will take the nominprimeval chaos. Each trip from the door in He's a formidable tenor, and somewhere unopposed. This i~
the back of the hall to the press table down the press table, comeone wonders directly below the podium in front is a major aloud if one must audition for the State must face the : 
youngster, Joe BidEproject, but the air conditioned room con­Chairmanship. Associated Press, seated style, and the martrasts favorably with Rehoboth's 97 one chair over, notes on his copy paper, "At 
degrees. follows the panegy1
least two need a shave." Who? The State Cale...lots of young g The hall is decorated in the classic style: Committeemen? Half the speakers table signs and a local higl American Political Convention Con­are women, he can't mean them, can he? 
In the loose formatemporary. This involves enough red, Tom Evans, Co-Chairman to the National retreat, they marchwhite, and blue bunting to sew a circus tent, Committee, is introduced for the keynoter ­their alloted 10 minuland picture-posters of the incumbent stars­" ... tremendously successful work ... one of old standby tun,RMN. Gov. Russ Peterson, Lt. Gov. Eugene the handful of people ... a great American 
again ..."Hail, ha
Bookhammer, Rep, Pierre S. ("Call me and a great Republican ... Tom Evans!!" 
here"... "Freezeajoll Pete") duPont IV, and Spiro, who never "Mr. Chairman, platform guests, guy beating
needs a last name. Everywhere there is delegates and alternate delegates to this a drur 
hair! And playing ithat new symbol of the Republican elephant convention, my fellow Republicans: I In a bow to the
--the thing that looks like an early model appreciate very much being invited to e 
band was

red, white, and blue Kenmore. address this convention (he'd be madder recycled 
with minor changes To fill the interlude between the time the than a blue hen if he wasn't>. ..a state that is Pete DuPont ~convention was supposed to get under way second to none (in "Chickens, corporations Congressman (ourand the time it actually does begin, your two and Charisma," according to the foregone conclusion.
Obst-rvers tried their hand at pandering Democrats >...using the banner of 'New Let us tell you abo1pamphlets for Pete duPont. Pete himself Politics' the McGovern coalition ... we must Congressman-at-Iar~appears, having lingered a little while avoid overconfidence at all costs ... we must best PR corps youlonger than we did at the Sea Horse and more than ever concentrate upon the because he has to cBuggy, and declines a pamphlet. He political basics (back to Machiavelli?) .. Jet disability, namely n
manages to look marvelously plebian in his us be together ... men like Abraham Lincoln madras shirt and golf pants despite his Duco and Richard Nixon ... " (oh, come on, So he gets catct 
DuPont"-and nifty 1cement-nylon-Corfam-Quiana-etc. heritage. Tom!> 
were handing out 
material, newsletter, 
election folders, has 
on 100 per cent rec)
The secretary lady contributes what may become the rallying cry of the Democrats: Yessir, Pete knows paranoid, see, about 
..You people on the right ... / can't understand you but I con hear a lot of music noise." 
comes out in his 
stration ..... Curtain ' 
the front, a different 

songs, 0 for he's a j has homemade signs 
produced run off t 
professional printing 
process for good ol' 
boys, No Sir! 
HOMEMADE SIGN 
pretty folk followin~ 
and, so help me, Cr< 
Pete, has publicly pr 
of the boys. 

Well, now, Russ 
governor -gets nc 
unlike good ol' Cale < 
is going to have to fi 
see, this fella Bucks1 
Cover Downs Intern 
Sulky racing track) 
Russ has much the because he's on lem lucrative ($75,000 position as Direct• Development for thE we heard that name 

-..~ 
l 
Friday, October 6, 1972 the observer 9 
--GOP style

~ he// cares.) 
echnique of Charis'lla >f the evening unfolds, night _of Republican s to the nominations. 
Good 01' Cale Boggs tion for another term cold comfort, for he 1emocrat's fighting 
1. Cale does it with latory demonstration :cs to Cale, good ol' rls carrying printed up school marching band ion of the Bull Run .o the front and spend ~s playing thice or four s over and over I the gang's all goodfellow" ... and one 1 has shoulder-length 
•r good ol' Cale!! ology movement, the :hroughout the night, as were the tunes. ~ts nominated for one and only!); a 
t Pierre S. DuPont IV, 
~-Pete has one of the 
ll ever hope to see, 
rercome his crippling 
lney. 
r slogans -"RePete 
ttle pamphlets like we 
earlier, and all his 
from Washington and 
he little note "Printed 
~led paper." 
where it's at. But he's 
all that money, and it 
10 minute demon­
ime! ... The mob hits 
land, but all the same 
1lly... but Pete DuPont 
!! None of you mass­
le fat cat oppressor 
press four color offset 
'ete, who's one of the 
~ood ol' Pete, has 
i, -(and the usual 
. In Magic Marker, 
(on ! Yessir, good ol' 
1Ved that he's just one 
'eterson -incumbent 
ninated again, only 
td good ol' Pete, Russ 
ht for it, because you 
n (Dave, President of 
tional Speedway and 
rants the position too. 
arne problem as Pete, 
~ of absence from his 
~orth of lucrative) 
r of Research and 
DuPont <where have 
t>efore.?) Companv. 
Russ has Organization and his band reflects it uniforms! He is a con­servationist, we're told, and he did indeed ban Shell Oil from the Delaware coast. 
So here's Russ "Tahellwitshell" Peterson fighting for it. His band and demonstrators are carefully sprinkled with all the newsworthy groups, roughly 45 percent female, and 8 percent black, and 10 percent youth (actually, they're all youth, but this 10 percent is 12 or under ... ) 
'Russ' signs are mostly commercial jobs, like Cale's, but a few are homemade, maybe to show humility. 
Peterson's opponent, Dave Buckson, is now nominated by a woman. About half of the total number of nominating and seconding speechs tonight will be given by women, about 1out of 10 will be black, and a couple will be young and female. The "most Republican state in America in 1970" doesn't need need a weatherman to tell which way the wind blows. 
Buckson has definitely pulled a coup with his demonstration. Some smart types are behind this, and your education in political processes is about to be furthered. 
A few people walk up quiet amid the uproar of more vocal Buckson supporters, to the front of the hall and several microphones are set up. In a lull, Dave, who has pulled a fast one by appearing on the floor tonight, announces "Our demon­stration is going to be one of songs, lightness and joy ... no footstomping." 
The choir, for that's what he's got <no band) swings and sings into "Will Everyone Here Kindly Step to the Rear? <And Let A Winner jafu Way)" When this wears thin, it is followed by "Our Delaware" and one by one the hall stands for the state anthem, as the word passes, "So that's what it sounds like." The press table is last to get the point. 
All this has taken up the ten minutes, easily, and the Chair rules the demonstration over, with his gavel. 
To no avail. He is outflanked on his 
patriotic side, because the Meistersinger 
gives a signal, and voices swell with "This is 
My Country", and what can a poor, loyal 
Republican chairman say to that? So he 
holds his peace without honor, and the choir 
finishes up. He begins to gavel for order 
again. but are they going to throw in the 
towel? You must be kidding! 
They've planned in advance, and they've 
found the weak spot in the 10 minute rule, so 
the choir now renders "God Bless 
America", because the 10 minute rule 
cannot cope with patriotism. 

Counting Your Chickens 

The balloting tonight will be the climax of 
long strife between Peterson and Bucks.on. 
Accusations have enlivenened the front 
pages of the local papers for weeks. The 
Kent County delegation, with amazing lack 
of coordination and timing, discovered that 
it had elected one too fP-w delegates, and 
since Kent is Buckson country, the action 
which dismisses the hastly appointed 
delegate as illegitimate stirs cries of 
protest. 

Another Kent delegate mysteriously 
defects tothe Peterson camp, and headlines 
ask "Did Bedroom Politics Steal Buckson 
Vote?" 

And so it is tense. Everyone knows that Buckson can't take the nomination from Peterson here, but if he can scrape by with 77 or so of the votes, he can force it into a primary. . 
The party secretary, a middle aged woman who demands silence in the tones of a school marm, takes the vote ... 
This is important. This more than anything is what these people are here for tonight. It is trite to say, but you can feel the change in mood. 
Along the press tables and rows of chairs, delegate lists appear; meticulous records are kept as the voting continues. The party atmosphere, the cameraderie that has attended so far vanishes in the presence of Serious Business. The lines of battle are drawn. 
Long hours of work by many people, and, doubtlessly, much personal agonizing and party conflicts go into this vote. Even to this Delaware convention -fifty times more humble than its Miami Beach parent-there comes something of that sense of Godlike power, that feeling of populi majesty that attends the actions of the complex political machine that is the United States. 
David Buckson, who the signs proclaim, "ought to be Governor" manages to pull 81 votes out of the fire, thereby throwing Russ Peterson into it. Trying to calm the con­fusion, the secretary-lady contributes what may become the rallying cry of the Democrats -"You people on the right...! '· I can't understand you but I can hear a lot of noise." 
The crisis past, we return to the circus. 
Peterson rushes in, obviously upset by Buckson 's technique and his showing, and begins his speech. It goes as such things go, and he exhorts the party to go out there and win in November, because the public wants a party that looks good in office, and (his voice drops a dramatic octave) "We've got a grrreat story to tell!" 
The evening descends into anticlimax, as Bookhammer takes the Lt. Governor nomination unopposed. <And who cares, in Delaware the Lt. Governor draws a salary comparable to part-time employment.) 
And then on to the thrilling nominations of Mary Jornlin for State Treasurer and George Cripps for State Auditor, but it's midnight, and stuffy, and the shooting's over. so all the press yawn, pack up, "Take it easy there, pal," and head for home. 
So it goes, to use our favorite one-liner. An evening of cola and heat, Jack, Tarr Potatoes and pamphlets. Masses of paper with frantically scribbled notes, ears deafened by the ~houts and cheers, minds bemused by the gaudy, spangled, heavy­handed political beast. 
We are ruled by a system of quiet rooms, artfully worded letters, circus sideshows and unveiled hints. And a system of almost clean polls. delegate ballots, citizen meetings, and ther ever-present political threat of another election. 
You wonder if this represents or merely beguiles. You think that perhaps it is terrible that it must work this way -or maybe it is the grace of God that it works this way, for no Founding Father quite envisioned this. But cheer or decry, you must realize that here, in this confused and confusing process that no one quite un­derstands or can predict, is a system that will outlive us all. 
Candidate Buckson, who opposes 18 year old drinking, reportedly carded this beer guzzling elephant. 
Photos courtesy of the Delaware State News 
the observer Friday, October 6, 1972 
lewis 
Is Paris happening? 
by Anthony Lewis <c) J!t72 New York Times News Service 
Boston. Sept. 2H --Outside of the small circle officially involved, none of us can really be informed on the state of the talks between Henry Kissinger and Le Due Tho. But among some people who have thought about Vietnam for years there is now a feeling --a tingling sensation, as one put it ­that something just could happen in Paris. 
After all the disappointments of past years, any hope of a negotiated end to the war must be shadowed by skepticism. Doubts are strengthened by the knowledge that President Nixon will use the very fact of the talks going on for political purposes. It is no accident that the White House an­nounced the time of Kissinger's return from the latest meeting, so cameras could be there to record his arrival. 
"On the basis of experience," one man long concerned with the Vietnam problem said, "You have to think that any sign of possible success in the negotiations is a combination of false hopes and game­playing by Nixon and Kissinger." The North Vietnamese have publicly discounted talk of progress in Paris, and sources close 
to  them  still  speak  of  election  -year  
American politics.  
On the other hand,  on  has to ask why  

Hanoi is playing the game, if that is all it is. Le Due Tho does not do things by accident: Why are he and his colleagues helping to re­elect Richard Nixon? 
Western observers who have been in North Vietnam recently report no slackening in the expressed determination to bear the burdens of the war, including American bombing, indefinitely if necessary. Nor is there any convincing sign of a crippled capacity to fight. Richard Dudman of the St. Louis Post-dispatch saw long lines of trucks bearing weapons and supplies between Haiphong and Hanoi. 
But a continuing war effort would not be consistent with a decision by the North Vietnamese leaders to try seriously for a settlement. They may have a different perception now of American political and psychological realities. They may be feeling more pressure from the con­stituencies that matter to them --in Moscow and Peking. French officials, who have as good contacts as anyone with the two sides in the peace talks, are expressing a high degree of optimism. 
What, then, could be the framework of a settlement? Even to explore that question in a speculative way is to realize the im­mense intellectual difficulties involved in trying to compromise the positions of two sides so deeply opposed in political ob­jectives, fears and pride. 
In President Nixon's declared view, the only appropriate way to change the legitimate government in Saigon is by elections. The United States will not join in imposing a coalition government because that could be a cover for communist control 
restan 
and a "bloodbath." After an internationally supervised cease-fire and the return of prisoners, the U.S . prisoners, the U.S. would withdraw all its forces and leave a 
political settlement to the Vietnamese. 
Hanoi, for its part, rejects elections managed by the Saigon Administration. It fears that its own people would be the vic­tims of a bloodbath if left to the control of President Nguyen Van Thieu and his police. It wants the United States to agree to a coalition by way of final settlement before leaving, so the Americans will have no excuse for returning -specifically for resumin g the bombing if unwelcomed political change occurs in South Vietnam. 
In general terms one can begin to imagine ways of closing those wide differences. Thieu could resign a much longer time before elections than the one month the U.S. has offered, but leaving the Saigon Ad­ministration otherwise intact. The political future could be fudged by leaving each side in control of its own areas, offering some form of guarantees for physical safety and protection from arrest on both sides and having elections not under the present Thieu constitution but for a constituent assembly to draft a new one. 
The trouble is that stating such ideas exposes the real difficulties. For example, would the United States continue to supply massive military assistance to a Saigon Government after a cease-fire? Would President Nixon accept any effective limit on that role? How could Hanoi conceivably accept the continued existence, even without Thieu himself, the army, police and bureaucratic apparatus through which Thieu has arrestedthousandsand suppressed all opposition'? 
Most difficult of all, would Nguyen Van Thieu be willing to resign for the sake of a settlement, betting that he will come back to power in the political process started by the agreement? Thieu's totaldisinclinationto do so has been made plain by his recent speeches excoriating the ideas of cease-fire and coalition --speeches that must have been directed in large part at the United States. 
Even such a sketchy canvas makes plain the delicacy of Henry Kissinger's role. For he must not only convince Le Due Tho that the chance of winning politically is good enough now to end a generation's military effort. Kissinger also has to persuade his own side to accept real risks: persuade the American military, Thieu, Nixon. Success in Paris will depend not on detail in the end but on basic attitudes. 
The problems are so hard that even new intentions on both sides, if they exist, may not succeed. If they do, it will be because the North Vietnamese are made to believe at last that the Americans are going to leave and stay away-and because Nixon comes to that determination himself in his view of Saigon. 

Faces 
baker 


Made for each other 
By Russell Baker 
(c) New York Times 
Belcher spotted the average American voter at a drive-in hamburger dispensary. He had just eaten $1.37 worth of gastric distress. 
"Hello there, my friend," said Belcher, extending his shaking hand. 
At the greeting the average American voter turned white and fled. He would have escaped, too, if his right rear tire had not gone flat right there on the parking lot. 
"You've got me," he said, stepping out of the car with his hands up. "Just tell me what you are running for, what you are going to do for me and how I can help save the country by electing you, and then leave me alone so I can change this tire." 
"My friend," said Belcher, "When I am elected there won't be any more flat tires." 
The average American voter stopped him in midpromise. "You must be an amateur," he said to Belcher. "You come out to mingle with me and you don't even have photographers to illustrate how happy you are ah9ut being with the average American. You insult my intelligence without first having me sing the National Anthem and participate in organized mass cheering about your excellence. And now you're getting ready to lie to me right here on a drive-in parking lot." 
Belcher could not be stopped. 
"When elected," he said, "There will be twice as many parking lots and everybody on them will be twice as ecstatic." 
"Don't you know anything at all, friend?" the average American voter asked. "You're not supposed to lie to me on a parking lot. All you're supposed to do on a parking lot is shake my hand and get photographed being smiled on ecstatically by me on account of your having the common touch which makes you so beloved by the little man." 
"Once elected," said Belcher, "The little man will be twice as little. He will no longer be simply the little man. No, my friend! Under my administration he will be the teeny, weeny man." 
The average American voter was becoming impatient, which is something he does comparatively rarely, considering the provocation he has. 
"Listen, buddy," he said to Belcher, "I was trying to tell you about lying to me. I don't like to be lied to standing on a drive-in parking lot. It isn't done that way. It just isn't done. I am supposed to be lied to on television, preferably in prime time.' 
"Immediately upon assuming office," Belcher roared, "I pledge that hypocritical prayer will be the order of the day, and the order of the night too, and of the dawn and twilight. I promise twice as much hypocrisy every hour." 
The average American voter's vexation had turned to sorrow and he was crying. He did not know whether it was because of the hamburgers or because he was suddenly very tired or because he had just realized that he and Belcher were made for each other. 

McGovern's self-analysis 
by James Reston <c) 1972 New York Times 
Boston. Oct. :' --In his latest swing through the East, George McGovern has been giving three reasons for his poor showing against President Nixon in the popularity polls. 
"First," he said, "a failure by me to communicate my real character and veracity to the voters, Second, a masterful political selling job by Mr. Nixon. And third, a possible inability by some of the press to bring the same critical examination to the two candidates." 
This is at least a partial explanation of his plight, but there is probably an even mQre fundamental fourth reason, namely, that he has probably misjudged the moou of the country, and emerged as thechampionof militant forces that want more change than the majority of the voters desire. · 
One of the main causes of personal anxiety in America today is that the people have not been able to adapt to the convulsive political, social, economic and moral changes of the last quarter century, and along comes George calling for more and faster change.. 
Also, he has allowed himself to be identified with the changes demanded by the militant blacks, the liberated young women, and the social and economic planners, who, regardless of the validity of many of their arguments for ending the war and providing more help for the very poor, are precisely the minorities the majority seem3 to fear the most. 
This, I believe, is the heart of his problem. He based his campaign on the assumption that the American people were ready, as they were 40 years ago, tor another great 
surge of innovative reform of foreign and domestic policy, 
and while there is a powerful case to be made for such 
reforms, he has not made it very well, and the country is 
in a far more conservative anti-negro, anti-welfare mood 
than he has believed. 
No doubt his own three explanations have some merit. He has failed to communicate his "real character and veracity to the voters." He came through at first as a more radical character than he really is, and has trimmed and changed to meet the mounting criticism, only to find that in trying to placate the democratic pros he has created doubt both among the pros and the young sup­porters who carried him to the nomination. 
Also, he has some personality problems which have nothing to do wtih his character or veracity. He seems stronger and and more believable in his trip here to Boston this week than he did in his first swing through New England several weeks ago, but somehow his voice which is bland and monotonous, doesn't go with his words' which are increasingly accusative and strident. ' 
There is undoubtedly something in his charge that the 
press has paid more attention to his internal political 
squabbling and switching than it has to Nixon s spec­
t~cular chang~s ~n both domestic and foreign policy, and 
h1s troubles w1thm the Republican National Committee. 
And while McGovern retains a remarkable composure 
and even a kind of biblical belief in the rightness of his 
cause and the wickedness of the opposition, it is always 
hard to launch an effective attack on the character of a 
President in the White House, which is what he is now 
doing more and more. 
Nothing infuriates George McGovern more than the suggestion that somehow three out of every four people polled are saying that they find Nixon more believable than McGovern, and this seems to have encouraged him to sweeping statements which even the critics of the president find hard to justify. 
Not so long ago, the senator was saying that the Nixon Admi~istration was "the most corrupt in recent history"; and th1s was changed to the "most corrupt since the days of Warren Harding"; and now this week it has become "the most corrupt in the two centuries of American government." 
Well. it is pretty bad, but as Andrew Jackson is said to have advised at the Battle of New Orleans, "Better elevate them guns a little lower." There is a solid and accurate case to be made aginst the President's record but after his startling innovations in China and the Soviet Union. it only weakens a good case to charge him with "the worst leadership in our history.'' 
Has the press been harder on McGovern's character than on the President's? Maybe so, but you couldn't get many votes for that proposition around the White House, where ~he old Nixon aides will neyer forgive the reporters for telhng the truth about Nixon's long record of political dirty tricks. 
McGovern had an enthusiastic reception in Boston this week and a mammoth .crowd of 35,000 or 40,000, and this May, as the Senator believes, indicate a turn in the campaign, but new tactics and fireside talks are not likely ~o tur:t around an electorate which seems to have made up lts.~md, not that George McGovern is a man lacking in ab1l_1tY_ or character, but that he is crying for changes a maJonty of the people don't like at a time when they're longing merely for a little calm and q:.liet. 

Friday, October 6, 1972 
the observer 1 1 

Holiday lnn: ugly, but necessary 
by Robert Reinhold 
(C) 1!)72 New York Times 
Cambridge, Mass.--A real estate developer has broken ground for a 19-story Holiday Inn that will tower over the planned John F. Kennedy Memorial on the banks of the 
Weekend chess to be rescheduled 
Because of a large amount of forfeitures, the final rounds of the Obsl't'\'l't'-Chess Club Chess Tournament have been moved to next week. Rounds originally scheduled for Friday, Saturday, and Sunday will not be played. Instead the final four rounds will he next week Monday through Thursday. 
All of the final rounds of the 
tournament will be in the 
Hathskellar in the basement of 
LaFortune Student Center. 
Frank Pillots, Chess Club President, noted that there was a great deal of forfeiting of matches in last nights play. This prompted the moving of the final rounds to rwxt week. 
Winners of the first prize will r·eceive a trophy and a cash prize. To the second and third place finishers go smaller trophies and copies of the F'ischer-Spasskybook donated by Pandora's Books. 
Pairings for Monday night's play will be published in Monday's Ohst•nt•t·. All action begins at 7:00. 
Midwest pro-life workshop to be next weekend at U. of Michigan 
by Andy Schilling 
A North Central Pro-Life workshop for the Midwest region will be held at the University of Michigan over the weekend of October 13-15 in order to draw attention to those opposed to abortion and euthanasia. 
The workshop is being sponsored _jointly by The National Youth Pro­Life Coalition and the University of Michigan Students in Defense of Life; the public is invited to attend. 
The schedule of workshop ac­tivities for the weekend will begin on the 14th with group discussions on the state of the Michigan abortion referendum. At noon, the participants will distribute literature and pamphlets to spectators at ·the Michigan­Michigan State football game. The day will culminate with a lecture bv Dr. J.C. Willke, author of "Handbook on Abortion," a best­seller among Pro-Life groups. Afterwards, the people will par­ticipate in a Candelight Vigil on the Ann Arbor Campus. 
Sunday's time will be spent at a general meeting of all par­ticipants, during which resolutions will be made and voting taken. 
The National Pro-Life Coalition was founded in November, 1971. It is a non-sectarian, apolitical group composed entirely of students. and working closely with segments of the adult right-to-life movement. The Coalition describes itself as "a loose con­federation of groups" simply 
~ 
RoGERS 


Optical 
110Gb ATWElL • OWNH 
Charles River here. 
Although almost everyone 
agrees on the need for the hotel, 
the design has been described as 
"ugly" and "undesirable" by 
community leaders. "We're un­
certain whether it's a shame or an 
outrage, but it's hardly a desirable 
addition to the community," 
remarked Charles U. Daly, a vice 
president of Harvard University, 
which will operated the Kennedy 
School of Government on the 
memorial site. 

The Kennedy Library Corp. 
issued a cautious statement 
Tuesday saying that the cor­
poration was "interested in 
achieving an atmosphere in 
keeping with the memorial aspect 
of the presidential library." It was 
understood that the Kennedys 
were privately upset over the turn 
of events. 

Excavation for the 315-room $3.5 
million hotel began a few days ago 
after inconclusive discussions 
between the developer, Kanavos 
Enterprises of Dedham, Mass., 
and the city and community 
groups. 

It is being built directly adjacent to the long-delayed library, which is 
still under design by I. M. Pei & 
Partners of New York, but none of 
its several buildings are expected 
to exceed seven stories. 
Cambridge's chief planner, 
Hobert Bowyer, has devised an 
alternate plan, spreading the 
motel out on its plot and reducing it 
to eight stories, but it's not yet clear attracted byexpected tourist rush whether the Kanovos Company will each go their own way without will go to the considerable expense concern for an over-all sceheme, 
providing "communication facilities and advice on forming pro-life groups." 
The Coalition worked in the Wisconsin primaries, questioning candidates about their views on abortion while trying to show the candidates that people are opposed to abortion reform. 
Most recently, the Coalition sponsored a National Rally for Human Life in front of the Lincoln Memorial which approximately 700 people attended. 
The Coalition follows a strictly non-violent philosophy, having adopted Victor Frankl's statement. "There is no life not worth living." Although it is against any killing, the Coalition takes a definite stand only on <tbortion, and euthanasia because it is composed of so many groups with differing ideologies. 
A spokesman for the Coalition, Mr. Miles Schmidt, said that the purpose of the workshop is to defeat the abortion referendum in Michigan, and to bring awareness of the right-to-life movement to more people. Mr. Schmidt added that the coalition is also opposed to the institution of euthanasia and cumpulsory sterilization. While not wishing to revert to "scare tactics," Mr. Schmidt said that hills have already been introduced in the Florida and Hawaii legislatures seeking compulsory sterilization for all those on welfare, while a euthanasia bill has only been narrowly defeated in Great Britain. 
HOURS, MON -TUES -THU1t -Pll 
fAN. 5:30PM WfD -SAT 9 AlA 12 NOON COMPLm $PfiCrACI.E SfiVICE 
AU. fH ot."S PIESCRIPTIONS HONOIEt 
Ca/t 
289-7809 
of altering its plans at this point.ln the next day or two the city is expected to request formally that the design be scrapped, but will offer certain "compensatory benefits" to the developer as in­centive. 
Opposition to the hotel has forged an unlikely alliance among Cambridge's usually bickering business, conservation, academic and community interest groups. The Cambridge Conservation Commission, the Chamber of Commerce and the Harvard Square Task Force, a quasi-official body, have all taken stands against the design and the city manager and city council are expected to act soon, although public pressure appears to be their only weapon. 
Because the building confirms fully to law, there seems to be no legal ground for challenge. The Kanavos Company, which has far flung interests in the United States and Europe, has expressed willingness to cooperate with the city, but says the city has been unable to specify what it wanted them to do. After considerable delay, they say, mounting interest and taxes on the vacant land forced them to proceed "in order to keep faith with our investors." 
Apart from the aesthetic con­sideration of defacing a site of national significance, the businessmenand cityplanners feel the hotel plans fulfills their worst fears: that individual developers, 
Mr. Schmidt summarized the purpose of the Coalition, saying "If we lose respect for life, how can we talk of anything else?" 
Notre Dame students are invited to attend the Workshop next weekend. Overnight ac­comodations and meals will be available for two dollars per night. Anyone seeking further in­formation should call (313) -665­!1000. 
TVARSCKI VODKA  quart  $4.60  
POPOV VODKA BARCLAY'S GIN CORBY'S RESERVE  1/2  gal. quart fifth  $9.06 $4.69 $4.49  

WINDSOR CANADIAN fifth $5.15 
* 10% Discount by the case 

YAGO SANGRIA $1 .99
fifth 


STRAWBERRY FIEL.I:5 $1.09
fifth 


BOONE'S FARM 
fifth 


$1.03

STRAWBERRY 
*Best beer prices in town *Keg Beer *warm or cold -Same Price 
... -.1.:._ ~ 


Town & Country Liquor 
Town & Country Shopping Center 
for traffic and pedestrian flow, character of the historic Harvard parking problems and the Square area. 
"The Servant" October 7&8 
directed by Joseph Losey Screenplay by Harold Pinter 
Engineering Auditorium 
8 & 10 p.m. 
$1 CAC patrons free 
COKE OR 7-UP 
8-16oz ctn. 



79ft

plus dep. 
River Park Liquor 
2411 Mish. Ave. 
Friday, October 6, 1972
the observer Deadline extended 
Bicycle registration slow 
However, Singleton did not consider the by Kathy Kelly week's work a wasted effort. He com­Observer Staff Reporter mented, "The effort to make bikeS safer is Bicycle registration will continue every always worth it.."It is this sentiment thatThursday afternoon at 319 Farley Hall, motivated the extension of the program of •.......
revealed Chris Singleton, honorary co­bike registration on a weekly basis.. " ,. ·•···chairman of the Farley Cyclers. In an effort Singleton has previously expressed ·······: .:. :.
to register as many bikes as possible, the reservations about extending the deadline. · deadline is being extended after disap­"If people don't show interest now, don't , .
pointing results from the week-long period know why they'd show it later," he said.
of registration. 
The Farley Cyclers had anticipated He does not view registration as a ·•'.•', :: .. ·······•·•· registering approximately five . hun~red guarantee against theft, saying, "Nobody · · bicycles. The number of actual registratiOns can completely !J1sure your bike's safety." totalled 160 or less than one-third of the 
Yet he does point out that registration can '. 
expected results. 
be a deterrent to a thief and, in the event of theft, registration offers positive iden­tification.
Silk to discuss "They (the students) are going to have to take some initiative on their own," stressed future ofcapitalism Singleton, "but the Farley Cyclers 
are ,.........,.,..ltJiiii""C... happy to be of service." 
Dr. Leonard S. Silk, a member of the Editorial board and financial columnist for the New York Times, will discuss "The Future of American Capitalism" at a Car­

'Review of Politics'
dinal O'Hara Memorial Lecture appearance at 3:30p.m. Monday in the auditorium of the University The October issue of the Review Science and Technology?"or' Notre Dame's Memorial of Politics is an "effort to com­Faculty examining change in Library. prehend the riddle of America," America are from the departments 
Sponsored by the College of according to its editor, Dr. Ronald of sociology , psychology, history, Business Administration, the talk Weber, associate professor of theology, English, economics and is open to the public without American studies. others. charge. Dedicated to the theme In summing up the purpose for 
: Before joining the Times in "America in Change: Reflections the issue, Weber added, "In its 1570 Silk was a senior fellow at the on the 60's and 70's," the special basic form, the question is whether Brookings Institution in 1969 and issue features essays by Univer­America has meaning and in­had been with Business Week from sity of Notre Dame faculty on tention beyond itself or is simply1954 to 1969, serving as editorial change in society, religion and its own end." page editor and chairman of the philosophy, science and Some observations from the editorial board from 1967. technology, and arts and the special issue, which will also ap­
A graduate of the University of media. The Review of Politics is pear in book form, include: 
Wisconsin, Silk received his published quarterly at Notre --" ... the small trickle of (ethnic)doctorate at Duke University in Dame, and is generally edited by movements today may turn into a 1947. He has served on the faculty Dr. M.A. Fitzsimons, professor of might river of people who will of Duke, University of Maine, history. desire and seek the partitioning of 
Simmons College, New York and Over 15 articles examine such the United States --the key to the Columbia Universities, and as issues as "Change and Diversity in survival of the United States." Dr. Ford Foundation distinguished American Community Life," Joseph W. Scott, associate visiting research professor at "Catholicism and Cultural Change professor of sociology and an­Carnegie Institute of Technology. in the 60's," and "A New Age in thropology. 
FREE CONCERT 
Saturday night ~-12 (Oct7) Architecture building steps Sorin -Howard -Morrissey 
Presents
Walsh Old College 
PROMENADE If rain: Ballroom LaFortune 
Liturgy at Howard Hall 
Saturday, Oct. 7 at Midnight Fr. Bill Toohey, C.S.C.-Celebrant Music -Chamber Ensemble 
Dr. G. Niemeyer 
Dr. T. Hommes 
Mr. C. Callahan 
·Refreshments after Mass 
mumIIIIIIUIIDUIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIhiiiiiiii\Y
Alumnae memorial 
Issue staff 

Main Church 
Night Editor: Joe Abell



Wall to be cluistened 
Sunday Masses
Ass't Night Editor: Maria 
The Class of 1954 of Saint Mary's the ceramics field. His works Gallagher College commissioned H. James have travelled throughout the Layout: Bill Brink, Marlene Paradis, Associate Professor of country on exhibit tours; he has Zloza 5:15p.m. Sat. Fr. Robert Griffin, C.S.C.
Art, Saint Mary's College, to had many one-man shows, and Day Editor: Bill Sohn 9:30a.m. Sun. Fr. Terry Lally, C.S.C.
create a ceramic wall in memory published many articles. Typists: Dianne Chermside, 10:45 a.m. Sun. Fr. Nathan Mitchellof their classmate, the late Doris Paradis is not only a fine artist, Pat Strobel, Steve Roper, 12:15 p.m. Sun. Fr. William Toohey, C.S.C.
Antognoli Clay. but a respected teacher. He has Harry Chung, Bob made training films and tapes for Barringer, Jeanne Eastely, Dedication of the completed wall art education purposes. He also Rick Meloy will take place, Sunday, October 14 initiated the Saint Mary's College Screener: Jerome Phillips 
"Evening Prayer" vespers at 4:30 p.m. Sunday Confessions at 10:30 a.m. in the new Sculpture Art Program in Rome; Night Controller: Joe 
are heard before weekday masses and from 7:00 to 7:30 Garden of Moreau Hall on the Saint organized, supervised student Wilkowski 
p.m. Mon. thru Sat. in Sacred Heart. 
Mary's campus. tours. 
-IIHIIHIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
Paradis has worked on the 
design and concept of the wall since January, 1971. During that time he experimented with several clay bodies involving color, texture and strength. He mad three miniature walls before deciding upon the present design and technique. The wall is sixty-four cubic feet in size. 
Paradis is a well-known artist in 
THE ROMA 
ITALIAN SANDWICHES PIZZA LIQUOR 
DANCING TO THE BILL NICKS TRIO (ROCK&JAZZ) 
Your Host Frank Anastasio 
FOR DELIVERIES CALL 234-3258 
219 N. MICHIGAN AVENUE DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND 



ZAGRANS' 
ZINEMA 

WEST 

prese-nts ......... . Friday October 6, at 7:00 & 10:00 in Engineering Auditorium Saturday, October 7, at 7:00 & 
10:00 in "AMERICA" in the Basement of Flenner 
Admission Only $1.00 
RATED G...BUT MAY BE TOO INTENSE 
FOR YOUNGER CHILDREN. 
Thepicture 
runs 130 minutes! ... 
Thestory 
covers 96 of the most critical hours in man's history! ... 
The suspense 
will last through your lifetime! 
A Room WISE PRODUCTION 1.!CiiA£iCRiCHtONI 
~NDRotiDA SIRAIN 
...-. 

ARlHUR Hill· DA~D WA'mE ·liES OlSON ·KAlE REID 
~Dncned br StrMf~Pty by from ttot fribw.tl by o..cted by Music; by , 
BORIS LEVEN·NELSON GIDDING. MICHAEL CRICHTON. ROBERTWISE·GIL MELLE 
1....-.s...:-mPP""-doI

~ (((& AUNIVERSALI>!CTURE 'TECHNICOLOR" PANAVISION' 
• 
Db•erver lnsir,ht 
Friday, October 6, 1972 the observer 
13 

A mellower Aquarius returns to the Dome 
by Ann Therese Darin 
Aquarius, the book peddler, came to Notre Dame Tuesday. 
:~::lll p.m. When he got out of Academic Commissioner Jim Novic's car at the Morris Inn Tuesday afternoon, it was a dif­ferent Aquarius than the one who had pilgrimaged to Notre Dame several years ago cast as the star, supporting cast and director of the first Sophomore Literary Festival. 
This Aquarius was not the George Plimpton of the politics and literary set, conqueror of armies of the night, protector of a fire on the moon. Instead the Notre Dame students were treated to Aquarius, the sheriff of Middle America Gulch. 
Ironically one of the Academic Commissioners had found a "Norman Mailer for Sheriff" button in the Student Union Press offices Tuesday afternoon and i'n the spirit of the occasion decided to wear it. However, when Mailer's associate, Suzanne, spotted it, she asked that it be put on the podium as a surprise for her devotee. 
About Suzanne 
A few words about Suzanne before we get further into the scenario: call her a traveling companion, girl Friday, whatever you will but dressed in a pair of lavendar pants, a bright purple shirt and-with painted blueberry ­toenails, she seemed the perfect 
companion for Mailer. Amethyst meet Aquarius. Suzanne, educated from Kent State with an M. A. in English, confides, "I am along in case any of the more violent sisters try to attack him for what he says, 1 can try to tackle them before they get to the stage. It throws them off-guard." 
Surprisingly despite all of Mailer's tirades against women's liberation, -Suzanne openly acknowledges her admiration of it and her belief in it. Unabashedly she tacks on to Mailer's answer on where American literature is heading, "You know, the sisters might be the next group of writers after the Jewish ones ... as soon as they get the spit out of their word­s." 
It is mystifying this Suzanne of women's lib and of the Mailer anti­lib entourage could look as soft and gentle as the Suzanne of the song, "Suzanne takes you ~down to the place by the river ..... " 
Prankster absent 
Side-by-side this Suzanne and her Aquarius came to Notre Dame Tuesday on the day that his um­peenth book, ·~t. George and the Godfather," chronicling the 1972 Democratic and Republican Conventions is being published and distributed. 
Why Notre Dame, Aquarius? 
The last time you were here the hair was a little blacker, the sun shining a little stronger in the world of Aquarius, the phrases a little more glib. Why Notre Dame? 
•'When I first came to Notre Dame four years ago, because Notre Dame is always four or five years behind the time, it was like step­ping back in 1963 or even 1962. It was a good feeling. And now being at Notre Dame, it is like being back in 1968 before Nixon. All of the kids are so potimistic and enthusiastic and full of hope. Not at all like the other campuses I've visited on this 
lecture  tour.  Rich  schools  like  
Notre Dame  never  are," he  con­ 
fesses.  

Four years ago the Fifth Dimension was singing his theme song, "Let the Sun Shine In ­Aquarius." He was lighting up American literature with his ex­capes and his pranks. 
But. today, where is the abrasive Aquarius, who threw the bench through the bar window in New York City? He is not here. 
When the famous author steps out of Novic's car, iL is affable 
Aquarius, the politician, the sheriff. Grey-tinged Afro, not the black of militancy but a softened salt-and­pepper ... a softened attitude, and blue jeans. He is down-cast. At the last school he appeared he appeared at, Macomb Community College in Illinois, he followed Tricia and Ed Cox. Newsmen tell him he jsut missed Miss U.S.A. here. He naps before the circus that night. 
H:UU p.m. --The Faculty Club -­the jeans are gone. Aquarius is now a college professor. Blue blazer, grey flanner pants, wide tie. "No, I don't think there is enough of HE!IDingway to have it last 16 weeks," replies the Harvard grad. "Yes, I have heard good things about University of Penn­sylvania English Department." Aquarius and whiskey sour. Aquarius and 'steak. Soon he is reliving the fight. "Ali and Pat­terson are in the corner and then ... " 
He leaves the meal to retreat at the,Morris Inn. Forty days in the desert before the sacrffice? Late Tuesday night as the Morris Inn har Aquarius and a Tom Colins explain one of his existential errands ... "Of course, I believe in the devil. There has to be something at the bottom of the CIA to have it have so much t-ad in­formation on everybody." 
S:HH p.m.: At Stepan Center, the auditorium is crowded. Full-house for the week of first exams. Aquarius, the sheriff, ascends the podium and begins reading from the good book, the book of judgement, "St. George and the Godfather." Is Aquarius ap­prehensive about crowds? Why does he always excerpt instead of ad-lib or philosophize? 
The audience has come to be amused. "I am going to vote for George Abraham Lincoln Gary 
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF LANSING 
Cordially Invites You to 
A PRE-GAME ALUMNI RECEPTION Friday evening, October 6, 1972 
9:00p.m.-1:00a.m. THE PRETZEL BELL RESTAURANT 
1020 Trowbridge Road East lansing, Michigan (Adjacent to the M.S.U. campus 
Featuring 
Good Company Appearances byThe "old school songs" and special 
NO officials 

live Music 
The Notre Dame cheerleaders Cash bars 
Admission price is' Sl.OO per person. Tickets will be sold at the door. 
Cooper McGovern." The crowd laughs. "Pat Nixon is like a Header's 'Digest editor attacking a paragraph." Laughter. "I believe in abortion, but not con­traception." Nothing. No shouting, no clapping, no yawning. Amazing in the school which two years earlier warred against Ti­Grace Atkinson. 
Podium-slurring is not Aquarius's bag. He mumbles a Marshall McLuhanism about the medium being the message and exits to the Flanner Pit. 
Even in Flanner, however, Aquarius is still selling. While not the book, now it is McGovern, and anti-war. But, curiously, not literature. "How did you get to be a great writer?" Silence. "Do you consider yourself a great writer?'' "No ... only very good. Tom Wolfe? He is a 380 percent twerp." 
Q-A at Flanner 

He specifically asked for the session at Flanner after the speech. "You can't really give good answers from the podium, and you can't have an exchange with the questionner," he remarked. Amid 100 students, Aquarius is in his glory. They want .t?im to go drinking at Corby's. But, ht-must move on to Chicago and thelt·.to Florida. 
Thi ..pay isn't dawning for AquariuS. It is almost dead. He is intrigued with politics. "Would you have run from the Abzug, Fitz­ryan district?'' ".Definitely, except four ex-wives and seven children are expensive. I can't afford it." 
Q: "Is Mailer interested in anytlling else besides Aquarius ... any thing ... any hopes, dreams. people, places?" A: "Let it ride. Let it ride." 



PROMENADE 
Eight piece jazz,~rock group 
St. Nary's Snack Shop 9p.m.-1a.m. Friday, Oct. 6 
.Admission .25 
ANYTHING WRONG WITH: 
bistening to a couple of fantastic bands? 
Finding someone to dance to them with? 
I 

[).rinking anything you can think of? .Staying up late and missing Carson one or two nights a ,week? 
So Now You Know Where You're At 

SHULAS 
2802 U. S. 31 N. (In Michigan) 616 683-4350 


THE GUESS WHO 
plus: White Trash with Jerry LaCroix 
HOMECOMING CONCERT October 14 at 8:30 
Hear their hits: "These Eyes," "laughin " "Undun," "No time," "American Woman," "R,ain Dal')ce," and more 
Some Good Seats Still Availabl 
CHAIR SEATS­$5.50 BL~ACHERS -----$3.00 
Tickets on sale at Student Union Ticket Office, 3rd floor LaFortune (11:30 • 1:00, 3-5) and the ACC Ticket Office 9-5). 
"Are you a great writer(' "No, only a very good one." 

14' the observer Friday, October 6, 1972 

Beer can-vention satisfies thirsty collectors 
So-uth Bend's Newest 
~ 
' 
•. { 
( 
~ 
~ 
~ 
( 
~ 
t -'' , 
C·
........__ 
by Andrew H. Malcolm 
(c) 1972 New York Times 
Lake Geneva, Wis.-Doctors and mechanics and housewives and teenagers -some 600 in all ­gathered here last weekend for a very special reason. Their passion is empty beer cans. 
The men, and women, were the Beer Can Collectors of America and they met at the Play Club in this resort community, 75 miles north of Chicago, for their annual convention, a three-day orgy of trading that saw grown men sweat profusely in hard bargaining for an empty beer can. 
"This is the fastest growing collecting hobby in the country," said one of the group's officers as he rushed off to make a deal. 
The B.C.C.A., as it is af­fectionately known to members, has its own emblem (a hand reaching for a beer can on a map of the United States), its own button, newsletter, mug, and windshield sticker, as well as some voluntary beer can trading guidelines to combat inflation, which has pushed the value of a 1930's beer can all the way up to 10 or more newer cans. 
Soon the group will publish a 
complete listing of all 12,000 
American beer cans, including 
forgotten brews like Jaguar, 
Buccaneer, Bullfrog and Olde 
Frothingslosh. 
The collectors came from 
Colorado, Canada and Connecticut 
and big and small towns in bet­
ween. They came in campers, 
Cadillacs and Camarros. But they 
had one thing in common: every 
single can was packed tight with 
empty beer cans. 
These were the "traders," the 
duplicate or expendable cans used 
to barter for other cans, the 
missing link is an individual's 
cherished collection. 
Some members arrived here two 
days early eager to get first crack 
at any good trade. Even before 
registering swarms of collectors 
gathered around a new arrival's 
car trunk to haggle good 
naturedly. 
"You must be kidding," said one 
collector, "one current can for an 
obsolete? I get get three for this 
one easy." They settled on two, 
but not before each man said he 
was being taken. 
Beer can collecting probably began Jan.. 25, 1935, the day af_ter the Gottfnend Krueger Brewmg 
~o. in Newark, N.J., turned out the ·in the bartering and the friends you 
frrst beer can. For years, collecting was done only by isolated individuals -until 1970, the year after beer cans began out­selling beer bottles, when two St. Louis brothers discovered they had 
the same hobby. 
Fund-raising 
'rumperstickers' are ripped off 
by Anthony Abowd Eight hundred "Rumper Stickers" sold by the cheerleaders to raise traveling funds were stolen 
at  the  Stepan  Center  rally  last  
Friday night.  
The  theft,  which  represents  

four hundred dollars of possible income for the cheerleaders is a serious blow to the cheerleaders' fund raising efforts, according to Cheerleader Charlie Morrison. 
"This is a really bad blow for · us," Morrison said. "The money we raise is used to cover our travel expenses. Right now it looks like we won't be able to go to the USC game because of the theft." 
The stickers were set briefly by I the side of the stage in Stepan center before they disappeared. 
"It looks like someone was bent on stealing them" Morrison said. "I can't imagine why. If we see a whole lot of them we'll know that ' we didn't sell them." 
Morrison said he is willing to take the stickers back, with no questions asked, if the thief calls his room, 20 Holy Cross, at 3122. 
-----...... --------·-· ·-·.::~:...·..: --.-=-..:.... ·~ 
They formed the B.C.C.A. <P.O. Box 9104, St. Louis, Mo. 63117),which grew like a fine head of beer. And thus began the latest chapter in the American mania for collecting. There are now 609 members, not counting tolerant spouses, in 35 states and five countries. Last year about 225 people met in St. Louis. Next year's convention will be held in Cincinnati. 
Like this year's, it will have a special commemorative beer can (empty) and many different types of free beer in cans (full). 
Religiously, each can will be opened on the bottom to preserve its appearance on the display shelves that line countless collector's basements, which are specilally dehumidified to combat that dreaded enemy -rust. 
There will be another Miss Beer Can, another bus tour of local taverns and a goodly supply of beer can collector shirts, jackets, cufflinks and charms. Most im­portant, however, will be the constant trading that continues into the wee hours of each morning when, if one man has emptied a few too many beer cans, a sober collector can make some good trades. 
"There is no real value in the 
cans" noted Roger Johnson of Buffalo Grove, Ill., "The value is 
make while trading." 
Johnson  stood  next  to  Herb  
Elliott  a  tool  maker  from  
Daniel;on,  Conn.  They  have  

traded by mail for two years but had only met moments before, and 

RIVER PARK 
..................... 
~IJ_!I_~~~~A A~~!.~T.30T~ 
2 DISNEY HITS 
~~ TECIIIICILlll ® 
""'-iJ!IlliiUISIA IIISilillJTUI CD. INC ©11lll 11111 ilAI"*'.. 
PLUS Hit No. 2 
Dean Jones Joe Flynn Shirley Duncan James Gregory 
"$1 ,000,000.00 
DUCK" 
Phone 288-8.488 · for times and directions 
seemed to be lifelong friends already. Like most collectors, both men spend about five hours a week and 200 dollars a year on their hobby. "It's just a deviation from the regular grind," said one collector. 
One man's trash is another man's treasure. So, many collectors walk country roads or visit municipal dumps or recycling centers looking for cans. Kenneth Heistand, a truck driver, takes his coffee breaks by rummaging through roadside trash barrels. "Interstate highways are the best," he said. 
Mrs. Tobi Harms of Peoria, Ill., is a new collector, despite her husband's protests. "Have you ever looked closely at a beer can," she asked. "They really are beautiful, so colorful and shiny. And no two brands look alike." 
Depending on a collector's can count he or she is an ''Apprentice Brewer" (two stars), "H Jour­neyman Brewer" <three) "Brewmaster" (four) or "Grand 
Brewmaster" (five stars). 
...AND EVERYTHING IS "NOW" APPARil 
YOU'LL ALSO FIND 
the most liberal way to buy ... wear and enjoy your apparel now and pay one­
third in January, one-third in February and one-third in March. You pay no 
service or carrying charges of any kind. Stop in. Soon 


YOU'LL FIND: 
FLARES JEANS SWEATERS BELTS SHOES SHIRTS OUTERCOATS JACKETS SPORTCOATS SUfTS 
"But I can't get a head • • • II 
This was the trading scene at the Playboy Hotel where the Beer Can Collectors of America met last weekend for their annual convention. Cans with tops still secure have been opened from the bottom (New York Times photo). 
ECKANKER. 

Ancient Sciences of Soul Travel New Concepts in God-Consciousness Talks at 2 pm Sun. Oct. 8 In the library auditorium 
110¥2 N. Main 

THE RED DOOR CLUB BEER * WINE * LIQUOR 
Come down and watch the game Saturday. 
z 
Memberships Available ~ 
ANB :;­
OPEN 1 1om to 3om 
Washington 

ATTENTION! N·D· SENIORS! RETURN PROOFS FOR THE YEARBOOK 2-C LA FORTUNE TUESDAY, OCT· 10 11-3 
this is the final deadline questions, call 7085 between 11-3 
ND-SMC theatre bows with Goldman's Lion in Winter' 
by L. Frank Devine 
The ND-SMC Theatre opens its 1972-73 season 
tonight at 8:30 with the James Goldman's The 
Lion In Winter at O'Laughlin. 
The Lion In Winter opened in New York during 
the spring of 1966 to a warm critical reception, 
but consistently empty houses. It closed that 
same spring after just ninety-two performances. Despite its financial failure, Lion garnered a 
position in the Ten Best Plays of1966. · 
familiar characters 
The major characters in Lion In Winter aren't 
strangers to those who follow contemporary 
theater. It's the third play about England's King 
Henry II to fascinate American theatergoers 
during the past forty years. 
The first two plays, T .S. Eliot's Murder in the 
Cathedral, and Jean Anouilh's Becket dealt with 
the turbulent relationship of Henry and Thomas 
a Becket, once a close friend, and then an arch 
rival archbishop of Canterbury. Becket fell 
victim to the swords of the king's retainers and 
was martyred in the Canterbury Cathedral in 
1170. 
The Lion In Winter concerns a much older 
Henry. Goldman had taken the story of how 
Henry's sons vied for his throne during his 
declining years and placed it it in the imaginary 
setting of Henry's palace during the Christmas 
of 1183. 
Henry's wife, Eleanor of Aquataine, was the 
tormer wife of France's Louis VII. Henry 
became embroiled in war with Louis VII and his 
successor, Philip II. 
Philip's involvement with Henry's family 
affairs brings him into The Lion In Winter. 
Eleanor and Henry's sons conspired to over­
t~row the King intermittently, beginning in 1173. 
Then· Eleanor led her sons against enry in 1173, 
the King imprisoned her in Salisbury Castle 
where she remained until his death. 
Henry's sons 
The sons of Henry and Eleanor are familiar to 
readers of Shakespeare or afficinados of old 
Errol Flynn films. 
The eldest son, who managed to gain his 
father's throne first was the famous Richard the 
Lion Heart. Richard, who is known as a great 
warrior, started early, waging war against his 
Susan Maher is Alais, the king's young mistress
father at age sixteen. 
The couple's second son, Geoffrey became 
duke of Brittany through marriage. Although 
Geoffrey had worked with his mother and older 
brother to execute the 1173 coup, he spent much 
of the rest of his life attempting to win territory 
form Richard. Geoffrey died in Paris while 
attempting to form an alliance with the King of 
France against his brother. 
The third participant in the sibling rivalry was 
the infamous John. Although he was Henry's 
favorite, John was unable to take the throne upon 
his father's death. Instead, John waited until 
Richard was away on crusade and simply took 
over his brother's power. John finally won the 
king's crown as well as the power when Richard 
died. 
opens tonight 
Tonight's performance of The Lion In Winter 
opens on England's prime example of domestic 
tranquility as they gather ten years after the 
first aborted coup and six years before Henry's 
death. 
Charles Ballinger's production of The Lion In 
Winter will continue Saturday evening, and 
reopen next Thursday, Friday, and Saturday 
evenings, October 12, 13, 14. Curtain time for all 
performances is 8:30. 
Guaranteed student loan info 
Emergency legislation, passed State regulations.) The allowable full-time study. Borrowing under 
on August 19, 1972, and effective maximum is $7,500. this program is allowed if the 
until March 1, 1973, makes it If the student's adjusted family student is enrolled or accepted for 
possible for lenders to make loans income is less than $15,000 per enrollment at least half-time: 
under the same regulations that year, the Federal Government will -in an eligible college, univer­
governed the Guaranteed Student pay the interest on the loan while sity, or hospital school of nursing
Loan Program prior to June 30, he is attending school and until the <including many foreign schools)
1972. beginning of the repayment period. as an undergraduate or graduate 
The program enables students to The repayment period begins student. 
borrow money directly from a between 9 and 12 months after -in an approved vocational, 
bank, credit union, savings and leaving school or complete your technical, trade, business, or home 
loan association or other par­course of study. study school. 
ticpating lender. The loan is Students may normally take 5 to An affidavit declaring that the 
guaranteed by a State or private 10 years to repay the loan. loan will be used only for education 
nonprofit guarantee agency or However, the minimum monthly purposes is required. This af­
insured by the Federal Govern­payment of $30 may reduce the fidavit <OE Form 1260) must be 
ment. repayment period, depending upon notarized or signed by a person 
Students may borrow up to a the size of your loan. Repayment having the authority to administer 
maximum of $1,500 per academic may be deferred for up to 3 years oaths or affirmations. 
year. (In some States the while for service in the military, Further information is available 
maximum is $1,000 per academic Peace Corps, or VISTA; or for any at Notre Dame's office of financial 
year and lenders must adhere to period that the student returns to .aid. 



Friday, October 6, 1972 the observer 
15 


WANTED 

Wanted: secretary, must type and take shorthand. 6-12 hours per week. Apply OBSERVER, salary negoitable. 
Need six copies of the play "The Mouse That Roared." Call Art 8545. 
DESPERATE: Need 4 gen. Ad. Pitt tickets, Tricia 2184. 
Want 5 gen adm. tix tor Mis~ri or T.C.U. 8918. 
Desperatly need tickets to Texas Christian game. Call 3377, please. 
Forming group -need musicians with equipment, call Jim 1520. 
Ride needed for two (2) to Michigan State game. Call Dave 7683. 
Need ride to Dubuque low or Freeport Illinois area, Oct. 13 or any othet weekend. Share ex­penses. Call Scott. 3364. 
Have 2 Missouri gen adm tix -will trade for . 2 Pitt tix -call Dan, 6154. 
Needed 2-3 Missouri or TCU tickets, call Karl 1777. 
Roommate Needed, Notre Dame apts, apt. 4-B, 832 Notre Dame Ave. Call 234·0449. 
Need immediatly 2 gen. ad. TCU tix, call Frank 1943. 
3 guys need ride to MILWAUKEE this weekend. Please call Larry or Paul at 8276 or Rick at 8284. 
Babysitter. 3 days a week. 15-20 hours per week. Daytime. Call Prot. Huckleberry, 7586 or 233­2089. 
Need ride to Mich State Fri., Oct. 6; return Sun. Will share driving and expenses. Call Bob 8601. 
Need two-four general admission tix for Missouri. Art . 1026. 
Wanted: "FOUR FLAMINGOS" 
Need four general admission 
Pittsburgh tickets. Call Dave at 
6771. 
Need 3 Missouri and 4 TCU tix Rich 1314. 
FOR SALE 

Must sell: 10v2 Firebird 400, excellent condition, extremely low mileage, air, AM-FM, 4-on· floor,++. Must drive, see. $2600 or best offer. Call 6588 or 272-6225. 
For  sale:  66  VW  Bug,  local  
transportation.  Call  Dave,  232­ 
6882.  

For Sale 1969 Triumph GT6+, 
red,  six  cylinder, 4-speed,  very  
good  condition  $1,650.  Call  
anytime after 5, 289-1794.  

For sale, 1964 VW, good running condition, $225 call 255-7751 after 5:00. 
For Sale: gibson electric guitar. Call 283-1620. 
CMC S-track car tape player, 3000, speakers included, $30.00. Tom 8636, Paul 7861. 
1 small refrig., good condition. 75.00, 1 RCA 23" color T.V., 175.00. Call Jim 234-8936. 
Panasonic car stereo tape player, $30. Call 6272. 
Electric combo organ W-amp, $300. Must sell. Ca II 6272. 
For sale: 1966 Ducati motorcycle 250 cc. under 7000 mi., $275. A· frame backpack $10. Double bed mattress & spring, $10. Call Hal . 683-2997. 
For sale: "ONE USED FLAMINGO" 
For sale: 1971 Suzuki 500 w-2 he I m ets, $600 or best offer, call Tom 232-0659. 
1969 Cortina G.T. Low mileage, 
good condition. Call Elkhart 264­4416. 
1965 VW bus, runs great, $450, John 8504. 
FOR RENT 

Downstairs apt., kitchenette, furnished, close to NO. Call 272­6174 am or after 4 pm. 
For rent: 828 E. Wayne Str,newly decorated 7 room house. Drive-in garage. $120.00monthly. Call 233­4425. 
One bedroom apt. utilities paid, washer & dryer. Call after 6:30 pm, 232-9448. 
LOST 

Lost: keys on wooden disk. Call Jan, 6953. 
Lost: NO ring, white gold PJL '73, library, Paul 287-3107. 
Lost: black trifold wallet. Reward. Ray Dandrea, 253 Sorin ­8534. 
Lost: Iight brown wallet, all I D Reward, steve 1059. 
Lost: "ONE PET FLAMINGO" 
Lost: pr. of brown glasses, vicinity of main quad. REWARD. Return: 213 St. Joe Hall 
Wallet lost at Chicago concert. Reward. Call Bob 1439. 

Lost: black wallet. Keep the money. Please return the rest, Jimmy Hayes 234-8936. 
PERSONALS 

"DEAR FLAMINGO, PLEASE COME HOME, ALL IS FORGIVEN" 
Whistle with the dwarves, call Mary Beth 5322. 
To N.K. From Keokuk: Happy Birthday! 
G.W. 
NOTICES 

ATTENTION CALIFORNIA STUDENTS California Club emergency organizational meeting: to 
' discuss Christmas vacation flight. 
Today 3:30pm, Howard Chapel. If interested but unable to make it, call Tony Mol ina 8282, 409 Howard. 
There will be a Graduate Student Union meeting today. 127 N.S.H. 12 noon. 
Those who feel they have psychic abilities & are interested in participating in parapsychology experiment, contact Gil, 1067. 
Articles for the NOTRE DAME SCIENCE QUARTERLY should be submitted Monday evening, 7:30-10:00, in 327 NSH or call 7838. 
Off campus party by the gaper, 1 Friday Oct 6, go right on Corby for two blocks, 814 Turnock. ' 
Washington Post, NY times & more on Sun. at Pandora's Books, SB & NO Aves. 
Typing Experienced in disser. lations essays, term papers. Arlene Spitz 232·9061. 
All those NO seniors who had their yearbook photographs taken last month are requested to fill out an activities card in the yearbook office (4th floor LaFortune) between 11-3 by Friday, October 
6. 
All alumni of Brother Rice high school (Chicago) please contact Jim Kresse: 400 Stanford -8725. 
Junior League Thrift Shop over 30,000 new & used items -fur­niture, clothing, housewares, etc. Including 800 new articles of men's clothing. Fieldhouse . A.C.C. Sat. Oct. 7 8:30a.m. to 5:30 p.m. 
Do you need someone to iron clothes, mend, embroider, bake, cook or clean? Call Missy 5786. 
Grad school a11d job application photos taken 12-1 daily in off­campus office. For more info call 283-8491 between 12-1. 
Student discounts on new Westinghouse Compact Refrigerators. Spacious 4.4cu. ft. capacity, factory warranty, immediate delivery. Call now! Wynne's Refrigeration Co. 234­0578. 
FACULTY FOR NIXON. A friendly gathering, 6:00 pm, October 12, 1972. University Club (loungel. For information con· tact .Prof. V. Vuckovic, Depart· ment of Mathematics. 
Request a seat for Europe now! We're filling fast. Call Clark 283­8810, British Overseas Airways Corp.---------­
ACTION HAS JOBS Notre Dame juniors and seniors, the Peace Corps and Vista recruiters will be on campus October 9-13, with tables in the Library concourse all week, the Placement office on Thursday and the Architecture building on Thursday and Friday. If you are looking for the best way to go in the future and will have a degree or high skill in engineering, ar­chitecture, business, education or math and general science, visit the ACTION recruiters. There is a place for you in the world. 
I 
i 
j 
I 
J 
l 
~ 
l ~ 

-

.. 
• 

16 the observer Friday, October 6, 1972 
Irish meet angry Spartans on TV 

by Vic Dorr ''This is a fine Notre Dame 
Tomorrow afternoon, at 12:50 p.m., Notre Dame's 1972 football team will come,?f age. 
The Irish will square off against the Spartans of Michigan State in·a nationally televised contest in East Lansing, and the game looms as a pivotal one for the ..JM:Cll-youthful ND squad. 
Notre Dame.Mkes a 2-o record-and a n...rtber-seven national ranking---into the game. They will be facing an MSU team that has won but one of three games and was soundly beaten by Southern Cal last Saturday. But ND coach Ara Parseghian isn't taking the 38th renewal of this fabled series lightly. 
"Our game with Michigan State is always difficult," said Par­seghian. "It's a traditional game and we know they're going to giv~ . us a tough time in East Lansing." 
And State's home field edge is an advantage that can't be ignored. A sellout crowd of 76 ooo is assured in Spartan Stadiu~---where Notre Dame has won but one game .since 1949--and many of the Msu· faM.... 
have been waiting for the annual 
matchup with Notre Dame since last July. Tonight, the Michigan State student body will hold a pep rally---the school's second in five years---and an attendance of 10 ooo is expected. ' 
A main figure in this pre-game build up will be Duffy Daugherty the Spartans' head coach: Daugherty hasn't beaten ND since his 21-17 upset of 1968, and he has the Spartan players and fans primed for tomorrow's game. But Duffy, though an optimist, is not underestimating Notre Dame. 
team." he said. "They run well and 
pass well and have a finely con­ceived offense in general. And they have a typical Notre Dame defense. They're big, strong, and agile. Overall, it's probably the best team they've had since 1966. 
"Beating Notre Dame will be a tough task---especially with Michigan coming up next week and after the Southern Cal game. But we're not discouraged. We know we've got to get our offensive at­tack going, and if we do that I think we can have a respectable season." 
Duffy has had good reason to complain about his offense. The Spartans have yet to find the right execution for their new wishbone attack, and last week against Southern Cal they committed nine turnovers. 
:"~_en you ,don't execute," h_e satd_. It doesn t make,a damn. bit of difference what yo~ re runn~ng. It's a. problem of gettm,g the right guys m there. We haven t found the 
Jv n e tmen 
' 

post shutout 
Sweeping all nine matches in straight sets, Notre Dame's junior varsity tennis team romped to a 9-o victory over Tri-State Thursday at Notre [)arne. 
Chris Amato, Barry Andrews, Mike O'Donnell, Bill Sturm, Pat Murphy and Bill Sierks recorded singles victories for the Irish while the teams of Bob Johnson-Amato, Dave Wheaton -Mark Peterson and Sturm -Chip Turner posted doubles wins. 



The Irish Eye 
=============================~==~=~=~:::::~:::::::~:::::::::::::::::~=:=~=~====:=:=:=:=:::::::::::::::::::::= Fo o t ba II picks 
It's difficult for Notre Dame fans but, if you can think about a college football game this weekend other than the all-important encounter bet­ween the Fighting Irish and Michigan State Saturday afternoon in East Lansing, there promise to be some dandies on tap across the country. \ The Notre Dame -Michigan State contest will be televised nationally 
,~ 
and rates as the top game in the midwest. Out on the west coast, 
I, however, interest will center on the battle of unbeatens taking place in Palo Alto, where Stanford hosts the number-one ranked Trojans of Southern Cal. 

In the deep south, Mississippi and Auburn clash in a key Southeastern Conference game while, in the Sunshine State, Florida and Florida State engage in their annual rivalry. 
Other key games this weekend include Alabama vs Georgia, Arkansas vs. Texas Christian and U.C.L.A. vs. Arizona. 
According to the lwas of progression, the Irish Eye ought to pick 13 winners this week, after tabbing 11 the first two weeks of the year and 12 on the next two weekends. Ifonly those laws were applicable! 
Last week's upset of the week pick, Navy over Boston College, was also 

correct, boosting the totals in that department to three right in four tries. With hopes for continued improvement, here are this week's selections: Notre Dame over Michigan State --Even though Duffy Daugherty's a 
son of the old sod, the Leprechauns will be sitting on the Fighting Irish side of Spartan Stadium, where they belong. Alabama over Georgia---Bear's got hisself another good ol' bunch of boys down there at 'Barna. Air Force Academy over Colorado State ---The high-flying Falcons can boost their record to 4-0 with a win over their intrastate rival. ( Tulane over Pittsburgh ---The Panthers will come into Notre Dame Stadium with an 0-5 record. 
l' 
\'. 
Michigan over Navy ---Some day, somebody ought to explain why schools like Navy play schools like Michigan (and Notre Dame). Ohio State over California ---The Buckeyes make what they hope will be their first trip to the West Coast this season. Miami <Fla.) over Baylor--Miami has lost its first two games to good ball clubs. Baylor doesn't fall into that category. Iowa over Purdue ---The injury-hit Boilermakers still haven't put everything together. 

Arkansas over Texas Christian ---Arkansas isn't as strong as Razor­back fans thought it would be, but the Hogs ought to be tough enough to whip the Horned Frogs. 
U.C.L.A. over Arizona---Does anyone remember that the Bruins were 2-7-1 in 1971? 
-·;.. 
.\. Southern Cal over Stanford ---The number-one ranked Trojans are considered the favorites in this pairing of unbeatens. 

Florida State over Florida --If the Gators could go 4-7 with John Reaves and Carlos Alvarez, think what depths they can sink to without them. 
Penn State over Illinois --The Nittany Lions are due to explode after a couple of sub-par weeks. 
Oklahoma State over Missouri -With the Cowboys, Nebraska, Notre Dame and Colorado coming up on successive weekends, Mizzou appears ready to embark on a losing streak. 
Upset of the Week: Mississippi over Auburn -Last Saturday, Auburn shocked fourth­ranked Tennessee. This weekend, it's the Tigers who are in for a sur­prise. 
LastWeek: 12of15 .800 Season'sPct.: 46of60 .767 
right combination of backfield people who will block as well as 
run." 
In his search for consistency on offense, the MSU coach has con­sidered several key changes for tomorrow's game. Possibly, he said, he will replace senior quarterback George Mihaiu with junior Mark Neisen, a defensive halfback who has never started a varsity game at quarterback. And James Bond, a 5-10, 188-pounder, 

will  be moved  from  fullback  to  
halfback.  
If  Daughterty's  offensive  

changes work, the Spartans will offer the Irish defense one of its stiffest challenges of the season. Tight end Billy Joe Dupree gives the Spartans a first-class receiving threat, and, when teamed with the likes of guard Joe DeLamielleure, a powerful offensive line as well. . "~upr~~·" said Coach P~r­seghmn,. IS one of the outstan<;fing players m the. countr~. He g1ves them an ef~ecttve pas~mg ga~~ to 
. go along With thetr w1shbone. 
"Difficulties in execution have preve~ted_ the MSU of~ense frol!l reachmg 1ts full potential yet th1s 
sea~n, but the Spartan defense 
hasn t had a~y such problems. Led by All-Amencan s~fety ~rad Van Pelt, and returnmg s1x other 

' starters from 1971, the MSU defenders have drawn plenty of praise from their coach-even after last wee.k's 51-6 defeat. 
"I thmk our defense played great,'.' he said, "a!ld I was even mo~e Impressed wtth them a~ter seemg the Southern Cal mov1es. 

DANGER -PROCEED AT YOUR OWN RISK • 

Some of our guys outstanding plays."  made  really  
Daugherty heavily on  will his  be relying outstanding  

,----------------------------, 








OBSERVER 
SPORTS 
ND to host Cent. Col/. tennis play 
Ascending tennis power Cin-Fallon lost his top three players cinnati, with 1971 singlE:'s champion from last year's 16-3 squad, he wasDefending ' champion Notre John Peckskamp returning, ap-hopeful about the three-day series. 
Dame will host the third annual pears to be the tourney favorite. "I am rather impressed with theCentral Collegiate Tennis However, Indiana State has added fighting for positions that has gone Championships today, Saturday 1971 state high school champion on this fall," he explained, "There

and Sunday at the Irish courts Webb Hayne to its already for-is great depth and we're evenlybehind the ACC. 

midable squad and Iowa, coming balanced right down the line."
Other midwestern teams off a sparkling 15-5 record last Coach Fallon noted that he doescompeting in the round robin event 

year, is also a challenger for the not have the top one-two punch of a are Cincinnati, Indiana State, Iowa cup. Purdue and the Irish have -year ago, but he. added that he 

Brandon Walsh will lead the Irish tennis team in defense of its Central )Collegiate Tennis Tournament title this weekend on the Irish courts. 
and Purdue. This is the first year 

similar problems, both fielding
that the tourney will be held in the 

young, untested teams this
fall: the Irish winning the title last 

weekend.
spring at Ball State. 
Although ND Coach Tom 

defensive players tomorrow af­ternoon, and their challenge will be a big one for Tom Clements and the Irish offense. And MSU has the offensive talent themselves to give the ND defense a very long af­ternoon. Vocally, the Spartan Stadium crowd will be the most rabid "away" crowd to face the Irish this year. 
But still there is confidence in the ND camp. "I've been pleased with the leadership and with the spirit that this team has shown," said Parseghian. "We're united by a common cause--we're fighting for one thing. I saw it during spring drills, and I've· seen it again during fall workouts. Hopefully, this spirit will continue throughout the 1972 season." 
hoped th~ ~nthusi~sm an,d depth characteristic of this years squad would make for a respectable showing. Sophomore Chris Kane is the number one man heading into the meet, ahead of juniors Mark Reilly and Brandon Walsh. Senior captain Rod Schefter, sophomore John Carrico and freshman· Paul Reilly round out ND's top six players. The doubles pairings are Kane and Schefter, Walsh and 
Carrico, and brothers.  the two  Reilly  
Each match  consists  of  six  

singles and three doubles com­petitions and the schedule is as follows: First Session: Friday 2:00 P.M. Indiana State vs Purdue Cincinnate vs Iowa Notre Dame jvs bye 
Second Session: Saturday 9:00 A.M. 
Purdue vs Iowa Indiana State vs Notre Dame Cincinnati vs bye 
Third Session: Saturday 2:00 P.M. 
1Iowa vs Notre Dame Purdue vs Cincinnati Indiana State vs bye 
Fourth Session: Sunday 9:00 A.M. Notre Dame vs Cincinnati Iowa vs Indiana State Purdue vs bye 
Fifth Session: Sunday 2:00P.M. Cincinnati vs Indiana State Notre Dame vs Purdue 
Iowa vs bye 







