On The Inside 
Trend to off-campus living ... 7 
Clarke gets ax from H-man ...page J 
VOL. VII No. 59 


l I 
~ 
serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 

Thursday, December 7, 1972 
Third stage problem solved 


Last Apollo flight heads for moon 
by John Noble Wilford 

(C) 1972 New York Times News Service 
•'ape Kennedy, Dec. 7--Apollo 17 ''i:l~tl'd off toward the moon this morning, its fi{'ry exhaust turning night into day, in a delay<!d though spectacular beginning of the nation's last olanned lunar mission. 
The lift-off came at 12:33 a.m. after a delay of more than two hous because of trouble in the third stage of the Saturn 5 rocket. A computer command had halted the countdown just 30 seconds before the originally scheduled lift-off time. 
As the mammoth white moonship rose ponderously into the dark, starry night red-orange flames rushed out of its tail and its explosive might sent tremors through the sandy soil for miles around. It was the first nightime launching of American Astronauts, and some half a million spectators stood in awe of the 6.5 million pound spaceship arcing out over the Atlantic Ocean. 
The Crew of Apollo 17 --Capt. Eugene A. C'ernan and Commander Ronald E. Evans of the Navy and Dr. Harrison S. Schmitt, a geologist --were strapped into the cone shaped capsule atop the Saturn 5. 
Near moon by Sunday 
About 12 minutes after lift-off, the astronauts rose the spacecraft into an orbit more than 100 miles above the earth, their troubles on the launching pad far behind them. 
The delay in the mission came on the elctronic orders of a computer system that monitors and controls all spaceship operations during the final three minutes and seven seconds of the countdown. The terminal countdown sequencer, as the computer is called, is programmed to stop the launch if it senses any malfunction. A few minutes after the scheduled lift-off, which was to have been at 9:53 p.m. a spokesman for the national aeronautics and space administration announced that the oxygen tank had failed to be pressurized at the proper time. 
Launch controllers quickly pressurized the tank through manual switching. But, by the. by then, the computer's timing was trhouwn off and it ordered the shutdown. 
Reaches 1 00-mile orbit 
After the launch, the astronauts are expected to ride their spaceship into orbit more than 100 miles above the earth. After two complete turns around the world, they are to rocket out of near-earth orbit and begin the voyage out to the moon. 
On Sunday, at 12:43 p.m., Apollo 17 is scheduled to reach the moon, rocket into an orbit and prepare for the last landing on that cratered world for years to come. 
To get to Apollo 17's planned landing site shortly after sunrise near the moon's Sea of Serenity made it necessary to launch the mission at night. Any launching time is calculated by de~iding when is the most desirable time for a lunar landing and then working backward through the many steps required to get there . Mission planners chose an early-morning landing on the moon because, with the sun low on the horizon and the lighting contrasts better, it is easier for the astronauts to steer the lunar module to the touchdown. It is also better for photography on the moon. 
Apollo 17, if all continues to go well, would be the nation's sixth landing of men on the Moon and the 11th manned mission of the Apollo project. Cernan and Schmitt plan to land their lunar module, named Challenger, in a narrow valley just beyond the southeastern rim of the Sea · of Serenity. The site is called Taurus-Littro~; after the Taurus mountains and the Lit­trow crater in the area of Apollo 17's target. The landing is scheduled for 2:54 
p.m. next monday, Dec. 11. 


Evans to experiment 
While they are exploring the sur;ace during the 75-hour visit, Evans is to pilot the command ship, America, in Lunar orbit. He is expected to be busy operating a number of remote-sensing experiments aimed at learning the nature of the Moon's subsurface structure, prospecting for undergrouna water. if any, and deter­mining the surface chemistry over a broad area. 
The planned 12 day and 16 hour mission, 
eosting $450 million, is. scheduled to e nd with a splashdown in the PacificOcean at 2:24p.m. Dec. 19. Although the splash­down will mark the end of an area of space exploration, Cernan likes to describe the Mission as the ·•conclusion of the begm­ning." 
No American astronaut will be going to the moon for the rest of this decade, perhaps not for years after that. But next year three crew of astronauts plan to live and work as long as 56 days at a time in the Earth-orbiting laboratory called Skylab. 
Then, in 1975, American astronauts are 

scheduled  to  fly  a  modified  Apollo  
spacecraft  to  a  rendezvous and  link-up  
(continued  on  page 4)  

Criticizes Nixon 

Schmitz sees U.S. near totalitarianism 
by Don White Staff Reporter 

Republican Congressman John G. Sch­mitz described what he calls the "Rosad to l!l84" before a crowd of over 200 last night. lie cited George Orwell's 1984, where "truth is falsehood, love is hate, peace is war. an 'Alice in Wonderland' world ... this is what we're moving toward." 
The California congressman struck out at a number of things he considered to be milestones of totalitarianism that could be looked for. These included the Vietnam war. President Nixon's trips to Russia and C'hina. abortion, revenue-sharing, in­flation. gun registration, and the issue of "ecology vs. energy." 
Schmitz stated that "tyrants who always looked for mischievious foreign wars to keep people's minds off the home front" were a move toward totalitarianism. "You probably thought I would defend the war, but I won't because it's not a war against communism. If we wanted to fight a war against communism, we could go ninty miles off the Florida coast. Instead, we continue to aid the enemy by providing him with the sinews of war." 
USSR got US help 
Schmitz, 1972 American Independant Party candidate for President, explained this by citing a survey that estimated 90 to 95 per cent of Soviet military technology came from the U.S. or NATO allies. "They (Russia l are only in the ball game because we keep them there. Our leaders tell us that we are number two to the Soviets militarily. It is embarassing to be number two to a country that can't even build its own trucks." 
He said that the same trucks blown up on the Ho Chi Minh Trail in Vietnam were built in America, Soviet factories by by American technicians and with American know-how. On 36 square mile factory being built in the Soviet Union now by the Ford Motor Company will produce more trucks than all the other factories in the world when it is completed, he said. 

Sch-mitz speaking in the Library Auditorium claimed that Nixon further perpetrated the war with his recent trade agreements with Russia. Part of the agreements, he said, concerned supplying the Russians with highly specialized computer technology. "The surface-to-air missles that are killing our pilots in Vietnam require highly specialize(! computer technology," said Schmitz. 
He also noted that the U.S. has allowed an American company that manufactures a special grinder that produces ball bearings used in missle guidance systems to sell 150 of the machines to the Soviet 
TTnion. 
against limited war 
·'If you had an enemy that was bent upon your destruction, would you help him aim his gun? I don't think you would. But this is exactly what we are doing," claimed Schmitz. 
"We switched sides before the war finished. Never in our history have we done this before." It is not immoral to aid an ally or bomb ammunition dumps, said Schmitz. "What is immoral is to send troops in to fight an undeclared, limited war that can not be decided. No one can take our war efforts seriously as long as we continue to aid the enemywith the sinews of war." 
Abortion is another milestone of totalitarianism· according to the Wisconsin native. 
(continued on page 4) 

IIDDIDIIDIIDDDIIIIIIDnDDDIIDDDIIIUIUIIIIIUIIDIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIllllllllllllll 
Tomorrow's Observer is the 
·last edition before Christmas 
mnmmnmnnnmmnnmnnnnnnnnmmnmmmmmmiiiDIIIDDnnmmuunnummtmnJ 

the observer Thursday, December 7, 1972
2 


warld briefs 
(c) 1!172 New York Times 

Saigon -In retaliation for a morning Vietcong rocket attack on Tansonnhut Airport Jess than four miles from downtown Saigon, American planes flew tactical air strikes within 10 miles of the huge airbase Wednesday evening in an attempt to hit the Communist at­tack forces. Military spokesmen said 53 rounds of 122 millimeter rocket fire hit the base during the attack, described as the worst in four years. 
Paris-After receiving detailed instructions from President Nixon during a day's pause in the Paris peace talks, Henry KissingE!r resumed negotiations with LeDuc Tho, Hanoi's chief negotiator. As usual. there was no official assessment after the latest meeting, which lasted 'five and a half hours. 
Washington -President Nixon continued to unveil his second term 
Cabinet nominees with the announcement that Earl G. Butz will keep iob as Secretary of the Agriculture while Secretary of Commerce Peter G. Peterson will lose his to a South Carolina textile manufae­
turer. Frederick B. Dent, who will take over the Commerce post, Jed the fight for textile import quotas. 
Washington-In what is regarded as the most sweeping shakeup of a Cabinet department in years, Secretary of the Interior Rogers C.B. Morton is engaged in a top-level house clearing. So far the casualties include three Assistant Secretaries, the two top officials of the Bureau of Indian Affairs, the Director of the National Park Service, the Commissioner of Reclamation and the Departmental Solicitor. 
an campus taday 
5:30 --Football banquet, with Ziggy Czarobski and DuffyDaugherty, ACC. tickets, call 6516. 
7:00 & 10:00 --movie; MidnightCowboy, EngineeringAuditorium. 
7:30 
--lecture, Ludwig Meidner: The Art of German Ex­pressionism; Dr. Bruno Schlesinger, NO Art Gallery.

7:30 
--lecture, News Reporting from a Women's View, SullyLowe, Stapleton_:. 






OptiDliSDl reigns for co-e·x 
Both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's officials exnressed op­timism last night that the 3000 crean-nour ceiling set for each school's students registering for next semester co-ex classes will not be found insufficient once a cou!lt is made. 
But University Registrar Hichard Sullivan and Saint Mary's College Vice President for' Academic Affairs William Hickey also reported that there is no way of knowing for sure until after registration. 
"We have taken no tallies at all 
of those signing up for Saint 
Mary's courses," said Registrar 
Sullivan. "Theres no way we could 
take a -t.ally along the way." 
Sullivan could not report if the 
Saint Mary's option was a popular 
one with Notre Dame up­
perclassmen registering for their 
next semester at Notre Dame. 
Advance registration ends Friday. 
"It's anyone's guess at this 
point." said Sullivan. 
Hickey. asked about SMC's co-ex 
registration. answered in much the 
same way as Sullivan. 
"With the guidelines we've set 
up." said Hickey -besides the 
required :JOOO credit hour ceiling, 
only one co-ex class is allowed for 
nmi-freshmen at SMC 
"registration is simply going -I 
don't think that the guidelines can 
be exceeded." 
Hickey made clear the fact that 

I I 
r I 
I 
RENT A VINTOJ 
I ' 
$5A D\_Y, 54A MILEl l 
f"IICIRE INFO, CONT"ACT: 
CRAIG KAPSON 

259-1981 
or LOIS TRANTER JORDON MOTORS 
For atudents and faculty 21 and over. 
IllRENT-A·CARI 
no tallies are taken until after registration. "We're not counting them as they go through," said Hickey. "However, within a week we hope to have the totals." 
Sullivan also said that "If everything goes right, we should have our figures by this time next week." 
He listed reasons for the wait as being computer operation time and the inquiries the University makes of "those who haven't registered but whom we expect to be back next semester." 
"We wouldn't want to count them <those signing up for co-ex courses) until then," he added. 
What is the ceilings are ex­ceeded? Hickey said that SMC has already provided the answer. 
"I really don't think our ceiling can be exceeded," said Hickey, "but if it is, all our students know what the guidelines are." 
These guidelines stipulate a lottery should there be any going­over the 300 hour limit. 
"We'll certain! have no 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester ex­cept vacations by the students of the L'niversity of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchesed for $8 per semester ( 14 per year) from the Observer; P.ox Q, Notre Dame, 
Indiana 46556. Second. class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
problems with the seniors or juniors," predicted Hiekey. "The sophomores are the only questionable group. If we have troubles with exceeding the ceiling, we will establish a lottery and will continue drawing names until the ceiling is reached." 
Hickey added that all SMC students should know this. "We have passed all this information along to them." he explained. 
Sullivan said that Notre Dame had no system for taking care of overflow. even though the University has set practically no 
(continued on page 4) 





SENIORS 
un~cer1~ain of your future? 
Opportunities in 
Teaching Social Work Drug Counseling Other Areas: 
Working with people in 1~he United States and foreign countries 
Talk with recent N.D. grads now in the Marist Brothers Lay Volunteer Program 
Times: Thurs. nite 7:30 Fri afternoon 4:00 
Ballroom of LaFortune 
GOT LONG HAIR? 

WANT TO KEEP IT? We realize getting a hairc\Jt can be a traumatic experience. Ask for one inch off and they take 
two. 
If your tired of all that, may we suggest calling Miss Carot next time you need a trim. 
'flluE.rB 
HAIR DESIGN STUDIO, INC. 2010 SO. MICHIGAN ST. SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 288-1211 
Tues-Sat. Call for Appointment 


•..--. -..• -. -... ---..•.•..... ---..-. --·~--·--..----J 

Thursday, December 7, 1972 the observer 
Etienne fires Research-Development head 
Dt'nnis tH-man) Etienne, Student Body Vice-president, yes­tl'rdav fired Jim Clarke from his Student Government cabinet position as director of research and Development. Eteinne appo­
.inted Bob Maycouth to replace Clarke. 
Thl' big thing was loyalty," said 11-Man. "I should be allowed toex­pel'l more loyalty from people working on my staff." 
Tlw loyalty issue was apparently "ggrivated by some statements Clarke made at Tuesday's Hall 1 'resident's meeting. 
"1 don't think mv dismissal was­lair." said Clarke, "Leaders should be open to criticism and diffPrenees of opinion. 
Clarke questioned the legality of tlw prt'sent student government at the IIPC meeting. Both Etienne ­;111d Clarke \\"l're at the meeting to 
ND-SMC theatre hosts Head Start children shows 
Five hundred students from sixteen local Head Start Centers will make friends with Christopher Hobin and renew acquaintances with a group of clowns at one of two special performances of "Winnie­the -Pooh" at the Li'tJe Theater, Moreau Hall. Sain< Mary's College. Notre Dame. 
The special performances, sponsored by the University of Notre Dame-Saint Mary's College combined Speech and Drama Department, will be held at 10:00 
a.m 
.. Thursday, December 7, 1972, and 10:00 a.m., Friday, December 

H. 
1972, as part of the continuance and development of a Children's Theater begun last year with "Rumplestiltskin". 


"Winnie-the-Pooh" characters will mingle with the audience after the performance and give autographs to the young Pooh enthusiasts. Colorful clowns, who had previously traveled to the Head Start Centers to entertain the l·hildren will act as ushers and serve refreshments during in­termissions. 
The clowns originated with two Saint Mary's College students who attended a Head Start picnic last summer. 1972, and amused the ehildren as clowns. In October, a Clown Program was organized under the director of Dr. Reginald Bain. Speech and Drama Department Chairman, in co­operation with Mrs. Lucy 1\lcCullough. Volunteer Co­ordinator and Publicity Director lor Head Start, and Head Start Education Co-ordinator Mrs. llden Wostmann. 
The program involved volunteer ~tudents who visited each Head Start classroom. delighting the children with their antics. The decision for giving special per­formances grew from the success of this Clown Program. 
Presently twenty-one Saint !\lary's College education students and two art students are gaining \·aluable education experience as !lead Start volunteer workers, and parning academic credit for their participation. Frances Conroy, a ~enior majoring in social welfare at Saint Mary's College. is General 
. Chairman on campus who aids volunteer co-ordination. Her work 
•with Head Start serves as partial fulfillment of the field work requirements which accompany her .,najor field. 
"Winnie-the-Pooh" will also act as a drama practicum for Saint l\lary's College seniors Carolyn Lambka and Pauline Conley. Ms. Lmnbka will receive academic credit for directing the play, and 1\ls. Conley will receive credit for her work as costume mistress. 
money l'or hall banquets but they "I did suspect that n.y loyalty to statt'nwnts important enough to have already approved money for 11-man was in question in the past, nwrit dismissal. He also feels that Friday's Student Government par­"said Clarke. "I have tried to stay lw pl'rformed his duties as tv." out of all political situations direetor of Research and De­
because my main orientation was wlopment. toward student services andStudent Government Treasurer 
l't'search." 
As director of Research and De­Mike Marget said that six in­\"l'lopnwnt. Clarke initiated thedividuals in student government 1\laycouth. Clarke's successor, is Summer.lob Placement ar.d theeontributed five dollars apiece for 

a .iu.nior in Arts and Letters. He is F!_lOd Serviees Advisory Com­the funding of the party Clarke al'live in Student Government's Jntltl'e. Ill' was also responsible referred to. !'OUP. a eommittee to investigate for eoex dinner tickets and several 
unfair student business practices, l'l'Sl'arch projects, including a bar''No student government funds and the Summer Placement on eampus and price comparisons were used." said Marget. 
of tlw Bookstore with other local program. His appointment is business. l'ffl'elive immediately.
Clarke disappointed about "I would say I was .doing a good
Clarke had previously come

student government politics. job." said Clarke. ''I can't see
under fire from Etienne since he 11-nw n said he did have the where I was in a position. as far as<1tseuss the allocations of the Hall took his cabinet position in Sep­

l.ife Fund. tPmber. eonse.nt of Student Body President m~· job goes. to be disloval. Mv Boh KPrstPn lor the administrative statl'nwnts Wl're mainly. a coni­"I was only pointing out an in­"I have questionned Jim's shake-up. parison. I'm rather disappointed
eonsistency in H-man's-position," loyalty in the past but have always tlw prl'sent student governmentsaid Clarke. "He said student given him the benefit of the has !~)\H'red itself to playing poli­government wouldn't approve anv doubt." J<:tienne said. Clarke did not consider his ties. 

TURN IN YOUR YOUTH CARD FORTWNs. YOU'LL GETATOP LP ALBUM AND A WHOLE LOT OF THE WORLD FOR FREE. 
It may sound funny to tum in your card for a free TWA counter 'or pay $3 for a new one, if you don't TWA card, but it's worth it. Ifyou turn in your have one to turn in), you'll get more than any other American or United or whatever other airline's youth airline offers you. Maximum discounts on TWA and card you have to your campus representative or any all other airlines, more free things and, on top of all 
that, a free album. 
FREE ALBUM-FIRST 10,000. 
First, you'II get a Record Club of America coupon Plus a free lifetime membership in Record good for your choice of a free top album worth up to Club of America, with no obligation to buy any $6.98. From a list of over 100 incredibles. Like Three record. The offer's limited to the first 10,000, so Dog Night, Neil Diamond, Roberta Flack, Elton John. you've got to do it soon. 

FREE MONEY-SAVING COUPONS. 
When you land in any of six cities (London, just the "in" places, but the spots that only the Boston, Paris, Los Angeles, San Francisco or Denver) knowing would know about. And those are the ones with your TWA card, you'II get a brochure we give you free dinners, drinks, club memberships or full of hundreds of dollars' worth of deals. And we discounts in. Here are just some of the absolutely mean deals. Like absolutely free or 50% off. free things you'll get in London and Boston, as an 
What we did was to talk to students in those example of what TWA has arranged for you in all cities and ask where they'd take their friends-not the cities. 
BOSTON FREEBEES. LONDON FREEBEES. FREE FREE 
A spaghetti dinner at the "Spaghetti Emporium. Inc.;• Admission to any of ten Greyhound Racing Tracks. just off Harvard Square. A great English sport. 

FREE FREE 
Breakfast in the "Pewter Pot Muffin House" Membership and drink at "La Valbonne;' one of the (14locations) where many Harvard students stop toughest clubs to get a membership in, even for first in the morning. Londoners. 

FREE FREE 
Admission to the "Prudential Center Skywalk;' the A full breakfast at your choice of 10 Quality Inns, first place to go to get your bearings in Boston. famous for their hearty fare. 

FREE FREE 
Combination health food platter from "Comers of A pint of "Watney's Red Barrel" in "The Prospect of the Mouth" restaurant. A healthy buffet of hot and Whitby," or your choice of over 40 London pubs. cold dishes. 

FRIEE 

Quiche lorraine and cup of coffee at "La Crepe·· 

FREE 

Indian soup and vegetable curry at the "India Sweet House" restaurant in Cambridge. 

FREE 

Pair of earrings or pendant (and watch it being made) at "Whaler's Wharf." 

FREE 

Admission to "Passim Coffeehouse" during great evening performances. Or. during the day, a free beverage and dessert. 

FREE 

Hour of bike riding from "Streeter & Quarles" on Boylston Street. 

_4 the observer Thursday, December 7, 1972 
Apollo recovery crews are ready 
(continued from page 1) 

with a Soviet Union Soyuz space craft in Earth orbit. The final solution for the last Apollo mission to the Moon "went exceedingly well," the National Aeronautics and Space Ad­ministration said. Darkness had fallen over the launching area from the shore of the Atlantic Ocean. Menacing clouds moved in and formed a low ceiling over the floodlit rocket. 
The "close . out crews," help the astronauts settle into their cramped capsule, conducted last minute tests. Computers in the firing room three and a half miles away monitored data comingfrom thousands of sensors at critical points in the spaceship's systems. The countdown preparations were 
running "a little ahead of schedule," according to Reports from the firing room. 
When the astronauts left the crew quarters, Cernan blew a kiss to his wife and chHdren. The 38 year old commander of the mission is a veteran of two previous space flights, the Earth-orbitting \:Gemini 9 and thg lunar-orbiting Apollo 10. For Evan:s, a 39 year old Navy pilot, and S<:hmitt, the 37 vear old scientist astronaut, Ap•olloi7 is their first venture into Space. Schmitt, known as Jack to his friends, is the first scientist assigned to an American space mission. 
Meanwhile. in the Pacific, the 



Women's dorms named by Christmas 
Reports by WSND yesterday that the quota for increased women enrollment had been set and that a decision for the next women's dorms would be final by today were labelled "erroneous" by Sr. John Miriam Jones, assistant to the Provost. 
"We hope the decision will reach Fr. Burtchaell's office soon," said Sr. John Miriam, "but not by Thursday (today)." Sr. John Miriam along with sev~al other administrators and one student were unable to meet yesterday as planned to do more work on the recommendation. 
After conferring briefly with Fr. Burtchaell, Sr. John Miriam reaffirmed that the an­nouncement of the next women's dorms would be before Christmas break. 

"We hope to release the decision prior to the semester break," she said. 
WSND's story, based on an unidentified source, claimed that 350 additional women would be enrolled next year. They also claimed that Breen-Phillips and Zahm appear to be the likeliest choices for the next female dorms. 
"I don't know where they got that information," Sr. Jones said. "That is erroneous. The halls considered include these two but a decision has not been made." 
An ad-hoc committee formed by Acting Vice President of Student Affairs, Phillip Fac­('enda, has been meeting for several weeks to provide a 
recommendation for the next female dorms. The committee includes representatives of all the campus committees that are exploring the question. 
Besides Faccenda and Sr. John Miriam. the ad-hoe committ•ee includes Fr. James Flanigan, associate vice piresident of Student Affairs; l"r. Andrew Ciferni. Holy Cross rector and chairman of the rectors' com­mittee dealing with the next female dorm; and Chris Singleton. president of Farley hall and head of the HPC com­mittee on female dorms. 
This committee will present their recommendation to Fr. Burtchaell for the final decision. The committee hopes to meet again "very soon," according to Sr. John Miriam, in order to decide its recommendation. 
Friday 5-10 pm 
Schmitz attacks abortion,. cont!ols . I Saturday December 9 10 am-10 pm I 
(continued from page J) increase the money in an economic torcement of these laws," Schmitz~~-Sunday December 1 0 1 0 am -1 0 pm I
The primary function of government, he said, is the protection of lives and property. 
Government should be limited so 

~~~~~.i~h~~n-~~ta~~~~i~~k ~h~~: 
government will set the limits for the protection of life. 
"And any government that is big enough to set the limits of life begins is big. enough to change vou're 83 and too old to live."' 
· To grant government the right to say when life begins is a totalitarian grant, he concluded. 
Schmitz claimed that nurses constituted the largest anti>­abortion group because the "can't stand the (fetal l squealing." 
Hevenue-sharing is "one of the biggest frauds ever put before the American people, not the salvation of local governments," said Sch­mitz' Government doesn't oroduce anything. It only redistributes to the same people, what it has taken from them. 
"And any government that is big Pnough to give, is also big enough to take away. If you really want to reduce ta"""· you kust keep the 
governmer. dose to the people. If 

I 
r 
the federal governmewnt doesn't raise taxes any other way, it does through allowing inflation," he 
said. "The primary cause of inflation is not the price-wage spiral l't the unions, but deficitt spending," said Schmitz. Inflation is caused when there is more money printed than has value. "This is why deficit spending is actually indirect taxation." he siad. Schmitz claimed there are two methods of indirect taxation. One is to take money directly form someone's'pocket. The other is to 

Co-ex optimism 
(continued from page 2) restrictions on registration for co­PX courses beyond the mandatory :1000 credit hour limit on the school. 
"There's no reason for guidelines." said Sullivan. adding th:1t should n problem !'Orne ur 

system when the money has no val11e. "Newborn baby cries because it is naked, hungry' and already 

~~~...tr:st:;dSe;ha~it~~vernment 
The Future 
Schmitz said another move toward move toward totalitarianism was the "drastic implementation of the OSHA (Occupational Safety and Health Actl." And act that ­"businessmen pushed for," Sch­mitz claims that it allows the federal government to come in and run private businesses under ther guise of employee safety and protection. 
"When laws get so complicated that everyone voilates them, it leaves the way open for totalitarianism because then the executive branch can puch t~ir 

i 
said. Registration of guns will lead to confiscation of guns, and this is on the road to totalitarianism ac­
cording.to Schmitz. 

Schmitz said that , in the future, he expects to see an increase in aid to communist governments. "We'll see the formation of a coalition government in South Vietnam, and the history of coalition governments is the history of communist takeovers.." 
"I'm telling you these thin1gs because I want uou to remember who told you first," Schmitz asserted. He said that this is also whv he made his recent bid for the pr~sidency It was not that he thought he could win, but that someday people would remember what he had said and \\-ould come Apollo 17 recovery crews went through a second straight day of training. "We are beginning to get it all together," Capt. Norman K. Green. Commander of the carrier Ticonderoga, said. "I have the feeling we are ready right now to do whatever we 1have to do." The Ticonderoga is at station west of Johnston Island, prepared for emergency action if trouble developed on the launch. 
, 


Observer 

News Meeting last one of the semester 
will distribute party tickets 

7:00 Tonight Lafortune 2-D 

~~~~~ ~~ 
~ Snowmobiles ~ V,1r eant ~\\\ YLt S Beauty Pag ~v> Sfr·· lfows ~0 ''"g h 
~e~ ~es

co t\JD Jazz Band oris 
Santa Claus (children's photo available) 
See it all at the: 


MICHIANA SNOW SHOW 
December 8 

I ACC Admissions Adult $1.50 ..•
I ,, . I . 
~. ~ n 
~,~.!:~~:.n::.n~·~: ~-~;;~~~ 






SALE 
BEST SELLING 
RECORD HITS 
ALBUMS WITH SUGGESTED LIST PRICE VALUES TO $11.98 NOW ALL RECORDS ONLV 
2
00 
*Famous artists Take advantage 
*Music for every age 
* Big selection 
JERRY LEE LEWIS 
FIFTH DIMENSION 

MERLE HAGGARD 
STEPPENWOLF 
THE HAMMES 

of these fabulous prices. 
BOBBY SHERMAN 
ELVIS PRESLEY JOHNNY CASH 
THE LETTERMEN 

Thursday, December 7, 1972 the observer 
Campus Roundup 

Parking eli~inated behind Farley and B-P 
Parking behind Breen Phillips and f<'arley Halls has recently been eliminated to provide safer walk wavs for students. 
The move was an outgrowth of a November 18 accident when an un­identified student was struck by a ear on Old Juniper Road. Thestu­dent did not require medical att­Pntion after the incident, and the hit-and-run motorist was later discovered as a "non-siudent", according to Arthur Pears, l Dir­t•t·tor of Security. 
Pears is hopeful that students will utilize the walkway as a safety measure. The walkway, on the \H'st side of Old Juniper Road, has t'l'Pntly been cabled off for this purpose Pears expects the 1\'alk­\i:·ay to be used principally byr­resioenfs of Flanner and Grace IIails. 
This action arose from a Security and Safety Commssion recom­mt>ndalion to the Dean of Students, which was later approved by the .llniversity. Pears hinted that parking next to thel'ieldhottsemight also be eliminatedin a future l'ampus beautification program. 

PDEP workshop 
Sister Maria Concepta McDer­
mott. C.,S.C. Saint Mary's College 
Associate Professor of Education, 
announced the scheduling of a 
Glasser Open ClassroomWorkshop 
to be conducted for prospective 
student teachers of the Parent 
Delinquent Education Program, 
PDEP. 
It is also upen faculty of Bethel 
College and Indiana University at 
South Bend, as well as to other 
interested persons. The workshop 
will take place 6:00 p.m. to 
!O:oop.m., Friday, December 15, 
1972. and for two sessions, 9:00 
a.m. to 12:00 a.m. and 1:00 p.m. to 4:00p.m., Saturday, December 16,
1972, in Carroll Hall, Madeleva 
1\lemorial. Saint Mary's College. 
Dr. DeWolf£ Roberts, a licensed 
Glasserian technician, will con­
duct the workshop, based on re­
search by psychiatrist Dr. William 
Glasser. M.D. Dr. Glasser 
developed "Reality Therapy"--an 
approach to human beings that 
t•rnphasizes mental health rather 
lhan mental illness. 
The approach focues on aiding 
the individual to satisfy his basic 
human needs. defined by Dr. 
GIasser as "relatedness and 
respect", which he learns to do by 
rejecting irresponsible behavior 
and developing better ways to act. 
!\!orality and discipline have a 
dPfinite place in Reality Therapy, 
tlw foundation t'rom which PDEP positive self-images. The program is directed toward delinquiencyJ!re­evention and rehabilitation for a ­group of twenty-five boys and girls between the ages of 12-15. PDEP \>:ill open Wednesday, January 3,­1973, in Holy Cross Hall, Saint M­ary's College. 

J\ ten dollar fee is required for the Glasserian Workshop from persons who are not PDEP staff. 
Volunteers needed 
On Sunday afternoon December 
17. from 1 to 5:30p.m. in Stepan Center. the Citizen Band Radio Operators of the area and the Not­re Dame volunteers will give a party for 800 underprivileged chil­dren from South Bend. These ­children selected by the Depar­tnwnt of Public Welfare will range in age from 3 to12 years. 
A large number of volunteers wi­lling to chaperone a small group of ehildren (4 pr 5) is needed for t!Jj~ afternoon. The children will arrive by buses and be__picked up at the l'onclusion of the party. 
Parties will also be held at each of the Head Start centers around ­South Bend on December 14 and 15. 
These are in the morning and ­musicians. magicians, clowns and any other interested peopl€ are n­Peded. 
Anvone interested in either or both 'or these projects, call the O­ffice of Volunteer Services (7308) or slop by the Student Activities ­Office in LaFortune for more inf­ormation. 
Art exhibits at SMC 
Saint Mary's College Moreau Art Gallery will feature two exhibits from December 8 through De... cember 31, 1972. 
The exhibit of Dr. Alice M. 
·1 ti f

Nichols features a comp1 a on o the artist's versatile styles. 
· Fl' ht" · f

"Photons m 1g IS one o several collage pieces by Dr. 
Nichols. She also displays art 
work in water color, ink, cut paper, and mixed media such as rubber cement and water color. 
Realizing the need of a university community to keep 
abrea~ofrecentdevclopments~ 
art. Dr. Nichols, of Ball State \lniversity, many exhibitions covering a broad range of philos­ophies. styles, and techniques. Her philosophy dictates that art be a vital force in everyday life. 
In 1968 she was appointed by Governor Edgar Whitcomb ~o !he Indiana State Arts CommiSSIOn and reappointed in 1971. In this role she has vigorously promoted the work of Indiana artists, musi­eians. writers. and actors. 
Throughher efforts and inspirath'm 
aims to assist vouth in developing_~~~-~-----~--, 
ZZW: 




MIDNIGHT COWBOY 
one night only 
Friday, Dec. 8th 8&10 in Engineering Auditorium 
she has enlisted the financial support of both private and public agenciesfor art programs in which both 11dults and children part­icipate throughout the entire state of Indiana. She will retire as Dire­l'lor of the Ball State University 
(iallery in June. 1973. 
The second show continues a tnldition of exhibiting other co­lleges' student art. It will feature student art work from Clarke College. Dubuque, Iowa. 
The majority of the works compositional spatial and media exploration problems, in addition to a representation of academic drawings and techniques. The s­tudents' skill and imagination in the development and execution of their works range from novice to semi-professional. 
The paintings, drawings, and graphics emphasize technical l'raftsmanship, draftsmanship, a­nd creativity. The paintings are done in acrylic on canvas and auto body paint on masonite, and in dude hard-edge optical studies and semi-pop figurative pieces. PenCil. pen and ink, and acrylic are among the drawing media, while the majority of graphics involve photo-silkscreen and split­fountain techniques. 
Many works were the result of classassignments. others were tot­ally independent projects. 
Last year's exhibit featured the 

Valparaiso University students' 
art work. 
SB Art Guild shows 
On Saturday and Sunday, Dec. 9 

and 10, the South Bend Artists 
Guild will hold an art showing from 
!l a.m. to 7 p.m. at the Guildhouse, 
718 E. LaSalle Street, South Bend, Ind. 
The art showing was scheduled ­

for Nov. 18 and 19 but had to be l'ancelledbut had to be cancelled_ 
due to remodeling in the Guil­
dhouse. 
During the show. there will.be li~ 

ve music and poetry readings. The 
show is open to everyone and art 
will be offered for sale. this program, as Guru Maharaj Ji's Knowledge e is for all. Ad­
Disciples here 
mission is free. 
Divine Light Mission is spon­
Lowe guest at SMC 
soring a program of slides and tapes. discourse and song given by 
Sully Lowe, political reporter for the disl'iples of Satguru Maharaj WSBT-TV <channel 22) will be the .Ji, 14 year old perfect master, on guest speaker tonight at 7:30 in 
Stapleton Lounge, Saint Mary's,Monday. in 2C LaFortune at 7:00 leading a lecture and discussion. 
p.m. 
Lowe's topic will be "My ex-
The disciplE;s will explain Guru ' perience in a male-dominated Maharaj Ji's message, and field." She is sponsored by the f<:xecutive in Residence Lecture
describe how the Knowhige of True Series of the e•conomics --businessSelf may be obtained. 
department of Saint Mary's. AllThe public is invited to attend interested persons are invited. 

TALENT NIGHT 
Every Thursday Evenin 

Prizes for the bes1r single or group act. 
THE RED DOOR CLUB 


MERRY CHRISTMAS 
from lhe Windjammer Crew 
We hope to see you in the coming year, or before! 


Ohe Wuwjammer 
-~-~-·~,~IIOVl .•r-_ 1637 Lincoln Way w.. Closed Phone 232-6622.\ 
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 




GIFT SLACKS 
by 


Doubleknits in a wide selection of patterns and solid colors ... designed to keep the wearer completely comfortable and wrinkle free. .All machine wash and dry. 
from $12 
PAY NEXT JUNE, JULY, AUGUST 
We never add a service or carrying charge on this exclusive way to buy. The Campus Shop Way. 

ON THE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAME 
America!s Children


THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
That Touch 
JohnAbowd 
O.n Thornton
Editor-In-Chief 
Business MliMger
NEWS: 283-1715 EDITORIALS: 283-8661 

of Madness 
Don Ru•ne BUSINESS: 283-7471 Joe Butler Executive Edltar 
Advertising MIIMg~n· 

jerry lutkus 
Thursday, December 7, 1972 
"'You must understand, I am very old and I really cannot work too much. I have been disabled for awhile and I cannot earn a lot of mo­ney. But I do have a beautiful family... " 
He was lean and very gaunt. His white mustache disguised the wrinkles that inevitably mark a 62-year old face. He stretched again 



Quotesans comment 
andwipedthe sleep of an afternoon nap out of the eyes that had sunk deep into his tanned face. His hair was deep white quite the color of his mustache.
Wall Street Journal, Dec. 6, l972-Of of the seats. (But he perseveres, and course, there is bad visibility as well as good new, Mr. Brannon -he soon will ··... I have 5 sons. They are my oldest. They are all married too ... very good. Sanitary Specialty Mfg. Co. is good women. Then I have 5 daughters. They are not married yet... " 
a have a model that plays the Ohio State Cleveland mail-order concern that offers fight song.) 
His tee-shirt had a hole in it and it couldn't hide the slightness of the
toilet seats that are specially designed for At any rate, some alums like Mr. 
man's build. He spread himself on the floor and mused awhile. 
alums of 26 schools. Most feature the Brannon continue to buy up anything in school's name and crest on the top of the sight. At Notre Dame, for example, the " ... I haven't worked regularly in three years or so. I can't . But when lid, and when it is raised a motto is bookstore sells over $100,000 in gifts a Iget work, I'm a custodian. My wife is a worker at Notre Dame... " revealed. On Ohio State lids, for in­year, mainly to alums, an official says. 
The color television in the corner of the room showed 2 young
stance, it says "Go Bucks." David L. But then, Notre Dame might be sort of an 
marrieds quarelling violently on a daytime soap opera. The old man's
Balliett, president of Sanitary, says toilet exception. Says a bookstore man at 
daughter-in-law was watching intently. Pictures dotted the top of the 
humor is a big hit with many grads, but Indiana University: "You can sell horse set. Throughout the house the proud parents had pictures of their he says noisy objections from a minority manure if you put the name 'Notre children. have resulted in alumni-group rejection Dame' on it." Six years ago, then man came to South Bend from Florida. He had 
spent 15 years of his life there after being ·born in Texas. 
·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:~:~:~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:~:~:;:~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=!=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~:!:~:~:;:~:=:~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
" ... Yes. I am Mexican-American. But I am an American citizen. I am an American." 
As he talked he moved constantly, straightening carpets, picking
time

Letters... 

lint off the rug, answering a phone-always moving, always, busy, but­always intent. 
" ... the Government should usupply the people with jobs. When they
Editor: such functions. Intending to abide 
don't work they get in trouble--they fight, they argue, they are very
by its first rule of just distribution, the orange 
poor... " 
Last Friday's Observer featured and not wishing to penalize any an editorial headed "A 20 per cent halls for their "failure" to make 
Editor: Mistake." which sharply criticized more tangible requests, the I write this letter to remind youof 
the distribution of the $5,100 Hall committee honored some of these an incident which should not be year. He is a Democrat, but only if they had the right candidate. 
Life Fund. In leveling this attack, proposals. I noted
forgotten. have with 

however. the article's author The committee wholeheartedly 21 years ago, this man left his home in Texas .. He took his wife, 32 at
sadness the lack of any mention of 

(Jerry Lutku~l failed to consider the time, and his 6 children and moved to .onda. Then, he moved a
agrees with Mr. Lutkus' statement the event in this paper, by either its 
several key factors regarding that $150,000 couldn't begin to own staff. or anyone else. gain with all ten children tis time and came north. 15 years later. these allocations. satisfy the needs of all the Initially. there were certain residence halls on campus, but not 
At the Miami game on Nov. 18, a For years in America,there has been a tension between what manybases for distributing this money with his assertion that every penny large number of Notre Dame people see America as and what many people think it could have been. 
determined long before any of the of the Hall Life Fund should be so students showed just how Jefferson saw this country as a great agricultural nation, a nation ofresidence halls made specific directed. Nor did its rationale d;..ngerous they can be when they self-sufficient family farmers. But that great dream that Jeffersonrequests. The Board of Com­resemble the one alleged by throw caution to the wind, along saw was devoured as the rurban giant crawled westward. The citymissioners. according to the in­1Lutkus-that halls seeking with ice balls and oranges. The took over. And the city was another dream. It was the dream of menterpretation of the Hall Presidents' renovation monies could play bombardment of the field and like Alexander Hamilton who saw the future of this country in the ~ity.
Council. stated that portions of the trick-or-treat with the $50,000 set anyone on it was a terrible· To them the city meant progress, industry, and a bright future. 
fund could be granted for any aside by the Trustees for this The frontier disappeared in America and the city became the center purchase or project which would purpose. Quite simply, there would of the Universe .... Chicago, New York, Los Angeles, San Fransisco, 
be beneficial to the life or spirit of a be no equitable way to apportion demonstration of what happens Dallas ... they became the centers of opportunity. America had a newhall. In addition to this guideline, $5.100 if such needs were con­when people stop thinking, and act symbol of promise.
carelessly and irresponsibly. Who

the Hall Presidents' Council sidered. At least one hall-my I thought I'd never see South Bend as a symbol of promise, bu~ to _one
established several ground rules of own-could not subsidize a pending knows what injuries were or could have been suffered? A old man I talked to., that's exactly what it had been . The city IS a
its own. remodeling project even if the Hall cheerleader was hit in the face; place of hope for him and South Bend became his city. 
The first criterion was that any Life Fund were doubled and turned The Southwest and South were oppressive to him and a new freedom
hall which made a reasonable over to it in its entirety. suppose someone wearing glasses lured him away. The freedom of movement and a movement to a newproposal would be given a share of Thus, the committed responsible had been hit in the eye? 
hope. Perhaps it was in desperation, perhaps it was planned, but when the fund. This is entirely consistent for distributing the pot is he looked northward one morning, in his eyes, he saw a chance.
with the purpose for which the Hall blameless for a "20 per cent Another notably sad point is the Americans are fortunate because they have that little touch-of Life Fund was established-to Mistake." To be sure, a mistake large proportion of students who madness that is necessary to live today. This man had tl_la~ to~ch ~fmake some kind of return to the was made, but not by the members were not thinking about anyone but madness. It can't be any better for him in South Bend .... his mcome 1sstudents. all of whom paid a of the Hall Presidents' 'Council, themselves. I do not claim to be barely at the poverty level, the snow was beating agamst the frontfourteen dollar Student Govern­who understand the plight of the any less selfish, but I did see the door. But there was hope. And he came. 
ment Fee. residence halls better than any exhibition at the last home game 
Secondly, it was decided that other group. For these people have as a stupid and dangerous show; none of the money would be no voice in the allocation of $5,000, one that should be faced now, and "Just remember this. if we bomb North Vietnam or if we pull our directed toward hall renovation $500,000, or any of the amount so tro0ps out we won't get our POW'S. If you don't get something fighting projects. Mr. Lutkus' criticisms desperately needed for hall im­avoided at all cost in the future. for it. you'll never get it by running." stemmed from the fact that the provements. Lamentably, neither That is a challenge for those in a. 
five-man committee appointed by the source nor the magnitude of the position to reach and iinfluence a. the Hall Presidents' Council real mistake can be pinpointed. large number of people, but more The wind beat hard around by ears as I feft his house. I looked back adhered to these rules. important it is a challenge for to see the old house with a broken down Chevy station wagon in the 
The "20 per cent Mistake" took Kevin J. Griffin every one of us. We are fools if we back. The house needed painting and was broken down in the back. the form of some $1,000 which was President, Grace. Hall fail to answer it. The snow whizzed by as I puuea by hat down over my head and alotted primarily for hall ac­crouched inside my collar. tivities. But the requests made by <on behal.f of the Hall Life Fund Denis DuBay He had marked me in a way. I guess it was just interesting to see certain halls (e.g., Fisher, St. distribution committee) 254 Farley Hall some of that good ole American Dream. He had a quest and he fo­J<:dwards l did not extend beyond llowed it. He came North ... to what...to South Bend ... for what. . .for a 
·new start. . .for another chance. But most of all, it seems, in the hope that he could find somthing better. 
daanesbury ,.arry i~rudeau 
AI/... 

/lOW /JO YOtJ /J~ ScA,E'.S HIJ'IJH.~. f'H NeN~ 
.PtCIJSEP TO PEP/1/dTNcNT.. 
Hc&f YO(!. I FoRfJcT 
11; H0/1.
I 
!/fiTS.'I 0 

" 

the observer 
ISSUE STAFF: 

Night Editor: Art "Sunshine" Esposito Ass't Night Editor: James Abowd ' Design: Jerry Lutkus, Joe Abell, Maria Gallagher Day Editor: Tom Drape Sports Night Editor: Stan "The Man" Urankar Pictureman: J. Michael Phillips Night Controller: Phi I Orscheln Typists: Barb Norcross, John Flannigan, Harry Chung 

Thursday, December 7, 1972 the observer 
7

Observer insight 




0-C: advantages, disadvantages 


Fr. James Riehle, Director of Housing Notre Dame, "Better communications between administration and. off campus." 
"Living off-campus is economical," according to Johanna Ryan, a Saint Mary's senior living in the Notre Dame Apartments. "Do you know how much I've spent on food the last week and a half? $1.48. You really learn to like Campbell's soup." 
Johanna lives in a two-bedroom apartment with three Saint Mary's College seniors. While an exchange student in Rome last year Johanna lived in what she called a coed dorm. an Italian pensione. "The freedom and independence I found made me balk at the structure of the dorms," continued Johanna. 
She believes that the regulations and structure of dorm-living im­posed on her life. "You have to eat at a particular time and find places to study to get away from all the noise," stated Johanna. 
College students need the ex­perience of privacy, responsibility, and independence that entail off­campus living in apartments, houses. trailors. and co-ops of today, according to off-campus students. 
"I just don't think dorms give a natural and balanced atmosphere. lt's just not the real world," commented Johanna. It's like people living in little cells. I just can't get into that." 
A National Trend 

According to a National Ob­server article many dorms across the country are closing from the lack of adequate residents. 
The University of Wisconsin at Madison has abandoned 870 dorm spaces in the last two years, tur­ning one dorm into offices and laboratories. 
Ohio State University had 1,400 campus-residence vacancies this fall and a possibility of installing an academic and administration facilities in a twenty-four story dorm designed for 1,380 oc­cupants. 
Kent State University in Ohio closed its third -dorm since Jane. 
Dale W. Meador, director of 
housing at Western Illinois, i~ 
checking a survey of 499 in­
ate the situation in housing. "Some 
institutions appear to have ob­
viously over-extended themselves 
on student housing and the number 
of beds. Most of these schools 
appear to be in rural areas, not in 
the metropolitan areas." 
Thirty-five percent of Purdue 
University's 20,751 un­
dergraduates live off-campus. 
According to the housing office the 
percentage of off-campus students 
has grown the last several years 
but with no unusual trends. 
Purdue has experienced a slight 
growth in total enrollment, of 
which the residence halls have 
acquired a stable proportion. "At 
present time, we have ninety-six 
percent of the available spaces 
occupied and expect to approach 
ninety-eight to ninety-nine percent 
next year," says the housing of­
fice. the last three years. Juniors, 
Approximately thirty-eight seniors, or those women twenty­percent of the undergraduates at one years old may live off-campus. the University of Chicago live "The trend is increasing," stated outside residence halls, with eight Mrs. Donna Ayers, director of percent of these students com­housing. "I expect at least as many muting from home. as this year and more. We'll know 
According to Edward in April." Turkington, assistant dean of Saint Mary's College, like Notre students, there has been a slight Dame, is mainly a tesidential movement of students into college that depends upon the residence halls rather than out. income from students living on 
,"We do have coed dormitories camous. and unlimited visitation which may have contributed to this movement," stated the director, "That is we
why haven't "It's hard to say." 

solicited any movement off­campus. There just hasn't been a need," continued Mrs. Ayers. "The next three years will determine 
Residential Campus that. It is possible that the entire junior and senior classes would choose to move off-campus." 
According to Fr. James Riehle, Saint Mary's College now has director of housing at Notre Dame, sixty vacancies in rooms. This "Unlike other universities we year it closed Augusta Hall haven't felt any pressure from because there was no longer an students moving off-campus, not adequate number of students to fill here anyway because we have a its hall because of a decrease in shortage of rooms." Ao-total enrollment. 
~llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll Ill1111111111111Ill Ill Ill Ill 111111111 
Independence and mobility 
are the reason why girls 

move off campus. 
tiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllUIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIHIHIIOOIIIIIIIUHI 
proximately 1,600 of a totill enrollment of 6,700 students live Changing Life $tyles? off-campus. 
"Notre Dame is predominately a residential campus, but with the A change in life style toward feeling now for women to live on more independence and privacy is campus, as we give dorms to also•considered a major cause in women, more and more students this movement away from cam­will have to move off," stated pus-oriented living. "In­Father Riehle. dependence and mobility are 
In prior years students living off­desirable, this is the reason why campus were purely voluntary, girls move off mainly," stated with the university forcing only Mrs. Ayers. about 100 students off campus. Paul Larsen, a Notre Dame "This is a new thing for us, ·as far senior in the American Studies as wanting people to live off­Program living in a house, ex­campus." Riehle said. pressed similar feelings. "Why off­
The director stated that no campus? I don't knoW'. I jus.t formal arrangements have been wanted ·the freedom, respon­made to encourage students to sibility, and privacy that goes with move off campus, but many in­it. I always wanted to have a house formal conferences and with a fireplace and have a suggestions have been made to Christmas tree. That would be better the image and practicality neat," he smiled. of off-campus living. "I think there is a general feeling 
"Administrators have suggested of getting away from groups," better communications between continued Paul, "a sense of in­administration and off-campus dividualism, and yet people won't students, and an adoption program just move off unless friends are off of off-campus students by par­or in a general area." ticular dorms." stated Riehle. George O'Geen, a junior, did not Students already unofficially use plan on moving off-campus until the dorms as a hang-out during the three of his friends pulled him into day to store books and to catch a an apartment they had in the Notre little sleep," stated the director, Dame Apartment complex. "but it's done more on a personal "Living in a dorm is kind of basis." stifling," stated O'Geen. "Living 
Saint Mary's College has had an off-campus has more of a homey atmosphere, instead of four walls at Stanford." 
George feels life off-campus entails responsibilities closer to realistic living. "You don't have people doing your laundry or making your bed or feeding you anymore. We have it set up where one guy cooks, another cleans and two do the dishes. It's working out real'well." 
George doesn't feel off-campus living has isolated or inhibited his relationships with friends. "I keep in touch pretty much with the guys back here," commented George, "and the transportation to and from the apartments is real easy." 
George rides to campus with one of his roommates or hitches. "I've had to wait no longer than five minutes for a ride," smiled George. 
Geoff Lyden, a junior accounting major has lived in a dorm for the past seven years, including high school. He now lives in Saint Johanna believes these students do Joseph hall, a private dormitory not want the responsibility ofoff-campus. 
cooking and cleaning.
"When coming to a university, 
you need some access by which to 
meet people, and dorm life is the 
best place to meet them. Living 
under one roof you're bound to 
make close friendships if you're in 
any way out-going," stated Geoff. 
Even though Geoff has ex­
pressed an appreciation for hall 
life. he wants to move off-campus. 
"I've lived in a dorm for seven 
years now and am ready to live in a 
house. I'd like to get away from 
school itself. Sometimes it's good 
not to associate your living en­
vironment with school." 
Susie Quinn, a sophomore living in Badinhall also gave her opinion of dorm living while expressing a desire to eventually live off­campus. 
"If you're an underclassman, dorms give the advantage of learning about people because people live around and with you." 
Susie also believes dorms give the added advantage of not having to take care of a house when one is 
. first introduced to a college curriculum. 
Susie feels that by the time students are seniors, they are ready to indulge in living toally on their own. There is a need for privacy and independence. "By the time you're a senior, I think it's Donna Ayres, Director of Housing a good experience," stated Susie. Saint Mary's College, "In­"I want to ml ve off in my senior dependane and Mobility ... " year if I can." 
Off-Campus Students Ignored? 
"Coeding;" Dorm Enticements 
Many .universities losing 
students from a'orms--bave at­
The.l]niversity of Notre Dame tempted to adapt the structure of and St. ~ry's College are self­the dorm to standards more defined a_~ predominantly desirable to the students of today. residential cMJ.eges. No real "Coeding" of dormitories and 
provisions aside mun the prac­unlimited visitation rights between tically unknown IockeN.. in the men and women are appearing student center and day-lounges at more frequently. both campuses are provided fOF The University of Chicago and 
off-campus students. 
Students living off-campus Iowa State have various degrees of strongly insist they are ignored by coeducational housing. the University. The nearest thing to eoed dorms 
is a cluster of male and female 
dormitories centered around a 
common dining hall. 
-According to Paul Larsen, Other situations evolve "L" and 
"Notre Dame forgets about you. "H" shaped buildings with one They don't contact you about wing assigned to women and the anything. They cater strictly to on­other wing to men, sharing a campus students; even the politics central lounge and -dining of the school is strictly on cam­facilities. pus," he concluded. 
George O'Geen also feels the 
University has done nothing tO; One common arrangement, 
accomodate students living off­andon one brought to mind by the 
campus. "It's like what I read in word "coed dorms", is alternating 
the manual when L was a fresh­floors or rooms of men and 
man. Hesburgh seems to want within a high-rise complex, a 
everything centered around or a floor. 
campw;. That puts off-campus Rino Hall is one such dorm 
guy>s to the side," stated George. at Iowa State. 
Many students at Notre 
has expressed a desire to 
some form of coed dormitory. 
To keep in touch with events on according to Fr. Riehle, no 
campus, George reads the Ob-have been made to consider a 
server and talks to friends at dorm any where in the near fu. 
Stanford Hall. Universities are faced wi 
Johanna Ryan believes it is not definite problem in the move­
just the University that has an odd of many students out of resi 
attitude towards off-campus dormitories. Whether this 
living. "It's hard to understand the temporary fad or a lasting ch: 
reasoning here. I don't know if this in life styles within univeJ 
is true or not," the coed hesitated, living remains to be seen. 
"but most people that attend Notre Universities are 
Dame come from somewhat coeducational dorms and 
sheltered environments. Perhaps relaxation of the dormi 
they feel they can retain this structure to compete with 
i;iO~J.tgr:~~~~~~.in.R.dDrm.flitlJil.t.ipf.l,:'. movement. 
:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·.·.·.·.·.·.·!·!·!•!•!•!•!•!•!•!•!•!·!·!·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:~:·:·:::;:::;:·:·:·:·:~:~:;:;:::;:;:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:·.::::7:::. = 
;' 

Notre Dame forgets about you 

-· ' 

when you're off campus. 
\·. 

:::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::i:::=:::::::::i:::i:::::::::::::::::::i· 


the observer Thursday, December 7, 1972
8 

ND, SMC split teacher evaluations 

to use the same form again this facility." vear. 
· "After the unmerger," stated As a result, Hickey continued, St. Thompson, "there was no St. Mary's is currently attempting two
Teacher course evaluations, 
Mary's input into the development approaches.
being completed by Notre Dame 
of a new form ... and the decision
and Saint Mary's students, are not 
was made that we would develop
identical, as they were last year. "First: Student Acade·mic 
this (the evaluation forms> for
Notre Dame is currently using a Commissioner, Natalie Dwyer, is new form, developed by the Notre Dame courses exc:lusively." getting student eva.luations on all 
University Committee on Teacher the courses involved for those Course evaluation. This com­However, Dr. William Ji:. people coming up through 1rank Hickey, St. Mary's Vice President
mittee, headed by Dean Thompson and tenure this year," stated 
for Academic Affairs, also ex­
of the Arts and Letters College, Hickey.
plained that the two separate
was established during the 1971-72 
forms were due to the different
acHdemic year. "Second," he continued, "WE! are 
eomputer systems used by each
Saint Mary's is now employing working on a new instrument for 
school.

the form set up by the National student course evaluation, in
"The Notre Dame form," Hickey
Organization of the American which we're merely trying to come
explained. "is a separately
Association of University up with a more effective in­
worked-out form which is
Professors. (AAUP>. strument for student course 
processed through their computer
According to Thompson, "the evaluation." 
facility and we don't have access to
unmerger was pretty much the that particular type of computer The present ND form, according reason" that the two schools failed 
Resettlement of refugees will receive top priority 
by Bernard Gwertzman  propriations, how much could be  One aid official said that after a  
(c> 1972 New York Times  raised from  other donor  natons  cease-fire,  survey  teams  would  
Washington, Dec. 6 -The Nixon administration has ordered that  and how much might be provided, from private voluntary agencies, the official said. -­·  make reports on tlhe situation in Indochina and detailed planning could commence on secl()nd­ 
postwar aid programs give highest  The official said he expected that  priority items.  These would in­ 
priority  to  the  resettlement  and  after  a  cease-fire  a  meeting  of  clude  bridges,  waterworks  and  
rehabilitation  of  the  millions  of  potential donor  states  would  be  other projects of less urgency that  
refugees who have been dislocated  called  to  discuss  future  aid  the resettlement of the refugees,  
by the fighting in South Vietnam,  programs in Indochina. It is hoped  who at present are either living in  
Laos and Cambodia, a well-placed administration official said today.  that Asia  many countries in Europe, and the Communist world  camps or temporary homes or are wandering in cities and in the  
The  official,  familiar with  the  would participate.  eountryside.  
urgent program under way in the  Following  that  meeting,  the  Conversations would also bElgin,  
Agency  for  International  administration  would  be  in  a  the official said, on the extent of  
Development  said  that  the  position  to  make  an  accurate  nid  that  Hanoi  might  want  tl  
problem  of  .either  moving  the  estimate  of  how  much  money  receive.  But o ficiials doubt tha  
refugees back to their home areas  Congress would be asked to supply  North Vietnam will allow a regular  
or  settling  them  permanently  in  above  the  current  aid  ap­ aid  mission  to  set  up·  a  
new locations had received prime  propriations,  which  are  now  headquarters in its territory.  
consideration within  the  govern­ running at 448 million yearly for  One aid official s:aid that while  
ment. At present, however, there is a  South bodia.  Vietnam, Laos ·  and  Cam- the 7.5 billion figure first men­tioned bv the 'administration in  
disagreement in Washington on the extent of the refugee problem, althoughall estimates agree that it is very serious. The United States government  Congress has been unen­thusiastic in recent years about foreign aid, but administration officials hope that with an end to the fighting the legislators might  January:seemed la~rge, it was '"not out of the ballpark." The planmng tor postwar developments in Indochina has been going on in desultory fashion  

reports some 780,000 refugees now In Section 8 of the nine-point for several years. But about four receiving relief in South Vietnam, draft accord announced by Hanoi months ago, under criticism from with an additional unknown on Oct. 26 and confirmed by Henry Senator Kennedy that it was not 
number not on any official roll. Kissinger that day, the United doiug enough, the Agency for There are believed to be about States was obliged to "contribute International Development set up 
250,000 refugees in Laos, an official to healing the war wounds and to a task force headed by Roderic L. said. and hundreds of thousands, the postwar construction in the O'Connor, who was given the title perhaps as many as two million, in 
Democratic Republic of (North) Assistant Administrator for 
Cambodia. Vietnam and in all of Indochina. Sp~ial Projects.Sen. F~dward M. Kennedy's 
One official said that Congress The planning has -intensified inSubcommittee on Refugees, which might balk at appropriating such the period since the disclosure onhas regularly criticized the ad­funds if Hanoitried to depict them Oct. 26 of the draft agreement inministration's Indochina policies, as "blood money." North Vietnam, an official said.
has eharged that the government's Pstima tes of refugees are too 
small. 

Ttw committee contends that there are at least two million refugees in South Vietnam, and that approximately 8 million 
A great number of 
people at one time or another have been in that category. The country's population is 17.5 111 illion. 
For planning, the administration 
directories are left 01ver.
has lwen basing its post war aid programs on a 7.5 billion figure discussed by the administration for the five years after a cease­fin•. Of this amount, North
. 
Vietnam has been told that it could 
' 
If anyone wants additional 
count on 2.5 billion. At the moment, the Ad­ministration has not decided how 
copies, come to the 4th floor
much of the 7.5 billion will have to 
eomP from Congressional ap-
Lafortune Student Uniort
AMERICAN EDUCATIONAL 
RESEARCH CONSULTANTS COMPLETE EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH MATERIALS 

Thurs., Friday, Mondc1y,
includina 
·NEW AND USED DISCOUNT PAPERBACK~ 

or Tuesday from 3-5.
Mon-Fri (202) Sat 9:30-5:30 785-4511 10-2 2430 PENNSYLVANIA Ave. NW Wash DC 20037 AREA Dl RECTORS WANTFn AMERICAN EDUCATIONAL 
R-E 


to Thompson, would not be ap­this area. There might be some plicable to SMC courses. Com­\'ery different things that the posed of three parts, there are ten science department might want to general questions, ten questions know about what goes on in the eoncerning lecture instruction in dassrooms." the college of Arts and Letters, and 
Dr. Hickey, stating that becausefive others regarding the specific "Notre Dame extended to St.
eollege of the teacher evaluated. 
Mary's College last year the op­portunity to use their student course evaluation form and have
"I don't know whether St. 

them processed on the computingMary's would have any distinctive equipment at Notre Dame becameofferings that they'd like special available, St. Mary's availed itself
questions on or not," stated 
to this opportunity, moving towardThompson. However, he cited one unification."
difference between the form used for the Arts and Letters and that "We could have used this same which would be used by St. Mary's. form again," Hickey explained, 
"Our Arts and Letters College "but it would have had to be doesn't teach any sciences, except programmed differently for our the social sciences, whereas, St. eomputer facility, or it would have Mary's of course, has offerings in had to been hand-read." 
ANNUAL SPECIAL CHRISTMAS 
BOOK SALE 
Beautiful Art Books 
Ideal lor 
Christmas 
Gifts 
2nd Floor 

~~~l THE HAMMES l~~~ ~ll:::::::::::::::~:~:2:!:~:~::::2~:!::::~2:2~!:!:~:~:~:::::::::::::::::::J~~ 


Thursday, December 7, 1972 the observer 
9 


I-


Mountain fountain. 
BOONE'S FARM, MODESTO CALIF. 
-~ 
A 
j 


the observer Thur:sday, December 7, 1972 
'Verified entrance system' 
Pears: new traffic contJ~ol~; 
by Dick Toland "lake away the mistaken conceptStaff Reporter that an officer makes . 1-tis own 
Director_ of Security Arthur rules. They are university rules Pears announced yesterday that a andthe guards won't neglect their "Verified Entrance System" will dutv. They can't do what is il­be in effect next semester at the legal." two campus gates. The security director stated that 
The new system consists of time guards are often subjected to ver­docks installed at the security g­bal abuseirom st.udents for no1; 1a ates which will stamp the time of aking exceptions to Universuy entry for vehicles granted special rules. permission to enter campus. The In addition to providing better nwchanical devices will arbitrarl~ communication between students 1\ enforce the 15-minute time limit and the guards, Pears claims the (or cards with "cumbersome items system will "help show the guards to pick up or deliver." University patrolling campus who is legally o­traffic regulations allow this pri­n the premises." This will be done vilege between'he hoursof 7 a.m. by placing the timpe-stamped pass and !ip.m. on the dashboard after students 
Pears hopes the new system will deposittheir license at the gate. 
Blood drive here is ter1ned a success 
by Andy Schilling Staff Reporter 
The organizers of the recent Red Cross Hlood Drive have termed it a "great success." The drive took place on November 30 and December 1 at Stepan Center and ovP.r !iOO donors gave blood to blol>dmobile units from Fort Wayn~ and Chicago. It was probably the first time two dif­ferent Hed Cross units combined their efforts to take blood at a university , according to the organizers of the drive. 
Organizers Pete Meade and Jack l\1cKeon are already planning on holding another blood drive next semester with expanded facilities. 
Meade said the Red Cross was "very satisfied and very en­thused" about the excellent tur-
Isis reorganized; gallery becomes 'culture center' 
by Greg Rowinski Staff Reporter 
Isis Gallery is in the process of becoming a "functioning gallery for educating people in art on c­ampus." according to Chris Gregory. a teaching assistant in the Art Department, and one of the group's reorganizers. 
The idea to make Isis "really fundion" is the brainchild of Art grad students. Their intention is the establish a center for student culture. a student-run gallery sug­gested Gregory, that would be 1i1ore closely oriented to the student body. 
Such a gallery will provide a ­very useful learning experience for art students and others. Isis will h­opefully sponsor shows and lectu­res on a regular basis. Gregory e­xpressed the hope that a calendar of evets and lecture series will be set up for next year. 
The program is now on a trial basis to test the amount of student interest in such a project. 
A collection from the Columbus Gallery of Art and Design is now on display. and will be for the remain­der of the semester. The public is­invited to the showing on Friday from lito 8:30 plm. 
I\ show from Indianpolis is tent­atively planned for January. Other future projects include a show forom New York and hologr­am show. 
The gallery will present the one­
man and group shows of works of 
N.D. grad students in April and l\1av. 
The Isis organizers are seeking funds from the Student Gove­rnment tofinance their program. Expenses are currently being met out of the students' own pockets. No coordinator has been chosen y­et. 
The Isis Gallery is located in the northwest corner of the Fieldh­ouse. 
volunteers who helped on the administrative level. He added that a large number of the volunteers were members of the Notre Dame Knights of Columbus. 
All donorsland their immediate families may receive blood free from the Red Cross, if they need it, for a period of one year. Meade hoped he would be able to mail identification cards to the par·· ticipants by Christmas, but added, 
"II add depends on how soon I get them -last year we got them quick and mailed them out right away. This year it may take longer, because there were two different Hed Cross units participating." 
Meade and McKeon are each "very satisfied" with the results of the drive. "It turned out better than I thought it would," said Meade. "The response was really beyond my expectations. The only problem we had was that the Red Cross just couldn't handle all the people who came in, but then, I guess that's the kind of problems you like to have."' 

,. ND/SMC THEATRE PRESENTS EUGENE IONESCO'S 
THE KILLER 
Dec. 8, 9, and 10 tJt 8:30 p.m.. Washington Hall All seats $"1.00 Washington Hall Box Office open 4:00-6:00 daily Reservations 283-7054 (not inclt..:.ded in SE!ason ubscription) 
ween Edison & 

Campus Phone 272-4484
Ironwood 
S250,  great  condition,  a  real  
trucker!  289-5940.  
CHRISTMAS SPECIAL.  $10 off  


Mr. Baron ~award winning stylist in this ar4ea 
also Our Advanced' .Lady Stylis-ts 
Call for appointments--259-7679 
student rates

1321. E. McKinley Hwy.--MI,sh. 
Mon., Tues. &

21J2 mi. east of T&C Shopping Center 
Wed. 


The new system will not allow freer access to campus. Existing regulations will be enforced, ae­cording to Pears. 

CHRISTMAS BUSES 
Circle -O'Hare Leave 12/19 -20 21 1:30pm Retu.-n 1/15 8:00 & 10:00 pm 
Sign -ups at travet bureau-BQdin Hqll Have a cool day 
CLASSFED aDS 
PERSONALS 
Dear SMC Skater, 
I'm in love with you. See you Friday nite. The Bearded Wonder 
A very Merry Christmas to the Observer staff with love from your "Mom". P.S. You'll find candy under the tree. 
WANTED 
-------~­
Wanted: Typing lhemes, manuscripts. Call Jane Smith 233-6909. 
Wanted: off-campus housing for one chick next semester, call 8996. 
Rider wanted to Oregon. Must share expenses. Leave December 19. Call 233-3893. 
Wanted: ambitious person or couple interested in earning good part-time Income. For Interview call Mr. Weill -272-8375. 
Ri'le needed to Colorado or New Mexico for Christmas vacation. Call St~ve, 1059 
'"eed apartment for one tor next semester. Preferably close to campus & CHEAP. Call Rick 821U, Chris 4964 or Larry-Paul 8276. 
Wanted: 2 r.oommates. Off­campus, 5-bedroom hOUM. S50 mo. can Denny !3.C-o42St 
Men and Women students needed to help get YWCA Home for Girls ready to open. Some jobs are: painting bunk beds, cleaning floors, moving furniture, etc. Supplies are at the home; iust drop in and work. 520 North Lafayette. See Jay or JoAnn Powell. Or phone 233-9491 and ask for Carol Wilken. 
Volunteers to swim with a child from logan Center; especially week of Dec. 11-15. Call 7308. 
I need a ride to anywhere on the West Coast (i.e. California) from. Miani after the Orange Bowl game. Will share driving, e­xpenses, etc. I can 'I afford get. ling ripped off by the airlines! Please call Pete at 8253 
Need 2-5 Orange Bowl tickets will pay. Call Andy 6827. 
Need riders to Albany. Leaving Dec. 20. also, Need roommate for off-campus 2nd semester. Call Kevin 232-2146. 
18" B&W TV, Montgomery Wards. Used for two years, ex­cellent condition. Call 255-6553 evenings. 
For Sale: a 1958 Morris Minor for parts wilh a 1961 Austin Healy engine. Very, very reasonable. Call 259-3573 after 6 pm. 
Raleigh 10 speed, with exlras. 4 monlhs old. $90. 233-8855. 
NOTICES 
Before you buy a ring for a gift or engagement call James 3133. It may save you a great deal. 
EUROPE! Lowesl rates to all European Cities! Daily flights from N.Y.., Chicago, D.C., Philadelphia, and others. British Overseas Airways Corp. Call Clark, 283-8810, for details. 
Interested in participating in gay awareness discussion groups? Write lo Gay Awareness, care of The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Ind. 
Gals, earn $10-$20 for 2hours work from your home. For details call 272-8375. 
Christmas Loans! Not due until January 19th. Morrissey Loan Fund. Open until Dec. 13, Mon· day-Friday 11:15-12:15. La Fortune Basement. 
Will lhe men who borrowed our reference material on recycling return il or call 288-4664 Mr. Egggleston. 
Speaking of BLONDES · Girls willing to help us add some accent to our SWEDISH SMORGASBORD, contact Pat Joyce at the South Dining Hall, 6147, before Friday, Dec. 8th. Dinner will be provided as well for any St. Mary's girl who can help. It'll be fun · so how 'bout it! 
VALKOMMEN 
Sign-ups for the PITT CLUB XMAS BUSES will take place in Room C-1 (first floor Am· phitheater) LaFortune, Thursday December 7 at 7:30. 
There will be a Graduate Student Union meeting Friday 12 noon in 127 N.S.H. All delegates please plan to attend. 
If 21, call Wilson driveaways for a car to drive home at X-mas. 
Kevin 3460. Murph 3530. 
'Walsh', 'Notre Dame' t-shirts on 
Riders wanted to Southern New Jersey Dec. 20. Call 234-6267. 
i!ide needed for 2 to O'Hare on Dec. 19, Tuesday after 3 pm. Paul 7861 . Tom 8636. 
Ride wanted to Muncie, Ind. this Friday . call Gil 6808. 
FOR SALE 
For sale: Two sugar Bowl tix, cheap. Call Joe 287-4506. 
For sale: '64 Ford Galaxy 500, 
reg. price of new Westinghouse Compact Refrigerators. 4.4 cu. ft. cap., free delivery. CALL NOW! 234-0S78 or 232-2618. Ask for Tom. 
For Sale: reliable old friend 64 chevy $275 or best offer. Call Ski 233-1547. 
Best buys tor Xmas. G.E. por­table stereo, $60; Underwood porteble typewriter, $70. Both A­1. 259-9766. 
Like new auede vest with fringe. 
$25. 233-8855. 
For sale: head skis, poles, foam. boots, and Grand Prix bindings. $225 or best offer. Call Steve 6715. 
Must sell Orange Bowl ticket. Call Drew after 11 pm 3107. 
New Years Eve fireworks for sale. Send name and telephone number to Box 685 NO, Indiana 46556. 
sale in Walsh Hall office Thurs. 6· 9, Fri 1-4. $2.50. 

Typing: essay-term paper-thesis­dissertation-technical or research report We do them professionally, efficiently, and reasonably. Expert Secretarial Service. 233-9466 or 23-3-3257. 
LOST AND FOUND 

Lost: Rabbit's Fur Hat (MadCap). Reward $10.00. Rosetta M. Kerrigan, 2701 Lake Shore Drive. Michigan City, In­diana 46360. 
lost -Pink Cameo ring Fri., Dec. 
1. Call Beth 4679. 

Lost . 1 pair green girl's mittens, call Dan 8810. 
Found: a cat. Call and identify 1409. 
Slolen · Carmel H.S. laundry bag containing sweaty gym suit and a pair of prized Adidas Olympia's from North Dining Hall. Will thief please return. Call B.J. Dowe, 1380. 
Lost: 74 class ring. Initials SFP. Reward. Call 7921. 
Found: Burlington high school class of '72 ring . red stone . call 6167. 
Found: glasses, outside O'Shagnessy. Call and identify 1152. 

~------~ 

the observer Thursday, December 7, 1972 
Irish whip stubborn Valpo, 82-72 
Shumate scores 24 in opening ND victory 
sagging to the weakside to help on giveaways, but noted, "It comes 
by Stan Urankar him. We just couldn't cope with from inexperience. We'll get him on the boards." better." 
Occasional easy buckets wereTake Notre Dame coach Digger Shumate grabbed ten of his 
team's 55 rebounds, and connected attributed to experimenting onPhelps' word for it...the first win is on an incredible 11 of 12 shots from defense by Phelps. "We didn't try a big one, even if you have to beat the field. Still, the first-year to stop any one player; we justValparaiso to do it. 
forward from Elizabeth, N.J. was tried to· play solid 'D'! We wanted"Any time you win, it's a win," not totally pleased with his play. to work our No. 3 D; that's why wecommented the second-year Irish "The team is still not getting the looked like we were going crazy.
eager tutor after his squad had 
most out of me," Shumate noted. We experimented a lot."
dumped the Crusaders, 82-72, in "I'm not rebounding as well as I Experiments or not, the Irishthe ACC. "I am very happy with 
should be, but as time progresses, I were able to register that elusivethe win, and it won't be our last." 
think I'll get back into shape." first victory, though the schedule doesn't get any easier. St. Louis is 
8,126 fans turned out to see the The Crusaders opened the game 
the next stop, where 6-71'2 guardsixteenth meeting between the with a 1-2-2 zone defense, but Harry Rogers will lead hisintrastate rivals. With John switched back to their usual man­Billikens against Notre DameShumate and Gary Novak con­to-man after a time out with a little Saturday night. The Irish thentrolling the boards, the Irish over seven minutes gone. "It (the return to the ACC next Tuesdayjumped off to an early lead, then zone defense) proved ineffective," evening for the annual battle with kept cool as stubborn Valpo commented Purden. "We don't still another Big Ten foe, Indiana.
scrapped back to within six points normally play zone, so it was more
of what had been a comfortable 16-­
or a makeshift zone. We had heard 
point halftime cushion (45-29). •
that they (Notre Darnel had some 
Orange Bowl --a Husker's VIeW
trouble with it against Ohio State."
The Crusaders stayed close throughout the first nine minutes off straight
N.D. rattled ten by Frank Wittliff nhuskers, but they chose Texas are out of the running for the
of the second session, and began points to break a 4-4 tie and grab a This year's Orange Bowl doesn't and the Cotton Bowl. The Crimson national championship; they havetheir final charge with N.D. 
15-6 lead when Valpo went to the 
leading, 62-49. 6-8 John Wolfen­feature two undefeated college Tide was criticized harshly by lost the Big Eight title for the first 
man-to-man. The switch didn't 
football teams, nor does it have a many, including Irish coach Ara time since 1968. They lost and tiedberg, Valpo's leading scorer and matter much, though, as the Irish candidate for the national Parseghian, for taking the easy teams they should have beatenan All-Indiana Collegiate Con­rolled on to a 26-9 advantage, and it 
championship. But this year's way out. Devaney was more than (UCLA and Iowa State). Whatference selection last year, threw wasn't until Wolfenberg entered 
game does bring two traditional generous toward Alabama by happened?
in '). pair of long jumpers, and soph the lineup that the losers could 
Midwest powers together for the recognizing their right to go to any "We didn't play well," PittsMilt McGee hit from the baseline generate much offense. 
first time in a quarter of a century. bowl. But Pitts admitted his remarked. "Our offense had fiveto pull within seven points of the This game is more important to personal choice for bowl com-and six turnovers and our defense
Irish. A senior from Wauwatosa, Wis., 
the players and coaches than to petition by saying, "We would had to play much more thanWolfenberg usually starts, but was
A pair of Gary Brokaw free anyone else. Notre Dame has a have loved to play Alabama again, usual."
benched last night in favor of
throws offset Wolfenberg's follow­chance to prove itself as a powerful but they just didn't want to play Nebraska's defense usually
senior Lynn Seyfert. "Seyfert had 
up bucket, then Shumate hit on a team to a large, night, prime-time us." plays four downs and then ,turns
played three good ball games, and 
three-point play to put the Irish television audience. It can prove Pitts rejected any comparisons the ball over to the offense. Against 
Wolfenberg looked very poor
ahead by ten, 67-57, with 7: 12 to go. itself as a respectable opponent of Notre Dame to their common UCLA and Iowa State they played 
against Illinois Monday night,"
Valpo kept fighting, though. , and dispel thoughts that they won opponent, Missouri. Nebraska more. "We could neither catch nor
Purden said. "It was just a matter
McGee hammered in a ten-footer, only because of the lack of quality destroyed the Tigers, 62-0, a week even hold on to the ball in thos
of one player meriting the chance
and Wolfenberg banged home in their schedule. before Missouri played the Irish in games. We just played two bad
to start more than another."
another long bomb that got the Nebraska has a chance to end South Bend. The severe beating games this year," Pitts remarked. 
All Seyfert did was commit three 
Crusaders within six, but that was . Bob Devaney's coaching career on Missouri took in Lincoln made a Many people have been critica'
fouls in the first 71;2 minutes, so 
as close as they came. a winning note by beating a team team out of them. On successive of Nebraska for running up scores
Wolfenberg came on and started to 
Devaney's always wanted to Saturdays, Missouri edged two on easy opponents for the sake ofshoot. hitting for ten points in thePhelps called time to regroup his play. Devaney wanted to schedule powerhouses, Notre Dame and national rankings. Pitts doesn't seeremainder of the opening half and troops with 5:47 left, and the Irish 
Notre Dame back in 1970 as an Colorado. it that way. "We don't try to run uphelping keep big "Shue" fromcame out to win. A short jumper eleventh game but the Irish "We both played Missouri and scores purposely on our opponents. 
taking complete control of theby Novak, followed by Shumate's 
wouldn't consider the extra game. we know what happened there. But We play our first string the wholegame.
layup moved the lead back into 
So now Devaney has his chance to that isn't a fair judgment of Notre first half. And then if we have a bigdouble figures. Brokaw added a Wolfenberg finished with 26 conclude a successful coaching Dame. When we played Missouri, enough lead we put the second and pair of free throws, and Pete points for the night, a basket more career by defeating the Irish. we played well, too well for Notre third teams in after the first couple 
Crotty also sank a foul shot to strong side
than Shumate totalled. Brokaw Nebraska's Dame's sake," Pitts said. of series of the second half."
make it 74-61 and all but clinch the was next with 23 (seven baskets, linebacker, Johnny Pitts, is ex-Missouri came to South Bend Nebraska has been blessed with ball game. 
nine of 11 from the line), and cited about playing Notre Dame. A with something to prove and Notre a lot of depth. Their second team 
Valpo coach Bill Purden was Novak helped out with 14 points native of Flint, Mich., where Notre Dame became the victim. Pitts has the abilit:v to score points and quick to praise the Irish, Shumate and 15 rebounds. Dame is a household word, Pitts echoed many people's feelings by that's bound to· make Devaney in particular. "I don't think Notre Torrid shooting kept Notre says, "Growing up, all I ever heard saying "Missouri is the most happy. Pitts stressed the im­Dame was ready for us. They had Dame from losing control, as the was Notre Dame this and Notre improved team in the nation." And portance of the second and third just come off a disappointing loss Irish clicked on an excellent 49.2 Dame that. So playing Notre Dame then he added "I'm just glad we teams to Nebraska. "A coach can't to Ohio State, and they did not play per cent of their shots from the is something I'm personally played them before Notre Dame tell the second and third teams not as well as they are capable of." field. Turnovers, however, still looking forward to." did." to score because I think it would 
"We needed a real big, physical loom as a problem, with N.D. Notre Dame wasn't Nebraska's Nebraska lost two games and hurt the team's morale. And when man to cope with Shumate," throwing the ball away 24 times, first choice to play in the Orange tied-one in a season that can't be a team has the depth that we have, Purden added. "Even when we eight more than the Crusaders. Bowl. Alabama seemed like the considered successful for the 1970 your second and third teams will were in a man-to-man, we were Shumate was with the obvious choice to play the Cor~ and 1971 national champions. They score." 
-·~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~:~:;:~:=::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:~:~:~:~:~::::::::::::::: 
The Irish Eye 
:::::::::::::=:=:=:::=:=:=:=:=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::::Continued from page 1 2 
Linebacker -Tim Kelly 

Co-captain of the '70 Irish, Kelly started at outside linebacker for three years. Not only a hard-nosed tackler who could really stick a ball carrier, Kelly also had a couple of in­terceptions as a senior. 
Linebacker -Eric Patton 

Notre Dame's swing linebacker in '70 and '71, Patton never received much recognition but always got his job done. He called defensive signals on a unit that gave up only 194 points in the 21 games he was a regular. 
Linebacker -Jim O'Malley 
O'Malley started the '72 season by being named the UPI's Lineman of the Week for his performance in the Northwestern game and he kept up that brand of ball all year, leading the team in tackles made. 
Defensive back -Ralph Stepaniak 
Stepaniak stepped into the starting lineup in the second game of the '69 season and went on to tie, with Clarence Ellis, as Notre Dame's number two man in career pass interceptions with 13. He was a sure tackler. 
Defensive back -Mike Townsend 
Holder of the single season record for pass interceptions (10) the"Little T" threw a big scare into opposing passers this fall. Good speed, an excellent sense of timing and a great pair of hands helped Townsend to the record. 
Defensive back -Clarence Ellis . 
Along with Stepaniak, Ellis is second in Irish career pass interceptions with 13. Named to All-American teams in his junior and senior years, Ellis was chosen the Most Valuable !.: •. Defensive Player in Notre Dame's 24-11 Cotton Bowl victory over Texas in 1971. He set an Irish record for passes broken up in '69, knocking down 13. 
.. : .;,... Punter-Brian Doherty 
Consistently punting high boots around 40 years in length, Doherty has aided Notre Dame's field-position-oriented attack the past two years. He knows how to put the ball out of bounds deep in enemy territory. 
\\.._._.., ..._,._ .. "' ................... ._ ... _._'l'c"ft...._._.._ .. a.•.. '-'A."..-..,.,.,..",-rv-··•"~1(.~ 1>1_,..,. __,, •.;.. ,~-.,.._ •. , • •·• • ._.,.,<r 

Big John Shumate going up for two of his 24 points in Notre Dame's 82-72 victory over Valparaiso last night. Looking on are Gary Brokaw (25) and Valpo's Tonr Haeberle (left), Harold Green (23), and Wally Schultz (43). 
---------------------------------~----­
the observer 


' . 
< 

c~ 
Back -Clarence E11is Linebacker -Tim Kelly
Jim Don a Idson:::::::::::::::::::~:¥-:.:~:.:::=::~.;::~il!=:::OJ::::::;:=::::!:::I:::·:::::_::::::~::;::~:::!:t=:=:::::::::::;:::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::.
Back -Mike Townsend
-
The Irish Eye ==============:::;;;:::::.·-'':::::.::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:?::::::::A Dream Defense ---'69 -'72 
: A lot of fine athletes have played football for Notre Dame since the present senior class 
······~··arrived in the fall of 1969. And, although the Fighting Irish haven't won a national cham­·. pionship in the past four years, they have compiled a 34-7-1 record over that span and have . earned three major bowl bids. 
• Defense has been a byword for these recent outstanding Irish squads. The 1970 team, . which posted a 10-1 record, finished second in the final national rankings and ended Texas' ) :lo-game winning streak in the '71 Cotton Bowl, gave up just lOB points in 11 games. 
) Last year's club, led by one of the school's greatest front fours, Walt Patulski, Greg Marx, .. jMike Kadish and Fred Swendsen, yielded only 86 points in 10 games, the lowest total since ··the national championship season of 1966. The '71 dlefense was a veteran unit. Marx was the 
only underclassman in the front line, the secondary featured three seniors, Clarence Ellis, "Haiph Stepaniak and Mike Crotty and two of the linebackers, Eric Patton and Rich Thomann, were seniors. ..•., •••...,.•.•,..,, ····•'•?•••••'''''•'·· 
The '72 defense reflected those graduation losses and was the most vulnerable Irish · defense since 1961!, yielding 152 points. The '69 club, with standouts Mike McCoy at tackle and Bob Olson at linebacker, was touched for 134 points in 11 games. 
Notre Dame shutout three opponents in each of the last four years and held 23 clubs to seven points or less. As Walt Patulski, a consensus All-American at defensive end in '71 and co-captain that fall said, "Our defensive team here has a special pride and a special spirit all its own." 
The 12 men pictured on this page comprise a defensive team one can truly point to pride. They are, in one man's opinion, the finest defensive players Notre Dame has :;ince 1969. It would take a super offensive team, a team of the caliber that will appear in Friday's Observer, to score on this talented defensive unit. 
Tackle -Greg Marx End -Walt Patulski

Here, then, are the very best men to play defense for the Irish in the past four years: 
End -Walt Patulski Probably the nation's best lineman in 1971, Patulski was a unanimous All-American choice and won the Vince Lombardi Trophy for outstanding line play. Possessing great size, speed and strength, Patulski terrorized opposing defenses for three seasons. He made 17 

> 

. tackles for losses and was the first player selected in last year's pro football draft. 
~,, 
. 
End -Fred Swendsen 

. ~6/t . Patulski's running mate, "Big Swede" lettered for the Irish from '69 through '71.blocked ll !illil~'
highlight of his career came in the Purdue game last year when he recovered a The :•············· Boilermaker punt in the end zone in the waning minutes to set up a miraculous, come-from 
~l'l iJ:ftttt~ I t~behind. B-7 Notre Dame victory. 
· Tackle -Mike McCoy 

A21!0-pounder who could move with the speed of a halfback, McCoy was a unanimous All­American in 1969. His blocking of a Southern Cal punt that year set up a Notre Dame's second touchdown in a 14-14 tie that spoiled the Trojans' otherwise perfect record. McCoy 
l'anks as one of the all-time great Insh defensive linemen. · 
Tackle -Greg Marx l\larx was the only veteran on Notre Dame's young defensive line this fall and the 
defensive co-captain responded with an All-American performance. For two years, Marx was one of college football's best-ever front fours (Patulski, Mike Kadish and were the other members) and has also received recognition as an Academic All-America 
the past two seasons. 

Linebacker -Bob "Bobo" Olson A tremendously hard hitter, Olson was co-captain of the Fighting Irish in '68 and '69. Hespected by teammates and opponents alike, "Bobo's" defensive play helped Notre Dame 
Linebacker -Bob Olson 

to an 8-2-1 record in '69andits first bowl appearance in 45 years. 
Linebacker -dim O'Malley 
Continued on page 11 
.liP\ 
, :+t;J 
("'••" 
.. .,.:,t·.
·,,./ 

• J 
Linebacker -Eric Patton 

Punter -Brian Doherty 
Tackle -Mike McCoy 
End -Fred Swendsen 







