On The Inside 
Abortion reactions ...page 3 Johnson mourned ...page 5 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VII No. 65 

Cease-fire declared 
(C) 1973 New York Times 
Washington. Jan. 23--President Nixon said that Henry A. Kissinger and North Vietnam's chi~f negotiator. Le Due Tho , had initialed an agreement m Paris today "to end the war and bring peace with honor in Vietnam and Southeast Asia." 
In a televised report to the nation, a few hours after Kissinger had returned to Washington, Nixon said a eease-fire in Vietnam would go into effect at 7 P.M. washington time on Saturday. Simultaneous an­nouncements were made in Hanoi and in Saigon. 
Nixon said that under the terms of the accord--which will be formally signed on Saturday also--all American prisoners of war would be released and the remaining 23,5000-man American force in S~uth Vietnam would be withdrawn within a 60-day penod. 
Obviously pleased by the long-awaited developmell:t, ending the longest war in American history, Nixon sa1d that the Hanoi-Washington agreement "meets the goals" and has the "full support" of the President Nguyen Van Thieu of South Vietnam. . 
Thieu earlier had expressed strong reservations about the draft agreement worked out by Kiss.inger, Nixon's adviser on National Security, and Tho m Oc­tober. 
Nixon only sketched the outline of the accord. The 
full text of the agreement and accompanying protoc?ls 
will be issued tomorrow by joint agreement w1th 
Hanoi. he said. 

It was not possible, for instance, to determine from 
Nixon's 10-minute address what changes have taken 
place in the agreement since October. . . 
In his brief description of the accord, N1xon sa1d that 
they cease-fire would be "internationally supervised," 
a reference to the projected force of Canadians, 
Hungarians. Indonesians and Poles who will supervise 
the truce. But he did not say how large the force would 
be. The United States has wanted a highly mobile force 
numbering about 5,000. The North Vietnamese have 
suggested substantially less. . 
Nixon also said nothing about the controvers1al 
problem of the demilitarized zone dividing the two 
Vietnams. Saigon has wanted this line reaffirmed to 
make sure that legally there are two Vietnams, and 
Hanoi had resisted this. All he said on the subject was 
that people of South Vietnam "have been guarant~ed 
the right to determine their own future without outs1de 
interference. 

Last fall. Nixon insisted that he would only agree to a 
"peace with honor," and he insisted tonight that 
today's accord met "the goals that we considered 
essential for peace with honor." 
In Saigon. Wednesday, Jan. 24, President Nguyen 
Van Thieu declared that he considered the peace ac­
cord reached in Paris only as a cease-fire that did not 
guarantee "a stable, long-lasting peace." 
While claiming that the agreement demonstrated 
that Communist agression against the south had "been 
smashed," Thieu said: 

"Let me say frankly of the peace accord to be signed 
in three days that I only consider it as a cease-fire 
agreement. As to whether or not we will have real 
peace. we must wait and see. 
"I say this is only a cease-fire agreement, not more 
or less. In the days to come, we will see if the Com-

Nixon: Today's accord meets "the goals that we considered essential for peace with honor." 
munists will.observe the agreement." 
Thieu made his declarations in a 4o-minute speech 
broadcast to the South Vietnamese people this mor­
ning. The beginning of his speech was timed to coincide 
with the radio and television address by President 
Nixon. which was broadcast on the armed forces radio 
here. But Thieu continued long after Nixon had con­
cluded his talk. 
Thieu made two principal points in the speech: That 
North Vietnam had lost the war and therefore had been 
forced to make significant concessions to the South, 
and that the agreement reached in Paris fell short of 
assuring a lasting peace in South Vietnam. 
Like Nixon, Thieu announced that a cease-fire would 
go into effect throughout South Vietnam at 8 A.M. 
Saigon time Sunday morning. 
"After 18 years," he said, "The Communistshad to 
stop their aggression. This is thanks to our gallantry. 
The army of South Vietnam and the people have 
smashed their military aggression." 
Thieu did not indicate whether his government had 
signed or would sign the peace agreement. 
He said merely that the accord would be signed on 
Saturday "by the parties participating in the talks." 
Only North Vietnam and the United States actually 
participated in the Paris Peace Talks. 
He described the signing of the peace agreement as 
"the end of the first phase of our struggle, the phase of 
defeat of Communist Military agression," and said the 
next phase would be "a political struggle in which we 
will defeat Communist atheistic doctrine." 
The next phase of the struggle, he said, would be "not 
less dangerous and not less difficult" than the phase 
that is now ending. 
In an apparent effort to ease possible ap­
prehensions in Saigon, Nixon pledged that the United 
States would continue to recognize Thieu's regime "as 
the sole legitimate government of South Vietnam." 
He also pledged--"within the terms of the 
agreement"--to continue to supply assistance to South Vietnam "and we shall support efforts for the people of South Vietnam to settle their problems peacefully among themselves." 
The actual agreement is understood to provide machinery for the eventual reconciliation of the Saigon Government with the Vietcong, but officiials here have expressed doubts in recent days that the two rivals for power would be able to resolve their hostility. 
Nixon referred to "peace" in Southeast Asia, suggesting that the accord extended to Laos and Cambodia , which have also been engaged in the war. But there was no direct mention of those two nations today. and it is not known if the cease-fire extends to them as well. 
Calling onall parties to "scrupulously" adhere to the agreement, Nixon, in an indirect reference to Russia and China, said "We shall also expect other interested nations to help insure that the agreement is carried out and peace is maintained." 
Secretary of State William P. Rogers was due to represent the United States at the formal signing Saturday, and the foreign ministers of North Vietnam, South Vietnam, and the provisional Revolutionary Government <Viet Cong) were also expected to par­ticipate in the ceremonies in Paris at the International Conference Center where Kissigner and Tho met today and where the formal substantive talks began Jan. 25, 1969, 
The agreement will mark the end of the longest war ever waged by the United States, a war that never was formally declared by Washington and that often lacked widespread public support. It ends more than 10 years of direct American military involvement in South Vietnam. 
The debate over the war produced sharp divisions within the country and contributed to Lyondon B. Johnson's decision in 1968 not to run for office again. 
(continued on page 7) 

IUIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
(C) 1973 New York Times 
Hong Kong. Wednesday, Jan. 24--North Vietnam announced today the agreement to end the war in Vietnam in a com unique issued by Hanoi's Ministry for Foreign Affairs. 
The communique was transmitted abroad from Hanoi by North Vietnam's official news agency as President Nixon was making his television an­nouncement on the agreement. 
The text of the Hanoi communique, which the agency said had been agreed upon between North Vietnam and the United States, was as follows: 
"At 12:30 Paris time on Jan. 23, 1973, the 'Agreement on ending the war and restoring peace in Vietnam' was initiated by special adviser Le Due Tho on behalf of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam and Dr. Henry Kissinger on behalf of the United States. 
The agreement will be formally signed by the parties of the Paris conference on Vietnam on Jan. 27, 1973 at the International Conference Center in Paris. The cease-fire will take effect at 2400 GMT Jan. 27, 1973. 
"The Democratic Republic of Vietnam and the United States express the hope that this agreement will insure stable peace in Vietnam and contribute to the preservation of lasting peace in Indochina and "outheast Asia." 
lllliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiUIIIIIftiiiiiiiiiiiiiUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIHIIIItUilHI 

Mass in special commemoration of Lyndon Johnson, who died Monday, will be celebrated by Fr. Theodore Hesburgh at 5:15 today in Sacred Heart Church. 
Hesburgh, president of ND, was a personal friend of the late president. He served as a member of the Civil Rights Commission during Johnson's entire administration. 
"The verdict of history will probably make Johnson the greatest of President's," said Hesburgh at a press conference. "He did more for practical emancipation, for civil rights, than any other President." 
Hesburgh received the Congressional medal of honor from Johnson in 1964. 
Students cite inaccuracies 
Kovatch contradicted 
by Maria Gallagher St. Mary's Editor 

Several reports contradicting St. Mary's Security Chief Anthony Kovatch's account of an incident involving alleged gunshots over the weekend were recieved by The Observer yesterday following publication of the story on Monday. 
Mary Regent, Regina Hall Council member, called to report that a Security officer told her that blank cartridges were fired while pursuing male intruders. Another student r.onfirmed this report by stating that Security Officer McCormmick told her that he had fired two blank car­tridges. Both these reports are contrary to Kovatch's statement that the sound heard was "firecrackers." 
Regent. who originally reported the five· men at large on fifth floor Regina North, also claimed that the story con­
"The time of the incident was around 
1:30 a.m. -definitely not after curfew," she said in reference to Kovatch's placement of the time as between 2:00 and 3:00a.m., or after the curfew limit. 
She added that she later heard a com­motion outside and what she said sounded like a gunshot, and then called Security because she "hated to see the guys going through alii this," and wanted to make sure they weren't accused of any false charges." 
Regent then went to the ·Security 
building where the guards asked her to 
identify the one student who was caught. 
Another student reported a third 
inaccuracy in the report, one concerning 
the single Notre Dame student ap­
prehended!. 

"He didn't turn himself in, as Kovatch stated in the paper; he was caught hiding in the bushes," she said after revealing 
tained several other inaccuracies. (continued on page 7)
IIIUDJIUIIIIIIIIIIIUllUUllllUIUIDUIIIIIIDIIDIUIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIDIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIUIIIUIIIIHIIIUIIIIH 
--~­

r----------------------------------------­
the observer Wednesday, January 24, 1973 

warld briefs 
(t') 1!172 New York Times 

Paris -· Henry A. Kissinger and Le Due Tho concluded their long negotiations on a Vietnam cease-fire Tusday with glowing smiles and hearty handshakes. As always, however, they emerged from their final session without a word, leaving it to their capitals to announce that they had at last achieved success. 
Washington--In an assessment of the impact of the Vietnam War on American life, James Reston writes that one thing is fairly clear: "There has been a sharp decline in respect for authority in the United States as aresult of the war--not only a decline in respect for the civil authority of government, but for the moral authority of the schools, the universities, the press, the church and even the family. 
Washington --A witness said that $199,000 in cash payments to a defendannt in the Watergate Trial in Washington had been approved by former Attorney General John N. Mitchell and Former Secretary of Commerce Maurice H. Stans. The money was siid to have gone to 
G. Gordon Liddy, a lawyer for President Nixon's campaign organization. wh had been assined to establish what another witness described as "an intelligence gathering operation." 
5-6:30 p.m. --registration for neigh­borhood study help program (tutoring), south dining hall 
6:30p.m.--meeting, nd sailing club, 204 engineering 7:00p.m.--auditions for mime show, moreau little theatre, smc 
7:00p.m.--meeting, amateur radio club, club house behind Holy Cross hall 
7:30 p.m. lecture, "northern ireland: yesterday and today," by david doyle, Ioyoia univ., carroll hall 
7:31' p.m. --field education con­ference, "formation in theological education," rev. krister stendahl, dean of harvard university divinity school, center for con­tinuing education 
9:00 p.-11. --meeting, charismatic prayer, holy cross hall 
r 
Academic Council proposes member cut 
The Academic Council yesterday asked its steering committee to reconsider its proposal to reduce the size of the Council from 63 to 29 members. 
Discussion of this proposed revision of the Faculty Manual was lollowed by a straw vote of the ('ouncil which revealed little support for the reduction, primarily because it would l'lirninate representation of some campus constituencies. 

The Council did initially ap­prove. without major modification, existing Faculty Manual sections or contracts. faculty services, faculty salaries. retirement, and leaves of absence. 
In an initial discussion of the section on the Faculty Senate, the Academic Council rejected a provision of the Faculty Senate revision proposal which would have made elected Academic Council l'acultv members also ex­
. 

Deb aters attend tourney 
Seniors Jack Keeney and Brian Kelly placed Notre Dame into the limelight of the college debate world when they chalked up a 7-1 record in preliminary rounds in the Southwest Missouri State Debate 

r Tournament held in Springfield,
'
t 1\l issouri over the holidays. Out of a field of over sixty teams, K<'nney and Kelly ranked as the
~ 
f'omth-seat.ed learn. defeating the r University of Kansas. Iowa State, Washington and Jefferson, Em­poria. Emory. Ohio State and Texas Tech. 
The Irish lost their octofinal elimination round, however. to a team from Emporia in a very close decision. The preliminary record, nevertheless. marks one of the best Irish efforts in championship t·ompetition. 
SMC alumnae to gather 
SMC' alumnae from across the nation converge on the campus for a three-day meeting. starting toda~·. The theme of the meeting is. "You are St. Mary's." 
Dr. ll<•nry will greet the alumnae nwmbers with remarks at the opPning session. today. Saint !\I •n·~· 's College faculty will join the <llumnae today for a reception I ollcming the business meetings. Tomorrow a similar reception will lw held with the College's current ~l'nior class and student leaders il nd eounselors of all four classes. 
This meeting is designed to eommunicate through personal l'Ontact to the alumnae the new paths and luture roads of the College. Each major ad­ministrative and academic 

department  will  review  the  
College's  activities  with  the  
group.  
Alumnae  are  housed  in  the  

College's residence halls. Each has a student hostess, to enable her to closely relate to the Saint Mary's College of today, through personal dialogue with students. Alumnae will also have the op­portunity to attend classes through observation, and share liturgy with the students. 
CAC Dance and Drama Series presents 

MARCEL MARCEAU 
..The World·s Greatest Mime .. 
Tickets on sale NOW! CAC office (4th floor La Fortune) 1-4 p.m. daily and 
The American National Bank Main Branch Main Floor $4.50. Balcony: $3.·50 Feb 16th O'Laughlin 8 p.m. All Seats Reserved 
officio members of the Faculty Senate. 
The Council approved the ehange of the name of the Department of Geology to the Department of Earth Sciences, a term broad enough to include new areas such as geochemistry, geophysics and oceanography. 
1 The change will effective next September 1. Near I he end of its meeting in the Ccnter for Continuing Education, the Council discussed an ap­propriate way in which the campus could observe the end of the 
Vietnam War when it comes. Al'ademic Commissioner Ed Ellis raised the matter before the Council. which seemed disinclined 
he Observer is published daily during 
he college semester except vacations by 
he students of the L' niversity of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Sub­scriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester ( 14 per year) from The Ob­server, l'ox Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
loward marking the event with an immediate free day while favoring somt' sort of liturgical ceremony. Father James T. Burtchaell, 
C.S.C.. provost. was given the task of planning an observance, possibly one which would also involve off-campus perple. Fr. Burtchaell and Ellis will meet WPdrwsday to discuss ideas. 

Coming Soon I 
''2001: 
A Space Odyssey'' 
ONE SHOWING ONLY SAT. FEB. 17 at 8:00p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium at SMC 
Let yourself in on savings•••it's our mid-winter 



SAVINGS EVENT 
you save 

on famous name, university-styled apparel 
Sport Coats at one-fourth and one-third off. 2-trouser 
doubleknit suits one-fourth off. Robert Bruce Bike Stuff, 
ralues to $15. now $9.90. Flannel shirts, reg. $6, now $4.50. 
Sw<·aters & Shirts. reg. $20, $22, $23 now $14.90. Large group 
or swcaters, values to $15, now $9.90. Jackets, CPO'S at 
savings of as much as one-half. Shirts & tops, values to $22, 
now one-half. Cut 'n Sewn long sleeve shirts, reg. $15, now 
$!L!>O. All this and more during this savings event! 

... 
PAY NEXT SUMMER Pay one-third in June. one-third 

. in July, one-third in August and na service or carrying charge is added .to your account. 
ON mE CAMPUS • .• NOTRE DAME 

~· ~-~~--~-----~ 

l, 
Wednesday, January 24, 1973 the observer 
3 

Fr. Toohey expresses dismay 
ND-SMC reacts to abortion ruling 
by Marlene Zloza Staff Reporter 

Campus reactions to Monday's Supreme Court ruling in favor of a liberalized abortion law included surprise and some degree of un­preparedness. 
Notre Dame's Director of Campus Ministry Fr. William Toohey used the words "surprise, dismay and astonishment" to describe his feelings toward the 7-2 ruling. "I consider this a decision against the affirmation of life, and in this day of multiple death, that affirmation is needed." said Fr. Toohey. 
After two years of study, the Supreme Court ruled that a woman has the absolute right during her first three months of pregnancy to decide whether to hear the child. During the next three months. states may regulate the medical aspects of abortion, SU{.'h as the licensing of physicians. dinics and hospitals. From the seventh month on. the state can forbid all abortions except those Psscntial to save the mother's life or health. 
"The most painful thing," said Fr. Toohey," is the inconsistency of the war protests and the respect for life (ecology movementl in eontrast to the disregard for the unborn and their welfare." 
The Campus Ministry director 
elaborated with the example of 
people who decry the bombing 
because of the risk to civilian lives 
that may be in the area. but don't 
mind 'taking a chance on 
destroying the possible life of the 
unborn child. 
f<'r. Toohey expressed 
agreement with the dissenting 
opinion of Justic Byron R. White, 
who said. "The court apparently 
\'alues the convenience of the 
pregnant mother more than the 
eontinued existence and 


Send THE OBSERVER 
Long distance still is the next

home this semester 
best thing to being there. And you can save money by calling 
It makes a great 
nights or weekends. 
lining for the bird 
cage for only $8.00. 
The Observer Subscription Dept. 
Box Q 
University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
Name 
Address 

City_______ State Zip ___ 
Is this a subscription from last semester? Yes __ No_ 
If yes is this a new address? Yes_ No 


@Indiana Bell
If yes what is the old address? 
development of the life, or the decision of the Supreme Court 
potential life. which she carries." disallowing the states to protect According to the majority the rights of the unborn and for not opinion. the legal rights of the fetus granting the benefit of the doubt to are not protected by the state. . the fetus. Apart from any national .Justic Blackmun said there is no or · judicial influence, in moral basis for the theory in the Con­decisions individuals still have the stitution and "the unborn have responsibility to act out of a well­never been recognized in the law formed and sensitive conscience as persons in the whole sense." which respects and safeguards the Fr. Toohey called this "non­sanctity of life. It is gratifying to sense." pointing out that people hear clearly and continually the don't have to be persons in the \'Oice of the Catholic Church ·whole' sense to be protected. proclaiming that life is to be lived, 
Those under eighteen years of age that all life is to be respected, don't have all the rights of older particularly the innocent life of the citizens vet no one condones their 
unborn." 
murder.· Ifsuch protection is not in Fr. Toohey stressed the im­the Constitution. maybe it portance of including all concerned should be. maybe we need another people in the protest against Amendment." asserted Fr. abortion on demand. "This is not a Toohey. Catholic issue. as is the use of 
Fr. Roger Cormier and Fr. Ned contraceptives. but a humanistic Heidy of the St. Mary's Campus one: anyone who believes in the Ministry released a statement a ffirma.tion of life should be Tuesday that agrees in general against legalized abortion," he with Fr. Toohey's comments: said. 
"Colleagues among the St. "The crucial hope is for a 1\lary's College faculty. in dif­massive educative campaign, for ferent disciplines. are appalled at if people could be guided by con­
science. there wouldn't be a need for abortion laws." added Fr. Toohey. 
Katie Duffy. a member of the Steering Committee for the ND Women's Caucus. also feels the decision should be up to the woman and that it is a moral decision, but 

HOW ARE THINGS AT HOME? 

Fr. Toohey: "I consider this a decision against the affirmation of life." 
she sees laws forbidding the choice lions should be readily available as immoral. immediately, while others were 
"The Caucus has not specifically more cautious. preferring to wait discussed the abortion issue, but for a a new !'tate law or at least but I would say that we feel it clarifications. should be a personal decision not to be regulated by the states. In this Some Michigan counties are 
sense we favor a liberalized law already planning abortion clinics 
but personally we are pretty and state legal authorities ap­
conservative." said Duffy. peared unprepared to consider any 
immediate ramifications. 
..As for myself." Duffy added, "I couldn't make the individual St. Joseph County Prosecuting decision in favor of it." Attorney William Vorr, when 
contacted Tuesday, preferred to 
According to the Detroit Free reserve comment until he had 
Prc>ss. some Michigan doctors studied the official ruling in its 
expressed the opinion that abor-entirety. 

No aid for Nicaraguans 
Notre Dame has promised In a front-page Observer story 
nothing in the way of financial aid Monday, Roberto Salvo, a Notre 
to the Nicaraguan students whose Dame student from Managua,
homes were destroyed in the noted Mrs. McCauslin had men­
December 23 earthquake, ac­tioned the possibility of as much as 
eording to Mrs. June McCauslin $1200 to be available in a com­
director of Financial Aid. ' bination grant and loan program to 
Nicaraguan students. 
Mrs. McCauslin explained that 
the University is not involved in "It does not seem to be a big 
financial aid to foreign students. problem." said McCauslin, since 
They usually are supported by only one Nicaraguan has applied 
family funds. are sent by their for aid thus far. 
government. or are exchange Milton Caldera. a Nicaraguan 
students. student. declined to comment. 
1
,, 
1 1 
l 1 
l 
1 
1 1 
I 1 
,l 
, 


r r 
r 
r 
~ 
r 
' 
'r 
r 

~
I ~ 
5i 


I = =
5 

Vietnam War Casualties (1961 through Jan. 13, 1973) 
Military 
I

UNITED STATES--45,933 killed and 303,616 wounded <with 153,300 of these requiring hospitalization). i SOUTH VIETNAM--183,528 killed and 499,026 wounded <all requiring hospitalization). NORTH VIETNAM AND VIETCONG--924,048 (an estimate by South Vietnamese command. Figures on wounded not available.) 
Civilian 

415.000 South Vietnamese civilians killed and 935,000 wounded as result of combat. 1965 through 1972 <estimates provided by U.S. Senate Subcommittee on Refugees and Escapees). 
:n .463 South Vietnamese killed and 49,000 abducted as result of Vietcong actions against civilians, 1966 through 1972 <figures from 
U.S. Defense Department>.
r 20,587 killed and 28,978 jailed as result of Saigon Government actions against civilian Vietcong, 1968 through May, 1971 <figures from U.S. Agency for International Development>. 
Peace in Vietnam Thank God. 



THE OBSERVER 
~IIUIIIIIIUI......_IIIIIRIIIIIIIIDIIIIIHIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIRIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIDIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII= 
• 
Wednesday, January 24, 1973 
the observer 
5 

Nation mourns death of Johnson 
by Roy Reed 
(C) 1973 New York Times 

Austin. Tex .. Jan. 23--Thousands of Texans of all ages filed past the coffin of Lyndon B. Johnson today as his body Jay in state in the huge library bearing his name at the University of Texas. · 
In Washington. President Nixon an­nounced that Thursday would be a national day of mourning and that all federal offices would be closed. All state offices and buildings in New York, Connecticut and Nt>w Jersey will close at noon Thursday. 
Nixon sent a message to Congress of­ficially informing it of the death of the 36th President. He praised Johnson for having held the nation ''on course" after the assassination of President Kennedy in 1963. 
"If he had done no more," Nixon said, "his place in history would have been assured. But he did much more, and his role 
Far What lt5s Warth 

..\ ND-SMC Must 

Answer the Questions 
dan ruane 
A lot of significant things have been making headlines this past wt>ek. There were Lewis Hall, and all the questions it raised; the start of a new graduate student judicial code, a law suit seeking a declaratory statement in a tenure decision; and most recently the report that certain faculty salaries will be frozen and that others can expect only a minimum increase in the next three years. 
And that is only on this side of the road. 
Over yonder they too have a significant dispute about tenure, and their security has also been called into question. In the tenure dispute, a question of due process has been raised, as well as the question of secrecy. while security hasbecome a1uestionable model of safety for the campus. 
Unfortunately for the administrations of Notre Dame and St. Mary's all of this publicity has not been favorable, and at times downright t>mbarrassing from some perspectives. In a large degree they are responsible for this. 
Both institutions maintain a policy which views questions of faculty tenure and salary, and disciplinary cases as private matters between the institutional representatives and the party involved. Both can do this because they are private institutions and do not have to answer to the general public. 
However. neither seems to want to answer to the party involved. And they don't particularly care to consult the involved party either, except by superficially accepting recommendations from various faculty and student committees, which produces a nice aura of democracy. Unfortunately the recommendations are usually ignored once they are submitted. 
In tenure and salary cases the information need not be broadcast across eampus. but explanations are in order for the faculty since they must live with the direct consequences of the decisions. For tenure deeisions in particular. it follows that if we are in the university to seek and improve knowledge that a person be told his weakness so that he nwv correct it. and be a better student. 
When the institution refuses to give the reasons, or tries to change a previous written commitment without cause, then it subjects that over-extended privacy policy to public scrutiny, and the institution to unnecessary crticism of its employee-employer relationship. 
Blunders like the Lewis Hall incident are exceptional cases. The identity of the woman has undoubtedly circulated widely via the grapevined. and there has been a report that the case was known beyond the Notre Dame community before the story broke in the Observer. While the identity of the woman should remain protected as best possible. many questions of due process and exploitation of the situation (the woman's unfamiliaritywith United States legal system, and her fear of losing her visa are examples) have been raised. The t lniversity should attempt to make public answers to public questions and show its desire to rectify its mistakes. Otherwise it looks as if the tlniversity is willing to chalk it up to experience and leave justice unsatisfied. That is not a very nice image for a Christian university. 
Now to jump across the road to St. Mary's. Her tenure case is similar. and her security has been brought into the shadow of doubt, doubt as serious as that about security here at Notre Dame. 
The question is whether a security officer fired bullets or blanks, or whether it was simply firecrackers that exploded as Security chased three Domers sneaking into one of the dorms Sunday morning. There are three reports. including one from a hall director, which say bullets had been fired. If so, a full inv~stigation is absolutely necessary. There is no excuse for such action. One security officer is reported to have resigned because of the way the situation has been handled. There is sufficient question to demand answers from St. Mary's. 
Both Notre Dame and St. Mary's owe us some answers. They know the questions. and the objects of those questions can only be con­sidered clear and present dangers to each institution, both physically ;md morally, if satisfactory answers and solutions are not provided. 
the observer daanesbury 
then was not a high-water mark but a hallmark. For it was his noble and difficult destiny to lead America through a long, dark night of necessity at home and abroad. He had the courage to do what many of his contemporaries condemned him for, but what will surely win warm praise in the history books of tomorrow." 
Burial Thursday 
Johnson will be buried Thursday af­
ternoon at the LBJ ranch, 75 miles west of 
here. after a funeral service in Washington. 
The flag-draped coffin was brought from 
the Weed Corley Funeral Home here to the 
Library at noon. It was placed at the top of a 
long stairway in front of a long metal wall 
etched with scenes representing various 
5tages in Johnson's life. 

Johnson's widow. Lady Bird, and their 
two daughters and sons-in-law, Mr. and 
!\Irs. Charles S. Robb and Mr. and Mrs. 
Patrick J. Nugent, arrived with the coffin. 
l\1rs. Johnson was escorted by Brig. Gen. 
James Cross. retired, pilot of Air Force One 
while Johnson was president. 
Once during the brief serrice around the . eoffin. Mrs. Johnson glanced at a group of 
reporters nearby and beckoned to a woman 
she had known in Washington. The two 
women embraced, both with moist eyes, and 
after a few words of consolation, Mrs. 
.Johnson smiled and said, "oh, but didn't he 
live well!" 

There were prayers by two Austin 
ministers. the Rev. Dr. John Barclay, 
l'ormer pastor of Central Christian Church 
of Austin, and the Rev. Charles A. Summers 
of St. David's Episcopal Church. 
State and city officials and other 
dignitaries. many of whom had been friends 
of Johnson. stepped forward to speak to the 
family. 


Thousands pay homage 
Then at 1 P.M. the front doors were 
opPned and the thousands who had already 
lined up outside in the sun began to file past. 
They walked up the stairs at a steady 
pace, past the flag-draped coffin and back 
down the stairs. They were rich and ragged, 
young and old, a few of them black, a few 
Mexican-American. 

Those who reached the top of the stairs at 
:l:l5 P.M. were astonished to find that Mrs. 
.Johnson and her daughters had returned 
and were standing near the coffin greeting 
every person who walked by. For a while 
the three. red-eyed but no longer weeping, 
performed the social task they had done so 
often in the White House in the back corners 
of the country where Johnson had so 
relentlessly and frequently taken them. 
A young black man paused to speak to 
Lynda Bird, the older daughter, and she was 
heard to say. "the job remains to be done." 
Mrs. Johnson smiled frequently as she· 
shook hands with old friends in the line. She 
wore a dark blue suit. 

The coffin was surrounded by a military 
honor guard and by a constantly changing 
troup of men and women who had worked in 
the White House for Johnson. They included 
Walt W. Rostow. Johnson's foreign affairs 
adviser. who now teaches at the University 
of Texas. and George E. Christian, John­
son's press secretary, who has a public 
relations company here. 

Most of the ceremony here has been 
arranged by Christian and others who 
worked closely with Johnson. 
Tom Johnson, formerly an assistant press 
secretary in the White House and more 
recently an aide to Johnson in his 
retirement, estimated that 7,800 persons 
had walked past the coffin by 4:15p.m. The 
doors were to remain open most of the 
night for those who wished to come by. "There have been literally hundreds, perhaps thousands, of messages coming 
into the ranch, the Library and KTBC (an Austin television station once owned by the Johnsonsl," Tom Johnson said. "Many are from foreign heads of state, governors, senators. friends and associates. I have no idea how many there are." 
An autopsy last night at Brooke Army Medical Center at San Antonio showed that Johnson had died of coronary thrombosis. He was stricken yesterday afternoon in the bedroom of his home at the LBJ ranch. Secret Service men tried without success to revive him with mouth-to-mouth resuscitation and external heart massage. With a physician from Johnson City, they rushed him by airplane to the San Antonio hospital, but he apparently had died soon after the attack. 

Examined by doctor 
Tom Johnson said that the former President was examined last Thursday by 
Dr. George McGranahan, his Army physician from Brooke. McGran:1han saw Johnson at the ranch and told him his heart appeared to be stable and that his vital signs indicated no change since his last routine examination. 
McGranahan said he telephoned Johnson at 8::!0 a.m. yesterday, less than eight hours before his death, and asked him how he was feeling. He said Johnson had told him, "I feel fine," but added that he had felt some discomfort in the lower abdomen. 
The body was brought to the Austin funeral home and members of the familv went there this morning to accompany it to the Library. 
An Army band played "Hail to the Chief" as the coffin was brought from the funeral home and placed in a hearse. Several hundred soldiers lined the streets as the hearse and the cars following it drove the two miles across northern Austin to the University campus. Thousands watched at the coffin was taken from Lhe hearse to the catafalque inside. 
At the State Capitol nearby, the Texas Legislature declared Thursday a day of state mourning. The Senate passed a resolution to make Johnson's birthday, Aug. 
27. a state holiday. 
In washington, Nixon issued a proclamation urging Americans to go Thursday to "their respective places of worship. there to pay homage to the n~emory of President Johnson on the day of I hts funeral services." 
\ Nixon has arranged for Mrs. John;;on and I other members of her family to be flown to Washington. with the body, on the same Air 
l 
Force plane that carried the body of President Kennedy from Dallas to 1 Washington on November 22, 1963. It was on I that same plane, on a runway in Dallas, that Johnson took the oath of office and became 
l 
president. _At Nixon's invitation, the Johnson family wtll stay at Blair House, the official 
I Presidential guest residence, until the body is returned to Texas. 
I 
l 
Body to lie in state I j I 
The body will lie in state at the Capitol J Hotunda tomorrow. A funeral service will I be held Thursday morning at the National l City ChristiE n Church. 
Tom Johnson said that Mrs. Johnson had asked that friends. instead of sendiPg 
l tlowers. "do something in ther own com­munities to make life better." 


IJarry trudeau 
Managing Editor: Joe Abell News Editor: Anthony Abowd 
!IS !IIRT tJERN's t-151;

St. Mary's Editor: Maria Gallagher Editorial Editor: Jerry Lutkus 
N!IRIL--Otl/ YOU CIJN'r!JERI!, VOU /0/(Jtl) H00 REVtTIJUZI/1/G

Features Editor: Rod Braye 
tOOK UN()SU~f 
ItIS 10 /0/0W 171/lT

Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson 
j fiRPPY 1f/!5 

z..ovNJJs! r fi!Jt!C/'1':­
HY ONL-(50/11 ISN'TAssociate Editors: Bob Higgins, Ed Ellis 
,• 
HORNING( 

Fa-r !filS 6000
/} (OMPt-eTc 

1111 Yet9R.5l
Night Editor: Jack Frishkorn 
J15RI\!
\ 

Ass't Night Editor: Susan Prendergast 
~ 

I
(

Layout: Albert D'Antonio o 
Typists: David Rust, Howard Halle, John Flannigan, 
Dianne Chermside, Bob Steinmetz, Bullet Night Controller: Joe Wilkowski Pictureman: Jerome Phillips Copy Editor: Ed Ellis Sports Night Editor: James E. Donaldson 
Editorials printed in The Observer reflect the opinion of the writer on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect 4he opinion of the individual writer; they are not to be tak~n as editorial comme.nt. 

the observer Wednesday, January 24, 1973 
Provost dismisses reports 

Faculty wage freeze rumored 
•

Abortion ruling ra1ses several questions 
by Don Ruane Executive Editor 

A report that salary raises for faculty in two colleges would not be granted for a year. and that Arts and Letters faculty could expect no more than a three percent raise before 1976 was dismissed last night.
Provost James T. Burtchaell said that budgets for the colleges have not been examined, and that some are not yet submitted, thus making any comment unfounded 
in fact. 

Fr. Burtchaell said that it is "far too early" to estimate if any such freeze or limitation on raises is anticipated. 
Officials in Science and 
Engineering. the two colleges 
by Jane E. Brody 

(c) 1973 New York Times 
New York. Jan. 23--The Supreme Court's far-reaching decision on nbortion. variously hailed as an overwhelming victory for women's right to privacy and attacked as depriving the fetus of its right to life. has left the country to sort out a number of serious medical and legal issues raised by the justices' 7 to 2 ruling Monday. 
Among the issues, according to authorities consulted today by the 
Campus Happenings • • • 
of Notre Dame. January 25. 1973. in Saint Mary's Dr. Martucci has instructed in College. Carroll Hall. Madeleva
Northernlreland 
nursing. sociology, and Memorial. The film is the first 
The American Scene: A Cultural psychology. She has served as session of the College's "India '73" Series will open its spring program Head Nurse and Clinical Instructor sPries. tonight with David Doyle of Loyola in Neurology and Neuro­"Aparajito" is the second film of University, Chicago; speaking on psychiatry,was the Coordinator of a Hay's famous "Apu Trilogy". It "Northern Ireland: Yesterday Medical-Surgical Nursing was awarded first place at both the and Today." Program. and was the Co-Director Venice and the Los Angeles in­
All students registering for the of Undergraduate Psychiatric tPrnational film festivals in 1958. one-credit series are required to Training Program. Among her The movie portrays the tension attend the talk at 7:30 in Carroll most recent accomplishments is between traditional and con­
Hall. Saint Mary's. the development and direction of a temporary India through the 
This lecture series is sponsored Student Adviser Program at Saint characterizatic·n of a young man by the departments of education, l\1nry's College, Notre Dame, who rejects following his father's art. English. speech and drama, Indiana. priestly vocation, and moves to humnnistic studies, and music; Dr. Martucci. whose specialty is Calcutta to acquire a university nnd the Performing Arts Series, psychology of nursing, is a education. Student Development, and the Hegistered Nurse with an M.A. in Student Academic Commission. Clinical Psychology from Mime auditions
Duguesne University, and a Ph.D. inCounseling Psychology, from the 
Auditions for a mime show willMartucci speaks llniversity of Notre Dame. 
be held tonight at 7:00 p.m. at Little Theatre. Saint Mary's.
Dr. 1\lary Martucci, Director of Counseling at SMC. will speak on 'Aparajito' show Persons interested in either per­
forming or working backstage are"Cnreer \'S. 1\larriage," at 8:30 The film "Aparajito", directed welcome.
p.m .. Thursday. January 25, 1973, by the world-renowned film Anyone unable to make theto tht• Law Wives Association of director. Satyajit Ray, will be meeting may contact Sue Maherthe University of Notre Dame, at shown at 7:30 p.m., Thursday, for further information.
the Mernoriai Library, University 
Got the urge to write? 
Sign up now for the Observer reporting staff 
informational meeting: 
tonight 7:00 LaFortune 2-D 
current reporters: please attend this meeting to give us your new schedule , if you haven't already 

expected to feel the freeze, aJso said the report was not true. Science Dean Bernard Waldman, said that his understanding based on what the provost told him is that all colleges would be treated the same as last year. 
Edward Jerger. Associated D~an of the Engineering College, sa1d there will be some salary increases. and that he "was not at liberty to make a public an­nouncement" as to how the in­creases would compare with last 
year. 

Dean Thomas Murphy of Business Administration. said he eould not discuss the matter and suggested contacting the Provost. Arts and Letters Dean Frederick Crosson is in India and con-
New York Times, are the im­mediate impact on existing state laws. and the role of local health authorities in setting standards of safety for early abortions. 
According to legal authorities here and in Washington, the court's decision. which holds that no state may interfere with a woman's right to obtain an abortion during the first three weeks of pregnancy, has the effect of immediately invalidating all existing laws that do not conform. 
In the strictest interpretation. onlv New York State's abortion Ia~ appears to conform in all details to the court's ruling. Three other states--Hawaii. Alask and Washington. which like New York have laws permitting a woman and her doctor to decide about an abortion--also have residency requirements: such requirements have been struck down by the court. 
The remaining 46 states and the District of Columbia will. in effect, have no abortion laws until and sequently unavailable for com­ment. 
Aecording to Fr. Burtchaell, each eollege is given an amount of money which it must budget. The amount of money available for raises depends on how the fund is budgeted. 
Aecording to the report the colleges of Science and Engineering would not receive any raises: and it was projected over three years that Arts and Letters faculty could expect 2.5 percent increases this vear. a little more next year a~d possibly three percent the following year. 
Across the nation. faculty raises usually amount to increases between five and seven percent. 

unless the legislatures choose to pass laws that conform with the Supreme Court ruling, legal authol'ities said. While a person could still be brought into court for \"iolating a state law that does not confrom to the ruling, the case would be unlikely to get very far, they said. 
As one authority. Mrs. Harriet Pilpel. attorney for planned Planned Parenthood-World Population. said, "when the Supreme Court interprets the constitution. the decision becomes effective immediately. I think that until new laws are passed. doctors can go ahead and perform abortions." 
ABBEY IS HAPPY to announce our new budget motel in 
South Bend. Lovely rooms at low cost. $10.00 single $12.50 double 
Friendly happy atmosphere·· Send your friends and relatives 
ABBEY INNS OF AMERICA 52825 U.S. 31 N South Bend, Indiana 46637 1219) 272-9000 <next to the Boars Head) 

or LOIS TRANTER JORDON MOTORS 
259-1981 
For students •nd raculty 21 and ovet 


Whether and how doctors across thl' nation will take advantage of this situation remains to be seen. "'lntPrested lay people--women. l'iPrgy nnd others--will have to \rork with the medical profession to assure tha t safe. humane. low­cost abortions are made available to all womPn," said the Rev. Howard Moody. Pastor of Judson 1\'lt•rnorial · Church here and director of the National Clergy ('onsula tion Service on Abortion. 
Plannec' 1et.j1·enthood expects to work with ILS 190 affiliates in 40 states. to help those who want to set up abortion clinics and to establish a too-free nationwide telephone rt-ferral system. 
Wednesday, January 24, 1973 the observer 
•

Kovatch report IS challenged by students 
. 

(continued from page I) 
that she had been present during the in­cident. 
Sl'curity was unable to apprehend the other students involved. They reportedly gained access to the fifth floor by "just walking through the main lobby," Regent said. 
There were a number of other con­flicting reports concerning the incident. Several sources disagreed on the time. One report stated that Regent reported the students as "five strange men," in her initial call. but that when she arrived at the Security building, the Notre Dame Hegina resident believes that they "ran back throught he main lobby, cut through the courtyard and out the back double doors by ihe cemetery." 
Kovatch. when contacted last night and 
informed that conflicting reports had been 
received, still held to his story. Questioned 
about the coverage in Monday's Observer, 
Kovatch verified all facts within as correct 
and asked. "Why should I lie'!" 

The incident brought to a head the 
security problem that Regina has posed all 
~·ear. The hall has eight doors to secure, 
while most other halls have only two. 
Petitions for firelocks by the hall council, hall directors. and security have been turned down by the Holy Cross sisters who still own the former convent. They claim that the installation of firelocks would "deface" the building, according to 
Regina staff members. 

Meetings were held on all floors in Hegina last night announcing a crackdown on student security offenses. Penalties will be increased. first offense will be sent immediately to the Student Relations Board <judicial board>, and all offenders' parents will be informed by letter of the violation. Most of the offenders have been l"reshmen. 
Student reaction to the crackdown was mixed. but there was a unanimous outrage at the apparent false statement isusued by Kovatch. 
''How can they expect us to be honest with them if they aren't honest with us'!" one asked. 
"Maybe they just didn't want to upset us. but I think we're mature to handle the truth," added another. 
One of the security guards on duty the night of the incident has reportedly quit because of the disorganized and un­derstaffed SMC security situation. He was unavailable for comment last night. 

• -....... ~ * -...................... , ................... , ........... ~ ........· •• 
r 
Wednesday, January 14, 1973
the observer
8 

Irish gain more than 4 points at Mich. Tech 
by Jim Donaldson Sports Editor 

Notre Dame's impressive, 6-1 victory over Michigan Tech Saturday night in Houghton enabled the Irish hockey team to gain a split in its eight-point series with the Huskies. Coach "Lefty" Smith's sextet also gained four points on the club just ahead of them in the WCHA standings, fourth place North Dakota, which dropped a pair of two-point games to Denver. 
But the club's most important gain can't be measured statistically. The Notre Dame icers also gained faith in them­selves last weekend. 
At the outset of the season, the Irish. finally possessing the talent and experience necessary to become challengers for the WCHA title. had been optimistic. However. an opening night loss to Bowling Green set a trenrl of disappointment that typified the learn's play in the first two months of the campaign. The club won only six of its first 16 games, going -t-6 in Association play. The low point came after 11-4 and 12-5 drubbings at the hands of Boston College and the Czechoslovakian national team. respectively. The situation seemed critical. 
The Irish took a long look at themselves after those defeats and then set about playing the brand of hockey they were capable of playing. sweeping four-point series from Michigan and Colorado College on the first two weekends of the New Year. The wins were encouraging. but not conclusive. 
"Beating Michigan in Ann Ar­bor. especially after trailing by three goals in the last period of the second game, was very pleasing," Smith said. "At the same time, it didn't prove what caliber of hockey we could play. Beating Colorado twice didn't prove much either." 
Michigan and Colorado College are the two weakest clubs in the Association and are ninth and tenth in the standings. The Wolverines have won just three of 17 league games while the Tigers have taken only one of 15. 
''Our big test came last weekend, " Smith went on. "We were playing a club that was considered to be among the two or three best in the league before the season. one that's known to be tough at home. I figured that the Tech series would answer a lot of questions for us." 
Notre Dame started well in the first game of the series on Friday, assuming a 3-1 lead in the second period. Then things went bad in a hurry. Tech. capitalizing on Irish dPfensive mistakes, rallied for seven straight goals--two in the second session and five in the third--and won. 8-5. 
"We were playing well, we had the lead. and then the bottom dropped out." Smith commented. "The sad thing was that Tech got seven straight goals and didn't even have to work for them. They took advantage of every mistake we made." 
"After that loss, I thought of about 9,000,000 changes I could make." Smith continued. "I wondPred for a long time about what to do and finally decided to take a calculated risk and go with the same players, on the same lines and rotations. that I had used Friday night. If it worked out, the kids would really believe in one another and be convinced that they could play with anyone." 
"Then we went out and played one heck of a game on Saturday," Smith said, happily. "To come back. after Friday. did so much, in my estimation. to give the players faith in themselves. Now they know that. if they work hard and play good position hockey, they 

OBSERVER 
SPORTS 
Swimmers dunk Oakland 
by Pete McHugh 

Nineteen Irish swimmers scored 
as Notre Dame's swimming team 
demolished Oakland University, 
74-:~9. last night at the Rockne 
Memorial Pool. The Irish swept 
relay and diving honors in cap­
turing their third win against two 
defeats this season. 

Enroute to their first victory of 
1973, the Irish set three meet 
records, while taking first place in 
nine of thirteen events. Notre 
Dame broke out to a 43-9 lead and 
was never headed, to the delight 
of a sparse crowd at "the Rock." 
The Irish 400-yard medley team <Bob Thompson, Brian McCorry, Ed Graham, Jim Kane> began the onslaught by winning the relay in 3:52.7, a meet record. Kane, the sophomore senation from Owings Mills. Maryland. came from a full length disadvantage to anchor the \'ictory. 
B!.'hind senior John Sherk, Notre Dame took the 1000-yard freestyle with freshman Andy Wallach finishing second. The Irish also placed two swimmers in the vic­tory column in the 200-yard frcestvle. with Joe O'Connor and .J irn Meagher finishing 1-2. 
In the 50-yard freestyle, senior (il·ne Krathaus captured his specialt:v while Rich Fitzsimmons took third. Continuing the drub­bing. :'\loire Dame's Graham swam to a meet record (2: 10.7) in the 200­\'ard individual medley. Senior John Balthrop took third. 
Completely outclassing Oakland in the diving competition, Notre Dame's divers continued their winning ways by taking the top two positions in both the one-meter and three-meter events. Dan Makielski won the one-meter and Chris Payne the three-meter competition. Freshman Mark Foster placed seond in both events. 
With the decision no longer in question, coach Dennis Stark was able to use most of his team. 
Oakland finally captured a first place in the 200-yard butterfly with a meet ret.:ord (2:06.7) by Mike Karas. However, Notre Dame's 
Ed Strack took second only a half­Owning a 67-39 lead, the Irish length behind the winner. In the -tOO-yard freestyle relay team next event. 100-yard freestyle, <Fitzsimmons. Strack, Wallach, senior Mark Wilcox also finished O'Connor> ended the evening by second. corning from behind to edge Oakland. In his anchor leg,
Sophomore Bob Thompson 
O'Connor ove~came a full-length
continued his comeback from knee 
deficit to spark the Irish victorv. 
surgery by taking the 200-yard 
Coach Stark said he was glad to
backstroke in meet record time 
"get back on the victory trail"
<2: 11.2>. Junior John Cleaver 
while entering so many swimmers. 
placed third. 
The Irish hope to repeat last 

Captain George Block took third night's winning performance in the 500-yard freestyle and in the Saturday afternoon against 200-yard breaststroke, Jim Fischer Marshall University at 12:30 in the captured second. Hockne pool. 
WCHA Standings 
Michigan Stale 
Denver . 
Wisconsm 
!l<orth Dakota 
Notre Dame 
Mtnnesota 
Mtrhigan Tech 
Mmn.·Dtllulh 
Michigan 
Colorado College WEEKEND RESULTS WCH.-\ Mtchigan Tech 11-1. Noire Dame 5·6 Denver ll)·5, North Dakola 5-3 Mtnnesola 3·5. Colorado College Z·Z OTHER Wisconsin 5·8, Clarkson 4·3 (first gamr owrltme) Mtchtgan Slate 10.11. Atr Force J.$ 
Pis Pts W LT W LGF'TA 
. 10 Z I 31 7 61 41 10 s 1 JO 14 in 54 II 41251179 57 .10 7 I 23 17 87 81 9 7 0 22 18 70 68 . 5 8 3 19 25 'j7 59 7 6 0 IH 18 70 liO . 8 8 0 16 zo 75 71 . 3 14 0 8 30 liO 104 I 14 0 2 34 55 94 
WEEKEND SERIES Michtgan Slate al Notre Dame (7 .10 

p.m ACC) North Dakota at Wisconsin Mtchigan at Colorado College Minn.-Duluth at Denver Michtgan Tech al Minnesota 
Class of '73 presents 
M.A.S.H. 
Sat. Jan. 27 8:00 pm O'Laughlin Aud. S.M.C. $1.00 

Mark Steinborn and his fellow Irish defensemen will have to be at their best this weekend when the WCHA-Ieading Michigan State Spartans invade the ACC for a two-game, four-point series. 
ean do the job against anybody." Notre Dame is mentally ready 
The Irish may find their faith for the Spartans and figures to be sorely tested this weekend when physically set. too. Smith has been their opponent won't be just driving his club hard since the end "~ny?ody", but the WCHA-leading of last semester. holding two-a-day l\1Jch1gan State Spartans. Coach workouts during the vacation, and Amo Bessone's club has posted a there's been no let-up evident this 
10-2-1 record in Association games week. and last weekend ran roughshod over a non-conference foe, Air f<'aceoff on Friday and Saturday Force. 10-1, 11-5. nights at the ACC will be at 7:30. 
Irish Ice Statis tics 
Gms G A Pts P·M 

Bumbacco,w ........... . . . 22 28 24 52 12-24 Williams.w ........... 19 18 20 38 21HO Noble,c. .. . 18 II 22 !S 7·14 R~an.c . . . .. . . . ... 22 tO 16 2S 17-4% DeLorenzi.w .. .. . . .. .. .. . .. .. .. . .. 21 6 13 It 10.23 Conroy.c .. . . . . . . .. .. .. .. .. . . . 22 5 • 14 II-II Green.d . ............................ 22 2 12 14 12-24 CUIT)',d. . ....................... 21 3 • 12 23-49 Nyrop.d . .. ....................... 22 2 t II 11-%% 
Jsraelson,w .. 
. 17 7 2 ' .. 8 

Steinborn.d ... 
..... 191674-8 D.Howe,w. . . . .... 10 4 3 7 I· 2 Schafer.d .. .. ........ 22 3 3 6 11-30 Larson.d ........ 22 I 5 82-4 Dunphy.w ... .......... 21 I 3 (. 3-10 Maison.w . 41120.0 Novilzski. w .... .201010.0 Cunha.c 4 0 I I I· 2 Keating ... ....... 12 0 I I 4-18 Tardant,W . .......... 201r000.0 Bonk.d 70000.0 Byers.w. . ............. 20000.0 
Notre Dame Totals . .. .. . . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . . . . ............... 22 104 159 263 153-339 Opponent"Totals . . ................................ 22 113 162 175 154-324 
Power Play Goals-NO 31 of 99 (31.3 per cent): Opp. 22 of 105 (21.0 per cent). Shorthanded Goals -N D 5, Opp. 3 
Goaltenders Gms GA Avg. Saves Kronholm .. .. . . .. .. .. .. .. . .. . .. . .. .. . .. .. . .. .. . . 15.5 frl' 4.32 474 Cathcart .. . . . .. .. .. .. ............................. 6.5 44' 6. Tl 208 
Notre Dame Totals . . . . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . . .. .. .. . 22 Ill' 5.05 682 Opponent Totals . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22 102' 4.64 895 'Does not include open net goals 
Going To Chicago? Take the Notre Dame Special Greyhound Scenicruiser non-stop from the Circle to Chicago every Friday at 4:55. Two Returns on Sunday. Call Tom Bo er 234-8259 for reservations 
BUY DIRECT FROM 

Jim class of '63 Chuck class of '65 proprietors

*New-Highla.nd Light Scotch-$4.43 a fifth
* 12 Pack Beer Special
* We Can Get Kegs For You 
* Tappers in Stock Case Discounts-Liqour & Wine 






