

On The Inside 
Irish drop the NIT final 
... p. 8 Literary Festival agenda 
... p. 2 


serving the notre dome -st. mary's community
Vol. VII No. 100 
'Student Ass I n. I 
roposal releas 
by Tom McKenny Staff Reporter 

An outline proposing the "Student Associatio" form of government for Notre Dame has been delivered to the individual Hall Presidents and will be evaluated at the HPC meeting Tuesday. Highlighting the outline is the proposal for a Student Forum with ao members including the Student Association President and Vice-President. the President of each of the resident halls, off­c-ampus representatives and the student members of the Academic Mike Marget Council. 


H the proposal is ratified by two-thirds of the individual hall councils it will mean the abolition of the present student government and the l'SI ahlishment of The> Student Association of the University of Notre Dame> du luc. 
The proposal, which is in the form of a three-page outline, is the product of an independent committee of the concerned students in· eluding Student Body Vice-President Dennis m-l\1anl Etienne. Student (;overnment Treasurer Mike Marget, HPC Chairman l<~red Baranowski and former SBP candidate Jim Clarke and his running 
mate Chris Singleton. 

The proposed "Association" is a compromise between a group that favored putting all of the authority in the hands of the HPC and another group that favored a strong single executive. As a result of the compromise the proposed Forum will be chaired by the Student Association President who will be directly elected by the student body. 
The Hall Presidents will. however, hold a considerable majority in the Forum. 
"We wanted to obtain the most responsive and the most respon­sible form of government,'' Singleton said. "It was the best compromise we could get." 
Marget added, "All we did was to apply our experience to the campaign ideas of Clarke and Singleton." 
Should the proposal be adopted by the hall councils, elections for Student Association President and 
Fred Baranowski 

Vice-President would be held 
"ometime before Easter break. Singleton said, "I don't forsee any problem with getting the proposal approved. It encompasses every guideline the HPC gave us." 
Baranowski was very optimistic, saying, "I think this will reconcile the HPC and student government and bring them back together. The 
biggest thing is going to be to keep the forum ~eeting. ·: . It was felt that by putting both the Academic Counctl members 
the Hall Presidents on the Forum, student input would be f~cused on education and hall life, the two greatest areas of student mterest: l\1arget said. "I think it has been a gross oversight that the ~cademic Council has not been included in student government before. 
Till' proposed outline fails. however, to mention anything abou~ the SLC'. Baranowski commented on this saying, "The SLC is a Umver­sit v-established council and not a function of student government. Pr~sently a c?mmittee is r:ne~ting to determine tne. fu~ure of th~ ('OUncil. We will have to wait till next year to determme 1ts status. 
The proposal provides for the election of off-campus Forum r<'prC'sentatives allowing one representative for every 400 off-campus 
~tudC'nts. 

The outline includes sections on an Executive Cabinet, a Student lfnion and a Judicial Board. It also aligns duties to the Student :\ssociation President and Vice-President. 
l\larget pointed out that the outline was not called a Constitution and the "Association was not called a government. 
"We have learned that many schools are having a constitutionai · ·· erisis. They are bogged down in politics and. rivalries. !his .is wh~tf 
we are trymg to avmd wtth thts ·•· format." 

A letter accompanying the document stated. "This structure is purposely flexible ... what we· have proposed is a structure fhat ean react quicky, is reponsible to lhC' students. and provides for the eonstant input. not only from the various student leaders but also ··rom each and every student." Chris Singleton 
copy of government proposal 
•.•p.6 
Monday, March 26.. 1973 

The Fifth Dimension put on quite a performance in 
the ACC Friday night in response to a warm 
welcome. See page 5 for details. 
Commissions co-ordinated by Chairman 
SMC referendum approves student govt. replacement 
by Bill McGinn 
Staff Reporter 

Saint Mary's students voted overwhelmingly in Friday's referendum to adopt proposed Constitutional changes. Nominations for the new offices open today. 
four new positions 

Election Chairman Sue Op sbe~ 
declared that more than 90 l ·cpnt 
of those voting approved t..e 
3titutionalization of four n,·w 
elective positions: Chairman, Hall 
Life Commissioner, Student Af­
fairs Commissioner, and 
Academic Affairs Commissioner. 
This referendum signals the demise of the traditional structure of student government at St. Mary's. According to SMC Student B(>dy President Sue Welte, the existence of the traditional Student Body President. Vice-President and Cabinet system will be rC'placed by the formation of separate. independent student eommissions which will be coor­dinated by a Chairman. 
commissioners elected 

There will be special com­missions on Hall Life, Student Affairs. Student Relations, and Aevdemic Affairs. The heads of these commissions will be elected, 
An Tostal preview ••.page 3 'Little Big Screen' .••page 5 
rather  than appointed  as  in  the  
p~st.  
The  Chairman  will  direct  the  

Student Assembly, will have a seat on the Student Affairs Council t...ct-· will be the student representative at St. Mary's College. 
The Hall Life Commissioner will chair the Hall Life Corr r· ;ion, which is responsible for a h<1ll activities. The Student A: tairs Commissioner will chair the Student Affairs Commission and will be generally responsible for any non-hall or non-academic func•jon. 
The Ac~<1 ~mic Affairs Com­missioner wi;i serve as an advisor to the Board of Governance and will fulfill !he duties traditionally assigned to this post. 
nominations open 
Nominations for the positions of Chairman. Hall Life Com­missioner. Academic Affairs Commissioner, and Student Af­fairs Commissioner will be ac­cepted by Sue Oglesbee today until !l p.m. March 31. Each nominee must present her platform upon signing up for the nomination. 
To be eligible for nomination and l'lection. one must be a SMC sophomore or junior. Off-campus as well as resident students may participate. The election campaign period will run from April 3-9, with voting on the following day. 

If more than two candidates seek 
the same office, a run-off between the top two candidates will determine the winner. 
more student involvement 
Welte explained that the Con­stitutional changes were initiated for several reasons. First, she claimed the new student govern­ment would ensure that more students will be actively involved in student government. 
bC'tter communication 
Secondly. she said the new Chairman and Commission system will better facilitate com­munication between students and their student government. Specific student matters will be handled more quickly and efficiently than under the SBP-Cabinet system. 
For example. she said. the Hall Life Commissioner will be able to make a decision pertaining to hall life matters without having to answer to a Student Body PrC'sident first. 
Both Sue Welte and Sue Oglesbee l'Xpressed the belief that SMC students will be more serious about 
. their student government elections than were their fellow students at ND. 

Washington-A "market basket" of foods from United States farms cost the typical family 2.5 per cent more in February than the same foods bought in January, the department of Agriculture reported an campus taday today. 
Washington-Democrats and Republicans on the Congressional 

warld 

briefs 
(('I U17J NPw York TilllC?S 

.Joint Eeonomic Committee unanimously agreed today with President Nixon that total government spending in the next fiscal year should be lwld at $26!l billion, though the Democrats said "Congress should make major rPalloeations within the administration's proposed expenditure total." 
Tlw annual report to Congress of the Joint Economic Committee today marked a major futher evolution of the acceptance in Congress that a eeiling on total federal outlays, binding on Congress as well as tlw President. is need to check inflation. 
Miami-President Nixon said today that he had ordered United StatPs forces to stay in South Vietnam until all Amtrican prisoners of war have been released. 
Nixon's statement, issued by Ronald L. Ziegler, the White House l'rPss SPeretary, was an attempt to end the deadlock over the release ol nine American captives of the Pathet Lao in Laos. In talks in Saigon, the United States has demanded that those prisoners be rdeased along with the 138 remaining prisoners held by the Com­munists in North Vietnam and South Vietnam. 
Week-long literary festival features numerous writers 
by Mary Janca 
Staff Reporter 
This year's Sophomore Literary Festival will host a variety of poets. painters. and novelists, including Gwendolyn Brooks, Arthur Miller, and Chaim Potok between April 1 and April 6. Sponsored by the Cultural Arts Commission and run by sophomores, the festival is dedicated to imprisoned writers throughout the world. 
"This is a fantastic opportunity to hear what authors have to say on a formal level, and to get to talk to them on an informal level," said festival chairman Frank Barrett. 
Schedule of Events 
Pulitzer prize-winning poetress Gwendolyn Brooks begins the festival with a reading from her poetry 4:00p.m. Sunday, April 1 in. the Library Auditorium. Known as a spokeswoman of the black e]l:­perience, Brooks major works are Annie Allen, The Bean Eaters, and In the Mecca, and a fiction piece, Maude. 
At 8:00 p.m. in the Library Lounge, Brooks will hold an in-· formal question and answer seminar. 
On Monday, April 2 fictionist Stanley Elkin will read from hisl 
_works at 8:00p.m. in the Library' Auditorium. His writings which, are concerned with the relation between man and his environment, include his first novel, Boswell: A Modem Comedy; a collection of short stories, Criers and Kibitzers, Kibitzers and Criers, and novels A Bad Man and The Dick Gibsons Show. Elkin is presently an American Literature professor at. Washington University in St. Louis. On Tuesday, April 3, Elkin wiiJ lecture on "Literature and the Heart Attack" at 3:30p.m. in the Library Auditorium. AI 8:00p.m. that evening, Chaim Potok. author of The Chosen will discuss "Rebellion and Authority: Thl' Jew and Modern Literature." Among Potok's other works are The Promise, and My Name Is A,rthur Lev. 
Poet John Ashbery will read 

from his works Wednesday at 3:30 years in Chicago during the 1920's 
p.m. in the Library Auditorium. and he has written 66 Selected His writings are characterized by Shorter Poems, 100 Poems from his originality and abstract use of the Chinese, and With Eye and words, and include Turnabout and Ear. Other Poems, Some Trees and A Poetry Symposium is Mountains, and Rivers and scheduled for Thursday, 1:00 p.m. Mountains-He has also written two in the Library Lounge where plays, The Heroes and The Rexroth, Ashbery, and Jerome Contpromise and a novel, A Nest of Rothenberg will discuss poetry-Ninnie, written in collaboration At 3:30p.m. the same day in the with James Schuyler. Library Auditorium, Jerome. 
Painter-Poet Kenneth Rexroth Rothenberg will read from his will read from his poetry Wed­poetry. He is known as a "tran­nesday at 8:00p.m. in the Library slator of 'primitive' poetry" and Auditorium. His writing and has published thirteen volumes of thinking are said to refl~t his (continued on page 7) 
SMC room selection to follow regulations 
Saint Mary's room selection · committee has released the following rules and regulations governing this year's room selection procedure: 
-In the event of an up­perclassman wishing to room with an underclassman, the priority nu~ber of the upperclassman will be considered valid and can be used· to make the room selection. 
-In Regina Hall, one priority number can be used to pull with it a block of from one to ten rooms. However, these rooms must be consecutive rooms or rooms· directly across the hall from one another. 
-One priority number can pull a suite as the room selection. The students involved in such a selection can shift within the suite until · a suitable placement arrangement is reached. · 
-A certain number of beds will be set aside in LeMans Hall, Holy · Cross Hall, and Regina Hall for freshmen. Freshmen will not be placed in McCandless Hall. 
-The primary student body leaders will receive the privilege of picking their rooms first if they are selected before the room selection period. 
-There will be no waiting lists for rooms in any of the dorms. -No checks or cash for room deposits will be accepted at the 
SPECIAL WEEKEND ROOM RATES FOR NOTRE DAME PARENTS OR VISITORS 
$6.95  $8.95  
Single occupancy  Double occupancy  
No  Notre  Dame  identification  required,  just  

mention this lad. Effective any Fri., Sat. or Sun. thru June 15th, 1973 except for the weekend of May 18th. 
HICKORY INN MOTEL 50520 U.S. 31 North South Bend, Indiana 46635 
(219) 272-7555 3 miles North of the Tollroad. 
(,11>1<' Tv, Aor Cond .. Phones Send this ad to your Parents. 
time of room selection_ Ifa student does not have a room deposit receipt to pick a room, she will be . allowed to pick before the next day's group provided that she places a deposit. No room will be assigned unless each person in­volved can present a deposit receipt. . 
-If a student cannot be present for the lottery number selection, she should give her ID to a friend 
(continued on page 6) 
''T!ie "'bserver is published dally during the college semester eiCcept vacations by the students Of thl\. ''University of Notre Dame and St.. .AIIarv's College. Subscriptions• Jt)ay be purchased for S8 per semester ($14 per year) from The Observer. Box Q, Notre Dame•. itndiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame. Ind.· 
~5~6. 

ANNOUNCING I 
4: 30 pm-lecture, nieuwland science series, manfred eigen, information and organization, nieuwland science hall 
6:30 pm-mini course, part one, fun­damentals of taxes, prof. william slowey, 104 o'shag 
8:00pm-lecture, governor john gilligan, carroll hall, smc 
8:00 pm-hypnotist, dr_ irwin ross, engineering auditorium 
Nominations for GSU 
President , Vice President and Secretary-Treasurer are now being accepted 
All interested Grads see Barry Wessels 102B 
N.S.H. for more information. Nominations close March 30th 
APARTMENTS AVAILABLE FOR SEPT 73 
Come see the Notre Dame Ave. Apartments. You are looking for modern living, 
we· have the answer: 
CLOSE TO CAMPUS 
2 LARGE BEDROOMS: ROOM FOR 4, 5 or 6 STUDENTS 
LARGE KITCHEN, DINING ROOM, AND PLENTY OF STORAGE SPACE 
FULLY CARPETED LIVING ROOM WITH A PRIVATE PATIO OR BALCONY PLUS AIR CONDITIONING 
These Apartments are fully furnished and are coeducationa I_ 
CALL 234-6647 OFFICE 919 SOUTH BEND AVE., SOUTH BEND 

he Observer has paid positions open in its business departmen 



Assistant Business Manager 
-should be a business major with accounting experience -will move to business manager's post 

ssistant Advertising Manager 
must be able to work from 10:00 to 5:00 daily (Mon. • Fri.) Applications and resumes should be submitted to Jerry Lutkus Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 or brou ht to The Observer office b Fri. Mar. 30. 


Monday, March 26, 1973 

the observer 
3 
An Tostal preparations continue 


'• ..:: 
~;Big Boy Family Restaurantll =~ 
: ~ 
: .. 
by Bob Quakenbush Staff Reporter 

An Tostal is now a month away, and the An Tostal Committee is accelerating preparations for the annual Spring weekend of festivity, including seven events which require advance organization and planning by halls or individuals. 
Bookstore Basketball 

The first of two An Tostal basketball championships is scheduled for the bookstore courts Thursday, April 26. The "Gentle Thursday" sports spectacular matches members of the Fighting Irish varsity <clad in boxing glovesl with the best quintet the ND-SMC female residence halls can assemble. Tip-off time will be 4 p.m. 
To insure the girls' represen­tative is of the highest caliber, each female dorm will determine a hall champion. Playoffs then decide which hall will represent the female segment of the ND-SMC community in the Bookstore Basketball Finals. 
For further information, students can contact Greg Monito at 7876. 
Can Stacking 

The can-stacking competition is slated for Thursday evening near Breen-Phillips and Farley Halls. Competitors are encouraged to 
the largest stack will be awarded a case of beer <in cans, of course). For further information, contact 
Scoop Madden at 272-9692. Human Pyramid 
Immediately after the can­stacking Thursday night, the North Quad hosts the human pyramid contest. which defies an unlimited number of humans to mount each others' backs or shoulders in an attempt to reach the heavens. 
According to the Committee, the tallest "pyramid" will be awarded a keg of beer "direct from the Niles." 
For further information, contact John Voll at 8515. 
"Iron Man" Tourney 
"Frivolous Friday's" primate athletic attraction, the "Iron Man" basketball tourney championship, tests the skills and endurance of the two best teams of an expected sixty-four team field. 
Skill will be of major importance 
in this year's single elimination tournament. Since each team may have no more than five men on its roster. if a man fouls out, his team must play four-on-five, a serious handicap. 
Says John Morin of the An Tostal Committee, "It's possible some games could turn into one-on-one contests." 
The first team to score twenty­


Now •

1n your area 
·: 
52860 U.S. 31 North d(in front of Ramada Inn) 272-9720 
.
····:·:·:·:·: :·:···:·: :•:•:•::•.e:::•. ••:.·:..::a•:..·"'••
00 • e 

-_• •eae"e"e"e•e·e ···:•:• •::·::·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·: .•.•.•.•.•.•.•.•.•.•.•. 




ATTENTION! ! 
All organizations wishing to 
apply for funds from Mardi Gras Charity Chest should submit formal written request by 
Fri., March 30th. 
Requests should be directed to the attention of 

Joe Prochaska 
and left with the Student Union Secretary. 
Thank you. 

noon Wednesday. 
Decathlon 

The An Tostal Decathlon features five-member teams from each ND-SMC residence hall competing in ten events: nine holes of golf. 100 yard swim, free throw shooting, speed skating, 100 yard dash, baseball throw, shot put, billiards, mile run, and broad jump. 
Steve O'Connor, the decathlon's organizer, said, "You should be in pretty good shape to enter this one. One thing to note is that you won't really be competing against other competitors, but against your­self." 
O'Connor hopes the individual halls stage their own decathlon prior to the Easter break so that the finest from each hall will be entered in the most demanding of the An Tostal events. 
Prizes will be awarded to the best hall team and to individual winners. The competition will be held on the Notre Dame golf course, in the Rockne Memorial Building, the LaFortune Billiards Room, and the Athletic & Con­vocation Center. 
For further information, contact Steve O'Connor at 3352 or Clem O'Malley at 1992. 
:·
:: 
::
.. 
·: 
·=:
.::
.•. 
::: 
~: ~ 
(: 
~= 
::: 
~ 
t 
WHAT'S YOUR GIRL BACK HOME 
DOING TONIGHT? 



Long distance still is the next best thing to being there. And you can save money by calling nights or weekends. 
Chariot Race 
The hour of glory for amateur Ben-Hurs is "Sunny Sunday," at 1 
p.m. Three heats will prove who is the master charioteer at Notre Dame. 
There is no limitation on chariot size, but in the race, the chariots must be drawn by a team of four human "steeds." 
After the races, the victorious charioteer may refresh his "horses" with a keg of liquid to be presented by the An Tostal Committee. 
For additional information, call Steve Jeselnick at 7401. 

Touch Football 
Shortly afterward, six men face eleven girls in the finale of the interhall touch football tour­nament. Although further details are unavailable at time of publication, an unconfirmed rumor within the An Tostal Committee reports there will be no penalties called for illegal use of hands. 
For more information, contact Mike Lyons at 6652. 

Pass lhe word. SOFA can get you to Europe, Africa, Israel, the F•r East or anywhere: AND. get J0<1 back! 
As the wholly owned tubskUary ol eleven non.proth European National 
Studtilt Travel Bureaus. SOfA can 
issue you the International Student 
fdentlty Card and book you on any of 
our 8,000 student charter fltghts within Eorope, Asia. and Africe 
(Including Tel Aviv, Bombay,Bangkok, 
Nairobi, etc.) Up to 7rl'l• savings 
over normal fares. 
SOFA also offera an extenstve array of tours aiJowing the independenl student traveller to take advantage or Inexpensive group arrangements and sightseeing. We feature culturally rewarding Israeli kibbutz programs and educational tours within Europe and 
the Soviet Union. 

Other Hrvices available from ICWA tnck.tde: a great Car Pt.n, !"'-Student RaUpas, lquege COUf'MII k\ Europe, and tow cost K~modatiOnl In llolele. llolldlrt ¥111agoo. ondltoeleil. 
AHIIIodopelolnllloi'IIU19730t11clal 
Studltnt Tl'llvel Gl,lkle to Europe. IOFA-don't au on n-Send for It NOW. 
0SOFA.-""'"'molhtPIIftdope.102 


@Indiana Bell 




THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Art Ferranti Executive Editor 
Dan Thornton Business Manager 
Jerry Lutkus Editor-in-Chief  Dan Barrett Executive Editor  
NEWS:  283-1715  
EDITORIALS:  283-8661  Joe Butler  
B~SINESS:  283-7471  Advertising Manager  

Monday, March 26, 1973 
A Poor Excuse 
With the release of the newly conceived Constitution for the "Student Association of the University of Notre Dame duLac," an attempt has been made to consolidate th<' many and confusing arms of student government into a less political, advisory forum. 
The result has been a rather unexciting d<'privation of the student body of a true 
rrnovation  of  government  at  Notre  
Dame.  
In  creating  the  Student  Association  

Forum as a body comprised of the Jlresent Hall President's Council, proportionate off-campus represen­tation, and the voting members of the Academic Council, the new document rstablishes the only existing truly representative body on campus, the HPC, as the base for its only legislative arm. But the significance of the move <'nds there. The Forum only has legislative powers when the matter of allocating the budget is being considered. Other than that, the Forum becomes a part of the "Committee Syndrome" at Notre Dame--a well-intentioned body whose hard work and decisions are subject to the qualms of the Student Association President, or Student Association King, as the year will dictate. 
And there lies the basic fault of the new constitution; it relies too heavily upon the <'lection of a serious and dedicated student to the post of president. In the event that a person takes office who is intent upon rendering the association inoperative, there is no legislative power invested in the Forum to compensate for his disinterest. Their only course of action is one of initiating the recall process, one which is far too taxing upon the student body, and too time­eonsuming considering the need for a student government that establishes itself as decisive and effective. 
The Constitution establishes in its preamble that it is "purposely vague," and that, while extremely helpful to the t!Overnment that does not wish to be hound by official precedents, has proven itself extremely inadequate during the past year. The recent election illustrated this point clearly. On the night of the first balloting, while the Election Committee was questionably deciding the rules for the <'nsuing run-off, what our student t!OVernment sorely needed was a strong <'Onstitution that would eliminate the <'onfusion that proceeded to cloud the run-off with the air of dishonesty that has ham pNed student governmenf for so long. 
In short, the constitution should be a doeument to which the Student .\ssociation should conform, and not a doC"ument that conforms to the whims of the student )..!OV<'rnment then in of­
fi(' ('' 
conditions, a candidate could get ten signatures simply by getting his housemates' and his next-door neigh­hors' signatures, the number of can­
didates could easily reach absurd proportions. 
The procedure for determining the candidates for the run off Presidential election also holds the potential for ex­treme confusion. The purpose of a run­off election is to insure, by means of mathematical assurity, that one can­didate will receive a .majority of the student body's support. That is the rationale for not allowing write-ins, and it is the rationale for limiting the election to two candidates. The purpose of the first election is to hopefully elect a president, with a majority. But the number of candidates sometimes makes this improbable. And so, the run-off becomes necessary. But not as thesecond in a series of boring, frustrating election that try the students' attention, and slowly cause them to lose interest in candidates whose hard work deserves a better fate than continual exposition in the political side-show. 
And although the new constitution seems interested in removing politics from student government by electing TN'm bers of the forum in a direct and 11' ore localized manner by the people who know them best, it falls short of com­pletely freeing the student body from the absurdity of student body at -large <'lections by retaining the offites of pr<'sident and vice-president as we know them now. For two successive years, the ll'ajority of voters at Notre Dame have demonstrated that they would rather <'lect a "non-president," than one who would seriously direct the student governnment. If the student body does not want a president, then why establisil a government headed by one? Why doesn't the Forum simply choose a chairman, the spokesman for all of those representatives whom the student body has historically shown that it elects seriously? Only then will politics be removed to any extent from student t.>:overnment. 
The new constitution appears to have rome from the hands of tired student servants who have lost their flare for the innovative. It basically establishes that an advised Oligarchy is the best form of government for the Notre Dame student body, when in fact that form of govern­n,<'nt merely establishes in loco parentis on a student level. If students are serious about a new constitution, then take the word seriously--not a lot of rehashed and tired ideas, but one that will give students what they really . need--leadership in h<'ll<'ring their life at Notre Dame. 
daaneabury Butch Ward 

Ciardian Knat In Wonder~and 
Ed Ellis 
1\1~· good friend the Universal Social Scientist was sitting alone in a dirt~·. poorly-lighted bar one night last week. and as I came upon him, I perepived that he was quite literally crying in his rare imported seoteh. SPeing his distress, I quickly donned my clerical garb and curl~· brown heard, sat down next to him, and ordered a similar rare imported scoteh. assuring the bartender that I would not salt the booze \l'ith m~· tears. 
"Can I assist you, my friend?" I began in my holiest Pater Noster intonation. "You seem in need of a heavy priestly rap to bring you to salvation and to get your head together." 
Hut the Universal Social Scientist (a man of great distinction who had t•arned degrees in political science, economics, psychology, an­thropology. sociology. computer science and plumbing) could only watPr his scotch and mumble, "Wonderland, Indiana ... it escaped." 
I recalled at this point plans for an experiment the U.S.S. had described to me months earlier. Having tired of rat-running, computer games and transactional analysis, a scholarly group had persuaded my friend to seek the Demon of Truth, which was allegedly in hiding in a small town in central Indiana called Wonderland. Wonderland, it sct•ms. had developed a socio-politico-psycho-economic population perfect for the discovery of Truth. My friend also suspected that they had good plumbing. 
The lJ .S.S.'s goal was to prove the validity of the statement: "Given the concomitant existence of both an ideal statistical population and the requisite plumbing apparati, the appropriate financial stimulus to subsidize substandard units of disposable income will result in a high­frequency financial release-response." In other words, if you give money to the folks on welfare, they will spend it 
Now I must confess that this proposition seemed a bit trivial given that it was designed to serve as bait for the ellusive Demon of Truth. llowl'ver, my friend assured me that my opinion only showed my utter ignorance of where it's at; whereupon he produced 40 pages of graphs and eharts that proved beyond any doubt where it was at. Truth, he said. would take the bait. And so I recall that I had---then as now­taken up my collar and beard to bless the search for the Demon of Truth. 
In subsequent weeks, the team of researchers led by the Universal Social Scientist laid seige to the small test-tube town of Wonderland. Slowly but inexorably they drew their net around the Demon of Truth. From the North. they crept stealthily with a force of over 300 Riemann integrals. supported by 37 heavy-duty LaPlante transformations and a huge pair of seventh derivatives. Up from the South moved a force of l'ighty regression analyses, followed by two score discontinuous sine funetions. From the East an armada of amphibious consumption curves carried over a hundred Truth-proof Skinner-boxes across the rivl'r that bounded Wonderland. And finally-, from the West came the ll.S.S.'s seeret weapon, the null set. flanked by two enormous ex­perimental extinction curves. 
For months the scholars worked, seeking the evidence that would prove that welfare recipients spend money, which would of course signify that they had cornered the Demon of Truth. And as my friend explai1wd. all hopes rested on those welfare recipients. 
"Think of it 1" he lamented, "The Demon of Truth---our ultimate goal---in the hands of welfare mothers!" 
I of eourse counseled liberality and open-mindedness concerning \l't'lfm·p recipients. and noted that they probably did their part for the great Wonderland quest. "After all," I commented, "It seems fairly obvious that a person in need of money will use it when he gets it." 
Now I had made this statement in order to console my friend, hoping tlwreby to pt>rform one of the spiritual or corporal works of mercy consonant with my liturgical function. Imagine my surprise, then, when the Universal Social Scientist immediately broke down in a flood of tears. bawling outrageously, "It got away. goddamit! It got away! It must have slipped through the plumbing!" 
After the bartender had quieted the U.S.S., I .asked him what went wrong. 
"You had armies of integrals, cohorts of computers, the greatest force t>ver to attempt such a trapping of the Demon of Truth. You said that the t>xperiment was a good one, and all your diagrams, graphs, and charts proved that you would trap the Truth. What happened?" 
llis scotch glass was now quite full of salty tears, so I ordered him anothPr. and as I did so. he told me his tale between sobs. 
"The entire program depended on the cooperation of the sub­standard income units. We had integrals, regression analyses, seventh dt>rivatives --imagine that! seventh derivatives --what sheer ecstasy! --discontinuous functions. consumption curves. and even the null set·­( lh ~ .Joy of joys! --may God save my slide rule!" 
··But." lw continued. steadying himself with the scotch, "the sub­sidized substandard income units incorporated an unregenerate in­consistency which we were unable to program into the central thesis." 
"Yt>s''" 

''Tiwn• were none.'' 
"What?" intoned your humble narrator in dismay. 
"In the l'!1tire city of Wonderland. the perfect socio-politico-psycho­l'conomie laboratory. there was not one single solitary person on \\'l'lfare. Tlw l'XpPriment in truth failed. The Demon of Truth was not o;u·s. If fl<'d through the plumbing!" 


qarry trudeau 
0 l her w<'a k nesses in the new document .-------------, --------------. .--------------, .--------------, 
;1 n· <·entered primarily in the area of l'IPrtion procedures. The rules call for an off-camous candidate for the Forum to !.!<lrDN h•n signatures on a petition in order to place his name on the ballot. c·onsi:lering that under most off-campus 
tlle observer 
~----------------­
"',1)1• ,,.,, 
N•qht Ed1l0r M,,rlnll' /IO/d A·.·.·r N•qhf Ed•for rt~r•~ ~utt.v.1Jl L,lyOIJf /\ 1.· H,.-·rlonL Kdfh·,· Kt·lh D.ly Erfltor T ,, B••rnt1oldt Copy £d1f0" E ·I E /1,<, M•kc O'H<~rr• P!Ciun•m(ln J• rc .. ,,, (IH"''>tllrC' 
l yp1r,t~:, . ..,,,·", ~~~p,.r H,ury (tlunq, Rot> Bclrrmqer H,ll Op1•r(110r ~"·..._,. G11PI/ 
WI31A,tAfH!1E S&ff; 
If YOU /JON'( t-!f\6 IH£ !lCCOUNTIINT J0£3, I'H NOr .StJR& /IJH!lT 
Ei.Se I Cfl/1/ OFFeR 
you. 
~ 


Monday, March 26, 1973 the observer 
5 


the fifth dimension: a surprise 
byron king 
They had been to Notre Dame several times ·b('fore. and many expressed concern about the people's response to their latest visit. llowPver. when the Fifth Dimension walked l'lllO the stage, a warm reception wPlcomed the group. and all fears of a poor J'('sponse were eliminated. It was as if the group was performing here for the first time. 
A brisk opening number had the crowd elapping in time to the music, and all present could see that the evening would be an ('njoyable one-well worth the money. 
soft and sweet 
Before the audience could catch its breath. it was. 
"Very superstitious, 
writing on the wall," 
the opening line of Stevie Wonder's latest hit release. This writer scanned the audience as the number continued, and there was no sign of restlessness, no sign of dissatisfaction: just attention. 

Following this, it was one of the group's own hits. "Last night, I couldn't get to sleep at all." Marilyn McCoo softly sang, as the audience blurted its approval. A mellow job, and the crowd showed its approval with enthusiastic applause. 
"If I Could Reach You" was next. Soft and SWl'et. 
origins 

The group took time out to discuss their origin with the audience. "We got together in 1966 in Los Angeles," said Marilyn McCoo. "We chose our own songs,rehearsed, had our outfits made, and that's how we five. clean-cut kids got started." Ron Townson interrupted, "She's givin' you all a snow job. They were all misfits-good·for­nothings. Every day they would wake up and go to their menial tasks, while I would go to my office." "The post office!" shouted Lemonte McLemore. The audience enjoyed the unexpected bit of comedy, and roared their approval. 
early hits 

The performers then sang a few of their earlier hits. They did "'Go where you Want To Go." a song first made famous by the Mamas and the Papas. Then it was one of their own, ·"Up, Up, and Away." The crowd's feet hadn't touched the floor since the concert began, and this number kept it that way. The older songs sounded just as good as ever, and the group put just as much heart and soul into them. They sang "Stoned Soul Picnic," and this one concluded their short history. 
comedy 

Comedy was mixed in with "Wedding Bell 
Blues," as Billy Davis was pursued by 
Marilyn McCoo throughout the number. 
On a more serious note. the audience next 
heard "One Less Bell to Answer." Soft and 
sweet, it put the audience in a good position 
for what was to follow. Different colored 
spotlights revolving about the stage set the 
scene for "Aquarius" and "Let the Sunshine ln." The audience was enthusiastic at the start. and even more so at the conclusion of the number, not to mention the continuous clapping in time to the music. Cheers, whistles, and applause showered the group when the music ceased to play. 

Black poetry 

Following this there was complete silence while the audience sat wondering what would come next. "Day by Day"from God­
spell finally eased the crowd's curiosity. Another surprise was in store. The group recited Black poetry that was partly humorous and partly serious. Each member had a turn. An example: 
Po' little fly. Got no mama. Got no papa. Got no sister. Got no brother. 

Got nobody to Love ya'. But God loves ya'. <SLAPll NOw-go to God! 
duets 
Duets followed, and since the group is composed of five members the audience helped out Lemonte. to do a duet. 
dance number 
Still another surprise awaited those in the audience, and some were more surprised than others. The group chose people in the audience to accompany them in a dance number. Hilarious! 
The concert concluded with lights, colors, and a wild satisfied audience. For a group that had been to Notre Dame so many times before, and seemed to be somewhat on the decline elsewhere, the show was great, and this writer could see nothing but smiling faces afterward. 
the film. On Wednesday, William Conrad stars in the pilot for "Canon", a detective yarn which stands up on its own as far as plot intricacies and acting goes. Both air at I I ::!0 on CBS <22>. 
"ABC's Wide World of Enertainment" has a hodpodge of different films this week. mostly mystery. Tonight Colleen Dewhurst !the ex-Mrs. George C. Scott> and Martin Sh('er star in A Prowler in the Heart: :omorrow. Nightmare Step: Wednesday. Night Life: and Thursday. A Little Bit Like Murder. Friday's "In Concert" features the 1\lahavishnu Orchestra. Taj Mahal. AI (;reen. Dr. Hook. and Eric Weisberg and the lkliverance (featuring "Dueling Banjos" l. Tlwse shows are presented at 11:30 all nights. 
miscellaneous 
Miscellaneous: Filmation. a cartoon 
production company. is going to produce 
cartoon \'l'rsions of "1\ly Fa,·orite l\lartian" 
for CBS. "1\leHales Na\-y'' for ABC. and for 
\BC --arl' vou readv for this "Star Trek". 
Tlwy an• ,;ll sehedirll'd for Saturday mor· 
nings. I hope thl'y do not foul up on the last 
om•. hut I \rill probably end up \\·atching a 
lt•w anyhow. 
lll'nnis Owl'ns. a first y('ar !\D law 
studt•nt. \Von approximately $1.400 on ",Jeoparrty ~ .. ovl'r the break. Thl' shows will air m•xt \\'l't'k on the fifth and sixth of ...\pril. 1:!:00 noon on 16. A full story will appt•ar in The Obser\'er in the near future. 
Tri \'ia Question· Who play('d Lt. Jacobi in 
till' T\' St'l'i('s "Pet('r Gunn" and who played 
Edit• Hart in th(' series·~ .>.what was the 
nanwof tlw caf('-bar that was Gunn·s base 
ot operations'' 
·~ ..hll{]Oj'\·•IJI!.1 aq,L :14~!JCJ[V ll(0'1·1Jel! Jrp:o~ ·rp.ll~tJ.J,l\1 l.l4JSJJH-!qo::>ef TI : uoqsJn?) 01 .r,J.\\Sll\' 

Little Bir:~ Screen 
oscar time again 

art ferranti 
Hollywood's finest will once again vie for the coveted Oscar this Tuesday night at ten on 16. Emceed by Carol Burnett. Michael Caine. Charlton Heston, and Rock Hudson, other presenters wiil include !alphabetically listed> Julie Andrews, Beatrice Arthur. Clint Eastwood, Greer Garson. Gene Hackman, Cloris Leachman, Frank Sinatra (presenting the Jean Her­sholt Humanitarian Award to Rosalind Husselll. Sonny and Cher, and Raquel Welsh. There willl also be a few dance and tribute numbers (one to Walt Disney>. In ease any of you miss the festivities tomorrow (sacrilege!>. I shall report the findings Wednesday. 
batch of specials 
There is also a batch of specials this week. Bob llopl', who for some reason is no longer the main master of ceremonies at the Aead('m~· Awards. plays warm up batter to tlw ePremonies with his special entitled "Ca\'alcade of Champions" at nine on NBC. .John Wayn('. Fred MacMurray, Danny Thomas. and Sammy Davis. Jr., help pn'sPnt tlw athletl's including Kareem ,\hdul·,Jahbar. Wilt Chamberlain. Jerry \\'Psi 1hask('tball l: Larry Brown. Franco Harris. r:arl l\1orrall (football>: Jack ~ieklaus Cary Player. Lee Trevino <golf>: Dick All('n . .Johnnv Bt>nch. Steve Carlton r haseha II l: and -in individual classes. 1\luhammad Ali. Bobby Orr. Chris Evert. llilliP .l•·an King. and Mark Spitz. 
\lllzi <;a~·nor airs a special Wednesday at nirw 1111 :.'2 with guest stars !\like Connors. ll;m Dailt·:-,. and Ken Berry. CBS's "Ap­poinlnr•·nt \\'rlh lkstiny" series presents its . sPCOJJd ;.how for this season with "Peary's l{aCl' for till' :\orth Pille" utilizing its ex­(' e IIt' 11 I ~· o u a r e ·t hP r P a n d-i nt e r v ie w ll'l'hllit:Jil' Lorne (;r<'l'Jl(' narrates the lmtor~· nl Hobert r:. Peary's quest. !\love 
out at ten on 22. 
The last special is "The ABC Theater's" presentation of "Pueblo" chronicling the events in dramatic form of Commander Lloyd M. Bucher's surrender of the U.S.S. Pueblo off Korea in 1968. Hal Holbrook stars as Bucher with all the dialogue for the drama taken from public record. Set sail at nine on 28. 
this week's movies 

The movies this week have two repeats, Iwo pilots. and three first run. The two made-forTVfilms areNo Place to Run with IIPrshel Bernardi as a grandfather desperately trying to keep custody of his grandson and Stephanie Powers trying to take the boy away <28 tomorrow at 8:30), and Footsteps: Nice Guys Finish Last which is how this movie rates besides. This laltPr film has Hichard Crenna as a college foot ball coach using unscrupulous methods (o lw No. 1. Not if Ara can help it. It too airs tomorrow night at 9:30 on 22. and was originally I itled Footsteps. 
Two dPtective films also fistfight their \l'ay into tube this week. Tonight. for those who are not interested in the basketball ganw at nin(' on 16. there is the premi('rpof Gunn. the I\Hi7 film bringing back Craig Ste\·ens as the title character private eye of tht' old but enormously successful TV series. "Pt•ll'r <;unn". Plenty of action highlights this film with a 1\lancini update of the Gunn thl'llH'. Edward :\sn('r !of the "l\lary Tyler \loon'' showl plays Lt ,Jacobi and Laura \le\'Oll plays (;unn's girlfriend Edie Hart. I ln Friday..Janws (;arner plays Marlowe. tlw dett•ctive cn•ated by Hay Chandler. in a prPtty tight m~·stery. The ending is anti­l'limatic hut thl' plot is its usual complicated ('handler I ~·pp 'n·member The Big Sleep :•). ( 'arroll <lTonnor co-stars. It shows at nine on:!:!. 
... tick ... tick ... tick ... is a cops-and­robbers film set in the South with Jim Brown as a new sheriff clashing with (;eorge Kennedy as the ousted lawman over a case involving a black accused of rape and a white charged with manslaughter. If you miss it. nothing lost. CBS presents this flick at nine. Thursday. A 1952 soaper was dredged up by ABC for Wednesday night at 1\::l:l. Charlton Heston and Jennifer Jones star in Ruby Gentry. about a Southern backwoods girl (Jones> who plots revenge on lkston for marrying another girl of a higher social position. Miss Jones takes part in some pretty torrid love scenes for a 1\l!l2 movie but it still comes out soap. In any case. with these two movies on consecutive nights. I wonder what the executives at ABC and CBS have against the South. 
"The ABC Sunday Night Movie" has a Yul Brvmwr and Trevor Howard oater entitled Th~· Long Duel. I believe the title refers to 
. the stamina of the viewer vs. the raunchiness of the film. Ride on. The two pilots are tl'il'vised on Saturday night. Sally Fil'ld tries for another series. this time with Kt•n 1\lalhl'son as newly-weds going West in tht• IHHO's. in "Hitched" at 9:00. Barbara I\a in and 1\lartin Landeau ("Mission: Impossible" l who are wife and husband in rl'allife play a wife and husband team in the following pilot. Their last name is "Sa\'agp" which coincidentally is the title of tlw pilot. Tlwy arl' journalists investigating tiH• nom ina t ion of a judge for the Supreme 1'ourt playl'd by Barry Sullivan. Shades of 
Harold Carswell 
Tlw late movies on CBS have two .Jighlights this \H'ek. Tonight. !\!arion 1\rando <llld Liz Taylor star in Carson \k('ul!Pr's Reflections in a Go/dl'n .Eye. :Jl10ut a homost•xual Southern 1hen• we go 1ga in> ,\rmy officl'r bedding down with Liz Ta~·Ior an~·way. while trying to seduce Holll'rl Forsll'r 1 • 'Banyon" l. Brando makes 

Monday, March 26, 1973
the observer
6 



Proposed Constitution 
Recognizing the need tor an instrument through which our collective voice may be expressed, our needs ad­
•nini~tered 
to. nnd our desires implemented, we. the un­<i<'rqr,1dUnte students of the University of Notre Dame, once ,1qain join into il union, to be known as "The Student /\~~oci.1tion of the University of Notre Dame du lac", 

•·mpowl'red 
to nct as our sole collective representative l>l'fore c111 other officials and organizations. 


This document will outline the structure necessary to qive palpable physical form to our collective will. The format lor the Student Association is not governmental, lli'Cc1u~e this shall not be a government. Rather, it is oullined in terms that are purposely vague to ensure fl<'xibilily, economics, and quickness in action in the face of future challenges in the service of the student body. 
Student Association Forum 
The Forum will not be a legislative body, except In budgetary considerations where It will be empowered to assess and allocate funds, nor 11 "political body", but it may express consensual opinions on Issues pertaining to the status of student and academic life, and advise the Student Association President and all other departments and representatives on formulation of policy for the Student Association. 
The Forum shall meet on a regular basis, in open 
meetings, to discuss the qualitY of student and academic 
life at the University. Following the meetings, the Forum 
members will report the substance of the discussions to 
their constituents. 
The Student Association Forum shall be composed of: 
( 1 l The Student Association President 
(2l T11e Student Association Vice-President 
CJl The President of each residence hall 
(4) 
One representative, tor each four hundred students, l'll'cted Mlarge by and from the off-campus students. 

(5) 
The voting student members of the University Academic Council. E11ch onembt>r shall have one vote. The Hilll President-Forum members shall be elected in .Kcordance with their respective hall constitutions. The off C"c1mpus-Forum members shall be elected in S<'ptember according to the following formula: 


( 1 l Pr<'~Pntation of a petition of candidacy bearing ten ~iqnc11ures. 
(2) In lhe election, each voter shall be entitled to a numbf'r ot vot'!s equal to the number or represenatives to I><' PlectC>d (only one vote may be cast per candidate). 
C3l Those candidates with the highest totals will be <leciMed the winners. H.>ll President-Forum members shall be liable for recall 
•lCCording to provisions of their respective hall con. ~titutions. Where 'no provisions exist, the Forum will for­n>ul.ltf' ,, .,t,1ndard procedure and urge its adoption. 
Tl1e oil campus-Forum members may be recalled by a p<'lition llcMing the signatures of off-campus students o'C)llrll to one third of the number voting in their elect ion. 
Executive 
All executive responsibility shall be vested in the Student 
1\ssocicllion President. Student Association Vice President. 
,1nct their designates. 
TIH' Student Association President shall: 
(I l S!'rve as chief· executive officer and official 
'Pokesm,ln tor the Student Association. 
(2) Serve as chairman of the Student Association Forum. 
(J) Appo1nt the Executive Cabinet. committees ot the Forum. the Judicial Board, representatives to University-wide committees, and other persons necessary for the l'fticient operation or the Student Association, with the cldvice of the Forum. 
(~) Be responsible for the financial operations of the Student Association. The Student Association \lice President shall: 
(I) 
Serve as the chief administrative officer of the Student Association. 

(2) 
Pl'rform the duties of Student Association President wiHm he is unable to do so. 

(3) 
If tor any reason, the office of Student Association President becomes vacant, the Student Association Vice· President shall succeed to that office. 


(~) If tor ony reason. the office of Student Association 
Vice President becomes vacant. the Student Association 
President shall nominate a person to be elected by a 
11lcljority or the Forum. 

T11e Student Association President and Vice-President 
c;hall be elected, as a ticket, in March to begin a term of 
otticc of one year commencing on the succeeding April 1. 
Cc1ndidates for these offices may be nominated by a 
petition l>earing the signatures of 300 students. 
A majority, consisting of 50 per cent plus 1, of the votes 
cast will elect the candidates. If no ticket reaches this total, 
a run off election shall be held. • 
For the run-off election, the nominees will be those 
candidates receiving the highest vote totals (In descending 
order l added to the ballot until a majority of the votes on 
the original election are represented. 
Provision for write-in candiates will be made for all 
elections involving the operation of the Student Association. 
The Student Association President or the Student Association Vice-President may be recalled by a petition hearing signatures of students equal to one.third of those cast in their election, or by two consecutive three-fourth' votes of the Forum at two meetings held one week apart. 
Executive Cabinet 

The Student Association President shall appoint, with the 
advice ot the Forum. the Executive Cabinet to assist in the 
administration of the Student Association. 
Student Union 

The Student Association President shall appoint the 
Student Union Director, with the advice of the outgoing 
Student Union Board of Directors (as defined in the Student 
M.1nuall. 
Judicial Hoard 

The Student Association Judiciill Board shall have final 
responsibility tor the interpretation of this document; 
coordinate the hall Judicial Boards; advise the Student 
A~sociation on matters of interpretation; and, certify all 
o•lcctions relilled to the operation of the Student 
A'sociation. 

The Judicial Board shall be composed of twelve students 
,1ppointed by the Student Association President, in ac­
cordance with University policy. No member of the 
Judicial Board shall hold or be a candidate for any other 
po~il ion in the "Student Association. 
Revisions Rr•visions of this document may be introduced by any 
H.111 Council or by two oft-campus representatives with the c;iqn,1tures of 50 off-campus students; or by a 50 percent plus 1 vote of the Forum. 
II shall be ranfied by two-thirds or the Hall Councils, with oil campus considered two halls for this purpose. All Boards and bodies of the Student Association will Pstabtish procedures for their operation. 
SMC rOODl 
(continued from page 2) 
who will pick a number for her. If a student cannot be present for the room selection itself, she should give her prospective roommate's her ID card and room deposit receipt. 
In addition, the Housing Office has made the following decisions applicable to room selection: 
-There will be no room changes after room selection has been completed. 
-Anyone discovered manipulating the room selection procedure before room pick will . lose her priority standing and will be allowed to select a room after every other class has finished its selection. 
-Students abusing the room selection after room pick will be dealt with as follows: Seniors will be fined $100.00; juniors, sophomores, and freshmen will· lose their priority number for the following year and will thus have last pick of rooms. 

picks set 

The schedule for room deposits was also released by the Housing Office. All $50.00 deposits will be accepted in the Business Office from !l::lO a.m. to 11:30 a.m. and 
I :00 p.m. to 3:30 p.m. on the following days: Tuesday, March 27-seniors of next year Wednesday, March 38-juniors of next year Thursday, March 29­sophomores of next year 
Students who do not ma.ke d~posits on the assigned class days Will be taken after the assigned group of each day-through Tuesday. 
Lottery number selections will take place in the Student Personnel Area in LeMans Hall. All lottery selection periods begin at 6:30p.m. 
Thursday, March 29-seniors of next year Monday, April2-juniors of next year Tuesday, April3-sophomores of next year 
Swami to speak in Lyons 
by Bill Sabin Team Leader for the Conference. Staff Reporter The Swami is also the author of Swami Satchidananda, Hindu books and articles on Eastern religious leader and Director of the prayer, and is a well-known Integral Yoga Institute, will speak teacher of Eastern prayer forms. 
tonight at 8 p.m. in the Lyons Hall ChapeL 
Satchidananda is at Notre Dame as a guest lecturer for the Con­ference on Doing Prayer, held this week at the CCE. The Conference is not open to the general public, hut tonight's talk will be. 
"The Swami is probably best remembered for his appearance at the Woodstock Music and Arts Festival, where he opened the Festival with a blessing for the young people of America and predicted an upswing of spiritual values and the beginning of a new 

era." said Alana McGrattan, 
Student Union Social Commission 



HYPNOTISM DEMONSTRATION 
by 

Dr. Irwin Ross--Famous Hypnotist 
He makes people do things they don't usually want to do??!! 
TONIGHT 8pm ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM 

FREE 

Monday, Mar-ch 26, 1973 the observer 
7 

Diamond 'speaks for the Unborn' 
by Ted Guth began by declaring that to consider have any population explosion." Dr. Diamond was accompanied care, and even financial aid if Staff Reporter the fetus not another person was In a question and answer period by his wife, the founder and needed. But, "most importantly 
"untenable," for it is "certainly president of Birthright in Chicago. we provide a friend to answer their
following the lecture, Dr. Diamond 
Speaking before a small alive" and can be "distinguished Mrs. Diamond described the work cry for help when confronted with
commented that the most im­
audience in the Stapleton Lounge from any other species at any of Birthright among pregnant laws that undervalue children, and 
portant thing that anti-abortion
of Lemans Hal~ last night, Dr. time". women, for whom they provide overvalue society," Mrs. Diamond 
student in the ND-SMC community
Eugene Diamond, director of "Abortion has never, in the free psychological and medical . declared. 
can do is to "witness for life" by
Birthright, International gave a history of the world, been per­leeting their feelings known bothlecture entitled "They speak for formed on a fertilized egg, or on putlicly and privatelx. "We must
the Unborn." undifferentiated protoplasm. The oppose any attempt to infringe on Vorce assumes jobDr. Diamond, who attempted to fetus is at least three weeks old at the sanctity of life," h~ concluded.
present the "medical case against the time of the abortion," he abortion", declared, "I am for life remarked. A fetus, at any time has and the preservation of life. Life is only two futures: "to be either a 
as new-S.B. treasurer 
infinite in value". live human, or a dead human by Pattie Cooney is considered the best interest ofIn his speech, Dr. Diamond fetus." 
Staff Reporter the student body.
attempted to respond to some of He also contended that legalized "Essentially what the system
the "needs for abortion" often abortion was not necessary to stop 
Ray Vorce, junior accounting does is allow the accounting
cited by advocates of abortion. He any grave problem due to criminal . major, becomes Student Body records to detail and highlight
abortion. He stated that Treasurer today, replacing senior various activities. This will
legalization of abortion has never Mike Marget. facilitate drawing up the following 
served to lower the criminal Vorce will work mainly with the years' budgets," explained
SLC to conduct abortion rate, and that in any case, supervision of the allocation of Marget.the criminal abortion death rate funds for various student com­
The responsibility of themeeting on black was only 130 in 1969 according missions and clubs. treasurer is to see that the money
to Diamond. "I foresee no drastic changes or allocated to the commissions and
Dr. Diamond also felt that with deletions in the accounting system 
clubs is used in the best interest of
student affairs the birth rate decreasing as it had which handles the allocations. 
the students.
in past years, abortion was un­Basically I will just be continuing
The Student Life Council will Vorce is interested in helping the 
necessary for population control. Diamond: I am for life and the where Mike left off," commented
conduct a general meeting today at clubs prepare to make their
"With a million fewer babies born preservation of life. Life is infinite Vorce.
4:15 in Holy Cross Hall. requests for funds at the beginning 
the agenda for this last year than in 1957, we don't in value. The system Marget set up this
On af­of the year. "The various 
year facilitates the tracking of
ternoon's meeting is a second organizations will fill out stan­
different accounts and includes
presentation by black students dardized forms so that their ac­
different expenses as well as the tivities, objectives, and goals will
concerning life at Notre Dame. Ll•terary zestl·val zeaturele!l 
revenues arising from various
The purpose of this second sessien I.~ I.~ ~ be made known and related to the
,activities. The criteria for ex­
is to clarify some of the views needs of the student body," said
penditures is determined by what
presented at the February 5 Vorce
poets, writers, painters
hearing. I 
The SLC will also hear com­
mittee reports and the steering (continued from page 2) Ethnopoetics." According to 
committee will announce future verse, translated seven works Barrett, this is "an explanation of 
CLASSIFIED ADS
meetings of the council. Included from the German and Seneca ' the techniques involved in tran­in these future meetings will be an languages and edited six an-. sl~ti~g primitive works andr---·-"------:-----------------------4 
April 2 hearing on Notre Dame-thologies. ~rmg1~g them up!<' date. For the.­South Bend relations. At 8:00p.m. in Washington HaD f1rst time,. the bterary word 1s Today's meeting will also Thursday night, Arthur Miller, the: translated mto the spoken w~rd" 
HELP WANTEDFOR SALE
feature the chairman's report. SLC arthor of The Crucible and Death,. thro~h the use of chants and 
Chairman Fred Giuffrida will of a Salesman, will read from his practices. · 
JOBS IN ACTION custom paint Jack 8550 
1971 350 Honda SL 5600 miles Peace Corps and VISTA
present the report, which includes works. "An Informal Evening with 
recruiters will be at Notre Dame 
a summary of the year's reports Friday's activities begin at 3:30 Arthur Miller" at 8:00p.m. in the 
and St. Mary's Ma·rch 26·30 
and a projection concerning the p.m. in the Library Auditorium Library Auditorium on Friday 
seeking volunteers for projectsSONY TC·352·D reel-to-reel tape starting this summer and tall. They want to talk with seniors and deck, 3 head, excellent condition.
future of the SLC. with Rothenberg's "Workshop on cloSes the Festival. 
~-Call Steve, 8407 grad students witt) degrees or S600 ster-. tor sate, reciever, 
~~~~----------------------~~------~------------~--------~; 
backgrounds inJ _\!..~~~ arts, turntable, spe"-l' 9 months old, 
engineering, I business, ar. S400 or best offer ...,. 1188 
chitecture and law. The
CAC Dance & Draina Series presents 
recruiters will be in the lLibrary '63 Dodge Dart, Good con~ 
concourse every daY ·and in runs well Call 234·7792 
various placement offices during the week. See the ACTION people For Sale-Acoustic 134 amp. 
now for a jobwith a future. Casino concert P.A. System-Best offer, after 7 . 234·4547 
BUSINESS GRADS


''EL TEATRO CAMPESINO'' 
Want to be a business leader, For Sale: 1970 Dodge super bee 
setting up co-ops and making 383 Exit. cond. Must sell $1500 or 
things work the right way? Peace
Farm Workers Theater 
Corps and VISTA can give you that opportunity. These ACTION 1965 Triumph TR4 37,000 
best offer . Call Steve at 2187 
agencies have projects starting ziebarted, very shari.• 272-6638 
this summer and fall iri 57 
countries and 49 states. See For Sale: Wurlitzer Spine.t 
"Wins cheers...makes even 'scab' ~ound lyrical...when it cqmes 
recruiters at Notre Dame in the Piano French Provincial-~·· 
Iibrary March 26-30 or in the
to political drama, there is no substitute for the real thing" 
Business School March 26-27.
I Wood Call 272-3233 

ARCHITECTSDeluxe Portable Zig-Zag Sewing
--THE NEW YORK TIMES 
Try some new designs with Peac~; Automatically darns and makes 
Machine. 1973 Model. 
Corps and VISTA, the ACTION buttonholes, all accessories in­
agencies. Community DESIGN cluded, excel Ient condition. 
Centers across the country need
"Lively quick-moving funny" 
your skill. As an ACT ION volunteer tor a year or two, you'll work in creative projects. See Sacrifice $100. 234-2547 
'69 Honda Mo-Ped (motorbike). 
Immaculate, under 5,000 miles. 
--THE CHICAGO SUN-TIMES 
·ecruiters at Notre Dame in the Call 287-9984 and make an offer. 
library March 26-30 or in the Architects School March 2d. For Sale· 1972 Power-bill Citation 
CIVIL ENGINEERS 
In the Peace Corps working in any Raleigh · 10 speed . 6 months old. of 57 different countries you'll use original value $121.00 asking all of the skills you've developed $85.00 Call Toch 8536 through years of education; all in Golf Clubs. Call 8820
SATURDAY, MARCH 31 
a couple of years. A> an ACTION "2 Beach Boys Tix, S-Track Tape volunteer you'll help build Player, Refrigerator, 7" GE Reel another country. See the to Reel." Call 1578 recruiters at' Nolrl' Dame in the 
library March 26-30 or in the 

8:00 pm WASHINGTON HALL 
I

ADMISSION BY DONATION: 
FOR RENT Engineering School March 26. 
Try a challenge after graduation. Want privacy!? Rooms $40 233-J 1329 ! 
LIBERAL ARTS GRADS
CAC DANCE & DRAMA PATRONS FREE 
Don't feel left out. Peace Corp~NOTICES 
and VISTA, the two ACTION .. agencies, need you too. We havE' 
Nominations tor GSU President, 
projects in 57 countries and 4<;
Co-sponsored by 
Vice President and Secretary slates, all using volunteers wit~. 
Treasurer are now being ac­qeneral education backgrounds as cepted. An interested Grads see
*Midwest Council of La Raza 
teachers, coordinators, etc. See B.1rry Wessels 102 B N.S.H. For recruiters at Notre Dame and St. 
more informiltion.. Nominations MARY'S March 26-30 in thl'
*Centro d111 Estudios Chicanos e Investigaciones Socia let 
rlo~e Milrch 3Cth. 

library concourse and at LeMan~ HillI. 4111
*Chicano Studies Program 
Needed desperately: 5-7 Beach 
ST. MARY'S GRADSBoy tickets, preferably together. I 
C1ll Milry 4878. 

Pt'ilC<" Corps and VISTA
*MECHA 
recruiters will be at Notre Dame 
Marcil 26 30 in the Library and at
PERSONAL St. MMy's March 27 in LeMans 

H,111 We want to talk to education
Atlmtion N.D. Call Mary at 5367 
majors. science majors. pre law
or Tt'rry at 5778 Wish them Happy
NOTE: THIS EVENT WILL REPLACE THE PREVIOUSL V 
majors and liberal arts majors ­flirtlldilys! 
about volunteer opportunities in 
57 countries and ~9 states. Tr~
[\tq Noobs, Surprise. 

ACT ION tor a challenge afterDum Dum
ANNOUNCED "EVENING OF TWO ACT PLAYS". 
qradualion. 

• 
.. 
-
-
• 
Monday, March 26, 1973
8 the observer 
VPI nips Irish, 92-9~, for NIT title 



Last-second OT shot bursts ND's bubble; Shue is Most Valuable 
"The plan was to go to Craig (Lieder l." Stevens explained.
by Jim Donaldson 
"But he was covered, so I soloed in 
Sports Editor 
on my own. When I missed I followed the ball because we were
Notre Dame had its heroes in the boxing out under the boards and:!lith annual National Invitationa the ball came to me. I just hopedTournam<'nt. but it didn't have one that time wouldn't run out before I to eompare with Virginia Tech's shot."
lit II<' ~uard. Bobby Stevens. 
Stt>vens' heroics overshadowedTlw !l'IO" junior dropped in a 15­
an excellent tournament per­
fooler from the right side as the formance by the Irish and tookhuzz<>r ~nunded to give the sonw of the gloss from Notre Dameseeming!:. eharmed Gobblers a 92­standout John Shumate's selection!ll overl11ne victory in Sunday as the event's Most Valuableafternoon's final. 
Player.
T£>ch. which had won its first three gamt>s in the tourney by a With Shumate, who finished as total of four points, managed to the tournament's leading scorer, foree Ill!· rharnpionship contest tallying 96 points while connecting into m·<·rt inw with a last second 20-on an amazing 41 of 56 shots from fool hornh hy f'raig Leider that tied the fiel. showing the way, the llw seor<' at 79. After that. the surprising Irish defeated Southern TPeh off<:"ns£> was virtually all Cal. 69-65, Louisville, 79-71, and SI('Vl'llS. North Carolina, 78-71 Saturday 
La rg<'ly unheralded during the before their hearbreaking en­rt>gular s<'ason. Stevens' late-game l'outer with the Gobblers. fr<'c Ihrows provided Tech's 
"I wasn't looking forward to margm retory in the Gobblers' !wing the MVP," Shumate said. "Ifirst tlu :'li.I.T. wins and it was was only looking forward tohis thn•. ••askets in the final two 
wearing the watch that has · 
minut<'~ ~>I llw overtime that 
champion engraved on it. Withoutsp<'lled ' ·•~:Jt for the Irish. 
that. the rest doesn't mean that 
After . ,. Irish. led by Gary much. It's just a piece of silver Broka\\ :d built a four-point lead and a name in a record." in llw I' : three minutes of the 
\'irginia Tech could do no wrongov<'rl im' ('f'iod. Stevens swished in the final minutes of each of its an arch onc-hander from the tournament games, as shown bylt>ft basPiirw at 1:57 to cut Notre the Gobblers' margins of victory in llanw's "'"rgin to 117-85. 
their first three games. TheyAt lh<' It sccorrd mark, Stevens edged New Mexico, 65-63 in the sank a long, off-balance jumper first round, nipped F~irfield, 77-76,fouled the
and wa:-. in act of in the quarter-finals and upset
shootin~ by Dwight Clay. He sank Alabama. 74-73, in the semis. Then the free throw, making the score came Sunday's heart-stopping win 91-!10. and set the stage for his over the Irish. 
dramatie. game-winning basket. 
The Gobblers regai;1ed ''It's a perfect climax to a possession with 18 seconds left tremendous season," Tech coach through the half. had. They didn't make many half. Bobby .Jones, N.C.'s standout aft(•r Brokaw. who had twice hit on Don Devoe said. The Irish went into a press at mistakes but just enough to get us h-!l forward was Notre Dame's 
that stage, forcing Tech out of its
both ends of one-and-one chances Irish coach "Digger" Phelps going." chid tormenter in that stretch. at the free throw line earlier in the admitted that he was "stunned deliberate, patterned offense, and Notre Dam£> has had its :-;coring 10 points. <'xtra session. missed the first shot because of that <Stevens') shot" suddenly surged back to within problems all vear at the foul line But lh£> Irish scored the last in another bonus situation. After but was quick to praise the Gob­two. 38-36, with 2:15 to go. and it proved to be several crilical st•vpn points of the first half and, 
blers. "I thought Virginia Tech did miscues there that enabled the with C'Jay bombing from the key
bringing the ball up to mid-court, Virginia Tech managed to retain Gobblers to stay close enough to area. the first eight in the secondT<'ch called timeout. a great job of not quitting when its lead for the remainder of the 
Stevens look the inbounds pass they were down," Phelps said. force the game into overtime when half. to go in front, 49-43, and they
half, however, and left the court on 
with 12 seconds to go and, finding "They made a great comeback." Lieder. who scored 24 points. 8 in never trailed thereafter.
top, 44-40. But that advantage di­
thP first half, sank his long shot at North Carolina, which trailed by both of T£>c:h 's big guns--Allan dn't last long once the teams
"We got careless," he continued. 
the end of regulation play. 11 points with seven minutes left in Bristow and Lieder--covered, tried returned to the floor. Outscoring
"We didn't make some one-and­
to move offensively on Clay. With the Gobblers, 14-4, Notre Dame As Phelps pointed out. his club the ganw, closed to within two,
ones that we should have and we
rive seconds remaining, Stevens grabbed a ten-point lead and held a fail£>d to convert on several one-with just over a minute to go but
had a couple of crucial turnovers 
~pun in the circle and tossed up a 12-point bulge, 70-58, with 6:13 and-one opportunities that might a pair of free_ throws by 
and that made the difference."
<ksperation jumper as the Irish remaining. Then the Gobblers have made the difference toward Crotty and another pair by Brokaw converged on the board. The shot Both teams had to make started to move. the end of regulation time. Brokaw preserved the Irish victory. was off the mark, but bounced off comebacks in the evenly matched, seemed to have solved that Shumate was again the key to
"We applied full court pressure
the back of the rim over the heads nip-and-tuck contest. Notre Dame problem when he dropped in two Notre Dame's win, hitting his first 
witli seven minutes to go and
of the NotrE> Dame players. wasn't shooting well at the outset shots from the foul line with only 32 II shots--running his string of
changed the tempo," Devoe said. 
StPvens retrieved the loose ball against Tech's tough man-to-man set·onds remaining to put Notre consecutive baskets without a miss
"We were down by 10 and had to
about 15-feet out to the right of the and. with Bristow consistently Dame up by three, 80-77, but Irish to 20--and scoring 24 points. He had
make our move. As it turned out,
foul line, shot and the ball swished working loose in close off low joy quickly turned to anxiety when his top production, 29 points, 18 of
their offense didn't set up as well
through the net as the final horn picks. the Gobblers moved into a the officials declared that Pete them in the second half, Sunday.
as it had and they couln't get the
sounded. 10-point lead, 28-18, midway Crotty had entered the Jane too After the North Carolina game,
ball in to Shumate as easily as they 
soon on Brokaw's second free Phelps said. "This is our biggest throw and nullified the score. win of the season. I knew early in the se,lson that we'd be this good at Except for a ten-minute stretch 
the end of the year and I'm happy midway through the first half, 
and grat£>ful that the tournament Notre Dame didn't have many 
s£>1ection rommittee gave us a problems in Saturday's 78-71 win 
chance to prove it." 
over North Carolina. After Phelps wasn't any less pleased breaking a 16-16 deadlock with a with his club Sunday. six-point burst, the Irish were ·Tm very, very proud of the 
outscored 27-12 by the Tar Heels learn." he said. "We've nothing to during the next ten minutes and he ashamed of. It's been a great trailed. 43-34, with 2:33 left in the year for us." 

lnterhall events slated 
The office of Interhall Athletics Office or the Interhall issue room has arranged several spring by Tuesday. Mare~ 27th. Equip­sporting events with March 27th ment will be furnished by the In­<Tuesday l entry deadlines. The lerhall Office, and rules will be Pvents include: forwarded to each captain 
following the deadline.
A women's doubles tennis 
A softball <12 inch) league.
tournament. Play will be governed Hosters--minimum 12, maximumby USLTA rules, and matches will 16--must be submitted by thelw best of three sets. 
deadline. and all players mustA men's singles tennis tour­represent one hall. Equipment will nament. This will be a single­be furnished by the Interhall Of­elimination tourney. Again USLTA fice. Won-loss percentage willrul£>s will apply. and again play d£>termi'le the final standings.
will be best of three sets. 
A golf tournament. This will beA mixed doubles tennis tour­an 18 hole. individual play tourney, nam£>nl. Another best-of-three with rounds played in twosomes. 
tourney. the mixed doubles will be Tlw tournament is open to allop£>n to Notre Dame students only, students. but entrants must sign up and will also be governed by in pairs. The Callaway handicaptlSLTA rules. 
system will be used. A baseball <hardballl league. For further information on any 
Hosters--with a minimum of 14 and of these activities, call the In­a maximum of 18 players--must be lerha II Office (6100 >, or the Issue turn<'d in to either the Interhall Hoom <11975 l. 








