-----~----------­
----.-----............... ~--------·---~­
-~--­
1' .. 
OD The Inside 
LeHers to the editor ... page 4 Pure Prairie League has problems ... page 5 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community Monday, September 17, 1973
Vol. VIII, No.9 
Farenthold challenges myths 
by Peggy Fredericks Staff Reporter 

''The only way to break myths down is to challenge them," was the keynote of a speech delivered by Sissy Farenthold, President of the National Women's Political Caucus, Saturday in the Little Theatre at Moreau HalL Recent examples of "myths being challenged" cited were Shirley Chisholm's bid for the presidency and Mrs Farenthold's nomination for vice president. 
Jane DuComb, president of the Indiana Women's Political Caucus opened the program. She read telegrams from Indiana Governor, Otis Bowen, and Senator Birch Bayh which welcomed Mrs. Farenthold to the Hoosier State, commending her for the work in furthering women's political rights. Dr. Edward L. Henry, president of Saint Mary's College, introduced the president of the National 
Women's Political Caucus. 

"When we look at women, I think it's well to see where we come from, where we are, and where we might be going," remarked Mrs. Farenthold. Start­ing with an imperfect constitution in this country, women were not regarded as persons, 
stated Farenthold. 

The . Equal Rights Amendment can be 
paralleled with the thirteenth, fouteenth, and fif­
teenth amendments which attempted to bring 
about the full citizenship of blacks. Farenthold felt 
that history is sympathetic to the pursuit of human 
rights. Equal citizenship is inherent in the black 
cause. 

Statistics in electoral politics prove that women 
are second class citizens and minority women are 
third class citizens. In Texas, 1,000 or 6.4 percent of 
the 18,000 elected public officials are women. This 
statistic includes 54 percent of the county clerks and 
49 percent of district clerks who are women. In 
Indiana, 9.7 percent of the public elected officials 
are women. This does not include school boards or 
county-wide councils. However, 53 percent of the 
recorders and 40 percent of the treasurers are 
women.Thereare no women United States Senators. 
Indiana has no United States Representatives, 
whereas Texas has one. Ms. Farenthold brought 
these statistics in electoral politics because she 
feels that "you can only change the law by changing 
the lawmakers." 

Farenthold stressed that awareness, asser­
tiveness, and audacity are three key words 
essential in considering where we are today and 
were we are going. Women on the localleval are not 
aware, they are not participating politicians as they 
should. Politics is a two way street. You must be 
able to take pain and strain and then persevere. 
Assertiveness is, in effect, a substitute for 
aggressiveness. Audacity means being determined 
because it is unlikely that much encouragement will 
be offered. Things are audacious because they 
haven't been done before. Ms. Farenthold cited her running for governor in Texas an an example of audacity. 
During her talk Farenthold pointed out that women's problems are not the only problems our society is confronted with. She recently visited migrantcamps in Indiana and was disturbed by the poor conditions. Out of 200 migrant camps in Indiana, only 12 are lisensed. The former guber­natorial candidate urged members of the audience to find out what their local migrant situation is. 
Mrs. Farenthold closed her speech with a quote by Caesar Chavez. "It is possible to become discouraged about the injustices everywhere, but God did not promise us that the world would be humane and just. He gives the gift of life which allows us to choose the way we use our limited time on this earth. It is a good opportunity to do something about the suffering of our We can choose to use our lives to ·bring better and more just world for our .:hi!dren. who make that choice will know sacrifice. But if you give yourself tvtally abiding struggle for peace and justice you find that people will give you their tearts will never grow hungry and never be alone. And in giving of yourself you will discover a whole new life with meaning and love. The greatest tragedy is not to live and die as we all must. The greatest tragedy is for a person to live and die without the satisfac­tion of giving life for others. The greatest tragedy is to be born but not to live for fear of losing a little security or because we are afraid of loving and giving ourselves to to people. Our opponents in the agricultural industry are very powerful and farm workers are still weak in money and influence. But we have another kind of power that comes fromthe justice of our causes. So long as we are willing to sacrifice for that cause, so long as we 
persist in non-violence and work to spread the message of our struggle, then millions of people around the world will respond from their hearts, will support our efforts and in the end we will overcome." 
Mrs. Farenthold's speech was part of workshop, Equality: Political Style. It was presented by the South Bend-Mishawaka Women's Political Caucus and Indiana Women's Political Caucus at Saint Mary's College on September 15. 
National Women's Political Caucus leader Sissy Farenthold (left) attended Saturday's workshop and spoke of the challenge open to women today. Also present was Jane DuComb (center), president of the Indiana Women's Political Caucus and SMC President Dr. Ed­ward Henry (right). )Photo by Joe Raymond) 
related story... see page 3 
Burtchaell stressesmorality at openingmass 
by Jerry Lutkus Editor in Chief 

Fr. James T. Burtchaell, provost of the University, questioned the "depth of our committment to moral education" in his homily at the mass Sunday in Sacred Heart Church that officially opened the 1973-74 school year. 
Burtchaell offered that it is time at 

NotreDame "to consider our obligation ... to offer an education that is more than merely intellectual." 
Speaking at the 10:45 a.m. ceremonies before the faculty and administrators of the university, bedecked in the robes of acadamie and students, Burtchaell said that if knowledge, only one of the mind's endeavors, is the only endeavor that is fed here,"it becomes a grotesque cancer which will sap the life from the other activities of the intellect." 
Students who come to this campus, Burtchaell said, should be walking into a "crisscross" of questions about the values that we live by. 
The provost noted that the students do not force the faculty into a situaton where there is questioning of values. Instead, he stated that the student's interpretation and value "is often inarticulate and frustrated." 
He continued saying that "our task is often not so much to answer students' 

questions, as to draw them to ask enough questions that the search may get un­derway." 
There is little vision in our world, our country and our sch.ools today, according to the provost. "Many peopledonot believe much, nor have a love to live and die for." 
Burtchaell stated his belief that students have to be guided into some personal and social committments. 
He claimed that in the past, the students who came to Notre Dame were steeped in the Christian tradition and the task then was simpler. In fact, he said, the school was little challenged and thus they were lulled by the apparent conformity of students to approved values. 
The provost said that this is no longer the case.Thereasons for this are "nonchalant homes and slothful schools," he said. In addition, he pointed out that the "raw material" that the university is faced with is no longer steeped in the Christian tradition. 
"Some students come to the university so value-deprived that they don't even rightly know what to rebel against," Burtchaell claimed. 
The faculty was challenged by Burt­chaell to return some of the moralism to teaching. He said that the priests in the halls gladly welcome the challenge of giving moral leadership, "but not at the risk of taking it ultimately from the faculty." 
"But whether men and women graduate from this institutuion as adults or as moral troglodytes depends more upon you (the faculty) than upon all those others. We cannot have chaplains," he continued, "who know nothing about scholarship. Neither can we have scholars who have nothing to say about life's good and their order." 
Burtc:'haell challenged the faculty to find better ways of "seeking, sharing and enjoining beliefs and values" with the students. He urged them to 
create a more systematic way in which the scholars at Notre Dame can expose, debate and share their beliefs with students. 
Haphazard was the term that the provost picked to describe the manner in which this now takes place. 
He pushed the faculty to become in­terested not only in what the students know, but what they prize and what they believe. 
Burtchaell delivered the homily during the mass celebrated by University President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh. Con­celebrating the mass wth Hesburgh were Fr. Edmund Joyce, Fr. James Flanigan, Fr. Ferdinand Brown and Burtchaell. 
Seated behind the altar were the priests of Notre Dame while the faculty, who en­tered the church in a grand procession, sat in the pews in the main body of the church. 
For the first time, medallions were worn during the mass by the occupants of en­dowed chairs at Notre Dame. The solid silver medallions will be worn in formal academic ceremonies and will be given to their wearers upon retirement at which time their engraved names will be added. 
On the medallion are a star, a cross and waters which were taken from the seal of the university. 
Also included in the ceremony was the premiere performance of a fanfare, "Heralding," which was played during the procession of faculty members .in­to the church. The fanfare was composed by David Clark Isele, recently appointed assistant professor of music and composer in residence at Notre Dame. 
"Heralding" was performed by Sue Henderson Seid who is beginning her first year at Notre Dame as university organist and director of the chapel choir. 
Isele, who also serves as director of the 
Glee Club and the University Chorus, has 
aso been commissioned to compose a 
"Notre Dame Mass" which will be 
premiered in Sacred Heart Church later 
this year. 

-~---·------~----­
---~-~-­
J. the observer Monday, September 17, 1973 
warld 

briefs 
WASHINGTON -Agriculture Secretary Earl L. Butz, while acknowledging a poor record in previous predictions, said Sunday "the worst is over" in the upward spiral of food prices. 
wASHINGTON -A congressional staff study forecasts a fuel shortage that could approach 30 per cent of the nation's needs this winter if unusually cold weather is accompanied by refinery break­downs or import disruptions, Sen. Hubert H. Humphrey said Sunday. 
\"IENNA . Eleven major oil exporting nations called Sunday for increases in the price of crude oil, ignoring a warning by President Nixon not to price themselves out of the energy business. 
DETROIT -Chrysler Corp. said Sunday it may ask some of its salaried workers represented by the United Auto Workers and requested by the union to continue working to stay home as long as the UAW continues its strike. 
MEXICO CITY -With tears streaming down her face, Portensia Allenrle, widowof ousted President of Chile, arrived in Mexico Sunday to accept political assylum. She appealed to the United Nations to "prevent reprisals" against followers of her late husband. 
An explosion inside the offices of the International Telephone and Telegraph offices in Zurich and street demonstrations in London marked a series of Sunday protests against the military takeover of Chile. Anti-junta firebombings and marchesoccurredin Spain during the weekend. 
an campus today 
7:00 p.m.--mini-course, "introduction to fortran programming," first of two sessions. rm., 226 computer center. 
7:30 p.m.--meeting, celtic society, fr. murray speaking on a.o.h., international room, basement of Iafortune. 
SMC election lacks enough candidates 
by David Kaminski Staff Reporter 

St. Mary's students have until midnight Wednesday, Sept. 19, to file as a candidate for electioTJ to the the St. Mary's assembly. The election is scheduled for Monday, Sept -24. 
As of Sunday, Sept. 16, eight assembly seats lack even the necessary one candidate to make an uncontested race. Those eight seats are: 
One from Holy Cross Hall. 
Three from 
Regina Hall. 
Two from Le Mans Hal. 
One from off-eampus 
One from day students. 

Patty Kampsen, Election Committee chairperson, hopes that the slate of candidates canbe completed by midnight Wed­nesday."I strongly urge students to consider running for Student Assembly," Kampsen said. "If by midnight Wednesday we are still short of candidates, we will have to extend the deadline until we have enough candidates to run the election." 
If there are enough candidates by Wednesday night, the campaign for Student Assembly will begin at 
8:00 a.m., Thursday, Sept. 20. Campaigning will continue until midnight Sunday, Sept. 23. 
The elections will then be held in the halls from 10:00 a.m. to 6:00 
The Observer is publiShed daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S8 per semester ($14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
p.m. Monday, Sept. 24. A vice president for Regina South will also be elected in the 

~ept.24 election. Regina Hall elects two vice presidents, one from Regina North and onefrom Regina South. At the time of the elections last spring, it seemed unlikely that Regina South would be opened to students this year. As a resut no vice president was elected. 
Any St.Mary's student wishing to run in the Sept. 24 elect ion must submit her name to Patty Ramp­sen by midnight Wednesday. Either come in person to room 405 Le Mans, call Kapsen at 284-5704, or write box 910, St. Mary's College. 

Better results expected 


SLC begins new year today 
by Tom Drape opinion vital, defining the off 
Wire Editor campuses students' relationship to 
Entermg it's Eixth year of the university community. existence, the Student Life Council "If such a relationship isn't (SLCl engages a new effort in established, the off campus
student repr~sentation. student will become isolated 
As a result of last year's student permanently creating two government reorganization, the polarities within the University," 
Observer lnsir:.ht 
SLC now combines with Student Government officers and the HPC chairman to form a Board of Commissioners. Mike Hess, District IV representative, expects a new co-operation and better results for the student body. 

The SLC will begin their year today with what might well decide their future effectiveness; presentation by the administration of the Student Manual to the SLCfor 
their revision and approval. 
District I 
Representing the approximate 1500 off campus students, Bob Kincaid feels his first problem will be in adequate representation. 
Representative Kincaid sees two major r1eeds that the SLC and university must act upon. 
First, aid in finding and securing housing in order to guard against high rents, preferential treatment, and sub standard conditions. 
Secondly, and in Kincaid's 
Friday, Sept. 21 

Notre dame 
all seats reserved prices adults -$3.50 chi/den 12 
$2.00

and under 
Tickets on sale at: 
ACC 9-5 mon.-sat. also gate 3 one hour before 

Last chance to or 
said Kincaid. 
'Reorganizing the SKC as a hope for the o-e student, Kincaid stated the need for aid from all of the student body and government. 
Kincaid wished to reserve comment in any part on the Student Manual until a later time. 
District II Maureen Lathers replaces 
(continued on page 7) 




CHICAGO BLACK HAWKS vs. DALLAS 
7:30 p.m. 
Athletic and Convocation center 


er a 

REFRIGERATOR 3 cubic feet-$40 a year 
free delivery 
free pick-up 

free replacement in faulty 
Call 3834 or 7789 Monday or Tuesday ( l-4 p.m.) 
notre dame concerts/student union presents 
In concert 




CHUCK BERRY 
johnny B· Goode, 
Sweet Little Sixteen, 
Maybelline, 
Roll Over Beethoven, etc. 

My Ding a ling 
plus special guests: The Coasters 

THIS SATURDAY, SEPT. 22 AT 8:30 
Tickets: $5.50, 4.50, 3.00 GOOD SEATS ARE AVAILABLE AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE( ll:30-5:00) AT THE ACC TICKET OFFICE(9-5 DAILY) AND THE DINING HALLS 
, •'' ,• I,., ',• o', 
, . ~ . . ..·. .. 
---~-~-------------------------~------­

Farenthold speaks 
by Maria Gallagher ference Friday upon her arrival at St. Mary's Editor Saint Mary's, speaking on what "Awareness, assertiveness, and she knows best: women in politics. ""Without awareness, a person is 
audacity" are Frances (Sissy) unable to move politically," she 
Farenthold' s recipe >.aid. "Without assertiveness, I'd 
for political succef.s. still be answering phones in Farenthold made the statement at 1\ueces County. Without audacity-­a Stapleton Lounge press con-a.nd here I mean somehtin g that 
Bike registration is deemed success 
by Mark Derheimer Staff Reporter 
"Without question the bike registration was a greater success than last year." This is the way Chris Singleton, student coor­dinator of the project, summed up the bike registration drive which took place Wednesday through Friday of last week. 
This year 320 bikes were registered, doubling last year's total of 160. Approximately one out of six students has a bicycle, making a total of 1000 bikes on campus, according to Singleton. Thus the registration figures for last year coupled with this year's add up to half of the bikes on campus being registered either with Notre Dame security or with Computer Guard, the nationwide registration system. 
Singleton stressed registered bikes are much more difficult for a thief to sell than unregistered ones. 
He believes that "if 100 per cent registration could be achieved, bike thefts at Notre Damewouldgo down." He feels thieves would be wary of a completely registered campus. 
Anyone still wishing to register a bike may do so at the Security Office starting Tuesday, Sep­tember 18. The fee is one doallar. Those people who need serial numbers stamped on their bike should to to the Security Office Tuesday between 2:30 and 5:30. 
Singleton was "quite pleased with the number who turned out voluntarily to register their bikes." He also expressed his gratitude to the 25 students who helped in the registration. 

Chris Singleton and his staff consider their bike registration duties last week a success over last year's program. 
Knights of Columbus --MEETING,_­Monday · 7 p.m. Sept. 1 
refreshments served 

Ladies of Columbus 
meeting · 7 p.m. 
old and new members welcome Tuesday Sept. 18 
hasn't been done before--It will never get done." 
Even with the,:;;e ingredients, Farenthold noted that woman a candidate faces her greatest challenge in that she is often not taken seriously. 
"After I'd been campaigning for some months (for the Texas state legislature) my doting husband sat down with me one night and told me he'd support me openly--if I was a "serious" candidate. Even my family was uneasy about it-­they thought I should have run for attorney general or something --­anything but the legislature." 
She was elected to ~o con­secutive terms before running unsuccessfully for governor. Politics is nothing new to her--her family "has always been politically oriented," and her grandfather, B.D. Tarleton, was a Texas legislator from 1881 to 1886. 
Farenthold feels she has "seena change" in the last fiveyearson the political scene for women. 
"They're more aware now than ever before--and they're getting more opportunities," she said. She credits thewomen'scaucus with the 
breakthrough,  but  added  that  
much still needs to be done.  
"Presently  there  is  not  one  

woman governor or U.S. senator, and a recent survey reported that 
Monday, September 17, 1973 the observer 
3 



on politics 
about 2 percent of all public neglected up to now, but other 
~lective offices are held by women.' issues have been neglected up to 
Now, that might not sound like a now, but other issues have been 
lot but it's an improvement over equally neglected and deserve 
ten years ago." immediate attention." A glance at 
The caucus has a political bent, her myriad affiliations shows a 
but is in the process of broadening broad cross-section of concerns. 
its concerns by increasing the One which she campaigns par­
membership and lobbying for ticularly hard for is the case of 
women in business, education and migrant workers, a problem 
professions as well as politics. Day common to both Indiana and 
care is a top priority. Texas. After the press conference, 
"Already a diversity is reflected Farentholdwent to visit a number of 
in the national board of directors--migrant camps in Marshall 
we hav_e both blacks and whites, County, Ind,., about 25 miles from 
Republicans and Democrats." South Bend. 
Farenthold strongly supports the Farenthold has no immediate caucus,although she emphasized plans to run for public office in the she is not a one-issue politiciabn. near future, but remains an avid 
"I reject the women's issue bystander. 
straightjacket. Women's equal "I'll just wait and see what 
opportunity has certinaly been happens for a while," she said. 
,--------------------...:.._--=--., 
ANNOUNCING··· 
SMC COFFEEHOUSE 
OPENING FRI ~ SEPT. 21 
9:30 p.m. 1:30 a.m.



(!I" 
all interested performers contact 
Kathy at 5168 or Jamie at 4495 



;· 

lj\j 


I 

\\\\ 

During: 

I I 
I ~ Student Billing Service 1 ~ \\\\ makes Sense! There's no reason why you shouldn't \\\~ enjoy the convemence of making long distance calls from your residence hall room phone and receiving a monthly bill for your calls ... and yours only! That service is available right here, right now. Dorm resi­dents may pick up their Student Billing Cards at the Indiana Bell Office. Talk it up. We'll mail you a Student Billing Card, if you'll call 234-5088. Or you can drop in at our Business Office at 225 S. Main Street. Open 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday. 
@Indiana Bell 

thA obs~rver Monday, September 17, 1973 

structive goals but rather they serve to inhibit the independent and free-spirited individual. 
Well, since it's Thursday night we must be off to Nickle's to tio a few sunrises with th rest of the 
boors! Bill Schneider Scott Allen Alumni Hall 
and another... 
Editor: 
It seems that the Office of Student Affairs has found a way to solve the housing shortage and make off-campus living more desirable. Next Spring people will more readily leave a juvenile reform school campus where "model" halls try to t·pset old Notre Dame traditions. If you think that free sociable d. inking is not a part of the Notre Dame tradition, then walk through u,c parking lots before a football game, check the consumption during alumni reunions, or read the ads in The Observer ("Settle down with the natural one. Busch. Especially after the game or before.") 
Respectfully, 
Pat Laughlin 


Critique Critic 

Ectitor: 
Maria Gallagher's recent review of Cat Steven's "Foreigner" reflected a fundamental ignorance of the artist and his music. While Ms. Gallagher validly recognized that Stevens, contrary to many cri­
tics, has indeed progressed with the album's creation, she makes several erroneous comments. 
First, Steven's principal triumph through the work is not in ex­tending the insight initiated in "Mona Bone Jakon". Rather the artist has shifted into a much less predictable, much more vibrant. exciting style. Rhythm throughout is not at all Reggea, Bosa Nova, or 

A Party Advocate 
Editor: 
I was appalled a':d to say the least very disgt.ster· with the front page story in Y"Sterday's Observer proclaiming that no parties would be permitted for the upcoming weekend. This is a serious in­fringement upon the students' rights and a gross abuse of power bv the Auministration. A con­t(nuation of ~uch a policy could cause irrepa1 able damage to anal­ready inadequate social life here at Notre Dame. 
Despite 1oken efforts at coeducati m, Notre Dame still basicall· remains a male in­stitutio•t with a ratio of about 6 to 1. 
The ,arty is a very important equa' zer in overcoming that hand•..:ap here on campus. To cancel them or to try to transform them from their present form to that of a church picnic with a rector, etc., present, would in­timidate those present and would inhibit many from going and from having a good time, having much the same effect as a person's parents would have. It is unheard of for 19 and 20 year olds to have to be chaperoned and held to a tight set of rules in this day and age. ND is one again digressing further back into the past, losing still further touch with 1973 and its ideals and values and with reality in generaL 
Enforcement of archaic rules and 
infringements upon the students 
must be stopped. We are basically 
all rational and responsible human 
beings who can take care of our­
selves. We do not need Mr. 
Macheca, Dean of Students, and 
the other members of the Ad­
ministration babysitting for us. 
We do not need to be told what is 
right and what is wrong and how to 
act. We have our own opinions and 
judgements. We must follow our 
convictions and the Ad­
mmistration must respect us for 
that. They must not try to force 
their values on us. 


daanesbury 
Because SB has so little to offer in the way of entertainment, the students have had to turn to the campus and develop their own amusements.. These are very important outlets for tensions and frustration, which are especially essential in this ·pressure cooker for mark.;; and average!'<. Tht students n,ust be left alone to part• the way they see fit in their dorm. Therefore, I must strenuously urge the SLC to reject the Dean of Students proposal and allow the students some semblance of freedom in letting them seek ou'. their own types of recreation 
Frank McGuire 702 Flanner 
and another... 
Editor: Each summer as we return to the sacred and hallowed halls of Notre Dame, we patiently await the inane proclamations of the SLC or some other buffle-headed ad­ministration. And it took all of nine days for our expectations to be more than satiated. Of course, we are referring to the guidelines which w:ll be presented to the SLC. After reading them very carefully, we are astounded by their ludicrousness. A cloud of fear seems to have pervaded th€ campus oppressing the student body with archaic and indifferent constraints. The absurd idea of forbidding a student the right to exercise his desire to use his room as a social meeting place rather than as a library is an insult to the intelligent and mature student at Notre Dame. College is to be a learning ex­perience both in and out of the classroom and such regulations on the student's free, moral judgements are self defeating as they mold a blind follower rather than a constructive initiator. In closing, we believe that such burlesque rules serve no con-
The Third Great Awakening 




The Flipper and I 

matt kubik 
I've been playing the pinball machine down at Rick's too much lately. I keep seeing that pinball bouncing off the solenoids. :nocking down little clowns, and maybe doing a lazy loop before rollmg down to get socked by a flipper. "It's just a game," I tell myself. It's all just a game you know. I keep seeing tha pinball bouncing around though, slipping down the little chute before jumping off the tip of a flipper. 
The way to good pinball playing is control. Keep your I on the ball. Jiggle the machine a little. Develop good reflexes. The biggest thing is to remain calm as that silver ball goes whizzing around your head. Sometimes you can make the games easier, Oike by putting ash trays under the legs), but it's a trick. Usually everyone can tell, or you think they can, (paranoia). Anyway, you know it's a trick and that is enough. 
A friend of mine cracked up last week, (TILT). Too many pills; too many hassles; r. •1sband and kids got her down. She got excited and the game got away I rom her. She got into making the game harder than it really is. Then she forgot how to play. 
Things start l".!ilding up. The ball goes faster and faster, knocking against bumpers, slapping the flipper. The wire in your head starts getting tight, ad the ball speeds up. Your stomach gets queasy and the bJII careens •orward. Then you hit the machine too hard, or your finger misses a flipper button. The silver flashes down the ramp, flying into oblivion. 
That pinball k· eps spinning around my head; glittering silver carrot in front of my nose. Sometimes lean play better when I'm half stoned, 
or think I can.It's easier to get into the games that way. Party games. Fooling people. Putting on a show: bouncing silver ball off my finger tips, nose, toes. The high goes away, but the ball doesn't. In the end being stoned is just another part of the game. 
I keep trying to watci1 other people to see how they play. That's not easy when your own silver ball is flying at top speed. You find out most people are playing the same way you are. Except the few. They're the ones who could finally just walk away from the games. They're the ones who don't have to play. 
I've never gotten a free game off of that machine. You're supposed to knock down all the yellow clowns and then you get a big bonus and a free game. I've only known one person who got all those clowns. He really had control. A fearless type who wasn't afraid to challenge the machine. I've always wondered what would happen to me if I did that. But I get scared when those laughing faces refuse to fall. One day they 'II all go down. I'll walk away from the machine and won't have to play the games anymore. 
Bela Bartok inspired, but more only contributes a few fragments jazz-oriented. Themes are new, on acoustic guitar.) not re-hashed, and represent a While agreeing with the candor and frankness unique in his reviewer that "Foreigner" is new poetry. perhaps the best Pop recording of 
In addition, the instrumental and the :.·ear, I must insist that it's the vocal background differ from the only new and innovative recording Cal's past work because they are a Cat Stevens has produced product of a staff of studio since his re-birth as a pop-star musicians -all Blacks -including three years ago. the inovative wawa guitar work by Sincerely, Phil Upchurch, a Jazz guitarist Jon Lyons Terlep from Chicago (Stevens himself 



raarry trudeau -----,-----------­
Layout: Dan Sanchez Copy Editor: Rick Thues Day Editor: Mary Janca Typists: Dianne Chermside, Steve Roper, 
Howard Halle, C. Fourre Compugraphic: Bob Steinmetz Picture Screener: Jerome Phillips Night Controller: Joe Abell 



rTonight at 10 WSNDAM & FM "The Use and Abuse of Alcohol'' 
a taped interview with Dean of Students 
John Macheca 
produced by WSND News 

·:..·

·•· l 
j
Monday, September 17, 1973 the observer 5 
j j 

• j j l
mUSIC VS sound pat small j 
Pure Prairie League, who appeared last It's rather hard to judge a concert like Reilly and a good steel guitar solo. 
Saturday at Stepan Center, put on what that one objectively but through all the feed­After a brief intermissin, to get their would have been an otherwise excellent back, Joss of power, and other such acoustic stuff together, the group came out -concert except for one major factor-the technical disruptions, the group performed witha contrified Beatles tune, "'I've Just Seen 
failure to the sound system. In the numerous remarkably well. Their blending of Nash­A Face." Although the harmony was a bit concerts I have attended over the past five ville standards, blue-grass, rock, and overdone in the intro and the ending, it years, indoors or outdoors, small clubs or country-rock provided the audience with worked very well through most of the song. 
mamouth auditoriums, I have never wit­two hours of satisfying music. Perhaps theBeatlesshould have done it as a nessed such a disaster as the one on­country song in the first place. Saturday night. The entire p.a. system soft country rock The group did another standard country whined seethed, gave off static, screeched, tune, a Merle Haggard song, "It's Not Love, 
and generally ruined the whole atmosphere But It's Not Bad", featurng good steel and 
The first set consisted mostly of country­
for the evening. piano. They then performed a couple of their 
rock with a few softer tunes and an unusual
However, it was through no fault of the best songs from Bustin Out, "Falling in and 
ending."Country Sunshine,""Crazy Arms,"
group that this occured. The sound system, Out of Love" and "Arnie," which evoked 
and "Hard Times" showed the band's
which delayed the concert for an hour with favorable responses from the stalwart 
mastery in the country-rock genre. These 
no apparent result, had beenpreviouslyused audience. Another familiar was "Brand 
songs, though the worst hit by sound
in the past by the Student Union (An Tostal) New Harmony Song" from their first 
malfunctions, displayed a good feel for this
without any problems. So as it stood, the album. The acustic set con­
type of music, nice pedal steel work by John 
group was surely more frustrated than the cluded with a country ballad entitled 
Call, and excellent tradeoffs between Call
audience, if that's possible. "Stranger in My Place." 
and lead guitarist Craig Duller. "Sister's Keeper," a soft country tune, 
electric solo 

slowedthe pace down a bit and was followed up with a little bluegrass, "Everitt Bought 
The group returned to electric in­
the Night," whichfeatured some fine banjo 
struments and did Jesse Colin Young's
picking by Craig Fuller. Another soft one, 
"SugarBab'"'"with a hard driving feel and a
"Tulsa County Blue," with vocal by John 
fine guitar solo by Craig. They moved back
Call, brought back fond remembrances of 
to solid country with "She Darked the Sun" the Byrds. 
which featured the talents of Michael Connor on piano. The band closed with bustin out "Take It Before You Go" (fromtheir first 
album J and another country-rocker. The group performed one of their better 
double encore

cuts from their second album (Bustin Out) 
.entitled "Early Morning Rider" that gave drummer Frank Hinds an opportunity to The appreciative audience was rewarded display his fine percussionary skills. with a double encore, the highlight being the 
"It's a Sad Situation," aside from sum­first tune, 'Just Your Gentle Way of Loving 
ming up their technical difficulties, was a Me" (another Byrd song). pleasant Nashville ballad sung in heart­Musically, the group put on a superior break style by Craig Fuller. It was followed performance. Their harmonies, the in­
by one of their better songs of the evening, dividual solos, their tightness as a band, and "Is a Long Way to Nashville," featurng their particular style of music put them on rhythm guitarist George Powell on vocals. par with any country-rock band I've seen or 
The group ended the first set with an old heard. And in judging the overall picture of rock 'n' roll number, "Tassin' the Turnin'," ~reat music and mediocre sound, I'd have to that included a fine vocal by bassist Michael say that the music won out. 




Little Bir:~ Screen 


movie bonanza 
art ferranti 
There are so many good movies this week Fanny Brice. Omar Shariff is on hand as the why the aircraft carriers had left the har­mystery novelists who dabble as detectives. that are exceptional for television, one love interest with Kay Medford (she has bor. The flick's main fault is that it becomes The movie will later this season become hardly knows where to begin. So, I shall played as a regular regular for the past two tedious for the last fifteen minutes before part of the Wednesday "Mystery Movie" start with the largest grossing film and a years on Dean Martin's show> r<:!ceiving an the attack (the attack sequences are worth quartet. This one contains a number of network clash of counter-programming. Oscar nomination for her role as Streisand's the waiting). We get shelacked Friday. familiar faces in its cast. All three of these Bonnie and Clvde made a mint, and Jewish mother. The film is another cinema There are also six suspense-horror films films air tomorrow. rightfully so, in that it became the prototype classic but of a different genre than Bonnie this week, two of them classics also. The final made-for-TV suspense-horror _,for every gangster film since then. and Clyde: that of the musical. The songs Rosemary's Baby , condemned by the film is Satan's School for Girls on Wed­

Directed by Arthur Penn, this study of and performances are superb, especially Legion of Decency or whatever it calls itself nesday. Here we have Roy Thinnes ("The violence and bank robbery during the "People", which has since become the these days, was the first film to explore Invaders") investigating why a number of • depression-ridden years pinpoints forces Streisand trademark. Now, I do not par­<albeit fictionally) witchcraft and Satan girls are committing suicide in a Salem all­<although quite fictionalized) behind Bonnie ticularly care for musicals, but this is one worship in the modern day. Adapted by Ira girl finishing school. Personally, I would Parker and Clyde Barrows' notorious rise notable exception. Levin's novel, director Roman Polanski much rather see the rerun of Marooned, a to infamy. Another characteristic of the leads the viewer down a road of horror as sci-fi thriller. This one features Richard film which can easily be compared to the Pearl Harbor gem Mia Farrow bears the devil 's child. Many of Crenna, James Franciscus, and Gene Hack­Adam and Eve "fall" (i.e. see who entices the scenes were shot in New York City's man as astronauts stuck in space (shades of who to rob the grocery store), is the jux­CBS is presenting the war film that details Central Park. John Cassavetes, Ralph Skylab), with enough air for two. Gregory tapositioning of comedy with stark drama. how it all began with Tora! Tora! Tora! Bellamy, and Ruth Gordon (usually the Peck plays the mission control mogul For instance, when C. W. Moss <Michael J. This $25 million spectacle (which royally saintly grandmother type in other films) and David Janssen the pilot who goes up to Pollard> smashes his car to get it out and flopped in the theaters) shows the stupidity add to the bewitchment this Saturday. try and rescue the astronauts (not all of pick up Bonnie and Clyde for the getaway, I on the part of both sides which lead to the Play Misty For Me has Clint Eastwood them make it). On the soap side of the film, remember laughing along with the devastation of Pearl Harbor on Dec. 7,1941. directing and acting-both for the first time. we have Lee Grant, Mariette Hartley, and audience. But then, Clyde kills the bank The Japanese filmed their side of it and the Jessica Walter plays a psycopath who always Nancy Kovack as the three wives. It is one teller who had been hanging onto the car Americans shot their scenes. The U.S. Navy asks disc jockey Eastwood to play the song of the best of the 2001 spawn. Watch it and, like a slap in the face, the viewer is helped (a few sailors lost their lives during Misty. Only thing is, she becomes jealous of Wednesday. brought back into reality. Starring Warren its filming) and Darryl F. Zanuck has a our hero and starts some horror tactics of Packers and Jets Beatty, Faye Dunaway, Gene Hackman, monumental gem of an historical movie. her own. For those who have seen the film, and Estelle Parsons <she won an Oscar for Filled with familiar actors, the film do not expect to see Donna Mills nude nor Sports and Specials: The N.Y. Jets will this), the film is a landmark in American demonstrates why the planes were huddled Miss Walter in the same state of affairs. attempt •~ zip the Green Bay Packers at cinema; the prime example of the anti-hero in circles on the ground, why we received Those scenes were cut. But when John 8:00 tonight in the season opener of even though the real gangsters were the declaration of war after the attack, and Larch goes to ring the doorbell, you know ""Monday Nite NFL Football" on ABC. Also 
murderers. The bullets riddle on Thursday. 
what to expect. It airs tonight. tonight 1-2 hour before the game, Vince 
Intent on starting a gang war of their own, Lombardi is profiled in "A Man Called CBS scheduled the above film to play op­made-for-TV Lombardi" (clever title ... ). Tomorrow, a •posite the so-called "battle of the sexes". 30-minute show airs which features another On ABC, beginning one hour earlier The rest of the suspense ditties are made­exploit in the life of the real cop behind The 
;
(7:00pm), Billie Jean King will play Bobbie for-TV films, one a rerun. Dying Room Only French Connection and Badge 373, Edward Riggs in sets of tennis that will probably be features Oscar winner Cloris Leachman Egen of the P.D.N.Y. Eugene Roche ("The ~ talked about for some time. Incidentally, menaced by Ross Martin ("The Wild, Wild Corner Bar") stars in this special called I Mr. Riggs is scheduled to appear on the West" and "Mr. Lucky"( and Ned Beatty simply "Egan". It airs at 7:00 on 22. I "Tonight Show" tomorrow evening. Mrs. (Deliverance J in the desert. Terror on the In Memoriam: Michael Dunn, who King is staying clear of public appearances. Beach has Dennis Weaver and Estelle received an Oscar nomination for his role in 
l 
There are rumors that she will cancel the Parsons (again) menaced by some no­Ship of Fools but is probably best known as match. goodniks, one of whom is cutsey "Partridge Dr. Miguelity Loveless in "The Wild, Wild -~ 
I
Family" member Susan Dey. If you enjoy West" died two weeks ago in London at the 
l
Barbra dune buggies, this film is supposed to age of 38 of undisclosed causes. spotlight such a chase. It is my feeling, Trivia Question: Everyone knows that 
On the musical scene, Funny Girl though, that all movie and TV chases are Donald O'Connor co-starred with a mule in premiers Sunday on ABC at 6:30pm. second-rate when compared to those in the "Francis films. Who was the voice of Directed by William Wyler, Barbra Bullitt and 'The French Conection . The Francis? Streisand made her triumphant screen .Snoop Sisters is the rerun which features 
"SIHM debut in this film as the Broadway star Mildred Natwick and Helen Hayes as two IHtO JOl;re JalJlu-eq:~ ueJalaA :Ja/t\SUV 
J 






r--­
1 ' 
I I 
~ 
~ ~ 
I• 
I t I I 
~ 
I 
~ 
I 

the observer Monday, September 17, 1973
6 
Francis speaks on recent coup in Chile 
by Jim Donathen Staff Reporter 

Government Professor Michael 
J. Francis lived in Chile during the summers of 1966 and 1968 and ngain for eight months during 1970 and witnessed President Salvador Allende's campaign and election. He has also written a book on the subject of Chile. 
"I had a great deal of respect for President Allende," said Prof. Francis, a Notre Dame Chile watcher. "I feel extremely bad about the situation: the coup, Allende's death, and the break in Chile's democratic tradition." 
Professor Francis stated that Allende's rise to power was the product of an enormous amount of frustration due to poverty and the government's poor performance and a split in the opposition party. 
Reverend Kenna 
is dead. struck 
by heart attack 
Rev. Howard JJ. Kenna, form~·r provincial superior of the Indiana Province of the Congregation of Holy Cross, died in his sleep o of an apparent heart attack on Thur­sday, Sept. 13, in the provincial house, 1304 E. Jefferson Blvd., South Bend. 
Father Kenna, provincial since 1962, had completed his term in June of this year and was to become chaplain for the Holy Cross Brothers at St. Joseph's Farm, Granger, Ind. He also planned to work in the archives of the University of Notre Dame doing research and writing on the history of Notre Dame and the Congregation of Holy Cross. 
Kenna was born on October 16 1\JOl. in Clontarf, Minn., and moved SO'•n thereafter with his family to Jamestown, North Dakota. He Plitered the Holy Cross Seminary m 192.1 and graduated from the university in 1926. He studied theology for four years at Holy Cross College in Washington, D.C., and was ordained a Holy Cross priest at Notre Dame on June 24 1930. ' 
Kenna was a Fellow of the University of Notre Dame and a member of its board of trustees and a member oftheConference of Major Superiors of religious communitiesof men in the U.S. 

NOW SHOWING 


"DAZZLING" 
-LIFE 
f'.\R.HIOl 'IT PICflRES i"•·•cn•· 
\Hilt. t"tl.'l Thr 
FRANCO ZEFFIRELLI 
I'NWiurtiun nf 



ROMEO 

gjULIET 


Hurry -ends Thursday 

For times and directions, call 288 8488 .. 
His election victory was something of an accident as Allende was able to win the three candidate race with only 37 per cent of the vote. In contrast, Allende suffered a stunning defeat in an usative vote of confidence in 1964 when he polled only 39 percent of the vote in a two candidate-contest. 
From his first day in office, certain groups such as Chilean rightists and the United States which cut financial assistanc~ were working for his overthrow. Allen infuriated the middle class with his economic policies that led to an inflation rate of some 350 percent. Then, the army began to get upset by his talk of arming factory workers and increasing government control of univer­sities. 
Ironically, the run-away in­flation · that hastened Allende's downfall was largely the result of his attempts to redistribute the nation's wealth. As Chile's poor became more able to afford such basic commodities as meat, the laws of supply and demand created 
severe shortages and forced up prices. American business interests in 
Chile  were  seized  in Allende's  
nationalization  of  industry.  
(>rofessor  Francis  doubts·  if  

American industries, such as the copper companies will be given back. "American businesses are not well liked, largely because of the huge profits they made for years from the copper industry." 
There will probably be an election within the year according to Professor Francis. However, the extent of the left's particpation in such election remains un­determined. 
Even if the militant junta allows the left to participate, it seems unlikely that they will run a can­didate for office. Since the rightist opposition has a strong candidate in former President Frei (who couldn't succeed himself in the 1970 electon), a leftist candidate could suffer an embarassing defeat. 
Francis summed up the situaton in Chile as still reins extremely u­nstable, the possibility of a civil warexistsand it remains to be seen if the military junta will follow up on their promise for a return to normal political processes. 
Clubs interested in having HOT DOG STANDS on football weekends must sign up the Office of Student activities (first floor Lafortune) before 5:00 on Tuesday telephone 7308 



The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore located on the Campus is ready to serve you 
"D~penrluble  Quality At Students' Prices"  
Text Rooks-New  & Used  
Paperback  Books  Notre Dame Jackets  
School Supplies  Sportswear  
Drawing ;nsh·uments  Monogram  'Blankets  
Drawing Supplies  Toilet Articles  
Stath;ne:·y  Oesk lamps  

 aeHgious /\rtiGies  

 JGwelry & Class Rings  
Cam :~rc~  ~~  film  Radios & Records  
Typewriters For Rent ­ 

Rental May Apply Toward the Purchase of Your Own Machine hours 9:00-5:00 Monday-Saturday 
.----------~----~-------------------­
Student manual under study 

First SLC meeting today 
(continued from page 2) 
Karen Moty, who did not return, as District II representative of Farley, .. B-;P, Cavanaugh and St. Ed's. 
Lathers believes the combined force of the Board of Com­missioners will "pump new blood into student representation and the SLC in particualr." 
She interprets SLC participation in the revision of the Student Manualas an opportunity for more responsibility for the individual student. 
"While there may be a need for revision, there is an emphasis on student responsibility," said Lathers. 
Describing the combining of SKLC and student government presently as a "peaceful co­existence", Lathers would welcome any cooperation. 
District III 
Included in Representative Ed 
Rahill's District are Keenan, Stanford, Zahm, Holy Cross, St Joe and Moreau. 
Rahill feels that the SLC should 
aid the students in developing 
socially as well as a cademically. 
His long range goals pivot on 
making the SLC more effective. 
Reluctant to specify on revising the Student Manual until today's meeting, Rahill stated that the SLC on the whole is concerned about student rights being pushed aside. 
Rahill noted specifically that the recent statement of enforcement of the current manual's party and drinking rules would remain in effect until the new manual was approved. 
He also felt that the SLC might be under pressure because of the recent statement. 
District IV 
Mike Hess, representing Falnner and Grace, expresses the most concern to the "No-Knock" clause and the party rules. 
The "No-Knock" clause reserves the right for the university to enter student's rooms. It was added to housing contracts at the end of last semester. 
"It was added at a time when no one could question it," said Hess. 
Hess did not care to comment on the party and drinking rule until after today's meeting but he describes it as being a big issue. 
"The administration has kind of left us in the dark with regard to the statement by Fr. Mulcahy and the new manual," Hess said. "All 

University to support new women's tennis club 
Group sports have long been an important part of many students' college experience. Watching from the sidelines is good fun, but Notre Dame women should have the opportunity to participate on a team. 
Ot _;anized women's tennis at Notre Dame can soon become a reality if enough interest is shown. University officials have ex­pressed a genuine intention to financially support such a team. The interested girls must maintain their own club for the '73-'74 season. The club will have scheduled practice times outdoors and in the ACC. No one will be ranked for team play until the spring. 
Recreation, friendly com­petition, and future team play will be the focal pomts. Notre Dame men who would like to contribute 
Private parties are forced by SLC guidelines 
by Tom Russ Staff Reporter 
This weekend the Notre Dame 
campus was enlivened by a series 
of priv::te parties. The hall party 
planned by Fisher and a 4th floor 
section party planned by St. Ed's 
were postponed by the students in 
order to comply with the guidelines 
set by the SLC. 
Most of the parties were con­tained within private rooms. A well-controlled event was held in several rooms on Lyons' 4th floor Friday night, and a 'Saturday night Holy Cross gathering was high-lighted bya well-clothed go-go dancer. A party on Dillon's second floor drew a fairly large crowd Saturday night which spilled into the hallway and was subsequently broken up by the rector. 
WEDDING PHOTOGRAPHY 
BABIES-PORTRAITS 
fast, dependable service reasonable prices 
MICHAEL LONIER photography graphic design 
(219) 234-5822 1132 lincoln way weal I south bend 
their tennis talents to coach and tG provide playing experience are also welcome. 
To get things rolling, a meeting is scheduled in Breen-Phillips basement at 7 p.m. on Tuesday, 
Sept.  18.  Any  
questions,  call  Betsy  Fallon,  
1277.  


I've heard has been through the Observer.'' 
Hess finds particularly upsetting the lack of rationale behind the new policy. 
"On paper it may be a step forwad but really it is a regression into the fifties," said Hess. 
District V 
Sorin, Walsh, Alumni and Dillon will be represented by Jude Bremer, who expects the manual to be open and flexible. 
Bremer participated on a preliminary reading committee before school opened and describes the first draft as "looking good." 
"I think the new manual will be getting away from black and white rules and if successful will really be an improvement," stated Bremer. 
The off campus situiution must also be improved through the SLC and the Board of Commissioners. 
She expects no difficulties in cooperation between the SLC and Board. 
District VI Bob Connolly, representing Lyons, Morrissey, Fisher and Pangborn, projects two immeidate issues for the SLC. The basic question to be dealt with, in Connolly's opinion, will be the party regulation. Stating that he would not ap­prove the regulation as it stands, he felt that such a regulation could not be forced upon the students. He further denoted a need for a changem philosophy of what is a Notre Dame student and what are his rights. Such a change could be brought through the SLC. Connolly feels that a genuine cooperation exists this year bet­
ween  the  SLC  and  student  
government  which  was  lacking  
past years.  

CLASSIFIED ADS 
W"'NTEO 
Wanted: 3 student and 1 gen. admission for Northwestern Call Sue 6746Mary Rose 6800 
Needed: One a11ncuncer to assist cheerleaders during home football games by leading cheers over microphone. Interviews Tuesday Sept. 18 6:30 pm Stepan Center Questions 8067(Anne). 
Need 4 Army tix..Good $. Call Mitch at 233-2961 
Need 4 G A tix to Nortn·vestern game Phone Art 1026 
Loyal alumnus needs 4 general admission tickets for Nor­thwestern; call Maria 1316 
Wanted one ticket for Nor­thwestern, student or general admission. call 7916 
Need 4 G A Northwestern tix . Tricia4527. 
Need one G A ticket to Nor­thwestern gme 9-22. Call Joe at 3418 late. 
Roommate wanted for OC Apt. $45 + utilities. 840 N NO Ave. or call 287-6350 
Need housemate close to campus. $50. utiI ities.234-7022­7022 Jim. 
COLLEGE STUDENTS: Part time work with major ap­pliance corp.Hoursare flexible 20 hrs or more per week. Call 272-8303 for interview. 
Needed -2 GA tix to So. Cal. Will pay good price. Please call Jim 283-1072 
House mate wanted. Portage Ave. area. 233-3202 
Desperately need 2 So. Cal tix. Will pay. Call Joe 3274. 
Fast efficient typist-$2.75 hr. To type minimum of 20 hrs. week. Evenings-weekends only. at my office. Write now 
PO Box 77, NO. 

Want at least two North western tickets. Call Jim 234­5822. 
Needed: 4 GA tix to any home game except Air Force. Call 
John 282-1568. 
FOR SALE 
Hand made Spanish leather boots with zipper-size 8112. Sent as a gift but too small Call 3276 or 1144. $38. 
Stereo headphones Koss E 0 P7 electro static $65. Koss PR04AA$40. Firm. 291-3839 
Amana refrigerator , freezer 22" Brand new, still in carton. Won on TV, sell cheaply. Let's haggle. Dennis 259-7533 
Encyclopedia International Won on TV. Dennis 259-7533 
Chairs for sale. Easy chairs, overstuffed chairs. Free delivery. $5-$7.50. Call. Mrs. Cooper. 272-3004 
FOR RENT 
4 students to share house just oH S. Michigan St. All utilities paid. Reasonable. 291-5869. 
NOTICES 
Elect Lee Pope, bring back his mistress from Austriaand baptize the illegitimate son 
Mixed bowling league will be sponsered by GSU. To begin Sept. 20 For info call 259 -0225 between 8 am -6 pm or 288-1590 after 6 pm. 
Need Money fast? Morrissey Loan Fund is now open Borrow up to $150 Mon thru Fri 11:15­
12: 15Basement of LaFortune 
3 lovable kittens 7 weeks. Fully trained. Free. 2118 or 234-6151 
PERSONAL 
Dear M. M. We miss you here-write soon. Love, D. D. 
Monday, September 17, 1973 the observer 
7 
MONDAY 
T.V. football kickoff 8-9 draft beer 25¢ 

TUESDAY 
pool tournament 


WEDNESDAY 
ladies drinks '12 price after 8 p.m. 


THE RED DOOR CLUB 
110% N. Main 

It sure would be great to have all the time you need for all the things you like to do. And If your reading work load is keeping you from some of the finer things, here's an Impor­tant suggestion. Evelyn Wood Reading Dynamics will show you how to read 3 to 10 times faster with equal or better com­prehension. Once you've mastered Evelyn Wood's method, your reading and studying time wi II be drastically reduced. You'll know some important secrets of test-taking and be able to keep up better with your studies -as well as those social activities you're missing now. Time -that's what it's all about. Do something about it now. 
ATTEND A FREE SPEED READING LESSON INCREASE YOUR READING SPEED UP TO 100% ON THE SPOT 
TODAYand TOMMORRO at 6 and 8 pm 
Center For Continuing Education Notre Dome_ Avenue 


mEvelyn Wood 
Reading Dynamics Institute 
up to 100% on the spot 
I 
~ 
j l 

1 
1 1 I 
l j l 
1 
l ! 
the observer Monday, September 17, 1973 
Wildcats win, impress in opener 
by Vic Dorr victims in mid-season Notre Dame 
Sports Editor runaways--to Athens, Georgia on Saturday, and the Steel City club It used to be easy, so delightfully returned home today, in possession easy. of a 7-7 tie with the always tough 
For the past three or four years, Bulldogs. Notre Dame's football fans have Navy, the first service academybeen able to pick up a copy of the to open its '73 season slate, also did 
Irish grid schedule, read it, and well Saturday, winning 37-8. That then tick off the games which rout came at the expense of figured to be "easy games." Southern Conference fall guy VMI,Sometimes, there were enough of but the Middies are basically the 
those games to occupy most of the same club which outscored the fingers on one hand. Irish, 23-7, in the second half of last "Let's see," a Notre Dame year's meeting between the two follower could gloat, "who's on the teams (a 45-23 win for Notre schedule this year? Okay, there's Daoe), and rookie coach George 
Welch is ambitiously eyeing an
Pittsburgh. Never mind that the gam('·s down there. We'll beat improved season m ·n. them by at least five or six touch­So Pittsburgh's definitely better, downs. How about Army and and Navy, also, may be improved. Navy~ Do we still have them? What about Army and Nor­Great. We'll murder them, and thwestern? maybe we'll be able to gain a little 
The Cadets, despite being the ground in the polls. 
winners of last year's inter-service 
"'Who else? Who do we open championship, may be ir. for a with? Northwestern? Aw, come dreary campaign thiS year. They one. That's good for 4o-7 any day. were hard hit be graduation-­Don't we play anybody rough this Coach Tom Cahill's roster retu!'ns season?" quarterback Kinglsey Fir1k and not 
Yes. it used to be easy, back in very much else-and are saddled "69, and '70, and '71. But that was with a rugged schedule this fall. two. three and four years ago. A Mercifully, perhaps, the Cadets lot has happened since then. A lot didn't play this weekend. But they of programs have improved, lots of open next Saturday with Ten­foundering coaches have been nessee, and the, during the course dismissed, and a lot of ~ootball of their season, tangle with fortunes, suddenly, are on the Georgia Tech, Penn State, Notre upswing. And as a result of it all, Dame, Air Force, and Pittsburgh. Notre Dame's 1973 schedule has There shouldn't be any great become a lot tougher than it ap­surprises created in West Point peared two or three years ago. this fall. but such might not be the 
case in Evanston, Illinois, whereDown in Pittsburgh, first-year Johnny Pont has taken over fromcoach Johnny Majors is working a Alex Agase as the chief care-takerrevival aimed at finding a niche for of Northw~stern 's football for­college football in a towr. agog over tunes. Pont, who did remarkablethe Steelers and Pirates. Majors 
things at Indiana during the
took his Pitt Panthers--long the 


Frosh make ]V's unsure 
game September 22. It is because 
by Pete McHugh of this intense preparation that 
Murphy, in regard to the 1973 JV 
Last year the NCAA ruled that Irish, said, "There isn't one as 
freshmen could be eligible for such right now." 
varsity football, and con­He went on to explain how his sequently people like Steve ''personnel are in a state of flux" Niehaus and Art Best became with many freshmen moving in integral p;Jrts of the Irish football and out of starting positions. "I'll machine.in their first year at Notre probably not know until a few Dame. days before the Michigan game (September 24) who we'll have."
With the NCAA's decision and While most of the recruits "areperformances by freshmen like in the positions we saw them inNiehaus and Best, a freshman high school." he listed Gene Smith football team became obsolete and t l.B-TE 6-3 230), Tony Zappalajunior varsity football was tDHB 6-0 205), and Tom Unis tHBcreated. And for Denny Murphy 5-10 180) as performing(former freshman coach n·ow JV pn isingly in new positions. Inmentor), his job became, if not regard to these freshmen, he hasharder, at least more complex. 
been pleasantly suprised by theirThis season, coach Murphy faces quick assimilation into the Irishthe same problems of not having a system.
set lineup to work with or select Because of the competition forgames to prepare for. His squad is remaining varsity spots and game­again subject to the promotions, condition practices for Nor­demotions and injuries of the thwestern, the JV opener againstvarsity team. 
Michigan originally scheduled forLike the rest of the Irish last Saturday has been moved tocoaching staff, Murphy's chief Monday, September 24 at Ann
concern presently is the 
Arbor.
preparation for the Northwestern 

What determination! Saturday. 
Digger's Frosh beat Shue's Mates, 7-6, on middle ·and-late 60's, did 
something both remarkable and 
unexpected during Saturday's Big 
Ten opener between Northwestern 
and Michigan State. 
He led the once-hapless Wildcats 

to a 14-10 victory over the Spar­
tans. 
The win was NU's first opening­

day triumph since 1967, and it did 
not come without a struggle. The 
Spartans led twice in the game: 3­
0 throughout most of the first half, 
and 10-7 throughout most of the 
second half, but each time Pont's 
Wildcats rallied behind the passing 
combination of junior quarterback 
Mitch Anderson to senior tight end 
Steve Craig. 
A pair of 10-yard receptions by 

Craig put Northwestern on 
MSU's one-vard line with less 
than one minute remaining in the 
first half, and set up Stan Key's 
one-yard touchdown dive with 0:29 
showing. Then, with nine minutes 
remaining in the ball game, Craig 
ran the same ten-yard hook-in, 
took Anderson's pass at the one, 
and carried three Spartan 
defenders into the end zone for 
what proved to be the winning 
touchdown. 
F~om that point on, Nor­

thwestern's patchwork defense-­
young and inexperienced--shut 
down the Spartan attack and 
triggered the kind of locker-room 
madness long absent from Nor­
thwestern's Dyche Stadium. 
"I've seen some pretty happy 

locker rooms," reminded Pont, 
"but I'd have to rate this one right 
up there with the best of them. It 
just feels wonderful that first win-­
we got a monkey off our backs. 
"Our defense did a hell of a job," he continued. "We've made tremendous strides since last spring. We cut down their long runs, and holding a team as quick as Michigan 'State to 10 points isn't a bad job at all. 
"Still, we've got 10 games to go, and this was a pretty tough opener. We went into it cold turkey. Now next week, when Notre Dame prepares for us, they'll have a big advantage from a mental stand­point. They've seen us play, and we haven't seen them at all. And believe me, that makes a dif­ference." 
But the Northwestern coach did not have his heart in looking ahead to Notre Dame. He wanted to savor his upset of Michigan State. 
"What we wanted to do," he siad, "was get the players to realize that we've got confidence with them. That we're not gam­bling with them. We want them to realize that they're winners. 
"After all, you never tire of winning." 
But you do tire of losing, and Pittsburgh, Navy, and No­rthwestern, may have done just that. 

Harriers drop '73 opener 
Rounding out the team traveling to
The Nutre Dame cross country 
Normal were Greg Marino and
team opened its season against 
George Christopher. Marty Hill,
Illinois State University at Normal 
the team captain, was unable to
Saturday. Although ISU won the 
compete because of a knee injury.
meet 24-33, ND had the first place 
Coach Don Faley called it a
finisher Jim Reinhart. The 
"barometer meet" and said
talented freshman paced the Irish 
Illinois State had two things going 
at 25:07 over the five mile course. 
for them "home course advantage
A pair of juniors, Mike Housely 
and one meet already under their
and Mike Gahagan finished fifth 
belt."
and sixth respectively. The other 
Notre Dame entertains Nor­
Irish finishers were Joe Yates, 
thwestern Friday at 3:00 in the
tenth, and Jim Hurt, eleventh. 
initial home cross countrv meet. 





OBSERVER 
SPORTS 
Booters lose debut to IU 
half. Steve Malpica lined up to 
by Hal Munger shoot a direct kick. The Hoosier goalie saved the shot at the left cor Friday afternoon the Irish ner of thegoalbut was accused of soccer club came up on the short moving his feet before the kick. The 
end of a 5-1 decision with Indiana's second attempt by ND went wide powerful Hoosiers. ND stuck with right, and the half ended 1-1. the Hoosiers in the first half and 
ND kicked off the second-half,the score at ttie end of the initial but a pair of Hoosier goals onlyframe was knotted at 1 apiece. 
contribute<l to the Irish dilema.
In the second half, it did not take After the back-to-hack scores,Indiana long to score a pair of NO's defense held strong for a wilequick goals and steal the Irish with Guy Higgins making somemomentum. 
good plays. The Hoosiers, who were 11-0 last 
But Indiana's attackers con­year, kicked off to open the game stantly beat their men to the goaland got an early shot at goal which area, and Steve Burks, a superfastwent wide. The ball was moved Hoosier wingman, made the scorefast and furiously by both sides 4-1. He added an insurance pointwhen at about five minutes into the with about 14 minutes left to play.
game Nick Grosch, the Irish goalie, made a fine slide tackle to Coach Arno Zoske said, "We 
thwart a Hoosier attack. must accept this game as part of Later in the first half, the ND our development. We will make a goalie was called for too many few adjustments next time." He 
steps in kicking the ball after a praised Indiana, stating, "Not too save at goal. The referees awarded many teams will beat them. IV an indirect kick. The Hoosiers They've got good height and good lined up but were charged with speed. delaying the game and never "We came defense
apart on 
kicked. Jut a few minutes later partly due to the fact that our of­they got their revenge by drawing fense was sputtering."
first blood. A corner kick was Zoske is confident these thingsheaded into the ND goal by will come about in the "first few 
Ibrahim Fall. 
games." Indiana is definitely the Notre Dame's score came on toughest opponent, which is not to wild play. The Irish moved the ball "ay that the other games are all near the Hoosier goal. A shot at easy, but it is good to have the 
goal was taken and in 
experience behind them. In the the mad scurry to block the at­future beware of Notre Dame 
tempt an Indiana man bumped the 
soccer. 
ball in. 
The Irish travel to Dearborn 
IV was called for pushing near Michigan to play Oakland their own goal a little later in the tomorrow. 





