On The Inside 
House nixes Nixon 
...page 3 
student poll taken.· 
...page 2 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community · Thursday, November 8, 1973 
Vol. VIII, No. 43 

Lowenstein condemns Nixon 
"Distortion, poison, and extortion" are the elements The President has managed to pay less than a $1,000 in of Nixon's America Congressman Allard Lowenstein, taxes in the last two years. a!T'outspoken Nixon Critic, told about 300 students in The inequities of the tax system were again 
the chapel of Keenan-Stanford Hall last night. illustrated by Lowenstein as he claimed that the 
"Impeachment is what we have to have," Lowen­Washington C.C. ghetto paid more taxes than the stein said. "We have given a stamp of approval to this money they received from all federal programs Corruption." The people must now invoke their received. sovereignty and restore decent leadership in the 
The reason Nixon !lets away with these inequities is Presidency was the plea made by Lowenstein. 
because he can "count on the people not caring," Lowenstein claimed.~ The people need to shake their 
Former Congressman from New York Allard divisions and share the reins of power according to Lowenstein's talk "Nixon's America" ~a~ sponsored Lowenstein. ~ Lowenstein quoted the late by the Student Union Academic Comnnsswn. A lo~g Robert Kennedy when saying that the people have to time friend of the Notre Dame community, Lowenstem begin "recapturing the country." received the 1970 Senior Fellow Award and has several 
Political sabotage and money in people's pocketsND students on his staff so his appearance was almost linked to the favors granted. by the Nixon ad·like a homecoming. 
ministration have to be stopped according to Lowen­stein. He claimed that these corruptions haveAn enthusiastic crowd listened as Lowenstein distorted democracy and elected Nixon.
illustrated the absence of virture in the Nixon ad­Lowenstein said that impeachment would beministration. "We have strayed from government traumatic, but letting a man like Nixon get away with with the consent of the governed." The administration what he wants would be worse.

has lost touch with what America is all about according to Lowenstein. "The momentum to remove Nixon has "I feel very optimistic about America," Lowensteinvery little to do with ideology or politics," Lowenstein said. He felt all politics have~ to change and that "It'ssaid. "It has to do with how people of America feel not enought to remove Nison, It is essential but notabout what the President represents to them." 

sufficient." "The outrage about Nixon coupled withLowenstein feels the impeachment proceedings are in hope can give the people the commitment to get things no way a partisan effort but a virtuous reaction to done." 
corrupt government. 

This is a moment to feel hope Lowenstein said.
said to you the opposite of what he was actually doing." 
"Watch and Enjoy" Nixon wallow in his own
according to Lowenstein. The President's philosophy 

An election rather than the succession of Ford to the arrogance Lowenstein laughed.
is to poison the politcal choices of the American people. 

Presidency is the best way to restore confidence ac­cording to Lowenstein. "We can't have a con­In the question session one student asked what he taminated President selecting his successor." He could do. Lowenstein replied that we should try to
One means of poison listed by Lowenstein was the

advocates using the old law of the land that allowed an communicate with our Congressmen. "Bring pressure 
extortion of money for Nixon's Campaign. He told a

election by the people to fill any vacancies in the to bear on the Congress." "Remove people whose 
story of a businesswoman in New York who was

federal government. aspirations are against America." he replied.
harrassed because she would not donate Money to 

Lowesntein said he felt the young people of America
Creep, The Committee to Reelect the ·Preside~nt. She 

had all the hope, time had energy to bring about theLowenstein went on to list the corruptions of the was told she could make a contribtion by illegal means changes needed. "So many young people don't realize Nixon government. One example given was the im­·•tlined by the Nixon fund-raiser .. She did not and their power."
poundment of housing funds while Nixons homes are beautified with $10 million in public funds. A second immediately was harrassed by the federal authorities. 
"Madison designed it (the Federal government) toexample given by Loowenstein of the deceit of Pres. "Everytime you bought a bottle of milk you hel~d work with leadership." Lowenstein said. TheNixon was the secret bombing of Laos. the President." Lowenstein explained. He told of' told President isn't too powerful according to Lowenstein, " "We spend $51 for every school child in America of $2 million pledged by the milk producers that ~as the damage has been the rise of Richard Nixon." 
while spending $5,000 for every Veitnamese soldier," raised through a federal authorization of a price nse "The crisis will be resolved if the leadership canclaimed Lowenstein. during the price freeze. 
bring out the hope of the people .... rather than fight over the scraps."Nixon manipulates and taints every issue, dividing The real source of Nixon's money was not just the Lowenstein remained after the talk and gave an "off 
the people, Lowenstein explained. political extortion but also a tax structure that protects the record" conversation about the particulars of his The secrecy behind the Laos bombing raid was not "to those who havw money according to Lowenstein. Even criticism of Nixon and the prospects of his own politcal
deceive the enemv but to deceive us." "The President the President knew how to work it Lowenstein said. future. 


Nixon speaks on energy crisis 
By EUGENE V. RISHER measures. "But it will require business hours in shopping cies to draw up contingency pand deepwater ports for oil WASHINGTON WPI) -Pre-some sacrifice by all Arne­centers, and curtailing Christ­plans for rationing of gasoline tankers and begin a five-year,dieting the worst U.S. energy rians." mas lighting and other night­and home heating oil if the $10 billion research program to shortages since World War II, Nixon proposed a "Project time outdoor illumination. 
situation gets worse. His top develop alternative energyPresident Nixon Wednesday Independence," mounted with "We must face up to the energy adviser, John A. Love, sources. 
night proposed reducing hi~h-the same national support that stark fact that we are heading told reporters shortages would "Let us set as our national way speed limits, lowermg went into development of the toward the most acute short­have to get much worse before goal, in the spirit of Apollo and 
thermostats and -if the fuel atomic bomb and the Apollo ages of energy since World War the "horrendous exercise" of with the determination of the squeeze worsens -the first lunar · landing, to make the II," Nixon said. 
World War 11-style gas ration-Manhattan Project, that by the gasoline rationing since the United States totally self­
"In our factories; our cars, ing is imposed. end of this decade we will have 19405. sufficient in energy resources our homes, our offices, we will The President ordered a 50 developed the potential to meet 
Nixon told the nation on radio by 1980. 
have to use less fuel than we m.p.h. speed limit for federal our own energy needs without and television from his White Among his other proposals, are accustomed to using," he vehicles, and thermostats set at depending on any foreignHouse office that the sharp some requiring congressional said. "Some school and factory 68 degrees in federal office energy sources," the President 
cutback in oil supplies from approval, were to prohibit c~al­schedules may be realigned. buildings, and urged similar said. Arab producers in the Middle burning utilities and industnes Some jet flights will be voluntary steps by the general Aside the Middle East war,East war threatened a domestic from converting to oil, case-by­canceled." 
public. He said he would seek Nixon said the basic U. S. shortage of as much as 3 case suspension of federal anti­But he said his program of to make a 50 m.p.h. speed limit energy crisis was a product of million barrels a day. pollution standar<ls, jet fuel nationwide sacrifice "does not mandatory if the voluntary "peace and abundance," with 
"The fuel crisis need not allocations that could reduce mean that we will run out of program doesn't work. the average American consum­
mean genuine suffering for any commercial air flights by 10 gasoline or that air travel will He urged Congress to act ing as much energy in a week American," Nixon said, an-per cent, and year-long use of stop, or that we will freeze in quickly on long-standing re-as most other people do in an nouncing a sw~eping program daylight savings time. . our homes or offices." quests for authority to build the. l . entire year. 
, . of emerge~cy b,el~-tigh.tening . l., He also ·proposed shortenmg · ,Ni?C!>n Qrd~red ·federal agen" 'trans•Alaska oil pipeline, ex­
Thursday, November 8, 1973
l. the observer 
warld 
briefs 
SAIGON UPI -Vietnam's shaky truce was strained to the breaking point Wednesday when South Vietnamese jets bombed Loc ~inh, the _Yiet Cong's "capital" city, and th.e Commumsts retaliated with another ground 
sweep mto a government base 120 miles northeast of Saigon. 
WASHINGTON UPI -Republicans held onto the governorship in Virginia and lost it in New Jersey Tuesday, but he national chairmen of both parties and spokesmen for President Nixon discounted effects of the Watergate scandal on this and other scattered balloting. 
"Watergate certainly doesn't appear to have been a determining factor," GOP National Chairman George Bush told reporters at party headquarters Wednesday. 
Robert Strauss, chairman of the Democratic National Committee, said he detected little fallout from Watergate, but rather a clear message to politicians to move to the middle of the road. 
Press Secretary Ronald L. Ziegler said he had 
discussed the results with the President and they agreed that "Watergate did not have an impact on the elections this year." 
PHN OM PENH UPI -Rebel forces killed or cap­t~re~ 700 g~vernment soldiers and civilians fleeing the distnct capital of Srang early Wednesday in what may h_ave been the bloodiest battle of the Cambodian war field reports said. ' 
The reports said about 450 other persons -half of them C~n~bodian soldiers-had managed to escape the mass killmg and prisoner round up by the Khner Rouge,. who had only hours before captured the strategic town 26 miles southwest of Phnom Penh. 
an campus taday 
4:30 pm lecture, library audit. 
7:00 pm -lecture, the new novel: an international approach, stapleton lounge. 
7:30 pm · charismatic renewal, introduction to movement, half way house. 
8:00 pm · drama, "optimism", I'laughlin aud .. 
at: nd-smc 


IN EVERYONE'S LIFE, THERE'S A 


SliMMER OF ~2 
3 SHOtYiNGSI 7, 9, & 11 pftf. fr4CiNeER!t.G AIJDiTo"RiiJM ot.ty $1.00 

NOV£MB£R 9 
~ 
Student poll 
on Nixon 
conducted 
Ninety-two per cent of Notre Dame students believe President Nixon was either involved in or had knowledge of the Watergate break­in or cover-up. 
In a poll conducted last week Omicron Delta Epsilon, th~ economics honor society found that only five per cent of those polled believe Nixon was not involved. 
Although large numbers of students believe Nixon was in­volved, other questions tend to show that not all students view this involvement with the same degree of seriousness. 
The poll was taken in light of recent events related to Watergate. Despite these events, 65 per cent of those polled feel the administration still has credibility, and less than half, 49 per cent favor impeachment. ' 
A smaller percentage of people on the national scale favor im­peachment. During a mid-october Gallup Poll, 33 per cent favored impeachment while 53 per cent opposed it. 
The poll of Notre Dame students had the following results: 
1. 
In the light of recent events do you think President Nixon wa~ involved in or had knowledge of the Watergate break-in or cover-up? 

Yes 92 percent No 5 Undecided 3 

2. 
Do you feel the present ad­ministration has any credibility left? Yes 54 percent No 43 Undecided 2 

3. 
Should President Nixon be impeached? Yes 49 percent No 38 Undecided 13 

4. 
On a scale of zero to five with five being most detrimental: how would you rate the effect of Watergate and other scandals of the present administration on the workings of our government? zero--less than one per cent 


one--0 two--8 per cent three--25 per cent four--38 per cent 
(continued on page 7) 

The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the stuoents of the Unive,rsity of Notre Dame and St. Mary s College. Subscriptions may be purchased for sa per semester ($14 per year) from The Obs_erver Box Q, Notre Dame, lnd1ana 46556. Second class postage paic:l, Notre Dame lnd 
46556. ' . 
TONITE 




SENIOR BAR 
presents 
FALSTAFF BUCKET NITE 
Over 100 lucky winners will receive Falstaff buckets and for only $.75 winners can fill their 56 oz. Falstaff buckets with America's premium beer. 
Only 75¢ and you keep the bucket! 
Prizes * Posters * T-Shirts * Hourly Specials 9-12 
Why such a great deal? Because we're all in this togetherI 
FESTIVITIES BEGIN AT 9pm. , 
~--------------.. ~.. ~·-··~~~~~~~~~ 

:--i'l.''f'ih!irifflhi...~ 
1 1
WITH COUPON 
Snow Recaps



i~utii:;;.j 
$ 2 2 9 5 560-15 

' ' (plus F.E.T.)
I ANY 6 CYL. U. 5. AUTO I :ADD $4 FOR 8 CYL. CARS.: 1 AIR COND, CARS $2 MORE , 1 
: INCLUDES PLUGS, POINTS,: 
: CONDENSER, CHECK : 

: ~~~~~CET~~~s~~~~;~~ ! :·······················~ Premium 4 Ply Nylon
• • • ·G.i!lf.t.,.i.lltg.lfj•t 
WITH COUPON 
FROITEIDa 

Snow Tires 
Ali&IMEIT ,~ 

MOST F78·14 Blackwalls start as low as 
AMERICAN ~ CARS 
$1695 
(Plus F.E.T.) 
PARTS EXTRA 
IF NEEDED 
,............................... 
• • -w.t¥fJi11Mi•iitp.i§M·. ~ 





20% OFF
WITH COUPON • 

BRAKE RELIJIIJIG .l on all tail pipes,
I 
;~:~~N ~;::sj 
exhaust pipes, and
$2995 l 
' 


' mufflers. 
INCLUDES FULL ' INSPECTION I ' 
: FLUID AND CLEAN,
, 
r•• ... ' ' 
Vl\1 UI\!JLE COUPON 


Discount Tire Service 
SHOCK 50595 U.S. 31 North
SALE 

$444 272-1023 PLUS IISTILUTIOI 
OPEN DAILY TIL 6 SATURDAY TIL 4 

-THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 8 
• .--1 ••• • -' t J ·• < • I 1 o o o o r ···If' ··• .-.• ,..• •" •" J' J' ,.f J'"' " '" ... 4 • "' • ,. oA • • • 4 "' • "" "" • • .... ""' .. "' a 0 "' • " a .. "' • o. " • '' ~. <# '• ,. 0' ~· ~ " ~ ,.-V 'f t • 0 t • • t t t I t • t ••• t t t I 
......... I# .•• ,. ...... -, • ' .... 

Thursday, November 8, 1973 
the observer 

House overrides Nixon veto 
By KIM WILLENSEN was a "potential disaster."
WASHINGTON (UPI) -By a A total of 86 Republicans andfour-vote margin, the House 198 Democrats voted in the

overrode Wednesday President Nixon's veto of a bill limiting House to override, while 103 
Republicans and 32 Democratshis power to wage war. The voted to sustain the President.
Senate was expected to agree Opponents in the House saidand thus give Congress its first it could damage U.S. policy inoverride in Nixon's second the current Middle East crisisadministration. 
and would have tied the handsThe House vote was 284 to of previous Presidents like John135, four votes more than the F. Kennedy and Franklin D.
necessary two-thirds, despite Roosevelt in dealing withimpassioned pleas by vice foreign enemies.
presidential nominee Gerald R. 
Ford said the bill carriedFord, R-Mich, and other "the potential of disaster for usconservatives who said the bill 
Off-Campus shuttle has disappointing start 
by Ken Bradford Staff Reporter 

The Student Government Off­Campus Shuttle Bus made its first runs yesterday morning and af­ternoon. 
A disappointing turnout of eleven off-campus students made use of the first two evening trips Wed­nesday afternoon. 
"It'll take a little while for the students to find out about the bus," Leroy Chambliss, the afternoon bus driver, said. 

The bus, which leaves the Circle at half-hour intervals in the early morning and late afternoon, covers a six-mile route for ten cents. 
The bus makes numerous stops along the route which covers concentrated areas of off-campus housing southwest of Notre Dame. 
"We're supposed to stop at every corner along the way," Chambliss said. "If the students recognize the bus, it'll stop if they wave at 

it."  
Students riding  on  the bus  ex­ 
pressed  their  approval  of  the  
shuttle service.  

"It's exactly what I've been hoping for," said Mark Romzick. "It certainly beats bumming a ride." 
Wally Balon added, "if the bus is on time, it'll really be convenient during bad weather and cheaper than driving too." 

Mike Flynn, a senior living off­campus for his second year, had no comment on the bus service but suggested that "nixon should resign." 
Universal Artists proudly presents in South Bend 
An Evening With 
TODD 





RUNDGREN 
SUNDAY, NOV. 11th 
8pm 

Tickets available at Student Union Box Office, 11:30-5:00 daily. 
MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 
211 North Michigan Avenue Downtown South Bend, Indiana 
TICKETS ARE NOW ON SALE: MORRIS CIVIC BOX OFFICE, 11-5 daily and at BOOGIE RECORDS. $4.00 (ad­vance(, $4.50 (day of concert) 
at this juncture, to take away support from the President as he works day and night with the secretary of state to achieve peace." 
"We are not out of the woods yet," Ford said. "We may be a long way from being out of the woods. I'm very concerned that to override this veto at this time could ... ruin the Presi­dent's position." 
He added that while Nixon was willing to accept some kind of war powers legislation, he did not want in the bill's two provisions that he said in his Oct. 24 veto measure were both unconstitutional and dangerous 
to  the  conduct  of  U.S.  foreign  
policy:  
-A  60-day  limit  on  war  
making  abroad  without  positive  

congressional approval, plus 30 more days to disengage the troops if they can't be withdrawn earlier. 
-Authority for Congress to force an end to hostilities before that by a concurrent resolution requiring only a simple majority of both houses and not subject to veto. 
Rep. Samuel S. Stratton, D­N.Y., argued that the bill would actually have prevented Kenne­dy from acting in the Cuban missile crisis and would have stopped Roosevelt from sending destroyers to protect merchant convoys in the North Atlantic from German U-boats before the United States entered World War II. 
But backers of the bill pointed out that nothing in it would have prevented Nixon from acting as he did during the recent Mideast crisis with the Soviet Union. Congressional consideration of military action would only begin when troops defected because of Nixon's actions in the Watergate tapes crisis and .alarm at possible 
were  actually  engaged,  they  
noted.  
The  votes  to  override came  
from  both  Republicans  who  

U.S. involvement in the Mi­deast, and liberal Democrats who abandoned their previous position that the bill gave the President powers he did not have under the Constitution. 
A White House statement said Nixon was "extremely disap­pointed" by the action. 
"He feels the action seriously undermines this nation's ability to act decisively and convinc­ingly in times of international crisis," the statement said. "The confidence of our allies in our ability to assist them will be diminished by the House's action. 
"Our potential adversaries n1ay be encouraged to engage in future acts of international mischief because of this blow to our deterrent posture." 




Acareer in law­
without law school. 
What can you do with only a bachelor's degree? 
Now there is a way to bridge the gap between an undergraduate education and a challenging, respon­sible career. The Lawyer's Assistant is able to do work traditionally done by lawyers. 
Three months of intensive training can give you the skills-the courses are taught by lawyers. You choose one of the six courses offered-choose the city in which you want to work. 
Since 1970, The Institute for Paralegal Training has placed more than 500 graduates in law firms, banks, and corporations in over 40 cities. 
If you are a student of high academic standing and are interested in a career as a Lawyer's Assistant, we'd like to meet you. 
Contact your placement office for an interview with our representative. 
We will visit your campus on 
TUESDAY,NOVEMBER13 
The Institute tor Paralegal Training 
235 South 17th Street. Philadelphia. Pennsylvania 19103 (215) 732-6600 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT 




OFF-CAMPUS BUS SHUTTLE 

MORNING ROUTE AFTERNOON ROUTE 
(Monday-Friday) (Monday-Friday) 
{Direction reversed from morning route) 
leave Circle leave Michigan-Navarre Arrive Circle 
/ leave Circle Arrive Michigan-Navarre Arrive Circle*7:35 7:55 3:35 4:05 7:55 8:25 "i/ 4:05 4:35 
8:25 4:35
8:55 5:05 
NA ARRE J (

8:55 
9:25 -· LINe t § 5:05 5:35 
9:25 9:55 ~---.. __,_-~· 5:35 +5:55 
1 LASALLE 

*The first bus does not leave from circle, *The last bus does not return to campus, but, instead, starts a_t~ Mi~c~ig,qra•.q{lq .Nav.c;ur.e.. but, instead, ends at Michigan and Navarre. 
' 11 t;, '. ..1, '"· ,._ \ , • ' 1!1 .. • ..... " • • • • ~
· 

. . . -------;---·-···­
" •••• '~ .• ,. • • ... ...."'\~, .... "'loo ..... ;, • -...... -................................ 6-• "-.. .. .. .. ~ ..-.. .,.,.. .....,......,.t. "P.i. • ~ 




THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Art Ferranti Executive Editor 
Lee Gentine Business Manager 

We Need Direction 
It is extremely unfortunate when a representative body is forced to tem­porarily halt i~s process in mid-stream because of the resignation of its recoginzied leader. Indeed, that is one of the greatest fears that is presently confronting the American government in the wake of continued calls for the resigantion of President Nixon. 
The Hall President's Council, one of the three arms of student government on the Notre Dame Campus, is currently faced with much more than a fear of that unenviable position. 
In thewake of the resignation of their chairman, the HPC must hesitate, three months into the governing year, and choose a new man to lead them in their efforts to offer direction through coor­dination of this campus' dormitories. 
And that choice is a crucial one, for the halls of Notre Dame are about to be confronted with their most trying problems since the inception of the stay­hall system. 
If hall life is to suitably adapt to the recent changes in the student manual guidelines, then we certainly need more than endorsement by the SLC, the Central Staff, or Fath~r Hesburgh himself. 
Most importantly, Notre Dame needs stong leadership that arises from the group that represents the students in the halls where the guidelines are to be ef­fective. Hall governments are the key to successive social interaction based on the new guidelines, and that effort must be coordinated by a strong central body--the HPC. 
And successive social interaction is not an easy accomplishment; all past revisions of student life codes have failed to provide such interaction. It would be very easy for the newguidelinesto remain a list of restrictions rather than realize their potential as the basis for social upheaval on this relationship-starved campus. 

r But thattaskis a difficult one. And hall governments without a doubt, spell the
~ 
difference between the present stagnant situation and possible growth. The task 

daanesbury 

CtR.TAINLY. AN6t<.OR. WAT ArR-410 YOUR. 
Y£5, 1'11 

GOT IT A F!3W YEARS AGO. INFO's CORRECT, 
TA PROHM, THE AKY0/1 5T£P 
BOSS. MOST Or 

PYRAH/0~ TH/3 LATE KHMEr< : 1H&SC PtAC&5 
8VIUJIN65, !3V!3N 1HE ki~TE!?N o PIER& O&C!/1.4TEO. 
ROYAL-TERRACES -AU OF THESE IllER£ IJESTROYifJ
~ I 

~~~/~ IN THE WAR.. ... 
Jerry Lutkus Editor-in-Chief  Dan Barrett Executive Editor  
I  
NEWS:  283-1715  
EDITORIALS:  283-8661  John Kloos  
BUSINESS:  ?113-7471  Advertising Manager  

Thursday, November 8, 1973 
demands inventiveness and the willingness to fail in order to later suc­
ceed. 
And most of all, the task demands the leadership of an individual with the daring to lead all of the halls into that stab at the darkness which has for so long characterized the social situation here. 
And that l1eader's challenge will not end there. 
In the spring, it is quite likely that the campus will experience overcrowding situation very similar to the one that occurred last year. And we need the leadership 1to avoid the chaos that con­fused the entire on-campus population during the ]past semester. 
But these issues are just the start. We need a leader. Not for any specific cause, but just because we need direction. 
Throughout the first six week's con­troversy ov~er the revised guidelines, the student body had no one who stood out as representative of the student's interests. This is not to say that certain elected officials didn't offer suggestions for revising the administration's proposals. 
But suggestions are not the mark of a leader. They should rightfully arise from people who are led. 
The HPC needs a strong leader because they need a person who can rise above the student body as a whole and provide both that elected group and the electorate with direction--moral direction--that this campus is sorely lackin~?; at the present. 
We need direction to help us face the need for S(Jicial interaction. We need moral direction to help us face the need to house our felllow students both on campus and off. We need moral direction to help us become what Notre Dame is supposed to be educating us to become--men and women able to provide moral direction to the world in which we are unavoidably a part. 
If this is too much to ask of any 
member of the HPC, then perhaps we 
must look elsewhere. But for now, the 
Hall Presidents have the opportunity to 
offer this campus what we sorely lack 
and desperately need. And that direction 
cannot arrive too soon. 
For some of us, the time is growing short. Butch Ward 

r:.arry trudeau 
~-------------------­
IN FACT; I 11/EU, If taRE THINK Ill& CAN GOIN6 INTO 60 7lJ ONLYA THE JIJN6t&, 
:! 60T SOME COt/PtE Or 1HE ;: BETTER.. 
110RG BAO 5161/TS /ERE. ANO R.EH l/P. 
NEW§, 8055. 
THEY'Re IN THE IVHERE5 1HE Jl/NGU( HOTEL.? 
I 
I I 


America's Children 
Ramblings 
.. f ' 
:\ ·~ ;..-ry lutkWI
l 
Afew nights ago, Tom Snyder, the host of the NBC show Tomorrow admitted that many of his associates in the news business hated President Richard Nixon ... a statement that blares the obvious. 
But when you hear someone who is in the business of objectively reporting the news, admit that, you begin to wonder. My reaction to his statement and my resulting reaction to the news that is written by these Washington correspondents is the same reaction I had when the White House revealed that two of the Watergate tapes were missing­"Do you really expect me to believe that?" 
--The President's handling of the tapes and the entire Watergate affair has been a mockery. He takes a firm stand and then slowly moves away from that stand. It's as if he's hanging by his fingernails from a cliff. When his grip lets go, he falls a little way until he gets another fingerhold. And slowly he falls all the way down the cliff-­never destroying himself, but simplyhurtinghimself as he haltingly makes it all the way down. 
You know the commercial that equates truisms with aspirin?Well, it's time to add one to their list... "The Vietnam war is over." Last night our President even fell into that truism when he told the American people that the Vietnam War is over. There is an odd American view that as long as Americanboys are not dying, then there is no war. 
Presently our country is pouring military aid into South Vietnam to support the corrupt Thieu regime. S. Vietnamese-you know those poor sub-human beings that Americans believe exist there--are still dying, supported in the war by American military hardware. But the war is over, right? 
--Likewise Senator Mak Hatfield has fallen into the same rut. He said that he was prepared to submit legislation into Congress that would specifically prohibit any American soldier from setting foot into the Midesst War. That's a wonderful idea, but it falls too short. Why not extend it to prohibit America military aid from going there? Just because no Americans are dying there, it does not mean that we are not supporting warfare that is killing people. 
During the height of the war, you could look at the pictures of the downed aircraft and read the instructions off the side of them, because the instructions were in English. No, we are as much involved in that war as we would be if we sent troops. 
It struck me as remarkably ironic that a matter of days after the two major powers sent tons of military hardwre into the Mideast, they sat down and worked out a peace initiative. That's absurd. The greatest peace initiative that the two powers could write would be a piece of paper saying, "No More Arms!" 
And the American people must accept the responsibility for these actions of its government. We are as responsible for the deaths of 
Vietnamese and Arabs and Israelis as the soldier who fired the gun and as the politician who started the wars ... because we allowed it to happen. We allowed our government to send arms to the Mideast that resulted in hundreds of deaths. 
I know this sounds remarkably self-righteous, but like Thomas More, we are victims of our silence, because silence implies consent. And we havebeensilent. Our silence is telling our government that do not care what they are doing or we agree with them. In either case, 
what we are giving them is the carte blanche. Because we have given them this free hand, we must accept both the consequences and responsibility for what is done in our name. 
--If you think that things should be changed, you have one major weapon, the vote and the pen. Write your congressman now and make it clear to him that there are millions of students who now have the vote. And tell him that unless he gets off his duff and into gear that it just might be time for some house cleaning in Washington. You've got two basic powers, use them. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
the observer 
Nite Editor: Albert D'Antonio Assn't nite ed.: Rick Blower Layout: Any Moriarty Sports: Peggy Lawler, Greg Corgan Day Editor: Jack Kelly Compugraphic: Mike Goetz Nite Controller: Phil Orscheln Typists: John Flannagan, Tom Modglin, Howard Halle Visitors: Valerie and Margie 
Associate editors: Marlene Zloza, Rod Brage, Anthony Abowd Managing editor: Joe Abell Features: Kathy Schwille Wire Editor: Ann McCarry SMC Editor: Maria Gallagher 
-Editorial· .Edit9r:" MY best frien?. • ~·. ·,_.,:.,." ,,:'/ _-//,/////~.' News Ec;litor: ·Ton)"'Dr~pe .. :_t ~-~~f.~"/'~·.. /.'//////~ 
. __ _j 

-~--~­

-------. 
rhursday, November 8, 1973 
the observer 
5 

two centuries of art: the notre dame art gallery 
Ed. note: The following article is the first 

casey pocius
in a series by Mr. Pocius about the Notre Dame Art Gallery. Future stories will focus government set up by Mussolini and Hitler. 
overnight during the course of the Braschi paintings are not what they were on temporary exhibitions as they open in an It is a testament to the man's courage as exhibition. Once the back doors of the main once thought to be. Still, some of the workseffort to acquaint readers with the works on well as his intense creativity that he made gallery had to be removed to accomodate a can be exhibited today as fine examples of
display. the preliminary drawing for· his "Pieta" particularly large piece of sculpture. Still, less well-known painters, such as Francescowhile imprisoned, brown butcher
There's a wonderful, wonderful world using these were minor inconveniences when Allegrini, Jacopo Vignali or Andre Leone. 
down here," said Steve Bennett, unlocking paper and charcoal that a sympathetic compared to the problem of locating By 1925 the collection had grown to about the vault door, "you could spend a whole guard had smuggled him. He was later Mestrovic 's "Pieta "in Sacred Heart two hundred and twenty-four works, a lifetime here." This display of exuberance released as a result of Vatican intervention Churcy, for which purpose an entire section substantial part of which had been donated was nothing new for Steve, an art history and spent the latter part of the war in of wall had to be removed and then rebuilt a year earlier by Charles A. Wightman, for student at Notre Dame and a staff member Switzerland. after the statue was moved in. whom the Wightman Memoiral Art Gallery at its Art Gallery, but you would have To stock this exhibition the Gallery is These are problems, to be sure, but their named. Numerous stories told
was are 
thought that it was the first time he'd ever borrowing several pieces on a "carte scope is indicative of a successful Gallery in about trips to the Gallery and its crowded been down to look at the Gallery's per­blanche" basis from Syracuse University, operation. Today you can walk into the walls. Housed in four rooms on the second 
manent collection. He was showing me where the artist also taught, as well as some Gallery at any time and view several first­floor of the old library (the present Ar­pieces from the private collection of Mrs.
around and, while I had been determined to rate exhibitions but this wasn't always the chitecture Building) one hears tell of give the collection a dispassionate look­Mestrovic. Included in this exhibition, case.There had been a small group of paintings hanging above radiators, water over, his enthusiasm was infectious. As he according to its planners, will be a "big paintings at Notre Dame from the time of its fountains and beneath windows covered.by
slid the large screen back and forth that surpirse" which will take the form of a very founding in 1842. In the spirit of John Car­.shades. hold the paintings I got the impression that important large piece not previously seen dinal Newman's observation that the While the period between the two wars
by the general public. 
he was showing me his personal collection university as a center ofexcellence should . was not as fruitful as the preceeding era had instead of one worth over five million The problems of running a university art have "a place for seeing galleries of first­been, the University collection took a dollars and kept in temperature and gallery these days are numerous, but as rate pictures," the University had started dramatic upswing in the years followinghumidity controlled vaults. Still, these Dean Porter, the Gallery'sCurator, puts it, an art collection when most of Indiana was World War II. In 1952, an art gallery was
"the student body here deserves being
works of art belong to Steve and me just as still a wilderness. Little is known about the included in the plans for the new College of
worked for." And throughtout the year,
they belong to the Notre Dame community nature of this collection because the records Art and Letters and the name was changedand the forty thousand visitors who tour the there is plenty of work for Gallery Director and most of the pieces were destroyed by a to the Art Gallery of the University of Notre 
Art Gallery each year. Father Anthony Lauck, Curator Porter and fire in 1879. Dame. This new structure providedThe late nineteenth century marked the professional care and a controlled en­"Today you can walk into the Gallery at any beginning of serious art collection at Notre viroment for the growing collection. It also Dame. More than anyone else, Luigi · made it more accessible to both the student 
time and view several first-rate exhibitions Gregori was the man responsible for this body and the general public. No longer new start. Gregori, the artist who painted · tucked away in cramped quarters, the
but this wasn't always the case. . II 
the Columbus murals in the Administration collection could be viewed in a wing of its This year the Gallery has planned a total their staff. Almost all college ad­Building, had been commissioned by Father own, off the main entrance to the largest 
of nineteen shows, ranging from an ministrators today would acknowledge the Sorin in 1874 to come from Italy and paint hall on campus. exhibition of ancient and medieval objects importance of maintaining art collections the Stations fo the Cross for Sacred Heart to the experimental photography of Dick and exhibition areas in their institutions, but Church. He brought with him a large group At this time an enormous conservation 
Stevens and Todd Walker. Starting in late to do so is becoming more and more dif­of Italian drawings whcch he utilized in ·problem existed involving paint loss, dirt October, the Gallery will featyre a show ficult. The past few years have seen an executing his commission. THis group of . and indiscriminate over-painting. Professor entitled "The New Portfolio of Josef Albers: upswing in museum construction and more than two hundred drawings represent Hans Tietze was asked to study the FormulationArticulation." The core of this acquisition of art works by America~ the University's earliest surviving collection and make recommenations as to exhibition will be formed by a set of thirty­universities. While this recognition of the benefaction, important because they reflect which paintings should be kept and which three prints donated by the artist in memory importance of art is heartening, it has also the artistic heritage of eighteenth century sold. Although his program was never of Father Howard Kenna, the late caused colleges and universities to compete Italy. carried out completely, his notes have Provincial of hhe Congregation of Holy with municipal art museums in an in­Apart from his work as a painter, Gregori formed the basis for the coming of age of the 
Cross of the Indiana Province. Albers is creasingly spare and inflated market. was also active as a conservator while at Notre Dame colleciton. Not only has this noted for his .dramatic fustion of color and Works of art from earlier periods of any Notre Dame, During a stay in Rome, program of conservation saved numerous form, especially in his "Homage to the quality are becoming more expensive and Gregori had worked as a cataloguer and works from permanent loss but has also Square" series, and his show promises to be .hard to find. Unless supported by generous resotrer for the Vatican, a practice he brought to life many works previously the highlight of the fall. In January, the collectors or some kind of special fund, the continued at Notre Dame. One account hidden under years of dirt and paint ac­Gallery is scheduled to present the second in college or university that had not started an tells of how Gregori, while cleaning a cumulation. 
an annual series of exhibitions focusing on art collection of any historical dimension painting with acid, accidentally discovered Presently, the Art Gallery occupies an works by the faculty of a neighboring in­before ten or fifteen years ago is going to be the underneath the top layer of paint was an entire wing of O'Shaugnessy Hall. The stitution, this year the University of Min­faced with the nearly impossible task of old master painting which he promptly facilities include a large gallery used nesota. As was the case last year, Notre building a collection now. attributed to Sir Anthony Van Dyek. primarily for continuously changing olan Dame will send the work of its faculty to the Unfortunately, no endowment fund was Although this labeling was later found to be exhibitions and four adjacent galleries in 
participating school. In this way the erroneous, Gregor's influence and guidance 
established for the purchase of art objects·at which portions of the permanent collection 
students and faculty of both institutions are Notre Dame. Consequently, the Art Gallery of the budding Notre Dame collection are exhibited throughout the year. Beneath given an opportunity to see what their must rely almost exclusively on benefactors cannot be overlooked. the gallery itself is the curator's office, a 
By 1917 Notre Dame had acquired "a
contemporaries are doing. to add to its collection. In 1951, for example, laboratory and the three vaults where the 
Perhaps the biggest and most important the Gallery received as a gift some im­collection of twenty-five canvasses by permanent collection is stored when not on exhibition of the year will come in the spring portant paintings from the Fisher collection notable painters, fourteen drawings and display. A lot of people, I suspect, take all with the unveiling of the Ivan Mestrovic in Detroit. The addition of this fine group of three pieces of bronze." according to the this for granted as they pass the Gallery to 
show, a major exhibition of drawing and paintings gave the Gallery a lorge core of preface to the first catalogue of the ·and from their classes. For some, a quick 
sculpture by Yugoslavia's celebrated son collection. Also in 1917, the President of the look through the glass doors is as close as
first-rate works. Similarly, the Kress 
and Notre Dame's first artist-in-residence. Foundation's gift of seventeen paintings in University, Rev. John W. Cavanaugh, they come to the "wonderful world" that 
Mestrovic came to Notre Dame in 1955 and 1961 helped brpaden the permanent C.S.C., made a large purchase from the awaits them just a few steps beyond. Then worked and taught here till his death in 1961. collection as well as adding an impressive Braschi collection in Rome, which addedone again, some might be walking by with Steve Regarded as an outstanding sculptor of dimension of quality. Through the hundred and thirty-six more pieces to the or another staff member, in which case 
collection. Although the original inventory 
religious subjects, his works pave been generosity of Mr. G. David Thompson, the they'll make a slight turn and end up 
included in international exhibitions for Gallery was able to add the work of such glowed with famous of the spending a wholelifetime. 
over fifty years. Among them is his seven­contemporary artists as James Brooks, 
ton "Pit!ta," which was shown at New Alfred Jensen and Karel Appel. THe 
York's Metropolitan Museum of Art for Thompson gift was also a strong incentive to several years and which now rests in Sacred build up the twentieth century collection,
Heart Church on the campus. Mestrovic, which now boasts works by Chagall, Leger 
who the great French Sculptor Rodin once and Picasso (all on extended loan from the 
called "the most talented young sculptor Stern foundation) as well numerous
as 
I've ever seen," was the first living artist to 
American works of significance. Until have a one-man show at both the recent years, the artist has also been able to Metropolitan Museum of Art and London's donate his won work and declare. for tax 
prestigious Victoria and Albert Museum. 
purposes, the market value of his work at 
Mestrovic's sculpture is contemporary, the time. Recent legislation, however,but it bears unmistakable pre-classical and permitting the artist to declare only the cost 
classical influence. His works in stone, wood of his materials has seriously threatened 
and bronze can be seen in numerous future gifts by artists to university art ' 
museums, private collections, churches and galleries. Despite this unfortunate 
parks from Belgrade to Chicago. Honored legislation, some artists continue to donate 
many times for his artistry, Mestrovic their works or else encourage their 
received the Gold Medal for Scuplture from •collector to do so. Artists like Josef Albers, 
the National Institute of Arts and Letters in Alice Baber, Robert Goodnough and Paul 
1956 and the Fine Arts Medal of the Jenkins have all given their works to the 
American Institute of Architects in 1955. Notre Dame Art Gallery. After you get the pieces, though, there are 
His early exhibitions marked Mestrovic 
the logistics of planning, organizing and as a Croation nationalist, but he was a hanging a show. The Vasari exhibition of apatriot rather than a politician. When few years ago, for example, took over fournationalists were threatened with arrest at years in its planning and organization. Also,the outbreak of World War I, Mestrovic fled the value of the works being shown was so to Italy. During the early part of World War high that the insurance company stipulated 
II he was imprisoned in Zageb by the puppet an armed be to
that guard hired stay 
.. 
1(1" • I ~ .t I 0 I ~ I , I " • ' • • • • • . ; 
------------------------------------------------~~--------------------------------~~ 

Thursday, November 8, 1973
the observer 

ND guard faces murder charges 




Uhe WirWjammer 
beginning on September 12 this position. 
HAIR STYLING FOR DISCRIMINATING MEN 
Staff Reporter year. He was suspended tem­Fr. Schlaver noted, "James was porarily last Sunday for a very religious man who was in disciplinary reasons, but was due the process of becoming a lay 
by Tom Kruczek 
Crittendon County, Arkansas 

Avoid the 
Police have reported the arrest of back to work the night of the deacon. All who :knew him spoke 
Sam James, Jr., a Notre Dame shooting. very highly of him as he was the security guard, in connection with James, 43, had never been a guiding light behind one of the area considered a problem in the past. 

Thanksgiving
the alleged shooting of his wife, poverty pr9grams. He was just
Arthur Pears, director of security one of the nicest people you wouldBonnie Mae. The arrest occured at the university stated that he had ever want to know."
late Wednesday afternoon, with 

rush!

James coming to South Bend on recommended to hire James this Fr. Schlaver continued, "If I was 
Thursday to face possible murder year by his parish priest and by prone to speculate, Sam did have a Father David Schlaver C.S.C., fear that he was not able to provide
charges. 

coordinator of volunteer services for his family enough because ofThe shooting occured at 9:30 
AI/. Services by Appointment -No Waiting 
p.m. Tuesday in the James home or theuniversity. Both have known his ill health, and this might have at 50561 Kenilworth Rd. in South 
James for a number of years and played a role in the shooting. He Bend. It came in the aftermath of recommended for employment by added James's job may also have 
CALL NOW
the security police. worsened the situation. his wife. He then fled to Arkansas James formerly was employed Schlaver stated that during the an argument between James and by the Pinkerton Detectives, but two years that he had knownwhere his relatives reside until he 
1637 LincolnWay W. 232-6622 
was apprehended yesterday. was forced to quit because of a James, he had never known him to back ailment that prevented him drink.
James was employed by the Security Force of Notre Dame from doing the large amount of South Bend Sheriff's police chief driving required by the Pinkerton Myers, when contacted at his home 
where he worked the night shift 
Wednesday, to comment on the 




New Jersey Club 
extradition proceedings, stated,


Plans for student 
"You will have to get everything


'b d 
~' from the station tomorrow." 
U •ne 
James and his wife were long-


General Meeting
Party h0 Use

he said. .& ' ~~~; ~~~~~:n~nd residents who had Ed Rahill commented that when 
by David Lee 

concerning
new disciplinary measures and the· 
SMC votes
Staff Reporter 

like began to dominate SLC Plans for a student party house meetings, the discussion of a party 
ue in a state of limbo because the house became a low point on the 
* Club Dinner
Jroposed site, the old red barn on council's priority list. 

to serve

Bulla Road, burned down. However, according to Rahill,
Ed Rahill, a member of the SLC, the SLC has recently been forming 

* Membership
felt that there had been adequate, 
committees to handle various 

UFW lettuce

favorable student response to projects; so the idea of having a having a party house before the party house has been rejuvenated. 
by Peggy Frericks 

* And Other Calendar Plans
fire and the SLC had started plans 
Other proposals relating to the 
Staff Reporter

for one. But when the proposed party situation have also been site for the party house, the red brought to the SLC, Rahill com­
At dinner last night Saint Mary's 

barn, burned down, the SLC was 
mented. But these proposals have students voted to stop the purchase 
Thurs. Nov. 8 7:30 pm
left with the problem of finding a not been adequately discussed yet., and service of lettuce from the 
new location for the party house, 
he added. Teamsters Union and serve only · lettuce picked by the United Farm 
Rm. 303 Engineering Bldg. 
Workers.

Foreign student number 
Of the 1,005 people who ate, 683 


drops from 
Three hundred and nineteen foreign students from 56 countries are enrolled during the current semester. This compares with 344 students from 56 countries last year, 342 students from 57 coun­tries in 1971-72, and 319 from 49 nations in 1970-71. 

Impeachment favored 
<continued from page 2) 
five--28 per cent 

undecided--·-less than one per cent 
Although a substantial majority of the polled student body believe ~ixon was involved some way in 
he Watergate incident, they are 11uch more split on the question of .vhether this involvement was ;erious enough to warrant im­peachment. 
Fifty-four per cent believe the administration still has credibility. 
Yet most students felt the scan­ials of the administration were ietrimental to the workings of our 
~overnment. 

Omicron Delta Epsilon chose .hree students arbitrarily from ~ach page of the preliminary student telephone directory. The survey contacted 120 students in 
the telephone poll 
RESEARCH AIDS FREE CATALOG 
·Thousands of research aids listed -Each available with footnotes and bibliography -Lowest prices are GUARANTEED 
For a free copy of our latest 80­page mail-order catalog, send 50 cents (to cover postage and handling) to 

NAT'L RESEARCH BAN 
420 N. Palm Dr., Bev. Hills, Cal. 90210 You MUS,T., ill!=lude your zip •. ­
code. ,, •·i. .. .;:.._·... l;~ _. ..., ~ 
TEL~PHONE.:. •(2 ) 27,].5439 -, 
• 



last year 
A program of education in engineering is the overwhelming favorite of the 200 graduate students and 119 undergraduates. There are 101 enrolled in this Notre Dame college, compared to 77 in science, 66 in Arts and Letters, and 58 in Business Administration. 
Seventeen of the undergraduates are members of the Freshman Year of Studies Program, 28 are~ sophomores, 37 juniors, 31 seniors, and six are enrolled in a fifth year program. 
The nation of Taiwan leads an others with 45 students at Notre Dame. 
NEW! IN SOUTH BEND! 
OPENING FRI. NOV. 9 






THE ATTIC 
·219-1 /2 N. Michigan 
(ABOVE ROMA 'S) 
HELP US CELEBRATE OUR GRAND ~OPENING FRI. AND SAT. NIGHT! 
LIVE MUSIC GREAT FOODPETE SNAKE 9-1 
MIXED DRINKS 16 oz. beer BY THE PITCHER 
Tequila Sunrise Rum & Coke


50¢!! 
64 oz -4.25 

SEE~~YOU' FR.I:D_AY.. NIGHT!·· 
or about 68 per cent voted. Of those that voted, 637 or approximately 91 percent voted yes while 46 voted 
no. 
Since only United Farm Workers lettuce, which is not as readily avilable as Teamster's lettuce will be used, lettuce will not be served as . often. According to Reb. Thomas Stella, who headed the lettuce boycott effort, "Most of the people I talked toseemed willing to accept the sacrifice that their yes vote entailed, namely, that lettuce will be served less frequently . 
This affirmative vote IS a step in pressuring the Teamster Union and the growers to allow the , worker to choose his own union. 

~ultural Arts Commission 
DANCE &DRAMA SERIES presents 
the 
o'neill 
center's 
in 
OPTIMISM or THE MISADVENTURES OF CANDIDE 
~hursday, November 8th at 8:00p.m. 1n O'Laughlin Auditorium (S.M.C.) Admission $3.00 -*PATRONS FREE* Ti~kets are available~~ the.Stu~ent ~~~-~~ _!.~~-~:~~~ ::<?.~~!~_e, :~.o.r:. §i.t; :-J:Jle: :do6Lw· .0: 
'The finest in
HPC meeting planned 

•

Thursday, November 8, 1973 
the observer I 

The Hall President's Council <HPC) is scheduled to meet on Tuesday, November 27 to discuss nominations for chairman of the council. Elections will be held the following week in an effort to fill the seat vacated by Fred Baranowski last Tuesday night. 
The HPC is made up to twenty hall presidents elected last April. Its purpose is to function as a consultative rather than a legislative body. The Council considers various problems per­tinent to hall and campus life. In addition to coordinating interhall activities, the HPC is also in charge of An Tostal Weekend. 
The general procedure in 
by Howard Wood Staff Reporter 

High school students from 43 states and several provinces of Canada will participate in the seventh annual International Student Leadership Institute <ISLI) at Notre Dame Friday through Sunday. The theme for sessions in the Center for Con­tinuing Education is "Individual and Group Development Through Communication and Awareness." 
Over 100 high school juniors and seniors will join with college and university facilitators during the conference "to examine the design of task orientation and its relation 
to group development."  
The  ISLI  objectives  are  
threefold:  to  increase  par­ 
ticipation  efficiency  with  

leadership roles in task-oriented groups, to discover the impact of oneself and others on group rocesses and learning to plan and manage problem solving and
changeasaleaderormemberofa 
gr~~:· Thomas chambers c.s.c. founded the institute at Notre Dame eight years ago. The in­
stitute has spread nationwide, and now there are centers located at many colleges and universities across the country. 
"The program is designed to increase student responsibilities and involvement," Chambers noted. "It helps recognize potential in people and develop their self-confidence. The program creates better un­derstanding of group process and importance of group com­munication." 
Chambers pointed out that this program has been successful and well received. Last year, Chambers served as Resource Consultant to National Catholic Committee of Boy Scouts of America to give techniques of leadership development. He has also given advice to many college fraternities and soroties. 
The incoming participants will work in small groups, using their own group activities to examine leadership. "The result is not only 
to develop leadership concepts and \ skills but to enable participCJ~t.s to 1 


RESEARCH 
Thousands of Topics 
$2.75 per page Send for your up-to-date, 160-page, mail order catalog. Enclose $1.00 to cover postage {delivery time is 1 to 2 days). 
RESEARCH ASSISTANCE, INC. 1194-l WILSHIRE BLVD., SUITE #2 
lOS ANGElES, CAliF. 90025 (213) 477-8474 or 477-5493 
Our r-esearch material Is sold for r search as~lstance oply. 

•................ , .. ""4-# -· ...... 
electing a chairman is to nominate various hall presidents on the Council. The members then discuss the nominations and agree upon a candidate. 
Baranowski, former president of Holy Cross Hall, was elected in the same manner last semester. Pat McLaughlin, who at the time was president of Pangborn, was elected as the Executive Coordinator. 
At Tuesday's meeting, the members will also discuss the possibility of electing a chairman to serve during an interim period until the presidents become more familiar with the ways of the HPC. 
Baranowski, commenting on the search for a new chairman stated, "Some of the presiets elected last 
-Steaks 

April don't know the system of the HPC yet." "There are though, a 
Cantonese 
Cuisine at 
handful who would be capable of filling the seat," said Baranowski. 
Chicken


Moderate Prices'
The former chairman .gave no indication of any particularly 
Sea Food

favored candidate. When asked about the future elctions, a member of the TPC, 
Quiet atmosphere Chuck Cardillo, president of pleasant surroundingsKeenan Hall, stated, "There are a lot of presidents who haven't been CLOSED around a long time. Nobody really 
MONDAYS

stands out at this point." 
"When Fred was nominated," he continued, "it was taken for granted that he would win. And he 
in town, hove 

did win by a unanimous vote. This 
year, it isn't so clear cut." 
hem stay in South Bend's NEWEST Hotel 



:RogalJfnn"
Over 1DO high school students attend 
316 S. Sl Joseph Reservations: (219) 212·2511
leadership conference this weekend 
WEEKEND SPECIALS AVAILABLE 
become more aware of their own leadership and personal in­teraction style," commented Chaillbers. 
There will be 40 trained facilitators, 15 from Notre Dame, and over 100 high school students at the conference. All the facilitators are college students from the various centers and have been trained by Chambers. The facilitators have successfully completed both their internship and in-1service training program ~hich qualifies them to facilitate the task-oriented groups. 
For dining, visit our 
Colleges and universities that will be represented at the con­
JOLLY KING RESTAURANT 
ference, in addition to Notre 
nd afterwards hit the "in spot" in town
Dame, will include University of Portland, Vancouver College, 
THE PURPLE JESTER DISCOTHEQUE
Stonehill College of North Easton, Mass., and Clark College of 
LOUNGE. 
Dubuque, Ia. 
Dancing under psychedelic lights
John Short, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters, and freshman Darlene Palma are the coordinators for the institute at Notre Dame. 

CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 

THANKSGIVING BUSES 
One roommate NO Apts. 2nd semester. Call Jimbo 283-1552. 
RIDES WANTED


TO CHICAGO 
Ride needed Wheaton , 111.­
DEPART CIRCLE 1:00pm WED. NOV. 21 
West Chicago Nov. 9. Ruthie 4229.
ARRIVE O'HARE 2:30 (CHICAGO TIME) 
Need ride east on turnpike to Ohio this Friday. Please help me. 8573.
RETURN SUNDAY NOV. 25th DEPART O'HARE 8:00pm (CHICAGO TIME) 
Need ride to Pitt game Nov. 8 
or 9. Will share $$and driving
SO D 1 )
ARRIVE CIRCLE 11:30 ( UTH BEN T ME 
Bob 3451. 
Need ride to Bowling Green ,
SIGN-UPS AT TRAVEL BUREAU, 
Ohio for weekend of 17 Nov. Call Rick 233-3945.
-BADIN HALL ALL SALES FINAL 
Need ride to Chicago,
11~~-=============·==================·==~ 
preferably Loop or Western
,.:... 


·····~· 

Town & Country Hours: Mon-Thurs: 12-9 Shopping Center Fri: 11-9 (Mini Mall) Sat: 10-6 
' ' ' f

f>' I •~hone 2ss-2n2 1 -I & \ t I ~ I I I l .• f '
, Sun1' 11-S, .", • ", ! ", : 
.. . .
• • • • ' t I 
-.. -........ . 
. ..... -~ 

.·.A.r.-·~-_...... ., ................. . 
NOTICES 
Will do typing: term papers, manuscripts etc. Call 233-6909. 
Morrisse~ Loan Fund can loan up to $150 at 1per cent interest, 1 day waiting period. Basement of La Fortune. 11:15­
12:15 Mon.-Fri. 
Openings now availble for Part-time hosteses, cashiers, 
+ 
cocktail waitresses. Apply in person avytime at Boars Head Restaurant S2885 US 31 

N. 
South Bend. 



TRAVEL! TAke advantage of student rates. Talk Talk to the specailists-BOAC. Group inquiries welcome. Call Clark 234-2098 after 7 pm. 
SKI THE FRENCH ALPS, JAN.3-11. DEPOSITS ARE STILL BEING TAKEN. CALL 6716 FOR FURTHER IN­FORMATION. 
come on down to pandoras for those heap big bargains, every day. used +new books bought 
+ sold also art prints, pipes and rollin papers, magazines + newspapers at 602 N. st louis tom 10 to 7. 
GOOD TIX FOR THE NOV. 11 TODD RUDGREN CONCERT AT MORRIS CIVIC AND NOV. 15 +16PERFORMANCES OF GODSPELL ARE NOW AVAILBLE AT THE SUUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE, 2nd FLOOR LAFORTUNE 11:30-5 DAILY. 
Logan volunteers: Brookfild zoo trip this Sat. Everyone needed come at 9 am to Logan. 
Typing done: theses, papers. etc. Fast. Call Gloria 234-9765. 
Ski Aspen Jan.5-12. Lodging and lifts $120. Deposit $20 by 
Nov. 10. Call 6575 or 1628. 
LOST AND FOUND 

Lost ladies diamond ringlast weekend. Great sentimental value. Large reward. Call 283­7175. 
Lost girls tinted wire rimmed glasses in brown case agter 
Navy game. Call 5114. 
Lost carab bracelet possibly at concert. Reward 6916. 
Found tie and umbrella seperately. To idntify call Pat 1015. 
Lost wet of 3 keys 2 weeks ago. Call 8604. 
To Mrs. Kloos the Younger:· Hi to the Luiwana Lady from all · '. · _the ail·st!!f. · Aloha! • • • • • .' • suburbs. Can leave Friday agter 4. Call Rosie 6954. 
FOR RENT 

Rooms $40 Month. Near. 233­1329. 
All  private  3  rooms  up  for  
married graduate student.  All  
utilities.  Near Memorial.  No  

rent in return for aiding parents to lift lightweight son and daughter to and from wheelchairs. 232-9128. 
FOR SALE 

MEERSCHAUM PIPES! Exceptional values, per· sonalized service. Catalog. PMP Co. Box 444 Gaithers burg, Md. 20760. 
Turquoise jewelry from the Southwest-great for unique xmas gifts. Call8373or drop by 209 Pangborn. 
'66 Mustang , 4 speed $300 or beest offer. Nick 1670. 
12 string Harmony. Good condilion. $95 or best offer. 8573. 
1969 Opel Kadett. 3261. 
WARM YOUR COCKLES with Dean Swift fancy Sniffing Snuff. Send name, etc. for free samples. Dean Swift Ltd. Box 
2009 San Francisco, Ca. 94126. 
2 ! $4.50' T I X FOR Crosby­Nash concert. Good seats. Will deliver. $~. Casey 232-9034.­After 7. 
Found green contact lens in case. Between B-P and Farley. To idntify call 1264. 
Happy Birthday Kathy-not too original but what can I say? ... ~ tt~e/~ g?<Jd, fia'fi 'fi>.J.~:.:•. ".:'~ '/ 
· i e r •.,. •.. • .*.•.• •...
.. . 


---~----~ 
Thursday, November 8, 1973
3 the observer 





Eighth-rated MSP" hosts No.2 ND 
· (1490) at 7:30p.m.). Next season, take_s odd ?o~nces. . . by John Fmeran the Spartans huve promised to Shl_l, S~mth s team ~nows very .· If you haven't seen Michigan open a modern ice facility, and we_ll ~t wtll not be playt~g th~ old .Hate's archaic Ice Arena, you are Smith, for one will not be sad bml~mg. Rather, the Insh wtll ~e 
really not missing anything. The seeing the old building deserted. playt~g a very tough Spartam 
,;eats are narrow, the lights are "I think I can safely say I am not sq~a . · . . . "..im, and the plexiglass around the going to be unhappy to be playing t Mt~?tgan_Sttatetts a vehryKqm~k 
· d · · t t · th , s 'th 'd eam, assts an coac evm
:>oar s ts non-exts en . our last senes ere, nn sat · H . d "Th 'll t k ad 
Lefty Smith and the Fighting "It is a tough rink to play in. "It is oene sat · e~ a e ­1rish hockey squad will be visiting shorter than normal and it seems a vantage of your m~stakes, and the ancient landmark in East lot wider. The lighting is dim, and when they do, they re tough to 
'~ansing for the last time tomorrow the screen around the boards gives be.~ih . f' t r . . . . 
1 1

:1ight and Saturday evening (both you unusual bounces. It could be a ~-tr ttrs ~~~s stmt art~n P ~Y 
.!ames broadcast over WNDU problem for us the way the puck to 0';lr Irs me, . oene con _mue · 
• "It ts good breakmg out of 1ts own
vlC Dorr ::;:::::::;:::::::::;:::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::i:i:i:i:::::i:::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;: end.'' Sophomore center Steve Colp heads that first unit and is also leading the Spartans in scoring
The Irish Eye 
with one goal and five assists. Hoene, who saw last. Saturday's MSU victory, thinks Colp is "as

whole new ball game good as any center we'll face this
.::=====:;:===============:::::=:=:=:::=:::::::::A 
season."
What a difference four years can make. 
"Colp is a good skater, has a

Four years ago the Texas Longhorns were the nation's top-ranked 
good shot, and is a good

··ollege football team, with Notre Dame second and Ohio State's 
playmaker," Hoene said. "And

Buckeyes rated third.
... most important, he'll win the
Four years ago Terry Shields, a Pittsburgh native, was a Notre Dame 
important faceoffs when they are

.-enior and was sports editor of The Observer. And four years ago Ara needed."
:>arseghian was preparing his undefeated Fighting Irish football team for 
The Spartans' second line of Tom 

t November home game with the enigmatic Pitt Panthers. 
Ross at center between John

Shields with ' t.h · n1 which would befit any Pittsburgh resident, 
Sturges (left wing) and Brendon

, en ustas . . th I' h H k II th
attacked the Notre Dame--Pttt game wt re IS . e new we e many 
Moroney is both a defensive and

:>trengths and few weaknesses of the Irish gridders, and he knew fairly 
physical one. The trio is, however, 

well the many weaknesses and few strengths of coach Carl dePasqua's 
capable of offensive flashes of

Panthers. 
excellence.

"For the past six years," he mentioned, two nights _before ~he ~all 
"Ross is a quick center," Hoene 

~ame, "every Pitt football guide has had some catchy httle saymg hke 

said. "Sturges and Moroney are 

Goalie Mark Kronholm and the rest of thelrish hockey team will be
'This is the year the Panther begins to growl.' This year the phrase was 
also quick breaking off their wings. travelling to East Lansing this weekend to take on the Spartans .
'The Pitt Panther is back.' 
The line could give us heavy 

DeLorenzi scored the two goals in front of goalie Mark Kronholm.
"Of course " he continued "every knowledgeable fan would chuckle pressure." 
the Irish 2-2 tie Saturday night. The senior netminder was brilliant:1uietly to hin;self while reading those phrases ... but now the i~possible 
The third line also presents 
in both Tech contests and will!las happened. Six weeks into the season and lo and behold the mfamous With Ian Williams still sitting out 

problems. "Darl Bolton (center), 
carry a 2.77 goals against averagePitt Panthers are rated Number One in the East. Something has to be his four-game league suspension,

Dennis Olmstead (left wing) and 
into tomorrow's game.

wrong somewhere." . . freshman Brian Walsh will play
Michael Chaurest are potentially 
"Michigan State is one of the top Something was wrong, all right, but the Panther_s made the mt~tak~ m right wing on the Pat Conroy line. 

good hockey players," Hoene said. 
five clubs in the WCHA," Smiththe way they approached Week Six. They were htghly touted gomg mto Both players tallied twice in the

"Although the line is not 
concluded. "We recognize we'llthat weekend's game with Syracuse, but the Panthers were shallacked by opening 8-4 win, while linemate

cohesive and consistent yet, it'll 
have a tough series against them.

the Orangemen and then crept into Notre Dame Stadium with their tails Eddie Bumbacco, a consensus All­
kill you if taken for granted." 
"Anytime you play them,between their legs. America selection last season,

On defense, both Smith and 

especially with the strong Notre"Possibly," chortled Shields, "a combination of things led to the assisted three times.
Hoene believe the player to watch 
Dame-Michigan State rivalry, youSyracuse debacle. The Orangemen are definitely an improving ball club, is Norm Barnes, a 6-1, 190 lb. The defensive pairings will be can expect a tough weekend:"md maybe,just maybe, the Panthers were cocky enough to overlook a_n junior. "Barnes is an excellent seniors Steve Curry and Bill Michigan State is indeed aJpponent and envision what an upset over Notre Dame would do to thetr defenseman," the Irish head coach Nyrop, another All-American last powerful sextet, and the Irish knowc;tature. 

said. year, and Les Larson with Pat they must come up with an equally"Unfortuna!:ely," concluded the senior sports scribe, "Pitt is not a good "Barnes is a good,big player who Novitzki. Freshman Jack powerful performance to gainmough team to overlook even Slippery Rock. They simply can't look past skates well," Hoene echoed. "He Brownschilde, who along with momentum for their series with1 team like Syracuse and hope to win." 
takes charge much like Jim Nyrop was impressive last Wisconsin at home next weekend.
Four years later, Terry Shields is again following the progress of an Nahrgang of Michigan Tech does. weekend, will be the fifth man. 
And if Notre Dame plays the Ice mbeaten Notre Dame football team--but his perch this year is not the "The other defensemen, Novitzki and Mike Tardani, last Arena rather than the team inside.Jress box atop Notre Dame Stadium but a residence in the Steel City. 

however, lack quickness," Hoene season's penalty-killing heroes, it, it could be a long weekend for~nd this year, as Irish coach Ara Parseghian prepares his fifth-_rank~d added. "They can be beaten with will see similar action in East Lefty Smith's sextet in Eastclub for Saturday's tussle with the upstart Panthers, Terry Shtelds ts speed and heavy forechecking." Lansing, trying to keep the puck in Lansing.
viewing ND's opponent with much more respect than in 1970. 
Michigan State's colorful coach,

"Saturday's game," he said, "will probably be the game of the year for 
Amo Bessone, almost echoed

=>itt. It's going to be a sellout (the last tickets were snatched up late 
Hoene's words when he said, "The 

ruesday afternoon), and the radio and TV stations have been giving it a 
Irish have speed to burn, and they

'>ig buildup. 
turn mistakes into goals."

"There hasn't been much in the papers yet, but they've all been busy 
Hopefully, the Irish can use their 

Ni th the Steelers and the Redskins. I'm looking for a big buildup to start 
speed and forechecking to dent the 

·.omorrow in the newspapers." 



OBSERUER
Spartan net. MSU lost its top

And there's good reason for the furor Saturday's game is stirring up in 
goalie, freshman sensation Gerry 

=>ittsburgh. The 1973 Panthers aren't the creampuff team Notre Dame 
Carr, last weekend with a severely 

1as devoured in past seasons. They are currently 5-2-1, and most recently slashed forearm. 
1ave defeated Navy (22-17)nand Syracuse. And against Syracu~e, coach 
SPORTS
Still, the Spartans have two 

Johnny Majors' club gained over 500 yards of total offense--~1th more 
capable veterans in seniors Ron 

han 200 of those yards being collected by freshman sensation Tony 
Clark and Tom Bowen. Irish fans 

)orsett. 
will remember Clark was the 

"Their strength is Dorsett and <QB Bill> Daniels," said Shields. 
nation's leading goaltender last 

'Those two are both big play guys and Dorsett just might be a better ~ack 
January until the Spartans came to 

han A.D. Davis. Daniels is improving from game to game, and I beheve 
ND secondinhockeypolls
South Bend. The Irish sent him 

·1e has more total offense thanClements.Their offensive line is good, too," 
and the then nation's number one 

1e continued. "All in all they're a pretty decent team." . The Irish series at Michigan week after 6-1 and 4-3 victories
team home with 8-5 and 13-5losses. 

But even a decent team is worthless without a coach to match, and m State ''lis weekend will be the only over Western Ontario.
However, the danger of the 

wash, vivacious Johnny Majors the Panthers have such a_ coach this meetin~; between teams ranked in
Spartans lies in their ability to 
Defending NCAA champion;eason. Majors brought in droves of first-year ~thl~tes durmg the l~st college hockey's top ten.

sustain game momentum. Notre 
Wisconsin remained first with nine ·ecruiting season, eased the Panthers out of a cnpphng _agreement With 

Dame visited East Lansing last 

Notre Dame remains second in out of the first ten place votes and=>enn State and West Virginia and, significantly, has Pittsburgh on the 
February and lost the first game 

the polls after returning from 99 out of points. Seven of the other ;erge of its first winning season since 1963. One more win this year will 10-2 before winning the second, 6-5, Michigan Tech with an 8-4 victory, nine ranked teams appear at Notrelinch that winning season. 
on Larry Israelson's late-third 

and a 2-2-tie. The Spartans, Dame this season in the person of"Majors is a Southerner," said Shields, "an~ he'~ just l,ike an ol,d period goal. moved from tenth to eighth this Wisconsin, Michigan Tech, St.
)outhern psychologist. He has a weekly TV show JUSt hke Ara s, and ~e s 
Notre Dame expects to go with 
Louis, Boston College, Michigan>een uf:ing his show to give this game a real big build-up. _He's been domg the same lineups as last week at Badin pep rally State, Harvard, and Denver.

1 lot of talking, but he's a real rah-rah and he has the Pitt Student body 
Michigan Tech. Ironically,Jsyched. . . Israelson, who scored his first 
"The Pitt crowd will be pretty loud for thts game, sure. And If we slated for nine
collegiate hat trick against the The top ten, records and
·eceive the kickoff turn the ball over early, and give them a cheap score, Huskies last Friday, is the only Badin Hall will sponsor a Pitt­points:Ne could be in tro~ble. This isn't," he warned, "the same kind of Pitt injured player, sustaining a broken sburgh pep rally tonight honoring 1 (Wisconsin (4-0) ..... , .... 99 . eam we've bea_ten in past years." . . index finger on Saturday . thz senior members of this yar's 
2-Notre Dame (1-0-1) ...... 92

Indeed it isn't. Johnny Majors, Tony Dorsett, and Btll Damels have Irish football team. The event will 
"The finger bothers Larry when 
3-Cornell (0~) ............. 66

;liven the Panthers a shot in the arm which may well erase many of the take place at 9 p.m. on the Badin
he shoots and takes a pass," Smith 
4-Michigan Tech. (2-1-1) ... 62~npleasant memories of recent years. said. "But he'll play." porch, and will feature guest 

5-st.ILouis (2·0) .. .. . . ... 51

But even though a lot has happened to Pittsburgh's football fortunes in speakers Drew Mahalic, Pete
This means that senior left wing 
6-Boston U (0-0) .. .. .. .. 47·our years' time, certain things have remained unchanged. Pi~t's ~ecord, Israelson will take his normal turn Demmerle, Steve Sylvester, i-Boston College (0~) . . . 41·or instance. The Panthers were 5-2 before they played the Insh m 1970, Luther Bradley, and noted emcee

on the ice with center Ric Shafer 
8-(tie) Harvard (0~) . . . . 25and they're 5-2-1 now. And Notre Dame? The Irish were 7-o before the '70 Tom Parise. Offensive backfield

and Ray DeLorenzi. Last 
Michigan State (2·0) 25meeting with Pitt, and they're 7-o now. · ' • · · coach Tom Pagna may also 1,>~t in

weekend, converted -defenseman 
10-Denvcr (H) ............ 23

And just for the record, Notre Dame won that 1970 encounter, 46-14. , Schafer played, brilliantly while an appearance. 




