
On The Inside 
Campus security--pt. 2 ...page 5 
Off-campus food ...page 6 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VIll, No. 15 Tuesday, September 25, 1973 

Chi<;holm describes 
Watergate affair 
~blessing in disguiseI 
by Jeannt> Murphy Staff Reporter 
"Americans do not recognize that Watergate is a blessing in disguise," exclaimed Congresswoman Shirley Chisholm as she ad­dressed a full house in Washington Hall last night. 
Mrs. Chisholm, Democrat from Brooklyn, expressed the need for all Americans to become involved in politics. She blamed today's political, economic and social problems. on the apathy and gullibility of Americans; addmg that it was the apathy of the people which brought the president and the vice president to office. 
"Our priorities are mixed up, out of control, and you people sit back and don't ask questions and study patterns of legislature. You only become excited in participatory politics jumping on someone's band wagon." Chisholm con­tinues, "Americans have created the decadence and problems which plague their land them­selves because of their passivity in politics." 
Mrs. Chisholm spoke about the state of affairs and Watergate calling the scandal "a blessing in disguise" because it revealed to America a corrupt subverting process of democracy. As a result of Watergate, she called for political reformation executed by the people of America. "People have to participate in elections and look at the candidates and issues," she stated. 
Government Interests 
The root of today's economic disaster, ac­cording to Congresswoman Chisholm, is in the unique privileged relationship between the nation's corporate interests and the government. 
This alliance of business and government is the source of unemployment, inflation, the world monetary crisis, and the high cost o~ ~ivin~, according to Chisholm. The cost of hvmg m America has coubled during the previous ad­ministration, she claimed. 
"There is little sign that this aloof ad­ministration has concern over the employment situation "she asserted. "It shows disregard for the cons~mer, the worker and the unemployed." 
She remarked that there is a clear indication that the administration does not care for human beings. After vetoeing important acts, such as the Minimum Wage Bill which would have set a weekly salary at aminimum of $88, she feels that the administration is involved with corporate interests and not the interests of the people. 
Unlike the present administration, Mrs. Chisholm commented that she spoke here as a "people's politician" rather than a "professional politician." She tries to give more concern to the people of the country than to business interests. But she offered herself as an alternative to the present situation when she ran for the presidency in 1972 and was not elected. S~e commented that it would be too much at this time for this nation to grasp having a woman prresident, nevertheless black. 
"Our president received a mandate, he told us," she jested. "If he received the mandate, then he is fulfilling those concerns. We get what we deserve," she continued. 
Mrs. Chisholm expressed a disappointment in the vetoeing of the Minimum Wage Bill which she worked very closely on. The Bill was not passed, according to Congress, because of i~­flation. She strongly objected to this reason m lieu of the fact that Congressmen were at­tempting to raise their salaries to $52,000 a year. 
Challenge to Youth 
"Young people the challenge is here. You have the vote, now have the courage, audacity, stamina and nerves," she explained. She feeels that the change this land will experience will come from the youth today. We need more "boat-rockers" to change the system, she am 
hour has come in America when we can no longer be passive ... We need the courage of our con­victions." 
claimed. "What we need is new breed of women 
moving out of local precincts and moving up." 
After serving three terms on the New York 
state Legislature and presently attending her 
third term in Congress, Mrs. Chisholm called for 
a need for more women in the legislature 
process. There are problems of education, 
family problems and health which need the 
attention of women, she explained. 
Equality for All 
"It is true 'my fellow Americans' that few 
people were born with brass spoons in their 
mouths," she said when she spoke about the 
problems of racism today. "Blacks cannot pull 
themselves up by their bootstraps because they 
came to American with a predestined role. They 
never had the passport to society with their black 
skin. There is no other group in this country that 
has withstood the humiliation that the blacks 
have," she affirmed. 
The great enemy of America, in the eyes of 
Congresswoman Chisholm is racism. "I am not 
here to chit-ehat with you, nor am I here to give a 
beautiful flowering Spee<'h. The hour is late. The 
Republic is in deep trouble. All Americans want 
is the ability to have the same opportunities as 
others, regardless of race, creed or color," she 
said. 
In conclusion, she explained that Americans 
cannot sweep their problems under a rug and 
watch them disappear. They must become 
active in politics and fight for justice. 
"The hour has come in America when we 
people can no longer sit back on our rears and be 
passive, complacent recipients of whatever 
morals this nation expounds. We need courage 
of our convictions so we can fight for justice." 
While in the Congress, Mrs. Chisholm has 
served on the Educationand Labor Committee 
inwhich she is the only educator. For the past 
five months, she has acted "as a catalyst" in 
bringing together women's groups, labor groups 
and other lobbying groups to pass the Minimum 
Wage Bill. 
When asked if she had intentions of running for 
the presidency in 1976, she unhesitatingly an­
swered in the negative. She claimed that_ she 
does not have the funds for another campaign. 
(continued on page 7) 
•



SLC to rev1ew 
1 
~

latest revisions of 
1 
Student Manual l 1 l
Parties the topic again , 
' 
by Fred Graver Staff Reporter 
Another alternative set of revisions and clarifications to the original guidelines for the Student Manual was presented to the Student Life Council by Dr. Phillip Faccenda at Monday afternoon's SLC meeting. 
The items included a new preamble; clarifications of guidelines for parties heldby individuals and small groups in living quarters, and larger group gatherings; definitions of the role of the hall staff; and clarification of the nature of co-operation between the hall staff and the Student Affairs office. 
These additions will be added onto the revision proposed by Dennis Etienne at the meeting last Wednesday. Etienne, Dr. Ackerman, and Prof. Roos will meet today togo over rough spots in the additions so that the Council will have a better view of the entire package when they meet again Wednesday. 
The main discussions during the meeting centered on guidelines regarding section parties, and what some members of the Council felt was a negative attitude that was prevailing towards parties and recreational activities of any kind. 
The new additions state that "large group gatherings at which alcohol is consumed include all situations in which the theme of gathering and the number of participants removes it from the individual or roommate-suitemate gathering." Dr. Faccenda stated that this was a n attempt to "tie down the (adjoining rooms> rule in H-Man's draft." 
The main controversy here lies in what Father Flanagan, Assistant Vice-President of Student Afaairs, called "inequities in facilities." Some halls have adequate facilities for section parties. Others do not, and must hold their section parties in the hallways. This causes problems, as the hallway becomes im­passable. Dr. Faccenda described the discussion of the controversy by saying, "We want something ap­
propriate for the place that does not affect others not participating." 
The solution was found in relying mainly on the in­dividual rector's discretion "and relying on the fact that there is no rector that cannot be reached and talked to," said Dennis Etienne. 
The "negative attitude" prevalent in the guidelines was discussed early in the meeting. Prof. Julian Pleasants remarked that guidelines "imply that study has some sort of veto over social life. Study has become sacred, the right to which has become paramount over social activity." 
Ed Rahill echoed the sentiment when he said, "there is a negative attitude in the council. No en­couragement has been given to providing workable alternatives. These rules are alienating the student body." . 
Dr. Ackerman answered by saying that he agreed, and feels the new preamble reflects that spirit. The new preamble stresses the educative influence of social interaction where alcohol is properly used. 
Dr. Faccenda re-iterated the reason for the guidelines by citing the risk the University is taking in condoning the use of alcohol on the premises in a state where alcohol is illegal. He said the University is the only school in the state that publicly allows drinking in the dorms. 
The Student Life Council will meet again at 4:30 on 
~dnesday. 
the observer Tuesday, September 25, 1973 


world briefs 
Washington -E. Howard Hunt Jr., spy novelist, ex CIA agent and admitted Watergate conspirator, was expected to testify against one of his former White Houue boses today as the televise Senate Watergate hearings resume aver a seven-week recess. 
Washington-An attorney for Vice President Spiro T. Agnew says he will ask a federal court this week to halt the investigatio of Agnew in connection with alleged Maryland kickbacks. 
Washington-House Speaker Carl Albert goes on nationwide radio to brand President Nixon's charges of congressional inaction "feeble attempts to disguise the administration's own glaring failures." 
Drtroit-The assembly lines at Chrysler Corp. began to roll once again today as tte shortest national strike in the history of the United -AutoWorkers came to an end. 
!\1oscow -Soviet scientists says at least one of four unmanned Russian spacecraft speeding toward Mars will attempt to land on the planet in March. 
Buenos Aires -Juan Domingo Peron, once a symbol of strongman rule in South America, piles up an unbeatable lead to regain the Argentine presidency he lost in a military coup 18 years ago. 
Santiago-Powerful bomb explodes in fashionable area of Santiago near the U.S. Consulate, but there were no reports of injuries or damages. Army troops keep up search for snipers loyal to President Salvador Allende, who died in a Sept. II military coup that toppled his Marxist government. 
an campus taday 
3:00 and 7:30 pm -Lecture, Transcendental Medlh•tlon, Library Aud. 
4:30 pm -Lecture, Experimental Manipulation of Bug Plankton Communities, Dr. Leo Montroy, Galvin Life Science Bldg 
6:30pm· Meeting. Flying Irish Club, Aerospace Bldg, Room 
12 
7:00pm-Lecture, Business-Economics Dept., Carroll Hall, Made leva 


at nd-smc 
By United Press International 
Hundreds of gasoline station 

operators kept their pumps 
locked Monday to protest Phase 
IV gasoline price guidelines. 
Their national leaders threat­
ened even more severe shut­
downs which would put "the 
public on horseback" if the 
government does not grant 
relief.
The Cost of Living Council, 

under pressure from President 
Nixon for a speedy decision, 
prepared to review the gas
guidelines and consider whether 
to increase the price levels. 
A meeting of representatives 

of retail gasoline associations in 
41 states stopped short Sunday 
of endorsing a national protest 
but decided not to oppose local 
action. 
"If immediate action is not 

taken, the government's restric­
tions on us may result in a 20th 
century version of the Boston 
Tea Party," said Charles 
Binsted, president of the 
National Congress of Petroleum 
Retailers. "The public may be 
on horseback." 
A leader of the boycott movement in Northern Califor­nia, where the protest was in its fourth day following a weekend of estimated 50 per cent participation, said service station operators were getting pressure from major oil compa­nies to resume sales. The California protest was sche­duled to end after Monday night. 
The protest centered on Phase IV rules allowed wholes­alers to increase prices but keeping retailers at January levels. 
John T. Dunlop, the Cost of Living Council director, said last week his council would review of the situation. Mon­day, a spokesman for President Nixon said he had instructed the council to speed up this process. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semestet" except vacations by the stuoents of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S8 per semester (Sl.C per year I from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana .C6556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dam•, Ind. 
46556. 



Senate votes to increase aid to federal school lunch program 
WASHINGTON (UP!) -The Senate Monday approved a 50 per cent increase in federal aid to the school lunch program with provision for even more money if food costs keep increasing. 
The measure was rushed through as emergency legisla­tion to help schools, some of which have been forced to cut the quantity or quality of their meals or even drop them. The vote was 81-4. 
Voting against the bill were Wallace F. Bennett,· R-Utah, Carl T. Curtis, R-Neb., Paul Fannin, R-Ariz., and Barry M. Goldwater, R-Ariz. 
The bill exceeds the adminis­tration budget request of $1.5 million by $300 million, and could face a veto. 
The House has passed a bill to raise federal aid to the school lunch program 25 per cent. A compromise measure will have to be worked out. 

The Senate bill would raise from 8 to 12 cents the federal contribution for each student participating in the school lunch program; from 40 to 45 cents for needy children who get free lunches; and from 30 to 35 cents for those who get reduced-rate lunches. 
The measure also would provide 8 cents per pupil in the school breakfast program plus an additional 15 cents for the reduced-price breakfasts. 
Sen. Hubert H. Humphrey, D­Minn., proposed raising the per­pupil contribution from the 10 cents approved by the House and the Senate Agriculture Committee, and his amendment was approved 52 to 34. 
Sen. James B. Allen, D-Ala., handling the bill, said after the vote, "I hope the bill can be saved in conference and can be made acceptable to the Presi­dent. 
The Senate also approved, 86 to 2, an escalator clause to permit an annual increase or decrease in federal aid to 
reflect the labor of meals.  cost prepa in food and ring school  
By voice adopted a amendment  vote, the Senate third Humphrey to increase from  

$6,300 to $7,200 the family income level under which children can get reduced-price meals. Families making less than $4,200 can get free meals. 
The bill carries $212.5 million in addi tiona! funds for school lunches and breakfasts; $88 million for the special milk program, including free milk for all who qualify for free lunches; and $20 million for the special supplemental food pro­gram for women, infants and children in fiscal 1974, and $40 million in fiscal 1975. 
Gas stations protest price guidelines 


Participate 
in Student Government! 
fill out application for university iudical positions. 3rd. floor LaFortune 
Members of the Central a wait-and-see attitude. Indiana Gasoline Dealers As-In Baltimore, where the sociation indicated they may protest was to last indefinitely, stay closed until Phase IV is :bout 50 per cent of the stations lifted. were closed. 
The American Automobile In Auburn, N.Y., a spokes-Association in Washington es-men for gasoline dealers said timated 36 per cent of the all major brand stations were area's stations were shut down, closed and 65 Mobil stations in 22 per cent were ignoring the Syracuse voted for a one-day boycott and the rest had taken boycott.
...--.::_____________...:____________, 
WHAT'S GOD DOING TQDA Y? come and see! ! 
The Catholic Charismatic Renewal 
Special Explanation Session -This Thursday, Sept. 27, 7:30 pm, Butler Bldg -behind Holy Cross Hall ( N'D) 
Mass -Zahm Hall Chapel, Tuesday through 
Friday -5: 15 pm 
Prayer Meetings-Holy Cross Hall (ND), Every 
Thursday 8: 30 -10:00 pm 
All Are Welcome! 

SENIOR aASS TRIP 
OPIH TO ALL ND-SMC STUDENTS 
3 DAYS 
3 NIGHTS 
In fabulous MIAMI BEACHI 
for NO-Miami football game ONLY $160 

NOV. 29--DEC. 2 
Non refundable deposit due SEPT. 28 
deposits colleded at NO travel bureau QUESTIONS? CALL JERRY 232-3876 
Tuesday, September 25, 1973 the observer 




Kissinger wcnts real peace beyond armistice 
foreign ministers and am­American foreign policy. This superpower plan to dominate the United Nations and its work and 
bassadors for the occasion. attitude will guide our work in this world, in reference to the growing many of the delegates and 
by Bruce W. Nunn "My country seeks true peace, organization." Kissinger also detente between Washington and ministers werecarefully watching 
United Nations UPI not simply an armistice. We strive pledged to strengthen relations the Kremlin. his speech as a guide toward his 
for a world in which the rule of law with the Soviet Union and China, to "Relaxation of tensions is future policies. 
Henry A. Kissinger, making his governs, and fundamental human bolster the uncertain peace in justified by some as merely a However, he told the assembly: first public appearance as rights and the birthright of all. Indochina, and to promote con­tactical interlude before renewed "We will never abandon our allies Secretary of State, said Monday "Beyond the bilateral ciliation in European self­struggle," he said. and friends. We will work for the United States seeks not merely diplomacy, the pragmatic determination. Other goals were "Others suspect the emergence peace through the United Nations an armistice among the super­agreements and the dramatic economic development and human of a two-power condominium. And as well as through bilateral powers, but a true peace anchored steps of recent years, we envisage digntity in Mrica and partnership as tension between the two original relationships. in the United Nations' a comprehensive, institutionalized in the Western Hemisphere. blocs has eased, a third grouping "Despite our diappointments, "Parliament of Man." peace--a peace which this Wearing a dark blue suit and increaisngly assumes eritics of a my country remains committed to 
"The United States has made its organization is uniquely situated white shirt for his maiden speech bloc of its own--the alignment of the goal of a world community. We choice," Kissinger said in a 25 to foster and to anchor in the since assuming office two days the non-aligned." will continue to work in this minute address to the U.N. hearts of men," Kissinger said. ago, Kissinger told the mem­Kissinger in the past has been Parliament of Man to make it a General Assembly, packed with "This will be the spirit of bership not to suspect any less than enthusiastic about the reality." 
Entry fm is $2.00 
Observer vvill sponser chess tournament this W'eekend 
by Denny McLean 
game will not be timed by an of­by only the Observer and Student 
ficial chess clock, all players must Government. 
Staff Reporter 
complete 3 moves within one hour. Not only will these prizes be Cash prizes and trophies will be awarded, but a great deal of im­awarded to the top four finishers. portance wil be attached to the top The chess champ of Notre Dame The champion will receive 40 per student winners in forming the will be determined this weekend at cent of the money collected from Notre Dame Chess Team. The a chess tournament sponsored by . the entrance fee, with 25 per cent, team will compete in several chess the Observer. 10 percent and 5 percent going meets here aginst such schools as The tournament is open to respectively to the second, third Indiana, Purdue, Ball Etate, and anyone belonging to the ND-SMC and fourth place finishers. Prizes Case Western. They will also play community and an entrance fee of will be disbursed by the Chess in the Midwstern Collegiate Chess 
$2.00 is required. Registrations are Club, with the trophies being given Tournament. being accepted at the Observer office in LaFortune between 1:00 and 4:00 Monday through 
Thursday. 
Looking for a ride
The first round will commence Friday at seven o'clock. Sub­sequent rounds' will be played on .. Chess contestants matching wits at the Observer Tourney starting Saturday at 10, 2 and 7 o'clock with Friday. 

to Purdue?
the .final round to take place be noted and seeded according to Participants are required toSunday at one. All games will be ability. Stronger players will be bring their own chess boards asplayed in LaFortune basement. 
matched against weaker players in there are not enough to facilitate 
rent a Pinto for $5 a day
First round pairings will be the first round. Play will proceed all players. In addition, those whoavailable in Friday's Observer. 
according to the five game Swiss have a chess time clock are askedStudent's with USCF ratings wll 
and 5' a mile from Jordan Ford
system. to bring that. Although every 
-LOIS TRANTER 259-1981
Shuttle bus makes minor route change 
-RENTAL MANAGER CRAIG KAPSON 259-1981
by Joe Laflare small charge of 10 cents. of service. You may call 6392 or 
-VICE PRESIDENT
Staff Reporter Mr. Poley would like to hear drop in at Room 320 Ad­from the students about the quality ministration Building.
The shuttle-bus service has not changed much from last year. With the exception of a minor route change on late buses, it i virtually the same. The schedule is as follows: 
Mon. -Thurs: 7:40 a.m. -12:30 
a.m. 
Fri: 7:40a.m.-2:30a.m. 
Sat: 12:00 p.m. -2:30 a.m. 
Sun: 12:00 p.m.-12:30 a.m. 
THE
All buses leave St. Mary's every 
hour on the hour and on the If.! 
hour; they leave from N.D. every 
15 min. later. 
"The route change was im­



WJ:NERY 
plemented primarily because of 
security problems," according to 
2426 LINCOLN WAY WEST-MISHAWAKA, INDIANA
Mr. Timothy Poley, Asst. to the 
Coordinator of Analytical Studies. TELEPHONE ~ 
After 6: p.m. the East Gate is 
closed and the buses must enter INDIANA ·s LARGEST WINE SHOP 
and exit through the Main Gate. 
DOES HAVE CHEESE I 
From there, they proceed up Notre 
Dame Ave., across Angela Blvd., 
English Stilton Camembert
and down U.S. 31. "The amount of 
Port Salut Gouurmandise
service provided is the same, 
although it may take a little Imported Swiss Bourson 
longer," said Po~y. Teh buses Seta Tilsit 
still stop at aU points on campus. Brie Plus Many More 
THEY ALL STOP AT THE Grotto, 
discount on cheeses until Oct. with ID
the library circle, and the bus shelter, no matter what the time. "If the student who does not have 
JOHN O'HANLON '65
a back-to-back class would ride the 
local bus and not the express, it 
would certainly speed service up," BANK AMERICARD 
said Poley. 

MASTERCHARGE
On Friday and Saturday nights, a second bus is added and so service from each campus is every 15 min. There are also special morning buses on home football Satur•~· After 6:00·p:m. and dn" weekends, there still remains a 


THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Jerry Lutkus Dan Barrett
Editor-in-Chief Executive E'ditor 
NEWS: 283-1715 EDITORIALS: 283-8661 John Kloos BUSINESS: 283-7471 
Advertising Manager 

Tuesday, September 25, 1973 
'IYIRT AMERICAN FAMILY HAS A RIGHT TO A HOus· KE THIS AND I'M GOING TO SEI 

Quickly, Some Rules 
Time is beginning to run out on the SLC. Despite the fact that they are meeting twice a week in an e'fort to iron out the new parties regulations, time is getting short. 
The students have been remarkably patient in waiting for the SLC to produce the new guidelines, yet reports of Mon­
,, 
day's meeting seem to indicate that little was really done and while the SLC talks about this important issue, miscon­cep lions grow, impa tie nee begins to set in and students are getting less and less of an idea about where they actually stand. 
The SLC is to be congratulated for the complete manner in which they have approached this question, but it is coming to the point where the students will soon want to hear some answers. 
The most important result of yester­day's meeting was the discussion of at­titude. It seems to many who are not directly involved in this decision-making process that the over-riding attitude here has been negative. It has been largely discussion of what you cannot do and negative talk aUena tes and makes adherence to new regulations all the more difficult. 
The discussion in the body is refining the piece to more and more specifics and this is a good result of the already Ion­proceedings-vagueness is a quality that must be written out of the document. 
Particularly encouraging was th_e SLC's talk that some of the decision­making here must be left to the rector, a move that is in line with what should tbe the philosophy of the ND dorms. 
The work being done by the SLC is excellent. The discussions and revisions are going to result in a very good document, but it is time for them to get it on. The patience of the students has been admirable in this matter, but you really cannot expect them to wait too much longer for something definitive. 
Jerry Lutkus 

The Student Squad 
The reasons given by Robert O'Brien about the why the band failed to march around the campus prior to Friday's rally seem rather shallow. 
For a few years now, the "narrow walkways" and low hanging wires never prevented the band from beginning their march at Washington Hall, proceeding across the Main Quad to the South Quad and then over to the northside of campus and into Stepan Center. 
The major reason for the discon­tinuation of the march seems to be problems that the band has been having with the Meat Squad. The squad, originally formed to protect the band members, has gotten considerably out ofhand in the last year. Their absence Friday was abundantly noticeable. 
No longer did students have to keep one eye open for a descending drunken marauder in a "Meat Squad" shirt. Band members have talked about the roughing up that many students have received in the course of the march because Meat Squad members have gotten carried away. 
----------------~--­
the observer 
Night Editor: Kathy Schwille 
Ass't_ Night Editor: Robert Baker 
Layout: Tim O'Reiley 
Sports: Greg Corgan, Peggy Lawlor 
Typists: Barb Norcross, Carole Rechtsteiner, Tom 
Modglin, Howard Halle 
Night Controller: John Flannigan 
Compugraphic: Mike Goetz 
Day Editors:  Tom  Bundy and Marlene Zloza  
Copy Editor:  Marlene Zloza  
Pictureman:  Jerome  

Now, the squad is no longer involved with protecting the band. Yet, in Friday's march to Stepan, both the Irish Guard and band members seemed to do a commendable job in protecting the marching musicians. 
It is a shame to destroy a great tradition like the band canvassing the campus because of a rowdy group who did not do their job. The most sensible alternative is evident. 
Once students were requested to remain off the field at halftime, they responded admirably. Itseems to follow that if seriously requested to watch the band and aid in their protection along with the Irish Guard and the band reserves, they would respond in the same manner. 
Don't let a great Notre Dame and band tradition be allowed to die because of some rowdies. Let the students take the responsibility of watching the band. The wires and narrow walkways that they have avoided for years will continue to be avoided without injury. 
Jerry Lutkus 

daanesbury 
scorn: H()(U 
YOV' KNO«/, J£8'5 

PIP YO(! GV£R. 
11Y FAVO!l!TE 11./J.IAT'SGeT SUCH Gll£AT IT 
CONSPIRATOR l ON TJ.IE ScATS FOR JCB WASN'T 
I {J()N'T KNOW PR06RAM 11AGR(IP£R'S EASY. 
WHY-MAYBE 
F-OR 

CONCERn' JOANIE! 
IT'S HIS BOYISH TONIGHT? 6()0{) t()()I(S I
\ I 
I
\ 

THAT THEY Gil 11 
Last: Paint 0f Billie Jean, Libbers and Mike 
.j. napier 

Last week was not a good week for the average Notre Domer chauvinist. Take for example the experiences of Mike during Billie Jean week. 
Early in the week , Mike walks into his almost entirely male finance class expecting to hear the usual, "Ya gotta put money in ta get money out" lecture. Instead, Mike hears his finance professor harrangue, "You dummys are not going to get jobs when you graduate because you don't take women seriously enough to meet their com­petition." Next stop is mid-week lunch, there Mike reads an Ob­server headline proclaiming something about feminist jocks. Ap­parently, some Notre Dame libber, with the domestic name Betsy (as in sewing and Ross), is forming a local Ms. Tennis team. Mike im­mediately recognizes this as a threat to the Victory March with the "as her loyal sons go marching on... " lyrics. Mike cringes as he sings the fight song to himself, this time adding "as her loyal sons and daughters go marching on... " However, late in the week, Mike's fortunes improve when he finds a silly, self-appointed, Sissy Faren­thold feminist who is so libby she shrieks in his ear that she'll bet Billie Jean will win. Of course, Mike, spotting a sucker when he sees one, puts all he has on his bet including his roommate whom he mortgages for a few chips of credit from the libby. 
Thursday evening comes, but to Mike's amazement, Bobby Riggs isn't beating Billie Jean at all. Infact, the situation is so serious Mike is spending his entire evening dealing with his financial affairs by exhorting Bobby Riggs to stop putting him on. As the evening wanes, Mike begins to maoan, "I'd like to see her try and play Rod Laver! Roy, would he out the bra back on that broad!'' 
After the match, like Roosevelt after Pearl Harbor, Lincoln after Bull Run and Washington after Valley Forge, Mike moves to reassert his assertiveness, this time without Bobby Riggs. Amidst braless North Quad chants notifying him he is currently number two and to the background music of "I am Woman" blaring from a B-P room, in­trepid Mike joins in a united counter-offensive designed by the same sex who had planned Saratoga, Gettysburg and Normandy. 
First, Mike defaults on his bet and keeps his roommate. Second, he broadsides "Lay Lady Lay" across the North Quad aimed directly at B-P's "I am Woman" wind0w Next, Mike intercepts and thwarts a "jock raid" by dumping the participants in St. Joe's Lake. Leaving the victorious scene, he mumbles to himself, "Dumb broads, where did they expect to end up, anyway?" Finally, Mike terminates his offensive by apprehending a libby, who is shouting "we are number one," and explaining to her how she is both not number one and as obnoxious as Rosemary Casals. 
If women had only recognized the insignificance of it all Mike the intrepid domer, wouldn't have had to flunk his Emil T'. the ~ext morning. But since women went on this irrational ego_trip because of a te~nis game, Mike had to uphold his male honor by staying up and playmg "Lay Lady Lay," turning back jock raids, and setting ec­centrically libby women straight on who is number one and who is number two. 
Mike muttered to himself as he went to bed that night, "If only women could recognize insignificance for themselves." 


rJarry trudeau 
UM/1£ SC£ .. TH£ FIRST ACT 15 £XCERPTS 
OH, I 
FROM HIS 0/ARY AFTeR. H£4R. 
THAT THERE'S A COVeR-l/P THAT'S SYNOPSIS, FOL-LOW£0 BY A GREAT! QVESTION ANO ANSWeR PER/01?. 
I· ----­

Tuesday, September 25, 1973 the observer 


Campus sx:urity tackles growing problems 
by Gary Allietta Staff Reporter 

<Part II of a 3-part series) 
Guarding a smaller college 
requires a different approach 
from policing larger univeristies. 
New problems arise and the em­
phasis on the old ones change. 
For instance, at smaller schools, 
traffic becomes an important issue 
while drug awareness decreases. 
Theft, which includes vandalism at 
smaller colleges, is the unanimous 
choice as the most frequent crime 
on large campuses. 
One of the main reasons for the 
changes goes back to the idea that 
more people created more ac­
tivity. One crime is less likely to 
be noticed or reported amoung 
many'. When a few crimes are 
committed, even the least severe 
ones appear to be major issues. 
At Ohio State, the theft of a bike is 
an everyday occurrence, whereas 
at DePauw it assumes a position of 
a major campus crime. 
WMU 

To trace the transition from 
large college to small, it may be 
best to look at a medium size 
school first. Western Michigan 
University has an enrollment of 
20,000 on a 370 acre acampus. 
While being one of the four largest 
schools in Michigan, it is small 
enough to promote a close 
student relationship. 
On July 1, 1973, WMU changed 
its security format in order to -become a more efficient force. 
According to director Keith Shel­
eler, the idea is working. "We are 
a formal police agency," he 
asserted, adding that the change 
was upon the recommendation of 
administration and student body 
alike. 
Youthfulness and education are 
the keys to the new image of the 
department. "The majority of our 
people are working on or have 
degrees," said Sheeler. In ad­
dition, incentives for obtaining 
college degrees and credit are 
built into the officers' salaries, 
already the highest in the county. 
The average age of the da­
partment is in the 30's, but that 
age is high because several meme­
bers are retainees from the 
previous force. Most of the 
recruits were hired because of a, 
among other things, their youth. 
Western has joined many other schools in having their officers become sworn deputies of the county. Members of the force, including the old vets, undergo standard police training. Officers retained from the old department had to pass a ;basic course along with the rookies. 
There are two divisions in the department, safety and security. Safety handles fire protection and industrial and maintenance checks. Security is formed by 1? patrolmen and their captain along with two plainclothes detective1. and their captain. In addition; there are 10 dispatchers and servicemen. Service is a student aid function available for students who are injured or otherwise in need. · Student patrols are also utilized and a student clerk is in the security office at all times. 
WMU is located within Kalamazoo, a city of 214,000. Good relations exist between the student body and the townsfold, and the crime rate in town is average, making the security job a little easier for the police. 
However, the campus is con­stantly patrolled. minimum shifts have a sergeant and two officers, along with student patrols making random inspection of the campus. As a part of the changeover, the department is getting a new radio system so that all personnel may be radio equipped. From midnight to 6 every morning all dorms use security keys similar to those used in girls's dorms at Notre Dame, eliminating nightly dorm patrols. 
drugs and bikes Larceny is the biggest crime at Western, especially, noted Sheeler, in the locker rooms. Bikes, though, no longer disappear as frequently'. Free registration and tagging is offered to th~ student body. Says Sheeler," Since the installation of the new force, only 33 bikes have been taken while four people were apprehended in the act of stealing." He added that most crimes were committed by non­university people. On the lighter side, Sheeler feels that drugs are declining on campus. "They're getting back to Boone's Farm," he says. Beth Chernecki, a junior at Western, says she thinks the police are doing a. fine job. However, the general attitude among students may be that the police are 

'­


.. Campus security measures grow more sophisticated to meet greater needs. 
not fair and the change may be for try to cope with the large number Officers are not equipped with the worse. of cars, but they are not always sidearms, only mace. In case of The worst crime on campus? successful. Because of this, ac­trouble, they radio the 30-man "Depending on how you look at it, cording to Mike Myers, relations Valparaiso city police force for it's either dope or student rip­with the students are poor. assistance. Students must also call offs," Beth declared. ''The police here are the city department for aid and paranoid...they think the students either a city or campus policement 
Ball State are out to get them," declares will be dispatched. 

With 18,000 students on 900 acre Myers, a junior. Other than the vandalism is the major problem campus, Ball State University is a traffic situation, he feels, the two on campus. As Robuck sees it, the 

little smaller than WMU. The groups get along. "The police problem is with"both students and 
security departments are almost didn't make the laws, but they townspeople." He also noted that identical, though. Once again, the must enforce them." He noted that bike theft is a frequent crime. Last shift is to a younger staff, the mean the "Police know a lot more than year, $2800 worth, mostly speed­age being 35. There are 31 sworn people think," except of course bikes, were taken at Valpo.

officers in the force, along with 
that students don't hate them.

several clerical staff members. DePauw
Myers said that rape was "big"
For the past 16 years, Thomas on campus. but not reported that De Pauw University has a force Osborne, 54, has been the head of often. He and Osborne both agree similar to Valpo's. In their four­the department. He spent 10 years that theft is the most serious of­mao department are two former as an Indiana State Police officer fense However, the security policement, a graduate of theand received a certification in department has solved more than National Crime Prevention In­police administration from In­a third of the cases they have ine­stityte, and a current police ad­diana University before acquiring vestigated this year. ministration student. 

his present position. 

Osborne's job is not an easy one with 34 dorms on campus. Only six Observer lnsir:tht men are assigned to each night 
shift and on no other building Bikes are the .largest of over 300 Grover Vaughan, 52, is the 
idrector of security at De Pauw.
guards are provided, so all dorm­thefts a year at BSU. The school 

sas are locked at night. Osborne has a registration agreement with After spending 5 years as an 
Muncie for the 4000 bikes on Indiana State Trooper, he came tohas proposed using students the school in 1955 and has beenas guards, but as yet the university campus. 
Osborne noted an increase in director since. In his first year hehas taken no action. 
drug use this year, especially of was the only man in the depart­Half of the student body are marijuana. He, as Donald Hanna, ment, but over the years has builtcommuters , so traffic is a big his staff arround him.
feels that "enforcement is not the
problem at the school'. Police most effective way to control the All. members of the security situation...education is." force are sworn peace officers but However, he added, as a police carry no guns. They make ran­officer he is sworn to uphold the dom patrols in a radio-equipped law and "if a situation warrants car and call the Greencastle police arrest," then that is the course he in case of trouble . Maintenance follows. shifts also do fire and safety 

At the small school level, several checks in dorms and other im­more changes occur. For instance, portant buildings as a depart­the campus blends in with the town mental function. 
so that the campus police no Almost all of the 2500 students longer operate entirely on their live on campus in one of six dorms own within the school Most city of 23 fraternity or sorority houses. police forces form l.vjlerative Of these 29 residences under agreements with university Vaughan's care, only the four security, eliminating the need for women's dorms are locked at night larger .forces. by university direction. Several 
other buildings, including class Valparaiso University operates buildings, are locked at night. 
a 6-man security staff comprised Vaughan feels that the majorityof three regular officers who work of the petty thefts are committed Monday through Friday, and three by the students themselves. He 
students who divide the weekend also feels that drug use on campus
shifts. Of the three regular men, is declining., but that smokingtwo are retired police officers. marijuana is still the most com­Also, 4 to 10 extra students are mon offense, 
used for special events. Cheryl Wheaton, a junior at De The director of the force is Pauw, says the police are"nice,Mitchell Robuck, 58, who has held but they turn their backs on a lot." 
the position since 1970. He came to Oficers are detached and students Valpo in 1967 after spending 21 feel they turn problems over to years on the East Chicago police the city police. Most students have force. His department does not very little contact with the security 
work by allotment , but is funded force at all. through the department of student Cheryl feels that the department affairs. When Robuck first joined is understaffed and spends too the university, only one man was much time on trival things.
employed in the security. During However, she says that in time of 
his time as chief, though, it has trouble, the oolice are still "the 
expanded to its present size. people you call." 
the observer Tuesday, September 25, 1973
6 

Off campus food co-op is still only an idea 

by Kurt Heinz Starr Reporter 
Plans for an off-eampus food co­op are still very much up in the air according to organizer Rick Nauman. 
The off-campus senior had originally planned to set up a co-op with theNotre Damefood service, whereby students could buy food from the dining hall comisary. However, after meeting last Thursday with Brother Ryan, Edmund Price and Father Shilts on the matter, Nauman is looking fnr another route. 
The three said no to the co-op 
idea, according to Nauman. 
"They gave what seemed to be 
good reasons for their not being 
able to do it," said Nauman. 
Mauman said they foresaw problems with the containers the dining hall uses and the handling charge. The containers, in which the dining hall food is supplied would apparently be too large for small groups of students to use. ­
They also indicated that the han­dling charge, which would be in­volved, -would offset any savings made by the students on the price of the food. 

O'Brien cites safety reasons in cancelling traditional Dlarch 
by :\like Dewey Staff Reporter 
As many students noticed, the :'\otre Dame Marching Band did not makes its traditional march around campus prior to the pep rally held at Stepan Center 
last Friday night. 

According to Mr. Robert l)'Brien. director of the marching band, there were several reasons for this break in lid policy . 
Foremost among the reasons was the general safety and well­being of the band members. The march would have taken place at dusk and there are many hazard to deal within such a situation. 
The narrow walk-ways and the 
abundance of low strung wires 
were a major concern in cancelling 
the march. Band Members have 
the added burden of marching while carrying an instrument. Besides avoiding the previously mentioned obstacles, the marchers must concentrate on the music and the cadence. 
In essence, Mr. O'Brien con­cluded, they are marching blind. 
The possibility of sinstrument damage as a result of the hazar­dous march was also a very real concern. If an accident occurs and the instrument is damaged, there is little or no chance of repair before gametime. 
Another reason for the omission was the over-zealous behavior of the Meat Squad. Originally, this group was composed of members from the Blue Circle Honor Society. The Society disbanded several years ago, and since that time the squad has been under the authority of the Office of Student Affairs. 
CmlJpUS briefs. • • 
I 
SMC chorus formed 
The newly-formed women's chorus of Saint Mary's College is beginning preparations for its· formal appearance on December 
9. Planned for the Christmas concert in the Church of Loretto, 
l 1 the new chorus will be the featured ensemble, performing Benjamin Britten's A Ceremony of Carols. 
l 
Officers for this year have also been elected. They are: Aimee Beckmann, president; Jeannt Norell, secretary; and Jennifer Kellow, Patty Jo Cahalan, and Mary Mannion, freshman, sophomore and junior represen­
tatives on the Chorus Advisory
.{ 
I Board. Jamie Massa is the ac­companist. 
The chorus represents an at­tempt to provide female as well as mixed-voice ensembles for women interested in musical activities and is a re-establishment of a tradition of such groups at Saint Mary's. The group has a membership of forty-five voices. 
series to end 
The final program in a series of special discussions dealing with utilization of "Family Resources in Programs of Older Adults" will be held this Sunday at 2:00 pm in the Center for Continuing Education. 
Dr. John F. Santos, professor of psychology at Notre Dame, will be the moderator for the program. Panel members include Dr. William T. Liu, director for the Center for Study of Man and associate dean of the College of Arts and .etters: Rev. Donald McNeill. a pastoral theology professor, and Dr. John Roos, assistant professor of government and international studies. 
The program is open to the public without charge. Co­
sponsored with Notre Dame are the Indiana Committee for the Humanities, and Resources for the Enrichment of Adult Living <REAL) of South Bend. 

Raymond promoted 
The promotion of Assistant Dean Vincent R. Raymond to associate dean of the College of Business Administration and the selection of Dr. Francis A. Yeandel as assistant dean have been an­nounced by Rev_ James T. Burt­chaell, C.S.C., provost of the University of Notre Dame. 
The two join Dean Thomas T. Murphy and Assocate Dean John 
R. Malone in the direction of Notre Dame's second largest college. 
Raymond, who received his master's degree in business ad­ministration at Harvard University, has been a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1957. Yeandel received a doctoral degree in education psychology at Notre L_,ne in 1966 after serving for three years as executive officer of the Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps on the campus. He holds the rank of lieutenant colonel. Earlier degrees for the assistant · professor of management were received at University of Southern California and Temple University. 
violin-piano recital 
Karl Greenshields, the director of the South Bend Youth Chamber Orchestra and William Cerny, the chairman of the ND Music Department, will present a violin­piano recital at 8:15 pm this Wednesday in the Memorial Library auditorium. The program is open to the public without charge. 
The major function of the Squad was to clear a passage for the band as it was marching. Over a period of months, it became clear that the Squad was ineffective in its performance. 
For the time being, then, the band will have no further use of the Meat Squad. 
Mr. O'Brien stated the the general student reaction to the change in tradition is now being studied. The possibility of in­stituting a new tradition may be discussed at a later time. 
The band's performance at the Northwestern game gave Mr. O'Brien great satisfaction. The band members are grateful to the student body for staying off the playing field during their half-time 
A violin instructor at Notre Dame. Greenshields is director of orchestras at Adams, Edison and Nuner schools. He has conducted several orchestras in Oklahoma and has played in civic orchestras in seven states, including the Oklahoma City Symphony and the Mobile Symphony. 
Cerny is a former faculty member at the Eastman School of Music and joined the Notre Dame staff last year as a piano instructor ·and professor of music. He served as a professional accompanist in New York for several years after graduation from Yale University. 
Their Wednesday program, the 
first in a series of free concerts 
planned this year by the Music 
Department, will include three 
sonatas: "F Major Sonata," Op. 
24, by Beethoven ("The Spring">; 
"Hindemith Sonata in E", and the 
"Brahm's Sonata No. 3 in D. 
Minor." 

Mauman now plans to try and set up something with local super­markets Thrift-T-Mart and Martis who do their own supplying. 
He is currently waiting for some response from off-campus students who would be interested. Until he has an idea how many students would join a co-op , Mauman will have no idea how much of a saving can be involved. 
To date, Nauman has done all of the organizing himself. 
"I need to get a response on this", said Nauman. "I need to know how many are involved and I also need one person who would be willing to take on the ordering as a full time job. I am still very much open to idea input." 
Nauman asked that students interested to call him at 233-3945. 
Nauman did have some success with his idea of getting the dining hall to offer five and 10 meal plans for students who would only eat lunch and dinner on campus. The dining hall currently offers 17 and 21 meal plans. 
Shilts, Ryan, and Price were 
enthusiastic to the idea according 
to Nauman. 

"They indicated that they could 
offer a five meal plan for llOdollars 
per semester." he said. "It would 
offer 75 meals, which would 
average 1.40 per lunch:rheten meal 
plan they quoted would be between 
$250 and $260." 

Nauman also stated that they indicated it would be pro rated for this semester. However, they were unwilling to let a student change his mind and have his money refunded in mid semester. 
Again, nothing can be set up until 
Nauman has an idea how many 
would be interested. 
The only other advise Nauman could offer off-campus students was to buy some of their food from Simon Brothers, a local supplier who, he said, will sell to anyone. 
Ur.til Nauman can determine interest in efforts, it looks as though Simon Brothers, high­priced supermarket food and the Huddle will continue to be the only recourse to off-campus students. 

ALL THE BEER YOU CAN DRINK at 
NICKlE'S 
DOWN THE BOILERMAKER PARTY! 
Thurs. Sept. 25 8 p.m.-2 a.m. 
$2.50 couple $1.50 stag girls 
$2.50 guys SHOTS of whisky -35¢ tequila sunrise 50' wine coolers-40¢ 
IMPORTANT MEETING like to go 
PARIS 




ROME ATHENS? 
Art historians do it periodically. If you have d~clared or are contemplating a major in Art H•story you cannot afford to miss the meeting Thursday, September 27 at 7:30 in the University Art Gallery. Please be there . 
Applications are now being accepted for the position of Observer features editor. 
Please submit resume and applicable portfolios to ­Jerry Lutkus The Observer Box Q 
or come to the of.fice by Friday afternoon. ··1 I 
l
·' 


...
Tuesday, September 25, 1973 the observer 
7 


Student union will issue listing of local talent 
by Valerie Zurblis Staff Reporter 

Did you ever wish you could have a live band at a big party you were throwing at reasonable prices? Or perhaps you have some hidden talent you would like to share with others and get monetary benefits? If so, Dave Bennett should be able to help you. 
Bennett, working for the Student Union, is compiling a directory of local and on-<:ampus talent. Ex­plains Bennett, "We'll be able to supply groups for'different events like Homecoming, Armory parties, private parties, or any other special event that needs some sort of music or a band." 
Students at Notre Dame and St. Mary's and any bands or musicians in the South Bend area can be included in this directory. The dates and opportunities are on campus or South Bend. 
The workings of the directory are very simple. If someone wanted a band for a private party theycould contact the Student Union at 7757 and describe the kind of band they wanted. A band would contacted and the two parties would be left to negotiate a price. 
This is the third year the directory has been in existence, stated Bennett. But he also added that this is the first year that the directory has really been promoted. This service is to benefit not only the people who want the entertainment but also musicians to help them get a job and make some money for themselves. In the future, speculated Bennett, this service could epossibly ·expand into an agency. 
Bennett has been an active member of the Student Union staff for three years. Besides the directory project, Bennett works on the social commission and helps prepare ND concerts as a member of the stage crew. 
Summing up Bennett said, "We're just trying to be the middleman between bands and the demand for bands." 

Quiet security vveekend at ND 
by Janet Denefe Staff Reporter 

The Notre Dame campus ex­perienced a ''quiet and peaceful weekend" as far as security concerns, according to Arthur 
Election results delayed 
Results of Monday's elections at St. Mary's are being withheld in lieu of a review of election procedure. 
Patty Kampsen, Eelction Committee Chariperson, revealed late last night that the committee "was reviewing election procedures to make sure they were run in the proper manner." 
The elections results will be 
made public upon completion of 
the review, Kampsen said. 
The elections were for the position of REGINA South Vice President and student assembly posts from Regina, LeMans, Holy Cross, Off-Campus and the Day Student representative. 
by Patrick Hanifin Staff Reporter 

Asn unusual method of in­creasing reading speed and comprehension, Project Learn, will soon be offered to ND and SMC students, according to Mr. Bruce Corley, president of Learn Inc. and Mr. Julian Powell, local dealer. 
This home study program, which has been used in various sections of the country over the last five years, is based on the theory that the primary componet of reading comprehension is the thinking process rather than eye movement. The theory is based on work done by Dr. Russell G. Stauffer, Professor of Education at the University of Delaware and consultant for the Delaware and New Jersey reading enhancement programs. Dr. Stauffer contends that proper training in disciplined 
thinking is the key to more efficient reading. 
The Learn Project makes use of recorded tapes and of reading workbooks to teach "sequential skill development". Mr. Corley said, "We teach students to first Pears, director o Campus Security. There were a variety of minor incidents throughout the campus. 
A larceny occured at the Morris I n during the football game in which a quantity of jewelry and a sport­scoat were taken. The total loss is valued at $177. A key was used to enter two adjoining rooms. 
An SMC girl was involved in a bicycle-<:ar accident near the ­Grotto on Monday about 1:15 P.M. The girl ran into a motor vehicle, was taken to St. Joseph Hospital by an ambulance, and was later released. 
A bicycle was stolen from the east side of Morrissey Hall nd 
another was reported m1ssmg from the front of Pangborn Hall. A 
wallet was lost during the pep rally at Stepan Center Friday night and another person, not a student, reported that his wallet was lost while at the football game. 
dog was reported missing from '316 Heenan Hall. The owner, an 
FOR SALE
off-campus student, had mistakenly thought te dog was 
MEERSCHAUM PIPFS! 
Exceptional values, .'er­
sonalized service. Catalog.
being watched. 
A motorcycle was stolen at 
PMP Co. Box 444. Gaither­
approximately I :50 A.M. Saturday 
sburg, MD. 20760. morning from the C-3 motorcycle 
Pioneer SA.SOO amp, TX-500
parking lot. At 12:25 A.M. Sunday 
tuner, and SR-202W reverb
morning, security police ran two 
amp. Dynaco Sca80 amp 80 
juveniles off the roof of Stepan 
watts RMS. Best offer. Call 
8436.
Center. 
Handmade turquoise jewelery from the southwest. Rings,


Chisholm urges people 
bracelets necklaces reasonably pficed. Call Tom at 283-8373 or drop by 209 Pangborn.


to participate in politics 
(continued from page 1) 
another campaign. "Money is the 
key to power," she said, "and until 
the Party gets power, change 
cannot occur." 
She feels that the Democratic 
Party will not win the election in 
1976 unless the South joins with it. 
Three men whom she foresees as 
future leader~ not only of the Party 
but of the nation are Gaylord 

Olson AM-FM stereo reciever built-in cassette deck. Garrard

Home study speed reading 
x-10 turntable 1 yr. old. Ex­cellent cond. -$185. Bruce 8314. 
Must sell electric stove,

will be offered to students moving at end of week. Will 
Nelson of Wisconsin, Birch Bayr of 
Dec. 5115. 
Sony-TC.127 cassette stereo deck. Sansui 350A AM-FM stereo tuner amplifier. Call 
Indiana, and Walter Mondale of 
Minnesota. She believes that these 
George 3546. 
men have the ability, reason and feeling for minority groups and 
Girl's 3-speed bike. Good
leadership. 
condition. Kay 4702
Congresswoman Chisholm's speech was the first of a series 
Pair RDC 2-way speakers.
entitled "The State of Life in 
Originally $149. Had 2 mos. 
America" sponsored by the 
$120 or best offer. 232-6377. 
Academic Commission and the 
10-speed Peugeot just 6 mos.
Law School. 
old. Must sell, graduating in 
take any offer. also some kitchenware. Call Paddy 234­

set a goal for reading a particular 
4455. 

piece and then survey the general ideas before concentrating on 
WANTED 

the rpost important sections." 
, Desperately need 4 S. Cal

According to Mr. Julian Powell 
tickets Will pay Call Pat 3273 

some thirty thousand people have 
Desperatly need GA tix for the

completed the course and most 
army and Navy games. Call

have been able to double their 
1364. . 

reading speed. Powell represent the North Carolina dealesrship 
Want 2 GAs. Cal tix 272-0913 in evening.

which wishes to expand the programs to campuses around the 
Need tix to MSU game. Call 

country. The corporation's home 
Chris at 6586. 

is located in New Jersey. 
Need 4 Ga tix MSU game. Call John 282-1568. 
Need 2 tix USC game, call Jeff ll32 . Pay well.
OBSERVER 
Need 2 MSU tix call Alice 4435. 
Need 2 Purdue tix. Call Maria

ADVERTISING 
or Joe at 4027, 7964, or 8661. 
Need 2 GA Navy tix , call John 8848 evenings. 
1 GA tix ·MSU. Call Mike 234­
CAll 
8810. 
Need up to 4 Purdue tix, separate or together. Call8419. 
Need 1 Purdue ticket-please





283-7471 
call Mike. 1592. 


.. Dave Bennet terms himself a middleman bringing bands and music­seekers .together. 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
FOR RENT 
3 bedroom furnished house 2 car garage, utilities, linens, china ware furnished . $75 per student. Will take 2·3. 233-1314. 
233-3403' 
NOTICES 
TONY'S SHOE SHOP: shoe repair-shoe sales-watch bands­zippers-shoe care supplies-all types of leather repair. ON CAMPUS-in Adm. Bldg. 
If you have sex, you may hace gonorrhea, syphis or both . If in doubt, check it out! Call 284­9781 or come: 9th floor bounty bldg. Man thru Fri Sam to 3pm. Free-no appointments­confidential-bring a friend. 
EUROPEAN STUDY TOUR: Dec. 27-Jan.15-England, Ireland, Scotland and Wales. 3college credits availble. $679 all expenses from New York. For information call Prof. A.R. Black SMC 4948. 
Students seeking info about Gay Awareness Community call 7768 Wed-Fri , 7-9pm. 
Will do mending : repair 
aippers,  seams,  tears.  Also  
altering, hemming, etc.  Call  
284-4601.  

Anyone interested in an inter­
campus ping png call: 284 4601 (girls team) or 283-1109Guys team l after 10 pm. 
Flanner's America needs solo and group muxicians, rock or folk for coffeehouse concert series. Contact Mike Hess 912 Flanner phone 1.c09. 
PERSONALS 
Lost · class ring '74 Wed night near Sorin, Walsh or Dillon. Please return reward. Marty 8683 301 Stanford. 
LOST AND FOUND 

Lost class ring '74 Wed night near Sorin, Walsh or Dillon . Please return. Reward. Marty 8683 301 Stanford. 
Lost 4 mo. old black and white Malamute pup. Saturday near Keenan. reward·232-8811. 
Lost: Girls blue billfold. around Ports party OC. Please call Chris Muelhausen 233-8128. 
Reward. 
Brown wallet lost at rally. Reward call 3691 no questions. 
RIDES WANTED 
Need ride for 2, west on 1-80 Fri. Sept. 28 Destination: Davenport. Will Share ex­penses. Please call 5124. 

the observer
8 


Gary Diminick: little man in a big Irish bacldield 
If you are a well-known high where his dad. Joe, is the football school football player from Mt. coach, Gary set state records for Carmel. Pa .. they know about you touchdowns (38) and points scored in nearby Shamokinbecause the (244>. same newspaper. the ''New-Item," His performance attracted a lot serves both cities. of college. coaches' attention, too, 
And if you are well known in Mt. including Ara Parseghian at Notre Cc::-mel and Shamokin, it's likely Dame. that a lot of people in football~razy Three years after all those Pennsylvania know about you, too. touchdowns, Ga_ry can still walk l<'ootball fans there remember down the street m ~t. Carmel and Gary Diminick, and for good people rem_em_ber him--not only for reason. -During his senior year at ":hat he d1d m the _past, but for Mt. Carmel Area High School., \\hat he has accomplished at Notre 
Dame 
John Fineran::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:::::::::::::::;.;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
., 

{ Blarney Stone(d) 
\ 
:::::::::::::::::::::::;.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;.;::::-:::-:::::::::-::lbtpourri · 
Why is football the most popular sport in the nation today? Probably because of the sport's great ability to supply its fans with the unexpected­-the bomb. the upset. 
:"l'otre Dame fans have suffered through the unexpected the last two seasons. Fist Southern Cal in 1971, then Missouri last season hung defeats on the Irish. They were truly unbelievable losses. In 1971, no one gave the Trojans a chance against Walt Patulski and Co. Last season, the"rigers came into Notre Dame Stadium after losing to Nebraska 62-0. 

College fai)s got another taste of the unexpected last Friday night when Texas, an overwhelming choice among the experts (Sports Illustrated \ and the Observer sports staff among them), fell to an unheralded Miami squad in the Orange Bowl, 20-15 
Purdue, the next opponent for the Fighting Irish, dropped another contest to a Mid-American Conference team at home in Ross-Ade Stadium. Last season, the Boilermakers lost to Bowling Green, 17-14. Saturday, new coach Alex Agase saw his team lose to another, Miami <Ohio), 24-19. 
These games last weekend were not the first upsets this season, nor will they be the last. It just goes to prove that the game is won on the field , not in the newspapers. 
You just have to marvel at the performance of the Irish on Saturday against !',lorthwestern. The Irish figured to have another strong offense, but the show the young defensive crew put on was one to build dreams on--national championship dreams at that. 
Another Miami squad was in on an upset, but on the other end of the score. The_ Mi~mi Dolphins, last year's undefeated Super Bowl champs, lost to an msp1red Oakland Raider club, 12-7, thus ending Miami's 18 game winning streak during regular and post-season play. 

There were other upsets in pro football's second week, most notably the Cardinal's 34-27 win over Washington and the Eagles 23-23 tie with the New York Giants. ' There will be more upsets during the season. Although it is late, 
Blarney Stonetd) will go out on limb and predict a probable finish in the NFL. In the National Conference, Washington will take the East the Vikings the Central, and the Rams the West. In the American 'con­ference,itshouldbetheDolphinsintheEast, the Pittsburgh Steelers in the Central and the Rider~ in the West. For the at-large playoff spots, it's a toss-up between the Giants, Cowboys and Packers in the National while the Browns could get a challengefrom the surprising Broncos in the American. It will be Pittsburgh and Washington in the Super Bowl at Houston, with the former bringing the Vince Lombardi Trophy to the Steel City. 
The player who really impressed on Saturday afternoon was quarterback Tom Clements. As you know, Clements returned home on 
I" the eve of the opener to be with his family. His 13-year old sister, while walking along a street in McKees Rocks, Pa., was hit by a careening automobile. She underwent surgery and was on the critical list. Saturday morning she died. Tom did not know at the game that she was gone. Yet,what a ,how he put on. He completed nine of 12 passes,and scored twice on runs. Afterwards, in what could have been a happy \! i dressing room, Clements learned of the death. He left immediately for home. So while Notre Dame celebrates, Tom Clements mourns. Indeed, in what should be one of the greatest moments in his football career, tragedy marks Tom Clements' life. Yet, knowing the young man, it will make Tom Clements all that much more dedicated, not only on the field, but off it as well. It is a shame that it had to happen that way. 

Saturday, against Northwestern, 
Gary was the leading Irish 
ballcarrier gaining 78 yards in four 
attempts and one touchdown. that 
coming on a 21 yard jaunt. 
A year ago, he was Notre 
Dame's third-leading rusher and 
top receiver out of the backfield 
with 14 receptions for 143 yards. 
Those may not be spectacular 
statistics, but for a 5-foot 9. 175­
pound halfback who was supposed 
to be too small to play major 
college football, the ac-
r h t . f f .
co~&~p~r~~iv~l;,a liS y~~:~s you 
could say I'm not as great a success 
as I was in high school," Diminick 
admits," but in my own way, I'm 
pleased. I don't think I was 
unrealistic about what I could 
accomplish when I came here. My 
father is a coach and he taught me 
to take success as well as defeat. 
"Publicity can put a lot of 
pressure on a person," Gary adds, 
"but when I came here, I still had 
to prove myself. Everyone else 
that comes has a good record and 
reputation, but you have to 
challenge yourself and say, 'Now 
let's see what you can really do.' I 
felt confident when I came here, 
but I had a lot to learn. I feel I've 
done that now." 
The biggest adjustment any 
back has to make is mastering 
blocking techniques and using 
blockers. 
"A high school b~.ck doesn't have 
to do a lot of blocking," Diminick 
admits, "but in college you can't 
get away without doing it. To play, 
you have to blr.ck. I knew I was 
never going to be a power blocker 
in anybody's eyes, but I felt I t'ould 
get the job done. 
"And freshman year, prepping 
for the varsity against guys like 
Walt Pai:ulski and Greg Marx, I 
had to learn to overcome my size 
and lack of power by perfecting 
technique. You're never going to 
beat guys like that on physical 
strength. You get by on 
technique." 
Diminick learned also that it was 
the smart runners, not necessarily 
the fast ones, that succeeded in 
college football. "I don't have 
what you'd call blazing speed," 
says Gary, who has run the 100­
yard dash in 9.8. "Someone like AI 
Hunter <a Notre Dame freshman), 
who has run the 100 in 9.3 has 
blazing speed. But even with my 
speed, I could run away from 
people in high school because it's a 
breakaway game. 
Irish CC team 


captures opener 
Notre Dame's cross-country squad captured its initial meet of the season by defeating Nor­thwestern, 25-30, on Friday af­ternoon at home. 
The Irish harriers produced the firstthreefinishers in the meet with freshman Jim Reinhart again taking a first. Reinhart's time over the five-mile course was 

The Collegiate Commissioners Association, which represents major 24:58. He was followed by team­conferences, has announced a new post-season tournament next spring mates Jim Hurt and Mike Housley. for the best of the non-qualifiers who don't make the NCAA tour-Two th I . h 
nament o er ns runners, Joe Digge-r Phelps, in so many words, said that he would be forever grateful ~~~t andd ~ik~hGahagan,_ firis~ed to the NIT for what itdidforhis young Irish squad last season. C h a~ en ,respective Y or CCA now apparently feels ungrateful to the NIT with the forming of oac on Faley s squad. their own tournament. The dates of both tournaments will coincide. One Faley was pleased with the of them will certainly not survive; the betting is that it will be the NIT, the performance, particularly the fact tournament many second-best sq_ua~s used to go to. . . . t~~t ~ix ND men crossed the .' So where does that leave the maJOr mdependents? Could you 1magme, 1f f1mshhne within a minute of each..· the CCA tourney was played last season and there was no NIT what it other . would have meant to the Irish and their recruiting success in the spring? The commissioners represent such conferences as the Big Ten, the "Team effort wins cross~ountry Pacific Eight and the Missouri Valley, all conferences which sent meets," Faley exalted. representatives to both th NCAA and NIT last year. All these conferences 

The Irish will next entertain 
are members of the NCAA hierarchy, as are the major independants. 
Michiganstateon Friday afternoon starting at 4 p.m. The Spartans

College basketball owes a great deal to the NIT, and what the CCA 
traditionally have good distance

istrying to do to the NIT's future should be labelled a crime. If the NCAA 
runners, so they should provide

is going tomakeany headway in its confrontation with theAAU it isn't 
Coach Faley and his team with a

going to score any points with this basketball problem it has now created. 
good competitive meet. 


"Little" Gary Diminick, seen here squeezing through an even smaller hole in last year's game against Navy, a game in which be returned the opening kickoff 84 yards for a touchdown. 
"In college, you learn to use your  championship. One slip, and you  
speed for 10, 15, or 20 yards. But  can be out of the picture."  •  
even more important, you have to  Losses have never been accepted  
Jearn to use what is in front of you  gracefully around Notre Dame  
or you have no effectiveness. You  because they can knock the Irish  
have to know how to use your  out of the national picture. But  
blockers."  Diminick insists that the Irish take  
Now that Diminick has learned  defeat better than most.  
how to apply his talents--as  "If you're not out there to  
evidenced by his performance last year--this season takes on even  win,you don't belong out there" Gary says. "No one says you ha~e  
more importance to him.  to be happy about losing but if you  
"The thing that no one un­ learn from a defeat, then you've  
derstands unless he is closely  taken it well. The team that makes  
associated with Notre Dame is that  the fewest mistakes, in most cases,  
we can never afford the luxury of  is going to win.  
having an 'off' day against any  "We could be national cham­ 
team. A team that's done nothing  pions this year. It's hard to tell  
and is just another team against  right now. But if we have break­ 
some one else suddenly becomes a  downs in our kicking game or on  
world beater when they play us.  offense and defense, we won't be  
Everyone wants to beat Notre  champions. "We've already made  
Dame, and that makes each op- enough mistakes to learn from.  
ponent tougher," Diminick says.  Now is the time to be good losers  
"So we can't afford to go into any  and prove we've learned  
game with anything less than a  something.  
positive. a_ttitude or sure-fire  "Ifthe Irish are good losers, they  
determmabon no matter what a  could turn outto be better winners  
team's record is. We're striving  this year. Gary Diminick thinks  
for excellence every week, and our  so, and after all, he's been around  
goal is always the national  long enough to know.  








OBSERVER 
SPORTS 
Notre Dame sailing team hosts annual fall regatta 
by Pete McHugh 
It can be said, without reser­vation, that Notre Dame is not a sailing school. There are no sailing scholarships, sailing coaches, or sailing cheerleaders. No one talks about "sailing weekends" at Notre Dame. No one waits in line to buy sailing tickets. And when was the last time you went to a sailing rally? 
This weekend, the Irish sailing team <in its twenty-sixth year of existence) hopes to eliminate some of this obscurity as they host thirteen other schools in the annual Notre Dame Fall Regatta at Diamond Lake in Cassapolis, Michigan. The competition features Ohio State, Purdue, Northwestern, Detroit, John Carroll, Xavier, Indiana, Miami <Ohio), Iowa. Michigan, Ohio Wesleyan, Wisconsin, and Oshkosh. 
Last weekend, with only four sailors, Notre Dame could manage just an eight-place finish in a field of thirteen teams at the Indiana Fall Regatta. Freshman Paul Makielski captured the only vic­t?ry for the Irish in the regatta's first race. But after that initial competition, Notre Dame never challenged, eventually falling behind even Oshkosh on the storm­swept Bloomington lake. 
This weekend, there will be no hot dog stands. There will be no alumni wearing "I back the Irish" buttons. The bookstore will sell only one Notre Dame nightie. But only 25 minutes north of the Golden Dome, the Fighting Irish will tangle with the likes of the Ohio State Buckeyes, the Michigan State Spartans, and yes, even the Oshkosh Titans. Any Notre Dame sports team can avenge a loss to an Ohio State or a Michigan State, but only the Irish sailing team will have this opportunity to repay the Titans. 




