On The Inside 
Huddle banishes the Lampoon 
.....page 3  
Woman  convicted  of  
rape  .....page 6  




serving the notre dame community 
Friday, February 16, 1973

Vol. VII No. 82 

Observer Insight 
Another kind of crime hits the library students 
by Bill Murphy 
Staff Reporter 
Unreturned books cost the Memorial Library more than $2,500 during the year 1971-72. This is only part of a more ever­whelming cost suffered by the library because this figure represents only books that were legally borrowed. 
Theft and vandalism of reserve books and periodicals hurt the student body academically, as well as divert library funds that could be used elsewhere. 
Director of Libraries, David Sparke, spoke about the problem of theft and vandalism in an in­terview on Wednesday. According to Sparks, the exact amount of money spent on book replacement and repair is unknown because the money isn't available to make a complete inventory of library acquisitions at this time. The University's book budget is an allotment of 3 per cent of the total budget rather than the 5 per cent considered by Sparks to be a necessary standard. 
Sparks said that there are two kinds of problems. The first is outright theft and vandalism where there is no intention of restoration. The second problem is that of volumes hidden out of place. This is done by some students so that a certain reserved volume is always readily available to them personally. 
From these problems stem two 
kinds of cost. There is the actual 
monetary cost which must come 
from the already strained book 
budget and there is the academic 
cost to other students who need the 
stolen volume. 
Sparks pointed out that once a 
book or scholarly journal is 
catalogued into the library 
collection its actual worth is 
sometimes doubled or tripled. 
The work necessary to include 
the item in the collection, as well 
as the fact that many works go out 
of print and are irreplaceable, 
makes the cost of restoration much 
more than the student would 
imagine. Cataloguing costs seven 
dollars per book and adding the 
actual cost of the book and its 
availability gives the actual cost of 
replacement. 
Security and Search 
Assistant Director for Ad­
ministration, Dan Donovan, spoke 
about security in the library. 
At any given time, said Donovan, 
there is an exit controller and one 
building walker. From 7 p.m. till10 
p.m. on Monday through Friday there is a second building walker on the second floor. 
The idea of limiting admittance to the library to students only has been considered in an attempt at closer security, according to Donovan, but the surrounding community does contribute heavily to the library and it helps improve the University's public relations to allow the citizens use of the facilities. 
The idea of some sort of elec­tronic security device was suggested but Donovan admits that if someone really wants to steal something there's probably 
no foolproof way to stop him. 
Along with these security efforts are those of Mr. Joseph Huebner's staff. Huebner is the Director of Circulation and his staff had to make 3,334 recorded searches for volume requested by students which were either hidden or stolen during 1971~72. 
Departmental libraries 

Asst. Director for College and Departmental Libraries, Franklin Long, stated that his staff had a theft problem of a different nature. 
Because of their easy accessibility Long felt the departmental libraries were the most vulnerable. 
In these libraries (e.g. Geology, Architecture, Engineering) students have a tendency to borrow books without the necessary paperwork and therefore Mr. Long's staff can't tell if a book has been stolen until after a certain waiting period. 
Long did note, however, that students who used the various departmental libraries show less inclination towards vandalism of scholarly journals. This he at­tributed to the fact that many are graduate students who realize the importance of such journals to fellow students and their irreplaceable nature. 
Lack of Integrity 
Sparks has a project in mind to try and curb student theft of volumes. By working closer with the faculty he hopes to set up a more developed reserve system of required and supplementary readings for courses which would enable a closer scrutiny of books used by undergraduates. Sparks noted that even this wouldn't be foolproof and it really isn't a substitute for greater student integrity. 
Long stated that if a student is to follow the Notre Dame Honor Code in his academic career he should carry it over into his use of library facilities. The students must realize the importance of the library facilities to their education, according to Long, and should treat them with respect knowing that others besides themselves must use them. 
Both Sparks and Donovan noted that, within their limitations, they are open to constructive criticism from both faculty and students concerning library operations. 


Junior parents W'eekend starts this evening 
Schedule on page 5 
No quota clause in plan: Pears 
Coed rectors OK new escort service 
by Jim Gresser 
Staff Reporter 

The rectors of Badin and Walsh Halls voiced their support for Security Director Arthur Pears' promise to give a security escort across campus to any person or group of persons who need it. 
In an interview Wednesday, Pears stated that security would provide a "walking escort at any time. any hour" and that there was no "quota clause" in the plan. The plan stems from the recent increase of harrassment of people walking across campus. 
Pears suggested that those who do not wish to walk alone try to arrange walking in a group. In that case they may deem a security escort un­necessary. He added, however, that security would provide an escort for the group if they wanted one. 
Pears promised to designate one officer specifically for the job of escort. If too many people called for escorts for one person to handle in a reasonable amount of time, Pears said that he would assign other officers, if available, to escort duty. 
Pears noted that there are alternative plans under consideration and added that he would be more than willing to discuss any other "reasonable plan" for an escort system. One plan under con­sideration is one in which students would work out an escort system among themselves. 
Walsh Rector Reacts 
.Joanne Szafran, Walsh rector, supports the present Security plan and said, "I really question how many girls wi.ll use it, but if one kid wants it, it would be a good idea to provide it." 
Szafran cited the expected ·lack of use to the prevalent "it won't happen to me" attitude on campus. 
Szafran added that though Notre Dame is a calm place, it is "not going to be sterile-safe torever." She said that there was no great parallel to the big cities but said that "it's time that we be a little more careful." 
She went on that though caution must be taken, "a big fear-crazy neurosis" should be avoided. "There isn't really a need for an armed monorail." 
She feels that an escort would not be necessary if people would walk in groups. She suggested that girls not be afraid to ask boys going in their direction from the library or wherever to walk with them. 
Badin Rector reacts 
Badin Hall rector Kathleen Cekanski said that the security escort "must be an available alternative," but also added she doesn't "want fear blown out of proportion." 
Pointing to the example of the Law School, Cekanski expressed the hope that "undergraduate guys will take the responsibility to walk a girl back to her dorm." 
She noted that most people see someone that they know at the library and that they should try to make plans to walk back together. She feels that such cooperation would be an assistance to the co­educational process because it would involve students actively assisting each other . 
Cekanski feels that if a person cannot find a person or group to walk back to the dorm with, a security escort is a good alternative. 


The Notre Dame Baltic Club will sponsor a display of the folk-art ofBaltic the Baltic region in com­memoration of the fifty-fifth an­niversary of Lithuanian in­dependence today in the Library

Club 

concourse. 
The display will feature Baltic 
amber, wood-carvings, leather 
articles, records and books. All
sponsors items may be ordered or pur­chased in the Ievening. Lithuanian Independence Day, recognizing the events of 1918 when

exhibit 

Lithuania overthrew the control of Czarist Russia, is still celebrated despite current Soviet domination of the tiny country. 
The Baltic Club was formed to bring the plight of Lithuania to the attention of the Notre Dame community, and to foster the Lithuanianlculture. Saulius Matas, an officer of the club, stated, "ND country needs the support of in­formed world opinion more, and no country is now being more ignored than is Lithuania." 
Those interested in joining the organization should leave their name and phone number at the exhibit desk. 

the observer Friday, February 16, 1973 

warld 
briefs 
(c) 1973 New York Times 

Washington-The Pentagon announced a significant increase in American air strikes against Communist troop and supply moveme~ts in Laos. Spokesmen said the strikes were a reaction to a substantral rise in the flow of military material from North Vietnam and stepped­up fighting in Laos. 
.. Saigon-South Vietnam threatened to hold up the scheduled release of Communist prisoners of war if the Communists delayed the release of captured government troops. The angry threat from a military spokesman came after the Vietcong reportedly failed to meet a promised deadline for the release of 320 South Vietnamese prisoners. 
Washington-The United States and Cuba signed an agr~ment designed to stop hijacking, but Secretary of State Rogers sard the l lnited States would not ease its diplomatic and economic boycott of Cuba until "the policies and attitudes of the Cuban government t·hanged." The hijacking_agreement. worked out through Swiss in­termediaries. was signed separately in Washington and Havana. 
Washington-President Nixon asked Congress to return agriculture to a free market economy by phasing out crop allotments and farm subsidies that have cost the nation $48 billion in the last dozen years. The plan was the main new proposal in the President's message on the environment and natural resources, which also called for federal standards for drinking-water purity and the extension of the national wilderness to eastern areas. 
Washington-At his first news conference since the recent devaluation of the dollar, Secretary of the Treasury George P. Schultz said the administration wants the price of dollars to drop even more than they have in world currency markets. Schultz refused to disclose a target value, but indicated the hoped-for decline would not involve another formal devaluation. 
an campu• taday 
Fri. 16 IO:oo a.m.-3 p.m ...college presentation, Ia fortune 
12:00 a.m ..grad student discussion, 127 nsh 6.8,10,&12p.m. movie, pocket money, knights of columbus 7, 9, 11 movie, the strawberry statement. eng. aud. 7p.m ...lecture, "from nehru to mrs. gandi," by ryriac 
pullapilly, carroll hall, smc 8p.m. lec;ture,ethnic conflict, irish and american, lib. aud. 
8:00 p.n. pantomine, marcel marceau, o'taughtin au d. smc Sp.m ..ice capades, ace 9p.m. concert, notre dame jazz band combo, Iafortune 8:30p.m ...play, after the rain, washington hall 
Sat. 17 2,6,8, 10,& 12, movie, pocket monev, knights of columbus ~:30 p.m. meeting, student coalition for human life 
amendment, 2-d Iafortune • 7, 9, 11 p.m ...movie, the strawberry statement, eng. au d. ap.m ...movie, 2001, a space odyssey, o'laughlin au d. smc 8p.m.··ice capades, ace 
8:30 p.m ...play, after the rain, wa~hington hall 
Sun. 18 2p.m ...ice capades, ace 
7:30 p.m.··meeting, women's caucus, lib. lounge 8&10 p.m.· movie, citizen kane, eng. aud. 
8:00 p.m ...lectures, role of copernicus, dr. caponigri, and life of copernicus, dr. laporte, lib. aud. 


Campus Roundup 
Irish lecture scheduled 
Professor Eoin McKiernan, President of the Irish American Cultural Institute, will present a lecture entitled "Ethnic Conflict-­
Irish and American"  on  Friday,  
February  16  at  8:00  pm  in  the  
Librar)' Auditorium.  

A well-known Irish-American scholar. McKiernan holds a doc­torate in English from Penn­sylvania State and an honorary degree in literature from the National Universitv of Ireland. 
McKiernan served for thirteen years as chairman of the English Department of the College of St. Thomas in St. Paul. Minnesota, and founded the institute he now heads. He also edits the Institute's quarterly journal of Irish studies-­"Erie". 
The lecture is sponsored by the Notre Dame Celtic Society. 
Copernicus b-day 
The Universitv of Notre Dame will join the South Bend com­munity in commemorating the 500th birthday anninversary of Nicholas Copernicus. the famed Polish astronomer who was the first to propose that the earth and tht-other planets revolved in orbits ili'Otmd the sun. 
The symposium. which is open to the public. is being jointly spon­sored hv the (;eneral Program of Liberal· Studies and the Depart­mentor (;overnment at Notre l>amt•. Indiana University at South Hend and St. Joseph County's Korernik Committee. 
The first session of the sum­posium will be held at 8 ·p.m. Sundav. tFPb. 18) in the audito.rium of the Memorial l.ihrar\' on the Notre Dame eamptls. Dr. Hobert Caponigri, professor of philosophy, will speak on "Tht-World or Copernicus" and Dr. Deidre LaPorte, assistant professor in the General Program of Lih<>ral Studies. will talk on "The Life of Copernicus." 
In the second session. to be held tlw following Sunday, Web. 25) at 8 
p.m. in the West lecture hall in the 1\orthside Building at IUSB. Rev. 1-:rnan McMullnn. professor of philosophy. will discuss "The Copernican Hevolution 3nd It's Significance." and Dr. Kenneth Thibodeau. instructor in the 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the L'niversity of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Sub­scriptions may be purchased lor sa per semester ( 14 per year) from The Ob· server,t [lox Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
(;t>neral Program of Liberal Studies will speak on the "Seientific Work of Copernicus." 
Tht• final session will be at Notre Damt• at Rp.m. on Sunday I March :!) in the Auditorium of the l\h•morial Library when Dr. Boleslaw Sczesniak. professor of history. will discuss ~opernicus' "Impact on the Orient" and Dr. Donald Sniegowksi, associate professor of English. will conlude with "The Copernican Revolution in the Literature of the West." 
Fr. Murray dies 
Hev. Raymond W. Murr<:>y, 
C.S.C.. professor and chairman of the llt>partment of Sociology at the llni\'ersitv of Notre Dame from 1926 to i956. died Thursday af­ternoon Web. 8) in St. Joseph's Hospital. South Bend, after a brief illness. He had lived in Corby Hall on the campus since his retirement from teaching duties in 1968. 
One of the founders of the Amt•rican Catholic Sociological Society. Father Murray had served as a field expedition worker for the American Museum of Natural History and the University of Alaska. An honorary doctor of laws degree. conferred by Notre DamP in August. 1968, cited the priest "whose early research and \\Tiling in anthropology and sociology made him pre-eminent among Catholic social scentists." 
Father l\lurrav served in World War I and received his LL.B 
degree at Notre Dame in 1918. He 
was the recipient of a doctoral 
degree in sociology at the Catholic 
llniversitv of America in 1926 after 
earlier ·studies at Niagra 
l lniversitv. 

Ht> was' born August 18, 1893 in 
Bridgeport. Conn .. and entered the 
llol~· Cross Community September 
Hl. 1920. He made his final 
profession or \'OWS Sept. 20, 1924, 
and he was ordained November 26, 
1!):!-l. 

Sur\'ivors include two brothers, Frank. of Toledo. Ohio. and William. Bridgeport: two sisters. l\lar~· Murray, Bridgeport. and ,\Irs. Laura Powers. Bridgeport. and a cousin. Rev. Edmund J. !\lun·a~·. C.S.C., of Notre Dame. 
Wally Cox dies 
(C) 1972 New York Times 
Bel Air. Calif., Feb. 15--Wally Cox. the bespectacled low-key comic who has been known to television viewers as the meek Mr. Peepers since 1953, was found dead this morning in the bedroom of his rambling home in this exclusive Los Angeles suburb. 
The coronorer's office said that an autopsy, which was still in progress, indicated that the cause of death appeared to be a heart attack. 
Toxicological reports indicated the presence of a therapeutic quantity of plecidyl, a moderately strong sleeping pill, which was found on his bedside table. 
presents 

2001 A SPACE ODYSSEY 
The Ultimate Trip One showing only Sat. Feb. 17 at 8:00 pm Olaughlin Auditorium at SMC Admission only $1 
WANTED 

Ad Salesman for Observer. Must be willing to work 10-20 hours a week and provide transportation. Good pay. Contact Joe Butler at 74 71. 
.JDHN WtJHNE F.INN--MF.IRBRE.T RDD ~RLYLL1R 
5 Films, Feb. 18-22 
Citizen Kane 
19th :The Magnificent Ambersons 
20th: Lady From Shanghai 
Macbeth 
A Touch of Evil 
All Showings in Eng. Aud., 
8 & 10 pm $1, 
CAC Cinema '73 Patrons Free 

r------­
Lampoon ban~shed from Huddle 
~--------------------------~-----------­
Friday, February 16, 1973 the observer 
by Marlene Zloza Staff Reporter 

"We really didn't have any choice," is. the way Brother Kieran Ryan summed up his decision to remove copies of the National Lampoon from the Huddle magazine rack. 
Hyan. assistant vice president for business affairs. stressed that he took the step several months ago, "only with very good grounds" after an offensive.article was brought to his attention. 
"I received several letters from faculty members after one particular article had been brought up in their classes," Ryan explained. "The piece in question was some free verse thing about the Blessed Virgin and the Christ Child." 
1\fter obtaining a copy of the Lampoon, Hyan found the section "absolutely blasphemous and obscene." He circulated a eouple of copies among the University of­ficers. and after conferring with several of tlwm. he ordered the magazine removed from the Huddle. 
"I made the decision because I felt we 
could no longer be an agent for that kind of 
trash. We couldn't continue to support that 
kind of blasphemy at Notre Dame. It con­
tradicts all that we stand for," said Ryan. 
Aecording to the Huddle Manager, Mr. AI 
David. he removed the Lampoon after 
receiving a call from Mr. Edmund Price, 
director of food services. 
"I do try to keep an eye on the magazines, 
hut there are so many I can't read them 
all." David said. 
"I don't know of any regular check by 
anvone in t}le administration either." David 
added that he couldn't say whether any 
Shopping _Center 

HPC coJnmittee meets to outline 
An Tostal 
by Tom McKenney Staff Reporter 

The Hall Presidents Councils committee on An Tostal met for the first time last night and outlined the program for this year's version of the annual Spring t'vent. 
According to Steve Jeselnick, the Chairman of the steering com­mittee. the dates for the three day festival are April 26, 27 and 28. This vear's festivities will follow the same basic format as the past with a free concert on Friday and the traditional "Irish Wake" on Saturday night. 
Jeselnick explained, "The 
popular games and contest will be 
retained with a new event added 
each day." It was indicated that 
Saturday afternoon would feature 
a major new addition to the 

'LET'S GET ACQUAINTED" 
The National Lampoon: "Absolutely 
GRANOLA 

blasphemous and obscene," said 
Brother Kiernan Ryan. Above is this 
We Specialize 
Reg 59~ 
month's cover. magazines had been discontinued before he 
in 29~ with

took over last June. n~ an claimed that this was "definitely an unusual circumstance." 
Natural this Ad
''This is the first time I nave ever done anything like this, and I am not trying to 
1340 MIRACLE LANE -MISHAWAKA, INDIANA 46544 

eensor anyone," asserted Ryan, "but when 
Foods Limit 1 per

something reaches that level, we have a right to protect what this University stands 
person 
for." 
TOWN & COUNTRY Exp. 3·1·7 
259·7283 

games and contests 

weekend. 

One of last year's more suc­
cessful events. the "Bookstore 
basketball" tournament, will be 
repeated this year. Rosters for the 
five man teams will be accepted in 
the next few wt'eks. 

One of the new contests was 
sparked by the popularity of last 
year's Lyons hall elephant 
escapade. Lyons achieved a 
degree of notoriety by entering an 
elephant in a tug-of-war contest. 
This new event will attempt to 
formalize such ingenuity with the 
individual halls competing for the 
most spectacular addition to the 
festivities. 

The traditional Saturday af­
ternoon picnic is already being 
planned in cooperation with Ed~ 
mund Price. Director of Notre 
Dame Food Services. 
At this early date the schedule of 


... AT A BARGAIN RATE PER MONTH
OF ONLY 

$26.50 FOR BOTH 
Typewriters and adding machines at surprisingly low rates, too. 
wfltr. 
2022 South Bend Ave. South Bend, Indiana 272-5482 
One block west of Ironwood Dr. 

Hyan also explained that he had no regular policy for such action, but felt he had to take some action after the matter was brought to his attention. 
Admitting that the Lampoon banishment resulted from a judgment on only one issue, Hyan said the Lampoon had "no positive value and no redeeming qualities at all that we could see." 
The Assistant Vice-President also ex­plained that he is in charge of the Huddle "nnly in a supervisory way," and "not in­volved in day-to-day affairs." 
David outlined that magazine s~ l'mployed by the Huddle. "We --a line brought in by a man from--eire news agency. Mr. Price and I authorize the choices and the agency decides the amount of each. He also picks up all unsold magazines and the 1'1 oney regularly." 
David added that if certain issues sell out 
HOOit$, 
MeN • TUE$ -TKUl -Fll

events is flexible so that additions 
9 AM 5:30 I'M 

can be made. Ideas for activities 
W!D • MT 9 AM 12 NOON 
COMPt.m !lf'I!CI"ACLE

are being accepted by the com­
RoGERS 
SEIVICE

mittee. 
All fH 01.'$

The booklet with the final 
PIIUCRirTIONS HONOII!C 

schedule of events will be made 
Optical 
C..lt

available to students on the Tuesday before the carnival 
289-7809 

weekend. Any student wishing to work with 
the An Tostal committee should 
contact Jeselnick at 7401. 
Our Mid-Winter Savings Event goes on•••and gets better 
Unlike most sales that might run short of values as it progresses ... ours gets bet­ter...we've added many new items to the inventory of savings! Shirts, sweaters, slacks, coats, accessories and more. This savings event is as good today as the first day it started ... and that's great! 
savings of 






DOUBLEKNIT SUITS & SPORTCOATS••• 25% OFF CORD FLARES•••reg. $12 value•••$6.90 
From a very famous maker in 5 brand new 


colors. 
EXCLUSIVE! 
The Campus Shop Way to Buy is exclusive ... you pay one-third in June, one-third in July and one-third in August and you never pay a service or carrying charge of any kind. Do it. 
very quickly. he calls the agency and ob­tains extra copies. "We don't have room for eve,·y new one that comes out, but try to stock the popular ones and the ones assigned for some classes," cited David. "We do have quite a few sports magazines and I have tried to curb that overemphasis." 
The Huddle provides the magazines as a service to the students and makes no profit for their trouble. 
Concerning the return of the National Lampoon, Ryan stated that "if there is a ehange in editorial policy, I suppose we eould reconsider." 
As for the student government selling the magazines. Ryan refused to get involved with that. calling it "a matter for student affairs and not the business office." 
Manager David commented that the Lampoon had been "a good seller and seemed very popular." 
ON THE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAME 

THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
John Abowd  Dan Thornton  
Editor-in-Chief  NEWS: 283-1715  Business Manager  
EDITORIALS: 283-8661  
Don Ruane  BUSINESS: 283-7471  Joe  Butler  
Executive Editor  Advertising Manager  

Friday, February 16, W73 
Zeroing •1n on "Zeroing out" 
The ·poll.!!._lar bureaucratese for rlim ina ting an item from ti--e federal budget while continuing to list it is "zeroing out." In the lastfew weeks it has become increasingly clear that many of the financial aid programs that in­stitutions of higher education have worked with for years are going to be "zeroed out." At least, they will if Richard Nixon has his way. 
There is no doubt that the financial structure of American colleges and universities needs serious revamping. There is also no doubt that the present federal education budget will have a profound effect on both the price struc­
ture and the internal priorities of higher education industry.  the  
Graduate Schools  
The  severe  cutback  in  funds  for  

research institutes, funds which nor­mally find their way into the hands of graduate students, represents a deliberate attempt to bring regular education under the same financial contingencies that currently regulate professional schools. The argument goes like this: There are no social ex­ternalities to graduate education, the benefits accrue directly to the individual student in terms of increased earning potential. Consequently, the student should bear the full cost of education. 
The question of the existence of social benefits from education is difficult to assess but the effects of financing education as though such benefits did not exist are not so difficult to analyze. The net effect is to eliminate grad~ programs which do not increase the e·arning potential of their students. 
Past programs allowed the student to pursue an advanced degree without bearing most of the cost. Projected future programs appear to reverse this relationship. Since most students cannot pay the full cost of education without borrowing, it is clear that fewer students will risk graduate education if it must be mortgaged against future income. This is especially true if the graduate program has no clear past history of improving future income. 
Of course, this approach will improve the market for PhD's. It could scarcely 
daanesbury 
do otherwise since the number graduating will almost certainly decline. The most important question is whether academic professions can survive the transformation from the pursuit of knowledge to the pursuit of income. The prospect of studying literature or philosophy under a professor who con­siders his academic discipline the best way to maximize income is not exactly appealing. Universities do not need a professional community that acts like the American Medical Association. 
Undergraduate Education 
The effect of the Nixon budget on un­dergraduate education cannot be clearly assessed until the exact form of the Basic Opportunity Grant is known. In general, however, the pricing effects of this program are much less disasterous. In fact, if the program is properly executed it could have a very beneficial effect. 
Basic Opportunity Grants are a form of what economists call a voucher system. The principal advantage of this system is that it lets the student, not his parents or the benevolent university granting financial aid, become the purchaser of his education. And if a certain university doesn't live up to the expectations of its students it can expect to have a difficult time persuading those students that they ought to continue spending their Basic Opportunity Grants at a place that is not to their liking. 
The sovereignity of the student is directly limited by the extent to which the voucher system covers his educational expenses. Unfortunately, the number and size of Basic Opportunity Grants that the Nixon administration is likely to fund won't be much help to students from middle income families. In fact, the elimination of the federal student loan program could make Notre Dame students more dependent on parents and university programs than before. In this case, though, the intent is correct even if 
the  execution teristically inept.  promises  to  be  charac.  
John Abowd  
t;~arry  

The Eiraduat:eView 
The GSU 
bill lavat;~e 

Rumblings of disenchantment with the role and function of the only graduate student representative body on campus frequently emerge from within the G.S. U. itself as well as from its constituent body at large. As a G.S.U. representative from Government, I have been particularly critical of the G.S.U. for its apparent insensitivity to fundamental graduate student needs and the absence of creativity in the expenditure of funds. At its February 2 meeting, however, the G.S.U. threatened to involve itself in an area of crucial importance to every graduate student associated with this university. 
Meeting at the request of Father Austgen to discuss the maximum sanctions for parietal and cohabitation violations arising from the Lew­is Hall incident, a conclave of representatives from the G.S.U., Student Bar Association, and Lewis Hall reached a consensus on three points. First,expulsionfrom on-campus housing ought to be the maximum san­ction for parietal and cohabitation violations. Second, only those ac­Lvities which "disturb the goals of the University" merit expulsion from the academic community. Third, a committee was formed to determine what activities constitute a disturbance of University goals and what sanctions, if any, ought to be applied. This column has obtained a draft of the recommendations to be presented by the committee to the G.S.U. on Friday, February 16, which will serve as the focus of debate. These recommendations are: 
I. 
Upon an unequivocal expulsion from and bythe department in which the student is enrolled for an academic violation, and, upon a ratification of that expulsion by the graduate student-university adjudicatory procedures; 

2. upon a felony conviction by the State; 


3. 
upon a finding of guilt of a feloneous offense by the graduate student university adjudicatory procedures; providing, the studen~ is to be ac­corded all o.f the constitutional procedures, rights and protections granted a defendant in a criminal trial by the State; 

4. 
upon a conviction ofa misdemeanor by the State, or , upon a finding that the student is a danger to the University's intellectual and or moral 


standards, one ofthe following penalties may be imposed by the graduate student university adjudicatory procedures: 
a. for a first offense the student should be given a warninng, or required to obtain off-campus housing, or suspended/rom the University; 
b. for subsequent com missions of the same offense, the student may be 

suspended or expelled. Several things about these recommendations and the nature of the 
G.S.U. response to Father Austgen's request deeply trouble me. I have no quarrel with the first three points made in the recommendations but it apl?ears th_a_t th~ committee f~dged on point four--the very quesdon for wh1c~ clanficatwn and expansion made a committee study necessary in the first place. What exactly constitutes a "danger to the University's ...mor~l sta~dards?". Is there a, necessary relationship between one's morality or Immorality and ones scholarly capabilities? 
I suppose a case could be made by setting forth the old twaddle about the nature of Notre Dame's "Christian Community" and the necessity for removing from its midsts any activities which grate on the sensibilities of that community. This line of reasoning notwithstanding, I must confess that as a graduate student !don't feel very much like a member of a 
Christian community. This may or may not be a personal hangup, but I would venture a guess that this feeling is shared by most graduatestudents at du Lac. 
The G.S.U. and its committee's whole response to this admittedly mudd~ed situation has been to miss the point completely. Not only would adoptiOn of the committee's recommendations without substantial changes be tantamount to handing the Administration a blank check to underwrite all future dealings with graduate students vis-a -vis disciplinary matters, it would, more importantly, ignore the larger issue of graduate student status within the so-called "Christian community." 
Fr~m the viewpoint of the Administration, at least, graduate students certamly are perceived as de jure members of the Notre Dame com­munity. De. facto, however, we most certainly are not. For graduate ?tudents, the ~ommunity argument is form without substance. Every Important socia~ and cultural activity at this university is geared toward undergraduate life. Graduate students must get it while they can or shift for them?elves. This is particularly true of the self-governing aspects "f stude~t hfe. None of the graduate hells have formal governing structures of their own and the sum total of their input to the Hall President's Councilis i_nsignificant or nil. The vast majority of off-campus graduate students live a world apart from the campus mainstream. No better ~x~mple of this phenomenon is true than the way in which the Lewis Hall mcident was handled. No buffers exist isolation is the norm. Where is 
the "community·~;~ ' It would_seem necessary that some kind of consistency ought to be ~ollowed With regard to graduate students. Either wear~ a special case Isolated from the rest of the community and should be dealt with in an incremental fashion a~ the need arises. Or, we are an integral part of the J\!otre Dame comm_u':n.t~ to be perceived as equals and enjoying the same rights and res~onsibllib~s as a~l others. If the former is true, we opt for the status quo m our dealmgs w1th the community at large. If the latter is our goal, then the Administration has some explaining to do and the 
G.S.U. had better start asking some serious questions and come up with some hard proposals for integrating graduate students into the Notre Dame community. 
An infrequent opportunit~ to make an impact on this university has presen~ed Itself. The Lew1s Hall caper has raised serious questions regardmg the current status and quality of graduate student life which ex~end ,Car beyond th~ alle~ed violation of the involved student's rights. Fnday s G .S.U. meetmg Will be an open one. 127 Nieuland Science Hall. 
12:00 Noon. 
trudeau the observer 

Night Editor: Joe Abell Asst. Night Editors: Bill Brink and Marlene Zloza Day Editor: Bill Sohn Ad Specs: John Rumbach Ad Layout: Ken Tokolish, Joe Abell Copy Editor: Mike Baum Pictures: Jerome Phillips Typists: Dave Rust. Howard Halle (the sub), Steve 
Roper, Tom Modglin Night Controller: Harry Chung 
J:ditorials printed in The Observer reflect the opinion of Jhe writer on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial comment. 

L______________________________~ 
•

pdq bach--not iust" for mUSIC 
Whp or what is "The Intimate PDQ Bach?" The crowd that packed O'Laughlin Auditorium last night were very satisfactorily rewarded with the answer, ex­cellent musicianship, and a hilarious two-hour program of spoofs on Bach's "oddest of his twenty-odd children." 
For those who have "heretofore not had the opportunity of avoiding these performances," The In­timate PDQ Bach "is designed to bring his music to the general public under the direction of his discoverer and biographer, Professor Peter Shickele. "It will tell you more about PDQ Bach than vou care to know," according to Sh.ickele. 
I I was a collection of classical pieces liberally spliced by Shickele 

to permit karate chops, an oc~ casional boogie or jazz theme emerging, unconventional in­struments, and Shickele's comic touch, and it succeeds quite well, if audience response was any in­dication. 
Through the slapstick, through the diverse props and subtler comic techniques, Shickele's 
musicianship shined. A former
'11' d d s

professor at Jm Iar an war­
· · t k' thh th

I more, ere IS no mls a mg e 
. h d · · t 

mark of an accomp1IS e plams · 
P h h. k b d 11
er aps IS ey oar exce ence 
h d d b th b '11' t 

was overs a owe Y e ri Ian 
· t· · d f t
w1t 1c1sms an very unny s age
· h. h h b
busmess <w IC may ave een 
· t t · t f th

Ihe pnmary en er ammen or e 
· · · th d' )

non-mus1c1ans m e au Ience • 
· d t' ·b th

ut e musiC an execu Ion IS 
11 Sh. k 1 • h' 1 ·f
actua Y IC e e s ve IC e or 
H. · t · 't ·t· 1

Immor. IS vir uosJ y was en tea 
h t. · · d 0 f f
to t e Immg reqmre many 0 his stunts. Who but an ac­complished pianist could leave the keyboard and return without missing a note? 
This is not to downgrade the 
comic element of the program--­
indeed. it's inseparable. Shickele's 
grand entrance set the mood for 
the performance---he arrived via a 
rope thrown from the balcony, 
arrayed in a filthy tuxedo and 
white socks. Besides proving 
himself as a musician, Shickele 
scores as a comedian. 
The spoofs are highly 
sophisticated and imaginative, 
consisting mainly of ghastly musical puns. His "Erotica" variations <Shickele 36 EE> for banned instruments and piano is only one example. A "per­vertimento" on the theme of the last movement in Beethoven's "Eroica," the banned instruments 
consist of a "Windbreaker" (ap­parently cardboard cylinders of various lengths brought together to 
g1·ve the 1·Jlus1•0 n of p1'pes) ·, balloons·, a slide whistle (on which he even manages a trill>·, a "slide windbreaker" <more cardboard cyl1'nders--he must have used a lot of paper towels·, only with a slide attachment th1's ti'me) ·, a "lasso d'amore" (developed, explained Shickele, by 18th century cowboys)·, and the final variation featured the impossible com­binatt'on of the foghorn, the bell, and the kazoo--all played by Shickele at the same time with 
piano accompaniment. 
'l'he show gained a semblance of continuity amid delightful chaos by Shickele's running commentary before each piece, which I suspect was geared to instructing the non-musicians as well as entertaining all with his daffynitions of musical terms. 
"An allemand left," Shickele gravely explained from the "Notebook for Betty-Sue Bach" (S. 13 going on 14), "is an 18th century dance for left-footed people." 
The "corrate" :-"as defined as a 
Japanese corruptiOn of the French courante, and Shickele executes it mumbling the while in surrogate Japanese, grimacing, and delivering karate chops to the piano. Such is Shickele's method for making classical music more palatable. He followed this up (and 
it was a tough act to follow up) with a "Toot Suite " for calliope \see picture).· Consisting 
· 

of three movements-the preloud, the O.K. chorale, and the fuga
· 

vulgaria, the "Toot Suite" IS performed with smoke pouring from the stove attachment, oc­
dcasionally deviating to jazz andinevitable carnival themes, an 

· h

the "fuga vulgaria" is for t ose who recognized it actually as the "Song of the Volga Boatmen" adapted for calliope--another example of Shi~kele's subtle punmanship. 
After intermission Shickele explained that PDQ Bach's music must be absorbed in only small doses by the listener, in order to 
allow the body to develop enough "aesthetic antibodies for it," so the program diverted to a slide show. Shickele showed the process of discovering the rare PDQ Bach manuscripts, a pictorial biography of PDQ's life and times, and close­ups of his letters and musical scripts--in all, an imaginative documentary. 
Shickele first conceived the idea of PD<I Bach while still a student at Juilliard, and the show 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIDIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIODIDOUIIUIIRDIIIDIIUIIIIIIHIHIUHUII 
Junior Parents Weekend schedule 
Friday, February 16 

4:00.. 10:00 p.r11. Registration in the lobby of the Center for Continuing Education. 8:00p.m. The Ice Capades at the ACC. 
8:30p.m. After the Rain in Washington Hall. Saturday, February 17 
10:00 a.m.··1:00 p.m. Registration continues in the lobby of the Center for Continuing Education. 
11: 15 a.m ...1: 00 p.m.  Luncheon in the North and South  
Dining Halls.  
10:00 a.m ... 3:00 p.m.  Career Opportunities in LaFor·  

tune Student Center. 
3:30 .5:00p.m. Presidential Reception in the Center for Continuing Education. 
5:15p.m. Mass in Sacred Heart Church. 
7:3Q..1Q:OO p.m. Presidential Dinner in Stepan Center. Speakers: Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., President of the University; Milo Coccimiglio, President of the Junior Class. 
12:00 a.m. Mass in many dormitory chapels. 
Sunday, February 18 9:30a.m., 10:45 a.m., 12:15 p.m.· Masses celebrated in Sacred Heart Church.. 
9:30.. 10:30 a.m. Communion Brunch in the North Dining Hall. 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIOIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIHIUIInnnnmiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
THE ROMA 
welcomes 

ND·SMC students 
Your host: Frank Anastasio "We'll make you a pizza you can't refuse" 
*DELICIOUS 
ITALIAN FOOD 

*PIZZA 
*LIQUOR 
Dancing lo the sophisticated jazz. rock sounds of Bill Nicks Trio. Open until 4:00am on weekends. 
Happy Hours, 11:30·7:00 daily • 
Special prices for drinks. 
For Deliveries 
Call 234·3258 
211 N. Michigan Ave. 
!)·owntown South Bend (Next to Morris Civic) 

PRE-CAN A 
Notre Dame and St. Mary's students who are interested in participating in this year's Pre-Cana discussions may sign up in the Campus Ministry Office or by phone 
(6536). Registration closes March 7. 
Discussions will be on March 25th, April 
lst and April 8th. 
Sponsored by Campus Ministry 
---l 
Friday, February 16, 1973 the observer 5 
~~~----~~~~--~== 

maria gallagher 
premiered in 1965 at Town Hall in New--York for the public. The show changes a bit from year to year to keep it contemporary, but remains basically the same. 
"I think I reach even the non­musicians," Shickele explained. "I've got a fairly wide range of humor, and try to keep it wide in the show to appeal to the entire audience." 
Offstage, the man is just as entertaining. Shickele recalled during intermission those early days when he struggled through John Thompson's Teaching Little Fingers to Play. <Does that haunt vou, all who can remember the i1ightmare of piano le8sons?) He's come a long way since then, to be sure. But he combines the im­pudent innovation of a Charles Ives, the appeal of a Leonard Bernstein, and the humor of some· old music prof you might find at the University of Northern South Dakota to exploit classical music to its most palatable and enjoyable possibilities. Too bad if you've had the opportunity to avoid it, and did. 
---·­

.. ... l f •. ~ 
! \ 1 .. '-. . ' ·( t . 
-''i''l..y..' W'J"llll'f . ..,.'V'C',,.:~ -· ··' ... ·' --~""---~"' 1 
10 ACADEMY AWAR NOMINATIONS 
includinq 
BEST ACTRESS BEST ACTOR 


THE NOTRE DAME-ST. MARY'S THEATRE 
AFTER THE RAIN 

'JOfiN BOWEN'S absorbing theatrical morality p'3y surrounding events 200 years h,nce--after the rain. · 
February 16, 17, 22, 23, 24 at 8:30 pm Washington Hall Notre Dame campus Students, Faculty, Staff $1.50 · 
Reservations: 284~4176 (Business Hours) 283-7054 (Show Nights) 


j j I 
j 
j 
~ 
I I 
l 
l 
.. 
1 
1 j 
I 
j 
..-------------­
the observer Friday, February 16, 1973
6 

~-~ ~ --~ 
Student govt offers party and activities info 
by Tim Truesdell Staff Reporter 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary~s studerlts seeking parties and social activities can now get this in­formation from Walker Holloway's Student Government office. 
The idea of the program was conceived months ago when Holloway was involved in the Information and Activities segment of Student Gove:-nment. His desire in organizing the new service was to furnish the student with suggestions for lo~ating various parties. 

"I wanted the function of the . office to be a lot more than simply a hidden date concept," Holloway commented. 
The operation of the service is rendered mainly by telephone. Guys are to supply the office with details of the party and should explain the type of desired dress. Girls may peridically check with Holloway to locate gathering which might appeal to them. 
LaFortune counseling center opens to aid minority students 
by Mark Derheimer Staff Reporter 
A Minorities Counseling Center has been established in the basement of LaFortune Student Center to deal with the financial, academic. vocational, or personal problems of all minority group 
nH:•mbers. 
The Center is located on the 
north side of the basement next to 
the Morrissey Loan Fund. The 
idea for a minorities center 
originated with its two staff 
members: Ann Williams and Clark 
Arlington. 
Ms. Williams, a first year law student. serves as the Center's counselor. Second year law student Arlington acts as the ombudsman. 
The purpose of the Center is to 
provide an outlet for counseling of 
minority students besides those 
offered at Psychological Services 
in the Administration building. 
Arlington stated that he and Ms. 

Williams direct themselves "towards the psychological, social, and academic problems of the minority group individuals, being receptive to problems and seeking their remedy." 
Besides counseling the Center publishes a newsletter every two weeks. The Center also has in­formation regarding graduate school scholarships for minority students. and inquiries from in­dustries seeking to employ minority group members. A current project of the Center aims to bring black women to the university during tliis semester for social activities. 
The Center is open Monday through Friday and can be reached at 283-6343. Those students wishing to receive the newsletter should contact the Center to have their name placed on the mailing list. 
All minority students are urged 
to make use of the Center. Any 
ideas or suggestions about the 
scope or goals of the center are 
welcomed by the staff. 

Billy Banner. a special assistant at the Minorities Counseling Center. 
Six year sentence 

NY w-o.man convicted of rape 
by Lacey Fosburgh 
(C) 1972 New York Times 
New York. Feb. I5--A 19-year-old girl who is believed to be the first woman ever convicted of rape in New York State--and possibly in the country--was sentenced to six years in prison today by Supreme Court justice James Leff. 
The girl's male companion was sentenced to 25 years. 
The two were convicted Jan. 17 of holding two 20-year-old girls captive in a Greenwich Village apartment for nine hours and forcing them to perform sexual acts and take LSD. 
Erma Mitchell, of Newport Nl'ws. Va .. and Robert Byrd, 28, were specifically found guilty of two counts each of both rape and sodomy in the first degree and numerous counts of robbery, assault. coercion and unlawful imprisonment. 
The rape charge against Miss 1\litchcll stems from her role as an accomplice in the nine-hour episode that began late the af­ternoon of July 2, 1972, when she met two girls and invited them back to her apartment. 

It ended early the next morning when one yictim managed to escape from the apartment and ran naked. screaming for help, down the street. About an hour later. she returned to the apart­ment with the police and Miss Mitchell and her male companion, Byrd. were taken into custody. 
The two victims, a hairdresser and a waitress from Atlantic City, 
N.J .. who had come to New York for the day, were hospitalized, suffering from physical injuries, one from a broken nose. 
The women. often weeping, testified at length against the defendants during the course of the three-week trial. 
Assistant District Attorney Jack 1\1. Kress explained that although the circumstances surrounding the case and the amount of force and 
RANDALL'S INN DINNER 
Roast Round of Beef 
sliced to your liking 
Two additional hot entrees Potato and vegetable 
Plus: Our own oven hot potato bread 
assorted salads assorted desserts 
Only $3e90 All you can eat 
Served every Sunday 12 to 8 o'clock 
THE PEACH TREE RESTAURANT AT RANDALL'S INN TRAVELODGE 130 Dixieway North South Bend, IN. Phone 272-7373 
brutality involved were ex­ceedingly unusal, legally, the case was quite simple. 
Under the New York state rape Jaws. as they pertain to this case, he said in an interview, had Byrd not been there, the charge against Miss Mitchell would have been sodomy. 
A woman can theoretically be just as guilty of rape as the man involved. Kress explained. · 
"I realize the service 1s opinionated but it help alleviate the idle time." he continued. 
The office has planned to give suggestions on meeting places in various parts of the country over the spring vacation. 
Holloway will attempt to compile a list of motels and bars which are frequented by students in Florida and in Kentucky for the Derby. The Indianapolis 500 Time Trials will also be studied for possible student gatherings. Those persons traveling east for skiing trips are urged to give their plans to Holloway so he can relay the location to others. 
Contact Office 
Further information about the service can be obtained from the Student Government Office or by ealling Holloway at 7417 between the hours of 3:00 and 4:30 p.m. during weekdays. Secondly, he noted that posters describing the program are currently being distributed on both campuses. 


''POCKET MONEY'' 
AT THE 
KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS 
Friday,•February 16 6, 8, 10 pm and midnight 
Saturday, February 17 
2, 6, 8, 10 pm and midnight 
Donation $le00 MEMBERS FREE 
m~t C!tnlnnial Janrakt ifnu.st 

"Enioy a snack or dinner" 
35 Varieties of Pancakes Chicken -Steak -Sandwiches 
REGAL NOTES 
UNDERSTAND PLAYS, NOVELS AND POEMS FASTER WITH OUR NOTES We're new ond we're the bigest! Thousands of topics reviewed for quicker understanding. Our ·subjects include not only English, but Anthro· pology, Art, Block Studies, Ecology, Eco­nomics, Education, History, Law Music Philosophy, Political Science, Ps~chology: Religion, Science, Sociology and Urban Prob­lems. Send $2 for your catalog of topics avai t­
able. 
REGAL NOTES 3160 "0" Street, N. W. Washington, D. C. 20007 
Tel hone: 202-333-0201 
"Let's Get Acquainted" Special 
pemUI.l.e Complete .pub 
Beer-Wine-Champagne-Food
103 Dixieway South 

I0 ,.':~;,:,'!~""''" We al•acl:~;~:"~:;,~'':pe:Jials ~-~J~~~~;,;,~~~J~;;~ . 
~ Jumbo Burger and Schooner of C\\ ·,I 0~ Old Milwaukee 
I 0iJ'fl $le00 ~Q> I
w i I h I h is co u p o n =C Lim iI: 1 per person Ex p ires 3. 1 . 7 3 ,..$ ! 
'WII -IBI............._,IIIIIIIl"'*MMIIIKIINIU~ 

Friday, February 16, 1973 the observer 
Mecca declares his 'day: seeks some points 
by Don Ruane friends pop flash bulbs while he Before you make any rash Executive Editor awaits the gun. judgments. consider his l\1l•cca. who figures that the U.S. background. This is his third year 
Chris Mecca will do most women's record holder in the on the team; he practices 14 hours anything to score points for the butterfly could beat him by 35 a week which means he swims swimming team. and has even ~·ards. has declared Saturday as .J,OOO yards a day and 400,000 yards eonsidered shocking his opponents Chris Mecca Day to psych his a vear which totals more than one in the 200 yard butterfly this teammates and the fans for the 2 million yards of Rockne water in Saturday by doing a modified p.m. contest in the Rockne Pool; his career; and he admits he is the n•rsion of a recent floor show in a and to encourage himself to boost slowest guy on the team. 1wighborhood tavern. his own recorrl setting point total. 
Why would anyone like Mecca go 
The senior swimmer has con­Why is Mecca so desperate to out for the team in the first place'!
sidered revealing the 192 pounds score points'! The answer is "My g1rl told me she was tired of that comprise his rotund. 6'2" simple. After 10 varsity races in the spare tire around my stomach, 
frame after he steps onto the the outside lane, he has yet to win a after more than one million
hut 
starting block. but he will probably race. let alone finish in the top yards I've only lost four pounds,"
select a more conservative ap­three and bring home a point or MPcca explains.proach of psyching out his op­two. He has finished sixth twice, J<'inally his day of glory came. As 
ponents such as having a group of fifth six times, and fourth twice. 
hl' stepped onto the blocks as an alternate,the team. then the crowd hurst into "MECCA, MECCA, 1\H~CCA;" and together they cheered through the first 100 yards. and the second, and finally they cheered him as finished the and Halls were over­first leg of his pointless career in 
0-C info published 
by Jim Ferry Farley Staff Reporter crowded. The students forced out last place. of those halls will be distributed in Mecca has adjusted to his fate by The Hall President Council other halls. thus a certain number coining several expressions about distributed lists of available off 
of students will have to leave their his saga. His favorite is, "I've always got the last minute tocampus facilities Wednesday to all halls to make way. 
myself." expression,
the hall presidents and rectors. Baranowski added, "The sooner Another 
J<'or advice. the names and people make decisions the easier which has several variations, numbers of several off campus it's going to be, because no arose from his rationale for 
failure. "I usually go out kind ofstudents are available in the in­decision can be made until we formation lists. 
know how many students will J<'red Baranowski. president of volunteer. We're hoping to make 
the council. commented. "We don't decision by spring break, at least Guest lecturer want to force people off, but if the that's what we're hoping." current trend continues. we'll have .1 uniors are especially en­
to force off campus about 100 couraged to volunteer, according 
to give speech
to Baranowski. since they The housing crises began when it probably would adjust more \\'as decided that Breen Phillips easily. 
students." 
on mathematics 
Success predicted The Department of Electrical Engineering at the University of ~otre Dame will present the second lecture of its Spring
Mock stocks available 
ColloquiumFriday. (Feb. 16) at 3:30 
p..n. in room 303 of the Cushinghy Bill Sohn Tlw players who re...Jize the llall of Engineering.
Staff' Reporter largest profits will share in $150 in Dr. Hui J.P. deFiguieredo,Thirt\' ;\;otre Dame and Saint prizes dona ted by Thompson. 
professor of electrical engineering 
;\\ar~··s.stwients and faculty joined l\kKinnev and A.uchincloss. lnc. 
;md mathematical sciencesat Rice tlw Fina1 t' Club's Mock Stock ,\11 transactions will be handled l !nivt'rsitv in Houston. Texas. will
:\larkl't in the first two days of h~ an IBl\'1 :l70 computer. John 
speak on the "Generalized
al'liYih. Finnt•gan. a ~enior finance major, Smoothing of Spline and Its Ap­()n•r .JOO '1ersons participated pn•pan•d the program. 
nlication Iden­
la~t Y<'ar and .lim Wald. chairman Al'COI'ding to Finnegan. the to Svstem 
iification." · 
ol ttil' 1\lock Stock 1\larket com­program is foolproof. If a person Hui rl'ceived his Ph.D. frommittl'e. fpels that it "looks great l111\·s more stock than he has 
1\\assachu~etts Institute of
for succe~~ .. th1<> vear. The event n~·dit to cover. the program 
Tl't'hnology and at present is
continues until !\larch !J. :1d_iusts his purchase to the ,·isiting professor in theTlw :\lock Stock Market is open :11nn11nt he can afford. 
l\lathematics Research Center at to all students and faculty. Wald Finrwgan also said that the thl' trni\'ersitv of Wisconsin. He is thinks that severdl business ~lock Stock 1\larket ;m authority 'on the application of
proi'Pssors will play the market. will be "the most realistic" in splines to rna them a tical systemsFor a onP dollar fee a player is thl' fiYe-~·ear series. Commission theory and has taught at Purduegi\'(•n $20.000 in credit to buy and rates charged and prices used l'niYPrsity and in Portugal.
sl'll stocks. Anv stock listed on the will be the same as those used in Tlw public is cordially invited to,\nwrican or ·.New York Stock the actual markets. 
:11teml.
l•:xchangps can he used. 
,\11 hu~·ing and selling is done 1war thP globe in the Business . \dministration Building. From 10 am to 12am and I pm to3pm. 
Acareer in law ••• WithOUt laW SChOOl.
IT'S 

When you become a Lawyer's Assistant.
TIME YOU 
you'll do work traditionally done by lawyers -work which is challenging, responsible and intellectually stimulating. Lawyer's Assistants are now so critically needed that 
HERD 
The Institute for Paralegal Training can offer you a position in the city of your choice
Big news in big eating. 
-and a higher starting salary than you'd
Great steaks and little 
expect as a recent college graduate. Here
old prices. Round-up the 
is a career as a professional with financial 
gang. Herd the family. 
rewards that increase with your developing expertise.
We want EVERYONE to enjoy steak! 
If you are a student of high academic standing and are interested in a legal career. come speak with our representative.
PONDEROSA 
Contact the Placement Office. A representative of The Institute will visit your campus on: 
STEAK HOUSE 

TUESDA~FEBRUARV20
52627 U.S. 31 N. 

NOTE: If the above date is inconvenient for you. please call or wrile The Institute for information. 
and 

Town & Country The Institute for
Shopping Ctr. 

, Paralegal Training 
~pen 11 A.M. to 9 P.M. Dail~ 13th floor. 401 Walnut St.. Phila.. Pa. 19106 ~ Fri. and Sat. to 10 P.M. ~ (215) WA 5-0905
l 

fast with the pack, but the last hundred yards, it seems like a grizzly bear jumps on my back." 
Hence the expression "don't get the bear." or "don't let the bear get vou." 
In spite of his consistently poor showing by most standards, Mecca feels he makes a contribution. "Whenever they (other swim­mers l are down in the dumps they challenge me and beat me and feel better." As long as the others know they are not the slowest, Mecca feels he is helping the team. He also helps out at meets. 
Mecca. despite his deep voice, can be softspoken when he speaks sincerely. He gets that way when he speaks of two things connected with swimming. One is the team, coach and timers. Of the coach, Mecca says, "Coach Stark has 
always given me as much time as 
he has given anybody else on the 
team. and I've never brought home 
a point for Notre Dame. That is 
u·hy I really admire that guy." 
The other thing is the Dolphin Club, which has been in existence since 1962. Two days f'ach week the swimmers, and any other volun­teers. go down to Logan Center 
where they teach water skills to ·those children whose retardation is 
not too severe to prevent them from learning, and where they help the rest to at least enjoy thtm­selves. Come out and 
see Chris Mecca on his day, and give the Dolphins a cheer too. 


it's R·O·A·R·I·N-G into Downtown South Bend 
TONIGHT 
McQUEEN/MacGRAW THE GETAWAY =oo prr.

1 MATINEES SATURDAY AND SUNDAY 
MAIN CHURCH SUNDAY MASSES 

5:15 pm Sat. Fr. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 
9:30 am Sun. Fr. George Wiskirchen, C.S.C. 
10:45 am Sun. Fr. James Shaughnessy 
12:15 pm Sun. Fr. William Toohey, C.S.C. 
"Evensong" vespers at 4:30 pm Sunday. Confessions are heard before each weekday mass and from 
7:00 to 7:30 pm Monday through Saturday. 

CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED New age of decadence invites you to THE HUDDLE BALL, Friday, GRADUATE'S WIFE BABYSITS. February 16, 9:00-? LIVES NEAR CAMPUS. CALL 287-1222. There will be a combined meeting 
of the GSU, SBA, Women-'s Rights Need ride to Lauderdale, Association & Student Members HollywoodorMiami. $. Ken3679. of lhe ASAC, to further discuss the 
proposed Sanctions of the Need ride to Wooster, Feb. 23, call Graduate Disciplinary Code on 1360 or 1259. Friday, 12 noon. Feb. 16 in 127 
NSH. All grads welcome. 2quys need ride to Miami Fla. on March 7. Will share driving ex­Super sale at PANDORA'S 
penses. Call Pete 8810. BOOKS Grand Opening Special . 
so percent off on all used books Need ride: to L.A. spring break. t11is Friday, Saturday & Sunday. Will share expenses. Call Bill New store at South Bend Ave. & 6832. SJ. Louis · Across from Rocco's. 
LOST AND FOUND PERSONALS 

Lost: black umbrella with brown Atilia: sticks and st.,nes will 11andle in South Dining Hall-West, break our bones, but snowballs Wednesday. Call 7077, reward. will never hurt us. 
The Boy.:::.s_______ Lost: ladies gold watch. Great 
Denny Smith . Please come homesentimental value. Reward. Call 

The family

5434. 
Amy: you're as cute as a bug'sLost: part collie, part shep. All car.

I an mate dog. Please call 233-3893 or 7471. Reward. 
T.L. ------­

David, I liked lhe smock a lot. Lost Dark frame glasses, call 
Thanks!!! 8626. Love, Mary 
NOTICES Joe Tulane: SORRY Ukraine Karen 

Saturday 2-17 CHRIS MECCA. DAY at the Rockne Pool . 2 pm. 19 years ago a bundle of joy came Purdue See the Notre Dame into our lives · Aquatic Spectacular · and watch Happy Birthday Ellen! Cl1ris lose! 
Fclicitations!! Doug and Patti. · 

Guess who THE GAY AWARENESS 
FOR INFORMATION ABOUT 
To The -Ln-'a-,.-,m-an-at-U~NM-: This is COMMUNITY, CALL 7789 W-Th· betler than a Valentine anyway, F.810pm. riqhl? Me 
A new nerd named Janet or JudeA BETTER CHOICE IS LIFE 

Tried lo neck :...,ith some nerds in the

FOR THE UNBORN CHILO nude.
CONTACT BIRTHRIGHT. INC 
Now the novice was nervousIN SOUTH BEND, P.O BOX 824 But her bodice not curveless.

OR CALL 289-1034. 
And she curdled !heir nurdles but 
ll:lOd.

Before you buy a diamond learn 
all the facts, it may save you a Person who "professed love for David Rust" Wed. on WSND..
qreal deal. Call James 3118. 
Please, 7224. 

JUNIORS: Signuptodayforyour 
FOR SALE

yearbook porlraits today in 
La Fortune Student Center, room 
Koss PR0-4A Stereo Head

2C. between 9·1 & 2-6. 
Pi1Dnes. Excellent condition. Call J n 

the observer Friday, February 16, 1973 

Irish blow lead, tourney chances versus Fordham 
by Vic Dorr Charles answered with a 16-Novak's rubbed-out basket, and he footer at the 2:11 mark, and hit the front end of his bonus
Darryl Brown's jump shot from Douglas hit another from 20 feet to tosses. slicing the Irish lead to one,the lane with nine seconds· pull the Rams within two, 69-67. li9-68. Brown missed the secondremaining last night capped a late ND's efforts received another free throw, and with 20 secondsl<'ordham rally and gave the Rams blow just seconds later--with 1:34 remaining, Novak pulled in the a dramatic 70-69 basketball vic­left--when John Shumate was rebound. But "Goose" never got a tory over Notre Dame. 

whistled for an offensive foul--his firm hold on the ball, and he lost it The basket--the sixth of the night fifth personal--and had to leave the out of bounds.
for the 6-7 sophomore--ended a ball game. The Rams missed a The Rams in-bounded, andhectic final min•Jte of play, but the shot to tie the game following worked the ball until they foundHams had been setting the stage Shumate's disqualification, and, Brown with shooting room at thefor Brown's game-winner since the with 1:04 remaining, intentionally left side of the lane. He sank his:l:OO mark. when they began fouled Brokaw in an attempt to shot with nine seconds showing onwhittling away at an eight-point regain possession. the clock. and the Irish im­Irish lead. 
Brokaw missed the front end of mediately called time-out.
Gary Brokaw netted a jumper his bonus free throws, but Gary ND was unable to do anything infrom the lane near that 3:00 mark Novak pulled down the rebound the final seconds of the game,to give ND a 67-59 spread, but the and kept the ball in play for the however. Don Silinski took an in­Hams, relying on their sharp­Irish. Novak scored what seemed bounds pass from Dwight Clay,shooting backcourt, refused to to be a game-deciding basket drove the length of the floor, andfold. Sophomore Walt Douglas and moments later--when he tipped in a missed a desperation heave justsenior Ken Charles hit back-to­missed shot by Don Silinski--but before the buzzer.

hack 20-footers to make it 67-63 the bucket was disallowed because The one-point loss ended Notrebefore Gary Novak tossed in a of offensive goal-tending. Dame's five-game winning streak, hook shot to pad the Irish lead back 
but it left the Irish with an 11-10
Brown was fouled followingto six. 
slate and virtually eliminated Despite a 21-point effort by guard Dwight Clay, the Fighting Irish them from any post-season con-dropped a 70-69 decision to Fordham last night in Madison Square Gar­sideration. For the Rams, who den. ­
Irish sextet visits 
brought an 11-10 ledger into Dwight Clay, and pushed ahead of Heyward led Fordham's first Madison Square Garden, the game the home team with 0:40 showing half scoring with 10 points, and was also a streak-snapper. It uas until intermission, when Silinski finished with 14 overall. Charles Fordham's first victory in its last dropped in the first of two free and Brown shared game-high
vengeful Spartans 
seven outings. throws. "Slink" tallied another honors for the Rams, each The two teams battled on even charity toss 23 seconds later, finishing with 15 points. 6-8 center "Hopefully, we can stop Notre terms throughout the first half, giving the Irish a 37-34 spread, but Paul Griswold was also in double
by Jim Donaldson 

Dame's John Noble, Ian Williams, with the largest spread of that the Rams cut that lead to one at the figures with 10 points.
Sports Editor 

and Eddie Bumbacco," Bessone period being a 26-20 Fordham lead. horn. when Frank Heyward The Irish were led by Clay, who 
Notre Dame's hockey team can said with concern. Few clubs have The Irish erased that margin on a canned a running hook shot from 40 finished with 21 points. his best regain fourth place in the WCHA been able to do that this season, bucket by Brokaw and two by feet away. scoring effort of the season. standings this weekend if it can 
however. accomplish something it's never Bumbacco is the WCHA's topdone before---win a series against goal scorer (25) and point-getter 
Duke next cage opponent
Michigan State in East Lansing. <49) and has racked up the The Irish handled the Spartans amazing total of 68 points overall by "Lefty" Ruschmann Melchion· ·.i ·s running mate in the five points per game.with ease in an earlier meeting this (35-33), already an Irish single Visiting basketball clubs have backcourt i~ Kevin Billerman, a 6-2 
The Irish and Blue Devils have

often found "home cooking" un­
season, drubbing Coach Amo season record. Williams' league sophomore who has hit for nine played on four previous occasions, 
Bessone's sextet, 8-5 and 13-5, and season statistics are equally palatable on the home courts of points per game. Billerman, who with Duke sweeping all three,
three weeks ago in the ACC. But Atlantic Coast Conference schools. 
impressive. The.husky right wing has had foul problems, is often including, most recently, a 73-67they're 0-4 in past games at State's The Duke Blue Devils, despite an 
has 21 goals and 22 assists in the spelled by soph Bill Sue, a 6-5 triumph over Bob Arnzen and Co. 
raucous Ice Arena. WCHA and 26 goals and 24 assists unspectacular record of 11-9 (4-4 in conference play> have been un­guard who averages just under at Chicago Stadium in 1968. 
on the year. Noble, Notre Dame'sThe Spartans rebounded from 
beatable at home, winning all
all-time career scoring leader, has their losses to the Irish by 
seven encounters in Durham's
accounted for 47 points this season sweeping a four-point series from Wrestlers list two on road
Cameron Indoor Arena, including
(16-31), 38 of those coming against Michigan but, last weelrend, league competition. a recent 85-81 ambush of Notre Dame's wrestling squad Drake." said the coach of the 6-8M.S.U. wasagaina double victim, 
losing four key points at "Notre Dame has a large, nationally-ranked Maryland. The faces two more tough opponents on Irish. "Drake has a super team 
Devils' home win streak stands at the road this weekend-Akron and and its losses have come onlyWisconsin I Notre Dame, which strong, fine skating club," Bessone 17 games over two seasons, a archrival John Carroll. But coach against nationally ranked teams."
took a pair from Colorado College llcknowledged. 

statistic which may cause Notre Terry Mather is more optimistic
last weekend. 8-3 and 8-6 has won The Bulldogs dominated the
His own team has fallen from Dame coach "Digger" Phelps about the coming series than he
11 of its last 13 league games and action until AI Rocek's 22nd
first to fourth in recent weeks but some concern tomorrow night. was about team's chances
his

has 34 title points, just one less straight win at heavyweight
the veteran coach isn't about to when his Irish invade Carolina. against Drake.
than the Spartans. The Irish are averted a shutout and made the
push the panic button. If -Duke's hex over visiting
14-8 in the WCHA 06-12 overall) "We knew it was going to be like final score Drake 39, Notre Dame 
"We've been a ballclubs isn't enought to throw a
and M.S.U. is 12-6-1 08-8-1 on the in little slump moving a mountain wrestling :l. 
scare into opponents, then its big
after a great start," he said, "but I
year\. The Irish had little trouble the
felt we played as well as we could front line, which averages over •
"This is an extremely important have up at Wisconsin. We skated 6'8" 'per man may do so. The Blue Trackmen 1n night before. beating MacMurray series for us, and for them, also," Deveils' forecourt trio is headed by :l:H3.
hard and moved the puck well. I
said Notre Dame coach "Lefty think we're coming back to our Allen Shaw, a 6'10" senior center, "It seems every team we faceSmith. "If we win both games. I 
early season form." who leads the club in rebounds, this year is having one of its best
CCC meet

think that we'll be assured of a spot hauling in eight per game, seasons Mather
over ever," com­
in the top four. If we split, we may The Irish hope that Bessone's while an of 10 Coach Don Faley will take the
scoring average mented. Akron and John Carrollwrong about that. but they're sure
have to go undefeated the rest of points per outing. Last year, Shaw Notre Dame trackmen on the road will be no exceptions. Akron. Notre
the way in order to get at least one he's right when he says, "With was conference runnerup in again this weekend to compete in Dame's opponent l<'riday night, is playoff series on home ice." fourth place at stake, this is going rebounding and he earned a place the Central Collegiate Conference currently 7-l with a match later
to be an extremely tough series." on the aii-ACC second team. Championship meet at Ypsilanti,
"I'm sure we'll go up there and this week against Kent State. John 
see an inspired State hockey .Joining Shaw up front are 6-7 Michigan. Carroll. the National Catholic !<•am." Smith continued. "We Natators host junior Chris Redding and 6-8 soph Hurdler Tom McMannon hopes Tournament Champions, are 11-1. beat them handily last time and Bob l<'leischer. Redding currently 
to finish better than he did last 
"Akron is a tough team with four 

that's bound to have a distasteful leads the Duke scoring parade year when the Irish captain fell outstanding wrestlers," Matherpffect on them. We expect to have Boilermakers <18.8 ppg). hitting on close to 58 per during the semi-final meet. But contends. "In order to stop thisour work cut out for us." cent of his field goal attempts.
Notre Dame's swimmers return McMannon will be facing some 
squad we must beat at least one of

Flesicher has improved steadily
A balanced scoring attack, from a successful road trip to face stiff competition in this 47th CCC these four men." Two of the Akron 
over the season, pulling down 15
featuring 12 players with 18 or Purdue Saturday in the Rockne meet. Among the many fine en­wrestlers especially worry
rebounds in recent Duke wins over
more points, has kept the Spartans Pool at 2 p.m. The Irish are hoping trants are Jerry Tinker of Kent Mather-Mike Turnbole <158) and
Mayland and Wake Forest.
ncar the top of the WCHA all for a reversal of last year's 39-84 State and Wayne Franklin of Jim Robinson <142). Both have
Overall. he averages 10.3 points
season and gives opposing result at West Lafayette. Drake. undefeated records and are
and 7.7 rebounds per contest.
defenses plenty to worry .about. Under the direction of coach possible national title contenders.
Sophomore Pet Kramer serves as Last year. as a freshman, ND'sDennis Stark, the Irish turned in
Freshman cent~>rSteve Colp and the Devils' front line substitute, Mike Gahagan finished third in the The Irish had a chance to see
their finest performance of the
juni'>r wing Mark Calder lead the scoring 6.4 ppg in spot action. 1000-yard run at this meet. And the many of the John Carroll grapplers 
year last Saturday, registering
M.S. U. point parade with 40 Not all the Bue Devils' strength Wisconsin prep standout has been in the Catholic tournament three
their fastest times of the season in
apiece. Colp has knocked in a is concentrated under the boards, improving steadily this year. He weeks ago, wrestling five of them 
team-leading 24 goals and Calder seven of 13 events as they beat St. however. Notre Dame's backcourt a mile forran 2:58=~~ split the with only Rocek winning, a 4-3Bonaventure, 71-42. Senior John
has contributed 16. pair of Dwight Clay and Gary distance medley squad last decision over heavyweight Ed
Sherk lbroke his own record in the
All-American defenseman Bob Brokaw figure to have a tough weekend at the Michigan State Floyd <8-2).
1000-yard freestyle with a time ·of
Boyd (5-34-39) is right behind that evening trying to contain Duke's Relays which Coach Faley called "We've upset John Carroll two
10:38.5, while sophomore Jim Kane
pair and senior right winger explosive backcourt ace, Gary "one of the finest splits I have ever seasons in a row, so you knowset meet standards in the 100 and
Michael Chaurest is next, with 35 200-yard freestyle events. Melchionni. A 6-3 senior guard, seen." Gahagan will join Mike they'll be screaming for our 
points on 20 goals and 15 assists. Melchionni is rated one of the top Housley. Joe Yates and Jim Hurt 
blood," says Mather. The history

The Boilermakers, members of performers in the conference. In to give the Irish a strong
State's biggest problem has been the tough Big Ten conference, of the series is, indeed, on Notre
addition to leading the Blue Devils representative in the two-mile
in the nets, where Ron Clark, Dame's side. The Irish are 4-1
currently stand 9-5. I in assists and free-throw per­relay as well as the distance
despite his 4.17 league goals­"They've recorded better times against Carroll and have never lost 
centage, Melchionni also 1 is medley.
against axerage, has been than we have in every event thus in Cleveland.
considered one of t'.Je toughest
something less than outstanding. far this season," commented "Things look real good and the Notre Dame freshman Dave
defensive players in the con­
The Spartans have yielded 42 goals Stark. "Going up against someone squad has come alive with the Boyer <142) will have a chance for 
ference. A 16 ppg scorer. \Second
in their last six games and will of Purdue's caliber should toughen responsibility to perform," asserts revenge when he is pitted against 
best on the ballclub, Melchionni
have their \hands full trying to our program and lead to improved Faley. "We will have to shore up Dave Weir, Carroll's all-time
exploded for 39 points in Duke's
improve on that showing against times." our field events and with a little winning wrestler. We'N, un­
upset of Mayland and followed that
the high-scoring Irish, who have The Irish enter the meet with a 6-practice this week we will have a defeated in 14 matches this season, 
performance by tallying 22 in a
heelliaveraging!7.7 goals per game 3 record, 2-1 at home and 4-2 on the couple of very respectable relay beat Boyer in the finals of the
winning effort against Wake
in their last 10 <!_Utings. road. squads." Catholic tourney.
Forest. 






