


The Israeli war machine on full of­
fensive drove most of the Syrian army off 
the Golan Heights on the northern front of 
the Middle East war Monday and began 
"the Destruction of the Egytpian army" in 
the Sinai Desert to the south , the Israeli 
high command announced. 
"We are now in the middle of the battle," 
said Lt. Gen David Elazar, Israeli armed 
forces chief of staff. "We continue our 
counter-attack, we shall continue it 
tomorrow and we shall break and destroy 
completely all the attacking forces." 
In the United Nations, Egypt reported 
the first Israeli aerial attack of the war 
against an Egyptian city-Port Said on the 
Mediterranean coast. 
Egyptian Foreign Minister Mohammed 
Hassan El-Zayyat took the floor in the 
U.N. General Assembly to announce the attack on the ancient seaport at the nor­thern end of the Suez Canal, breaking into the world body's annual policy debate. Arab military communiques also reported the shelling of · Port Said. 
A meeting of the U.N. Security Council , called into emergency session at the request of the United States to consider how to end the fighting in the Middle East was postponed from 3:30 p.m. EDT to 6 
p.m. EDT. Arab communiques continued to sound a 
victorious note despite tlie'srael offensive. 
Arnong other Arab claims was the capture 
of Qantara East on the East Bank of the 
Suez Canal. 
On the third day of the "War of the Day of Judgment," Elazar said Israel had 
----------------------~---------......., 

st. mary's community 
destoroyed "many hundreds of tanks" on both fronts in an all ;out drive against the two Arab armies which invaded across the Golan Heights and the Suez Canal on Saturday, the Jewish Yom Kippur Day of Judgment. 
Elazar said Israeli forces had "not yet" crossed the Suez Canal into Egypt. He would not say whether they intended to cross the canal, whether they had already crossed the Syrian border or if they in­tended to march on Cairo and Damascus. 
But he said pointedly that "cease-fire lines are not marked on the terrain" and Israel would attack "wherever it is necessary." 
"The troops are moving from our territories against the other side," he said. "We shall see in the next days the direc­tions and the results." 
In Cairo, a communique reported Egyptian armed forces has pushed their advance into the Sinai Desert east of the Suez Canal and recaptured· the Israeli­occupied city of Qantara East. 
The communiques said the Egyptian flag had been raised over Qantara East, which is the second largest city in Sinai. 
"It is planned that the (Arab) ad-. ministration of Sinai will move to the liberated city in the shortest possible time," the communique said. 
The communique said Egyptian forces had captured 30 Israelis in Qantara, "the only Israelis who survived in the city." "The egyptians stiiJ in the city were overjoyed and rushed to welcome brother Egyptians fighting for the honor of their country," the communique said. 
SU activities will continue 
Staff to remain until at least Mon. 
By Kurt Heinz Staff Reporter 
Despite the uncertain status of the Student Union Director, all Student Union activities scheduled for this week will go on as planned. 
All of the Union staff members who resigned are remaining on their jobs pending a final decision on the dismissal of student union Director Jim Rybarczyk, which is due next Monday, October 11. 
The film "Sex Madness" scheduled for tonight and this weekend's Midwest Blues Festival are still on the agenda. Student Union Associate Director Pete Bohlander also indicated that there is a good chance that beer and potato chips will be served on the shuttle bus Friday. 
The upcoming concerts with Paul Simon, Nov. 3, and Graham Nash, Nov. 10, will also remain unaffected, as contracts have already been signed. 
Acting Student Union Director Drew Costarino is making no plans for running the Union until a final decision is reached by Student Government and by those who resigned. Costarino had previously served on this year's Orientation Committee. 
Costarino said that many of the staff members are having second thoughts about leaving their posts and that business is going on as usual this week. 
"I think that there's a lot of rethinking going on," he said. "Everything happened in two days. What happened was an emotional and gut reaction. Right now we are in a position of rethinking and negotiation. The people up there <Student Union)wantto be there." 
"I don't think that it will be as dramatic as everyone thinks. I hope things work out well. I just don't want the students to be screwed," Costarino added. 
A$sociate Director Bohlander said that whether he resigns depends on the decision of the Board of Commissioners next Monday. 
"Nobody wants to resign," he said "We're working for the students, but if it comes down to not being able to function effectively I'll have to resign." 
Bohlander was hopeful that communication would improve this week. Cultural Arts Director Kip Anderson who is in charge of the Blues Festival this weekend, is also having second thoughts about resigning. 
"I have been a part of the . Cultural Arts Commission for three years," he said. 'It has been a valuable part of my life that I wouldn't want to lose." 
"I reacted to Student Government's actions and on prin­ciple," continued Anderson. "It seemed like the thing to do at the time. However, I must also consider my responsibility to the students." 
Anderson feels that right now everyone is trying to calm down and compromise. He commented that the Observer blew the issue "entirely out of proportion." That resulted in the emotional reaction of both sides, he said. 
Though the entire Student Union is now uncertain as to its status, business is going on as usual and so far Student Union Activities have not been affected.
, 
~~~~, 
·~:. 
Acting SU Director Drew Costarino: "We are now rethinking ­and renegotiating." (Photo by Mike Budd) 
I I I 
I 
~ 
~ 
2 
the observer Tuesday, October 9, 1973 
warld 

briefs 
WASHINGTON-President Nixon Monday contacted Soviet Leader Leniod I. Brezhnev to enlist his help toward obtaining peace in the Middle East. Secretary of State Henry Kissinger spoke with Chinese officials also in the hope of broadening support to end the war. The White House said Nixon contacted Brezhnev Sunday, but gave no indication on how the Soviet leader ~esponded. 
WASHINGTON-Senate leaders, drawing quick endorsement from Secretary of State Henry Kissinger, Monday pushed through a resolution calling for peace in the Middle East and withdrawal of Egyptian forces back across the Suez Canal. The resolution believed to reflect the administration's position was inroduced by Senate. Democratic Leader Mike Mansfield and Republican Leader Hugh Scott and passed be voice vote with little debate. 
LO:\DON -Two supersonic MIG fighters forced a British Overseas Airways BOAC jumbo jet to land at Aden Monday where the plane and 253 passengers and crew were held for three hours before being allowed to continue a flight from London to Johannesburg, BOAC officials said they did not know the nationality of the Russian-built fighter planes,but reports from Lebanon said they were from South Yemen. Diplomatic sources in Beirut said the Boeing 747 jet allegedly flew into South Yemen's restricted airspace. 
WASHINGTON -The U.S. Chamber of Commerce joined the National Association of Manufacturers Monday in urging President Nixon to order an immediate end to wage-price controls. The two national business organizations thus joined the Natioal Association of Wholesaler-Distributiors in asking that the President eliminate all economic controls. In what was termed an "unusual joint letter" the two groups urged Nixon to ..end the entire wage-price control program prom ply without prior notice·,and without sector-by sector phase-out: 

an campus taday 

9:00am -4:00pm -tixket sales, basketball and hockey season tickets, second floor ticket windows, ace. 
7:30pm -lecture, business series, choosing your insurance com­pany and beginning your program: stock companies mutual companies: purchasing life insurance and annuities, evaluating various types of coverage, william e. miller, carroll hall, made leva. 
7:30pm -lecture, 'l'avare' from moliere, mr. m. marcy, smc language dept., stapleton lounge. 
7:30 
pm -duplicate bridge, flanner card room 

7:30 
pm -lecture, nick kowalski, ex-convict and alcoholic, stanford hall chapel 


8:30pm -drama, nd-smc theatre, shakespeare's richard the third, $1.50 for students, faculty and staff, o'laughlin auditorium. 

at nd-smc 

Arab oil cut-off expected 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -The Mideast war is likely to lead to Arab attempts to shut down oil shipments to Europe, deepening an already serious heating oil crisis in the United States this winter, Sen. Henry M. Jackson, D-Wash., said Monday. 
Jackson said "I am sure the Arab countries will make some kind of move" to cut off oil supplies within the next few days, possibly on . the ·initiative ofo._ I,.ibyan . strongman ~.Col. 
Moammar Khadafy. 

"The reason I say that," he 
said, "is that I expect Israel 
will completely frustrate the 
military moves by Syria and 
Egypt. Out of this will come a 
countermove to punish the 
United States. 

"They will try to punish Western Europe, and this will have an adverse effect on U.S. heating oil supplies because we are counting on large imports 
of l:leating oil from Western Europe this winter." 
Knaked Klunker cancels act because of pressures 

by Gary Allietta Staff Reporter 
The Knaked Klunker can no 
longer share his body with 
Fighting Irish football fans. In an 
interview Last Thursday, Ed 
Klunk agreed to Fr. Terry Lally's 
request that he stop performing his 
third quarter stripping act at home 
games. 
Fr. Lally, the assistant dean of 
students, said the action was a 
response to several comments, 
mostly from alumni, who thought 
the act was in bad taste. "They 
came to see the game, the band, 
the cheerleaders... they felt that Klunker's act was not part of it," Fr. Lally related. 
Klunk said he was not forced to retire but if he did not, the ad­ministration might take ma­sures , pnssibly expulsion. "I don't want to risk that," he added. 
Fr. Lally affirmed that if the Klunker had persisted, "feelings may have change." He has been handling the affair alone, but if problems arose, he may have had to get advice from the dean, which could have lead to ad­ministratiove action. 
Klunk said the hour-and-a-half 
interview was conducted under 
friendly terms. Fr. Lally agreed and felt that Klunk quit as a favor disagreed with. He had to submit to him. He termed the action to mob pressure and boos from the more of an appeal than a demand. crowd." 
The Knaked One offered to talk How does the Klunk feel about to the people responsible,. Fr. the end of a Notre Dame tradition Lally told him that most came and his own seven game streak, 
from out of state, making that including a bowl berth? impractical. "I think the university has been Fr. Lally noted that "Klunker stripped of one of its bare essen­acted responsibly to feelings the tials." 
The Knaked Klunker is no longer a part of ND football. (photo by Mike Budd) 

Reporters charge investigation by Agnew is unconstitutional 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -The Reporters Committee for Free­dom of the Press said Monday that subpoenas issued to reporters by Vice President Spiro T. Agnew's lawyers were "clearly void on their face" and an example of unconstitu­tional harassment. 
The committee, a legal research and defense organiza­tion composed primarily of reporters, said they would move to intervene in the Agnew case and urged reporters to continue using confidential sources in covering the vice president. 
Agnew's attorneys have sub­poenaed reporters from eight major news organizations to give depositions based on their argument that federal prosecu­tors should drop an investiga­tion of the vice president because "news leaks" have hurt his defense. 
The committee said it be­lieves "that these subpoenas are clearly void on their face because they are unsupported by any existing statute or court case." 
"They are," the statement added, "but another example of the unconstitutional and illegal harrassments being imposed on the working news reporters and news editors for doing their jobs by utilizing confidential news sources." 
It suggested that reporters covering Agnew "continue to utilize their confidential govern­ment and non-government sources whenever necessary to inform the public about deve­lopments involving allegations 
The Observer is publiShed dally during the college semester except vacations by ttle stuaents of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S8 per semester ($14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
that the vice president has denied reporters' rights by accepted improper payments." ruling that the depositions If the subpoenas deter any should be given in secret. 
newsman from reporting infor­Attorneys for Agnew, who is mation obtained from confiden­under investigation for alleged­tial sources about the Agnew ly accepting kickbacks from story, the committee said, then Maryland state contractors, Agnew "will have effected have subpoenaed reporters for substantial suppression of the the Washington Post and its news." subsidiary, Newsweek magazi­
The committee said it will ne; The Washington Star-News; file a motion, apparently with the New York Times; the New 
U.S. District Judge Walter E. York Daily News; Time Hoffman, "to enter an appear­Magazine; the National Broad­ance in the case." It also casting Co., and the Columbia 
contended that Hoffman had Broadcasting Co. 

contribution-great and small. 
Whether the Paulist keeps boys off city streets by restor­ing and re-planting a city park or wins awards for a remark­able TV series-he is responding to the needs as he sees them. 
Wherever he serves-in a In the beginning there was parish or an inner city school Isaac Hecker. ... a youth center or on 
He founded the order in campus ... a welfare shelter 1858 and his aim was to create or in a prison ... joining a an order of priests who would senior citizens group or in 
be able to meet the needs of radio, television or publishing, the North American people as the Paulist is making his own they arose in each era, each contribution, and keeping ali,,e 
age. Modern priests who Father Hecker's dream. would be modern men. 
After all, there is a lot to 
Part of the success of this live up to and an order is only order, he believed,would lie in as good as its men. the fact that each man would 
For more information send 
be himself, contributing his 
for THE PAULIST PAPERS-an own individual talents in his 
exciting new vocation kit of own way for the total good. articles, posters and "The individuality of man," he recordings. said, "cannot be too great 
Write to:
when he is guided by the 
Father Donald C Campbell, spirit of God." · Room 101 And that is just what the Paulists are-individualists. We're proud of our men and of each and every individual . 415 Wesl591h St., New York, N:Y!10019 


Tuesday, October 9, 1973 the observer 
3 

SLC debates procedures for rule violations 
by Fred Graver Staff Reporter 
Yesterday afternoon's Student Life Council meeting focused on present Student Manual Disciplinary Procedures and possible reforms. New procedures for handling cases involving University rule violations were presented and discussed. 
Dr. Philip Faccenda, vice president for student affairs, opened the meeting by explaining the background and history of the disciplinary policies as they now stand. . 
"In the last five years," ac­cording to Faccenda, "the University has attempted to set up an honor system for the students, in addition to fulfilling the basic processes of fair hearings and due process of law." Faccenda added that in a school of the size of Notre Dame, the present methods are the best possible way to handle disciplinary cases. 

He· then turned to the alter­the case judged by the Dean of natives which the University offers Students. But, in the event that the to a student subject to disciplinary Dean of Students is not able to action because of a violation of fulfill his duties because of a 
University rules. The Student personality conflict or involvement Manual amendment states, "In in the case, for example, the these cases, students subject to hearing officer would fulfill the disciplinary action may choose to function." He added that, a set of be considered by the Dean of rules would have to be determined Students, a hearing officer ap­by the . Council concerning the 
pointed by the Dean of Students, or selection of a hearing .officer, 
by the University Board." probably operating much like the "Most students," Dr. Faccenda selection of the University Board. told the Council, "choose to have The University Board, according 
to the amendment suggested by 
Faccenda, "Shall be composed of 
two students, two faculty mem­bers, and two administrators



Four Soriners breakpartyrules; 
appointed in each instance by the Vice President of Student Affairs from the elected representatives of 

3 barred from· all sports events the Student life Council. The 
by Art Ferranti Executive Editor 

Four Sorin Hall residents were charged last week for party violations based on the September 23 directive from the dean of students for two parties in the basement of the dorm. Three of the students have already received a penalty from John Macheca, the dean of students, while the fourth has decided to bring his case before the University Judicial Board. 
The two parties both took place the Friday before the Nor­thwestern game <September 21.) Juniors Bill Oberhart, Terry Cavanaugh, and Chris Payne held their party in the basement northeast turret room. Their punishment from Macheca is a prohibition from attending any home football, basketball, or hockey game for the 1973-74 school year with their case to be reviewed in January. Cavanaugh, a member of the Irish Guard, will still be able to attend those func­tions that the Guard is delegated to serving but must perform 25 hours of work duty for the dean of students. 
The fourth charged student is 
Mike Bonifer, also a junior. 
Bonifer is alleged to be responsible. 
for the other party. However, he 
did not sign a waiver which would 
allow the dean of students to 
review and judge the case as the 
other three did. Consequently, his 
case will go before the University 
Judicial Board which has y~t to 
made up for this year. 
All four students had told the 

hall resident assistant, John DiPietro the weekend before the parties of their plans. DiPietro said that he in turn informed the rector, Fr. Richard Zang and the hall staff at the regular hall staff meeting the following Monday. Their parties were allowed as long as they followed the rules and guidelines as stipulated by the September 13 directive and the two-year-old guidelines of the Board of Trustees, said Zang. The students were also notified of these guidelines. A few days before the parties, DiPietro said he informed 
the students again. 
More people showed up at the parties than expected and a number of students were drinking in the halls from both parties alleged DiPietro and Zang. The students were warned by the hall staff throughout the night of the violations and to contain the parties. 
The following Monday, Zang and DiPietro reported that they went to Macheca to inform him of the violations. Macheca urged a 
Monday's run-off election for Regina South Vice President resulted in another stalemate, requiring a fourth election, which has been scheduled for this Thursday. 
1Dirty trickster~ testifies 
By Clay Richardson 
Washington UPI--Michael McMinoway, otherwise known as "Sedan Chair II," told Senate investigatores he infiltrated the 1972 presidentiial campaigns of three Democratic senators for the purposes of spying and political sabotage. 
McMinoway, called to testify in public session before the Senate Watergate committee later today, said in a preliminary interview with the committee staff that he spied on Sens. George S. McGovern, EdmundS. Muskie and Hubert H. Humphrey. 
Using his code name, "Sedan Chair II,"he operated under the direction of Jeb Stuart .Magruder deputy director of President Nixon's re-election compaign, he said. 
A second witness, John "Fat Jack" Buckley, told investigators that a cab driver planted in the Muskie campaign gave him political documents which he photographed and gave to con­victed Watergate. conspitator· E: H.oward Hunt...·;.·:· ........ ·:.··.-'_:_: 
. -· • -· ••• ._ •••• 11 --.. .r II'
-·. 
McMinoway told the committee staff he "walked in" to Humphrey headquarters in Philadelphia, announcing himself as a businessnan with spare time to donate. 
He was put to work on mailing and telephone projects, McMinoway said he switched telephone cards so that some potential Muskie supporters were never called and others were called twice. 
He said he switched mailing lists, so that campaign leterature aimed at black voters went to labor groups and vice versa. 
He infiltrated the Muskie campaign in Milwaukee and the Humphrey and McGovern cam­paigns in California, he said. 
At the Democratic convention in Miami Beach, he said, he spwnt three days as a security officer guarding the McGovern floor in the Doral Hotel and reported the comings and goings to the Nixon Campaign. 
The committee also may call Ken Rietz, who headed Young Voters for Nixon and allegedly 
, hired Buckley. 

II' ... ,. ....... ~· •• 
University Board shall normally 

reach its decision within five written complaint. Zang satd that school days after receiving a he composed the first drafts since matter for consideration." one letter would be sent about "There are only six members of Bonifer and another s ~nt about the SLC unable to serve on this Cavanaugh, Oberhart, and Payne. Board," said Faccenda. Among The hall staff included revisions then are the Student Body and the rector, assistant rector, President and Vice-President, the hall president, and the four Dean of Students, and the resident assistants signed each president of Sudent Affairs. Jetter which were then submitted Student Body President then to Macheca, stated Zang and stated that "the present con­DiPietro. stitution of the Board of Com­
The two groups each received a missioners of the SLC, which in­copy of the letter and were sum­cludes all of the student moned to Macheca 's office Oct. I. representatives, prohibits them Macheca returned to the hall staff from participating in any other and spoke with them concerning Student Government function." 
punishment. Disciplinary Dr. Faccenda said that he did not 
probation was finally arrived at mutually agreed upon, said DePietro. The form the probation was to take was decided by 

DON'T FORGET! Macheca. The three students who signed the waiver were informed 
$25 DEPOSIT FOR MIAMI .TRIP
of the probation last Thursday reported Zang. Bonifer said he 


DUE FRIDAY AT TRAVEL BUREAU 
saw Macheca yesterday afternoon and informed him that he would take the case to the University 

How Can You Pass This Up?? ­
Judicial Board. 

-3 days & nights in FABULOUS 
MIAMI 
-Optional Disneyworld trip 
care where the student members came from, as long as the quality of judicial temperament was in­sured through the selection prcess. 
The other members of the Board would be chosen from the mem­bers of the SLC"much like a jury is chosen, a smaller body from within a larger body." This would facilitate a working board, not one that would hold up the progress of a case by not being able to make it to a meeting, or being unable to serve in some other way, con­cluded Faccenda. 
A discussion was then held on the concept of "due process' as it is presently interpreted, centering on the written motification of a student accused of violating a University rule. Dave Grimmer, sitting in on the meeting as an authority on student discipline, suggested that a student should be made aware of all the alternatives open to him in the case from the first time he is notifies. "one way of doing this, " Grimmer siad, "is to include a copy of the rector's complaint sent to the Dean of Students with the original 

·~ 
notification." 

1
Dr. Faccenda, Dennis Etienne, 

I 
1
and some other members of the Council are meeting this afternoon 1 in order to come up with a revision on these amendments, particularly in relation to the selection of student members to the University Boar. These revised amendments will be discussed when the SLC meets again Wednesday at 4:30. 

-NO vs MIAMI
St. Mary's election 
(call 233-9555 for info) 

stalemates again 
None of the candidates received 

Knights of Columbus 
a simple majority of the eighty­monday. Dorothea Wieland garnered the highest total with 29 votes. Election Committee Chairperson Patty Kampsen ex­

STEAK DINNER 
plained that a candidate must receive at least one-half plus one of the total votes cast, excluding abstentions, to be declared the winner. 

Sunday· Oct. 14 · 5 p.m. 
Kampsen also issued the following request to all Regina South residents: 


sign ·up in T.V. room by Thurs. noon
''On behalf of the election committee I would like to urge all students in Regina South to take this election seriously and get out and vote. I would further like to urge the people abstaining to get to know the candates." 








TRAVEL 
Monday's results are as iollows: 

BUREAU 

Dorothea Wieland 29 
"ON CAMPUS" -BADIN HALL 
* Airline Reservations *Complete Domestic and Foreh1n Services 
Deb Foran 22 
Tricia Quan 16 

*Representative for all Airlines 
Karen Sills 2 

*No Additional Cost 
Judy Sereni 1 

"Specializing in Group Travel" 
Patricia Jones 1 


FIRSTBANK&.TRUST TRAVEL
Abstentions 13 ' ; 
' . . Phone :~ ,28~·7()80 "n"'~ I . ,..~----------~~--~---.----------------------------· 
the observer Tuesday, October 9, 1973
4 


Justice Not 
Principle 
To the Editor: 
It seems to be common now for public persons to be accused and faced with impeachment for acts they have performed in office. Even Notre Dame has such a situation as Student Union Director, Jim Rybarczyk has been impeached and now must face a trial before the Board of Com­missioners. 
There surely was a noble gesture on the Board of Commissioners part for asserting their respon­sibility for controlling the func­tions of student government. In the face of a possible collapse of the Student Union, they performed one of their constitutional duties without intimidation. However, I seriously have to question the commissioners' motives for voting impeachment. If their primary concern was to actually apply justice to Mr. Rybarczyk, I whole­heartedly agree with them for their action. If, however, their primary concern was to support a statement of principle, then they have raped any form of justice within the student framework of government. 
An impeachment process is a judicial process to determine whether a public official is in­nocent of a wrong doing. This process should not be used as a political convention to put forth principles. If we are to have any justice, The Board should now forget all thoughts concerning principle and seek the actual truth concerning Mr. Rybarcyzk's duty to restrict the number of tickets or was it the duty of the Board of Commissioners or the tStudent Union Board of Directors to set the policy for ticket distribution? These and many other questions must be answered apart from any political question of principle. 
Jim Rybarczak has a right to a fair and unprejudiced trial. A trial free of political questions. A trial based soley on facts. I only hope that the Board of Commissioners 



daanesbury 
have the maturity and sense of responsibility to allow a fair trial to take place. 
James Clarke 

The Boycott 

A recent event in the struggle between the United Farm Workers and the Teamsters has left a question mark in the minds of many who have been aware of, and concerned about this conflict. 
For those of you who may not know anything about this dispute let me explain briefly. The UFW, headed by Caesar Chavez, was formed several years ago to help alleviate the oppression of the Mexican-American farm worker. After mucl: effort, the union was recognized by most of the growers in the lettuce and grape rich California valleys. This spring, as the UFW contracts were about to expire, the Teamsters moved .in and negotiated new contracts w1th the growers (this is known as a sweetheart contract), not allowing the workers they are supposed to represent have a voice in choosing their own union. 
By means of a boycott of grapes, 
lettuce, and more recently Gallo 
wines, and peaceful demon­
strations, UFW supporters aro~nd 
the country have been attemptmg 
to pressure the Teamsters and 
growers into recognizing the rights 
of the farm workers. 
The development that I alluded 
to earlier is that the pressure 
seems to have had an effect. An as 
yet unofficial agreement was 
reached that would give back to 
the UFW some of the contracts 
taken by the Teamsters. Even 
though this could be the beginning 
of a settlement between the two 
unions, there are still the growers 
to contend with. Because they may 
still refuse to hire workers 
represented by the UFW, the 
boycott must continue. 
A group of students here have 
been attempting to spread the 
word about the boycott, and have 
been passim! out information to 

South Bend shoppers at some nearby gorcery stores. If you are interested in lending your support, come to a meeting this Thursday, Oct. 11 at 7:30p.m. in the Bulla Shed. If you have any questions call the Campus Ministry office at 6536. 
Tom Stella 

A Valid Enemy 
Editor: 

The incredibly twisted viewpoints of those who have at­tacked Father Toohey in recent letters to the editor need rebuttal. 
David Matthewson wrote that Father Toohey's " ...remarks are highly disturbing to all those who believe in academic freedom. Doesn't he realize his vitriolic statements could very easily touch off an anti-communist witch hunt on this campus." 
Will Mathewson have us repress Father Toohey in the name of academic freedom? 
But why, aside from his right to voice an opinion, (despite Mathewson), should Father Toohey speak out against Com­munism? And why asidefrom the pulpit? 
The philosophy of Communism denies the existence of God and declares man to be a worthless creature whose highest task is to serve the state. This rule of godless power causes Communist rulers the world over to seek the extermination of the message of Christ. Therefore the loyal Communist commits the one un­forgivable sin laid down by Jesus-­blasphemy against the spirit. 
Without even examining the 
incredible atrocities committed by 
communism in its brief, bloody 
history, it is suffient to note that it 
is the sworn enemy of Christianity. 
That is reason enough to compel 
any representative of God on 
Earth to be its mortal foe. 
Leo Buchignani 

IJarry lrudeau 

arphan 
Man-Hole Days 

ed ellis 
It came to pass, 0 my brothers and sisters, that on several hot and 

sunny days of the past August, I took dominion over the bottom of a 
t..yelve-foot man-hole with the design of excavating out of brick and 
concrete a sluice through which sewage might pass on its journey 
from a six-story apartment building to a great cesspool somewhere 
near the Schuylkill River. 
Now I did not enter this nether region with any well-formed design 

for communion with the spirits of the earth. Rather I was there out of 
pecuniary necessity, my recent graduation having toppled me from 
among the comfortable ranks of the campus clerical establishment. I 
was rather broke, as a matter of fact, and in need of funds, and con­
sequently I was working the un-priestly and un-scholarly job of a 
plumber. 
'The man-hole was, as I have noted, twelve feet deep. It was stuffy 

and damp, like an old cellar. It was cylindrical in shape and four feet 
in diameter, with a curved sluice eight inches in width extending from 
the point at which the main sewer entered to the point three feet 
distance at which it made its exit. My job was to connect a new eight 
inch sewer to the main drain by means of a new drain. Occasionally 
various articles of waste would tumble, as if intoxicated by the obvious 
odor, across the main sluice and out the exit-line, driven by a steady 
stream of water. 
Now I'm not writing this because, like Jonathan Swift, I have any 

sort of 'fascination with what goes on in a sewer line. I have, to the 
best of my knowledge, no "excremental vision." However, I did have 
and do recall several extraordinary events which occured while I was 
digging in the hole. The first of these was an outstanding "memorable 
fancy," a sort of three-dimensional technicolor daydream induced in 
this case by the steady "rap-rap-rap" of my electric jackhammer. 
Put simply, I fancied a very relevant campus cleric being forcibly 
deposited down this most relevant of meditational tabernacles, and 
once the lid had been set, I fancied him trying to distinguish between 
pieces of union and non-union lettuce floating down the main sluice 
from somebody's kitchen sink. 
Even in my daze, though, I saw that in the darkness he could not 

hope to succeed, and so I fancied further that he took students down 
into what was now a crowded, darkened man-hole and tried to teach 
them to distinguish between union and non-union, fantastic and 
merely average, relevant and un-relevant objects in the sluice. 
This reverie was destroyed, however, by a rustling in the main 

drain, a treacherous racket which caused me to aim a volley from the 
electrichammer at the first organism that should dare to appear. 
Fortunately the electric power died at this point, or I should have 
terminated my boone companion and former political ally, Mega-Rat 
whose fuzzy snout suddenly protruded from the sewer pipe. 
Now all the world knows that Mega-Rat is not a sewer rat, or any 

tyr~ of rat really, but rather a large possum (from the Latin "I am 
able") who carried Lyons Hall in last year's Student Body 
Presidential election. My first reaction was of course to ask Mega-Rat 
what the hell he was doing in my sewer if he wasn't even a rate. 
Mega-Rat, obviously in a playful mood, countered, "My God, aren't 

you the world-famous Saint Mary's Guardian of Collegiate Sanctity? 
Where's your beard, Father Ed? Won't you hear my confession?" 
Being thus diverted, I chatted in most relevant fashion with the wise 

old possum, reliving good old days at the Dome, until he finally told 
me of his business in the man-hole. 
"Up there," he began, with a nod at the aperture above us, "we see 

the work of which your race of mankind is most proud, the objects they 
hold up for all the world to admire. At Notre Dame, we saw the Golden 
Dome, the Library Mural, the quaint but pretty grotto. If we look in 
the right places, we find the United States Constitution, the Empire 
State Building, and great libraries filled with books on right, reason, 
and men's perceptions of the truth. All these things are the prized 
efforts of great men. 
"But down here," he continued after a pause, "we find what con­

stitutes the essence of mankind -waste!" 
I commented at this point that such waste was at least an indication 

that folks here were not suffering from constipation. 
"You missed the point," Mega-Rat interrupted before I could 

elaborate. "Some men have devoted their lives to quality, excellence, 
virtue, and love of their fellow men. Those men have benefited all 
your race. But for each such virtuous man, there are hundreds -hell, 
millions -who waste ther lives without ever possessing or even 
glimpsing in their mind's eye one single real idea. Not because they 
can't, but because they are lazy and afraid. They fear real mental or 
physical effort as if it were a threat to the consummate dullness of 
their miserable lives. Their god-given brains, bodies and lives are as 
sewage-wasted. Indeed, the most valuable part of their lives is right 
here in this murky river you see passing in front of you, for a least that 
may become fertilizer for something valuable. And since the greater 
part of mankind has wasted its talents, I believe we can find the truth 
about those people in this man-hole with its stinking sluice and its 
teeming rats. The sun-lit world is buthumanity's ~acade of greatness, 
which the majority praises yet fears because that very majority 
disdains the moral and intellectual commitment to truth that is man's 
only succor against living death. 
"In that sense," concluded Mega-Rat, "I am here to observe a 

portion of truth, the truth about mankind-wasted things." 
Before I was able to answer the argument of thepossum,the elec­

tricity resurrected itself and the pounding of the hammer woke me 
from this second memorable fancy, a man-hole induced daze which had 
endured nearly an hour. It was now quitting time, I packed my tools, 
pondering all the while the Mad Poet's pronouncement that "Mental 
Things are Alone Real." 
the observer 

Night Editor: Robert Baker Compugraphic: Joe Abell Ass't. Night Editor: Tim O'Reiley Day Editor: Tom Bundy and Marlene Layout: Tom O'Neil Zloza Sports: Greg Corgan and Peggy Lawlor Copy Editor: Marlene Zloza Typists: Barb Norcross, Carole Night Controller: John Flannigan Rechtenstein. Mike Seidel, Phil Or· Special Features: Kathy Schwille scheln 
----------------------~ 
Tuesday, October 9, 1973 the observer 
5 

midwest blues II • • • 
"I hate to see that evenin' sun go down, Lord, I hate to see that evenin' sun go down, It makes me feel that I'm on my last go 
'round." 
-The Saint Louis Blues 

That would be the way Bessie Smith would say she felt the Blues. This Friday and Saturday we'll have a chance to hear the Blues and get our own response. It's very difficult to classify the Blues as a musical form, simply because it is more than that. Of course, one can speak of it in terms of a twelve bar form or certain chordic patterns, but the quintessence of the music has escaped description. The Blues is a cultural medium of expression. It is, therefore, not something that can be imitated by persons livil!g outside the spectrum of that culture. To borrow an analogy, just as one who collected Indian art would not buy imitation made by technically proficient workers in a souvenir factory, so one wl 2:! is truly interested in the Blues would ~·t listen to white imitators. These imitat·~·s produce technically perfect music, nut they do not play Blues. Indeed, most true admirers of Blues music who are also musicians will admit this. 
unblue blues 

Now, to another point, the Blues are not alway 'blue.' A large number of people still identify the Blues with a slow-paced, dirgelike souling; this is a kind of Blues. From Blues we have developed much of the music of the rock and jazz culture of today. The slide, or bottle-neck guitar technique is 
When one thinks of Blues music he thinks of Chicago, Memphis, the Delta, Texas, the Piedmont, Detroit, St. Louis, New Orleans, but Indianapolis? Many of the migratory routes for southern blacks seeking escape from poverty and a dream of wealth came from the black belts of the southern states to the great industrial centers of the midwest. Indeed because of its centrality the midwest was a focal point of Blues and Blues recording throughout the twenties and thirties. Richmond, Indiana, for example, was a recording site for the Gennet and Champion labels, while Vocalion recorded in Indy. And Kokomo, Indiana, was the sin city of this era inspiring a song, "Sweet Old Kokomo," the model for Robert Johnson's immortal "Sweet Home Chicago." So it should come as no surprise that there is a 
flourishing  tradition  of  Blues  in  In­ 
dianapolis.  
indy blues  

The most famous Blues artists to set up in Indy, or Naptown, as its black residents call it, was the duo of Leroy Carr and Scrapper Blackwell. These two fashioned a style of music that was new to the Blues scene; they personalized the previously impersonal songs, and made reference• to Indianapolis scenes and happenings that their listeners could identify. Theirstrongcombination of guitar and piano created a sound that was matched only by that of Peetie Wheatstraw in St. Louis. This was the established style that Shirley Griffith was confronted with when 
a kind of Blues that was being played in the Delta region at least forty years ago. The music that could be heard in the juke joints along the Mississippi and the timber lines in the thirties set the trend for early 'Rock 'n Roll.' The jug bands of Memphis in the twenties were recording songs in the twenties that only in the sixties were redone, easure for measure, to become pop and rock hits--e.g.,"Walk Right In" by the Rooftop Singers in 1963 was a remake of a song t~e Cannon's Jug Stompers re.corded m Memphis in 1929;'Stealin', Stealm," by Arlo Guthrie in 1970, was a remake of that song done by the Memphis Jug Band in 1928! And thegreatestfemale rock singer, Janis Joplin 
was a professed admirer and imitator of the music of Bessie Smith. The Blues are a part of American culture as well as music. Finally, the resurgence of 'boogie' m1:1sic is a surfacing of another Blues style m the modern stream, as Hound Dog Taylor will gleefully show. 
on friday 
MIDWEST BLUES II will open Friday night with possibly one of the best Blue line­ups ever seen. Opening the show will be Joe Willie Wilkins and His King Biscuit Boys, featuring Houston Stackhouse. Stack was here last year and subtly overwhelmed an audience in Washington Hall for over three 
hours. Not bad for a man of 63! Joining Stack this year is the group of musicians he regularly plays with in Memphis. This group, which is a boogie band from the word go, will kick open the Festival and set a pace that will really keep people moving. 


• 
he came to Indianapolis some forty years 
ago. Shirley, originally from Jackson, 
Mississippi, had learned to play and sing 
from the great Tommy Johnson, bothper­
sonally, and by listening to the latter's 
records. But through this dual influence 
Shirley possibly exceeded his master, by 
playing guitar pieces solo that were done on 
Tommy's records as a duet! Shirley left the 
Jackson scene without being exposed to 
some of the other great artists that then 
were playing in the region--ee.g. Little 
Brother Montgomery, Ishman Bracey, and 
Houston Stackhouse. Shirley gave up music 
as a profession and headed for Chicago. He 
was detained in Indianapolis with friends, 
however, and there he stayed. Shirley got a 
job as a maintenance man in a GM plant and 
had worked there until his retirement, some 
five years ago. But the musical climate of 
Indy kept Shirley's interest and abilities 
sharp; in time he met and came to be good 
friends with Leroy and Scrapper, as well as 
J.T. Adams and Yank Rachel, and Guitar Pete Franklin (who, incidentally, plays the piano). It is with Yank and J.T. that Shirley will be appearing at Midwest Blues II in a session they have allowed us to call an In­dianapolis Blues Jam. J.T. Adams hails from Morganfield, Kentucky, and left for Indiana for the same reasons as Shirley, He, too, ended up in Indy, and soon became the playing partner of Shirley. J.T. shows less of the influence of 'Scrapper and Leroy in his guitar picking while Shirley shows his debt in many ways to Tommy Johnson. Both of these men, however, are indebted to no one when it comes to virtuosity on their Without a doubt, this group was the best -act of Sunday Afternoon at the Ann Arbor Blues and Jazz Festival1973. And Stack, doing his interpretation of several Tommy Johnson numbers, gives us a living link between country and city blues traditions. Indeed, Stack is probably just as responsible as Elmore James for the development of the distinctive Chicago Blues style (seeing how Stack taught Robert Nighthawk who in turn taught Muddy Waters). 

Following the set by Stack and Joe Willie will be one by a true living legend in Blues music: the Honey-dripper, the Country Blues Piano Ace, Roosevelt Sykes. Sykes, who presently is lviing in New Orleans, still makes his money from playing, and is still going strong at the age of 67. There is also the possibility of a jam between Stack and Joe Willie and Sykes. It seems thwt they all used to fool around together in Memphis and 
blues after sundown 
karen and perry aberli 

instruments. The intricate rhythms and counter-playing between their two guitars shows an intense understanding of the music and feelings of these two men for each other. Yank Rachel, the third member of the Blues Jam, really needs no in­troduction. He was a prolific performer and recorder for RCA's Bluebird label during the twenties and thirties, when Blues was the only thing keeping the infant recording industry on its feet. Yank has played with such Blues greats as Sleepy John Estes, Big Joe Williams, and John Lee "Sonny Boy" Williamson. Yank is also noted for his Blues mandolin playing, calling back memories of the early strinbans of both Blues and Blue­grass music (whose roots are so intertwined as to be inseparable, but that could be another article). 
coming over 
The second set on Saturday night will be the Son Seals Blues Band. Son is a relative youngster on the Blues scene and it is quite surprising that he is into Blues at all. Most young blacks are more involved in the soul and rock and jazz sounds; and this fact placed Son in a rather awkward position : 
"People used to ask me where I was playing and then go to another club, because they didn't want to hear blues. Now it's different. Some of these same fellas slap me on the back now. They've come over to the Blues." Seals comes from a musical family: his father, Jim, ran a club in Osceola, Arkansas, which was a kind of relief from his hectic tour of duty with the legendary Rabbit Foot Minstrels, playing guitar, piano, drums, and trombone. Son grew up listening to Sonny Boy Williamson 
<Rice Miller), Robert Nighthawk, and Joe Hill Louis in his dad's club. Son also has paid his dues with a stint in the band of the great Albert King-it is Son's drumming that can be heard on Albert's LB "Live Wire'Blues Power", In Chicago he began jamming with Hound Dog Taylor and Howlin' Wolf, Jr. Son likes the music of Albert and .B.B. King, but prefers to work up his own material; as his first album, on the Alligator label testifies. All of the arrangements on the LBP are Son's own, and his treatment of certain traditional Blues themes shows a surprising mastery of the medium for one so young. His biting, slicing guitar playing will set the tone for an exciting finish to Midwest Blues ii. Under the careful management and tutelage of Bruce Iglauer, Son has come and will go a long way. He's dynamite! 
A promotional release on Mighty Joe 
this will be a· kind of reunion for the guys. It could be great. 
The curtain closer on Friday is the irrepressible Hqund Dog Taylor and the House Rockers. Taylor, an old friend of the late Elmore James, is the slide guitar player in Chicago today. His Sunday morning jam sessions at Therese's are attended by all the Blues greats of the Chicago scene. Again, there are possibilities of jamming in the sense of a slide guitar duel between Stack and Taylor or a picking duel between Joe Willie and Brewer Phillips, Hound Dog's second guitarist. All in all these guys will by playing their hearts out and just won't want to quite. So if you want to get a dose of what the Blues really is, make it over to Stepan Center for Friday's segment of MIDWEST BLUES II. 
ung tells us that, "Joe Young was born September 23, 1927 in Louisiana, But was raised in Milwaukee, Wisconsin and claims that city as his home town. After coming to the Windy City in the mid-1950's, one of his earliest gigs was backing player Billy Boy Arnold at clubs like the Columbian, the 708 Club, and the Blues Flame on the South side. A tourwithex-Muddy Waters guitarist Jimmy Rogers followed by the two year stint with Billy Boy, but Joe didn't like to be away from his wife and family for long stretches, he started looking around for a steady local gig. The opportunity came with Otis Rush and his band at the Castle Rock Lounge on the West Side, with whom Joe worked for three years." So, Joe Young, too, has paid his dues. Joe is a Bluesman sincerely interested in expanding the Blues format in many experimental ways touching on jazz and soul. He is a fine in­strumentalist and has a booming voice that commands attention. Joe has fronted the 
'house' band at the Ann Arbor Blues and Jazz Festival for the past two years and at the Ann Arbor Blues Festival in 1970. The choice of Joe to set the tempo and mood for the 1 Chicago Blues segment of the Festival is in itself a tribute to the man's mastery of style and finesse. At Midwest Blues II, Joe will have a chance to do his own thing; and after he's primed everyone, Koko Taylor will join this set, that could possibly bring everyone up dancing. 
wang dang woman 
Koko Taylor is a true Lady of the Blues. 
Her voice and style tells us that she is 
singing from the heart and not from the 
pocketbook. Koko has been on the Chicago 
Blues scene for some time and is well known 
in the night spots on the West Side as a 
regular with Willie Dixon and sometimes 
teammate of Joe Young. Koko's theme song 
is the great Howlin' Wolf hit, "Wang Dang 
Doodle," and when she did it at Ann Arbor 
two years ago, fifteen thousand people came 
to their feet and stretched the number into a 
fifteen minute group sing. The excitement 
this Lady can generate is incredible! This 
duo of Joe Yound and Koko will leave people 
with a dose of the Blues for quite some time. 
We would, as a last work , like to dedicate 
Midwest Blues II to the late Mississippi 
Fred McDowell. It was Fred's performance 
at Notre Dame in 1970, and 1971 that game 
many of us a lot of happiness. His per­
formance at Midwest Blues was his last 
major concert appearance, he went home to ·Como, underwent surgery, and died in July of 1972. He's gone and we miss him. 



the observer Tuesday, October 9, 1973
6 

U.N. takes up debate 
U.S. calls for Mid-east peace settlement 
By BRUCE W. MUNN 
UNITED NATIONS <UP!) The United States appealed Monday night to Israeli, Egyp­tian and Syrian armed forces to return to positions they held before war broke out in the Middle East to open the way for "a solution for the tense and cancerous situation con­fronting us." 
"What we seek is not a war of words but a broad consensus which will enable the Council to put the full weight of its influence behind the task of 

Alleged teenage sex offenders plead not guilty in Houston 
By RONALD L. LITTLEPAGE 
HOUSTON CUP!) -Two gan­gling long-haired teen-agers, one carrying a Bible and a pack of cigarettes, Monday unemotionally pleaded innocent to charges they participated in the homosexual slayings of 27 young boys. 
Elmer Wayne Henley, 17, and David Owen Brooks, 18; re­mained silent throughout sepa­rate arraignment sessions until District Judge William Hatten asked for their pleas to murder charges. 
"Not guilty," they said tersely. 
Hatten ordered the youths to face separate trials, Henley on Jan. 14, 1974 and Brooks on March 4, 1974. 
According to police, the two youths promised young boys liquor, sex and marijuana to lure them to a house belonging to bachelor electrician Dean 

Cheerleaders to run senior trip progra1n 
by Paul Young 
The senior class trip is changing its image. This year's trip will not be run by the ND Travel Bureau but by Bob Cimino and cheerleader co-captains Charlie Morrison and Annie Ciscle, in order to let the seniors run their own trip and create the feeling that this is really a "senior " trip. 

t 
All the cheerleaders will be giving thanks to their "patrons" at the Senior Bar and avid moviegoers who saw the Love Machine. In the words of Charlie Morrison "the cheerleaders have merged with the senior class in order to have the best trip ever." Morrison also promises that "we will win" the Miami of Florida game, the site of this year's trip. The trip itself will begin on Thursday afternoon, November 29, and end early ·evening December 2. Chartered buses will ·take students from campus to O'H:.tre airport and make the return route Sunday. Once in 
• 
Florida, students will stay in the Twelve Casesar's hotel and 
chartered buses will take them to and from the game. 
The senior trip is centered around the Miami of Florida game but is by no means bound by it .. The game is Saturday but on Friday morning there is an optional trip to Disneyworld at the cost of $25. There will be an afternnoon pep rally on the beach Saturday and a 
.........· . . 

, , , , • r rr r .-....... ~' -"' .a ... "' -' ·" '" " ....... ·-· .r -'" ...... -~ " • • • • " • • • • • •· • • 
Arnold Corll, 33, who engi­neered the attacks. 
Corll died Aug. 8 of gunshot wounds during one of those sex and murder orgies. Henley confessed to police he pulled the trigger in self-defense, then admitted that he and Brooks aided Corll in committing the worst mass slaying in the nation's recent history. 
During the next six days following Carll's death, the two teen-agers led police to three different sections of Texas where 27 victims were unear­thed. 
Henley was first in the packed courtroom Monday, wearing a white T-shirt and blue jeans, sporting a short, ungroomed beard and fidgeting with a pack of cigarettes. He pressed his hands flat atop the defense table near the Bible he carried and silently listened as Hatten read the six counts of murder against him. 
pre-game party. After the game, win or lose, Morrison promises "a big bash." 
The reasons for the changes in the · senior class trip are 1a result of the determination of Morrison, Cimino and Cisle to give it "a new face, twice as good as before." The quota for last year's senior trip was not filled but this year the quota of students (40) has already been reached. 
Morrison emphasized the participation of the Cheerleaders as hope for a highly successful trip. He also expressed much gratitude to Senior Bar manager Tony Zuaro, who as a sponson made it possible for the cheerleaders to go. 
Morrison and the cheerleaders urge the seniors to go on the trip because the "trip is designed with the seniors in mind and it's going to be one big bash in Miami." 
Anyone interested in further information on the senior trip please call Charlie Morrison at 233­

~ndou:sl 
241 Dixieway North 1 mi. north of ND 

Guitars  '  Accessories  
Music  Instruction  
;  

Everything for the guitarist 
••• t' .' 

After E;ntering his plea, armed baliffs whisked Henley to his cell. 
Brooks, dressed in white jail dungarees and tennis shoes, entered a few minutes later. He stared straight ahead, replied only "not guilty" and left through a side door. 
Brooks' young wife and father silenty watched the arraignment from the rear of the courtroom. 
Brooks' attorney, Ted Mu­sick, complained to Hatten he was having a difficult time conferring with his client and requested that sheriff's deputies be ordered to give him easier access. 
Academic Commission 
and 
CAC 
PRESENT 
SEX MADNESS 
AND 
HIGH ON THE RANGE 
Tuesday & Wednesday 8 & 10 p.m. Oct.9&10 
Washington Hall $1.00 

SHEAFFER, WORLD-WIDE. A ltX!I1HII COMPANY 
'---'-~-------_J 
.'' . '·, '' 
' (...... • ' l •• 

. . • ~.' • •., • • • "At-... ._ t to I ....... I.'".,;''\~ '1..,:" 6 ~ ,· ....··.•..-...... '"~"'.•,•'".•.-11 .. )', 
the Sinai, held by Israel since the 1967 war. The Egyptians said 30 Israeli prisoners and a number of Brittish-built Centu­rion tanks were captured. 
Secretary General Kurt Wald­heim in a letter to Mcintyre, informed the Council that Egypt requested evacuation of 
U.N. military observers from the Suez Canal zone to Cairo. The observers reported they could not confirm reports that Israeli forces crossed the Gulf of Suez at the start of hostilities on Saturday. 
Scali said the United States 
believed there were a number 
of principles that should be 
applied to the Middle East 
conflict. 
"First, in a situation where fighting is raging unchecked, the most appropriate means must be found for bringing the hositilities to an end. Military operations must be halted ... 
"Second, conditions must be restored in the area that would be conducive to a settlement of long standing diffferences in the middle East. There be respect for the rights and positions of all the states in the region. 
"Third ... the foundations so laboriously achieved in the past for negotiations looking toward a Middle Eastern peace must not be destroyed under the stress of a military emergen­cy." 
Scali said reports based on 
U.N. sources . appeared to indicate that Syria started 
hostilities with air attacks in 
the Golan Heights and at the 
same time the first firing in the 
Suez front "was from west to 
east." 
"In so serious a situation we 
felt that we could not fail to 
exercise our responsibility as a 
member of the (Security) 
Council to request a meeting of 
the Council in order that it 
might be seized of the grave ·situation that had arisen." 
"We hope that in the days ahead, the Council, by its deliberations , can restore in some measure its historic role of constructive amelioration in the most critical and explosive in the most critical and explosive area in the world," Scali said. 
While the Council delayed nearly three hours the opening of its emergency meeting on the Middle East, Egyptian Ambassador A. Esmat Abdel Meguid announced to the General Assembly that Israeli planes had raided Port Said. 

Simple, straight -forward, classic-out of step with today's throwaway culh.Jre. Refillable cartridge, ballpOint or fiber tip marker in basic tan or navy blue. $1.98: not bad for a pen you may use the rest of your life. 

$198 
re~toring peace so that the M.idrlle East can be set O" a new course pointing toward a better era in the region," U.S. Ambassador John Scali told the 
U.N. Security Council. 
Scali said Washington had made no judgment as to constructive action to try to end the fourth Middle East war and he offered no proposals. 
"Our purpose today is not to sift conflicting reports or to assess responsibility for what has occurred," he said. "Our purpose is to help promote a solution for the tense 'lnd 

cancerous situation confronting 
us." 

As the council, convened at the direction of President Nixon, went into session Egypt announced that Israeli planes had bombed the Mediterranean coastal city of Port Said and protested to Council President Sir Laurence Mcintyre of Australia against raids against civilians. 
Egypt also announced that its forces had captured Qantara East, the second largest city in 
f' ., • .;.•J I, • I· I·, 
Tuesday. October 9, 1973 the observer 7 
1 
Campus briefs • • • 
Ex-alcoholic  
to  speak  
at Stanford  
An ex-convict and proclaimed alcoholic,  self­Nick  

Kowalski, will appear tonight in the Stanford Hall Chapel to relate his first-hand experience with alcoholism. Kowalski, who served 15 years on a murder conviction, claims that there are 1,500 potential alcoholics on the Notre Dame campus and plans to explain this assertion at the lecture tonight. 
The event is sponsored by the Stanford Hall Academic Com­mission. 
Panel discussion 
on women 
"Modern Education -Beauty or Brains?" is the topic of a panel discussion to be held Thursday , October 11, at 7:30p.m. in Carroll Hall, Saint Mary's. 
Disuccussion will center on the biological and psychological dif­ferences between men and woman which may affect intellectual functioning; the formal education of a woman; what happens to women who have college degrees; and the role of a woman in the modern business world. 
The fourth in the series "A Woman's Place Is ... ," Thursday's session will include as panel members Phyllis Jameson, department of psychology, St. Mary's; Rosemary Doherty, dean of freshmen, St. Mary's; Rose Marie Hengesbach, respresenting the American Association of University Women, South Bend chapter; and Maragaret. An­drysiak, certified professional secretary, representing the National Secretaries Assocation, River Bend chapter. 
The panel discussion is open to the public, free of charge. 
Transcedental 
meditation 
intro planned 
Transcendental Meditation may at first sound like something too complicated to bother with. It might also be misunderstood ~s some kind of tempered psychedehc experience, or some way out form of concentration. 
It's not. Actually, with proper instruction , Transcendental Meditation, or TM, is easy enough for any ten-year old to master in a week. Over the past two years, about 150 students from Notre Dame and St. Mary's have learned the technique here in South Bend. "Meditatots" report greater stamina and faster reaction time, increased alertness during classes and increased ability to con­centrate. 
Their rather remarkable claims are supported by a growing body of scientific research. One such study by Dr. Abrams at Berkeley revealed that the relation between the practice of Transcendental Meditation and recall ability in­dicates that TM improves memory 
and learning ability. 
One thing teachers of TM are quick to pont out is that the technique is not related to Zen, or 
religion. On the other hand, TM involves no yoga exercises or any special postures. It is a s!mple, natural, mental technique which gives the body a level of rest deeper than sleep and which in­creases the alertness and creativity of the mind, preparing the individual for fulfilling and dynamic activity. 
Courses in TM are being offered regularly here in South Bend. The entire process of TM can be learned in four two-hour sessions over four consecutive days. The training is provided by an organization called the Students' International Meditation Society. This is a non-profit educational organization with 205 centers in major U.S. cities. In South Bend 
S.I.M.S. is located near Leeper Park at 226 East Navarre. Two instructors, Susan Seifert and Carol Dixon, run the cneter. 
Posters frequently appear on campus announcing an "In­troductory Lecture on Tran­scendental Meditation as taught by Maharishi Mahesh Yogi." These lectures are free public presen­tation describing the effects of TM, the results of scientific research, and outlining the structure of a TM course. The first . Introductory Lecture at Notre Dame this semester will be this evening at 7:30p.m. in the Memorial Library Auditorium. 
Novel lecture series at SMC· 
The third lecture in the inter­
departmental series "The New 
Novel: An International Ap­
proach" will be presented Thur­
sday, October 11, at 7:00 p.m. in 
Stapelton Lounge, St. Mary's. 
Co-sponsored by the modern language and English depart­ments, the lecture, "El Tremen­dismo: Jose Cela and His Pascual Duarte," will be given tby Dr. Josefina Barallat, a member of the College's modern language department. 
The lecture, which will be in English, is open to the public , free of charge. 
Tutors needed 
The Girls' Youth Organization Unlimited, a branch of the Youth Advocacy Program, is looking for 
Although the instruction of math and reading is the major aim of this program, one of its co­ordinators said, "it won't be strict tutoring, but will be partially in­terest-building. The girls, along with their tutors, will take field trips related to what they are studying, to develop an interest in it. Gradually, we will get into strict tutoring." 
The organization is working with the YMCA in this tutoring project. 
In addition, the organization is loaking for musical instruments to borrow, or for donation, to use for musical instruction. 
Interested persons wighing more information, or to sign up for tutoring are ureged to contact the Northeast Neighborhood Center at 803 N. Notre Dame., or be phoning 284-9677. 
Book sale set at S.B. library 
The South Bend Public Library will conduct a Garage Book Sale, of surplus used books, magazines, phonograph recores and pocket books on Saturday, October 13, 1973 from 9:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. 
The sale will take place in the garage at the Main Library Building, 122 West Wayne Street. The garage is entered from the alley east of fue building. Books and records will be 25 cents each and magazines, pamphlets and pocket books are 10 cents each. 
French lecture 
The Alli3nce Francaise of South Bend will present a lecture in French by Michel Marcy on Tur­esday, October 9, at 7:30 p.m. in Stapelton Lounge, St. Mary's. 
Marcy, a member of the department of modern languages tat St. Mary's will be speaking on Moliere's play, L'Avare. In con­junction with the 300th anniversary of Moliere's death, L'Avare will be performed by the Treateau de Paris theatre company on Sunday, November 4, at 2p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium. 

volunteers to tutor math reading, or to teach music, for city girls aged 9-13. 
CLASSIFIED ADS 

unless I get 3-4 GA tix for my father for any home game but
Mets bomb Reds, 
Air Force. Will pay $$. Call 4J77. 
Desperately need GA tix for the Army and Navy games. Call
behind 2 Staub homers 
1364. 
Need GA tix to USC. Call Phil
NEW YORK <UPI) -The collision between Bud Harrel­
1598.
New York Mets, sparked by son of the Mets and Pete Rose two home runs by Rusty Staub, of the Reds. 
Desperately need 8 stud. USC tix. Will Meet inflationary demands. Call Pat. 288-5563. 
defeated the Cincinnati Reds 9-2 The fourth game , will be Monday to take a 2-1 lead in played here Tuesday. The Mets the National League baseball need to win only one more 
Need tix to the USC game.
championship playoffs. The game to capture the best-of-five Please call Dan at 282-1568. 
game was marred by a fifth­series and qualify for the World 
Need 2-6 GA tix for USC. Will
inning player battle after a Series. 
pay reasonably exobitant prices. Also need 2 
Need 2-6 GA tix for USC. Will pay reasonably exorbittant prices. 232-2973.. 
Need 2 GA tix Navy. Call 272­0620. 
Need 2 USC tix. Call Chuck 234­2542. 
Desperately need 2 USC tix. 
Call 287-1178 after 10 pm. 
Need 2 USC tix. Call Michele 4161. 
Parttime help needed in car wash near campus. Hours weekdays 7: ~ am -3pm. $1.80 hr. Call 291-2673. 
Need many Navy tix. Will pay well. Rich 7802. 
Need 2-4 GA tix USC. Call Scott 1598. 
Need 2 GA tix for Navy. Will pay. George 287-5698. 
NO 
Vista volunteer needs licensed driver. Share driving vicinityw Oayton Georgia. One way trip. Car expenses paid. Must leave
reservations 
by O:::t. 17. Time negotiable.
:r: 

Call 287-8116.
284-4176
J--• 
Want roommate 832 ND Ave. Apt 2-A. 233-1302. 233-1302. 
Student-Faculty 
Need 1stud. + 1 GA USC or 2 
GA USC tix. Call Steve 233­
ND-sMC Staff 
SMC 

1302.
$1.50 
I want to rent or buy Electric or
THEATRE 

Acoustic piano. 232-9747. 
SEASON 1973-74 

Need 2 GA Navy tix. Please 
a 

help me. Bill 3251. 
Need 3 GA tix to Navy game.
Richard III 

Call Mike 1004. 
RIDES WANTED
1
Sh k b ld h' t 
a espeare s o IS ory 

Ride needed to Cinndnatt.l.
:·.··:.-::. , · '0Ct~9:10;'11,.12_,):3·at8:30pm 
round trip Oct. 12. Share ex­
penses Call Matt 8573. Please help. 
· ---·o'Lc3ughlin ·Auditorium {St. Mary's) 

Tutoring will be done on a 1: 1 basis, with South Bend girls who have academic-behavioral problems. 
WANTED 

I am going to be disowned Needed: Ride to Altoona. Penn. Wed. or Thur. before break. 8016 
Need ride to Indianapolis Oct. 12, St. Louis Oct. 19. Call 5465. 
Ride needed to North Dakota can leave 10-17. Call 1240. 
FOR SALE 
MEERSCHAUM PIPES! Exceptional values. per­sonalized service. Catalog. 
PMP Co. Box 444 Gaither· sburg, /IM. 20760. 
Cra~ R-to -R tape deck. BSR turntable. Phone Tom 288· 4297. 
Yamaha guitar F6-300(retail $300( ROSEWOOD INLAID PEARL, ADJUSTABLE BRIDGE, HARDSHELL CASE. Excellent condition. 
David 8427. 
FOR RENT 
Room for rent. 8 min. form ND. Call 232-4545. 
Rooms $40 mo. Rides to school 233-1329. 
Morrissey Loan Fund can loan up to $150 at 1per cent interest, 1 day waiting period. 
Basement of LaFortune. 11:15· 
12:15. Mon -Fri. 
GSU SOCIAL COMMITTEE is looking for members. Be a BPOC; fringe benefits. rei irement plan etc. Call Paul B. at 6615 or 272-7405. 
Students interested in ND-SMC Gay Suudent Alliance call 7768. Wed or Fri, 7-9 pm. 
WOMEN OF ND -SMC COMMUNITY: Call for ·;n. formation now tor the Dl LLON HALL HOMECOMING QUEEN CONTEST. phone 1800, 1863 or 1796. Prizes galore! Deadline Oct 22 so call today. 
JOBS ON SHIPS! No ex­
perience required Excellent 
pay , Worldwide travel. 
Perfect summer job or 
carreer. Send !3 for info 
SEAFAX, Dept. L-16, PO Box 
2049, Port Angeles. Wash. 
98362. 
If you have sex. you may have gonorrhea, syphilis, or both. If in doubt, check it out! Call 284­9781 or come 9th floor county bldg. Mon th ru Fri sam -3pm. 
Free no appointments, con­fidential, bring a friend too. 
Mardi Gras '74: Sell and buy raffle tix for the MSASTER OF Middle Earth. 
PERSONALS 
Gay Libbers unite! Contact Vince K. 1472 or Benzo 1.3~1. 
Birthday joy on the big one Sue! Judy. 

any other Eastern or Western •-------------------------•• 
I ­
~ -~-------~ ~----­
the observer Tuesday, October 9, 1973 
JV's stayunbeaten,down Purdue 
by Pete McHugh Rick Slager moved the Irish to the Purdue 7 yard line before having to Holding, Purdue to only 73 yards settle for a 20 yard field goal by
rushing in 54 attempts, the Notre Stephan.Dame JV football team captured In the third quarter, freshman its third victory of the season by linebacker John Dubenetzky
stifling the Boilermakers 17 -7 stopped Purdue's only threat with yesterday at Cartier Field. an interception at the Notre Dame 
The Irish defense contained the 49 yard line. The Irish took ad­wide-open Purdue attack for most vantage of the field position by of the afternoon as the punting of driving to the Boilermaker 9 yard sophomore Tony Brantley kept the line behind runs by Parise and 
Boilermakers in poor field Freshman Rich Allocco. Allocco position. The Irish offense relying swept left end for the final Irish on its ground attack 096 yards), points, and Stephan once again moved the ball well but wasted added the conversion. The fourth numerous opportunities in Purdue quarter saw little offense and 
territority. much punting with Purdue punter Jim Bremner booming an im­
In a methodical defensive possible 79 yard punt.
struggle, Freshman Tim Simon Murphy was pleased with theelectrified the crowd with two defensive performance and par­kickoff-returns for 54 yards and a ticularly with tackle Jay78 yard punt return which was Achterhoff and Dubenetzky. Othernullified by a clipping penalty. 
impressive performances wereCoach Denny Murphy praised the turned in by sophomore linbackerPontiac, Michigan native, "Simon Ivan Brown and Jow !szeraclo 
was outstanding on punt returns. 
"who shored up the middle well." 
With performances like today, he In regard to varsity possibilities might be seeing some action on the from JV action, Murphy siad, "Wevarsity." 
are looking for guys mentally in

JV kicker Jack Stephan provided some of the Irish scoring punch yesterday kicking a field goal and 
Notre Dame started the af­the ballgame at all times."
two extra points. Rich Allocco and Tom Bake also scored in the 17-7 triumph over Purdue. 
ternoon's action by driving to the SucSuch "assignment-competent Purdue one yard line before being quarterback, Notre Dame drove to Following Notre Dame's touch-Steve Schmidt riddled the Irish individuals" have the best chance stopped by the Boilermaker for­the Boilermaker two behind runs down, Purdue marched 73 yards to secondary with pinpoint passing. for varsity promotion according ward wall. A 37 yard punt return by Tom Parise and junior Tom tie the game as halfback Scott The pace slowed down throught the to Murphy. by sophomore Tom Maschmeier Bake. This time the Irish Dierking broke three tackles for rest of the second half as the The JV travel to Lansingfor their moved the Irish to the Purdue 25 capitalized as Bake dove on for the the final nine yards. In the teams exchanged punts <Brantley next contest against the Michigan yard line in their next possession. score, and junior Jack Stephan Boilermaker's only sustainedd with a 61 yard effort>. With two State reserves on Monday, With sophomore Fred Trosko at added the PAT. drive of the game, quarterback minutes remaining, quarterback October 15. 
Offense reappears on IH scene 
by Sam Vannucci pass from Greg Corgan to Phil evenedits record at Holy Cross's The second week of Interhall Cernanic set up a 5 yd. dive by expense Sunday afternoon. football saw improved offensive halfback Kevin Ford. Tailback "Buck"Buchanon broke 
performances as all but three Lyons did mount one drive, but it open a scoreless battle midway squads chalked up points. was halted on Cavanaugh's 16 yd. through the third quarter with a 70 However, offense was not the only line when Gus Buhrlage recovered yard gallop off tackle exciting thing. Dillon and Sorin a fumble. Cavanaugh's defense, For Holy Cross, Sunday af­
OBSERVER 
for lack of anything better to do in led by jJohn Sequira and Neil ternoon was extremely disap­the fourth quarter of their game Harrington has yet to be scored pointing. After taking initial 
SPORTS 
began a honest to goodness bar­upon. possession and marching the ball 
ALUMNI 7 PANGBORN 3 
room brawl. (Sorry guys, Bengal to the 1 yard line, consecutive This win kept Alumni atop penalties killed the drive. Holy
Bouts aren't till Spring). While 
League 2 with Dillon. AI Stirpe's 30 Cross captain Gary Caster was
gridders mcy have been getting 
yard field goal staked Pangborn to
upset so were teams as St. Joe can optimistic despite the loss em­
testify. a 3-o lead that looked as if it might phasizing that this was HC's first hold. A fourth period Pangborn game.
Wed., Oct. 2
Blarney Stone(d) 
miscue, though, paved the way for 
ZAHM 8 ST. JOE 6 ZAHM 12 LYONS 6
Alumni's victory.
The hard running of Zahm Aggressiveness, too much of it in 
Late in that final quarter,
tailbacks Phil Weckworth and fact, characterized this meeting of 
Alumni recovered a funble of
Jack Leich proved to be a bit too no. 1 division teams. The eager­
::=======================================:Follies, ice and otherwise much for ·St. Joe to handle. Pangorn's 16 yd. line and three ness of both squads resulted in Last season, the Notre Dame hockey team enjoyed its greatest season plays later it was 7-3.
Together they accounted for th 8 numerous penalties,fumbles, and 
ever. Lefty Smith's 23-14-1 Irish won second place in the tough WCHA and Sunday, Oct. 7
points and the major chunk of Zah­interceptions. Lyons QB Aaron barely lost out by one goal to the eventual national champs from 
_m's 188 total yards. HOWARD 8 MORRISSEY 6 Whitaker had fine statistics (7-11 ,Wisconsin in the league's final playoff round. 
On the other hand, St. Joe's A supercharged Howard 151 yards.) despite throwing three The outlook is bright this time around. The Irish coaching staff of 
offense, which last Sunday scored interceptions which eventually led 
itself one

Smith, Tim McNeill and Kevin Hoene recruited what possibly could be established as of the 
32 points, was held scoreless. contenders for the League 1 to enemy scores. 
the best crop of freshmen players in the league. The Fanatic section will 
Their six points came when DHB championship by downing Dave Mayer drove 5 yds. for also have plenty to cheer about with the return of the league's top two Tony Yonto picked off Zahm's only Morrissey in a very emotional ball ,Zahm 's first TD and Jack Leich scorers, Eddie Bumbacco and Ian Williams. 
pass of the night and returned it 102 game. Howard scored in the first ;added another from 8 yds. out. 
There are several questions to be answered, however, before the next Whitaker did manage to give
yards for the score. quarter when QB Carl Obezutz hitfour weeks of pre-season practice end. Primarily, how hard were the 
CAVANAUGH 12 LYONSO Lyons its first touchdown of the
wide receiver Gary Pannone withIrish hit by graduation losses at center? 
year when he passed 40 yds. to split. Kevin Barett's 4 yard plunge a 30 yd. TD strike. Tailback Terry The Irish graduated last May the two most talented players ever to play end Dave Buczynski.

hikedCavanaugh to an early 6 point Tulesiak then swept left end for thethat position at duLac--John Noble and Paul Regan. And although Smith lead. An insurance TD was added extra 2 points. STANFORD 22 OFF+CAMPUS 0 is concerned trying to replace them, there certainly is more concern in in the fourth period when a 35 yard While Morrissey captain Tim With fullback Mike Strickrothreplacing the 5-9, 160 lb. Noble, who holds the Notre Dame career scoring McCalley directed a spirited leading the way, Stanford opened
mark with 226 points, a lofty number considering not too many collegians approach 200 points during their careers. Hockey, B-ball Marauder defense in the second its Interhall season by romping 
half, halfback Gerry Richardson past Off-Campus. Strickroth
Still, Smith's concern had to be alleviated somewhat last Saturday as 
was busy taking it to the middle of tallied twice from in close whilehe saw tri-captain Ric Schafer step into Noble's place between Bumbacco tickets on sale Howard's defensive line. His 2 yd. QB Bill Blum connected for 50and Williams and proceed to lead the Blue squad over the Whites by a 
Student season tickets for the 
dive in the middle of the final yards and the final score.
whopping 11-0 score. Before going any further, it must be noted that the 
1973-74 basketball and hockey 
stanza brought the Marauders' Execution was a major problem Blues were well-stocked with returning veterans. 
seasons will be on sale today and 
within range of a tie, but Howard's for Off-Campus as Stanford's alertYet, until this fall, one didn't normally find the 5-9, 185 lb. Schafer 
tomorrow from 9a.m. to 4p.m. at 
John Muranne sacked Morrissey defense picked off three errantskating up front. In his previous three seasons, Schafer had seen action 
the ticket sale windows on the 
QB Chris Amato on a busted extra passes and recovered two fumbles. 
at both right wing and center, but most often, he was a member of the 
second floor of the ACC. 
point play. The game ended with
Irish defense. DILLON 20 SORIN 6
The basketball ticket, a 13-game 
Morrissey in possession of the
Schafer's versatility and hustle has almost gone unnoticed during those Sorin may have "played'" even
package, will be on sale to those 
football on Howard's 11 yard line. 
three seasons, but if Saturday's performance is an indication of things to with Dillon in the extracurricular
students who failed to apply during 
expect in 1973-74, Schafer certainly will be getting the headlines his FLANNER 12 GRACE 6 activities of the day but that did not
the spring or summer. It will sell 
linemates Bumbacco and Williams will naturally receive. He wasn't Flanner notched its first win of negate the 14 point beating they
for $13.00 to students, $19.50 to St. 
unnoticed Saturday, particularly to Coach McNeill. the season with a solid offensive took in the preliminary battle.
Mary's students, and $16.25 for the 
"Ric's was the only line to put it together at both ends of the ice," spouses of married students. and defensive performance. Bill Sorin did manage however one McNeill said. "I was impressed with the way Ric made things happen on Bula scored Flanner's first TD on a sustained drive climaxed by Pat
The hockey package , which 
that line." 4 yd. run. Myers three yard touchdown
includes 14 home games, is being 
QB Steve Santonello added six plunge . Dillon, on the other hand, 
offered to Notre Dame and St. 
more when he dove over from the used a 60 yd. pass play from JeffIsn't it ridiculous that a team which barely plays .500 baseball can Mary's students for $14.00, and to spouses for $21.00. one yard line following a Grace Pampush to Billy Hoy to set up an 8make the National League playoffs? You know, the New York Mets, a error. Grace's lone touchdown yd. run by Craig Tigh. Tigh alsoteam that as recently as August 30 languished in the National League The single-game price for came on a 30 yard pass from Mike scored the Big Red's other two
East's cellar. Pitiful. student tickets will be $2.00 for 
McGary to .. Bob McGreevey. Td's, one on a 15 yard receptionBefore going further and arousing the hate of all you New York fans, I basketball and $1.50 for hockey. 
from Panpush and the other on anmust say that I am also a New York fan. I'd like to see the Mets go all the There will be no student season PANGBORN 6 HOLY CROSS 0 11 yd. sweep.

way as they did in 1969. I only wish that they had played better this tickets sold after Wednesday, Pangborn, ·which was defeated The game ended 3 minutes early 
season. It has to be embarrasing. October 10. by Alumni Wednesday night, when both benches emptied. 






