On The Inside 
Dr. Henry on equal rights .. .page 3 
$200 to SB candidates ... page 2 

Vol. VII No. 84 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Tuesday, February 20, 1973 


Continuation of UND Press recommended 
David Rust Staff Reporter 
T:~e Committee on the University of Notre Dame Press declared its support for continuation of the publishing arm of the University in a detailed report released in this week's Notre Dame Report. 
Also suggested by the Committee was that the UND Press "be put under the jurisdiction of the Provost's office rather than <that of) the Vice President for Business Affairs." 
As the report states, present University Business Affairs Vice President Fr. Jerome Wilson recom­nwnded a similar course of action last November at a meeting of the UND Press Editorial Board, agreeing with the Committee that "since the Press serves the academic community," the jurisdiction of the Press should be removed from under Business Affairs. 
The Committee, a six-member group chaired by Mediaeval Institute professor Fr. Paul Beichner, also recommended a general continuation of the Press' publishing profile and "an annual subsidy equal to the salary budget of the Press (tol be granted by the tlniversity ." 
Fr. Beichner's committee report came in response to four questions posed by University Provost Fr. :James Rurtchaell in a letter dated May 15, 1972. The report was divided naturally into four divisions operating around the four questions. The questions asked for information concerning: 
--"Specific purposes of university presses as distinguished from commercial publishing houses, --"Conformity of UND Press to purposes of university presses. 
--"Focus of the Press," and 
--Recommendations" by the Committee. 
The Committee took pains to point out several significant differences between university and com­mercial presses. 
"A university's press," wrote the committee, "is the voice of the university reaching far beyond the campus to other universities and their students, to scholars and specialists in this country and abroad." 
Commercial presses, the report continued, operate from a profit motive and therefore strive to eliminate books that do not have "mass appeal," making those publishing houses unlikely prspects for members of a university's faculty anxious to publish their scholarly works. 
There are several strong advantages to a university operating its own press, argued the Committee. Notre Dame's Press has created "a kind of visibility ... not obtainable by other means and has contributed to <Notre Dame's( academic prestige among scholars." 
This prestige enhances Notre Dame's chances for grants. Three consecutive grants for "research and publication" were awarded Notre Dame by the Rockefeller Foundation's Committee on International Helations in the 1950's, said the report, and also two large Ford Foundation grants in 1960 and 1965, to name a few. 
Series books both formal and informal ("series" 
books are those published in progression signifying "a 
continuing commitment to publish similar books" in 
the same academic area, making themselves the 
mainstays of traditional university press publication> 
nave been spawned from these grants, including the 
highly successful International Studies series with 52 
volumes. 33 of which were authored or edited by Notre 
Dame professors, the Fr. Mathis series on liturgical 
studies which. according to the report, "brought the 
best thinking of European scholars on the subject to 
American readers," and several others. 
"Some paperbacks for students have done quite 
well," said the report, including Chaucer I (more than 
60.000 copies) Understanding History (37,000) and La Raza (22,ooq>. 
These paperbacks fall in line with what the report labelled another in a university press' publishing scheme, "quasi-textbooks" which, although not really themselves in competiton in the highly competitive textbook market, do serve as important sup­plementary reading materials which can aid not only the students and teachers using them but also turn cash back to the Press as well. 
(continued on page 7) 

This is the way it could look according to the Committee on Campus Environment. The drawing features a proposed "mini park" in the midst of Nieuwland Science Hall, LaFortune. and the Hayes-Healy and Psychology buildings. 

Internat'l control teams 


to inspect violations of 
Vietnam cease-fire 

by Sylvan Fox 
(C) 1973 New York Times 

Saigon--Despite continued widespread fighting, the international control commission said last night it would begin deploying suhregional cease-fire inspection teams around South Vietnam. 
The teams, composed of representatives of Canada. Hungary, Indonesia and Poland, will begin moving to sites tomorrow, according to 
ambassador  Michel  Gauvin of  Canada,  the  
control commission c hairman.  
However.  Gauvin  admitted  that  until  the  

fighting actually stopped, there was little the teams could do to fulfill the control commission's function of investigating cease-fire violations. 
So long as the fighting goes on, he said, "it is diffiduclt for us to investigate." 
And the fighting showed no sign of letting up. The Saigon government reported more than 220 alleged Communist cease-fire violations during the 30-hours that ended at noon Monday, and a Saigon military spokesman said there had been "no change" in the battlefield situation. 
Nevertheless, Gauvin said the international control commission was sticking as much as possible to the schedule of deployment outlined for it by the Paris Peace Agreement. 
In addition to deploying the 14 subregional teams beginning tomorrow, he said the control comission would immediately take up the question of sending other teams to observe the American withdrawal and to monitor ports of entry for the replacemtn of weapons to the Saigon forces. 
Under terms of the Paris Cease-fire accord, Control Commission Inspection teams are supposed to be in place in 26 subregional sites by next Monday. 
In announcing the planned deployment, Gauvin emphasized that the Control Commission was moving ahead without parallel action by peace-keeping teams from the four-party joint military commission. 
The joint military commission, consisting of the United States, North Vietnam, South Viet­nam. and the Vietcong, thus far has deployed seven of eight regional teams around the country. It has no subregional teams deployed. 
1 
,l 
Gauvin once again, as he has in the past, ehided the joint military commission for failing to live up to the terms of the Paris Cease-Fire Agreement. 
"I should like to remind you," he said, "that while the l.C.C.S. is a separate body and in­dependent from the C.J.M.C. <Central Joint Military Commission), the I.C.C.S. relies to a large degree on the C.J.M.C.'s cooperation to fulfill its tasks and to meet its obligation under the protocol governing its responsibilities." 
Gauvin also announced that an investigation would be launched immediately by the control eommission into the shooting down of an American helicopter last Friday near an Loc. 
The helicopter had delivered supplies to a military commission regional station in the eentral highland town and had just left to return to Saigon when it was shot down. Its five cre,w members were injured. 
Meanwhile, the post cease-fire fighting, w~ich 
had declined for the first week or 10 days after 
the cease-fire, continued to surge upward. 
The Saigon military authorities charged that 
Communist violations of the cease-fire for the 
past three days had been averaging almost 200 a 
day. Last week the level was at about 165 a day. 
Most of the incidents involve small numbers of 

men and result in relatively few casualties but in 
two clashes reported Monday near Kontum in 
the central highlands, the South Vietnamese 
government said 47 Communist troops and two 
government soldiers had been killed. 
According to government figures, a total of 

7.186 Communist soldiers and 1,259 government troops have died in fighting since the cease-fire went into effect on January 28. The government claims the Communists have violated the cease­fire more than 4,000 times. 
On Saturday, the joint military commission 

issued an appeal to both sides to end all 
hostilities immediately. 
The appeal and the subsequent orders to im­

plement it appear to have had absolutely no 
effect. If anything, the fighting has increased 
since the appeal was issued. 
Analysts were at a loss to explain why. They said they remained convinced that eventually, the appeal and the orders would be heeded. 
the observer Tuesday, February 20, 1973 
warld briefs 
(c) 1973 New York Times 

Chicago-Judge Otto Kerner, former two-term Governor of Illinois, was found guilty in the Federal District Court in Chicago of con­spiracy. accepting a bribe, income tax evasion, mail fraud and per­jury. Theodore J. Isaacs, his friend and business associate, was also found guilty on similar accounts except perjury. Kerner, 64, is a United States Court of Appeals judge for the Seventh Circuit. He faces a sentence of 83 years in prison and fines of 83,000 on the 19 charges against him. He is free on bond pending sentencing. 
Bal Harbour. Fla. -President Nixon told a cordially attentive meeting of the A.F .L.-C.I.O. Executive Council that he will ask Congress for braad discretionary powers to negotiate a "safeguard svstem" of trade agreements in the national interest." George Meany, President of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. told a news conference later that he round the President' s idea "attractive'.' Nixon also told the union leaders that rises in food prices would continue for at least several months. 
New York -Childless New York couples, made desperate by the current shortage of healthy white infants, are turning to the legal but often expensive £iels of private adoption in which the adoption of an infant may cost as much $25,000. 
an campu• taday 
~-4: 00 p.m.--isis· gallery open 
4:30 p.m.--seminar, the genetic basis of evolutionary change, dr. richard c. lewontin,, galvin life science auditorium 
7:00 p.m.--lecture, all you ever wanted to know about finance--and now can ask, mr. scott fetner, carroll hall, smc 
7:30 p.m.--lecture, printmaking, doug kinsey, isis gallery 
9:00 p.m.--meeting, student coalition for the human life amendment, room lc Iafortune. 

at nd-•mc 

Protection of journalistic sources considered 
by Fred Barnes 
(C) 1973 Washington Star-News 

Washington--Sen. Sam J. Ervin .Jr., m-N .C.) is the central figure as a Senate Committee tomorrow takes up proposals to allow newsmen to refuse to testify about confidential information they receive. 
Four days of hearings, whicn will include an appearance by Att. Gen. Richard G. Kleindienst, are scheduled before Ervin's judiciary subcommittee on constitutional rights. 
The subcommittee is expected to report on some sort of bill but how tough it will be will depend to a great extent on Ervin. 
Third financial lecture will be Financial Management 
ltecords and Record Keeping for I<:ffective Financial l\Ianagement" will be discussed by 
H. Scott Fetner in the third lecture of thl' financial series, "All You Ever Wanted To Know About Finance--And Now Can Ask," sponsored by Saint Mary's College Department of Economics and Businl'ss in cooperation with the St. .Joseph Bank and Trust Company. South fiend. 
Mr. Fetner will speak at 7 pm, Tuesday. February 20, 1973, in Carol\ Hall. Madeleva Memorial, Saint Mary's. The lecture series is 
dPsigned to give women a deeper knowledge of the financial aspects of their lives and careers. Mr. Fetner will clarify the confusing problems invovled with keeping accurate financial records. 
President of Associates of South Bend. a subsidiary of Associates Corporation of North Amrica, Mr. l<'etn£>r has had eighteen years experience in banking. He has taught courses in banking and finance for the American Institute of Banking. Mr. Fetner is a graduate of Michigan Sate llniversitv and the Graduate School of ·Banking, University of Wisoconsin. 
Bruce Petrovick Staff Reporter 

The Election Committee met Sunday night and decided that it would divide the $200 subsidy PV(•nly among the candidates, use rPceipts and estimates to enforce eampaign expense restrictions, and meet every night to handle any probl('ms regarding the election. 
Till' committee will equally divide the $200 provided by student !-!OV{'rnm{'nt for campaign pur­pos{'s, so that each candidate will n•c£>ive $14 to $16 depending on the number of candidates. The can­rlidates will use the vouchers to pay printing fees at the campus press. Any amount over the value or the voucher will have to be made up by the candidate. 
i'~ach candidate can spencr a maximum of $150 on his campaign. The candidates will have to submit all their campaign receipts the day before the election to the Election C'om!T)ittee. The committee will have drawn up an estimate of each candidate's expenses and will check these against the receipts received. 
The committe has also agreed to nH'et Pvery night up until election night. They will be in the Student (;overnmentOffices at 7:00p.m. to lwar suggestions. complaints, or any issue pertinent to the election. Any disputes will be settled at a hearing of the Election Committe the following night. 
Paul Dziedjc and Greg Smith have bePn appointed by Student (;overnment to head the com­mittee and set up its operation. The 
"The passage of some type of statuatory privilege for newsmen is compelling," Ervin said recently. "Without the protection of anonymity, inside sources may simply dry up. The stories will not be written. We all will be losers." 
Newsmen have been nearly unanimous in calling for a broad shield law that would give reporters an abolute right to decline to testify in both federal and state proceedings. 
But Ervin is expected to balk at giving newsmen such a broad privilege. He is considered par­ticuarly unlikely to support a "pre-emptive caluse," which would apply a shield law to state as well as federal courts. 

One of Ervin's aides said the senator has not been inclined to pre-empt the rights of the states, and probably won't change that position now. 
Reporters who testified recently before a House judiciary sub­committee declared that there would be little point in passing a. shield law that did not cover state judicialy proceedings because most subpoenas are being issued to newsmen by state bodies. 
Rep. Robert Kastenmeier, <D-


Lutkus will take over as next Observer editor 
Jerry Lutkus, junior American most recently as Editorial Page Studies major, will be the next l<~ditor. (•ditor-i.n-chief of The Observer, The Faculty Advisory Board, 
pending approval of the Faculty Advisory Board this Thursday. 
Lutkus was selected during a special meeting of present editors yesterday. He will replace John Abowd, current editor-in-chief, who steps down on March 19. 
Lutkus has served in several capacities with The Observer, 

Election Co1n1nittee will portion $200 equally a1nong candidates 
goal of the committe is to make sure each can candidate has a fair chance. 
Candidates must have their petitions with one hundred signatures into the Student Government Office by 5:00 p.m. this evening. 
The Observer is published daily during Ihe college semester except vacations by the students of the Universily of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions milY be purchased for $8 per semester ($14 per year l from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre Dame. Ind. 
16556. ­

composed of five faculty members, meets once a year to approve the selection of the editor-in-chief of 
Th<' Observer. 


MID· SEASON SALE 
Wis.>. Chairman of the House subcommittee. said he expects the panel to produce a bill by the end of !\larch. The House panel also appears likely to support a limited privilege for newsmen in federal 
t•ases only. 
NOTRE DAME 
TAYLOR SHOP 
2nd floor Band Building (opposite Huddle entrance) 
Service Hours 8-12 12:30-4 Monday thru Friday 
Alterations and repairs by professional tailors 
Reasonable Rates 
Discover the World on Your 

SEMESTER AT SEA 
Sails each September & February Combine accredited study with educational stops in Africa, Aus­tralasia and the Orient. Over 7500 students from 450 campuses have already experienced this interna­tional program. A wide range of financial aid is available. Write now for free catalog: 
e, Box CC40, Orange, Cal. 92666 
SAU PRIC1 
YAMAHA ALL s9S00 
AROUND'--------­
YAMAHA All ,11 gso 
ARIIIND II -----­
YAMAHA ALL s 
01
AROUND UL.... 132 
YOU SAVE 
S2450 s22oo s31so 
(All with Salomon 444 Bindings mounted 
113-1 IUIE WAY 110. II ROSELAID 
Between Party Shoppes ond . .a~_ C Lumber 
PhOne 2"72-38.CS 

THE NOTRE CAME-ST. MARY'S THEATRE 
AFTER THE RAIN 
JOHN BOWEN'S absorbing theatrical morality P'"Y surrounding events 200 years hence--after the rain. 
February 16, 17, 22, 23, 24 at 8:30pm Washington Hall Notre Dame campus Students, Faculty, StaH Sl.SO 
Reservations: 284-4176 (Business Hours) 283-7054 (Show Nights) 
• • • .. • • • • •• ~ • • .. .. & • • 

.---------------~-~~-~---~-------------------------·-------,. 



Henry supports In. Equal Rights Amendment 
~-­

Tuesday, February 20, 1973 the observer 
Governor Robert Orr. "Race, religion, and now, In stressing his support of the hopefully, sex, will vanish from the passage of the Equal Rights 
American mind as reasonable Amendment. Dr. Henry continues, grounds on which to distinguish "As human beings they (women) 
between persons," wrote Dr. are asking the nation to give ex­Edward L. Henry, President, Saint plicit recognition of their equality Mary's College, in letters a~­along with the other un­dressed to Indiana Governor Obs derprivileged and frequently 
R. Bowen and Indiana Lieutenant exploited groups of this nation." 
IIIIIII1111111111111111111 II11111111111 II11111111111111111 II1111111111111IIII1111111111111111111 U1111111111111111111111111 
Text of Henry's letter 
Dear Governor Bowen, which the major problems that 
1 note with pi easure the passage inevitably end up on the doorstep of the Equal Rights Amendment by of the legislative bodies and in our the State House this week. It is my court system are dealt with in a 
hope that the remaining steps are restrained manner and with good taken to Implement this proposed 
judgment and common sense. ThiS amendment to the United States 
stance will prevail in the in­Constitution so that Indiana takes 
terpretation of the Equal RightS its rightful place in the forefront of 
Amendment and any im­those states that have demon~ 
plementory legislation that springs strafed concern for the equal from it. opportunity goals of this nation. 
Indeed, what risks, if any, there This particular arroendment is a 
ilre in the amdnement are more culmination of the march towards 
than offset by the opportunity to full equality that began with the 
make a frontal educational and signing of the Bill of Rights in the legal attack on the rampant and 
Constitution in the 18th century. intolerable cases of discriminatory While we have recognized the treatment accorded v.omen today inequities accorded various of our in em pi oy ment opportunities, 
minority groups the nation wages, education, and social strangely and inexplicably has status. Race, religion, and now. overlooked the deplorable con­hopefully, sex, will vanish from the 
straints under which a majority American mind as reasonable 11as operated for cen­qrounds on which to distinguish turies....namely, our women. As bef\f\.{.'en persons. human beings they are asking the 
1respectfully urge your support nation to give explicit recognition 
in the State of Indiana and of their equality alona with the 
elsewhere for passage of this other underprivileged and 
Equal Rights Amendment as an frequently exploited groups of this 
authentic and sincere major step nation. 
towards fulfilling our American dream of full equality for all
One who understands the political turmoil that has ac­
human beings. companied most major amend­ments and statutes historically will 
Yours very sincerely, recognize once again the typical outpouring of dire predictions about his one. Nevertheless, America has been and will con­
President 
lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 
Dr. Henry, the first lay amendments and statutes President of the nation's oldest historically will recognize once Catholic college for women, is again the typical outpouring of dire 
well-acquainted with the world of predictions about this one. politics. Before accepting the Nevertheless, America has been Pressidency of Saint Mary's and will continue to be a moderate 
College, he was the Director of the society in which the major Center for the Study of Local problems that inevitably end up on Government at St. John's the doorstep of the legislativetrniversity, Collegeville, Min­.bodies and in our court system are nesota. For the seven years dealt with in a restrained manner 
previous, he was Mayor of St. and with good judment and Cloud. Minnesota. common sense." 
·'This particular amendment is a Dr. Henry urged the Governor culmination of the march towards and the Lieutenant Governor to full equality that began with the support the passagge of the Equalsigning of the Bill of Rights in the Rights Amendment in Indiana and Constitution in the 18th century." elsewhere, "as an authentic and He continued, "One who un­sincere major step towards derstands the political turmoil that fulfilling our American dream of has accompanied most major full equality for all human beings." 


'Pleas' have turned to 'yawns'; Hesburgh says of civil rights 
"The impassioned pleas for civil President Nixon's request last politics to exploit fear and rights which in the 1960's excited November • Most of his article prejudice. millions now draws a stifled yawn," dealt. with the landmar~ ~c­according to the former head of the comphshments of the CommissiOn 
The only solution, Notre Dame's U.S. Commissionon Civil Rights. -the Civil Rights legislation of 1964, president concluded, is in "in­· 1\165, and l967 which wiped away spiring and committed leadership

Jim Crow laws, abolished a 
In an article for the Los Angeles separate black school system in from top to bottom in America." Times-Washington Post news 
the South and gained voting
service. Rev. Theodore H. 
powers for millions of blacks. 11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111
Hesburgh. C.S.C. president of the tTniverslty of Notre Dame, also Erratumnoted that "politicians read the "As we enter a new era in the signs of the times very welL Some civil rights movement, some of us of yesteryear's heroes are today's see progress grinding to a halt, It was erroneously reported in pussyfooters -or even the even slipping backward," he yesterday's Observer that the destroyers of recent progress." wrote. citing racial violence, the Women's Caucus would hold a 
insecurity of those just a step up discussion group tonight at 7p.m, the socioeconomic ladder from The discussion will instead be held 
Father Hesburgh, the last 

minorities, a failure of government one week from today, Feb. 27, at 7 original member of the Com­to enforce vigorously civil rights p.m. on the second floor of 
mission formed in 1957, resigned at laws. and the tendency of partisan LaFortune. 



" ...utterly charming sound ...wholly tasteful and in­ventive... a breath of fresh air." High Fidelity 
" ... brilliant group... super 
THE

...sparkling and delightful, 
THIS SATURDAY, FEBRUARY ancient or modern." 
24 at 8:00 " ...always exciting...playing was impeccable. A great con-
O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM cert." Oklahoma State 



PAUL WINTER 
Tickets: $2.50 in advance 
" ...strangely beautiful and highly $3.00 at the door imaginative music." 
" ... an enchanting spell. .. relaxing Tickets on sale now at the Student and peaceful. .. haunting and Union Ticket Office, SMC eerie...weird and cap­
Programming Office, Pan­

CONSORT
tivating." University of 
dora's Books, and at the door 

Houston on Saturday 
THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
John Abowd  Dan Thornton  
Editor-in-Chief  NEWS: 283-1715  Business M.nager  
EDITORIALS: 283-8661  
Don Ruane  BUSINESS: 283-7471  Joe Butler  
Executive Editor  Advertising Manager  

Tuesday, February 20, 1973 
Circulation Resumes 
As you can see, The Observer returns to Saint Mary's today although only sixty per cent of the student body paid the $2.00 subscription fee. That translates roughly into a $600 deficit in dollars and cents. Since only 742 subscriptions have been purchased, that is the number which will be delivered. 
Welcome back? 
Actually Saint Mary's is really lucky to be getting the paper at all. How many other business operations would accept only sixty per cent payment and continue to supply the product? Or only sixty per cent of a debt? Try it with Indiana Bell sometime-it doesn't work. 
Some support 
A great deal of credit is owed to those who worked especially hard for two weeks to organize and collect the money. Holy Cross Hall President Gail Pocus is to be commended for her efforts, in spite of the fact that a surprisingly large number of students showed little or no interest. 
Faculty members for the most part said they felt "completely out of touch" without the paper, and one noted how almost all activity stopped each day when The Observer arrived. Five Holy Cross sisters paid subscription fees one night in the dining hall. Only a week before the cutoff, Dean of Students Kathleen Mulaney called to ask for fif­teen copies to be delivered daily to her 
office.  Apparently  a  readership  is  not  
lacking,  but there  seems  to  be  a  gap  
between interest and payment  

No other comprehensive news source 
Without The Observer, there was little in the way of communication between the two campuses and even within the Saint Mary's campus. Both advertising and advertising patrons were lost. Thursday night brought a rash of phone calls to the Observer office to find out "what was going on campus this weekend." The Saint Mary's "community newsletter" made a feeble attempt at some com­pensation, but it didn't tell anyone where and when "Pockey Money" was playing, or the score of the Notre Dame-Fordham basketball game. 
No help from Student Government 
At no time did student government offer support, financial or otherwise. Last semester it accepted then rejected a petition to pay for student subscriptions out of its $10,000 surplus. 
After the cutoff, many students began to question just where the student government and activities fees do go. They wondered why the subscription fee could not come from this source. 
The Saint Mary's administration was cooperative in establishing a payment procedure through the cashier's office. The Board of Regents, however, rewrote a proposal submitted by The Observer last semester which would have attached the subscription fee to the bill as a voluntary fee. Instead, the Regents required separate payment for the subscription fee and the use of a special reply card. 
Next Year 

It would be regrettable if the cut-off­reinstate procedure had to be used every year to obtain payment of the sub­scription fee. The Regents could add the fee to the regular bill. Perhaps a student referendum is in order to decide the issue. Clearly, the present state is awful inconvenient. 
Maria Gallagher 

111111111IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIRIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII II 11111111111111111111111111lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 
Editor: remains as a foundation of Aquarian Consciousness. Seniors, 
Wavy Gravy is the most out­we're a passing bunch at Notre standing example of a liberated Dame so let'screate a tradition of human being upon the planet relevancy for future graduates of
Letter 
earth. I met Wavy eight months this institution. Vote Wavy Gravy after Woodstock and he was a Senior Class Fellow! messenger from .Nature. He should be our Senior Class fellow Frank Bonnet since he is close to the Earth and OC Senior 
runs the Hogfarm. The Hogfarm 507 Corby St. was really the first commune in 232-2677 the Haight Ashbury syndrome and 

Is your roommate peering earnestly into the mirror as he shaves l'ach morning? Is he practicing mellow and forthright tones as he sings "Impossible Dream" in the shower? Does he clip and save selected Obser.ver articles? Or has he been seen gading about LaFortune. trymg, as he says, "to get to the bottom of this goddamn mess"? Well then, you've had it, buddy. Pack up your Carly Simon records and head back to Larchmont. Your roommate is running for Student Body President. 
. That's righ.t. It's th~t time of year again, folks. <It would be a good JO~e on me tf the e?ttor decided to hold this column until May.) Mtraculously appearmg from nowhere, and multiplying like the fishes and the loaves, SBP candidates will soon overrun the campus. And I'll bet you never thought you had so many friends! Even that guy down the .hal.l. wh~'s spent the last three years in the Engineering 1\udttormm. wtll suddenly blossom forth with a warm handshake a frozen smile. and a tepid speech. Candidates ad nauseam! Oh for the days of Bob Kersten! 
. Yes. Bob K~rsten. In the, dull a~d predictable history of past and luture ~a;"lp~tgns, K.ers_te.n s c~ndtdacy slands out as a highlight of ?oth. ortgmal.tty and mdtvtduahty. The King's campaign was one of msptred gemus; it was a political and psychological masterpiece albeit somewhat accidental. ' 
Kersten presented us with a royal persona that would not blend into the amorphous mass of other candidates. At first glance, the Prime !"over was offer!ng the student body a sorely needed leadership tmage. Then agam, Kersten was a Don Quixote type figure. He was the lone warrior against the establishment, the consummate un­d<'rdog, an amatuer joke in a serious business. And so, his victory was all the more miraculous and engaging. Kersten was the 1969 Mets all over again: qll wrapped up in one regal package. People were ac­tually I'Ootmg for him to win! 
Now, gloss those facts over with these two important propaganda Pffects. Kersten's campaign was the only one with a catch word <Oligarchy.">, and a theme song ("Pomp and Circumstance"). No o~he~ .candtdate could compete with these simple yet psychologically stgntftcant aspects of the campaign. 
Finally, we should remember that Bob Kersten, even without the 
mask of King, really is an intelligent and engaging person. Added to this is th~ fact that .Notre Dame students, like the American public, are more mterested m the candidate than the issues at hand. 
Indeed, it is a wonder that Bob Kersten did not win by more. 
Throughout his campaign and brief reign, Kersten has been con­fronted with a variety of charges. Many have said he is an egotist, who ran only out of self love. Well, who knows if that's true? All we do ~now is that King Kersten has deliberately shed the political limelight lor several months, and that he refuses to run again. Such are hardly the acts of a man with an uncontrollable ego. 
Oth~rs have said that Kersten was, and is, little more than a joke. Well, tf that's true, he's been a pretty successful joke. He removed "the poobahs" from office, which is exactly what he wished to ac­eomplish. <Indeed, he refused to abdicate too early, for fear that the ex-poobs would rush in to fill the power vacuum. >Kersten's methods through, were contriv~d to be humorous. Unfortunately, his most regal hyperbole and wtldest accusations were often taken with ab­solute seriousness. The result, to my mind, has been a most lamen­table and misplaced bitterness. Thank heavens that it has subsided. 
A final charge leveled against Kersten is that his victory swept a number of serious and qualified people from student government. That unfortunately, is quite true, and quite sad. But whether it has had a prof~und effect on anyone, except those directly involved, is a moot questiOn at best. We'll never know what we missed. 
Above and beyond that, not much has happened. Student Govern­ment has n.ot fallen apart, as so many direly predicted, nor has it bl?ssomed mto a wonderous and benevolant theogracy. One ruling elt~he has rep.laced a~other, and the illiterate rabble has hardly noticed. The Kmg and hts court have done little more than an ordinary president. and little less. 
No. it's for his campaign that Kersten must be remembered. That campaign, even for those not directly involved, was an unforgettable adventure--the high water mark of an otherwise bland and dreary spring. Kersten was exciting; but most of all, he was fun. And in creating fun. King Kersten gave Notre Dame something it sorely needed. but which no other candidate ever even mentioned. 
You know, we may not have gotten any closer to student government 
last spring; but it sure felt like it, and it felt pretty good. 
I distinctly remember one ballot from last year's election. Below Kersten's name wasscrawled Oligarchy "OLIGARCHY--POWER TO TijE PEOPLE!" Ridiculous? Yes, but a hell of a lot of fun, and pretty harmless fun at that. 
daanesbury t:tarry l:rudeau 
the observer 

I s,q/AJ "l'f8RII6WiJS '/ 
WEU., lfC..TVAU..~

N/K~ IT!s INc..e&P!Bt£ 
HI/'?S6U~ CW 'Jl-le­
flOW HIW'! PcOPL£ tuHO 
f'"f!e/28 IS 

.. ANO 50Al:S VP
t;Tf25FA yEt;T£f2p,qv, f/C 
IH5PR08f....811 

~J(Cc5S S/\11'/ 011.../
COHE IN HE/25 A/25 
row He-He's 8£5.11/ 
OF Tflfi

"rA/...1\ING 11/JOiJT 
T{}()6H AG!11/'15T 
Cft/J'Of/N6 611!5/ZY 
/1/)5...

H/1/ZK's NEW .RAOtO 
8~HffAP~
" 
MII'IVTe" OF ;r... R.EAU'/?
d SfiOU}.,. 
TOO!
I 

g 
\ / 
I 
Managing Edolor: Joe Abell News Editor: Anthony Abowd Editorial Editor: Jerry Lutkus Features Editor.: Beth Hall Sports Editor: Jim OonaldSOI" Associate Editors: Bob Higgins, Ed Ellis. Maria Gallagher Special Projects Editor: Dan Barrett 
Night Editor: Kathy Schwitle Ass't Night Editor: Robert Baker Layout: Rod Braye Refreshments: Jerry Sports Night Editor: Vic Dorr Typists: Barb Norcross. Tom Modglin, Howard Halle, Steve Roper Night Controller: John Flannigan 
Ed1torials printed in The Observer reflect the opinion of 111e writer on behalf of the editorial board. Columns rl'fleclthe opinion of the individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial comment. 



lt seems somehow banal that a celebrated artist like Marcel Marceau should be eompelled to face a battery of campus press and assorted ardent admirers after a brilliant and demanding performance. Yet there he was. drained from the show and relaxing among us with a can of RC. 
a meeting 
At first. he wasn't going to see anyone for any reason. but after some rather persistent inquiries his manager finally announced that Marcel could "meet with" but not be "interviewed" by the few people who had worked in the social commission and eampus media to organize and-publicize the ewnt. He finally emerged from the small dressing room in the basement of Moreau, his face still painted (one can hardly inwgine him otherwise), yet casual in a red robe. The dressing room door was slightly ajar. revealing a sumptuous fur coat tossed across a cot. and a very ordinary looking pair of street shoes. 
amused English 
lie smiled as he shook hands, speaking some J<'rench. but mostly addressed us in a lightly accented. amused English. He spoke as if answering the forbidden questions. Visibly tired, he seemed somehow pleased with the small gathering of admirers. There is no privacy for the artist. 
"Mentally you can get tired, but physically .it's OK. I am more tired when I do not work. It's healty (to work), it's sport, it's ftin." 
Fun? Dedicated indeed is the artist who 
ean call a 5-month tour of one-night stands 
"fun." 
unabashedly proud 
One must imagine that an artist satisfied with his creative act experiences an im­nwasurable fulfillment. So few artists seem to lw eon tent with their work; Marceau on the other hand, appears unabashedly proud of his performances. He drew an analogy lwtwt-t-n art and religion to illustrate the "f<'<'ling" necessary to mime which was altogether fitting. for Marceau seems to pursue his art with a near-religious fervor. 
art and church 
"Art is like going into Church­t•verywhere it is the same. Both share many of the same problems. For example, why has religion lost people? Not because of 
Tuesday, February 20, 1973 the observer 
5 
• 

a masters , mus1ngs 

faith: but because the ceremony of religion has become mechanical. We were at the J<~glise de Ia Sainte Sepulchre in Jerusalem at Easter. at the place where the cross was, and we all said 'fantastic to witness the 
mass here.' but the priest, an orthodox bishop. came through like this ... <He demonstrates. in the imitable Marceau style. a stone-faced prelate l really sad. This is a man who has a big job? It was supposed to be a special ceremony, but he did it so hadly. if he was Jesus Christ I would fire him immediately. 
"play with love' 
"The same thing for theatre. If I am nwchanical. the audience knows it, but if I play with love everyone will believe it, right'' You must never become mechanical­it is a danger." 
This is why he refuses to play more than one performance a day, and consequently is booked for five grueling months of one-night stands. An artist's life is more than glory. 
"I remember very well when we were in South Bend in '61.. .it was a completely different generation. We had a big following from the beginning: we had a fantastic crowd: but now it is stronger." 
on Americans 
Marceau expressed a great personal affection for America, and its people. 
"The American people....are absolutely fantastic. Their eye is trained to catch each thing ... sharpened by your excellent sports and theatre ... " 
telel'ision 
lie also offered his opinions on the state of American television and what he feels to be unrealized potential. 
"Television should be better but it is not, because it had not enough of the arts, although you have some excellent arts in Anwrica-excellent symphonies and theatre. Producers are afraid that the 
public will not understand, but I think I have shown that American people do appreciate fine art when it is available to them. <His performances are nearly always sellouts.) If the same money was spent on art as on l'Ommercials. we could do fabulous things!" 
He spoke sincerely and easily; he created an air that immediately enveloped the listener in a cloak of modest intimacy. One wondered whether this was real, or merely the practiced result of many such situations. Or did it really matter? Nonetheless, the mood belonged to Marcel, and as he spoke, 
tom goba and maria gallagher 
"If I am mechanical, the audience knows it, but if I play with love everyone will believe it, right?" 

he was the only Marcel there ever was, and his audience was held as captive in the basement as they had been in the mtditorium earlier. 
beautiful people 
Marceau summarized his years of travels with one conclusion: "People are the same everywhere-all beautiful." And for all his satisfaction with his art, there was a peculiar modesty about the man. 
"I love you," he told the group as his manager hustled him off. "Thank you I loY.M you. good 'night." ' 
Marceau once called mime the "universal Iang~age." Whether he speaks or not Marcel Marceau communicates. And everyone seems to understand. 

deep purple and don mclean 

joseph abel/ 

Deep Purple has been one of those strange kind of groups that once they reach a level of good quality, they lose their appeal to the Top 40 set. and hence must rely on word of mouth ( a result of minimal advertising on the part of the record company) and the quality mentioed above. Fortunately, Deep Purple hasn't had any problems with either aspect. 
Tho~gh memories of DP's "hit" songs back m '68 and '69 <sure seems like a lot Ionge~ ago, doesn't it?) are kind of hazy, the droppmg out of the group from public view for a little more than a year due to Tetragrammaton Records' bankruptcy was quite noticible. 
their albums 
But in middle 1970, the group exploded 
back on the rock blues scene with a per­
sonnel change and a greatly-improved 
sound with the release of In Rock. 
Now. three years later, a new album, Who Do We Think We Are: reaffirms that Deep Purple's explosion is not over yet. The same group that produced the classic "Child in Time" hasn't deteriorated in the least, but 

has kept up that same level of excitement and quality. 
I've been a bit lax on my Deep Purple homework and missed the last one, Machine Head. But listening to Who Do... , it seems I haven't missed a whole lot as far as musical progression is concerned. The themes, the playing, the ideas, are nearly the same as on the one before Machine Head, Fireball. 
Now that's meant as anything but a cut on the band. Ritchie Blackmore's gutsy blues guitar tells a tale almost as well as Ian Gillan's dynamic vocals. And then there's Jon Lord's almost inspired organ ... fan­tastic: 
Jon Lord 
Examples: check out Lord's work on "Rat Bat Blue." The solo near the middle demonstrates as well as anything his vir­tuosity on keyboards. The same song has Gillan at his screaming best,. while "Mary Long" demonstrates that he can tell things in another. non-screaming vein, reminiscent of Fireball's "Anyone's Daughter." Finally, "Smooth Dancer" is the showpiece for Blackmore, Roger Glover on bass and drummer Ian Paice. A rocking drrr.on of song, it's perhaps the best on the album. 
fresh and invigorating 
Witt. a lot of ·groups progression is im­portant. or stagnation sets in and the music slowly drifts down the drain. But for some reason. De~p Purple's music has remained fresh and invigorating despite a resistance to signifcant change. Listen to "Rat Bat Blue." "Mary Long," "Smooth Dancer," or most anything on this album. They'll haunt you as much as "Child in Time" did. 
Don McLean 
Now, switching from Deep Purple to Don McLean all in one breath rriay seem like trying to drink milk after that whiskey sour. But there is a correlation between these two obviously different types of artists: life and living. . 
Where Deep Purple expressed life in the ('nthusiasm and excitement of their music, Don McLean tells the same thing in his lyrics and gentle melodies His word­pictures almost rival the sound-portraits of Elton John. but perhaps that's because McLean is primarily a poet. 
Though his biggest mistake was the "American Pie" thing, he seems able to snap back with few ill effects, as his latest, Don McLean shows. With a few exceptions, this is quite a likeable album. 
By a far. the prettiest cut is "If We Try." The sheer simplicity alone is enough to make it a standout on an album with so many complex and varied arrangements. The pictures Of a young man'sfascinationof a first real love with the gentle lyrics that lead up to 
just stand there a little longer and 
let me watch while you live. 
comes close to home. 

Another goodie is "Bronco Bill's 
Lament." the story of an aging cowboy 
singing star. McLean's revelations that 
the studio of course owned my saddle and my horse 
is disturbingly contrasted with the next line, 
but that sixgun on the wall belongs to me. 
and the lament of the title that "oh, God, how I worked my youth away'' is strikingly poignant. 
One curious aspect of McLean is that when he does a good song, he does it very well. but when he bombs, he drops a big one. Particular abominations are the ridiculous "On the Amazon" and "Nar­cisissma." All the former needed was a personal touch of humor McLean just 
j
doesn't seem to have, and all the latter J
needed was cliff to throw it off. Another is "Oh. My What a Shame," that seems to J drown in soapy sentimentalism. 
•j
And of course,there's .McLean's\current single, "Dreidel," which is interesting, but not outstanding. At least it shows he can . ~ do something besides "American Pie" in j 
j
the rocking vein and pull it off. In all, not an exciting album, but very nice. ~ 

... i A 
~ 
j 
J 

.. J j 
J 
j 
j 

A 
j 
~ 

A
''"· 

... 
the observer Tuesday, Februa·ry 20, 1973
6 





Dr. Kissinger meets with Japanese premier 
by Richard Halloran 
(C) 1973 New York Times 
Tokyo,--Dr. Henry 'A. Kissinger arrived here in a drizzling rain from sunny China to confer with premier Kakuei Tanaka about reconstruction in Indochina and the policy toward Peking. 
The President's assistant for National Security Affairs met with Tanaka in the Premier's red-brick official residence for one hour and 50 minutes. With time for tran­slation, that meant less than one hour of conversation. 
Foreign Minister Masayoshi Ohira. who attended the meeting, told newsmen ·afterward that Kissinger had briefed them on his trip to Hanoi and Peking. But the foreign minister official declined to give any information on the meeting.
Accompanying Kissinger were 
RobertS. Ingersoll, the American Ambassador here, and John Holdridge, a senior to Tanaka and Ohira. Yoshio Ikawara, who is the equivalent of an assistant Secretary of State for American· affairs, attended. 
Kissinger's reception here was cool and proper and seemed in some contrast to the cordial greeting he was reported to have received in China. 
The hurriedly-arranged meeting, which was announced only last week, the relatively short 

Social Coznmission sets events to 'iznprove social atmosphere' 

Bill Sohn Staff Reporter 
Joe Prochaska, head of the Social Commission, announced four upcoming events yesterday. The events are a splash party at the Rockne Memorial swimming pool, a trip to Chicago, a hyp­notist's show, and a skating party at the A.C.C. 
Prochaska said he hopes to "improve the social atmosphere" with these events by "not providing just another big weekend, but some small things." 
The first event will be a splash party at the Rockne pool on February 23 from 9 to 12 p.m. Admission is free with an I.D. Girls must bring their own swimsuits, while boys can wear their own suits or use Rockne swim trunks. No food or beverages will be allowed in the building. 
The next event will be a trip by train to Chicago with an optional tour package. The trip will take place on March 24, leaving campus at 7:45a.m. and returning at 9:00 
p.m. Transportation to Chicago will be on the South Shore Hailroad. 
Once in Chicago, there is an optional tour which will include the Hancock Building Observatory, a 
• Places still open for Freshmen in Tokyo progtam 
Freshmen can still enroll in NO's overseas program at the llniversity of Sophia <Tokyo). 
Any freshman interested in the limited number of places still available. should contact the Director of Foreign Study Programs in 304 O'Shaughnessy, preferably between 9 and 12 in th~ morning. 
Information is available con­('erning eligibility, purpose and eontent of program, as well as dates and expenses. Applicants should apply no later than February 23. 
three hour tour of Chicago ana lunch at Johnny Lattner's Marine Tower Restaurant. The cost for this is $8 for the trip and $11 for the trip, tour and lunch. The trip is limited to 150 people. 
Two days later, on March 26, the Social Commission will present Dr. Irwin Ross, a hypnotist, in the Engineering Auditorium. Ad­mission will be free. 
Finally, on April 12 from 8 to 10 p.m., there will be an ice skating party at the Athletic and Con­vocation Center ice ri"4. Free pop and ice skates will be provided for all Notre Dame and St. Mary's students. 
All these events were put together by John Voll of the Social 

Joe Prochaska:

Commission. He has done a 
not just a big weekend but

"terrific job" according to 
"small things" as well.

Prochaska. 
Other upcoming events for the Boys, and two free films. semester include concerts by the Prochaska added that there are Paul Winter Consort and the Beach "no other definite plans." 
P.E. Department will form Senior Lifesaving course 
George Adelo Staff Reporter 
Brother Louis Hurcik, swim­ming instructor in the Physical Education Department, has an­nounced the formation of a Senior Lifesaving course which will be open to all interested students. 
The course, which is a Red Cross ; Senior lifesaving course, will run during the regular physical education class hours from Monday to Friday. Bro. Louis stated that offering this course during the day would allow more students to take advantage of it since many student activities occur at night and the pool is almost always being used for some 
Bro. Louis Hurcik: Students ,evenirtg activity. sign up to take a Red Cross· 
Students may sign up for the 
Senior Livesaving Course 

course at any class hour con­venient for them since the class a' strong side and breast stroke. will be offered eight times per Anyone wishing to enroll in this week. Pre-requisites for the course should contact Bro. Louis at program include the ability to Hockne Memorial or call 6321 for swim a quarter mile and perform any further information. 
conversation. and the absence of warmth on the part of the Japanese appeared to reflect the gradually widening distance between Washington and Tokyo. 
Ohira said that Tanaka and he had listened with interest to Kissinger's ideas on Vietnam and Pxpressed the hope that the situation there would soon settle down. The Japanese also said they hoped that reconstruction efforts could be started soon. 
The United States and North Vietnam announced last week that they would establish a joint committee on the reconstruction of North Vietan. as provided for in the Paris Peace Agreement. 
The Japanese have repeatedly offered to assist in the recon­struction of both North and Suth Vietnam. plus Cambodia and Laos, and have recently begun a small l'mergency aid program for refugee relief. 
Tanaka and Ohira have also indicated that Japan should be included in any planning for an international effort in rehabilitation. Tanaka told Kurt Waldheim. the United Nations St•cretary General who was here last week, that .Japan would provide the facilities for an in­ternational conference. 
Ohira indicated that because Kissinger had not yet reported to President Nixon, he did not disclose much about his long eonversations with Chairman Mao Tse Tung and Premier Chou En­Lai in China. He said that because Kissinger had not yet reported to President Nixon, there was much that could not be discussed. 


Students honor Hesburgh for his work in civil rights 
George Adelo Staff Reporter 

An award, "In appreciation for dedication in the advancement of Civil Rights" was presented to University President Fr. Theodore 
M. Hesburgh Saturday night at the 
President's  Dinner  of  Junior  
Parents Weekend.  
The  ward,  in  the  form  of  a  

mantle clock, was presented to Hesburgh by Dennis Etienne, Student Body Vice President on behalf of the student body. In a 
short speech following the presentation of the award, Etienne praised Father Hesburgh's "dedicated services in the ad­vancement of Civil Rights" and cited his leadership in that area. Etienne later commented that 
• the award was presneted to Fr. Hesburgh because the student body "should not just ignore his service in the Civil Rights Com­mission. No one expects him to be silent now--wea II expect him to remain a leader in the battle for Civil Rights." 
NOWTHRU THURSDAY 

McOUEEN/MacGRAW THE GETAWAY 

ND-SMC WINTER RETREAT 
An experience in Christian sharing· 
Sat. Feb. 24 1 0 am-8pm in the SMC Clubhouse 
For Info call Roger Cormier · 5389 or Mary Gail Peterson · 4494 or Fr. Tom Stella · 7323 or 6536 before noon Thursday 





ANYONE INTERESTED IN APPLYING FOR STUDENT UNION DIRECTOR FOR 1973-74 CALL 7757 OR STOP UP AT THE 4th FLOOR La FORTUNE 


r----~-----~~-·----­
... 

Tuesday, February 20, 1973 the observer 
7 


Senior Bar 

Now accepting resum-es for next year's 
manager. Deliver at bar Wed., Thurs., 
or Fri. after 7:00pm. 
Deadline: March 2. Info. 283-7521 



CLASSIFIED ADS 
NOTICES FOR SALE 
TYPING--THESIS, DISSER-Koss PR0-4A Stereo HeadTATION, TERM PAPERS. 
phones. Excellent condition.

REASONABLE RATES-­
Ca If John 8623.

PROFESSIONAL LOOKING 
RESULTS. MRS. JORDAN-­For Sale . Polaroid super color­
284-2956 before 4:30 or 288-1277 
pack camera with case. Lessafter 5:00. 

than one year old . excellent 
condition. $30. 130 Stan. 8622.

-
FOR INFORMATION ABOUT 
Need a ride home this spring? OrGAY AWARENESS COM-how 'bout a far out, exciting,

MUNITY, CALL 7789 W-Th-F, 
modern, cool, mindblowing,

8-10 pm. 
super. Go-See-America, Bronson-like summer on a

Before you buy a diamond learn brand new, unused, 1973all the facts. It may save you Suzuki 500 motorcycle; For
a great deal. Calf James 3118. 
sale, best offer. Go via Hell's 
Angels and calf Bill at 7827.

A BETTER CHOICE IS LIFE FOR THE UNBORN CHILD . 
For Sale: Honda 350 SL. Six

CONTACT BIRTHRIGHT, 
months old. Excellent

INC. IN SOUTH BEND, P.O. con­
dition. $900. Call 272-5780BOX 824 OR CALL 289-1034. 

after 5. 

Hot Iine crisis phone 3 way, radio, record player, T.V.
Have a problem you'd like to Tape recorder. Good shape.
discuss anonymously (drugs, Robert Berger 291-0377. Afterbad trip, family relations, 
6.

suicide, contraception, 
pregnancy, abortion, etc.)? 
~111 Of July fireworks for sale.

Call this number 282-2323. 
Send name & telephone 
number to Box 685 Notre

PRE LAW SOC! ETY 
Dame, ln. 46556.

In Informal rap with 15 former domers now at the Michigan, 
LOST AND FOUNDChicago, Northwestern and 

Notre Dame law schools. 2·4 Lost: Orange Bowl watch outsideprn. Sat. Feb. 24th, 2nd floor 
o'shay, call George 8251.

LaFortune. Refreshments. 
Come. 
Lost: black umbrella with brown handle in South Dining Hall·ND STUDENTS AND FACULTY! 

West. Wednesday. Calf 7077.

15 percent off on all shock and Reward.
brake work at Rollin' Wheels 
Sunoco (across from 
Lost: ladies gold watch. Great

Greenwood's Shopping 
sentimental value. Reward.

Center) for next 30 days. Calf Call 5434.
272-9676 or stop in anytime! 
Lost: Red mitten. Please

Up to 26 acres of untouched call 
Cathy 6924. Reward.

grassland in Park County, Col. Near skiing and Nat'l Foresl. 
Lost: 1 pair of brown classes.

Asking $350 acre. Wm Myers, Call 6833.
115 Western Ave. N., St. Paul 
Mn. 612-224-8301. 
WANTED 

Prison inmate would like pen-pal. 
Piano player, part time, Fri. 
& Sat. evening. Dinner music. 

Please write David Garcia No. 
134-947. P.0. Box 69, London, Apply in person. Down UnderOl1i0. 43140. 
Restaurant. 
900 E. Ireland Road.

Final Score in interhall Hockey. Tile Grace Tower Forilfas 10 Tile Holy Cross Hogs 0. 
Need ride to N.J. for spring break. Will share $$ and driving.

Next Gorillas game tonite at 11:30 
Call 6986.

VS Breen-Philips Howard. 
2 guys need ride desperately to Miami, Fla. on March 7. CallPERSONAL Pete 8810. Will share driving & expenses.

Denny Smith· Please come home. The family. Need ride to Colorado or New Beautiful 
Mexico for Spring break. Calf Steve, 1059.

The Wooden Keg, Melanie and you: what more could a guy ask for. 
Riders wanted to Kent, Ohio Fri. Love, 
Feb. 23. Ken 8810. Bozo Need ride to Lauderdale, To the king, $$ For
Hollywood or Miami. 
Spring Break. Ken 3679.

It's been the greatest two and a flalf years ever. What do you 
GRADUATES WIFE BABYSITS.

say we double it? Love, your Queen 
LI.VES NEAR CAMPUS. 
CALL 287-1222. 

Wild Italian, Desperately need a ride to
Thanks for a great weekend-Cleveland on Feb. 23rd. CallI dig those late-nile Cleveland 
Marybeth 4391.

flicks. Yours in Eggplant Parmesian, 
Need ride to Davenport. Iowa orR.J. Queer. 

west on 1-80 Friday. Phil 8408. 





University Press benefits ND despite costs 
(continued from page 1) 
At Notre Dame, the University Press is a division or department of the institution; this is not the only way to operate a press, ex­plained the report, although the Committee did not suggest a dif­ferent arrangement. 
At many schools university presses are either owned and operated by the state, incorporated and operated by a Board of Trustees. or owned, as Notre name's. by the school. 
I<~inancially, a press can operate from endowments, subsidies or total self-support. Notre Dame's press is subsidized by the University. 
Thus. to Provost Burtchaell's 
question quoted by the report as 
being if "the benefits <of a 
university press\ to the University 
were worth the... 'considerable 
sums' " paid, the Committee 
answered a firm yes. 
The Editorial Board of Notre 
Dame's press is, as the report 
made clear, "implicitly aware of 
the different costs and 
marketability of books of different 
Bishop Pursley_ to light abortion -with ne-w diocesan organization 
Jim Gresser Staff Reporter 
Bishop Leo A. Pursley of the Fort Wayne"South Bend Diocese has esta.blished "Birthright" to eomhat the recent abortion decision of the Supreme Court and its dfects. The program is designed to provide assistance to any pregnant mother who desires help during an unwanted pregnancy. 
Birthright operates a telephone line for emergency counseling, and oilers follow-up meetings with a !rained social worker if one is clt>sirt>d. The purpose is to provide Ill(' woman faced with an un­timrsly m· unwanted pregnancy with an alternative to abortion. 
ln a recent statement. Mrs. 
.Janet A. Foss. diocesan com­
munications director. called for 
much needed volunteer assistance. 
".\ccot·ding to the over-all 
nrogram planning." she said. 
..,;olunteer assistance will be 
ehanneled into many areas, 
kl'rping as closely as possible to 
!hose areas of interest expressed 
bv individual volunteers and 
o;·ganizations." 
The work of the volunteers will 
include handling mailings. can­
,·assing. publicity and working at 
ND debatois win tourney: speakers place 1st & 3rd 
Tlw momentum of the Notre Damr Drbate Team carried them to their first major tournament ,·ictorv at Kent State over this past \n'rkend. 
Sophomores Dave Hayes and . ll'l'f Hajchel posted a perfect 6-0 rt'cord in the preliminary rounds \\·ith Hayes capturing 1st place ~praker award and Hajchel taking :lrd speaker out of GO competing dl'lw tl•rs. 
Their counterparts. seniors Jack KPrnev and .John Borkowski. postl'd ·a .J-2 record. enabling two l\otre name teams to qualify for 
THE RED DOOR CLUB 
pre~ents 
Old Time Movies 
Every Wednesday Night *also recent NO Football Flix *BEER * WINE * LIQUOR* 
MEMBERSHIPS AVAILABLE 

kinds" and the .financial facts facts of running the press organization. 
For the fiscal year ending June 30, 1972, the Press' net loss to the University was $51,968.54 before an inventory write-down, for books five years old, amounting to $54,950.49, summing to a total loss of $106,719.03. 
These seemingly bleak figures, the report quoted Business Vice President Wilson as saying, are offset by the value of Press in­ventory--at June 30, $256,917.50. 
Concerning write-downs for old books in the inventory, the Com­mittee also recommended that the write-off period be changed from five to eight years because, reasoned the Committee, "the average time for a book to go out of print is six and one-half years, and most scholarly books usually take much longer." 
At present the Press "directs its attention to publishing in certain fields: theology and liturgy; philosophy; government and in­lerna tionaI relation"· F.nglish 
literature; sociology•· t~~__ recent and popula·r--M--~-........ writers in an 
extcan-' 

the telephone referral system. !\Irs. Foss also stated that some Yolunteers would be needed to activate a Speakers Bureau "to handle speaking engagements which are being requested by eom m unity organiza lions throughout the diocese." 
"Other areas which will need attention and assistance are foster homps for unmarried. pregnant girls : temporary foster homes for haby placement: and temporary homrs for unmarried mothers and I heir children. providing them help 


Spring enrollment figures higher than past years' 
Final spring semester Pnrollment figures at the tlniversitv of Notre Dame show !U44 undergraduate and graudate students. up 290 over comparative figures of a year ago. 
There are 6.556 undergratuade students. 1,169 graduate students, 4<l2 Law School students. and 156 in the graduate program of business administration. The report released by the registrar's office indicates an enrollment of 612 
the elimination rounds. While.-------------=-"~ 
llayes and Hajchel dropped their quarter final round to Wooster, Borkowski and Keeney went all the ,,.a,· to the final round to defeat tha·t ~amr Wooster team for first place. 
Some of the schools which fell to tlw Irish were John Carroll, <'apital. Clarion. Detroit, CMU, <Hid \Vest Virginia. The victory at Kl•nt Stall' marks the third straight tournament in which the Irish have pbeed a total of five teams in l'iimination rounds. 
American series); "mediaeval studies; and the Mathematical lecture series." 
Besides these, other projects have been perpetrated, including the ecucation series Catholic Schools in Action and Kolupaila's 1000-page Bibliography of Hydrometry, an abnormal ex­cursion into a field (science> which is generally not touched by the University of Notre Dame Press. 
The Committee recommeru.led following the present publishing profile, suggesting that, "as fewer books can be published, greater selectivity for quality be exer­cised," that "importation of (foriegn) books published in 
English  for  an  American  
edition ...should  be  carefully  
weighed,"  and  that  publishing  

horizons for the Press should inlude "new and promtsmg field<sl, such as was the case with the Mexican-American books." 
Also urged was an emphasis on "the latest printing and com­position methods," mentioning 
between the time they leave the hospital and the time they set up their own households." 
Mrs. Foss also made a plea that those who could not do volunteer \l'ork send what contributions they could to "Birthright'', c'o Catholic Charities. 919 Fair fiels Ave., Fort Wavne. Indiana. 46802. 
A.ll volunteers and community groups who would like to work with "Birthright'' are asked to call in South Bend 289-1034 and leave their name. address and telephone number. 
womPn. including 372 un­dergraduates. 
The College of Arts and Letters again leads undergraduate rnrollment with 2,210 students. There are 1,579 in the Freshman Yrar of Studies Program. 1,148 in the College of Business Ad­ministration. 804 in the College of Seience. and 725 in the College of I<:ngineering. 
The total of 8,344 students compares with 8,237 in 1971-72, !U56 in 1970-71, and 7,924 in 1969-70. Tht> figure also includes students studying at Notre Dame campuses in Innsbruck, Austria; Angers. 
France;  University  of  Sophia,  
Tokyo; Mexico City;  Rome  and  
London.  

WhAT'S ThE RELiGiOUS LiFE Lil{E? 
Aslc the Men Who Know 
Contact: Fr. Andrew Cifemi, 0. Praem. Holy Crass Hall, 107 UNO tele: 283-6185 

effort to save the Press money. 
The report would also have appointments to the Editorial Board made by the Provost after recommendation of the Board, for "definite, staggered terms," and would pro.vide an ex officio spot for the Provost on the Board. 
Committee Chairman Beichner 
summed up his committee's ef­
forts in preparing the report in this 
way. 

"It's a good report," he said. "I 
wish that all reports put out at the 
He believed the report explained 
it adequatley. 
University were as clear and 
sensible. One can't assume that people know what book publishing1s all about." Members serving on the Com­mittee were: Dr. Mathew Fitzsimons, Prof. Dept. of History; Dr. Stephen Kertesz, Dir. Institute for In­ternational Studies; Dr. William Liu, Chairman of Sociology and Anthropology; Dr. Ralph M~lnerny, Prof. Dept. of Phtlosophy; Dr. Julian Samora Prof. Dept. of Sociology and An~ thropology; and Dr. Ernest San­deen. Prof. Dept. of English. 
-

1 1 
A 
~ 
l 
"' 

j 
~ 
~ ~ 
j 

.. J 
j 

j 
4 
j • j ~ J 
•~ 

•~ 
~ 

... 

... 
8 the observer Tuesday, February 20, 1973 







Boiler depth sinks ND tankmen. 65-58 
by Pete McHugh sPiting two pool records, com-thclrish for the last time. plt'tt'ly dominated the in-Purdue finally burst Notre tt'rmPdiatt' edge Danw's bubblt' b~ sweeping the top 
Ih'spite three victories by Jim t'vents to the 
Irish. two positions in the 200 yard

Kam· and a record-shattering 
backstroke. :100 yard freestyle, and

t)('rformance by John Sherk, the Tlw nwet began with the Irish 
:!Oil \'i1rd breaststroke. For the

Irish swimmers could not hold 400 yard medley relay team (Ed 
Irish. Craham. Sherk, Brian

haek a highly favored Purdue (iraham..Jim Fischer. Ed Strack, 
1\lt'xCorry Pach finished third in

lt•am. losing li5-58 Saturday af­.Jim Meagheryl being awarded 
tlw n•spective events.

tt>moon at Rockne Memorial Pool. first place after the apparent 
winner. Purude, had been Notrl' DamP captured the three Kane. Notre Dame's most disqualified for a stroke violation. lll<'l<•r diving compt'tition hehind consistent winner this year, tlw 1-2 finish of Makielski and
Following the relay decision,

captured the 100 yard freestyle, set Chris Pavnt'. However. a near­
Slwrk 's unbelievable showing in 

a pool record (I :47.91 in the 200 st'riousaecidt'nl overshadowed the
the 1000 yard freestyle gave the 

~·ant freestyle. and anchored an Irish win. Frt'shman Mark Foster.
Irish a 1:1-!1 lead and momentum.

Irish vit'lory in the 400 yard in his final dive off the high board, 
Kane's win with .Joe O'Connor

fn•t•style r<'lay. Sherk who last l'lippt'd his iwad on lhP board in his
third in the 200 yard freestyle and

wt•ek broke h:s own record in the dt'SCl'nl into the water. He suf­
(~t·rw Krathaus's victory (meet

1000 ~·ani fre<·stvle, eclipsed that fpn•d only a slight cut and
n•cm·d. 22.21 in the 50 yard

doeking hy more thannim•seconds ht'adache. however, and left the
fn•e: lyle boosted the Irish lead to

for a \'a rsi ty record (10:29.11 in the pool undt'r his own power.
:!4-l:l.


distance t•vent. In the 200 vard individual With Purdue already having 
Altogether five pool marks were nwdley. Notrre hame could only dinched the win, Notre Dame's 400 set. with Purdue taking three of the manage a third place finish as ~·ard freestyle relay team honors. Purdue dosed the gap. Dan lO'Connor. Mark Wilcox, 
1\lakielski and Mark Foster Krathaus. Kanel closed the action The scoring was highly unusual, finished first and third in the one hy winning their event with a 3:20.3 by John Fineran \\·inning 22-5. Tlw foil and Ppee for tht• Irish placed first in eight of nwter diving eompetition to keep timing. squads hoth wt'nl 7-2 while the 
The Notre Dame fencing team

the thirteen events. but could not the lri:-.h ;n command. sabrt'mt'n did them one better.
The setback was Notre Dame's ran into more bad luck this past
mateh Prudue's overall depth. posting an !\-1 mark. Michigan
Boilermaker John first at home and lowered the Irish \H'l'kt'nd Ohio as they lost
Stanback in Stat<' gavt' the Irish fits for a while.
rt'cord to li-4 in dual meet action. another 14-13 match, this time to
Notre Dame took an early lead dt'feated Notre Dame's Strack in If not for the !l-0 shutout by the 
lwhind wins in the freestyle and lht' 200 yard butterfly to tie the Thl' Irish face Illinois State Friday Ohio State. while easily defeating 
qwt•mt•n. Notre Dame would have diving competition. However, score. Th.enKanetook the 100 yard and Wayne State Saturday at the hoth Michigan State and Oberlin. found themst'lves in a real battle. Purdue. with Maury Wolfred fret'style to give the_ adantage to Hockne pool. "Wt• lt't them off the hook," "Wt> just can not have mental 
Coach Mike DeCicco said between lapses. Wt' are trying to fence 
conferpnces with his weapon 
too physically We must make tt•ams. "Wl' had four 5-4 bouts in ourst'lvt's fiPxible l'nough so that

Wrestlers drop two, Rocek loses 

which Wl' wt'rc ai]ead 4-2 and they \\l' ean roll with whatever our 
\\'on thl'm all."
by Lefty Ruschmann Akron got off to a fast start :l-0, .Jpff Turley's thrid round !>pporwnts throw at us," DeCicco 
Tlw Irish had fought back

l<'riday night, winning the first two flurry gave him a 12-1 win over 177 wt'nl on. 
gallantly against the Buckeyes,
Notre Dame's wrestling team t•vents for a 7-0 lead. Greg pound Pete Meade of the. Irish and Tri-Captain Dan Mulligan had an 
who at one poitlt led 12-8. Notre
wound up a frsutrating weekend Kt•sserling ( 1181 opened for Akron Pucci defeated Hocpk by a 7-3 outstanding 7-1 wt'ekend in sabre,
Danw got it back to 12-12 and then
road trip, losing to a powerful with a 15-4 win over Marc count. Achterhoff's pin closed out raising his season mark to 22-7. 
North Carey gave the Irish a 13-12
Akron team Friday night 27-12, and Honquillo, a reversal and three the proceedings. I<:pt•e Tri-Captain Mike Matranga
lt'ad with foilsman Jim Mullenix
dropping a 26-11 decision Saturday takedowns ·in the middle period .John Carroll was equally continued the comeback he started 
lt'<tding ~-2 in his match against
to rPvenge-minded John Carroll. decit:lingthe match. Doug Hradik rt'lentelss against the Irish, on in !l<'lroit with a 5-1 weekend to up
OSll's Broidy. But the Buckeye
Despite their double defeat, the blanked Notre Dame's 126 pounder Saturday. rolling to an early 7-0 his nvt'rall mark to 15-6. Tom Coye 
cam{' back with two quick touches
Irish featured a number of solid 1\1 ike Hochwald. 10-o. after a seven ll•ad on decision wins by Jack and Tri-Captain Mike Cornwall 
to lit'. and then came in with the
performances, especially by point opening period blitz. Mulhall. who decisioned 118-pound both had 4-3 marks for the foilists 
clincher to give his team a 13-13 tie.
heavyweight Jay Achterhoff, a Dave Boyer of the Irish spotted !\like M'arlin by a 12-3 score, and by to raist' their records to 17-7 and 14­rt'cent arrival to coach Terry 1:!4-pound George Jenkins a 1-o Mark Cale (1261, an 18-1 victor Tlw Buckeyes than went on to win 10 rt'spt'ctively. HowPver. DeCicco 
the match."l4-13.
Mather's mat squad.. Achterhoff Pdgt' on a sPcond period escape, ovt'r Mike Hochwald of the Irish. ft•t'ls the foilists will be in for a lot defeated Akron's 265-pound but a penalty point and a final Dave Bover retaliated for Notre "TII('y are a good team, but I of competition with Illinois, Wisconsin. and Tri-State coming in 
heavyweight Rich Brown at the period escape earned Boyer a 2-1 DamP with a 4-1 triumph over 134-wasn't eonvinced that they are of three-minute mark and won his decision. Jim Robnson of the Zips pound opponent Tom Zammet. tlw ealiber of somP of the teams we this Saturday. match agaisnt Ed Floyd of John overcame deficits of a 4-2 and 6-2 St'cond-period action decided the have faced this year." the coach "Illinois has three outstanding 
Carrol by default. agaisnt 142 pound Pat O'Connor of <'Vent. Boyer netting an escape and said. foilsmt'n. and we are going to have ,... lhPirish. scoring a third stanza pin takdown to gain a 3-1 lead. "Wt• are a good team and our to match our sabres to their foils.
Dave Boyer sparkeled in 134­That's why it is important that we

pound competition. collecting a at li:28 of the contest. Carroll's Dan Wier (142) competition is the best. However, ready," the
an• nwntally Irish pair of decisions over Akron's Notre Dame's Hich Gilloon (1501 disposed of Notre Dame's Pat ~·ou gPt the feeling that there is t'oach said.

O'Connor 14-4 on the strength of sonwthing lacking. I think we lack
Gt•orge .Jt'nkins and John Carroll's rt'turning to his normal wieght Illinois was
his an t•ight-point final period. Rich a put-it-home individuaL" DeCicco 13-0 going into lastwho a t'lass. dominated match
tom Zamme-t brought Gilloon and his 15G-pound foe Mark \H'Pkt'nd's nlt'et with Wayne State.
<:ombind 27-3 record against him. against Ken King, winning it 9-1. A \H'Ill on. so
llummer then matched escapes for I hope they beat Wayne Statesecond period takedown and near
AI Hocek. making his first ap­1-1 stalemate. Tlw Irish had an easy time with that W<' can save face this season
fall accounted for the deciding a 

pt'arance at 190 pounds, saw his 22-Oberlin on Friday afternoon, hy lll'ating them." DeCicco added.
Lt'ading 13-5. John Carroll posted
points.

gamt' win streak pvaporate agaisnt 
\'ictories in the next five matches
Akron then took four straightAkron's f<~d Pucci. "Ace," who has 

for a commanding 26-5 lead. Jim 

Keenan, Off-Campus post
matches to fashion a 27-6 bulge.

shed :lO pounds in preparation for 
Trausch ( 15!11 outpointed John 

next month's NCAA Mike Turnbull stopped John Dowd
tournament, 
llowd 10-5. Ken Meditz followed in 
in the !58-pound event, 7-6 by vir­


/-hall cage tourney wins

was bothered by fatigue due to his tlw 167-pound class with a 10-1
tue on Iime advantage. Ken Net-

rapid \\eight loss. \'erdict over NO's Pete Chimento.
tling ( 1671 blanked Pete Chimento, by Stan Urankar Stungys iced the 0-C triumph.
Tom Corbo. the hosts' 177 pounder. \rhitt'washed Pete Meade by a 17-0 Mustone took game honors with
The Interhall basketball playoffs

t'ount. and Jack Metzger outlasted 1!\ points. and teammate Paul
Playoff tix distributio~ 

began last night in the Auxiliary
AI Hocek in the 190-pound battle, 9-Marlin ('hipped in with 16. Far­
<~ymnasium of the ACC as the 
Separate checks are requested-­li. on a final round takedown and balko It'd the winners with a dozen
Although the Notre Dame field of title hopefuls . was cut to 
nne for the semi-finals and one for timt' advantage. points and eleven rebounds.
hockev team still has four WCHA four surviving clubs . 
the finals--and checks may be . Jay Achterhoff. the Notre Dame1-(amt's remaining on its 1972-73 Off-Campusnwdt' payable to the University of heavyweight. eked out a 2-1 lead

selwdule. the possibility exists that (;race shot 50 per cent in the
<'a rned a berth in the South Quad
Notre Dame. afl<•r one period. and went out to

1'\ll will host· thP 1973 Western npt'ning period of their contest.
final by fighting off Dillon, 42-41,Student season ticket holders win a second period decision by
Cnlll'giate Hockey Association t•nabling to within
while Keenan demolished a them keep may purchase playoff tickets for default over f<~d f<'loyd, who was
playoffs. · rt'asonable striking range of
hapless Grace club, 68-42, to enterthe same seat location as their whistled off the mat by·the official Kt•Pnan at 13-8. Unfortunately, anytht' North Quad championshipsea son I icket on Tuesday, aftt'r suffering two borken ribs.
Tlw st'mi final series (if played grace they may have entered the
battle.
February 27, from 9 am through 4. TheIrish wrestlers close out their

at Notre Damt'l• will be playea~qn ganw with was quickly dissolved 
pm at the ticket window on the home schedule tonight with a home

1\Inndav. March 5th and Tuesda): as the losers went through the next 1\Iarch.lith. The final series (if second floor of the ACC. The face nH•et .agaisnt the Broncos of Off-Campus faces Holy Cross thirteen minutes without tallying a 
of the season ticket booklet should W<•stt'rn Michigan. The meet, W<'dnesday night at 6 p.m. and
playt'd at Notre Darnel will be point. 
played on Friday, March 9th and lw presented to the clerk in order scheduled for the ACC auxiliary KPt'nan will square off with Zahm Saturdav. March lOth. Face-off to aid in determining seat location. gym. is slated to take place at 7:30 at i::Jo on the same night. Both 
B~· the time Bob Healy sank a 

timt' for. all four games will be 7:30 Ft'bruary 27 is thP only day that P m. games will again be in the ACC's 
lay-up with 7: II to play in the third Auxiliary Gym. 

season ticket location for thep.m. 

stanza. Keenan, paced by Jimplayoffs can be guaranteed. 

Dunphy injured Donnelly, John Golden, and the
0-C. one of the pre-season
Ticket prices for the semi-finals Clemens twins. Pete and Paul, had

All other Notre Dame and St. favorites to take over as IH titlists, 
have been set at $2.00 per game for Mike Dunphy, freshman left­
a nm off 21 straight points to take a
Mary's students may purchase was only able to get through the
students and $3.00 per game for winger on the Notre Dame hockey comfortable 34-10 lead. 
the general public For the finals, playoff tickets beginning Wed­team. was lost for the remainder of first half with a one-point lead, 21­tht' rates will be the same for nesday. February 28 from 9 the-regular season--and for the 20. Much of the Dillon first-session a.m.-5 p.m. at the ticket window fireworks were wrought by guard Grace saved some face by rip­
students but will be $4.00 per game playoffs--when he suffered a 
at Gate lo of the ACC. Sale will Dave Mustone, who pumped in half ping Keenan's mop-up squad for 28
for the public. broken leg in practice yesterday.
continue until ticket supply is of his squad's scores. markers in the final quarter, but
The injury--a fracture of the 

J\ umrt ol one ( 1 l season ticket Pxhausted. the deadly third session did the
femur in Dunphy's right leg-­

per gamP for personal use has been If Notre Dame does not host the deed as the winners converted on
occurred when the 5-10, 165 Dillon lost control in the third st'l. and students wishing ad­st'mi-finals and-or finals tickets period. falling behind by a 34-27 1:1 of 18 from the field. 
t 
pounder slid skates-first into thet ditional tickets must purchase for unplayed games must be retaining boards of the ACC ice count. but was still within reach thPm at full price. A student ID prt'sented or mailed for refund on rink. late in the contest. The Big Red Donnelly paced Keenan with 12 must he presented at the time of or before April 6. 1973, at the ticket Dunphy. a resident of An­closed their margin to 44-39 with points. and Golden and Mark Zettel 
l purchase. One student may Office. Athletic and Convocation tigonish. Nova Scotia, has two minutes to play before a pair of t•ach added 10. Most noticeable
pr<•sent more than one ID, but may Cmter. Notre Dame, Indiana 
registPred two goals and eight free throws by Pete Farbatko and (;race statistic was the team's !?(
only purchsase one ticket ,per ID. -l6556. 
assists for the Irish three breakaway layups from Gus turnovers. 
... 


._________
--·---­





