On The Inside 
renovation ...page 5 LaFortune 
lnPIRG reorganizes ... page 6 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Tuesday, December 4, 1973
Vol. VII, No. 55 
Love quits as 
energy czar 
WASHINGTON (UPI)--John Love resigned as energy adviser Monday, a job he said could chop up a man, as adminlstration sources indicated that he had lost a bureaucratic battle with the Treasury Department.
The sources said gasoline rationing--which Love supported--was at the heart of the struggle. Treasury Secretary George P. Shultz, they said, wanted Love "to hold down the gloom and doom and try to sell the idea that America could solve its problems without resorting to rationing and other drastic fuel conservation measures." 
Both Love and his deputy, Chales Di Bona, resigned as the White House prepared to announce a new Federal Emergency Administration, headed by deputy Treasury Secretary William Simon. Administration sources said Love had become aware of the new administration only recently and that Simon and members of the Office of Management and Budget had put together the office "behind Love's back." 
A White House :spokesman said the announcement would be made Tuesday. 
"I fully agree that the time has come for creation of a new structure to deal with the energy crisis," Love said in a statement. "I certainly agree with the establishment of a new administration." 
At the same time, Love said in a broadcast in­terview with CB:S News: "In wishing Mr. Simon well, let me indicate that I think that this is going to be a problem and a job that,will chop up a good many people before it's finished." In a copyrighted story the Denver Post said Love had become frust;ated about his role. "To be honest," he was quoted as saying, "it's been difficult to try .to do anything meaningful and even get the attentiOn of the President." One administration official said Love "just didn't do the job." 
(continued on page 5) 

Observer lnsiraht 

Another season of bookstore buying ends with a 10-0 record. 



Hiker found dead in county jail 
lby Zenon Bidzinski and Jane Thornton Staff Reporters 
The weekend of Nov. 25 n1ade the issue of prison reform very important in the eyes of St. Joseph County officials after a 23-year-old Detroit man was found dead in his cell in the County Jail. 
Thomas S. Carter, from the Detroit area, was arrested for hitcl!lhicking that weekend, given a six­day jail sentencE~ and was apparently murdered by other inmates within 24 hours of his incarceration. 
Police later learned that Carter had walked out of a mental hospiltal in Flint, Michigan two days earlier and was hitchhiking to the West Coast. He had told his arresters that his name was Thomas Center. 
With the obvious assumption that something went wrong with the system, Prosecutor William E. Voor announced last Thursday morning that the St. Joseph Grand Jury is calling a special session for this week to investigate circumstances surrounding the hitchhiker's murder. 
Topics to be considered are many: Why was such a sentence given to a hitchhiker?; why was a first offender jailed in the same cell with other alleged "hardened" criminals?; who killed the Detroit youth? ; and where were the prison guards around 3 
p.m. that Saturday afternoon? 
On Nov. 21, thret: days before the murder, the Grand Jury filed their latest report in the Circuit Court on the St. Joseph County Jail. Based on a Nov. 19 tour of the jail, it stated that security measures seemd "quite adequate" and that "St. Josephy County should rightly be proud of the St. Joseph County Jail and Sheriff Dean Bolerjack." (Bolerjack is in charge of the jail.) 
That session of the Grand Jury was called because of earlier problems with jail security. There have been three attempted jail-breaks this year. The last attempt, in September, was suc­cessful. Two inmates, both later apprehended, escaped then. 
The same six-man Grand Jury is reconvening today. Bolerjack is expected to lead the group on their tour of jail facilities. 
Deputy Prosecutor Edward Chapleau recently said, "Based on what has happened in the past year, perhaps the jail is not being run properly." Chapleau will present the state's case to the Grand Jury. 
County Sheriff Bolerjack, Prosecutor Voor, and Deputy Prosecutor Chapleau were unavailable for comment on the case or on jail conditions. With the Grand Jury investigation pending, however, silence is a necessity for all city or county officials. 
The facts of the case aresimple. State police said Trooper Robert Hambright arrested Carter late Friday night for hitchhiking on the toll road afrer he had been warned twice not to do so. 
Clay Township Justice of the Peace Le Roy G. Plank sentenced Carter to six days in the city­county jail when he was unable to pay the $25 fine. According to Trooper Hambright, Center was hitchhiking from Detroit to Californimild hadonly 60 cents and a pack of cigarettes in his pocket. 
Jail guards found Carter "unconscious" just before 3 p.m. Saturday. Detective Sargeant Michael Horvath told reporters later that night that Carter was heard shouting in the cell block before 3 p.m. but was "unconscious" when a guard arrived to investigate. County police said the city fire am­bulancecrewwas unable to revive him and his body was taken to the McGann Funeral Home. 
Police reports indicated that the guards' television was on and the volume was turned up. It also indicated that a blanket was hung over the jail bars, further muffling any noise from the attack on the Michigan native. 
Deputy County Coroner Dr. Louis Grwinski, conducting the autopsy,said death resulted from a fractured bone in the neck ~caused by external strangualtion. He ruled the death an apparent homicide. Carter had been jailed with 14 other inmates in the cellblock. Voor said the Grand Jury has summoned seven of them to testify. 
Det. Horvath said that policetWElreattempting to locate possible relatives of the victim in Detroit and 
a brother in California but added that Carter earlier had listed no relatives when booked at the county jail. 
The problem for Notre Dame students obviously is the one of hitchhiking. No one wants to worry about fighting off a bunch of jail inmates after getting caught for lifting a thumb to or from Michigan. 
Justice of the Peace Plank said, however, that there is no cause for anyone to worry as long as they observe the simple Indiana laws for hitchhiking. The main point to remember, he said, is the hit­chhiking is not allowed on expressways or in­terstates, but is permitted on other .roads, such as U. 
S. 31, providing the hitchiker is along the side of the road. 
Plank explained that the fine for hitchhiking offense is $25, $24 court costs and $1 fine. 10ut of staters are required to pay the fine or receive a six day jail sentence. 
ND-SMC students, however, Plank said, receive no jail sentence for a hitchhiking offense. The JP expalined that the state knows where to find the students if they can't pay the fine. 
Carter, an out of stater, had no choice but to go to jail. As JP, Plank said he cannot dismiss the charges without the permission of the county prosecutor. The Clay Township Justice added that Carter welcomed the jail sentence because he wanted food and board. They murder while in jail was the first such occurrence in St. Joseph's County according to the JP. 
"I don't send many to jail," Plank said, "but the conditions were good the last time I was there." 
"I don't know if it's fair to put them (first of­fenders) in with the others, but that's their business at the jail," he added. "I condemn no man, God is the final judge," Plan finalized. 
The Justice of the Peace did not want to offer any solutions. But, if as he implies, the law itself is not to blame, then the enforcement of the law and its penalties are in question. 
j 
~~---~-------~­
•. ' 
, .•," .,• \ \• ," • '\ ; I":, 
the observer Tuesday, December 4, 1973 

warld 
briefs 
.. WASHINGTON-U.S. District Judge John J. Sirica spent more than four hours Monday in a "bug-proof" room listening to President Nixon's Watergate tapes, including one with a mysterious 18-minute gap. He had "no comment" 0111 what he heard. 
Wearing earphones for privacy and with only his law clerk present, Sirica began monitoring "exact copies" of the sub­ponenaed tapes after months of White House delay. 
Special Watergate prosecutor Leon Jaworski's staff consider the tapes "the single most important evidence" as to whether Nixon knew about the planning or cover-up of the break-in at Democratic National Headquarters in the Watergate complex in Washington las year. 
.. LOS ANGELES-Defendants in the Ellsberg psychiatrist burglary case were narrowed down to John Ehrlichman and two other former White House aides Monday with dismissal of charges against Egil "Bud" Krogh. 
On the motion of the district attorney, the one-time head of the White House "plumbers' squad" will not be prosecuted on burglary and conspiracy charges. 
WASHINGTON-Former United Mine Workers president W.A. "Tony" Boyle lost an appeal to theSupreme Court Monday and probably will have to begin a five-year prison sentence in a few weeks for illegally contributing union funds to political candidates. 
Boyle, who turned 72 on Saturday, also faces federal trial in Pittsburgh on charges he conspired to murder his former union rival, Joseph A. "Jock" Yablonski, and two members of Yablon­ski's family. 
BRUSSELS-Denmark said Monday it will ask the foreign ministers of the European Common Market set up a common oil pool to meet the energy crisis heightened by Arab cutbacks on oil shipments to Europe. 
"Just like the Common Market does not interfere in the internal 
cooperation between the Arab nations, so the Arab nations cannot 
decide what kind of a Common Market we want," Danish Foreign 
Trade minister Iv.ar Norgaard, chairman of the ministerial 
meeting, said. 
HOUSTON-The Skylab 3 astronauts, still battling a dwindling 
gas supply, needed 22 per cent more fuel than predicted Monday to 
roll the station over for two earth resources picture-taking sweeps. 
Some of the earth studies photo passes will probably be cuton on 
the 84-day flight, but flight controllers said there would be enough 
gas to turn the station's telescopes toward the comet Kohoutek. 
aft campus taday 
10:00-12:00 & 1:00-3:00 p.m.--color colloquium, sponsored by art dept., art faculty speakers, library aud. 1:00-4:00 p.m.--exhibit, works from into to art, basic sculpture, welding, and wood carving, isis gallery 
2:00 p.m.--film, civilization series, film seven, 'granderu and obedience,' engineering aud. 
3:00 p.m.--meeting, college of arts and letters college council, room 202, cce 
4:00 p.m.--lecture, afrotc lecture series, library aud.. 
4:30 
p.m.--lecture, 'the uptake and metabolism of vitamin b12 by the cestod stiromtra monsonoides,' dr. richard tkachuck, college of medicine, u. of iowa, galvin life science center aud. 

4:30 
p.m.--math colloquim, 'linear operators in hilbert space with indefinite metric,' prof. ky fan, room 226, computing center 


7:30-9:00 p.m.--symposium, 'african socialism: a non-marxist alternative?' profs. adebisi, bellis, horan, sponsored by black studies program, library lounge 
7:30 
p.m.--lecture, 'political ideology and the chicano movement,' dr. chris garcia, dept. of political science, u. of new mexico, sponsored by mexican-american lecture series, room 205, s'shag. 

7:30 
p.m.--discussion, looking into your financial future,'' a dream home: is there one in your future?' james f peacock, carrol hall, madeleva 


8:00 p.m.--lecture, 'political and civil liberties,' 'women':s rights,' and 'the role of the lawyer,' harriet pilpel, ny nawyer and author, library aud. 
8:30 p.m.--drama, 'thieves' carnival,' nd-smc theatre, washington haII 
Israel ~':ICC USeS Egypt of torturiiJtg prisoners of war 
TEL AVIV <UPI) -Israeli newspapers said Monday all Israeli soldiers captured by Egypt during the October Middle East war were tortured 

SMC to ha~"e bike stora!;Je this winter' 
by Judy Peterson Staff Reporter 

St. Mary's students who wish to store bikes during the winter months can do so on Thumday, December 6, from 9 a.m. -6 p.m. There will be no charge. Students are advised to bring locks and chains as St. Mary's cannot assume responsibility for the bikes. 
McCandless residents will :store their bikes in the trunk romn of McCandless Hall, which is lo<:ated in the basement. The room wiil not be locked and students will be able to remove bikes at will. 
Residents of Holy Cross, LeMans, and Regina will :;tore their bikes in Regina North. Temporary storage will be sup­plied in Regina north courtyard, which is partially enclosed. Students desiring temporary storage should have signed the lists in their halls last week. Permanent storage for bikes will be in Regina North basement and students will not have access to the bikes until spring, at which time two days will be allotted for their removal. 
and some were murdered in what they described as "a pictur-e of cruelty unmatched since the Nazi era." 
The Jerusalem Post said Israeli military authorities were collecting evidence on the alleged torture and killings and planned to submit it to the United Nations and the Interna­l ional Red Cross. Israeli officials also have charged Syria with war crimes. 
"All Israel prisoners of war regardless of rank were tor­tured," the Post said. "The facts built up to a picture of cruelty unmatched since the Nazi era ... " 
The newspaper said the 
m iii tary authorities would ac­
cuse Egyptian officials of 
having taken part in or 
permitted the murder of 
sever~! . prisoners, especially 
Israelt pilots who ejected safely 
from their damaged planes. 
The Post said some prisoners 
are believed to have died while 
under interrogation. 
Military sources said they 
had no information about the 
stories and could not comment 
on them. 
The newspaper Ma 'ariv said 
a typical example of the 
The Observer is published daily during the college seme!ller except vacations by the stuaents of the University of Notre Dame and St Mary's College. Subscription~ may be purchased for sa per semester ($14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame 
Indiana 46556. Second clas~ postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
Hairstylin~g ...with style 
+Award Winning Stylists +Unique Atmosphere 
+ Roffler Styling and Products 

First FlotCir, 100 Center 
Mishawal<a, Indiana 
Appointments Prefered, 255-6500 
Let us help you in your photo needs. Dave, N D Class of '71 Faye N D Class of '73 


PHOTC) WORLD 
DIVISION OF AULT PHOTOFINISHING LABORATORIES 1431 S. MICH 
2:14-4027 
Hours: 9-6, T-F 
9-8 M 
convenier1t FREE parking 

:~~t::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~ 
:l  10% OFIF  on anyth1ng  llll  
I  ~  
J!!  :~~~r~h5is~:,P;~ ~9~~  card  !jjj  

!::::::~:::::~:::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::!:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::!::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~;: 
tortures was that of David Senesh, a soldier who was captured Oct. 7, the second day of the war when Egyptians overran his post on the Suez Canal. 
During the trip to the Egyptian prison camp, Senesh told Ma 'ariv, he and other Israeli captives were continu­ously kicked, beaten and spat 
upon. 
Whippings and beatings were routine inside the camp, Senesh said, and the prisoners were forced to wash in foul sewer water. He said the Egyptians put one Israeli tank crew member on a "spit," bending him backward and tying his head to his heels, then rotating him on a pole while others beat him. 
Senesh said the torture 

continued until Red Cross 
officials were allowed into the 
camp three days before the 
prisoner exchanges started. 
Ma'ariv said most of the 

returning prisoners required 
treatment for lacerations and 
various internal injuries. It said 
some were in a state of mental 
shock and were unable to speak 
coherently. 


THIS SPACE CONTRIBUTED BV THE PUBLISHER 
Tuesday, December 4, 1973 the observer 
Won't 'twiddle thumbs' 
'" 

Love claims no access to White House 
DENVE-R <UPO John Love, who resigned Monday as energy advisor to President Nixon, said he ran into obstacles trying to make the President and top-level advisors aware of the seriousness of the nation's energy crisis, The Denver Post said m a copyrighted article Monday. 
Love, in an interview with Post Washington bureau chief Leonard Larsen, said he would return to law practice rather than stay in Washington "twid­dling my thumbs." . 
"To be honest, it's been difficult to try to do anything meaningful and even to get the attention of the President," said Love, the former governor of Colorado, who served as director of the White House Energy Policy Offi<:e. 
The White House, which accepted the resignation Mon­day afternoon, said a new "super agency" would be established to seek solutions to the nation's energy problems. The new agency, the Federal Energy Administration (FEA), job that needed doing anda·nd a larger staff than Love's suddenly it's become moreoffice had. 
vitally important with the
"I was sitting over here with Middle East situation. I am a
a small staff as an assistant to little upset with the way the
the President on energy mat­
termination was handled."
ters ... that would have been a Love confirmed that a largesuperfluous kind of thing part of his troubles with the<under the new program) and I administration involved ahad no reason to sit back here power fight between his officetwiddling my thumbs," Love and treasury officials, includingsaid. 
Secretary George P. Shultz and"I don't have any regrets at his deputy secretary, Williamcoming here," he said. "It's a 
P~r~ue president Hansen will keynote workshop 
Dr. Arthur G. Hansen, president, together to explore ways in which 
Purdue University, will be the public relations and admissions 
keynote speaker at the Com­personnel can work together to 
munications Workshop to be held provide more effective com­
at Saint Mary's today and munications with prospective 
tomorrow. This workshop is being students. 
sponsored by the Indiana Arthur G. Hansen is the eighth 
Association of College Admissions president of Purdue University, 
Counselors and Indiana College the first alumni to serve in this 
Public Relations Association. capacity. He has held that position 
Dr. Edward L. Henry, president since 1971, after serving as 
E. Simon. rnight do to the stock market. Simon has been named to "But like it or not, they're head the new FEA. going to have to come to 
Love said his strong stand in gasoline rationing," Love said: support of gasoline rationing "I just don't think they can get had angered treasury officials a (gasoline) tax through the because of what it (rationing) Congress." 
::P BOAC 747 EUROPE! 
TALK TO THE SPECIALISTS IN YOUTH TRAVEL 
Low, Low Prices ANY Destination CALL CLARK 234-2098 
what's the roar about? 

will have much more power 
Studen~~ bowl tickets sold 
in four hours Basic Grant applications 
by Ellen Duffy Staff Reporter 
Student ticket sales for the Sugar Bowl game ended abruptly at approximately nonn yesterday when the 1,000 tickets were sold out to seniors. Students began lining up outside the ACC Sunday night and by 8:00 a.m. there was a large crowd. 
The ACC was lO<:ked, and ac­cording to Don Bouffard, ticket manager, "Some students broke into the building at 4:00a.m." The doors were opened and students lined up at the tickE~t windows. 
Concerning a change in future ticket distribution, Bouffard said, "This system would work fine if we could trust the integrity of the students. If a senior wants to buy a ticket, that is his option, but he shouldn't give his ID to an un­derclassman. This is what causes the trouble." 
According to Bouffard, the great 
demand for tickets and the crush 
caused by seniors lending their 
ID's to underclassmen caused the 
disruption. 
of Saint Mary's will welcome the group and introduce Dr. Hansen. Dr. Hansen's address, "Com­munications and Your Public Image," will establish th purpose of the two-day conference. This is the first joint meeting of the two associations, which are gathering president of Georgia Institute of Technology. 
Hansen received his B.S. degree in electrical engineering and his master's degree in mathematics at Purdue. He received his doctorate in mathematics at Case Western Universitv. 
still available to freshman 
Students still have time to apply for some of the $122.1 million that 
is  available  in  the  Basic  
Educational  Oppor tunity  Grants  
program  for  the  1973-74  school  
year.  

Basic Grants, which are funded by the U.S. Office of Education, are available to first-time students who began their post-high school education or training after July I, 1973, on a full-time basis. These grants can be used at any eligible institution including regular colleges, universities, community or junior colleges, vocational or technical schools, and hospital schools of nursing -both public and private, profit and non-profit. 
Grants are based on a formula which takes into account the cost of tuition, fees, room board, books, supplies, and incidental expenses, and the amount the student and his or her family can contribute. The formula is applied consistently to all students throughout the country for the 1973-74 academic year. Awards range from $50 to a 

THERE ARE DIFFERENT WAYS TO: 
find peace, be of service, live out the Gospel, change the world. 
One of them is by helping to form brotherhood among all men and women as a Holy Cross Brother. 
For an opportunity to share your dreams and see how they line up witlh the vision of these men, see 
Brother Rtt:»bert Fillmore Wednesda)f, December 5th, between 10:00-4:30 Placement Office, Room 222 
maximum of $452 for each eligible student. 
John Ottina, U.S. Cmmissioner of Education, said, "Money that students receive under this program is free and clear; it is not a loan that has to be paid back." 
Students may obtain an ap­plication form for a Basic Grant through their financial aid officer or guidance counselor, or by writing to Box G., Iowa City, Iowa 52240. 

the Observer christmas party 


Frolics 


For all Observer People Dec. 7 8:00pm . Holy Cross Halfway House See ed1tors or department heads for tickets and more information 
We want everyone there. 
\. '. \ 
---~­


THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
P.O. Box Q 
Jerry Lutkus Dan Barrett

Art Ferranti Editor-in-Chie' 
Executive Editor The RallyExecutive Editor 
Went Pe(e)p
Dear Editor,
NEWS: 283-1715 
John Kloos In anticipation of a large crowd
EDITORIALS: 283-8661
Lee Gentine 
Advertising Mitnager to welcome home the number one

Business Manager BUSI"''-=:SS: ?A1-7471 
team in the nation, we placed our bodies and our beer high above the 

--------~-----=-~-=-=-~--------­
Tuesday, December 4, 1973 
expected crowd in a well-placed tree in the middle of the circle. 7:00 passed . . . 7: 15 passed . . . 7:30 passed and we stili waited for the crowd to show. The buses showed. 

The Ticket to Integrity 
The number one team showed. The number one coaches showed. And

Well, it happened again. With the grace besides, it's over for another year, isn't 
most loyal fans showed. As for the and agility of a herd of buffalos , the it? rest of the student body, they take Notre Dame student body bought their But while idealism is fine, something it for granted that we have been 
tickets to the Sugar Bowl game Monday else has to be taken into consideration: undefeated for the first time in the morning. With tempers flaring, elbows human nature. Idealism and "integrity" last 24 years. Maybe they take it 
for granted that Notre Dame's

jutting and even one near fist-fight, the seem to go straight down the drain when 
team HAS so much talent and so

thrice annual (football, hockey and bowl it comes to sheer greed. And when it depth, more so any
much than 

game) fiasco at the ACC ticket office comes to tickets to Notre Dame athletic other team in the nation. When was rounded out its schedule for 1973-74. events, greed seems to take precedE!nce the last time they were around, over ideals. when Notre Dame was on their
The situation Hence to shrug off thE~ problem is way to the national cham­
pionship???

It started shortly btHore 2 a.m., if the merely to avoid thinking about it and 
The Student Body showed what a

students claiming to be first in line can be resolving it. And what's not needed here; 
difference they could make at the

believed, when fans gathered outside the what is needed is a clear-cut plan for USC game. They won a reputationACC Gate 2 doors, complete with future times. that day. They blew it Monday blankets, thermoses and pillows. More The plan night. We can only hope that the joined them until a crowd upwards of 100 team does not suffer from their
Therefore, a suggestion of such a plan, lack of support.
suddenly spotted somebody running borrowed from at least one major-league Alabama chose to meet us in the around inside around 5: 30. 
football team: Sugar Bowl for the nationalBut the hundred sprawled before the Some agency, before students begin championship. That says a lot 
doors of the ACC were a far cry from a about our team. Does the
lining up should stand before the
"line": the one who got to the ticket STUDENT BODY think that much 
unopened doors of the ACC with a priority
window first depended on which door of our team???
list. As each fan comes to camp out Two Loyal Fans was opened first. And said opening 
before the doors, his name is entered on of the No. 1 Team. 
caused the first of the mad rushes when the list in the order he came. At uneven 
(names witheld upon request)

the "someone inside" opened those doors times, the roll call is made, making sure
early. Any "integrity" that ACC Ticket Editor's Note: The announcer in 
everyone on the list is still present.
Manager Don Bouffard wished for later the dining hall would have done
Once the doors are opened, potential well to consult The Observerfor the in the day was quite forgotten, as it ticket-buyers should be told that they can time of the team's expected arrival always is, in the furious stampede to see register only at the door of Gate 2. Once in the circle. Despite the editorial who can pimp the most people in line. 
registered, they may take their place which urged student's arrival to 
But the worst was not over yet. Even the circle at 7:30, the dining hall
with the others inside.
though the doors were open and the announcer apparently felt
With the opening of the ticket window
students were at the ticket window, there equipped to advise an arrival at
itself, the list wlll once again be called 7:45. Such expert advice led to thestill remained three long, lonely hours to out, distributing the tickets in the order late arrival of much of the student wait for the window to open. And those which students lined up originally. Any body and the band. The team,three hours saw little but a continuous leftover tickets after the first big crowd though late, arrived in the circle at 
flow of "friends" of the original cam­7:40 p.m. Indeed, The Observer
disappears would then go to anyone
pers taking their place in an already can sometimes be trusted ..... 
showing up at the window.
cro....;ded line, pushing the 4 a.m. fans The agency to organize such a set-'llp?
further and further back. 
Rightfully, it should go the ACC ticketThere remained one last insult: the sales office. After all, selling tickets istraditional rush to the window 30 minutes their business. However, if they continue before the opening, that memorable time 
to refuse to accept their responsibilities, An Ultimatumwhen everyone tries to see if the first guy perhaps Student Government, throughwill fit through the hole in the ticket the Ombudsman Service, could help out. Editor:window. And with that came the ad­It really is time to correct the We the undersigned, students of
ditions of even more "friends." the University of Notre Dame du
procedures that usually cause little but 
Lac, and members of the United

The apathy frustration, anger and injustice among 
Auto Workers have discerned that

students. With the above plan, perhaps
One would only have to wonder the the proposed 1974-1975 school year
that "integrity" so sorely lacking will calendar will cost us in excess ofreasoning behind. permitting this. to 
continue year after year. Sen~ors resurface. -Joseph Abell one week's wages ($200.00). It is in the light of this problem that we
remember it from their first footballlme; 
base our grievance.

the observer
freshmen have become initiated to Notre 
We demand that the university

Dame in the most effective way possible. Night Editor: Robert Baker compensate us for wages lost due 
And the apparent apathy on the part of Ass't Night Editor: Tim O'Reiley to the early return to school that Clay Editors: Tom Bundy, Marlene Zloza
the officials involved is nothing short of will be necessary should the 
Typists: C. Fourre, Barb Norcross, Howard Halle,
appalling. Ticket Manager Bouffard proposed calendar become ef­
Joe Abell 
fective.

shrugs off the ticket sales with a vague 
Compugraphic: Tom Wich We will be more than happy to
kind of idealism, trusting in "student 
Copy Editor: Marlene Zloza drop our demand if the university
integrity" to allay the situation. And Photo man: (minus photos) Jerome Phillips should reconsider the calendar and Night Controller: John Flannigan Layout: Tom O'Neil
daanesbury 1~11arry trudeau 

decide to start the 1974-1975 school 
year after Labor Day, as they have 
in the past. 
Should our demand not be met 

we shall be forced to· take more 
drastic measures, for which the 
U.A.W. is traditionally famous. 
U.A.W. local 383 
Bendix Hydraulics Div. 
St. Josephy Mich. 
Jude Bremer 
Paul M. Reimann U.A.W. local 600 Ford Engine Plant 
Dearborn, Mich. 
Kenneth K. Wright U.A.W. local 362 Gneral Motors-Chevy Div. Small Parts Plant Bay City, Mich. 
Provost's Pet 

Editor: 
Once again the administration has moved to solve a problem that does not exist, and in doing so has created a worse situation. The new calendar is as agreeable to the student body as the veal parmesan that we eat at the dining hall. So where did Father Burtchaell get the idea that we needed this new calendar? 
His first alleged source came from the academic council. This council, composed of about 32 administrators, 28 faculty, and seven students, decided that students needed a break in October which forced a pre-Labor Day start. Despite many lengthy discussions concerning the pros and cons of the proposal, a 20-19 voted "conclusively decided the issue," in Father Burtchaell's words. Unfortunately, Father Burtchaell failed to agree with me that it was significant that 28 members of the council didn't even vote. 
Instead, a much more in­formative rationale was offered by our Provost. He believes that a 9 day break in October is imperative for the student. It will break up the pressures of the first semester. It will outweight the losses we must accept when we begin school before Labor Day; lost revenue, lost job opportunities, added ex­penses of an October vacation etc .. 
Once again, some questions were left unanswered. With tuition expenses increasing yearl~, how does cutting down the most lucrative week of the summer help the students? With increasing restrictions and costs being levied on travel, how will 2 vacations help the student? And finally, Father Burtchaell, what is a student going to do with 9 days in October? Will he go swimming? Maybe he can go skiing? I wonder what kind of 9 day jobs are open? 
There are so many unanswered questions that should be covered, but space limits this. I would like to make two requests. The first involves those who oppose the calendar. Don't let the issue die! Voice your opinions. Contact the members of the Academic Council. 
Father Burtchaell says everyone 

should know who they are. Support 
the HPC and SLC. If the students 
give up, changing the calendar will 
be all that much harder. 
The second is directed to Father 

Burtchaell. Notre Dame stands 
out among other institutions 
because it possesses a strong 
community spirit. Don't turn your 
back to the people who are trying 
to rectify a problem that is ob­
viously with us. Students are 
pleading to you now, because we 
don't want to go through your one 
year trial run. We feel that we 
have been unjustly represented 
and we aren't willing to go through 
an entire year of hardship because 
your "pet" calendar is ready to go. 
Phil Byrne 
"':"!" rtl! ,.

~~~~------·--------~1 
r 
Tuesday, December 4, 1973 the observer 5 
Previews fo~r Eight Congressmen 
l A 
Nixon to reveal financial record 
~ 
WASHINGTON (UlPI) President Nixon called in eight congressional Republican lead­ers Monday to give them a preview of his personal finan­cial records. 
The White House has said Nixon will make the informa­tion available to the general public some time this week. Press Secretary Ro111ald L. Ziegler said it included every expenditure Nixon ha1s made since becoming President. 
"It was just sort of · an advance briefing to· let us know what they were doing," said Rep. John B. Anderson, Ill., one of those present at the meeting. He added that he had the impression that figures already reported "are accurate." 
According to Deputy Press Secretary Gerald L. Warren, Nixon spent about 20 minutes in the session, held in the Cabinet Roon1, and then turned the .job of detailed briefing over to his a ides. The meeting las ted two hours. 
Warren said White House aides Bryce N. Harlow, Ronald 
L. Ziegler, Alexander M. Haig Jr. and William C. Timmons also attended along with Kenneth Gemmell, a Phila­delphia attorney who special­izes in financial matters and who is donating his time to the White House to help prepare information to refute allega­tions of improprieties in the President's personal finances. Anderson said lawyer H. Chapman Rose of Cleveland said, "went over some very detailed summaries" of Nixon's tax returns for the years 1969 through 1972 "and the informa­
tion  is  going  to  be  made  
available  to  the  press  in  the  
next day  or  two."  

One of the subjects of discussion, Anderson continued, was Nixon's donation of his vice presidential papers, valued at $500,000, to the National Archives, and taken as a deduction. He said the lawyers told him "there was physical delivery of the papers prior to July, 1969, and that they're willing to submit the question to arbitration." 
Congress prevented deduc­tions for such contributions also was present. after July, 1969. Anderson was The two lawyers, Anderson Iasked what the lawyers meant 
Plans to renovate LaFortune stalled~: students are left out 
by R. Thomas Th111es Staff Reporter 
The LaFortune renovation project is not dead, but the student committee has been largely inactive for the past several weeks. 
The LaFortune Renovation Committee is responsible for conception, planning and promotion of the entire renovation project. In spring of last year the project took shape u111der. the guidance of the committee. Models were built, displays were set up and the entire student body was excitedaboutan Irish Pub and a place to socialize. 
In the fall, the committee ap­proached the trustees with a completed proposal of a workable student center. The committee was met with enthusiasti.c support and many requests to "go ahead." Cost was not mentioned as a problem and the project was given a high priority. 
Two weeks ago Vice President of Student Affairs Philip Faccenda announced that the project's cost was too great. He said a larger project, encompassing the entire LaFortune mall area, might be considered by the officE!rs of the University, but that the Irish Pub would not be accepted by the Trustees. 
Faccenda told the committee to be patient. The student committee hasn't met since that meeting. 
Committee member and senior government major Dan Schipp said, "We're just kind of waiting to hear from the vice presidents." He added that because of the delays on the part of the officers of the University that he "felt a little let down." 
Schipp noted that the committee had felt a great deal of ac­complishment by "guiding the University to such a big in­vestment." He regretted that the committee's student input wouldn't be as great within the new mall proposal. 
"We'll be working as consultants to a professional architect rather than having the plans come from the committee like they should," emphasized Schipp. 
Another committee member, senior pre-professional major Dave Caruso, said he was "very disappointed." 
"We put in all that wo:rk and all of a sudden we just don't know where we are," said Caruso. 
He added, "There's been so much student input all all[)ng that it feels like the students have been stripped of something they have a right to." 
The cost factor involved in this project was the subject of a former committee member's complaint. He recalled that cost was never mentioned last year or fall of this year. 
"Only not cost is being men­tioned as a problem. Cost sounds like almost too pat an excuse," the former member claimed. 
He also claimed that the officers have been unjust to the committee. "The people on the renovation · committee have put a lot of time into this project and they deserve more than rhetoric," he concluded. Also speaking about project cost Terry Skeehan, a senior ac­counting major said that the priorities for the project have been distorted by the administration. "The word was always go ahead. 
We went ahead. Now, all of a sudden the project's out of our hands," said Skeehan. 
Skeehan also observed that "most of the members of the committee are seniors and won't even benefit from the student center." 
The claim that the committee was "shut off" by the officers of the University was repeated by all the committee members 
questioned. The delays were particularly discouraging to senior management major Steve Carter. Carter claimed that, "The Ad­
ministration  lost  touch  with  the  
committee.  It's like  a  case  of  
administrative shock."  

· Carter cited student input as the 
most valuable asset of the project. 
He said further that elimination of 
student input would be ridiculous. 
"I don't know why we would be finished as a committee. I only hope the officers listen to what we have to say," said Carter. 
Disappointment in the com­mittee was not voiced by senior class members only. Sophomore American Studies intent Sue Daren summarized the frustration of the committee members by saying: 
"I was really angry at first, but I'm just disappointed now. By consulting professional architects the administration really ignored us. The committee could really be behind the administration but they've got to readapt our student philosophy. The fact is that the architecture firm can't grasp what the students need. The officers 
. really hurt a lot of people. I wish 
they'd give us the chance to help 
again." 
Free 'quiet night' concert planned 
Student Government in co­perform their original versions of ordination with Student Activities acoustic music with Beckles ac­Director Fr. Dave Schlaver will companying on electric bass. present a "Quiet Night Concert" to The concernt will begin at 9:30 the Notre Dame student body on p.m., to prevent early evening Monday night, December 10, in studying conflicts with many Washington Hall. students. A vast improvement over 
Appearing in this free show will sound and staging of previous free be Jon Terlep, Dave Gray, Randy Student Union concerts is Sarton, along with Jerry Beckles. promised. Students are advised to Terlep, Gray, and Sarton will come early due to limited seating. 

Love resigns 
(continued from page 1) 

:'Th~ problem is getting action," another source said. Love complained that he didn't have access to ~he .:resident. _That shows there wasn't any actiOn. Love said he preferred returning to Colorado and practicing law rather than as the Post pu~ it, "sitting back here and twiddling my thumbs m some superflous job." · 
_Lov~, who resigned as governor of Colorado a.t ~IXO~ s request to take the job in July, offered to 
assist the development of a new administration in any way possible, but administration sources said Love had been offered the job of ambassador to C~n~da ~nd a post in the new energy ad-. ministratiOn, but he declined both of lthem. 
about arbitration. 
. "They meant they recognized there wasn't any point in going to the commissioner of Internal ' Revenue because after all he's a presidential appointee, whe­reas the Joint Committee on Internal Revenue and Taxation would be the body in the other 

branch of government." 
•
Attending the session were ~ Sens. Hugh Scott, Pa.; Robert ~ 
P. Griffin, Mich; Norris Cotton N.H.; and John Tower, Texas: • Aside from Anderson those • 
. ' ~

attendmg from the House side •I were vice president-designate Gerald R. Ford, John J. Rhodes, Ariz., and Leslie C. Arends, Ill. 
MISSED OUT? 
The requirement for graduation from Notre Dame is one year of PE or ROTC. Now that many of you have sampled the physical education program you might consider Army ROTC this coming semester. You can catch up with. your contemporaries already in ROTC and do not have any commitmentto further military service during the next year and one half. Look the program over. MS I classes are scheduled for 09TT. If you desire further information, stop by the Army ROTC offices on the Notre Dame campus or call 
Captain Welme• al 283-62~ ROTC ­

Like to PLAY••• 

pinball, air hockey, foosball or pool? 500 free games at 



Nickie's 
this Thursday Nite starting at 9:00 until the last game is over. 
ATTENTION GIRI.S: 

Sign up only on this Thursday Nite for the girls' pool tournament to be held on the following Thurs. No entry fee (first 32 girls) · Prizes: 1st -$25 gift certificate 
2nd -$10 gift certificate 
~~~~-~---------~ 
the observer Tuesday, December 4, 1973
6 
.. ... . 

~ . -' '.. ~. . ) .:' ..;.' 
Campus briefs • • • 
Bodnar exhibits photos during December at SMc 
An exhibit of photographs by Kathleen Bodnar will be on display during the month of December at 
~:ry~~reau Art Gallery, Saint 
Also on display during December will be etchings by Frances Lerner, from the University of Iowa, and ceramics by the Indiana University 
graduate potters. 

Band announces Terry Lectures at Yale University 
by Jackie Simmons Staff Reporter 
InPIRG , the Indiana Public Interest Research Group, began its reorganization on the Notre Dame campus Monday night with an In PIRG representative from the IU Bloomington campus, Mark Riddle. Riddle, who defined In­PIRG as a "Student controlled Nader's Raiders group," believes the support InPIRG received two years ago at Notre Dame can be revived. 
During the spring of 1972, one hundred students were involved in a petition drive at N.D. which resulted in a favorable response from 75 per cent of the student body to the proposed voluntary $3.00 fee to be assessed to each student at the beginning of the year. However, the fee, which at the time was the only means of financialsupportfor the group, was never established even though the administration approved it. The Indiana University group had been unable to get a similar financial system set up there. Thus the InPIRG system never reached a statewide level and the Notre Dame group dissolved. 

However, with a grant from the Irwin-Sweeney Miller Foundation, InPIRG is now gaining support once again on a statewide basis. The money from this grant, as well as from students' fees is used to hire lawyers, environmental protectionists, and other professionals to help the students attack community and consumer issues such as sex and race discrimination, or tenant-landlord relations. 
While independent PIRG's now exist in twenty states, examples of the work done in Indiana include a fight against the rate increase by Indian Bell Telcvhone as well as a protest against the cut back of South Shore service. The aim is to 
r 
• 
will be staying. A pep rally will 
follow the parade at the hotel. 
The band will have a dress 
rehearsal in the stadium on the 31st 
and will be in their game seats by 
5:30P.M. 

The band members will return to 
South Bend on the afternoon of January lst. 
Fr• Hesburgh 
tO leCtUre at Yale 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University of Notre Dame, will deliver the 
Bowl schedule 
Director of Notre Dame Bands, Robert O'Brian, has announced the 
Band's  itinerary  for  the  Sugar  
Bowl trip.  
Transportation  has  been  

arranged from Chicago and New York for band members on the evening of December 27th. Band rehearsals will be held in the mornings and afternoons of December 28th and 29th. 
After a morning practice on December 30th, the band will participate in a parade at 6:30p.m. 
The parade will start on Bourbon Street and proceed down Rampart Street to the Mariott Hotel where many Irish supporters this Wednesday through Friday <Dec. 5-7). 
Father Hesburgh's three lec­tures have the overall title of "The Year 2,000: Dream or Night­mare?" and deal with such issues as ecumenism, population, education, international relations, and Third World development as they might evolve in the third millennium. 
The object of the endowed lec­ture series is the "assimilation and interpretation" of the results of scholarly research and their "application to human welfare, especially by the building of the truths of science and philosophy into the structure of a broadened and purified religion". 
Father Hesburgh was given an honorary degree by Yale in 1971. 
InPIRG begins reorganizati<>n 
at Notre Dame after two yecErs 
get positive action as a result of Riddle and John Bachman (aintensive reasearch. 
member of the first ND InPIRG 

On some campses students have group) expect some students from become involved through work­the 1972 group to return, new in­study programs, or have picked up terested students are also needed. 
3-6 hours credit for their work. While the organizers Mark 
IL:··i&11fijiiiiii!M•••:. 
I I WITH COUPON I 
, l FULL EI&JIE TUIE-UP l 
J~:~s2o..j
. . 
I ANY 6 CYL. U.S. AUIO 1 
! ADO 54 FOR 8 CYL. CARS.! 
I AIR COND. CARS 52 MORE.: : INCLUDES PLUGS, POINTS,, 
: CONOENSF"R, CHECK : 
1 CHOKE, TIME ENGINE, • : BALANCE CARBURETOR : 
:·--··-•••-.-·-••••·-••• -c
····tz·ti!Rill8 iilh&:!ij -~ 
FROIT EID al 
WITH COUPON  :  
ALI&IIEIT  ~  l.  
MOST  I  
AMERICAN  ;fiir.-=  :  
CARS  -~  :  

PARTS EXTRA IF NEEDED 
.
,......................... 
· · ·p s 'JUH+a:~np.ue· • · 
.ITH COUPON 
BRAKE RELIIIIIIG 

INCLUOES FULL 
INSPECTION, 
FLUID AND CLEAN. 
~:: ~a8UfMji.:jujj:w: =: 
j s;;~;7JIJ' 
1 SALE 



!JI!
. 
$444 
PLUS IISTlWTIOI 
Conce.rt poll' sent 
to 300 studE~nts 
A student survey to determine concert preferences has been sent out to a random sample of Notre Dame students. Ken Lee, a junior marketing major, in conjunction with the concert production staff of the Student Union, is in charge of the project. 
The purpose _of th~ stud~ is not 
only to ascertam which artists the student body would like to see, but also whether they are willing to pay the ticket prices necessary to pay those artists. 
The 300 students who received 
the survey are urged to return 
them in the enclosed stamped 
envelope by this Friday. 
Julliard Qu~artet at St. Mary's on Wednesdlay 
The Julliard String Qua.rtet will perform in concert Wednesday, December 5, 1973, at 8:00p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium , Saint Mary's. The world-famous en­semble will be appearing as part of the College's continwng Per­forming Arts Series. 
Their appearance at Saint Mary's is part of their annual 

Snow Recap:s 
$2295 560-15 
(plus F.E.T.J 

Premium 4 Ply Nylon 

Snow Tire!; 
F78-14 Blackwalls start as low as 
$1695 
(plus F.E.T.) 




20% OFI= 
on all tail pipes, exhaust pipes, and mufflers. 
..................... 
Discount TirE~ Service 
50595 U.S. 31 North 
272-1023 
OPEN DAILY T-IL 6 SATURDAY·TJ{ 4 ·. 
I I • 
' f '\ <I ~ • • <I l ~ I f ~ I •
. .' 

coast-to-coast tour. Other events scheduled in the 
Tickets for the Quartet's per­Performing Atts Series include the formance at Saint Mary's College Harkness Ballet Company on are $3.50 for adults, $2.00 for February 13,1974, and the New students, and may be obtained York City Center· Repiortory from the College's Office of Theatre Company on March 3 and Programming. 4, 1974. 
NOTICE 
The Dec. 7 issue of The Observer will be the last of the semester. 
The advertising deadline for this issue has-been moved up to 5:00 p.m. Dec. 5 
RESERVATIONS 284-4176 Bus. Hrs.

~ ~ ~t 
283-7054 Show Nites 
Student · Faculty 
ND"'8MC Staff

SMC 
THEATRE $150 
SEASON 1973-74 
Thieves' Carnival 
Jean Anouilh's merry masquerade Dec. 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 at 8:30p.m. Washington Hall {Notre Dame) 
social commission presents A TRADITIONAL EVENING OF PANDEMONIUM· 
THIS SATURDAY AT THE SOUTH BEND ARMORY 8:30-12:30 
LIVE MUSIC -t :J: BREW -PEANUTS m 

-
-
-n
-
z 
LIMITED TICKETS ON SALE NOW )> $2.50 per PERSON AT THE DINING 
r­
HALLS AND LA FORTUNE TICKET 
CA
..
WINDOW. .. 
-n 
r­
-
NO TICKETS WILL BE 

SOLD AT THE DOOR 
FREE BUS SERVICE AVAILABLE 
SCHEDULE: Leave N D Circle: 8, 8: 15, 8:30, 8:45, 9, 9: 15, Leave SMC (stop sign by Lemans): 8:05, 8:20 
8:35, 8:50, 9:05, 9:20 ·.·Leave Armory: 11:30, 11:45, 12:00, 12:15, 12:30 
.. ' 

'!(.. (,. 
.\
; ' ' ' 

l 
I 
Tuesday, December 4, 1973 the observer 7 • 
I 
1 
I 
I 
Campaign spending reform bill killed «:Ifter Senate fillibuster 
managed only a 49-39 vote to By DON PHILLIPS shut off debate, 10 votes less 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -Sen­than the required two-thirds, ate liberals, unable to break a and an Allen motion to strip the filibuster, gave up thE!ir battle amendment from the bill failed for federally financed presiden­by only one vote -42-43. tial elections Monday a1fter they Senate Republican Leader were promised early action on Hugh Scott, a cosponsor of the a similar bill next year. campaign reform measure, 
The compromise agreement, then offered essentially the a victory for Sen. James B. same motion after the chair­Allen, D-Ala., the White House man of the Rules Committee, and conservative Republicans, Sen. Howard Cannon, D-Nev., ended a four-day-old !tilibuster promised to bring out a that had threatened to leave the campaign spending measure government unable to pay its within 30 days after the Senate bills or its employ,es after convenes next year. Thursday. Scott called the situation "a 
The liberals had attempted to Mexican standoff." attach the campaign reform "We are hurting the coun­measure to a bill increasing the try," Scott said. He was joined limit on the national debt, but by Senate Democratic Leader Allen would not give up the Mike Mansfield, who introduced floor Friday -a filibUtster that a series of cloture petitions to prevented the bill from going to halt the debate. a conference with the House. The Scott motion passed 48­
The liberals gave up after the 36, automatically passing the second of two cloture motions bill to increase the limit on the 
Shippin~1 cut 25 percent 
due to fuel shortage 
NEW YORK (UPI) The oil shortage has stranded many tankers and merchan1t vessels around the world, Platt's Oilgram Price Service reported Monday. 
The daily newsletter for the oil industry, a McGraw-Hill publication, said deliveries of bunker oil, the common ship fuel, have been cut about 25 per cent by major suppliers and that black market prices of bunker oil have jumped sky 
LOWEST YOUTH FARES 1r0 EUROPE 









$100 
Ages 12 thru 2:J 
~iii' 
Round-trip jet, New York to Luxembourg in the heart of Europe, Sept. thru May for stays of up to a year. Show proof of age. Book within 30 days of your flight. 
YOU CAN BE IN EUROPE TOMORROW! Icelandic Airlines also offers one-week car, rail and ski tours to Europe, Nov. thru March. Get details on our youth and student fare·s and lowest-cost tours to Europe of any scheduled airlin•e. See 
your travel agent. 
rT"o:iCe'landiC"'A;riTnes--·---, 
630 Fifth Ave., N.Y., N.Y. 10020 
(212) PL 7·8585. Toll Free outside 
N.Y. State (800) 221-9760 Send folder CN on Lowes!: Youth Fares to Europe D Tours 0 
Name·------­Street_______ City _______ State.____Zip _____ My travel agent is ______ 
ICELANIJ'IC
L----------·---J 
high. One major shipping line. told Platt's Oilgram it is paying $85 a ton on the black market for bunker oil that sold for $25 
a  ton  in  October  in  Italy.  A  
year ago  the price  was $12.50  a  
ton.  

Platt's said at least 20 ships are stranded for lack of fuel in Japanese harbors, six in South African ports, and at least one large tanker is marooned in a shipyard. 

national debt to $475.7 billion. The previous limit was $465 billion, but the limit automati­cally dropped to $400 billion at midnight Friday, making the government legally overdrawn and unable to borrow money. 
The financing amendment would have granted each major party candidate for President about $21 million in tax checkoff money and prohibited private contriutions for the general election. Presidential primary candidates would have received about $7 million in matching money. 
Sen. Russell Long, D-La., a supporter of the campaign reform measure, issued Treas­ury figures showing that the government would have enough cash to continue paying bills, salaries and benefits through Thursday, but not after that. 
Long made one last-ditch effort to save the campaign reform bill by trying to attach it to a bill suspending import <;luties on certain shoe-making machinery. But Allen, who held the floor, refused to allow the bill to be considered. 
The Democratic proponents of the campaign spending bill, led by Sens. Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass., Walter Moo­dale, D-Minn., Long and Mans­field, wanted to send the bill to President Nixon in some form forcing him to veto it if h~ dared. 
But the liberals were forced to contend not only with the filibuster and behind-the-scenes White House lobbying but with a split with the Watergate Committee, which also is looking into campaign spending reform. 
SHARE THE RIDE WITH US THIS CHRISTMAS AND GET ON TO AGOOD THING. 
Us means Greyhound. and a lot of your fellow students who are already on to a good thing. You leave when you like. Travel comfortably. Arrive refreshed and orb You'll save money, too. over the increased star y fares. Share the ride with us on weekends. Ho11aay:>. Anytime. Go Greyhound. 
GREYHOUND SERVICE 
ONE­ROUND­ YOU CAN  YOU  
TO  WAY  TRIP  LEAVE  ARRIVE  
Cleveland, Ohio  $13.45  $25.60  1:45pm  7:10pm 
Detroit, Mich.  $10.50  $19.95  3:50pm  8:55pm 
NY, NY  $39.40  $74.90  1:45pm  8:45pm 
Philadelphia, PA $35.60  $67.65  1:45pm  6:00am  
Wash, DC  $33.80  $64.25  7:45am  11: 15pm  

Ask your agent about additional departures and return trips. 
Greyhound Bus Terminal 210 West Monroe 2876541 
Greyh~~
A changefor 1he better 
TB TESTS 
MANDATORY FOR TUTORS 
given 11-2 p.m.  Tues~  Dec. 4  
checks 11-2 p.m.  Fri  Dec 7  
at Lafortune  

all must report 
call 5731 for info 
The Performing Arts Series presents .... THE JULLIARD STRING QUARTET 
Wed. Dec.S 8:00pm O'Laughlin Auditorium 
Admission: $3.50, Students -$2.00 Reservations: 4176; 239 Moreau Hall 

CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 
Need secondhand or new kick potter's wheel. Ca II 259-2382or 271-7798. 
Hockey shinguard s + helmet. Call Joe 1416. 
RIDES WANTED 
Need ride to S. Fl a . Can I eave Dec. 20. Call 768 3. 
Need ride to S. La . for Xmas. Call Rick 233-3945. 
Need ride to India napol is Dec. 7. Please call 328 3. 
FOR SALE 
MEERSCHAUM PIPES! 
Exceptional values, per­sonalized service. Catalog. 
PMP Co. Box 444 Gaither­
sburg, Md. 20760. 
BANKRUPTCY SALE: 1 pr Koflach Racer Plastic Ski Boots. Size 9112. Excellmt condition. Must se II $35. Set of Wilson Clubs. 2, 3, 4 5,6,7,8,9, lrons,no woods. with new bag. Lund skik. resurfaced over summer. with Nothlan toe a1d thunder heel bindings. $45. 
call Kn ute 233-394 5. 
IMPORTED MERCURY WATCHES: 1-17 jewels 3 styles, perpetual calendar. guarenteed. $13.50-$15. Call 
Frank 3119. 
Selling out to get married. Best offer on flllax. reg. trig., red 5hag,9' x 12'. Ches tof drawE!'s, 01air, bookshelves. Call Mike 8183. 
Stereo  turntalbe 8 track  
speakers  receiver.  Used  1  
semester. 1067.  

10 speed bike for slae. Cheap. Asking $50. John 8549. 
for some of the best chrishmas gifts in town at th e best prices in to\M'l come by pandora's 602 
n. st. louis from 1 0 to 7 evEf'y day. 
FOR RENT 
4 BR house, recreation, room, study, fireplace, \Mlll to \Mlll carpet, just rennovated completely furnished. Jan semester or immediate. oc­cupation. AI Brasseur 289-2461. 
. one BR apt. near NO. Fur­nished nicely. Rate quite reasonalbe. Call after 6pm. Mrs. Kenelly 233-4487. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost class ring '75 lt. blue stone, name Mike Diener in­side. Reward. No questims asked. 1470. 
Stolen Mens bright orange 10 speed Atala racing bike with bookr.ack. From west entrace O'Shag. PleasecaiiAnn. 1346. REWRD. 
Lost camel coat Le Mans. 
Call 4050 , 5373. Reward. 
Lost dass ring JL W '74. Auqa 
stone. Reward. Call 7877. 
NOTICES 
Morrissey Loan F und can loan up to $150 at 1 per cent ineterst. 1 day waiting perios. Basement of La Fortune. 11:15-12:15 NV::in Fri. 
got books you doni want? come to pandora's from 22:30 -3:30 and we'll buy them paperbacks or testbooks. 602 n. st. louis. 
Have your bike winterized. Will not rust, even if 1ft out all winter. Call 7J2-8697. 
Rides from Indy or Luisville to Sugar Bowl $50 round trip. Leave 12-8 return Jan. l. Call (317) 257-0628. 
Rides from Chic ago Indy or louisville to Sugar Bowl $50 Leave Dec. 28 returne Jan. l. Call (317) 251-4402. 
Important meeting of NO ski racers Thurs. D ec.6 7 t:rn. Room 1-C La Fort uen. 
' PERSONALS 
Poor D:mer(Knute ) selling all worldly pssession s to fincace trip to sugar bow I . Experince of helping somes one less for­tunatethan your se If. See FOR SALE ection for details. 
To the assorted guests We.ll win nest time! Bozo Deb­+Bozo Kath 

Chris, Congratulations! You have 
certainly written a PAIGE of 
history with your GREat score. 
the mosquitoes 



----------------------------------------------------~ 
the observer Tuesday, December 4, 1973
8 

Irish rally, nip Buckeyes •



1n OT 
by Vic Dorr But the Buckeyes, 81-75 overtime winners against the Irish last year, 
Sports Editor 
weren't content with anything so It wasn't an easy win, and it may shaky as a tie. They streaked to not have been an artistic win. But another six-point advantage, 33-27 

nothing comes easily against Ohio with 2: 19 left, and it took John State at Columbus, and at 9:30 last Shumate's short jump shot just 47 night none of coach Digger Phelps' seconds before the half-time break 
young, scrappy cagers could have to pull Notre Dame to within four, cared less about the aesthetic 39-35, at intermission. quality of their second triumph of 
. Notre Dame's shooters, perhaps the 1973-'74 basketball season. 
disturbed by the overflow crowd in Ohio State's St. John's Arena, wereWhat they did care about was a badly outgunned during the first 2076-72 overtime victory over coach minutes--44.8 per cent to 32.4 perFred Taylor's Buckeye's, a victory cent--and only the bruising board
which seemed completely out of work of junior center Shumate and reach on several occasions and a freshman forward Adrian Dantley victory which had to be rescued, kept the Irish close during the first finally, be an eleventh hour shot period of play.
by--who else?--junior guard Dwight Clay. But if the Irish had to rely 
mainly on their rebounding skills Clay connected on an 18-foot during the first half, they parlayed jump shot from the left side of the both shooting and rebounding into lane with just four seconds left in a second half comeback that had regulation to tie the game at 67, the Buckeye crowd in a frenzy up 
until the final gun.
and the Irish, revitalized by Clay's heroics, surged away from the A pair of short-range jump shots Buckeyes during the last two 
by Shumate sliced Ohio State'sminutes of the extra period to lead to two, 39~37, just momentsclaim their second win in as many into the second half, but the Bucks outings. 
answered with a pair of buckets of their own to pull back to a six-pointBut before Phelps' Irish could cushion. Dan Gerhard's long bomb 
even look to their marvelously cool made it 45-39 with 17:47 left, but point guard, they had to thwart the that Buckeye tally tirggered an homestanding Bucks time and Irish spurt which kept the game
time again. Ohio State jumped close the rest of the way.into a quick 6-0 lead before Notre Dame could even dent the Four unanswered scores--the scoreboard, but the Irish battled first a layup by Shumate, the last back to tie the game at 14 and an eight-footer by forward Gary again at 20--the latter deadlock Novak--gave Notre Dame its first coming with 8: llleft in the opening lead of the second half, 47-45, and half. neither team held a lead larger 
Split salvages ND's ice hockeyweekend 
by John Fineran DeLorenzi attempted to shoot, he was hooked by Lindsay Thompson 
It had been a long week for the and checked by an undeterminable Notre Dame hockey team. It player, reinjuring his right started after the second loss, an shoulder. Thompson went off for overtime one, to Colorado College his misdemeanor at 6:20. during Thanksgiving break, Sm'ith sent freshmen Roger continued when Ian Williams and Bourque over the boards for the Brain Walsh were suspended, and Irish powerplay, and the reached its peak Friday night newcomer got results. After when Denver handed Notre Dame breaking up a play at center ice, a 6-4 loss. Bourque saw Pat Conroy 
steaming down the left wing, fedBut, it was fitting Walsh would him the puck, and Conroy's 40-footbe the hero yesterday afternoon. 
wrister beat Lo Presti.
The freshman's goal at 2:18 in Notre Dame made it 2-1 at 13:52overtime gave the Irish the win when Bumbacco, Alex Pirus andthey desired, 4-3, and a ~plil with Schafer so confused the PioneerDenver. The victory broke Notre defense with their stickhandling
Dame's three game losing string that Bumbacco was left unat­and made the Irish 3-6-1 for the tended to Lo Presti's right for an season. 
easy feed from Schafer. Eddie Notre Dame had led 3-1 going waited to make sure the Denver 
into the third period, but Alex goalie would commit himself, and Shibicky's bouncing goal and Rick then put it by Lo Presti for his Bragnalo's qeflection with three second goal of the year.seconds remaining in regulation The same trio accounted for sent the game into the sudden­Notre Dame's third goal at 18:43. death session. Denver had pulled Schafer dropped the puck to goalie Pete Presti for the sixth Bumbacco, and the resultingattacker. slapshot stunned Lo Presti long 
"It was a good, team effort," enough for Pirus to hit one of his coach Lefty Smith said. "It own into the net. It was the fresh­showed that our team has great man's first goal at Notre Dame. 
character. It would have been 
DeLorenzi returned to the ice in easy to take and sag after the scoreless second period, but Bragnal's goal, but we took it right Notre Dame was to suffer two 
to Denver." other injuries during the game. Ric Schafer, who has been Paul Clarke was hit in his right foot outstanding all season despite' the with a shot, and X-rays will be 
Notre Dame record, came up with taken to determine the extent of the shot which Walsh deflected for the injury. the winner~ Eddie Bumbacco, who Steve Curry went sprawling into 
5Cored his second goal of the the Irish net after taking a Denver 
season during the Notre Dame · skatetip back in the head. After three-gaoi outburst against Lo being administered to on the Presti in the first •anza, fed the bench, he returned. la3s to Schafer. 
Mark Kronholm made 37 saves Denver broke ou' in front at 4:15 in the game, as did LoPresti, some .vhen Rick Pre: on deflected the them brilliant,.and he received 
3ragnalo's wide ~, ot in mid-air help wh~rt needed from his team­>ast Kronholm. 'Jotre Dame mates, particualarly defensemen ame back, a when Ray Curry, Jack Brownschidle, Les than two points during 15 minutes or regulation time. 
With just under four minutes let: in the game, Novak whirled down the lance with a lead pass from Dantley and scored from close range to tie the game again at 65. But OSU's 6-7 Wardell Jackson canned a jumper with 2:05 left to make it 67-65, and the two clubs traded time outs, steals, missed shots and fouls during the next two minutes until Clay worked himself into position for his tying shot. 
Ohio State had a chance to ice the game with :09 remaining, when Gary Brokaw committed his fifth personal foul and sent OSU's Jackson to the line with a one­and-one 
But Jackson missed the front end, and the Irish converted the rebound into another patented Dwight Clay finish. The diminuitive guard came back with a fall-away jumper one minute into the the overtime frame to give the Irish the lead for good, 71-69, and five ND free throws over the last 90 seconds--one by Shumate, two by Dantley, and two by Clay--put the game away for Phelps' cagers. 
John Shumate, who is molding his early 1973 pace after his late '72 pace, led all scorers with 25 points. Brokaw collected 15, Clay 15, and Dantley 12 for the Irish, while Ohio State's Ratella netted 16, Dan Gebhard 15, and Steve Wenner 11. 
Notre Dame's next basketball outing will be a Thursday road game against the Northwestern Wildcats. Tip-off time for that game is set for 8:05p.m., est. 



Notre Dame's ice hockey team ended a string of setbacks on Sunday afternoon, with a 4-3 OT win over 
Denver. 

Larson, Clarke, and Bourque. lackadaisically slapped the puck. down sufficiently to prevent a 
The referees, Bob Gilray and Perhaps Byers' shot was unex-score. John McGonigal, called only 15 pee ted, for LoPresti hardly moved After Pearson's goal, Notre penalties, surprisingly only four of as the puck ripped into the net at Dame attempted to tie by pulling them, two each game, against the 6:17. Kronholm. The strategy back­Irish. Notre Dame had entered the Denver took a 2-1 lead into the fired, however, as Preston ham­series with 165 penalty minutes in second period, only to have Conroy mered one into an open net with 18 eight contests. tie it at 53 seconds. The Pioneers seconds remaining for the 6-4 final. 
With a little bit of Irish luck, went up 3-2 on Bruce Affleck's "I'm still convinced Notre Dame Notre Dame could have won shortahnaded goal, but Conroy's is going to win some hockey Friday's encounter as well. Four left wing, Larry Israelson, tipped games--and a lot of them," times, Denver took a one-goal lead, in a pass from DeLorenzi at 9:54. Murray Armstrong, the Denver and four times, Notre Dame dug • Denver's Mike Busniuk and coach, said afterwards. "They are down and came up with the tying Notre Dame's DeLorenzi traded a big team, the biggest we've seen goal. The leading goal just didn't third-period goals to make it 4-4, this year. They skate well. bounce Notre Dame's way, and but it could have easily been 5-4 "They got four goals on us," after defenseman John Pearson's Notre Dame. Armstrong concluded. "They third-period marker gave Denver DeLorenzi was tripped from could have scored many more." a 5-4 lead, the Irish were defeated. behind with 1:29left in the second Indeed, Notre Dame could have 
With the Pioneers leading 1-() stanza, and referee McGonigal Friday night, but four goals was all early in the game, sophomore Tim awarded the Irish player a penalty the Irish needed Sunday afternoon Byers and senior Mike Tardani got shot. Raymond took the puck at to make what could have been a Notre Dame a shorthanded goal. the blueline, skated in on LoPresti, disappointing weekend a very Tardani fed Byers, who but the goaltender cut the angle pleasant one instead. 
Ly'_______________________________________ 



