On The Inside 
Letters to a Lonely God .. page 5 'Louie's' is in good shape .. page 6 


serving the notre dome -st. mary's community
Vol. VIII, No.8 
Friday, September 14, l9n 
UAW,·Chrysler call for news blackout 
By EDWARD LECHTIN 
UPI Auto Writer 

DETROIT <UPI) -The Unit­ed Auto Workers and Chrysler Thursday night imposed a complete news blackout on their auto contract talks, just 29 hours away from a possible crippling auto strike Friday night. 
The news blc. kuut is tradi­tionally a sign that a break­through has bePn accomplished in the negotiatwns and they have reached the staged where bargainers are relucta. · to make public statements. In past years, a blackout was imposed three or four days before contracts expired. 
The negotiations have been under a partial blackout or more than a week as Chrysler and UAW bargainers discussed economic on an "off the record" basis. 
The total news blackout came after Chrysler reportedly put together a second ecomomic offer containing wage and fringe benefit increases topping the 6.2 pet. Phase IV guideli­nes. Both the company and the union denied the offer had been formally presented. 
"There is a great deal of work yet to be done." said Ted Ogar, director of public rela­tions for the UAW in announc­ing the news blackout at 6:42 p. 
m. EDT Thursday. Neither union nor company bargainers met with newsmen Thursday. 
The new contract the negotia­tors have been working on since July 18 covers 127,500 U.S. and Canadian auto workers. An auto industry strike at 11:59 p. 
m. Friday would end two years of labor peace. 
The union and company last week set up a "super subcom­mittee" to discuss the wage question and it met through the day Thursday. 
UAW President Leonard Woodcock and his Chrysler counterpart, vice-president Wil­liam O'Brien, headed their respective teams into the final day. They were not expected to emerge from the bargaining suite at Chrysler's world headquarters in Highland Park until shortly before the contract expires Friday night. 



At St. Mary's 

Farenthold to lead equality' workshop 
Special to The Observer 

The first female vice-presidential nominee will highlight a day-long workshop entitled "Equality: Political Style" Saturday at Saint Mary's. 
Frances T. (Sissy) Farenthold is scheduled to speak at 10:00 a.m. in the Little Theatre on "A Woman's Place Is In The House," in one of several sessions in the program sponsored by the 
Indiana and South Bend Political Caucus. 
Born in Corpus Christi, Texas, in 1926, Farenthold received her B.A. from Vassar in 1946, and her J.D. from the University of Texas <Austin) Law School in 1949. She has received honorary Doctor of Laws degrees from Hood College 0973) and Boston College (1973). 
Farenthold was elected to the legislature for two consecutive terms 0968 and 1970), and ran for governor in 1972. In a field of seven canidates, she ran second, accumulating 46 percent of the vote, surpassing the incumbent governor and lieutenant governor. She also placed second among vice presedential nominees at the 1972 Democratic conve.1tion, receiving over 400 votes. She was National co­chairperson of "Citizens to Elect McGovern­Shriver," along with Pierre Salinger and John 
Douglas in 1972. 
The daughter of a prominent South Texas lawyer, Farenthold is not the first politician in her family. Her grandfather, B.D. Tarleton, was a Texas legislator from 1881 to 1886. Her aunt, Miss Lida Dougherty, was the first female school superintendent in Texas. 
Among the public appointive offices she has held on are the Texas Advisory Committee to the 
U.S. Commission on Civil Rights ( 1968-present); Corpus Christi Human Relations Commission (1963-1968); Director of Legal Aid for Nueces County (1965-1967); and the Corpus Christi Citizens committee for the Community Im­provement (1966-1968). She is a member of the Nueces County and Texas Bar Association. 
Presently, she is an assistant professor of law at Texas Southern University in Houston; chairperson of the National Women's Political Caucus; chairperson of the Texas 

Farenthold 

Committl:'e for National Heath Security; member of the National Advisory Council of the American Civil Liberties Union; member, National Advisory Council Tax Action Cam­paign; member, Citizens Committee for Justice for Farah Workers; sponsor, American Branch, Inernational Defense and Aid Fund for South Africa; vice-chairperson, National Coalition for Human Needs and Budget Priorities; and member. National Board of Advisors, Mental Health Law Project. She was listed in the 1972 
Who's Who of American Women. 

Sharing the spotlight with Farenthold in the workshop will be representative from the media and education, as well as politics. Each session will include a panel of women experienced in a particular segment of political activity. The luncheon speaker will be Julia Carson, a member of the Indiana House of Represen­tatives. 
The workshop is open to the public. Admission to Farenthold's speech is $1.00; tickets for the entire day, including lun~h, are $5.00. For tickets and more information, contact Rolande Parent, 233-7549. 
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
McGovern set for N.D. visit 
The Notre Dame Law School Bar Association has announced that Senator George McGovern will deliver the Robert F. Kennedy Lecture Series annual address at Notre Dame on Sunday, November 11 at 8 p.m. in the Stepan Center. 
The SBA Lecture Chairman, Chuck Nau, noted that the Notre Dame Student Union Academic Commission has agreed to co­sponsor the McGovern ap­pearance, in an effort to insure the widest possible student par­tificipation in the McGovern visit. 

liiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii!IIL 

the obse.rver Friday, September 14, 1973 

Who do I see about registering my car? 

Security handles car registration and would be more than willing to square matters away with you. The Security Office is located in the Firehouse and is open for business from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. Monday thru ~riday. If you have any further questions, you can reach Secunty at 283-6130. ­
Where do the ducks go in the winter? 

Accordin~ to the business office of the Biology Department, the ducks don t go anywhere at all. You see, St. Joseph's Lake is warm all year long, due to the use of water for cooling by the Power Plant and the Laundry Service discharge of warm water. In fact, the ducks nest around the discharge pipe. This is what enables them to Jive through the cold of the winter months here at ND. 
When is the Student Union Ticket Office open? 

Union's Ticket Office will be open from 11:30a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday. Joe Russo is the newly appointed ticket manager and can be contacted at 7902. Prsently, tickets are on sale for the Chuck Berry Co~~;cert scheduled for Saturday evening, September 22, at 8:30p.m. m the ACC. 
What plays will the ND-SMC Theatre be presenting this season? 
This season the ND-8MC Theatre will be offering a run of four plays beginning with Richard III on the evening of October 9th through the 13th in O'Laughlin Auditorium. Thieves Carnival and The Homecoming will be staged in Washington Hall December 4th through the 8th and March 26th through the 30th respectively. The final presentationof the ND-8MC Theatre will be The Beggar's Opera in O'Laughlin on April 26th, 27th, and May 2th, 3th, and 4th. 
All shows will start at 8:30p.m. 
What's going on with the shuttle bus service? 

The shuttle bus service is very much in operation. However, there have been some route adjustments for security reasons. Although not drastic in nature, they have caused some difficulty for the shuttle bus riders. Presently, the Ombudsman Service is looking into the matter and hopes to clear things up by putting out a fact sheet early next week which will sort out when and where questions about the shuttles. Until then questions about the service, will be handled by the Ombudsman Staff (7638). Remember it still costs 10 cents after 6 p.m. to ride the shuttle bus. ·The buses leave the ND Library Circle on the quarter to and quarter after of the hour after 6 p.m. 

STARTS TODAY!! 
TuiT-••v million people around the world have seen GODSPELL on the stage, now GODSPELL is a miracle ofa movie musical! 
:1 ' SONGS ~ 
Hear Its 
12 great hit songs • 
Including 
"DAY BY DAY" 
"SAVE THE PEOPLE" 
"BLESS THE LORD" 
and "BEAUTIFUL CITY" I 
Mon. thru Fri. 

' ' • ' OfFICIAL SELECTION TO
2·00-7•15 9·00 (;"'""""'"')
, Sat. and Sun. -"'"'"""'n
2:00. 3:47 -UNJIUFILMFUTIVAL! 
5:30 . 7:30 . 9:15 . 
SMC StU denf Center: Official opening set 
by Jane Cannon 
Ann Smith, SMC Hall Life Commissioner, has announced that the SMC Student Center in Regina Hall will officially open tonight at 6:30. 
Facilities to be found at the Center include a pool table billiards table, ping-pong table a~ exercise room, a stereo room, two saunas (for women only), a card room, and kitchen appliances and utensils. _ A_ task force study last year, md1cated that the billiard and pool tables should be moved from the basement to the South Lounge. This rearrangement will provide easier student access and enable students to use the facilities until curfew. 
In order to pay for the upkeep of the Center's facilities, a 50 cent 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester eKc:ept vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for sa per semester ($14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 
fee, per person, per hour, like last year's, will be charged for the use of the pool table. The kitchen facilities will be made available in exchange for an ID, which will be returned when the utensils are returned. The $10.00 deposit on the kitchen and utensils will no longer be in effect. 
Student Coordinator Nan Blais along with student workers will staff the Center. 
The Center will be open the following hours: Friday, 2 p.m. to 2 a.m. (with the exception of tonight>; Saturday, noon to 2 a.m.; Sunday, 1 p.m. to 11 p.m.; and Monday through Thursday, 2 p.m. to 11 p.m. 


Welcome back ND & SMC students! 
THE ROMA 
your host Frank Anastasio 
*PIZZA 
*LIQUOR 
*ITALIAN FOOD 
Happy hours 4-7 daily 
Dancing to the sophisticated jazz-rock of the Bill Nicks Trio 
FOR DELIVERIES CALL 232-3258 
219 N. Michigan Avenue Downtown South Bend 
We service all makes ~ DELIYERY!


r----------==================---------1­

... r 8'i5AI .......... I~ 
BICYCLE CENTER 
1437 Portage Ave. 
Phone 287-1623 
Ask for student discounts 
10' SPUD RACERS Hours: Daily 9:30-5:30 Mon. till 8:30 ON RAND FOR IIIEDIATE 

t}yt .. 


p~~~ 
~t..--"'1~.-tlf. 
*Student Billing Card 
The time is NOW! There is no standing in line! There is no extra charge! 
With a Student Billing Card, 
residence hall people may make long 
distance telephone calls with the pri­
vacy of their own room phones and 
get an individual bill once a month. 
And you can take advantage of Direct Distance Dialing ... the mod­ern way to call long distance, within Indiana or mit of state. 
We'll mail you a Student Billing 
Card, if you'll call 234-5088. Or you 
can drop in at our Business Office at 
225 S. Main Street. Open 8 a.m. to 
5 p.m. Monday through Friday. 
@Indiana Bel 
-----~--~--~--~----~----------------------------------------..., 
Friday, September 14, 1973 the observer 



\ Orientation termed success' I 
by Tony Proscio Staff Reporter 
Freshman (}, i.-'ntatiun Co-chairman, !J;n Shipp said his comrnitr•;e i.,; "l·t·ry p'··ased'' with both the tu,-nout and t!;e re!"ponse 
for V.'pd,;~--~ ..·da ~~·s f;.u~!~~·:.· '7:). 
Ternu.w. tr.r-;hr·t>•. ;>ad vrien­tatio:-~ ,:a6,afP a "!rc·'lit'ndous SUCCPSS ' <hipj.• !;"ij ti,P seven­man hu<•rd" !"ext slt-f: wHJ be a gent'!':!.t ~"lf-e\Rlhai:on. 
"We fc<: we tn<Jd• a l'!Ulnber of improvct::•'•'ts litis :·car." Shipp comr.wnt· d. " :-md :he response seem~ to ~hew th<•t. \\'r're very pleased with the ('arney and with orientation in g"ncr;:;i." 
"\o\'p ;nt~· ..<i to :;it on,-,,; '>lith Fr. Schlav•'r and dr. 1\ckerman (who advised the COlli n.ittf•e) to critique the whole program aPd make recommtndation~. he said. There are still a few problems that need :n be ironed out." 
Among the difficulties, Shipp noted an awkward distance bet­ween the Carney and eating areas. The lack of volunteers and the position of the stage also posed minor problems. he said. 
Dr. Emil Hofman. dean of the Freshman Year of Studies, stressed his satisfaet! Dn with the committee's efforts. He also noted the success of co-operative efforts of other campus drpartments, particularly the offices of Campus Ministry and Student Affairs. 
"This year's orientation did a much better job of depicting the nature of the universitv to fresh­men." Hofman said . .:It was less stiff and formal than in the past, and showed a wonderful spirit of co-operation among the people responsible." 
"In many ways, the Mass was the highlight of the (orientation) weekend," he said. It was con­celebrated by priests in Campus 

warld 
briefs 
Washington--President Nixon is considering asking Congress for a temporary 10 per cent tax increase on individuals and corporations, to be refunded in a future year when inflation has been brought under control, the White House said Thursday. 
Detroit--The United Auto Workers and Chrysler Thursday night imposed a complete news blackout on their auto contract talks, just 29 hours away from a possible crippling auto strike Friday night. The n­ws blackout is traditionally sign that a breakthrough has been ac­complished in the negotiations and they have reached the stage where bargainers are reluctant to make public statements. 
Washington--Congress Thursday rushed through a ban on television blackouts of sold-out home football games and sent the legislation to the nation's No. 1 football fan, President Nixon, for his signature before the 1973 season begins Sunday. 
Washington-About 2,500 service station dealers from throughout the nation massed on the Capitol steps Thursday to protest Phase IV price ceilings on retail sales of gasoline. 
an campus taday 
5:00 p.m.-mass and dinner, bulla shed 6, 7~ 30, 9, 10:30, 12:00 p.m.-movie, joe kidd, k. of c. 
Sat. 10-4:00 p.m.-workshop, "equality~ political style," moreau hall, smc. 1:00, 2:15pm-rugby, nd vs. lincoln park, stepan field 
1:30 p.m.-softball, shue's mates vs. digger's fro~h. 
varsity baseball field 6, 7:30,9, 10~30, 12:00 p.m.-movie, joe kidd, k of c. 
B: 00 p.m.-concert, pure prairie league, stepan 
Sun. 1~ 30 p.m.-admission d'i!gree, k of c bldg. 
8:00 p.m.-lecture, "who do men say that I am?" rm. 278, galvin life science bldg. 
Start your v.eekend at ... 



Bulla Shed 
( Corner of Bulla and Juniper across from Grace Tower) 

MASS AND DINNER 
Friday 5:00 p.m. 
Ministry and was a good example of the co-operation between the Freshman \'ear olfice and the other departments on campus." 
Hofman also cited the close communication between his office and the Shipp -Caruso committee, a Student Government arm. 
"The committee has done a tremendous job on the program," the dean added. "It is responsible for much of the success." 
at t e 
Knights of Columbus 




Friday, Sept. 14 Saturday, Sept. 15 Showings: 6, 7:30,9,10:30,12 
0
Admission s1 ° Members Free 
'HE Sti!()H 6R!WEiY COMPANY OETI!Qrl MICHIGAN 48116 



Love tap. 
From one beer lover to another. 

THE OBSERVER Summer Mail 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Jerry Lutkus Art Ferranti Dan Barrett
Editor-in-Chief 
Executive Editor Executive Editor 
NEWS: 283-1715 Lee Gentine EDITORIALS: 283-8661 John Kloos Business Manager BUSINESS: 283-7471 Advertising Manager 
Friday, September 14, 1973 

Hall Parties 
Yesterday's story about the prohibition of hall parties is not something new. This policy was decided during the summer of 1971 at the Board of Trustees meeting_ What i~goingbefore the SLC this Monday is nothing but reiteration of that ruling. 
What does make this story noteworthy is the implication derived from it; namely, that the University will now enforce ruling that has for thepast two years been more or less disregarded by a number of halls and students.Howthisenforcement is going to take place is still in the realm of the unknown_ Hopefully, we will not have to find out 
In other words, if Fisher Hall is willing to cancel their party and go through the official lines of the SLC Monday, it would probably be the most wise for everyone to follow their example and wait also. As everyone knows, the SLC is the most powerful student oriented group on campus in that it has a direct line with the administraton. 
In fact, the Fisher plan coupled with the directive of the dean of students i~ not only sound but viable. If parties can be held in basements or in specified non-hall buildings with the "tight control" of liquor distribution, the hall is less likely to suffer damage to any living areas if the party were to get out of control. And those who do not wish to participate in the festivities (whose rights must be respected also) will be less bothered by any noise than if the party was held three doors down. Their numbers are by no means small on any given weekend either. 
Therefore, here is the pitch. The university directive has been policy for sometime now. The only way a "hall party" can be held legally is if the Fisher plan is passed. Make an appearance at the SLC Monday. Follow the rules this weekend. You can still have a good time. The hall party is not the only way. 
Art Ferranti 
The Nickie's -Raid 
One might misconstrue the facts concerning the raid on Nickies last March 29 if attention was paid only to what Nick said in the article in yester­day's paper. Twenty-six Notre Dame and St. Mary'sStudentswere arrested in the raid. Twenty-four of them were officially charged with being "minors in a tavern." 
All of them so charged were found guilty and had to pay a fine of a ap­proximately forty dollars each. Nickies did check everyone's ID, as do many other bars iii this area. 
Those arrested now have a 
misdemeanor on their records. If one had been caught with a phoney ID, it would have been a felony. The two schools did not take any disciplinary action against the students then. But, in light of the directive from the dean of students office, it may be a different story next time. This is printed not with the intention of admonishment, but ra therwith that of in forming you of all the facts, so that you can decide whether the risk is worth it if you are intending to illegally buy a drink in any nearby 
tavern. Art Ferranti 

the observer 
Night Editor: Joe Abell Asst Night Editor: AI Rutherford Layout: Celeste Ponteri, John Salveson, Bill Brink, Maria Gallagher Day Editor: Terry Keeney Picture Screener: Jerome Phillips Typists: Mary Romer, Bob Steinmetz, Dianne Chermside, Steve Roper, Tom Modglin, C. Fourre Night Controller: little zelmo 
daanesbury 
OKAY. MY MAN, I'L-L 
SVR£, MAN, YOU /1.41(£ 
TEU YOf/ tUHY IV£ KEEP 
AN EFFORT, 81/T ITS 
-ro Of/RG#V£Sl 11'5 CAUSE: 
5TON£ 5£LF-SERVIN'I 
WE /JON/ II/ANT 10 BE: NO, 
WE PON'T II/ANT TO 
PART OP SOMEON& ELS/35 
8£ AN £XP£/ei£NCe 
liBERAL "£/JfJCAT!ON"/ 
FOR. N080IJY.' 
"" 
'=Jrer:~ aiella 
The following is a giftfrom a friend that the mailman delivered to me one Saturday morr.mg in July.Reading it made my Corn Flakes taste much better. 
Greg, 
Be prepared for a serious letter and I will discuss with you some newly-found revelations concerning life (mine in particular). I'm not altogether sure that what I say will make sense, or that you even care but here it is nonetheless. ' 
The past two months (including school) I have tried to maintain a frame of mind which I had captured during the course of my last semester, which admittedly, included a rosy picture of my future in particular and the world's in general. My future not as a doctor, but as a person (I don't intend to draw distinctions here), seemed to be most certainly centered around a few select, long-term relationships with friends I had made during my four years, and which were strengthened (or made) in my finalterm. Words play tricks-so don't misunderstand me. I am by no means desperate, perhaps just slightly disrouraged. Life may be more transitional than I had previously ,magined, in which case my view of life will have to be made to conform to present circumstances .. .I feel myself drifting-but in a definite direction. 
It is important, I think, to keep in mind the fact that I will not be returning with you and the guys back to N.D. I am finished, if you'll pardon the colloquial connotation, and I sense that there is something very transient in the entire situation. __ This one moment you think yon have discovered some aspect of life, and have captured it. This is tht: state of mind I mentioned. You feel reassured as it is constantly strengthened through relationships with others and only occasionally weakened by inconsistency. Then the change comes. It is expected, but you are unprepared as it is a new experience fo·-you.. It shatters all previous beliefs and views and forces one to reevaluate. This is where I am now. 
In a sense I think we are all drifting away from circumstances dictating long-term relationships to those in which the irrational, transitional man will predominate. It is not in our place to question. 
R. D. Laing wrote an interesting passage in Politics of Experience: 
" ... Don't puff yourself up too much. Remember your place in the hierarchy, don't try to come it, don't shout about, don't posture, don't give yourself airs, don't think you're going to get away with it, you've had a bit of the piss taken out of you, don't make excuses. Don't kick it around. Who are you trying to kid? A little humility, a fraction of love, a grain of trust, you've been told as much as you need to know, you've had quite your share. don't try the patience of the gods ... " 
It seems that in everything I read, everyone I meet, and all the things I do there rests one commonality: that it is impossible to get to the root of anything, but the world being as it is, it is all we can do to simply get along. Yet I continue to believe (as I expressed to you two years ago) that there is somewhere another person to complete my personality and ease the all-too-frequent moments of lonliness which accompany these prolonged periods of questioning and doubt. Someday I think I shall find her. Perhaps I should follow Rick's example and start accepting applications. 
Weli, to continue: Fr. Burtchaell made an interesting comment at the graduation ceremony, although I am certain that he wasn't aware of its significance. When it came time to sing the alma mater he an­nounced that the words could be found on the inside cover of the baccalaureate booklet-for the benefit of family and friends -and the he smiled. The students laughed at this since they knew that he knew that few knew the words. Mter four years, where do one's loyalties lie? In Notre Dame? In the people you met and the friends you made and the experiences you shared? This is what I shall miss. Notre Dame's buildings are nothing more thanempty shells which echo past friendships and experiences which can never be recovered. 
Remember this, Gre~, in ?'our final year. Try to show nothing but what you can of love, smcenty, and sympathy and give of yourself to give meaning to yourlife.Avoid times of bitterness and shallow en­counters in~ m~aningless mi~ieu. And everyone has their part to play and a contnbutwn to make, 1f you are only willing to open yourself to the rossibilitr Ta~e the initiative and I assure you you won't regret havmg explmted a fmal opportunity to make college meaningful. 
But most of all, Greg, beware of the change. Recognize that what you have established will begin to slip away late in the year no matter how hard you grasp it. Permanence is illusory in a world of radical change. We only need accept it, but I shall miss it very much. 
Some wise old sap once said be concerned with the future because it is where you will spend the rest of your life. It is difficult for an an­tiquarian like myself to strictly adhere to such a philosophy. I will only say that I enjoyed the three years, and thanks. 

taarry trudeau 
r------------------­
{)()(/8l-fi NEGAT!Vfi 
•ANY80()Y." WHA1? 
\ 
Fridav. September 14, 1973 
Letters Ta R Lanely ~ad the sentimentalist 

There is a priest working in a parish in midtown Manhattan, who loved to preach sermons on the Gospel storyof the redemp­tion of the Magdalene. "Much has been forgiven her," he would say to the virtuous ladies at Mass, "Because she has loved much. Mary Magdalene never made a novena. She never lit a candle before the Virgin's statue. She never wore scapulars or said a rosary. But Jesus forgave her sins because she loved much." 
The implication was that the virtuous ladies at Sunday Mass, who exhausted themselves with novena-making and eroded their necks to the collar bone by wearing medals that twisted away sanctified flesh, were real slouches as lovers; therefore, Christ didn't give a damn for them, and wouldn't, until they did something lively, like becoming prostitutes themselves, when their sins could also be forgiven they had loved much. 
As one outraged virtuous lady said to me: "He's a stupid, insensitive man. He's never had to walk Ninth Avenue at night when the whores are soliciting your husband from every doorway. You get to your apartment and find some slut using your front stoop as a bathroom, and another is doing her tricks with a guy in the hallway. Their dirty, evil little men, their pimps, are standing in the shadows, ready to knife you if you call a cop. Then your fourteen year old son tells you a 
breasty bitch tried to pick him up on the way 
home from school" 
on the side of the tramps 
She paused for a second, and I could see 
there were energies and idioms in her that 
novena-making had left untapped. "Then," 
she said, "you go to church on Sunday, and 
find from his sermons, that the priest is on 
the side of the tramps." 
I realized that her rage was directed not only against the Magdalene-preacher, but also against me , whom she also suspected of sentimentalizing street women. I ex­plained that I thought when Jesus indicated his preference for public sinners, He wasn't doing it as a putdown of the average pewholder in the Jerusalem synagogue, as my priest-friend seemed to be doing with the virtuous women of his parish . "It was their religious leaders He couldn't stand," I said, "who. by their blindness, were more than prostitutingGod's holy law and the religious traditions of Israel." 
In my heart, I suspect, the virtuous lady is right: I am a chap who is often on the side of the tramps, and is, therefore, grossly guilty of sentimental exaggeration. But right now, after a summer of watching Watergate in Manhattan, I am also a guy who does not want to imagine a goodness in the life a prostitute that is not really there, not to perceive a blindness among the religious leaders of my own tradition that they are not really guilty of. I must admit, as the story of our involvement in Southeast Asia unfolds more and more, I grow physically sick with bitterness and shame at the American bishops for failing to denounce that war with anathemas veined with hellfire. 
lone picket 
When I think that one bearded hippie parading up and down in front of the White House with placards of rage directed against the President, was closer to the truth about Vietnam than was the Cardinal Archbishop of New York, serving as military vicar over a field full of chaplains, some of whom must have known the truth, if only from reading the columnists in The New York Times. What really shocks me in this late summer of '73 is how right the protestors were when they denounced the war in Cambodia in 1970 .Things were really as bad as the protestors, for all their foul mouths, said they were. 
Yet Cardinal Cooke, returning from the battlefields inl970, could only report to the President that the morale of the troops was high . I respect Cardinal Cooke as a very goo 1 ,.,an and an honorable priest, but wh<.t business did he have serving as the mo~ale officer for the military and ­industrial complex? 
I am a sentimentalist; Cardinal Cooke, 
among other things, is a politician. Let me 
tell you of some people a New York Sen­
timentalist met during the summer. 
Stanley and Anna 
Stanley and Anna came to my door at the rectory one night, asking to be married. Stanley, whom I have known for several years, is thirty-eight years old, and works as a janitor in a New York church. At seventeen, he was a male prostitute in Times Square. He worked at this trade until 
reverend rabert t;~riffin 
he was twenty-one, when, because of a breakdown induced by drugs, he was hospitalized for two years in Bellevue. After his release, he became an alcoholic; and he thieved and prostituted himself to get money for his booze. Three years ago, he gave up drjnking, went to work, and has tried to live the life of a religious man. 
For a long time, until he met Anna, he was very lonely. In other summers, he used to tell me how, on his days off, to keep out of trouble, he would move into a hotel room where he could watch television For a couple of years, all that stood between Stanley and his temptations was a cheap, hotel room television set. Then one day, he met Anna. 
Anna works as r; nurse's aL'e. She ; s forty-five. She has seven children, <1nd she hasn 'I seen the husband who deserted her for eight years. 
Stanley and Anna want to get maried. Stanley asked his pastor, who is a truly compassionate Irish monsignor, if he could marry Anna. The Monsignor said: "Stanley, thereally important thing for you to do is save your immortal soul." Stanley thinks it would be easier to save his immortal soul with Anna than without her. But the Monsignor says Stanley might lose his soul, if he marries Anna, and the Monsignor is a truly compassionate man. 
is it sentimental 
During the summer, I attended the wedding between a former nun and a priest who has been dispensed from his vows. The wedding mass was concelebrated by three priests who had been seminary classmates of the bridegroom. As the marriage bless 
ing was read, I though of Stanley, alone and watching television, and of Anna. They had IJeen forbidden to see one another under pain oflosing their immortal soul because of the vows Anna took on her wedding day. 
Is it sentimental to ask: if a priest can be relieved of his vows, and nun can be relieved of her vows, why can't a nurses' aide also be relieved of vows so that she can marry a janitor named Stanley? The traditional answer, as given by a cardinal who plays politics, is not good enough. The fault is not the cardinal's theology but my own. 
I want to believe in a religion of laws as 
well as a religiom of love, even when it says 
that priests can marry, but that Stanley can't marry Anna. I want to believe in the Cardinal when he says the morale of the troops is high. I want to believe in he Presidentof theUnited States instead of the hippie that pickets him. I want to love prostitutes without believing that their sin is less grievous than that of the bishops who supported the Vietnam war. I want to love the virtuous ladies of midtown Manhattan whether they are virtuous or not. 

I want to love people without sen­timentalizing them. 
In the summer of Watergate , in the aftermath of the Vietnam war, I'm afraid that what I'm left with is credibility gaps instead of faith, sentimentality in place of love. 
Sentimentality sounds pretty silly when it is preached as doctrine from a New York pulpit. 

the. observer;. FridClY; September 14, 1973
6 




Louie's doing O.K. 
by Joseph LaFlare Louie's has added a bar and plenty "We would like to keep the Staff Reporter of room for dancing. There is also student in South Bend rather than a new game room next to the bar. fleeing to Michigan on the 
The opening of the "Library" "The food is still here and as good weekends," Louie said. 
may have taken away some as ever," added Rappelli. "My place and 'the Library' are customers from other establish­A new party room will be operating on a friendly and ments in the area, but "Louie's is opened downstairs in the near cooperative basis." He said that 
apparently ding just fine. future. It will accommodate up to he has been good friends with the 
Louis Rappelli, the proprietor, 50 people and be used primarily for owner of "The Library" for quite denies the rumor thal his place is clubs and family gatherings. some time and this friendship is going to sell out and does not know However, Rappelli was quick to now better than ever. where that rumor started. point out that any student could Louie's is open from 5-2 on week­
Rappelli has remodeled his come and rent the room for a night days and from 5-3 on weekends. He restaurant over the summer. It if he or she intended to have a big invited everyone to drop in some now can seat 150-200 people. party. time. 
SLC to hold first meeting 
leadership role. The SLC took an them in an open forum, requestmg by AI Rutherford active part in such issues as off­certain individuals to voice theStaff Reporter campus housing and minority proble!lls. Acting as an advisory students' problems. council, the SLC sends itsThe Student Life Council will Taking the problems of · the recommendations to Universityhold its first meeting of the year on university affecting student af­President Theodore M. HesburghMonday, September 17, at 4 p.m. in fairs, the council would discuss for approvaL
the Halfway House of Holy Cross HalL The members will discuss the filling of seats left vacant by Summer of '74 departing members. Also the organization of various com­mittees will be discussed. All are 
Job search begins
welcome to attend. The SLC is composed equally of administrators, faculty members, 
by Terry Keeney provided jobs for over 100 stuaems.
and students. Each group is 
Stafl Reporter· The types of jobs varied from
composed of eight members, six of 
factory work in Baltimore to high­
which are elected by their peers, 
While the summer of '73 is ~till in way construction in Denver to
and two of which are members 
the minds of many Notre Dame legal assistance in New York.
simply by their position they hold 
students, senior Jim Clarke and Clarke attributed the success of
at the university. 
Richard Willemin of the the summer job placement service
The administrators, Dean of 
Placement Bureau are already to the cooperation among students, 
Students and the Vice-President of 
preparing for the summer of '74 alumni, and the University
Student Affairs, sit in by virture of 
and the student summer job Placement Bureau. "The main
their position. 
program. purpose of the program is, of
The Chairman of the Faculty 
Initiated on a national scale last course, to provide summer jobs,"
Senate and the Chairman of the 
summer, the summer jobs Clarke explained. "But we also
Faculty Committee on Student 
program places students in want to bring students in contact
Affairs fill two of the seats 
summer jobs near their homes with the Placement Bureau's
representing the faculty. 
through the cooperation of the functions and with the alumni
The students are represented in 
Placement Bureau and alumni clubs."
part by the Student Body President 
clubs throughout the country. The applicant registers with the
and Vice-President. The elected 
"We have the experience to work Placement Bureau which sends the 
members of all three groups 
it better this year," he said. "We information tothelocal alumni club 
(student, faculty, and ad­
will try to place students where in the area where the student
ministration) are selected at 
they want to work and in what kind wishes to work. The alumni club
different times near the end of the 
of jobs they want to do." then tries to place the student in
school year. 
Although he did not know how the type of job desired.
The SLC was originally formed 
many of the 500 applicants from Students may register for this
back in the late sixties to act as a 
last year actually received jobs, placement service beginning on
buffer zone for confrontrations 
Clarke pointed out the successes of Monday, September 24 with the
between administration, faculty 
various alumni clubs in placing Placement Bureau.
members, and students. 
Anyone interested in helping to 

I 
~ 


w ND 
SMC 
THEATRE 
SEASON 1973-74 
students.
Last year, the SLC tried to For example, the Denver Alumni coordinate the summer jobsredefine their purpose in the Notre 
Club placed 24 out of 24 applicants, program should contact Jim Dame community into one of a while the St. Joseph Valley Club Clarke at 234-5523. 
Knights of Columbus Admission degree 
i Sunday at l :30 Sept. 16 for further informatio.n call 7018 

--First Meeting-­
Monday at 7 p.m. Sept 17 t
. .. 
•l 

Observer ads pay off!!! 
307 S . .flich~an SL -211-.7100 

OJOI!EATAI 
NOW SHOWING!! 2nd.. WEEK 
Rappelli welcomes students 
SPECIAL ENGAGEMENT back to his newly-remodeled restaurant. 
jennifer's 
.ltL


fj>atis
SALE 
t'V'.No oN< uNo•• Umted ~ "•OM•mo Art1sts
20% off on FALL KNIT SEPARATES 
Please bring I.D. 
11 9 W. Colfax 
open 6:45
())wnb W"l SaJth Bend 
"Tan o"-7:00-9:1 5 


John Gay's ribald musical romp Apr. 26, 27, May 2, 3, 4 at 8:30p.m. O'Laughlin AtJditorium (St. Mary's) 
!' 
Name ........................................................................................... . Address. ........................................................................................ . City ................................... State...•....................... Zip ................ . Please send ............... subscriptions at (circle price) 
$5.50 Totals ................................................................. . Indicate date choice for each piay: RICHARD .................................. .-CARNIVAL .......................... . HOMECOMING ........................... OPERA .................................. . 
Mlill check for amount due and stamped/addressed envetope for return of tickets to: ND/SMC Theatre, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Seat preference will be givon if order received by 9-20-73. Previous seat location not guaranteed due to new scheduling policy. 
------~--·~-~---~-----------------~---------------~-------------~ 
Fridav. selitember 14, 1973 the obs~rver' 1 7 

Lights upset atmosphere· 
by Andy Swanfeldt Staff Reporter 
For the past two years Ken McCandless, a graduate student in Architecture, has been working on a project of lighting around St. Joseph's lake. 
McCandless feels that the type of lights that have been installed, but not yet used, are upsetting the environment of the lake. "The lakes are the last place of seclusion on campus, used by couples and individuals alike and need not be a tight security place," said McCandless. 
The lake now has seven 175 watt mercury vapor lights installed around the northwest path. 
"These poles were installed on property that does not belong to the University of Notre Dame, ap­parently by people who have a perfect right to put poles on their own property," said a University source. 
McCandless said "The legal and territorial dichotomy between the University and the Holy Cross Fathers need not justify a lack of coordination between these two jurisdictions making separate decisions for a campus which is one of the best designed campuses in the nation." 
McCandless has developed three requirements for the appropriate lighting of the lakes as well as the 
Rick is also attempting to set up
Activities office: a service 
a meal program for off-campus 
by John McEachin Staff Reporter 
"If it can be done, it can be done here," is the confident statement of Fr. Dave Schlaver, referring to the student activities office on the ground floor of LaFortune Student Center. Fr. Schlaver, Director of Campus Student Activities, works directly with students, coor­dinating group functions and ac­ting as an intermediary with the administration. 
"I was a student here myself and I know how frustrating it can be trying to get things done around here," he said. He believes that students can avoid wasted energy and needless frustration by coming directly to him for help in planning activities. 
Often students simply do not know where to get information about something like renting an auditorium to show a movie. His office has the necessary in­
formation for just about any possible project and can facilitate planning events. 
Fr. schlaver can give some clout where needed,and can act as an advocate for students to the 
entire campus: "First, sufficient lighted with those nostalgic lighting for activity in the par­standards. With the building of the ticular place; second, to provide a Library QuaJ another operation cQmpliment for the mood; third, to was undertaken and this was in enhance the quality of the place." 1963. According to McCandless, the only Since then there has been only place that fulfills these haphazard lighting. Many of the requirements is the Grotto. new lights form large pools of 
"There should be a uniform bright light and the same amount d;~nrl,.rrl nf lillht.ing for the entire of large shaded areas. This is bad University," said McCandless. "In for pedestrians' eyes since it is 
newer areas there should be ap­much easier to see at night when­propriate indirect lighting and the there is uniform lighting of lesser same idea for more nostalgic intensity. areas." Much time is needed to study and 
The last time there was find the best way to light the any major lighting project was in campus. McCandless believes this 1931 when the South Quad was time is not available. 
Off-campus students 
Food co-op planned 
purchase food through the diningby Paul Colgan halls. Rick wants to extend this Staff Reporter 
privilege to off-campus students. The plan is subject to approvalA plan for an off-campus food by the off-campus office. Fr.
cooperative is being investigated James Shilts, off-campus housing 
by off-campus student Rick 
director, doubted that the planNauman. He hopes to make it could be implemented because thepossible for students to buy food at dining hall cannot accommodatewholesale prices through the Notre individual orders. They buy inDame Food Service. 
bulk a month before they use it, he Nauman said this would be the 
said.
logical supplier for the coop When asked about an in­
because the dining halls have the dependent food co-op Nauman citedpersonnel and the facilities to the difficulty of obtaiining andhandle the food. Currently, hall staffing an adequate facility off­
governments are allowed to 
campus. "It just wouldn't be able to meet expenses," said Nauman. 
students. The program would
function as one of getting things 
allow students to purchase a 5 or 10 
done. 
meal ticket. Fr. Shilts thought this Fr. Schlaver worked in the same would be a good idea. office last year as Director of No official action on either Volunteer Programs. This year he proposal has been taken at this assumed the job formerly held by time. 
possible manner. 
872

We Specialize in 100 Cenler American Indian JewelrY 700 LincolnWay West Mishawaka, IN 46544 
1A\ PRIMROSE ANTIQUES & GIFT SHOP 
~ Furniture . Glass . Chin~ . Primitives Mrs. Barbara Carbiener Bus. Phone: 255·5496 
Central Staff. He sees his prima~ry::__.::===o=wn=e=r===============ho=m=e=2=34~·6=7=2~8====== 

practical chic 
Th·•t!; ~~;._. u ..... n:.l'lt!U lur<: ol 
tiHl s.,..r,,,!<_)'f fr;r thn n1nd~rn 
WC'1Ho111.1"1or:!,!tl<.'(.rlholli1Cf 
;•c.•·. ~;N•~-.s1.•~r ,...-•npl(: who hku Ihi· t·,l">•'"! uf p!!tlo·,(;-f5 :Jnd !=~•HitS J.H"t!h·r p:'lH('f!'lS lrl thP.lf" hvl!S. Jr.nt·S !\l•'•.rJ 't:>f!o .-.j~f'•S 
.l pant ~.Uit '·"'tl' ttH~ good ,·!I"OJP llll(;o ••f •• ,1.,:,1 ;.,r.tt. 1 hen u~r· tht: sv,,•.,!•. l .,,.r W!th a 
gr<:.Jl sutt ~~· rt :-:<:;your 
newest fQrn. t J'"lr ketm~. 
;'.,jl ,;·, goc-y. ,,,.,,,..::. ~ ...... h,, 
<')olt1 navy. 



the •
bagptper 
scottsdale mall. south bend 
gas light village, e. grand rapids westmain mall, kalamazoo 1200 s. university, ann arbor fashion square mall, saginaw 
321 e. grand river, e. lansing 
W~t <nnlnnial Jfanrnkr ifnusr 
"Enjoy a snack 
--~1 ~$ 

or dinner" 
35 Varieties of Pancakes Chicken -Steak -Sandwiches 
U.S. 31 (Oixieway) North Your Host (Across from Holiday Inn) Bob Edwards '50 
~~r==:=~g¥:~:~:=:~;~=t2:g~:~=~=~=~~=:~:=~=;=~==g~==~=;======~==~=;=g~============r


I presenffiCHUCK I 
I sp~c~~~~J 
\jlj The Coasters l~l~ 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
Dean Robert Ackerman. "The Office has been well-run and I would like to pick right up where Bob Ackerman left off," said Fr. Schlaver. 
Fr. Schlaver would like the Office to remain open to everyone. 
He emphasizes the importance of having well-formulated proposals and points out that many times the students are turned down by the Administration because their plans are not thought out well enough. 
While he may not always be able to get students what they want, he can make available the cumulative experience of past groups and help them present their case in the best 
welcome bock from 
ROCCO'S 
537 N· St. Louis Blvd across from Pandora's SOUTH BEND'S 
pizza, spaghetti Italian sandwiches 
and American food 
CARRY-OUTS 
WANTED 
Roommate needed NO Apts.832 NO AVe. Apt. 2A. Call 233· 1302 
Wanted Experienced portraitartist to do portrait sketches on premises. Phone Book Shack 256·0lll 
Need four northwestern tix desperately. Together if possible. Call 7835 now. 
Need fourth man for NDApts.
232-8671 
Need 4 GA tix to Northwestern game. Phone Art 1026 
Loyal alumnus needs 4 general admission Northwestern tickets; call Maria 1316 
Need one AGA ticket to Nor. thwestern game Sept. 22. Call Joe late at 3418 
Desperately need 2 So. Cal tix. Will pay. Call Joe 3274 
Fast efficient typist· $2.75 hr. to type minimumof 20 hrs. week. Evenings weekends only at my office. Write now pa box 
77, Notre Dame 
Want at least two Nor­thwestern tix call Jim 234-5822 
Needed 4 GA tix to any home game except Air Force. Call 
John 282·1568 
Kitchenware, furniture odds and ends. Call Paddy 234-; ;S~' 
FOR SALE 
Vivatar 98·P close ups case, filter $175 . Call 1939 evenings 
Chevrolet Sedan 1965, 6 cylstick. New paint. new tires. Dependable, economical. $495. Call 233·1615 after 5 pm. 
Cant find textbooks? See Pandoras Books 602 N. St. Louis at South Bend Ave. We have a 3·day special order service on new & used text. books. New and used books bought , sold , and traded. 
Need a car? See John Voll '73 at Gates Chevrolet in South Bend for great buys on new and used cars and trucks. 288·1421 
'67 Chevy 6 cyl. stick . 2 snow tires. 3265. 
Stereo headphones DKoss ESP7 electro static S65 Koss Pro 4AA S40. Firm. 291·3839 Amana refrigerator , Freezer 22"Brand new still incarton . Won on TVSell cheapl~· . Let's haggle. Dennis 259-7533 
Encyclopedia International, 
Won on TV. Dennis 259·7533. 
Year round Lake Front home tor sale, 2 bedrooms, full basement. sprinkling system, 2 car garage, automatic door. all carpeted, boat house. 406 N. Shore Eagle Lake. Call Allen 
Rohleder 616 699-5382 or Autumn Kl ise 234-0232. Price mid forties. 
NOTICES 
Garage Sale 1121 N NO Ave. Sat. 10 to 3-sofas. chests,
Bedstes, chairs, lamps, appliances golf clubs, clothing, etc. 
Will do typing. Themes manuscripts, letters Call 233­6909. 
MMeed someone willing to exchange rooms. Call Matt Me Kool Rm 239 Lyons, 7921 
ARTISTIC STUDENTS: $25 prize for best sketch. Inquire at Nickies 
Info on girls black 3.speedRaleigh bike taken from HolyCross basement this summer. Operation identification no. MN02706GR02687. Reward Phone Judy-4970 
Need money fast? MorrisseyLoan Fund is now open ·borrow up lo !150 Monday thru Friday11:15·12+15. Basement of LaFortune. 
3 lovable kittens, 7 weeks. Fully trained. Free 2118 or 234· 6151 
FOR RENT 
1or 3room apt. 10 min. drive to NO phone 288·9533from 7-9 am and 6·8 pm. 
6 bedroom house, completelyfurnished close to NO. Call 234· 9364. 
4 sruaenrs wanted To snare house just ott S. Michigan St. All utilities paid· reasonable. 291-5869 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost: small gold cross on chain with chip diamond Sentimental value. Lost week ago . Contact 
Pat at 7861 or Kelli at 4556. 

8 the observer . Friday, September 14, 1973 
~----~~~~~~~~--------~~ 
Clements shines in last warm-up
. -. 

by Greg Corgan 
Directed by quarterback Tom Clements, the Irish offense showed glimpses of returnin\g to top form yesterday afternoon as the number one and two units demolished the
! 
second and third teams 5()-() in
t what should be the last full scale s~rimage of the preseason. 
Clements was superb in guiding his squad to 30 of those points, all in the first half. Besides hitting on eight of ten passes for 104 yards, the junior from McKees Rocks, Penn. tallied himself on a 73 yard "scramble" and tossed a scoring pass to tight end Dave Casper. 
"Tom showed a lot of im­provement over last week's scrimmage," offered head coach Ara Parseghian. "He had a good hard week of work His play execution as well as his play conception was a lot better." 
Parseghian also had en­couraging words for the offensive unit as a whole. 
"I saw some improvement over last Saturday. We were throwing well and executing better but we still need more improvement, especially on the second team." 
The reason the number one and two units were pitted against the third and fourth teams was simply because Parseghian was in­terested in seeing how well the first and second teams would perform together as a group. 
"Monday's practice was bad," noted Ara, "but we came along on Tuesday and Wednesday and today we had a lot more team play. We had eleven guys operating together as a unit." 
The Irish Eye 
:=========================:::::::::::::::::=:=:=======:::=:=:=:=:=:=::::;:;:;::=:=:::=:=:::::::=:=:=:::::::::=:=:=:=:=:::::::::::::::::::=:=:::::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=::::::::::::::::::::::::Football picks 
To the true afficionado of the sport, the 1973 college football season must seem something like a gourmet menu. Last week's fare, which included Nebraska­UCLA and a smattering of othr contests across tte land, was a mere appetizer. 
Next week, September 22, will begin thz entree servings. Notre Dame-Northwester, Southern Cal­Georgia Tech, Stanford -Michigan, and a host of other games,importantand otherwise, will be played a week from tmorrow. 
And that entree serving, which could constitute a meal in itself, will continue until November 17 in most cases, and wll extend thrugh December 1 for a few. But in between the two offerings _ an "appetizer" 
weekend whirh saw few teams in action, and an story should be a~ old one for Nrthwestern: Michigan "entree" weekend, which will see everyone in action -Stat~' ?n.to~. Fm~ran: MSU; Co~gan: MSU. . must come this weekend, something of a soup, which ~ISSISSippi at Missoun: The Tigers caught fire at will present a tasteful selection of traditional, mid-season last yar, an? upset Nore Dame and regional, and possibly excitpng gridiron battles. Colorado. Th~y sould be Just as hotto~orrow, w~en 
they open their new season at home m Columbia. 
And what bettH time for The Irish Eye to resume Fineran: Missouri; Corgan: Mississippi. its weekly practice of pigskin prog?ostications? E~ch Oklahoma at Baylor: Never mind that off-season, week, The Observer sports staff will select a varymg two-yearsuspeneion. The Sooners (though minus slate of 15 games, including one "upset of the week" Kerry Jackson) are still the Sooners an will attempt to preview the outcome of thos;~ and they'll do much better than '"OK" against contests. Baylor. Fineran: Oklahoma; Corgan: Oklahoma. 
Last year, The Irish Eye correctly predicted the results of 130 out of 175 college football game~. This Purdue at Wisconsin: At last, Alex Agase has what year's column has yet o make an incorrect choice, but he's long been looking for., a solid football program. it has yet to make a corect one, either. That situation Solid enough, at least, to handle the Badgers. will have canged by Monday, but hopefully it wll have Fineran: Purdue; Corgan: Purdue. changed" for the better. Richmond at Davidson: The Spiders have a tough, 
ground-oriented offense, an a proven, capable
California at Alabama: The Golden Bears will rlefense. Davidson has little of either. Fineran: tangle with a namesake down in Birmingham, but Richmond; Corgan: Richmond. they'd better not be expecting any neighborly v· . . T h k I C ff ' 
treatment. The Bear has a bowl memory of his own Irgmia ec at Kentuc y: Char ie o ey s to erase. Fineran: Alabama; Corgan: Alabame. Gobblers lost to unheralded William and Mary last 
week, but four untimely fumbles and a controversial 
Arkansas at Southern Cal: Last year, the game was pass interference call hurt them. Tech shouldn't make played in Little Rock, theRazorbacks had Joe Fergu-those mistakes agaist the struggling Wildcats. on at quarterback, and they still lost., 31-10. This Fineran: Kentucky; Corgan: Kentucky. year,'Ferguson's gone, and the game is being played Virginia at North Carolina State:The Peach Bowl inL.A.Fineran;USC; Corgan: USC. champshave thosetalented youngsters, the Buckey 
Colorado at LSU: Even without Bert Jones, the· boys, but they may not even need them against Tigers in Baton Rouge should be too tough for the Virginia. Ex-Irish player . (now U. Va. away-from-home Buffs. Fineran: LSU; Corgan: coach) Don Lawrence could be m for a long season LSU. indeed. Fineran: NC State; Corgan: NC State. 
Duke at Tennessee: Condredge Holloway would be Upset of the week: Stanford over Penn State: enough to give the Vols a winning edge, but Ten-Quarterback Mike Boryla, running back John nessee has Haskell Stanback as well, and that should Winesberry, and placekicker Rod Garcia. They make things just that much sweeter. Fineran: should give the Cardinals just enough punch to get by Tennessee; Corgan: Tennessee. Joe Paterno's Nittany Lio!lls. Fineran: Penn State; 
Rice at Houston:~ The Cougars have too much of-Corgan: Penn State. 
But while the offense was responsible for most of the scoring yesterday, it was the defense that put the first points on the board. In the opening minutes of the first quarter, Bob Zanot picked off a F1 ed Trosko pass and returned it 35 yards for a touchdown to give the number ones an early 7-0 lead. 
Eric Penick made it 13-0 minutes later when, after Tim Rudnick had returned Tony Brantley's punt to the third team 24, he skirted left end for eleven yards and the score. There was a bad snap on the try for the point after and Bob Thomas' kick was wide to the right. 
After a 27 yard field goal by Thomas made it 16-0, Clements, on second and ten from his own 27, dropped back to pass and found himself in trouble. He took a small step to his right, spun left and scampered down the sideline 73 yards for the score. With Clemets still at the helm, the first unit scored twice more on drives of 45 and 22 yards to close out the first half leading 37-0. 
Cliff Brown culminated a 40 yard drive in the second half plunging in from the two and junior Frank 
Allocco also scored from the two to complete the Irish scoring for the afternoon. 
Although Parseghian did find one area for mild concern, the defensive unit once again' played' up to expectations 
"The defense played well although I feel they could have been more aggressive. We were running plays and formations the variety ofwhichNorthwestern uses to see how well they would respond. It was a good scrimmage because it allowed me to see certain things that would come up in a game." 
fense for the visiting Owls. Just like Uncle Ben's, this one'll be over in thirty seconds. Fineran: Houton; Corgan: Houston. 
Illinois at Indiana: Bob Blackman's early-season schedules have been murder te past few years. This season, the Illini have an opener they can handle. FinE!ran: Illinois; Corgan: Indiana. 
West Virginia at Maryland: The Mountaineers, perenially, are early contenders for the Lambert ­Trophy. . . They should take another step in that 
Saturday, when they visit the Terrapins.
Fineran: West Virginia; Corgan: West Virginia . 
. . _Michigan State at Nor~hw~stern: Two new coaches will meet on Dyche Stadmm s new astro-turf, _bu~ the 
Tom Clements, here running the Irish offense against USC, was impressive in yesterday's 
scrimmage_ 
"But our biggest problem so far is the offensive line because we're green. Dave Casper is the only senior who has experience. Dan Morrin and Tom Bolger (who are battling it out for the left guard position) have seen a minimal amount of playing time, and with the exception of DiNardo, the rest of the offensive line has virtually no playing time." 
Parseghian went on to say that this year's squad is a youthful one. 
"We're a young team. No backs that'll start are seniors, the defensive line consists of a fresh­man, two sophomores and a junior. 
With the exception of Paterna, who's a senior, our starting linebackers are all junior and we have a freshman, hunior, and two seniors in the defensive backfield. That's a total of three seniors on 
SPECIAL: HOURS: 
INSIDE MALL SOUTHWEST CORNER 
& IRELAND ROADS, 
SOUTH BEND 
Telephone 
259-9090 
DOWNTOWN 
MATINEE 
DAILY Telephone 233-1676 
School house Too 
In the Brewery 100 Center Complex Mishawaka, Ind. Phone -259-8181 
The midwest's most complete 
needlepoint shop 
10 percent discount upon presentation of student I D MONDAY-SATURDAY, 10am-9pm SUN-DAY, 12pm-6pm 
r-c.-cc:c.c:c.c..-....c.c.c.~~
I
I 
...[.<IIIID~---~~~<IIii~IE!-tiiE!II 
version "Play Misty 
for Me" 
5:45, 9:45 
THE MURDER OF THE WORLD AND THE BIGGEST 
BLACK RIP-OFF OF THE DECADE 
IN COLOR 
abc GREAT STATES THEATRES Always ARST with the Chlice of NEW FILMS 
SUPER SHOW Holds Over at ABC'S NEW SHOWPLACE 

A NORMAN JEWISON f1lm 
UJESOS CHRIS SUPERSTAR" 
A Universal Picture Technicolor 
For Group Sales, Starts Daily 1:45, 3:45, jG I Phone 291·4583 5:45, 7:45 & 9:45p.m. 
defense, so," Parseghian em­phasized, "we're a young team." 
However, if the offense con­tinues to improve and teh defense plays as consistently well as it has then Parseghian's "young team" will have opposing coaches growing old. 






