~·--~-------------------------------------------------­

On The Inside 
NO women asked to move ... page 2 H PC discusses off-campus moves ... page 6 

Vol. VII No. 85 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 

Zahm Hall holds unofficial lottery_ to deterznineOC .moves 
by Tom Drape 
Staff Reporter 
Zahm Hall held an unofficial lottery last Sunday that determined the order in which sophomores and juniors will be forced off-campus this year. ­
While the order has been determined, the cut-off point in each list will not be established until Univer­sity quotas are set. 
The action was taken prior to any University ruling regarding the number of students who will be forced to move off-campus next year, and makes Zahm the first hall to hold such a lottery. 
Hall leaders acted at their own initiative with "certain unofficial assumptions" made by their rector, Fr. Thomas Tallarida. The purpose, according to Tallarida. was to provide the residents with a head­
start in relocation. 
"If the University comes out with separate hall quotas, which was our assumption: then this will_save me from a deluge and give the residents added bme. Time is running out," said Tallarida. 
The Lottery 
The idea of the lottery was suggested last Thursday by Tallarida at the rrquest of concerned stude_nts, to hall president Rick Pyfer. Pyfer referred the Idea to the Room Pick Committee which met and decided upon separate lottery methods for the juniors and the soohomores. 
According to lottery coordinators PbY McKiernan 
and Mike Champeau, the lottery is completely 
unofficial with the hope of giving Zahm residents a 
heads tart. 
Terming the forced move off-campus in general as a 
''bad situation," McKiernan referred to Zahm 's 
lottery as having "pretty extensive limits." 
The lottery involves two separate methods for 
juniors and sophomores Pyfer explained that, :·we are 
acting on the SLC suggestion and assumptiOn that 
freshmen will not be forced off." 
The junior plan called for an individual to pre­
declare if he wants to be considered in a group room 
pick and if so how large the group. All residents are 
then assigned numbers with pre-declared groups 
averaging their numbers and being placed ac­
cordingly. The higher numbers will be vulnerable to 
University quotas. 
Sophomore Mike Champeau explained his classmates plan as being "completely opposite." 
''Our plan assigned everyone a number. The cut-off 
method is reversed however, with low numbers having 
to move off. They can choose others to move with 
them. We started at the unsafe end," siad Champeau. 
In both methods of the lottery those that were moving definitely off-campus were still assigned a number and then omitted. 
"Peculiar Position" 
Tallarid described Zahm as being in a "peculiar position'' due to it's large number of fre~hmen residents. The freshmen total 94 out of 247 residents. 
"Acting on unofficial assumptions, one being that the freshmen will not be forced off-campus, this puts the pressure on our upperclassmen, said Tallarida. 
The assumption that the eventual lottery will be held on a hall basis rather than campus-wide base is one which the SLC has been working in favor of, explained the Zahm rector. 
Fr. Tallarida is currently a member of the Housing Committee. 
"University can Profit" 
The Zahm rector joined with McKiernan andCham­peau in pointing to the reaction the University has yet to experience. 
Stating that his concern is "'more for the students to be given a chance," Tallari~a we~t on t~ say that the University should conduct mterv1ews With the Zahm residents that have begun looking for off-campus housing. 
"Since we have had an unofficial lottery, it could serve as an indicator of what to expect," said Tallarida. 
Off-campus housing lists av~il~ble have . been discovered to be inadequate and limited by residents already. . 
A further observation was labeled by Tallanda concerning the "greater certitude" which would be afforded:rectorsas to how many beds will be available. 
Reactions 
"The major reaction," said hall president Pyfer, "was and still is confusion." (continued on page 7) 

Wednesday, February 21, 1973 


Deans Waldman and Hogan vigorously oppose amendment. 

Academic Council votes 
to mandate representation 
The Academic Council Monday amended its Steering Committee proposal in order to man­date student representation on the College Councils and the Graduate Council rather than leave it optional. 
The action took place at the Council's eighth meeting on revision of the Faculty Manual. 
During discussion, it was noted that Arts and Letters, Business Administration and the Graduate Council now have full student mem­bership. The College of Science has student observers on its Council, and Engineering has had the practice of inviting students for par­ticular presentations. The number of student representatives, their terms and selection procedures were left up to individual Councils to decide. 
Student Government Academic Com­missioneer Ed Ellis proposed the amendment to mandate student membership, and received support from student and faculty members on the Council. 
Dean Bernard Waldman of the College of Science and Dean Joseph Hogan from Engineering vigorously opposed the measure, noting that both college councils had already rejected student efforts to gain memberships. 
Despite their opposition, the amendment passed by voice vote. 

The Academic Council also defeated a proposal for a University Budget Committee drawn from the Faculty Senate revision version but left the door open for some kind of budget review committee growing out of the current work of the University Priorities Committee. 
A motion to add six faculty members to the University's Board of Trustees was withdrawn when it was pointed out that such a change in University By-Laws could not properly be part of the Faculty Manual. It was agreed, however, that such a recommendation to the Board could be moved and discussed outside of Facultyconsiderations. 
Monday's three-hour session in the Center for Continuing Education ended with discussion on the last Article of the Manual, and the group's next meeting is expected to complete initial approval of Manual changes voted by the Council meeting as a committee of the whole. All actions will have to be approved again formally by the entire Council and then recommended revisions will go to the Board of Trustee for final approval. 
The Budget Committee was proposed by Economics Department chairman Dr. Dennis Dugan after lengthy discussion of current budgetary procedures, Dugan's motion failed, leaving the opportunity for a related committee to result from Priorities Committee work. 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIUIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIUIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIW.UIIIUIIIHI 
Election Committee validates 13 SBP-SBVP nominating petitions 
by J. Patrick Boyle Staff Reporter 
The Election Commi\tee validated last night petiti9ns of thirteen pairs of candidates seeking the offices of Student Body President and Vice-President. 
The committee checked the legitimacy of the signatures on each petition and the fpllowing list of candidates was released. 

The Election Committee will meet again:tonite at 7 pm in the Student Government Offices. The candidates will be required to sign copies of campaign rules "concerning the answering of questions during the election," according to the election committee. 
Joe Moskowitz & Bob Clemency Brian Mastro & Bill Fenton Alice Wojcieszek & Blake Wordai Raymond Carlson & Tom Kastelic James Clark & Chris Singleton Glenn Sorge & Juan Manigault Matt Kubik & Gordon Mason Jose Gonzalez & Tim Burke Mike Hess & Mike Davis Sam Galloway & Dave Batow Don Nollet & Mike Goetz Dan Wesolowski & Jay Angeluzzi James Brennan & PatriCk Tyrrell 

<The list includes the students. who have not yet formally declared their candidacy) 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIUIIIIIIIIIIBIImmlll••••••uul-·------d··IIII--··-.···IIIIUIIIt 
Four more SBP candidates annoWlce platforms ••• see page 3 
the observer Wednesday, Febru~~ 21, 1973 
warld 

briefs 
(C) 1973 New York Times 

Vientiange--The Laotian government and the communist-led Pathet Lao reached an agreement to end the war in Laos. Spokesmen for both sides said the agreement had been initialed in the presence of the Prime Minister, Prince Souvanna Phouma, during a 50-minute meeting by the Chief Vientiane negotiator, Phang Phongsavan, and the Pathet Lao leader. Phoumi Vongvichit. The agreement will for­mally be signed today. 
Washington--Arthur F. Burns, Chairman of the Federal Reserve Board. told Congress that "as far as I am eoncerned. this is the last devaluation of the dollar." He told the Joint Economic Committee that 
"we have had two devaluations now and we must not have another." liE' set as a target the end of the deficit in the balance of international payments in two or three years, though he conceded that this goal was 
"ambitious. possibly too ambitious." 
Los Angeles--An analyst for the Central Intelligence Agency sur­prisingly appeared in the middle of the Pentagon Papers trial, leading the defense to demand that the Chief Prosecutor be removed from the case for misconduct. 
Washington--Secretary of Agriculture Earl L. Butz said that the eost of food had risen between two and three per cent in January, the largest monthly rise in "20 or 25 years." Butz made the disclosure while charging that the public had been misled by "big-city newspapers and the urban press, and appealing for public un­derstanding of the need for reasonable profits for farmers. 
an campu• taday 
12: 15 pm --seminar, "the genetic basis of evolutionary change" by dr. richard c. lewontin, galvin life science audt. 
1pm -4pm --isis gallery open, fieldhouse 
3:30pm --colloquium, "approximates of elastic­plastic bodies by variational methods" by dr. gerald a. wempner, room 303, engineering 
bldg. • 
4:30 pm --recital, smc music dept. student recital. little theatre, madeleva 
6: 30 pm --sailing club meeting, 204 engineering 
bldg. 7 pm --basketball, indiana h.s. sectionals, ace 
7: 30 pm --lecture "music appreciation for docents and children: a unique opportunity for self-enrichment" by ms. emma endreskountz, carroll hall, madeleva (american scene) 
7:30 pm --aapg lecture "practical classification of reefs and banks -bioderms and biostromes" by dr. karl w. klement, room 101, geology bldg. 
8:00 pm --movie, "macbeth" by orson wells, engineering audt. $1.00 
8: oo pm --philosophy series lecture "uses of language" by john searle, lib. audt. 
9:00 pm --charismatic prayer meeting, in­troduction to charismatic renewal at 8:oopm, butler building b_ehind holy cross hall 

at nd-•mc: 

Women asked to move toN. Quad 
by Steve Magdzinski and Jeanne Murphy Staff Reporters 
Hesidt>nts of Badin and Walsh halls were invited to move to l<'arley and Breen-Phillips at nwetings last night with Sister .John Miriam Jones. assistant to the Provost. 
The reason for the move is to prevent the new women's dorms from housing only students new to the University. Present plans call for. at most. 60 women to be displaced from Badin, and 80 women from Walsh. 
Sr. John Miriam indicated that of•the 775 women enrolled at Notre !lame next year. 350 will be fresh­mE'n. Without placing some of those freshmen in Badin and • Walsh. Farley and Breen-Phillips would become freshmen dorms. 
"We are asking some of y6u to move. to volunteer to help in the new beginnings on the North Quad. e need people to be the nucleus of those halls,'' contended Sr. John Miriam. She feels that with this movement. Christianity comes alive. 
"Either way, whether you choose to move or to stay, the challenge I have offered you remains the same." 
The Assistant to the Provost feels that the mobility of the girls allows them more freedom to be concl'rned about other people and opens up new frontiers and avenues. Immobility breeds sf'lfishness and lack of growth, she claimE'd. 
Asked if the women would be forced to move if not enough volunteered. Sr. John Miriam replied. ··1 just can't believe it is necessary. There is something special and human in this place, and we are in the process of opening it up to other women," 

She said she had no plans and mde no unilateral decisions. But if she had to make a decision, she would confer with the women of the halls. 
"There is room for negotiation," she said. 
Sr. John Miriam also indicated that all those involved in the decision making process had previously agreed it would be desirable to have female students acquainted with Notre Dame in the new halls. 
The women will indicate within the next forty-eight hours whether they intend to move to the North Quad. and which hall they prefer. 
"Your decision is not a life-long contract." stated Sr. John Miriam. 
Questioned about the possibility of the women moving in groups, of ten or twelve. Sr. John Miriam saw no objection as long as an entire floor was not relocating, and thus defeating the purpose of moving. 
Women who move to B-P and Farley will have first choice of rooms over incoming students. The process of choosing rooms will be decided upon by the women who are to move into the halls. Sr. John Miriam specified that the establishment of the student governments in the new halls beformed, "so we don't take two or three months to getthings moving." 
After recommendation by a committee, consisting of students and rectors. the rooms in Farley 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. M;:o.ry's College. Subscriptions mi'ty be purchased for $8 per ·SI'mi'Stl'r ($14 per year) from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
~6556. 

says 

When it comes to pianos. w. will do just about anything. , If we can't ItO it. we willtryto find someone who does. 
Call me now for on 
appointment 674-9335 
Osceola, lndlafta 

Quality Tuning and Repairing 
and BP may be converted to un­crowd the present forced con­ditions. Breen-Phillips has 69 doubles. 8 singles. 24 triples and one quad. Farley has 30 doubles, 16 singles. 18 triples. 17 three-rnan suites and 18 quads. 
One of the women in Walsh asked whether those who m~e to the North Quad will be able to eat at the South Dining Hall. Similarly, a Badin reside.Pt stated that a big influence fif the girls to move would be access to both dining halls. 
Sr. John Miriam replied that Mr. Edmund Price. director of food services. intial reaction was negative. Further investigation is forthcoming. 
Women of the halls will receive a short questionnaire today about the university in general, and will "We can't get growth on later be shown floor plans to demand." she said, "it takes Farley and BP. patience. waiting, and giving." 
Throughout the meetings, Sr. She concluded by saying "it's a John Miriam emphasized the real adventure leaning what is sacrifices that have to be made for secure and moving into the the growth of the university. unknown." 
. Senior Bar 
Now accepting resumes for next year's 
manager. Deliver at bar Wed., Thurs., 
or Fri. after 7:00pm. Deadline: March 2. Info. 283-7521 
GOT AN EYE FOR SAVINGS? LOOK HERE. NOW! 
a Get in on our ....~......1.,,~,;1' 



MID-WINTER SAVINGS EVENT 
It's getting better all the time...we've added new items to the stock of famous name, university-styled apparel; included are shirts, sweaters, doubleknit suits, sportcoats, slacks, dress and flannel shirts, coats and much more. Stop in and see it all first hand. 


KNIT SHIRTS 
at savings of 



(1J21 
A great selection of styles ... tur­
tlenecks, ring necks, button and 
zipper fronts and more. Perfect for 
ON THE CAMPUS ... NO '' '1AME 
PAY NEXT SLWlMER 
Pay one third in June, one third in July and one third in August. No service or carrying charge added. Open your account soon. 


Kubick, Mason platfor1n to protect student rights 
by David Kaminski Staff Reporter 

Matthew Kubik, a fourth year Ar­chitecture student, and Gordon J. Mason, Jr.. a Junior English major, announced their candidacy for Student Body Presidency and Vice Presidency Tuesday night before a crowd of about 25 supporters in the Archite~ture Building. 
Quoting Norman Mailer, "Notre Dame.. .is now entering the present, the whole ferment of the sixties is taking place there now." Kubik and Mason called for Mason and Kubik: Notre Dame is a the students "to take advantage of this great place to be from. Let's make it a 

•ferment' so that Notre Dame may great place to be at." (Staff photo by 
blossom into the community of which it is Joe Raymond). now a seed." 
for the most qualified person as Student llnion Director.
Kubik outlined their platform by first Kubik pledged the money andcalling for more strict protection of cooperation of Student Government tostudent rights. especially the rights of the facilitate any hall in forming low pressure"expatriated" students forced off-!.'amp!Js. 
student gathering places. He said that Holy Cross Hall would be an ideal spot
He proposed a "Procedural Protection for such a gathering place, a of
sort 
Clause" to be included in the Notre Dame "Halfway House" for students of both Student Manual, and called for the Notre Dame and St. Mary's to meet. 
establishment of a "Public Defender of the He called for a Minorities Cultural Student Body" with the cooperation of the House that would be "inclusive rather than 
Law School. 
~xclusive in ~scope, thereby fostering a greater sense of community at Notre "We will not quietly' acquiesce to Dame.'' flagrant violation of student rights," 
Kubik said. "Although we are a Catholic University, we are not immune· to the physical 
Commenting on a crisis in co-education, problems of existence. We advocate easy Kubik called for the students to "create access to sex information, especially the atmosphere for the coming together."· concerning venereal disease to any 
He sees the Student Union as playing the · member of the student body concerned. key role in that "coming together." As a "Notre Dame is a great place to be from. result. he called for a campus-wide search Let us make it a great place to be at." 


Gallovvay and Baton SBP platform open to 1deas 

Batow felt that funds for minority scholarships are possibly misdirected. He said that some of these funds should be used specifically to recruit black women to improve the present black male-female ratio. 
The third point involves the institution of "detect systems," like that presently operating in Alumni Hall, in all halls which show a desire or need for one. 
Such a stop gap measure would only be operable after 10 p.m. to minimize the inconvenience it may cause before that hour when hall traffic is heavier. 
While this measure would not stop all crime or bar all undesirables from the
Galloway and Batow: "If any student 
halls. admits Galloway, it would help and 
has an idea, he should write it out." 
might also relieve some security personnel 
(Staff photo by Joe Raymond). 
for outside duty. 
by Greg Rowinski The fourth plank of the Galloway-Batow Staff Reporter platform is the revitalization of LaFortune Student Center. Their plan is flexible to 
Sam Galloway and Dave Batow take into account any renovation planned launched their campaign for Student Body by the university. The proximity of four President and Vice President last night, female dorms next year will make the pledging a four-point platform, including Center more congenial to social hall lotteries to give earlier notice to gatherings. displaced students. · Balow also suggested another use for 
some of the space in the Center, which"We haven't spoken as generally as may "draw some flak." The candidatessome of the other candidates," said Batow. 
feel that if the University approves the"If any student has an idea, he should establishment of a Black House, it should write it out and give his reasons why it is be located in the Center. not off-campus.
an integral part of student government. If Galloway felt that the decision to fundwe feel it is consistent with our platform, such an enterprise should be put to awe will be more than willing to see it student referendum.
through." 
Galloway said that they hope to doOne of the four points is "to set up some something for the average student. "Thekind of lottery to find who has to move off­average student doesn't give a damn about campus early enough to find housing," better communication with studentsaid Galloway. 
government," said Galloway. Rather, heThe second point is that 4 to 5 percent of is interested in seeing thins being done to •the funds from the bowl games presently make the university better. The twoearmarked for minority scholarships be candidates are interested in tangibles now,used to provide athletic equipment for not long range plans.

intrahall athletics. 

Wednesday, February 21, 1973 the observer 
3 


Carlson and Kastelic hope to improve social situation 
by Steve Magdzinski more free movies, and more extensive use Staff Reporter of LaFortune. 
Kastelic pointed out that LaFortune is Citing the need for more self-reliance on empty most of the time. "We don't want to the part of students, juniors Ray Carlson make promises, though," remarked 
and Tom Kastelic announced their can­Kastelic. "We can only try. We're open 
d~dacies !or student body presig~t and to many ideas." 
vice-president yesterday in the LaFortune Carlson and Kastelic also proposed theballroom. 

addition of what they termed a "January"To live at Notre Dame is to live in a winter term" to the University calendar. 
womb," said Kastelic. an off campus This would be one month of independentgovernment .major. before the an­study which would encourage and enable nouncement. He said the campus pampers students to discover the value of self­students, and they forget basic knowledge education. 

of how to live. He noted the use of maids on the campus as ·an example. The candidates outlined the proposed The purpose of the University, stated study term as a project submitted to and Carlson, an off-campus general program approved by a faculty advisor. Any area 
major, is to find one's own self through of study could be pursued, such as one­
other people, what he termed the process of month internships, social service, hospital 
self-discovery. work or work in a law office. Kastelic 
Carlson proposed a series of small and noted that many pre-med students have informal events so that students might talk never seen an operating room and many more easily and more informally with potential lawyers have never seen a law each other. Among these events he listed office or a trial. The proposed plan would 
small concerts. a coffeehouse, smal~ plays, be required three out of the four years a 
student is in the university. 
A third point on the platform is a proposed leave-of-absence program for students in good academic standing. If a student wishes to leave the University for a short period of time for a good reason, he should be able to know before he leaves whether he will be re-admitted., the can­didate said. · 
Both Carlson and Kastelic left the University for a year to work and study in Europe and were left uncertain about their re-admittance until several days before the admissions deadline. 
This type of program is proposed, said Kastelic, "because so many seniors don't know what they'll find in May." 


Sorge, Manigault propose legal incorporation of SG 
by Mary Egan dS others have done in elaborate Staff Reporter platforms, we're more concerned with providing answers," he added. 
Proposing to make Student Government "Student Government fails because they a legal corporation, Glenn Sorge, a junior come in April and May, not organized. In American Studies major, and Juan the fall, it is too late to generate any type of Manigault, a junior English and Education enthusiasm," said Manigault. major, announced their candidacies for "We want to become a working part of the posts of SBP and SBVP, respectively, the community," added Sorge. "We are in LaFortune last night. not running against anyone, we are run­
ning with the student bodv." he said. If Student Government is a legal cor­
"We don't want to be-a part of theporation, it will have actual legal power, political games. We have declared our­meaning it will have the abilities to pool selves anti-poobah," said Sorge.
financial resources and bring up com­"Therefore, we will not appear before the plaints in a legal suit, said Sorge. 
editorial board of The Observer and seek its endorsement," he added. 
"This will mean a real say so in the students' life at this university," stated Manigault.Students would have a better position to oppose various forms of discrimination at ND, appropriate their own funds, and regulate their affairs, he added. 
As a legal corporation, Student Government may obtain funds from sources outside the university. 
"In the past, HUD <Housing and Urban Development) has given money to student corporations to build off-campus housing for their students," said Sorge. 


Student Government can become a legal 
Manigault and Sorge: "If Student
corporation by applying for a charter with 
Government is a legal corporation, it

the state and amending its constitution. 
will have actual legal power."

According to a South Bend attorney, the 
IIIR-.uiiiiiiiiiiUIIIIUIIIIIIIHIDIIDDimiDIIRIII
incorporation can be enacted in 30 days. Incorporation has worked at other colleges and universities such as Harvard, Boston STORY PLACEMENT College, UUCLA, and the University of ON THIS PAGE WAS Michigan. said Sorge. 
DETERMINED BY "Students at ND generally complain and LOTTERY. live in the past or future," said Manigault. "More than just presenting the problems, IUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIRIIIIIHIIIIIIII­

Carlson and Kastelic: propose small concerts, coffeehouse, small plays. 

Important news meeting for all Observer reporters subject: coverage for the election extravaganza 7:00 TONIGHT LAFORTUNE 2-D 

~--~-·=,I 
Dpinian



THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
John Abowd Dan Thornton 
Children of Crises

Editor-in-Chief Business Manager
NEWS: 283-1715 EDITORIALS: 283-866: Don Ruane BUSINESS: 283-7471 Joe Butler Executive Editor Advertising Manager 
IJeaffrey hunt 
Wednesday, February 21, 1973 


A Model Case 
A move of no small proportions was accomplished yesterday afternoon at the Academic Council meeting. The Council r amended a Steering Committee proposal I maintaining that student representation 
r 
on the College Councils and the Graduate Council ~ optionaL r 
The amendment makes it mandatory r for all the College Councils to seat 
... 
' students on them. The Colleges of Science and Engineering -the two colleges who have balked at the proposition -must now give students representation. In the past they allowed student observers at the council meetings, but now students are to be full voting members. 
The amendment was proposed by Ed Ellis, the Student Government Academic Commissioner and passed with only three dissenting votes-Dean Bernard Waldman, College of Science; Dean Joseph Hogan, College of Engineering; and Prof. Jeremiah Freeman, Chairman, Department of Chemistry. Their college councils had already voted down student membership, but now that decision is reversed. 
Model Case 

The passage of the amendment is a large step forward for students-a large step towards student input in academic affairs. It is a model case of what properly directed, active student par­ticipation can achieve. 
The decision is the result of a trend in that direction-a trend toward student representation on the College Councils. It was a trend that would not have developed had it not been for students forcing the issue. 
The students on the Academic Council did this forcing. They faced problems throughout the year on the Council that dealt with faculty-administration problems and then faced them ob­jectively and conscientiouly. The actions prodded the Council into the move that they consumated yesterday. 
It's a move of no small proportions-a model case of how student input can work effectively in administration and faculty cases. 
Jerry Lutkus 

IIIIIIIIHI.IIIIIIIII·'---UIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIH-IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIRII.IIIIIII.IIIIIIIIItHIIIHIIII.UIIIIIIIIIIII 
Letters... 
In Debt 
l<:ditor: 

Your January 29 Supplement on !<'acuity Collective Bargaining demonstrated the extent to which a student-run campus newpaper can be a service to all members of the academic community. It was impartial. representative, disinterested. We are in your debt. 
Sincererely, Paul A. Rathburn 
To O'Toole 
Editor: 

In reply to the letter of Rev. Christopher J. O'Toole, CSC (I rovincial of the Southern Province. and not associated with the llniversityl, we would like to pub I ic ly support the general orientation of Fr. Toohey's statements supporting amnesty. \\'p believe the issue is much deeper than that suggested by Mr. Nixon's pragmatic politks. Nor does the real issue revo\'f: about Mr. Nixon's personal views on forgiveness. 
Fr. O'Toole seems to overlook_ the fact that the __ macJ:J~f1'"' available to--conscientious ob­jectors depended on the arbitrary decision of autonomous draft boards. Those engaged in draft counseling realize that many CO's were forced out of the country, or into jails, because of such ar­bitrary decisions. 
In the past, our tradition of amnesty did not depend on the -t9.wering self-righteousness of the m'ajoricy and their leaders, and but their abiiits-·t~dge the value of political actions m.._term.& of the common good rather than personal pique and prejudice. 
Si!)cerely, 
William M. Lewers, CSC Claude Pomerleau, CSC Carl Ebey, CSC Dave Burrell, CSC Don McNeill, CSC James Shilts, CSC David Tyson, CSC Robert Krieg, CSC Maurice Amen, CSC Allan Kraw, CSC 
Tom McNally, CSC 
J. Bernard Clark, CSC 
Chris Chappell, CSC Ray Carey, CSC 
IIIIII'IMIII'IIIMIIIMUIUIIIIIIIIIIHHIIII'IIIIIIIII 
Campus Printout 


Contest 
Camera freaks arise! A$10 prize awaits the best picture selected by our judges to be used in a "Campus Printout" in a future issue of The Observer. 
If you have black and white photos of campus scenes you would like to see published, bring them to The Observer office, third floor LaFortune before 5 pm March 7. Contestants are limited to three photos and all entries must have the name. address and phone number of the applicant. Only photos accompanied by a stamped 
self  addressed  envelop  will  be  
returned.  
Observer  and  Dome  

photographers are ineligible. ......,_1111111111111111111111111111111111•• 

Many of us had thought that the civilized logic of the Supreme Court had delivered us from the Bible-toting simpering of the Christian sexual morality. However, communities including Notre Dame, ~nable to accede that they do not have a monopoly on morality, con­tmue the great debate regarding the timing of the creation of the 
human being--is~ when the load is popped, when the cherry is popped or someplace in between? It is feasible that human life begins upon identifiable appearance of the sexual organs in the fetus--for the word "life"connotes a reproductive capacity. But the point of this exercise is not to belabor an academic point, rather to briefly question the priorities of "life-at-any-price" advocates. 

Historically, Christian philosophy or more correctly PauHne teaching permeating Christian thought , has been opposed to the lessening of suffering and humane progress. Surely a dogma preaching omnipotence for a Creator who allows the vast and con­tinual miseries of living things is counter to a basis for morality that depends upon lessening of human suffering. <Modern day evidence is 
found in the callousness of the Nixonites as encouraged by the presence of Billy Graham in the White House ( Further application of this curious Christian ethic that denies the right to human happiness is found in the arguments of right-to-life enthusiasts. Why is it con­trary to right-to-lifers to provide that every individual either receive the deepest human fulfillment that life can give or be spared the social agony of being an unwanted birth? 
I may be able to further elucidate my point by quoting a black migrant mother who relates a recurring dream to Dr. Robert Coles in his Children of Crises, Vol. II. 
"There was this road, that's how the dream started, and it was all smoothed out and kept clean, and as you looked down on it you'd see yourself. like it was a mirror or something placed on top of the road. I'd be standing there, and all of a sudden I'd see one c~r after another coming and inside the car would be one of my little'ottes, then. there'd be the next child, anc the next one, and each one had a car all to himself, and they'd be going down the road, cili'nost"as though they were going to go racing •one another, r.rnc(.soon they'd explode, the cars would, one and then another. and soon they'd all be gone, and I couldn't find sight of my children and I'd still be standing there, where I was aU the'time. and I'd be shaking, whether from the dream or..whefl F was waking up, I don't know. More than anything else. what hurt me was that the last thing that happened in the dream was that I'd be looking down, and I could see my new child--yes there'd be the one I'd be carrying and I'd be near the time to have the baby, and I'd be big and I'd be seeing myself like a mirror, like I said. But I'd have no other of my children left. They'd be all gone, and there'd be me and my baby, not born yet, and that would be all. No there'd be no cars either. They'd all have gone and exploded, I guess." (pp.SS-89) 
The right-to -life fanatics are so concerned about the quality of the nine month unbilical journe)but don'tgive a damn about the child once his is thrust from that sacred uterine cavern. It is the Richard Nixon­Carl Mcintyre right-to-life attitude that preserves life in the womb but opposes day-care centers, welfare reform, social security reform, dismantles the Office of Economic Opportunity, scraps Headstart programs, school lunch programs, housing assistance for rural and urban poor, withholds funds for migrant education and acquiesces to massive setbacks in public education facilities and programs. 
My favorite right-to-life zealots oppose abortion but are willing to send their sons off to wars. But the right-to-lifers that receive my nomination for the Nobel prize "most merciful to children" are also religious fanatics who send their children to Sunday School to be terrorized and demoralized by wrath, violence and lies in the Bible and to be constantly threatened with weeping and gnashing of teeth if they refuse to believe the horseshit in the gospels. 
At any rate, I expect to see right-to-lifers floating like cherubs around Prince Richard when he grabs for the crown. Then may all the migrant children born on sides of roads sleeping on the floors of trucks and 1953 buses, the mountain children born and raised in plasterboard shacks knowing only auto junkyards for playgrounds, the slum children plagued by starvation, violence, filth, and over­crowded chaos, and children with vision who see birth itself an anathema descend and destroy that vain palace. 
the observer




rJ•rry trudeau 
wow.' f/fii?R-'1 ()f! ' 

HIIR.KI YOV!IE yov'R& OAkY 60'T rav'
IIERE 

;r IS-, st;C()I/[25 t-EFJ:.. ON! GNOOPY HfiRIC SEVIiN!.. F/VE.. · / 6t-O?ftu I / FOil/?... 1'/A/0, I 
HHfn
oNe. 
.SCf/tR! 
MMPH.. 
Managing Editor: Joe Abell News Editor: Anthonv Abowd Editorial Editor: Jerry Lutkus Features Editor: Beth Hall St. Mary's Editor: Maria Gallagher Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson Associate Editors: Ed Ellis, Bob Higgins Special Projects Editor: Dan Barrett 
' ISSUE STAFF: Night Editor: Sue Prendergast Assistant Night Editor: Albert D'Antonio Day Editor: Mary Egan Typists: Dianne Chermside, John Flannigan, Davt: Rust 
Howard Halle, Bullet Pictures: Jerome Phillips Sports Night Editor: J.:~mes W. Donaldson Night Controller: Joe Abel I 
Editorials printed in The Observer reflect the opinion of the writer on behalf of the editorial board.. Columns reflect the opinion of the individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial comment. 


Wednesday, february 21, 1973 the observer 
5 


HOW ARE THINGS AT HOME? 
Long distance still is the next best thing to being there. And you can save money by calling nights or weekends. 



@Indiana Bell 

ACROSS 5.) And so on (abbr.) 7.) Star of "The Delphi Bureau" (last name) 10.) --Ayres-The first movie Dr. Kildare 13.) 73 or 109 for example 14.). "Hawaiian " 15.) "T.H.E. " 16.) Robert Vaugn's new T.V. series 19.) Either--­20.) Actor Hunter 21.) " Smart" 23.) " Little Margie" 24.) Lynda George's role is "Mission: Impossible" 25.) Mike Connors 27.) Initials of driving star of 
"Adam 12" 29.) Initials of city base of "Columbo" 31.) Robert and William 33.) Home town of "McCloud" 37.) "Annie Oaklie's" kid brother 38.) This show concerned a 5 year mission 40.) Notre Dame du --­41.) Type of speed measurement used on no. 38 across ~ 43.) Actor Torn 44.) Head of the "The Un­touchables" 46.) Vaughn's role in 16 across 47.) Latin conjunction 49.) Q.B. for U.S.C. in 1972 50.) McCallum's role in (8) down 52.) The Poseidon weighed 80,000­
54.) Actor Knight 57.) Everybody or a detergent 



saeko ichinohe 

ART FERRANTI'S TRIVIA CROSSWORD PUZZLE (actor's initials) 8.) Solo's organization 9.) He loves Bridget 
11.) Honey or James T. 12.) Dr. Marcus --­17.) Banacek's first name 18.) Archie Bunker 21.) This movie gangster's trademark was flipping a coin (initials) 
22.) Carridine's role in "King-Fu" 25.) G"Gunsmoke" marshall's first name 26.) Initials of Jim Phelps ­Force 28.) Head of "Hawaii Five-0" 30.) Veteran Actor Jimmy--­32.) Glenn Garth Gregory's bureau 34.) Initials of star of T.V's "M.A.S.H." 35.) B"Bourbon Beat" 36.) " and Ski" 38.) Best actor of 1961 (last name) 
39.) Jane Fonda's Oscar winning role 42.) Beaten by N.D. Football team .. 
in 1972 by 35-14 (abbr.) 45.) "77 strip" 48.) The "T" in M.T.M. productions 51.) Julie Christie's role in Dr. Zhivago 53.) To place oneself on a chair 55.) Milburn Stone in "Gunsmoke" 56.) Miss Lupino (Mrs. Howard

58.) Spanish for "yes" last name full) Duff)60.) One of the Maverick brothers 3.) Occupation of Reva Rose or 
61.) T.V.'s Canon ranch near Joan van Ark in "Temperatures 59.) Initials of the lawyers's sage Tucson Rising "(abbr.) (actor) on "The Bold Ones" POWN 4.) 3.14159 1.) Dracula-actor (initials) 5.) Detective Queen 
Answers in tomorrow's Observer2.) Ce Si Bon singer (first initial, 6.) Rowdy Yates in "Rawhide" 

r-----~~~~~~~~~~~~~-------------------------· 
Saeko Ichinohe started dance training in 1952 at Baku Ishii's Dance Studio in Tokyo. In 1955 she joined the Baku Ishii Dance Company. touring and performing in major cities in Japan. She started choreography in 1962, and in 1964-65 she received an honorable mention at the Annual Modern Dance Competition (choreographic category). In 1967 she won a prize in the same competition. She attended workshops in Japan with Pauling Koner. Lavina Hovinger, and Anna Sokolow and has performed two works a vear since 1966. She is a member· of the Tokyo Modern Dance Company, and an instructor of eurthmics at Toho Gakuen Music School. and has her own studio in Tokyo. In 1968 she received the Vestris Prize for Choreography for the Boston Ballet Company f~om, Wasemequia Charitable Trust. ~oston. 
In the summer of 1969, her prize­winning piece "Suspicion" was performed at Jacob's Pillow, and in the fall. the same piece was performed during the regular Roston Ballet Company's season. In 1971 Miss Ichinohe worked as a consultant on a piece for the Hebekah Harkness Ballet Com­pany. Also in 1971, Miss lchinohe won an award at the Cologne In­ternational Choreographic Competition, taught at the London School of Contemporary Dance, and was invited to teach at the Ballet Institute of Oslo. where she was artist-in-residence during the academic year of 1971-72. That sam!.' year she taught at the 
Netherlands Dance Theatre, The 
Hague. Holland. Miss Ichinohe has organized her own company of seven dancers with whom she will perform her original works on her first United States tour. A contemporary modern dancer of great distinc­tion. she has drawn such pieces as "'Hinamatsuri" <Doll's Festival) and Megitsune" <The Fox). However. her appeal is universal, for as a contemporary artist of l.'xtraordinary imagination, she has incorporated her experience in both Asia and the West to create something entirely original marked with her own special talent. Few Asians have as yet been able to synthesize West and West. but Saeko lchinohe has succeeded. In the words of Martha Hill of Julliard: "Saeko Ichinohe is outstanding in her ability as a dancer. in her choreographic and directorial gift and ac­complishment..." And Anthony Tudor described her "great gifts" as being based on discipline, in­telligence and maturity. Miss Ichinohe will appear Tuesday. February 27. at 8 p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium. Saeko lchinoe and Company are presented by the Cultural Arts Commission. 
•I"'IM'IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIMIIIIH 
The article on Marcel Marceau by Maria Gallagher in yesterday's Observer contained an error concerning the sponsorship of Marceau's performance. The performance was sponsored by the Cultural Arts Commission, not by the Social Commission. IIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII1111UUllllllJIIUlll 
the observer Wednesday, February 21, 1973 


HPC discusses forced OC moves 
by Jim Eder Staff Reporter 

HPC Chairman Fred Baranowski told his fellow hall presidents last night that any decisions regarding the problem of forcing students to live off campus next year will depend on the number of people who will leave voluntarily. 
"With the beds now available," Baranowski explained, "about 1000 students will have to live off campus. If enough move volun­iarily there will be no need to force anyone off. If the necessary number do not leave, then some forcing-off procedures will have to be used--hopefully on an individual hall basis." 
Baranowski, a member of the committee studying the off­campus problem, said that its chairman Dr. Philip Faccenda will make a public statement either today or tomorrow. The greatest problem facing the committee, according to Baranowski, is the difficulty of predicting how many students will want to move off campus. · "Usually about BOO. people live off campus each year," he said, "but the actual total is never really determined until the summer because of all the late deciders." 
Baranowski also mentioned that ~ now the committee has preftY~. d~ided that if for­cing-off procedures · are necessary, the present junior class will bear the brunt of the burden. Farley, Breen Phillips. and Old College residents as· well as next year's freshmen will probably be guaranteed rooms on campus if they wanted them." 
In an attempt to demonstrate the "solidarity of the student body" concerning the issue of off-campus housing, the hall presidents have agreed to try to obtain signatures 

TRAVEL BUREAU "ON CAMPUS"~ BADIN HALL 
*Airline Reservations *Complete Domestic and Foreign Services *Representative for all Airlines *No Additional Cost 
"Oriented to Youth Programs" 
FIRST BANK & TRUST TRAVEL 
Phone : 283-7080 
Baranowski: "If enough move voluntarily there will be no need to force anyone off." 
fori a petition drawn up by Rich Vaughan and Roger Paul, two students from Alumni Hall, en­dorsing a letter to administration making the following points: 
( 1 l That it is unjust to make only the junior class bear the burden of being forced off campus. 
(2\ That the following alternatives to forcing people off campus should be carefully examined: 
a l Renting Augusta Hall from 
SMC. 

b \ Limiting the enrollemtn of next 
year's freshmen male class . 

c \ Buying prefab dorms that can 
be put up in six weeks. 

(3\ That the following 
suggestions for making off-campus 
living more attractive should be 
considered: 

a l ·Examine and try to influence 
housing costs. 

b \ Reduce the cost of livung 
through a food co-op. 

c \ Provide a shuttle bus service to 
locations of concentrated student 
housing. 

d \ Create an information center in 
South Bend to aid students in 
everyday dealings. 

The presidents will make a special effort to get juniors to sign the petition, since more than likely they will be most effected_by~ forcing-off procedures. 
The residents of Zahm Hall of this year's sophomores will be recently conducted a lottery to asked to leave. Baranowski cir­determine who would live off ticized this action as being campus next year based on their "premature, because there is a 
assumption that 60 per cent of ch(\nce that no one will be forced to this year's iuniors and 20 per cent move off campus." 
Craig Kapson or lois Tranter

21 andover. 
JORDAN MOTORS 259-1981 

"This six man combo rendered perhaps some of the most innovative moments in Fillmore history." Cash Box 
" ... a six piece group that brings it all together so effectively that he has, in effect, created an idiom of his own." N.Y. Times 
"In its first UCLA appearance, this sextet literally drove the audience to standing ovations. It is truly into unique musical experiences and cannot be categorized as either pop or jazz or classical. The group is superbly affluent in all these areas, with each member performing bri II iantly in­dividually and contributing something of major con­sequence to the whole." Billboard 

" ...utterly charming sound , .. whollv tasteful and in­ventive... a breath of fresh air." High Fidelity 
" ... brilliant group ...super 
THE

...sparkling and delightful, THIS SATURDAY, FEBRUARY ancient or modern." 24 at 8:00 
" ...always exciting...playing was impeccable. A gre9t con-O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM cert." Oklahoma State 
PAUL WINTER 
Tickets: $2.50 in advance " ...strangely beautiful and highly $3.00 at the door imaginative music." 
" ... an enchanting spell ... relaxing Tickets on sale now at the Student and peaceful. .. haunting and Union Ticket Office, SMC eerie...weir<i and cap­Programming Office, Pan­

CONSORT
tivating." Ll'liversity of dora's Books, and at the door 
Houston on Saturday 
----~----------­
---------~--------------. 
Wednesday, February 21, 1973 the observer 
7 

Reviews history of craft 
SADIE HAWKINS DANCE
Kinsey talks on art prints 
Live Band Regina Hall 
by Janet Longfellow StaJf Reporter 

Doug Kinsey, Assistant Professor of Art at Notre Dame, spoke last night in the Fieldhouse on the history of printmaking and· the qualities oi individual artists like Gova and Erger. 
Kinsey. a printmaker himself, hegan with a historical synopsis of printmaking. defining it as a multiple-image process in which an impression can be made many times. 
Kinsey felt it is generally unknown that printmaking dates hack to before the fourteenth 
t•entury when woodcuts were used for printing stamps and books. J<:ngraving was introduced in the 
t!lth and 16th eenturies. followed hv nwtal etching. 
·The purpose of printmaking hegan as a simple reproductive tool. enabling artists to increase their communication over all of I·:urope. and of course for its money-making advantages. 
Since then. Kinsey feels, ··sometimes artists became so ~ood in producing unique qualities, that printmaking became more than mere communication in reproduction. It became quite an art form in itself." 
Kinsey went on to delineate 

Kinsey: "Printmaking is a fantasy 
more than a painting." fSta.ff photo by Joe Raymond). 
t'ommon qualities of prints com­
pared to paintings; pointing out the t'haracteristic intimacy and preciousness due to the small size of most prints as opposed to the imposing quality of large pain­tings. 
However. he pointed out the paradox in the quality of a print , "The most important factor is the 
indirectness of a print. The im­pression if made all at once, which makes all the lines appear on the sm·face. in contrast to those in a painting. So. while being very personal. it is also cold and nwchanical." 
9·1 FRI. FEB. 23

A personal opinion was ex­pressed by Kinsey, which he felt to he extremely controversial: that 
$2 per couple advance printmaking tends to encourage imagery regardless of subject 
$2.25 at the door 

matter. He explained. "A print being 
THE NOTRE DAME-ST. MARY'S THEATRE
\'ery small. the artist wants to get more impact into it, so he involves more angles in imagery. 



AFTER THE RAIN 

Therefore. it portrays a fantasy 
JOHN BOWEN'S absorbing theatrical morality
more than a painting." At this point he showed several prints to 
play surrounding events 200 years hence---after Pmphasize his point. 
the rain. 
The lecture ended up with a few February 16, 17, 22, 23, 24 at 8:30pmpoints helpful when observing 
Washington Hall Notre Dame Campus

prints. Kinsey commented, "It is helpful to look at each print as a 
Students, Faculty, Staff $1.50 kind of fantasy, each part an 
Reservations: 284-4176 (Business Hours) image of a certain secret com­
'283-7054 (Show Nights)

partment of an artist's mind, his life." He then stressed the dif­ficulty in making prints, especially when more than one color is used. 

MECHA

!5insey felt that the prints currently on display in the Isis gallery. produced by un­
Orga1izational Meeting

dergradu1J,tes at the School of Art in lndiafiapolis. were fairly regional in influence. 
WED. FEB. 21,1973 at 7:00p.m.
HP termed it. "The mid-western influence of 'funk-art.'_ coining out of a surrealistic tradition with an 

Mecha Office 

<1dded sassy quality." 

All members are asked to come 
Budget planning is lecture topic 
by Bill Sohn Staff Reporter 

Organization of family records like checkbooks and charge cards \\'as the theme of the lecture by Scott Fetner. president of Associates of South Bend, in Carroll Hall at Saint Mary's last night. 
Fetner suggested four things to help with organizaing records: a checkbook. a gas credit card. a general credit card and a shoebox to keep bills in. 
A checkbook is valuable because its ledger is a good record of how much and for what money was spent. 
A gas credit card is useful as a record of how mcu was spent on ~asoline. Fetner said that some states allow an income tax deduction on gasoline tax. 
Similarly. a general credit card, 
such as a Master Charge card, is 
helpful since it will help keep a 
record of most major purchses. 
Fetner suggested the use of a 
shoebox or a similar size box to 
store bills in. They should be 
Reactions from 

Zahmlottery good 
(continued from page 1) 
Champeau added that nothing is 
definite at this point especially if 
the University deciaes on some 
other method. "Generally, the 
juniors are taking all this better 
than the sophomores," he said. 
Tallarida described the reaction 

"as only indicative of what's going to take place." He went on to say, "We are going to have to face reality. Our unofficial lottery, should things work out, has only given them time to think it over." 
When questioned about the 

probability that the University will 
make a decision before spring 
break. Tallarida said that he hopes 
the University will but he doubts 
that students will remain during 
the break to look for housing. 
"At least this way, we have a 

chance." said McKiernan. 
Reactions from parents have 

also been received at Fr. Riehle, 
Dean of Students office. 
Tallarida termed Riehle's 

reaction to the unofficial lottery as 
"he didn't love it." 
"I can see his <Riehle's) point of 

view, but the students need to be 
given a chance," said Tallarida. 
A letter will be sent to residents 

of Zahm later this week to clarify 
any points of the lottery. 
checked monthly and checked 


CLASSIFIED ADS
against the credit card bills. Fetner then went on to talk on 

budget planning suing a budget­keeping bookelt provided by 
LOST AND FOUND 

Associates of South Bend which 
Lost · Orange Bowl watch outside
was distributed to the audience. 
O'Silay, call George 8251.
He recommended four stages of budget planning for a family. 
Lost: black umbrella with brown handle in South Dining Hall ~West,
He said to estimate income and 
Wednesday. Call 7077. Reward.
expenses. then to budget the money. to keep a records of ex­
Lost: ladies gold watch. Great 
sentimental value. Reward. Call 5434.
penses. and to adjust the budget to the real figures. He then gave an example using arbitrary figures. 
Lost: 1 pair of brown glasses.
The lecture was the third in a 
Call 6833. 
series entitled "All you ever 
Lost: Gold SMC class ring, 73.
wanted to know about finance--and 
Initials B.A. B. Call 4140. 
now can ask" sponsored by St. l\1ary's College in cooperation with 
FOR SALE 

the St. Joseph Bank and Trust 
Need a ride home this Spring? Or
Company. 
how 'bout a far out, exciting, 
n1odern, cool, m indblowing, 
super, Go~See~America, Bronson~ 
like summer on a brand new, unused, 1973 Suzuki SOO motor~ cycle; For Sale, best offer. Go via Hell's Angels and call Bill\ at 7827. 
For Sale: Honda 350 SL. Six months old. Excellent condition. $900. Call 272~5780 after 5. 
3 Way, radio, record player, T.V.
Jim -class of '63 

tape recorder. Good Shape. 
Robert Berger 291-0377 after 6.
Chuck -clAss of '65 

' 4th of July fireworks for sale. Send name & telephone number to 
Box 685 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
272-9800 

AKC Labrador pups. One male & one female. Call Jim Thean 283~
1\ED TAG BEER SPECIAL 
6556, 9-5. 
PERSONALS

· We will meet Any Locally Advertised Price 
Denn Smith -please come home,
*DISCOUNTS AVAILABLE* 
the family. 
To the King, It's been the greatest two and a half years ever. What do you say
THE PITT CLUB 
we double it? 
Love, Your Queen 
Will hold a general meeting and Spring Bus Sign-up Wed­
D. B. is red, At ilia is blue, Gary is
nesday, Feb. 21 in Room C-1 (first floor Amphitheater) La 
yellow and so is Du.
Fortune at 7:30 pm. 
Tile Boys NOTICES 
TYPING~-THESIS, DISSER~

ABBEY IS HAPPY 
TAT IONS, TERM PAPERS. REASONABLE RATES~-PROFESSJ.k>NAL LOOKING
to announce our new budget motel in 
RESULTS. MRS. JORDAN~~284~ 2956 BEFORE 4:30 or 288~ 1277
South Bend. Lovely rooms at low cost. 
after 5:00. 
FOR INFORMATION ABOUT GAY AWARENESS COM­MUNITY, CALL 7789 W~Th~F, 8~10 
$10.00 single $12.50 double 
Friendly happy atmosphere·· 
pm. 

@ 
Before you buy a diamond learn t may save you a great deal. Call James 3118. 
Send your friends and relatives 
ABBEY INNS OF AMERICA 52825 U.S. 31 N 

A BETTER CHOICE IS LIFE
South Bend, Indiana 46637 
FOR THE UNBORN CHILD 
CONTACT BIRTHRIGHT, INC. IN SOUTH BEND, P.O. BOX 824 
(219) 272-9000 
<next to the Boars Head) 
OR CALL 289-1034. 

Hot line crisis phone Have a problem you'd like to discuss anonymously (drugs, bad trip, family relations, suicide, contraception, pregnancy, abortion, etc.)? Call this number 282 2323. 
PRE LAW SOCIETY Informal rap with 15 former domers now at the Michigan, Chicago, Northwestern and Notre Deline law schools. 2~4 pm Sat. Feb. 24th, 2nd floor LaFortune. 
Refreshments. Come. 
NO STUDENTS AND FACULTY! 15 percent off on all shock and brake work at Rollin' Wheels Sunoco (across from· Greenwood's ShOpping Center) for next 30 days. Call 272~9676 or stop in anytime! 
Up to 26 acres of untouched qrassland in Park County, Col. Near skiing and Nat'\ Forest. Asking $350acre. Wm. Myers, 115 Western Ave. N., St. Paul Mn. 
612~224~8301. 
Prison inmate would like pen-pal. Please write David Garcia No. 134~947 P.O. Box 69, London, Ohio 43140. 
TYPING: PAPERS, DISSER~ 
TAT IONS,  THESIS.  IM~  
MEDIATE  DELIVERY.  CALL  
287~1222  AFTER 5.  

WANTED 
Ride wanted to Chicago Friday afternoon, Feb. 23. $hare ex~ penses. call Frank 3110. 
Wanted: Piano player, part time, Fri & Sat. evening. Dinner music. Apply in person. Down Under Restaurant. 900 E. Ireland Road. 
Need ride to N.J. for Spring Break. Will share$$ and driving. Call 6986. 
2 quys need ride desperately to Miami, Fla. on March 7. Call Pete 8810. Will share drivirlg & ex­penses. 
Need ride to Colorado or New Mexico for Spring Break. CAll Steve, 1059. 
Riders wanted to Kent, Ohio Fri. Feb. 23. Ken 8810. 
Need rid€: to Lauderdale, Hollywood or Miami. $$ Ken 3679. 
Desperately need a ride to Cleveland on Feb. 23rd. Call Marybeth 4391. 
Need ride to Davenport, Iowa or West on 1-80 Friday ~ Phil 8408. 
So. Carolina Basketball tickets needed for underpriveleged So. Bend students. If you would like to contribute, call John 288-1001 or Theresa 4437. 
Need ride"to Philadelphia Friday, Feb. 23. Urgent. Please call 233­3893, Larry. 
i 

• 
1 
I 
! ­
j 
j l 
j 
l 
1 1 
~ 
I 
l 
I 
' • • I' .. 

the observer Wednesday, February 21, 1973 
W. Michigan tops Irish wrestlers 
by Lefty Ruschmann The Broncos raced to a 15-0 lead 
Notre Dame's wrestling team in the first three events, san­finished a frustrating and injury­wiching a decision between two filled season on a disappoitng note pins. Dave Fuller, wrestling at 118 last night. falling victim to Mid­for the visitors, dominated his 
America Conference power match with Marc Ronquillo, piling Wt>stern \1ichigan. 32-18, before up a 9-0 lead over two periods ;;no fans at the ACC auxiliary gym. before pinning. him at 3:42 of Tlw loss dropped the Irish season period two. n•cord to ,.JJ in dual competition. Bill Devault (126) then posted a 
while the Broncos improved to 7-3. !1-1 win over Irish co-captain Mike 
Weslt•rn rode to victory on the Martin, going ahead 2-0 in the strength three pins and several opening period on a take down. om·-sided .uatches, but the star of Martin escaped to score his lol).e last night . meet was Notre Dame point of the bout, but Devault lwavywPight Jay Achterhoff, who retaliated with an es~;ape and ~cored an upset victory over 300-takedown for a 5-1 middle-round 
pound RogPr Rapaport of the lead. Holding both momentum and Broncos. Rapaport. who. was able time advantage, Devault padded to l'vade being pinned last year by his lead with a final-period near­
Irish ace Mike Fanning., suc­fall. cumbed to Achterhoff's pin at 3:50 Ray Miler, Western's entry in of the second period. Achterhoff, a last year's NCAA finals at 134 frpshman football player who pounds. took command early in his rPcPntly joined the Irish wrestling bout with Steve Brischetto, scoring team. has won all of his bouts to a pin at 3: 12 of the middle stanza continue Notre Dame's dominance after registering a 2-0 lead on a of the heavyweight event. takedown. 
Jim Donaldson:====================t====================================================================================== 
The Irish Eye 
::===============-;:=============================================================================================================-=-:=::Ice Chips 
Last weekend's split at Michigan State, coupled with Michigan Tech's double loss at North Dakota left Notre Dame and the Huskies deadlocked for fourth place--the last spot to have a home ice advantage in the opening round of the playoffs--with 36 title points. Notre Dame is 15-9 and Tech is 12-10 but. if the playoffs were to start tomorrow, the Huskies would get the home ice advantage. 
Since the two teams split in their eight-point meeting at Houghton, the tie-breaking factor becomes a comparison of average-goals-for and goals-against. The Irish are averaging 5.25 goals per game, giving up 4.5. Tech is scoring at a 5.1 clip, yielding 4.2 gpg. 
Hut, if Notre Dame plays the type of hockey that it's capable of playing­-and that's the best around--then coach "Lefty" Smith and his club won't have to worry about tie-breaking methods. 
Tech has eight points left to play for this year, hosting Michigan and second place Denver in four point series the next two weekends. Notre Dame will be playing for 12 points in its final four games, concluding the regular season with an eight-pointer at Duluth, after this weekend's games with Wisconsin at the ACC. 
The last guy who tried to make predictions on the outcome of WCHA games wound up skating through a hole in the ice on St. Mary's Lake. Nevertheless, it seems reasonable to speculate that Tech is likely to win six more points. Michigan (3-22) has had its troubles beating anyone, much less the Huskies in Houghton, and Tech ought to nab four points there. But Denver. which will be scrapping with Wisconsin for the WCHA
• 
title, doesn't figure to drop its last two games. One victory might be more than the Huskies can get against the Pioneers. 
At any rate, if Tech picks up six points, then the Irish need seven (eight, in actuality, since ties are few in the WCHA) points to finish ahead of the Huskies. A sweep of Wisconsin would mean Notre Dame would only have to split against Duluth. A split, or worse, with the Badgers will make a sweep of the Bulldogs imperative. The Irish could settle for six points--if thPy could top Tech's goal ratios--but that's risky business. 
Sick List: The status of defenseman Les Larson, who suffered a. shoulder strain and bruise against MSU, is still in doubt for the Wisconsin sPries. A sophomore, Larson has been used as Notre Dame's "fifth" defenseman in recent weeks. 
Pat Novitski, hustling freshman penalty killer and defenseman also got hanged up in East Lansing, getting a bruised knee, but he should be ready to go this weekend. · 
Winger Mike Dunphy is in St. Joseph's Hospital, beginning a long recovery for his broken leg. 
Coincidence Dep't: Whiling away the afternoon before Friday's game with MSU. Irish goalie Mark Kronholm recalled that, when he was a sophomore at Minnesota's South St. Paul High School, he had been shocked by the ability of the wings from Edina High School to tip in sermingly harmless shots from the point by their defensemen. 
"I iearned a lot that first time we played Edina," he said. "I'd think that the shot was going wide and then a forward would skate in front and the puck would end up in the net." 
A couple of kids named Steve Curry and Bill Nyrop set up most of those plays then and their techniQue has improved considerably in six years. 
~ietting the puck to the wing is only half the job, though, and Kronholm pomte~ out that it wasn't especially easy to develop the "necessary" touch m ord~r to score on deflections. His roommate, wing Larry Israelson, for mstance, had been practicing the art diligently but still was a long way from satisfied. 
But on Saturday, Israelson satisfied the Notre Dame fans gathered in State's rowdy old Ice Arena when he tipped in a pass with a little less than three minutes left in the game to give the Irish a come-from-behind, 6-5, victory over the Spartans. And who gave him the perfect pass that set up the goal? Steve Curry. 
Now if Kronholm can only tab the game-winning combinations this weekend ..... 
Here a cheer, there a cheer: Israelson, who's as loud as a white shirt, 
shunned the spotlight after his heroics Saturday night. "This was a team win, talk about the team, not me," he said. That's the type of attitude that has enabled Notre Dame to become a 
contender this season, rather than an also-ran, like a year ago. 
"You can have all the talent in the world but, if you don't have spirit, you're not going anywhere," another Irish player remarked Saturday night. "Spirit is the different between this year's team and last year's." 
The Irish are going to need every bit of that talent and spirit, plus some help from the hopefully enthusiastic, definitely sellout, crowd, to sweep Wisconsin this weekend. Those lucky enough to have tickets are in for some top-flight college hockey. 

Notre Dame's Mike Gilloon pinned Western Michigan's Mike Strang in their 158-pound encounter last night at the ACC. Western Michigan won thC' match. though. 32-18. 
Till' Irish scored six points by O'Connor dominated the final Hapaport attempted--withoutvirtue of a forfeit in the 142-pound pPriod. but was niether able to success--to use his bulk to tke down class. Dave Boyer being awarded scorP nor erase Beauvias's ac­his opponent during the scoreless the victory. Notre Dame almost cumulated time average. first round. Achterhoff, enjoyingmade up some more ground in the the up position, maintained control !50-pound event, but riding;time· Rick Gilloon (158) twice came of the contest during the second gave the Broncos' Bill Beauvias from i>ebjnd before pinning period, applying the winning move 
narrow 3-2 decision over Notre Western's Mike Strong at 5:50 of at 3:50 to score a pin.Dame's Pat O'Connor. Beauvias the third round. Strong last led 4-2 went in front 2-0 on an opening late in the second ·¥anza, but period takedown, but lost his lead. Gilloon scored a reversal·tQ make ND Ice Stats in the middle round on a penalty it 4-all at the end of the period. point an an O'Connor escape which Gilloon, opening the final round in 
Gm G A Pb P·M

squared the contest at 2-2. the down position, scored a Bumbacco,w ....... 30 36 34 71 17-34 reversal and then registerd his pin WUUams,w ........ 'II 'II 28 53 23.-41 Nollle,c ............. Z5 18 32 48 12·'11
to win the match. 
ltegan,c ............ SO 18 25 41 23-62 Del.orenzl,w ....... 21 18 II 11 14-31
WCHA 
Tom Kaley of Western Michigan Cuny,d ............. 21 I II 21 '11·57 Conroy,c ........... 30 I 14 20 B-It
then prevailed over 167-pound Bill 
Green,d ............. 30 3 18 U 16-32Kortsch. pinning him at 6:23 aft.er llraelson,w .......... Z5 10 7 f7 HO 
scoring two near-falls in round two Nyrop,d ............ 'II 3 14 17 18-. Stelnbom,d ......... 'II 3 12 15 6-12
Standings 
and running up a 12-1 lead in 
Schaler,w .......... 30 7 7 14 1~311 

Pis. Pb. Pis. points. Brad Van Duren 077) then Dunphy,w .......... 21 2 8 10 1-12 W L T WL Ra. JiFGA clinched the meet for his Bronco D. llowe,w ......... 18 4 5 I 3-I WisconSin ......17 8 1 45 It 8 121 85 Larson,d ........... 30 1 8 1 s-12
teammates with an 11-1 triumph

Denver .........18 6 0 44 II 12 123 15 Novit.zki,w ......... 28 2 0 2 2· 4 Michigan State .13 7 I 37 17 18 loti 91 over John Dowd of the Irish. Van Maison,w ........... 4 I 1 2 ~I Notre Dame ....15 0 0 36 24 12 128 1118 Tanlanl,w ......... 28 8 I I 2· 4
Duren took a 2-0 lead on a first­

Michigan Tech .12 10 0 36 28 8 114 tl:l Keating,w .......... 12 0 I I ~18 Minnesota ...... II 10 3 33 31 8 87 83 period takedown, and widened it to Culllla,c ............ 4 0 I I I· 2 North Dakota ..13 12 I 31 33 8 115 121 6-0 after two periods with a Bonk,d .. .. .. .. .. .. . 7 0 0 0 0 0 Minn.·Duluth ... 11 13 0 2G 34 12 ID7 116 Byers, w .. . . .. .. .. .. 3 0 0 0 0. 0
reversal and two penalty points.

Colorado Col... 3 21 0 10 50 IZ 10 153 Augustine,w ........ 2 0 0 0 0. 0 llicbigan .. .. .. . 3 2'l 0 8 54 10 VI 155 Jim Gualdona (190) likewise took WEEKEND RESULTS the measure of Pat Meade of Notre 
N.D. Totals ..... 30 180 245 405 209-482 Michigan State IG-5, Notre Dame 2-1 Opponent Totals . 30 153 217 370 201-4:!9
Dame, racing to a quick 5-0 le~d

Wisconsin 6-tl, Minn.·Duluth 2-2 ·Power Play Goals -ND 41 of 135 
North Dakota ~8. Michigan Tech 3-6 ( takedown and near faUl-l:n/ the (30.4 per cent); OPP 31 oll48 (20.8 percent)
Minnesota 4-3, Michigan J.2 first period and ~xtending it to 11-1
Denver 8-3, Colorado College 3-1 Shorthanded Goals-ND, 6, OPP 3 
in a third-period scoring flurry. 

WEEKEND SERIES Gultf'tlden Gms GA Av11. Saves Wisconsin at Notre Dame (4 points), Kronholm . . ..... 23.5 107' 4.55 741 7:30p.m. ACC With the Irish down 32-12, Coach Cathcart .. .. .. . 6.5 44' 6. n 208 Michigan State at Denver (8) Mather sent in Achterhoff to take 
lllnn.-Duluth at Minnesota (4) Notre Dame Totals 30 151' 5.03 949 
on Roger Rapaport in the

Michigan at Mlcbigan Tech (4) Opponent Totals ... 30 158' 5.'/1 !169 North Dakota at Coloradu College (4) heavyweight event. The larger 'Does not include open net goals 
Bartzen wins Ohio slalom 
The Notre Dame ski Iteam. led could have used some more practice prevented her from matching the by junior ace Pete Bartzen, time. "I'm sure we could have won gold medal performance of completed its most successful it if we had it," noted the mentor, tPammate Bartzen. Also racing weekend of their season last who also announced plans for the for the women's team were Satuday and Sunday, bringing team's first practice. session this Colletta Miller and Ann Hawkins. homl' the third-place trophy from Friday. Hellmuth noted that this trial with the Ohio Governor's Cup Cham­Women competed with the Irish thl' Irish team "was a complete pionship, held at the Snow Field skiiers for the first time in the Ohio success" and he expressed hope Ski Area in Mansfield, Ohio, in­meet. Although only three women that more Notre Dame women cluding the Akron and Ohio State represented the Irish last would get involved in the squads which finished one-two in weekend. Hellmuth noted that they program. the competition. "turned in a very good showing." The Notre Dame skiiers' season­
This was the third meet of the Kristin Meyer led the way for -their first ever-:. will wind up with season for the Irish skiiers, who Notre Dame with the best time of an NCAA-sanctioned meet March 
have completed with the best in­the day in women's competition, :l-4 at Indianhead in Michigan's tercollegiate skiiers in NCAA­but a fall on her first run of the day Northern Peninsula. sanctioned meets at Boyne 
Mountain. Michigan and at 
Old pros lead JV ice win
LaCrosse, Wisconsin .. 

The brightest spot in the club's by John Fineran Cunha and Bonk had first period successful weekend was the Notre Dame's JV hockey squad markers along with Jim Augustineperformance of Bartzen, who has defeated Southfield, Michigan 14-3 for a 3-0 Irish lead the first period 
peen the most consistent skiier all Saturday at the A.C.C. as Kevin intermission. Byers then scored teason for the Irish. Bartzen was Hoene scored four goals. Kevin for Southfield to cut the lead to 3-1 
again ,in toplformllast'weekendas he 

Hoene? In fact, Notre Dame early in the second. Then Hoene ~opped first place honors in the players accounted for 16 of the 17 went to work. He notched the hat 
field of 68 entries in both runs of the goals. Sixteen of seventeen goals? trick in 5:15 <Bonk added another slalom competition. Pete finished for a Irish
Timeout! during the span) 7-1 a full 2.5 seconds ahead of his Hoene was informed Saturday lead. Hoene and Rick Locke made closest competitior in the first run morning by the Southfield coach the bulge 9-1 going into the third 

and he bettered the opposition by a that the Michigan team would only period.second and a half in the second have eight players <two goalies) The Irish upped it to 12·1 on goals 
run. 

for that afternoon's game. The JV by Rick Martinello, Neal UngarOther impressive performances 
coach tried to get players from and Frank Szymanski early in the 

were turned in by Doug Siddoway, Chicago and Notre Dame's In­third before Southfield's Ed Stan Ripcho, Dave Kolsun, Gary terhall teams, but his efforts were Turner scored; Olive then sand­Gross and Bob Hellmuth. frustrated. wiched a goal between those of Bob 
Especially pleasing was the racing "I finally asked Rich Cunha and Howe and Locke to make it a 14-3 of newcomers Carl Straub and Mike Bonk if they wanted to form a final. Chris Cannon. "Chris had two real line with me," Hoene said. "We The Junior Varsity concludes its fine times," stated team coor­gave them Mark Olive, Tim Byers, season on Friday and Saturday at dinator Hellmuth. Gerry Hayden, Dave Smith and :l:OOp.m. versus the St. Louis Blue 
Although he was pleased with his Jack Rafter. I thought with these Flames. Kevin Hoene will resume teammates' overall third-place guys,the game\Vould be close," he his regular position--behind the finish, Hellmuth felt the team added. ·u wasn't. bench--for the series. 


. ~~)~---~~~--!~~~r~ ­.,/! ;~.. ·_· '.. ', ' •• -.\.,,.,. ''~..­
BEER COLOR 
PABST BREWING COMPANY, MILWAUKEE, WIS., PEORIA HEIGHTS, II 

NEVER BEFORE 
HAS THE PUREST WATER,MALT AND THE FINEST IMPORTED AND DOMESTIC HOPS BEEN PORTRAYED 
SO LAVISHLY!! 
RATED . 
AS AMERICA's BEST VG 
HAPPYJUDGES I I I VE=~~D 
STUFF 









