On The Inside 

Acndemy Awards 
... see page 6 

Richle on housing 
... see page 3 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Wednesday, March 28, 1973
Vol. VII No. 102 
HPC in constitutionaI dilemna 
by David Rust Senior Reporter 
Last night's Hall Presidents Council meeting p~shed the student government constitutional dilemna mto a new phase when former student government presidential c~ndidate Jim Clarke presented his own surpnse proposal. 
('Iarke's sudden act threw the Council into anir_nated discussion and a final stalemate. The hall presidents decided to meet again tomorrow evening to decide on the constitutional proposals. 
Clarke had written his own new constitution, he told the hall presidents, because he was not satisfie~ w_ith the final form of the compromise Student AssociatiOn "outline" he had helped create. This outline was published in Monday's Observer. 
His new proposal follows the same format as the original outline, but makes two basic changes. It would: 
--Give the new Forum general legislative power, whereas the committee outline gves it this power only in the area of budget; 
"Eliminate the offices of student association 
president and vice-president, replacing them .wi_th ,a 
I<'orum chairman, who would be the AssociatiOn s 
policy spokesman, and an Executive coordinator who 
would be responsible for student services. 
Clarke's Forum chairman would be elected by and 
from the Forum, and his executive coordinator, by the 
student body as a whole, with election rules that allow 
only two names and no write-ins to g? into any runoff. 
Initial questions from the hall presidents concerned 
the new "Executive coordinator" and asked the extent 
of his powers. 
"As it is now, the student government president 
performs two functions," responded Clarke. ",He:s 
policy spokesman for the government, a~d he s m 
charge of the people who run st~de~~ services.. 
"My proposal splits th~ duties, ~e contmued, 
"disignating the Forum charrma~ as policy sp?kesman 
and giving the executive coordmator th~ th1~,g that 
means the most to students-student services. 
Because the student body is affected the most by the 
services apparatus, Clarke contended, the coor­
dinator's election becomes the "desir~ble" thi~g. 
"I want to point out that the executive coordmator 

the new student 
Clarke: 
·­
.f.t~;•.1JI;. 
·-·~ 
association," said Clarke after the meeting, "and it will be up to the student body itself to decide which services it wants for itself." 
Student government vice-president Dennis Etienne and retired treasurer Mike Marget, sitting in on the meeting, were disappointed by Clarke's proposal and the general course the meeting took following its. presentation. , 
"The shock of Clarke breaching the faith of the committee which wrote the original outline by springing this constitution on the HPC," said Etienne, another member of that committee, "kept those others of us on the committee from discussing our first cow stitution. It forced us to be on the defensive." 
Drafting committee member Marget agreed. 
"I think <HPC Chairman) Fred Baranowski was trying to be fair in conducting the discussion," he said, "but it was all lopsided in favor of Clarke's proposal. We were forced to tell the HPC what was wrong with Clarke's · there was no way we could discuss with them 
Wh.at WaS right With ours." . 
Etienne's charge that Clarke had breechedthe good faith of the committee was taken up by Director of Student Activities Dr. Robert Ackerman, also present at the meeting, who broke an hour's silence to address the hall presidents. 
"A great deal of good faith went into this com­promise," said Dr. Ackerman, whose office had hosted the committee in its deliberations, "aud I don't think Clarke acted in any kind of good faith with this new constitution." 
He attached more importance, though, to the argument that the new format was contrary to the original "character" of the HPC. 
"This group got together a few years ago (in 1967)," said Dr. Ackerman, "because the hall presidents, indeed a special group of people, had common hall. problems and solutions that they believed could be shared to the benefit of all the halls. Sometimes there was common action, but the important thing was always each president's hall. 
"If you adopt this new constitution," he warned, "you'lllose your innocence, your autonomy. Who will be left to listen to the individuals in the halls who care nothing about politics, districts and coordinators? Maybe there will have to evolve a set of hall assistant vice-presidents to perform that listening function." 
Grace hall president Kevin Griffin , who had backed the Clarke constitution all evening, responded, "Everyone loses their innocence. Everyone loses their virginity.'' 
''No. not everyone loses their virginity," replied Dr. Ackerman. "I don't see why the HPC has to throw away its independence for a whole new and pressing set of responsibilities. The decision to go to taking over the studnt government entails a serious risk." 
"We're willing to take that risk, Doctor," said Griffin. 
Most of the hall presidents who joined the discussion proved to be in general agreement with the emphasis of Clarke's constitution, which was to give the hall presidents a more outstanding voice in a new student association than they believed the committee outline allowed. 
But they also summed up reactions from their constituents in defense against the student body losing contact with the process of election of a student body leader. fearing intitally that Clarke's outline would 

Akerman: "If you adopt this new constitution you will lose your innocence, your autonomy." engender that loss. 
"The students I've been talking to wouldn't like not being able to pick the person who has tht! .power," said Sue Anderson, member of the four-person Walsh Hall executive board. "They're going to resent us picking everybody of importance." 
Marget pressed this point and told the group that if it was a serious and dedicated chief executive they were "worried about getting," they should "work to familiarize the students with the issues and candidates in each election," rather than eliminate such an executive. 
"The students need/someonethey can identify with," said Marget. "The student association president is that person." 
Etienne argued that the committee outline gave the Forum ''all the legislative power it really needs." 
Dillon }l~'' president Mike Cunningham responded that "You only give us control of the budget. The president holds the real power." 
"What more do you need?" asked Etienne. "That's the real power." 
Others argued other tacks, wanting guarantees tht Clarke's executve coordinator be under some kind of control by the Forum. 

HPC's own exeuctive coordinator, Steve Jeselnick, offered an amendment to make the coordinator "responsible to the Student Association Forum and its collective decision." · None of the presidents spoke against it. 
It was Chairman Baranowski who suggested that the presidents take both constitutional proposals to their hall councils and ask for their reactions, scheduling another meeting for tomorrow evening at 6:00 in St. Ed's hall. 
Etienne had told the HPC that all that was necessary for ratification of a new student government con­stitution was acceptance by two-thirds of the hall councils, with the off-campus students acting as one hall. 
Clarke rejected claims after the meeting that he was ambitious. 
"I have no ambition," said Clarke. "As soon as we finish acting on my proposed constitution, regardless of the decision, I will end all involvement with student government." 
April 12 is the day 

SAP election planned 
by Dean Mayors Staff Reporter 
Tentative plans for the election of a Student Association President and Vice-president have been announced by Greg Smith, C.1mpus Judicial Board Coordinator. The elections will be held on April 12 and will be preceded by a fC'ur day campaign periqd beginning April 8. 
A run-off election is scheduled for April 16 if no candidate obtains the necessary "50 precenr plus 1" plurality in initial balloting. Tentative plans also include the releasing of nominating petitions by student gobernment by the end of this week. 
The plans for the election, drawn up by Smith. hinge on ratification · of the new constitution. Said Smith, "We hope that the hall councils will soon approve the con­
stitution  so  that  we  can  get  down  to  the  
business  of  putting  the  new  governm ent  
structure into action."  

According to the new election procedure, the Student Association President and Vice­president are to be elected, as a ticket, in March for a one-year term commencing on April I. Smith noted that such a deadline •. 'annot be met this year because of com­Plications ensuing from the elections already lteld. 
"Such a delay won't be too much of a pt·oblem, however, "he commented. "If everything goes according to plan, the president and vice-president should be in office by the time Easter vacation is over." Candidates for the executive offices are to be nominated by petitions bearing the signatures of at least 300 students. According ' to Smith, such a requirement will hopefully. t·ut down on the number of joke candidates. 
Smith emphasized that the most significant change in the procedure for the upcoming election involves the run-off election. For the run-off election the nominees need not be only 
t t·ontimu•d on pagp 7 l 
Earl-Graves to lecture on minorities in business 
Earl G. Graves, head of a New York publishing firm which prints nlack Enterprise Hlagazine. will discuss "Minorities and Urban Area Careers in Business, Law and Communication Arts" at a public talk at 3:30 p.m. today in Hayes­Healy Center at Notre Dame. 
A former administrative assistant to the late Senator Robert 
F. Kennedy. Graves heads five t•orporations and is a member of the national board and executive 
committee of the Interracial Council for Business Opportunity. 
Graves attended Morgan State College in Baltimore where he was a leader of eight maJOI t<·ampus organizations and was honored by nwmbership on the Dean's List. 
Hi-: r.otre Dame talk is spon­snrprl hy the Urban Studies In­st"itute. Black Studies Program, 
. Law School. College of Business Administration and Department of A111erican Studies. 



warld briefs 
(l'l l!li:l Nl'w York Times 

Saigon--The withdrawal of the remaining American troops in Vietnam resumed after negotiations Monday night opened the the way for the release of the last American war prisoners in Indochina. A total of 936 G.I.'s left Vietnam Tuesday, and l,BOOmore troops are scheduled to leave today <Wednesday) and another 2,500, the last, are scheduled to leave Thursday--one day after the 60-day deadline specified by the Paris cease­fire agreement. 
Washington--E. Howard Hunt Fr., a convicted Watergate conspirator and a former consultant to the White House, testified for more than an hour Tuesday before a Federal Grand Jury in Washington. Meanwhile, a special Senate committee investigating political espionage in lac;t year's presidential campaign announced that Jame~ W. McCord Jr. would testify under oath in secret session today (Wednesday). A number of prominent Republicans called on the White House to provide information on the Watergate affair and on reports of related efforts to disrupt the Democratic campaign. 
Washington--The Federal Communications Commission announced that it would investigate allegedly obscene radio and television programs. The inquiry, for which no starting date has been set, will be dosed to the public, unless the commission "determines that public <;essions would serve the public interest." 
an campus l:aday 
IOam-6pm--peace corps and vista reps, memorial 
library concourse 1-5pm damily, adoration of the blessed sacramanet, corby hall chapel 
3pm--council meeting, college council of arts and 
le · ers, cce, room 202 3:30pm--lecture, "minor! des and urban area careers in business law and communication ar s," by earl g. graves, hayes-healy, room 122­123 
7:30pm--lecture, "julien green: the first american among 1he forty french 'Immortals!', by sr. anna 1eresa, carroll hall, made leva, smc 7:30pm--lecture, the unreality of teacher educa ,ion," by evan bergwell, exec. director of 
s. bend youth center 
7-9 pm-photo sitting, passport photos for next year's s uden s abroad, ace, $5.00 Bpm--lecture, pope leo xlll's french policy: 
dilemma and decision," by dr. lames e. ward, 
lib. aud. 9pm--charismatlc prayer meeting, holy cross hall, open to public 

week, Senior Class President Jim Hunt announced last week. Sophomores-to-be will not elect officers, and there will be no fresh-
Jazz at nine 

On Thursday, March 29th the Notre Dame Jazz Band Combo will present another of their continuing series of informal jazz concerts in 
lounge of the Student Center. 
The Combo will play a varied program that will highlight the solo abilities of the group's members. Featured will be Nick Talarico on trombone, Charles Hohrs on baritone sax, Jeff Noonan on guitar, Bob Guerra on guitar, Mike Nickerson on bass, John Yakacki on piano, Mike Kendall on drums and Juan Rivera on conga. 
The concert's emphasis, even more than in the past, will be on improvisational techniques. In­eluded o n the program will be the first performance of an extended work, "Descent..." by drummer Mike Kendall and a free-form tribute to John Coltrane in the 
r 
f. combo's presentation of "A Love Supreme". An improvisation
I 
based on the Gregorian chant,I "Adore Te Devote" and 
r 
Mahavishnu composition will round out the m. 
available today in the Student 
Government office in LaFortune 
Student Center. They must be 
returned by 5 p.m. Friday. 
Campaigning begins at 8 a.m. 
Monday, campaigning ends at 
Midnight, Wednesday, and voting 
will take place Thursday in the 
halls and the off-campus office. 
A plurality will decide the election in each case. Rules for campaigning are available with petitions in the Student Govern­ment office today. A ticket of four candidates for the offices of President, Vice-President, Secretary, and Treasurer, respectively, must submit four petitions, one for each office. Petitions must include fifty names from the candidate's own class· accompanied by the signer's ID number. 
The Freshman Class and Sophomore Class officers are being eliminated bet!ause it was the consensus of the officers this 
Tl1e Observer is published daily 1 during the college semester except vilcillions by the students of the 
University of Notre Dame and St. Milry's College. Subscriptions 111<1y be purche~sed for $8 per semester ($14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, lndiilna 46556. Second class postnge paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
465~6. 

RE.NT A PINTO\ 
l15A DA~ 

Jordan Motors 
5 4A MILEl 
FOR. ~E:. 1"--FO,CALL: 
"Craig Kapson"· or Lois Tranter 259-1981 
For 11uden11 1nd faculty 21 1nd over 



RENT·A·CAR 

Hunt also noted that this abolition was not in violation of any constitution or bylaws. "It simply breaks a rather meaningless 
tradition," he commented.  
Senior  Class  officers  are  
retained,  he  said,  because  they  
must  attend  to  details  like  

graduation, Senior Week, Honorary Doctorate selections, class trips, and the coordination of events with the Senior Bar. 
Junior· Class ofificers organize Junior Parents Weekend. 
Call Aheod for Kegsl Support your Alumni, 
some day they may
272-9800 

have to support you. 
CONGRATULATIONS
Best Prices 

And Selection Basketball Team I
In Town 

We're proud of you
*Discounts* 




SENIORS 
Uncertain of your future ••• 
,.,
• 
• • • check out the 
Marist Brothers Lay Volunteer Program. 


Talk with recent N. D. grads now in the Program 
Tuesday-VVednesday-Thursday 
7:30pm LaFortune Ballroom 

Special Opportunities in: 
grammer school teaching & high school teaching 


Wednesday, Marcb 28, 1973 
WaJting list lor lottery losers 
Riehle speaks on hall situation· 
by David Rust 
Senior Reporter 

Director of Student Housing Fr. James Riehle told the Hall Presidents Council last night that "Anyone who really wants to remain on campus next year should end up being on campus at the beginning of the school year." 
The housing director also reiterated his ordinance against 
AcademicCouncilapprovessit.~~!on:greed with them," he 
dean selection procedure 
The Academic Council Tuesday added concurrence of the College Councils to the procedure by which deans are appointed by the president.
The action came during the ninth and last session of the Council devoted to revision of the Faculty Manual. 
The Council, however, rescinded an earlier action which required concurrence of its elected faculty members in the procedure by which the president recommended candidates for provost to the Board of Trustees. Father Hesburgh, who relinquished the chair to present the case against con­currence, argued that it was tantamount to a veto power which unduly restricted the freedom of 
the president to choose his closest 
associate. 
Hesburgh proposed instead a 

procedure which would require the 
president to consult with all the 
elected faculty of the Council on all 
serious candidates for the provost 
position and to report fully on this 
discussion to the Board of Trustees 
White-House threatens 

d• b b • 
Camb0 lan om lDCJ 
. by John W. Fmney 
<c> 1973 New York Times · 

Washington, March 27-The White House said today that the United States would continue bombing in Cambodia until the Communist forces in that country stopped their military operations and agreed to a cease-fire. 
The Nixon administration's position was outlined by the White House Press Secretary Ronald L. Ziegler in response to questions as to how long the United States in­tended to cointinue air operations in Cambodia and what the President's constitutional authority for ordering such raids was. 
Ziegler did not dcirectly address 
the question of Presidential 
authority. Rather, he emphasized 
that the operations were being 
conducted in response to a request 
from the government of President 
Lon No!. 
"The Cambodian Government 
CAC presents 



"Sunday Bloody Sunday" 

starring 
*Glenda Jackson * *Murray Head * *Peter Finch* directed by John Schlesinger of 
"Midnight Cowboy" fams Thurs • Fri Mar. 28-29 Eng. Aud. 8 & 10 pm 
at the time he had his recom­mendation. 
After lengthy debate during which several Council members argued that the advice and consent procedure adopted earlier was essential to express formal faculty involvement in theprovost.selection process, Hesburgh's proposal was adopted by a vote of 28 to 15. 
The Council then rejected analagous proposals requiring concurrence of departmental faculty in the appointment of ehairmen and concurrence of the Law School faculty in the naming of its dean. 
Then, after some 26l!2 hours of discussion as a committee of the whole, the Council reconvened as a body and unanimously approved the text of the Manual, no:-v called the Academic Manual, as amen­ded. The Council's recommended text will be discussed this week by the Faculty Affairs Committee of the Board of Trustees, which is chaired by Dr. Rosemary Park, professor of education at UCLA, before being presented to the entire Board. 

has asked tor our a1r ~vv· t to assist Cambodian forces in resisting the Communists' of­
fensive," Ziegler said at the daily White House news briefing. "At such time as there is a cease-fire in Cambodia, the United States will adhere to that cease-fire agreement." 
Ziegler put the main burden for 
the cointinuing American mil~tary 
operations in Cambodia upon the 
failure of the Communists to 
respect the Vietnam peace 
agreement or a cease-fire offwr 
made by the Lon Nol government. 
North Vietnam, he said, ''Hhas not withdrawn its forces from Cambodia in accordance with the agreement." 

Furthermore, he said, the Communists in Cambodia had failed to respect a unilateral cease­fire declared by the Lon Nol government at the time the Vietnam peace agreement went into effect on Jan. 28. 
"The situation in Cambodia is 
<continul'd on page 7) continued. "Now students want to reserve the whole process by crowding again. We've got to say no." 
Selection of rooms will take place April 4-12 and all students who want to stay on campus must pay their $50 deposit to student accounts before that time. All who do, said Fr. Riehle, will be able to choose a room unless they are losers in their respective hall lotteries. 
"All those who do lose and who still want to stay on campus should get in touch with their rectors and • give them their names," Fr. Riehle said. "They'll be put on a waiting list, which we'll work with up until next Septel)lber to try and get all·listed placed." 
Fr. Riehle suggested to lottery losers who want to stay that they look for off-campus housing, but not make any final commitment unless they are finally notified during the summer that they will have to go off-campus. 
He distrusted reports that off· campus housing is "almost im­possible" to find. 
"We get 200 transfer students here each year," he said. "Th~y.~ are given no housing, but someho" or another they manage to f~nd 'it easily enough when they get here. If they can do it, I see nQ l eason why the 380 that must leave campus for next year would not be able to find some_" 
The University cannot afford to build another dormitory, said Fr. Riehle, and not only because the financial situation at Notre Dame and across the nation is tight. 
"The trend might be toward on­campus residence here," he ex­plained, "but at most other campuses universities are having
1 
.to sell their dorms because they're empty. People are moving off. If we shquld build a dormitory, and suddenly our students start to move off campus like students all over the countr~ &I:e now, we'd be in a real fix." · . 
But student housing will~~mtinue to watch the trends, Fr. Riehle promised. "And if this local fren_d holds two or three years from now­I think we'll have to seriously 

STUDENT UNION PRESENTS THE TRIUMPHANT RETURN OF 
THE BEACH BOYS 
This Saturday at 8:00 
Good bleacher seats still available at ACC Ticket Office 
He was generally negative on any other possibilities for im­mediate alleviation of the housing problem, ruling out the use of Moreau Seminary, Columba Hall, downtown hotels or St. Mary's halls. 
NEXT ACC CONCERT: Monday April 16 with a maior ar1ist to be announced at the BEACH BOYS CONCERT. First ticket sale MONDAY ·at 8:00 am in Lafortune 

AN TOSTAL Iron Man bookstore B·Ball 5-Man rosters accepted after 12 noon today Call 1266 
1267 Note: Only 1st 64 rosters accepted. 1 Varsity Player JMax) per team 
APARTMENTS AVAILABLE FOR SEPT 73 
~Come see the Notre Dame Ave. Apartments. You are looking for ·modern living, we have the answer: 
CLOSE TO CAMPUS 

2 LAR<?·E BEDROOMS: ROOM FOR 4, 5 or 6 STUDEt<TS 
LARGE KITCHEN, DINING ROOM, 
AND PLENTY OF STORAGE SPACE 
FULLY CARPETED LIVING ROOM WITH A PRIVATE PATIO OR BALCONY PLUS AIR CONDITIONING 
These Apartments are fully furnished and are coeducationaI. 
CALL 234·6647 OFFICE 919 SOUTH BEND AV~. SOUTH BEND 
the observer 
3 
UMMER IN'WISCONSI 
One of Am.erica's outstanding private boys camps located in northern Wisconsin announces a limited number of openings on the , staff for the 1973 season. Dates are June 28·AUgust 16. Com· pensation· includes salary, Iround ·trip transportation, living 
· quarters, board, and laundry. This is an unusually attractive summer job. Consequently, only men of the highest character and integrity will be considered. For complete information, write D.C. Broadbri e, 2863 Shannon Court.
.... 
1 1 
"\ "\ 
I 
the halls beging able to force its residents to crowd their rooms. Some halls have suggested crowding in order to escape having to deny any resident a room. 
"We're allowing students on an individual room basis to invite someone extra into their room after their hall lottery is held," said Fr. Fiehle. "It will be a purely voluntary thing, with permission 
· 

from both the rector and the housing office." He reasoned his prohibition with recent University history. 
"When the Towers <Grace and Flannerl were constructed in 1969 the University eliminated 500 beds from the other halls on the urging of the halls and parents," said Fr. Riehle, "who complained that students were being overcrowded and were living in unhealthy 

AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Art Ferranti Executive Editor 
Dan Thornton Business Manager 
Wt>dnt>sday March 28, l9'i3 

The Envelope, Please 
Last night the HPC met in a hot and feverish session and they left hanging in the balance the future of the HPC as we know it. The meeting came up with nothing except a postponement.... a postponement that was necessary. Perhaps on Thursday night when they meet ,again, the fever and emotion will be gone from the Council and they will be able to discuss the issue at hand much more dispassionately. 
what they will have to decide is the future road of the HPC ---will they remove themselves from their position as an 1 advisory board or will they allow themselves to be~ome a legislative arm of student government at Notre Dame. 
The conflict at the meeting came when Jim Clarke offered a surprise alternative constitution, Constitution B, that differs from the "official constitution" (Con­stitution A) presented to the HPC earlier in the meeting. Constitution A was the result of a committee 1 of "concerned students" consisting of Fred 
Baranowski , Dennis Etienne, Mike Marget, Jim Clarke, and Chris Singleton. 
Clarke's proposal was the result of his· disappointment with A and un­derstandably created quite a flurry in­cluding charges of rbetrayal and bad faith directed toward Clarke. 
r 
r Development of the Proposal 
I 
r What is necessary is a look at how 
r Constitution A came into being. The Sunday after the run-off election~ for Student Body President, a meeting
I 
was held which resulted in the
I 
I 
declaration of martial law and the decision to look into constitutional' revision. Soon after, the five concerned 
students began probing into possible changes. 
One of the students continually em­phasized that· the group was just "5 concerned students" and that they were not official. 
If that is taken into account, then Clarke's action last night was by no means improper. He was just another "concerned student." In fact, it was indeed fortunate that Clarke appeared with his revision for it gives the HPC something that they didn't have'before--a choice. It offers them a clear cut alternative. 
The Hall Presidents, before Clarke appeared, saw problems in Constitution A, but they resigned themselves to its passage. Now however, the situation. is changed. Those who saw problems with A will not simply resign. themselves to voting in favor of it. They have a choice-­the essence of democracy. 

Jerry Lutkus Editor-in-Chief  Dan Barrett Executive Editor  
NEWS:  283-1715  
EDITORIALS:  283-8661  Joe Butler  
BUSINESS:  283-7471  Advertising Manager  

The only thing that was not in good faith on Clarke's "part was the surprise nature of his announcement. Had the members of the council been forewarned, then the charges of betrayal and bad taste could not have been leveled. In the long run, Clarke would have just been exercising his inherent right as a student instead of being looked on as a Judas. 
Hopefully, Thursday night the HPC will come up with a decision. Hopefully, they will discuss the issue at hand with reason instead of emotion. Hopefully, the members of the halls at Notre Dame will tell their representatives what they think should happen. 
The importance of the Thursday night meeting cannot be stressed too much. It marks the possible turning point of the HPC. Throughout their history they have been simply an advisory board representing the interests of the halls. Now they have the chance to become a strong legislative entity on campus. Or they have a third option--neither of these, whereupon they could call for a new constitutional revision committee. 
The options are clear and Thursday night the HPC will act upon the most important dicision of their short history. 
Jerry Lutkus 

Apology 
Contrary to the performance of the last 
week The Observer intends to remain· a 
noontime newspaper. In the past week, · staff changeovers at the paper added to staff changes at our printers resulted in the paper coming out after the com­pletion of lunch. It appears that all those 
problems have been Ironed out and The Observer should resume its noontime circulation. 
Our apologies are in order to the students. With luck and perserverance,the problem will be eliminated in the near future. 
The Editorial Board 
eight-hour shift in November of 1966.

fiarry trudeau 
Out an the Weekend 

The Club 
"G" 
bab higGins 

It recently struck me that very few members of the Notre Dame-St. Mary's Community fail to visit my home town in their four year terms in South Bend. However, in spite of the fact that the vast majority at one time or another make the trip to Chicago, few if any, ever visit the one establishment that is most renowned within the Chicagoland area. 
Situated on the southwest corner of North and Harlem avenues, technically in the suburb of River Forest, is the internationally famous Gossage Grill. Upon entering this establishment, once called the eye­sore of River Forest by an irate police chief, one could never com­prehend the aura of historical significance that the place exudes. However. as its regular patrons know, Gossage has a record a mile long, which I will briefly outline. 
Ever since I have known of it, Gossage <rhymes with sausage) has been affectionately referred to as Le Club De Gossage (rhymes with corsagel. Its only room, one with a counter and fifteen stools, has been termed "The Lovely Window Room of the Club de Gossage," for the simple reason that it has a large window looking out onto North Avenue. 
Now of course not everyone in Chicago knows of The Lovely Window Room and one afternoon, while I was still in high school, I helped a few co-conspirators to convince an unknowing soul that he should make reservations for 14 in The Window Room after the homecoming dance on the followin~ Saturday night. The telephone conversation went like this: RT{RRING.
"Uh. Gossage" <rhymes with sausage) "Yes, could you tell me if this isLe Club de Gossage?" "Ya, I guess some of da people call it dat." "Well. I would like to make reservations for fourteen this Saturday 
at about midnight, and if it is at all possible we'd appreciate seats in The Lovely Window Room.,· "Reservations? Whatcha gonna have, hamburgers or what? You gotta be on somethin', kid." 
The one instance most widely known among the Club's regulars is the invention of the "Dead Man's Special." It seems that early one morning, about 4:30a.m. an inebriated man came in and ordered a hamburger, chile and a coke. After consuming the burger and coke (he never touched the chile), the gentleman strolled out the door, collapsed, and met his maker, right then and there. The owner, on hand at the time, commented, "Had the guy eaten the chile, he probably would have never made it off of the stool." In memory of Gossage's first martyr, one can now request a "Dead Man's Special" and get a hamburger, a bowl of chile and a coke. 
The Club serves all classes of people. I often found myself in thel'~ for breakfast in high school on Saturday mornings previous to a 5:30 
a.m. hockey practice. One morning, two gentlemen in tuxedos, or>­viously drunk and obviously out on prom night, strutted in, smelling of fresh boutineeres and aged gin. One of my teammates commented rather hastily, "At least they dropped their dates off before they g~t here." However, as he was concluding hes remarks, two battle-worn and equally inebriated teen queens followed their escorts in, making snide comments about what kind of raunchy club they were being­dragged into. John, the owner, never one to become excited by ·any situation, remarked, "It's about time somebody show some class in here, but we only require formals on Sundays." 
Gossage, as I mentioned previously, is well known to the Riv.er Forest Police. One early morning six squad cars pulled up in front ~nd stormed in, guns drawn, intending to shoot and kill the reported burglars. John, cool as ever, noted that there were no burglars, and that he had not called the police, and if they didn't want something to £'at they ought to get out. Convinced that there was nothing amiss, one of the officers returned to his car to find a frantic dispatcher trying to send the squads to the scene of the real crime, the River Forest State Bank. It seems that the burglars had used Gossage for a decoy. Needless to say, the crime was a success. 
As all clubs of renownhave a tendency to do, the Club de Gossageattracts its share of rowdies. It seems a certain football hero was dining one evening when he discovered that his eggs were not done to his liking. He graciously requested that they be done over­f'asy as he had ordered. His cordial host replied that t~e said football player could either eat the eggs and remain silent, or he could wear them. Becoming slightly perturbed, the customer vaulted the counter ·and proceeded to fry thecook'seyeglasses while they were still on his head. The cook escaped with minor injury, the customer with a minor 
.jail sentence. 
The most humorous story however, happened to a friend of mine. While enjoying a bowl of the Club's fine chile one morning, he and his accomplice noticed a large moth circling the ceiling of the Club. The moth appeared to be losing strength each minute until it finally 
swooped down in a spiralling motion, did a series of intricate maneuvers, and finally dropped dead in the center of the bowl of chile. There was no replacement for the chile, because John contended "How do I know you didn't put it there yourself?" 
There are just a few of the many surprises surrounding the Club de Gossage. I would heartily encourage its patronage, basically because of its glorious reputation. Called by many a gourmet, "The finest restaurant-club in the area," the Club has one added feature, that of 
convenient hours. It was last closed for one 

''.RtGHT .RrZR me ()06: P~5C FOR­
"Po:IR RUNNING 

C£f15e-FIR££., :£' SHECJ 61V6 MY Pa/NQut::AICV 
H'l WCKeP /AJfiYS IN .NClr W121rtN5 you 
ANO OP6NEO UP .500fi/£R. ;: HfiV~ Be:t:/11 
rH£ Oct-r.,t:J!s FIRST I 'Tll£s BUSY. 
SOUVeNIR ~HOP." NO.' I I 

the observer 
N1ght Editor: Jack Frischkorn As~n·t Night Editor: Albert P'Antonio Layout: Albert and Jack Piclures: Erwin Schroedinger Typists:-: Joe Wildowski, Diane Cherm· 
side, John 'Flannigan 0.1y Editor: Mary Egan Niqht Controller Bob Steinmetz 
.........., 

ll'l .... nesday, March 28, 1973 
the observer 5 

l 
sounder: gentle storytelling 
dave··rust 

Someone has called it "a black version of The Waltons," and in some ways the motion_ picture Sounder is similar to that television series, both gentle storytelling of the hard and good times of two rural families. 
But whereas The Waltons drapes the viewer in a light bedsheet of humor and sentimental sympathy, Sounder operates through a cycle of vignettes that each stain the soul with a real feeling for rural black life, the '30's, Louisiana, parish sheriffs and backwoods schoolhouses. That's not to say Sounder has no humor, no sentiment or sympathy. It has all of these but they aren't · carefullyconcoctedabout the outside of the frame of the story; they fall from within: 
sharecropper family 

The story concerns the Morgan family, an impoverished black mother, father and three children who work as sharecroppers for a white landowner. Husband and provider Nathan Lee <Paul Winfield) steals some meat one spring night and is arrested the next day while his wife Rebecca (Cicely Tysonl watches the sheriff's old pickup truck take her husband away, tears streaming but silent as the house. 
Nathan is sentenced to a year at hard labor, but the sheriff (James Bestl says the law doesn't permit him to tell to what prison farm he'll be sent. So Rebecca sends her eldest, David (Kevin Hooks), who plainly adores his father, to take the long trip to find out, aided by the espionage work of white housewife Mrs. Boatwright <Carmen Mathews), one of Rebecca's laundry customers. 
home from prison 

David finds the right camp but no one will tell him if his father is there or not, and a prison guard chases him away with a whip. He stumbles into a schoolhouse where black pupils are doing multiplication tables under the direction of Miss Camille Johnson <Janet MacLachlan). 
David returns home, and weeks later, 

ACROSS 

1) Martin and Lewis's 1950 --War With the Army 4 l -and the Colonel with Danny Kaye 
and Kurt Jergens. 
6) Margaret Rutherford won her Oscar for being a "--" (sing. of movie titlel 9l Late actor who played TV's "Mr. Peepers." 12-l Audrey Hepburn in Breakfast at Tif­fany's 15 l AII About-, a 1957 Oscarwinner 17l Initials of poet cummings. 
' 

18l Position (abbt.l of Lt. Gil Hanley <Rick Jason l in "combat." 20l What Siddhartha found at the river 21 l Female star of "Those Hathaways,"· now Jack Paar's co-hostess 231 It took seawater to wipe out a--in sci­fi flick based on book by John Wyndham, about monster plants 25 l Debbie Reynold's marriage surname or 
-character actor Swenson 26l An expert 28l John Wayne's True­29l -Came from beneath the Sea 30l Hockey player Bobby ­3ll "As-Goes By" from Casablanca 331 D.J. for WCFL, formerly of WLS linitialsl 34 l Raymond Chandler detective Phillip ­-played by Bogart, Montgomery, Garner, and currently Elliot Gould 38l -.-Time for Sergeants 39l Diahann Carroll's T.V. role 40l Bill Cosby's film Man and-­4ll George Segal's role in T.V.'s production of Death of a Salesman after the sugarcane is harvested, Nathan Lee returns in what is probably the film's most .Po\gnant sequence. His leg has been injured in a dynamite blast and he has been allowed to come home early. Limping badly, he still demands the chance to do his share of the work, and when the time comes for David to go to MissJohnson'sschool and David balks at the idea because he wants to stay with his father, Nathan chases him to the creek to tell him that an education is the only wav out. "Don't ever get too used to this place son," he says. His eyes mist as he continues, "And don't ever think I don't love ya." 
Reduced to this simple formula the movie's story line seems hackneyed, stilted, and it is because the formula is so simple many have labeled the film un-great; it wasn't nominated for best movie of the year by the Motion Picture Academy. 
powerful, powerful Rebecca 
Its lead actor and actress were nominated, though. Cicely Tyson, in real 
movie trivia 

art ferranti 
57) Villainous Irish organization in TV film 
A War of Children 

1 59) Initials of Jim West's partner 
60) Initials of actor usually opposite Annette Funicello in Disney filmE 
61) Walt Disney's The Love -­
62) William Powell played Nick Charles in this movie series 65l Japanese for "attack", thrice repeated in movie title 
66) White, long-billed, long-legged birds. 
68) Initials of actor who played Michael Corleone in The Godfather 
69) Actor who starred in Ben Hur and Planet nf the Apes (initials) 
70) George Segal was King-­
72) Made from two "U.N.C.LlE.'s," 
Spy Too Many 

73) --the Waterfront 75l Chris of The Magnificent Seven 76l Producer .Kazan 
DOWN 

2l --Best Man with Henry Fonda. 
, :ll Producer of All in the Famii.Y{lrst _initial1 last name fulll l-=--t-­
41 Going--Way J 5 l Paul Newman ate 50 of these in Cool Han -Luke (sing.) 6l Samson 
7) Hunchbacked slave in Karloff'$ 
Frankenstein 

8l Narrow range of this factor was crucial The Andromeda Strain 9l Charly 101 Black actor who co-starred in TV's "The Outcasts" (initials) lll Actor -Montgomery 131 Tony Curtis was "The Great--".in The 
43l -Bombed in New Haven is the play' Great Race version of Catch-22 161 Initials of actor who played Dutch 44 l Actor Bessell from (most notably) Schultz in Portrait of a Mobster "That Girl." 19l The --Couple 45l Robert Mitchum's role in W.W. II film 2ll Mexican comedian who played D. opposite nun Deborah Kerr Niven's servant in Around the World in 461 The villain ~ctor's surname) in Rear Eighty Days Window and P.. J. (among others) 22l Michael Corleone's first wife in The 481 Dr. Zhivago's mistress <Julie Christie), Godfather 491 Murder in the-Morgue 241 Actress lead in Gaslight and For Whom 50l Baseball player Cobb the Bell Tolls 5ll Detective played by Bogart in The 25l Cowboy Carson Maltese Falcon 271 Initials of a famous movie critic who so­551 Days of Wine and-starred in Myra Breckenridge life. a beautiful young newcomer to Hollywood is powerful, powerful as Rehecca. She carries herself just as proudly in front of her man as she does the white establishmentin town, but her love for Nathan is unbridled and it gallops across l;ler expressive face. One of the most en­during images of the movie is of that face, mouthline taut and tears streaming, as Rebecca runs down the dirt road to embrace her husband home from prison. 
music by Taj Ma.-hal 
Pa_ul 'Yinfield as N~than, the ot_her nommee, IS a st~ong, pa~sw~~te b~t sensible head of the family. He JUstifies his outburst 
to us believably, and that is perhaps the, Sounder has sounded on key, in tune, and 
most valid criterion for a good actor. 
Little Kevin Hooks as David does his own very fine job, portraying just the right combination of his mother's pride, a child's honesty and a solemn simplicity-that navigates him equally well through scenes in the jail, in the schoolhouses and at the 
t--+-­

:~2l As any detective movie fan knows, abbreviation of one's "modus operandi." :m Actress lead of The Emigrants (initials) :~5 l Actor who played Charlie Chan <initials 1 :J6l Brando and Taylor's Reflections in a Golden­:m Ex-wife of David McCallum, co-starred in TV's "Shane" <initials' :!9 l He is now on Broadway as a "Superstar." 41 l Movie in which Steve McQueen played a 
S.F. cop 42l --from the Madding Crowd 43l Initials of the playwright who received his only Pulitzer for 1953's, The Picnic Hl A type of booze 521 The High and the-­5:JJ Initials .of actor who played Nick Barkley in "The Big Valley." !l4 J Veteran actor John-. now co-starring in "The Doris Day Show." 
fence of the1prison camp. 
The film's music never gets more com­plicated than a voice, harmonica, hand­claps, banjo and simple percussion. All of the music is written and performed by singer-artist Taj Mahal who also plays the part of Ike, Nathan's best friend. (You can see Taj Mahal performing his music on ABC's "In Concert" this Friday night at 
,11:30). 
Sounders cinematography is plain, un­cluttered. The camera trains on events, like feet running though the forest as Nathan and his son chase a '.'coon or women gossipping in the kitchen when the pastor enters bearing bad news, with an attitude that is honest andstraightforward. 
breathing pa~toral 
And what sights and smells the camera captures in this breathing pastoral! We see black feet tramping dusty everywhere, ­miles and miles of everywhre. We hear the landowner in his store downtown ad­monishing Rebecca to "give me some an­swers" with the words "I've been good t'y 'all. "We smell the stolen sausage cooking on the wood stove. We are suddenly schocked as David'sdog Sounder is scatter­shot by a restlessdeputyfrom the back of the sheriff's pickup truck, and we wince as the dog welps bloody from the scene. We share the quietly building excitement as bedtime approaches for Nathan and Rebecca at the end of the first day of his \freedom. The vivid images roll forward. There is no effort from director \Martil'l Ritt to build to any kind of climax. He lets the story flow, from spring to summer to fall, his story as sure as the seasons, and therein lies ~ounder's magic. This. is why it broke from near total obscurity and a low budget to draw pleased crowds and reviews, and Academy award nominations, from all over the country. 
has caught the pitch of the nation in a simple table of characters the likes of which most of us have never seen but somehow have known all our lives. Perhaps it doesn't make the Great Film category--but it certainly earns listing as a fine human accomplishment. 
56l Italian producer Carlo Ponti's wife (First name' 58l --radio productions, making many 1940, 1950 serials 59l Initials of character played by Herschel ... Bernardi in his situation comedy Illl Nickname for actress-singer in Funny Girl. Up the Sandbox, etc. !i2l Actor Franchot­!i:Jl "Mike Connors -Mannix" reads the TV show's credits !i4l Initials of a pro golfer. whose fans are his "army." !i7l First name of actors Hayes, Randall, and Elv <TV's "Tarzan"l 71 l Init'ials of veteran actor who played the gung-ho sergeant in The Green Berets 7:Jl Dorothy's dreamland 74 l Singer Martino currently in The God­father Wednesday, March 28, 1973


6 the observer COLLEGIATE NOTES
Criticizes Nixon 
Understand all subjects, plays and novels laster 1 
Thousands of topics available within 48 hours of mailing

Alioto speaks on urban problems 
Complete with bibliography and footnotes 
, Lowest Prices are GUARAN­

Watergate case and other 
prejudice against anybody in 
TEED

by Terry Keeney 
governmental law enforcement 
SEN-D S1.9Cf tor our latest·

public life that is Italian is
Starr Reporter efforts. 
jesLriptive Mall-Order Catalogue

something we have to live with." 
with Postage-Paid Order Forms

"What Grey was involved in­
1

Mayor Alioto's lecture was the 
too:

"People are asking if we can the Watergate investigation-was third in a series of lectures entitled 
COLLEGIATE f<IESEARCH

save the cities...We have no a collusive investigation." "The State of Life in America," 
I N. 13th St. Bldg. Rm 706

choice." With these words Mayor "What do you say when an At­
Phila. Pa. 19107

sponsored by the Notre Dame Law 
HOT·LINE (215) 563-3758

Joseph Alioto of San Francisco torney General of the United States School. 
pointed out last night the pressing sells anti-trust cases?" crisis facing American cities. Alioto further attacked the Nixon 
The mayor emphasized that a Administration's refusal to permit "crisis in the cities" is by no White House officials to testify at means a new development. Ac­the Senate Watergate in­cording to Alioto, even ancient vestigations. He compared the urban centers of great culture, principle of executive privilege to such as Flprence, has tremendous the Fith Amendment, and accused crime problems. John Mitchell of "masterminding 
"The large numbers of people in this whole Watergate business." the cities today give us the im-­In discussing the major urban pression we have problems we problems, Mayor Alioto explained never had before," explained the most important elements for Alioto. controlling crime, perhaps the 
Mayor Alitoto saw the city as the most serious urban problem.
Alioto: "the city crisis is not over"
historical focal point of not only Alioto called for strict law en­
-
human culture, but also human ployment program, which 
The child-care program has been Mayor Alioto blasted the Nixon popular jisrepresentation of all restot·ed to the budget as a result of: Administrat.iop _ for alleged Italians being connected with the their efforts. The Public Em-criminal VIOlations in the Mafia. "The overburdening 
Cabaret takes eight Oscars, but Godfather best picture 
by Art Ferranti achievement award for visual Best Writing Based on Material effects and the best song ("The Not Previously Presented --The
Despite C'abaret winning eighy Candidate

.... 
Oscars in the 45th Presentation of Morning After"). A film tribute the Academy Awards last night in plus a presentation posthumously 
Special Oscar for Labor
Hollywood, The Godfather took to the late Edward G. Robinson 
Relations --Charles Boran
best picture, and Marlon Brando and a live dance tribute to the 50 best actor. The surprise of the years of Walt Disney films also 
Nominations for GSU 
President , Vice President and Secretary-Treasurer are now being accepted All interested Grads see Barry Wessels 1028 
N.S.H. for more information. Nominations close March 30th 
forcement, continued ~ 
struggle. The battles for women's provides jobs for the unemployed, professionalization of law en-suffrage and work'ers' unions were is being phased-out by the Nixon forcement agencies, and increased waged in the city. Such struggles Administration because of social programs as the keys for are being carried on today, argued "philosophical opposition." holding crime in check. Alioto. {\lioto pointed out that such Alioto expressed strong op­

When It c:omn to piMOS, .. wtll "The statement the President programs have existed for position to busing of elementary 
do Just obout anything. ,made four weeks ago that the -decades, and "if it was good school students. In contending that 
If .,. can't 110 It, we will try to flnll crisis in the cities is over is a ~ough for Herbert Hoover and such busing results in a 
someone who dOH. myth," Alioto contended. "Those Robert Taft, it .st)ould be good deterioration of the quality of of us in the cities know that." enough for HEW secretary education, Alioto cited a plebiscite 
Call me now for an 

The mayor observed that Weinberger." in San Fr... ncisco in which 77 because of this Presidential myth Alioto warned of the con­percent of the people in the 
appolntm•t 174-1335 

many important urban programs sequences of President Nixon's predominantly black precincts are being phased out under attempts to eliminate domestic voted against busing youngPresident Nixon's budget plan. programs such as urban renewal children. 

ttPiano Pete'' 

Alioto termed the new budget "a through impoundment of funds. "Why must there be an exact document which reflects a mini­"If one President can impound ratio? Why can't there be mostly 
u.s.•

revolution." housing money, then another Spanish in a black district, or Alioto has banded together with · President can impound law en­mostly blacks in a black district?" other big-city mayors in an effort 
forcement money or Justice When asked abou the extent of Quality Tunlna and Repairing
to restore those programs slated Department money or defense by the President for termination. money." prejudiceMayortoward Italiannotedpolitical 
'=========================:!.
figures, Alioto the ,.. 
ABBEY IS HAPPY 
to announce our new budget motel In 
@ 
South Bend. Lovely rooms at low cost. $10.00 single $12.50 double Friendly happy atmosphere·· Send your friends and relatives ABBEY INNS OF AMERICA @
~-•• ,. · 52825 u.s. 31 N v·• 
-'-' South Bend, Indiana 46637 
(219) 272-9000 

<next to the Boars Head) evening was Brando's refusal to highlighted the show hosted by Jean Hersholt ·Humanitarian -w;;;;;;;;;~~;;;jjjiiiiiiiii....ii;i.iiiiiiiiiiiMi;;;;;;;-;.;;;==-~ accept his Oscar. An Apache girl Charleton Heston <who arrived Award --Rosalind ltussell 
f{AI#,
in ceremonial dress refused the <presented by Frank'Sinatra). , ~~
late to relieve a bewildered Clint Oscar amid boos and light ap­Eas!wood l' Carol Burnett, 
Following Brando's refusal to
plause. Brando's reasons for his Michael Caine, and Rock Hudaon. 
accept, Raquel Welsh, just before
refusal were the treatment of The other awards were: 

announcing Liza Minelli's Oscar,
Indians in films and on TV and ITALlAN & BRITISH
remarked that she hoped that "the
Wounded Knee. Best Achievement in Short SHAG & LAYER CUTS
next winner doesn't have a cause"
Liza Minelli accepted her award Subjects --Norman Rockwell's 
and Clint Eastwood, before
for best actress (Cabaret) as did World in American Dream 

Sam Belardinella
opening the envelope for the best
Eileen Heckert (The Butterflies 

picture, quipped that he was there Mike McDonald
Me Freel and Joel Grey (Cabaret) Best Animated Short Subject-A 
on the behalf of "all the cowboys­FOR APPOINTMENTS
for best actress and actor in a Christmas Carol 

killed in John Ford Westerns." It
supporting role. Cabaret also took CALL 
was fitting that John Wayne im­
home Oscars for best achievement Best Documentary --This Tiny 
mediately followed Eastwood to
for sound, film editing, art World S.. Our New MEN'S DEN
lead the winners and presenters in
direction, scoring for an adap­Feoturing The Latest the song "You Ought to be in FcuhiOftl In Men's Clathn
tation, cinematography, and Best Documentary Film -­director <Bob Fosse). The God­Marjoe Pictures," bringing the star­2303 S. MlAMI S. BEND JUST N. OF IUSCHIAUM'S ,HioRMACY studded ceremony to a close.
father's other Oscar was for Mario 


Puzo and Francis Ford Coppola's Best Costuming --Travels with screenplay from another medium. my Aunt 
The Discreet Charm of the Bourgeiolsie from France Best Original Dramatic Score -­received the best foreign film and Limelight <released after 20 yearsThe Poseidon Adventure copped in the U.S.l the statuettes in the special 
COME SEE US 
Looking for a good place to buy your wines. Choose from over SO different wines at THE WINERY. Large selection of California Wines. 
We offer Many Specials. 
('IIATEAll MOULIN DU VILLET $2.49 ('11.\TEAU FOURREAY $2.95 SPA!';ISII WINES $1.42 ('II,\ TEAll I.ASC'OMRES 69 $6.50 
THE WINERY 
2-126 Uncolnway West, Mish. Phone 259-9046 Imported Beers Case Discounts 

White SoxOpeningDayTrip 
Sox vs. Oakland A's Tuesday, April l0 $ JO price Includes: Buses leave Circle 9:30 
Bus ride Ticket to Game 
Uncle Tom Chalmbers to Free Beer on Bus 
throw out first ball 

For information and reservations call or see: Leo Breen 3651 418 Morrissey Mickey Linns 3648 415 Morrissey 
SEATS GOING FAST··ACT NOW 
..

Wednesday, March 28, 1973 
the observer 
7 

Bio course offers camping trip 
course like Biology 204 will have a would provide extended fieldteresting additives, according to destination and base. The SMC ties experienc le with a home base, the Crosby. The average night's sleep with the desert museum can be · future of the course is notwas four to five hours. 
exploited. A study could be made dependent upon this program. The "Living in tents in the wilderness of the desert and Grand Canyon future of Biology 204 lieshelped to get us out of the dogmatic environments. ultimately in its total evaluation atslumber of convenience we live in. 
Although the Tuscon Program ' the end of the semester.
It was like-don't let your wild side die," according to Reidy. There was no sickness, injury or accident through out the journey. 
When asked what their ex­pectations of the journey were, 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
most of the students and chaperones were unsure. "I had no clear expectations, 
by Kathy Hessert Staff Reporter 

One hundred dollars afforded sixteen Saint Mary's students and four chaperones a chance to gain their lost rapport with nature. "Mobile Exploration: Man in Nature," was an experimental SMC Biology course for the Spring 1973 semester based upon ob­servations that "the journey is the educator." 
our daily mode of life, biologically, theologically, psychologically and sociologically. Journey, com­munity and wilderness ap­
preciation were emphasized but the vacation aspects of leisure, freedom and celebration were not omitted. 
"As in Steinbeck's Travels with Charlie, the importance was not in going on a journey. The journey became a person that you went with. Every sunset, ever.y 


Reidy: "The journey became a person that you went with." 
Reidy. SMC Campus Ministry, Dr. we encountered became part of our Gayle Crosby, Assistant Professor 'journey,' " said Reidy. of Biology, Mr. Robert Russel, Seminars preliminary to the trip ornithologist and professional focused upon man's relationshipexplorer, and Mr. Andrew 
Morassti, c.s.c. this inter-with nature, theological aspects disciplinary course included regarding living in concordance weekly seminars and a trip to with nature, history of the area Appalachicolo National Forest in with respect to the first peoples in northern Florida during the Spring the region and the development of break. The trip attempted "to the area agriculturally and in­integrate journey, community and dustrially. Aesthetics and self-wilderness." expression were also discussed. In mid-November Biology Following the ten day trip in two
204 

was announced after the issuance Winnebagoes through the states of of the course Selection Book. Indiana, Kentucky, Alabama,
F d Florida, Georgia and Tennessee,
orty-two stu ents responded with the seminars will cover a post-trip questionaires asking why they reflection integrating all the 
wanted to take the course and what 
their contribution would be. dimensions of the exploration: the "We were interested in a variety personal' theological, en­
vironmental and social. 

of students. Two from each major Wilderness was an aspect of the and an equal number of Freshman journey foreign to many of those through Seniors were chosen for involved. While at the state forest,
this course," according to
Morasse. professional guides lectured about ··The multi-dimensions of the the area. Ecological concerns of 
· today were the basis of manyd

course attempte to mcorporate discussions and the professional 
"a creative knowledge of the . of Russel made in­
majesty of our environment" into expenence just hopes," said Reidy. "Creating 
FOR SALE 
harmony among twenty people 
was much more difficult than I' 
For Sale: Two $4.50 Beach Boys tix. Call Ted, 1903.
·thought. When you're in the wilderness and have problems 
$600 stereo tor sale, receiver, 
turntable, speakers 9 months old,
you've got to stay and work them 
$400 or best offer. Call 1188.
out." 
1971 350 Honda SL 5600 miles
Morasse's expectations were 
custom paint. Jack 8550.
complicated by fear of the peoples' 
lives they were responsible for and 
I have 2 extra Beach Boys tix. 
Row 2, Sec. c. Best offer. Call Brian 1728. · 
the dangers of the wilderness. If he took another journey like this he · said, "I would first verbalize niy ' 
2 Beach Boys tix, S-track tape
expectations to make them real." 
player, refrigerator, F" GE Reel 
to Reel. 1578.
"Community is the test of any 
kind of unity. You have to give of 
For Sale -Acoustic 134 amp.
yourself tn get along with 
Casino concert PA system. Best 
evervone." said Gail Fromm. 
offer, after 7 234-4547. 
"Some students called the course, 
For Sale: 1970 Dodge Super Bee
·sunshine 101' or 'Meditation 202!" 
383 exlt... cond. Must sell $1500 or
Mary Donnelly considers 
best offer. Call Steve at 2187. 
Biology 204 one of the best ex­
'69 Honda Mo-Ped (motorbike).
periences this school has to offer. 
Immaculate, under 5,000 miles.
"We combined wilderness ex­
Call 287-9984 make an offer.
perience with cultural variations." "It spices up the year. You get to 
For sale . 1972 power-bill Citation golf clubs. Call 8820.
know people with personalities 
entirely different from your own," 
Raleigh-10 speed. 6 months old. 
Lisa Kinney said. 
Original value $121.00. Asking $85.00, Call Jock 8536.
Most of the students' one criticism was that they expected 
Super 8 mm movie camera $180 
new. Take any offer. Must sell. 
Dan 8427. 
and would have liked to have more 
unorganized time to be alone. The college seems most en­
WANTED 
thusiastic about this kind of course 
Riders wanted: driving to
according to Dr. Wm. Hickey, SMC 
Florida April 13th. Return 23rd.
Vice-President for Academic 
$35 roundtrip. 283-6338, 3-8 pm
Affairs. 
except sun. 
"It's another option for 
Roommate Wanted: tor off­
realiz: ing the educational n~P.ds of 
campus Must have a good head. 
our students," said Hickey. "It is 
Call Bernie 1246. 
what Dr. Henry calls the 'ex· 
perimental part of education.' 
Ride needed to Detroit Friday March 30. Call Mike 1534.
Books are necessary but we also 
n~ed some practical experience," 
Two friendly !elias desperately
Htckey commented. 
need dates to Beach Boys Con­If an experimental program of 
cert. No reasonable offer refused. 
(A.C. or D.C.) Call Bob or Tom
an SMC extension in Tuscon, 
3527.
Arizona is passed by the college, a 
Need riders to INDPLS . This weekend. Ray 3683. 
Need riders to Columbus, Ohio 
Friday 3-30. Call Leo, 1605.
Peace Corps recruiters here 
R1·cruiters rrom the Peace Corps and VISTA will be at Notre Dame and St. Mary's for their spring recruiting drive all this week. 
The representatives will be stationed in the Library concourse from 10 am to 6 pm during these days to answer questions, take days to answer questions, take applications and talk about their own experiences as teachers in Tunisia, Kenya and the Philip­pines. 
The other ACTION recruiters have worked as legal aides in a Las Vegas housing project and counseling in a Boston mental health program. 
Herman DeBose, former Peace Corps volunteer and team leader for the recruiters, said that there are many projects still open for volunteers to start training this summer and fall. 
He pointed out that the largest shortage right now is in Liberal Arts graduates and that even though ACTION recruits heavilv for architects, engineers and business grads at Notre Dame generalists are still needed. ' 

ACTION is an administrative organization embracing both the Peace Corps and VISTA. 
~ven though funding of the Off~ce of Economic Opportunity, whtch has supported VISTA projects, is being cut, the requests for volunteers are growing. Fall r~cr-uiting goals this year are htgher than they have been since 1965, according to DeBose. 
Wilnted: One enterprising fresh­mim or sophomore interested in purchasing a business with a $300­$500 profit potential each football season. Call Bob at 7819. 
Need ride for two to New York City or vicinity for Easter break. Will share driving and expenses. Call Tom 6862 after 7 pm. 
Needed desperately. 5-7 Beach Boys tix. Pre!. together. Mary 4878. 
NOTICES 
FOR INFORMATION ABOUT GAY AWARENESS COM­
MUNITY CALL 7789, W-Th-F 8-10 pm.
War continues in Cambodia 
Nominations for GSU President, Vice-President and' Secretary.
Mekong River, these officials said. daily by the U.S. Pacific command 
Treasuser are now being ac­cepted. All interested Grads see BMry Wessels 102B NSH for more 
The only official statement has planes attascked Communist 
been a terse communique issued positions at the request of the 
informiltion. Nominations close M<1rch 30th.
Election plans set 
Simeri's coupon in last Thur· 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost -Calico cat on South Quad near Lyons, call 3438. 
Found: girls wristwatch Sunday in South Dining Hall. Call 1610. 
Lost: Beagle, tan & white. Rabbies tag No 18617. Reward. Call 234-8314. Area of Hill & Chestnut. Ask tor George or Dick. 
Hitchhicker lost a camera lens in a Red Volkswagen after being picked up by students on Douglas heading North, 272-4424. 
FOR RENT 
Want privacy? Rooms $40. 233· 
1329. 
Kitchenette apt. tor one. Utilities 
furnished. Close to campus, 272­
6174. 
Summer rental -Large, well furnished house, 5 bedrooms, washer-dryer. $175.00 per month­includes utilities. 234-1972 
Summer Rental . large, well furnished house, 5 bedrooms, washer-dryer. $175.00 per month, includes utilities. 234-1972. 
HELP WANTED 
JOBS IN ACTION Peace Corps and VISTA recruiters will be at Notre Dame and St. Mary's March 26-30 seeking volunteers for projects starting this summer and fall. They want to talk with seniors and grad students witl:l degrees or backqrounds in liberal arts, engineering, business·, ar­
r 
chitecture and law. The recruiters will be in the ILibr·ary concourse every day and in various placement offices during the week. See the ACTION people now for a iob with a future. 
BUSINESS GRADS Want to be a business leader, setting up co-ops and making things work the right way? Peace: Corps and VISTA can give you that opportunity. These ACTION agencies have projects starting this summer and fall in 57 countries and 49 states. See recruiters at Notre Dame in the Iibrary March 26-30 or in the 
Business School March 26-27. 
ARCHITECTS Try some new designs with Peace Corps and VISTA, the ACTION agencies. Community DESIGN Centers across the country need your skill. As an ACTION volunteer for a year or· two, you'll work in creative projects. See recruiters at Notre Dame in the library March 26-30 or in the Architects School March 2d. 
CIVIL ENGINEERS In the Peace Corps working in an~ of 57 different countries yow'll use all of the skills you've developed through years of education; all ir a couple of years. A.~ an ACT IOfl.: volunteer you'll help build ilnother countr·,·. See lh€ recruiters at Notre' Dame in tM·I library March 26-30 or in thE' Enqineering School March 26. Try a challenge after gra~ation. 
LIBERAL ARTS GRADS 
Don't feel left out. Peace Corp! 
and VISTA, the two ACTION 
a~encies, need you too. We 11av~ 
projects in 57 countries and 4~ 
states, all using volunteers witt". 
qeneral education backgrounds as 
teachers. coordinators, etc. See 
recruiters at Notre Dame and St. 
MARY'S March 26-30 in the 
1ibrary concourse and at LeMan! 
Hall. 
ST. MARY'S GRADS Pt•ace Corps and VISTA recruiters will be <II Notre Dam!? March 26 30 in the Library and at St. Mary's March 27 in LeMans Hclll. we want to talk to education ll1c1iors, science majors, pre law "''1jors and liberal arts major~ ,,bout volunteer opportunities ir, 57 countries and ~9 Slates. Tn ACT ION for a challenge after qraduation. 
-
.. 

<fontinued from page :1) that Communist forces are con­ducting offensive operations and the United States is responding to a request for assistance," Ziegler said. Ziegler declined to specify whether the "Communist forces" he referred to were North Viet­namese or Cambodian insurgents. State Department officials said that according to their information the military opposition to the Cambodian government was coming primarilly from various Khmer insurgent groups, with logistic support from North Vietnam. The only North Vietnamese units believed to be engaged in actual military operations in Cambodia­and even on this point the in­telliglence was said to be in­complete-were a "hE-avy weapons" unit and a sapper unit operating in the south alon g the 
sday's Observer expires April 15. 
Girl student will be Mother's H•'lper to family with atleast 1 child. Will be observing child for rourse work. 4873. 
PERSONALS 
If vou Me cl friend of PATCHES KVITTUM of MI. St. Mary's, call me at 234 1972. 
D.G. You'~e sweet Love, Rclinbow 
D<'clr "3-31-54", 3 d.ws to the 31st Love, "3 31-54" 
WEATHER WARNINGS: Hurric,lne reported heading into South lknd. Could hit on Friday wt>'rt' qonna get smashed! 
<l'Ontinued from page 1) 
two top cnadidates in the initial 
election. 
Under the new procedure, the nominees v-ill be those candidates receiving the highest vote totals <in descending orderl added to the ballot until a majority of the yotes on the original electon are represented. Under such a procedure, more than two can­didates can be in the run-<>ff election. 
Theoretically, the run-<>ff results 
might then  still  fail  to  yield a  
victorious  candidate  with a  
majority vote.  

When asked if such a procedure could cause a repeating series of run-offs unless one candidate clearly has a mandate, Smith commented: "By the time the run­offs are held, we expect only one or two candidates to emerge as strong candidates. So such a problem really doesn't have much chance of occurring.'' 

Smith also served as head of the judicial committee that made several crucial decisions during the elections held earlier this month. He commented that this election should differ from the previous one. "Fewer students will really be interested in what's going on this time. They're probably bored with elections by now." he said. 
• 
the observer Wednesday, March 28, 1973
8 

Bookstore Hysteria:NO's new cage tradition 
by Lefty Ruschmann BasketbaII. The Notre Dame Bookstore,
If and when springtime comes to 

known among other, less af­
Notre Dame, a young man's fectionate names as the Athleticthoughts turn to .. .lacing on the old and Publication Center, hasbasketball sneakers and getting already been the site of a long and out into the sunshine-oops, make colorful basketball history whichthat outdoors-to play Bookstore includes Sid Catlett sharpening up

Vic Dorr~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;;:::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::; 
The Irish Eye 


As surely as January turn's into February, and nearly as soon, 24 big league baseball clubs /head for spring training camps in Fort I.aud{•rdale and Winter Haven, in Tempe and Tuscon, and there engage in the first parts of a ritual '!that has long been known, simply, as the !'Jational Pastime. T~ey talk, they trade, they play through the for-ma litil's of the Grapefruit League, and occasionally, they even strike. 
Thl' opening of the 1972 •season was delayed for four games because of lhl' much-publicized disagreement between Marvin Miller, the Players' Association. and the owners, and a second threatened strike was settled this year just before the opening of the spring training camps. 
Major league baseball :will begin its 104th season on schedule next
-
Wl'!.'k, hut it will begin with some noticeable changes. The most important\ attracted a packed-house crowd to 
of these is the American League's designated hitter rule, a step which 
p!.'rmits a batter to assume his pitcher's place in the batting order, and 
which was installed by AL president Joe Cronin to aid sagging at­
tmdance. 

There have been other changes, too-among them the sale of a pair of American League teams, the Indians and the Yankees-but none will have the impact of the designated hitter rule. 
But the AL's regular season not be completely change-oriented. The final standings for the '73 season should see the league's status quo upheld, particularly in the Western Division, where Oakland is hunting for its third consecutive title. 
A team with as much showmanship as talent, the World Champion A's will again feature Dick Williams and Charley 0. Finley-along with one of the best pitching staffs in the game. Catfish Hunter (21 victories last year), Ken Holtzman (19) and Blue Moon Odom (15), join tempermental Vida Blue and relievers Rollie Fingers and Darold Knowles as ideal battery mates for catcher Ray Fosse, recently acquired from Cleveland. 
Oakland's big bats will also be the same as last year. Joe Rudi, Reggie Jackson, Bert Campaneris and Gene Tenace should generate enough runs-regardless of who Williams' dh is-to keep the A's atop the AL West. 
But the champions won't have an easy time of it-particularly because of the pressure they'll feel from Chicago's South Side. The White Sox, led by Chuck Tanner, last year's Manager of the Year, and Dick Allen, last year's MVP, finished only five and one-half games off Oakland's pace last season, and their roster could generate a similar effort in '73. 
Knuckleballer Wilbur Wood, and sluggers Bill Melton and Carlos May may not be quite enough to catch Oakland, but they'll certainly be enough to outdistance the rest of the division. 
Rod Carew, last year's batting champ, Harmon Killebrew, and young Eric Soderholm may provide enough offense to lift Minnesota's Twins into third place, but manager Frank Quilici will need some high-caliber pitching from the likes of Bert Blyleven and Jim Perry if his club is to seriously contend for any higher spots. 
The California Angels, who finished fifth in the West last year, obtained outfielder Frank Robinson from L.A. during the off-season, and his ability and leadership may be enough to place the Angels one notch higher in '73. But no more. 
Kansas City's hitting-the Royals enjoy the services of Amos Otis (.293), Lou Piniella (.312), and John Mayberry (.298)-will keep Jack McKeon's club out of the Western basement, but it'll take both hitting and pitching-in huge doses-to do the same for Texas' hapless Rangers. 
In the East, Baltimore and New York are poised for a classic pennant fight, and the Orioles, who have had a year to recover from last season's internal squabbles, should get the best of that East coast scrap. 
Earl Weaver's Birds return pitchers Jim Palmer, Mike Cuellar, and Dave McNally, and the O's added to their battery strength by grabbing Atlanta's long-ball hitting catcher, Earl Williams1, during the off-season. As always, the Orioles will be led by veteran third baseman Brooks H.obinson, but the rest of the lineup features a wealth of young, able 
·the "Rock" for the finals, in which "Tne Family," pre-tourney favdrites, swept to victory over "HawR's~nd Geese" in a contest : curiouSly similar to this year's varsity intrasquad practice. 
I Care has been taken to preserve 
· the flavor of Bookstore Basketball in tournament play; with a few modifications, most common playground conventions are honored in Hysteria: 21-basket games, dunking permitted, no free throws, etc. But the venerable tactic of the deliberate foul (which made some of the closer games resemble the Bengals) will be curbed by disqualifying those players who commit five per­sonals.More importantly, in order to avoid monopolization of talent by one team, tourney of­{icials have imposed a limit of one varsity player per squad. 
While some bookstore purists may howl about the infiltration of skill and' finesse into Bookstore Basketball, the overall character of the tourney will remain definitely physical. Heavy par­ticipation by interhall and varsity football players will insure hard­hitting contests, while the Iron Man requirement makes en­durance a rather obvious requirement. Picks will still be thrown, not set, and loose-ball scrambles will again touch off the best wrestling this side of Elkhart. 
Butnoamountofverbalizing.and foaming at the mouth will en­capsulize the atmosphere of Bookstore Hysteria, so perhaps a few well-chosen examples may do the deed: 
What, then, is Bookstore Hysteria? -It is petitioning the Indiana Legislature to reinstate Daylight . Saving Time so that players may I 
and one-half behind the Tigers, will be difficult to cope with themselves. Last year's pitching staff-including Mel Stottlemeyer, Steve Kline, Fritz Pf'terson. and ace reliever Sparky Lyle-returns intact, and the Yanks added to their power at the plate with a pair of key trades. 
At the cost of only reserves and rookies, they obtained Graig Nettles, from Cleveland and Matty IAlou from Oakland, and that pair will join outfielders Hoy White and Boby Murcer, second baseman Horace Clark, and catcher Thurmond Munson in the New York batting order. T!1e Yanks will be moving this year, though probably not enough to .cAtcl) the Orioles. 
Also moving will be Detroit and Boston, the one-two teams in the East last season The Tigers, despite the presence of Mickey Lolich\<22-14) and a good defensive infield, have age problems, and .a~ without any rookies capable of moving into starting roles. 1But Detroit's general manager, .James Campbell, is looking for one more good season out of his "old pro's"-among whom are AI Kaline (38),,Jim Northup (34), and Mickey Stanley (31 >.If the Tigers get that good season out of their veterans, third place-or better-is not out of the question. 
But the Red Sox, who seem tagged for fouth in '73, need more than a good campaign from their veteran performers. For even good showings from Carl Yastrzemski, Rico Petrocelli, and Luis Aparicio-or even from Hookie-of-the-Year Carlton Fisk-will not be enough to overcome a 
woefully weak mound staff. Marty Pattin and Luis Tiant return from last ~·ear. but the Bosox will need far more pitching than that if th!!!y are to be I eompetitive in '73. 
Needing the most in the East will be Cleveland and Milwaukee. The Tribe added nine new faces during the winter trading ses:>ion in Hawaii, but they also said good-bye to two of their blue-chippers,Graig Nettles and Ray Fosse. Gaylord Perry heads the Indian mound staff, but Cleveland's management has little else going for it. 
Milwaukee has Jim Lonborg 04-12 last season) third baseman Don· Money, and first baseman George Scott, who hit 20 home runs last year. But they also have little else, and because of it may have the Eastern cellar to themselves again this year. 
on his shooting skills for the NBA, games of one-on-one long after midnight <with appropriate profanity after missed shots), and ND's first all-coed, full-court game. But the'zenith of Bookstore history was last years' Bookstore Hysteria, the An Tostal Iron-Man Five Basketball Tournament. 
The tourney was originated by Morrissey Hall President Vince Meconi, perennial An Tostal figure Jim Brogan and Bob "Lab Man" Carbone, in the hopes of bringing out the best in bookstore talent as well as dreaming up an original, mint-condition excuse for cutting those annoying late-afternoon classes. The tourney, ably run by Meconi and his merry band of volunteers, drew some 40-odd entries <although the really odd ones either failed to appear for their games or were eliminated early.) Eliminations, which took place over a five-day period, drew three-deep SRO crowds to the Bookstore courts and also have an extra hour of daylight playing time. 
-It is asking the official whether he times three-second violations with a sundial or a calendar. 
-It is committing 37 fouls per game and winning the applause and recognition of your teammates for defensive skill. 
-It is playing in an electrical storm with hailstones as large as basketballs, and vice versa. 
-It is being called for "dunking" after pushing your man into a puddle and holding his head under water. 
-It is winning the championship and cutting down the steel nets with an oxyacetylene torch. 
-It is using the laundry truck for a moving pick and a parked Mark II for a screen. 
-It is completing an overtime game by the light of the one light above Badin Hall, cursing the darkness, and wishing that the fireflies were out. 
-It is buying a grindstone from the abandoned flour mill so that your team can sharpen their collective elbows before a crucial ballgame. 
-And Bookstore Hysteria is a needed remedy for frustrated sports addicts for whom the hiatus between winter sports and the Blue-Gold Game in unbearable. 
Bookstore Hysteria, Notre Dame's second 1nnual Ironman Five Basketball Tournament, opens elimination play on Wed­nesday, April 11 and Thursday, April 12, with the bookstore champion to be crowned on Frivolous Friday, April 27. 
Entries will be accepted for the tournament between noon and midnight tonight and tomorrow. Persons wishing to enter a team should call 1266 or 1267 for details and game times. This year's rules limit teams to one varsity basketball player per team and also require each club to maintain its same five-man roster throughout the tournament. 
The Bookstore B-Ball committee also needs scorers and officials, especially in the early rounds of the tourney. Interested persons are asked to call 1266 or 1267 to volunteer. 

OBSERVER 
SPORTS 

Students arrange bus trip to Chisox opening game 
by Bill Sohn Staff Reporter 
An opening day trip to Chicago to see the White Sox play Oakland is being offered by Morrissey residents Leo Breen and Mark Lins. Assisting them is Monte Kears of the Services Comission. 
Breen said that he put the trip together because "there are a lot of people from Chicago on campus and there is a lot of excitement about the Sox." 
The trip package includes bus transportation to and from the game April 10, a ticket to the game. and free beer on the bus. The buses leave from the circle at 9:·30 am. The price for the whole package is $10. 
Breen also commented that White Sox officials expect a full house on opening day so students who plan to go up on their own will have trouble getting a ticket. 
Breen added, "we are not making any money on it. If we get three or four bus loads, we might break even." 
In case someone cannot come to his room in Morrissey, Breen said they will open an office in the student union. He said to watch the Observer for more in­formation. 
Breen commented that he thinks "it will be a good time for the people." He added that it should be a good game since the probable pitchers are Wilbur Wood and Blue Moon Odom. 
Breen also said that in case any girls are hesitant about being the only girl, fifteen girls have signed up so far. 

ta~~-Inriclden Mark Bellanger and Bobby Grieb, 1and o~ficlden!-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Merv Rettenmund, Paul Blair, and Terry Crowley should give Baltimore a bit too much for New York to cope with. 
But the Yankees, who last year finished threegamesagove .500, and sbo 
ANNOU.NCING I 
· • 
he Observer has paid positions open in its business department· 
Assistant Business Manager 
should be a business maior with accounting experience will move to business manager's post 
Assistant Advertising Manager 
must be able to work from 10:00 to 5:00 daily (Mon. Fri.) Applications and resumes should be submitted to Jerry Lutkus Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 or brought to The Observer office by Fri. Mar. 30. 
... 




