Qn The Inside 
Ex-domer in guzzling contest 
... page 3 Father Griffin 
... page 7 




serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VIII, No. 39 Friday, November 2, 1973 

Colleges favor impeachment 
bv Paul Colgan Staff Reporter 
Seven out of ten area college newspapers con­tacted favor the impeachment of President Nixon, according to an Observer survey. 
The Observer contacted newspapers in Ohio, Indiana, Michigan and Illinois Thursday afternoon for the survey. . 
Editors from each indicated that student reaction to the recent Nixon controversies had been slight and that students were more concerned with campus affairs. 
All the papers that came out in favor of im­peachment did so before Nixon announced he .~oul,d release the White House tapes. Judge John Smca s surprise announcement Wednesday that the. White House claims two of the tapes do not now ex1st has only reinforced these earlier editorial positions . 
The three papers that did not take an editorial stand the Ohio State Lantern, Ball State Daily News' and the Indiana Daily Student, all said that most of their staffs favored impeachment but they preferred not to express any e<litorial ~pinion. 
Lynn Yoxtheimer, opinion page ed1tor of the 
Lantern, said the Ohio State University student assembly and undergraduate student government had passed resolutions favoring the impeachment of Nixon on Wednesday night. 
The Lantern took a random poll asking students whether they trusted the press or Nixon about the Watergate scandel. Many students trusted neither one. Most students trusted the press more than Nixon. 
"Too Incredible" The strongest faculty reaction against Nixon came form the University of Michigan Law School. The Dean of the Law School and 17 professors signed a petition that was published in the New York Times calling for Congress to initiaite im­peachment proceedings against President Nixon. The Michigan Daily said student reaction is strongly in favor of impeachment but surorisingly 
they have not been vocal about it. One im­
peachment demonstration on campus attracted BOO 
people. 
In regards to the lost tapes, the Daily replied 
"after what's come out so far, it's hard to believe." 
At Michigan State University, the State News came out strongly for impeachment and have maintained that stand. Mike Fox, managing editor, said hegenerallysupported Nixon but the lost tapes story is "too incredible." 
The State News had received 7 letters regarding Nixon's impeachment with six favoring im­peachment. 
Susan Murcko, mananging editor of the Daily Kent Stater was "curious to see how Judge Sirica would react to the two lost tapes." Murcko said an ad hoc citizen's group had set up tables on campus to collect impeachment petitions. "Something happens every day," replied Murcko when asked if the Kent State paper would maintain its editorial position favoring impeachment. 
Minimal Vocal Recognition 
A flood of requests for information on addresses and phone numbers of congressmen was the student reaction the Daily lllini received right after Cox was fired. 
"It's obvious he's opposed to an objective in­vestigation," Jim Gehring, editor of the University of Illinois paper said about Nixon's recent tape actions. "He didn't cooperate with the judicial processes so he should be impeached." 
John Schultz, news editor of the Western Michigan Western Herald attributed the slight faculty reaction at WMU to campus problems regarding the formation of a professors union. The students at the WMU campus in Kalamazoo generally favored impeachment according to Schultz but vocal reaction has been very minimal. 
The greatest variety of opinion came from college newspapers in Indiana. At the Indiana University in Bloomington debate on impeachment centered on the . con­
stitutiOnal problems. "Congress ought to in­vestigate Nixon as much as possible to find concrete evidence for impeachment," Mike Starks, opinion page editor of the Indiana Daily Student explained. "There is an indication of crimes but no hard facts and no obvious ties to the President. These need to be established before impeachment proceedings can begin." Starks admitted that the lost tapes announcement might change this. 
The Indiana Daily Student published a legal brief by a law researcher that claimed to provide suf­ficient evidence for impeachment. The paper, however, has not taken an editor ail stand on im­peachment. 
"Not Nixon's Version" The most original name for an ad hoc committee came from IU. The Students for the Constitution Not Nixon's Version had been established and is one of many groups circulating impeachment petitions. Sue Anglemire, editor of the Valpariso University Torch said the Torch's strong stand for im­peachment at the beginning of the year received little support until recently. "The students are now coming around to our viewpoint." The Ball State Daily News had not taken an editorial position but "we're working on it" Stephanie Overman, news editor explained. Gail Bales, editorial page editor, called the lack of student reaction on the Muncie campus "sur­prising." Bales attributed this to the campus orientation of most of the Ball State students. At Purdue University, "the hotbed of student rest" according to Mike Lee, news editor of the Exponent % of the senior staff members signed an editorial ~ailing for the impeachment of Nixon. This had little effect on the students Lee explained. 
"You could walk up to a student, ask him how he feels about the White House tapes and he'd say 'What tapes?" 
The Exponent letters to the editor were evenly divided on the impeachment question. One sup­ported Nixon and the other called for his im­peachment. 
300 still needed 
Ticket exchange program remains sub-par 

by AI Rutherford Staff Reporter 

Only 420 tickets have thus far been donated to the student ex­change program for the Notre Dame-Navy football game, ac­cording to senior Arthur Wesselman, program chairman for this year's exchange. At least 300 more tickets are needed. 
Ticket exchanges will still be accepted today from 9 a.m. to 4 
p.m. at the 2nd floor ACC ticket office only. SMC students will no longer be able to turn their tickets in at their dining hall. 
The response had been poor on Tuesday and Wednesday but it picked up considerably on Thur­sday," stated Wesselman. If we have the same kind of response today, we will be able to meet our goal of 700 tickets." Yesterday, 270 were turned in at Notre Dame alone. 
This is the fourth year that the ticket exchange program has been in existence. In 1970, when the ~rogram was intiated, over 700 tickets were donated for the Notre Dame­Georgia Tech game. The following year, more than 900 tickets were given up for the Notre Dame-Navy game. And last year, 760 tickets were dona ted to the children for the Notre Dame-Missouri game. 
Drivers are still needed to transport · children from an · elementary school to Stepan 
Center at 9:30 a.m. Saturday and return them from Stepan Center to their respective schools at 5 pm. "There is no limit to the amount of drivers we need right now," statedWesselman. Anyone wishing to drive in the programshouldcall Art Wesselman (8828), Mary Ann McCarthy (5731), or Dan Novak 
(7966). 
Monitors should report to Stepan Center to pick up their group at 10 
a.m. They will then accompany the children to the game and return them to Stepan after the game. 
The exchange is sponsored by the Neighborhood Study-Help Tuturing Program and was set up to allow Notre Dame and St. Mary's students to donate their football tickets to elementary school children from South Bend's disadvantaged sections. 
The majority of the children 
receiving tickets are tutored by 
Notre Dame and St. Mary's stu­
dents. Other groups represented 
are Cerebral Palsey Association, 
Sr. Marita 's Day School, The 
Council of the Retarded, Big 
Brothers of St. Joe County, Nor­
theastern Neighborhood Center, 
and Nottingham Mobile School. 
"I would hope that the student respose to this call for generosity would in some way parallel. the respose in the ·stadium last Saturday," commented Wesselman. 

the observer Friday, November 2, 1973 
WASHINGTON <UPI>-Interior Secretary Rogers C.B. Morton Thur­sday gave the Defense Department chief claim on -the nation's petroleum supplies, putting a further cramp in the ability of other users to get fuel during the growing shortages. 

arid 

HONG KONG <UPI>-General John W. Vogt Jr., commander in chief of the Pacific Air Forces, Thursday was quoted as saying that American warplanes are ready to resume bombing runs in Indochina should a
b r ie s Communist offensive resume. 
f WASHINGTON <UPI>-The administration Thursday abandoned its efforts to delay House action on a sensitive trade bill, clearing the way for an acrimonious debate over Soviet emigration policy. 
WASHINGTON <UPI>-Attorney General-designate William B. Saxbe said Thursday he might halt the Justice Department's reopened in­vestigation of the 1970 Kent State shootings. 
an campus today 
5 p.m.--mass and dinner, bulla shea 
7 p.m.--pep rally, brian doherty, tim rudnick, coach pagna and a surprise speaker, stepan center 7 and 10 p.m.--films--"duck soup' and "a night with w.c. fields", little 
theater, smc, $1.00 8 and 10 p.m.--film,."mash", eng. aud. $1.00 8 p.m.--duplicate bridge, university club 
9: 30 p.m.---music, smc coffeehouse, lower level cafeteria 
saturday, november 3 11 a.m.--information sessions, "notre dame today", library aud. 
1:30 p.m.--football, nd vs. navy, stadium 5 p.m.--lacrosse, nd vs. alumni, cartier field 
8:30 p.m.--concert, paul simon, ace sunday, november 4 
2 p.m.--drama, "l'avare," in french, o'laughlin aud., $2.00 
2 · 5 p.m.--art opening, ceramics by don reitz and paintings by judith Iichtman, moreau gallery, through november 25 
7:30 p.m.--lecture, "who killed jfk?" o'laugh!in aud., $1.00 
8and 10 p.m.--film, "footlight parade", engineering aud. $1.00 
Ford: Nixon should have spoken earlier on tapes 
b~-Gf'nt> Bernhardt 

\\':\SHI:\GTON llPI -t;erald R. Ford said today that !'resident Nixon should have told the court "at a much earlier date" that two of the nine Watergate tapes the 
Bomb explosion wrecks pub 

in Belfast 
RY FRANK JOHNSTON 

BELFAST, Northern Ireland <UPI l -A bomb explosion wrecked a pub in the center of Belfast Thursday, seriously injuring several persons. The blast occurred several hours after gunmen killed one man and wounded a second. 
A police spokesman said one man, taken "lifeless" from the wreckage of the bar was thought dead. He said at least 16 other persons were injured in the blast. 
In North Belfast, a motorist was shot and seriously wounded by gunman firing from a speeding car, police said. It was the second shooting inci­dent of the day involving a r:rotorist. 
Earlier, in the Protestant Shankhill district gunmen firing from an alley killed a Roman Catholic man driving through the area. 
A police spokesman said policemen heard two shots and rushed to the scene of the shootings where they found the \'ictim slumped over the ~leering wheel of his car. He was taken to hospital but died shortly afterwards. 

•
CRAI~.5~;:;~0N
259-1981 11100-A·CAR 


Jordan Ford 
,·l. • 
609 East Jefferson Mishawaka 

White House promised to turn over to the courts did not exist. 
"Frankly, it might have made easier the problems that have developed over the last several months," said Ford at the start of Senate Rules Committee hearings on his nomination to succeed Spiro Agnew as vice president. 
Sen. James B. Allen, D-Ala., asked Ford "On the question of the missing tapes, do you feel that their nonexistence should have been made public long ago'?" 
"All I know is what I have read ,or heard in the last 24 hours," Ford said. "My immediate reaction is that it might have been much more helpful to the court if that in­f'Ormation had been made ,available at a much earlier date." Ford saitl in answering questions about Nixon's earlier refusal to turn the tapes over to Chief U.S. District Judge John J. Sirica that he had urged such action and did not defend Nixon's prior. stand 
before  the  Pr·esident decided  to  
comply with the court order.  
"My position has been  that  in  

surrendering the rapes was the political thing to do. In my opinion 
there were serious legal and constitutional questions involved as stated by the President, but if you weighed the two factors, the political impact and the legal question, it was my judgement that they should have been made available," Ford said. 
Ford also denied allegations made to the committee that the Kent State Bank of his home town in Grand Rapids, Mich., loaned him the money to buy 100 shares of stock in the bank in order to join its board of directors. 
"The allegations are a lie," For·d said. 
Ford said at the start of the historic hearings that "I am not a saint'' and he welcomed the closest scrutinv of his fitness for the nation's second highest office. 
The Observer is published daily during the college sem~ter exc:ept vacations by the stuoents ot the University of Notre Dame end St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased tor S8 per semester ($14 per year J from The Observer Box Q. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second' class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
HANCOCK RESEARCH NOTES 
120 North 8th Street 
Camden, New Jersey 08102 
Telephone: (609) 365-7857 
24 Hour ~1ail Orders of Quality Hate rial Complete With Bibliography & Footnotes Lowest Prices GUARANTEED -Compare & See
lSEND $1.00 for a Complete Listing 
"Smite, God loMS You"


@ @}
DERMSHEM MOTORS 
"Tell your friend to buy his car here and if he does, we 'II give you $351! 
***************************
* . 69 Mustang fastback * 
5 1

* pec•a : green, A-C * : built in tape $1295 : 
*************************** 
FINANCING AVAILABLE "If we don't have it, we'll get It" 
© OPEN Mon., TileS., Thurs., 9-8; Wed., Fri., Sat., 9-6 
• I I, " " 132 ~~~~:.~trre1 ~Aw.'" ·. •: 
) ~ I ,ff• l)-1 •t.t~l t•t•' 
@ 
' t,. ' 
~~ 


SMC COFFEEHOUSE 

Steve Paspek 
*Smokey the Bear 
*Rick Walters *and the Cavanaugh Con yon Jug Band TONIGHT 
munchies beneath cafeteria 
goodies 


David Crosby 
otre dame co.,certs/Student Unio 
and 

Graham Nash Saturday Nov. 10 at 8:00 






Paul Simon 
with IJrUbamba and 'llle Jesse DixsonSingers 

0•;1 of respect for the artist no one wi II be seated ur.ce the oerformance has begun 
Tickets for the above performances are $5.50, 4.50, :3.00 and are on sale now at the ACC Ticket Office ·(Gate .1 0) .and .the-Stw&tent ·Union ·Tidtet· Office. Good 
seats are still available for both shows! 
Faculty contests abortion article 

b~ Kurt llf'inz Staff Rf'portf'r 

!\lost facultv members contacted bv Tht> Ob~t>·n·f'r took issue with parts of Dr. Charles Rice's anti­abortion article which appeared in Wednesday's Ob:.f'n·f'r. 
Though most agreed that abortion was wrong, all those contacted felt that it was an issue which should be debated within the l'niversity. 
In his article, Rice called abortion an issue that is "so clear it is not properly debatable." He daimed that by allowing con­ferences that included proponents of abortion to take place on the l'niversity's premises, Notre 
Dame  was  implying  that  ad­ 
,·ocates  of  abortion  have  a  
legitimate case.  

He said that abortion was not a properly debatable issue at a Catholic University. He called for the University and the Board of Trustees to take a corporate stance against abortion. 
Disagrees with Rice 
Professor Edward Manier, who was the Director of the Conference on Government. the Family, and Abortion. which was sharply 
(THE OBS'ERVER) 
niticized by Rice, took issue with 
his article. 
"Obviously, I disagree with Prof. Rice's contention that the issue of abortion is so clear that it is not properly debatable," he said. 
"I particularly regret that the legal panel on which he par· ticipated involved such extreme. differences of opinion and so little real communication. A number of sessions of the conference which Professor Rice did not attend established the fact that such communication is both possible and \'aluable." 
Goals •arl' compatable' 

!\Ianier said that the goals of the conference were compatible with the Catholic status of the l'niversity. He claimed it made a "positive contribution to the l'niversity's efforts to play a significant mediating role in public debate of contemporary issues." 
!\Ianier also took issue with Rice's use of the terms "pro-life" and "anti-life. "Manier said that "I am willing to stipulate that no fair­minded person could be anti-life." Professor Rice drastically falsifies the situation if he implies that no fair-minded person could disagree 
On Campus and Off 
Friday, November 2, 1973 Page 3 

Where can I get my dog groomed and what might it run me? 
The_re are two reputable agenices which charge very reasonable rates m the South Bend area for grooming dogs. The first one is the South Bend Animal Clinic located at 3224 Lincolnway West. The average price for a simple washing is between nine and twelve dollars. The second spot is the Dixie Highway Grooming Palace located at 103 Willow which charges eight dollars for a simple washing. 
How does one go about becoming a CAP? 
One must first be nominated by an instructor or oneself. With thi~ out of the way, one will receive application forms which must ~em ~Y Noyember 7th. Then it is merely a matter of getting an rntervrew wrth the CAP Board. This year interviews will begin on ~ovember lOth. Those eligible for the CAP Program as of this time rnclude 1st semester sophomores and junior returning from abroad. Next semes~er, second semester freshmen will be eligible come March and Apnl to apply for acceptance in the program. For those who are unsure of what CAP stands for it means Committee on Aca~emi~ Progress and offers the stude~t an opportunity for advancrng hrs or her education in a very open and flexible manner. It should be noted that this program is limited to Arts & Letters people. 
Who heads up the Wash.-Md.-Va. Club? 
The man to get in touch with goes by the name of Brian Mastro and can be found in 713 Grace or reached by phone at 1743. 
Who is the editor of "Tech Review" this year? 
The man you seek is Fred Myers and he can be reached at 233· 8552. 
.-' · • • ' >"· " · ·· · ..·. ; . · 
-~-~-~~-~~-"""'!~-;..-,;_...;._...:,__...,:..;,....,:•:.,·o.i~:J''I 
·.,-.·,-.,:;. .... •.··.·,•·;·'·.~.• ... ·.~:· ~ .._,·...,·.~.-..~.' 
• ., ..... " .... -.-•••• -••••••••• ' ••••••••••• ' .............'& •• •• '•.. 
with his moral judgments on 
abortion or the best legal approach 
to the problem." 
Fr. William Toohey, Director of 
Campus Ministry. called Rice's 
artie!(' inconsistent. 
':\fort' dt>bate nf't'ded' 
Toohey stressed that the issue had to be debated since the Catholic position "is more and more becoming a minority position." "You have to enter into any forum you can and discuss your beliefs, when you hold the minortiy position," he said. 
Toohey said that he was unclear as to whether it was the function of the Board of Trustees to take a t·orporate stance against abortion. "The Board of Trustees does not really represent the corporate position of the University." They aren't the voice of Notre Dame," he said. 
Toohey argued that Notre Dame's anti-abortion stance was more evident and effective in articles. talks, sermons , elass lectu1·es and discussions. He said that because of the Board of Trustees is silent on the issue does not imply that Notre Dame has not taken a stance." 
Toohey said he is urging Fr. 
Ex-Meat Squader 
Rurtchaell to reenact last vear's 
lop level committee on the 
question of abortion. This com· 
mittee was to explore what Notre 
Dame l'Ould do on the issue. 
He suggested that high-level 
symposiums. similar to on('s held 
on the civil rights issue, be held. 
Toohey also emphasized that the 
t•nergy of those opposed to abortion 
should not be directed towards a 
constitutional amendment, but 
rather education. 
"People were getting abortions 
before the Supreme Court 
decision." he said. What we have 
to do is l'hange people's minds, 
hearts. and consciences." 
'Can't reruse to discuss it' 
Fr. Robert Friggin, Assistant Director of Campus Ministry, commen.ted that "even if you oppose abortion, you can't refuse to discuss the issue." 
"There are plainly people who think that abortion is the human thing to do," he said. "It dismays me that people resort to abortion, but I know that not everyone feels as I do.". · 
Sr. John Miriam Jones, Assistant to the Provost, said that "our very nature is a corporate stance." "It is obvious where we 
•

Hulks 1n $1,000 swill 
(The Observer recently received this letter and ar­ticle clipping from Mr. Ruffer of the class of1973) 
To the Editor: As a recent graduate of Our Lady's school, I knew well the drinking abilities of the venerable members of the now defunct "MEAT SQUAD." It is because of this fact that I found the enclosed article quite amusing, yet disturbing. It's funny that a man of 26-presumably a ex-meat squad.er, should keep up his prowess as a drinker. Yet, I feel a meat squad member worth his foam should be able to put away more than 35 beers. I was wondering if there is anyone still at ND who is of the Meat Squad spirit and might like to defend it s honor, and challenge Bill Holdforth (A gen· tleman's bet-·of course). For whatever it's worth, at least a few laughs. I'm forwarding this article for you. Hope you enjoy it. 
Mike Ruffer 
by John Sherwood <c.) 1973 Washington Star News 

A timeless barroom question: Can a lion beat up a 
tiger'? 
This has never been answered. 
Saturday night on Capitol Hill the question was 
whether Terrible Tom Wells could drink more beer 
that that Great Belter of Pennsylvania Avenue, 
Baseball Bill Holdforth. They would fight it out to the 
end. 
The two broad-beamed bartenders each put up a 
$1,000 check, their faith in their basic abilities and 
long training that was strong. 
Standing at the lower end ofthe long bar at Jenkins 
Hill Saloon, the the 300 block of Pennsylvania Avenue 
SE, great bulging stomachs growling and ready for 
combat, Tom and Bill toasted each other with 11­
ounce glasses and proceeded on the road to 
destruction. 
Itwas 6p.m. their eyes and words were clear; their 
emotions quick and true. 
Tom, 26, standing 5-feet-6 and weighing in at 240 
pounds, stood beer belly to beer belly with Bill, 22, 
standing 5-feet·IO and pushing 300 pounds. If those 
noble stomachs could but talk, what epic tales would 
be told. 
Insults were hurled and parried: Tom accused Bill 
of being "a rookie," of secretly drinking Kool-aid, of 
falling asleep on the job. Bill said Tom was"a light 
hitter" at the Redskins-Eagle game, a remark that 
answered with a chuggalug by Tom. "Someone asked 
me if I would be angry at Tom if he beat me," said 
Bill, a bartemter at Capitol Hill'~ Hawk'p Dove .. "But 
•you·can't be angry at someop~ Y9U don'~ respect::? •· ~. Tom, wearing a "Notre Dame Meat Squad" 
,\ 
\ ~ f II'~# f ''II f II f Iff f If If I I I I I If Iff I I .. .,.~' 
stand on the rssue," she said. 
"The Board of Trustees could 
take a stance on a number of 
positions. but it is not neccessary." 
she said. "It is obvious who we are 
and what we stand for." 
Sr. Jones stated that public 
debate of any issue was in the 
scope of a true University. She 
said the issue was debatable and 
that debate was "absolutelv 
essential." • 
Though he said that abortion was 
not entirely undebatable, Law 
School Denn Thomas Shaffer. 
agreed with Rice's article. 
"This is a crucial time and the 
llniversity must take a stance", he 
said. "Our position on abortion 
should be the same as Harvard's 
on White Supremacy." 
Cornelius Delaney, chairman of the philosophy department, also disagreed with Rice's argument that it is an undebatable issue. 
"E\'en if someone thinks a position is obviously true. clearly there is room for discussion," he said. "I take it his position is that if you enter into debate, vou compromise your belief. You ~an still hold your conviction and rationally discuss it with an op­ponent. The University is an ideal place for discussion and disagreement." 

sweatshirt, acknowledged that he canceled a match 
scheduled last week because of a bleeding ulcer and a 
bad back that put him a hospital. He also had been 
fired from his own job as a bartender at Whitby's 
down the street, presumably because the private 
drinking contest was to be held at the rival bar up 
the street. 
So Tom, even though he had lovely, red-sweatered 

Eda Boyle at his side, was not in the best shape for 
such challenge as the unseating of the Bill called 
Baseball. 
Baby-faced Bill, who looks like Humpty Dumpty 

about to fall off a wall, kept two drafts ahead of Tom. 
Tom began blowing bubbles early. At 7 p.m. the 
bartender announced the score at 9-7, favor Bill. At 8 
it was 15·13,Bill, and at 9, it was 24-22, Bill. 
The writing on the barroom floor appeared ' : 

around 8 p.m. when Tom requested glass of milk. ~ i 
Bill countered with more raucous laughter, yet ·· ·. 
another chorus of "Hail to the Redskins" and a claim 
that he was just getting thirsty. 
The beautiful young girls of Jenkins Hill hugged 

and photographed the pair, and one presented Bill 
with a coconut the size of a small watermelon. 
For the rest of the evening, Bill indelicately showed 
the coconut off as a kidney stone he had just passed. 
Bill's pudgy boxing glove hands were firm on the glass,his nose dug deep into foam and his blood-shot eyes glared over the rim at Tom's struggle to keep pace. , 
Shortly after 9, Tom called a halt to drink a galss of heavy cream and some hot water, then bolted to the men's room to answer the demands of his hyperac­tive ulcer. Bill's face was glum at 9:20 when Tom departed, not withstanding the last count 37·35, Bill's favor. 
Bill continued drinking on his own, even with no incentive, his wool Redskins cap tilted to one side, his face exploding in smiles: But there was a gloom in his otherwise happy eyes. Victory was not sweet. 
"I'm not going to take his check," Bill slurred. "He's my friend and he's sick. I don't want to beat a sick man. I didn't want to do it. He said he was okay.Imagine, me, a born gambler, turning down $1,000. Man, I gotta be drunk to do that." 
I
-..I ............ 

. . . ,\ • • ' ~ , •. "" t: .. ) ( .... " ·-~ .. .,._,..,.,r•'• ·,·\•_;,-•
4 _. 
tn'&-· ·o'tiserver · ·----Friday, November 2; tm-;· 

Reason for Watergate 
Republicans feared incriminating evidence 
ST. LOUIS, Mo. <UPI) ­Federal investigators suspect the Watergate break-in was ordered because of Republican fears the Democrats possessed highly incriminating evidence against President Nixon, the St. Louis Post-Dispatch said Thurs­day. 
Navy pep rally to be held inside 

Stepan Center 
This week's pep rally for the Navy game will be held inside Stepan Center at 7:00p.m. Friday night. Speakers will be seniors Tim Rudnick· and Brian Doherty and Offensive Backfield Coach Tom Pagna. There will also be a surprise speaker. The band will step-offat 6:45 and march around campus to Stepan. Be there to rally the undefeated Irish to a victory over Navy. 
Who killed JFK?' 
is lecture topic 

of ex-reporter 
Bob Katz, in cooperation with the 
Washington:.t>ased Committee to 
Investigate Assassinations, will 
lecture on "Who Killed JFK?" 
Sunday, at 3 p.m., in Washington 
Hall and at 7:30p.m. in O'Laughlin 
Auditorium. 
Katz, who has been a reporter 
for the day newspapers, the 
suburban branch of the Chicago 
Sun-Times, and several papers in 
the Boston area, will present a 
detailed program of the events of 
November 22, 1963. The program 
includes hundreds of rare slides 
plus the supressed Zapruder film-
a home movie of the 
assassination. 
He willofferan explanation of the 
theories and discoveries made in 
the ten years since the 
assassination. 
The lecture, sponsored by the 
Student Union Academic Com­
mission and the SMC Social 
Commission, will be followed by a 
question and answer session. 
Admission is $1.00. 
The evidence was believed to written by Thomas W. Ottenad, include information that would a Washington correspondent of link the President to questiona­the Post-Dispatch. ble large-scale contributions 
from billionaire Howard The newspaper said the Hughes and to a favorable theory would lend weight "to settlement of federal antitrust allegations of high-level in­action against the International volvement in the break-in Telephone & Telegraph Corp., because Mr. Nixon's effort to the newspaper said. halt ITT prosecution and the 
"The investigative theory is connection of his intimate highly significant because it friend, Charles G. 'Bebe' would provide for the first time Rebozo, with the reclusive a rational explanation of the Hughes were known only to the bugging and break-in that led President or a few of his top to the far-reaching Watergate associates." scandals," said the story, White House documents ob-
Student directories expected next Vleek 
by Denise Crowley Staff Reporter 
The new student directory will be distributed sometime next week according to Student Editor Paul Marx. The delay is a result of the many improvements. 
This year's directory will be the most complete listing of off­campus students with their ad­dresses and phone numbers. The compiling of their numbers caused some of the delay. 
St. Mary's students and faculty will also .be included in the new directory. The lack of a computer service at St. Mary's presented additional complications. All the addresses had to be written by hand and transferred to a printer tape for the ND computer. 
The listing of all clubs and organizations on compus 1·egistered with the student ac­tivities office is a new addition. These listings will include the president's name and phone number. Student Government and Student Union numbers will also be listed. Another new section is a directory of places around town. 
Although the directory is coming 
out later than expected, it is still 
coming out early, compared to 
past years. Incommenting about 
this, Marx said, "We figured it was 
worth taking the extra time to get 
the numbers right. -We probably 
have a much better directory as 
The Academic Commission and SMC Social Commission present 





WHO KILLED 

Sunday Nov. 4 
3:00 p.m. Washington Hall 7:30p.m. Olaughlin (SMC). 
admission $1 
far as things being right and what's in it." 
Richard Sullivan, N.D. Registrar, compiled the listing of 
campus students. Fr. James Shiltz gathered the off-campus in­formation. The faculty and staff listings were found by Joseph O'BI'ien and Marx and Jim Nowlak supervised the St. Mary's listings. Pat Brady furnished the photo for the cover. 
The organizers have set up guidelines for next year's direc­tory. With these guidelines, the next directory should be ready early in the fall. 
tained by the Post-Dispatch show a determined effort by the administration to link Hughes to the Democrats, the story said. 
"Rebozo, 'who had a short while before received $100,000 from the mysterious billionaire that may have been intended for Mr. Nixon's benefit, played a key, secret part in the effort, the documents indicate," the newspaper said. 
The story said Senate Water­
gate Committee investigators are examining actively the theory of the burglars' true motivation. 
"Ironically, former <Demo­cratic National Chairman Law­rence F.> O'Brien and other Democrats have told the Post Dispatch that in 1972 they possessed no information of the type that, it is now believed, the burglars may have been seeking," the story said. 
"However, the Republicans did not know this." 
"On the contrary, it is known 
that high White House and GOP campaign officials were con­cerned about a heavy barrage of criticism that O'Brien was leveling at their handling of the 
ITT affair, the paper said. 

SAINT LOUIS UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF LAW 
Assoc. Dean Peter Salsich 
(A.B. NO-'59) 
I will be on campus Tuesday, November 6th from 1:30pm -6:OOpm to talk with students about Law School, the Legal Profession, and Saint Louis University School of Law. Of particular interest to Notre Dame Students is Saint Louis University Schoof of Law's New Joint J.D.-M.A. in Urban Affairs Program and expanding clinical programs. I wilt be at the Placement Bureau, Administration Building. 

NOW AVAILABLE AT THE NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
ONE FOR THE GIPPER 
by Patrick Chelland 
Warm, nostalgic, and rich in 
anecdote, One for the Gipper will elight old admirers of Knute Rockne s well as George Gipp and enthrall hose to whom this colorful, bygone ra is relatively unknown territory. 
•..$7.95 

ALSO AVAILABLE 
PARSEGHIAN AND NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL 
by Ara Parseghian and Tom Pagna •.• $9~?5 
2nd Floor 

Onefor 
THEGIPPER 
George Gipp, Knute Rockne, and Notre Dame 

. .. . . ~ ... 
,t ,· ' ' .. ' ... ,..... l.' ... ·' ~ .. ~ ........ ' • • • " ..... 1' • • .•••• ., -.' ••• • ' ...... ,. 

Friday, November 2, 1973 the observer 
5,

Lack of interest plagues Senior Class Trip 

Jerry Samaniego, Senior Class President, yesterday expressed his disappointment with the lack of interest in the Senior Class Trip. 
Only about sixty students have paid the $160 price for the Miami trip while the capacity for the trip is 150, according to Samaniego. 
'It certainly is a disappointing turnout," Samaniego said. "You really can't get a better location or a better price." 
Students going on the trip will take a bus to Chicago on Thursday, November 29 and fly from Chicago to Miami, returning on Sunday, December 2. 
The $160 price includes all transportation, tickets for the Notre Dame-University of Miami football game, hotel ac­comodations for the three nights in Miami, and admission to the parties planned for each night of the weekend. 
An optional trip to Disney World will cost about $25 more, Samaniego added. 
Dr. Ertl gives lecture on new­learning-ability testing method 
by George Velcich Staff Reporter 

Dr. John P. Ertl, former Director of the department of cybernetics at the University of Ottawa, lectured on a new lear­ning-ability testing method he invented, at the Notre Dame Athletic and Convocation Center Thursday night. 
Dr. Ertl's invention, called the Neutral Efficiency Analyzer, !NEAl, uses brain wave recordings received though electrodes attached to the scalp. The brain wave differences bet­ween the left and right halves of the brain are calculated, and then correlated to discover any learning disabilities. ' 
Dr. Ertl chose to research this project after discovering severe discrepancies in performance in social situations and the current accepted forms of intelligence testing, namely I.Q. tests. While in graduate school, Dr. Ertl took an 
I.Q. test, and scored a remarkably low 77. Noting various other dif­ferences, he decided to research alternate means of testing. 
In his presentation, he cited Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, Warren Burger, who in a decision, stated the inadequacy of broad testing requirements, calling to mind many persons in history who were tremendously successful, despite not taking any tests, or receiving any diplomas. Ertl said it is not in the power of science to determine thE' future of an individual through scientific test results. 
The invention consists of elec­trodes supported by a headband, a small oscilascope , a monitoring device, and a light, which ran­domly flashes, with results of 
RoGERS 


Optical 
1000 Al'WILL • OWNH 

Samaniego, however; said, "Beating Southern Cal may help the trip as much as it hurts it." He explained that Notre Dame could "be entering the game undefeated and contending for a national championship." 
"Anyhow, Miami is still a very good team," Samaniego added. 
Samaniego aiso discussed the problems of organizing the Senior Trip. 
"The expensive Senior Trip is a tradition," he said. "We could get a bus trip to Northwestern or Michigan State for about $15 a piece and have enough money left for all the beer you could drink." 
"We were also considering having the trip for the Army game, but it would have cost even more to stay in New York," he explained. 
Samaniego hopes that more students will sign up for the trip before the deadline on November 7. 
··we expect to have between seventy and seventy-five students on the trip," Samaniego stated, 
brain wave responses recorded every 100 flashes. The more severe the response difference between the two halves of the brain, the more learning disability the subject will have. 
Dr. Ertl cited various ap­plications of his inventions, in­cluding: delineating learning disabilities in school children of all ages, providing a valid measure of learning ability when I.Q. tests and performance vary, and allowing high school students to perform own their tests in introductory psychology courses. 
One major problem that Dr. Ertl has encountered is the lack of a great amount of data from which to draw conclusions. However, he is at present attempting to perform NEA tests on identical twins in Houston, one of whom is thought to be learning-deficient. In these studies he will attempt to study why two people who are identical due to heredity can be different in learning potentials. 
Dr. Ertl, a native of Budapest, Hungary, migrated to England and then to Canada. He received his academic degrees at the 
RESEARCH AIDS FREE CATALOG 
·Thousands of research aids listed -Each available with footnotes and bibliography -Lowest prices are GUARANTEED 
For a tree copy of our latest 80­page mail-order catalog, send 50 cents (to cover postage and handling) to 
NAT'l RESEARCH BAN 
420 N. Palm Dr., Bev. Hills, Cal. 90210 You MUST include your zip code. TELEPHONE: (213) 271-5439 
!lOUIS. 

MON.TUES.THUI .... 
'AM5rao I'M 
WID • SAT 9 AM 12 NOON 
COMPLm SNCI'ACLI 
SEJVIC! ALL f'\E OI.'S NESCIIPTIONS HONOIE 
C.I! 

219-7109 
University of Ottawa. He has done research projects for the Ford Foundation, and United States Office of Education. The development of the NEA was sponsored by the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, with a grant of a quarter million dollars. 
Dr. Ertl was assisted by Chessadar Titison, a graduate student fromThailand who is Vice Chairman of the Special Education section of the Indiana State Teachers Association. 



VESTED INTEREST 
Your clothing dollar couldn't buy a better suit...all wool worsted for a luxury look, feel and fit, three-piece styling, flare leg, handsome solid colorings. 
$125 

HOCKANUM WOOL PLAID SLACKS 
The great ones. In a variety of classic 
plaid colorings. Tailored with or 
without cuffs. 
$25 


ENJOY FRIDAY AND SATURDAY NIGHT A 

LOUIE'S BAR 
744 N. Notre Dame 

Food ----Great Drink 
celebrate after the game till?? Welcome Notre Dame Parents! ! 
Start your \1\eekend at ... 

Bulla Shed 
( Corner of Bulla and Juniper across from Grace Tower) 
00 

~·. "•... 
,···..: 
.·· 


MASS AND DINNER 
Friday· 5:00 p.m. 
··ana those seventy-five people will certainly have a good time." 
Charley Morrison, cheerleader captain helping to sponsor the trip also forsees the trip as being a success for those who go. "In addition to the parties every night of the weekend, there will be a pep rally on the beach," he said. 
Students wishing more infor­mation on the trip or wishing to sign up should contact Charley Morrison at 233-9555. 






THE OBSERVER 
P. 0. Box Q
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
question he sees nothing to debate

Jerry lutkus 
Dan Barrett and debates it. There is, however, 
Art Ferranti 

Editor-in-Chief 
Executive Editor Executive Editor Once In much that can be said on both sides of the question about humanness.A lifetime You can find reputable scientists 
NEWS: 283-1715 Lee Gentine EDITORIALS: 283-8661 
John Kloos Advertising Manager
Business Manager BUSINESS: ?113-7471 
Friday, November 2, 1973 
Answers, Pl,ease 
Leon Jaworski, President Nixon's maintaining confidentiality than a Chief 
choice to replace Archibald Cox as District Judge.Watergate prosecutor, said everything But through the whole spisode, Nixon there is to say in his first press con­kept one grim fact a secret: Some of the ference yesterday. tapes in question did not exist. Or at least 
He said that the American people are that is the latest word from the White entitled to some answers without waiting House. forever. In effect, he admitted that there Never has it been more crucial that a is no justification to the agony that the President's word be accepted as truth. American people have been subjected to For today the only evidence that can during the year and a half since prove anything can only hurt the Watergate. President, showing that the tapes were 
He quite properly asserted that his first indeed made. It is impossible for him to order of business would be to get to the prove that the tapes were never made. bottom of the missing tapes affair, but But like the boy who cried wolf too even as he expressed determination to many times, Nixon can not rely on his end the tapes controversy, the St. Louis word. The American public has suffered Post-Dispatch was dropping another through too many charges;-immediate bomb on the American public. denials, later clarifications, and final 
The Post-Dispatch yesterday published retractions to just assume that the a story claiming that investigators in the President is telling the whole truth. Watergate affair suspect that the break­And as the tapes incident unfolds, the in occured because of Republican fears circumstantial evidence continues to go that the Democrats possessed highly against our crippled President. Nobody incriminating evidence against the can show that the box of tapes for the President. April 14-15 weekend, mysteriously 
In normal times this kind of story marked "Part I," but not containing a 
would be dismissed as just another Part II contains all the tapes made that 
fishing expedition, but these are not weekend. And not even Nixon's choice 
normal times. And no one is more for the Vice President, Gerald Ford, would 
responsible for the sad state of affairs defend the incredibly stupid move of 
than the President himself. ple~ding a case all the way to the Circuit 
He has deplored the terrible reporting Court of Appeals without saying that surrounding the Watergate affairs, but he some of the tapes didn't exist. has added precious little to the attempt to The American public, as shocked White bring all the criminals to justice. He House aides learned yesterday, does not abandoned his aides as it became believe the simple explanation that the painfully obvious that they had become tapes were never made. And it is to their far too involved in Watergate, and never credit that they don't. This time the with the dispatch used with Cox, President must prove that he is telling Richardson, and Ruckelshaus. The the truth. press' refusal to accept the White House It's up to Leon Jaworski to give us those story of Watergate has time and again led answers we deserved so long ago. to White House changes in that story. Dan Barrett 
There is no possible justification for the agony that this country has been sub­jected to since July 16, when Alexander Butterfield let the secret tapes slip out. 
More Tix 
Immediately President Nixon told for­bade Secret Service people who worked As of yesterday, approximately 420 with the tapes from saying anything. tickets had been handed into the ACC in 
Nixon cJaimed that the Presidency, the N.D. vs. Navy ticket exchange for which now wallows in a hopeless underprivileged kids of the South Bend quagmire of charges and counter Community. The organizers of this drive charges, would be unable to function if are hoping for a 700 exchange goal. the tapes were released. He asserted, Tuesday's editorial presented a few of the that unlike any other American, he had reasons to give up the tickets and hence the right to keep anything he pleased there is no need to reiterate them. confidential. At the same time he let H. However, ther.e is obviously the need to 
R. Haldeman listen to at least two of repeat the plea. Three hundred tickets are those tapes, apparently believing a needed. Give. dismissed employee more capable of The Editorial Board 
and medical doctors arguing overEditor: the development of the fetus andJust a note to tell yo~ of the learned lawyers and theologiansrefreshing experience my husband arguing the metaphysical question and I had prior to the Notre Dame­of what "being human" reallyMichigan State game. 

means. Abortion is a complexWe drove to South Bend, sans issue about which reasonable menfootball ticket, hoping to be able to may differ without resorting tobuy 4 from students. Experience crying "Nazi " and it is the role ofsoon taught us that the going price the University to foster the pursuitwas $15.00 per ticket--if we could of truth in all such matters.

find them. An hour later, which Perhaps the U:niversity shouldwas about 1 2 hour before game endorse the anti-abortion stand,time, we asked a man in the but it should do so only after theparking lot ifhe knew of anyone most careful analysis, and such anwho had any for sale. By this time, endorsement must never be usedwe were willing to pay $60.00. 
to quash debate.

He reached into his pocket, Finally even if Dr. Rice is en­removed four tickets. We asked tirely correct in saying that thehow much he wanted for them and fetus is an "unborn child" (and he he answered "Put some extra probably is l he •·isks destroying his money in the collection basket cause '1'hen he says it withouttomorrow." 
offering'-proof. There are a greatWe were so stunned we neglected many fanatics clamoring to beto ask his name but neither of us or heard today, tossing charges ofour two children will ever forget fascism and communism back andthe gesture. 

forth. Just to save their hearing 

. most people simply won't listen to Sm~erely, . anyone they classify as a fanatic. Jud1th A. Champ10n Of course Dr. Rice is not by any 
means a fanatic, but when he claims in effect that the govern­ment is turning our hospitals into death camps for children, most

Born or Not? 
people will think that he is and tune him out. Then abortion reallyEditor: would be undebatable. 

Dr. Rice's article on abortion Patrick Hanifin and the University was obviously the product of a dedicated man but it completely missed the basic question of the abortion con­More Drops troversy. There are actually two questions rais.ed by his article. 
Editor: 

First, should we slaughter in­nocent human beings? Second, are 
A small suggestion to the staff of the embryo and fetus human? The Juggler, who I understand are answer to the first question is having trouble receiving sub­obvious but Dr. Rice attacks it as missions: procurement of an on­though it was the chief fortre&s of 

cam pus "drop-off" place for 

the Antichrist; the second is the student work. I'm sure there were whole point of the debate but Dr. 
other artist-writer types other than Rice passes it by without stopping. 

myself who were a bit annoyed to Of course we shouldn't kill in­take a submission to the Post · nocent human beings-the question Offive and be forced to cough upis undebatable and no one is postage money to watch a clerk debating it-except Dr. Rice, who walk three steps to place an en­set·ms to think that pro­velope in Box 583.

abo:·tionists base their case on Sincerely,defending clearly Nazi-;,style Frank Dentmassacres. 
What the abortionists are arguing is that the fetus is not Philadelphio human <at least not fully human) and that therefore killing a million or Bust fetuses has nothing to do with 
Editor:Auschwitz. Dr. Rice replies to this vital point merely by labeling the fetus as the "Unborn child" and 

Concerning Fr. Toohey's ar­assuming this key definition without ticle, "Confession of a Right­offering dry proof whatsoever. Winger," which appeared in The 
He then accuses the Ob!>t"rver on Thursday, Oct. 25: I 
U.S. Supreme Court of playing only wish that Fr. Toohey were tricks with definitions. He also serious in stating that he is being accuses the Court of decreeing the transferred to Philadelphia. This slaughter of the innocents without university has no room for such an mentioning their argument that immodest and egotistical in­there is insufficient legal, medical dividual. or biological evidence to say that fetuses are "innocent children" at Very sincerely, all. 
Chip Romer Since Dr. Rice misses the big 138 Dillon Hall 

1'1ARIL.al, f!JIV!i YOV 
tu£U, 1JIER&'S Tll!i U8EI?.'IL­
HAll filE #161/TY
ARTS FOR YOf/1 YOt/ SENO
HtA;o YOfJR SON TAL..K 
1111!1ANITIES/ WYA
A ffiP TO CIJL.LEGC TO/JAY,
ABOUT J085 RECENTL-Y? 
YOtiRE 

; TH!i NEW WOR.O IS THAT 
ANP THEY TEACH HIM TO 
~/t\17 1lJ

LA ACADEMIA! 
, 

I 5110(/t.IJA 5aff THC tmt..E 1Hl/6 TO 
daanesbury raarry trudeau 
the observer 

--N-ig_h_t Editor: Joe Abe.~l::-1-----­
Assistant Night Editor: AI Rutherford Layout: Maria Gallagher, Celeste Pon­
teri, Robert Baker, Bill Brink Copy Editor: Greg Rowinski Day Editor: Terry Keeney Picture Screener: Jerome Phillips Typists: Tom Modglin, Carol Rechten­
steiner, Connie Fourre, Mike Seidel, Howard Halle HAL Operators: Joe Abell, Howard Halle, Bob Steinmetz Night Controller: The Mad Peruvian 

be dealt with nor lightning to be feared. Yesterday afternoon, in Memorial Hospital, 

Letters Ta A Lanely Ciad 
I baptized a baby just a few minutes old. The baby was an infant boy, incubated, three weeks premature, and with a slight difficulty in breathing. Never before have I baptized so young a child. Never before 
I ­

the other side 'of loneliness have I poured the waters intended for the 
the physical life of this just-born infant. 

Sometimes at night, when the darkness is comfortable and the world seems at peace with itself, I think of the beauty more real than any woman's arms that has belonged to me for the nearly twenty years since my ordination. A student recently asked me about the loneliness of the ordained life which I have written of so often. I told him about the evenings when I have felt utterly alone with seven million people in the Unreal City; about the holidays shared with families in homes where I will always be the beloved stranger; and about the nights 
_.when my dog was young, when neither of us • 
could sleep, because he would dream the 
.memories of lost puppyhood, and wake up whimpering. I would scratch his head; he would lick my hand, and thus we would comfort each other as creatures do when each has only the other to belong to. 
I said to the student: despite loneliness, I have loved being a priest and doing the work of a priest more than I could have loved any family that heavan might have sent me. Loneliness, after all, -is not just a mood induced by half-empty bedrooms or by 
Christmas trees never visited by 
"You know, the longer I stay he're the more important the residence halls seem to be. At Notre Dame just about everything eventually leads back to them." 
The remark came from a roving researcher who is studying the relationship between theology and campus ministry at several Catholic universities. It b"lcks up what many rectors and students have been saying for years, and remains true despite the increasing significance of off-campus living. 
Why are residence halls so important? Because good things are going on there and these good things can be increased and bolstered. At least this is my view as one rector, and I think it is supported not simply by casual conversations with other rectors but by other data as well, such as an in­dependent study being done by a senior in my hall. 
Furthermore, though I'm focusing on r·ectors in this article I suspect that student leaders would hold the same view. 
What "good things" are happening? No rector would claim that his or her hall was a "Christian community"--the phrase is pompous and claims far too much. But all would assert that good friendships are being formed and that frequently there is a healthy unity among various groups in the hall. Possibly this unity even extends to a sizable slice of the hall's population. 
This unity can be exhilirating. Con­structing a huge banner for the Southern Cal game became a group enterprise in one section of my hall; a large number of men in the section contributed their talents. The result was not only a very successful ban­ner, strung between Grace and Flanner, but 
awakening of spiritual life with such a sense 
of urgency that God must also maintain 
the tiny, rhythmic hearbeat that maintains

rev•rend rabert '=lriffin 
children. Married people can be just as lonely as bachelors; and even more so, if a husband or wife doubts the love and fidelity of the marriage partner. The loneliness that people are least capable of dealing with has nothing ro so qirh bedrooms. It is the with Him like strangers boarding on dif­ferent florrs of the same house. The aloofne$_s is as much His Fault as it is ours: we don't quite want Him; He is not perfectly ready for us; but inspired by rumors of His Nearness, we search for His presence as for a over's ghost in all the spirited-haunted rooms. In shy games of divine peekaboo, He teases us with glimpses of Himself; and afterwards, piety lights candles in hearts that are ultimately not intended for candleglow at all, but for the visits of lightning born in the heart of God. 
In my lifetime since ordination, there have been moments when I stood very close to the lightning. At such times, I have felt like some old attic room: shab­by, disarranged, · cluttered with wor­nout junk, suitable mostly as the scene where homely, domestic things can happen, as when a spider spins a web or a mouse builcls a nest in the rafters. (Middle-age is filled with times when spiders are at work with webs, and th places in the mind where the mice aeeeere sleeping.) But at the height of a summer storm, when heaven shakes earth with its thunder, it is the shabby attic room that is most brightly lighted by the falling fire, as every dim corner of neglect is visit~d by lightning. Every pegeon roosting in the eaves is startled by the sudden brightness of its familiar hideaway that has become the pathway of arrows shot whhhhith swiftness and fury from off the sun. 
Attic rooms, knowing their shab­biness, are grateful for the sudden glory of the lightning's visit. Shabby priests are also gratful for the fire-filled moments of their lives. May I also say that lightning, for all its beauty, can be as frightening to a shabby priest as it is to a nesting mouse or a roosting bird. But someday, in heavan, I shall have learned to live with lightning. 
Some of the most Ibeautiful, poignant, and God-filled moments I have known in my life were as recent as yesterday, as soon as tonight, when there was neither loneliness to 


a look at hall life 
heightened unity among members of ~he section. 
Hopefully, the friendships in the halls reach out to others who don't belong to the particular group. I'm thinking, fcir example, of freshman orientation programs which show a concern and friendship for 
• newcomers which frequently astonishes them and their parents. 
Many rectors see the opportunity to build on such "friendship communities," large or small, which already exist. What can be done to strengthen and encourage them, and help them grow? Parties are an obvious answer. With all the hub-bub over the party guidelines, rectors could easily forget that such social get-togethers can be an im­portant educational experience. On the other. hand, without planning and good will they can also become gross drinking con­tests. (It's really alarming to learn that one drinker in 10 in the nation is an alcoholic, and that this is as true on college campuses as anywhere.) 
There should be alternatives to the weekend drinking routine and some halls have been more creative 'than others in finding them. They may not admit it to their friends but some students will say privately that they aren't happy about party-hopping or bar-hopping on weekeneds. Unless they find alternatives, their weekends are lonely and depressing. 
Another way halls can be very important is by offering programs to combat the isolation that student life can bring. It's all too easy for a student to "hole up" with his or her textbooks and forget about everything outside the door. So-called "hall fellows" or "hall families" programs have been established in some halls to bring students into contact with residents ofthe South Bend area, including faculty mem­bers. Many students have found this con­nection with the "real world" very valuable as well as a reminder of their own families at home. 
Other halls are exploring "outreach" programs which take the residents to places where they are needed. One hall has adopted a nursing home,...and hall residents visit there frequently, Many rectors feel similar programs are needed to channel the enthusiasm of the students, and these need not compete with campus-wide projects such as the tutoring program. 
In some halls the emphasis is on at­tracting speakers or setting up educational programs of one kind or another. Classes already are being taught in a number of halls, for example, and this trend probably will grow in the semesters ahead. To heighten awareness of Third World con­cerns, a member of the Campus Ministry team is available to help hall leaders with possible programs. 
In the area of religious programs, many rectors also see "good things" taking place. 
. For years, several halls have promoted good liturgies with a large degree of par­ticipation by students. Penitential services also have been promoted, with varying degrees of success. Now, however, rectors see a need also for alternative forms of religious expression-e.g. retreats, prayer in any form, discussions. 
Along with these programs the rectors sense a need to share their beliefs and values with their students-taking the risk that the students might reject those stan-A day later, in the some hospital, I sat by 
the bedside of a young , married law 
student who had just learned from an 
operation that his condition is very serious; 

and he spoke to me with courage of the ·possibilities of living, =!nd he spoke to me with dignity of the possibilities of dying. 
With words of 
wisdom and grace, healed the 
preacher's grief, and I came away from that 

I ever brought to it. 
The Baptism of an infant child born to 

students whom I love very :much and a 
conversation with a young man who was, a 
week ago, a stranger to me...of such simple 
events as these is a priest's ministry made. 
But in these situations that touch the heart, 
the truth that is revealed is all I need to 

know of God; the love thatjs revealed is all I 
need to learn of Christ;; the beauty thatis 
revealed is all I need to see of .. heaven. 
At night, when the darkness is com­fortable and the world seems at peace with itself, I think of. truth, love beauty, and of God, Christ, and Heaven, as the gifts of ordination which for nearly twenty years have been more real to me than any woman's arms. 
fr. thomas mcnally 

dards. For example, a recurring theme at the rectors' orientation in August was "the need for an unabashedly bold profression of belief in and through our lives in the halls." 
At tin1es rectors need to remind them­selves about the importance of hall living and its possibilities for growth. It's all too easy to become bogged down in ad­ministrative detail or to become overly sensitive to the seamier side of hall life-­parties which get out of control, parietals gone awry, deplorable instances of damage and destruction. <These blackmarks, in­cidentally, are the ones which some higher­ups in the Administration notice first?) But the possibilities are indeed present. 
To exploit the possibilities, however, the rectors are quick to agree that it must be a team project involving staff, student hall government, and all the residents. In fact, it is the students themselves who must exert the greatest influence or the project, no matter how laudable, will fall flat on its face. 
It's good to remember that the im­portance of hall living is not something which began the day before yesterday. It's a tradition which has grown over the years, a tradition nurtured by generations of rectors, staffs and students. And the end result is that Notre Dame's esperience has gone counter to the trend at many schools where more and more students choose to live off campus. 
As last spring's housing uproar reminded us gruesomely, it's not true at Notre Dame. Students were fighting to remain on cam­pus. So it's not surprising, I suppose, that a visiting researcher would conclude that "just about everything" eventually leads back to the residence halls. 

where are the writing irish? 
A dozen years ago or so it was fashionable to ask where the Catholic Einsteins and Oppenheimers were, the tone of the query suggesting that somehow Catholic Education had let us down. I guess it was more than a dozen years ago, certainly it was before John Kennedy's election to the presidency. In any case, it led to a lot of soul searching or, alternatively, sociological speculation. Some Protestants and others were worried that Catholics might take over the country and Catholics were asking why we hadn't or when we were going to. I remember trying to catch the mood, trying to take such questions seriously, but the best I could come up with was: Where are all the Catholic novelists? Why hasn't Notre Dame produced platoons of authors? Where, in short, are the writing Irish? The fact is, as Frank O'Malley and Dick Sullivan could tell me, there were quite a number of Notre Dame graduates who were writers-and by writers I mean writers of fiction. 3everal alumni have, for their sins, worked for Time and Newsweek. A former graduate student in philosophy went from AveMariato NCR to the ownership of Sheed and Ward. (I find it hard to imageine that someone I taught should won a publishing house as legendary to Catholics my age as S&W.) Many no doubt drifted into journalism or public­relations-writing or even deeper toward the circle of ice, i.e. book reviewing. But there are real writers among the alumni too, novelists, poets, short story writers. And if some, why not more? Would it make any sense to launch a study of those few and elev~te a program on the results, hoping to produce more writers in the future? Only a mind dulled by the social sciences ot otherwise bemused by grantsmanship would dream of it. 
I was reminded of all this recently by two things. I agreed to teach a section of English 301 (Writing Short Shrift) and find myself conferring weekly with twenty aspiring writers, many of whom seem to me to have great potential. Secondly, the editors of The Juggler asked if I would do a piece on their publication for The Observer. That, of course, is what I am doing now. The two are clearly connected. The Juggler is in great part the carrier of a campus tradition which fosters writing. Like other campus publications, but with its own special cachet, it provides the student writer with something no writing class can give him: 
ralph mcinerny 

his work in print. I guess I want to believe that there is an ambience here which en­courages students to try their hand at the craft of writing, to partake of the Irish way with words, to find the single voice God gave them to speak their grasp of creation and their gratitude for it. Writing seen as a vocation, therefore, and not as a means of promoting the collective vanity. Isn't that the meaning of the somewhat corny legend from which the Juggler derives its name? On this campus now, thanks to the writing courses and student publications, perhaps in spite of them or just independently of them, apprentice writers are seeking a style and vision with which to priase Our Lady, our Alma Mater, our geflius loci. The Blessed Virgin Mary compared to the air we breathe, as Hopkins put it. Where are the Writing Irish? Circumspice. 

exploration was at its peak. ·Today · inale~:t;fot'tl'l«! tatto is·so uneven we have a larger problem, the that males are more eligiblechance of nuclear war. This would prospects for such a condition, and obliterate any chance man has of a lone female at a party is in that continuing to advance his state due more to the un­
relatively young civilization. friendliness of the boys than to any
Maybe these UFO's are here to fault or "deficiency" in her person. tell us something. Maybe they have a vested interest in us -Erich Liz Coughlin & Marirose Lescher von Daniken, the author o Chariots or the Gods and co-producer with 
You Guessed It,

Rod Serling of the TV special, "In Search of Ancient Astronauts," 

Fr. Bill

says that when ancient religions Editor: talk about a time when "gods At the risk of appearing over­walked with men" they could very. 
critical, I had to express mywell be telling the truth. Maybe, ~oncern over what I consider to be 

the time limit imposed on the of •the members of the House and hopefully, the UFO's have come to a serious matter. Fr. Bill Toohey Alcoholic turnover of the evidence. Finally, Senate may be obtained from the save us from ourselves, atomic is going to have to do a lot better 
war would destroy a world of
the action Mr. Nixon took in firing Clerk of the House, House Office than weak attempts at parody if he Archibald Cox cannot be proved to Building, Washington 20510 and the plans to undo the bad effects of his
people they might feel are worth

Concern 

saving.
be based on a desire to obstruct Secretary of the Senate, Senate hasty rhetoric earlier in the
Editor: Ed Byrne
justice. Office Building, Washington 20515 semester. I would like to use this campus That all three television net­respectively. As readers of 'The Observer 1~1edium to reach as many works choose to broadcast Mr. There is so much of life to be know, several people have written

Wallflowers,
t~wmbers of the Notre Dame Nixon's speeches is indicative only enjoyed by everyone and so much recently to voice their dismay at Family as possible regarding a of their interest in what he has to to be done to improve the quality of Fr. Toohey's ill-considered and subject which I feel is very nearly say. The President's dislike of the life. Don't allow the futility of war Indeed! intemperate remarks about a problem and very wide reaching press is an excusable reaction to to stop it. Editor: "Communist oppression". It is an 
in our C'ommunity. The subject, it's attitude towards him. As for Sin.~erely open secret that his article which everyone has heard of, is the executive coup, the im­Concerning Tom Ross's "Confessions of a Right Winger"
Scott Wm. Braley, '71

drinking. Now, please don't stop pounding of certain funds by Mr. correspondance with the October Oct. 25, was nothing more than a lreading; I'm not trying to come Nixon is hardly usurpation ·of 30th issue of The Observer, we feel feeble attempt to laugh the

Warnings
across as a moralist or one op­Congressional budget power, while it to be saturated with an osten­charges off rather than meet them posed to drinking, I'm just asking his appointment of con­tatious display of immaturity. The head on. everyone to be careful and prudent verservatives to the Supreme From Above snide insinuation that the "not so It is significant to note that not when using alcohol. Drinking has Court is a natural action for a silent female minority" should be only has Fr. Toohey not denied the its place and this University does conservative. That this action was Editor: silent and that their letters are statements attributed to him but not frown on the use of alcohol predisposed. by a fear of con­About a month ago I read an "worthless trash" is unfair and has not even disassociated himself within limits. We can drink as frontation is ridiculous due to the article in your paper that referred most subjective. from that kind of rhet<>ric. At the much and as often as we please, fact that the appointments were to a number of repc)rted sightings The presentation · of un­very least, Fr. Toohey's excessive but are we exercising our freedom 111ade long before such a possibility of UFO's in the south. The point substantiated "facts" is not fitting anti-Communist statements are responsibly when we become existed. Since no such challenge that struck me was the nature of material to put in a published inconsistent with his leadership in obnoxiously or unconsciously has yet occurred, Mr. Aiello's the observers. They were military letter. Your implication of quasi­the drive to impeach Nixon. Until drunk -are we being fair to others -assumption of the outcome is police from an airbase in Georgia male superiority is contradicted Fr. Toohey clearly repudiates and most of all are we being fair to hardly valid. and a couple of state police who and negated by the sweeping these rash remarks, people have ourselves? We must all learn our An indictment can be returned claimed they were run off the road generalization, "The general no choice but to wonder at his limits and abide by them. _Don't only in the event of sufficient in separate incidents by lumin­consensus has it that dating SMC genuine dedication to the impeach abuse the freedom we have by evidence of criminal action. I scent objects traveling at great or ND women can be hazardous to Nixon effort. We can only hope drinking ourselves out of our maintain that this evidence doesn speeds. one's health." Statistics would be that Ft·. Toohey will address minds. We relinquish our free will not exist, and that a move to_ im­This 1·eport brought to mind the most desirable for the "many himself seriously to these issues when we drink to excess as well as peach Richard M. Nixon for legal fu1·or touched off a few years ago cases" of that not-so "journalistic soon. possibly harming our bodies. actions such as Cox' firing is not when reports, again from masterpiece." After all, McCarthyism is not a Really, what fun is it getting sick only illegal, but far more an in­1·eputable sources, indicated that Also the connotation concerning joking matter. Just ask anyone or being hungover or regretting dication of systemic decay than a we might have visitors unlike the term "wallflower" must not be who lived through it. something we've· done? I'm not failure to impeach. anyone we've ever met before. confined to the female sex; it 
Yours,

trying to accuse or reprimand The reports came while space should encompass primarily the
Sincerely, Larry Quinlan anyone, I just ask that we all stop David W. McAlpine
and think when and if we drink. Thank you. 


Mail Call 

Name withheld by request Editor: Believing that there are some

Another 

people on your campus who would help ·me get out of prison, I should 

Defense 

appreciate it if you would publishEditor: 
this letter. As I am anxious to get out of 
In response to Greg Aiello's prison into the real struggle for Opinion column, I would like to economic and political equality. I make the following remarks: 

should like very much to 1\lr. Aiello defines impeachment correspond with' anyone who is as "an indictment based on willing to help me. regain myevidence of wrongdoing." As his freedom. 
"evidence". he enters a statement Surely none of you even suspectthe American Civil

attributed to that prison is a place where a man
Liberties Union, concerning or woman should seek con­wiretaps, the Cambodian bombing, tentment.

and the White House 'plumbers'. 
Best wishesAbout this, I believe the following Frank .W. Burrell 104326observations are valid. 
Jackson Prison
At the time Mr. Nixon's P.O. Box E
operatives used wiretaps on 
Jackson, Michigan

certain elements of the press, such taps were not illegal. There exists no evidence that !\1r. Nixon has flaunted the Supreme Court del'ision concerning wiretaps. For a time of hours, American bom­be,·s flew missions over Cambodia Tl vCe letters until that fact was leaked to the press. The original action was not ' illegal. and when the bombing did Editor: stop, it was not by an act of I am writing to ask your Congress. That members of Mr. assistance. :\ixon's staff 'spy' on other The Mid-East war distresses me politicians is hardly unusual and I am asking the students of t'Onsidering that each of his op­Notre Dame .and Saint Mary's to do ponents accords him the same something to stop it. It distresses privilege. That Mr. Nixon me because it poses a very real authorized the burgling of his threat to the existence young opponents has not been proven. American men and women enjoy. The means through which Mr. But more so it distresses me :'o;ixon withheld the Watergate because of its useless expenditure tapes from the courts were strictly of lives. Not only those lives lost in iegal, as was his 'defiance'. This is conflict; but also, the countless the first instance of an appeal lives altered and irreparably being called defiance and implied damaged by war. to be illegal that I have ever heard Please ask the ND-SMC com­
_, of. Perhaps the ACLU means Mr. munity to act to avoid the con­Nixon's attempted compromise tinuation of this conflict. En­with Mr. Cox !I!? .'defi~nce', yet, courage writing to Congressmen, here also, Mr. Nixon did not exceed Senators, the President, etc. A list 



Fire b-urns 2,500 acres 
LOS ANGELES (UPI) -:A search was underway Thursday for a youthful arsonist who fire investigators believe set a 2,500­acre blaze which swept through brush in a seaside neighborhood and forced evacuation of hundreds of expensive homes. 
"The fire was set," Capt. David Brown of the county fire department said. "It occurred in an area where there could not have been an accident." 
A ranch worker told inves­tigators he saw a teen-ager running from the scene where the fire began in Topanga Canyon only minutes before it was discovered. Authorities said they believe they know the­youth's identity and hoped to make an arrest soon. 
Only a handful of fire fighters remained on the scene Thurs­day, keeping a watch on the few remaining hot spots. The blaze was officially contained Wednesday night, Z7 hours after it began. 
';J.'he fire, fanned by hot, dry winds, broke out Tuesday afternoon in Topanga Canyon, just inland from the Pacific Ocean. Flames shoting 50 feet 
(continued on page 10) 
OCT. 26 -NOV. 4 
·MEXICAN FOLK ART -3 DOOR PRIZES DAILY -GRAND P,RIZE NOV. 3 
r 


10~ Tacos 
Sat. Nov. 3 from 12 noon until they're gone. 
(3500 will be served) 
(Feedbag Snack Bar) 
ier , m o1•ts
-.· .,_.,~-~1·11,-,IN -:ZSNIII 
,_•100 Center Complex Mishawaka 
...... ON-·a.._, 

World's biggest 
Taking top honors in the Halloween pumpkin-cutting contest Wednesday night were Bart Pollock, Bill Sturm, Jed Eide and Pete McHugh with their "World's Biggest Pumpkinhead." Sponsored by 
Student  Government,  
judgement  was  held  in  the  
contest  at  midnight,  
Halloween.  CPhoto by  Mike  
Budd)  

.. 

. , ..... ,, ..,., ,··, ·l ~·,; ... : .. -.-.. -.:. I •
.? c 
9

Frida\', November 2, 1973 the observer. 

A NIGHT WITH 



W. C. FIELDS 
and 


THE MARX BROTHERS 
(in "Duck Soup") 
at The little Theatre SMC Friday Nov. 2 -$1.00 admission Both shows at 7 & 10 pm Sponsaed by The Collegiate Choir 



EN MEDIO Sarl<ho/AS-9247 

AT·AYR-WAY 
Michael White: The land of Spirit and 
light Mel Brown: Big Foot Country Girl Dewey Redman: The Ear of The 
Behearer Sam Rivers: Streams John Klemmer: Intensity Saracho: En Medio Keith Jarrett: Fort Yawuh Sun Ra: Magic City John Coltrane: live in Japan Gato Barbieri: Gato-Chapter I : 
Latin America Marion Brown: Gee Chee 
Recollections Various Artists: The Saxophone Pharoah Sanders: The New 
Pharoah Sanders Sun Ra: Astro Black 
FOR OIILY $3.28 
Charlie Haden: liberation Music Orchestra John Coltrane: A Love Supreme John Coltrane: Ascension John Coltrane: Lulu Se Mama John Coltrane: Meditations John Coltrane: Expression John Coltrane: Om Pharoah Sanders: Jewels of Thought Alice Coltrane/Pharoah Sanders: Ptah The El Daoud Pharoah Sanders: Summun-Bukmun-Umvun John Coltrane: The Best of John Coltrane 
John Coltrane/Pharoah Sanders: John Coltrane live in Seattle Featuring Pharoah Sanders Alice Coltrane/Pharoah Sanders: Journey in Satchidananda Featuring Pharoah Sanders 
Pharoah Sanders: Thembi John Coltrane: Sun Ship Alice Coltrane: World Galaxy Pharoah Sanders: Black Unity Archie Shepp: Attica Blues John Coltrane: The BesUlf 
John Coltrane Vol. 2 Alice Coltrane: Lord of Lords Various Artists: Energy Essentials Pharoah Sanders: The Best of 
Pharoah Sanders Archie Shepp: The Cry of My People Pharoah Sanders: Wisdom Through 
Music Ahmad Jamal: Tranquility Sun Ra: Atlantis 

All IMPUlSE SELEC110NS ARE AlSO AVAilABlE AS rAPES. 




Friday, November 2, 1973
) the observer 
Will not withdraw 
Israel demands immediate negotiations 
Scholastic. Observer 




to produce CE book 
by Joseph LaFlare Staff Reporter 
The Scholastic and The Ob­erver are working together again his year to produce the course ·valuation booklet. 
"This year's booklet should be nore comprehensive than last :ear's" said Kerry McNamara, 

c•ditor of the Scholastic. "Last year's booklet had some problems which hopefully willnot occur again." 
The course evaluation booklet 
-,·ill include 1. all required courses n each department and 2. those 11ajor and elective courses which 
,;eem to be most popular in each jepartment. 

McNamara has three goals for this year's booklet: one, better listribution; two, more com­,.>rehensive and therefore more useful information and three, Jetter quality evaluations. McNamara 
The Scholastic and the Observer et all the technical information 26, said McNamara. Pre­oncerning the courses from the registration begins November 29. 
Registrar's office. "We will con­"Our biggest problem is getting inue to give them information as the departments to cooperate and Wl' have in the past and to assist in hand their course lists in on time " the cross-referencing of the noted McNamara. "Ma~y booklet," said Richard Sullivan, departments wait until the last Registrar of the University. minute to give us their course lists 
The course evaluation booklets and then expect good coverage in will be distributed on November the booklet.That's impossible." 
Youthful arsonist sought 
$80,000 to $100,000 range, was destroyed.
(continued from page 9) 

About 500 residents were into the air blazed through dry evacuated from the Castelam­br·ush 12 feet high, leaping marre and Fernwood neighbor­roads and sending spearheads hood Tuesday night and another of flames through back yards to 20 homes in the Palisades within 20 feet of some homes. Highlands were evacuated at 
Miraculously, none of the noon Wednesday during a brief homes, many of them in the flare-up. 

OPENING NOV. 9 


THE ATTIC 
in South Bend-watch for it 
'· 

CINEMA 

A Festival of American Movie Musicals 
BUNDAV. NOVEMBER 4. THRDL..IBH THABOAV. NOVEMBER B 
Sun~ay-Busby Berkely Is FOOTLI GET PARADE 
~ 8 and 10 pmMonua~-Mamoulian 's APPLAUSE 1.~~ 8 and 10 pm 
~uay-Donen and Kelly's SINGI:;' Dr TEE PAD: \A~ orl" 8 and 10 nm uvt:UneMidV-3eor{ie Cukor 's A STAR IS BORN ~ 8 and 10 p~Thur3uay -Stanley Donen Is FUNNY FACE 
8 and 10 p!!1 

All showings in the ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM 
admission: 5'1.00 EACH PERFORMANCE • *PATRONS FREE* • 


Why not let a kid from South Bend sit in the rain??? 
NO-NAVY TICKET EXCHANGE 


HELP II 
We still need 300 tickets to reach our goal. 
(The game will be tele­vised on WNDU anyways.) 
Second Floor Ticket Window ACC 
' .I 
.. :~ ~·._··......,.. \~·.~:o:N:Yn:.:·:-4 :pM· ·, ·:. ·I :-I 
• ';> 1, -I It 
• I 

\Iiddle East cease-fire for the
\Irs. :\ll'ir said there ean be
!h t"nitt>d J>rt'!>!> lntt>rnational 
sl'cond consecutive day by
no withdrawal to the controver­
israel rrfused Thursday to 
trying to break out of their trap
sial Ort. 22 cease-fire lines
ithdraw its forces from the on the East Bank of the Suez
hl'rause neither party can
·est Bank of the Suez Canal Canal. It said the Egyptiafls
dl'tl'rmine the exact position of
nless Egypt is willing to withdrew after a one-hourthe line.
~·gotiate face-to-face on the 
infantry. tank and artillery
The Arabs. Egypt in par­
.!1ddle East eonflict. Egypt hattie. The F.gyptians denied
tirula r. have steadfastly
.aid its troops would force the 
r·l'fused to negotiate directly the t·harge.
<oral'lis off the west bank if 
Earlier Israel charged that
with Israel to settle the Middle
t'rl'ssary. 
East t-risis. Egyptian President :lrd Army troops made two attacks on Israeli positionsIsraeli Premier Golda 1\teir Anwar Sadat said in Cairo WPdnesday. It said Israeli:1ade the statement of refusal Wl'dnesday there would be 
troops killed six Egyptians in
'l pullout following a one-hour "no" direct negotiations. ;Ilk with President Nixon, l\lrs. :\leir said she absolutely the two incidents along the 'hirh was described as very opposes the participation of Suez-Cairo highway. ·ronst ructive." Wt>sl European countries in any The fighting flared even as 
negotiations. 
senior Egyptian and Israeli There had been speculation "I don't think the negotiations officers mel on the Cairo-Suez 
!lw l"nited States has been road to discuss further im·
should be a free-for-all. These 
t:·ying to pressure the Israelis plenwnlalion of the cease-fire.
are negotiations between Israel 
nto a quick settlement. This :\hs. 1\leir said after talks
and its neighbors who fought a 
·.1 as denied by the State war. I don't see what other with :--:ixon. which "clarified l>Ppartment Thursday. rounlries ran do about it. They certain issues." that "we have no right to eome there 
cannot withdraw to a line when
"I was reassured ... that we 

t>ven a spokesn1an for the
and protect their interests."
ha1·e a common goal, the 
l'niled Nations in Cairo said
:\hs. l\1eir's announcement
l"nited States and Israel," said the other day he doesn't know
came as Israel charged the
\lrs. :\1eir. but she did not where it <the line> is."
Egyptian 3rd Armv violated the
elaborate. 
''The question of the Oct. 22 turn over a list of Israeli pows
line is the most mvsterious until Israel withdraws to the
thing in the world today," Mrs. 
t·ease-fire lines.

:\leir said. "It may be a question which should be taken With the United States up between the parties.' 
denying it was trying to force a :\Irs. !\leir also ruled out the peace settlement, State Depart­t•stablishment of any Palestini· tnt•nl spokesman Robert J. an state on the west bank of the :\kCloskey said. "Our effort Jordan River as an element of here is to assist the parties to :\1 iddle East peace settlement. find means to reduce the 
She again reiterated the Israeli 
differences between them. We prisoner of war issue is are not seeking ways to paramount in any negotiations. pressure one side against the 
olhPr"

The Egyptians have refused to 


SUNDAY MASSES 
Main Church 
5:15 p.m. Sat. Fr. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 9:30a.m. Sun. Fr. George Wiskirchen, C.S.C. 
10:45 a.m. Sun. Fr. Andrew Ciferni, 0. Praem.. 
Fr. William Toohey, C.S.C. I

L2:1S p.m. Sun. 
I 
I 


~-~~-­

Irish icers open at Michigan Tech 
four games. captain Ric Sc~afer still centering ktlhng sttua~ons. . . ability. 
by Jobn Fineran 

Houghton, Mich. Not the kind of town you would want to spend an early-November weekend in. The cold Canadian fronts come whipping unmolested across Lake Superior, dropping their snows upon Michigan's Upper Peninsula. 
Lefty Smith's Notre Dame hockey squad can think of other places it would like to spend its early-November weekend in. The weather forecast for Houghton this weekend is snow. The hockey forecast for Notre Dame this weekend is tough. 
Because tough is the word that can best describe Michigan Tech. John Macinnes' Huskies had a jump on the Irish in opening the season last weekend, and they took the best of this opportunity, downing Lake Superior State twice by 7-1 and 8-3 scores. 
Irish assistant coach Kevin Hoene, who is used to this type of weather in his hometown of Duluth, Minn., saw the opening game between Tech and Lake Superior, and said, "Michigan Tech has a very good hockey club." 
Smith agreed after Hoene brought the scouting report on the Huskies back to South Bend last Saturday. "Michigan Tech has a very physical, strong forechecking club," he said. 
"And in order to beat them,'we must adjust to their quickness." 
"Michigan Tech uses a disciplined forecheck, and it broke down very few times last week. That's good for this time of year, and that's why they are a good team." 
Some of those forwards who performed well against Lake Superior State last weekend and who hope to do the same against the Irish this weekend are Bob D'Alvise, Graham Wise, Mike Zuke, Lorne Stamler and Goerge Lyle, the latter three making up the Huskies' potent first line. 
"Lyle is big," Hoene said. "He is a sophomore-transfer, and he was impressive last weekend." 
Another forward who saw limited action last weekend, but who is ,expected to see more againstthe Irish is senior wing Tom Usitalo. 
"Their forwards are as good as any in the league," Hoene said. "If they play like they did last weekend, they will give us a lot of trouble." 
Defense, Hoene believes, is where the Huskies can be hurt. "Their defense is good," Hoene said. "But only good." 
"Jim Nahragang is a solid defenseman," he continued. "He's experienced and a take-charge player. 
"On the other hand, freshman D-.ul Jensen is inexperienced. He can be outmuscled and harassed. 
Rick Quance will be goal for the Huskies and Hoene said of him, 
"Quance  looked  good  last  
weekend.  
"He's a  big  goaltender  who  

might be susceptible to the low shot. He is very slow in reacting to rebounds and is frequently in trouble because his defense is slow to react in front of the net." 
Smith solved one of his problems-the backup to goalie Mark Kronholm-with the naming of senior Don Smith for the position, but another one has arisen--the availability of tri­captain Ian Williams for the next 
IH hockey 
Rosters of 20 players minimum for Interhall Hockey must be submitted with a $20 entry fee to 
.the lnterhall Office, ACC·C-4, by
>No~. 2 ;~Players. !ll.u.st r~prese~t
•thetr own halls and furmsh their 
~lr~t ~·;~lrn .I h-1~­
'9~tl.~OS, -~,. ana• ~-···· 
Williams is awaiting official confirmation of a four-game suspension from the WCHA as a result of an incident following last year's 4-3 loss to Wisconsin in the playoff finals. The league has not yet notified Notre Dame of its decision. 
The loss of the senior right willg will necessitate shuffling on Smith's part. Brian Walsh, a freshman who plays defense will be used in Williams' place. ' 
Pat Conroy and Eddie Bum­bacco will remain at center and left wing on the line with tri­
the second umt, ~11)' I~raelson and Ray DeLorenzi .hts wmgs. . Smith ha~ been qutte happy wtth the third umt, an all-freshman one. 
"We think they (Alex Pirus centering Clark Hamilton (left wing) and Paul Clarke) are mature enough to step in and do 
the job. . . . 
The Insh will take a fourth hne to. Houghton..Senior Mike T~rdani Will center wtth Jtm Augustme on the left and Tim Byers on th~ rig~t. 
Smith expects to use the hne m spots, with the three players joining Pat Novitzki in penalty-
Ric Shafer===========================:::::======:==============================::::::===========================================~ 


Captain's Corner 
=========================================================================================:=============================::::=:::=:Healing 
The 1973-74 hockey season began last March 9 when NotreDamelost in a wild and highly-disputed game to Wisconsin 4-3. The Badgers then went to Boston, eventually becoming the National Champions. 
Without subscribing to the Vince Lombardi school of thought, "Winning isn't everything, it is the only thing", I must admit I was, we all were, crushed. We had come so close and yet remained a thousand miles away 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
from Boston and the National Championship. We tried desperately to say "You win some, you lose some," for adages make it easier for athletes to endure the beatings their bodies receive. 
We left the rink that dreary night knowing we had given 110 per cent, and when you do that, you are supposed to be able to hold your head high and walk proudly. But it was tough. At best, we could only stumble. 
You see, hockey demands a lot of time and effort. In our case all the time we had pooled collectively was two goals short of our common goal, the National Championship. We wanted as our reward a plaque, bl:'nner, or trophy, anything to signify a National Championship. 
Tbe wound of being defeated, of falling short of our goal, has healea over the summer months as do mostwoundssuffered on the athletic field. The wound may have healed, but a scar remains. This scar is bigger and uglier than one could imagine, and it remains with us as we begin this new season. 
With the same desire to win the National Championship we, the 1973-74 Notre Dame hockey team, promise you, the "Fanatics," an exciting, winning season. 
The defenst.ve duo:> wtll have BtU Nyrop a_nd tn~aptau~ St~ve Curry on the ftrst umt, Novttzkt and Les Larson on the secon~, a~d frehsma~ Jack Brownsc~tld~ wtll be the ftf_th man. Nov~tzkt and Br~wnschtdle .drew praise from Smtth for their pre-season play. 
"Pat did~:t play m';lch .~efense last season, Snuth satd. But he is an 110 per cent competitor. 
"Jack is a steady player with a good fiead on his shoulders. He has good anticipation and good passing 
"We think we're ready for Michigan Tech," Smith concluded. "We.re eager to start playing." Tonight and tomorrow nights (WNDU-AM (1490) will broadcast both games: Friday at ap.m. and Saturday at 7:30 p.m.) the eagerness of the past four weeks 
becomes the reality of the next .19. And although Houghton, Mtch. might not be thebes~ p~ace to start, Notre Dame knows 1t IS one of the places. w~ich fosters national champiOnship dreams. 


3$4.50seatsfor Paul Sitnon. At cost. Call 1814. Please! 
FOR RENT 
Rooms $40 month. Near. 233­
1329. 
All private 3 rooms up for married graduate student. all utilities. Near memorial hospital. No rent in return for aiding parel'ls to help lift lightweight son and daughter to and from wheelchairs. 232­9128. 
NOTICES 
Morrissey Loan Fund can loan up to $150 at 1per cent interest. 1 day waiting period. 
Basement of La Fortune. 11:15 
12:15 Mon. -Fri. 
Term papers, Manuscripts, etc. : will do typing. Call 233· 6909. 
Logan volunteers: regular Saturday rec, then take group to football game. Come at 9 am. 
SKI THE FRENCH ALPS, JAN. 3+JAN. 11. DEPOSIT DEADLINE, SUNDAY NOV. 4. 
FOR INFORMATION, CALL 6716. 
Used books at 50 per cent off list price this week only at pandora's. cliff and monarch notes 2 for .75. now open from 
9:30 to 7 every day except sunday from 9 to 7. pandora's 602 n. st. louis(at sb ave.>' 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost gold man's watch north dining hall monday. Call 8687. 
Lost miniature battery powered TV a tUSC game in senior section. Reward. Call Bill 233·1032. 
Lost SCHOOL BELL and cowbell at pep rally in laundry bag. Reward for schoolbell. Call 1602. 
Lost one student I D 1972-73. If found, please call Tom Men­doza, 287·2581. 
Found 6 mo. old tan -gold German Shepard· no ID, flea collar. Paddy 234·4455. 
PERSONALS 
There's a girl far away in Big 
D. As nice and as sweet as can be, Her birthday is here and we're sorry we fear, 
She's over the hill at twenty. Happy Birthday, Roomie! 
To anonymous admirer who sent the halloween card. I love you . Give a hint! Kevin. 
MKF: Nov. 3 is still a beautiful day. Hope yours is great! KO. 

WANTED 
Paperboy desperately needS 4 Navy tix. Will pay SS and Trib. Call Henry 8851. 
Need 2 GA Navy fix. Call Rick 8921. 
Need 2 4 or 6 GA Navy tix. Call 1815 between noon-one. 
Need 2 Navy adjacent GA tix. 234.7668. 
Need 6 GA Navy tix. Call 232· 6884. 
Need GA Navy tix. Please. Brenda 1322. 
Need 2 GA Navy tix. Pretty Please 3069. 
School house Too 
In the Brewery 


Need Navy tix. Call 3451. 

~ ,,_ ~ 100 Center Complex 
Need 3 Navy tix. Call 3623. I'll
Mishawaka, Ind. 
take anything.
Phone -259-8181




~ t1JJ 
Need 2 Adjacent GA tix. Call John 8898. 
The midwest's most complete 
HELP WANTED 
needlepoint shop 
HELP WANTED at FRANKY'S in Niles. Good pay 
for good work. Call FRANKY'S 683-7474. 
of student ID 

Happy Day Care Center SMC,
HOURS: MONDAY-SATURDAY, 10am-9pm 
daily maintenance. S1.65 hr., 
car necessary, 284·4150.
SUND~V, 12pm-6 m 

PART-TIME EMPLOYME~T 
Graduate student needed for
!m~r Ornlnnial 
part ·lime evening em·
I 

ployment. Experience in supervision helpful but not necessary. Apply Personel 
Dept., Brownson Hall ND. 
lJfanrakr ~nu.ur 
FOR SALE 
1 

"Enjoy a snack or dinner" 
MEERSCHAUM PIPES! Exceptional values per· sonalized service. Catalog.
35 Varieties of Pancakes 
PMP Co. Box 444 Gaither· 
sburg, Md. 20760.
Chicken -Steak -Sandwiches 
Brand-new knee length topcoat 
+ cruShed velvet jacket. Both size 40. Cheap. Call 234-4961. 
U.S. 31 (Dixieway) North Your Host 
Panasonic tape cassette 
recorder never out of box. Received as gift. Call Michelle. 5123. 
(Across from Holiday Inn) Bob Edwards '50 
Fine quality, hand·made 
leather goods. Great gifts and good deals too. Drop by 165 Morrissey or call 3493. 
SAVE THE CHILDREN 


JOIN THE MOD SQUAD 
Fischer skis. 232·2540. 
Reasonable.
Volunteer to help collect for the March of 
Tandenburg 3300X stereo tape deck. Built-in echo and sound·
Dimes before the Navy game. Come to 128 
on.sound. Call 7830. 
O'Shaughnessey between 10 a.m. and 
Panasonic cassette tape deck. Model RS·262US. 1 yr. old. asking SSO. Call AI 1072.
11 a.m. Saturday morning. 
2 Student fix. for Navy. Ken 288·2457 before 10 pm.
THE CHILDREN NEED YOU ~· 
'.' . • /• • • . • . · • · ·· , , , , ~ ,. .. ,·l 
0 0 ,. t 9 t f f I f t f I t \ I • • • • t t ' ".t '·' ·' ·' ·" •' ·' ·' • ' · • ' 
~"·'·'·'·'········ ... 

• 

..-----------------------------------------------­
Friday, November 2, 1973

.' 12 the observer 
--------------------------------------------------~--~-------------------------------------------------, 
Middies visit Irish 
napolis, Bill Elias, fared no better by Vic Dorr in his four cracks at the Irish He 
I: Sports Editor also failed to win against Ara Parseghian 's troops, and his
Tomorrow. for the 47th con­closest effm·t against the Irish wassecutive time, Notre Dame and a 31-7 defeat in 1966.

Nayy will collide in an in­And even Wayne Hardin. thetercollegiate football game.But for 
I: 1\liddie coach who took Roger 
the first time since 1964, the 
I Staubach and Company to aCotton
:\lidshipnwn will be led into the Bowlappearance in 1963, was.c:ame by a coach who has never winless in his only appearancebet>n on the sidelines for a losing against Ara Parsegn1an andt'ffort against the Irish. 
Notre Dame. 
Hick Forzano. the Naval But in first-year coach George\,·ademy's ,·ecently-retired coach, Welsh, the Middies have a man·.1 as winless against Notre Dame. 

Parseghian has never faced and,He tried for four years, but the consequently, a man he has never t iosest he ever came was last defeated.
year's game in Philadelphia--a Ara 's Irish have hum bled three game Notre Dame won, 45-23. 

other first-year coaches during theFonano's predecessor at An-first month and one-half of the 
Vic Dorr::::=:=:=:===:::::::::::::·::::::::::::::::::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:::::=:=:=:::::=:=:=:=:=:::::::=:=:::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
I 

~ j The Irish Eye
I 
l 
I\ 
t ~ 

I , 
The sixth and seventh weeks of the current college football season have 
I probably seemed like a huge domino match to Notre Dame coach Ara Parseghian and his Fighting Irish football team. Last weekend the Irish found themselves in a position to topple the I l defending National Champion USC Trojans, and topple them they did, 23­
14. This week, though, Notre Dame is in much the same position the Trojans were in last weekend. 
I The Irish, unbeaten at 6-o, are standing up as contenders for the 1973 National Championship, and tomorrow they'll entertain Navy, an unranked team which would love the chance to knock down Notre Dame. 
But the Middies have fallen flat in other upset attempts this season, and Nhencoach George Welsh's team enters Notre Dame stadium tomorrow afternoon, they'll have to file beneath a makeshift set of goalposts in the Stadium's north end zone--an eloquent reminder that Parseghian's Irish understand the game of dominoes as well as that of football. 
Navy at Notre Dame: The Middies were riding high two weeks ago after they swamped Air Force, 42-6. But they began taking water last weekend as they lost to Pittsburgh, 22-17. There won't be any calls to "abandon ship" tomorrow--not unless it rain~--but look for the Irish to finish the job nonetheless. Corgan: ND; Fineran: ND. 
Army at Air Force: The Falcons have received rou_gh treatment recently at the hands of their Service Academy siblings. Coach Ben Martin's club will reverse that trend against the Cadets. Corgan: Air Force; Fineran: Air Force. 
Florida at ·Auburn: An intrasectional battle between Florida's Gators and Auburn's Tigers. And there's no way a Gator can outscrap a Tiger­unless the game happens to be in Florida. And this one's not. Corgan: Auburn; Fineran: Auburn. 
TCU at Baylor: 1973's edition of this SWC dogfight might differ from 1972's in one way: a smaller point spread. The result--Baylor on top--will be the same. Corgan: TCU; Fineran: Baylor. 
Colorado at Nebraska: Not this week. The Cornhuskers are too good a team, they're long overdue, and the game's being played in Lincoln. Corgan: Colorado; Nebraska: Fineran: Nebraska. 
Duke at Georgia Tech: A colorful matchup, this game between the Blue Devils and the Yellow Jackets--and a happy one for Tech's 'Jackets. Corgan: Georgia Tech; Fineran: Georgia Tech. 
Florida State at Houston: The Seminoles can score, but Houston's Cougars can score more. And tomorrow in the Astrodome they will. Corgan: Houston; Fineran: Houston. 
Georgia at Tennessee: The Vols will be busy for the rest of the 1973 season--busy trying to atone for their loss to Alabama. Georgia's J ' Bulldogs just happen to be an obstacle along the way--and a small ob­
... 
stacle at that. Corgan: Tennessee; Fineran: Tennessee . 
Ohio State at Illinois: The Buckeye's schedule doesn't get sticky until the final three weeks fo the season. Tomorrow's game, even though it's a road venture, will keep Woody Hayes' boys entrenched in the nation's top :spot foratleastonemoreweek. Corgari: OSU; Fineran: OSU. 
Indiana at Michigan: The Wolvernines' schedules doesn't get sticky until the final three weeks of the season. Tomorrow's game, a home appearance, will keep Bo Schembechler's boys entrenched as the nation's number three team for at least one more week. Corgan: Michigan; Fineran: Michigan. 
Kansas State at Missouri: Coach Al Onofrio's Tigers stumbled and fumbled their way to a loss to Colorado last.. weekend. Rebounding against Kansas State won't be an easy task, but Mizzou will bounce back nonetheless. Corgan: Mizzou; Fineran: Mizzou. 
Minnesota at Northwestern: A matchup between the two teams who were pummelled last weekend by Michigan and Ohio State, respectively. Look for the Golden Gophers to snap back against John Pont's hapless Wildcats. Corgan: Minnesota; Fineran: Minnestora. 
South Carolina at N.C. State: the Gamecocks are over matchP.dfor the second weekend in a row. They tangled with LSU's Tigers last Satur­:iay, and tomorrow it's N.C. State's Wolfpack. USC may keep it close, as they did against LSU, but N.C, State will win. Corgan: N.C. State; 
.~ Fineran: N.C. State. 
I 
' I Purdue at Iowa: To date, there has been nothing funny about Iowa's ;;chedule--a slate which has included Michigan, Penn State, and UCLA. And a game with Prudue, while not exaclty in the "killer" category, won't provide much relief for the embattled Hawkeyes. Corgan: Pur­due; Fineran: Purdue. j Upset of the week: Kentucky over Tulane: The Witdcats have had a I penchant this year for coming up a bit short in nearly every game they've 
played. But tomorrow, against the unbeaten Green Wave, Fran Curci's 
} .. 
( ·cats will come up on the long end. For a change. Corgan: Tulane; \ Fineran: Tulane. Last column: 12-15, season: 49-60; Corgan:12-15; Fineran: 81-15. 
current season, but W~lsh and his 
Midshipmen <currently 3-4) aren't 
making the 700-mile trek from 
Annapolis to South Bend just to 
serve as fall guys for Notre 
Dame's unbeaten, fifth-ranked 
team. They'll be prepared to play 
when the two teams face off on 
Saturday afternoon, and Navy's 
offensive potential. particularly, 
has Parseghian more than a bit 
leery. 
"All of us," said Ara, "the entire 
eampus, the student body, and the 
team. were caught up in the week­
long build-up for the game with 
Southern Cal, and the emotion 
surrounding that game was simply 
feverish. It would be natural, then, 
to expect some let down, but we 
just can't afford that luxury at this 
point in the season. Particularly 
this week, because we'll have our 
hands full preparing for what our 
scouts say is a dangerous Navy 
offense." 
The Middie offense is led by the 
same quartet of players who 
s~ored 23 second-half points 
against the Irish in last year's 
encounter: quarterback Al 
Glenny, tailback Cleveland 
Cooper, wide receiver Larry Van 
Loan, and flankerback Bert 
Calland. 
Glenny, a signal-caller who's 
more than capable through the air, 
has completed 67 of 132 passes this 
year for 852 yards and four touch­
downs. His favorite receivers are 
Van Loan1, who has pulled in 17 
passes for 282 yards, andCalland, 
who has snagged 11 more for 152 
yards. In last year's meeting with 
the Irish, Glenny hit Calland with a 
pair of scoring strikes and 
scampered home from the three 
for a third seven-pointer. 
But there is more to Navy's of­
fense than Glenny's right arm. 
There is also a 5-10, 180 pound 
junior tailback named Cleveland 
Cooper. 
Cooper has rushed for 627 yards in Navy's first seven outings of the '73 eampaign. He has tallied nine of the Middies' 16 touchdowns, and is averaging better than four yards a try. 
"In Cleveland Cooper, quar­terback AI Glenny, and receivers 
Larry Van Loan and Bert Calland, 
Navy has as fine a set of offensive 
tools as we have seen in any team 
since I've been at Notre Dame," 
admitted the Irish coach. 
"This is the type of team that can 
shock us early in the game if we 
aren't mentally alert." 
But it won't be easy for the 
Middies to shock the Notre Dame 
defense. The Irish were ranked 
first in the nation in team "D" 
prior to last week's run-in with 
Southern California, and the high­
powered Trojans scored just two 
touchdowns against ND's fired-up 
defenders. 
The Navy defense, on the other 
hand. will have to contend with a 
Notre Dame offense which is 
averaging 450yards per game, and 
which has scored 113 points in its 
last three outings. Three members 
of Notre Dame's offensive team-­
quarterback Tom Clements, 
running back Eric Penick, and 
guard Frank Pomarico--were 
named to Navy's All-Opponent 
team after last year's affair in 
Philadelphia, and Welsh must 
defend against that trio this year. 
He must also defend against split 
end Pete Demmerle, tight end 
Dave Casper, and running back 
Gary Diminick, who last year 
scored twice against the Middies. 
One of Diminick's tallies came on 
an 84-yard return of the game's 
opening kickoff. 
"It's quite obvious how good they 
are," observed Navy coach Welsh. 
"Again we'll be playing one of the 
five best teams in the country." 
Navy has not fared badly this 
year in other encounters with 
"top" teams. The Mids were 
beaten soundly by Penn State, but then fought Michigan to the wire Welsh has been working to before losing 14-Q. correct these mistakes all week 

They trounced Air Force 42-6 during his game preparationthree weeks ago, and last week practices, and Parsegh1an has were shaded by Pittsburgh, 22-17, been working just as hard to avoid 
after trailing at half, 16-Q. a post-USC let down. 
"We played good football in And tomorrow at 1:30 p.m., when spots during the Pitt game," said the two coaches square off for Welsh, "and it may , in fact, have the first time, they'll be putting been our best football of the year at 
more than their preventative times. But we still made mistakes, 
strategies on the line. They'll also and that's what kept us off the 
be risking their unbeaten records scoreboard in the first half." against each other. 



Captain's Corner 

Notre Dame 23, USC 14. Oh, how sweet it is. Last Saturday's victory was a tremendous accomplishment ior every member of the Notre Dame family. However, it is over, unfortunately, and another team stands ready to knock us off the top of the national charts. It is time to come down from Cloud Nine and get ready for Navy. 
This week's issue will be concerned with the offensive line, and the personality, skill, and determination it takes to play these positions. The personality of a Notre Dame offensive lineman is a mixture of in­telligence and a positive feeling towards people. These traiits combine to make these linemen well-rounded individuals. They usually have a good grasp on their lives, knowing what they want out of football and college. As for their abilities, they are usually not the best athletes on the field. However, they strive hard to perfect their skills of pulling, blocking, and becoming assignment-competent. 
This determination to become a perfectionist is shown in their undying quest to attain freedom for the backs. Their determination continues year-round. In the off-season, they run through their own programs to prepare themselves for the upcoming season. 
Through their work, they develop a sense of pride and leadership that rubs off on the rest of the team. This year is no exception. Not since 1968, with players like Poskon, Reilly, Kunz, DiNardo, McKinley, and Oriard, have the Irish had as talented an offensive line as this year's. 
At this point, I would like to introduce this) <!ar's Notre Dame offensive line. Team captain tight-end Dave Casper's athletic ability will match anyone's in the world. His intelligence makes it equivalent to ahving a coach right there in the huddle with you. As for his leadership, his mere presence on the field is a shot in the arm for the entire team. When the first game came around, many people said, "Demmerle who?" He wasted no time in showing everyone how good he really is. He is a highly motivated person. Pete is no Bob Hayes, but his intelligence and good moves make up for his lack of speed. 
At tackle, Steve Sylvester has grown into a very solid preformer. He is a hard worker, always thinking and giving the second effort. Steve has good leadership qualities and a great football mind. His counterpart at left tackle is Steve Neece. Steve plays next to me, and you won't meet a tougher guy: His desire and drive equals that of anyone on the team. He has overcome two serious injuries to become one of the best head-on blockers in the country. Off the field, Steve is a quiet guy, well-liked by everyone. He is a serious student who hopes to find a job in the business world. 
At center, Mark Brenneman, who has worked off a very serious back injury, has been a pleasant surprise for Ara and the whole offensive unit. His strength, poise, and range have made him a tremendous asset to the offense. Mark is a very polite, easy to get along with person off the field. He has a good sen~e of humor and likes girls. Mr. Brenneman is pleasant to talk to and should do well in whatever career he decides on. 
Lastly, we have Gerry DiNardo (probably the most colorful person on the offensive line.) Gerry is a hard person to figure out, but whatever his act is it's a good one, especially on the field. Mter a year's experience, Gerry has matured into a very impressive guard and should rank high on everyone's sheet both this season and enxt. Off the field, Gerry likes to experience as much of life as he can. With his outstanding humor, he is easy to get along with. Gerry's future plans are to graduate and continue on to grad school. One way or the other, Gerry DiNardo will excel in whatever he does. 
It has been my pleasure to be associated with this year's group. They are all fun to work with. This Saturday should prove to be just as much fun as we tangle with the Navy's midshipmen. 
Go Irish, Beat Navy! 












