On The Inside 
Student Union gets new head ... page 2 Alumni Association: An Insight ... page S 

serving the notre dame -st. mary's community Wednesday, March 7, 1973
Vol. VII No. 95 
Large crowd fills Library Auditorium 
Bayh talks on freedom erosion 

by Leo Bucchignani 
Staff Reporter 
Speaking to a large crowd at the Library Auditorium last nite.St-nator Birch Bayh claimed that "Americans an' not awarP of the significance of the slow erosion of 
thPir individual rights." · 
Indiana ·s .iumorseantor continued "Through our own 'olition. to mPPI changing circumstances, we will ,-oluntaril~· givP up our own freedom. election by !'IPction. intPrpretation by interpretation. and law by law." 
Gradual loss of freedom 
Bavh fplt tlwre arP those who wish to give up in­diYi(fual rights sucll. as trial by jury. freedom of press. and dueprocess of law to'ederal control in order to achien' safpl\·. l'fficiency. and order. 
Although lw dnPs not foresee the advent of a right­wing junta. a left-wing revolution. or a military coup in llw l' .S .. Ba,·h dol'S see a continuing trend toward gradual Joss ·of fn•Pdom. 
!'iting siwcific infringemPnts of civil rights. Bayh nwntiorwd ti1P '"no-knock" " entry law. £'lpctronic ~un·pillam·p of th(' common man by fedPral govern­nwnt. and continuing attacks on the press 
))pspitP his fePiing that many of the l!1diana m'\\'spap('rs are against him. he supported their nght to sav what ~· pleased about him and any other governm('nt official. Quoting Harry Truman. Bayh ~uggPsiPd that the man who can't take heat from the prPss "should get out of the kitchen." rather than try to ~tifle thP mNiir~ 
Furl lwrmore. Bayh stronly opposed government enforcemPnl of its version of fair coverage on the mPdia. lie pointed out that increasing centro) of. the FPderal Communications Commission over statiOns and rear of reprisal by the government for unfavorable reporting could seal the lips of many newsmen. 
Integrity of court system 
The integrity of the court system, expecially the Supreme Court. was Bayh's next topic. The Indiana Senator stated that he saw no immediate danger of collapse or the court system and its standards; but he rlid \\'arn against a slow move toward decreasing in­dicidual freedom due to court decisions by justices of l<'sser quality. 

Bayh: "Americans are nnt aware of the significance of the slow erosion of their individual rights." 
B<Jvh claimed this as the reason he fought the 
nom(nations of G. Harold Carswell ar;d Clement 
\laynsworth to the Supreme Court. He felt that Car­
swPII show<'d "clear racism" and handed down 
"nwdiocre decisions." According to Bay h. Hayn­
"Wort h was even more mediocre. And although Justice 
"William H. Rrhnquist was sharp, articulate, and 
hrilliand. Bayh questioned his record on civil rights 
and segregation. 
Heturning to his theme of gradual loss of rights, 
Ha~·h asserted that some people will say, "It can't 
happen here." "But as the old professor said in pre­
war Germany. "When they came after the Jews. I 
didn't object because I wasn't a Jew. When they came 
after the Catholics and trade unionists, I didn't object 
because I wasn't a Catholic or a trade unionist. Then 
11·hen thev came after me. there was no one left to 
object.'.' · 
Questioned on abortion 
Bayh then opened the floor to questions, and quickly 
received three on the issue of abortion and the Human Life Amendment proposal to prevent it. He was un­deci~ed on the question, not having resolved the l'O~f!Jct of the child's right to life, the mother's right to pnvacy,and the federal right to regulate abortion. He tentatively favored allowing each state to decide on the (tuestion ~eperately, but mentioned that the Supreme ( ourt decisiOn had refused states that right of decision 
a)r('ady. 
Congress losing power 
Bayh fielded one question on the recent losses of Congressional power to the executive. The Presidents' recently established power to wage war \\'ithout Congressional consent and the new executive procedure of refusing to spend funds appropriated by Congress mark the points of conflict between the executive and the legislature, Bayh stated. 
He felt that Congress will go as far as they feel necessary in order to regain their loss, because "if we lose the power of the purse, we might as well pack up and go home." Furthermore, he strongly opposed the "clear violation of the Constitution" the executive makes when it circumnavigates the Senate's treaty-making power with executive agreements. · 
Dollar devaluation 
l\loving to a discussion of dollar devaluation, he agreed with the first devaluation, which was "necessary by pressures" from foreign currencies. The second devaluation wouldhavebeen unecessary , Bayh asserted. if we had taken measures against unfair trade practices by foreign countries. "If they \ron 't give us a fair break in their country, we won't give them a fair break in ours," Bayh summarized as the solution to the problem 
Aid to North Vietnam 
Bayh had not established a position on the question of aid to North Vietnam. He saw the need for aid to Hanoi as an aid to peacekeeping and stability, but felt that cult ing back funds for US needs to fulfill North Vietnamese needs was very poor. 
r<:nding on the potentially volatile issue of amnesty. Bayh rejected amnesty as long as prisoners and soldiers are still active. But after the war is over, lw felt that alternative service, such as the P('aceCorps \\'ould be better than jail terms or refusual to readmit draft-dodgers to the U.S. 
Replaces John Abowd 
Lutkus is new Observer editor 
Jerry Lutkus.. junior American 
Studies major. assumes duties as 
Pditor·in-chief of The Observer 
after spring break, ending the one 
year term of current editor-in­
l'htej. John Ahowd. 
Abowd. senior Economics major, 
steps down with this issue.... his 
127th since assuming the ,position 
March :l. 1972. Leaving with him are Don Ruane. executive editor since Ahowd took over. and associate editors Ed Ellis and Bob Higgins. 
Also departing is Jim Donaldson \\'ho has served as sports editor since spring of \971. 
Lutkus has been with TllC' Obsen•er since \970. serving principallyas a night editor. news editor and editorial page Pditor. Lutkus announced several administrative changes. Assuming the duties as Executive editors will be Dan Barrett and Art 1-'erranti. Barrett has been a 
night editor and most recently, 
special projects editor for the 
paper. Ferranti moves from his 
position as head of sub­~criptions. Under Abowd the 
campus daily newspaper scored a 

Lutkus: new Observer editor-in­chief. 
number of firsts. A twenty page issue. the first since The Observer became a daily publication, was published Mav 4, 1972. This i.i nParly three ·times the .oannal Jpngth of the paper. Two more twenty page issues followed this al'adcmft' vear. 
i\bf'wd introduced two-color issues last sem('ster and published 111(' first full-color Observer front page for the 1972 Christman rdition. He pioneered the first and subsequent Special Supplements to the Observer. Special Sup­plements have been published on coeduca lion. I he future of St. Mary's and facultv unionization. 
Signed editoriaf opinion was instituted by Abowd during his term as editor-in-chief. and the syndicated cartoon "Doonesbury" was secured while he was editor. Abowd also negotiated a new printer for the paper and cut publishing costs substantially. For the first time. under Ahowd. The Observer was able to eooperate with T111• Scholastic in the produ~tion of•tlw Course Evaluation Booklet. 
The University also solicited the 
aid of The Obsen•er for the first 
time in publishing the most recent 
Course Schedule Booklet. 
.\howd, Ellis. Ruane. Higgins ami Ilona Idson have accumulated m·pr a deradP and a half of service 11·ith tlw paper since ·1969. Four ll('gan as reproters in their fresh­lll\'11 yPar while Donaldson began ('O\'Pring tlw ND sports scene the managing editor before he became exPeuli\'{' Pditor last ~·ear. Ellis is a past news editor and Higgins has served as The Obsen·er's wire l'ditor. 

Donaldson has spent his time all in the sports department taking ·o\'er as editor from TPJTV Shields 
as a sophomore. Donaidson has ~'rohabl_v put more \\'ords in print than anv Obsen•er \\'filer. 
BaJTPit. ~\'ho began work with The 0/Jser\'eron Ihe night staff and F{'rranti. who began writing news 
1i111d f(•atun•s. \\'ill sit on the new Ohs<•r-,.er editorial board. .Joining thrm \\'ill be Joe Abell. managing editor: Anthony Abowd. n('\\'s editor: Butch Ward. new editorial editor: Maria Gallagher. Sl\1C Editor: Beth Hall. features editor: Vic Dorr, sports editor: and Tom Drape. wire editor. 


Today's Observer will be the last issue before Spring break. The Observer will continue publication on Tuesday, March 20. 
IDIDIIIIIIIIIIIIOID11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111101111111111111111111011111111111111 
, 
, 
l 
1 
I 
! 
~ 

briefs 
(c) 1973 New York TimP.s 
Khartoum--President Gaafar AI-Nimeiry of the Sudan Tuesday accused the head of the Khartoum Office of AI Fatah, the Palestinian Commando organization, of having been the key planner of the attack by Black September terrorists on the Saudi Arabian Embassy in which three Western diplomats were slain. 
. Saigon--A Canadian source reported that the South Viet­
namese authorities have in many cases reiused to guarantee the 
safety of Viet Cong who want to come in fro.m Communist base 
areas to become delegates to the Joint Military Commission . 
This was one more major obstacle, t!~ source said, to the 
smooth working of the Vietnam case-pre agreement. 
Washington--The Nixon Administration, in a surprise move, imposed mandatory price controls on 23 of the country's biggest oil companies. Crude oil, gasolitJe, heating oil and other refinery products are affected. Wielding the much-discussed "slick in the closet" for the first time since Phase 3 of the Wage­Price Stabilization Program began Jan. 11, the Cost of Living . Council set a I per cent limit on the average increase in prices lh<' oil companies seek without going to the Government. 
Washington--The Senate, with its leadership in firm control, r<'jected a proposal that would have made most critical com­mitt<'e meetings open to the public. The action placed the S<'na te in direct contrast with the House of Representatives, where reform forces appear to have the votes to place a sharp limitation on secrecy in committees. 
Los Angeles--Samuel A. Adams, a Central Intelligence
, Agency analyst. testified at the Pentagon Papers trial in Los Angeles that he had attended conferences in Saigon, Hawaii and th<' \.I.A. at which the military purposely downgraded Pstimates of Communist strength in Vietnam. He said that there were "political pressures in the military to display the enemy as wPaker than he actually was." 
New York--Pearl S.Buck.the author of more than 85 books and winner of the Nobel and Pulitzer Prizes in Literature, died after a long illness at her home in Danby, Vt. at the age of 80. 
an campus taday 
wed., march 7 
12: 15 pm .. seminar. "prcblems in animal decon­
aminarion" by dr. d. van deer waaig, room 102, lobund lab, galvin, refreshments before seminar 
4: 30.. Iecture "organic chemical communication and rela ed chemical inreracrions in nature" by prof. jerrold meinwald, room 123, nieuwland 
6:30 pm.. meeting, sailing club, room 204, eng. bdlg. 
7:30 
pm..aaup meeting, smc clubhouse 

7:30 
pm-lecture and slide\ show, "women and art" 


by celia marrio1 , ar1 insr. of chicago, fieldhouse, north west qallery 
8:15 pm .. concerti classical guitar, by greory bonen rager, lib. audt. 
8:15: concert. by parrick maloney, esc, and william cerny, p:anist "die schoeene muellerin", lib. audt. free, 
9:00pm--charisma ric prayer meeting, holy cross hall, in roduc ion o charismatic reenewal, Bpm butler bdlg. 
10:00 pm..community ash wed. mass, fr. ned .reidy, regina hall, smc 
march 8, thursday 
4:00pm-seminar, "radiaiion effects in catalysts" "Y prof. g. c. kuszynski, conference room, radiati,ln research bldg. 
7:30 
pm--lecture "futur~ of women in managemen1 I" by emil reznik, Stapleton lounge, le mans hall, smc 

7:30 
pm.. lecture· india '73 leecture•-''Women in India""' 


by dr. meean Khorana carroll ha II, made .le va, smc 
9:00 pm.. Jecture "he arr of john coltrane " by rev. 
george !wiskirchen, esc, Iafortune, free
r 
friday, march9 
4:30pm ..colloquium "a generaliza ion of the classical poisson in egral'', by prof. kiyosato okamoto, U. of ch1cago and U. of hiroshima, room 2::!6, math bldg. 
4:30pm --lecture' "organic chemical communication 
and rei a ed chemical in ·eracrions in nature.'' by prof 
jerold meinwald, room 123 nieuland 
~: 00 pm..duplicate bridge, university club, public in­
vied 


at nd-•mc: 
by Joseph Abell Student Union started this year." 
different ('ommissions.

Managing Editor "This year's programs were 
"This year. when Social COM-In a precedent-setting 1mo~e. the best on record as far as I can 1\IISSION STOPPED DOINGStudent Union Director JimSchneid see." he said. "I think the biggest THINGS. Academic Commissionannounced the appointment of thing I could do is continue and would take over and then the CACAssistant SociaiC'ommissionerJim improve on them." 

!Cultural Arts Commision) M-ouldH.ybarczck as his successor, to And the best way to do this, he take it. I'd like to see more of this take effect April l. said. was to "get the students next vear." he said.

"This is the first time we've done involved" in Student Union Ac­lie ~lso saw a need to broadent he actual appointing," Schneid tivities. 
Student Services. especially

said, explaining that the normal "There's going to be a large registration of movies across bothprocedure called for the incumbent 1urnover in this vear's Notre Dame and St. Mary'sdirector to recommend a can-graduation." "I'll be needing a Jot ('ampuses. and setting up off­dictate and the student body of new people. and I'll be ('ampus-oriented activities.
president would appoint the especially interested in new blood. 
"Nothing is definite yet," he

director. "A lot of kids see things like the said. "I want to look at all theSchneid went on to say that with free movies and free concerts possibilities."
the help of Dr. Robert Ackerman, we've been doing lately, and have lie invited anyone applying forassistant to the vice-president for been saying how great it is," he 
the various commissioners'

student affairs, he and Student continued. "I hope that they'll see positions to come up to the Student Body President Bob Kersten . what we will do next war and will Union offices.
reached an agreement for him to want to help us do it'." 
"Even if someone just has anchoose his own successor. As one of his more imjlortant idea they'd like to see done isHe also expresseed the hope jobs next year, Rybarczck saw a welcome," he added.

that the constitutional committee need for a balance between the 

~I~E~~~~h:~i~:~;~r~:o~~e~!~~ r~~;<~c~;;;;~~,~··~-;~~;;~~<~1-: 
vears. I · Schneid described the selection ~~ • 
of H.ybarczck as the result of an " ...The greatest dancer in life, to me anyway." i election and a series of interviews. .... -Charles Minqus Jazz Composer ~ "All the commissioners voted ~ S and when the vote came to a tie,. '-·' ~ we based the final decision on ~-Tuesday March 20 O'Laughlin Aud. ~~ :~tersv;~d~s with the two people," 8 pm ~~~!~it~n $~~ ~0 ~
0

Schneid praised the cho1'ce of "'' 
1··.' Reservations: 284-4176 ~~ 
H.ybarczck, describing him as 5! 
.
"v_~:Je ~~~~:·what's going on in the 

Perfo=a:M~~~>~>a··-· : 
different commissions," Schneid said. "It was primarily his work I 
Annual IUSB International
that pulled off Homecoming and Mardi Gras. "I don't like the idea of a theoritician in a position like this," 


Folklife Festival 
he continued, "and that's what I like about Jim: he's a pusher--he 

Northside Hall knows how to work and get people 
Indiana University at So. Bend to work with him." 
1825 N.Side Blvd. So. Bend H.ybarczck expressed en-
March 16-17-18 thusiasm at his appointment, and his hopes to "improve what 
Folk Music Concerts Adults $2.00 Stud. $1.00 Fri.. M. 16 8:15pm-Sat. M. 17 8:15pm
'The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the 

Free Folkmusic and Dance Workshop Sat. & Sun. 1:00pm
University of Notre Dame and St. 

(;uitar-Banjo-Dulcimer-Am. & Europ. Folk Dance
Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per 
•semester ($14 per year) from The 

Free Craft Fair-Sat. & Sun. 1:00-5:00 pm Observer. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class 
Fre<' Childrens' Concert Sun. 2:00 om
postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. A6556. 





THE EN 
IS NEA 

Our mid-winter savings event .is nearing the end but there are still many exciting values ... for instance: 
CORD FLARES from a famous maker, $12 value $6.90 
in new colors
SLEEVELESS SWEATERS & patterns $6.90 
in a wide choice of
KNIT BODY SHIRTS OFF
styles & colors 
ETC., ETC., Stop in, look over the remaining values SAVE 

Pay Next Summer ... 
Wear and enjoy your apparel now, pay one third in June, one third in July, and one third in August with no service or carrying charqe. ON THE CAMPUS ... NOTRE D <\ME 


1

'I 1 I I I I I I a I I • • \'I I I\ • • -. • • 
• 0 •••••••••• 0. 0 ............. . 


Campus roundup 

Lecture on women in art 
Women in Art is the subject matter this evening for Celia Marriott. Staff Lecturer of the Art Institute of Chicago at 7:30 at ISIS. 
Marriott's talk will discuss the contrast of the woman's role as model in the painting of the nineteenth and twentieth centuries \\'ith the work of women artists. 
Hypothetical questions per­taining to the lecture include the use nf the male nude, the prominence. of . ~omen 
looking at art and thmr ab­seencee in making it and the speculative case of one of the 
sen·ce acknowledged masters past being a woman. 
Marriot I. has directed a 20­minute color film produced by the· Art Institute of Chicago 
called "Eleven American Sculptures" which is now in educational distribution. 
She has written scripts and .assembled visual materials for films "The Eighteenth Century in Italy and America," "Rembrandt." and "The Middle· Ages." Also. she has published articles in The· Chicago WFMT Guide and The Instructor and has appeared on radio and television promoting special 
<'xhihitions  at  the  Art  In­ 
stitute.  
ISIS  gallery  is  located  at  the  

Northwest corner of the old field 
house. 
Jazz discussion 
"Th<' Art of .John Coltrane" is the subject for discussion this Thur­sdav at "Jazz at Nine" in the l''iesta Lounge of the Student Cent<'r. 
Tlw influence and impact of John t'oltrarw is considered evident five \'<'ars after his death in the current clirect ions of jazz. Coltrane is known in jazz circles as one of the greatest saxophonists in the history of jazz. but his influence in the conception and practice of modern jazz is considered great. Thursday's discussion by Fr. (;l'orge Wiskirchen. Director of the Notre Dame .Jazz Band, will focus on the far-reaching impact of Coltrane with rmphasis on three major works: "A Love Supreme," "Ascension" and "Expression." 
"It is hard to describe to the unitiated the beauty of John Coltrane both personally and musicall~·. One has to experience the opPnness. intimacy, emotional depth and drive of his music..a music of the most personal and involving sort". remarked Father Wiskirchen. 
Tlwre is no admission charge for the discussions in this series. 
Plan conference on universities 
The Anwrican Subcommission for the History of Universities will nwet April 16:17 at the University of Notre Dame as part of a con­fl'rl'ncl' on Mediaeval and Henaissance universities spon­
sored by the University's :\kdiaeval Institute. Chairman of the conference is 

AAUP investigating rights in 
Lewis Hall type 
bv R. Thomas Thues . Staff Reporter 
Tlw Lewis Hall incident of last month is still the source of some controversy on campus. 
The decision of the ad­ministration has been received with shades of student and faculty speculation in the past few months. It seem;; that many governing options may have been left un­tested hv the administration and the Anierican Association of 
llniversitv  Professors  tAAUPl  
has show1;  interest  in  these  un­ 
tt>sted options.  

Associate Professor Edward !\Ianier is presently heading the the Institute's director. Prof. A.L. Gabriel. a U. S. representative to th<' International Commission for the History of Universities within the International Congress of Historical Sciences. Gabriel will also deliver an illustrated address on iconography of Mediaeval universities during the conference. 
The program will include an exhibit of incunabula and rare hooks on Mediaeval and Henaissance universities as well as reports and lectures on aspects of Mediaeval education by J. Barrv Weber. Notre Dame 1\'ledi.aeval Institute; James K. 1\ll'Conica. University of Toronto Pontifical Institute and Center for 1\l<'diaeval Studies; Prof. Pearl Kibre. City University of New York: Prof. Leslie S. Domonkos, Youngstown State University, and Prof. Karl Bosl, University of Munich. 
Black Culture 
Week planned 
Black Studies and the Society of 

\.ljamaa in conjunction with other 
organizations will sponsor a Black 
Cultural Week April 9-15. 
A tentative schedule that has 

been drafted consists of speakers, 
movies. drama and dance groups 
as well as musical entertainment. 
Some of the speakers that are being considered are: Jesse .Jackson. director of Operation P.U.S.H; Charlene Mitchell. nwmher of the Political Prisoner Committee to free Angela Davis ;md All Political Prisoners; Sonia Sanchez. Poetess; Ralph Aber­nath~·. director of S.C.L.C.; Claude Lightfoot. author of Racism and Human Survival: Lessons from Nazi Germany. 
Booths may be set up by any group interested in participating during the week. 
The Black Cultural Week is attempting to expose the Notre Dame community to the historical participation of blacks in America and throughout the world. This task was undertaken in order to narrow the differences between other ethnic groups on campus. 
The Cultural Week is open to anyone who would like to par­ticipate. Interested people should contact either Granville Cleveland at 1064 or Mike Nickerson at 1154. 
Name speakers lor Lit Festival 
Two Pulitzer Prize winners, pla~·wright Arthur Miller and poet Gwmdolvn Brooks. will head the list of Pstablished and promising authors appearing at the annual Sophomore Literary Festival of the llniversitv of Notre Dame April I through 6. 
Others scheduled to appear at the WP<'k-long session of public talks and elassroom discussions inelude novelist Chaim Potok, ~hort story writer Stanley Elkin and poet-translator Jerome Hothenberg. Each participant will appear in two formal presen­tations. a personal reading and a IPcture. 
AA\IP investigation of student rights in incidents like Lewis Hall. The eommittee wor,khas been split hei\H•en Manier. Mrs. Maureen (;Jt>ason. head of Humanities DPpartment of the Memorial Librarv. and Associate Professor Albert· 1\1 iller. All committee nwml)('rs are members of the facultv senate. 
The. investigation is not a rPhParing of the expelled graduate student case of Lewis Hall. Manier eomn1<'nted that a separate !waring would have to be held if his committee findings were la\'orable. The investigation is ainwd at determining whether 
A Pulitzer winner for his play, DC'ath of a Salesman, Miller is also the author of The Crucible, After 
thC'  Fall.  The  Price, and A  View  
from  the Bridge.  
Miss  Brooks  is  the first  Afro­ 

Am<'rican to win a Pulitzer Prize. She received the 1950 award for her collection of poems, Annie Allen. Acclaimed as the successorofCarl Sandburg as Illinois poet laureate, she is also the author of Aloneness, Riot. and The Tiger Who Wore WhitC' Gloves or What You Really ArC' You Are. 
The appearance of Rothenberg, well known for his translations of American Indian poetry, will be the first speaking appearance of a translator in the eight-year history of the Festival. Some of his popular works include Shaking the Pumpkin and Traditional Poetry of Indian North American. Among his original works are Poems for thC' Game of Silence. 1960-70. 
The author of Bad Man, The Dick Gibson Show and Criers and Kibitzers. Kibitzers and Criers, Elkin is a professor at Washington University, St. Louis. 
Potok holds a doctorate in rabbinical studies and is the author of a eurrent best seller, My Name is Asher Lev. He is also the author of The Promise and The Chosen. 
The 1973 Literary Festival is directed by Frank J. Barrett, a sophomore from Westlake, Ohio. 
Maloney plays Schubert piece 
HPv. Patrick Maloney, C.S.C., tenor and associate professor music at the University of Notre DamP. will perform Franz Sehubert 's "Die Schoene l\luellerin'' !The Miller's Daughterl at 8:15 p.m.. today in the Library Auditorium on the eampus. He will be accompanied on the piano by William Cerny, nPwly appointed chairman of the Notre Dame Music Department. 
HPv. Maloney is a Notre Dame alumnus who received his graduate degree from the Catholic \lniversity in Washington, D.C. He also studied at Northwestern and at the Academy of the West in Santa Barbara. Calif.. where he was a pupil of Lotte Lehmann. In 1!15ti he joined the music faculty, and in addition to being director of the Notre Dame mixed chorus, he has been solo recitalist with en­semble and oratorio groups in the 1\lichiana area. He has appeared in eoncerts in Chicago, Portland, Oregon and Houston and with the Aspen Music Festival Choir. 
Cer·ny. a native of New York City. received bachelor of arts, bachelor of music and master of music degrees from Yale llniversity Music School in New lla\'('n, Conn.. and worked ex­tl•nsively as a professional ac­companist in New York City. From Hl59-72 he was associate profpssor of music at Eastman School of Music in Rochester, 
N.Y.. and joined the Notre Dame faculty as professor and chairman of music in September of 1972. 
Tlw concert is free and open to tlw public. 

incident 
\ lniversity proceedures comply \rith the Ai\\lP and National Studt>nts Association (USNSAl guide lines for student rights. 
ThC' Rights and Freedoms of Stlld<'nts will be the major rl'ferenl'e document inthe com­mittPe's report. This AAUP­{1SNSA document has been used as a major guide line for students rights since .June. 1967. 
Professor Manier expects the committee work to be complete by the Pnd of spring break. He hopes !hat the AAUP's concern for student affairs is a step toward nffairs better faculty-student 
relations. · 

Your average reading speed probably ranges between 150 and 300 words per minute. Graduates of the Reading Dynamics course read and study at l~st 3 to 6 times faster then that. And the average graduate of our course actually improves com­
prehension over 10 per cent. 
Thousands of college students are Reading Dynamics graduates, including over 1,000 at Notre Dame, Indiana Universtiy, and Purdue. This is the same basic course that first received national recogniton when President John F. Kennedy invited Evelyn Wood to the White House to teach her system to top level staff personnel. Recently, 
President Nixon's staff took the Reading Dynamics Course. The best way to find out about the remarkable Reading Dynamics course is to come to a free MINI-Lesson. At this you'll~earn what it's like to be 
able tc. read and study 3 to 6 times faster. You Will see c. short, enjoyable movie and have all your questions answered. 
ATTEND 
A Free Speed Reading Lesson 
Increase your reading speed 
50 to 100% on the spot. 
Last Two Days 
TODAY &TOMMORROW 
6 and 8 pm 
Seminar Rm. 202 
CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION 
NOTRE DAME AVENUE 
EVELYN WOOD READING DYNAMICS 

ACTION volunteers to get credits 
by Pattie Coone,.v as VISTA volunteers tor one year Besides that, the experience of vear with training beginning May as well as totally rounding out their Staff Reporter under the program\ being paid working in an unfamiliar en­·15. and work in the field beginning involvement with the University regular allowances and stipends of vironment will be beneficial and June I. YPar for ACTION Program." Dr. Richard T. Bohan, director VISTA volunteers. The educational," commented Bohan. Students are responsible for For further information of tht• University Year for ACTION volunteers would also be enrolled Students who apply must be providing their room and board in students should contact Bohan, 334 the community from the $160 per
Program at St. Mary's College as St. Mary's students and receive juniors or seniors next year. SomP Madeleva. 284-4707 or 291-4612. announced that March 29 is the last :JO to 36 hours of credit, some of it knowledge of Spanish is desirable, month sustenancepayments. The date for prelimin~ry applications toward the major concentration in but the amount needed depends on agencies involved and the college 
Securitymeasure
for the program to be filed in bifl certain departments. the exact position the student is will aid the students in finding office. The deyartments participating given. lodgings. Since a number of All outside hall doors will be 
students will be living together,
Tht> University Year -for AC­in the pr0$:am are Sociology, Bohan also indicated the locked and the dining halls closed TION is a proj!J'«ln .of the Psychology, Political Science and possibility that students from other room and board should present no during Spring Break, according to problems. according to Bohan.
Education Office of the ACTION Education. ..In addition." said colleges might be eligible for the Office of the Dean of Students. Agency . 'Yorking:in connection Bohan, "I have ~ed other partipation in the program. Students on academic Special locks will be placed on with and through the established Departmentsif students cot&ld work However. no more than five non-St. scholarships are eligible to par­one outside door in each dorm and agencies in the Spanish speaking on the independent study cour!?es Marv's students will be able to ticipate in the UYA program. students remaining in the dorm eommunity of South Bend and in their departments, the English, participate and St. Mary's Those on financial aid are en­diJring break can obtain k'ys by Northern indiana. Philosophy, Speech and Drama students will be considered first. eouraged to participate. pctying a rive-dollar deposit to the 
The college is prK>viding departments have all indicated One of the most important The areas in which students will haII rector. volunteers to serve in the &reas of their willingness to make three or aspects of the program is the fact he placed are research, com­The dining halls close after education. community develop­more credits available." that the students will be living munication. education and supper this Friday and open for the mPnt. research and com­As far as the students are con­among the people they work with. eounselling. Pvening meal Sunday, March 18. munications, and counselling to eerned. being volunteers gives thus having the projects identified Bohan stated yesterday, "We The South Dining Hall's Pay the eommunity and the migf'!tory them the opportunity to put their with the community rather than feel that living in the community Cafeteria and the Huddle remain agricultural workers. Pducation into practice and get out outsiders. will be a central part of the open according to hours posted 
St. Mary's students would serve 11f the classroom environment. The program will run a full-year £'ducational benefit to the students, there. 


. , 
.,"' .·
. 
.... •; ·., 
''· 
WITH TWAYOU GET EUROPE FOR ALMOST NOTHING, NEXT TO NOTHING, ANDABSOLUTELY NOTHING. 


ABOUT$50. 
This spring recess TWA has great, on double occupancy) Continental break­inexpensive city packages in London, Paris, fast, taxes and service charges. Plus 4 Rome, Athens and Amsterdam. For example, theatre tickets, admission to 6 discotheques, for $50 plus airfare you get 7 days in London, sightseeing, and more. Go before March 31 including a room with private bath, (based when prices go up. 

$4.30 A NIGHT . 
Only TWA gives you Stutelpass.* It's a $4.30 a night, no reservations needed. Plus 
coupon booklet that gets you a room and tickets good for meals and concerts and 
Continental breakfast in a guesthouse or lots of things. 
student hotel in any of 52 cities for only 


FREE. 

When you land in London, Paris, Rome, 50% off, as well as absolutely free things. Madrid, Amsterdam or Frankfurt,just turn Here, for example, are some of the absolutely in your boarding pass at the TWA city ticket free things in London and Paris. (Deals for office within 24 hours of your arrival and the other cities will be available starting you'll get a brochure full of discounts up to March 15.) 
LONDON. PARIS. 
Free admission to any ten Free 2 hours of motorcycle rental Greyhound Racing 'fracks 
Free latest-fad gift from Free admission and drink at Aux Eschelles de Saint Denis La Valbonne, one of London's most 
Free silk tote bag from La Gaminerie terrific clubs Free drink at HippopotamusFree breakfast at your choice of 
10 Quality Inns Free pint ofWatney's Red Barrel in your choice of over 40 London pubs 
For more information see your Campus Rep or call TWA. 
WITH TWA IT PAYS TO BE YOUNG. 
':'Stutelpass is a service mark owned exclusively by TWA. 
.J• 


Telling the Notre Dame story 

by Ed Ellis Associate Editor 
An unusual map of continental United States hangs on the wall of Mike Jordan's office in the Notre Dame Administration Building. The map is curious because it is decorated with !l red pins, 29 yellow pins. and 119 black pins. arranged to cluster in the 1wighborhood of Chicago and again the the area near New York City. 
Mike Jordan is the Assistant Director of the Notre Dame Alumni Association, and the 157 colored pins represent !\otre Dame Alumni dubs across the country. Large concPntration of Notre Dame alums occur in thel\lid-West and along the Northeast coast, although almost every part of the United States has a club, from Miami to!<:l Pasoto Spn Diego. and from Seattle to Lewiston. Maine. 
According to Jim Cooney, Executive D1·ector of the Alumni Association. Notre Dame runs the only extremP-ly successful dub-oriented alumni organization in the country. most other universities having abandoned the dub system for other means of post-graduate communication. Cooney also notes that Notre Dame is consistently among the top three schools in the nation in annual alumni donations and in par­

Cooney: "Clubs continue to be very viable." 
ticipalion of the alumni in University. af­fairs. 
The Role of the Club 
Cooney attributes this success to a recent modification in the role of the club. For­nwrl~·. the average alumni dub was a social 
group that gathered occasionally to watch ft,otball highligh'5 over a few drinks. Todav. the Alumni Association has involved itselr' in recruting. summer job placement. and ,·arious other spn·ices to students and prospective students. 
"The clubs continue to lw very \'iable." commented CoonPy ~ecently. "They are lt>ss social than in the pasi. although that Plement is still there. and they are more Sl'rvice-oriented." 
Alumni dubs are divided into three dasses. Pach signified by a different colored pin on .Jordan's map. Class A clubs are signified by nine red .pins, and each in­dudes over 750 members. The Chicago, NPw York. and St. Joseph \'alley clubs are the largest with over 500(} memhP.rs. 
Twenty-nine yellow pins on the map 
represent Class B clubs, each with mem­
lll'rship betwpen 200 and 750 alums. Class C 
clubs. each with fewer than 200 members. 
number 119. The smallest club in the 
Association is located in Salina. Kansas, and . includes eight Notre Dame graduates. 
The Notre Dame Alumni Association consists of nearly 50,000 Jiving Notre Dame graduates. of which the Association can contact nearly 40,000 Y'ithout delay. The n•st are abroad or in areas that do not have active clubs. About 120 nf the 157 clubs are currently labeled "active" by Assistant I>irl.'clor Jordan. 
Organization of Alumni Clubs 
I<:ach local dub elects representatives to the Alumni Senate. a quasi-policymaking. body I hal meets in the Fall and the Spring of each vear. The association is subdivided into IS "regions." which host Fallmt•t•tingsOf the senators from each region. The regional 
meetingsare often scheduled to coincide with "away" football games. The Spring meet.ing of the entire Senate is at Notre Dame and coincides with the annual Blue­Gold football game. 
Most Alumni Association affairs are the. responsibility of the Board of Directors, a nineteen-member group that meets in the Fall. Winter. and Spring of each year. 
Fifteen members on the Board are 
representatives from the fifteen regions, and are elected to three-year terms. Five are~,>)ected .each to allow for continuity in the body. In addition to the fifteen, three at large "recent alumni" representatives are elected. each having graduated within the past five year, and the past president, titled 1he "Honorary President," sits on the 
Board. 

Central Office: Cooney and Jordan 
Day-to-day affairs of the organization are handled by Cooney, the Executive Director, and his assistant, Jordan. Cooney graduated from Notre Dame in 1959, and began work in the Alumni office in 1965, .after stints in journalism and public relations. He became director in 1967. 
.Jordan is a 1968 graduate, who was hired as Assistant Director the following year. This summer. the office is hiring a third man. the "field secretary," who is expected to lighten the workload now on Cooney and Jordan. 
The principle function of the central office is communication with the clubs. This communication includes information ser­\'ices. representation of the University at dub functions, organization of annual rt'unions. and stimulation of clubs con­sidered "dormant" because of their inac­tivity. 
Goals 
The goal of the Notre Dame Association is two-fold. according to Jordan. "We have to tell the story of this place." he staed recently. "Our goal is not to cover up or deny faults. but rather to tell the truth. l!nneslly. we fee. is the best way to get positivi.' results." 
Cooney elaborated on this theme, com­nwnling. "Alumni really care about this place. but in order for them to care. they must understand the reality oft the llniversily. This is a growing ·university, not something ·that stops when a person lea\'es. We must bring the reality of the place to the people who care about it." 
('oonev evalutated the reaction of most alums ·to the students of 1973 as posili\'e. "Alumni realize we have a pretty remarkable type of guy and gal," he con­cluded. 
A erit ical part of any alumni group's activit~· is fund-raising. and Notre Dame ranks with Dartmouth and Vanderbuilt in the I op Ihree of American alumni organizations in this activity. Former Donwrs who contribut do so at the average of 125 dollars per year. totalling $2.5 million. 
Slightly more that half or the 50,000 alums ('Ontribute :•early. 
A most encouraging note, according to 
Cooney. is frequesncy with which recent graduates contribute. Their dollar amount is not yet large, since most are not finan­cially secure. but their active participation, Coonev savs. bodes well for Notre Dame's future~ · 
The Annual Fund and "Cultivation" 
The : rincipal program in the alumni giving campaign is the Notre Dame Annual Fund. This is organized on both geographic) and class lines. In OCTOBER AND March of l'ach year. cities are selected as "target areas" for two weeks of intensive solicitation. during which the Association directs mail and telephone calls to its members. Clkasses that hold reunions in the Spring are asked to give on that basis. which leads to creation of a "Class of '68 Fi\'e Year Fund." the "Class of .63 Ten­Yt•ar Fund," etc. 
.Jordan calls the entire process of com­munication and fund-raising "a never­t•nding process of clutivation." If the reality of Notre Dame reaches the people who care 
I 
' 

and want to help then the A.nm.iaJ Fund will reflect this. 
Student-Alumni Relations 
Because fo their position as "on campus" graduates, Cooney and Jordan are prominent as speakers at local club func­tions. and they frequently serve as an alumnus' primary contact with the University for long periods of time. Working with the Alumni Association in this communications effort are students from the Student-Alumni Rleations Group ISARG \ who accompnay administrators to local club functions. 
In a time when ideology and life-style can so harshly separate sons form fathers, one might expect to find a few sparkd and emotional flare-ups when students and their elders get together. Indeed, Cooney has memories·.of "some real knock-down, drag­outs." but on the whole, alumni seem to accept the reality of Notre Dame in 1973. As Jordan puts it. 'they realize there will always be change." 
The favorite topic of discussion at Alumni meetins, according to Jordan, is what is considered "a deacline in discipline at Notre Dam!.'." 
"Many alumni feel," says Jordan, "that something is being lost here, that there is no longer the deep commitment to reltion and to the hallmarks of what it means to be a good Catholic." 
Abandoning Students 
"With the liberalization of the rules that caml' in the 1960's. there is a feeling that . somehow the administration is abandoning 
tlw students." 
Tlw most concerned alums, in Jordan's \·iew. are those with children of their own who may soon be approaching college age. Tlwse graduated anywhere from the early fifties to the very ealry sixties. Graduates from 1964 and later seem most comfortable with the chang~s that have taken place since they ll.'ft. Surprinsingly, Jordan considers some members of the classes of the '20's and ·:lO's to be perhaps the most liberal of all in accepting progress at Notre DAME. Their reaction "reveals a perspective that only comes with age," he beleives. 
Alumni Association and Admissions 
A necessary part of the "cultivation" process involves admissions. and the Alumni Association is responsive to alumni rl'quest that "special consideration" be given certain applications for freshman and Iransfer students. 
"We are not at the point where we can accept a student who does not have the minimal requirements to get in here," notes .Jordan. ''but if we owe anything to anyone, Wl' certainly owl' something to the men and women who have made Notre Dame what it 
IS. 

And so the Alumni Association oc­cassionally exerts pressure on behalf of an individual applicant. usually the son or daughter of an alum 
Influence in Student Affairs 
Noting that alumni interest seems cen­IPrPd nn discipline. sports. admissions. and. mon• recentlv. academia. manv students \\'Ondt•r about the role of the Alumni :\ssot·ialion plays in the University decision-making..Jordan contends that the strength nf their arguments is their only power. "Tlw Association has always been a rather iJil'fft•t·tual and innocuous ;.roup in campus
" affiars. They have the-power of per­suasion." 
The power of persuassion, of course, may be considerable. Communication between the Alumni office and individual graduates has improved in recent years, and as Jordan is quick to point out, "a person who has a basic understanding of this place may have some very valid arguments to raise. Communication means he knows what's happening." 
One example of effective alumni action in~o.lved the. upgrading of the Campus Mm1str.y Office, formerly the University Chaplam. Four years ago, the University Chapl.ainwas quartered in the bus stop at lh~ c1rcle. but after alumni pressure the office was moved to the Library and placl.'d under the office of the Vice-President for Student Affairs. 
The future: Cooney's View 
Something that often bothers any suc­cessful organizationis the "Where-do-we-go­from-here'?" question. Notre Dame's Alumni Ass.ociation is certainly successful, and Execul!ve Director Cooney has several <wswl.'rs to the nagging question. 
With communication the ultimate goal, Cooney sees profit in the use of newl~: developed media, such as stereo tape cassettes. film and v-ideotape. Cassettes of the January Pace Observance were sent to the families of the 32 Notre Dame alumni who died in the fighting in Vietnam. E\'enlually. Cooney hopes to build a cassette library around the theme of "The Living Notre Dame," so that graduates can keep in bettl'r touch with the campus by requesting one or more cassettes made on campus and concerning the c<nnpus. 
Cooney also hopes to..find money for a ,·ideo! ape library built along similar Jines. This would. in time, become a sort of "film archives" of Notre Dame. and filsm could he distributed to alumni clubs the same as loolball highlights are distributed totlay. 
Anolhl.'r topic that is o perennial interest to alums is the Notre Dame sports program. The schools' representative to a club func­tion must be prepared to answer l.'verything_ 
The Alumni Association seems stable slruclually at least into the foreseeable fulurl.'. primarily because the Club system works so well. There will always be "dormant" clubs to cajole into activity. but the philosophy of service and com­munication adopted by the modern club seems to satisfy the graduates interested in his alma mater as well as can be expected. With increased support from recent graduating classes. one is hard pressed to disagrel.' with Cooney's optimistic view of the Alumni Association's future. 

.· , i · · · ..·. · Jordan: "If we owe anything t&anyone, we certainly owe something to the men and 
women who hi1VI' '"'"' ••· 
THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSP~PER 
John Abcwd Editor-in-Chief 
Don Ruane Executive Editor 
Dan Thornton  
NEWS: 283-1715  Business Manager  
EDITORIALS: 283-8661  
BUSINESS: 283-7471  Joe Butler  
Advertising Manager  

Wednesday, March 7, 197-3' 

fram the editar!ls desk: 
C'est fini 
For five days now I've been telling myself: "Don't get personal in your last editorial --it's !unprofessional." But in spite of my own personal apprehensions, getting personal is really the only ap­propria te thing to do. After all, nobody really wants to hear any more analysis of SBP elections, campus housing or Notre Dame security. 
In the day-to-day newspaper world these and similar subjects are often discussed but seldom put in perspective that\suggests why it is we should worry about such mundane things. What is the advantage of the student critique to the university as a whole? 
Economic 
The first benefit, as always is economics. The student critique suggests ways that the university might improve in the eyes of its primary customee For education in the United St._tes i-8'1l buyer's market. "This meaa8 -that an institution 
that wants to survive must make a real demonstration of its desirability to prospective students. The student who doesn't think Notre Dame is worth im­proving won't waste his time making suggestions. However, the suggestions those students who have taken the trouble 
r to research their positions is surely the 
best market information this university will be able to find. 
Educational 
The seNJ'I'Td benefit is educational. The student critique provides a valuable opportunity to systematically analyze one'e political and social environment. For the rest ot our lives we will have to 
make decisions about the governance and quality of the communities in which we live. If the university teaches us that such decisions are merely idle excercises in futility, then, it must take some 
rPsponsibility for the poor citizens it has 
~ent out into the world. 
Professional 
The last benefit is professional. The student critique can be a valuable substantive docurrientdeserving of all the 
daanesbury 

tJ.fJ. Hetze, >tR. r ;rvsr WAN-r&O /0 611/£ yoU /1 PR06Re55 R&PD£T ON 1'1'( , MP&R oN v'!~/N/1/1. trs 
-COH!N(3 11~NG FIN~! 
woUUJ you t-tK& ro HERR T/1£ R£.51 /Ifl... _... s(.)f!£.. 

I r 
3-7 
consideration that contract research receives. To argue otherwise -confuses the relationship between professional training and guided research. Students should be able to make worthwhile contributions to university operations in the area of their professional training. Even though the\ project was undertaken as an educational endeaver, the final product need not be ordinary work. 
The Student Partner 
But this discussion is still too abstract. It must be my social science training that makes me think that these points should be obvious to even the most casual observer. It just doesn't make sense to work as hard as Notre Dame does to get good students then to treat those students as though they cannot be the intelligent people they have the potential to become after graduation. 
This is not to be as pessimistic as it sounds. In four years I have seen many promising events in the growth of the student as a full partner in the university community. Its just that everytime I think we're close enough to celebrate somebody does something that sets the process back a year. 
'Why Notre Dame?' 
For several years now people have asked me: "Why did you pick Notre Dame?" Nobody ever got a straight answer. I don't hate· the place. I have two brothers here and a third who has applied. I would certainly have told them if I did.. There is a cer­tain disappointment in knowing that students still don't get the consideration I think· they deserve. But there is also a deep satisfaction in knowing that the people at Notre Dame helped this nor­mally mixed-up freshman put his pieces together. 
The last words I can leave are the only words I ever told anyone who asked that infamous question. "Notre Dame is like wine--it improves with age." 
John Abowd 
Miles Ta l:ia... So Long, 
Poobahs 
butch ward 
For well over a year now, one term has become the trademark for every active political person not affiliated with our present Oligar­chy. That term--the "Poobah." 
But perhaps during the past few weeks, we have seen that label become applicable to those very guardians of selfless service them­selves. the hierarchy of our Ohgarchy. I feel certain that members of our present administration would flagrantly deny any claim to such a despicable title as poobah, but perhaps their anger is .misdir<>cted. Hather than level their wrath at their accusers, they should level it towards the very politics that gave them their present position. 
I. Butch Ward, was a poobah. But today I bid farewell to a large portion of that misunderstood group of activists. I say good-bye to that group of poobahs distinguished from their peers by an important element. And that element is one of motivation. Many poobahs arc motivated by a tremendous desire to be of service to their cor.­stituents. and that group is·more thanwilling to admit their mem­bership in the "poobah-tic" society. 
For it's,those people who admit the influence and helpfulness of polititcs in their efforts to improve student life. They do not deny the <>gocentric qualities of those who seek and obtain political office. Xhere: is. indeed, a very definite feeling of self-satisfaction that arises from endorsement by one's peers. But for the well-motivated poobah, the lustre soon vanishes from his position or "power". He finds what it l'('ally means to serve. 
But last year we heard this charge of "ego-building" leveled against every serious candidate seeking the office of SBP. It was leveled by a group of funny men with:new ideas abouthow to remove politics from student government. They have failed miserably.. Just take a good, hard look at how they ran last week's "election." The fact is that politics cannot be removed from the student government structure at Notre Dame. 
And politics should not be removed from our student government. Not if these politics are motivated by a real concern for betterment of student life, And tor the week preceeding the first election, it appeared 
as if we· actually had poobahs motivated by such good intentions. 
But one has to seriously questipn the motivation of an Oligarchy that 
·attempts to allow write-in ballots in a run-off election, when the purpose of a run-off is to necessarily gain a majority of votes for one candidate..(A check of balloting by the board of Commissioners concerning the'Eiection Committee's decision to allow write-ins will show the only supporting votes were cast by members of the present Oligarchy· administration. l 
And one has to seriously question the motivation of the members of Sergeant ;Ollie's Sore Losers' Club Band, who sacrificed all of the serious platforms they promoted during the course of the campaign in order to support the King in his "If we can't win no one will" cam­
paign/. ' 
And again, consider the motivation of an administration who. con­Iinually scheduled and called off SLC elections last spring, thus toying with one of the student body's chief sources of representation with the 
administration. ' 
And )('t HS not forget to question the motivation of that candidate who' last year promised action through student support, rallies for student causes on the quad, and other experssions of mass student sentim('nt, and .then appeared at his first rally a year later in order to preserve that invaluable form of government. 
!<'or any of these people to deny the title of poobah is for the student body to lw deceived with more "propaganda;" it only remains for these people to honestly defend the motivation behind their politics. 
I was quite proud at the conclusion of last week when I could say that d('spite the years·of political prompting by people I respect, I did not seek the office of president. Poobahs are not supposed to pass up such opportunities. But politics no longer interest me, and they .can no longer interest any sincere person here at Notre Dame as much as people do. · 
Under the present form of student government it is impossible to maintain that proper motivation--that "people" motivation--without being smothered by the "unpolitical" poobahs. Question their motivation: I know a lot of self -a_dmitted poobahs who could stand up honestly to your questions..I will be writing about them, tOo~· 

'J:r ts H'lg~uer rH!ll 
/.YtiPON .TOHN£0N /JJIA-9& 
!2eH£"H8!3/2&[) /15 ON£ Or 
-rf£ 6Refll ONES. /II 11 '1/Hc NHC/11 -rtf£WIIR W!fS fir 1/.J' HOST (.)/'IPOftit-IJI!, HR :JOHN50Af SHOW£0 
\ 

The Observ• 
Night Editor; Jack Frischkorn Ass't Night Editor; Susan Prendergast layout Artist; Albert D'Antonio 
Day Editor; Mary Egan Picture-man: Jerome 
Typists: Howard Halle, Diane Chermside, John Flannigan Compugraphic: Bullet Night Controller: Bob Steinmetz Copy Editor: Ed Ellis 



Letters•• 
Child Neglect Black Studies courses twice. lions of a few misguided Wisconsin And then there are those who in like any university, exists to ex­In response to the two issues 
fans two weeks ago when the good conscience submitted to plore truth. Further, I believe that
stated above, it was suggested that Badger hockey team visited South induction, were unlucky enough to truth and Christianity are an Office of Black Student Affairs Bend for a regular season series, be wounded while serving in synonymous, and that, to beI<:ditor: he established. Two immediate dishonesty an Vietnam. are the university
Bouffard's is un­and who now Catholic, this mustIf vour wife forgot to take her pill goals of the Black Student Affairs pardonable slur against Notre permanently disabled--the para­therefore encourage the ex­and ·had another child, would yo~ Office would be to assertain the Dame's fine reputation as one of and· -quadJ:a plegics'-filling our VA ploration of the mystery ofthrow it out of the house because 1t feasibility of the "Black House" the leaders of American collegiate hospitals: Christianity. But one implicationupset vour planned parenthood and the required course entitled athletics. Let's hope that this In a war that has. no-. her.oes, of the mystery is the fact that theformat 'sheet? Because of the lack "Minority Experience'.' 
unfortunate situation isn't there were still some men who Christian (aith is not given toof concern demonstrated by the The course was specifically repeated in the future. acted with honor. Some of them everyone, although God does invite administration in this recent suggested in the light of making remain stranded in Canada, but everyone to pursne truth. If we arehousing crisis we believe Notre Notre Dame a more humane and Dave Pritchard may others occupy .our prisons and to become fully aware howDame ·•our Mother" is lacking in compassionate place to live. We David Kaufman our hospitals. Ttiey should not be remarkable the gift of faith is, itmaternal instinct. If the ad­\\'l're addressing ourselves to an of the Daily Cardinal <Madison forgotten. seems to me that we ·should en­ministration is going to act "In attempt to break down some of the Wisconsin> courage dialogue with those who
Loco Parentis", they must accept hostility which exists between WMartin Hagan do not share the gift, but who dothe responsibility of parenthood as White people and Black people on 420 Keenan Hall 
share mankind's common in­
\\'Pli as its priveleges. Notre Dame's campus. It is our Eds' note--If they wanted tickets, vitation to seek truth. In otherFather Hesburgh recently spoke opinion that a close relationship they should have played at words, I think that such diagloguein Morrissey Hall. He commented l'Xists between the empathy that Wisconsin. not Notre Dame. Home Rodes' Christians is ne_cessary if we are to un­upon some of his other a~tivi~ies rweds to be generated in order to derstand Christianity "a lot better
teams get the tickets, Badgers!
outside of running the Umvers1ty. understand Black people and than we do." •Editor:These included fund raising for touching roots with one's reality as 
Professor Robert E. Rodes'
such things as theological stu~y a human being. The concept of the Finally, my comment about the centers in Jerusalem. For th1s course needs, and merits, sub­Real Heroes letter in the February 19th edition 
"suppression of thought" was
of the Observer prompts this brief purpose alone he raised over one stantive discussion. 
directed toward the use of polemic, reply.
million dollars: couldn't those AI this stage of our cultural Editor: and nothing else. Polemic, evenFirst. with one exce.ption Ifunds have also been used to understanding all that need be said Christian polemic, is antithetical
subscribe to Dr. Rodes' in­
alleviate the housing shortage? of the Black House is that · Now that some measure of peace to dialogue, to Christian witness,terpretation of my·position. ·<'fheWhy doesn't he do some fund financing of the house was not has come to Vietnam. it is time and to the intellectual enterprise of exception, which may be nothing
raising for d9rm_ito_ry problems_? discussed and Black people have that we begin to bring peace home a university. I trust that my·com
more than a semantic quibble,If this is a Chnstlan commumty more on their minds than to our own war-divided country. 
ment will not be read apart from
concerns my position that
we should deal with our oroblems basketball and parties. There are many issues involved in this cont~xt, since I am too oJo andChristians Should advance theon the basis of a Christian this process of reconciliation. but tired to believe in devil theories.Gospel by personal witnessphilosophy rather then on a Clark R. Arrington the only· one that has received the and conspiracies. As Christians, I"without any expectation of in­statistical balance. Couldn't the attention of the local media has think we have been given one
stitutional support." In this
university force the graduate 8of24 members of the Student Life been the issue of amnesty for those power. the power to be com­context. and from my perspective, students off campus? After all, Collncil are students. ed. who chose exile over induction. 
passionate. Without that, not eventhe word "institution" must bethey have already undergone the There has also been a tendency all the tongues of angels and ofunderstood to refer to the civil
undergraduate collegiate ex­on the part of our campus 
men count for very much.
institutions of the secular state. Iperience while we have not. Campus Honor? spokesmen to call the draft­believe that no one can be aCouldn't the standard bearers of l'Vaders our "true heroes," and to Cordially, in Christ,Christian in isolation, and that theChristianity -the Holy Cross attribute to them a high degree of
Editor: Robert L. Kerby
Christian life necessarily involvesBrothers -have recognized our moral purpose. 
particpation in the sacramental
problem and allowed us partial I have two points to make. IUID111U1UIIHHIIUI~.
Last Friday evening, some and human institiution of theusage of their half-empty Columba First. I disagree about imputing
unkind person stole a student's Church. Indeed, I believe that a
Hall'~ We have always been told any heroism or implicit morality to
lone Steven T. Campbell's) mature commitment to the.life fo
we are the Christian family of those who evaded the draft. My
painting from the boxing room of the Church is the only alternative
Notre Dame. why are the older own impression of this group, Printout
the old Field House. The we have to the varieties of
children to be thrown out of the gained from both draft-counseling
painting is a small work of a ideological totalitarianism abroad
house before we are ready to and visits in Montreal, has been Contest
woman getting out of a car. today, and that this alternative is
leave? that their motivation for fleeing
II is disheartening to hear that ours because God, in His Love for 
There's much talk about the was essentially personal. Getting
such an uncouth act could happen us. chose to make us His people.
spirit of Notre Dame, that's why drafted was for them not so much a
at Notre Dame. And yet it did. Second, I subscribe completely Camera Freaks: Campus
we came here. We have, in three matter of maoral decision as it was 
II would have been a different with Dr. Rodes' first and second Printout entries must be in by 5 
· vears come love Notre Dame a personal inconvenience, a: 
case if the object were of some suggestions, concerning our p.m. today, if you have black and
and what we felt it represented but "hassle." which they meapt_,.W
·utilitarian value <e.g. a stereo or a Christian obligation to do white photos of campus scenes you
that spirit has not been evident in avoid at· any cost, even if_.Ule'cost
ten-speed bicycle.. Such objects everything we can to transform would like to see published, bring 
the actions of the administration. meant exile. It wasa-t-otigh choice 
are essentially detached from the world's institutions and our them to The Observer office, third
Alumni are one of the mainstays of but I would not call it heroic or
ourselves: we remain passive to Christian which contrast with the floor LaFortune before the
this university and someday the moral. Many of us, for all kinds of 
their existence for tht"most part. faith of Christianity. In fact, I deadline. A $10 prize awaits the
Class of 74 will also sell those reasons. evaded the draft. ·Exile'
Yet this was a painting, of a believe that we must continue to do best pictures selected by our
ranks. If the spirit of Notre Dame was only the extreme form of
value that is based in­even though we may know that we judges.
(whether it be called family or evasion.
trinsically· in the act of artistic will fail. A Christian. I think, is Contestants are limited to three
community or whatever> that we Secondly, I take exception to the found here is lost due to this callous creation. It is an object that one, singling out of this one group to be neither limited by optimism nor by entries All entries must be 
actively, remains in constant pt'ssimism, since he does not marked with the name, address
lack of fhristian concern for the the subject of our sympathy and 
d ia Iogue with: an interaction depend on himself to achieve and phone number of the
students by the administration so our controversy. Many Americans t·esults. ·He is called to be a fool, a
not only of visual communication, photographer. Only entries. with
may our alumni contributions be have suffered because of the war. 
lost in years to come. Remember, What our exiles have suffered isbut of feeling itself. fool who hopes in the Lord and stamped. self-addressed envelopes 
lives that hope, come what may.
To the person who walked off will be returned.
Notre Dame's opinion of us after not to be ignored but there are The world will change, if we are 
we graduate is not as important as with this painting: <I'm not sure if others whose sufferings are--if Observer and Dome 
faithful. 
our opinion of Notre Dame. the work is completed> Can you anything--even more horrible. photographers are ineligible.
Third. I have some difficultylive with it on your wall knowing 
There are those who chose not to 

with Dr. Rodes' third suggestion,Bill Murphy damn well that it was a cheap act evade the draft but to confront it, concerning the intellectual en­
Tim Davern on your part to take it? and who are now serving prison 1lllllllllllllllllllllll lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 
terprise of a Catholic university. I217 Morrissey All I ask is that you return the terms as witness to their beliefs. 
think that a Catholic university,work--surely when no one is 
looking--and no questions will be
Black Culture asked. 
Sincerely yours.

Editor: 
Timothy J. Standrig 

Since the meeting three weeks 
Sour 
ago with the Stud~e.IJt Lif~~~ I incidentally, out of36members 9 'Red' Grapesare sluden.tsl the· Black com­
Editor:munity has been the subject of 
substantial erroneous reporting We'd like to let the Notre Dameand off the point criticism con­
cerning the so called "Black 
community in on the methods the Proposals." For the benefit of 
NO Athletic Department is using to "good faith" critics, "anti-Black 
keep Wisconsin hockey fans away segr("gationists" and the rest of the 
from South Bend for this Notre Dame community allow me weekend's WCHA playoffs. 
to rlear the air concerning the Don Bouffard, athletic ticket issues and recommendations director. has continually lied to discussed at the February 5th peop-le phoning him from 
Student Life Council meeting. Wisconsin about the availability of tickets for this important series. Issues He has directed his staff to tell any 
How can members of the Notre railers from Wisconsin that the Dame community become. more games are sold out. which at the undl'rstanding and sensitive of present time (Tuesday noon) is far other human beings? from the truth. We learned that 
Until that happens. how can the "well ove.r" five hundred tickets task of survival become facilitated remained to be sold to the genera: for Black students on Notre public as of late Tuesday morning. Dame's campus'~ Bouffard. when confronted with 
the obvious discrepancy between HPcom menda tions the facts and what his staff was 
WP did not suggest Theology telling out-of-state callers, ad­courses be eliminated, but milled that he had lied. "And we inquired why students pursuing a will continue to do so." he told this 
Black Studies certificate alopg 
reporter.
\\·ith their major could not count In spite of the unfortunate ac-
STUDENT UNION PRESENTS THE TRIUMPHANT RETURN OF THE BEACH BOYS 
Saturday March 31 Tickets: $5.50, 4.50, 3.00 Tickets on sale at Student Union & A.C.C. Ticket Offices. Students are urged to purchase tickets before Spring Break in order to get the best seats. 




It's a simple situation: a river in Georgia will soon be dammed up to form a reservoir and the last chance to shoot the rapids in a canoe trip is quickly approaching. Four men. three rather reluc­tantly. decide to accept the river's challenge and set up a "pleasant weekend.'' 
But what that "pleasant weekend" becomes is the basis of one of the most devastating films to be produced in a while. In showing the demise of many of the mvths of machismo. Deliverance li~es up to its title and delivers the audience through one man's baptism by fire into true manhood, while at the same time questioning what that term really means. 
For the first half of the film, Burt Heynolds completely dominates the action of the film in the role of Lewis Medlock. Lewis is your standard of manhood, defiant pose all. that is the primary driving force of the entire trip. Lewis dominates because he, more than anv of the others, is truly in his element. But is he? One starts to wonder after awhile if he's for real. Nobody really says all those dramatically "heavy" lines; nobody is really that much "one with nature." 
But it's not until the second half 
of the film that it finally comes 
out: Lewis isn't for real. After the 
group meets two mountain men 
and their subsequent adventures 
with them <including a well done, 
but repulsive. rape scene followed 
by a killing), the city people shoot 
the rapids of th~ river and Lewis is 
virtually elil')linated from the main 
plot with a broken leg. He is 
Satisfied with events 
Two voice views on elections 
by Janet Longfellow Staff Reporter 
Two members of the Student Government Board of Com­missioners stated their satisfac­tion yesterday with the course of events since last Thursday's run­off election. 
Fred Baranowski, Hall Presidents Council Chairman stated, "The Board of Com­missioners had a task and they carried it out. Any comments about write-ins and abstentions are useless now because they won't change anything. I think it's wise to hold off elections until after spring break; but I wonder what will stop the whole thing from happening again." 
"Concerning the new Con­stitution." continued Baranowski, "I think that compromise is the only way that will get anything done. I think the HPC is definitely a very representative group and I would favor them taking over Student Government. but, we can't deny students the right to elect their own student body president. And. whichever way the con­stitution goes, I feel the HPC will have more voice and decision­
making power in Student Af­
fairs." 
Mall Cavanaugh. Student Life 
\ouncil representative and a 
nwmber of the Board of Com-
JUNIORS Very I-mportant 
The photographer for Yearbook Portraits is .leaving Friday {March 9, 1973) never to return to take your portrait for the yearbook, your mother, your girlfriend. 
So why the hell haven't you made your appointment yet! GET OFF YOUR ASS • CLASS OF '74 CALL 283-8473 IMMEDIATELY ­
reduced to screams and cries at the pain in his legs. The manliness andcoura~ehe wore like a badge in the first part of the movie dissolving into grunts and groans.Reynolds plays this role to the hilt. His portryal of the brash, highly self-confident outdoorsman is so convincing as to inspire genuine feeelings of pity from the audience of the pathetic situation this character has built around himself. One really admires Lewis, but wishes, for his sake, that he would drop the fake image. 
The second half of the film belongs to Jon Voight and he shines. In the role of Ed Gentry, Vorgb.t plays the man who must take Up where Lewis failed, who must lead ·when Lewis cannot. "Now it's your-1turn to play the game," Lewis tells Ed, 
As the meek and conservative city dweller. Voight effectively displays Ed's hesitation to assume the very real responsibility necessary for the four men to survive. The courage is there, but Ed must drag it out against the grain. and Voight shows this slow emergence of courage excellently. 
This changes Ed more than he thinks. especially when he returns from the grim task of killing a man with many of Lewis' attitudes apparent. Again, credit to Voight is given in his realization of the many changes in Ed in convincing the audience that somehow Ed will always measure up to those fears "Oh. God, won't it ever end?" one of the other men whines. No, it won't. Ed knows it and braces himself to accept the full meaning and Voight shows that bracing. 
missioners. agreed that the election was run without political prejudice; and that the Campus Press subsidies, Campus special and the blank write-in ballots were proof of this. 
In reaction to the opinion that Kersten's intentions were purely political. he explained, "It may have been a political move. but it was necessary one because with twenty eight people running, you could not choose a representative run-off candidate." 
·"Concerning prohibition of write-in votes, my opinion is tha.t it was the right thing to do. The general election which was Thursday gave l<lllYOne a chance to get their name on the ballot. It was my understanding that the run-off election was to choose the two most popular candidates. Allowing write-ins on the election would defeat the whole purpose. That is why I would not allow write-ins." 
"The f<~lection Comission was eompletely just in doing this, said \avanaugh. "When we set up the f<~lection Committee, it was !agreed that they would make the decisions, but they would be subject to our approval." 
"II was stated that the election committee nwmbers would not be responsible to a political body. I don't see any way to get around this because the electioncommittee 
has to answer to ~nmeone, and 
I hey will always be politically 
involved." 

Cavanaugh agreed with Election 
Committee Chairrnan, Paul 
Dziedzic's statement, and felt a 
new constitutioncould carry out his 
ideas. ConcerniQg 

Diziedzic's quest for dynamic and 
motivated student leaders 
Cavanaugh felttbese traits would 
be provided by HPC members. 
Indiana ap~·,.,~<Elii•C!• 

SMC plans for nursing progr9m 
The Indiana State Board of Nurses' 
Hegistration and Nursing 
Education approved the Saint 
Mary's College application to 
establish a Department of Nursing 
at the baccalaureate level on 
Friday March 2, 1973. 

In order for any school to initiate 
a Nursing Program in the State of 
Indiana. approval is required by 
the State Board of Nurses' 
Hegistration and Nursing 
Education. 

On February 3, 1973, the Board of 
Hegents of Saint Mary's College 
unanimously voted to initiate a 
Nursing Program, officially 
beginning with the September 19'73 
school ~·ear. 

joseph abell 
IIIIUIIIDIIIIWIIUIIUDUUIWUWHIJIIIIIIIIIIDIWII 
Deliverance 

Jon Voight Ed Burt Reynolds Lewis Ned Beatty Bobby Ronny Cox Drew Billy McKinney Mountain Man Herbert coward Toothless Man James Dickey Sheriff Bullard 
Produced and directed by John Boorman; 
Screenplay by James Dickey, based on his . 'novel; Director of Photography, Vilmos 
Zsigmond; Art Director, Fred Harpman; 
"Duelling Banjos" arranged and played by 
Eric Weissberg with Steve Mandel; Special 
Effects, Marcel Vercoutere; MPAA 
1rating : R; playing daily at the Riverpark 
Theater, Mishawi1ka 

1)1111IIIIIII111111111111111111111111 IIIUIInIIDO IIIIIHUII Technically, the film is stunning. Shot on location on parts of the Chatanooga River in Georgia, the almost overbearing setting becomes a character itself. "You don't beat this river," Lewis says before the trip. He's right. You don't, for it's ultimately the river that proves the real man. And to say that just Voight and Reynolds are the best in the film is to underrate many fine actor.s Ned Beatty as the fat Atlanta salesman-sheep is quite good. Same with Honnv Cox as the overly-introspective intellectual. Their characterizations very ef­fectively suppliment the two ieads and help deliver the real impact of the ilm: that not every man could become and Ed Gentry in such a situation. Billy McKinney and Herbert Coward are also very evil as the depraved nountain men. James Dickey, as the 'Sheriff (also the 
I 
author of the book and screen­play}, shows that he can write better than act; other incidental characters are sufficintly realistic. but become more a part of the setting than individuals. 
The entire mood of the film is greatly enhanced by the "theme song," "Dueling Banjos" and its variations hear throughout. Even the pattern of the song itself is symbolic of the conflicts in the plot. 
Deliverance is one of the most impressive films, production-sie and acting-wise, to come out in a long while. It's up for Best Picture in the Oscar race,and I for one can see why. 
=~=~~Em 
1723 So. Bend Ave. 
Call ahead for 
SPRING CELEBRATION SUPPLIES 
* Enjoy Spring Vatation -Take home a bottle of Fighting Irish Bourbon 
Check our March Beer Special *DISCOUNTS AVAILABLE* 
Craig Kapson or Lois Tranter JORDAN MOTORS 259-1981 
. 21 andover 
Shooting the rapids proves to be a dangerous ambition for Burt Reynolds (left) and Jon Voight in Deliverance, now playing at the Riverpark Theater. 
PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Main Bulldlnc 
tntervil!'<l• ere for tenlon end j\nduue nudenu. Sl1n~up tchedulu en in Jtoo-207, l'Win lluildlnl!. lnurvt~ ti-• IIIUit bi!' 1l'lected end ll~~:nrd for ln petlon. MDur• It'll!' 8:00 •·•· to S:OO P·•· e1ch d1y, excll'pt rrldey. 11'11 Pl•c-t KlnUII ~~:tvet eddltlon•l info!""'tion r•r•rdin,: l.rnervlev• •nd proc:edur 
H.fJl, 20 A•rlun Cen CO!!Ieny. 118.\ tn Ac:ct, )IBA, ln F'ln. •lth 9 CTS of Elkhert. 8S tnE,t.end)'l.£. mTeli!'c:-lutionl, !S,MStiiE.£, W.lker 111nufecturtng Co. B!A end MBA. as In H.£.  • 12  houn Acet,  
HA,R, 21 ~<;routt of J..erlc1. B.\ •nd liM. Hontsa.ery Elllvetor C""!'!nr. ItA in K<t. an<l ~t. J~d HOIIIeShoppina. II~ in Mil-t. lnd~t.  
H.fJl. 1'l Indlana S:t•u He-rlt Se-rvice. IIAendBM. Hontsomerr Wl-rd. All liM, stblttHtC:hlnrillndf'oundry, liS lnJ't,'t, l!nui~T,  
Ho\!1. 23 Cornlna Glen \lorkl. liS, MS h1 !.E., Ch.E.,  H,E,,  M,£,1.0.  
Employer  infonn.ation.  Altunutve•.  Tuchln~~:.  51mfter,  

Actton/Pe.loctCorpi/Vht&, Fednlll Service, Room222, Ad111lnl1tntlon 8ldfll. NOTE: Sl~~tn-up •chedut.. for interview• the week of 11areh 19 
•re •v•tl•ble the week of 11arch 5. 
')/5/73 
Jim -class of '63 Chuck -cl;:.ss of '65 
l 
A 

1 
1 
l .. . A 

1 
--l 

l I 
J 
l 
~ 



Haslam speaks on tenure 


• t 
l l 
bargaining. faculty. and university goals. The The wishes retain
AAUP to the been generally accepted by the
by R. Thomas Thues 
Haslam concerned himself commission also suggested a mid­autonomy of the university. If a joint commisssion. First, the
Staff Reporter 
primarily with a joint commission career study of the professional university's faculty doesn't wish to commission urges an end to report compiled by the AAUP and development of university staff. enter into collective bargaining the discrimination by including ex­the American Council of Education The third point outlined by the AAUP will not apply pressure. ploited part-time professors in"Power to the People! Power to (ACE 1. This was a balanced commission's report was to There will be no college 
collective bargaining. Second, the
thPStudents! BlackPower! White commission professors establish general for in
of and a quota discrimination collective AAliP is assigned as a processing
Power! Power to the Profs!" institutional representatives. tenured professors. The recom­bargaining. The university is body for faculty complaints. And
Profs? The commission's findings were mended quota was left to the in­
looked upon as a whole and is finally. more professors should
People have shouted power three-fold. The first was that dividual institution. The report urged to enter collective take active role in
an ad­
slogans for years and consistently academic tenure was a positive pointed out that tenured professors bargaining as a .whole. This policy ministrative decision making.forgetting one of the more put-upon influence on higher education. A would raise to 80 percent if a 
allows the concerns of all depart­Most Notre Dame faculty wereminorities. Some University survey taken by the commission percentage quota wasn't ments to be heard. 
unable to attend the IUSB meetingprofes&ors~early face the threat of found that the academic and established. 
The AAUP's three goals have because of its timing.
tosmg their jobs. professional qualities of tenured New blood on university staffs is 
Dr. C.L. Haslam~ assistant professors was, in fact, higher than an asset to higher education, sPcretary for the American that of non-tenured professors commented Haslam, who went on Associa lion of University possessingthe same qualifications. to say how a quota system would 
ALUMNI CLUB 
Professors IAA UP>, spoke to The second point covered by the facilitate active involvement of about twenty local university commission concerned professors' tenured professors in university 
(will be closed until March 21st)
professors at Indiana University at ability. It suggested an upgrading staff decisions. South BPnd on the subject of of qualifications. It urged a con­Dr. Haslam's second major topic 
Have a Happy Break! 
faculty tenure and collective tinuous review of administration, concerned collective bargaining. 
Senior Bar T -Shirts can be Dr. John Malone speaks ordered on your return. 00 1 5 0 
on savings in SMC lecture~!!!!!!!!!!!s!!!!!!!!!!!2!!!!!!!!!!!·!!!!!!!!!!!a!!!!!!!!!!!n!!!!!!!!!!!d!!!!!!!!!!!l!s!!!!!!!!!·!!!!!11!0 !!!!!!!!!c.o_._·-~ 
by Mary Egan liP described this type of savinga im•vitable rate of 4 percent for the as providing for unexpected oc­nPxl :lO years," he added. 
Staff Reporter curances of emergencies. Long THE RED DOOR CLUB tPrm savings would provide adequately for an estate, Small Saver 
Stop in Open
"OnP of the real problems in rPtiremPnl. or to accomodate a saving is being specific about one'£ large purchase such as buying a goals." staled Dr. John R. Malone, car or hom£'. The best way a saver can gain a next 11 am-3 am associaiP dPan of Notre Dame's Money makes money greatpr rPiurn is to minimize the time l'ollPgP of vusiness in the lecture risk of various losses through I "How and where Do You CLhannel Malone quoted Benjamin divPrsification. he said. That is, to youreYour 'Savings," given in Carrol Franklin, who said that "money invest in as many different saving !IaII. last night. makes money and the money possibilities as one can. This takes thirsty
1which I money makes more some volume of principle which, "If you define your objectives 111011('\'.'' -unfortunatelv. the small saver cardullv. then vou can form a "Tl;at says what savings is all dOl'S not have. 
stra!Pgy for saving." said Malone, about." said Malone. "The in­When questioned about the best dPslTibing saving programs as cPnlitive one needs for saving \l'ay for a college student to save a having macro and micro ob­sssssssis return interest. We give relatively small amojnt. Malone 
NASSAU 
jPclivPs. up something in the short run to suggested cprtificates of deposit. Macro objectives are those on a somPihing in the long run." available at most savings and 
Flight Times
l'ompany or a country's economic loans. These have a lower lPvPI. he explained. A macro Inflation liquidity. hut offer the best possible objPctive of a!)y economy is to not return in this case. 
March 9 Check in at Metro Airport
consume all profits in order to l\1alone explained the values of provide for increasing production The main objective of saving is , various means of saving such as 
5:30-6:00 Depart 7:00 pm 
through savings. Malone pointed according to Malone, to ac­ehecking accounts. certificates of 
Arrive Nassau 10:00 pm
out that "few nations can save cumulate as much interest as dPposit. Government bonds, an~·thing, and unlesss they get possible protected from inflation, municiaal bonds. corporation 
outside help. they are condemned taxation. and investment fees , bonds. annuities. mjtual funds and to mPniocritv." with the maximum security from no-load funds. He recommended 
10:30 pm Arrive Detroit 1:00 am 
Micro objectives are those on a bad managememt of funds, and mutual funds. and variable an­familv or individual level, he with as much liquidity nuities. which protect against continued. A short term savings "A critical factor of saving is 'to inflation. but he again stressed 
Buses will leave from the circle in the 
oft this sor is one wlich is "ex­protect yourself from inflation." diversification. Malone recom­t r·pnwly liquid; "meaning easily statPd Malone. "Inflation is oot nwnded as investments one's own 
early afternoon {1 or 2 pm) Bus tickets 
accesible and making money more licked yet and probably won't be home. common stock, real estate 
are on sale at S.U. ticket office.
quic·kly available." for some time. There's an and commodities. 
Ash Wednesday services 
:\n Ash,Wednesday Mass will be whole spirit of the College which is, Geri and Noli Kane. Saing Mary's c<'lPhrated at 10:00 p.m., 'Wed­this vear. one of self-examination-­('ollPg<' will play guitar. nl·sa\·. !\larch 7. 1973, in Regina to d~1 rw·w and creative things and Coffee and cookiss will beserved 
llali.Chapel. Saint Mary's College, to improve the old things." in tlw lobby of Regina Hall :\otn· Dame. Indiana. "Further." SSister explains, following thl' service. Students, 
Tlw thl'me of the service is "Lent is the traditional time for facultv. administratin of Saint "Planning Our Lives" and is Christian renewal. The 1\lar/s Collpge and the public are ~ponsored by the Saint Mary's distribution of ashes is a reminder cordially invited. ('oll<'gP Campus Ministry. to plan our lives spiritually."' 
:\ccorcing to Sister Katherine The mass will be concelebrated BMC tennis team
Hl'idwrt. C.S.C.' "The focus will IH· ~piritual renewal. We want to h~· father Edward Reidy, C.S.C.' K J llltl'gratP this celebration into the and Father Hoger Cormier,C.S.C.' tOpS a amaz00 
On Sunday March 4, Saint 
1\larv's tennis team traveled to
Stereo center installed 
... 
Kalamazoo College to play their traditionally strong team. In what
for use at LaFortune 
could have been a one-sided by Gf"'rge Adela contest for Kalamazoo, SMC made 
havl' housed the system had to be a commendable showing by taking 
Staff Reporter 
converted into a darkroom. four out of nine matches. Student Union Director Jim Schneid expressed the hope that Competing in the singles mat­s hner'd w · · h •·hes \vere Marv Maurr·ce Keenan,
thPl' svstem would not be stolen.
• <' announced yesterday the · d ' 
" P re gorng to try an get sue DPbbie Cardns·. Sher'la Fr'nneran,
installation of a Stereo Center in J't'l'ords as the Classical Masters ' Lal''ortune. located just off the Collection used in Dr. Pedtke's l\l<iureen Luxem. Mary 'Wolf. and 
main floor in the "greenhouse" course so students may listen to Ann Vander Motter. with Keenan room. them. If other professors request I !l-oll. Vander Motter 18-51r and The stereo system, which carries to have certain records on hand. Luxem <H-31, posting victoriis. an estimated retail value of over The doubles teams consisted of 
$ '1111 IJO consrs. ts of d Student Union will buy them." .Juk•.· Mardor·an and Dathy
., . a Kenwoo h ' H<'ceiver. a BSR·310X Turntable Schneid emphasized t at The Beaulieu. Muggs Traudy and Janie l'DC k I II d St£•reo Center may be used l\l£•agher. wr'th Traudy and
and I wo ~ -3 spea ers. nsta e h · this weekend. the center is \I' enever LaFortune rs open. Meagher winning their match, 8­
Students may take their own 
available to anyone wishing to use records or check out records from ti. it. Bro. Gorch's office. Records from The team intends to play a full Sl·hneid stated that earlier plans Bro. (;orch's office however, will out-door Spring season. with called for opening the Center on regular practices and matches the third floor of LaFortune in not be available until after Spring with various other Indiana and 
! 
Break.
November. The room which would Michigan Colleges. 

Irish 

by Stan Urankar 
A pair of Notr~ Oame wmter sports squads .are happily heading into post-season action but while all the attention is going toward Madison Square Garden and home ice in the playoffs. another Irish \'arsit~· is preparing to begin its unheralded 1973 season. 
Coach Jake Kline's baseball team will open the campaign Saturday afternoon when they face 
Fencers visit Great Lakes 
by John Fineran 
With the Notre Dame campus buzzing over the NIT and WCHA playoffs, the Irish fencers are preparing for a tournament of their own--the Great Lakes Tournament at Wisconsin-Pa rkside this Saturday. Twelve teams are entered with six fencers. two in each weapon, comprising each of these entrants. 
Th.e team finished its season 
Saturday, defeating Cleveland State <19-8), Buffalo 06­11 >.and Case Western (21-6) in the A.C.C. 
"I'm happy with our per­formance. The kids are star­ling to put it together," coach Mike DeCicco said of his 15-3 team. 
The swordsmen will send tri­
captain Mike Matranga (20-7) and John Lauck <19-9) from epee, tri­captain Dan Mulligan (37-9) and George Viamontes <28-7) of sabre, and \ri-ca pta in Mike Cornwall (22­151 and Tom Coye (29-8) to foil to the tourney. 
"I picked Cornwall over Jim Mullenix <22-12) because of the fact that he is a senior." the coach said. "His' NCAA experience and Great Lakes experience also were factors in my decision. Jim will 
another shot at the tourney next season." Cornwall finished strong on 
turday and DCicco was pleased with his performance. "He looked excPIIent against good com­petition on Saturday. He and the others you expect to look good, did look good on Saturday. They made it easier for the rest of the team," he said. 
Notre Dame will be up against two teams which have marred the Irish record this season in Detroit and Wayne State. "Danosi <sabrel. Black <foil> and Schnider (epee l are among the top six talented men Wayne State will send to the tourney," DeCicco-:mfd. 
"Detroit. of course;:las defending national chatR~S. will be tough. Five of thir six fencers in the tourney last season are back." the Irish coach went on. 
Tv Simmons. a national cha.mpion and Olyinpic fen­cer· last season. should give the tourneyteams problems in foil for the Detroiters. Ken Black and Greg Kcab are also rated high in the sabres and foil, respectively. 
Achterhoff earns 
J 
trip to finals 
Jay Achterhoff has come a long way in a short time with the Notre Dame wrestling team and this W('ekend he will travel all the way to Seattle. Wash. for the NCAA Championships <March 8-10). 
Achterhoff. a defensive tackle on 
the Fighting Irish football team, 
joined the wrestling squal only last 
month. He will be competing 
against several of the nation's top 
hPavyweights, including Iowa 
State's Chris Taylor, last year's 
winner and favored to repeat this 
year. 
· A 6-4. 240-.pound freshman from 
Muskegon. Mich., Achteroff 
earne'd his way to the finals with a 
Ihirq place in the Eastern 
l~ualifying Tournament held in 
Cincinnati two weeks ago. He 
finishPd 4-1 in that meet. his 
only loss coming to the eventual 
ehampion. Bob Lee of Ball State. 
Two of his victories were by pins 
and his record now stands at 7-1 on 
th(' sPa son. 
New Mexico State in the first game a starter or relief man. A pair of slick-fielding sophomore Jim mark in his first varsity sea~. of a nine-day, twelve-game spring irosh, Bob Stratta and Mitch Senior Ed Lange and Howan:t
Smith of Binghamton, N.Y. Smith 
trip at Tulsa Oklahome. Steltz. are expected to see duty as Hall are the main candidates for
is a good long ball threat at the 
Kline, beginning an un-starters, as will junior Mark the right fielder's chores and both
plate; and possesses one of the best 
precedented fortieth season at the Pittman. returning to varsity are capable at bat and in the field. 
gloves seen at the position in 
helm,,will return a dozen lettermen competition after a year of studies Another versatile performer,
ye~s.
from last year's 14-16 squad. in Innsbruck. Lefty Mike Swallow Lange can also play first base and Captain Bob Roemer leads the and Kevin Fanning round out the JUI.i(>r Dick Nussbaum and Ken pitch, as can starting lfirst-sacker corps of returnees. and the senior crew of mound men available for Schustett-return to their spots in Schmitz. catcher from Dalton. Ill. has his duty on the spring trip. center an'8left field, respectively. The spring schedule features six
Nussbaum s-oored 18 runs while
hopes high for an excellent games 1againstTulsa, a 44-6 club a 
showing. All three .300 hitters of they year manning the !¥doff spot in the year ago, and six more split bet­
ago have departed, and the bats of Irish1order lastyea1'1.and also set a
"We play 46 games this year, ween New Mexico, Oral Roberts
first baseman Joe LaRocca (.352, 
new school record ior fielding,
£'Ieven more than any Notre Dame and Arkansas. All games wilJ
19 RBI'sl and third sacker Rob committing only one ewor in 45
tpam has ever played," says played in Oiler Park, home of the
H.eschan {.329, six homers, 27 chances for a ·stellar .!ml per­
Roemer, who hit .289 during the American Association <AAA>
RBI's l will be specially hard to centage. Schuster comes off a ·269 
Tulsa Oilers.
summer while handling the 
replace. Soph Mark Schmitz, whobackstop duties for his cham­saw sport duty between the out­R~Qnship . Cotuit team in the Cape riPid and the pitcher's mound last n~ (Mass.l Collegiate League. 
vPar. will handle the first
"We't~\looking forward to a good 
CLASSFIED ADS
baseman's chores, and either
showing in· Tulsa that will get us 
basketballer Tom Hansen or
startPd towaros an NCAA berth." 
sophomore Tom Miller will get the The mound crew will be called on nod to open the year at the hot for plenty of action, andiseniors corner. Hick Eich and Mike Riddell will 
SPECIAL NOTICES
Junior Pete Schmidt, who has
handle the bulk of the pitching 
Staff:
played in all but three contest
chores. Eich posted a team­
Thanks for a year of hard work,
throughout his Iwo years of varsity
leading 5-2 record a year ago while 
loog hours and good times. See
l'xperience. will begin his third 
you tonight.
fanning 35 opponents, and the 
year at his third new position, 
JMA
hard-throwing Riddell came on 
second base. The versatile Sch­
strong late in the season to post a 
midt is coming off a' "sophomore 
"Poor Man"
:l.58 ERA allowing only three runs 
jinx" season when he batted 
What can you say about a girl who
in his last 22 innings of duty. 
puts on plays? She's cool.
only.272, compared to his team­
Senior Ed Hrabcsak is a leading .367 of 1971. dPpendable veteran wh<tcan go as 
Kathy
The shorstop duties will go to 
Oklahoma is O.K. but the Motor City is just a shot away. Happy st. Pat's.
Experienced golfers prep 
Your ND-GP D.B. 
Dear Patti . Happy 21st 
Pete
for Southern tournament 
With the return of six lettermen and the addition of an assistant coach. the Notre Dame golf team should be set for one of its best seasons in recent years. 
Noel O'Sullivan, an assistant professor in the Physical I<:ducation Department since 1961, was named to assist Rev. Clarence Durbin by Athletic Director Ed­ward "Mo~e" Krause. A graduate of Notre Dame in 1960, O'Sullivan received his Masters of Education here in 1961. As a student. he lettered his freshman and sophomore years on the track team. He has taught golf in the 
P.E. Dept. for the past nine years. 
The 1973 Irish season opens this \\'l'Pk as the Irish travel to Camp LPjeune. NC for spring practice 
and  the Collegiate  Golf  Tour­ 
nament.  
Three  days  of  practice will  

precede the start of this ::,econd annual tournament. Among the 
1:H universities and colleges participacng in the 54-hole event will be the Universities of Maryland. Virginia and North Carolina. Toughest competition could come from Wake Forest, which has produced such golfing 
Best Man; 
You're on my mind.
stars as Arnold Palmer and Lanny 
Love, Rainbow
Wadkins. 
Making the trip for Notre Dame 
NOTICES 
will be senior and-captain Mike 
THE OMBUDSMAN SERVICE
LaFrance, seniors Chuck Voelket..., 
WILL CLOSE UP SHOP FOR
and Marty Best, junior Paul Betz, 
THE SPRING BREAK ON 
sophomores Mike Kistner and Jeff 
WEDNESDAY MARCH 7 AT S pm. OPERATIONS WILL BE RESUMED ON MONDAY 
Burda, and freshman Jim 
Culveyhouse. 
MARCH 19 AT 9:30 am. 
Last year the Irish were paced by Best. who averaged 77.6 strokes 
Hot line crisis phone Have a problem you'd like to
in his 14 competitive rounds. He 
duscuss anonymously (drugs, bad 
was closely followed in scoring 
trip, family relalions, suicide, contraception. pregnancy, abortion, etc.)? Call this number 
hyBurda. who averaged 77.8 and 
LaFrance and Kistner. both 
282-2323.
aceraging 78.8. Best was named Most Valuable Golfer for the 1972 
Before you buy a diamond learn 
all the facts. It may save you a great deal. Call James 3118. 
team. and Voelker was tabbed 
Most Improved. I<'ollowing the North Carolina 
MEN! WOMEN JOBS ON SHIPS! No experience required. Excellent pay. Worldwide travel.
trip. the Irish travel to the Ten-. 
npssee Invitational at Knoxville on 
Perfect summer job or career.
April 11-13, the Ohio State In­
Send $2.00 tor information. 
SEAFAX. Dept. F-7, P.O. Box 2049, Port Angeles, Washington 
\'itational the 21st and 22nd and the 
1\1 id-American Invitational April 
98362.
:loth at Oxford, Ohio. Their schedule ends in May with the 
Modern Rooms and cottages. 
Many trees and flowers. Michigan Lake, private beach, 
Nrothern Invitational at Indiana 
University and the Notre Dame 
fishing an swimming boats.
Invitational on. May 7th. 
LENGVIN, Guest House . Motel, 
M.P. Legvinas. owner. Phone: 
Area 616-469-0153 Union Pier Lake side Union Pier. Michigan.
ABBEY IS HAPPY 
STUDENTS Wl:iLCOME!! 
CALIFORNIA CLUB SUMMER CHARTER FLIGHT $68.30 NON­STOP SOUTH BEND TO LA . 
to announce our new budget motel in 
South Bend. Lovely rooms at low cost. 
LEAVE 1 pm MAY 16. SIGN UPS· FIRST THREE DAYS 
AFTER SPRING BREAK ONLY. BADIN TRAVEL AGENCY l~ pm MARCH 19. 20, 21. 
$10.00 single $12.50 double 
Friendly happy atmosph~re·· 
Will do typing; Themes, 
manuscripts, etc. Call: 233-6909.
Send your friends and relatives 
@ 

FOR INFORMATION ABOUT GAY AWARENESS COM· 
ABBEY INNS OF AMERICA 
52825 U.S. 31 N 
MUNITY, CALL 7789 W-Th-, 8-10
South Bend, Indiana 46637 
pm.
(219) 272-9000 <next to the Boars Head) 
Experienced Typist Theses, term papers, essays etc. Margaret Gloster 289-6581. 
Need money tor Spring Break? Borrow $20 to $150 from Morrissey Loan Fund. Monday-Friday
says 

11:15-12:15. Basement of LaFortune. 
When it comes to pianos. w. will 
Volunteers interested in par­
do just about anything. , 
ticipating in a weekend encounter
If we can't do It, M willtryto find 
groups rsat: 9am-l0pm & Sun: 9 am 5 pml. This is part of a research project on small groups conducted under the auspices of 
someone who does. 
Call me now for an 
the Dept. of Educ. You may choose one of four weekends:
appointment 674-9335 
Mar. 24-25, Mar. 31-Apr. 1. Apr. 7­8, Apr. 14-15. For details call 6494 (9 am-1 am). 

''Piano Pete'' 
Prision inmate would like pen-pal. Please write to Gerry William~ 134 912. P.O. Box 69, London. Onic 
Osceola, lncllafto 

~3140. 
Ferrante & Teicher in concert a; 
Morris Civic, this Sunday af. ternoon at 3:00pm.
Quality Tuning and Repairing 
RIDES WANTED 
Ride needed to Detroit (Grosse Pointe) or East on Ohio Turnpike to Exit 5 (Toledo). Can leave Thursday Will share driving and $$5' please call Pete. at 8253. 
I'm desperate! Need ride to St. Louis March 8 or 9. Will payS$. Call Gray 1774. 
Desperately need ride to Stam­ford, Connecticut or vicinity for Spring Break. Please call Dave 283-1441. 
2 girls need ride to Chicago March 9. Call 5246 or 5422. 
Need ride to Boston. Can leave March 8 or 9. Call Mike 1869. 
Need ride to Cleveland can leave anytime Thursday, March B. Call Greg 1336. 
Need ride to Lauderdale, 
Hollywood or Miami. $$, Ken 
3679. 
Two guys desperately need ride to Miami on Mar 7. Will share driving and expenses. Call Pete 8810. Please give us a break. 
Ride wanted: To Little Rock, Ark 
or anywhere within a 200 mi. radius. Can leave Thurs PM. Will share expenses. Call 3444. 
Need ride to NYC or DC. Will leave anytime Desperate. Desperate. 8950. 
Destination . Philadelphia. Will take rides to Washington. New Jersey, New York or anywhere in Pennsylvania. Share expenses & driving. Call 8731. 
Rider .needed . Florida Call 6732. 
Help! Ride needed to Wash. DC. Spring break. Liz 4608. 
Wanted: a ride to Birmingham or Detroit. Can leave Friday after noon. Please call 5185 or 5719. Thanks. 
Need ride to Omaha. Call 288­3327. 
Need Ride to Pittsburgh (exit 2) call Jack 3200 
Need ride to Conn. Hartford Area Call Albert 8040 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost: four keys on a small silver band with black leather camero rncdalian attached. Call Steve, 
1059. 
Y Pl'nS found in Regina South lounge 3-6-73. Call Mrs. Holmes 4982 (after midnight). 
FOR SALE 
1966 VW Beetle, sunroof. good mechanical and appearance. $575, call 284-4063 or 272-5257. 
1971 Honda CB 350, green, green, low mileage. Lloyd Cbem 146, 7733. 
For Sale Acoustic brand am­plifier,one piece, best offer. Call 234-4547 after 7 pm. 
1971 Dodge Dart V 8 318 2 dr White. $1650.332 3560 
WANTED 
Wanted good floor seats tor Beach Boys. Call Chuck 8540. 
Typing experienced in disser. lations. essays. term papers. Arlene Spitz 232-9061. 
FOR RENT 
Available lor September, two, three. lour and six bedroom homes. Call Mr. Hambarger-234· 9364. 
• 
... 
• 



.. 
" 
t • 
~ 

Seven players score in 8-3 romp over~ Sioux; ND wins series, 13-3 
by Jim Donaldson was really a 7-0 game and a team Sports Editor isn't quite as sharp then as when it's in a 3-2 game."
Noire Dame's line of Pat Conroy, AI the outset. it looked like the
Hie Schafer. and Jim Augustine is supposed lo he a "checking line." 
Irish would dispel what little Thai lcrm cmphasizes defense but 
suspense remained about the il ought to mean Ihat the opposition 
outcome of the series, jumping out should bc chccking on them con­
to a 2-0 lead in less than seven minutes.
slantlv. 
Tu(;sday night, while North Schafer started Notre Dame's Dakota concentrated on first scoring play. 
outhustling
stopping a l'oliPgial(' hockey's highest scoring Dakota defenseman to the puck trio of .John Noble, Eddie Bum­
along the right boards in the Sioux hacco and Ian Williams, Conroy's zone and passing in front of the "ehPcking Iine"showed they could net. The pass was deflected but seOJ'('. too. accounting for four 
Conroy picked it up in the slot and goals as the Irish trounced the let go a wrist shot that caromed off Sioux. H-:1. 
a Sioux defender and slithered Coupled with 1\Jonday's I 5-0 into lhe lower right corner of the triumph. llw win gave the Irish a 
net Ia t 4:45. 

t:l :1 margin of victory in their .Just over two minutes later, at lwo-ganw. lolal-goals series with ..
6:46. Israelson upped the Irish 
Nor! h Dakota and enabled Notre advantage. Outracing Sioux goalie Dam(• lo move into the final round 
Dave Murphy to Paul Regan's of 1)1(' WC'HA playoffs. 
dump pass. Israelson skated ~,/,-~ "If sonwbody concentrates on around the Pmbarrassed net­Noh)(>s line." Irish coach "Lefty" mt>ndpr and slid the puck from the ~ 
far left ir.to an en).pty cagc.
Smith said, "the other lines pil'k up the slack. When Conroy's 1 he Sioux kept things interesting lirw fOI'(•checks. it's a good scoring whl'n. after finally breaking 
Pard Regan (left) and Larry Israelson put the pressure on North Dakota .~oa/ie Dai'C' Murphy.
linl'." through lhl' Irish dPfense)at 8:42, they surgPd into a 3-2 lead. I he slot hit the Jpg of an Irish it'll probably be Notre Dame. [)anw two WPPks ago and to prove
No orw could dispute Smith's 
dPfPnscman and Wl'nt into the net. l'<•rsonally. I'm looking forward to lhatllwv. not the Irish. deserved tostall'llH'nls aftpr last night's game. An Irish miscue paved the way 
SchafPr had two goals, ('onro~•. for lhp first goal to be scored on That was all I he scoring North pla~·ing Ihem." finish si•cond in the WCHA. stit·khandling ·and passing as well Kronholm in almost six periods. Dakota was lo do. however. The Tlw Badgcrs art' seeking to Fac<'off Friday and Saturday as ht< had all sPa son. picked uo one Cross picked up a loose puck Sioux managed to retain their :3-2 a\'Pnge a pair of deff\ats at Notre nights ;ll tlw ,\('('will he at 7:30. 
Pdge for the remainder of the first
and Augustinc tallicd hrs ltr:;t Irish that should have been cleared 
period and l\:08 of the second of the 
goal. hPhind lhc Notre Dame net and 
sPcond session hl'fon• Hegan put in
"WP didn't do anything different passPd lo Mike Lundby, alone in 
a backhander from the left
tonight." ('on roy said. front. who easily poked it in. 
facpoff eircle.

"l<:\'!•rylhing started to click and Once lhe Sioux· found/the net, 
The Irish Eye
tlw puck just happened to go in. they quickly startl'd to atone for DeLorenzi scored what proved to 
Paul Hegan. Ray DeLorenze. missed opportunities. North lw the game-deciding goal shortly Larrv Israelson and Noble also put Dakota t it'd the score at 10:07 when llwreaflcr. Blocking a shot just the ,;uck in for the Irish, who had Earl Anderson capped a three­outside the Sioux blue line, the no prohlem adding to the five-goal on-two]break. Larry Drader made "Hawk" swooped in on the puck 
When Boston University played Boston College in the finals of the
lt>ad thcv carried into the game. a perfect pass[from the left wing to along the right boards, tlt>W in BPanpot Tournament --Boston's much-ballyhooed version of a cityPlaying their fourth game in five Anderson. on the right side, who a lone and fired a hard shot by championship ---over 15,000 hockey fans jammed into the Bostondavs. the Irish weren't at their pushed the puck underneath a Murphy's stick side at 10:52. 
(;arden
lll'si last night. But they didn't sliding Kronholm. 
The Irish added another geal 
When When Notre Dame played its first-ever home-ice playoff serieshavP to be. As Smith explained, Fortv-six seconds later, AI 
hcfore lhl' end of the period, with 
Monday and Tuesday night at the ACC, "crowds" of 3.475 and 3,642looked
"You have to remember that after IIPnry 'gave the Sioux their only 
an assist from Murphy. When on. 
wc scored our first two goals, it lead of the gamt>1when his shotfrom 
Schafer's slapper at 18:46 blew in 
Coach "Lefty" Smith and his Irish hockey players must be wondering on him. Murphy managed to l'alch 
just what they have to do to attract a crowd. it momPntarily with his glove, but 
DPspite winning 16 out of their last 19 WCHA games and garnering 18 of 
lhcn dropped it inside the goal line. 
Netmen head South 
tlw last 20 Iitle points to snatch second place away from Wisconsin on the There was no doubt about the last day of lhc regular season. the Irish were cheered on by only mediocre 
Thl' Notre Dame tennis team will spring trip. "Mf'fnphis State is final result of the series in the third l'rowds in lheir.-;wpppof North Dakota 1\londay and Tuesday nights. !wad South t.his Saturday to begin alwa~·s loug)l. and we will be pPriod but Notre Dame wanted to Eastern schools can draw 15,000 for what amounts to a city title, its 1\l/:l outdoor season. Thomas playing •hem under the lights." lock up its victory and did so. Wisconsin packs in capacity crowds of 8,000-plus (or every home game it Fallonhcginning his 16t9 season as Fallon said. Tulane and LSU will , putting three more shots past the plays. hut Noire Dame can't even get a full-house for the WCHA playoffs. Irish coach. feels that he can provide Notre Dame with stiff tests hl'icagured Murphy. \\'hat's that business about "Notre Dame spirit?" rPplacP last year's top three-­back-lo-back on March 12 and 13. AfiPr beating Duluth last Saturday night to secure home-ice advantage
Noble made the score 6-2 while
Bustpr Brown. John Allare and for llw elwmpionship playoff series, the Irish players PagPrlyanticipated
Thc Southern tour will conclude tlw Irish wPre on a power playl\1 ike HPilly--with a returning with lhP 16-team Old Gold Tour­pla~·ing in front of a large, enthusiastic home crowd. They were
carlv in the final se!"sion, taking a
,·etcran. a football player and a disappointed.
namPnt at Hattiesburg, Miss. on pass from Williams: behin~lthe net.
brother. !\larch 16-17. The Irish will return Mid-lcrm Pxams and the proximity of "spring" vacation were most
and beating Murphy with a hard
"Hight now.lhe outlook is fn•qupnlly Pspoused as factors behind the sub-par playoff attendence.
to South Bend at the conclusion of 
wrist shot from the left faceoff
prctly good." Fallon said. "I am the tournament and begin Those have to be accepted as legitimate reasons for missing a hockey
circle at 5:18.

fairly optimistic. It appears that prcparations for their March 31 gamP. but the absence of so many fans didn't do much to spurthe Irish in IH' will have the same strength as visit lo Wisconsin. Another wrist shot -this one off thcir bid for I he national championship, now only four games away. last sl'<tson." (16-3 record and first Schafer's stick -eluded Murphy at 
"This was the biggest series of the
placl' in I he Huskie Tournament). 10:07 and Augustine notched his \Par and the students didn't even come out to see it." one' Irish playerFallon is basing his optimism on NIT tickets l'irsl goal and the last of the series rPmarked last night.
t lw pcrformance of sophomore onlv 28 seconds later, poking the Tlw loyal fans that were in attendance. aided by the Notre Dame Band,Chris Kanc. Kane. a 6-0 150-pound puck under Murphy after the Sioux which addcd a lively. new dimension to Irish hockey in its first ap­IPtl(•r winr1Pr from Rancho Santa goalil' had stopped short range
go on sale 
]l('arancl' at a game. camP close to making up in volume what they lacked 
is listl'd number by shots by Conroy and Schafer.
FP. ('a . one in numbct·s. When they cheered. it sounded almost like a sellout. And 
~·a lion in singles. Last season, lw Student tickets for the National Notre Dame's array of scorers sill('(' thcrc \\'('re virtuaily no North Dakota rooters in the arena, the Irish 
\\'ClS S('\'l'nth. Invitational Tournament in New had North Dakota's downhearted didn't suffpr anv. · Kane will bl' joined by Rich York's Madison Square Garden coach. Hube Bjorkman. shaking But lhc situation will be differPnt this coming weekend, unless NotreSlagt•r in the number-one doubles. will go aaaaon sale at the ACC. 
his hPad afterwards. • Danw fans start buying tickets. 
SlagPr. a :i-11. IIWI pound freshman starting Thursday the Notre Although the Irish will be playing on their own ice, it may seem like a
''Noire Dame has some prolific
I rom Columbus. U .. plays on the Dame ticket office announced home game for Notre Dame's probable final-round opponent, theloolhall lt>am in the fall· He won Tuesday. The Irish will play their scorers." he said. "They play Wisconsin Badgers.
lh!' Ohio state singles ·cham­first game on St. Patricks af­good defense, too. They're a very A good many people were upset a couple of weeks ago when close topronship his last two years in 'high t(•rnoon. Saturday, March 17, good hockp:· team." 
1.000 Badgers fans -many of 11 homwere drunk and unruly; all of whom 
schnnl "Slagpr looks like he will with the tipoff time and opponents 
The Irish will find out just how 
were loud-obtained tickets fer the Wisconsin-Notre Dame series at the
ddir.itel~· help." Fallon saidr to be announced. 
good they are this weekend, when 
ACC. Only an unusually vocal Irish crowd prevented the ACC from"('urrPnllv. hp is number one in Scats regularly selling at $8.50 lhPv host the finals of the WCHA resembling the Dane County Coliseum, at least in tone. 
doubles ,,:ilh Kane and he should 
and $6.00 may be purchased by pla~·off. also a two-game. This weekend, the ACC'promises to be chock-full of rabid Wisconsinh!' in tlw lnJ> thrl'l' 'of the singles 
total-goals affair. Notre Dame's
sludPnts for $2.50 each at Gate 10 of fans. As Irish co-captain Paul Regan put it, "I'm afraid to think of whatdivision bt>fon• we go South." 
between opponent is as yet undetermined Tlwrc'll
the Convo. 9 a.m. and the next series will be like. probably be Wisconsinl\ltkP HPillv will be the number ­
5 p.m.] Only one ticket may be hut. unless Minnesota-Duluth pulls people aU over the place."
tlm•p man in singles. A transfer purchased per person and student off a major upset at Denver. the Notre Dame's horne-ice advantage will han• bPen' effectivelystudent from Biscayne after his 
Irish will probably meet
!D's mw;t be presented at the time nullified. NuUufied by the bery thing that one could hardly have ex­tn•shman yPar. Heilly is beginning Wisconsin.
of purchase and at the Garden, too. pected -a lack of spirit.
1n pick up wherc his !~rother,Mike 
Tlw Badgers reached the finals The Irish hockey team is four games away frorn the national cham­1 :'\I> ·n. 12-6 last vearl, left off. Beginning Friday. March 16, and pionship and the "best fans in the country". are running out on them.
Brandon Walsh. ·.John Carrico. continuing as long as Notre Dame hv defeating Minnesota in 1\iadison. 1!-6 and 6-4. In other "I realize that mid-terms are going on and that break begins Friday,"captain Hob Schcfter. and another advances in the tourney, a Notre lcagul' playoff action, Michigan Irish coach "Lefty" Smith said, "But I'd like to see a full house thisHl'illv. Paul. give the Iri\h much I>amc Ticket Office will be wcekend. Full of Notre Dame fans, that is."
dPplli al singles. Pstablished at the Essex House Tech outscored Michigan State 8­"Our whole season is wrapped up in the weekend series. We need all
In addition to the Kane-Siager llotcl. 59th Street and Central Park :l in their series in East Lansing. 
the moral support we can get."
duo. the othl'r doubles com­South in New York City. (phone The Huskies were 3-1 losers Tul'sday but the playoff "W('re read~·." Regan said. "We'll be up, but we could have a great
won

binations appear lo be the Reilly 247-0:loo l. Students desiring tickets scene lhPre to finish off the season."
lwoth<•rs in the number-two slot 111 thP Notre Dame section may call hl'cause of their 7-2 romp over the The Irish hardly deserve such shabby treatment from their own;111d Carrico-Walsh at number [)on Bouffard's room at the Essex Spartans Monday night. 
"fans." It's ialmost a certainty that Wisconsin rooters will snatch up
thn•P. S\'heftpr might see actiaf\ Ilousl'. Tickets will be available Aftpr his club's sweep of Min­<·very available seat for the series. They appreciate their team.
hPn' as the 1swing man. for the first and and subsequent Wisconsin coach Bob
ncsola. 

If ~·ou're going to be on campus Friday, stay and watch the game thatTlw Irish will meet..-memphis tournl'y. gaml's in which the Irish .lohnson "It's
n•marked not 
night. And if at all possible, watch the Irish play Saturday, too. YouStat(• this Saturday tl""ffegin their participaiP dd'inite who we'llplay yet. but won't regret il. 






