
On The Inside 
Gynecologist con­troversy...page S 
C.O.U.P. findings. .pages 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VII No. 70 Wednesday, January 31, 1973 
HPC hears food Facce:f!da to chair 
comm1ttee lorsale control plan student relocation 
by .Tim Eder Staff Reporter 
The Committee on Unorthodox Privateering (C.O.U.P.) has found that the two greatest areas of student concern over the matter of food sales are the lack of information about their methods of operation and the high prices that they set. 
Speaking before last night's Hall Presidents Council meeting, C.O.U.P. Chairman Mike Hess read a list of recommendations for the improvement of food sales based on the comment received 
from a questionaire given to the students last fall. The questions that appeared most often among the student comments deal with how food sales managers are chosen. how the profits are distributed and how the prices are set. 
In order to answer such questions and to "dear up any suspicion that may exist in the minds of the students." Hess released the following recommendations made by the committee: 
1) If any hall has not yet done so this vear. it should make a report to its hall 
riwmber~. through its hall council or other means. on the method of food saleF operation as well as the method of selecting the students who own the food sales concession. 
21 Prior to the awarding of the concession. the hall council should decide upon a general method of operation, and then should let the residents know this information. as well as giving the rf'sidents general idea of how much can be made by those who run food sales. 
:ll After a concession is awarded, the hall should request of the owners of t~e concession a monthly statement of Its • operations. and these findi~gs s~o~ld be publicized on a regular basis withm the hall. If a hall has any reason to believe that the finances of its food sales are not being handled correctly, the hall an? its members can obtain independent audits of the pertinent records via any of a number of business students who can conduct an audit. 
4) If it does not already have one, each hall should establish a systematic ac­counting procecure for its food sales in order to facilitate an audit .inthe event one is ever requested. 
:i) A contract should be drawn up between the hall and the managers of food sales on the hall level. Provisions should be made for review of the contract during the semester to settle any unforseen pooblems that might develop. . Such a clause would protect both parties. 
The second major area investigated by the C.O.U.P. was the complaint that in manv halls food sales are overpriced for the ciuality received. "It does not take an extremely business-oriented mind to realize that volume buying results in lower prices for the purchaser," r~asoned Hess. "II is apparent that the vanous hall stock pretty much the same items. It seems that if they would do their buying through a central purchaser. their wholesale ex­penses would he less and, the cost of these items could be reduced in the individual food sales without any decreased profits for the managers of the halls." 
With this motive in mind, the C.O.U.P. has constructed the following plan: 
l) All individual concessions for in­dividual items sold to food sales (e.g. the doughnut concession) should be ended. 
21 A central purchasing office should be set up which would buy all necessary items for individual food sales. 
:l1 The purchasing office would be headed by a student appointed by the Hall Presidents Council and salaried from the Student Government Fund. The office would be non-profit. 
4) The purchaser should work closely with the HPC and the Student Government Treasurer. and should be required to make periodic reports to them. . 
:i )The purchaser should be some~ne m good standing in the College of Busmess, and. ideally, someone with experience of the food sales level. 
!il Because of the newness of such a procedure. a three-month trial set-up should be established, with the results being reviewed after the end of that period. 
il If at all possible. this procedure should be initiated this spring. However, it is quite conceivable that complications might occur. in such case. we recommend these plans go into effect no later than the start of the Fall Term, 1973. 
The Hall presidents Council has the full responsibility of impeementing these proposals. "The C.O.U.P.," said Hess, "will not seek to force anyone to accept these recommendations in the event that they are rejected by the HPC." 
"We hope that our proposals will be given much consideration,"He told the presidents. "and that you will bring them before vour hall council meetings for discussion. We are counting on the HPC to take the initiative in investigating the fea sibilitv of these recommendations." 
Chris Singleton. president of Farley 
Hall, suggested that a meeting be arranged 
bet~·een representatives of the C.O.U.P.' 
members fo the HPC and current food 
sales managers to analyze the com­
mittee's report. "The people in charge of 
the food sales now are the ones who can 
best evaluate these proposals, not the 
presidents." 
Kevin Griffin. president of Grace Hall, 
expressed his disa!Jt-~roval of the proposal 
to establish a central purchasing office. 
·'The amount of money saved by volume 
purchasing isn't worth all the trouble that 
will be involved in coordinating the 
operation," he asserter. "If we do start a 
purchasing office, however, I think that its 
salary should be provided by the food sales 
profits. not the Student Government 
Fund." 
Hess pointed out that the problem of food 
sales is only one of the areas to be in­
vestigated by the C.O.U.P. Subsequent 
reports. to be realeased in the next week or 
so. will deal with such areas as Student 
Government Funds, Student Union ticket 
sales for concerts, the Observer, and a 
number of other matters of student con­
cern. 
ln other matters of business. HPC 
Chairman Butch Ward announced that the 
nomination and election for a successor to 
his post will be held at next week's 
meeting. 
The quality of campus security will also 
be a major topic discussed by the 
presidents. next Tuesday. Ward, who is 
(continued on pa.ge 3) 


Butch Ward: "Campus security seems to think that a felony is parking you car in the wrong lot." 
by .Tames Rosini Staff Reporter 

Dr. Philip Faccenda, Notre Dame Acting Vice President for Student Affairs, will chair a committee to formulate plans for relocating Farley and Breen-Phillips students. 
The committee, to meet for the first time this Friday, will be composed of select SLC members,rectors, and hall presidents. 
Fr. James Reihle. Dean of Students and a member of the committee, hopes that plans will be finalized by March 9 so that students can discuss their situation with parents over the spring break. 
Reihle would not speculate as to the number of students that will be forced off campus but the indicated that each hall would have its quota of students that must move. 
In the past. students were selected to live off campus on the basis of their grade point average. Reihje speculated that this year each in­dividual hall will choose its own method, which will in most cases be a lottery. _ 
Fr. Andy Ciferni, Holy Cross Rector and a member of Facenda's committee. said he favors women's halls being chosen one year in ad­vance. The hall selected would house seniors in the interim. 
Ciferni also feels that the women's hall for next year should be an­nounced now so that those students in Farley and Breen-Phillips who previously lived in Badin or Walsh would not have to move next year for a third time. 
Ciferni said he is not in favor of a campus-wide lottery and he suggested that each hall handle the problem individually. 
Recently, Farley and Breen-Phillips residents voiced their discontent about the administration's decision not to force female students off campus also. 
Fr. James Shilts, Rector of Farley Hall and a member of the com­mittee. defended the administration;s decision in this way, "If it is a matter of making the campus coed, we must make the ratio on campus as favorable as possible." 
Reihle stated what might be the only good news for Farley and Breen­Phillips residents--the administration will try to uphold its first decision that no student from either of these dorms will be forced to move off campus. 
There are 5,100 beds available on campus and approximately 6,800 students in attendance at the University. With the 308 women presently on campus and the acceptance of 350 freshmen and 125 transfer students next year, the total female population on campus will be approximately '781 since there are no senior women on campus now. 
Reihle projects that Farley and Breen-Phillips combined will house 450 women instead of the current 473 men. 
Osborne supports collective bargaining 
by Jim Gresser Staff Reporter 
Mr. Woodley B. Osborne, Director of Collective Bargaining for the American Association of University Professors. cited the decreasing importance of the faculty in University governace as one of the main reasons for the establishment of collective bargaining between faculty and administration. 
Osborne, addressing a crowd of about 150 people from ND, SMC and IUSB at the University Club last night, said that if the faculty was "careful" a collective bargaining agent could be utilized without the damaging "side ef­fects" of unionism. 
In a press conference before the meeting, Osborne said that, although collective bargaining should be undertaken "only after careful thought and con­sideration ... it can be looked upon as "the formalization of the con­cept of shared responsibility." 
At the meeting, Osborne gave a brief description of what collective bargaining entailed and then opened the floor to discussion. 
Business Prof. John Houck questioned the need for collective bargaining at Notre Dame. He said that there was adequate academic freedom, and a tenure system. He added that the Notre Dame faculty manual was one "in which the words are good," but, citing the lack of adherence, added 


.b~~i~i~Ui,
that "occaisionally the music is missing." can be seen as "the formalization of the concept of shared respon­
(continued on page 3) sibility." 





warld briefs 
{C) 1913 New Yorlt Tfme• 
Saigon --Vice President Agnew arrived in Saigon for discussions with President Nguyen Van Thieu on postwar relations between the United States and South Vietnam. In a brief statement, Agnew said the United States looked forward "to working with the people and the government of South Vietnam as partners in peace as we have been allies in war." 
Washington --President Nixon's economic report to Congress disclosed that the government wants and expects the economy's rapid expansion to begin slowing. after midyear. The President, in his briefing message accompanying the Annual Report of his Council of Economic Advisers, told Congress that the main economic problem from now on "will be to prevent this expansion from becoming an inflationary boom." 
Washington --Two former officials of President Nixon's political organization were convinced of plotting to spy on the Democrats during last year's campaign. A jury of eight women and four men deliberated less than 90 minutes before returning guilty verdicts against the two defendants, G. Gordon Liddy and James W. McCord Jr., who were convicted on charges of conspiracy, second degree burglary and eavesdropping. Liddy could receive a maximum prison term of 35 years, and McCord could receive a 45-year term. 
an campu• taday 
12:15 p.m.--seminar, exogenous factors aLtering carcingoen metabolizing sytems, dr. I. w. wattenberg, room 102, lobund laboratory, galvin life science center 
3:30 p.m.--colloquim, problems in energy supply, dr. john w. Iucey, m.d., room 303, engineering building 
7:30 
p.m.--lecture, american scene series, myths we live by, dr. cyriac pullapilly, carroll hall, madeleva, smc 

7:30 
p.m.--meeting, nd amateur radio club, club house behind holy cross hall 




at nd-•mc 





"ONCE A KING IS FOREVER BUT ONCE .A KNIGHT IN NASSAU IS ENOUGH" 
K. M., Nassau Trip 1972

AAUP reviews Lewis case 
by Jim Gresser "promptly report back to the Graduate Student Union, was also 
Come Down With Us To Sunny

Staff Reporter chapter concerning the conformity present at the meeting and ex­The Lewis Hall parietals case of these procedures to the stan­pressed gratitude that the AAUP 
Nassau. 

will be examined by a committee dards of due process set forth in was going to investigate the case. 
of the Notre Dame chapter of the the AAUP-USNSA joint statement The GSU is conducting its own American Association of on the rights and responsibilities of investigation regarding graduate 
Sign up in La Fortune 3rd floor 

University Professors. The students." grievance procedure and Wessels chapter passed almost According to Prof. Paul Rath-added that "we need some unammously a resolutwn to ap­burn. prestdent of the local .strength." point a committee to review the chapter, the committee will be The Advanced Student Affairs 
administrative procedures appointed by this Friday. Committee of the GSU is currently 

Mardi Gras "Kickoff Party"

followed in the disposition of the The case involves the forced working with the administration to case. withdrawal from Notre Dame of a fomulate the graduate grievance 
A Beer Bash With Live Rock

The resolution, initiated hy female graduate student for an procedure. Wessels said that both Philosophy Prof. Ed Manier, alleged parietal violation. sides were "still haggling" but requires that the committee Ken Wessels, president of the said that some progress was being 
made. 
Friday, Feb. 2, 1973 
"Our main prerogative," 
8:30 pm -12:30 $5 per couple

Regents to Vote On hours Wessels s~id, "is to.have students 
on a hearmg commtttee." 
Indiana National Guard Armory 

Pattie Cooney College, September 1969." 
The Observer is published -daily

Staff Reporter The Student Affairs Council 
during the college semester ex­

unanimously passed the plan on 
cept vacations by the students of 
Tickets Available at Student Union 
the L'niversity of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions 

Saint Mary's Board of Regents Jan. 19. If the resolution is ap­
Ticket Office

will vote on the acceptance of self proved by the Board of Regents, it 
may be purchesed for $8 per

responsible hours for freshmen will go into effect as soon as each 
semester ( 14 per year) from the 
Dining Halls (Tues, Wed, Thurs)
Observer, F-ox Q, Notre Dame, 1ndiana 46556. Second class 

this weekend. Currently freshmen freshman has parental permission. 
must be in by midnight on week Last year's freshman class 
postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind.

nights and in by 2:00 a.m. on researched the effects of the policy 
Free Bus Service Provided
46556. 

Friday and Saturday nights. on last year's frosh class. "The 
The proposal before the Board results of the report indicated no is: "Should the parents so specify prohibitive reasons for not ex­in writing, second semester fresh-tending the self-responsible hours men may exercise the 'self to second semester freshmen." responsible' hours policy as explained Kay Thomas, chairman promulgated by the Student Af-of the task force on freshmen fairs Council of Saint Mary's hours. RJIJIIIIIIIIUIIDIIIIIIIImtntnDIDIIUIIIIIDIIIIIIIHDDDDDRIIImRIIIIHIIIUIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIUIIIU 
Schedule for Coex Tickets 
Alumni-.Zahm Feb. 1 Lyons-Grace Feb. 2 Pangborn-Fianner Feb. 3 Fisher-Farley Feb. 4 Cavanaugh-Sorin Feb. 5 St. Eds-Breen Phillips Feb. 6 Morrissey-Holy Cross Feb. 7 Flanner-Badin Feb. 8 Grace-Walsh Feb. 9 Howard-Keenan Feb. 10 Stanford-Di lion Feb. 11 
IIIIIIIIIIUIIIIHUIHIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIHUNINWUWWUiliDUUUIIIII wmmuumUUUJUIIUIU11118 
Friday, February 9 at 8:00 Some good bleachers remaining at $3.00 in Student Union and ACC Ticket Offices 
...presented by Student Union... 



WHERE IT'S AT ... 

ON THE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAME 

Mid-Winter 
I 

Savings Event! 
Savings at 




on a great selection of the latest apparel 
It's all here ... the savings and the apparel. ..doubleknit suits, sport coats, sweaters, shirts, slacks, jackets, CPO's, suburban coats, Robert Bruce's famous Bike Stuff and much, much more. Stop by ... see it all. Use your Gilbert Account and pay next summer (with no carrying charge added). 

by Bill Sohn Staff Reporter 
Notre Dame needs a part time gynecologist. according to Judy Snyder. president of the Women's Hights Association of the Notre Dame Law School, in a letter to Assistant Vice-President for Student Affairs. Fr. James Shilts. 
ln the letter. Snyder said she called the Notre Dame Infirmary in hopes of securing the services of a gynecologist. She then "received the names of several doctors who had allegedly agreed to provide gynl'cological services for Notre Daml' students. I was forced to call a second time to recieve ad­ditional names. On neither oc­t•asion did anyone at the infirmary offer to help me in my attempt to obtain medical care." 
ln calling the doctors Snyder identified herself as a Notre Dame student and explained she had 

Collective 

Women appeal to Shilts 
steps 
·She 
made available to the women of Notre Dame or the University must take the responsibility for threatening the lives of its women students by permitting the l'Xistence of inadequate health care which is creating a legitimately dangerous situation." 
In response to an Observer inquiry about the letter Shilts issued a one page statement. He said. 
"A student who wants the ser­\'ices of a specialist or who needs these services in the opinion of the Infirmary physician can obtain an appointment within 48-hours. 
This promise is made by the physician because of their good personal relationships with local physicians. It is necessary that a £'arlv appointment on his or her 

own· will probably get no further tha~ a receptionist." 
been referred by the infirmary. She reported "Out of the entire list 1 could not get one appointment within a period of several days from the time of my call." 
Snvder went on the state "With the advent of co-education, it is incumbent upon the University to provide proper medical services for the women of Notre Dame-­services which have been denied the graduate women for years." 
She added that care is especially important for the undergraduate women who "must face for the first time the special physical problems and illnesses incident to bl'ing a woman." 
As to a solution. Snyder said, 
"The ideal solution would be for 
the University to retain a local 
gynecologist who would be 
available at the Infirmary on a 
regular basis--perhaps two morn­
ings a week. Or. as a poor second 
choice. the University must take 
•

bargaining_ lS 

seen as a ·professional .move 
(continued from page one) 
Dr. Robert Fiorindo of the Biology Department urged "at least consideration" of the possibility of collective bargaining and cited four supportive reasons. First. there is a tenure quota system which has created a sort of "closed shop" and lessened faculty morale. Secondly, the limit of 12 eontact teaching hours was set with out faculty consultation. 
Thirdly, there is a rumor of no raises in the Colleges of Engineering and Science which the administration refuses to discuss. Lastly. under the current system, a man can be passed for tenure by his department and his college and then. without being told why, the administration "can bump you off." 
Osborne stated that if the faculty adopted collective bargaining, the administation. under the National Labor RPlations Act. would have the "legal obligation" to bargain with the faculy on any matter that would come under the heading of "terms and conditions of em­ployment." 
Osborne added that collective bargaining need not make.· the faculty lose its professionalism because if a faculty is really professional before collective bargaining there is no reason to expect an "overnight" change. "The answer lies in how the faculty uses collective bargaining." 
Osborne stated that as far as faculty participation in governace, their "shared authority has become less real. more imagined." 
He said that under collective 
bargaining "both sides can hear 
out the other and must hear out the 
other." 
Osborne stressed the fact that 
eollective bagaining would not 
take away form the power of the 
Faculty Senate but actually 
enhance it. 
In order to establish a collective bargaining agent. 30 percent of the faculty must appeal to the National Labor Relations Board to organize an election. If collective bargaining passed in that election, another election would decide who the Collective Bargaining agent would be. Those possibilities in­clude the local chapters of the AAUP. American Federation of 
Teachers.  and  the  National  
Education  Assuciation  and  the  
Faculty snenate.  

Prof. Paul Rathburn, president of the local AAUP chapter, said at !he press conference that Osborn was brought to Notre Dame to i11form the faculty of a "con­ceivable a venue" in solving faculty problems. He later added that "to take a stand would be obviously premature." 
During the day, Osborne met with University President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh but the details of that meeting were not revealed. 

Jazz at nine to present concert Thursday at LaFortune center 
On '1 hursday, Feb. 1st the "Jazz According to Father Wiskirchen, at Nine" series will resume with a Director of the Notre Dame Jazz eoncert in the main lounge of the Band. "the Combo is coalescing LaFortune Student Center. beautifully in the area of group 
The first program of this interaction and unifying the in­semester's activities will feature dividual jazz talents for musical the NDJB Combo in a varied impact." presentation of small group jazz Two new members of the Combo qorks highlighting the im­will be making their first ap­provisational skills of the mem­pearance at the Thursday evening bers of the group. concert. Charles Rohrs will join 
Campus security poor 
(continued from page one) 
presidentof Alumni Hall. the scene of a recent armen robbery. quipped that "campus security seems to think that a felony is parking your car in the wrong lot." Campus Security Director Arthur Pears may be 
invited to the meetil)g, and a few of the presidents have formed acommittee to investigate the failures of campus security. 
Bob Maykuth, Student Govern­ment Research and Development Commissioner, asked the President tq consider a proposal recently make by Student Body Provost Dennis <H-manl Entienne 
to  change  the  name  of  Student  
Government  to  Student  
Association.  'Since  we  really  

aren't a governing body," said Maykuth. "association is a better 
term." 

NASSAU TICKET OFFICE HOURS 
11:30 -12:30 Every Morning 3:00-4:45 Mon., Tues, Wed. 
1:00-3:00 Thurs. Afternoon Located in La Fortune -3rd Floor 
Sign up at these times for Nassau 
• 
the goup on tenor sax while Juan Hivera will sing the blues and play conga. 
Other members of the group include Nick Talarico on trom­bone. Jeff Noonan and Bob Guerra on guitars, John Yakacki on piano, Mike Nicherson on bass and Mike Kendall on drums. 
Included on the program will be John Coltrane's "Tunji", Nick Talarico's "Sunflower", blues standards "Kansas City" and "God Bless the Child" and another experiement in spontaneous in­terfeeding. 
The next event in "Jazz at Nine" will be a lecture on the "Art of Duke Ellington" on Thursday, February 8th. There is no ad­mission charge for the combo eoncert at 9:00 PM on Thursday. 

:~:V&"A===~============::=====:::::::::=====~:::;=======:===========================================:==========*=====~============~======~"~"S:M!N:====~;:;;,:;:~E:t;=~=l±G=='li:':i:!:!:!:A!==·=:~:=~*~N~==:..o::==«::.::::.===========~~: 
~
I 
.:·· 
I@ ~:~! 
N 


~~i~ 
rr 
l ....., ...... ~.. ,...w-... 
again the recommendation that a full or part time gynecologist's services be available on campus." 
~ BOAC's EUROPE! 18 Days, May 21-June 8 only $180.00, Round Trip CHICAGO-LONDON-CHICAGO Sign-ups at Travel Bureau 

Sign-up Deadline: FEB. 2 

----------------------------J 
ABBEY IS HAPPY to announce our ne~ budget motel in South Bend. l.ovely rooms at low cost. $10.00 single $12.50 double 
Friendly happy atmosphere-­Send your friends and relatives 
ABBEY INNS OF AMERICA 52825 U.S. 31 N South Bend, Indiana 46637 (219) 272-9000 <next to the Boars Head) 


says 


When it comes to pianos, we will do just about anything. , If we can't ItO it, we will try to fim:J someone who does. 
Call me now for an appointment 674-9335 





''Piano Pete'' 
u.s. 20 Osceola, lndlcnio 
Quality Tuning and Repairing 


JUNIORS --CLASS OF '74 

Make your appontment now for your yearbook portrait. Signups will be in the dining hall lobbies during dinner this week. 
Make that appointment NOW! 

"·.... -,.w....... . Bv Student U n ign ~ 
=·~=!i!<::!!::,.::l&-::.l!""'··'··~"":r"••;;:·.·:·•..-.~~...~.t::~:t:~*~:t~:.::.::.:::~::~:=~::::l'.......~-...w.~:~~~~~~~~~~~:.:::$:::s:::::.~.~ 



McDONOUG~ ~ 
L. t1ve, on s age,  ~-­~~~  
~  
of Mardi Gras THIS SA!~ ~:~6  ~·I  

in Stepan Center i 
A Free Concert ~. 
•....._fE~tsented 


Canservative 
Are You Being

AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
John Abowd Dan Thornton Editor-in-Chief Business Manager
NEWS: 283-1715 


Forced Off-Cam pus?

EDITORIALS: 283-8661 Don Ruane BUSINESS: 283-7471 Joe Butler Executive Editor Advertising Manager 


Wednesday, January 31, 1973 




No more 
Itwas bound to happen sooner or later. The undergraduate women, newly ad­mitted to this august institution, have stopped being the showpieces of Notre Dame's "new" image and begun to demand major adjustments in the policies that have guided coeducation throughout its initial year. 
The transition was not automatic by any means. The Women's Caucus played a major role in raising key issues and making the presence of vocal women an effective force in campus life. Curiously, it seems to be graduate students who are on the forefront of the coeducation issues. 
They base their case, however, on the university's public committment to full scale undergraduate coeducation. 
The two issues which have been raised this semester--namely, the continuation of the ruling prohibiting undergraduate females from living off campus and the need for more readily available gynecological services at the infirmary-­are more important, institutionally, than thev first appear. 
What is really happening is that the female students are demanding an end to "transitional" coeducation con­siderably earlier than university officals had expected. There are very few solid legal precedents to suggest how long a private university can engage in dif­ferential treatment of male and female students before the institution becomes guilty of discrimination on the basis of sex. Specifically, only the experiences of Yale, Princeton and some lesser known 
-private schools are available to suggest guidelines and limits. 
In view of the paucity of precedents it is just possible that Notre Dame, as a community, could set some guidelines that would allow us to end differential treatment without seriously threatening the goals of those who have defended the phase-in measures. 
Step 1 Immediately review all in­stances of intentional and alleged dif­ferential treatment. There are more of these than one might at first suspect: --Women have an admissions quota tied to available on campus housing; men do not. --Men may live off campus; women may not. 
daanesbury 


phase-in 
--Women may eat in any line of any dining hall; men may not. 
--Most men can enter their residence halls without h_aving to unlock the door; no women can. --Men can get the services of medical specialists within 48 hours; women ap­parently cannot. 
--Female transfer students are guaranteed on campus residences; male transfers are denied such ac­comodations. --Female students are protected from the dangers of the night by more than adequate exterior lighting; male students are not. 
Step 2 Clearly list the dire con­sequences which would beset the university if each instance of differential treatment was eliminated. 
Step 3 Present evidence to the effect that the statements made in response to step 2 are, in fact, true. If the per­formances on the off campus rule and the infirmary problem are any indication, its really doubtful that the conditions of step 3 can be met. 
Step 4 E lim ina te all instances of dif­ferential treatment next year. Failure to follow step 4 may result in an em­barrassing law suit. 
John Abowd 
A reminder 
What's happening? 
It would be almost impossible to know without The Observer. Yet Saint Mary's is in danger of losing the most com­prehensive source of information on campus if 80 percent of the student body fails to subscribe by 3: 30 this afternoon. 
If this happens, subscribers will have their money refunded; and nobody will have anything to read at lunch anymore. 
Saint Mary's cannot afford to lose the most viable link between all members of the community on both campuses. Is $2.00 too high a price for this service? (This pays for two semesters of Tht; Observer since the Student Assembly denied the subsidy last semester.) · 
Urge your friends to subscribe too if they haven't already. You could lose out if they don't. 
Maria Gallagher 

Managing Editor: Joe· Aln!+L 
News Editor: Anthony Abowd 
St. Mary's Editor: Maria Gallagher

111•rry trudeau 
Incredibly. the vast bulk of students on this campus are unaware of 
the seriousness of the projected housing shortage next semester. 
Within the next month, a situation will exist on campus that will very 
unfavorably affect several hundred male students. 
Unless action is taken immediately to encourage people to volun­
tarily move off campus, numerous unprepared individuals will be 
required to leave Notre Dame next fall and reside in South Bend. 
Flanner Rector Father Amen has already indicated in an open letter 
to all Flanner residents that there is an outstanding chance that on 
campus housing will not be available for all students next semester. 
According to the Dean of Students Office, the Administration is 
presently considering a plan which would eliminate all present 
campus housing shortages by denying housing to particular students 
whose names would be chosen by a means as yet not determined. 
Student Reaction and University Precedent 
Those students who are aware of the University's probably housing policy have typically reacted by questioning the University's "right" to deny housing to students. Numerous students express the belief that they possess an implied right to their campus housing by virtue of the University's recent tradition of granting housing to all who desired it. 
Unfortunately. the University has not always been so concerned with student housing wishes. Despite laudable housing efforts in recent years. University officials did force people off campus in the 1\HiO's on the basis of grade point averages. Administration officials are now pointing to that policy as a precedent for their "force students off campus" proposal for the up-coming semester. However, the system for selecting those to be forced off campus has not been definitely decided as yet. Administration personnel are presently considering both a lottery and a grade point average system. 
One Half of Notre Dame 
F:ven though a precedent may exist for the "force students off campus" proposal, this does not alleviate the unacceptability of this plan. Father Hesburgh recently wrote in a letter to junior parents that a Notre Dame education is more than books, schoolrooms, and studying. The implications of Father Hesburgh's idea are that this t lniversity also includes living with the people here and sharing with them the traditions of Notre Dame's places. 
Yes. this is what education means to many of the people who thrive on this campus. including those several hundred students who the Administration will very likely ask to move off campus. If the "force students off campus" proposal does become reality, some people next semester will be able to say, "I go to half of Notre Dame." 
Off Campus Is Not for All 
The Administration undoubtedly will deny that forcing people off campus is tantamount to relieving "extradited" students of half their education. The Administration will probably point to those persons now off campus as examples of those who find off-campus very satisfactory. 

However, if Administration officials do use present off-campus students as a justification for their proposal, they will be guilty of a false generalization. Admittedly, off-campus living is a rewarding experience for those individuals who value what off-campus can offer. However. for those individuals who do not possess the time, or the money. or the values which appreciate off-campus living, any University policy forcing students off-campus would be tantamount to relieving them of part of their education. 
What Can Be Done? 

In order to lessen the problems promised by the enactment of such a harsh "force students off-campus" policy, the University should redouble efforts to encourage students, who are already inclined to moving off-campus. to in fact move off-campus. The Administration could do this by maintaining in every hall an accurate, descriptive account of available housing in the South Bend area. In addition, a solid University commitment to the further development of off­campus life as a whole would also encourage potential off-campus students. 
Even if these measures meet with considerable success, some in­dividuals will find themselves in a most regrettable situation. 
the observer 
Editorial Editor: Jerry Lutkus Features Editor: Rod Braye Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson Associate Editors: Bob Higgins, Ed Ellis Special Projects Editor: Dan Barrett 
Night Editor: Jack Frischkorn Ass'! Night Editor: Susan Prendergast Layout: Albert D'Antonio Typists: Diane Chermside, David Rust. Mary Romer, Howard Halle, Bob Steinmetz Night Controller; Rob 'Mies' Barringer Pictureman: Jerome Phillips Copy Editor Ed Ellis Sports Night Editor: James Donaldson Day Editor: Mary Egan Champion Euchre players: Bill and Sue 
Editorial~ printed in The Observer reflects the opinion of the wnter on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial comment. 


--------~-



ShaiDIJI 
A Jew Among You 
biH sahn 
What are you doing at Notre Dame? I've been asked that question a million times. The answer is: I'm going to school, I'm sure not here for the social life. 
As I think about it. I really don't know what brought me here. There is just something magic about the name Notre Dame. l\1.v friends told me I couldn't get in because I wasn't Catholic. My parents and relatives still think I run into prejudice every day. 
I am both happy and proud to report that it is not that way. In the ~·car and a half that I have ·been at N.D., I have run into only one incident of prejudice. During the presidential campaign, I put a 1\ll'Govern bumper sticker on my door. One day I found an obscene and stupid remark about my religion and candidate written on it. I don't think this points out prejudice among the students at Notre Dame. but the stupidity and prejudice of Mr. Nixon's followers. 
(;oing the other way, I've learned a lot about Catholicism since I've come here. I had never even met a priest before I came here. My ideas about priests came from Bing Crosby and Barry Fitzgerald. I now know one quite well: my hall's beloved rector, Fr. Andy. Andy is a good advertisement for the Catholic Church though he doesn't sing as wl'll as Bing. 
Like everyone else, I am required to take theology. I am taking my first theology course this semester. I find it tremendously interesting. One thing I would like to see is a theology course on Catholicism and Christianity for non-Christians. 
When I came to Notre Dame as a freshman, my roommate was ... ~·ou guessed it. a full blooded Lebanese <he claims that he isn't an Arab. though l. Surprisingly, we got along. It's all part of learning; which is why we both came here---to learn. We all have to learn to live together. Religion shouldn't make a difference. Look at Northern Ireland. 
Finally, the one experience as a Jew at Notre Dame that I will always remember--Fr. Hesburgh came to our hall to say Mass. So I went to the Mass so as to hear his sermon. As I climbed the steps to the ehapel. Fr. Andy introduced me as one of the two Jewish students in our hall. During the sign of peace, he shook my hand and said, "Shalom" <hebrew for peace). I was really touched. Little things like that are the real start of peace. Thanks, Fr. Ted. 
SHALOM 
Dpinian 
Musings on 


a Theme 
jim ferry 
It's a long, cold walk from O'Shaughnessyto Morrissey, especially 
whl'n the walking is done on a night accompanied by a biting wind. 
Oftimcs there is nothing more to do on such a necessary walk than 
think. ponder. or even muse a bit, while trying to forget the Northern 
Indiana cold. 
l<'or myself at least, these musings often take different forms and 
they touch upon many different subjects and themes. Last night's 
mind was preoccupied with the possibilities of getting the flu, this 
weekend's possible drunken fit and finding an E string for my 
guitar .... trivial, but meaningful realities. 
My reveries were interupted momentarily by some sense inside me 
that urged me to look up in the black sky .... and I saw it....a shooting 
star. 
OK. I agree. "shooting star" doesn't sound too scholarly. Meteorite, 
then .... we've all seen them .... backs on the ground ...peering up to the 
Milky Way .... bright flashes across the sky. But this one was different. 
It didn't look far away, and it seemed to explode into an intense 
whiteness. which was followed immediately by a hundred sparks. 
Sparks of flaming red, and of ice-blue .... there for less than a second, 
and suddenly gone. Not all that unusual I guess, but somethingnot to 
be forgotten easily all the same.... something to be pondered. 
The walk continued .... winding through streaking visions and 
plodding realities. Wandering mind .... finally focused on a newspaper 
story read a week ago .... the Supreme Court has legalized the abortion 
of fetuses that have not yet reached three months of maturity ........ 
If you've read this far, you've undoubtedly noticed that things are a 
little disjoint in this column of print. A smooth transition of words has 
been interupted by something seemingly out of place. But the 
workings of one's mind can't be explained in a "smooth transition of 
words" ... and I'm trying to explain a bit of my mind, so bear patiently 
with me. 
Before you read further, let me warn you a bit. Some feminists will 
revile the rest of this. People will totally disagree with what I'm 
thinking about. Some will possibly label my words naive or 
unrealistic. but I have to say them all the same. 
Abortion is a volatile issue. There are many impressive arguments 
for and against it. One argument has now become law. But abortion 
itself. the topic, is still neglected in the minds of many people today. 
I've listened to the arguments. I've heard the scientific explanations 
of the development of the fetus. I've heard of the end it will put to all 
back-alley coathanger abortions and of the need to check the 
population of our planet. I've heard the anti-abortionist cries of "It 
eould've been you!" I've seen the glaring need for adequate child care 
centers. I can fully understand <at least to the best of my ability) the 
oppression women of today are crying out against. I can see all these 
things, but I still can't really reconcile myself either way on the 
question of abortion. 
Is abortion murder? Can it be termed euthanasia? I don't know. I 
want to know so badly. I want to feel the dividing line between good 
and evil. I want to be right. If I'm wrong, I'll gladly admit it. I don't 
want to seem emotional. or uninformed, or a fool. But tnen again, I 
don't want to keep another person from seeing that "shooting star", or 
from being that shooting star. pr even a spark of it. I'll be damned 
beforel'll do that. without knowing the truth. 
Just a few thoughts .... musings on a theme .... maybe not worth the 
paper they're printed on.... but think about them .... and be damned 
before you made a decision you're not sure about. 




OBSERVER 
COMMENT 
Wednesday, January 31, 1973 
Letters.•• 
Abortion 

I<:ditor: 
The Observer's reports of eampus reaction to the Supreme Court's invalidation of anti­abortion statutes generally reflect one of two opinions. Either the Court is assailed for avoiding the moral issues involved, or its decision is hailed as if there were no moral questions. These two perspectives are mutually ex­dusive. and dialogue in these terms offers no way out of the eurrent impasse. As one who considers abortion to be a horror, but who thinks that a political response must be ineffective, I would like to suggest that another approach is possible. 
First. those of us who take the Catholic viewpoint seriously should admit that Western Christendom no longer exists. This is not a Christian society. and the agencies of the civil government are not instruments for the en­forcement of Christian m:>ral and ethical concepts. The function of the civil courts is limited to the interpretation of civil lawswithin the strict context of the Con­stitution. and the Constitution, apart from the rhetorical generalities in the Preamble, is silent about ultimate moral questions. Such transcendentals are among the matters that belong not to Caesar but to God. If. given the essential opposition between the power of the secular state and the authority of the Church, we continue to assume that the state is competent to determine ultimate issues. we invite the imposition of an ideological totalitarianism. 
Spcond. if we cannot expect the eivil law to enforce Christian morality. neither can we expect mrdicine and science to support a Christian world-view with ob­jective certitude. The variety of ml'dical and scientific opinion about the point at which life begins simply demonstrates that this is not an empiricalquestion subject to laboratory proof. Whatever an­swers are offered are based upon prior theological or philosophical postulates. whether conscious or tacit. and their assertion does disservice to the proper discipline of science while begging the ethical issues. As in the case with the civil law, we have to face the fact that transcendentals ar e not scientifically demonstrable, who do not share the rhetoric's premises. 
Third. if neither the power of the 
civil law nor the authority of 
science will preach the Gospel for 
us. maybe we should try something 
really radical--something like 
embracing the Gospel in freedom, 
living It with joy, and proclaiming 
the Kingdom which it announces as. 
if we really believed that the 
Kingdom is within us. In the past, 
we have often been so busy en­
forcing our morals on other people 
and proving our precepts with 
aplogetics that we have not 
bothered to evangelize men. Our 
job is not to tell others what they 
must do. imposing moral sanctions 
upon them and bludgeoning them 
with philosophy. Our job, if we 
have been offered God's free gift of 
faith. is to embrace the Gospel, to 
permit the Spirjt to transform and 

transfigure us. and to invite others to share the loving illumination of the Christian enlightenment which we have been given. This cannot be done with words, laws.proofs, and arguments: they serve only to construct and impose abstract ~·onceptual systems. without af­fording human beings an in­tegrated experience of meaning. But the Gospel is ultimate meaning, and His name is Jesus Christ. If we were to r'isk en­countering Him. accepting His Life. becoming reJections of His Light. and sharing His Love--if we were to risk doing something O!Jrselves. instead of tellin g others to change--perhaps those who would see Him in us would no longer need explanations and ,iustifications for the things that matter. 
Sincerely, 
Hobert L. Kerby Assistant Professor of History Presbyter. Melkite Greek Catholic 
Church . 

Hockey Game 
Editor: 
Saturday night Notre Dame won 
a hockey game. Saturday night 
after the game a South Bend man 
and his daughter started to drive 
from the parking lot. Saturday 
night after the game four Notre 
Dame students kicked a half dozen 
dents in the side of the man's car. 
Why did they do it? I don't know. 
1 do know that after the man got 
out of his car one of them at­
tempted to throw a punch but was 
restrained by a cohort or a 
bystander. After a few minutes the 
primary "kicker" broke the grasp 
of the man and the four "Notre 
Dame men" ran from the scene. 
These four. like many other 
students here, probably wonder 
why they get so little respect from 
the community. These four 
deserve no respect. They acted 
like six-year-old kids. All they 
deserve is pity or contempt. I 
sincerely regret being unable to 
identify any of the four. If they 
were men, not kids, they'd come 
forthe and offer to repair the 
damages, but I've been around 
here too long to expect that to 
happen. 
Sincerely, 
John Hoffman 

Red Cross 
Dear Sir: 
The St. Joseph County Chapter of 
the American National Red Cross 
would like to express its ap­
preciation to the University and 
particularly the students for their 
participation in the blood drive 
conducted at Stepan Center on 
November 30 and December 1 of 
last year. 
Mot·e than 150 volunteers, the majority of them students, helped to make this program a complete success. A total of 719 pints of blood were drawn and it was necessary to turn away another 100 donors because of time limitations. 

,... on abortion 
We especially wish to thank the student Co-Chairmen, Mr. Peter 1\leade and Mr. Jack McKeon. Their enthusiasm and dedication was the most important factor in the success of the drive. 
Sincerely, 

1\lrs. George Heneghan 
Chairman. Blood Program 
St. Joseph County Chapter 

Peace 
Ed1tor: 

Throughout one's life there are certain events which so impress us even while they are happening that we are at once aware of their immortal imprint on our hearts and in our minds. The Viet Nam Pl'ace observance held at the ACC Sunday was such an event. 
Father Hesburgh touched upon every aspect and ramification of the War and what lies ahead. Furthermore, he left us with a personal message of how we can Pach bring peace into the world by Pliminating the hostilities and injustices within our won lives. 
There were so many stirring moments. As the priests came down from the platform and the people poured out of the stands into the arena to receive communion. I eouldnot help but think of Christ feeding the multitudes on the mountain . I was reminded of that again afterwards as everyone partook of the food supplied by the University. 
I cannot begin to relate all the thoughts and feelings I ex­perienced throughout the three or so hours but I can say that I shall never forget it. As the priestly procession marched out to the singing of the Battle Hymn of theRepublic everone remained motionless and silent. In the distance of the blackness there came the sounds of taps. Indeed, I was not the only one struck with awe. 
Valerie Grus 
Notre Dame Law School. 

0-C Women 
Editor: 

Dear Fr. Riehle, 
It is too bad that you cannot open your eyes and see that women are people, and not objects to be ex­ploited. Although there have been many acts of discrimination against the Notre Dame women, the most blatant and ridiculous is the ban on women living off­campus. How can you be so pompous as to keep women on campus so that they will be "visible". I must say that it is heartwarming to see such a con­cern for equal rights among the students. not to mention the financial consideration of living off-campus. If you need campus decoration in the future. may I suggest planting trees or flowers and letting the women return to their roles as human beings. 
Sincerely, 
Thomas J. Harbin 104 Sorin 
1 
l 
l 
~ 
l 
l 
~ 
1 I I 
j 
4 
j j j 
~ 
l 
I 
I 
A 
l 
--· 
... 


l 
p 
A 
X 

a creative pictoral essay 
.., 
:7 
0
.. 0 
CT 
< 
3' 
:7 
a c 
..
.., 
<D 
..n 
!! 
iO 

! ~ !l
.. 


~ -CT 
< 
0 :7 
.. :I 
CT 


0 
0. 
.. ~ 
:I 
0.

~ 
-
<D 
.. 0 

t 
CT 
!2. 

t t 
"' 

Wednesday, January 31, 1973 the observer 
7 


Soundingboard for blacks 
FSS needs student support
active in the South Bend com-
by Mike Rizzo in the South Bend community in semester. discussions, and with increased 
Staff Reporter 
The head of the black culture­oriented Frontier Scholastic Society expressed yesterday his feeling that his organization, while "an excellent and ... necessary" one. needs more student support to l'uHill its goals. 
Raymorid Turner, acting chairman of the Society, reviewed its first semester by describing its goals and programs. The group, he said.has attempted to act as a soundboard for Notre Dame black students and their opinions throughout the past semester. 
The society holds a bi-weekly 
forum. sponsors speakers, and is 
Dr. Pollard edits volume 
Dr. Morris Pollard. direcctor of Lobund Laboratory at the University of Notre Dame, has edited a recently published book entitled "Persistent Virus In­fections." The book is the eighth volume in the "Perspectives in Virology" series, published by the Academic Press of New York and London. 
Pollard. who is also chairman of 
Debaters impressive at Albion 
The Notre Dame Debate Team team of Jack Keeney and John continued their winning ways this Borkowski. each compiled past weekend at Albion College. preliminary records of 5-3. 
Out of a field of 28 competing Both teams advanced to quar­teams. both of the Notre Dame terfinals only to lose to the 1st and entries. sophomores Dave Hayes 2nd place teams in the tournament. and Jeff Rajchel and the senior 
Parent's weekend on tap 
by John Culligan the second floor of the building, a Staff Reporter greeting lihe, which will include Fr. Hesburgh. will welcome the The annual Junior Parent's parents to Notre Dame. Coffee will 
weekend is scheduled for February be served downstairs. 
16, 17, and 18. The event, held for the twenty-second time, was started by J. Arthur Haley for the purpose of giving the parents of the students attending Notre Dame a chance to acquaint themselves with the academic, social, and cultural life here. 
On Friday, February 16 parents will tour the university with their sons and daughters, after they register at the Center for Con­tinuing Eucation. 
At registration. from 4-10 p.m., parents can pick up ticket packets, which contain the passes for the w('ekend's events and a revised schedule of the events. 
The junior class has nothing planned for Friday night, but Milo Coccimiglio, president of the junior class, suggests that students could get tickets for the play "After the Rain", which is put on bv the ND-SMC Drama and Speech Lkpartments, or the ·ice Capades 
for their parents. 
Activities on Saturday start at 10 
a.m. At this time. and until! p.m., registration for parents will continue at the CCE. 
A career opportunity program 
will also start at 10 a.m. This 
program. which will c6ntinue until 
:~p.m .. will enable the juniors and 
their parents to find out about the 
different careers in each college at 
the university. 
In past years, the juniors and 
their parents had to go to the differ­
ent buildings on campus to visit the 
deans and faculties of each college. 
The career opportunity program 
will change all of that unneces·sary 
walking across campus. Students 
and parents can visit the first and 
second floors of Lafortune Student 
Center on Saturday at any time 
between ten and three. 
They will be able tQ meet the 
dean and faculty of the individual 
colleges and also Richard 
Willemin, who is the Director of 
the Placement Bureau. All juniors 
are invited to stop in and visit, 
even if their parents are unable 
to make it. 
~he Presidential reception runs from 3:30-5 p.m. at the CCE. On Notre Dame's microbiology department. is an authority in virology. epidemology and pathology. His special interests lie in the field of cancer, aging and the l'ffects of environmental pollutants. Under Pollard's direction. Lobund Laboratory has pioneered techniques of raising and propagating animals in a germ-free environment and has 
mu~~-. 
One of the basic goals of ·the group. commented Turner, is to provide an academic forum in which black students can deter­mine the significance of political, social. and economic events on campus and in the city. 
Although the group is generally aimed towards black commitment and at present contains only black members. the group is open to all students. "We are anxious for more student participation," stated Turner. "but we want commitment also." In fact. the New Frontier Scholastic Society· is concerned with more than mere discussion, for most of the members are active 
The day will end with a dinner in Stepan Center from 7:30 until 10 
p.m. The dinner will have a main course of prime ribs of beef. The Notre Dame Glee Club will en­tertain. After dinner, Hesburgh and Coccimiglio will address the juniors and their parents. 
The weekend will end at a Sunday brunch in the North Dining Hall. James Cooney, the executive director of the ND Alumni Association. will speak at the brunch which starts at 9:30 and ends at 10:30. 
Coccimiglio said that there was not going to be a special mass offered for the juniors and their parents on Sunday morning. He recommended that the juniors take 
A NEW LIFE FOR YOU 
Jesus Retreat 
Friday Feb 2  8 pm  
to  
Saturday Feb 3  8 pm  

Call 282-2508 days 283-6868 evenings 
Sponsored by True House a Christian Community at Notre Dame 
their parents to one of the masses offered in the hall chapels. 
Jim Lewis, who is in charge of the finances, said, "Responses are starting to come in. We would appreciate it if the juniors woUld remind their parents to come in as soon as possible." 
Coccimiglio added, "Juniqr Parent's Weekends in the past centered on what the student was doing at'the university. We are broadening that aspect by in­eluding the possiblilities of their future in the program since it is the time for us to start thinking of what we want to do for the rest of our lives." 
THE WINERY 700 Different Wines 
2426 L. Way West Mishawaka 259-9046 
such projects as tutoring of high school students and hospital work. 
The bi-weekly Forum has provided a place for students to discuss matters which the members deem relevant, and has satisified a need many students felt. according to Turner. The role of blacks at Notre Dame and racism • on campus have highlighted forum meetings. 
To broaden their scope, mem­bers have invited faculty members from campus, South Bend, and other colleges to speak at their gatherings. Dean Frederick J. Crosson from Notre Dame and Dr. Raymond Giles of Smith College were two of their guest .first 
•



on v1ruses 
pioneered in the development for 
patients. 
Pollard has been a consultant to 
the Surgeon General of the U.S. 
Army. the U.S. Department of 
Hl'alth. Education and Welfare 
<IH<:Wl. the U.S. Office of :'\laval 
Hesearch. the United Cancer 
Council and the National Academy 
of Sciences. 
Pollard has received 3 
Presidential citations. the Army 
Commendation Medal and the 
award ,pf McLaughlin Faculty 
Fl'llow of Cambridge University. 
lie is also a member of the Society 
for Experimental Biology and 
Medicine, and the American 
Association for the Advancement 
of Science. 


THE RED DOOR CLUB 
presents 

Old Time Movies 

Every Wednesday Night 
*also recent ND Football Flix 
*BEER * WINE * LIQUOR* 
MEMBERSHIPS AVAILABLE 



For the future, Turner and the other members plan to continue their present format of the Forum and speakers. both activities which are open to all interested students. Through these 
student participation, the New Frontier Scholastic Society hopes 'to help its members determipe the relevant .position of a concerned ·and active student in both campus 
•and community affairs. 




Wrestlers pin Wheaton 
from a 6-2 deficit in the third round event. giving the Irish a decisive
by Lefty Ruschmann 

with a near-fall before being held 24-9 lead on the strength of his first­in check by Brischetto the rest of period <1:59) pin of Tim Oxley,Notre Dame's wrestling team the way. Dave Boyer, wrestling after going ahead 2-0 on amade short work of Wheaton 
for the Irish at 142, spotted Doug takedown.
College last night at the Convo 
Penkham a 2-0, takedown lead
Center. defeating the Crusaders by Brian Oxley, Tim's brother took
before recording a quick reversal­
a :10-15 score on the strength of four on Pete Chimento of the Irish with 
and-pin at I:34 of the first round.
victories by pins. the opposite result--a quick pin at 
0:55 of the match, for Wheaton's
Pat O'Connor stretched the
AI Rocek's second-period pin of 190-pound star. Oxley, undefeated

Notre Dame lead to 18-3, edging his 
Wheaton's Dave Sugarbalser 
on the season. has been tabbed aextended his personal winning 150-pound opponent, Doug Howard, 
major contender for national
streak to 16, while John Dowd, by a 9-7 count. Howard led through honors in his weight class.
another winner by pin, ac­the first two periods. but O'Connor cumulated the needed team points drew even with a reversal early in AI Rocek continued the meet's to Parn a varsity monogram in his the third. and two penalty points fast pace in his usual style, 
plus the time advantage overcame punishing his heavyweight op­freshman year. 
Howard's one point via escape. ponent. Dave Sugarbalser. Both The Crusaders brought a 10-2 wrestlers battled to a standstill in 
n•cord into last night's encounter, Wheaton's John Kennedy (159) ~the opening period, but Rocek but the match was no contest as the decisioned Rich Gilloon, 7-2 after domina ted the second-periodIrish vaulted to a quick 6-Q lead in hanging on to a 3-2 advantage. The action. scoring first with an escape
the first event and led the rest of winning points were provided by a 
for a 1-0 lead. A minute later,the way. Notre Dame's Marc third-period escape and takedown. Hocek managed to down Sugar­Honquillo dominated his 118-pound Doug Pound. Wheaton's 167­
halser and register the pin at 3:56. 
match with Manuel Ojeca, pounder. followed with an 11-3 by John Fineranrecording a pin at 4:19 of the verdict over Jack Casini. Pound The Irish wrestlers will travel to The Irish fencers travel tost'l'ond period. Ronquillo's established a 2-0 lead in the first Cleveland this weekend for the 14­Chicago this Saturday to meet fourtakedown and a pair of near-falls round and then proceeded to open team National Catholic teams. but coach Mike DeCicco is prpcedcd the pin, giving him a 6-0 up an 8-1 advantage with a Chapionships. They will return pointing to one club--Wisconsin­lead in points. reversal. takedown and near-fall. home for a two-game set, February 9-10, against Parkside--as the team Notre Dame 
Wheaton made the score 6-3, the .John Dowd applied the clincher MacMurray State and Drake must beat in order to have another only dost' score of the night, when for Notre Dame in the 177-pound llniversity. outstanding season. "How well we 121i:pound Steve Rosser defeated 
dothis weekend against Wisconsin­Larry Scmerad, 7-4. Semerad, · 
Parkside will dictate our success subsiituting for ailing co-captain 
for the rest of the year," he Mike Martin. enjoyed leads of 2-0 
commented. after one period. and 4-2 after the 
This is not to say that DeCicco second. But Rosser came back 
and his 2-0 Irish are looking past with a reversal and near-fall to pull 
the other three teams--Chicago

OBSERVERaway in the final stanza. 
Circle. Wisconsin-Milwaukee, and Milwaukee Tech. The Irish coach, 
Stevc Brischetto I134) nearly however. realizes ·that a bad 

accounted for another Irish pin, showing could be a deterrant when 
registering a takedown and near­

SPORTS 
Notre Dame travels to the Motor 

fall in the opening period for a 5-0 City next Saturday for a meetingbulge over Wheaton's Gil with national powers Detroit and 
Wat£>rman. But Waterman rallied Wayne State. 
'Big Shue' :Jcnows what he wants 
by Vic Dorr 
physical game. was involved in 

Last spring, just after the close of just such a contest on Saturday the school year. John Shumate was afternoon when the Irish were one of 15 Notre Dame students who defeated by UCLA's powerful wpre stranded in the lobby of Bruins. Cleveland's municipal airport. "I do prefer the physcial game," The group had missed their east­said "Shue," "and certain in­bound connections. and had been cidents do happen in a game like Ieft--t£>mporarily-without a flight that. But it's up to the authorities or a mid-day meal. in charge to determine exactly 
Most of the students were· what has happened. Basketball is 
befuddled and annoyed, but a physical contact sport, and that 
Shumate was the exception. The 6-game was everyting I'd expected it 
9. 230-pounder from Elizabeth, to be. It was competitive, 
N.J.. ironed out his own schedule physical. and rough." The game dil'ficulties and then proceeded to was also Notre Dame's ninth loss arrange complimentary lunches of the season--and third in a row-­for himself and the entire group of and it leaves the Irish with a 6-9 ND students. "Shue" knew what he mark heading into Thursday's wanted. anp he had little difficulty contest at Villanova. getting it. "Everybody has the same at­
In like fashion. John Shumate titude." Shumate said, after the ·knows what he wants from his first practice following the UCLA basketball career at Notre Dame, game. "and coach Phelps was the and he knows how he wants to go same eoach Phelps--getting on us about it. whever we did anything wrong. A 
"I can forsee." he said, "with the morale problem? No. I don't think 
job the coaches are doing now, so. If you've got strong in­
where next year we could be in dividuals. you can survive 
contention for the National something like this. Basketball is 
Championship. Jhat'll be with like anything. If you just give up, 
good luck. and if everything works you're not gonna be anything but a 
out for us. The year after that bum. You've got to strive under 
<which will be the 1974-75 season, any circumstances, and then 
Shumate's senior campaign), I vou're bound to be successful. If 
think we'll definitely be one of the ihe individual man is what he's 
tt•ams to knock off for the title. supposed to be, if he's competitive 
This vear? Well. this year I'd in everyday life and on the court, 
like to see us pull 11 more games too then he'll bounce back." 
out and then get a shot at the NIT John Shumate takes such talk 
in New York. But to do that we've about competition seriously, and 
got to establish at least a 14 or 15-as one of Digger Phelps' two 
game win column." regular "game captains," he is in 
Despite the ambition in his goals, a position to communicate that 
Shumate does have a bright seriousness to the rest of the NO 
basketball future ahead of him. He eagers. 
is averaging 19.3 points and 10.1 "I look on that as a title," he 
rebounds a game in his first season said. "as just a label. In my 
of varsity competition, and he is estimation. each individual player 
hailed by NO's basketball guide as Digger Phelp's first practice timing was off too. But as the is a captain--and must produce his 
being "a vital key in Notre Dame's sessions. he was healthy and had season goes on. my confidence and onw winning spirit. his own 
return to national prominence." an added year of eligibility to show timing are improving. motivating attitude. Coach Phelps 
Rut last year. particularly, for his inconvenience. The long "Now. when I get the ball, I feel hasn't committed himself to things did not go so well for layoff did have an effect, though. like I can just go ahead with it. I'm naming a captain. We're one unit, Shumate. After pacing the 1970-71 "My biggest problem," he ad­able to go all out now, and I can and he relies on each of the players freshman squad in scoring and mitted. "was my stamina. It play the physical game I'm used as being captains. You can't just rebounding, "Shue" was forced by wasn't what it sh'ould have been, to. I think the extra year has designate a leader. Leadership is a blood disorder to sit out his and a couple of times coach Phelps helped me physically more than something that has to come from sophomore season. and wasn't able got on me for it. But I didn't go all­anything else. I think I'm more p£>rformance. from attitude." to resume workouts until February out because I knew how easily I'd physically rna ture than the And that. very pos!'iibly, explains of last vear. But last fall, when get tired. I didn't have my a vcrage sophomore." why John Shumate is one of Digger Shumate rE.'ported for coach smoothness back then, and my Shumate. who appreciates a Phelps' game captains. 


"Parkside has a lot of ex­pPrienced seniors returning. They certainly won't be lacking in any of the weapons. They are not as vulnerable as they were in the past <The Irish won last year 16-11 l," DeCicco went on. 
One thing that disturbs Notre Dame. particularly captains Mike Matranga and Dan Mulligan. is the failure of The Parkside press brochure to list the Irish as one of the tougher opponents. Matranga spoke with pride when he said. "They are being pretty short­sighted." as Mulligan nodded in agreement. 
Matranga and .John Lauck bring 

perfect 2-0 records to Chicago. At sabre. Mulligan is slowed by a knee injury this wee, but he ex­peds to be ready for Saturday's five-team meet. He and Mike Lyons sport 4-0 records in the weapon. 
At foil. DeCicco and Tri-Captain Mike Cornwall expect another outstanding weekend for the team's strong point. Tom Coye and Jim Mullenix both take 3-0 records into the meets, and another. Rick Malecz, is 2-o. DeCicco said of the surprising Malecz. "He is tough and is giving us added strength in the weapon." 
DeCicco and his assistants, Ron Sollitto and Tim Taylor, are ap­prehensive about the weekend, but the coach said, "Wisconsin­Parkside thinks we have lost t•!o much, but we still have our pride." 
NFL selects Irish pair 

All-American tackle Greg Marx and tight end Mike Creaney were the only two Irish players selected through the first seven rounds of the National Football League's annual college draft. 
Marx. a 6' 5", 265-pounder from Hedford. Michigan was picked up in the second round by the Atlanta !o'alcons. while Creancy went in the sixth to the Chicago Bears. 
Marx. also a Scholastic All­American. co-captained the Irish squad this year and was second on the team in tackles with 96. Creaney. 6' 4". 232 pounds from Towson. Md.. an excellent pass­catcher and outstanding blocker, finished his career with 46 receptions in 32 games as an Irish regular. 
i;~::::~:::::::~:::!::::::~=~=~="*~~=~.::~~==~~~~~===~s~:::~ 
~=:·  Fana~ ic s say:  :.~.i.J.f  
.~J~ ~:  Go Irish,  :jij  
~:=:'.•:· ~1Beat North  01  


::== Dakota! :·=· 
~ 0 
I Bring playoff 
:•,:1.::1.:.


Ihockey to NDiij 
* M
::~!=::~:::::.:~==~~=~::::~!~'::!!:~::~~=~:::~::::::::~:::~~:;:;::::::·~:::: 






