
OD The_Jnslde 
The Observer's top stories for 1972-73 
. . . page 3 Hei I Rosini's last cartoon ... pages 8-9 




serving the notre dame -st. mary's community Tuesday, May 1, 1973 
Vol. VII No. 120 

Nixon 'accepts responsibility' 
Watergate affair topic of television address 
by John Herbers 
(c) 1973 New York Tims 
.. Washington--President Nixon insisted tonight that he did not know of the political espionage or the attempted coverup of last year's Watergate ~ase but ~at _he accepted full responsibility. Appearmg on _nationwtde radio and television, the President sa1d ~e had delegated the running of his 1972 ca_mpatgn for reelection to others in order to carry out hts search for peace in Vietnam and other Presidential respon­
sibilities. But he added: 
"In any organization the man at the top must ~r the responsibility. That responsibility belongs here m this office and I accept it." 
The President also said that he had given his new Attorney General-designate, Elliot L. Richardson, authority to hire an outside special prosecutor if he thinks one is needed to find all the facts in the Watergate case. Having turned the case over to Richardson, he said, he would again pursue full-time the responsibilities of finding peace abroad and a better life for Americans abroad. 
The President, having accepted the resignations of his two top assistants-H. R. Haldeman, the White House chief of staff, and John D. Ehrlichman, his chief domestic adviser-thus became faced with having to reshape the White House staff and find a way for the Addministration to maintain its credibility. 
The President was urged by Republican leaders 
around the -country to name a chief o~ staff wh~ ~as 
been in no way imi-licated in the allegations of political 
sabotage and who has an impeccable record for public 
service. 
Nixon's decision to accept the resignation of his two 
aides was made over the weekend in the isolation of his 
mountaintop retreat at Camp David, Md., as both his 
friends and foes waited and wondered what he would do. 
The President, saying that he wanted to address the 
nation "from my heart," described the charges 
against his close personal and political friends. He said 
that "the inevitable result" had been to raise serious 
questions about the White House itself. 
Nixon said he had been "appalled at this senseless, 
illegal action when he first learned last summer about 
the break-in at Democratic headquarters in the 
Watergate complex. . . 
Throughtout last year, the President sat?, he r~etved 
"continuous reassurances" that none of hts key atdes 
had been involved and thus he "discounted" news 
accounts casting doubt on the White House denials. 
Until last month, he said, he was con­
fident that the charges were 1unfounded. 
"However, new information then came to me which 
persuaded me there was a real possibility that some of 
these charges were true," Nixon said, and that there 
had been an effort to hide the involvement. He said he 
had then ordered a new investigation, with the reports 
it produced to be filed "directly to me, right here in the 
White House." 
In what he described as one of his "most difficult" 
moments, he said, he had accepted the resignations 
today of John D. Ehrlichman, his chief domestic ad­
viser, and H. R. Haldeman, his White House chief of 
staff. 
He said the aides agreed that the government's 
image had to be preserved. He spoke highly of Ehrlich­
man, Haldeman and the departing Attorney General, 
Richard G. Kleindienst, but pointedly noted that the 
White House counsel, John W. Dean 3rd, "also has 
resigned." . "Justicewll be pursued fairly, fully and impartially, no 
matter who is involved," Nixon said. "This office is a 
sacred trust and I am determined to be worthy of that 
trust." 
He said his new nominee for Attorney General, 
Secretary of Defense Elliot L. Richardson, had 
authority to designate an outside, impartial in­
vestigator if he felt that that would be necessary. 
The President explained his lack of knowledge of the 
Watergate developments before last month by noting 
that he had been determined last year to remain aloof 
from the election campaign, concentrating on the goals 
of the Presidency. 
"The easiest course would be for me to blame those 
to whom I delegated the responsibility to run the 
campaign, he said. But he described that as the 
"cowardly" course. 
"In any organization, the man at the top must bear the responsibility," Nixon asserted. · He pledged to do all in his power to assure "That the guilty are brougbt to justice." "It was the system that has brought the facts to light," he said, countering the arguments that had held 



.Ehrlichman .Nixon Richardson 
that the Watergate case illustrated the flaws of the 
American system. 
He praised the Watergate judge, John J. Sirica, and even had an unusually kind word for the American press. 
He said there was also a risk of devoting too much of the government's attention to Watergate, and that he would turn to the larger responsibilities of his office. 
Reciting a number of international initiatives that are under way-arms control, detente with the major Communist powers, the maintaining of peace in Southeast Asia and the Middle East-and his goals of full employment and prosperity at home, Nixon said he was determined to pursue those ends. 
He recited goals that he said he had written last Christmas eve: 
--peace in the world. 
-full opportunity for every American. 
-jobs for all who can work and generous help for those who cannot. ~tablishment of a "climate of decency and civility." -"to make this a land in which each person can dare to dream." 
It was a characteristic performance for the 60-year­old President, who has prided himself on his handling of many crises in his long political career. There was evidence that this one was filled with as much personal trauma as any in the past. 
AAUP hears report on Lewis Hall incident 
by Anthony Abowd Student Association in 1968. It was cording to Manier. quotes a section in the Student those who do not choose to live 
News Editor used by the Administration to "The Committee has done ·Manual which states, "Due within . these boundaries is not a justify certain procedural actions exactly what it was authorized to process in a university is not penalty or a sanction; it is not a The University violated eight in a similar parietal case in March do. It has reviewed the ad­necessarily the same as due punitive or a judicial procedure; parts of the AAUP Joint Statement 1968, Manier contends. ministration's procedures followed process in the civil courts." nor is it coercive," the statement 
of the Rights and Freedoms of The ad hoc report states there in the case and it has reported on "I think that the University read. Students in their handling of the were no written rules used to the conformity of those procedures should be more democratic than In reference to this statement Lewis Hall incident last Novem­prosecute the student. The student to the AAUP Joint Statement on the society at large," Manier -.M.anier said, "I think the sen­
the Rights and Freedoms of stated. timent involved there is seriously
berr, according to a report of was not advised against self­
Committee Z, the ad hoc com­incriminating statements tht need Students," said Manier. Manier quoted a passage from an mistaken. It has the serious 
mittee established by the Notre not to be volunteered. There was In a larger sense Manier feels administrator's letter concerning disadvantage of isolating its Dame chapter of the AAUP to no written or taped records kept of that the university's action is in­the frst draft of his committee's author from the healthy effects of examine the incident. the proceedings nor were any dicative of a dangerous attitude on report and the University's critical exchange with faculty and The report will be presented to witnesses or cousel allowed"for the the part of the administration. He disciplinary code. "Exclusion of students." the AAUP at their general meeting student. tomorrow. The University's action No written statement of the is "a serious violation because a charges against the student was serious penalty was exacted," said ever delivered to the student. The 
Provost rebutts AAUP charges
Edward Manier, associate student never appeared before a professor of Philosophy and hearin2 committee comoosed of chairman of the ad hoc committee. students and faculty. The student by William Murphy The Observerclaims she said is at female faculty members were
The student "voluntarily with­was forced to resign because of the Staff Reporter variance with what had been said receiving less. salary than somedrew" from the university after a self-incriminating statements that 
between he and Taub. male professors.
parietal violation was charged by the student offered, the report Committe W of the AAUP In that same article, University Burtchaell also pointed out thatthe university. "The student states. charged Thursday that Notre President Fr. Theodore M. 
tenure is based on length of service

questioned the fairness of the All of these actions violate 
Dame is not doing enough to Hesburgh had been said to have and the quality of the teacher and 
proceedings and should have been certain passages of the Joint 
recruit and hold women faculty presented a very pessimistic said that few of the women had
entitled to the procedures outlined Statement of the Rights and 
members. In an interview last viewpoint for the future of the been here long enough to qualify
in the joint statement of the Rights Freedoms of Students. The of and Freedoms of Students," said relevant passages are quoted in night, University Provost, Fr. women faculty situation. Burt­for tenure. Monday's article said
James T. Burtchaell commented chaell said Hesburgh had not been two female members of the faculty 
Manier. the report, according to Manier 
on this and other charges. pessimistic but had said that itwas 
The Joint statement was passed "We are trying to get the ad­had received notice of the ter­
Burtchaell pointed out that at unfortunate that we need more
by the AAUP and the US National ministration to see that these rules mination of their contracts. 
apply to them," Manier said. "I two previous meetings of depart­female faculty at this time when Burtchaell emphasized the fact
IUI-IIPIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUWDIH 
will urge that the chapter submit ment chairmen he asked fot and the University is not expanding that , male professors were also 
was given assurance that every
our report to the chairman of the and cannot increase the amount of served notice that their contracts
Today's issue of Faculty Senate for delivery to the department was trying to recruit new faculty members to be hired. were also to be terminated. 
Academic Council and delivery to women. Burtchaell also stated Burtchaell also commented on Burtchaell said that CommitteeThe Observer the faculty liason to the Board of that he has told all departments the ch~rges of possible ·salary W has to be realistic about theTrustees." that they must report all efforts on discrimination. Burtchaell said progress they wish to see take
Manier predicts acceptance of minority and female recruitment that he had reviewed faculty 
place in the University and that, to

is the last the ad hoc report at the AAUP's by May 1. salaries with Committee Wand the date, there has been no
general meeting. The AAUP 
Burtchaell said that he had department chairmen. Burtchaell discrimination in the recruitment, 
executive committee has already
of the year. worked with the chairwoman of said that Chairwoman Taub ahd wage scale or awarding of tenure
approved the report at their 
Committee W, Dr. Susan Taub, admitted that she could see valid to female faculty members. 
._.,..,.,.''MAHIIIH'~' 1 1UillUIIUUW meeting last Wednesday, ac-
and that what Monday's story in reasons in this review why some 


the observer ,Tuesday, May 1, 1973 
~=Big Boy Family Restaurant~ 
Now • area

1n you' 
52"860 UoSo 3l North {in front of Ramada! Inn) 272-9720 
O,N,..THE CAMPUS o . oNOTRE DAME 

warld 
briefS <C>t973NewYorkTimes 
Washington-Henry A. Kissinger will fly to Moscow this week for talks with Lenid I. Brezhnev, the Eoviet Communist party leader, on plans for Brezhnev's expected visit to the United States late in June. While in Moscow, Kissinger will also discuss Vietnam, arms control negotiations and trade questions, among other matters, a senior administration official said. 
Los Angeles-The judge in the Pentagon&Papers ordered several former members of the Nixon administration--John 
W. Dean 3rd, Patrick L. Gray 3rd, G. Gordon Liddy and E. Howard Hunt Jr.-to produce affidavits concerning the link between Watergate and the Pentagon case. He indicated he would also probably require affidavits and perhaps testimony from other administration members. 
Washington-With the reluctant support of the ad­ministration, both houses of Congress approved and sent to the White Touse a compromise bill extending for another year Presidential authority to regulate wages and prices. 
-~·taday 
4:30 p.m.--lecture, dna--dependent rna polymerase in initiation, elongation and ter­mination of rna synthesis, and the problem of initiation with polymerases and the x for­mation of covalently linked rna-dna hybrids, dr. jerard hurwitz, room 123 nieuland science hall 
6: 30, 8: 45, 11: oo-movie, the french con­nection,engineering auditorium, $1 
7:00 
p.m.--discussion, great books, room 105 madeleva, smc 

7:00 
p.m.--lecture, summary and conclusion of the finance series, dr. frank muwakki, carroll hall, smc 


8:00 p.m.--meeting, celtic society, elections held, international room, basement of Ia fortune 
10:00 p.m.--discussion, "tear and tell," dean schaeffer of law school, wsnd-fm 
wednesday 
6: 30, 8: 45, 11: oo-movie, the french connection, engineering auditorium, $1 
7: 3D-debate, should the federal government establish a program of comprehensive medical care for all citizens, library auditorium 
10: oo-radio discussion, contact notre dame with fr. burtchaell and fr. griffin as special guest, wsnd,640 on am dial 

at nd-IIIIIC 


More non-violence needed 
by David Rust Staff Reproter
Arts and Letters Dean Frederick Crossen reported last night that Notre Dame's academic non­':~o!~l!c;e pro~am should be able to 
~~·:-:=:·:~~'i'J.~·:-.=11»~=::-ffl~:~=:=:::::':?.fr. 

1973 SMC Commencement 
Wednesday, May 16th 
1:00pm--3:00pm 
Pick up. tickets, announcements, and 
gowns at Bookstore 11:00am-1:00pm · Senior picnit at Riedinger House with a "special" berage and band 
Thursday, May 17 
10:30 am 
Senior Mass on the iSland across from SMC Library 
11:30 am Senior Brunch and Honors Convocation Given by Alumnae in College Dining Hall 
Friday, May 18 
4:00pm 
Alicia Purcell -informal recital (place to 
be announced) -;30 pm You're A Good Man, Charlie Brown O'Laughlin Auditorium ' 
9:00pm-Midnight Informal Reception, Albert Pick Hotel, 
\om 
Saturday, May 19 10:00am daccalaureate Mass, O'Laughlin 
I'll 11: 1Sam Baccalaureate Brunch in College Dining Hall Admission by ticket only. 2:00pm , Conferring of hoods to Seniors 2:30pm Seniors form procession 2:50pm Procession into O'Laughlin Auditorium· 3:00pm Commencement in O'Laughlin Auditorium Admission by ticket only 8:30pm You're A Good Man, Charlie Brown, O'Laughlin Auditorium 
Note: 1) each girll will be receiving 6 tickets: 4 in O'Laughlin and 2 in closed circuit T.V. 
2) if you wish extra announcements (each girl receives 15) orders will be taken Tues. May 1st 4:30-6:00 in Deining Hall. 
3) If any SMC senior graduating from NO wishes to attend SMC com­mencement please contact Kathy Murphy (4537, P.O. 802) on or before May 4th. 

HAVE A GOOD SUMMER 
We've got what it takes: 
.· ;;·
l,L•_ :., -'~ .~ 
:--.....
.. -..~ 
-.~ ..:: ­
{' -:--.~ "7;:·it~; 
i:d...:,.. "'.,,:;"'? ~ "" ) 

offer "four or five non-violence courses apart from those double listed" for the 1m fall semester. 
During the two semesters of the 1972-73 school term the program offered only double-listed ocurses 
"I expect by next year we'll ~ back on _the s~m~ road" paved by thz Umvers1ty s non-violence program which has operated since the fall of 1969, said Dean Crossen 
. "~e:re in the process of 
fmahzmg right now the ap­pointment 1of a new man to head the non -violence staff," said . Crosson, "as well as adding another faculty member." 
The , Arts and Letters Dean promised that publicity concerning the new courses would be available upon students' return to the University this fall. · 
Notre Dame's academic non­violence program began in 1969, at. the heighth of sentiment against the Vietnam war, and until this year had offered several courses each semester to University students, those enrolled num­bering 4()()-500 during someterms. Last year five courses were listed as solely non-violence program offerings each semester. 
After realizing that none of these courses jwere offered this year, a number of students and faculty expressed the fear that the non­violence program had been discontinued for good at Notre Dame. However, Dean Crosson's 
announcement  appears  to  have  
repudiated these fears.  
"The  University  offers  these  

courses not only in response to student interest, which has been continuous," said Crosson, "but 

Observer Staff 

Pick up Party tickets from editors Party is tonight • 8:30 
also because this is a part of the 
tradition of the Christian church a 
tradition that manv of the 
academic institutions \ of this 
country have lost sight of. It is 
important to bring it back into 
view." 

Problems with tbe non-violence 
program have stemmed from 
difficulties with funding, said 
Crosson, but those problems have 
now, for the most part, been 
resolved. 

Crosson believes that student 
interest in the program "will not 
be nearly as great as it was three 
or four years ago," but expects 
anywhere from 60 to 100 students to 
participate in the program next 
year "if the courses are good " 

"Frankly, three or four y~ars ago there were many instances of some pretty lax academic stan­dard_s ~~d .unwarranted highgradmg, sa1d Crosson, referring to 3.95 averages awarded many fo~~er students in the program. 
But I would not be trying to keep the program in the college if I didn't think standards would now be re~sonable," he concluded. 
Umversity Provost. Father ~ames Burtchaell professed Ig~orance of the arrangements· bemg made in relation to the program, reminding that the affair was "being handled by the College of Arts and Letters." 
The Observer is publiShed dally during the college semester except vacations by the stuaents of the 
University of Notre Darile and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S8 per semester ($14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame Indiana 46556. Second _s:las~ postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 




' ·' 

Tuesday1 May 1 1 1973 the observer 
Observer picks top ten of year 
1. Coeducation at Notre Dame 
More than any other event this year, the arrival of 360 women last fall changed Notre Dame permanetly. For the first time women were part of Notre Dame, no longer to be considered strangers or intruders, but part of the Dome and Notre Dame's destiny. The change was first apparent in the elaborate security precuations taken at Badin and Walsh, ~u~ soon made itself welcome in the classrooms and dmmg halls. 
But the change was not without its trials. Women soon were demanding that administrators supply them with better medical service and allow them to move off campus; they were not content to be objects, on or off campus, but were adamant that they be treated as people. 
4. Lewis Hall Incident 
It appears that Notre Dame still has not heard of the end of the Lewis Hall incident, in which Security en­tered graduate student's room and evicted a young man from her room. The charge was leveled that the student was expelled from the University without due process. 
The woman was not technically in violation of parietal rules because Lewis Hall, a graduate dorm, has no hours. Security charged, however, that they investigated only in response to a complaint by another student that the woman's male friend had taken a shower in the dorm. 
The AAUP has been investigating the matter. The Advanced Student Affais Committee has formulated a set of rules for handling disciplinary cases involving graduate students. 

5. Hesburgh resigns Civil Rights Commission Chair 
Following President Nixon's landslide reelection last November, Notre Dame President Father TheOdore Hesburgh was asked to resign his post as Chairman of the Civil Rights Commission. The WHite House Staff indicated that Hesburgh was asked to resign because of statements made before the. election, but Hesburgh denied having made the statements. 
Hesburgh stated that he would resign in compliance with Nixon's request, but felt that Nixon's request calling for his whole staff to resign was on questionable legal grounds. In 1964 the Civil Rights Commission refused to honor a request by President Johnson that they resign, claiming that the Commission was an independent agency and not a part of the White House staff. 

Thirteen slates of candidates entered this year's SBP-8BVp-marathon, in which the Glenn Sorge-Juan Manigault and Jim Clarke-Chris Singleton tickets finished one-two, throwing the election into a run-off. Problems arose, however, when R. Calhoun Kersten decided that he would enter the race. 
Denied the right to run as a write-in candidate, Kersten asked his followers to vote a blank ballot to invalidate the election. The strategy worked and 52 percent of the voters threw in a blank ballot. 
The new election saw so many slates of candidates that the election was called off and the different fac­tions were called to the bargaining table by Dr. Ackerman. A compromise constitution was written, forged and taken to the HPC. Other constitutions were proposed, the HPC accepted one, but their hall councils failed to approve any new constitutions by the required two-thirds majority. 
Anew election was called, and former SBVP Dennis EtiE-nne and Mike GPisinger were elected. 
···=··~:" 
YJ·.ca·.·.··":·.·~··. ~~· . ·.. ··.. :·
. 
.···· ... . .. 

2. Faccenda revamps the Student Affairs Office 
Dr. Phillip Faccenda, formerly chief counsel for the University, ,inherited the position of Acting Vice­President of Student Affairs last year when Fr. Thomas Blantz departed. After holding the position for over six months, Faccenda aecepted the permanent position, becoming the first nonCSC to hold the position. . 
Faccenda has totally revamped the office of Student Affairs, establishing a central Staff composed of his top assistants. The Central Staff has taken over many of the policy decisions that were previously made only by the Vice President of Student Affairs and has realigned the machinery of the Office of Student Af­fairs. 

6. Student chairs SLC 
In an unprecedented move, the Student Life Council, tripartite advisory council for Student Affairs, unanimously approved Fred Giuffrida to chair the SLC for a year. Dr. Robert Ackerman, director of student activities, was elected Vice-Chairman of the SLC at the same time. qDr. Philip Faccenda told the SLC that its function was to legislate "in that area of responsibility which is assigned to the office of student affairs." 
The SLC spent the year exploring the campus housing crisis and its impact, and dealing with a number of proposals from the black community, in­cluding a black house. 
9. Farley, B-P, and Lyons picked as next women's dorms; students forced off-campus. 
Administration officials, convinced by students that 
an early announcement of the future women's dorm 
would not destroy hall spirit, but would help students in 
choosing their new hall, announced early in December 
that Farley and B-~ would be the next women's dorms 
and that Lyons Hall would be going to the women 
students in the '74-'75 school year. Farley and B-P 
juniors were moved to Lyons and the underclassmen 
were moved to the rest of the halls. 
The head count showed, however, that there were not enough rooms and that some students would be forced to move off-eampus. Sixty percent of next year's seniors and twenty percent of the juniors would have to live off-eampus, but some halls decided to overcrowd rather than split up. 

3. Academic Manual is Adopted. 
The Academic Council spent the entire year revising the Faculty manual, first adopted in 1967. The revision ultimately beeame the University's first Academic Manual. 
The Academic Manual, governing University academic policy, included some landmark decisions. It is the first statement from the academic community that acknowledges the position of Provost. The manual calls for the approval of new college deans by the academic community. Probably most significant for students at the University is that the manual guarantees student representation on many policy­making bodies. 
The issue of the revision of the faculty manual stirred so much controversy that Professor Edward Goerner declined a prestigious teaching award because he did not want to condone what the ad­ministration was doing. His action met with approval among the faculty of the University. 

7. Kennedy, Shriver visit campus. 
Last fall's presidential campaign brought Senator Edward Kennedy and Vice-Presidential hopeful Sargent Shriver to Notre Dame to campaign for the Democratic Presidential ticket. The large crowd for the Kennedy speech brought speculation that the crowd was there to see Kennedy, not to hear about the·· • McGovern-8hriver ticket. 
Shriver charged that "Honor in Washington is as· dead as <Nixon's dog) Checkers--cold in the ground," and appealed to the students not to be swept along by the tide of cynicism. Shriver was introduced to the crowd by Fr. Hesburgh, who had invited all four major candidates to appear. The Republicans declined. 

10. Irish teams earn laurels. 
Notre Dame's football, basketball, and ~ockey teams all earned trips to postseason competition. The foot­ball team posted an 8-2 record, including a 45-23 defeat at the hands of USC and Anthony Davis, to earn an Orange Bowl bid against Nebraska. But the Irish just couldn't handle Johnny Rodgers and his teammates and went down to a 4o-6 defeat. 
The Irish basketnall team came back from an early 1-6 record to finish up with a 15-11 record and Digger Phelp's first invitation to post season play as the Irish coach. The team went on to defeat USC, Louisville, and North Carolina before losing to Virginia Tech in overtime of the final game, 92-91. 
The Irish Hockey team established itself this year by posting a 21-13 record in the rugged WCHA, finisl': ~: behind Denver and ahead of Wisconsin. The t(. •II defeated North Dakota in the semifinals before losir hearbreaker to eventual NCAA champs Wisconsil the final three minutes of the second game of series. 4-3 
the observer Tuesday, May 1, 1973 
Discussion of student Black house delayed 
by Janet LongfeUow Speaking for the black students, Ellison continued, "In order for provide leadership to interested
Staff Reporter Senior Carl Ellison reacted to the -an accurate list of off-camous
black students to communicate black and minority stqdents, serve students addresses and phone
postponement, "I believe that their problems, they will need as an advisor to the various
Plans for the Student Black inaction has killed the issue. I more access to the information numbers to improve com­
minority student organizations,
House were postponed for don'tthink blackstudents will take they seek. I have tried for four munication.
facilitate communication between
discussion next fall at yesterday's the time all over again to raise the weeks to obtain important in­-an up-to-date, comprehensive
the minority students and other
general meeting of the Student Life list of available housing be made.
issue next fall." formation from the Admissions student organizations, and other
Council. "There is a growing apathy office that I was previously -establishment of a "co-op" for
branches of the University.
The reason for the delay in among black students due to the allowed. This added frustration food and other needs.
-that the University make the
action was a lack of sufficient total effect of inaction in meeting only hampers the students' ability --possible transportation­
matter of increasing minQrity
information concerning the black students' needs, on the part to articulate their needs." problemsolutions such as carpools,
enrollment a priority item of both
availability of resources. Als? in of the University and groups like imibusses, and scheduled shuttle
Other recommendations from 

its student recruitment and its
question was its possi~le services.
the SLC," he concluded. the Steering Committee report on allocation of funds to restricted
segregational connotations which -. Christian Ministry for off­
Ellison predicted that this Black Student Life were assed with endowments.
could interfere with the Univer­apathy would result in a move off­some ammendemts made. They campus students sho.uld remain a
--that the academic councils
sity's racial philosophy. It was campus of approximately one-half are: high priority item.
consider developing minority
decided to recommit the recom­of the University's black students, -that a black person be added to Dr. Leslie Foschio, Assistant
epxerience courses as electives,
mendation for consideration by due to the unattractiveness of the staff of the Vice-President of Dean and Professor of Law,
and that information regarding
next year's Planning Committee. outlined the possiblity and benefits 
campus life. Student Affairs. He would that present black studies program of Group Legal Servies for off-be more completely distributed to . campus students . Thes~ ~nefitsattract enrollment. 
would include the defmitlon of--that the Campus Ministry rights in lease agreements, advice develop related educational on consumer problems, Civil



SMC roundup • • • 
programs to be presented in Rights Law violations, etc. _conjunction with campus liturgies. 
Maureen Lathers, student-that hall staff orientation and

Hall elections these offices must submit their representative, explained that the 
in-service training programs
names to Ann Smith (5375). Campus Life Committee wishes to
Meat boycott emphaiszie educational efforts to readdress the University con­Candidate platforms must be
St. Mary's Hall Life Com­make individuals aware of their
submitted to Smith beofre mid­cerning its philosophy of
missioner Ann Smith has an­racial attitudes and of the
night on May 3. Students who declined meat at responsibility, since the forcing of
nounced the nomination proc~ure available means by which at­
the Saint Mary's Dining Hall April students off-campus has made
for the upcoming Hall elections. titudes can be influenced.
13-15 raised over one hundred fifty their position unclear.
Smith also the Chairman of the -that concerned black student Electio~ Committee fo_r },lall Appointmellts dollars for the El Campito Day groups begin actively and openly Lathers stated, "If the 
Care Center in South Bend, ac­University still. considers itself
Elections., stated that nomma~ons to discuss their interests. The SLC
cording to junior Debbie Schwarz, residential, we wish it would
for hall president and vice­stands willing to help provide
St. Mary's Board of Gov":rnance organizer of the drive. consider these recommendations." 
president will be accepted from whatever practical assistance they 
Chairman Barbara McKiernan Schwarz expressed yesterday Final reports were made on
8:00a.m. until10:00a.m. on May 3. can.
has appointed the new members of the gratitude of the Community pending bills. The possibility of
Petitions for the student TheCampusLife Committee also 
the Student Relations Board. . Psychology Class that sponsored transferable football tickets was
assembly representativem~st ~lso made an evaluation of the April
The Board is headed by chair­th meat drive, saying "par­researched unsuccessfully. The
be submitted during th1s time 2nd hearing on South Bend-Notre 
man Laurie Bracken. The other ticipation was very worthwhile. flexible meal ticket plan will be
period. Dame Community relations. The
members are Mary Kay Conaty, We're glad so many people were looked into next fall by the Campus 
The student assembly consists of committee decided to write a letter
Jennifer Johnson, Peggy Foran, willing to make the sacrifice." Life Committee or Steering Com­
five representatives from LeMans, to the Committee on University
and Annie Vaerradri. Liz Crowley El Campito is a local Mexican­mittee.
and three emembers each from Priorities, after submitting it to
and Marne Antoine were named as American Day Care Center that Postponed until the May 7th
Regina, Holy Cross, and the SLC for approval. The
alternate members of the Board, has been in financial trouble for meeting, are End-of-the-Year
McCandless day students and off­recommendations include:
McKiernan also announced the several months. Schwarz said the Committee Reports, SLC 111em­campus students are entitled ti ine appointment of Patti Kampsen as money raised at SMC would to berhip for next yeasr, and an
representative each.. . -Off campus office available to
student representative on the toward books, desks and school organizational meeting to elect
Persons interested m runnmg for off-campus' students. 
Appellate Board. equipment. officers. 

Northwest's Reserved Youth Fare or ... 
how to fly like everybody else for 20% off. 
Flying standby is great ... if you don't campus travel agent. (Be sure to bring Pete and Ft. Lauderdale. And the only mind standing by. But somet1m_es you along proof that you· re between 12 and 747s to Tampa/St. Pete-plus a daily want to get somewhere at a certam t1me. 22.) 747 to Miami. That means lots of seats So Northwest Orient has found the on 8 Florida flights every day. Which
If you don't mind standing by .••
happy medium. Now we'll give you a re­makes your chances that much bett~r if
and even think it's sort of neat because
·served seat for about 20% off Coach you're flying standby-and your flight
of all the interesting people you meet in
fare if you have any airline You_th C~rd. that much more comfortable no matter
airports, your Youth Card can still get
Make a reservation and when flight t~me how you're flying. 
you Northwest's regular standby youth
comes, walk in and take your seat-JUSt 
fare-nearly 33% off Coach. Why settle for less? For information
like a passenger paying full fare. No 
waiting. No worrying. No getting Northwest -a good bet to Florida. or reservations, call a travel agent or 
Northwest Orient.
bumped. It's that simple. If you're planning on Florida for break, If you don't have a Youth Card, get one here's something good to know. North­from any Northwest ticket office or your west has the only DC-1 Os to Tampa/St. 
FlY NORTiiWEST ORiENt@ 
New Federal Security Regulations. We suggest that you arrive .at the airport 45 mi~utes _before flight departure to allow adequate time tor new Fed~ral security procedures. All passengers and the1r carry-on luggage Will be mspected. 


Tuesday, May 1,1973 the observer 
5 

Role of ND Library continually expanding 
by Jim Gresser Staff Reporter 
The role of the Notre Dame Library is aconstantly changing and expanding one. That role, which a serious shortage of funds threatens, will have a gre~t effect not only on the type of servtces the Library offers, but on the overall quality of a Notre Dame education. 
In contemporary education, revolutionary methods are being employed. The university library must according to the Director of Univ~rsity Libraries, Mr. David E. Sparks, be willing to respond to those changes.
Perhaps the greatest educational changes are occuring on the undergraduate level. Mr. Sparks feels that "undergraduaJe education is not static" but that it develops greatly "as teachers and students gain new insights into the process of ecucation." The role of the library, Mr. Sparks believes, is to "try to be aware of thosekinds of changes" and to "follow along." 
In many academic areas the library is feeling thesevereimpact of what Mr. Sparks calls the "age of the paperback book." Many teachers want their students to develop their personal libraries and a flight from the library results in certain fields. 
"Graduate education," Mr. Sparks added," is . a_n?th_er situation. There, a dtmmtshmg book budget can really hurt." Most graduate studies demand a large corpus of in-depth material and it is impossible to complete a doc­torate or master's degree without that extensive collection of materials. If the necessary books are not purchased now, both the need for the books and their cost will grow. Mr. Sparks stresses that 
"undergraduate education is. not less important but it has a different tempo."
In both undergraduate and graduate education new demands must be met : demands for books, periodicals, microtexts and readers, tapes and listening equipment. The obvious problem then as Mr. Sparks sees it, is how to reconcile "the changing times with an unchanging budget." 
Undergraduate Use 
On the undergraduate level, the library must meet an interesting assortment of needs. Unlike many other University libraries, the Notre Dame library is a complex combination of academic resource, study hall, and student union. As such, the library on the undergraduate level is used to essentially its full extent. 
NEED HELP LEAVING N.D.? 
HEADING HOME OR OFF ON VACATION TO: 
AT-LANTA.•• NASHVILLE.•.NEW ORLEANS.•. FLORIDA...BERMUDA..• BAHAMAS•.. MEXICO•••THE CARIBBEAN•.. 
CALL MIKE DEMETRIO 283-8462" 
e IN 
The Wings of Man 
One of the new areas of greatThe one area where it is perhaps importance to the library is thenot as well utilized as it might be, growing area of microtexts. Inaccording to Mr. Sparks, is its use both forms, microfilm andby the faculty as a teaching aid. 

microfiche, microtexts will be an

"It's surprising," Mr. Sparks 
integral part of tomorrow's

state, "how few professors make use of the library for assignment of library. Among the advantages of 
course readings.'' Mr. Sparks feels microtext is the ability to purchase whole collections that can increase 
that the library could be of in­the library's value. For example,valuable assistance to both the entire Goldsmith Library at thestudents and faculty, if its ability University of London and theto handle reading lists, the service Kress Library at Harvard haveof the resevered book room, etc., 
been compiled and are availablewere better utilized. 

on microtext, providing the most complete collection of economicGraduate Use literature available. To try to match this collection would notIn research, the library is well only be impossible but even if itused. Some collections, especially 

the Math Library and the were possible it would be astronomical in cost.
Chemistry and Physics Library, The purchase of those microtextare considered to be among the collections is not thatbest in the country. All the easy ,however. The Goldsmith­research collections are growing 
and as the building of the collec­tions and the use of them continue so does the quality of the research. Many departments have library committees which actively work with the library staff to improve the quality of the collections. Mr. Sparks feels that all departments should have such advisory com­mittees. 
All in all, Mr. Sparks feels that thelibrary'sservices are quite well utilized by the University com­munity. He also feels that this utilization will continue to grow as does the cooperation and com­munication between the academic community and that which is there to serve them. As. Mr. Sparks put it, "We take no complacent posture. The library can and always will be improved." 
Libary of the Future 
A key word for~the Notre Dame library of the future is, as it is in somany other places, automation. In both the academic and the clerical aspects of the library's maintainance, automation can be a tremendous boon. At the same time it also involves tremendous initial expenditures. 
Chisholm cancels ND appearance 
Congresswoman Shirley 
Chisholm's scheduled appearance 
yesterday night was abruptly 
cancelled Monday due to pressing 
congressional duties. Tbe 
Academic Commiaaton wu Ill­
formed at 3:30 Mooday altemooa 
that Ms. Cbiabolm iaranatntq ID 
Wasbiogton to bear debate aDd 
vote 011 tbe EcoDomie StabWutioa 
Act. TeatatiYe plaDI are fw a 
reaCbeduliDI of the lecture early 
next faD. 
Kress Library of Economic Literature is priced at $39,000 which, while far less than it would cost to purchase the books, is still a great deal of money. Also, an in­creased micrbtext collection means more capital outlay for readers, storage cabinets, space and personnel, all of which takes money which the library simply does not have. 
The Multi-Media Library 
Because the future library will, by necessity, be multi-media, audio equipment will also be in demand. In the long run there is a 



STUDENT·RAILPASS 
Thowo,. to•••Eurepowlth-tfoolincllkoo tourist. 
Student-Railpass is valid in Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Holland, Italy, Luxembourg, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland. 
Eurell.,_ss, Boa 90, Bohemia, New York 11716 
Pie~ send me your free Student-Railpass folder order 
form. 0 
Or your free Eurailpass folder with railroad map. 0 
~'---------------------------­
Street___________________ 
City·----------------------­
~ 
State,_______Zip__________ 
1f2C 

·----------------------------------------~ 
So you plan to spend the Summer in Europe this year. Great. Two things are mandatory. A ticket to Europe. And a Student-Railpass. The first gets you over there, the second gives you unlimited Second Class rail travel for two months for a modest $150 in Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Holland, Italy, Luxembourg, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, and Switzerland! All you need to qualify is to be a full-time student up to 25 years of age, registered at a North American school. college or university. 
And the trains of Europe are a sensational way to travel. Over 100,000 miles of track links cities, towns and ports all over Europe. The trains are fast (some over 100 mph), frequent, modern, clean, convenient 

need to change the library sound system from discs to tapes which includes changing from record machines to tape decks. 
All non-book media will be ex­pensive in capital outlay. Good machines cost money and all the new equipment will require ad­ditional personnel to handle it. 
Another dimension of the technological matrix of the future library is the use of computers. Mr. Sparks feels that such use would be of invaluable assistance 

Jim--Class of '63

1723 So. Bend Ave. 
Chuck--Class of '65 Proprietors 

Call by Friday afternoon for weekend Kegs 
Thank you for your patronage this year 

SENIORS-GOOD LUCK 
For a graduation special we will be keeping our beer specials until May 20. 
•

IP 










urope. 
and very comfortable. They have to 
be. So you'll meet us on our trains. It 
really is the way to get to know 
Europeans in Europe. 
But there's one catch. You must buy your Student-Railpass in North America before you go. They're not on sale in Europe because they are meant strictly for visitors to Europe-hence the incredibly low price. Of course if you're loaded you can buy a regular Eurailpass meant for visitors of all ages. It gives you First Class travel if that's what you want. 
Eitherway if you're going to zip off to Europe, see a Travel Agent befo're you go, and in the meantime, rip off the coupon~ It can't hurt and it'll get you a better time in Europe than you ever thought possible. 
to the efficient governance of the library. 
The llibrary is a very complex [)rganization and one that is vital to the continued success of the University. Though Mr.Sparks feels the Library is not in any dire straits of losing its accreditation or of closing its doors, he does feel that the library situation "could become a real problem if we don't take some action now ... There are a few danger signals and we ought to pay attention to them." 


the observer Tuesday, May 1, 1973 

Inmates soon realize prison life's austerity 
by Jim Lindsay opens and bangs shut, and you 
Staff Reporter quickly discover that the waiting 
room certainly was a poor in­

"Please sign this form, relieving dicator of what lies inside. the prison of any responsibility should you be shot or hung while Maximum Security Prison you're inside the walls." 
The hefty, middle-age man Located a one-hour drive forom making the remark is dressed in South Bend, in Michigan City, the blue, police uniform of an Indiana, the Indiana State Indiana State Penitentiary guard. Penitentiary is what the U.S. You laugh off his "subtle" warning government terms a "maximum as a joke, but he only gives you a security prison" It takes little blank stare and says, "It's not observation to understand why the entirely impossible." institution rates such a title. 
From the prison's main-gate Surrounding the entiie fifteen waiting room, the penitentiary building prison complex stands does not appear to be such a bad a forty-foot concrete wall, thick place. The walls are all nicely enough to allow room for a guard wood paneled. FM music plays walkway at the. top. An inmate softly through ceiling speakers. housed at the prison sees the 
But then you begin to notice little outside of this wall only twice 
things that suggest what lies during his sentence, once coming 
beyond the waiting room. A prison in and once going out. 
guard walks by pushing a grocery Nor is an inmate granted much 
cart filled with riot helmets. A sign more personal freedom inside the 
hangs on one paneled wall: "Have walls. The whereabouts of each of 
your picture taken with your loved the prison's 1700 inmates must be 
one-$1.25." Glued to the sign is a accounted for every hour of the 
small, polaroid snapshot of a blue­day. From s·p.m. to 6a.m., each 
denim clad inmate standing with prisoner is locked inside his 6' x 8' 
his arnf around a young woman. cell in one of four blockhouses. If 
Before being escorted inside he is lucky enough to attain an 
"the walls", the same check-in "honor inmate" rating, he might 
guard gives you a quick but rate an 11' x 15' cell in a newer 
thorough frisking and watches as blockhouse and not be locked up at 
you walk past a metal detector. night until 10 o'clock. But the 
Your boot buckles set off a warning turnover in these cells is very slow. 
bell, and as the guard has you Many inmates having honor status 
remove your boots, he laughingly behavior records have waited for 
relates how one visitor the years for vacancies to occur. 
previous ~eek had attempted to 
hide four 22-caliber rifle shells in Cells are Equipped 
his shoe heels. This time, as 
you watch him try to swivel the Each individual inmate cell is 
heels of your boots, you are the one equipped with life's bare 
who is not laughing. necessities, and nothing more: a 
Finally checked through, you toilet, a sink with cold running 
stand before two barred, glass water, and a thin-mattressed, cot­
doors. One electronically slides like bed. There is little room for 
aside. You enter and it quickly anything else. The cells are 
slides shut. A second barred door painted a dismal, cell-block gray, 
~ 

AlTRACTIVE OPENINGS 
FOR 


FIELD SALES ENGINEERS 
Texas Instruments is continuing to pioneer ad­vanced semiconductor technologies which will revolutionize the electronics industry. We need a rare kind of sales engineer who can interpret these major developments to customers well versed in the state-of-the-art. 
This takes a strong technical electronics back­ground. Enough to understand and stay in close touch with design developments at the home plant, and the technical ability to apply new semiconductor concepts to key customer in­fluences at all levels, including top manage­ment. You will be responsib!e for managing one to two million dollars per year semiconductor business. 
We will supplement successful candidates formal education with a training program at our facilities in Dallas or Houston, Texas. The ma­jority of this time will be spent in real world work assignments learning Texas Instruments in gen­eral and semiconductor activities in particular. Upon completion of this 6 month program, placement will be in one of the major metropol­itan areas of the United States. 
For further information, please contact and send 
a resume to: Frenk Rlcherdson, Dlatrtct Meneger Texealnatrumenta Inc. Peul Welch Bulldlnt, Suite 205 3300South Dixie Ortve· 
Deyton, Ott4o 45439 
(513)211-7513 
TEXAS INSTRUME-NTS 
INCORPORA'J!ED 
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 
EMPLOYER 


quite a few people living here who have made a living at lock-picking, so to keep in practice they have nowhere to turn but to a fellow inmate's cell." 
The Prison Industries 
Between the hours of 6 a.m. and 6p.m., when an inmate is not locked in his cell, he is always assigned to a specific location. He spends the greatest part of his day working in one of several prison industries. 
Most inmates are employed in the prison's most popularly recognized industry -the license plate factory, or "tag shop". Others produce soap for various 

and any "homemaking" is doubtful whether many inmates prison uses or tum out the blue­decorations must be provided by will be able to afford the $100 which denim inmate uniforms in the the personal TV sets are expected tailor shop. For each day's work in 
the inmates themselves. It is not to cost. one of these industries, an inmateunusual to find a cell decorated as 
uniquely and carefully as a college Just as a carefully decorated cell receives 70 cents. The prisoners dormitory room. Posters, is a common cellblock sight, so is it use this small amount to purchase calendars, and magazine clippings common to find, ironically enough, personal items such as coffee or provide most of the decoration. an additional pad-lock adorning a cigarettes at the prison com­"Girlie" pin-ups, however, are few cell door. During the daytime missary. At such a small pay-rate, and far-between, for inmate hours when the cells are not it is no wonder few inmates are subscriptions to magazines such as automatically locked, each inmate expected to be capable of pur­Playboy or Penthouse are for­has access to his own cell with a chasing $100 television sets. 
bidden. key. Several instances of personal Prisoners• Activities 
Although a three-channel, theft, however, have caused many headphone radio system is piped inmates to install additional pad-The remaining hours of a into each cell, many cells are locks on their cell doors for ad-prisoner's day, between the end of equipped with personal transistor ditional protection. the workday and supper-call, along 
radios. Plans for private television As prison education director Mr. with free weekend hours, find viewing are also being made, but it Mel Wenzel notes, "There are (continued on page ll) 
~~~~------~--------~~, 

The Windiammer 
has it 
all for 
you••• 
*three expert barber/stylists 
*complete line of RK hair care products 
*relaxed atmosphere 
*special attention given to 
graduation and "going 
II 
h •

horne atrcuts. 
All SeiYices by Appolnfmeltf. 
Ohe W~nJjammer 
MAla SmtNO Foe OISCIUIMNATINO MIN & lOTS 




Tuesday, May 1, 1973 the observer 
7 






SLADE Slayed? 

Action packed super-music from a vibrant English foursome. Slade's raw energy pows through in such hits as "Mama Weer All Crazee Now" and "Gudbuy T'Jane". 

MANDRILL Composite Truth 
Energy, fire, electricity .•• fused in Latin, rock and soul, from the powerful band which zoomed out of the streets of New York. Includes "Fencewalk" and "Out With The 
Boys". 




ERIC CLAPTON ROY AYERS' UBIQUITY Clapton Red Black and Green 
A knockout a I bum from knockout Ubiquitous means "everywhere at guitarist Eric Clapton. Includes once" and this dynamite "Bell Bottom Blues", "Have You everywhere at once, with rock, jazz Ever Loved a Woman" and "Nobody and good ol' down-home funk turned Knows You When You're Down and on everywhere. Take home smooth Out". ballad sounds of "Ain't No Sun­
shine", and "Henceforth" from the movie "Parades". 
ALBUMS 5. 98 list NOW 3.33 




loAorJ 

S-TRACK TAPES6.98·1ist NOW 4.44 
Open Sunday 11 am to 7 pm Mon.-Sat. 1Oam '" 1Opm 
---~------------~---~------·---------------------~ 
Peripheral Divisian A Mixed Dish 


t.c. treanar 
I was putting the last touches in my Final Ever Observer Column, a compendium of all the sagacity I have piled up over yars at Notre Dame, when my spy from the Federal Bureau of Astronomy burst into my room. He had a report from the planet Leath, which had been discovered only twenty years ago. The planet set four-and-a-half light years distant, and ever since its discovery in the U.S. we have been trying to contact the inhabitants of that bizarre world. 

l 
( Just last night, we received word from the top·3~ret mission of Number forty-four, the mysterious robot. That automaton relays a sohf:ring and mournful tale, and I gladly relinquish my column space 
't 
to h1m, as he shows how the planet U>ath differs \nits fundamental oddities from our happy globe. 
"On the planet Leath, nothing ever follows in logical order. What a 

l 
sad world it is! No one trusts anyone else; political I~ders and men of authority lie with impunity, and the commou pet:-i)ie suffer.t "While I was there, for example, two of tne r .os• irnoortant nations promised for _two years to join forces ir-behlf ,,iace, harmony, 
t 
and cooperation. Then they launched iuto ~ cat:..:c1ysmic war with

l 
each other--giving no explanation." How allen this seems to me coming as I do from Earth--and from Notre Dame. ' ' 

·t( "In addition to the political difficulties, the planet Leath has no consistency of physical form! There are no physical laws here­
i 
everything is fluid. I have seen gardens, fields, grow and flourish­

{ 
and suddenly be turned into deserts of despair-for no reason at all. 
"On the planet Leath, the sentient life-form calls itself 'Siug.'­despite the fact that physically, at least, it resembles the human. The Slug worships a diety it calls 'Uncle Miltie,' and elects, as its chief religious figure, a 'head Slug.' 
"The individual Slug, once born, has two options-it can make itself aware of its surroundings, and thus miserable, or it can drive itself into a sort of happy oblivion, celebrating rituals that mock its sen­

t 
babhkMfns 

I 
l say welcome home,

I 
Didn't we miss your smtlin' face? Well the sun was hot in L.A.

r 
Sunshine.

( 
Isn't it nice to be home again? -James Taylor

f Home is the greatest four-letter word in the English language. The euphony of it describes its meaning. Soft-sounding, relaxing, effortless to say, it is a welcome word to the weary lips that must
1. contend with such difficulties as school, political, selfish, un­concerned and self-centered Yes, home is a good word. 
And for someone who has finally reached his twenty-first bir­thday and almost reached his diploma, home is a good feeling also. Home is something entirely different to me this May than it has ever been before.
1 
Going home this summer does not mean temporary residence for 
the purpose of gainful employment. Home, for the first time since 
( September of 1969, is home. I am finally moving back in without 
( any immediate plans to move out. In fact, it is a strange feeling not 
( knowing when your next change of atmosphere will take place. I 
( know, however, that two weeks after I am home, I won't feel like I've ever left. 
Home welcomes all of us. Unlike friends and lovers of our pasts, our homes do not forget us. We never llose contact because we're ignored; because eventhoughwe may ignore or resent our homes, they neverignore·nor resent us. The door is ever-open, and home always beckons. 
Home means people. Different people for each home, yet in many ways all the same. Home means little ones, (yes, brats at times lbut its impossible to deny the feeling their eyes and smiles convey when they realize that you are finally home. Being the youngest of five, my little ones are nephews and nieces, but there is precious little distinction between them and siblings. 
Home means parents and grandparents. Maybe having only one of each has made me appreciate them more. Home is the twice-a­week letter from Mom that you secretly. enjoy. (How many of your high school friends are you still writing to'1) And home is the sacrifices that everyone made to send you here. 
Home is the interest that is taken in you, C"Bob, what are they 

tient heritage, and make it little better than the animals. Invariably, 
it chooses the latter. · 1 "I spoke with the head Slug-an old man, with thick white hair and 
heavy white moustache and ample muscles bunched at the neck. He 
was sentient, and he was sorry-the sorrow a monster with long teeth, 
hanging onto his soul like a leech. 
"He took me to a fertile garden, with fat juicy fruit and the smell of 
God all around, and told me his vision of the truth. 'I don't know­
those are the only important words,' he said, 'there is no redemption 
to-be found, no system. The animals are happy, but not men. We 
cannot recognize the things of value-because the things of value 
don't last. There is only one lesson I have ever learned...' and sud­
denly a great fog rose around us, and when it dissapated, the garden 
was gone, too-all that was there was the desert, and a single blade of 
grass. 'Love the Fragments, he said, and bent over the blade. 'Love 
the fragments,' he whispered. 
"Later, I saw a worship-service for Uncle Miltie. The crowd drank 
from an anoydyne, which made them roll and roar like the animals. 
They danced the Ritual dance and chanted the ritual chant. A great 
voice arose: "How glad I am that you have come to dine with me 
and to share my bill of fare!" Then the fog again, and when it lifted I 
saw the bill of fare: the Head Slug, bound and ready for consumption. 
His face was full of resignation; he was ready to become the 
fragments he so loved ... " 
Here the report ended, and I gave an involuntary shudder, so glad I 
was to be at Notre Dame, safe and secure. I gave my spy a glance, as 
if to ask what the report meant. But he was gazing rapturously 
towards the balcony; the play was clearly drawing towards a close.
"I drink to good Queen Bess-The better the ruler, tibular the less!! ..._._________________ 
;' 
r 

; 



Bringin' It On Home 
Good health and good-bye!" 
I checked my own tibia, and muttered, slack-jawed, "Good health and g~-bye! :· 
writing about you now?"), andthe worry and the concern they have for whatever it is you think is important to you now. Home is not being able to understand, and yet not ever giving up trying to 
understand. 
It has taken this hardened and cynical senior a long time to realize what my home and family mean to me. How often have I said I would never make it through an entire summer at home? Now I anxiously await my role as full time law student and full time uncle. 
I find that it is extremely easy for those around us to neglect their homes. Appreciation for families is limited in a university en­voirnment. I think part of the reason is that to go away to school was, for most of us, a small rebellion aginst the limitations of home life. To admit appreciation for a home environment now, tends to tear down a bit of the independence and self-sufficiency we have worked so hard to establish. 
Our environment removes us from families, for all practical purposes, for a period of four years. Our friendships are mostly transitory, and by lack of any concrete associations, we lose some respect for the family institution. Yet, I hope that four vears' reflection will lead my fellow students to conclude,as I l'illV"e; mat voluntary removal from my family situation has made me grow to a point of independence such that I can realize the perpetual in­terdependence between myself and my family members. 
Notre Dameis but four years out of alifetime. To become closely attached to it, or to anything else that severely strains family ties is a mistake. Yet to incorporate Notre Dame, or anything or anyone into the bond of your family existance is to enrich all of those whom you love. 
So I humbly suggest that whether this be your first or last summer at home, you should smile when your thoughts turn to it. Smile because home means people who loved you enough to con­ceive, bear, and raise you; people who loved you through your mischievious childhood, through your difficult adolescence and finally loved you enough to sacrifice whatever is necessary to send you to Notre Dame. Also, home is people who will love you fifty years from now when your grandchildren are m college. 
Four years done, and I'm goin' home. I'm tired and I need some rest. I do wanna see all the smilin' faces 'cause it's sure gonna be nice to be home again. 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIiMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII the observer 11111-.t!IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJI...IIIi 
Managing Editor: Joe Abell 
News Editor: Anthony Abowd 
Editorial Editor: Butch Ward 
Wire Editor: Tom Drape 
Features Editor: Beth Hall 
SMC Editor: Maria Gallagher 
Sports Editor: Vic Dorr Associate Editor: Rod Braye 
Assistant Ad Manager: Patti Strobel 
Business Secretary: Ceil Popovich 
Subscriptions Managers: Steve Kane. Matt Lam 
Circulation Manager: Frank Zaletel 
Curculation: Kevin Kelly, Lina Holtcamp 
Production Manager: Joe Wilsowski 
Photography Editor: Joe Raymond 
Photographers: Jim Hunt, Steve Flanagan, Mike 
Budd 
Night Editors: Marlene Zloza. Kathy Schwille, 
Chris Sullivan, AI D'Antonio, Joe Abell 
Day Editors: Mary Janca, Bill Sohn, Jim Gresser, Tom Drape, Mary Egan, Tom Bornholdt News Staff: George Aledo, J. Peter Berry, J. Patrick Boyle, George Brown, Leo Buchignani, 
ThOmas Bundy, Pattie Cooney, John Culligan, Mark Derheimer. Jim Eder, Mary Egan, Kathy Farhart, Jim Ferry, Dan Flatley, Jim Gresser. Ted Guth, Kathy Hesser!, Mary Janca, Bob Johnson, Dave Kaminski, Terry Keeney, Mike Kukzycki, Jim Linsey, Janet Longfellow. Steve Magdzinski, Dean Mayors, Bill McGinn, Tom McKenny, Tom Mirabito, Jeanne Murphy, William Murphy, Bruce Petrovick, Stephen Pettit. Susan Prendergast, Bob Quaken­bush, Mike Rizzo, Jim Rosini, Greg Rowinski, John Rumbach, David Rust (have a good year!), Bill Sabin. Patti Shea, James Shedlock, Bill Sohn, Rick Thues, Tim Truesdell. Mike Welby, Don White, Marlene Zloza. Sports: Jim Donaldson, Stan Urankar, Lefty Rusch­mann, Greg Corgan, Botz McKenny, Pete MeHugh, John Fineran Features: Rev. Robert Griffin, Pat Small, Art Ferranti, Joe Abell, Maria Gallagher, Jim Gresser, ~il Rosini, Kevin O'Neill --tlon: Art Esposito, Tom Tighf Robert 
Baker, Jan Giordano, Kathy Kelly, ~ue Pren­dergast, James Abowd, Bill Brink, Tom Kane, AI Rutherford, George Lund Jim McDermott Photo Screener: Jerome Phillips Ad Salesmen and Layout: Frank Chartier, John Rumbach, Pete Kernan, George Brown, Joe Butler, 
Rich  Naumann,  Pete  Fries.  Ken  Tokolish,  Matt  
Blondin, Dave Erba, Kenny Kampman  
Typists  and  Compugraphic  Operators:  Bob  

Steinmetz, Dianne Chermside, Barb Norcross, Dennis Anastasoff, Steve Roper, John Flannigan, Dave Rust, Phil Orschein, Howard Halle, Tom Modglin, Rob Barriner, Mary Romer, Harry Chung, Jeanne Eastley, Dave Barry, Mike Goetz, Rich MeLoy Copy Editors: Mike O'Hare, Ed Ellis, Mike Baum, Terry Keeney, Rick Thues, Pattie Cooney, Mary Janca Graduating Seniors: Tom Bornholdt, Jim Me Dermott, Steve Kane, Jim Hunt, Kevin Kelly, Steve Flanaga, Chris Sullivan. Neil Rosini, Don White, Jim Donaldson, Stan Urankar, Lefty Rushmann, Art Esposito, Frank Chartier, John Rumbach, Mike O'Hare, Ed Ellis, Mike Baum, Dennis Anastasoff, Rich MeLoy, T.C. Treanor and John m. Abowd.. 
R 
a 
s
•
I 
n
.,
I 
s 


"Gooc 



THE OB. 
AN INDEPENDENT STI 
Jerry
Art Ferranti 
Editor-
Executive Editor 

NEWS: 28 Lee Gentine EDITOR lA Business Manager BUSINESS 
Tuesday, I 

Well Earn 
In any organization, the real hero is the little guy who puts in a lot of time and doesn't get much credit, certainly not his just reward. The Observer has always been lucky to have many of these heroes, and we would like to take the opportunity to thank them. 
The first round of thanks has to go to our reporters, who work under deadline everyday. Their job is difficult and thankless, but they do it well. 
Another round goes out to the night editors, assistant night editors, and night controllers, who often watch the sun . ise from their perches in our LaFortune offices . The small pay they get coold hardly keep any but the most dedicated 

Evalu 
This week students will use the University evaluation forms to express their opinions on the teachers and courses they have taken this semester. The results of the exercise will be compiled and sent to the various department chairmen so that they may intelligently criticize the members of their respective departments. 
One of the primary goals of any University is to promote quality in­struction. This can be done through hiring of quality intructors, but even more important is the constant im­provement of teachers currently em­ployed by the school. This can be done 


L My droogs from the several haunts of the campus convened last 
a 
night around two kegs of Schaefer. These distinguished associates were gathered with me in party caucus because it was time for the last "Gordian Knot," and I needed their careful evaluation of "how it s was on the eve of my last column. Rasputin and Mephistopheles were there, along with a black cat
t two dozen silverfish, T.C. Treanor <which we bounced) and a bro~ and white beagle (who stayed). Scoop Madden was out drinking and could not come, but my network of spies wandered in one by one.
v Even Mega-Rat was there, resting in the corner, exhausted from his 
• recent student body presidential concession speech that wasI delivered from the ROTC building roof to a crowd of wildly 
e 
gesticulating ducks. We did much thinking and drinking that nostalgic night and wew had reports from spies in every hall and heat tunnel on ~ampus. After the discussion, my droogies, inspired beyond mere oral ex­pression and incensed with alcoholic zeal, drafted the following statement of opinion, which I now submit for the consideration of the campus at large: "The university of Notre Dame is today a community seriouslysick,such that it cannot achieve its goals as established before th~ublic by its reputation, tradition and current leadership." ' Now this is quite a sweeping statement, I thought, especially for a crowd of drunks, so rather than end my last "Gordian Knot" with it I thought that, inasmuch as I have a stake in and a feeling for Nob-e Dame, I would explain what my collegaues said as they closed our last party caucus last night. A healthy Notre Dame, it is to be supposed educates its students 
academically and morally, graduating men and women competent 
m. both their chosen vocations and their Catholic faith. Such a
bye" 
-------------------"'Community should be administered by leaders whose legitimacy is 
~ERVER 
IDENT NEWSPAPER 
Lutkus Dan Barrett
n-Chief Executive Editor 
:-1715 .s: 283-8661 John Kloos 283-7471 
Advertising Manager 

-\a-y-1-,--19_7_3--------------­






ed Thanks 
workers from giving up in despair. 
And where would our paper be without the day editors, who time and again have to cajole reporters into doing stories that they don't want to doaThey do a heck of a job. 
We don't have the space to mention the job done by the pictureshooter, cir­culation people, typists, compugraphic opera tors, ad people, and all the rest of theheroes whose names are never in the staff box, but we haven't forgot about them, because they are the backbone of the paper. 
Thanks to all of them. Jerry Lutkus Dan Barrett 
ation 
only by intelligent use of the course evaluation forms. 
Thus The Observer urges every student to use the course evaluation forms distributed this week in an intelligent and sincere manner. The results will help studentstin the future as well as faculty members teaching in various depart­ments. 
Only through serious use of the forms can students demonstrate the success or failure of current faculty and courses, and only through this method of evaluation can faculty be given the op­portunity to improve in their chosen vocation of scholarly inquiry. 
Ed Ellis 

affirmed by the constituent elements of the University. In this 
healthy Notre J?ame, a sense of ~onor s~ould prevail among faculty 
and students ahke, and a productive tension would mark relations at 
the interface between constituencies. In short, such a healthy Notre 
Dame would be testimony to the vitality of the fundamental prin­
ciples of ~e University: scholarship and Christianity. 
Now neither my friends nor I hold scholarshipand Christianity to 
be matters of littled moment. Nor do we hold this scenario of a 
"radica~y innocent" Notre Dame to be a whimsical fancy of equally 
shallow Import. However, we do hold that this University is diseased 
in all its constituent parts and that like a good cancer the disease is tspreadil"'i!:. ' Consider the following symptoms: -The faculty is bitterly divided over the question of University 
. governance, as evidenced by last year's faculty letters. The 
frustration and bitterness goes far beyond any conceivable definition 
of "productive tension." 

-A professor popular among students has returned the Univer­sity's highest teaching <:~ward because of what he called ad-
Dpinian 

ministrative "despotism."
-The Academic COuncil rejected nearly all the recommendation! of the Faculty Se~ate concerning University governance; severa~ were rejected at the specific request of the University President. 
-stud~nts regularly destroy University property, violate ever) standard of moral and ethical behavior, and most graduate from thE school unethical, irreligious , childish, and totally ignorant oi Christian moral teaching.
-A woman grad student was expelled from school in clear violatiot. of every principle of due process and every regulation established by the University itself. Protests were studiously ignored . 
-The introduction of 350 women to an eight-thousand male campm has been called "co-education." -Black studies can't even get a decision from the Student Liff Council.' 
In point of fact, the flesh that is Notre Dame is rotting and, I fear must inevitably fall from the skeleton of Christianity around which it was meant to grow. The school is administered in Byzantine fashior, and produces for the most part, social and moral misfits a~ graduates. This constitutes a sick polity. 
Now this is not meant ito suggest that the Golden Domehousesonl)' miscreants and perverts. My spies tell me that the chief officers ol the University are men talented in their respective fields, who do ar excellent job in their departments. This, I think, we must be willin[ to accept. However, the distrust, bitterness and rampant cvniri~m that seems to inhere in the current system of administration seemf symptomatic of a chronic disorder. Administrators distrust facult-: and students, which feeling is reciprocated, causing double£.; backlash and general misdirection of resources. 
Such a pathology cannot be cured by juggling committees. It cannot be cured by mumbled budgetary statements by tbf. University President. It cannot be cured by repression of any of th~ elements of the critical triad. It can only be cured if each student, teacher, and administrator recognizes the good resident in each member of the University and seeks to increase and benefit fron, that good. We must affirm the tremendous talent, reputation anf tradition of Notre Dame and make that rather than narrow personal concern the foundation of the University polity. 
In short, when I or anyone else says that Notre Dame is sick, WE' mean that the bitterness and distrust of years of unresolved conflict have destroyed the school's ability to graduate educated moral mer, as a matter of course. I have many many great people here in four years, from all parts of the place, and I will find it hard to say good bye when the time comes. But like everyone else, I must leave, and 1 make my farewells with the hope that people will someday soor begin to think, because Notre Dame has the potential to be mucl:. better. 
And so my colleagues went home for the last time, and that is, a~ Samuel Beckett would say, "How it is." 

In Light Of A Boycott 
charlea danavan 
I wish the following remarks to be construed by the reader as an 
open pre:'entation to all members of the University of Notre Dame maneuverin~s ~e wis~es of the workers were consistently ignored commumty, from whom , I hope, serious comment will be elicited. Beyond this disputation, there remained themore solid question o One week ago therewas begun in the dining halls of the University ~he workers' living and working conditions and circumstances. Whil• a bo;rcott of non-UFW lettuce, a step which was taken after 1t was generally appreciated that the lack of cohesive bargainin1 thevotlve approval of the student body in general referendum. The power severely limited the workers' ability to protect themselves o; fac.t ?f the issue had only recently been brought to light by Dr. improve their situation, detailed information as to the presen· Ph1ll1p Fa_ccenda, Vice-President of Student Mfairs, who announced dealings of owners with the workers, represented by the Teamsten the estabhshement of the referendum to register student opinion and or not, was simplynotavailable.TheObserver ran as advertisement! 
re~rt~ the fact that a quasi-boycott had been in effect since the begmmng of the academic year. Assistant Vice-President for StudentAffairs, Fr. James Shilts, attributed this first action to a p~rely administrative decision made by Fr. Jerome Wilson VIce -Pre~ident of Business Affairs, Mr. Edmund Price, Directo; of Food S~rv1ces, and Fr. James Burtchaell, University Provost. 
In the bme between Student Affairs' disclosure of a plan to put the question before the students (who would bear the brunt of the sacrifice involved in the boycott action) and the actual referendum the facts_ of the migratory workers situation were placed before th~ com~umty by the news media, particularly the Observer. If anythmg tangible or rational is to be said of those facts and their presentation, it is that they were at best cumbersome and in­conclusive. 
Th~ issue, eve~yone said. was a complicated one. There were, all ad~mt~ed, tw~ Sides to the question. There was, the Observer ed1tonally posited, only one way to respond: boycott. But, neglecting a series of photographs depicting conditions, all of which stood un docume~ted; els~where, it was written in the Observwer (April 13 pg. 8), . Cahfo~ma farm workers, according to the growers, wer1 well pa1d, particularly lettucepiciters who frequently made $4.50 b $5.00 ~r hour. Fur~ermore, they are well housed, covered by socia ~ecunty, workmen s compensation, and other benefits." To thi! ext~nt were the facts available for the informed electorate. Ef. fectively, of course, all such ambiguity suggested here was resolveci by ~ resoundi~gly positive student vote, a vote which gave to thE nation the affirmed support by the University of Notre Dame ol Cesa.r c.havez and the ~ationallettuce boycott. 
It IS time then, I beheve, to present some clarities, which rna) serve to suggest the presence of a similar issue somewhat closer t(ho~e, of less than. national import, which h~s hitherto gone un 
noticed and unaccla1med. Let me say before I begin that what I havE understood to underlie our community's supportof the boycott anc th~ let~uc~ workers was a sense of ethical principle, the referentE 
for the m.omt-nt the results of the voting, let us return to the question bemg JUstice and decency. I also wish to emphasize that what J of complicatiOn~ a~d a~tempt to see why the problem of the lettuce present entails an open qJiestion, toward which I wish the readeJ wor.kers and umomzat10n was such a difficult one. consistently to keep in mind the foregoing consideration of tht 
First of all, th~re w.as the l?resence of a fundamental right complicated nature of events in the state of California. 
generally recogmz~ m t;\mencan jurisprudence; that is, that worke~s f!!ay orgamze umons to protect themselves and their collective mterests from undue infringement and interference on the part of management. Cesar Chavez' contention and hence the c~mtention behind the national boycott, was that fuis fundamental nght had been denied the workers. But there were, as the Observer duly reported, other principles involved. These were evident in the qu~tions of c.ompulsory union membership for the migrant workers, and m the cla1m of some that what was occurring was no more than a jurisdictional dispute between the Teamsters (who represented a number of the workers) and the UFW (which was seeking to represent all workers). The California Supreme Court ruled, to be sure, that the matter was not a jurisdictional one because of certain 
I ~ould n?t pretend to say that such facts as I have presentee herem constitute the complete picture, just as I would not say that 7f ~r cent of the s~udent vote went for a boycott based on a completE p1c~ure ..1 do ne1ther contend that the owners of lettuce farms ir ~ah.forma and food service management at Notre Dame obstruct JUS~Ice ~nd depreciate human dignity. Nor do I offer that what thE Umvers1t1 of ~otre Dame .does for its national image and what it does for Its children are disparate functions. 
What I. wi~h to logica~ly and constructively present to this entin commumty 1s the followmg proposition: to wit, in terms of the facts prese_ntly available to thestudents, in terms of the principles of action to Which we have all referred ourselves, that in atleast one of the two cases before us, the community has behaved irresponsibly and in· 
coll_usiv~ be~avior exhibited by the growers and the Teamsters. The sensitively. Cahforma _high court did by no means rule that the UFW was the . Invol~ed are all, and I leave the question to the honest con­proper umon for the workers, nor that all workers ought to be Sideration of each and everyone involved. If there is more to be compel~edto join Chave~' union. Significantly, the Court underscored learned, if there is a simple resolution of the apparent discrepancy the basic problem, wh1ch we shall see allain presently, that in all ~fore us, may such be brought to light, and may this article be 
v1ewed as a call upon the knowledgeable to bring it forth. 
the observer Tuesday, May 1, 1973 



what's cooking with father burtchaell 
Many students have never seen Fr. James 
T. Burtchaell in his Roman collar, and even fewer have seen him in the long white lab apron he likes to wear when he's in the kitchen. Most know him as University Provost, or assistant rector of Dillon Hall, rather than gourmet cook. But Fr. Burt­chaell would rather talk about cooking than just about anything else. 
A glimpse at Burtchaell's background makes it only logical that he sould ap­preciate good foods. His grandmother <"A very good cook," Burtchaell recalled) at­tended the famous Cordon Bleu school of cooking in France, and his mother was "An even better cook," although she received no formal culinary education. 
"I first became interested in cooking when I was a student overseas-in England, Europe, and the Middle East," he related. "I began to pay careful attention to the wines and food; sometimes I'd even go in the kitchen and watch the cook." 
Burtchaell started to try his own hand "in earnest" about seven years ago when he returned to the United States. 
"I see cooking as both an art and a hob­by," he said. "I like it because it coincides with hospitality. Often I have the op­portunity to be a host, but rarely at the dinner table." 
enjoys cook rule 

Apparently it is a role Burtchaell greatly enjoys. He cooks once a month for the deans of the University ("Always something experimental, but they don't complain"), and every Thanksgiving "for people who are stuck here." Last Thanksgiving, he cooked a Hawaiian dinner for eighteen atop the library that was a complete departure from the traditional fixings. 
"I enjoy sharing things I've made," he explained. "It's rare today when one can make things with one's own hands." 
Burtchaell compared pre-prepared foods such as canned or frozen t.v. dinners to 
' "those paint-by-number kits. There's no creativity in them; it's not really your ownwork." 
Burtchaell adheres to the adage, "too many cooks spoil the broth." 
"I always cook alone-it's my 'therapy'­very relaxing. I usually spend hours by myself Ofl\a meal, and it's a welcome break." 
"I start with a cookbook and go beyond it­adding my own touches to the basic recipe, and experimenting." 
Burtchaell has no single favorite recipe, although he does recommend his oyster stew recipe that appears in The Notre Dame Cookbook. He likes a variety of foods, but is partial to French cuisine. 
The off-campus student should take a strong interest in cooking, Burthcaell believes, and take advantage of the bp­portunity to work with a stove-an op­portunity which Burtchaell regrets more on­campusers can't share. 
"Most of them are very spoiled," he contends. "They're used to being served all their lives, and they've just discovered that food costs a lot. A lot of them waste money on expensive shortcut foods. When I was a student in Germany, everyone <the students) made his own breakfast and supper. Students here are used to having food prepared for them rather than doing it themselves." 
Burtchaell scoffs at the proposal of off­campus students to have a University­operated co-op. 
"It's another example of what I was just saying. They've just got to learn how to cope with high food prices-they certainly won't be able to avoid them after they graduate." 
Burtchaell urges the study of "how to make inexpensive meals look attractive." Much of this, he feels, will develop if there is a genuine enjoyment from working in the kitchen. 
"Shopping is a large part of the fun of cooking," the Provost believes. 
Burtchaell said he would like to see a change in custom in American household cooking habits. He feels that menshould take a larger share in the cooking duties than an occasional summer barbecue, or preparing salads. 
"A large part of Thomas Wolfe's novels were devoted to descriptions of the food hismother cooked," Burtchaell noted. 
Burtchaell is strongly opinionated on the subject of restaurants. 
on restaurants 

"The cook makes the whole restaurant," he firmly belives. · 
Burtchaell also explained how to dif­ferentiate between an "ordinary" and a "superior" restaurant. 
"A menu like every other place indicates a trite restaurant. Anywhere you can get steaks, chops, a duck-always a due~ in orange sauce-and seafood .,latter, but m a good restaurant the cook will include some of his own special recipes." 
"A good restaurant takes pride in its 
materials. You'll' never see ketchup on the 
tables. They'll use olive oil instead of Crisco 
(here he pauses for derogatory emphasis), 
and good butter. Be suspicious if you're 
servedJoo large a portion; that usually in­
dicates a lower quality of food. In a good 
restaurant, you can't eat a whole lot of any 
one course-it's just too much." 

"A really good restaurant pays very little 
for furnishings and decoration. L'Orangerle 
Thank you who made 
in San Francisco is as plain as a service station bathroom, but the food is out­standing." Burtchaell also cited the Oyster Bar under Grand Central Station in New vo...k as another example of sparing decoration but fine fare. 
In the South Bend area, Burtchaell commented that "there's no single all­around good restaurant," quickly conceding that Dean Emil T. Hofman was NO's expert on Michiana restaurants. 
"However, several of them offer single excellent entrees. Al's Bar on Lincoln Way West has great goulash, and the Capri has superb veal cacciatore and fettucini although it's not listed on the menu." 
Burtchaell offered a quick overview of around-the-world cuisine. · 
"There are very few trained cooks in America. They haven't the pride in their work that the Europeans have. There was awful food in Jerusalem, but sometimes we'd get ducks and cook them ourselves. In France or Italy you can get a good meal almost anywhere. You can wander in to the smallest, most obscure restaurant and there will inevitably be good food-it's something consistent in both countries." He winces at the thought of England. "In England it's easy to get a bad meal anywhere." 
on cookbooks 
In cookbooks, Burtchaell confessed owning several of Julia Childs's, but he does not like Graham Kerr's. However, he favors both cooking programs on television and while he does not care particularly for Kerr's recipes he agrees with 1the spirit with which they are presented. 
"I think it's great to expose the public to alternate methods of cooking than what they're probably used to. Both cooks seem to enjoy their programs and convey enjoyment on them-which is what cooking is essentially all about." 
Burtchaell debunked the theory that cooking must be necessarily "complicated and exotic" in order to be good. 
"It's a shame that French cooking isn't more widely cultivated. People seem to believe that it's ·more complicated than it really is." 
Burtchaell further regretted that there is a "dying of the old traditions" in American homes. 
"There's no more handing down of 'how things are done' from mother to daughter. Most girls who get married today don't even know how to cook sauces." 
For the fledgling gourmet, Burtchaell offered several tips. 
"Start with one book, just one, and work your way through it. Don't get a big book. Something like The Joy of Cooking is fine. Julia Child is a bit exotic for the beginner, 
to all those An Tostal a 
success. Pictured here are only a few of those who spent many hours planning, organizing, building-and finally, playing. 
maria gallagher. 
but not bad." 

Improvisation, Burtchaell believes, is the key to making cooking individual and really enjoyable. 
"Find a good cook and watch a while. Don't be afraid to experiment on your own." 
He warned,however, that "it will take some years to grow," and urged beginners not to be disappointed in initial failures. 
Does the Notre Dame dining hall offend his gourmet tastes' Not at all, said Burt­chaell. 
"I eat in the pay cafeteria often enough to know what the students are getting," he said. "It's probably the best bargain you ean get anywhere, and not bad considering the amounts that must be served." He then added with a grin, "Ifyou think it's bad now, you should have had it when I went here! 'fhere's a substantial improvement." 
cafeteria beer? Burtchaell said he favors serving beer in the dining halls if Indiana lowers the drinking age to eighteen. This, he believes, would reduce it to the status of "just another beverage," which is all he thinks it should be. He was optimistic about the bill's passage, but said there could possibly be a compromise at age nineteen. Burtchaell said he was pleased with the growth of American interest in wines, but blanches at the mention of "pop wines." "I put BFA in the same category as dope," he said. He believes that those same people who drink the cheaper brands today will be drinking good wines in five years if they are serious about quality. Burtchaell feels that all American wines without I exception are inferior to their European counterparts. "But they shouldn't be," interjects Burtchaell. "After the war destroyed many of Europe's vineyards, the American vines were shipped over there. There's no ap.: preciable £difference in our soils or climates, and our processing methods are certainly far more advanced." Again, Burtchaell attributed American inferiority to a lack of pride in preparation. Burtchaell said he hoped to sometime take a group of students to Europe for a few weeks "just to learn to appreciated different types\Of cuisine." He suggested that they could possibly earn credit for sampling and comparing different types of wines and food. "I'd love to do it sometime, but I don't know when I'd ever have time. I'm busy in the summer, and Christmas is too cold... spring break would be ideal..."he mused. What's that University policy that only fifteen students are needed to petition a course? 






Tuesday! May 1, 1973 the observer 1 1 

Leisure time hard to fill inside penitentiary 
(continued from page 6) 
inmates participating in a variety of activities. The prison's recreation area is often a popular place for passing these hours. Outdoor facilities such as basketball courts, baseball diamonds, and a rather run-down miniature golf course are provided in this area, as well as an indoor gymnasium equipped with weightlifting equipment, a 
basketball court, and ceiling­
mounted television sets for 
bleacher viewing. 
Although most inmates making use of the recreathn area do so on strictly a part-tin. basis, several prisoners deem. inca!lable of work in one of the prison industries for physical or psychological reasons are assigned to the recreation area full-time, ac­cording to education director Wenzel. 
"There they live a mor~r-less 
vegetable existence," he says, "for 
the prison provides no other 
function for them." 
While several other prison ac­tivities are conducted on_ an in­stitution-wide scale (such as. 'weekend movies pooulat.."R-rated films can be show~. but no "X's), most inmate activites are formed on individual or small-group bases, and some are truly unique. 
One inmate employed in the 
prison tailor shop spends all of his 
free tim~> ;n the shop's basement 
repairinb , toys donated for 
distribution to charitable 
organizations at Christmas. Boxes 
and boxes of toys, repaired and 
ready to be shipped, line the cellar 
walls, and the mounds of broken 
toys still to be repaired are even 
larger. 
In addition to repairing broken 
toys, this tailor shop employee and 
several helpers produce their own 
creations, ranging from hand­
made, wooden, toy circus wagons 
and Budweiser beer wagons to 
various forms of hand-made 
candles. "'"-quests for these ar­
ticles usually run well ahead of 
production, and selling prices run 
from a dollar or two for candles to 
thirty dollars for the four-foot long 
beer wagons. Any money an 
inmate attains by selling his work 
is placed in apersonal prison ac­
count to be spent or saved at his 
discretion. 
The toy and candle makers are 
but several of many accomplished 
inmate , artists. Quite a large 
number of prisoners do fine work 
in sketching and painting. 
Browsing through the prison art 
gallery, one might easily get the 
impression he is viewing a 
professional art exhibition. The 
majority of the works on display 
would bring top dollar in a 
professional art market, but the 
inmate artisits usually charge far 
less. The largest amount ever 
recieved by an inmate for his work 
was $75 for a large painting per­
sonally commissioned by a 
clergyman for a church 
decoration. 
The range of subjects and styles 
employed by the inmate artists is 
as broad as the spectrum of their 
personal backgrounds. Portraits, 
landscapes, even caricatures are 
represented. One inmate 
specializes in providing a three 
dimensional effect to his work by 
building out his sketch image in 
clay or paper mache' before the 
fmal painting. Another inmate 
artist obviously appreciates the 
artistic elements of the feminine 
form, as his easel adorned with 
painting of a voluptuously posed 
nude woman demonstratees, 
"We doo't normally approve of 
tbe inmates cboosiDg such sub­
jects," says education director 
'WeDzel , "but nor do we take any 
action We8s it becomea a habit." 
Alted where an inmate miebt· 
obtain a model for such a ~f!DI, 
Mr. Wenzel replied, A terrifle 
memory, a terrilk memory." 
The artistic: eadeavon of Ja­dlana State Prlaoa inmates, however, are DOt limited to thoee of 
. painter'S and toy maken. 1i1.uJ inmatea are aecompu.Jted 
musicians and a can often be heard practicing in their cells or par­ticipating in impromptu jam sessions. While country-western musicians seem to be the most abundant in the prison, blues and rock artists are also quite com­mon. Walking past the prison chaplain's office, one might hear a group of a dozen inmate musicians practicing a rock opera written by a black inmate bass player. Needless to say, with all of this inmate musical talent, the prison often schedules performances and talent shows, one of which is an­nually open to the public. 
Boredom Hours 
While personal hobbies consume free time of many prisoners, most inmates, however, still find their leisure hours filled with nothing but boredom and unconstructive hours filled with inothing but boredom and unconstructive ac­tivity. It is such a fact that makes many inmates criticize the Indiana State Prison administration for being "totally custody-minded" rather than being concerned with. inmate rehabilitation. 
As on inmate puts it, "They bring you in here to cure your 'social ills' and make you want to get an honest job when you get out. But how do they go about doing it? They stick you in a cell half a day and the other half make you work in the Tag shop. You call that rehabilitation? I don't know about you, but I don't know too many places outside that are looking for experienced license plate makers." 
Prison Education 
While inmate complaints such as 
this are far form uncommon, the 
fact remains that the prison does 
offer several rehabilitation 
programs in educational and 
vocational areas. But for each of 
these programs there exists a 
strong inmate criticism. 
According to prison policy, any 
inmate desiring to take part in an 
education program in place of 
being assigned to one of the prison 
industries may do so. Instead of 
reporting to the tag shop or soap 
factory, he attends each day a 
program of classes taught by one 
of three full-time teachers or 
several inmate-teachers. Classes 
taught are primarily adult basic 
education courses and courses 
aimed at providlng an inmate with 
a high school diploma equivalent. 

According to one middle-age inmate-teacher, 35 per cent of the prison's inmate population is functionally illiterate. But a total of only 12 per cent attend daily classes. The reason? "Money," says the inmate-teacher. "It JUSt doesn't pay to be a student in prison. While tag shop workers make 70 cents a day, students only get 20 cents. And even though either one isn't much, there's quite a difference between four and 14 dollars a month when it comes to buying coffee and cigarettes." 
While education direector Wenzel agrees that money does probably play some part in keeping illiterate inmates out of classes, he feels that individula personal reasons are far more applicable. "Many inmates simply feel that they've done alright so far in life without an education, so why bother with oen now?", says Mr. Wnezel. 
The relatively small attendance of. optional evening classes run by Notre Dame and St. Mary's students under the direction of SMC associate education professOr Sr. Margaretta Reppen · wou.ld appear to support Mr. Wenzel's contention. One SMC volunteer even relates how one inmate at­tending the twice-a week evening sessions showed little interest in his studies and remarked, "All I want to learn to do is write my name on the writ to get me out of here, and I've got 25 years to do it, so I'm in no hurry." 
But the fact remains that there 
are many inmates at Indiana State 
Prison who earnestly desire an 
education, and they are quick to 
promote new education programs. 
"What this place needs is an 
evening class program run every 
night of the week," says another 
inmate-teacher. "We not only look 
forward to the classes for the 
schooling but for just the chance to 
talk with people from the outside " 
Lack of Funds for Education 
Education director Wenzel agrees that a nightly education program would indeed be valuable, but because of space limitations and the lack of per­sonnel to supervise visiting grouJI;, such ideas are just too impractical. "Certainly we'd like to provide better programs," says Mr. Wenzel. 'The warden has never vetoed .any of our suggestions for better education. But we just don't have the money 
Weekend buses to follow Angela 
by Terry Keeny Staff Reporter 
Weekend bus runs between Notre Dame and St. Mary's will continue to use the Angela Blvd. route after1i:OO pm on Friday and Saturday nights when the electric gate th the U.S. 31 bus entrance will be removed and the iron swing gate will be locked. 
This action is necessary ac­cording to Security Director Ar­thur Pears because of the repeated vandalism of the elctric gate on Jet weekend nights. Pears said that as 
~ as four or five gates were 
broken a week at a cost of $15 per 
gate. 
The bus drivers refuse to use the iron gate exit because they have to leave the bus to unlock and swing the gate open. On occasion when the bus driver has left the bus to 


MC Senlers 
If YOU; ~lh •dditioluI 
tr•~· i •nnouncements, 
sitn .up tonight 
in the SMC catetert.. 

unlock the gate a student has gotten into the drivers seat and driven away with the.uDi." On all of thes occasions the bus has been immediately recovered but the bus company does not care to put its property or passengers in such heopardy. 
any more to do it." 
Nor are the prison's basic education programs the only rehabili tation efforts suffering from lack of funds. The prison offers various vocational learning opportunites in such fields as auto­mechanics, welding, upholstering, refrigeration, and radio-TV repair, but according to many inmates, the equipment used to teach these skills is so limited and out of date that any prisoner -attempting to obtain a job in his trained field after his release would find himself lost in a world of new techniqu"es entirely foreign to him. As one inmate remarks, "You just can't learn to fix a '73 Ford engine when you're learning on a '63 Chevy." 
Money Indeed, after aU of the various arguments concerning prison rehabilitation are aired, one single word appears to provide the chief answer to the entire problein money. As with prisons all across the ·country, state funds are simply not great enough to provide adequate, advance rehabilitation programs. Salaries for student inmates cannot be raised to make education more appealing. Salaries for full-time prison educators cannot be boosted to lure greater numbers of first-rate 
teachers into reform education. Funds cannot be raised to provide vocational training programs with mooern, up-to-date equipment. And the list goes on and on and on. 
But the fact that such a growing list of financial difficulties can be halted is obvious. An increased awareness on the part of state legislators concerning the lack of funds for prison rehabilitation could lead to a state budget foredistribution favoring finan­cially staved prisons. But the big question remains, will such an increased awareness ever occur? One can only hope that legislators will recognize the difficultieS before the arrival of a time when it makes little difference whether a prison is custody or rehabilitation oriented, when it can afford custody and nothing more. 



MAY GRADUATES! 
ASSOCIATES PERSONNEL SERVICES was recently for­med as a subsidiary company of ASSOCIATES COR­PORATION OF .NORTH AMERICA to better service the ever-increasing need of professional personnel seeking College Graduates to enter superb management training programs. Currently we are representing several large companies seeking professionals in .the following fields; ACCOUNTING, DATA PROCESSING, SALES, AD­MINISTRATION, AND TECHNICAL AREAS 
Now is the time to start giVing serious thought regarding your future. We ask that you let our Professional Staff of Personnel Analysts assist and guide yau in this very it:q­portant period. 'If you are currently seeking to make a desirable career move, please call or com~in CGilfidenceto: 
ASSOCIATES PERSON-NEL SERVICE 
1030 E. Jefferson Blvd. 
South Bend Ind. 46604 
219-233-2132 

A licenced employment agency 


Seniors·· Reminder 
Subscrlb• to The Observer next September. Send no money now. We will bill you In September. After you pay then, we will mall the Issues. Send your manlne addr•s with zip to 7he Observer: lox Q: "fhe University of Notre Dame: 
Notre Dame, -Ind. 46556.K.., In touch with the co•pus happenlnas, for only $1.00 a ..mester or $14.00 a year. Congratulations on graduation• 

the observer Tuesday, May, 1, 1973 

Art dept marks Fieldhouse's 15th birthday 
by Bruce Petrovick excellent new home for his dergraduate art students rooms. useless and the roof leaks in proportions. Even with Staff Reporter students. In the original football lOcker several places. remodeling the life expectancy of 
Though few people knew it and Students also joined the cause by room, the student sponsored The maintenance department the Fieldhouse would have been even fewer attended the activities, forming the University Arts gallery Isis operates. has tried to keep up on repairs, but only 20 years while that of a new 
the Notre Dame Fieldhouse Council and campaigning to save The arena section, added in 1925, the roof is so unsafe that the safety building would be 50 years. celebrated its 75th birthday the Fieldhouse. The issue was is run by the Art Department risk is not the repairs. Students Ellerbe concluded that the Saturday evening with a program brought to the University Vice which provides studios for many of once attempted to take matters Fieldhouse was obsolete· and 
sponsored by the Art Department Presidents Council who authorized its faculty members under the into their own hands and repair the should be torn down and replaced. and including ice cream, music, temporary Art Department use of north stands. leaks themselves but the insurance Dr. Fern saw the Fieldhouse as a movies and retired track coach the building. The dirt track and basketball company stepped in and stopped building the art students would like Alex Wilson, who added historical Again the Fieldhouse began to court are waiting for funds which the dangerous activity. to work in so he supported the background to the program. bustle with, student.activity, but of will provide partitions., but until The outside of the Fieldhouse Fieldhouse. To the artists the Though the Art Dept. is a a different nature than in the past. that time, an experimental also shows the damage of the In­Fieldhouse with its high ceilings 
newcomer to the Old Fieldhouse, Basketball, baseball, track, and "Theatre in the Round" operates diana weather. Though the bricks and heritage constitutes an ex­their relationship is a deep one. boxing practices were gone and on the basketball court. Projects are in good condition the mortar cellent creative atmosphere. The Fieldhouse was scheduled to artists with their equipment like Brother James Faul's between is eroding steadily. These The Administration had hoped be razed !in the summer of 1969, moved in. sculpture of a man in Indiana walls support the whole building that the merger with St. Mary's when Dr. Thomas Fern, Chairman The Arts Council and the Art limestone will continue also. and the danger of the building's would solve thr problem of a home of the Art Department came to the Department now share the Though the Fieldhouse is the collapse increases constantly. for the Art I'.:nt. However when rescue by asking for the building to Fieldhouse. The west end of the home for many noble enterprises In 1970 the University in­the two utstitutions failed to house the Art Department. At that building, built in 1898, formerly the Indiana weather shows no vestigated a plan to renovate the merge the Fieldhouse continued to time the department was housed the boxing room where mercy and the condition of the Fieldhouse with Ellerbe Architects be the home of the artists. outgrowing its quarters in Dominick Napolitan trained his Fieldhouse is suffering. The roof is and discovered that the cost of As the 75th birthday celebration 
O'Shaugnessy Hall and Fern felt boxers and launched the Bengal the biggest problem. The down­redevelopment would exceed the closed it looked as if it would the Fieldhouse would make an Bouts. Now it houses un-spouts and gutter systems are cost of a new building of similar continue to be the home until the Indiana Administrative Building Council tells the University to make repairs or tear down the building.

P.O. Box Q 
Short Montessore

$700,ooo-plus donated by the Holy That would be to overlook the very 
Training Program

Cross Fathers and Brothers to the sad jack-ass braying on and on 
Just 2 weeks

University of Notre Dame Cor­when there is no one left to listen. 
July 9 · 20 in Chicago

poration not too many weeks ago. Respectfully, 
Learn how to be effective with 
That donation comprised the total Joseph Runde 
children. Write: 
MAC·O

salaries of the Holy Cross Priest 448 Lyons 
1010 w. Chico.

and Brothers serving Notre Dame 
Chica o 60602 

during the past twelve months. Sincerely, <Rev) Edmund J. Murray, C.S.C. 
Thanks, MD leers 
Editor: 
To Father Riehle, Mr. E.T. Price, Mr. Arthur Pears, Kathy Cekanski, "Moose" Mulcahy, ~lenD¥ Madden . .Jlnd last but not !east . Eddie tBumbacco: 
Just a note to share our thanks and appreciation for your playing such a big part in the success of the 1st annual Badin-Walsh vs. Alumni Hockey Game for Muscular Dis trophy. We all had a great time playing and hope that all those watching had as much fun as we did participating. 
Thanks for being such good sports and risking '"life and limb" for such a worthwhile cause. 
Phil Byrne 
Peggy Pollara 
Terri Skeehan, 
Susan Andersen FOR f'AORE INFO,. CONI"'A~T~ 
P.S. A Very special thanks also 
CRAIG KAPSON 

goes out to the people in the ACC 
or 

who so kindly supplied · us with ice time, 1equipment and valuable 
LOIS TRANTER assistance. 
JORDON MOTORS 25-9-J9.8 J 


The Real Loser 
Editor: It is not T.C. Treanor who is the "biggest loser lof them all." No. 







CASH I 
for your 

text books 

sell those books/ 
A buyer from the largest book clearing house will be on hirnd to purchase all kinds of college textbooks. 
May 9, 10 and 11 at Notre Dame Bookstore 
FOLLET COLLEGE BOOK COMPANY--Chicago 

Cost Of Caring 

Editor: 
I'm tired this evening. I'm suffering from the weariness that follows the end of an involvement. The political confusion has finally come to a resolution. So I'mltired, and somewhat confused about what to do next. How different it would have been had that cam­paign, joked about during January lunches, and fought in February snows, had ended, (as any decent political campaign should), at the time of elections. But this one didn't, it refused to die until now. 
I feel alone this evening. I'm wondering why I allowed myself to become so entangled in University affairs, or why I ever wanted to I'm asking myself these questions for at least the thousandth tirxre. There is still no answer that I ,can understand. The lesson of the past months is that such political entanglements can be spiritually devastating 1 One often hears of deceit and lying, but the worst are the lies you tell yourself. You can constantly try to be 1ruthful but gradually you change. Each person you meet . causes subtle manipulations in your character, until,you no longer represent one~ person but rather many strangers housed in one ego. 
This has been a frivolous ad­

venture, especially for someone 
who has been around as long as I 
have. Long-graduated com­
panions haunt me as I think about 
their reactions and derisions if 
they discovered this last attempt 
at campus prominence l Old 
friends are now in graduate school 
or working in the "real" 
world,while I'm here, still playing 
undergraduate games. A silly 
thought but one that comes oc­
casionally. 
I've been told that I'm naive. HI 

am I hope I remain so. HI have 
changed, I hope it is not for the 
worse, but I am grateful for the 
friends who have stayed by me 
during the changes. 
So it is over now. I'm tired this 
evening. I am feeling alone and 
somewhat confused about what to 
do next. 
Matt Kubik 


Hesburgh 
And 
neither has gained any national recognition for their fair­mindedness. Definitely, the Watergate Case needs a person who is recognized by the entire nation as being honest, non­political, and objective. That man is our own Father Hesburgh. 
· Everyone is aware of the work that Father Hesburth has done for social justice in the United States. He has also never worked on a political campaign, nor has he publically supported any one candidate. Nevertheless, he has always deplored social inequities and violations of individuals' rights. It is impossible to argue that individual rights have not been violated in the Watergate Case, but the. problem of who the real violators were still confronts us. Father Hesburgh could be the very person that the country needs to clear up this political scandal and restore a sense of honesty to the American government. 
Of course, Notre Dame should not go unpaid for the rendering of the services of our President to the United States 1 Congress could verywell grant Notre Dame a three mjJ!ion dollar endowment The ~ eame<tlrom This grant could be used for a number of purposes. Designating this in­terest to either minority recruitment ~r,to certain academic pursuits would be of great value to the University. 
In the end, all three parties would gain from the use of Father J{esburgh as chief investigator for the Watergate case. First of all, the United States would regain its honor in government both at home and abroad. Secondly, Notre 
:mme wowa gam from tlie en­dowment. Lastly, Father Hesburgh would again promote the 
principles  of  justice  and  social  
equality.  
Jim Clarke  
Ex-Poobah  


The Selfless CSC's 
Edi&or: 
It was good of the Observer to print the story and have the photograph <April 26 issue) of the generous donation by the Notre Dame Student Body to the Holy CrQss Foreign Missions following the Bengal Bouts. 
It would be good also to have a 


Watergate 
Editor: 

During last Sunday's ABC program, "Issuef and Answers", Senator Charles Percy (Rep., m.>, proposed that the Watergate In­vestigation be taken out of the Justice Department's realm of duty. He further suggested that University of Chi~o chancellor Edward Levi orHarvardt president 'Derec .c. Bok be appointed by Mr. Nixon to investigate, the case. Of course, the credibility of these two men is ~tiooable, but 
news story and a photograJib of the 
CoUegfiite NofiS 
Understand all subjects, plays and novels taster! ThOU!>ands of topics avail,ble within .a hOUfS of mailing 
Complete with bibliograptw and footnotes Lowe.! Prices are GUARANTEED SEND Sl.90 tor our latest dt'SCriptive Mail-Order Catal"~ with Postage-Paid Order Forms 
too: COLlEGIATE RESEARCH I N. 13th St. Bldg. Rm 7/M Phila. Pa. 19107 "OLUNE..'Ull) 54l,ll.SI 

Tuesday, May 1, 1973 the observer 
Center studies man's contemporary society 
by Steve Magdzinski Staff Reporter 
<Part II of a two-part series) 
The history of the Center for the Study of Man dates back to 1961 when it was founded by the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, president of the University, and Dr. George Shuster. With the help of matching funds from the Ford Foundation and grants from the Carnegie Corporation, said Dr. FitzGerald, "from 1961-1968, the Center was originated, developed and flourished under Dr. George Shuster." 
The first large project of the 
Center was a three-year study of 9, 
451 Catholic eiP.mentary and 2, 075 
secondary schools. Originally 
funded with a $350,000 grant from 
the Carnegie Corporation and 
$46,000 in additional funds, the 
project eventually produced the 
first thoroughly researched study 
of the American Catholic 
elementary and secondary school 
system. 
They study of Catholic schools 
dealt with the religious and moral 
commitments of the Catholic 
school as an institutional form, the 
economic squeeze on parochial 
schools and the future of such 
schools in the United States. 
In 1966 the results of this study were published by the Notre Dame Press in Catholic Schools in Action. In turn the massive data collected . in this research provided the empiricai basis for 16 additional studies, among them written ar­ticles on Catholic schools in Denver, St. Louis, Florida, Michigan and other areas. Of special interest in these studies were the included attitudinal demographic studies as well as new instruments for determining the changing religious attitudes of Catholic students. Out of these studies centered in education, said FitzGerald, was developed within the Center the Notre Dame Office 
of Educational Research. 
In November, 1971, the OER completed its report on the Financial Condition of Non-Public Schools for President Nixon's Commission on School Finance a study funded by the Office of Education of the Department of Health, Education and 1Welfare. Since then, in the absence of ex­ssion on School fina­nce, a study funded by the Office of Education of the Department of Health, Education and Welfare. Since then, in the absence of ex­ternal funding. the OER is tem­porarily inoperative in the field of research. 
Prior to Dr .,Fitz.Gerald, who was named acting director on Oct. 6, 1971, the directorship of the Center for the Study of Man was held by Fr. Ernest Bartell gave uphis post to become president of Stonehill College Northeastern, Mass. 
As an autonomous in­terdisciplinary research center, the Center for the Study of Man has the academic status of an institute "Threatening in the long run are the possible effects of massive industrialization and of the eventual exhaustion of our power resources. A highly stimulated industrial "Sector may be beneficial to a society's short term economic vitality, while threatening its very basis in future'generations." 
Approval and funding for the study are expected in the next several weeks, said Sayre. 
The research at the Center for the Study of Man in Contemporary Society varies from religion to technology, from soul-illness to computer training in the SSTRL. But each of the projects is aimed at the .improvement of a world which undoubtedly needs improvement. The Center studies man in con­temporary society, "a society confronted with novel and in­creasiiH~ly complicated social problems," and, in Dr. Fit­
Gerald's view, "challenging the combined resources of our cultural heritage and the rapidly developing socio-behavioral disciplines." 
and, accordingly, is directly responsible to the Vice-President for Advanced Studies, Dr. Robert Gordon. Staff and facilities on 5th and 11 floors of the Memorial Library are funded in part by the University. 
Most of the research done at the Center, however, must be funded by outside sources, public or private. Lab projects are studied and approved by a laisson com­mittee made up of six members of the College of Arts and Letters. 
Including principle and associate researchers and staffs, the director and his administrative secretary, there are 57 persons employed in the Center for the inner~ity, with minorities and the poor need support and en­couragement to develop new programs and to do a more ef­fictive job. The task of CCUM in this regard is to develop training programs with, by, or for the trainees to give them new insights, training skills and to acquaint them with the best available resources being used in other parts of the country. 

The CCUM also conducts a year­long Religious Leaders Program in which administrators, pastors, teachers, and social workers study, reflect and pray to continue their ministry in more acceptable ways, said Egan. · 
Center 'has a large religious component' 
Studyof Man. The SSTRL employs 25 persons, including faculty, technicians and graduate students. 
Research at the Center 
Among the work that ahs been done at the Center and the SSTRL in the past have been studies on juvenile delinquency, drug ad­diction, poverty, inner~ity social problemsand Latin American educational studies. 
One project still in progress under the funding of the Ford Foundation is Prof. Julian Samora's five-year program in advanced study for Mexican­American graduate students. The students, five or six of whom are working on doctoral degrees, are doing research work in special areas, after which they will be able to return to their communities to contribute the knowledge they have gained there. 
Another large program, under the funding of the Lewis and Lilly Foundations and smaller grants, is a pastoral theology program under the joint direction of Dr. Tjaard Hoommes, l''r. Donald McNeill 

Research ranges from technology to religion 
and Msgr. John J. Egan. This program is both academically and action oriented. 
The Pastoral Theology Group has developed a program of field training in which graduate students in pastoral theology go into the inner-city or other areas in which religious problems with a distinctly local flavor not described or dealt with in traditional literature have developed. 
Msgr. Egan has additionally been the director of the Catholic Commission on Urban Ministry <CCUM> since 1966. The CCUM is an organized network of 1300 lay people,priests and nuns in 42 states and Canada, which has several different functions. ItS work in the field s of social action and pastoral ministry consists of researching its won activities, relating them to other similar activities and thus, gaining a newt of support for its won participants. 
Often enough, said Msgr. Egan, the work of CCUM is not too popular. Yet those who work in the 

THE NOTRE DAME-8AINT MARY'S THEATRE 
YOU'RE A GOOD MAN CHARLIE BROWN 
Clark-Gesner's musical entertainment based on the comic strip Peanuts by Charles M. Schultz 
April 26,27,28,29 at 8:30 pm May 3,4,5,6 at 8:30pm April 28 and May 5 at 2:30 pm Students-Faculty-staff $2.00 Reservations: 284-4176 

A national newsletter, Link is published by the CCUM, which, as its heading states, "connects ideas and services for people in pastoral and community ministry." LINK, edited by Egaa, has 2, 500 sub­scirbers across the country. 
Under the direction of Dr. Thomas Broden, CCUM'conducts a work training program for seminarians and nuns, the purpose of which is to develop programs to combat white racism in both the Church and 1society. 
"What is interesting about the Center for the Study of Man," said Dr. FitzGerald, "is that, though there are other institutions larger than this one, they tend to be narrower in scope. This is the only one that I am acquainted with that has a large religious component. The existing techniques of the social disciplines are thus made available to religous groups to discern and assess the contribution of the religous culture in dealing with contemporary social problems: an interesting development academically ,in that without discplacing the traditional theological or religoius view, it makes available to our traditional understanding of religous life the results of these techniques applied to contemporary religious ex­perience." 
A~cial InteUigence 
Aside from the strictly theological areas of study, but still in the area of social and ethical values, is Dr. Kennthe Sayre's-
Institute for Ar­tificial Intelligence With initial funds from the National Science Foundation, a study developing computer programs based on analysis of cursive writing is now awaiting NSF reaction to the initial work that has already been finished. 
Sayre's research team is also presently awaiting final approval from the NSF on its proposed "Decision-Making in the Power Industry" project. It is, as the proposal submitted to the NSF says, "a systematic study of the environmental, ethical and commerical values involved in the application of contemporary technology." 
The proposal states, 
liVE· ANd STudy iN ROME 
LOYOLA UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO 
ROME CENTER OF LIBERAL ARTS 
• Classes taught in English 

• All academic credits transfer 
• 60 courses offered each semester: 
ANTHROPOLOGY • CLASSICAL STUDIES • ENGLISH 
& ITALIAN LIT. • FINE ARTS • HISTORY • ITALIAN 
• 
PHILOSOPHY • POLITICAL SCIENCE • PSYCHOL­OGY • THEATRE • THEOLOGY 

• 
400 schools represented over 10 years 

• 
Campus villa houses some 275 studen·ts 


MANY STATE SCHOLARSHIPS TRANSFER APPLICATIONS ACCEPTED NOW FOR 1973-74
-------------....----­
FOR INFORMATION MAIL TO: LOYOLA UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO ROME CENTER OFFICE, 6525 N. SHERIDAN RD., CHICAGO, ILL. 60626 
Name School 
Address 
City State Zip 
Class Cards for 



NEWSWRITING (AMST 446) 
will be distributed on 
Tuesday May 1 
1:00 • 3:45 in the Observer offices 


ATTENTION ALL SOPHOMORES 
Sophmores may start placing ring orders April 24, 1973 
Hours: 9:00 am to 4:30 pm Mon.-Fri. 
in office on second floor, of HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
..-...~ . 
Tuesday, May 1, 1973

14 
the observer 

Irish crew wins 
Notre Dame's crew team swept Grand Valley State College on April 14 at Grand Valley, and dominated a tri-meet with Fordam and Williams College by winning 
two out of three races on April 21. 
The team also placed fourth, third and fifth in the Heavyweight, Lightweight and Freshman divisions at the Mid-West Sprints in Madison, Wisconsin. 
In their first face of the season, the varsity heavyweight eight turned in the fastest time of the day with a 5:38 current aided. Grand Valley clocked a close 5:44. The varsity Lightweights won their race by 15 seconds over Grand Valley with a time of 5:49. The Freshman edged by with a half a boat deck showing a time of 6:00 for the 2000 meter course. 
Fordam, the Lightweights won the first race of a best-of-five series for the Eward Cup. Against heavy winds the Lights sprinted past Fordam at the 1500 meter mark, but no times were recorded for an official inadvertantly halted his stopwatch during the middle of 
the race. , 
The Lightweights were stroked by captain Kevin McEvily from St. Ed's Hall. George Willinet, Frank Laughery, Paul McEvily, Steve Fenstenmacher, Art Geis and Frank Matthew rouhded out the boat. The tights were coxed by Mike Houle. 
On Saturday, April 28, vying for the Eckels cups at the Mid-West Sprints, the Heavyweights crossed the line at 6:09 good enough for fourth place in a field of seven. Wisconsin won by three lengths with a time of 5:24. Heavyweights were stroked by Rick Dorosh. The rest of the eight was composed of Fred Hydrick, John Walsh, Joe Perry, Chris Kotch, Dan Hesse, Greg Erickson, and Chris Zilinski. 

A weak start, and bad placement kept the crew from walking past Purdue and Kansas State, who pulled to a length's lead and sat on it. Coxwain, Diane Johnson guided her boat to fourth place ahead of Nebraska and St. Thomas. 
The Freshman, after ex­periencing a very poor start, managed to retrieve a fifth place, although losing to Lincoln Park Boat Club by one tenth of a second-6:23.2-over the 1900 meter course. 
At Fordam the Freshmen were deprived of victory when six man, John Moushigian, ~ncountered equipment failure in the first five hundre<metersof the race. Stroked by Kevin McBride and Coxed by Jose Santellano the Freshman finished only 11 seconds off the 6: 21 pace set by Fordham in the heavy current. 
Also in the Freshman boat are Bill Brady Burkes, Tom Melvin, Joe Piotroeski, Mark Thickpenny, Doug Quackenbush, and Stan Gerrity. 
New officers will assume thetr 
duties next week. Frankie 
Loughery will replace John Goal 
as president, PaulMcEvilytmd Jim 
Roe will become treasurer and 
secretary respectively. 
This Saturday the Crew will journey to Mariatta, Ohio for the Mid American Colleaiate Rowing Association championship on the Ohio River. 
TICKETS AVAILABLE AT... AUDITORIUM BOX OFFICE 12­5 PM DAILY-•• PANDORA~ BOOK 5T0Rf 
THE CRYPT RECORDS 

. 



Buses 
Circle • O'Hare May 15th & 16th 

Seats Going Fast 
Sign up in travel bureau Badin Hall 
ALL SALES FINAL Ill 




Notre Dame's 

8 
5 
.1) Mike Creaney, football; 2) Bob Roemer, baseball; 3) Bill Green, hockey; 4) Greg Marx, football; 5) John Noble, hockey; 6) Rooney Frailey, cheerleading. 
··~ 
i 
' 


9 
/' 2 
... 

6 
.7) Paul Regan, hockey; 8) John Dampeer, football; 9) Tom McMannon, track; 10) Gene Krathaus, Swimming; 11) Andy Huff, football. 

10 
. 3 












... 


Class of '73 
4 11 

16 the observer Tuesday, May 1, 1973 
Off-Campus wins lnterhall hockey title, 2-0 
Despite the delay, both teamsby Greg Corgan had a tally in each half and Thorpe played fast-moving, hard-hitting
made some spectacular saves as 

A two goal performance by hockey in a game marked by
Off-campus bounced back from an

Frank Wittliff, coupled with eleven penalties-including three
opening game loss to take the title. 

superb goaltending on the part of major game misconducts on
Dillon had won the first contest in

sophomore Mike Thorpe, enabled Dillon.
double overtime 2-1, while OC had

Off-campus to defeat Dillon last Off-campus took advantage of
taken the second game, 1-o. The

night and win the Interhall hockey the third Dillon penalty late in the championship series, two games to final game had been postponed first half. With 'red'captain Mark one. nearly three weeks because of a Storer in the box, OC used their 
Wittliff, brother of former Notre compressor breakdown at the ACC power play opportunity to feed the Dame hockey star Phil Wittliff, ice arena. puck to Wittliff who broke free in 
Netters suffer rough vveekend 
the crease. 
"I hit it twice and both times Jay <Dillon goalie Jay O'Brien) stopped it," said the senior from Port H1,1ron, Mich. "But the second time it bounced in between my feet and I just looked down and slapped it in." 
The rest of the half was marked by a lot of contact as both teams became extremely physical, a characteristic which has marked the playoff series from the start. Thorpe made a key save in the closing minutes, coming out of the net to stop a Dillon breakaway. 
After Thorpe made another excellent save on a Chuck Nadeau slap shot, Wittliff went to work again. With a little over three minutes gone Wittliff took a pass from Eric Horne in front of the net and dumped the puck in on the right side. This broke Dillon's back and from there on the game became a free-for-all. 
Frustrated at having fallen behind by two goals the "Big Red" lost their poise and gathered four penalties, including the three misconducts, in an eight minute period. This assured OC of the 
by John Fineran 

It was not a good weekend for the Notre Dame tennis squad, even though things looked great coming into the matches at home with Michigan State and Iowa. Afterall, the Irish had rallied from four opening losses and five in their first seven matches to post an 11-7 mark before the weekend action. 
On Saturday, the netters ran into an inspired Spartan group at the
\' 
Courtney Tennis Center which was 
~ 
~. intent upon impriving on last season's 7-2loss to the Irish. With
\. 
only Mark Reilly and Brandon Walsh scoring victories in singlescompetition, the Spartans took a 4­2 edge into the doubles, thanks to a pair of three-set victories. 
Notre Dame tried valiantly in the tandem action, needing a sweep for the victory, but only the combinations of Chris Kane-Rob Schefter and Mark and Paul Reilly could muster victories. So, the Spartans gained their revenge, 5-4. 
Sunday morning, it was the same story, Iowa came to Notre Dame with the possiblity of setting a new team record for consecutive wins during the season, but the Hawkeyes needed a three set 'Vic­tory over the Irish tandem of Walsh and John Carrico to set the mark and record a 5-4 win. 
Notre Dame again found itself at a 4-2 disadvantage after the singles round with only Walsh and ScheCter recording wins, but could not quite get that third victory in the doubles. 
Hopefully, the "double \trouble" the Irish have been experiencing lately will not be a factor this af­ternoon ~at Eastern Michigan. The iturons lgot a late start this season due to tri-semester, and con­sequently, are not into the stiff competition they have been ex­periencing. The Irish recorded an 8-1 conquest last season. 
On Friday and Saturday, the Irish, as defending chamipions, will attempt to retain the Juskie Invitational title at DeKalb, lllinois. Northern lllinois plays host to six other teams including the Irish. Indiana State, a 6-3 Irish 
ND sailors win 
The Notre Dame sailing team edged out Wisconsin in heavy seas and strong winds on Lake Michigan to post their second consecutive regatta victory. Oshkosh finished third in the eight­school fleet. George Gaw and Bruce Marek, both I of Chicago, skippered for the Irish. 

Blue-Gold game
~ 
IJi 
The annual Blue-Gold in­
I' 
trasquad football game winding up I Spring Practice will be held in 1'1 Notre Dame Stadium on May 5 at 
1:30 p.m.I Students will be admitted uponI presentation of ID cards at gateI' fifteen only. 
General Admission tickets for 
f ~ the public are available at the 
r Ticket Sales Window, Athletic and 
I Convocation Center, priced at $2.00 
I for adults, 50 cents for children 12 
I and under. Tickets will also be available at the Stadium the day of the game. Dates, wives, St. Mary's students, parents, etc., must have tickets. No seats will be reserved. 
The game is sponsored annually by the Notre Dame Alumni Club of St. Joseph Valley and supports the Club's Scholarship Fund which currently sustains twelve students of this area at the University. 
victim this season, and Miami of scheduled. the Bloomington Ohio should again rate along with weatherman threw a damper upon Notre Dame and the host Huskies their scheduled activity. as the favorites this year. 
I.U. is currently 10-7 and the The season will conclude this Hoosier first-year coach, Scott 
Sunday with a match at the Greer, has been getting excellent

Courtney Tennis Center against 

work out of three returning let­Indiana (10:00 A.M.). The termen,..-senior Tom Dunker and
Hoosiers and Irish will try for the second time this season to meet. Sophomores Doug Sullivan and Joe The first time the teams were Kendall. Notre Dame took the 
Hoosiers last season 6-3. 
Vic Dorr 
campus title and while providingDillon came out strong in the for a little excitement in the

second half but it just wasn't their night. closing minutes was a disgraceful 
display of unsportsmanlike con­"The fact that we scored the first 

duct.

goal gave us the momentum," noted OC captain Mike Ruffen, Nevertheless, referees Mark "Dillon came out tough in the Johnson and Paul Simmons kept second half but we already had the things moving and Off-campus' advantage with that first period swarming defense, along with a score. You've got to give them a few more picture saves by Thorpe, lost of credit, they really came out preser~ed OC's second campus to play." crown mas many years. 
:======================================================================================================::===============================================================================================================================:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=====================:=:=:=====:=:=====:=:=:=:================: 


The Irish Eye 
=============================================:===========:===================:===========================================================================:=:=:===============:======:========================:=====:=:=:============:==========The 

year in retrospect· 

There's a lot to be said about Notre Dame's athletic fortunes during the 1972-73 school year. 
It should be said that the year was an exciting one; one which saw ND's football, basketball, and hockey teams all complete successful regular seasons and then go on to post-season competition. It could also be said 
that the year was a disappointing one; one which saw the Irish shellacked in the Orange Bowl, shaded in the NIT championship game, and nipped in the WCHA finals. 
And the best explanation for whatever is said about the '72-'73 campaign lies in the rosters of the Irish teams fielded during the year. For almost without exception, the squads competing for ND in the "major sports" were youthful, underclass teams which carried potential, expectations, and not a great deal of certainty into their respective 
seasons. 

Coach Lefty Smith's hockey team lost its senior goaltender to graduation, ,and entered its second WCHA campaign with only a handful of fourth-year performers. Coach Digger Pelhelps' basketball team returned but one starter and but one senior 'regular from '71's 6-20 squad, and Ara Parseghian's gridders entered their 1Q-game season loaded with youth-particularly at the skilled positions. 
Asking a young, potentially talented team to compete with the best college opposition in the nation-regardless of the sport-is asking for an up-and-down, possibly exciting and possibly disappointing year. That's exactly what the Irish got in 1972-73, and nowhere were the exttemes inore apparent than with Ara Parseghian's ninth Notre Dame football team. 
The Irish entered their season opener at Northwestern's Dyche Stadium with a squad dotted with question marks. One of the question marks was at quarterback, one was in the offensive backfield, and one was on the defensive line. Northwestern, 7-o losers to Michigan the week before, loomed as an interesting, if not demanding opponent for the ND team. But as a sellout crowd of 55,000 looked on, the Irish crushed the Wildcats 37-o, and had given names to their question marks by the end of the first half. The quarterback was Tom Clements, the running back was Eric Penick, and the defensive lineman was Steve Niehaus, and they, along with veterans Darryll Dewan, Greg Marx, and Andy Huff, put on a show that thoroughly delighted Notre Dame partisans. 
Among those the Irish delighted was Jim Donaldson, the recently-retired Observer sports editor, who observed, midway through the first half, that "this is what Notre Dame football should really be like: we score, you get creamed. We score, you get creamed .... " 
But the Irish had no time to relax after they'd alternately scored on and creamed the 'Cats. They next met Purdue, a team loaded with All-American and pro prospects, and had to confront a huge, talented Boilermakerdefenset-a defense led by tackle Dave Butz. "We're going to run right at him <Butz)," said ND tight end Mike Creaney. "Is he slow? No, 'he's an All-American." But run and pass the Irish did, all the way to a 35-14 triumph that starred Clements, Creaney, and, again, the ND defense. 
And during the next two weeks, the Irish maintained their winning ways. They tripped Michigan State, 16-o, and thumped Pittsburgh, 42-16, before taking their 4~ record i!lto a game with the Missouri Tigers. . 
Hampered by the f1red-up T1gers and by the loss of freshm.an Steve.Nte­haus, ND fell behind 30.14 in the second half before mountmg a furJO.us comeback. The Irish sliced the count to 30.26 before Clements was m-different, but the results were just as painful. Nebraska, displaying every bit of its awesome strength, crushed Notre Dame ~. and left the Irish with little consolation, save a fourth period,Clements-to-Demmerle 
TD pass. There was frustration and disappointment in the Irish locker room after the runaway, but coach Parseghian summed it up best when he replied 
tersely to a questioner: "I don't see how you can ask that (if the defeat would cause the Irish to return to their no-bowl policy). I would suggest to you that it would be just the opposite. That we would want to come back to prove we're a better football team than we showed today." 
And while the Irish gridders were losing to USC and Nebraska, the ND basketball team was also suffering through some December-January woes. Coach Digger Phelps' squad, whose starters included four sophomores and a junior, lost six of its first seven games, including close decisions to Michigan, Indiana ,and Kentucky. In that same mold was Notre Dame's second loss of the season, in the home opener against Ohio State. The Irish, after leading most of the way, were tied at the end of regulation, and were defeated in overtime, 81-75. "It was just like this up at Michigan," lamented sophomore forward Pete Crotty. "We had that game, too, and let it get away at the end." 
But things soon improved for Phelps' crew. A stunning, 7Hi9 win over Marquette--at Milwaukee-kept the Irish on the first of several medium­length winning streaks, and, by the time they had completed the last such skein~ by upsetting South Carolina at the ACC, 73-69, Notre Dame was 15­11 and had accepted a bid to appear in New York's National Invitational Tournament. 
The Irish went into the tourney as heavy underdogs, and they remained that way until the final weekend's action. ND played its first-round game against Southern Cal, on St. Patrick's Day, and the Irish used a bit of luck to win that game, 69~. The next week brought upsets of Louisville, 79-71, and tourney favorite North Carolina, 78-71, and the Irish, on Sunday, found themselves in the title game against Virginia Tech's Gobblers. 
The Hokies earned the NIT crown 92-91 when Bobby Stevens pitched in a 15-footer with one second left in the first overtime, but Notre Dame's John Shumate was selected as the event's Most Valuable Player, and the Irish, with all five starters returning next season, had found a solid base from which to guild in '73-'74. 
"We'll be back," Digger had promised earlier in the season, "'We're still young-we'll be back." Mter the tournament, the words were the same, but with a different twist. "Next year's a new year, and we'll be back. It's like I told you last week-'we've only just begun."' , 
Nor were the ND cagers the only Irish team to suffer a one-point loss in a championship series. Coach Lefty Smith's icers, after battling to second place in the WCHA standings during the regular season, bombed North Dakota in the first round of the league playoffs, and then met always-strong Wisconsin in the title round. 
. The two teams had split their earlier four meetings, and the first match of their two-game, total goals playoff ended in a 4-4 tie. And the second game was tied at three with just minutes left in the final periodwhen ND's John Noble was whistled off for cross-checking, giving the Badgers the opportunity they needed to score, and win thegame and the championship, 4-3. 
"As the <final) game wore on," said the South Bend Tribune's Steve Klein, "you got the feeling that they could have played on and on without settling anything. It was apparent in theh third period ·that something 
tercepted while attempting a final-drive sideline pass to Darryll Dewan I other than the two teams was going to decide the the game." 
The play was a close one, but Mike Fink's theft secured Mizzou's upset. "It's too bad/' said a subdued Frank Pomarico afterwards. "If Darryll had caught that pass he might still be ~unning." 
But the Irish bounced back after the1r loss, and shut out TCU and much-heralded tail back Mike Luttrell, whose pre-game comments about the ND defense were not taken lightly by co-captain Gr~g Marx. Luttrell. was stymied all afternoon, and the ND offense, meanwhtl~, scored three times to win, 21-o. "Ask Luttrell," suggested Marx, "ask him how many yards he got. A~k him if this was a Notre Dame de~ense." . 
Followmg TCU, ND dumped Navy and Air Force, and head~d mto the season's home finale with an Orange Bowl bid at stake. The Irtsh top~ the Hurricanes, 20-17, but not .before a snowball had cau,sed Bnan Doherty to fumble an extra pom.t at~empt, and not before Canes had come close on a 44-yard try at a tymg fteld goal. 
The victory sent the Irish into the Orange Bowl against t:'!ebraska, and ~eftNDwithan8·1.recordwithonegamelefttoplay. Thatfmalgame.was m Los Angeles, wtth the undef~ted, number one-ranked USC TroJa~, and for three quarters, the lnsh gave a number-one sc~re to their powerf~l foes. A Cleme!lts-t~-Creaney .touc~do~ made It ~-23 • SC, before httle Anthony Davis rumed the Insh W_tth his second kick-return 
touch~own of the day. That tally was on~ of SIX scored by the USC soph, the ND distance team has served to brighten the spring season. and hts.ove~all ~rformance se~t N~ reehn.g to a 45-23 defeat. With the close of one season, though, the next always comes into focus. And m Mtaml, on New Years. mght, thmgs were no better. The op-And that's one advantage of a young, exciting, or or even disappointingponent-Nebraska--and the chtef tormentor-Johnny Rodgers-were team. For them, "next year" always looks good. 
J 

As bitter as the loss was it did not lessen the achievements of Smith's sextet. The Irish featured the most potent line in college hockey-Ian Williams, John Noble, Eddie Bumbacco-and blitzed the WCHA during the last half of the season. Notre Dame won 11 of their final 13 games, and included in that win column four wins over the nation's top-ranked hockey team: two against Michigan State over the weekend of January 26th, and a pair against Wisconsin over the weekend of February 23rd. 
Notre Dame's oUtH teams-the competitors in the so-called "minor sports" --also experie'!ced up-and-down seasons. Defensive lapses and stranded baserunners have combined to give the ND baseball squad a 9­19slate, and coach Jake Kline's squad, even if it finishes with a rush, can only end up one game below .500. Coach Dennis Stark's swimmers won four of their last five meets to post a 6-3 record, but the Irish wrestlers, hurt by injuries and a thin roster lost three of their last five and finished 
6-8. ' The ND fencers, despite tough losses to Detroit and .Wayne State, rallied to finish 6-2, and the Iacross and rugby clubs posted fall marks of B­3 and 11-2 respectively. Coach Don Faley's track squad had its problems this year, going 0-3 in indoor competition, and only consistently strong performances by hurdler Tom McMannon, weightman Bill George, and 







