On The lnside 
SLC meeting ... page 2 Gilligan speaks ... page 11 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Tuesday, March 27, 1973 
Vol. VII, No. 101 

Most Valuab-le Player John Shumate. a big man on campus in more ways than one. stands above an en­thusiastic crowd that was on hand to welcome the Irish home from the NIT. 

Gov. Gilligan calls for involvement in gov't 
by Terry Keeney Staff Reporter 

Governor John J. Gilligan of. Ohio last night urged young people to .involve them• selves with thier government:· ··Speaking before a student audience at Carroll Ball,· . · Gilligan pointed out the apathy he perceives·.: among college students toward politics. · · 
··1 have been involved in politics for twenty: years." said Gilligan, "and I've got news for .. you--the system works. Individual action caQ .· make a difference." · · · 
Gilligan, a Notre Dame alurimus ·<Class of '43), cited two ,reasons . ·.young people should be active politically: "You are alive: and .love life more than death: ·You have power over good and evil as· neyer before: . !low much better could our·lives be spent than in Jrying to achieve our dreams?" . . 
Gilligan. in addressing ·himself to the . problems of the states, blasted the notion of revenue sharing. He warned .that under 

Ohio Govc>rn.or John Gilligan--"the system 
\\'orl~s."

revenue sharing the President could "Turn 
off the spigot and undercut anything done on also felt that the rights of p(•t·spective fathers the state level." Instead, Governor Gilligan must be legally defined. proposed a system of tax .credits to allow In calling for youth's participation in states to collect more tax dollars while cut­~overnment. the Governor decried the values ting ack on federal revenue. · According to and prionties of the American system. "We Gilligan. the state should decide where any are more concerned with more electric federal funds should be allocated within the toothrushes than with granting people a state. citing waste and mismanagement of means to sustain life." federal grants for services such as law en­(;illigan cited the defense budget as a 
forcement. flagrant example of distorted priorities in 
When asked why the McGovern-Shriver ~overnment. ticket fared so poorly last November, Gilligan "If we tried to fill the Grand Canyon with blamed McGovern. rather than. the twenty dollar gold pieces," Gilligan com­Democratic Party as· a whole. "The nwnted. "we could not waste more money 
Anwrican people just did not know what than to pour it into the defense system" 1\leGovern was tr~·.ing to say." On the issue of socialized medicine the 
However. Gilligan believed that the ~overnmental control of the health industry, Ih>mocrats had not lost their traditional New (;illigan blamed the excessive cost, and l>t>al majority. "We must convince the itwfficiency of the system on the profit Anwrican people that we are still their in­motivation of many physicians. He .endorsed strument." mon• governmental. influence over health 
(;illigan also commented on the political earP facilities. · influence of a fellow Decmocrztic governor-­In tlw arPa of education Governor Gilligan (;porge Wallace of Alabama. "Governor noted that his attempts to provide aid to non­Wallace is a very sensitive political figure. public schools have been frustrated by the liP ereated the two big issues in the domestic courts. !It• explained the $62 million has <~rena during the Presidential election-­a lreadv lwen allocated for this aid. bussing and tax reform." In addition. Gilligan described his proposal 
(;o\'ernor Gilligan, when asked to explain to finanee higher education in Ohio. Under his position on the abortion issue, npposed a this proposal graduate students in medicine. l'onstitutional amendment to rl'gulatl' law and otlwr lucrative fields would be ex­abortions. HP did Pxpress concern over the " pec!Pd to reimburse the state whatever funds ~aping holes " Left in abortion laws by the pro\'ided by the state for theor graduatP n•e(•nt Suprenw Court decision to allow work. This payment should be made over a abort ions during the first two trimesters. He lon~ !J('l'iod of tim('. 
HPC questions outline of new student forum 
by David Rust Senior Reporter 

Notre Dame's hall presidents were split last night in their reactions to the proposed ''Student Association outline" worked up by an inter­governmental committee and published in yesterday's Observer, and most voiced their belief that their questions could be resolved at the Hall Presidents Council meeting this evening. 
Several confessed their general unfamiliarity with the document which would replace the present legislative Board of Commissioners with an essentially non-legislative Forum, membership of which would be predominantly of hall presidents. 
The new "outline" would also retain election of an association president and vice-president by the whole student body. 
Badin hall president Kim Magnotta spoke for a slight majority of the fourteen presidents contacted when she said she backed the outline, though she had her reservations. 
"The hall presidentsare the most representative form of 'govern­ment.' because most emphasis in student life is on the halls/' she said. "A couple elements I worry about, like the number of members the outline wants on the Forum. I think there are too many. There's also the existence ofsomeiqter-hall rivalry, but I think that can resolve. itself all right.'.' · 
But Bagnotta als.o found the document "terrifically vague,"·. · · agreeing with detractors ofthe outline that "a big loophole exists" in relation to who actua:Ily is· to control the association purse strings, . pointing to the passages giving the Forum legislative power over the budget but charging the pr~sident to "be responsible for the financial . · operations o the Studenf Association." . "There also seems to oe quite a bit of responsibility left with the student association president and vice-president," said Bagnotta. "It seems to be headed back toward what he had this year." 
Bagnotta expressed confidence that "This will all be rehashed (this) evening" at the HPC meeting. 
Other hall presidents were more unreservedly in favor of .~accepting the outline, though moststill mentioned sections that disturbed them. 'Til ask for its adoption," said Phil Byrne, Alumni Hall's chief executive. "My only complaints are with this petition thing. I'm 
. totally against the whole idea of only ten signatures for off-campus representatives. Aiidldori't.think there should be allowed repeats on petitions 1for .sfudent association presidency candidacy>." 
Byrne said he'd press·for modification in these areas this evening, otherwise standing in agreement with the outline. "lm in favor of it completely," said Sorin Hall president Ed Schute. ."Our last student governme.nt was a waste and I didn't know who my 
· . representative was.". · . Schute called the proposed form "a good deal for the constituents.."· Hr didn't believe the execi.Jt~ve branch retained too much power in 
the new•stlident.a:ssociation·yersion, believing that even though the Forum was non-legislat(ve, jts dty to "advise" and other special relationships would .''act asthe check." 
"It's only a provisional thing anyway," he concluded. Pat McLaughlin,· rec·ently re-elected president at Pangborn, was unhappy wiih the document.. 
.. 1The proposal) would make student government a !most the same as it is now;" said McLaughlin. "There is still too much power in the hands of the executives._''. 
Ill' wanted the selection ofeornmissioners, judicial board members and student representatives to university committees to be "at least 1subjeet to the) consent" of the Forum, while asking a reason for the l'Xistencc of any executive Cabinet. 
1\kLaughlin also joined several others, including re-elected Grace \IaII pn•sidcnt Kevin Griffin·. ih embracing several of the criticisms of 1tw tww Student Association putforth by former HPC Chairman Butch \\·ard in his t>ditorial in yesterday's Observer. 
(;riffin pointed out that "flaws still exist, leftovers from our present svstt>m whieh the outline Jaisl fo alleviate. 
· .. /\ student association president should be elected by the Forum." l'laborat(•d Griffin. "if he is not to be a hindrance to the workings of the Forum. as this year's president was." 
Ill' also disagreed with having the student members of the Academic 
<'ouneil on thP Forum. · "Tlwy don't represent anybody." said Griffin. Stud(•nt on the 1\cademic Council Ed Ellis called that particular 
outline proposal "stupid~" but. like d the idea of giving the hall pn•sidents tlw m01jority of rein in the association. StudPnt ;.~on•rnmt'nl officials who worked to produce the com­prom isP outlitw were stunned by Ward's editorial against it. 
"It sepml'd to be a step·backward for The Obsen•er." said former student ~OH'I'lll'mnt Trt>asurer Mike Marget. whose resignation from his finant'P post was i.offective yesterday. 
\l<lrgt•t attaeked nunwrous·of Ward's argumt>nts. claiming that the outlitw's "prol'Pdurp_for selt>cting the number of vandidatl's who will run in tlw runoff was writ!Pn simply to insure that a majority of the ~tudt•nt body would he reprt>sented in the runoff." 
Ill' pointl'd to this year·s.l'IPction. in which the two top tiekets going in to tlw runoff had together ganwred less than 50 percent of the \'Ole in !Ill' first l'll'd ion. 
"I ~l'l' tlw thrust of the arguments against an elected student body prl'si(lnt as an attt>mpt to d(;n~· 'thP student body a choicP in their n·pn'sl'ntat ive." said .1\largd .. ·;And saying that the outline ·relies too: · IH'a\·ily upon tlw l'leetion of a si•rious and dt>dicated studt>nt to the post. · · of prl'sidPnl points up tlw basicyroblem of a democracy. 

~ • 0 •• ••• 
Tuesday, March 27, 1973

the observer 
warld briefs 
(C) /97.1 New York Times 

Miami -The White House announced that agreement had been reached with the four-party joint military commission in Saigon to complete by Thursday the release of the last of the United S~a.tes Prisoners of war in Indochina and the withdrawal of the remammg American combat forces from South Vietnam. The agreement provides for the release in four states, beginning today (Tuesday) of 1-tR American prisoners, including nine held in Laos, and the with­drawal. also starting today, of about 6,000 American troops from South Vietnam. 
N!!w York-Sir Noel Coward, whose light, sharp wit had enlivened llw London and New York Theater for half a century as actor, playwright. songwriter, composer and director, died of a heart attack at his home in Jamaica, B.W.I. He was 73. He was knighted by Queen Elizabeth in 1970. 
Washington -The Senate's Special Committee on the Watergate conspiracy met privately to hear a synopsis of two lengthy interviews tis staff held last week with James W. McCord Jr. The committee n•fused to confirm officially that McCord, convicted of spying on the Ill•mocrats last year, had implicated two high administration officials in the espionage plot. 
Washington -The Supreme Court declined Monday to review the contempt citation of Harvard Professor Samuel L. Popkin, who had refused to answer the qehstions of a grand jury investigating the publication of the Pentagon Papers. Popkin said he believed as a scholar he had the right to keep confidential the sources of his in­formation. The decision left standing a lpwer court ruling under which Popkin. an Assistant Professor of Political Science, served a week in jail. 
an campus taday 
4:30 p.m.--seminar--1he role of selection in gene ,ic polymorphism, dr. rodger milkman, galvin life science center 
7:00 
p.m.--organizational meeting, nd-smc red cross blood program, room 2-d Iafortune 

7:00 
p.m.--lecture, are you properly Insured, edwin s. ehlers, carroll hall, smc 


8:00 
p.m.--lecture, urban problems, mayor joseph alio o of san francisco, cce auditorium 

8:00 
p.m.--lecture, justice is illegal in america, david dellinger, library auditorium 



Black students clarify aims at SLC meeting 
by Janet Longfellow Staff Reporter 
Black students ii!larified their goals pertaining to the proposals made at the February 5 session on "Black Students at Notre Dame," at yesterday's general meeting of the Student Life Council. 
Clark Arrington, Carl Ellison, and Ken Lee voiced their dissatisfaction with the progress made up to the time of the last SLC meeting on their proposals. It was felt that the publicity after the hearing misinterpreted their main objectives and hindered their progress. Further, they felt the black community was left out of the research and discussion process. All three representatives expressed the hope that the hearing was just a beginning to a series of dialogues on the complex problems of racism on the campus, and that the black community-s own sources would become an integral part of the decision making. 
Dr. Phillip Faccenda, vice­present of student affairs, pointed out that the SLC meeting following the hearing was not the end of the work being done to aid the blacks, but only the "second episode." He explained, "The recommendations that could be carried out were worked on immediately," and that the others were in the process of being researched by the SLC committees. 
Meat boycott to be discussed tonight at 7:30 
Off campus , and married 
students who have been hit hard by 
rising food costs, especially meat 
prices. can get information about 
the national meat boycott by at­
tending a meeting at the American 
National Bank. Thursday at 7:30 
p.m. 
The meeting. which will be held 
in the bank at Angela Blvd. and 
Michigan. is being sponsored by a 
number of local citizen com­
mittees. Leafletting( beginning 
April first .. at local supermarkets 
will be discussed. The national 
boycott will last for a week! 
Further information may be 
obtained by calling Dianne Devlin 
at 288-7779 or 233-1398 
Tile Observer is published daily clur inq Ihe college semester except vac,llions by the students of the U11iversity of Notre Dame and St. M.1r·1's College. Subscriptions ,,,, IJe purchased for S8 per ~cmPster (S14 per yeilr) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, lnct>ilnil 46556. Second class :>ostilqe paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
~6556. 

The most important proposals made at the hearing were restated for clarification. In order of 
priority, they are the aJ?pointment of a Black Student Affatrs person. Senior Carl Ellison, felt that an additional reason for this reason for this need had emerged since the hearing session. He stated, "Notre Dame says that it wants to diversify itself, but it doesn't protect blacks from being forced off campus by the lottery as it does for women and athletes." 
The additional basic priorities are: a recommendation for an increment in the money available for endowments to minority students; establishment of a Black house; and the requirement of a minority-experience course. 
The Rules Committee submitted its report on Campus Security Problems. Five recommendations were approved to be sent to the administration: 
--To continue efforts to impress campus members of -their mutual responsibility in caring for one another by locking doors, repor­ting obvious strangers, etc. 
--Respecting the security rules 

and  persons  for  the  purpose  of  
order.  
--That  a  survey of  lighting  of  

campus be ·professionally un­dertaken. 
--That the card access system into the building be used when it can be a significant deterrent to crime, based on the desires of each dormitory. 
--An increase in student help in the security fore~. as. sup­plementary secunty patrol assistants. 
The Campus Life Committee planned and scheduled a meeting for Monday, April 2, concerning relations between the Notre Dame campus and South Bend com­munities. Several speakers are invited and announcements were sent out today. 
The Hall Life Committee ex­pressed its satisfaction with its recommendations for the housing problem. It was stated that the SLC's plans for a lottery system and room selection had produced a fairly workable system. 
COLLEGIATE NOTES 
Understand all subjects, plays and novels faster! 

Thousands of topics available within 48 hours of mailing Complete with bibliography and 
1 'ootnotes lowest Prices are GUARAN­TEED SEN-D $1.90 for our lares! descriptive Mail-Order Catalogue wi1h ·Postage-Paid Order Forms too: 
COLLEGIATE RESEARCH 1 N. 13th St. Bldg. Rm 706 Phita. Pa. 19107 HOT-LINE (215) 563-3758 

Fred Giuffrida, SLC chairman. Dr. Faccenda made an addition lie also asked for the SLC's requested the committees to make to the meeting's agenda, approval in appointing a com­their individual year-end reports in suggesting that the SLC make a mittee of-interested members to order. for him to compile a sum­report on the Studetnt Affairs consider improvements in campus mary of the SLC's activities for the Committee meeting with the Board ecology and its beautificaton. Both 
year. of Trustees. motions were passed. 



SENIORS 
Uncertain of your future ••• 
,.,
• 

• • • check out the 
Marist Brothers 

Lay Volunteer Program. 
Talk with recent N. D. grads now in the Program 
Tuesday· Wednesday ·Thursday '7:30pm Lafortune Ballroom 

Special Opportunities in: 
grammer school teaching & high school teaching 
Tuesday, Much If, 1t73 the observer 

V) 
1­
z 






w 0 ::J 
I­
V) 
>­

1­0::: 
0 
z 


Just as the percentage of minority students in the undergrad population has increased nearly four times, sotoohas the severity of their problems in academic and social areas. 
Minority students have always been a part of Notre Dame (the first student was an American Indian), but their numbers have been so small Ulat they became lost in the crowds of white. SU<lents moving up and down the quads. 
In 1967, minorities comprised 1.24 percent of the undergraduate body and were not very vocal. Their voices began to be heard as their numbers increased to comprise the present 4.06 percent of the un4ergraduate body. 
But their voices have been cries in the wilderness if one judges by .the response of the student body and the administration. If this were not the case, then the February meeting of the Student Life Council, at which several black students presented a list of proposals to improve life at Notre Dame, would not have been necessary. 
Blacks have always been the most vociferous minority on camPus, mostly because they are the largest group. Except for the Mexican-Americans, the rest have been content to quietly occupy themselves with in-group activities and some recruit­ment efforts. 
Some proposals have been met by the administration. The Black Studies Program has expanded to many depart­ments, its director has gained some say and financial control in the hiri-"'6 of professors for Black Studies coiU'IIIIS, minority coun­seling facilities h~ve· trnproved somewhat, there are mwe minority faculty members and the.mir.ority enrollment has increased. Even financial aid has stabilized. 
However. most of these improvements 
have been minimal, bones tossed to the dogs 
the staff: 
Supplement Editor: Don Ruane 
Executive Editors: Daniel Barrett. Art Ferranti 
St. Mary's Editor: Maria Gallagher 
to stop the barking. Although the bark may have been silenced, MECHA and the blacks, in particular, continue to hound the University for more academic im­provements and to pioneer in the area of minority student life. 
The SLC presentation in February is an example of the more subdued approach, opposed to the 100 pickets who marched to the Provost's office last Spring. The meeting was held in accordance with bureaucratic guidelines. It was not a shouting match, but rather a rational presentation of proposals with an un­fortunately abbreviated time to explain them. 
Because the time for explanatory com­ments was abbreviated, and since the SLC recently produced wishy-washy reports that said leiS tMn has already been said, there has been much misunderstanding about the proposals. 
Likewise, there has been a general lack of knowledge, and at times, misun­derstanding, about the other minorities in residence. With this in mind, the Observer appr9ached the various minority groups on campus to ask them to write about their organization and its activities, and to comment on the problems they face at Notre Dame. 
The Observer has also included in­
formation about minority enrollment and 
financial aid policies, the view from the 
office of the Vice President for Student 
Affairs, and a look at the minority coun­
seling office in the basement of LaFortune. 
The St. Mary's College report indicates 
that the situation there has improved 
slightly since last Spring when a minority 
student leader burned an official notice 
establishing a task force to investigate 
minority problems. 
Don Ruane 

Layout: Beth Hall 
Photographer: Jim Hunt 
Reporters: Michael Baum, David Rust 
Contributors: Dr. Aleck H. Che­Mponda. Carl Ellison. Jose Gon­zales. Mike Nickerson. Amaury Velez. Forrest Whiterabbit 

-n 
rn 
)> 
--1 
z 
0 


--1 :::0 rn 
c 
)> 
~ 
rn 

Tueslbly, March 27, 1973
the observer 

IS no excuse for race hatred today

There • 
Ethnicity in the Soul of Academia 
by 
Dr. Aleck H. Che-Mponda Asst. Prof. Government 
Human generations do not seem to be capable of learning from the past in regard to their relations with one another. Wars have been fought among men in the various civilizations and are still being fought today. 
Conditions of prejudice and servitude have existed. been studied and analyzed. Yet they stiU haunt mankind to date. Where <'I lmie major;:itics have had the reigns of power. minorities have often times taken s<•cond-dass positions. This happens among the !!;<•n<>ral public and even in institutional communities of higher leatsing which are th• n•al soul of academia. What is wrong 'Nitli Man'? 
Maybe there is nothing wrong with 'Man but just that the genes of social intercourse n•sisl change and are easily aggravated to incite the animalistic instinct that is inlwrent in human nature. Lyrics of the son!!; in "The South Pacific" include "you got to be taught to hate" other people. Some p~tr!'nts do leach their children to hate or dissociate themselves with those of anothe1 raee. Some communities act likewise. 
Love Thy Neighbor 
Should we assume that most of these people who consciously discriminate against others are such pagans that they nevPr heard the biblical teaching, "Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself'?" Or should we conclude that they are just devilish in that they don't care a damn about the feelings of others or even of their own conscience? There really should ~ pxcuse for such behavior, especia~Ts day and age. 

t<:thnicafly, blacks h~e'}1robably suffered more than othe~> minorities in recent history. For, even where they are in the majority as in South Africa, they have been ruled. humiliated, and discriminated against. Opportunities for equal ad· vancemPnt in all fields have been closed to them. Only within the last fifteen years has there been movement in favor of the African majority on the Mother Continent. This development has also helped to improve the condition of the black minority in America. 
Serious Consideration 

One thing that must be clearly stated here is that we black peple can take a lot of beatings before we cry "Wolf, Wolf!" It is important to get this understanding because when a black minority petitions an ad· ministration in a predominantly white university, then conditions must really be had for them. They may have reached a saturation point where they cannot tolerate the situation any longer. The best thing to do in such a case is not to aggravate the situation by publicizing their weak points that tarnish the black image even further. Hather. intelligent steps should be taken to investigate their cries in a spirit of sin· eerily. The black student proposals should be seriously considered not just with an appeasement haste but with a purposeful approach. Those which can be fulfilled 
~d be fulfilled withou undue delay. Those\w.bich cannot be fulfilled must be explainoo~ a dignified manner. Those minorities TWbQ so peacefully petition through lineal ~rchy instead of taking the dramatic route that bas been a common· campus feature in the pa!it-i.e.w years, have shown a sense of intellectual rn.a.t.urity and are determined to seek workable soluti.Qns. 
Thus.  their  humanity  must  as  well oe  
respected.  
Soul of Academia  

In an institution of higher learning, all members of the community must be con­sidered on equal terms as individuals rather than on the basis of their ethnicity or any other discriminatory characteristics. Begardless of whether the individuals were appointed or accepted in the community under the principle of "tokenism." once they join the campus they become part and parcel of the soul ofacademia. Therefore, it is unfair to talk of them as "minorities" because when you do so you are bringing <'lhnic discrimination on campus, the place where individual character. merit and in­tellectualism should be the sole determining factors. There should thus be no need for the black faculty and staff to organize themselves into a formal organization. 
Knowledge and Education 
To any student. I would like to emphasize that the purpose of coming to a university is to gain knowledge and to be educated. You don't know how lucky you are in America wher.e opportunities for higher learning are so plentiful. In Africa where I come from millions of young people ljust like you thirst and hunger for a chance to go to a secondary school and to college. Let me briefly tell you 
Own Experience 

of my own experience. When I was in the fourth grade I could not go to the fifth grade because there was no vacancy. So repeated the fourth grade. The next year out of 100 of us only 30 made it to the fifth grade. Then only 26 of us made it to the sixth grade from where only five of us went on to a secondary school which catered to tlw whole diocese. We all continued with 25 otlwrs from other parishes to the lOth grade wh<•n• W(' faced the Tl.'rritorial Standard X 
Examination. Fifteeen of us passed that Pxam and only three of us were selected to go on to the Senior High School where we joinl'd 25 others. In the 12th grade we did the Cambridge Overseas School Certificate. 
I.ucky 

Only one failed but only five were selected to go on to the one college which was jointly operated by Kenya, Uganda and Tanzania. I was not one of those seiected, but I was lucky enough to come to America to receive my university education. 
So please. students. if you are in school take full advantage of it and make it! 

Minority ethnic group students are increasing 
by Art Ferranti Executive Editor 
Tlw admission of minority ethnic group st ud(•nts (as defined by the Department of llt•alth. J•:ducation. and Welfare> has been steadily increasing over the past three wars at NotrP Dame. The University had 'minority recruitment well before 1970 but "tlw Colton Bowl marked the first year of any eommitnwnt to the minority ethnic group" staiPd 'Daniel Saracino, one of the five assistant directors of admissions. 
From the .January I, 1970 Cotton Bowl, Not rl.' ))ame received $IIi(~ 000 and alloted $-10.000 a y<•ar for the 1970-71 freshman class 
So. by June. 1974•, the proceeds will have ht•en depleted. Thts plan was continued in 1971 when Notre Dame participated in that vPar's Cotton Howl. However. when it iw(·anw apparent that the University would mit always be playing in a bowl game t which Notrl.' Dame did not do in 1972>. a three million dollar endowment was raised specifically for H.E.W. defined minorities u\nwrican Inidans, Negro, Oriental, and Spanish American l. 
A number of organizations and in­dividuals contributed to the endowment, inducting the Knights of Columbus, which 
!!;ave, $500,000 inreturn for use of the old ND post office. The three million dollars remains untouched with the University drawing $200,000 a year interest for each incoming freshman class. This amount is tlwn divided equally for that class's four vears. In other words, the minority students inust share $50.000 a year. Realizing the· ,·arious costs of the University incurred by tlw student. Saracino figures that this n1mwy can only reach approximately 30 students a year at most. 
The Admissions Process 
The admissions process is a relatively simple matter in structure, but obviously difficult when trying to a~cept o~ rej~cJ a student. If a student IS so fmapeni1ly destitute that he cannot apply without in­curring monetary hardship, tbe admissions fee is waived. 
Therefore. anyone c;an apply to Notre Dame. Saracino listed the three alter­natives to any aplplication: the student is accPpted without a scholarship, the student is rejected. or the student is accepted with eitlwr a scholarship or grant-in-aid. Up to this point all students have competed <'qually. 
Any minority student who is ineligible for a scholarship or grant-in-aid becomes l'ligihle for the endowment aid if his financial situation as reported in the Parents Confidential Statement <PCSJ qualifies him. The SAT is not heavily weighted. said Sarracino. The high schlol 

•w·ord is the most important thing. 
In accordance with HEW standards and law. one's ethnic status is asked on the admissions application. It is held in strict confidencl'. This recent addition to the form l><'gan in 1972. This information is also rl'questl.'d on registration forms. There are two reasons for this: first. for qualification for tlw endowment. and second. so that a complete report can be filed with the Civil Hights Commission. This federal body -decides whether the University is meeting fedPral standards and attempting to further l'lllice minority recruitment. No complaints havl.' bPen made to Notre Dame. 
Statistics 

Charles McCollister, the coordinator for· 
•analytical studies, has maintained reports of minorityenrollment for the Civil Rights Commission since 1967 based upon registration findings. Before that. the unreliable melhod of visually spotting minorities was utilized. It was not untill968 that HI<:W stadnards were adopted. H<'cords for 1969 and 1971 were unavailable. Tlw following percentages reflect a vast summary of the facts. 
In 1967. at the undergraduate level (all elasses l, there were 46 blacks and 31 "ot hers"'out of 6,237 students. Minorities therefore made up 1.24 per cent of the un­dergraduate level. For graduates (ex­eluding law>. there were 't9 blacks and 114 "others" out of 1.106 students of 12 percent. Law students in i967 had 3 blacks and 2 others out of 259, totalling 1.96 per cent. Total percentage of minority students to undergraduate, graduate and law students was 2.41 per cent. 
rn 1968, of 6,162 undergrads, there were 66 blacks. 6 American Indians. 9 Orientals, and :lll Spanish surnamed or 1.93 per cent of the student body defined as minority. Of the 
1.055 graduate students (excluding law), there were 10 blacks, 3 Orientals and 3 Spanish surnamed or 1.52 per cent. Of the 265 law students. there were 4 blacks and onP Spanish surnamed or 1.89 per cent. Total pl.'rcentage forl968 was 1.87 per rent. ,\ctuallv. there was no decline from \967 lwcause of the adoption of HEW standards, which required more minoritY, groups. 
In 1970 there was an increase in minority recruitment efforts. Out of 6,398 un· dergraduates. there were 105 blacks, 17 Anwrican Indians. 24 Orientals and 41 Spanish Americans or 2.6 per cent. Of the 
1.044 grads. there were \3 blacks, 3 Anwrican Indians. 4 Orientals. and 10 Spanish Americans or 2.88 per cent. Of the .t21 law students, there were 17 blacks, one Anwrican Indian, one Oriental and 3 Spanish Americans, of 5.23 per cent. Total perrPntage that year was 2.66 per cent. 
Finally, for the 1972-73 enrollment, from tUI20 undergraduates, there are 137 blacks, 19 Anwrican Indians. 17 Orientals, and 99 Spanish Americans, or 4.06 per cent. Of the 1,870 Graduate students (including law> , there are 17 blacks. 17 Orientals and II· Spanish Americans or 2.42 per cent. Total percentage is 3.75 per cent. 
Interpretations and Comments 
Therefore. it can easily be seen that minority enrollment is steadily increasing. Notre llame is far above HEW standards for blacks for the nation ( 1.9 per cent>. It is to be remembered that all schools became awarl.' of the need for minority recruitment in 1964 with the passage of the Civil Rights Act. according to Registrar, Richard Sullivan. 
The Attrition Rate 

llespite an increase in blacks, majors in black studies. reports Sullivan, have been few. But this is not an indicator of the success of the courses. These courses fall into the other majors as history and an­thropology so. although they are popular, they are rarely majored in themselves. 
Also. the attrition rate for minorities and non-minorities is not significantly different. In fact Sarracino said that if Notre Dame lowpred its admission standards for minorities. there would be a major attrition increase. There has not been any such fluctuation . 
Problems and the Future 

Tlwre are two major problems con­fronting future minority admissions. lllacks are getting a great deal more at­tPntion on other campuses than Chicanos, for l'xample, said Sarracino, and it is getting harder to entice many blacks to a whitP. Catholic, middle-income, mid­W<'SIPrn university such as Notre Dame. Tlw spcond. more major problem, will hit Notre Dame next year. 
Three fPderal scholarship programs. the l•:ducational Opportunity Grant program ($1:000 to a student whose family makes less than $7,500 annually. There are 100 such 
·studl.'nts at N.D.l, The National Defense Studl.'nt Loan (which has'absolutely nothing to do with defense>, and the College Work­Study jobs, will be eliminated under PrPsident Nixon's new budget. This means that Notre I>ame willl) have to pick up the tab for I he students now benefitting from tlwse programs. 2) cut back on financial aid. 3l raise tuition, and or 4) tap the three million dollar endowment principle to be paid back over a short period plus any lost inl<'rest. The last seems to be the most fl•asible since the replenishment could <'asily bl.' accomplished by contributions or a bowl game. 
In any case, minority recruitment may be cut back next year due to this financial ill, and that would be disasterous to a Un­ivl.'rsity like Notre Dame, because ethnic divPrsity is necessary for one's complete <'ducat ion. 

Dan Saracino 

.. 

Tuesday, March 27, 1973 the observer 
$850,000 in scholarships given ·this year at ND 
by Mike Baum Senior Reporter 

Although the figures for student financial aid at Notre Dame rell:'ct an over-all in­ncase during the past five years, cut-backs, espl•cially in federal funding, will make such asistance more difficult to obtain. 
I'articular cases of programs cut by the federal government are the National Direct Student Loan Program and the Educational Opportunity Grants. a minority funding program. 
I lirect aid from the University has in­tn•ased during the past few years. For the I!)(i7-li!l school year. $500,000 was awarded in university scholarships. This includes all l'ndowment awards and any other monies usl'd directly for scholarships. The figures for l!l72-7:l. in comparison. is $850,000. 
!\Ioney pmvided for student jobs at Notre llame has similarly increased during the fi\'c year span--from $420,000 in 1967-68 to approximately $750.000. Sl'veral of the figures for the 1972-7:l school year can only be PSI imated before· the final accounting. Tlw estimates arc conservative. 
Outside student loans, from banks and other sources. also increased over this pPriod. from $956,000 five years ago to a pn•dict('d figure ·.probably in excess of $1.!lOO.OOO this year. 
On the other hand." some sources of 
finaneial aid are becoming increasingly 
~haky. Sc-holarship money awarded from 
outside the llniversity in 1967 came to about 
$435.000.. This year the figure will stand at 
roughly $600,000,. but this apparent in­
l'!"('asee hides several· facts. According to 
!\Irs..Jane McCauslin, director of the Office 
of Financial Aid. "About three years ago 
wll('n there were a lot of disturbances on 
eampuses. this had a large effect on Boards 
of Trustees who ordered aid to students 
eut." 
General Motors lost 

One loss has been large foundation grants 
from General Motors. 
The single major factor that has kept the 
figures for outside financial grants up has 
hl'('n the Indiana State Scholarship 
program. instituted in the meantime, which 
channelled some $200,000 to Notre Dame 
~t udents for this school year. 
Other losses include the National Direct 
.;, udent Loan program. This program, 
which endured a change in name along the 
way, supplied $400,000 in loans to Notre 
llanw students in 1967-68, and another 
:titiOO.OOO 1at least> in 1972-73. According to 
i\ll'Causlin. "As far as we know this 
program will be not funded." 
.\ paralll'l ease is the Educational Op­
portunity Grant Program. a federal 
program offpring direct grants in aid to low 
tncoml' families. This program supplied 
~1%.000 in aid to Notre Dame students five 
~Pars ago. S140,000 this year, and will be 
tl'rminall'd this vear. 
In eontrasL aid to minority students. 
although affected by government cutbacks, 
has lwconw sonwwhat more secure in past 
~ P(ll"S. 
Fin• ~·pars ago there were no figures kept on how man\· minority students at Notre I lanH' n•eei\'ed financial aid, such statistics ha\'ing only recently become to be of in­tl'n•st. I hw of the first major steps taken by tlw l'niversitv in the direction of financial aid spPcificaliy for minority students came in 1!170 whenit was decided to use the Jli'OCl'eds from Notre Dame's participation 
. f 

Mrs. Jnhn McCauslin 
in the 1970 C'ollon Bowl to set up a minority aid program. These proceeds allowed the University to fund one particular class at a rate of about $30,000 a year for their four years at Notre Dame. 
!{ather than rely on the uncertian fortunes of the football team for minority aid funds, the Board of Trustees then set up a three million dollar Minority Endowment. Used in low risk investments, interest from this morl('y never falls below 4 per cent, ac­eording to McCauslin, and is generally higher. 
Currently at Notre Dame a little over 200 studmts ai·e listed as receiveing minority aid of some sort. These funds from all sources--University and outside scholar­ships. loans. work-study programs, ROTC sc-holarships and the like--amount to in l'XC'('SS of $500,000. 
One interesting sideline of the minority aid pieture are the qualifications for being a nwmber of minority. 
Notre Dame recognizes minorities as detailrd by federal guidelines. These break the population down into: American Negro, ,\nwrican Indian. American Oriental, Spanish-American and the popular 
· "Other". . A Spanish-American, for l:'xample. can be 
· !'('Cognized by having a "Spanish-American surname." There are no applied criterion for being an "American Negro, outside of the student's statement of that fact. Said Mrs. McCauslin, "If he considers himself black. then we consider him black." 
Minority Counseling Center 
by David Rust Senior Reporter 

Little more than two months old, Notre llanw's Minority Counseling Center has already begun to produce sparks that might put a Black Student Affairs office into the llniversity administration. 
It was ihe Minority Counseling office, a "satellite" of the Counseling Services and located in the basement of LaFortune St udmt C'enter. which was the coordinating power behind the "SLC Proposals" made by blacks to the Student Life Council early las. i"Pbruary, proposals which included the Pstablishment of a "Black House" and the inclusion of a minority experience course in tlw curriculum. 
llowl•ver. said Clark Arrington, Minority Counseling Ombudsman. these were not ""ur major proposals." 
"What w<'d really like to see," explained tlw second vear law student from l'hiladelphia. · ·is the creation of a Black Studl'nl Affairs office. and one of its func­tions would be to check into the feasibility of such things as a Black House and a black <·xperiencc course." 
Putting together a list of suggestions t·oncl'rning black student life on campus and tlw developmPnt of ND into a "really human eommunity" is only the latest' project sponsored by the C'enter. 
Staffed by Arrington and counselor Ann \\ illiams. a first vear law student from llPtroit with training in psychology, the Cl'nt<•r camP out of a realization that even though the eentral counseling services locatl•d in the Administration building were opl'n to all students. blacks were proving to lw sonwwhat reluctant to take advantage of t lwm. 
( 'onscquently Arrington and Williams, hoth in\'olved with ND counseling since the start of this school year.spent the fall s<•nwster sounding out the campus black t·ommunity mood before pioneering the branch service for minorities. 
\\'hat kind of things do the counselors at tlw ('pnter do for individuals who slop by? 
"\\'p do a lot of ego-boosting," said .-\rrington. "That's one of the biggest ways tot·nmhat racism. Black power. black pride IH'Ips by ('n•ating identity within the in­<hidual... 
:'\o longl'r do counselors take the opposite tat·k and Pneouragc "unreal" expectations of <·nmpll'tl' intl'gration. 
"Tiw biggpst thing we try to do is acquaint 
~tud<·nts with the reality of America." 
.\rrington said. · 
.\rrington sums up the Center's goal as 
hl'ing tlw lwttPrnwnt of "human relations." 
")think thl' dwllenge we're posing to the 
:'\otn• llanw communitv is a human 
('hall<•ng<•. a ehalll'nge dealing '·ith one's 
humanity. with understanding and em­
pathizing with otlwrstudl•ntsat ~otre Dame. 
Currently at Notre Dame a little over 200 students are listed as receiving minority aid of some sort. These funds from all sources ... amount to in excess of $500000. 

We're not espousing segregation, nor any political theory. We hope simply to make Notre Dame an all-around school. The school's made great inroads into the world of sports, into the area of academics -now is Ihe time to start making inroads into human relations." 
Do they service all minorities? 
"That's a question we haven't totally dealt with yet." said Arrington. "We're definitely open to black students, yes, but we have made no overt effort to attract any Indians. Mexican-Americans or Japanese­Americans. 
"Our focus is black," he admitted. 
Sinee it is a relatively new office, the counselors have not had time to establish much in the way of a routine to service the approximately 150 black undergraduates on eampus. although both hold alternate and generous office hours. 
There is some delineation of roles, ac­eording to Arrington. Since it Williams has worked with psychology before, she is more apt to Ialk to students whose problems fall into that line. 
"But all the real repercussions of the probiPms students come to us with are psychological." said Arrington. "Incidents and situations eome up which internalize thdr problems." 
Onl' of these "situations'' is the treatment accorded bla~ks by Campus Security, said .-\rrington. such as frequent and humiliating requests by security officers to see the ID's of black students. 
"Wiwn I hear a problem connected with this sort of thing all I can do is call Security and ask what's going on. Other­wisl•."Arrington made clear, "there's little that can be done. The real effect is withing t lw mind and spirit" of the student asked to show his II>. 
lkcause therapy after the fact is so dif­ficult to obtain the Minority Counseling ('t•nh•r is intent on alleviating the causes lwhi11d the effects. and conducting projects that Pffeet changes for whole groups of pPopll'. not just one. 
This is tht• rationale behind the Center's involn•ml'nt with the larger issues of a Black Student Affairs office. a Black House, and a Black l'xperience course. To un­<h·rstand its involvement it is essential to umlprstand the reasons why. 
"\\'p try to get to the root of the prohll'ms." said Arrington. "We think it's an attidudinal problem. and we think it can hp diminished by instituting this black <'XIWI'il'ncl' course at Notre Dame." 
:\rrington put forth other reasons for the l'OllrSl'. 
.. Blacks an• forced to deal with whites 
t'\'l'ryday ... lw Pxplained. .. A white can 
~pl'tHI four ~·pars at Notre [!arne without 
1'\'l'r <·oming into contact with black 
~tud<·nts. 
Yt·t man~· of thl'Se same whites will 

Clarl~ Arrington 
graduate into decision-making positions in which thev'll have to madke decisions which affl'et bla.cks." he went on. "If they have sonw l'tnpathy they'll make better decisions for blacks. They'll make better decisions for t lw l'ount ry ..~ 
Tlw idea of 'setting up a Black House off campus. said Arrington. tried to satisfy t hrl'P purposes: to have "some type of off­campus outlet for black students where they ean fppJ at home." to give the South Bend l'ommunrty some professional expertise in tlw an•a of tutoring. income tax and ap­plication forms. and "to give Notre Dame a much lwtter image then they now have" with South lknd blacks. 
"Our proposals are so misunderstood." said Arrington. "These were all to be studil'd hy a Black Student Affairs office." 
.-\t'l'ording to Arrington this proposal has eomP up sevl.'ral times in the last four years. dying l'ach tinw. 
"Yet Wl' need someone in the ad· ministl'ation who can present the needs of hlal'k stud<•nts to the administration. ~onwom• who'll look outfor job placement. grad sdwol opportunities. social activities. s('holarship opportunities and research." 
(;ram·illt• Cll'\'eland. Black Student Af. Ia il's <'otllmit tl'l' ehairman. holder of se\'eral ntlwr positions'in thl' administration and the unoffieia I Iiai~on lwt W<'l'n Student Affairs and tlwblack t·ommunitv. does not have t•nough tinH' or authorit~·. said Arrington . hul'd<•ned as lw is with his offices. 
"ThP ('ounsl•ling ('l·ntl'r has push('d for tlw ereat ion of a Blaek Student Affairs of· fin•. and \H' will continue to push for it." he coneludl'd. 
the observer Tuesday, March 27, 1973 
MECHA's message: Chicanos are American 
"Pensamientos" do Jose Luis Gonzalez Sobre Mecha A Las Ocho De La Manana 
About the time of the Christ Passion there was unfolding on the other side of the world an (•vent that went unnoticed and unn'corded in the journals of Western man. It was in the valley of Anahuac down in the interior of Mejicb that the Nahuas, the 
Tol\ecs. the f'hichimecas, and the great Aztpcs formed one of the truly great civilizations man has ever discovered. 
The advt•nt of this civilization came as a n·sult of the t•xodus from Atzlan by the t ril)('s. Tlwy moved down into the interior of 1\h•jico wlwre they flourished until the ('oming of the Spanish. It is in this exodus wlwn• Chicanos find their true origins. En Ia Ppoca dPI (luinto Sol, lluetzalcoatl gave birth to his pPople. 
With Pach "new age" cernes its own youth 1dent ity erisis. Chicanos, surprisingly, are not new upon the scene. But ours is not simply a problem of yourth; ours en­l'OlllJiasses a struggle for survival--a sf ruggle that includes the survival of our l'Uiture. our lwritage, and our language. I )Javt• wt to rind a Chicano that has admitted lw t:an identify with his "American lwritagl•." It almost sounds foreign to us. It 1s tht• language of the barrio that has helped Chicanos keep their identity. For those of us fortunate {'!1ough to live down in the South­II'Pst. tlw proximity of Mejico to our borders ct'rtainly has not hindered our ad­l'aneenwnl. Our forward progress con­I imtl'S undaunted. 
But don·t gl'l l 'hicanos wrong. We are as ,\nwrican as Ia ,Jpfa. tacos. y Ia ruca I left behind. 
\\'lwn you picture the hard and difficult tinws our country has faced. and stands to 
. faee with tht• reign of Richard Nixon, you see concerned citizens mobilizing to protect their hard-Parned rights. Out of thisconcern Chieanos banded together. formed their 
.small but t•ver-growing clubs, and proceed to reform their second-class· status. It isn't as had now as it was when I was a kid (and hov howdy. couldi tell you some stories), hui one should not overlook the fact that Chicanos in their peaceful but vocal efforts have managed to make some politicians listPn. Hence. the entire system has just hardy begun to move to rectify the many inequities that exist. To paraphrase Jose Ang{'] <:utierrez de Crystal City, Texas, to thP Anglo. just ice has too long meant "just­us. 
El 1\lovimiento Estudiantil Chicano de .-\zt Ian is just one of the many national Chbuw youth organizations preserving what has already begun while at the same tinw carrying forth various programs of i'llprovt'ml'nt. Such action could constitute polit ieal. social. and ':'Ultural among other l'fforts of awareness. 
1\l E.C !I.A. here at Notre Dame admits slightly over 100 members--both active and non-act il'l'. 11 is no secret that many would likt• to lll'lieve that. say. five to ten years ago. tlw~· could havt> still come to Notre Ilanw Without anv reference to their ethnic "latus Foolish. 'tittle people. MECHA's, \I.\ YO's. et al. all over the country are chil'fl~ n·sponsible for the progress that has lu•l'n made. While somt• have been more succPssfulthan otht•rs. here at Notre Dame, \I 1-:t '11.\ has nH't with moderate success. 
This modt•ratt• su<'ccss is measureahle in tl'rms of tlw student body's response to the 1·arious lectures ant! functions Chicanos makt' available to them. MECHA tries to bring quality speakers ~ to til(' campus who have something im­portant to say without spewing out the rlwtoric and losing the audience. Yet the lailurc to communicate comes often from both sides. i\lore often than not. Anglos are willing to admit a problem exists. but they \1ould much rather not talk about it. 
\\'lwn leame here as a freshmen back in the fall of 1970. there were only 10 or so undt•rgraduate Chicanos, with a slightly 
. lt•sst•r numl){'r of graduates. that were active. \\'ith that handful of students we ha\'c progressed in two years to increase o.ur sizP close to ten fold. 
\\ithin the organization. undergraduates, gt:aduates . and the law students all work . togl•ther to solve our common problems and 
·hind a !wiping hand to those that prey on our ni<·mbers collectively and individually. \\ 1th this concentratPd effort implemented hy ·the present Chicano administration, lhings st'Pm to be going well. although we don't .seem to have the groomed efficiency 1.1f \Jr. :\iXOn 
Thus. one of our two major goals is n•tTUlf nll'nl The second is organization hPn· on campus The recruitment program 1s going well as can he testified hythe fresh­mt•n Chicanos at J'l;otre Dame today. ~tatistically. these Chicanos are the very best and they have performed well. But, "Well' ' is not good enough, for there seems to be something about Notre Dame that turns Chicanos off. 

Thus. our attrition rate is terribly high and frightening. Those who stay do out­standing work considering many of their backgrounds. But. nonetheless, the problem of keeping Chicanos here at Notre !lamP is something the University should st•riously consider. 
It is incumbent upon the University to hire counselors that can cope with Chicano problems. This request is a fair one. 1\lajors of every kind have their respective eounselors. but one should remember that acPdt>mics are not the entirety of life--­social problems can get the best of anyone, especially here at Notre Dame. 

Jose Gonzalez 

Chicanos as freshmen have encountered the stereo-typed administrators and counselors here at Notre Dame. Comments such as. "How come you're white if you're Chicano?" and "If you're Chicano, how come you don't speak Spanish" are some of the lesser bad experiences of Chicanos at Notre Dame. 
Predominantly, most of the Chicanos attending the University come from con­servative. Catholic high schools. As a consequence. MECHA finds it difficult to attract these Chicanos. They regard us as remnants of Red herrings and Mark Rudd. 
Quite the opposite is true. 
For organziational purposes, MECHA lwld its first Chicano-sponsored freshmen orientation during September, 1972. Chicanos attended and for the first time wPre given an opportunity to meet the other ('hieanos at Notre Dame. During last semester's trying times, Chicanos were having problems academically so MECHA and llr. Julian Samora, our faculty sponsor from Ihe Sociology department, got together to offpr somt> counselling services to the students. 
Furtht>rmore. MECHA holds its regular meetings in the office located in La Fortune Student Center. These meetings provide an opportunity for Chicanos to plan any future social and cultural events plus any lectures desired. NPedless to say, this also provides interaction between Chicanos on an in­formal basis. The meetings are conducted informally and all a Chicano need do is walk in. sit himself down. and join in. 
Our organizational efforts have been fairly successful this semester. Thus far we hav<~ two lectures scheduled. The lectures an' by Hamsey Muniz. 1972 gubernatorial candidate in the state of Texas, and the sl'cond is by Fr. Juan Homero, executive director of PADHES, an organization of activist priests foundedin the 60's after the Hangers were playing gang-busters in the Valley of Texas. Muniz should tell you all vou ever wanted to know about La Raza iIn ida ~n Texas and Romero should give you th!:' Church's view--from a Chicano per­spective. 
Our community involvement has been excellent. In the past years we have been unable to give our time to organize the small fry at the labor camps, but we did contribute funds to finance their Pee-Wee league baseball teams. Similar help has been of­fered to other camps, but true to our tradition, our Chicanismo prevailed and we WPre noble in our efforts. This year the lwleaguered bi-cultural, bi-lingual day care center. El Campito, asked for our help and WP responded by giving them $500 in Mardi <iras charity funds. Community in­volvemPnt such as this enhances the image and relations students share with the community. 
To attpst to the efficiency of our organization. the budget approval by the StudPniGovernmenl made back in Sep­IPmlwr. 1972, shows evidence that we submiiiPd a plan that was impressive. We I'('Ceived an amount of funds that was substantially more than what the average would have bet>n. i.e. 21 organizations sharing $20.000. This show by the Finance ('ommittPe is surely a sign of approval and acknowledgnwnt that MI<:CHA would wisPiy use the funds according to the budget 
,proposed. 
. In condusion. I would like to offer rPcognition to those Chicanos who ha.ve made 1\H:CIIA what it is today. Our thanks go to llr. Julian Samora for sponsoring us and giving us the incentive to want to work. Knowing that he is then· to help makes the Pl'forl much Pasier. To the graduates. !:illwrto Cardenas has always given 100 per ('Pnl. Delfino Landeros whose papas and frijolPs were delicious on those cold winter nights back in Hl70, and the dynamic duo of 1\likl' Carranza and Albert Mala. As for the llndergraduates. we are really too num­lll'rous to namP. Roberto Cgomez. Jose Antonio <iarza. Phil de Miguel. and Tony 1\lolina have been excellent. And last goes to nuestro abogado. Luis Jaramillo, head of tlw Chicano Law Students. 
Saludes a los del west side de San antonio ~· para el mundo--­
pay y tierra 

International Students Association 
represents all minority groups 
by Amaury Velez Pres. International Student Association 

There are presently enrolled at the University 350 foreign students from 56 different countries. These students and several otht>r interested American students form what is known as the International Student Association. The I.S.A. is the only official student organization representing the total international student community at the llniversity of Notre Dame and St. 1\lary's College. 
The objPct ives of the Association are to provide assistance to the foreign students in solving their various problems and to coordinate t•vents and activities of interest to them: to stimulate and support programs of international interest on the campus: and to stimulate greater awareness and communication between the ,\nwrican and the foreign students and Iwtwem the foreign student and other in­tl'rested pPople of the local community. 
llnder the I.S.A .. there are three national associations. Indian. Chinese, and Pan .-\nwriean which maintain their individual identity. but at the same time participate in tlw overall planning of activities affecting all international students. These three associations plan their activities for the ~·ear ahead. and prepare a budget of an­ticipated expenses which is submitted to the 
l.S.A. and then to Student Government. Tlwse budgets are added to the funds requested by the I.S.A. on behalf of all international students. 
This budget is always the largest. since it n'quests funds to finance activities in­,·olving all international students and in­tl•n•stPd American students. 
\\'ilh repecct to annual elections, mem­]){'rs of the I.S.A. working committee were elected at a general meeting of all Ih­tl'rnational Students. The Pan American. 
Indian. and Chinese Associations elected 
tlwir own presidents and these served as the 
rl'presentatives to the I.S.A. Executive 
Board. 

This year however. at the last meeting it was decided that membership to the Board would he changed to provide for two dPll'gates from each of the three major dubs and two delegates from those students major dubs would be determined by l'lt•et ions held within those clubs them­st'IH•s. The election for delegates from the otlwr international students would be coordinated by the Office of International Studl'nt Affairs. The eight delegates would Pll•ct a chairman and appoint a treasurer and st•cretary from among themselves. 

who  are  not  represented by  the  three  
major elubs.  
Tlw  delegates  from  each  of  the  three  

This measure was taken because the pn•sPnt apathy. one of our major problems. 
\\'ould make it difficult to conduct a n•presentative election this year as it has in the past. Hopefully, this will provide for a hettl'r representation of the whole in­ternational student body and establish lwtlt•r communication among tne students hl'longing to the different national associations. This Executive Board will promote and coordinate activities and shall n•pn•sent the collective body of in­ternational students before the Univeristy Administration and the Student 
(COil(illU('d On fl. 9) 

Tuesday, March 27, 197j the observer 
Notre Dame a citadel of ignorance;~ 
.·
Block House helps relate university role to community 

whites must understand now 
by Carl Ellison 

Few white Americans have taken time to study the real dimensions of the color problem , except insofar as it .touches them pPrsonally as whites. In the context of our spgregatcd society, it touches all too few n•ry a cut ely. 
l{(•y. ThPodore M. Hesburgh. C.S.C. 
Limitations of space prevent more than a l'Ursorv discussion of the frustration this blae.k ~tudent has experienced in attempting In address the numerous and intricate prob!Pms which blacks encounter at Notre I lame. Limitations of meaningful contact \\·ith black perople may prevent many whites from understanding the essence of what will he said anyway. But no matter. 
At least the attempt will have been made again.
ThP lfnivPrsity has long lauded itself for tlw · degrel' of academic excellence it maintains. That Notre Dame is a good 
1 perhaps great l school is entrenched in the 
minds of manv. Yet. believe it or not. Notre 
I lame is a l'itadel of ignorance insofar as 
black students and their needs are con­
dernPd. 
The University's ignorance of black 

dPsirPs is manifested in many ways. On the 
part of tlw administration. the clearest 
(•xampll' of it can be found in a brief in­
n•st igat ion of the effect on black students of 
tlw university's move toward coeducation. 
l•:vervonP recalls that men were asked to 
\·acaie Badin and Walsh Halls in order to 
provide space for female students. By 
lwcom m ing uprooted from their halls, these 
nu•n sacrificed in the name of coeducation. 
Black mPn were among those who moved. 
But tlw degree to which Notre Dame 
lwcanw coeducational for them is shameful. 
or approximately 135 black students only 7 
arp women. If that is coeducation it is token 
at best. 
Tlw Admission's Office has gone to great 

pains to explain why so few black women 
arP pnrolled here. And while they have put 
forth some credible arguments, they have 
fail•!d to point out what is perhaps the most 
rpasonable explanation of it. Simply put, 
Knowledge of black experience needed to understand demands 
by Mike Nickerson 

When the groups of black students under Carl r:llison and Clark Arrington's leadership went before the Student Life Council. tht> idea of the meeting was to prPsl'nt \h(• current situation of blacks on tlw campu~. 11 was one of the many at­l<'mpts that have occured in the past. and I am surP will occur in the future, of trying to (•ducaiP whites in the needs of black students. 
Tlw nwrting. for the most part, was the interests-of black people were virtually ignored because the University became involved with what it considered more important concerns. I refer to the "merger­unmerger" with St. Mary's and the lfniversity's eventual decision to go coed. BPcause black women applicants were in many cases out of contact with an Ad­mission's Office busied by the aforemen­tioned concerns, black women applicants soon lost interest and decided to cast their lots Plsewhere. 


The unfortunate consequence of this is that in spite of warning as long as three years ago by Dave Krashna and others, a coed Notre Dame is not coed for black students. In deciding where to point the blaming finger, one could easily single-out the Admission's Office. That, however, would be unfair and unrealistic. 
The source of the problem resides beyond the confines of the Admission's Office. In its purest sense it can be traced to the top level 
deci.sion makers of the University 
. They seem to make decisions which affect the University in general without con­sidering the potential side-affects of such decisions on black students. There is no built in administrative check which allows the concerns and desires of the blacks to be articulated when the top level decisions are made. 
The result of this is obvious. Black desires are often negated by a University ignorant <due to lack of inputl of the needs of the black people.
In hopes of making my point more clear. I 
\\·ill cite another example. Many black 
students want to feel as much a part of 
Notre Dame as is possible. They recognize 
that they are a resource the University 
sorely needs in order to satisfy its desire for 
diversity. Their presence on caopus 
provides a needed element in the Notre 
Dame campus community. 
But their ability to stay on campus is 
threatened by the university's decision to 
force students off-campus. If the University 
seeks to retain a high visibility level among 
female students bynot allowing them to 
move off-campus. why then should the 
visibility level of blacks on campus be 
threatened? Is not our presence on campus 
as important as women and athletes. Do 
athletes add more diversity to campus life 
than blacks? Is not forcing blacks off­
campus an act of counter-productivity? An 
successful in its purpose. I believe that the administration understood our requests and has since then set out to move on the issues presented. But because of slanderous ar­ticles and attitudes. the idea of the Black House has been misconstrued. So I am writing this article to let the student body know just what is involved in our Black House proposal. 
The Black House would not only benefit 
blacks on campus but through its establish­
mPnt Notre Dame would be performing a 
much needed resource for the black com­
munity. Notre Dame would be giving blacks 
on this campus a resource where they could 
bring together the college broth~r and the 
l'ity brother on equal terms. · Communication is not just a problem 
between blacks and whites, we also have 
problems communicating amongst our­
selves. A Black House would not only help 
communications, but it would aid our black 
reality, something this campus doesn't do. 
It would be a place where blacks, who do not 
have means to traveL could go and relax 
from the atmosphere of this campus. 
But its most important function would be 
the fulfilling of the young blacks need to 
relate what he learns at this University to 
his black community. Blacks cannot go 
home and work in the community since this 
is their home for nine months out of the 
war. The Black House would Jet him 
~·xpress this need in the South Bend com­
munitv. 
The. Cultural Center in LaFortune is a 
place where information can be attained on 
tlw black t•xperience while the Black House 
would he a place where the black experience 
could be felt. 
\\"lwn you talk about black studies. black 
affairs. or anything that concerns blacks on 
the campus. you have to have an un­
d(•rstanding of the black experience. If you 
can't understand whv blacks make certain 
demands for resources it is because you appropriate response to the above questions must come from the University. 
The point of all of this should be evident. The University. is guilty of making yet another policy decision without consideing the effect of it on black people. Further the Univesity has failed to be mindful of the counter-productivity of its action. Because of it. all will suffer. Blacks will be forced to make yet another sacrifice in the name of the token coeducation they experience. And whites will suffer from the lessened op­portunityof having meaningful contact with blacks..Such is the tragedy ND experiences due to the tJniversity's ignorance of the needs of black ·students. 
I certainly . ·do not accuse the ad­ministration· of general ill will or sinister intentions..They are, for the most part, sincere,· dedicated and well-meaning men. ll~;ually the University moves to correct an error caused· ·by an administrative over­sight. I expect that to occur in regard to the matter discussed above. My only hope is that the Universty takes steps to remove the wPb of ignorance under which it operates in regard io the problems, desires and needs of black students. · 
It would beunrealistic to pretend that the Pntire blame for. black students troubles rests on the shoulders of the administration. Students too ·are guilty. They too are ignorant of bl<ick student needs. With them 1hough the tragedy is even greater than with the administration. 
Should one recall the Black House 
proposal which was one of a group of 
proposals outlined by a number of black 
students at the February 5 meeting of the 
S.L.C., one will remember that it drew the 
greatest amount of comment from the 
campus white student community. It did so 
primarily because it called for the 
University to. become pioneering in 
providing resources for the blacks. It asked 
the University to take a chance--to deviate 
from the safe confines of University policy 
conservatism. White students failed to see 
the pioneering aspect of the proposal. All 
they saw was .the University being asked to 
provide a party house for niggers. 
Although I have been surprised by the level of social consciousness on the part of the white student body on a few occassions, whites have generally impressed me as weII-meaning, walki ng-and-talki ng examples of ignorance and naivete of black 
·I* 
The Cultural c·enter where in·Jormation to all. 
don 'I under.stahd ·this black experience. Blacks do not appear at the age of eighteen and Pnter this· C~tholic University. They have had e.ighteen years of playing a very rough gamP in this country called growing up black. 
This means living in slums, where roaches and rats are play toys; attending a 
inferior educational facility, where school is not a place to learn but just a place to oeeupy I ime and a place to come home from In a family, where you play the role of father at the ago of twelve because your old man eouldn't handle it. · 
Because of different events of the past, black nwn and winnen are just truly finding their identity in this·country. Blacks. then :'\('gr'Ol'S. in the past tried to be white. Through attitudes ... material symbolism, and even bleaching 'cream, blacks finally lried to blend into the Great American :\IPlting Pot. Thi$• m·ethod didn't work. 
Tlwn• an• still some of my people foolish ('tJOugh to still believe that this is the road to follow. But most of my people Jearn from !his masquerade that no matter what they do. tlwv will still be black. 
Fron; this awakening of color. Black 
:'\at ionalism was born. Blacks started 
working together to break the oppressive 
ehains that bound them in this country. 
Parents realizing this O'ppressive at-
Carl Ellison --It would be unrealistic to pretend that the entire blame for black students troubles rests on the shoulders of . the administration.
---......-----,-,-­

pPople. Some would argue that they are typical of most white people. In terms of the average white student's contact with blacks 
prior to coming to Notre Dame, the amount is probably quite low. 
I say this not to brow beat whites, but to make the point that often the white student who criticizes a proposal put forth by blacks students is in no position to understand the npeds of blacks students. Consequently, blacks usually must spend time trying to correct the misunderstandings of whites in ordPr to get support for proposals. Our energies become spread thin. The result: \\'l' suffer the frustrating exper1ence of constantly having to combat the ignorance of whites about black people. 
i''m·ced to be our own advocates for programs and resources, we, of course, can never deny the need for student support for any proposal we make. We need you. But it . is up to you to realize that you are. in part, responsible for thwarting efforts put forth · by us. 
'The time to create greater white student understanding of blacks is now. One means of doing this could be the proposed required "l\1inority Experience" course. It may not . work. But until the University and the white student body are willing to recognize that a web of ignorance surrounds their reactions to black student proposals, our efforts will remain frustrated. 
about the black experience is available 
mosphere in this country looked for a mean.s, to overcome it. · . 
.\\"hat they discovered was education. s.o·... , through a lot of toil and strife. blacks are· · now on eollege campuses. And the question : ·· that blacks ask is this. "Have we escaped·: th.ts atmosphere or has the oppression just subtly been changed~" · 
I'm not going to answer this. I just wanted . to point it nut. Now, concerning the Black !louse. it has been strengthened bythe Bla.tk fwoplP for the good nf the black people. This is not unfair to the white community which lwndits immenselv from its facilities. Even tlw South BPnd \~hite communitv benefits from the presence of Notre Dame. Blacks·. who are realizing their needs, also realize· that this l'nviersity is not fulftliing their rweds. A Black House would be one step ·.in .. ·. thP right din•ction.We realize that there·w.ill: · bP problems. but whenever something ·new· is t riPd there are always problems. Already ·. :\lr. ,\rkt'rm<m \Student Affairs Office\·and' · m~·splf hit\;est~i'lt out letters and plan to visri .. !\lark lluttsi.·~ _itt' _lither major universities ·rn. ·. an ath'mpt li> s1il\·e these problems. 
S1i all Wt' areasking for is the l'l'solln'l's 
rr:om tlw administration, support from the 
student body. patience from all and the time 
lo work out tlw problems that will occur and 
l'all bt• t·om]uen•d in the forming of the 
l 'nin•rsity of Notre Dame Black House. 

the observer Tuesday, M~rch 27, 1973 





Native Americans: living •1n a marginal zone 

by Forrest Whiterabbit 

In spite of racial prejudice that has kept tlw American Indian down over the years, in ~pile of the repeated acts of broken.faith by tlw government. in spite of the brutal 1n•at nwnt of a defeated people and ·the inadequate attempts to restore their pride, dignity. and eeonomic well-being, the. Anwriean Indian still exists as a group. 
A Marginal Zone 

But the Native American Jives in amarginal zone between the whiteman's world and his traditional culture. He is torn hPtwePn the desire for success and a need to h<· true to tradii ion. a tradition that often indudes a bitt~r. generations-old mistrust of the white man. He has learned from the white man not to count on promises. 
Conflicting Culture 

The Indian was told by the white man that his problem was one of conflicting culture. Yet, there was never a time when the white man said he was trying to help the Indian get into the mainstream . of Anwrican life and that he did not also demand thattlw Indian give up land,. water. minerals. 1imber.and otherrPsources which would Pnrich the white man. 
Tlw ·. 1\nwrican Indian is also going through :.r gradual re-evaluation of his 
. imag<' .and his place in and out of white soeipty. Pride in being Indian is growing, PXpl'l·ially among the ~·oungergeneration. 
· lncn•ased·exposure 10 higher education is teaehing them ·that ·their economic back­warnPss is due, not to an inferiority. but to 1lw white man's failure to show them how to <'<lrn :1 living after systematically dest r(Jyin~ their culture. 
· ·Frustrated by Limitations 
Tlw Indian is frustrated by the econom1c and sotiallimilations imposed on him over the last two centuries. The majority of the 
· rpservat ions are notorious pockets of poverty where school dropouts are common at the fifl h-grade level. Motivation ceases to exist. and yet in few other areas of 1\.nwrica is there a greater need for trained 
business managers. teachers, legal and nwdical authorities. The Native American Club of Notre Dame :was fomwd in 1971 in an effort to help the 
Anwrican Indian through the recruitment of Indians for higher education. Presently, tlw dub consists of five Indian students. 'l'hP objeelives of the club are to assist the Indian student at Noire Dame. to ~ducate .tlw Notre ))arne eommunity in terms of Native Americans. to establish an awan•ness of Indians by Notre Dame faeulty. and to take the initiative in assisting l'ommunity aetion programs concerning the surrounding Indian communities. 
Continue> to Persist 

Till' dub's accomplishments include: !wiping to eonvert a two-car garage into a full~· approved Pducational institution for both ehildren and adults in an Indian neigh­borhood. eonducting Indian culture classes at this eenter. sponsoring a weekend campus visit hv more than 330 Sioux 
. n•serval ion leaders and perspective stud<•nts. and increasing the number of Indian students at Notre Dame. 
Through higher l'dueation and ·the for­
mation of groups such as· the Native ·i\nwrican Club. the American· Indian will eont inue .to persist. . · . · · 
Notre Dame: a schoolwith an lndianheritage 
by David Rust Senior Reporter 
Why did the U.S. Government try so hard to corner Billy the Kid'? 
Was it because he robbed banks, stole horses. was a gunfighter and in general a despicable desperado'? 
The reason lies in none of these. Billy the Kid was wanted by the government for his violent support of Indian and Spanish -AmPrican land rights. 
And it was during this time that the "Hobin Hood of the Plains" teamed up with Notre Dame student Juan Petron and fought in the Lincoln Country waragainst land· ~rabbers for the Indians. 
Actually. Notre Dame's connection to the Native Americans extends several years further back in time. The school sits on Indian land. and Fr. Sorin was invited here by the Indians to introduce Christianity and pcJucation to the region. 
The stories are true. said Dr. Adoph Soens. professor of English and Chairman of tlw Nil Faculty Indian Affairs Tribe \FIATl. an organization chartered four ~·pars ago to increase the number of Native Anll'rican students on campus and the linanl'ial aid they receive. 
"W<• ~ot started because some of the Iacult v had noticed that the University was on Indian land. pictures of Indians hung in tlw Administration building and the South I >ining I!all. a sidekick of Billy the Kid was 
· !'\ll sl udent Juan Petron, ND sports programs were initiated by Indians--and \'l'l with all these connections there were \·pry h.•w Indians on campus. 
"FIAT is actually a faculty advisory commitiN~ on Aid to Education." explained SoPns. "Wf' try to get funding on Indian ~cholnr:>hips whenever we can." Indians study Notre Dame, said Soens, who hopes to eventually double that number. ('\'('11 quadruple it. 
llut just getting more Indians on the ('ampus is not the whole answer, said FIXI"s ehief. 
.. Some kind of successful scholarship program must be set up to keep the Inidans . lwn• oncp they get here," said Soens. "A lot ol programs have a big dropout rate. That · .doPsn't nwan there is something wrong with · . tlw student--it means there is something 
\Hong with the program." · ThPSl' tww programs would have to take . tnto account the fact that half of all Indians 
in tlw l'nited States today live in urban an•as. 
,\nd there are urban Indians living in very dose proximity to the campus right now. ,\('cording to Soens the Shingomissi band of tlw :\liami tribe. when the rest of the tribe was marehed West. hid in the area north of \otn• l>ame and Jive there today. 
"\\'p'\'e tried to set up programs for the Shingomissi." said Soens. "We did have a tutoring program going. with ND students tutoring Shingomissi children. but for some n•ason that hasn't caught on here this year. 
"Hut ol course we keep trying." he went on. "W<'re a long range group''. 
Thus i"IAT ('Ontinues to look into the poss1blilities for ND scholarship programs lor nativ<> AmPricans. trying to hit up(Jn the right formula. 

"We've noticed that where scholarship programs for Indians nave succeeded," reflected Soens, "that is, where students don't drop out--there has existed some kind of cultural enclave." 
I n trying to find that right formula and in the interest of service to Indian com­munities, FIAT has perpetrated several schemes, including creating libraries, setting up schools, giving legal assistance, sponsoring a campus visit by Sioux reser­vation leaders and prospective students, and setting up a campus powwow by representatives from several Midwest tribes. 
So far. FIAT's main funding has come from University President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh's personal donations. "We've put out a couple of proposals for more substantial funding," said Soens. "So far we haven't connected." 
There are other weightier reasons why Notre Dame has a commitment to bring Indian students to campus, argued Soens. 
"Before we nad our first coach, our sports program was being run by Indian students, "Ihe FIAT chief said. Those were the days when a significant number of Indians were attending the University. 
··Lacross is probably the oldest sport on campus." said Soens. "Notre Dame is very doselv related to the native Americans." 
Hight now two FIAT men are working on scholarly articles about Notre Dame's l'onnections to Indians: Forrest White rabbit of the Shingonissi band, is working on a paper concerning early sports coach Chiev 

Pnkagon and that group. and ·Soens is · Thrc>c> ·members: of th~ Native. Americ~n.CiulJ'o{Not~c> Dame.· ... 
n Petron. 


0 •••••

ANNOUNCING! 
The Observer has paid positions open in its business department 
Assistant Business Manager 
should be a business maior with accounting experience will move to business manager's post 

Assistant· Advertising Manager 
must be able to work from 10:00 to 5:00 daily (Mon. Fri.) Applications and resumes should be submitted to Jerry Lutkus 
.. -.
.. ..


Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 or brought to The Observer office by Fri. Mar. 30. 




Tuesday, March 27, 1973 the observer 
Internationals outnumber blacks 




Law, attitude and money plague SMC minorities 
by Maria Gallagher St. Mary's Editor 

Minority students at Saint Mary's are precisely that. Currently only ten international students and seven blacks are enrolled. Each group has problems unique to their situation, but both agree on one thing: Saint Mary's is not providing adequately for their needs. 
The International Student 

Legal entanglements are the primary problems faced by in­ternational students. according to 
•Judy Fong, secretary of the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's association of. international students. She placed these above language and social adjustments. although W~e too may prove difficult obstacles to some students. A member of the task force for minority and in­ternational students, Fong said that she's not sure anything will be done for them in the future, but she feels that a legal counselor on the Saint Mary's campus is definitely needed. 
"When an international stydent has legal problems, there is no one here we can go to. We have an international student advisor, but I don't feel she's been helpful at alL In legal matters we have access to Notre Dame. but we should have someone here qualified to handle 
them."  
Most  of  Saint  Mary's  in­ 
ter national s tudents  are  of Latin  
descent.  the  senior  Panamanian  

noted. She would like to see the college "go more international, but only if they could provide adequately for the students." 
The task force has "not come to any definite conclusions yet," revealed Fong, but they have been 
ISA executive board activities 
(continued from p. 6) 
Government in all matters of common interest, but especially in directing funds for I.S.A. student activities. 
The international Students Board disburses all funds granted to International Students, with an especial criterion to the ex­penditure of funds leading to a greater international cultural, academic and intellectual con­tirbution to the University. 
The I.S.A. Board does not con­cern itself directly with activities of the Chinese, India and Pan American Clubs. Such activities are organized by the committes of each of these associations. 
Some of the activities annually sponsored by the I.S.A. include an International festival, an evening of cultural entertainment from around the world. Tiis year it will be held at Washington Hall at 7:30 pm on Friday, Apr;l 13. Also sponsored is a Fall Orientation for newly arrived foreign students. Several social activities are organized and open to the entire St. Mary's-Notre Dame community. Unfortunately attendance has been sparse, both by American and foreign students. 
The International Student Af­fairs office is located in the basement of La Fortune Student Center. and directed by Father Dan O'Neil. Also located in the basement is the International room. used by foreign students and their friends as a meeting place, and also used by the I.S.A. to conduct their formal business. 
A host family program was developed with the South Bend eommunity. The host families help the international student adjust to the American life style. AAlso affiliated with the International Student Association is a weekly radio program which goes on the 
studying the attitude on campus There is an international student Senior Vansetta Childs, Human which she termed "not healthy." advisor, but as Fong put it, the help Affairs Commissioner was ap­"One of our main setbacks is offered is negligible and there is a pointed to recruit black students. 
financial aid. The financial aid need for someone to help with legal office is considering a proposal to problems. She believes that the "I couldn't in conscience do it accept only those students who can office should be · "more in­because I don't want any more 
be offered full four-year formative," and that international black students to come here. As scholarships." students should be better prepared Dr. Henry said, 'having black Currently, distribution of for what to expect at SMC. students is expensive.' If they 
scholarships is handled by the ·social events are primarily don't have the money ... then it's American Field Service. handled through the international time to be honest about it. This Sop\:lomore Rita Di Dio "did not Students Association, which is year four of us will graduate and choose specifically Saint Mary's," but came as a result of a scholarship awarded her through this service. A transfer from the University of Modern Languages 
St. Mary's had twenty-six 
in Milan, Italy and a resident of Milan. Di Dio said she was basically "not excited about Saint Mary's, "and cited several typical problems that many international 

blocks lost year . 
students face. 

"My greatest difficulty was trying to transfer credits from my other school," she said. "Saint Mary's would not accept them, and 

Now there are seven. 
when I came here, I had to start all over as a freshman." She is still working to have the credits ac­cepted. 
based at Notre Dame. Not only pretty soon the rest of us will be·'The language was also a big does the organization plan ac­gone. And then Saint Mary's canproblem for a couple of months, tivities, but offers and opportunity be happy."
especially in classes," she 
for students to share common 
recalled, "and it is also my first Saint Mary's has no other
problems.

experience with dorm life." minority recruitment program; Di Dio found the students A task force in the Saint Mary's but until this year no recruitment "generally friendly, but it planning process has been created program of any kind existed. No
was 

the of are
difficult to get in a group because to review situation in­special plans under w·ay for 
ternational and black student, but actively recruiting blacks.
of the language, and there were 
no definite conclusions have been
some social adjustments to make. 
Psychological adJustment

reached, and only two of of the five 
"At home it's no big thing to talk to proves difficult in many cases, and
student members on the group are
the guys in your classes, but if you although there are about 200 blacks
from minorities. Apparently the
approach them here, they think. 
students feel strongly and the at Notre Dame, SMC's blackyou're looking for a date. You women cite a somewhat erratic
suggestions are there, but they do 
have tb learn the rules." 
social situation.

not express much hope for a
DiDio agreed that "Saint Mary's response from the college.
doesn't do enough for international Interracial dating, while of little students." consequence to the international "When I came here I had no idea . student, can be a problem for the
The Black Student
what to expect, and the orientation black. program was very vague." 
Black students have met several "It's a matter of individual times with SMC administrators choice," said junior class vice­
What is offered 
this year, and they generally agree president Monica Stallworth, "but that their "high visiblility" on a although the brothers do a lot of it, What does Saint Mary's offer the campus where they comprise the sisters are condemned when international student? Scholar­
about 5 per cent of the student body they do." 
ships handled through the 
is their biggest problem They feel doesn't see ·large
,\merican Field Service bring Pool any
the disproportion makes them 
most of them here, but the con­problems after a semester and a·
''objects of curiosity" which can be 
sensus among both students and half, and noted that her first im­
rem~died only by increasing the
administrators is that better pression was "not good." Since
black student population.
financial provisions could and then, however, she feels her should be made. However, this However, the discontent of the outlook has improved throught her could further decrease the number black student at SMC lies personal experience. of international students on primarily with administrative 
"Social life is what blacks make 

campus. One recommendation attitude towards them and ac­it," she feels. 
being considered by the task force companying financial 
However, there i!> little or no participation of SMC women in Ujamma or the New Frontier Scholastic Society at Notre Dame.


''Legal problems are the 
Administrative policy brought mixed responses. 
"Henry seems like he's willing to listen," said Stallworth, "and he did correct some financial 
problems and hire a counselor. But I don't know if that's enough." 
Pool said she was not dissatisfied with any policies in particular, but other students cited bad <i.e. discriminatory) experiences with 

biggest ones facing us." 
faculty and administration. The "paternalistic" attitude of the administration was criticized, along with the "white-upper­middle-class" viewpoint of some 


--Judy Fong 
is the acceptance· of minority (both arrangements, rather than with students.
international and black) students their social environment. 
Whether the problem of thewho need financial aid only in the 

Sophomore-9mmel1 Pool noted 
black student can be solved by aamount that can be provide four­

that "there aren't enough black 
simple enrollment increase isyear scholarships. This would 

students here, but the white 
doubtful. Although tangiblealleviate the academic pressure 

students treat you almost like 
strides have been made in the pastfelt by many who are worried sisters.'.' 

two years, a change in attitude is

about maintaning scholarship 
Other students are not quite so definitely indicated, as well as anstatus. Saint Mary's Dean of 
optimistic. orientation program.
Students Kathleen Mulaney favors the proposaL "People on this end of the hall The Administrative Side"It's really hard for students to don't talk to me.. .I hate the per­have to suffer cultural, social, and vading morality of this The .SMC administration has not economic shock, all at once, plus place ... sometimes it gets really been wholly unaware of the the the pressures of entering lonely ... you need someone to minority student's problems. A college, " she said. "This would whom you don't have to always black counselor has been hired this remove at least one source of explain yourself ... " year on a part time basis, and worry.'' several scholarship discrepancies An orientation program ex­The comments sampled reveal brought to Henry's attention were 
clusively for international students not so much bitterness, but the immediately remedied. As for is provided, but Di Dio called it isolation that in many instances recruitment, Henry stated that "very vague." Most students are the black student might feel on "we're definitely interested in a not given sufficient information campus. Although eight balck broader cross section of America before they come and the program freshmen have already been ac­and other countries;" in fact, SMC hopes will increase minority enroUment. The recent Haggar grant fer students needing financial aid will also be available to minority students who qualify. 
Henry realizes the high visiblilty factor can be remedied only by an increase in black enrollment, but he noted "most small _.;:~te colleges can't do much a~~Jtdtl tnis. because of the financial burdeh." 
The president believes Ute black student can offer SMC an urr· derstanding of the varied lifestyles of different segments of Amerie..o society." · 
Concerning the hiring of black faculty <there are presently no blacks in faculty or administrative positons at SMC), Henry said that the college "has tried several times" to procure black facutly members, but they usually opt for larger schools who can offer better salaries. Henry stressed that SMC is "an equal opportunity em­ployer" and said that all positions are nationally advertised, in­cluding publications geared to the black community. 
"We'll always hire the person most qualified--reverse discrimination is equally wrong," Henry concluded. 
Ttm~ m~y chang~. The wt)rt~! ·· 'I'he Ch~r:cb. But one thing never cha~ge~. Out need for each other,····· 
··"f"he $ide, the poor, the despond­entate with us still but the Do. minican Sisters of the Sick. Poor tt}r tQ help ·••••, in their. own way ·... 
. · whh theirowri • .gifts. 

··•····rt~~i[tJ=~~=:·~:~~r~::.·•···
~d ()IIi without regard torace or 

·· religic)Jl~To care for the children Idt addft when iUness comes.To · k~p families together; To bring comfort to the sick. Peace to the ~ed. And to bring Chrl$t's love to aU, 
It Jsn't easy to be a Dominican Sister of the Sick Poor but the rewards are far greater than a patient's smile. For now, this is reward enough. 
If you feel the need of a change, 

..
and you can accept a challenge, why not find out more about the wori< we do? 
The Dominican Sisters of theSick Poor offer a unique oppurtunity to work in the field before assum. ing any obligations. For informa­tion about the Associate Program write to: Sister Marguerite Mitchell, Vocation Director Room 107 MariandaJe, Ossining, New York 10562 

DOMINICAN SDIERS OF 1HE SICK POOR. I 
air every Sunday at 4:00 pm on  doesn't help much. All it does is  cepted for next year, at least two of  is applying for a federal grant  
WSND ( FM l, conducted by a third  tell you how to find your way  the seven presently enrolled are  reserved for minority students  
year Law Student, Tom Misener.  around campus."  considering transferring.  entering nursing which Henry  

Student Affairs Office concerned with minorities! problems on campus 

-... ---10 the observer 
Tuesday, March 27, ·1973 
by David Rust Senior Reporter 
Notre Dame's Student Affairs Office is both directly and in­directly concerned with the problems of minorities on campus, and both past and present ad­ministrators in that office describe the last three years as being a relatively quiet and productive time in the office's relations with minority students. 
MECHA 
Today, Student Affairs is most involved witb institutions such as thP Mexican-American organization, \ Mf<XHA, and the 1\lack Cultural Arts Center; working out social programs; lwadquarters space and common purposes. Orientation for blacks and other minorities is also 
arranged  by Student  Affairs  in  
l'oordination  with  minority  
students.  

Frequently Consulted 
!<'or what areas is Student Af­fairs directly responsible? 
"For a number of areas," said llniversity Vice Presidentof Ad­ministration and Director of Student Services Fr. James Shilts. "With Respect to minorities, we help provide social services. And· although we are not directly related to decisions on admissions and financial aid," continued Fr. Shilts. "we are frequently con­sulted." 
Granville Cleveland 
Granville Cleveland heads a Black Student Affairs Committee within the administration and many 
times acts as the Student' Affairs contact with the black com­munity. 
··we feel we are pretty close to the black students because of Mr. Cleveland:" said Fr. Shilts. "Even though he is not officially part of our Student Affairs staff, he does work closely with us and comes to most of our staff meetings." 
The central Student Affairs "staff" consists · of Fr. Shilts, Acting Vice President of Student Affairs Philip Faccenda, Director of Student Housing Fr. James Hiehle, Director tY. Activities Hobert Ackerman and Campus I\I inistry Director Fr. William Toohey. 

Fr. James Shilts 

.. 
Fr. James Riehle 

'Whenever there if, any kind of student function, one or all of us are usually involved in it," said Fr. Shilts. The students "work their heads off" while the Student Af­fairs office arranges for per­mission to use certain areas and facilities. 
An example of this occurred last month, when black students in­vited coeds from five or six schools 
and  scheduled  a  party  for  the  
Saturday night they arrived.  
"We  cleared  them  using  the  

Fiesta Lounge for refreshments while they did the legwork," said l<'r. Shilts. "They wanted to provide meals for the girls. That meant meal tickets, and we got them stacks of those. The girls that came stayed over at Lewis Hall --we helped them get mat­tresses and bedclothes. 
Parent Role 

"We have a kind of parent role," he explained. 
"Now we sometimes have requests come up like those made to the Student Life Council last f<'ebruary," he continued. "Something like that the Black House Student Affairs would be very closely associated with." 
At this time, said Fr. Shilts, "Dr. Ackerman is checking with other universities reported to have black houses." 
SLC Proposals 
Since the unveiling of the black proposals the SLC has been "seriously and separately " studying them, reported Fr. Shilts, one of the SLC's most active members. In truth, the SLC and Student Affairs are closely related bodies and Fr. Shilts is one willing link between the two. 
"The reason we held the hearing was that we felt that several things had happened around campus which led us to believe that black students were unhappy enough to be heard," explained Shilts. "Most notable was the armed robbery in Alumni, and the repercussions from our black students who've been stopped repeatedly by Security and asked to show their ID cards 
Security Crackdown 
'The whole security thing is really beginning to hurt our blacks. • he said. •Any crackdown means black students are bound to get stopped, simply because they are black. Carl Ellison (Grace Tower R.A., two years in student government> has been asked for his ID four times. I know him as Carl t<:llison. but the officers know him only as black, and this con­stitutes a great sensitivity problem.' 
University Archivist Fr. Thomas Hlantz. who served a two-year stint as VPSA from July of 1970 to June of 1972, shared his ideas on the relatio11 of his former office to the minorities on campus. 
Particular Needs 
"The University includes about eighty-five hundred students and I suppose it is possible to speak of them in various groups: Blacks, Chicanos, Indians, Orinetals, and so on. Each student or each group has particular needs perhaps, and also particular contributions which he or she or they can make to the llniversitycommunit}' I think the llniversity thus adapts itself at 
..Each student or each group has particular needs perhaps, and also 
particular contributions which he or she or they can make to the University community. I think the University thus adapts itself at times 
to the needs of these particular 
students or particular groups." 
Fr. Thomas Blantz 
times to the needs of these par­ticular students or particular groups. 
"For example, if one residence hall has no television lounge, the Administration might allot a certain sum of money to build such a room without necessarily alloting the same amount to the other halls which may not have the same needs, Similarly, I think the University can make provision for the special needs or concerns of the various minority groups. Very often the initiative for this must come from the minority groups themselves simply because they are the ones who know the needs best and they are the ones who can offer more specific suggestions about what the rest of the Univer­sity might do. Some requests may not be possible of fulfillment, at least at that particular time, but this is understandable." 
Fr. Blantz did not think that this posture underwent any significant change during his tenure. 
"The individual needs and con­cerns of different groups could vary year by year as progress was made· or as the number of students changed and so on, and thus the implementation of the 
lniversitv's oolicv could vary with 
SUMMER IN WISCONSIN 
One of America's outstanding private boys camps located in northern Wisconsin announces a limited number of openings on the staff tor the 1973 season. Dates ,1re June 28-August 16. Com­pensation includes salary, round trip transportation, living quarters. board, and laundry. This is an unusually attractive summer job. Consequently, only men ot the highest character and integrity will be considered. For complete information, write D.C. Broadbridge. 2863 Shannon Court, Northbrook, Ill. 60062. 


Nominations for GSU 
President , Vice President and Secretary-Treasurer are now being accepted 
All interested Grads see Barry Wessels 1028 
N.S.H. for more information. Nominations close March 30th 
these developments , but I cannot 
think of any real changes in 
posture." 

His Student Affairs staff, which 
both years included Fr. Shilts as 
assistant to the Vice President, 
worked closely with the Student 
Government.and Student Senate, discussing such issues as allocations of funds for groups ~uch as the Native Americans and 
MECHA. 

It was also he who administered 
the creation of the Black Cultural 
Arts Center, although according to 
Fr. Blantz, "decisions on what to 
purchase were made by Prof. 
Joseph Scott Black Studies 
Director at that time and the 
students." 

He continued that "Many of 
Ihese organizations probably 
worked more closely with Student 
Government than with the Vice 
President's office, and I believe 
they were generally quite satisfied 
with Student Government." 
AT NOTRE 
DAME 
Settle 






down 
to the 


natural 
one. Busch: 


APARTMENTS AVAILABLE· FOR SEPT 73 
Come see the Notre Dame Ave. Apartments. You are looking for modern living, we have the answer: 
CLOSE TO CAMPUS 
2 LARGE BEDROOMS: ROOM FOR 4, 5 or 6 STUDENTS 
LARGE KITCHEN, DINING ROOM, AND PLENTY OF STORAGE SPACE 
FULLY CARPETED LIVING ROOM WITH A PRIVATE PATIO OR BALCONY PLUS AIR CONDITIONING 
These Apartments are fully furnished and are coeducationaI. 
CALL 234-6647 OFFICE 919 SOUTH BEND AVE., SOUTH BEND 
Tuesday, March 27, 1973 the observer 1 1 • 
ND audience. b.eld spellbound by hypnotist 
by Michael Welby Staff Reporter 

Dr. Irwin Ross is a hypnotist, a psychologist. and a performer all· rolled into one. His show last night kept the. engineering auditorium . audience -laughing. from start to finish and probably for a long while thereafter. . · 
Hoss has· been touring the country for 19 years now, doing his show for .television.· clubs, and schools·.· At the start of the show he asked (or volunteers from the audience: After being mobbed by interestec\'!)arties, Ross proceeded to hypnotize anyone close enough to see ·him· and hear him. 
With the lights low and the the girls appear ugly. He then tried audience quiet, the volunteers to play Cupid. For once the girls went into that deep sleep Ross were interested and the guys had induces by a method called ."ex-. their chance to shut them down. tended concentration." Needless to say, the audience was 
The "performers to be" were in·· in hysterics. · a trance and the real show began. . Ross very wisely allowed for Ross had them laughing, crying,· . · equal time and the · roles. were 
and falling off their chairs wat-. ching an imaginary movie. He had them smell bad odors and sexy odors from the people around them: · · · 
The volunteers were ·arranged boy. girl. boy, girl and Ross went to bat for the men of Notre Dame. He made all the boys appear sexy and handsome to the girls next to them and at the same time he made all switched. With the sudden.change in the appearance of the girls, the male volunteers were drooling for 
··a match. This time though; it was the girls turn to play shut 'down. · The show went on though. Ross ·had the participants fail front­wards and backwards, co.nvinced them that he had stolen their navels, had them retrieve their navels from . a description, and 
then ended the show with one surprise. 
Before they went back to their seats, Ross assigned each person a number and then a color. When they heard the name of the color mentioned by Ross later on, they stood up and shouted phrases Ross had given them with-the color and finally one group of volunteers stood up and sang part of the Notre Dame fight song. 
Amazingly enough when the performance had ended, the participants themselves had little or no recall·of what they had just done. Everyone just walked laughingly out of the engineering auditorium and into the night. 

Law student· to appear on NBC's 'Jeopardy' 
On April· 5. and April 6, a first · awaiting a call. They called, the.. 
vear law student. Dennis Owens, third day but too late; he hadwill be making his appearance on already returned to Kansas City the NBC quiz show "Jeopardy." where his parents and his wife's He will win $1,390 in cash and an parents live. He wrote and asked if encyclopedia set. The show was he might return the week of Mid-. filmed ·on the 14th of March: Semester break. This was allowed 
Last-December Owens wrote to· in an exceptional arrangement.· Merv Griffin Production as Owens. 28, drove to New York suggested. by an announcement at · with his wife, Cathy, their son, one 'the end of a-show. An appointment . a half years old and their daughter, was made for him to take a test in· . only four months. His family was January during the last week of in the audience during the show. semester break. The test is given Jeopardy is filmed in the NBC in New York City. When Owens studios· in Rockefeller Center. took it. 45 persons were tested and Tickets .are free;· there is an three passed. Passing score .is 30 or audience of 300. · 
more correct of .40 questions. . The upcoming . shows feature·. Art Fleming, the show's host, Typical questions: "Who won the "All Men Week." All the con-asked him why he chose Notre Academy Award for best sup-testants for the week had 38 on Dame Law School on the first film porting actress in 1972?", "What · their tests. The questions were segment. On· the second show 
CLASSIFIED ADS eountry shares a. 150 mile border appropriately difficult. "We were Fleming asked if he had told with Norway?", ''Who invented given no hint as to categories, . anyone at Notre Dame he was 
the safety ·razor?" <Cloris Leach-questions, or answers, only if there going to be on the show. He an­
FOR SALE

man . .U.S.S.R. and Gillette.) was. to be a new category," said swered, "Yes, I told Professor Owens. who had traveled to New Owens. Murphy <of the Law School). 
1971 350 Honda SL 5600 miles 

York at his own expense, was told Owens won $830 on the first show Before I left, two professors had 
custom paint. Jack 8550. 

to stay in town for two days and was champion, thereby promised to let out their 11 o'clock 
$600 stereo for sale, receiver, turntable, speakers 9 months old, $400 or best offer. Call 1188.



San. Francisco Mayor Alioto to 
'63 Dodge Dart, good condition, runs well..call 234-7792. 
-For Sale · Acoustic 134 amp. Casino concert P.A. system -best

lecture at CCE tonight.at 8 p:m 
oIter, after 7 234-4547. 

· · Education and the Redevelopment . agency. Halting the bulldozer 
For Sale: 1970 Dodge Super Bee

Mayor Joseph Alioto· of San-· Agency. . approach to urban renewal,:Alioto 
383 Exit. cond. Must sell $1500 or

Franci~co .will speak on the topic Appointed . to the Board of protected small property. owners 
best offer. Call Steve at 2187. 

"Urban Problems"· at 8:00 p.m.· Education in 1948, Alioto helped from confiscation of their homes this evening. in the Center· for . establish· new patterns· in .and businesses and provided 
For Sale: Wurlitzer Spinet Piano French Provincial-cherry wood.

Continuing Education as part of· education. and won pay raises for ·impetus to hundreds of'millions of 
Call 272-3233.

the State: of' .Life In America lee-. teachers.:· Also, in a rriajor court· dollars of new residentiai· and lure series presented by the Notre decision on . civil_ liberties, he commercial construction. · 
Deluxe Portable Ziz-Zag sewing 
machine. 1973 model. Automatically darns and makes 

Dame Law School. · · · overturned -a law prohibiting In 1967, Alioto made his first bid 
A member of the Law School· teachers from participating in the for elective office and becarrie the 
Advisory. Council. Alioto has distinguished himself in such areas as law.-agriculture, international trade· and banking, as well as in urban government. 
His .law firm is the largest trust­busting_ firm . in the nation, representing many of the cities, states and independent businesses. 
In a three year period from 1964 to 1967. Alioto's firm won more than $64 million in_ damages for its clients .. · · 
In !959.· Alioto became general manager and president of the Rice Grower-s· .Association and ex­panded its annual sales from $25 to $70 million. As head of the world's largest rice. milling organization, he re'{olutionized production methotis arid transportationtechniq'ues. ·· · 
The sa·n Francisco mayor worked· with the United States Senate and with federal agencies in developing the Food for Peace program. 1-le was also appointed by the Department of Agriculture to survey farm production and marketing throughout Latin America. 
Alioto also served as a con­sultant on hydro-electric development and agricultural expansion in the Mekong Delta in South Vietnam and is a one dollar a vear business advisor to Puerto i{ico and Hawaii. Just prior to his inauguration as Mayor, he negotiated the international sale of $48 million of of rice to the Hepublic of Korea; the largest such sale in history. 
Mayor Alioto's government experience spans a variety of big city problems. He spent five years with the Department of Justice and ten vears with two vital San Francisco agencies: the Board of 
but ton hoi es. All accessories

·.election of school board members:. thiry-third mayor of. San .Fran­
incI uded. Excellent condition. 

In 1955, ·he moved to another cisco. The incumbent's attempt 
Sacrifice $100. _?34-2547. 

important aspect of community for reelection in 1972 resulted in an 
'69 Honda mo-ped (motorbike).

affairs, the city's Redevelopment easy victory. 
Immaculate, under 5,000 miles. Call 287-9984 + make an offer.

Soph• -Parents' Weekend 
For Sale · 1972 power-bill Citation Golf Clubs. Call 8820. 

at SMC to be . Aprils.·. .... a 
"2 beach boys tix, S-track tape 
player, refrigerator, F" GE reel

by Mary Egan 
lo reel.", 1578.

Staff Reporter . held from 1 to 3p.~:saturday, Dr. 
WilliamHickey, Vice President of 
t have 2 extra Beach Boys tix.

St. Mary's sophomore class will Academic· Affairs, and . Jason 
Row 2, Sec. C. Best offer. Call 
Brian 1728.

sponsor its traditional Sophomore Lindower. Vice President of 
Parents' Weekend April 6 to 8. Fiscal Affairs, will meet·with the 
FOR RENT

The weekend enables parents to sophomores and their pai-ent.s in meet other parents and ·"to see ·Carroll Hall. . . · 
Want privacy? Rooms $40.00. 
233-1329.

how the college operates and get to Afterwards, parentsmay' «go to 
know the Administration and various classrooms in Madeleva to 
NOTICES

faculty. They probably wouldn't meet with members-of the dif­get a chance to otherwise," ex-· ferentdepartments and learn what 
Nominations for GSU President. Vice-President and Secretary . Treasurer are now being ac· 

plained Margaret Ferguson, -the departments· are· doing . and 
sophomore class vice-president.·. what directions they may take in 
cepted. All interested Grads see

"We'd really like our parents to come to the college to see how it's run and where it's going," she added. 
Twelve chairmen of the sophomore class have planned the weekend. 
Registration chairmen · Liz Crowley and Carol Nocero will register attending parents Friday afternoon from noon to 6 p.m. in Holy Cross Hall, stated Ferguson. Parents must arrange their own
accomodations. Parents may attend the open bar cocktail party held Friday night from 8:30p.m. to 11:30 p.m. in the grand ballroom of South Bend's Albert Pick Hotel. A live band will entertain. Parents arnvmg Saturday morning may register from 10 a.m. to noon in Holy Cross Hall. At the Academic Open House, 
. i. 

suit off and put on that sweater week." Owens was a marine. He . after I dressed. She said that she lost the match, but hit a "secret brought it just for that," he said. 
the future," said Ferguson. · 
Barry Wessels 102B N.S.H. for 
more information. Nominations close March 30th. 

Parents may meet and talk with the administrators and faculty at the "wine and cheese!' ad-
FOR INFORMATION ABOUT

ministrative reception in Stapleton 
GAY AWARENESS COM­
MUNITY, CALL 7789, W-Th-F 8-10 pm. 

Lounge. LeMans Hall, from 5 p.m. 
to 6:45 p.m. · College President Dr. Edw~rd Henry will welcome the 
WANTED 

sophomores and their parents in a 
Ride needed to Detroit Friday

speech at the banquet, which 
March 30. Call Mike, 1534.

begins at 6:45 p.m. in the dining hall. 
Two lriendly fellas desperately 

~~::::::-;.:;:;::::-;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::-;::::-;:::~::~:::::-;:~:: 
need dates to Beach Boys Con· cert. No reasonable offer refused.

ISSUE STAFF 
(A.C. or D.C.). Call Bob or Tom 3527.

Night Editor: Kathy Schwille Ass'!. Night Editor: Robert Baker 
Roommate Wllmt:u: for off­Layout: K,1th'y, Robert campus. Must have a good head.

Sports Night Editor: Vic Dorr 
Call Bernie .1246. 

Copy Editor Mike O'Hare Pictures Ali STAIR Ricardo 
PERSONALS 

Day Editor·: -Jim "Scoop" Gresser Typists· B,lrb Norcross, Howard 
H<~PPY Birthday Amy. You're H.>li<', SIC'VC' Roper 
still as cute as a bug's ear. Night Controller: John Flannigan. 
. ··-.: ..•' . :' .... :•. .. ·.. ~ 

"extended con­to hypnotize 
square" first. The answer won for him $6.935.07 in prizes. It included furniture, trip to Mexico, a full length mink coat, stereo com­ponents, a sound-on-film movie camera and projector, two motor~ycles, cookware, a bar and a refngerator-freezer. 
"I wanted to go on 'Jeopardy' because it is tough, a real test. Winning there proves something. I wasn't concerned with how much money I might win, but rather competing and winning at least one day. I wanted to be champion. It was an ego challenge. And, boy, was it fun!," said Owens. 
qualifying -to return. Three shows are lilmed per day. Thus, teq minutes after Thursday's show was ended, Friday's was being filmed. Owens was in the lead until the "Final Jeopardy" question. His $560 was second best and he was eliminated. All. contestants are given an encyclopedia and a home version of "Jeopardy." 
There is a pause during the show for interviews. Dennis wore a Notre Dame sweater. "My wife insisted. In fact, she had me take a classes ten minutes early. So the whole first year class may be· watching." Fleming said that he was "glad to add 120 viewers to the ,audience." Jeopardy has a rated audience of 10 million daily. 
In 1971, he appeared on ''Hollywood Squares," a game show which proceeds "Jeopardy" daily on NBC. "I got on right away, instead of waiting a year or so, because a soldier broke his leg and I was there in the studio. They want a man in uniform every 
LOST AND FOUND 

Xavier University ring lost Initials: PF B, call 4942. 
HELP WANTED 

JOBS IN ACTION Peace Corps and VISTA recruiters will be at Notre Dame and St. Mary's March 26-30 seeking volunteers for projects starting this summer and fall. They want to talk with seniors and grad students will) degrees or backgrounds ir> i liberal arts, engineering, I business·, ar chitecture and law. The recruiters will be in the }Library concourse every day and in various placement offices during the week. See the ACTION people now for a job with a future. 
BUSINESS GRADS Want to be a business leader, setting up co-ops and making things work the right way? Peace Corps and VISTA can give you that opportunity. These ACTION agencies have projects starting this summer and fall in 57 countries and 49 states. See recruiters at Notre Dame in the Iibrary March 26-30 or in the Business School March 26-27. 
ARCHITECTS Try some new designs with Peace Corps and VISTA, the ACTION agencies. Community DESIGN Centers across the country need your skill. As an ACTION volunteer for a year or' two, you'll work in creative projects. See recruiters at Notre Dame in the tibrary March 26-30 or in the Architects School March 2d. 
CIVIL ENGINEERS In the Peace Corps working in any of 57 different countries you'll use all of the skills you've developed through years of education; all in a couple of years. As an ACTION volunteer you'll help build another countr·{. See the recruiters at Notre Dame in the library March 26-30 or in the Engineering School Mal"'ch 26. Try a challenge after graduation. 
LIBERAL ARTS GRADS Don't feet left out. Peace Corp~ and VISTA, the two ACTION agencies, need you too. We hav~ projects in 57 countries and 4') states, all using volunteers wit~ qeneral education backgrounds as teachers, coordinators, etc. See recruiters at Notre Dame and St., MARY'S March 26-30 in the library concourse and at LeMan!' Hall. 
ST. MARY'S GRADS 

Peace Corps and VISTA 
recruiters will be at Notre Dame 
March 26-30 in the Library and at 
St. Mary's March 27 in LeMans 
Hall. We want to talk to education 
majors, sctence majors. pre-law 
majors and liberal arts majors 
about volunteer opportunities in 
57 countries and 49 states. Try 
ACT ION for a challenge after . qraduation. 
.. 
.. 
Tuesday, March 27, 1973
the observer 








Netters find road rough; lose three 
tlwrn last year <6-31. but again. a singiPs and doubles man Chris by John Fineran lot will depend on the weather Kane to bounce back from his wlwre WP play. Marquette should disappointing showing down South. Tlw Notn· Dame tennis squad. he tough fo_r the same reason." Kilnc lost several close matches at 
whieh lost only three times all last Fallon also Pxpects number-one l\1Pmphis Slate and LSU. 
'-'Pason. will take an IJ-3 mark to \Viseonsin this wt•ekend in search of its first vietory. The Irish of 
ND ruggers defeat 
<'oaeh Tom Fallon will meet tradii ional rivals Wisconsin Saturday and Marquette Sunday 

visiting Marquette
and Fallon rPalizes the task will not hi' Pasy. Notre Dame rugby team points of the day in Notre Dame's 
To compound the matter, Notre ct•lehrated its home-opener last 27-li win. IJa IllI' will be without freshman Saturday with three lopsided spnsalion l{ich SlagPr. and the victories over the Marquette ThP "B'; team played very well ('olumbus. Ohio native will remain Warriors. in iis first game of the season, 111 Soul h B1•nd •for the opening of In the "A" contest the Irish shutting (Jut Marquette's "B" side, 
-.;pring football practice. 21i-o. Torn Hastings scored two trys
spotted the Warriors a 6-0 lead but 
for the 'Irish. Jim Kovac. Bill
"\\'t• ePrtamly will miss Rich." the Warriors never came close the 
SwPeney, and Hick Cusik also
Fallon said. "He will he with the rPst of the afternoon. Notre Dame 
added 'scores. John Mcintyre
football team. hut we will use him narrowed the margin to 6-4 when
• d1ippt'd in six points on three
wlwn lw is available " .John Greving scored a try after 
coiwt'rsions. The Irish serum kept
fine passes from Pete Frantz andLack of outdoor practice and 
llw . pressure on Marquette all
Don Greiwe. Dan Lee scored a tryunfamiliar courts proved to be a 
<iftPt'noon and the Warriors could
shortlv thereafter and Ed
hindrance to the Irish as they 
ti·P.vt'r. get rolling.

O'Connell converted to give thesull!'rPd losses to Memphis State Irish a 10-6 half-time lead.
l(i-:!l. TulanP <!1-IJ and LSU (7-2l. · The .Notre Dame "C's" com­:'\!ot n' I>anw came back to take a The game remained close for a pil'.led the day's sweep with a 28:-0 fourth in thl' strong. 13-team Big fl'w rnomPnts in the second half . vi·ctory over Marquette's "C" side. (;old 'l'pnnis Tournament in until O'Connell hit a penalty kick to · · Sl'an McDonald let the rout by l\1 ississippi. Mark and Paul Reilly givP the ruggers a 13-6 lead, and .scoring three trys, and Bill won the number-three deoubles then the Irish ran away with the Arimony, Terry Smith, and Craig tit IP whilt• eaptain Rob ScheCter match. A try by Dave Simpson put Simon also tallied. Bill Seetch 



OBSERVER
eapturl'd the number-six singles. thP ruggers ahead 17-6, and then chipped in four points on two CompPtition in the tourney was ,Jpff Warnimont raced over 60 conversions. . liy flight. yards for a score and O'Connell ·"Wiseonsin should be a close converted to up the Irish lead to 23­
This Wt'ekend the ruggers travel 
SPORTS
mateh." Fallon wl'nt on. "We beat !i. PPte Frantz' try added the final 
to Columbus to take on Ohio State, and will return to ND for an April
Vic Dorr.:========================================;===;===;=============================================;=;================================== 
·night game aginst the Washington. 
S.C. All-Stars. 



The Irish Eye 

· ·.The scene has happened before: a Notre Dame team returning from the . ·coast after losing a championship in the last game of its season. 
· · ... Two and one-half years ago it was the Fighting Irish football team, a ·tpam that lost a perfect season and a National Championship in a rainy, ri1irddy game with Southern California. Yesterday it was the Notre Dame haskPtball tPam. a squad that suffered a bitter defeat of its own-a 92-91 .· los!; to Virginia TPch in the final game of the 1973 National Invitational 
·. Toumanwnl. · 
But tlw Irish cagers. like the '70-'71 football team, returned to South . · BPrHI in anything hut losing style. They returned to campus by bus, with a polie!' !'scort. and they returned to an enthusiastic crowd of some 1,500 
·. :st udPnts-a larger group than had greeted the team last Wednesday, 
:· diu·ing its initial homecoming. 
<'oaeh I>iggPr Phl'lps and his charges were very much alive in the ·i.otu·np~· wlwn they returned last week for their annual basketball· .-ha.IHill<'l. hut the mid-week date and the prospect of facing North Carolina :in.thl• sl'rni-finals combined to lessen the student turnout. Such, however, 
\i\ts not tlw case yesterday. : Thl' Irish. whose season was ended Sunday by Bobby Stevens' overtime -i.lu;izPr-lnt!'kPt. wPre swarml'd as they climbed out of their bus, and · 
·I 'lu•lps I'Psponded to I he reception by having his game captains, John· ~lltmwtl' and ·'Goose" Novak. address the crowd. 
Tlw !'OillllH'nts of the two players were brief and pointed, and dealt ·litq..(PI_,. with tht' support given the team by the ND student body. "I was ·j>roud to IH' a part of this Notre Dame basketball team," said tourney. . \1\'1' .John Shumate. "We were really well supported." Novak. the only 
llllli(Jr in :'\D's starling lineup. echoed "Shue's" sentiments. "The team 'til\l'd togPtht'r and eame on strong." he said. referring to the early·· · ,t•ason n•<·ord of I-Ii. "and the fans never let us down. We beat some good 
• 1P<IIJ1-;. and it ·s just too had that we had to Jose that last game." 
< 'oach DiggPr l'lwlps, who led the squad to an 18-12 record. let his own · ··untllll'llts run in a similar vein. "We were stunned after that shot." he :,dmitted. "and a lot of us were shocked. It was just something that was 
-liard for ll!' to accept .. But still." he continued. "you never quit on us;-· ,.,.,.,, \\·lwn we'' Prt' <i-20 last year. and 1-6 at the beginning of this year. "BIIt \l't• cam<' on. we got our tournament bid. and then we upset ~outlwrn <·a!. we upset Louisville. and we upset North Carolina-and ·,hit t··s soml't hing a lot of pt'ople thought could never happen." 
· :.You\·p got 12 nwn here who didn't Jet you down," he finished. "Next \ 1•ar·s a IH'\1' ~·ear. and we'll be back. It's like I told you last week-'we've · "Ill~ ,iust hl'gun. · ..
.. 
Hut t lw Irish coach. who came within a split-second of adding a dream tinish to a ('inderella season. may have been off the mark when he spoke ol his tl'am·s having to come back. For the Irish cagers. who will lose onl~ on!' rl'gular. Don Silinski. to graduation this spring, did most of their niming hack during the past three months. 
Till·~· t·am!' back. of course. from a 1-6 season-opening record and went· "~~'to·\\ in Sl'\'l'niPPn of their next 2:1 games. They came back after trailing. 111·11.' in an l'arl~-game to DPPaul. and went on lo win. 72-67. They came .ha1·k to Parn an :'\IT hid aftt'r seemingly disastrous losses to Fordham :111d..l Jukl'. ;tnd tlwv camP from behind to win in each of their first three tntii'IH'~· \·ictoriPs in !\Iadison Square Garden. 
· .\nd 1'\'l'll in thl' title game against the Gobblers. the ND cagers had to· ·. rlt<tk!•" t·oml'back They twice trailed VPI hy 10 points during the first· ll.:ilt·. and ll'lt the floor at intermission down by four. 44-40. The Irish qtrwkl~· rubbPd out thai spread during the Parly momt'nts oflhe second.· ·liHl_l.:and didn't trail again until Sll'vens cannl'd his game-winner. . 
._ilut. as :'\IT I ina lists. :'\D's voulhful basketball team doesn't have much· ro. (oint· back from lnstt•ad.' they have a good base from which to work 

White SoxOpeningDayTrip 
Sox vs. Oakland A ·s Tuesday, April l0 
$ J 0 price includes: Buses leave Circle 9:30 Sus ride Ticket to Game Uncle Tom Chalmbers to Free Seer on Bus throw out first ball 
For information and reservations call or see: Leo Breen 3651 418 Morrissey Mickey ~inns 3648 415 Morrissey 
SEATS GOING FAST··ACT NOW 


Will the high performance cassette replace records 

Attend our Advent Cassette 
( Seminar }oo Tuesday, March 27 at r~~PM 
.----------and__________ _ 

RMS Audio Phone: 
321 South Main 
288-1681 
Open : Mon. -Thurs. 12-8 Fri. and Sun. 12-5 
c!unilg tiH· "i:!-'i-l st•ason. A tl<!SC which may~as Gary Novak suggested, . 
Closed Saturday
il'<id "to t hl' :'\C',\,\ tournaim;nt." · 
.. .· .. 






