On The Inside 
Sen. Proxmire aHacked ...page 2 
Keg rollers win ...page 3 




serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Tuesday, October 2, 1973

Vol XII, No. 20 

Philosophy of rules topic of SLC meeting 
Etienne objects to Faccenda draft 

by George Velcich 
and Fred Graver 
Staff Reporters 
The Student Life Council discussed. rules regarding drugs, sexual relations and the implications of the rules philosophy during yesterday's meeting. 
Student Body President Dennis Etienne questioned the wording in the opening paragraph in the Faccenda draft of the rules manual. The rules now say that certain ac­tions by a member of the Notre Dame com­munity could raise the question of "whether the offender wishes to remain a member of this voluntary society, and whether the community wants him or her to remain here." 
Etienne objected to the clause, saying that it disregarded the degree of consequence in the action and implies that anyone breaking these rules will be subject to review by the community. 
Dr. Phillip Faccenda,Vice-President Student Affairs, answered by saying that "this is the cornerstone to the entire policy of the University. Judgment on an action is based on a person's attitude rather than on the act itself." 
He continued by stating that the difference lies in "whether the person doesn't want to be here and simply made a mistake." 
The Council passed a motion to have the Drafting Committee re-word the passage, retaining its basic philosophy. 
The Council then turned to the passage in the rules on marijuana and other drugs. Last week, Dr. Faccenda stated that the Student Affairs office had made a distinction between hard drugs and marijuana. 
The rule presently states: "Although there is some uncertainty about the effects of marijuana, the University does not consider its use acceptable." Dennis Etienne objected on the grounds that he felt the University should not state this because of the ambiguity . . Dr. Faccenda: "We want to help you, whether you want the help or not." 


and vagueness of the University policy. He 
then stated that the rules would be very hard 
to enforce. , 
Dr. Faccenda answered by defining the 

University plans for enforcement, which 
center on "the providing of drugs, and the 
using of drugs." 
The Council then voted to keep the 

paragraph as it stands, maintaining three 
levels of drug use. The first states that all 
providers of any drugs, including marijuana, 
are committing a serious violation. The 
second pertains to using of hard drugs, such 
as hallucinogens and narcotics, which is also 
a serious violation. The third category states 
that the users of marijuana are not com­
mitting a serious violation. 
Dr. Faccenda stated the University plans 

on using "more reasonable means to stop this 
problem" <marijuana usage). 
He continued by saying that "the Univer­

sity says that they have the right to intrude on 
the privacy of the student. We want to help 
you, whether you want the help or not." 
Next, the Council discussed the section in 

the rules pertaining to sexual relations. The 
present version is a long statement of 
University philosophy on human sexuality, 
ending in what could be implied as a 
University rule on sexual conduct. 
After a long discussion, the paragraph was .changed to state, "the University believes 
that sexual union should occur only in 
marriage." 
A motion to delete the entire philosophy was defeated on the grounds that the relaxing of rules would be, in the iong run, detrimental because of peer group pressure to exercise "liberties." 
The SLC will meet again Wednesday at 4:30. 

Prices delay co-ex dining until Oct. 8 
by Denise Crowley Staff Reporter 

The co-exchange dining program for Notre Dame and St. Mary's will begin Oct. 8. The program has been held up this fall because of price differentials and unequal exchanges. 
St. Mary's will receive one hundred tickets for dinner at Notre Dame. These tickets will be distributed to each of the four halls at eight o'clock in the morning. Each hall will receive 25 tickets and they are available on a first-come first-serve basis from the girl at the main desk. Judy Mardoian, head of the co-ex program at St. Mary's, stressed that the girls must be respon­sible in allowing everyone a fair chance for a ticket. 
At Notre Dame, the tickets will be handled on a random rotation basis. There will be two or threehalls receiving the 100 tickets allotted for each night but the specific rotation hasn't been decided yet. The food Service Advisory Board, headed by Mariclare Molidor, is coordinating the exchange at N.D . 
The unequal amount of exchange from each school was one of the reasons for the delay in the exchange. More N.D. students were going to St. Mary's than girls going over to Notre Dame. This has been worked out to a balance of 100. Brother Kieran Ryan, Assistant Vice President of Business Affairs, said that this balance "worked out fairly well in the past. We want to keep .those same guidelines." 
Another reason for the delay was the problem in printing the tickets. St. Mary's tickets still have to be numbered and dated. With these two delays out of the way, the co-ex program will start next Monday. 
Washington Hall hosts Plimpton tonight at 8 
George Plimpton, best known for his do-anything antics, often before nationwide TV audiences and in best selling books, comes to campus tonight at 8p.m. in Washington Hall. 
Plimpton's greatest fame is probably as a result of his pro-football debut, the subject of his book, and later a movie, called Paper Lion. 
He has played tennis with Pancho Gonzales, bridge with Oswald Jacoby, and football with the Baltimore Colts. Plimpton boxed with light heavyweight champion Archie Moore, swung his baseball bat in the major leagues, and played with the New York Philharmonic. 
Currently Plimpton is the editor-in-chief of the Paris Review, an international literary magazine. He is past editor of the Harvard Lampoon. 
His appearance on campus is sponsored by the Student Union Academic Commission. Admission is free. 

}. the observer Tuesday, October 2, 1973 
warld 

briefs 
WASHINGTON UPI:The Pentagon Mond~y announced deadlines ranging from October '2:1 through December 11 for sending Christmas mail to Armed Forces personnel overseas. 
WASHINGTON UPI: President Nixon went 'out for dinner at a Chinese·-Polynesian restaurant Monday night and told a fan he met that he would dedicate a dam ·near Memphis later this month. 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. tJPI:The question of women priests was tackled by the 64th general convention of the Episcopal Church here Monday but the subject has yet to reach the convention floor of the House of Deputies. 
MOLINE, Ill. UPI: Production stopped at three of Deere & Company's seven factories Monday when the International Association of Machinists went on strike and some United Auto Workers members staged a wildcate walkout. 
LAKE PLACID,N.Y. UPI: State police armed with shotguns and hustling behind yapping dogs scoured hiking trails and summer camps in the rugged Adirondack Mountains Monday searching for one of two men wanted in the shooting of two policemen. 
HONOLULU UPI: Doctors at St. Francis Hospital said Monday that they were hopeful of a full recovery for James Fisher, 30, M{)ses Lake, Washington, one of two men who survived 72 days adrift in the Pacific after their boat capsized. 
WASHINGTON UPI: U.S. marshals were ordered Monday to guard _former ~nited Mine Workers president W.A. "Tony" Boyle m a Washmgton hospital where he is recovering from an apparent suicide attempt. 
an campus taday 
4:30pm -lecture, carbon monoxide-chronic effects on the heart" by dr. david penney, u. of illinois dept. of biology, galvin life aud. 
6:00 pm -news staff meeting, scholastic, scholastic office. 
6:30 pm -meeting, flying irish flying club, rm. 12 aerospace building. 
7:30pm-duplicate bridge, trophy tournament, flanne rdroom. 
7:30 
pm -lecture, 'looking into your financial futl e', panel discussion, richard rosenthal, st. joseph bank, carroll hall made leva. 

7:30 
pm -forum, 'mesbic: is it theoretically and practically ap­plicable to the black experience in the u.s.?' sponsored by new frontier scholastic society, black cultural arts center, Iafortune. 


8:00 pm -lecture, george plimpton, author, sponsored by student union academic commission, washington hall. 

at nd-smc: 
by Valeri Zurblis Starr Reporter 

It was the "most orderly it's. been ever," commented one Student Union official, on the selling of the homecoming package tickets Monday morning. 
In past years, cutting in line and fights breaking out were a com­mon occurance. Several years ago some students went so far as to go up to the top floor of La For­tune, throw rope ladders out the windows on the inside and climb in the Fiesta Lounge to get tickets. 
This year the sale was set up on a first come, first serve basis, that included a sign-up list. At 9:00 
a.m. each buyer signed a priority list that would ensure him a ticket 
By 11 :ooa.m. all220 tickets were accounted for with many people still in line. The person signing the list or a representative had to be in line from 1:00 on or forfeit his place and go to the end of the list. 
Mondale attacks Austria onJewishimmigrationban 
WASHINGTO, (UPI) -The Senate opened its foreign aid debate Monday by voting disapproval of the Austrian government's decision to close 
a  major  transit  camp  for  Jews  
leaving Russia.  
The  amendment  to  the  $1.2  

million foreign aid bill, intro­duced by Sen. Walter Mondale, D-Minn., calls on President Nixon to express to Austria its concern over the closing of a castle used by Jews in their way to Israel. The Austrian government took the action at the request of Arab terrorists who had seized Jewish hostages aboard a train from Russia. 
Mondale said he was dis­turbed that the United States had said nothing to Austria about the action so far, and added: "the closure of this facility is a very serious matter 
I cannot help being imoressed by what this action poses in modern terms to the situation of German Jews in the 19305." 
Mondale said Germany had sealed her borders to Jews who wanted to leave, the United States and other countries did nothing to help them, and the holocaust of Hitler's death camps resulted. 
"I believe that if we rema~ silent now, our silence will be regarded as an endorsement" of the Austrian policy, Mondale said. 
The amendment was criti­cized by Sen. J. William Fulbright, D-Ark., who said it amounted to unwarranted inter­ference in the internal affairs of "a small, friendly country". 
Mondale denied he was meddling and termed his proposal a "minimum state­ment." 
The legislators defeated two amendments offered by Sen. James Aboureszk, D-S.D., to bar the use of aid money in countries that hold political prisoners or to finance police operations in any country. 
They deleted from the bill entirely a plan to promote U.S. exports to poor countries through a cheap loan system. 

Proxmire beaten on way home, not seriously hurt 
WASHINGTON <UPI) -Sen. 
WillHim Proxmire, D-Wis., was 
attacked by two youths as he 
walked home from work 
Monday, District of Columbia 
police reported. 
Proxmire said he had been beaten with a large stick but he was not seriously injured. 
Police said two youths, one 14 and the other 15, had been 
Michigan State 

tickets scarce 
by Patrick Hanifin Staff Rporter 

Student interes'ted in tickets for the Michigan State game should be prepared for a tough battle and high prices. 
Desperate pleas for tickets are plastered on every bulletin board on campus and fill the want ads in 
The Observer. 
Calls to numbers posted on the boards and in the paper brought of~ers as lJigh as twf>nty five a:-~d ~Irty dollars for a pair of MSU tickets on the forty yard line. 
There was some range in offers. Some poor people could offer only ten dollars for such choice seats and are condemned to listening to the game on the radio. The average offer was twenty dollars, but prices should rise as the game approaches and tickets become scarcer. It looks like those 
who still hope to see the Irish m action will have to resignyourselves to empty pockets 


Hoznecoming package sales terzned 'most orderly ever' 
The homecoming this year consists of a dance at Stepan C.enter .after the pep rally Friday mght, tickets to the USC game the next day and to the Carpenters concert Saturday night. 
The Observer is publiShed daily during the college semnter except vacations by the stuaents ot the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S8 per semester ($14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 
arrested and charged with assult with intent to commit robbery and assault on a member of Congress -a new crime passed after Sen. John Stennis, D-Miss., was seriously wounded by an attacker. 
Proxmire said he was at­tacked about 7 p.m. EDT near his home in northwest Washing­ton. One of the youths had "a cap gun", he said, and the other had a "stick like a ball bat." 
"They said, 'give me your money,' and I said 'you must be kidding,'" Proxmire said. 
He said one of them started hitting him with the stick. He grabbed it and pulled the youth out into the street, so they could be seen by oncoming 



"ON CAMPUS" -BADIN HALL 
* Airline Reservations *Complete Domestic and Foreiqn Services *Representative for all Airlines *No Additional Cost 
"Specializing in Group Travel" 
FIRSTBANK& TRUST TRAVEL 
Phone : 283-7080 

·g 
snow 
SPECIAL ATTENTION: NOTRE DAME STUDENTS AND EM­PLOYEES RECEIVE $100.00 DISCOUNT ON ANY AUTOMOBILE. 


economy spec1al: 
$1295
AMC hornet sharp 

@
. 832 SOUTH BEND AVE. (ACROSS FROM 
LOU IS'S) 233-5145 
F WE DON'T HAVE IT, WE WILL GET IT. 

cars. "They saw the cars coming and started to run " he said. ' 
Proxmire said he called the police and drove around -the neighborhood in a patrol car and spotted the youths. 
"I had a funny reaction " he said. "I got mad. I was ' mad that the kids tried to hold me up. They weren't really that imposing." 
He was asked if he thought the youths knew he was a senator. 
"I doubt they knew who I was, they wouldn't know a senator," he said. 
Tyrone Marshall, charged in the Stennis shooting last Janua­ry, is currently on trial in U.S. district court. 
TRAVEL 




BUREAU 



Tuesday, October 2, 1973 the observer 
ND team victorious in keg rolling relay 
Music department expands 
I 

to meetneeds of the universiy 

Business College announces Professorship in Accountancy 
choir which will be performing vocal literature of the 16th and 17th centuries such as masses, motets and madrigals. 
In addition, noted Cerny, the concert series schedule has doubled. "We have scheduled almost a concert per week," said Corny. The concerts will be in two series; these featuring guest ar­tists and those performed by faculty members. "We hope" said Corny, "that we have been able to provide something for everyone." 
Erratum 

In a special supplement to The Observer. Friday, September 21, the Avon Theater was erroneously listed as the Avon Art Theater and reported as showing x-rated films. The owner of the Avon has in­formed The Observer that his theater shows first and second-run films. The Observer wishes to apologize to the owner and patrons nf the Avon Theater. ed. 
suffered from mix-ups in 
scheduling and routing. 
A Golden Keg. to be displayed in 
the Senior Bar, was the winning 
team, while free beer was provided 
to all the participants of tl)e con­
test. 
The contest, to be run at Notre Dame next year, featured Notre Dame teams: the Dirtballs, Captain John Smith; Insex, cap­tain Dick Singsank; The Holy Rollers, captain Tony Broccoli, the Phantom Females, and the win­ning, the Over-the-Hill-Gang, with runners; Jackson, Makowski, Breen, Milt Jones, Ed Carey, Chris Kurtsman, Barry O'Neil, Steve Stoltz, Mike Lins, and Bill Aramony. 
Organizational misun­derstandings had caused Phi Delta Theta of Purdue to run one man 3.6 miles along, before the arrival of the late ND teams. The eventual compromise of 35 miles was balanced by subtracting the miles when all runners had been misdirected and of O.T.H.G.'s best times and purdue's worse times. 
The mile compromise was reached after Purdue runners claimed that they had been under 
Graduates of the University of Notre Dame include eight partners and 55 members of the present professional staff of Peat, Mar­wich, Mitchell & Co., one of the world's largest firms in the field. 
Trustees of the firm, who met recently with academic and ad­ministrative officials of the University of Notre Dame, in­cluded the managing partners of the South Bend, Chicago and Los Angeles offices and New York Educational Institution Practices offices and the national personnel director for the firm. 
Ray M. Powell, professor and chairman of accountancy, will head the committee to conduct a nationwide search aimed at filling the professorship in 1974. 
;:-~:.. ~~;::: 
\~k!f{t~·" 

The J'\:D keg rollers, out to capture the Golden Keg for the Golden 
Dome. 
the impresssion that each man was Bend 2 hours late, after waiting in to run at least I mile. The ND vain for the 11 ND girls to show-up. teams said they had originally Despite all these set backs, ND's been told that the race was of one squad pulled out the win. big team, or % mile for each State police, at one point, runner, and not the 3.5 miles each directed the clattering kegs to the man was running. The O.T.H.G.'s wrong checkpoint through the strategy was also said to be based Purdue campus to the amusement on an expected 25 mile distance,. of students changing classes. "We been railroaded" summed up When timers finally located the Jeff Jackson. runners the last mile was 
The motley ND crew left South cancelled. 
SKI THE ALPS TINGES, FRANCE Arrangements by the Edgerton Travel Service IMPORTANT MEETING AND COLORFUL MOVIE PRESENTATION: WED., OCT. 3 7:30pm Rm I·C LaFortune Sponsored by the Notre Dame Ski Club· All Interested Notre Dame & St. Mary's students should attend the meeting. For further in­formation, call 6716.  
There's still time to Buy student insurance accident and health 12·1 mon.·fri. Lafortune rm. 2 283-6114  
w reservationsI 284-4176 ~ ND Student-Faculty ND"'SMC StaffSMC $1.50THEATRE SEASON 1973-74 Richard III Shakespeare's bold history Oct. 9, 10, 11, 12, l3 at 8:30pm O'Laughlin .Auditorium (St. Mary's)  

The first annual Keg Rolling contest between Notre Dame and Purdue University ended in a hard­fought-for victory for ND's over ­the Hill-Gang last Friday af­ternoon. The struggle consisted of runners pushing along mower 

.. The triumphant over-the-bill-gang keg rollers, celebrating another Notre Dame victory over Purdue. 
by William Murphy Starr Reporter 
An intensification of curricula, added musical groups and an expanded concert series highlight an attempt by the Notre Dame Music Department to service the musical needs of all the members of the university community. The Observer spoke with Dr. William Cerny, chairman of the music department, about what he termed "an encouraging expansion of musical interests" here on cam­pus. 
Music majors, according to Cerny, will undergo a new, in­tensified curriculum dealing with musical history, theory, per­formance-literature and two types of musical education. A new two­year program geared toward the graduate level has also been established in these five areas. 
"The department also has a new double-degree program", said corny, "which enables a student to 
The University of Notre Dame has announced that a Peat, Marwick Mitchell Professorship in Accountancy is being established in the College of Business Ad­ministration. Funded by the Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co. Foun­dation, New York, it is the first professorship in the department. 
The professorship is being created as the University com­minces its !31st year and as the College of Business Ad­ministration enters its second half century. 
The Department of Accountancy is the second largest un· dergraduate major in the University, with over 300 junior and senior majors currently on campus. Possessing a long en-earn both a Bachelor of Arts and a Music degree in five years. This permits the student to develop an academic background coupled with the music program Students who wish to teach music will find that this program will fulfill all their needs." 

Cerny also announced the creation of a new audio center for music graduate students to be opened at the Memorial Library in January. 
Cerny emphasized that the department wishes to serve the whole university. "There is an increased interest in music among the students," said Cerny. "This is shown by the increased enrollment in the introduction to music and piano courses." 
In order to meet the needs of the student body, the music depart­ment has created several new musical activities. Besides the Band and the Glee Club students may also partiripate in the University Chorus, the Chapel Choir and the University Or­chestra. There is also a polyphonic 
during public accountancy orientation, the department also offers programs in industrial accountancy an in management science-accountancy. Sub­disciplines include specialization in taxation, management control, governmental, international and management information syst~m accountancy. Last year, the department placed over 60 graduates with national public accounting firms and an equal numb_er in industry, government, teachmg and graduate or law schools nation wide. More than 80 percent of the faculty of the department are Certified Public Accountants, and two-thirds of the faculty hold the doctorate in their field.­
type contraption from Logansport 
to Lafayette, Indiana. 
The Over-the-Hill-Gang's spring­relay strategy, using cars to pick up and deposit runners at their positions, easily outstripped the experienced distance runners from Purdue. Both teams, however, 
j 

~----­
THE OBSERVER P.O. Box Q
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Art Ferranti Executive Editor 
Lee Gentine Business Manager 

Jerry Lutkus Editor-in-Chief  Dan Barrett  
Executive Editor  
NEWS:  283-1715  
EDITORIALS:  283-8661  John Kloos  
BUSINESS:  283-7471  Advertising Manager  

Tuesday, October 2, 1973 





A Bad Move 
There's one thing that the people who run an organization that serves a large number of people should always remember--people are very im­pressionable. 
They're not always fair-but they always remember. 
Monday was the day that Student Union announced as the day on which ticket sales for the Homecoming Weekend would go on sale. They announced that tickets for the concert would go on sale in the Fiesta Lounge beginning at 1 p.m. and a package deal containing two dance tickets and two tickets to the Southern Cal game would be made available starting at 7 p.m. 
By 1 p.m., or shortly thereafter, all of the package deal tickets were sold, and a waiting list of 50 people greeted those who had come to stand in line. 
And that's poor management. 

The decision to sell the tickets ahead of the announced time was apparently made because "500 people" had already joined the line by this morning to await the sale of the 240 package deals. 
Logically, it was then reasonable to sell the tickets since any students who joined the line later would only be turned away. 
But business men shouldn't base their decisions solely on logic. Because their customers don't base their impressions of that business solely on logic. 
And it's the customer we're supposedly worried about. The fact is that every student waiting in that line for football and dance tickets got 
in that line fully expecting to wait until 7 
p.m. 
for the tickets to be sold. Whether they arrived at 11 p.m. Sunday or 1 p.m. Monday, they expected to wait until 7 

p.m. 
for the tickets to be sold. So holding off on the sales would not have affected the people in line. 


And every person on this campus who read the article announcing those sales or saw a Student Union poster advertising those sales had atleast the right to get to LaFortune before 7p.m. and wait in line. It's those people who are most affected by the early sales. 
They weren't too happy to arrive at the lounge hours before the announced time of sales and be informed that everything was sold oul Don't be surprised if those people read an article on the 16th of Ocotber announcing the start of sales for an upcoming concert on November 1, and immediately form a line in the Fiesta Lounge expecting to be waited on as soon as these people did. 
That may not be too logical, but it's the logic of people who will never again trust the announcements Student Union makes concerning ticket sales. 
It is indeed unfortunate that Student Union, already suspected by many hopefully mistaken students of playing favorites with all ticket sales, was not more careful with the students' feelingsMonday. 
Remember, S.U., the customer is always right. Let's hope those who felt cheated today come back to be right. 
Butch Ward 


'WE HAD TO CAN YOUR DAILY SHOW, SAM-THE ONE THING THE PUBLIC ISN'T INTERESTED IN IS THE PUBLIC INTEREST!' 
daanesbury 

'=larry trudeau 
the observer 

Night Editor: Robert Baker 
Ass'!. Night Editor: Tim O'Reiley 
Layout: Kathy Schwille 
Sports: Greg Corgan, Peggy Lawlor 
Typists: Barb Norcross, Carole Rechtsteiner, Tom 
Modglin, Howard Halle, Chris Knecht 
Night Controller: JOhn Flannigan 
Compugraphic: Mike Goetz 
Day Editors: Tom Bundy and Marlene Zloza 
Dissatisfied Customer 
Dear Editor: 
What is the sense in setting up rules if they are not going to be enforced? I am referring to the 

·"rules" concerning the sale of the USC tickets. According to an article in The Observer of October 1 and according to directions posted on campus, "anyone in the Fiesta Lounge before the doors open O.p.m.) will be ejected." Why is it then that when I arrived at 1p.m. (being one of the many people who were stupid enough to follow the rules), not only were all the tickets spoken for, but also a back-up list of fifty names? I, like many other people, would ahave arrived well before 1 p.m. when tickets were still available, but I, like many other people be_lieved that the rules were made for a reason, namely to be adhered to. 
On behalf of all the rightfully irate students, I ask the Student Union for an explanation. 
Sincerely, Kathy Rimar 


Dirty Chess 
Dear Editor: 

This past weekend I participated in your annual "Observer" Chess Tournament. Admittedly, I am a player of limited skills, and therefore am not on the N.D. chess team, but nevertheless I expected to receive treatment equivalent to those of the team. The tournament director showed favoritism in his management of the tourney. Never before have I been engaged in such a haphazardly run tour­nament, i.e. no table numbers and no definite set of rules. The rules were changed seemingly to aid ceratain players and hinder others. The director TWICE in the course of the tourney changed the rule concerning the "grace period" allotted tardy players. This rule was so drastically altered the second time that I was defeated by an opponent who never arrived at the tournament site! 
'fhe lack of participation in the tournament, as compared to previous years, to me reflects the inefficiency of the tournament's management. I feel that a com­petent director would increase both the participation and the validity of future tournaments. 
Respectfully, Mark J. Caminite 


The Screechers 

Dear Editor: 
Here we sit at 1:42 a.m., being kept awake by a volley of various pre-historic screeches. And that's putting it mildly. It seems that somebody forgot to feed or change the diapers of the inhabiants of the Dillon Day (and apparently Night) Camp. 
Last night, it was funny at first. But then 2:30 a.m. rolled around and the children were still at it. Somehow, it's lost its novelty. Tonight it looks like they may break their record. 

I guess that when we walk into Emil T. 's chem quiz tomorrow and explain our predicament, he'll be more than happy to hear our tale, and tell us to forget the quiz and go get some sleep. 
But if Dillon hears about that, they'll probably scream during the day, too. We have but one com­ment for the Dillon pre-schoolers, and we think they'll understand what we're driving at. Goo-goo, ga­ga. 
Sleeplessly, 
John, Dave, Joe and Ed 
Alumni Hall 


Celebration of Work 
Editor: 

According to an article con­cerning the 1974-75 academic calendars which appears in today's Observer, the observance of the Roman Church's holy days during the coming academic year may necessitate the scheduling of Saturday classes. The logic of this proposal escapes me. If we take seriously Father Burtchaell's suggestion , that education is a moral as well as an intellectual adventure, and if, as such, it contributes to our fulfillment as Christian human beings, I don't see why education should be suspended on days when some of us choose to celebrate our brotherhood with the Lord. While I do not pretend to know much about the Roman Church's canons. I believe that the prohibition of "servile work" on these days was designed to alleviate the kind of drudgery which inhibits the celebration of our humanity in Jesus, not the kind of ennobling work which makes us men, and gives meaning to our celebration._ 
Even if we consider the academic life to be servile work, to defer classes to Saturday can only make our observance of holy days hollow: we will observe the letter of the law, at the expense of the spirit. 
Lest it be thought that I am being too idealistic about this, I have practical reasons for this mild protest. My (Catholic) Church has no "holy days of obligation," our feasts fall on different days, and since my kids go to public school they will not behome on the Roman holy days anyway. Rather than being obliged to celebrate somebody else's feasts by rattling around in an empty house and looking forward to an extra classroom day·, I'd rather 
' praise God with my work on the holy day' and with my family on the weekend. Sincerely, Bob Kerby 
IT's A 6~ANP CPPORTt/NITY/ 
I'M PLANNING TO PUSH MYSELF 7iJ THE OIITER f'M AlSO t.IM/15 Of MY £N(J(IRANCE, HOPIM; 7lJ 
.ANP 10 NE60T!ATc THe 

' GEr A L.ITTL.E MORAL. /UI/../JiiRNCS5 OP rt5HING IN MY RE/..ATION5H!P TO \ NATVIlE/ 
Tuesday, October 2, 1973 the observer 
~~· 

Full term 'unjust' 



Sirica reduces sentences of Waterbuggers 
would press ahead with motions 
WASHINGTON <UPI) -U.S. to change their original pleas of District Judge John J. Sirica guilty to innocent. said Monday he would reduce In other Watergate-relatedthe provisional maximum sent­developments: ences imposed on five members -Donald H. Segretti, 31, Los of the Watergate bugging team Angeles, former Treasury De­because forcing them to serve partment lawyer, was expectedthe full period "would not only to plead guilty to a four-eount be unwarranted but unjust." indictment for conspiracy and 
Their attorneys, however, disseminating illegal politicalindicated to reporters later they literature during the 1972 
Nevvsprint prices increased s15 a ton 
has a yearly newsprint output of Toronto UPI -Abitibi Paper Co. 
l,Oll,OOO tons. Some 800,000 tons is Ltd., one of Canada's major shipped to American newspapers,
newsprint producers, has informed mainly concentrated in eastern 
its customers of a $15 a ton increase states, and in the northwest, a 
in its newsprint price as of Jan. 1, company spokesman said. 
1974, a company spokesman said The spokesman declined to giveMonday. 
the reason for the increase, but 
The spokesman said a letter said "you could say it had informing the company's something to do with costs." customers -many of whom are Abitibi recently reached a set­newspapers located in the eastern tlement with the United Paper­and northwestern United States-of workers International Union the hike was sent out Monday. <UPIU) for a new two-year labor 
The increase raised the price of contract. The company employs, Abitibi newsprint in New York to 6,000 workers at its nine mills. $190 per ton from $175. The eastern The settlement called for 81h per Canadian price goes up from cent increase in each year of the $166.75 to $182. agreement in addition to sub­
Abitibi, in its nine mills located stantial improvements in pensions in Quebec, Ontario and Manitoba and holiday provisions. 

ISis Gallery opens 
by Gregg Bangs Staff Reporter 

The Isis Gallery has begun its second season with a display of light sculptures by E.J. Sauter. Sauter is a senior Bachelor of Fine Arts student. His work is the 
·culmination of two years work with light. 
The gallery is located in the Northeast corner of the· Old Field House and is open to the public from one o'clock to four 
o'cltlck in the afternoon, ~Tuesdays through Saturdays'. 
S;luter's exhibition wjll Nist two weeks and is the first of an expected 

four shows to be offered by ISIS .. Light sculpture displaythis semester. • 
highlights the opening of the Isis "Besides displaying an artist's Gallery's second season. 
work, ISIS serves other pur poses." stated Gallery director was trying ·to gei students from Chris Gregory, a second year Art ·othercolleges to display their work Graduate student. "ISIS would at Notre Dame. like to bring about a degree of Gregory said that anybody in­interaction bet"tVeen the Notre terested in exhibiting their work in Dame community and the art the ISIS.would have to have their world." According to Gregory, exhibit reviewed by the Cultural "t)lis can be accomplished · by Arts Commission. Slides of the bringing iu prominent guest artis-works should be included in a 
ts who would lecture to Notre resume. This standard procedure Dame Art students and present· a is used to determine what work show in the ISIS Gallery at the will be shown in the same time." He also added that he four shows given this semester. 
SMC runoffs produce one tie , one -win 
by Jude Peterson in 16 abstentions and one write-in Starr Reporter vote. Voting to break the tie will be 
Ru~-()f( elections at St. Mary's held from 108.11). to 6p.m. Thur­Monday resulted in a tie for Regina sday following official cam­South hall vice-president and the paigning between 9p.m. Monday filling of a seat on the SMC Student and noon Wednesday. Assembly. · Debbie Schoeberlein took a Holy 
Deb Foran and Forthea Wieland Cross seat on the-Student tied with 30 votes each in the Assembly with 91 votes to Jackie election for the Regina Hall Eickholt's 39. There were also 21 position. The election also resulted abstentions. , Florida presidential primary. The new indictment alleged 
-Sirica was expected to that: grant immunity from prosecu­tion to Robert M. Benz, 25, a -Segretti mailed a letter on Young Republican official from Citizens for Muskie stationery Tampa, Fla., and Martin D. in February, 1972, accusing Kelley, both of whom worked Sens. Hubert H. Humphrey and with Segretti, to encourage Henry M. Jackson of sexual their appearance before the indiscretions. Sen. Edmund S. Senate Watergate committee. Muskie and the other two lost 
-The Senate committee ap­to Gov. George C. Wallace in plied in District Court for the Florida primary. immunity for Segretti, saying it -Benz went to a Wallace 
was anticipated he otherwise rally in Pinellas County on Feb. would invoke the Fifth Amend­12, 1972. and distributed cards ment and refuse to testify. sayilll! ''If you like Hitler you'll 
Segretti, a Cam bridge-educat­love Wallace vote for ed attorney, was hired by Muskie." former presidential appoint­-Benz distributed posters ments secretary Dwight L. saying "Help Muskie Support Chapin and paid through Busing our Children Now." President Nixon's personal la­-Segretti paid Benz $50 on wyer, Herbert W. Kalmbach, Dec. 1, 1971, for disruption of allegedly to perform campaign the Jackson and Muskie cam­"dirty tricks." He is scheduled paigns. to testify before the Senate Appearing before Sirica in committee Wednesday. the hearing on sentence reduc­
Segretti indicated on Sept. 17 tion were E. Howard Hunt Jr., he would plead guilty to a new former White House aide and indictment that broadened the one of masterminds of the original one handed down in bugging of Democratic national May. headquarters in the Watergate 
Campus briefs . • • 
horseback 

Tonight's panel discussion "Career: is Your Future in theriding Business World?" will be headed by M. Richard Rosenthal, chair­man of the board and chief
Some time periods remain open executive officer of the Saintfor University of Notre Dame Joseph Bank and Trust Company. 
faculty, students, administrative Representing the business fields of personnel and their families who accounting, banking, retailing, and wish to take advanta~ of special real estate will be: Mr. Mendelreduced rates for horseback riding Piser, Crowe Chizek and Com­at Laughin' Place Riding Academy pany; Miss Pat Morrell, Firstin Niles, Michigan. Twenty-two National City Bank of New York;hours of supervised riding are Mr. George Karatsis, Gilbert's ofoffered by the academy each week South Bend; and Mr. ,Duaneat indoor and outdoor rinks, trails· Bobeck, Bobeck Real Estate, Fortand wooded hillsides. 
Wayne, Indiana.
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College personnel and students presently participate in classes or The lecture series will be held riding sessions at 9:30a.m., 1:30 each Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. in and 3:30 p.m., on Tuesdays and Carroll Hall, with the final session Thursdays. Wednesday mornings of the series December 11. Future are reserved for women, FridaJ · topics will include establishing an mornings for adults, and Saturday adequate insurance program,mornings for Saint Mary's College. credit, and selecting and financing 
Saint Mary's Academy per­a home: sonnel ride on Mondays, South­western Michigan College on Wednesday afternoons, and Observer Stanley Clark on Friday af­ternoons. 
Students may register for twice promotions weekly riding sessions in the registrar's office at a fee of $100 per semester. A fee of $3 per hour 
Kathy Schwille has been namedis charged for other university to the post of Observer Featurespersonnel. 
Editor, Jerry Lutkus, ObserverThe academy is located two Editor-in-Chief announced today.
miles west of .• Niles . on 1 the Schwille, a St. Mary's CollegeBuchanan Road and is under the Senior, is an English major. Herdirection of Robert Egan. 
home town is Roanoke, Virginia. She replaces Beth Hall, an SMC senior from Cleveland, Ohio. Hall
finance has held the position since February. Schwille was the Monday Nightlecture Editor of the paper and appointed to replace her is Robert Baker . 
"Looking Into. Your Financial Baker is a sophomore English 
major from Alexandria,Future," a series of eight financial Louisiana. Named as Baker's1ectures and panel discussions, will assistant is Tim O'Reiley, a fresh­begin tonight at 7:30 p.m. in man from San Diego.
Carroll Hall, Madeleva. 

Sponsored by the SMC depart­ment of business administration and economics, in cooperation with Judaism the 'Saint Joseph Bank and Trust Company of South Bend. the series is designed to "aid women in their talks understanding of the financial aspects of daily life," according to Dr. Farouk Muwakki, chairman of The Jewish Chautauqua Society of the department. New York, N.Y., has announced in May and June, 1972; and four men who actually entered the offices, Bernard L. Barker, the foreman, Frank A. Sturgis, Eugenio R. Martinez, the photographer, and Virgilio R. Gonzales. 
In a prepared statement, Sirica said he was disturbed over "widespread misunder­standing" about their sentences that he imposed in March after their trial. 
"It was never my intention, and again I repeat with emphasis, that the maximum terms of the provisional sent­ences should become the terms of the final sentences," Sirica said. "In this case such a disposition would not only be unwarranted but unjust." 
Sirica· said he had planned to dispose of the sentences last week but all five men filed motions to change their pleas on grounds they were led to believe they were acting in the national interest. 
Hunt was given a maximum 35-year sentence; the others, 40 each. 
continued partial support of a lectureship in Judaism at the University of Notre Dame. 
The lectureship is held by Rabbi Eliot D. Rosenstock of South Bend's Temple Beth El. Rabbi Rosenstock is a part-time assistqnt professor of theology at the University and is teaching a fall term course in Jewish theology. 
The Jewish Chautauqua Society, founded in 1893, is the educational project of the National Federation 
of Temple Brotherhoods. It has assigned 600 rabbis to lecture on request at 1900 colleges, donated 75,000 Jewish reference books to college libraries and produced 30 
, motion pictures on Jewish ethical themes of universal interest for television and group showings. 
hit -and -run 


damage 

Hit-and-run accidents in Notre Dame and St. Mary's parking lots this year have caused considerable amount of property damage. During the first month of this semester six hit-and-runs have been reported to the securitydepartments. 
SMC Security Director , Anthony Kovatch, urges students who have hit a parked car to leave their name and address. Insurance will take care of the damage. Kovatch cited an example which occured a few days ago. "A red Fire bird was parked in the lot. Someone pulled out and put a big dent in the car and left without leaving their name and address." N.D. Security Director, Arthur J. Pears, reported one hit-and-run on the third of September totalling $100 worth of damage. Kovatch sees no reason for these hit-and-run ac­cidents since all registered cars are listed with insurance. 
SMC Security also asks students to lock their cars as a safety precaution. Students sh(JUJd also co-operate in the proper parking of guest cars. 

the observer Tuesday, October 2, 1973
6 

Frenchstudent gives impressions of America 
by Tom Russo Staff Reporter 

Today marks the end of a month­long stay in the United States for Chantal Collet, a native of Angers, France. She was invited to Notre _Dame-St. Mary's by several friends who participated last year in Notre Dame's Foreign Studies Program in France. Her family, by way of dinners and other ac­tivities, befriended many Notre Dame students and helped them to better understand the French way 
with a lyrical tinge of French 
ship with God. accent. "This is a nice place to She would like to spend a year 
of life. In return, they bought the 18-ye~r old student a round-trip ticket to the United States. She is staying here as a guest of St. Mary's student government. 
Her second voyage to the United States, this is Ms. Collet's first visit to Notre Dame-St. Mary's. "This is a nice place-peaceful , " she says chemistry, psychology, and American Character. She was impressed by the quality of classes and professors in comparison the the state educational system predominant in France. She knowledge for knowledge's sake. This together with teachers' lack of rapport with students, has led French youth to see college as a means to a job only, not an an educational process as in America. 
study," she laughs. A pre-med student in Angers, 
Ms. Collet sampled several senses that American students courses at Notre Dame and St. "want to learn. They're curious." France, she feels, has emphasized 
Mary's. including biology, organic 
Fine Arts senior exhibits design work lor Chrysler 
by Janet Denefe Staff Reporter 
Sal Graziano, a senior Fine Arts major, is currently exhibiting his design work inO'ShaughnessyHall. Last summer Graziano wor~ed ic Chrysler's Design Department"and it is these work designs now on display. 
Graziano was one of seven designing students throughout the country that was selected to work for Chrysler. Each was given a specific project to develop during the summer, and Graziano's job was to design a four-passenger luxury car. The car had to be turban-powered and fit within certain limitations such as ground clearance and bumper height, and the creative aspects were up to each student. 
His initial concern was with proportion. He began working with box-like shapes and produced only rough sketches in the beginning, but the exhibit clearly shows that Sal resolved the problem of proportion and became more involved with originality. The exhibit traces his progress from very basic drawings to the finished product. 
There are also several-drawings of the car's interior: the dash­board, the steering wheel, cushioned seats, etc. Graziano found that he enjoyed working in interior design almost more than exterior because he could work with both hard and soft textures. 
Graziano and the other students were continuously given professional guidance and advice by interior and exterior designers atChrysler. Thus, as well as ­
learning the progression of ideas, they learned techniques. 
Any junior interested in automotive design who would like to have the same opportunity that Graziano had should contact Professor Frederick Beckman, the director of Industrial Design. 
studying at Notre Dame in the near 
future because "a year away from 
Her main criticism of Notre home, and family, and even from Dame is that it is too your own language opens your predominantly male. "The ratio mind and helps you to find who you must be near 50-50 to produce are." normal reactions in people." She This afternoon Ms. Collet's plane feels that boys at parties are often is heading from O'Hare to Paris. looking for girlfriends, while the Despite her accurate criticisms, girls want friendships, not serious she treasures a deep feeling for the relationships. Even in France United States and for Notre Dame. elementary and high schools are She would like to thank her friends, generally not co-ed, and "This is the administration at St. Mary's, not good, especially at this time of and all those who were "friendly in life," claimed Ms. Collet. helping me find my way around." 
As for the Notre Dame drinking r---------------, 
tradition, she stated, "I don't like to drink at parties." 
When she first came to the United States, she couldn't see the differences among varied areas. "It's too big. Houses and towns are the same all over the country. There's no regional diversity as in France." She believes this is so because America is a nation of individuals, always moving, with no real roots other than America. "It becomes hard to belong to a place." In contrast, France is a nation of areas, of peoples and countrysides which differ markedly in even an hour's drive. America, she feels is "lost in its sameness." 
/ 
Notre Dame is not, she feels, representative of American colleges. It is made up of students who are in general rich, intelligent, and Catholic. She feels that the unity of religion is beneficial because the required theology courses prompt the students to search for their proper relation­
Parachuting Instruction 

Your first jump course takes only 3 hours. 
World's largest and sales•.
Our 15th year. 
Over 220,000 jumps. 
21,000 First jumps. 
Free brochure. 

PARACHUTES INC., CRAWFORDSVILLE CENTER RR No. 7, Municipal Airport Crawfordsville, Indiana 47933 Phone: 317-362·8253 
THE MASTER OF MIDDLE EARTH 


''J.R.R. TOLKIEN'' 

to all halls, clubs, and organizations: 
If your group is interested in constructing a booth for Mardi Gras '74 during next semester, please contact Terry Gorrell at 234-6274 or Stephen Boy at 232-8436 by FRIDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1973. This deadline is necessary in order to facilitate floor space allocations and other preliminary operations. 
The Architecture Department will assist each organization in their booth 
designs and construction as part of its academic program. More details 
will be furnished after each orgctnization has indicated its intention. 
Thank you. 



MARDI GRAS 197 4 THE MASTER OF MIDDLE EARTH 
'I. 

Tuesday, October 2, -1973 the observer 
7 
Watergate defendants 'punished enough' 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -The lawyer for four of the Water­gate burglars said Monday his clients "weren't ordered to kill anybody" but yet are being treated discourteously by the office of Special Prosecutor Archibald Cox. 
The lawyer, Daniel E. Schultz, also said the families of the four men are strapped for money ar.d are launching a public appeal for defense funds, beginning with a benefit dinner Thursday night in Miami. 
Schultz said his clients­Bernard L. Barker, Frank A. Sturgis, Virgilio R. Gonzalez and Eugenio R. Martinez-have been "punished enough" for their part in the Watergate bugging and yet more trouble may lie ahead. 
He said he had gotten indications that Barker and Martinez would be indicted by a federal grand jury for the 1971 break-in at the office of Dr. Lewis J. Fielding, Daniel Ellsberg's psychiatrist, whereas the leader of the team, Watergate conspirator E. How­ard Hunt Jr., would not be. 
"You ask yourself why are they intent on indicting the men further and at the same time justify not indicting Hunt," Schultz said in a subsequent interview with UPI. "Watergate and the Fielding office are out of the same cloth. 
"They (Cox's office) have constantly treated them dis­courteously. They have shown no sympathy or empathy. 
"They weren't ordered to kill anybody ...They were ap­proached on a basis of where they were asked to get information on a 'traitor."' 
Neither Barker, Martinez nor Hunt were among the four men indicted Sept. 4 by a county grand jury in Los Angeles for the Fielding burglary. Cox's office is known to be investigat­ing the incident and to be considering federal charges. 
Schultz's clients-who have come to be known collectively as "The Cubans" in the Watergate case-were hired by Hunt to carry out the Water­
40,000 Campbell soup labels needed for primary school 
Holy Cross School, a grade school located near Notre Dame, is in need of a movie projector for the primary oepartment and is asking the help of the ND-SMC 
Group threatens renewal of 
WRBR license 
by Gary Allietta Staff Reporter 

People for Progress in Radio, a group of concerned local listeners, hs.ve filed a petition with the FCC to deny the renewal of radio station WRBR's broadcasting license. 
'<. Steve Raymond, 25, spokesman for the group, sald the move was in response to the format change away from progressive rock which WRBR enacted last March. Ed Welch,26, is the group's at­torney. He said that after he filed the petition on July 2, Booth Broadcasting of Detroit, station owner, had until July 22 to file a s­response. Booth obtained several extensions but the FCC has now ruled that they must file by Oc­tober 15. 
Among points on the petition are allegations that WRBR failed to meet community needs and that 
" station logs were falsified. WeJch also noted that no minority em­ployees were used at the station although the entire staff has been replaced twice. 
Both Raymond, who owns Pandora's Books, and Welch pointed out that Booth cited an unprofitable situation as a reason for the change. However, Welch has a balance sheet from 1970-73, the period during which the old format was used, along with statements from station em­ployees, showing that the progressive rock was more profitable. Welch also noted instances of fraud and false representation under the station's new arrangement. 
Both men asked for community support in the matter. In Toledo, courts ruled in favor of the listeners in a similar situation after a group turned in a petition with many thousand signatures. Welch feels that with a similar backing PPR could also be suc­cessful. 
Raymond added that anyone who wishes to help in any way, ex­pecially by signing or circulating petitions, should stop in or call 
Pandora's at 233-2342. 
community. If the school can collect 40,000 Campbell soup can labels before November 25, Campbell's will donate the projector. 
The children are requesting the assistance of all St. Mary's and Notre Dame students, faculty and administration members with their deadline. All the Holy Cross students are collecting labels but it is unlikely they can save enough on their own. They have already gathered 4,000 labels. If just each off-campus student saved 20 labels between now and November 25, the children could have their projector. 
There are 300 children in the primary department and 550 in the school. The primary department is comprised of grades one through 
four. The school has some films and the South Bend Public Library has many films which could be used by the children at no charge, but a projector is often not available to the lower grades. Rising education costs prohibit purchasing a projector. Labels can be dropped off in the Notre Dame Lawyer office in the basement of the law school at any time during the day between now and November 25. The children would appreciate the help. 
AS LONG AS YOU'RE STUCK IN SOUTH BEND 
you should have someone take care of your immediate insurart:e needs namely 
APARTMENT INSURANCE CAR INSURANCE 
at very reasonable rates. 
Call me for a quote: Jim Dunfee 287-4344 DUNFEE GREENAN AGENCY 
1iss Mishawaka Avenue South Bend 15 Indiana 



OBSERVER 

ADVERTISING 
CALL 




283-7471 
OFF-CAMPUS OFFICE 
OPENING MONDAY, OCT. J located in basement of Lafortune HOURS 
MONDAY WEDNESDAY  3-4  TUESDAY THURSDAY  11-12  
FRIDAY  3:00 -4:00  

commissioners 
mike higgins mick hartigan mark proesel 
VOLUNTEERS WELCOME (co-eds preferred) phone 7755 
gate bugging and were all arrested at the Democratic National Committee offices there June 17, 1972. 
They pleaded guilty shortly after their trial began in January, but now are seeking to switch their pleas to innocent on grounds they were misled into believing Watergate was a legitimate national security operation and then pressured to plead guilty and keep quiet. 
All are serving provisional maximum terms of 40 years in prison, though Chief U.S. District Judge John J. Sirica told them Monday he would lighten their sentences later. 
Schultz said very little of the more than $400,000 former Nixon campaign officials have 
testified  was  raised  to  aid  the  
original  seven  Watergate  de­ 
fendants  "trickled down"  to  his  

clients --only about $84,000 total and all prior to January. 


CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 

Desperately need GA tix for the Army and Navy games. Call Call 1364. 
Desperately need 2 USC tix . Call 287-1178 after 10 p.m. 
Need 2-6 GA tix for USC. Will pay reasonably exorbitant prices. Also need 2 GA tix Msu. 
232-2973. 

Want Domes for personal collection _ Need 1911; 1912; 1914; 1915; 1916; 1917; 1918; 
1924; 1924; 1925; 1926; to complete set. Call Tom Kir­shner Acct. dept. 3296 or 234-3790. 
Need dog watcher and exer­ciser on weekends for friendly Irish Setter. Call 287-1178 after 10 p.m. 
Need 2 GA MSU tix -1593. 
Need 2-4 GA tix to MSU. and 
usc. Will pay. Call Scott 1.598 or 214 Grace. 
Stereo mechanic? Need help with turntable repair. Will Pay!!!. Call 6766. 
Need 2 USC GA lix or I'll kill myself. Will pay $40. Call Carole 8148. 
Desperately need 4 USC tix. Will pay. Call Pat 3273. 
Need 5tix for MSU game. Will pay well. Call John 1774. 
Need one or two tix to MSU game. Call Bob 3451. 
Help! Need 2 MSU tix. Call Jeanne 6728. 
Need desperately 2 MSU tix. Will pay well. Liz 4777. 
Need 2 GA tix lor MSU. Steve 1545. 
Need 6 MSU tix. Call 287-1178. after 10 p.m. Will pay. 
Need 3 GA tix to USC game. John 1605. 
Help! Need 2 GA tix to Navy call Barb 1292 or Joe 8219. 
Scalpers-attention. Need MSU tix GA or Stud. Sharon. 287­
4003. 
Roommate needed NO Apts. 832 NO Ave. Apt. 2-A Call 233­1302. 
Help. Desperately need 3 GA MSU tix. Call 5734. 
Need 4 GA + 3 Stu. to MSU. 8472 or 8475. 
Need 2 tix to MSU game. Call OWL 6864. 
Need 3 MSU tix. Mike 3305. 
Need MSU tix. Call Mary 4079. 
Want 2GA USC tix. 272-0913 in evening. 
Want 2 GA MSU tix. Call 5465. 
Need 2MSU tix. Call Tom 6522­437 Cav. 
Need 2 GA tix for USVC. Call jim 234-7022. 
Desperately need 2 GA MSU tix. Call Mike 1820. 
Wanted: 2 Michigan State tickets. Call 233·7638. 
for sale 
Meerschaum Pipes! Ex­ceptional values, personalized service. Catalog. PMP Co. 
Box 444 Gaithersburg, MD. 20760. 
Swiss Mov't. perpetual calendar mercury watches. 17 jewels-only $15. Call Frank 3119. 
Martin 0·35 guitar with hard­shell case. Call Bill 283-1161. 
New hideaway bed green ­black velvet-$130. New irregular gold plaid couch-
Call 291-1117. 
'64 Chevy Malibu. 6 cyln. Needs muffler. $75. 234-5980. 
8 track recorder, 60 tapes, carrying case and car tape with speakers. 287-3002. 
Sony CF -620 AM-FM stereo receivers with speakers. built in cassette deck 1 yr. old. 
Excellent condition. Ed 7965. 
500c.c. Suzuki with 600 miles 5650. 1949 H. D. basket case $150. Rick 233·9122. 
FOR RENT 
1and 2room apt. 7min drive to NO. Call 288· 9633 after 3 p.m. 
NOTICES 
Morrisey Loan Fund can loan up to S150 at 1percent interest, 1 day waiting period. 8aSE'mentof LaFortune. 11:15­
12:15 Mon. -Fri. 
Students interested in ND-SMC GAy Student Alliance call 7768, Wed. or Fri. 7-9P.M. 
MEN! WOMEN !JOBS ON SHIPS! No experience required . Excellent pay . Worldwide travel . Perfect summer job. Or even career. Send $3 for information . SEAFAX, Dept. L·16, PO Box 2049, Port Angeles, 
Washington. 98362. 
Will do typing: Term papers, manuscripts, etc. Call 233-6090. 
Anyone interested in Science Fiction call Jake at 1816. 
SKI THE ALPS+TINGES , FRANCE. IMPORTANT MEETING AND MOVIE PRESENTATION: WED. OCT. 3,7:30PM RM. 1-C LAFORTUNE. 
Anyone  who  might  be  in­ 
terested  in  an  organized  bike  
hike  to  Bendix  woods  )20  

milesl.lleasecall Hush at1487, after 9 pm. 
Skiers interested in racing for the NO racing team­Organization meeting Tues. Oc '-2, 7 :30 Room 1c. Lalor­tune. If you cannot attend, call Bob 234-8783. 
Mardi Gras '74: The Master of Middle Earth. 
LOST AND FOUND 
LDst "Duke" football near Stepan. My name + address are on it. Please return it! Mike, 1487. 
PERSONALS 
To Chris, Tom RMD. Len, +Oream: "You're So Queer!" Luv, Ug 

... 

-~-~---------------------------------------~ 
e the observer Tuesday, October 2, 1973 
Defense dominatesas six shutouts open IH season 
~ySam Vannucci was the only team to blemish Diatonio, and Kevin Ford. Morrissey's otherwise perfect DILLON 34-PANGBORN o Sunday's overcast skies and cool slate. They did it again Sunday, Morrissey may have had its 
breezes offered perfect weather the same as last year, with a o-o troubles, but Dillon certainlyfor the opening of the 1973 lnterhall tie. didn't. Coach Mike BireleyFootball season. Defense, as usual The first half was dominated by borrowed some strategy from early in the IH season, dominated the fierce defensive units and was USC's John McKay and sent his the seven games as nine teams therefore uneventful. Morrissey's squad into its opening gamefailed to push the pigskin across offense, however, dominated the without any previous scrimmages. their opposition's goal line. second half, largely with the It paid off--the Big Red amassed 
Several of the teams, though, performances of QB Tim Pun­238 total yards.had very productive afternoons­tarelli and halfback Gerry Mike O'Neil and Joe Reppenhoff Howard and St. Joe managed 22 Richardson. tallied once apiece while Craigand 32 points respectively, while Three times in the fourth Tighe hit paydirt twice. Dillon's powerful Dillon put 34 points on the quarter, Jl,forrissey began drives final score came when Micky
board. which put them inside Gleason picked off a Pangborn
At the same time Dillon was Cavanaugh's 30 yd. line. Each pass and returned it all the way.romping to its opening day victory, time Cavanaugh's defense th­The aggressiveness of both the one of this year's IH favorites and warted the Maurauders; once on a offense and defense left Bireleylast year's Interhall champs, fumble recovery, once on a pass extremely happy. He emphasizedMorrissey, failed to dent the win interception by Greg Corgan, and that this year's Big Red team is column. finally on a quarterback sacking. "young"-many of the players 
MORRISSEY 0-CAVANAUGH 0 Cavanaugh coach Steve never having played before in IH 
DeCoursey was impressed with his football. team's defensive effort and par­Cavanaugh continued to be a GRACE 0-KEENAN 0 
ticularly with the play of Gus
thorn in the Marauders' side. 
Burlhage, Phil Cernanic, Dan Lack of offensive execution andRemember last year? Cavanaullh 

strong defensive play charac­terized this League No. 3 battle. Keenan's big front four, hard hitting linebackers, and the 
I all ;around play of AI Sondej and Mark Lecluyse successfully
Blarney Stone{d) 
stymied Grace's open offense.
1} 
Grace, on the other hand, needed I' a goal line interception by Sam I I ==============================;===;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;===::::::::::::::::===========;;:::=:::::::::::::::Recent arrivals Galloway to halt a deep Keenan 
Believe it or not, it's hockey season again. For those detractors who penetration. Galloway, though, I think it's too early, that the football season is barely underway, be was just one of the Grace defen­warned! It is hockey season! 
semen which continually belted
I 
Keenan QB Tom Feeney. Feeney
I All one had to do to check this out was to amble over to the North dome of the A.C.C. Once there, they would have found Coach Lefty Smith 
was taken to the hospital after theI putting his charges through their first on-ice sesssion of the year. game and treated for a broken I Notre Dame hockey has a great deal of similarity with its gridiron wrist. counterpart. It is a physical sport, an exciting sport, and a very HOWARD 22-ZAHM 16 I rewarding one. 
Upperclassmen, particuarly the seniors, can tell the newcomers of du While most other teams were
I' 
Lac a lot of stories about Irish hockey, particuarly about the quick rise experiencing offensive headaches, 
I 
the ice program has made both on the ice and in the hearts of fans here at Howard and Zahm demonstrated
I 
Notre Dame. that it wasn't against any law ofI When this writer was a freshman, attending a hockey game wasn't the nature for both teams to score in a 
I 
thing to do on Friday and Saturday nights. People stayed away in sec­IH football contest. Howard's wide 
I I 
tions. Although the squad was preparing for its entrance into the tough open attack led by veteran IH
' 
Western Collegiate Hockey Association, entertaining such league powers quarterback Carl Oberzutz, and
I 
as Denver and North Dakota, the fans wanted no part of this foreign (to Zahm 's ground oriented offense
I 
I 
them) sport. led by QB Dan Reagan and
I 
Then, my sophomore year, the Irish did get admission to the WCHA, tailback Phil Weckworth ac­
I 
and fared pretty well, finishing eighth and gaining the last playoff spot, counted for 38 points. facts which were impressive because the league was new to many of the Zahm opened the scoring when I players. Weckworth went up the middle six 
I 
The fans, thanks to publicity from Steve Klein of the South Bend yards for six points. Howard tied
! 
Tribune and Jim Donaldson of this paper, filled the A.C.C., to capacity the score at 8-8 on a so-yd. TD many times. In fact, their vocal support gave said many of the players, strike from Oberzutz to Dan the impetus for the finish the Irish needed to make the playoffs. Samons. 
~ 
Last year, the fan(atics) were there from the start and the team was Following a Zahm fumble, too. Notre Dame rose to second in the league, knocked off North Dakota Oberzutz again threw for paydirt­
I 
I in the semi-finals of the playoffs before bowing to last year's eventual this time flanker Gary Pannone national champs from Wisconsin in the finals. was on the receiving end. Howard For many of this year's returners, the current season started after that tallied again in the third quarter disappointing final loss (4-3) to the Badgers. Ric Schafer, a center and when Rick Aresnberg galloped 65 one of the team's tri-<:aptains, echoed this last fact, saying, I couldn't wait yards for a touchdown. Zahm got to get started this year after that last game. on the board again late in the 
Defenseman Steve Curry and rightwinger Ian Williams, the other fourth quarter when QB Reagan captain1, also are excited about this year's squad. Yesterday, after the hit Casey Nolan for a 60-yard pass workout, Curry, speaking to no one in particualr, said, "'lbe countdown play. for Michigan Tech (Notre Dame's opening opponent) begins today." ST. JOE 32-LYONS 0 
Williams, who finished second last season in the team scoring race to St. Joe, riding the arm of fresh­Eddie Bumbacco, was honest about his personal goal. "'lbe National man George Gulyas (sound Championship. That's my goal. Is there any other?" familiar?) also had little trouble 
Make no mistake about it. The Irish hockey squad is ready to face the scoring. Gulyas flung 3 TD passes­season. And although there is still a great deal of practice to come before -2 of them to end Tommy Conaty the opening series at Tech, there should indeed be this optimism among and one of 20 yds. to captain Dan
i~ the playP.rs, particularly after last season's spectacular play. Reuttiger. Reuttiger and tailback 
il 
i< Hopefully, the fans will be as optimistic, particuarly since the home Tony Tonto also tallied on the opener is against those same Wisconsin Badgers who barely beat the groud for the winners. Irish in the playoff finals. Defensively it was a team effort. 
-----------------------------------St. Joe's aggressive front four 
A birth is a blessed event which can only be approached inhappinessby continuously harassed Lyons'
i~ 
a Notre Dame victory over Southern Cal. quarterbacks Aaron Whitaker and 
'I This part of today's column is dedicated to this natw:ai ev~nt because Greg Pearl--sacking them, during the nast sixyears,Irish fans have eagerly awaited, m the other blocking passes, and forcing bad case what ·has become an annual unnatural one. passes. Lyons coach J.P. Jeffrey 
My friend, D.B., and his wife, Ellen, had a visit from. the stork the o~er attributed the failure offensively day. The gift weighs in at 7 pounds, 15 ounces. H1s name was Fhnt and defensively to disorganization. Michael. FLANNER 0-0FF-CAMPUS 0 
Knowing D.B., the birth was just another occu_rrence. He proba~ly took This game was a bit differentit in stride. But this wrtier didn't. I think I worned more than he d1d. 
than the other two scoreless ties.
o.B. and Ellen are real sports fans. In fact, the first wor~ out. of the Both Flanner and Off-Campusproud papa's mouth when he woke me early Sunday mornmg with the showed offensive promise at times happy tidings was, Fin, I've got a quarterback." . 
but disorganization, fumbles, andThese words can not possibly express the happmess I have for the interceptions spelled final greatest couple I know. And even though you attended Ohio State, Ell~n, disaster.
you're one helluva girl. You'll just have to get used to the baby's gifts 
The defenses played much the from our bookstore, that's all. same way-spirited, but with a So take care of the little kid and tell him Uncle Fin will see him when he 
tendency to lapse and give up long comes home for the Army game. I love you all. 
gainers. Coach Jim Rashid of The lnterhall football season opened Sunday and despite some staunch defensive performances there were a few high-scoring affairs. 

Flanner emphasized a team effort Sorin's defense stopped a quar­ciefensively terback sneak on the last play of ALUMNI 7-SORIN 0 the half to end the threat. 
Alumni got on the board in the 
This League No. 2 game was fourth quarter with a 6 yard run, played evenly throughout the first which was set up by a 37 yard pass three quarters. Alumni did have play. Sorin captain John Powers, the pressure on Sorin's defense despite the loss, was happy with just before the first half whistle the defensive effort and saw signs when they blocked a punt; but of offensive improvement. 


]V's dump Wolverines 10-3 
freshman Dan Knott continuallyby Pete McHugh 
smashed the Michigan line in the The artificial grass which adorns 
game's only touchdown drive. On a second down andgoalsituation
Cartier Field is an unusual com­modity. Horses can't eat it, people 
from the four, Parise dove off­can't mow it, and students can't tackle into the end zone but fum­
bled in the process. Fortunately,
smoke it. And when it is wet, football players often can't stand 
however, split end Kevin Doherty up on it. 
recovered the wet pigskin for the Yesterday, Cartier was quite wet 
only Irish touchdown of the af­ternoon. Junior placekicker Jackas Notre Dame's JV football team Stephan added the extra point.
outslipped and outslid the In the second half the game
Michigan Wolverines 10-3 for its second victory in al> many starts. 
tuned into a punting duel between Michigan's Darrell Truitt and Irish 
With sophomore halfback Tom Parise staying on his feet for 61 
sophomore Tony Brantley. Brantley, averaging 40 yards per
yards in 13 carries, the Irish offense controlled the action 
kick easily outdistanced Truitt in rushing 60 times for 210 yards and an equal number of attempts. 
Michigan finally got on the
twelve first downs. Coach Denny Murphy, however, 
scoreboard in the third period on a 22 yard field goal by Bob Wood.
overlooked these statistics, "We Irish kicker Stephan, a walk-()ncouldn't execute short yardage from Trenton, New Hersey, replied situations or the score would have with a 39 yard kick in the fourthbeen higher. We came up dry on a quarter to close the afternoon'slot of third and one situations." 
scoring.

While the offense had trouble The Irish defense was testedconverting on third down, the throughout the second half by thedefense shut off a vengeful Wolverine offense. SophomoreMichigan offense limiting the linemen AI Wujciak and JayWolverines to only a field goal for Achterhoff spend much of theirthe second consecutive week. A day in the Michigan backfieldfirst quarter goal line stand, in­while the Notre Dame passterceptions by freshmen Mike defense, spearheaded by TomOstrander and Mike Banks, and Maschmeier, allowed only fourtwo fumble recoveries by Wolverine pass completions.
sophomore defensive end Ken Coach Murphy though notAndler thwarted Michigan drives. 
satisfied with his team's overallThe first half saw both teams performance, said simply, "Thestymied by the soggy astro turf game wasn't spectacular, but weand a slippery football. In the won." The JV Irish next encounter second quarter, with quarterback 
is against Purdue's reserves
Rick Slager at the helm, Parise Monday October 8 at Cartier Field. 
along with junior Tom Bake and 
Spartans drop ND harriers 
By Hal Munger Marino crossed the line eleventh. 
The fighitng Irish cross country Sensational frosh Jim Reinhart team lost to Michigan State was out of action with a leg injury. University on a damp ND golf The loss evened the ND home course Friday 23-33. The early dual meet record at 1-1, while the afternoon rain , soaked the five dual meet record now stands at 1-2. mile course and by the 4PM race Good team effort earned the time the weather was still overcast victory for the Spartans. " They and threatening. The Spartans ran tough as MSU teams always bunched runners in the 2-3-4-5-do," remarked ND coach Don spots to account for the bulk of Faley. "Housely <Mike) did an their scoring excellent job though" concluded 
Notre Dame junior Mike Housely Faley. won the meet a time of 24:52. Jim ' Valparaiso invades Notre Dame Hart was the sixth place finisher. territory Tuesday affor a 4:00 dual Joe Yate placed seventh. Mike meet with the Irish harriers on Gahagin pulled in eighth and Greg the Notre Dame golf course. 
I' 




