~ -----~ ---~---~----"!11 
On The Inside 

Ramm Dass speech .... see page 2 New WSND manager. .....see~ page 10 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VII No. 116 Wednesday, April 25, 1973 
Three tickets in SBP election 
Three tickets for Student Body President and eight candidates for the Board of Commissioners filed nominating petitions by the Tuesday deadline. The election is tomorrow. 
The tickets of Dennis Etienne-Mike Geisinger, Rick Gering-Kevin O'Brien and Brian McGinty-Bill McLean sumbitted petitions with the required 30Q signatures. They will campaign for the positions vacated by Bob Kersten administration. 
"We are running on what we did this year," said SBVP candidate Mike Geisinger. "I think that is the­only way we can," said his running mate Etienne. Etienne is the current Student Body Vice President. Geisinger is former Assistante Treasurer for Student Government. 
"We are running again because I feel we are in the best position to serve the students," Etienne said. 
Etienne-Geisinger have no definite proposals. "To many things can happen in the course of a year to run on too many promises," Etienne said. 'The ticket will concentrate on their past success and their knowledge of the duties of the offices. 
"A procedural Protection Clause must be added to the Notre Dame Judicial Code, to guarantee the rights of all students at NotreDame," reads a plat­formstatement of the Gering-o'Brien ticket. In ad­dition, Gering-o'Brien will push for a revamped Ombudsman Service and a "Public Defender of the Student Body," a lawyer or law student to represent students. 

McGinty-McLean will give the students access to their own files. 

The Gering-O'Brien ticket will push for "Public defender of the Student Body." 
"We still need a SBP for 11ext year and we feel that 
our platform can reconcile the split.s that have 
developed over the past months into an effeCtive 
working system for next year," Gering said. 
In addition to their "Student Rights" proposals, 
Gering-o'Brien have offer a number of suggestions in 
the area of Off-Campus improvements, improvements 
in social atmosphere and guaranteed funding for halls, 
off campus students and the Student Union. ~ 
"We'd like to have thi hcwe access to their 
own files," said Bill McLean about his major campaign 
position. McLain, currently the Student Government 
Ombudsman, would like to push for complete ex­
planation of the files the university keeps on its 
students. 
"We are especially concerned about the comments 
by advi&ors. Some advisors haven't been of the highest quality," said McGinty who is running with McLean. The McGinty-McLean ticket points to the wide range of counselling services on campus and hopes to direct the 
students to more efficiently use them. 
"We would like to make sure counselling isn't 
inadequate, though we are not saying it is inadequate. 
We will try to sort everything out and get rid of 
overlaps," McLean said. 
In addition to the conselling proposals McGinty­
McLean will campaign with a number of Research and 
Development ideas and improvement ideas in the 
academic areas and off-campus living. 
The race for the six Board of Commissioner seats is largely unvtested. Four of the six distrcits will have only one candidate officilaly listed but several write-in candidates may campaign actively. 
Running uncontest in district three, comprised of Flanner and Grace Towers, is Mike Hess. In district 5, which includes Sorin, Walsh, Badin, Dillon and Alumni halls, only Jude Bremer will be on the ballot. Bob Connolly is the only candidate in District 6, which in­cludes Pangborn, Fisher, Lyons, Morrissey and Howard Halls. 
In District 2, with Farley Breen-Phillips, St. Ed's and Cavanaugh halls, Karen Moty will be the only name on the ballot but Pat Dore has already an­nounced his intentions to run as a write in for this district. 
Christopher J. Mcmanus and Bob Kincaid will campaign for the Distict 1 seat which is the off-campus vote. In District 4, comprised of Holy Cross , St. Joe's, Stanford, Keenan and Zahm Halls, Matt Kubik and Ed Rahill will seek the Board of Commissioners seat. 
Campus students can vote in their halls Thursday during the meal hours. Off-Campus students may vote all day Thursday in the off-campus office in the basement 'of LaFortune. 

For party platfor1ns see page 10 
Rathburn, resigns from AAUPpost 
Commenting that faculty input into University governance was "empty appearances of faculty participation," Professor Paul Rathburn stepped down from his position as chapter president of the American Association of University Professors. Rathburn also announced that Professor Dennis Dugan, chairman of the economics department would succeed him in that post. 
Rathburn made his an­nouncement of the Lyn Leone show on WSND. Also on he show w with Rathburn and Dugan was Professor Edward Trubac, newly elected vice president of the AAUP. 
The professors cited ten major areas in which they foung in­fringement upon faculty rights. 
Rathburn commented that the 
appointment of Fr. James Burt­
chaell as University Provost was 
done without consulting the faculty 
manual or any faculty body. 
Faculty was not c.onsulted con­
cerning the creation of the office of 
provost at all. 
Rathburn continued citing the 
Notre Dame report no. 4 in which 
Fr. Theodore Hesburgh stated that 
forty-five of 750 faculty professors 
at Notre Dame were female. 
Rathburn continued citing the 
following facts from' Notre 'Dame report no.13: Of 45 women only 24 belong to the teaching and research faculty; of those 24 cnly 14 are full time; of those 14 oni.Y 9 have chance of tenure; of those 9 only one has tenure and two have received notice of ntn-renewal. 
Concerning the Lewis Hall inicdent, Rathburn noted that the girl has asked assistance from the 
AAUP. discussed meeting. 
The matter will be at the spring chapter 
' 
The fourth point covered by Rathburn concerned the four 
University priority Committees. His first grievance was that they were appointed without consulting any faculty body. His second 
complaint  was  that  it  was  
originally  established  without  
women.  

Also concerning admi~istration dictates, Rathburn noted that the 150 year old Scholastic is repor­tedly threatened with extinction. Rathburn attributed this to the magazine's critical view of the administration. 
Trubac added the siJ!lth point saying that the "salary situation here (at Notre Dame) is dismal." Trubac quoted a 2 per cent pay raise for faculty and compared it to the expected 6 per cent national cost of living increase. The level of compensation for this year is 1 per cent or 2 per cent compared to a 6 per cent national compensation increase, added Dugan. 
The eighth point, covered by Dugan, concerned academic freedom. "The myths concerning collective bargining ha'fe been largely dispelled thanks to Professor Rathburn," commented Dugan. 
AAUP policy with regards to collective bargaining is left on a local basis. Dugan noted ,that the AAUP provides its exper~se only 

when the situation wa~nts. 
Notre Dame administration has never allowed University govern­ment by faculty consensus, commented Dugan. He further noted that budget cutbacks have resulted in total elimination of Faculty decision-making power. 
Trubac and Rathburn concluded the interview with a plea for more faculty representation on the Priorities Committee. "Faculty salaries make up 50 per cent to 60 per per cent of the totla budget expenses," noted Trubac. Ex­penses should be distributed proportionately with faculty moderated priorities, addec Rath­

burn. 
the spring chapter meetiQg of the AAUP will be held 11t the Univerrsity Club on May 2. A summary of the year's w•rk will be given and beer and pret~els will be provided. The meeting is open to rll faculty and students, 



J. the observer Wednesday, April 25, 1973 
two hours to a large crowd on a "you" is anybody you want it to be. 

Bib overalls. 
variety of subjects: his own Ram Dass first became well-personal history, raised levels of known at Timothy Leary's cohort, consciousness, love, suffering, back in the early sixties, when they , existence, God, and other themes were experimenting with LSD. in Eastern philosophy. That was when he was still 

For doing what 
However, this variety of sub­Ricgard Alpert, a psych-therapist jects, for Ram Dass, form one who taught at Harvard. Following 

comes naturally. 
subject, which is that if we Baba Ram Dall spolte on a variety
recognize the "living spirit" in The Observer Is publiShed dallyourselves and everybody else, we o/ themes. during the college semester except
vacations by the students of the don't have to worry about the difficult to isolate any part of his University of Notre Dame and St. particulars that our "role • rambling presentation. It bore a Mary's College. Subscriptions playing"demands. And one of close resemblance to his book, may be purchased tor sa per
these particulars is worrying about semester !Sl.C per year) from The
Remeber: Be Here Now, both in Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, what he himself was saying. form and content in that they are Indiana 46556. Second class For this reason and also because both formless and contain ran-postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556
of the spontaneity of his talk, it is dom. individual 1 reflections on L-__ _·-----------l 
!r==================================~=================================================================================================:======================:==:=:::=;:========================================:==============================================

I WithTWA I
Iitpaystobeyou~g.l 
~=~ Armed with just your Stutelpass,* and 1:1: ~~ a pack on your back, you can get a lot more 1~1~i for a lot less with 1WA. :111 I ~~~~~~ I
. 
~ 

;;:: Stutelpass. :111 
~ For a mere $5.20 a night you'll be i ~~ guaranteed student hotel accommodations i
i: (at the least) without reservations in :1:~ :::~ 50 European cities. That includes breakfast, 1:1: ~~: tips, service charges and, believe it or not, f~:~ =~~ even some sightseeing. Pick up your -~;:: ~~~ Stutel pass Coupon Books at any 1WA office, ~~ :::; or see your Campus Rep. :;:~ 
For the earth-oriented 
student, square back

i . 0 * 
~~~~ Destination Europe Pack. !~~~~ 
bib overalls in blue denim, Hickory Stripe 

~~~j A free pack full of everything you need ~~ 
in sizes 32 to 50 -­

:~:~ to know about getting around when you :~:~: 
649 

1:~i don't know the language well enough to ~~~ :~:~ ask. Student flights, student tours, Eurail-~::: 
Blue chambray shirt

i~ pass application, Britrail Pass application, ! 
in polyester-cotton is 

r 
Penn Prest for easy

i student I.D. applications and more. :;:: 

·warld briefs 
!C) 1973 New York Times 
Washington--High-ranking administration officials said Tuesday that Henry A. Kissinger's call for a "new Atlantic Charter" was meant to signal Western European leaders that President Nixon wants to sign a major document of agreed principles when he visits their countries later this year. 
Washington--The United States made public a sharply worded reply to Hanoi's charges of cease-fire violations, accusing the North Viet­namese of "direct and inexcusable" breaches of the three-month-old Vietnam accord. Washington was responding to a note of April 16, addressed to the nations that participated in the Paris conference on Vietnam, in which North Vietnam contended that United States and the Saigon Government had "brazenly and systematically violated many essential provisions" of the cease-fire agreement. 
Washington--Federal investigators have determined that White House officials were regularly kept informed last May and June of some of the information obtained through the illegal wiretapping of the Democratic Party's National Headquarters, sources close to the case said. 
Washington--President Nixon met for an hour in Washington with John J. Wilson, a Washington lawyer for two presidential aides, H.R. Haldeman and John D. Ehrlichman, in connection with the Watergate case. 

an campus taday 
6: 30--meeting, sailing club, 204 engineering. 
6: 30--mini-course, how to buy a used car, 127 nieuwland. 
7: 30--spring dance, logan center volunteers, st. mary's clubhouse. 
7:30-11:30-movies, chaplin, 
w.c. fields, buster keaton, Iafortune ballroom, free 
8: 00--lecture, john mcdonald, audio-visual theatre, cce. 
8:00 --lecture, introduction, part II, transcendental meditation, architecture aud. 

In Library talk 
Ram Dass stresses 'living spirit' 
by Bill Sabin Staff Reporter' 

things that must be taken as a his drug adventures, he went to "It's all just\ more stuff"saidl 
whole. India where he met his guru and 
Baba Ram Dass,formerly'Richard Ram Dass 's message is best shed his identity to become "Ram Alpert, PHD( as both a description summed up in a song he sang in the Dass" which means "servant of of his initial five minutes of silence middle of his talk, into which the God." and a preface to his ensuing talk enthusiatic audience soon joined: The talk was sponsored by the last night in the Library "Listen, listen to my heart's so1',!g; Academic Commission. Auditorium. I will never forsake you, I will Ram Dass then spoke for over never forget you." He said that the 
..... 
~ t Europe Bonus Coupon Books. 
r " Take your boarding pass to any TWA
t 
Ticket Office in :Wndon, Paris, Rome, 

r 
Frankfurt, Madrid, Athens or Amsterdam,

t 
~~~~;d and you'll get a book of bonus crupons good 

l f ~ for all kinds offree things and extras in those cities. Like we said, with TWA it pays to be young. For all the details write: TWA­IT PAYS TO BE YOUNG, Box 25, Grand Central Station, New York, N.Y. 10017. for more information call DAN SHEEHAN 283-3610 
TWA Campus Representative 
care. S-M-L-XL. . 349 


JCPenney 

We know what you're looking for. 
J .C. Penney Co., So. Bend, 
Open Daily 9.:30 to 9:00 Sat. 'til 6:30, Sun. 12:30 to 5:30 
Collegiate Notes 
Understand <~II subjects, plays ,1nd novels faster! Thou,<~nds of topics <~vailable within 48 hour,s of mailing Complete with bibliography and footnotes Lowest Prices <~re 
GUARANTEED SEND $1.90 tor our latest descriptive Milil Order C<~talogue with Posl<~ge.P,1id Order Forms too: 
COLLEGIATE RESEARCH 1 N. 13th St. Hldg. Rm 706 Phila. Pa. 19107 
HOT-LINE ( 215) 563-3758 


·Wednesday, April 25, 1973 the observer 
ND students back lettuce boycott 
university will uphold their measure saying, "We're happy picked by the United Farm

by James Rosini decision and he said that he has about the overwhelming support To this date, only student 
Workers. When this lettuce is not 
cafeterias on campus areStaff Reporter already forwarded the results of that the boycott received." 

available, the university will not boycotting lettuce. McNally wouldthe survey to Fr. Jerome Wilson, McNally then added, "We would buy lettuce from any other union. 
like to see all other places onNotre Dame students have voted vice-president of financial affairs, like to have seen more people that campus serving food, boycottto support the United Farm who will put the boycott in effect. the 53 percent that did vote." The Teamsters Union and the lettuce.

Workers Union and boycott let­Faccenda also said that he was Last August the administration United Farm Workers Union are tuce. pleased with the way in which made a decision to support Chavez the two unions which are involved After making the lettuce boycott Of the fifty-three percent of the students, "faced up to this crucial and buy his lettuce first but if that with almost all lettuce uckering in such a success throughout the
students that did vote last Monday social issue." supply was exhausted they would the United States. "The Team­country, Chavez is now devotingin the dining halls, seventy-eight Fr. Terrence McNally, who be forced to buy from other sters are not really representing percent voted in favor of the helped run the Campus Ministry's sources to fulfill the student's diet. the farm worker," said McMNally. his time to bringing about a similar 
boycott. . survey and who has spoken to reaction to the boycotting ofDr. Phillip Faccenda, vice­Ceasar Chavez, president of the The students' decision to boycott "Only the United Farm Workers grapes, in the farm worker's in­
president of student affairs, United Farm Workers, thanked lettuce now means that the represents the farm workers terest. assures the student body that the students for their support of the university will only buy lettuce demands." 
CILA plans to visit five summer project sites 
by Michael O'Hare opportunity to experience life from members of CILA will conduct will participate in a two year· Five CILA volunteers will also perspectives that would .otherwise their 1973 summer projects. The
Staff Reporter community effort ot construct a travel to the Turtle Mountain 
be impossible to attain. The aim of other project sites include 

warehouse and office. The tree Indian Reservation this summer to 
The Turtle Mountain Indian CILA is expressed in its 1973 Clarksdale, Mississippi; Ciudad women will be located in Huetamo help and organize and staff a Reservation in Becourt, North Summer Project Report, "To Altimirana-Huetamo, Mexico; and and will assist in the operation of a government sponsored. summer Dakota is a place that many attain an honest understanding of St. Lucia, an island off the coast of nursing home. recreational program.Americans do not know exists and our less fortunate neighbors in Venezuela. A traditional CILA In Clarksdale, Mississippi the In St. Lucia five volunteers will which five CILA members will different cultural settings, so that project in New York City's East seven CILA members will be be involved in the staffing of a local experience th.IS summer. d 1 · teaching day and evening summer hospital. Besides lending
we might realistically relate to Harlem is a fifth possiblility if Entering its twelfth year as the them, · thus.enabling us to fulfill interested stu ents app y 1m-school classes to high school assistance as ward orderlies, the Christians volunteer project Christ's commandment of love." mediately. students who would otherwise be students will organize a medical 
th d ts f A North Dakota Indian Reser-The six Notre Dame-st. Mary's left back or drop out of school. The library in the hospital.
organization for e stu en ° students travelling to Mexico will
Notre Dame and St. Marys, CILA vation is one of four places in North group will slso do much needed During the current school year,(Council for the International Lay ·AND South America where the be working on two projects. In repair work around the church and CILA has conducted two projectsApostolate) provides students the Notre Dame and St. Mary's r.iudad Altimirano the three men convent. .'(continued on page 8) 
Lifton to give speech f 



on Vietnant Veterans 
individual psychology and

"Victims and Executioners: 
historical change, in addition to the

Transformations of Vietnam 
problems surrounding the extreme 

Veterans" will be discussed by Dr. 
historical situation of our era.

Robert J. Lifton tomorrow evening 
He has published numerous

at 8:30 pm in the library 
books on this subject, the most

auditorium. 
notable of which is Death in Life:

A professor of Psychiatry at 
ex­Survivors of Hiroshima, winner of

Yale Lifton has conducted 
the National Book Award in the

tensi~e research in the field of 
Sciences and the Van Wyck Brooks

psycho-history, which is concerned 
Award for non-fiction.

with the relationship between 
Course mix-ups explained 
about courses labelled "M" in the

In a letter of apology to Dr. 
course schedule book, has

William Liu, chairman of 
resuled in some confusion about 

Sociology and Anthropology, 
the status of Anthroplogy courses.

Scholastic Course Evaluation 
The "M," used in place of a check

Editor Greg Contin attributed the 
mark, merely indicates that

absence of Antrhopology course 
majors may reserve a space in the 

evaluations to a mix-up of 
course prior to registration. Thh

;rssignments. 
is done to insure majors the op­

Contin said that he asked a 
portunity minimum

Sociology major to review courses to fulfill 
departmental requirements.

in both disciplines, but the student 
Remaining spaces are open to all

only evaluated courses in 
non-majors with an interest in the

Sociology. 
biological or social sciences. 

This mix-up, plus the confusion 
St. JosephS College 
A tradition of Jesuit excellence since 1851 
summer 1973 
COEDUCATIONAL•LIMITED HOUSING ON CAMPUS 
FIRST SESSION 
AFT. & EVE.: MAY 21-JUNE 28 MORNING: MAY 29-JUNE 29 
SECOND SESSION 
AFT. & EVE.: JULY 2-AUGUST9 MORNING: JULY 2-AUGUST 3 GRAD. CHEM & ED. JUNE 18-AUGUST9 
REGISTRATION 
IN PERSON ... MAY 15& 16 
forcompleteschedule of courses write or call .. 

~·--------------------------------~----~~ 

HOW ARE THINGS AT HOME? 

Long distance still is the next best thing to being there. And you can save money by calling nights or weekends. 


@Indiana Bell 
•I 
Wednesday, April 25, 1973
the observer 

Collegiate Seminar is described 
by William Murphy Staff Reporter 
A summarized report of the 
Collegiate Seminar Program 
describes the program as "a two­
semester interdepartmental 
course required of all students, 
with some exceptions, in the 
College of Arts and Letters in 
either their junior or senior year." 
According to Professor John 
Osterle, directo r of the program: 
"The Collegiate Seminar is not a 
department in an official sense, 
but a program. It offers courses 
which reflect the interdisciplinary 
character of the College ofArts and 
Letters, extending to the 
University as a whole." 
Origin 
The Collegiate Seminar has been 
given continuously at Notre Dame 
since 1956. The ideas of the 
seminar was to reduce the study of 
certain great works of western 
literary tradition to one year and 
as such the seminar would be an 
off -shoot of the General Program 
of Studies. 
"At its inception", said Osterle," 
it was particularly welcomed as a 
greet relief from other courses 
then offered, usually the stan­
dard, textb.,ok, lecture type 
course. The success of the 
Collegiate Seminar course has led, 
among other reasons, and par­
ticularly withmt the last half 
dozenyears,to many1course being 
offered in the Collegiate Seminar 
style, and hence the unique appeal 
of the Collegiate Seminar has been 
somewhat blunted." 
Strengths and Weaknesses 
One of the major weaknesses of 
the seminar is that so many other 
course s now resemble it and there 
is an overlapping of curriculum. 
Another problem, said Osterle, is 
that the course involves a great 
deal of time and effort for students 
in the amount of reading and 
writing required. 
"There is also", said Osterle, "some dissatisfaction among some ~tudents in reading 'Great Books' which \ they mistakenly assume not to be relevant." Collegiate Seminar is also the only common, two semester, college-wide required course left in the curriculum and there is a long­standing objection among both students and educators to any~ course being a required one. 
The single most serious weakness facing,. Collegiate Seminar is .the abSence of per­manent staff because of the tenure problem and the status of Collegiate Seminar as a program rather than a department. 

"There is an ' unevenless in the various sections given", said Osterle, "when forty sections have to be staffed by only a small number of continuing regulars; when the bulk bf the teaching staff has to be found in the various departments subject to their good will and availabilityof personnel; when an instructor is assigned to teach in the seminar who has little interest in it and migh t even be opposed to its spirit and objectives, then it is not at all surprising that some sections do not have a suc­cessful community of interest and enthusiasm on the part of both student and instructor. Any real weakness or difficulty of Collegiate Seminar disappears with a motivated and devoted teacher." 
Osterle also felt that the strengths of Collegiate Seminar outweighed the weaknesses. One of these strengths, according to 
fMDtJ~lso_k_l: 
I 'JI 
llTACitER TfW/IIiN~ ~~ 
:~ s~ "'~fA...,.. il: 1 '" ~ .~,~,$"--'1:
I.,.,..."'FitsTftr (4~ 
. I 

: ~WLI) 111 ~ou~.,.,j l l'-~-''" • ._..' 
Osterle, in the long run, is the fact that the seminar is a required and common course for students.''With a common reading list and a common set of objectives", said Osterle," a good educational bond is developed; students share this common experience hnd discuss in and out of calss the great issues and topics, thus helping to provide a community of learning that should characterize the sort of University that""Jotre Dame seeks to be." · 
The "Great Books" are also tending to figure less and less in education and according toOsterle, a person unrelated lwith them is bound to remain illiterate in many respects. Osterle felt that the fact that the course is required turns into an asset, especially after graduation. 
Other members of the 
present staff 
The Associate Director o( the Collegiate Seminar Program is Professor Thomas Musial. Musial defended the use of "Great Books" in the seminar: According to Musial the ~·Great1 Books" defme our culturaltradition. "The works considered on the seminar reading list, said Musial, "ask a basic set of qufi!Stions; they are asked at dif­ferent times in different w~ys py different. men. Collegiate Seminar utilizes these works to see the maany ways. these questions are analyzed. The student can develope a skeletel structure on which to fit his life from the matrix of solutions to the proposed set of questions." 
Musial also stated that if 
students are hostile to the seminar 
because it is required or because 
they don't believe the readings to 
be relevent, they are shutting out 
the full knowledge available in the 
"Great Books". Musial felt that 
some sections were deviating from 
the original concept of the seminar 
by changing the reading lists. 
"CollegiateSeminar", said Musial, 
"Has a specific objective and this should not be tampered with. The course was meant to be a study of traditions and not of contemporary works." 
One of the seminar instructors 
drawn from another department is 
Associate Professor of Physics, 
James Cushing. Cushing said that 
the reason he consented to .help 
with the seminar program was 
that it would give him the op­
portunity to do some non-technical 
reading which he hadn't done for 
awhile. Cushing also felt that his 
scientific background might ex­
pose a different viewpoint to the 
Arts and Letters student. 

Cushing believes that the reading list for the seminar should be a combination of old works with some that are more contemporary. 
He also stated that he had changed some of the current readings because students in his section had made several suggestions and attempted to show the same basic set of questions present in the contemporary work as in the original "Great Book". 
Cushing also felt that the role of Collegiate Seminar has changed because of the narrowing trend of education. "Collegiate Seminar is almost a last chance for some students to be exposed to some areas of knowledge. The role of the seminar has come 180 degrees." 
Professor Raymond Brach is another instructor who has a technical background. Brach, who teaches aereospace and mechanical engineering, came to the program to improve his own liberal background. 
Brach believed that Collegiate Seminar should be required. "There should be someplace", said Brach, "to draw together all the ideas the student has assimilated and to compare and contrast them to others views of life." 
Brach compared the seminar program to a design course he offers for enginereing students. "The purpose of the design course", stated Brach, "is to have the student brin g together all his engineering ideas in overall ap­plications." 
Brach also felt that the topics 
discusse!l in the "Great BoOks" 
could also be present in more 
contemporary works and that he 
would incorporate such works into 
the reading list if the .students 
could show examples of the topics 
scheduled to be discussed. 
Possibly the only regualr staff member of the Collegiate Seminar Program is Professor Mary Lynn Bree. Bree believed that the seminar could be improved upon. 
"Students must check and balance one another", said Bree. "Students must develop .respon­sibility and stop talking to hear themselves talk. They should instead learn the art of asking intelligent questions about literature. This would make seminar a more enjoyable ex­
<continued on page 8) 






THINK HAGGAR 
Pleasant thought. When you see the new line of 
spring-summer slacks that Haggar has in mind 
for you you'll find it easy to think Haggar; great­
for-going double knits in solids and plaids, pants 
that wash and wear with no ironing needed. 
Ever. What do you think? 
from $14 

Great Haggar baggies are here, too! 

O,N THE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAME 
THE EXECUTIVE SUITE HAS NO KEY TO THE WASHROOM 
... but, then, it's designed to stay ahead of the competition 
It's not easy to manage a multi-million dollar plane. You have to put a college degree in your pocket and specialized training in your head before you're ready to travel. The United States Air Force gives you the finest training in the world-Officer Training School and Pilot Training-designed to get you on top and keep you there. And you'll discover, as many have before you, that the training and the preparation was well worth the effort to join the fraternity of supersonic men in positions of real leadership. When you're checked.out for the executive suite, your starting salary will be more than $9,800 annually, not counting the many other great benefits. When 
you're up at 57,000 feet, you REALLY see the wotld 1 
FIND YOURSELF IN THE UNITED STATES AIR FORCE •.. 
Sgt. Phillip Hilton See your Air Force Representative now! 
' 109 E. LaSalle St.-South BeAd, Ind. 46601-Phone: 233-4747 


~------!~L~~:J a.--------------------------------------~~~~~~--------------------------_J 

~-----------~---­

Wednesday, April 25, 1973 the observer 




An Tostal begins tomorrow 
by Bob Quakenbush Staff Reporter 

Annually, An Tostal embraces all of the gaiety of spring and unleashes it upon the Notre Dame campus for a weekend of fun and frolic. This year's celebration begins tomorrow at midday in the dining halls and continues until the end of the Irish Wake in the wee hours of Sunday morning. 
"Gentle Thursday" is tomorrow, and the An Tostal Committee is prayjng for fresh breezes and a fair, blue Indiana sky. However, Patty Lurel, one of "Gentle Thursday's" coordinators, believes one thing is much more important than perfect weather. 
"We need lots of people to turn out for the events," Lurel said, "An Tostal is a lot of fun, but it 
needs  people  to make  it  suc­ 
cessful."  
Her  roommate  and  fellow  

coordinator for "Gentle Thur­sday," Kathy Keyes, adds, "Not only do we want people to turn out but we hope everyone will enter at least one, if not all, of the events we've planned." 
In keeping with the traditional belief that springtime is a time for love, the An Tostal Committee has arranged for a floral delivery service, through which ladies may send tokens of affection to the men of their choice. The deliveries will be made during the noon hour. After that, the merrymaking and shenanigans begin in earnest. 
First, an all-Irish meal will be served in the dining halls. After that, students may proceed to the South Quad to join in the celebration. 
The Kite Flying Spectacle takes off at 1:00 p.m. The entries should be of fine quality since $50 will be awarded to the owner of the "highest flying" kite and the designer of the "most original" kite will win $25. 
On the north side of Alumni Hall at 2:30 p.m., emcee Art Ferranti 
Course additions listed 

The Registrar's Office has an­
another section of Philosophy 241

nounced the addition of four sec­
<Marxism). The sequence num­

tions of courses for the upcoming 
bers and tim~s of the courses are:

Fall semester that have been 
FIN 361, 532163, 10TT12; FIN 361,

added since the publication of the 
532164, 01TT3; FIN 361, 532165,

Course Booklet. The Department 
02TT4; PHIL 241, 412061, 01MWF.

of Finance has added three sec­
All four cdurses are checkmark

tions of Finance 361 <Business 
courses and departmental per­

Condition Analysis), while the 
mission is required for admission.

Philosophy Department has added 
AT••• AUDITORIUM BOX OFFICE 12­5 PM DAILY~..PANDORA's BOOK STORf THE CRYPT RECORDS AND 800 G:IE RK'O~DS .CJ?i.E:::lii!F---.... 
will quiz 32 contestants in the annual Trivia Bowl. The St. Mary's squad will be looking for its first victory ever, so the com­petition should prove fierce. In case of rain, the Trivia Bowl will be held in the Library Auditorium. Athletic rivalry ensues at 4:00 
p.m. behind the Bookstore. The ND-SMC girls' playoff winner will challenge five varsity performers in a Notre Dame basketball classic. The Fighting Irish must wear boxing gloves, so the females plan to turn this handicap to their advantage and capture the championship. 
During the students' dinner, the whirlwind of festivity will move to the North Quad for "Gentle Thursday" evening. "The Ap­palachian Opera," a blues band, will entertain throughout. 
Those who enjoy construction can witness the can-stacking and human pyramid contests scheduled for, respectively, 7:00 
p.m. and 9:30 p.m. 
In between, racing enthusiasts 
may enter or enjoy the Great 
Burlap Sack Race on the west side 
of Breen-Phillips Hall at 8:30p.m. 
"Find Your Mate," a new event, 
promises thrills for participants 
and observers alike. Entering 
couples will be gagged, blind­
foleded, and set loose to find each 
other within a specified time. 
Surprise penalties are planned for 
those who do not "find their 
mates" in time. 
The "Find Your Mate" contest 
has been nicknamed "The Group 
Grope" by the Committee's am­
bassador-at-large, Gregory T. 
Monito, much to the dismay of 
Patty Lurel. 
"It wouldn't be so bad if he'd just 
quit referring to me as The Chief 
Group Groper," Lurel explained. 
The "Find Your Mate" contest is highly recommended for those who want to see if love really is blind. The site of the event is on the quad between Cavanaugh and Breen-
Phillips Halls. The flour-blowing competition at 
10:00 p.m. is the last competitive event of the evening, and will be held just north of the "Find Your Mate" event. 
Throughout the evening, students may vent the last of their winter hostilities at three con­venient locations, for at 8:00 p.m. the dunking booth, pie-throwing booth, and jail open for business. 
Accurate throwing arms should provide many campus poobahs, administrators, and athletes with a watery downfall in the shadow of Breen-Phillips Hall. Farther north, those same arms should cream smiling and unsmiling faces with well-thrown pies. To insure a continuous supply of "targets," "ex-cons" fron the An Tostal Jail will be routed through the pie; throwing booth upon their release (unless they have the 50 cents necessary to "bribe" their way to freedom). 


ATTENTION All SOPHOMORES 
Sophmores may start placing ring orders April 24, 1973 
Hours: 9:00 am to 4:30 pm Mon.-Fri. ·in office on second floor of HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
I! 

Maybe a job isn't what you need. Maybe you need a career. 
And if you've ever been inter­ested in law, that career could be just three months away. 
The Institute for Paralegal Training has placed over400 grad­uate Lawyer's Assistants in over 40 major cities from coast to coast -after just three months of.train­ing in Philadelphia. When you be­come a Lawyer's Assistant, your work will be unlike anything you've ever been exposed to, 
CALL COLLECT 
to Ms. Carol Brown 

(215) 925·0905 
OR WRITE: 
The Institute for Paralegal Training 
Dept. A, 401 Walnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa. 19106 
world leader in quality cycling. Turin­where you'll find racing equipment, tires, tools, and one of the sturdiest lock and chain sets around. Turin Bicycle Coop-now in our 9th season, serving you from our beautiful new store on Clark Street and also in Evanston. 
TWO LOCATIONS: 1932 N. Clark, Chicago 
944-~800 
1027 Davis St., Evanston UN 4-7660 

work which has until now been done exclusively by lawyers. The environment is professional: law firms, banks, and corporate legal departments-and the work is challenging and stimulating with plenty of opportunity for growth. 
Lawyer's Assistants are in such demand that you can actually choose the city in which you want to work. All you have to do is call, toll-free, to find out what a career as a Lawyer's Assistant means to 
you. 




THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Art Ferranti Executive Editor 
Lee Gentine Business Manager 
Jerry Lutkus Editor-In-Chief  Dan Barrett Executive Editor  
I'll EWS:  283-1715  
EDITORIALS:  283-8661  John Kloos  
BUSINESS:  283-7471  Advertising Manager  

Wednesday, April 25, 1973 

Welcome,Mr. Dugan 

Professor Dennis Dugan in tald-ar ov •· the president's position of the .Al !P is accepting the responsibilii': f n· 1:. organization that• is encom.te1 ng a period of minor crisis. Dugan is ­inheriting a body that is debating the questions raised by Professor Goerner's recent refusal of the Sheedy tc;!aching award, and concerned with the problem of women faculty members. But of particular importance, Dugan must work with a faculty that is worried and ­concerned about their position within the structure of University governance. He takes over a faculty which for the most part feels as if their inputs into the University's governance are just empty appearances of faculty participation. 
--Goemer situation··A few weeks ago when Professor Goerner turned down the Sheedy award, he claimed that the admi· nistration was despotic in nature and that the faculty was not being given their proper place within the University's structure. This is a problem with which Dugan must wrestle. If the Goerner refusal is as important as it seems, 
·Dugan must use the situation as a 
rallying point for faculty members, a 
point around which they can build their 
case for University governance power. 
But whatever he does with it, Dugan 
should not allow the issue \to fade into the 
twilight. 
-·Women faculty-Professor Rathburn, retiring president of the AAUP, pointed out last night that in a faculty of over 750 professors, only · one woman professor has tenure and only 5 women stand in a position in which they might attain tenure. Yet, the University lists 45 faculty women, only 14 of which are fulltime. First, why the discrepancy? And second, even though the Universty is slowly making an effort to improve the situation, there remains considerable room for improvement. As president of the AAUP, it will lie within Dugan's sphere of responsibility to have the 
AAUP serve as the University's 
watchdog ,on this problem. 
··Faculty input--Finally, Dugan is presented with a faculty seriously con­cerned with their input into University governance. Particularly, Rathburn has noted that there is a conspicous problem getting fv.culty members to run for the academic council and faculty senate. They feel that the positions are empty, time-consuming, and unrewarding. The University is in a position where they must acknowledge that there is discontent within its faculty and make reasonable attempts to cure it. 
The AAUP hopefully will serve as a forum in the next year... a forum in which problems will be aired, issues argued, and debates encouraged. But beyond serving as a forum, the AAUP must accept the responsibility of channeling the disc.ontent now noticable in the faculty into action. Hopefully: the action will help better the situation for the faculty at Notre Dame. Though they are not in a truly critical position, there 
exists  room  where  they can  push  for  
improvement.  
Jerry Lutkus  


This Time For Sure (?) 

Thursday the students of Notre Dame will get another chance to elect a student body president. Already they have voted in one primary, one run-off, been participants in a declaration of martial law, sat through Constitutions A-D(?), saw a constitution pllssed by the HPC and saw the same constitution rejected by the hall councils. Understandably, most students predict a low turn-out to­morrow. 
This unfortunately will come true. And although it's understandable, it is too bad. 
As it stands today, Notre Dame still has a student government--a goverment in the form that it has existed throughout 
daanesbury 
IJJ61N, MRS. CI1UctJS, 

1"$Re's C:Wt.V CNe Re'Hfl1NIN6 ASPeCTi OF 1116 56Trt.CMeNI­
/ CHIU:J 
wsroov. 
this year. That is, with a president, vice­president, cabinet, and board of com­missioners. Tomorrow, the two top positions and the commissioners will be elected, ·Jow 1turn out or not. 
Last month, the students came out heavily to vote in the run-off indicating to many that interest was still there. Yet, the combination of spring and a tiredness with the apparent foolishness of the whole concept of student government will most likely toll the results of a small turnout 
With luck this will be avoided, but only if the students get out and vote. If you care at all about student goverment, your student fee, and your hall life, get out and vote on Thursday. 
Jerry Lutkus 

TheCiraduateView You And Your Oligarchy 

s.james zafirau 
This commentary is specifically addressed to all graduate students. Before I withdrew recently as a Graduate Student Union presidential candidate and gave my public and formal support to Bill Lavage, I indicated to him that I would continue to press for certain chages and reforms, central of which was the creation of a truly representative and participatory graduate student government. It has long been a tradition in our society for our elected leaders at all levels to be elected through a direct vote by the people who are taxed (and you are being taxed at the rate of two dollars a year by the .. GSU). But currently the GSU officers are being elected indirectly, i.e., by "elected" de­epartmental representatives (do you know who they are in your department?). Presently, GSU members are established by simply presenting themselves at GSU meetings, with only a minimal attempt made to ascertain whether or not they are duly elected by the other students in their department. Consequently, if any of these persons are to be challenged under this framework, such a challenge will have to come from the departmental level student, as you cannot expect most current GSU members to initiate a challenge of themselves. 
Each department, by the way, is entitled to one representative for every twenty students, with a minimum of one representative for every department. With roughly 1400 graduate students on camppus, this would yield approximately 70 GSU representatives. However, a quorum presently is achieved when only one-half of the twenty-eight departments arre represented (thus a total of fourteen persons could carry on official business). Even with this liberal quorum policy, we continually have had difficulty in achieving a quorum; and ad­ditionally, meetings have been held with much irregularity. About the best attendance this year was for the election, and even then less than thirty. of the seventy potentials showed up. I believe that the turnout with a direct election would yield both a greater percent turnout as well as certainly a greater number of voters. This is what I am proposing for next year: a direct election of GSU officers by the entire graduate studnet body, and I simultaniously call on each graduate student in the interim to get his own departmental GSU representation together. Many of your current GSU representatives have dismissed you publically as apathetic. Is this entirely true? Or is it partly a consequence of current structure and communications? I view it also as ,failure of GSU leadership. But only your individual action, at this point, can make a difference. It is clearly up to each of you, and you collectively. Specifically, then, what are your alternatives? 
1. 
Continue to pay the University of Notre Dame billed GSU fee of two dollars per year without asking: What is it for? How is it used? Do I get two dollars beneift from it? Should I have a right to directly influence how it is being used? Are GSU officers representing me or primarily their own special interests? 

2. 
Straighten out your GSU representatives at the departmental level; make sure that they are duly elected; and make them ac­countable to you for attending GSU meetings and representing your interests. 

3. 
Push for a direct election of GSU officers. This prevents a layer of vested-interest bureaucracy from forming between you and the election of the pivotal GSU officers. 

4. 
You can work for a graduate student referendum calling for the dissolution of the current GSU structure (this was suggested to me during pre-election discussions as an option by the newly elected president), and circulate a petition urging a complete reformulation which is more viable, creative, sensitive and responsive to the quality of graduate student life issues at Notre Dame. 

5. 
If all else fails, you can always withhold your two dollars per year from your university payment and have yout own personal party or service activity with it. Simply call the Student Accounts Office. In this way, you can be your own GSU president, legislator, and secretary-treasurer with your two dollars. 


Choose the option you wish, of course. My personal preference is to seriously pursue options two and three, before proceeding with op­tions four or five. The purpose of this article is an educational one. You have a right to know who is representing you, using your money, and in what ways they are doing so. Another aim is to outline the basic options open to you for further input and influence. Although thousands of dollars of your money has been spent by the GSU during its brief existence, to my knowledge this document is the most com­plete communication of the GSU operations to graduate students at large, ever. I have been unable to obtain a currently official copy of the GS.U Constitution and Bylaws (do such exist?). I think that these matters are a shame and I personally believe that if the GSU is worth continuing (and I think that it is) , and if it is justified in assessing each graduate student an annual fee, then it must address itself to these matters. As long as those of us still in the GSU do not truly represent the graduate student body as a whole, we will continue to suffer from a lack of mandate, lack of legitimacy in our Golden Dome directed consultations, and a lack of delivery of services and social events to out constituency of nearly 1400 students. The measure of sincerity and competence of the GSU leadership will be determined in the future, as in the pay, by the extent to which it delivers the goods. 
l)arry trudeau ~:::::::::::::::::::::::::x.:-;;:::::::!:!:!:!:!:!:!:!:!:!!!:!:!:!:!:!:!:!:!:!:!:!:!::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::: 
the observer 
YWR H~811NP 

SINS He WISHeS nite editor: Albert D'Antonio 1lJ R£1111/11 C(}S1D/)Y 
/ OF IHC C!-1/t-P. asst. nite editor: Bill Brink 
pix: Jerome 
day editor: where were you? typists: where were you, Diane? John Flannigan, Howard Halle, Rob Barringer 

'0 
compugraphic: Mike Goetz nite controller: Bob Steinmetz LAST TUESDAY 
NITE!!!!I_!!!!! 
Scoop 


I 

Wednesday, April '25, 1973 the observer 
7 



the power behind nd 
david kaminski 

This is the second of a series on Notre a special room with walls of meters and over our heads there until we need it." Mr. · water through the condensers to reconvert Dame's "night people." warning lights. On a long desk there is a Krauser points to a chart. "This chart is a the steam. That's why we had to build the cqmputer console. rE¥!ord of how much coal we have used in the cooling towers by the lake. The power plant is a cubistic gr:oup of #'This is the control center of all the last 24 hour period. In the spring now when "One summer we got into trouble with the buildings and smoke-stacks on the north­newer buildings' the library,ACC, Flanner you still need the heat, you can see that we lake because it was getting too hot. We 
east corner of campus. During the day it and Grace, the post office, the CCE, the burned 90 tons today. In the coldest parts of never had the problem when we had only a somehow melts in to the rest of the noise Mbrris Inn. From here we can tell how all winter, we can go up as high as 180-200 few generators, but as we had to add more around the quad. But at night it dominates the equipment is working in the buildings, tons." eqpipment, we kept running more hot water the North Quad with its hissing of stacks and see if. adjustments have to be made, or see into the lake. During the winter, we really its whining of machines. While Notre if something has to be fixed. If the problem don't have to worry about the tempetature, 
fuels vary

.Dame sleeps, the power plant continues to is minor, w...e can type instructions into the bUt during the summer, we have to send the grind away. computer console and correct the situation. water through\the cooling towers before we ~r. Bob Krauser is one of the controllers Or else, ifthe problem is serious, we have to .But coal is not their only fuel. They can let it back into the lake." of the night. The power plant works "swing call ~omeone in to fix it right away." also burn natural gas or heating oil, and 
anycombination of the three that they want.
shift" which means that the employees "We only use the natural gas sometimes. 25 years of change
rotate through the three shifts of the day. So every third week, Mr. Krauser and his crew how it all works The Gas Company usually gives us a call of only two other men work llp.m. to 7a.m., when theyhave surplus gas and then we As must be obvious, Bob Krauser has seen keeping the campus alive through the hours Most of the systems are automatic, with take what they have at a discounted price. a lot of changes in 25 years, not only to his of the night. reserve supplies of water and fuel ready to Otherwise, with gas as scarce as it is, we job but to Notre Dame. 
cut in when needed. Because of this, only have to go with coal most of the time." "One thing, 25 years ago you wouldn't be three men are needed at any one time to ';l'he boilers heat well water into steam sitting here talking to me. You'd be back in 
memories keep the plant running. that then not only heats the buildings but your room with the lights out!" he com­"I'm what youcall the watch engineer. I ments with a smile.
also turns the generators for electricity apd runs the air conditioning.
Mr. Krauser has been at the power plant have an assistant and the two of us have to "I remember years ago when a student 25 years next May. He remembers: check the charts and meters on all the "You can see on these charts that right did something wrong they just told him to "Back in 1948, the building was a lot machines to see if they are running right. now we are making 4200 kilowatts of our pack his bags and go. You had to be dressed smaller, it has been added on to several The third man working is the fireman for own electricity while we are buying 1900 to go to dinner in the evening. You had to 
from the outside. ·

times. We had only four boilers for heat. the boilers." sign in and out of the dorms. There were no electrical generators and no The fireman pushes along a moveable "Back when Fr. Cavanaugh was air conditioning." chute from one boiler to another. He's cooling towers president, if they told you that you couldn't 
Now the building houses an unending dumping coal from a storage tank in the go the football game, you just couldn't go." maze of boilers, steam turbines, water ceiling. "In the winter, we can use the1steam that "But, you know, the world keeps going softners, steam tunnels, and computer "The coal is unloaded from the freight runs the turbine generators to thim heat the and things keep changing. Even I'm monitoring equipment. c~rs outside and dumped onto a bucket buildings on campus, but then when we changing!" He slaps himself and laughs. 
In anewer section (\f thP. building there is conveyor. The conveyor brings the coal up don't need the heat, we have to run lake "I'm fatter than I used to be!" 

Little Biq Screen. 

the nation, news~ and nonsense 
ferranli 

There are a few decent specials in this program and a good example of what TV Bloom. Veteran \actor Melvyn Douglas is card spending spree when he finds that he is upcoming and brief week and no promising can do. cast as the boy's grandfather. soon going to die. Then he is told that he is movies if you can find any time to watch any Tonight David Niven narrates "The Intermezzo, which was reviewed last going to live. Maybe he lives, but the movie TV with registration and crannning. The Forbidden Desert of the Danakil" on 22 at week, airs tonight with Ingrid Bergman in does not. For masochists everywhere, it American Experience, the semi-regular eight. It concerns the Danakil Desert in her 1939 American movie debut with Leslie airs at nine on 22. American produced historical series hosted Ethiopia at the Southern end of the Red Howard. This soapo()pera type film con­by Chet Huntley, will make its second Sea. Also tonight on 16 at 8:30 Brandon Cruz cerns a love triangle among a young .pianist, 
five presidents speak

showing Friday at nine on 16. Entitled ("The Courtship of Eddie's Father") plays a concert violinist, and the violinist's wife. "Strange and Terrible Times," Ralph a Jewish waif in search of the reasons The suds flow at 8:30 tonight on 28. CBS presents a news special ThursdayBellamy helps to narrate sequences on the behind his father's death in a special Friday, Jerry Lewis stars in Hook, Line, entitled "Five Presidents on the Revolution, the Civil, War, and the saluting Israel's 25th anniversary. Topol and Sinker, a 1969 farce that is not. This Presidency" and is hosted by Eric Severeid. Depression. If the first of the series is (Fiddler on the Roof ) tries to help the boy time Lewis plays on the old "Run For Your The hour long special beginning at nine on anything to go by, this will be an excellent and his mother played by actress Claire Life" theme in which he goes on a credit 22 features film clips as far back as 1952 
about the views of the last five presidents on 
their office. For those who cannot 
remember who the last five presidents are, 
here is the list; Truman, Eisenhower, 
Kennedy, Johnson, and Nixon. Take note, 
there may be a quiz later, kiddies. 
Following that at ten Charles Kuralt shows 
150 commercial excerpts to highlight a 
report on the advertising industry in. 
"CBS Reports." 
Not to be outdone, ABC at 11:30 presents a special on "The ABC Wide World of En­tertainment" on how news is gathered and reported. Howard K. Smith and Harry Reasoner provide the narration and analysis. All in all, Thursday is a good night for news and public affairs programs. 
Saturday evening Candice Bergen, Joanna Pettet, Shirley Knight, and Joan Hackett star in The Group, based on the best selling novel. This hall-soap -half legitimate drams concerns the escapades of eight Vassar graduates who manage to keep in touch. The movie begins at nine on 16. 
Finally, "The ABC Sunday Night Movie" presents lMy Son John with Helen Hayes and Van Heflin. Robert Walker plays a Communist and the film centers on mom­my's (Miss Hayes) attempts to cope with the situation. The story may have had promise then 0952) but it lacks in any relevance today. The only reason that one might have to watch this somewhat overly­patriotic fihn'would be to see the three ~reat actors in it, both men now deceased. 
The trivia Bowl: I still ~eed a few more Notre Dame people and alot more SMC students for the event tomorrow. So, if 
•

you\ just want to have some fun for an hour, call me tonight at.8545 or at the paper (1715) so I can sign you up and give you the particulars. No entry exam is g1ven. The bowl is tomorrow at 2:30 by Alumni Hall on the South Quad. 
In the event of rain, the Trivia Bowl will be held Friday at 2:30 pm in the Library Auditorium. 
Trivia Quiz Who is Helen Hayes' actor son? -­...Q-aAM !!UA\UH, UO SWU!ffi.M UUQ ~tf!AUfd .\pua.un;, '.mlfl.IV:»ew sawer .JaMsuy 

l 
8 the observer Wednesday, April 25, 1973 

Anderson write on Watergate 
The memos and logs that reportedly told the senate Headquarters. time of the bugging 1JJ>eration as 
In grand jury testimony resulted from the wiretaps were Watergate investigating com­Liddy, who was sentenced to 
testifying that he a had b~n published last week by Jack An­handles with great care in the mittee earlier this month that he a more than six years in jail for his telephoned by ~.Yagruder shortlyderson, the syndicated columnist, Republican Re-election Com­was convinced that a at least one role in the bugging operation, has after news of the break-in became Sally Harmony, a secretary for for mittee, sources said, under the copy of the neatly retyped insistently refused to talk to public and told to remove a blue 
G. Gordon Liddy , head of the code name "gemstone." wiretap logs went to the office of federal investigators. file from his office. Reisner later Watergate team, was quoted as a She testified, according to An­John Mitchell. The former At­But the grand jury has learned said under questioning that the file saying testifying that she had derson's column, that she used torney General was in charge of that Jeb Stuart Magruder, a for­was marked "Gemstone". typed up reports on the con­secret special stationary for the Nixon's re-election campaign mer ranking White House and re­versations of Democratic Party retyping job that had the word during the three weeks-from late election Committee official, also officials. "Gemstone:• printed on the top. May to June 17--that the tap was in had access to the "Gemstom~. 
McCord, whose decisionto turn operation. Mitchell left the cam­reports.
It or purposes of concealing the 

state's evidence last month was a paign two weeks after the Anderson's column quoted
illegal source of the information, 

major factor in initiating the Watergate team was arrested quoted Robert Rej11ner,
the words "wiretap" or bugging" 

mushrooming Whitehouse scandal, inside Democratic Magruder's top assistaQl ·at the 
are customarily not used. 





Facultytalkon Collegiate Seminar 
said that they would take seminar 
would make the class discussions whether you feel the "Great
<continued from page 41 

even if it was not a required
more relevant for the members of Books" are relevant or not; and
perience." 

each section. course. The group who had whether or not it should be a
Bree also felt that a small per­

favorable opinions of the seminar, required course, it looks like themanent core of faculty was 
In talking with these students however, made up less than one­Collegiate Seminar Program will 
necessary for the continuityof the 

there was also a discontented fourth of those questioned and remain the way it is for some time
program and for buildingon 

noted among them concerning the although this figure cannot be to come.

criterion. 

instructors of Collegiate Seminar. applied to the overall program, all "If we have to consider the official those interviewed felt that thoseStudent opinion 
reading list", said one student," students who were favorable to the why aren't the instructors at least seminar were in a definite Collegiate Seminar is a topic familiar with the works. Many minority. which draws many and varied times the instructor really isn't as 
The future of Collegiate
comments from Arts and Letters well versed in the work as some students. According to tis original members of the class. If an in­
Seminar

purpose the seminar is supposed to structor is supposed to lead the discussion he or she should have According to Professor Osterle
be interdisciplinary. Students feel, 

however, that Collegiate Seminar some previous background con­there seems to be change in store deals mainly with theological and cerning the reading list." for Collegiate Seminar in the philisophical themes. This makes future. The Academic Council and 
seminar seem just like another Along the same lines of com­the College of Arts and Letters are plaint is fact seminar changing
requirement in those areas and the that considereing the 
because of the narrowing trend in instructors do not keep proper academic course of studies from 2­control of the discussion. Student 2 < where a student majors in his
education exactly· what students 

felt that seminars have a tendancy junior and senior years) to 1-2-1 don't seem to want is another to descend to the level of "bull <where the major is studied in the required course that is not part of . sessions " because the instructors sophamore and junior years.) In their major. 
this case, Collegiate SeminarAnother complaint that students 
are not doing their job right. would be moved to either the fresh­have with the seminar is the use of "Many people use the seminar", man or senior years and mightthe so-ealled "Great Books". In said a student,"as a soap-box to possibly be only a one-semeste rquestioning students from several voice their own ideas without ever requirement. Osterle felt that the sections of the program they all 
really listening to what everyone senior year option would be best in else has to say." According to the this case because seminar wouldseemed willing to admit that 
students, the instructors should still retain the same basid pur­certain basic questions for recognize this type of student and pose: to draw together all thediscussion are raised by those seek 1ess comment from them and student's studies in the sameworks on the reading Jist. Theydid 
more from other members of their discussion type course. sections. Another change that might
point out, however, that just as happen, according to Osterle, is aProfessor Musial said, different Of course not all the studentsin more non-verbal approach to themen look at the questions different 

the seminar were in disagreement basic questions of the seminar.
ways at different times. Because 

with the course. Some felt that the Because of the risig cost ofof this the students felt that a mere traditional concept of the paperbacks, movies might beup to date analysis of the 
Collegiate Seminar was wor­substituted into the curriculum. If questions eould be found in more thwhile and would be of help to tthis were to ahppen, however, contemoCJrarv works and this them in their later life. Some even Osterle felt this would be too great a deviation from the traditional study of the "Great Books" and, in this case, Osterle questioned
CILA ~ne~nbers plan 

wherher to continue the seminar. But whether you agree with the purpose of the course or not:
su~n~ner projects 
continued from page 3) 
~BOAC 
in the South Bend community. A 
of Fr. Francisco Morales, pastor ot 
nursmg home visitation program 
under 24 yrs old?
Ciudad Altimirano and coordinator 
has been carried out this year and 
of the Mexico project for the past
will hopefully be continued this 
ten years. Morales will arrive on 
FLY. BOAC
fall. CILA members have also 
campus Thursday and stay for one
been involved in a Saturday 
week. During this time he will 
YOUTH FARE TO
moring project involving local 
meet with the CILA members
Chicano children. Aimed at 
preparing to work in Mexico and 
EUROPE
recreational and educational 
speak to classes interested in
activities, This Saturday the 
Mexico and Latin America.
project members will take thirty­
any city, any time
Any Notre .Dame or St. Mary's
five children to visit the Chicago 

call Clarke -283-8810
students that are interested in 


Yesterday's nuns led a cloistered life. When they ventured out, it was two-by-two. Their roles were traditional and within chnrch in­stitutions. 
Things have changed. The world. 
The Church. The roles women 
play. 
Yet for one order, these changes are hardly apparent. Ever since the Dominican Sisters of the Sick Poor were founded in 1876, they have been engaged in pastoral ministry_ They have always been flexible, Always self-motivated. Always had freedom. Why'? By the very nature of their work. 
The Dominican Sisters of the Sick Poor give free nursing care to the needy in their own homes. They travel alone by bus or by subway. Or by car. Or on foot. And their day doesn't end at five o'clock. 
Each case presents a different problem: whether it is bringing physical or spiritual comfort, keeping a family together, coun­seling or bridging the gap be­tween 110Cial agencies, we bring the love and devotion of Christ. We are in direct contact with the people we care for. 

You see. we don't have to be lib­ESCAPE SERVICE* 
FRIDAY 
erated. We are. Lv. Notre Dame Circle 
For more information on the Dominkan Sisters of the Sick
4:55 Poor write to:Ar. Chicago 6:10 Sister Marguerite Mitche~,

SUNDAY RETURN 
Vocation Director 

SERVICE* 
Room 106 Lv. Chicago 4:00 
Mariandale, Ossining, Ar. Notre Dame 7:30 
New York 10561 Lv. Chicago 7:30 Ar. Notre Dame 10:25 
Ca II Tom Boyer 234-8259 
GO GREYHOUND 
~ and leave the driving to u.. 
Meseum of Science and Industry. 

CILA and its work are encouraged 
!====---===:::d_~~~l!!!!!!!!!!!!!!.____ 

Any students interested in par­to contact Mke Maguire (3501), Joeticipating in this Saturday's trip Marino (8374) or Mary Beckmanand that can help provide tran­(4287). Notre Dame students in­sportation are encouraged to call terested in working in HrarlemMary Mullaney (232-o882) for mor this summer are urged to contact 






FREE CONCERT
einformation. 
Mike O'Hare 0509) immediately.
ClLA is also sponsoring the visit 
THE NOTRE DAME-SAINT MARY'S THEATRE 

FRIDAY -8:30 YOU'RE A GOOD MAN CHARLIE BROWN STEPAN CENTER 
Clark-Gesner's musical entertainment based on the comic 

strip Peanuts by Charles M. Schultz with Epic Recording Artists 
April 26,27,28,29 at 8:30 pm May 3,4,5,6 at 8:30 pm 
ELF 
April 28 and May 5 at 2:30pm Students-Faculty-Staff $2.00 
sponsored by HPC and SU
Reservations: 284-4176 




: !· -~ 
.· Wednesday, April 25, 1973 the observer 
~-'­
·SPEND 270 D~VS ON AC~MPUS LIKE NO OTHER IN THE WORLD= VOUR JUNIOR YEAR IN NEW VORl~ ... ~T NEW VORl~ UNI\IERSITY. 
Music, art, poetry, Pierpont Morgan Library, theater, museums, 36th Street, corner of Madi­libraries, archives, Wall son Avenue. Rare books
Carnegie Hall, 154 West 
Street, the United and changing exhibits of 
Metropolitan Museum of art are splendidly displayed 
Provincetown Playhouse, 57th Street. Concerts, 
Nations, nationality Art, Fifth Avenue between 
MacDougal Street between recitals, and performances in this former homesite 
80th and 84th Streets Celli Irish FesUval of Song fashioned like an elegantneighborhoods, 3rd &4th Streets. Home 
Greenwich Village, film of Ruffino Opera Museum of the City 01and Dance, Cathedral High Italian palazzo and television studios-­
Public Theater, Lafayette School, 560 Lexington New York, Fifth Avenue at
Broadway: The central 
New York City Is an 104th Street
Street near Astor Place. Avenue, 50th to 51st Streets theater district Is located In 
unmatched extension of National Academy of De-
Birthplace of Hair; home of midtown along the streetsNew York City Center, 131

the educational New York Shakespeare sign, Fifth Avenue between West 55th Street. Dance 
that run East and West experience at New York Festival; also has film 89th and 90th Streets 
through Times Square 
and music recitals 

University. anthology Soho: The area south of Solomon R. Guggenheim
Houston Street where a Madison Square Garden 
American Institute of CPA's, Museum, Fifth Avenue be-St. Mark's-ln-the-Bowery, Junior Year In New York 
colony of artists lives and and The Felt Forum, be­
666 Fifth Avenue, Room tween 88th and 89th Second Avenue at 10th
study Is available at works in the spacious lofts. tween 32nd and 33 Streets
Street. Poetry, drama, and 403. Library offers books on Streets. The building itself a
NYU's Washington There are half a dozen and Seventh and Eighth
music in church accounting, taxation and work of art by Frank Floyd 
Square Center, In Arts galleries here, too. 
rare books on accounting Avenues. Concerts, cJr-Wrightand Science, Business St. Mark's Playhouse, cuses, rallys, sports, and 
Federal Hall Museum, The broadcasting network

and Public Administration, Second Avenue between other mass events. Home Whitney Museum of 
comer Wall and Nassau libraries. By appointment. 

and Education. For 1Oth and 11th Streets of the New York Knicker-American Art, Madison
Streets. Site of many 

ABC at 1926 Broadway near Avenue at 75th Street.
detailed information, clip bockers and the New York 
Sheridan Square Playhouse, historic colonial events­

64th; CBS at 524 W. 57th Exhibits of American art-
Rangersthe coupon and mail Seventh Avenue near Grove Washington's inauguration, 
Street; and NBC at 30 ists who are still livingtoday. Street Peter Zenger Trial, etc. Rockefeller Plaza The United Nations, First 
Lincoln Center, Broadway Avenue between 42nd andSouth Street Seaport, Fulton

Theater De Lys, Christo-Donnell Library, 53rd Street, and Amsterdam Avenue, 
47th Streets
Street and Annex on Pier between 62nd Street and
pher Street near Hudson between Fifth Avenue and 
16 facing John Street. Central Park, 59th Street to 66th Street. Home of the 
Street Avenue of the Americas. 
Museum plus live events 110th Street between Fifth New York Philharmonic 
Noted for books on theA sample of New York. Village Gate, corner of 
such as folk dancing and Avenue and Central Park orchestra, the New York
theater, has a regularBleecker and Thompson 
singing of sea chanteys West City Ballet, the Metropolitan
Actors Playhouse, Seventh schedule of films, concerts
Streets Avenue between Grove and and lectures
Fulton Street Fish Market, Martha Graham School of Opera, and the New York City Opera 
Washington Square Fulton and South Streets. Contemporary Dance, 63rd
Barrow Streets Hargail Music Press, 28
Methodist Church, West Starts at 4 a.m. Street near Second Avenue 
Amato Opera Theater, West 38th Street. Recorders American Museum of Nat-
Fourth Street between 

.Chinatown: The Bowery, and recorder music their Council for Inter-American ural History, Central ParkBowery and Second Street Washington Square and Mulberry and Canal Streets specialty-the only music Relations, Park Avenue at West, 77th Street to 81st Avenue of the Americas.
Bill Baird Puppet Theater, Street. Nearly twelve acres
enclose the tiny enclave. shop of its kind in the 68th Street. Exhibits, Barrow Street near Bedford of exhibits
Music, dance, drama, film 

The Chinese Museum is at country music Street Dauber and Pine Bookshop, 7 Molt Street. The Eastern 
Museum of Contemporary El Museo del Barrio, Com-The Cloisters, Fort Tryon Eighth Street Playhouse, 32 Park, west of Broadway
Fifth Avenue near 13th States Buddhist Temple is 

Crafts. r ~est 53rd Street, munity School, Distri~t Four,
Street. From plain and at 64 Mott Street. The 

West Eighth Street between near 190th Street. Recrea­
between Fifth Avenue and 206 ~-116th Street used books to rare and old Chinese New Year is cele-
Fifth Avenue and Avenue of lion of the medieval world 
Avenue of the Americas 
books brated the first day of the French Institute, 60th 
the Americas new moon between January Museum of EarlY American Street near Madison. Lee-Hispanic Society of Amer-
Eighth Street Bookshop, 

Elgin, Eighth Avenue, near 21 and February 19 Folk Arts, West 53rd Street tures, movies, library-lea, Broadway between 
West Eighth Street. Schol­

17th Street. Film festivals 155th Street and 156th
between Fifth Avenue and English and Frencharly, difficult-to-find books, Financial District: between 
and old favorites Street. Goya's "Duchess of 
Avenue of the Americas
extensive paperback col-the Battery and Fulton Frick Collection, 70th 
Alba," works by El Greco,Henry Street Settlement 

lection Street and between Pearl Museum of Modern Art, Street at Fifth Avenue. 
Velasquez, Zubarian andPlayhouse, Grand Street and Greenwich Streets. The West 53rd Street, between Baronial mansion of an

Orientalia, Fourth Avenue Ribera Judson Memorial Church, 
New York Stock Exchange, Fifth Avenue and Avenue American industrialist, 
near 10th Street. Eastern 

Washington Square South. the American Stock Ex-of the Americas. Galleries, housing a private art col-Museum of the American 
thought 

change, the Commodity Ex-gardens, fountains-the lection, recitals Indian, Broadway and 155th
Avant garde art, poetry, and dance Little Italy:· Bounded changes, the large insur-very latest art, plus historic Stret1t. Largest museum In 
Goethe House, Fifth Avenue
roughly by Houston and ance companies and the films the world devoted to the 
between 82nd and 83rd
Mercer Arts Center, Mercer Canal Streets, the Bowery head offices of the leading North American Indians 
Museum of Primitive Art, Streets. Run by the FederalStreet, between 3rd and and Lafayette Street. banks of the U.S. are here. 
54th Street between Fifth Republic of Germany; fea-Riverside Museum, 310 Bleecker Streets. Theaters Salamis and warm fresh The Federal Reserve lo-Avenue and Avenue of the tures exhibits, displays and Riverside Drive. Fe.atures 
named for Lorraine Hans­bread; fresh fruit and vege-cated here keeps the gold 
lectures Tibetan and Oriental art
Americas

berry, Bernard Shaw, Oscar tables and seafood. The reserves of various coun-Wilde, Bertold Brecht, and festivals of San Antonio in tries of the world in vaults New York Cultural c-enter, Jewish Museum, Fifth Ave-New York Historical So-Sean O'Casey. The Blue the late spring and San built into the rock which is 2 Columbus Circle. Variety nue at the corner of 92nd ciety, Central Park West at Room Cabaret has jazz Genaro in the early fall. Manhattan Island of exhibits and events Street 77th Street 


10 the observer Wednesday, April 25, 1973 
IIDDHnlllllllllmllmm•mrWIHIIII..liiWWiiiiiiiiiiiiUII-IIIIIIIIftiiiiiiA 
Candidates givestatementsl Muscular Dystrophy ! concernin~.,..~~,~~!"'..~la~!?M~.~s I Fund Film I 
The three tickets for SBP-SBVP with the University toward the 5 § 
submitted the following statements eSsTt abRiiEsh.emtn ot a campus FOOD ~=-§=_ 
WSND namesnewmanager' 
about their platforms. They are listed in alphabetical order by the presidential candidates last name. 
E'tienne-Belslnger 

For the first time in years, student government has produ ced some tangible evidence of its existence. It has moved away from complicated political machinery, thereby facillitating its operations. Among its accomplishments, with the 
direction  of  H-man  as  Vice-President  
are:  
The  establishment  of  a  STATE  

LOBBY to fight for student rights on a state-wide level ) including the lowering of the drinking age ) ; H-man is serving as Secretary of this organization. 
A SURPLUS of student government funds. After years of debt-ridden budgets, a surplus will be a welcome relief. This surplus was made possible by a careful revision of the bookkeeping system as well as a thoughtfully­prepared budgdt. 
A collection of INTEREST monies on the funds kept for student government by the administration. This a~ounted to over $1,000 and was the tir~l time er collected( 
With this carefullY reguated budget, more money was made availableto the STUDENT UNION. We think they've been able fo put on one of the best programs in years with these funds. 
The constuction of a BUS STOP near to grotto (to be started in the near future). 
The improvements make by HICCOUP lo help relieve some of the hassles of advanced registration. 
The sponsoring of the DANCE MARATHON which will hopefully /raise thousands of dollars for Muscular Dystrophy. 
The revision of the CO-EX dinner ticket distirbution 
The establishment of a PARTY SERVICE. 
An effective and well-managed OMBUDSMAN SERVICE. 
by john CulUgan Staff Reporter 

Rich Flanagan has been named WSND station manager for the upcoming year. 
Kevin O'Neill, noted for his "oldie shows" has been appointed the AM station programmer and Michael Bridgeman will take charge of the same position on WSND FM. 
Flanagan says that he is ex­tremely happy with the way that the AM station has been run. He and O'Neill are pleased with the present programming format used at the station. He places the music format somewhere in the middle of hard rock and the top 40, which he says has something for everybody. O'Neill plans to continue using this format for the music sections of the programming. 
O'Neill also expresses interest in having more live broadcasts than before. He would like to broadcast live from An Tostal and during the dance marathon for muscular dystrophy, along with broad­casting during freshman orien­tation next fall. 
The addition of a weekly ~ports 
interview show with top Notre 
Dame athletes as guest stars is 
also in their plans for next 
semester. 
The broadcasts themselves 
should also be improved because of 
better facilities and new equip­
ment. A new studio that has 
already been bull~ and ~tter 
broadcasting equipment should improve the tone ofthe shows. 
Flanagan has high hopes for the FM station. The station, which is an educational and fine arts station, is dedicated to public broadcasting. The shows that are aired are aimed at South Bend's interests and community broad­casting. 
A public station deserves more time than a student is able to give it, said Flanagan. He believes that his new director, Mike Brid!leman, 

Rich Flanaaan• Ia new manager 
ABBEY IS HAPPY 
to announce our new budget motel In 
South Bend. Lovely rooms at low cost. $10.00 single $12.50 double Friendly happy atmosphere·· 
Send your friends and relatives 

. 
ABBEY INNS OF AMERICA 52825 U.S. 31 N 1 
011( • a.
South Bend, Indiana 46637 
(219) 272-9000 . '-"­
@
(next to the Boars Head) 
0 

R~P~~~~~~~fiON ons ~~ ~~~~! 
Councils. 
First Campus -wide/ co-ordinated FRESMHMAN ORIENTATION PROGRAM. 
We can make no promises about next year except that we will continue to respond to the student interests and so the best job we are able to do. 
Gering-O'Brien 
I. STUDENT RIGHTS 
1. 
Procedural Protection Clause 

2. 
TrinbihOtsyrf Ombudsman Service 

3. 
PubIic Defender of the Studetn Body. 


II. OFF CAMPUS 
1. 
Permanent Housing Committee 

2. 
Equal Per Student Funding. 

3. 
Food Co-Op for on and off campus 

4. 
Shuttle study 

5. 
Biweekly Newsletter (by request) 


Ill. SOCIAL 
1. 
Low-Pressure Gathering Places (coffeehouses, etc.) 

2. 
Close relationship with St. Mary's 

3. 
Minorities Cultural House 

4. 
Student I Union Social Services Expanded 


IV. GUARANTEED FUNDING AMENDMENT 
1. Halls, off-campus, student union 
V. HPC CHAIRMAN INTO STUDENT GOVERNMENT . 
VI. HEALTH SERVICES 
1. 
Dentist and Gynecologist 

2. 
Meidcal Information made avaialbae 

3. 
Referral Services 

4. 
Transportation to South Bend Medical Facilities 


will be able to handle it. The main focus of the new WSND station manager is to keep the station operating. Since it is public broadcasting, money is needed to maintain broadcasting. Their fund-raising drive that is now gl'eing on has been more suc­cessful than Flanagan had thouJdlt 
it would be, but the station still needs more contributions to im­prove its broadcasts. He added that it is almost impossible to ever reach perfection in public broadcasting. 
A new studio is in the process of being built for the station. This and the switch from sending the waves by telephone from O'Shaughnessy to their tran­smitter and instead sending them by light beams should improve the reception in the area. 
Flanagan expressed the desire to keep the station, both AM and FM, running smoothly. He added that by the time he leaves he hopes that AM is running as smooth as it is now and that FM is still in action. 
Present proposals! in works that we will continue: 5 Bus Shelter, = 
Lowering of Age of Majority, ~ 
Food Co-op, ­
La Fortune Renovation, 5§Summer Jobs. 
Future \proposals we will implement: Access to your own files, Research and Development 
1. Examination of Counseling 
2. Public Place tor Private Gatherings sponsored 'by responsible 
parties 
3. Examination of recruitng, solicitng and advertising. 
Academic 
1. 
Stressing of the importance of Fresh­man Year = 

2. 
Consideration of University 


~ 
Requirements· 
= 
3. Press for No Grade Option 
$ 
4. Availability pt Audio Visual and computer center· 
== 
S. Investigate Appointments to Com­= 
§
mittees and Responsibilities 
~ 
Off ComparativeCampus Price lists (Lada §====
1. 
co­operation) 

2. 
Complete Housing List = 

3. 
Urge a .change in policy toward co-:: 


~~er~~~s~ ~~~s~; off campus student ~ affais director = 
5. 
Laundry Service of o.c. = 

6. 
Shuttle Serivce 5 


~ 

.llllllllftiiiiiUIUUUIW11111.11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111i
Hall Life Special Arangement Manage (room for guest) and Co-ex Program and 
Ticket Arrangemsnets Information Sheets Pipleine to Ombudsman Service 
Ombudsman Information sheets (perhaps bookelt) expanded service hours Lost and Found pickup Greater Studetn Participation and 
division of responsbilities 
Public Relations Action Line 
Judicial Board Campus Party Policy Guidelines. 

1723 So.. lend Ave. Jim -class of •a 
Chuck -cll'ss of ·w 

Eufl by--Friday afternoon tor weekend-Kegs 272-9800 *An Tostal Specials* BHUKOV only 899 

OR VODKA
KARLOF 112 gallon (limit 163 per customer) 
Budweiser -the KING of beers 
I 
less than 285 for 12 pk ice cold 
(no limit on Budweiser Special with this ad), ! · .ft6w do we· do it? 
•..we weren't Business majors! 
:: 
= 

' ' 

Le Ma n s I I §§
_ 

& 
TONIGHT = 
i 
= 
5 
== 
= 
5 

Eng. Aud. 7& 10 p.m. ! 
adm. $1 IE = 
!iii 

Student Union is paying for film. I
= 

All your admission is for Muscular 5 
5 
Dystrophy. i 

........ 4"•• 4. ~ .. 4 ..... ~"' .. -..:.,.·.),.A.,, .... -...... -... -~~. .................. •.• ........ "' 
--...... -....... ---..... --~ ~ • -••• ~ " ......... -.. -;a.-..-...t. ............. . 
----------·--·-------------· 

Wednesday, April 25, 1973 
the observer 1 1 

Private universities in jeopardy 
by Tim Truesdell Staff Reporter 
"The private university is in for the fight of its life!" Phrases such as these are in constant circulation among college administrators and seem to paint a dismal protrait of higher education over the next ten years. 
The nucleus of the problem appears to be two-fold: a critical reduction of research grants and more importantly, the blatant neglect of the federal government toward the private institution. These factors are having and will ha've a pervasive influence upon internal functions such as ad­missions standards and financial aid. 
Within the next decade, survival of independent and sectarian colleges is in serious jeopardy. "I think you are going to see a lot of private universities disappear or change drastically," explained Dan Saracino, assistant director of admissions for Notre Dame, "the buildings will still exist but all of a sudden you'll discover they have become state institutions." 
Saracino cited two possible universities which in future years may be confronted with this situation. "Schools such as the University of Detroit or the University of Dayton have had a great turnover and are only at­tracting students from the im­mediate area," he observed, "Eventually the relig.ous orders will be pulling out." 
In a desperate action to avoid financial trouble, many in­stitutions will be forced to merge or consolidate with neighboring schools. Saracino noted that the present University of Detroit will simply become another branch of Wayne State University, located just four blocks away. 
Governmental Neglect 
Concern has been expressed at Notre Dame as well as other in­dependent universities about the passivity of the Nixon Ad­ministration toward private education. University President Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh and members of the university's Foundation Office are attempting to keep up with trends in the national legislature but indications point to an inactive attitude by President Nixon. "Nixon's lack of interest in the private university is of particular significance to the problem," Saracino remarked. 
"His feeling is basically let everyone go to their local com­munity college." 
Curriculum Cuts 
A recent study by the Carnegie Commission has revealed that in order to "withstand the storm of the 70's" institutions must in­tensify their efforts to remove specialized courses and programs from the curriculum. The report suggested that private universities consolidate or eliminate courses which require additional faculty and material expense. 
Curriculum "conservation" can attain both positive and negative effects however. In the case of Notre Dame, the American Studies program may be an example of a positive approach. Instead of a journalism department offering only newswriting and reporting sequences, the American Studies major has an opportunity to secure a more well-rounded or diverse education from experience in the American culture and com­munication. On the negative side however, some may argue that the elimination of certain courses endangers a student's area of concentration by denying specialization in a chosen field. 
Rather than reduce the curriculum, some schools have chosen to increase tuition and student expenses. Certain private college administrators are of the conviction that a considerable increase in tuition would create a surplus that could be allocated for scholarships. This type of action is more popular among Ivy League or wealthier schools where a large percentage of their clientele can afford such a price hike. Stanford University, for example, has recently raised tuiti2n ten percent. 
Research Curtailed The funding of research facilities within an independent institution has also been drastically reduced. Conservative attitudes toward research projects hav been for­mulated mainly out of necessity. "Today many schools are faced with the problem of the empty research building," Saracino revealed, "Even one of the Ivy L­eague schools was forced to close a $1.5 million Center for the Study of Non-Vi_olence." "What happens," he claimed, "is that universities build and staff these centers and discover that they must start draining their own resources for its maintenance." The school is 
COURSF.S FOR NON-ENGINEERING MAJORS 

The College of Engineering is offering several cOurses in the Fall, 1973 Semester, wttich are designed for the non-engineering major. 
AE 213: SPACE TE:CH!IOLOCY -APPLICATIONS AND EFFECTS ON OUR SOCIETY 
Dr. Ingram. Seq. No. 110100, ll !IWF (3-0-3) 
A survey of the space sciences with a discussion in the appro­priate cont~xt of progress that has been made and its impact on Society. Considerv.tion of future investigations. 
CE 213: ~ffit! AND HIS EIIVIRQ!~·lENT 
Dr. Tenney, Seq. No. 7070700, 1 Mi·IF (3-0-3) 
This course is d<:!si1fled to introduce the student to the inter­action bcn.nca techaolo~y (;::.an) and na-::ure, and to emphasize the problems when this bal~nced. interaction is disturbed. 
EE 213: H>lll liND BI·:ERGY -All llLTER!IATIVE TO THE ATOM 
Dr. Berry, Seq. No. 78llOO, 2 TT 4 (3-0-3) 
A survey of the energy requirements-past, present, and projected future. A discussion of the various sources of energy necessary for man's e}:istencc and the potent-ial decisions for preservation of the species. 
EG 2ll: DITP.ODUCTIOII TO COMPUTING, I 
Seq. No. 701060, 1 M\~ (3-0-3) 

Introduction to computer progranuning using batch and remote terminal processing Algorithms, the Fortran and Basic programming languages, solution of numerical and non-numerical problems. 
(This course will also be offered during the 1973 Swruner Session, Seq. No. 702001, 8 M'lWI"F.) 
ME 213: IMPACT OF NUCLEAR ENERGY ON OUR SOCIETY 
Dr. Lucey, Seq. No. 740100, 2 HWF (3-0-3) 
Prerequisites: 1 year of college math, 1 semester of any science. An oveNiC\•1 of the sources and uses of nuclear energy for those who will not. specialize in the area. Biological effects of radiation and socioeconomic considerations are treated. 
'!'he follO\ring courses in the offerings of the .Department of Architecture are open to all stu::lents, unless otherwise specified. . 
Arch 144: DESIGN TIIEORY 
Seq. No. 730460 , 9MWF (3-0-3) 
'!'he at-Pa of physical an:l intel'-disciplinary relationships as it affects rn.:1n and hi" environment will be cxplorc:l. Study of basic design theory fro;,l \·:hich \·~!'k in l.:::..:i~~n is :!..::·JclcrtJeU: ':Jill constitute a methcdical study of th~ cffc:c;; of rnatcl•ials, cli~te, an;J orientation upon architecture and man's a!'tifacts. · 
Arch Sill: nm:Oll!JCTIO;: '!'0 r.mrr.C::IC DCSIGH 
Seq. llo. 733[.00, 1 Tu S (3-0-3) 
Open to Juniors, seniors and graduate students· an introduction to the conc<'Pt of onvironic conditions as the discipli~e which must influence dcsi')n. 
usually able to support the center for about two years and then is compelled toshutdown operations. 
Budget and Admission 
Admission quotas to the private institutions have also come under the careful scrutiny of budget and endowment figures. At Notre Dame, the Quota on Admissions Committee, consisting of the Registrar, the Dean of Ad­ministration and Business officers, 
instructs the Admissions Com­
mittee on the variable freshman 
enrollment size. The Registrar 
advises members mainly about 
student-faculty ratios while 
business officers attempt to 
"balance the books." If sufficient 
funds are not available to ac­
comodate an incoming class 
admissions standards are directly 
affected by the financial status. 
Standards for selection to an independent college remain in question. Several eastern schools have been considering the ex­clusion of College Board scores as a criterion for admission. Bowdoin. College in Brunswick, Maine, for example, dropped the test requirements and are now investigating personal attributes such as motivation and "staying power." In an interview with ­College Management magazine Richard W. Moll, director of ad: misssions, emphasized the im­portance of the personal element. "Today's high school seniors resent being judged by cold grades, cold rank in class, and­most of all-by cold standardized test sc.ores." 
Most educators agree that the "personal element" should be used and evaluated but not as a single criterion. Many private univer­sities are making a sincere effort to employ all considerations, both academic and personal, before rendering their decision. 
In evaluating the problems of private institutions, it should be understood that finances alone are not the entire solution to strengthening higher education although it does play a vital role.' As in the case of admissions standards, one criterion is not enough for total achievement and the same applies when con­templating the shortcomings of a university. In the words of the Carnegie Report, "Much will depend upon an institution's ability to realize what they can do and can do well and stay within those guidelines. 



MAY GRADUATES: 
ASSOCIATES PERSONNEL SERVICES was recently for­med as a subsidiary company of ASSOCIATES COR­PORATION OF NORTH AMERICA to better service the ever-increasing need of professional personnel seeking College Graduates to enter superb management training programs. Currently we are representing several large companies seeking professionals in the following fields· ACCOUNTING, DATA PROCESSING, SALES, AD: MINISTRATION, AND TECHNICAL AREAS. 
Now is the time to start giving serious thought regarding 
your future. We ask that you let our Professional Staff of Personnel ~nalysts assists and guide you in this very im­por~ant period. If you are currently seeking to make a desirable career move, please call or come in cofidence to: 
ASSOCIATES PERSONNEL SERVICES 
1030 E. Jefferson Blvd. 
South Bend Ind. 46604 
219-233-2132 
A licenced employment agency 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 
Wanted: A fourth student for Sept. at 810 Sorin. Call 233-9110. 
Good typist would like to type student papers. Call 232-7227. 
Want to buy non-electric portable typewriter. Nick Meindl 233-1460. 
Need ride to Loyola Univ. for Dental Boards April 27. Call 1312. 
Riders needed to NYC or Conn. Leaving Thursday, May 3rd a.m. 
Call Dave 3679. -------~ 
Ride needed from Kent State 
(Exit 13 Ohio) to Notre Dame on May 3 or 4. Call John ·8810. 
Room for 2 in house for summer. Near campus. 288-4297. 
Riders wanted to Kent, Ohio­Friday, April 27--Ken 8810. 
FOR SALE 
Campeau is giving away chicks, cheap. Call 232-7143 
Sansui 4000 pr Advent Spkrs. $375, 894A Eric. 
For Sale· Ping-Pong table. Very good condition, reasonable price. Please call 233-3893. 
For Sale: VIVITAR 135 mm Telephoto lens, 2.8 with case. (fits Nikon mounts) $50. Call Rick 8284. 
For  Sale:  3 eight  week  Irish  
Setter  pups.  AKC  Reg.,  5464  
Marsha.  

67 Grand Prix auto trans, best offer, clea·n Rob 8518. 
Good Buy Football spikes, posters, fishnet swag lamp, hotplate. Rob 8518. 
Craig R-to-R tape deck•. plus 15 tapes · sao.oo. 288-4297. 
FOR RENT 
Houses and apartments available for June or September. can Mr. Humbarg~. 234-9364. 
Off campus room tor girls . close to N.D. ..:an Mrs. Cooper 272-3004. 

Want privacy? Rooms $40 mo. 233-1329. ' 
2 Bedr part furn house, 1414 N. Fremont, Avail. May 14, 1 yr., Air cond, bsmt, fed. back yd, $150 mo. 
+ elec., Dog OK, 234-4835 after 5. 
Three bedroom house and four bedroom house available for June or September. Call Mr. Singer 234-5830. 
FOR RENT 4 or 5 man house for summer. Great location. Call 2:i2-8530 or 283-8728. 
House for rent, spacious, 10 rooms, 1'12 baths, 7 minutes from campus. Very reasonable. 1142 Lincoln Way East, So. Bend. Call 288-4148. 
PERSONALS 
Miss Tastee Freeze Long distance call tonight DQ 
The Horns of 3-C are having an encounter session Friday, 9:00 pm. Inquire at 1641. Women only. 
NOTICES 
BE HERE NOW by Baba Ram Dass is here now at Pandora's. 233-2342. 
SAVE YOUR BREAD. Placement Bureau ordered American Collegiate summer Employment Guide on March 28. Booklet has not yet arrived, but when it does you can use it. Bureau currently has available other directories and listings of summer domestic and overseas jobs. Ask for them at Room 222, Adm_in. Bldg. 
Summer storage reasonable prices, 6 years experience with NO. New bldg. High-dry. cari pick up-deliver to hall. Reserve early. Mrs. Cooper 272-3004.. 
Morrissey Loan Fund closing April 27. Pay all outstanding loans. All unpaid debts will be turned over to Student Accounts with extra $5.00 charge. 
Sale . great savings used + New titles. Help Pandora's BOoks spring clean. 602 N. St. Louis at South Bend Ave; 
Will do typing: Term papers, manuscripts, etc. Call: 233-6909. 
PITT CLUB ELECTIONS Elections for the offices of president, vice-presidnet secretary and treasurer will be held in Room C-1, LaFortune Amphitheater (first floor) Sunday April 29 at 8:00 pm. All those wishing to run for office should submit their name to Jim 8371 Rich 1209 or Jeanne 519.C befor~ Sunday. Anyone from Pittsburgh and the surrounding area is eligible to run. Only membership card holders will be eligible to vote. 
23 year old inmate would greatly appreciate a pen-pal. Please write: Bobby Glacken 13487.C P.O. Box 69 London, Ohio 43240. 
USED BOOK SALE. Hundreds of used, ·out-of-print and shopworn books. Wednesday, April 25th at Notre Dame Bookstore Concourse and Thursday, April 26th at St. Mary's Library or, if raining, in Madeleva Hall. PARNASSUS­ON-WHEELS, Mobile Used Bookshop. 
City of Gods, $2.95 now $1.9-4; Whole Earth Catalogue, $5.00 now $3.43; Kerouac: A Biog., $7.95 now $4.95; Natural Food Cookbook, $3.95 now $2.60; Graphic Works of Escher, $3.95 now S2.60; Con­noisseor's Handbook of Marl iuana, $3.50 now $2.45; Jonathon Livingston Seagull, $1.50 now $.98; East-West Spiritual Guide, $1.00 now $.64; Tolkein Trilogy, $2.85 now $1.86; Art of Sensual Massage, $3.95 now 
$2.60. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Dark green-colored paperback. SUMMER EMPLOYMENT DIRECTORY OF THE UNITED STATES·· 1973 EDITION. Also, separate beige-colored SUP­
PLEMENT to the same. P.ubliShed by National Directory 
Service. Finders and or users please return items to Placement 
Bureau. Ohter students are asking for them. 

12 
the observer 






Irish find few runs, fewer wins 
Xavier in their only home ap­but with two out, Dan Damiani's by Stan W a I or pearance to date, and will look to grounder looded like a sure-fire 

Notre Dame took advantage of do the same to the Broncos. The rally killer. Smith couldn't find the pleasant springtime skies during all-time series between the clube is handle though, and both runners Easter vacation to record six away dead even at 41 wins apiece with scored for the Michigan triumph. contests onto their season log, but one tie. 
Michigan 3, ND 2just as the sunshine softened These are the details of Spring 

previously chilly days, it also Trip II: This was an even tougher loss, as
weakened the run-scoring ability captain Bob Roemer had tied theof coach Jake Kline's hitters. Michigan 3, ND 1 score with a two-out single in theDespite a respectable .259 team top of the seventh. The Wolves wonbatting average, Irish sluggers Rick Eich bounced back from a it later via Brian Balaze's game­produced only eight runs in the poor performance against Illinois ending safety off senior Edthree twinbills, good for just a pair State to four-hit the ·Wolverines, 
of victories. The pitching of but was done in by shortstop Jim Hrabcsak. 
sophomore lefty Mike Swallow Smith's twelfth error ofthe season. Dick Nussbaum opened the contest with a double down the left 
saved those triumphs, Hl over Tom Rettinger's two-out double field line, and Mark SchmitzFerris State and 3-2 past Nor­put1VIichigan up in the first, but the 
singled him home an out later.

thwestern. Irish tied it in the third on That run held up through fourThe Irish now return to the Tom Hansen's single, an error, and innings, with starter Kevin Fan­friendly comfines of Cartier Rield back-to-back sacrifices by Bob 
ning twice pitching out of bases­this afternoon for a doubleheader Roemer and Mark Schmitz. 

loaded jams.

with Western Michigan (game A walk to Kettinger and Bil Ferris State 14, ND o··time is 1 pml. Kline's Korps Meyer's base hit put runners at A 25-5 club a year ago, Ferrisearlier swept ,a doubleheader from second and third an inning later. 
ND's netters enjoy 7-2 holiday 
by John Fineran exciting 6-3 wm to even their recorded the only wins in the Notre season total. The Irish needed two Dame column. victories in doubles to win the

The Notre Dame tennis squad That afternoon, disaster struck. found the weather 'and their play match and got them from the John While the Irish had no trouble taking a turn for the better over the Carrico-Brandon Walsh'and Reilly disposing of Kalamazoo, Rick past week and a half. With an Slager could_ not dispose of
brother tandems. excellent 7-2 mark during that Saturday morning, April 14th, defensive linemen at football time, the • Irish netters finally was a different story. Cincinnati's practice. The frosh sensation from succeeded in putting breathing strong netmen wallopped the Irish Columbus, Ohio suffered a room between their victory and 7-2 to drop the season mark to 5-6. shoulder his
separation in rightloss columns, now standing 11-7. The Bearcats' John Peckskamp arm and was lost to both the Irish 
The victory skein !started on a avenged an earlier defeat in the football and tennis squads for the good note against a surprisingly fall Central Collegiate Tourney spring. 

strong Indiana State squad on versus Chris Kane, and showed Slager had compiled a 3-4 mark inApril 13th. At home for the first why he is considered one to the top his limited tour of duty for Coachtime since the Michigan disaster, players in the Midwest. Rick Tom Fallon, but only because he
the 4-5 Irish fought State to an Sla~er and Brandon Walsh desired to put more concentration on his football career. Still, Fallon was happy with the former Ohio state champion and expects big things in the future from him. 
Again stymied at .500, Notre Dame took to the road against four opponents. Although the Indiana match was postponed because of rain <the Hoosiers plan to meet the Irish at the Courtney Tennis Center May 6th>, the netters had no problems with the other three­Ohio State, Purdue, and Bowling Green--handling each by identical 8-1 margins. 
A strong South Carolina squad awaited the Irish return to Notre Dame on Easter Sunday. With victories from only captain Rob Schefter, John Carrico, and the Reilly brothers, Notre Dame went down to defeat the to the Gamecocks, 6-3. 
The team quickly returned to tis winning ways with a 7-2 win over Toledo. The Irish clinched the match after the singles com­petition, winning five of six. Chris Kane fought back to win a well­deserved 4-6, 6-4, 6-2 match over Lars Linden of Sweden in number one singles while Carrico, Walsh, Schefter, and Paul Reilly also added victories. 
Yesterday afternoon at Court­ney, the team met a strong Nor­thwestern team (now 11-4) and notched still another victory after the singles competition. The Reilly brothers, Carrico, Walsh, and Schetter all had victories while Kane suffered another tough defeat, losing two tie-breakers for 

A new method of determining reterees and one linesman. The the only blemish as the Irish league standings and a new of­referees will call penalties and the jumped to a 5-1 lead, winning 6-3. ficiating system were the major linesman, who will be a local The record now stands at 11-7, a 
developments at the Western person in each league city, will be vast improvement in only thirteen 
Collegiate Hockey Association responsible for calling offsides. days. <WCHA> meetings in Minneapolis In place of selecting a WCHA Brandon Walsh currently leads
recently. commissioner an executive the team with. an excellent ledger
committee was selected to ad­
The point system used for the at the number-four singles. The
minister the league's business.

past two seasons, whereby a team junior from Kingston, Jamaica has
That executive committee will

would ~et two or four points for a been Fallon's most consistent pla­
consist of Professor Frank

victor" ending on how many yer so far, yet captain Rob
Remington, faculty representative 

times the teams played each other, Schefter is waiting just below him 
from Wisconsin; Professor John

has now been abandoned. This at the 13-5 mark.
Fuzak, faculty representative at

coming season the WCHA will use Besides the Indiana match,
Michigan State; Burt Smith,

the point system which prevails Notre Dame has two meets this
athletic director at Michigan State 

throughout most hockey circles, season left at home, both this
and Professor Max Schultze,

which is two points for a win and weekend. Big Ten opponents
faculty representative at Min­

one for a tie regardless of how Michigan State (Courtney Tennisnesota.
many times the teams play each Center on Satrurday afternoon atother. It was also agreed at the The WCHA playoff dates ap­1:00 p.m.) and Iowa, a certain
meetings that all teams in the proved for next season are contender for the conference title, 
WCHA will play 28 league games, Tuesday and Wednesday March 5-6 some
will provide the Irish with14 home and 14 away. and either Friday and Saturday good matches. The HawkeyeThe officiating system to be used March 8-9 or Saturday and Sunday encounter is scheduled for Sundaythis season will consist of two March 9-10. 

morning at 10:00 a.m. 


came out swinging for the fences Northwestern 11, ND 1 as six of the first seven hitters belted Irish ace Mike Riddell for It started as a a pitcher's duel safeties. First baseman Jim WQod between frosh Mitch Stoltz (2-o, barely missed a grand-slam 0.00 in better than 18 innings) and homer, but the Bulldogs didn't the Wildcats' Kim Girkins, with really need it. Northwestern getting the early 
Riddell allowed half the runs in edge via a walk, a sacrifice, and five inning of duty, and freshman Andy Spreitzer's single. Bob Stratta gave up the other half 
The bottom half of thein the sixth. 

third inning proved to be ND'sND 1, Ferris State 0 downfall as neither Stoltz nor Mark Pittman could find the plate at theMike Swallow calmly headed for right time. The Wildcats sent 15the mound and said, "I'm going to men to the plate in that framebeat these·farmers."Beat them is and the first 1·= nine in a rowjust what the Ft. Yates, ND 

scored.

resident did, scattering two hits throughout the first six frames and 
ND3 Northwestern2getting a big play from Roemer in Swallow did the job again,the seventh picking up his second straightMike Kovachevich and Terry victory with last inning relief help Kirkpatrick opened Ferris' last at­from Riddell.

bats with singles three and. four against Swallow. Pinch batter The Wildcats held a 2-1 lead Gary Witkowski then came up to 
entering the seventh frame · via bunt the runners ahead, but he second and fourth inning two-out missed the first pitch, and Roemer singles by George Graves and fired to Jim Smith at second t?, pick Mitch Nelson, respectively. Notre off pinch runner Joe Alfuri. Dame rallied though as Pat • 
Coleman opened the frame with aA first inning run that looked like double to deep right 

it would mean nothing won the game for ND. Nussbaum opened 
Nussbaum singled home thewith a walk, and Pete Schmidt tying score, and Pete Schmidt beat singled one out alter. Loser Dennsi out a bunt to put runners at firstPlodzik then made the mistake and second. Mark Schmitz thenthat killed him, bouncing a wild got the game-winner, a line shot

pitch past catcher to score 
safety to right.

Nussbaum. 
'Sweet 16' selected 
Third-round action in Bookstore featuring Hawk Stevens and Mike Hysteria saw the field whittled Hinga, both vterans of last year's down to the "Sweet Sixteen", with tournament, as well as a contest some major showdowns scheduled between Firin, Myron and the Fat 
for this afternoon at the Bookstore Asses and a strong Marksmen courts. Topping today's card is a squad. clash between the-31 Club, led by The Hogs, composed largely of Irish quarterback Tom Clements, the 1973 Interhall championshipand Upchuck and the Vomits, 
team from Holy Cross Hall, dropped an overtime decision to the Rock Jocks, 22-20. In another

Sailors win 
upset, the Cardiac Five, without the services of star Frank Allocco, defeated a solid UCDH quintet by a

OSUraces 
21-19 count. The Notre Dame Sailing team 
While self-appointed experst ofedged out host Ohio State to place Bookstore Basketball have notfirst out of a fleet of 12 schools last 

agreed upon a favorite to winweekend in a 16-race series that Friday's final the consensus is that was abbreviated by high winds and the Final Four will probablyco_nsist thunderstorms. The victory of the Vermin, Firin' Myron andcontinued the winning ways of the the Fat Asses, The 31 Club and The Irish sailors, who now have two Cardiac Five, although strongwins in major regattas, and have challenges will be mounted bynever failed to finish at least third Upchuck and the Vomits, thein fleets averaging from 10 to 12 Howard Hall Hoards and the Rock schools. 

Jocks. 

In Saturday's competitition The Schedule: Wednesday 25 April Notre Dame had to come form '73 (times not yet announced) behind as Ohio State jumped to an Wounded Knees vs. Vermin, early lead. Kevin Hoyt had a fine lnsex vs. Badin Exiles <Bracket 1 series sailing A-division with his semis) crews Mike Dooley and Rob Hoards vs. Rock Jocks, Albergo, and found the brisk winds Marksmen vs. Firin, Myron and large fleet to his liking as he Bracket 2 semis) notched two first place finishes and T-Plague vs. Canucks, Cardiac was closing in on low-point skipper Five vs. Joe's Bar (Bracket 3 honors ·as the days racing ended. semis) 
31 Club vs. Upchucks, Brazil

Meanwhile, in B-division, Jon Nuts vs. RA's et al <Bracket 4Makielski, sailing with crews 
semis)

Debbie Lynch and Fidele Galey, Finals in each bracket will befinished high up in the first three held Thursday afternoon, with theraces, but fell back when he hit a winners playing agian that·mark in the fourth. Neil Barht evening. The two finalists will
then stepped in and palced con­sistently near the top, including meet Friday at 4:00 pm for the 
one first finish. Boolstore Hysteria title.
place These Bookstore Basketball-third-roundfinished combined, with those of 
scores:

Hoyt, proved sufficient to take a At Stepan Centertwo point lead over Ohio State, and Badin Exiles 21, Kahead Geezers a comfortable lead over the other 
11

ten schools at the end of Saturdays Insex 30, Wormwood Scrubs 28racing. 
(overtime)On Sunday morning strong Wounded Knees 21, Alice Cooper Sotuthwest winds whipped the Fan Club, Inc. 13 waters at Leatherlips Yacht Club Vermin 21, Zephers 9where the regatta was held. The Firin' Myron and the Fat AssesND sailors set out to defend their 21, (Steve Manyak's Team) 15lead, but were frustrated when no Marksmen 21, Dillon Turkeys 19be because

aces could sailed Howard Hall Hoards 21, J3P2 8
boats kept breaking down in the Rock Jocks 22, Hogs 20 (over-stormy winds. Finally, reports of a 
time)

squall line forced a cancellation of At the Bookstore
the rest of the reces with Notre Canucks 21, Schmucks 18Dame still on top. 
31 Club 21, City Bounds 15Next weekend Notre Dame will Upchuck and the Vomits 21,be represented by two skippers in Diamond Leg 7the monotypes, to be held at T-Piague 21, Heavy Bailers 17Belmont Harbvor in Chicago. In Brazil Nuts 21, Blond Bombers 16these races theskipper will single­Joe's Bar and Grill 21, Checkeredhand their boats, using no crew. 

Demons 11The rest of theteam will compete in Cardiac Five 21, UCDH 19 a regular regatta at Northwestern. 

R~ 's et al 21, Mufugs 19 




