
.­
On The Inside 
LeHers to the Editor ... page 4 TV's movies ... page 5 


Vol. VIII, No. 19 serving the notre dame -sf. mary's community 
Homecoming Weekend tix !I on sale today at LaFortune 
Whether cheerleading or playing, the Irish cast a gloomy shadow over Purdue loyalists on Saturday afternoon. See the whole story on page 8. (Staff photo by Joe 


Barnard escapes; found in Phoenix 
by Zenon Bidzinski Investigative Reporter 

Police in Phoenix, Arizona, found Notre Dame student, Thomas J. Barnard, victim of an alleged kidnapping Friday afternoon at the base of a small mountain in northern Phoenix. According to a spokesman, Barnard escaped from his abductor while the two were encamped on the mountain. 
Phoenix police said they were called to investigate a report of a sick person at Squaw Peak Park where they reported finding Barnard in a dazed condition, half unconscious from a fall he took running down the mountain. 
Police further reported taking Barnard toLincoln Hospital in Phoenix, where he was examined and treated for exhaustion. A hospital spokesman said Barnard was released Saturday to relatives. He then returned to his home at 5361h W. Mishawaka Ave., Mishawaka, late Saturday afternoon, according to Mishawaka Police. 
Barnard, 23, a graduate student in the MBAprogramat Notre Dame, would not speak to reporters this weekend. The FBI has forbidden the release of any in­formation while their investigation is still pending. Barnard, however, has promised The Observer an interview later this week. 
Barnard disappeared Tuesday, Sept. 25, after an apparent robbery of his home. The FBI had been unable to trace his whereabouts until the Phoenix police found Barnard Friday. 
According to the spokesman, the FBI apparently lost track of Barnard at O'Hare. They were not aware that Bar­nard's abductor forced him to buy two sets of plane tickets, one to Colorado Springs and one to Phoenix, Arizona. 
Continental Airlines had told the FBI tnat Barnard's tickets were used, thus sending them on a wild 
Tickets go on sale today for the October 27 Homecoming Weekend. Concert tickets for the Carpenters performance will be sold at the Student Union Ticket Office, second floor of the LaFortune Student Center, from 1 p.m. until5 p.m. and at the Athletic and Convocation Center from 9 
a.m. to 5 p.m. 

Homecoming dance and football tickets for the Southern Cal game will be sold together in a package for $22 starting at 7 
p.m. in the Fiesta Lounge. A limit of one package per student has been set by the Student Union. 
There will be only 240 packages available on a first-come first-serve basis. After these packages are sold out, dance tickets will be able to be purchasedseperately. 
Raymond) The Fiesta Lounge will open at 1 p.m. today at which time two lines will be goose chase to Colorado. Meanwhile Barnard and his abductor flew to Phoenix on American Airlines flight No. 617. 

The ND student told Phoenix police that he had been in Phoenix since Tuesday night, being encamped on the mountain since Wednesday afternoon until Friday, when he escaped. He apparently saw his chance to flee around noon when he made a run for park visitors at the base of the slope. 
Tte FBI, however, has still not con­firmed the kidnapping. An FBI official at the Indianapolis Bureau told the Observer late Saturday afternoon that they still weren't sure of the facts. 
Asked if the case was almost closed, he replied, "We don't know if it's been opened yet. We're not sure there even was a kidnapping." He added, however, that the FBI is still searching for Barnard's alleged abductor. 
Monday, October 1, 1973 
Service station owners threaten nationwide lockup 
Las Vegas, Nev.--1Pumps at some 200,000 in­
dependent gasoline stations in the United States may 
be locked up this week in a nationwide protest of price 
controls, according to representatives of Independent 
Gasoline Station Owners. 

Leaders of gasoline retail associations in the western 
states met here Sunday with eastern independent 
owner groups representing thousands of stations. 
"The people from the east came here ready to go. 
They came here with the authority to act and to just 
sound us out in the western states," said one 
representative from the San Francisco area. 
"It looks like there will be a nationwide lockup 
starting next Friday," said a California retail 
association executive who asked that his name not be 
used. Formal announcements of the lockout were 
expected to begin Monday through a series of news 
conferences in various states. 
Commandore Reid, president of the Gasoline 
Retaliers Association of Southern California, said he 
would call a news conference for 1 p.m. Monday in Los 
Angeles. 

"We are still under phase IV controls and they are as 
illegal as hell," said a spokesman representing several 
hundred California service stations. "We want to end 
the P.hase IV controls." 

Representatives from Chicago and "points east" 
attended the day long meeting here Sunday as well as 
representatives from the Gasline Retail Association of 
Southern California, California Service Station, the 
International Service Station association, Greater Los 
Angeles chapters of retail associations, and delegates 
from Tucson, Phoenix, Reno, Las Vegas and Colorado. 
Independent station owners complained the Cost of 
Living Council lift of certain ceilings Friday at in­
dependent stations was wiped out Saturday when 
wholesalers increased prices. 
The Cost of living Council is supposed to have a 30 
day notice on increases at the wholesale level. Some 
independent station owners speculated the Council was 
aware the wholesale price increase was on the way 
when the ceiling was lifted Friday on independent 
gasoline stations. · 
Under terms of the cost of living decision Friday, independent stations were permitted to set gasoline prices at whatever they were May 15 plus any in­creases in cost from producers through Sept. 28. 
Retail association representatives said the closures this Friday would be aimed at the Cost of Living Council and Congress in hopes legislation would be approved to dismantle the Cost of Livng Council. 
"If they can deal with a national sports blackout in three days they can save this country from shutdown if they want to," said one representative . 
formed, one for students wanting the 
package and one for those desiring concert 
tickets. 
The Ombudsman's office in conjunction with the Student Union Comptroller has set some rules for students waiting in line for tickets. Upon entering the Lounge at 1 p.m., Union members will attempt to insure the position of those who arrived first. Entrance will be from the south end of the Fiesta .Lounge. Anyone in the Lounge before the doors open will be ejected. 
The saving of spots in line for short periods of time will be tolerated. However no student will be able to save a place in line for a large number of other students or for one student for a long period of time. Stand ins are permissible on a one-to-one basis. 
~~~~~====~th~e~o~b~=s-e=~=r=v=e~-:~~~~M~o~n~d~ay~,;Oc;;to;b;e~r=1,;;19=7J;_______________________________________________________________________~ 
~ 
I 
~ 
t 
' • 
I 
' 
' 

warld briefs 
WASHINGTON-UPI-The Justice Department, reaffirming faith in its chief criminal investigator, continues presentation of evidence to a grand jury this week relating to kickback allegations against Vice President Spiron T. Agnew. The vice president, who in his Los Angeles speech Saturday criticized as "unprofessional and malicious and otHrageous" the conduct of Assistant Attorney General Henry E. Petersen, meantime remained in seclusion Sunday at the home of his friend Frank Sinatra in Pa1m ,Springs, Calif. 
WASHINGTON -Senate military spending critics prepared for several crucial budge cutting votes on the $21 billion weapons 'luthorization bill Monday as Democrats complained of heavier than usual Pentagon pressure to keep the bill intact. 
DETROIT -Detroit's striking school teachers must tell a judge Monday why they flouted hisorderto return to their classrooms and in Indiana school board officials have some courtroom explaining to do. The scheduled court appearances were the latest actions in teachers' strikes across the nation that have kept about 350,000 children out of school since early September. 
an campus taday 
1:30-4:30 p.m. --summer job ap­plications accepted through nov. 1, placement bureau, rom. 222 admin. bldg. 
7 & 10 pm --shakespeare film series, "taming of the shrew" (elizabeth taylor and richard burton), eng. aud. no charge. 
7:30 pm --meeting, m.e.c.h.a., bjtsement of Ia fortune 
BLOO p.m.--meeting, celtic society, international room, basement of Iafortune ~tudent center 
' 

Committ~e studies honor system 
hy Paul Young Staff Reporter 

Why hasn't the honor system been able to work at Notre Dame? The Committee on Honor may have the answers in a report submitted to Provost Fr. James T. Burtchaell. C.S.C., yesterday. Professor Edward Vasta, Chairman of the Committee on Campus Honor explained, "Our committee was trying to get down to the codes of conduct that operate at Notre Dame, to the values that govern our behavior, and even the principles that underlie those values." 
The Committee on Campus Honor was created by Fr. Burtchaell at the request of the Faculty of Af­fairs Committee of the Board of Trustees, in the spring of 1972. It is a follow-up committee to a com­mittee appointed by the Faculty Senate, whose purpose was to decide whether the honor system could be restored after its ter­mination in 1970. The report of this committee discouraged such an attempt. 
The purpose of the Committee on Honor, however, is althogether different from that of the Faculty Senate committee. The Com­mittee on Honor has not decided whether the honor system should 
ND chosen center 

lor teacher exams 
The University of Notre Dame has been designated as a test center for National Teacher Examinations on November 10, according to Dr. Peter P. Grande, assistant dean of the Freshman Year of Studies Program. 
College seniors and teachers applying for certification, as well as thosP. seeking positions in school systems requiring the examination, are eligible to take the tests. The examinations are designed to assess cognitive knowledge and understanding in professional education, general education and subject-field specilaization. 
Additional information and registration forms may be ob­tained from Grande's office or by application to Educational Testing Service, Box 911, Princeton, N.J. 08540. 
The Observer is PUbliShed dally during the college semester except vacations by the stuaents of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions mav be purchased for S8 per semester ($14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 
be restored but has attempted to Vasta noted: "We must submit discover the reasons why it has our report to Fr. Burtachell, but failed in the past. we assume it will be made public 
·These theoretical resasons were so we feel we are addressing the presented to Fr. Burtachell entire community (Notre yesterday and will presumbably be Dame.") passed on to the Faculty of Affairs, The honor system itself may never Committee in a meeting on Oc­be reinstated but through the tober 25. The report, however, is committees' investigations a d­not addressed to these individuals eeper insight may be gained into alone as committee chairman the community at Notre Dame 
GENTLEMEN,  NEED a gentle reminder that it's TIME for that 8:00 (or 9: 00) class? Is it worth a$. 10 daily phone call? Then let yourself-WAKE UP TO MISTY P.O. BOX 465, Notre Dame, IN 46556 $2 per month (20 calls)  
SEND  PHONE NUMBER lsi NAME ONLY {if you prefer) TIME (each day MON-FRI & CLASS you wish to be awakened for)  
HURRY  OCTOBER 1st is MONDAY! (Offer limited to 1st SO ND guys)  


DVMOclOTH MARKING NOW TAPE Reg. $1.25... Now$.6 
ON 
VINYL lABEliNG TAP

SALE 

Reg. $1.25 ... now $.65

AT THE 
HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
which abolished such an honor result of our work we wanted also system, was Vasta's feeling. On to focus the attention of the this point Professor Vasta campus on the kind of life that is proposed "As a kind of natural special here at Notre Dame." 
----~--~------------~~~~-­
MONDAY 
T.V. football kickoff 8-9 draft beer 25~ 
TUESDAY 
pool tournament 
WEDNESDAY 
1

ladies drinks /:z price after 8 p.m. 
THE RED DOOR CLUB 
110% N. Main 
r 

.,. .,. ... . .... . . .. -. . . ... ... . ... . .
~ ~ 


Monday, October 1, 1973 the observer 

O'Brien wins chess tourney 
lly Janet Longfellow 
Staff Reporter 

Winner of the Second Annual Notre Dame Chess Tournament was Padrig O'Brien;. a graduate student in Mathematics, from Ireland. Padrig swept 1 five straight games to capture first place. 
Chris Kohlmiller broke a four­way tie for second place through a competition comparison of each of the tied players. Third and fourth place trophies were awarded to fini~hers: Jerry Mondello and Steven Osborne, respectively. 
The Notre Dame Chess club 

awardee trophy and cash prizes to 
winners in the tournament , 
directed by Frank Pillote. Fourth 
place winner, Steve ~sbo_rne, 
helped"Pillote m the orgamzahon. 
He commented, ''Pillote directed it 
for the second year in a row and 
again did a very fine job." 
Osborne expressed thanks for the Obst>rver~s help in the tour­nament. Speaking on behalf of the chess team he commented, "We thank the Observer for buying the trophies· and prizes for us." 
The Chess Club will be holding 

further tournaments in La Fortune 
Rathskellar as well as traveling to 
other schools. ·The first scheduled 
' \ 


Second Place Winner Chris Kohlmiller (left) congratulates Chess Champ Padrig O'Brien (right) on his victory in this year's tourney. (Staff photo by Joe Raymond). 
away tournament will be held in November at Indiana University at Bloomington. All interested students ~nd faculty are invited to attend any of the Chess Club meetings Wednesday nights at 7:30, in Room 327 of the 1\fath 
Building. Chess Tournament Top Ten standings are as follows: 

When are the USC ticket packages going ou sale? 
The USC ticket packages will go on sale tonight <Monday-October 1) starting at 7 p.m. at the Student Union Ticket Office which is located in the Fiesta Lounge. The package deal will include two USC general admission tickets and a ticket for two to the Homecoming Party which is scheduled for 9 p.m. Friday ni,ght, October 26, in Stepan Center. The price of 
thepacka~e is $22.00 and there will only 240 packages available with a first come first serve basis in effect. Also,it should be noted that there will be a one package per person limit with aND student ID required so that the person qualifies for the package. The Fiesta Lounge should be open by 1 p.m. for those who wish to get in line early ,to ensure themselves of getting a USC package. 
Who can I see about registering a complaint against an Assistant Rector? 
You can t~lk to your Hall Rector if you wish to clear the air on a matter concerning an Assistant Rector and feel it can be done to your satisfaction within your Hall. If it is of a more important or personal nature, your best bet is to get in touch with Rev. Flanigan in the Student Mfairs Office or if you wish to remain anonymous talk to your Hall President or The Om­budsman Service. They will listen to your complaint and see that something is worked out. 
w 
D 

reservations 
284-4176
J-

Student-Faculty ND-5MCStaff
SMC 

$1.50
THEATRE 
SEASON 1973-74 


O'Brien 5-{) Kohlmiller 4-1 Mondello 4-1 Osborne 4-1 Masnovi 4-1 Antolino 31,'2·11/2 Hannah 31h-ll/2 Picciana 31h-1% Parillo 3lfz-llfz 

Organ recital set 
for Sacred Heart 

Sue Henderson Seid, assistant professor of music, will present an organ recital at 8:15 p.m. Wed­nesday <Oct. 3) in Sacred Heart Church on the Notre Dame cam­pus. The free concert is the second in the music department series, which features Notre Dame music faculty members. 
The program will include "Sonata number 1" by Mendelssohn, "Fantasi, K. 594" by Mozart, "Prelude and Fugue in Eb Major" by Back, and a new piece "Recitative, Interlogue, and Torque" by David D. Isele, Notre Dame assistant professor of music. 
Where do MONY men go? 
As far as their own ability and initiative take them. 
What "Rocky"BIeier has done is above average. But the opportunities are still there. It's up to you. If you have What it takes, we have the career--both in sales, and sales management. The insurance industry is growing and at MONY we've branched into mutual funds and variable annuities. 
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS: 
Sound interesting? 
Then contact Jack 
Mays, manager, South 
Bend, 515 St. Joseph 
Bank Building. Phone 
233-3104 or interview 
with us on campus Oct. 
10th or Dec. 6th. 

M0NY
MUTUAL OF NEW VORK The~ lM tnsurance eo.np."Y Of Hew YOrit 
OCT. 10 & DEC. 6 
Attention stu ents: the student union ticket office is now handling tickets for all ACC sponsored events. This includes such things as hockey games, concerts, 
and special events such as the ice capades. 
Office hours are: 11 :30 a.m.-5:00 p.m. 
mon. thru fri. 
--------~~-------------------........ .... 
the observer Monday, October 1, 1973 
Marching Rallies 

Dear Editor, 
The N?tre Dame Marching Band would hke to thank the student body for their courtesy and cooperation in making the Nor­thwtstern Pep Rally and Halftime Show a success. Due to the responsibility demonstrated by those students attending the rally the officers and staff of the Band have decided to return to the tradition of marching around both the North and South quads for 
future pep rallies. We hope for continued support and cooperation from the student body. 
Sincerely, The Officers of the Notre Dame Band 
Concert Law 

Dear Sirs: 
As this is my first year at Notre Dame, Saturday night was my first chance to see a live concert at the ACC. As Chuck Berry took the stage I tried to account for the large number of empty seats. It didn't seem possible that they couldn't draw a full house from the campus along with the ticket holders from South Bend. It soon became obvious that the lack of attendance was not due to the caliber of the performer. But after seeing the performance given by the ushers and the police I seriously doubt if I ever will waste my money on an ACC ticket again, no matter who they can bill. The behavior of the audience (standing 

mean to tell us that there are no repressive governments existing in the "Free World"? I can't see what's so progressive about that type of attitude. Let's face it -I can get the same line in any middle class, establishment church anytime. So, in spite of all the window dressing, why pretend thatFr. Toohey is any different? 
Yours. Tom Dolbere Bristol, Pa 
The Real Light Story 


~P during the entire concert literally dancing in the aisles wa~ typical of a Chuck Berry concert. The behavior of the ushers (waving flashlights around herding the audience back to thei~ seat~ and generally distracting the aud1ence) was typical of a 
Keystone Kops movie. I can put up with the crowds rushing the stage, the wall of smoke that ~ractically obscures the stage at tu"!les and the near hysteria that re1gns throughout, but the ushers a~d police were just too much. I Will seriously think twice about ever spending a dime to see a live performance at the ACC again. 
Sincerely, 
Terry Riley 
Nothing New 
To the Editor: 
As a visit?r to Notre Dame, I was 
really lookmg forward to my first 
mass at Sacred Heart. My friends 
at N.D. had assured me that the 
campus ministry here was sen­
sitive to the real issues of the day, 
to the real needs of the people. They 
were especially enthusiastic about 
Fr. Toohey. His approach to the 
liturgy was supposed to make 
Christianity a living experience. 
So, what happens? I go on 
Sunda~ only to hear Fr. Toohey 
~outhmg the same old right wing 
lines about "Communist op­
pression'', etc. in the form of a 
religious invocation. Toohey must 
have taken that worn-{)ut cliche 
about the "victims" of Com­
munism straight from the 
McCarthy Era. Why were only 
Communist governments singled 
out for his criticism? Does Toohey 
daanesbury 

REAL.LYI JtltYE 8E&N 11/()f?KING TOO HARO IA1Et..Y. I KNOW :r FOR. 
ON& NCEO A 
9R£AK' 
\(~ 
'darry trudeau 
COME!, MICHAEL., t-ET t/5 RJR. ON/i WHI< R!NIJUNCE (){//?. COI111!1HEN1 10 08U6ATOR.Y SE-/.F­FtA6#tA110N/ 
"' 

YO// 11EAN Cl/T YEAH. Ct.AS5E5. 
I \ 

U~iversity" is not a gross 
m1squote but totally contradictory 
to the preceeding arguments. 
Taken literally, this misquote suggests that the lighting of the Grotto should be the same as the i parking lot, which is of course absolutely absurd. My original state~ent was the lighting in a particular place facilitating a particular function should be uniform. . _For example, this statement would suggest that the mercuryvapor lights on the roofs of La. F?rtune and the Psychology Bmldmg be removed immediately as totally incompatible with the residential qualities of the ad­jacent quad andmore uniform lights be installed. I am not op­posed to different lighting responses for different areas of campus, in fact, I encourage them 
provided they meet the previously 
suggested requirements and their 
territorial limitations here clearly 
defined. 

Finally, your article suggest that 
I feel time is not available for 
~rop_er analysis of campus 
hghtmg needs. This is the 
University's argument not mine. 
Good lighting and design is a 
matter of quality not expediency. 
Therefore it demands careful 
analysis and experimentation. I 
suspect that manyof the so called 
pressing lighting needs on campus 
are a result of insufficient 
foresight and planning in an­
ticipating such needs rather then 
the immediacy of the problem. 
The University seemingly can not 
see past installing lights around 
the next women's dorm much less 
anticipate lighting needs of the 
campus five years hence. This 
lack of forsight is more em­
barrassing when one realizes that 
Father Sorin laid out Notre Dame 
Ave through thick Inidana woods 
envisioning a golden dome at its 
terminus Forty years before it 
was actually built. It is amazing 
that clerics responsible for making 
design decisions at Notre Dame 
today can be laymen with regard 
to the expertise and sensitivity 
needed to meet the lighting 
response of this campus. 

Lighting at Notre Dame will 
make or break the quality of this 
campus at night. This letter is 
then. a challenge to the Univer: 
sity . I? maintain the highest 
quahty m campus lighting and to 
The Observer to get their facts 
straight before printing articles 
dealing with such an involved and· 
controversal topic. 

Sincerely, Ken McCandless Graduate Student (Architecture) 
Thanks, Demers 
Editor: 

Just want to say how terrific I 
think all you ND guys are. I was 
one of te many proud women of ND 
o~t Thursday night celebrating the 
VIctory of Billie Jean King (who I'll 
agree, probably does wear a 
jockstrap.) We had a great time 
even a~ Cavanaugh where things 
got a httle wet and wild. Then 
while trying to defend a fellow 
"number oner" I too was carried 
off under much protest by 6 or 7 
obliging males for a cool dip. (To 
the guy who said "Oh, girl, you 
better ~o on a diet," I'm on one). 
After picking myself out of the pool 
I sloshed on "home" to B-P to plan 
future retalliaton. The night's 
excitement was best expressed by 
the guy who yelled: "What hap­
pened tonight and what happened 
l~st night, should happen EVERY 
mght." 

Mary T. O'Brien 
the observer 

Night Editor: Bill Brink Assistant Night Editor: Marlene Zloza Layout: Jerry Lutkus Day Editor: Mary Janca Copy Editor: Rick Thues Picture Screener: J.M. Slade (other wise known as Jerome) 
Monday, October 1, 1973 the observer 
Last night's concert at Morris Civic was it had Satan waiting backstage. 
one of those rare things: a show that sue-Dressed, as the promoter pushes, for a ceeded when it had everything against it. real show; silvery costumes, top hats and 9-success 
Take the line-up for starters: 'King 
Crimson and Slade. You can't really get two 
bands more diametrically opposed in both 
style and quality. But everyone was 
satisfied by the end of the show: the tasteful 
and artistic pieces of King Crimson and the 
loud, masterful boogie music of Slade 
provided something for every taste. 
Typically a half-hour late <typical for Morris Civic, that is), King Crimson emerged surrounded by some cosmic-sounding intro and went right into the title piece of Lark's Tongues in Aspic, their latest LP. David Cross showed considerable talent on violin (oddly enough, not the electric variety, but a classic one with a microphone attached) in a tender solo. 
After guitarist and band leader Robert Fripp's polite suggestion that the Slade fans go get a radio following some catcalls, the group slid into "Easy Money," also from Lark's Tongues. Here, bassist John Wetton shone (as he would on later songs) on vocals. His is a voice that reminds one of a metallic substance against the papier mache of the general King Crimson sound. The perfect counter to that sound, his voice performs in the same vein as Greg Lake's voice used to do for them. 
The rest of the songs tended to blend into each other, both through new material and my unfamiliarity of all of King Crimson's music. But the musicianship took a back seat to nobody's group. Calmly seated or standing with their instruments, the band members were totally involved with their music. And though hard put to pick one outstanding performer, if pressed, I would have to say drummer Bill Bruford. It's now easy to see why he left Yes. His blossoming creativity in percussion is nothing short of astounding. 
Oddly enough, the group, ending with part two of Lark's Tongue' title track, refused an encore. Especially disappointing was also the group's refusal to play any pieces from their early albums. 
Slade, now, was something entirely dif­
ferent. The audience made apprehensive bythe levels the microphones were set before the group's appearance, Slade came on like 
inch platform shoes walked out holding 
guitars, all of which was sprinkled with 
glitter flecks. 
Like an adolescent Ian Anderson in a 
Fagin-type outfit, the youthful guitarist and 
group leader Noddy Holder had the crowd 
just where he wanted from the 
beginning. Though, sitting next to one of 
the bigger speakers, I began to look for 
something to plug up my ears by the end of 
the second song, I have to admit two things: 
1) Slade gets along with a surprising lack of real talent; and 2) Slade doesn't really need real talent to get along. 
To go into individual songs would be self­defeating; all are basically the same: hard, thundering bass intertwined with rather simple chord progressions and held together with heavy bass drum beats. 
But it was enough. Holder's vocals did the rest. Seemingly trying to get over the in­struments without amplification, his vocals and personality dominated every number. 
Showmanship was also a very important part of the performance. Beyond the costumes, the band members put on a show that was rare in its sincerity. One of the happiest-looking guitarists I've seen in a long while, lead guitarist Dave Hill jumped all over the stage, waving a most unusual guitar and the thumbs-up sign of the band. 
The real fault of the show lay not in a lack of writing talent, however; but a lack of actual playing. This became especially evident towards the end of the show, when most songs devolved into a single bass drum beat and Holder's screams and exhortions to the crowd to "let your hair down." 
But despite it all, Slade proved to be a very "boogie-able" and enjoyable band, provided you sat far enough back. The very simple, almost primitive tunes were fascinating in their ability to capture the audience and set nearly all feet tapping. And small things, like being able to laugh at itself (as Holder did when he tried to simulate passionate grunts and groans 
during John Sebastian's "Darlin' Be Home 
Soon") made the band that much more human and real. 
Little Bir:~ Screen 

time to be selective 
art ferranti 
Even though it is another week of television premieres and the first runs of many movies, the viewer can afford to be selective and still not miss all that much. James Garner gets the credit for pulling off the week since Support Your Local Sheriff airs on Saturday on NBC. This is one of the finest and funniest Westerns to come out of the "Hollywood film factories in a number of years (even its sequel, Support Your Local Gunfighter, was humorous). This plot has a very fast-on-the-draw Mr. Garner being more or less appointed by the mayor <Harry Morgan) to act as sheriff of Calender, Nevada. Doing so with a reluctance that hascharacterizedmany of Garner's later roles <including the short­lived TV series "Nichols"), he cleans up the town from head bad guy Walter Brennan, reforms his flunky deputy (Jack Elam), gets his girl <Joan Hackett), and ac­cidentally polishes off the local house of ill repute. The violence is minimal and oft-times hilarious. Garner always maintains that he is just passing through Calender. Don't make the same mistake. Watch this fine film. 
on the serious side 
On the more serious side, William Holden, Ernest Borgnine. Warren Oates, and Ben .Johnson among others form a devil 's alliance in the vanishing West of 1913 to become The Wild Bunch, probably the most violent oater in film history. Sam Peckinpah directed this film which specializes in brutality about a group of aging cowboys being chased by Robert Ryan who decide to kill just about anyone who happens to be where they wish to rob and plunder. The film was repulsive in its blood and gore but CBS is cutting this film 
somewhat for its Thursday pre­miere. There is a strong characterization of the protagonists but most of it was lost to or attleast took back seat to the blood-letting' For those of weak stomachs pass this one by even if it is edited. For the rest, good luck. 
spaghetti western 
Clint Eastwood once again rides onto our screens Sunday on ABC in Hang 'Em High This is the typical Eastwood spaghetti western <that is, made in Italy) that launched him to be for some unfathomable reason the highest paid male actor of the '70's. In this plot, he goes after Ed Begley who strung him up and left him to die. Inger Stevens falls in love with Eastwood for no particular reason of course. You can be sure of a lot of dust and bad guys getting shot. It is-a great deal cleaner in its violence than The Wild Bunch but it still panders to the baser aspects of man. 
getrbage 
Now we can go to the garbage level. Doctor's Wives which premieres tonight is in the same genre as Valley of the Dolls and is just as bad. This bit of trash features an all-star cast which is somewhat amazing since most of the actors do not have to do this type of sex and sadism film. From booze to bedroom activities, Richard Crenna, Gene Hack­man, and Carroll O'Connor (I cannot understand why they would do this movie) play the husbands with Dyan Cannon, Janice Rule and Rachel Roberts <I can un­derstand why these actresses did though, simply because they cannot act) playing the principle female leads. Watch the game if you must watch anything tonight. 
Incidentally, Cosell and crew 
call the plays for the Atlanta 
Falcons and Detroit Lions in 
Detroit tonight. 
The other waste-of-a-film is Dean 
Martin's final <thank God for 
small favors) Matt Helm flick. The 
Wrecking Crew. This poor spy 
spoof has Helm trying to recover a 
stolen gold shipment from the likes 
of Elke Sommer, Tina Louise, and 
Nancy Kwan with the aid of Sharon 
Tate. The film is so bad that, for 
instance, you can see the phoney 
grass mat of the indoor set wrinkle 
and curl up when Martin dives on it 
due to an explosion. Celebrate the 
rally or something but skip this 
film Friday. 
made for TV drama 
The two non-series made-for­TV films this week both feature drama. Alan Aida ("M-A-8-H") plays a sheriff who believes somebody is knocking off all the ·old people in the town with some sort of electrical equipment in 
Isn't it Shocking? 
Edmond O'Brien (also in the The 
Wild Bunch), Will Geer (Grandpa 
in "The Waltons"), and Ruth 
Gordon are also featured. Letters 
From Three Lovers feature Martin 
Sheen, Ken Barry, Juliet Mills, 
Barry Sullivan. Belinda Mont­gomery, and Lyle Waggoner in three stories concerning the lives of various people when letters are delivered one year late (what's so unusual about that?). It is strictly soap. This airs Wednesday while Aida's film will be shown tomorrow. 
"The ABC Supense Movie" has Henry Fonda heading up a group of ex-<:ons (James McEachen, Leonard Nimoy, and Larry Hagman) to rob a convoy of ar­mored cars in broad daylight down the middle of a boulevard in The 

morriS CIVIC 
Above left, bassist Jim Lea lays down a foundation for Slade. Left, Bill Bruford provides some frenetic percussion with King Crimson. Above, Slade lead guitarist Dave Hill decked out in his finest. (Photos by Joseph Abell, special help from Maria Gallagher) 
Alpha Caper this is Saturday. At ten that night, channel 16 will present the film Tom Jones, which took home the 1963 Oscar as best film of the year. Albert Finney plays the Henry Fielding hero in this hilarious story of a young man's wenching and wooing through England in the 1700's. Susannah York, Diane Cliento and Hugh Griffith are on hand but it is Joyce Redmond who steals the scene turning a dinner with Finney into one of the most well done and sexiest comic routines to be on film. It is a beaut of a film. 
Steve McQueen fans will ::!njoy seeing his first "big" film playing on 28 opposite Tom Jones on "Creature Features." With Anita Corseaut, McQueen and a bunch of his teen-age hot-rodding friends take on The Blob (the high-school fire extinguishers stop it>. Incidentally, this 1958 film also marked the debut of two fledgling movie composers. You've probably never heard of them before but their names are Burt Bacharach and Hal David. 
opening nights 

Premieres and Specials Bill Bixby starring as "The Magician" and the anthology "Police Story" premiere on NBC Tuesday while on the same night CBS ·unveils 
Jimmy Stewart as "Hawkins" <once a month)' Also tomorrow night , Johnny Carson celebrates his eleventh year the "Tonight Show". Among others, Burt Reynolds and Don Rickles will guest. However, Dick Cavett will spend two full shows <Tuesday and Wednesday) with Katharine Hepburn on ABC. Also unusual for Tuesday is Sonny Bono making his dramatic debut on "Marcus Welby". The TV show "Love Story" premieres on NBC Wed nesday. The first show was written and directed by Michael Landon and stars Bonnie Bedelia who, for the benefit of trivia buffs. played Little Joe's ill-fated wife in "Bonanza" season opener 
last year. The film Love Story , incidentally, ,will be repeated Oct. 21. "Banacek" begins a new season on Wednesday also. Finally, Stu Gilliam and Holly Hicks star in in "Roll Out!" this Friday. 
Trivia Question Everyone knows that HAL was the name of the computer in 2001: A Space Odyssey. But, what was the name of the spaceship Keir Dullea and Gary Lockwood flew in? Was it, a.( The Discovery, b.( The Jupiter, c.( The Constellation, d.( The 
U.S.S. Enterprize? "(R) Z!nb R!A!JJ. Ol JiM\SUV 
SKI THE ALPS! 
TINGES, FRANCE 
Arrangements by the Edgerton Travel Service 
IMPORTANT MEETING AND COLORFUL MOVIE. PRESENTATION: WED., OCT. 3 
7:30pm Rm I·C LaFortune 
Sponsored by the Notre Dame Ski Club. All Interested Notre Dame & St. Mary's students should attend the meeting·; For further in· formation, call 6716. 
the observer Monday, October 1, 1973
6 
More response 
Ticket 
by Bob Quakenbush 
Staff Reporter 
The "infant admission" con­troversy stirred up last week by Maurica Moore, the five-month old daughter of a Notre Dame couple who were denied entrance to the Notre Dame -NtJrthwestern football game because the child did not have a ticket, has evoked yet another response. This response came from a Notre Dame senior who sp~nt the summer working for the Ch'.cago White Sox baseball organization. 
·•; don't think it's fair to make a child of two or three pay to see a game he won't remember," says Jim Breen an accounting major enrolled in the University's College of Business Administration. At White Sox Park, according to 

story still 
Breen, "anybody under three is alk•wed to sit in their parents' laps regardless of whether they have a ticket or not." 
Breen continued, "We figured it was more important for public relations to admit them than to try to get another buck." 
The White Sox employed Breen in their accounting department this past summer and he was frequently involved with crowd control . He also assisted in the preparation of attendance records which were forwarded to the American League's main of­fices. 
"When the White Sox were in town I often worked 60 or 70 hours a week. Otherwise, I'd only work 40," says Breen. 
1'wo types of attendance records are kept by the baseball club, ac-
ND tea1n flies high 
•

1n frisbee contest 
by R. Thomas Thues Staff Reporter 
The Notre Dame Frisbee team flung its way into the hearts of hundreds at the WRBR Frisbee Fly-in. The contest took place in front of Ayrway market yesterday before a cro\\d of 200 Frisbee fanatics. 
Events included in the Burger King-Ayrway sponsored Fly-in were accuracy, distance, and time aloft. The seven-man 

~i2J;~tl$\!~f%t1!!i·::•,·t...';:1 ::~::::::·~!1\~~~t:: 
Howard Hall swept all but one event in an incredible display of Frisbee flingery. Team captain Joe "Fro" Essman attributed thier success to long hours of practice on the South'Quad. 
Nick "Wolf" Weis took home the Golden Frisbee trophy for ac­curacy. "Flying-off" against Philip Albert and his Frisbee retrieving dog, Weber, "Wolf" Weis spun his Frisbee through the 50ft. ring on his third and final toss. Time aloft contest was won by 
continued on 7) 
bre'Wing 
cording to Breen. The "Of­ficial" record accounts for the actual number of tickets sold, while the "total in the park" account records the number of people who enter the stadium through the turnstiles on a given day. The former does not include people who entered on free passes, and neither count includes children 
under the age of three. 

"The kids," Bree said , "were 
thrilled just to be in the park." 
Breen said gate officials merely guessed at the ages of the children, and that no proofs of age were required. He also sahl the system was rarely abused. 
Breen's job did have some drawbacks. Although he worked for the White Sox organization from May 18 until September 23, Breen admits he did not get to watch much baseball 'action. His duties kept him so busy tliat he hardly ever saw more than one or two innings a game. 
In fact, in order to see a baseball game Breen had to go see the rival Chicago Clubs play when the Sox were on the road. 
"Nevertheless," he added loyally,"I always rooted for the other team." 
a. 
u 
HALL 
ALUMNI 
BADIN BREEN-PHILLIPS 
CAVANAUGH 
DILLON 
FARLEY 
FISHER 
FLANNER 
GRACE 
HOLY CROSS 
HOWARD 
KEENAN 
LEWIS 
LYONS 
MORRISSEY 
PANGBORN 
ST. EDWARDS 
SORIN STANFORD WALSH ZAHM CARROLL Evenson 

OFF-CAMPUS OFFICE 
OPENING MONDAY, OCT. 1 located in basement of Lafortune 
HOURS MONDAY 
3-4 TUESDAY 
WEDNESDAY 

THURSDAY FRIDAY 3:00 ·4:00 commissioners mike higgins mick hartigan mark proesel 
VOLUNTEERS WELCOME (co-eds preferred) phone 7755 
M Tulane University 

New Orleans, La. graduate school of business administration director of 'admissions will be on campus MONDAY,OCT. 8 for interviews, contoct lacement office 
SCHEDULE OF MASSES IN RESIDENCE HALLS 
DAILY MASS 
10:30 pm Mon-Fri 

10:00 pm Tues & Thurs 
10:30 pm Mon, Wed & Fri 5:00pm Tues & Thurs 
5: 15 pm Mon-Fri 
11:00 pm Mon-Fri 
8:00 am Mon-Fri 
11:00 pm Mon-Fri 9:30pm Mon-Thurs 
10:00 
pm Mon-Thurs 

10:00 
Mon-Fri 


11: 
00 pm Mon-Thurs 

11: 
15 pm Mon-Fri 


11:00 pm Mon-Fri 

10: 45 Confessions Mon-Fri 
5:10 pm Mon-Fri 
11: 00 pm Mon-Thurs 
9:30 am Mon-Sat 
11:00 
pm Wed 

11:00 
pm Mon-Fri 



Confessions 10:30-11:00 pm Wed 
10:00 pm Mon-Fri 

10:30 
pm,Mon & Wed 5:00pm Tues -& Thurs 

See hall bulletin board Same as Keenan 

10:30 
pm Tues & Thurs 

10:30 
pm Mon-Fri 



5:00pm Mon-Fri 
Monday -Fri 5PM Log Chapel 

SUNDAY MASS 
S3turday midnight 
11: 00 pm Sunday 
11:00 am Sunday 
5:15 pm home football 
weekends Saturday midnight 
11:00 am Sunday 
10: 30 pm Sunday 
Saturday midnight 
11:00 am Sunday 
Saturday midnight 
11:00 am Sunday 
5:00 pm Saturday 
10:00 am Sunday 
9:30 pm Sunday 


Saturday midnight 01"' 
< 
11) 
Saturday midnight 
ll: 00 am Sunday Saturday midnight Saturday midnight 
Saturday midnight 
11:00 am Sunday (Urchins) 5:00pm Sunday 
Saturday midnight 
11: 
30 am Sunday Saturday midnight 

11: 
00 pm Sunday 

11: 
30 pm Saturday 


5:00 pm Sunday 

10:30 
pm Sunday 

See hall bulletin board Same as Keenan 

10:30 
pm Sunday Saturday midnight See hall bulletin board Sunday 


4: 30 pm Lady Chapel 
r 
..The Notre Da~~ F;isb~e squ~d: (r~ft to rlghU, Ni~~ ;,W~I~'; ~~is 
John "Alabama Kid" Miller, Mark "Schultz" Murphy Jo~ 
"Fro"Essman, !Staff photo by Joe Raymond) ' 
WHERE WOULD YOU RATHER BE ON 
. ~
DEC. 1st. SIGN 
UP FOR THE 
SENIOR CLASS TRIP 
open to all nd students and faculty 3 DAYS & 3 NIGHTS IN 
MIAMI 


BEACH!!! 
only $160 

$25 deposit due at travel bureau 
N LATER THAN FRl· OCT.•,l2. 
Episcopalian Services I Cross Hall

~----------------------------~~~~~~--------------:6:~3~0!p~m~T~h:ur~s~·------..J\ 
Monday, October 1, 1973 
the observer 
Frisbee flingers score high -in WRBR-sponsored fly-in 
(continued from page 6} 
"Fro" Essman who kept his 
Frisbee airborne for 7.7 seconds. Longer tosses were recorded, but .the respective Frisbees were not caught successfully. The record 
aloft time is 15 seconds. 
John· Connelly and Tom Cleworth, botl:l members of the Hyland Ave. Aces, made aspecialty appear,ance for the purpose of playing the Notre Dame team. The Aces, a Chicago team have entered several international Frisbee contests. "They're the -team to beat in "Guts" Frisbee," said 
by Jim Molina Staff Reporter 
The Old Fieldh.ouse was the sight of this year's first student spon­sored square dance. The event was collectively planned by the student presidents of Zaijm and Farley Halls and the Colorado Club. The event ran from 8 to 11 pm. According to Bob Kelly, one of the chief organizers, "The square dance was not planned as a fund raising event, .but merely as an alternative to other less desirable forms of entertainment." 
Kelly also said that the dif­ficulties in obtaining the Field house were minimal. "The Art Club, which presently owns the structure, and the Office if Student Affairs were both instrumental in arranging for our use of the facility. It was the feeling of the Student Affairs Office that the building should be for the use of the entire student body," Kelly said. 
The dance was held on the dirt floor of the Fieldhouse rather than 
BARN DANCE 
FRIDAY AFTER PEP RALLY 
9:00 pm -1:00 am Stepan Center $6.00 per couple 
Essman. 

Connelly won the distance competition with a toss of 78 yards. His best international toss was 312 feet. 
"Guts" Frisbee is a team sport. The five man teams "face-off" 15 ft. apart and hurl their frisbees at each other. The object is to catch the Frisbee with one hand. If the frisbee is not caught, the flinging team gets one point. If the Frisbee i!i.-too high or too low the receiving team gets one point. 
Connelly and Cleworth challenged the Notre Dame team to a 21-point exhibition game of 
Fieldhouse hosts
l 

first square dance 
a wooden platform , as planned. Refreshments were served at the entrance. 
A crowd of about 200 was expected. 
Despite the lack of publicity , the actual turnout appeared somewhat greater. 
In the past years, Kelly noted, tJte square dance. along with other 
unique events, have been spon­sored by Farley Hall. This year , however, the idea of interhall cooperation was extended. The hope was that more participation would be encouraged. 
Student Union Presents 

tix. GA or stud. Sharon 287· 
4003. 
Roommate needed ND APT.
73 I!! 

u92 NO ave. Apt. 2·A call 233­1302. 
Help. Desperately need 3 GA MSU tix. Call 5734. 
Need 4 GA -3 stu tix to MSU.
WAnt 2 GA MSU tix call 5465.
SATURDAY AFTERNOON 
Badly need 4 USC and 8 MSU tix (or andy combination). Tim 3176.
ND vs USC -$8.00 
Will trade: MSU gas-S for 2 usc GAs call 259-2242. 
Need 2 GA MSU tix. Call Jim 7938. 
Tickets go on sale MONDAY OCT. 1. DANCE AND FOOTBALL TIX WILL BE SOLD TOGETHER. Limit Of two football tickets per student. Concert tickets will 
Desperately need USC tix call Kathy 3784.
be sold separately at Student Union Ticket Office, 2nd 
floor LaFortune, 7:00pm -lO:OOprn 

FOR SALE 

MEERSCHAUM PIPES! 
Exceptional values, per· sonalized service. Catalog. PMP co. Box 444, Gaither· sburg, Md. 20760. 
2 F78 x 14 sonw tires used one winter. Like new. Mounted on rims. $20 each. Call 272-7857 after 5 pm. 
Swiss Mov,t, perpetual calendar mercury wagches. 17 jewels-only $15. Call Frank 3119. 
.For sale: Martin D-35 guitar 
with hard shell case call Bill. 
283-1161. 
'64 Chevy Malibu. 6 Clyn. Needs muffler. $75. 234-5980. 
Sony CF-620 AM·FM stereo receiver with speakers, built in cassette deck 1 yr. old. Ex­cellent condition. Ed 7965. 
500c.c. Suzuki with 600 miles 5650. 1949 H.D. basket case $150. Rick 233-9122. 
FOR RENT 

1 . 2 room .apt. 7 min. drive from NO. Call 288.9533 after 3 pm. 
NOTICES 

Morrissey Loan Fund can loan up to S150 at 1 per cent interest 1 day waiting period. Basement of LaFortune. 11:15­
12:15 Mon-Fri. 
Students interested in NO·SMC Gay Student Alliance call 776JJ, Wed, or Fri. 7·9 pm. 
Will do typing: term papers, manuscrips, hetc. call 233. 
6909, 
SKI  THE  ALPS-TINGES,  
FRANCE.  IMPORTANT  
MEETING  AND  MOVIE  

PRESENTATION WED OCT. 37 ;30 P.M. RM. 1-C LAFOR· TUNE. 
Skiers interested in racing for the ND racing team· Orginization meeting. Tues. Oct. 2, 7:30 , Room I·C, LaFortune. If you cannot attend, call Bob 234-8783. 
TONY'S SHOE SHOP: shoe repair, shoe sales, watchbancts. zippers, shoe care supplies, all types of leather repair. ON CAMPUS-behind Adm. Bldg. 
Frodo and company escape the Black Riders at Bree. 
LOST AND FOUND 

Found ring near St. Mary's Lake. Call Stev'e 1545. 
Lost Man's gold watch possibly in library. Call Tim 3176. 

"Guts" Frisbee. The teams were well matched and the game never came to an end. 
Frisbee flying is becoming an 
accepted sport in competitive circles. $1000 prize money will be awarded at the Copper Harbor, Michigan, International Frisbee Meet, Oct. 18 and 19. This eight­team Invitational will host the best 
"Guts"  Frisbee  teams in the  
United States.  
With  courses  on  the  

aerodynamics of Frisbee throwing offered at Berkely, Stnaford and Cal-Tee ~ssman feels 1 that Notre Dame should sanction indoor matches at the A.C.C. "Wolf " added that, "practice on the South Quad is dangerous. I broke my arm after tripping on a sidewalk cable." 
Essman and his team hope to use the A.C.C. for practice this winter. Essman was told, "those things <Frisbees) are banned in the A.C.C.," by A.C.C. adminstrators. He added that if interest increases the facilities may be made available. 
Anyone interested informing a Frisbee team or challenging Essman's team call "Fro" Essman at 8219. 
CARPENTERS IN CONCERT SATURDAY NIGHT 
8:00 pm $6.50 -5.50 -4.00 
WANTED 

Desperately need GA tix tor Army and Navy games. Call 1364. 
2·6 GA tix needed tor USC . Will pay reasonably exobitant prices. Also, 2GA tix for MSU. 232-2973. 
Want Domes for personal collection: Need 1911;1912; 1914; 1915; 1916; 1917; 1918; 1924; 1925; 1926tocompleteset. 
Call Tom Kirshner ACCT. dept. 3296 or 234-3790. 
Need 2-4 GA tix to MSU and USC will pay call Scott 1598 or 214 Grace. 
Need 2 USC GA tix or I'll kill myself. Will pay $40. Call Carole.8148 
Desperately need 4 USC tix. 
Will pay. Call Pat 3273. 
Need one or two tix to MSU game. Call Bob 3451. 
Need Desperately 2 MSU tix. Will pay well. Liz 4777. 
Need 2 GA tix for MSU STeve 1545. 
Scalpers-attention. Need MSU 
8472 or 8475. 
Need 2 tix to MSU game. Call OWL, 6JJ64. 
Need 3 MSU tix. MilKE ·3305 
Need MSU tix call Mary 4079. 
want 2 GA UDC tix. 272-0913 in evening. 
Need 2 MSU tix . Call Tom 6522. 437 CA. 
Need 2 GA tix for USC. Call Jim 234·7022. 
Desperately need 2 GA MSU tix. Call Mike 1820. 
... 

; . 

----~-~~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
the observer Monday, October 1, 1973
8 

Best's best topples Boilermakers 
deep down the left sideline early in by Vic Dorr 
the second quarter and took
Sports Editor 

quarterback Bo Bobrowski's pass in stride for Purdue's lone tally of 
WEST LAFAYETTE -Satur­the day.

day's football game between Notre nut the Irish defenders railiedDame and Purdue was a show, to after their one miscue, and shut off be sure, but it bore little resem­the Boilers the rest of the way.

blance to Irish-Boilermaker PurJue finished the afternoon with performances of past years. 

33 yards rushing and 153 yardsIt lacked the heavy melodrama passing.
which marked 1971's Monsoon "I told the squad I was proud of Bowl in Purdue's Ross-Ade them," said the Irish head coach.

Stadium, and it lacked even more "It's difficult to come off a bigof the wholesome family at­victory and play a pressure gamemosphere whtch characterized last like this. We came from behind to year's 35-14 Irish romp in Notre win, and we needed points in theDame Ste.dium. 

second half. And I have nothingInstead, Saturday's clash in but complimentary remarks for
West Lafayette, a 20-7 Irish 

Coach Agase's team--especiallytriumph, was its own show, even after their loss to Miami <of Ohio).
though there were occasional It looked like we were in troublereturns to the recent past. The after they had us down 7-3."

melodrama came one minute and Burton's catch did resurrectone second into the second period, memories of pass Purdue upsets,when flanker Larry Buton caught a but the Irish wasted no time in53-yard touchdown pass to give the righting themselves after they fell Boilers a short-lived 7-3 lead, and behind. Art Best, a sophomorethe family entertainment came showman who set up NO's firstmidway through the third period, score--a 22 yard field goal bywhen the Irish offense rollicked its Bobby Thomas--with a 65-yardway through an 86-yard touchdown burst on the first play fromdrive. 

scrimmage, put the Irish back outBeyond ·those two instances, in front with a nine-yard slash offthough, the game belonged to the right tackle with 6:48 remaining 
"We did well during the first
present. It was played in muggy, until intermission. 

half," said junior split end Pete
overcast weather by two teams Best was the afternoon's leading 

Demmerle, but we made mistakes
with youth-accented rosters. And ground-gainer--he ran 16 times for 

when we got down close. In the
for the Irish, the starring roles 127 yards and one TD --but he did 

second half, we made fewer
in this annual Notre Dame not limit his showmanship to the mistakes, we did what we were 

Extra Points 
Purdue production were assumed playing field. The Columbus, Ohio 

supposed to, and we came out on
by the players who give Ara native began the afternoon, the top."

Parseghian's roster its youthful best of his brief collegiate career,

flavor. "We didn't really decide one way
by flashing a finger-wiggling,
Junior fullback, Wayne Bullock or another at halftime," added
thumb-sucking wave to a national Clements, the Irish QB. "We knew A year ago the Irish seemed to be in almost the same situation they'regained 67 yards on 14 carries, and TV audience.
capped the third-period, 86-yard we could run against them, and it in today. They had won impressively at Northwestern, 37-{) and had come
"I did it to relax myself a little
thrust by scoring from the one with worked so well we didn't need to home to completely dominate Purdue 35-14. This year, after an opening
bit," he said. "I wanted to make it 
pass." game trouncing of the Wildcats at ND, it was off to Purdue, and while not 4:43 showing. Bullock's tally gave more of a game." 
by an overwhelmingly lopsided score ND won nonetheless in convincing the Irish a 17-7 lead, and insured "He's a character," admitted Excepting Bullock's goal-line fashion.
Notre Dame's fourth consecutive Parseghian. "He's always been a fumble, the Irish ground game and 

victory over the Boilermakers. So people say, "Great, what does that mean? We'll get upset by 
comedian-type, always something defensive game kept Purdue out of somebody like Rice, get shellacked by somebody else named A.D. Davis
Nor was Bullock the only of a prankster. But he's worked the contest in the second half, and and his teammates, and then get clobbered in a post-season bowl game? 
headline performer. The spry hard all year, had a great pre­Thomas' 42-yard field goal with Right?"
Irish defense, a squad which season, and Art had a great day 7:09 left ended the scoring. The started only three seniors, ex­today. He really ran well, and he Boilers' furthest penetration in the Hardly. For despite the apparent similarities involved, this year's squad tended its string of scoreless thrusted well for short yardage." final 30 minutes was to the NO 48, is different and from here it looks as though this difference goes far quarters to five before sprinter Best did appear the most relaxed and from there, Bobrowski's beyond changes in personnel. The 1973 Irish seem to be a much hungrier Larry Burton beat Tim Rudnick member of the Irish offense, an desperation pass with 0:02 left on ball club. They have a healthy feelingof confidence which exhibits itself 
offense which suffered from road the clock was intercepted by senior strongly in an ability to come back, which they did against the Boiler­jitters and slippery fingers and lost safety Tim Rudnick. makers Saturday, but more importantly it seems, in a change in attitude
ND sailors fifth 

at least two additional touchdowns among the team as a whole.
"It was a game we had to play,"via turnovers. Wayne Bullock's said Parseghian, emphasizing the As a result the Irish appear to be playing more as a unit; there's a
in own regatta fumble on the Purdue ·goal line verb."We were playing away from stronger feeling of "togetherness" among the individual squad members. after an 18-yard scamper erased home. We had to run the football, Some of it can be explained by the youth present on this year's team, but one drive, Tom Clements bobble and we had to come from behind. the rest of it just seems to be there. 
Fourteen different skippers on the Boilermaker 35 (following a Those are young kids we've got 
Bob Thomas had an interesting opinion the other day at practice. j "There just seems to be a different atmosphere out here this year," he1.' competed for the Irish as the 15-yard scramble from mid-field) here, and this is a young ball club-­
sailing team took advantage of its erased another. Clements was also
I home 24-race regatta to get a look and we got hooked up in a real offered, "everyone is interested in playing for Notre Dame this year
intercepted twice, and had trouble 
donnybrook today." 

rather than for someone else next year." And then, while pointing to the't at as many racing hopefuls as connecting with his receivers Another such "donnybrook" defensive line, he added, "And those guys over there are a big reason for
possible. during the first half. faces the Irish next weekend, when it."Despite the fact that ND did not The Irish threw sparingly in the they host Michigan State's 
Punter Brian Doherty had the same thoughts. "I can feel the change in 
stick with its best skippers, they second half, and returned, after rebuilding Spartans. Purdue, now 
attitude. Everyone is for each other. The young guys have added a lot."
managed to defeat seven schools intermission, to a time-consuming, 1-2 meets the Duke Blue Devils at Greg Collins and Mike Townsend both backed up this claim.
while finishing behind four. yardage-consuming ground game. home. 
"Everyone's hungrier this year and they're anticipating a lot more. I Brisk winds with rain on think the youth of this year's team has a lot to do with it," said Collins. 
Saturday and sun on Sunday Townsend noted, "There's definitely a change in attitude. There's a lot enabled the entire series to be more spirit and a lot more of everyone pulling for each other. I think the sailed. The Oshkosh Titans came young guys help because they push us." 

on strong to edge out powerhouse Tim Rudnick feels it's because of the minority of veterans on the squad Michigan by one position point. 

this year. "Last year the attitude wasn't like that of young kids. ThereMichigan State also came up to were a lot of seasoned veterans and a lot of the time they just weren't up." 
't make it an exciting three way race Eric Penick also had an interesting analysis, "We're more emotionallyduring the final competition. 
driven this year plus we've got maturity. Nobody's worried about~ Coming up in October are a playing, just about what they can do for the team.",, ( series of three regattas that will Gary Potempa, "The attitude's great. It's a lot of fun playing.
i) determine whether or not Notre Everyone's encouraging everybody else and I definitely feel the younger I Dame will compete in the Sugar guys have quite a bit to do with it." 
I Bowl Regatta sailed in New 
I' But not everyone felt this way. For instance, Tom Clements, "I don't 
·r Orleans over Christmas. The top think there's been a change at all. There's no reason to change," added
' 
'I finisher in the Michigan regatta on 
the junior quarterback, "we may be a little bit more confident but that's I 1\ Oct. 13, and the Iowa and Ohio all." Dave Casper agreed, "I don't think there's been a change in at­
State Regattas on successive 

titude. No, I don't think so at all, there hasn't been a change in attitude weekends will get the bid. 
around here ir. ten years." Art Best felt the same way. "There's not a The Notre DamP team, bolstered change in attit•Jde," said Best, "there's just a lot of young talent, a lot of -· by the team depth displayed so far heart and we want to win." 
this season, should make a strong Perhaps coach Parseghian was best at putting things in their proper 
bid for the spot. perspective. "We have a young ball club with the looseness that the younger players seem to add. We're hungry and we're confident, but also we have good leadership and this is important for a ball club." 
Swimming note They <whoever they may be) say, that having the proper attitude is important for not only a football player but for any athlete. "They" may
All students who were not on the 

be proved right and hopefully it'll be the 1973 Irish that show just how swimming team last year and are important spirit, attitude and confidence really are. Just one word of interested in trying out should caution though: before the similarities of the '72 season and '73 season report to the swimming pool in the end against Rice and Southern Cal, they have to be continued againstRockne Memorial Building today. 
Michigan State and Army. 

I,.. 







