
On The Inside 
SBP and SBVP an­nouncements ...pag~ 3 A bool~ b_v Fr. Griffin 
...page 5 



serving the notre dame community
Vol. VII No. 79 Tuesday, February 13, 1973 

Prof. Murdock. H-Man. and Dr. Ackerman listen to discussion of proposals at yesterday's SLC meeting. 

SLC looks at 
proposals of 

black students 
Janet Longfellow Staff Reporter 
Definite actions on several proposals introduced at the February 5 SLC session on black students at Notre Dame highlighted Monday's SLC meeting at Holy Cross Hall. 
University Vice-President Dr. Phillip Faccenda stated each of the possible proposals and made rec?mmendations concerning each; appointing variOus SLC members to investigate them further and to report back to the SLC on steps being taken or already in progress. 
These proposals are: 
ll That all students at Notre Dame be required to take a minority experience course. Two SLC members will meet with University Provost, Fr. James Burt­chaell to discuss this matter. 
2l To hire a full-time Black Student Affairs person. This proposal heing in his field, Dr. Phillip Faccenda stated. "We will move ahead on that as quickly as we can." Being recruited to Notre Dame next fall is Dr. Granville Cleveland, as Acting Director of Black Student Affairs. Cleveland will also sit on the Central Staff meeting of Student Affairs. 
3l That the Minority Student Aid program needs to be on a more secure fmancial basis. Two SLC members were designated for investigation of this question. 
4l That the University provide a Black House. This would be a social meeting place for blacks off-campus, an idea that has been instituted in other colleges. Faccenda designated two members to visit nearby schools and find out how their Black Houses are suc­ceeding. 
5l To have an increase in black resident assistants. A report to the SLC on the proposal's progress will be made by Dr. Faccenda and Director of Residence Staffs Fr. Flannigan "as soon as possible." 
6l That the double counting of courses in the Arts and Letters College, which required two semesters of Theology. be changed. A recommendation to the college will be made to see if it is willing to accept such a change. 
7l The lack of cultural events for blacks will be in­vestigated by Student Government Vice-President Dennis Etienne. The Social Commission of the Student Union will be asked for reactions on the question, "Why aren't we giving creedence to black students in the area of cultural activities?" 
.sl The lack of hall social activities problem will be directed to the Hall President's Council. 
9l The recruiting of black women onto the Notre Dame campus, to help improve the male-female ration among black students will be studied. 
tOl That there be a place to house visiting black women. Assistant to the Provost Sr. Miriam Jones was requested to make a report on the problem. Solutions will probably include housing in Lewis, Walsh and Badin halls. 
11) An additional question discussed was the lack of religious services for non-Catholics. Professor Leslie Foschio, Assitant Dean and Professor of Law, was requested to approach Campus Ministry Director, Fr. William Toohey .on the problem. 
The Hall Life Committee presented its report on the campus housing shortage. The report proposed a random lottery system method for selecting those who will be forced to move off-campus as opposed to a grade point average system. Special exemptions would be permitted as a part of the lottery, with much of the decision left up to individual halls. This factor led to a 
disagreement as to the method's validity. Since the 
continued on page 2 
Shaffer issues statement 

on abortion legalization 
Legal euthanasia a threat 
Tom Drape Staff Reporter 

A statement on abortion calling for an effort "to make every attempt to bring about a con­stitutional ammendment overruling the decisions of the Court," has been released by the DPan of the Notre Dame Law School. 
Dean Thomas Shaffer released the statement ~·esterday close on the heels of a personal letter sent to University President, Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh. a week ago today. 
In that letter, Shaffer warned that recent Supreme Court decisions are opening legal doors to euthanasia. Shaffer's letter to Hesburgh was unavailable for printing. 
Shaffer. a veteran member of the American Civil Liberties Union, terms his first reaction to constitutional amendment possibilities as ··worthy but unlikely to succeed." 
statement 

Pointing to defeat of referendas on abortion last fall in Michigan and North Dakota, as well as the beliefs of his distinguished colleagues, Shaffer concluded that any effort is "worth our time and support." 
A call for resistance by Catholic hospitals to abortion decisions was also made by the Dean of the Law School. 
He continued by writing, " .. .it is important for knowledgeable people to assist in preparing and !i.Upporting legislation to meet the criteria laid down by the Court. .. " 
Shaffer termed "a separate reason" for efforts by making a distinction on the Court's effect of making abortion possible during the entire pregnancy. This is referred to in the statement and the letter to Hesburgh as embryotomy--the destruction of a child ready to be born. 

letter to Hesburgh 
In his letter to Hesburgh, copies of which were sent to the Law School faculty, Shaffer requested resistance to the Court's vote against life by "all honorable, professional means and to support a constitutional human life amendment." 
Quoted as saying that "the only restraint is the physician's sensitivity to public relations," the Dean placed priority on each professional's attitudes and subsequent decision. 
Noting in the letter that the Court introduces the standard of "meaningful life outside the mother's womb" with regards to the final trimester of pregnancy, Shaffer went on to speculate a further step under such a standrard "to forbid regulation of abortion when the un­born child is thought to be disabled or retarded, by doctor or parents, or both." 

reaction 

Support for constitutional amendment was t>xpressed throughout the Law faculty as well as for Shaffer's stand. 
Law professor, Fr. William Lewers, is in general agreement and support of a con­stitutional amendment and Shaffer. On the success of a constitutional amendment Lewers is skeptical. "Frankly, I don't think it will suc­ceed," he said. 

i I 
I 
1 
Dean Thomas Schaffer: Statement calls for "every attempt" to overturn Court's abortion 
j
ruling. 
Lewers point to the Michigan referendum as a possible example of public support. Identifying Prof. John Noonen, a former Notre Dame ~ro~esso.r presently at the University of ( ahforma, as another leading figure in favor of amendment action. Lewers noted that Noowen teamed with Shaffer could offer optimism. 
"If any action is led by men i.n our profession such as Noonen and Shaffer, the least that can result is better public education on the abortion issue," said Lewers. 
Attention was also drawn by Prof. Lewers to A.ssistant Professor of History Robert Kerby and his letter to the editor in the January 31st Ob­sc>n•er. Lewers considers it the best statement with regards to the sanctity of life and the Court's decision. 
Hobert Todes, Notre Dame law professor, who was consulted by Shaffer in drawing up the !:'.tatement on abortion, shares Shaffer's views. "I support the proposed constitutional amend­ment and consider the Court's decision wrong " u~R~~. ' 
A nationally prominent anti-abortion spokesman and another Notre Dame Law Professor, Charles Rice, voiced further support for constitutional amendment. 
An expert in constitutional law, Rice said "A constitutional amendment is absolutely necessary to protect not only the child in the ~\'om b. but also the retarded, the aged and other mnocent persons who are now in peril of being defined as non-persons." 
For the text of 
Shaffer's statement 


see page 7 



the observer Tuesday, February 13, 1973 ...
2 


warld 



brief• 
(C) 1973 New York Times

r 
r 
I 
f 
[ 
r 
r 
I 
~ 
f 
r 
Clark Air Base, the Philippines-The first released American prisoners of the Vietnam war were greeted with cheers of welcome and tears of joy as they stepped off military evacuation jets at Clark Air Base in the Philippines. They appeared to be in better physical condition than most onlookers had expected, and the base hospital commander pronounced their health as "reasonably good." 
Vientiane-Representatives of the Vientiae government in Laos and the Communist-led Pathet Lao were still haggling over details of an imminent Laotian cease-fire settlement. It seemed certain that the cease-fire would go into effect before the end of the week, but a high government source said it would take years to reach a political agreement. 
Montivideo--The confrontation between Uruguay's armed forces and the civilian government headed by President Juan Maria Bordaberry eased with the announcement that agreement had been reached on "fundamental points." Details of the accord were not disclosed, but it was believed to have assured the continuation of civilian rule under the military's close control. 
Washington--A federal district court judge in Washington authorized the Nixon administration to put into effect im­mediately the administration's emergency order requiring armed local law enforcement officers stationed at each of the country's 531 airports providing commercial airline service. Judge John L. Smith said '·'the public interest lies in protecting the safety of air commerce from a threat of a new and more sophisticated type of hijacker--the armed, fleeing felon. Airport operators had opposed the order. 

4:00 p.m.--seminar, management of waste water disposal in chicago, bart Iynam, rm. 303 engineering bldg. 
4:30 p.m.--lecture, financial management in the air force, ed­
mund audito edmonds, jr., rium  library  
4:30  p.m.--seminar,  snails,  

chromosomes and schistosomes, dr. 
j.b. burch, galvin life science auditorium, refreshments 
6:30 p.m.--reading and discussion, women's caucus, women's center, library 
7:00 p.m.--lecture, ."all you ever wanted to know about finance--and now you can ask" part two, carroll hall, smc 
8:00 p.m.--poetry and talk, nikki giovanni, reading and speaking on her own poetry, memorial library auditorium 

SLC acts on Black students' proposals 
continued from page 1 
sted to approach Campus Ministry Director, Fr. William Toohey on the problem. 
The Hall Life Committee presented its report on the campus housing shortage. The report proposed a random lottery system method for selecting those who will be forced to move off-campus as opposed to a grade point average system. Special exemptions would be permitted as a part of the lot­tery, with much of the decision left up to individual halls. This factor led to a disagreement!as to the method's validity: Since the meeting was one member short of 

Interest on student gov't. funds to finance bus shelter at Grotto 
Interest amounting to $1,125 Qll 
student government funds held by 
the University will be used to 
construct a bus shelter at the 
Grotto shuttle stop, Treasurer 
Mike Marget said yesterday. 
Last November Student 
Government wanted to deposit 
$40,000 in a local bank to collect 
interest, but after Marget con­
ferred with Richard Lynch, 
university comptroller, it was 
decided that the money would stay 
in Student Government's 
University account and collect 
interest from Notre Dame at the 
rate of 2.5 percent. 
The interest formula was based on the $45,000 average annual balance of Student Government. Student Government draws on its account with the University to pay its bills; and the University uses the account to collect interest which goes into the general fund. 
Groundbreaking for the shelter is expected to be beforeMpril first, when the current administration leaves office, according to Marget. 
The nine member C.O.U.P. de Grass committee is meeting this week and is expected to report to Marget later this week on its 

e Observer is published dally during lie college semester excepf vacations by "e students of the University of Notre 
Dame and St. Mary's College. Sui); criptions may be purchased for se per emester (14 per year) from The 01).; !!rver, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 
556. Second class postage paid, Notre me; Ind. 4655'. ·'"· ' 

a quorum, a vote on the report's recommendation was postponed. 
Objections to the report included the idea that, "the grade point system is easier and traditional." 
Professor Emeritus of English, Rufus Rausch countered with the statement, "I feel as a faculty member that the GPA system is the reverse of what would seem most sensible." He added that those with low grade point averages would be the ones most likely to suffer from being forced off-campus. 
The questions of campus ~~curity was suggested as a possible topic for the next SLC 
progress to formulate a preliminary plan. 
Architecture student Ken McCandless "will take a boring to see if the area will support a structure, it is just a marsh," Marget said. 
After that it will just be a matter of drafting a plan and getting it approved by the Committee on the Campus Environment, which is headed by art professor Frederick 
Beckma1h 
MID· 

SEASON SALE 
• 
YAMAHA ALL 
ARBD 1••••••••• 
YAMAHA ALL s11951 S2200 

ARIJND II -····· 
YAMAHA ALL S3]5D.

AROUfiiL__• 5132• 
(All with Salomon 444 Bindings mn~Jmo•u,.. 
Mon. tflru frf. 12 to a fat. 10 to 5 
1 1J.IIUIE WAY 110. .IOUWID 
Between Patty Sha,pes and,li9 C Lumber 
PhOne 272·3845 

hearing session. The steering Committee thought it might be beneficial to withdraw its security recommendation in order not to duplicate those of other numerous 
gr JUps concerned problem.  with the  
Dr.  Faccenda  feels  that  "the  

whole community should be brought up-to-date on what the problems of security really are, rather than continuing to place blame on the campus Security Depar~ment. We want to get all the ( committees together to combine the many different ideas." 
An ad-hoc committee was recommended to bring together all the groups investigating security problems. It is hoped that this hearing topic would bring about discussions on relations between the Notre .Dame Campus and South Bend, \since \ the two problems are so closely related. 
Membership changes were also announced at today's SLC session. Professor Joseph Naus, Asistant Professor of Electrical Engineering will assume the SLC seat formerly held by Professor Ronald Weber, Chairman of the American Studies Department. The vacant seat of former student representative Frank Devine has been filled by Paul Lauck of Alumni Hall. 
SA1I.P.IICI. YOU SAVE 




~ 9S00 S2458 

--. -. 
HE RED DOOR CLUB. 
presents 
Old Time Movies Every Wednesday Night *also recent NO Football Flix 
* Ai;I:R * WINE * LIQUOR* 
MEMBERSHIPS AVAILABLE 


THE NOTRE DAME-ST. MARY'S THEATRE 
AFTER THE RAIN 
JOHN BOWEN'S absorbing theatrical morality p!3Y: surrounding events 200 years hence--after the-rain. 
February 16, 17, 22, 23, 24 at 8:30 pm Washington Hall Notre Dame campus Students, Faculty, Staff $1.50. 

Wojcieszek & Wordal seek SB jobs 
by D£>an Mayors Staff Reporter 

(';dling for a more "student­oriented" Notre Dame. Alice \\'ojcieszek ar'i Blake Wordal announced their candidacies for th(• offices of Student Body !'resident and Vice-President last night in Walsh HaiL 
Wojcieszek. a junior marketing major from Chicago. stressed that lwr campaign would focus primarily on the issues of security, academic reform. and social life. St<lting that "Notre Dame student gowrnmen t has a tendency to become distant and detached from tlw students it serves," she pledged to bring student govern­nwnt closer to the students. 
Vice-Presidential  candidate  
\\'ordal. a sophomore in Arts and  
L!'tters  from  Helena.  Montana.  
~tressed  the individualism of the  
ticket with his comment. "We do  
not  seek anY endorsements from  
the campus 'media. We will speak  
to  the  people.  not  to  those  who  
hl'licYe opinion ...  they  mold  student  
Wojcieszek downplayed her role  
as a female candidate. stating, "I  
nm not as a woman but as a Notre  
!lame  student."  She  expressed  
fear that her sex might affect the  
\ray people regard her candidacy,  
commenting.  "Male  chauvinism  
Pxists on campus. Theres no doubt  
about  that.  and  it  may  work  
against me."  
Alic<' Wojcieszek and Blake Wordal: gol'ernment to the students.  Need  exists  to  bring  student  When asked if she had acquired any support from student govern­nwnt or campus organizations,  

Reasons cited for social neglect 
··authoritarian tradition" which fostered the attitude of noblesse obligl'. In this tradition those on the top of the economic structure hdped those on the bottom. The lowest level expected to be helped. 

No equivalent tradition developed in the American tradition of "democratic in­dividualism" Heilbroner said, adding that "when we find people who are neglected there is a feeling that it is their own fault." 
The second historical trend 
which has no counterpart in 
American development, according 
to IIPilbroner. was the democratic 
socialist movements which arose 
"out of the oppression of monar­
chv." 

in America this movement of 
reform "never really sank in" 
because its political thrust was 
"absorbed by the democratic 
svstem and its economic thrust 
\\··as nullified by great economic 
success. according_to Heilbroner. 
Wojcieszek commented that she and Wordal have "no contact at all" with current student leaders. Both candidates admitted that thl'y have no previous experience in student government work. Both :;tated. however. that they were on the Pxecutive committee of the l\lcGoYern for President campaign at Notre Dame last fall. and Wojcieszek has worked in various politic~ll campaigns in Chicago. 
Both eandidates have little idea as to who their competition might he. When asked about her own chances of being elected. \\iojcieszek commented, "We must admit that we are starting out with big odds against us. But we have n1any friends on campus, .and we intend to take our campaign to all tlw students." 
AI Cramer. former head of the 1\ll'(;overn campaign at Notre DamP. is the campaign manager for the Wojcieszek-Wordal ticket', and manv former McGovern \\'OI'kers are also involved in the campaign. No specific activities an• as ~·et planned by the can­didates. but Cramer commented that the campaign will most likely include speeches in all the dor­mitories and some door-to-door campaigning. 

(formerly of the Temptations} and The Realistics 
·Saturday Feb. 24 
· 10:30 p.m. (following the high school sectionals} 
·Tickets: $3.50, $4.50 ·Available at: 
Pandora's Books and Morris Civic Auditorium 219 N. Michigan Downtown, South Bend 232-6954 

Applications  are  now  being accepted  for  the  
position of  
Editor-in-chief  
The Observer  

Submit a resume to John Abowd no later than noon Wednesday, Feb. 14. 
Jackson Hole••• 
only 5 spaces left I 
234-7245 for information 
SPECIAL••• 
Valentine's Day Classified Ad 
Ads will be taken Tuesday from 10 • 1 
0 


Observer Office 
1 -5 
Fiesta Lounge 
3rd. Floor LaFortune 

OBSERVER Ads get results I
.• ·~ ~ ..... 

0
•·•·~· ...\'• •. ...•.0.·•. .c,.• ..,....;.0. 
....o o;~. ·~·:o· ·-:! .. -.~:.o·· .,.· 
~ 
1 
1 
I, 
1 
I 
~ 
1 
1 
j 
1 
,, 
1 
The \Jnited States is guilty of "social neglect'' not because it has a capitalistic economy but because of a unique combination of t<:uropean political traditions \\'hich have not developed in this country. according to Dr. Robert llei lbroner. 
The professor of economics at the Nt•w School of Social Resear.ch in New York City analyZed the reasons for what......he called .. America's backwards per­formance" in the the area of quality of li~ing in his lecture yesterday afternoon before a standing room only crowd in the librarv auditorium. 
Heiibroner began with the "premise'' that "this <America l iust may not be the greatest ~·otmtrv in the world to live in." He based ·this claim on a form of "casual empiricism" in which he 


$50 advance enrollment fee due February 16 
All studeuts mus~ pay a fifty dollar advance enrollment deposit h~· Fabruary 16 if they plan to t·eturn to the university next fall. Students must make th'is payment in room 102 of the Administration Building. 
i\l'cording to Mr. Emerit E. 1\loore. Director of Students' Aceounts. all students must con­firm their decision to return for the aeadl'mic year 1973-74, but in the case of some scholarship holders the deposit is not required. 
Onlv those who confirm their intention to return will be con­sidered for campus housing. 
1\loore stresses that all students, including married undergraduate students. students who intend to live off-campus. students who may intend to live off-campus and all seholarsllip holders. mus• make sure that the Office of Students' Aecounts knows of their intention to return. 
examined the relative position of 
the U. S. in the areas of infant 
mortality. life expectancy, com­
mitment to education and com­
mitment to justice. 
In his analysis, Heilbroner 
rejected "simplistic" reasons for 
United States performance on the 
quality of life indicators. "After 
the revolution this will still be 
America. Just as capitalism is a 
family of systems that ranges from 
Sweden to South Africa so 
socialism is a family of systems. I 
suspect that a socialist revolution 
here would result in an American 
:;ocialism." 
lll'ilbroner noted that American 
:;ocialism would not necessarily 
improve upon American 
capitalism. He pointed out that the 
countries which had out-performed 
the tr. S. in his indicators had 
capitalist economies. 
An analysis of the differences 
between capitalist and socialist 
systems provides "no way of 
knowing why American capitalism 
is such a poor performer," the 
economics professor added. 
As an answer to the "simplistic" 
solutions. Heilbroner suggested 
certain historical traditions which 
exist in European capitalistic 
economies. 
The first of these is the 
Orchestra tryouts 
for 'Magic Flute 

to begin tonight 
Auditions for the orchestra in the 
production of Mozart's Magic 
FlutC' begin tonight at 7:00 in room 
:l09 of Moreau Hall. SMC. 
The show is a joint production of 
the Saint Mary's music depart­
nwnt and the ND-SMC theater 
department. 
The auditions will be conducted 
by Dr..James McCray of the SMC 
music department. The second and 
final session is scheduled for 
Fl'bruary 20. 
Magic Flute opens on April 6. 







JUNIORS 
MAKE TABLE RESERVATIONS FOR PRESIDENT'S DINNER (9 persons per table) 
TODAY (5:00:6:00) Dining Halls 




THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
John Abowd Dan Thornton Editor-in-Chief Business Manager
NEWS: 283·1715 EDITORIALS: 283-8661 Don Ruane BUSINESS: 283-7471 Joe Butler Executive Editor Advertising Manager 
Tuesday, February 13, 1973 
----------------------------~-------------------------­
SLC Getting Better 
This year's Student Life Council 
i' 

proving to be a more viable body than any of its predecessors. It has been meeting consistently without getting bogged down in Robert's Rules of Order, and is making use of the open meeting to encourage student participation. as it tackles important student life problems. 
The SLC started the year right by quickly defining four primary areas to 
I r investigate: alternative life styles in the halls, what steps should be taken if the' drinking law is lowered, how to avoid 
r 
r over-crowding in the halls, and selection of the next women dorms. It also established four committees to in­vestigate these areas: planning, hall life, campus life and rules. 
Planning and Rules Committees 
To date, the hall life and campus life have been most active and vocal, but we have heard little from the other two. What sort of progress is the planning committee making in the field of coed dorms, and what else is it investigating are two questions that should be an­swered soon. The rules committee has 
been virtually silent. What is its 
I recommendation in anticipation of a 
r change in the drinking law? This issue 
r ,. should be settled by the time that law is changed so that the transition will be smooth and troublefree. 
The campus life committee has per­formed well, although it lacks power to apply its recommendations. Its biggest contribution has been the list of halls which could have served the new women students next year. However, its prime choices, St. Ed's and Cavanaugh were passed over in favor of Breen Phillips and Farley, halls which were further down the list. The committee also recom­mended that women be required to remain on campus, but that they be able to move to other women's dorms. 
The Lottery System 
Equally powerless, but productive nonetheless, is the hall life committee. Yesterday it recommended a lottery system to determine who will live off campus next year. The lottery is better 
than the traditional grade point system, but complete details have not been made availalbe. No vote was taken because a quorum was not present. 
Details of the lottery system and other alternatives should be made public so that the campus, especially B-P and Farley residents, can inform their SLC representatives of their choice. Lan­dlords already are handling inquiries for 
next year and students should be given the opportunity as soon as possible to evaluate their chances of remaining on campus. It would be negligent of the SLC to delay this information the way the university delayed the announcement of dorms. 
Open Sessions 

Finally the open sessions have been attracting student imput. The SLC should continue its plan for a session concerning Security, and form a committee to work with the department to develop more effective plans involving student par­ticipation. 
Don Ruane 

111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111110111111111111111111111111111111111111 
daanesbury 

t:~arry trudeau 
ri?OH /He" GtJYS tlOWN liT 9/i/NV& Y!s !MR /1/11/) 6R!U, -rillS ONe '.5 §01!16 Of/T 
TO 1}{6' HGHORY OF 96R/~NO \Rt1SS€L~! 

America's Children 
First 



Impressions: 

:\iThe Children 
1 
..11 . , J; ... ry lutku. 

She couldn't have been more than three years old, but her lifestyle made her appear older. Her little frame was cloaked in a long ragged dress which fell on the tops of her bare feet. A dirty white shawl eovered her shoulders in the cool Mexico City night air. Behind the little girl sat her brother, wrapped in an old blanket, resting peacefully on the hard, cold cement sidewalk. 
We had just left an ex~ellent restaurant which catered to the Mexican upper.lass. The noise and happy laughter of the eating place filtered out to the street as the door closed behind us. In the instant that the door sealed shut, the noise was muffled, the street suddenly silent and she appeared from out of the shadows. ­
The dark brown eyes set in the deeply tanned face indicated that the little girl was half Indian and half Mexican. By ancestry she was shunted into the lowest crust of Mexican life. As she l'ame out of the shadows, she thrust a bright blue plastic piggy bank up at us. Our pesos thudded into the empty bank and she returned to the shadows without a smile or a nod or a change in expression. It was just another eold night. a few more pesos from American tourists. And the shadows beckoned her back. 
We walked through the bright, colorful streets of the Zona Rosa that night--our first night in the city. And little girls and ragged little boys beseeched us from every shadow, every corner. It's incredible how you are affected by this. It literally tears you apart to see these poor little children in that vast city of 8 million people--children without a bed or a home or a family. And equally incredible is how callous ~·ou 
ean oecome to the beggars after a few nights in the city. You sud­denly acquire the art of looking the other way, looking past them, walking faster, ignoring the situation completely. 
It strains every concept of Christianity that you've ever professed vour belief to. It's a tension and that tension best describes what Mexico City is about. It's a city of dichotomies tensions , vast dif­ferences. 
There is no real middle class in Mexico despite the fact that there are families that fit into the economic middle clasf, bracket. The dichotomy is between the very rich and the very pollr. 
. The poor are every where ... on the corners, in the stores and in the streets. Stopped motorists are besieged with newspapers, roses, lottery tickets, all for sale from children roaming the streets dodging the cars in the New York City-like traffic. Unless the motorists violently protest. they can find their windows or their entire cars washed while they sit at a red light and then payment is demanded. At nightfall. the children either return to the sidewalk or to the slums of the citv. 
The slums are amazing for nothing that we've ever seen in the US matches up to them. And interesting enough, a good portion of them ring Mexico City's International Airport where the jet-setters fly in awaiting their connections to Acapulco or Puerto Vallarta, LA or Miami. Or they step off their planes into cabs headed for the Zona Hosa and the plush high rise hotels of that district. 
The rich live on the outer reaches of the sprawling city. Their modest houses rival the Frank Lloyd Wright designs and their ehildren are sent to beautiful, spanking new schools. After they graduate, the good rich students leave the country for American universities. 
The rest of the students either find jobs or head for the two major universities of the city--University of Mexico or the Polvtechnic University. The University of Mexico is a hotbed of Mexican radical activity lt\l'asthe scene of student riots in 1968. Mexican police fired into the crowds and killed over 20 students just prior to the opening of the 1968 Olympic Games there. <The University is across the street from the Olympic Stadium and the Olympic Village.) 
Classes have not been held in the school for approximately 2 months. 
The students are continually on strike. Part of the reason is that many students are simply professional students. Why? One year's tuition amounts to $16. 
The main boulevards of Mexico are littered with gorgeous buildings all progressive in their style and design. Fantasitc murals front many of the buildings and the University of Mexico is 11 an architectural delight. 
At night, these streets radiate with the lights of the Christmas season. All the buildings seem to pulse with lights and flashes and glowing colors. Strands of lights criss-cross the streets lighting up everything. 
Yet the city of Mexico does not have enough electricity for all of its inhabitants. Tourism is the city's and country's largest industry and the extreme beauty, excitement, and careful planning of the country's department of tourism <e.g. Christmas decorations), bring the tourists in droves. 
But despite their fascination with the American dollar, there is an understandable hate of Americans. American troops have entered the city on numerous occasions and American businessmen have ex­ploited the country to an extreme. <It got so bad a few years ago that the government gobbled up all the gasoline stations and companies and formed PEMEX, the only gasoline company in Mexico.) Any Americans daring enough to attend the Independence day ceremonies run the risk of attack, humiliation, and embarassment. 
Dichotomies thrive in this exciting and magnificent city between the rich and the poor, the tourists and the natives, the country and the US, and the government and the people. It's a place of extremes. But no extreme in the city will hit you harder or stay with you longer than the first little girl in a ragged dress that you see. You too will go away wondering why. 
the observer 

Night Editor: Kathy Schwille Sports Night Editor: Vic Dorr Ass'! Night Editor: Robert Baker Typists: Barb Norcross, Tom Layout: Rip Van Winkle Modglin, Steve Roper Pictures: Jerome Night Controller: John Flannigan 

Mike, skip the ring, just marry mel 
Editorials printed in The Observer reflect the opinion of the writer on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial comment. 


Tuesday, February 13, 1973 the observer 
5 

a glorious mulligan stew 

mike baum 

Dick is introduced on page thirty-three. He is young, "alienated", and cannot accept his parents' view of the "perfect Catholic family." 
Page forty-eight recounts a "hippie marriage" in Washington Square Park. 
On seventy-seven we learn of fair Eileen, juvenile charmer, who rebelled against the Eucharist on the grounds that the sacramental wafer tasted bad. 
Back on page sixty-nine is the beginning of one of the epic sagas of the life of a brown and white cocker spaniel with the im­probable Irish name O'Gill. 
Sandwiched in between are the tales of .Jesus freaks. street walkers, compassionate students. Keenan Hall, infant children and -t2nd St.. New York, N.Y. 
The scenes are familiar, or ought to be, for thev are lifted from the pages of In The Kingd~m of The Lonely God by Rev. Robert (;riffin. C.S.C. 
His first book, In The Kingdom of The Lon<'1v God is a collection of twenty-seven of (;riffin's best essays, originally published at Notre Dame. Most have appeared on the pages of the Observer. 
Perhaps the best way to review this book is to explain why I intend to send a copy to mv friend. · 
Mv friend teaches and she writes and she help's people. She is a little lost in this world, and she told me a while back that she had left the Church because she felt that it could not abide her membership. The Church, she said. wanted to press everyone into molds. To conform. rathern than to confirm. To preserve the status quo. 
So I'll send her a copy of In The Kingdom 
of The Lonely God. 
For it is the author's intention to see 
people as individuals. Not classes, economic 
or employment groupings. None of your 
"average cross-sections," but individuals, 
each seen as a separate entity, each unique, 
each valuable. All citizens in one Kingdom. 
For this reason. the book is disjointed. The 
t•ssays were written over a long period. 
They vary between joy and gloom. A story 
~·oung men on their way to the Raymona, or 
some other den of sin in Manhattan, is juxtaposed with a narrative drawn from the Keenan Hall Urchin's Mass. 
A comforting letter to a young man at Notre Dame, tortured by loneliness and fear. rests beside the story of an eventually successful suicide in New York, and both precede a fantasy of the uncreation of the universe. 
Contrariwise. there are stories of the whimsical life of scandalous Darby O'Gill, Fr. Griffin's misguided pet, and the delicious image of the super-relevant nun, "wearing levis and a bumper sticker reading. ',Joy is God's Other Name,' who is hustling her way over to the motherhouse for her community's production of Hair." 
All of these tossed together in a glorious mulligan stew of a book. Even the publishers' half-hearted attempt to divide the book into three sections, presumably to lend thematic unity to the parts since a unified whole was a priori impossible, is not noticeably successful. 
In another book this would be a weakness. Here. I think, it is a strength for it em­phasises the variety of experiences. This book is about people, remember, and people do not conform well at all. They don't particularly lend themselves to static themes, and neither does this book. The one unifying factor, as someone pointed out, is the presence of the author, and nothing more is needed. 
Since my friend likes people, I shall send her a copy of the book. 
Since she feels lost, I shall send her a copy. for the book is <oftentimes, all generalizations are wrong, including this onel about those who are lost, or merely misplaced. 
Kingdom touches all 

Old men in New York, homosexuals at Notre Dame. flower chidren anywhere--­Kingdom touches them. James Carroll, a writer at Boston University, remarks, "He remembers. one might say, the forgotten people. When I forget or am forgotten myself. I hope a Robert Griffin is there." 
Or a reasonable facsimile. 
An interesting factor is that Griffin never condemns anyone. A lousy judge is Robert Griffin. but one hell of a parole com­missioner. 
Even Simon, the 42nd Street beggar who would purloin hosts from the church wholesale to retail at two dollars apiece, prompts not a prayer for those who desecrate the Sacrament but rather the thought that perhaps this is how God cares for the needs of one who all else have forgotten. 
!I must. incidently, ask Father if his name 
was really Simon. or if that was a play on &imony. Anyone who, working in a parish on 42nd Street, can refer to the "House of the Hisen Son" is capable of anything.) 
Since my friend is a writer, I shall send her a copy of the book, for the essays are charming. Charming, that is, in the sense of witchcraft. The reader is caught l,lP in webs of language that I cannot •attempt. Ad­jectives and verbs in Fr. Griffin's hands are what savory, sage, rosemary and thyme were to an earlier age of enchanters. Ingredients for a love potion. 
There is feeling of verse to Griffin's writing at times--as though it were poetry that has been compressed to a prose style to save space. To illustrate: 
Once in a summer when you were sixteen, you walked with a girl through patches of daisies and wild strawberries in a meadow close to the sea. 
Another friend of mine read In The Kingdom of The Lonely God and remarked, "You know, a good book will maybe make me laugh a little or cry or something. This did both." I think this is the best estimate I've heard. 
And so for all these reasons I shall send a copy to my lost writer-teacher, for if the Church holds the allegiance of such as Fr. Hobert Griffin. perhaps it should have her blessing also. This, anyway, is my logic. 
There are faults in the edition. It is in paperback. but then I suppose hardbound would be too expensive. I question the value of some of the pictures. It is illustrated with 
seventeen photographs, a few of which are ill-composed, ill-printed, or generally out of place. 
Pragmatically, the title is printed in deep purple against grey, guaranteed unreadable on nine out of ten bookstands. This is to be corrected in future printings. 
As a footnote, there should be recognition given to the compiler who supplied the essays--Miss Johanna Hawes. It is missing from this edition. 
Foreword by Hesburgh 
The foreward is written by Fr. Theodore 
M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., President of the University of Notre Dame. I am not im­pressed by the foreword. However it is, one might say, politic. 
lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll101111 HI1110 1111111111111111111 
In the Kingdom of the Lonely God Fr. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 
Paulist Press $2.95 
111111111111111UIIIIUIIIIIIIIIImiiiiiiiDI-IIIIIIIDJIIIIIIIIIIIII 




the story of the thalidomide babies 

karl kem 

About ten years ago, a wonder drug, a area where this move was most severely felt caused by the company's indifference sedative called Distaval. was introduced to was in England, where the English version concerning the safe conception of life. the public. The active ingredient contained of "justice" gives consumers of any sort Subsequent to this decision, a number of 
in this wonder drug was Thalidomide. little legal recompense for corporate supermarket chains refused to do business 
llistaval was marketed in England, West mishaps. with Distillers. Both Distillers' insurance 
(;ermany..Japan and the United States as Some sort of justice finally began to be firm and banking establishment expressed
"totally harmless for pregnant women". realized in September, when the London their shock and outrage publicly uponOver ten thousand infants were born with Times published a number of articles reception of copies of the sum the company 
horrible birth defects, ranging from limited bringing the facts of Thalidomide to the wanted to offer to the victims of their mobility of limbs to a total absence of limbs, public eye. Once again, Distillers sought cataclysmic mistake. all undoubtedly resulting from incomplete respite in England's outdated legislative testing of this drug. maze. claiming that the articles were 
Distillers Corp. reconsider
libelous. The English interpreted this as a stalling tactic and began a boycott of In the wake of England's furor, Distillers
Distillers Corp. at fault 

Distillers' products, including Johnny Corp. decided it had better make a new Walker and Dewars scotches, and offer. The company augmented its previous The production and marketing agent for Tanqueray, Gordon's and Booth's gins. offer. to make a total offer of $120,000 perDistaval is a corporate giant called family. This stipend is equivalent to underDistillers Corp.. In the past fiscal year, Almost simultaneously, the major $(i a day and was expected to cover meals,Distillers Corp. collected a profit of over stockholders in the company publicly dothing. housing and both orthopedic and$150.000.000. It was the decision of the criticized the drug. Under this public 
prosthetic devices.
corporate heads that each family with a duress. Distillers' administration increased child disabled as a consequence of the use of its offer to $70,000 per family. This averages Once again. this offer included two Distaval would be offered the sum of $20,000, out to approximately $3 per day for the food, stipulations: the company would pay over a with the stipulation that unless every family clothing. housing and complete medical period of ten years, and they would make no (;prmany. pften many thousands of miles with a complaint would agree to this figure, necessities of a totally incapacitated human provision for inflation, despite spiraling and dollars awav. no one would receive it. The Distillers Corp. being. The company also re-introduced the nwdical costs and equally spiraling com­In Italy and South America, little is known officials are of the opinion that the total and stipulation that they would pay this sum pany profits. This burden would have cut about these children, ,t•xcept in those permanent disabling of a human life due to over a period of ten years, and only if they Distillers Corp.'s projected profits for the families which produced them. and must the negligence of their company would be were able to claim it as tax deductible (as next fiscal year to $110,000,000. spend the majority of their lives and in­compensated for by this allotment. can be done with charitable donations). The_ There are a number of figures available coml'S trying to rectify a mistake by a drug 
At the time the offer was made, most of government quickly vetoed this attempt to !'or comparison to the financial assistance manufacturer that clears more profit in a the families with the less fortunate of these make the taxpayers share. the burden proffered by Distillers: In the United States, single year than the presidents of the United congenital malformation victims had long States will in the next seventy-five years.
a child received $800,000 from a United since spent the amount of money offered in 
States company without any threat of court The more fortunate of these children are order to meet debts incurred as a result of minus only an arm or a leg. The less for­
involvement. Still without threats of mechanical devices designed and needed to lawsuits. many others were given large tunate children lack not only both arms and replace non-existent limbs, specialized sums far in excess of Distillers' offer. This both legs. but also lack a working mind. medical treatments, and long, arduous compensation was accomplished by These children are helpless individuals. sessions of physical and mental therapy. All Hichardson-Merrell, an American firm that They cannot even be called vegetables, this in an often futile attempt to restore independently examined the safety of because a vegetable can feed itself, and normalcy to their children's lives. 
Thalidomide in their own clinics prior to the these cruelly misshapen children caimot. ­
Food and Drug Administration's ob­lt took the pressure that only the public struction of its distribution in the United can exert upon a manufacturer to secure Minimal sum States. any justice for these children. But help is still badly needed. These infants were Chemie Grunenthal of West Germany and brought into the world without even the 
In light of these great costs, many of the AB Astraa of Scandanavia, after long legal slimmest chance to lead normal lives. You parents were willing to settle for any sum, struggles. agreed to pay negligible sums. In can help them by simply making your voice hoping to relieve the pressure of their debts. Ireland. neither the 84 located Thalidomide 
heard in their behalf. It takes only the time When some parents realized that this sum children nor their parents have received · needed to write to the address below to find 

was minimal compared to their total costs anything. Chemie Gruenthal offered bet­out how. Want to help them? Write to: umd brought it to the attention of the Wl'en several hundred and a few thousand 
Donald Rosscourts l. Distillers Corp. reacted by trying to dollars on the condition that the parents first 

P .0. Box 14189

have the courts remove the children's spend their own minimal funds in order to Washington, D.C.
parents as their legal representatives. The transport their victimized ctiildren to 
20044 


Letters••• ... on amnesty, Tee Kwon Do and others 
Amnesty  crucial distinction for any civilized ~tatt.•.  
Editor:  Sincerelv vours in my Christ. Your Christ.·  
and President Nixon's Christ.  
1 wonder if I might ''release" to ,·our Letters to the Editor column tlw following letter which I sent to F;tllwr Tooht•y:  .lames .1. Rakowski Associate Professor  
lh•ar Father Toohey,  The Observer  
... ..  ,\\though recognizing your good int<·nt ions. I found your letter to l'n•sidt•nt Nixon both offensive and ;t t !Past as indiscriminating as the position it tTiticizes. It \\'as offensive because you tried to usurp the Gospel for your own side of what is essentially a question of political judgment. 1,\nd I usl' the word ''political" in tlw good sl'nse of having to do with thP govt>rning of a state. l It is l'\'id£'nl that in his statement on :11nnestv 1\lr. Nixon was talking about li.•gal forgiveness. not per­sonal forgiveness. if only because \\'lwther 1\lr. Nixon forgives per­sonallv or not is irrelevant to the issue ;lt hand. Now perhaps Christ was also talking about legal forgivl'ness. but. if so. you could have just as well delivered your little sermon to any judge who st•ntences a lawbreaker to jail. Sun•lv vou find it offensively self­righteous when someone. Vice­President Agnew for example, st>ems to accuse certain people of lat·king loyalty because they disagree with him on policy issues. Do ,·ou not see that some would find. it more offensively self­righteous for you to seem to accuse Pn•sident Nixon of lacking Christianity because he disagrees \\'ith ~·ou on a policy issue? S('condly. I found your letter indiscriminating. In our society there are all sorts of people who consdentiously object to all sorts of laws. Some object to the draft law when used to recruit men for a war thev consider unjust. Some object to civil rights laws. some to anti-trust laws. When such a person decides that he must in conscience resist the law, there st>em to he at least four alter­natives opt>n to him. two of which st>em to me to be honorable. and two dishonorable: l<'irst. a person can violate his conscience and obey the law. This st>ems dearly dishonorable. SPl'Ondlv. one can disobey the law and submit to the legal punish­nwnt. This seems honorable. !And 1 IW\'l' never heard Mr. Nixon call it dishonorable. l Third!\·. one can disobey the law and l'Xpt;l'l to avoid or be pardoned lrom the ll•gal punishment. This sPt•ms to me to be dishonorable ;111d anti-social. for it is essentially unrTasnnable. selfish. and arrogant. To me it seems clear that a statt• cannot grant legal torgivt>rwss to everyone who ··!aims to have violated a law out of ,·nnscit•rwt•. But the person who pursut•s this course seems to think that hP is. in his wisdom. special. ;md that the law can grant torgin•npss to him. (Can you n·all~· prove. Father. that this coursl' of al'tion is "supported by the Bible and Christian tradition"'' l Fourthlv. one can decide that onl' t•an rio longer subscribe to a sol'it•t,· which enforces such a law. and ll;avt• the country. This seems to ml' to be honorable. Such a rwrson. however. would not be intl•n•sted in returning unless the country repudiates the laws and attitudes in question. President Nixon seems to fear that granting amnesty would be unfair to those who served in the armed forces. You seem to fear that not granting amnesty would be unfair to those who fled. I fear that granting amnesty would be unfair to those who went to jail, and th:.t such an amnesty would demolish the distinction between humble. honorable civil disobedience and arrogant, dishonorable civil disobedience, a  Editor: Like the writer of your "No ('hoice" Pditorial of Februarv 5, I rind it difficult to understand why Saint 1\larv's students could allow thl' }paper' to disappear from our l'ampus. The current students must not realize for how long the staff has been involved in efforts to have proportionate, financial assistance from their women's l'ampus. A belated thank-you on m~· own behalf for the paper. Since the "blackout of news" falls now also on faculty, I want to congratulate you on all the service you have provided to both cam­puses. Your range of coverage. t>specially of late-breaking stories, has always surprised me. and I have been much impressed with ~·our firm policy to contact persons l'Oncerned so far as was oossible. The recent issue on Co!l~ct!~ Bargaining was outstanding in it£. range and perspective. but not the only such example. No one needs to refer to inadequacies. since the staff l'ach semester has been honest and candid in evaluating its own policy and performance. Whether individuals agreed with or approved of The Observer, no one can fail to notice how seriously \'our articles have been taken­~vhat better compliment could you have'1 With the editor-in-chief, I am reluctant to believe Saint Mary's students have not been reaching for the paper on its arrival, quite as much as our faculty. I ap­preciate especially Mr. Abowd's concern for those things which tmite rather than separate, above all for students of the two cam­puses. Surely it is not a vote for a "Big Brother" who would finance the paper and "manage" its opinion-slant? With the resurgence of YAF on Notre Dame's campus. could it be that SMC students have a total blanket of conservatism. and are opting for Mr. Nixon's banishing of the Washington Post? I have not happened to hear all that much passion for the Equal Rights Amendment and its passage, but pt>rhaps there is a vast un­derground position I have not noticed" <The real truth is, Maria (;allagher will be leaving and what's the paper without her-it is the only explanation. l Thank vou. then. for the years of my copy of the paper from the days of its underground begirlnings, and thank vou for all tliat has helped to kl•ep me more aware of student attitudes. student concerns, and the student-university perspective. Very sir.cerely, Sister Franzita Kane TaeKwonDo Editor: On the Observer of February 4, there was an article by Mike Lilienthal titled, "Is Tae Kwon Do the super Karate?". That article could lead the Notre Dame people to complete misunderstanding about Tae Kwon Do. I, as a black hell degree holder, feel strong n•sponsibility to make sure that people know what is good and wrong. Obviously. he thinks I am very wrong. but he didn't even try to see me and discuss about our different view points. I don't know him, I haven't met him and I don't un­ derstand how he knows me so well. Dt.•ep ocean never shallows. Nobody is serious about a puppy's 11layirtg. Why didn't he use all pages for me? I am a member of United Tae Kwon Do Federation and Korea TaeKwonDo Association. I am an inlernationally qualified master instructor residing in U.S.A. My brother is the President of United Tae Kwon Do Federation which has five big branches and nine university clubs in America. I am a master instructor of United Tae Kwon Do Federation. I am in charge of seven university Tae Kwon Do Clubs-Harvard, Rad­diffe. Stanford. Univ. of Mass., Boston Univ., Boston College, and New England College. During the vacation, I teach the instrue tors from the seven university clubs. After that I send them out to their own campuses to teach the students. I met Mr. Hidetaka Nishiyama. a \lth degree black belt and the author of "Karate: the Art of Empty Hand Fighting." 'He dt>fined Karate as a physical art, a sport and self-defence against any would-be assailants. Tae Kwon Do is much different from Karate. Tae Kwon Do is infused with profound philosophy of Taoism. It is an accumulation of \\'ell-organized and rationalized unarmed combat techniques. "Tae Kwon Do" written in Chinese characters. is pronounced as "Twei Chuan Tao." "Twei" nwans "feet"; "Chuan" means "fists": and "Tao", means "way, principal. truth. or reality." The nwtaphysical connotation given Tao in Tao-te Ching by Lao Tzu, the founder of Taoism. is as follows: "Tao is the mother and an­cestor of all things .... It exists before heaven and earth.... All things depend on it for life .... In its substance it is invisible, inaudible, vague and l'lusive.... It is one, a unity behind all multiplicity .... It is single like an uncarved block that has not been split up into individual pieces or covered up with superficial adornment.... It is everlasting and im­mutable.... It is all per­vasive.... It follows t•verywhere.... It operates t•vervwhere and is free from dangel'.. .. While vacuol.ls, it is never exhausted.... It depends on nothing .... It is natural, for it comes into existance by itself and is its own principle for being .... It is nameless, and if one is forced to give it a name. He can only call it "great." that is unlimited in space and time.... It is nameless because it is not a  concrete. individual thing or dl'scribable in particular terms.... Above all. it is non­lwing .... All things in the world l'Ome from being; and being l'Oml's from non-being .... " Tae Kwon Do is not a sport. That's why I always tell my l'ludents to be humble and gentle. This semt>ster I put many small posters on campus. Everybody can st•e two men sparring each other. It is the wall painting of what we l'all today free sparring in the princely grave of King San Sang of Kokun·o in 209 A.D. Taoi'sm is imported in about 600 B.C. Now historians compute the limP of the origin of Tae Kwon Do as 2500 ,·ears long. That means Tae !\\von 'no has 2500 vears long history. For my students and other pt>ople. I am giving seven <]Uestions: 1. Whv should there be a symmetry in t'he forms'? 2. Whv should the initial and final stances be the same'? :L Wh\· should the forms consist of both attacks and blocks? .J. !low should the forms be per­formt>d'? s. Wh~· are the properly-performed forms beautiful? li. Whv should there be different fonns for different ranks? 7. Who are entitled to devise the forms·> I don't want to talk about lt>chni<]ues of TaeKwonDo. I, as a !ith degree black belt with ten and half vears black belt history, don't have a mind to denounce his thoughtless attitude. He is only a brown belt. It takes this much time to understand Tae Kwon Do. Then how can he talk about this IJrofound Tae Kwon Do as well as other self-defences? liP said that He studied Tae !\won Do. Tang Soo Do, and Judo. But they don't teach us to be treacherous. They teach us philosophy. There is a saying in Korea: "Even though you have a trouble with your tongue. You should tell the truth." I ex­perienced this case many times. Finally. if I am forced to relate Tal' Kwon Do to Karate I'll simply sav Tae Kwon Do is the Super K:irate. I humbly dedicate one section of Lae-te Ching, to the reader and Mike to edify. "The best man is like water. Water is good: it benefits all things and does not compete with them. It dwells in lowly places that all disdain. This is why it is so near Tao. The best man in his dwelling loves the earth. In his heart. he loves what is profound. In his associations, he loves humanity. . In his words. he loves faithfulness.  In J,!overnml'nt. he loves order. In handling affairs, he loves l'Om petence. In his activities. he loves t iml'lessness. It is because he does not compete that he is without reproach." Thanks. Yours truly, Dong Sik Kim Mr. Dirt Editor: Tlw time has again come for the l'lt>clion of Senior Fellow. In past vpars. this award has become a inockerv. With the election of such pt•rsons. as William Kunstler and Father Ikrrigan. the award has sunk to the depths of degradation. The dasses of '71 and '72 voted as if thl'\. had received a cram course in n•lt•vancv from the Hight Helevant \\.illiam Toohey. The titnl' has come for a change. and it is up to us, as Seniors. to bring about this change. We should dt>ct a man. not a poor excuse for one. It is only right that this person he rt>presentative of our high ideals. Ll't us unite. and by uniting, raise this award's standards of Pxcellence. (;l'!ling down to the Hard Core facts. it is apparent that Mr. Dirt is tht• man to be elected. If we are true to ourselves, we know that Mr. Dirt is one of our own. Having been dirtballs for four vears. we are in sad shape if we cannot recognize this fact. Anv one of us not lending his support 'to Bob Sauer's cam­paign deserves to have his Senior Bar Card revoked for the rest of thl' yt>ar. One can only hope that Bob Sauer will be successful in his l'f'forts to bring Mr. Dirt to campus lwfore commencement exercises. As Bob said. Mr. Dirt could lead the Spring Panty Raid. A new tradition could be started with a Spring Death March led by Mr. Dirt. The possibilities are limitless. and it is up to us to make this last semester at the Dome a great one. Let us get down to basics. Let us get down to DIRT! Fellow Dirtballs Unite! VOTE OIRT1 !! 1 ! Yours in DIRT. Jim "Scooter" Evans  

------------------------------------.......__ 
Tuesday, February 13, 1973 the observer 7 

'73 Mardi Gras not last one on ND campus 
by David Rust Senior Staff Reporter 

All rumors that this year's Mardi Gras was Notre Dame's last are false said this year's Mardi Gras general chairmen following the conclusion of the 1973 record­breaking event that hosted ap­proximately 5000 people. 
"I consider it to have been a good success," said Mardi Gras co­chairman and senior John Duffy. "It was at least more successful than some had anti~ipated." 
Although final figures will not b.e available for several weeks, total profit might be -as high as $10,000. 
Duffy reported that money taken in at the door at Stepan Center during the first Sat!.!rday of Mardi Gras, amounting to $8500, broke all records for any Mardi Gras one night take. 
According to Raffle chairman Tony Malench, total take from the raffle was $14,500, ,yielding a profit of $6500. 
"That was a little lower than last vear's," said Malench, "but it was certainly better than breaking even." 
He too "seriously doubted" that next year would see no Mardi Gras at Notre Dame. 
"Before hand some didn't think the raffle tickets would sell," explained Malench concerning his aspect of Mardi Gras operations, "but sales did pick up." 
Malench pointed to some se,ction leaders as reasons why the sales did not go quite as well as ex­
pected. Profit from them is ex­
pected to be slightly lower than ·that compiled last year. 
"It seems that in many cases 
student interest was lacking," said 
Malench. "Some section leaders 
didn't even get around to handing 
out their <ticket) packets." 

Tom Plavac, Fischer senior, sold 
200 books of raffle tickets and thus 
earned for the fourth year in a row 
the distinction of being the Mardi 
Gras raffle's most successful 
s~lesman. 

George Coughlin, parent of a St. 
Mary's student, won a 1973 Buick 
Riviera as this year's first place 
prize winner. 

Keenan. student Chris Gracewon 
a ten speed bike aithesecond prize 


Text of Schaffer's abortion statement 
The abortion decisions of the Supreme Court will no doubt bring some pressure on Catholic hospitals to permit the wholesale abortions that will become the rule in other hospitals-but this will be no harder to cope with than the pressures Catholic hospitals were under in the past on account of their stand on therapeutic abortions, 
sterilizations,· and the like. Besides resisting these pressures, it is important for knowledgeable people to assist in preparing and supporting legislation to meet the criteria laid down by the Court and so save what lives the judges will permit. 
But the lawyers I know who were involved in the abortion cases on the side of the babies are ~f the opinion that the most important thing to do now is to make every attempt to bring about a constitutional amendemerit overruling the decisions of the Court. 
My first reaction is that the effort is worthy but unlikely to succeed. My friends are more . optimistic; they mention as prominent encouragement the rather significant defeat of abortion "reform" in referenda last fall in Michigan and, I believe. North Dakota. The fact that these able lawyers <including our own Charles E. Rice) are willing to make the try leads me to conclude that it is worth our time and support. 
A separate reason for making the try is that the Court's opinion is even graver than the newspaper reports last week indicated. Those reports led one to believe that state regulation of abortion would be upheld as to unborn children who were in the second and third trime:>ters of fetal development. The opinions themselves indicate, however, that the practical effect of what the Court has done will be abortion on demand for the entire pregnancy; it will encompass, in1other words, both what we have traditionally called abortion and what the doctors sometimes have called embryotomy--the destruction of a child ready to be born. 
The Court's guidelines on regulation from the third to sixth month require that the State predicate regulation solely on "the preservation and protection of maternal health." <The use of "maternal" in this context is ironic, even for a tax lawyer like Blackmun, J. l . 
As a practical matter, a doctor who wants to do so can perform an abortion under this rubric and find his reasons later. 
From the sixth month to.birth, regulation may be keyed to the protection of the baby's life. but that regulation is limited by the requirement that the mother's health not be endangered. It has been the usual · ex­perience under "health of mother" statutes that abortion is performed any time a doctor can be found to do it; "health" has been given the broadest possible construction; as a result, abortion is as fully available as any birth control technique is. The only restraint is the physician's sensitivity to public relations. 
In addition to these limits, the Court in­dicates that its final-trimester standard is limited to prospects of "meaningful life outside the mother's womb." The next step under a standard like that is to forbid regulation of abortion when the unborn child is thought. by doctor and parents or both, to be disabled or retarded. The step beyond-­something we thought of as hyperbole when I -.vas debating abortion a couple of years ago. but which now seems depressingly real--is a constitutional right to destroy retarded and disabled people after they are born or when they become too old or too 'lSPless to be tolerated·. 
It might be added that these thoughts come from a dedicated libertarian who: (1) has been a member of the American Civil Liberties Union since he became a lawyer; 
(2) is a member of the Advisory Board and has been a director of the Indiana Civil Liberties Union; and (3) carried these sentiments to the A.C.L.U. as a member of its committee on the abortion of the viable fetus. 
Thomas L. Shaffer Dean Notre Dame Law School 


Giovanni will speak here,..--------. 
Nikki Giovanni, the princess of black poetry, is appearing at the library auditorium tonight at 8:00. p.m. 
Acclaimed for her books in­cluding Black Feeling, Black 'Talk, and Re:Creation, a recording of Giovanni's poetry, Truth Is On Its Way, was among the country's best-selling albums in 1971. 
Born in knoxville, Tennessee Giovanni was raised in Cincinnati' Ohio. After graduating from Fisk University with honors in 1967, she became an Associate Professor oof Writing at Rutgers· Univer:sity. 

Europe and Africa, lectured taught and written on such divers~ themes as Aretha Franklin John Lindsay and her social ~orker family in Tennessee. 

WhAT'S ThE 
REliGious liFe lil{e? 
Ask file .Mtn W6o Kn•w 
Cutact: 
Fr. Aadrew Cifemi, 0. P11•. HIIJ Crus HaiJ. 107 .UNO tell: 283-8185 

PLANNING 
TO VISIT 
BRITAIN 


BRITRAIL PASS 
NOW AVAILABLE FROM BRITRAii..'S NEW CHICAGO OFFIGE 
Experience the service, 
comfort, and convenience the 
BritRail Pass can provide 
during your visit to Britain ­
and at truly economieal prices. 
For your free copy of "'Train 
Travel Values 1973" please 
write 
BRITRAIL TRAVEL 

INTERNATIONA{ INC. 
Dept. S.N. 13 
Suite 1212 
333 N. Michigan Ave. 
Chicago, Ill. 60601 

or contact your local Travel Agent 
I:Jl: II British Ra11J AGreat lklish 11Mstial8ill 
spot and Lyons resident Bill 
Macauley won the student prize, a Suzuki 500 motorcycle. · 
"This won't be our last Mardi Gras. "·said co-chairman Duffy. "I believe the .rumors that it would be stemmed from a WSND report broadcast a couple days before the start of the Mardi Gras that we were operating $12,000 in the red." 
"lt'·s correet that it could have happened that there would be no more Mardi Gras," added Duffy. "J:Iowever, I was totally pleased with our success on this one. The 
only thing I can figure <about the 
WSND report) is that there was 
alot of speculation, and somehow 
the $12,000 figure was concocted 
out of that." 
Although a senior, Duffy said he 
would make one change in Mardi 
Gras procedure for next year. 
"The only thing I was unhappy wi~h w~~ raffle ticket sa~es," Duffysaid. If we could htt a wider scope, say we could get up the organization to really sell to the ·South Bend areala~dAlumni, then I believe we'd be better off at the 
end." 
• 

.... 
• 
-


Tuesday, February 13, 1'/73
the observer
8 

Irish fencers lose perfect season 
by Eugene John Fineran, Jr. them off their feet. We didn't get to All American and NCAA champ Ty The Notre Dame Fencing Team Simmons in foil. but I figured we 
ran into stiff competition on wouldn't." DeCicco went on. Saturday in Detroit, and, as Coach "But we got to their All Mike Dl'Cicco told his squad Aml'rican sabre man, Blake, once, 
yl'sterday in practice, "We are as I figured we had to. Still we lost going to have to start a new too many 5-4 matches, and you sl'ason." can't fence a team like Detroit and 
The Irish saw their dream of an lose the bouts you are supposed to undefeated season slip away as win." he concluded. they dropped two meets with two The match was tied at 13-13 with national powers, wayne State and North Carey and Detroit's Kenney l>l'lroit. 17-11 and 14-13, while battling down to the last touch in lwating Chicago 24-3. The 1.2 day ('pee. However. Carey did not )pft the team with a 6-2 record quite make it, losing 5-4. "North's going into this weekend's meet loss took the wind out of us for with Ohio State and Michigan Wayne State. but you can't fault stall'. two more formidable op-him. Ten other guys had a chance 
porwnts. to give us the extra bout, but they 
"Th(•se kids have a lot of pride," didn't." the coach added. said the disappointed coach. Against Wayne State, the Irish "Thl'Y wanted that undefeated Wl're up at one point 6-5 and tied at 
sl'ason. hut saw it slip away after ll-8, but then the Detroiters won 10 the lktroit loss. When we fenced of the last II for the victory. Waynl' State, they were down and "Wayne State is an outstanding 
• figured what was left for them this team. They buckled down when s(•ason to accomplish? That's why they had to and won the last five in 1 told them it is a new season from sabre. despite Jim Mulligan's and lwre on in." (;eorge Viamontes' victories over 
The Dl'troit match was a replay their All-American Steve Danosi. I as far as final score with last would have bet any amount we ~·par's. The epee and foil squads could have beat those other two in won their portions, 5-4, but the sabre." DeCicco said. sabre could not quite muster Against Chicago, the Irish were ('Jlough touches to defeat Detroit's in control all the way, posting a 9..() 
the one bout against Detroit, I
strong sabres. losing 6-3. sweep in epee along with 8-1 and 7-2 
would not have been surprised if
"In DPtroit. we were fencing the victories in sabre and foil­
\H' had beaten Wayne State,"
national champions, and con-respe_ctively as the Irish coach DeCicco said.
sidering the outcome, we fenced substituted freely. 







OBSERVER
"W(• have a lot of young people
Jim Donaldson k=========================::==========================================================================l 

experience-wise. Roy Seitz and Viamontes are winning and producing better than I expected. 
SPORTS

l{oy fenced well against Detroit,
The Irish Eye 

but lost two 5-4 matehfs. I know he is better than that. He just has to mature a little bit more." 
============================================:================================================================== 

Playoff patter 
After watching Notre Dame thrash his club 3-3 Friday night, Colorado College hockey coach Jeff Sauer remarked, "I still don't think they're 
"Vrestlers earn weekend split

playing as well as they should with the talent they have." . Sauer. the WCHA's Coach-of-the-Year in 1972, knows his hockey but, in At Hocek capped the night's win. his 21st against one loss.
by L:"fty Ruschmann

view of the Tigers' 3-19 record this season, his comment seemed action in characteristic fashion, Tlw Bulldogs, whose 8-3 dual­somewhat presupmtuous, at least after the first game of the series. Heavyweight AI Rocek kept his pinning heavyweight Rex An­meet log included wins over 
Notre Dame seemed determined to prove Sauer's thesis during the first victory streak alive at 21 -over the derson after wearing him down for national powers Northwestern and forty minutes of Saturday night's rematch, however. Whatever the weekend as the Notre Dame a !i-0 lead. A second-period escape, Nl•w Mexico. controlled Saturday'!> reason--overconfidence, fatigue because of the altitude, or sloth--Notre wrestling squad divided a pair of takedown and penalty, on top of a match from the outset. Kelly Best Dame was outplayed by Colorado College to the tune of 6-3 and was home meets, coming from behind first-period takedown, accounted 1118) and Donnie Williams 026),dangerously close to losing two important points in the tight WCHA race. to upset MacMurray State, 33-13, for Hoeck's scoring. who represented the Bulldogs at 
But the Irish began to jell in the third period and blitzed the Tigers for on Friday night, then falling victim Hoeck prevented his teammates last year's NCAA finals, recorded five goals to post ·an 8-6 victory. Ian Williams, Ric Schaefer, Ray to a powerful Drake team, 39-3, on from being blanked by Drake by a pin and decision for an early 10..()DeLorenzi. Mike Dunphy and Paul Regan scored as Notre Dame upped Saturday afternoon. scratching out a 3-2 decision over ll'ad. while Greg Guess (150) and its league record to 12-8 (34 points). The Irish swept the last five heavyweight Don Bonner. Rocek Tom Swoyer (190) also recorded 
"I was very encouraged to see the club fight back like that," said Irish Pvents against MacMurray-three broke the ice to take a 1-0 lead in pins for Drake. coach "Lefty" Smith. "That shows the degree of mental toughness in a of them by pins-to storm back the middle round, but fell victim to 
The Irish travel to Ohio for a pair

team. You've got to be impressed by a bunch of guys that can rally." from a 13-6 deficit to overwhelm a Bonner reversal early in the of wl'ekend dual meets, facing
Sweeping the Tigers was virtually a necessity for Notre Dame which is the visitors. MacMurray jumped to third to fall behind 2-1. But"Ace's" Akron on l''riday and John Carron; striving to finish among the top four teams and secure a home-ice ad­an early 11-0 lead when 118-pound escape and accumulated time winner of the National Catholic vantag<! for at least one playoff series. The Irish were well aware of that .Jeff Alvis pinned Marc Honquillo advantage were enough for the Tournament, on Saturday.and prior to the start of Saturday's final period. at (): :n of the final period after 
"There was no real magic involved," Smith said. "There was just the accumulating an 11-5 advantage in 

Sherk, O'Connor, Krathaus,

idea that we reatized that, if we lost, we'd really be in bad shape. Then points. thl' opportunituties that we'd been having and not capitalizing on in the Irish co-captain Mike Martin first two periods, we started to get." (126), returning from the injured 
Kane pace ND swim win 

"I thought we took command," Smith continued. "We forced their list. decisioned Tom Millar, 11-7, 
by Peter McHugh Foster reversed their earlier

mistakes." posting three take-downs and a 
finishes in sweeping the three­
the second period

Notre Dame remained in the thick of the five-team fight for the first near-fall in to Sherk. Kane, Krathaus, and meter dive which insured the
fashion a 9-2 lead which stood up
four places with its twin victories over the Tigers. The Irish are now in O'Connor may not be Miller, \"ictory.
the rest of the way. Ken Gleuck of
fifth place, one point behind Michigan State, their opponent next weekend Crowley, Layden, and Stuhldreher, St. Bonaventure began the 
MacMurray then defeated 134­
in East Lansing, twobehind'Michigan Tech (36 points), three in t5ack of but they continued to dominate scoring with a win in the 400-yard
pound Steve Brischetto by an 18-5
Wisconsin (37) and six in arrears of league-leading Denver (40). Notre Dame swimming in Four medley relay. Sherk's record "We have 16 points left and we figure we've got to get 14 of those to wind count. Bleuck was able to score Horsemen-like style by leading the breaker and Andy Wallach's third 
three near-falls against Brischetto, Irish to a 71-42 victory over St. place in the 1000 yard freestyle
up with a spcit l,in the top four," Smith surmised. 

but could not register a pin. Bona venture Saturday at the gave Notre Dame the lead.
Colorado College was the last "soft touch" on the Irish schedule. After 
Trailing 10-3, Notre Dame sent loser's pool. In the 200-yard freestyle Kanenext weekend's four-point series as MSU, Notre Dame hosts Wisconsin in 

142-pound Dave Boyer to face The quartet, who among them took first with O'Connor trailing.
another four-point set and concludes the regular season with a pair of 

previously unbeaten John Wator. own nine varsity records, bettered Krathaus captured the 50-yard
games at Minnesota-Duluth, worth eight points. Boyer. who registered a take-down freestyle with Rich Fitzsimmons
one record clocking, added twoHeating the Spartans won't be easy, especially in light of the 8-5 and 14-5 

in l'ach of the first two periods, meet marks, and scored 36 of taking third. Ed Graham placeddrubbings the Irish handed Amo Bessone's sextet a couple of weeks ago 
built up a 6-2 lead and weathered Notre Dame's points as the tankers third in the 200-yard individual 
at the ACC. After Notre Dame, the ,Spartans play for eight points at Wator's third-period rally to earn a won their sixth meet against three ml'dley before the Bonnies couldDenver. host cellar-dwelling Michigan in a mid-week, two-point game 
!i-5 upset decision. George Murray setbacks. regain the lead. But followingand wrap up the year with a home-ice, eight-point series against Colorado 
(150) retaliated for MacMurray, John Sherk, a senior from Notre Dame's one-meter divingCollege. blanking Pat O'Connor, 5..(), an Dearborn Heights, Michigan, \·ictory, St. Bonaventure failed to l\lichigan Tech has only 12 points left to play for, battling North Dakota, opening-round takedown and topped all. performances by muster a serious challenge. Michigan and Denver for four points each. Tech plays the Sioux on the middle-stanza reversal deciding breaking his own record in the Altogether fourteen swimmers road but the other games will be in Houghton. the match.· 1000-yard freestyle with a 10:38.5 went on to score for the Irish while 
Wisconsin, unbeaten on hometice, list an eight-pointer in the Dane Hich Gilloon, wrestling at 158, timing. However, Jim Kane and producing thirteen improved times County Coliseum next weekend against Duluth, visits\ Notre Dame, and led off Notre Dame's surge with his Gene Krathaus, enroute to meet for coach Dennis Stark. Ed Strack then finishes up at home with a four-pointer !against Minnesota. Denver 11-3 decision of Alan Garber. marks, each fell just .3 seconds and Sherk placed second and third has a four-point series with Colorado College in addition to its games with Leading 2-1, Gilloon scored a pair short of fracturing their own in the 200-yard butterfly. Jim 
l\lichigan State and Michigan Tech. of middle-period takedowns to varsity holdings in the 100-yard Meagher and Wallach finished counter two escapes by Garber. ana 50-yard freestyle events second in the 100-yard and 500-yard 
Notre Dame was lucky last weekend. Almost "burned" by Colorado, 

John Dowd (167) followed with a respectively. Joe O'Connor scored events respectively.
the Irish had too much talent for the Tigers to cope with and escaped pin over MacMurray's George in the three events capturing first In the 200-yard backstroke Eddisaster. The experience should have taught them a lesson. 

Vaughan at the 7:46 mark after place in the 500 yard freestyle. (iraham and Bob ThompsonAs Smith said, "They've shown me that they can come from behind. 
draws of 2-2 and 4-4 in the first two Despite the margin of victory, ('arned second and third placeNow I hope that we never have to do it again." 
rounds. Notre Dame needed the diving of while Brian McCorry was runner­Following a forfeit win at 1.77, Mark Foster and Dan Makielski to up in the 200-yard breaststroke. Ice Chips: Notre Dame's Pete Chimento overcome an early Bonnie lead and The Irish 400-yard freestyle relayMike Dunphy's game-winning goal Saturday was only the frosh left easily disposed of his 190-pound finally clinch the win. Trailing team !Krathaus, Andy Wilcox, winger's second of the year. He'd been having troubles finding the net but opponent. Jim Wator, pinning him after the first four events, the 1-2 O'Connor, Sherk l closed the started playing up to his potential last weekend, racking up two assists in at 2:46 of the middle period. finish of Foster and Makielski in scoring winning the relay in 3:23.0. addition to his all-important goal. Chi~nto. with a takedown and the one-meter diving competition The Irish entertain the Purdue 
"I hope that gives Michael the confidence to go out and carry on like n~ar-all. piled up a 5-1 lead before lifted the Irish into a lead they Boilermakers this Saturday at 2:00 that," Smith commented. "He played just tremendously." wm mg. never relinquished. Makielski and p.m. 

Weekend losses to powerful Detroit and Wayne State cost the Irish fencers a chance at a perfect season. 

"I feel sorry for the kids. They worked hard all week in preparation. If we could have had 
-





