~ --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
On The Inside 

Johnson and the presidency... page 7 
Campus happenings ... page 2 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VII No. 64 Tuesday, January 23, 1973 
Stricken at ranch 
LBJ dies of heart attack 
San Antonio. Texas--Lyndon Baines Johnson, 36th President of the United States, died today of an ap­parent heart attack suffered at his ranch. 
The 64 year-old Johnson, who had a history of heart trouble was pronounced dead on arrival at Brooke Army Medical Center here. 
A iongtime aide Tom Johnson, issued the following statement at the hospital: 
"The former president was stricken at the LBJ ranch and was flown to Brooke General Hospital in San Antonio. where he was pronounced dead on arrival by Col. George McGranaham. Mrs. Johnson was notified and flew to San Antonio where she is now. Funeral arrangements are incomplete." 
Death came to Johnson even as the nation still ob­served a period of mourning proclaimed for the death less than a month ago of its only other surviving former president. Harry S. Truman. 
flags lowered again 
At Fort Sam Houston, where Brooke General Hospital is situated, flags were hoisted to full staff and then immediately lowered again for the man who was thrust into the Presidency on Nov. 22, 1963, when an assassin's bullet took the life of President john F. Kennedy in Dallas. 
Ironically. Johnson died in what appeared to be the waning days of the war that had transformed him from the man who had in 1964, won election to a full term as president with the greatest voting majority ever ac­('Orded a candidate. to the president of a divided nation. 

Lyndon Baines Johnson: 36th President of the United States, 1908 -1973. 
Amid rising personal unpopularity, in the face of a lingering war and racial strife at home, Johnson surprised the nation on March 31, 1968 with a television speech in which he announced "I shall not seek and I will not accept the nomination of my party as your president." 
great society 
.A: P~esident w~o undertook bold new programs in CIVIl nghts. social security, aid to education and housing. Johnson had seen his dream of a do~estic great society go glimmering in the face of a war in Vietnam he could not end. 
died in home 
According to reports from Austin, Johnson was found stricken in his bedroom at the ranch at about 3:40p.m. by Mike Howard, chief of his secret service detail and Harry Harris, another secret service man. 
As he was being rushed to the hospital, about 45 miles from the ranch, word of his attack was sent to Mrs. Johnson. who was at the time in Austin, about 70 miles from the hospital. 
Mrs. Johnson immediately left the Johnson library in 
Austin and arrived in San Antonio at about the same 
time as her husband. 
After the former President was pronounced dead, 
Mrs. Johnson returned to Austin accompanied by 
Howard. arriving at about 6:45 local time and went to her penthouse apartment at the family broadcasting sta lion KTBC. 
career began in 1937 
His renunciation of an opportunity to culminate with a second full term· a career in public life that began in 1937 with his election to Congress as an ardent new dealer and led to the majority leadership of the Senate and to the Vice-Presidency, set the stage for Democratic defeat at the polls in 1968. 
Two days before Johnson's death, Richard M. Nixon, the Republican who was elected in 1968, took the oath of office for his second term as President. 
It is the first time since early 1933 that the country has been without a living ex-President. Calvin Coolidge died Jan. 5, 1933, two months before the inaugural of Franklin D. Roosevelt made Hervert Hoover an ex-President. 

last public appeaxarm 
Johnson made his last formal public appearance last Tuesday in Austin, where he appeared on a platform outside the state capitol for the inauguration of Governor Dolph Briscoe and Lt. Gov. William P. Hobby. the son of Oveta Culp Hobby, who served Johnson as Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare. 
The former President appeared thin, but he ap­peared to be enjoying the opportunity to see old friends and shake hands with well-wishers who flocked around him. 

Washington was the scene of many antiwar demon­strations during the Johnson administration. 
Later that day, he took Walter Heller, the former chairman of his Council of Economic Advisers to Southw~st Texas States University, Johnson's aima mater. m San Marcos, for a talk to a group of students. 


missedNixon's inauguration 
Last Saturday, joining Mrs. Johnson in her president went to Ranch Road 1, which runs across the Pedernales River from the LBJ Ranch and planted a redbud tree. a Texas tree that blooms with red flowers. 
Johnson told a-friend tha-t he was not feeling very well, and said that was why he had not gone to Washington for the inauguration of Nixon. 
In Washington, an Army spokesman questioned about plans for a funeral said the former President ''would never get into the subject with us in any kind of detail." However, he added that a funeral plan had been readied which would be presented to Mrs. Johnson for her approval. · 
family burial plot 
Johnson had always made clear that he wanted to be buried on the family ranch in Johnson City, in a small walled burial plot, about 100 yards from the ranch house, where his father, mother and other relatives were laid to rest. 




Foreman upsets Frazier • • • 
details a1 JXlf/8 8 
------------·~­
the observer Tuesday, January 23, 1973 
,
_., 
~ 
Paris -Henry A. K;issinger arrived in Paris last night for another cease-fire negotiating session with Hanoi's Le Due Tho. The in­
~ 
dications were that the meeting almost assuredly would be the last 
r negotiating session . For the first time, the two were scheduled to meet in the majestic hotel where the formal and futile four -sided
~ 
Paris Peace Conference was held over four years.


warld 
Saigon -South Vietnamese troops throughout the country have been 
r 
put on full alert and security measures in Saigon and other major dties are being sharply intensified in anticipation of communist at­
' 
r 
tacks before the signing of a cease-fire agreement.
briefs 

~ 
r 
San Antonio. Tex. -Lyndon Baines Johnson, 36th president of the 
r 
United States. died Monday of an apparent heart attack suffered at his 
r ranch. Johnson. who had a history of heart trouble, was pronounced 
dead on arrival at Brooke Army Medical Center at San Antonio.
r 
(C) 1973 New YorR Times
' Washington-The Supreme Court, voting 7-2 overruled all state laws
r 
that prohibit or restrict a woman's right to obtain an abortion during her first three months of pregnancy. The Court drafted an entirely 
r 
new set of national guidelines that will result in broadly liberalized
~ 
anti-abortion laws in some 46 states but not abolisli restrictions
r 
~ aItogether. 
an campu• taday 
5-6:30 p.m.--registration for neigh­borhood study help program(tutoring), north dining hall 
8:00 p.m.--concert, menahem pressler, cla~sic_al pianist, o'laughlinaud1tonum, smc, admission-$2.00 

at nd-•mc 




Ca1npus happenings... 
Observer staff and should provide a good op­inlervit>ws for any of the com­portunity for Junior Class Parents panies who will visit the St. Mary's to see the different facets of the campus this semester.
Nil and SMC students with llniversity firsthand." Applicants must register thisjournalistic inclinations have the \\'eek at the Career Placementopportunity to become Observer A letter with ticket information offiee room 175 Ll'mans. during
Staff Heporters tonight and will be sent to the Parents this rPgular business hours. Manytomorrow at 7:00 in room 2-D WPdnesday along with Hotel and companies with a wide variety of
l.al-'ortum•. l\lotel information. Lodging )''''LIP'ltt'ons "'I'll · 't th S · t
l '' ' · " VISI e am
AI llw meeting the nature of the reservations should be made as 
l\lar~··s campus this semester.
.ioh is explained and questions soon as possible. For further in­answl'rPd. No experience is formation on the Wl'ekend. contact n•quirPd. a news staff and l\IiloCoccimiglioat 1686. If anyonl' proofrPading staff asssist repor­is interested in helping with the SM c rings IPrs with lht>ir stories. ,,·pekend. contact Jim Clarke at 
Intl'rl'stt>d people may attend lli41. l'illwr of the meetings. If both of lhosP dates tlrP inconvenient ana Today is the last opportunity this ppointnwnl can be arranged with st'llll'ster for SMC sophomores tlw 1wws department by calling Summer jobs .Juniors and seniors to order their 
171:1. dass rings. Orders will be taken this af­lt•rnoon from .J:OO to 5:00 in the The St. Mary's Career Director's Ll'ma ns ha II lobby. A ten dollar
Parents' Weekend Office is accepting applications for deposit is rl'quired at the time the sumnwr jobs for St. Mary's order is placed. The rings are students. The jobs include t•xpt•ctl'd to arrive in March. 
Tlw 21st Junior Parents' Overseas Custom Maids, 
Weekend is l<'ebruary 16. 17 and 18 \'t>llowstone National Park Ser­announced the Notre Dame Junior ,·iel'. Indiana camp and resort ('lass officers. positions. and Government Rock Workshop 
Tlw wPekend will be highlighted Sumnwr lntPrnships. "ilh the Presidential Dinner The program was set up by the fPaturing I<'r. Theodore Hesburgh. Placement Office. So far the 
C.S.C. as guest speaker on response has been good, and any A multi-nwdia Rock Workshop is Saturday. l<'t>bruary 17 at 7:30p.m. other St. Mary's students in­now hl'ing organized to produce an 
in Stt>pan Ct>nter. tt•rested in the program can original Hock Cantata for per­r Other events include an option to register at the Placement Office formance during this semester. r <tttl'nd the Ice Capades at the located in room 175 Lemans Hall. A Hock Cantata is an im­r t\.('.C. or the play "After the Rain" pro\·isational thl'atre piece cast in 
p(•rforml'd hy the ND-SMC theater tlw roek idiom and utilizing a wide
f. in Washington Hall on Friday spt•ctrum of talents. Wanted are night. Also. tlwre will be a brunch Career Placement tTt•atiYe writl'rs. song writers. in tlw North lliningllall on Sunday choreographt•rs. musicians. 
morning. dancers. singl'rs. actors. 
.Junior Class President. Milo photograplwrs and visual ('orcimiglio commented. "The Saint Mary's graduates and dt•sigm·rs and technical production \\'Pl'kPnd is shaping up rather well l'Urrent seniors can register for job pt•ople. 
According to Father George 
Got the urge to write? 

Sign up now for the Observer reporting staff 
two informational meetings: 
tonight 7:00 tomorrow 7:00 pm LaFortune 2-D or LaFortune 2-D 
current reporters: please attend one of these meetings and give us your new schedule 
'----------------------------·-· ·------­
\\'iskirelwn. C.S.C.. director of the I.ounge of thl' Student Center. Notre Damp .Jazz Band and l'rl'vious experience is not t'oordinator of this project. "The n•quin•d. Hock Cantata form was dl'veloped lntl'n•sted persons unable to h~· William Husso and the Free atlt•nd tlw nwl'ting can contact Tlwatn• of Chicago as a con-1-'athl'r Wiskirehen at 28:3-6303. lt•mpormy multi-media expression .--------------. 
in llw arts." The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by
An.\' intl'restt>d tTeati·ve wr1'ters. 
the students of the l 1niversity of Notre artists and performl'rs are invited Dame and st. Mary's College. Sub· 
to attend an explanatory and scriptions may be purchased for sa per · . I · semester 114 per year) from The Ob·
1
orgamza 10na llll't'tmg of the Rock server, !'·ox Q, Notre Dame, Indiana \\'orkshop on Thursday. January 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre '':lth at !UlO Pl\1 in the Fiesta DamP, Ind. 46556. 
CAC presents 



MENAHEM PRESSLER 
Classical Pianist in Concert 8 p.m. $2 at the door O'Laughlin Jan 23rd. 

a Mardi Gras Concert with 


SANTANA 

Friday, February 9 at 8:00pm 
Tickets: $5.50, 4.50, 3.00 
ticket sale in the Fiesta Lounge of LaFortune Center and at the ACC Ticket Office (9-5) 
I 

Limit of 8 tickets per perso~ ... presented by the Student Union ... 
...___________ -·-------·--· ·--------·---. 

Tuesday, January 23, 1973 
the observer 





Mexican-American stereotype challenged 
Cordelia Candelaria Staff Reporter 

"The current economic condition of the Mexican-American" was discussed by Dr. Fred H. Schmidt last evening before an audience of sixty persons in the library auditorium. 
Dr. Schmidt, a research economist at UCLA. was invited by the Notre Dame Sociology department through its lecture series sponsored by the Mexican­Anu'rican Studies Program directed bv Dr. Julian Samora. 
Schmidt: whose main area of research has been among hard t·ore poverty and unemployment groups. discussed the economic 

High court legalizes abortion during first three Inontbs 
by Fred Barnes 
Washington. Jan 1973--The 

Supreme Court ruled 7-2 today that states may not punish a woman for having an abortion approved by her doctor. in the rirst three months of pregnancy. 
The Court declared that a woman does not have an absolute right to have an abortion throughout a pregnancy. 
In the first three months of pregnancy the abortion decision and its effectuation must be left "to the medical judgment of the pregnant woman's attending physician." the court said. 
From the three month stage to the point where the unborn child might live if carried to birth states are allowed to set standards to assure "maternal health," the justices ruled. · States also have the right to bar abortions in cases where the fetus has reached the stage--usually at a bout 26 weeks--where it might live if born. 
.Justice Harry A. Blackmun wrote the majority opinion justices B~-ron H. White and William H. Hehnquist dissented. each writing a minority opinion. 
White declared that states should be allowed to dency abortions "to those who seek to serve only their convenience rather than to protect their life or health." 
Today's ruling may affect anti­abortion statutes in as many as 46 states. Abortions are now openly available in the District of Columbia. New York, Wahington, Hawaii. and Alaska. Restrictions have been eased in 13 other states. 
In his 51-page opinion striking down a Texas law prohibiting abortions. Blackmun said that states remain "free to place in­l'reasing restrictions on abortion as the period of pregnancy lengthens. so long as those restrictions are tailored to the recognized states interests." 
At the same time, he declared, "The decision vindicates the right of the physician to administer medical treatrment according to his professional judgment up to the point where important state in­terests provide compelling justifications for intervention." 
"Up to those points," Blackmun declared. "The abortion decision in all its aspects is inherently and primarily a medical decision and basic responsibility for it must rest with the physician." 
Blackmun said that the right of privacy under the 14th Amend­ment "Is broad enough to en­compass a woman's decision whether or not to terminate her pregnancy." 

But Blackmun said the highest eourt disagreed with the view "that the woman's right is absolute implications of the 1970 U. S. census. He prefaced his analysis by reminding his audience that until quite recently Mexican­Americans "hardly had a statistical existence" because in the past ethnic breakdowns were made according to "white" and "non-white" categories. He also explained that because of "definitional changes," the 1970 census includes more people than the 1960 census. These are changes of particular significance to Mexican-Americans and account for the vast numerical increase of Mexican Americans in the 1970 eensus over the 1960 figures. 
The single most significant shift. according to Dr. Schmidt, among 

and that she is entitled to erminate The Justices with Blackmun her pregnancy at whatever time in again writing the majority opinion, whatever way and for whatever also struck down some provisions reason she alone chooses." of a Georgia law. 
The Texas' law which the justices struck down made it a crime to eause an abortion unless it was l'arried out on "medical advice for the purpose of saving the life of the mother." 
The statute was challenged by a Texas Doctor facing prosecution in two abortion cases. A married eouple and a single woman who recently had a child. A three-judge Federal Court in Dallas ruled in June. 1970. that the Texas law was unconstitutional. but that court refused to forbid its enforcement. · Thus. those who challenged the law carried the issue to the Supreme Court. 
Etienne seeking lobby for Majority of ,Age Bill 
by Tom Drape Student Body Vice President Observer Staff Reporter 
llt'nnis Etienne has tried to organize the formation of an In­Today's trip to the Indiana diana CoHege Lobby. Etienne feels legislature by Acting University a representative effort from all the \'it·e President for Student Affairs universities and colleges in In­Dr. Philip Facenda, and three ' diana would aid in the passage of Notre Dame Student Government the bill. offieials .to lo?by for the Majority l'~tienne has received replies to ot Age B11l failed to materialized. his efforts from Ball State, \'alporaiso. and other smaller colleges but has yet to receive confirmation from either Purdue or Indiana University. Schipp agrees with Etienne that the in­fluence which would be felt in the , legislature with the presence of Indiana and Purdue is needed for effective lobbying for the bill. The Majority of Age bill would affect 450 Indiana laws. Although early speculation is varied, the eonsensus is that all except the lowering of drinking age clause will pass. It will be the special aim of the Notre Dame delegation to secure passage of the drinking age bill. Student Government hopes to enliven the Notre Dame social scene through taking advantage of a lowered age. 
The Winery 
Michiana's Only Wine Shop 
*Gormet Food *Cheese *Books *Wine Glasses 
2426 Lincoln Way West .Mishawaka 259-9046 4 Blks East of Ironwood 
John J · O'Hanlon-Prop., ND '65 

the Mexican-American population is the closing of the gap in education between it and that of the larger society. However, he cautioned his audience to beware of optimism of complacency, for the apparent educational im­provement among Mexican­Americans is partially based on statistical technicalities that lie outside accepted measures of actual learning. 
Among the interesting ob­servations Dr. Schmidt made in his lecture were two which depart from commonly accepted assumptions. He asserted that in state by state analyses of the 1970 eensus. farmwork is not among the top five most frequent job 
In the Georgia case. the court said that states could limit abor­tions only to state resident. A residency requirement was un­eonstitutional because it denied protection to those who entered a state for medical services. 
In addition. the court ruled that staes would not restrict abortions only to accredited hospitals. 
And the court majority said that states eould not require the ap­proval of a hospital committee before an abortion was granted. This requirement was unduly restrictive of the patient's rights, it said. 

ea tegories among Mexican­Americans. He suggested that perhaps this fact "challenges the stereotype of the Mexican­American." It might, however simply indicate the serious dif: ficulty of numerically assessing a transient population. 
Secondly, Dr. Schmidt pointed out that average earnings of Mexican-American women rank far below not only the national average for whites, but also below those of black women, the group usually considered to be at the lowest pay rung of the economic ladder. 
The next speaker to appear 

MARDI GRAS FESTIVAL 
KICK OFF PARTY 
South Bend Armory Fri., Feb. 2 Tickets on sale now at StudellLt Union Ticket Office (at Dining Halls, Wed., Jan. 24) 55 per couple 




Send THE OBSERVER home this semester 
h makes a great lin~ing for the bird cage for only $8.00. 
The Observer Subscription Dept. Box Q 
Univer·sity of Notre Dame Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
Name 
Address 

City State Zip ___ 
Is this a subscription fro~m last semester? Yes_ No __ 
If yes is this a new address? Yes_ No 
If yes what is the old address? 

under the Mexican-American Studies lecture series is the well­known author of North from Mexico. Carey McWilliams. McWilliams' writings are con­sidered among the most influential recent publications dealing with ·Mexican-Americans, which Dr. Schmidt described as "the fastest growing ethnic group in our 
country today." 

All the lectures in the series are 
open to the public. The Sociology 
department urges everyone in­
terested in becoming better in­
formed about Mexican-Americans 
to attend the seven remaining 
lectures. 



..---------------------------------------------~----------~--------~--------­
r 
r 
r r 
r 
~ 





OBSERVER 
COMMENT 
page 4 
Crasslakes A Tall Texan Jjaseph ab•ll 


Ms.1Jivin1Js Uncalled For 
maria r:.allar:.her 
Remember the good old days when you were a  
little kid? About the most intimidating thing you  
could say to the neighborhood bully was, "I'm  
gonna tell my mommy on you!"  
Then grade school--and the threat of "telling  
sistpr" of somP heinous deed--like passing notes or  
dwating on a spelling test--stifled even the most  
,. r  hardenPd parochial school criminal. l<'ollowPd by high school--and by that time your social sophistication had developed to the point  
wlwrP you knew that "snitching" or informing on  
sonwone was a one-way ticket to ostracism from a  
social group. Any social group.  
By the time you reached college, you realized that  
aetions were a matter of personal choice rather  
than a blind obeisance to "sister says." You no  
longer attempted to impose your set of values upon  
pt>ople who had no apparent regard for them.  
Anonymity equals cowardice  
Now to bring it all on home. Somehow a large  
number of St. Mary's people seem unable to shake  
the tattling habit. This usually manifests itself in  
the form of anonymous phone reports to authorities  
at SMC. who seem to encourage the unsolicited  
rlt>tective work.  
The "anonymous phone call" repor to Saint  
Mary's security or a hall director--has got to be the  
most obscene type of phone call I can think of.  
Never mind the act in question--we all know that  
wrong is an invariable at Saint Mary's--but the  
nwthod by which it is reported is what I'd like to  
take issue with. It all seems so juvenile, not to  
mention cowardly; a return to the days when you'd  
gl't n•venge on someone by "telling on" them. If  
~·our next door neighbor is really bugging you by  
,.  having her boyfriend in her room and poses a serious threat to your morals by doing so, tell her to  
r r  her face. () strongly suspect that the informer in these cases does so out of jealousy rather than a  
r r  sense of moral duty. l Or see your RA if your sense of "moral duty" is not accompanied with a suf­ficient dose of "moral courage."  
~  To hide through a middleman <i.e. security  
guard. hall director, etc.) and worse yet  
f  anonymously, is hardly noble. Perhaps a rule is being violated, but you're not being contracted by  
the college to operate your own little vice squad.  
Anrl if you argue that you have a right to oversee  
\'OUr neighbor's moral activity--look to the Bible,  
the source of all moral instruction, where you'll find  
"Ill' who is without sin cast the first stone" and  
·•Judge and you shall be judged."  
The dishonorable "honor" system  
"llonor" systems as nurtured in some colleges for  
any number of purposes are a rather competitive  
form of discipline. Rather t)lan encouraging  
honesty and personal responsibility, it's actually  
rlPputizing a whole peer group to keep each other in  
linl'. William Fulbright once wrote a book about  
defensive supremacy called The Arrogance of  
Power and that's precisely the result of such a  
system--a bunch of beady-eyed watchdogs who  
attt>mpt to raise themselves in administrative  
t•steem by lowering others.  
Tht•re is also a futility in the "reporting" of each  
dorm incident. If irregularities occur within the  
daan•sbury  

rlorm and are discovered. there is no reason to believe that they will not continue outside. This smacks of Pilate washing his hands. He's not guilly--right?--and this act alleviates his mental qualms. But does this accomplish your end? 
Abolish anonymity 
What is the solution? First, the present system of anonymity in "informative" phone calls should be abolished. U. S. courts demand that the accuser face the accused in court--I wonder how sharply the anonymous reports would decrease at SMC if this system (similar to Notre Dame's> were introduced. This would virtually eliminate the event of snitching on someone out of pure malice. Then, if a person took it upon himself to purge the adjoining room of iniquity. he would do so with the conviction that he would show himself and stand by his action. Much more sincere than any anonymous phone message. 
Secondly. Saint Mary's security should not in­\'estigate every (if indeed any> anonymous phone call they receive. It merely leaves a wide open market for pranksters, and imagine the impact it would have on a university the size of Michigan or Texas. 
An awesome--and unnecessary--responsibility 
This is all particularly relevant in light of the recent Lewis Hall case. How would you like to have on your conscience the expulsion of a fellow student, perhaps ruining for life her chances for future job or Pducational acceptance, or even deportment? With this in mind, women might think twice about tur­ning in their neighbors. Why is it that one never hears of such incidents at Notre Dame among the men? Anonymity is undoubtedly a large factor, and I believe that women have Jess respect for each other than do men. 
SPiling out one's soul to scandal never had any particular redeeming qualities. Look what it did for 
Judas.  for  Benedict  Arnold,  for  the  Rosen­ 
burgs ... and  reflect  on  what it  can  do  for  you-­ 
Christian.  

The Lyndon Baines Johnson Memorial Library. situated on the campus of the 
Managing Editor: Joe Abell News Editor: Anthony Abowd St. Mary's Editor: Maria Gallagher Editorial Editor: Jerry Lutkus Features Editor: Rod Braye Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson 


r:.arry trudeau 
Associate Editors: Bob Higgins, Ed Ellis 
Special Projects Editor: Dan Barrett 
Asst. Ad Manager: Patti Stobel Business Secretary: Ceil Popovich Subscriptions Manager: Art Ferranti Production Manager: Joe Wilkowski Circulation: John Woods 
Night Editor: Kathy Schwille Ass't. Nite Editor: Robert Baker Layout: Dan Barrett, Ken Kampman Typists: Steve Roper, Howard Halle, Barb Norcross, Tom Modglin Sports Night Editor: Vic Dorr Pictures: Jerome Aide-de-camp: T. C. Night Controller: John Flan· nigan 


---l 
Lvndon Baines Johnson, President of the United States, was a 
legend. From the time he was catapulted from the total obscurity of 
the shadow of the illustrius young President through a rlisasterous 
shooting (ironically in .Johnson's own state), Johnson became, if not 
thl' most popular President, at least a very unique one. And a Presidnt 
whose at home living was almost as well known as his executive living. 
.Johnson had special meaning for this writer, for we both call that 
land West of the Pecos home. Though his rise through the various 
d('ad alleys of Texas politics, the jagged course of Congress and the 
swirling byways of the Senate was almost before my time. a sense of 
pride that this man from Texas achieved national note is gratifying. 
Th(' many caricatures of the highly imitatable PI'Psident told of a Texas voice. Texas walk. a Texas speech, a Texas mannerism, a Texas 
giant. This was a man who was solid example of the old school Texas 
lkmocratic conservatism. something that many critics blasted him 
with. but something that never stood in his way in getting things ac­
complished the way he thought was best. 
Who can forget the familiar drawling beginnings of national ad­
dresses. "Mah fellah Ahmaricans ..."? Who can forget his oftentimes 
"lwavy heart" and his always enthusiasm for his national and in­
tPrnational guests to "come down to the ranch fo' a bahbeque"? And 
those famous barbeques themselves, where a very obviously aging 
President would mix gallons of barbeque sauce with quarts of various 
Plixirs in huge tin tubs and gayly splash the mixture on entire sides of 
cattle on spits. all the time laughing, talking and not really caring 
about business. only that his guests have a fahne tahme. A better 
diplomat has aided America few times in history. 
But despite the warm personality that was the Texan, it never got in 
the way of the cool businessman that was the top executive. Because 
of his nature. his decisions were always very slowly and carefully 
thought out and the consequences were deftly weighed. His advisors 
always had his ear, and their advice was often sought out. 
.Johnson was a far from the perfect President however. Though 
deliberate. he was weak. His efforts to end problems such as the 
Vietnam war and poverty were doomed to failure, mostly due to his 
inability to present a strong image to the American people. His 
programs were ambitious, but costly. 
But even to the end, Johnson knew his politics. He knew it was time 
to quit in 1968, even though he could have continued. He knew his 
party would have a better chance with a bit younger, a bit more 
dynamic candidate. And he promptly threw his support to that can­
didate and successive Democratic national and Texas candidates, 
despite the philosophies they represented. In this sense, then, his 
loyalty and support for his party, he was the strongest of them all. 
Texas will miss Lyndon Johnson. The colorful figure that brought 
T('xas to the front of the eyes of the nation will leave a large hole in the 
state's illustrious history. 
And the nation will mourn with Texas, for though his barbeques, his 
drawl. his mannerisms were all Texan, they were also all American. 
The library at the University of Texas will remember his ideals and 
hopes. Numerous streets with the Johnson name affixed will 
remember his stature and dreams. The two-storey house in Stonewall, 
Texas. his birthplace, will remember his beginnings, the ranch at 
.Johnson City will remember his personal history, and an infinity of 
high school American History classes will remember his political 
dt>eds. 
But it is the American people who will remerr:ber this Jege!'ldary 

figure. this very tall Texan. 

University of Texas. (Staff photo by Joseph Abell). 
the observer 


Tuesday, January 23, 1973 the observer 


asia today: poverty,plenty, and turbulence 
(C) 197.J New York Times News Service 

Hong Kong--The contrasts between rich man and poor man seem starkest in Asia than anywhere else 
While. some of. its countries were aehit'ving spectacular industrial growth last ~·par. (~!hers were gripped by hunger amid a \'ast nee shortage. 
The challenge .racing the densely populatt>d contment IS how to attain further ('l'onomic gains I in the thriving nations l and at the samP time alleviate poverty <in the ll•sser dt>veloped lands l. Spokesmen for the stru~gling areas are not slow to express lrustratwn wh~n they feel they are being tgnon•d by their wealthier neighbors. 
In 1!172 /\sia appeared in the manner of a man tr~·i?g to scramble up a slippery slope, to ht> losmg ground for every step gained. 
Trut'. most of the countries could boast of indica tors showing progress in some field of l'l'onomic endeavor. /\nd a few recorded dramatic surges in industrial growth. But many old problems refused to be laid to rest 
Asia's trend toward greater self-reliance. political pragmatism and economi~ realism. which had emerged during 1971, ht>cam1• more pronounced last year. 
Barriers that seemed formidable a few ~·pars ago tumbled before new forays in diplomacy. Television coverage of l'n•sidt'nt Nixon's meeting with Mao Tse­Tung demo~stra.ted the opportunities open to other natwns tor an accommodation with China. Premier Kakuei Tanaka of Japan soon went a step further by establishing diplomatic relations with Peking. 
ThP po_ssibilities for further spectacular (hplomahc breakthroughs were underlined when North Korea and South Korea two unlikely candidates for rapproche~ent. agreed to tone down their acrimonious Pxchanges and adopt a more temperate dialogue. 
Famine 

Even as the nations of Asia were adapting their policies to meet the changing political situation. they found themselves confronted hy an old specter. Natural disasters and human miscalculation resulted in the biggest rice shortage of recent years, causing widespread hunger. Even in this age of "'Miracle" rice and despite fears of overproduction. the heavily populated nations of Asia remained vulnerable to nature's whims. 
The Philippines was hit by floods while Indonesian crops were reduced by drought. China's grain harvest slumped by 10 million tons. after natural disasters described by Pt•kmg as the "worst in several decades." Drought caused extensive crop losses in India after five years of steadily increasing production. and the grain harvest was the smallest since 1968. 

Nature alone was not to blame for the rice shortage. Man compounded the problem in 
Indonesia. where procurement was 
mls~an?Ied, and in Indochina, where the 
l'?ntmUJ~g war disrupted harvesting and 
(hstnbutwn. 
I•:ve_n the big rice-exporting countries l'Xpenenced problems. At first Thailand h~·nd"ited . from the shortages by getting h_1gher pnces for her exports, but a per­sistent drought is expected to reduce the 197:lerop in Thailand. The surplus available I or t•xport m Burma declined in 1972 and is <'Xpected to be even lower this year. . J•:mergency arrangements averted Iamme. but economists began to worry about whether food production would be abk• to keep pace with Asia's population growth. The Economic Commission for Asia ~:nd The Fa~ East forecast that by the year _ooo /\sw s population would reach :1.771\.0tltl,tlllll. more than the world's entire population today. 
War 
Asians not directly affected by the \'ietnam War as well as those within sound of its weapons were disturbed last year by the t·ontinuing elusiveness of peace. But officials of many countries talked en­thusiastically of prospects for regional eeonomic expansion in conjunction with internationally aided reconstruction in Indochina if the war would only end. 
For /\sian countries dependent upon world commodity markets as an important source of export earnings, the outlook at the beginning of 1972 was dismal. with prices for rubbt'r and tin at depressed levels. 
llowever. the situation improved toward the end of the year when the price of rubber took an upward turn. If the trend continues it will bring increased export earnings for Malaysia. Indochina and Thailand, which supply about 80 percent of the world's natural rubber. 
Thr_ougho~t most of Asia unemployment remamed h1gh last year, but areas where industrial development was swift faced shortages of skilled labor. Singapore had to tmport 100.000 workers from Malaysia. In sharp contrast. the estimates of unem­plo~·ed in India ranged from 20 million to 50 million. 
Despite the concentration of half the world's population in Asia, it holds a marked advantage over the United States in terms of trade. Asia's low per-capita income limits the continent's growth as a market for Anwrican goods while its more ad­va~ced countries are steadily stepping up the1r exports to the U.S. 
Last year the U.S. had a trade deficit of some $3.5 billion with Japan, $450 million with Hong Kong, $300 million with Taiwan and $:~00 million with Malaysia, far out­weighing its favorable balance of trade with 


press ler tonight 

I \n TttPsday. January 23rd. the Cultural .\ rt s ('omm iss ion will present classical pianist l\IPnaht'm Pressler. in concert at ll'Ltughlin Auditorium. Mr. Pressler has pl;t~·pd \rith major orchestras in Europe and tlw Pnited States and he is very well known <ts tlw pianist-founder of the. Beaux Arts Trio. 
1\l!'nahem Pressler arrived from Israel at tlw agp of 19 and began his international t·an•t>r in San l<'rancisco by winning the first prize in the International Debussy Com­jl('\ition there. Immediately he was engaged to appear with major orchestras. including tlw N1•w York Philharmonic and the I 'hiladl'lphia Orchestra. Among other laurPls. lw was given an unprecented three ~Par contract as soloist with the l'hiladelphia Orchestra. 
As the ~·ears went by, Pressler devoted himst•lf to chamber engagements with the Hl'<lliX Arts Trio. Then. with the trio t•stablisht•d as one of the world's foremost l'hamlwr groups. he returned to solo per­lormances. The reviewers were amazed at tlw \\'l'alth of nuances and spread of tonal variation athat shone through his playing. The chamber music experience allows him to bring a limitless pallette of coloring and d~·namic l'xcitement to his solo per­formances. Paul Hume. in the Washington l'ost. said. Pressler's playingg was an t•xamplt• of the finished. poised elegance of a sophisticatPd. mature artist of the highest rank." The New York Times said "l'n•ssler's performance was electrifying.,; 

l\lr. Pressler's program for the evening is <tS fo.lows: Sonata in B-flat major--Mozart, Tlll'l't' Songs Without Words--Mendelssohn Smwta in /\-flat major--Beethoven. Ballad~ 1\o. :l in /\-flat major--Chopin, MNocturne op. post. C-sharp minor--Chopin, and An­dantt> Stianato t't Grand Polonaise--Chopin. 
The eoncert begins at B p.m. at O'Lau~hlin. Admission is two dollars at the door. 
Singapore and Thailand. 
America~ investors continued to be im­pressed ~1th the opportunities for in­vestment m the Far East. South Korea announced that foreign investment reached a record $100 million in 1972, with more than so percent coming from the United States. Anwrican money also poured into other countries. 
Big new American projects got started last ~·ear in the Philippines and Indonesia. 
In the Philippines. the Ford Motor Co took the first step in a $40 million investment \\"he~ it signed an agreement with the l\lanveles export processing zone to lease a property on Bataan, where it will construct a C'ar body stamping plant, to be completed m Hl75. 
ln I!)~Onesia. copper concentrates began to be sh1pped abroad from Indonesia's first copper mine in Kokonou, West Irian. The proJect--representing a $130 million in­~·estn~ent by Freeport Indonesia, a company ~~~winch the Freeport Minerals Co. of New '\ ?~-~ has an 87 percent interest--will be olflc~ally opened by President Sukarto of Indonesia this year. 
.•c.m~merce apparent!Y is staunchly1 es1stmg any eroswn am1d Asia's swirling currents of political change. The region seemed to move further away from the Western t:oncept of Democracy last year as the exerc1se of power by a single person or small ~roup become increasingly common. Pres1dent Park Chung Hee in South Korea and President Ferdinand Marcos in the Philippines rei~forced their positions by unposmg martial law. Lee in Singapore strengthened his hand through the electroal J~rocess but talked as tough as any dictator. Strong men also ruled in Indonesia 
Thailand.  Burma.  Taiwan  and South  
V1etnam.  
"'Swirling Currents"  

If this was bad for intellectual freedom it didn't seem to hurt business. In Manila Industrialists welcomed Marcos' crack~ down on crime and applauded his economic moves. In Singapore. businessmen raised their eyebrows at some of Lee's statements attacking advertising and the media but spoke approvingly of the economic climate and political stability. 
The shifting political climate in Asia last ~·ear wa_s _fav?rable. to China. Peking's pragmatic lore1gn policy gave rise to Ping­Pong Diplomacy and helped produce a marked improvement in Chinese-American relations. 
Elections in Australia and New Zealand brought into power Labor Governments that not only recognized Peking but also threw into doubt the future of the Southeast Asia Treaty Organization and other defense arrangements reflecting post-Korean War preoccupation with the threat of Chinese expansion. The smaller nations of Asia accordingly. saw added reason to seek ~ political accommodation with China.ln conversation. officic.ts in most countries of the Far East express the view that they must eventually establish ties with China. 
Those with Pro-Peking guerilla movements i~ ~heir countries hope they can dissuade the ~ hmese from encouraging or supplying the msurgents. l\lalaysia ~nd Thailand, where insurgents are .acttve m rural areas, appear to be movmg more rapidly than their neighbors toward the establishment of some rel~tionship with China. A Thai delegation \'!Sited the Fall Trade Fair in the Chinese city of Canton. Si~gapore and Indonesia are acting more cautwusly. Singapore is ~t!arf:.Jl of the in­fluence China might be able to wield over Singap?re's predominantly Chinese populatiOn. In Indonesia some military leaders. still bitter about the abortive Communist Coup of 1965, oppose the resumptiOn of ties with Peking. Nevertheless, senior officials in Singapore and Indonesia expect that some form of contact with China is inevitable. 
Made in Japan 
While China remained the dominant politi~al influence in Asia last year, Japan grew m stature as the economic giant of the area. A year ago businessmen in Japan were bemoaning the anticipated effects of the 16.3 percent upward revaluation of the ~·en on Japanese exports. But in 1972 .Japanese export earnings increased by 12 percent and Japan expanded her foreign­t•xchange reserves by more than $8 billion. 
. Nothing. it seemed. could stem the mighty ttde ol .Japanese growth. Watching this t•conomic juggernaut with a mixture of envy and apprehension. smaller nations in Asia \\'ere torn between a desire for Japanese trade and aid on the one hand and a determination not to fall under Japan's commercial domination on the other. 
In Thailand. where Japanese economic penetration has been more extensive than anywhere else in Southeast Asia. resent­ment at the pJrvasive presence of Japanese goods and Japanese business ventures boiled over into student-led demonstrations and an ineffectual boycott. The government sympathized with the demonstrators but pointed out that Thailand shopped in Japanese markets because it offered the best bargains. 
Interviewed in Tokyo, an official on the A~i~n A:ffa_irs Bureau of the Foreign Mm1stry said that. while the government could do something about aid it could not easily control Japanese b~sinessmen. "They will have to learn by experience that it will not be in their long-term interest to seek short-term benefits," he said. 
The establishment of diplomatic relations 
between Japan and China caused some Asia 
newspapers to express concern that these 
two powers might eventually team up to 
dommate the rest of the continent. But there 
has been no dramatic growth in economic 
cooperation between the two countries 
which remain poles apart politically. ' 
"~ see no big change as long as Japan is 
demed access to China's natural resources. 
/\~d t.~e c~.inese do not want the Japanese in 
th1s lield.. a Japanese Economist said. 

....------------------------------­
-~~~ 
6 

the observer Tuesday, January 23, 1973 

Guide to Mardi Gras 
'73 

KICK OFF PARTY, Friday, Feb. 2. 
s5°0 per couple South Bend Armory 8:30-12:30 There will be busses from the circle throughout the evening 
CONSTRUCTION 
Begins Monday Jan. 22 Stepan Center--volunteers needed 

CARNIVAL 
Friday, Feb. 2  6:30-10:00 (Kick-Off Party 8:30-12:30)  
Saturday,  3  7:00-1:00  
Sunday,  4  1:00-5:00  
Tuesday  6  7:00-12:00  
Wednesday,  7  7:00-12:00  
Thursday,  8  7:00-12:00  
Saturday,  10  7:00-1 :00  
Sunday,  11  1:00-5:00  (Drawing, 4pm)  
RAFFLE  

COLLECTION BEGINS Monday Jan. 22 (return tickets to section leaders) Returns will be accepted until the close of the carnival, Saturday, Feb. 10. 
PRIZES: 
1973 'Buick Riviera' J0 Speed Bicyle Suzzuki 500 Motorcycle (student prizeJ 
Students--sell J book get free admission to carnival; sell2 books get free admission to Kick Off Party 
Drawing for prizes Is 4pm, Sunday Feb. J J. 
CONCERT Santana Friday, Feb. 9, 1973, 8:30pm 
Tuesday, January 23, 1973 the observer 
7 

Johnson was disillusioned by Presidency 
by Albin Krebs (Cl 1973 New York Times News Service 
"I shall not seek, and I will not accept. the nomination of my party for another term as your president." Lyndon Baines .Johnson told a startled nationwide 
! television audience the night of 
11\larch :11. 1968. Dt'spite the fact that the nation was frustrated and angry about the war in Vietnam. troubled by racial strife. and caught up in inflation. most Anwricans had assumed that .Johnson. the highly political and mightily proud :~6th President of llw United States. would run for re­election in 1968. 
But in his televised speech, .Johnson first gave the long­awaited word that he had ordered a 
major reduction in the bombing of Communist North Vietnam and called for peace talks. 
Tlwn. after acknowledging that then' \\'liS "division in the American house." Johnson added his withdrawal statement which hHd not been in his prepared text:. 
"What we won when all of our pt'ople \wre united must not now he lost in suspicion. distrust. sellishness and politics among our pt•opll'." lw said. "Believing this ;~s I do. I have concluded that I should not permit the Presidency to lwconw involved in the partisan divisions that are developing in this political ~·ear." 
Tlwn he said he would not be a t·andidate for another term. 
With those <'lectrifying words. .Johnson in effect admitted the slwttering of a dream he had 
dwrished. since the day a mad­man's bullet killed his predecessor and mad<' him president. that he would restore peace and serenity to tlw Anwrican people. 
liP set forth those goals in a ringing speech before a joint st•ssion of Congress on March 15, I\Hi5. "This is the richest and most powerful country which ever oc­l'Upied this globe," he said. "The might of past empires is little <·ompared to ours. but I do not want to be tht> President who built Pmpires. or sought grandeur. or extl'nd<'d dominion. 
"I want to be the President who Pducated young children to the wonders of their world. 
"I want to be the President who helpPd to feed the hungry and to prPpare them to be taxpayers instPad of tax-eaters. 
"I want to be the President who !wiped the poor to find their own wa~· and who protected the right of <•ver~· l'itizen to vote in every <'IN·tion. 
"I want to lw the President who ht•lpPd to t'nd hatred among his fellow mt'n and who promoted love among the JWOple of all races. all rpgions and all parties. 
"I ll';ltlf to bt' the President who 
etal engineers honor Dr. Fiore 
Dr. Nicholas F. Fiore. chairman and associate professor of 1\l('tallurgical Engineering and 1\lalerials Science at the llniversitv of Notre Dame. has ht•en appointed to the Young 1\l<•mber's Committee of the ,\nwrican Society for Metals. The l'ommiltee has. as one of its major 
1bjectives. "the estabUshment of 
•llective communication between Young professionals and the ('Chnical society." l>r. Fiore joined the Notre Dame 
at·ultv in 1966 and holds a Ph.D. /rom ·the Carnegie Institute ?f :l'el·hnology m Pittsburgh. H1s pther awards include receiving the American Welding Society's 1\ll'moria\ Award in \971 for his "outsta.nding teaching activities :1dvancing the knowledge of wl'lding technology." and being t·l<'ctcd a trustee of Alpha Sigma !\!11 th" national metallurgical t'nginPPring honorary socidty. 


helped to end war among the brothers of this earth." 
These were Lvndon Johnson's aims. but few of -them were to be achieved. Less than two years after .John F. Kennedy was shot in Dallas. and less than a year after \lw largest majority in history had l'hosen him President in his own right. .1 ohnson found himself trapped in a remote. bloody and incredibly costly war that st•emingly would never end. 
Progressively the budgets of his ;1dministration were mortgaged to that war. and its unpopularity drained his political strength. 
1\loreover. the cities of America \l'('re ravaged by decay and racial 
riot. and the white majority 
n•sponded with anger. fear and 
l'indictiveness. 
B\' all indications. the war in 
Vietnam was the least popular of 
the nation's wars in this century 
and Johnson became by far the 
most eontroversial wartime 
leader. Bitter controversy born of 


24 hr. open 
tlw war swirled about the President and drowned the nwmory of his good legislative \nlrks. 
But .Johnson tried always to steer deftly to a middle course between the extremes of public opm1on. He held grimly to the conviction that the course he had chosen was one of honor and national interest. and that the ordeal simply had to be borne. 
In doing so. he knew that he had sacrificed not only popularity and the people's love, for which he lustPd. but also the great domestic aecomplishments that once had seeml'd within his grasp. 
Convinced as he was that he had pursued the right. even the just. course by mid-1968 Lyndon .Johnson made it plain that he was a deeply disillusioned and frustrated man. ready to shake off the shackles that the Presidency by then represented. 
Those who knew him knew this, 
hut they would also remember that 

lobbies at 
SMC extended until May 
by Mike Baum Staff Reporter 
Sl. 1\lary's experiment with 24 hours open lobbies will be extended until the end of this semester, SBP Sue \V('lte announced yesterday. 
The original proposal. opening thP lobbies of SMC dormitories to 
\'isitors  around  the  clock.  was  
passed  by  the  Student  Affairs  
Council  last  semester  on  a  trial  

basis. The results of the ex­pPrim<'nt were to have been ~reighed and a final decision made b~· the Board ol' Regents at their .January meeting. 
l lpen lobbies were delayed in the Fall semester. however. when difficulties arose in arranging for security procedures in the various halls. particularly Regina and Le 1\lans. 
According to Welte, the delay nwant that a decision at the .January Hegents meeting would have meant too little time to ac­curately weigh the results of the program. As a result. Welte said, ttw Student Affairs Council d<'cided during their meeting Friday to extend the trial period lor the remainder of the Spring Sel11l'Ster. 
Tlw fina I decision on open lob­hies \\'ill now be made by the ){pgents during their May meeting. Said 1\liss Welte, "I don't foresee an~· prohkms with it." 

THE RED DOOR CLUB 
presents 
Old Time Movies 
Every Wednesday Night *also recent NO Football Flix 
*BEER * WINE * LIQUOR* 
MEMBERSHIPS AVAILABLE 

students! return 


MARDI GRAS 
RAFFLE TICKETS 
books & money to your .section leaders monday & tuesday 
the essential Lyndon Johnson. forged in the political fires over a period of some ten years. was an intense dynamo of a man. a mover. a shaker. a doer. 
lie was a man who slept little and worked himself and those around him like Texas field hands. lie was constantly on the telephone. ordering. wheedling, threatening, wheeling and dealing, striving always to keep astride of t'very matter that affected the interest of the United States--and L~·ndon Johnson. 
liP was sometimes inordinately loyal to his friends, and he was a forgiving man. a kind man. he was also often a cruel man. capable of great rages and monumental eastigations of anyone who dared eross him. His vanity was legend, his compassion for a friend in trouble limitless. He was in­erediblv thin-skinned when criticize.d by the press. yet he held few grudges long. And he could shrug off attacks with the homily. "My Daddy told me that if you don't want to get shot at. stay off the firing line." 
But by the time he had decided to leave the Presidency, Johnson had apparently eoncluded that he no longer wanted to be on the firing line. 

nlllllllllllllllllllllllllIll IIIIIJlllllllllllllllllllII111111111111111II1111111111111111111111111111111II II II 11111111111' 
$100 monthly. Book fees paid, lab fees paid, etc. 
~ = ~  SPECIAL SCHOLARSHIP  §i;:  
~  OFFER  !  
=  =  
§s- CLASS OF 1975 ONLY  ~ -§  
~ ~==_;  SCHOLARSHIP INCLUDES:  2-year tuition ... free!  § -_!§==  

§ DO YOU QUALIFY? Talk to the Professor of~ ~ Aerospace Studies at the University of Notre Dame. i ~ Building 5. Call 283-6635 for further information. {If§i you're class of '76, next year is your year) ~ ~ 5 
I =-=. i DEADLINE: Applic:ation deadline is 23 February~­

1973. Act Now! 
E 5 
~-· FIND YOURSELF A SCHOLARSHIP IN AIR §==-FORCE ROTC 
= = 
MJIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIJIJIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIJ IIIIIJIIIJIIIIIJIIIJIIIIIIJIIJIIIIIIIIIIII111111111111"" 


CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 

Desperately need 4 UCLA tix. Norm 1502. 
Need 2 or 3 UCLA tickets. Thanks. Kevin 1329. 
OVERSEAS JOBS FOR STUDENTS Australia, Europe, 
S. America, Africa. Most professions, summer or full lime, expenses paid, sightseeing. Free information, wirte, TWR Co. Dept. F2, 2550 Telegraph Ave., Berkeley, CA 94704.. 
STUDENT TO DISTRIBUTE VERY UNUSUAL COMPUTER 
DAT(NG  FORMS.  $400·600  
month.  WRITE  BOX  508,  
f\OULDER, COLO.  

Need UCLA B·Ball tix, call Scott 1791 or see in 1105 Grace. 
Wanted 2 or 4 general admission lickets to UCLA game. Call 5185 or 6791. Thanks. 
Riders wanted to Kent. Ohio Friday, Jan. 26. Ken 8810 
LOST AND FOUND 

Lost· Gold wire rim glasses in red print case somewhere in the mud. Mary 232.6269. 
Lost: Silver watch with black band and safety pin on Dec. 10. Please contact Mary Beth. 5366, 537 R.N. Sll1C. 
Found: GM ignition key 1·20·73 between Fieldhouse & Library. Call 7471. 
NOTICES 

Crypt Re,cprd Store New $5·.98 ·albums .onfy• $3.92. Store hours. are 'l 6. We will deliver to your room, phone 233-4993. 
The· Karate <;:reed I come to you with only Karate ·.· emp1y hands. I have no weapons; but shoYid I be forced to defend mvself. my principals or my honor, Should it be a matter ot Iife or death, right or wrong, Then l1ere are my weapons . karate IllY empty hands. 
Join the Notre Dame Karate Club, ~all Randy 6143. 
The Ombudsman Service resumes full operations on Monday January 22. Its office will be manned from 9:30 am to 5 pm Monday thru Friday. As for Sunday evening Servic·e, it will remain closed ·for the time being. 
~----------------------------------------­
FOR RENT 
"Bt'droom tor rent in private home one mile tram campus. AU privileges ot comfortable home including cooking and (aundry. 272·2445 after 8 pm. 
FOR SALE 
For Sale: Smith Corona Galaxi II manual typewriter. $45. 259 :;266 alter 7 pm. 
For Sale, Notre Dame jacket; perfect condition; size 48: $13, half bookstore price. Call 1-terb 
8220. 
Westinghouse and Santo Compact Refrigerators. Discount prices to ND SMC students and faculty. Many models available for im· mC'diate tree delivery. Call Tom 734 0578 or 232·2618. 
68 VW in exceUent condition 
$1000. Call 232·3631 alter 5 pm. 
For Sale: Ampex 87R AM FM Stereo Cassette System. Ex cellent condition. Cheap Must sell. Call Bob 2)40. 
JVC ~·channel amp.recei·ver, pioneer turntable, 2 Sansui high power speakers, al( for $700 or by component, call 1670 for info. 
S. ereo system Pioneer 5X9000 with reverb, Dua( 1219 Sony 252 deck, 2·RDC4 spkrs; $850 will se(l all or part. Call Tim evenings 732.8661. 
PANDORA'S BOOKS has used books for: A1i1 St 357 ; 560; Art 152; 
Co1Seminar321; 182; Engl. 109; 180; 186; 311; 314; 322; 326; 345; 381; 383; 384; 385; 386; 388; 391; 392; 394; 405; 486; 525; 526; 574; 578; 684. 
G.P. 282; 382; 482; 242; 342. Gciv't 342; 418. History 112; 228; 350; 365; 402. Tl,~ol'lO; 111; 208; 212; 223; 226; 238; 
~50; 413; 416. 
PiliI 101; 201; 23t; 233; 241; 254; 275; 291; 345; 305; 347; 373; 379; 400; 426; 427. 
PERSONALS 
·: Horses sweat, men perspire) and · Dcbb.ie·Dews ·Thanks for the · Racquet Ball Game Raisin 
To ttle dumb bastard that stole my wal~ef without any money in it . Squat off. 


Tuesday, January 23, 1973
the observer
8 

Despite rally, Irish lose, 81-72 
Montanez, Wojdowski, Jackson help Duquesne stop ND win skein 
by Vic Dorr 

For a brief moment, last night's Notre Dame-Duquesne basketball game had all the overtones of another miraculous finish. 
Down at halftime, 44-32, and down in the second half, 48-33, the Irish cagers rallied to tie the game late in the final half-and surged into a li9-67 lead with less than six minutes to play. But once into the final stretch the host Dukes began to reassert themselves and Coach Digger Phelps' squad reached into its bag of late-game tricks and came up empty-handed. 
The Irish were outscored 10-2 during one spurt in the final moments, and eventually ended up on the short end of an 81-72 count. The loss-which marks the mid­way point of NO's '72-'73 cage campaign-drops the Irish beneath the .500 mark with a 6-7 record. and it leaves the Dukes with a 9-4 slate. 
While Notre Dame came .up empty-handed in general in its search for a sixth straight January victory. Gary Brokaw, NO's highly-touted sophomore guard, suffered a particularly frustrating evening. Brokaw, who came into the game as NO's leading scorer­sporting a 19.7 average-hit on 







OBSERVER 
SPORTS 
NO wrestlers triumph in 2 out of 3 
by Lefty R4schmann 
Notre Dame's wrestling team, It'd by heavyweight AI Rocek and co-captain Mike Martin, took two of three dual meets over the 1\"Pekend. 
Tlw Irish. now 4-5 on the season. dl'fPated DePaul University Vriday night by a 27-14 score, and then split a pair of Saturday contests at the Eastern Kentucky triangular meet. Host team Eastern Kentucky spoiled Notre l>aml•'s hopes for a sweep by posting a 19-17 victory after the Irish had trounced Evansville l lniversitv earlier in the day. 47-4. 
Coach Terry Mather expressed pleasure with his team's per-

Swimmers drop pair 
by Pete McHugh 
For Notre Dame's varsity swimming team. 1973 began on a losing note. After going un­defeated in two meets last semester. the Irish returned to aetion losing to Western Michigan and Bowling Green by identical 64­-19 scores. 
Despite these setbacks, the Irish continued to improve. Against Western Michigan, sophomore Jim Kane set meet records in the 100 yard and 200 yard freestyle events. Also in that meet, a pairof sophomores. Dan Makielski and Chris Payne. placed first in the one-meter and three-m ~ter dives respectively. Altogether, Notre Dame managed 20 improved times 

• 
out of 34 event entries. 
The Bowling Green meet saw the return of another sophomore, Bob Thompson. from knee surgery. Thompson. who was on the operating table in October, won the formance. saying "Generally our wrestlers have improved steadily and their execution is improving. We hope this is enough to defeat the outstanding teams we'll face the rest of the year." Mather praised Hocek and Martin for their outstanding work, along with !50­pound Pat O'Connor and Bruce Ferraro. who wrestled at 177 pounds. three weight classes above his usual weight. 
Hocek won three more matches ovt'r the weekend and extended his consecutive-win string to thirteen. His final win of the series was an unusual20-l decision over Eastern Kt>ntucky heavyweight Randy l{andolph, who successfully averted a game-deciding pin by only three of his 17 tries from the field. and finished with only six points. 
A 25-point showing by John Shumate and a double-figures effort by senior Don Silinski (10) took up some of the slack, but spotty first-half rebounding and another off-night at the free-throw line <as a team, ND converted only 41 percentofitscharity tosses> put the Irish in a hole too deep to climb out of. 
The Dukes, who have now won 16 games in a row in the Pittsburgh Civic Arena, took the first lead of the game on Oscar Jackson's baseline jump shot with 18:30 remaining in the first period. But the Irish rebounded from that initial deficit and scrapped into an early 9-6 spread before Duquesne began a push which lasted nearly the entire first half. Another two­pointer by Jackson and a corner jump shot by 6-2 Ruben Montanez put the Dukes back out in front, and Don McLane dropped in a follow shot moments later to give Duquesne a 14-11 edge-a lead they were to hold until the midway point of the final half. 
Montanez, whose 25 points tied him with Shumate for game-high honors, scored a layup and two free throws late in the first half to 
backstroke event in his first outing of the season. 
The Irish again swept diving honors. this time with freshman !\lark Foster capturing the one­meter and three-meter events. Joe O'Connor. a junior, also captured two events. winning both 200 yard and 500 yard freestyle. 
Coach Dennis Stark expressed pleasure with the work of this year's team. particularly the divers. saying "We are more competitive in diving than we were in a number of years." Notwithstanding these im­provements, he still felt the team "lacks a few people in certain posi lions." 
Notre Dame now stands 2-2 with six meets remaining along with the Motor City Invitational in March. They face Oakland University at 
7:00 p.m. tonight at the Rockne Memorial pool. The lt'ish are at home Saturday against Marshall University at 12:30 p.m. in a match originally scheduled for 2:00 pm. 
stalling. Rocek's 20 match points tied a Notre Dame club record, previously set this season by Dave Boyer and Mike Martin. 
Martin, wrestlingat 126, ran his season record to 9-2-1 with a draw and two pins in three outings, in­cluding one over DePauw's Randy Zelek. Hocek also registered a pin over DePauw's Bill Simons. Other Irish winners.all by decision, in­cluded Steve Brischetto 034), Dave Boyer (142), Pat O'Connor <150). and Hich Gilloon (158), who combined to give Notre Dame an l'arly and commanding 19-3 lead. 
Against Evansville, Marc Honquillo's initial decision in the 118-pound match gave Notre Dame the lead at 3-0, and the Irish were not threatened the rest of the way. Mike Martin registered a second­period pin over Tom Bechman, and Bruce Ferraro (177) took an im­pressive 14-4 decision, while both Pat O'Connor (150) and Pete Ml'ade < 190) each wrestled a draw, l'nabling Evansville to score its only points of the meet. 
While no member of the Notre Dame squad was able to score a pin against Eastern Kentucky, three members· of the Irish squad were able to post victories by decisions. Dave Boyer 042), Pat O'Connor. and Rich Gilloon joined heavyweight AI Rocek as winners of their respective divisions. Two other Irish matmen. Mike Martin and John Dowd (167), were in­volved in draws. 
The Irish wrestlers resume action this weekend at home, facing St. Francis of Loretto, Pa. at 7:30 Friday night,and taking on Marquette at 1:30 Saturday af­ternoon. Both meets will take place in the auxiliary gymnasium of the Athletic and Convocation Center. 
further pad the Duquesne margin, :!8-29, and then 6-4 Jack Wodjowski completed a three-point play to put the Dukes up by 14, 44-30, with less than a minute remaining. Dwight Clay's jump shot with seven seconds remaining sent the teams off at intermission with Duquesne leading, 44-32. 
The second half began with a 4-1 Duquesne spurt. but then the Irish began their comeback. A pair of eircle jumpers by Shumate and a steal-and-score layup by Silinski preceeded Montanez' first score of the second half <goal-tending>, and Shumate, Silinski, and Clay followed with baskets to cut the Duquesne lead to five, 50-45. 
Gary Novak, Clay, and Shumate combined for a six-point effort some two minutes later to pare the deficit down to one at 52-51, but Wodjowski hit a jumper to move the Dukes back into a three-point lead. Again, though, the Irish came back. Silinski's jumper and Brokaw's first two points of the night--on a follow shot from un­derneath--gave ND a 55-54 lead with II :49 left, and the two teams \'olleyed for virtually the rest of the game. 
Back-to-hack follow shots by Shumate and Brokaw gave ND a three point lead, 61-58, with 8:40 left. but Montanez registered a three-point play to knot it again at !it. There were ties at 63, 65, and 67, and the Irish took their last lead of the night on Silinski's jumper at the five-minute mark. 
"Slink's"score put ND up, 69-67, but Oscar Jackson tied it for the last time with a pair of free throws, and Jackson's scoring started the Dukes on their 10-2 surge. Notre Dame came out of its dry spell with one minute to play. A free throw by Pete Crotty and a follow shot by Novak made it 77-72, but a pair of foul shots by Wodjowski put the game away and Montanez' layup 

John Shumate, shown here against Dayton, dropped in a team-leading 25 points last night but the Irish still lost, 81-72, to Duquesne in Pittsburgh. 
at the buzzer completed the scoring. 
Novak <14), Clay (13), and Crotty < 4 > rounded out the Irish scoring, and Wodjowski (20) and Jackson <16) joined Montanez as Duquesne's big point-producers. 
NO's next court appearance will be Thursday. against Illinois, while the Dukes will travel to Philadelphia on Friday to take on LaSalle. 
Smokin'Joe 

is TKO'd 

in 2nd round 
(c) 1973 New York Times 
Underdog challenger George Foreman shocked the boxing world last night by disposing of world hea\'yweight champion Joe Frazier by a technical knockout in the second round of a scheduled 15­round bout at Kingston, Jamaica. 
A erowd of about 32,000, sub­stantially more than had been anticipated. saw one of the most startling upsets in two and a half centureies of heavyweight title matehes. Frazier, making his third title defense since he whipped former champion Muhammed Ali in 1971, had been favored at 1-to-3 odds in the local betting shops. 
Foreman. unbeaten in 37 fights and author of 34 knockouts since he won the Olympic heavyweight title in 1968, had been recognized as Frazier's most formidable op­po·nent since Ali, but most boxing men doubted that he could stand up under the pressure of a charac­teristic Frazier attack. 
Frazier never got a. chance to apply pressure. The champion tried to come out smoking, but Foreman used his greater size and longer reach to smother the fire. 
Reaching out with both hands, Foreman fended off Frazier's early rushes. turning the champion aside. Then Foreman began to land solidly. A right uppercut suddenly dropped the champion. He got up immediately but a second right brought him down. Another uppercut to the chin brought Fra~ier to his knees just before the bell, but the champion dragged himself to his feet at the eount of six. 
A right brought the fourth knock­down early in the second round. A left produced another, and referee Arthur Mercante finally stopped the fight when Frazier went down for the sixth time. 

Fencers top 

Ind., UICC 
by John Fineran 
Notre Dame's fencing team temporarily dispelled any doubts about its inexperience with opening victories over both Chicago Circle and Indiana at the 
A.C.C. Auxiliary Gym on Saturday aftl'rnoon. Purdue. which was also seheduled, did not show. but Irish coach Mike DeCicco declined the forfeit victory. 
"I'm going to wait on Purdue; they may have had a legitimate reason for not showing up. I'll see if they want to fence us later. I want our kids to get the competition. and for that reason I would like to fence them later on," he said. 
Women's Lib invaded the Irish fencing scene also on Saturday as Notre Dame's females dropped a ti-:! decision to Indiana's lasses. 
De Cicco had reason to be happy with his fencers' performance lwcause his sabremen. sup­possedly the team's weakest Wl'apon. eame through with 5-4 and \1-0 victories. He was partieularly pleased with the performances of Tri-Captain l>an Mulligan and Mike Lyons. I•:aeh recorded two victories against both opponents and, together with Roy Seitx, the trio appears ready for the other op­ponents on the Irish schedule. 
The Irish foil squad also came up with two victories. Tri-Captain l\1ike Cornwall. along with Tom Cove and Jim Mullenix. drew the proa ise of the coach< "The three should give us a good 1-2-3 punch") with seven wins out of nine matches on the afternoon. 
In the epee. Tri-Captain Mike l\latranga and John Lauch, ac­cording to DeCicco. "looked tough and aggressive." The Irish, howPver. split the two decisions. t•dging UICC 5-4 before dropping a 6-:! meeting with IU. 
The victorious, but still­cautious ·DeCicco. despite the two \'lctories and apparent strength of his team immediatelyset his sight for Notre D11me's February 3rd meeting with UICC and Wiscon­sin-· Parkside in Chicago. 'If we ean beat Wisconsin-Parkside, we'll do all right the rest of the vear. If we don't, we're in irouble."he said. 









