On The Inside 
Homecoming dance evaluated ... page 10 
Fisher Hall hosts Halloween ... page 5 


Vol. VIll, No. 37 

La-wson summerizes SLC. discussion on black student life 
by Jane Thornton Staff Reporter 
Administrators and students presented varied reactions concerning the status of black students on campus as discussed in Monday's Student Life Council meeti~g. 
Cassell Lawson, director of Black Student Affairs sum­marized the session as a reiteration of last year's demands and a progress report. 
Lawsoncitedonly four proposals made by blacks last ye~r, although Director of Staff Development and St':'-dent Mfarrs Robert Ackerman claims therewereat least eight. 
These proposals were: one, selection of a black student affairs commissioner: two, larger endowments for blacks: three, a "black house": and four, a course requirements in minority experiences. . 
Lawson is the black student affairs commissiOner requested by the first proposal, although the title is now "director." : 
Regarding endowments for blacks, the registrar and financial aid offices report that 42.5 per cent or 195 of 456 undergraduate minority students receive financial aid. Fifty­one percent or 3468 of 6796 of all univer~ity undergrad~~te students receive aid. Awards, scholarships, grants, tUition remission and part-time employment, federal programs and bank loans qualify as aid. 
The dirt:ctor's suggestion that scholarships be awarded to black students on the basis of grade point average drew speculation from Mike Hess, senior SLC member .. Com­mented Hess, "One way is to think of it as a scholarship and another way is to see it as a bribe. I'm not in favor of giving awards for grades." 
Hess continued," If monetary awards are necessary ~or blacks to achieve academic excellence, there's somethmg wrong with Notre Dame's approach to blacks." 
Former SLC representative Matt Cavanaugh charged, "The grade point is not an accurate portrayal of what the student knows. There should be more criteria for judging who wins." 
Junior SLC member Ed Rahill concurred that more scholarship money is needed. He pointed out that although 160 blacks were accepted this year, only 40 came "because other universities gave more money." 
Rahill added that the university needs a diversified student body, but "doesn't know where to go and wants to ask black students." 
The third, or "black house" proposal, was defined by Lawson as "a center off.campus where black students could come and go and do their own thing." Lawson sai? the ~ouse is no longer a priority due to several problems mcludmg a lack of funds. Ackerman and Hess agreed that the money situation probably forced the scholarship demand into top position. 
Lawson said Black Studies Program Director Joseph Scott handles the fourth proposal. Scott was unavailable for comment. 
Student representatives Ron Newkirk, Lionel Phillips and Stan Harris suggested on Monday electing more blacks to student government. Student Body President Dennis Etienne responded. "It's fine with me. It's just that I haven't gone out and recruited anyone. Most people come to see me and ask me to work. If blacks have a project they want to work on, O.K." 
Etienne agree with Lawson's statement that no balcks participate in student government, but added that he doesn't recall any blacks rumning for the nine elective posts last year. 
Hess cited Milt Jones, who ran with Floyd Kezele for Student Body Vice-President two years ago. "He didn't run as a black," Hess stated, "but as an ND student. It seems they (representatives at Monday's meeting) asked for candidates running as blacks and would thus be guaranteed the support of blacks. I would question whether one should run as a black or as a student." 
Hess contended race shouldn't be the issue in student government elections. 
Denying that the criticized the administration for not consulting black leaders before appointing the Minority Affairs Commissioner as reported in yesterday's Observer, Lawson corrected, "The appointment of Minority Mfairs Commissioner comes from student government, not the administration." 
"I'm not trying to come down on anyone," La~son claimed. However, he siad that student government off1cers should consult the black student leaders berfore making a decision to "let them feel they have a pull in the decision­making process Many feel tbat the system isclosed." H~ also, . :·. suggested· electing blacks· to the student government. ; · . 


independent prosecutor 
•

ma1n topic for 
by Ken Bradford Staff Reporter 

The Mardi Gras ticket sale was the main topic at the Hall Presidents' Council <HPC) meeting last night in the St. Ed­ward's Hall chapel. · 
Joe Griffin, co-chairman of the Mardi Gras raffle ticket com­mittee, reported that 250,000 raffle tickets have been printed and asked the hall presidents to sup­port the sales in their halls. 
The hall presidents were asked to appoint a hall sales represen­tative to distribute the tickets and collect the money from sold tickets. The representatives will receive free tickets to a concert during the Mardi Gras weekend. 
Mardi Gras, which will take place the first week and a half of February next semester, earned $7000 for charity last year, Griffin said. 
A $200 prize will be awarded to the top campus salesman this year and $100 will be given to the second best salesman, he announced. 
Griffin added that the hall with the best sale per resident will receive a $100 prize. He suggested that each hall could offer an in­centive prize to the top salesman in the hall. 
"We're trying to cut down on the prizes in order to get more money to the charities," Griffin said. 
Griffin stated that each student 

Senate 
By JANE DENISON 

WASHINGTON (UPI) -Sen­ate Democrats, heading for a showdown with President Nixon, endorsed legislation Tuesday to establish a new special Watergate prosecutor independent of both the White House and Congress. 
During a 2 %-hour caucus, the Democrats took no action on a suggestion by their leader, Mike Mansfield, that the life of the Senate Watergate commit­tee be extended and its investigation be expanded to cover the full scope of the inquiry that Archibald Cox was conducting when the President had him fired 10 days ago. 
The Democrats adopted a resolution instructing Mansfield to consult with Republican Leader Hugh Scott on the possibility of bipartisan support for creation of a totally independent prosecutor by law. 
Nixon announced last Friday that a new prosecutor would be appointed this week by Acting Attorney General Robert H. Bork. But legislation cospon­sored by more than half the Senate would provide for a prosecutor outside the execu­tive branch who would be beyond the President's reach. 
· ' · "We favor entrusting the investigation and prosecution of 
' crimirtal actions 'arising out of the Watergate affair and all of its related activities to a will be given one book of tickets to sell and the sale of ten tickets will admit the student to Mardi Gras free. 
In other HPC business, Bill McLean, director of the Om­budsman Service, announced that the university directory is ex­pected to arrive by November 7. 
He also said that his office will give each hall president a list of phone numbers for campus organizations which may relieve 
HPC 
some of the overload of calls to his office. 
McLean also reported that the 
on-campus mail service would not 
be in operation this year. 
Also discussed at the meetings were future activities of interest to members of the HPC. Included were a possible rector-hall dinner, a weekend at Lake Wawasee, the 
SeniorDeath March, and a future 
meeting with John Macheca, Dean 
of Students. 
1 
1 
j 


prosecutor who shall be in­dependent of the executive and legislative branches of the government," said the resoiu­tion, sponsored by Sen. Sam J. Ervin, D-N.C., the Watergate committee chairman. 
Mansfield said it was adopted by a 30-9 vote. Another senator said the Democrats gave their approval by voice vote, with only two or three dissents. 
Mansfield said later he did not press his suggestion to broaden the scope of the Watergate committee because it was a matter for the committee to consider. 
Ervin agreed, and urged appointment of an independent prosecutor. "If that is not done, then somebody has got to get to the bottom of these things," he said. 
Mansfield said earlier that was a task presently suited best for Ervin's committee. 

'Witches Predictions 
' 
. .. see page 9 1 

l
Saxbe rumored 
~

pick lor Attorney 1 
j 

General l 
l 

~· f; I •
.·:. 
,. ~

·: i' . • 
... \; ' ·~~.see 'page 10 j ~ 
l 

r 
r 
J _______!t~h~e~o~b~s~e~r~v~e~r____~w~e=d~ne=s=d~ay~,_o_c_to_~__r_3_1,_1_97_3_ 
warld 

briefs 
Washington--U.S. District Judge John J. Sirica said Tuesday he would hold private hearings on White House claims of executive privilege regarding portions of President Nixon's Watergate tapes before listening to the recordings. 
After meeting with White House counsel J. Fred Buzhardt and two members of former Watergate special prosecutor Archibald rox's staff, Sirica said the White House would submit "an analysis of the materials which will be transmitted to the courts with the tapes and documents themselves." 
Washington--Senate Democratic Leader Mike Mansfield urged Tuesday that the Watergate committee's life be extended and its mandate broadened to probe the full scope of scandal Arichibal Cox was investigating at the time he was fired. 
The committee, chaired by Sen. Sam J. Ervin, D-N.C., voted unanimously earlier in the day to continue its court fight to obtain five of President Nixon's secret tapes bearing on the scandal 
Washington--Archibald Cox said Tuesday President Nixon in effect would be engaging in the "ultimate coverup" of the Watergate scandal if he carried out his promise to deny the new special prosecutor any access to presidential documents. 
Washington--The White House undermined CIA leadership before and during the Watergate crisis and looked to the agency's military officials for "unquestioned compliance" with illegal or­
. ders, a House subcommittee charged Tuesday. 
Saigon--The United States and South Vietnam charged Tuesday that North Vietnam had built up its forces and equipment in the south for a possible military offensive around the end of the year. 
Saigon said it was considering striking first to defeat the Com­munist threat. 
U.S. State Department spokesman Robert J. McCloskey said in Washington that North Vietnam should _not make . any "miscalculations" of the U.S. response despite CongressiOnal restrictions on American actions in Indochina. 
an campus taday 
11 a.m.--lecture, richard berger, chairman of the sculpture 
dept., san francisco art institute,  room  104, O'shaughnessy  
hall  
12:15  p.m.--seminar,  "general  principles  of  radioim­ 

munoassay technique," dr. robert boguslaski, room 102, galvin life science 
1: 15 and 2:30 p.m.--film, "nigeria; giant in africa. the largest african nation deals with problems of tribalism, un­derdevelopment and nation-building," basement of cce, also at 7:30p.m. in black cultural arts center, Ia fortune 
3:30 p.m.--lecture, "aerodynamic sound generation In the presence of solid foundaries," marvin goldstein, room 303, engineering bldg. 
8:15 p.m.--chamber program, john stinespring, bassoon; karl reinarz, violin; louise forman, cello; william cerny piano, library aud., free 
9 a.m .. 5 p.m.--peace corps, vista--representatives In library lobby 
4 p.m.--lecture, "peace corps in ghana," willie baaste, black cultural arts center 
6:30 p.m.--meeting, sailing club, 204engineering bldg. 
7:30 p.m.--meeting, astronomers club, 123 nieuwland 

Jim -~ 
'63 
Chuck 
'65 
1723 S. Bend Avenue 272-9800 Now Available: Distillery T -Shirts -only s2oo 
J4 Brands of 'Tequila .~pe,ciql ,:-, ,H!J'?.~~. ~.~·~.~·.".-~~:: ,c;,q~~. ,·;:.~.-. 
. ~· ·, • ., ,. ~""-.-:.._;~~-; ..ii,; ··.1...v.. ~l!.9.,~... ~4~(1t"~ff.e.~ ... "~·· .. _.. "..," .. ~.. ••""'\''-"'"'~\"\ \,\.~-lc'.'..:': 
EASTON EDISON· LEFT AT LINEBACKER 200yds. on left 
10 percent DJSCOU.NT .ON .•••• · CAL:.l:.·A ·DAY· AHEAD····-· . tASES OF LIQUOR AND WINE TO ORDER KEGS 
1.5 million in war surplus missing 
television sets and other such items the United States was seeking to dispose of as the war in Southeast Asia was winding down. 
Band said far . larger sums could be involved in gear requisitioned from South Viet­nam, but his investigators had not checked it yet. The former officials who made the charges said $5 million to $6 million was involved in that country. 
The report said one of the two men directly responsible for the property had resisted repeated oral and written requests to make his personal accounts available. 
The GAO investigators said the embassy in effect contract­ed with itself to hire guards and laborers. "We believe the arrangement that existed was not businesslike," they said. 
Bike winner announced 
The winning number of the bike raffle, sponsored by the Notre Dame Swim Team, was 4120. Rev. 
O.F. Williams was the holder of that n_umber. 
The bike was donated by the St. Joseph Band and Trust. The raffle was held at noon on October 27 at twenty-five cents a ticket. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the stuaents ol the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester ($14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -Gov­ernment investigators told a House subcommittee Tuesday more than $1.5 million in surplus war property sent to Laos is missing and much larger amounts may be invol­ved. 
The investigators also said the U.S. embassy had illegally hired a staff of almost 1,000 security guards, general labor­ers and gardeners, after Congress was told it needed only 84 local employes to maintain its operations. 
The testimony came from 
investigators for the Agency for 
International Development 
<AID) and the General Ac­
counting Office (GAO) who had 
looked into allegations by two 
former embassy employees of 
widespread corruption among 
senior U.S. officials in Laos. 
Both reported to the House 
Government Operations sub­
committee on foreign opera­
tions. 
The AID investigators, led by 
William F. X. Band, said the 
embassy had kept no record on 
most of the $1.9 million in 
surplus equipment requisitioned 
from U.S. military stockpiles in 
Thailand. 
Embassy officials could not 
account for 78 per cent of what 
was supposed to have been 
delivered, they said. In addi­
tion, one former embassy 
official said he signed about 50 
blank requisition forms that 
could have been used to draw 
military surplus stocks and 
dispose of it privately. 
The equipment consisted of 
Jeeps, mess hall and kitchen 
equipment, air conditioners, 
, 

Talk about comfort... 
PLAID FLANNEL SHIRTS 
$6.50 
Soft, warm, flattering ... all this and more ... yours to enjoy with flannel. Choose from assorted colorings. 
oN "TH:g 'CAMPtfs': ·::NOTRE. DAME .... 

--.. -.... -.----. ·rn terms. 
THURS&FRI NOVEMBER 1 & 2 a &10 P.M. ENG. AUD. ADMISSIDN $1.00 
YOUR STORE 
in style, in price, 

Cease-fire brings time of calm 
By ROBERT SOUTHGATE 
FIRDAN, Sinai (UP I) -Two puffballs of smoke curled lazily in the sky above us, deceptively pretty. For these were SAM missiles and their target a reconnaisance plane. 
We had missed the noise of the missiles exploding, drowned by the throb of our jeep engine as we drove towards a pontoon bridge to cross into Sinai. But there was no mistake the smoke in the sky. And there was no mistaking the vapor trail of the jet as it streaked back toward Israel. 
Almist an hour later, the scene was repeated. But this time there was only one missile burst-and there were two jets, their vapor trails criss-crossing, as they dived away from us and out of sight. 
Despite the jets and the missiles, the cease-fire is holding firm in this sector of the east bank to the north of Ismailia. Egypt's army is well dug in; new bunkers have been built in the last week, and the engineers have moved in to begin clearing the wreckage and the debris strewn on the sand for miles around. 
There were signs all along 

the road from Cairo to Ismailia 
that life is quickly getting back 
to normal. Sheep and cattle 
were being loaded for markets 
and all the fields were being 
worked as usual, although the 
workers still clustered around 
radios to hear the news. And in 
one field I saw a king size radio 
that dwarfed the small boy who had been left to guard it. 
We passed five U.N. trucks heading back to Cairo after delivering relief supplies to Suez. "The U.N. is coming back already ? " quipped our escort. "Maybe the war has started again." 
At various points along the Ismailia canal, Egyptian sol­diers emerged from the heavily camouflaged living quarters hastily built onto barges, to do their washing, go for a swim, or just sunbathe. 
Ismailia itself has new scars to graft onto those it still bears from the war of attrition. Bombing raids have taken their toll, but already welders are at work repairing a shattered bridge across the canal. 
In the town knots of soldiers shopped for souvenirs and I saw one, sitting contentedly outside a cafe, smoking a hooka. 
Egyptian supply trucks rum­bled and clattered through the streets. And not only the materials they carried were new. So were some of the soldiers, judging from the brand new soles of their burnished boots. 
But there were old campaign­ers too. I saw one, his head swathed in bandages, clinging precariously to the side of a truck. We joined an orderly supply convoy to cross the canal ·on a pontoon bridge and drove out to the area headquarters of the army, a newly dug bunker, about two miles away. 
Frosh nominations 
Nominations for St. Mary's freshman officers opened Monday and will continue until midnight Sunday, November 4, Patti Kampsen, chairman of the election committee, announced. 
Nominations will be accepted for all freshman officer positions and two freshman assembly seats, Kampsen said. 
Elections will be conducted Monday, November 12, from 10 
a.m. to 6 p.m., she added. However, if more than three candidates apply for a position, these elections will serve as ptimaries with the run-offs set for Thursday, November 15. 
Campaigning for the elections will be held between 8 a.m. Monday, November 5 and mid­night Sunday, November 11. Campaigning for the elections will be held between 8 a.m. Monday, November and midnight Sunday,November 11. 
All students wishing to submit nominations should bring the names to Kampsen at 405 LeMans or call 5704. 
We stumbled into the gloom 
of the  bunker  to meet  the  area  
commander.  
He  guided  us  in  with  a  

flashlight and explained that the light would arrive. Sure enough five minutes later a soldier entered with a storm lantern, and 10 minutes after that the electicity was finally connected and the solitary light bulb flashed to life. 
The brigadier said that the area was quiet now, but the troops were ready for any eventuality. 
(THE OBSERVER.) 

He explained that the missile we had seen had been fired at Israeli reconnaisance planes that have passed over Egytpian 
territory  in  violation  of  the  
cease-fire.  
"They  do  not  respect  the  
U.N.  order,"  he  said.  "But  we  

do because we know the word of the United Nations is the word of the world." 
The brigadier was asked about reports that some Egyp­tian soldiers had been disap­pointed at the cease-fire because they had not gained a final victory. "War is just one element in the political strug­gle," he said. "To me it is nothing. The most important thing is that we get back Sinai." 
, The brigadier said that during the fighting his men had knocked out 300 Israeli tanks. And we were taken a couple of 
miles away to see some of the evidence-a score or more twisted, burned out wrecks, buried-or in some cases only half buried-in the sand. 

The Middle East 
Wednesday, October 31, 1973 P<Jge 3 
Canada guards the peace 
OTTAWA (UPI) -Canada's contingent on the United Nations emergency force in the Middle East could total 1,500 men and the first troops will leave in a week, Defense Minister James Richardson said Tuesday. , 
External Affairs Minister Mitchell Sharp announced Canada would supply a "logis­tics component" to the Mideast peacekeeping force and Rich­ardson Ia ter released further details on Canaa 's contribution. 

Richardson told the House of Commons Canada's contingent would total "not less than 1,000 and possibly as many as 1,500" men. He said a 300 to 400 man advance party will leave "within seven days." 
The Canadian contingent, committed for a six month • period, will be headed by Brig.­Gen D.S. Nicholson, who served on a previous UN peacekeeping force in the Middle East in 
Kissenger,Fahmi confer 
WASHINGTON <UPI) Egyptian special envoy Ismail Fahmi conferred with Secre­tary of State Henry A. Kissinger for more than four hours Tuesday and said their meeting was "constructive businesslike and frank." ' 
In a hurried interview with reporters as he ran to his limousine, Fahmi gave no indication what was discussed, or whether any agreements were made or any conclusions reached. 

Asked the purpose of his discussions, he replied only that "I came here to speak with Secretary Kissinger." Fahmi was asked if Egypt would now negotiate directly with the Israelis. "This process must take a long time," he said. 
Fahmi is to meet President Nixon at 3 p.m. EST Wednes­day. 
1956. 
External Affairs Minister 
Sharp said Canada's contribu­
tion to the new force would 
consist of "air support, tran­
sport, communications, ord­
nance and related logistics 
facilities." 
Most of the troops will be members of the airborne regiment in Edmonton but Richardson said later ' they would be joined by men "from various parts of the armed forces across Canada." 
The defense minister said initially the troops and equip­ment and supplies wil be airlifted to the Middle East but he said the rest of the force may be dispatched by ship. 
He said the Canadian contin­gent was "not a military force" but in military terms it would be "a step up from Vietnam" since they would carry rifle and machineguns for the defense of their base. 
The base will be located near the Suez Canal, he added. 


Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. accepts a cash gift from officials of Travelers Insurance Company which representes the firm's annual contribution based on the number of former students who have joined the company as agents. 
Walter Backus, chairman of the management committee, and Michael E. Quine, right, college relations chairm, presented the $1,800 gift which may be used for general operating expenses. 
I • > 

r---------------------------------------------------------------------­
Wednesday, October 31, 1973
the observer 


• ·~ •• ~ ft. 
Claims blacks original Hebrews 
by Jane Thornton Staff Reporter 

Ambassador Asiel Ben Israel presented a strange predicament to Black American Thursday night in LaFortunes' Black Arts Center. He claimed that Black .Americans are the original Hebrew Israelite Nation, the true chosen people of God and should pledge allegiance solely to that nation. 
"I'm not a Negro, a blake or an Afro-American," said the Chicago­born DePaul political science graduate. "I'm a Hebrew Israelite. It's based on the Nebrew culture and the foundation is righteousness." 
The Black Studies Program sponsored the talk entitled "Crisis in Israel: The Black Hebrew." Professor Joseph Scott of the Balck Studies Program introduced the speaker as a "real revolutionary." 
Ben Israel, an ambassador of the original Hebrew Israelite Nation, representat black American living in Dimona, Israel. The nation consists of all Black Americans who have returned to Israel and is governed by the twelve princes who founded it in 1970. 

Using scriptural references, Ben Israel traced the history of the Chosen People from the time of Ham, son of Noah, to the present. Ham's three sons, Chus, Mesraim and Phut headed the African nations of Ethiopia, Egypt and Libya, respectively. Thus, the original Hebrew nation was black. 
Blacks from Egypt settled the promised land of Canaan. 
The ambassador claimed black power declined during the middle age Holy Land Crusades. In Israel, he sid, "All things black turned bad and all things white turned good. Black nights came to mean bad nights, black roagic is spooky. As black becomes negative, white becomes positive. God takes on the character of the Europeans. 
Blacks wereuprooted from East, Central and North Mrica and sold into American slavery. Israel says this is God's just punishment for their disobedience to his laws. 
During Abraham Lincoln's time blacks regained their spiritual consciousness. Blacks made unsuccessful attempts to transfer the black nation to Liberia in the 1920's to secure a society in which the black would be assimilated ad accepted. At that time the blacks still didn't have an identity, con­tended Ben Israel. 
According to the Hebrew Israelite, God revealed that Blacks are "the lost sheep of Israel" through such men as J. D. Jones and prophet Richard Crowdy during the early twentieth century. 
Neither Black Muslims nor Malcolm X realized the true position of the black American. 

Board backs renovation 
The University Board of Trustees has reaffirmed its sup­port for the expansion and renovation of LaFortune Student Center but has asked the Ad­ministration to restudy plans for the project. 
The Trustees' action, which came after a 75-minute discussion during last week's meeting, followed receipt of unexpectedly high bids totaling $244,000 for the "first phase" renovation of LaFortune's basement into an "Irish Pub." 
The Trustees evidenced some reluctance to do the project on a piecemeal basis and asked that 
Benefit dance to be held Friday 
On Friday, November 2, Lake Michigan College will sponsor a benefit dance for the parents of Randy Foster, a Michigan College student who recently died of an enlarged heart. The proceeds from the dance will be given to Mr. and Mrs. Foster to help defray medical expenses. 
The dance will run from 8-12 
p.m. at the Shadowland Ballroom at Silver Beach, St. Joseph, Michigan. Three bands, Nevada, Oak Ridge, and Balls, will be donating their time. 
Tickets are $3.50 per person and may be reserved by calling 616-962­3747. Pledges may also be phoned in at the same number. 
For further information contact Notre Dame Student Government at 7668. 

Jordan Ford 
6o9 east Jefferson ·;
~iih~~.a~~: 

future plans look toward the in­corpotation of the present Psychology Building into what would be a student services center. 
The Department of Psychology will move into Wenninger-Kirsch Building when it is renovated into Haggar Hall of Psychology. The Trustees asked that new plans and bids to be submitted to its executive committee at its January 15 meeting. 
In other actions, The Board 
--Authorized the University to seek $800,000 to underwrite an endowed professorship in mathematics as a memorial to Rev. Howard J. Kenna, C.S.C. Father Kenna died September 13, shortly after retiring as Provincial Superior of the Indiana Province of the Congregation of Holy Cross, a position he had held since 1962. He was a former president of the University of Portland and served in several capacities at Notre Dame, including vice president for academic affairs and chairman of the Department of Mathematics. 
--Reaffirmed the so-called "open speaker policy" of the University which had recently been challeneged because of discussion of abortion in the Center for Continuing Education. In effect, he Board's discussion endorsed the recent statement of the Univer­sity's president, Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., to the effect that "we often discuss at the University ideas with which we disagree, v.g., Communism, racial prejudice, abortion, and so on, and, as a Catholic University, our disagreement is either spoken or obvious. It should likewise be obvious that universities, Catholic or otherwise, are essentially places where all human concerns are openly discussed." 
--Reasserted its position on Notre Dame faculty members and students on committees of the Board but not as trustees. The Board did note that faculty of other institutions would be eligible for Board membership. 
US delegation 
ousts chairman 
By BARRY JAMES 
MOSCOW (UPI) The American delegation at the World Congress of Peace Forces ousted one of its co­chairmen Tuesday because of a speech in which he accused the Soviet government of waging a campaign against intellectuals. 
Delegation sources said that in a closed meeting, the delegation voted, 67 to 31 with two abstentions, to oust the Rev. Paul Mayer of East Orange, N.J., who represents the Peoples Coalition for Peace and Justice. 
Mayer told the human rights commission at the ·congress .(continued on p. 11) 

L-----------------.-.~,~~~-·~·~;~~r:~:~~.~·.~,~~-----------------<:--~~.~.~.~.~~~~------r-~
. 

Saint Mary's & Notre Dame Students eligiblle for 
STUDENT TEACHING 
during the 2nd semester 1973-7 4 should apply in Room 320, Madeleva 
Application deadline 
·~ 

•;<<~:': ~-\ >>····· -Friday, Nqv'embe./'2 
Ben Israel says that Martin Luther King did, however. On his death night he claimed to have "been to the mountaintop and seen the Promised Land" which the blacks would reach as a people. 
In 1969 the Hebrew Israelites landed in Israel or "hooked our land with our God" as Ben Israel put it. 
The nation relaid the foundation of the Kingdom of God, the foun­dations of a new world order." Israel proclaimed "We announce to you that those crying for justic, peace, love and mercy--it has come. Righteousness will enter the world." 
Ben Israel commands blacks Americans "Go back and do your homework. See the conspiracy perpetuated against you. Go to history, study anthropology, see how history is geared toward the few not the many." 
The foundation of the Kingdom of God will occur within the next three and a half years, predicts Ben Israel. Peace will prevail in the Middle East for a short period followed by the "great and dradful war of Armageddon." He claims that the present Middle East war is the beginning of the end. 
To t~e black American, the revolutionary proclaimed, ·"You can make positive changes. 
Search out what you've heard so you know what to do. You are responsible. All you've heard until 
now is a lie. Investigate on your own." 

SMC Student Govt. is sponsoring an 
AUCTION 
for United Way 
Wednesday Oct. 31 
SMC Dining Hall -during dinner Bring your money for a variety of items 

otre dame concerts/Student Unio 
David Crosby 
and 
Graham Nash 

Saturday Nov. 10 at 8:00 
Paul Simon 
with Urubambaand 1he Jesse DixsonSingers 

O•Jt of respect for the artist no one wi II be seated once the oerformance has begun . • 
Tickets for the above performances are $5.50, 4.50, 
3.00 and are on sale now at the ACC Ticket Office (Gate 10)' and •the. St11dent: Union Yicket Office. Good seats a still available for both shdws!·'' · 

. ........ _______ ., ________ .. _..,._ 
I. ... .. .. • • • • • ...... ~ • • • ~ • .• . • . 

wecfnesciav,·oct~~~ :n, ·1973-----the-ohs-erv-er-.------S 
Fisher holds party lor children 
by Jeanne Murphy Staff Reporter 

Laughter and shrieks of joy from forty-seven children of Sr. Marita 's Day School echoed throughout Fisher Hall basement yesterday. The hall government celebrated Halloween with the young boys and girls and supplied games, refreshments, prizes, movies, and a lot of fun. 
Sr. Marita 's Primary Day School is an "open school" for inner-city children who are not capable of succeeding in public schools. · 
Dressed up as bums, hobos, clowns, detectives, bears, and dracula, the residents of Fisher provided that added touch which made the Halloween party for the young people a success. Joseph Carey, president of the hall, mentioned that instead of using their money for a Halloween hall party, the residents decided to donate the funds for a party for the children of Sr. Marita's. 
The success of the party depended upon good hall effort explained Carey, and the en: thusiasm of the students, both old and young. Several residents had to cut classes to pick the boys and girls from school. 
The basement was decorated 
with balloons and streamers and 
Halloween characters. Prizes of candy bars and animals balloons were given to the winners of bingo, pin-the-tail-on-the-donkey, and basketball. Each child received · his own bag of treats after the 

Dunking for apple was one of the many games provided for children at Fisher Hall 
party ended. Refreshments were served as they watched the movie "Donuts." 
The children received a special surprise when big John Shumate stopped by to Say hello. His ap­pearance proved to be a highlight of the afternoon. 
"The big kids (students from N.D.) are having a better time than the little ones," exclaimed a 'clown' from Fisher. The young boys and girls enjoyed the party and were behaving excellently, said another resident. 
All the children appeared friendly, enthusiastic, inquisitive and happy. 
Many children said that they were having a lot of fun and a good time. When one little girl was asked what she thought about the boys (Fisher residents), she said they are "funny," but she liked "Eric Penick, number 44" best because he made a touchdown last week! 
The children of the day school are those who have either failed in first or second grade or who are academically retarded and have an emotional problem, said Sr. Envodin who works closely with Sr. Marita in the school. Sr. En­vodin accompanied the children to the party. 
She said that the majority of the 

students are from the inner-city. 
Most of them are not capable of 
competing with public school 
children. They come to Sr. 
Marita's "open school" where 
there are no grades and success is 
emphasized. The children are 
economically, culturally, and 
socially deprived she said, and 
they need that feeling of success. 
Sr. Envodin explained that Sr. 

Marita's primary concern in the 
school is reading. The children do 
not know what grade they are in, 
Soldiers aiding refugees 
by JOSEPH FLEMING 

BERLIN <UPI>-A West German accused of helping East Germans escape told an East Berlin court Tuesday that American soldiers were involved in smuggling refugees through the Berlin Wall in automobiles especially rebuilt to hide them. 
The defendant, Hans Dieter Voss, a 19-year-old welder, said he briefed 13 refugees in East Berlin on how to escape with American aid. 
He said he himself smuggled at least 92 refugees out over the superhighway through East Germany connectikng West Berlin with West Germany. 
Voss went on trial Tuesday in a 

rare public trial along with another 
West German and a West Berliner 
accused of working for 
professional escape organizations 
that get refugees out for fees as 
high as $30,000. 
Voss said American soldiers hid refugees in escape automobiles and drove them into West Berlin through the Friedrich Strasse crossing point for foreigners at the 
RESEARCH 
Thousands of Topics $2.75 per page Send for your up-to-date, 160-page,
mail order catalog. Enclose $1.00 to cover postage (delivery time is 1 to 2 days). RESEARCH ASSISTANCE, INC. 
11941 WILSHIRE BLVD., SUITE #2 LOSANGELES,CAUF.90025 (2131 477-8474 or 477-5493. • . 
wall. 

He named two soldiers he said were involved in the operation, identifying them as Edward Sommerville and Mervin Smith. He said they smuggled out about 20 East Germans and were paid 
$1,670 a piece.
An American spokesman said, "We have no comment on any allegations made in connection with a trial of this sosrt in East 
Berlin." 
West Berlin officials said 
Tuesday at least 70 Western 
residents have been sentenced to 
terms as high as 71j2 years for 
aiding refugees since the Big Four 
agreement designed to lessen 
tension here went into effect June 4, 1972. 
The agreement provides that West Germans and West Berliners may travel to and from West Berlin on highways connecting Berlin with the West without East German controls. 
However, traffic of West Berliners and West Germans through the wall still is checked. Western allied military traffic is not. 
The East Germans repeatedly have said that such "misuse" of the transit routes could endanger the Big Four agreement signed by the Big Four foreign ministers here 17 months ago. 
LEARN TO JUMP 
MCPC I 
Sk d• • 
. nc • y lVI ng center 
located 15 min. North East of N.D. ... 3 miles North of Edwardsburg, Mich. 
. • . . , .• -. , • , , ) . . 
our ;::::;g~-~~~~~~tcJer.o~1~ tor.. • · "for• more information· call {616) 446-8251 ~----------~--~ 
but can move up to a higher level when they improve. 
The school is financed by the Model Cities Program and United Way. Sr. Marita has received large contirubtions from Notre Dame and private contributors but this money has been deposited in a savings account. "This year we could not have functioned without the Model Cities aid," claimed Sr. Envodin. 
Sr. Envodin also expressed a need for more students volunteers from Notre Dame. Sr. Marita is the official teacher assisted by three teacher aids. Many volun­teers are needed to "do almost anything," Sr. Envodin added. "I just cannot say enough about Notre Dame," she said, and expressed appreciation to the help and aid that Notre Dame has already given to te school. 
If interested in volunteering, contact Brother Joseph McTaggart at the Campus ministry Office. 

WORK OVERSEAS All trades, skills and professions Students and Graduates F
M aeI emae1 Higher pay, no taxes, travel to Australia, Europe, So. and Central America, Africa and So. East Asia. Write for our brochure: 
Worldwide Student Opportunities P.O. Box 1255 
1075 Camino Flores 

Thousand Oaks, Calif. 91360 
SEND FLOWERS TO TELL SOMEONE HOW YOU FEEL ABOUT THEM. 
-within walking distance from the campus -Teleflora 
The Posy Patch 
(In Roseland) 

FLOWER AND GIFT SHOP 409 Dixieway North 272-6363 

SOUTH BEND INDIANA 46637 
Bring a 
costume 
and a friend! 
ONIGHTI 
•

*live mUSIC 
*no cover charge *special on seagrams 7 and cider? 
(it's good) 


THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Jerry Lutkus Art Ferranti Dan Barrett
Editor-in-Chief 
Executive Editor Executive Editor 
NEWS: 283-1715 
Lee Gentine EDITORIALS: 283-8661 John Kloos Advertising Manaqer
Business Manager BUSINESS: 2113-7471 
Wednesday, October 31, 1973 
Out Of Courtesy 
An anticipated sellout crowd will fill the ACC this Saturday night as Paul Simon makes his celebrated appearance on the Notre Dame campus. 
But when the lights are dimmed and the artist makes his way towards center stage, those seats still unoccupied will remain that way at the request of the artist. 
And when one considers the motivation behind such a request, it seems only reasonable. 
The key to the move is one of courtesy, to the artist and the audience itself. Credit Simon with the ability to admit that the noise caused by late arrivals will divert his attention from his music. And a distracted artist can only lead to a sub­par performance. 
It -is equally as distracting for the thousands of onlookers who comply with the artist's request for punctuality. They could also find reasons to arrive late at the arena, but their decision to meet the announced starting time should be rewarded with the concert's punctual commencement. 
The past weekend's concert at the ACC was delayed for one-half by the late­arriving members of the audience. The only results of such tardiness were the stirrings of a restless crowd and some pertinent barbs tossed at the late-comers by the opening act. 
The ACC has announced that the Paul Simon conc:ert will begin Saturday at 8:30 
p.m. and there are no guarantees that it will start one minute later. The only guarantee is that those who arrive following the start of the performance will be denied access to their seats. 
And that's only fair. To Simon and yourselves. Come early and enjoy. 
Butch Ward 


.,.  
Dpinian  
The Time Is Here  
r:~rer:~ aiella  
J. Napier's column "Impeachment on Suspicion" in yesterday's Observer was laughable at best and distressing at worst. First of all, Napier shows a blatant ignorance as to the meaning of impeachment. He infers that impeachment is some kind of symbolic public hanging in which Nixon would be summarily dismissed from office. Im­peachment is no such thing. Impeachment is merely an indictment based on evidence of wrongdoing. It has nothing to do with guilt or innocence. If Nixon should be impeached by the House, he would then be tried by the Senate, and only a conviction there would result in Nixon's removal from office. Comparing an effort t() impeach Nixon with the Salem witch trials is ludicrous in view of the undeniable evidence of corruption and disregard for law and order displayed by this lawand order administration.  
Certainly, if Nixon was within his legal rights to fire Cox, then Congress is clearly within its rights to impeach Nixon. Or course, if Nixon is impeached he still has an opportunity to defend himself before the Senate, unlike Cox. Is Napier denying there aregroundsfor impeachment? I hope not. Let me quote from the American Civil Liberties Union: ·  
"He used illegal wiretaps to spy on newspaper reporters and political opponents until the United States Supreme Court made him stop. He secretly bombed Cambodia until Congress found out and made him stop. He authorized the 'plumbers' to burglarize and spy upon his political opponents until Watergate made him stop. He withheld evidence in a criminal case until a federal court ordered him to stop. And he defied that court until Congress and the people threatened to impeach him. Then he further obstructed justice by firing Archibald Cox, the only independent prosecutor the people had, and turned the Watergate investigation back to his own Justice Department."  
Then he goes on TV whenever he wants for free to say that he has no respect for the press, than he has never heard such "outrageous, vicious, distorted reporting"in 27 years of public life, and that the tougher it gets, the cooler he gets.  
All this sounds like a bit more than the overblown suspicion that Napier would have us believe it is. Evidence does not need to be proven in order to justifiably impeach a President. But what more evidence could you want than the fact that so many Nixon officials have left office and either been indicted or convicted? Something more than witches and vendettas is going on there. If Nixon gets away without being impeached it is just one more example that our democratic government is not working. It is time we recognize and practice the principle that the President is only a part, and not a royal part, of a multi-level government. In Nixon we are witnessing the complete takeover of the government by the executive branch, what Daniel Ellsberg is calling anexecutivecoup. Nixon vetoes everything Congress does and Congress doesn't have the courage to override him.  
He has taken over the Congressional budget power, the only remaining power Congress has. He has loaded the Supreme Court with men who won't challenge him. And he was ready to completely defy the judicial system in the tapes issue until the threat of im­peachment. Believe it or not, this is what is happening.  
It is only attitudes like Napier's that will allow it ot continue for three and who knows how many more years. Certainly the notion that America is some kind of incorruptible beacon of goodness should have been extinguished by now. All the undemocratic things that happen in other countries can happen here too. Only a strict enforcement of the rules of democratic government will ensure that they don't. It is time to restore some semblance of balance to our government. The responsibility calls first for impeachment. Enough has been said, the time is here.  
Our republic needs it.  

r 

the observer 
~ 
r
, 
Night Editor: Tom Devine , 
Asst. Night Editor: Jack Frischkorn ~ Layout: Joe Abell Day Editor: Jim Rosini Copy Editor: Greg Aiello Picture Screener: Jerome Phillips Typists: Connie Fourre, John Flannigan, Tom Modglin, Carol Rechtensteiner HAL Operator: Joe Abell Night Controller: t. i· clinton 
Happy Halloween 

speaker was assigned a separate portion of civil rights of racial minorities is contrasted the subject. with its corporate silence on the civil right Incidentally, I believe, as I emphasized at tolive of the unborn child, the implicit
Dpinian 
the conference, that abortion is one of the legitimization of abortion is clear. few public issues that is so clear it is not Nor is the responsibility of the University properly debatable. Nevertheless, op­to speak in behalf of the right to live of the ponents of abortion have a duty to bring the unborn met by its existing commitments to
A Call To 

truth to any who will listen. They should the cause of civil rights in general. Not one present that truth at any meeting that will of those commitments involves a specific allow the pro-life position to be presented, undertaking to defend the child in the
Condemn Abortion 
excluding those sponsored by committed womb who is deprived of the most in­


dr.charlese.rice 
This letter is open within the University community. I respectfully request the Board of Trustees to take a corporate position committing the University of Notre Dame to the proposition that all human beings, including unborn children, are entitled to the right to live guaranteed by the United States Constitution. 
In all the wars this nation has fought, from Lexington and Concord to the Vietnam War, American battle deaths totaled 668,226 <U.S. News and World Report, Feb. 5, 1973, p. 19, Vietnam War figures as of January 20, 1973). Yet, in 1972 alone, 700,000 innocent children in the wol11b were killed, legally, by abortion in this country. <U.S. News and World Report, Feb. 5, 1973, p. 36). And this total was reached under the partial relaxation of abortion laws that existed before the Supreme Court abortion rulings of January 22, 1973. In the wake of those decisions, it is estimated that 1.6 million unborn babies will be legally killed by abortion each year in the United States. 
The Supreme Court abortion decisions have ushered in the greatest slaughter of innocent human beings in any nation in the history of the world. Under those rulings, abortion cannot be forbidden until the last trimester and even then it cannot be for­bidden if it is performed for the physical or mental health of the mother. The decisions are, in effect, a license for elective abortion at any stage of the pregnancy, right up to the moment of normal delivery. 
The most important civil right is the right 
to live. The most important civil rights 
issue is abortion. The Supreme Court of the 
United States has decreed, in Roe vs. Wade 
and Doe vs. Bolton, that the child in the 
womb is a non-person and therefore not 
entitled to constitutional protection of his 
right to live. This decision is based on the 
same principle as the Dred Scott Case of 
1857, in which the Supreme Court held that 
free descendants of slaves could not be 
citizens and said that slaves were not'even 
persons. The abortion decisions of 1973 are 
the Dred Scott Case of the Twentieth Cen­
tury. They also reflect the same principle 
that underlay the Nazi extermination of the 
Jews, that an innocent human being can be 
defined as a non-person and killed if his existence is inconvenient or uncomfortable to others or it those others consider him unfit to live. Ifan innocent human being can be defined as a non-person because he is too young, that is, he has not lived nine months from his conception, there is no reason in principle why he cannot be defined as a non­person because he is too old. Or too retarded. Or too black. Or too politically undesirable.. 
It is appropriate for the University of Notre Dame, as an institution, to take a stand against abortion. There is ample precedent for such a stand in the many and varied commitments made by the University to the cause of equal justice for racial minorities. Most recently, for in­stance, the University launched a joint effort with Associates Corporation of North America to promote minority participation in small business, (South Bend Tribune, Sept. 13, 1973, p. 21, col. 1). Also, the establishment this term of the Center for Civil Rights at the University demonstrates the University's institutional commitment to racial justice. 
While the University has shown its cor­porate dedication to racial justice, it has not evidenced a corresponding institutional concern for this deprived minority, the in­nocent children in the womb who are deprived of their right to live. Un­fortunately, a failure to show that concern can fairly be regarded as an implicit con­donation ofabortionby the University. 
On June 3rd through 5th, 1973, the Great Lakes Regional Conference of Planned Parenthood-World Population was held at the Center for Continuing Education at Notre Dame. The chief speaker at the conference was Dr. Alan Guttmacher, who is the leading American exponent of the killing of unborn babies. On September 26th and 27th,1973, a conference on Government, the Family and Abortion, sponsored by the Indiana Committee for the Humanities, was held at the Center for Continuing Education. 
The September conference included some speakers who were opposed to abortion among whom I was included. However, it also included participants who favored ·abortion. The programs at that conference were not formal debates, but rather each 
Oliphant reveals... 
anti-life organizations such as Planned Parenthood where participation would lend credibility to the sponsoring group. 
While the participation of an individual opponent of abortion in a conference of "debate" on the subject does not necessarily imply a concession that the anti­life position is debatably legitimate, a differing implication can readily be drawn as to the organization that sponsors the program. To sponsor a conference or "debate" on abortion is ordinarily to imply that both the pro-life and the anti-life positions can be properly advanced by fair­minded men. This implication can become conclusive ifthe sponsoring organization itself fails to take a corporate position on the dispensable civil right-the right to live. I know that the administrators of the University are personally opposed to abortion. But the abortion issue demands of the University of Notre Dame an in­stitutional response. Whether or not a strong position in defense of life is taken by individual administrators, faculty mem­bers, students and organizations on campus, the University itself must take a corporate position. 
In his article on "The Moral Purpose of Higher Education," F'ather Hesburgh said, "I have long believed that a Christian university is worthless in our day unless it conveys to all who study within it a deep sense of the dignity of the human person, his 

'The most important civil right is the right to live.. The most important civil rights issue is abortion.' 
issue. 

It must be remembered, of course, that neither the Planned Parenthood conference nor the conference on Government, the Family, and Abortion was sponsored by the University of Notre Dame. Rather, the University allowed its premises to be used for those meetings. Nevertheless, the general implication justifiably drawn from those events was that Notre Dame somehow regards the deliberate killing of babies as a course that may be advocated proprerly on the campus of a university that claimsthe name, Catholic. One could hardly imagine that the University of Notre Dame, in 1943, woulcl have tolerated the public advocacy on its premises of the idea that the Nazis were right and that the extermination of the Jews was justified. Auschwitz and Buchenwald were not properly debatable in a civilized society and especially not in a Catholic university. Neither is abortion. 
To regard the depersonalization of in­nocent children in the womb as a genuinely debatable issue is to imply the legitimacy of the contention that innocent human beings can be so depersonalized. This implication is strengthened when the University itself takes no formal position and provides a public platform for those wh strongly ad­vocate the killing of unborn children as a legitimate solution tocontemporary problems. When the firm stand of the University of Notre Dame in defense of the 
The Middle East Conflict 
nature and high destiny, his opportunities for seeking justice in a very unjust world, his inherent nobility so needing to be achieved by himself or herself, for one's self and for others, whatever the obstacles." On another occasion, in his address to the 1971 conference of the National Catholic Education Association, Father Hesburgh said the challenge to Catholic education lies in trying to answer the demands of "the youth revolution" for "more dignity and sanctity of human life, more meaning and more rights for all human beings." (New York Times, April13, 1971, p. 20, col. I). 
I agree with these statements. And I suggest that it is indefensible for a Catholic university, as for an individual, to proclaim its advocacy of civil rights if it is unwilling to speak forcefully in support of the civil right to live of the most poor and defenseless of all minorities. Notre Dame has an op­portunity to render a great service to the nation by advancing the cause of equal justice under law for all human beings. It is unfortanate that this opportunity is likely to be missed. 
Accordingly, I respectfully request the Trustees to declare that the University of Notre Dame is committed to the proposition that the child in the womb is entitled to the same right to live that is enjoyed by other human beings and that the University, as an institution, will dedicate itself to the restoration of that right to live. 



'WELL, WELL!-HOW LONG HAS IT BEEN SINCE YOU KICKED ME OUT?' 'YOU TELL 'EM, SCOOP! TELL 'EM HOW WE DON'T N.EED THEIR LOUSY OIL!' 


'CAN ANYBODY TELL ME WHO THE WINNERS ARE?' 'TRUST ME!' 

,. 


Wednesday, October 31, 1973
8 

Cards support summer projects 
by Fred Graver halls, at the Campus Ministry card is helping Notre Dame-St. underdeveloped peoples and those here on campus." Fr. Hesburgh 
Staff Reporter office, in the post office, and in the Mary's students participate in in this country. Summer projects, praised the organization and the 
dining halls. Also, letters and CILA summer social action which enable CILA members attitude of its volunteers, saying 
Members of the Council for the brochures have been sent to projects in intercultural areas in actively to participate in the ex­that, "one of the greatest things for International Lay Apostolate faculty members. There are nine the U.S. and internationally." perience of helping people in un­your education, living in the <CILA> are on campus this week designs for the cards, all done by Through its local and in­derdeveloped areaa, become the richest part of the world, is to see selling Christmas cards to raise members of the Notre Dame ternational focus, CILA has basis for sharing new per­the poor parts of the world." 
funds to support its summer community. On the back of each developed an intercultural spectives, realizations, reflections, Financing of the summer programs. _ card appears the following tradition designed to respond to the and appreciation for other people projects has always proved to be a The cards will be on sale in the statement: "The purchase of this needs and perspectives of the in other lands. In the past years, formidable task for the members students have worked in Harlem, of CILA, especially raising moneyPeru, Haiti, Columbia, and Chile. for the expenses of transportationCILA attempts to provide an -and materials for use at the project tmosphere in which those involved sites. To finance the projects, they in the many volunteer groups at rely heavily on revenue from Notre Dame can come together to Christmas card sales and also 
Ticket exchange begins 
by Zenon Bidzinski Mary Ann McCarthy (5731) or Dan so evident there, it seems that 
share their experiences. from contributions from donors
Staff Reporter Novak (7966). students might be moved by that 
CILA is presently considering around campus.
A driver's job consists to tran­same Notre Dame spirit to donate 
sponsoring certain educational 
! 
THe student ticket exchange for sporting a group of children from their ticket." 111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111
opportunities for people on cam­
the Notre Dame-Navy football an elementary school to Stepan Wesselman remarked that he 
pus, such as filsms and lectures, to 
game got off to a slow start Center at 9:30 a.m. Saturday and has been thoroughly overcome 
encourage the ND-SMC com­Head Start
yesterday, according to senior returning the children from Stepan with the children's reactions in the 
munity to become more aware of
Arthur Wesselman, program Center to their respective schools past few years. "Anyone who's 
those who suffer from economic There will be no Head Start classes 
chairman for the year's exchange. at 5 p.m .. Monitors pick up a child ever taken a kid to the game knows 
injustice and oppression. Thursday and Friday for student
Only 65 tickets have been donated or a small group of children at 10 how much he enjoys it," he stated. 
These feelings were recently volunteers. In service training for 
so far. a.m. and accompany them until "Last year," he added, "the kids 
expressed by Fr. Theodore new teachers is being conducted on
''The response has been after the game when they return in the neighborhood study-help 
Hesburgh when he spoke at Grace those days.
disappointing, even though it was them to Stepan Center. program wrote individual 
Hall on Sunday. He called CILA
only the first day,.. stated The bulk of the children thank; you notes to Ticket Manager llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllnllll
"one of the most exciting projects 
Wesselman. The goal this year is receiving tickets are the ones Don Bouffard." 
1,,'~,,,~, 
~Qf 
~,iui\ 

In Africa or in any of the 35 countries where Divine Word 
Missionary Priests and Brothers serve. You will feel so good 1 
after a day's work that you'll do a wheelie on your way home. 
-----------~---------------'
Or call collect:If you'd like more info write: 
(319) 876 -3332
Fr. Tom Streveler, S.V.D. 
Divine Word College, Dept. C -9 Epworth, Iowa 52045 

Name--------------------------------------------­
Freshman 0 Sophmore 0 Junior 0 Senior 0 
Address --------.;_~-_:__,_,.:..:.;...,;_:,~.,;..:,.:....,,.:.,..:.,;....,r--...:,,....,.;'r',.....;...·.:..·..........., 
• • tl • 
... 
City-----------------------State-------Zip-----­
HOW ARE THINGS AT HOME? 

Long distance still is the next best thing to being there. And you can save money by calling nights or weekends. 

@ Indiana Bell 
for 700 tickets, and Wesselman hoped for 150-200 on Tuesday, opening day for the exchange. He still thinks the goal can be reached, however, since 760 tickets were collected last year. 
Sponsored by the Neighborhood Study-Help Tutoring Program, the exchange is set up to allow ND and SMC students to donate their foorball tickets to South Bend elementary school children from disadvantahed areas. This year's exchange marks the fourth annual Volunteer Services Day of the Neighborhood Study Help Program. 
Ticket exchanges will be ac­cepted today and Thursday from 9 
a.m. to 4 p.m. at the 2nd floor ACC ticket office. SMC students may also turn in their tickets at the St. Mary's dining hall during dinner both days. Students desiring to attend the last game on Thanksgiving Day will receive a receipt which they can later ex­change for their Air Force ticket. 
More drivers and monitors are also needed to assist with the exchange. Wesselman siad. Anyone wishing to serve in one of these positions and has not already signed up is urged to attend an informational meeting tonight at 
7:30 on 2nd floor LaFogtune. Students may also sign up by calling Art Wesselman (233-1745). 

being tutored by ND and SMC students. Other groups represented are Big Brothers of St. Joe County, Cerebral Palsey Assocaition, The COuncil of the Retarded, Sr. Marita 's Day School, Nottingham Mobile School, and the Northeast Neighborhood Center. 
"Some of the kids have lived in SOuth Bend all their lives and have never even brrn to ths stadium," Wesselman said. "For them, a chance to see a football game is a real thrill, one they will remember for a long time." 
He added that "its thrilling, of course, for the students to see the 
and the spirit 

Art Wesselman: Ticket exch;~nge response is poor. 


the obs~rver 

UAW gives GM strike deadline 
By EDWARD S. LECHTZIN 
UPI Auto Writer 

DETROIT <UPD -The Unit­ed Auto Workers set a Nov. 19 strike deadline with General 
Motors Tuesday unless agree­ment is reached on a new contract. 
UAW President Leonard Woodcock said that failing successful negotiations GM would be struck at 10 a.m. EST on that day. He also anounc:!d that the union's national Ford 
Council recommended rank-labor gains similar to those Woodcock said he couldn't and-file approval of a new won earlier at Chrysler Corp. tell if it would be tougher to get contract with the Ford Motor Woodcock said he would an agreement with GM, but Co. probably take personal charge warned the biggest of the auto 
The union released details of of the negotiations at GM in the "big three" it should drop its the Ford agreement showing next few days. demand for a no-strike clause 
Halloween survey reveals 
Witches forecast scandal 
NEW YORK <UPI)--A pre­predicted Spiro T. Agnew'sHalloween survey of 260 American resignation as vice-president a 
witches, who claim to have year ago, has forecast another 
"huge" government scandal unrelated to Watergate, according to the results released Monday by an organization called the New
Lampoon settles 
Volkswagen ad 
NEW YORK (UPI) -The publishers of the National Lampoon magazine Tuesday denied that they agreed to recall unsold copies of its special humor issue carrying a controversial mock advertise­ment that carried a caption saying "If Kennedy drove a Volkswagen, he'd be President now.'' 
The phony ad depicted a Volkswagen floating in water and resulted in a $30 million suit by Volkswagen against the magazine. 
An agreement was reached between Volkswagen and the magazine, and approved by the court Monday, according to Matty Simmons, chairman of the Board of Twenty-First Century Communications, Inc., the magazine publishers. 
He said no cash settlement was made and the magazine did not agree to recall any issues. Simons pointed out the issue was "practically a sel­lout" and would be off sale by Nov. 15. 
Under the agreement, Sim­mons said book dealers would be "asked -they're not re­quired to do anything" to remove the ·controversial page 
before selling the book. 
Volkswagen said the ad was 
"coarse, insensitive and 
cruel.. .a tasteless publication of 
a tragic event." It asked the 
court for a recall to protect its 
"reputation and good will." 
Federal Judge Charles L. Beieant Jr. permanently barred the Lampoon from any unau­thorized use of the Volkswagen symbol. The magazine was ordered to print a Volkswagen statement on the settlement in its next ~:clition. 
SMC offers NY theatre seminar 
ANew York theatre seminar will be offered by the cooperative department of speech and drama from January 2 to January lO, 1974. 
The $195.00 cost includes tickets to eight Broadway and ·off­Broadway productions, seminars with professionals, tours of Lincoln Center, backstage of a Broadway show, and of a scenic design shop costume shop. Hotel ac­comodations for eight nights, and daily continental breakfasts are also included. The price does not cover transportation to New York ­or other meals. No academic credit is available. 
Among the eight productions, A 
Little Night Music, The Hot L 
Baltimore, The River Niger, and 
Godspell will probably be included. 
Other productions will be selected 
from among those opening bet­
ween now and January. 
Deadline for application is 
October 31. A minimum of 25 
persons are needed for the tour. 
Interested persons can contact 
Prof. Frederic Syburg, Room 107, 
Moreau Hall, St. Mary's, phone 
284-4458. 

*SENIORS* 
LAST CHANCE 
See the finishing touches put on an undefeated season. 
NO-MIAMI 
DEC. 1st 
·sun 
·fun 



CALL CHARLIE OR BOB 233-9555 
York Center for the Strange. 
The Center gave this predictions from witches for the next year: 
--Gerald R. Ford, nominated as successfor to Agnew, will resign within three months of becoming vice president. 
--The governor of a large Eastern state will announce his divorce so he can marry a weel­known actress who has appeared in several pornographic movies. 
--A woman will be named as president of a leading labor union and another will be signed by a major baseball team on the West Coast. 
-A new medical discovery will wipte out one of the nation's major diseases. 
--The Dow-Jones industrial average will hit an all-time high of 1100 and then fall back to 800 within the next six months. 
· Results of the survey were an­nounced by Robert Carson, public , opinion research director of the center. 
in a new contract. 
"It will be a rough winter for GM if they persist in that," said Woodcock. "If they think they're going to get more lenient rules out of the UAW, they're going to have to walk over our dead bodies." 
The union's international ex­ecutive board also set a Nov. 16 deadline for settlement at Ford of Canada and a Nov. 26 strike deadline for a new contract at GM of Canada. 
There was a key difference in the early retirement program settlement provisions won at Ford and Chrysler. Ford Foundry workers are allowed to retire after 25 years of service a $700 a month pension on Oct. 1, 1978. 

THE WOODROW WILSON SCHOOL OF PUBLIC AND INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS 
Princeton University 
will interview men and women interested in graduate study leading to careers in: 
Government ServiceCriminal Justice Electoral PoliticsInternational Relations Environmental PolicyPolicy Research Urban PlanningEconomic Development 

(Generous financial aid available) at Placement Office on October 31, 1973 
CHICAGO'S SPOR SPECTACULAR WORTH THE TRIP
*See Over 7,000 
Pairs of Skis
*See Over 6,000 
Pairs of Boots 
WE TAKE 

ic See 6 Giant Floors
TRADES 

of Sports Equipment it See 14 Great Sports Departments 
SAME DAY SKI BINDING 
Save Big Money

*On Big Brand Name Ski Equipment 
• 
Head-Fischer-Yamaha 

• 
Lange-Rossignoi-Hart • K2-Kneissi-Look/Nevada 



* Ski Clubs & Groups 
AHention Call us now and we will give you $100.00 towards 


·~••••••••"•••• ..... •a•••••••• '·---· 


Wednesday, October 31, 11173
the observer 

SC band makes historic first trip 
by Paul Colgan Staff Reporter 

Last Saturday's visit by the 168 member University of Southern California marching band marks the first major trip the band has made outside of the state of California. 
Drum Major Ted Meyer, who had ever been east of Denver, said the band raised all $28,000 for the trip by themselves. The band got the idea to come last April and have been raising money ever since. 
THe USC band flew to Chicago Wednesday and played a concert there Thursday night. They bused down from Chicago Saturday for the USC-ND e:ame. 
Homecoming dance successful next year's plans underway 
by Rick Scharf Staff Reporter 

The 1973 Homecoming Dance held Friday Oct. 26, in Stepan Center was termed a success by co-ordinators of the dance, Rich Guiltinan and Gina Vol!. 
"The dance turned out to be a big success," said Guiltinan, "a few people came late, but no one left early." Over 250 couples attended the homecoming event which used "A Barn Dance" as its theme. 
Guiltinan 's announcement on Wednesday Oct. 24 that he had received permission to order kegs of beer for the dance was cited as the major factor that increased ticket sales just prior to the dance. 
Nixon to meet with Saxbe 
WASHI!\'GTON <UPI)-­President Nixon will meet with Sen. William B. Saxbe, <R-Ohio), Wednesday and offer him the post of attorney general, informed Senate sources said. 
Saxbe's office would not confirm that the White House meeting had been arranged, but Saxbe, frequently an outspoken critic of the President, told reporters he had been sounded out about taking the job by top White House aides. 
Administration sources con­firmed the essentials of the Capitol Hill report, but also were not certain a Nixon-Saxbe meeting would take place Wednesday. 
Saxbe earlier had said he wanted to meet Nixon before making a decision. 
The sources said Saxbe would not take the job unless he was satisfied the special prosecutor could operate free of presidential interference. 
Charter Group 
Flight to Orient. 
call Toll Free 

(800) 227-1969 (U.S. except California)· between llam and 2pm I 
(800) 982-5827 (California only) 
If you plan a trip to Japan, Hong Kong & Orient, make sure -' give us a call -a big savings. 

"The trip has done a lot for the band program,'' USC Band Director Dr. Arther C. Bartner said. "The people at Southern California are very much aware of the marching band now. People say, 'Hey! The band is going to Notre Dame." 
Sousaphone player Wil Heilning enjoyed the trip because "the plane ride was the bes t party I've ever been to. It was a fantastic experience." 
The USC halftime show for this game was the third out of a series of five consecutive shows for USC games. The band played a collection of contemporary songs from the best of their previous shows. 
"The beer was a big drawing mostly because people felt that they were getting more for their money. It certainly was secondary at the dance however, since all the beer we ordered was not con­sumed," he added. 
The theme chosen was not as successful as was hoped, ac­cording to Guiltinan. "Many couples came in formal dress instead of the suggested attire of blue jeans and coveralls." Stepan Center was decorated to create the atmosphere of a barn, and a lan­tern was placed on every dinner table. About 75 couples had their picture taken with the horse and wagon that was available for portraits. 
In an interview earlier Tuesday, Saxbe was asked if he would question Nixon about the possibility of Nixon's involvement in the Watergate cover-up. 
"Oh," he replied, "I think we would have to have a full discussion of a lot of things. Ob­viously we would have to have a lot of mutual confidence and trust and I have never discussed any of these 
YOU CAN'T MISS THIS ONE! ! 
seniors unite for your last pregame blast 
Fri. Nov.. 2 12:00 p.m. SENIOR 
DEA.TH MARCH 
•. n I c' ' 

'. 
issues with the Preisdent." 

Saxbe, however, in the past has compared Nixon's statements on Watergate to those of the piano player in a bawdy house who says he has no idea what's going on upstairs. 
Saxbe, 57, is a former three-term Ohio attorney general. He recently announced that he would not seek a second term in the Senate. 
"We've only had one practice before tis," Meyer said. They practiced Tuesday in Los Angeles and had a quck rehearsal in Chicago's Grant Park Friday. 
According to Reining, the· band raised the money for the trip by playing every little bit they could. "We'd play for parties or pizza parlor openings. We took everything we could get." Most of the money was raised through the Band Service Organization .<md the Booster Club. A $5,000 loan from the university completed the $28,000 total. 
Most of the band members are from California and, like Meyer, few have ever been ttis far east. 
Jane Miles, a pretty California 
Guiltinan suggested that in the future the homecoming dance should not be held on the biggest weekend of the football season. "The dance conflicted with the location for the Southern Cal. football rally this year, and on such a big week end there are plenty of other ac~ivities going on that hurt ticket sales." 
Plans for next year's homecoming dance have already begun. Guiltinan and many of the people who assisted him in organizing the 1973 dance will be involved in next year's event. "There are great possibilities for the 1974 dance since everyone learned a lot this year," Guiltinan pointed out. 
THE BARGAINS WILL BE THERE FOR THE 
CLASS OF 74.  JUST  BRI·NG  YOUR  LEGS AND  
THIRST  TO  THE  CIRCLE  AT  HIGH  NOON  
FRIDAY!!  

blonde, said "This is the first time I've been out of California." The best part of the trip for Ms. Miles was the trees and the bright fall colors. "We don't have trees like that." 
Dr. Bartner was surprised Notre Dame had women in their band. "We've only had women in the band for two years ourselves." 
The Greek style uniform worn by the Trojan band was designed by Dr. Bartner. The whole band used to wear fake breast plates. They were too awkward and un­comfortable and only the Drum Major wears one now. 
The uniqueness of the Trojan band comes from their spirit, Dr. Bartner siad. "Spirit is what it's all about." It's their band and they're in to it. They make a few mistakes but they enjoy it." 

"We're band jocks," said Meyer. 
"we're loose on regulations but tight on morale. It's the spirit rather than the rules." Meyer also noted that the band writes a lot of their own music arrangements. 
Dr. Bartner was pleased with the cooperation he received from Notre Dame especially that of the Notre Dame Marching Band. Th USC Director mentioned that he thought it was unfortunate that ND students ran out on the field and interferred with the ND band show. Dr. Bartner extended an invitation to the Notre Dame band to visit Southern California some time. 
The USC band flew back to Los Angeles Sunday. Wil Reining expected the party on the return trip to be better than the one on the trip out. 

Wednesday, October 31, 1973 the observer 1 1 
Council checks Nixon complaint 
NEW YORK <UPI)-The Na­tional News Council said Tuesday it would attempt to check the accuracy of Presi­dent Nixon's complaint last week that he had been the object of "outrageous, vicious, distorted reporting" in network 
television news programs. 
The Council, a nonprofit corporation funded by a num­ber of foundations, said it had invited the three commercial television networks and the White House to participate in the study. 
"The charges brought by the 
President against the media, 
particularly against the elec­
tronic media, are so serious 
that the National News Council 
believes they warrant a public 
airing," said Roger J. Traynor, 
a former chief justice of the 
California Supreme Court who 
s the Council's chairman. 
In order to review and 
analyze the charges by Nixon, 
the council said it had invited 
the White House "to furnish 
specific examples of the distort­
ed reporting" cited by the 
contimued from p. 4) that the Soviet Union consist­ently silences "not only intellec­tuals but any Soviet citizens who seek to exercise their rights." "The Communists on the delegation just stuck together and voted him out," said one American who was at the meeting. 
SMC choir to Vienna 
Saint Mary's College Choir, 
under the irection of Dr. James 
McCray, chairperson of the music 
department, has been invited to 
participate in the 1974 Vienna 
Symposium. 
Normally, choirs desiring to 
perform at the Symposium must 
submit a tape recording of their 
work and be judged by a com­
mittee of the Council on In­
tercultural Relations iN Vienna. 
However, last summer when the 
choir sang in Vienna during its 
European concert tour, Paul 
Koutny, the head of the Council, 
was in the audience. He was so 
impressed by the performance 
that he invited the choir to the · 
Symposium as one of the five or six 
choirs representing th United 
States. 
7:00 pm. 

President during his nationally broadcast news conference last Friday night. The council asked the networks for their coopera­tion "in reviewing tapes and transcripts of news programs relating to the administration." There was no immediate 
seen such outrageous, vicious, 27
distorted reporting in years of public life. I'm not blaming anybody for that. Perhaps what happened is that what we did 
brought it about, and that
therefore the media decided that they would have to take 
and that later its findings will services, network broadcasters 
be issued for publication." and national publications. The 
The Council was established Council also examines possible 
earlier this year "to examine infringements of constitutional 
complaints from the public guarantees of a free press." 
concerning accuracy and fair-The Council has 15 members 
f f 
ness o na 10na1 news presenta--nine representing the public
tions by wire and news and six from the media
•,---~~~-~_ __::__ ____:~=--------_::_:_::-=.::..::..::::::=.:___-, 


--
~-------­
Wednesday, October 31, 19731
12 the observer 

National titie is Irish icers' goal 
by John Fineran 
Houghton, a former mining town of perhaps 4,000 full-time inhabitants and 5,000 part-time <otherwise known as Michigan Tech students), is nestled just off Lake Superior in Michigan's Upper Peninsula. Its people don't mind the jokes about the yearly snowfall (150 inches last winter), but when someone starts in on the Huskie hockey program, look out. Houghton is proud of its Michigan Tech hockey squad. 
Houghton, Mich. will be the place were Lefty Smith's Fighting Irish will begin a long journey over the rainbow to the possible pot of gold in Boston awaiting next March--the 1974 NCAA hockey title. It could be a prosperous year for Smith's charges if one sim pie question can be answered along the way: How hard was Notre Dame hurt by graduation last year? 
The Irish enjoyed their greatest season ever in 1972-73. It was a 

record-breaking year for the second-place finishers in the tough WCHA: two All-Americans in left wing Eddie Bumbacco and defenseman Bill Nyrop, and a 23­14-1 mark. 
However, Smith and his assistants are haunted by those graduation losses which took centers John Noble (the all-time 
-leading Irish scorer) and Paul Regan, defensemen Bill Green and Mark Steinborn (now playing for the NHL Toronto Maple Leafs' Oklahoma City farm club) and goalie Chris Cathcart, a capable back-up to Mark Kronholm. 
Still, the coaching trio feels before the season is over, the fivesome will be just a memory, although a very fond one at that, to Notre Dame's fans. 
Notre Dame enjoyed its best recruiting year ever over the summer months. Perhaps eight talented freshmen will see action 

The Irish Eye 

Outside it was hot, almost unbearably hot. The temperature was ~lim bing into the 90S, and the humidity was doing likewise. It was a June afternoon that was readv-made for a mint julep, an air-eonditioned room, !lnd a televised horse race. 
And on this afternoon in June, all of those things appeared to be present 
n just the right quantities. 

The juleps, reacting predictably to the heat, began frosting over 15 :ninutes before post time. The TV reception was excellent and the an­10uncers who would call the Triple Crown racewerepredictably excited. 
But five minutes after post time it was apparent that one vital 
ngredient for a lazy afternoon in June had been misplaced. The Belmont Stakes, called the "third leg in racing's coveted Triple Crown," had not )een a horse race at all, but a stunning, marvelous display of one-horse iominance. 
For Secretariat, Meadow Stables' massive chestnut colt, had simply iestroyed a field dotted with talented title pretenders. It was still a race 1s the horses entered the first turn, but by the time they exited from the ;econd it was apparent that horse racing was to have what it had so long ;ought--another Triple Crown winner. 
The Triple Crown was not unexpected--particularly after Penny rweedy's steed had won impressively in the Kentucky Derby and the 9 reakness, but the colt's margin of victory in the third and longest leg of :he series was very unexpected. 
Secretariat, clad in the Stables' familiar blue-and-white checks, beat 1ff a brief challenge from Sham, his arch-rival, and then, down the far ;tretch, extended himself into ever-lengthening strides that made the mtcome of the race academic before the event was even half-eompleted. 
Jockey Ron Turcotte, who'd been forced to whip his mount just once Juring the first two legs of the Triple Crown series, was' along strictly for 
he ride. Secretariat carried him home 31 lengths abead of his nearest 
~hallenger; and Meadow Stables had won racing's first Triple Crown ·;ince Citation and Eddie Arcaro turned the trick in 1948. 
Secretariat took the nation by storm during the summer and, during a 
wo-month period from May to July became its biggest sports celebrity. '-lis meteoric rise to the top of racing's royalty lists began the first ·.veekend in May, when he stormed from behind to win the Kentucky )erby in record time. 
"Just look at him," bubbled Penny Tweedy, "and you can see that he's 1 winner. He knows it, too. He knows he's king." And those who saw the big chestnut perform had to agree with racing's .1ttractive, cultured first lady. 
Black-eyed Susans and Carnations followed Louisville's Roses in qui1!k ;uccession, but after that, curiously, Secretariat's fortunes began to .lecline. The nation wanted to see the colt race, and wanted very much to .ee him win--but it wanted to see him win something worthwhile. And ..tfter the Triple Crown there was very little worthwhile left for him to tchieve. 
He ran in a monumental mis-match race in Chicago's Arlington Park, md then appeared in races throughout the eastern portion of the country, >iding his time until his stud date in October. 
And then he was beaten, as the law of averages said he would be. ,ucien Lauren and Penny Tweedy may have taken their prize colt to the veil several times too often during August and September, but it was the ·aliber of his competition, and not his defeats, which eroded the 10pularity of May and June. 
Last Saturday Secretariat ran again-but for the last time. He vithstood a field of 10 other horses and a nasty, blustery day to capture he Canadian Internation Championship, and he capture it easily, by sitx md one-half lengths. 
Now he goes to stud, and becomes the concern of the syndicate mem­'>ers who combined to pay $6.08 million for his off-track services. 
And as the big red champion retires to the less competitive, more en­:oyable portion of his career. his. reputation may resume its upward urge. He was the best race horse of his era, he was the first Triple Crown winner in 25 years, and he did. what other splendid horses-horses like 
at one time or another this season. with six figuring immediately in Smith's plans. 
Junior Pat Conroy has inherited Noble's spot between the WCHA's top-two scorers of last season. Left wing Bumbacco, in addition to the All-America honors, led the team with 90 points last season while also garnering WCHA first-team mention. Tri-eaptain Ian Williams finished with 69 points and second­team league honors. 
Another trip-captain, Ric Schafer, has moved into Regan's slot between senior left wing Larry Israelson and right wing Ray De Lorenzi. Schafer has seen duty during his three-letter years at defense and right wing in addition to center. Israelson has been the top defensive forward on the squad the last two seasons, and along with DeLorenzi, a second-team league choice, has improved of­fensively as well. 
Freshman Alex Pirus (6-1, 195) scored 75 points last year in Junior A competition and Smith has him centering the third line. Two other outstanding and physical fresh­men, Clark Hamilton on the left (6­3, 190) and Paul Clarke (5-10, 170) on the right, finish up the line. 
Defensively, Nyrop, a huge (6-2, 
205) but mobile senior, will be paired with the other tri-eaptain, Steve Curry. Both could rate as two of the best defensemen in the WCHA. 
The second unit has junior Les Larson and sophomore Pat Novitzki. Larson is best described as a defensive defenseman, the kind of player goaltender's love. Novitzki gained notoriety last season from Irish fans for his puck­blocking ability on penalty situations along with senior Mike Tardani. This pair likely will see action here again this winter. 
The third defensive unit, like its offensive counterpart, is all­freshman. Brian Walsh, Boston Schoolboy of the Year in 1972, is another player in the Ric Schafer­mold, capable of playing right 

Bill Nyrop 



ND climbs after USC victory 
As far as the nation's college Oklahoma destroyed Kansas 
football pollsters are concerned, State 56-14 to hang onto third place, the only surprise in last week's while Michigan strengthened its intercollegiate action took place hold on fourth by thumping Min­right here in South Bend, where nesota, 34-7. Notre Dame upended fifth-ranked Trailing fifth place Notre Southern California, 23-14. Dame are Penn State, who clob­
That victory left the Irish with a bered West Virginia, 62-14; LSD, a 6-0 record, and moved them into fifth place in both rating surveys. 
AP Ratings
Southern Cal, last week's fifth­ranked team, dropped to ninth in the AP poll and tenth in UPI. 

Top Ten
Other than the flip-flop arrangement with the Trojans 

1 Ollio Stale (36) . .. . .. 5-0-0 1.148
<now 5-1-1), the two polls list their 

t Alabama (12) .......... 7-0-0 1.052 
top ten teams in identical order. 3. Oklahoma (9) ........... 5-0-1 961 4 Michigan (I)........... 7-0-0 876
Ohio State, a 61Hl winner over 

5. !'\otre Oaine ........... &-0-0 754Northwestern, is first in both 6. Penn Sl<lte ( 4\ .......... 7-0-9 740 
Ray Delorenzi brings an opposing goaltender to his knees. DeLorenzi and his Irish teammates will begin their '73-'74 season on Friday at 
Michigan Tech. 
Jack Brownschidle, who scored 55 points in Junior A competition last winter, will remind fans of the departed Steinborn because of his size and steady play. In fact, the newcomer will be wearing Steinborn's number--seven. 
Senior Kronholm returns for his fourth season with the Irish and his second as the regular netminder. Last season, Mark appeared in 32 games with a 4.10 goals-against to show for it. 
His backup will be either fresh­man Dave Caron or senior Don Smith. Caron, only 17-years-old, had seven shutouts and a 2.33 goals-against in Midget AA competition, while Smith had a 2.40 average in six games, including one shutout, with the Irish JV squad. 
"Although the backup goaltender is still up in the air," Smith says, "the defense is 

shaping up quite well. I've been 
pleased with its play. We think 
we're ready," the WCHA Coach of 
the Year continues. "We're eager 
to start playing." 
Besides the tough, opening 
league series at Tech, Notre Dame 
will play 32 other contests, 26 of 
them in the WCHA. Denver, last 
year's league champions, and 
Wisconsin, the defending cham­
pions, each play four games with 
Notre Dame, and both should be 
strong again this year. Michigan 
State, losing defenseman Bob Boyd 
to the pros, still has offensive 
balance and two good goaltenders 
in Ron Clark and freshman Gary 
Carr. These league teams are 
expected to challenge the Irish for 
any of the top five spots. Each 
league contest will be worth two 
points. 
Two Central Collegiate Hockey Association powers, St. Louis and Bowling Green, each play two _,games with the Irish. These games take on more importance because the NCAA Selection Committee will look at the WCHA's representative's records against 
CCHA teams. · 
Two Eastern powers, Harvard 
and Boston College, also are 
featured this season. Notre Dame 
will be meeting the Ivy League 
school for the first time, while the 
Boston College game is regarded 
as the "Battle for Catholic Hockey 
Supremacy." 
Still, every game is important toward the success of the Notre Dame sea.son. And although the Irish are rated number-two nationally in one pre-season poll, the squad has a 34-game slate plus playoffs to go through until March in Boston becomes a reality. It all starts this Friday and Saturday nights in remote Houghton, Mich. 
33-29 victor over South Carolina; and Arizona State, a 44-14 winner over Oregon State. 
The Associated Press rates UCLA lOth one notch behind Southern Cal, while UPI has the Bruins one peg above their cross­town rivals. 
UPI Ratings 
Top Ten 
1. Ohio State 5-0 (2%) . . .. 334 2. Alabama 7-0 (9)... .. .315 3 Oklahoma 5-0-1 (3)... . ·~7 
4. 
!\liclligan 7-6 . . . . 248 

5. 
Notre Dame IH (I) . 205 &. Penn State 1-0 ... 178 



llorthern Dancer, Riva Ridge, and Cannonero II -could not do. . .• , , surveys, while Alabama, a 77-fJ . 7. Loul.;inana Stale ..,.... ,, 7·0-0 518 7. LSU 7-0 . .. . .120 
8. Anzona State ...,'.,'.,'.;'7-...0 432 8. Arizona State· H....... . .. Ill
He was, as Penny Tweedy said, "a king.!". And a king deserves bettE!r victor over Virginia Tech, is 
9. So. California .... , .. ·• .L a.t-l ···331 :• { .. •9. UfLA i-1 .. ..than obscurity. second. 10. UCLA.. . .. .. .. ... .. . S-1-G ''!Jfl ID. So. Caliromia 5-t-1.. :!1 63 


