



On The Inside 
TIH' noghl lht'y raidt'd 
-Nickie's....page 8 
serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VII No. 106 Tuesday, Apri I 3, 1973 

SLC discuss~s situation of OC 
Possible solutions to problems proposed 
bv Janet Longfellow · Staff Reporter 
Possible solutions to the existing problems of off-campus students were proposed last night in an SLC Open hearing where SLC members agreed that there was much positive communication among the large number present. 
The hearing opened with a summary report from the Campus life Committee, chaired by Sr. John Miriam Jones, assistant to the provost. 
Recommendations made by the com­mittee include: --Provision of a well-staffed and knowledgeable off-campus affairs office. 
Ministry.
--A provision for off-campus Christian 
--Off-Campus Commissioner Bob Sauer's auggestion to provide a food co­operative and transportation for off­campus students. 
--Provision of a system of ldeadership, such as an off-campus student union. 
--Provision for an off-campus group with legal services to help in dealings with landlords, rent prices, and the upkeep of facilities. 
--A possible means of reducing in­voluntary moves off-campus be reassignment of existing facilities and the use of University-owned land for con­struction of permanent buildings or apartments. 
Dr. Leslie Foschio, Assistant Dean of the 
Law School explained that the committee­
s idea "is basically designed to assist the 
undergraduate, since off-campus 
residents lose what the on-campus en­
vironment has to offer." 
Assistant professor of Government Dr. 

•John Roos stated that the northeast side of the city is most effected by off-campus students. 
He noted residents' complaints that off­campus students drive up rents so that blacks cannot afford housing; don't take care of yards, leave pets alone which cause disturbance; litter with beer bottles, have loud parties, use bad language and drugs, drive recklessly and vandalize the neighborhood. 
Roos proposed the University recommend that off-campus represen­tatives formulate a code of behavioral decency, enforced by students themselves. 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iii 

He agreed that an off-campus behavior 
code would be "repugnant to many 
students, but it is necessary to family life 
to share the responsibilities of keeping up 
the neighborhood." 
South Bend Director of Public Safety 
Patrick Gallagher opened the discussion 
on relations between the communities of 
South Bend and Notre Dame by noting that 
ninety-five percent of the city's crime rate 
is due to the under-twenty-two age group. 
Since there is now a ratio of one policeman 
per every 1100 citizens, he stated, "No 
group of police can safeguard the city 
unless the residents cooperate." 
Referring to last Thursday's .police raid 
at Nickie's, Gallagher said, "The police 
are deluged with complaints around 2:00 
A.M. when the bars close. Bottles are smashed all over the A&P parking lot and to the campus." 
II checks, or "raid~." are responses to 
complaints from elders in the neigh­
borhood, which hinders the police from 
responding to other calls in the city. 
Arthur Quigley, representing the nor­
theast neighborhood, commented on the 
proposals made by the Campus Life 
Committee, "The ideas will work if done 
on a basis of self-enforcement rather than 
external enforcement." 
The hearing was then openedgeneral 
discussion. Senior Class President and 
SLC representative Jim Hunt, 
representing off-campus students for Bob 
Sauer, explained the feelings of 0-C 
students. 
"There is no unity between off-campus 
students," said Hunt. "They feel he is set 
,aside from the University. They realized they are subject to City regulations, but only as a temporary citizen to the com­munity." 



students 
South Bend Director of Public Safety Pstricl~ Gallagher, right. noted that ninety-.fi\'e percent of the city's crimes are <"Oilllllitted by those under the age of 22. 
He suggested that the students should go 
out to meet their neighbors, since good 
relationships would cause students to want 
to keep the rules. 
Fr. James L. Shilts, assistant vice­
president for student affairs, said that the 
student affairs program currently un­
derway could facilitate communication, 
since off-campus students are so spread 
out. 
He suggested, "we must find centers 
around the city which students agree will 
hold the nucleus of communication." 
The last part of the hearing was 
reserved for an emergency meeting to 
discuss a petition to rrehold Student Body 
elections. Since over 50 students signed 
the petition, the Steering Committee will 
assign it to the April 9 SLC Agenda. 

Laetare Medal awarded to John A. O'Brien 
migrants. was born in 1893 in SPven vears later, his <'a lholic subjects for such mass of the now eommonplace joint !'Poria . l\1., where he was promulgation of the "rhythm publieations as Reader's Digest, nwPiings of the two groups took
Hev. John A. O'Brien, a vetteran edut'aled in parochial schools until system" of birth control, which Look. and The Saturday Evening plat'<' under his leadership inauthor whose books and pamphlets entering. Holy Cross College, \\·as eompatible with Church l'osl. No one has ever counted his Sough Bl'nd in 1968.
have been read for a half-century Worcester. Mass., in 1910 and leaching. was criticized by some arlielps or· pamphlets but in hard­)<;l'(•n after he rPiired from
bv American Catholics, has 
~ubsequently St. Viator College in "·ho thought he was moving too I'0\'<'1' lw has written 25 books and ll'aehing. Notre Danw prm·ided abecome the first priest ever to Bourbonnais, Ill., where he last in the new pra of population Pditl'd another 12. In 1959. Notre I'I'S<'<Il'l'h base as wl'll as •·t•gubrreceive the Laetare Medal, the 
rPt'eived an undergraduate degree eontrol. l>anw gave him an honorary nmtaet with scholars. and hnlh
llniversity of Notre Dame's high­hefore entering its seminary. He doctor of' laws degree. ll'<'rl' important to his l'Onl inueo;
l'~l honor. street preaching
The selection of Father O'Brien, was ordained in 1916, so young at 23 II was typical of Father O'Brien 11-riting. In the <'arl\' l!lfi(J's Ill<' that a special dispensation was that whill' others were trying to Ford Voundation siHlnsnrl'd ;1
author-in-residence at Notre WIH'n the Second Vatican Dame. was announced Saturday rpquired. < 'ouneil opened the windows of the I'X pion• Ihe intricacies of spriPs of unpublieiz<'d spm1nars on by Hev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, After a vear of graduate work at t'l'llm<'n iea I Iheology. he was birth <'onlrol at Notn• Danw \\hil'l1
<'hurl'h in I he early 1960's, the new 

C.S.C.. president of the University. Catholic lJniversity of America in hn•pzps in such areas as Htnrgl-y, pushing alwad at the grassroots brought campus l'XpPr\s in 'l'l'{'r;ll\\'ashington. he was sent to the II'\'Pl. ,\I most singlehandly. he
tlH' priestly ministry and diseiplin<'s. from tlwoln~\' ''' most prestige llniversitv of Illinois at Cham­Pl'l'suadPd the Knights of g~·m·<·ology. and tlwir fi;1rlim:-<
l'<'umcnism were familiar to

paign-Urbana for a chaplain. <'olumhus and the 1\lasons to \\'I' I'{' summarizl'd !Jy F;ll ht•r 
Fallwr O'Brien. He fought hard

The Laetare Medal. t•onsidered While Parning a doctorate in rt'plaep their longstanding O'Bril'n in a I!HiH hook. Fan:ih
for lh<• f<:nglish Mass many years

the most prestigious annual award Pdu<·ational psychology at Illinois, suspil'ion and <'mnity with friend­!'Ianning in an F\plorli11.'
hPfnrP it !'amP to he. He supported 

of its kind. was established in 1883 Fathpr O'Brien set up the first ~hip and mutual rl'spect. The first Population.
manv of the new national 

to honor outstanding lay Catholics, sla!P-t'hartered Newman Foun­
orgai1izations of priests formed in

hut in 1968 its scope was enlarged dation offering accredited courses 
llw wakl' of tht• Counl'il. and he was 

to include priests and religious. in religion on a permanent basis at 
an Peunwnist long before the word 

"It is fitting that Father O'Brien a SP<·ular university. 
was popular. After more than two 

i~ the first priest on whom we have 
d<•<·adl's at Jllinois. Father O'Brien

!'onferred the medal." Father publications 
joi1wd !'\otn• llanw's faculty in

llt•sburgh ~aid. "While he has 
1!140 aftl'r a \'l'ar of studv in the 

)Wr~onally pioneered in several 
It was at Illinois that his ex­philosoph~· o( r<'ligion at Clxford.

apostolates --NPwman Club 
JH'rit•m·t• in ronvert-making. Ill' \\·as alreadv an <'stablished!'haplaint'y. apologetics and the apologP!it's. and pamphleterring \\Tiler and ha·d solidified his com·ert ministrv. the ecumenical hagan. lit• turned his lectures on n•putation ast lw nation's foremo~lmo\·emt•nt: -his pen has been just 
<'alholit'ism into articles for pri1•st in lhl' !'On\'1'1'1 apostolatl'. a~ tirl'less in translating important naIiona llv dis! ributed publications Itt• lra\'l•ll'd throughout thetlwologi<·al and philosophical su!'h a~ (lur Sundav Visitor. then l'Ollnl r~·. organizing Catholic In­
issues from the language of 
into pamphlets which ihegan to dot !ormation arid ('pnsus Programs in
spt•cialists into a vernacular 
tlw \'l'stihull' rat'ks of thousands of sollll' :iO dio1·esPs. a work whieh gra~pPd hy the mass of the faith­!'hurdws. and . often. finally into l'al'lll'd him many fril•nds amongful." 
hooks. sut'h as The Faith of pastors and bishops. ,\nd in a tinwTlw award . which is always :\Jillion. a 19:18 apologetics dassic \1 lll'n sln•t•t Jll'l'a!'hing w:1s inannoum·pd on the fourth Sunday of whieh l'\"t•ntually Wl'nl through 27 fashion. lw was o1w of its l<•adingLt•nt tLaetarP Sundavl, is nor­<·dit ions in 10 languages and sold pra!'liniH'rs. of!Pn gallwring small
mall~· prP~ented lo the recipient at 
mort' than two million eopies. crowds on sin•<•! <'or!li'I'S of lhl'
tlw l'niHrsity's May com­
llis IPndl'lley to he in the llt'I'Jl ~out h.IIH'IH'Pilll'nt PXercises. 
lordronl of idPas was Pvident t';Jrh·. as a 1\l:ll hook on P\'nlution tamily planning
newman foundation 
and· rl'ligion was l'nnsiderl'd so 1~.'1' .lnhn .-\ 0'/lrio•rt. 1~7.'/ l.nl'tnr!' l\1t•dnlist. has nfl<'ll d!'scril>l'd l1ims!'/fFallwr O'BriPn. a son of two lill('ral wait1•d a ~·t•ar for l't'clt•si­In ;1 IIlli t ion to (';ttholie "-' /'>llllllnh· into•ro•stc•cl in o rt•cmH·iliatiort llo't\1'<'1'11 the• Church und tho· SI'!'OIHI-gPnl•ration Irish im-asli!'al appro\·al lo print tH'riodicals. II<' now oftt•n 11 roll' on ... ,.~,.," ,,..,,,,f. 



~~2~----~th~e~o~b~s~e~r~v~e~r_____T__ue_s_d_a~y_,_A~p_ri_l~3~,~1~97~3 




' ~ 
, 
Sail-(tm--The two party joint military commtsswn, which began

r 
opl'rating as a peace-keeping body only five days ago, was threatened with a eollapse in a dispute over a besieged South Vietnamese ranger outpost at Tong Le Chan, about 50 miles north of Saigon. Saigon said tht until the dispute was settled to its satisfaction it would boycott
warld 
eomission nwetings and it hinted that it was.prepared to undertake major military action to relieve the Communist-besieged outpost. 
san <'h•nwntl'. Calif.--President Nixon and President Nguyen Van ­


briefs 

Thieu of South Vietnam began their two-{jay conference at President Nixon's homl' in San Clemente, in what the White House press secre­tarv said was an "atmosphere of friendship and cordiality." The d­iseitssions. according to the White House press secretary, included sueh topil'S as future American military and economic aid to the Saigon government. the problems caused by alleged North Viet­nanwsl' infiltration and the situaton in Cambodia, where no cease-fire has lwen twgotiated. 
(C) 197.1 New York Times 
\\'ashngton--Sen. Same J. Ervin, D.-N.C., and the White House eng­aged in a blunt and spirited exchange over the Watergate Case. The­dash lwld significant implications for the currect congressional in­n•stigation of the affair. Ervin, Chairman of the Committee in­n•st iga t ing the conspiracy, said administration officials would have to tt'stify openly on political espionage and sabotage or face arrest by the S1•ttate. 
an campus tadily 
-5 p.m.--daily adoration of Blessed sacrament, corby hall chapel 
3:30 p.m.--lecture, literature and the ­heart attack, stanley elkin, lib. aud. 
7:00 p.m.--lecture, your portfolio, a mixed bag, samuel shuster, smc finance series, carroll hall 
7:30 
p.m.--lecture, penance, a forgotten sacrament, prof. storey, sacred heart church 

7:30 
p.m.--lecture, manpower and rural development, dr. roy marshall, mexican american series, rm 122 hayes-healy 


8:00 
p.m.--lecture, rebellion and authority, the hew and modern literature, chaim potok, lib aud. 

8:00 
p.m.--discussion, humes dialogues concerning natural religion, lewis hall 

8:00 
p.m.--lecture, rebellion and authority, the jew and moder literature, chaim potok, lib. aud. 





Campus happenings • • • 
Constitution contest 

The Student Government Ministry of Propaganda is spon­soring a Constitutional Contest as a special tribute to the current difficulties within the Student <~overnment and the Hall President's Council. 
I<:ntries should be addressed to the Ministry•of Propaganda, Notre Dame Student Government, Box li39, Notte Dame, Ind. 46556. 
I All entries should be postmarked l no later than April 6, 1973. Entries will be judged on
! 
~ originality , length, format, and penmanship. Contestants are
I 
asked to submit their con­stitutional formats on 81h x 11 ~ paper. Contestants can design an entirely new constitution or just a 
r 
section of the new one. 
I ~ 
Prizes will be awarded in the categories of "best compromise", ·~best achievement in alienating all factions", "most wordy", and "most ambiguous. Further in­formation may be obtained by contacting Student Government at 
f 7001. 
I BP open-.house
r 
f t 
f
, 
co-ordinating this program "to 
make the best of the situation" of 
the replacement of males in Breen­
Phillips with females from the 'other two halls. 
. Information and floor plans will t;>e available in rooms 331, 339, 341, and 349, in the south wing of the third floor 
The presidents of Badin and Walsh, Terry Skeehan and Kim M­agnotta, both felt that it was a good opportunity for the girls to avoid ­making a blind choice in their room picks. 
Posters are up in the two female 
dorms with information. Ques­tions will be answered by Ferry <1339l and Cullan (1329). 


SMC's Indian Tour 

The proposed Indian Tour, sponsored by St. Mary's College, has been rescheduled for May 16­
June 15.  
The  all-expense  tour  was  
originally  planned  for  the  
Christmas  break  but  was  can­ 
celled.  

Priced at $998.25, the tour in­cludes transportation by air from New York to Bombay and by private car in India, and ac­l'ommodations in modern hotels with Indian or Western cuisine, as Buddhist holy places, scenic spots, universities, museums, art and shopping centers. Pullapilly is a native of India and a specialist in Indian history. 
For information and reser­vations. contact Dr. Pullapilly, Madeleva Memorial, St. Mary's. Phone -4298. 


New degree program 
~ University of Notre Dame and Butler University in In­dianapolis have announced a five­year combination liberal-arts and engineering program. 
Under the so-called 3-2 plan, a student takes three years of liberal-arts offerings and l[;Para tory engineering courses at IIMI naH~w..e!!.._by . two years in Notre Dame's Crrttege of Engineering and culminating in a bachelor's degree from Butler and 
B. S. in an engineering field from Notre Dame. 
Butler students will be eligible for !he Nortre Dame bachelor of science in seven areas of engineering: aerospace, chemical, 
civil. electrical, mechanical, metallurgical and materials 
ihe Observer is published daily <juring the college semester except 

science, and engineering science. a similar program with its own 
The combination program began College of Arts and Letters. The at Notre Dame in 1951 when the purpose was to infuse more liberal first agreement was signed with a arts work into engineering liberal arts institution and the education. Butler is the eighteenth University simultaneously started school to join the program. 

Senior Service Party 
Invites you to spend your Senior year with 
Harnisch--Pres. Giorlami--V. Pres. Kirby--Sec. Walsh··Treas 



PENANCE 
--a lenten series sponsored by Campus Ministry 
TONIGHT 

Prof. W. Storey 
Penance: a Forgotten Sarcarnen 
Tuesday, April 10 

Fr. J. Burtchaell 
Why the Need to Confess? 
Tuesday. , April 17 
Penitential Service All programs--7:30pm Sacred Hearl Cftu, .n 
----~ 


--~--~-----------------------------~ I 



New student union director lists objectives 

by l>a\'id Kan~inski · Staff HPporter 
Nt•wly appointed Student Union Director. Jim Rybarczyk announc­Pd ~·esterday the staff of the 1973-74 Student Union and outlined soeme major goals for the upcoming \"Par. · Tlw new saff members are: Ken 1\luth. associate director; Pete Bohlander. assistant director; Bob Fahrenbach. comptroller; Ken Natale. academic commissioner; Kip Anderson, cultural arts commissioner: and Jim Nowalk, student services commissioner; Mary Anne Gillespie, social c­eommissioner. 
"The Student Union is mostly c­oncerned with the social life at Notre Dame," said Rybarczyk, "­and in many ways it is the most po­werful group on campus because it eontrols all the campus social life." 
Because of this predominate role that the Union plays, Rybarczyk spoke of the need for active student involvement: "The doors of the Student Union will always be open to anyone with ideas. We want to be able to give the students what they would be interested in." 
THE OBSERVER 

('omnr issiorl!'r. Hybarczyk sees his role as mostly a coordinator. 
"I intend to oversee everything going on, correcting and r£>gulating when I see it necessary. However. once we get organized, I intend tolet the rest of the staff wo­rk independently. "I'm giving them 
a free rein to experiment and to do 
whatever they want within 
reason." Rybarczyk added. 
Concerning the renovation of 
LaFortune, Rybarczyk said that it · is important for the students to use the existing facilities to their ut­most until the renovation is 
eompleted. 
"I wish that the Student Union 
had some of the renovation money 
so that we could do something i­
mmediately for the studetns. Use 
of the ballroom for more informal 
concerts and parties is good 
because only at these small, in­
formal gatherings do you really 
get a chance to meet anyone." 
Rybarczyk pointed to the new 
stereo in th amphitheater of LaFo­
rtune as the kind of immediate 
improvement that would let the 
students enjoy the building now. 
Pete Bohlander, the new assista­
nt director, has begun a project to 
organize all student oriented 
pvents through a central calendar 
in order to avoid scheduling conf­
licts. 
"I hope to meet with all the or­
ganizations that sponsor student 
C'vents so that we can get organized 
on our scheduling. 
"I hope to be able to print up a 

·\\'<'ekly list or newsletter with the P\'<'nls earning up. and also post the major events in the Huddle so that Pvl'ryone can know what's coming up on eampus." 
Mary Anne Gillespie, the new soeial eommissioner, is a St. l\1ary's student. Rybarczyk ap­poinll'd her first for her qualifications, but also because he wants to try to bring a spirit of eol'ducation to the Student Union. 
"I don't feel like a token woman 
in the Union. I can do the job. I 
would be interested in integrating 
the staff and getting more women 
active in the Student Unin," 
(;illl'spie said. 
"I think I would be interested in more special projects. We have to sponsor more than the bit concerts. 
I would like to make Homecoming a big event with some new innovative approaches. 
"Also, since the trip to Michigan Stall' was so successful, I would l.ike to look into a trp to the Purdue football game next fall," Gillespie added. 
Ken Natale spoke about next 
year's speakers program: "We 
won't get away from the big name 

Din•clor. 
speakers next year, out we are working on a Jimited budget and we would like ·to present many speakers of general interest. 
"It is important to know who peple want to see on campus. We will be turning to the studentsa and the faculty for suggestions for our ­speakers program." 

SU in the Future 
Tuesday, April 3, 1973 Page 3 

IT&T Chairman doesn't remember bribe to C.I.A. 
by JPrt>miah O'Leary (cl l!ii:l Washington Star News 
Washington, International • Telephone and Telegraph Corp. Chairman Harold S. Geneen told S£>nate Investigators today he had no recollection of offering a ­financial contribution to C.I. 'A. ­agent William V. Broe for support of a Democratic Candidate before the 1970 Chilean election but "accepted" that he might have ­done so. 
However. Geneen acknowledged directing that the state Depart­ment and Dr. Henry A Kissinger, Presidnet Nixon's National Secur­itv Adivser. Be informed that ITT w"as willing to assist financiwlly in anv llnited States Government ­plan to protecte American Inves­tnwnt in Chile after Marxist S­:~1\·ador Allende 'Gossen's election sN•nwd eertain later that year. 
(;Piwen's testimony today before tlw senate Subcommittee on 1\lultinalional Corporations drew a sharp distintion between his m(•eting with Broe in Wahsivnton in .Julv. 1970, and ITT's decision to "'risk ·n·asonable additional funds" in 'S(•ptember when Allende app£>ared assured of the Presiden­cv. 
· Tlw Kind of United Statrs 
(;overnment plan ITT was willing 
to support financially Geenen 
tPstified. "wwould offer Allende a 
quid froquo for proceeding with 
nationalization in a manner that 
would provide for a long-term 
n•coverv of United States i­
n\'£>slments. Of course. our linking 
was very preliminary and we had 
no specific plans butr we did think 
that some socially constructive 
hoint private ind-ustry and g­
m·(•rnnwnt projects could be part 
of the over-all plan. 
"Such a plan might well envision 
the willingness on our part and 
other risking additional reasonable .funds in order to safeguard the n•ry large amount which were at risk." 
be told of ITT's "grave concern" over its investments in Chile and of its willingnes to assist financially in any government plan to help 
orotect  American  investments  
there.  
"The  amount  of  up  to  seven  

figures," Seneen said, "was ­intended to show a serious intent to gain serious attention from the government." Former Kissinger ­Aide Viron P. Vaku, now Ambas­::;ador to Costa Rica, has testified that he received the offer on Sept. II from ITT Washington repr­<'Sentative Jack Neal, did not recall what the grand was to be for and never relyed it to Kissinger. Neal testified he made the money offer to assistant secretary of Stae for Inter-American affairs Charles 
A. l\1eyer but d.id not mention its 
/nllllilllWd on page 9) 

Coming Saturday • • • 

A new publication on the Notre Dame scene 

lncliana Senator Vance Hartke's office in Washington announced yesterday that the {lllil'<'rsil.\' of Notre Dame has received a grant of $23.246 from the Department of Health. Fclucation and Wel.fare. 
This is the first year of a three-year grant. The purpose of the grant is for x-ray and cher11icnl studies of matalloporphyrins for the National Heart and Lung Institute. 
(;t'n('£'n said he directed. through St•nior ITT Vice Presidne Edward ( ;(•t-rity. that the State D~partment and l>r. Kissinger's off1ce should 
Published by The Observer Free in the dining halls 



i 4 the observer Tuesday, April 3, 1973 
~ 
Gordon asks basic stipend for TA's 
by Davt-Rust St>nior Reporter 

Vice President for Advanced Studies Robert Gordon has notified all department chairmen that he "strongly recommends" a basic m,inimum stipend of $2400 be paid to all full-time graduate teaching assistants. 
Although Gordon said in his letter to the department heads that he expected some variance about this figure, he did not expect it to go below $2100 in any case. 
Dr. Gordon's recommendation to the chairmen is the latest in a seri­('S of events rising from the issue of 
graduate  assistant  salaries  that  
l)('gan  with  a  threatened  G.A.  
strike in 1969.  

The threat which captured news­pace in the Chicago Sun Times and the New York Timt-s, evolved over complaints by,English department 
G. A.'s that their minimujm salary of $2100 a year was "impossible" to live on. . 
According to the Sun Times, the University was sympathetic to their plight, yet pleaded there were no funds available for across-the­board pay hikes. 
The G.A.'s then threatened to strike, gaining national attention by picketing at football games in front of television earners, ac­cording to present Graduate St­udent Union President Barry Wes­sels. The Sun Times reported that the U11iversity then diffused the ' situation bv promising an allocauou of $15.000 for pay raises. 
SMC collllllittee.. votes extended visitation 
by Mary Egan Staff Rt-porter 

St. Mary's Planning Committee passed a recommendation for extended male visitation hours in the residents' rooms at its meeting iast Friday night. 
"After due discussion and a consideration, the proposal passed by a vote of 14 in faovr, seven opposed. with three abstnetions." 
Constitutional fracas does not dismay Dr. Ackerman 
by Mark I>t>rheimt>r Starr Rt>porter 

Director of Student ' Activities 
Hobert Ackerman views the 
current student government 
l'Onstitutional dilemma as an 
"exercise in writing." 
He jokingly suggests that con­
stitutions A,B,C, and petition D be 
l'ombined with the Sophomore 
Literary Festival as exercises in 
creative writing.. 
Seriously, Dr. Ackerman stated, 
"The constitutional 'crisis' does 
not bother me, hopefully the 
students are learning something 
from the affair. They are learning 
to express their interests." ' 
As for the proposed con­stitutions. Ackerman does not specifically favor one, but he does not agree with any constitution that would transform the Hall Presidents Council into "something similar to the old student senate." 
AcKerman stated, "The HPC has alw~s been non-political and contributed greatly to the 
COlLEGIATE NOTES 
Understand aH subierzt!i, plays and ~ovels fast...-! 
Thousanos or t<Jl~Ms available within 48 hours of mailing Complete with bibliography and footnotes Lowest Prices are GUARAN· TEED SEliC 51.90 tor our latest .:fesuiptivfi! Mail-Order Catalogue ~ ::>ostage-Paid Order Forms 
too: · \.ULLIEGIATE RESEARCH 1 N. 13th St. Bldtl. Rm 706 Pbll•. P•. 1f107 HOT-LIItC UIS) _,.J-37~ 
said Sue Welte, .student body president and vice-chairman of the Area Committee on Student Life. 
The male visitation hours presently are from 1:00 p.m. to 
5:00 p.m. on Sundays. The recommendation suggests ex­tending these hours to include 7:00 
p.m. to !2:00p.m. on Fridays, noon to 12:00 p.m. on Saturdays, and noonto 10:00 p.m. on Sundays. 
The recommendation will now be sent to St. Mary's President Dr. Edward Henry and to the Com-
university in this way." He would like to see the body stay non­political. 
He pointed out that as late as last Thursday the HPC narrowly voted (10 to 9) to even consider the new constitutions. According to Ackerman this indicated that many of the hall presidents would like to see the council remain non­political. 
Ackerman believes some hall 

presidents have "political am­
bitions" and deisre to be president 
of the forum. 
He urges caution for the HPC 

and asks them to be aware that 
they are repudiating an old 
structure that worked well for an 
unknown new structure. 
The Dec. 12, 1969 issue of The and stipend money to a graduate Obst>rvt>r stated in its article"T.A.'s student, the student must receive 
r·ranted salary boost" that this-money was to affect only the Eng­lish department at first, but that pay raises in other departments were to follow. 
. Wessles said he didn't know how the Sun Timt-s came up with its figures, or from what source Th Obst>rvt>r learned about distribution of any funds allocated for that purpose, but it was the fact that across-the-board raises never were extended past the English department that caused the recent disgruntlement. 
There was an administration change in the period following the 1969 demonstrations, said Wessels, and "in the transition <from Fr. Paul Beichner, chairman of the committee on graduate student life, to V .P. for Advanced Studies Gordon), some of the G.A. salary increase requests were tern­porarily put aside, and the whole issue seemed to become becalmed." 
Gordon's recent letter sets down four guidelines for department chaiman to follow: --"While we're not able to increase stipends, I'm encouraging (that) chairman pay the full stipend (of $2400)," with a floor of $2100; 
--The total hours spend carrying out the G.A. assignment (teachin, grading, lab work, etc.) should not exceed 15 hours per week; --G.A. stipend money and tuition money may not be split; i.e., if a chairman assigns tuition money all of the money; and --"Once a graduate student is accepted as a teaching assistant and quoted a certain rate upon a­

admission to the graduate school, he should be assured that this pay rate is not reduced in subsequent years for those students whose academic work proves satisfacto­ry an who are reappointed to the same position." 
This last is the product of both Gordon and Wessels. 
"Apparently from Gordon's stat­ement," said Wessels, "the office of Advanced Studies has conducted a systematic study into the needs of the graduate student lifestyle. 
"The GSU and the grad students as a whole greatly appreciate the stand Dr. Gordon has taken, and hope he will continue to look into the possibilities of grad stipend increases." 
However, "I hope people realize we're at the same point we were three or four years ago (at the time of the picketing)," continued Wessels. 
He urged administrators to "remember that grad students are paying the same meat prices as£­
faculty and administrators." 

Still, said Wessels, "Although Dr. Gordon has indicated there are no signs·for across-the-board grad stipend increases, he shows con­cern for gradstudnets and families 
living near the poverty level," men-grad students decline, then a .tiortl.ng that "many of them qualify proportionate amount of grad for the food stamp program and so faculty should be reduced." 
mittee on Student Life. It will "be included in Dr. Henry's Presidential Report to the Board of Regents in May," said Welte. She explained that "on April 16, the recommendation will be con­sidered by the Committee on Student Life, which a sub­committee of the Board of Regents. 
The board will then receive the report at its meeting on May 5, the first Saturday of May, said Welte. If the Board passes the proposal, it will go into effect in the 1973-74 academic year. 
Welte feels this passage of the proposal is a "significant step" and that the request of extended hours is a "very moderate ex­tension of what we have now in lieu of what the tendencies are on many of the college campuses today." Welte expressed hope that the proposal would be reviewed "in its objectivity." 
Dean of Students Kathleen Mulaney felt that the proposal was a "reasonable request." Mulaney said the proposal was "the result of a lot of hard work and a thorough examination of as much diver­sified opinion as we could gather." 
The dean of students said that the proposal is what the majority of the students said they wanted on their surveys. "If it is a moderate proposal it is because the students wanted it," she said. 
One student felt that "St. Mary's should have visiting hours all the take advantage of it." 
Another side ot the issue was 1rea ted by a "discussion of philosophy" last summer with University President Fr. Theodore llesburgh, said Wessels. Hesburgh made it clear from the beginning that he did not want to interfere in the area. 
"The G.A. role may be viewed in one of two ways," said Wessel!;\. ""In one view the G.A.'s service to the University is only secondary to his education, and therefore his 'salary should be a tax-free stipen­d. 
"In the other view, the G .A. is a University employee and should thus be eligible for cost-of-living increases and fringe benefits, as well as taxation. 
"Fr. Hesburgh and I subst­antially agreed that Notre Dame grad students find themselves in a somewhat ambiguous role" in this regard, reported Wessles. "At this point ithe G. A. stipend is taxable, and we do not receive cost of Hving increases or fringe benefits. We enjoy the benefits of neither role." 
Both Hesubh and Wessles agreed that this was a problem, and that­."in the apparent decliine of the federal government's role in sup­porting a graduate education, all parties invovled suffer equally." In other words, said Wessels, "If the faculty gets a raise, we should get a raise, and if the number of 

time." Another said she "would like it just in the evenings because all would interfere with my privacy." 
The Planning Committee also pas~d a proposal regardicg the initiation of the Tuscon, Arizona, experimental living program. It approved a recommendation for establishing a faculty fund for research, scholarly and creative activity. 
This planning group recom­mended to President Henry that the college adopt the Area Com­mittee's Values and Goals statement. The Committee also received a financial projections · report. Action on the report is postponed until further studies are completed. 
The Planning Committee is compsed of faculty, ad­ministrators, and students who recommend to the president various reports that have been considered throughout the plan­ning process of the college and must have the Board's approval. 


IT'S LATERTHAN YOU THINK. 
On Aoril 5 , time runs out for you to enroll in the 2-year Air Force ROTC Program on this campus. And here's what you'll be missing: 
• 
$100 a month, tax-free, during your junior and senior years. 

• 
the chance to win a full Air Force scholarship (including tuition, lab fees, the works). 

• 
a challenging job as an Air Force officer upon 

graduation. plus 


• 
a future where the sky is no limit. 


Contact ROTC Building No. 5 
at (219) 283-6635 

(Available only to college juniors or students having at least 2 academic years left before graduation.) 
Find Yourself A Future In Air Force ROTC. 
Observer ads 
pay off 


Last year, in New York City alone, 7 nursing nuns made 6,322 patient visits. Not in hos­pitals. but in the patients' own homes. Fantastic? Not at all. 
Not for the Dominican Sisters of the Sick Poor. Ever since they were founded in 1876, the Sisters have been doing the impossible daily. 
Long before there were relief agencies or visiting nurses, the Dominicun Sisters were dedicated to nursing the poor in their own homes thus keeping the families together. 
Today, the Dominican Sisters of the Sick Poor are still on the job. Although their primary work is still in nursing, it ha~ been ex­panded to include social work, physiotherapy, dietetics, and al­most all health related profes· sions. Each woman has her own skill, her own special ability to offer. In this Order, which is small in size, there is both free­dom and flexibility. 
Yet the Sisters are not merely visiting •nurses but religious nurses who thinkof their patients, not as cases, but suffering mem­bers of the Mystical Body of Christ who need, even beyond material nnd physical help, the· healing unction of Christ's love... 
To learn bow you can serve as a 
Dominican Sisfer of fhe Sick Poor 
write to: 
Sister Marguerite MltcheU, 
Vocation Director 
Room 104 
Mariandale,Ossioin~,N. Y.10562 
DOMINICAN SISIERS OF 


1IIE SICK POOR.' 


Tuesday, April 3, 1973 

the observer 

•
IS 






American Airlines 
ToThe Good Life~ 
American's Waayfarer summer tours to take you away from it all. 
If you're looking forward to going away this summer, but don't have much money, we've got summer tours you'll be interested in and a brochure that tells you all about them. 
You can backpack in Arizona, hike or camp in Hawaii; see the sights of New York, San Francisco, Los Angeles, Washington, D.C., and Honolulu; and body surf in San Juan or Acapulco. Some tours are three days, and some are a week. 
Tour prices include rooming, entertainment and some meals. Or there are special rates for hotels only. If you·ve got our Waayfarer club card, you'll be able to save money on the air fare and many other attractions. (Card valid till your 22nd birthday.) And if you go to Los Angeles or San Francisco and want to stay at one of our three youth hostels, it'll be only $5 a night. And wherever you·re going we'll fly your bike out for a small charge. 
For more information write for a copy of the Waay1arer Experiences~ the Waayfarer Center. American Airlines, 633 3rd Ave .. NY. NY 10017. 
We can't give you the money to go someplace. but we can give you someplace to go on the money you have 

•EHeclive April I Sll• 
"The Good Lde c 1963 PtHIS Mus1c Co, Inc. Used by ~rrnss'LH1. 



THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Art Ferranti Executive Editor 
Dan Thornton Business Manager 
Tuesday, April 3, 1973 

Pass -No Credit 
Tlw Arts and Letters Student Advisory ('ounril's report in. yesterday's Observer rs :r solid proposal which will help ·.tud<'nts if it is implemented. The report rt'<'on n·ends that all courses be available to all students on either an A, A-, B, B-, d<'. n. No Creditor'Pass-No Credit basis, :rrHI that ''drops" be allowed up until the last clay of <'lasses. 
Tlr<' Advisory Council contacted twen­ty -four schools in putting together their 
•<'eon n endations, and found that best !"t•sults were obtained with the pass-no <·r't'dit option in schools that took a liberal :r ttitude toward the option. Schools which in plen1ented pass-no credit courses on a lin ited basis (such as Amherst and Bos­ton University ) met with little success­because the trial runs showed that stud­<'nls were disinterested or worked less in the course. 
There is no doubt that taking the pass­nocredit option in <'very course could des­troy a student's chances of getting into .!'radua te school but the overwhelming <'Videnee is that with proper counseling about which courses not to take pass-no ('l'edit, students will ·take on the responsibility that the option dictates. The report shows that at the present ­time there is only a .326 difference bet­ween the n·arks in Pass-Fail courses and non Pass-Fail courses, despite the fact that wost students now take the Pass­Fa\) option in courses in which they do not expect grades matching their average. 

The idea of removing the grade of failurcand replacing it with the No Credit option seems a fairer way to assure that a students' G.P.A. is an accurate measure 11f his abilities. There are just too many ways in which a student can fail a course wlwre n itigating circiumstances should lr:r v(' lwen taken iri to consideration. Hath­er than causing a failure in one course to keep him out of graduate school, the No Credit rating for a unsatisfactory per­forn·ance would assure thatthestudent's (;.P.A. would reflect his average per­forn·ance in courses. 
But perhaps the most compelling reason for this change from the tradit­ion a I F .e:rade is that as long as other schools such as Brown and Stanford use the No Credit grade, our graduates are at a con: petitive disadvantage with their graduates. If the University is worried that 11 nder this system students would not he serious enough about a No Credit rating, (despite the great loss in time and n oney) they could institute disciplinary :1clion against a student who does not proceed towards graduation fast enough, as is done at Stanford. 
One(' the No Credit grade has replaced the grade of F there would be no reason not to allow students to drop a course any time right up to the day tests started, ­pr·ovided the University would get :1dequa te funds for their efforts up until the time of withdrawal from the course. ­There would be no reason to make the ­teacher and student conspire to get a no­credit rating instead of being able to drop the course outright. 
The report carries no other weight than the opinion of the advisory Council, but it n·erits a fair hearing and consideration just on the strength of its conclusions. 
Dan Barrett 


Jig Time, Irish 
It's crazy, in fact it's a touch absurd, but the Muscular Dystrophy Association's Dance Marathon is worth the effort. Somewhat understandably­though, so far only three couples have signed up for this event.

! 
What it requires is that an organization of any kind put up a couple who will at­tempt to complete the 48 hour dance n·arathon. Then it is the responsibility of that organization to secure pledges fromf interested people-i.e. people who will put 
,r 
r 
r 
~ 
r 

PI'/, )t)cl~E 

f Nt:/Plft/ 1W,r'5 RKil-l1. J fHISaASS, HY /'IAH/1'5RlleN'r SKIP IJ/UIS. YDIJ? I.'H ,. flle5HHIIII.
I 
I 

Jerry Lutkus  
Editor-in-Chief  Dan Barrett  
Executive Editor  
NEWS:  283-1715  
EDITORIALS:  283-8661  Joe Butler  
BUSINESS:  283-7471  Advertising Manager  



up x amount of money per hour for the number of hours that the people will dance. The proceeds will then go to the Muscular Dystrophy Association. 
The theme of the campaign is to dance for those who can't and in compliance with that theme, The Observer will enter a couple in competition. It is the opinion of this paper that its entry cannot be defeated. For a good cause, come out and try to prove us wrong. • 
Jerry Lutkus 
Peripheral Divisian Honor And Praise To The New Student Senate 

t.c:. treanar 
If studPnls of the grotes!]ue have learned anything from the con· st it utional fraeas still playfug a long run here at Notre Dame, it is this: it takt's mon• than a <'onstitutional amendment and the opposition of 
Ill p<·r l'Pnl of the student body to keep the Student Senate down. 
All tlw politi<·al mtrails lead to this conclusion. The Hall President's <'owl('il is mPPting tonight, apparently, in order to assign itself all the gauds ;~nd lauds of the Student Senate -lock, stock, and parliamentary pro<·t•dure. Once the deed is done, all the hall presidents have to do is push an anwndment through the hall councils -a trivial, easy task, nwn~· of tlwm say privately -and it becomes law. Sponsoring and promoting the move are -surprise -two former Stay Senators, Jim <'larkP and Fred Giuffrida. 

It is curious that these two are so vocal, of course. In 1970, when the S!'nat<• was in its death throes, both Giuffrida and Clark were among tlw most violent opponents of Dave Krashna 's plans to give the HPC mon• power. According to these two Stay Senators, the Hall. !'residents had much too much to worry about running their own hall tot ake ovpr the "leg isla live" function, so-called, of the University. In lal'l. (;iu!Trida. who in those days was an Acting Young Soldier instead of a Talking Old one, went as far as to suggest that the President be l'ledPd by the Student Senate! However, the butter is on another side of the toast this year. and all is different -all, that is, except Giuf­frida's argument that the practice of electing the president through tlw Yoh' of his constituency is just, m 'lud, a "quaint American custom."1 
Otlwr than the confusing turnabout among the princtpal supporters 1tht• business of Clarke's constitutional "surprise" I won't even go into: it is too sordid for our elevated tastes, l what is remarkable about lht• Clarke constitution. <hereafter called "Constitution B"l and the <·onstitution Clarke described as an acceptable compromise, !lwreafler called "Constitution C"l?2 Principally, that the man in ehmge is no longer elected by the student body. Secondly, all the glory of "lpgislative power" is concentrated in the hands of the P HPC. Both dt•serve some sober explorations. 
Butch Ward argues that the student body is more interested in how \\'!'II student government is run than in how it gets to be run. This however. is a simplification, and an error. How well student govern­mPnt is run is a direct function of how it gets to be run. If the nH'l'hanism of choosing student government is defective, than odds an' in favor of the student government itself being defective. I suspect that a student government whose dl' facto head is chosen by a political group and not the student body is going to be de facto defective. I suspect that the student body agrees-especially since only 30 per cent of the voting public sided with Clarke and his constitution. They knew that the HPf'. no matter how desperate, would appoint a Kersten -or ind<'ed. anyone outside their circle-to the top job. But--I forget that Pl<'l'tions are just a quaint American custom. 
L<•gislative power is a somewhat different kettle of sardines. A number of Hall Presidents seem to be under the delusion that once the Constitution R or Constitution Cis passed they will be able to pass laws lik<' real legislatures. Pal McLaughlin of Pangborn seems to think that next year the Hall Presidents can busy themselves exclusively \\'ith their "legislative function" (thus making them senators) and that the vice-presidents can burden themselves with being the Hall Bossl's Uhus making them senators> and that the vice-presidents can burden themselves with being the Hall Bosses (thus making them hall prl'sidenls. l Kevin Griffin of Grace proudly anticipates the HPC's ··losing its virginity" <hopefully before 2 am l, and last week the body usl>d parliaml'ntary procedure for the first time in its history, with re­,·otes. ehallenges to there-votes, and two-thirds rules galore, just like lh<' old SPnators with their three-piece suits. 
But what is the nature of this power for which the HPC is struggling? It is the <'ssence of the air-worse, it's a vacuum. The student Senate, \\'ht'n it had all the "legislative power" used to pass edicts left and right. One would freeze the tuition fee, the next would restore the honor· code. a third might organize the Notre Dame gardeners into a llnion. The Administration would file them in the lost-and-found, or giv<' th<'m to Brother Gorch to read, or recycle them, and no one would <'\"l'n hear of them again. Pretty soon, no one would ever hear of the S<•mtt<' again. <'ilher. If this is the privilige for which the HPC is righting. B God be with them. 
Dmnmitk. if the HPC wants to legislate, let them legislate away. \\'hat difference does it make? But while they're down there l<•gislaling. playing parliamentary games, and losing their virginity, tlw~· had better keep in mind that 70 per cent of the student body voted against (']arke's constitution. And the student body occassionally gets mad. 
Or has <'Veryone forgotten John Barkett and his boys? 
I. His most recent sermon on this point was last Thursday, I think. He began his project to liberate us from these customs in Novermber of 1970. 
2. I haven't made these titles up, nor do I approve of them. I think the new constitutions should be named after symptoms of Gastric disorders. or after student government politicos of the past "Con­stitution Dowd;" Constitution Messina", "Hunter Constitution". 


oarry tradeau -------:----­
the observer 

j}H/17?.1 PIP 
11 P.o.w.?! soH6orJt 
t.N NYCtiiSS? sA'/~,? 
Nignl t:Otlor: K.lthy Schwille

f()()'JZC ,_o.w·. 
As~·t Night Editor: Rohert a.1kerKIPPIN6/ sssHH.. ~ Layout: Rod 1\raye, 0.1n B,lrrett. Beth Hi!ll \ Pl.-EASE:. Sports Night Editors: Tom McKenney Editorial Ass't: Tom Ti!lh
\ 
Day Editor: Jim Gresser .Typists: 1\.•rh Norcross. Tom Modglin. Steve Roper, Ntghl Controller: John Ft,lnnig,ln Howard Hi!ll 

Dpinian Real Freedom 


It frightens me that I couldn't think sympathetically about Lib on my own: it's harmful to cling to what you prefer to be true rather tha actively seeking out what IS. My unresponsiveness about Lib got 
dumped only when a friend troubled to talk about it, to liberate me from the arbitrary rule of my tastes and self-delusions, for which she knows I am grateful. 
I'm exceedingly unimpressed with freedom as a final goal. Of itself it doesn't answer any of the crucial questions that living raises. It IS a necessary condition for answering; but being free merely opens op­tions. and is desirable as merely an instrument, as an interrpediary goal on the way to more compelling ones. Surely we act as if having certain freedoms is worse than not having them. We want guard rails on cliff hanging mountain roads to restrict our freedom to fall, a freedom that has proven to regularly end in catastrophe for its exercisers: and of course we insist that those limits be placed in response. not to somebody's esthetic preferences, but to the realities of the situation. 
Analagously, laws restricting access to heroin are better than the freedom that they block. We also seem to believe strongly that totat freedom of personal psychology is unhealthy--freedoms, or escapes, from reality for instance: we give over to medical care infants who don't react to stimuli. In the same way, we'd probably worry about a friend who, when being approached by a careening b Mack truck, acts as if free from the demands of the situation. The freedom to remain in what is clearly harm's way simply isn't good. We might, if the friend were loved enough, even limit his freedom to be this way by saving him. 
Besides physical, legal, and psychological freedoms. there iso moral freedom. Nietzsche wrote of a superman free even from the requirements of justice; but if we allow this total freedom, we must accept Hitler, and his freedom from any decency. So it seems quite against our own sense of justice, our sense of what human beings are, to be free of some things. 
Justice is another desirable kind of limit on our freedom; and since 
justice is a possible attribute of relations with people, then other 
people. if we will treat them justly, are limits to our freedom too. To 
act justified only by one's own will free from any sharable 
requirement of justice (which it seems would be an illegitimate goal 
for a political movement like Liberation) is to treat others arbitrarily, 
because our wi_ll has no special claim to be imposed on other people. 
The dilemma is that to treat with other people really implies to impose 
SOMETHING, rather than letting them leave us wholly unaffected. 
Friendship, and inpeed love, affects the loved one. 
Willful acts, though unresponsive to any shared reality, aren't necessarily bad, or inappropriate in effect; they may chance to coincide with what the duties of love would call for. But when they harden into lifeless social habits, they don't encourage, and may well hinder. conscious pursuit of goods outside of the narrow prescriptions of convention. It's an act of pride to try to express all human goods in a formula for behavior, and then to sanction all departures; such departures may be free, conscious acts ordered towards some natural good, the nature of and accesses to which have not, to my knowledge, been exhaustively discovered. 
Lib's most positively liberating insight is that human relations are too often all form but no content ,allconventionandstyle,but free of real, personal contact. They can be as predetermined as cocktail party behaior is, or for that matter, behavwr at the typical Notre Dame party. The lifeless drifting into the contemporary cliches of behavior is a forgetting, an escaping the natural self. It's hard, it takes introspection and self-respect, to be oneself. But the forms and manners we replace ourselves with are only justified by being statistical frequencies, which are unconcerned with individual people, people needing room to grieve, and laugh, and struggle, and love. 
Well. real Liberation amouts here to a reverence for, and an inquiry into. the meaning in one's self and in reality, which function as limits on our freedom just as "4" is a limit to the ways we may answer, "How much is two and two?". Lib is a brave defense against unrooted (i.e. free l social prescriptions and their sanctions. It might be that we rise into our humanity by freeing ourselves from that sort of social manipulability. by not running after the carrot, by knowing and preferring what means most: it se~ms just for unique, irreplaceably precious human beings to search for meaning in their lives unbound at least by social conventions that have no root in their nature. 
Being liberated is worthwhile when it achieves something better than • what's been cast off. The point is that what's "better" ought not to be pre-determined by the coercion of general practice, nor in self­indulgent. unresponsive freedom, but pursued into whatever it means to he a lll'l\IM\ free agent. 

daanesbury 
MR. P!l6SIP6NT; IN 
Vtcw OP me N6W PC'/Ic£ IN. Vlt:rii/IHWE WcR.E WONPei/N6
IF We CaJtO FI#/IU.Y 11/IVEII l-OOK IJT 
yov..e se~er 
PEIIC£3 Pl.-11#. 
~ 

HR./2/IrH&!?-I C~AI i'HINI(' OF NO ReASON WHY NOT! NOW 111/JT f'e/JCEIS 1'10 UJNGe!< II sEc.ecr; r IJH rJOifi/G TO TIJ!rc Tft/IT 567:/?ffPt..A/11 (){IT OF HY 
POCKeT ANt? Relit? tr 70 YOtJ. 
' 




OBSERVER 
COMMENT April 3, 1973 Page 7 
Rabble Rubble 
Wounded Column 

Editor: 
Dan Kogovsek's column of March fifth entitled "Wounded Knee" and relating to the 1890 massacre was most stimulating. It stimulated this reader to compare Mr. Kogovsek's account with that of Robert M. Utley inhis Last Days of the Sioux Nation <Yale U. Press, 1963). In this brief note I confine myself to findings relating to just one of Mr. Kogovsek's paragraphs (the second). 
The village of Wounded Knee was not in the hands of the Sioux at the time of the massacre; nor had it been before hand. 
Wounded Knee was not the village of Big Foot, the Sioux chief. 
Sitting' Bull was not killed by the cavalry; he was assasinated by other Sioux Indians. 
Big Foot did not move his band to Wounded Knee because he had heard of the death of Sitting Bull. 
Big Foot did not lead his· band to Wounded Knee to "avoid the 'long knives' "; he and his band were under a cavalry escort when they went to Wounded Knee, a village occupied by the U.S. military before, during, and after the massacre. 
Aside from the five errors corrected above for the Observer's readers, the second paragraph was at least <.substantially correct. Rather than bore your readers with details concerning the other paragraphs, allow me to close by thanking the Observer for this most stimulating column. 
Sincerely yours, 
George Steve~ Swan Law II 


Alfey Talk 

Editor: 
){e: The Ex-Notre Dame Bowling 
Alleys <2-15-73) 
As a member of the class of 1964 
and a present grad student I would 
like to comment on the article on 
1he Great. Ten, Hardwood, 
Automatic Pin Setting. N.D. 
Bowling Alleys. 
I. The GTHAPSNDBA were literally "out of sight and out of mind". Hidden in the recesses of the bookstore it was only the most aware ND student who knew 'lf their existence. 
2. The alleys were given very little publication and-or promotion. 
Many of those students who did know of their location felt they were intended primarily for thp use of the religious members of the community. 
3. 
The concept of permanent hall residence and the hall concept as it Is Ieday was not then in force .With yearly tesi<ience changes the idea of a hall bowling team was dif­ficult to implement. 

4. 
N.D. was not co-ed and ideas such as a mixed bowling league, date night, and ladies leagues were meaningless. 

5. 
Fr. Wilson is correct in saying that the alleys were a failure.. "back then" (so was football) but .hat isn't to say that with proper planning, a good location, and a fair price the alleys couldn't succeed today. 


RobertS. Fritsch 505 Sugar Pine Dr. Mishawauka, Ind. 
High 


On God 

While driving to the campus yesterday my mind wondered and I found an interesting, underlying theme ot many of today's ad­vertisements. In the interest of brightening you and your readers' day. I'll note a few instances; Bayer is like God, it works won­ders.' •.. coke is like God, it's the 'real thing. Diamonds are like' God. they last forever. N.Y. Life 
insurance Co. is like God, it guarantees tomorrow. Bout deoderant is like God, it removes the doubt. 
Think of it for a moment and I'm sure you'll find many ads that follow the same path. Who knows, maybe God is still high flying and we haven't grounded him yet. 
Kt>cp smiling, Dan Brennan l\IBA 'i4 


-aarry trudeau 
... HH#. . .I C/IN'r.sa/11'0 FI/VP 11... ftc,q_E'( IV4 iH/I'f'S 1'1(f-../JVIV11.RY SUP, •. 1/Hif... ;r /'1Vsr Be/111 HY OTHc~ f'llt./15.. 
' 

/WY«~IIt rfle 
!MfJfJRT/fNT 'Tf/1#6IS 'TIIIJT tr WORKe:tJ/... R!Gifr?... RIGHT?... 
'\ 

To all at Notre Dame: 
Sunday I watched the game, was very disappointed, and yet it strengthened my faith in the Lord. If anybody noticed, Stevens made the sign of the cross before shooting that last freethrow. Of course you all know what hap­pened after that. 
Just before the basketball game, I learned that many of the USC football players are very active in the Charismatic Renewal. In­cidentally, this Christian movement was basically founded at Notre Dame and has swept across the nation as well as all over the world. Maybe the Lord has given us small signs' like these to show us something: that is until we really start professing our faith in Jesus Christ, our lives will have no meaning no matter how far we go. 
Sincerelv. Richard Klass Charismatic Reuewal 


Father Toohey 

Editor: 
It seems that at Notre Dame, th­ere is a group of people who are an elite without a function. By this I mean, people with the influence and· prestige who spend their time looking for causes to fight for, but none of these causes are connected with the University. In my opinion Hev. William Toohey is the biggest offender. Here is a man that ­spends so much of his time work­ing. for good causes. He has the r­espect of many students, he is well known. and he has an office that allows him to have his opinions publicized. I must say that I ra­rely agree with Father Toohey. nor have I ever been accused of being one of his biggest fans. But I con­fess that I respect him for voicing his opinions and showing such social concern. However. mv main l'riticism is not that he is vocal. but rather what he attacks. Viet Nam. 1\lr. Nixon and abortion are some of his favorites. These items haw their faults and often merit se\'ere atlat·ks. But wouldn't it bE:' bettpr for the school and the students if Fnther Toohey used his influenl'l' ­to affect more relevant topics: that is. more direetlv eonneeted to Notre Danw. Th'ough I ha\'e bl'en wt>ll n•t·sed in his political and ­mm·al feelings, I am totally ignorant of how Iw feels about parit•tal rules. lit• could surely use :-;omt• of his know-how to help those stmwnts who arc being fot'l'ed off l'ampus. These arc things that arc Iwn• and now. rather than in Washington or Saigon. Of l'ourse. tht•s<• intl'rnational issues an• i­important . hut we net•d the wl'll 
n•rst>d and articulatl' pt>opiP to t'Clll('t•ntrate on helping :\otn• llanw. To constantly allal'k things that an• not part of t'\'eryday Jifp makt•s mt• t•onsidt•r Falht>r Toohey nm• of those t•litt• without a funl'­tion. I gt•t tlw impn•ssion that lw gm•s looking for t•aust•s to crusade. :\ly point is thai. Fatht>r, you don't han• to look so far: wt•'n• got plt·nty of prohlt•ms to soh·t• right ht•n•. 
Ht•spl't'lfully. :\lidl;ll'l lksposito :!tl~ Flanrwr 

the observer Tuesday, ApriiJ, 1973 
The night they raided Nickie 's 
Last Thursday night, as all the world knows, Nickie.:_s "schlorl of quitz." but the bartender has assured him that 11 ;rs raided hy u small army of South Bend's Finest led by such a hrand of suds is not available in that quantity. ;r :--uspicious walkie-talkie toting gent in a brown tren­1:u:: a.m. An unmarked police car has pulled up in ('hl'o;ll Tht· Ohst'l'\'l'l''s undercover cleric, E. Tunstead front of Nieki<''s. t<llis. was pr<'sent and has filed the following undercover 1:u:: a.m.· Plainclothes officer of the law gets out of 
rqmrl wrillt>n as it happened. a fon•nwnt iorwd V<'hicle with walkie-talkie and uniformed polic(• t•nll'r the bar. "Hawk" cards them but they assure him tlwy arP not there to drink. Unidentified sot yells "I!aid, .. and someone is discussing means of getting to SMC for a panty raid. Uniformed officer informs sot he is 
!\larl'h :!!l: li:llll p.m.-Unidentified ID-checker known to not aflt•r panties.
his trit•rHis as "Hawk" arrives at Nickie's for· work. 
1:n; a.m. Y.II.N. is astonished at girl!) crying in their
~~·outing tlw erowd for cute chicks. "Hawk" makes 
lwl'r. For sonw reason. they are busy concealing licensesrrrl·nt:llnolt• of 26 underaged drinkers at the bar-16 guys and school II)'s. while scholarly gents are giving away;1nd 11'11 girls. · ht•l'r in a surprising display of public philanthropy. Your11 :IIH p.m. 1\ large crowd has gathered inside the bar. 
llumhll' Narrator gratefully accepts several quarts fromTlm•p unidt>ntifil'd g<'nts are taking a sauna bath in the a coiiPagul'. and shares them with Pat Kaiser.
pool room. (;irl standing six feet, three inches from the 1: 1~ a.m.·-A paddywagon has been drawn up near therniddll' pool tahlP eomments, "Wow" at a shot made on front door of the bar and drinkers under 21 have beenllw ;llorPnwntiorwd pool table. 
invill'd to take a seat. An officer has announced that the11 :::n p.m. Your Humble Narrator arrives at Nickie's, har is dosed. much to the dismay of the fellows still en­t'oll\llH'Illing to "Hawk." "How's you doin''?" Y.H.N. 
jo~·ing their sauna hath. The chicks who had argued withn·t·Pin•s jah in rihs from bestest friend, who exclaims "Hawk" are now crying on his shoulder and asking him to
dispassio;tatdy. "IIi!" . 
gPI t hl'm out of the bar. Y.H.N. philosophizes to Kaiser\larl'h ::n: 1~: 1~ a.m.·· Two police officers approach Ihat tlw:v \\'l'r<' just recently hitching at him to let them in.
1ront door of Niekit>'s, requesting 11forementioned Thl' \'outh of today ... 
unidt•ntified ID-dwck<'r to restrict flow of alcoholic I ::iii a.m. 1\ crowd of several hundred irate studentsht·\·t•ragPs into and out of the bar. Officers receive torrent has galhl'rPd outside the bar, singing the Victory March11! ohst't'lll' ahusP from tipsy erowd milling near the d~or._ 
;md assortl'd other favorites. Ohsl'rvl.'r photographer JimTIH'\' Pxpn•ss dissatisfuction at aforementioned profamty. 
llunt is laking pictures. and has been threatened by an
1:i:::; a.m. Star-studded team of championship I 
offit'<'r with eonfiscation of his camera. Should the policedrinkt•rs has arrivl'd after vigorous exercise at the Senior . 
1 \rant his camPra. he directs them. "I'll be over there!
1\;11· Tht• tnult·rag<'d erowd has gotten drunk, undoubtedly · Hight in tlw middle of that crowd'"1rom inh;llation of alcoholic fumes emanating from , 1:~!I a .111. ThP crowd outside has let the air out of eight, l'lt'l'<llts. Two SM(' chicks and one Domer. all with polict• I irps and police dogs have arrived. The police leaveqr11·stion;thlP m-s. hurl abuse at the ID checker, trying to thl' har and tlw raid is over. Crowd adjourns to Shirley's;l('rsuadt• him tnPy "rpally were horn in 1951." At the bar, lor hn•akfast.
11 orld famous forrnPr SBP candidate is trying to order a 
1eft. Nicl~ie'.~ during last Thursda.v's official moratorium Oil ch·illl~illg: alJO\'C', the> raddywagon Jim Clarke thought II'Cis ru1111i11g a shuttle sen•ice to SMC; below a l~indly gent te~lu·s his pup .for a 111idnight stroll. 
( l'l!otos h.l' .Tint lltmt) 


Bummer: a night in the South Bend jail 
Last Thursday night began like most of my regular 
Thursday nights at Notre Dame; I started out the evening 
with a little work on one of the new constitutions for student 
governm(•nl. After I was finished, I decided to have a few 
shorties at Nickie's. which was also regular for a Thursday. 
nigt. 
Pushing and pulling was necessary to get a drink, but I 
quiekly managed to find an opening at the bar and I ordered 
a quart of Sl·hlitz.The first quart was naturally folllowed by 
a SP('ond. then. a third; in other words, this was still a 
normal Thursday night. 
l\1~· life began to look brighter and brighter as the night 
\n•nt on. I made the usual social rounds, with an occasional 
"Ikilo!" to a few girls I know. Suddenly, the usual chaos of 
a Thursday night at Nickie's was disturbed when some 
sl·n•anwd. "There's a raid!" Everyone began to panic. 
I·:aeh individual was faced with the decision to either 
partake in what we assumed was a panty raid or to remain 
at Niekie's and finish drinking. I decided that a panty raid 
wmrld he rather fun. 
Immediately. I set down my quart and tried to find some 
friends who were going on the raid -in a hurry. As I sear-l'hPd. I ran into two old friends who had decided to remain at th(• har: Pat Kaiser and Ed Ellis figured that those who \n•re leaving needed someone to finish their beers and so they volunteered themselves for this difficult task. My faith in humanity was restored seeing the unselfish attitude of 
t h<'se nwn. 
Luckily enough. someone had pulled a van right up to the 
front door of Nickies and I was able to climb ri~ht in for the 
ride. II was too bad that the van was only big enough fllr 
tw<'nty people. because there were still many students in 
the A & P parking lot waiting for a ride to St. Mary's. 
The ride itself turned out to be fun, despite the strange s<'atbelts around our hands. Expectations were high rpgarding the success of the raid. Throughout the trip, we sang the Notre Dame Victory March but after a while, we r<'aliz<'d that something was amiss. What should have been a short trip to St. Mary's was turning into a long trip. We figur<'d out the actual reason why the van had been parked outsidP of Nickies. Evidently, the driver of the van was as drunk as us. li<' had tried to parallel park in front of Nickies hut had pulled up on the curb by mistake. 
Finally. our driver stopped the van and asked a polil'('man where we were. The policeman replied that we ,,.t•n• down by United Beverage. When I heard this my eyes lit up. "Just think 1 All the beer we can drink. Better than.a. panty raid. "llow<'ver . I also realized that United Beverage \Hluld not be op<'n until the morning. The officer perceived that wt• \n're in a dilemma and he said "If you guys want to !'rash at m~· place until United Beverage opens, you can. It's right next door." We were, of course, constrained to al'l'Ppt his offer. 
I found the staff at his place to be tolerably hospitable. Tlw man at the registration desk greeted us and the bellhop lwld our wallets and belts for us.They even served us break­fast at six o'clock in the morning. The only thing that pr<'\'(•nt('d it from being true Southern (South Bend> hospitality was the lack of mint julep. We spent the night in a room in the hasem<'nt. Some of the guys slept on the floor. whil(• I found an ('mpty shelf in one of the side rooms. The shdf was not r<'ally suited for a bed but I could not complain ht•<'atiS(' th<' people had been so nice to us. 
At II am they finally checked us out and we went over to t 'nih·d B<'\'<'rage wh<'re they had arranged for our room­ma I<'S to llH'<'t US. 
iim clarke 

As I ll'fl. I thanked <'very one for their generosity and I ;tskPd llwm if thPy would like to rent some of their storage spacl' to off-eampus stud<'nts. They regretfully declined the offl'r. 
In rl'ality. of course. my night in jail was a bummer. I must admit that the South Bend penal system does much to rl'form tlw hardened criminals like myself. They put all us undPraged drinkers in a cell with a drug addict. Next Thursday. when you'r<' drinking at Nick's, remember me. I'll lw sitting in m~· room thinking of you while I clean out m~· pip<' and other paraphernalia. 


.... 
Tuesday, April 3.f 1973 the observer 


Potok's lecture highlights Lit. Festival today 

by Marlent> Zloza St>nior Reporter 
''Rebellion and Authority: the. 
Jew and Modern Literature," is the title of novelist Chaim Potok's lecture this evening at 8:00 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. This single formal appearance of Dr. Potok. a best selling author, will­highlight today's Sophomore Lit­erary Festival events. 
Polak. since his arrival Monday, has visited with classes and condu­eted an autograph session at Pandora's bookstore yesterday afternoon. 
In his most recent novel. My Namt• is Ashrr Lt>v, Potok deals with the difficult growth of genius in an artisit. The book is art speaking about art and examines not only the inner struggles of an ­artist but also the outside in­fluences he is forced to revolt against. 
Potok's sensitivity to the human 
Club slates elections 
The Marketing Club will hold elections for new officers on April 4 <tml 5 in the lobby of the Hayes-Healey Business School. 
The HiO members of the club are encouraged to vote on A$ril 4 lwtwPPn !J:OO a.m. and 11 :oo a.m. and from 10:45 a.m. unti112:30 p.m. on April 5. 
Tlw three tickets of candidates seeking election are: 
Sl'crPtary TrPasurerPresident \'ice-PrPsident Ann Doherty Hay Sehnorr.Joan [)autremontlon Florentino 

KPn Walbeck Slwron Carey

Jerry Samaniego Sll'Vl' Hornig 
Tim Creighton Sharon Carey
John llagcty 1\<tthy Finke !\lolly Ope 
Jazz Festival 'Will be at ND April12-14 
The favorite jazz recordings of Massachusetts Institue of today's performing artists will be TPchnology, Memphis State, Tri-Pnshrincd for all time at the Un-ton College and others. The 
IVt:rsity ·of Notre Dame's Col-Saturday afternoon concert (1 :30 legiate Jazz Festival Collection p.m. April 14) will feature the of Anwrican Jazz Music. Notre Dame Jazz Band, Ohio1Un­
Sponsors of this year's festival iversity . Tenessee State, Texas ­from April 12 through 14 have Southern and others. announced plans to add the top five llt•adlining the Saturday evening recordings selected by each Of the ('Oncert at 7::l0 p.m. Will be the festival judges to the audio center l\lodem Jazz ·Quintet of In­in MPmorial Library. diana University and the Rat Pack 
.Judges who will select recor-of Indiana State University, along­dings for this year's fifteenth 11·ith the jazz bands of Texas festival include Dan Morgenstern, Southern University, Ohio State Alvin Batiste. Jimmy Owens, Gil llniversity. Malcolm 'X College, 1•:\'ans. Hubert Laws and Roy and llw winner of the high school, Haynes.•James Phillips, assistant eompetition hand director at Notre Dame and A festival "first" this year will facultv advisor for the festival, h1• the midnight jam session which said thP purpose of the collection is will follow the presentation of to ad\'ance familiarity with jazz awards to individual and group music among students and to JWrformt•rs. Sponsored by the further traditional educational National F.ndowment for the Arts, aspects of the annual event. · llw late-hour public session will ­
A national sorority. Alpha Kappa featun• music by aU of the festival Alpha. will co-sponsor the opening judges sitting in with individual concert in StPpan Center which .stars from the collegiate ranks. will include Cannonball Adderly, ' Tickets for all perfcrmances are (;ro\'er Washington. Jr., Charles presPnlly on sale at the Notre 
Irvin The Bill Nix Trio and a llanw Student Union office in La­sp(•cial judges' combo. Proceeds 'Fortune Cl'nter and at the branch from this 7::l0 p.m. event on April offit'PS of Anwrican National Bank 12 will go to charity. .in South Bend. Tickets. priced Appearing at 7:30p.m. on April from $2\o $4 will also be available 
1:1 will be jazz bands from Notre at llw doors to Stepan Center. For Danw. University of Michigan, furth1•r information. call 283-3797 
THE MAGIC FLUTE 

TilE NOTHE DAMI<:-SAINT MARY'S THEATRE l\lozart 's l'omic opera l'rodu1·t•d in association with the St. Mary's College Music 1kp\. April 6,7,12,13,14 at 8:30p.m. ()'Laughlin Auditorium. St. Mary's 
1Students -Faculty -Staff $2.00 Reservations: 284-4176 
A Jewish rabbi, Potok was born and raised in New York City, and-, his witty and sincere storie~ of the Jpwish experience can b 'app.. reciated by all readers. 
The other scheduled event today Elkin's aft€rnoon lec­

·""='....,,,,...,.,.,,,,ture on "Literature and the Heart 
Chaim Potok. noted Jewish author. highlights tonight's Sophomore Literary Festival <'l'ents with a lecture at 8:00PM in the Ubrary Auditorium. 
condition is also evident in his first 
two nevels, Tlw Chosen and The P­
romist>. Bot have been widely praised by critics for their 
universal and special appeal. • Attack." Elkin will speak at 3:30 

p.m. in. the Library Auditorium. 
Concerned with the relations between men and the world in which they live, Elkin's fiction is often extremely funny despite the depressive tone. 
Quick, jumpy prose charac-· terizes Elkin's writing, which inlcudes novels and short stories. His titles include Boswell: A 1\lodet·n Comt>dy, Cries and Kibitz­t•t·s. Kibitzers and Criers, A Bad 1\lan, and Tht> DickGibson Show. 
In addition to tday's lecture and his reading Monday night, Elkin has been visiting informally in ~·lasses .. He will remain on capus 
Senate probes IT&T 
(continued from page 3) 
purpose. Meyer· ahs testified he rememberts neither the offerof .oney nor how ti would be spendt. 
Subcommittee sources indicated 
they would recall Neal to the 
witness stand to question him 
about the apparent inconsistencies 
in the sworn testimoney about his 
role in the money offer. 
"I asked Mr. McCone to support 
the idea in Wahsington," Geneen 
testified. "Mr. McCone has 
already told you that he also 
mentioned to Mr. Helms <bormer 
CIA Director Richard Hlmsl, the 
proposal that had been made to Dr. 
Kissinger. It should be clear, 
however, that Mr. McCone did not 
offer to contribute anything to the 
CIA. 
GPneen contended that rhe ITT ­
September actions were entirely 
different from "anyting that mya 
hvve discussed by Mr. Broe. and 

An important announcement to every student in the health professions: 
NEW SCHOLARSHIPS ARE AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY. 
THEY COVER TUITION AND RELATED COSTS AND PROVIDE AN ANNUAL INCOME OF $5,300 AS WELL. 
If a steady salary of $400 a month and paid-up tuition will help you continue your professional training, the scholarships just made pos­sible by the Uniformed Services Health Professions Revitalization Act of 1972 deserve your close attention. Because if you are now in a medical, osteopathic, dental, veterinary, podiatry, or op­tometry school, or are work­ing toward a PhD in Clinical Psychology, you may qualify. 
We make it easy for ymt to complete your studies. You're commis:;ioned as an officer as soon as ynu enter the pro­gram, but i·~main in student status until graduation. And, during each year you will be 

myself in July." 
McCone had testified previously that ITT offered to put of $1 million to stop Allende's elections and that he informed Kissinger and Hlems of the offer after the Marxist candidate won a plurality in the Gneral Election of Sept. 4, 1970. -


MCone testified he met with Helsm to tell him the fund were available and withnKissinger to aks if the 
WDAT'S ThE United States had any plans to block Allende. MCone said he was 
RELiGiOUS

told of ITT's willingness to spend the money to block Allende at a b­oard meeting four or five days 

LiFE Lil{E?

after the election. But Beneen's statemtn today expresses a clear difference with 
AJk tlte Men Wllo Know

M Cone's testiomoney, tje diff­erence between blocking Allende 
Contact:

wand Moderating Allende's 
Fr. Andrew CHemi, 0. Praem.

nationalization plans through ITT 
Holy Cross Hall, 101 UNO

contributions to socially con­

tele: 283-6185

structive programs. 
until Thursday.  winner.  His works include Tur­ 
Poet  and  dramatist  John  As­ nabout and Otht>r Poems, Rivers :md Mountain, and two plays, The­ 
.berry  will  arrive  late  this  af­ B•·•·ot>s and Tht> Compromise.  

ternoon. Ashberry will give a poetry reading Wednesday at 3:3Q hberry, the fourth of the. Festival's 
p.m. in the Library Auditorium and join colleagues Jerome -Hothernberg and Kennetli Rex­exroth in a poetry symposium Thu­rsday at 1:00 p.m. He will also be discussing his work with classes through Thursday. 
Considered a foremost original artist;:, Ashberry compares hims­elf to an abstract painter, using complicated and interlocking imagery to maintain a high level of dramatic tension. The Harvard graduate describes his purpose as "trying to reproduce the same power that dreams have of per­
'suading you ... that thereis a hidden 
relation among disparate 
elements." 

poet. gives a poetry reading

A native of Rochester, New Wednesday at 3:30 in the LibraryYork, Ashberry is a Fulbright Sch­Auditorium as part of the olar and 'Guggenheim Fellowship 
Sophomore Literary Festival. 

on active duty (with extra pay) for 45 days. Naturally, if your academic schedule requires that you remain on campus, you stay on campus -and still receive your active duty pay. 
Actil•e duty Tequirements are fair. Basically, you serve one year as a commissioned officer for each year you've participated in the program, with a two year minimum. You may apply for a scholar­ship with either the Army, Navy qr Air Force, and know that upon entering active duty you'll bave rank and duties in keeping with your professional training. 
The life's work you've cho­sen foryourselfrequires long, 
hard, expensive training. Now we are in a position to give you some help. Mail in the coupon at your earliest convenience for moredetailed information. 


r----------------,
~!:'t I-"ore~ Stholarw.hip• \c. C N. -1l 
Unh·rrsal City. Tnaa itiUtl I drsirr information for thl' followinr 
J•ru~rram: 
Army n Navy nAir 1-"orC'r 
Mftliui;Ostf'OJ•athiC' 0 ~ntal 
Vrtrdn.r)· 0 Podiatry•
Othu ( Plra:~r sJ)f'('ify) _____ 
~ 

So<. 5«. =-------­
Addl"f'1i11--------­
Ci1Y---------­
Stal"-----Zit'---­

To rraduatt-an..,.,,..,.!>f,-,n-.lh.,-1 -,1..,.,y.-.-,,,-,:-=:o.,.:---,..""C'1 
Dat• uf b1rth ~-,------,--,---­
1Monlhl I lJa)·t I \"tar I 
I •l'udtatr)" nut a,·atlablor in Air ··unit Prucram 
L---------------~~ 

.,. 
10 the observer Tuesday, April 3, 1973 

Observer Insight 

Rising costs not affecting ND food services 
by Marlt-nt> Zloza Starr Rt-portt-r 

Hising food costs have not n•sulted in lower standards or ch·creasing services in the dining halls. asserts Mr. Edmund T. l'ricl'. Director of Food Services. 
"Prices have been fluctuating for quite sometime, and I have hl'l'n aware of this problem since last semester," slated Prioe in an interview Wednesday. "We could sl'l' 1he trend before it was a popular topic and so well-known." 
"I have kept the administration informt>d and drawn up graphs, collected articles and pamphlets and information for them," he added. 
Price also said the ad­ministration officers are kept alerted to all things that "influence our financial situation" and the fact that "we are going to exceed the amount budgeted for food this vear." · lkspite this situation, the University has deliberately decided not to change its standards <less meat choices, smaller por­t ions f in order to decrease costs. 
In discussing the higher prices of 

nwat and milk products Price controlled. Ground beef has gone "Students can help us out a lot by rnent ioned room and board fees. from ti4 cents per lb. last July to 94 not wasting food," Price asserted. "I have every reason to believe cl'nts this month. At the samp "Take what vou will eat and then 
board rates will go up next year, time. pork prices have increased l'ome back for seconds if you wish. basically because we can't operate from 115 cents to $1.40. This is very important to saving like this indefinitely," said the Another item that escapes monev." 
Director of Food Services. stabilization is milk. Controlled by lkgarding the recent tightening 
He explained that Food Services tlw state. milk prices have in­of meal number checking, Price is a self-sustaining enterprise that l'l'Pased in both October and denied any relation to food costs. is supposed to operate on what the February and each time the dif­"Tlw doser checking is to avoid students pay in board fees alone. fpn•ncl' ·has mf'ant thousands of unauthorized people getting 
"No subsidy should be involved in do.llars more in bills. nll'als." said Price, "and it would the dining hall operation, and in "We have been able to keep have happened even without the 
down some prices by holding price hikes. Our object is toreturn we don't have to create any 
funds for other University distributors to annual contracts provide service to paying students operations,"' Price said. that are negotiated in the sum­and checking is part of that." ml'r," Price stated. "This sum­In a letter to the stuqent body
This year, however, all expenses cannot be met with available funds mpr· when we begin to renew these this year. Price explained the 
agreements those prices will dining system, which provides forand "the University bas to help us pmbably be higher too," he con­a flat rate based on an expectedout." admitted Price. 
tinued. degree of absenteeism. "It isThe reasons for the increased Other items that are not under important, therefore, that no oneexpenses is the substantial rise in contract buying, such as fresh l'lse used this ticket in your ab­food item costs. Prices have been vegetables, are bought after food sence," the letter stated.
shifting and changing rapidly in Price mentioned that he recently the past months and figures are services specifies the product quality desired and receives price hdd a meeting with the checkersimpossible to pin down or predict, quotes. Price stressed that "we and after asking for suggestions,f'Xplained Price. 
have cut corners, but have not "we came up with the duel idea
The biggest rise has come in meat prices, which cannot be lowl'red the quality or quantity of and I think its a good gesture to 
the food." improve the system." 
Student gov't will continue operating 
Hoe also stated that all cases The term of office of Notre as a new election is held, as is our before the Campus Judicial Board 
remain in the office until such time 
would still be tried because,
Dames present~tudent government duty." offici~lly ended on Sunday, April No. election can be held because of hasil'ally, appointments to the ~st. Minister of Propaganda Jim our present constitutional crisis, .Judicial Board are made by the Hoe said student government said Hew. "The Judicial Coor­I>ean of Students rather than elec­
ted officials.

considert>d three alternatives on dinator cannot schedule elections Hoe announced the appointment that date: the present government because we haven't settled on a of Joe Husso as the head of Oligar­eould remain in the LaFortune new eonstitulion yet." 
maintain "peaceoffices and continue to function; s­Hoe did note that ihe Student ('hy Security to with honor within student govern­someone else could take over the Union activities would still be nwnt."
work: or student government eontinued. "The reason for this," Wlwn student government vice-­
could close down operatrons. said Roe, "is that Student Union i\l'cording to Roe there is no positions aren't totally political pr·psident Dennis Etienne was advantage to the student body if appointments and this makes their l'Dntacted for a statement all he 
would say was: "Student
operations were to cease. Roe also transition easier." Roe felt that ,<;ovemmerit is not in a state ofpointed out that no one else has lwcause of this, An Tostal and chaos and it's day to aayoperationsbeen elected to take over the jobs. otherSU activitiesshould proceed are still running smoothly." 
"Therefore," said Roe, "we will smoothly. 
• 




Social Commission Wants YOUI 
Applications now being accepted for: 
Assistant Commissioners 
.. 
Business Managers Ticket Sales Promotions Homecoming Chairman Special Proiects 

Apply at the Student Union Offices April 3 thru April 5 1-Spm 


Tuesday, April 3, 1973 
the observer 1 1 



Winds & water batter Lake Michigan shores 
hv Stt>vt' Magdzinski 
· St;1H Ht>porter 
Students who plan to visit the beaches of southwestern Michigan in the eoming weeks have an unpleasant surprise awaiting tlwm. Hl'cord levels of water in Lake Michigan. combined with ~trong winds and waves have 

SMC seeks alumnae for administrative jobs 
by Kathy llessert Staff Reporter 
St. Mary's is asking for Alumnae help to fill positions of Executive Director of the Alumnae Association, Director of Con­tinuing Education and Summer Studies, and Director of Publications. 
With Miss Helen Carroll plan­ning to retire early this summer, SMC needs a director for the Alumnae Association. Because of Carroll's vast reservoir of com­munity knowledge, she will be. retained as a consultant by the college. No one has applied for the position to date but according to President Henry, many applicants are expected. The new director's main function will be to bridge the gap between the older and younger 
the more recent graduates. 
Henry feels that St. Mary's has an obligation as a Catholic Woman's college, to help the :100.000 women that are returning t6 college this year. The new position of Dean of Continuing Education and Summer Studies is being initiated to devote some of the college's energies to this "great new clientele." 
"The average woman at the age of :~5 has all of her children in school and still has another 20 vears of productivity. These \vomt•n must be equipped for themselves and society. With Pducation playing a major role, St. 
Marv's  must  do  its  share,"  ac­ 
cord.ing to Henry.  
One  hundred  and  twenty  ap­ 

plicants have already applied for the position. 
"SMC's summer school program will start modestly. It is possible lor this thing to become a financial mantrap." Henry noted. "We will see what the market is and decide from there." 
caused massive erosion and destr­uction along the southern shore of 
the lake. 
J<:rosion along Michigan and Indiana shorelines has destroyed houses and roads in the past several vears, but reached disaster proportions the weekend or !\larch 16 and 17, when 60 mph winds and 10 to 12 foot waves hatterl'd the shoreline. Especially hard hit that weekend was Beverly Shorl's. Indiana, just west of Mi­chigan City. where several houses and a portion of Lakefront Drive \H're literally washed away by the lake. High waves caused the (;alien Hiver to back up for several miles near New Buffalo, Michigan. 
Part of the city was flooded and the harbor there was totally un­derwater. 
Beaches in Berrien County, Michigan are no longer what they have been in the last several years. 
In some places there is no beach at all. Other spots are nearly inac­cesible, because of high cliffs formed by erosion. Many beach 
Both conventional courses and those aimed at the "mature" woman will be offered. There will also be a few experimental programs. One art program is proposed, and others are being formalized. 
"There IS a vacuum gap in eommunication with students, alumnae, and friends of St. Mary's. The Obst>rver is not peculiarly SMC," commented Henry. 
The duties of the position will be to uniformize all publications including "St. Mary's College stairs lead to a twenty foot drop off or into several feet of water. 

Warren Dunes State Park at Bri­
dgman may have to move a $26,000 
conct•ssion stand now in danger of 
being damaged or dE!stroyed by 
water. Only two years ago the 
stand was a long distance from the 
shoreline. 
. lt seems there is no way of stopping the forces of Lake 1\1 ichigan. Lakefront homeowners have tried everything from dumping dozens ofold cars down 
eroding cliffs to building seawalls made of every imaginable sub­stance. Rut all efforts have Pventuallv failed and sooner or later have been destroyed. 
Gov. William Milliken of Mich ­
igan and Gov. Otis Bowen of In­
diana recently asked for federal 
aid to the troubled areas. The 
Army Corps of Engineers may 
eventually begin constructing 
expensive seawalls. But much of 
the shoreline will be destroyed by 
the time they begin. 

Two alternatives are open. The a large summer program with 
"In the past the college did have Director of Public Information, assisted by an outside consultant,
some students working on 
may add to her former dutiesPh.D.'s" said Henry. 
those of Director of Publications:To service the growing volume of or the new position may remainprinted communications at SMC, separate.
the position of Director of ''We visualize the Dean ofPublications, is being established. 
Continuing Education ·and Sum­Heport", ''Community Newslet­
mer Studies, Director of theter", ''Courier", and extensive 
Alumnae Association, and theliterature from the Admissions Director of Publications as havingOffice. Mrs. Kate Dooley, present three different functions, but I am a great believer of fitting the job to the skills rather than the per-son to the limitations of the job," said Henry. "It depends on the quality of the applicants and their ex­perience. With the right con­stellation of skills we might combine Director of the Alumnae 
Association  with  Dean  of  Con­ 
tinuing EduStudies."  cation  and  Su mmer  

publisher of the "Courier", will also retire this summer. Like Carroll, Dooley will remain as consultant to the college. 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
PLACEMENT BUREAU NOTICES 
.Sox :Trip payment and reser­
Main Building 
vations: 12:00 -5:00, Monday. Friday, ticket office. 2nd floor LaFortune. 
INTERVIEWS FOR WEEK OF APRIL 9 
PRE-LAW SOCIETY . Five prominent local attorneys will discuss their practices and an. swer questions about the legal profession at 7:30pm on Thursday 
Interviews are for seniors and graduate students. Sign-up 
schedules are in Room 207, Main Building. Interview times 
night, April 5, 1973, at the Library
must be selected and signed for in person. Hou~s are 8:00 
Auditorium. Refreshments will 
a.m. to 5:00p.m. each day, except Friday. The Placement 
be served in the Library Lounge 
following the meeting.
Manual gives additional information regarding interviews 
and procedures. 

IF YOU DON'T LIKE WRBR'S 
APRIL 10 
APRIL 13 

NEW TOP 40 FORMAT AND WOULD LIKE THEM TO RESUME A PROGRESSIVE 
The Montgomery County, Ohio-Adult Probation 
Department. 

ROCK FORMA~ SEND LE~
B. in Sociology. Anthropology, Psychology. 
TERS OR PETITIONS TO THE
Northwestern Mutual Life. 
STATION MANAGER AND 
PROGRAM DIRECTOR OR 
CALL THEM AT 234-1111 
DURING BUSINESS HOURS. 
BA, MA, BBA. 

Midland Public Schools. Bachelor and Masters. All majora. 
For Senior Class officers Pres. Bill Hampton 
v. P. Dick Stypula 5PC. Bob Geist 
16 only $68.30 Badin Travel Aqency, signup deadIine Thurs.
White Sox Opening Day Trip 
Apr. 12. Information 8282, 7080. 
p,,ndora's Books New & Used 11ooks, boughI & sold across from Rocco's.

Tuesday, April 10 
FOR SALE 

Fnr S,11e Acouslic 134 amp. C.1~ino concert P.A. system . Best
$ J0 Payment must be made this week 
,,ffer' ollter 7 234-4547. 67 J.1quar XK E roadster, ex­
Monday -friday J2-5 
lrPnwly low milage, llH'Cholnic,llly perfect, call 234­, 6~55. 
1971 350 Hondil SL 5600 miles,
Ticket Office -2nd floor La Fortune 
<"ll~lom painI, Jilek 8550. I "r 5.11('. p.lnasonic AM FM
A few reservations still being a taken. 
( tl~'f'ftC' O...ff'rf'o 2 c1llicd '•P<'ol ko•rs. S150. £\iII 3336. 
f "r S.lll' Prnq ponq l,lble Good <lliHfilion. Pl!',lSI' call 233 3893.
For more information call: 
1971 /\II,, Ronwo Spider. Good • ••ll<filion C.1ll 132 8398 after 5
Leo Breen··418 Morrissey 3651 
1'111 
Tony Lins-·3648 

1 1971 fh>llcl,l CB ~50, 1800 miles, ,.,( l'll,•nt <ondifion. R1ck 1437. 
Employer information. Alternatives. Teaching. Summer. 
Class of '74. 
Action/Peace Corps/Vista. Federal Service. 
GOOD TICKETS AVAILABLE FOR THIS SATURDAY'S WISH­
Room 222, Administration Bldg. 
fiONE ASH -VINEGAR JOB CONCERT AT MORRIS CIVIC FOR TICKETS OF INFO CALL
3/28/73 

8253. 
Cillifornia Club flight to LA May 
~ ----------------------------­
WANTED 
We need summer housing for 4. Will sublet. Call 7812. 
OBSERVER NEEDS ASS'T AD. MANAGER. EXCELLENT POSITION FOR SPOUSE OF GRAD OR UNDER GRAD STUDENT. MUST BE ABLE TO WORK 10-S MON-FRI. TYPING REQUIRED. GOOD PAY. CALL 7471 OR VISIT OBSERVER OFFICE. 
2ND Juniors need 3 or 4 housema­tes for large, furnished off. campus house. For info call: 
John or Tom 287 ·6010. 
Roommate Wanted: for off· campus. Must have a good head. Call Bernie 1246. 
Typist needed at the Observer. $1.25 per hour. Call 7471. 
Need ride to Ohio Turnpike, Exit 6, Friday, April 6. Share ex­penses. Call Jeanne 6991. 
Leaving for summer? Want to ,;ub let or have home occupied. M,lrried couple need a roof til mid 
July John 1035, Pam 5405. 
N!'ed ride lo Pittsburgh for two Friday, 4 6. Please call Cathy 
~682. 
Housemiltes  wanted  for  the  
'-umm!'r  House  is  walking  
diStilnce from campus.  Call 233  

9616, ,1sk for Don or Jack. 
Want!'d: Ride from Pittsburgh to N D on F r i . 8906. 
Girl~ d!'sperately need ride to Fl. L.luderd,lle April 13th, call ~0~7 or ~375. 
Riders W.1nted: leavinq for '-unsatiorl<ll Florida April 13111. Ro•turn 23rd. Roundtrip S35. C.lll 183 6339 h!'tWP!'n 3 8 pm. 
FOR RENT 
W.1n1 privilcy? Rooms s~o. 233 1379. 
KrtcfH'I1('tt!' ,1pt. for one. utiliti('s tur"i'IH•d. Close to campus 271 
~1H. 
LOST AND FOUND 
I ••told M,lif Kl'y (203) & room "''\ (7011 in rm 101 Old Business l\l<fq_ Thursd,ly aft('rnoonc,lll >'!l89. 

• 
-
.. 
I 

Tuesday, Apri I 3, 1973
the observer

12 
Irish open today against Hillsdale 
. spring tnp in Tulsa, and allowed dependable ~t·nior catcher !rom 
h.\' Stan l'rankar time for the many injured Irish to Dolton, Ill. will return to his The season starts today! return to full playing strength. Top backstop duties this afternoon, No, the Players' Association man on the casualty list was calling the pitches for veteran 
isn't pulling another fast one on leading hitter Dick Nussbaum who mound men Rick Eich (0-2l and tlw owners. It's Notre Dame that missed seven games due to a Mike Riddell <l-ll. gt'ls the jump on the majors as the severe foot bruise suffered in "We're ready for Hillsdale," Irish opt•n their 1973 regular batting practice-; today, the junior says H.oe~er. _"We'ye g~tten a lot st'<lson in a Cartier Field eenter fielder will be back in the of praclice lime m smce our doubleheader with Hillsdale leadoff spot with his .545 per-return. and we've worked on <'ollt>gl', the first of ten twin bills for eentage. correcting mistakes that hurt us in coach .Jakl' Kline's squad within Captain Bob Roemer has also Tulsa. If we can take two <vs. ttw rwxt three weeks. rl'bounded from a broken finger Hillsdale l and then make a good 
(\ two-week layoff has rescued suffered in the next-to-last day of showing at Wisconsin this 
N.D. from the doldrums of a 1-8 the Hurricane Review. Thr weekend,we'llbeonthewaytotheNCAA." 
Senior Ed Lange (.316) has recovered from a severe ham­




Netters split, look to 
string pull to be ready for action in r·ight field, and the entire infield <Mark Schmitz at first, Pete Sch­midt at second, Jim Smith at 
• Western Michigan 
shortstop, and Tom Hansen at third l is healthy, although Hansen by John Fineran and he is really coming along," may move to left with junior Pat flallon notes. Coleman a possible starter at the H'h('nfhe Irish open their 197.1 home season against Hillsdale College. 
The rains fell Sunday in.r The Western Michigan contest, hot corner. . games this season (both the Big vl'ar. Eich and Riddell took turns Milwaukee, but fortunately for the because of the Irish 'inexperience Notre Dame saw the designated Tl•n and the Mid-American Con­i1t four-hitting the Chargers in a :'l<otrP Dame tennis team, their this year, should be a different one pin~h hitt~r rule on occa~ion ferences are also advocates). pair of 4-0 whiteashes at Hillsdale. match with Marquette was clin­than last year's when Notre Dame durmg their_ southern excursiOn, Hillsdale has yet to register a Game time today is 1 pm at the dwd. The Irish recorded their first won 9-0. The Broncos return two a~d coa~h Klme has stated_ that the baseball victory over Kline's corps Cartier diamond, behind the victory of the season with the 6-o lettermen from last season's Irrsh Will use the DPH m home in an even dozen meetings. Last AProspace Building.< 1 he doubiPs were cancelled) 
squad. Seniors John Lamerato and vietory over the Warriors. 
Roger Thurman both own Mid­The win followed Saturday's 7-2 American Conference titles. The 
Buggers surprise Buckeyes 
loss at Wisconsin and this left the Irish will be seeking momentum was naml'd the games MVP, in­Irish with a 1-4 slate going into from this match for a busy The Notre Dame rugby team pulll'd ahead 4-3 on a try by John sured thl' Irish victory. The Irish
Wt>dnesday's match at Western schedule next week which has racked up its fifth and biggest win (;reving. Ed O'Connell added two brought home the Silver Cup which 
season a

Michigan. them taking the courts six times in of this young with 10-6 points on a conversion to give the is awarded annually to the winner
The Wisconsin match was a lot six days. victory over Ohio State last Irish a 6-3 lead. 
of the Irish-Buckeye series.

closer than the score indicates. Saturday in Columbus. 
Notre Dame kept the momentum
Michigan, the perennial Big Ten The Notre Dame "B" team also
"We were in every match, but The Buckeyes, who were Big Ten and scored shortly on a try by Tom notched a big win, with a come
ehamps and a national power, will
bpcause of the lack of experience runner-ups, are a team consisting Masenea. O'Connell's conversion behind victory over the
help open the 1973 home schedule from 
among our players, we lost several largely of graduate students and attempt hit the upright and the
at Courtney Tennis Center next Bucks. The Irish spotted the Bucks 
close ones," says Notre Dame the toughest competition that the Irish were settled with a com­
Monday afternoon at 3:00 p.m. a !1-0 lead and it looked as if the
coach Tom Fallon. h·ish have met this year. The Irish fortable 10-3 lead.
The Irish lost to the Wolverines Bucks would have little trouble
One bright spot in the Irish proved equal to the task despite·
last year, 8-1. The second half was a defensive \\'ith the Irish. 
wPekend split was the play of the giving away as much as 30 pounds battle that saw the Bucks score llowever. a second half try bynumber-one singles and doubles Coach Brian Eisner returns six per man. 
only :3 points on a second penalty Tt•rT~· McCarthy and a conversionplayer, Chris Kane. The of his top seven players, and ac­
As usual, Notre Dame relied on kick. by .John Mcintyre narrowed thesophomore from Rancho Santa Fe, cording to reports, has recruited 
its speed, quickness and hitting to gap to !1-6. In the last few minutes
Cal. had the uneviable task· of the best freshman group in The size advantage belonging to 
nm its season record to 5-l. As the of play Sean McDonald scored a 
rPplacing last year's captain and Michigan history. Captain Tim Ohio State bega·n to tell late in the
Ohio State coach mentioned after try to pull the Irish ahead 10-9. 
star. Buster Brown. But with his Ott. seniors Dick Ravreby and .game as the Buckeyes constantly 
the game, "We didn't lose today, l\1l'Tvrne 's conversion added two 
performance over the weekend Mfke Ware, and junior Kevin threatened to score. The Irish
Notre Dame outplayed us and beat more insurance points to give
<single wins at Wisconsin and 3enich should give the Irish all the llS." defense, however, refused to yield Notre Dame a 12-9 win. 
Marquette and along with captain competition they can handle. In and held on to the 10-6 lead for the The only disappointment of the 
-
Hob Schefter, a doubles win in fact, the starting lineup was so Ohio State took an early lead on a victory. 
\I'Pekend was tne USU victory over Madison), he appears to be filling stro11.g last year that Ware, a Big penalty kick resulting from a The tough play of the Notre llw Notre Dame "C" team. The 
the spot nicely. Ten · titlist his· sophomore year, Notre Dame error. The Buckeyes Dame serum and the clutch Irish played hard but were hurt by 
·'Chris played well last weekend could not crack the linup allseason. maintained a lead until the Irish kicking of Jeff Warnimont, who inexperience and a result
as dropped a 14-6 decision to the Bucks. 
Terry Smith scored a try for the
Lacrosse team takes weekend pair 
Irish and Bill Seetch added a h~· 1\ndrf'w Scantlebury eon version. 
eould handle, succumbing only in biggest lead of the day on an with 22 saves including seven in 
The ruggers return home thisThe Notre Dame Lacrosse Club the fifth overtime period 5-4. Notre unassisted effort. Meanwhile at the overtime. 
\l'l'ekend with a night game against
opened its home season this Dame had tuned up for the number other end of the field, Notre Dame Sunday brought the University of weekend on a winning note, two ranked Falcons with a mid­Illinois and the Irish stickmen the University of Maryland. The 
goalie Paul Simmons continually
stopping highly ranked Bowling week 11-3 victory over Lake Forest decided they had had enough ganw is scheduled for 7:30 
Green on Saturday and then and for a while it looked as though frustrated the scoring efforts of the dramatics from the day before. A Saturday night under the lights at r·omping over the University of the Irish were going to dispose of Falcons. Defensemen Ernie Cartier Field. Admission the
five goal first period outburst to 
tllinois on Sunday. The victories Bowling Green in a similar BPrgkessel, George Carberry, and game is free.
ended any hope of a!lllllinois upset. 
.Jt'ff Lyden gave Simmons plenty of 
gave the Irish stickmen a 4-Q fashion. Attackman Joe Anderson Hich Mullin. B. J. Bingle, Rich
rl"cord with the heavy part of their gave the ·Irish a quick 1-0 lead help as they turned in their finest Semerad wins 
1\larrinangelli, Bingle again, and
performance of the year.

schPdule coming up. when he scored with an assist from .Jim Courtney provided the first 
in Chicago 

There was nothing "light" about Paul Heagan. 
While the first half belonged to quarter fireworks.
Bowling Green however as the In the second quarter attackman 
Notre Dame, the second half was Larry Semerad took his second
Fakons gave the Irish all they Bill Dacey gave the Irish the The second quarter was almost a
all Bowling Green. Heavy riding straight Chicago Park District
earbon copy of the first as Mullin,
hy the Falcons resulted in an early boxing championship last Thu­
l\1arrinangelli. and Bingle scored
third period goal by Willie rsday as he was awarded a
again along with Dave Jurusik and
I<:ldridge. Several minutes later unanimous decision over Mike M­
a Decker .Johnny Corcoran. Two goals by
Simmons lost Larry assetti of Rockford, Illinois.
Bill Dacey and tallies by Rico

Captain's Corner 

drive in a screen of players and the For the Flanner Hall senior from 
Locker· and Bob Thibodeau ended
gaml' was tied, In the fourth I~altimore, Maryland, this year's
the Irish barrage. Simmons and
:as:"""',r:: 222,,,,,.,2 2 •• , 55" 55 ...::::;;::::::::::::::::Opening day p<'riod, Carl Zabek gave Bowling junior Joe Lepley split the ll_tl~ . was in the 126-pound open
(;reen their first lead of the af­drvrs10n. Last year he was the
goaltending chores combining for
At a nni'versi'ty where the athletic tradition is as proud as Notre tl"rnoon at the 14:00 minute mark. 118-pound wiriner in novice class. 
t5 saves.

Dome's rs <i little unsettling to be a member of a team whose present rec­Spmerad's victory also avenged a
Notre Dame appeared to be on
ord stands at 2-11. This is natural since there are few instances of athletic A tired by happy Paul Simmons defeat in February at the hands of 
its way to first defeat as the 
t·ontt•sts whereNotre Dame's contingent does not live up to this long st­said after the game. "Our defense l\1assetti in the finals of the
fo'alcons continually thwarted the 
<~nding reputation. Despite our record, the baseball team has and will has really put it together this year. Chicago Golden Gloves tour­
Irish passing game. But with 30 
n•present Notre Dame well and I am confident that we will begin to prove second to play. a Bowling Green Ohio State comes to South .•Bend nament. this. with the help and support of the fans. gave Irish one this Saturday and this is a realle!lt The victory caps a brilliant
penalty the last 
The Notre Dame sports fan expects excl'llence from the team he t·hance and attackman B. J. Bingle for us. I hope a lot of students turn l'ollegiate boxing career for s­supports and can become discouraged if his support'is not rewarded. oul for the game because this could l'merad. In addition to winning
made the most of it. Taking the 
llnwt•\·er. the Notre Dame fan is also known for his loyalty ·and hall behind the Falcon net the he the best game of the year." l'hampionships in the prestigious. dt•dication even when his team is temporarily experiencing less than senior from Toledo, Ohio made Ohio State is led by All-American Bengal Routs in 1972 and 1973, Se­lavorable results. The fans' support can be the difference in helping a three marvelous moves and beat Skip van Burgondien the man who nwrad was also the 1972 Chicago . h•am turn their season around. Both the hockey and basketball teams the Falcon netminder with only 17 burned the Irish net six times in South Side Golden Gloves titlist, t­wt•r£' spen to perform better as each game went by, reaching greatness at S<'Conds showing on the clock. last year's Ohio State triumph. The hP 1972 C.~.O. champ in Chicago, tlw Pnd of the season with post season performances. I'm certain that the ( lhio State Star has been moved and the wmner of two crowns in
Chester Gawalurk gave B. G. a 4­
fans can ht• given a great deal of credit for these achievments. I am from attack to middie this season the Chicago Park District finals.
:1 advantage in the first overtime
hoping this will bt· the case with the baseball team as it has been before. prompting Notre Dame's fine Ill' was also runner-up for the past
period. but Irish captain Dave
The baseball team ean experience a very successful season. We have a micHielder Jim Brown to com-two years in the Chicago Golden
.lurusik quickly tied the contest
much hetter team than our present record indicates since this record is­nwnt. "van Rurgondien is great Gloves tournament and the 1973
Parlv in the second overtime. The 
largPly due to had luck. unfortunate injuries, and a difficult schedule. hut he's not going to score six goals <.'hieago C.Y.O. championships.
mar~Ithon continued until Dacey SemPrad was awarded
'lur :14 gaml' "-"Jular season schedule is just beginning and we have a on our midfield." also the 
seored his second goal of the game
possible NCAA tournament bid to look forward to after its completion. Sportsmanshipl\ward in this year's
latl• in the fifth overtime period. Game time is slated at 2:00p.m. ('hteago Park Districit comp­llnwevl'r. we do need the students' support. 
Simmons finished the afternoon behind Stepan Center. t'IJtron. 

.la!H• Kline begins his 40th season as head baseball coach this afternoon 









