On The Inside 
Fieldhouse Alive 
... page 2 
A's beat the Mets 
... page 9, 



Volume VIII, No. 31 serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Wednesday, October 17, 1973 
Macheca clarifies drug policy 
by Jerry Lutkus t.:ditor-in-Chief. 
Dean of Students John Macheca refused to confirm yesterday The Observer report of three drug raids in campus residence halls saying that "the individual student's right to personal reputation outweighs the student body's right to know the particulars of disciplinary proceedings." 
While stating the policy of his office not to reveal information on cases under disciplinary action, Macheca further claimed that it is "unfortunate that hearsay reports on disciplinary matters most often contain serious inaccuracies." 
"There is no question," he said in explaining the university's position of drugs, "that pushers are not going to be tolerated in this community. This does not exclude the providers or the dealers." 
In a statement that he released to the campus media, Macheca established two guidelines that the university will follow in drug investigations: 
1 ( The privacy of a student's campus residence will only be compromised if there is good reason to believe that there is a violation of university rules or regulations taking place within that room. 
2) Provided there is sufficient advance knowledge of a violation, the Dean of Students will provide the oc­cupant<s) of a room with a written explanation of the reason for the official inquiry as well as any ap­propriate verbal elaboration. Such inquiries will normally be the responsibility of Student Affairs personnel, including the staff of the particular hall." 
Macheca's guidelines were issued in conjunction with an SLC recommendation that the Student Affairs Office "publicize the procedures used in enforcing regulations and clarify the rights of the students involved." Also in line with those recommendations, Macheca did not give any details of individual cases. 
"A general awareness of what's going on with a problem like drugs is good," Macheca said. "It's the awareness constructive for the community." He added that the awareness established through his guidelines would hopefully "decrease the reported paranoia." 
'l'he Dean of Students emphasized his belief that drugs are a "Mutual problem which needs a mutual effort to rid the campus of them." He continued that students who get involved in drug problems can expect 


"There is no question that pushers are not going to 
be tolerated in this commninity," said Machecha 

the worse if it comes to the attention of the university. 
When questioned about the pushers moving off campus, Macheca said that if they attempt to exploit th_e campus student population from off campus, "they w1ll be dealt with." 
"If I am aware of drug dealing that I am not in a position to affect, I will refer it to anyone who can," he said. 
The Dean of Students also clarified the university rules about drugs that have been passed by the Student Life Council. There are three classifications of drug regulations, he explained. 1) Providing for others ia serious violation. 2) Possession or use of any narcotic or hallucinogenic is a serious violatio and 3) The university does not consider the use of marijuana acceptable. 
Macheca warned students not to bring quantities of drugs with them following the semester break. He claimed that all students have been given "fair war­ning" about the consequences of drugs violations. 
The complete statement of Macheca to the campusmedia follows: 

11111111111111111m11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Student Affairs has begun to implement a new program emphasizing the educational role of our office in the lives of students beyond the classroom. At the heart of this program is our level of awareness of student life. However, we will never use improper means to increase that degree of knowledge. On the other hand, we do welcome and encourage the input of students to sensitiize us to the realities of student life here at Notre Dame. 
Student Affairs has worked over the summer and since the beginning of the year to restate the rules and values of this community as the initial step in the process of identifying them as part of our lives here. As the Dean of Students, the latter becomes one of my larger areas of responsibility, but it is not exclusive to me. On the contrary, it is shared by everyone on the Student Affairs staff, to say nothing of the community in general. 
The individual student's right to personal reputation outweighs the student body's right to know the par­ticulars of disciplinary proceedings. 
The privacy of a student's campus residence will only be compromised if and when there is good reason to believe that there is a violation of University rules or regulations taking place within that room. 
. Proyided there is sufficient advance knowledge of a vwlabon, the Dean of Students will provide the oc­cupant(s) of a room with a written explanation of the reaso~ for the official inquiry as well as any ap­propnate verbal elaboration. Such inquiries will normally be the responsibility of Student Affairs personnel, including the staff of the particular hall. 

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
Representatives of St. Edward's Hall confirmed yesterday that one resident of the hall has been ex­pelled over the drug situation as reported in Tuesday's Observer H~wever, they denied that any raid had taken place m the hall. The presentatives did not elaborate on how the individuals were apprehended. 
Nixon passed over 



Kissinger, Tho win 1973 Nobel Peace Prize 
OSLO <UPI>-Henry Kissinger and North Vietnamese chief negotiator Le Due Tho today worn the 1973 Nobel Peace Prize, the Nobel Peace Committee announced. 
Kissinger, the new U.S. Secretary of State, and Le Due Tho negotiated the Vietnam cease-fire during a series of meetings in Paris last year. 
Politicians and Nobel Prize experts said the announcement was the greatest surprise in the history of the award. 
Kissinger and Tho were selected from a list of 40 nominees which included President Nixon, President Tito of Yugoslavia and Brazilian bishop Dom Helder Camara. 
The two winners will share a record of $130,000 cash prize. 
First since 1971 
It was the first Nobel Peace Prize to be awarded since 1971. The Nobel Prize Committee last year named no winner because it said it could not find a suitable candidate. The last previous winner was West German Chancellor Willy Brandt in 1971. 
The Nobel committee siad Kissinger and Tho were nominated by Jon Sannes, professor of history at Oslo University and directory of the Norwegian Foreign Policy Institute. 
Three-year effort 

In explaining the award the committee said, "For more than three years they have used all their strength and good will to achieve a negotiated solution, a peaceful solution of the Vietnam War. 
"Thereby, they have performed a feat which is in the best ac­cordance with Alfred Nobel's thoughts, that conflicts should be tried to be solved through negotiations and not through was." 
Most gruesome war 

The Vietnam War was aescribed as the most gruesome and long conflict the world has experienced after the second World War," the committee added. "It was a gruesome war that did not only force upon the Vietnam civilian population enormous sufferings but that also poisoned the at­mosphere in and between other countries in the whole world." 
In a briefer formal an­nouncement the committee said:''The war in Vietnam was the most gruesome and longest military conflict since the second World War was brought to an end with a cease-fire. The Norwegian Nobel Prize Committee has given the Peace Prize of 1973 to the two negotiators who with a joint achievement brought about the cease-fire January 23 this year. Dr. Henry Kissinger, U.S.A., and Le Due Tho of teh Democratic Republic of Vietnam." 
At the time of the Nobel an­nouncement, Kissinger was in Washington at the White House, meeting with other security ad­visers, presumably on the Middle East conflict. 
Before the award was an­nounced, Nobel Institute Director August Schou named two nominees who would not be considered­Soviet physicst Andri Sakharov, a leading Russian dissident, and the late President Salvador Allende of Chile, overthrown recently in a military coup. 
hpc allots funds 
. .. page 3 
homecoming coming ...page 9 next observer will be ··wednesday, october 24 
~ -~---­
J. the observer Wednesday, October 17, 1973 
an campus taday
warld briefs 
Washington--Vice-President-nominee Gerald R. Ford said Tuesday an allegation in a book about Washington politics that he was the patient of a psychotherapist for a year is "categorical!Y inaccurate." 
Ford responded to reporters questions about a reference in the book "Washington Pay-Off" by Robert N. Winter-Berger that he was a paitent of Dr. Arnold Hutschnecker of New York who columnist Drew Pearson said at one time also treated Richard M. Nixon. Winter­Berger was a self-described Washington lobbyist who claimed in­timate friendship with leading politicians. 
Washington-u.s. District Judge John J. Sirica, saying five Watergate defendants "knowingly, intentionally and voluntarily" pleaded guilty in January, refused Tuesday to release them on bail. 
Sirica, however, did set hearing for Oct. 29 and Nov. 5 on motions by the five to change their pleas to innocent. A defense lawyer indicated he may subpoena former White House aides to testify. 
Yonkers, N.Y.-Drummer Gene Krupa, whose flying sticks sym­bolized the swing era, died Tuesday after a lengthy illness.. He was 64. 
The cause of death was not immediately announced. Krupa had suffered for years from benign leukemia, and he entered a Yonkers hospital last week for treatment of a heart problem connected with the iliSPliSe. 
12: 15 p.m.--seminar, "review of the international congress of microbiology," dr. morris wagner, room 102, lobund lab. 
1:15 p.m., 2:20 p.m.--film, "south africa; one nation, two nationalisms­-the boer white supremists and their black african subjects on a collision course," sponsored by black studies program, basement of the cce. 
2-5 p.m., 7-9 p.m.--art exhibit, sculpture by abner hershberger and jack smith, mixed media assemblages by ann raymo, moreau gallery, smc. 
3:00 p.m.--film, civilization movie series, to complement the western 
civ. course, engineering auditorium, free · 
3:30 p.m.--lecture, "future power plant sites; energy needs and en­vironmental goals," a. david rossin, room 303, engineeringbuilding. 
5-6 p.m.--ticket sales, cac dance and drama series tickets on sale in the cafeterias. 
6:30 p.m.--sailing club meeting, rm. 204, engineering building. 
8:00 p.m.--lecture, "shame and shamelessness in the age of por­nography," erich heller, northwestern univ., little theater, moreau hall, smc. 

"Smile, God Loves You"



Drapenamed News Editor 
DERMSHEM © 
Tom Drape, a junior American junior Economics major, will board with Drape and McCarry. Studies major, has been named retain a position on the Observ,er She has accepted an appointment news editor of The Observer, Jerry Editorial Board as an associate as the third Observer associate 


MOTORS 
Lutkus, editor-in-chief announced editor. editor. Tuesday. Drape is presently Ann McCarry, another junil()r 

"Tell your friend to buy his car here
serving in the post of wire editor American Studies major, witll Bill Brink, a sophomore in Arts for the newspaper and in the past replace Drape as the wire editor. and Letters, has assumed Zloza has served as a day editor and a McCarry spent last year in the position as Sunday night editor. 

and if he does, we 'II give 
reporter. Rome program and has recently Dan Sanchez, a freshman from San Drape, a native of Kansas City, returned to the newspaper serving Antonio, Texas, will serve as 
you $3511 
replaces Anthony Abowd of as an assistant night editor. Brink's assistant night editor. Farmington, Mich., who held the Marlene Zloza, a junior Sophomore Rick Blower and 

*************************** 
position of Observer news editor American Studies major, will also freshman Ann Moriarty have been 

*Economy 7~ _TOYOTA * 
since October, 1972. Abowd, a assume a post on the editorial named assistant night editors to 

: Special: S1hca SF 4 sp. :
Wednesday night editor AI 

* Low Miles Low Price * 
D'Antonio.

Mid-term vacation 

'*************************** 
Remaining on the editorial board are Lutkus, executive editors Dan 

FINANCING AVAILABLE Barrett and Art Ferranti; 
"If we don't have it, we'll get It"


changes schedules 

© OPEN
managing editor Joe Abell; Butch 

Mon., Tues., Thurs., 9-8; Wed., Fri., Sat., 9-6 
©
by John McEachin both Dining Halls. The public Ward, editorial editor; Vic Dorr, 
Staff Reporter cafeteria will be open as usual sports editor; Maria Gallagher, 

..t 1"" CALL 233-5145 . I t 
from 7:45a.m. to 7 p.m. SMC editor; Kathy Schwille, 

_ 832 South Bend All. i Notre D.l111e Awe. -.....__/ Classes are about the only thing Huddle patrons should not that features editor; and Rod Braye, 
that will not be happening during the Huddle will not be open . associate editor. the midsemester break. Notre Saturday and Sunday. ThursdayDame students this weekend will evening it will close at 7:30 and be enjoying the first mid-term Friday's hours will be from 8:00 to 

· vacation since the University 4:00. Regular Hours will be started scheduling final exams in followed on Monday, 7:30 a.m. to December. 12:30 a.m. 



PROTECT 
For those who plan to remain on The only change in the Library's campus during the break, the hours is that it will close at 5:00 South Dining Hall will close after p.m. Friday and Saturday and the evening meal on Thursday. remain closed all day Sunday. The Meals will be served for all Bookstore will be open as usual, as 

YOURSELF

students in the North Dining Hall. will the ACC and the Rockne Breakfast on Friday, Saturday Memorial. and Monday will be from 8:00 to 
The Observer is published daily
8:30 and on Sunday one hour later, 
during the college semester except 
AT ALL TIMES
from 9:00 to 9:30. Lunch all four 
vacations by the stuoents of the 
days will be from 12:00 to 1:00, and 
University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S8 per 
dinner Friday, Saturday and 
Sunday will be served from 5:30 to 
semester ($14 per year! from The
6:30. 
Observer Box Q, Notre Dame,
The South Hall will re-open 
Indiana 46556. Second class 
postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind.
Monday for dinner at 5 p.m. as the 
46556. 

SNORKLE COAT
regular meal schedule resumes in 


LEARN TO JUMP 
$39.50 


Warm. Durable. Sharp. Lined. Wrist cuffs. Zipper­button closure...all this and more for a very modest price. Protect yourself! 
~ 

YOUR STORE in style... 
''·1.<. 
MCPC Inc. Skydiving cente1r 
1 
in price...

located 15 min. North East of N.D. 
I 3 miles North of Edwardsburg, Mich. 
in terms... 
.. 
ON THE CAMPUS NOTRE DAMT 

for more information: call (616) 445-8251 · 
,),.,.~.-r· lr :~~ _,J•,.','.·,·,,'l, 
'. 
I •. 

Wednesday, October 17, 1973 the observer 
HPC allocates money to halls 
asked for large banquet funds,by Jim Eder submitted revised requests lastStaff Reporter 
weekend and received allocations for more permanent im­

provements. Requests for small purpose
HPC Chairman Fred 
banquet allotments by Badin andBaranowski announced last night Alumni were denied. Alumni $480 kitchen supplies, recreation room 
that the Hall Life Fund allocation Badin $150 athletic kitchen
equipment, sup­

committee has distributed over plies, porch swing $7800 among twenty-one halls and The committee reviewing the Breen-Phillips $465 color TV, kitchen supplies
has placed $600 in a HPC con­requests of all the halls for Cavanaugh 
$185

allocations consisted of Fred athletic equipment, TV repair
tingency fund. Dillon $329
Baranowski, HPC chairman; Pat athletic equipment, general hall
Holy Cross and Howard Hallshave received the largest McLaughlin, HPC executive improvements
Farley
coordinator; Wally Gasior, $475 color TV
allotments, $550 each. The 
Fisher $150
president of Dillon; Bob Chong, HPC directional TV antennasmallest stipend awarded, $150, 
president of Howard; Ray Vorce, a Flanner $440 athletic equipment, piano went to Badin. 
Student Government represen­Grace $450 athletic equipment, kitchen sup­tative and Kathy Cekanski, rec­allocations plies, used piano
The funds will be used for a wide Holy Cross $550 color TV, kitchens uppliestress of .Breen -Phillips
variety of hall improvements, Howard $550 color TV and antennaranging from pianos to ironing Keenan $544 lights, tables & chairs for foodboards. Athletic equipment. color Speaking for the commitee, sales area, pool table, supplies television sets, and kitchen sup­Baranowski siad, "We allocated Lyons $525 color TV, couches
plies were the three most frequent the money with several things in Morrissey $540 carpeting, general food sales &
requests. mind; (1) the amount awarded to game room improvements
each hall last year, (2) the type of Pangborn $450 TV room furnitureThe allocation committee an­improvements sought, and (3) our St. Edward's $425 color TVnounced last week that it would not own knowledge of each hall's St. Joseph's
allot funds for hall banquets, but $261 athletic equipment, iron & ironing
situation. We believe we have been boardonly for capital improvements. 
consistent in both our approvals Sorin
Consequently, Stanford and St. $415 athletic equipment, piano, hall tool
and rejections of the requests." 
kitEdward's halls, both of which had 

Stanford $285 TV repair, party room im­provements, food sales room (THE OBSERVER] improvements 
Walsh $230 Athletic Equipment, kitchen supplies
I I UFO's sighted p. 10 
Zahm $400 foosball game, cooking utensils 
;==========================================================================================::M.f:=f:=============================================J:~~:?:::===:=:=:=:=:=======~=~?:M:~~=~=~~::=f=~=~g==========:=======================:========== 
S.U. normal 
Commissioners drop 

Rybarczyk charges 
by Tony Proscio derance to the S~ tent Union." Staff Reporter Public relations, he noted, have 
not been damaged. Citing a "quick Student Union is back to normal. start and several successes" early SU Director Jim Rybarczyk, this year, Rybarczyk expressed 
whose recent impeachment by the confidence that student reactions Board of Commissioners was will continue to be positive. dropped Monday, has said his "Student Union stands on its 
office will function "just as we did record," he explained. "Given our 
before this whole thing started." history of past accomplishments, I "I don't see any bitterness think that as long as we are func­
here," he commented. "This tioning, have good programs and hasn't hurt our relationship with are working for students, our PR Student Government at all. I'll should be good." still go out drinking with 'h' The impeachment, he charged, <Student Body President Dennis was a "freakish misun­Etienne), and I hope they feel the derstanding," resulting from 
same way." rumors, a lack of communication, 
Rybarczyk's impeachment, and " sensational news." A which drew protests and particular case against the office resignations from Student Union of director was exaggerated into a administrators, caused a two-week campus-wide issue, he said. delay in regular Union business. The charges, which were ad­
"The dormant period slowed us dressed to Rybarczyk alone, down a lot," Rybarczyk continued. caused further controversy when "We'll have to accelerate now to keep programs going, but beyond three SU officials threatened that, there has been no real hin-resignation and cancellation of 

Fieldhouse alive and 'Well
non-contract events if im­peachment was begun. Associate Director Kenneth Muth, Assistant Director Peter Bohlander, and Comptroller Robert Fahrenbach third kiln is expected to be a "The 2reative and artistic 
submitted resignations when the by Bill Powers student project. motivations of the students have
Staff Reporter

commissioners voted unanimously In addition six potters' wheels produced aesthetic decisions and for impeachment. will be used, thereby transferring are to be praised," commented 
"Our resignations are with-.Five vears after the threat of the ceramic activity from Fern. drawn," Fahrenbach said, "in demolition the Fieldhouse is O'Shaugnessy to the more spacious The best examples of student light of Ralph's <Rybarczyk) not alive and well, and still renovating fieldhouse. Under the south work can be viewed in the Isis being dismissed. I think the im-to suit the needs and activities of bleachers, rooms are being Gallery, directed by graduatepeachment was partially designed by Fr. Albert Moore, stduent Chris Gregory. The
motivated by an emotional the campus artisans. In addition to 
implementing colorful acrylic required Senior Seminar for art
the various studios and the student 

plastics.
response on both sides." gallery,the art department is majors is now planned in con­
Bitterness was temporary' currently constructing a ceramics junction with the student gallery. Fahrenbach continued • but ·area in the center of the The old boxing and fencing Since athletic activity has ter­Student Union and Student Fieldhouse. rooms, as well as the handball minated in the Fieldhouse, the 
Government attutdes now favor 
courts are now used as studios for autonomous Art Department has greater communication and In the past week, a 33' by 60' undergraduate and graduate work. made ample use of the structure. cooperation. cement base was constructed on Undergraduate studio art courses The remarkable factor con­
"We look to the future with the dirt floor by students and are held in the Fieldhouse as well. tributing to its success is the hope," Rybarczyk commented. helpers. Under the direction of Bill Student cooperation in im­cooperation of the students and "We can work problems out Kramer a ceramics instructor proving the Fieldhouse has been faculty to make it amost ac­peacefully and .~ationally; we 1 two g~s 'kilns used to fire pottery cited by Thoma~ S. Fern, the comodating and comfortable proved that here. are being built. The building of a 1Chairman of the Art Department. place to learn.


Personality key in next election 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -Sen. "You're going to have a person to put one of his own pet Capitol Hill. presence on the Hill was made 
Howard Baker, R-Tenn., vice personality oriented president." ideas into practice -the build­"I have a hunch Jerry Ford within the context, he said, of chairman of the Senate Water­Baker made his comments in ing up of the presidential could do that," he said. his feeling that the presidency gate Committee, said Tuesday off-the-cuff remarks to news­presence in the Congress. Baker said Ford was "steady, should become "a little less he believes the 1976 presidential men attending a seminar on Although such duties are not honest (and has) good percep­regal." 
candidates will be personality presidential power sponsored spelled out in the Constitution, tion. He is at least as qualified "I would like to see us revert oriented rather than issue by the Washington Journalism Baker said, the office of the as Harry Truman was when he to a first name presidency," he oriented. Center. vice president "could be was selected." said. "I think it's unlikely you're He also said he thought viee expanded" and the vice presi­Baker also suggested that the Baker also suggested that 
going to have an issue oriented president-designate Rep. Geralld dent could act as "the Watergate Committee might antagonism between the ad­
candidate elected," Baker said. R. Ford, Mich., could be a surrogate" of the President on turn over its records and ministration and Congress was investigatory material to stand­lessening. He said he noticed ing committees of the Senate this when he was at the White
C5A's land supplies 
for a probe of campaign House for the Ford announce­
practices prior to the 1972 ment -noting it was "one of election. The Watergate com­the few times I've been there mittee is prohibited by its lately."


U.S. replenishes Israelis 
Congressional mandate from But he said the Congressmenlooking at any election but the there were no longer "awes­By :\IITC'HEL VINICOR many U.S. transports landed at to the American Embassy to 1972 campaign. truck. They were chatting and AT AN ISRAELI AIR BASE bases with supplies promised bring food, I presume, or His suggestion that Ford joking -and some of it was 
<UPil -U.S. Air Force C5A by President Nixon to counter cigarettes or booze." might be able to provide a quite cruel." 
Galaxies, the world's largest the airlift of Soviet weapons Ito The equipment shuttled in by military transports, landed one Egypt and Syria. the big American planes was after another Tuesday bringing The Israeli military com­not disclosed, but the United American supplies for Israel's mand refused to comment on States said it would supply war effort. Israelis in the street the airlift. "United States jet Israel with tanks, armored were overjoyed at the airlift. transports'?" said an Israeli personnel carries, warplanes, 
There was no indication how official. "They must have come artillery, helicopters and am­munition to replace losses in the first 11 days of the W!lr.
House delays vote on
l 
The supply planes bore U.S. Air Force insignia and Ameri­can flags on their 10-story-tall
new fuel allocation bill 
tails. 

"This is not a permanent
WASHINGTON (UPI) -The 

bill," said Rep. Harley 0. "I get a good feelingHouse indicated Tuesday there whenever I see one of the
Staggers, D-W.Va., H~Hir
is broad support for a bill to planes," said Yehuda, a workermanager of the bill. "This isorder federal allocation of fuels 

at the base. "We have only one we don't do this thing, there is
f on a bigger scale than only for the crisis right now. If good friend we can rely on andPresident has proposed, but a going to be a lot of hardship in that's the United States."
t final vote on the measure was 
I 
this land."
put off. "My opinion about America is very positive because it is
Rep. J. J. Pickle, D-Tex.,
I Oil state and northeastern the only good friend of us,"
I who tried :.msuccessfully to get
eongressmen traded charges of said Ari Gershon, who emigrat­producers exen1pted, said thesectionalism in lengthy debate ed from Russia 45 years ago. "I

President has already orde.t:ed
that included defeat of efforts wouldn't like to expect directallocations of the fuels neededto exempt oil producers from help with manpower and armymost this winter, propane andthe program. 

personnel from America. Butheating oil. The House bill 
The House bill would direct would only be "opening up as I see in the newspapers the Russians are helping the Arabs
the President to order produc­another can of worms," Picklle ers and distributers to furnish said. not only with supplies but with enough fuels to areas of 
personnel." greatest shortage to get The Senate has passed a 
"They certainly should supplythrough the winter fuel crunch. mandatory fuel allocation bill 
Israel," said a recent immi­
The bill's authority would run that would operate along the grant from America who
out Feb. 28, 1975. same lines as the pend1ng refused to give his name. AskedHouse bill. No date was set for
The bill would apply to crude if he thought the U.S. help
further consideration of the

oil, residual oil and refined would put Israel under pressure
House measure.

petroleum products -covering to grant negotiating concessions oil from its production through under U.S. pressure, he said: the wide range of petroleum Raffle winners "Pressures'? Israel has so products. many pressures what's one 
more little one?" 
TRANSPORTATION SPECIALS 
68 FAIRLANE FORD 
6 cylinder Automatic 
$495.00 
67 RAMBLER 
Runs well 6 cylinder -standard 
$395.00 
69 CHEVY WAGON 
RUNS WELL 3 to choose from 
$495.00 
67 CHRYSLER 
Good old transportation RUNS WELL 
$395.00 
67 CHEVY WAGON GOOD BODY 
Runs fair 
$195.00 
68 MALIBU Runs well Looks good 
THIS WEEKS' SPECIAL 

$595.00 
Thank you John Voll Notre Dame '73 Student Representative 
288-1421 
333 Western Avenue South Bend, Ind. 46601 

Such an allocation would, in a sense, spread out any shor­announced tages. It would make sure no 
The winners of the St. Mary's
essential users of fuels such as Affiliate of the American Chemical public health and safety and Society raffle held Monday werethe national defense would go announced yesterday. Kevinwanting. 
Calabria, an ND Senior, won two 

Smaller, independent dealers Southern California footbaH would get supplies on the same tickets. basis as major dealers. Tickets had been sold in the 
The bill would ban the export dining halls for the raffle the past of any fuel subject to alloca­two weeks for fifty cents a piece or tion. A producer could not sell three for a dollar. The proceeds to a profitable foreign market went to a top loading balance for any fuel in short supply at the St. Mary's chemistry deparlt­home. ment. 

----~-­

THE CULTURAL ARTS COMMISSION'S-1 
DANCE & DRAMA SERIES 


presents 
The National Players in Leo Brady's adaptation of Dostoyevsky's 

CRIME AND PUNISHMENT 
~ 

Tuesday, October 23, 1973 8:00 p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium (SMC) admission: $3.00 ***PATRONS FREE*** 
tickets will be on sale at the student union ticket office and at, the door 
•4-~
-.................. -............ . 

,-­
Appeals court to hear IBM case 
Wednesday, October 17, 1973 the observer 

By JERRY R. WILSON 

TULSA, Okla. (UPI) -The IBM-Telex antitrust case will go to a U.S. Court of Appeals without any assignment of damages, a federal judge said Tuesday. 
Citing the evidence presented to him as insufficient, U.S. District Judge A. Sherman Christensen of Salt Lake City said he would certify his previous judgment, finding IBM guilty of antitrust violations and Telex guilty of industrial espionage, for review by the higher court but would leave the question of damages open pending a later determination on his part. 
"I have concluded that the evidence before me is insuffi­cient to justify the recalculation or redetermination of the amount of antitrust damages by specific or approximated sums and accordingly I intend to grant an amendment to the findings of fact, conclusions of law and judgment leaving the amount to be determined at a special hearing or to grant a motion for a new trial on the subject of damages only," Christensen said. 
In a decision handed down Sept. 17, Christensen awarded Telex $352.5 million in treble damages in its antitrust suit against IBM, and awarded $21.9 million to IBM in its industrial espionage counterclaim. 
On Oct. 9, however, Chris­tensen notified both parties that he had made a "substantial error" in making his calcula­tions of the judgment against IBM, later explaining that he had failed to deduct from the IBM judgment certain amounts 

Jackson leads ntayoral election 
By SAM MILLER 

ATLANTA <UPI) -Maynard Jackson, seeking to become the first black mayor of a major southern city, and white incum­bent Sam Massell ran neck-and­neck Tuesday night in early returns from a bitter runoff election for mayor of Atlanta. 
With 70 of the city's 193 precincts reporting, Vice Mayor Jackson, the favorite, had 15 034 votes to Massell's 13,362. 
jackson, 35, came within 3,500 votes of winning outright in a field of 11 candidates two weeks ago. 
Blacks represent 51 per cent of the population in Atlanta, but there are about 4,000 more registererl white voters. 
In the race for President of the city council -a newly created post with virtually. as much power as that of mayor -white alderman Wyche Fowl­er was running well ahead of 
Fowler appeared to be 

Pasto wins 
R.I.T. honor 
Dr. Daniel J. Pasto, University vf Notre Dame professor of chemisty, has been chosen one of two Rochester (N.Y.l Institue of Technology Outstanding Alumni of 1973. 
The award recognizes alumni of the school who through exceptional accomplishr11ent in such areas as professional endeavor, civic contributions and personal in­tegrity have brought significant honor to it. 
Pasto, who received his un­dergraduate degree from the Institure in 1958, earned a Ph. D. in chemistry from Iowa State University. He joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1961. 
getting a considerable portion Jackson and Williams togetherof the black vote. 
virtually as a ticket -despiteThe principal issue in the Jackson's refusal to supportrunoff grew out of Massell's Williams, and Williams' denun­switch to a theme of "Atlanta's ciation of Jackson. He said 
black civil rights leader Hosea their election would mean the 
Williams, with 18,533 votes ­decline of Atlanta because 
over 62 per cent -to 9,038. 
many whites were "scared" of too young to die." He lumped them. 
Philippines victimized 


Ruth hits islands 
MANILA <UPI) -Typhoon Ruth, the third major storm to hit the Philippines in a week, swept away a bridge Monday night with 40 persons on it and only four were rescued, the official Philippine News Agency said Tuesday. There was no word on the fate of the others, many of them children. 
The bridge gave way during the height of the typhoon in Nueva Ecija Province, one of the hardest-hit areas, 70 miles north of Manila, the agency said. 
There were at least five other drownings reported due to the powerful typhoon that caused flooding and landslides and forced the evacuation of thou­sands of persons. 
The storms triggered floods from Manila to the "rice bowl" provinces of central Luzon. In metropolitan Manila areas alone, an estimated 15,000 persons fled their homes along the banks of the rain-swollen Pasig River, according to _the Department of Social Welfa1"e. 
Ruth, however, spared the main Manila area and its 4.5 million residents of the full force of its 85 mile-an-hour winds but it whipped up fringe 

SENIOR TRIP 
Fun -Sunshine Parties-ND Football 

AND YOUII 
BE PART OF A GREAT COMBINATION 
Sign up for t.he Senior Trip ~ 
J 

*NOW* 
Call 23.3:-9555 
winds and heavy rains to cause flooding along the Pasig and low-lying districts. 
At 10 a.m., she was tracked by land radar about 160 miles northwest of Manila moving towards the South China after 
an  overland  sweep  across  
central  Luzon  and  some  north­ 
ern provinces.  

Weathermen predicted im­proving weather over Manila and the rest of Luzon as Ruth moves out towards the South China sea. 
Of the two earlier typhoons, Nora and Patsy, Nora caused the most damage with its 160 mile-an-hour peak winds, leav­ing more than one million homeless and 24 dead. 

he felt might the Telex clai be used to m.  offset  
Attorneys  for  both  sides  

commented after the judge's statement that it appeared he would send the original judg­ment to the appeals court and would decide later on how to proceed with determining the amount of the antitrust judge­ment. 
Christensen said the main thought regarding the appeals court was the hope they wMild "make a determination on the relationship between trade se­crets misappropriations and antitrust actions." 
He called the present case "unprecedented" in the conflict between the two suits under consideration. 

·rhe finest in 

·Steaks
Cantonese Cuisine at Moderate Prices' 
Chicken 
Sea Food 

Quiet atmosphere pleasant surroundings 
CLOSED MONDAYS 
Don't give up the ship! 


Take advantage of the time you have over the break to get your hair cut and styled at the Windjammer. It will be time well spent! 
Now open Monday thru Saturday 








Uhe WinJfammer 
All Services by Appointment 1637 Lincoln Way West Phone 232-6622 

KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS 
FEATURES 
Vke J3ank :bick 

FRIDAY, OCT. 19 

Showings: 

7, 8:30, l 0, ll:30 Admission -so~ Members Free 
Proceeds Go To CORVILLA 
":...:'..._ .............. ": ":·~·~... '.. ~..'-.. ".._ ~._ ~... "•. \_ '·......_(.'. 






THE OBSERUER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Jerry Lutkus Art Ferranti 
Dan Barret1
Editor-in-Chief 

Executive Editor Executive Editor 
NEWS: 283-1715 

Lee Gentine EDITORIALS: 283-8661 John Kloos Advertising Manager
Business Manager BUSINESS: 283-7471 
Wednesday, October 17, 1973 

Dpinian

Learning A Lesson 
Where Are 

Now that the Student Union "crisis" has subsidized and the Board of Com­missioners has decided to turncoat on their original decision to impeach S. U. Director Jim Rybarczyk, it's time to look back at the crisis and suggest methods with which to handle the ticket situation. Also, it is the time to make a suggestion for the return of a popular Union acitivity. 
In 1970 and 1971, football tickets for the Homecoming Game were distributed through a lottery system. All students interested in purchasing tickets got into the lottery and took their chances. 
That system for some reason was scrapped last year, but if the union learns by their mistakes, they will see that the lottery system should be resumed. (Even though this union staff will not be in power next year, they can lay the groundwork and pass on the advice.) 
On two days of the week, the Student Union Ticket Office should be used as the sign up area. All students including Union members should register at the office for the lottery. The registrations would be passed on to a computer which would then do a random selection program and come up with a list of 250 people who can buy a pair of tickets--and all 500 tickets should be sold. That list can then be posted in the Huddle and printed in The Observer. 
The day that the list is printed in the paper until the end of that week, those 250 students can present their I D's at the Ticket Office and purchase their tickets. If at the end of the week, all 250 pairs are not picked up, then the students who have number over 250 can serve as a waiting list and get their opportunity to purchase the tickets. 
This lottery system is the only fair way of handling the tickets. Also, hopefully, the union won't be stuck with the misfortune next year of having to use a game of the magnitude of the SC game as the Homecoming Game. This year there was no choice in the matter, hopefully, next year that won't be the same. 
daanesbury 
CERAMICS?! W6U,I'U HOWCtJf//.0 f<EAO YOtl I BE THE REPOR.T r/1/L..ING FROM YOVR. C£1<AMICS?l INSTRt!CTOR. 

The Over--The-Hill night on Wednesday nights in LaFortune is the activity that should return. Over-the Hill was a project initiated by the Union a few years ago featuring campus folk talent and rock bands in the second floor ballroom of LaFortune ,every Wenesday night. It was always a great way to break up the week and gave an informal gathering spot for students. Further, it created a large showcase for campus talent and brought many people into the student center. 
The return of an activity of this order would be a big plus for the S.U. 
Jerry Lutkus 


Have a good break! 
-The Observer 



The Students? 

Leanne .Jacques 
Last weekend that famed elusive group, known as the SMC Board of Regents met. The revised male visitation policy remained tabled with a 12-12 vote. Why? Mary Ellen Stumpf, student representative, declares the new Board members (12 of them) needed time to get "informed about the entire picture". Why weren't these new mem­bers informed before the meeting? Because they weren't chosen in ample time. Why weren't they chosen within a considerable amount of time by which they could have received information? Doesn't St. Mary's at least owe this much to the students? 
And what do the students owe? They owe it to themselves the op­portunity to get out from under the barrel. I don't believe that the students are apathetic because there seems to be genuine concern over the issue. The problem results from a defeatest attitude. "What can we do?" is the common question. 
First of all the Board of Regents meet during hard times for the students. Right before breaks. During breaks. Exam time. Clearly, taking time for action jeopardizes a student's grades which are im­portant. Yes, sir, exams certainly keep us in line. (Remember the merger?) 
Secondly, any action such as a mass violation of the no-male visitation policy works against rather than for the student body. We would only prove that we ARE "irresponsible" and confirm the idea that we are not mature enough to handle parietals. 
Obviously the Board of Regents do not recognize the change in student life as it is today. They view the halls as wall to wall bedrooms rather than the homes that they are to the people who reside in them. Nothing is immoral about entertaining in your homes. 
It seems ironic that the women at St. Mary's, in the eyes of the nation, are old enough to marry and bear children, but in theeyesof the college are not old enough to run their own lives. Ironic! It's pitiful. 
The objection of violating someone's privacy is totally absurd. Privacy is something that roommates work out among themselves, not something handed down by holy decree. Privacy is not dictated. It is negotiated between the involved parties. 
The social life at St. Mary's lacks a comfortable and natural atmosphere.. COh, those phrases from across the road!) St. Mary's is going to need all the social advantages it can get. The increasing co­education of Notre Dame will make the social situation at St. Mary's a lot tighter. St. Mary's decided for academic independence but still carries a social dependence on Notre Dame. Isn't it time we shared social opportunities rather than lived off them? 
So what CAN we do? Last year a random survey was sent out among the student body to poll opinion on the parietal issue. We need a total view of the student body, a complete poll. This poll could then be sent to each member of the Board of Regents. And then? Try to set up a trial visitation weekend. How? Through governmental processes, which could take a while, but if the pressure was really on, the proposals made up quickly and accurately enough, emergency meetings called for this purpose the time would be greatly shortened. 

And if after we have acted reasonably, maturely and logically and still get no response or even an inane response ..what do we do? (Raise our status. Become equal to parents and alumni. Initiate bake sales and funding campaigns to raise bribe money.) Hold a mass violation of the rules. What have we got to lose then? 
Anyone interested in working on a telephone polling committee call 
4027. 

t;~arry trudeau 
LISTEN, 
Cf..ASSY 
ASHTRAYS I AGREe. 11/K& riME! THIS 15 
the observer 
Night editor: Ann McCarry Superstars: Tom Devine, Terry Keeney, Art Ferranti, Dan Barrett, Jerry Lutkus, Butch Ward, Vic Dorr Copy Reader: Terry Keeney Day Editor: Jim Rosini Typisists: Carol Rechensteiner, Barb Norcross, Tom Modglin 
Night Controller: Phil Orscheln Compugraphic: Mike Goetz Business secy. : Ceil Popovich Frustrated met fan and TV Owner: John Finneran 
after the first quarter, the score: Observer 31, Staff 0. 
Anthony-Thanx .•• now get some rest! 


Bad Waves 
Dear Editor: 
On Friday morning I woke to the sound of my phone ringing. I fell out of bed to answer it and on the other end of the line was a friend of mine screaming hysterically to turn on the radio and tune in to WSND. It seems that Spiro Agnew, former vice president of our nation, was being publically screwed by the University of Notre Dame. 
I turned on WSND, "the voice of Notre Dame," and could only listen for a minute. It was sad, the radio station representing the University of Notre Dame, acting so juvenile, so bush-league, just because the person running the show, Fred Graver seems to have a personal gripe against the Nixon administration. 
I have read Graver's articles 
printed in the Observer and 
respect him as a journalist, but I 
think it is sad that he took ad­
vantage of his air time on the radio 
to castigate Mr. Agnew. Or maybe 
it wasn't just Graver, maybe it 
was the entire staff of WSND. 
It seems funny to me that a radio 
station as bad as WSND would 
have the nerve to desecrate 
someone else's name when, in 
reality, someone should have the 
nerve to desecrate theirs. 
I only hope that no one other than 
regular listeners of WSND heard 
this show, for it certainly was a 
bad reflection and disgrace for the 
entire University. 
Gina Haffey, a staff member at 
WSND, once told me that those 
letters stood for "We Serve Notre 
Dame." I think, more ap­
propriately, they should stand for 
"We Shame Notre Dame." 
Jane Cannon 

A Strange Peace 
I woke up today (Tuesday) to 
read the most disturbing news in 
a long time. 
While American military sup­
plies were being loaded onto the 
deck of the Aben Det., President 
Nixon was speaking at a Medal of 
Honor ceremony in Washington.
This is what he had to say: ''I 
would conclude by saying that the 
men honored today and the thousands of other Americans who also should be honored, who served
this country in Viet Nam, made it 
possible for the United States to 
play the honored role of 
peacemaker in the world." 
After reading his comment my 
eyes moved to a poster on my wall. ~~~~~~~~""""'!!!!""!"'""""'!!""""'!!!!""!"'""""'!!""""'!!~~~~~~~~~~~~11-01 
I read the quote I have read at least thirtv times already. "Peace cannot be kept by force. it can only be achieved by understanding." <Albert Einstein) 
I must be crazy. Did we bring peace to Viet Nam and the entire Indochina area? I have been living under the impression that the fighting in Southeast Asia con­tinues to this very day. 
What makes our President think we are the "peacemaker of the world"? (If military supplies were drugs we'd be the "junkie of the 
PITT BUS NOON THURSDAY FROM CCE CALL BOB 2127 FOR SEATS 
world." 
The bumper sticker that reads "Impeach with Honor" is becoming less of a joke every day. 
Pardon my haphazar<j.ness. I am confused. 
Anthony Chifari 

Tips On Journalism 
To the editor: 
Regarding the controversy of the refusal of the stadium to allow the couple to enter with their 5 month old baby and the corresponding University policy, the Observer and therefore the manipulated student opmwn has been somewhat quick in responding with their proclivity of condemning the adminstration. I am not defending the university's policy in the case, merely expressing criticism of its thoughtless con­demnation. The point has been repeatedly made that the motivator for this policy is dollar oriented. Not since 1964 has Notre Dame failed to fill its stadium and it becomes increasingly less likely each year that we will have any sub-capacity crowds. Anyone capably of the least logical thinking would realize that by insisting even infants have tickets for admissions, not more tickets will be sold. Therefore there will be no moe gate receipts. Obviously then, the motives behind this policy are not to get their grubby hands on an additional $8 from a child who will not even remember the game as was implied and boldly stated by the Observer. Perhaps a good reason would be the in­convenience to paying customers of being squeezed off the bench by a family who would abuse such a privilege and perhaps there is no good reason. However anyone with journalsitic responsibility must recall that speculative 
reporting and hasty conclusions will frequently lead to erroneous judgement. 
Respectfully, Joe Fegoosk 
:~:::::::::::::;:~:=:::::::;::;:;:;:;:::;:;:;:;:;:;::!:::=;:::;:;:;:;:::;:::;:::::!, 
:::.~::'_StatiOnary 2 0% off::;·:::.:_ Cards 
.. 
:~:~: with t h is ad. :i:i :~:::::::::::;;::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:::::::::::i Bo0 ks Magazines 

mini-mall. town & countrv 2340 miracle lane Art shopping center mishawaka, indiana 46544 suppfie4: 
1.(') 
(") 
...0 
~






kb~ Qi§km;ri 
...0 
u
E => 
-. ..c.
·~ 
..,u 
1723 S. Bend Avenue 272-9800 
ss.09 A HALF GALLON ­GIN OR VODKA 
+By the Full Case+ 

LARGEST SELECTION OF WINES, BEERS, LIQUORS NEAR CAMPUS AND THE BEST PRICES AVAILABLE. 
EAST ON EDISON-LEFT AT LINEBACKER 200yds..on left 10 percent DISCOUNT ON CALL A DAY AHEAD CASES OF LIQUOR AND WINE TO ORDER KEGS 
------------------------~~--------------~-------------------, 
Wednesday, October 17, 1973 the observer 7 

courtesy or human decency-stop to 
help. What is it that drives a man 
so far into himself that he has 
nothing to give, no concern to 
share with his fellow man? What 
type of person can call himself a 
MAN if he cannot show com­
passion, if he cannot stoop to help 
someone else? It doesn't take large 
monetary contributions to the 
overseas missions. It doesn't take 
hours of collecting for the United 
Appeal. While all these things are 
good in themselves, to be a man, 
all a person has to do is stretch out 
his hand, sincerely and honestly, to 
someone standing close by who has 
a need-be it physical, mental, or 
deeply emotional. Or maybe it's 
just the need for a friendly smile Editor: and someone to talk to. 
On thursday evening, Mark Maybe if we give it a try, just limped into the cafeteria with a once, to try to reach someone, sprained ankle. He waited in line, others might get the idea too. And got a tray of food and tried to maybe, someday, we won't see hobble to a table with both crut-invalids lying on floors while people trip over them and others point and laugh. And maybe we won't see blind people walking into blind alleys without a word of direction. And maybe we won't hear people refusing to help someone in their class because school is cut-throat, and it might raise the curve if somebody else does well. And maybe we won't find .people standing like dumb cattle next to each other--physical inches apart, and yet personally beyond reach. And just maybe, someday, we'll all wake up and be able to sincerely say to our­selves,"Hey, I'm proud to be here. r·m proud to be a member of the Notre Dame counity. I'm proud to be-a man." 
Stephen Paspek 

ches under one arm, and the tray r-..;.;......;,;;;;......:;;._.:;;.._ _,;;,;.;.;;.__..;.;.;;;;.;..._____________ 
balanced on the other hand. He W I N0/SMC M & W 
slipped On a piece of tomatoe, and I e come en omen fell to the floor in a painful heap. M b h • A •1 b I 
The tray flew through the air and em e r s I ps v a I a e 
struck the wall with a crash. Broken glass, roast beef, potatoes to South Bend's New
and gravy lettered the floor. Standing not four feet away were 
three cafeteria workers, proudly 

Downtown Pr,·vate Club
displaying their new striped jackets. Seeing Mark on the floor, 
they immediately sprang into 


'THE RED DOOR CLUB 
action. The fist stood there and laughed. The second pointed at 11 0 I/ N M • 
Mark and laughed. The third just j===:;~~s;:==:/~~2~~·~~a;•~n~~~~;;;::====1
stood there. Four 
people closely following Mark almost tripped over him, and then walked quickly away to their tables, thankful that they did not have to get involved. People sitting all around made no move. Finally, a fellow sitting half way across the cafeteria got up, ran over, helped the invalid to a chairJ cleaned up the mess, and got the man another tray of food. The cafeteria workers ignored him, being pre­occupied with slouching against the stained wall, showing off their new jackets and their manly lack of sympathy. 
Meanwhile, a blind black man 


MOUltS. MON -TUES -TIQ -Rl 
PAM 5:30PM 
WfD • SAT 9 AM 12 NOON COMPlEI'E liPIIC'ACll

RoGERS 
SElVICE 
ALL l'iH ot.'S PIIESCliPTIONS HONOIEt


Optical e..11 
2.89-7809 

walked into the serving area.~~~~~~~~============~:::::::::::::~
Miscalculating he walked right into the glass shelves holding deserts. The worker stocking the shelves uttered no word of war­ning, neither did the people around hin1. · 
And where did all this happen? Right here at Notre Dame. Right in the middle of a Christian com­munity so intent on eating and slouching that they couldn't take a minute to help a fellow student, a fellow Christian, a fellow human being! 
Why didn't the people all around him-in the name of God,common 
r 
Give Southern California the 

IRISH 
Irish Flags 4" X 6" 
59~ 








IIIIIJI•IS
Shop: Mondoy-Soturdoy 10-tO. Sundoy 10.1 Phone: 259-0110 
100 Center Complex Mishawaka 
In the Old Kemm'a Brewery 

LONDON. PARIS ANTWERP. ROTTERDAM. SYDNEY MeLBOURNE. TORONTO. MONTREAl. 
VANCOUVER NEW YORK BOSTON. MIAMI. PHIUDELPHIA CHICAGO DETROIT. PlnSBURGH. HOUSTON. DALLAS PHOENIX SAN.__~FIANCISCO. SEATTLE. LOS ANGElES 
8 

Students ur1aware of activities 
by Judy Rauenhorst Staff Reporter 
Many students are unaware of off-campus activities and job programs offered to minority students through Student Ac­tivities. Cassell Lawson, director of off-campus student activities and minority student affairs, is the man behind these two programs. 
As director of off-campus student activities, Lawson coor­dinates volunteer functions with the South Bend Community. He said that 1200 students spend time outside the University in volunteer roles. One program involves students who work with the Urban League Street Academy. "These students spend time with dropouts in a tutorial capactity or as teacher's aids," explained Lawson. 
The second aspect of Lawson's job, that of working with minority students, involves coordinating black organizations on campus. 
"I see our role as a service type role and a training type role," said Lawson. In explaining the service role, ·Lawson sa1d It main.ly ·m­volves counseling minority students that may not seek it elsewhere. "The emphasis is to help students to get a direction and to better understand the structure they are caught up in," he stated. 
"This counseling addresses itself to all aspects of student life: social events, financial aid, boy-girl relations, admissions, anything that is not within the academic realm. All academic questions go to Dr. Joseph Scott of the Black 
Studies Program," continued Lawson. 
The director of minority student affairs is responsible for two facilities in LaFortune. "The Black Cultural Arts Center on the third floor allows students to have a place they can go, external to the classroom. It is an extension of the classroom complete with artifacts 
and literature, enabling the in­
dividual to become intellectually 
involved," explained Lawson. 
He emphasized that the center is 
open to all students to become 
aware of the Black situation and to 
socialize. "Every Wednesday 
evening we have a fiim in the 
center in conjunction with the 
Black Studies Program," said 
Lawson. 

In describing the training role, Lawson told of the seven students he works with. Undergraduates Lionel Phillips, Greg Crawford and Richard Dickinson keep the Black Cultural Arts Center open. Albert Mendez and Billy Banner man the Mnority Counseling Center located in the basement of LaFortune. Two graduate students, Sharon Browner and Craig Adams, act as a liason between the two centers. 
"These people are in interims of training. Each week we meet and discuss skills tht help them to work efficiently," said Lawson. "When notified of a student that needs help, we move out into the 
Professors receive awards 
by Ken Bradford Staff Reporter 
Three Notre Dame economiCs professors have received the Kazanjian Foundation Award for their achievement in economic education. 
The winning program was developed two years ago by Professors William Davisson, Frank Bonello, and Kenneth Jameson, along with Frank Navratile, a graduate student here last year. 
The Kazanjian Award is presented by the Joint Council of Economic Education for im­provements made in the teaching of economics. 
In addition to winning its recipients a $1000 cash prize, the award, according to Jameson, "helps establish Notre Dame as 
··"· 
one of the main economic teaching centers in the country." 
Jameson described the change in approach by saying that in many classes "concepts are thrown at students; they memorize them, take an exam, and forget them." 
The innovative program in­volves "teaching students the skills which economists really use," Jameson expl'i.ined. Students are introduced to com­puter programming and statistical testing techniques. 
The Economics 101-102 course taught by Professors Davisson, Bonello and Jameson is offered to forty freshmen and consists of two lectures and one lab every week. 
In the lectures, students are taught the basic concepts and the philosophy of economics. In the lab sessions, they concentrate on 
economic problems. 

do whatever 
liVE ANd STudyiN ROME 
LOYOLA UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO . ROME CENTER OF LIBERAL ARTS 
. ' 

' ~'..;::, • Classes taught in English 
• All academic credits transfer 
• 60 courses offered each S"'~ester: 
ANTHROPOLOGY • CLASSICAL STUDIES • ENGLISH & ITALIAN LIT. • FINE ARTS • HISTORY • ITALIAN 
• 
PHILOSOPHY • POLITICAL SCIENCE • PSYCHOL­OGY • THEATRE • THEOLOGY 

• 
350 schools represented over 10 years 

• 
Campus villa houses some 275 students; 


MANY STATE SCHOLARSHIPS TRANSFER APPLICATIONS ACCEPTED NOW FOR SPRING 74 AND 1974-75 
-------------------· 
FOR INFORMATION MAIL TO: LOYOLA UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO ROME CENTER OFFICE, 6525 N. SHERIDAN RD., CHICAGO, ILL. 60626 
Name School 
Address 

City State Zip 
economists do," Jameson added. 
A key force in their winning the award was the success students taking the course displayed through the quality of their work, Jameson said. 
Jameson also said that the program received valuable sup­port from Dr. Dennis Duggan, Chairman of the Economics University environment and knock on doors. If we cannot help, we will direct the student to a special service. It is important that the trainees know how to corn­municate and confront people in their own environment," added Lawson. 
Department,  and  Dr.  Frederick  
Crosson, Dean of Arts and Letters.  the  College of  

One of the activities this semester was a black student convention held September 15. "I saw students sit down and take a hard look at the issues in the community," said Lawson. As a result of the conference they hope to implement academic houses where 'improved' students could live to reinforce their behavior and eliminate anxiety. 
La~son emphasized that the programs set up are nothing new. "We want to coordinate counseling functions with the University for students who might come to LaFortune while feeling reluctant to go to the Administration Building," said Lawson. 
"I feel very warm and positive about what has happened to minority students and I am happy in my role. I think things will continue to improve in working with the students toward their goals," claimed Lawson. His main objective is to help students achieve academic excellence and allowing them to make ad­justments to a new environment. "We have a lot to do, but I am comfortable in the progress we have made," concluded Lawson. 
Prior to coming to Notre Dame in 1970, Lawson was director of the Urban League in South Bend for three years. He is presently working toward his doctorate in Counseling Psychology. 



Ttrtftont 
Tires 
GROUP PURCHASE AGREEMENT 
Now available at a special discount to all students and em­ployees of Notre Dame. We handle a complete line of 4 ply, Belted, Radial, and Import car tires; at your special price. Also, our Philco appliance and Electronic Department will extend the discount. Please bring your I.D. card for iden­tification. 
OFFER GOOD ONLY AT OUR DOWNTOWN STORE 
502 S. Michigan South Bend, Indiana 
THE ~TROH 8i£WEI1Y tOMPM.Y. Oflii:Oil, MI(HIGAN 48226 

Get your heads together. 
From one beer lover to another. 

.. ·.. ·~:..

'.,. ·.· ........ ·. -.·-. ; 
Wednesday, October 17, 1973 
the observer 
Committee probes dark spots 
by Jeanne Murphy Staff Reporter 
Have you recently seen a group of girls walking around campus at night with a flash light in one hand and a map in the other? They were part of a Lighting Committee organized by Sister John Miriam Jones to find the darkest spots on campus. 
Sr. John Miriam, assistant to the provost, has been concerned for some time about the inadequate lighting facilities on campus. She attributes the major problem of the "unevenness" of lights to the fact that "lighting has not kept pace with the expansion of the campus." 
She organized a committee of ten women students who made nightly tours of the campus and indicated on a map, dark areas which needed lighting. The girls on the com­mittee were: Diana Merten and Kathy Johnson from Breen­Philips; Ann Weber and Evelyn 
Homecoming dance detailed 
by Rick Scharf Homecoming events. The dance 
Staff Reporter will not conflict with the pep rally 
or the free folk concert scheduled 
"A Barn Dance" is the theme for earlier that evening. Also, the the 1973 homecoming dance rumor that an armory party is 
scheduled for Fri., Oct. 26, from 9 planned for homecoming weekend 
p.m. to 1 a.m. in Stepan Center. is false. Some confusion concerning the "It will not be a square dance," 
dance has hurt ticket sales thus 
stressed Guiltinan. "The band we far, according to Rich Guiltinan, arehaving_ will play rock, popularstudent co-ordinator of music, and some country-western 
A's net Mets in 11th, 3-2 
NEW YORK <UPI) Bert Cam­paneris singled home an unearned run in the 11th inning Tuesday night to give the Oakland A's a 3-2 victory over the New York Mets in the third straight World Series gamE> decided by defensive .lapses. 
The victory gave the A's a 2-1 lead in this wild Series which hasn't been notable for much good play but has had plenty of ex­citement. 
New York staked Tom Seaver, its best pitcher, to a 2-0 lead, but he wasn't able to hold it when Joe Rudi punched a single just under first baseman John Milner's glove in the eighth inning to score Campaneris with the tying run. 
Errors by Felix Millan, the goat of the Mets' first-game defeat, gave the A's scoring chances in both the 9th and lOth innings but each time Tug McGraw pitched out of danger. But in the 11th, a strikeout-passed ball play, reminiscent of catcher Mickey Owens' famous gaffe which cost Mongovran from Badin; Maureen Lathers and Barbara Budde from Farley; Ginna Smith and Sue Darin from Walsh; and from Lewis Hall, Sr. Theresa Sandok and Sr. Arlene Lenox. 

The committee designated fourteen different locations where lights are needed. Some of thes~ dark areas include Sacred Heart Church between the Ad­ministration Building and Sorin Hall; St. Edward's Hall and the Administration Bulding route to the laundry; the area between the Huddle, the Business Ad­ministration Building and Nieuwland Science; the right and left sides of the Field house; bet­ween Howard, Lyons and Morrissey; the road along the lake to the ROTC building, to Old College, and to Lewis Hall from the 
Sr. John Miriam reports lighting for safety, not only 
power plant; and the St. Mary's security.
road to St. Joseph Hall where there claims that there are many are no lights at all. hazardous spots on campus where 
Safety precautions, not so much it is hard to see where you are security precautions are Sr. John walking. Thus, she is "not in­Miriam's main concern. She terested in supermarket lighting," 
the Brooklyn Dodgers a shot at the 1941 Series set up the winning run. 
This game, the first World Series game ever played at night in New York, which has hosted more of these contests than any other city, marked the first time in 40 years and the second time ever that two successive Series games ran into extra innings. 

Snow Recaps 
$2295 
560-15 Plus F.E.T. 

Premium 4 Ply Nylon Snow Ti,res 
starts as low as $ 
1695 
Plus F.E.T. 
F78-14 Blackwalls 





20% off 
on all tail pipes,exhaust pipes and muffler,s 
Discount Tire Service 50595 U.S. 31 North 272-1023 
OPEN DAILY 'TILL 6, SAT. 'TILL·4 

songs." The band booked for the dance is "Windjammer." 
A buffet dinner, catered by the Capri Restaurant, will be served consisting of sandwiches, potato salad, and soft drinks. 
Stepan Center will be decorated extensively to create the at­mosphere of a barn. A horse and wagon will also be available for those who would like to have their picture taken at the dance. 
A theme was chosen for this year's Homecoming Dance due to the success of the '72 dance which used the theme of Prohibition. "About 500 couples attended last year's dance and I think everyone really had a great time," Guiltinan added. 
Tickets for the dance, on sale at the Student Union Ticket Office LaFortune Center and in the Dining halls during meal hours, are $6 per couple. 
:-.. i'§''ib'd'*'''¥it1...: 
WITH COUPON : 

: FULL EI&IIE TUIE-UP : 



!tiilf$20'·!
. . 
: ~~~ ~4c;~R ~-~~L~u~~RS.: 
t AIR COND. CARS $2 MORE.: : INCLUDES PLUGS. POINTS,, 
: CONDENSER, CHECK : 
: ~~~~CET~~!a~~~~~R : 
•••••• --•• -.--••••• -••• --c • • WZ.i 1 *u~t•i·"'?·Jtj. 
WITH COUPON 

FROITEUa
Ali61MEIT ,~ 
MOST AMERICAN • 
CARS 
PARTS EXTRA 
IF NEEDED 

~-······················
. ·tt·''"dh'**'"R·U'·. 
WITH COUPON 

BRIIE RELIIIIG 
EXCEPT DISC 

.BRAKES AND 
~c:;;:• 
•' INCLUDES FULL
. 
INSPECTION. 
t FLUID AND CLEAN. 
,.. ··: 
.
.


·----·~············ 
SHOCK 
SALE $444 
PLUS IISTILUTIGI 
·······~·············.·~--.. 
but rather, maintaining a "soft light effect." 
A private lighting company has been sought to conduct their own survey on the campus light situation. After this company has completed their investigation, all the data from the committee and company will be com piled to see where new lights should be added. 
Eighteen lights were previously ordered before the committee went on their search, but Sr. John Miriam feels that more lampposts will be needed to sufficiently cover the dark areas on campus. 
Ken McCandless, a member of the Campus Committee for En­vironment, feels that the com­mittee is "good in the sense that it lists places, it is good input and needed." He has submitted several proposals which would change the lighting situation on campus, but none of his suggestions have been im­plemented. He claims that the committee's work should not be the only input into any decision, but the men on campus should also have some input and voice. Lights accomodate both sexes, he said. Therefore, the girl's committee should not be the only voice on the situation. 
Community 
General Store 
• 
Water Beds 

• 
LEATHER GOODS 


·MAGAZINES 
•Newspapers 
·CLOTHING 
• 
Posters 

• 
S·track Tapes


·CANDLES 
• Jewelry·Cards 
•INCENSE 
•Rugs 
, 

•
Tapestry ·Bedspreads 


·PIPES ·PAPERS 
·Lites 

•NOVELTIES ·BOOKS 

113 West MonroeSt 
ONE BLOCK WEST OF THE NEW ,~ POST OFFICE 
609 East Jefferson Mishawaka 
UFO'S sited around the world 

By llnited Press International "Where they are coming from 
and why they were here is a matter It's red. It's blue. Some times it of conjecture," Hynek said. "But turns green. It has wrinkled skin, the fact_ that they were here on this 
crab-claw hands and pointy ears. planet rs a beyond a reasonable It has a beard. It foams at the doubt." mouth. And the Russians say it The attorney for t~ two shipyard may be trying to say howdy. workers -Charles Hrckson, 42, and 
It has been seen down by the old Calvin Parker, 18-said they were fishing hole at Bascagoula, Miss., "just _resting" Tuesda~ and would out near the airport at Beckley, W. take lte-detecto~ tests m a week or Va., in the piney woods of so to prove therr story: Louisiana and in the hallowed halls Around the world m Moscow, of the College of the Ozarks in Soviet scientists ~aid. they picked Arkansas. up unusual radro srgnals from 
And it has been heard in space and did not rule out that they Moscow. came from another civiliza_tion. The UFO craze is on again with a The Tass news agency satd the vengeance. 
signals, of a type never heard Two Pascagoula shipyard before, came in pulses after workers claimed they were hustled 
definite lapses of time, last for aboard a blue,fish-shaped craft by several minutes and are repeated three weird creatures who gave 
several times a day. Tass said them the once over with and eye­
scientists have ruled out the like scanning device. possibility that the signals are A Northwestern University 
from satellites launched from astronomer, Dr. Allemn Hynek, earth. said flatly the craft was from 
"It is not precluded that they another planet. may be sent by a technically developed extra terrestial civilization," the Russian report said. Tass said Professor Samuel Kaplan of Gorky University was the first to pick up the signals. Later they were heard in other Soviet cities. 
At Pine, La., sheriff's deputies chased five orage'reddish flying objects 12 miles through the woods early Tuesday. 
"One of our deputies was scared pretty bad," said Deputy Michael Moore. "He turned on his red lights, and they came down at his patrol car. He turned them off and they just vanished ike in a cloud." 
Pine and Pascagoula are 150 miles apart. Down the road at Slidell, across Lake Pontchartrain from New Orleans, Lloyd Mercier said he was driving home when he saw a UFO that was 20 feet thick with a streakthrough it. 
"All I could see was a red glow. It looked like it came straight out of the water. I've seen it tonight with my own natural eyes," Mercier said. "I have to believe 
...and at notre dame ••• 
by Kit Baron Staff Reporter 
An exceptionally fast-moving and brilliant "star" caught the attention of three Breen-Phillips residents yesterday evening. Appearing directly overhead, the object travelled in a straight line and then curved, making a rather circular motion while shifting its light intensity. These girls weren't the only ones who spotted a strange object in the sky at 6:40 p.m. yesterday evening. 
Eight other calls reported sightings of UFO's wer made to the Indiana State Post at Ligonier. The reports were received from residents in Noble, La Grange, Steuben and De Kalb Counties. 
According to Officer Don Hayden of the p-,st, all reports "describe 'it' tp be white and yellow; 'they' remain stationary 
Party vehicle 
runs today 
by Terry Keeney Staff Reporter 
The "Party Bus" is on the road again. The r.on-e>.press shuttle bus between Notre Dame and St. Mary's will be transformed into a party bus between noon and 5 p.m. today. 
Along with the usual party decor and refreshments of soda pop and potato chips, Juan Manigault, special projects commissioner for the Social Commission , has pror..sed live entertainment. Riders can listen to live guitar music or play "Pin Woodstock on Snoopy" --the "Peanuts" version of pin-the-tail-on-the-donkey. 
"Your friendly host and hostess for the ride will be Tom Callahan and Debbie Sansoni," said Manigault. 
Manigault believes that the shuttle bus is a good vehicle for meeting people. Yet too often the riders make no effort to mingle with others. He hopes the "party bus" can stimulate more in­teraction. 
"The purpose of the party bus is to create a feeling of warmth on the bus with a party atmosphere," explained Manigault. "This way people lose their inhibitions and see others as people, instead of as statues." 
for a short period and then change location with great speed; and "it"' as reported by one observer, caused interference with a walkie talkie radio. 
Goshen Police Department stood outside their station last night to observe a "stationary, bright light, that had been moving." This l:ight appeared to be directly above Goshen College. 
Another South Bend student spotted "seven real bright dots in the sky. They were in a v­formation and were going like a streak of lightening but we got a good look at them." Both students of Central Night School, called the police department at ap­proxinlately 7:30 p.n1. 
Typical of other reports calied in 
to local police stations throughout 
the state and nation, a local state 
police officer received a report 
from a resident of Culver who 
sighted alight glow with a redish 
tint to the east of Culver. The 
party calling mentioned that they 
observed it for at least 20 minutes 
prior to calling. 
Again, the light intensity of the 
object alternately dimmed and 
brightened. Upon contacting the Culver police department over this incident, a South Bend state trooper received no positive verification. Of all UFO reports gathered, this Culver sighting was the only one that res:eived no verrfication. 

Pablo Casals dead at 96 
San Juan, P.R., UPI -Cellist Pablo Casals, 96, one of the cen­tury's greatest string players, was in critical condition today with a heart attack and lung com­plications. His wife, Marta, 36, was at his hospital bedside. 
Casals was struck by a heart attack Sept. 30 as he played dominos at the home of a friend. 
Casals was born in the Catalonian town of Vendrell, near Barcelona, Spain, Dec. 29, 1876. He began playing violin and piano and composing at age 5.-_ 
In 1957 he initiated the Casals 
Festival here, and that same year 
married "Martita," then 21, one of 
his students. He was 80. 
MAIN CHURCH SUNDA~Y MASSES 
5:15pm Sat. Fr. Robert Griffin, C. S.C. 9:30a.m. Sun. Fr. Ollie Williams, C.S.C. 
10:45 a.m. Sun. Fr. Giles Peter, C.S.C. 
12:15 p.m. Sun. Fr. Bill Toohey, C.S.C. 
When your pore~nts ore in town, hove hem stay in South Bend's NEWEST Hotel 


:Rogal&ui 
316 S. Sl Joseph Rese"ations: (219) 282·251 1 
WEEKEND SPE:CIALS AVAILABLE 
For dining, visit our 
JOLLY KING RESTAURANT 
1nd afterwards hit the "in spot" in town 
THE PURPLE JESTER DISCOTHEQUE LOUNGE. 
Dancing under psychedelic lights 
Open ll a.m.-~2a.m. Mon.-Sat. 
what I see. It was no moon and it was no balloon and it was no ship." 
At the College of the Ozarks in Clarksville, Ark., a "ghost-like bearded creature with long, gray hair who foams at the mouth" has been seen by students and faculty members. But that creature has been hiding for four days. 
"He was last seen Friday behind McLean Hall," said Vernon McDaniel, a college official. Mrs. Fritz Ehren, wife of the vice president of academic affairs and two watchmen also said the saw the monster. 

Blots at the Raleigh County Airport at Beckley, W.Va., saw a mysterious night flyer that turned red, then green, then white. 
"It just kept moving away from me," said one pilot who chased the object in a small plane. "I couldn't get any closer. I don't think it was an airplane because the whole thing would change color at the same time." 
Other reported UFO sighting s came from Gulfport and Meridian, Miss. 
Sails each September & February. This is the way you've always wanted to learn . and should. Combine accredited study with a fascinating semester of travel to Africa, Austral­asia, the Orient, and the Americas. Over 8500 students from •\50 colleges have already participated. Financial aid is available. Write now for free catalog: 
WCA, Chapman College Box 1000, Orange, CA 92666 
Wed. & Thurs. nite during the game.... 
Large Sausage 
Pizza 


$2.00 


notre dame concerts -student union present A&M recording artist 


RICK ROBERTS 
(formerly of The Flying Burrito Brothers) 
in a free concert 
Friday, Oct. 26 at 8:00 
in the Little Theatre of St. Mary's College 





World Series Special 

----~------~-­
-
------·------..--------­
---~----­
Wednesday, October 17, 1973 the observer 


r-----~ 

Tom Clements--consistently cool 
by John Fineran 
Notre Dame's offense has drawn much criticism this fall for its inability to score consistently. Many times this young season, the Irish have failed to score because of many key breakdowns and turnovers. 
Other football teams would have lost their first four games by making similar mistakes. One of the reasons Notre Dame has won their first four is Tom Clements, the 6-0, 185 lb. junior quarterback from McKee's Rock, Pa. 
Clements is quite aware of the criticism, but he has a sufficient answer for it. "People fail to realize that we are a young team on offense," he says. "Frank Pomarico, Gerry DiNardo and Dave Casper were our only players experienced before the season on the line. 
"It took a while for the new people to coordinate with them. They are just coming around right now after those two tough wins against Purdue and Michigan State." 
Still, Clements thinks the youth has helped the Irish. "I think everyone tries to do his best. We all try to help one another. We're enthusiastic for each other." 
And the Irish and their fans are enthusiastic about Clements. Noted for his running ability, Clements is also a dnagerous roll­out passer. Northwestern coach Johnny Pont can attest to this point. 
Playing only the first half against the Wildcats, Clements threw for 152 yards on nine of 12 completions, including one for a touchdown. "Clements really hurt us with those passes in the flat," a dejected Pont said after Notre Dame's 44-0 opening victory. 
Clements is also noted for his accuracy throwing to his left. The most difficult pass to throw for any right-handed quarterback is the one to his left. It is the most dif­ficult, that is, for all quarterbacks except Clements. 
"When you are rolling out, you have to remember to square your shoulders," he says. "It is a lot easier to the right side." 
In the Michigan State game, Clements was a big factor in the Notre Dame 14-0 lead at halftime. Spartan coach Dennis Stolz realized this. 
"The defensive adjustments we made at halftime were to use our linebackersmore," he said. "We had to get a pass rush on Clements." 
We could not contain him. He 
ND students slate 
ice hockey travels 
The Notre Dame student hockey club will hold sign-ups for its Michigan State bus trip on November tonight in the Grace Well from 7 -10 p.m. Mem­berhsips in the club will also be on sale for the price of $1.00. For further information , contact either Chuck (6981) or Bob (3829). 
The Irish hockey cheerleaders are looking for any student musicians who would be willing to play at Notre Dame contests. If interested, call Bethann McGregor (6777). 

RESEARCH 
Thousands of Topics $2.75 per page Send for your up-to-date, 160-page, mail order catalog. Enclose $1.00 to cover postage (delivery time is 
1 to 2 days). RESEARCH ASSISTANCE, INC. 11941 WILSHIRE BLVD., SUITE #2 
LOS ANGELES, CALIF. 90025 (213) 477-8474 or 477-5493 Our research material is sold for research assistance only. 
was particularly effective on the eliminate them. "It is just a matter broken plays and scramble of execution and judgement," he situations." says. "That's what I have to work 
It was one of those "defensive on." adjustments" that led to the Obviously, Clements gave it Spartans only touchdown of the much of his attention last week aftermoon. Clements rolled right before the Rice encounter because on a third-and-long situation deep not one of his passes was in-in Notre Dame territory. As his tercepted. In fact, he threw a 21 pass sailed toward a waiting Eric yard TD pass to tight end Dave Penick, MSU linebacker Ray Casper. Nester intercepted and returned Still, it was Clements' running the ball into the Irish endzone. ability that boiled the Rice 
Clements has been criticized for defenders and their coach AI his throwing mistakes, but he Conover. 
knows what he has to do to "Clements is really a slippery 

Junior QB Tom Clements takes aim on Army's defensive secon­dary. Clements and the Irish "0" performed solidly in last weeks win over Rice. 

Starts Friday 
WINNER: "Best Picture of 1973" Atlantic Film Festival 
More trom the nu~ken of 'FRITZ THI! CAT' 
"The humor is abundant . ..and almost certain to hike the blood pressure of the unprepared ...Powelful it is and the power is raw." -Charles Champlin 
Los Angeles Tlmea 
"Ralph Bakshi's idea of merging real characters into cartoons and vice­versa is done with brilliance! Visuals of undeniablystunning power."

-Archer Wlnsten 
New York Post 
"'Heavy Traffic' ... sophisticated work that brilliantly breaks many previous rules of animation ...the graphics are astounding ..." 
-Newsweek 
"...as brilliant as anything in recent movies." 
New York Times



-RogerG~nspun:~~~~~~~~~~l! 
Rated X 

lfs like nothing ~....-~you've ever seen before! 
' ' :: .' ~ . 
runner, he said of the performance still concentrating on each game. which left the junior only one-yard "And that means Army this short of the century mark. Saturday," he emphasized. "They 
The way the season has been are well-conditioned and they going for the Irish thus far this come to play. season, there is indeed optimism, "Any time you play a service especially as far as Southern Cal is academy, you're in for a tough concerned. But Clements is talking game," he concluded. the games one at a time. Notre Dame has won four games 
"I think everyone has been this season, and with attitudes like pointing toward Southern Cal all Tom Clements, they will win many year," he says. "We know more. There are six games left in however, if we lose any game~ 1973, and if the Irish win them all, prior to or after the game, beating alot of the credit will go to Tom them will mean nothing. So we are Clements. It will be deserved. 
,-----....:..:...==-~=....::.::.....:..:..:....::.:::...::_....:.:.:.=.=.:::..:.....:.:.....:.:.::::.....:..::.==:...:..:::.::.:.~ 

CLASSIFIED ADS 
FOR RENT 

Large, one BR apt. Completely remodelled and furniShed with full kitchen. Utilities paid. $135 mo. Call 232-6622 days only , ask for Jim. 
2 room apt. for rent. Cali after 5 pm 288-9533. 
1 BR apt. 803 Portage. Stove, refrigerator + utilities fur­nished. 256-0111. 
RIDES WANTED 

Need ride to Deloit or Grosse Pointe Wednesday afternoon. Cali Chris at 6586. 
Need ride to Cincy Thurs. Will pay expenses. Cali 1027. 
Help! Need ride to Newarkk, Del. (U of Del.) for oct. break. Share expenses. Andy 1623. 
Need ride to Colubus Oct. 19. Cali 5723. 
Need ride to Cleveland after LSAT (1:30pm or sol Oct. 20. Will share expenses. Cali Art 8539. 
Want ride to PGH Thurs. Will pay. Cali Bob 3451. 
FOR SALE 

Yamha guitar FG 300(original retail price $300) rosewood, inlaid pearl, adjustable bridge, hardshell case, excellent condition. Call David 8427. 
2 USC lix. Highest bid. By 10­25. 272-8069. 
Pontiac Bonneville con­vertible, Power steering, + brakes, newer engine, $2000 or best offer. Cali 282-1049. 
Chairs $3 up ; couches 10 up. Free delivery to dorm call Mrs. Cooper 272-3004. 
!>5 thunderford, power and air, excellent condition, $875 call Mrs. Cooper 272-3004. 
70 Fiat 124 sport coupe, 5-speed low milage $1725. can Mrs. Cooper 272-3004. 
Guild bass guitar. semihard shellcase. Call Jim 1409. 
31• GA's Air force, 233-4557 before 10 am, after 12:30 pm. 
NOTICES 

Minor repairs on Electrical appliances . Sid's Canary Repair. Cheap. 24 hr. Service. 130 Howard, 6173. 
Will do typing.Term papers, manuscripts, etc. Call 2336909. 
Morrisey Loan Fund can loan up to $150 at 1 percent interest, 
1 day waiting period. 
Basement of La Fortune 11:15­
12:15 Mon-fri. 
TH EOMBUDSMAN SERVICE WILL SUSPEND OPERATIONS ON WED. OCT 17 at Jpm FOR SEMESTER BREAK AND WILLL RESUME SERVICE ON OCT 23 AT NOON. 
GSu Social Committee is looking for members. Be a PBpoc; fringe benefits. retirement plan, etc. Call Paul B. at 6615 or 272-7405. 
Flanner's America open nightly over break. Thurs, Sun, Mon, 8-12, Fri, Sat 8-2. 
Frodo crosses the Ford of Bruluen and finds sanctuary in Rivendell. ~-. _._.,_ .: ~. ~ wanted 
I am going to be disowned unless I get 3-4 GA tix -for my father for any game but Air Force. Will pay $$. call 4077. 
Desperately need GA tix for the Army and Navy games. Cali 1364. 
NEED NAVY TIX Judy 4970. 
Need 2 or more GA USC tix. Cali Nick 7920. 
Scalpers-me again. USC tix GA or Stud. Sharon 287-4003 please. 
Need USCtix. Please call Dan at 282-1568. 
Desperately need 8 stud. USC tix. Will meet inflationary demands. Call Pat. 288-5563. 
Need 1 or2 GA Navy tix. Call Jack 233·2752. 
Will trade cash and-or 4th row section C Paul Simon tix for decent Carpenter tix. (Ineed 2 or 4). Call 234-7082. 
Need 2-4 GA Navy tix. Cali Frank 8826 after 8 pm. 
Desperately need 3 GA USC tix. Call 7835 now. 
Need 2 Navy tix. Cali Jeff 1137. 
Desperately need 6-10 GA USC tix. Will pay good money. Cali 4773 or 1654. 
Secretarial help wanted full time, background in photography. Cll C.P. Arm­strong 288-2367.Ext. 56. 
Pay $22 for GA usc tix. Call Lary 1072. 
Desperatly need 4 GA tix Navy. Will pay. Cali Joe 3274. 
Need 2 GA Navy tix. Will pay$$. Call 3129. 
Openings for grad student with past supervisory experience in food service dept. Approx. 20 hrs. week. Apply Per­sonneii.Brownson Hall ND. 
Army tix needed. Cali Gene at 3647. 
Beginner needs inexpensive guitar. Call 5749. 
Want 7 GA. USC tix. Call CHick at 232-8594 or 6392. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost Navy wai let between huddle and circle. Call Kathy 
4554. 

Black Mutt found in Flanner area. Call 1409. 
Lost White Gold N D ring. Initials BMP. $10 reward. Cali 1868. 
Found Stud. football Iicker in D-1 parking lot. Please identify. Cal I John 3302. 
PERSONALS 
Dear College Girl. Happy 18th birthday, Mary Anne. Dont lose the gift. Love , Mommy, Daddy, Ginger, and George. 
. -.. 
i'• 
.. 


~-------~-----­
~~ -----------------~-----­
~ 
Wednesday, October 17, 1973

t • 12 the observer r 

Army next for undefeated Irish 
by Vic Dorr the Irish are 4-0. The Cadets' most by four returning lettermen: co­Sports Editor recent setback came last week captain Skip Whitman, a 6-0, 210­against Penn State (coach Tom pound linebacker, junior tackle It's often been said that there's Cahill's club absorbed a 54-3 Neil Begley (6-5, 244), cornerback l9lovelier place to watch a college drubbing), while Notre Dame, on Jim Cisek (6-2, 190), and outside ootball game than the campus of the other hand, displayed signs of linebacker Dave Melton (6-0, 215). lie United States Military offensive perkiness and defensive Injuries, as Parseghian in­l,cademy. consistency while blanking the dicated, may be a factor in West Point and upstate New Rice Owls, 28-0. Saturday's game, but the Irish ,·ork at the peak of autumn, the "We showed definite im­coach will have to consider injuries 
tearby Hudson River, the massed provement in our game with to both clubs. Army's defensive 'orps of Cadets, and quaint, cozy Rice," observed ND's head coaeh. co-<:aptain is a questionable starter ,(ichie Stadium all combine to 'For the first time in three games because of a banged-up knee, and 11ake Army's home weekends--in we put together two good, solid sophomore defensive back AI lteir own way--nearly as distinc­halves of football. I'm pleased Staerkel was hampered last week 've as those in South Bend, with that kind of improvement, because of a mild shoulder -:noxville, or Baton Rouge. and I hope to see it continue." separation. But the Cadets And on Saturday afternoon, Parseghian's plans for continued received good news from their :.:hen Ara Parseghian takes a improvement include this week's training room, too. Defensive ;otre Dame football team into clash with Army, and Ara, ever­tackle Ernie Chachere, a starter in 
,vest Point for the first time since cautious, is working to ward off last year's clash with the Navy,!922, one of Army's home any Irish let-downs. saw slight action against Georgia Neekends will take on more than "Army has been an up-and-down Tech, a heavier load against Penn 
i1e color of the "Long Gray Line," ball club," he said. "They lost to State, and may see even more duty md more than the color of the Georgia Tech in Atlanta, 14-10, in a against the Irish. ;nrrounding fall foliage. It will game they could easily have won. 
Notre Dame's medical outlook is
'Ike on the color of one of college They were riddled by Penn State, 
not so encouraging. Frank
JOtball's oldest and most fabled but comparative scores really 
Pomarico, a pre-season All­·ivalries. don't mean anything. I have a American guard who has yet to seeNotre Dame began playing the very clear memory of last October, time this year because of an injury
J\cademy way back in 1913, and the when we played Missouri after 
to the ligaments in his ankle, may
;eries, from that starting point, they'd been beaten one week see action
limited against the
.'Ontinued more-or-less regularly earlier by Nebraska, 62-0. 
Cadets, but beyond Pomarico the
Lllltil 1970, when the Cadets took a "Then Missouri came in here, news is all bad.
three-year hiatus from the Irish and upset us in our own stadium. 
Steve Niehaus, Notre Dame's The Irish defense has fa ired well on the road this year, allowing just
'>Chedule. But now they're back, So we certainly aren't going to take sophomore All-American can­one TD in eight periods of play. Here, Luther Bradley thwarts a'!lld in three days, in West Point's this Army team lightly. They have didate at defensive tackle, suffered Purdue thrust with an acrobatic interception.
Michie Stadium, Notre Dame and an excellent quarterback in 
a knee tear in the Rice game and
-\rmy will play football for the Kingsley Kink and in Barry Arm­
has been lost for the duration of the
<Jrty-first time. strong they have both a fine 
'73-'74 campaign. Niehaus un­
Nineteen-seventy three's receiver and return man. And 
derwent surgery earlier this week, 
·enewal of the ND-Army series, Army had several players hurt 
and ND team physicians are
.ilough, will lack in glamor what it during the course of the game with 
Captain's Corner
waiting to see whether Tom
-:as in color. Irish fans once looked Penn State, and as a result Bolger,
we Pomarico's replacement
~the Cadets with all the wariness could see several personnel 
at offensive guard, will also 
'OW reserved for opponents such changes." 
require knee surgery as the result 
3S Southern Cal and Michigan But those changes won't involve 
of an injury sustained in Houston. 
~ate, but things have changed the Cadets' air attack, where Fink 
But Ara is satisfied with the
;ince the late '40's and 'SO's. and Armstrong, prior to their run­Notre Dame 28, Rice 0. That's u,e kind of game I like to see Notre Dame 
status of the rest of his players,
The two teams have met four in with Penn State, were ranked play. It was like old times for the Irish offense, who had over 100 snaps
players
imes since Ara Parseghian has among the nation's leaders. Fink and he'll take those to West Point on Friday afternoon in from ~enter and a total performance of over 500 yards.
_,een Notre Dame's head coach, (6-0, 186) was rated 9th in passing 
preparation for the 41st renewal of
;nd in those four meetings the and lOth in total offense, Arm­Defensively, we shutout the Owls and held them to about 150 yards. This 
the series with the Military
rish have outscored the strong (6-2, 210) was second in all­was a greatvictoryfor Notre Dame, for the South wanted a part of us.
Academy.
1eleaguered Cadets 148-10. purpose running (which includes We met their challenge, however, and stuck it in their ears. And this year's confrontation both pass receptions and kickoff And then, at 2:00 p.m. on 
Saturday, in front of a Michie The ga~1e, ho~eve~, .was very costly. First, Tom Bolger popped his :etween the two clubs has all the returns), and flanker Jim Ward (6­knee and IS out mdef1mtely. Second, Steve Niehaus tore up his kneenarkings of another on-paper 0, 190) the offensive co-<:aptain, Stadium sellout crowd of 41,482, pretty good for the second consecutive year. Steve was operated on11ismatch. Army will bring an 0-4 was ranked fourth in receiving. Notre Dame and the Army will Monday and is doing fine. This has to be a very depressing time for both -ecord into Saturday's game, while Defensively, the Cadets are led play football again. 
of these guys, but they are very stong people and will overcome their misfortunes. 
About injuries, Ara stated at a team meeting, "We have to regroup our

Digger's cagers begin Year III 
te.am and keep going. Life is full of disappointments and one has to live w1th them and strive to accomplish his goals." 
Digger Phelps opened his third named by the coaching staff as the and can be expected to see action. 
Injuries are tough for players to take both physically and mentallymd most promising season as top defensive player last year. Junior Tom Varga (South Bend) Today I ~ould.li~e. to tell you what happens to a ball player before he is'iotre Dame basketball coach Novak led the 1971-72 Irish with a helped lead the Irish attack early 
last season before sustaining an hurt, while he Is tnJured, and after he is healed. 
'londay when practice for the 1973-19.5 average, but dropped off to ~4 campaign began for tryouts at 12.8 ppg last year while taking in injury, shelving him for the To. begin with, you feel fine on and off the field. The big season is 1t 4:30 p.m. and for Scholarship 9.8 rebounds per game. season. ~ommg up, and you ~ave work~ hard all all summer long, trying to get :»ayers at 7:30. Guard Gary Brokaw (New Phelps might also get some help m shape. After the first week, It all seems to have paid off. 
from six freshmen. Frontline
Phelps greeted all five starters Brunswick, N.J.) was another Then comes Saturday, September 1, and the first scrimmage of the
candidates will
md six reserves from last year's potent scorer last season. He who battle the pre~eason. Both the offense and defense look good. Then on the third
finished with a 17.4 average and in cum bents include Adrian
'iational Invitational Tournament senes, y~u pull out to block, the end and during the block, you are hit
Dantley <Washington, D.C.), Bill
·unner-up team, and a cluster of 50 led the regulars in free throw fr?m behmd. Slowly but surely, you feel your ankle ripping. the next 
Paterno (Lincroft, N.J.) and Toby 
Yalk-on tryouts--a group which percentage. 
thmg you know, doc~ors, trai~ers and c.oach~s are huddled over you, but 
Knight (Port Jefferson, N.Y.).
acluded four Notre Dame coeds. Guard Dwight Clay (Pittsburgh) all you see of them IS the outlme of their bodies against the sun. 
and forward Peter Crotty (Rock­Three other freshmen will press"I was extremely proud of our the returning guards. They are That night, you are sitting in your room with a full leg cast on and you ;!layers last season," says Phelps. ville Centre, N.Y.) rounded out the Ray Martin (Long Island City, c~n 't belie~e what has ~ranspired that day. The doctors say fro~ four to'There was never a time when Notre Dame starters. Clay an "quar­(Centereach, s1x weeks m a cast which means you'll miss the first four or five games .bey gave up· hope in themselves. became effective N.Y.), Bill Drew (South You feel depressed, drained emotionally, and tired of life.Ve got off to a slow start but that's terback" after the first month of N.Y.) and Dave Kuzmicz of. the season. 
Bend). w1th no meaning as to why YOU got hurt. 
.o be expected playing with four the season and led the team in 'Ophomores and a junior against assists with his clever passing. His "We feel we now have nine or 10 Still, life goes on and days turn into weeks. Finally, the day comes ·ae kind of teams we faced. Our fall-away jumper with four players who can totally commit to when they take the cast off your ankle. You notice that your leg is .chedule this year is just as dif­seconds left won the Marquette our goals," says Phelps. "Our smaller than the other one, but you are determined to show everyone that icult but we've got people back game and a 25-footer at the bu:zzer entire starting team returns and you are back. 
we promising
;ho are better equipped from their sent the Pittsburgh game into have some fresh­There are no more casts, no carts to take you around. You can walk
overtime. Crotty matured, too, men. This will enable us to be
-xperiences last season." by yourself, and you begin to enjoy life again. Your ankle hurts 
season and grabbed 203 much more flexible. I hope we can
Those people include center John over the ~owever, and it swells when you walk. But, day to day working on it
now run more, press more and be
:humate <Elizabeth, N.J.), who rebounds while scoring eight tmpr?v~s t~e .ankle. Soon, you can run and you want to get back so bad 
vas named the Most Valuable points per game. His play the last stronger on the boards. We should that 1t 1s kilhng you.
month was a major factor in Notre have the personnel to cope with our'layer in the NIT last season. 
challenging schedule--one of the Finally! th~ week has come. Your ankle,although not like it was before'The Shue" was the team's top Dame's outstanding showing. 
nation's most competitive." you hurtit, ls.good.enoughtoplayon. Onceagain, youare happy, you.corer (21.0 ppg) and top Roger Anderson (St. Paul, Minn.) missed four crucial weeks Notre Dame will meet national start to see ~hmgs different. Just the simplest things about football areebounder 02.2 rpgl. He broke the 
champs UCLA home-and-away now appreciated more than before. Your are now again part of the
iotre Dame single-season field at the beginning of his freshman .oal percentage record held by season but is expected to give the again this season. In addition to Notre Dame football team. lUStin Carr (.555) by connecting Irish support at either forward or the Bruins, Indiana, Kentucky, . As I ~it in my ~o?m! autum~ ~nocking at my door, I try to show you a n 257 of 434 attempts ( .592). That center this year. Myron Schuck­Marquette, and South Carolina--all little b1t of what 1t 1s hke to be IDJured. For you see, the character in this nark included a nine-for-nine man <McCracken, Kan.) is another NCAA Tournament participants story is Frank Pomarico and I am ready to play again. I hope to be 
last year--appear on the schedule,
tight against Louisville in the NIT sophomore who can fill in at the out there this Saturday. md his first 11 against North same two positions. as do Big Ten contenders Ohio Football is a challenge for every injured player, and an injury haunts 
Seniors Chris Stevens State . and Michigan State,
~arolina for a 20-for-20 streak. you until you are back. 
defendmg Southern Conference
Gary Novak (LaSalle, Ill.), one (Washington, D.C.), Ken Wolbeck 
'Yith this week comes another challenge for Notre Dame -the Black ,f just four seniors on the roster, <Peoria, Ill.) and Greg Schmelzer champion Davidson, Atlantic Kmg~ts of the H.udson. Notre Dame must win to keep its record un­.vill probably start at forward for (Park Ridge, 1..) have all had Coast powerhouse Duke and Big blenushed, to wm the National Championship. GO IRISH BEAT
Eight contender Kansas.
he third straight season. He was game experience at the low post ARMY. ' 








