OD The Inside 
lettuce boycott ...page 3 letters to the editor ... page 10 

serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VII No. 115 
Monday, April 16, 1973 

Student Trustees, pass-fail options to be considered 
by David Kaminski Staff Reporter 
Proposals for both faculty and student representation on the Board of Trustees will be reviewed by the University Ac!ldemic Council at its next meetmg, ac­cording to Ed Ellis, student representative on the Council. 
The faculty proposal came from a Faculty Senate resolution o~ last March requesting membership of six faculty members on the Board of Trustees. 
The proposal for stude~t representation came from Ed Eilts on behalf of Student Government. The Ellis proposal would seat three students on the Board of Trustees with full voting power for an ex­perimental period of one full year. 
1) The Student Body President 
2) One advanced student appointed by the University President with the approval of the President of the Graduate Student Union. 
3) One undergraduate student appointed by the President of the University with the approval of the Student Body President. 
The Academic Council has no real authority over whether either proposal is sent to the Board of Trustees, but Ellis believes that Council approval would add credibility to the request. 
"The Academic Council is one of the most widely representative bodies in the university. Approval by the Council would mean s~pport by the university commumty of student and faculty membership on the Board of Trustees. If the Council turned down the proposals, we would probably consider the insufficient support by the com­munity and drop the matter there," Ellis said. 
Valerie Gaus, a law student and member of the Academic Council, gave her rationale for support of both proposals. 
"It is argued that the Board of Trustees is not supposed to be a representative body, b~t _a body concerned with the pubhc mterest of the university. I believe that faculty and students could. add. to the public interest of the umverstty as community members and members of a changing society. And in effect, the Trustees are a representative body since the administration is represented on it." 


Ellis: Academic Council is widely representative of the University. 
Gaus went on to say, "A lot of students feel a sense of powerlessness because matters of student life are ultimately removed from them to the level of the Board of Trustees. With student membership, the students would at least feel that they are being heard by those who ultimately run the university." 
Rosini: Originated dropping of pass-fail option. 
by Bill Sohn Staff Reporter 
The University Grade Com­
mittee has voted to extend the 
pass-fail option indefinitely, to 
allow the pass-fail designation to 
be dropped within four weeks of 
the end of the semester, and to 
keep the minimum acceptable 
freshman average at 1.7. 
The proposals will go to the 
Academic Council for final ap­
proval. 
Neil Rosini, who originated the proposal allowing the dropping of the pass-fail option, explained that the pass-fail option was designed to allow students to do some ex­ploring, which they are not doing under the present system. Since graduate and law schools are becoming more grade point average conscious, many students are not using>. the pass-fail option. 
He also stated that seventy.Jfive per cent of the students using pass­fail earn a grade of B-or better and ten percent earn an A. He added that the proposed system only gives a student what he has already earned. 
The proposal to raise the minimum freshman average to a 
2.0 was defeated. Information from the registrar revealed that 80 of the 144 freshmen who receive<1 bet­ween a 1.700 and a 1.999 in one semester last year, received higher than a 1.999 first semester this year. 
When questioned about the pass­fail proposal, Edward Ellis of the Grade Committee commented, "It's a good idea." 
The members of the Grade Committee are Dean of Ad­ministration, Arts and Letters College Dean Fredrick Crosson, Dean Thomas Murphy of the Business College, Dean Bernard Waldman of the College of Science, Mr. Edward Ellis, Mr. Alfred Giuffrida, Mr. Richard Sullivan, registrar, and Assistant Provost William Burke. 
For the first time ever, Notre Dame's jazz 
the country in presenting a weekend of 
combo performed in the ND College Jazz 
good music. <Photo by Mike Budd,
Festival. They joined schools from around 
Graduate Student Union elects Lavage, Mueller 

by William Murplty Staff Reporter 
Bill Lavage has been elected the President of the Graduate Student Union. 
Lavage, running on a platform basically concerned with graduate students' rights, defeated Paul Bolduc for the presidency. 
In the vice-presidential balloting, Ann Mueller defeated Jim Zafiran, while Sue Foley ran uncontested for the office of secretary-treasurer. 
According to Bro. Mark Ratkus, coordinator of the GSU election, a discussion _of a proposal con­cerning student representation on the Board of Trustees took place at Friday's GSU meeting. However no concensus concerning the proposal was reached among those 
GSU President Bill Lavage 
Baba Ram Dass, author of 
Remember; Be Here Now, will lecture in Washington Hall on April 24 at 8:00p.m. The event, which is free, is sponsored by the Student Union Academic Commission. 
members attending. 


Equal rights for wo1nen ... see page 5 



the observer Monday, April 16, 1973 

warld briefs 

<Washin~t?nl-Preside~t Nixon has announced his plans for an exte~ded VISit to Europe m the fall. Nixon did not say precisely when he will ~eave, no.r specifically where he will go. But he dropped a broad hmt ~at 1t will be a "g~and tour." This indicates a swing thro~gh maJor European capitals. Newsmen talked with the President after a White House wotship service. 
~ <Pin~ Ridge: South n~~:kotaJ-There are unconfirmed reports of 
,poradJc shootmg today m the beleaguered reservation village of 
~ounded Kn~. One_farmer also says four armed men went to his 
. anch earl~ th1s ~o~mng and drove off several head of cattle. A group 
rJf Oglala S10ux md1ans are maintaining a roadblock vowing to k 
a~ ~ood and supplies out of the hamlet. However, an' attorney for:~ 
m1h_tants holdmg Wounded Knee says he will seek a court d 
agamst the blockade. or er 
<P~nom _PenhJ--An eight vessel convoy carrying badly needed supphes sailed up he _Mekong River today into Pnom Penh. It is the last of a 19-vessel fl?bl!a ass.embled_in South Vietnam two weeks ago. Thousands of the c1ty s residents hned the riverbanks waving flags and balloons as the ships sailed into port. 
an campu• tadiiY 

1:00-5:00 pm--daily adoration of the blessed sacrament, 
corby hall chapel. 3:30pm--colloquium, "turbulent free convection" by dr. robert cheese~right, room 303, engineering bldg. 
7:00 pm--meetmg, flying club, faa speaker, rm. 12, aerospace bldg. 
7:30 pm--r;nexic~n-american series, "testing, both i.q. '!nd vocational mterest~aptitude," by dr. john garcia, hb. aud . 8:00pm--concert, james taylor, tickets $5.50,$3.00, a.c.c. 
8:00 
pm--film, civilization series, "the fallacies of hope," university club. 

8:00 
pm--lecture, george plimpton, washington hall. 


8:00 
pm--lecture,"patriotic mob before the american revolution," by dr. patrick furlong, carroll hall, made leva. 

8:00 
pm--meeting, celtic society, international room Ia fortune basement. · ' 


8:15 pm--organ recital, catherine johnson, sacred heart church. 
SMC announces 

Tucson progralll begins this fall 
for the program and will provide 
resident and dining facilities forMary's reached a decision that will such areas as the Grand Canyon 
the participating' young women.enable the College to offer its and Mexico.  
The Sahauro Vista Guest Ranchstudents an off-campus program in Announcement of the director of  
will be available to the studf;nts for Tucson, Arizona. the Tucson Program will be for­ 
recrational activities.The Tucson Program was thcoming from Dr. Edward L.  
The semester curriculum willstudied and recommended to Dr. Henry. 
work on a two-quarter system,Edward L. Henry, President of  
with emphasis on the varihus andSaint Mary's College, . by the  
unique southwestern areas ofCollege's Planning Process. The  
study. The first quarter ' will bePlanning Process consists of all  
comprised of Southwest History, College constituencies par­ 
Desert Biology, and SociorCultural ticipating in the planning of the  
Aspects of the Southwest. Thefuture for Saint Mary's College.  
second quarter will treat specificDr. Henry, upon recom­ 
areas such as art, studentmendation of the Planning Com­ 
teaching, and southwesternmittee, recommended the Tucson  '  
community studies. It will alsoProgram to the College's Board of  
allow for independent studies byRegents.  
the students. All courses will beDr. Henry stated, "With this new  
applied to the students' credits for program, all Saint Mary's students  
graduation from Saint Mary'swill have the opportunity to par­ 
College.ticipate in a unique educational.­ 
Professors for the courses will be social-spiritual experience which  '  
selected from the Tucson area andwill provide them with a distinc­ 
approved by the participatingtive and exciting alternative to the  
departments of Saint Mary'sregular Saint Mary's College  
College. Resources availablesemester."  
include the University of ArizonaBeginning in the Fall of 1973, it is  
the Arizona-Sonora Desertplanned that twenty different  
Museaum the Arizona Statestudents from Saint Mary's  
Museam on the campus of theCollege will participate in the  
University of Arizona. Theprogram each semester. The  
students' experience will be fur-Tucson "campus" will include use  
of facilities at Picture Rocks Retreat House and the Sahauro The Observer Is publiShed dallv  
Vista Guest Ranch. The "cam­during the college semester except  
vacations bv the stuelents of thepus" is approximately twenty  
University of Notre Dame and St. 
minutes from center cityTucsonlin Mllrv's College. Subscriptions 
the rolling foothills of the Tucson mllv be purchased tor se per  
Mountains. semester IS14 per vearl from The  
Observer Box Q, Notre Dame.The retreat house, which is  
Indiana 46556. Second class 
conducted by the Redemptorist post~~ge paid, Notre Dame, Ind.  
Fathers, will be the headquarters 46556.  

The Board of Regents of Saint 

ther enhanced with side trips to 
WHAT'S YOUR GIRL BACK HOME 
1 DOING TONIGHT? I 
Long distance still is the next-best thing to being 
THE NOTRE DAME-SAINT MARY'S THEATRE 

YOU'RE A GOOD ~AN CHARLIE BROWN 
Clark-Gesner's musical entertainment based on the comic strip Peanuts by Charles M. Schultz 
April 26,27,28,29 at 8:30 pm May 3,4,5,6 at 8:30pm April 28 and May 5 at 2:30 pm Students-Faculty-Staff $2.00 Reservations: 284-4176 

-



@ Indiana Bell 





FWU laces Teamster-grower collusion 
by Luis C. Jaramillo 

The efforts of Cesar Chavez and the nited Farm Workers Union (UFW) to 
ganize agricultural workers has en­
untered resistance from a rival union as ell as from farm owners. 
In a near unanimous vote (6 to 1), the alifornia Supreme Court in the case of nglund v. Chavez, (Supp., 105 Cal. Rptr. 21, 504 p.2d 457 (1972) ruled that the rowers and the Teamsters Union had "oined forces without the consent of the orkers themselves to try to stop an rganizing campaign by 1Cesar Chavez's 
AFL-CIO United Farm Workers Union. Finding collusion among the Teamster's Union and a group of growers, the state 
upreme Court decision upheld the charge by Chavez that the union dispute was not merely a question of "jurisdiction." 
The December 29, 1972 ruling by the court is one of the first cases in which a 
ajor union has been found by a State Supreme Court to have been working with an employer group to help the employer keep out another union... 
The decision stemmed from an attempt by the growers to get a court order preventing Chavez's farm workers union from striking, picketing or demonstrating against the growers who signed contract with the Teamsters Union. 
The growers argued that any strike at­tempt by the farm works union was· in 
-violation of California's Jurisdictional Strike Act, which prevents strikes that trap innocent employers in the middle of a battle be~ween two legitimate unions. 
The court, responding to contentions by the growers, found: ·1. "on the,same day(July 24, 1970) that the Teamsters Union made its demand on growers for recognition as bargaining agent for the farmworkers, the growers granted such recognition ... there is no 
. suggestion in the record that the growers before taking such a step, attempted to -ascertain whether their respective field workers desired to be represented by the Teamsters, or, indeed that the question·of their field workers' preference was even raised as a relevant consideration." 
2. Shortly thereafter, the Teamsters and about 45 growers signed five-year con­tracts giving the Teamsters exclusive right to represent the farmworkers. 
-"Once again, there is no indication that any thought was given to the possible wishes of the field workers whose interests were purportedly to be represented by the Teamsters," stated the Court. 
3. "During the first few weeks of August -when the rank and file workers were ·finally advised of the agreements 
negotiated on their behalf, most of the workers refused to either join tbe Teamseers Union or to ratify the Gro~r­Teamster agreements." 
-4. "Although there is soml dispute as to· the precise number or percentage fAvoring the Teamsters or the UFW, iUappears clear that by mid-August, at least a sub­
-stantial number, and probably 1a lllajority 
· ·of field workers desired bo betrepresented · -by UFW and expressed n.o.idesire to have · -the Teamsters representlthem." 
The court concluded it would be wrong to let an employer use the power "of state law to keep out a "union hired by his em­ployees" by simply granting exclusive bargaining status to a union he knows is not representative of the workers. 
"From a practical point of view, an -employer's grant of exclusive \bargaining status to a nonrepresentative union must' be considered the ultimate form of favoritism, completely substituting the employer's choice of union for his em­ployee's desires," declared the Court. 
By reversing a lower court decision of 1 the Monterey County Superior Court and , dissolving the injunction against UF­WUpicketing against the growers, the California Supreme Court rejected claims · by the Teamsters' Union that their dispute with UFWU is merely "jurisdictional." 
The decision asserts the farmworkers' right to union representatives of their own choosing. This they have done, as the California Supreme Court notes, by rejecting the Teamsters Union and joining the United Farm Workers Union in sub­stantial numbers. 
Supports UFWU 

Census results told


THE OBSERVER 

Boycott News/ Analysis 
Monday, April 16, 1973 
Page 3 


Fr. Juan Romero, director of P.A.D.R.E.S., appeared in the library auditorium last Thursday and described a census he helped conduct this month in the migrant farm labor fields of Ca..lifornia. 
The census, said Fr. Romero,lrevealed overwhelming support of the United ,Farm Workers Union (UFW) by the ·farm workers themselves, a fact that anti~UFW propagandists continually wish: to -deny jot their ~ffort to destroy the lettuce boycott's rising momentum. · 
The survey was taken by ·a bilingual interfaith group of twenty-five persons: The group consisted of church and lay persons, including several C~gressman. Group members spoke· with ap­proximately 1000 farm workers in migrant labor ~amps and asked for their positions regarding unionization. According to Fr. Romero, "We made every effort to assure objectivicy. No one of us was pushing any particular response." 
The result of the surveyshowed that 795 farmworkers favored membership in the United Farmworkers Union. Seventy-eight farm workers· favored Teamsters union, and eighty, because of no information of disinterest, had no preference. "These results clearly indicate the desires and will of the campesinos," ~r. Romero stated, "and if power and wealth prevail in the form of agribusiness-supported Teamsters union and the workers are denied their choice, a Congressional investigation would certainly be immediately for­

. thcoming." 
Fr. Romero addressed himself to other issues in his lecture, also concentrating on a description of the goals of his organization, Priests Associated for Religious, Educational, and Social Rights (P.A.D.R.E.S.). Predominantly made up of Chicano priests, P.A.D.R.E.S. attempts to provide pastoral and sociological counseling specifically to the large numbers of Chicano Catholics, often strictly Spanish speaking, in the U.S. The group has been a cohesive, socially con­scious body since 1969 and is headqtJ'lr­tered in San Antonio, Texas. 
MECHA Pres. endorses lettuce boycott 
The Notre Dame chapter of M~CHA (Movimiento Estudiantil Chicano de Aztlan) has announced its support of the lettuce boycott. MECHA President Jose Luis Gonzalez, a junior English major, expressed his group's hope that Notre Dame students will today vote to serve only United Farm Workers Union (UFW or black eagle) lettuce in the dining halls. Said Gonzalez, "If Notre Dame students, generally from a comfortable to affluent background, realized the hardships un­dergone by the farm worker families every day of their lives, they would recognize what a small sacrifice it is to skip eating lettuce with their meal only once in a while." · 
MECHA bases its support of the Boycott on several grounds. 
Statistically, the living and working conditions of farmworkers are so sub-. standard when compared to the larger society that the numbers themselves are shocking. According to Department of Agriculture statistics (which ironically many see as "showing the best picutre"), the average yearly income for a family of four is $2,700. This income includes the earnings of· the entire family, including children, who make up a sizable number of the farmworker labor force. 
Department of Agriculture figures estimate 800,000 children under 16 yards of age work on a continuing basis in the fields. Eighty per cent of farmworker children never reach high school; maternal and child mortality rate is one hundred and twenty per cent higher than the population as a whole; tuberculosis and other infectious diseases are found with two hundred and sixcy per cent greater frequency among farmworkers in this country. In addition, 800 farm workers die of pesticide poisoning yearly. The real horror of these figures, of course, is the human being each number represents­the child in the field, the mother dying during childbirth, the father out of work because of tuberculosis. 
The movement struggling to counter and, eventually. totally eliminate such statistical realities has gained its principal expression in the UFW and its supporters. Since its inception, the UFW has been recognized, by political leaders like Senator Edward M. Kennedy, church leaders like Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh, as well as by the field workers themselves, as the major agent promoting farmworker interests. In this role of active catalyst, the UFW l\as been the object of attack by those corporate interests which stand to profit from the continued abuse of farmworkers. 
Nationwide, the hopes of all farm­workers for a better life are dependent upon the survival and success of the UFW. The passage, administration, and en­forcement of protective labor legislation is inextricably tied to UFW's presence and activities. . . Furthermore, public discussion and concern for the conditions of the farmworkers manifest the in­separable link betwen the improved future of farmworkers and the existence of a flourishing farmworkers' union. 
Opponents of the UFW mount a polished, well-financed propaganda campaign supported by several large agricultural corporations. One of their assertions' (which, incidentally, Dr. Phillip Faccenda passed on unqualified in his letter advising students of the lettuce boycott referen­dum) is that "the boycott is unjust because the matter is simply a jurisdictional dispute between two unions" (Faccenda letter, Observer 4-12-73). The preceding statistics clearly demonstrate that the boycott is not, in fact, "simply" a union struggle. To see it "simply" as such is to ignore the actuality of the impoverished condition of these hardworking Americans. 
Nevertheless, because agricultural .:orporations see UFW demands as a threat to their profit margin, they generally would prefer to negotiate union contracts witht the Teamsters union, a labor force not totally committed specifically to field laborers, as is the UFW. Because of this obvious fact, MECHA calls to the attention of Notre Dame students an in-depth, wholly ob­jective analysis of Teamsters vs. UFW 
farmworker contracts made by journalist Bill Akers in 1970. 
This published study, as well as other sources for this article, is available upon request to any Notre Dame student or faculty member. Copies may be obtained from the secretary rn the Centro de Estudios Chicanos on the eleventh floor in the Memorial Library. 
In the study, Akers makes an impartial, line-by-line comparison of the two con­tracts, and he carefully avoids in­terpreting or evaluating his material. 
MECHA unequivocally believes that the Teamster contract is grossly disad­vantageous for the farmworkers and overwhelmingly advantageous for the agricultural corporations. The UFW contract, on the other hand, demonstrates clearly that its principal concern is the individual field worker-not other white collar employees and assuredly not the grower industry itself. In matters of union security, discrimination, reporting and standby time, housing, 1medical coverage, on the job safety, management rights, wages, etc., the UFW contract advocates solely the field workers best interests. 
Recognizing the importance of the UFW to the protection and promotion of farm­workers' economic interests and civil rights, MECHA urges Notre Dame students to support the cause of these politically powerless, impoverished American workers by endorsing the boycott. Such support can best be ac­complished by voting to serve only UFW (black eagle label) lettuce in Notre Dame's dining halls. The UFW label, incidentally, is your guarantee that the 1.ettuce is free from dangerous pesticides. 



4 

the observer Monday, April 16, 1973 

Observer insight 




I. . t
. t res1s
L1.thuanlanCa h0 lCS 
The first half of this article, last Friday, gave a brief sketch of the 700 year history of the Catholic Church in Lithuania. 
This Insight relates some in­cidents in the continuing Soviet persecution of Lithuanian
Catholics. The reports were taken from the underground "Chronicle of the Lithuanian Catholic Chur­ch.. which has been reaching the I ' ld · ce last "ear
ree wor sm J • 
. . 
by Lmas Sidrys 
. On Sunday a~ternoon, May 14, 1972, after saymg a f~w words protesting the relig~ous and ~litica~ p~rsecuhon of L1thuamans, nmeteen year old Romas Kalan~ set h_imself on fire in the Kaunas park, man ~ffort to bring ~e plight of.~~uarua t~ the a~tenbon of the VISiting P~es1dent N1xon. Tak~n to a ho_spt~, he rep~at~ agam and agam: I am p~nsh1~g ,ror t_he freedom of L1thuarua. He died several hours later. . 
On the follow~ng Thursdayriotin~ erupted dunng his funeral, in wh1ch thousands of students a~d workers attacked Commu~1st Party and secr~t pol~ceheadquarters, two policemen died and hundreds of students were arrested. This L~thuanian pro_te~t, the most_ dram~ tic to ~~ur Wlthm the Soviet Umon wtthin recent memory, ~as been ackno~ledgedby f!te Sov1et p~ess, betraymg the r~g1m~ 's co~s1derable concern w1th .L1thuaman developments. . 
_This _recall~ the_ case of_ the L1thu~ruan sailor_ Su?as Kudirka, who, m U.S. terntonal waters off Martha's Vineyard, jumped onto the Coast Guard ~':'tter Vigilant and asked for political asylum. Afte~ c?mplex •. garbled com­mumcatl?ns ~1th shore, the. commandmg officer of the Vi~ilant was ordered to su~render Simas back to the Sov1e~, as ~as demanded by the Russian captam. After six Soviet seamen came abord the Vigilant and began to beat him to unconsciousness, Simas shouted in Englis~ "Oh ~· help me!:·; the AmeriCn ~ailors were forbtd~en W do anythmg. 
In the trial, as reported by Anatol~ Shub o~ the Wash~,gton Post, Su~as Kudirka s~ted:. I do not consider myself guilty smce I did not betray my homel~nd, Lithuania. I do not. cons1~er Russia, called the Soviet Umon today, as my homeland..However, I know very well that my fate has already been decided by the securi~y organs...! _am a devout' Catholtc, therefore, 1f\the supreme court sentences me to death, I would request that a priest be allowed to _give me"!? las_t r~tes of the _Catho~Jc chur~h. Wish•_ng to avmd th~ mternatio~al attention of an outnght_ execution, the court sentenced Simas to ten years labor in a strict regime camp. 
Several Lithuanians were in­jured when police broke up a crowd of 600 Catholics who cheered and threw flowers in the path of a priest on his way to his trial. "On the street, the police _seized th~m and shoved them m~o pohce vehicles. Those who resisted were beaten, thrown to the ground, dragged by their legs." The priest, Fr. Joseph Z<;Jebskis, was ~barged with teachmg cateChism to 
SPECIAL WEEKEND ROOM RATES FOR NOTRE DAME PARENTS OR VISITORS 
$6.95 $8.95 
Single occupancy Double occupancy 
No Notre Dame identification required, just mention this lad. Effective any Fri., Sat. or Sun. thru June 15th. 1973 except for the weekend of Mny 18th. 
HICKORY INN MOTEL 50520 U.S. 31 North South Bend, Indiana 46635 
(219) 272-7555 3 miles North of the Tollroad. 
C.lhlf· T V . A•r Cond . Phones Send this ad to your Parents. 
. · · · t0 S ' t p ·
ch1~r~n, Ille~al under ~viet law. signatur~s" ovie. remier 
ln court, Pr. Zdebsk1s defended Brezhnev · ...We, behev~r~, ~sk himself against the charge: "It has tha~ you correct the IOJ~stice to be answered with the same! agamst the people b¥ returmng to 
words with which the first Ap_ostles of Jesus answered the highest Jewish court: "It is necessary,to
obey God more than men. Zdebskis leveled his own charges: "An atheist, be he a member of the secret service, an administrator or an educator is one and the same ­
•
God's adversary ... A long list of 
facts gleaned from the conduct of 
the ' atheists, gives off a 
malodorous air of. cunning and 
deceit in this matter of freedom of 
conscience. Quite frequently' the 
atheists can be likened to 
Shakespeare's Duke of Gloucester, 
who secretlymurdered all who 
opposed him, and yet beforel the 
people managed an air of 
respectability, even to the point of 
appearing in their midst with a 
prayer book in hand ... The religious 
freedom granted in the Soviet 
Lithuania can be equated with 
permission to live but not to be 
born ... May the good Lord make us 
priests more fearful of His hour of 
justice than of your judgement."' 
Zdebskis is now in prison. 
Another priest, Fr. Anthony 
Seskevicius also convicted of 
teaching cat~hism, attempted to 
defend himself in court by using 
the writings of Lenin: "The 
preparation of children for First 
Communion is fully permissible in 
other sister Social Republics which 
uphold Leninism, e.g. Poland, 
Hungary, Czechoslovakia. But, in 
our own land, wherein we profess 
full freedom of conscience and 
religious liberty, where Lenin's 
teachings area basic· foundation, 
priests are accused and brought to 
trial for fulfilling their duties -for 
merely attempting to fulfill them.'' 
Fr. Prospera! Bubnys was im­
prisoned for one year for preparing 
children for Confirmation; the 
local authorities had burst nto the 
church and dragged the crying 
children to the station. Over one 
thousand people from the 
Girkalnis Patish signed a petition 
asking for his relase: "From our 
experience we clearly see that 
children brought up in the Faith 
grow up to be better individuals; 
the priest was asked by the parents 
"on their own initiati,ve" to teach 
the faith and morality to their 
children ... " 
The Communist government granted only one permit for the construction of a new church in 1956 designating its location in a swa~p where no person could enter. However, the priest wasalso an architect and directed the people who working "day and night": filled up the swamp and built a large stone church. Just on its completion the state sentenced the pastor on multiple accounts to eight years imprisonment, and ordered the church tower to be torn down. For a couple of days the workmen could not approach the church as women of the Catholic, Protestant and Greek Orthodox faiths surrounded the church and would not let them through. Later: the army stepped in, and using 
convict labor,destroyed the 120 foot bell tower. The church is now used as a music school. In 1972 the Klaipeda · Catholics tried again, sending a petition of 3,023 
· us the c~~rch we built at our own expense. . . . .All of these petitions a~d ~n­
c~den_ts are only_ dramatic m-diCatio~s of the ordt_nary, everyday ~ards~Ips, tensions, .theats, fman~1al and le~al wornes_ that constitute the da1ly persecution of 
• · C th l' Th
the Ltthuaman a o 1cs. ey
also indicate clearly that the Lithua~ians are using every op­portumty to protect and strengthenthe Faith, and to teach it to t~eir c~ildren .. 
Their resistance Is founded on hope. D_uring a_ 1946 tri~l, the Commumsts said to Btshops Borisevicius, "You were ~nee honored but_now Y?,U are no~ng. we are_ the_ victors. ~e B!~hops a~swer~ m a calm votce, Yo_ur v1~tory ~s only for today. Chr1st W_tll . ":m ~nd . my cou~ try, L1thuarua, will wm. The b1shop was tortured an~ e~ecuted. The process of ca~omzation o! anoth~r marty~e.d bishop, · Jurg1s Matula1tis, has a~eady ~gun: 
A letter fro~ aL~thuan,t,an pnel?t sums up the s1~uation: There. 1s too much hermsm that the Faith would be bro~en. Many _of our brother are gomg through f1~e and water ... and ~ow many children have grown With a 'Clear heart and 
Job hunting ahead? 
If there's any kind of a "dress-up" occasion in your future, we have the apparel at the price 
you want to pay. 
Top quality 
clothing at 
reasonable prices. 
a pure SOUl!"
"Don'tforget us in your prayers, that God may give us strength to persevere in the struggle and not to lose the Catholic spirit, that our sufferings may help to ignite the fire of Christ's love throughout the 
\IW~h~o~le:_w~or~l~d.:_.'_'--------===H=O=T=·=LI=N=E=·=!2=1=Sl=S=6=3·=37=s=s== 
~ 

HOLY WEEK 
Campus Ministry invites you to participate in any of the following /itergies. 
Thursday 
Main Church Pentecostal (BP) Farley 
Holy Cross 
Morrissey 

Friday 
Main Church Pentecostal (BP) Walsh Holy Cross Mornssey 
Saturday Main Church Dillon Flenner Holy Cross Morrissey Pentecostal 
Breen-Phillips 
JANTZEN KNIT SHIRTS 
We have these popular shirt styles in great numbers...many colors and patterns in a wide range of sizes. These are the shirts you'll practically live in this summer... and they make a practical way to live. 


from $11 
Get ready 
believe it or not, summer is on it's way...we're ready, are you? We have a good selection of swimwear, shorts, tank tops and more. Stop
in ... browse. 

CoUegiate Notes 
Understand all subjects, plays and novels faster! 
Thousands of topics available

Com;::::::r;:~~~:~:.:·;·~,, 
GUARANTEED
sEN o $1.90 tor our latest descriptive Mail Order catalogue with Postage Paid Order Forms 100 ~oLLEGtATE RESEARCH 
1 N. tJth st. Bldg. Rm 706 
Phila. Pa. 19107 
Spm 8pm 10 pm 
11:15 pm 7:30pm 
3pm 2 pm 3 pm 3 pm ~ pm 
8 pm 11 pm Midnight Midnight J1 pm 10 pm 
ON THE CAMPUS •.. NQTP E DAME 
~~------------~ ­
Monday, APril 16, 1973 the observer 
Equal Rights Amendment 
Will legislation end sexual inequities? 

by Greg Rowinski some progress has been made in um'atify any of the present 26 side," Griffiths said, "In my committee process, Griffiths 
Staff Reporter removing sex discrimination from amendments, putting the Bill of judgment, it will be passed before began on August 26, 1970, to gather Section One: Equality of rights laws but "persistent patterns." Righ~s _in especial danger. . . this year is out or by next year." signa_tures on a discharge petition under the law shall not be denied or remain. Therefore, the ERA IS ~nff1ths expe~ts a court f~ght m extraordinary action to skirt the committee. Thus, the abridged by the u.s. or by. any necessary. ~his mat~er o~ly If Nebr~~;s~a s vote The bill did not receive bill was brought to the floor for States on account.of sex. anti-discrimination legislation IS crucial m determmmg the reverential treatment in the U.S. debate. Two hours later, it was Section Two· The Congress shall f 1 th 1 success of the amendment before Congress in spite of its age. It took headed for the Senate. 
· Congresswoman Griffiths, ee s a the deadli"ne A · f "d ed
have any power to enforce, by · extraordinary action by Griffiths ser~es ? ri ers -:vere propo~ appropriate legislation, the the bill would be more ap-With six years to go, supporters to even get the bill to the House t~ ~a•!!tai!! certam ~r~tecbve provisions of this article. propriately termed an anti-feel confident in the success of the floor. <hscnmmabons. The bills sup-Section Three: This amendment discrimination bill, rather than a bill. Feeling it "has time on its (continued on page 11) shall take effect two years after bill guaranteeing equality. Op­the date of ratification. pon'ents, said-the ten-term 
Representative, are frightened by
"All I can say is that is it not the implications for American fortunate that women did not take society of "equality.'' the ball first and legislate against But Griffiths agrees that the us, because, if that were the case, fifty-year old bill is too old to be we would be here now challenging renamed. 
all these things." The 19th Amendment gave a 
The "things" that Senator false sense of security to women Marlow Cook of Kentucky spoke of who thought that the right to vote were the legal discriminations would open up other doors. But the presently suffered by women in the ERA was deemed necessary when 
U.S. He spoke these words on the this dream faded. Senate floor where he and other The joint resolution must be sponsors "took the ball" by sup-approved by 38 state legislatures porting the Equal Rights Amend-(three-fourths of the states) by ment CERA). March, 1979. 

Observer lnsiraht 
If the ERA is ratified by eight chances of becoming law more states by March, 1979, sex Thirty states have already will no longer be a permissible ratified the bill. Fourteen factor in determining the legal legislatures have voted against it rights of women or of men. or tabled it. Any of those states 
No longer will the federal, state, voting against it may, in the or I:JlUnicipallegislatures be able to future, reverse its position before discriminate because of sex, the 1979 deadline. establish sex quotas, or give Nebraska has caused a con-special privileges to either sex. troversy by attempting to rescind 
ERA supporters feel that their its approval. "In my opinion," said bill will open the way to the Griffiths, "if they have ratified, treatment of women as in-they cannot vote to rescind." dividuals, not as members of a History seems to bear out class. That class has often in the Griffiths. Congress counts the past been one with "idiots and number of ratifications. Dean 
children," according to the bill's Thomas Shaffer of the Notre Dame primary sponsor in the U.S. Law School recalled that two Congress, Congresswoman Martha states tried to "unratify" Griffiths (D-Mich). the 14th Amendment, but Congress 
The Majority Report of the counted their votes for approval. Senate Judie Committee If states could unratify, the dean reported the of the states could 
University Policy on Professional 
• And Family Relationships 
It is the policy of the University to consider all qualified persons for employment. It is also importal")t that collaboration among colleagues not be intruded upon by personal, rather than professional con­siderations. Therefore the approval of the Office of the Provost or the Office of the Vice President for Business Affairs, depending on the type of employment. will be required prior to employemnt: 
(l) 
Where a prospective employee is related to a University employee who would be his or her administrative superior. 

(2) 
Where a prospective employee is related to a University employee in the department to which he or she will be assigned if employed. 

(3) 
Where a prospective employee is related to a University employee and the lwo would have a close working relationship if the prospective employee were employed. 


Faculty members should neither initiate nor participate in institutional decisions involving a direct benefit (appointment. promotion, tenure, salary, leave of absence, etc. l to their own relatives. 
Heidi stands tall
PENANCE 
, .. with a heel that rises to any occasion on a kicky platform sole. 
-a lenten series sponsored 
The Personality slated to be the super star on campus to show 
by Campus Ministry 
off with color-coordinated separates. 
Tuesday. , April 17 




Personality.
Penitential Service 
Price Range $16 ·$20 
-with Fr. Tom Stella 
Personality Shoes Are Available at: Shoeland, US 31 No. & US 31 So., Sol!th Bend, La Porte and Portage, Ind.

7:30 p.m. 
Paul's Sha,e Store, 116 W. Plymouth, Bremen, Ind. Swearingens Shoe Store, 208 N. Michigan, Plymouth, Ind.
Sacred Heart Church 

...........____________________ 


Dpinian
THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Rebuttal:
Jerry Lutkus Art Ferranti Dan Barrett
Editor-in-Chief Executive Editor Executive Editor 
NEWS: 283-1715 

No Lettuce Boycott
Dan Thornton EDITORIALS: 283-8661 Joe Butler Business Manager BUSINESS: 283-7471 Advertising Manager 
Monday, April 16, 1973 
tam killian 
fram the editar!ls desk: 
On this day, one year ago, the Un.te<.l States government announced that it had resumed full scale bombing of North Vietnam. The attacks struck deep into the country and reportedly inflicted considerable damage on the major cities of Hanoi and Haiphong. 
The mood across the country was dismal and pessimistic as war protests broke oul The American people were downcast as arguments and fever rose over the president's decision. The devisive element of the war had once again cut a swath between the peoples of America. 
One year later, the streets of America are clear of war protesters. The skies of Hanoi are not filled with American bombers. The POW's are home and there are no American troops left in the combat zones of South Vietnam. 
A year ago on this day, no American really thought too seriously of peace in Vietnam. Mothers waited sadly, for only a faint hope remained that their prisoner sons would one day return. Wives still wept bitterly at the reports of their husbands' deaths. The country was sad and downcast and the hope of peace stayed submerged in the sorrows of a nation burdened with a senseless war. 




DECIDE TO VOTE 
Wednesday, the people of Notre Dame and people across the country will retire to their homes in anticipation of the Easter holiday. And this Easter, these people will have something to-celebrate. For the first time that I can remember, my country is not actively involved in a war. For the first time, in my life, I will be able to celebrate this day of peace knowing that American men are not dying on some lost battlefield or in some unimportant rice paddy. For this, we have something to give thanks. 
Yet, despite this favor, there is still fighting throughout the world. War rages in the Mideast. Ireland remains split in their strife and the people of the world still have trouble living together. Within our country, homicide rates are higher and people are up in arms over rising pr:ices. There are problems everywhere and it makes the end of the war seem bittersweet at besl 
But nonetheless, it gives something new to this Easter day. It gives a peace that we haven't seen in many years. For that we must give thanks. Shalom. 
Jerry, Lutkus 
A strong turnout in today's referendum on the UFW lettuce boycott is crucial. It's crucial because students are finally being given a chance to voice their opinion on matters which directly affect them. After waiting this long, it would be failure if the students let a vocal minority carry the issue because they didn't turn out to vote. 
So there are two issues involved­student responsibility to vote and voting intelligently. And neither is more im­portant-than the other. The issues in this case are not crystal clear and require that each person inspect the issues involved. But not voting because the issues aren't clear only puts the decision in the hands of a minor~ty. 
In the end the issue which decides the matter is the fact that migrant workers deserve the same rights as any other worker-the right to unionize and bargain collectively. When you clear away the smoke screens of ethnic discrimination and compulsary unionization, the right of the migrant worker to a better life stands out clearly along with the right of agricultural workers to unionize as they see fil And that is where concerned people at Notre Dame must come in. 
Notre Dame has been supporting the boycott on a quiet basis all year, but we are now getting the chance to step to the forefront and claim for the migrant worker a status he has long deserved. We can no longer support the boycott privately, so now we must support it openly. Putting the ND mystique behind the boycott will not tarnish it; it will reaffirm its raison d'etre1if the votes are cast intelligently. 
So think before you vote. 
Dan Barrett 

First off I would like to say that those involved with the lettuce boycott (including the Editorial Board) have made an attempt to deal with the issue fairly. Next let me say that I think they have failed miserably in that attempt. The American Farm Bureau Federation's position was stated incorrectly-clearly their statement came not from a Federation spokesman but from some other source (a mistaken one I might add). Nowhere in any of the articles were there to be found statements from the teamsters union. Much of the evidence sup­porting the boycott is circumstantial at best. 
Facts and figures ... 
The students responsibility in this matter is not .to blindly vote yes 
simply to force a confrontation. . . Rather our responsibilitly is to 
seperate the facts from the vast amountof fiction presented so far-a 
responsibility 1to detect realism in emotionally charged issues. For 
various reasons Mr. Chavez has been associated with the liberal 
members of our society and hence has been given automatic ac­. ceptance ,by most of us who hold to the right of a man to make a decent living. As a proponent of this movement I think it is time all of us take a long, hard look at Chavez and what he is really doing for those he claims to represent. 
Responsibility to look... 
What evidence does the Editorial Board have that the teamsters are not serving their contracts? Figures show that 75 per cent of the lettuce growers are currently under teamster contracts and most ofthe workers employed by these growers are better paid than those under United Farm Worker contracts. Chavez claims that the teamsters do not adequately represent the large numbers of migratory workers. First off, what do the teamsters have to say about this and secondly, where are the large masses of migratory workers Chavez claims to represent? The California Rural Manpower Report for 1971 stated that only 4 per-cent of the state's farm workers were migratory. 
What about the workers? 
Farm Bureau has been in the controversy since the beginning. They and Chavez have proposed legislation which would help to establish a farm worker equivalent of the National Labor Relations Act. However, Chavez soon found that an illegitimate power play, in the form of a secondary lettuce boycott, gave him morepowerwith less trouble. It never seemed to bother him that in choosing such a means he was not only ",breaking" the law but also forcing his bargining system on grower and worker alike. At no time have the workers had an opportunity to voice their opinion on which union to join through a secret ballot. Legislation is necessary which will protect the right of the worker to decide on a union and then use that union for collective bargaining. Such legislation is currently in the making. Chavez has shown no support for it however and one would almost be led to think that he rather enjoys the coercive power he now has through secon­dary boycott. 
The decision ... 
Ifwe as Americans, Christians and ND Students truely stand for the right of every man to have his opinion heard then we must take the first step by voting no on the boycott referendum and then do something that requires much more effort than not eating lettuce for a while.we must write our legislators petitioning for laws which will protect the rights of the farm worker, migrant or otherwise, from those who take advantage of them · whether they be tyrannical growers or tyrannical unionizers.. Who are we to decide that the workers must join the UFW Union? Vote for the right of migrant workers to pick their own unions. VOTE NO ON THE LETTUCE BOYCOTT REFERENDUM. 
the observer 
Nigh't Editor: Marlene Zloza 
Ass't Night i:ditors (they all deserve a title): Kathy Kelly, Chris Sullivan, Mike Kulczyckl Day Editor: Mary Janca Editorial Page Editor: Tom Tigh Sports Editor: Vic Dorr Features Editor: Beth Hall Hal Operator: Mike Goetz Copy Editor: Mike O'Hare Pictureman: Jerome Phillips Ad Layout: John Kloos and Jerry Lutkus Typists: Mary Romer, Rob Barringer, Harry Chung, Steve Roper 
Visitors: T.C., Dan Ryan, Art, Chip 
Night Controller: Dave Rust 


Monday, April 16, 1973 the observer 
7 
iames taylor
edward smalf 
James Taylor, one of the top songwriters and performers of the late sixties and today will appear in concert at the ACC tonight at 
8:00 p.m. Taylor has enjoyed a large following from a number of excellent singles ("Fire and Rain," "Country Road," to name a couple) and some fine albums. He is a quiet philosopher, as opposed to the harsh preachings of Dylan, and he dwells upon the more simple conflicts of emotion that occur in every day life. His music is simple, clear and poetic. His words reflect a constant search for a peaceful goal. 
the beginnings 
James began his musical career in the summer of -1966 with a band called the "Flying Machine," which included his current lead guitarist, Danny Kortchmar. The band lasted a year and produced one album. 
He went to London in January of 1968 and recorded his first solo album with a little help from his friends: Peter (Peter and Gordon) Asher and Paul McCartney among others. He admitted in the Rolling Stone interview that he owed that first album largely to the Beatles. 
Taylor and producer Asher transferred to Warner-Reprise and recorded Sweet Baby James. This album brought him to popularity, and well it should have. The album contains such gems as "Fire and Rain," "Country Road," and the title cut. It also included a couple of blues cuts, "Steamroller" (currently released by Elvis) and "Your Lip on Me." "Sunny Skies," "Blossom," and "Anywhere Like Heaven," are typical Taylor; light, lyrical and mixed with a bit of emotion. Among the people backing James up on the album were Carole King on piano, Kortchmar (otherwise known as Kootch) on guitar, and Randy Beisner on bass (Eagles.) 
" Mudslide Slim his second album, is equally as good if not better. His bit single, Carole King's "You've Got a Friend," is included and his own "You Can Close Your Eyes" is superb. Among the other tasty cuts on the album was "Long Ago and Far Away" which featured the harmonies of James and Joni Mitchel. 
His latest album to date is One Man Dog. The first cut is "One Man Parade," featuring a folky guitar and congas. "Nobody But You," a sad, slow song is much like "Hey Mr., That's Me Up There on the Juke Box." It also is very reminiscent of "Places in My Past." As a matter of fact, the one problem on this album is that most of the songs sound the same. On "Back on 


Little Birj Screen 

tv for easter 
ferranl:i 
The networks are preparing for Easter watch .this vehicle. But pass on, this one is and the results are dynamite. On Friday at the pits. 
8:30 e.s.t. CBS presents Rodgers and Switching to NBC will not help in lieu of Hammerstein's Oklahoma!, the 1955 movie ABC's movie tonight either. Also at nine, of the smash musical Broadway hit. The Judith reruns with Sophia Loren, Peter two main leads are Gordon MacRae as Finch, and Jack Hawkins in a melodrama Curly, a simple cowboy, and Shirley Jones concerning post-World War II Israel. Miss as Laurey, a farm girl. The plot revolves Loren plays a Jewish girl haunted by her around their love but it is the music and imprisonment during the war who is strong cast that make this hit so tracking down her traitor husband with the memorable. The cast includes many then help of freedom--fighter Finch. Try studying "unknowns" such as Eddie Albert, Rod tonight so you can enjoy the break instead. Steiger, Jay C. Flippen, and James Whit­But at P.ight, Paul McCartney is featured more. For those going home, it is one for the in a special with him, his wife Linda, and whole family. his group, Wings. It airs at eight on ABC 
On Easter Sunday ABC at eight e.s.t. will tonight. Also on the specials circuit is a two present "Portrait of a Man Named John" hour "Streets of San Francisco" at nine with Raymond Burr as Angelo Giuseppe Thursday night on ABC, a two hour Roncalli. A ganster? Hardly. This great presentation for Easter of "The Waltons" at man later became Pope John XXIII. The eight Thursday on CBS, a Bob Hope special special revolves around an incident in Thursday at nine on NBC with Joey John's life before he was Pope and Burr is HP.atherton, Milton Berle, and Glen Camp­finely cast both for his own personal bdl in a salute to vaudeville, a music special knowledge of the Pope and also for the on CBS at ten Thursday entitled "Up With strong physical resemblance (with thehelp People" featuring no one in particular, a of a little make-up). Tune in: it should be tour of St. Peter's Basilica tomorrow at ten worth it. on NBC bosted by Sir Ralph Richardson, 
However, tune out "The ABC Sunday and Wednesday the Chinese Acrobatic Night Movie" which features Jerry Lewis Troupe performs at 8:30 on ABC. It appears and Janet Leight in Three on a Couch, one of that Thursday will be a battle ground for the Lewis's brainless absurdities in which he specials. tries to marry his psychiatrist (Miss Leigh). A battle of a different sort is featured on 
The lines are old and stale, like Lewis's CBS's late movie (11:30 e.s.U tomorrow humor. &raping the bottom once again, night with the premiere TV showing of a ABC presents 1965's Red Line 7,000 tonight, great science fiction piece THX 1138 . at nine. It is a Howard Hawks contraption Deserving a prime time spot instead of this about race car tournaments. If you want to schedule, THX 1138 is a political sci-fi film see what James Caan did before he made it set in the 25th century where life and big with Brian's Song and The Godfather, (continued on page 9) 

• 
l ' 
the Street Again," Taylor says that he "has May," which features the beautiful har­to get back on my feet again" and at this mony and country influence of Linda point, I couldn't agree with him more. Rondstadt. The rest of the side is pretty,
"Don't Let Me Be Lonely" is by far the although repetitive. best song on the album. It has a standard Also appearing with Taylor is "The Taylor guitar and features a nice sax solo. Section," Danny Kooch's group. Tickets are 
Side two opens with "One Morning in still available at the ACC for a fine evening. 



disney on parade 
joseph abell 
The familiar walls of the ACC became a bleachers, the group was greeted by Dick temporary haven for Fantasy land for many GraySQn, a manger of the show. Through a children, young and old, yesterday af­pre-arrangement with another volunteer, ternoon as the cast of Disney On Parade Neal Loviner, Grayson took the youngsters wove their magic through the memories of a backstage, where Donald Duck presentedpacked house. .them· with souvenir pennants of the show. But for one small group, the outing was Vastly awed, the children returned to their something more than a day of en­seats for two and a half hours of beauty,tertainment; it was a day of unrivaled excitement)music andlife in themimitable 
excitement and fun as five Notre Dame Disney style. · volunteers treated ten of Sr. Marita's pupils They laughed at Herbie, the Love Bug's to a day of Disney, Notre Dame, ham­antics on a tightrope. They cheered for burgers and fun. Pinocchio when he escaped the clutches of 
The children, not told about the adventure Pleasure Island. They clapped in time to the until only two days before the show, were country ballads of Brer Bear and his ecstatic as they piled out of the shiny Grand friends. They stared in wonder at the beauty Prix on campus. The ten of them, none older and craftsmanship of the "Briny Ballroom" than nine, jumped arid tugged at "teachers" and "Mary Poppins" lavish sets. hands as the six Notre Dame monitors, Rick They noticed no discrepencies in the lack 
Bostwick, Mark Sorvillo, Bob Pete, Bob of black performers, no inconsistencies as Murphy, Julian Easter and Marva Marsh, ·Mary Poppins hit one of the towers of the pointed them in the direction of the ACC. Fantasyland castle as she flew off the set 
Treated to the show by the volunteers and via special guidewires, no sense of real evil Fr. Dave Schlaver, the idea came "as a as the "Codfather" made his entrance and brainstorm," according to Rick. "We had humorous exist from the seascene. This was wanted to do something like this before and the land of imagination and fantasy and then the Disney show came along. Next childhood, and these children were totally year, we'll probably want to do it again." engrossed in it. 
The Notre Dame students have been Mter the show, bright sunshine met the working at Sr. Marita's Primary Day group at the doors of the ACC, and they used School, serving as tutors once a week for a this rare occasion to explore the campus,few hours. They. are part of a larger taking small excusions to the library lawn volunteer tutoring program involving many and the small island on St. Joe's Lake, Notre Dame and St. Mary's students. among others. 
Rick was unhappy that not all the students Finally, a trip to Burger Chef and a 
ip the school were able to participate,. and playful encounter with an Observer 
said that the ten who were selected were. photographer's camera as they wolfed down 
chosen by Sr. Marita, mainly on the basis o~ hamburgers and french fries. 
the oldest, and therefore least likely to And then came the ride home, complete 
return to the school next year, children in with missing jackets, confused navigators
the class. and bumpy streets. Cries of "Bye,
But there were a few added treats for the teacher!" and wild yelling filled the bus as 
children aside from the show itself. each stop lightened the load. 
Upon seating themselves in Section 106's· "Teacher," one said, "this a fun day!" 
l• 
! 
l 

1 
• 
l ~ 
l 

Monday, April 16, 1973
8 the observer 




International Festival 
spins the globe
i 
•a 

• 
to present 


~ 

I • •I ~ entertainment 

<\II photo•s by Mike Budd. I 
I 
----------------~ 




Monday, April 16, 1973 the observer 
9 

this week on the tube 
(contirtued from page 8) 
love have been dehumanized. It stars Robert Duval (Consigliere Hagan in The Godfather) and Donald Pleasance. It begins with an old Buck Rogers filmclip but continues into an absorbing and horrifying look into the future. Don't miss it. 
Next Monday and Tuesday, NBC will rerun Isadora in two parts. This film which fictionalizes the life of rebellious and spitfire dancer Isadora Duncan has Venessa Redgrave in the title role and Jason Robards, Jr., as a close friend. It is more soap than biography and one which you might either enjoy or pass by. The curtain rises at nine both nights.
On ABC next Monday, Shirley MacLaine and Richard At­tenborough star in The Bliss of Mrs. Blossom at nine. This comedy about a bored wife (Miss Masc.Laine) who keeps her lover (James Booth) in her attic and unknown to her husband (At­tenborough) is actually based on a true story. Very British in humor, once the viewer catches the mood, the film becomes, as one critic writes, "slyly amusing." 
On ABC tomorrow, "The Movie of the Week" reruns a fairly engrossing horror-mystery called The Screaming Woman Olivia de Havilland, recovering from a nervous breakdown, finds that a woman is buried alive and cannot get anyone to believe her .There are some excellent shots especially during the climax when the only one she manages to get is the murderer (Ed Nelson). Don't shovel it aside at 8:30. Intermezzo, a classic David 0. Selznick film, with Ingrid Bergman and Leslie Howard is a soapy love story which caters to the romantic and simple­minded. It is excellently acted and marks Bergman's American film debut (1939) The plot is a love triangle and the tears begin to flow at 8:30 Wednesday. Next Tuesday (April24), Man Without a Country, based on the short story. It airs at 
8:30 also. And on "ABC's Wide World of Entertainment" next Monday and Tuesday, in two parts, The Portrait of Dorian Grey is redone and redone and redone. Watch and find out what I mean: 
11:30 both nights. 
Peter Fonda and Warren Oates drawl their way through what must be the world's slowest Western (matched only by Peter's 
sister Jane in Klute as the world's slowest detective film) in The Hired Hand, another network rerun. It wallows in "relevance" but not entertainment. It airs tomorrow at eight on NBC but ride on. Another made-for-TV rerun is slated for tomorrow also but on CBS at 9:30. Andy Griffith and Ida Lupino are held hostage but young thieves in The Strangers in 7A. I do not think Don Knotts could save this bit of miscast melodrama. 
Finally, on NBC Saturday at nine e.s.t., Rex Harrison, Susan Hayword, and Maggie Smith star in The Honey Pot in a film con­cerning the higher classes and murder (anything else new?) 
Trivia Bowl At the time of this writing only ten ND men and one SMC girl have signed up for Gentle Thursday's first event. I would like to see a team of ND femme fatales against one of SMC's finest also. So call between nine and ten-thirty any night at 8545. No entry test is 
~iven. 
Miscellaneous WSND's "The Lone Ranger" is now at 7:00 on Thursdays. WSND FM's band is 
88.9. Jerry Lutkus, our illustrious leader, is a regular on WSND's Thursday night program "Con­tact: Notre Dame" as is Father Burtchaell. If it is a live program, you-can voice your complaints or comments to . either when they open the phones. Broadcast time is from ten to eleven p.m. 
The· "Star Trek" cartoon show .vill feature the voices of William Shatner (Kirk), Leonard Nimoy {Spock), DeForrest Kelley <McCoy), Jam·es Doohan (Scotty), and Majel Barrett (Nurse Chapel). Since Miss Barrett is really Mrs. Gene Roddenbury, the show's creator and sage, chances are that he has a hand in it too. Things are shaping up. 
"Shaft" starring Richard Roundtree will be a new series next year revolving in the trilogy of Jimmy Stewart's "Hawkins on Murder" and "The CBS Tuesday Night Movies." "Tenafly" and "Questor", reported on in last week's column, are tentatively assigned to revolve with "Banacek" on NBC's "Wednesday Mystery Movie". 
Trivia Question: With the recent showing of The Wizard of Oz from 
L. Frank Baum's classic novels everyone knows that Bert Lahr played the cowardly lion, Ray 
University Policy on Child-bearing Leave 
A full-time faculty member whose pregnancy or delivery of child en­tails medical complications se4ious enough to constitute physical disability is entitled to a leave of absence as prescribed in the Academic Manual. Article Ill, Section II. 
Even when such physical disability is not present. she has a right to three wekks leave with pay at the time of delivery. She should advise her departmental chairman well enough in advance to allow for her duties to be fulfilled by other colleagues. 
Further, she may requesta leave of absence for an entire academic semester. Except for three weeks during that period she receives no salary, but continues to qualify for fringe benefits and other faculty rights. 
Untenured faculty members may claim a one-year extension of their appointments, and-or a similar extension of their untenured status for each period of child-bearing. Instructors have a right to the latter ex­tension only. These extensions will be granted whether or not a semester leave has been taken. In the case of an Assistant Professor in her first appointment. such an extension cannot be construed to oblige the University to otter her a subsequent three-year appointment. 
All the above refers to members of the Teaching-and-Research Faculty. The same rights are available to other faculty members, except that the discretionary leave of absence without pay is for a period of six months, rather than an academic semester. 
A similar policy obtains for all other full-time employees of the University, including administrators and staff. When physical disability is indicated, the rules for any sick leaye apply. Otherwise, the employee may claim a three week leave with pay, and-or a six month leave without pay. 
CORPS OF PASSIONIST VOLUNTEERS SUMMER OF '73: 
CATHOLIC YOUNG MEN. AGE 18-25. Experience Community life and Service. Projects in Alabama, Appalachia, Baja California, Mexico. Contact: 
• Brother Kevin O'Malley, C.P. Corps of Passionist Volunteers 5700 N. Harlem Ave. Chicago, Illinois 6Q631 
art ferranti 
Bolger played the scarecrow, and j.IalSB:.![ .\ddeH ·A.IO:lfa!H 
Jack Haley was the tin man. What -Aa{BH 'l[UnH-.Ia~{og 'a~az-.~t~e'I were the names of their characters 
: uonsanb B!A!.IJ. 01 .IaMsuv 
on the farm? 
Feel 'Jumpin'Jack Flash' run through yourblood on Superex Stereophones. 
On Superex Stereophones, you can actually feel music run right 
through your body. Even the finest speakers can't touch the physical 
sensations you get with Superex. 
_ 
Take the PRO-B VI. With a woofer and tweeter 
in each earcup, plus a full crossover network. So a pure rush of music enters each of your ears 
and travels straight to your toes. For $60.00, feel a guitar travel down your spine. Or a drum 
roll up your leg. 
Feel the comfort of Con-Form ear cush­
ions, when you lie back and just feel mellow. 
In case you want to dance around, there's a 
15 foot cord. The PRO-B VI is guaranteed in 
writing for two years. Compare the PRO-B VI 
in performance and price, and you'll see why Superex is the best sound investment around. 

Superex Stereophones 
Feel what you hear For free literature write:Superex Electronics Corp., Dept. X, 151 Ludlow St., Yonkers, N.Y. 10705. 
•
IP 






urope. 
STUDENT·RAILPASS 
The way tosee Europewltlloutfeelinclike a tourist. 
Student-Railpass is valid in Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Holland, Italy, Luxembourg, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland. 
Eurailpass, Box 90, Bohemia, New York 11716 
Please send me your free Student-Railpass folder order form. 0 
Or your free Eurailpass folder with railroad map. 0 
Name__________________________ 
Street_________________________ 
City _________________________ 
State________Zip___________ 
192b 

·----------------------------------------~ 
So you plan to spend the Summer in Europe this year. Great. Two things are mandatory. A ticket to Europe. And a Student-Railpass .• The first gets you over there, the second gives you unlimited Second Class rai I travel for two months for a modest $150 in Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Holland, Italy, Luxembourg, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, and Switzerland! All you need to qualify is to be a full-time student up to 25 years of age, registered at a North American school. college or university. 
And the trains of Europe are a sensational way to travel. Over 100,000 miles of track links cities, towns and ports all over Europe. The trains are fast (some over 1 00 mph), frequent, modern, clean, convenient and very comfortable. They have to be. So you'll meet us on our trains. It really is the way to get to know Europeans in Europe. 
But there's one catch. You must buy your Student-Railpass in North America before you go. They're not on sale in Europe because they are meant strictly for visitors to Europe-hence the incredibly low price. Of course if you're loaded you can buy a regular Eurailpass meant for visitors of all ages. It gives you First Class travel if that's what you want. 
Either way if you're going to zip off to Europe, see a Travel Agent before you go, and in the meantime, rip off the coupon. It can't hurt and it'll get you a better time in Europe than you ever thought possible. 
l 
• 


0 
Deeper vein tapped 
Editor: 
"The Son of Man will be delivered into the hands of men; they will put him to death ... " 
It is with a terrifying degree of detachment that people discuss the pros and cons of the many issues .whicJ:l are "open for public viewing.") A quick glance, a con­clusion drawn too soon, but a decision made. From then on it is merely a matter of repeating yourself. "I think it's up to the individual." "As long as you don't hurt anyone ... " When the question is the basic matter oflife andneath there needs to be a deeper vein of wisdom tapped. 
A few minutes ago I overheard the tail end of a conversation concerning two important issues: abortion and the development of the fetus in a place other than the womb. According to the premerl major, it is immoral for a fetus to be allowed to develop in an ~r­tifical environment, but abortion up to six months is acceptable !1.11 up to the mother. The in­
0
consistency is enormous, but it is there. 
Abortion is discussed repeatedly in letters to this paper. I don't often read the letters because they seem so totally out of place. By being placed alongside of issues such as parietals and room picks, abortion has lost its impact. We are faced with the most vital question of all and it shares space with the housing squeeze. The cheapening of the question, however, does not\ eliminate it. How can it be up to the individual to decide for the person unable to express himself'? Isn't someone hurt, something of the world missing each time an abortion is performed'? (Note: we have become accustomed to the usage of words such as "performed."). In our age a sense of justice and morality is needed, but we don't seem to be making much progress in that direction. The victories in 
the courts in favor of legalized abortion indicate to me that any "raising of consciousness" in this country is a joke, a very poor joke, at the expense not only of the unborn, but of we who will never share the joy of living with the slaughtered innocents. 
Terrence M. Murphy 
Conliict of prioritY) 
Editor: 
In looking at Joe Weiss's letter of April 12, and at the same timP looking at my own letter of April 3, I can only say that Joe missed my point completely. First of all, I never did, nor ever will, attempt to compare the magnitude of the problems of Viet Nam or abortion to the problems that face us here at Notre Dame. It is true that these national issues are problems that face the nation as a whole and are certainly more important. But what we are dealing with here is a conflict of proportional priority. Yes, VietNam and other national 
problems deserve a high priority. However, my point is, as it was on April 3, that we have neglected our own local problems by constantly telling ourselves that they will solve themselves. I never said Fr. Toohey should limit himself only to what happens at Notre Dame. My point was that he has limited 


in the lettuce boycott referendum today 
himself to national issues and seriously neglected local issues. I think what we have here is a case of extremes. Mr. Weiss feels it would be "degrading" for Fr. 
0 

Toohey to speak out "only" on local issues. Mr. Weiss thinksthaot I want Father to abandon his national attacks and concentrate "only" on local problems. That is not true. I want a proportionate amount of attention dealt to each. This was the point of my letter on April 3 arid this is what I urge all students and other concerned members of the Notre Dame community to do. 
Respectfully, 
Mike Desposito 

Unla1r del»aie 

Editor: 
I write this letter to take issue with the article 1in Tuesday's Ob­server entitled "The. Right to Palestine" by Gahib Amer. Aside from being the .most un­substantiated piece of journalism I have ever read, I think The Ob­server should not have printed it, out of respect for the athletes in Munich, and the pilgrims in Lud Airport, who were murdered in much the same fashion as Mr. Amer describes the Israeli Military victory as "Nazi Military success." 
I think that the debate he por­trayed in the article, if it was a debate, was extremely non rPrlrPo!':PJ1tational and unfair. Mr. 



VOTE 

La or, the Jew, seemed to be a complete noli-thinker, while Mr. Amer was the man with all the answers. Surely I do not have to 
tell anyone that Jews have been 
known to be of equal intelligence to 
Mr. Amer and all Arabs, indeed it 
is obvious that the Israelis ac­
complished more in the Holy Land 
in 25 years than the Arabs have in 
2000 years, but this is beside the 
point. When Mr. Laor's best 
argument is "But We have 
PalestineNow."II think the poor 
fellow needs some help, and I'm 
prepared to give it to him Mr. Amer. 
Let me attack your stand that the Jews should be "returned to Czechosloavkia'' and other countries where they come from because the Holy Land isn't theirs. Why don't we here in America all go back to where we came from too, and let the Indians like the ones at Wounded Knee take back their land, after all they were here first, so we have no right here. 
To suggest that the Jews return to where they came from is the most horrible statement I think' I've ever heard. Mr. Amer, I am a Jew, and my grandfather emigrated from Poland, where he and other old Jews tell stories a bout treatment that they received, treatment that might even shock you. Do you think that the Czechs or any other Eastern European government would let the Jews live in peace, without the 
YES 
same kind of persecution my ancestors got'? For as we all should know, the Jews are seen by the communists as a threat because they oppose agnosticism and indoctrination. Do not make blind suggeston of Eastern Europe to the Jews, Mr. Amer, I couldn't even wish this on the Arabs, how can you do it to Jews. 
The fact of the matter is that the Jews have every right the Arabs have to the HolyLand. There were Jews there before the birth of Mohammad, and artifacts exist to prove that Jews have their heritage there. Who do your people think they are to insist that they should now all leave'? 
The Arabs maintain that their people were thrown out of their homes, and that they have been taken advantage of, with the creation of the State of Israel, but isn't it the other way around'? I ask what little Israel did in 1967 to provoke a war'? Did they threaten and attack'? And after acting the Arabs now demand that all cap­tured land be returned without a pe~ce ' settlement, after being crushed by Israel in a matter of days, .in a war they started. How ridiculous! 
The question is, Mr. Amer, who is trying to drive who into the sea'? Perhaps you might include Dachau as a place for Jews to return to, after all, some Jews came from there you know. 
Mr. Amer, any time you care to debate with me or anyone who can ably defend the honor of Israel, I shall know you have courage UntJ,l then you act as a very good representation of an Arab World trounced by I~rael ( without using Russian \pilots.) in a matter of days, taking the loss out on her using terrorist activities. And only when your people realize that my brethren will not "be pushed into the sea," as the late Gamal Nassar favored, will Israel and the Arab countries reach an honorable settlement. Not before then, I'm afraid. So please stop with 

propaganda, because one dead Israeli weightlifter at Munich or one dead Puerto Rican pilgrim at Lud Airport is worth a million of. them. I am sick of hearing them. 
Mark L. Wenig 157 Cavanaugh 

Lettuce response 
Editor: 
In line with the proposed student referendum, would a University decision to boycott non-union 
lettuce indicate Cesar Salad?  a  preference for  
Sincerely, Tom Pearson 318 Zahm.  

The Observer welcomes all 
colnments and optnrons 
submited in the form of let­
ters. 
All letters must be submitted 
to The Observer office, and' 
they must be typewritten, 
double-spaced, and limited to 
no more than two pages in 
length. The Observer reserves the 
right to edit letters when spatial limitatio,.s deem necessary. 
•• LILIES OF 1111
FIELD WE ARE •• 
. Remember lbeliliesof.the-bible? 
•· They-toiled not. Neither did they spin. As Domimcan Sisters of the 
<Sick Poor we ll>il for the young as \veil as the (lid~ for the acute as well a5 th~ cltronically ill and we cate notfor their race or r~· 
0 
• 

Iigion for all are of the kingdom of Ood. Our feet carry us along busy streets. up and down tene­tnent stairs.in and ..out of homes where illness.Jgnorance, di~cour~ agement and despair are wme­times permanent guests. Nursing, counseling, helping to keep fam­ilies together in their homes as one loving unit The Dominican Sisters of the Sick Poor achiev­ing t·he impossible every day of the year. 0 
To learn bow you can serve as a Dominican Sister of the Sick Poor write to: Sister Mar~uerite MitcheU, Vocation Director Room 103 
. Mariaudale, Ossining, 
! New York 10562 

iiiiiiii 
the conviction has been growing upon me, that things of fundamental im­portance to the people are not secured by reason alone, but have to be purchased with their suffering. 
-Gandhi 


.. 

Monday, April 16, 1973 the observer 1 1 
Legislation to treat women as individuals 
discriminative protection Still, the more blatant
(oo"tinued from page 5) 
discrimination needs some kind of 
· porters refused to let these at­such protective law:s count all firm legislative actions. tachments sap the bill's strength women alike, Much of the existing legislation or temper its language. Judy Snyder, President of the damages the family more than 
These riders, proposed hy Women's Rights Association of the equality could. For example, 
Senator Sam Ervin (D-N.Y.) Notre Dame Law School, regards dependents suffer from the dual would, among other things, reqwre the whole protectiQn argument as a standards as husbands provide separate restroom facilities for fallacious "low blow," denigrating better for survivors than wives The heart of the matter is that 
men and women and prevent in­the abilities of womeri. · can. Families in which the wife is terference with domestic Some of the opposition fears the the breadwinner suffer from the 
relationships. These two areas loss of this protection for women. injustice in the job market. were of major concern to op­Indiana State Senator Burnett Women receive less from Social ponents, both inside and outside Bauer stated, "If I think that Security while paying the same the Congress. women will lose more through it percentage of their income. Men 
Griffiths answered that the right than they'll gain, I'll vote against can pay less for insurance 
of privacy would ensure that there it." He added that women coverage of themselves, their would still be separate rest rooms deserved the special privileges wives, and their two children, then adding that it was "beneath th~ they receive. (He later joined the wives pay to insure themselves 
dignity of the legislative body to majority of the Indiana Senate in and their spouses. Credit stan­discuss it." voting against the amendment.) dards are also tougher for women The National Council of Catholic than men.
The Judiciary Committee
Women (NCCW) has expressed The above instances are only
majority reported that laws 
concern that the ERA would examples of the inequity that adds 
limiting over-time prevent the
hasten changes in attitudes that up to second-elass citizenship for
hiring and promoting of women.
could threaten this con­women. If wives are second-elass
Such discrimination is so per­
sti.tutionally-guaranteed right of citizens, then their husbands also
vasive, continued the report,. that 
pnvacy. suffer from this injustice.
women with four years of collegedomestic relationships make only slightly more than men equal military obligation In the field of domestic with eighth-grade educations. Opponents of tne l!;RA tear tne relationships, Griffiths assured TheY-ale Law Journal wrote that loss of the dual standard in terms 
men that the ERA would not in­women don't fit stereotypes. Still of military service. Griffiths ad­the discrimination interrelates mits that women would face the
terfere with "the right to open 
cardoors" for women. providing a complete dual syste~ same draft as men and will face Again, the NCCW warned that of rights and responsibilities for th~ same chances of combat duty. "Tlen and women.
the ERA might give impetus to Snyder is not upset by the changes in attitudes, aspirations, opposition of housewives military consequences, stating and self-images regarding that women have the same marriage, family life, and per­responsibility to national defense
Still, the defeat of the ERA fm
sonal life styles, putting further as men. Other armies already
the third time in lllinois demon­
stress on the development of the have places for women, including
strates opposition from an unex·
family unit. Israel's.
pected source-housewives.
Many opponents fear such a Snyder feels that women will be
Many married women feel that
dangerous consequence for judgerl _ on a "standard of
the ERA threatens their bread­
domestic relations. Supporters reascmableness," in regards to
winning husbands. The 40 percent
assure them that no private compassion and physical
of the labor force represented by
relationship is involved in the bill's capability, just as men are, in
women seek an end to the favored 
intent or implementation. No wife determining combat status.
position of men in the job market. 
would be forced out of the home ShaffJ!r takes the admittedly
But many married women seek to
and into the job market. radical view that the vulnerability 
maintain the sex-based privileges
Rather this bill has benefits for of women to combat duty might be 
and want to stay in the homes, with 
the family, giving the already­"a good/jhing." Such a "shocking
their husbands secure in their sex­
working mother or the mother and novel" condition might "give 
discriminatory positions. 
seeking employment a better the people in Washington pause"
The ERA won't force the wives
competitive position. before they decided to send troops
out of their homes but may have an
So-ealled protective restrictions into combat.
impact on their husbands'
would be invalidated or extended The NCCW finds it "irrational"
paychecks--and may indirectly
to men as well as women. not to see a "sOf'i '\l threat in the
necessitate a second course of
Much of the present protection equal military i>bligation.''
income, a working wife.
only prevents women from com­"strange bedfellows"
Many women seek to keep their
peting with men, as women are roles as homemakers, mothers, Fear of loss of protection is not uniformly judged as "the weaker and wives, with ,..the husband the sole basis of the well-organized 
sex." 
opposition to the ERA. Griffiths"bringing home the bacon." TheyStatt institutions, especially placed ~e Communist Party, thefeel that, in this traditionally­colleges, have been notorious John Birch Society, and the Kufeminine position, they can exploitculprits in preventing women from Klux Klan in the opposition party rather than be exploited.
competing on an equal basis. 
truly ''str(ln_geJ>edfellows." ' Discrimination has been Griffiths spoke of a strongSo the potential loss of protectionwidespread in hiring practices and .::atholic response against thehas become a central bat­admissions policies. 
tleground. Senator James Buckley danger to "God, mother, and apple Grad school applicants have pie."
(Conservative-N.Y.) voiced thefaced the brunt of this. While Indiana's bishops are. divided .Jn
opposition's concern by agreeingfemale applications to med school the ERA, said Bishop Josephwith the lack of justification ofhave increased by 300 percent Crowley of the Fort Wayne-Southinequality but feeling that such ansince 1929-1930, (as male ap­Bend diocese.
amendment would not be the best
plicants have cent) female  increased  29  per­have  way  to  redress  the  legitimate  Mrs. , J .R. Mills, National Director of the NCCW, a federation  
Each  and  every  
man,  on  the  
foundations of his  
own  suffetings  
and  joys,  builds  
for all.  
-Camus  



VOTE YES 
in the lettuce boycott referendum today 
was more firm in opposition. She powers from the Constitution while expressed a fear that · the the states get theirs directly from legislation would "open up a the people. State power is inherent Pandora's box of legal im­and doesnJ need to be expressed. plications," among them in­Section three gives the states two validating all state protective years to amend or repeal offending 
legislation, creating no positive statutes before federal action. 
law to combat discrimination The difficulty in meeting the two­wiping out legal safeguard~ year deadline is a matter of protecting the family structure debate. Snyder thought it would be 
and ending the right of Congres~ easy for the states to find and and the states to enact any law that change their statutes since many 
differentiates. of .them have been comJ!uterized 
ERA is in no way connected with and others have beemcompiled for the abortion issue, said Snyder, the legislatures by interested shooting down another prevailing parties. For example, lawyers for myth. Opponents fear that the the Women's Political Caucus ERA might lead to "abortion on placed 160 offending laws on the demand." But abortion desks of Indiana state legislators legislation would not be effected by before that body voted on the prohibition of sex ratification. discrimination. Besides, the recent Griffiths feels that the com­Supreme Court issue makes this a pilation of the federal statutes more-or-less dead issue, added might be more time-eonsv.rnittg Snyder. With six years left before llie 
sta~ or federal enforcement expiration date, the rightists speak 
Section two of the-ERA created of possibly fielding candidates some turmoil for the ERA. The pledged to support the bill in the original bill which appeared in the state legislatures. House stated that the states and Supporters are still confiden~ in Congress would enforce the the bill's ratification by the thirty­
measure. The states were later eight states before March, 1979. removed from the bill's wording, They hope to continue their in keeping with that of the first campaign to educate legislatorf twenty-six amendments. and constituents to the ba8Jc 
Dean Shaffer stated that this principle of the amendment-. the wording is a technical legal ~eatment of women aS/individuals 
matter. The fact is, he said, that m federal, state and munici}l81the Federal Government gets its . legislation. 

..............____________________ 
the observer Monday, April 16, 1973
12 
Xavier sweep caps 3-1 weekend 
by Stan Urankar 
The sun finally shined for Notre Dame Sunday afternoon and gave coach Jake Kline's squad a chance at their long-{jelayed home opener. 
Backed by the pitching of Mark Pittman and Mitch Stoltz, the Irish mugged seven Xavier (0.) hurlers for 22 hits in routing the Musketeers by scores of 6-4 and 11­3. 
Mike Riddell used Tom Hansen's home run to its fullest in a 1-o triumph over Illinois State Saturday, and though the Redbirds came back to take the nightcap by a 7-2 count, coach Kline's gang was still mighty pleased with a three­out-of-four weekend. 
"We needed these wins badly, that's all there was to it," com­mented outfielder Ken Schuster who helped in the second game slugfest yesterday with a pinch hit home run. Howard Wood echoed the words of Schuster, and added, "It gave a lot of our guys con­fidence. We needed a weekend like catcher then unloaded his first hit a 7-3 edge. Schmidt's double got the Irish onthis with Michigan coming up." 
of the day, a towering triple off the Two walks and a hit batsmen the board, and a walk, Jim Smith's 
The Irish showed plenty of left field fence that tied the game. then loaded the sacks for Roemer safety, and an error were good for determination in the Cartier Field Pat Coleman singled designated in the third, and the South Holland, a second inning score. lidlifter, coming back for victories pinch runner Tom Miller Home Ill. native--yes, you guessed it-­Roy Troxell's two-out double tied after falling behind in both con­(all Irish home games are played tripled past left fielder Dennis it for the Musketeers in the third, 
tests. The nightcap rebound was under speed-up rules, allowing a Oberhelman to give Stoltz all the then the Cincinnati club moved especially gratifying as ND ripped runner for the pitcher and cat­breathing room he needed. The ahead an inning later on two walks, Xavier starter Kevin Lyons for cher), and after DPH Mike O'Neill freshman hurler went on to strand an error, and a fielder's choice. five first inning runs to offset (that one's for hitter) base hit nine Xavier base runners with Kline's Korps quickly rebounded Stoltz' shaky beginning that had Coleman to third, the third sacker inning-ending strikeouts in the for the winning runs, though. 
put the Musketeers up, 3-o. came racing home on a wild pitch third, fifth, and seventh, and notch Wood walked and Nussbaum 
Dick Nussbaum opened the to cap the big inning. his second complete game victory singled to right with one out in game by coaxing out a walk. Roemer tripled Schmidt home of the season. ND's half of the fourth. Hansen Hansen singled, and Pete Schmidt for another run in the second, and Notre Dame put Pittman ahead filled the sacks via a base on balls, walked to load the bases for Mark Schmitz followed with a with a run in each of the first two and Schmidt beat out an infield hit 
captain Bob Roemer. The senior double to deep center that gave ND innings. Nussbaum's single and that scored Wood. Roemer sent 


I:mprove:ment :marks ND grid scri:m:mage 
by Vic Dorr number-two offense on a 45-yard and Clements was three for six, Wayne Bullock, and Clements each Sportf Editor scoring drive-the first of the also with one aerial TD (a 24-yard scored behind that offensive line. spring against the first defense­screen pass to Casper). The big Best's touchdown was the first of There were no scores posted or mid-way through the workout, and tight end was the day's leading the afternoon, and came on a five­extra points kicked, but the of­halfback Tom Bake, working for receiver-he snagged six passes yard, right-side sweep behind fensive efforts in last Saturday's the number-three offense, capped for 118 yards and the two scores­center Joe Alvarado and guard Cartier Field scrimmage were the session by scooting 22 yards but wide receivers '·'ete Demmerle Frank Pomarico. But that score l'Vident nonetheless. around right end against his op­<three for 36 yards) and Kevin was set up by Brown, who carried posite numbers pn defense. Doherty (four for 50) also saw twice for 25 yards during the 45­
Seven touchdowns were scored plenty of service. yard drive.during the two-hour workout, and The scrimmage ended a week of 
five of those belonged to the hard-hitting practices,. and left But the pass-catch combinations Bullock's score came on the next number-one offense. There were Irish head coach Ara Parseghian weren't the only phase of the Notre possession by the first offense. good performances by first-line pleased with several facets of his Dame attack to impress Par­Clements engineered the drive, but quarterbacks Tom Clements and team's play. seghian. The Irish ground game, Bullock, in three plays, negotiated Cliff Brown, and by reserve QB which accounted for all of the the last 38 yards to the end zone. An
"There's been improvement,"

Rick Slager, and there was another scoring in the first scrimmage of eight-yard line plunge and a 20­
he said. "We got a bad start during

impressive showing · by tackle­the spring, produced five more yard flat pass from Clements put
the week because of the weather,

turned-tight end Dave Casper. touchdowns Saturday, and earned the ball on the 10, and the
but we've improved on contact and 

its own measure of approval. sophomore fullback swept in from
we're hitting better. There's been

And the offensive fireworks, there.
definite improvement in the "(Eric) Penick was running
when they came, were largely the Frosh QB Rick Slager answered results of improved timing and passing game as well­hard today," observed the ND Bullock's tally by leading the
particularly in the accuracy of coach, "and (Tom) Bake and
execution. Three of the first unit's 
second offense to its lone touch­

Tom Clements and Cliff Brown, <Russ) Kornman also ran well. We
tallies came on drives from mid­down of the day. Kornman got the
who both threw very well today." let the defense go again today-we
field, two came on short-range six-pointer-<>n a two-yard dive­
jaunts following turnovers,· and The two contenders for the let them run any coverages, any but Slager's running and passing
formations-but the offensive line
one sustained, 73-yard effort ended number-one quarterback slot were kept the drive moving.
had more consistency and handled 
in a turnover at the one. The other effective through the air. Brown 
A shoulder injury, possibly a

different situations better than it
two TD's belonged to the back-up completed 10 of 12 attempts for 133 separation, kept Slager from
did last week."
units. 
yards and one touchdown (a finishing out the scrimmage, but Freshman Rick Slager led the looping, 34-yard strike to Casper>, Tailback Art Best, fullback before he was sidelined the Ohio resident had clicked on seven of 11 
·· passes for 68 yards. 
Clements closed the scoring for the first unit after defensive end Jim Stock had covered a second­offense fumble on the 26-yard line. Clements moved quickly to a first down at the 14, and drew an added four downs when receiver Pete Demmerle was interfered with at the three. Two plays later,t Clements wiggled over left tackle for the score, and ParseghianIt turned the scrimmage over to the 
number three units. 
Despite the performances turned in by his number-one units, though, Parseghian was not completely satisfied. The Irish coach saw improvement offensively and defensively, but was still upset by assignment mistakes and tur­novers-particularly a pair of fumbles, one on the 13, the other on the one-which cost the first of­

~:~~'J,~~-~· -.. 
fense a pair of TD's. 

' • :·:.. w • 
-'~~ ·-~ .a.··-~.-,"'""'""' 
"Overall " he said "there were 

.... •, '.,.w 
some good things, 'but we still

~~4!~··--, ~ ~ .. ...:-:-~llll!iiiio:C! 
made some errors. We need im­

~ ;t ....., '--~ : ·.• . . . . 
~~:~ ,' ..~,~. ·~'; .. ,,;IJ,!!f.'l.. provement on overall reaction, on ~ •111... _;•. -~·-~ ...-missed assignments, and on ball­handling. But still," he concluded,
Cliff Brown aims a flare pass at tight end Dave Casper (88). Casper grabbed six passes for 
"generally speaking, it was an

118 yards and two TDs in Saturday's scrimmage. 
improved scrimmage." 

Nussbaum home on a fielder's 
choice, and Coleman put the Irish 
ahead for good with a line single to 
left. 
Smith <not Schmidt or Schmitz) 

tripled to open the fifth and gave 
Pittman an insurance run as Wood 
followed with a base hit into right. 
ND's junior fireballer struck out 

nine for his first victory, pitching 
out of bases-loaded jams in the 
sixth and seventh to preserve the 
win. "The wind bothered me early 
in the game because it was making 
my fast ball rise up and out of the 
strike zone," Pittman noted af­
terwards. "I was forced to go with 
my curve ball a lot, but it worked 
out surprisingly well." 
Roemer finished opening day 

action with eight RBis <seven in 
the nightcap) and junior Coleman 
collected four hits in six trips. Pete 
Schmidt als<• went four-for-six and 
scored three runs, but it was hard 
to pick out individual stars in the 
twin triumph. 
"We really put together a team 

effort so that we could win these 
first ones at home," commented 
Roemer. "The fans we got out 
here were just great. We'll do our 
best to keep winning, and we just 
hope that the fans will come out 
and support us." 
Riddell finally managed to get a 

run in his favor at Bloomington­
Normal (no fooling, that's where 
Illinois State is at>. The senior 
righthander had allowed only three 
earned runs in each of his last two 
outings, but his teammates had 
failed to get him one in return at 
either Tulsa or Wisconsin. 
Left fielder Hansen fixed that 

with a sixth inning shot that curved 
around the foul pole on the right 
field line. The round-tripper was 
Hansen's first of the year, and 
gave Riddell the needed edge in his 
three-hit duel with the Redbirds' 
Mark Wronkiewicz. 
The lone Irish loss of the 

weekend saw lSU end a string of 16 
consecutive shutout innings by ND 
pitchers. Lefty Rick Eich wasn't 
up to par, dishing out six walks, 
five hits, and five runs in less than 
three innings of duty. That was all 
junior John DeWerff needed, as the 
Redbird southpaw went on to 
handcuff the Irish on six hits for his 
second victory. 
DeWerff went through the first dozen Irishmen perfectly before Roemer singled to open the fifth. Schmitz followed with another base hit, and Coleman singled home a run one out later. 
Back-to-hack doubles by designated hitter Gary Mayer and Smith got another ND marker in the seventh, but it was too little too late. 
Bob Stratta relieved Eich and 

surrendered a pair of unearned 
markers before Ed Hrabcsak 
came on to pitch scoreless ball in 
the last two stanzas. The loss was 
credited to Eich, now 1-3 on the 
season. 
Notre Dame begins a four-game Michigan trip Tuesday with a pair against the Wolverines in Ann Arbor. The Irish then travel to. Ferris State College Wednesday afternoon for their first meeting in history with the Wheels. 
Bookstore b-ball 
Wednesday 
Heavy Bailers 22, Bukes 20 

(overtime) 
Canucks 21, Cherry Pickers 13 
Schmucks 21, Buffaloes 18 
UCDH 21, Flying Circus 7 

Cardiac Five 21, Alice's Jam­mers 17 Joe's Bar and Grill 21, Hedgehogs 16 Checkered Demons 21, Wazoo's Wonders 10 Zephyrs 21, Arm and Hammer 16 Thursday RA's et. al. 21, Plish Screaming Eagles 18 Mufugs 21, Ragin' Cajuns 18 Blond Bombers 21, Gremlins 16 
City Bounds 21, 25th Street 17 
31 Club 21, Subculture 13 
Diamond Leg 21, D-Men 18 

Upchuck and the Vomits 21, Buffalo Bills 12 
.. 






