On The Inside 
Pears discusses crime wave... p. 2 

serving the notre dome -st. mory':s community 
Tuesday, January 30, 1973
Vol. VII No. 69 


by Greg Rowinski Staff Reporter 
The armed robbery of five Alumni residents Sunday night could have been a Jack Webb production, ac­eording to Dave Burch, one of the victims. 
But it was a real experience for the five and a visitor, Tf'rry Schneider. as they lay tied and gagged while three black youths rifled the suite. rooms 208-210. 
The drama began at 9:30 as four of the roommates watched--Lawrence of Arabia on television. The three robbers knocked and were invited in. 
The three took positions and demanded money. Their demand. which was first received as a joke, gained a grim reality, as they produced two pistols and long-bladed knife. 
After emptying the roommates' wallets, the three 
hound the residents with shoelaces, bathrobe belts, and 
undershirts and used socks to gag them. They then 
began to rifle the rooms. 
Their operation took on the appearances of a well­t•xecuted game plan until some complications arose. 
Dave Burch: Alumni robbery like a "Jack Webb production." 
Pistols used to reinforce demands 
Theft victims bound, gagged 

The robbers were not able to "take all night to search the room. said Burch, and they "couldn't find a huge amount of money." The robbers appeared to expect tci be able to "trap the roommates." suggested Burch, and proceed with 
their crime uninterrupted. But they were unaware that people would drop in through the evening and prevent such privacy. 
The first to intrude on the robbers were Dennis Lannigan. another roommate, and Terry Schneider, a visitor from St. Louis. 
Schneider entered first to find a gun pointed at her head and the four roommates trussed up on the floor. Lannigan saw the four on the floor and thought it was "some kind of joke." The look on Schneider's face and the gun pointed at his own head convinced him that it wasn't. He and Schneider joined the other four on the floor. 
The rooms were getting crowded with the two latest additions. joining Steve Dermody, Steve Tesso, Bob Lee and Burch. The robbers, with nowhere else to 
walk. often stepped on the backs of the victims. Besides the threats of the gun and knife and the tight tying, this was the roughest treatment the victims received. 
The three robbers, realizing their miscalculation, were "pretty shook", according to the residents. They had good control of their captives, now numbering six, but the very number was upsetting to them. 
The three had begun their crime very professionally, not using names and keeping their faces averted as much as possible. But they tended to let their guard down as the evening progressed. 
Opinions vary among the residents regarding their personal danger. The guns pointed at their heads were instrumental in "keeping cool" as the robbers suggested and threats to shoot if no more money was found showed that the three meant business. But cash was the primary interest of the invaders. 
Gerry Hill's knock again interrupted the thieves' activities. Hill responded to "Who is it?" with his own question. regarding the question as a joke being played by the occupants. He was answered as one of the three opened the door and pointed a gun at his head. 
Hill saw his roommates on the floor and feared that they were dead already. "Getting out was my only chance" was his reaction, so he turned and ran, "screaming my fool head off." 
The three decided it was time to leave the scene of the crime. and also ran out of the room. In their haste they left one of the two pistols. 
The three headed out of the hall as Hill ran down the hall. The rescued captives h>cked their door and called security. 
continued on page 3 
War continues with small-scale attacks 
by Charles Mohr win semantic arguments with area hundreds of yards to the right or movements that would extend said VietCong units had come into 
(C) 1973New York Times News bombs and bullets in isolated of the road. each party's area of control or 
the area Friday night. drivingService areas. Then South Vietnamese HU-1 would result in contact between away a government militia 
armed helicopters repeatedly fired opposing armed forces and clashes platoon.
Cam Long, Sourth Vietnam-­rockets into the area and staffed it which might take place."
road blocks
South Vietnamese forces were with fast-firing miniguns. Other Villagers said government openly ignoring the cease-fire helicopters circled the vicinity on Section B of the main agreement troops attacked to clear the road agreement in the area northwest of The Saigon government clearly what appeared to be recon­itself says that "The armed forces yesterday and were driven back Saigon today, but on a relatively seemed to have made a decision but resumed the attack this
naissance missions. of the two South Vietnamese 
small scale and selectively. that it would not tolerate the morning.
parties shall remain in place."
Government spokesmen in Communists' successful efforts to americans On the same route near Trang
Saigon were charging that there block key roads and lines of In practice. these provisions Bang, 31 miles northwest ofhad been hundreds of Viet Cong eummunications just before the seem to be about as useless as 
eease-fire. On a much smaller Saigon. the road was cut yester­
and North Vietnamese violations Americans were not involved in others that stipulate that the of the cease-fire since it sup­scale. government artillery was any of the violence. American Vietnamese parties should act with day. posedly began at 8 a.m. Sunday. shelling the fringes of hamlets field advisers were withdrawn "a view to ending hatred and 
under military pressure from Viet from Vietnamese units Saturday, enmity" and in "the spirit of­
'drive last'
occupation Cong and North Vietnamese in­well before the cease-fire deadline. mutual nonelimination." 
fantrymen. 
But today a steady stream of
According to conversations wiith
But to a foreign observer touring refugees civilian and some military traffic 
routes I and 22 in an area 30 to 45 grenades other journalists. similar fighting was going through after heavy
took place today and Sunday on
miles northwest of Saigon for the government fire had forced the 
last two days. there was no clear Houte 13-leading north from Saigon It was clear that the Viet Cong enemy troops back a short Pvidence. l<'or instance, at this hamlet to Lai Khe and on Route 15 leading and North Vietnamese tried to distance. 
What was happening was that about 10 miles South East of the south to the coastal city of Vung exploit the approaching cease-fire 
provincail capital of Tay Ninh, the Tau. late last week by closing such Government troops advisedSaigon forces were trying with road to Saigon was closed because roads as Route 1. If a true travellers to drive fast past the bad 
eonsiderable success, to drive awav Communist forces that had of the presence of an undetermined 'no redeployments' "standstill cease-fire" had taken stretch. There was no trouble 
number of Communist soldiers in place. all traffic to Tay Ninh, for going northwest. Coming back in
bloc.ked roads and occupied hamlets in a last minute offensive the northern part of the hamlet, One of the protocols of the Paris instance. would have been either the afternoon the crumpled bodies 
shortly before the ceasefire. about 45 miles from Saigon. agreement is entitled "Concerning blocked or would have had to pass of two Vietnamese girls were seen 
The sounds of an American B-52 Late this morning and into early the Cease-Fire in South Vietnam through an area of Communist in the middle of the road near their bombing raid could also be heard afternoon South Vietnamese troops and the Joi111t Military Com­eontrol--even such "control" overturned motor scooter. faintly from Cambodia, a few were throwing grenades and firing missions." eonsisted only of a few men 
Since they appeared to havemiles away. weapons sporadically but at times Article A of this protocol says erouched in foxholes off the road. 
been killed by artillery shells thatAmerican sources said Com­furiously. The sound of occasional that as soon as the cease-fire It was also clear that the were falling close to the road. cars.
munist troops in a few cases were return fire from AK-47 automatic becomes effective "all ground, government forces did not stand buses and army vehicles did notmoving about in South Vietnamese rifles could also be heard. river. sea and air combat forces of still. stop but raced past to a safer area. 
uniforms. Earlier. in the morning, two the parties of South Vietnam shall 
There was no full-scale South Vietnamese propeller-driven remain in place. That is, in order Refugees from the fighting were A South Vietnamese lieutenant 
resumption of tl '''-·tnam War. skyraiders and two South Viet­to ensure a stable cease-fire, there squatting in this hamlet today as said the eirls had been hit and 
Instead. there npt to namese jets dropped bombs on an shall be no major redeployments the shooting went on nearby. They killed by a speeding truck. 



warld 
briefs 
ll") 11172 New York Times 
Phnompenh--While the war in Vietnam may be sputtering to a cease-fire, the war in Laos continues. Government troops, American­sponsored irregulars, armed children in uniform and American-paid Thai soldiers engaged as "volunteers" were manning a major defensive position Monday in Muong Kassy, on the gravel highway between the administrative capital of Vientiane and royal capital of Luang Prabang. 
Cam Long. South Vietnam--South Vietnamese forces were un­mistakably ignoring the cease-fire agreement in the area northwest of Saigon. but on a relatively small scale and a selective basis. Saigon g?vernment spokesmen were claiming that there had been hundreds ol VIetcong and North Vietnamese cease-fire violations since the t'ease-fire supposedly began at 8 a.m. Sunday. 
Washington--The Nixon administration's new budget proposes a drastic pruning of federal sol'ial welfare programs that, in effect, calls for the repeal of major programs initiated by the Truman, Eisenhower. Kennedy and Johnson administrations. But the total social spending called for in the 1974 budget is higher than lasty year's. 
4:30 p.m.--seminar, pollination and pollinr~tor diversity in viola, dr. andrew beattie, galvin life science auditorium 
7:00 p.m.--meeting, notre dame science quar­terly, room 118, nieuwland science hall. 
8:00 
p.m.--lecture, chile: non-violent social change, ken jameson, william Iewers, claude pomerleau, library lounge 

8:00 
p.m.--lecture, collective bargaining in higher education, woodley b. osborne, unversity club 






Robberies hit ND 
by Dave Rust 
"Our resident hall thefts," said 
Staff Reporter 
A wave of thefts has been sweeping the campus since the 

. school year resumed Jan. 16, climaxed by Sunday night's armed robbery in Alumni Hall. 
Campus Security Director Ar­thur Pears has no exact figures on the number of thefts, burglaries and robberies that have occurred, hut admits that this recent rash has been "abnormally severe." 
During the past weekend, thefts w£'re reported in Farley and Sorin, besides the armed excursion into Alumni. In addition, a couple of would-be thieves <possibly the sam£' who entered Sorin-their descriptions matched l went to the Dome offices on the fourth floor of LaFortune Saturday night at around ll::30, were told by Dome Editor-in-Chief Mike Paulius that there was no money to be had, then 
ransacked the floor. breaking into lockers and forcibly entering the student union Campus Academic Commission office and rifling the drawers and closets inside. 
"\Pauliusl definitely saw them" at work. said Pears. and "he can identify them." On the previous w£'ekend this same group might also have forcibly entered the Observer offices on the floor below and stolen several items, including a cassette recorder. 
Scenes of other thefts reported :his semester include Flanner, (~race. the basement of LaFor­tun£'. the Center for Continuing Education. and Howard, where a particularly large theft allegedly occurred. This is not a complete list. 
Why all the recent robberies? Spcurity chief Pears does not h£'lieve they have been "inside \student-perpetrated) jobs." 
"It would appear that we have som£' people from downtown who are hard up for money and drugs," l'Xplained Pears. "The Alumni llall incident is very similar to what's been happening in the 1residential! South Bend area-the thieves break in and demand marijuana or money." 
Ill' places most of the motivation lor the crime wave on the search for drugs and ways of financing the drug habit. 

"Pl•rhaps a source has been dri£'d up somewhere by some law l'nforcem£'nt agency." said Pears. 
"We don't know. But we've traced l'ach instance 1of theft. robbery and burglary l to drugs." 
Forcible breaking and entering has been rare on campus, said l'£'ars. even in this recent rash of robberies. The only reported in­cid£'nce of it was that attempted by the Sorin-CAC thieves last Saturday evening. 
NICKlE'S 
Ladies Night TONIGHT! 
Mixed Drinks-­Two for the price of one 
8-11 pm 
Pl'ars. "have come about from 
students not locking their rooms. 
The thefts of Howard. Farley and 
Sorin all took place in rooms whose 
doors were unlocked." 
Dome chief Paulius seems to 
contradict this generalization. His 
understanding is that the thieves 
W£'re caught trying to force entry 
into a vending machine. An R.A. 
caught them at it. they threw their 
dawhammer at him hitting his 
wrist. then fled. 
Even in the Alumni incident said Pl'ars. "(The robbers) gained l'ntrance by telling a hall resident they were looking for some student in particular. and then convincing him to use his card to let them in." Alumni is a card-controlled access hall. 
P£'ars did not blame the thefts and burglaries on any laxity on the security force's part. or on any W£'ak point in its procedure. 
"Wl''ve got 22 residence halls on campus." said Pears. "and they have a lot of rooms. And the student center is wide open in the Pvening. 
J<:ven if we could concentrate £'xclusively on one hall we still wouldn't have the men to stand at all the doors and guarantee that no theft would take place. You can't ask a police force to guarantee 
that a house won't be robbed." 
Pears plans on continuing normal security procedure-­security men walking the campus, door checks \shake them to see if locked. lock them if aren't. explore inside if any evidence of entrance), and manning the telephones for calls from students reporting fresh incidents. 
"Wt• get a lot of crank calls," said Pl'ars. "but we answer every one." P£'ars' advice to students is 

r_:..::=--..:::.:.::.::__:__:=~:..._:__.::::::============--~~~~~~~~~~~~~=~=--=====::=:==:~=:~---. 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE BRINGS YOU A FANTASTIC 
THE GRASSROOTS 

THE BEACH BOYS MOTHER EARTH THE MAMAS & THE PAPAS 
LOBO 

THE FOUR SEASONS RICK NELSON 
ALBUMS WITH SUGGESTED LIST
JOHN MAYALL 

PRICE VALUES T0$9.98 NOW ALL RECORDS ONLY 
Another Hit Record Spectucular 

Hundreds of stereo records to choose 
Take advantage of these fabulous
from 
prices 



camPusf=ii:»BOAC;;m=E~'iOPETM''j 
three-fold: lock doors. don't let strangers into the hall. and report any strangers already inside to hall personnel if a resident's pl'rfunctory question or two ad­dr£'ssed to them aboul their being in the hall is not answered to the satisfaction of the resident. 
This seems enormously im­practical. and Pears admits that one "has to be realistic" in the case of large parties and visits from students from other halls. 
Yet. it is the hall resident who stands to lose if access into the hall is not controlled. 
"Each hall should take it upon itself." said Pears. "to determine that £'ach person they see in the hall belongs in.the hall." 
Arthur Pears: Search for drugs behind recent thefts. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester ex­cept vacations by the students of the l'niversity of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchesed for $8 per semester ( 14 per year) from the Observer, : ox Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

~~~~ I  18 Days, May 21-June 8 only $180.00, Round Trip  ~~~~ I  
lll\  CHICAGO-LONDON-CHICAGO  \jjj\  
U  Sign-ups at Travel Bureau  :~~~!  
:\jj~  Sign-up Deadline: FEB. 2  :~~~j  

:?.::::::::::~:=:~:::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 




Tuesday, January 30, 1973 the observer 
3 

Five Alumni residents held at gunpoint 
continued from page I 
Another Alumni resident saw the three in flight and pursued them, at a distance of about sixty to C'ighty yards. Going out of the door. he ran for about twenty yards. until he heard a shot and stopped. The three continued to flee toward O'Shaughnessy Hall, then cut between that hall and the l<~ngineering Building. 
The telephone line to security was busy. Their call to the main gate was somewhat garbled and not understood by the guard on duty. Finally security was reached. Officers, contacted by some other party reached the scene. The guard at the Main Gate saw no one pass but an officer heard three reports identified as .22 shots. Security officers nrrived at the scene within fifteen minutes claiming their arrival was delayed when the callers failed to 
Thousands flee front lava of 'dorntant' volcano in Iceland 
by R. Thomas Thues Staff Reporter 

;uoo inhabitants of Heymaey Island in Iceland fled from columns of molten lava as a presumably dormant volcano spewC'd molten lava 70 yards into the ocean 
Tuesday. after the first eruption, townspeople expected to return to their town within a few days. Wednesday. however. two more volcanic craters erupted in the fishing capital. By Wednesday the rift was threatening to split the 2.5 mile wide island in two. 
Although no casualties were reported it is doubtful that IIC'ymaey's $2 million fishing et·onomv will be restored to nor­mal for' many months. 
Thousands of rescue boat lights Tuesday night contrasting with the blazing volcano and pictured the terror and disbelief that such an Pruption could occur after 1000 ~·ears of volcanic inactivity. The last men to see the rage of the IIC'Igafjell volcano were the Viking t•xplorers of 1\64 A.D. 
Asked what would cause a and the mid-Atlantic ridge ofvolcano to erupt after more than 1000 vears Father Michael Mur­

Iceland are merely breathing gills phy. Chairman of the Notre Dame for a constantly growing earth. (;C'ology Department. commented, 
What is considered disaster by the "1000 years in the 41 2 billion years fledgling human race is just the 
early growing pains of our youngor geoiogy are nothing more than a earth. The sinking of Iceland would \\"ink of an eye." 

be the result of no more than theMurphy noted that rifts like the formation of an age wrinkle on the

San Andreas fault of western North America. including Nicaragua, face of the earth, Murphy implied. 
GSU SKI TRIP Sat. Feb. 17 5-10 p.m. Tow, Rental, Lesson 
1st 50 $3.00•reg. $6.00 
Swiss Valley , Mish. Pay by Feb. 1 Jim Sullivan Rm. 1 021l NSH For Info. Call 272-8158 
._:f:!Y~~ 

give a room number. 
The revolver left by the robbers was a .32. It will be sent: to In­dianpolis for ballistic and fingerprint processing, said Arthur Pears. head of security. 
No gloves were used, so Pears saw a chance of finding a latent print. But the rugged surface of the pistol's handle would make such a discovery difficult. 
The six Alumni residents will be questioned by St. Joseph County police today and will look through the department's mugbooks for possible identification of their robbers. 
The sheriff's department has jurisdiction in this case since armed robbery is a felony. 
St. Joe's County police report that the conduct of the crime is similar to that involved in six cases in the last two weeks in South Bend. in which robbers enter a house and rob the occupants without any ill treatment. 
Pears believes that the three were not students. No student, he suggested would be "crazy enough" to take the chance of being identified. 
The incident is frightening, said Pears. in its pitting of armed criminals against unarmed vic­tims and security. But he cannot foresee the arming of his force because of this one incident 
"We are not in the business of apprehending outsiders," he said, but in "protecting the interests <of the Notre Dame community.)" 
The robbers foiled Alumni's hall-security system. A fourth 
unidentified youth had accompanied the three into the hallway of Alumni. He asked a passing Alumni resident for Lee's room number. Seeing the youth on the phone. and thinking him familiar to Lee. the resident let the four in with his identification card. · 

The Winery 

Michiana's Only Wine Shop 

*Gormet Food *Cheese *Books *Wine Glasses 

2426 Lincoln Way West Mishawaka 259-9046 4 8/ks East of Ironwood 
John J· O'Hanlon-Prop., ND 1 65 

. ~ 




ATTENTION SOPHOMORES 1 
1 
Are you aware that the Army ROTC Two-Year Program at the University of Notre Dame prepares you for an 
I 

officer's commission the the United States Army while paying you$1 00 per month during your Junior and Senior Years? Do you know that you are also eligible to compete for subsidiz4ad medical schooling with full pay and allowances, subsidized Graduate study with full pay and allowances for two years flight 
training or Ranger and Airborne Schools? 
Applicants must pass an interview by a board of officers successfully complete written tests be medically qualified and howe at least two academic years of undergraduate or graduate work remaining commencing in the Fall Semester 1973. Upon being accepted into the program students must attend a six-week summer camp after their sophomore year. They then take Military ScieJr~ce training with those Notre Dame cadets already in the ROTC Program. 
j
Two-Year program participants are also eligible to compete for Two and One-Year scholarships which 
pay full tuition, books and academic fees. 
1
,
, 
INTERESTED? For more information visit Captah1 Weimer at the Military Science Building on the Notre Dame Campus or telephone 283·6264i65. 
THE MORcYOU KNOW ABOUT NOTRE DAME ARMY ROTC, THE BETTER IT LOOKS · 

THE OBSERVER Far What lt!ls Warth 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 


Notre Dame

John Abowd Dan Thornton Editor-in-Chief Business Manager
NEWS: 283-1715 EDITORIALS: 283-8661 Don Ruane BUSINESS: 283-7471 Joe Butler 

Fans 

Executive Editor Advertising Manager 
Tuesday, January 30, 1973 

dan ruane 
Notre Dame student fans have done it again, matching their per­formances at the Miami football game and at various hockey games. This time the added dimension of national television let the subway

A Shade of Gray alumni from New York to California see what sort of real alumni material come out of this university. 
The past weeks have driven a point home hard and fast--something must be done about Notre Dame Security. Arthur Pears, Director of Campus Security claims that his job is not to apprehend outsiders but to protect the interests of the Notre Dame community. Yet: 
--Sunday night six students are held captive in a room in Alum 1i Hall. Seventy nollars is stolen. 
-Overthrweekend, would-be burglars entered the offices of the Dome and the Studeat Union. 
--Also, over the weekend, thefts were reporterf in Sorin Hall and the Observer offices. 
--Further thefts have been committed in Howard, Grace, Farley and Flanner Halls. The Observer offices have also been broken into before and over $60 was stolen. 
These incidents are not enough to sound the alarm of a general crisis, but they are indicative of something that is rapidly developing. The campus is getting reputation of an heasy hit. The suspects are not apprehended, the pickings are plentiful, and security presents n'o barrier to youthful thieves who can pass as college students. All in all, it seems that Pears and his department are not doing the job as they have defined it, for 
the interests of the community at this time are in peril. 
Student complaints about security have been around as long as security has been, but two particularly well-founded 


Notice to SMC Students 
The second semester bill for Saint Mary's students included a card for the $2.00 Observer yearly subscription fee. Only 338 of these cards were returned with payment. Many thanks to these people but this is not sufficient for us to continue our present delivery system. 
Jason Lindower, vice president for fiscal affairs, has arranged a system which would allow direct payment of the $2.00 fee on Wednesday of this week. A list of those people who have paid will be posted on the wall outside the cashier's office. Those who have not paid may do so from 9:30 to 12:00 and 1:00 to 3:30 at the cashier's window. 
The fee may also be paid by mail but Lindower emphasized that only checks and not cash should be mailed. The card which accompanied the Saint Mary's bill is not needed whetheryou pay in person or by mail. 
Our present method of delivery is not practical unless 80 percent or more subscribe. It would not be fair to those
r 
who have paid to subsidize the sub­scriptions of those who have not. However, no other method of delivery is financially feasible. Failure to subscribe in sufficient numbers would force a cutback in Saint Mary's service. 
This would be the third year that Saint Mary's students for some reason or other have not paid the full subscription fee for the newspapaers which we have delivered. It's not fair to the Notre Dame students who do pay the full subscription fee and it can't continue. 
John Abowd complaints have been registered in the past week. 

The victims of Sunday night's robbery in Alumni contended that they had to convince security that a robbery had actually taken place. Once the officer was convinced, security showed up in fifteen minutes to investigate. 
A second complaint was registered by Pat McLaughlin, President of Pangborn Hall. Pangborn survived a bomb threat earlier in the year, but with no thanks to security. An anonymous phone call in­formed security of the threat and they failed to even investigate. The extent of reaction to the call was that the maids and janitors of the hall were given the day off. 
Yet, an anonymous phone call about a male living on Lewis Hall brings im­mediate response. 
The problems of security on a college campus are many and this is recognized, but improvement must be found somewhere--perhaps in the attitudes of those who man the security posts. Protection of theca mpus and its people is more important than what cars gain access to the campus. 
This rash of thefts has pushed the issue to the fore and it is not one that can be sloughed off waiting for it to blow over. If security cannot find a way to better protect the campus than the future in­deed looks perilous. 
Security exists to serve the campus, not to decide the morals of the people who live there. Once they get these priorities straight perhaps then they will set about curing the problems which are coloring the immediate future a shade of gray. 
Jerry Lutkus 
Night Editor: Kathy Schwille Ass't Night Editor: Robert Baker Layout: Mary Romer Sports Night Editor: Vic Dorr
the observer 
Pictures: J. Michael Phillips Day Editor: Jim Gresser Typists: Barb Norcross, Tom Modglin, Howard Halle. Steve Roper Night Controller: John Flannigan 

Actually those fans who cursed the referees, tossed shoes, coins, and a· bag of some sort of powder aren't regular alumni material, but irregular. Notre Dame probably has the finest alumni around when you consider the financial support they give this university, and the services they provide for themselves and future domers through local clubs activities. 
The UCLA game was the first basketball game I've seen this year, and it might be the last because I don't want to be associated with the fans mentioned above. I'm not that excited about Notre Dame sports anymore. but I like to go to events which promise exceptional per­formances or have something big at stake, like a record or a cham­pionship. I don't go to listen to some idiot curse or watch him throw objects into the arena. 
Sure the referees missed some, maybe a lot of calls, but they missed them both ways especially underneath the boards. I don't think they did an exceptional job and geriatrics shouldn't be allowed to wear striped shirts. but they did do their job adequately. 
I realize the fans were extra psyched since we were playing the national champs, who were also on the verge of setting a win streak record. I realized we were the last team to beat them. I saw that game and the fans behaved themselves even though it was close all the way. I realize that had we upset the Bruins, we could have jumped somewhere into the national rankings. 
However, these considerations do not provide license to heave sneakers and shoes which can cut a scalp; or break a nose, tooth or pair of glasses of someone who turns around at an inoppurtune moment. They don't give license to throw coins which can also cut, chip, blind or cause an ankle or knee injury on the court. Likewise for. the bag of powder. 
Profanity isn't licensed either. Notre Dame students don't even know how to boo properly. Maybe everybody should spend a semester in Philadelphia and learn the art. People are offended by such behavior which can't be justified. The profaner is crying sour grapes, and admitting he can't accept the fact that Notre Dame was no match for the Bruins. Why compliment UCLAwhen you can tear down the referees and make illogical arguments based on second guessing. If you think Larry Hollyfield was bush, you don't think very well. 
We have seen and heard all of this before. Criticism was made when women became cheerleaders, and the targets of toilet paper rolls. Since then they have dodged more tissue, oranges and ice balls; not to mention deadly bottles and cans filled with urine or beer. 
Criticism has also been leveled at hockey fans who throw coins, hot dogs andsievesinto the rink. What does it take to get through to you people that your playing dangerous jokes? 
All of the blame can't be leveled at the students. Much of it stems from this university's idea of in loco parentis. This surrogate mother of ours. when she discovers a problem, makes a gesture of discipline and then returns to being the forgiving mother. 
If you catch a guy throwing a can og veer throw him out of the stadium. and suspend him for a semester. That person is more a danger than a legal adult violating some parietal rule. Ushers don't do their full job at sporting events. You can't expect us to believe somebody is just "feeling his oats" when he does something like that. He is probably crazy drunk or stoned to say the least. 
And the same thing goes for students who get busted downtown. A phone call goes to the dean of students and, depending on the seriousness of it all, the student is probably released. Fine if the University wants to help the student find counsel or post bond, but it is not the University's responsibility to argue a law breaker free on the basic premise that the person is just a college student out for a little fun after a week in the library. 
Such action is not fair to the student, or to his peer who gets charged with drunk and disorderliness while out for a little fun after a week in some garage or behind some machine. Students know what the laws are and they should be dealt with the same as any non-student. 



death: the obscene conspiracy of silence ~ 
j 
(C) 1973 New York Times News Service 
Death as a Fact of Life. by David Hendin. 25a..gages. Norton. $7.50 
"I don't understand what I'm supposed to do." Tolstoy said on his deathbed--and neither do most of us. The conspiracy of silence with which we surround the sub­ject of dying led Geoffrey Gorer, the British anthropologist, to coin the phrase "the pornography of death." But a "good death" is an indispensable end to a good life--so crucial. in fact. that a German writer called it the "obstetrics of the soul." 
To die with dignity is important not only to the dying person, but 
also to his or her survivors, who will always be able to remember the one they loved in this light. 
According to David Hendin in his "Death as a Fact of Life," dying today is often rendered obscene by technology. Many patients are kept alive when they are no longer human beings, but simple cir­culatory systems, breathing but otherwise unresponsive tissue. Under these circumstances, life may sometimes be more terrifying than death. The dying person's r-elatives and friends are elbowed away from him by machines. And since these machines interfere with the natural course of decline, no one knows exactly when death will come and the patient often expires with only technology for company. In this connection, the author quotes Theodore Fox's famous remark: "We shall have to 
learn to refrain from doing things merely because we know how to do them." 
Hendin quotes surveys to show that most dying people would prefer to talk about it, and are greatly relieved when the silence is broken. I know that as I read his book. I felt my own anxieties about death first articulated, then partially assuaged. It is therapeutic to bring that im­memorial enemy of ours out into the light. As the author points out, for some of us the threat of death can have an integrative rather than a disruptive function. It can make us see our life as a coherent whole and give us an opportunity to sum it up emotionally and in­tellectually--to deny the fashionable charge of "meaninglessmess or absurdity." 
Accepting death is not necessarily a form of resignation, of giving up: it may be a positive reorientation. We can look back over our lives as well as forward to its end. We can congratuulate ourselves on what we have done and reverse the old saw that "You ean't take it with you." By renouncing the terrible duty of pretendil,g. HPndin says, we can 


FREE FLYING LESS NS 
PLUS $9,800 INCOME YOUR FIRST YEAR 
And that's only the start of your career as a pilot/navigator. An Air Force officer. You'll acquire valuable experience that will pay off in civilian life like a head start on a commereial flylnl career . • .• or impressive executive credentials to go with the degree you're elrnine now: proven leadership ability and million-dollar responSibility. You'll e•n from $9,800 to $16,000. Benefits includine30 days paid vacation annually, tree world-wide air travel, medical care and much more. If you're between 201fz and 261fz, a senior or graduate student, you may qualify. 
109 E. LaSoUe St. SOUTH BEND, IND. 46601 PhoM: 233-4747 
take the bandages off our fears and our feelings and die with love in­stead of lies as the last thing we hear. 
The author has done a brilliant and highly sensitive job of bringing together the literature of death-­from the need for revising our legal. medical and psychological criteria to the fact that the dead are forcing the living into an ever­decreasing space. He discusses the science of cryonics, or freezing the body in the hope of future resuscitation (cost $20,000); the case for and against euthanasia; the need to train doctors to face death as well as to fight it; the "hospices" being built for dying people. so that they can spend their last days in as homelike an at­mosphere as their medical needs permit: the advantages of cremation and its relative un­popularity in the Unites States and more. 
I found the chapter on "Children and Death" especially moving. Hendin knows how to evoke a feeling as well as most novelists and he is never, as far as I can remember. guilty of mere sen­timentality in dealing with the · most highly charged subject in our emotional repertory. Warning us against feeding inane euphemisms to children. he cites the case of a little boy who was told the his dead mother "went up into the sky." 
Shortly afterwards, the boy was taken on a visit by airplane and was v~ry sad and disappointed because he had looked on every cloud but had not seen his mother. Informed that his infant brother had been picked up by God and taken to heaven. another child kept his windows locked, refused to eross open spaces and played only in the shade of trees for fear of the same thing would happen to him. 
Unacknowledged death haunts 
us far more effectively than the 
ghosts of our childhood. The 
author feels that the more fully it is 
faced. the sooner we are likely to 
recover from the shock of 
someone's death. If we do not 

anatole broyard l j j
make peace with them and about the prospect. James replied sexual experience with someone 
l
separate ourselves from the dead that he had !ivied his life and done we love. it is natural to feel sleepy. 
through appropriate periods of his work. Death held no terrors.fl[)r I mention these two remarks 
mourning and grief, we may find it him. because I feel that, somewhere ' 
difficult to attach ourselves to Edmund Bergler, the between them, we may find the 
anyone who might help replace psychiatrist, remarks in one of his answer to one: of life's most in-
them afterwards. many books that. after a satisfying timidating questions. 
Though there is not a superfluous lllllJDDI111111ID111110JI)JllllHIIJJIIWHIJIIIIIIIHWUHRIDIIIDUIUUIUIIIIUIIIIUIRHUJIIHIIIIIIIIJI}f 
page in "Death as a Fact of Life," I i round myself--emotionally, not : morbidly--drawn to those passages s 
dealing with the dying person. 5 When Hendin speaks of the s indignity of deterioration, I s remember the humiliation I saw in 5 my own father's face when he was ,~ a rube goldberg tangle bf tubes and 5 life-coercing machines. His dif-5 ficulties were increased by his iii
"stiff upper lip" philosophy that~ locked both of us in the anguish of 5! all that we wanted to, and could not 5 say. A terrible loneliness lurked in§ his eyes. but it was too late for him § to learn or to change. 5 
What the author does not say 5
because it may be beyond the 5 
scope of his intent is that our entire !5 life is a preparation for our death, 5 and we may expect to die well (!r i ~adly depending on how w~ ~ave § hved. Freud told a story of vtstting 5 William James at a time when the i American psychologist and § philosopher had a brush with death a in the form of a heart attack. He E could not refrain from asking 5 
James afterward how he had felt iuniiUIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIUHIUIIIUIHIIHIIIIUIIUIUUIIIUWIHIIIIIIWIIIIIIIIIIIIIIif 

HOW ARE THINGS AT HOME? 
Long distance still is the next best thing to being there. And you can save money by calling nights or weekends. 

@ Indiana Bell 
!
SPECIAL 5 SCHOLARSHIP !
5 
5
OfFER § 
il 
~ 
CLASS OF 1975 ONLY 5 
I 
iii 

S
CHOLARSHIP INCLUDES: 2-year tuition...free! _ $100 monthly. Book fees paid, lab fees paid, etc. I 
DO YOU QUALIFY? Talk to the Professor of I! Aerospace Studies at the University of Notre Dame. i Building 5. Call 283-6635 for further information (If iii 
1 I f 1 -• iii 

you re c ass o 76, next year IS your year) ~ 
DEADLINE: Application deadline is 23 February i5 1973. Act Now! § Ei 
5 5 5 FIND YOURSELF A SCHOLARSHIP IN AIR 5 FORCE ROTC 5 
5 


--------------·-~­
. .. on pe~ce and others 

And so I am not outraged at wished there was something I Nixon's ordering of those bom­could do to relieve their suffering. bings. I am thankful because they I had never realized how bad the The Peace have brought "peace". a feeling accident had been or actually very similar to the American could have been until my return people's opinion of the dropping of home. I saw the pictures and I J<:ditor: the atom bombs at the end of World read the articles. Then, as now my War II. And so all the Jives, feelings are indescribable and Some thoughts on an honorable destruction and horror are known only to those who come so 


peace: justified. Are they? Do the near to "death". 
1 l The South Vietnamese have Vietnamese think so? Did the Mv thanks are to God and not really gained the precious Japanese? everyone who has been so kind and freedom to choose their govern­When this peace is celebrated generous to take the time to make nwnt. Even as I write these words, there will be many a peasant and their expressions known to me. ther<' are newspapers and radio farmer thinking of their loved ones People do care. although it may stations being closed down and lying in a pit beneath the earth not appear so outwardly. It is peopl~ being jailed for speaking with countless other bodies. There there. against the Thieu regime. If the will be many a soldier thinking of people do get free elections. they his best buddy bleeding to death on Thank you Everyone! will have that same type of choice a field. And many an American that has characterized the family thanking God that more Sincerely, American free election for the last sons wll not be taken. Through the Patricia Helgeson <SMC> 16 years. They will be able to stricken mass has there come a Survivor of North Central 575 ehoose between a totalitarian peace. <Celebrant: "The Mass is Dl'cember 20, 1972 dictatorship that does not even ended. Go in Peace.")pr<'tend to look out for the best And when our war heroes come interests of the people, and the home and when their books have Lewis Hall againt·ommunist government of the type been written. then will we have a their neighbors enjoy. As in taste of what this war was like. America. they will choose between AND THEN WE WILL BE Editor: two dancing serpents. ASHAMED THAT WE WERE 
2 l The people of America should I<:VER THANKFUL FOR THOSE Clearly it will be some time now be able to take their heads out BOMBINGS THAT LEAD TO before the total circumstances of the douds and see what the rest PEACE. Isn't there a better way? surrounding the incident at Lewis of the planet has been thinking about us. We've lost face, and are regarded as the most despicable and morally debased power in the world. We are the "Ugly Americans'' again, only this time we've got flies in our eyes, and probably won't be able to even clearly recognize the complexities of the problem of rebuilding our standing for another generation. 

:o This war must not be forgotten. President Nixon did not explain what he meant by "a lasting peace." Does this mean that we are to expect a peace that is little more than a time between ··eonflicts" that will again take the spirit and strength of our people and splatter it across the face of another far-off land? 
Please. people. let's rebuild this eountry. Let us recover now from this horrible nightmare, this ob­scene page from our history. But l£'t us not recover by closing ourselves in and attempting to ignore the state we find ourselves in. L£'t us reinstate the goodness that is this land. We are a great people. and with the belief that the 
world is ready for a great land that wields it power with justice and dignity, with <dare we be ready to show this part of our character) love and a sense of a place in the world we can avoid another 18 years of nightmare. 
We must now prepare ourselves for a better day. 
Fred Graver 
Editor: 
"Did you hear the news? Nixon just got on TV and announced peace. All the prisoners will be releas£'d. our troops will be home in 60 days and South Vietnam will remain a republic." Cathedral bells ring and again Notre Dame is a fest of fireworks, only this time for a just reason. 

• 
Peace. So long a time we have waited. So many protests we have seen on TV. So many lives taken. So manv hearts broken. And a land's ffelds. peasants, and towns are left in a state of destruction. It 
is hard for us to understand these things. We have never ex­
peri£'nced the terror of bomb 
warnings. face to face combat, or 
have stood in the night watching 
our village burn. What do we know 
of war? What do we know of 
peace? Someone says there is a 
war on and we protest. Someone 
says there is peace and we rejoice. 
Little we know of the realities of 
war: littler yet of a peace bought at 
a hard price. During the war our protests are protests stemming from sympathy for those who know the reality. and with an agreement our happiness is a relief. 
I am even brought to the opinion that the previous massive bombing raids are what pressured the Vietnamese into signing the pact. 
We must all think about what has really happened and pray and hope in the future man will not use weapons and bombs and Jives to attain peace. but understanding, rationality and most of all love. 
Leanne Jacques Regina N. 
Miscue 
t:ditor: 
I think that your Sports Editor, James Donaldson, should be £'qually redfaced <"Irish Redfaced in Orange Bowl") for having at­tributed an offensive shutout to them in "November of 1967" l HI .Jan. 73>. If you research your gridiron annals you will discover that the 67' Irish were 8-2 <neither loss. to Purdue or USC, was a shutoutl. The last Irish shutout was to Miami in 1965 (0-0 tie), again in the Orange Bowl. Let's keep those stats straight!! 
Fred Cole 
Grad Student 


Salvation 
Editor: 
_ I have written this in an attempt 
to make some type of 
acknowledgement and thanks to 
all those who I was unable to thank 
personally by word or Jetter. 
In an age of dehumanized 
mechanizatior. de-emphasized 
spiritualism and self-centered 
l'gotism. it is rare that one is 
fortunate to find that people do 
care. It isn't often one has the 
!'xperience of an ordeal which 
approaches fatalism and is 
allowed the privilege of receiving 
the sincere best wishes, prayers, 
and thanks at seeing one "alive" 
and well". 
These expressions have come to 
me from all over the country in the 
form of gifts. cards, prayers, 
phone calls. and letters. The most 
amazing thing is that the majority 
have come from people I do not 
know and will probably never 
meet. 
I feel as I did that night as I 
stood watching the plane, I had 
just been on board, burst into 
flames. In disbelief and 
amazement that I had actually 
been on it. I know it was God who 
guided me from that plane, but his 
"helper" who took my hand is as 
yet "unknown\' to me. I feel also 
as I did that night as I lay in the 
emergency room among those who 
were coughing, singed, and 
blackened by the fire... helpless 
and in disgust at my own In­
significant bruises. As I lay there 
witnessing their discomfort. I Hall are known. But some preliminary judgments seem reasonable from the known "facts." 

"J<'irst. just as a military ser­viceman, Notre Dame students, undergraduate and graduate alike, appear to have given up their rights under the constitution. Whatever procedure the university wishes to follow in enforcing its private moral fancies, the in­stitution pursues them with flagrant disregard to due course of legal right. Witness for instance the provost's threat of visa revocation for the student under discussion. Certainly this questionable approach borders on blackmail or at best is a modern Finally. some space should be university ultimately resulting inimplementation of an inquisitional :ll'ford£'d the anonymous moral the revocation of her visa. As amethod. And if Mr. Pears' in­paragon who notified "security" of last resort. she appealed to histerrogation was accurately the ethical debacle in process at eonscience as a Catholic priest toreported. he violated flagrantly Lt•wis Hall. How noble this lively which Hesburgh l'l'ported that he£'very modern legal nuance. But l'ould have been had she <possibly was an administrator first and felt the recourse for students in such a he'? l had the courage to confront bound to uphold the decision of theeases is ridiculously inadequate, the French lady. tell her that the Provost even if that meant at theas evidenced by Dr. Gordon's man's presence was repugnant, Pxpense of justice and fairness.
assinine proposal for graduate and asked him to leave. The I believe that the above accountstudents' appeal procedure. 
!'hosen method smacks of moral \'erifies the rumor so oftenEvidently.judgment by a group of !'Owardice at best and one can only repeated in Washington, D.C. thatpeers is unknown here. 

hope that the perpetrator feels eivil rights stop at Notre DameSecond, this entire problem rises adequately justified by the ex­Avenue and have no place on thefrom the university's tenatious pulsion of the young woman. Notre Dame campus. The role ofretention of the in loco parentis Catholicism needs no comment.

dogma. a practice long buried by Sincerely yours,any university of status, but Sincerely,retained here under the guise of .John H. Knight
parietals, a set of arbitrary 
(;rad Student 1\lary Martha McNamaramandates which no one follows, 

J<:nglish Department

regarding them with dispassionate disdain. Why, one wonders, does Notre Dame decide to arbitrate the Reply to Creaney morality of a graduate student? Perhaps because the alumni static Editor: \rould be too electrifying had an While the concern for the lack of 
Editor:undergraduate been singled out. Due Process afforde some Notre 

Or. more realistically, because Dame students as illustrated by He: Mike Creaney's article in the
the recent Lewis Hall incident is

were Arthur Pears to scour the recent Scholastic:undergraduate halls for girls understandable. I feel that the Dear Mike.
"living in." his police force would thrust of the protest so far has Your use of the word "hyper­spend the rest of the semester beeen misdirected. Arthur Pears rritical" in describing myprowling the corridors. is not responsible for the disposition is to be regretted. ToThe point is simply this: if the reprehensible actions that have those members of the student body university wishes to retain and been taken-the responsibility who are ignorant of the over­enforce its moral manifest destiny belongs to Burtchaell and whelming poverty of taste that ourfor the students. it should do so Hesburgh and should not be lightly rompanions on the football teamPqually. for minor and adult, for glossed over. 
have exhibited in the area ofon-and off-campus student, for In no way was Hesburgh the feminine pulchritude during themale and female. Impossible? Of sympathetic bystander as por­

past four years, the term

l'ourse. One does not, cannot, and trayed in one of your earlier "hypercritical" connotes an ex­has never been able to legislate editorials. He alone was the only cessiveness on my part which is atpersonal morality. And it is person who could have stayed best misleading and at worst\)('neath the dignity of Notre Dame Burtchaell's order of dismissal. 
untrue. One need only reflect onlo attempt to do so. When he was appealed to by the the quality of the "social en­Third. the entire episode graduate student, he refused to 

counters" of our friends

strongly reinforces ny opink>n that allow counsel to accompany her 
Musuraca. O'Malley, McGraw,

here the student exists for the sake into his office. When she alone saw Hagger. Webb, and Dewan toof Notre Dame, not the reverse. him. he refused to even hear her 
realize the veracity of my

With two other major universities side of the controversy. Rather, he statement. I would rather like tolor eomparison, I have some basis informed her that he was believe that I possess a morefor this belief. To me it is apparent displeased by the amount of discerning eye for the beautiful,('Very where: in the churlish publicity she had generated. The and with the exception of adiscourtesy of the campus cops; in letter of recommendation to which singularly unfortunate experiencethe secure indifference passed out you alluded was nothing more than in Dallas, I have remained anwith the food in the dining halls; in a threat and a bribe-if she did not island of refinement in a sea ofthe haughty condescension leflve the campus quickly and Philistinism.
evidenced-by the many ad­quietly as ordered by Burtchael, he ministration decisions made would not write her a recom­Yours, critically, without student or in disregard to mendation without which she could 
HerbBriic~

student opinion. never gain admtttance to another 

Tuesday, January 30, 1973 
InPIRG lacking IDODlentuiD; support of ND branch Dleager 
ND law students characterized as 'more cautious and conservative' 
*NOTICE* LADIES OF COLUMBUS IMPORTANT MEETING January 30·-Tuesday 7:00--Councll Chambers  
Mardi Gras "Kickoff Party" A Beer Ba1sh With Live Rock,. Friday, Feb. 2, 1973 8:30 pm -12:30 $5 per couple Indiana National Guard Armory Tickets Available at Student Union Ticket Office Dining Halls (Tues, Wed, Thurs) Free Bus Service Provided  
CLASSIFIED ADS WANTED NOTICES Gals-Earn $10-$20 in spare time. For details call Mrs. Wells, 272­"Wine-Steward, evenings, must 8375. have a general knowledge of wine. Apply in person at The Down Need riders to Kent State this Under, Inc., 910 E. Ireland Road,weekend. Call Ken 8810. South Bend, Ind. Part-time male clerk. Must be 21. Any young lady with nothing to do Apply Huff's Portage Pharmacy, this weekend, call Hush, 1463. 1349 Portage Ave. Sophomore or junior student OVERSEAS JOBS FOR from the Atlanta, Georgia area to STUDENTS -Australia, Europe, work this summer as manufac· s. America, Africa. Most turers' representative. Call Gregprofessions, summer or full t·ime, at 1521. expenses paid, sightseeing. Free information, write, TWR Co. Dept Michiana Sports Car Club F2, 2550 Telegraph Ave., meeting Spm Feb 1. First Bank & Berkeley, CA 94704. Trust US 31 N. & Cleveland Road. Phone 272·9914. Wanted: Ambitious person or couple interested in earning good Sun Freaks: Nassau is warm,part-time income. For interview sunny, clear & dry. Deepen yourcall Mr. Wells 272-8375. Florida tan. March 9 -16. $189. FOR SALE ON CAMPUS INTERVIEWS THURS. FEB. 8 For Sale: Fender iazzmaster Camp Wayne: childrens summer quitar plus 150 W. Speaker system camp N.E. Pennsylvania. 3 hrs. (215's & E.V. horn). Also 60 Watt NYC & Phila. Counselors who like amp. Contact the Creepy Cruddy children with specialties in sports,Brown House, 233·8343. water, arts, & science activities. Siqn -up room 207, Administration Allied reel-to-reel tape deck. Bldg. Write 633 Barnard Ave.,Orig. cost $150. Sell for best offer. Woodmere N.Y. 11598. Call Joe 8427. Before you buy a diamond learn 1969 VW Beetle, low mileage, all the facts, it may save you a beautiful flue, $1195 or best offer, qreat deal. Call: James 3118. call 233·4024 after 5. Spend your spring break by doing'71 Honda 600 sedan, like new something different this year.cond. 40 MPG economy. 4 sp11ed, The YOUNG place to be where all bucket seats, front wheel drive. the ACTION is PARTIES + $950. J.M. Causey, days 282·2591, GIRLS GOODTIMES reducedEves 291-2975. rates for N D-St. Marys students ACAPULCO I'm trying to sell two tickets to the $257.50 · Price includes round tripSaturday night showing of Man of air tare (chicago), all ocean front LaMancha in chicago. Call Jerry hotel accommodations. For8810. reservations call Del Cooper 272­3004. Wood-paneled bar for sale. 6·ft. long X 41 2 ft high. Call to see, Sister Marita needs volunteers for3344. this. semester. If interested call Bob or Mark at 1321 or 1322. LOST AND FOUND ------------------­FOR INFORMATION ABOUT Lost--Black top hat Sat. night. THE GAY AWARENESS retail value $50. Please return COMMUNITY, CALL 7789, W-TH­Red Man . 41 Lyons Hall 7812. F,8-10pm. Lost: glasses, round tortoiseshell "Students needed immediately to frames. lf you've found them act as representatives for a please call 5166or 8661. I'm blind! Chicago research company. Pleaty of money to be made in Lost: on South Quad -SMC class spare time. Call (312) 922·0300" ring with initials K.A.O.. lf found please call Kayo at 233·2274. Need $20 to $150? Bor.row from Morrissey Loan Fund. LaFortune Lost: Accutron watch. Burgandy basement. Monday thru Fridayand white band. Reward Dan :1:15-12:15. 3668, 442 Morr. rwo need ride to Indianapolis on Feb. 2. Will share expenses. Call Mike 1425 or Beth 4565. Need a ride to Columbus this weekend. Call Jan 4679.  

by Steven Carr Staff Reporter 
Halph Nader has been trying to initiate programs in consumer research all over the country and in m;mv states he has been suc­l'essful.· However. this state's branch. named the Indiana Public Interest Research Group ( lnPJHG >.shows little if any signs of life. 
Bill Hahner. one of the leaders of the movement to get Notre Dame's support for the program explained that last year students had presented a 'signed petition to the administration in the hope that 
"Law students at Notre Dame today tend to be more personally ('autious and conservative than p1·evious graduates." Dean Thomas Shaffer told New York law alumni last Friday at a luncheon in tlw Biltmore Hotel. 
"They arc as interested in helping people," he added, "but thev seem to want to do it on their owi1. They want to do il within the context of traditonal law prac­tice." 
Shaffer recounted the "veritable revolution" of five years ago when law student sought training in social change. There was much intertest in legal aid and public 

A &.L students 
have processes 

for 'rotten deal' 
Students in Arts & Letters l'Ourses who feel they have received a rotten deal in any area of academics are reminded that they have recourse to remedy their ills. 
A number of college depart­nwnts have their own grievance procedures for students who feel they were wronged or unduly disappointed by a teacher, department. course. or ('ducational program. However, a l'Oilege-wide procedure also exists for redress of these "problems" \\'hich is mediated by students of the Arts and Letters Student Advisory Council with faculty participation. The procedure allows for a formal investigation of a students problem with results forwarded to the dean. 
Though the Dean's and not the l'otmcil's decision will be final. the council's recommendation will be a deciding factor in the final determination of any case. For a detailed written account of the procedure. go to the College J)(•an's office. 137 O'Shaughnessy IIaII. 

WhAT'S ThE RELiGiOUS LiFE Lil{E? 
Ask tile Men Wllo Know 
Contact: Fr. Andrew Cifemi, 0. Priem. 
HIIJ Cntss Hill, 107 UNO tile: 283-6115 
lnPIRG would be accepted here. The administration did accept it anct would have proceeded to bill each student three dollars. with the option of obtaining a refund on their money if they desired. 
There was one problem however. In order for InPIRG to be established. the support of a least 
40.000 students was necessary. It \\'as obvious that Notre Dame could not get this kind of support, hut it was hoped that Indiana llniversitv and Purdue would. \lnfortunately. they were not able to. The trustees of the two state universities. suspicious of outside 
interference. rejected the program and put a stop to InPIRG broad community leadership-­public service and elective office-­and more ir.terested in quieter, low-profile. personal influence. Thev aim at the "modest professional lives of Owen Mar­shall and Marcus Welby, rather than Thurgood Marshall or Louis 

D. Brandeis." 
Shaffer concluded by saying that Notre Dame is attempting to overcome an absence of diversity in the law student body by deliberately aiming for diversity in the record number of applicants seeking admission to the Law School. 
in Indiana. Had they accepted it, a staff of trained professionals would have been hired in colleges throughout the state to work on public interest problems with the bulk of research being done by the students themselves. 
This vear. InPIRG does not appear· to be in operation anvwhere in Indiana and the pt·ospects for its activation do not seem bright. Rahner felt that there were a number of students interested in the program here on campus. but that. generally, the interest aas not great. "For now" he concluded. "it's all up in the 
air.'' 


Drop anything-­or drop everything But drop it in Jackson Hole 

.Join your Ski Club friends in another adventure high in the Tetons. 
Ski the Big J; experience bowls of snow as you've never seen before: take the Aerial Tram to heights unimagined. 
Far up in the Grand Tetons-­far out in Wyoming 
March 9-March 18 Nine nights lodging SPven days all lifts Kitchenette units available $105 l'or all this and more! 

$20 downpayment taken: Wednesday. January 31st and Friday, February 1st, from 2 till 5. Cabinet office, Second Floor LaFortune. 
For further information, contact: Doug Siddoway 234-7245 



ND wrestlers lose: Rocek wins 
by Lefty Ruschmann 
AI Hocek's 15th and 16th con­secutive wins proved to be the bright spot in an otherwise frustrating weekend homestand for Notre Dame's wrestlers, which dropped back-to-back matches to St. J<'rancis <Pa.l College (23-21) and powerful Marquette (32-9l. 
Hocek. a 190-pounder who has filled in at the heavyweight position. upped his season record to 16-1 on the strength of two more wins. one of them a bruising 11-3 decision over his Marquette op­ponent. 
But Mike Martin (126), another big Irish winner and the team's remaining co-captain along with Bruce FPrraro < 167l, became the lat('sl victims of Notre Dame's sPason-long injury hex which has forced Coach Terry Mather to start a lineup of mostly rookies. Both l\lartin and l''erraro suffered shoulder injuries yesterday and will not appear in tonight's en­\'Otmter with Wheaton College. 
"Now it's so bad that even the rookies an' getting injured, and the rookil'S were in there to replace the 
Jim Donalds on t::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:=:=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=::::::::::::: 



The Irish Eye 
:·:·:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:;:~:-:-:-:-:;:;:;:;:::;:::::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:::=:=:=:=:=:::=: The Nation Is Best ? 
It's hard to believe, but UCLA's record-setting Bruins weren't the most 
impressive team to perform in last weekend's sports extravaganza at 
Notre Dame. That distinction goes to the Irish hockey team. which played 
as fme a series of collegiate hockey as could be seen anywhere while 
sweeping a pair of games from thf W.CRA-leading Michigan State Spar­
tans. 1\-5 and 13-5. 
This is not to say that coach "Lefty" Smith's icers are on a par with .John Woodcn'salmostunbeatable basketball team. The UCLAns are in a l'lass by themselves, ~s their 61 consecutive victories and seven straight national championships prove. Even for a Notre Dame fan, it was a treat to witness a part of collegiate sports history-the establishment of the longest winning streak in college basketball, a winning streak that is not soon. if ever, likely to be surpassed. 
Although the Bruins were in control all the way Saturday and dominated the game as they have so many others in the last ten years, lheyseemed to win because of their overpowering physical capabilities, rather than through finely honed skills and finesse. UCLA showed flashes of brilliance but, by and large, the Bruins seemed to rely on the brutal hoard-crashing of Bill Walton. Larry Farmer and Keith Wilkes to pick up easy baskets inside. "Digger" Phelps' club couldn't cope with that slam­hang style. 

In contrast. Friday and Saturday night's hockey games were almost poetry to watch. The Irish controlled both contests by playing classic hockey-checking agressively, passing with precision and shooting ac­curately. The competition was top-flight-Michigan State came into the Convo with a 10-2-1 record and in first place in the WCHA-and the Irish emerged as clearly the better team. 
The sports writers in town for the basketball game left raving about the Bruins' Bill Walton. It's too b?i they didn't make a trip over to the other side of the Convo to catch Eddi" Bumbacco's act. 
Prior to last weekend, Bumbacco had five more goals than anyone in the league and the junior left winger padded that lead with two out­standing games, scoring three goals each night. Those tallies enabled Bumbacco to break two Notre Dame records-goals scored in a season and points in a season. Bumbacco now has 34 goals, three more than Phil Wittliff scored in the '68-'69 campaign, and 62 points, one more than John Noble scored last year. 
In addition. he has tied Whitliff's record for goals ina career (7:.!) and set records for hat tricks in a season and career as well as for points and goals for a sea!e)l and carl:'er by a left wing. If Bumbacco isn't a sure-fire All-American. lien UCLA hasn't got a good basketball team. 
"l':ddie reallfamazes me," Smith commented. "We knew he could shoot and scoW. but this year he is making a move with the puck, torecheckin(§ and back checking." 
Bumbacc~ wasn't the only Irish record-setter last weekend. John l'\oble. N me's all-time leading point scorer, surpassed the 200­point mil his career, a plateau seldom reached by collegians. 
Balance have been a big factor in UCLA's basketball success and. Irish have been getting goals from all three of their tines. The· mbacco-David Howe trio accounted for seven goals o-ver the the Regan-DeLorenzi-lsraelson line also had seven goals. led 's four, and the Conroy-Willlams-Dunphy combine had three Schaffer, who toot over at center Saturday night after No for spearing, scored twice, and defensemen Steve Cu Novitski had one apiece, the latter scoring while the Irish nded. 
Novitsk with Mike Tardani, is fast becoming a favorite with Notre Da fans, who turned out in record numbers to see the Irish sweep · Novitski and Tardani have been doing an outstandi of penalty killing in recent weeks. Their scrambling, daring style-c;ine of their favorite techniques is to throw their bodies in front of blasts from the point-has disconcerted opponents' power plays. Tardani so frustrated the Spartans Friday night that an MSU player "look a run" a.thim and drew a penalty in an effort to cool off the spunky junior. 
Despite yielding 10 goals to the Spartans, both goalie Mark Kronholm and the Irish defensemen played a fine series. 
"It might not look like a defensive series," Smith '>aid, "but Michigan Slate had some good opportunities for goals in both games. I thought !\lark came up with some sensational saves, sometimes two and three in a row. I thought he had a real fine series." 
The two wins. worth four points in the standings, left the Irish in fourth place in the WCHA with an 11-7 record and 26 points. 
The Irish have now won eight of their last nine games and, although they won't win 61 games in a row, they've got some UCLA-like ideas about national championships. The way Notre Dame played last weekend. such ideas aren't too far-fetched. 
injured veterans." explained Coach Mather, who was nevertheless not discouraged with his team's performace. "Con­sidering the situation. I think our men did an outstanding job. They fought and scratched but they were just outgunned and outmanned­J'm proud of them." 
St. Francis. the first team to test the Irish on Friday night. rolled to an early 11-0 :lead by sweeping the first three bouts. Mark Peters < 118l led Note Dame's Marc Honquillo after one period. 6-4, and upped his advantage to 12-4 with a second-period flurry consisting of ane escape. a takedown and near­fall. Peters. firmly in command in the final stanza. coasted to an Pventual 17-5 triumph. Mike Saguraton. the Saints' 126-pounder, shook off a stubborn challenge by !\like Martin. using a near-fall in the second period to open up a 5-1 IPad which he hiked to 6-1 in the final minutes. 
Gary Pirozzola of St. Francis made 'it three straight in the 134­pound event by overpowering Sieve Rrischetto. 20-2, after opening up a quick 7-0 advantage 

Sophs pace Irish SWim triumph 
by Pete McHugh 
With sophomores Jim Kane and Bob Thompson setting meet records. the Irish swin team sank 
Marshall  University, 73-40,  
Saturday  at  Rockne  Memorial  
Pool.  
Kane.  who  already  holds  two  

varsity records. added to his laurels by winning the 100-yard freestyle in meet-record time <-t!l.3l. Thompson remained un­defeated this season with another _meet record <2:10) in the 200-yard 
backstroke. 

In addition to these per­formances, Notre Dame's divers l'Ontinued to embarrass their opponents by sweeping both the one-meter am.! three-meter events. Sophomore Dan Makielski cap­tured the one meter event and freshman Mark Foster placed second. In the high board com­petition Foster took first and 1\lakielski trailed. 
The Irish ~wimmers. in boosting their record to 4-2, broke off Ia a :!8-14 lead and never trailed. The 400-yard medley relay team <Thompson, Jim Fischer, .Jim Meagher. Kanel opened the action by winning the relay with a :l: -19.3 clocking. 
In the 1000-yard freestyle senior .John Sherk took his specialty with freshman Andy Wallach placing second. Joe O'Connor and the 
ND trackmen drop tri-meet 
Notching only two first place finishes and a meager team score of 1\l points. the Notre Dame track squad was trounced Saturday in Madison. The hosting Wisconsin Badgers ran up a school record of 127 points against the Irish and the Iowa Hawkeyes. who tallied just 27 points. 
Only Eric Penick, with a 6.4 l'ffort in the 60-yard dash, and Tom 
McMannon. who won the 70-yard high hurdles were victorious for the Irish. McMannon also placed third in the 60-yard low hurdles. 
Bob Herman .took third in the shot put with a toss of 48' 71~" and !\like {;ahagan captured third in the 1000-yard dash to round out Irish scoring in the first three spots. 
The Badgers completely dominated the meet. winning 13 of the 16 events. including an im­pressive 1-2-3-4 finish in the two mile run. 
l'Ver-present Kane finished 1-2 in the :!00-yard freestyle. while Gene Kl'authaus and Rich Fitzsimmons \\'('re second and third in the 50­
yard freestyle. · 
.Junior Ed Graham posted a personal season high <2:08.4) in capturing the 200-yard individual medley. In the 200-yard butterfly Ed Strack finished second with Sherk capturing third. 
Notre Dame clinched the meet with the 5--yard freestyle victories 
· of Meagher and Wallach. who placed first and second respec­tively. 
. A freshman. Brian McCorry, dosed the scoring for the Irish by earning a third place finish in the 200-vard breaststroke. The 400­yard freestyle relay team <O'Connor, Mike Wolz, John 
Balthrop. Mark Wilcoxl lost their Pvent--but by only four thousand­ths of a second. 
For the second consecutive week. coach Dennis Stark was able to use his entire squad with fifteen different swimmers scoring points. 
Stark said his team's being "psychologically ready" enabled 
Jayvee icers 


down MSU 
by John Fineran 
The Junior Varsity hockey_ team. with Jim Augustine's hat Irick and Don Smith's goaltending as highlights, revenged their earlier 6-1 loss to Michigan State's .IVs with a 7-1 victory in the Athletic and Convocation Center Friday afternoon. The victory upped the Irish record to 7-3. 
Augustine scored just fourteen seconds into the game and Rick Locke added another marker to give Notre Dame a 2-0 lead at the first period intermission. After a scoreless second period. Mark Olive lit the lamp at :55 into the third. Augustine and Bill Whiteside lll<lde the score 5-o before Mike Bownick of State ruined Smith's hid for a shutout with a goal at 
15:54. Augustine finished hit hat trick at 16:00 with Rick Martinello supplying the finishing touch with a goal at 17:12. 
Smith played brilliantly all af­ternoon. making 24 saves and repeatedly thwarting Spartan rushes. The victory lowered his goals-against average to a respectable 2.61. 
The JVs meetlndianaUniversity next Friday and Park Ridge Saturday in the A.C.C. Both games faceoff at 3:00p.m. 
nutlastPd Marquette's Tom Newman in a 16-11 free-for-all. \rhich \\'as won on a strong second­pl•riod t-ffort by Boyer. 
The Warriors. however. put the lll<'t'l away by taking the next five t-vents, three of them by pins. 
AIHocl•k saved some measure of 
pride in the heavyweight class. dominating Ben Guido by an 11-:1 socrc. Hocek spotted Guido a :!-0 It-ad hut an escape and two penalty points put him ahead 3-2. 
them to rout a very respectable Marshall squad. 
Stark's Irish go on the road this \\'eekend facing Norhhern Illinois Friday and Bradley Saturday. Northern Illinois has beaten Notre Dame the past two years and that should be enough to make the Irish "psychologically ready" to avenge those defeats. 

Standings 
If L T lfo• Lost GF GA Denver...... . .. 13 50 34 14 90 57 Wiseonsin . . ....13 4 I 33 11 91 fi3 Mich. State .10 4 I 31 11 71 82 Notre Dame ... II 7 0 26 18 t1 78 
N. Dakota .. .. .10 II 23 25 !13 93 Minnesota . . . 6 t 3 23 29 64 68 Mich. Tech. . .. .. 8 7 o22 22 7t rr 
Minn.·Duluth .. . . 8 10 0 '' U 78 80 Colo. College ....... 3 14 0 10 34 69 105 Michigan . 3 II 0 8 38 71 118 
WEEKEND RESULTS Notre Dame 8-13. Michigan State ~5 Wisconsin 8-4, North Dakota 3-3 
Minnesota 4-3, Michigan Tech H (first game ot) Colorado College H. Michigan 7-4 (llrst game ot) Denver '-3. Minn.·DUiulh 1·2 GAME THURSDAY Colorado College at Denver (Z) GAMES FRIDAY North Dakota at Notre Dame (4 
points), 7:30p.m .. ACC Wisconsin at Michigan Tech. (4) Minnesota at Minn.-Duluth (2) Michigan at Michigan State (2) 
GAMES SATURDAY North Dakota at Notre Dame (4), 
7:31p.m., ACC W1sconsin at Michigan Tech (4) Minnesota at Minn.-Duluth (2) Denver at Colorado College (2) Michigan State at Michigan (N) 
Individual 

statis tics 
Playrn. Gms G A Pts P-M 
Bumbacco, w .... 24 34 28 62 15-30 Williams,w ....21 20 22 42 21-42 Noble,c .........20 12 28 40 1~23 Regan.c ......... 24 11 19 30 18-44 DeLorenzi, w . . . 2.'1 10 IS 25 12-27 Conroy.c .. .. .. . 24 & 10 lfi 8-19 Curry,d...... . .23 4 II 15 23·49 Green,d .........24 2 12 14 14-29 Nyrop.d .........24 2 12 14 12-24 lsraelson,w ...... 19 t 3 12 4-8 
D. Howe.w ...... 12 4 6 10 3-8 Schafer,d-c ...... 24 5 4 9 11·30 Steiflborn,d ......21 I 8 9 4-8 La~n.d ........ 24 I 5 6 2· 4 Dunphy.w ....23 I 4 5 5-10 Novitzki,w .....22 2 0 2 Cl-0 Maison.w.. . 4 I I 2 o-0 Tanlan1 w.... .22 0 I I ~ 0 Keating.w ......12 0 I I ~18 Cunha c .. .. 4 0 I I 1-2 Bond, d......... 7 0 0 0 ~ 0 Byers, w .. .. .. .. . 2 0 0 0 ~ 0 
ND Totals ........ M 125 191 318 188-m Opp. Totals ...... 24 123 J74 297 112·371 'Power Play Goals -ND 36 of 114 
(31.8 per cent); Opp 25 of IIH (21.2 per cent) 
Shorthanded Goals-ND 6. Opp. 3 Gultenders GIM GA Avg. Savrs Kronholm . . . . . . IU 71' 4.40 535 
Cathcart .. . .. .. .. . 8.5 44' 8. 71 206 
Notre Dame .. .. . 24 121 • 5.1H 743 Opponents . . .... 24 123' 5.13 751 'Doe~ not inclucte open net goils. 

in the opening period. Dave Boyer <142l of the Irish retaliated by pinning Dan Knepp of 
7:04 of the third stanza after ac­cumulating an 8-0 lead in points. Pat O'Connor followed with ;mother Irish victory in the 150 an 1\-:l victorv over the visitors Kevin Cordell. hringing Note Dame to within two at Il-9. 
.Jim Harvey outpointed ND's Hich {;illoon in the 158-pound Pvent. 11-8. the winning margin hPing provided by a pair of takedowns early in the third period. Hich Petersen <167) gave St. Francis a 17-9 advantage with his decision victory over Bruce FPrraro. Petersen went ahead at :!-0. fashioned a 5-2 lead with a takedown and escape. and went on to win a !l-6 decision. 
.John Dowd of the Irish pinned his 177-pound opponent. Jerry Ar­m iller a I 7:23 of the final period to lead the Irish back to within 17-15. But Dowd's comeback win brought immPdiate retaliation from the 
'H. 
Heavywieght AI Rocek wears down Marquette's Ben Guido for an 11-3 decision victory, his 16th in a row. 

Saints' John White. who pinned l'de Chimento at 2:27, closing out Notre Dame comeback hopes. Heavyweight AI Rocek's forfeit win closed out the night's scoring. 
Marquette. which faced the Irish Saturday afternoon. jumped out to an Parly 11-0 lead by registering consecutive wins by decision. !\like Reining <118l stopped Notre Damp's Marc Ronquillo 16-2 scoring the last twelve points of the match. Tom Rudolph, Marquette's 12ti pounder. established a large lead over Mike Martin--10-2 at the t-nd of one period--and went on to post a 14-2 win. 
Not(' Dame came back to within two 1\-6 taking the next two mat­ches bv decision. Steve Brischetto, the Irish 1:14-pounder. broke a 6-all tie against Paul Clemente with a n•versal and takedown in the final minutes winning by an eventualll­7 score. Dave Boyer (142) 
• 






