--~---------------------------------..·~ 
On The Inside 
Senior, junior class olficer election results ... page 3 
Soph Literary Festival poets talk page 4 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VII No. 109 Friday, April 6, 1973 
First talk in a series 
Hart discusses civil rights movement 

by TPrry KPPnPy 
Staff HP])OI'lt'l" 

Senator Philip A. Hart examined the legislative historv of the civil rights movement last night in the first ;1f the Second Annual Civil Rights Lectures sponsored by the Notre Dame Law School. 
Tlw Michigan Democrat, who was a floor leader in Congressional pfforts to pass the 1964 Civil Rights Act and the 1965 Voting Rights Act, pointed out the ad­\"ances made by civil rights legislation as well as the challenges posed by those advances. 
'Signilicant progress' 

"We have made significant progress, but if the pace of progress is a guide, we will have to dedicate our­sPlves to civil rights in years to come," Hart observed. 
Hart traced the beginnings of the civil rights problem as far back as the founding of the Constitution. Such pre-Civil War legislative measures as the Missouri Compromise and the Kansas-Nebraska Act were motivated by the question of civil rights. 
Hart described the Reconstruction as an "era of rPconcilia tion" in which slaves were freed but were not \"PI citizens with defined rights. The attempts to define those rights during the Reconstruction were stymied by numerous Supreme Court decisions restricting civil rights for blacks. 
Depression forces cycle 
ThP St>nator attributed much of the modern social 

and political situation of blacks to the Depression. 
"Poverty and discrimination forced blacks into ghPttos. forcing a cycle of inadequate housing, education and health. The Depression also started a cohesivP black vote in American cities." 
Post-war Congressional efforts for effective civil rights laws were hampered by Southern opposition 1mostly in the Senate l and by Congressional rules requirfng a two-thirds majority to end a filibuster. Senator Hart emphasized that reform of the closure rulps gradually prevented Southern filibusters and pavPd the way for the two sweeping civil rights laws of the '60's--the 1964 Civil Rights Act and the 1965 Voting Hights Act. 
Civil Rights Act: height 
Hart. in l'alling the 1964 Civil Rights Act "the most 
comprehPnsive civil rights legislation since Recon­
struction." commented that "together with the Voting 
Hights Aet the following year. the Civil Rights Act 
marked the high water mark to those of us who wanted 
sueh legislation passed." 
Hart pointed out that the 1964 act could be passed 
nYPr Southern filibuster attempts because sit-ins and 
rallies led by Dr. Martin Luther King had brought civil 
rights to 1lhe forefront of the American public. In ad­
dition. liar'! said. "The tragedy of Birmingham and the 
assasina:ion of Medgar Evers pointed up the need for a 
massiYe response this time." 
Eliminates segregation 
\\!arlin hailed the accomplishments of both laws. He pointPd nut that 11·hill' the Voting Rights Act increased black Yoter registration in the worst states by 40 pl'rl'('nl. the Civil Rights Act had peacefully eliminated segregation in public accomodations. 
The federal Fair Housing law. passed in 1968, l'liminated discrimination in the buying or selling of lmnws and aprtments. Hart stated that one reason for its passage 11·as the urban riots of the previous sum­Jnt•rs. 
Results of laws 
··JLJl"ial dt>monstrations in New York and Chicago 
prodlll'l'd violPnce p<•rcPived differently than the 
1 wll'rH·e of Sl'lma. Alabama." 
Ill rl'lrosppel SPnator llart saw several results of 
o·JI"il rights laws. Tlwse laws provided a constitutional 
basis tor outlawing sPgrpgahon <'nded the use of the 
tilihusll'r as a 1wrmarwnt roadblock in the Senate. and 
prm·l'd that laws l'ould influence personal behavior. 
'Cannot change minds' 
··Tiwst• laws gin• liP to lhl' old notion that I once suhscrilwd to. that ~·ou cannot change !Jeople's minds to1 ;1 law." liar! said. ":'\pw laws can ereate new ~ituafllllls Ill which J>l'rl'Pplions of reality change and ll('h;JI"ior drangl's. ·· 

The Civil Rights Lectures series is sponsored by the J.aw Sl·hool in honor of University President Father Theodore Hesburgh whose efforts in civil rights in­cluded the chairmanship of the Civil Rights Com­mission. 
Senator Hart will continue his lecture program Friday afternoon at 3 3:30 and Friday evening at 8:00 
p.m. in the auditorium of the Center for Continuing t<:ducation. 
Hart: "Poverty and discrimination forced blacks into ghettos. forcing a cycle of inadequate housing, education and health." (Staff photo by Jim Hunt) 



Kersten, Etienne nix 
'compromise constitution' 

by Bruce Petrovick Staff Reporter 

SBP Robert <King) Kersten and SBVP Dennis <H-manl Etienne are disappointed with the new com­promise constitution for student government passed on Thursday. They feel that it was a "com­promise compromise constitution" with both compromises going to the other side. 
Both differed with Con Riordan, vice-president of Morrissey Hall who feels a chairman appointed by the Hall Presidents. who represent the people in the ha lis. would better represent the entire student body. KPrsten pointed out that Jim Clarke who was supposedly backed by the HPC got only 30 per cent of the vote in the SBP election while their last year's choice finished sixth in balloting. He believes that this will cause conflicts between 


Tomorrow at lunch 
• • • ~ 1 j 
) 
the Student Association Ad­ministrative Director and the Student Association Chairman appointed by the members of the Forum. 
They also think it is unwise for the Hall Presidents to control the student government budget because "the Hall Presidents will still be concerned with hall life matters..."Etienne noted that off­campus students are left helpless because the hall presidents have a two thirds majority in the council and could vote as a block. Both Etienne and Kersten plan to send a eheck to the Student Union to cover the activities fee if the hall presidents are allowed to control the budget. 
When Etienne was asked if he would run for Student Association Administrative Director, he flipped a coin which came up tails and added "it figures, the ass end 
Elienn<'
of the deal." 
, 1 
1 
A new magazine for the Notre 
Distributed free at: 
Memorial Library North Dining Hall South Dining Hall St. Mary's Dining Hall 
Dame-St. Mary's community. 
La Fortune Student Center The Morris Inn The Faculty Club Pandora's Books Moreau 
' 

~---------------------------------­
r 2 the observer Friday, April 6, 19'73 
~ 
warld
~ 
~ 
f 
briefs

I , 
~ 
(c) 197.1 New York Times 

Washington--The Senate voted overwhelmingly Thursday to require President Nixon to get specific Congressional approval before giving foreign aid to North Vietnam. And the 88 to 3 vote was also a warning that the Spnate would be unlikely to approve such aid, which the President favors. As one of the limitation's three opponents put it, "this is telegraphing the punch that there ain't gonna be no aid." 
\\'uundc•d Knl'l'. s.n.--Indian and government negotiators signed a formal agreement to end the occupation of Wounded Knee. Under the tPrms of the agreement, militant Indians who seized the hamlet two months ago will surrender their arms this weekend. In return, a 11rPsidcntial commission will study treaty rights of the Oglala Sioux and .he government will investigate the operations of the Pine Ridge Heservation. 
\\'ashington--L. Patrick Gray III asked President Nixon to withdraw his disputed nomination as director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and White House officials said the President would grant the .request. It was not immediately known whom Nixon would nominate in his place, hut there are reportedly only two candidates--Henry E. Peterson, a eareer justice department lawyer, and federal Judge William Matthew Byrne Jr. 
an campu• taday 
tri l·OO p.m 5:00 p.rn adoration of the blessed sacrament. s.1crcd heart church 
J JO P-"' workshop, Plllllopoelics, jerome rolhenberg, lib. 
au d. J JO P-"' lecture, concepluill problems and conceptual , "'''"'"· room 121 hayes-healy 7 JO P.<n international festival, washington hall 
7 · 30 p.m non-talent show, badin hall lounge 7:.10 p.m lenten communion service (byzantine melkite r i I<' I, holy cross chapel H:OO "·"' lecture, sc11. philip 11art. cce R 00 p.m. lecture, .1r11wr miller, lib. aud. 
R:OO "·"' basketball, harlem qlobetrotters, ace H:JO P-"' opera, lhc maqic llute, otaughlin aud., smc 
9:15 1:00 .1.111. concert, smc coffeehouse 
1. JO 1'-'11 taw school regional competiton, cce R:OO p.rn concert, qrecnlcilf. holy cross hall aud. 
H. JO p.<n opera, Ihe lll<lqic flute, o'laughlin aud. 
·~llll. 

~~-:or/'~'~'ur~emorial service. milrtin luther king, sacred 
H 00 "''d 10:00 p.m. -movie, 7ilZie dans le metro, eng. aud. 
Hockey gante, dance ntarathon are slated 
changed to An Tostal Weekend-­by William Murphy -April 27-~Starr Reporter 
The reason for this, explained Roe, was so more people couldA celebrity hockey game and a participate. MDA is trying todance marathon are scheduled at attract people from South Bend toNotre Dame sponsored by Student the contest.
Government and the South Bend 
(continued on page 3)
chapter of the Muscular Dystrophy 
Association as part of the annual Muscular Dystrophy Fund Raising Campaign. 
According to Phil Byrnes, coordinator of the hockey game, it will be "hockey as it was never meant to be played." One team will be made up of the staff of Alumni Hall and will be coachedjby Irish basketball star, John Shumate. 
Coach Shumate's team will play with brooms instead of sticks and boast Alumni rector, Moose Mulcahy in net using a mop. Opposing them will be a team consisting of the combined staffs of Badin and Walsh and the Notre Dame cheerleaders. 
Using regular equipment this squad will be coached by Irish hockey star, Eddie Bumbacco, and despite Coach Shumate's statement that his team "will run Bumbacco's squad off the ice", the Badin-Walsh contingent seems sun•-fire favorites. 
The game is scheduled for Sunday, April 29. Face-<>ff is at 
4:30 p.m. and admission is fifty cents. Scheduled officialsjfor this battle of the titans are University Dean of Students Fr. James Riehle and Security Director Arti:tur Pears. Coordinator Byrnes promises a good time for all who attend. 
Student Government has also planned a Dance Marathon to raise money for the MDA. Minister of 
Propaganda l Jim Roe announced that the Marathon date has been 
Starts Friday 



The other hallisn't 
Half of Louisiana's land area is 
covered with forest. 

The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S8 per semester ($14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
Announcing 
SMC Coffeehouse 
April 6  9:15-2:00  
featuring  
PETE SNAKE  JOHN YAKACKI  
BOB GUERRA  BARBE SHOP  -QUARTET  
BUCK &  JOHN  

SPECIAL FOOD TREAT 

Send us any Dannon disk plus 25C,we'll send you acomplete set of13. 
Freak out your dorm-mates with your collection of Dannon tops. Arrange them on your walls, your desk, your Levi jacket, your girlfriend (or boyfriend-we're not out to offend Women's Lib). More than a fad, it's an aesthetic experience that gives lasting significance to a transitory gastronomical sensation. So pry one top from a Dannon cover, and post it to us with a mere 25t. We'll send you a set of all our 13 colorful flavors. 
Our motive is ulterior, but our cause is just. Remember Dannon is the natural yogurt-no artificial anything. Mail to Dannon Milk Products, 22-1138thAvenue, Long Island City, N.Y.lllOl. 
------~---------------------------111111 
Friday, April 6, 1973 
the observer 
3 

Stevens, Strachota elected VP's 
Samaniego, Erickson take top class posts 


by !\Jichael Welby Starr Heporter 
Yrstrrday's balloting for junior and sPnior class offiecers resulted in tlw Plrctions fo Greg Erickson ­.Junior Class President. and Gerry Sa1~1aniego Senior Class President for 1974. 
Tim Strachota and Bill Reinke, running on the same ticket with Ericksen. were elected Vice l'rPsident and Secretary, resprctively, for the Junior class, and Bob Spann won the TrPasurer's post. 
Samaniego and the other nwmbers of his ticket -Chris Strvrns for Vice President, Marie Devitt for Secretary and Steve llornig for Treasurer -won by a \\'ide margin. 
Following the election Ericksen made the following statement: "I would like to thank everyone for the support we got. Spann is a great guy and we're glad to have him with us. We intend to keep our promises and we're really happy to have won. I'd also like to take this opportunity to thank the other tickets for an excellent campaign





}• Ulllpin g 
and somr very stiff competition."


Regatta,frog 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUII 
Final tallies


added to An Tostal 
Senior class


celebrations: Roe 
President Vice-President 
Stll11tllliC~O 5ti'Vf'o\S 
W,lflol(('

by Pattie Cooney Memorial Library, late in April. LIWollk 
H,1r11isch Stvpula
Starr Reporter Official Hules 
HtlrnpfOtl Giroltlllli

I. Boats are to be powered by one 
C~)CCillliOiio 
"'''b

A H.ubber Band Boat Regatta or more rubber bands. No other 1.1•11<.5 C<lr<'v 
and a Frog Jumping Contest are ml'ans of propulsion may be Sn1ilh f -1rico
being sponsored by the Ministry of £'mployed. Propaganda of Student Govern­2. The boat must be constructed by 
Secretary Treasurer

mrnt ''for the fun of it and in the the individual entering it in the 
De•vill ~ ll'fll iq

spirit of frivolity," according to contest. 
Rt'') •lnlds 

.Jim Hoe, public relations director :l. Boats must not measure more C11'i<.:,l \1\/,llsh for Student Government. than nine inches in width mor more '' orbv 7o•lll<'r 
H Md•l S•plt t

The Frog Jumping Cham­than two feet in length. 
P.!PI'Ill

pionship will take place behind the The winner of the Notre Dame Bookstore on Aprill5, at 1:30 p.m. regatta will be entered in the First No registration will be required. Annual International Rubber Band 
Junior class 

Owners must be with their frogs at Boat Regatta at California State all times during the contest. "We University \San Diego). The 
President Vice-President

hope that the pre-med students will l'ntrance fee and postage will be I rick.SP•l-s•r"choltl not steal frogs out of the Bio lab for paid by Student (;l•vernm£'nt. All Nt'liViiiP nurrl,, the contest," commented Roe. proceeds will go to liNICI<:V. 
Htlllk.t• R,·...,ini (-,,,,,j,lrrln 
Rt•lli·lSOtl

Rules for the Contest are as Unless the winner makes a 
CJ.1; l'rt1k.clW

follows: request for the return of their boat, P. o: 
1. The frog has 18 seconds to jump it will be given to the Marine Corps from the pad or it is disqualified "Toys for Tots" program. The 5Pcretary Trcasurer 
1-.:'t·i.lk.l'

and 18 seconds for each additional program gives toys to needy P•trqll,lnl 
1\/\ilt'tlO...k.i ..... Jld•ltl

jump. children at Christmas time. 
k··pplt'r \\'• ·IH'r 

2. Anything can be done to the frog "Wl' are hoping to garner a large fl,J.l'l\ f 'it'•lt'r to motivate it without touching it. number of entrees to insure the ~'•Tdtl \'' if(J,l 
rpr ,.,

:l. Distance will be measured from highest quality of Rubber Band l ~. llrll.IIE' pad to where the frog lands after Boats and Jumping Frogs;· said 
Ho£'.

the third jump. Frogs must weigh 11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 less than 50 pounds and be at least 
~In inch long. Hockey, marathon at An Tostal 
The winner of the Notre Dame 
(continued from page 2) .Jim Ho£' at :l508.
Frog Jumping Contest will be mail£'d to Antelope Valley College . Th£'r£' is a ten dollar entry fee Entry forms may be obtained at 
in Lancaster. California, for the and prices are: $300 for first prize Student Government offices on the lnt£'r-Collegiate Frog Jumping and nwrchandise to be announced 
sel·ond floor of LaFortune Student Championship. The championship for sPcond and third prizes. <'mter. Applications will be ac­\\'ill be h£'1d on May II. Student "Dancing." said Roe. "is defined l'epted until :l p.m. Friday, April
(iov£'rnment will pay the entry fee as any rhythmic movement." ~(i(i7. 
Spann said he "was surprised to Burda said there were "no hard 
lw the only one elected from my fl'llings."tick£'!." He later attributed his 
Samaniego said that ''thingsvictorv to "all my fellow Dillon S£'em£'d pretty close throughout."
people." · and was happy to win. "A lot of 
In the individual races Ericksen thought went into this thing. We 
was the one to win by an easy nl('t several times over the break. 
margin. The other races were We.re not promising super things­
1·erv close. Jeff Burda, who lost to 
just a good effort." Strachota by eight votes admitted 
Stl'vens who won the vice 
tw was "disappointed in the way presidential race said. "I feel very
they nwssed up the ballots. That fortuna!£'. It's good to be vice might have made some difference president and I feel we can help the 
in the voting but that's hard to class. Really. it just feels good to say." Despite the slim margin, win." 
FIRST ANNIVERSARY SPECIAL 
Introducing: THE DOUBLE DECKER SANDWICH 
(2 hamburger patties, cheese, lettuce, and our own dressing) and a glass of OLD MILWAUKEE 
p  erp•d1e  only  
-~  95 cents with this ad  
103 Dlxleway South  Complete Carry Out Service  
272-5540  This offer limited  to  one  per person,  
Open 'tiiiMidnlght  not  honored  on Friday.  .Exp1res 5-1-73  

MAIN CHURCH 
SUNDAY MASSES 
5:15p.m. Sat. 
Fr. Robert Griffin, C.S.C.
9:30 a.m. Sun. 
Fr. Gene Montoya, C.S.C.
10:45 a.m. Sun. 
Fr. Carl Dehne, S.J.
12:15 p.m. Sun. 
Fr. William Toohey, C.S.C. 
"Evens~ng" vespers at 4:30 p.m. Sunday. Cnnfess1ons are heard before each weekday mass and from 7:00 to 7:30p.m. Monday through
Saturday. 
"Dancing in the Streets" 

BLOCK PARTY 
40 Kegs of Beer 
Hot Dogs live Music Saturday April 7 1:00 pm-1 am 800 Block of Notre Dame Ave. Behind the N.D. Apartments 
ALL STUDENTS & FACULTY INVITED 
and postage. HoP also stressed that this is a 

L------------------------------------------------------~ 
(iramulkin. of Indiana State tund raising event and hoped that l'ni\'Prsitv. last vear's winner of llws£' organizations who par­tlw lnt£'r-Collegiate Frog Jumping ticipatP would do their best to get <'onkst. jumped 10'51~". as man\' additional funds as 
Photographers
Tlw Hubber Band Boat Regatta possible.· If anyone wishes to help \l·illlw hdd at the reflecting pool at with the organization and running of the 1\larathon please contact 
wishing to work next year for the 


OBSERVER & DOME 
Pick up an Application & Questionaire in the OBSERVER OFFICE 
Contact Joe Raymond 10:00 am -5:00pm 
~Big Boy Family Restaurant 
Now •1n your area 
52860 U.S. 31 North (in front of Ramada'lnn) 272-9720 
1 
l
1 
~ 

the observer Friday, April 6, 19.73
4 



Poets highlight symposium 
by Hill Sabin Starr Rf'porter 

Kt·nneth Rexroth, John Ash­llt'rry and .Jerome Rothenberg, lhree American poets, critics and lranslators, discussed literary lraditions, translations of foreign and ancient poetry and modern poetry in a Poetry Symposium at lhe Library Auditorium yesterday a ftt•rnoon. 
The symposium, sponsored by lhe Sophomore Literary Festival, was an informal discussion of lopics suggested by moderator and lhc audience. Allhough •it started 
Griffin chosen Senior Fellow 
h~· Miehat'l Wf'lby Starr Hl'porter 

Fath('r Hobert F. Griffin C.S.C. ht'<.'amt• the first person from Notre Damt• to be selected as St•nior I<'PIIow last night. Griffin was t•hosen from a field of five t•andidatcs and won by a large margin. 
(;riffin. best known to students as "(;rif" is rector of Keenan hall and lh(' author of the book Letters Tn .\ Lmlt'ly God. a collection of 
[ 
f short stories and essays, most of which hav(' appeared in apst issues of Ih(' Observer. "Grif" and his dog. Darby O'Gill are two of the highlights of the North Quad. 
In lh(' past two years, Daniel 
r 
r r Thieu promises r 
~ 
to never again 
ask for U.S. aid 
((') l!li:l Nl'w York Times 

Washington. April a--President Nguyen Van Thieu of South Vietnam pl('dged today--in his first Anwrican public appearance--that lw would "never. never" ask the llnited States to send troops back to Vietnam. 
In a speech and then a news eonference at the national press dub. Thieu also said that his gov<•rnment could survive after thP eease-fire period without Anwrican air support, even if the North Vietnamese began a fresh invasion. 
Ba('ked by promises of continued Anwrican Pconomic and military aid from two days of talks with prPsidl'nl Nixon on the West coast, Thi<•u sPcnwd relaxed and ingood humor as he faced his first :\nwrican audience--made up of nt•wsnwn. diplomats. government offieials. public relations men and husi1wssnwn who are members of llll' club. 
The South Vietnamese leader mPI Iough questions with aplomb, ;md went out of his way to say what 111ost ,\nwricans were probably t•ag<·r to hear. 
llllllllllllll......ii&IMI&-IHIIIIIIIIIHIII' 
Issue Stall 
Noqhl Edotor: Joe Abell Assostanl Night Editors: Bill 
1\ronk. M<1ro,1 G,lllilqher L.1youl: Moke Kulczycki 0.1y Edotor: Bill Sohn Copy Edotor: Moke B,1um Poclurc Screener: Jrrome Phillips Typosls: D.we Rusl, Diane 
C · •'YilP.rctr. M,1rv Ron1er. Ton1 .A,\,dqltol. Rorh M<Loy Noqhl Controller: Ro·ll ll.orri•Hif'r 
Collegiate Notes 
llP<If·r .... t.tncl ,111 ~ubjects, plclYS , .net novel-; fclSter! T · (Ill t~llcl~ of top•cs ,lVclllclble : 11111n .18 110urc, of r11c1il inQ (, illjll••fl' \',1 1 11 hd)ltQq(clphy clnd 
tootnotros t P\'.''''•' Pnccc; ,,rr.. r.U/\R/\NTEED ' f ~; D S 1 90 lor our 1.11esl !• ·.rr•pl•vr• M.rd Orcter (,llclloquP 
'·· p, •,1.-qf• Pr~icf OrcJC'r Form~ 
COLLEGIATE RESEARCH I N. 13th St. tlldg. Rm 706 Phola. Pa. 19107 HOT-LINE (21S) S63 3158 
Bt•rrigan and William Kunsler havl' won the Senior Fellow 
Award.  The award itself is  an  
informal  tradition  that has been  
J,:oing  on  since the Second World  

War. In the past. the winner has heen given $500 to cover travelling t•xpenses and as a prize. The winner usually gives several talks on campus, both formal and informal. 
Since Griffin will incur no traH•tling ('Xpenses, there will be a decision a<; to what to do with the $500. Hr will probably not recieve it. Griffin will however give two lalks at Stepan Center May 2nd and :lrd. 
IIParing of his select'on, Griffin said. "I am very g,·· .~ful. I couldn'I be more deligh .a i: 1\Totre llanw had confirmed :m licr•Jrary d('gree. for this is a gift frum the studmts. Darby O'Gill is also pleased. He is ordering a cap and gown in lht> morning." 

"Zazie dans le Metro''(Malle) 
Mon April 9 "Stolen Kisses" (Truffaut) 
Tues April 10 "La Femme lnfidele" (Chabrol) 
Wed April 11 "The Umbrellas of Cherbourg" (Demy) 
Thurs April 12 "Breathless" (Godard) 
Each of the films will be shown in the Engineering Auditorium at 8 & 10 pm $1.00, patrons free
l 


CAC '73 presents .~ 5 Contemporary French Classics 
"dominance of Southern gen­llrmen and ex-Trotskyites." 
Translating 

Th(' three scholars are well­known for their translations of foreign poetry into English. Hothenberg's Tl'chnicians of the Sat·n·d is a major study of "primitive poetry" that includes a range of "poetries from America Asia and Oceania," according t~ lhe book-cover blurb. Thus another major part of the discussion was devoted to the art of translating. The three pointed out deficiencies of literal translations as opposed to "getting inside th~ poet." Ashberry suggested that using the English word closest in meaning, in a grammatical sense, may not be the best word to use in the English poetic sense. 
Rexroth. who was called "the last Bohemian" by the New York Times, greatly amused the audience several times with his insights, particularly with his reason why he writes poetry: "to seduce women and to overthrow the capitalist system~> He also described his insertion of a self­written poem as an anonymous Chinese ballad into an anthology he was editing as an example of the sardonic "booby-traps" he enjoys creating in his scholarly work. 
The discussion also touched upon natural rhythms that are inherent in true poetry, political orien­tations in minority poets and the "general movement back to oral poetry" that Rexroth sees in popular songwriters like Bob Dylan, Leonard Cohen and Joni Mitchell. 
The Festival continues today with a Workshop on Ethnopoetics by Rothenberg at 3:30p.m. in the Library Auditorium, and "An informal evening with Arthur Miller" at 8:00 p.m. in the same place. 
Advertise in 
The Observer 
It pays I 


ATTENTION 
ALL 

GRADUATIN STUDENTS Measurements 
will be taken 
for 


CAPS and 
GOWNS 
Thursday April 12 and 
Friday April 13 between 
9:00-4:00 
at the 
NOTRE 
DAME 



BOOKSTORE 

about a half-hour late, about 200 people attended. Tradition 
The discussion on literary traditions. prompted by a question about the effect other traditions have had on the writers, awas 

• marked by Rothenberg-s com­1 m('nts on the role of the English tradition of writing upon American Pducation. He said that the Am('rican viewpoint of English traditions is restricted in its scope. A culture's perspective on traditions should be a "constant process of transformation," he said but there has always been 
education. 
Sun April 8 
only one "cut" of this in formal l\lodl'rn Pol'try 
When the subject turned to modern poetry, all three had praise for Laura Ryding, another Am('rican poet and critic, for her poetry and her role in attacking the lraditional English form. Ht•xroth called her the "great lost poet of American poetry." He said she wrote most of her best work in the thirties and fourties, which is considered the time when modern­American poetry was beginning to flower. It was a time when Am('rican literary traditionsw W('re. according to Rexroth, just starting too come out of the 

Friday, April 6, 1973 
the observer 
5 


Ta R Lanely Dad in defense of tears 


A few years ago, an old lady, who I love she heard the news, me great grandmother, pressure we sometimes call courage. established by grief. very much moved, in an emotional way, so recently returned 1from the kingdom of Afterwards, the boy was ashamed of his I have never felt there was anything away from her family into the kingdom of sadness, wept Iwi1h the speciali grief that is tears. It seemed like weakness, he said, for unmanly about weeping. If one wonders sadness. For manymonths, she lived in that reserved for the death of children. It was a boy of twenty to be crying. "Forgive me," whether there is evidence that strong men kingdom of sadness, and nothing her family only later that her family knew of the he said, "for feeling sorry for myself." I by the credentials for teardrops can begin could offer--love, the attention of doctors, therapy that was in those tears. The old told him that I sometimes weep--that at with the life of Christ, who wept, who wept, the co'mforts and medicine that money can lady said: "It has been such a long time least once a year that I need to weep--that the Gospel tells us, at the tomb of Lazarus. buy--seemed able to coax her home again. since I have been able to, cry." Of all her weeping is the way that healing comes. But It Is not equally 1eertain, from the evidence She would sit by herself in room of the emotions, frozen inside like the artie waste, l;lhinkthat instead of comforting him, I only of Scripture, whether He ever laughed. But hospital; and no matter how many visitors you see, the ice had clung longest to the Pmbarassed him more, for now he was ash­we know He must have laughed; otherwise she had, she was still alone, aloof and private places of the heart where sorrow amed for both of us.For him, teardrops were He would have been all gloom and tragedy, remote in the places of the;soul that are too broods. _llntil sorrow was able to speak in simply a failure of one's manhood. like a cosmic undertaker. Virgil, the sad for laughter, too deep for tears. the special language we call tears, the den Roman poet, writes of .the "racrimae 
old lady knew that an important part of touched to tears rerum," <the "tears of things"). 
a cure is found herself was still visiting in a distant Chesterton, the Christian apologist, writes 
kingdom. · Sometimes when a boy or a man has wept .nf "the dark laughter of God." The New 
Then one day, a physical ailment was It ts not for nothing that there is, in the in your presence, he feels so humiliated that Testament tells· us nothing of the divine discovered and healed, and she began to be prayerhook, a collectfor thegift of tears. he afterwards tries to avoid you, but this hilarity, but they do ind~ note that there well again. She was able to talk with her 1does not happen often. I think how were tears on the face of Christ, attesting to 
weeping

family, and fret over them, and worry, as a frequently I have seen young people weep the fact that a Virgilian kind of sadness is mother should, whether sweaters were worn Last evening, a boy came into my room. during the last six years at Notre Dame­part of the life-storylof God. and hot meals were served as a defense For a long time, he sat there without lovely young girls touched to tears by tales 
a weeper's gift: laughter
against the winter chill. Often there was a speaking. Finally, I went over and touched of sadness; confident young men touched to twinkle in her lovely Irish blue eyes, and her him on the shoulder, and all at once he tears by the loss of lovely young girls. The little old lady, now home from her laughter was like a !blessing on the home began to weep. There was loneliness in that Weeping has its own ritual: first there are visit to the kingdom of sadness, who needed where for so long a time she had been a weeping, and discouragment over efforts at the teardrops, then the passing out ·of to weep for her healing, gave me laughter as stranger to her children. But still she was studies and friendships, and attempts at Kleenex; the gently touching of the;wounds a gift at birth. Often I write of affairs of not entirelly well, and her final healing did personal growth, all of which seemed with words to bind them up for mending; sadness; but I know there is a redemption in not come until she had suffered a new kind doomed to failure. He wept uncontrollably finally, the first tremulous smile, as un­humour which keeps us from madness. But of sadness. as a child might weep, and he wept helpless certain in its glory as the sun that peeks in in case it needs to be said, I want to say it 
On Holy Saturday, 1965, her only grand­as a man will weep when the restraints, kept and out of clouds after April rain. There is now: don't be afraid of crying. It is at the 
daughter gave birth to a son; the little boy in place too long, are suddenly swept away, now a new bond of love between the priest times we can't cry that the heart must died a few hours after he was born. When and there is the failure of that grace under and the weeper1 because of the communion break. 


wishbone ash: one of the best 
joseph abel/ 

Wishbone Ash has been billed this past ·'Handy" and "Phoenix," the latter ofwhich such as "Vas Dis," and "The Pilgrim" It's potential from a group that doesn't need toweek in The Observer and on the radio as is a minor rock masterpiece with its slow definitely the same band, but in some kind show "potential" because they've already 
"the best boogie band in the land." I dunno bluesy beginning suddenly blossoming into of disguise. realized it 
if that's exactly the right phrase to use, but music that's nothing but bitchy, something That disguise isn't all that bad, though. 
the band certainly rates the adjective "one you don'I find too often in studio recordings, The melodies the group puts out are really e1•olutionof the best." but in live shows. 
quite good. The intra to "The Pilgrim" andThe fault in the description in the ads is Unfortunately, Ash never matches up to "Lullabye" are the products of a guitarist Finally, there's the third album, Argus,not that it's flat out wrong, but that it's in­this very alive album in subsequent en­who's had some training in fields other than released about this time last year. This oneeomplete. Sure, Wishbone Ash can play one deavors. The second album, Pilg•·image, rock and pop, some very good training. The succeeds where Pilgt·image didn't. A more hell of a boogie, but that's not all there is. A was largely ignored, probably because the lines, though simple, come off well. complete mixing of the two directions inlot of groups thrive on a pure rock 'n' roll, band began to get away from the raunchy which Ash is trying to go, Argus manages toboogie-on-brother! diet, but Wishbone Ash and sweaty rock and more into slow blues The only problem is that the band tries to show a broad hint of the pure energy of thegoes further, venturing into very pretty and melodic-oriented music. Some of the mix this gentle persuation in with the grab­first album and a wealth of the sweetmdodies and very good blues. old energy is still there, but it seems to be 'em-by-the-guts stuff and it doesn't quite melodies of the second. The result:Take their first album for example. hiding, surfacing only in one or two cuts, work. Hence, an album with a lot of progression. The evolution of the group 
begun in Pilgrimage is complete. No more 
of the raw power in Wishbone Ash, yet none 
nf the ho-hum feeling of Pilg•·image. The 
band gets together and simply plays good 
roek. Prime examples are "Time Was," 
"Sometime World" and "The King Will 
Come." 

The secret to this is probably in the arranging: a separate quiet and loud passage in most of the songs draw a clear line between the styles. yet don 'I interfere with the eontinuity. The loud passage t'Om{'S naturally from the quiet one, producing a very satisfying feeling. 
But while all this is fine and good. the original hot-'n-sweatv Wishbone Ash of the first album is still the best. More than good roek or rock 'n· roll music. this is sheer po\\'t'r. a power that's hard to resist. This is the concert that'll reallv work on Saturdav night at Morris C'ivic. th-e concert of "Queen of Torture" and "Phoenix" that'll grab your guts and hang on. 
Student Union Proudly Presents 
Entitled simply Wishbone Ash, it made a \'ery small splash in early 1971. But the lucky ones that knew about it were rocking away to the Turner-Turner-Powell­Upton sound long before they began a slow rise on commercial charts. 
a 1!<'11' freshness 

It wasn't a new combination, but a new freshness. Taking an old convention, twin lead guitars, the group didn't fall into the pitfalls of two "leaders," but managed to produce a very well mixed sound. 
The first side has nary a fault. Each of the four titles fairly explodes from the driving "Blind Eye" through a diverse, but poun­ding ''Lady Whiskey," a heavy blues-rock "r:rrors of My Way" to end with a bang with the incredibly violent and nasty "Queen of Torture." This is hard rock at its finest. 
Tlw second side presents two epics: 
RANDALL'S INN TRAVELODGE 
Nothern Indiana's Favorite Meeting Place 
Presents 
JEAN SUMNER, vocalist at the ORGAN and PIANO 
.1n THE HARP PUB 
Every Tuesday through Saturday starting at 8 rt'M 
130 DixieWay South South Bend, Indiana Phone 272-7900 



the observer Friday, April 6, 1973 


Corrected 'Meet your Major' schedule 
Tilt• (lhSl'I"Vl'r apologize.~ for the incorrect listing of the "meet your major" schedule; below is the 
C'<>rr<•t·t sdwdule. 
D<•p.Himenl 

J\tlll'ricclll StudiP~ /\o~tilropoloqy f\r t·t~ ~t11clir-:. Proqrclm H<·l<l '" /\1 I I 1 onon1•c~ 
1 flu< tliiOtl 

I •>qli'>il r,I'IH'rcll Proqrclll1 of Liternl Studies (,,,VI'rtH11t'l11 l•\lcrncllional Rclcltions 
llt•.\ory M11ckrtl dtHI ClclSSiCcll Lanquaqes 
MIIO,it 
l't,,lo...,oplly 1'·.·, CIIOIO<IY 
~.pt•c•rll cltlCI Drclll1cl l>~•t ioloqy 
TltPOioqy lit h11n Stuctir~ 

Hl'ld ;,, 1\l,>ck Studil's 
Dale Location 
/\prll 12 I 00 f'M 103 O'SiJ,1U<IiliWSSY Hi111 /\pril 10 'I :lO f'M M•·m~>ri,11 Lillrilry Lounge coniu•tc1iol1 with the Government 
D•'Pclrflllf'lll · 1\prll 12 'I lfll I'M 177 O'SII,,uqlmcssy Hi111 /\prill1 · H.OOI'M 709 O'Silauqlli1CSSy Hi111 /\pril 10 Y:OO I'M 
703 O'Sii<1Uqlli1C'SSy Hilll /\prll 9 1 110 I'M 
/\rrililrcturr Aud. "•'t' Dc•pclrflllf'nl LllCltrmnn, 318 0'Sft,1Uqlli1CSSy H,111 
/\pril H . I 00 I'M /\pril 10 u on I'M /\pril 10 I lO I'M /\pril H il 00 I'M /\pril lUlU I'M
12 /\prd 10 I 00 I'M /\pril 11 I 00 I'M April 9 H 00 f'M /\l'ril 11 •1:00 I'M cottiunction with lf1e Government /\pril 8 ~.00 I'M 
104 O'Sii<1Uqili1CSSy Hnll 103 O'Sfl,)Uqili1CSSy H,lll 119 0'SI\,1Uqiii1CSSY H,lll 2.12 O'Sii<1Uqi111CSSy Hi111 105 O'Sii<1Uqi1ncssy H,lll 717 f''yc11oloqy Bldg. 103 O'Siwuqi1t1CSSY H,111 )09 M!'moriill Library 119 O'Sii<1Uqi111CSSy Hi111 

Dt•pMII11l'11t 103 O'SI>i1uql111essy Hall 
Braye next editor 
73 Dome nets four awards 
nest year's book. 
"We foresee a very minor change in technique --less graphics than the past two years, and the possible introduction of a few new features; but in spirit, the hook will be much like the last two ~·ears. including the 9 x 10 size. 
Our most important job is to generate year-long interest in the hook. The Scholastic just ran an article on the campus media and not a word was written about our work. If this omission is indicative of student body opinion, then we need to reevaluate the role of the book on campus, and possibly talk about the day when Notre Dame can do without such a service." 
A large recruitment program for the publciation is scheduled within the next few weeks. All interested persons are urged to contact Braye for further information about work on tlw staff at the Dome office in LaFortune ( 1524) or at his room 
( 1:!54). 

:=:=:=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
Observer ads pay off 

HOUitS, 
M~ . TUES • THUll • FRI ' AN. ,5,)0 I'M 
Wa> · SAT 9 AN. 12 NOON COMI'UTE ~BCTACLE


RoGERS 
SUViCE 
All f'. ~DR.'S ~llfSCRtrTIONS HONOfE!


Optical 
aJ'~r C!tnlnnial 

-


Jfanrnkt iJ,fnu.st 

"Enjoy a snack or dinner" 
35 Varieties of Pancakes Chicken -Steak -Sandwiches 
U.S. 31 (Dixieway) North Your Host (Across from Holiday Inn) Bob Edwards '50 
Bray<' 
by Tim Truesdell Starr Rt>porter 

Notre Dame's Hl72 yearbook, l'dited by James Hunt, has received a total of four first and second place awards from the 1ndiana Collegiate Press Association <ICPA). The presentations were conducted on a state-w:de level with Notre Dame competing in the over 3000 enrollment category. 
The fin,t place accolades were for the Best Cover Design and the Best Presentation of Faculty Members. Second place were for 
Best  Over-all  MaJr  uo  and  
Academic Presentation  ·  
1n  a  related  note.  :{P..if;rick  

Braye, a junior American St'.Adies major, was named Editor-in-Chief for the Dome's 1973-74 edition. 
A veteran of three years on the staff, the last two as Student Life Editor. Braye outlined plans for 

U. of N.D./C.A.C. 
Apr. 12-­
7:30 PM 
Apr. 13-­
7:30 PM 
Apr. 14-­

present 

THE COLLEGIATE JAZZ FESTIVAL 
Alpha Kappa Alpha benefit C'Oncert featuring Cannonball AddHiy (Tickets available at the door)  Judges:  Gil Evans, Jimmy Owens, Joe Farrell, Hubert Laws, Roy Haynes, Dan Morgenstern, and Alvin Batiste  
Opening Session of CJ ~  Tickets:  Fri.--$3, Sat. Aft.--$2, Sat. Eve.--$4, Jam Session--52 All Sessions Ticket--$6  
1:30 PM--Afternoon Session of CJF 7:30 PM--Evening Session--Awards Ceremony  Location:  All Sessions will take place at Stepan Center on the campus  

Midnight--Jam Session with CJ F Judges' Combo 
Bands scheduled to play: 

Malcolm X, Texas Southern, Ohio State, Ohio U., Tennessee State, Wisconsin at Madison, Indiana U., M.l.T., Michigan, Governer's State, Triton College, Bowdoin College, Notre Dame and Indiana State. 
Tickets are available at the American National Bank and all brc;mches--also at the C.A.C. office on 
campus. Jam session tickets may be purchased at the door only. For further information call 283-3797 or 233-7033. 
Campus happenings 



King memorial slated 
On Sunday, April 8th at 7:'30 p.m. lh!.' University of Notre Dame will 111:1rk the 5th anniversary of the a~s;:ssination of Dr. Martin Luther King with a memorial service in Sacr!.'d IlPari Church. 
.;The university com­

munity feels constrained to pause for a ·few moments to honor his nwmorv and to reaffirm belief in and support of his dream" the ~ponsoring groups stated. 
.lamPs Farmer. national civil rights leader from Washington will be the featured speaker at the nH•r:norial which is sponsored by the Student Union Academic Com­mission, Office of Campus Ministry and the Black Cultural Arts Festival. 
Farmer's topic will be "He had a dream ...evaluation and im­plem£"ntation." James Farmer founded the Congress of Racial ~<:quality !COREl and has served as chairman of the Council on United Civil Rights Leaderhip, president of the Center for Com­munity Action Education, and as assistant secretary for ad­ministration of Health, Education and W£"lfare. He is the author of "Fn•edom When?" 
Cinema '73 films 

From April 8th to April 12th, Cinema '73 will present five films from the movement known as the French "Nouvelle Vague". Each of the directors represented in the five-day festival of contemporary "classics" of the French Cinema not only worked brilliantly with this "New Wave", but helped to create it. 
The festival will open with Louis Malle's Zazil' Dans La Metro (a eompdy in the classic tradition) on April Hth. and continue with Francois T. Truffaut's Stolen K issl's IApril 9 l ; on April lOth with Claude Chabrol's La Femme In­fidt•lt' <a thriller in the style of Hitchcock's Psycho); on April 11th with .Jacque Demy's Urn­
brellas of Cherboug; and will close on April 12th with Jean-Luc Godard's Brl.'athless (one of the first films of the "Nouvelle Vague", and a film graced by many of the most interesting and effective techniques employed in contemporary cinema). 
Fisher elections 
by Rod Braye Associate Editor 

Joe Cari, a junior sociology major. and Rick Thues, a sophomore American studies major. were elected President and Vice-president of Fisher Hall last Tuesday. The Cari Administration · was elected by a 90 to 47 margin; one of the highest in Fisher Hall history. The substantial two thirds victory seems to indicate a healthy hall unity in the year ahead. 
THE ROMA wercomes 
ND-SMC students 
Your host: Frank Anastasio "We'll make you a pizza you can't refuse" 
*DELICIOUS 
ITALIAN FOOD *PIZZA *LIQUOR 
Dancing to the sophisticated jazz. rock sounds of Bill Nicks Trio. Open until 4:00 am on weekends. 
Happy Hours, 11:30-7:00 daily Special prices for drinks. -For Deliveries Call 234-3258 211 N. Michigan Ave. 
l)owntown South Bend '\:,.xt to !\Iorris Civic 1 

Cari commented that extensive hall renovations are designed to promote better hall spirit for Fisher. The Cari Admi nistration is sponsoring an An Tostal Carnival with the hope of focusing campus attention on Fisher Hall. With an emphasis on unity, Cari's major goal is im­proved hall life for Fisher Hall residents. 
Literary festival 
by David Rust Senior Reporter 

Playwright Arthur Miller and poet Jerome Rothenberg will be speaking once more on campus in separate engagements today, concluding this year's Notre Dame Sophomore Literary Festival. 
Rothenberg, whose current field of interest is ethnopoetics, will be conducting a workshop on the subject at 3:30 this afternoon in the library auditorium. 
The N.Y.-born poet and tran­slator of American Indian poetry look part in a symposium with colleagues John Ashberry and Kenneth Rexroth yesterday af­ternoon, then read from his own work. 
Miller, one of the nation's leading living playwrights, will be fielding questions in the library auditorium at eight this evening. 
But Festival Chairman Frank Barrett told the S.R.O. crowd at Miller's Washington Hall reading last night that "If the crowd is anywhere near this large, we'll be moving back here (to Washington)." 
Miller's appearance will be the final official event of the Festival. 
Farley open house 
b)' George Adelo Staff Rt>porter 

Farley Hall residents will be sponsoring a combination Open House-Party Saturday night April 7 for residents of Walsh and Badin halls who are considering moving in to Farley next year. 
Farley resident Ralph Taccone, who is coordinating the event, said the purpose of the Open House was to acquaint girls now living in Walsh and Badin with Farley Hall and to generate interest in con­tinuing the Hall clubs and organizations that have been part of the Farley Hall tradition. Taccone stated that Farley residents would show the women around the hall and talk to them about continuing the Farley striders, the Farley cyclers and Pop Farley's, a weekly-cof­feehouse featuring local en­tertainment in the Farley basement. 
The Open House-Party scheduled to begin at eighty-thirty will be followed by a hall tour at ten with the party continuing af­terwards. 
iili 
j:::: 
!~ 


~ '·~ z;u~~~r~~:;\~l~i;ea~~S ~~~~~scount !·!!! 
-..I ...... . .,, 
-..fl...•.,...,.,.,., ~ ,,,,_·.,,·,_·.,,·_,,·_,,·,,·,,·_,,·_,,·_,,·_,,·_,,·_,,·_,,·_,,··.,,.·,_,·,,·_,,._,,·_,,·_,.·.:,·.,,·_,,·_,,·_,,·_,,'_,·.•._,·,•_,·,•_,·,•,·,•,·.•.·Y,•••~,,•,·.•,·,•,·.•,·.•.·.•.·.•,·.•,·,·,',.·••"·"···"·.w..,..,··,.·.. ..____...
.. .. ·-.:.-,,'.··:..','·.'.(,•_f.~}?

• : ... -·~---· .... .::::r:: f:J?tll:r;; }'{::;{:;:;:::;:rt ··---.. . ~.... e':;;;.:. 
WRBR Presents: 
an all English Concert 
Wishbone Ash 

"the best boogie band in the land" and 
Vinegar Joe 
Saturday April 7th 8pm at the Morris Civic Aud. 
'450 adv., '5°0 at door 
Tickets Available at the Auditorium Box Office noon to spm daily, at The Crypt Records and at Pandora's Book Store 
A North American Production 
,. • ' ., I t f t f I • f f f t f t 1 • I I I I I I I I I I ,. I I /1 1J 
0 
!,_.7

Friday, April 6, 1973 the observer 
Holy Cross Hall presents IN CONCERT GREENLEAF 
Kevin Dockrell, Milo Kosich, Patrick Kronen­wetter, Harry Soza and Jim Gresst:r & Bart Pollock 
SATURDAY, APRIL 7 8:00pm HOLY CROSS (NO) AUDITORIUM 
FREE 
BRING YOUR BLANKETS 


,•tlt'rltlCI 15 pt"fCf'llt oft on clll tun(" .l•1d Jtr.upC'r Ro,ldS. l'P'• •'•HI llltH"r rf'pclirs. Celli 272 
0676 ·"" '""'' "r 'top b~ Rollin' \\'tu•••l' Suo1oco 179SS Slolle Road .'3 I f\1 ro~s trom Greenwood's ..... I'PP•·\(· c.~.,tt.'r.) 

1' 6 '# f I' 7-I' I' f I I I t I ( I jl, ' .... • t ' ' "' 0 '
f f 

! 
t 
I 
~ 
! a 
t 
• 
I f 
the observer Friday, April 6, 1973
8 
Irish face second opening game 

"·'· Stan llrankar hasPhall team travels to W1sconsm lor I 1'1\1 CST. tomorrow and scrimma~P gamPs." . . . . . 
for a four-game series against the Sundav afternoons. s< cond. and soph J1m Sm1th at Notn• Dam<• will he seeing red--Big T<'n Badgers. The two seven-('oa~·h .Jake Kline's squad will "1\1~· main .concern since T.ul.sa shortstop to r~und ~ut the infield ;1gain -this wPekend as the Irish inning doubleheaders are slated again aiiPmpt to gel in their first has hP<'n lrym~ to get a deflmte \\hll<• hard-lulling D1ck Nussbaum official diamond action since starlmg lineup." the \'eteran Irish l.:i.J!ll and f<:d I ange c.316) will t·omplt>ling a stint at the Hurricane coach addt>d. "Then• are a lot of tt•:nn with Hansen in the outfield. Ht•\'iPw in Tulsa three weeks ago. play<·.rs deserving a chance. 1\linP again will use the lluring that time. Kline has been t•spet·lally among the outfielders, dPs1gnaiPd pinch hitter rule, fon·ed to continue using the ACC hut tlw \\'Palh<'r .hasn't given me ad1~ptPd hy the l.~ig TPn for use in lor practicP sessions as the un-man~· opportumlles to test them tlw1r ganws th1s season. That springlikc South Rend weather has· agamst our pitchers." ':ould give outfielders Ken limitPd N.D. scrimmage time at "That's why the Hillsdale games St:hustPr. llowar? Wood, Mike ('artiPr Fit>ld. IIH'ant so much to us. 1 wanted the C1 Nt·ill. and l'et<• Uemcns a shot at l'ham·e to gpt as many boys into the ph·.nt~: ol \\'PPkend playing time. "WI' lost two garnPs with lint>up as possibiP and see how they St·mors. H1ck 1<:1ch and Mike Hillsdale TuPsday because it was l'nuld do und<•r game conditions. HJddt'll will get the nod for mound

11

stillloot'old and wpt to ~et any kind l'ould have given them good PX-l'hnn•s in ~aturday'sof action in." Kline commented. pPriPIH'e lor these Wisconsin douhlt'lwader, then Khne expects "The \\'Pallwr has hurt us because ganws... In t·onw h;1rk with hard-throwing it hasn't given mp the chance to see !\lark l'ittrnan and frosh Mitch our pitehers in any respectable <'aplain Bob Roemer has Stoltz in the Sunday twinbill. 
n•coverpd from a broken finger Young Stoltz already has a 2-0 sufferPd against Arkansas on the ,,·hilewash of Npw Mexico State toIrish stickmen soutlwrn t•xcursion, and the senior his <TPdil while ace Riddell has a l'atdwr's hat and defense will be down strikeouts and a 3.60 ERA in meet OSU Bucks n•adily w<'lcomPd. Roemer is l!l innings to go with his 1-1 record. hitting a .:J81 dip, including six Nott·p DamP will return home to Tlw Fighting Irish lacrosse HBJ's and nine walks. face another tough Big Ten squad, !Pam. unbeaten this season, will l\1ichi~an Slate, in a Tuesday af­
Tlw only changes expected in the
nH'et Ohio State's Buckeyes on ternoon doubleheader at Cartier.
starting lineup for Saturday af­
Saturday, in a 2 p.m. game behind 
ternoon's series opener should
Sl<'pan Center.
.The Irish nine wtll tangle with Wisconsin this weekend. have junior Pat Coleman getting 
Buggers switch 
Tlw visiting Bucks are 0-3, but 

his first chance in varsity corn­
an• IPd by All-American Skip van 
petition at third base with
Burgondien. an offensive standout Notre Dame's rugby team has
rlependable Tom Hansen <.306)
who scored six goals against the announced a time change for
moving to left field.
Irish last year. tomorrow's games with Maryland. ND is 4-0 going into tomorrow's The remainder of the starting The "B" game will take place at


The Irish Eye 
game, is scoring an average of unit will look as it did for most of I ::!0 p.m., and the "A" game at nine goals per game, and is the Tulsa tour. Mark Schmitz will 2:45. and both will be played on the allowing but 3.5. be at first, veteran Pete Schmidt at field behind Stepan Center. 

Netters face po"Werful U of M
During the three years that I've turned out sports columns for The Ohst•n·•·•·. I don't think I've written more than a half-dozen in the first 
in that order followed by up­who might miss the match Monday
by John Fineran

pPrson. It's always seemed egotistical to me to write that way. Only 
perclassmen and Big Ten champs because of football engagement on 
when an occasion specifically called for it did I use the first JY --son:· This 
in their own right, Kevin Senich, Cartier Field, John Carrico,
Whe~ the drizzle and cold came

is one of those occasions. 
Dick Ravreby, and captain Tim Brandon Walsh, and captain Rob
Wednesday to Kalamazoo, the
·'Last" or "final" columns are a tradition of sorts on Th·~ 01:,;f:r·ver 
Ott. These seven players will also Schefter also won their single
Notre Dame tennis team was
sports sta.ff. In the past, they've been generally maudlin, sentim~r.tal, be paired for the doubles com­matches. with Walsh and Schefter
prepared for the indoors, After all, 
unprofessiOnal and not of campus-wide interest--traits that I've tned to petition. encountering very little difficulty
the team had done almost all of its
Plirninate from s~orts articles during my four years on the staff, the last at all.
preseason practicing inside the "It is no wonder why Michigan is 
two as Sports Ed1tor. But this column is written in the first personand it's Because of the time element, the
Fieldhouse portion of the A.C.C. rated fifth nationally," Fallon
all of those things that I mentioned because it's my last chance to thank doubles matches were conducted
The Irish netters looked im­went on.
th<• rnany people that have helped me put out a sports page since the "pro-style" Wednesday. In this
pressive, defeating Western 
spnng of 1971 and it's my final opportunity to reminisce about four very The Irish will try to stop the method, double teams play until
Michigan 7-2 and raising their
Pnjoyable years of covering the Notre Dame sports scene. Wolverines with Chris Kane and one or the other reaches 10 with a
record to 2-4. Now the task gets
Without trying to sound like Oliver Barrett III, I say without shame Rick Slager leading the way. Kane margin of two matches. Carrico­
even tougher for Coach Tom
that my fondest memories of Notre Dame center around the Athletic and had a tough time on Wednesday, Walsh and Schefter-Paul Reilly
Fallon's team--six matches in as
Convocation Center and not the Memorial Library or O'Shaughnessy dropping his singles match, and won easily <10-4 and 10-6 respec­
many days with highly-regarded
IIaII. along with Slager a doubles as well. Fallon to
tively), nnd plans use
Michigan starting things off It isn't the games or the trips or the fancy press rooms that I'll Monday afternoon at 3:00 p.m. in Mark Reilly looked good with a them and the Kane-Siager combo 
comeback 3-6,7-6,6-3, win. Slager, against the potent Michigan duos.
l'<'!m•rnher as being the best part of this job. After a while, you take those the Courtney Tennis Center. 
thmgs for granted. It's the people who are special. 
"Michigan is really a 

There were a lot of speCial times: the chats with "Lefty" Smith as I 
powerhouse," Fallon said "Our 
watched him bring the Notre Dame hockey program to national 
kids are looking forward to playing 
prominence.: walki~g off Cartier Field on late fall afternoons, talking to 
Michigan and the competition they 
Ara: ~wappmg stones with Mike CrPaney: discussing playoff prospects 
will bring. It will be a pleasure to 
\nth Steve Curry and Ian Williams on an almost interminable bus ride 
see them in action." 
hack from Michigan State; shaking hands with Dwight Clay in the locker 
Fallon's oleasure -::ould turn to

room after Irish basketball games; sitting alone with Mark Kronhom 
agony, howevt•r, before Monday
;lf'tpra pre-garn.P meal, whiling away the too-long hours before leaving for 
afternoon is through. So strong are
llw rmk: watchmg "Hawk" Stevens doing his act at the annual basketball 
the Wolverines that Coach Brian
!>,anquet: w,<tlking back ~rom ~uluth's arena with assistant hockey coach 
Eisner will bench former Big Ten
I1m l\kN<•11l after the Insh clinched second place in the league by beating 
ehamp Mike Ware and use another
lluluth: hstenmg to <;erry DiNardo describe his "special" blocking 
singles player, Jeff Miller, a
tPehmquPs: sitting in Robby Minnix's room while he described the ex­
United States representative to
pPri<•nce of being a b~ack athlete at Notre Dame; Walking off a late 
this summer's Maccabiah Games
dmrwr wrth M;~rk Stemborn; eating Pete Crotty's specially prepared 
in Israel, only in doubles.
"(TabiPrl <'ggs lor breakfast. The Wolverines crop of freshmen
AI!Pr thP intPrviews. the practices, the games, came the work at the 
this year is so impressive that
papPr. And another great bunch of people. 
three newcomers will occupy the
T C .. with his smelly cigars and witty conversation Dan and Beth 
first three spots in singles. Victor
hippi<• Gt•orge, eoach Frischkorn, gabby Chris Sulliva~. Motty and hi~ 
Amaya, Fred DeJesus, and Eric
culcha. father Jo:rl Jo:llis, John the boss, Kathy Schwille, Rod Braye, our 
Friedler will occupy the positions Chris Kane



own hystPrical Hoosier. Marlene, Joe and Maria, Dandy Don Ruane, p1clun•rnan Hobby Hughes and his slllTl'Ssor. weirdo Jerome the Hutdwr. and JPrry. You could say many things about the nights ~t the papPr. hut you could never say they were dull. 
Tlw guys on the sports staff have been great. "Lefty" Ruschmann had ;1ssignmPnts as varied as varsity basketball and bookstore basketball and handiPd them all equally well. 
Stan llrankar's stories weren't often in on time, but they didn't need l'dltmg once they were turned in. His trouncing of "Redman" Tyrrell in "Tiw Sports (~uiz" ensured his spot in Observer immortality. 
I k.~<·w lhl• staff would be shorthanded this year and asked Greg Corgan ann I om l\ll'K<·nney for help. They gave me plenty.. And a lot of laughs 111 th~· process. Along with Vic Dorr, they'll form the nucleus of next 'Pars sports staff. 
\'1c l>orr's in a class by himself 

I can't say enough good things about Vic. I know that I wouldn't have lw<'n abiP to put out a decent sports page the past two years without him. 111~ \Hitmg was always first-rate and he never minded staying up until 4 or.> am puttm~ the paper. mstead of himself, to bed. 
\\'t'n• sharPd a lot of fine t!mes in a lot of places, and I enjoyed every lnmutP ol thPm. Thanks. V1c--for everything. 
l'!'ggy t·om<•s at the l'nd of this column. Because of Thl' Obsener, she had to t·onw after a lot of other things. But she wasuspdto waiting. She ~at with friends while I was in the press box, studied in my room while I '' ;1s 1•ngrossed at the I ypewriter. helped me put corrections on the layout ~hl•t•t while our fnends were out partying. 
I mailt•d hPr my first Ohst•npr story when I was a freshman. Since tlwn. tlw guys in the office say. I've written more words in Thl' Obser\'t'r than an~·om• Plse. and Pl•ggy's read them all. !\;ow I'm writing the last onl's. and I wanted them to be about her. 

White Sox Opening Day Trip Tuesday, April 1 0 
Friday Last Day For Payment 12-5 
Ticket Office -2nd floor La Fortune 
A few reservations still being taken.­
For more information carl: Leo Breen--418 Morrissey 3651 Mike Lins·-3648 







