
EXTRA! EXTRA! 
On The Inside 
Law additions almost done •.. page 2 Griff gives Senior Fellow talk •••page 4 


serving the notre dome , st. mary's community 
\Friday, May 4, 1973

Vol. VII, No. 121 


New dean of students, directors of housing 
Faccenda announces shakeup 
, by Jerry Lutkus Editor-in-Chief 

Dr. Philip Faccenda, vice president for student affairs, announced a massive shake-up in the central staff of the student affairs office at the Wednesday meeting of the Student Mfairs Committee of the Board of Trustees. 
Fr. James Riehle, dean of students, has been moved to a position of administrative assistant to Faccenda. Succeeding him will be John A. Macheca. Macheca, from Chicago, Illinois is presently a regional director of development for the university, a position he has held since 1969. 
Returning to the structure of the central staff after a year's absence will be an assistant dean of students Fr. Terry Lally, rector of Stanford Hall, has been named to that position. 
Speaking of Riehle, Faccenda noted that he's done a fantastic job in the position that he has held since 1967. "But," Faccenda continued, "it's too much to ask anyone to stay in that job for more than 6 years." 
Housing 

Most affected in the shake-up was the area of student housing. For next year, Father James Flanigan, associate vice president for student affairs, will work with two men to coordinate all housing. 
Alumni Hall rector, Fr. John Mulcahy, will be director of campus residence, and Father James Shilts will head the newly formed office of off-campus residence. 
"Wherever our students reside," Faccenda ex­
plained, "we'll have a program of residence to help 
them." 
Student Activities 

Fr. David Schlaver, now director of volunteer ser­
vices will move to the post of director of student ac­
tivities. Leaving that position is Dr. Robert Ackerman, 
who was appointed director of professional staff 
development. 
Faccenda explained that there was a "big unfilled 
need" in the area of staff development and commented 
that Ackerman was the only staff member with the 
training necessary to fill that need. 
"Bob <Ackerman) did a fantastic job this year," the 
vice president claimed. "The job he did now, three 
years ago was thought to be the vice president's job." 
Further changes in the student activities area will 
bring Cassell Lawson into the central staff. Lawson 
will handle off-campus student activities while serving 
as liason man between student affairs and the 
university's minority students. 
Lawson is presently a doctoral candidate in coun­
seling psychology at Notre Dame. 
Services 

Director of Student Services next year will be 
Brother Just Paczesny. The man who will inherit most 
of the duties formerly handled by Father Shilts is the 
principal of Marquette High School in Michigan City. 
Father Tom Tallarida, rector of Zahm, will be 
director of staff services. This will entail, as Faccenda 
explained, doing "everything that we don't do." 
Father Thomas Chambers will return to the student affairs office as assistant to the vice president. Presently, Chambers is completing doctoral work and will receive more responsibility when he completes that work, according to Faccenda. 
Also remaining with the central staff will be Fr. William Toohey, director of campus ministry, and Jeanne Swartz, assistant to the vice president. 
The Changes 

In the changes, 6 rectors have been added to the central staff which has burgeoned from 7 to 13 people. This is in line with Faccenda's expressed desire to include the rectors in the policymaking functions of the university. 
He termed the rectors as "untapped source" and noted that most of them desired duties outside of their positions in the halls. 
Despite staff jokes of being on a carousel, Faccenda made it clear that movement within the office was part ..-, of his goal. 
"People will move around in the department to mature and take on different responsibilities," he claimed. "People are not being moved because they didn't do the job." 
Faccenda made his appointments and comments in the section of his presentation to the student affairs committee entitled "Forecast 1973-74." He continued by viewing the challenges of the next school year. 
Need to Define 

"We've tended to be community-minded while the rest of the world has defined their relationships in quasi-legal terms," he claimed. "Already the AAUP is 

Dr. Thomas Carney (left), chairman of the Student Affairs Committee of the Board of Trustees confers with Dr. Philip Faccenda, vice president of student affairs over a point of clarification in Wednesday's meeting. 
(Staff photo by Jim Hunt) 

admonishing the university for having nothing defined." 
But he was quick to counter that he hoped people would not think that this was a preface to a list of new rules for the university. 
"We don't expect to change anything," he stated. "The minimum standards of living together haven't changed, but they do nonetheless exist." 
With that, the vice president announced the for­mation of a committee to find ways to "draw attention to traditional values come September." 
"It's a question of how are we going to proclaim our traditional position," Faccenda noted. "But the im­portant thing is to say it without the 'big change' reaction." 
The committee wil include Dennis Etienne, president of the student body; Fred Baronowski, chairman of the Hall President's Council; and Jerry Lutkus, editor of The Observer. 
These three are the first appointments to the com­mittee. Later jn the meeting, Faccenda emphasized that women will be well-represented on the committee. 
Trustees Meeting 

Faccenda was speaking before the Student Mfairs Committee of the Board of Trustees who also heard reports from Flanigan (Residence Hall Staffs), Toohey 
. <Campus Ministry), Ackerman (Student Activities), and Riehle <Housing) in conjunction with the Vice President's. 
Flanigan reported to the Trustees the work that has been accomplished in the past year in the area of hall staffs. He emphasized that this year, the ~ponsibility for training R.A.'s has been placed on the hall staffs. 
But likewise the student affairs office has included general meetings of R.A. 's where they can speak about the problems they've encountered and help others while receiving help themselves. 
Flanigan looked forward to next year and expressed his desire to supply more of these meetings for the R.A.'s. 
Campus Ministry 

In outlining the year for campus ministry, Toohey noted that '"it's crucial to do something more to make 
the  students  realize  that  they  are  the  principal  
ministers on campus."  
He  also  made  light of  the  continuing  series  of  

programs on campus that his office has sponsored, the creation and success of the Bulla Shed, and the fact that ministry office is now become a team of people instead of a single man's responsibility. 
Dr. Ackerman expressed his happiness with the success of the office of student activities in the past year. Despite some minor failures he had encountered, he looked forward with optimism to next year. 
Housing Crisis 

The housing problem brought a review from Fr. Riehle. Riehle informed the Trustees that despite rumors, the inclusion of women in the Notre Dame community has not resulted in the forcing off-campus of ND male students. 
In respective of who was admitted to campus, Riehle explained, someone would have to be asked to move. There are 5100 beds and 6800 students. 
........llllllliiUUIIIIIIIIIIII!!HUIUU' 
This special edition of _The Ob­server has been made necessary by important events within the past couple days. Particularly important is the decision of Dr. Philip Faccenda to reorganize the central staff of the student affairs office. 
However, it is essential that Faccenda's motives for the scheduling of the meeting of th~ student affairs committee not be questioned. The central staff was working under the impression that 
'The Observer would publish until Friday. This was not the case and when brought to light, the result was this special edition of the paper. 
--ed. 


JSAUP debates faculty involvement 
by Don Ruane 
The question of faculty involvement in student affairs prompted the most debate during the Spring meeting of the American Association of University Professors, Wednesday night. 
The issue rose from the presentation of the "Report on Residence Hall Procedures," which was an investigative report of the Lewis Hall incident. 
Some of the faculty attending the meeting questioned the responsibility of the AAUP to intervene in the situ.tion. Usually the AAUP deals only in faculty matters, but has acted in student situations in the past when it appeared that the student's academic rights were violated or were in danger of violation. 
In general the association concurred with· the report, according to Prof. Dennis Dugan, who was installed as president during the meeting. They also went beyond concurrence to discuss the values inplicit in the whole issue. 
The discussion was concerned with ad­ministrative procedures, and the conclusion was that the values Notre Dame supports should be clearly specified and that there ' should be procedures to "ensure some due process by which these values are main­tained throughout this University,'.' Dugan said. 
The Spring meeting served as a forum for the AAUP for present its annual committee reports. In addition to the hall procedures report, there were reports on the status of women at Notre Dame, academic gover­
· nance, academic freedom, and salaries and 
economics of the profession. Officers for the 
1973-74 year also were installed. 
The members of Committee W, on the 
status of women, said they were willing to 
continue their efforts to better the position 
of women at Notre Dame, although they 
found "few women are prepared to do more 
than verbalize their complaints.'' The 
committee also found women to be 
somewhat uncooperative here in light of 
only a 36 percent response to a census and 
questionaire the committee sponsored. 
The committee, according to Dugan, will 
try to find out more about the particular 
status of women in the academic area. This 
means they will try to determine who is full 
(continued on page 4) 
-· M 

the observer Friday, May 4, 1973 ' 

Law School readY by fall 

fri may 
8:30 p.m.-musical, yOu're a good man charlie brown, little theatre 9:00-2:00 a.m.-coffeehouse concert, smc coffee shop 
sat may 5 
1:30 p.m.-football, blue-gold game, nd stadium 
2:30p.m.; 8:30 p.m.-musical, yo're a good man charlie brown. little theatre 
8:00 p.m.-concert, music of india, lib. aud. 
sun may 6 
7:30, 10:00 p.m.-movie, thoroughly modern millie, eng. aud. 
8:30 p.m.-musical, you're a good man charlie brown, little theatre 
by Terry Keeney St.aff Reporter 
The new addition to the Notre Dame Law school is nearing completion and will hopefully be ready by the beginning of the fall semester, according to David T. Link, Associate Dean of the Law School. 
"For the most part the addition is a library expansion," said Dean Link who headed up planning the addition. The expansion will triple the current student seating capacity and double the book capacity. 
In addition, Link noted other interior changes. "What most people do not realize from the outside is that the entire inside has been redone," Link said. 
The remodeled classrooms will be tiered and be patterned somewhat after classrooms in the Hayes-Healy building. Because two new classrooms are to be added on the window-less interior, the law school will be air­conditioned. The new classrooms, when completed, will have the unique ability to convert instantly into model courtrooms. 

Link believes that the renovated 
Law School building will prove 
vastly advantageous to the 
Wenninger-Kirsch building, which 
housed the Law School this year. 
The expanded library will be a 
much more comprehensive facility 
and, according to Link, will 
provide an easier academic at­
mosphere because students will be 
able to study together in one 
library. 
The library will house the Civil Rights Library, a collection of Civil Rights materials donated by Father Hesburgh. "The Civil Rights Library will become the place to go to garner many civil rights materials," predicted Link. 
Dean Link expressed en­thusiasm about the equipment for the new classrooms which include some of the latest audio-visual techniques. 
"The most exciting thing to us as teachers is that it will be a well­equipped building," Link said. 
"Plus the fact it will be a very attractive building for students to study." 
Afthough the Law School building will be expanded, the 
Station~ changes defended 
by WRBR-WJVA employee 
_by Joseph Abell Managing Editor 

Declaring that format.\ changes were merely "coincidental" with the management changeover at WRBR-WJVA radio stations, a station employee labeled a protest led by two South Bend merchants as "ridiculous." I 
"The change of format was decided several weeks before the chdngeover by the the Booth Broadcasting Company (owners of WRBR-WJVA)," said the em­ployee, who asked not to be identified. He added that the change was due to a number of reasons other than the financial one cited by the protest leaders, Steve Raymond and John Seidl of Pandora's Books. 
ND rugby team to compete nationally 

Dr. Edna L. Benken, president of Palmer College of Chiropractic Indiana Alumni Association, has announced lthe participation of Notre l Dame University's rugby team in the second annual National Collegiate Rugby Championship Tournament to be held in Davenport~ Iowa on May 5­6 
Sixteen teams from across the nation are taking part in the competition. The games to be played simultaneously on three fields will progress through the eliminations with the climactic championship game played at 3 p.m., Sunday May 6. 
The Palmer College of Chiropractic <Davenport) rugby team is the current national champion and tournament hpst, having defeated Navy in the final game of the series played on the campus of Washington & Lee University in the spring of 1972. 
"We're attempting to serve the largest segment of the public as possible; that's the only way to make money in this business," he said. "To stop serving the public to make money is self­contradictory." 
He cited a marketing survey taken by an independent company 
(continued on page 4) 
enrollment will not increase. Commenting that the expansion was done for the benefit of current law students, Link noted that the student lounge will be enlarged. He expressed the hope that this ad­dition would • help increase the "community'' atmosphere in the Law School. 
The new Law SChool addition has been estimated at a cost of $1.6 million. 

Denial of station license sought by protesters of new-for:mat 
by Joseph Abell and Maria Gallagher 
The procurement of legal counsel is the latest move in protest to a local radio station change of format, announced protest .1eader Steve Raymond. 
South Bend attorney Edward Welch offered his services to the group of South Bend community members and is currently working on a possible petition to deny against the station, WRBR-FM, according to Raymond. A Petition to Deny allows a group of people to petition the ·Federal Com­munications Commission to deny a radio station license renewal. 
Currently, Raymond's organization is attempting to collect as many petition signatures as possible in the South Bend area. No exact number has been recorded so far, but Raymond estimated that between 600 and 1,000 signatures have been collected, about 100 of those from Notre Dame-st. Mary's. • 
He added that no specific number was necessary to file a Petition to Deny, only a number that would demonstrate a "response from a large segment of the community." Petition sheets have been distributed over a wide area, he said, and collection has yet to be completed. 

"We feel we can get considerable support for the petition and do something about radio programming in this area," he said. 
He speculated that the movement for a Petition to Deny would eventually become a request for a Comparative Hearing. A more drawn-out process, this results from a request to buy the station's license and involves FCC hearings in Washington to decide on the sale. 
Raymond mentioned that at least one person has come forward and has offered to buy the station. He declined to identify the in­dividual, but describes him as meeting FCC regulations and in possession of sufficient funds. 
Welt:f1listed die charges against WRBR as not having lived up to an FCC act of 1934 which makes radio stations "public property" and gives them a responsibility to broadcast "in the public interest." 
He also charged that WRBR abandoned their former format without a public survey or proper 
notifcation of the public. 


~~t% 

fuj

SUNDAY MAY 13th 


available at: 
Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
SMC elections 
The results of Saint Mary's class elections this week : 
Seniors, class of '74 Mary Ellen Stumpf (President) Muffet Foy (Vice-president) Sue Lamboley (Secretary) Martha SantAmour (Treasurer) 
Juniors, Class of '75 Carol Collins (President) Beth Jones (Vice-president) Katie Ryan (Secretary> Katie Cassidy (Treasurer) 
Sophomores, Class of '76 Kay Thomas (President) Melanie Hackett (Vice-president) Donnie Pool <Secretary) Kathy Keenan (Treasurer) 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations 1 by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S8 per semester ($14 per year) from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 
' 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 

under 24 years old? FLY BOAC Youth Fare --good for 1 year! --fly to any European City! 
. call Clark, 283-8810 

MAIN CHURCH SUNDAY MASSES 
5:15 Sat -Fr. Robert Griffin, CSC 
9:30 Sun. -Fr. George Wiskirchin, CSC 
10:45 Sun -UNDECI OED 
12:15 Sun -Fr. William Toohey, CSC 
"Evensong" vespers at 4:30 p.m. Sunday. 
Con~~ssions are heard before weekday mass and 
from 7:00 to 7:30p.m. Monday through Saturday. 
ATTENTION 


ALL SOPHOMORES 
Place your ring orders before you leave for summer vacation I 
Hours: 1:30pm to 4:30pm Mon-Fri SOPHOMORES may piclc up their rings Sept. 12 
HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
• 
'I' 




THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT StUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Art Ferranti Executive Editor 
Lee Gentine Business Manager Jerry Lutkus 

Dan Barrett

Editor~in-Chief 
Executive Editor 

N-EWS: 283-1715 
John Kloos

EDITORIALS: 283-8661 
A'dvertising Manager

BUSINESS: 283-7471 
Friday, May 4, 1973 
' ­
The Student Affairs Shuffle 
In announcing the members of his central staff for the coming academic year, Dr. Philip Faccenda probably made his most· significant statement in describing the method by which those men were selected. 
No one has been appointed to any position on the staff. Faccenda worked to discover which men available to him had not only the potential, but the ambition to undertake th~ responsibilities of a staff position. And then he proceded to offer those men a position.
Anyone who today holds a position on the central staff of the Student Affairs Office is there because he has expressed desire to be there. With the apparent increase in emphasis that is being placed on the office of Student Affairs to define the life style of the Notre Dame student, it is of the utmost importance that the central staff be comprised of motivated, capable people. 
From all indications, this newly­announced staff has both the motivation and the ability necessary to accomplish their goals. 
Tapping New Talent 

For the first time, rectors have been 
included in the makeup of a major ad­
ministrative body, through a number of 
part-time posts that will hopefully 
compliment their work in the halls. The 
past year witnessed much discontent on 
the part of those hall mentors regarding 
their contribution to the making of 
decisions affecting their halls. 
The new central staff exhibits a con­
scious effort to utilize the rectors' 
abilities and imput. 
The Carousel 

Obvious within the revamping of the Student Affairs staff is the shuffling of existing staff members into different areas. Dr. Faccenda explained the need for people to shift positions in order to avoid stagnation. While this philosophy is definitely condusive to an effective and dynamic staff, the shifts in position pose some interesting questions as to the nature and need for the new jobs. 
After· serving only one year as director of Student Activities, Dr. Robert Ackerman has been named as Director of Professional Staff development, his third position in as many years at Notre Dame. Dr. Ackerman is the most highly credentialed man in the area of ad­ministrative psychology, and is probably the only man at Notre Dame capable of helping members of the staff in their efforts to gain a sense of direction. But the very newness of the position of the post implies definite need for definition. It will be up to Dr. Ackerman to give depth and meaning to what could con­ceivably become a very nebulous position. 
The shift of Fr. Riehle to the post of administrative assistant to the vice­president holds the same potential for ob~urity. As Dr. Faccenda pointed out in his announcement of the former Dean of Student's new position, Fr. Riehle has proven himself an able administrator; but his new position lacks the definition of either of his former posts. Again, the importance of motivation cited earlier will play an extremely important role in deciding whether or not his new post will be of significant value. 
But this lack of definition which seems 
to surround many of the new central staff 
positions can be as valuable as it could be 
deterring. Should all of the persons live 
up to their potential as administrators, 
thgir positions could develop as they do­
it will be up to those persons as in­
dividuals to give real direction to the 
office of Student Affairs, and up to Dr. 
Faccenda as Vice-President to see that 
every member of that staff is given the 
freedom and opportunity to develop his or 
her area as their appointment has ob­
viously deemed them capable. 
Butch Ward 





Last View 

The l:iraduateView 

Getting It Together 
billlavafde 
During the two and one-half weeks since my election to the presidency of the GSU, I have been asked on several occasions what I proposed to do now that I "commanded" the helm of the organization In the few lines that follow, I hope to convey to graduate students my hopes and fears regarding the proper function and role of the GSU in the larger scheme of things at this university and to briefly note some of the substantive proposals raised as possible focal points for GSU concentration next year. _ 
'!'hose who read the pla~orms of the GSU presidential candidates priOr. to the rece~t election know that I committed myself fo a sustamed effort dll'ected toward meaningful improvement in the 
. qualityof graduate student life at Notre Dame;and to purposeful programs based on dynamism, creativity, and sensitivity to graduate student needs and demands. I believed then as I do now that the 'qualityof graduate education suffers whn 'morale is l~w when meaningful social outlets and activities do not exist and whn a general notion of graduate student "intellecuality", clima'te, or "culture" is absent. Moreover, to me the viability and legitimacy of the GSU as the only graduate student representative organization on campus has ~een calle~ into question too often and br too many people (unfairly at times, I might add) for the GSU to contmue as before without serious self-st~dy_ and re-orientation of priorities and direction. Any orgamzabon funded wholly by students and which depnds for its authority and responsibilities solely on a student constituency courts disaster ifit fails to respond to an obvious need for change. 
With these considerations in mind, I propose to re-order GSU priorities along lines. designed to make the organization much more service-oriented in nature. "Think-tank" sessions with the officers of the new GSU ad!fiinistration and several concerned fellow-graduate students. have y1~lded a study agenda consisting of the following substantive services and programs: (1) a meat purchasing co­operative; (2) a graduate student blood bank; (3) a film festival· (4) a lecture series utilizing to the greatest extent possible faculty and gra~uate student speakers on a broad range of interests; (5) amiual or semi-annual "flea market"; (6) mixed bowling billiards or table !ennis leagues; (7) comprehensive hospitalizati~ and rna~ medical msurance; (8) an interdisciplinary graduate journal· (9) babysitting services; (10) well-organized and establiabed parti;. and piclnics· 
(11) "graduate student nights" for discounted food and drinka at Iocai establis~m~nts; (12) a graduate wives organization. 
The hm1ted space available here obviously precludes further elaboration of these proposed ideas. '!bey were conceived however with the necessity of appeal to a broad spectrum of gramu;te student desires, needs, and tastes in mind. They are not definite projects to wh~ch.the_GSU ha~ irrevocably committed itself. They are noted only as md1cabons of kinds of programs which appear to be both feasible an desireable from the viewpoint of resources and previous student im­puts. 
I would like to stress that these proposed services and programs will be s~bmit~ed to th~ g~aduate students at large by means of a qu~b.onnaire .to be distributed by each GSU representative next week. 
It IS Imperative that the GSU have some idea of the amount of in­terest, support, and participation these ideas are likely to enjoy in the event they are implemented. 
It is important to note that the above-outlined services and program~ do not by any means exhaust the list of possible or planned und~ta~mgs by the GSU next year. We will actively pursue in­vesbgab?n of the T.A. salary and tax problem, seating arrangements for marned students at home football games, possible changes in li­brar~ hours during_ holidays and vacations, the paving of the C-2 parkmg ar~a, election procedures for GS~ officers and men}bers, change of time and-or-place of GSU meetmgs the campus security sitation <particularly as it affects women grad~ate students residing ?n f.C~mpus), the implementation of formal and acceptable ad­JUdicatory pr~cedures for graduate students, and improvement in ~ra~uate housmg on and off campus. Even these investigations are 
.1~m1ted only by the failure of graduate students to bring other problems and concerns to the attention of the GSU. , I hope that this brief agenda is indicative of our desire to attune the GSU to the more visible and immediate needs and desires of graduate students. Our resources in ti~e and money are limited and relatively scarce. We must of necessity choose the alternatives open to us ca~efully in order to meet basic problems head-on. Ideally, were we to enJOY the best of all possible worlds, ours would be an organization _anxious and capable of pursuing noble goals on all fronts. In this more mundane existence, however, we must strive to achieve the im­mediate and possible. 
I suppose it is characteristic of all "calls to arms" to state that nothing is poss~ble. without "you", that "your support" is essential, th~t the GSU Will r1se and fall on the tides of student interest. I don't thmk that kind of . admonition is appropriate or necessary. As graduate stud~nts With common concerns, interests, and hopes, we all have a stake m "getting it together." 
the· observer 

Managing Editor: Joe Abell News Editor: Anthony Abowd Editorial Editor: Butch Ward 
Wire Editor: Tom Drape Features Editor: Beth Hall 
SMC Editor: Maria Gallagher 
Sports Editor: Vic Dorr 
Associate Editor: Rod Braye 
Night Editor: Joe Abell 
Assistant Night Editor: Maria Gallagher. 
"Tape": John Abowd Extras: Jerry Lutkus, Butch Ward, Bill Sohn, Anthony Abowd, Dave Rust John Kloos ' Typists: Joe Wilkowski, Howard Halle Night Controller: Steve Roper 
And the graduating seniors we missed-before: Roger Burrell Fred Giuf· frida, Bob Higgins, Don Ruane, Carl Straub, rlan Thorton' and Harry Chung. Our apologies, guys. 
the observer Friday. May 4, 1973 
Griffin: Christianity lacking at ND 
by Bill Sobn Staff Reporter 

Delivering his official speech as Senior Class Fellow last night, Fr. Robert Griffin, C.S.C., criticised what he saw as a lack of Christianity at Notre Dame, and the failure of the whole University community to meet the situation. 
But Griffin concluded: "There is a vision of gold that shines above the campus; : there is a symbol of God's presence in the lamps of the church. It is out of reverence for the vision as glimp­sed, out of honor to the presence as felt, that the devotional and ligurgical life of the campus must be developed." 
Griffin, referring to the recent 
shake up in the office of student 
affairs, said that he distrusts 
bureaucracies, \ but feels the 
administration's motive is to make 
Notre Dame "a more decent 
human place to live." 
His disenchantment comes from 
his distrust of large committees to 
work effectively and his doubt that 
a Christian university can fulfill its 
religious commitment "by the 
mere act of requiring Christian 
discipline from its students." 
Griffin stated that Notre Dame's 
Catholicism does not rise or fall on 
the girl who does not return homE 
from a Saturday night date in the 
dorm. 
Griffin commented that a 
biologist who wishes to perfect the 
Summer storage 

Senior Class President Jim Hunt announced last ni~• that Summer Storage in the Fieldhouse would begin on Saturday, May 12 and would · last until Wednesday, May 16. Hours for students to bring things to be stored will be from 8:00a.m. to 5:00p.m. all five days. 
Small response to changeover 
(continued from page 2) 
near the beginning of February to "take an objective, honest look at the formats" that revealed that both WRBR-FM and WJVA-AM ranked lQw in popularity in South Bend. Researches into the matter produced suggestions from the marketing survey company that ranged from a change of staff to a change of format. 
In addition, the stations had experienced a "disappointing" financial year in 1972, further prompting a change to"a bit more successful format. The best solution -to these problems in the eyes of the Booth officials was to change the format of both stations, WRBR-FM from what many call "progressive rock" to a "Top 40 format," WJVA-AM from Top 40 to country and western. And unlike the original idea behind the "progressive rock" format, intended as an eight-month ex­periment, these new formats will remain in effect indefinitely." 
The response to the format was 
smaller than expected by the 
station. The initial impact was 
spread over the first four weeks of , 
the new formats, during which a 
number of petitions were 
distributed. But these petitions 
were ineffective in that most of the 
signers had not included addresses 
and telephone numbers. 
By far the best type of response 
came from signed letters. But the 
station received less than 250 of 
these letters: less than .l percent of 
the total listening area of 300,000. 
Since that initial four weeks, active 
protest has subsided substantially, 
according to station personnel. 
"The protest was ridiculous," 
one said, "especially in light of the 
fact that there are other stations, 
WNDU and WSBT for example, 
that both broadcast progressive 
rock after 10 o'clock." 
species might want to sterilize the at Notre Dame who teach that unfit while a Christian biologist "in · sexual restraints are unhealthy his reverence for life," would not. and unnecessary. Complete sexual He also commented on teachers freedom, he argued, "can end up in 



Prof Vacca receives 
1973 Sheedy A "Ward 
by David Rust Senior Reporter 
Robert Vacca, assistant professor of classics, is the recipient of this year's Sheedy Excellence in Teaching Award, announced Arts and Letters Dean Frederick Crosson last night. 
Vacca, who will receive his doctorate from the University of Chicago next month, is the first non-tenured professor to win the coveted five year old teaching award, which in­cludes a check for $1000 and is open to all Arts and Letters professors. 
Selection of Vacca was made by a special committee consisting of an equal number of students and faculty, and chaired by Dean Crosson. 
"Traditionally, the award is given for outstanding teaching performance, both inside and outside the classroom," said one committee member. 
Committee chairman Crosson said last night that this particular award included more than "recognition and acknowledgement of ability as a teacher. 
"There are two other things I'm particularly happy about," said Crosson. "This award recognizes Prof. Vacca's responsibility for the revitilization of classics at Notre Dame. It is also a nice tribute to the younger profs at Notre Dame. 
"It also symbolizes the fact 
that good teaching is 
recognized by students as well as profs," added the Arts and Letters dean. 
Vacca, a Milwaukee native, a 1962 graduate of Marquette University and on the faculty of Notre Dame since 1969, considered the fact that he was a non-tenured professor especially significant. 
"There is a large number of 
junior faculty who work very 
hard and who take verytheir
responsibilities seriously," said the award winner. "Since I have no idea what the (selection) com­mittee's particular criteria 
were, I can only figure that the 
award serves as recognition
for those junior faculty." Vaccareportedthathisfirst 


~;£~~~·£:::·~~~ ::: 

given to junior faculty before,, ..--..!•!::n:lllll::l:•::lll:l:lll=li:III=III:II=II:IH:III:I•:-:::=-==-=•===~~====:
and I wouldn't have ever1 expected it to go to me anyway." 
He was "personally very surprised and grateful," he said. "I consider this a stimulus to try and do better. I'm very happy that the junior faculty is recognized in this framework." 
The Spring, 1972 student Course Evaluation Book had high marks for Vacca in its comments on his course "Periclean Athens." 
"Mr. Vacca is an exciting and penetrating lecturer," said the book, "and he expects the student to devote as much time to the readings as he does." 


Dugan: Provost did not represent MtPposition 
(continued from page 1) 
or part time, who is eligible for tenure, and what salary discrepancies exist in comparison with male faculty. 
Dugan praised the com­mittee yesterday, by saying it has done a "remarkable job" thus far. He added that it is very misleading when the University says there are a certain number of women in the academic area, but not that the majority are not in teaching situations. "There is a great deal of work yet to be' done," he concluded. 
Committee Z on salaries and economics of the profession was critical of Notre Dame Report number 11, which commented favorably on the salaries and compensations of the Notre Dame faculty. The title of the report implied it to be the result of AAUP efforts. 
According to Dugan, only the first table was written by the AAUP, and the rest of the report was written by the Provost and "did not in any way represent the position of the AAUP." 
Regarding the report's contents, it was written that compensations amounted to more than seven percent. But according to Committee Z the University miscalculated because it used the wrong methods and the benefits actually amount to less than 
six percent.  
Committee  Z  also  con­ 
sidered  ways  to  get  more  
faculty  input  into  the  

budgetary process, and ac­cording to Dugan, "to specifically address the fact that if the faculty gets an increase in pay, then this means the University has a financial deficit and might be going under at any moment." 
The committee also felt more should be known about the budgetary process. 
The other reports were generally informative about the particular nature and efforts of each committee.: About·BO members of the 260: member ·association were inl attendance. Dugan attributed this to end of semester pressures and a lack of publicity, but he still con­sidered it a good turnout in spite of these factors. 


under 24 years old? FLY BOAC Youth Fare --good for 1 year! --fly to any European City • call Clark, 283-8810 
those tragic situations where pray for this campus that it may be human· beings exploit each other a place that all who attend here 
to the point of their own self may constantly be discovering the destruction." 
true identity so that all when they 

Griffin added that Christianity at graduate from here they may Notre Dame is the work not just of move with confidence to the task of the students and faculty but also serving the wworld as lovers," the administration. Griffin concluded. 
The Senior Fellow wondered why 
Special May mass

some of the university's support must come from the "building of a A special mass dedicated to the war machine" (i.e. R.O.T.C. Blessed Mother will be offered on scholarships), and its effect on Tuesday, May 8, at 5:15p.m. at the Notre Dame's Christianity. grotto, celebrated by Rev. Robert 
Griffin said that the students Griffin, C.S.C. should know that underlying all the According to Fr. Griffin, the research and teaching at Notre mass will be "in thanksgiving for Dame, there lies a concern for the God's kindness of the year; to ask suffering and illness in the world. God's blessings at exam time and 
"I pray for each of you in for the summer; and to honor Our awareness of what it means to be Blessed Mother in a May-time the sons and daughters of God. I devotion." 
~~-·IIIIIIIIIIDIII--1 

-IIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIDUIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIilli!_: 

§ Start yoBur uwelelkeand ost..h.ed§,_. 
= (Corner of Bulla and Juniper across == 
= )
~ from Grace Tower § ~ Mass and Dinner 
5:00. pm .IFriday 



Our turtle. It always finishes in front! 

This turtleneck shirt is machine washable banlon. Tops just about anything in white, black, lite blue, wine. Sizes S-M-L-XL 

JCPenney 
We kll4Jw what you're looking for. 
J C Penney~ ~ Bend, 

Open Daily 9:30 to 9:00 Saturday 'til 6:30, Sunday 12:30 to 5:30 






