--------------------~-~-------------------"""'! 


On The Inside 
Shootout at Jabbar house ... page 3 Messbarger discusses tenure ... page 6 
Vol. VII No. 62 
serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 


'Violations' 
•
1n error ,says 

Provost letter 
by Don Ruane Executive Editor 
Provost James T. Burtchaell in a letter dated Dec. 15, 1972. stated that many of the alleged violations of due process in the Lewis Hall parietal case are in error. either totally or in part. 
The letter was addressed to the rector of the hall in response to an eight point statement listing reasons for grave concern felt by hall residents. More than 50 per cent of all hall residents signed it. 
Other than to say the first six points regarded questions of fact and were in some degree erroneous, Fr. Burtchaell did not discuss the points any further because "these are not facts the administration is free to discuss." 
He asked the resident to "be: aware that distortion and misstatement are inevitable when members of a community presume on the basis of partisan presentation of an incident that they are indeed acquainted with an objective account of the facts." 
Briefly the statement's first six points were: 
-complaints of unorthodox behavior should be reported to the rector before an outside authority is contacted. 
-the security report was inaccurate, biased, and presum!.'d guilt before giving the woman a chance to speak. 
-the decision to expel was made soley on the report, without informing the woman of her rights, without consulting the woman or the rector, and without any defensive presentation. 
-the supposed violation was more directly against the dormitory than the University and should have remained such an issue. Therefore the outcome was unjust and arbitrary, and should be appealed probably through the Advanced Students Committee. 
-the residents' notion of due process is taken from the AAUP Student Disciplinary Guidelines and the current student manual which specify minimal rights to which they are entitled. Those rights were violated in this case. 
-the still unspecified violation was given ex post facto treatment. 
The last two points claim the punishment "unduly disproportionate to the situation," and that the Universitv has "fractured its own ideals of humaneness and charity" as described in the preamble to the disciplinary code (Student Manual, p. 25). 
Fr. Burtchaell. author of the preamble, said he was "indeed persuaded" they were preserved in the proceedings "to which many students are taking ex­ception. but with which none are adequately familiar." 
The Provost also declined an inviatation by hall resident made Dec. 10, to visit the hall some evening before Dec. 15 to discuss the case. Vice President for Advanced Studies Dr. Robert Gordon, who made the original decision to expel, was included in the in­vitation. 
The Provost declined noting University policy requiring confidentiality in all disciplinary cases. 
Although the resident had difficulty delivering the invitation to Fr. Burtchaell, they spoke with Gordon before Dec. 15. Gordon agreed to relay the invitation, and the response, according to Recor Sr. Theresa Sandok. was that Fr. Burtchaell could not meet with them until after the holidays. No mention of the post holiday meeting was made in the letter. 
Residents of Lewis Hall met several times to get information on the case. The first meeting drew 75 of 125 residents. but attendance at subsequent meeting dwindled. 
Farley and BP react 
in .more than one vvay 
Special feature on page 5 
Friday, January 19, 1973 

Parietals talks held by student committee 
by Mike Charles Staff Reporter 

The Advanced Student Affairs Com­mittee held an open meeting last night in Lewis Hall to discuss the new parietals set bv Dr. Hobert Gordon for Lewis Hall. The new parietals were stimulated by the recent withdrawal of a Lewis Hall resident due to her violation of parietals. 
The general feeling expressed at the nweting was that some systematic form of handling graduate violations should be devised. 
The members of the Advanced Student Mfairs Committee were Barry Wessels, Tony Polumbo, Michael Parott, Baha Zarak. Mark Ratkus and Finian Taylor. Sr. Theresa Sandok, Lewis Hall rector, and a few hall residents were also present at the meeting. 
During the discussion the Lewis Hall residents present expressed their displeasure with the new parietals. hey are now similar to the undergraduate parietals: noon to midnight during the week and noon-2 a.m. on the weekends. 
As a whole the committee agreed that the graduate students should be allowed to regulate their own rules. 
The major point made during the meeting was the necessity of a specified procedure when a regulation was violated. After some thorough discussion the general mechanism was something like this: 
The case could be taken to either an appointed student body or a singularly, designated person upon the discretion of the violator. If necessary, a fact-finding committee could be created. Also, the power of review would rest with some appointed administrative official. 
This outline is only tentative and speculative. Specific details may be worked out later. 
The meeting also covered the proposed rights of the violatee. 
--Presumption of innocence. 
--Right to council of choice. 
--Right to confront accuser. 
--Right of due process. 
--Freedom from intimidation. 
--Proportional punishment to violation. 
--Right to remain silent. 
--Public proceedings upon demand. 
--Reversal by any reviewing authority in writing. --Civil actions must be finalized before university can proceed. 
--"Eminent danger to University community" refers only to physical violence. 
--Punishment for only offences which are enumerated in writing. --Voirdire right against members of a hearing board. --Punishment will be suspended until 
after the final review of the case. 
--Right to speedy proceedings. 
--No action which is listed as a punish­

ment will be imposed upon a student prior to judicial proceedings. · 
The Advanced Student Affairs Com­mittee plans to present these items and their procedural process of violators to Dr. Gordon. 
Notes seven procedure violations 

Faculty leader backs Lewis grad student 
by Don Ruane Executive Editor 
A faculty leader. at the request of the woman involved in the Lewis Hall parietal case, spoke with Provost James T. Burtchaell, after the woman had voluntarily with­drawn. in the hopes that the judicial process used might be reviewed and a hearing be con­ducted. 
During the conversation, the leader noted seven points con­sidered violations of due process and five conclusions reached by him and several other faculty leaders after reviewing the woman's version of the case. 
The leader. Prof. Paul Rathburn who is also president of the local chapter of the American Association of University Professors (AAUPl, said last night that the Provost was wise to give the woman the chance to with­draw. although he upheld the decision that she must leave the University. 
If the woman had been expelled, she would have lost her educational visa, and would have been forced to return to Europe. Also, it would have made it almost impossible for her to enter the United States in the future. 
The faculty leaders concluded that the due process was violated, and that the punishment was still unreasonably harsh. Rathburn orally noted the conclusions and the seven violations, which were: Police in the hall without precedent. the rector was not consulted. and the authority of the housemother who took police to the 
room is questioned. 

Security did not properly 
identify themselves. 

Security failed to inform the woman of her rights concerning self incrimination and the seriousness of the complaint. 
Securitv ev.icted the man on the 
basis nf an anonyt:IOUS phone call. 
SP< ... · 111. ;midatf'd the woman. 
Security filed a fallacious report. The administration used 
1
security without precedent, and provided no chance for an im­partifll hearing. 
Hathburn agreed with the Provost that he may have been misled by the woman's report, but emphasized that he was asking only for a review of the process and decision. because of the lack of precedent in parietal cases (no male student has withdrawn or been expelled for a similar violation> and mitigating cir­cumstances such as the alleged clumsiness of security and adverse publicity. 
It is reported that the contents of the security report are well known throughout certain parts of the administration. Fr. Burtchaell was not available for comment for the second day. 
The conclusions informally reached by the ~roup are: the spirit of the regulations is uncertain. the woman deserves a hearing because of the lack of due process. 
The hearing should be held quickly and privately in ac­cordance with AAUP guidelines. 
The hearing should concern lack 

l 
of due process and the punishment. 
Until the hearing is completed, the woman's student status should not be altered. 
"It seems to me she had a right to that much," Rathburn said. 
The woman contacted Rathburn because of his connection with the AAUP. He listened to her version and agreed to speak with the 
Provost. Although he consulted with other members of the local AAUP executive council, his action did not represent the AAUP and no official AAUP investigation was jconducted. 
Rathburn said last night that the AAUP will assist students when their academic rights have been 

l
violated, but it is not a common AAlJP practice. 

1 
l 

1 
I 

r----------------­2 
the observer Friday, January 19, 1973 
, ~
, 
, 
warld
f 

briefs 
(C) 1973 New York Times 


Drama 
The cooperative Notre Dame­Saint Mary's College Speech and Drama Department will sponsor two high school girls for a two \\'Pek campus residency program, from Saturday, January 20 through Saturday. February 3, 1!173. 
This program. "Project Real", is in association with the Beaumont School for Girls, CIPveland llt'ights. Ohio. 
Thl' two visiting students, Ann l'areioppolo and Ann Fissinger. will work essentially on the proctuction of After the> Rain, opens Fdm~ary 16. 1973 in Washington llall. University of Notre Dame. 
"Project !{Pal" is designed to help hriogp the gap bt'tween theories of tlw elassroom and practical ap­plication. The program helps to l'larify the studenrs personal interPsls and vocational ob­jPl'lives. 
It is the belief of this project that through ctirect experience students can most effectively learn about the various professions and the 
r n•sponsibilities of the people in­
r 
\'olved in them. 
~ Under the supervision of Mr. Fred Syburg, instructor in the eooperative Speech and Drama llepartmPnt. with the aid of thet entire department. each girl will r work on crews. attend theatre r classes. and generally involve
, 
~ 
lwrself in the program. applying tlw skills and knowledge she has learned in school. 
In actdition. each student is rPquired to keep a journal of her dail~· activities. The experience is PXJl('l'ted to broaden her per­:-<pPcth·e as well as heighten her awareness of Ihe relationship lll'!II'!'Pn the individual and the l'ommunitv. 
An evaltmlion and summary, as IIPII as the .journal. arc submitted hy tlw student at the project's Paris--The United States and North Vietnam announced Wednesday that they would resume their private peace talks in Paris next Tuesday •for the purpose of completing the text of an agreement." 
Administration spokesmen refused to elaborate on the joint statement 
beyond saying that the agreement has the "objective of stopping the fighting. ending the war and restoring peace." The announcement marked the first time the United States has acknowledged the ~xistence of a draft agreement. 
Washington--Senators Barry Goldwater and John C. Stennis, two of the Senate's strongest supporters of the Thieu government, warned that it would lose United States support if President Thieu blocked a peace settlement. To some colleagues their strongly worded statement indicated that President Thieu was presenting difficulties. 
Fairfield. Calif.--Juan V. Corona was found guilty of murdering 25 migrant farm workers whose bodies were discovered buried near YuvaCity, Calif. in 1971. The jury had d.eliberated for a week before finding Corona, a farm labor contractor, guilty of the murderers. 
New York--The Metropolitan Museum has quietly downgraded about :lOO paintings formerly attributed to masters and attributed them to lesser artists. The reattribution involves some of the museum's most famous works formerly accredited to such giants as Hembrandt. Raphael. Durer. Van Eyck, El Greco, Rubens and Goya. 

on campu• taday 
fri. R:OO p.m. --movie, klute, eng. aud. 
sat. I ::lO p.m.--basketball, nd vs. dayton, ace 
R & 10 p.m.--movie. to have and have not, cinema '73. eng. aud. 
sun. R & 10 p.m.--movie, to have and have not, cinema '73, eng. aud. 
at nd-smc 



dept. sponsors internship 
eonclusion. The evaluation and summary report states specifically what she has learned about the profession or the research in which she was in­volved. It also describes the ex­tent to which she has been in­fluenced by the experience and what effect it could have on her future directions. 
ND gets AEC grants 

The Hadiation Laboratory on the University of Notre Dame campus has rpceived two grants totaling $1.222,000 from the U.S. Atomic Erwrgy Commission as its annual support to continue research on the !'!'feels of radiation on matter. 
Directed by Dr. John L. Magee. the laboratory is part of a system of AEC researt'h centers seeking the basic knowledge necessary to support development of a civilian­controlled atomic energy capability. The modern research facility involves over 30 faculty from several University depart­nH•nts. 20 post-doctorals, 12 graduate students and a non­academic staff of about 45 people. 
Scientists in the laboratory are primarily interested in learning more about the electron--the fundamental particle of l'iectririty which is put to work in electric lights and television sets. Knowledge of the nature and behavior of the electron is also important to an understanding of 
The Observer is published daily 
during the college semester ex­
cept vacations by the students of 
the l'niversity of Notre Dame and 
St. Mary's College. Subscriptions 
may be purchesed for $8 per 
semester ( 14 per year) from the 
Observer, lox Q, Notre Dame, 
Indiana 46556. Second class 
postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 

ADOOZEY, HALLELUJ~! 
/Matjoe is l.Joth electrifying pop art and savage sociology. A I
, razzle-dazzle feature. 
I 

1 One oi tile most exiraonlinary and com~elling non-fiction 
ov1ts ever made.

r 
ve over Mick Jagger. · 
---.----------·----------~ 

how radiation affects both living and non-living materials. 
Honors club formed 
Under the sponsorship of the philosophy department an under­graduate philosophy honot·s society is being formed at Notre Dame. It will provide a forum for those under-graduates who have rlemonstrated exceptional ability and interest in philosophical issues. 
Nominations for membership will be made by philosophy professors and also professors of philosophy-related courses in other ctepartments. 
The faculty advisor of the society will be Dr. Gary Gutting of the Philosophy Department. The selection board will consist of !lr.Gutting. Dr. McKim. Dr. Bn•nnan. Dr. Evans. Dr. Loux, Dr. 1\loore and Dr. Roos. 
The society will ordinarily hold thn•e pubiic meetings' per sem(•ster the focus of which will be a talk or discussion on a philosophical topic by one of our own faculty or an outside lecturer. These me'etings will provide an occasion for philosophical dialogue among the undergraduates in different departments with a common interest in philosophy. 


WRBR 
presents 
s3oo in advance s350 
at the door 
ah 
11~~~ 
8PM FRiDA.Y . JANUARY 26th 
Jf~~...... 
TICKETS AVAILABLE AT... AUDITORIUM BOX OFFICE 12­5 PM DAILY-.. PANDORA's BOOK 5TORE 

AND PLAIN CHAPS 
We want EVERYONE to enjoy steak! 
Western Cut Dinner 
SJ89 





PONDEROSA 

STEAK HOUSE 
52627 U.S. 31 N. and Town & Country Shopping Ctr. 

'One Day in the Life of a Siberian labor camp prisoner during the Stalin Regime.' 

.. ' 

Friday January 19 and Saturday January 20 
~, 8, 1 Opm and 12 midnight 
. ---------------­
I If f •• 
, , . 
, -, .. ' 



Friday, January 19, 1973 the observer 
3 

Urban Studies initiated at SMC 
21 andover. 
Eight killed in ]abbar-owned house 
(C) 1973 New York Times 
Washington, Jan 18--Three adults and five children were reported killed late today in a shooting and drowning at a home Washington police said was owned bv Kareem Abdul Jabbar the professional basketball star. 
.Jabbar. who was in Milwaukee with his team the Milwaukee Bucks at the time of the shooting told a Washington Radio station that the home was for the use of the eommunity and said that it was a l\1uslim community. 
The police said the three adults 
were shot to death and three 
ehildren were found drowned in a 
bathtub. Two women were 
reported to be hospitalized. 
There was no immediate ex­
planation of the circumstances of 
the deaths and identities of the 
Poinsatte (chairman. history 
An urban studies program co­department), the program was sponsored by the history, t-stablished out of the "overriding economics-business. sociology, domestic concern of Americans in and political science departments the 1970's whether or not our nation of Saint Mary's joins the list of ean arrive at a truly human en­interdisciplinary programs being vironment for urban living." offered at the college next By enlisting the joint efforts of semester. the humanities and the social 
Aecording to co-directors Louis sciences in studying the urban 
H. Tondreau (chairman. Political problem at both the local and ~eience departmentl and Charles national level, the program will 
SLC plans discussion on black students' problems 
by Janet Longfellow Staff Reporter 
The Student Life Council plans committee meetings for January 
:.!2 and 29 to prepare  for the next  
hearing  sessions  on  February  5  
and 12.  

The discussion topic. "Black Students at Notre Dame," resulted from a racial disturbance in Stanford Hall last semester. Through talks with Notre Dame black students. members of the SLC have acknowledged a need for an opportunity for them to voice their feelings about being black on a predominantly white campus. 
Dr. Robert Ackerman. chairman of the Steering Committee, is setting up the hearing session to "provide a forum for sharing victims were not immediately known. A neighbor at the scene said that immediately after the shooting occurred at 5:30P.M., a young woman came out on the front steps and said: 
"l know who they are and they are going to pay for it." 
According to sketchy accounts from the police a .38-caliber pistol was found at the scene. Neighbors reported seeing four men running from the house after the shooting. 
The house. a three story brick mansion, was on a tranquil corner of upper 16th street at Jonquil Street in the district of Columbia not far from the Maryland border. 
The neighborhood is referred to as the "Gold Coast." It is racially mixed and consists of large homes and a few embassies. 
Neighbors said the house had been 
used as a headquarters for s sect of 
experiences on what it is like to be black." When asked his opinion on this as a topic for discussion. he said, "I 
have  no  reason not  to  be  op­ 
timistic."  
Out  of  a  meeting  with  black  

students before the hearing, the SLC hopes to find what they wish to discuss. what kind of problems they have. and what they feel is necessary to change. 
This will be this year's second SLC hearing. The first occured before Thanksgiving vacation to discuss Room Picks. SLC mem­bers expressed hope yesterda~ that the attendenceand enthusiastic rapport of the last hearing will indicate success for the corning session. 
"Craig Kapson" or Lois Tranter 
Jordan Motors 
259-19 
the Muslims. Habiba and Daughter (also named 
In his telephone interview with Habiba) were with him in the radio station Jabbar. formerly Milwaukee. Lew Alcindor. confirmed that the Jabbar's father, Ferdinand house was his. 
Lewis Alcindor said from his home Asked if he knew why the in Queens' that the basketball star shooting had occurred Jabbar 
had donated the Washington home replied. "Lunatics, that's the only 
to the Muslims at the time he explanation." became a member. 
He added. "It's my community and the home is for the use of the community." 
)07 ~ MI(H 51 
• • 111·7100• •
Asked ir'he thought the shooting 
might be the result of a feud in­\'oiving the Muslims he said, "No. 

LAST CHANCE TO SEE IT ON BIG SCREENI can only suspect lunatics." 
UNCUTI!-MAT. SAT. & SUN. 1:30 4:45
Wayne Embry the General 1\lanager of the Bucks said Jabbar told him he no longer owned the house. Embry added that he discussed the matter with Jabbar's attorney who said Jabbar had dona ted the house to the black Muslims. Jabbar said his wife 


aim toward an increased un­derstanding on the student's part of the diverse factors which have shaped the urban environment. Urban life will be viewed from the vantage point of a variety of academic disciplines, particularly political science, history, economics. and sociology. 
Students who wish to complete the program must meet the following requirements: 
--the satisfactory completion of a major course of study in one of the academic disciplines at Saint 1\larv's. 
--the satisfactory completion of four courses 02 credit hours) in at least two of the four participating departments. 
Courses in urban economics, urban sociology, and urban history will be among the eight offered in the program. as well as two research and internship programs in government. 
Students who fulfill the 
requirements will receive a cer­
tificate in urban studies which will 
be recorded on the college tran­
script. 
Interested students may contact 
Tondreau or Poinsatte for ad­
ditional information. 

on a fine selection of quality apparel 
Bike Stuff... values to $15 ... $9.90 
Jackets-CPO'S .. save as much as 1h Sub Coats ... many styles .. % V2 oneSwea ters-Shirts ... reg. $22...$11.90 
third ' ' Shirts-Tops ... values to $22... 1h0ff Sport Coats ... good selection... one Shirts.. cut 'n sewn styles ... 2 for $9 third, 1.4
Flannel Shirts... reg. $6...$4.50 
Suits ... 2 pant, doubleknkts ... I.40ff Sweaters...large group $14 values 
$9.90 ' ... 
•••••AND MORE 

PAY NEXT SUMMER 
Pay one third in June, one third in July, one third in August with no service or carrying charge. What could be easier? 

ON THE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAME 


Savings Event! 
Savings at 




Cinema '73 
presents 


'To Have and Have Not' 
Sat. &Sun. Jan. 20th & 21st 8 & 1Opm Engineering Aud. Admission s 1 Patrons Free I 
REGAL NOTES 
UNDERSTAND PLAYS, NOVELS AND POEMS FASTER WITH OUR NOTES We're new and we're the bigest! Thousands of topics reviewed for quicker understanding. Our subjects include not only English, but Anthro­pology, Art, Black Studies, Ecology, Eco­nomics, Education, History, Law, Music, Philosophy, Political Science, Psychology, Rei igion, Science, Sociology and Urban Prob­
lems.  Send $2 for  your catalog o(topics avail­ 
able.  
REGAL  NOTES  
3160  "0" Street,  N. W.  
Washington,  D. C. 20007  
Telephone:  202-333-0201  




Mid-Winter 
Part-flme Help 1300 per Month 
Scholarships Available 
Inter~iews today at 2,3, and 4 
p.m. m 2-C Lafortune 
STARTS ONE 
TONIGHTW~EK!
8.00 P.M. 








f--­
Well. our crack Security Chief has finally put himself in contention for the Bummer-of-the-Year award, presented whenever ne(·essar~ by the Philadelphia Boobirds Association, Inc. In fact, it is my humble 

r 
contention that the man, with invaluable support from a University' Vice-President. may even merit some sort of medal.
Daze of Our Lives 
THE OBSERVER 
Ciardian Knal: 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
On Lewis Hall 

John Abowd 0.:'1 Thornton Editor-In-Chief Business M.nager
NEWS: 283-1715 EDITORIALS: 283-8661 BUSINESS: 283-7471 

Joe Butler Executive Editor Ad~tertising M.Nger Ed Elli•
Don Ruane 

Friday, January 19, 1973 
r r 
~ The recent incident at Lewis Hall reads r like a script for Days of Our Lives or As r the World Turns --a vicious scandal that 
r 
others will hear about and wonder, yet 
~ won't relate to themselves. It's like a work of hack fiction that no one will really take seriously.
~ 
One person has to take it seriously, for it will be a mark on her record for the rest of her life. But one thing that won't show on her
f 
r record is the mockery of justice that led to her withdrawal from the University. 
r This mockery, which includes questionable actions of a security chief who has perhaps outlived his efficiency and blind groping of administration of­ficials for a decision in an unprecedented case, will instead remain on the record of the University itself, a University whose officials hide behind "policy" to avoid publicity. 
The Peter Principle 

One of the two most blaring issues in the case is the direction the Security Department handled its end of the case. From the very start, its actions, which were personally handled by Director Pears, were not only highly questionable, but almost embarassing for a university of Notre Dame's stature. 
Acting rashly on an anonymour phone call (one wonders what Security would do in a flood of such calls), Pears failed to recognize any of the woman's rights through his failure to identify himself, state her rights, tell her if she was ac­tually under arrest, notify her rector, or 
r 
show her his report. He then heaped
r 
insult on the woman by intimidating her 
r 
with another, earlier charge, suggesting
r 
moral turpitude that was unsupported by
r 
evidence, and actually insulting her to
r 
r her face. The point of the matter is: perhaps Pears has finally overreached his authority and efficiency. In other words, his Peter Principle hit just prior to this case, leaving him not quite competent enough to keep up with an ever-quicker changing college society. Perhaps it is time for the University to begin looking for a younger security chief, one whose outrage won't overrule his sense of duty. 
Law and the University 
The second, and perhaps more im­portant, aspect of the case involves a good deal of bureaucracy and a good lack of thought: the process by which the woman found herself on the outskirts of duLac. The lack of due procedure which is the backbone of American life was missing. There was no trial, no defense, no real appeal; merely accusations (many of which were false, according to 
r 
daanesbury 
. 

:;: 1"HINK THIS I JJotl'r IIIV'OtV HOtiJ R.t:JI"" SNOW .t:JIV'f) posr?1t'N CA.N PO 5Ui&T 8()5/NeSS IS THIS P?t-Yc.AR 
~ ROliND. .:C 'Ve ONt..Y
1 RIV'/Jt-L.-Y 6&TTIIVG TO 
• 8&£3N 17T IT ONe 
, 11g, .rWfJNT 

.. · our; WE&/\ PNP .I'H 
d 0 e.XH.t:JtJSTe"P.' 
(> 
((. q 
0 

the woman) and a pronouncement of 
guilt. 

Granted, punishment of permission to 
withdraw is much better than outright 
expulsion, but total removal from the 
University was entirely too harsh. 
Banishment to off-campus living would 
have been much more appropriate and 
fairer. At least Fr. Hesburgh made a 
partial attempt of apology by his sym­
pathy and letter of recommendation. 
Why We're Here 
Both issues raise the ultimate question 
of the amount of control the University 
should have over its students. Some 
control is necessary, of course, for the 
University is responsible for most 
students. But one wonders. Students are 
paying for education, not morals. The 
argument that the University is 
responsible for the total student therefore 
cannot reach into this area, especially in 
the case of students who are legally 
adults, such as the woman involved here. 
In this type of case, where does in loco 
parentis end? 

The University cannot condone these 
incidents. Modern society has yet to 
reach thatlevel. But to so totally condemn 
such actions is, on the other hand, a 
regression. The University cannot allow 
itself to go backwards; that's the best 
way to trip over its own feet. 
Joseph Abell 



Second Semester at the Movies 
Remember the famous "wrenched 
connection" of last year? Well, Saint 
Mary's has just directed and produced 
another big one: Shaft. 
In the coex confusion, SMC freshmen 
were not permitted to register for classes 
across the road unless they agreed to pay 
the exorbitant $100 per credit hour fee. 
Which is fine--providing you've just won 
the Jersey State Lottery. (Who was it 
that said education is "priceless"?) 
Now for the sequel: Shaft's Big Score. 
Those SMC frosh who considered price no 
object now don't have to pay the coex fee 
since only 1700 of the 3000 allotted credit 
hours are being utilized by Saint Mary's. 
How nice. But not for freshmen who 
really wanted a Notre Dame course last 
December and couldn't pay for it. It's too 
late to add one now. 
The rich grow academically richer, 
and the poor ... well, I won't say it. But 
know what underprivileged means? 
Maria Gallagher 
Think about it for a minute, or less, if possible. Arthur N. Pears, in one grandstand flourish of his fuzz badge, a) rid the campus of The l<'rench Menace. an insidious Protestant-Communist plot residing within the very shadow of the Dome, b) produced an official report of such lurid literary quality that, when produced on film, it will doub­tless challenge "Deep Throat" and "Vixen" for longest-run honors, and cl showed himself to be a typical Notre Dame administrator, which is to say that he and the other folks over at the Dome have about as much sensitivity as an icy granite toilet seat. 
Such a Triple Crown is no mean feat here in this land of mediocrity, and certainly deserves such recognition as the Bummer-of-the-Year award. However. we are shortchanging ourselves, I suspect, if we limit ourselves to a few sarcastic commentaries on L'Affaire de Lewis Hall like the above. Which is not to suggest that we multiply sarcastic eommentaries. but rather that we allow our minds to absorb the finer points of what happened. 
!<'irst of all. the image of Art Pears as Gestapo chieftain is no doubt rampant among those who read the Obsc>rvc>r's front-page story ~·esterday. Many students will also recognize the event as a chapter from Orwell's 1984. in which the protagonist and his paramour by a combination of telescreen and Thought Police are taken, scantily dothed. to their respective demises. 
But really now, Art Pears is not a very Orwellian type. He could never head the Thought Police. He's much more the redneck grand­father. The truly humorous image in the story is that of the kindly and grandfatherly Pears drooling outside the poor girl's room as he prepares to make the first really big pinch of his career. 
But there are more. Note the scholarly Dr. Robert Gordon, looking and sounding for all the world like John Connolly, but behaving like a third-rate Larry Zeigler no-commenting his way through his first press conference. A surprising performance for a man so experienced and distinguished as Dr. Gordon. 
WP eannot. unfortunately, exclude the Provost from our list of out­standing performers in this matter. Fr. Burtchaell must realize that 
more people on this campus shack up or have at one point shacked up than regularly attend church services <which says more, I suspect, for Notre Dame's Catholicism than it does for its social life). In any case, why did he choose to play Big Brother in none but this instance, l'Specially when the vietim was so obviously unfit to tangle with the Provost's wit and charm? 
It is very strange indeed, especially since it comes amid rumors of one of those booze-broads-dope crackdowns that never seem to materialize. Rumors are also current to the effect that the Ad­ministration's incredible lack of finesse has left them open to a lawsuit by the Mademoiselle, a rumor which perhaps Mr. Faccenda can handle far better than either I or my colleagues. 
Pt>rhaps the most disturbing point of the whole episode is the official silence that has prevailed on the subject. Now few of us would argue that the private affairs of a young woman are the legitimate concern of the campus at large. But when this young lady has been so blatantly been denied any sort of due process in the matter, when her own in­telligence and that of the student body in general has been insulted by goon squad tactics. and when legitimate graduate school regulations are ignored by those who made them, then perhaps we are l'ntitled to an explanation, despite some minor embarrassment to an individual in her position. 
Somebody in our Administration has apparently behaved somewhat llke-an ass. Recriminations are of course unnecessary, but we ought at least to find out what really happened at The Great Panty Raid, and we should take steps to insure the future of human dignity at this school. 
But then. if we can accept past performance as any sort of barometer of the future. we shall be forced to await the grand premiere of the Pears movie. "The Night She Gave Him Her Body." 

111arry trudeau 
the observer 
Managing Editor: Joe Abell News Editor: Anthony Abowd St. Mary's Editor: Maria Gallagher Editorial Editor: Jerry Lutkus Features Editor: Rod Braye Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson Associate Editors: Bob Higgins, Ed Ellis 
Special Projects Editor: Dan Barrett Asst. Ad Manager: Patti Stobel Business Secretary: Ceil Popovich Subscriptions Manager: Art Ferranti Production Manager: Joe Wilkowski Circulation: John Woods 
Night Editor: Joe Abell 
Ass'! Night Editor: Maria Gallagher Layout: Marlene Zloza Day Editor: Bill Sohn Pictureman: Jerome Phillips Night Controller: Harry Chung Typists: Dave Rust. Howard Halle, Diane Cherm· 
side 
Editorials printed in The Observer reflect the opinion of the writer on behalf of the editorial board. Columns re~lect the opin.ion of the lndlvldy<ll writer; lr'ley are not to be taken as editorial comment. 

----~ ----------, 
Friday, January 19, 1973 the observer 
5 





anJ> j~male tOishing 
to 111{.1t)Q ill 1\<)LO ~\nd try J~ldey on j(.1r s\z~ ... pllh\Se (1pply tt}i rbin for CO ·OC<'ll(J,\ llC ~ inform,,_tio11 

one good dorm · ~ tound, 

ple,lse (.',lll 
anyone •Ln 
13J~e"' 1> •L\hilips 


Doorway art 
Announcement of next year's dormatory selections for co-education brought forth many different reactions from the residents of Breen-Philips and Farley. Some were verbal-and highly ex­pressive-others took the form of posted notices. as you can see. 

I ~ 
December 1519 72 1110 

tbis ~he(!ll­was returned unendorsed... 
we have ~usted our last rt'(!ourse 


Conception and realization: Joseph and Barbara Abell Writers: The residents of Farley and Breen-Philips 
............................· ..... 
[0S1 
onr ~orm · answ£rs to 

Pop Farlrtfs 
if fl,Un~, plrnsJ? 

rrt11rn to tl]i" 
Uort~ Otto~ (along ttJitij ottr .pri~£1 

the observer Friday, January, 19, 1973 
Messbarger: 'Procedures not followed' 
Tenure controversy draws AAUP 
by Mary Janca Staff Reporter 

Dr. Paul Messbarger, Saint Mary's professor of English, whose appeal for tenure was refused earlier this school year, is now seeking the intervention of the Aml•rican Association of llniv<>rsity Professors (AAUPl. 
"Both I and the local chapter \\'l'r£' all along reluctant to involve any parties outside the college, and \\'P had done all we could to seek a review and a reversal," 1\IPssbarger stated. 
I\1Pssbarger was contacted before Christmas by AAUP official Dr . .Jordan Kurland, who said that lw had been through all the materials. offered his assistance, and thought that there were suf­ficient grounds to involve the national office. 
"By th<> time he called," said !Vh>ssbarger. "I had given up hope of anv kind of internal resolution." 
Kurland has since sent a letter to Dr. Edward Henry, President, stating that he wiii "inform us of his actions." added Messbarger. 
M<>ssbarger said that he could rind no reason why he was not granted tenure. 
"The criteria for tenure that's published in our faculty manuals lists such things as teaching eompetency, scholarship, and service to the community. And on all three scores, I was clean. 
"My department gave me the highest recommendation. I had just published a book, and I had been nominated by the college last spring to receive an award from the National Endowment for the Humanities. which I subsequently won ... I was promoted last spring and I did a fairly decent job in the dassroom. plus I chaired the 
English  Department  for  three  
years."  
lie  eontends  that  the  tenure  

procedure needs reforms, and feels that "There will be some changes. partly because of this experience.'' 
Currently, the Rank and Tenure Committee. composed of three faculty and two administration members. reviews each candidate eligible for tenure and forwards their recommendation to the president. He in turn can either accept or reject their proposal. 
However, the candidate has "no way of knowing who decided, and it's a terribly closed circuit. 

ND Student Union joins national organization 
by Dean Mayors Staff Reporter 

Thl' University of Notre Dame has joined th.e Association of Coll<>gP Unions · International, aecording to Dr. Hobert Ackerman, llirPl'tor of the Office of Student At'!ivities. 
Tlw ACli-J consists of ap­proximat<>ly !!00 schools in the llnited States. Canada. and Australia. Its primary purpos<>. according to Ackerman. is to improve the services which a stud<>nt union can provide to t·olll'gl' students. He added that tlw organization consequently Sl'rvPs as a clearinghouse for in­formation on student unions. 
Ackl•rman commented, "The ,\Cll·l will serve as a source of id<>as from other colleges. Through its committees we can find out how other colleges keep tlwir students entertained." 
Tlw :\<'l'-1 headquartered in Stanford. California and sponsors an annual international conference as wl'll as several regional con­fl'r<>nces. It specializes in seminars and training programs in college union operations and 
That's what the PauUsts are aU about. 
For more information write: Father Donald C. Campbell, 
Room 103. 


Paulist Fathers. 
415 West 50th Street · New York. N.Y. 10019. 
coordinates such activities as tournaments in bowling, billiards, bridge. and chess. 
The charter of the ACU-1 states that the student center should be the "living room" of the college. providing "services and con­\'Pniences that the members of the collegp family need in their daily life on the campus." According to Dr. Ackerman. such "services" can be implemented at Notre DamP through membership in the ACU-I because "the ACU-1 can lwlp in the dt>signing. building. or remodeling of the student center." 
Some colleges, according to Jay .I Kane. Assistant Director of the Department of Information Ser­\'ices. have student unions which contain student bars and have facilities for movies and dances. "Notre Dame can learn how to make such ideas a reality through the ACU-1." Kane commented. 
Dr. Ackerman stressed the two­way nature of the ACU-1. "While \1 e will at first receive many ideas from associate members of the ACU-1. we hope to someday reach the point where we will be able to channel information back into the organization," he commented. 
Sharing the the laughter 
the problems 
the success and failures 
knowing that where there is human need in the cities, the suburbs, in parishes, 
hm campus 
the Paulist is there helping 
counseling rejoicing in the presence of the good and in the signs of hope around us 

There's no way to penetrate it to find out reasons, to get at the evidence, or even know who made the main decision," he stated. 
"The AAUP is on record for calling for major reform of that system." Messbarger continued. 
"I raised questions about the tenure decision and asked for a review. not because I'd been turned down and not because the procedures themselves had been 

bad.  but  because  they  were  not  
followed," he explained.  
Following  the  break-off of  the  

mPrger. the Rank and Tenure Committee immediately began setting up their appointments with l'very department and holding hearings, began Messbarger. 
"AI the time. the Saint Mary's Board met and said 'We are not going to issue any promotions or tenure for a year, and those people who were to be considered for tenure will have to be let go,' " he said. 
Despite this decision, the committee continued its hearings and reviews. Consequently MPssbarger. in a letter to the president. requested that those faculty members who were reviewed and were to be let go be sent out with a letter of recom­mendation stating that "they had stood the review favorably." This, Messbarger continued, would assure them of a new employer. ployer. 
The issue was renewed before the Board by college president Sr. Alma Peter when they met again. 
'3he wrote back and said, 'I'm sorry to tell you that the moratorium has been sustained ... , but we are able to meet your other recommPndations. Those people who were favorably reviewed by the Rank and Tenure Committee will be so notified,' " Messbarger recalled. 
Certain facultv members rPceived letters. he continued, stating their credentials indicated that their case should be reviewed in the fall. Not getting the response he had requested, Messbarger proceeded to write another letter. At the lime. however, Dr. Henry 

Enioy them .... 
became president, and respon­sibility for granting tenure was his. 
Messbarger did not consider his job to be in any danger, and had thought that "if you got one of those letters. that meant that the moratorium was lifted and you had tenure." 
However. this was not true, and 1\!Pssbarger was denied tenure. 
"By the time you've been at an institution for seven years you must be judged for tenure if you wish to remain.'' he explained. Those who do not wish to be reviewed must leave. As he was not granted tenure. Dr. Messbarger also will not return to SMC, yet he said that he still does not know where he will go. 

WELCOME BACK TO SOUTH BEND from 
THE ROMA 
Your host Frank Anastasio 

"Wl•'ll make you a pizza you l'an"t refuse" 
*DELICIOUS 
ITALIAN FOOD *PIZZA *LIQUOR 

Dancing to the sophisticated jazz-rock sounds of Bill Nicks Trio Open until 4:00 a.m. on 
weekends 
For DELIVERIES 
CALL 234-3258 
211 N. Michigan Ave. 
Downtown South Bend 
tNext to Morris Civic> 




MAIN CHURCH SUNDAY MASSES 
5:15 p.m. Sat. Fr. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 
9:30 a.m. Sun. Fr. Eugene Montoya, C.S.C. 
10:45 a.m. Sun. Fr. Stephen Malkiewitz. O.F.M. 
12:15 p.m. Sun. Fr. William Toohey, C.sS.C. 

l 
"Evening Prayer" vespers at 4:30p.m. Sunday. Confessions are heard before each weekday mass and from 7'00 to 7:30p.m. Monday through Saturday. 
HOUIIS: 
MON -TUES -T~ -Fll 
9 AM .5:30PM Wm • SAT 9 AM 12 NOON 
COMPLETE ~BCTACLE 
SERVICE 
ALL I.'\ E OR.'S ~RfSCRirTIONS HONOIEI: 




RoGERS 
Cal!


Optical 

189-7809 
HAGGAR 
Doubleknit 

SLACKS 
FROM $14 
Nobody knows what Haggar knows about slacks for university men! These great doubleknit slacks fill your need ... perfectly. Choose from popular colors. 


PAY NEXT SUMMER 
Pay one .third in June, one third in July and one third in August with no service or carrying charge to pay. What could be easier? 
ON THE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAME 

by Stan Urankar 
Going on the road -is a hazard for everv team in the Western· Collegiate Hockey Asociation, but coach Lefty Smith's Notre Dame icers will have more than that on their minds this weekend when they face the perennially rugged 1\1 ichigan Tech Huskies in a crucial Pight -point conference series. 
The Irish are working on a five­game league winning streak that dates back to that big win over Dl•nver last December 9th at the i\CC. This consistency within the WIICi\ is good for a fifth place showing via an 8-6 record (10-10 on the seasonl and 18 points. 
Tl•ch. however. is only a minor part of one of the most important stretches of the 72-73 campaign. Vollowing the series in Houghton, Notre Dame returns home for 


ND fencers open Saturday 
by John Fineran ''This first weekend will tell us an awful lot." admitted ND fencing co.:\R-15Jike DeCicco. and he wasn't t>xaggerating. No one will really know how badly graduation losses have hurt the Irish until aftet Saturday's Quadrangular Meet against Indiana, Purdue. and Chicago Circle in the A.C.C. Auxiliary Gym at 1:30 p.m. lkCicco. starting his twell'th season as Irish coach. will field his most inexperienced squad to date at du Lac. and he is particularly worried about the teams' prospects. especially in Sabre ('ompetition. Ron Sollitto, an assistant this year. and Matt Fruzvnski. DiCicco's one and two men iast season.left the team after posting tOO wins between them in the weapon, and the burden for the Irish Sabre success now rests on the shoulders of tri-captain Dan l\lulligan <twenty victories last yearl. l{oy Seitz and Mike Lyons. lkCicco is optimistic, however, sa~·ing. "Roy learned a lot last ~·ear and hopefully this will make him better. Mike has the quickness and desire to be a good sabre man. and I think he is ready to make his move. Last year, we said the same thing about Ron and l\l;ltl. They kept us in many meets, and I think the boys, especially with Hon helping them, will come through." In the epee. Mike Matranga will serve as tri-captain after finishing :l4-!l last season. DeCicco calls his talent in this weapon "ex­pl'rienced" with John Lauck, North Carey. and Rick Waugh providing it. The coach also feels 
Friday, January 19, 1973 the observer 






leers battle Mich. Tech for 8 

FOR SALE 

Car FOR SALE: 64 Dodge wagon custom 880 Excellent running condition. Good body. $350 234· 7794 
Tennis and Sports equipment ay 
discount prices Limited supply of 
Adidas tennis shoes Chris 3463 
For Sale: Couches $10·30, Chairs 
$5 7.50, Bookcases $10, Endtables 
$3. call Mrs. Cooper 272·3004 
For Sale: Smith Corona Galaxi II Manual Typewriter. $45 259·9266· After 7pm 
For Sale Notre Dame Jacket; Perfect Condition; Size 48; $13· Hillf Bookstore Price Call Herb 8220 
NOTICES 

EARN TOP. MONEY' Part lime promoting student travel. Call or Write The American Student Travel Center. 330 East 9151 St., SL•ite 3F, New York, N.Y. 10028. \212) 831 9057 
Crypt Record Store New $5.98 albums on•v $3.92. Store hours Ml• 1 6. We will deliver to your room phone 233 4993 
Joln the Fl·{mg c;lub Save up to 50 percl•nt <=tyinq Club's own plane Si1VP •.•o to 100 :JPr cPnt on qround ~chout Meeimg Jan. 22, 7:30, Rm. 
L..~· --~~ g~~.i-~'1_·_·~---­
consecutive weekend battles with league-leading Michigan State and fourth-place North Dakota, the Ia tter still another eight-point tussle. 
"These next six games will determine whether we can expect to make the playoffs and even if we~ are in contention for the top 
.


OBSERVER 
SPORTS 
that competition this season will favor his ep~e-men, as other teams have graduated many talented fencers in thi!? weapon. Tim Taylor. who graduated last season after going 38-15. also returns as an assistant to DeCicco in the epee class. 
Dt>Cicco feels the strongest weapon for the Irish this season will be the foil. Tri-Captain Mike Cornwall. Tom Coye, and Jim l\lullenix all return. and each is lighting to establish himself as number one in the weapon. DeCicco feels this competition is good. "The three have this competition going and it can only make them stronger," he feels. And. the Irish will probably face their strongest competition in this weapon. with Illinois, Wayne State, and Detroit all returning excellent fencers. 
Dt>Cicco. after last season's 19-2 mark and eighth place in the national rankings. now stands 183­'!.7 for eleven years. He is proud of his team ("The kids are working hard" l, and he feels Notre Dame again will have a winning season. lie is particularly happy to have Sollitto and Taylor helping him. lie realizes the personal sacrifices each is making and says, "Any success we have this year will be the result of those two guys." 
The team faces another tough schedule. with Ohio State, Illinois, Wisconsin. Wayne State, Detroit, and Wisconsin -Parkside providing the toughest competition for the Irish, yet when DiCicco says. "We'll win our share," he says it with such confidence that ~·ou know Notre Dame will win more than its share. 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 

Need UCLA B Ball Tix Call Scott 1791 or see in 1105 Grace 
Need Ride to Ball State Fri. Jan. 19 Call Ken 3679 
Need to hire students as readers. For information and interview cilll Marc at 8539 
Wanted: 1 or 2 persons interested in occupying a large, attractive house near campus Call Alana 234.9535 or Phil 283·6721 
Part time babysitter needed for five·month-old girl. References requested. Must provide own transportation. Call 288·9892 or 6619 
Need· 2 or 3 UCLA tickets. Th1mks. Kevin 1329 
OVERSEAS JOBS FOR STUDENTS Australia, Europe. 
S. America, Africa. Most professions. ·summer or full time, expenses paid, sightseeing. Free information, write, TWR Co. Dept. F2 2550 Telegraph i;lve., Berkeley, CA. 9470J 
STUDENT TO DISTRIBUTE VERY UNUSUAL COMPUTER i)ATING FORMS. $400$600 ·MO. \Vrite Box 508, Boulder. Colo. 

F 'f ~ ., 

' .· ~ .~ . . 'I 
position," says Smith. "But doing well in this series at Tech is the key to it all." 
Junior Eddie Bumbacco con­tinues to give fits to opposing goal tenders. The left winger from Saulte St. Marie currently tops Irish point-getters with 46 on 25 goals and 21 assists. Ian Williams 
and John Noble are next in line with :~o and 27 points, respectively. 
!\lost pleasing to Smith, though, is the balanced scoring production throughout all three lines that has 
been  desperately  needed  since  
Parly  in  the  season.  Larry  
Israelson  and  freshman  Dave  

!lowe each came through with three goals in last weekend's sweep of Coloradlo College. 
The Huskies won't be playing dead. despite their seventh place ranking and 6-5 conference mark. TPch has lost just once in eight non­league games which include a pair of wins over Bowling Green and second-place showing in the Great Lakes Invitational Tournament. 
Lately. things haven't been that good in Houghton. Coach John l\Jacinnes' squad is saddled with the burden of a three-game losing streak. the last two coming at the hands of l\linnesota-Duluth, a team that had never before swept a two­game set with Tech. 
Goaltending is the Huskies' biggest strength with Rick Quance, freshman .Jim Warden, and former All-American Morris Trewin l'ombinihg for a 3.7 goals against average. Quance. a junior from Toronto. has been the best so far sporting a 2.B mark in six games: 
Six different players have better than 20 points, and four of those have chipped in with at least ten goals. Captain Graham Wise leads 
• 
Irish goalie Mark Kronholm faces a stern test 
Dame meets Michigan Tech in an important 8-point series. all scorer.swith 26 P?ints and ~rosh sophomore winger, whose 17 eenter M1ke Zuke IS ~ext w1th a assists leads the squad in that dozen goals and 25 pomts. department. will be watching in 
Tech will be witho.ut the servic~s street clothes due to a game­of playmaker B11l Steele m misconduct received for fighting tonight's opening game. The last Saturday at Duluth. 

WCHA STANDINGS 
Pts Pis 
w L 
T Pts Lost ·Hemain 

Michigan State H 2 
29 7 :~6 

Denver !) ;; () 
26 14 :l2 

Wisconsin 
11 4 
25 II :l6 

North Dakota 
10 :i 
'!.3 13 :l6 

Notre Dame 
!l () () 
18 J.t .to 

Minn-Duluth 
8 !l 
0 16 20 :l6 

Michigan Tech {i ;; () 
14 14 44 

Minnesota 
:~ !l 
II 25 :l6 

Michigan 
:l 
13 0 B 28 :l6 

Colorado Col. 
12 0 
'!. 26 44 

THE STUDENT UNION PRESENTS 
A Mardi Gras Concert with 
SANTANA FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 9 at 8:00 
Tickets: $sso, 45o, 3oo Tickets on sale Monday, Jan. 22, at 3:00. 

a bus to Indianapolis 
NEIL YOUNG in cmcert TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 13 
s6so concert ticket plus price of bus ride; sorry we 
cannot sell concert ticke~ts separately.  ·  
Ticket sale to be announced.  (.  , .  
'.;  
an evening with  
J  1,'  

TH,E PAUL WINTER' CIONSORT~\ SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 24 
8:00pm in O'Laughlin Auditorium Tickets: s2so in advance, s3oo at the door 
Ticket sale to be announced 
L----·---~·· ------·-----··---------------·--··--------~---' 
• I 'f 

the observer Friday, January 19, 1973
8 



Irish seek .500 level vs. Dayton 

pumped in 15 field goals and two free throws--all during the first 20 minutes of play.
.. 
Joining Smith in the Flyer back­eourt is 6-5 Mike Sylvester (15.6 ppg l. a converted forward. Svlvester. like Smith, is a co­l';lptain this year, and the two of them are such steady performers that Coach Donoher has rated his backcourt as the strongest part of his team. 

The I<'lyers' front line is an­chored bv center John VonLeh­

man. a 1i-s. 200 pounder who is L...-----------------------~~-....1 
by Vic Dorr 
When the University of Dayton's basketball Flyers make their appearance in the Athletic and Convocation Center tomorrow aftl'rnoon. they will be in much the saml' position that Notre Dame's cagers were in only a week ago. 
It will be the luckless Flyers, not the Irish. who will be seeking a streak-stopping victory. and Notre Daml'. not Marquette, who will be trying to add to a consecutive-win string. 
The Irish are still years away from Marquette's at-home record, but Coach Digger Phelps' squad has won four games in a row, and a win over thl' young ND team would lH' a sorely-needed tonic for Dayton. The Flyers will come to South Bend with a losing record:-­!hey are 5-8--but UD's most recent setback was a one-point loss to nationally-ranked Louisville, and several other Flyer losses have come at the hands of big-name powers such as Michigan (81-78) and Alabama (77-76). 
The plus side of the Dayton l<>dger includes wins over Doug Collins' Illinois State quintet (81­75). Auburn 1106-63), and Xavier--a future opponent of the Irish (98-82). 
Inconsistency has plagued Coach Don Donoher's club throughout the 1972-'73 campaign. Against Xavier's Musketeers, earlier in the season, the Flyers put on a brilliant first-half shooting exhibition--77 percent from the field--and coasted in to any easy win. Just last Saturday, though, Dayton did little offensively or defensively against unheralded Old Dominion University, and lost 77-72. 

But the Flyers, should they have an "on" day tomorrow. will give the Irish all they can cope with. The toughest UD player for Notre Daml' to handle will likely be Donnie Smith. a 6-0, !55-pound junior guard. Smith. who is touted by the Dayton athletic department as being a sure All-American· eondidate, was averaging 25.9 points a game prior to Wed­nesday's game with Louisville, and he has been the brightest part of Dayton's disappointing cage season. Two weeks ago, in a losing pffort to Eastern Kentucky. Smith tallied :J4 points. And last week, in the Flyers' romp of Xavier. Smith 
averaging just over 10 points a "Last year." said the UD coach, gaml'. VonLehman. Smith, and "we thought that we were going to Sylvester are the only Dayton have to utilize our speed because starters currently averaging we didn't have a whole lot of size. double figures. The two forwards, Actually, we overestimated our (i-8 Allen ~lijah and 6-8 Joe Fis.her, speed. We didn't have that much are scormg 8.4 and 7.8 pomts, of it. As we got into our schedule, respectively. full-court presses and the run-and-
Last season, Dayton downed shoot style kind of hurt us. This Notre. Dame. 86-74, in a fre~-~·ear we:ll be a bigger team and we wheehng, run-and-shoot affa1r probably won't rely on the run-and­
which was the final game of the . · 'd 1season for both teams. But the shoot tactics as we di ast. year. Fivers' tempo has been different We'll probably play more hke our this season. teams of the past. although we will 
Hurting wrestlers beaten in South 
by "Lefty" Ruschmann wrestlers proved to be much \·ietorious. this limP by a 5-4 tougher competition and beat the dPl'ision. while AI Hocek upped his 
Notre Dame's wrestlers will Irish by a 28-9 margin. For Notre season log to 111-1 with a third­attempt to resume their winning Dame. Mike Marlin was again pPriod pin. ways this weekend, following a dis.appointing Florida vacation 
road trip during which they Trackmen host Ball State 
dropped a pr i.r of dual. mee.ts to Notre Dame's track team. under Florida Tech and the Umversity of new eoach Don Faley, will open its Florida. 1973 indoor season against a strong 
Injuries continued to compo~nd Ball State llniversity squad tonight Irish woes. This time the services at li:30 in the ACC. of 177-pound Mike Moran were lost 
I 

for the remainder of the season as 
Sailors e ect 

a result of a knee injury--the fifth "Th<' Big Shue", John Shumate, shown in action here against Pitt, has of the season for coach Terry been a key man in Notre Dame's basketball resurgence. Mather's matmen. 

new oHicers
•1• k• 

Notre Dame will have threeD0 n s. In5 111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 chances this weekend to improve The Notre Dame Sailing Club upon their record, all of them on finished the fall sailing season the road. Coach Mather's squad with its annual Midwinter Awards travels today to Greencastle, Ind., and Election Banquet. New of­to face DePauw University in a ficers were elected, and trophies
W• • • fh d• • dualmcet. OnSaturday,thelrish · f tt d'
lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllt Inn1ng IS e me ICInemove on to Eastern Kentucky for a ~~~~~a~~~~~ or ou s an mg per-
There is a definite change among the Notre Dame basketball players. tri.angular meet against Evan-AI Constants was voted tne new Their confidence seems to be building with every game. , sville and E.K.U. Commodore, taking over the job The first seven games of the season were very frustrating and Mather. who has been forced to from Tim Floor, Jon Makielski, the demoralizing. Our single win over Valpo didn't seem to supply the use patchwork lineups all season, Vice-Commodore, Neil Barth, spark to win the close ones that followed. Losing games in the last minute admitted that his wrestlers will be l{car Commodore, Rob Albergo, can ereate a very bad atmosphere among the team and the fans. We at a disadvantage for the Secretary, and Mike Dooley, were wondering if we were jinxed in the close ones. This was topped off remainder of the season. "We'll be Treasurer. The 1973 Racing Team by losing to Kentucky by two points the night before we got a three day behind the eight-ball every match Captain is Bruce Marek. Dr. Don break to go home for New Year's Eve. we go into from now on," the Irish Linger. Chairman of Civil 
But we came back anxious to play Kansas and to put the old year mentor commented. "But these Engineering, is the faculty ad­llt'hind us. It was a new year and we were going to treat the rest of o~r are fighting kids with a lot of visor. games as such. We lived in the Morris Inn during the vacation, and th1s dedication, and I think we're going Along with Flood, the other brought the team together as friends, not just as basketball pl~yer~. We to win some matches." Mather, outgoing officers were Chris had our minds set that we were not going to be here over vacatwn JUSt to explaining the rash of knee in-Nedeau. Will Donelan. Bruce 
lose games. . juries. said. "I guess the law of l\larek. Dick Keenan and GeorgeFinally, with our overtime win over Kansas, somethmg happ~ned. Y!e averages just caught up with me." Gaw. knew we could win the close ones. The locker room was f1lled w1th Florida Tech, the first Irish The "Yachtsman of the Year" congratulations and laughs. It was b~tter for u~ mentally to beat Ka~sas opponent. eked out a 19-16 decisiori award went to Gaw. His per­in ovcrt1me than to beat them by a wide margm. The team had gamed after a late Notre Dame rally. formances included Low Point some experience and maturity in the previous games and with the help of John Dowd 11901 registered a Skipper at the Northwestern and a few wins. that created some much needed confidence. We're now second-period pin and Marquette regattas. He also did thinking positively, and we feel we can play with ~nyone .. The team as a heavyweight AI Rocek won an 11-5 very well at the 17 school Timme whole has gotten closer, and everyone has confidence m each other. decision. Mike Martin, the squad Angsten Regatta. Marek was There aren't just five players involved in the game--each member of the co-captain wrestling at 126 pounds, named the "Crew of the Year." tl•am contributes to a victory. was also a winner, while both Marc The Donahue Cup, awarded an-The squad is tired of losing and of letting the coaches, the fans, and Honquillo 1118) and Rick Gilloon nually to the best freshman or themselves down. We're still a young team that doesn't want to be aged 1158) both earned draws. Gilloon, novice skipper. went to Robie Gaw. by mon•losses. We're going to take each game as it comes, a'!d giye 100 tabbed by Coach Mather as the The sailing team has already 
per cent every lime. We hope this will produce as many v1ctones as team's most improved wrestler, started its 1973 activities. Finding possible. was also voted "Wrestler of the St ..Joe's Lakeclearoficeon return The fans have helped us greatly so far, and we need that support. \Ye're Week" for the Florida trip by his from Christmas vacation, they 
ready to compete with anyone. There is definitely a winning attitude teammates. already have three boats in the growing within the team. The University of Florida water and are sailing daily. 
spend soml' time with full-court presses." 
In Nctrl.' Dame. the Flyers will meet a team that enjoys run-and­shoot. full-court pressing games. Offensivl'lv. the Irish are led by (;arv Brokaw (who scored 26 poin.ts in NO's win over Pitt) and John Shumate I who clicked for 24 l. 
On defense, the Irish rely heavily on trapping, pressing com­binations that forced Pittsburgh
into many of their :Jo turnovers. Tipoff for tomorrow's game is set for 1::lo pm in the ACC. 
Till' Irish are expected to present 
a well·balanced team this year and 
should be especially strong in the 
middle distances. NCAA !:ross 
country finals participants Dan 
Dunne and Marty Hill will provide 
the ll•adership and experience in 
1 hese events while sophomores 
Mike Gahagan and Mike Housley 
will provide excellent depth. Ball 
State senior Steve Wynder. who 
finished second in Notre Dame's 
Cross Country Invitational this fall 
and who placed first in most of Ball 
State's dual meets this year will 
spotlight the distance events. 

"We've had to sacrifice some 
workouts because of the vacation 
period."said Faley, "but hopefully 
Wt' can get off to a good start in our 
opening meet." 

Three upperclassmen and two 
freshmen will give the Irish fine 
quartl.'r-mile and mile-relay 
squads. Juniors Don Creehan, Vic 
Pantea and Bill Phillips will be 
joined by first-year men Bob Schott. the Connecticut State 440­yard champ and Don Opal. the Illinois finalist. 
Current NCAA indoor champion, Tom McMannon will lead the Irish in the 60-yard high hurdles and will be joined by Jack Gerwe, Mike Dimick and frosh Ed Burns in the shuttle hurdle relays. McMannon, who won the NCAA crown last year in :07.2, also shares the American record for the shuttle hurdle relay. 
Junior Shawn Powers and fresh­man Mike Hogan of Mishawaka Marian. should give the Irish improved strength in the pole vault. one of the weaker events in the past few years. 
Field events start at 6:30 while the track events begin at 7:00p.m. Admission alGate 4 of the ACC will he $1.00 for adults and 50 cents for children. Notre Dame students will be admitteci upon presf'ntatwn of their m carrls. 





