
On The Inside 
Woods erases tapes ... p. 4 
Calendar opinions 
... p. 5 

Volume VIll, No. so 
serving th~e 
Real Christmas trees prohibited 
by Bob Quakenbush Staff Reporter 
The Student Life Council voted to prohibit the use of natural evergreen trees as Christmas ornamentation this uear in order to comply with federal regulations which make the custom illegal at Notre Dame. During its last regular meeting on Monday , November 19, the SLC also decided to seek an open forum with the University Provost to discuss the rationale behind the proposed 1974-75 University calendar. 
The move to eliminate the potential hazards of natural trees is a move diesigned to comply with the Occupational Safety and Health Act (O.S.H.A.( which became effective in April of 1972. This act requires all businesses and in­stitutions which employ a certain number of persons to meet certain federal safety criteria (or state criteria which have received federal approval). At present, the state of Indiana has such an act in the process of ap­proval; in the meantime, however, the University is subject to federal Jregulations.. 
THe act has been amended to include the Life Safety Code of 1973 established by the National Fire Protection Association. Under this code, it is actually illegal for the University to permit the use of natural trees. 
Br. Kierar Ryan, speaking for the University's 25­menber Central O.S.H.A. Committee, told the SLC, "With Christmas coming on, one of the very hazardous practices observed on campus is tlle use of "live,' evergreen trees." 
"Therefore, "Ryan continu ed, "the Central O.S.H.A. Committee recommends prohibiting the use of natural evergreen trees and-or the branches of the same as Christmas decorations in all campus buildings and of­fices." 
Emphasizing that it is "actually illegal for the 
University to permit the practice to continue," Ryan 
noted that Notre Dame is sbuject to inspection by federal 
safety inspectors at any time. 
Ryan informed the SLC,"In the past we were not sub­
ject to fines and penalties, but today we are." He added 
tha failure to comply with the federal regualtions could 
also result in increased insurance premiums. 
THe new rule does not prohibit the use of Chirstmas 
decoration.; altogether. Instead, the O.S.H.A. Committee 
suggestf; the use of fire proof artificial trees and trim­
mings where such Christmas decorations are desired. 
The motion to comply with the recommendation was 
passed by a majority vote, with two students voicing 
"nay" votes in "the spirit of Christmas." 
The SLC's Planning and Policy Committee introduced a 
resolution concerning the proposed 1974-75 University 
calendar. The first part of the resolution calls for the SLC 
"to call on Fr. Burtchaell, as Provost of the University, 
tomeet with te SLC in open forum to discuss fully the 
rationale of the 1974 calendar ... " The second part of the 
resolution makes it official policy for the SLC to "con­
tinually monitor University decisions." 
The motion passed unanimously.lf Burtchaell agrees to 
the forum, a date, time, and facilities large enough to 
accomodate all students interested in attending will be 
selected and announced. 
John Macheaca, Dean of Students, spoke briefly at the 
meeting about the effects of the new alcohol guidelines. 
Although he noted there have been some bad reactions, he 
remarked that, "Generally, it's gone pretty well." 
Macheaca pointed out that were halls have really taken 
the initaitive in experimentation under the guidelines, the 
students involved "Have felt it was worth the effort and 
that the outcome had been a positive aspect of their social 
life at Notre Dame." 
Macheaca reported that he had recently been visited by 
the director of Michigan State University,s alcohol 
program, who "was very impressed and had some very 
good things to say about it. "He commented that this was a 
credit to the people who have taken the time to work with 
new ideas and implement them. 
Cautioning against over-optimism, Macheaca quickly 
added, "Nevertheless, we do still have problems with 
alcohol on this campus." 
Machea expressed one other concern, "We're also 
beginning to be concerned about there being less parties, 
perhaps a result of apathy." 
In other business, the SLC held a closed session to 
present nominations fo the University Board. The names 
of the nominees were temporarily withheld from the 
campus media pending the nominees' notification and 
acceptance. 
· The Off-Campus Committee reported that it is 
exploring the feasibility of a food co-op for off-campus 
students, and is also searching for a better way of 
distributing Observers and directories to them. 

1.000 Sugar Bowl tix set for student sales Monday 

by Zenon Bid.dnski Staff Reporter 
Sugar Bowl tickets for Notre Dame students go on sale next Monday, December 3. Donald Bouffard, ticket manager, said that 100<· tickets are available for students this year, just as in past years. 
Seniors have priority and they may purchase tickets Monday. Juniors and graduate and law students can buy tickets Tuesday, Sophomores and Freshmen, providing that any tickets remain, may purchase them Wednesday, Dec. 5 and Thursday, Dec. 6, respectively. 
St. Mary's students do not have an option to purchase tickets. Bouffard explained that no tickets for bowl games have been allotted to SMC since the merger was cancelled. 
Ticket sales will be at the ticket windows on the2ndflooroftheACC,from9a.m. to4p.m. ID cards must be presented and each student is limited to the purchase of one ticket. Spouses of married students will receive no priority. 
Price for th1e reserved student seats is $7.50, with no student discount available. Purchase of the ticket is baser. upon personal use. Students must present their ID card with the ticket at the gate for admission to the Sugar Bowl. 
The Notre Dame Ticket Office received 13,483 
tickets from the Sugar Bowl this year. The 
remaining 12,483 tickets, according to Bouffard 
are being sold to faculty and contributing alumni 
both of which comprise one ordering group. 
Bouffard said that Notre Dame and Alabama, 
as participating teams, together received one 
third of the total game tickets. Sugar Bowl rules 
state that the participating teams must split this 
one third allocation.The ticket manager added 
that he already tried to obtain extra student 
tickets, but was unsuccessful. Last year 
Bouffard obtained an additional 700 student 
tickets. Sugar Bowl officials, however, say that 
they are already sold out. 
The ticket sale for faculty and contributing 
alumni begins on Friday, December 7. Ap­
plications which are good for two tickets were 
mailed yesterday to this group. 
A lottery will be held that Friday, according to 
Bouffard, if requests for more than 12,483 tickets 
are received by then. He said that he hoped the 
ticket allocation would be adequate but didn't 
know how great the demand would be. He thinks 
the demand will depend on the results of Notre 
Dame's andAlabama'slast games and may even depend on transportation problems created by the energy crisis. 
Bouffard did say, however, that since the 
Sugar Bowl announcement he has spent 80 per 
cent of his time on the phone trying to placate 
people who can't get applications for tickets. 
The ticket manager explained that ticket 
allocaton to students, faculty, and alumni has 
remained substantially unchanged since the first 
Cotton Bowl game. He added that he devised the 
distribution policy then and the Athletic Board 
approved it. 
The Athletic Board is composed of the 
University Executive Vice-President, Father 
Joyce; Vice-President for Student Affairs, 
Phillip Facenda; a faculty member from each 
college elected by the college council; and an 
equal number of faculty members appointed by 
President Hesburgh. Father Joyce is ehairman 

Donald Bouffard: As in the past 1000 student tickets are available for the bowl game. 
of the board. 
Bouffard said that the distribution policy has worked fine in past boy;l games. Rethought that there was an adequate supply of student tickets for the two Cotton Bowls and that the 700 extra student tickets last year relieved the demand. This year, how<>ver, Bouffard thinks that both student and faculty and alumni demand may exceed the number of allotted tickets. 
The ticket office, said Bouffard, wishes to ex­press its regret that more tickets weren't available. "I wish we could take care of every Notre Dame fan who would like to go, but it's impossible," he said. 
"It's strictly a matter of supply and demand and we have to establish priorities," the ticket manager added. "There's great pressure from contributing alumni and from the Office of PubliL Relations and Development, and we have an obligation to the alumni. As you know, the student tuition doesn't exactly cover costs," he explained. 
"Concerning students, "Bouffard continued, "seniors have to have priority. They have been here the longest and it's their last year." 
The reaction to Notre Dame's invitation to the Sugar Bowl is generally one of happiness and s~tisfa~ti?n. Bouffard si_aid, "I am particularly 
pleased because we play Alabama, who should be ranked number 1 as of this week. Hopefully, we will get to that status ourselves. 
Director of Athletics, Edward "Moose" Krause, claimed, "College football has becon e more exciting since Notre Dame entered the bowl picture. We welcome the challenge to play the number 1 team in the nation and welcome the opportunity to win the National Championsh J." 
"This will be the outstanding bowl game,' he added. 
Mardi Gras preview ...see page 3 


Little Big Screen ...see p,pge 7 
'i '' '., 
.' .~.~--------------------------------------------------~ 
" ' . 

1. the observer 
.. ·... '". .' .~ ·. t Tuesday, November 27, 1973 
warld 

briefs 
Washington (UPI> President Nixon Monday renewed his pl~a for Americans to curb their use of energy, and pledged to resist World War 11-type gasoline rationing. . . 
Speaker Carl Albert said the House probably would act withm two weeks on legislation, already approved by the Sen~te, to give the President most of the energy-saving authonty he requested. 
The House Appropriations Committee pushed toward passage 
of a 'bill carrying funds for the trans-Alaska pipeline and other 
energy n1easures. 
Treasury Secretary George Schultz said he thought the United States could handle the energy problem without major economic disruption. But he said the petroleum squeeze shoul~ be regarded as more than temporary and if the nation does not develop self-sufficiency in that fuel "we're just crazy." 

NEW YORK <UPI>-The Dow Jones industrial average took the fifth largest loss in its history Monday , plunging more than 29 points on the New York Stock Exchange. Analysts said investors had little confidence in President Nixon's new energy program which many said could lead to a recession. 
The Dow Jones industrial average, tlie most widely followed indicator on Wall Street, plunged 29.05 points to 824.95. It was the worst loss the average has suffered since it dropped 34.95 on May 28, 1962 during President Kennedy's confrontation with the sieel industry over prices. Its closing was the lowest since it closed November 26, 1972 at 816.59, exactly. 
Washington <UPI>-The first congressional hearing into the nomination of Gerald Ford to be vice president ended Monday . The House Judiciary Committee, wound up its hearings and is expected to pass on the nomination Thursday. The Senate opened its debate on his nomination with approval, scheduled for 4:30p.m. EST Tuesday, almost certain. 
ati& campus taday 
4:00pm -lecture, afrotc lecture series, col. falvey, admission 
free, library auditorium 
6:30pm-meeting, flying irish flying club, room 12, aerospace 
building · 
7:30 pm -lecture, transcendental meditation, students in­ternational meditation society, library auditorium 7:30pm -lecture dr. jesus chavarria, history dept. of university 
of california, mexican-american lecture series, library lounge 7:30pm-wrestling, nd vs. chicago state, auxiliary gym 
8:00 
pm -discussion, 'current chilean crisis,' dr. michael francis, walsh basement 

8:00 
pm -lecture, tom hayden and david dellinger, chicago seven defendents, Iafortune ballroom 


8:00pm-discussion, discussion, dean of students john macheca and fr. terrence Iaiiy, keenan-stanford chapel 
deadline for on campus today announcements is 3;00 pm on day prior to event 

at nd-smc 

Ben-Gurion unchanged in recovery from stroke 
TEL AVIV (UPI) -Doctors reported no change Monday in the serious condition of former Prime Minister David Ben­Gurion, hospitalized more than a week ago with a stroke and suffering paralysis to his right side. 
"There has been no change in 1 
his condition," the doctors said in an evening bulletin at Sheba 1 
Medical  center  outside  Tel.  
Aviv.  '  
Ben-Gurion, 87,  took  a  turn  
for' the  worse  Saturday  with  

reports that his 'blood pressure and pulse had dropped and his 
I . 

'r 
................. .i. .. • • ... .. • • .. • • ~ • ... ._ • • ... ~ ~ 

t 



ND patron O'Shaughnessy dies 
by Michael Welby Staff Reporter 
Ignasius Aloysius 
0 .Shaughnessy, millionaire oilman, University Trustee, and longtime benefactor of Notre Dame, passed away last Wed­nesday in a Bal Harbour, Fla., hsopital. O'Shaughnessy, 88, had suffered a stroke four days earlier. 
He leaves behind him more than the mill ions he donated to educational, medical, and religious institutions around the world. Ignasius O'Shaughnessy stands as an example, an example of a truly self-made man. 
O'Shaughnessy contributions to Notre Dame alone totalled nearly four million dollars. He is best known here for donating the Hall of Liberal and Fine Arts which bears his name and for his $1,000,000 contribution to help finance the Memorial Library in 1962. These were his major contributions to this university and give him the 

distinction  of  being  the  largest  
single benefac tor in  the school's  
history.  

Along with his donations here at Notre Dame, O'Shaughnessy has made substantial donations to the development of St. Louis University (Mo.), St. Thomas College, St. Catherine's College, Murray High School, and Our Lady of Peace High School, all in St. Paul, Min,. He is also a benefactor of the University of Minnesota, the 
U.S. Naval Academy, Lehigh University, Carleton College, and Macalester College. 
Bron in Stillwater, Minnesota, on July 31, 1885, Mr. O'Shaughnessy was the last of thirteen children. His mother named him Ignasius, "because all the good names like Mary, John and Joseph were gone by then," O'Shaughnessy is quoted as saying once. 
The son of a bootmaker, "Nashe" O'Shaughnessy put himself through St. Thomas College as the student secretary of the college president and captain of the football team. 
Upon his graduation in 1906, O'Shaughnessy or I.A. as he liked to be called, followed his brother into the insurance business for a few years before finally establishing himself in the oil industry. It was in oil that Mr. O'Shaughnessy amassed his fortune. By 1935, with a com-

Course correction 
Theology 334, Religion and World Injustice, is listed in­correctly in the Spriing Semester Course Booklet. The course, taught by Frs. McNeill and Horn, will meet at 1TT3 instead of 10TT12 as listed in the booklet. Further information on the class can be obtained by calling Sharon at 3611 or Mary at 6766. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S8 per semester ($14 per year) from The 

body temperature had risen. He 
Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 

was in a state of "fogging 
consciousness," thE' doctors 
46556.
said. 
1 

See the GIBSON MODELS in a BEAUTY PAGEANT & REVUE & CHRISTMAS FASHION SHOW t 
a a MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM THUR. DEC. 13 
'"" 

8:00 pm ALL SEATS $2.00 
I TICKETS THRU MODELS . BOX OFFICE AGENCY 
bination of luck, great abilities, and personal courage, 
O'Shaughnessy  was  head  of  the  
largest  refineries  owned  by  an  
individual in the world.  

and Refining Company, presidnet of Globe Pipeline Compnay, and president of the Lario Gas and Oil r ....mpnay. He was director of uumberous organizations ranging from the First National Bank of St. Paul to the Minnesota Medical Foundation. He was a trustee of this university from 1945 unti his death and the president of the board from 1950-54. 
O'Shaughnessy was hihgly honored all over the world. H held honorary degrees at several universities including Notre Dame in 1947. He was a Knight of the Holy Sepulchre, holder of the University of Minnesota Regents Medal, and the 1953 recipient of Notre Dame's Laetare Medal just to name a few 
A proud, determined, and playful man for all his days, Mr. O'Shaughnessy's success was matched only by his sense of values and generosity. Indeed, as this man is laid to rest, Notre Dame and ed~cational institutions all over the world have lost a true friend. 

=~~~~r=H=e=ii:=:=A=R=E=:===2=6=====o=A=v=s====s=i=F=o=R:E:=:l~ :~~~· THIS SEMESTER ENDS--] 
still time to: ·share values ·ask questions ·reflect 


!j~~=:=:::=:=:===:=::::;:;::=====================:=====~t=:=~=g=~====~g=:J:g:~l:====Uf:~1t==============J! 
RETREAT · OLD COLLEGE 
TOM STELLA, CSC 
(FRI.) NOV. 30 -(SUN) DEC. 2 
reservation can be made in the campus ministry office ( 103 Lib) $5 fee--$3 non-refundable deposit 


ALIFORNIA CLU TWA XMAS FLITE *$201 RND TRIP* 

TO SAN FRANCISCO 


FULL PAYMENT DUE THIS FRIDAY NOV. 30 AT BADIN TRAVEL AGENCY 
·ONLY 40 SEATS AVAILABLE· 
' •• ~ ... 1 ' 

The energy shortage 




Has the crisis hit Notre Dame? 
by AI Rutherford Staff Reporter 

Is there an energy crisis at Notre Dame~ Ac­cording to Mr. William Ganser, chief engineer of utilities, the campus has enough coal on hand to last for 60 days. 
Mr. Ganser, who has been chief engineer for 30 years, commented further, "There are problems for everyone right now. Even our plant is affected by minor delays of shipments and it's expected to get worse." 
The plant consumes 150-200 tons of coal daily to light and heat the campus. Most of the coal is ob­tained from Illinois mines and its costis measured in millions of BTUs. A BTU is the amount of heat needed to raise a pound of water one degree fahreheit at or near 32.9 degrees fahrenheit. In 1968, the cost was 31 cents, in 1971, 43 cents, and as of last month, the cost was 57 cents. In November, costs are expected to increase by 2 cents. 
Oil would be much more expensive to use, costing over a $1.00 per million BTU. The campus is also supplied by the Indiana­Michigan Power Company. Of the 55 billion kilowatts used in one year,the company supplies 15 billion or 27 per cent of the total need on campus. During the day, the power company supplies 2.6 million watts or 33 per cent of the total energy. At night, the power company supplies only 9 per cent of the total energy available. 
The demand on campus now is about 9 million watts. The boiler supplies the majority of the power. But the boiler can freeze up if demand becomes too low. Slag, which is a product of bur­ning coal, whould solidify if the load falls too far below 5 million watts. The boiler would then be taken out of commission for a complete over baul. 
"The time to save power is between 10 a.m. and 6 

p.m.," commented Ganser. "Since there is an 
excess capacity of fuel in the midwest, we hope to 
send extra coal and oil to the east coast.'' 
"I saw the crisis coming for the last four years," explained Ganser. "There is enough coal but the demand for it will be heavy since oil is scarce. The railroads are in bad shape due to lack of upkeep and 
(THE OBSERVER) 

~ 
' 
j 

Around Campus 
Tuesday, November 27, 1973 Page 3 

'Master of Middle Earth' theme 
highlights Mardi Gras festivities 
"Master of Middle Earth, JRR Tolkien" is the theme of this year's Mardi Gras, the traditional second semester carnival held in Step an Center scheduled for Feb. 1-10, proceeds of the event will go to ND charities, according to Steve Boy, general chairman of the Mardi Gras committee. 
Costume balls and a concertare included in the 10 day extravaganza. The carniva~ itself, held in Step an Center, offers "games of chance" in 24 booths designed by ND architecture students in the "Middle Earth" theme, and run by Notre Dame halls, clubs, and organizations. 
There will be live bands at the carnival while the booths will offer blackjack, roulette, poker, and dice using donations of playing cards and dice obtained by A.J. Swartz, the games chairman, from Caesar's Palace of Las Vegas. 
The carnival fortnight begins Jan. 31, with "Bilbo's long expected party," a costume ball, with music and refreshments. 
based on Book l, Chapter l of the first of J. Tolkien's trilogy books. 
Feb. 2 marks possibly "the best concert of the year" according to Boy, as NO's Concert Co­ordinator, Rich Donovan, "is closing the deal now." 
The "2-fold purpose of Mardi Gras includes raising moiney,(or01,p:owq f'l"P ct,J~r!Qes,.as.-w((ll•alt. · ·, ·.· putting on a gteat !lOdaf event. ThErin'o'st Important · · · will hinder transportation of fuel." Ganser con­tinued, "We're going to pay for it now." 
In other developments on the energy crisis, Vice­president of Business Affairs Father Jerome Wilson stated that a committee is to be formed consisting of students, faculty , and staff members of the power plant to study ways to conserve energy on campus. Meetings are also planned with thP Director of 
money-raising aspect is the raffle," said. Boy, in reference to the drawing for a 1974 Chevrolet Im­pala. Boy stresses the need to sell the booklets issued to each student through Hall Representatives and the Off-Campus office. 
As incentives to students , not only is a $2.00 commission offered for each book sold, but there will be a $500 cash prize drawing for student sellers, a $500 prize to the top-campus seller, ,$250 to the 2nd top campus seller, plus five $50 theme prizes. 
Boy points out that the top-campus seller of the last 3 years, who has now graduated, averaged 500 books a year, or at least $1500personal profit by this year's system. 
"If each student sold only l book, that could make the whole thing," said Boy in reference to the ND charities benefiting from Mardi Gras, which in­clude Manassa, CILA, the Neighborhood Study Program, and Sr. Marita's day school. 
The two week, surrealistic-themed carnival should be good", concluded Boy. "The Mardi Gras committee has been working on this since last April, and with the student's help this should be one of the best Mardi Gras' we have had in six or seven years." 
Anyone interested in working on special projects .. or other facets of Mar.di Gras.should ·contact 'J'anet. ·•..• Waltman, co-ordinator, at 8016. . .• , , · 
"A A 
Maintanence and the Director of the ACC to discuss ways to decrease lighting and heating. Director of the Dining Hall Services, Edmund Price, is awaiting guidelines from the University as to the best way to conserve energy. 
The only visible sign on campus of saving energy was the turning off of the spotlight on the mural fronting the Memorial Library. 


Calendar comment 
.. In addition to the release of the new academic calendar on Nov. 16, the University Ad­ministration released this statement by Dr. William Burke, Assistant provost, explaining the university's reasoning on the calendar. 
There are some universals associated with calendar making in academe, and one of the best-known is tinged with the kind of realism born of experience: There is no calendar change which is going to be universally accepted by those affected by it. It is important to point out that virtually all the suggestions and alter­natives now being offered have been considered, either by the Academic Council (which last December authorized the Administration to start the school year before Labor Day), or the committee which planned our calendar, or those who agreed to modifications after discussions with Saint Mary's College representatives. There is a great deal of complexity involved in such a calendar, including for example, use of the computer to create a minimum examination period, and that is perhaps one reason why the Academic Council has reaffirmed the task as one devolving upon the Administration. 
The major reason for the pre-Labor Day start is to create a midsemester break similar to that in the spring term. When we went to a calendar which ended the fall semester before Christmas, it was soon evident that we had created an enervating experience for both faculty and students.-The chief evidence of this was the increasing erosion on both ends of existing breaks, particularly that of Thanksgiving. Students simply created the long break they 
.. needed, to their academic detriment. Those who studied the alternatives to a pre-Labor Day start found none which better served this need. For example, ending classes closer to Christmas invites severe travel problems for those who live a good distance from the campus, making it doubtful they would be able to reach home by Christmas Eve. (One might note that the con­
·, • ti.nuing .e':le~gr ,cris_is, i~ ;goin~ _to. ex<!-cerbate. alte~dr .mr>r,cuu hohd~y _trilY«.:l. -~Y· pu,bJic tra1.1-... 
, t spor a 1on. , , , , , , ., , _~ , • . , .....•.• 

L__________________________________________________________________________________ 
M---~--~--------··········--~---·---­

Tuesday, November 27, 1973
the observer 

Woods 'accidentally' erases part of tape 
by Jane Denison 

WASHINTON <UPD -Rose Mary Woods, President Nixon's personal secretary, testified Monday she accidentally erased a portion of one of his secret Watergate Tapes nearly two months ago and that the President said it "was no problem." 
Miss Woods, testifying at a federal court hearing about an hour after Nixon's subpoenaed tapes were surrendered to the protective custody of the court, said she accidentally erased a portion of one of the recordings on Oct. 1 as she was transcribing it. 
"I pushed the red record button 
down -whether I stepped on the 
foot pedal or pushed the start 
button down, I don't remember," 
Miss Woods said. 
"I so told the President as soon as I went in to see him. I said "I'm afraid I caused a gap in the Haldeman tape.' He said, 'That's no 
the "record" button. 
Miss Woods was asked how long she was on the telephone call which distracted her from the tran­
scription."I thought it was four-five-six minutes," she replied. "Did you think it was 18 and a half minutes'?" she was asked. 
"I didn't think it was, but it must have been," she replied. "I practically panicked," she said. "I pushed the return button and listened and all I heard was the 
noise." 

She then said she told the 
President five minutes later and 
"that's when he told me that it was 
not important because it was not a 
subpoenaed tape.' 

Rosemary Woods took the stand 
just after White House lawyers 
carried the tapes into the cour­
troom in a gray metal toolbox. 
Sirica, who demanded im­
mediate custody of the tapes last 
Wednesday when the 18 minutes gap was disclosed., immediately unsealed the metal box and placed it under the constant guard of federal marshals. He said he would not listen to the tapes im­mediately. 
Mter recounting the incident, Miss Woods was questioned closely by Sirica on her previous testimony at the hearings Nov. 8. 
"Did you mention this last time?" Sirica asked. 
"I thought it was not relevant because it was not a subpoenaed tape," she replied. 
"You were questioned very carefully and thoroughly. Did you not think it was important?" Sirica asked her. 
"It was my first time ever in a courtroom. All I can say is I am dreadfully sorry," she replied. "I thought we were talking about subpoenaed tapes." 
Sirica then ordered that a section of Miss Wood's previous testimony be read into the record. At that time she testified she had been bragging, but I don't believe I'm so "very carefully instructed" stupid that they had to go over and against erasing any portions of the over it. I was told if you push that tapes. button, it will erase. I think I used 
Her Nov. 8 testimony con­every precaustion not to do it. tinued : very carefully didn't touch that "I don't want to sound like I'm side of the machine." 
PhD Candidates & Recipients ­All Disciplines 
MBA's and PhD Candidates in Business 
All adva~ced ~raduate students and faculty in­terested •_n umversity teaching positions and-or corporate mternships in Latin America are invited to meet with Mr. Oscar Porter of the Latin American Teaching Fellowships on Wednesday, November 28 1973, in the Placement Bureau, Room 222 Ad~ ministration Building from 11:00 am -1:00 p~. 

problem. That's not one of the subpoenaed tapes."' 
She said she first began tran­scribing the June 20 tape the weekend of Sept. 29 at Camp David, the President's retreat in the Maryland mountains, and finished the following Monday, Oct. 1. 
Miss Woods said she had been transcribing the tapes and had just gotten to the portion where the President met with Haldeman on 
June 20 when the telephone rang. The ringing telephone distracted her and she said she must have hit 
The 
Fireside 


Watergate 
by Nicholas von Hoffman and Garry Trudeau 
In a breathless and time­ly account of the nation's darkest scandal, Washing­ton's most feared colum­nist, Nick von Hoffman, and Garry Trudeau, crea­tor of "Doonesbury", tell the story of Watergate in language so compelling that it almost seems ac­curate. An important pub­lishing event for those obsessed with the past. 
$4.95 
Sheed & Ward 475 Fifth Ave .. N.Y., N.Y. 10017 


At your bookstore, or by mail from: The Village ·Book Service, Dept. 14, 
2210 W. 75th St., Prairie Village, Kansas 66208. 
(Add 35c per volume for post­age and handling when order­ing by mail.) 
Send.... copies of The Fire­side Watergate @ $5.30 per volume to: 

• NAME
. 
:ADDRESS 
:CITY 
, ·~~~----------------~ 
STATE -~II' .

. .
............................... 
THE STUDENT SURVIVAL KIT. 

IIII 
' I 


D Charge 0 90 Days Same As Cash 0 Budget Plan 0 Master Charge 0 BankAmericard 
ELKHART SOUTH BEND 
Concord Moll __ .Scottsdale Moll __ --·-____ . _~-·,,,., .­Phone 875-6531 Phone 291-5853 
----------------------------------------------------------~1
Tuesday, November 27, 1973 the observer 5 


Students voice calendar opinions 
by Mary Kay Baron 

statute but by choice. Since the
Staff Reporter 

Academic Council wants to
Voicing student discontent with 

maintain the co-ex program with
the new Academic calendar, HPC 
St. Mary's, they think it is im­
members and representatives of 
perative to have a calendar which 
the SLC, Academic Commission 
is common with the calendar of St.
and Student Government met with 
Mary's.

University Provost Father Burt­
A semester break is the final
chaell in a 3-hour long meeting 
stipulation prerequisite to the
held in Dillon's Chapel last 
shaping of the calendar.
Tuesday, November 20. 
"A break is necessary. People
"We finally got everybody's 

need to get away from school
questions out into the open. There 
before Thanksgiving," stated
is still a big difference about which 
Father Burtchaell as the con­
priorities should be weighted and 
cluded the five limits within which 
we came to no definite agreements 
the Academic Council must work.
tonight." 
"There's no choice but to have it 
Observing that "the meeting 

(the beginning of school) before
pointed out a definite lack of lines 
Labor Day. That's the only non­
of communication between the 
discretionary thing in the calendar.
students and the councils that 
You cannot have a 72-day, 5-day
decide their fate at Notre Dame," 
week calendar before Chrsitmas
HPC Executive Coordinator Wally 
with a break unless you go back
Gasior cited as an example the 
before Labor Day."
amount of time spent questioning Father Burtchaell about the ac­tivities of the Academic Council. 
At the meeting Father Burt­chaell explained the history, problems and principles of calendar-making. Five factors limit the flexibility of the 1974 Fall Semester calendar. For the University to maintain its academic accreditation, the semester must contain 72 class days. Classes must culminate before Christmas to allow time for students to travel home for the holidays and it is "our ap­prehension that there's no desire to 
do away with the weekends," stated the University Provost. 
"Consequently, we have to work with five days a week," he con­tinued. This means that there will 


Burtchaell: There's no choice but
be no Saturday classes. 

to have the beginning of school
Te fourth limit was not set by 

before Labor Day. 
• l ) 3 , . • •• l : 
\'' • • II.' I\ I 
"There has been no undisputed Father Burtchaell who principle or effect on the calen­represented the committee who 
dar," the Provost continued. have spent hours preparing the "We've canvassed all sorts of calendar stated, "It was our 
people for two years and we've feeling generally that n1ore people seen so much reversal of opinion. were willing to trade off the extra That is why you have to learn how time (in October) rather than the to calculate the value of asking family at Thanksgiving. However, 
people what it would be like." there is less absenteeism around a 
Subsequently, John Mazza who break that is nine days long rather compiled the student response to than a four-or-five day spell." the survey which was distributed Burtchaell qualified that all of 
to the student body prior to the arguments presented at the Thanksgiving reported the results. meeting have had hours of con-According to the calendar survey 
sideration. "Every possible complexity has been discussed." He reiterated, "It's our common experience that we judge questions of calendar differently when we talk about something we haven't done in comparison to something we have done." 
Tonight, at 6:15pm, the HPC will 
meet in St.Ed's Chapel to discuss this special meeting. HPC meetings are always open to in­terested students. 

89 per cent of the student felt that the calendar affected their op­portunities for summer em­


Buy one­

ployment while 69 per cent of the 

' BUY ONE c-...""''"'

student who responded believed 
~ GET ONE FREE!

the adoption of the new calendar would appreciably decrease their summer earning. 
Father Burtchaell views the statistics to be unreliable. "In a survey which rises up after a calendar has been published, everyone will say that it would have been better another way. Every poll that is taken at that time would be against the calen­dar." 
The student survey also reports 
that approximately 74 per cent of 
the students woul prefer a full 
week vacation at Thanksgiving to 
the proposed October break. (The 
1974 Fall Semester schedule in­
cludes a 10-day mid-semester 
holiday break beginning October 
25 to November 3. ) Another 74 per 
cent of the student favor an 
alternative calendar starting after 
NOW AVAILABLE AT 

Labor Day, eliminating the Oc­tober break, and extending the 
THE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE

Thanksgiving vacation to a full week. Responding to the alternative of lengthening Thanksgiving Break, 
1 
1 
j 


SOCIAL COMMISSION PRESENTS 


THE 'FINALS' FLING * 
A TRADITIONAL EVENING OF PANDEMONIUM 
•


1.e. AN ARMORY PARTY! 
Splurge before studies at the South Bend Armory (Free bus service will be provided.) 
December 8, 1973 music by: Windiammer 
8:30. 12:30 Mark Bloom Band 
TICKETS ($2.~;o per person) ON SALE TONIGHT IN THE DINING HALLS 
*fling: n. a period of unrestrained indulgence of one's impulses 
THE OBSERUER P.O. Box Q
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 

Some 'Hot' Tips 
Art Ferranti Executive Editor 
Lee Gentine Business Manager 

Jerry Lutkus Editor-in-Chief 
NEWS: 283-1715 EDITORIALS: 283-8661 BUSINESS: ?113-7471 
The effect of the energy crisis on Notre Dame is yet to really be felt. The Chief Engineer of Utilities for the university, William Ganser, said that Notre Dame has enough coal to last for 60 days of operation in the power plant, but he seems unsure about incoming supplies. 
Because the crisis hasn't hit ND yet and, presumably because the university produces its own power, no measures have been taken by the administration to con­serve the energy that we have. Instead, in perfect Notre Dame tradition, a committee has been formed to study the problem. The 
[ 
r committee is to come up with suggestions to aid in the energy problem at Notre Dame. 
While they are in conference there are a few easy actions that students can take to ~ combat the situation: 
[ Suggestions 
Room-lights--Shut off the lights to your 
room when you leave and necessary burning of lights. prevent un­


daanesbury 
HOT fJAW6/ ANOTJ{tf!<. ORIJ#! fOR FIVG RGfti6#S fROM 5£NA10R.. U/£t(KGR! 
I 
GREATl 
\ 
The Why of
Dan BarreH Executive Editor 

a Misquote 
Editor: 
John Kloos 
According to the article con­

Advertising Manager 
cerning faculty reactions to the ACLU letter about military am­
nesty in today's Observer 04

Tuesday, November 27, 1973 
November), I "took issue with one 

Extra Lighting--Refrain from the hanging of Christmas lights in windows. Not only are they potentially dangerous, 
but they use up power. 
Lavatories--during the early hours of the day, try to leave the lights off in the hall lavatories and late at night, shut off the lights after you leave the facility. Hallway lights must remain on for security and safety reasons. 
These simple moves will help conserve the energy that Notre Dame has while the committee works at coming up with some more productive suggestions. 
In the midst of the latest calendar fight though, there is one move that the com­mittee must refrain from suggesting. Some schools already have made plans to lengthen the Christmas break by one week and then tack that week on to the end of the semester. Should the calendar announced by the university stand up to pressure, it would be ridiculous to shorten the summer earning period by yet another week with this plan. 
Jerry Lutkus 


aspect of the statement." In fact, I said the following to your reporter: "I can not subscribe to the statementas PUBLISHED." The remainder of the quote is correct, but constitutes my reason for declining fo subscribe to the entire statement. 
I enjoy the good fortune of belonging to an ecclesiastical tradition which has never seen the need to develop a "just war" theory, and hence I am relieved of the obligation to make scholastic distinctions between "just" and "unjust" wars. According to St. Basil, every war is a horror, a sin, and a crime against God and men. Basil teaches that it is a Christian's obligation, according to the law of love, to do everything in his power to prevent war' and that insofar as he fails to do this, he is culpable. 
However, Basil also points out that the law of love obliges one to accept his responsibility to serve his people and his nation, even inwar. If Christians do fail in their primary obligation to keep the peace, that failure does not automatically excuse them from participating in the military af­fairs of the civil society to which they belong. 
Because the law of love may be interpreted differently in different existential circumstances, the individt"ll Christian who finds himself in a war can react in dif­ferent ways. Some, appealing to conscience, may refuse to serve; but in doing so, they should know that civil disobedience may incur legal sanction. While the civil society may grant amnesty, it is under no obligation to do so. The person who appeals to conscience must therefore be prepared to accept the legal consequences. 
Others, also moved by con­science, may decide that the law of love obliges them to take part in the military adventures of their nation or people. Not every soldier who believes his service contributes to the maintenance of political order, equity, and peace is a 
hypocrite.  The  Byzantine  
"Calendar of Saints,"  unlike that  
of the Roman Church  includes a  

number of soldiers-George, Dimitrious, Boris and Gleb, Prince Vladimir, even Constantine; and, unlike Francis or Ignatius, they were canonized for being soldiers, not because they "got religious," dropped out of the army, and became clerics. Even Jesus went out ofHis way to cure a soldier's child, and even He urged soldiers to do an honest job and earn their pay. One of the Scriptural saints most extolled in Eastern hagiograpy was the Roman army Cft~ti<U:j "'l:iei Stood at the foot Of the 
ta~r_ry trudeau 

~
........................................, 
Cross and who perceived Who 
Jesus was. 
A simplistic appeal to "justice" 
may achieve al\mesty for those 
whoavoided the Vietnam horror­
-inch.Jding those who avoided it for 
unjust reasons--while doing in­
justice to those who, for con­
science's sake, served their 
country in Vietnam. The issue is 
not as easily decided as the ACLU 
statement seems to suggest. 
Further, if different individuals 
choose to serve or decline to serve 
for conscience's sake, so too some 
individuals may avoid service for 
reasons that are less that 
adequate. Whether we like it or 
not, some people are immature, 
some are selfish, some are 
irresponsible, and some are 
cowards. If they are not to become 
slobberysentimentalitites suffused 
with a vaguely romantic 
humanism, "Christian com­
passion" and the nature sense of 
justice demand a commitment to 
responsibility. In some situations, 
it maybe compassionate to 
challenge someone who is avoiding 
responsiblity with an invitation to 
risk his neck 
The Eastern Christian tradition 
asserts that all war is sinful, and 
every man is a sinner. The contest 
of waris '"' sinful circumstance in 
which any man may find himself; 
and, being a sinner, every man's 
response to conscience and the law 
of love is bound to be ambigious. It 
is easy to condemn the sin, war. It 
is not so easy, however, to tell 
which man's response to a given 
situation of war is responsible and 
loving; it is not so easy to tell the 
good guys from the bad guys. 
Perhaps we should leave such 
judgement to the Saviour Who 
loves us all. 
I'm sorry if this letter, in 
tandem with my call for im­
peachment, will confuse those who 
like to make neat, clear-cut 
distinctions between "liberals" 
and "conservatives," but part of 
ahistory teacher's job is to confuse 
people. I'm sorry, too for 
suggesting that the quality of your 
reporting could be improved, but 
after a bad string of typographical 
errors and mildly misleading 
misquotations my teacher's 
compuslive need to grade 
something seems to have surfaced. 
Bit even this can be done with 
compassion, inhopes that the 
Observer's reporting can become 
as careful and subtle as a 
University publication's should be. 
Cordially, 
Bob Kerby 


Reaction 
We were quite amazed and a bit disturbed with Pat Small's review of the Graham Nash -David Crosby concert which appeared in Monday's Observer. 
His comments about David Crosby "jumping around to show how involved he was" and "inane rap" made us wonder : If you don't enjoy watching musicians who enjoy their music and like to perform it for others, then why don't you stay home and listen to records? 
Kevin Hamel 
Jim Jennewein 
201 Dillon Hall 

130! .. {JI~
WGU, WIIAT'5 
the observer 

:I JUST HOP& fJS TO? HOW 
fAJ& 51/t/...
THAT BRING 

WG OON'T R.t/N !1ANY /...GFT 
60TA 
Ot/T OF UBERA/...5.

tuAY5 TO NO 
STAFF BOX 

10 HOfJSG? ABOfJT. .. 
GO YGT.. KIOO!NG. 
I

I !30. 
YEAH. Night Editor: Robert Baker

I 
I 
Ass't Night Editor: Tim O'Reiley
I 
\ Layout: Marlene Zloza, .. Tom O'Neil Day Editor: Tom Bundy Compugraphic: Tom Wich 
Typists: Barb Norcross, Connie Fourre, Howard 
Halle, Mary Romer 
Sports: Greg Corgan and Paggy Lawlor 
Copy Editor: Marlene Zloza 
Pictures: Jerome 
Night Controller: John Flannigan 
----------~­
Tuesday1 November 27I 1973 tne observer 

the perils of student watching 
"Student watching" is the name of the game these days. In recent months several articles about college students have sur­faced in various publications. Generalizations flow swiftly onto the page as the authors give their impressions of today's students and contrast them with their older brothers and sisters of a few years ago.
Perhaps it is the need to generalize that makes "student watching" a hazardous game. Witness an article by a Notre Dame faculty member which appeared about a year ago in Thought , a quarterly published at Fordham. Though the article does not specifically mention Notre Dame, Robert H. Vasoli, associate professor of sociology and anthropology, was writing about Notre Dame students. His primary conclusion is sobering; Catholicism is a "waning force" on this campus.
Moreover, Vasoli does not simply find Catholicism on the wane here. He finds the student body practically awash with sin. Here the cool social scientist is replaced by the polemicist who is angry about what he sees or thinks he sees. The result, I think, is a mixed bag -some helpful insights and some glaring overstatements. Vasoli ac­tually wrote the substance of the article two years ago. The insights have held up well · with the passage of the months but the overstatements appear more extreme and also have a curiously dated appearance. My favorite is the following: 
"Thus on the campus I know best none but the victims of theft seem bothered by its high incidence. Student government heads and campus editors, whose moral in­dignation is always at the ready, seem af­flicted with silence when lewd propositions 
are shouted from residence hall windows to young female passersby, when the student cheering section routinely directs obscene chants at visiting athletes and game of­ficials, when hundreds of male students publicly and systematically lay lecherous hands on the intimate parts of the bodies of unwilling and hysterical coeds, when sodden students vomit in chapel during midnight Mass and revel in their handiwork, when students act as though their room and board fees entitle them to share their quarters with overnight guests of the opposite sex, when dozens of students secure vacation money by kiting checks at the bursar's office, or when dishonesty in academic work approaches epidemic proportions." 
Well, all the things mentioned by Vasoli regrettably have happened at Notre Dame (though I wonder a bit about students reveling in their vomit at midnight Mass.) But to suggest that this comes within miles of describing the campus scene seems totally unreal to me. In fact, Vasoli admits in the next paragraph that in terms of "statistical modalities," the examples are hardly typical. But just when he appears to be backing off from his words he suggests darkly that "these and similar aberrant practices are not as bizarre as we would like to believe." 
Vasoli's view of the campus is certainly not mine. I think that student life around here is not nearly so hopeless as he ap­parently finds it. Catholicism on the wane? I'm not at all sure this is the case. Take the three signs he mentions: 
Decreasing Mass attendance: Yes, but a great interest in many Masses which are celebrated each weekend, and far more involvement than in the past. 
Diminishing importance of theology: I doubt it. I see far more interest in theological questions and a rush to sign up for a num her of popular and significant courses. 
Fewer Religious on campus: True in terms of numbers, I guess, but I think there's a stronger rapport with students than in the days when the priests were authority figures who flicked off the lights at ll p.m. and presided over morning checks. 
Having rejected his pessimistic view, however, I support some of his points. For example, he takes as hos own a charac­terization of students in this nation as strong on "macro-morality" (commitment to grandiose causes) at the expense of their " micro-morality" (personal ethics). 
"Thus," he writes, "although students overwhelmingly pay lip service to im­provement of environment, on a local level they themselves are chiefly responsible for the cam pus resembling an ecological disaster area. They are consummate lit­terbugs, and are capable of remarkable indifference to the cause of environmental quality when, for example, vast portions of the campus are asphalted for student parking. For many, the use of paved walks comes under the strictest taboo; they delight in blazing new trails on the campus greesward when moving from one building to another. And the alarming increase in vandalism of school property does not seem to jog their collective conscience." 
Overstated or not, he has a point. In fact, I would go further. In the light of what has happened in the past few years (a return to apathy of the late '50's in the eyes of some student watchers) it's possible that students have lost their "macro-morality" while not 
fr. thomas mcna/1~ 
finding their "micro-morality." Thid 
World causes are not very popular anymor _ 
-if they ever were -and there is n; 
discernible rush to the aid of the poor an , 
underprivileged in our own land. If ther -~ 
has been no improvement in persoml 
ethics, we may have a classic case of m•. 
eating our cake and not having it either. 
ITEM: In the hall where I live, the pric 
tag for repairing vandalized elevatorsrun 
at least to several hundred dollars annual! 
and probably into the thousands. Th · 
vending machines also get a going-ove­
frequently enough, to the tune of about $25, 
during one month last winter. 
ITEM: If there is a decrease in the ir 
cidence of cheating around campus, 
escapes me. A faculty member recent! 
approached a member of campus ministr 
and suggested that the problem was s, 
severe it merited a full-fledged cow 
terattack. 
What I am suggesting is that the dif 
ficulties then and now may be traceable t. more universal causes than changing tims The endl~ss ability of all of us to mess thing: up occasiOnally; our capacity to be sinner: in tired and traditional ways but sinner• nevertheless. And all this compounded b) . the pre~sures of studies -and the pressure: of growmg up -on a campus which can b1 
impersonal. 
What I am saying, I suppose, is that ~hen is a need for balance which I don't find it Vasoli's article. He may be right when ht says that Catholicism is a waning influenct on campus. I am not convinced. Indeed am convinced that Notre Dame, despite it~ flaws, is a good place to be and that we h~vt some of the finest human being& arou,c here that one is apt to find. 

the cowboy and the cossack 
The Cowboy and the Cossack by Clair Huffacker Trident Press 

359 pp. Clair Huffaker is a rather curious man on the current literary scene: he's a romantic. Unlike the carefully-drawn anti-, non-and ullracharicatured-heroes of most modern fiction, Huffaker presents characters you'd expect to see on a movie screen of twenty years ago. And that can be a refreshing change in fiction. The story is an off-beat one: a cowboy outfit is assigned to take a 500-head herd across the wilds of Russia in the mid-1800's. An outlaw band of cossacks assist them as they make the 1,000-mile trek complete with adventures along the way. 
Huffaker says the story is true, only it happened in modern times; without, of course, the same incidents. Believe him if you want; it makes no difference. The story that has resulted is well worth it. 
But the best part again is that list of characters. If you ignore the rather card­hoard central character, Shad Northshield, (you say you've seen how many John Wayne movies? l and the just plain silly characters like "Old Keats" who are assigned the roles of symbols, you get into a very good range of personalities. 
The most fascinating one is the narrator. That may almost sound like cheating; naturally you're going to get to know a first­person narrator better than any other character (the book is in the form of a diary of one of the cowboys), but Levi Dougherty is simply one of the more convincting sketches of young manhood around. 
Now, you'd probably think that an author 
Little Bir:~ Screen 
Of the relatively few films this week, one is a remake of a classic, another a classic rerun, the rest your average fare. A new ., version of Mary Shelley's Frankenstein airs in two parts this week. Labelled Frankenstein: A True Story, this version has the monster turn out to be handsome but decay and disease change him into being ugly and evil. This is a totally new film so don't confuse it with the Frankenstein two-parter last January on "The ABC Wide World of Entertainn1ent." The new version (which stars Michael Sarrazin as the monster and Leonard Whiting, James Mason and David McCallum in other roles) will aire at nine Friday; on 16 and5 in Chicago but only on five on Saturday at nine since 16 will pre-empt part two to telecast the ND-Miami game at 8:15 (pre game show at 8:00). 
Truman Capote's blood chilling In Cold Blood reruns Friday also but on CBS at nine. Two men (Scott Wilson and Robert Blake) rob the Clutter family in SKansas of forty-three dollars and a radio and kill the family of four in one of the most powerful yet art­fully done violent scenes in films. You never see any blood or the shotgun pellets strike as 
a book review by joseph abel/ 
who'd give a character a background that included naming him after a pair of pants <Father wanted Levi; Mother wanted Strauss) is straining a bit, especially with the cornball parents-killed-during­and -Indian-raid beginnings. But Huffaker knows what he's doing. He has captured beautifully the personality of a young man Irying out his reins and is even a bit of a showoff. 
The best examples of that latter quality are the most effective in bringing out Levi's personality: digressions that "interpret" a dramatic scene (i.e., an exchange of looks; Levi will then tell what had led up to it and what was accomplished by itl. Though bothersome at first, the reader must remind himself that the format of the book is a diary of a young man. Such self-explanations are more natural than the more dramatic rendering of the scene. 
Admittedly, the book has its faults, m:.n) of them. The obvious paralleling tends tc bog down the action as Huffaker goes out o his way to give each cowboy a cossacl counterpart. His over-used foreshadowin~ and the "four-bit words" he places in thf mouths of rough cowhands also tend to ea away at the book's credibility. 
But these faults are more than com pensated for by the convincing nature anc diversity of the characters. The immense sprawling presence of Russia infiltratin{ everywhere is also impressive. 
The drawings don't really add anything t< the book (one is even contrary to tht description in the story), but are fairl) interesting. 
Nothing profound, but a good action story a large bit of romanticism and some of thf more realistic characters you'll see in E while. 


of a man-made monster 


and monstrous men 
~rt fer_raoti 

in many other films by t the impact and horror is still there. Filmed in black and white, the movie ends with the murderers being hung. John Forsythe plays the relentless police officer. 
Tonight, a realistic view of rape is por­trayed in the made-for-TV Cry Rape!. Featuring Andrea Marcovicci, Peter Cof­field, and Greg Mullavey, the film probes what the accused and accuser must go through and how the tolles are switched so that the victim undergoes a cross­examinstion in ythe trial calculated to destroy her credibility. It is strictly adult viewing. Itwill be telecast ayt nine-thirty on 22followingTheBillyGrahamCrusadewich airs at 8:30pm tonight through Thursday on 22 pre-empting regular programming. 
Two other specials tonight deserve note. At eight on 28 "A World Turned Upside Down" highlights the life of George Washington as he really was. And following that at nine on ABC is Friar's Club Roast of Miltin Berle featuring (in alphabetical order), Lucille Ball, Jack Benny, Chuck Connors, Jackie Cooper, Sammy Davis, Jr., Kirk Douglas, Michael Douglas, Redd Foxx, Jackie Gleason, Eyydie Gorme, Bob Hope, David Janssen, Alan King, Steve Lawrence, Jack Lemmon, Walter Matthau, Jan Murray, Carroll O'Connor, Don 'Rickles Bishop Sheen, and Renny Younghlan. Ho~ all these people will get on in an hour plus film clips and a tape of Sen. Edward K nedy is beyond me. 
Back to the movies, Outrage (not to be confu~ed with George C. Scott's Rage premieres tomorrow night on ABC. This made-for-TV fifilm has Robert Culp and Marlyn Mason terrorized by a teenage gang and what they do to stop it. As with In COld Blo~d._this is a true story although it sounds a bit like Straw Dogs in concept. Opposite that on NBC is a "Hallmark Hall of Fame" presentation, "Lisa, Bright and Dark" which stars Kay Lanz as ateenagersuffering from mental illness. She is a manic who has her friends and family (Anne Baxter and John Forsythe again) trying to save her fr?I_Il her happy and depressive periods. A1nng on the same station at eight tomorrow is "Winnie, the Pooh and the Blustery Day" and on 28 at eight Dick Clark hosts the first of a five part series on "The Rock and Roll Years." 
Thursday features two specials. At eigt on 28, Jacques Cousteau and his crew of th Calypso explore the Antarctic in "South t Fire and Ice." On CBS Playhouse 90 at nin Trever Howard and Martin Sheen star i1 "Catholics". Set in the future, this dram. concerns an Irish monastery's refusal t change from Latin to English in the Mas and the young emissary from Romesent t• enforce the change. 
"The ABC Sunday Night Movie" i! Prudence and the Pill with David Niven am Deborah Kerr, a real loser of a film abou bir_th control pills, mistresses, and mix-ups This comedy is so bad, even the director qui· half-way through its filming. George Sega and Alec Guinness star in The Quille1 ~emora_ndum at 11:15 Sunday night on 16. It Is a credible spy drama about the rise of new Nazis in present day Germany. Senta Berger supplies the love interest. 
Trivia Question: Name the enemy groups of the following: a) UNCLE, b) James Bond, c(Control. d) David Vincent. 
'SJapeAUI aqJ, (p 'SOV}I (;> 'aJpads ~q 'HSllHHJ. (R ~JaMsuv 


-------8----,he-observer
____Tuesd~y, November 21,1973 
Bulla Shed--lunch 
slates 'Digger' as this weeks guest 
Varsity Basketball Coach Digger Phelps will be the guest at this week's Bulla Shed luncheon on Wednesday afternoon. 
Coach Phelps, and perhaps some members of his family, will share ' lunch and answer questions with members of the ND-SMC com­munity. 
The luncheon will begin at 12 noon. Soup, submarine sand­wiches, chips and homemade cookies are on the menu. Only the first 50 people will be served lunch. 
Schaus appointed new student gov't treasurer, set to succeed Vorce 
Raymond M. Vorce III, the in­cumbent Student Government Treasurer, has appointed Michael 
J. Schnaus as his successor for the1974-75 school year. Schnaus, a junior accounting major from Jasper, Indiana, was chosen from a field of ten possible candidates. Under the guidance of Vorce, Schnaus is currently familiarizing himself with the office's functions in preparation for his expected takeover on the first of April of next year. 
Law prof Dutile reelected to law association, will 


rttend convention 
Dr. Fernand N. Dutile, Associate I 
professor of law at the University 
of Notre Dame, has been elected to 
a second term in the House of 
Delegates of the association of · 
American Law Schools, a 
Washing ton -based organization 
concerned with accreditation for 
curriculums and communications 
between schools. 
Dutile and Dr. Francis X. 
Beytagh, professor of law and 
chairman of the appointments and 
promotions committee and 
director of the the Summer Law 
Program in London, will attend the 
national meeting of the group in 
New Orleans during the last week 
of December. 
~D Dylanconcert 
cancelled due to 
conflict, reset for 

U. of Michigan 
The winter concert tour reaturing Bob Dylan and The Band will not make an appearance at Notre Dame. Because of an af­cernoon basketball game on february 2, the day in question, E"M Productions (the company :>wned by Bill Graham who is -unning the tour) decided that :here might not be enough set-up time for the show. This, and the tack of adequate staging material at the Convocation Center, con­vinced FM to hold the show at the \arger facility at the University of Michigan. 

Students interested in seeing the >how are advised that all tickets -, 
will be sold on a mail-order basis. Dates convenient to to South Bend include Chicago (early January), University of Dayton (Feb.l), University of Michigan (Feb.2), and Indiana University at Bloomington (Feb.3). Tickets go on sale December 3 and must be purchased from the hall where the 
•, event is to be held. • 
I I, I ', t '•
' . . ., ... ~ . ' 
•, I f I t I I • t 
I • 
<.'.f.,.it,..C.', '~'·l,4.·_.(_f I If I If'.' of.t f •.• • • • !' 
, , • ~ • 

·. \ • 9 l , ~ \· \,1 ,. '· '· ';:, ••••• 
t
,._ 
• • • , , , , ,. , , , " " ,.. ..-1 r .. r • t 
~-t~ .• .• • .• .... ~•,_• ""' '""'~~ .. • ~ • • .... • ~ (.o.t. 
•stJUas 








argo 
"Unique gifts from the marketplace of the world." 
CREATE A FANTASY TREE. Fanciful orna­ments from India. All sprinkled with trim, beads and diamond shaped mirrors. Ani­mals, bells, stars and more. Watch them twinkle ...... .49-.88 
_ 
~ t:~ 
-
® 
l,L: 


~ t lf-ot otl'!
"'* 
-
~ t H
oa,-:<1:<>­
H 
H 
~--,

o I -.. -)r :i .,..~~:at~-+-i-+-if-+-1-'+--Rt: 
~No,. 
~
i'iH
.,,_,==· 

...... ,, .. · . ··-· ....
ei'-;e::0 

CHEBRATE AN ORIENTAL GAME. Mah­)ongg! Elaborate Chinese game. Colorful playing tiles. Fits inside a handy leatherette traveling case. Pier 1-the place to please your favorite mandarin! · ·$2 9· 9 9 
Build a visual dimension. Make Christmas craftsy! Geometric thread design kits. Hypnotic patterns in brilliant .. color. Shades of Eastern myst1osm by Mandala. Kit includes frame, r.omes in three sizes, detailed 
instructions. Small, medium and large sizes. Weave holiday 
hangings from Pier 1! 

$4-$10 
Give Spain. 
TOTE HOliDAY SPIRITS IN GOATSKIN. Bota skin bags, handcrafted in Spain. Lined with latex. Encircled with rope so they're easy to tote. Fill them with wine for your holiday outings .............. $4.99 
Underground 
THE STORE FOR THAT 
SPECIAL GIFT! 

-Underground Reflections The Glass Blowing Shop where the unusual is commonplace 
-Clay Connection Handcrafted pottery. Everything from hanging planters to wine goblets. Each piece is unique. 
-Christmas Decorations from around the world 
IGO UNDERGROUND TODAY 

MEASURE YOUR PLEASURE. A yard of cheese spreads bound to bring mile wide smiles. 36"x2". Imported from the world over. Nibble down to the last inch. Compliments of Pier 1! ....... $4.50 

100 Center Complex Mishawaka 
In the Old Kamm's Brewery 

LONDON, PARIS, ANTWERP, ROTTERDAM, SYDNEY. MElBOURNE, TORbNTO, MONTREAl, VANCOUVER, NEW YORK, BOSTON, MIAMI, PHILIDELPHIA, CHICAGO, DETROIT, PITTSBURGH, HOUSTON, DAllAS, PHOENIX. SAN FRANCISCO SFATT! f L(l~ AN(';Hf.<; 
I 

~. 'I I ' 

Tuesday, November 27, 1973 .· th~ observ&r 
'·' 9 

Cites Administration's record 
Connally supports Nixon in ACC speech 
Former Gov. John Connally of Texas told a packed throng last Tuesday night at the ACC that he had "no regrets at all" about switching from the Democratic to the Republican Party earlier this year. 
Connally, speaking beofre some 1300 people at the Michiana Republican Rally, asked the people to "analyze what has oc­curred in the last five years" to see why he has no regrets. 
He credited the Nixon Ad­
ministration with ending "the 
longest war that this nation has 
ever fought"; bring US troops 
back fron1 overseas; opening 
communications with China; and 
entering into a detente with 
Russia. · 
"No American president in this 
century has done so much for this 
country in the area of foreign af­
fairs," said Connally. 
To defend Nixon's policies on the 
"Home Front" Connally pointed to 
a 4.5 percent unemployment rate, 
the "lowest peacetime percentage 
in over a decade." Connally also 
noted that the Nixon Ad­
ministration's move to devalue the 
dollar was an action of "great 
courage." 
The rally, the first state 
fund-raising rally ever held in this 
are, heard the former governor of 
Texas call the American people 
"an extravagant people." He said that Americans are "wasteful" have "no argument" with the and to combat the energy crisis, policy of closing service stations the people are going to have to between 9pm Saturday and 12 enter into "an era of sacrifice." midnight Sunday, a policy which 
He recognized the fact that Sunday night, President Nixon put America makes up six percent of into effect. the world's population, yet uses 30 In concluding his address before percent of the world's resources. the $100 a plate dinner. Connally "We're just going to have to thrift called for a new politics to and save a little" he concluded. eliminate "the demagoguery of the 
Earlier in the day at a press past." Instead, he called the conference, Connally claimed to Republicans to present candidates of "capacity and integrity, vision 

and anticipation." 
Connally, now practicing law in Houston, has served as the Secretary of the Navy, was elected governor of Texas three times, served in the Nixon Administration as Secretary of the Treasury and was a special advisor to Nixon. 
He shared the dais, which was placed where the stage usually is for concerts in the South Dome of the ACC, with Republican National Chairman Goerge Bush who told the party members that their party was "more closely positioned to the heartbeat of the country." 
"We've got an awful lot to be grateful for," Bush said in reference to the Democratic Party. "The Democrats are hopelessly divided and they are seen by the voters as a party that's up against the wall." 
Also sitting at the head table were Govs. Otis Bowen of Indiana
Connally: No regrets about 
and William Millikin of Michigan;
switching parties. 
RENEW program announced for students living off-ca~npus 
by Jim Eder 
Staff Rt;porter 

Director of Off-Campus Housing Fr. James L. Shilts has announced that students searching for off­camous residences will be aided by a new, low-income, urban housing program called RENEW, Inc. 
RENEW, Inc. is a non-profit organization recently formed by several C.S.C. priests in South Bend to provide decent homes for low-income families by first leasing the homes to college students and then using the rental income to reduce the price for the subsequent buyer. 
RENEW, Inc. has compiled an extensive list of houses available for purchase. Interested students can select a house available for purchase. interested students can select 
RENEW, Inc. has compiled an extensive list of houses available 

Shilts: this program can provide students with suitable off campus housing and give them a hand in' 
'.helptng·provide·a-home ~needy family. 
for purchase. Interested students can select a house from this list, and RENEW will finalize the purchase, making a minimal down payment. and prepare the house for occupancy_. The house will then be rented to the students for the school year, after which it will be sold at a reduced price to a low­income family. 
The rental terms proposed by RENEW are similar to other South Bend rentals, according to Shilts. Although charges will vary with respect to the house being rented, the average cost will be ap­proximately $200 per month for four students and $250 per month for five students. 
Students interested in obtaining off-campus housing through this program should call the Off­Campus Residence Office at 8491 which will provide more in­formation and contact RENEW for them. 
"I feel this project is an ad­vantageous one for the students and for the South Bend com­munity," said Shilts. "The lack of low-cost housing is becoming a very serious problem in South Bend. Through this program the students can not only obtain suitable off-campus housing, but they can also have a hand in helping provide a home for a needy family." 
University of Notre Dame Glee Club 
in concert 




Wednesday, Nov. 28, 1973 Sacred Heart Church 
. 

Admission: Free Time: 8:15 pm 
Indianapolis Mayor Richard Lugar, David K. Wlson, chairman of the Republican National Finance Committee, and many of the state party officials. All the party leaders were introduced with the Notre Dame Victory March playing in the background. 
At the press con­ference, Connally made it clear that he is not a candidate for 
the presidency in 1976, saying that he is happy practicing law in Houston and in his spare time farming, ranching and playing with his grandchildren. 
He said that it will take con­siderable time for the people of this country to regain their faith in politicians, but he pointed out that the same lack of faith also is directed toward the media. 
THE BABY MAKER 
"An Unconventional Movie" 
-Time Magazine 

starring Barbara Hershey 
Engineering Auditorium, Tues, Nov. 27 and Wed, Nov. 28 8 & 10 pm $1.00 



Price ShatteringSale 
~·iB Value Now Only 



J2,_,, 

'\t(;i}~ 
\_I 

y MEMQREXRecord1ngTape
~eproduct1on so true 11 can shatter glass. 
NOW AVAILABLE AT HE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOK STOR~ 
. ·--.....•.• e·a rly'seatirig. cidvis.ecf ~ ............... 
·r.~~~-~-t~~~~~~~:. 
·.____________________________J 
'I :·-i?:'''t.n•••••••a.re-··: 
: WITH COUPON :
Il FULL_ EIIGIIE TUllE-UP l 
.~1.

!~i}2o9sl
l : '~ -----~ : I
. : ANY 6 CYL . U. 5. AUTO : , ADO 54 FORB CYL. CARS., 
: ~~~L~~NE~· P~~~~ ,5 ~0~~~~ :: 
: CONDENSER, CHECK 1 
: ~~~~~CET~~:a~~~~;~R ·-::~·····-············:'(
VALUABLE COUPON 
WITH COUPON 
FROIITEIIDa
ALIGIIIEIIT ~ 
MOST 
-
AMERICAN ~ 
CARS 
PARTS EXTRA 
IF NEEDED 

,...................... . 
• ·tZ.S¥Ui.!;i!¥5.1UIQ·P··. I 
WITH COUPON : 
BRAKE RELIIIIG :
. 
EXCEPT DISC : ~ BRAKES AND : 
....-~-FOREIGN CARS: 

$2995 ~ 
:
.
.
INCLUDES FULL 
.
INSPECTION, 
FLUID AND CLEAN. 

'::WI·~sm;r · · ·----:=· 1 
'''· '·"!tf-' :
WITH COUPON ~: 
SHOCK 
·pp 
SALE 
uv 


• 
• 


Snow Recaps 
$ 2 2 9 5 560-15 
(plus F.E.T.) 

Premium 4 Ply Nylon 



Snow Tires 
F78-14 Blackwalls start as low as 
$1695 
(pous F.E.T.) 



20% OFF 
on all tail pipes, exhaust pipes, and mufflers. 
Discount Tire Service 50595 U.S. 31 North 272-1023 
OPEN DAILY Ttt '6'. I ...... ' 
• • • • • 4 

SATURDAY TIL 4 
Tuesday, November 27, 1973,, , , 
0. the observer 
'Boston Strangler'stabbedtodeath 
WALPOLE, Mass. (UPI) ­\.lbert H. DeSalvo, the self­>roclaimed Boston Strangler vho confessed to a series of sex nurders, then retracted the :onfession and was never >rought to trial, was found ;lain at Walpole State Prison VIonday. 
DeSalvo, who admitted to ~rimes that terrified much of Boston in the early 1960's, had :>een stabbed 16 times, includ­:ng at least six wounds in the 1eart. 
Medical Examiner Nolton 3igelow said the wounds were 
•ery small and appeared to 1ave been made with some type of surgical instrument. DeSalvo's body was found in the prison hospital cellblock during a morning inmate count. 
The 42-year-old former handyman had been working as a hospital orderly and was confined in the ward alone. 
Bigelow said it appeared DeSalvo had been dead for "up to 10 hours." He was known to have talked with another inmate as late as 9:30 p.m. Sunday night. 
The pajama-clad body was found about 7 a.m. by a guard making an inmate count. When DeSalvo failed to get up from his bed as required, the guard 

ana another officer entered the 
cell and found he was dead. 

No weapon had been found by late afternoon and prison officias said they had no suspects. 
DeSalvo's nurder was the 12th violent death at the prison during the past two years, 
Norfolk County District At­tornes George Burke said DeSalvo had been. dealing in drugs at Walpole "for a good period of time," but said there was no "solid" connection between those activities and his death. Burke said DeSalvo had been warned repeatedly to quit and may have done so in recent months. 
of $1 million for release of son 
ROME CUPI) -The mother 
J. Paul Getty III, accusing her 
;on's billionaire grandfather of 
'loveless, arid solitude" for ·efusing to pay a kidnaper's ·ansom, Monday offered $1 11illion for the boy's return. 
In an open letter to the cidnapers, who claim to hold toung Getty captive and have ;ent what purports to be his ·ight ear to a Rome newspaper, \1rs. Gail Harris begged the 1cceptance of the money and 
:he return of her 17-year-old ;on. She said her former husband, 
J. Paul Getty II, had agreed to give her the $1 million provided she turn custody of her other three children over to him. 
"I have accepted to save Paul," she said. 
Mrs. Harris said she could not meet the kidnapers' de­mands of $3.4 million ransom because the boy's grandfather, oil billionare J. Paul Getty, has refused to contribute. Getty has claimed it would endanger his other grandchildren. 
"There are hearts like ~hose of Paul's grandfather and father, unhappy because they are petrified and not warmed 


St. Mary's students 
by love. I beg you to accept the sum offered. It will be delivered within a few hours if you accept now," she wrote. 
"We have spoken on the telephone at length and always in your voice I heard surprise that the grandfather had not been moved by Paul's fate. You never believed me, although it is true. 
"The grandfather has re­mained fixed in his loveless, old man's arid solitude, but the father has finally accepted to pay a ransom of $1 million under the conditions you imposed, that is renouncing simultaneous exchange." 

fined for 

be~~~. und~~,..'!~~. ~E:., ~!!:.~.".e~,::!.
Y ac D Aurora saying it was super easy getting 
Staff Reporter into the area bars. So the governor , Friday, November 16 and got on the ABC. So they made a ~~turday, No~ember 17, the In-routine check." h~n~ Alcohohc Beverage. Com-One underage St. Mary's student msswn <ABC) checked m .on in the Library was detected by the ;everal ?f. the local bars, resultmg agents. She admitted being under n th~ fmmg of two underage St. 21 when approached, and thus went \1ary s students. Amoqg the bars to court where she was fined ~isite~ were t~e Library, Nickies, tw~nty nine dollars for "entering a ;or~y s, the Pizza Palace and the tavern" _ a misdemeanor. The ,em or Ba.r· . Library's license is not jeopar-
Accordmg to RICk Kanser • dized as a result according to nanager of the Library, "Sup-Kanser >osedly, a concerned citizen from · 
in Nickies was taken to the police station where she was told to be in court the next day. She was fined thirty four dollars. In addition, two girls underl8 were also found and taken to the station and released. "Onewas the sister of one of the bar employees,'' said Kanser. Nickies manager was 
unavailable for comment. 

The ABC agents found no one in 
the Senior Bar without proper 
identification, according to bar­
tender Chuck Burns. 

Student poll at St. Mary's results in 
new 'sandwich line' lor 
by Gary Allieta Staff Reporter 
One major change has been macted at the St. Mary's dining 1all due to the results of a poll aken Nov. L According to ~rawford Caswell, director of the lining hall, one of the three lines 1enceforth will be designated as a 'sandwich line" at every lunch md dinner. 
Caswell said that due to student ·esponse,' one line will contain only ;andwiches, plus the main :election for the meal, to offer ;tudents an alternative to the ·egular menu. Such a line had >een offered in previous years, but 11as cut out at the beginning of this rear due to rising luncheon meat >rices. Caswell noted that the student poll 1as been a regular practice of Saga <'oods. "We've been doing it twice 1 year for the last 16 to 18 years," 1e added. "It's the method we use 
o get student opinion." 
Caswell feels. t,h~t ,the ,s~mpling s ihdica,ti.ve of the studeat .body
eeling. One,of the reasons is that distributed, 62 were returned, or about 56 per cent. This compares with about 55 per cent of the students who voted on the lettuce boycott. He felt the polls showed that "the feeling is ttiat everything is not exactly as last year." 
Last year, students dined on steak every Saturday evening and received unlimited second helpings at all other meals. 
Many students have indicated that they want to meet with Caswell. He said that he has contacted them, but this far none have returned his call. The 


dining hall. 

director felt that possibly :he formality of an office meeting would be too inhibitive so he has also agreed to meet with groups in their dorms. 
Some of the results of the poll show that students like the variety and flavor of salads and enjoy the special meals the food service prepares. Steak tops the list of favorite foods. Among the disappointments are the flavor of the main dishes and food freshness. Students prefer break­fast to any other meal and savor lunch the least. 
Hairstyling .•. with style 
+Award Winning Stylists +Unique Atmosphere 
+ Roffler Styling and Products 

First Floor, 100 Center 
·.• II 
.,

· · · ·Mishawaka, Indiana 
1ut of .. ~~~-_ -~u_e_s~i-o~~~~~~s--~~-----A·p·p·o-in•t•m-e.n.ts_P_r_e_fe_r_e_d_,_2s_s_-_6s_o_o____... 
Authorities knew of no specific threats against DeSal­vo, but a Corrections Depart­ment spokesman, John Maclean, said he had his "ups and downs with the prison population." 
MacLean said DeSalvo was "very helpful at times after disturbances keeping things cool and helping clean up cell blocks." 
No one was ever brought to trial in the series of Boston area strangling deaths and the office of Attorney General Robert H. Quinn said Monday the case_ is still open. A spokesman for Quinn said however, "There has been n~ new information on it in years." 
HAND CRAFTED JEWELRY for Christmas 
I design and make all pieces to order: sterling, gold, 
copper, brass plus stones. 
Jim Tomcik 
7469 8pm -llpm Weekdays 
Also specia I order wedding rings. 


NOW AVAILABLE AT THE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOK STORE 
Where do MONYmen come from? 
From many walks of life, like graduating from N. D. 

"Rocky" Bleier graduated from Notre Dame in 1968 and immediately joined the Pittsburgh. Steelers. In 1969, he was drafted into the Army and served a tour in VietNam, receiving a bronze star and a purple heart. After rejoining the Steelers in 1970, he decided to develop himself in a business that offered in· 
dependence and the opportunity for unlimited income. He loined the MONY sales team in 1971. He has developed skills in business insurance planning, personal estate planning and the PRIME college market. 
Where do MONY men go? 


As far as their own ability and initiative take them. 
W(1at "Rocky" B Ieier has done is above average. But the opportunities are still there. It's up to you. If you have what it takes, we have the career.:both in sales, and sales management. The insurance industry is growing and at MONY we've branched into mutual funds and variable annuities. 
. '• '.,.' .,. .,. ~ ......­
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS: 
Sound interesting? Then contact Jack Mays, manager, South 
Bend, 515 St. Joseph Bank Building. Phone 233-3104 or interview with us on campus Oct. 
lOth or Dec. 6th. 



M0NY
MUTUAL OF NEW VORK 
"' ~
•}he Mu1uar Lde Ins· Q)-. Compal'l)' 01 New York 
DEC. 6 

-~-----------· 
.' 


th&' obse~ver 1 1 
leers resume skid: lose 5-3, 6-5 
by Vic Dorr Sports Editor 

Notre Dame's highly-touted ice hockey team, picked second in the nation in several pre-season polls but struggling after six con­secutive WCHA outings, appeared ready to make a move. 
The Irish sextet had ended Wisconsin's 13 game win skein and snapped its own three-game losing streak six days earlier with a 6-4 victory, and on Friday night took the ACC ice for the first game of a weekend set with Colorado College. 
Coach Jeff Sauer's Tigers, last year's WCHA cellar-dwellers, had beaten Notre Dame only once since early January of 1971, and had lost five games in a row to Lefty Smith's charges. And, despite being outscored 32-18 in last year's four meetings the CC coach ob­served atleast once during the 1973 season that "they (the Irish) still aren't playing as well as they're capable." 
The incentives and conditions were all there for Notre Dame to make its move back to WCHA prominence, and when the weekend series ended late Saturday night, one teani had indeed made a move. 
But that team didn't belong to coach Lefty Smith. 
It belonged to Jeff Sauer, the CC 
coach who, during the course of the 
weekend, never had time to 
discuss Notre Dame's capabilities. 
For after a 5-3, 6-5 away-from­
home sweep, the CC mentor was 
too busy praising his own club. 
"This was a big win for us," 
beamed Sauer after Friday night's 
triumph. "Notre Dame beat us 
four times last year, but now we 
know we're going home at least a 
.500 team. Colorado College hasn't 
been winning on the road in the 
past, but this is three in a row for 
us." 
Sauer's Tigers made it "three in 
a row" on the road by following a 
simple first-game formula. They 
handed the Irish an overdose of 
Doug Palazzari, watched as Notre 
Dame failed on several tries at 
returning the favor, and then 
battled gamely when they had to 
enroute to the 5-3 decision. 
Palazzari, a pocket-sized center 
who earned All-American laurels 
as a sophomore, scored one goal 
and was credited with four assists 
on Friday night. His goal--it came 
with 2:52 gone in the first period-­
was CC's first of the night, and it 
erased ND's only lead of the 
evening. 
Freshman Brian Walsh tallied 
just 31 seconds into the game to 
give the Irish a 1-Q lead, but 
Palazzari answered with his 
equalizer and then assisted on two 
other first period goals to give thed 
Tigers a 3-1 lead after the first 15 
minutes. 
The opening period was shor­
tened for five minutes because of a 
slashed forehead suffered by Dan 
Griffin, CC's substitute goalie 
<regular goal tender Ed Mio had been knocked groggy early in the period), and the only score during the elongated second stanza belonged to Irish winger Larry Israelson, who deflected Ray DeLorenzi's shot past Griffin at 
11:48 to pull the Irish to within one at 3-2. 
Colorado's Bryan Pye took a pass from Palazzari and beat Irish goalie Mark Kronholm for the fourth Tiger goal and second power play score of the night at 
4:28 of the final frame, and Steve Sertich scored on an open not with nine seconds remaining to wrap up the decision for CC. 
The Irish did sandwich one goal between the Tigers' two fourth period tallies Ian Williams ram­med home a power play breakaway at 18:55, but it was missed opportunities--especially in the first period--which had the Irish coach shaking his head af­terwards. 
"We're just not putting the puck in the net," he moaned, "for the number of chances we're getting." 
Smith's charges did put the puck into the net on Saturday night. They scored five times during the first half of the game, and led the Tigers 5-Q at the midway point of the second period. 
As on Friday night, the Irish jumped into a quick first-period lead. Ian Williams scored at 1:26 when Paul Clarke's low liner into a goal mouth crowd hit Brian Walsh and then carened off Williams and into the net. Five minutes later, Steve Curry and Ray DeLorenzi combined for ND's second score. 
The two broke in alone on CC's Griffin and played a bit of give­and-go until Curry beat the Tiger netminder with a shot from left­hand side. 
Larry Israelson and Ray DeLorenzi teamed up for the next three Irish goals, all of them coming during the second period. Israelson made it 3-Q at 6:22, when he wheeled around the net with a pass from DeLorenzi and stuffed the puck past Griffin. 
The two wings assumed the same roles at 8:35, when DeLorenzi fed Israelson at the Goal-mouth, and ND led, 4-0. Thirty seven seconds later Israelson passed to DeLorenzi at the CC blue line, and the "Hawk" whipped a quick wrist shot past Griffin for Notre Dame fifth and final score. 
After that the game was one of official whistles and a methodical CC comeback. 
Both Williams and Brian Walsh 
were sitting out minors and 



OBSERVER. 
SPORTS 

All Observer staff members 
wishing to hold an intern position for the Spring Semester should contact Jerry Lutkus immediately. 
misconduct penalties when Bryan Pye drove a loose puck past Kronholm at 10:22 of the second period. 
Then, just 59 seconds into the final frame, Steve Sertich's long slap shot bounced off Kronhom 's chest, out of his glove and skipped over the goal-line for the Tigers' second score. At 6:37 Sertich led the Tigers on a three-on-one break, and hit Jim Mitchell with a lead pass which led to CC's third con­secutive goal. 
Just over a minute later Palazzari's line returned to the ice, and the little center fired a two­on-one pass to Mike Hiefield, who beat Kronholm to make it 5-4. Colorado's Pat Lawson tied the game with a power play goal at 
10:42 just nine seconds before the Irish penalty expired. 
Both teams missed game­winning opportunities during the next several minutes. Kronholm foiled a Sertich breakaway with a sparkling save latein the period, and the Irish missed four golden chances early in the overtime 
. fram. Pat Conroy just missed with a high rebound shot, and then Walsh, Williams, and Eddie Bumbacco all came close on the succeeding line shift. 
But in the end it was Palazzari who didn't miss on his golden opportunity. With Notre Dame crippled by twin penalties and a 5­on-3 disadvanatge, Sertich, Pye, and Palazzari broke in on Kronholm with 3: 14 left in the extra period. 
Sertich ferl Pye on the three on two break, and then Palazzari broke down the center, took Pye's pass, and flipped it into the open side of the net. Palazzari 's OT goal, possibly the biggest of the season for the rebounding Tigers, raised CC's record to 5-3 and dropped Notre Darne's to 2-5-1. 
The Performing Arts Series presents .... THE JULLIARD STRING QUARTET 
Wed. Dec. 5 8:00pm O'Laughlin Auditorium 
Admission: $3.50, Students -$2.00 Reservations: 4176; 239 Moreau Hall 
I 
I-­

w ND 
SMC 

THEATRE 
SEASON 1973-74 
RESERVATIONS 284-4176 Bus. Hrs. 283-7054 Show Nites 
Student -Faculty ND-5MC Staff 
$150 

Thieves' Carnival 
Jean Anouilh's merry masquerade Dec. 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 at 8:30p.m. Washington Hall (Notre Dame) 


CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 
Help wanted for Saga Food Service. Apply at office , Dining Hall SMC. 
Anyone to haul sofa safely at holidays or end semester to Sanford, N.C.? Mrs. Apt 4317. 
Need 1or 2 tix to Thurs. Nov. 29 WHO concert in Chicago. Call ~1~ . 
FOR SALE 
MEERSCHAUM PIPES! Exceptional values, per· son a I ized service. Catalog. PMP Co., Box 444, Gaither­sburg, Md. 20760. 
FOR RENT 
4 BR house, recreation room, study, fireplace. Wall to wall carpet, just rennovated, 
complete! y  furnished.  For  
grad  students  only.  Jan  
semester  or  immediate  oc·  

cupation. AI Brasseur 289-2461. Rooms !40 mo. Ride. 233-1329. 
NOTICES 
Morrrissey Loan Fund can loan 
up to !150 at 1per cent interest , 
1 day waiting period. Basement of La-Fortune. 11:15­
12:1'5 Mon·. ·Fri.. 

'I 
' • ' ~ f ... ' \ ' "' ( 
' • ' "' • ~ ' .. " t J t 
OVERSEAS JOBS-Austrailia, Europe, S. America, Africa. Students all professions and occupations $700 to $3000 . 
Expenses paid , overtime, sightseeing. Free information. Write TRANS WORLD 
RESEARCH, Dept. F3, PO Box 603, Corte Madera, Ca. 94925. 
OFF CAMPUS STUDENTS! GIGANTIC SNATCH! Free! Outside the off campus office­Mrdi Gras rafffle packets. Take any one, unless you m7088 have your own. Help the Master of Middle Earth sell raffle tickets. ! 2 commission on each book. 
Nice Ci1ristmas box stet-good books for all. Pandora's Boods 
Typing -experienced in theses, dissertations, essays, term papers. Call 232-9061. 
Typing Done: theses, papers, etc. Fast. Call Gloria 234-9765. 
If you have sex, you may have gonnorhea, syphiilis, of both. If in doubt, check it out! Call284­9781 or come 9th floor county bldg. Mon. thru Fri 8 am to 3 pm . Vree-No appointments, confidential, bring sa friend too. 
PERSONALS ''DEAR ERIE:· love, Happy· l~ttr.. . '.' mlchelob 

' ·-------------------­

l_~------------------------------------------------------~--------------------~ttiUw~~LLLLLLL'L'L'L'L'L'L'L'L'~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·------------------------~ 
..--------~~~---­


'·-~--=..!thc.!.e=--.=::O:.:b:..:s:..:e::=...:....rv.:..=e:..:.r__T_u_e_s_da...:y:..._,_N_o_v_e_m_b_e_r_27_,_,_97_3__ 

:rish win ninth. head for Miami 
by Greg Corgan 

. aC-TV called it a college :ball extravaganza, and cer­,Jy there was no better phrase iescribe this past Thursday, lay, and Saturday when nine of the top ten teams in the .on appeared on national 
·vision. 

·Jectacular it was, and, for the 1, things couldn't have turned 
better. For if Coach Ara ··seghian and his charges get by :>mi, and Alabama downs :mrn, the Sugar Bowl should :1 out to be the battle for the JOnal championship. 
'' course the keys to this setup -e Notre Dame's 48-15 win over Air Force, and Alabama's 21-j' ory over L.S.U. But for the · '1, as well as for the Crimson c, Michigan and Ohio State's 10­temay have been just what the !or ordered. Of the major ·eges, only Penn State, Jama, Miami of Ohio, and ·re Dame now have un­mished records, and since ND 1 'Bama will meet on New J.r's Eve, the winner should :-rge as national champ. Things ~il to be falling nicely into place. 
Jt to keep things so "nice" the h had to start out with a :unding win on Thanksgiving ; , and indeed they did. In -~ng its ninth win of the season re Dame picked up 527 total ds, scored 48 points and held toss. Moments later Rich Haynie 
·~alcons high-powered passsing dropped back to pass, was hit by t;:k to a mere 15 points, defensive end Jim Stock, fumbled, 1ugh that 15 is the highest and Stock recovered the ball on the t production the Irish defense Air Force 11. It took only one play i:lllowed all year. for Eric Penick to skirt left end for the score giving the Irish an early
he game was virtually out of 
14-Q lead.

l:h as the first quarter ended ., the Irish sporting a 28-o lead. 
Later in the period Wayne

ilar to Pittsburgh a couple of 
Bullock drove in from eight yards

'ks ago, ND took advantage of 
out and Penick added his second

ly mistakes by the Air Force 
touchdown around left end this

turned them into quick scores. 
time from four yards out to give ·inutes after the opening kickoff Notre Dame its commanding 28-Q <:.e Townsend recovered a first quarter lead. :ble by Falcon Bob Farr on the :e Dame 46 and Tom Clements As it turned out this was too .ed the windfall into ND's first much too soon for Falcon coach ;n he hit All-American tight end Ben Martin and his airmen to >e Casper witha 14 yard scoring handle. "Notre Dame is awfully 


OBSERVER 
SPORTS 
Wrestlers open tonight 
start at 118 and 126 respectively.

ur freshmen will be in the Two more freshmen who will starting lineup tonight as the Irish are Chip Habig at 177
:tling team opens it s 1973-74 ana John 
Zintn1aster at 190.

:m hosting Chicago State in the vocation Center's Auxiliary 
B-ball tickets 

nasium. rhe match will mark the debut restling coach of Fred Pechek distributed 
returns to his alma mater ten Notre Dame and St. Mary'ss after graduation. 
students who purchased season 1e leading returnee for Notre basketball tickets may pick them 1e is senior Al "Ace" .. Rocek up at the box office, second floor of 
:> will be wrestling at the Athletic and Convocation 
ryweight tonight. Last year Center, either today or tomorrow ~k won 22 matches to up his 
from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. 

·er total to 35. He needs just 161, ; to break the All-Time Career Notre Dame upperclassmen, ·k held by Ken Ryan. Other grad students, lawyers, and ;tanding returnees include married students must present 1s Dave Boyer at V' and John their ID cards and the receipt 1d at 167. issued when the season package ~wcomers will pl1> 1 an im­was paid for at the ticket office. :.ant role in Notre D<-rne'schance 
success this sea n. Skip 
Notre Dame freshmen and St. tdragon and Dan I 'ternan a Mary's students who ordered by Of promisi; g, fr . '.PJl, Will mail must present their ID cards. 

good and strong," noted Martin, who is now in his 15th season at the Air Force Academy. "They are much too powerful to give them the 21 points handicap. We threw out the game plan after the first quarter. I thought they would be awfully good, but we never gave ourselves a chance." 
"This was a game in which we got a number of early breaks, " added Parseghian, "we capitalized on them and gottheball into the end zone quickly," 
Bob Thomas, who had two field goals in addition to his six extra points, got both of those in the second quarter. one of 36, the other 
A pair of the sometimes; unsung 
trench-fighters, an offensive 
tackle, and a defensive guard 
captured the most votes for the 
Kodak All-American football team 
which was announced Saturday by 
the American Football Coaches Association. 
Ohio State tackle John Hicks, 6-foot, 3-inch,258-pound economics major, led in the balloting for a 23­man squad named by the com­mittee representing more than 3,000 voting members of the AFCA. 
Lucious Selmon, 5-11. 236-pound 
noseguard, a special education 
major and one of three brothers playing for Oklahoma, drew the second largest total ef votes. 
The coaches picked five of­fensive backs, an slotted their 11 defensive men into three brackets­-linemen, linebackers and defensive backs. 
Southern California placed three men on the squad. Texas, Ohio State, Oklahoma, Nebraska and Michigan each had two players elected. 
The U.S.C. Trojans landed two men on the offensive squad and one on defense. Booker Brown, a 270­pound guard, and flankerback Lynn Swann, outs~nding wide receiver, made the attacking unit. 
of 32 yards after the Air Force got on the board by virtue of a 21-yard Haynie to Al Bready touchdown pass. This made the score at in­termission 34-6. 
The Falcons came back stronger in the second half on the efforts of a 51-yard field goal by Dave Lawson and an 18-yard scoring gallop by Dave Reiner late in the fourth period. However, these were 
sandwiched around a 22-yard Cliff Brown to Pete Demmerle scoring 
. pass, and an AI Samuel tally from five yards out. As a result the Irish had their ninth victory without a defeat while Air Force finished their season 6-4. 
Coach Ara Parseghian and his tri­captain, All-American Dave Casper. 
Richard Wood, an outstanding junior, made the linebacking force. 
Ohio State's contributions were Hicks, called by coach Woody Hayes the best tackle he's had and the team's lone repeater, Randy Gradishar (6-3,238) who also made it in 1972 despite an injured leg. 
Two linemen from Nebraska won positions on the honor team. Offensive tackle Daryl White measures 6-4 and 247, defensive tackle John Dutton is 6-7 and 251. 
"I think the Air Force came back very well in holding us as well as they did and scoring twice 
themselves,"said Ara. "Frankly we were concerned about the of­fensive power of the Air Force because they moved the ball very well last week against a very fine Arizona team." 
But while the Falcons may have been grounded this weekend, the Miami Hurricanes remain to be reckoned with next week and hopefully the Irish won't be !~king past them to the Crimson Tide. 
Two players whocertainlywon't are Clements and Penick. 
"I'm not thinking ahead to Alabama because we still have to play Miami down there, and they can be tough," offered Penick. "Last year their middle guard Tony Christiani gave us lots of trouble." 
"We still have another game to play before the Sugar Bowl, and that's the game I'm thinking about right now," added junior quar­terback Clements. "We'll have some added difficulties playing at night and on poly-turf so I'm concerned with Miami." 
Nonetheless, the topic of facing Alabama was not to be avoided. 
"~'ve always wanted to play agamst them," said senior center Mark Brenneman. "I just can't wait, let us loose." 
"It's a dynamite opportunity," offered Art Best. "It's our chance to be num her one." 
But perhaps Bob Thomas echoed the sentiments of the players most accurately when he said, "The only thing that could stop us is if things go wrong with the other teams involved and we don't have a chance at the polls. We're not going to lose. We've got two games left, one against Miami the other against Alabama, and 'we're not going to lose." 
This past weekend's "college football extravaganza" certainly took care of his first worry. It's up to the Irish to take care of the rest. 
Oklahoma's defense was twice represented by the oldest Selmon and by linebacker Rod Shoate. 
Michigan also placed a pair on defense, Dave Brown in the back­field, and Dave Gallagher up front. 
The quarterback assignment went to Dave Jaynes o f Kansas. Jayhawker Jaynes,who carries 212 pounds on a 6-2 frame, broke school records with every pass completion. 
Fullback Roosevelt <Rosey) Leaks of Texas was the major 
ollege rushing leader neariy all season. Only 5-11 and 215, Leaks is a junior. Halfback honors went to Woody Green of Arizona State and John Cappelletti, a law en­forcement major, from Penn State. Center BTll Wyman gave Texas two offensive represen-· tatives. 
Other offensive selections in­clude Danny(Lightning) Buggs of West Virginia at split end; Dave Casper of Notre Dame at tight end, and Buddy Brown of Alabama at guard. 
Other defensive choices were Paul Vellano of Maryland, defensive line, Warren Capone of Louisiana State, linebacker; and Randy Rhino of Georgia Tech, defensive back. 









