.----~-~-------------­
On The Inside 
Student Lobby for 18 year old Majority age ... pg. 2 
Marathon Dance ... pg. 6 



Vol. VII No. 113 serving the notre dame -st. mary's community Thursday, April 12, 1973 
~sacrifice involved:' Faccenda 

Lettuce boycott referendum set 
Teamster union lettuce, there may be that the university food service isby John Rumbach times when no salads will be served prepared to handle the situation if theStaff Reporter because of a shortage of UFW lettuce. referendum to boycott lettuce is 
Faccenda letter 

Students will decide in a referendum Since UFW lettuce is more expensive, passed.Monday whether or not the University there also may be fewer salads . The idea of a referendum was will serve only United Farm Workers "In other words, there will be a initiaited by Fr. Thomas McNally and 
Dear Students:

<UFW) lettuce. sacrifice involved," the letter says. Fr. William Toohey of the Campus 
Many of you are aware of the lettuce boycott which is

Dr. Phillip Faccenda, Vice-President Ministry. Fr. McNally said that other
Passage of the referendum would now being carried out nationally by Cesar Chavez andof Student Affairs, announced in a letter colleges are boycotting non-union his United Farm Workers union. Chavez and his
support the national lettuce boycott
to the students that they will vote on the lettuce. He also mentioned that the backers are calling on Americans to buy only lettuce
which Cesar Chavez and his UFW union 
picked by members of his union and to boycott lettuce

lettuce boycott issue because it affects boycott has_received approval of all the 
have called. However, Faccenda which is either non-union or comes from growers Whothem directly. warns that the boycott issue is not clear Indiana bishops. have signed with the rival Teamsters union. Faccenda 's letter explains that if the The referendum will take place in the The issue is hardly black and white. Many believe
cut..
University boycotts non-union or dining halls on Monday. that Chavez aand hiS UFW are advancing the cause of
"Many believe that Chavez and his social justice in their efforts to help migrant workers. 
UFW are advancing the cause of social Others contend that the boycott is unjust because the justice in ther efforts to help migrant matter is simply a iurisdictional dispute between two 
unions.

workers. Others contend that the 
Across the United States, Chavez has drawn muchboycott is unjust because the matter is support from churches, including many Roman Catholic simply a jurisdictional dispute between bishops and institutions. At Notre Dame, for example. 
the University has been observing the boycott since last

two unions," Faccenda states in the 
summer at a weekly additional cost of $100.00. We have

letter. 
bought only UFW lettuce when this was available. On Notre Dame has been observing the rare occasions when this lettuce has not been available, boycott since last summer, buying non­·however, we have bought the other kind. Because you are the ones directly affected, we believe
union lettuce only when UFW lettuce 
the issue should be submitted to you for your judgement.

was not available. This has cost the 
Therefore we will have a referendum on the issue University an extra $100 a week. Monday, April 16, in the dining halls. Keep in mind that Fr. James Shilts, assistant vice­if the University supports the boycott fully there may be times when no salads will be served because of short
president of student affairs, explained 
supply of UFW lettuce. Moreover, the higher prices

that the present boycott was a purely 
which this lettuce commands on the market may result administrative decision made by Fr. in fewer salds being served. In other words, there will Jerome Wilson, vice-president of be a sacrifice involved--a small sacrifice, perhaps, but a 
sacrifice nevertheless. ·

business affairs, Mr. Edmund Price, 
The question to be voted on: Should the Universitydirector of food services and university serve only UFW lettuce in the Dining Halls. Before provost Fr. James Burtchaell. April 16, we hope that the students will consider this usse 
carefully. Thank you. ·

"It was the general consensus of the 
Sincerely,

staff to take the question to the 
Fr. James Shilts Dr. Philip Faccenda

students," Fr. Shilts said. He added Vice President for Student Attain 

Commissioners to plancampus-wide election 
by Tom McKenney let the winner run things from petition with Kubik, echoed or a new election will assure their Staff Reporter there," Giuffrida said. Kubik's feelings, saying, "There being heard." was a question regarding the In accordance with Tuesday legality of the present con­some loopholes
abide by declslon
night's Judicial Board decision, stitution's adoption." This the Student Board of Com­decision by the Judicial Board missioners are meeting today to Matt Kubik, who presented the clarifies that question and legally Gering added, "There were make plans for a campus wide referendum petition to the Judicial establishes this constitution." some loopholes in the HPC election. Board, said, "I would hpve liked to proposal and there was also the 
have seen a constitutional con­point that 1500 off-campus students 

pleased with defeat

vention, but I will abide by the had no representation with regards new election court's decision." Kubik was to the HPC decision." pleased that the present con­Both Gering and Kubik were Gering believes that the present 
In Tuesday's meeting, the stitution, which gives authority to pleased with the defeat of the constitution is adequate, saying,Judicial Board decided that the the present student government, proposed HPC consitution. Gering "all that the present constitutionpresent student government was finally declared legitimate by said, "We were concerned with really needs is an amendment that constitution was "valid, effective the Judicial Board. whether the students were being will assure an allocation of fundsand legal." The Board of Com­Rick Gering, who presented the heard or not, at least a referendum for the HPC."
missioners were then directed to arrange for an election of a new student government before April 
30. From Farley and B-P 
..I! 


Cast-outs face 'miserable' new year 
by Marlene Zloza lottery system, Singleton felt that In actuality , Sunday's meeting Dehner also stressed that Senior Reporter being involved in the choice gives of approximately 100 Lyons present Lyons residents "believe him a good vantage point. residents ended in a 97 to 3 vote in it's our dorm and we hated to give 
Resigned to a less than perfect "I think that allowing the halls to favor of the open class lottery. the Farley and Breen-Phillips guys housing situation, Farley and decide their own room pick "One student who spoke for the a major voice in what goes on." Breen-Phillips seniors-to-be are procedure was a decision made in class lottery system was booed," \Breen-Phillips President Joe skeptical about their welcome at good faith," said Singleton. "The claimed Singleton. Passiatore thinks his residents Lyons next fall. Student Affairs office felt the halls "The trouble should be blamed "just want to get it over with. With 
"We realize there is no possible would handle it with a sense of on the leadership in Lyons," all the guys getting forced off­way to reverse the decision, but justice and honor." asserted Singleton, "they didn't campus, we are lucky to getMatt Kubik unless attitudes change, life will be Singleton expressed a belief that realize what was fair and didn't anything at all.." 


Commissioner Fred Giuffrida a miserable experience in Lyons Lyons juniors and sophomores-to­allow Farley and Breen Phillips "A lot of us were looking forward said that the Board would meet next year," admitted Farley Hall be "should have been able to people to get a good choice." to getting better picks, but now we today for the express purpose of President Chris Singleton. conduct themselves in a com­Representing the other side of are pretty well resigned to getting 
setting up an election and that the According to the Lyons passionate and fair way for all. the issue, Lyons President Jim the raw end of the deal," said 
Board would run the election itself procedure, all 227 of next year's But they just didn't put themselves Dehner feels the chosen plan is Singleton. "We don't want to let as stipulated by the Judicial Board residents participated in a general in our position, which they will be justified. anything interfere with our senior in their Tuesday meeting. lottery and room picks took place in next year." "I talked to Fr. Riehle about it year." 
Giuffrida did not think the Board last night. This system was chosen As an alternative, Singleton and he never said anything about Despite this resignation, the would be presented with the. over a class lottery at a hall would have liked Farley and Breen giving the new residents a voice," Farley president mentioned fears petitions that called for a student. meeting last Sunday night. Phillips juniors to have been in­said Dehner. "He left it up to us that "conditions will be so bad referendum on the question of a Aware of "a lot of negative cluded in the decision.making, and we felt we had the right to some residents are considering constitutional convention. "We opinions" concerning Mr. Fac­which he thinks would have make our own decision. They moving off-campus. They are _not will simply set up the election and cenda's decision on Lyons and the resulted in a class lottery. aren't Lyons residents yet." ,(continued on page 3) 





briefs 
ll'l Ul7:\ Nt>w York Tirol'S 

Washington-Administration officials said Wednesday that President NiXon would use a report from Gen. Alexander M. Haig Jr. as a ba~is ~or a maj~r decisi?n on how to cope with a "deteriorating" cease-fire m lndochma. Ha1g was scheduled to return this morning <Thursday) from four days of conferences in Indochina. 
Washington-A leading Republican legislator expressed "shock" at Attorney General Richard G. Kleindienst's sweeping interpretation of Executive Privilege. The legislator, Rep. John B. Anderson of lllinois, called Kleindienst's broad claims "unnecessarily provocative and contemptuous of Congress," which he urged to pass legislation strictly limiting the President's so-called Executive Privilege to keep aides from testifying before Congressional committees. 
Washington-The President's chief contact with the Republican National Committee said the Watergate controversy is hurting the party. Anne Armstrong, whose official title is Counselor to the President, said she agreed with Sen. Barry Goldwater's assessment that fund-raising efforts have been offered and that Republican candidates could be hurt next year unless the controversy is cleared up. 
Washington-A federal judge ordered the Nixon Administration to stop all efforts to dismantle the Office of Economic Opportunity. In a strongly worded opinion, District Judge William B. Jones called the dismantling "unauthorized by law, illegal and in excess of statutory authority." The ruling came in a suit brought by unions representing employes whose jobs were threatened by the administration's efforts to end the programs funded by Congress. 
an campu• taday 
7:0o-meeting, an tostal com­mittee, breen-phillips chapel 
7: 3Q-benefit concert, collegiate jazz festival, cannonball ad­derry, richard hatcher, stepan 
center 
7: 3Q-meeting, astronomy club, 118 nieuwland science hall 
8 p.m.: mecha lecture, "the catholic church from a chicano point of view," by fr. juan ro.mero, lib. aud. 


at nd-•mc: 

Student lobby for ntajori~y age 

by Terry Keeney Staff Reporter 
Student Body Vice-President Dennis <H-Man) Etienne and former Student Body Treasurer Mike Marget have met with In­

, diana college student leaders to form a student lobby. 
The purpose of the student lobby, according to Etienne, is to be a political arm of and or college students in Indiana. 
"The lobby will concern itself with matters of consequence to college-age students," explained Etienne. 
The immediate aim of the lobby smd the primary' goal of H-Man's ocfforts is to lower the age of majority to 18. Such a change would also lower the drinking age from 21 to 18. The lobby will also deal with other youth-oriented legislative issues. 
Despite the rejection of a bill to lower the drinking age to 20 earlier this year by the Indiana legislature, Etienne is hopeful that the new student lobby will effect the passage of the 18-year-old bill sometime next session. He cited the fragmented student lobby for the original bill as the reason for its rejection. 
"With all the different peopole down there in Indianoplis the legislators pr.obably got fed up with all the lobbying for the same issue by an essentially homogeneous group." 

· Etienne believes that, under the ne~ student lobby, efforts to lower the drinking age will meet with I success due to the coordination of 
r lobbying. 
I "With an association of this type we will have the resources to do the 
Thursday, April 12, 1973
the observer
l 
. H-Man: the "'"'"""'•u• 
got fed up with all the lnhl•v•~"' _ research to get the job done," H­Man observed. 
The student lobby will consist of an educational arm and the lob­bying arm itself. 
The educational lobby will acquaint college students across the state with methods of lobbying and teach them how to mobilize a lobby. 




GSU election 
James Zafirau, a grad student in educational Administration will seek the vice-presidential position in the GraudateJ Student Union, not the presidential position he previously considered. 
This new development occured after The Observer published the background and platforms of all the candidates in yesterday's paper. Zafirau has mailed a statement on his switch and his new platform ideas to all the grad students. The election for GSU office is Friday. 

The lobbying arm, comprising two representatives from each member college, will meet twice each year to determine the issues and methods of lobbying. A registered, professional lobbyist inay be hired during the months t.he legislature is in session. 
In addition to the bill to lower the prinking age, the lobby will en­(lorse passage of the Equal Rights Amendment to the Constitution, the landlord-tenant bill, and the proposed state aid to non-public colleges. 
The student lobby is still in the provisional stages and has yet to establish a permanent structure. Dennis (H-Man) Etienne is Secretary of the current tem­porary executive board of the lobby. 
The Observer is publiShed dally during the college semester except vacations by the stuaents of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for sa per semester ($14 per year) from The Obs~rver Box Q, Notre Dame, lnd•ana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame. Ind. 
46556. 
COLLEGIATE¢-JAZZ FESTIVAL 


April 12·14 

12th--Concert: Cannonball Adderly, Richard Hatcner, Charissma Dancers, Julius Farmer Quintet, The Bill Nix Trio and the· CJF iudges' combo. 
Stepan Center 7:'0 pm $5 at the door• 1'th··Opening Session of the CJF-·7:'0 Stepan 14th--Afternoon Session: 1:'0 Stepan·· 


7:'0 pm Evening Session. :14th--Midnight Jam Session with CJF Judges' Combo 
Tickets: All Se$sion ticket $6.00 Friday, Sat. afternoon, Saturday night, and lam session: $1, $2, $4, $2, respectively. 

Dining hall sales Wednesday.  
Judges:  Dan Morgenstern, Gil Evans, Jimmy Owens, Joe Farrell, Hubert Laws, Roy Haynes, Alvin Batiste.  
Bands:  Malcolm X, Texas Southern, Ohio State, Ohio U., Tenn_essee St.-, Wisconsin at Madison, Indiana 0., M.I.T., Michigan, Governer's State, Triton College, Bowdoin College, Notre Dame, Indiana State.  

Tickets available at CAC office and American Nat. Bank and Branches 
THE MAGIC FLUTE 
TilE NOTRE DAME-SAINT MARY'S THEATRE l\1ozart's eomic opera l'roduel'd in association with the St. Mary's College Music ()ppt. April 6,7,12,13,14 at 8:30 p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium, St. Mary's 
Students·-Faculty -Staff $2.00 Reservations: 284-4176 


Army-Navy Discount 
207 N. Main St. Downtown South Bend 
Store Hours: Mon & Thur: 9am to Spm Tues, Wed, Fri, Sat. 9am to 5:30pm 
SLEEPING BAGS 11.99 to 39.99 PUPTENTS 7.99 to 22.99 BACK PACKS 1.99 to 24.99 CANTEENS 1.69 & 1.99 MESS KITS 1.39 & 1.99  
Also ....  

Combat Boots 15.99 Jungle Boots 13.99 


Thursday, April 12, 1973 

the observer 
3 


Magazine to be launched 
George A. Hirsch, the founding other media." book "Boss" about Mayor Sport magazine, Murray Kempton, publisher and president of New "It will be a magazine built Daley, Larry L. King, from Texas the columnist and author, Nicholas 
whose "Confessions of a White
York magazine, will launch a new around by-lined articles that en­von Hoffman whose column in The 
Racist" was a 1972!National Book 

ATTENTION

national magazine this fall. He has tertain as well as inform, a Washington Post is nationally been organizing the bi-weekly new magazine with no inteyest in the Award nominee, Jack Newfield, syndicated and J. Anthonly Lukas, magazine publication since • he stereotype, a magazine of surprise investigative reporter and an winner of a Pulitzer Prize for his 
resigned from New York a year and substance, quality writing, editor of the Villgage Voice and New York Times report on a girl 
ALL 

and half ago. drama and fun. A magazine where Joan Barthel whose writing has who was murdered in the East The magazine, entitle New news comes alive," announced appeared in Life magazine. Village. Times, "will cover1 news in a new Hirsch. Others will be Chicago's Studs Ne w T imes, will be the first 

RADUATIN 

uniquely relevant way," accordict Among the ocntributing editors Terkel, author of "Hard Times", news magazine launched in this to Hirsch. "We intend to publish a will by Jimmy Breslin, the an oral history of the Great country in forty years. "in a nation news magazine that assumes a well-known jounalist and television Depression, Pete Hamill, the more than ever before being 

STUDENTS 

knowledge of news events, that commentator, Joe McGinis, author columnist for the New York/ Post", assualted by new ideas, in an 
goes behind the scenes for new of the No. 1 best-seller "The Sara Davidson, a contributor to America trying harder than ever insights and untold stories, that Selling of the President 1968", Harper's and other publications, to i understand itself and reach 
Measurements 

. spots news before others do, that ·Mike Royko, the Pulitzer Prize Dick Schaap, the author, television accord, we expect to be an in­
answers questions raised by the winning columnist who wrote the newscaster, and editor in chief of despensable guide through the 
wiII be taken
seventies," said Kirch. We are not bound by any out going publishing ·c~mmitment to 
for 
cover a particular kind of news, or







Farley,B-Presidentsexpect 
even by any traditional definition of what news is. On our bi-weekly schedule, we will have the capacity to present stories within a few days

trying new year at Lyons 
of assigning the, but we will also 

CAPS
have time to sort through the complexities of life and events,"·

(continued from page 1) said "the University thought about ·probably won't let anything in­Hirsch stated. 
the long-range problems, but in the terfere with their last year."
sure moving down there is worth Steve Gelman will be the editor 
and

immediate future, with no fresh­Passiatore echoed this, stating "I
the class wars and undesirable hall of the magazine. He was the ar­
men next year, underclassmen think all the seniors will get along 
spirit." ticles editor of Life and prior to
have to choose roommates and pretty well but I doubt if there will 
Passiatore agreed with this that was a senior editor and the
might be stuck with a class be any strong ties with un­
view, adding that "first they entertainment editor of 1 that 
system." derclassmen." "It's unrealistic to 

GOWNS

started out on the wrong foot by magazine. Thomas Pyle, who was
The Lyons president also said expect things to be perfect and I
having a Lyons class lottery and production manager of Newsweek
that Lyons residents who have to expect three subcultures to exist,"
putting us after that. Our feelings has joined New Times in the same 
move next year wouldn't have a added the Breen Phillips 
Thursday

of bitterness have been assuaged a capacity. Allen Hurlburt is acting 
chance to move up in serniority president.
bit but I don't think other halls will as design director. He was the art
and should have that chance this Aware of the fears and problems 
puil the same stunt next year and director of Look magazine for 

April 12

year. in attitude Dehner, a senior, has
not give Lyons residents their many years.
Singleton called the Lyons offered to stay on as hall president 
seniority picks." The investors are American 
and

decision "an act only in ac­and help foster good feelings with a
Dehner ignored this view and Express, Bank of America, Chase
cordance with their own con­party and some get-togethers for Manhattan Capital Corporation,venience" and fears this will be a the new residents. 
First National Bank of Boston, 


Friday

big blow to demands for self-will Passiatore is doubtful of Breen First National Bank of Chicago,
and hall autonomy. Phillips' response to this, saying Hambrecht 1and Quist, PioneerSingleton also expressed ap­that, "this is our last month and we 

April 13
Ventures Co., Union Bank of

proval of the advance an­have plans of our own for hall California, Westven Management,nouncement of Lyons as the next events and reunions. Most of us and a group of private investor~ 

between

women's dorm. "In this way as will be pretty tied up. I think it led by Richard B. Fisher, A part·, few students as possible are might be helpful to start things like ner of Morgan, Stanley and Co. 

9:00-4:00

displaced and advanced warning that next fall." has been given to those who are All three hall presidents ex­involved," explained Singleton. pressed a final hope that Lyons 
at the

· As for hall relations next year, residents can live together Singleton called the situation "not amenably and make the best of the 
Friday, April 13 

as bad for seniors because they situation as it has turned out. 
Architecture Building 
9:30 -2:00am 



NOTRE
FRACTURED FAIRY TALES


WSND-FM planning 
Costume Affair Everyone invited 
DAME 
Tickets $5 in Arkie 
Library



broadcastiDarathon 
Singleton: Lyons acted only in by David Rust announcer and station business 
BOOKSTORE 

accordance with their own con­Senior Reporter manager. venience. Dodge is coordinating the Radio station WSND-FM, 88.9 on project with WSND-FM assistant
Hotline's status the FM dial, began a 91-hour program director John McEachin. broadcasting marathon this Anyone who wishes to contribute morning in search of funds that becomes a "sponsor" of a part of
depends on 
will allow the station to operate the radio show with his con­this summer. tribution pledge. The pledgeavailability of WSND-FM, whose promoters enables the donor to make requests call it Notre Dame's Fine Art for special songs or works. He can new volunteers Station, will broadcast its ask for any classical concert piece, 
marathon until 2 a.m. Monday, or or from , from midnight to 6 a.m., (continued from page 7) longer, depending on listener any rock, jazz or folk music One example of this was to expand response. selection he desires. services to include counseling "We're counting on the South All interested in becoming a 
Bend community, plus anybody program sponsor should call
regarding child abuse. In a similar 
from Notre Dame who'll be around WSND at 283"-7342. The man an­fashion Hotline is working with during the summer, to keep us swering the phone will take allPlanned Parenthood and its broadcasting," said Russ Dodge, pledge amounts and requests.
Parents Communication Program, 
the YWCA Group Home for Girls, the Runaway Project, and Youth Services Bureau. 
RE.NT A PINTO\





GRADUATION
Both Schlaver and Figiola saw the program as having its share of 
115A DA~


problems. 
Those who are interested in applying for volunteer work this summer can contact Rick Figiola at 283-3058, or the Hotline offices at 282-2323. 

NOTICE 
ALL STUDENTS PRESENTLY SIGNED UP FOR NOTRE DAME AVE. APT'S FOR SUMMER OR SEPT. 1, 1973 
CALL MR. FARMER 
272-7656 




IS NEARI 
5¢A MILEJ

:ook your best with a Windjammer h·ait style. 
FOR ~E:. INFO,CALL:

The way your hair looks makes a difference to you. "Craig Kapson" The three expert stylists at 
or 

the Windjammer know this. 
Lois Tranter 

All Services By Appointment --Call Now 25t-J9@1 


Uhe WinJjammer 
HAll STYLING FOI DISCRIMINATING MEN & BOYS 
. 1637 Lincoln Wav W. Closed Mondays Phone 232-6622 

A large clock in Lyons' first floor corridor slowly inches to 9:12 as I arrive, not really knowing what to expect. There are a lot of Farley and Breen-Phillips guys both before and behind me as I heave open the heavy wooden door and am greeted by a small group gathered just around the corner of the foyer. 
Moving closer, I see that they're gathered around a set of maps for Lyons Hall and a list of 2'J:l names. Counting nine green marks drawn through some of the names on the list, I noted that least four are friends from Farley, and vaguely remember hearing someone say that so-and-so and so-and-so are moving off-campus because they got such high lottery numbers. 
The small crowd moves jinto a medium-:;'"''U ,me dS more people from 1Farley, Breen-Phillips and Lyons jcin fnen.is. ~-ow mumbling can be heard from the crowd, occasionally ':>rea :inb r;•n intelligable speech: 
"We'll go for this 'T' Joe; it's better and if we clon't get it it'll be the same all the way up." 
"Hey! we can take over the whole damn fourth floor!" 
Gone are the accusations of "pimp!" and "unfair" heard only yesterday and the day before concerning the method the pick numbers were determined. No mention is made of the half-hearted attempt at a "boycott" of the room picks. There are no bad feelings towards either the Lyons side or the Farley-BP side; there is nothing but the normal excitement of the annual Grand Central Station-esque tension of room picks. 
"We'll have four guys .... " 
"I'll go for 131 with Pat..." 
"Two-sixteen!" 

The small-to-begin-with Lyons corridor quickly fills up in an­ticipation of the start of the ritual. Movement becomes limited at the core around the map, and in the fringe areas, students begin pacing, mumbling arithmetic to themselves. I make my way through an in­creasingly dense pack of sweating bodies, high numbers and pointing fingers. 
"There's been a change, there's been a change!" some guy comes shouting through the crowd, adding that a room has been made an RA room and is therefore not on the list anymore. He is greeted by a few moans and curses. 
Gary Caruso makes an appearance and quickly proclaim~ himself the organizer of the pick by suddenly beginning to read the riot act, and. the consequences of not conforming, to the mass of unlistening students. He calls for the first name on the list and disappears into a small room with three students. 
"A triple! A triple went first!" slowly begins to sift through the crowd upon the emergence of three grinning guys, followed by a fourth who makes a large green X across a room on one of the maps. Some more guys come in the front door and the crowd is blessed with a cool breeze. 
All thoughts of rebellion against Fr. Riehle and the University are lost in the suddenly-exploded excitement. Lists of room choices replace petitions as the rule of "Thinkjof Number One" takes hold of the students in the corridor, producing a hundred quickie rna th majors and probability equations. Mental curves go up and down as rooms begin to be slowly ticked off and names begin to be buried under hard green slashes. 
"Who the hell's got pick numbe:-twenty?" 
"Who the hell cares? What did he take? What did he take?" 
"Where're you going?" 

"Hell if I know! Whatever I can get!" 
But though the numbers are getting higher and more and more 
relieved expressions appeared, the crowd refused to thin out enough to allow passage, even to the door of the pick room. The press of the crowd gets more and more vicious as guys fight to get back to the now blue,red, green and smudge-marked map to trace the progress of the pick. 
I check my watch and remember deadlines and realize that I must leave. I slowly make my way through the crowd for the last time and make it to the door. The smell of nervous hopes pervades the area as I push open the door and the pick continues. 
"What room went?" 
"348., 

"Aw, goddammit, I wanted that one!" 
"Boy, did I get pimped!" 

the observer 
Issue Staffl Night Editor: Christopher Sullivan Night Editor emeritus: george lund Layout: Marlene Zloza--to whom this issue is dedicated 
Typists: David Rust. John Flannigan, Barb Norcross, Dennis Anastasott, Joe Wilkowski Day Editor: Tom Drape/ Copy Editor: Mike O'Hare Night Controller: Howard Halle 

daanesbury 
11&1/, C~Or"/,. r 6orm 
tiJlF:f?., 9ti!/'IIE; 
tril CWt Y 1J/Irt3 ,R.0/'1 77i!2(){)6'1 
A 5£CONO. JVST 
Gille 11E 11 t;U!CK
rHesE 
o,t, ox,
R€ACT70N !1/'/D

resrs... 
t.er's see..
1:-'u. 8& OFF/ 
I
I 
l 








OBSERVER 

COMMENT 
April 12, 1973 Page 4 

-P.O. Box Q-
Circle Unwound 
Editor: 
In your recent editorial entitled "The Circle Game," 4-11-73, I became very disgusted with some of the statements that you printed. The first of these is your statement that the vote of the hall councils on the constitution was in compliance with the student vote for Jim Clarke (30 percent) in the recent SBP election. This is not correct since eleven halls voted for the constitution and only eight against. 
And, in fact, there is a good chance that the constitution was misrepresented to some of the eight halls voting no, since six of the eight presidents involved are new to the HPC and unfamiliar with the HPC's workings and potential. 
Secondly, you stated that after all the constitutional work, the people <politicians, as you term them) have finally realized that the students " ... don't care how the government is organized, but just that there is one." But, in fact, what lies behind this quote is exactly what gave birth to a.ll of this constitutional work for the first place, and forms the skeleton behind almost every constitution that was presented. 
Thirdly, you made it sound as if the people <politicians again) involved in these constitutions worked solely for their own personal satisfaction. I, for one, am well into the "senior slide" and would gladly have slid right by this constitutional madness, but I felt obligated to the students in my hall to help the HPC where I believed I could. Therefore, I do believe that the people I have worked with, H­Man, Pat McLaughlin, Kevin Griffin, Jim Clarke and myself acted strictly in good faith to the student body to help them to make this place as great as possible. Your statement, "The politicians have had their fun. They've argued constitutions and executive power and legislative checks to their heart's content..." was un­fair. 
Sincerely, 
Paul Tobin 

That Stanford Pride 
Editor: 
Ever since coming to Notre Dame, I've heard references to Stanford as being a so-<!alled "bad" hall. Frankly, I am a little sick of this tirade which has no longer any basis in fact. 
Stanford has had its problems in the past because of a lack of public space and no real flexability in rooms <Stanford is all doubles). Until the stay \hall system was introduced Stanford was made up entirely of Freshmen so con­sequently Stanford did not have any real leadership. Two years ago Stanford graduated its first sizeable senior class. 
My main reason for writing this is Pentegil 's quote in Monitor stating that he allegedly heard some Stanford residents in the dining hall saying they would no longer do anything for Stanford. I find this hard to believe, if only because of the fact that the Ad­miral has his port of call in the south dining hall and all the "animals" from the Stanford "zoo" eat in the north. 
Frankly, the Admiral and the rest of the people who think as he does can go right ahead and un­derestimate Stanford and the people in it. Someday, they will all wake up to find that Stanford passed them up long ago. Finally, hall spirit is fine, Gentlemen, and if you can get someone to write an article about how wonderful you are, more power to you, but don't try and BS me by trying to say something's wrong with my hall. 
Brian McGinty 427 Stanford 

Priest 
VS_. 


President 
Editor: I am not sure exactly what Michael Desposito is advocating in his letter of attack on Father Toohey on April third. He claims .f.ather Toohey lacks a function in expre~sing his opinion on "Viet­n~. Mr-. Nixon, and abortion," since these are not "relevant topics" oi '!part of everyday life" here at Notre Dame. Perhaps Mr. Desposito is unaware just how these topics do affect our everyday life. All he needs to do is to ask any student attempting to receive financial aid for graduate study or trying to land a respeetable job, but finding it most difficult due to the Administration's policies. Or maybe he could talk to fellow students who have freinds or close relatives who have suffered greatly because of Mr. Nixon's policies on Vietnam and amnesty. Surely Mr. Desposito can see how trivial parietal hours and such seem next to matters of deep importance to the entire nation and to every individual student at Notre Dame. Mr. Desposito seems to believe that a university community should be isolated from the 


fiarrytrudiNIU 
HEe Ht£e! 
~ee: Yfi
r t-olle­
10H0!2/2()1.1).
rr 
I 
f 

"outside world" and concerned only with its own matters. How ridiculous! It would only be sense­seless and degrading for Father Toohey and other men of his "influence and prestige" to limit themselves only to what happens at Notre Dame. There seems to be enough people here concerned with parietal hours and being forced off­campus, but not nearly enough involved with the national issues. 
Joe Weiss '74 

Confessions 
Editor: 

Now that my role lin the so-<!alled 
constitutional game is over, I 
would like to explain my personal 
motives for my actions during the 
last five months. My hope is that 
people will tend to finally believe 
them now that I no longer 1have an 
involvement withiStudent govern­
ment politics. I do suppose that my 
opponents will still refuse to 
believe my sincerity, but there are 
a few students who deserve an 
explanation. 
I would like to mention, that in 
January Chris Singleton and I decided not to actively seek the office of SBP. We found however, that. certain \people were playing political games that greatly in­volved the both of us. We decided to have some fun ourselves and make everyone think that we were running, but then we would not campaign for the office. However, on the day before the campaign started, Chris and I camE:. to the conclusion that the games people were playing with us and the ones that we•were in turn playing with them were in actuality harming the average student, who was in­terested in living in his dorm again next year and interested in a decent social and academic life. 
With the hope of ridding student government,of these absurd games we presented a plan which would attempt to minimizelthem.We also realized that we, ourselves, had become so involved in these political games that we would have to forfeit our own participation in the new system. 
We took our plan to the students 
in the election and madetherun-off. 
In the run-off we were swindled from a victory by another political move by the losing candidates. Because of this I became more intent to go ahead and present my plan to the students in a more sober 1 way than had presented itself in the election. However, our plan to rid student government of these trite games ended in failure to the same forces that want to continue to play these games. It was much easier for them to get eight halls against the plan than for us to get fifteen in favor of it. The closeness of the ratification vote, itself, is a tribute to the actual soundness of the plan. 
With this note of my personal feelings, I can no longer justify my participationin suchla system that we ~re and .viii be left with because of the defeat of my system of government I thank everyone who saw the same absurdities and foolishness as I did for their strong wpport of my views. 
Thank you, 
Jim Clarke 



the apri I fool 


There are times when I think I could have made it as a street preacher in Gomorrah. There are days when I think I could have been a faith-healer in the Ozarks, nipped by serpents, saved by grace. There are moods when I want to but a revival tent, pack Darby O'Gill and myself onto the backs of mules, and the two of us would become the wandering gypsies of Jesus, evangelizing the heathen. There are nights wehn I feel I have the courage to mount a soap box in Times Square and hurl the thunderbolds of redemption at the pimps and harlots. On April mornings, there is nothing I cannot do. I can stand at the foot of the Cross, a faithful witness to the Lord's suffering. I can be lifted onto the nails of my own crucifixion out of love for the Lonely Figure on the central Cross Who cried, "Today, thou shalt be with me in Paradise,.. I can even raise the dead to life through a fierceness of love that costs the dark angel all his victories. 
Because it is nearly Easter, I imagine I can do all these things. These are the fantasies induced by the euphoria of spring. Ifl were a\rogue,l might collect my fantasies from Playboy, If I were a moonbeam, I might dream of being a star. But since I am a cleric, my need is to become a super­priest. My urgencies lie in doing God's errands better than anyone else has ever done them ; and in the secrets the heart tells to the mind, there are murmurs of messianic longings. 
self-image 

But in all the stories I know of myself, the self-image is either shabby or ridiculous. 
A. Saint Mary's Athletic Program? It may be lilard to believe, but this spring will bring th~ debut of one new team, while two esJablished ones continue. The St. Mary's F~ncing team posted a winning 3-2 record ~fs year and is looking forward to next yEiar; both the tennis and golf teams are warming up for their first spring of com­Ptttition. 
tennis team 

The tennis team was established last 
O~tober and has played only two meets so 
far ,losing to Kalamazoo College but beating 
the Notre Dame women's team. The 22­
number team has been practicing at the 
Mi1'hawaka Raquet Club while awaiting 
spring and the completion of the resurfacing 
of flhe courts near McCandless Hall. 
The resurfaced courts will allow the team 
to host other woman's teams from the 
Michigan and Indiana area, including 
Kalamazoo, Valparaiso College and 
Once in a restaurant in Greenwich Village, a young man dressed in the toggery of a motorcycle rider came face to face with me in a passageway to the restroom; wor­(l)essly and without hesitation, he spit in my eye. It was not my eye that had offended him, I was sure of that; it was my collar. My impulse was to go after him, pick him!Up by the scruff of the neck , and say, "You young son of a bitch! How dare you insult the church! How dare you think that I will not defend the priesthood that 1\love!" I think I shold have shaken him until his bloody teeth fell out; and then I should have set his backside on the ground and preached Jesus to him until his ugly cyncism was as thoroughly dislodged as those bloody teeth. 
Instead of manhandling him, I went back to my table and drank Manhattans. 
Graham and Grifftn 
I don't think Billy Graham, in similar circumstances, would have gone back to his table and drunk Manhattans. That is why Billy Graham gets to eat breakfast with Nixon in the White House. That is why I never get invited to the White House; but to tell you the truth, if I were to eat breakfast with Nixon, I would really need those Manhattans first. 
Graham has courage, if not taste. Griffin has his drinks mixed with bourbon and agnostic spitters go unrebuked u; the restaurants of Greenwich Village. "0 What a life, 0 priest of Jesus Christ!" 
On another evening in New York, I sat in a neighborhood bar near Broadway and 72nd street, sipping a creame de menthe. On a 


sports at saint mary's 
M)ichigan State. If the recommendation of tl~e Planning Committee for Campus Life and Recreation is accepted, the team will get an indoor facility including a gym, swimmingpool and recl"eational center. 
lrne new facilities will enable the college to,oompete in intercollegiate competition in basketball and volleyball; they will also give St. Mary's students an opportunity to play handball, paddleball, creative dance, and free movement. The facilities will help expand the St. Mary's Physical Education program. 
golf team 
The Saint Mary's golf team will make its debut on April 28, when it travels to Purdue for an 18-hole tournament against Purdue and other Indiana schools. Organized this year by Nell Freewin, the team is presently under the direction of Sister Kathy Reichert and consists of Livy O'Neill, Janet Schleismann, Jane Rupp, and Nell Freewin. 
;tool three paces away sat a lady who was obviously drunk. I paid not attention to what she was doing until finally, she leaned over and siad: 
"What is your name?" 
.. "Robert," I said, in my slavishness to the truth. "Robert," she said, "what do you do?" "I am a teacher," I said. "Robert," she said, fixing a watery, gin­
crossed eye upon me, "What do you.teach?" 
"English," I replied. 
For a while she sat there, silently sifting the implications of this heady news. Then she said: "Robert would you move your stool over here and help me with my speech and diction?" 
One wonders how Cardinal Newman would have handled this situation, or Paul of Tarsus dealing with the Second Corinthians. 
One can imagine the situation now: old Paul, out without his phylacteries, in some cheap dive in Asia Minor. Some boozy dancing girl leans over and says, "What do you do?" 
"Oh," says Paul evasively, "I'm a book writer." --meaning, of course, that he writes epistles for the Bible. 
the dancing girl 
The boozy dancing girl reflects for a moment, then says, "Could you help me make a selection from my book-of-the· month club?" 
Only it could never happen that way. St. Paul and Cardinal Newman never wan­dered into bars for a nightcap. One cannot imagine Newman talking to a boozy dancing 
Both Rupp and Freewin have competitive golf experience behind them. 
The team was organized to provide an opportunity for intercollegiate competition, but it is also open to beginners. Informal golf classes are held at 4:30 p.m. each Wednesday in Angela Hall, with Sister Kathy Reichert instructing all of the golfers and placing a definite emphasis on having fun. 
fencing team 
The St. Mary's Fencing team started out on a high note when the merger between St. Mary's and Notre Dame was proposed, getting both the use of ACC facilities and extra coaching help from the Notre Dame coaches. When the merger fell through and the facilities and extra coaching help were lost, the team voted not to give up and made arrangements to use Angela Hall at SMC. 
.The team attempted to hold regular practices in Angela's gym despite in­terference from cheerleaders, pick-up basketball games, karate classes and tennis lessons. They used outdated equipment found in Angela's lockers, got occasional help from members of the ND fencing team, picked up some cast-off uniforms, and headed for their first meet as St. Mary's fencers. 
The meet, held at Tri-State against a powerful Cornell team and fledgling Indiana and Tri-State teams, was the team's first loss. At the time Cornell was rated fourth in the country, just coming off of a win against MSU's men's team and easily defeated the poorly equipped and ragged fencers. It was a long season and the team finished with a 2­4 record. 
bright future 
The team's future brightened this year when St. Mary's furnished the team with better facilities and financial aid in the form of emergency funds for equipment, gas, housing, meals, and travel expenses. The team responded with a winning 3-2 record, bringing its total record to 5-6 against teams like Cornell, Vanderbilt, Indiana, Tri-State, Case Western Reserve , Harpeth Hall and Culver. The team consists of Cathy Schoendienst, Joan Bonifert, Sally Fischer Chris Rosinski, Sue Krakora, Nan .Lauer Judi Offerle, Cindy Rebhold, Karen Valdisserri, Ann Werner and R.J. Hosinsk1 Coach. 

girl. Paul might have talked to1t1er; but he would have told her to be silent in the churches, and he would have sobered her up on\J_esus Crucified. 
The lady with the diction problems heard nothing of Jesus from me. Instead, I ended by playing th(,'"Ani!iversary Waltz" for her on the jukebox. The song was her choice, not mine. As far as I was concerned, we had nothing to celebrate, certainly not an anniversary. But I think if I had been apostolic, we should have had something religious to celebrate, and that is the sadness of the story. 
euphoric daydreams 
I do not really think, despite the euphoric daydreams induced by April, that I am one of the the Christian heroes. I know I am not. 
If I were, young man and woman, I would become honey with zeal, like a prophet that has fasted too long in the desert. In all your trials and triumphs, I would remind you of God's love. My words would constantly invite you into the shadow of the Cross which stretches between a dark earth and a black heaven, and I would show you the face of the Lord. Then you would understnad your true worth, which is totally in­dependent of grades, or med school ac­ceptances, or successes in the dating game, or the triumphs of Clearasil nver acne. 
As it is, l know wen your failures as a Christian. But your love and friendshipihas given a dignity to my lif~that it never had before, and for that I thank you. 
And remember: Darby and I never said we didn't love you. 

• 
J 
• 
•· 
Thursday, April 12, 1973 

the observer
6 

$300prize offered to dance marathon winners 
by Tom Mirabito Staff Reporter 
A $300 first prize has been of­fered by student government to the couple who dances the longest time and has the biggest donation in the first annual Multiple Sclerosis Dance Marathon. 

Jim Roe, chairman of the event_, said, "Many people have been misinformed as to the nature of this dance marathon. It is not 48 hours of straight dancing, each couple gets a half-hour break after every four hours of dancing and are allowed four hours of sleep both nights." Roe felt the way the llow many couples will last long marathon is set up most of the pnough to look this tired? 

couples will be able to dance the entire time. 
When referring to the $300 prize money Roe stressed the fact that each couple should find out how this money is to be divided if they are being sponsored by a group or individual. Roe said, "This is strictly an event sponsored by student government and is in no way connected with An Tostal." 
Steve Jeselnick, chairman of the An Tostal Committee, echoed Roe's sentiments. "'The dance marathon and An Tostal are very definitely two separate activities." 
Jeselnick and Roe both felt that since these activities were being held for different reasons they should not be included in the same program. Jeselnick said, "An Tostal is traditionally a weekend in spring that is set aside so that students can enjoy themselves. The marathon on the other hand conflicts with this in that itis for a very worthy cause and not for the enjoyment of the students." 
Roe added that the response to the marathon is starting to pick up. 
"A lot of people in South Bend are interested in becoming contestants and as of right now we have five couples definitely signed up with a total of close to $1000 in pledges. We encourage any hall, club, or university organization to par­ticipate in this contest," Roe said. 
The dates of the Marathon are April 27, 28 29 in the LaFortune Ballroom. On Saturday night Scum of the Earth will be playing. 

Anyone interested can register in the student government offices or call7668 and 6111. The registration fee is $10. 
Pit to be dug for AnTostal's volley-ball tourney in the 1nud 
by Bob Quackenbush 
Volleyball-in the mud? 
"Yes indeed," says Mike Hansen of the AnTostal Committee. "Sunny Saturday's volleyball championship will be playedin the slipperiest, slimiest, grimiest pit of squishy, oozing mud to be found on campus. Absolutely no competitor shall escape unsoiled." 
"Sunny Saturday" is April's last, and, as part of Notre Dame's annual An Tostal celebration, features a multitude of events. The First Annual Volleyball-in-the­Mud Tournament final is one which Hansen, its administrator, promises will be a favorite. 
Yesterday, Hansen, an Alumni 
Hall Senior, released the rules for 
team registration, which follow: 
1. 
Each team may have six members. 

2. 
Teams may ne all male, all female, or mixed. 

3. 
Students and faculty from both ND and SMC are eligible to par­ticipate. 

4. 
Each team must submit a nickname. 

5. 
To register or acquire ad­ditional information, call 1178 


Hansen said the finalists will be determined through single­elimination tournament play.· He qualified single-elimination as "losing two of three games to fifteen points against an individual opponent." He added that In­terhall rules would be adapted for use in the tournament. 
To obtain optimum playing conditions, a cross-section of soil samples from about the campus was examined. According to Hansen, "We tested for such qualities as the mud's adherence to skin and clothing, its caking ability, and, of course, its slip­periness. Our experimentation revealed the soil of the An Tostal field itself, midway between Notre Dame and St. Mary's to be most suitable." 
A pit, willsoon be constructed on 
the An Tostal field.·The pit will 
range in depth from six to twelve 
inches and will host the finals. 

i I 
Hansen encouraged as many students as possible to enter the tournament,noting that three had registered already. Actually, he said, registration begins as soon as six people can decide upon a name

a 
[ 

Concert tix 
"'There are still good seats available for the MondayL April 16 concert appearance of James Taylor," reported concert coor­dinator Richard Conovan. 
Tickets are available at the Student Union Ticket Office and the ACCTicket Office and will be available through showtime. 
Singer Carly Simon, Taylor's wlfe,/will accompany her husband on the tour, though 'it is uncertain whether she will perform with Taylor, Donovan said. 

LAKESIDE THEATRE PRESENTS Gene Hackman Angel Tomkins Lee Marvin m PRIME CUT Fr1day &. Saturday April 13 & 14 a& 10 pm Holy Cross Hall -­ 
Alumni Club Thurs. :Starling at 9:30 'Costa Del Soi'--WINE TASTING ALSO: BEER SPECIALS 7-8 10 cent Beer 8-9 15 cents Beer 9-10 20 cents Beer 10-11: 30 25 cents Beer Come early & take advantage - 
THE JULIANS INVITE YOU ... TO MEET MRS. ROBINSON AND The Graduate STARRING..... SUNDAY, APRIL 15 Carroll Hall Auditorium Dustin Hoffman Madeleva--SMC and Admission $1.00Anne Bancroft  

fellowship to further art study. She plans to take studio art course s 
WHAT SNOW? and eventually, to teach art on the college level. 
More than 1,800 college seniors 
WHITE SOX TRIP and recent graduates from colleges and universities throughout the United States 


RE-.SCHEDULED
competed for the 100 fellowships awarded this year. 
and reach theit; telephone. in mud." The team is managed b) 
An advance I scouting report, the mustachioed marvel from according to an unidentified source Breen-Phillips, "Mean Mike" claimed one of the three above Becker. teams, "The Conqueror Worms," Hansen promised "some in­look tough on paper. "After all," teresting awards; if not world-wide noted the source, "mud is their recognition" for the eventual kind of environment. Worms liv e champions. 

Debators place third 
Sixty of the best novice debate teams i n the country competed for national ranking this past weekend at the Ballarmine Novice National Invitational in Louisville Ken­tucky. 
Sophomore Jeff Rajehel and Dave Hayes both in their first year of collegiate debate advanced to third in the country only to be stopped by Wake Forest. 
In the preliminary rounds, the Irish gained a 5-1 record, defeating teams from Catholic University, Shepherd College, Emory, Wooster College and Abilene Christian College. The University of Ken­tucky lost to the Irish in octofinals, while the College of Will iam and Mary met the same fate in quar­terfinals. The team lost to Wake J<'orest in the semi-final found in a split decision. The third place ranking put Notre Dame ahead of some of the strongest "debate" schools in the country, including Michigan, Augustana, South Alabama, Virginai, U. of Penn­sylvania and U. of Massachusetts. 
The weekend was also a good one for Notre Dame's freshman debaters. Bill Hillstrom and Nancy Brenner took first place in debate at the Rock Valley College Debate and Forensic Tournament in Rockford Illinois. Their colleagues, Terry Salazar and John Walovich, followed with third in the debate division. Salazar also placed second in Impromptu Speaking, which was part of the Forensic Competition. 
The varsity debators also ended their regular season with victory. Seniors Jack Keeney and JohnBorkowski finished their season with a 3rd place at the Citadel Invitational, held in Charleston, South Carolina on Feb. 23-24 . With a 4-2 record in preliminary rounds, Keeney and Borkowski defeated Tulane in thE: quarterfinals only to lose to the tournament winners, West Georgia, in the semis. Kenney and Borkowski, along with senior Brian Kelly, will receive awards as being the top three debaters on the 1972-73 Irish Squad. 

SMC Danforth winner 
Miss Mary Patricia Q uinlan, a program was established in 1952 
senior at Saint Mary's College, and more than 1,200 of these me~ 
Notre Dame, Indiana, from and women have finished Ph.D. 
Mundelein, Illinois, has won a D degrees and are now teaching in 
anforth Fellowship for advanced colleges and universities. 
study. 
Quinlan intends to apply her 

ND-SMC PRE-EASTER SPRING RETREAT 
an experience In Christian living Saturday, April 14 10 am • 12 midnight SMC Clubhouse 
for more info call: 

Fr. Roger Cormier 5389 
Mary Gail Peterson 4494 
Fr. Tom Stella 7323 or 6536 
by Thurs. Aoril 1 2 
. . The Danforth Fellowships are
stl11 aval1abledesigned to encourage outstanding 

April 15: Sox vs. Kansas City
college graduates who show promise for distinguished careers in college teaching to continue 

Buses will leave Circle at 9:30am Sunday 
their education. 

No need to reconfirm. More seats available too II 
Selection of Danforth Fellows is 



Sign up 12-5 Thurs. & Fri. at the ticket office In Lafortune or call
made annually by a nalional panel of educators , primarily on the 

leo Breen 418 Morrissey 3651 Monte 149 Morrissey 3479
basis of the evident intellectual power of the candidate and his-her 

commitment  to  humane  value&  
and  their  place  in  higher  
education.  To cancel out (Boo) call or come by ticket office  
Over 1,900 Danforth Fellowships  with your receipt.  
have  been  awarded  since  the  

~---~--~-~-----------------~~~ 
• 
• 
Thursday, April 12, 1973 

the observer 
7 







Marketing students enter 
•Y Jayar Dally 

This week marks the completion ,of Notre Dame's tQird entry in Ford Motor Company's · Pinto Project, which -has studies atnumber of different aspects in regard to design of a marketing plan for the Pinto in South Bend. 
For the past three years, Ford along with YouthMark Inc. has sponsored this project, which enables marketing students· and professors from across the nation to combined the theory of the classroom with the design of an actual marketing plan. Two years ago, when the project was first held, Notre Dame won one of the $1000 regional awards. 
Eight Notre .Dame Marketing 
seniors took the project as a· 
special course in Marketing 
Strategy designedsolelyaround the 
Pinto contest. The students are 
Margueritte Crane, Jayar Daily, 
Kevin Hickey, John McEleney, 
Steve Petrucci, Die Rusnak, Dave 
Woods, and Jim Zagate. Dr. Davi 
Appel served as faculty advisor. 
The project at Notre Dame this 
year began in October. 
Because of the size and com­
plexity of the Notre Dame entry 
this year, Dr. David Appel's 
marketing research classes were 
used during the first semester to work on nine specific questions that the project investigated. The questions were the following: 
Marketing research students were divided into nine groups, each doing extensive research, both secondary and primary, in the area assigned.South Bend Demographics and History of Tansportation. The purpose of this study was to find out the demographical characteristics ofconsumers in South Bend as 
comparedwtih the U.S. and also to 
study the evolution of tasnportaion 
in the United states. 
Product Perception and 
Preference. In developing a 
marketing strategy for a product, 
an important area to consider is 
product perception, according to 
the Pinto researchers. To discover 
these perceptions in regard to the 
Hot Line needs help 
by George Brown 
Staff Reporter 

"The users of the Hot Line crisis­intervention service will be many or few depending on how well it is known and supported," stated Fr. David E. Schlaver, Director of volunteer services for the University of Notre Dame. 
The Hot Line crisis phones have been established since September 1, 1972 to provide information, referrals or advice for callers with personal problems. 
Schlaver stated that the Notre Dame-St. Mary's chapter of the Mental Health Association is convinced of the need for this service. "This group provides the majority of the volunteers for the Hotline," he continued. 
Rick Figiola, coordinator in charge of training volunteers for listening at the Hotline, explained the training procedures for each volunteer. "The training is in­formal, " he stated. "Most people who apply expect a classroom situation, but gain their experience in role-playing situations and training situations." 
"What we try to convey, " 
Figiola commented, "is the art of 
listening at the training sessions as 
well as at least 6 hours of listening 
at the phones along with an ex­
perienced volunteer. If the training 
team feels the applicant is ready to 
take on a regular shift at this time, 
he does so." 
Most of the calls received con­
cern drug problems. Most who call 
need someone to talk with to help 
them handle the effects of the 
drug," stated Figiola. If the case 
is serious, a Drug Abuse Rescue 
Team can be sent out to help. If 
more counseling is needed than 
can be given on the phone," he 
continued, "we try to give them a 
proper referral." 
The Hotline service staff's fifty 
full-time volunteer listeners 
donate a minimum of 4 hours 
Conegiate Notes 
Understand all subjects, plays and novels faster! Thousands of topics available within 48 hou~s of mailing Complete with bibliography and footnotes Lowe&! Prices are 
GUARANTEED SEND $1.90 for our latest descriptive Mail-Order Catalogue with Postage-Paid Order Forms too: 
COLLEGIATE RESEARCH 1 N. 13th St. Bldg. Rm 706 Phila. Pa. 19107 HOT·Ll.ttE.lllSI 563,_Jli8 _ 

service per seek. Seventeen part time professional stand-by listerns are on call two or three nights each month. The latter group represents such agencies as the welfare dept, probation dept, mental health center, Northern Indiana Drub Abuse services, Big Brothers and school counselors. 
Six basic training sessions were provided last fall for new listeners. 
Basic training consists of 18 hours training in the art of listening; crisis intervention; specific in­formation on various problems such as alcohol and drugs, sex, 
(e.g. venereal disease, birth control, prlblem pregnancy, homosexuality), suicide, child abuse, marital and other relationships. In addition there is instruction in interviewing techniques and evaluation of situations necessary for making good referrals. Training is done by the Hotline Director, the training staff, and representatives from Planned Parenthood and Family and Children's Center. 
On-going training sessions are provided for volunteers who are already manning phones. These include sessions in Suicide and Drugs, Transactional analysis, Problem Solving and Personal Growth Experiences. 
Hotline works very closely with 
its referral sources to promote the 
services of existing organizations. 
'(continuPd on page 3) 


WhAT'S ThE RELiGiOUS LiFE Lil{E? 
Ask tlte Men Wlto Know 
Coatact: 
Fr. Andrew Ciferwi, 0. Prat11. 
Hely Cross Hall, 107 UIID 

~II: 283-6185 
Ford Pinto three specific groups 
were studied, 1970-1971 Pinto 
owners, 1970-1972 subcompact car 
owners other than Pinto owners, 
and 1970-; 1972 standard size car 
owners. Each group examined the 
prominant attituces and per­
ceptions that were prevalent to 
each specific segments in South 
Bend with the/ intent of identifying 
and analyzing the needs and want 
of each group. 
Sources of Information. This 
project was designed to find out , what sources of information consumers find important in ef­
fecting their purchase decision. 
Purchase Decision Model. The 
purpose of this project was to 
select that behavior mode which 
would best describe purchase 
behavior of automobile purchasers 
in the South Bend mar}Set. 





Pinto project 
Corporate Image. Corporate Image. This project was con­cerned with the question of automotive and!productlmage and its subsequent effect, if any unpon the Ifinal purchase deicsion of .subc~mpact automqdecision 
Salesmen. This project was iesigned to find out from salesmen .vhat different factors they con­sider to be of importance in the sale ofsubcompacts. Factors cush as consumer serviceadvertising effectiveness, and which group/of consumers comprise the market as seen by the salesmen !were developed by this pro-ject. 
Test Drive. This project at­tempted to measure the im­portance of the test drive during the purchase process. The research team had the use of a Pinto Runabout since Novermber that has enabled them to carry out this project. 
.. Mechanics. The intent of this report was to question mechanics and measure their feelings toward the quality aspects of different classes of automobiles. 
1973 Pinto Owners. This project 
was designed to answer three questions about Pinto owners and their 1973 pinto. First, how their Pinto is used from day to day; second howsatisfiedthey ~re with their new Pinto; third, how much it .cos~ owners to operate their new 

NOTICES 
Summer Storage -Reasonable Prices. 6 years experience with 
N.D. New Bldg. High-dry, can pick up -deliver to HaiL Reserve early. Mrs. Cooper 272-3004. 
Elections ft>r GSU Officers this Friday, 12 noon in 127 N.S.H. Manditory attendance for all Dept. Reps. 
Beaux Arts Ball: Fractured Fairy Tales Architecture Bldg, Friday, A$ril13, 10-2 Tickets on sale in the Architecture Library or at the door. 
For information about Gay Awareness Community, Call 7789 W-Th-F. 8-10 pr:n 
Morrissey Loan Fund closing April 27. Pay all outstanding Loans. All unpaid debts will be turned over to Student Accounts with extta $5.00 charge. 
California Club Flight to LA May 16 only $68.30 Badin Travel Agency Sign up deadline Thurs. Apr 12 information 8282, 7080 
Typing -Experienced in essays, dissertations, term papers, theses Phone 232-9061 
Beaux Art Ball, FrancturedFairy Tales : Free far-outs for everyone, la,la,la,la,.... 
NO student and faculty! Because the response was so great to our last 2 adds we are now offering 15 percent off on all tune-ups and other repairs. Call 272-9676 Anytime or stop by Rollin' Wheels Sujoco 17955 State Road 23 (across from Greenwood Shopping Center). 
Reminder : to SMC girls who signed up to abstain from meat for the benefit of the E I Compito Day Care Center; it is TODAY,. FRIDAY AND SATURDAY. 
FOR SALE 
For Sale: 3 eight WK Irish setter pups: AKC Reg. 5464 Marsha 
San sui 4000 pr Advent Spkrs. $375 8944 ERIC 
AKAI 25?00 tape deck and library-$275; DUAL-SHURE 1215 M91ED turntable complete-$105; FISHER XP 55B speakers -$60 pr.; KLH MODEL 27 receiver ­$195; SONY 250 tape deck -$70; 
MEMOREX  1800  tape,  new,  
sealed  -$4.15 ea.  Call  234-2536  
alter 5  

Ping-Pong table. Very good condition, reasonable price 
Please call 233-3893 
For Sale: 1966 Chevy Biscayne Excellent condition -$400. Call Joe 1786 
Must sell! ColorfuL Blizzard totals w marker bindings. 195 em. Used only one season Doug 234­7556 Best offer. 
For Sa_le: New Raleigh bike 3· speed, White Call Ted. 8575 
For Sale -VIVITAR 135mm Telephoto Lens, 2.8 with case. (Fits Nikon mounts) $SO Call Rick B2&4 ­
Two $5.50 James Taylor tidkets ­$10.00 Call 287-6010 
JVcamp, 2 Sansui Speakers worth over $800 Take it away tor $550 Call 1670 
RIDES WANTED 
Ride needed to Midland, Michigan, or anywhere near tri· city area: Next Tuesday or Wednesday 5330 
Horny guys need ride to Chicago to see horny girlfriends. 9806 
Desperately need ride to Con­necticut tor Easter Break. Will share E)(penses and Driving_ Call Mim. 8886 
Need ride to D.C. desperately Call Don, 1059 
Two need ride to PGA, April 16 after 4:00 Call Bob 3537 ro Rick ­3597 
Need ride to NYC on Wed, April 18 Call Joy, 1654 
Ride to East Lansing on April 18 Call 8423 
Need ride to Phila, S. Jersey For Easter-Break. Call Ken 3679 
Need ride to Cleveland for Easter Can leave: Tuesday afternoon, PApril 17. Call Greg 1336 
Need ride to Peoria Friday April 
13. Can leave anytime. Call Matt 6865 
Ride needed to NYC or Coonn. Can leave anytime after April 13th Call Dave 3679 
Ride needed to Washington ­Richmond area anytime after Sunday April 15th. Call MJim 1050 
Two need ride to MILWALKEE Fr•. Apr_ 13...Call Paul--8276 or Rick 8284 
Rice needed -N.Y.c. -L.E. Can leave April 15th Call Jack 8732 
Need ride to Pittsburgh Friday April 13. Call 4648 
Ride needed -East 1-80 to Youngstown Ohio western PA anytime alter Noon Monday 4-16 Call John 8725 
Need lride to Ft. Lauderdale on April 13th or 14th Will share$ and driving Call Goose. 6756 
Ride needed to De-troit (Grosse Point on Tuesday April 17. Will share expenses and driving .. Please call Pete at 8253 
Need ride to Cleveland April 18. ca II Beth or Jan 4679 
WANTED 
Free Ride to Iowa. Thurs. April 19 233-1329 
't Riders wanted East along lnd.­Ohio-Penn. Turnpike to Washington D.C. Leaving Fri. Apr. 13. Call 8283 
Pinto. 

From all of these ,projects ~e, research teamaccumulirted the fmdings to design a marketing strategy for the Pinto in the Soutli Bend market. Some of the findings from these projects include: 
Salesmen often times fail to emphasize the factors that con· sumers ,really consider to be im­portant in the purchase of a sub­compact. The salesman seem to 1concentia-te their selling on the price of the vehicle while the consumers feel that economy oC _ operation is the most important feature of the subcompact. 
The test drive is very iinportant inthe selling !process. In every case the consumers feelings towards the Pinto improved after the test drive. 
Subcompact owners are very interested in the "after sales" offering of the dealer and want to be able to rely on the dealers for dependable servide. 
Three of the factors besides economy of operation, that sub­compact owners like are: style, sportiness, and dependability. 
Judging· of the projects takes place in New York City in early May and the results will be an­nounced by May 12. This year a total of ten regional $1,000 awards will be given and one $5,000 national award. 
Wanted: ONe dirtball tor Beaux Art Ba II publicity stunt_ $10.00 
.Z641L 

3 roommates, wanted, Srs. Large house, great location, huge double, big single. call Denny 3180 or ChriS 233-7931 address 1035 
N.D. Ave. 

Need rider to Lauderdale or that direction-this Thursday?? Larry 3245 
Wanted: Housing ac­commodations for faculty coming for Summer Program in Pastoral and Social Ministry -June 24 July 
21. One family 2 children-One family -6 children; week of July 8 
one family, 4 children. Call Msgr. John Egan's office 283-3293 
Riders needed to D.C. Area leaving Wednesday, April 18. Call 
Steve, 1059  
Housemates  Wanted  tor  the  
Summer.  House  is  walking  
Distance from campus.  Call 233­ 

9616 Ask tor Don or Jack 
Wanted: Nude dancers tor Beaux Art BaiL Call 7644 
We need summer housing tor 4. Will svblet. Call 7812 
Two guys need housemate from Sept 74 thru Dec. 74 1st semester only. Call Rich at 272-8189 
Needed: ride to Detroit on Friday -Call John at :t647 
Wanted: Belly dancers-and topless waitresses for Beau)( Art 
BaiL Call 7644 

Good typist would like to type stucl,ent papers. Call 232-7227 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost: Gold Seiko Watch Reward 
Phone 8845 

Mon, April 9-Lost: Wire-rim­med glasses in Orange case Round shape Cilll zJulie 233-9209 
Lost: brown umbrella at LaCrosse Game last Saturday near Stepan Cntr-Call 5776 Reward. 
lost: plaidfha~in 105 Bus. Bldg 
Call Beth 4679 

PERSONAL 
The New Age of Decadence 
endorses the BEAUX ARTS BALL Friday the 13th 9:30-2:00 
To a very much .loved organ: I'd iike to see an A on a history and soc test, But a smile on your face is by far the best_ 
Poopie, Happy 20th -Hope the Bengals don't keep you from making it to 21! Your no. 1 fan. MAK 
FOR RENT 
Room for girls-Close to N.D. Call Mrs. Cooper 272-3004 
Adjoining 2and 4 bedroom homes tor rent summer or fall. Fully furnished. Near campus. Call collect 715-842-4463 
4 bedroom House, wall to wall carpeting, Completely furnished, near campus, Grads only. 289-2461 
Want privacy? Rooms $40 mo. 233-1329 
..... 
Thursday, April 12, 1973
8 the observer 





Culveyhouse picks Irish golf program 
....
-----------------------~---~-­
i 
• 
t 
I I 
i l ' 
There aren't many things Jim Babe Ruth League baseball (he Culveyhouse hasn't accomplished stole 56 straight bases over a three­in his extensive athletic career. year span) and you can see that But there is one goal he has yet to Jim had a slight problem. 
achieve. "I had a few decisions to make," 
"For as long as I can remember he explains. "In Indiana, tennis is there have been two wishes I've played in the fall so I had to choose really wanted to come true," says between that and football. Then in the Merrillville, Ind. (Gary the spring it had to be either suburb) freshman. "I had the first baseball or golf. But in the end I 
one granted when I was accepted had to pick one to concentrate on 
at Notre Dame. And the other is to for college. That was the easiest qualify for the NCAA Golf Tour­decision. Golf has always been my nament." favorite sport." 
If his list of honors to date has It's surprising, but golf has also any bearing, Culveyhouse figures been a sport in which Jim has been to fulfill that second dream outstanding even during the sometime during his four seasons .mmmer. He is a two-time winner 
with the Irish golf team . of the Hammond Times Junior 
Jim was an offensive ad Invitational, the youngest player defensive halfback for the Andrean ever to finsish in the top 15 of the High School football team and Chicago District Golf Assocaiton 
lettered for the basketball squad Medal Play Tournament (12th in his last two years. He reached the 1971), the 1972Gary City Champion 
climax of his cage career when he and a record holder <five-under) in was named All-America at the ripe the Lake Porter Juniors Tourn­old age of 12. ament. 
Jim captained his high school "I set that record in the tennis team as a junior and senior, semifinals but I wound up losing when he was also the singles and the tournament," Culveyhouse double champ the conference and remembers. "I am a loading-dock doubles · titlest in the city. His worker during the summer and I 
singles record for three years of have to work from 6 p.m. to 6 a.m. varsity competiton was 41-6. That meant that I hadn't had any 
Those distinctions were in­sleep for three-and-a-half days. significant compared to his golf "I was paired against my ar­record. He was named all-state 
chrival in the finals. I had beaten twice, was conference champ as a him in close matches every other senior and team captain for three time we played. That day I got to 
years. Add to that his involvement the course a little early and was 
in American Legion and Senior waiting for him on the bench fast 
Bob Roemer ~======================================================================================================:::xt 
Captain's Corner 
================:::=============================================================================Come on, fans! 
It is difficult to resist thinking about how baseball can be transformed from an outdoor sport designed to be played only in favorable conditions to a sport performed either inside or under the worst inclement weather. Notre Dame is certainly not the ideal location to attempt to participate in the "nationa I pastime", and it is at times like these last few days when a baseball player considers changing sports. The beseball team has looked toward the start of the home season with great anticipation and con­fidence. 
It will be the beginning of a very successfull campaign, and it is a disappointment to have the Michigan State games postponed after having already been deprived of two potential victories over Hillsdale last week. We do have 26 scheduled games remaining, including a Sunday doubleheader with Xavier this weekend, though, so there isn't any need to be overly mournful of our cancelled games. 
Actually, there is reason for some cautious optimism in regard to the Notre Dame baseball team. Wemanagedto squeeze in two games during a cold and snowy weekend in Wisconsin, and although we only split the doubleheader, jVery much improved over our performances in Tulsa during vacation. We received excellent pitching from Mike Riddell and Riel{ Eich and hit well considering the adverse playing conditions. 
The NCAA tournament invitation 1is the goal of the baseball team, just as post-season competition is the ambition of every other Notre Dame representative. The NCAA tournament gives a team the opportunity to match their abilities with the best from across the country, and it is a great incentive to a team that happens to start the season with a mediocre record since all past performances are forgotten with the start of post season competition. The greatest encouragement to the baseball team is the fact that we have yet to play any of our District IV playoff rivals. The NCAA District IV tournament will consist of four teams-the winner of the Big Ten conference, the winner of the Mid-American conference, and two independents from the area. We are just beginning to play the teams that will make up the NCAA tournament. We will directly encounter Xavier, Cincinnati, Detroit, and Illinois State-they are our primary competition. 
We will meet the best teams of the Mid-American and Big Ten con­ferences and it will put the Irish in good position if we can do well with these teams, especially those that end up winning the conferences. We will have no competition with the teams that we met in Tulsa, so that our 2-8 record on the spring trip should have little effect on our NCAA chances. The important consideration is that we play well the remainder of the season, which will. once aszain, bring me to a plea for fan support. 
We have six home encounters with teams that will be vital to our NCAA consideration. We play independents Xavier, Detroit, and Cincinnati as well as Mid-American power Western Michigan and small college op­ponents Butler and Valparaiso. We must win these games, and fan support is essential. Notre Dame teams are well known for being amazingly difficult to beat at home. This is because of the greatness in fan support which drives the performers to play to the best of their abilities at all times We won every single home game that we played in 1.970 !ind received an NCAA bid. We can repeat this performance a gam this year with the help of the loyal Notre Dame fans.i 
Any fans taking the time to watch an ND baseball game will not be disappointed. The atmosphere is definitely better than that of the classroom, especially with this season's addition of Notre Dame "bat girls'. Likewise, the fan can even bring his own "refreshments" if he (or she> desires. The weather has not dampened the enthusiasm of the Notre Dame baseball team and I am hopeful that it will not effect the fan en­thusiasm, either. We will play a home game this spring, most likely this Sunday afternoon against Xavier. It could mean the start of a successful campaign heading toward the District IV tournament bid, with the possibility of an eventual spot in the College World Series. 
asleep. Needless to say, I lost the  
tournament."  
Jim will have the same job this  
summer and when he isn't  
squeezing in a round of golf he'll be  
toting someone else's clubs.  
"I've never had a golf lesson in  
my life and I have to thank cad­ 
dying for that," he contends. "You  
can pick J,P a lot of faults and a few  
pointers watching somebody else  
play. My dad was the one who got  
me interested in caddying initially.  
He told me it would be a good way  
to learn to deal with people and to  
see how they react. He was right."  
Jim is a freshman on a veteran  
Notre Dame golf team. But he has  
risen quickly to the top and plays in  
the number-one position for the  
Irish.  
"Jim has been an inspiration to  
the entire team," praises Coach  Vt>rsatile freshman  Jim Culveyhouse settled on golf and Notre  
Father Clarence Durbin. "Unless  Dame when choosing  his collegia te athletic career.  
a blizzard kept him from it he was out hitting the balls every day since our Christmas vacation. That headstart helped him on our  spring trip and now everyone on the team soshoot for."  he's given mething to  The entire squad will be shooting for the Tennessee Invitational title Thursday and Friday in Knoxville.  




Little T' -watches improveznents 
by Vic Dorr Sports Editor 
The cold didn't make any dif­ference. Neither did the wind. Neither did the fact that the workout was stretching itself to the two-hour mark. Mike Townsend, Notre Dame's defensive co­captain, was enjoying himself while he practiced. 
The junior defensive back was bounding around in the deep secondary, reacting when he missed a chance at an in­terception, and reacting even more when he made off with an errant pass. 
Townsend, who last year paced the Irish deep defenders with 10 interceptions, had good reasons for his high spirits. His first stolen pass of the afternoon's scrimmage session was one of them, but the defensive squad he was playing with was the biggest reason. 
l<'or the "Little T" is one of seven starters who return from last year's defensive platoon, and as the co-captain for the coming campaign, he's getting as much enjoyment as he can out of wat­ching his squad develop. 
Prior to the start of spring prc­tice '73, ND head coach Ara Parseghian viewed the early workouts as a base for "offensive refinement and defensive im­provement," and Townsend, already, can see that developing. 
"We're only about one-quarter of the way through spring practice," he said, "and after break we'll be about half-way done. The snow has gotten us down this week, but we're still in pretty good shape. Most of the offense is back, and the defense too, and right now the offense is gradually improving. The defense is still ahead at this moment, but defense doesn't take as much timing as offense does, and it's usual for us to be ahead at this time of year. By the end of practice, though, the offense will be where Ara wants it to be." 
But Parseghian's plans for his defensive team sometimes fall short of being completely en­joyable, even for a guy like Mike Townsend. This year, those plans involve a lot of learning, a lot of familiarization, and a lot of changes. 
"We're working on quite a few new things," admitted Townsend. "We're using a lot of combination defenses, and a lot of defenses that involve playing one side zone and one side man-to-man. There's a lot of learning involvedtlere, because we played mostly zone last year, and I've never seen anything like this before in college ball." 
The hoped-for effect of the 
revamped style of defense is in­creased quickness and pursuit, and the defensive co-captain is con­fident of that effect coming about. 
"We are going to be quicker next season," he said. "Instead of being big, we're going to be quicker and faster. When a team tries to run around end on us next year, there are going to be more than one or two gusy out there-­there are going to be six or seven. 
"No team is going to beat us on quickness alone this sea soP." 
Along with learning the new formations and alignments, Townsend is also watching as the Irish coaches try to replace the four missing members of last year's defensive team. Two linebackers, a rover-back, and a defensive tackle graduate this May, but their replacements, according to Townsend, are already feeling at home with the number-one defensive team. 
"I think the new guys are working out fine," he said. "(Mikel Fanning is good at tackle (although the race for that slot will be clouded in September, when Steve Niehaus returns to action), learning--and enjoying 

ARTS AND. LETTERS 
l 

INTENT FRESHMAN 
Meet Your Maior Night for the 
GENERAL PROGRAM OF LIBERAL STUDIES 

7 pm Thursday April 12 11 0 O'Shaughnessy 
Cinema '73 presents: 


"Breathless" 
by Godard 
t--=------=-------.-------.. ·----­

Eng. Aud. 8 & 1opm $1°0 : Patrons Free·-· 
CONTINENTAL 

Flying West? 
CONTINENTAL FLIES TO ,JO MAJOR WESTERN DESTINATIONS 
The Proud Bird with the Golden Tail G CONTINENTAL AIRLINES 
Greg Collins is doing well at linebacker-he probably could have played last year--and Gary Potempa, he's one of the hardest hitters on the team. I mean, that man kills. Bob Zanot is just a freshman, but he plays like a junior or senior, so I don't think we'll have to worry about the changes that much next year." 
One thing the Irish gridders have had to worry about this spring is 
South Bend's weather. It's been almost exclusively bad during the first weeks of spring practice, and has already cost the ND squad several filmed scrimmage sessions. But, says Townsend, there's no question about making up the lost time. 
"We have lost a lot of time to the weather," he laughed, "but it doesn't make that much dif­ference. On the days we do practice, Ara will make sure that we get in shape for spring ball." 
And even on those days, Mike Townsend will still be watching, 







