On The Inside 

WNDU License challenged ... page 3 ...pag~ 5 
Paul Simon 


Vol. VIII, No. 38 serving the notre dome -st. mary's community Thursday, November 1, 1973 
Important Watergate tapes lost 
WASHINGTON <UPI) Tapes of the two Watergate­related conversations the White House now says were not recorded might have proved or disproved President Nixon's innocence in the bugging scandal. 
Apparently lost to history is vital recorded evidence that could have settled whether two key figures in the case -John 
W. Dean III and John N. Mitchell -told the truth under oath about the affair. 
At an emergency court hearing Wednesday, Chief U.S. District Judge John J. Sirica disclosed he had been advised by the White House that two of the nine Watergate tapes Nixon agreed last week to surrender under court order "do not exist." 
Evidence about the conversa­tions was crucial to solving the mysteries of Watergate: One was a four-minute telephone conversation Nixon had with Mitchell, his campaign mana­ger, just three days after the June 17, 1972, bugging arrests; the other was a 55-minute meeting Nixon had with Dean on April 15 this year, shortly before the President fired Dean as White House counsel. 
White House lawyer J. Fred Buzhardt said the Nixon con­versation with Mitchell "ap­parently was made from a phone extension" in the White House that was "not hooked into the recording system." 
He said the Nixon-Dean meeting of April 15 "was not recorded due to a malfunction of the system or a basic inadequacy of the system." 
Both were among nine tapes of Nixon's conversations with former White House aides and political advisers which special Watergate prosecutor Archibald Cox had fought in court to obtain before the President ordered him fired Oct. 
20. Three days later, Nixon capitulated and agreed to give the gapes to Sirica for private review and possible use by the Watergate grand jury. 
Sen. Sam Ervin, D.-N.C., chairman of the Senate Watergate Committee, called it a "curious" development. "If I was called on to produce the tapes, I would have reported that I didn't have them if I didn't have them," he said. 
Sen. Lowell P. Weicker, R.­Conn., said it was "obvious that it's pretty important stuff that's missing." 
Outside the courtroom, reporters asked Buzhardt: "Do you think the public will believe this?" 
"I don't know, "hre plied as he headed for a waiting White House limousine. 
Cox, testifying before the Senate Judiciary Committee, said that during the April 15 meeting with the President, Dean was believed to have provided a "detailed version of the alleged cover-up." 
Cox said he did not believe those with whom he dealt at the White House about the tapes knew anything about their condition. "I feel quite sure they did not know, he said. He added, "Mr. Buzhardt told me on several occasions that he had not listened to the tapes." 
Dean himself told Ervin's committee in June he suspected the April 15 meeting was taped because Nixon had asked him "leading questions" about a cover­up. 
Also, he said, Nixon got out of his chair at one point, walked to the corner of the office and said in "a barely audible tone" that he had been foolish to discuss clemendy for Watergate conspirator E.Howard Hunt Jr. with former 
White House adviser Charles W. 
Colson. 

Dean also quoted Nixon as 
saying he had "only been joking" 
during an earlier conversation in 
saying it would be no problem to 
raise $1 million to buy the silence 
of the Watergate defendants. 

Dean testified he wan't sure 
whether an April 15 tape existed, 
"but if it does and has not been 
tampered with and is a complete 
transcript of the entire con­
versation that took place in the 
President's office, I think that this 
committee should have that tape 
because I believe that it would 
corroborate many of the things 
that this committee has asked me 
to testify about." 

When Mitchell testified before 
the committee, he said he never 
volunteered--and the President 
never asked for information about 
the Watergate break-in. 

Sirica said he learned of the 
nonexistent tapes when Buzhardt 
met with him Tuesday to discuss 
arrangements for turning over the 
tapes. • 

"I felt these facts and cir­cumstances..should be made a matter of public record as soon as possible," Sirica said. 
After Sirica recessed the hour­long hearing until Thursday morning, Buzhardt told reporters it had been discovered only recently--he could not say exactly when-but the two tapes did not exist. 
During questioning at his Senate hearing, Cox said he had "no prior knowledge" about the missing tapes, but recalled a telephone conversation with the U.S. at­torney handling the Vesco prosecution in New York City in which Mitchell and former Treasury Secretary Maurice Stans have been indicted. Cox said the attorney told him of a conversation with Buzhardt about two tapes, one purportedly made on April 15, 1972. and the other on Feb. 28, 1973. Cox said the attorney quoted Buzhardt as saying 
"You know, we sometimes have mechanical problems" with the tape-recording faciities. Cox said he and the attorney "both agree that the conversation had not been long enough to draw an inference." 
After Sirica 's startling an­nouncement, Secret Service agent Raymond 0. Zumwalt was called to the witness stand for testimony about the White House taping system-which was ordered shut down on July 18. That was two days after its existence was disclosed at the Senate Watergate hearings by former White House aide Alexander Butterfield. 
Under questioning by Watergate prosecutor Richard Ben-Veniste, Zumwalt said a "full inventory" of existing tapes was made before they were turned over to a "General Bennett" who worked "somewhere on the White House staff." 
Zumwalt said logs were kept indicating who removed tapes from a guarded storage room in the Executive Office Building adjacent to the White House, how many were taken and how long they were gone. 
"Were there any procedures to see if the tapes had been altered," Ben-Veniste asked. 
"No," Zumwalt replied. 

"Were there any procedures to verify if they were the same tapes that left?" 
"No." "Was there any indication of copies being made?" 
"No." 

Zumwalt said tapes had been signed out no more than a half­(continued on page 3) 
Hesburgh speaks at Bulla Shed 
by Howard Wood Staff Reporter 

Women at Notre Dame highlighted the discussions between Fr. Theodore Hesburgh and students at the Bulla Shed vesterday. 
At the informal luncheon and talk-session, Hesburgh commented that discrimination against minorities in hiring isn't right. He said women will receive "preferential treatment.'to even the numbers between men and women faculty members. Presently only "nine per cent of the Notre Dame faculty is composed of women". 
"Until1968, there were no women professors at Notre Dame". Hesburgh noted that the university wants the department chairmen who do the actual hiring, to hire more women. 
"This year, 25 per cent of the new faculty hired were women. There is no quota set but the university wants more women faculty mem­bers." 
Hesburgh listed teaching, researching ability and interest in Notre Dame as the three criteria used for hiring faculty members. 
Responding to questions about civil rights, Hesburgh noted that all minorities face discrimination in jobs. As an example, he mentioned a speech he gave at a IBM luncheon in New York last Tuesday. "All the department heads (research, sales, manufacturing) were present. Among these 4U people, where was only one woman and no blacks." 
A special problem concerning women students is coming to Notre Dame, pointed out Hesburgh. "Among the four undergraduate colleges, ap­proximately 60 per cent of the girls intend to enter the college of Arts and Letters. Ap­proximately 20 per cent intend to enter Business Aduministration and even fewer will enter science or engineering. <Hesburgh could not cite the exact figures for this problem.) 
"There is concern that if girls do not major in the three smaller colleges, they may be in danger because of low enrollment" said Hesburgh. "Giving preference to those ap­plicants intending to major in science or engineering would not be the solution because so many change majors after arrival. 
Reacting to the current problems in Washington, Hesburgh stated, "To govern, you need the confidence of the people. No one can govern people if he is not respected." 
"There is the feeling that President Nixon is guilty because he is hiding the tapes. If he is clean, he should have revealed those tapes long ago.'' 
"This is a crucial time in politics because Tcm:=~il Fahmi, the Egyptian Emissary and 
Golda Meir nre coming to visit President 
Nixon," Hesburgh commented. 
Answering a wide variety of questions, 
Hesburgh said the day will come when priests 
can marry. ''In certain situations, such as being 
in the jungles of Africa, marriage could be the 
only salvation," he stated. 
Hesburgh added he sees no reason why women 
cannot become priests. There is no rule that 
prevents women from becoming priests. 
In regards to the victory over Southern Cal, Hesburgh called it "a great game." Referring to the "enterprising young men selling pieces of the goal post," he said, "no student should have to pay because everyone at Notre Dame has paid for them. These students shouldn't sell what they don't own. Students should only pay for the sawing.'' 
Fr. Hesburgh was the first guest at the new Bulla Shed bi-monthly luncheon. There were about 60 students in attendance. 
Fr. Tom Stella, director of Bulla Shed, Chris Galla12:her and Kevin McCormich are the organizers of the luncheon program. 
This program is organized as a service to the ND..SMC community to offer an opportunity for closer contact, and an exchange of ideas. 
...............................................................i~ll· ­
...........~:•; 

}. the ob.server 


warld briefs 

BALTIMORE < UPI>-Spiro T. Agnew paid his $10,000 federal fine for income tax evasion Wednesday, U.S. Attorney George Beall not~d Agnew _re~ainson probation for three years, "obligated to mamtam good behavior and not run afoul of any federal or state criminal statues." 
WASHINGTON <UPI>-Senate investators charged Wednesday that at least $110,000 of_ J:_>resid~nt Ni~on's campaign funds were spent on pobbcal d1rty _tncks­not counting the costs of the Watergate buggmg. 
WASHINGTON <UPI>-Reflecting a relaxation of Middle East tensions, the United States Wednesday cancelled the last traces of the worldwide U.S. military alert ordered last week. 
Only the U.S. 6th Fleet in the Mediterranean, composed of some 60 ships and 30,000 men, remains on alert now, the Pentagon said. 
LONDON <UPI>-Western sources said Wednesday the Arabs are seeking to impose a naval blockade on the Red Sea to prevent strategic supplies from reaching Israel's southern port of Eilat. The sou~ces speculated this might be one reaso~ why th«: Umted States has ordered an aircraft earner and s1x other ships to the Indian Ocean. 
an campu• taday 
3:30 p.m.--seminar, "the logic of thermodynamics" rm. 269 chem. engineering bldg. 
7 p.m.--lecture, "michel butor," stapleton lounge 
7:30 p.m.--lecture, "the abortion controversy," carroll hall 
8 and 10 p.m.--film, m-a-s-h, engineering aud., $1.00 
8: 15 p.m.--recital, paula homer and ralph bruneau, little theater, smc 
8:30 p.m.--meeting, charismatic renewal, holy cross 
hall, nd 
University comptroller hits pedestrians 
by Terry Keeney Staff Reporter 
Four persons were injured in ahit and run accident behind Dillon Hall at 5:10 p.m. Saturday af­
ternoon. Skip Horne, age 18, a student at 
the University of Cincinnati, was treated at St. Joseph Hospital for Hetoma of the arm and released .. Robert Miller, age 23, of Port­smouth, Ohio, had an x-ray taken of his left leg and was released. 
Also taken to St. Joseph Hospital, but untreated were C. R. Smitt of Portsmouth, Ohio, who suffered a bruised hip; and his daughter, Tina Smitt, who sustained a bruise on her left leg. 
According to the Security Report of the accident the victims were walking west on the north side of Dorr Road behind Dillon Hall when they were struck by a red Pontiac also going west on Dorr Road. 

Edward Barrett of 512 Angela Blvd. who was driving east on Dorr Road, witnessed the car with its right wheels off the roadway and then watched as the car ac­celerated going west. After driving on further, Barrett stopped and took the injured parties to the hospital.
The Security Report states that 
the driver of the car was Richard 
M. Lynch, comptroller of the university. Lynch said he was driving west on Dorr road at about 20 mph when .he saw several persons walking ahead of him. He honked his horn, turned to the left side of the road and continued down the road. 
Lynch said he was unaware of the accident until he was informed by Michael Doherty of Waltham, Maine. Doherty had witnessed the accident and had pursued Lynch's car from Dillon until curbing him in the vicinity of Lyons Hall. Lynch did admit hearing noises as he passed the people in the road­way. 
ND Security found no in­toxicating beverages in Lynch's possession although Lynch ad­
'mitted having a few drinks after 

Student body destroys .·goalpost 
RETREAT-Nov. 9-11 
by Jim Donathen Staff Reporter Last Saturday, a jubilant student body managed to uproot and dismantle the goal post at the north end of our hallowed· stadium. Some twenty students then delivered it to the most ap­propriate place on campus -the steps of the Administration Building. "We left it on the steps, said Bob Thibodeau. "But when a few of us 
returned a half hour later, it was 
gone!"
And thus commenced the 
mystery of the missing goal post. 
The whereabouts of the ten-foot 
post and crossbar remained a 
mystery until residents of St. Ed's 
observed pieces of this precious 
memento being carried about the 
hall. It was only the unmistakable 
sound of a hack saw that betrayed 
its hiding place, room 126. 
Obtaining a souvenir piece of the 
modern day goal post is no easy 
task. According to the last report, 
it was taking strong a!:med 
students an average of forty-five 
minutes to successfully penetrate 
the steel post.
A resident of 126 confirmed the 


ENJOY FRIDAY AND SATURDAY NIGHT A 




LOUIE'S BAR 
744 N. Notre Dame 
Food ----Great Drink 
celebrate after the game till?? 
Welcome Notre Dame Parents! ! 
ROLLIE STAIR, CSC (Asst. Publisher -Ave Maria Press) 
THEME: The Person of Jesus 
PLACE: Old College 
A fee of $5 ($3 non-refundable deposit) will be requested. 
Sign up in the Campus Ministry Office in the Library -103 
Students make off with goal post. 
rumoc~t~-~~ur~g~~ 
their group on the steps .of the 
Dome while they were in the 
process of cutting the crossbar in 
half. Despite, being somewhat 
intoxicated <and who wasn't>, he 
distinctively recalls the president 
saying : "Make sure I get a piece ·of it." 
Well, Fr·: Hesburgh, this reporter 
hopes that you have received. your 
souvenir, for the once mighty 
target of Bob Thomas, has been 
effectively reduced to but a 
shadow of its former glory. 
the game at the University Club. 
No charges have been brought against the driver of the hit and run vehicle. 
The Observer is publiShed' daily during the college semester except vacations by the stuoents of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S8 per semester ($14 per year) from The Obs_erver Box Q, Notre Dame, lndtana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 


~-----------~~======================~~ 


TUTORING PROGRAM TICKET EXCHANGE 


NO-NAVY GAME 
.LAST DAY TO TURN IN TICKETS!! \ 
Second floor ticket window ACC 9am • 4pm SMC girls may turn in tickets during dinner hour at SMC Dining· Hall. QUESTIONS-Call Art, 233-1745 Mary Ann, 5731 or Dan, 7966 
' 

700 children are depending on the Notre Dame student body. Let's not disappoint them. 
T ............._ •. ··-··--L--• ~L--L---··--IE 

WNDU broadcast rights disputed 
by Tony Proscio 

Staff Reporter The Mexican-American Council, a South Bend organization for Chicano civil rights, is challenging the right of WNDU-AM to bro 1dcast. In a Petition to Deny License before the Federal Communications Commission, the council has charged WNDU with "indifference to the needs and interests of the Spanish-speaking community" in the area of broadcasting. WNDU, which is not affiliated with the university or the student body, is the second local station to undergo a license challenge from the Mexican-American Council 
<MAC). 

"Some time ago, we got together and bough air time on WJVA," explained Fr. Robert Baker, diocesan vicar for the Spanish­speaking community and resident assistant at St. Joseph Hall. "Thepurpose of the program of the program was to inform people of things that were going on in the community, as well as op­portunities for education, where to go for Social Security, what to do about food stamps, the Better Business Bureau and so on." 
The program called Informing the People, specialized in in­formation but included music,he said. 
"Whey they <MAC) ran out of money, they asked WSBT for free time. WSBT game them an hour on Sunday night, then increased it to an hour and a half," he noted. 
WJVA's license was then challenged early this year because of their eefusal to provide free time. When the station arranged a Saturday morning broadcast, the chicano group turned to WNDU, Baker continued. 
"We have scheduled several programs in the past that relate to Mexican Americans," <:ontended Bazil O'Hagen, WNDU vice­president. "We have not had a 
Hallovveen spirits alive at SMC 
by David Lee 
Staff Reporter 

Amid all the decor of demons and witches and goblins, there were happy spirits at the SMC dining hall this past Halloween evening. According to Tom Novak, an SMC food service manager, St. Mary's student government and dining hall service co-sponsored Halloween dinner activities. 
In addition , to the customary Halloween decorations, there was a popcorn machine, a costume 
contest, and an auction for the Another highlingt of the evening United Fund. Novak stated that the 
was the costume contest. Four auction was the special bonus of cash prizes were given for the best the evening. Donations that had 
costumes, which ranged from a been collected from around town scarecrow to hell's angels. and school were being auctioned First place was awarded to off in the center of the dining hall, Margie Fuchs, a junior psychology he said. The students were really major, who dressed up as a 

Arabs seeking naval blockade 
By JOSEPH W. GRIGG 
LONDON <UPI) -Westei'Q sources said Weqnesday the Arabs are seeking to impose a naval blockade on the Red Sea to prevent strategic supplies from reaching the Israel's southern port of Eilat. 
The diplomatic and defense sources speculated this might be one reason why . the United States has ordered the aircraft carrier Hancock and six other ships to the Indian Ocean. 
The blockade, the sources said, apparently is designed to prevent oil and other supplies reaching the southern port of Eilat on the Gulf of Aqaba on the Red' Sea. A large proportion of Israel's imports, particularly from Africa and the Far East, reach her through the port. 
It was the blockading of Eilat by the late Egyptian President 
Watergate tapes missing 
(continued from page 1) 
dozen times, and that the number removed at any one time varied from one tape to as many as 15 or 
20. The longest time any was gone, he said, was "under a week." 
Zumwalt said he did not know which individuals might have heard the tapes, although But­terfield had listened to one of them in his presence. He said he had Pot seen the log since the Secret Service lost possession of the tapes last July. 
Former White House chief of 

'Spirits' enjoy Halloween party. 
responding added. 

While accepting the prize, Ms. Fuchs reacted to the crowd's cheers by appropriately acting out the part of the monster. When later asked about the reason for her participation in the contest, she responded that she did it all in the spirit of Halloween. 
Dilomatic sources said this
Gamal Abdel Nasser in May, 
1967, that sparked the Six-Day 
War  soon  afterwards.  
Egypt  announced  earlier  this  
week  that  the  southern  en­ 
trance  to  the  Red  Sea,  the  
straits  of  Bab  el  Mandeb,  was  

closed to all Israeli-bound ships, including oil tankers. 
In Cairo, the Middle East News Agency was reported here to have said, "Israel faces a sea blockade, which is causing her great economic and political losses." 
Diplomatic sources here said Israel is unlikely to accept such a blockade following the Middle East cease-fire on other fronts. 
Israel also has said any ultimate Middle East peace settlement must include provi­sion for complete freedom of navigation on international waterways. 
staff H.R. Haldeman has testified that he listened to two tapes--i>ne recorded Sept. 15, 1972, and the other of a March 1973 meeting­both before and after he resigned from the President's staff. 
Sen. James L. Buckley, R­
N. Y., said disclosure of the missing tapes had "dramatical­ly shifted the burden of proof" to the President. "As of this moment, President Nixon has the clear burden of satisfying the American people that he has been speaking the truth," he said. 
regularly-scheduled program in 
Spanish, however. I can't see the 
advantage of having the same 
program on a group of stations 
(referring to WSBT and WJVA). 
Tjhere is advantage to variety." 
The station's approach, he ex­plained, is to schedule a bilingual program geared to both Spanish­and English-speaking minorities. Although plans for such a program are underway, he said, there has been no response from MAC and the Petition to Deny License has not been withdrawn. 
"We've modified our License Renewal Application to the FCC," he continued, "to provide for some programming in response to the need they <MAC> brought up. We are currently making arrangements for a program produced by someone with con­nections with the Mexican­American people, understand their culture and speaking their language, but this person, as in all our programs, would be an em­ployee of ours, receiving, we hope, full cooperation of the Mexican-American Council." 
O'Hagen added that the program is expected to include the same kind of information used on In­forming the Peopleboradcasts, but should become a "more effective service" because of its bilingual format. 
The proposed program program was outlined in an Application Revision submitted last August to the FCC by station General Manager William Hamilton. Calling MAC requests "unac­ceptable" and "excessive in light of interestsof other segments of the public to be served," WNDU proposed the bilingual program and charged that the Petition t<> Deny License is "without merit 
... and should be dropped." 
Ramon Rodriguez, anchorman for Informing the People on WSBT, expressed the chicano com­munity's dissatisfaction with the station's compromise. "The community wants and needs a program in Spanish. We should try to give them a program in Spanish," he said. 


Campus 'notables' lead senior march on Friday 
would include not only the Suez Canal, closed since the 1967 war, but also the straits of Tiran, which provide the direct sea approach to Eilat, and the straits of Bab el Mandeb. 

by Judy Rauenhorst Staff Reporter 

Tradition will march on Friday, as ND and SMC seniors begin their celeb1ated journey to their last pep rally. 
Hitting the local popular bars, the Senior Death March begins at noon on Friday. Chris "Hawk" Stevens, organizer of the Senior Class activity, set the schedule as follows: 
Leave Circle: 12:15 
The Library: 12:30 -1:45 
Nicky's: 2:50-3:20 
Corby's: 3:30-5:00 
Senior Bar: 5:00-6:45 
Pep Rally : 7:00 

Jerry Samaniego, senior class president, said Sweeney's will not be included after traditionally marching there for 30 years. "Sweeney is afraid he would not be able to accommodate such a large crowd,-,· Samaniego explained. ~ince Sweeney's is not on the itinerary, there will be no buses, 
Fr. Hesburgh speaks at Bulla Shed luncheon. 
"25 cent pints are being offered at all bars if everyone has a good time. If it gets out of· hand, bargains will be cut off," Stevens said. This rate lasts only during the scheduled time for the mar­chers. 
'"The March has most recently become a· Fall tradition. If we get enough drunks then we will plan anothr one for the Spring," Stevens said. · Samaniego added, "It is a good time for all Seniors to get together before their last football 
game."  ·  
Many  campus  notables  are  
expected  to  lead  the  march.  

Among them are Duff, Jerry Bradley, "Boots" Lange, Mike "Munk" Hinga, Anne "Queen of Corby's" Fisher, Little Tommy Ross, Ed Garbarino, H-Man, Ray "Pollack" Jablonski, "Chief" Devcich, Fred Manley and Tommy Mashenga. 
A special guest appearance by the Knaked Klunker is planned for one of the bars. 





The Nixon 

Editor: Tragedy 
Mr. J. Napier's column, "Im­peachment on Suspicion," which appears in today's issue of the Observer, misunderstands the mechanics of the process of im­peachment. Rhetorically listing a number of issues which have raised serious doubts about Mr. Nixon's conduct, and using the heavy club of irony to beat down the straw men whom he identifies as "impeachers," Mr. Napier likens the impeachment movement to a witch hunt, and regrets that "suspicion" seems to be the "impeachers'" only motive. 
The Constitution itself provides the machinery of impeachment for the removal from office, under certain specified conditions, of the President and other officers of the Federal Government. A bill of impeachment passed by the House of Representatives constitutes an indictment. This indictment is then prosecuted and tried by the Senate. Impeachment per se does not imply a presumption of guilt. It implies only that there is suf­ficient warrant, in the estimation of the House of Representatives, to initiate trial proceedings. In this sense, every judicial proceeding involving the criminal law begins on the basis of "suspicion"; it remains for the adversary dialectic of the trial to determine guilt or innocence. 
Syllogisms invented by Mr. 

Napier and Mr. Cox's firing are not 
sufficient grounds for im­
peachment. What is in question is 
Mr. Nixon's Constitutional 
HARK, Yal CAN'T AFRJI(P 10 CARI<Y ON ABOt/T!*IN6 COHPR0/1/SCP 8Y MOST 

• [)() '1'0IJ KNOW HOIAJ 11l/CH IT 
COSTS JlJST TO SIIRV!VE 7li£5E PAYS?/ f00/1 HOI/SIN6, 
CAR!!. 


the drastic. A loss of respect for Ross stated, " ...so far as I am political institutions, turmoil and concerned, though a Republicanchaos would be certain to ac­and opposed to Mr. Johnson and company any majority-approved his policy, he shall have as fair a vote for impeachment. To a large trial as an accused man ever had extent, domestic government on earth." functions, especially in the And years later, "In a largelegislative branch, would find sense, the independence of the themselves at least curtailed. The executive office as a Coordinate foreign service, a direct dependent branch of the government was on of the executive branch, would trail .. .lf...the President must step
immediately find itself reeling down... a disgraces man and a under the consequences of the political outcast...upon insufficient leaderless void which the im­proofs and from partisan con­peachment of the President would siderations, the office of President precipitate. And finally, the every would be degraded, cease to be a day citizen would feel all these coordinate branch of the govern­
forces converging and pressing ment, and ever after subordinated obligation to "take Care that the I agree with Mr. Napier that "Our upon him. 
to the legislative will ... This 

Laws be faithfully executed," and republic needs neither" of those. Since impeachment is the first government had never faced sohis oath "to the best of my Ability, The whole sorry affair is a step inthe most drastic recourse of insidious a danger..." (to) preserve, protect, and defend tragedy, whose repercussions will our checks and balances system, 
Wade Mayberry

the Constitution of the United be felt throughout the subsequent and since the consequences of States." The Cambodian bombing, history of this nation. I hope Mr. impeachment are so grave, the the ITT case, the Hughes affair, Nixon will be able to submit to the congress should only seek the And Again,the Vesco affair, the impoundment one unequivocal form of legal impeachment of the President if it 
of funds, the Watergate affair and discipline provided by the Con­possesses evidence, other than Fr. Tooheyits coverup, and the reluctance stitution, and that the subsequent suspicion, which includes the with which Mr. Nixon cooperates trial before the Senate will vin­President in high crimes or Dear Editor: 
in the legislative and judicial in­dicate him. But I fear one thing misdemeanors. After reading Fr. Toohey'svestigations of these matters more than I fear the torture of an Fortunately, the at best article, Confessions of a Right causes some doubt about his impeachment: and that one thing premature cries for impeachment Winger, I felt that I had to respond.
determinatin to execute the law to is executive government by a man of the President are falling only on It appears that his alleged anti­the best of his ability. Since such who has placed himself above the Bella Abzug's friends' ears. 
Communism has become a con­

execution is his Constitutional law. Rather than acting without firm troversial issue on this campus.
function, these doubts bring the Sincerely, evidence, the House has chosen, Frankly, I couldn't care less what Bob Kerby
performance of his office into through its Judiciary Committee, Fr. Toohey thinks of Communism.
question and provide the basis for 
to investigate the matter and What irks me, however, is the way the initiation of impeachment Avoid change the general suspicion to that he is able to dupe both his
proceedings. either direct evidence of guilt or, supporters and his opponents.
Other alternatives are possible: hnpeach ment as the man stands now, innocent. Can't anyone see that this wholespecifically, a vigorous 
Further proceedings must await issue is just a red herring (no pun
prosecution of the laws by the Dear Editor, either new developments of the intended)? Actually the wholeExecutive. Mr. Cox's dismissal is Since more moderate tones are committee's findings. 
thing is a clever smokescreen to a catalyst for the impeachment so seldom heard in this daily press, divert the attention of the students Sincerely,movement precisely because it I would like to make one further from his lack of involvement in theJim Napierseems to suggest that Mr. Nxon attempt to clarify the importance real issues which don't include the will not pursue the alternatives of avoiding impeachment of the "Communist menace."

available to him. It is not in itself President based on <>uspicion. An Insidious Fr. Toohey likes to pose as a man cause for impeachment, but it The impeachment of a President 
who's constantly embroiled inleaves the Congress with few, if is not a simple analogue of the Danger important controversies. He likes 
any, other choices. The Congress common indictment. Because of to have the reputation of a man"may by Law vest the Ap­the drastic, last resort, auro of 
Editor: who provides outspoken moral pointment" of an independent impeachment, the consequences of 
Impeachment of a President is leadership on the major issues of prosecutor "in the Courts of Law," a yote for impeachment far exceed very serious. I feel, especially the day. In other words, he likes to 
but I suppose that the President the weight of a simple indictment. 
with the integrity of the press in cultivate the image of a fighter,can both obstruct that appointment For example, in impeachment question, that we owe ourselves championing the underdog against and interfere endlessly with the proceedings, the man involved is investigation beyond the powerful vested interests. Let's 
prosecutor's investigation. If so, virtually certain to find his status 
headlines. I refer to history, the take a look at the record. It ap­the obstruction of justice also falls shattered no matter the outcome of account of Senator Edmund G. ~ears that Fr. Toohey chooses his
the Senate's final vote.
within the definition of "high Ross in J .F .K.'s Profiles in controversies with great care. 
Crimes and Misdemeanors." If this impeached man happens Courage. Ross cast the deciding After all, what could be safer than 
Generally speaking, the im­to be the President of the United 
vote in Andrew Johnson's im-attacking Communism on this peachment movement is neither a States, the consequences of im­peachment trial at great personal campus? Fr. Toohey enjoyspolitical vendetta nor a witch hunt; peachment are the most drastic of sacrifice. The events and nothing more than being in the statements in this chapter center of a flurry of controversy correlate well to the present. I <provided that it involves no real would like to relate a few general risk to himself of course) and points, with quotes from the book. that's exactly what this series of 
At the time of Johnson's term, anti-Communist statements has there was no Vice-President. The produced. That device relieves the President Pro Tempore of the pressure on him to take on really Senate was in line for the formidable issues and opponents. Presidency. The Republican This way Fr. Toohey has the best Congress differed greatly with the of both worlds-he remains his 
LPresldent, a Democrat. leadership among committed 
Senator Joseph Smith Fowler youth without having to do "was horrified by the mad passion anything disturbing to the of the House in rushing through the Establishment. He can afford to im_Peachmen.t resolutio~ by get immersed in a phony con­evidence agamst Johnson based troversy over Communism at on falsehood,'... Notre Dame but would he ever 
"As the trial progressed, iL pull the sam~ stunt at Georgetown became increasingly apparent that or Berkeley where he could catch ­~he impati~nt Republic~ns did n?t real flak?All he got here was a few mtend to g1ve the Pres1dent a fa1r ' letters to the Observer and scat­tri~l on the .formal issues upon tered campus criticism bemoaning wh1ch the !mpeach~ent was imaginary threats to academic drawn, ~ut mtended ~~stead to freedom. When is Fr. Toohey depose h1m from the Wh1te House going to turn his critical attention on any gro~ds, real or imagin~, and "moral leadership" to for refusmg to accept the1r establishment involvement here at policies." Notre Dame? Don't hold your 
breath. 
Yours,


'darry trudeau 
Mark K. Reynolds 

~----------------~ 
~~~M 
the observer 

~(!PO YOV HAV& 
staff box
II 
ANY !PEA HOW MUCH7 IT (1)5T TO HAVE WR 
Night Editor: Albert D'Antonio
POot REPAINTE/J THIS 
asst. Night Editor: Ayn Moriarty
St/MffER ?// 
layout: Rick Blower, Jessica Crosson sports: Peg Lawlor, Greg Corgan, Vic Dorr day editor: Jack Kelly 
copy editor: Terry Kelly picture screener: Jerome Phillips typists: Tom Modglin, Barb Norcross, John Flan­nigan HAL operator: Mike Goetz nc: Phil Orscheln resident sorcerer: Carolina 
""" 

N.D. 23 u.s.c. 14 
M.D. $10 Duke SO.OO 




a garden of earthly delights -beaux arts ball 
Down from the mountains of Thrace came the followers of the great god Dionysus. The wine·swillers, drunk and laughing, danced in the glittering light. Garbed in goat skin, mimicking the appearance of their half man-half goat god, they spun to a frenzied rhythm. Across the nation they surged gathering followers to their "!Jedonistic pleasures. The cult of Dionysus will find its 
' final resting place in "A Garden of Earthly Delights," the Beaux Arts Ball to be presented by the students of architecture, Saturday from 10:00 p.m. to 3:00 a.m. im­mediately following the Paul Simon concert. 
In the dark mystical dimensions of man there has been a continuous attempt to escape from one physical dimension to another by the assumption of the physical attributes of a foreign being or object. The Beaux Arts Ball provides a twice yearly opportunity for this type of escape into the unreal with the themes of these costumed events traditionally leaning in this direc­tion. In recent years themes have been: "TheAge of Decadence," R"Reality in Ruin", "Peaches in Regalia", "The Grand Hotel", and "The Supermarket Stomp". A highlight of last year's Ball was the 1:00am 

•

here comes rhymin' s1mon 
The Paul Simon you'll see Saturday night is not the same Paul Simon who wrote the brooding "Sounds of Silence," "I am a Rock," and other biggies of the '60's, an more than he is the same Paul Simon who wrote "Hey, Schoolgirl." Musically he has grown up, cut the apron strings of a 14-year partnership, and junked the flowery em­bellishment the two were heading toward in Bookends. Those unfamiliar with the solo albums, who identify him with the easy­sounding heavies may get jolted by the 'new' Simon. They don't sing his new stuff at high school guitar masses. Even the golden oldies will have a new glitter as his two backup groups (one Latin and one gospel> join in on "The Boxer," "Sounds of Silence," and "Bridge Over Troubled Water." 

Columbia Records will be recording Saturday's performance by Paul Simon for possible use on a future record, it was announced today by Richard Donovan, Student Union Concert Coordinator. A mobile recording unit will be transported to the ACC for the event. A good number of $3.00 seats are still available for Simon's appearance, which Donovan predicted should be the best show of the season. They will be on sale at the ACC Box Offic through showtime on Saturday. 
This college tour is intended to establish his independent identiy and has been getting fantastic reviews; however, he may have a way to go as his albums still get filed under Simon and Garfunkel. But there is no doubt that Paul Simon can stand alone. When they toured seven years ago, it was Paul Simon who was the bridge between stage and audience--his humor, his monolgoe _ and ultimately his songs made the concert. In those days, they showed up with two stools, two acoustic guitars, and maybe a balloon. Garfunkel's arrangements were simple, nice, but Simon's poetry made the impact. He has always been first and foremost Paul Simon the writer. 
experimenting 
The fact that Simon's lyrics always did-­and still do--appear on the album jackets indicates the importance he attaches to them, but lately he seems more occupied with experimentation in different musical forms (reggae, gospel, etc.) than in con­scious poetry. The most recent lyrics (about half of the Bridge album and the two solo albums) have been a literary disap­pointment-trite, simple, innocuous-call them what you will. The wry humor that has always been Simon's is there, but the introspection of the '60's is gone. 
reflecting the times 
In a_ way, Paul Simon's songs have been like paperback-book cover art; they are an almost kitsch reflection of the life and times in which they were written. The early songs from the Wednesday Morning, 3 A.M. 
In clarification of yesterday's editorial concerning the Paul Simon concert, Concert Coordinator Richard Donovan released the following statement: 
· Patrons arriving after the performance has begun will be admitted to the concert, but only at an appropriate break in the show to be decided by Student Union and ACC of­ficials, and the artist's representative. In the interim, latecomers will be required to wait in the foyer. 
distributution of hamburgers to the munchie craving participants of the bacchanal. 
beaux arts tradition 

The name Beaux Arts Ball comes from IL'Ecole de Beaux Arts in Paris, France, which began the tradition of a yearly costume ball. According to Francesco Montana, Director of the Architecture Department's Rome Studies Program, who studied at L' Ecole de Beaux Arts. the Ball in the United States is only a minute replica of what it used to be in Paris. L"Ecole de Beaux Arts was started in the Napoleonic Era when a school was needed to maintain the various arts. The ball was actua}lv called the "Ball of the Four ArtS:', representing Architecture, Sculpture, Music and Painting. During his student days, Professor Montana attended one of these balls. The Theme was, "Francois Premier," and Mr. Montana said, "The students went all out in their costumes. They were either very elaborate or as brief as possible without creating scandal." 
the perils of plaster 

The Junior Architecture students currently in Rome held their own Beaux Arts Ball last Friday. The location was the Hotel Paradiso, and theme was naturally, "Inferno dal Paradiso." Unfortunately, there was a restaurant located under the room where the affair was held and the owner was forced to complain about the plaster falling from ceiling, caused by the frenzy upstairs. 
I I I I 
j 

Thursday, November 1•. 1973 t~e observer 
matt kubic 


j 
I

The Architecture Building at Notre Dame 
j

offers a unique setting for this type of gala event with its balconies and galleries surrounding the open dance floor. Gene Aleci who is in charge of decorations for "A 
jGarden of Earthly Delights", says that, "earthy, leafy, growey, viney things, and fruits will abound. " Music for the ball will be provided by the Mark Bloom Band. Tickets are $2.50 per person, and $4.50 per couple, and they will be on sale at the Ar­chitecture Library or at the door. The event is open to the entire Notre Dame com­munity. 
album, (1964) reflect the heyday of folk music--Peter, Paul and Mary and oral tradition peppered with social commentary. Their first hit albums--Sounds of Silence and Parsley, Sage, Rosemary and Thyme (both recorded in 1966) are the peak of their­-and everyone else's--Dylan stage; even the vocal style is outright plagiarism in some cuts. Two years and movie soundtrack (to The Graduate) later, we get a recapitulation of their alienation themes, this time with violins, in Bookeneds. At this point they are already becoming alienated as partners. Finally comes Bridge, their last album together, which Paul Simon rather cryp­

maria gallagher 

tically referred to in a Rolling Stone in­terview as "just about my first solo album," 
(citing Garfunkel's gadding about as a fledgling film star, giving little time to the album). In Bridge is the germ of where Paul Simon, the individual, started. He's discovered a whole world of music exists apart from simple acoustic guitars and full orchestra backup--even if it be pounding a piano bench and clapping ("Cecilia"). Hopefully she can also discover some new says to write meaningful sentiments too. 
Saturday night should be an interesting study of an old artist's ability to produce new magic. 

. ·, . . . ' .. 
. . . . . ...... . . .... . . . .. . . . . "..·....·.......(· • .. . . . .. .. .... . 
. 

. . . . . . 
-.....----t:.·-.--,.------...~----~~-.--...--..--.................. --...-~-----~---.--...-... -.. ..--=-~---. ....... ··------. -~~---__ ,___,........__--~-...-·-............__..-.... __.:._... -..r--,-·--.-.r--~.-...---~_.._-.~-..r---~--· ... ~--..,:-,_. ~·· 
<· ···~
-

~ 
J 
-
CD 
0 
cr 


"'CD
., 
< 
CD
., 
; 
c:
... 
~
.. 
~ 
z 
0 
< 
ID 
3 
i
... 
:" 
:0
... 
w 
SANSUI's Ever-Popular 1OOOX Receiver 
Was $289.95 A complete receiver in every sense of the word! Has all the design and sophis­tication of Sansui's most expensive receivers, but not the cost. And with Playback's half-price offer, consider it
14497a steal! Bandwidth power is a wide 20 to 30,000 Hz, never lets distortion exceed a low 0.8% at 28 watts RMS per channel. 
~:=..~. ~:-~-·' _. .....,._ -..... 
YOU PAY HALF PRICE ON EITHER GREAT RECEIVER WHEN PURCHASED WITH ANY OF THE FOLLOWING TURNTABLES AND 10 INCH SPEAKERS: 
EPI, MARANTZ, INFINITY, AR, PLAYBACK, SYLVANIA, PIONEER, DUNACO, VEGA, GARRARD, DUAL, THORENS, SONY, BSR and AR 



SANSUI's Magnificent 2000X ... a Trend-Setter! 
One of the most popular Receivers ever Was $339.95 .· made! Provides at least 78 watts (RMS) 
of power-a wide 20 to 40,000 Hz power 
1. 997
bandwidth and distortion at a mere 0.8%! Includes FET's and IC's in the amplifier section for power when and where you need it plus the ability to handle two sets of speaker systems. Y2-price with strings. 

THORENS and ADC-Superb! 
Take Thorens' TD-160 Turntable, one of today's finest values in a manual record player-combine it with ADC's raved-about "XLM" Car­tridge for 1¢ more-and you've got yourself a superior deal! 


Phone: 256-1514 

In College Square across from Town &Country Shopping Center 
1..r1 ~ -..-.,..::;n 
"Micro-Tower" I 
Featuring a unique method of loading for some of the deepest, soul-satisfying bass response you've ever heard ... regardless of speaker price ... and does it with 10 RMS watts! 
1199~•. 


SHURE's New V15-lll 
Another superior tracking Cartridge-from the Super­Track people! Playback­priced, of course. 
Reg. $72.95 
5800 
Reg. $250.00 






200°1 

Store Hours: 
lOam -9pm Weekdays 
lOam -7p.m Saturdays 
12pm -Spm Sundays 


817 West McKinley Hwy. · Mishawaka 
-II-1'41~WY-~/ y ;;::, 

"Interface: A" 

Engineered and designed to provide the most natural, un­colored reproduction possible. Comes with equalizer that per­mits virtually perfect response. A must-hear! 




400°0 
pair 
riVI"'t~~n;;::, ..:J"'•o 1uu-

An Incredibly Good Amp! 
Versatility and performance-plus! 40 RMS watts per channel, 0.3% distortion, super stable, two-mike and tape deck outputs-much more! 
29995 


TANDBERG's New 3341 
One of the finest home Tape Decks you can find-at any price! Super wide response, even at slower speeds. 
42990 

SONY TC-280 Deck 
Value-packed stereo Tape Deck. Long-life Ferrite heads, bias switch for use with any tape, more. 
19995 
·-·~·-· ;.;~ 9~~-,.f~·"&-· ~~-z,~." 
.QVIL. (~$11 ··-.·········· }.····.. .. 'ij~ ;· .. / . 
-· ~ -·.. 
. .
...~...­
~;, • jjfir~ 11 
i-Xf:;:.._.,, n ·-~. ···-·~··· ......... . 
. *' " '• .....-~·'>:< ' •·«· 

PHASE LINEAR "400" Amp 
A truly "super" basic amplifier. De­livers at least 200 watts RMS per chan­nel with virtually no distortion. A giant of an amp-worth every penny! 

499°0 
; 
c..,
... 
a. 
:cIll z 
0 
< 
ftl 
3 
..,:5 ' ­
--o 
.... 
w 
-::r 
CD 
cr 
Cit 
CD
.., 
<
CD
.., 
..... 

Thursday, November 1, 1973
the observer

8 
Golda Meir consults with Nixon 

;E:y United Press International 

Israeli Premier Golda Meir arrived in Washington Wednes­day to ask President Nixon not to give in to Arab and Soviet demands for an Israeli troop 
pullback before any Middle East prisoner of war exchange. 
Mr~. Meir said the United State~ was a "close friend of Israel but not the enemy of Arab states." 
As Mrs. Meir flew to the United States, President Anwar Sadat of Egypt said his army
\ 
was ready to wipe out Israeli forces on the west bank of the Suez Canal if they did not withdraw to positions held before the Oct. 22 cease-fire. 
Egypt has demanded an Israeli pullback before any exchange of war prisoners. Such a withdrawal would free the 20,000 Egyptian troops that Israeli forces have trapped on the canal's east bank. 
"I have come to Washington, co_me to a friendly country, a fnendly government and a friendly president," Mrs. Meir said on arrival. 
She said the United States has been a close friend of Israel and "has demonstrated it more than once. At the same time, no one can say the United States is the enemy of Arab states. 
"It is one big power that really is interested in peace in the area." 
"There are naturally from time to time problems for which we seek answers and clarifications," she said. 
Israeli government sources said Mrs. Meir would ask Nixon to support her country's de­mand for an immediate and unconditional prisoner ex­change-one not contingent on Israel's pulling back to Oct. 22 truce lines. 
Mrs. Meir was expected to give top priority to the deadlocked prisoner of war issue in her discussions with 

Man charged 'With Inurder after mercykilling paralyzed brother 
FREEHOLD, N.J. <UPI>­Lester Zygmaniak stood beside the hospital bed of his 
\ paralyzed brother. "I am here to end your pain," he said. "Is that all right with you?" His brother nodded, "and the next thing I knew," Lester testified Wednesday, "I had shot him." George Zygmaniak, 26, was paralyzed from the neck down in a June 17 motorcycle accident at the family home in Perrineville, N.J. On June 20, 
he was snot to death in his hospital bed. · His 23-year-old brother was charged with murder. 
George's widow, Jeannette, testified that on the fatal night George told her: 
"They are torturing me. Swear to God for me that you won't let me live. Promise you won't interfere, swear to God you won't interfere." 
Then, she said, the three joined hands and prayed together. 
Lester testified he went to his room and sawed down a 

Third time for financier 
shotgun. He said he took some shotgun shells, dropped melted candle wax over them to keep the shot from scattering, then went to the hospital. 
"I walked over to the room, looked in and saw my brother. I asked him if he was in pain, a lot of pain. He nodded, 'yes.' 
"I am here to end your pain," he said he told George. After he fired, he said, he put his hand on his brother's chest and said "God bless you, George, I'm sorry it had to happen like this." 

Grand jury indicts Vesco again. 
NEW YORK <UPI> -Fugi­tive financier Robert I. Vesco has been indicted by a federal grand jury in Manhattan for the third time in the continuing effort to have him extradited from Costa Rica or the Bahamas. 
The sealed indictment which was filed last July 20 and opened Wednesday charged that Vesco defrauded $50,000 from the International Controls Corp. of Fairfield, N.J., which he once controlled. 
The previous indictments alleged attempted fraud. This charge was ruled out by a Costa Rica court as an extradictable offense and Baha­ma courts never acted on it. 
The latest indictment charges actual fraud. Vesco was indict­ed last May with former Attorney General John Mitchell and former Commerce Secre­tary Maurice Stans on charges of conspiracy, obstruction of justice and perjury -none of which are considered extradict­able offenses. 

The three defendants and Harry Sears, a prominent New Jersey Republican, were ac­cused of trying to influence a massive fraud investigation of Vesco in return for his secret $200,000 cash contribution to President Nixon's re-election campaign last year. 
Vesco has been a fugitive since last February, dividing his time between his homes in Costa Rica and the Bahamas. At least two fugitive warrants are outstanding against hi9) 
Stans and Mitchell are 
scheduled to go on trial Jan. 7. 
Sears will be tried later. 
The latest indictment alleged that Vesco used $50,000 in ICC funds as part payment for stock in Investors Overseas Services Lts., a Swiss financial complex. Vesco allegedly had asked Mitchell -and Stans to influence a Securities and Exchange Commission investigation of his alleged looting of $224 million from lOS. 
The new indictment centers on the transfer of the $50,000 in ICC funds to C. Henry Buhl, 3d, a former director of lOS­managed funds.· 
It alleged that Vesco sent a telegram from the Bank . of America in San Francisco to the Compagnie de Banque et d'Investimente in Geneva, Swit­zerland, with instructions to pay the money to Buhl. 
Nixon and Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger during her four-day visit. She was to meet with Nixon Thursday. 
Kissinger, who will visit four Arab capitals along with Iran and Pakistan next week, said "we believe we are making progress" in efforts to negotiate peace in the Middle East. 

After Mrs. Meir's departure from Israel, a military spokes­man reaffirmed the nation's stand that the agreement with Egypt to exchange wounded prisoners of war did not call for Israeli troops to withdraw to the positions held Oct. 22 when the United Nations cease-fire officially took effect. 


Uhe WinJjammer 
HAIR STYLING FOR DISCRIMINATING MEN 

Now with 4 barber-stylists to serve you better! 
All Services by Appointment -No Waiting 
CALL NOW 
. 
1637 LincolnWay W. 232-6622 ( 




CILA CHRIST.MAS CARDS 
Designed by mem­bers of -the N D community and· sqld by CILA ­
( Counci I for the In­'ernational Lay , .postolate) 

SOLD ON CAMPUS this weeki 
,, -in the halls· (ND&SMC) ~ ~in Campus Ministry 0 -in the dining halls 
Tonight from 10 to 12 the cards will be sold in Cavanaugh, St. Ed's, Morrissey, and Regina Holy Cross and LeMans at SMC. ' 
This S~nda~ from 10 to 12 the ca~ds will be sold in Alumn1, Sonn, Holy Cross, and McCandless at SMC. 

Protestant extremists 

borderin Northern Ireland 
tnrougn principal crossl·ngsBELFAST, Northern Ireland unim e<.. 

<UPI> -The Protestant Ulster P · . 






::ND-23
Defense Association <UDA) The extremist UDA wanted marshalled uniformed patrols ~e border clo~ed to combat the at minor road crossings be-m~~eased Yl.olence . of the tween Northern Ireland and the m~htant prov~slOnal wmg of the Irish Republic at midnight in Insh Republican Army ORA). an attempt to close the border It had threa!ened a blockade to but police said traffic moved for~e security forces to take 
USC-14
acbon. 


Welcome ND/SMC Men & Women 
Memberships Available 
to South Send's New 

Downtown Private Club 
THE RED DOOR CLUB 
1_1 0'12 N. Main 
,.. 
I 

ALL THAT'S LEFT IS MIAMI. BE THERE!! 
DEC. 1 
Sign up for the Senior Trip Questions? Call while you still can. . 233-9555 
r't. e 1. c............,..•.,•._f'._'\.e~ t: * t.l·ll t I I I 1·1 I •'•~'..,'•'•'•'•t•!•~l.l 1.1."4/·t fIt ,,1 Iff !t, 

~····· .J ·,•. ,~,...~-:!:,·,~#: ,·('l", .. ·4,..·.:·.· '\~.....,,, .. ~£', ...~'...•.~~ ~:..,~-.:~: ._,A 
Thu·rsaay,· November-1,-19"73------the· obs-erv-er·----9 
Rebozo clarifies contribution 
MIAMI (UPI) -Presidential confidante Charles G. <Bebe) Rebozo said Wednesday that if the Internal Revenue Service had not begun investigating a $100,000 campaign contribution from Howard Hughes it would have been used for congression­al campaigns in 1974. 
Rebozo, in a copyrighted, exclusive interview with the Miami Herald for its Thursday editions, said he never told President Nixon· about the Hughes money, and returned it more than ' year after the IRS investigation began. 
Rebozo sa1d if the IRS had not 'become interested in the Hughes contribution, "the money would have been used in the '74 congressional cam­paign." 
The Herald said that in an interview with live of its editors and reporters, Rebozo also: 

Jaworski possible 
By HELEN THOMAS 

WASHINGTON (UPI) Prominent Houston lawyer Leon Jaworski, a former President of the American Bar Association, was expected to be named Thursday as special Watergate prosecutor, it. was learned Wednesday night. 
Reached by telephone at his Houston liome, Jaworski said that he expected an announce-
Experts to discuss aspects ~~~~:~a~~ ;~1~~~:/ c~~~up~it:n~r of abortio~ controversy m~~~or~k~ul:aidhin~~ :~po~i~ 
A panel discussion on "The Abortion Controversy" will be held Thursday, November 1, at 7:30 
p.m. in Carroll Halt 
Part of the_ continuing series "A Woman's Place Is....," Thursday's discussion will center on· several aspects of the abortion issue. Offering an outlook fr.om a scientific viewpoint will be Dr. Clarence Dineen, chairperson of the biology departmel)t at Saint Mary's. {le will examine the development of human life both before and after birth. Dr. William Wernz, a member of the religious studies department at Saint Mary's, will discuss the moral question of abortion in the light of 
_A  307 S MI(H ST  
-~_Yi/1~fJM ~  ..288-78oo· • _ So.a...d,lnd.  

"Walking Tall' 


Audiences are standingup and applauding... 
•'
. 
PARTS EXTRA 
. 
IF NEEDED 
......................... 
•• W.t!it.!ii!¥3.!UIQ•14i·•
WALKING 
WITH COUPON 
BRAKE RELIIIIIIG 
R EXCEPT DISC BRAKES AND

TALL 

A BCP Production A serviCe Of Cox Broadcasllng COfP 
~;~~;::·
In Color fj{1 G'"o"'
~ CINERAMA 
C» e RElEASING 
INCLUDES FULL
"""•~OE DON BAKER ELIZABETH H~RTMAN 
INSPEcTION, 
FLUID AND CLEAN.
""'jfflmPW!i"..____ _
-------ALSO------­
~. .,c c tli!tk'. 
on the same program, "Save the Children" ­
: WITH COUPO~~ 1:J 
once at 9: 15. 
: SIOCI 
JP 

SPECIAL STUDENT DISCOUNT! 
: SALE ~ v
.
OFFER! Thurs. Night Only! 
$444
Nov. 1 -for the advance showing of "Walking Tall" $1.50 for all N.D. & St. Mary's students. The public 
PI.IS lll,TILUTIOI
demanded a return 'of this powerful true story. · 
-·~"!················· ..·•-.­
-said it is 'totally false" that Watergate special prosecu­tor Archibald Qox was dis­missed for beginning an investigation of the $100,000 Hughes contribution. 
-Denied that his bank, the Key Biscayne bank on the residential island where Nixon was a vacation home next to Rebozo's house, was ever used to "launder" Nixon campaign funds. He said the President and Mrs. Nixon have a joint account in the bank and that each of the Nixon daughters has an account. 
-Said that the deal he and another Nixon friend, mil­lionaire Robert Abplanalp, put together to help Nixon buy his San Clemente estate was "actually a very normal transaction that got blown completely out of proportion." 
Rebozo, 61, also said his 

ment on a new prosecutor attorney general, succeeding would be made tomorrow but Elliot Richardson who resigned he would not flatly confirm he when President Nixon fired would be the man. former special Watergate 
Jaworski said that he had prosecutor Archibald Cox. discussed the possibility of "If an announcement is made taking on the prosecutor job you will see that there are with both acting attorney certain conditions," Jaworski­general Robert Bork and Sen. told UPI. He made it clear that William 0. Saxbe, R-Qhio, who he expected to have independ­is expected to be nominated ence and a free hand should -be 
replace Cox in investigating the 
freedom to pursue the investi­law and religion. gation independently even to 
Gordon Cook, M.D., South Bend ·the point of going through the physician and. a member of the judicial process to secure more P-lanned Parenthood Association, tapes and documents from the 
will examine both historical and President if necessary. current attitudes towards abortion Cox was fired after he as they relate Y> religion, law and refused to accept a Nixon inedicine. He will also cover the directive to halt court efforts to attitudes prevalent in foreign 
countries and the United States, 

:··ijii'§IUEMBtem-··:
and will pose a question for the 

: WITH COUPON , :
future. State senator Joan Gub­

lQFULL_
EI&IIE TUIE-UP 1·
bins (R-Indianapolis) will also be 

. .
~ 
present Thursday evenipg to discuss her activities concerning 

l ~~~$20 9 ~1 
. .
the legal aspect of abortion. 

. . 
• ANY 6 CYL. U.S. AUTO •
The public is invited to attend the 

:ADD $4 FOR 6 CYL. CARS.! 'AIR COND. CARS $2 MORE.'
panel discussiQn. Admission is 

: INCLUDES. PLUGS, POINTS.: 
: CONDENSER, CHECK : .
free. 

t CHOKE, TIME ENGINE. : BALANCE CARBURETOR 1
···--···-··----····-···-'(
.. .,
VALUABLE COUPON
TONIGHT! 
.

WITH COUPON 
.
OPEN 7:00 

FROIT EIDjt
ILI&IIEIT ­
Once only 7: 15! 
MOST 
1 
AMEA.ICA.N ·:'ji.-:­
CARS "<.:­
friendship with the President had nothing to do with the fact that a federal charter was refused for a group seeking to start a rival bank on Key Biscayne, but that a charter was granted for a savings and loan association with Rebozo associates among the directors. 
"The President didn't even know until his news summaries referred to it that there was another bank application up there," Rebozo said. 
DisClosure of the granting of the charter to the savings and loan group has instigated a congressional investigation of the matter. 
Rebozo said he received the money from Hughes in 1970, half in San Clemente and the other half at his Key Biscayne home. He said both times the money was brought by Richard Danner, a Hughes aide. He said 
Snow Recaps 
$2295 560-15 
(plus F.E.T.J 
Premium 4 Ply Nylon 
Snow Tires 
F78-14 Blackwalls start as low as 
$1695 
(plus F.E.T.) 



20% OFF 
on all tail pipes, exhaust pipes, and mufflers. 
Discount Tire Service 50595 U.S. 31 North 
272-1023 
OPEN DAILY TIL 6 ·.·.•.•. SAT~URDAY TIL 4 
there was no campaign finance He said the IRS began an chairman at the time. · investigat~on of the campaign
Rebozo said he told the contributioln in May of 1972 but President's personal secretary, that he did not return the Rose Mary Woods, about the money until June of 1973. contribution "shortly after" Rebozo also disclosed that he 
receiving the money. But he had once counted the moneysaid he didn't tell the President and found an extra $100 bill about it until after the 1972 making the exact amount of th~ 
election, "on one of his visits" contribution $100,100. to Key Biscayne. "I knew I had to tell him and I knew that Rose hadn't told 
He said when he received the him," Rebozo said. "I couldn't money, "there was no question sit there forever with this in my mind what it was ever money without at least letting for. I only had one candidate. 
him know about it." There was one race that I was He said he decided to leave 
interested in, and that was the money in the safe deposit getting him re-elected." box -"1 thought I'd just sit But Rebozo said that "I'm tight and see if all this blew not a fund-raiser and I don't over" -after an internal battle evenlike to handle money." He 
developed within the Hughes said, the Herald reported, that empire. he cannot remember how much he . put the money in· a safe other campaign money he 
'
deposit box in his bank because handled in 1968 and 1972. ~ 




prosecutor 
,, 
secure White House tapes and documents. 
Jaworski said he was in Washington Wednesday but did not meet with Nixon, 
He indicated that he was importuned to accept the post on the basis of "fulfilling patriotic duty." 
Jaworski's Who's Who biogra­phy lists his age as 68 and his birthplace as Waco, Tex. He was educated at Baylor Univer­sity and Geoorge Washington University, and practices law in Houston. He is married to former Jeannette Adam and has three children. 
He is a Democrat and was appointed by President Lyndon 
B. Johnson to many presiden­tial commissions during John­son's tenure. 
John Hushen, Justice Depart­ment spokesman, declined confirm or deny that Jaworski 
would be appointed as special prosecutor. He said he was authorized to say in Bork's . behalf only that "the search is 
narrowing." 
Earlier congressmen from 
both parties expressed doubt 
legislative efforts to create an 
office of special Watergate 
prosecutor could survive a 
constitutional test. 

,·. 
JO 


Kleindienst denies contradiction 

• 
{ 
j 
~  
j  
r.  r  
!  
1\  
r  
(  
(  
t.  
'~ {  
f.­ 
~  
·~  

r 
( 
.~ 
Washington UPI -Former At· torney General Richard G. Kleindienst said Wednesday he threatened to resign in 1971, forcing President Nixon to permit him to appeal an antitrust case involving the International Telephone and Telegraph Corp ITT. 
But Kleindienst denied he had committed perjury when he told the Senate Judiciary Committee duringhis confirmatio ~g in the spring of 1972 that no one in the White House had pressured him over the ITT matter. 
Kleindienst said committee members had questioned him not about Nixon but about alleged attempts by Peter Flanigan of the White House staff to pressure him to hold off on appeal. 
Kleindienst issued a statement on the ITT case after Archibald Cox, the ousted Watergate special prosecutor, acknowledged before the Senate Judiciary Committee Tuesday that Kleindienst had told him about receiving a telephone 
call frum Nixon in 1971 about the ITT case. Information about the Nixon call 
to Kleindienst was leaked to the press on Monday, prompting a White House attack on Cox and his staff for an "inexcusable" breach 
of confidence. Cox then acknowledged he had privately told Sens. Edward M. Kennedy, D­Mass., and Philip A. Hart, D­Mich., and some of their staff members about his conversation with Kleindienst. 
SMC to vote on lettuce boycott 


by Melissa Byrne Staff Reporter 
SMC students will vote next week on a proposed change in SMC dining hall lettuce purchasing policy. The change involves buying lettuce picked by United Farm Workers rather than the Teamster Union lettuce currently used. 
"I hope the SMC students will respond positively and vote to change the purchasing policy because they will be contributing tc the cause of justice for United Farm Workers," said Tom Stella, assistant director of ND Campus Ministry and part-time member of SMC Campus Ministry. 
The United Farm Workers, headed by Cesar Chavez, was formed several years ago to help the poverty-stricken Mexican· American farm worker. 
Last spring, as UFW contracts were about to expire, the Team­sters negotiated new contracts with the growers. This is known as a "sweetheart" contract made between the union and the grower without the laborer's consent. 
By boycotting grapes and let­tuce, UFW supporters have at­tempted to pressure the growers and the Teamsters into recognizing the rights of the farm workers. 
Last spring it became known that lettuce used in the Notre Dame dining halls was Teamster lettuce. The Teamster lettuce was purchased because it was more plentiful and cheaper than other lettuce. 
The ND Campus Ministry viewed the purchase of Teamster 
"a  contradiction  of  Christian  
values of justice."  The Campus  
Ministry  then  initiated  a  

referendum to determine if ND students preferred their dining hall lettuce policy be changed. 
As a result of the vote, UFW lettuce is now served in the Notre Dame dining halls. If no UFW lettuce is available. no lettuce is 
Stella: "I hopw SMC students will respond positively ..• " 

served in ND dining halls. Jiii.:O~~e~niiiJIIl~a!.lm~.j-2~a~.~m=·~M~;;:::~i;ii~ij'
However, this shortage of UFW 1 ~ lettuce occurs approximately once 
every two weeks. 
Stella indicated Crawford Caswell, SMC's Food Service director, will change SMC policy of buying Teamster lettuce should students vote for UFW lettuce. "As long as SMC serves Teamster 
lettuce  it  makes  farm  worker  
justice  harder  to  bring  about,"  
said Stella.  


Connally calls for confir~ation 
NEW YORK (UPI) -Former ment. presidential advisor John B. "There is an element of Connally called Tuesday for the hatred in this controversy, the speedy confirmation of Gerald smell of a vendetta," he said, Ford as vice-president to "and if wiser and cooler heads "restore some stability to this of both political parties don't government." take control, we are in for a 
Speaking at the 70th anniver-much greater trauma than we sary dinner of the Naval have yet experienced." League, Connally said some 
congressmen tried to "make a The Texas Republican said he hostage of Ford while new did not think President Nixon attHks against the President would be im_peached and add~ were being deliberated." that ~he basic problem was . a 
Connally, who was once conflict ~etw~en the executive considered a possibility for and legislative branchs of government.'' 
He said the conflict was not uncommon and could be found in any level of government­state, federal or local. "And, he said, "in 99.9 times out of a hundred, it can be worked out." 
In other remarks, Connally said the United States in order to remain number one in economic and military power it had to keep its miliitary position strong. "This means our weapons system must be upgraded consistently," he said. 
vice-president, said Congress
should investigate the back· ground of Ford, the House Minority leader, as soon as possible and if they find "pertinent reasons" to reject him, then "take that action." 
"But," Connally said, "if this is not the case, and I'm confident that it is not, then it is incumbent upon every responsible leader in Congress to speed the confirmation proceedings and begin restoring some stability to this govern-
RESEARCH 
Thousands of Topics $2.75 per page Send for your up-to-date, 160-page, 
mail order catalog. Enclose $1.00 to cover postage (delivery time is 1 to 2 daysl. 
RESEARCH ASSISTANCE, INC. 11941 WILSHIRE BLVD., SUITE #2 LOS ANGELES, CALIF. 90025 (213) 477·8474 or 477-5493 
Our research material Is sold for research assistance only. 
,-------------------------­

"Smile, God Laves You" 
DERMSHEM © MOTORS "Tell your friend to buy his car here 
and if he does, we 'II give you $3511 
*****************K********. 
: 69 Mustang fastback l* Special: green, A-C * : built in tape $1295 ~ 
'*************************** 
FINANCING AVAILABLE 
"If we don't have It, we'll get It" 
© OPEN 
Mon., Tues., Thurs., 9-8; Wed., Fri., Sat., 9-6 CALL 233-5145 . 132 Sellll ..., '"· 31 Nlltre 0. '"· 


Kleindienst, in a statement issued through his attorney, Herbert J. Miller, said former White House domestic adviser John D. Ehrlichman had called him on April 19, 1971, "and stated that the President directed me not to file the appeal in the Grinnell case." At the time, the Justice Department was challenging ITT's proposed acquisition of the Grinnel Crop., a plumbing equipment 
company. "That was the last day in which 
that appeal could be taken." Kleindienst said. "I informed him that we had determined to take ~at appeal, and that he should so mform the President. Minutes Ia_ter, the Pre~ident called me and, Without any discussion ordered me to drop the appeal. 
"Immediately thereafter I sent word to the President tha't if he persisted in that direction wouldbe compelled to submit myresignation." 
W en your parents ore in town, hove hem stay in South Bend's NEWEST Hotel 


Jlogal!fnn· 
316 S. Sl Joseph Reservations: (219) 282·2511 
WEEKEND SPECIALS AVAILABLE 
For dining, visit our 
JOLLY KING RESTAURANT 
nd afterwards hit the "in spot" in town 
THE PURPLE JESTER DISCOTHEQUE 
L0 UNG E• 

Dancing under psychedelic lights 



Acareer in law­
WilhOUIIBW SChOOl. 
What can you do with only a bachelor's degree? 
Now there is a way to bridge the gap between an undergraduate education and a challenging, respon­sible career. The Lawyer's Assistant is able to do work traditionally done by lawyers. 
Three months of intensive training can give you the skills-the courses are taught by lawyers. You choose one of the six courses offered-choose the city in which you want to work. 
Since 1970, The Institute for Paralegal Training has placed more than 500 graduates in law firms, banks, and corporations in over 40 cities. 
If you are a student of high academic standing and are interested in a career as a Lawyer's Assistant, we'd like to meet you. 
Contact your placement office for an interview with our representative. 
We will visit your campus on 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 13 
The Institute for Paralegal Training 
235 South 17th Street, Philadelphia. Pennsylvania 19103 (215) 732-6600 
Indiana T. Reg. #AC0035 

{ 
•. 

·ThursdaJ, November 1, 1973 
the observer J 1 

Saxbe ·relatively sure· about selection as Attomey General 
by EUGENE V. RISHER 
WASHINGTON <UPI)--Sen. William B. Saxbe of Ohio, one of the administration's sharpest critics among Republicans, met with President Nixon for an hour Wednesday and emerged to say he was "relatively sure" he would be named attorney general. 
Saxbe, 57, who is retiring from the Senate at the end of his first term next January, told reporters in the White House driveway he had received assurances during the meeting that Nixon's actions relating to the Watergate scandal "were proper." 
He indicated that only routine background checks remained before official announcement of his nomination to succeed Elliot L. Richardson, who resigned along with Deputy Attorney General William D. Ruckelshaus on Oct. 20 when both refused to l)bey Nixon's order to fire special Watergate prosecutor Archibald Cox. 
"I'm relatively sure," Saxbe said. when asked if he was getting 
Conteinptofcourtcharges 
. Ch. 
7 
at the Justice Department.
argued agalnst lCago "It's a challenge-a challenge I would like--a a 
Chicago UPI -Attorney William Kunstler argued Wednesday that many of the charges of contempt against the Chicago Seven and their -lawyers are based on "hearsay" entered in the court record by the judge who heard the 1969-70 conspiracy trial. 
In a count-by-count attack on the 52 contempt citations, Kunstler charged repeatedly that the day­by-<lay transcript of the tumultous trial did not support specific allegations cited by U.S. District Court Judge Julius J. Hoffman 
when he sentenced the nine  men  
for contempt.  
Prosecutor  Royal  Martin  told  

U.S. District Court Judge Edward Gignoux that Kunstler's attack on the 23,000 page transcript was a "smokescreen to mollify_ the conduct of the defendants." 
"I find the attempts of Mr. Kunstler to justify the conduct of these defendants, and their repeated villification of the judge, incredible, " Martin said. 
Hoffman originally sentenced the seven antiwar demonstrators, Kunstler and the other trial lawyer, Leonard Weinglass, to prison terms ranging from 2 months 18 days to 4 years 13 days for repeated courtroom outbursts and other conduct that he found contemptuous. 
A federal appeals court set aside the convictions, ruling that the nine men were entitled to separate trial by a judge who had not presided at the original preceedings. 
The government dropped more that 100 of the contempt charges, leaving only 52 which Assistant 
U.S. Attorney Gary Starkman said "show on their face clear and direct contempt." 
Kunstler argued Wednesday that many of the original citations were dismissed "will-nilly by the government" and those that remain shoud be thrown out by Gignoux. 
He argued that the failure of the defendants to rise "in the cu·stomary manner" cited by Hoffman -may have been "misbehavior" but that it was not "material obstruction" and therefore not contemptuous. 
Such citations were based on "Hearsay evidence" inserted into the court record by the judge, Kunster contended. There was nothing the court record of any order to rise and even if there were job. But he added: "I don't want to be presumptuous and say I've got it in the bag." 
Saxbe once said of the President's statements on Watergate: "He is like the man who plays piano in a house of ill­repute and says he doesn't know what's going on upstairs." And of Nixon's orderto bomb North Vietnam in 1972, he said the President "must have taken leave of his sense." 
Saxbe told reporters these and other tart remarks of his were mentioned during the meeting with Nixon, which the senator described as open and candid. 
"I'm an outspoken guy," he said. "I told him, 'you'll have to take me warts and all'." . 
Returning to his office later, Saxbe said: "Some of my so-called friends brought those things to his attention. The doubts I expressed about Nixon's actions were doubts expressed by a lot of people. " But he said he did not believe it would prevent his appointment. 
Saxbe said he had no candidate 
such orders "there was no proof they were loud enough to be heard," he said. 
Kunstler said defendant Jerry Rubin's remarks, "You are a Fascist, your honor," and "everything in this court is bull-," were not obstructive behavior. 

'The finest in 

Cantonese  Steaks  
Cuisine at  
Moderate Prices'  Chicken  
Sea food  

Quiet atmosphere 
CLOSED MONDAYS 
YOU CAN'T MISS THIS ONE! ! seniors unite for your last pregame blast 
Fri. Nov. 2 12:00 p.m. 

DEATH MARCH 
THE BARGAINS WILL BE THERE FOR THE CLASS OF 74. JUST BRING YOUR LEGS AND 
THIRST  TO  THE  CIRCLE  AT  HIGH  NOON  
FRIDAY!!  
+Unfortunately Sweeney's will not be a part of the march.  Louie's  

can't make it either, but we'll tiven up the Library, Nickie's & Cor­by's, & the Senior Bar. This is going to be the biggest ever, though. Be at the ircle at high noon!! !I 
in mind for Cox' successor as special prosecutor, an ap­pointment that Acting Attorney General Robert H.Bork is supposed to announce this week. 
As for the new prosecutor's independence, Saxbe said: "I'm satisfied any necessary in­formation will be made available from presidential tapes and documents." 
Saxbe said he questioned in Nixon's presence why the "woodenheaded situation" surrounding the Cox firing had arisen, and that Nixon replied that "things moved fast and it just happened that way." 
Saxbe said he asked Nixon about allegations of presidential wrongdoings in the Watergate scandal, and was fully satisfied with the President's answers. "I think I have a pretty good feeling for these things," he said, "and I believe him." 
"We went right to the basics of the Watergate matter," Saxbe said. "I'm convinced he was not a party to the monkey business." 
He said Nixon assured him of independence should he take the job, and that he looked forward to the challenge of restoring morale 
personal job, mangement job," he said. 
Saxbe served two terms as at­torney general of Ohio before he was elected to the Senate in 1968. He previously had served in the state House of Representatives from the age of 29, becoming majority leader and then speaker. 
A NIGHT WITH 
W. C. FIELDS 
and 
THE MARX BROTHERS 
(in "Duck Soup") 
at The Little Theatre SMC Friday Nov. 2 -$ 1. 00 admission Both shows at 7 & 10 pm Sponsaed by The Collegiate Choir 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 

Paperboy desperately needs 4 Navy tix. Will pay SS + Trib. Call Henry 8851. 
Need 2 GA Navy tix. Call Rick 8921. 
PART-TIME EMPLOYMENT 
Graduate student needed for part-time . Evening em­ployment. Experience in supervision helpful but not necessary. Apply Per­sonnel!. Brownson Hall ND. 
Need 2, 4 or 6 GA Navy tix. Call 1815 between noon-one. 
Need 2 Navy adjacent GA tix. 234-7668. 
Need 6 GA Navy tix. Call 232­6884. 
Need GA Navy tix. Please. Brenda 1322. 
Need 2 GA Navy tix. Pretty please. 3069. 
Need Navy tix. Call 3451. 
Need 2 GA + 1 student Navy tix. Call Pete 234-2098. 
Need 1 Navy ticket. Call Patricia 6923. 
Need 7 GA Navy tix. Call John 1774. 
Need 2 GA Navy tix. 8761. 
Need 2 Navy tix north end zone. Call Jeff 1137. 
Need 1 GA ticket Navy . Call Mary 4773. 
Need 1 GA Navy ticket. Kevin 234-5200 evenings. 
HELP WANTED 

Help wanted at FRANKY'S IN Niles. Good pay tor good work. Call FRANKY'S 683­7474. 
RIDES WANTED 

Need ride to Pitt game Nov. 8 or 9. Will share $$ and driving. Bob 3451. 
Need ride to Cincy Fri. monrn. Nov. 2. Call 232-0372 Bill. 
FOR SALE 

MEERSCHAUM PIPES! Exceptional values, per­sonalized service. Catalog. PMP Co. Box 444 Gaither­sburg Md. 20760. 
Brand-new knee length topcoat 
+ crushed velvet jacket. Both size 40. Cheap. Call 234­4961. 
Panasonic tape cassette recorder. never out of box. received as gift. Call Michelle 5123. 
Fine quality hand-made leather goods. Great gifts and good deals too. Drop by 165 Morrissey or call 3493. 
Fischer ski~. 232-0540. Reasonable. 
Tandenburg 3300X stereo tape deck. Built-in echo + sound­onsound. Call 7830. 
Panasonic cassette tape deck. Model RS-262US. 1 Yr. old. Asking $50. Call AI. 1072. 
Sansui sereo cassette deck. Dol by Unit. Excellent condition. Mike 8781. 
2 Student tix. for Navy. Ken 288-2457 before 10 pm. 
2 GA Navy tix. Best offer Call Ernie at 1049. 
FOR RENT 
Rooms $40 Mo. Near. 233-1329. 
All private 3 rooms up for married graduate student. All Utilities. Near Memorial hospital . No rent in return for aiding parents to help tift lightweight son and daughters to and from wheelchairs. 232-9128. 
NOTICES 
Morrissey Loan Fynd can loan up to $150 at 1 per cent in­terest. 1 day waiting period. Basement of LaFortune. 11:15-12:15 Mon.-Fri. 
Will do typing: term papers, manuscripts etc. Call 233· 6090. 
Logan volunteers: Regular Saturday rec, then take group to football game. Come at 9 am. 
SKI THE FRENCH ALPS, JAN.l-JAN. 11.DEPOSIT DEADLINE, SUNDAY NOV.4. FOR IN­FORMATION CALL 6716. 
SKI team meeting thurs. Nov. 1 7pm. Rm 1-C LaFortune. Be there! 
TYPING DONE: theses, papers, etc. Fast. Call Gloria 234-9765. 
pandora's has just received some great new art prints. also this week only all used books SOper cent off 1ist value. sunday editions of new ydrk times, chicago sun times, and tribune. washington post, from 9:30 to 7 every day, 9 on sunday. 
Mard• Gras '74: The Master of Middle Earth. Raffle sales NOW. Carnival Feb. 1-8. Masked Ball Feb. 1. A Long­expected party. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost gold man's watch north dining hall Mon. Call 8687. 
Lost miniture battery powered 
TV at USC game.  in senior  
section.  Reward.  Call  Bill  
233-1032.  

Lost SCHOOL BELL and cowbell at pep rally in laundry bag. Reward tor schoolbell. Call 1602. 
Lost 1 student t D 1972-73. If Found, please call Tom Mendoza. 287-2581. 
PERSONALS 
There's a girl far away in Big 
D, 
As nice and as sweet as can be. Her Birthday_ ts here And we're sorry we fear, She's over the hill at twenty. Happy Birthday, Roomie! 
.... '' ....... ' ...... . 

.. 
,_-­
-.---------­
l. 
~ 1-f 
Thursday, November 1, 1973
12 

the observer
' ' 



'Luther. Luther. Luther·-­young. but aging quickly 
If adjusting only slowly to As big a thrill as it was, beatingby Sam Vannucci college life here, Bradley surely old nemesis Southern Cal and didn't waste any time adjusting to halting the nation's longest un­The Notre Dame-Southern Notre Dame football. "I knew it beaten string at 23 games, Luther:alifornia game Saturday was would be tough. This summer I insists the encounter with Purdueilled as it always is with pagentry, worked out pretty hard with the at Ross-Ade Stadium was evenky-high emotions, and tradition. 
weights and did a lot of running. more of a thrill. "It was the firstdl afternoon traditional cheers You need," he added, "more time playing on national T.V. and I uch as "HERE COME THE speed, quickness, and strength to was really excited."
RISH, HERE COME THE lpl~y ~~l.~ge football."
RISH" and "GO IRISH, BEAT ~ROJANS" rang throughout the 
On opening day, however,1ouse that Rockne built. Bradley experienced a different 
type of emotion. "Excited!! I was One new cheer, however, began so nervous and so scared that IJn USC's first offensive play and didn't want to come out of the vas chanted hysterically several tunnel." Although this fear has ,nore times during the course of subsided another still exists. "I'm:he game. Instead of the usual always afraid of getting beat long. 
~hant "DEFENSE, DEFENSE" You know, it makes you look bad."
t.he fans were screaming ''LUTHER, LUTHER, LUTHER." 
Getting beat is the one tnmg this Of course, LUTHER is none greying freshman doesn't have to other than Notre Dame's out­worry about. Luther's five in­
r.tanding freshman strong safety terceptions makes him the team 
Luther Bradley. The chant may leader and leaves him only a half have been new to Notre Dame dozen interceptions away from Stadium and to some of the Irish breaking Mike Townsend's 1972 
fans, but recognition is anything record. "I don't think about it...if but new to "young" Bradley. At it comes it comes." But the way \luncie Northside iHigh School Luther jokingly leaned back on his Luther was Mr. Everything desk chair, flexed h~chestmuscles especially for the football team. Luther Bradley and grinned with a sparkle in his eye, suggests that he may be "In high school, I played It seems that the 6-3, 195 pound thinking along different lines. "It 1uarterback for a year, and then Bradley knew exactly the right would be nicer," he added, "to be 
last year both offensive and things to work on. Mter one week n-o., defensive halfback." His all-state on the freshman team and another aonors attracted many a on second team, he became the Right now Luther's taking them 
:·ecruiter's eye from across the first freshman this fall to crack the one at a time, and that means ·:ountry. "I didn't know enough\. starting line-up. In ND's first six Navy this week. "Glenny (the tbout Notre Dame," Luther says, games he has been a superman­Navy QB) is a good passer. Last 'but when I came for a visit the breaking up passes, recovering year he completed 17 passes ' ~uys were super and everybody fumbles, and snagging five enemy against us. It gives us something
I , 
·eally seemed into the school and passes. to think about." he tradition. Itseemed like a good
~ t 
>lace to be." The "old man," as Mike
He attributes part of this success 
Townsend nicknamed him, may be
to his partner at safety Mike 
thinking just of Navy, but his
High school at Muncie is quite a Townsend. "They shy away from 
defensive prowess will un­
>it removed from college life at Mike (who intercepted 10 passes 
doubtedly carry over into the Pitt,
'lotre Dame especially if varsity last year) and try to test me out." 
Air Force, and Miami games.
'ootball is an integral part of your USC opened the game test Luther 
There will be Luther Bradley
iaily routine. "I'm adjusting to it and he passed it as he has passed 
batting down intended passes and

>lowly," he says, "It hasn'tbeentoo the five previous tests-with flying 
making circus interceptions as the
>ad... just the usual things. colors. "What can you say," says 
stadium rings with "LUTHER,
Lutherof the SC game, "We all
I haven't had time to write any LUTHER, LUTHER."
played together.;' 
letters." 

Air Force  tix  on  
sale next week  OBSERVER  
Student Tickets for the Air Force 'ootball game on Thanksgiving Jay will be available next week.  SPORTS  
'lotre  Dame  and  St.  Mary's  
;tudents  desiring  tickets  must  
<i  ·eport to the ticket windows on the ;econd floor of the ACC with their ;eason tickets and ID's. Those ;tudents whose tickets were ionated for use by the un­ Buggers stay· unbeaten  
ierprivileged children during the ~avy game must present the ·eceipts and their ID's.  by John Turchan Friday night's game against  Bob Olsen, team secretary, was particuarly pleased at the turnout Friday night. "The size of the  
Seniors are to report topurchase :ickets on Monday, November 5; Juniors, Graduate and Law ;tudents on Tuesday, November 6; 3ophomores on Wednesday, 'lovember 7; and Freshmen on fhursday, November 8. Married ;tudents desiring tickets for .hernselves and their spouses are  John Carroll University was the toughest encounter the Rugby team has had this season. However, the Notre Dame team continued its unbeaten streak with a hard-earned 16-o victory. Until Dave Simpson's 20-yard drop kick made the score 3-o the Irish kept the pressure on John Carroll ~ut were unable to score.  crowd definitely helped psyche me up." Olsen added, "the people who watched the game saw rugby at its best, not a high scoring game, but two balanced teams playing well­executed rugby." The Notre Dame rugby team's next home game will be on November 17 at Stepan fields.  
,,,.  .o report to the ACC '1/ovember 9.  on  Friday,  Aggressive running and blocking paid off in a Irish drive which saw  IH Hockey  
Notre Dame undergraduate ;tudents will not be charged for the .icket, while for the Graduate and ~aw students, as well as the ;pouses of married Notre Dame ;tudents, the charge will be $3.00. )aint Mary's students must pay ;5.00 for their tickets to the game.  Henry Clark plunge over for the score. The final score of the game was set up on a booming kick by the Irish fullback Jeff Warnimont. When John Carroll's fullback attempted to kick the ball back it was batted down and picked up by Eddie Fishburn. Fishburn decked  Interhall hockey rosters must be submitted to the Interhall Athletics Office, ACC C-4 by Friday, November 2. The roster is to be composed of aminimum of twenty players who represent the same hall. Requirements include a $20 team  
One student may present four tickets and ID's to obtain adjacent· >eats. ' ' ' '  one player and scampered in for the score. The two point con­version by Ed O'Connell was good.  fee to help pay the officials,-and the players' furnishing their own skates, sticks, and helmets.  


Bradley picks off one of the five interceptions he has so far this year. 

Extra Points 
==============================================:::===============================:::==============:=:=:::=Poor Seymour 
The party was a gala event. For it was a festive occasion. Notre Dame had just beaten Southern California;and the Irish fans, in such fashion as they are noted for, celebrated wildly. 
The drinks flowed freely, and spirits, already high from the afternoon's triumph, rose even higher. The conversation turned from Eric Penick's 85 yard touchdown run to hopes ofan undefeated season, a major bowl appearance, and even quite possibly a national championship. Ex­pectations were high indeed. 
As the party approached fulltilt, and the chants of "We're number one" grew louder and louder, a short, stocky man with neatly combed greying hair and rimless glasses walked into the room. He was dressed in a bright red suit, but it was quite dishelved looking, as if perhaps, a herd of Texas longhorns had trampled him on their way to slaughter. 
The gentleman's name was Seymour Incorrectly; those who knew him called him S.l. Now, out of courtesy, Seymour had been invited to this friendly get-together, and though it was so, the many Irish fans present had hoped that he would not make an appearance,but rather stay un­dercover. Although S.l., was well-respected, and his opinions sought, he was notorious for making the "Big Misktake." In fact he was more in­famous for that, than as he himself claimed Ara (the Irish idol) was for losing the "Big One." 
It seemed, not only to Notre Dame fans, but tosportsfans all over, that whatever Seymour spoke of eventually turned out for the worse, no matter how promsing his prediction. And if he had a picture, a full-size color picture with Seymour Incorrectly printed at the top, and a small caption written on it, the situation was hopeless. It was as dangerous as voodoo, or, to L.S.U., as a Tiger hunt. 
S.l. was noted especially for his most recent blunders. He was banished from the state of Texas afterpredictingthat the Longhorns would in 1973 reign as National Champs. Miami and Oklahoma contributed to his downfall, and he might have returned the favor had the Sooners been eligible and the Hurricanes a little more promising. but it was not so, and Seymour turned to SC. He was at full force for th is one, a full-color picture of A.D. Davis with Seymour Incorrectly again printed in big bold letters at the top, and of course, tbe caption, "Best of the Best." Well, so much for A.D.. and SC. 
Everyone at the party of course remembered the fateful predicition in 1971 that Notre Dame would be number one. And of course they couldn't forget 1970 when Seymour produced a magnificent color picture, divided into three separate sections complete with three different captions of Ohio State, Texas, and Notre Dame. Naturally, Nebraska won the National Title. 
They also looked with glee at '72 whenL.S.U. was picked to win it all, and Tiger skins quickly became "in vogue." Then during the '73 off­season, the fans recollected how S.l. was busy with many more color pictures including shots of Wilbur Wood, and Ron Blomberg and Bobby Murcer. Needless to say both the Sox and the Yanks consequently bit the dust. And the whammy continued. Pro football was next, and as ex­pected, as had been true year after year, Seymour made his picks and things quickly went in the opposite direction. 
So, as S.l. entered, the room fell silent. The fans became still and the air was filled with a sense of fateful expentancy. Each and ev~ryone of them was hoping, but it was not to be, for as Seymour stepped out to the middle of the room, he unfolded a brilliant color photograph complete with big yellow letters, his trademark: Seymour Incorrectly. And of course there was the familiar caption, and to the horror of the Irish fans it r~ad: "Notre Dame .stacks up USC." As if that weren't bad enough, pictured were defensive standouts Ross Browner, Drew Mahalic and Gary Potempa, prompting one fan to remark, "They'll probably all 'get a knee." 
But actua.lly th~ Iris~ fans were not so shocked nor nearly so horrified, for they believed m their team; they had confidence. They knew that no matter what Seymour had to say or what pictures to show, the Irish were number one. It would take a lot more than the S.l. jinx to bring down the Fighting Irish. 
Oh, by the way, perhaps you're wondering why poor Seymour has not been banished from all of society. Well it seems he's not always wrong a~d he's certainly not a bad sort. In fact there's always those UCLA pictures he has, and what about those Miami Dolphin photos. He isn't all bad. , 
Six down, five. to go. 
'' 









