On The Inside 
Frisbee Fly-ln... 
...page 3  
Infirmary's  woman  
doctor  
...page 7  




serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VIII, No. 5 Tuesday, September 11, 1973 

St. MaryS announces change in judicial policy 
Halls to dealvrith first offenders 
by Maria Gallagher St. Mary's Editor 

A change in Saint Mary's judicial policy was announced jointly last night by ~n Smith Hall Life Commissioner. and Laurie Bracken, Student Relations Board Chairman. Effective immediately, each hall will individually deal with a numt>er of hall­related problems that formerly would have been handled by the Student Relations Board. 
Until now, all campus infractions received a hearing before the Student Relations Board, and decisions of that body were appealed to the Appellate Board. Now first offenses such as violations of hall quiet, signout, curfew, smoking, cooking, and candle reguhitions will be dealt with by the hall in which they oc­curred. 


The new system will provide for a house council in each hall comprised of the hall president, a resident assistant, a wing representative, several at-large represen­tatives, one representative from the judicial board, and possibly the hall director. Smith said details had not been finalized, but suggested that the wing representative and resident assistant positions could rotate from meeting to meeting. 
The· policy change was recommended by the Planning Process Committee on Judicial Review. The Student Relations Board at the same time had been studying a similar plan and the two groups came to same con­elusions. Final approval came at last night's meeting of the Student Relations Board, the Hall Life Commission, and Dean of Students Kathleen Mulaney. 

halls responsiHe 
The move "puts the responsibility where it 
belongs-in the halls," according to Mulaney. 
In this way cases can be handled more ef­
fectively." 
Bracken noted that while the Judicial 
Board had virtually become a body for simply 
hearings and decisions, the new system will 
allow for more feedback. 


aims at prevention 
"The object is to prevent a second offense. 
The more personalized system will permit 
counselling and dialogue, and promote better 
relations than the former system," she said. 
The division also takes a load off the 
Judicial Board, which becomes a higher 
appeal board. The Appellate Board is now, in 
effect, the 'Supreme Court' of appeals. 

serious violations 
More serious offenses will go directly to the 
Judicial Board. These include violations of 
dorm security, male visitation, and 
possession and consumption of alcohol in the 
dormitories. 
"How well the new system works wll 
depend entirely on each hall," Bracken siad. 
The house councils will be subject to the Hall 
Life Commission and the Student Relation 
Board. 


Father Theodore Hesburgh, president of Notre Dame, flanked by Father David" Schlaever <to the left) and Howard Glickstein, were among the hundreds of participants and observers who packed LaFortune Student Center last night for Activities Night. Organizers of the Student Government-sponsored event expressed their pleasure with the turn-out at the night and estimated that the crowd was equivalent to last year's outing. They praised better organizations and arrangement of the activities as the keys to easing the crowded conditions of last year's event. 
HPCmeets to 


talk 0\er finances 
Members of the Hall President's Councial met Sunday night with Student Body President dDennis Etienne to discuss financial arrangements for the coming year. 
Both parties were reluctant to discuss anything definite after the meeting. "Anything decided still has to be passed by the Budget Commitee and the Board of Commissioners," said Fred Baranowski, head of the HPC. 
The Hall President's Council receivers all of its funds from Student Government , uasing them primarily for the Hall Life Fund and the yearly An Tostal festival. The cost of An Tostal is expected to rise this year as extra events are planned. 
The Hall Life Fund is primarily based in improvement of life in the halls, excluding maintenance. The procedure for allocation of funds, according to H-Man, "will remain 
pretty much the same as last year." The HPC ran into dif­ficulties last year with the Board of commissioners as to what exactly constitutes hall life improvement. The Board tended to lean towards more stable investments, such as televisions or ping-pong tables, whereas some of the. halls preferred to use money for hall dinners and other hall activities. It is not known just how the present Board will feel. "We met once last spring and we have yet to meet this fall," said Etienne. 
Allocationi g funds were a large progblem with the two organiz­tions last year, so this eyar an agreement on the money issue is the first priority. "We felt that once we got financial con­siderations out of the way,"said Barabowski, "things will run much smoother for both organizations. •· 
The HPC will have its first meeting tonight at 6:00 in the chapel of St. Ed's hall. 
the observer Tuesday, September 11, 1973
l 

! 
r 
r 
warld 
briefs 
New York-Fighting to the last for a postponement-John Mitchell 
and Maurice H. Stans, the first ex-cabinet members to face criminal 
charges in 50 years, were scheduled to on trial Tuesday on a 16 count 
federal indictment. 
An unprecedented 1500 potential jurors were summoned to \lanhattan federal district court for jury selection which may last a week. 
Washington -Deomocratic leaders in Congress Monday accepted President Nixon's peace overtures and took under consideration a package of 50 bills he wants passed, many of them before the end of the vear. 
But there was some Capitol Hill skepticism that Nixon's effort to smooth relations with Congress by his offer to compromise on legislation would work. 
London-Bomb explosions at two crowded London railroad stations injured 12 persons Monday -one of them gravely -and sent panic­stricken commuters fleeing in the bloodiest of Britain's current wave of terror bombings, police and hospital officials said. 
Police, as in previous incidents, blamed the bombing on Irish ex­tremists and said the injured included a baby in a perambulator and a Chinese couple standing close to one of the explosions. 
Detroit-In an unusual action apparently intended as a conciliatory gesture to h United Auto Workers -General Motors and Ford Monday agreed to extend the UAW contracts evan as the union prepared for a possible strike against Chrysler Corp. Friday night. 
Refusal to extend the contracts past 11:59 p.m. Friday would have put added pressue on the union to settle with Chrysler -the firm singled out by the UAW to set te pattern in this year's auto contract talks. 
an campus taday 
4:00 p.m.--afrotc lecture, library aud. and lounge 
4:30 p.m.--Seminar, opportunities for genetical research in africa, dr. revbern elombo. dept. of botany, university of Nilirobi. kenya, galvin life science aud. 
8: 15 p.m.--concert, indiannapolis brass quintet, sponsored by music dept., ad­mission $1, sacred heart church 
Farrowna~ned head of Social Science Lab 
The appointment of Dr. B. J. "Research Reports in the Social Farrow, associate professor of Sciences," a biannual publication psychology, as director of Notre of the laboratory. Dame's Social Science Training and Research Laboratory has been 
Farrow, who has served as announced by Rev. James T. acting director of the laboratory in Burtchaell, provost. 
Liu's absence from the campus for resear.:hand fellowship programs, 
Founded in 1965, the training joined the Notre Dame faculty in 
cdnter located in Memorial 1965. He received his un­
Library provided for the first time 
dergraduate degree at Washhburn a middle-ground where resear­University, a master's degree at 
chers in a number of disciplines University of Kansas, and a 
would have easy access tothe work doctorate in psychology at done by people in other disciplines. 
University of Texas. At Notre D01me, he has been engaged in Efforts of the historian, an­research measuring the respon­thropologist, economist and sive levels of retarded children. 
sociologist were beought together and assembled on compiter tape to 
The Observer is published daily
provide more complete answers to 
during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Da11;1e and St. 
a variety of sociological problems. 
Mary's College. Subscrlplions may be purchased tor S8 per 
Projects undertaken by the 
Laboratory included a community 
sem.,ster ($14 per year) from The
housing study, park and recreation 
Observer Box Q, Notre Dame,
researchk,and research on the 
Indiana 46556. Second class 
postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind.
nedds of the aged. Results of these 
46556.
studies have been published in 




Ind. govenor discusses issues in recent televised press conference 
within my authority to limit speed. 
by Leanne Jacques 
Legislature has that Staff Reporter 
authority ... although I do have authority to lower the limit in 
In a statewide closed-circuit certain areas." He revealed that television press conference held the legislature has voted 2-1 Monday, Indiana Governor Otis against lowering the speed limit Bowen answered questions con­after considering travelling cerning the economy, phosphate salesmen and truck drivers. The pollution, and speed con-Governor feels the state has been trol. successful in reducing the overall death rate through safety
Bowen said, on the issue of In­precautions. He went so far as todiana's tax return of the federal say"twenty Hoosiers would not bedollar," I have made a big effort to alive today if it had not been for the convince congressman that In­Safety Patrol and the Nationaldiana needs a greater return of Guard over the three longfederal tax." 
weekends."

Joint meetings with congressmen When asked why the Michigan
in Indianapolis and a recent shoreline area in Indiana was not 
meeting in Washington dealt with declared a disaster area after 
.. Governor Bowen was questioned
the problem of finding various flooding, Governor Bowen
on the economy, pollution aud
programs to increase return of replied,"There has to be at least 3speed control.
federal money. At this time, In­million dollars worth of damage
diana ranks fiftieth in the nation in done in order to declard a disaster 
receit of the federal dollar. 
area. This requirement was not for sanitation purposes. Bowen met by the Indiana flood area." Another issue deait with the said this would be no threat te The Highway Department did aid 
· percentage of phosphate in In­Indiana residents. in rebuilding streets and roads. diana. Governor Bowen expa­Governor Bowen's final com­lained that no action has been Bowen also briefly touched upon ments dealt with the Indianapolis taken by the legislature to attempt the question of whether to lower Star's campaign to impeach Judge to increase the percentage wihieh the highway speed limit. It has Dillon, who ispushingforsegregated is now zero. He did, however, list been argued that a lowering of the education. The Governor remark­certain dairy and meat industries present speed limit would conserve ed, "I am glad I can live in a which have been authorized to use gas and lower the fatality rate. country that allows this type of a higher percentage of phosphate Governor Bowen said, "It isn't 
thing. I follow it with interest." 
,.. ........ -~~...............~--..........................""""..~""'...._._..........._ .........-,<! .......---· ·--··---·-"'-••_..,.
..... .... 



g~gg g~~Eij 
•rhla 
Jvt1/Uv.. .lvtA 
¥4.
.. . 
1'.;:_­
--~


r •l
t
-..4 
*Student Billing Card 
The time is NOW! There is no standing in line! There is i1o extra charge! 
With a Student Billing Card, 
residence hall people may make long 
distance telephone calls with the pri­
vacy of their own room phones and 
get an individual bill once a month. 
And you can take advantage of 
Direct Distance Dialing ... the mod­
ern way to call long distance, within 
Indiana or out of state. 
We'll mail you a Student Billing 
Card, if you'll call 234-5088. Or you 
can drop in at our Business Office at 
225 S. Main Street. Open 8 a.m. to 
5 p.m. Monday through Friday. 

@Indiana BeD 
'. 


~-------------------------------------------------­
-· "'!". ,. :,., ,'_,,'; , ••• 
Tuesday,. September 11, 1973 the observer 
3 


Great frisbee fly-in scheduBI Sunday at mall 
by Kit Baron 
Staff Reporter top ten players repeat the process, ruies: the time recorded on the first 1. Two teams line up behind foul throw will not be used in judging lines which are 15 yards apart.
Thousands of frisbees are now the second throw. The process 2. Before each throw, thewithin "fling 's-reach·' to all repeats as the top five people members of the receiving teamstudents and faculty members so throwing vie for first, second and position themselves so that theirthat they can prepare for the third place &wards. The Distance finger tips touch.
GREAT Frisbee Fly-In Competition is very similar to thewhich will be held at 2PM Sunday, MTA, but has defined boundaries. 3. The Frisbees must be caughtSeptember 30 at the 9-acre site In the last of the Individual Events cleanly in one hand. Trap catches located by Ayr-Way, Town & Competition, the Accuracy Con­against the body are counted as aCountry. These free frisbees are test, each player gets three throws miss. However, the Frisbees mayavailable today at the Ayr-Way ­at a tire fifteen yards away. bounce or •ricochet from player toTown & Country and Scottsdale Finalists are determined by the player any number of times priorshopping centers and will ac­·number of frisbees that are thrown to a final catch. A catch is alsocompany any sandwiches and coke through the tire. If a tie should considered fair if caught by twopurchase at the Roseland Burger occur, the persons throw until a players, provided each uses onlyKing starting Friday winner is determined. one hand.
Three separate competitions will While the Individual Eventshighlight the FLY -IN: Individual category requires the individual to 4. A throw is considered legal asEvents. Guts Frisbee & Ultimate participate, Guts Frisbee and long as the receiver can catch theFrisbee. Comprising the Ultimate Frisbee Competietions Frisbee without crossing the foul
Individual Events competition 
frisbee combies competitive spirit and physical fitness. 
are team activities. The classic line, without jumping in the air, or are the M.T.A., the Distance and 
Guts Frisbee match pits five in the case of an outside receiver, Ultimate frisbee combines the another. Players are not allowed
the Accuracy Contests. In the 
against five, however teams without moving beyond the stance utmost of competitive spirit and to run with the Frisbee after
MTA,(Most time aloft), the frisbee 
frequently vary from two to eight he assumes prior to the throw. physical fitness. The following catching it, although momentum is 
must be thrown into the air and 
players. Trying not to allow the 5. One point is awarded to the regulation is a condensed version taken into consideration.
caught by the thrower cleanly with 
opposing team to catch the Frisbee throwing team for any legally of the 1971-1972 edition of the 9. Members of the defensive
one hand. A player gets three 
is the major objective of Guts delivered throw that is not Ultimate Frisbee Official Rules: l"am may regain possession of the
throws and the longest time aloft of 
each player is recorded. When the Frisbee. The Official Frisbee properly caught. Frisbee in 3 ways: by intercepting 
the The only required equipment by
Handbook defines following 6. One point is awarded to the 1. a throw made the attacking
is a Frisbee, although players have 
catching team if the throw is not team; by knocking down a pass
the option of using any artificial
catchable as described above in made by the attacking team; or if
aids they desire (hats, helmets,
rule number 4. the attacking team attempts a pass
gloves, etc.> provided these do not com­
7. Guts Frisbee is a gentlemen's which is not successfully
endanger the opponents. Cleated
game, and it is up to the receiving pleted.
shoes are permitted, but those with 
team to rule on whether or not a 10: Guarding of the player in
sharp spikes are not.

catch was cleanly made. If a possession of the Frisbee is per­
2.The basic playing field for
dispute arises, the throw is mitted prior to the throw but no
Ultimate Frisbee is 60 yards by 40
repeated. contact is permitted, and the
yards, with unlimited end zones.
8. Each game of Guts Frisbee is defensive player may not knock
3. An official may be apppointed 
won by the first team to score the Fisbee from his opponent's
and, if so, the decision of the of­
twenty-one points, provided the grasp.
ficial is binding. The honor system 
margin over the opponents is at 11. A pass completed out of 
may also be used with a coin flip
least two points. A Guts Frisbee bounds is not allowed and
employed to resolve any disputes. 
match is won by the first team to possession goes to the defensive
4. The game has forty-eight
win two games. team at the point where the
minutes of playing time, divided 
Frisbee intersected the lateralinto two halves. Half time in­boundary.

termission is ten minutes. The 12. As soon as a goal is scored,clock is stopped for throwoffs the scoring team defends the(similar to the kickoff in football). 
goal it has just attacked andA team must be in possession of the throws off to the other team.

Frisbee to call a time out. 
13. Substitutions are permitted

5. The object of the game is to only after a goal is scored and gain points by scoring goals. One 
before the ensuing. throwoff, topoint is awarded for each goal. A replace an injured player, and atgoal is scored when one member of halftime. 

the attacking team passes the 
14. Fouls may be called when Frisbee to a teammate who cat­body contact exceeds legal limits, 
ches the Frisbee beyond the goal and the offended team is awarded 
line. 
the Frisbee at the point of the in­6. A coin flip determines which fraction. Should the infraction 

team will throw off, and allows for occur in the end zone, possession is the choice of goal to defend. On the awarded at the goa line. 
throwoff, all team members must 15. Additional rules and ground 
Page 3 stand on their own goal line until 
rules may be adopted prior to the the Frisbee has been released. No game by consent of the opposingmember of the team throwing off captains. 

can touch the Frisbee until it has 16. An alternate version of been touched by a member of the Ultimate Frisbee, for particularly
receiving team. use of
adept players allows theFrosh offered tour of South Bend 7. The receiving team may only one hand in catching.
either catch the Frisbee or allow it to hit the ground, taking possession 
At the carnival tommorrow, a 

at that point. If, however, a miniature fly-in will be held near theThursday, Friday and Saturday, get acquainted with it, Hofman Friday night cookout. and two member of the receiving team Frisbee booth where more in­
buses will leave from Stepan trips to the Dunes planned for mid­attempts to catch the Frisbee and 
said. The tours will include stops formation pertaining to Notre 
Center to take Notre Dame fresh­October. is unsuccessful, the team throwing 
at the Scottsdale Mall and 100 Dame's team w'll be available. 
men on a tour of the South Bend Hofman noted that during the off is awarded possession of the
Center. It will also help the fresh­Organizing this activity in behalf 
area, according to Emil T. Hof­second semester, two trips will be Frisbee at the point where it hits
men acquaint themselves with the of the Northern Indiana Collegiate
man, Dean of Freshmen Year of sponsored by his office into the ground.
shopping, banking and other Frisbee Team, one WSND official 
Studies office. Chicago. Again, the trips will be 8. The Frisbee must be ad­
services outlets in the city. commented, "people have taken
The buses will depart at 3 p.m. designed with up to 200 freshmen vanced down the field by means of frisbees too lightly for too long."
Thursday and Friday and at 9 a.m. The tour was designed by Hof­participants in mind. being thrown from one player to 
·' 

man this summer with the help of proximately three hours. some upperclassmen. Hofman Hofman encouraged all fresh­pointed out that many up­men interested to pick up tickets at 
Saturday. The tour will last ap­
perclassmen still don't know their 
Flanner plans to clean up illlage
way around South Bend. He citedthe Freshman Year office as soon probably be expusion, according tothe case of a senior who questionedas possible. 
Flanagan.

He explained that the tours are him recently about where the by Denny McLean Parietal violations will also meet catch the bus from downtown back designed to take as many as 200 
Staff Reporter with stricter enforcement thisto the campus.
people on a tour of downtown South year. The hall staff will be moreBend and the outer-lying areas of The tour plans are only 
one Flanner Hall, one of the more aware of blatant parietals
aspect of the whole program laidthe city. 
infamous "party halls" on cam-regualtions that went unenforced
The tour is a chance for the out by the Freshmen Year office. 
pus, is apparently go!ng to get a last year.
Also included in the program arefreshmen to see South Bend and 
cleaner image accordmg to Frank When questio Flanagan, president of Flanne. ed about student reaction,
Registration scheduled 
Fr. John "Moose" Mulcahy an-Flanagan replied that he students nounced the crackdown at a recent do not know what to expect and are 
hall meeting. uptight about lhe whole situation. The rules will be markedly He felt that a lot of students 

for American scene 
sponsored by the perfcrming arts 
different from pst years, when resented this intrusion on their own
series,student development, the 
Registrationand orientation for academic commission, and parties flourished. Alcohol is responsibility. 
The American Scene: A Cultural fourteen departments of Saint forbidden in the hallways. Parties lanagan did not know whether Series will be held Wednesday, Mary's. must be contained i the ne ·crackdown is a result of September 12, at 7:30 p.m. in the student's room with the door administrative pressure. He did Carroll Hall, Saint Mary's. The All sessions are open to the closed. note that Father Mulcahy did not 
series of lectures, musical and general public. For additional As in past years, any students seem as stri t last years as rector of dramatic events and other cultural information contact the caought selling or pushing drugs Alumni hHall. presentation~ 's being offered as humanistic studies department, will be "dealt with severely." This Father Muldahy declined to .. Flaririer's notorious image as a 


aone-<:redit hour, pass-fail course. 284-4246, or the education depart-
year enforcement will be much romment on the new cracdown on party hall may soon disappear.
The American Scene is co-. ment, 284-4129. more strict and punishment would · rules. 


THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Art Ferranti Executive Editor 
Lee Gentine Business Manager Jerry Lutkus Dan BarrettEditor-in-Chief Executive Editor 

NEWS: 283-1715 EDITORIALS: 283-8661 
John Kloos Advertising Manager

BUSINESS: 283-7471 
Tuesday, September 11, 1973 
The Unsigned 
Two discouraging letters appeared in 

he Observer office in the past week, both with one thing in common ... their authors choose to shroud themselves L1 ~he sE:'crecy of anonyminity. (The Ob­server cannot and will not run letters that are unsigned.) 
'l'he first letter was a "Poem." It was from an ex-Farley resident who wept over his departure from the hall. His emotions are understood and ex­plainable, except for the closing portion of the poem. "Farley, may you rot in hell. May your walls fall, and may I live to tell; how women entered Notre Dame ann things just never seemed the same." 
It is a shame that such tripe has to be written, but it is likewise a mark of abject cowardice on the part of the author to hide in the anonymous signature of a "refugee." 
It does not appear that many Domers share the authors' sympathies. There are the hard feelings in many of the­Farley and B-P exiles that were in the hearts of the ex-residents of Badin and Walsh last year when they saw women moving into "their halls." But as the last year passed, so too did the hard feelings. 
But vehement nonsense of this order is something that will not wear away because it is the sign of a ridiculous, immature sickness, a sickness that could destroy much of Notre Dame if the people 
here ever allowed it to grow. The second letter, likewise anonymous, attacked the "Developmental 
Discipline"  philosophy  presented  by  
Dean  of Students  John  Macheca  in  a  
recent Observer story.  ...  he ietter  was  

signed, "'T'o avoid discipline, anon." 
The signature reveals a lot about what the author said earlier in the piece. He claimed that the discipline theory is much Pke a child being whipped by his father and the signature shows the fear factor ever so present at Notre Dame. 
The author apparently does not trust the new Dean of Students. In fact, he is afraid of him. ThE> fear of this sort, that is found all over Notre Dame, is utterly absurd. A new administration of sorts is in office under the leadership of Phillip Faccenda, and it must be given a chance to show what it is aU about before allowing the fear factor to force the students to conclusions. 
In the future, The Observer will stick to a set policy for the printing of letters. They all must be signed, but signatures will be withheld upon request. The letter~ should be typed. With these regulations, no more will writers, forced by the fear factor or attempting to hide themselves within a secret while flailing out at thoe around them, be allowed to take petty shots from these pages. If you want to say something, say it and admit you said it. 
Jerry Lutkus 

Congrats, SG 
[ 
Last night, La Fortune Student Center was packed with people, almost all of whom were attracted to the scene by Activities Night. To say it was a vast 
success would be a terrible un­derstatement. 
Last year, Student Government moved the night to the student center out of cavernous Stepan Center. That move was the key to the recent success of the night and also one of the keys in the rejuventation of the student Out of last year's Activities Night committee 
[{l(!ilt~'[
•:Hl
J.1DII !;_\~. 
~n::N 
~ 
];~ 


'WEU. YU, D1C1C. I DO UALI.ZE MOTHER ALWAY1 UKED ME MORE THAN YOU • • • II 
came the committee that worked hard all last year to produce plans for the renovation of the center. 
The organization of the night was better this time around and stately LaFortune even agreed to keep the lights on all night--not like last yearwhenall the lights managed to extinguish themselves. 
Congratulations to Student Govern­ment and particularly to the members of the Orientation Committee. . .you've done one helluva job. 
Jerry Lutkus 
the observer 
Night Editor: Kathy Schwille Ass't. Night Editor: Rubert Baker Layout: Mitsy and Dan Typists: Barb Norcross, Mike Goetz, C. Rechtsteiner, Phil Or­scheln, Howard Halle. Night Controller: John Flannigan 
• ? ' 
) : 
Ms.r:~ivinr:~s 

Letter From ·' ~-~J . A FreshrncJ1 
I \ ·/. :· 
, I, maria 1Jalla1Jher 
Dear Maria, 

So this is_ what I worried a!ld ragged about for the better part of two years'? Still too early to give an overall picture of law school life because. not all classes are in full swing, the hot weather discourages academic thought and, frankly, I don't know what the hell I'm doing. 
One clas1> A bummer is the roommate situation. Very bad. Both are Vietnam (Army) veterans with small (I mean really small) town background~. Worse, theY_ keep those early-to-bed, early-to-rise hours, they Jog and play tenms, and have no redeeming vices. It's like living with two refugees from The Twilight Zone . 
.Ann_ ~rbor is a freaky town -lots of street people, pinballl arcades, pizza JOints, sub shops (a South Bend rarity), and a bagel joint (where can you buy a bagel in South Bend'?) within 1/2 mile of the law school. All.kind~ of burned-{)ut indiv_iduals hang aroung the Union and along S. Umversity Ave. <both of whiCh are visible from my window). Prices here are exorbitant and tenants are the worst victims of price gouging. 
No cheap, dirtballl bars to the best of my knowledge--live , 1­tertainment is the rule at most-and like South Bend Ann Arbor 's townies are out for a big catch. ' 
Law stude~ts are difficult to characterize. Most, fortunately, are more fun-lovm~ than my roommates. A good sprinkling of ND grads up here, mcludmg Ruch Urda, '71, a Barkett kingpin way back when student government was really elitist. 
~ot t~e usual s~are t_actics from the law school brass during 

orientatiOn week, mcludmg the following gems: "--someone has to finish last in your class" "--even the anchorman (last in class) can look forward to a suc­
cessful career" "--you are the brightest class ever admitted to this institution" "-some of you had bettergetused to receiving poorer grades than 
you're accustomed to" "-and so on, all week, fire and br;mstone. Got my ticket for U-M games. Only Stanford and Ohio State will be 
re~lly good. There are 7 home gam~s this fall; some of them are Mmnesota <bad), Indiana <worse) anJ Navy <pitiful). A 9-1 or 10-0 season, depending on the OSU game. 
The $5 pot law is no longer in effect. Seems it took the AA police away from their traffic ticket business, which is booming. Parking is impossible --5 cars per available space. 
How is life at SMC this year'? I imagine the influx of new coeds hasn't brought any significant change. 
.You really do have to see this place to believe it. The law quad has a higher G-Q < gothiticity quotient) than the South Quad at ND --the insides of buildings look like churches Oike Sacred Heart for in­stance>. One thing different from ND, though -no familiar fa~es. It's hard breaking in again after four years. 
Please write, and tell eveyone else to do the same. Next year when you're a grad, maybe you'll realize how I feel right now. 
Sincerely, ND '73 

Shalom 
Back Again 

bill sahn 
Gee, it's great to be back. At least it beats a sweaty factory. Now I can sweat in my room <pressure-cooker.) Sometimes at home I kid my mother, telling her that according to the alma mater, Notre Dame is my mother. Well, just lilte home, my mother isn't making my bed. I wonder if Patti has some free time. 
Back at the observer. What a great bunch of people. Fringe benefits like pizza at I a.m. on the night we got the first issue out. I guess it's worth it. I guess. 
Best of all it's great to be back at Holy Cross, the home of the Hogs. Never before has there been a collection of greater guys. 
This year's freshmen seem to be good guys. Even the one across the hall who noticed my jewish star, which I wear on a chain around my neck, and told me he had never met one before. Well, I've done my bit for Notre Dame. 
It's time to start classes. 9 o'clock! What a lousy time to get up. I was awakened earlier by the Freshmen on their way to their 8 o'clocks. I remember when I was a Frosh and had S's all week. My God, am I that old already'? 
The campus seems pretty much the same as last year ex­cept. ...... my God! Al' the girls! Is this the same Notre Dame I left last spring'? You know, the one that plays football. Lace curtains on the windows of Breens-Phillips hall! I remember back when I was a Freshman and Notre Dame was still an all male school.. ..... 
Then, there's the dining hall. Air conditioned. Wow. And the food, well you can't have everything. Wasn't registration fun'? What we need is a class for waiting in line. Three hours credit, of course. It's good to be back. Notre Dame isn't such a bad place. As Professor Pangloss says, "This is the best of all possible worlds." 
TNATWWf?t' 
daanesbury 
IJarry trudeau 

.I IXJ'I'r 7li!NI< SO, MARl<. 'z /J/1/ATCIIA BECAIJSG 1HINK ITS 8ECAI/5t HfJif)S
51ARIN6 tHEY MJ t.W&E HA!J/3 
()~ YOf/

«<ANr ANY &Ff'al.T! VNTI/.. Ha?, BOY... 
TO. NOUI, THAT /5. 61/YS! \ I
\ 0 " 
11-fl 

-
Tuesday, September 11, 1973 
the observer 5 t t t 
j 
~

Nixon oHers new State of the Union message 
WASHINGTON <UPI) -Sum­mary of President Nixon's new State of the Union message Monday: 
Accused Congress of threat­ening to add $6 billion to. ~s $268.7 billion budget and failing to make mol'e than $1 billion in spending cuts he requested. 
"I continue to be adamantly opposed to attempts at balanc­ing the over-all budget by slashing the defense budget...I will veto any bill that includes cuts which would imperil our national security." 
He asked for more flexibile authority to raise and lower tariffs and to control exports of scarce commodities. 
Reaffirmed opposition to a tax increase, but urged sim­plification of the tax system and a tax credit to help the low-income elderly pay their property taxes. 
Pledged "decisive action" to fight inflation. Called for approval of the trans-Alaska oil pipeline, con-

Bombs explode in 
London train stations 
.. LONDON <UPI<-BoTibs explooe1 in two busy train :;tations in central LGndon today, mjuring at least a 'iozen persons, two of them critical;y, police said. 
A police inspector at Euston Statbn, where a bomb shattered a crowded diner right at the lunch hour, initially said an Oriental man was killed. Later, however, Scotland Yard said it could not confirm any deaths. 
Police said two of the injured were not expected to live. 
The other explosion went off at Kings Cross Station, 
where a bomb exploded in an unused ticket station 
bl~Side a crowded train platform. At least six persons, 
including a young child, were injured in that explosion, 
police said. 
Bomb seares forced evacuation of thre~ other 
sl.ations·-Liverpool, Charing Cross and Victoria. 
Police investigated a suspicious par·cel at Charing 
Cross. 
The bomb attack was the bloodiest in the current three-week-old terrorist campaign blamed by Scotland Yard on the Irish Republican Army. It coincided with the start of the trial of 10 persons charged with planting bombs in March which killed one person and injured more than 100 outside the Old Bailey criminal court and Whitehall, seat of the British government. 
Demo leaders skeptical of Nixon's 'peace' efforts 
By STEVE GERSTEL submitted and what we have 
WASHINGTON <UPI> scheduled. Democratic leaders in Congress "It's jus a question of Monday accepted President details," Albert added. "We're Nixon's peace overtures and willing to meet the President took under consideration a half way and in some cases, package of 50 bills he wants more than half way." 
passed, many of them before Many of the bills on the list, the end of the year. outlined in Nixon's State of the 
But there was some Capitol Union message Monday, are in Hill skepticism that Nixon's the hearing state, passed by effort to smoothe relations with either the Senate or House, or Congress by his offer to already in conference. Some compromise on legislation others, like housing and nation-would work. a! health insurance, have not 
"The President feels he is been submitted by the adminis­
trying to compromise his way," tration. Speaker carl Albert said after One of the major confronta­Nixon met with House leaders tions may come from Nixon's over breakfast. "He feels his threat in his message that he willingness to compromise is would veto any cuts in his genuine." defense budget.
"Well, that's too bad,"

"But what we might call a compromise might go too far Mansfield said. 
"We have no sacred cows,"

with him and his views might 
the Senate Democratic Leader

go too far for us,"
Senate Democratic Leader added. "I'm sure we can 
Mike Mansfield, who met with simplify that budget, maintain 
Nixon last week, said be feels a strong defense posture, and 
the President is serious about get away from these exotic Programs."
averting confrontations and 
added "my impression is that "We're going to defense 
the President intended to bring ourselves right into bankrupt­
about a degree of cooperation" cy," Mansfield said. 
by meeting with congressional Mansfield also predicted that 
leaders. Congress would reduce Nixon's 
Mansfield said Congress fiscal 1974 budget and appeared 
would give Nixon's new list of ·undisturbed about possible
clashes between now and final

legislative proposals prompt adjournment. consideration and Albert noted "There will be honest differ­that "there was nothing much ences between us," Mansfield 
different from what he has 
said. 

struction of deepwater ports for big oil tankers, and an end to federal regulation of natural gas prices to encourage ex­panded exploration and produc­tion. 
Also, environmental stand­ards to allow safe use of strip mmmg to exploit U.S. coal reserves, tripling of leases for offshore oil and gas wells, and cancellation of oil leases in the 
·santa Barbara channel off California along with develop­ing inland oil reserves previous­ly set aside for national <iefense. 
Legislation setting policy ·on land use, safeguards against toxic substances, incentives for states to guarantee safe drink­ing water. 
Shift of most federal school aid from direct f~eral grants to revenue. sharm~, us~ . of revenue sharmg for JOb trammg programs, and reform of fe<_leral stan<_lards which govern pnvate pensiOn plans. 
Federal pilot project funds for Health Maintenance Organi­zations, which provide prepaid group. care stressing preventive medicme. 
Legal services for the poor, 
greater "self-dete:mination" fi!r Indians, an Office of Consumer Affairs and extension · of ACTION, the volunteer 
service agency. 
Extension of the FHA mort-· 
gage program, $125 million in 
federal aid to help bankrupt 
railroads reorganize, disaster 
relief reform with more local 
rlecision-making. 
Tough new penalties for 
heroin traffickers. Restoration 
of the death penalty for 
treason, assassination, certain 
acts of sabotage and espionage, 
and violatbn of selected federal 
laws in which death results. 

Prices inaease only moderately as freeze on beef prices is lifted 
By United Press International 
The price freeze on beef ended Monday but prices rose only marginally as supplies increased. Retailers predicted it would take at least a week for the price level to start going 
up. 
And there was no stampede to the supermarkets by the nation's housewives. 
As supplies started moving to the market speedily for the first time in a month, beef prices in most areas remained the same as they have been in past weeks. 
In Detroit, the Wrigley supermarket chain said it would not raise prices for a week although Farmer Jack supermarkets said it would hike the prices of some select cuts. 
In New Orleans, the Pee-Dee supermarket said its prices would remain the same for awhile-sirloin steak, $1.99 and T-Bone, $2.09 a pound. "It will be much easier to get meat now. We'll be able to get anything we want from now on. 
In New York, wholesale prices of beef rose only 6 per cent with the end of the freeze, less than was expected. In Houston, the wholesale price was down by about one and a half cents per pound. 
Retail prices at the Tom Thumb supermaket chain in Dalias actually decreased to pre-freeze and pre-shortage levels. The chain took out full page ads to say they would stop giving trading stamps, appar­an tly so they could offer reasonably priced meats ­rump roast $1.59 and sirloin $1.79. 
The Cost of Living Council 
Upset robber 
apprehended 
New York <UPil-An admitted bank robber, "peeved" at being short-changed by $8,000 in a holdup last month, returned to the scene of his alleged crime Thursday to straighten accounts. 
But when John Cury Hyman entered a midtown bank this time, the teller who "gypped" him was being questioned by an FBI agent about the earlier robbery and was inspecting mugshots of possible suspects. 
The teller, who was not iden­tified, noticed Hyman in line and said the suspect looked a lot like the man "standing on the line over there. You know, I believe it is the same man." 
Sure enough, when Hyman reached the teller's cage, he allegedly passed over a robbery note. The agent moved in, in-. formed Hyman of his con­stitutional rights and made the arrest. 
"I was peeved," Hyman, 37, told newsmen after his arraignment in federal court. 
removed beef from the price everybody jumps in and tries to freeze as of midnight Sunday­buy the cost will probably go two days before originally up 'some. If people don't, it scheduled. won't " said Leon Stephens, 
Consumers "are playing a meat 'purchaser for the Montesi wait and see game before supermarket chain in Memphis. makng any purchases...until a Prices will also depend on noticeable change in the prices how much more beef hits the are established," said Charles market. Farmers had been 
Monasee, president of the holding back cattle during the Hinky-Dinky supermarkets, the early stages of Phase IV in largest chain in Nebraska. hopes of getting a higher price 
Retailers said post-freeze when the freeze ends. A large price increases depended large­supply hitting the market would ly on the consumer. "If hold the price down. 
Quick settle1nent of paper strike unlikely 
by United Press International 
Prospects for settling labor disputes in eastern Canada's paper industry appeared more remote Monday following rejec­tion of a tentative agreement by workers of one company, a strike in another and a walkout that could lead to the stalling of a settlement in a third. 
Canadian and American newspapers already have been forced to cut back on editorial and advertising content due to the current newsprint shortage caused by strikes in the industry. 
Latest to walk out were 400 
workers at the MacMillan 
Rothesay plant in Saint John, 
N.B. The workers, members of the United Paperworkers Inter­national Union <UPIU), struck Sunday. 
In Thunder Bay, Ont., some 1,300 UPIU members last weekend narrowly rejected a tentative agreement worked out last Wednesday between the union and Great Lakes Paper Co. Ltd. A strike vote was to be taken next Friday. 
At Iroquois Falls, Ont., 1,000 UPIU members at the Abitibi Paper Co. Ltd. Mill walked off the job Sunday for the second time in three days although the union reached a tentative settlement with Abitibi Friday. 
The workers at Iroquois Falls .;aid the agreement did nothing to resolve their scheduling difficulties. They first walked out Friday morning when the UPIU-Abitibi talks broke down, then returned to work when tentative settlement was reached later in the day. 


Tuesday, September 11, 1973
the observer
6 

Changes to occur in Student Health Services 
by Jim Melia to a In­
be referred specialists.

year, any access to the infirmary all . . and in case of emergencyStaff Reporter after 4 p.m. must be made through patients totalled 512 for which the physician can be reached at all 
the front entrance. The wearing of case was serious enough to require 
limes. 
The. Student Health Service shoes or other footwear has also hospitalization. Department and Student In­been made mandatory. Just pointed out that the Student A psychological counseling firmary have planned a sub­Just also expressed satisfaction Health Services receives the center under the direction of Dr. stantial number of changes in the in the capabilities of the Infirmary largest portionof the StudentAffairs charles J. Arens operates on the area of Health Carelorthe coming staff. Director of the Infirmary Budget. This necessitates a same hourly basis as the clinic and year. according to Brother Just, this year is Sr. Miroam Dolores a­continual effort on the part of makes itself available to any type 
Student Health Services to get the of personal problem. C'S.C, newly appointed head of sisted by Doctor Francis M. Sellers Student Health Services. and Dr. Helen M. Calvin. Several 
most for its money, he said. As a 
Just outlined a number of ofThe most significant of these registered and practical nurses result, a study is courrently under goals which the Student Healthchanges. said Brother Just, will and an administrative staff of Ho way to reassess and further im­Services hopes to accomplish ininvolve the implementation of the Holy Cross order of nuns are prove the entire Health Service the coming year. Primarily, thesystem.

more efficient procedures for the also on hand. 
depa:t~ent will attempt to

rapid diagnosis and treatment of To illustrate the effectiveness of The Infirmary is ba..ically famihanze the student body withYarious ailments. At pesent, any a fac!lity liKe the infirmary, Just composed of an out-patient clinic, the services of the Infirmary. Asserious disorder is immediately quoted some statistics. A total of a 42_-bed infirmary area, a well as provide the universiydiagnosed and referred to St. 20,714 patients visited the Infrmary techmcallaboratory and a pharm­community with an adequateJoseph Hospital in South Bend. for some type of disorder during cy. The Health Service also .. Brother Just plans more ef­disease prevention program. TheIn addition, a new security the 72-73 school year. This maintains the student medical ficient procedures. Student Health Service is fi system has been implerr:cnted amounts to roughly three visits per records. The clinic is open from 9 anced primarily through student which will minimize the chances of student enrolled. Of that number a.m. to 4 p.m. for students with sultation with the fees which provide for clinic visits ,·andalism. he said. Starting this l4!ll cases were serious enough t~ minor problems or seeking con-Registered nurses are on :luty at and for admission to the In­firmary. 
Off-campus patients are charged $10.00 a day for room and board,

Caznpus briefs • • • 
medicines and laboratory work. All students are responsible for may be another ACC concert expenses incurred from a non­

bicycle will be tagged with the scheduled later, but no definite infirmary physician or fromsocial security number for iden­Several changes and corrections plans are available. another medical facility.
tification and to aid in recovery in 
in the fall concert schedules have
Saint Mary's students must 

the event of theft. Secth theft. 
bee~ announced by Richard
register cars by September 15 or Security recommends bicycle 

Donovan, Student Union conc£'rt
be subject to a $50 fine, according 
ND music department

registration although it is not coordinator.
to the security office. 
mandatory.

Registration fee is $25 per year Contrary to yesterday's Ob­or $15 per semester for on campus 
server article, Elton John is not 
announces 11ew personnel
scheduled to appear at ND and was never signed to do so. 
students, and $10 per year for off­
campus. Seniors and day students The only concert planned for A director for the University of in Harrisburg where he initiatedare permitted to have cars, while Notre Dame Glee Club and

Stepan Center is this Saturday's the Salem Recital Series, and has
underclassmen must secure 

appearance of Pure Prairie University Chorus and a also served as head of the choralpermission from the dean of Auditions for jazz and-or rock University organist and director of 
students. TheM lot adjacent to the soloists and players will continue League. Three other previously department in Queen Anne's 
announced concerts are scheduled music at Sacred Heart Church on County ::.chools, Centreville, Md.
dining hall is reserved for student today at 6:30 p.m. in the vehicles. Washington Hall Bandroom for the for the ACC: Chuck Berry and the the campus, have been appointed Ms. Seid has served on the music 
by William J. Cerny, chairman of

A registration card may 'Je Notre Dame Jazz Band and Coasters on September 22, New staffs at the Eastman School 
the Music Department.

'Riders of the Purple Sage nd Bowling. Green State Universityobtained from the security office. Combos. 
Roger McGuinn on October 5, and The new assistant professors of and Midwestern University ofThis is to be filled anout and Players interested in studying music, David Clark Isele and Sue Wichita Falls, Texas. She received presented to the cashier. The jazz who cannot attend uesday's the Carpenters on October 27. 
auditions should contact Father Also appearing at the ACC, on Henderson Seid, have both gained an undergradl.'ate degree in music
student will receive a parking sticl~.er upon presentation to Wiskirchen at 6303 for further November 3, will be Paul Simon. wide acclaim in concert ap­at Han?ver College in Indiana, security of the receipt from the information. All the above concerts, with the pearances in this country and masters degree at Drake 
cashier's office There are still openings on any exception of the Carpenters, are abroad. University, Desmoines, and is instrument, but especially for sponsored by Notre Dame -In addition to directing the Glee currently a candidate for the
Bicycle registration is also being saxophonists, vocalists and concerts Student Union in Club and Chorus, lsele will teach doctoral degree at Eastman.

handled by security all semester theory and serve as composer-in­During 1965-1966 she studiedfor a fee of 75 cents, the student's drummers. cooperation with the ACC. There 

residence at Notre Dame. organ with Michail Schneider in ~ecently commissioned works Cologne, Germany, under a mclude "Three Expressions for German government fellowship.
ND-SMC Theater plans season 
Orchestra," performed by the Her concert appearances in that Harrisburg, Pa., symphony or­country and America have been chestra, and "Prologue and enthusiastically received. She has Conjugation,"which received also studied with Russell Saun­
with Shakespearean history 
accolades from Belgian critics ders, David Craighead and Arthur mer's "The Man Who Came to after a European premiere. Poister. 
campus, will direct the final Dinner." He received a bachelor of music The glee club appointment hadproduction of the season John with honors degree at Oberlin the concurrance fo Dr. Phillip J.
Gay' s "The Beggar's Opera."' Sponsors of the annual Four major productions, This Restoration musical has as its productions are offering a special College, master of music and Faccenda, V.P. for Student 
four-play package ticket for $7.50. master of sacred music degrees at Affairs and Seids' appointment has
including Shakespearean history theme a rogue's gallery of lovable Individual tickets for each per­Southern Methodist Eastmen. the .concurrance of Rev.
and a lively 18th century musical, if not exactly honest,characters. ' formance will go on sale at the Isele has served as director of William Toohey, director ofwill be performed by the Notre Utilizing the popular songs and box offices during the week musicat the historic Salem Church Campus Ministry. 
Dame-Saint Mary's Cooperative madrigals of his 18th Century preceding each run.
Department of Speech and Drama England, Gay has written a ribald during the 1973-74 season. musica, romp that has entertained 
r'~"""'"'_______""____ __,
..._

Dr. Reginald Bain, acting audiences in several countries. 
director of the department, will The performances on April 26, 'l7, open the year when he directs May 2 through 4, will be in William Shakespeare's "Richard O'Laughlin Auditorium at 8:30 
III" in O'Laughlin Auditorium p.m. Syburg directed last season's October 9 through 13 at 8:30p.m. "After the Rain" and this sum-This is the story of the dramatic struggle for mastery of the 
.l'.:nglish throne. Bain served as managing director of the Summer Theater on the campuses and directrd the production of "The Fantasticks." 
Jean Anouilh 's "Thieves Car­

NOW SHOWING!! 
nival," a merry masquerade in­

2nd. WEEK 
volving the escapades of two young girls, three affectionate thieves, and a country bumpkin, will be 

SPECIAL ENGAGEMENT 
directed by Charles Ballinger December 4 through 8 at 8:30p.m. in Washington Hall. Previous directorial efforts of Ballinger mcluded last season's "The Lion in Winter" and the recent summer production of "The Effect of Gamma Rays on Man-in-the-Moon 

.ilL
t 
\larigolds." The second half of the season

i• 
tpiiiis
opens with Harold Pinter's bizarre 
comedy, "The Homecoming," 


Umted 
planned for Washington Hall 

Artists 
March 26through 30. Bain, a Notret Dame undergraduate who 
Please bring 1.0. 
I 
received advanced degrees at the 
Pniversity of Minnesota, will 
direct this disturbing drama. 

open 6:45
Frederic Syburg, beginning his 

20th seasonas a director on the "Tan o"-7 :·00-9 :-1 5 
--· THE OBSERVER ~=· 
wants typists 
Afternoon and evening work Regular schedules Beginning salary $1.60 per hour 
Call HaAard Halle at 1175 or The Observer at 1715 
. ' . \ ' .~ . ' 
Tuesday, September 11, 1973 
the observer 
7 
t

Calvin named first wonm doctor at infirmary 
j 
j 

by michele tate The first woman doctor at . 'Ote­counseling. "The infirmary is Dr. Calvin is skeptical about the
Transferring to the University of

staff reporter re Dame sees definite advantages limited in scope to acute medical additional two years of graduate
Louisville and Indiana U. she 

Dr. Helen M. Calvin is writing for the woman's role in medicine. needs," she states. She also work now required of the young
graduated from the latter's 

some history, being the first points out that Notre Dame is a med student entering general female doctor to practice medicine Catholic instituiton and that it practice. She also doubts the 
j

at the University of Notre Dame. Observer lnsicaht would not be fair"to force the authority of those professors who Some male students might be University into an embarrassing judge the applicant seeking to surprised when they visit the in­position by offering such enter a medical school. firmary this year, but she has medical school in 1959. ,She believes that women have gynecological treatment as birth "You don't know exactly under reported that, so far, no one has She has been a general prac­more compassion and feeling in control, etc." what kind of conditions the person belligerently walked out of her tionner in St. Joseph County since certain areas and stresses the need "We have tJ be conscious of was able to achieve those office since her arrival on July 10. 1960. One of her amin reasons for for "women being women." She others attitudes as our own, records," Dr. Calvin said. She is 
Dr. Calvin was born in exceaccepting the position tat admits, however, that her position because if we don't protect the conscious of the fact that many Henryville, Indiana and attended Notre Dame is the job's close at the infoirmary will not mean attitudes of others, then ours will applicants are turned away. Both Norton Memorial and Catherine promixity to her home, enabling increased medical ;attention for be under attack," Dr. Calvin says. the extra schooling and the strict Spaulding in Louisville for an her to function as both a mother of the feminine coed of Notre Dame She is very concerned about two medical standards have con­initial education in nun:ing. four children and a physician. in the form of gynecolocgical issues in the medical profession: tributed to a shortage of doctors, 
shortage of doctors and increased she said, especially at the local 
governmental regulation on township level. She disagrees with drugs. She reverently disagrees AMA's answer to this problem by with some of the restrictions on creating the nurse's assistant.
Shakespearean filrm to be shown 
Vitamin A, D and the germicidal Having seen both sides of the hexachlorophene. An individual medical profession, as a nurse and should know "right from wrong." as a physician, she sees the she says, and that these controls limitations of the nurse, who by Tom Russo are .attacks on our freedom of doesn't have a broad enough basis 
Staff Reporter 
choice in medicine. "The ·of knowledge. There should be a hypocrisy is that the drug which medical school associated with An outstanding program of eight causes more disease is sold on all every major university in the 
classic Shakespearean films will the college campuses ;alcohol." 
state, she concluded.

be offered by the College of Arts and Letters this fall, beginning with A Midsummer Night's Dream on September 24. 
Dr. Paul Rathburn, organizer of 
l

the project, firmly believes that "Shakespeare's plays were written 
to be performed and seen and listened to rather than con­templated in silent study." 
Therefore no admission will be charged for the series, which will be shown at 7 and 10 p.m. in the Engineering .Auditorium King Lear, on November 5, is scheduled for Washington Hall. 
"Whether judged in terms if individual performances, acting companies, or great directors, this Rathburn judges the collection "a superb film series." must be considered a superb film series," commented Rathburn. The directors are Peter Brook, Franco Zefferelli, Lawrence The films should provide en­Directed by .Peter Brook'. (Paul 
Olivier, Tony Richardson, Joseph tertainment as well as serve as Scofield, Cyril Cusack, Irene Mankiewicz, Peter Hall, and excellent supplements to English Worth)Roamn Polanski. Some premier literature courses.
individual performances are Nov. 19-Hamlet provided by Paul Scofield as Lear, Directed by Tony Richardson.
Sept. 24 -A Midsummer Night'sNicol Williamson as Hamlet, DreamDirected by Peter Hall. (Nicol Williamson, Marianne 
Lawrence Olivier as Othello and as · <Starring Diana Rigg, Judi Dench) Faithful)Henry V, Marianne Faithful as Oct. 1 -The Taming of the Shrew
Ophelia, Maggie Smith as Nov. 26 -Othello
Directed by Franco Zefferelli.

Desdemona, Marlon Brando as Directed by Lawrence Olivier.
<Starring Richard Burton and

Mark Anthony, Diana Riggin the Olivier and Maggie Smith) 
Eliazabeth Taylor.

Royal Shakespeare Company's A Midsummer Night's Dream, and Dec. 10 -Macbeth
Oct. 15 -Julius CaesarRichard Burton and Elizabeth Directed by Joseph MankiewiczTaylor in Zefferelli's famous The <Marlon Brando, John Gielgud,Tmaming of the Shrew. 

James)

"At present," said Rathburn, a member of the English Depart­Oct. 29 -Henry Vment, "we are corresponding with Directed by Lawrence Olivier.
Paramount Pictures concering the <Lawrence Olivier, Roberypossible release of Faranco Zef­Newton)ferelli's Romeo and Juliet." If so, Notre Dame will be the first Nov. 5 -King Lear -Washingtoncampus in the country to acquire 
Hall

such a release. 
HJmanistics Studies sponsers lecture series 
All iectures will begin at 8:00 p .n.. in the College's Little
The Humanistic Studies 
Program, now in its eighteenth Theatre. The public is invited to year at Saint Mary's has an­
attend. Admission is free. nounced a three-lecture series for the 1973-74 academic year. Performing ArtsIncluded are: 
scheduled 

October 17, 1973--Erich Heller, A program of opera, chamberNorthwestern University, "Shame music, ballet, and theatre com­and Shamelessness in the Age of prises the 1973-74 Performing ArtPornography." 
Series sponsored by Saint Mary's. ,The four-concert schedule in­
November 7, 1973--Vera \:ludes: Dunham, Wayne State University October 25-THE Boris Goldovsky "Alexander Solzhenitzyn." ' Opera Company's performance of 
Puccini's Tosca. April 3, 1974-8tanley ldzerda, December 5-chamber music 
president, College of Saint performed by the Julliard String Benedict, "Reflections on Our Quartet. 
Permanent Revolution." February 13--the Harkness Ballet Company. March 3 and 4--the New York City 
According to Dr. Bruno Center Repertory Theatre Com­Schlesinger, chairman of the pany.
program, the purpose of the lec­All performances will take place ture series is to "demonstrate the in O'Laughlin Auditorium. Ticketviatlity of the Western tradition information is available from theand to illustrate its significance for programming office, 284-4176.
rna~. in the past and present." 
Directed by Roman Polanski. 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED Roommate wanted for OC Apt. $45month +utilities. 840 N NO  1967 Van, Ford Super Econoline. Shag carpeting, naugahide bench, Luma done, good condition. Phone 232-4335.  Need money fast? Morrissey Loan Fund is now open . Borrow up to 150.00. Monday thru Friday 11:15 to 12:15.  
Ave or call  283-3061.  Basement of Lafortune Student  
Vivitar  98-P  close  ups  case,  Center.  
Girls  Group  Home  needs  filter $175.  Call evenings 1939.  
mature, reliable couples (preferably without children ( ( TO ACT AS SUBSTITUTE  1965 Chevrolet Sedan 6 cyl. stick. New paint. new tires.  If you have sex, you mmay have gonorrhea, syphilis, or both. If in doubt, check it out!  
HOUSEPARE:'NTS  ON  Dependable,  economical.  Call 2849781  or come  9th floor  
WEEKENDS.  Paid position.  $495.00  Call 233-1615 after 5:00  County Bldg.  Mon. thru Fri. 8  
Apply to Mrs. 233-9491.  Carol Wilken at  p.m. Cant  find  textbooks?  See  a.m. to 3p.m. Free-no ap­pointments-confidential-bring a friend too.  
Need to hire readers.  Pleease  Pandoras  Books  602  N.  St.  
caII  233-6437-Mark Maurer  Louisa!  South  Bend Ave.  We  LOST AND FOUND  
have  a  three-day  special  
Wanted: Home for Labrador pup. Owner will feed , clean up. Will pay. Call 283-1628.  serviceon new and used books. New and used books bought sold and traded.  Lost: Green clipboard folder­imprinted 'greenlife', contains white pads-Morton Arboretum  
Wanted: 3 or 5-speed bike. Call 8301 or see Brent at 20 Pangborn.  Need a car? See John Vol I '73 at Gates chevrolet in South Bend for great buys on new and used cars and trucks 288-1421.  QuarterI y -paper, lost Sept 1 between Morrissey Hall and Main gate. If found, please contact Professor Horsbrugh. Architecture-7774.  
Need fourth man tur N D Apts.  
232-8671  NOTICES  Found:  watch.  Call Mike at  
2151.  
Roommate needed NO Apts. 832 N 0 Ave. Apt. 2A Call ?13­1302  Will person who walked toft with Olympia box marked with name 'Montenegro' at storage  RIDES  WANTED  
auction please call Jim at 1021.  Ride needed  to  DETROI1  or  
Needed: 4 general admissions tix to any home game except  Reward offered tor return of its contents , no questions asked  GROSSE POINTE this Friday. Please call Chris at 6586.  
Air Force.  Call John 282-1568.  
ARTISTIC  STUDENTS:  $25  FOR RENT  
FOR SALE  prize tor best sketch.  Inquire  
Custom  hand  made  rustic  at Nickies  1or 3room apt. 10min. drive to ND. Phone 288-9533.  
furniture.  Prices  low- no  Will  do  typing.  Themes,  
middle man. Also waterbeds. Call for appointment. 234-4654.  manuscripts, 233-6909..  letters.  Call:  6 bedroom house completely furnished  house, close to  
NO.  Call 234-9364.  
Refrigerator, girls bike and ice  Need  someone willing  to ex­ 
skates,  portable  radio,  and  change  rooms.  Call  Matt  
sony TV. Excellent condition. Call 6426.  McKool, Rm 7921.  239 Lyons Hall,  


8 the observer Tuesday, September 11, 1973 
No.-:..t.:..:..=....re...:::...:.:...D--a-me backs promise speedexperience. versatility 

by Gregg Bangs 

Per'Japs the swiftest, most versatile offensive backfield assembled here in recent years will open the season against North­western come September 22. 
With only three lettermen being lost to graduation, the nucleus of the offensive backfield returns making assistant coach Tom Pagna feel pretty good. "Besides ha·viilg a valuabl~ year of ex­perience behind then, there is also more speed in the backfield this year." aLcordiu15 to Pagna, who has been at Notre Dame since 1964 when he made the switch from :'llorthwestern with head coach Ara Parseghian. 
Looking at the personnel who will be primarily responsible for putting the Fighting Irish's points on the board, Pagna mentioned that all of the starting berths are set. although there is still com­petition for the second team spots. 
After being relegated to the second team briefly during spring sessions junior quarterback, Tom Clements (6 -0, 189) has now regained his starting role from senior Cliff Brown (6 -0, 205). Coach Pagna thinks both Clements and Brown have looked good, but noted that Clements has been the more consistent of the two. 
Clements is primarily a roll-out quarterback who rushf'd for 341 vards and four touchaowns last season, whilecompleting 83 passes out of 1~2 attempts, good for 1.163 
yards and eight fouch downs. 
Besides being the number two quarterback, Brown also handles th·~ kickoff dutie!> with placekicker Bob Thomas. Cliff had 
an exceptional spring, improvmg on everything from his passing to his blocking. In the pt ocess, he pushed Clements to the limit in the competition for the starting quarterback berth. Junior Frank Allocco (6-1, 178) and sophomore Rick Slager (5-11, 185) are engaged in a battle for the third QB slot. Both have been directing the second team offense in scrim­mages this fall. 
Pagna had nothing but ~_>ra~se 
for starting full back Jumor 
Wa ne Bullock (6-1, 225). 
·•wio.yne is six pounds lighter 
than !ast year and seems •o be 
stronger, too. He'll have mo~e 
time in which to produce thts 
and thus far he'~ b~n
year, looking better all t~e time. Bullock like Brown, had a very good spring and give.s partial credit to graduated semors Andy Huff and John Ciezkowski, who Bullock says, gave him ir. valuable pointers. 
The Irish Eye 
=======~===:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=::~~:;:::::::::::::::::::::::=====:::=:=:=:=::::::::::::The Irish GtJmd. 
To the casual observer, yesterday's varsity football practice might have seemed a strictly routine affair. 
Boh Thomas, taking his time and allowing for even the slightest swirls ofwind was booting routine 50-yard field goals. Tom Clements, enjoying the luxury of a skeleton passing·drill-there were no defensive linemen, just receivers and defensive backs-was firing routinely accurate sideline passes. And Pete Demmerle, the slender split end, was making routinely acrobatic receptions. 
But Monday's practice, despite its run-of-the-mill appearance, was f<.r 
from routine. Something was distinctly out of place. And that something was Frank Pomarico. In the midst of the bobbing and weaving helmets, the wobbly punts and 
the bellowing coaches, Pomarico sat alone on a golf cart, his entire right leg encased in a plaster cast. 
The cast was the result of a ripped ankle ligament, suffered in Notre Dame's September 1 scrimmage, and it will likely keep the senior guard, a consensus pre-season All-American, sidelined for at least the fist third of ND's regular season. 
To say that Pomarico's injury was a cruel break would be more than bad humor. It would be the grim truth. For the 6-1, 250 pound New Yorker didn't miss a single game during his sophomore and junior seasons, and seemed to be poised, this fall, for the best campaign of his career. 
Now, after colliding with the same ill fortune that sideline? Steve Niehaus in the middle of a stellar freshman season, Frank Pomar1co may have to settle for something less than the best ten-or perhaps 11 games of his collegiate career. He may have to settle for the best seven--or perhaps eight. 
"At first," he remembered, "it felt like my ankle was broken. But I found I could wiggle my toes and then I was able to walk off the field by myseli, so I thought that maybe it was just a sprain. But it was a little more than that. 
"The doctors say I'll probably be ready to again six weeks from the date of the accident---and that should be sometime in mid-October: Michigan State, or maybe Rice, the next week. 
"Right now, it's just aquestionof me getting itchy--especially after that scrimmage last Saturday. You know the offense didn't do too well then, and I'd like to feel that maybe I could have helped in some way--great or small." 
Pomarico may not be helping now the way he's helped the Irish offense the past two seasons. He may not be pass blocking or kicking out to lead sweeps, but his mark is still there--although it's being made these days with a lot more subtlety than usual. 
It's been made, for instance, on Dan Morrin, Pomarico'sreplacementat the starting guard slot. Thetwo, since the first of September, have often conferred on blocking patterns and techniques, and Morrin, now, is virtually as assignment-competent as his predecessor. 
"It's tough for me to feel that I'm helping out now," admitted Pomarico ·'Sometimes I'll make a comment here and there to try to help a guy out, but I'm kind of limited as to what I can do, as to how I can help out. 
"Now ali I'm trying to do is be as ready as I can." 

Pomarico, when he speaks of being ready, is looking ahead to the middle portion of October--to Rice, or even Michigan State--and to that Saturday afternoon when he'll be able to reclaim his place in Notre Dame's offensive line. But until then, NO's offensive captain wll have to be content with sitting on his golf cart and wathing his teammates prepare for their September 22nd opener. 
And that will be, perhaps, the toughest challenge faced by Pomarico during his three-plus years at Notre Dame. But the big guy from Ho­ward Beach has successfully negotiated the other challenges he's faced since coming to South Bend, and he's already well on the way to subduing this one. 
"It gets to me," he said, "when I see the offense not doing well and when I see some of the guys getting yelled at--well, it really gets to me. It eats away at you, you know, and just standing there and watching, you realize just how much you do enjoy playing." And if Frank Pomarico has enjoyed playing in the past, the chances are 
· ' ·~ood that he'll enjoy it just that much more in four or five weeks. 
Backing up Bullock is sophomore Russ Kornman (6-0, 205), who could see double-duty at both the fullback and halfback positions. He credits his rapid improvement to Coach Pagna, whom he thinks is able to "smell" out a mistake and then pinpoint who made it. Pagna also happens to think a lot of Kornman, calling him " a good, solid player who will be seeing action this year." 
At one half back is 6-1, 200 pound sophomore Art Best. Best exiJioded ;n varsity competition last year with his first play from scrimmage resulting in a 56 yard touchdown run. "Art has gained experience . and gotten stronger than last year," adds Pagna, who thinks Best has developed into an ex­cellent "bread and butter" ·,·unner. 
"He had such a good year as a freshman that he needs new challenges to keep him going.·· Best will be seeing plenty of action this year, and he will hopefully overcome any new challenges that might await him. 
At the halfback position are senior Gary Diminick (5-9, 176) and junior Eric Penick (6-1, 195). Diminick is the smallest man in the backfield, but this didn't stop him from picking up 377 yards for a 
5.31 average a year ago. He was also the third leading receiver for the Irish, grabbing in 14 passes for 143 yards. The multi-talented Diminick also returns kicks for the Irish; last year he broke one for 85 yards and a touchdown against Navy. 
In 1972, Penick gained 7Tl yards, <good for a 5.9 average) more than any Irish back had l{ained in a single campaign since 1955. 
With experience under his belt, 
even more can be expected from 
this intense, burly, speedster. 
Backing up these two are a wealth of good athletes. Ron Goodman (5 -11, 192) is a"good, multi-faceted athlete" according to Pagna. "He is both an excellent runner and pass receiver." 
AI Samuel (6-1. 178) a converted quarterback has developed into a fine backup halfback while Pagna sees Tom Bake (5 -10, 190) as a "good, running back who plays all parts of the game well." All three are juniors and are expected to see action this fall. 
A little concern has been ex­pressed over the inconsistency with which the offense has per­formed in recent scrimmages. Coach Pagna attributes this to the numerous injuries sustained by tbe offensive line. Frank Pomari,t;.o, Dave Casper, and Steve Quehl have all been hurt. This has slowed the development of the offense as a whole. 
Pagna finds these injuries particulary bothersome, because he feels that "offense is getting so tough to play these days. Defense is mostlv reaction, it isn't that hard to get thiugs going. In fact, the defense is usually always ahead of the offense at this point in time. But offense is primarily action. It is very hard to become an of­fensive player nowadays; and when a player gets injured, it not only throws that player off but also the entire offensive unit." 
Barring any iniuries, To~ 
Pagna 's offensive backfie!d ~Ill run into Northwestern m JUst under two weeks. Hopefully, the "action'' that he speaks about will be in fine working ordel' · 
Ali victorious; split decision 
. 
INGLEWOOD, Ca_hf. <UPil Forme~ heavyweight boxing champiOn Muhammad Ali avenged an earlier defeat Mo~~ay night by scoring a _split deciSIOn over Ken Norton m a 12-round bout. . 
. N?rton ha~ defe~t~d Ah on a Sl~Ilar sph t deciSion at San D1ego last March 31. 

Senior halfback Gary Diminick is one of several speedy, shifty backs in ND's '73 offensive outlook. 

mamey Stone(d) 


Trying to sneak a fastball past Henry Aaron is like trying to sneak the sun past a rooster ... 

The sweetest swing in baseball belongs to Hank Aaron, and perhaps before this season becomes history, the greatest of all records, that of career home runs, will be his too. 
Some will argue that the greatest record is the one which has no chance of being broken. They point to Joe DiMaggio's 56-gamehittingstreak as that kind of mark. I agree, that record will never be broken, not during this era of baseball or any to follow it. Yet, I don't think that this record is the greatest. 
Still more people will argue thatBabeRuth was the greatest player in the history of baseball, and that Hank Aaron will never approach the Babe's greatness. This is where the lunacy surrounding Aaron's chase is all founded. 
How many times have you heard this summer that Ruth had 2000 less at-bats than Aaron? What arethesepeople trying to do, put an asterisk by Aaron's mark like they did when Roger Maris hit 61 nomeruns in 162 games'? Ridiculous. 
Let's look at some of the advantages Ruth had over Aaron. During the Babe's career , therewereno night games. This fact was well-made by CurtGowdy and Tony Kubek during Saturday's nationally televised contest. "You can see the ball so much better during the daytime," Kubek said. 
Another advantage the Bambino had over Hank was the short fence at Yankee Stadium. The lefthanded Ruth could easily reach the 296-foot rightfield porch with what, in Aaron's day, would be a routine fly to the outfield. 
Today. major league fields an. uniform down the lines. All major league fields built since 1960 have to have fences in both leftand right with distances of 330 feet. 
Another factor which helped build up Babe's 714 home runs was that he never had to face the slider, a pitch Henry has seen many times. The Babe, like Henry, did see a lot of spitters, but in his day, they were legal. 
Listing these advantages is not meant to diminish the greatness of Ruth. Think of it, if there was no Babe Ruth, baseball would not have gained the popularity it did during his time. The Babe made baseball what it is. He was the first of the home run hitters. 
There is another factor which Ruth had over Aaron that will not show up when the Hammer hits number 715 The Babe played during the Roar­ing 20's and the New York press made a national legend out of him. Hank Aaron has never played for a New York team. 
Athletes are quick to agree that New York is worth a lot of publicity, say nothing about the money that a player can derive for playing for the Yankees or the Mets. Look what it meant for Mickey Mantle, Joe DiMaggio and Willie Mays. 
So, how can you compare the likes of Babe Ruth and Henry Aaron? You can not. Each player has meant a lot to baseball during his own area. Ruth came along when the game was first growing and gave it the impetus to become the national pasttime. 
Henry Aaron exists in a different era of baseball, an era when the game 
has lost its popularity to football. Yet, Aaron still means a lot to the 
game.Howmany of you will go to a game to see a great pitcher? Nola~ 
Ryan might be an exception because of the possibility of seeing his thiro 
no-hitter of the season, something never before accomplished by any 
hurler. 
No, many of you go to a ballgame to see the hitters, more specifically 
the home run hitters like Reggie Jackson, Willie Stargell, and Henry 
Aaron. These three players, along with the other home run hitters, 
generate the instant excitement which football has and which baseball 
sorely needs. · 
In the twilight of his career, Henry Aaron has emerged as the Babe 
Ruth of his day, just as exciting and talented as the Bambino was. For too 
long, Henry Aaron has remained hidden beneath players who we~e 
maybe less talented but who were better known because of the area m 
which they played. 
Itis time for all this rubbish about Aaron and Ruth to halt. When Aaron 
sets the new mark --hopefully later this month, it will become the 
greatest record of all-time. No one will ever again approach the 700 mark 
in home runs. 
In the opinion of this baseball fan, it is about time something be done to 
bring the fans back to baseball instead of turning them off with sue~ 
idiotic talk. Baseball will only have Henry Aaron a few more years, If 
that much. Itshould recognize his importance now, when ithas him. 
As this paper went to press, Henry Aaron, facing the San Franeico Giants, hit his 710th lifetime home run. He has 16 games left this season. < 




