
serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Monday, February S, 1973
Vol. VII, No. 73 
SMC tuition to be hiked: Regents 
Maria Gallagher St. Mary's Editor 
A fifty dollar per semester tuition hike, approval of a baccalaureate nursing program and pxtension of self-responsible hours to fn•shman were among the de:isions n•aehed 
this  weekend  by  Saint  Mary's  Board  of  
Hegents.  
Saint  Mary's  President  Dr.  Edwarl  L.  

llt>nr~·. felt the tuition increase is necessary and justified due to rising operating costs. 
"Saint Mary's hasn't raised tuition si· .ce 1!171. when it was increased one hundred dollars per semester,'' Henry explained. "Tiw incrPase is proportional to the cost of Jiving since then." 
Student Doard Representative Sue Welte Pxpressed concern that Saint Mary's College may be "pricing herself out of existence." Slw felt that the college should examine pn•sent resources and work on ways to better utilize them rather than depending on future tuition hikes. 
Welte did not. however believe that the nursing program is an unwarranted expense. 
"When it was first presented to the Plan­ning Committee I had my reservations," she said. "but the research done by Mr. Hof ! Assistant to the President) and Dr. Martucci ! Dir('etor of Counseling) present a persuasive argum(•nt." Welte voted for implementation of the program. 
IIPnry called the nursing program decision "a far reaching and significant step." Bt>ginning in September, 1973, the four-year program will later be expanded to serve RN's 

who would like to rPturn for their degree, and transfer students. Men may also apply for the program, although there are no plans to house them of campus. 
Self-responsible hours were (•xtended to freshmen for the spt·ond semester. pending parent permission. but the Board deferred a deci§.ion on hours for next ~·par's class until the May meeting. 
Wt>lte admitted being ,q "little surprised" that the Board ('X tended self-responsible hours for this st•mt>ster alone. 
"The report compiled and submitted by Kay Thomas and her task was as comprehensive as it could be." Welte said, "but the hoard felt that it still could not make a permanent policy change." 
The proposal will be reviewed again at the Board's May meeting, where Welte said, "We'll give it another try." 
Two faculty issues were brought lwfore the Board for review. A faculty wage policy was determined by the Board, but details \rill not he releas(~d until the faculty has been in­form£"d. Two faculty members were granted tenure. but names will be withheld until their notification. 
A new procedure for the selection of future H£"gents was agreed to. Plans to start Pnlarging the board for the fall of 1973 are under way, and nominations will soon be solicited from members of the Saint Mary's community and friends of the college. Students may also submit nominations. 
Former U.S. Senator Margaret Chase Smith was confirmed by the Board as this year's commencement speaker. Senatn!· Smith was chosen in by both faculty :i11<1 students in a vote taken last semestf'r :md has accepted the invitation. She-\\Ill also receive an honorary degree at the ccremony. 
The Corporate Board voted to extend SMC Student Body President privileg~s as student representative of the Board; of Regents. Welte replaces Jean Seyrn.our, who n•signed the SBP ol"fice earlier !.his year. 
Nothing was resolved in the proposed financial arrangements between the Holy Cross Order and the College. 
"That thing won't he settled for months," IIPnry believes. The issue concerns assets to be turned over to the College and under what conditions. The next meeting of the full Board will be in May. 
Decries 'perversions of the truth' 
Niemeyer links myth and order 
by Mary Janca Staff Reporter 
Modern education must stimulate a rethinking of basic concepts of classical political philosophy. stated Dr. Gerhart Ni<'meyer in his lecture "Society, 1\lyth and Order" last night in the 

Niemeyer: modern ideologies are perversions of the truth. 
(Staff photo by Mike Budd) 
Library Auditorium. 
Niemeyer. Professor Emeritus of Government at Notre Dame, l'xplained the connection between m~·th and social order and dl'seribed modern ideologies, or "pseudo-myths," as "per­versions" of the truth. 
Myth narrates history and tells how the deeds of the supernatural relate to man. stated Niemeyer. 
"First. men and women do not make their daily choices and assessments of situations on the basis of either critical analytical concepts, or pure reason but rather through what one might call 'see­ability.' images relating to a more ultimate reality.'' the Government professor said. 
·•one might call the vain non­analytical views of life, ana togies. Tn all probability, they are diluted residues of former myths," he l'xplained. 
Modern myths, Niemeyer contended, "claim attributes of divinity for some historical en­tity." This includes the creation of a master race. class, unique party, Peonomic system and govern­ml'ntal program. he addt>d. 
These myths have "historically produced not social order, but divisive ideological movements engaged in perpetual civil war." As a result of these movements, Niemeyer believes that an urgent nl'ed exists to distinguish between these "perverted ideologies," and mythical "see-abilities" which can produce order. 
The order and function of ancient m~·ths came from "three sources of obligation: religion, rational and natural law. and traditional customs and vested rights guiding concrete decisions.'' 
As long as no direct clash was Pxperienced between these l'lements. Christian society could l'xist. But Christianity. he said, has been attacked on all three sources of obligation. 
These sources of obligation "have been rejected and assailed by teachings that set up man as his own creator. savior, and inspirer; tolerate no divinity above man's will: and replace custom and common sense.. " Religion is cons('quently dismissed as an irrational personal preference. The result. Niemeyer continued, is man's inability to comprehend 
differences. and  withhold any  
permission.  
Niemeyer  outlined  five  

guidelines for "the work of restoration of the educational process." 
First. education must be alert to avoid communicating modern pseudo-myths. 
Sl'eond. "One should be distrustful of any tendency to produce myths at will." 
Third. knowledge of the true myths will affirm awareness of the ultimate reality. 
Fourth, Niemeyer advocated the teaching of classical Greek political philosophy, because. he Finally. the noted political 
contended, that is where the true theorist made a distinction bet­ideas of human nature and \\"Pen "the human condition." and society originated.. "human nature." 

Thomas .Jefferson, Ben F;ranklin and John Adams smg of the birth of;c!1 new nation in this seen~ from the film musical, "1776" currentlyshowmg at the Town and Country Theater. A review of the movie can be found on pages of 
today's Observer. 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
The SLC will hold a special open hearing session on black students at Notre Dame today from 4:15 to 6:00p.m. in Room 100, Center for Continuing Education. Several black student undergrads will discuss black student sociall;fe. Open discussion will follow the formal presen­tation. 
IIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIUIIIIIUIIIIUHIIUHIIIIIIIDIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
the observer Monday, February 5, 1973 

warld briefs 
(C) 1113New Yor~ Time• 
Saigon--An official spokesman said Sunday that the meeting in Saigon between the heads of the two peace-keeping commissions was "one of the most constructive steps that have been accomplished this week." The commissioners met earlier in the day. 
Saigon--The last American G.I.'s in Vietnam are moving out, most or them are heading back to "The World," as they call home. Two or three commercial jetliners leave Saigon each day with about 400 men, and as the tripts increase, there will be as many as six chartered flights a day. Nearly 3,000 men have left Vietnam so far, leaving about 
20.500 others who must depart by the end of the 60-day evacuation period under the cease-fire agreement. 
Beirut--King Hussein of Jordon, on the eve of a trip to see President Nixon. has ruled out any resumption of hostilities with Israel from his territory before a new attempt is made to reach a Middle East political settlement. Hussein told his nation in a televised address that he was going to Washington seeking to engage the Nixon Ad­ministration in an effort to reach "a peace based on justice, which g£'nerations after us can accept and live under." 
an campu• taday 
7:Q0.. 12:00--mardi gras, stepan center 
7: JQ..meeting, flying club, room 12, aerospace engineering buildingB:oo..basketball, nd vs. butler, ace 

at nd-•mc: 
ASAC, SBA, GSU meet 
Grad patietals discussed 
by Tom ·Bundy Staff Reporter 
A joint meeting of the Advanced Student Affairs Committee, Student Bar Association, Graduate Student Union. and Woman's Hights met Friday to discuss graduate student parietals and other related issues. 
At the request of ASAC Chair­man f<'r. Austin, the '!leeting 
Wessels: Instead of parietal hours, one might set up a system of quiet hours. 
(Staff photo by Mike Budd) 

parietal and co-habitation violations. In regards to parietals, no maximum penalty was suggested. but expulsion was ruled out unanimously. Expulsion from on-campus housing was suggested as th£' maximum sanction for co­habitation. and this motion passed unanimously with three ab­stl.'ntions. 
Barry Wessels. president of 
· (;su. summed up the general mood of the meeting concerning parietals. "Besides infringing upon the basic rights of persons over twl.'nty-one," he commented, "parietal hours as they now exist do not serve scholarship since anvQn<' can blast their stereo at an'y hour without penalty." Wessels concluded. "Instead of parietal hours. one might set up a system of quiet hours --an idea that has been successful at other universities." The meeting also aired an ap­lwals structure for violations of university regulations. The plan \\"as conceived by student mem­bers of ASAC. According to the 
The Observer is published daily durinq the college semester except vacations by the students of the L'niversity of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Sub· scriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester ( 14 per year) from The Ob· server, l1ox Q, Notre Dame, 1ndiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 



Save up to $3.00! Major label LP's! Top artists! 
:\-lany, many selection, in this special pur.:hase. Classics included! 
Hundreds of records! Come early fur best selection! 
Sale starts today! 
HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
Notre Dame, Indiana 


Get your favorites at Big Discounts! 
proposed format. the accused eould choose a private hearing h{'fore an unbiased faculty nwmher who would decide the case. An alternate course of action op{'n would be a public fact-finding 
(continued on page 3) 


Buses to O'Hare 
Leave 3/9 3:00pm from Circle 3/18 8:00 pm from
Return 
0 'Hare  
Tickets  on  sale  now  in  Travel  
Bureau  located  in  Badin  Hall  
All Sales Final  

WHAT'S 
YOUR GIRL BACK HOME 
·DOING TONIGHT? 
Long distance still is the next best thing to being 




@Indiana Bell 

Monday, February S, 1973 the observer 

Choir plans "serious and educational music" 
David Rust Staff Reporter 
Notre Dame has established this semester its first mixed concert cnmr "as a natural and immediate consequence of coeducation," said its director. Associate Professor of Music Fr. Patrick Maloney. 
The new musical group, known officially as the Notre Dame Concert Choir. is also a response to inquiries the music departnemt received requesting the formation of such a group. 
It was this prompting that resulted in distribution of questionnaires to the women's residence halls asking for a show of interest in a choir that would perform "serious and educational music." 
"The response was very positive to begin this semester," said Fr. Maloney. "We decided to go ahead. We · actively recruited during last semester's pre­registration among the women, sending a letter to thl)se ladies who had expressed an interestin such a group through our questionnaires, and we posted signs all over campus inviting anyone to audition for a mixed chorus." 
Director Maloney's present group claims 48 members from the .auditionees. ratioed· nearly ideally at 55 percent women to 45 percent men. and "including not a few faculty members." 
"M~mbership is open to anyone 
in the Notre Dame community," 
said Fr. Maloney, "and although 
we are not actively recruiting at 
the present time. anyone from either the Notre Dame or Saint Marv's communities, is ~!come to audition." 
Fr. Maloney's group is planning two concerts for this semester. It will perform in conjuction with the Elkhart Symphony. Elkhart Symphony Chorus and the IUSB Concert Chorus. Dvorak's Stabat Mater on April 29 at the New l\lemorial High School auditorium in Elkhart. 
On May 3, the choir will makeits first formal appearance on the Notre Dame campus, performing with the revived Notre Dame Symphonette a Bach and a l\lozart motet in Washington
Hall. 
"I'm very pleased with the results we've had in our first few practices." said Fr. Maloney-­
Russ liberals vvork underground 
by R. Thomas Thues Staff Reporter 
The new open-minded and humanistic movements in Russia were related to a Library Auditorium audience Thursday night. Febraury 1, by Dr. V. Stanly Vardys. who claimed that although united in cause. the Liberalization movement in Russia is only present in scattered underground organizations. 
This plea for freedom of speech 
and political thought is personified 
in underground publications such 
as the Chronicle of Current Events. 
Vardys noted the Chronicle, 
chief spokesman for Russian 
liberalization. calls the Russian 
people to an awareness of civil 
rights and ethnic autonomy. The 
Liberalists do not want to abolish 
the Socialist government. They 
simply want their ethnic Russian 
traditions to be preserved, Vardys 
said. 
Vardys, who has oeen called a 
falsifier of Soviet -polity by the 
Soviet government. statec further 
that the arrests and suppn,ssion of 
free political thou~ht have only 
increased undergn und demands 
for freedom of the press. 
Vardys noted the feelings of 
resentment in Russia by citing a 
joke about Kruschev. When 
Kruschev wanted to raise money 
by issuing stamps with his picture 
on them. the project failed 
terribly. It seems the people kept 
spitting on the wrong side of the 
stamps. 
Nationalism was outlined by 
Vardys in two governmental aims. 
First. the Soviet government is 
(continued from page 2) 
committee composed of students 
alone. This committee would 
decide guilt or innocence and also 
determine if the constitutional 
rights of the individual were ob­
served. If guilty, the matter would 
be passed on to a Sanction Com­
mittee to decide punishment. Both 
lines of procedure would be subject to review by Dr. Gordon, :VICe­president of Advanced Studies. From here. the matter would be 
concerntd with keeping an in­within the Soviet Government. In dustrial place for itself. Second, reply Vardys said, "No. The the Russian government desires to Soviet Government is stable as it retain its present state of stability is." He further added, "The 
and control. 
Soviets believe that ideological
The Democratic views of Dr. bridge building is wrong."Zhivago and tht: Chronicle are lhe 
In the way of summary, Dr. 
asserted. "The Democratic ticipation of improvement." 
movement. however, is by no means united," Vardys added. 
Observer ends
Besides the Exodus of the Jews from Russia little has been done to unite the Russian people to the circula·tion at cause of liberalization. 
Vardys commented that the diss?tisfaction in 90 percent of the St. Mary's todayRussian vouth was no more in­fluencial ·then the little felt in­Circulation of The Observer at fluence of Western opinion. Saint Mary's College will officially 
In conclusion, Dr. Vardys was end today according to .John asked if he saw any true Abowd. editor-in-chief. gravitation toward liberalization "When only 375 St. Mary's 
students paid the $2.00 subscription last Wednesday. I had no choice but to stop delivery. For 1.6 cents an issue it is financially impossible to circulate the newspaper to only those people who subscribe. This is the reason I said that 80 percent of the studenlts would have to pay the fee in order to continue current circulation· practices," Abowd added. 
<A complete explanation of the termination of St. Mary's cir­culation can be found on today's editorial page.) 

practices which! are held each Tuesday in 242 O'Shaughnessy at 
7:00 p.m.--"and I belive thE! group is happy with them too." 
Fr. Maloney stated very firmly that the new University music group was "not formed to be a threat to any existing music in­stitution on campus." 
"The choral picture is bound to become more complex at ND;" he explained, "and I believe it will come to include several other 
singing groups. We are not in­tended to be a direct competitor to the·ND Glee Club. It has always naa a kind of preeminence of position on the musical scene on campus. and it will probably continue to do so." 
The dual reasons for the existence of the chorus are, ac­cording to Fr. Maloney, the fact of coeducation and interest ex­pressed by students on campus for a group of this kind. 
"Let's Get Acquainted" Special 

Complete 
Beer-Wine-Champagne-Food
I 0 3 0 lx lew a y South Carry-Out Service
272·5540 
Open 'ti/IMidnight 
We also feature Daily Specials 
Visit our Dining Room Children are welcome
t---·-----........'*'-HHIUitmlttiMIIH~III\IINWIIIiiioiiiiiiioiiloo----....~.. 
~ Jumbo Burger and Schooner of C\\ ~ Old Milwaukee O~'flQ $1.00 d"Q­
with this couponC Lim iI. 1 per person Expires 3-1 . 7 3 ~$
l
UIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIUIIDIIIIWHUUIUWniUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIAII,_ --mlflllllll*IIIIW&&IMIUIIIMIII~I 
true views of the young, Vardys 
Vardys said that he has "no an-~------;;:::====::::;;;:=::;;;:;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;::;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;=;:;:----., 

An 

THE PAUL WINTER CONSORT 
Saturday Feb. 24 8pm. 
O'laughlin Auditorium. 
First ticket sale Tuesday at 
4 : 0 0 in t h e F i e s ta L o u n g e $2.5fj in advance, $3.00 at the door 




r-------------------------­
• Visit the Worlds of t 
Vardys: The Soviet Government is 
stable as it is. 
appealed directly to President Hesburgh. 
The participants at the meeting agreed that only those things that disturb the goals of the University deserve expulsion. A committee was formed to determine what violations fall into this catagory. 
In other business, the GSU an­nounced a ski trip to Swiss Valley on February 17, and discussed plans for a possible lecture series in the near future. 


SPECIAL WEEKEND ROOM RATES FOR NOTRE DAME PARENTS OR VISITORS 
$6~i~le occupancy $B!~le occupancy 
No No.tre Dame identificatiOll required. 
Effectrve any Fri., Sat. or Sun." thru June 15th, 
1973. D o e s n o t i ri c Iu d e 
weekend of May 18th 
HICKORY INN MOTEL 
50520 u.s. 31 North South Bend, Indiana 46637 (219) 272-7555 3 miles North of the Tollroad 
Cable T.V., Air Cond., Phones. Send this ad to your parents 
r-----------------------------~-­

THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
John Abowd Dan Thornton Editor-in-Chief Business Manager
NEWS: 283-1715 EDITORIALS: 283-8661 Don Ruane BUSINESS: 283-7471 Joe Butler Executive Editor Advertising Manager 
Monday, February 5, 1973 

fram the editar!s desk: 
r 


No Choice 
f  
r  
r  
~  It was not easy to make the decision to  
stop circulation at Saint Mary's. The  
r'  arguments in defense of this action are straightforward enough. Notre Dame  
undergraduates pay $2.00 per year for  
circulation of The Observer. It is  
simply not fair to provide the same  
service to St. Mary's students for free.  
Granted, there are some free sub­ 
scriptions--undergraduates who chose  
not to pay the voluntary fee can still pick  
up a copy. Graduate and law students do  
not pay any subscription fee and still pick  
up the paper at the same outlets as un­ 
dergraduate students. Nevertheless,  
over 95 percent of all Notre Dame un­ 
dergraduates do pay the subscription fee.  
Still, there is a real feeling of remorse  
at being forced to throw another wrench  
into the ever-widening gap between the  
two schools. I vividly remember the  
week of long hours spent in the SMC  
student government offices during the  
unmerger. I vividly remember the anger  
that a small group of dedicated women  
felt at being treated as second class  
citizens by two institutions.  
There can be no doubt that Notre Dame  
and Saint Mary's have not been farther  
apart in the last four years than they are  
now. But regardless of how one assesses  
the individual motives of the two in­ 
stitutions during the past year, it is  
perfectly clear that the students of both  
campuses are not and probably never  
daanesbury  

have been really separate communities. That's why it's so hard to understand the reluctance of Saint Mary's students to part with the Observer subscription fee. 
It would be easier to stomach outright resistance. If the people at SMC didn't read the paper or made constant com­plaints about its content, I could at least put the situation into the economic terms which my four years at Notre Dame have made familiar. But I have seen the papers disappear from the bundles at noon and I have weathered the constant ringing of the phone when the paper is Ia te off the press. 
It should at least be clear now that stopping delivery is not meant as a malicious act. I think we have taken every reasonable step to make payment of the fee easy and feasible. So when only 375 people out of 1300 pay the two dollars. 
its difficult to figure out why. For the last two and a half years (the period during which I am familiar with the financial history of the paper) we have not taken any action even though we never received fair compensation from SMC. 
I hope that some kind of recon­sideration will occur now that it is clear that we cannot and will not continue free service. 
John Abowd 
Paint af Drder 
Lost in Your 
Self Again? 
mik• baum 
Lost in your self again. 
Tangled. aren't you? 
I.ost in your self again 
Wake up. won't you? 
Lost in your self again 
FPel. won't you? 
Lost in your self again? 
WPII. 

llave you seen the stars tonight? 
What I'm looking for-have been and still am -is a way to lose my mind. Now don't misunderstand. I don't want to spend the rest of my ctays wandering haunted corridors of self, possessed with the beliefs of paranoia. schizophrenia or other psychosis. 
I have no burning desire to mitigate reality with some lysergic acid compound. some cannabinol derivative, some grain distilate. 
No. I just want to lose my mind. temporarily. Some days, after all, it's useful _ It writes term papers, does reading assignments, things like that. Some days it's friendly. Offers joy at the sight of almost anything-two people on a sidewalk, clouds against the sunset, a teapot on the range, a freshly sharpened pencil, chives (green against the white of sour creaml-all sorts of things. 
But sometimes I'd like to lose it. Sometimes it's malicious. Sometimes, it's self destructive. 
Not physically self destructive. It doesn't say, "Why not find a few ties and a high chandelier?", or "Wonder how many fl~ors up you have to be to be certain?", or "Sleeping pills are cheap, two-three dozen should do it" or, "There's the St. Joe. Why not jump?" 
No. not that. But it goes whirling, terribly, out of controL.. 
A tiredness. sort of. A spiritual tiredness. When nothing matters or no. that's not it, but when nothing, somehow, is cheerfuL Nothing, somehow. is hopeful. And everything is grey. Cold, and grey. 
It gets lonely. Now I have no right to be lonely, you see, for alia round are close friends, people I know and love, people I like to be with. like to talk to. People for whose sakes I would do many things. 
Nevertheless, I get lonely. It's not entirely logicaL 
Depression, they call it. Definitely a bad way to spend the evening. You can't accomplish anything useful, since algebra seems nwaningless under such conditions, philosophy hopeless, and you know if you write a letter home, the text will scare your mother. 
Or you pick up a guitar to try the panacea of music, but after three chords. it seems too loud to bear. And you can't go out and get drunk, because you've always thought that was a stupid solution, and now is no exception. 
And there you are. The only verse you can think of is one by Cat Stevens-"Just keep on pushing hard boy, try as you may, you're going to wind up where you started from." And the only witty one-liner you can think of is Vonnegut's "So it goes." And there you are. 
Times like that I wouldn't mind doing without. Times like that I'd like to avoid. Times like that I'd like to ... well, we shan't go into that. So what I'm looking for is a sure-fire, one dose, fast fast fast relief 
sort of cure. Perhaps long walks, watching the stars. But this is South Bend, and ... 
Perhaps baking cookies. Hmmm. Tom and Mike would be happy to see that. Yes! That's it! Go out and do something for someone else. Someone else who is perhaps tired and lonely too. Bake them cookies or. uhhh, ... buy them a drink, say, or tell them the story of the grassltopper named Irving. Compliment them. Buy them them yogurt. (depends on the person, of course.) 
Why, the possibilities are endless.  Say!  The whole evening looks  
brighter.  Hey, the stars are out!  
Feb.  2. 1973  

the observer
t;~arry trudeau 

1HHT!s COII/61$SS? 1?16110 
YOV HOW SIR. 1Hc IIJOf!J) 
THE IIOIJS£ IS Tfii1T /HEY 
/JNP 1/ic RESENT IOU!? 5£N.111e? UlCK 0~=' I~ MPPORT. 

Managing Editor: Joe A~! News Editor: Anthony Abowd St. Mary's Editor: Maria Gallagher Editorial Editor: Jerry Lutkus Features Editor: Rod Braye Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson Associate Editors: Bob Higgins, Ed Ellis Special Projects Editor: Dan Barrett 
Asst. Ad Manager: Patti Strobel Business Secretary: Ceil Popovich Subscriptions Manager: Art Ferranti Production Manager: Joe Wilkowski Circulation: Roger Burrell 
issue Staff 
Night Editor--Marlene Zloza 

Ass't. Night Editor--Chris Sullivan Layout--Kathy Kelly, AI Rutherford" Typists--Mary Romer, Bob Stftil'lmetz, Rob Barringer, (but not Steve Roper l Pictureman--J. Michael Phillips Hal Operator--Mike Goetz Sports Night Editor--Jim Donaldson 
Day· Editor: Tom Bornholdt' Visitors--Dan and Mike, Jacques Canah Phone Jip Redman Novice Goalie--Vic Dorr Copy Editors--Ed Ellis and Mike O'Hare Night controller--Dave Rust (thanx, Mike G.) 
It's been real, Rod! 
Editorials printed in The Observer reflect the opinion of the writer on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion' of the individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial comment_ 

---~--------------~----­
---------------------, 

Monday, February S, 1973 the observer 
5 

1776: two f's and it still passes 
ioseph abel/ 
!<'or some reason, there are quite a few 111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 IllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHI movies that seem to be unfilmable. Most of these arc adaptations from some other 1n6 
medium. like books or stage plays, and the William Daniels John. Adams translation onto celluloid somehow just Howard DaSilva Ben Fran~lin 
Thomas JeffersonKen Howard
doesn't make it. Hello Dolly was one of John Dickinson
Donald Madden these: so was The Lion In Winter; so was Blythe Danner Martha Jefferson 
John Cullum Edward Rutledge
SIa ugh terhouse-fi ve. 
Roy Poole Stephen Hopkins
But each of these have a different reason David Ford John Hancock for not making it in Hollwood: the first was Virginia Vestoff Abigail Adams 
Emory Bass James Wilson
too ambitious and miscast, the last was a 
Ron Holgate Richard Lee 
hook whose theme was one film could not William Hansen Caesar Rodney properly envision. The Lion i_n Winter on th_e Stephen Nathan 
Courier William Duell Andrew McNair
other hand. didn't make precisely because It was what it was: a stage play. Written for A Jack L. Warner Production; produced by Jack L. Warner; directed by Peter H. Hunt; screenplay by
the stage, it just couldn't quite hack it in the 
Peter Stone; based on the musical play, "1776" "rcal world" or Hollywood. And so it is with produced on the New York stage by Stuart Ostrow; director of photography, Harry Stradling, Jr.; music
the new blockbuster. 1776. 
and lyrics by Sherman Edwards; A Columbia Pictures
The basic problem is a question of what 
presentation. Running time: 240 minutes, 10-minute vou want ..realism or cntertainment.IOn­intermission. MPAA rating: G. Showing daily at the Town and Country Theatre, Mishawaka.
.stage, both 1776 and Lion are en­
..
tcrtainmcnt. with a bit of experience for the ""1111111111111111111111111 mnnllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllnmml 
Little Bir:l Screen 

audience. On the screen, realism takes over know what is going on. Other rushing ap­·art f•rranti by the the very nature of film: the ability to parent in thefilm can be seen in the ''He place things in the real world. The only Plays the Violin" scene where Mrs. Jef­
Every so often television manages to click investigating couples and nuclear device is problem here is that 1776 is not real; it is ferson rushes right down to the street toin its programing and come up with some activated. Tune in at nine to find out if it enternment first, experience next. That's greet Adams and Franklin, instead of slowlygreat viewing. This week is one of those goes off. 

the way it was written. mt>eting them in the shy manner she rare occasions. On Tuesday and Wednesday There is still more in the vien of great An illustration: 1776, as a stage play, otherwise portrays.
on the ABC made-for-TV films Richard films reruns. On CBS Thursday Burt Lan­depends on quite a few one ~liners and often Another misjudgement from DirectorBurton and Elizabeth Taylor make their caster. Lee Marvin, Robert Ryan, and subtle jokes. Franklin's sharp quips Peter Hunt is a misplacing of priorities. Thesecond exclusive television showing (the Woody Stode are The Professionals against definitely being the highlights. Onstage, courier. who in the stage play is a crucialfirst was a couple of years ago on "Here's had guy Jaek Palance (who played bad guy actors could snap off these lines with the figure to the action and also a figure ofLucy") in DIVORCE+his <Tues.) and .Jack Wilson in Shane) to get back bad girl easiness of a comedy. curious humor when he slowly drags his feet DIVORCE+her <Wed.). Set in Rome this Claudia Cardinale for rich guy Ralph through Congress to deliver Washington'sBut on screen, the realism gets in the way. 

film has Burton after seventeen years of lkllamy. This is a great action film that dispatches, is quickly glossed over in eachSubtlties are lost in the seriousness of thewedded bliss fooling around with Carrie Nye takes place in the early 1900's in Mexico. 

actors. a seriousness required to make the of his appearances. And his one singing\Mrs .Dick Cavett). Do not expect a happy On Friday on CBS also, John Wayne teams scene seems to come out of thin air! At the
action seem reaL
Pnding. After it is shown here, the film will up with Rock Hudson in a rerun of The same time, Hunt conducts a long, drawn out The same thing happened in Lion.

he edited together and shown in theaters Undefeated to defeat Indians and banditos exit scene for Delaware's Ceasar Rodney, aGoldman's play, entertaining

outside the U.S. The proceedings begin at south of the border. The film is typical a highly very minor part or"the action.
series of verbal battles and quips, was lostll::lO both nights. -Wayne. Both these CBS flicks air at nine. 
On the other hand, the handling of Johnin period costumes and sets. It hadOn the front. F. Zanuck's F.inally, the last film is a repeat of Visions
war Darryl become a period movie, and hence lost and Abigail's "correspondence" is superb.
gigantic spectacle of the Allied invasion of \\·hich first aired last semester and concerns Direction in the Congress scenes is also top­much of its appeal to a modern audience asNormandy, The Longest Day, will be recast Monte Markham as a clairvoyant after a a modern comedy. notch. as is the general lighting ef_fects next Sunday and Monday nights on ABC mad bomber. This time around it is retitled 


throughout the picture.
128 l. This star-studded film is a factual Visions of Death. It will be shown tomorrow But despite all the flaws, the story comes account of the events leading up to and on 22 and won't stand a chance against the through. The viewer is actually tense at theduring D-Day. It is the most expensive film tow block-busters against it. On the non­moment of the vote; he has really begun to to be produced in black and white (the movie specials side of this column, "You're wonder if the Declaration will be signed or rrason being that Zanuck felt that color a c;ood Man. Charlie Brown", the musical not. <For those who haven't heard, it was.) 

would detract from the horror and feeling of . based on Charles Schulz's "Peanuts" strip, And though the music occasjonally in­the davl. Hit the beaches at nine both will be telecast at 8:30 Friday on 16 and trudes. a few of the numbers are effective;unights.· "NBC Follies". a variety pilot for next trams:ated. most notably the rousingStill another ABC movie is worth the season. will be broadcasted Thursday at ten beginning, "Sit Down. John," the hiliariouswatching despite its being a rerun also. The on 16. 

"But Mr. Adams," the poignant "Momma Brotherhood airs tonight with a dark haired In Memoriam John Banner, who is best 
Look Sharp," and the devastating
and mustache-sporting Kirk Douglas known for his Sgt. Schultz on "Hogan's "Molasses to Rum." None of the principles playing a Mafia don who has escaped to llt>roes" even though he appeared in many seem to be lacking in the voice department, Sicily after killing his brother's father-in­films. died in Vienna last Sunday on his 63rd with William Daniels as John Adams andlaw. Alex Cord, who plays his brother, is birthday. 

Virginia Vestoff as his wife as standouts. 
sent to the old country to "make deader" Erratum In last week's trivia question I Mr. Douglas. Irene Papas and Susan gave the answer to the town in which The Strasberg alRo star in this pre-Godfather Music Man took place somewhat in­Martha (Blythe Danner) greets llick. A great movie, take to the mattresses correctly as Riverside when it was really her husband, Thomas Jefferson at nine. Hivercity. My explanation for this goof? (Ken Howard) after a six-month 
If gangsters are not your bag, NBC is Orficially, we had to find out if any one read separation in the musical film, eountering with Funeral in Berlin, a spy this column and judging by the large mail "1776." film starring Michael Caine as the reluctant response and many phone calls, we suc­
So naturally, the first reaction to 1776 is British agent Harry Palmer. In this sequel ceeded. You buy that? In that case, one of silliness. To see old Ben Franklin to The Ipcress File, Caine starts out trying unofficially, I blew it and humbly bite the prancing around the streets of Philadelphiato get a defector from Russia out (Oscar proverbial bullet. There was, however, a with Thomas Jefferson's wife on his arm is llomolka l but ends up beign the pawn in a minor typographical error. A movie will ludicrous. So is the dancing chorus of "But double-espionage plot. A top-rate spy film, now not "not" replace the defunct series of Mr. Adams" consisting of Fr~nklin, Robert this TV rerun ranks with the best in com­"Bonanza" and "The Bold One" in the Livingston · and Roger Sherman, in the plicated story lines and twists. Over the future. · stately stairways of Independence Hall. 
wall tonight at nine. Upcoming Movie Notes Hot Off the Wire: But when one looks closer, one sees that NBC is also trying to counter the Liz and Dustin Hoffman will co-star with Steve the silliness in not in the action, but in theDick flick Tuesday with a repeat of McQueen in Papillon. Burt Reynolds will setting. On a stage, these same actions are Firecreek with Ja·mes Stewart as a part­eo-star with Sarah Miles in The Man Who highly enertaining because they purport to 


time Sheriff in a small town having to Love Cat Dancing. Walter Matthau will Benjamin Franklin (Howard
be nothing nothing else. 
contend with a real bad lot of killers headed play a tough detective in The Laughing This is not to mean that the picture should DaSilva) dances with Martha by Henry Fonda at his sneering best. Inger Policeman. Paul Newman and Robert be written off completely. Though it start Jefferson (Blythe Danner) on a Stevens is on hand to lend a hand (and other Hedford will team up for the first time since out rather confused, it quickly becomes the park near Jefferson's Philadelphia 

things l to Fonda. This film is a cross bet­Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid to star apartment in "1776."
semi-dramatic, seme-suspenseful story wcen Shane and High Noon with a surprise in 'The Sting• thriller in which Robert Shaw presented on Broadway. It's a familiar The acting, though not sensational, is pnding. Despite its cliches, it's sheer en­will play a New York mobster and Eileen story: the signing of the Declaration of competent. as it.probably should be, since joyment for western fans. The showdown Brennan <the earthy waitress inThe Last Independence and the events that lead up to Daniels, Howard1Da Silva <Franklin), Ken begins tomorrow at eight. Picture Show) is also cast. Production for that signing. But there's a twist; the Howard <Jefferson), David Ford <John NBC comes up with another winner next all these movies is just beginning. 
principles in the signing are portrayed, not Hancock), Ronald Holgate <Richard Leel,Saturday with the excellent film adaption of Trivia Question <and this time it will be as the great historical figures history makes and Roy Poole <Stephen Hopkins) were all rightl Jim Reagan of Farley Hall donated\
Michael Crighton's best seller. The An­them out to be, but as human beings. the originators of their roles on Broadway.
dromeda Strain. This science fiction this question when he corrected me on last thoroughly the Daniels has a
Supposedly researched, Again. <who fantastic 
shocker ranks with 2001 in its inteellectual wrek's answer. What was the name of the 

story paints pictures like that of Jefferson resemblence to Bob Newhart> takes topand technological pa_raphenalia Arthur muskrat and the name of the gopher on the prefering to make love to his wife to writing honors in the film as the always-pushingHill (''Owen Marshall: Coun-selloratLaw") "Deputy Dawg" cartoon series? 
the Declaration. John Adams is seen as a Adams. 
hE'ads up an investiga'tive team of scientists very aggressive, "obnoxious and disliked" The film is a curious one. It tries to workwho have to determine the cause behind the man: Franklin as a man who knows that on both entertainment and realistic levels,

deaths of a whole town except for a baby and and pretty on both.
"the history books will clean it all up." fails badly But a sterno guzzeling old man. The exciting The pace of the film is up and down. The somehow it works on another level. Onceculmination of this gripping film comes to a beginning makes no pretensions but, launches the viewer can ignore or get used ,to the point when the germ corrodes the plastic Jaqdon u-eA lUil;)U!A pue right into the first number, a situation that flaws and inconsistencies, 1776 becomesinsulation in the underground five level lRJ}jSnW ilql A}jSnW :ZJnQ RJA!JJ. Ol Jili\\SU\1 can be /confusing to someone who doesn't quite enjoyable. At· the Town and Country. 

the observer Monday, February 5, 1973 

YAF guest criticizes Amendment 
grounds. First, he claimed that it He gave four examples of constitutional amendment to 
by Tom Bornholdt. 

was unnecessary that discrim­possible untoward effects of the overturn the recentSupreme Court 
Day Editor nation against women can and is passage of the equal rights decision allowing abortion in the being ended by use of the Four­amendment. First was that first three months of pregnancy.Frank Donatelli, a Duquesne law 
teenth Amendment's l'qual. women could be drafted, and
student. spoke against the passage protection clause. Secondly, he furthermore that they would noof the Equal Rights Ammendment 
said that the equal rights amend­longer be exempt from combat 
at the rirst meeting of the newly ment would be no short cut· to duty.activ<jted Notre Dame chapter of women's rights, since legislatures "Placing men and women
the Young Americans for 

would have to pass new legislation together in the field or·at sea could
1-'reedom. 

to put the amendment into effect. effect the efficiency of the units,"
Over three dozen people at­

Lastly, Donatelli felt that a case­theorized Donatelli. He added that 
tl•nded the meeting of Y AF, which 

by-case use of the Fourteenth while he conceived of cir­
has been inactive on campus since 

Amendment would avoid the cumstances when it would be
May 1971. Ed Navarro is acting 

confusion which he felt would necessary to draft women, the
t'hairman of the new group, an 

occur with the passage of the qual decision should be made by
organization of politically con­

Hights Amendment. congressional legislation and not
servative youth in the United 

"The proposed amendment is constitutional amendment.
States. 

not only dangerous, it is un­His second example was that of
Donatelli argued against the 

necessary,'' summarized rape, especially statuatory rape.
Equal Hights Amendment on three 

Gras 
Donatelli. Under the equla rights amend­ment, Donatelli claimed that rape laws must be changed so that they .would include with the same penalty, women having sexual intercourse with an underage 



Would-be Mardi 

Donatelli: The proposed equa I 
male. 

rights amendment is dangerous

thieves frustrated 

Alimony was Donatelli's third 
and unnecessary.
l'xample. Not only would the equal 
Tom Bornholdt behind Stepan Center by kicking in (Staff photo by Mike Budd)
rights amendment allow for cir­
the door's fiberglass and reaching

Day Editor cumstances when a wife would be
and pulling the crossbar, ac­

forced to support her ex-husband,
Would-be thieves broke into l'Ording to Oliva. Besides the 

an idea Donatelli felt might have 
SUMMER JOBS
Stepan Center Saturday night, but damage to the door, a few locks 

some merit, but the criteria in 
were frustrated in their search for were broken. No other damage 

alimony cases would have to be 
Guys & Gals needed for summer
money. This was revealed by Joe was done. 

l'xactly the same for both sexes. 
employment at National Parks,
Oliva. chairman of Mardi Gras. In order to prevent another in­

Donatelli's last example was that 
Private Camps, Dude Ranches
According to Oliva, all of Mardi cident in which frustrated thieves 

of welfare money for which men 
and Resorts throughout the na­
(;ras' bogus bills are kept at night mightdamage the booths, Security 

tion. Over 35,000 students aided
are ineligible. Under the proposed 
with Security. All "real" money is placed a guard in Stepan Center 

last year. For Free information on
amendment. this clearly would be
kept in the Student Union safe. throughout Saturday night. 

student assistance program send
unconstitutional.
There was nothing for the vandals Also on Saturday night, in an 

self-addressed STAMPED enve­
After Uonatelli's· speech,
to steal. unrelated incident, someone 

lope to Opportunity Research,
Navarro discussed possible action
The thieves entered Stepan kicked in a washroom stall while 

Dept. SJO. 55 Flathead Drive,
by the Y AF in an anti-abortion 
Kalispell, MT 59901,
Cl'nter throu.s;lh the northwest door Mardi "Gras was in progress. 

campaign, including work for a 
.... YOU MUST APPLY EARLY ..... 


Parrish to lecture on blacks, Blues 

PLACEMENT BUREAU 
tHTtRVI£WS rot. Wt.EIC Of rtiRUAJt.Y 12 

Intervl-• ere fnr ..nton end ll'l'td~.~o~te n~entt. Stsn-o~p .et\Multl trt In llo<llll '!07, Kiln BuUdln11, lntervl..., t~•• -u be Mltr:ted end 1111n•d for In poonon, HDun en 8:00 1,.,, to 5:00 r.•. uiC'h dey, t>U:I'fiC friday. 'M'!e Phr-nt H.lnul RlVott llltidlttontl lnror-tton ri!JIIItdlnJt llltervt~ end 
pror:edur••· 
P'EII. 12 potroll llllnk t Truet Co, Ali lli!AtndHliA. 
;~~~~~~!Tni)Z2ij~f'"'''__!!.M_olltJ~~· 
!.!!.!.tu!•~.!!!!· 
!IS in H.E. BS, HS In Ch,E, ~ola unhentty or Chtcuo ·Cud, School oCButine" 
All~ 
U.S. Tn•ury O.pt. • Internal k...,tmae S.rvtu,AI\ IiilA. 

FEft,t2/ll C.nenl Y.l..:trle Co, BRA ln A'ct., ftn., Hat., Llb, Arll, Kith, fnr 11n.~llclal HllnaR...nl PToJn• onl)', 
/Cancelhd) !feu York Stock Ellchlnlr, All IBA. 
StluffrrOI~t.c.!l..._~. 
r.s In Ch.l. Toledo Edlaon Co!p!ny. BS In I!. I[. 1nd H.E. Jr•vrlrn ln1ur•ner Co. 
Ail&\ 1nd 8&\, 

rt.ll. 14 Artn• Ltfr 411 C.u•ul~L.:..£~__1!!!. 
II. In !II;., Sct.,A.L.. II,A. Por opponunltlu In Sl\ltl', Trch.tn•r•ctlon, Chi,. Adlu•tlnll, llond ICI'p,, Undt>noorltl'fl, COMptroll.r•. Lttc:•tll>l'll: tndt1n1 prl­-rtly, but polltlon• lvllll•hl• nutMNid•, (Thh h ch•n~~:• rr.,. lnf,.r.~~tt<m prf'vl<tUI'I)" puhlll'hrd.) 
A•rlnn l'tDton C!?_r~. IS tn H,l!. •nd 11.!.1.0, KIIA wtch rtn. 
blck~~:round. 
~·!I Coreonnon ,.f rtort!!_ ~---!.!!!.· IIMinAcu.,l'lu.,l'tllt, 
llrunavtdo. Corroutton. IIIlA In Acct. 1nd Plitt, lUI tn H.!, l!!!.!ltonr Tin 6o llubh•r Co, • S•ln Pr'ot:r.., 
All BA1ndll&\, C1nrul tin 6o Rub"-r Co, iililH.!.. Ch.!., Chrm, RM. In Acct, 
llarvlrdltullnruScht>ol. j\achrlor'• drAu• lr<1111 ncop:nl&rd lnltltu­tlon In u.s. or •broad. 

P'tB. U "-rlnn Oil Co.!. rnd 11.-.eo Chr•tc1l1 t:orp. as tnc:h.r.. 
~~6WIIC'nl~. 
liS In C.l!. U, I1S In Hal,, Ch.!.. M,l': .. !.1. rtrrnonr tndul'trtrt RuhhPr P'rCHiucu, U In H.t. 1nd H.!.t,n, YIM In Ace!, 
rtn1tonr St'lrl Product• Co, Ill In H,l.lnd H.!.l,n, Ftrellt~>nr Ttrr 6 Ruht."r en, ~.-llild {,!, iiiA 1ii Met. rtnuonr Tiro t. Rubber Cn. -S•l•• l"r~ 
Aff M•nd IIIlA, 
CTE-AU'TOMAT1C f.!Pctrlr. iS ln I!. I, IMI ln Ac:n. HltiiiTIIII StPPI Corp, 
ll'l In r.h.r.., r..r.., l't.F.., H.F..t.o., ~t. lurt Sit""'" A~aoc:l•t•• ltw:. IS, I1S In l't,P..I.O, lnd En~r.Sct. 

Fl'!ll. 16 rtnt Nulonal !link nf ChLc•ao Hl'IAwlthFln.<lndAcct, h11Ckllround1. IrvlnHantiii~•..L~· 
"""· CO!I!JNiny.
!llortharn rr11U 

Ait liM. 
~~ ~· ~;~~~· ~~~. r.:r~~ £. 
W.1tlnBh11u•• Elactrlc Corp. liS In H,!,, M.!.l.tl,, M.E.If.O.. !.E. 
r:t.pl<>yor tnro...,.tton. Altarnatlv••· T..chtnp, 
Actton/Pr~~rr Corp•/VLUa, ,.d•r•l S•rvtc• 
'"""' 222, Ad..tnutratlon Jlda, 
2/1/71 

cooperation between the English writer. in the Studies in Short
Dr. Paul Parrish, Assistant 

departments of Saint Mary's Fiction Journal. Critique recently 
Professor of English at Indiana 

bring your best
College and Indiana University at accepted an article for publication 
University at South Bend, will 

South Bend. from Dr. Parrish. The topic is on
speak on "Black and the Blues: 

Dr. Parrish received his Ph. D. Elizabeth Bowen, twentieth cen­
Literature in Celebration", at 7:30 

from Hice University. He has been turv lietion writer.
p.m., Monday, February 5, 1973 in 



toBarnabyS
the Director of rirst-year English As with all the lectures in this
Carroll Hall. Madeleva Memorial. 

at I.U.S.B. since 1971. series. the public is cordially in­This lecture is part of the con­Dr. Parrish published an article \'ited to attend. with no admission I inuing series established in on Gascoigne, the Renaissance fee. Hefreshments will be served. 
SOC COMMISION'S VAI.ENTINE'S DAY PRESENT 
My Fair Lady 
SPECIAL! February 5-8 (8-12 PM) Pitcher Beer•..•.$1.00 
Feb. 14 7 &: 10 p.Dl. Eng. Aud. 
with this coupon! 

bringsthe besttogether 
713 E. Jefferson



FREE 


Monday, February 5, 1973 the observer 
7 
•

SMC founds four-year nursing program 

by Maria Gallagher St. Mary's Editor 
Saint Mary's Board of Regents voted Saturday unanimously to offer a four-year baccalaureate program in nursing, pending approval by the Indiana State Board of Nurses Registration and Nursi'lg I<:ducation on March 2, 1!17:!. 
l\kn may apply for the program, which will begin in the fall of 1973, although no plans to house them on t·ampus have been discussed. 
The nursing program was studied and recommended to Dr. Edward Henry. President. by the Collt•ge's Planning Process. The Planning Process consists of ('ollege constituencies par­Iicipating in planning at Saint l\lary's. 
llenrv. in turn. recommenced the program to the Board of Hegents. At the last meeting, wht•n the proposal was first presented to the Board, it was returned for further study, but this 
\Wekend met with the Board's full approval. 
l!enrv commented, "Saint 1\lat·y's · College is continuously ('Xploring ways to provide relevant educational programs for con­temporary young women. The new program in nursing is a response to I his rwed." 
•

IP 
urope. 

r------------------------------------~---~ 
STUDENT·RAILPASS 
The way to ••• Europawithoutfaalinglikea tourist. 
Student-Railpass is valid in Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Holland, Italy, Luxembourg, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland. 
Eurailpass, Box 90, Bohemia, New York 11716 
Please send me your free Student-Railpass folder order form. 0 
Or your free Eurailpass folder with railroad map. 0 
Name ____________ 
Street ___________ 
City_____ 
State, ______ Zip___________ _ 
192 
----------------------------------------~ 
So you plan to spend the Summer in Europe this year. Great. Two things are mandatory. A ticket to Europe. And a Student-Railpass. The first gets you over there, the second gives you unlimited Second Class rail travel for two months for a modest $135 in Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Holland, Italy, Luxembourg, Norway, Portugal, Spain. Sweden, and Switzerland! All you need to qualify is to be a full-time student up to 25 years of age, registered at a North American school, college or university. 
And the trains of Europe are a sensational way to travel. Over 100,000 miles of track links cities, towns and ports all over Europe. The trains are fast (some over 100 mph}, frequent, modern, clean, convenient 
The College hopes later to ex­pand the curriculum to open the program to RN's who wish to return for their dee;ree. Henry enthusiastically supports adult <>ducation possibilities, but not until counseling facilities tailored to their special needs can be developed. 
"In an age which is providing the greatest technological breakthrough in medicine," Henry continued. "there is an increasing urgency to educate for more creative. intelligent thinking. 
Advanced technology increases dehumanization. It is equally important to emphasize empathy toward one'£ fellow human beings, while simultaneously educating for more highly scientific and technical skills." 
Dr. Mary Martucci, presently SMC Dicrector of Counseling, will rl'sign that post to become Director 1.,i the Nursing Program. 
Martucci is a registered nurse with t•xperience in sociology and psychology. She has served as I lead Nurse and Clinical Instructor inNeurology and Neuropsychiatry. St. Francis General Hospital and Ps~chiatric Institute, Pittsburgh; was lhe coordinator of a Medical­Surgical Nursing Program, St-wkkely Valley Hospital, St-wickely. Pennsylvania; and was Co-Director of the Undergraduate Psvchiatric Trainng Program, Carlow College, Pittsburgh. In Bnchelor of Science degree, and 1968, whe developed the Student students will be eligible for Adviser Program at Saint Mary's licensure as a Registered Nurse 
Martucci holds an M.A. degree upon completion. Because in Clinical Nursing from Duquesne Bachelor of Science programs University. and a Ph.D degree in involve significant use of courses Counseling Psychology from the from more than one department, a University of Notre Dame. field of concentration is employed. 
Saint Mary's hopes to affiliate This includes the major stubject with several hospitals in the South and he related courses. Bt'nd area. St. Joseph's Hospital in w I 
South Bend will be the primary . contact. and arrangements have alrt'ady been confirmed with them. Other possibilities are Healthwyn, Oaklawn. St. Joseph's in 1\lishawka. and public health work, but no contractual agreements 
have been made with these yet, 
pending further study of their 
facilities. 
Henry said he did not yet know how much federal funding would be available to the program. 
"There has been no indication of 
what Nixon cutbacks will do to 
manpower training in the health 
fields." he stated. However, he 
added that the program has been 
proved financially feasible and 
could be financed by the College 
alone if_ necessary. 
Ht•cruiting for the nursing program will take effect im­mediately, and the College hopes for an enrollment of 75-80 students in the fall. 
The nursing major will receive a 

and very comfortable. They have to be. So you'll meet us on our trains. It really is the way to get to know Europeans in Europe. 
But there's one catch. You must buy your Student-Railpass in North America before you go. They're not on sale in Europe because they are meant strictly for visitors to Europe-hence the incredibly low price. Of course if you're loaded you can buy a regular Eurailpass meant for visitors of all ages. It gives you First C~ass travel if that's what you want. 
Either way if you're going to zip off to Europe, see a Travel Agent before you go, and in the meantime, rip off the coupon. It can't hurt and it'll get you a better time in Europe than you ever thought possible. 
omen s 
slates pai:r of speakers 
by Bill Sabin Staff Reporter 
The Women's Caucus announced plans last night at Lewis Han to bring two speakers, Rev. Peggy Way and Sr. Marjorie Tuite, to Notre Dame at an unspecified date in the near future. 
The two women are presently team-teaching at Bellarmine:, a .lt•suit Theological Seminar, in Chicago. Alana McGrattan said: "Thev have been involved in the \\'om!.•n 's movement for eight years. particularly with regard tr. the problem of women qntl_ rt'ligious institutions." 
Kitty Carroll reported that the off-campus housing issue is still unresolved, but not<td that only about ten to twenty women would like to move off-campus if they eould. 
Fr. Hesburgh's comments at the l<'lanner Pit last Thursday night on the problem of off-campus housing brought a reaction from the Caucus. Mary Lynn Broe said that Fr. Hesburgh's talk. which in­cluded his anti-abortion sen­timents nnd his reasons for not allowing women off-campus, 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 

Need two $5.50 Santana tickets. Col: 1992 
Wonted: A go.cart in any con­dition 232-0550 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost: glasses, round torttise shE~II frames. If you've found them please call 5166or 8661-I'm blind 
Lostt: Big Black and Tan Male shepard on cmapus-Answers tto Jody Ferocious if not retturn•~d soon Call Hank 272·9753 
Lost: N.D. miniature ring on St. Mary's Campus. of exttreMe personal value. Reward. C.;ll 4949 or 233.4398 
Lost: ladies gold watch with broken band. on Fri., l-19-73 and one gold hoop earing with design. 
Lost  Thurs.  l-18·73  afternoon  in  
vicinity of  South  dining  hall.  if  
found call 4873  

PERSONAL' 

9 days in Spain and Paris $279 plus lox and service Call Chris -291· 
1741 
Happy 14th, Valpo Vamp. I'd climb lgzuctigual (?) for you. Jeremiah Turn in your mug Gallagher! 
What did that sign say? 
m. 

Think about what yesterday was, and you'll know j. 
FOR RENT 

Rooms and kitchen. Near. $40 1110. 233-1329 
NOTICES 

Detroit Bus Signups for mid­semester, Easter. $12 round trip. 1721 
Interested in learning how to read ond study faster? Evelyn Wood Reading Dynamics will be starting classes shortly. Sign up before mini·lessons and save 30 per cent on the course. Call 3854 
The baccalaureate nursing program is open to qualified high school graduates. No provisions for transfer students acceptance have been made as vet. All can­didates for admission must meet the current Saint Mary's ad­m.issions requirements. Inquiries may be made through the Director of Admissipns. 


Caucus 
Need $20 to $150? Borrow from Morrissey Loan Fund. LaFortune basement. Monday thru Friday 11:15-12:15 
Comp Wayne; childrens coed summer camp N.E. Penn­~ylvania. 3 hrs. NYC & Phila: Counselors who like children with specialties in sports, water, arts, & science activities. Sign-up 
room  207,  Administration  Bldg.  
Write  633 Barnard  Ave.,  Wood·  
mere  N.Y. 11598  

Before you buy a diamond Learn oil the facts It may save you a qreat deal Call James 3118 
A better choice is Iife for the unborn child 
A BETTER CHOICE IS LIFE FOR THE UNBORN CHILD­CONTACT BIRTHRIGHT, INC. IN SOUTH BEND P.O. BOX 824 or call 289·1034 
N D students and faculty! Car Trouble? Complete car care done by expert machanics at 10 percent off parts and labor! (oil changes, tune ups. etc. J Call Rollin'Wheels's Sunoco 17955 State Road 23 272-9676 (across from Greenwood's shopping center.) 
Fun clothes made to order. New styles. reasonable prices. Call Kathy 234-4547 
Interested in working in Southern Michigan at a Boy Scout Camp? Summer position includes room, board, salary, and use of camp facilities. Call Steve 7401. P.S. No scout registration required. 
Jockson Hole Trip. $20 Dep: Mon, Tues. Wed. Cabinet office 2nd floor LaFortune. For info call 234· 7248 or 8253 
Electric Guitar (Harmony 2 pickups), amplifier; both for $50 3866 
Fender Jatzmaster guitar good condition and reasonable. Call 233·8343 
MUST SELL 10-SPD BIKE, EX­CELLENT COND, CALL 1791 

presented "the fetus as an un­derdog and women as an ad­dendum." 
Kitty Carroll also objerted to the talk because of what she thought were implications that the ad­ministration considers the purpose of women at Notre Dame is to improve the social life of Notre Dame men. But she did say: "Whnt about the poor boys off­campus?" and suggestPd that she be allowed to move off-c.;mpus for their social benefit, if social considerations are actually behind the decision. 
The women also discussed the problem of what they consider to be inadequate Health Services. They pointed out the recent case of a woman who could not obtain gynecological services within 48 hours as she had expected. Mary Lvnn Broe called for either a gttaranteed 48 hour referral ser­vice or a part-time gynecologist at Notre Dame. 
The Caucus also discussed improvements on the Women's Cl.'nter on the first floor of the Library. including plaris to stock it with literature, a news file and copies of the Constitution of the Women's Caucus. 


the observer Monday, February 5, 1973 


Irish devour five Musketeers,94-68 
by Vic Dorr onlv five and one-half minutes of lwld little for the Musketeers, --' 
~4 ..

tlw-first period. After that. a whose seasonal mark is now 3-13. ·.~\
...

N('arlv ten thousand basketball Musketeer drought and an Irish Irish coach Digger Phelps, who . ....
lans--mi>st of them Notre Dame spurt put things out of reach in a substituted freely during the last:-.upportl'rs--crowued into the hurrv. five minutes of the first half,i\thldic and Convocation Center Steve Penhorwood's follow shot returned his starters to the gameon Saturday afternoon to watch the l'Ut the Irish lead to 10-8 with 14:30 for the first eight minutes of thel•'ighting Irish pL•y the Musketeers IPft in the initial half, bat the sl'cond half. He watched the fir­of XaviPr Universit) _ Musketeers were unable to notch stliners run up a 71-39 spread andThose fans who expected a close ;mothl'r field goal until Jim Rippe thm began substituting again.
g;11m•. or Pven an exciting game, l'annPd a short jumper with 6:12 Xavier caoch Dick Campbell\\l'rt' disappointPd. Those who rl'ma ining until intermission. folio\\ Pd sui'. l nd thl· 1\\ o teamsPXPl'l'tPdan Irish romp were not. 
Notre Dame sandwiched 23 points traded scores for the rest of theFor tht• Irish. in winning their lwtwl'en those two Xavier tallies, gam<'.
Pighth game in seventeen starts. 
and l'ventually left the floor at "Sun•." said Phelps. "we'd seendid just that. Tlwy romped to a 94­halftiml' in possession of a 43-22 lht•m <Xavier> play before, but li!l ·dPt'ision over the visiting 
tlwy'vp got good pl'rsonnel. And

IPad.
1\lusk<'t<·<'rs, and piled up a 
wlwn \\"<'look at a team. we look at 

~tatistil'al Pdge nearly as im­Onlv the efforts of senior for­
their JWrsonnel. not their record.

pn•ssiv<' as the one on the ward (·onny Warren kept the game 
And don't forget. there's always

~l'ord)()ard. Fifteen Irish players from heing a total loss for the 
thl' incl'ntive for a visitingteam to 

~aw al'l ion during the game, and Musketeers. and it was Warren, 
l'onw in hl're and beat Notre

Thirloen of them scored before it mainly, who kept things close 
DamP. They can salvage a

!>efensive domination during the second half. The 6-6
wa~ m~r.-disappointing season that way."
and l'Ontrol Iff the both boards also sl'nior scored 14 of his game-high 
Xavil'r may have had the in­

lwlpPd stifiP the hapless visitors. 22 points during the second period. 
l'Pnlivt• factor in Saturday's game.

Xavi<'r IPd but twice during the and accounted for eight of Xavier's 
hut littll' l'lse worked in their favor,

ganw--at 2-0 and 4-2--and was able last 1:3 points. 
as lht• Irish equalled a '72-'73 

to hang dosP to the ND team for But beyond Warren. the game spasonal high for points scored in a singll' game <ND also scored !l.t against Dayton. l John Shumate's 21 points led all Irish scon•rs. buHiarvBrokaw t14) and 
<iarv Novak were Gar_v Novak sinks a jumper in Notre Dame's 94-68 victory over Xavier.
<12> in double figurl's, and Pl'te Crotty and Don whil'h included three assists and Irish have hl'en lacking depth at 
Silinski each chipped eight points. a two-for-three showing from the guard since mid-December. when 
Included in the scoring total field. drew l'omnwnt from Phelps sophomore Tom Varga was wPrl' the first points of the season aftl'r the game. sidl'lined for the season with an for five Irish reserves... Freshman "Wp're trying to get him as injury to his right knee. 


OBSERVER 
Hoger Anderson and Myron Shuck­much playing time as possible," "Tiwy played a triangle-two man. soph I<,rank Allocco, and said Digger. "and hope he'll be dl'fense_" t>xplained the Irish juniors Mike Townsend and Tom. :1lM to give Dwight Clay some rest l'oach. "and we looked to penetrate llansen. Allocco's performance, :1t that point guard position." The or at least to get a two-on-one on llw wl'ak side. We did a great job on tht> boards and on our rotation during tlw whole game. I just felt 
SPORTS 
ND icers split pair with North Dakota 
today that Wl' had to go after them. \\"p had to he aggressive. We didn't Irish coach "Lefty" Smith had probll'ms, with making the dif­goal caronwd in off Murphy's 
want to comt• out and play like we 
by Jim Donaldson 
did against Valparaiso and
word of praise for almost everyone ference. shoulder.
Sports Editor 
lkPaul." <The ND cagers had to
after Friday's game. "North Dakota played a fine Williams put in a Pat Conroy
Notn• Dame lost a bid for third m·<•rcomp lackadaisical openings
"There wasn't any one key gamP and proved that they're not rebound early in the second period place and its seventh stra~ght pl'rson tonight." Smith said. "It !l-:3 losers too often," Smith to up tht· Irish lead to 6-2 and, after in order to win both of those 
homl' ice victory Saturday mght a team Our remarked. ganws. Against DePaul. the Irish
was effort. defen­"They played a more Hoss again scored while Notre
when North Dakota eked out a 3-2 trailed 10-0 before coming back to
sl'men had their finest game of the l'Ontrolled type of game and did a Daml' had two men in the penalty
win to gain a split in the club's win 72-67. l
~·ear--Bill Nyrop and Steve Curry good job of backchecking." hox. Bumbacco notched his 25th
\'ight -point weekend series at the 
\\'Pre outstanding--and Mark Hangy center Jim Cahoon, third WCIIA goal <lops in the league> on A<T. Kronholm made the key saves in thl' WCHA scoring race behind a 20-foot wrist shot. Cagers meet Tlw Irish could have moved past whl'n we needed them. DeLorenzi Notre Dame's Eddie Bumbacco 
Schafer scored on a power play a
Wisconsin. which lost eight points rl'ally got up and moved. When he and Williams. got the Sioux off to a Butler tonite
lilllt• over two minutes into theat Michigan Tech. in the league usl's his speed like that. nobody good start in the first game of the final period and DeLorenzi com­by Lefty Ruschmannstandings with a sweep ~f North l'an catch him. And Williams was series. rifling a 30-foot slap shot by pll'll'd his hat trick and the scoring The I<,ighting Irish basketballDakota but. after blasting the lrl'nwndous tonight. both passing Kronholm only 13 seconds after the at 7::l8. shooting in Nyrop's il'am will attempt to climb back toSioux. !l-3, Friday night, Notre and in the corners." opening faceoff. 
rt>bound. thl' .SOO ll'vel tonight when it en­llaml' was unable to overcome a 3-··Going into the game. we were But the Irish weren't flustered. 
Again on Saturday night, it was ll'rtains downstate rival Butlero first Jll'riod deficit Saturday and \"Prv concerned because we didn't Paul Hl'gan tied the game at 3:39 llw Sioux who opened the scoring llniversity ACC.
wound up tiPd with Tech for fourth havl' .lohn Nohle (suspended and Williams put Notre Dame in at the Notre 
and. this time. the Irish couldn't Daml'. now 8-9 on the season. hasplacP. ht-caust ol a major penalty in­front with a power play goal at match North Dakota's early houncl'd back from its loss toTlw split ll'ft Notre Dame with a currt>d last week against Michigan li:SO. 
fin•powt•r. 
national champion UCLA witt.
t~-!1 WCIIA mark and 30 points. Statt>l," Smith continued. "But I North Dakota evened the score at After Cl•hoon intercepted a poor hack-lo-back
North Dakota. which had lost five was trPml'ndously impressed with t:un when Gary Ross' point shot victories over 
pass by Curry and took a shot Villanova and Xavier and will bet·onst•cutive four-point games prior the wav Hie Schafer filled in. He dPI"Iected off an Irish defenseman which Kronholm blocked, Larry S<'l'king to establish another ex­to Saturday night. is 11-10-1 and <•xcet>d(•d my expectations." past Kronholm while Notre Dradt•r swooped in on the rebound IPndl'd winning streak during thehas 27 points. All that Hube Bjorkman. North llamp's Curry and DeLorenzi were and flipped it over Kronholm at t·urn•nt four-game homestand.
Exploding for three goals in the Dakota's downcast coach, would in tht• penalty box. bst fivP minutes of Friday's first say was. "We're playing poor Tlwreafter. the Irish controlled 4:-18. For Buller. this year figured to 
Only hustling play by Curry, 
he a rl'building campaign,
pt•riod. tht• Irish assumed a 5-2 lead hockey. rea I poor hockey." the gamt•. Mark Steinborn put N~Top and Bumbacco prevented following I he loss of superstars;1ml hn•ezl'd homP. led by Ray Saturday night. Bjorkman was Notn• Dame in front for good at North Dakota from adding to its Billy Sheperd. all-time leadingI lPI .on•nzi. who scored his first ~omPwhat more talkative. IS:21i, sneaking a shot through a IPad midway through the period as Bulldog point-getter. and Oscar\oln• llamP hat Irick. and Ian "This game was desperate for nwzl' of players by Sioux goalie thl' Irish wt•re shorthanded for !·~vans. who led the squad last\\ illiams. who tallied twice. us." he said. "We made a lot of llave 1\lurphy. DeLorenzi then I:-12 while Schafer and Mike s<'ason with a 20.1 average. But theThl' Iirst period of Saturday's line changes, and they worked. We used his speed to use good ad­Tardani sat out penalties. 
But the Bulldogs have managed to climb toganw helongl'd to North dakota, just couldn't fathom where we \·antagl', zipping past the North Sioux wPren't to be denied and. at tlw top of the Indiana Collegiateho\\"1'\Pr. and. though the Irish \n•re at. and we tried everything in llakollr dl'fense for a pair of flashy 15:10. scored again. Jerry 1\lillt•r <'onference standings and theytough! ha("k gamt>ly, good back­llw world." goals late in the period. DeLorenzi gunning home a 40-foot slap shot. 
stand to pose more than a token' lwl'king :111d the ability to get to Smith prefered to credit North put in his first shot with one hand. 
And. at 19:41, Alan Hangslaben threat to the Irish.
Ill(' loosp 1•wk enabled the Sioux to Dakota's performance. rather while holding off a Sioux defender what proved to be
nettl'd the 
So far this season. George
l.1n on I• win. than his club's pass and with his other arm. and his second winning goal. tipping in a pass in Tlwofanis. the Butler coach. has 
front of the net. 
rl'lil'd on overall team balance,Tlw Irish outshot North Dakota. 
particularly on offense and under 17-!J. in the second period but only tlw boards. to offset the losses of 
got ont• goal for their efforts, that Slwplwrd. l<:\'ans and three other l'oming off Steinborn's stick at ll'ltPrmPn. lie has also bolstered 
li: 10. 
his scoring and rebounding games DeLorenzi brought the Irish \\·ith the addition of junior-college within one with his backhanded transfers Dave Cunningham (6-8) scon• at 13:47 of the third period and Bob Harris< 6-7). Forward­hut DPimore and the Sioux defense guard Dave Speckman<6-4l is up proved impenetrable the rest of the from the freshman squad, which \\·av. Notre Dame used six lw led with an average of 16.5 
sk<lters--Bumbacco, Williams, points per game. 
Noble. Hegan. Curry and Nyrop-­Top returnees include 6-7 juniorduring the last 70 seconds of the Daryl Mason. top reqounder in the game but only got off one good Indiana Collegiate Conference last 
shot. Ddmore thwarted a scoring \"Par. In addition Mason clicked hid by Hegan. protecting the i·or 11.8 points per game as a corner as the Irish center tried to sophomore. Kent Ehret, a 6-5 swl'ep around from behind the net st'nior forward. accounted for 11 and stuff the puck in. 
points per game last season and 
Notre Dame will be on the road 1\larty Monsarez. a 6-6 junior. has for its next four WCHA games, greatly improved as a scorer af_ter visiting Colorade College next last vear's 5.8 average. Returmng 
\H'l'kend and meeting Michigan guards from last years 6-20 
State in E:lst Lansing the following Bulldog squad include 6-2 senior ~~\ DeLorenzi scored Notre Dame's second goal in Saturday night's 3-2 loss to Nor_th Dakota (puck is black \\"!'l'k. Both series are worth four Clarence Crain and 5-10 senior blu.r near left goal post). The "Hawk" had the hat trick in Friday's 9-3 win over the Sroux. points. .John Hande. 





