On The Inside 
Cease-fire violated 
.•. page 3 
Physicist on UFO's 
... page 9 
Vol. VIII, No. 33 
---~-­

serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Thursday, October 25, 1973 

U.S. rejects offer to police cease-fire 
United Nations (UPI>--The United States Wednesday night rejected Egypt's request that U.S. and Soviet troops be sent to police the shaky cease-fire in the Middle East. The Soviets demanded that the United States curb Israel and that the U.N. invoke sanctions against Israel. 
"In the view of the United States," U.S. Ambassador 
John Scali told the U.M. Security Council "this is not a 
time in which to involve the great powe;s through the 
dispatch of their armed forces to be helpful in 
achieving peace." 
The White House hours earlier had rejected the idea of sending troops to oversee the truce. 
Scale spoke after Israeli Ambassador Yosef Tekoah attacked Soviet Ambassador Yakov Malik whom he ac~used of representing "the true face of a government whtch has made the aggression of Egypt and Syria possible." 
"We have maintained active and serious con­
sultations with the government of Israel to impress 
upon it the urgency of absolute adherence to the 
Security Council resolutions ordering a cease-fire " 
Scali said. "We will continue to make the~e 
representations as required." 
Scali said Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger 
negotiated "an understanding" on the Middle East 
with Soviet leaders in Moscow. 
"We have done our part to carry out this 
agreement," he said,' "Calmly and without attempting 
to extract propaganda. 
. "This cannot be done simply by snapping our 
fmgers." 
Shortly after 9:30 p.m., the Council agreed to 
Guin~a's request for an hour's recess to permit the 
nonaligned powers to confer on a possible resolution. 
Diplomatic sources said the measure contemplated 
would call for condemnation of Israel. 
Malik earlier demanded that the United States force 
Israel to curb its activities against Egypt and Syria, 
that t_he U.N. invoke strict sanctions against the 
Israelis and that U.N. members cut diplomatic 
relations with them. 
"No reasonable man will believe the impotence of 
the United States in this matter,'' Soviet Ambassador 
Yakov A. Malik told the U.N. Security Council. 
~gypt asked at the opening of the meeting that the 
Umted ~tates and the Soviet Union salvage the shakky 
cease-fire they arranged by sending troops to police 
the truce--something the United States immediately 
rejected. 
Egypt said its forces were still under attack on the 
Sinai front but Israel disputed the report saying: "The 
fighting has ended." 
For the first time since the fourth Middle East war 
broke ?ut Oct. 6, dema_nds were heard in the Security 
Council for condemanbon of Israel. It was first voiced 
by Ambassador Rahmatalla Abdulla of the Sudan. 
Soviet Ambassador Yakov A. Malik said he agreed. 
"In acting as cosponsor of the cease-fire resolution 
the United States assumed a great internationai 
responsibility and an obligation to guarantee the im­
plemen~ation of thes~ resolutions by Israel. We hope 
the Umted States will take a genuine step for the 
reestablishment of peace in the Middle East" Malik 
said. ' 
"The only possible way of directing he situation 
toward a peaceful settlement is that Israel must im­
mediately be compelled to respect the cease-fire and 
the United States is obliged to do its share in this. 
"Th_e Soviet delegation considers that the Security 
Cluncll should adopt appropriate strict sanctions 
against Israel,'' Malik said. " ... the time has come also 
to appeal to all members of the United Nations to sever 
diplomatic relations with Israel and any other ties 
because Israel is an aggressive state which is in­
corrigibly violating the decisions of the Securit 
Council, the General Assembly and the Unitea Nations 
as a whole." 
---, ' 
~-~ 

HPC studies alternative student punishments 
by Claude Devaney Staff Reporter 
Members of the Hall Presidents Council favor better alternatives for student discipline than those offered by Dean of Students John Macheca. 
Many hall presidents feel that violators of University regulations should be disciplined by being make to work at Logan Center or tutoring children in South Bend. 
Macheca believes a violator should have certain privileges such as attending athletic events removed. A student who abuses his privileges at the university puts himself in a position of losing those privileges. 
Responding to the idea of work at Logan Center and tutoring in South Bend, Lyons Hall President Bob Howl said, "It was definitely a better means of disciplining." He believed the present form of discipline such as the restriction of attending athletic events was not constructive. Howl said that it might build up a feeling of resentment in the student. 
Howl said a committee of hall presidents 
was being formed with Macheca to evaluate 
new alternatives. If privileges were going 
to be taken away, Howl felt that not all 
privileges should be taken. 
The discipline should "make the student 
be humbled a little bit" according to Howl. 
He felt work such as at Logan Center was 
one way, but he hoped other forms of work 
would also be found. 
Joe Cari, president of Fisher Hall said 
that he definitely agreed with the alter­native. forms of discipline. He said he respected Macheca and his intentions but felt there was a better way. ' 
Cari believes that, "If you want a guy to learn, you have to make him put out and g~ve." If a student was made to give of htmself to others, he would sit back and think about his actions. 
Steve Decoursey, President of Cavanaugh, agrees with the principle of the alternatives. He thought it would be very appropriate in some ways, but that it would not always be necessary for this kind of punishment. It would depend on the violat~on, _and if the work would be ap­propnate m some way to the violation. 
"The new alternatives would help the community as well as the individual " according to Laura Dodge, President ~f Badin Hall. 
By working with others who did not have the same privileges, not only those of the university but also in life, it would make a person realize how lucky they were. She felt that this would help the . individual more. It would be more constructive than the 
presentmeans of discipline. 
Dodge thought that Macheca was doing what he felt best, but she did not think it was very constructive. She pointed out that things like athletic events were an outlet for things such as student frustration. A restriction on events like this would cut off a means of releasing tensions. It would prevent a solution to such things as hall parties which are sometimes used as a means of leeting frustration out, according to Dodge. 

I 
~ 


Bob Howl, President of Lyon's H 11 d st 
Cavanaugh, discuss alternative :u~i=~men::e Decoursey, President of 

Physicist believes 
•

ID UFO's 
... see page 9 
-.-.~ .­
~ 



Th.ursday, Oc;tober 25,. 19131 
.. '\ ~ • •. "} ) ' :. , \ ~ d. ~ '
.th~ observer 

warld briefs 

.. SAN ANTONIO, Tex. UPI-Capt. Thomas J. Kloann, a former prisoner of war in North Vietanm, stood erect Tuesday while 1,500 basic trainees paraded in his honor at Lackland Air Force Base. Air Force doctors had once feared he might never walk again because of injuires siffered pon his capture. 
Maj. Gen. Robert W. Maloy, commander of the Air Force Military training center, pinned two Purple Hearts, the Distinguished Flying Cross and eight oak leaf clusters on the Chicago native's uniform. Klonann reported he received little medical treatment for a massive leg wound following his capture by the North Vietnamese last Dec. 20. However, he can now walk stiffly and is able to drive an automobile. 
CHICAGO UPI-8en. Charles H. Bercy, R-Ill., said Wdnesday the Whit House advisers who steered President Nixon to the brink of inpeachment proceedings should be fired. 
Those advisors "seriously miscalculated" the effect on public opinion of the dismissal of Watergate Prosecutor Archibald Cox and the resignation of Eliot Richardson as attorney general, Percy said. · The senator told a news conferecne Nixon's surprise decision to release the Watergate tapes "has been a wise one" and Has "lessened the pressure for im­peachment." 
LONDON UPI-Keith Richard of the Rolling Stones pop group pleaded guilty in court Wednesday to charges f possessing heroin and marimuana and illegally possessing a revolver, shotgun and munition. 
Richard, the groups 29 year-old lead guitarist, was fined a total of $525 and conditionally dscharged for 13 months. His firl friend, Anita Ballenberg, 31, who police said ws with Richard when drug squad detec­tives raided his Chelsea home last June, was given a year's conditional discharge for possessing a quantity of drugs. 

an campus taday 
9:30 a.m.--library talk, by ann lonie 
2:45 p.m.--library talk, by lynn eckels 

4 p.m.--seminar, x-ray photoelectron psectroscopy, conference room, radiation research bldg. 
6:30 p.m.--lecture, the new novel: an international approach, stapleton lounge 
7:30 p.m.--lecture, "women in the economy", carroll hall 8 p.m.--lecture, "crisis in israel", black cultural arts center, Iafortune 
8 and 10 p.m.--film, canned goods, engineering aud. 8 p.m.--lecture, mayor warren widener of berkeley, calif., library aud. 
8:30 p.m.--charismatic prayer meeting, holdy cross hall, nd 
9:30--pep rally, joe yonto, tom clements, greg collins, steve niehaus, tom parlse, old biology bldg. 
FOR GREAT BUYS TRY 
*MAC'S RECORD RACK~-­2925 Mishawaka Ave. 
next to River Park Theate·r 
* lp's *needles *special *record 
orders cleaning equipment
*tapes 

If we don't have it, we'll get it 
Just Arrived! New Who, Three Dog Night 
Scalpers enjoy heyday 
by Paul Colgan Staff Reporter 

If you want ND-USC tickets you will have t pay at least $25 a ticket. A survey of buyers and sellers showed that sellers are asking $35 and buyers said theyare paying $25. 
Twenty people were contacted Wednesday night in the survey gathered from phone numbers on signs in the Huddle. 
The prices of tickets for sale ranged from 25 to 40 dollars. One man offered 50 dollars a piece for tickets between the 30 yard lines. One student hoped to pay only 15 dollars a ticket. 
Student tickets were for sale more often than general admission tickets. Student tickets are given to students as a privilege by the university according to Donald Bouffard, ND ticket manager. Therefore, they are not for resale. Few students adhere to regulations prohibiting resale of their tickets, Bouffard pointed out. 
"Since the university gives it (the studetnt ticket) as a gift, we don't think the students should abuse the privilege." Bouffard said. "If they do, we just have to revoke the privilege." 
Bouffard aliso noted that it is against Indiana State Law to resale tickets above their face value. 
The ticket scalping appears to be isolated here at Notre Dame. Bill Cahill, president of the Chicago ND Alumni Club, said he hadn't heard of anyhigh prices being paid for tickets in the Chicago area. "I'm sure you could get ay least 15 to 20 bucks a ticket, but we just haven't heard anything." Cahill ex­plained. The TV coverage of the USC-ND game in Chicago seems to be the reason according to Cahill. 
The Southern California ticket office said their allotment of 5,000 tickets was so small that few people had extra tickets to sell. "I can't even get tickets for our trustees," the ticket manager said. The game will also be on TV on the 
The .Observer is published daily 
during the college semester except 
vacations by the students of the 
University of No~re Dame and St. 
Mary's College. Subscriptions 
may be purchased for S8 per 
semester ($14 per year) from The 
Observer Box Q, Notre Dame 
Indiana 46556. Second clas~ 
postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 

Superex Stereopbones. Feel what you bear. 
, ~ For Free Literature Write: Superex Electr.onics Corp., Dept. FD; 151 Ludlow St., Yonkers·, N.Y. 10705·. In Canada, Superior Electt:o!lies •• lrc,:~9~Jtreal , ,-. ·~ ~~ ·, 1 , ,· · ·, · • 
J I J ,' I ' , .J, i ' , f. }, ~ , ; I I I
0 
'The finest in Cantonese 


·Steaks 


Cuisine at 
·Chicken

Moderate Prices' 


Thursday, Oct. 25 and Friday, Oct. 25 8 and 10 pm ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM Admis ns1oo' 





Be there 
With Superex Stereophones, it's 
being there. Maybe better. Because you feel every pick on the guitar, and get to pick out your own seat. To sit right under 
the drums, simply turn up the bass, and adjust the volume to land in the row of your choice. 
The Superex PRO-B VI wi II carry you there. It has a woofer and tweeter iri each earcup, plus a full crossover network, so you don't miss a note. The sound is abso­lutely authentic. 
Comfortable 
Con-Form ear cush­ions let you be there lying down. A 15 foot coil cord lets you be there, dancing in the aisles. 
For $60.00, we'll give you the PRO-B VI ahd a two year guaran­tee. Intermissions, and refreshments are left up to you. 
west coast. 
Bouffard said he has had calls to his office with people offering $50 for a ticket. "I'm about ready to disconnect my phone because those calls interrupt business." 

One man told Bouffard "I bet if the Pope or the President called you would give him a ticket." Bouffard replied "The Pope yes, but the President, not now probably." 
4
4, 'f 1 .. 1 "' 1 0 0 • 1 1 • 1 1 o 1 1 l • ,a J •. I ~ I Jo I I • ,a •• -Jo f ' I I 0 "1 ° '" " ~ 


... ~ . . ' \ . ' ~ ., .... ' 

, ...... ,,.
!~~rstt.ly! oC~o~~r.' ~~:: t?!l (. '' 
. the 'ob'~eb/er 
New Mid East cease-fire violated 
The second Middle East direct negotiations with the "I hope we've come to the cease-fire in 24 hours broke 
Arab world for which it had end of the fighting in this fought four wars, and that if campaign," Israeli Defensedown for two hours Wednesday Minister Moshe Dayan said at
and Egyptian and Israeli tanks this came to pass, "this month of bloodshed and grief will the end of the 19-day-old war,
and warplanes battled at the southern end of the Suez Canal. become a turning point in the the most costly of the four 
history of the region." Israel has fought with thePeace was restored by nightfall war Arabs in the past 25 years.
but Egypt said it would demand He said that release of "What remains of the Egyptian
U.S.and Soviet troops fly to the prisoners is a necessary foun­
Mideast immediately to police dation of any cease-fire agree­army is not able to answer in 
ment and added Israel was war. Therefore, the cease-firethe truce. 
The White House said the concerned by a report on Cairo is not only formal but also 
cease-fire "appears to be Radio that no Israeli prisoners substantial," he said. taking hold", and Israel lifted would be returned until Israel But claims and counterclaims the nationwide blackout it had by each side emphasized the
withdraws from all Arab territory occupied during the

imposed when war broke out on fragile nature of the truc.e and 
1967 Six Day War.

Oct. 6. But Israeli leaders the difficulties of achieving a cautioned that the days ahead In a sidelight to the war, permanent peace. Diplomatic would determine whether there Arab newsmen in Beirut quarters in London said the 
will really be peace after four reported that Israeli artillery United States and Soviet Union shelled the Lebanese village of
wars since 1948. were so anxious to impose a In Washington it was dis­Rachaya al-Fukhar, four miles cease-fire they had not planned closed that President Nixon had inside Lebanon near Mount for the peace.
Hermon, Wednesday. Lebanon

been in touch with Soviet The Soviet airlift of war 
Communist Party General did not enter the war but Israel materiel to Egypt and Syria Secretary Leonid I. Brezhnev to has accused it of allowing was reported continuing, and 
discuss the Middle East. The Palestinian guerrillas to oper­U.S. officials in Washington White House said the United ate from Lebanon against said the United StRtes plans to States expressed willingness to Israeli border settlements. provide Israel with military cut down on the massive arms The Egyptian military com­weapons until the Israeli lift to Israel if Russia does the mand said Israeli armored government is satisfied it is same for the Arabs. forces broke the truce by adequately armed for its own . Egypt, which accused Israel attempting to storm Suez City defense. of breaking the truce Wednes­at south end of the canal but UPI Correspondent Thomas day with an assault on Suez that the attack hd been driven Cheatham reported from Tel City, called for another urgent back and eight Israeli Mirages Aviv that Israel plainly consid­
meeting of the United Nations were shot down. It said some of ered itself the victor in the 1973 Security Council, the second in the Mirages belonged to the air Middle East War and that it is two days, to demand that the force of a "foreign country" expected to insist on virtuallyUnited States and Russia take other than Israel but did not dictating the terms of any over machinery for seeing that elaborate. agreement to the Arabs. In the the cease-fire was permanent. The truce officially went into past Arab nations not only
Cairo Radio said President effect at 1 a.m. EDT-7 p.m. on refused to negotiate but refused 
Anwar Sadat asked Foreign the battlefields-under terms of even to recognize Israel. Minister Mohammed El-Zayyat a U.N. Security Council resolu­in New York to ask him to tion. This time the Council request the Security Council called for U.N. observers to meeting and to request U.S. police the truce and Tel Aviv and Soviet troops-a move that and Cairo reports said the would bring American and observers already were en Russian troops into the Middle route to both the Suez and East for the first time. Syrian fronts. 
The Radio said Sadat also Syria adhered to the truce for instructed El-Zayyat to ask the the. first time and that front council to meet in continuous was reported quiet. It tied session until "Israel observes acceptance of the truce with a the cease-fire." It said Sadat demand that Israel return the also sent messages to Nixon entire Golan Heights it cap­and to Brezhnev asking them to tured during the 1967 war, but send troops to the Middle East. in Tel Aviv officials disclosed 
In Tel Aviv, Israeli Foreign they had drawn up plans to Minister Abba Eban told a double the number of Jewish news conference that Israel had residents to 3,000 families on at last obtained the promise of the heights. 
Cheaper ski trips make better skiers. 

Vail $93°0 

You know the more you can ski the big slopes, the better you'll ski. So, for as low as $$99.80+ Continental gives you Vail, including 7 nights lodging, 6 days lifts and 10 square miles of slopes. It could cost you up to twice that much if you just take off for Vail and make your own arrangements. 
UPI Correspondent Joseph W. unsolved 25 years after Israeli 
Grigg, in Beirut, said all 

became an independent state. 
indications were that the 

In London UPI diplomatic
current truce looks to be little 

correspondent K. C. Thaler said 
more than an uneasy standstill 

that the hasty cease-fire guide­
in the actual shooting war with 

lines worked out by the United 
the Arab-Israeli differences still 

States al}d Russia be~an to 
WORK OVERSEAS All trades, skills and professions I Students and Graduates F
Mae emae1 
Higher pay, no taxes, travel to Australia, 
Europe, So. and Central America, Africa and So. 
East Asia. Write for our brochure: 
Worldwide Student Opportunities P.O. Box 1255 
1075 Camino Flores 

Thousand Oaks, Calif. 91360 
TUTORING PROGRAM 

TICKET EXCHANGE 
NO-NAVY GAME NOV. 3 
STUDENTS WHO WISH TO TURN IN TICKETS­GO TO THE SECOND FLOOR TICKET WINDOW OF ACC --TUES THRU THURS OCT. 30 -NOV. 1 9am-4pm 
GIVE A KID A CHANCE TO SEE THE IRISH BEAT THE MIDDES 



CILA CHRISTMAS CARDS 
Designed by merrilers of the Notre Dame Community and sold by CILA 
(Council fa the International Lay Apostolate} 
To save you additional money, we also have a wide 

SOLDON CANflUS next \\eek
selection of special, low cost air fares. We'll even take your skis free. Continental will fly you on comfortable wide-body 727s from Chicago and other midwest cities to 
*in the halls (ND&SMC)

Denver, Colorado Springs, or Albuquerque. And to Denver from Chicago, Continental offers memorable DC-10 service. 
*in Campus Ministry 

Let us save you enough money on your first skiing trip to pay for a big part of your second skiing trip. And so 
*in the post office 

on. Call your travel agent, our partner in getting things done for you, or call Continental. Or mail the coupon. 
*in the dining halls
+Per person,doubleoccupancy,plus air fare and tax. Add $17. Add S17.20durlng Dec. 15·22, Dec. 29·Jan. 5, Feb. 9. March 30. 

... 
CONTINENTAL AIRLINES 
PO Box 4187, North Hollywood, California 91607 Continental also offers ski values In Breckenridge, Aspen, CWinter Park, Taos, Steamboat and many other malor western ski areas. 

Sunday Night from l 0 to 12 fhe cards will
Send for free, complete brochure on Continental Ski Holidays. Name ____________________________________ 

be sold in Grace, and in Regina, leMons,
Address-------------------CitY---~----­

·and McCan~dless·.af· SMC~;J ·t~-·.-__ ._, · ·.:. ' . . t
,; J ~ • ,
State ~i Phone~-­


\ .............................. --.--.. "' ..... --... -. .. . . . . . .
~
: CONTINENTAt AIRLINES. 

., .... ·• ............. iO ......~ ... ~ It' .. ,. 
,. .......... ---... ., " ... " ................. "' .......... & ~ .. .. .. • • • ' • 
' " .. •... 't' • ·.' . ' " ·•• l ... , .. .;,~ ·: ....~ 1• ~..
.•. 
··~··.t.~~~ I~'' .,... 
/

th.e obs·erver--·---Thursday, actotier"2s, ·1913 I
4 < 
St. Mary's 

Board of Regents chosen 
Springfield, Ohio.

Dr. Edward L. Henry, president and editor, Dr. Pelikan is presently 
Sr. M. Campion Kuh, C.S.C., a

of Saint Mary's, has announced acting dean of the Yale Graduate
member of the history department 

that twelve persons have accepted School, New Haven, Connecticut.
at Holy Cross High School.,

invitations toserveon the College's Lee Schulman, vice president,
Riverside, New Jersey. She holds 

Board of Regents. The new National Broadcasting Cor­
her Ph. D. in European history and 

members, who attended their first poration. Schulman is also the
formerly was the academic dean of

Board meeting Saturday, October general manager of WMAQ-TV,
Cardinal Cushing College, Bosto111,

13, 1973, are: Chicago, Illinois. In addition, he is 
Massachusetts.

Sr. M. Theodora Abreu, C.S.C., president of the Board of Trustees
Sr. Mary Elizabeth Loughra111,

assistant administrator at Saint of Holy Cross Hospital, San Fer­
C.S.C., who is currently com­

Alphonsus Hospital, Boise, Idaho. nando, California, and is chairman 
pleting a Master's degree in

She is a member of the Board of of the National Awards Committee 
liturgical music at the Catholk

Trustees of Holy Cross Hospital, of the National Academy of
University -Of America,

Salt Lake City, Utah, and has Television Arts and Sciences.
Washington, D.C. She formerly

.served'. as president of the Utah Sr. Kathleen Anne Nelligan,
served as dean of freshmen at

State Nurses Association. C.S.C., superior general of the
Dunbarton College, Washington,

Sr. M. Rosaleen Dunleavy, Congregation of the Sisters of Holy
D.C.

C.S.C., Saint Mary's faculty Cross, Notre Dame, Indiana. Sr.
Elizabeth Nolan, Saint Mary's

member since 1958. Sr. Rosaleen Kathleen previously served as
graduate. Nolan is the assistant

received the College's Spec Unica regional superior of one of the
attorney general of Iowa, and is

award for the 1972-73 academic western regions of the Sisters of
the president of the Iowa City,

year. She holds a Ph. D. in Holy Cross.
Iowa, chapter of the Saint Mary's

microbiology, and was the Sr. M. Bertrand Sullivan, C.S.C., 
College Alumnae Association.

recipient of a National Science assistant to the superior general of
Dr.' Glenn Olsen, Ph. D.,

Foundation graduate fellowshiQ. the Congregation of the Sisters of
currently professor of History at

Mary Rita Hellmuth, Saint Holy Cross, Notre Dame, Indiana.
the University of Utah, Salt Lak1e

Mary's graduate. Hellmuth Mary Ellen Stumpf, Saint
City, Utah. Dr. Olsen has taught at

received the Cotter Cupt in 1964 for Mary's College student
Seattle University and Fordham

service to the College, and was also representative to the Board of
University, and was a Fulbright

presented the Distinguished Regents. Stumpf is president of
scholar.

Alumna Award in 1968. She is the senior class and is majoring in currently vice-J!resident--D J slav Pelikan Lutheran English and humanistic studies. secretary of Link-Hellmuth, INC., the:l~gi~':, A renow~ed author She is from Richmond, Virginia. 
Committee takes steps for impeachment possibility 
WASHINGTON <UPI>--The decision, but added: "It does not
On Tuesday, the House

House Judiciary Committee change the status of the im­
Democratic leadership, with the

leadership Wednesday took the peachment rjesolutions referred to
support of the GOP leadership,

first step toward in inquiry into the Judiciary Committee
decided to ask the Judiciary

possible impeachment of yesterday (Tuesday)".
committee to ~ake an inquiry into 

President. Nixon by granting The sponsors of the resolutions-­
the possibility of instituting im­

committee chairman Peter W. eight have been referred to the
peachment proceedings against

Rodino, <D-N .J.) subpoena committee--said they did not in­
President Nixon. The mosmove 

powers. tend to withdraw the resolutions
blunted several resolutions calling 

because the tapes were not the only 
for an immediate beginning <>f the

Rodino said he did not yet know ground for impeachment.
impeachment process.

if he would use the power in an Rodino also said that even after attempt subpoena President Nixon's reversal on the tape issue, 
House Speaker Carl Albert

Nixon's Watergate tapes. He said telegrams poured into his office 
meanwhile, said that nothing had

he would have to wait for calling for impeachment. An aide 
changed for the committee

"whatever facts we find and said that of about 1,000 telegrams,
despite Nixon's decision Tuesday

whatever comes to our attention." only one backed the President. 
to turn the tapes over for judicialreview.
Rodino called for a full com­
"# •JIJ ~-~-"'"'·~)I •• ~~ '• "~ ~. '• •.·.•,• •,••,v,·,•. •. •, ' 


featunng(in alphobetical ardor) JERRY IIUTUR THE CANNONBAll ADDERLEY QUINTET THE CHI UTES REVEREND JAMES CLEVELAND SAMMY DAVIS, JR. ROBERTA ~ HARVIN GAYE ISAAC HAYES THEJACKSON AVE REVEREND JESSE JACKSON QUINCY JONES GLADYS KNIGHT & THE PIPS THE RAMSEY LEWIS TRIO THE MAIN INGREDIENT CURTIS MAYRELD THE 01AYS THE STAPLE SINGEIIIS THE TEMPTATIONS NANCY WILSON BILL WITHERS 
ZULEHA And many more. ER<Uti.. ~l'roooced by MATT IIOBINSON 
~-•ij:iil§jh!Mriif@ii• •·:


Snow Recaps 
: WITH COUPON ! 
: FULL EI&IIE TUIE-UP : 
I • 
I
l '~r$2Q95l
Plus F.E.T. 
. . 
1 ANY 6 CYL. U. S. AUTO : : ADD $4 FOR 8 CYL. CARS. 1 I AIR COND. CARS $2 MORE.: : INCLUDES PLUGS, POINTS,, : CONDENSER, CHECK : 

Premium 4 Ply 
: ~~~~~(:ET~~!e~~~~~~~


Nylon 

·-.--.-.---.-------.--·-'( • 
••·p.t!if·!U'*ri.!IIQ•ij"' 
WITH COUPON
Snow Tires 

starts as low as $ FROITEIOa
ALI&IMEIT · "~
1695 
MOST ,
Plus F.E.T. 
AMERICAN • CARS ­
F78-14 Blackwa lis 
PARTS EXTRA 
JF NEEDED

20% off ,......................... 
• ·W,J1if.hf!¥3Uii#ii§i"' •' ~ 
WITH COUPON 

on all tail BRAKE RELINING 
EXCEPT DISC 
• BRAKES AND
pipes,exhaust 
~>:;;;;·


pipes and 
INCLUDES FULL INSPECTION I FLUID AND CLEAN.
mufflers 
Discount Tire Service 
50595 U.S. 3 I North 

$444
272-1023 

OPEN DAILY 'TILL 6, PLUS IISTIWTIOI SAT. 'TILL 4 
mittee meeting next Tuesday to begin the inquiry process. "They have been mandated to 

Shakespeare Film Series 
He said he sought the special make an inquiry and they have subpoena power from his eight said an inquiry are going to 
presents
subcommittee chairmen because make," Albert said. "I hope it is "each time there is an urgency to expeditious and I hope that we can issue subpoena, I don't want to lay to rest this issue one way or have to go to the committee." another." Current committee rules require a Democratic Leader Thomas P. vote on subpoenas as well as two O'Neill, in a floor speech, said he 

Sir Laurence Olivier
days notice before a committee was glad to hear of Nixon's meeting can be held. 
starring in 
BEADS 


HENRY V
HEADS 

"Best Shakespearean film ever made"
BEADS 
BEADS 

ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM 
Uhe WitWjammer 

MONDAY OCT. 29 
HAIR STYLING FOR DISCRIMINATING MEN 

No~.~~!~;~~.;.r~~~.-;;~~~~oJ~t;;~~-~~~-·. '~-~.-'/. /.'.'/.'!.'/.'/.'.'SSi:.•..4.RT.f.IZ.P.m.. 1Op,_~.
-.-.·:.·:·.:·...~.:·:.:.-~.: .. ~~·...-•.. 
1637 uncoln~iHf' .. Wesf..:"H' • • • ·, .. 2'~2':6~·;1;;1; · · ··­


Where is Knute Rockne buried? 
Knute Rockne is buried in Highland Cemetery on Portage Avenue here in South Bend. His grave is rather hard to find, since it is not all that large or well marked. Therefore, it might be wise to stop at the gate and ask for directions before wandering in to pay one's respects. 
Do you know who is going to be in charge of Graduation this coming May? I'm especially interested in the name or names of students involved inthe planning. 
Mr. Frank Foss, who can be found in the CCE, is the best man around to answer your questions concerning graduation. As to student names, there is only one that we know of presently, and ~e name is Marie Therese Devitt who is as of last word Graduation Chairman. She can be reached at 8075. 
Who heads up Arnold Air Society? 
The individual goes by the name of Bill O'Brienand can be reached at 1610 or found in room 146 Dillon. 
Volunteers of Dimes 
Thursday, October 25, 1973 

the observer 
•' Ill • • ; • ' f. c /• ~ ' I ; • J ' 

I ~;" . ' ·.. •, ·.' .. ' • ' : 
needed lor March lund-raising drive 
by Phyllis Moslercombat polio. When a cure was 
Staff Reporter 
This Saturday, October 27 and next Saturday, November 3, the St. Joseph County Chapter of the March of Dimes will be sponsoring a fund-raising drive on campus. Volunteers from the Notre Dame­St. Mary's community are urgently needed. 
The nature of the volunteer work is soliciting money around the stadium and campus. Anyone interested in volunteering should 
come  to  room  128  in  O­ 
Shaughnessy  at  10  a.m.  on  
Saturday morning  to  receive a  

canister for the solicitation. All canisters will be turned in order to allow time to get to the game. 
The National Foundation-March of Dimes is an organization founded by Franklin Roosevelt to 
Share prayer, scripture and friendship 
CHARISMATIC 
PRAYER MEETING 
Thursdays 8:30 pm in Holy Cross Hall Notre Dame Introduction session in the Butler Bldg. at 8:30pm 
EVERYONE IS WELCOME! 
Monitor has USC special this Saturday 
by Gary Allietta staff Reporter 

Notre Dame football fans are in store for a bit of nostalgia this Saturday as the Monitor publishes its special Southern Cal issue. Joe Abell, editor of the Monitor, has done "something unique" by tracing the history and legend of the Southern Cal weekend through the annals of Notre Dame football. 
"Basically it's a scrapbook concept based on the Southern Cal game," Abeil said. Only the Monitor highlights the game a unique way. Instead of having pictures of this year's heroes, the Monitor is presenting a collection of the greats of the past. Among 
South Bend 
gets facelilt 
If you've travelled downtown lately, or read the last issue of the Scholastic you're aware that South Bend is undergoining a drastic face-lifting. This is true not only in the downtown area, but in some residential sections as well. 
Renew Inc. is an organization that buys old homes (like the one pictured here), repairs them, and sells them at low cost to the poor. Several parishes in South Bend are involved in this work-they are in need of man and woman power from ND-SMC in order to enhance their work. 
Afew hours on a Saturday, or on a week day night would be a much appreciated contribution, and a good chance to meet and work with other students and South Benders. 
If you're interested in helping to give South Bend a face-lifting, and in this way alleviating the student vs community image so prevalent in this and other college towns contact Tom Stella at the Campus Ministry Office in the library (6536). 
RESEARCH 
Thousands of Topics $2.75 per page 
Send for your up·to·date, 160·page, mail order catalog. Enclose $1.00 to cover postage (delivery time is 
1 to 2 days). 
RESEARCH ASSISTANCE, INC. 11941 WILSHIRE BlVD., SUITE #2 LOS ANGELES, CALIF. 90025 (213) 477·8474 or 477·5493 Our research material Is sold for research assistance only. 
the oldest pictures are a shot of the 1920's NO-Princeton game and a picture of the Fighting Irish western style in 1925 Cheyenne, Wyoming. 
Most of the photos were obtained from Chet Grant at the Sports and Games Collection in the Library. "Most of these pictures have never been printed before," Abell said. "' People send private pictures to the University which end up in the collection at the Library. Some of them can be kind of humorous." The South Bend Tribune and the South Bend Public Library also helped. in producing this magazine. 
Included in the issue are three 
articles about past and present 
football weekends. 
The · Monitor is the bi-weekly magazine of the Observer. Abell is the editor and AI Rutherford is the assistant editor. 
Abell hopes that this wet.•kend's Monitor will be more than just another edition. "We're having extra copies printed to be distributed around the stadium. Fans can keep them as souvenirs," 

What the World Needs Now 
The world needs love••.Men and women who are willing to devote themselves to God's work of rescuing the poor, the oppressed, the forgoffen people of the world. 
You are invited to meet one of them. 
Brother Andrew, co-worker of Mother Teresa of Calcuffa, and founder of the Brothers of Charity, will share his experiences ... 
Bpm 

Moreau Seminary Thursday, October 25th 
Sponsored by the Office of Campus Ministry 


Settle down 
to the 
natural one. Busch: 
Especially after the game (or before) 
found, the March of Dimes turned its attention to fighting birth defects. The National Foundation fights birth defects through programs of research, medical care, and professional and public health education. 

The three hours of help in 
collecting funds before the USC and Navy games will greatly aid the March of Dimes in their effort in seeking answers to prevent the causes of birth defects and the treatment of them. 
' • ~ ...... "· ....... " " ••• : '4 ' '. • ~ • "", ·, ·, 4 il .. ~ 1 
,., ..... ,.._ ............................... "' .. 
• ,.,.,,,,_••• " .......................... 4 •••• 
I I 
.. 

THl~ OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER  
Art Ferranti Executive Editor  Jerry Lutkus Editor-in-Chief  Dan Barrett Executive Editor  
Lee Gentine Business Manager  NEWS: 283-1715 EDITORIALS: 283-8661 BUSINESS: 283-7471  John Kloos Advertising Manager  

Thursday, October 25, 1973 
Impeach· The President 
Almost one year ago, the American people gave Richard Nixon one of the largest mandates a man has ever received to be President of the United States. 
And now, a year later, the time has arrived for Richard Nixon to receive still another mandate. The man must be impeached. 
For the past several months, Richard Nixon has acted as no man in America has the right to act;-above the law of this country. And because of his refusal to live up to the same rules to which every American must live up, the Congress should now vote to impeach him. 
There is little question that there are indeed grounds for such proceedings to be initiated, for the President has definitely aroused suspicions as to his dereliction of duty, a crime punishable by removal from office. 
And has he indeed neglected his duties as President of the United States? 
One need only look to the events of the past week to find evidence of the President's refusal to uphold the honor of his office. The firing of special Watergate prosecutor Archibald Cox raises serious questions as to the right of the president to manipulate our judicial system when it becomes threatening to his own well being.
And those questions become even more pressing when the Attorney General, the highest ranking law enforcement officer in the United States, feels it is duty to 
P.O. 
Box Q 
A Trip 
Up North 
Editor: 
In the weeks since school began, I have spent a great deal of time with my compatriots downgrading the quality of the food at the New South Dining Hall or ridiculing the efficiency, or lack thereof, of the 

-··~ ... 
"scramble" system. At this pOint 

11/HtJ'S 1H!5?.. ZONlf&R, 
HI, HON&Y... JOAN/E. SAY, WHO'S !1Aif!N6 0/NNER rON!6HT? 00 YOU KNOW? 
\ in time, however, a serious re­evaluation of our sentiments towards New South is 'in order. 
Perhaps the best explanation of this diametric alteration in ap­petitive attitude manifests itseH in a brief description of a meal at the North Dining Hall, a meal that was necessitated by the closing of New South during the mid-semester break. 
Upon my arrival at the North Dining Hall; I was met by several friends who had just finished eating. They looked ghastly pale and said little, though they did mutter something about "un­derstanding how Custer must hav'e felt." Failing to make the con­nection between Custer's fate and eating in the North Dining Hall, I proceeded into line. The first item in the Hall besides the fulll suggestion box was a candy machine in the lobby. "Why," thought I, "would one need a candy machine in a cafeteria where food is free for the asking?" I was soon to find"out. Without adding biased 
/'1/K&?.. OKAY, WOK WJ.teN HE COM/5/N, COUUJ YOU 1&1-L.. HIM 
r'U 8t-LATE 
FOR f)JNN/iR? 
"'.. 

resign as a result of the President's ac­tions. 
The administration is beginning to reek of a refusal to come clean. Not only is the list of questions concerning the present administration growing longer daily, but now it seems the President is intent upon eliminating all avenues that threaten to provide answers to those questions. 
A1ttd that list of questions is becoming ever more imposing. Questions con­ceriling the Vesco affair, ITT, the San Clemente Deal, and the President's in­volvement in the Watergate Affair still remain unanswered, and it appears that if the President can arrange it, they will remain unanswered. 
Claims that the President has "WE!athered the storm" of calls for his impeachment by agreeing to comply with cowrt orders to hand over the now in­famous White House Tapes are ludicrous. His agreement still falls short of the court order since there has been no mention of the memorandums and files also called for by Judge Sirica. 
And why indeed should the President be ~mddenly let off the hook because the murmurings of pulblic discontent became so loud that he lh.ad no choice but to comply with the courts? 
Suddenly he is finding that the American people are seriously questioning his claims that his actions are in the best interests of this country. The~y question whether the man ratified by their representatives in Congress was fired in the best interests of the country, or ·whether Mr. Nixon was avoiding confrontation by removing his ad­versary. 
They questioned it so loudly that Congress convened Tuesday morning under the threat of the introduction of a series of resolutions calling for the President's impeachment. And Mr. Nixon's agreement to finally comply with the courts should not cloud the fact that those calls for impeachment were and are still valid. 
The Senate appears certain to force the appointment of a new prosecutor, this time a truly independent prosecutor. But that is no longer sufficient. We have travelled that road, and the man en­trusted with the job was fired when he pursued the truth too aggressively. 
The President has played his hand, and he revealed that his deck was stacked to say the least. Every American must play by the rules, or our system of government seems destined to collapse. When a citizen refuses to play by those rules, he is called to task. 
As the number one citizen, Richard Nixon must now be called to task, or he must resign.
He must learn along with all American politicians that elected officials must rise above breaking -not keeping-the law. 
The Editorial Board 
comments, I shall now attempt to describe the remainder of the "meal." 
I had my I.D. checked and got into line. I then took a tray, which-­due to an abnormal accumulation of rancid grease--managed to slip out of my hand. Likewise, the silverware was a bit hard to handle, but I somehow managed to scrape the dried egg ftom the fork and keep my place in line. The first dish of food I picked up was the jello. "My, what an odd tex­ture," I remarked. I also noticed that the odor was quite peculiar and I quickly dedded to put it back. I believe what finally con­vinced me not to take the jello was that, instead of wiggling, it sagged. 
Next came the grisle roll, which the server tried to ·pass of as roast beef. It was okay, I heard, as long as one ate it before it warmed up to room temperature. 
The salad looked old enough to have been Cain's original offering to Yahweh (which, at this point in time, to the best of my recollectien was also rejected). It was at least old enough to have been tossed by Gus Dorais against Army in the 1913 classic. 
For a beverage, I decided upon some good ol' Grade A, but, at the North Dining Hall, the milk must have come from an Irish cow, as it had a sort of a green tint to it. 
The table had to be scraped clear of a previous day's worth of scraps so the tray wouldn't stick, and the chair had to be draped so as not to stain my Levi's. 
An ominous feeling in the air provided my final revelation as to the value of the North Dining Hall food: even though there were thousands of flies swarming all around the room, they weren't eating any of the food either. This was the coup de grace. 
I calmly (sic) put the tray and its untouched toxicants in the shelved bins and made my way out. Determined yet not to lose strength, I pulled out a couple of quarters and made good use of the candy machine. 
fiarrytrudeau 

In summary, my experience at the North Dining Hall gave new meaning to the word nauseating. An informal poll shows that this was not an uncoomon experience, either, but rather, a clearly documented case of attempted mass ptomaine poisoning. 
And so, dear South, forgive us for ever putting you down. Take us and feed us, and never let us be parted during a break again. Please do not misconstrue this as an unsolicited approval of the quality or presentation of the food at New South. but rather as a realization of its relative merits over what the North Dining Hall has to offer. 
An old Arab expression best expresses this feeling: "I had no shoes and complained, until I met a man who had no feet." The analogy is obvious. 
Alluding, in conclusion, to a hackneyed commercial, I came back to New South, and I'm glad I did. To do otherwise could have been fatal. 
Sincerely yours in health, Robert M. Panoff, esq. 
WHAT?.. W&/..1.-, I PROMI5eO USA I'() 11/it.P HeR 51RIN6 HliR. RACQUGr. .. 1r !1&ANS 
A tor ro HER, so.. 
\ 
the observer 
Nite Editor: Albert D'Antonio 
Assn't Nite Editor: Rick Blower Layout: Ayn Moriarty Day Editor: Jack Kelly Compugraphic: Mike Goetz Copyreader: Terry Keenan Nite Controller: Phil Orshceln Typists: Howard, Tom Modglin, Barb, John Flannagan 
Pictures: Jerome Phillips 
IIIUI-JI -·--~I 171.. 

the observer 
7 


confessions of right-winger 
The phone call came late last Friday night. Person-to-person. It was the president of the Indiana chapter of SOC (Stamp Out Communism). 
"Word has reached me that you've blown your cover. Would you explain this, please?" 
"I'm afraid I don't understand." 
"Isn't it true that you made a spectacle of yourself; that you made it obvious that you work for us, by lashing out in a sermon at the main church with a wild-eyed diatribe against communism?" 
"It wasn't a sermon; it was during the prayer of the faithful." "I don't care when it was. You did it ­that's the unforgivable thing." "But. chief, I didn't think they'd even notice." 
"How stupid can you be! Don't you realize those leftists have been watching you, just waiting for a slip like this?" 
"I know. But I didn't even intend to say it. I just got carried away." "You're not permitted to get carried away -not without permission from this office." 
"I couldn't help it. I was asking people to pray for various victims of oppression. You know, the usual ones -war refugees, mental patients, American Indians, farmworkers, the poor -and it just slipped out. I said: ' ... and also the victims of communist op­pression.' " 
"Just as I thought. You failed to control your emotion in the midst of a hostile audience. Do you think we were wasting time when we trained you in the strategy of subtlety?" 
"I don't think that for a minute. I just never dreamed a few words would destroy all I've done to make people believe I was a trusted leftist." 
"We warned you that it would take time 
Turning a psychological novel such as Dostoevsky's Crime and Punishment into a presentable stage production is a huge undertaking at best. However, Leo Brady's adaptation meets the challenge admirably. 
from novel to play 

Tuesday night,the National Players from Catholic University presented the stage version of this well-known Russian work. Though a series of flashbacks, the dilemma of a student-turned-murderer is revealed. Another device used to bridge the gap from enovel to play was the utilization of ex­positional narrative to relate events essential to the plot, but impractical on the stage. Thus did the plot-line remain true to the story developed by Dostoevsky. 
reproducing st. petersburg 

The unit set of darkly painted flats, placed in front of a backdrop resembling an im­pressionistic St. Petersburg, created a dark, foreboding atmosphere. Set pieces were nondescript blocks of varying sizes. Through the use of effective lighting and the rearrangement of these blocks, different locations were suggested. One disad­and patience before you could consider it American Indians. I was really scoring ­safe to put into operation our plans to clean definitively consigned to the lunatic left." the commie scum out of Notre Dame." "You've forgotten something." 

"Chief, it's been over three years!" "What's that?" "I know that." "The trouble you got into, the suspicion "And it's been hell, too. Involving myself you aroused, when you talked against 
in all those stupid liberal causes. First it abortion." was Vietnam, then Bangladesh, Kent State, "Oh yeah. That was kind of a close call. Cambodia, farmworkers, amnesty, But the static came mostly from the South 
dostoevsky on stage 
fr. bill toohey 
Bend women's lib crowd; and I won them 
over when I made those campaign talks for 
Bella Abzug." 

S"Still, that should have been a sign to you 
of how careful you've got to be when you're 
working for our cause." 
"Gee, Chief, I know that now." 
"Now is too late." 
"What do you mean?" 
"I mean you're being replaced." 
"You can't do that. After all I've done for SOC!" "Sorry, but it's already been decided." "What about my successful infiltration 
into the Rugby Club and my work against the efforts of the Notre Dame students for McGovern campaign.? Don't these triumphs mean anything to you?" 
"Calm down, Father. Nobody's saying you haven't tried." 
"And what about for next year?" 
"I'm afraid you'll have to cancel your Kill-a-Commie-for-Christ Lenten series. Your recent blunder has eliminated any chance for its success." 
"What about me? What happens to me now?" 
"Since you embarrassed not only yourself but all of Indiana SOC, you will be of no further use to us in this state. You obviously need further training under the most proven SOC experts. Consequently. we're sending you to Philadelphia." 
"Not Philadelphia!" 
"I'm afraid soBut that should come as no great surprise. If they can't shape you up, you're beyond hope." 
"Is that all?" 

"Just one last thing. Return the McCarthy buttons you were going to give to the football team prior to the Southern Cal game. We'll have to think of something else now." 
helen fricker and mary walsh 
to mime the opening and closing of doors, which resulting in their shifting of position several times in a scene. In contrast to the non-realistic set were the period costumes and props, quite believable in their realism. 
Playing the guilt-ridden murderer, Raskolnikov, was Tedd Rubenstein. Although his performance was good, it lacked the enthusiasm and visible deterioration that such a role requires, a result, perhaps of overexpsure, which is a hazard of a touring production. One wishes that Mr. Rubenstein would have showed the progression of his anxieties, rather than achieving a pleateau at the beginning and remaining there throughout the play. 
razumikin 

Comic relief was provided for by Raskolnikov's best friend, Razumikin, played by Steven Anthony Smith. Mr. Smith's performance was enjoyable, primarily because of his ability to portray the good-natured, but awkward, comrade. One of his best moments occurred when he proposed to Raskolnikov's sister, in which ·match the male cast, due either to poohe fumbled and stumbled, both literally and script, poor direction, or poor portrayal.
figuratively. 

In the whole, the production was in.
A most impressive performance was teresting in conception, effective in stagin~turned in by Stanley Wojewodski who but lacking in a unified enthusiasti· vantage to this type of staging was the need' played Porfiry, the police inspector. His 

response by the actor. 
ramb~ing, ro_ami~g, rowdy rick 
. Rick Roberts, formerly of the Flying Burrito Brothers, will perform in a free concert in the Little Theatre of Moreau Hall on the St. Mary's campus this Friday evening at 8:00. 
For most of the people reading this, in­troductions are certainly in order. Rick Roberts writes songs that deal with the fallen dreams and general transience of life. 
He handles these topics with the bittersweet wisdom ofone who has roamed around quite 
a  bit,  settling  down  for  a  moment  to  
transcribe what he has seen.  
His songs are written from  one idea or  

musical phrase, a sold concept, which he follows through to a fully-conceived finished product. In doing this, he follows the form of others such as Joni Mitchell, the Band, Bob Dylan, and Merle Haggard. 
His lyrics, in many ways, put him on the same level with Jackson Browne. A feeling for the listlessness of life and the need we all have to share ourselves with those around us stands out in many of his songs. At one moment he can sing of how "nothing last forever anyway", and at another time he will ask "do you think it might help if I can bring my guitar and sing you a song?" 
While with the Burritos, Roberts' songs had an air of the day-to-day, hand-to-mouth existence. A good example of this view of life is "Colorado" from the Flying_ Burrito Bros. album. In many ways the song can be compared to James Taylor's "Highway Song", for they both are concerned with the tension produced by the coexisting needs to travel and desires to settle down. Un­derlying this is a feeling that the singer is trying to cope with the fact that he is getting a bit older, and soon it will not be so easy to get around. 
His album Windmills gives the im­pression of words spoken by someone who has stood up against stark landscapes and rough winds, but still remained steadfast. The spirit of the wanderer, craving ex­perience to complement an every growing sense of wisdom, pervades this work. 
He ha_s_ changed his style since1he Burrito days. His voice is a bit higher·, perbaps to accomodate the demands of being a soloist. 
... 
fred graver 

The list of back-up musicians is impressive including such notables as Jackson Browne Chirs Hillman, Joe Lala, and David Crosby 
The image of the rambling, roaming rowdy troubadour has run the risk of suf focating in overexposure over the last decade or so. Fortunately, Rick Roberts ha done the image one better. He is a roamer certainly, but along with that he has pickee up a : sense of acceptance and optimisre about the various paths of life which he ha~ walked. He is not idealistic or preachy, his is more a spirit of sharing and un· derstanding which leaves you with a friend not a confessor. Rick Roberts is nol sorrowful, he can regret, but he can alsC! accept. 
II· 


Graduates 
complain of 
ticket cost 
by Howard Wood Staff Reporter 
William Lavage, president of Graduate Student Union, has leveled a complaint to the University that graduate students must pay for their football tickets whilP nndere:ratue tickets arf' free. 
"There is discrimination between graduate and undergraduate students by the university's athletic ticket policy", complained Lavage. The policy is that all graduate students must pay $3 per home game ($15 for five games) for their season ticket. 
This policy differs for un­dergraduates. Don Bouffard, director of ticket sales, stated, "The football ticket is a gift from the university and is not paid through tuition or activities fee. Football makes money and that is why the undergrad ticket is a privilege. The university feels that since football is profitable, it isn't right to make students pay." 
Bouffard noted that the Athletic Department is not subsidized for undergraduate tickets. There is no income from student tickets and no money is involved. He added, however, that the graduate ticket money does go to the Athletic Department. 
Concerning the origins of these ticket policies, Fr. Edmund Joyce, chairman of the Athletic Board, commented, "It has always been traditional for Notre Dame students to have free tickets. And as far as I know, graduates have always paid for their tickets. Over the years, the number of graduate students has increased and the school should not expand the free ticket list. Tickets are not even given to the faculty. I don't think there are any colleges that give free tickets to graduate students." 
Until this year, law students received free football tickets. Previously they were considered as both undergraduates and law students because only three years of college were required to enter law school. Many of these were former Notre Dame un­dergraduates. 
"To avoid any discrepancies and 
to be consistent, law students are 
in the same graduate category and 
must pay for their tickets," stated 
Joyce. 
Lavage feels that married grad 
students are not getting a fair deal 
for basketball tickets. A graduate 
student pays $13 a ticket but must 
pay $16.25 for their spouse's for a 
season ticket in the bleachers. 
The university has started a General Public Family Plan where the head of a household can buy one ticket for $23 and each ad­ditional ticket costs $15. This is a $1.25 discrepance between tickets for spouses. 
"The complaint is not the $1.25 
but the principle that grads have to 
pay more than the public," stated 
Lavage. 
Parachuting Instruction 
Your first jump course takes only 3 hours. 
World's largest and safes•.
Our 15th year. 
Over 220,000 Jumps.
21,000 First jumps. 
Free brochure. 
PARACHUTES INC., CRAWFORDSVILLE CENTER 
~  RR No. 7, Municipal Airport  
1aiJ  Crawfordl¥1111,  Indiana 47933  
Cll  Pbou: 317-362·8253  

Thursday, October 25, 1973 
,.... 
' 

PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Main Building 
V:TE?.VIF.~JS FOR \-lEEK OF 0CTOBER 2~ 
Interviews are for seniors and mraduate students. Si~n-up sched•Jles are in Room 207, :-lain :luildin~, except Law Schools wh i :h ~re in 0' Shau~hnes s:' 'la11. Int~rview t irr.es must be selected and signed for in person. Hours are 8:00a.m. to 
5:00 ?.m., :-londav thru Frida:r. The Placerr.~nt ~lanual gives additional infor;.,ation re~ardin!S intervie•,,s and procedures. 
OCT. 29 Atlantic-Richfield Co. 3,~: in Ch.F.. Container Corporation of America, 
~BA. 

George 'Jashington t:niversitv-School of Law. All interested students. Eli·Lilly and Company. Bin E.E., :1.E .• ~1.E.I.0:,Arch.B,~1 in 
Ch.E. and C.E. Ohio State Univ. -Grad. School of Bus. Any bachelor degree candidate. Thunderbird Grad. School of International Mgt. All disciplines. Sears, Roebuck and Co. -Data ProceRsin~ Anrl 
Corporat~ Tax~· Bin ~th and Comp,Sci. BBA ir. Acct. 
l1BA with Ace 1:, back[1:round. Westinghouse Electric Corp, B in ~1. E. I.0 • 3, N in E. E, , ~~, E • , ~!,F. :\. (1: , ~!e t . 
C'CT. 30 :-lanufacturers ~ational 3ank. All 3BA. '!BA IJith Fin. backi'round. Purdu" l'n i v. -KRA..'\:-'ERT Gradua t,• Sch<'o 1. All ce~rees. Texas Instruments. B,~1 i~ E.E., ~I.E., ~l.E.L.l'., ~lrt., F:n~r.:5ci., 
Engr .~!ech., En~--:r. Ph\'s. ~.S. Industrial Che~icals Co. Sin M.E., Ch.E. And E.E. 
OCT. 30/31 P~at, ~~an.·ick, ~!itchell & Co. B,~t '-''ith concentration in Acct. (~!i:li:-:'IU!':l 15 hrs. of ace t.) 
Montgomery Ward & Co, B in Lib. Arts and Bus, Ad, Princeton UnivPrsity-Woodrow Wilson Grad, 
School of Public & International Affairs. All baccalaureate de~rees. 
NOV. 1 Johnson Sc•rvic .... C0t11panv. Bin 'M.E., C.l',, r:.E. and M.F..T.n. 
NOV,l/2 

Cornin~ Glass Works. 
B,N in Ch.E., E.ll., M.E., M.P.. T.C1., Met. Arthur Young & Co. BBA in Acct. MBA with Acct. hackr.round. JD. 
NOV. 2 Carnegie-ME"llon Univ.--Grad, School of Ind. Admin. 
Dif'hold, Inc. !l in Acct., Hkt., Hath/Comp,Sci.., P..P.. FilC"ne's. Bin Lib. Arts., Mkt. and Acct. Insurance Sf'rvlcPs OfFice, B,M in ~1ath. 
Employer information. Alt<'rnatives. Teaching. Summer. 
Action/P~acP Corps/Vista. Federal SPrvicP, Room 222, Administration Bldr,. 
10/17/73 
Universal Artists proudly presents in South Bend 
An Evening With 
TODD 

RUNDGREN 
SUNDAY~, 

NOV. 11th Spm 
MORRIS CIVIIC AUDITORIUM 
211 North Mi,c:higan Avenue Downtown S<J,uth Bend, Indiana 
TICKETS ARE NOW ON SALE: MORRIS CIVIC BOX 
OFFICE, 11-5 daily and at BOOGIE RECORDS.  $4.00 Cad­ 
vance(, $4.50 (day of concert)  
I'· I  

..... .: . .. .. .. .......-. .. .. . .............. ~.
~ 
Widener to speak tonight 
Warren Widener, the first black 

University of California at 
mayor of Berkeley, California, will 

Berkeley and of the University's
speak at 8 p.m. in the library 

Boalt Hall School of Law, is 
auditorium tonight. The lecture, 

described as a liberal, even 
entitle "Working for . Change 

radical, political leader. He has
Within the System", is sponsored 

advocated property tax reform,
by the Student Union Academic 

community police control and a 
Commission. 

city manager government for 
SEND FLOWERS TO TELL SOMEONE HOW YOU FEEL ABOUT THEM. 
· within walking distance from the campus-Teleflora 
The Posy Patch 
(In Roseland) FLOWER AND GIFT S.HOP 409 Dixieway North. 272-6363 
SIX PACKS ON SALE 
(must move 300 cases!) 
RIDICULOUS PRICE 
today thru Saturday 
Car Out 1003 Notre Dame Ave. 
Give Southern California the 
IRISH 
Irish Flags 4" X 6" 

s 
1illl1 Ill llll'lil
Shop: Mondoy-Seturdoy 10.10, Sundoy 111·1 Pllono • 25~110 
100 Center Complex Mishawaka 
In tho Old Komnl'l Brewery 

I I• 
·.. . 



••.•-.-~ .......n..... ·--· •·• • • • • • • • •·•·• 'ThurS'da~; Octob~r'2S, ·1973 · 
''the observer 
9 

Physicist believes UFO's are real 
By STANLEY M. BROWN the existence and reality of 
MIAMI (UPI) -Stanton UFO's is to admit there is a Friedman is a 39-year-old superior intelligence some­nuclear physicist and space where in the solar system." scientist who believes flying Friedman, a frequent UFO saucers are real and are lecturer whose 14 years of work visiting us from planets outside in nuclear physics has included our ~olar system. the Pioneer 10 Jupiter probe, 
Fnedman says many of his said a 1971 poll by "Industrial colleagues in the scientific Research" Magazine showed community also believe in that 54 per cent of the 2,700 UFO's, but most won't admit it professional engineers and openly because of the "laughter scientists surveyed believe 
GOP leaders urge Nixon to 

KNIGHTS OF
appoint neW" special prosecutor 
curtain': of ridicule surrounding the subJect. 
"Most people who refuse to acknowledge the existence of UFO's as manned flights from outside our solar system do so because they don't want to br~ise their egos," Friedman said. 
"_Man has always fought the notiOn that he's not the master of the universe. and to admit UFO's "definitely or probably" exist. 
"This certainly disproves the notion that only little old ladies in tennis shoes believe in UFO's," Friedman said. 
"It's ridiculous that a person who would make a perfectaly reliable witness in court sud­denly becomes unreliable and ridiculed when he reports a UFO sighting. 
"In both instances, we have

"It's time we lifted the 
strange looking craft landing in
laughter curtain surrounding 
remote areas with humanoid
UFO's, get scientists into the 
looking creatures picking up
act and get the kooks out," 
samples, reentering their craft,
Friedman said. 
lifting off at high speed without
"I believe it's time we 
any help from local workers,
mustered the top scientific 
talent in this country, spent some money and began a hard 
lscientific study to prove the existence of UFO's as extra­terrestrial vehicles and obtain 
!
information of real use in the development of advanced pro­pulsion systems for use on this 
j
planet." 
Friedman objects to the "unidentified flying object" label being hung on all strange flying vehicles. 
l 
"I like to think of UFO's as earth excursion modules, or EEM's, since the reports indicate many analogies with our own lunar excursion modu­les," he said. 
investigation Monday into the 

By DON PHILLIPS firing of Archibald Cox with the 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -The former special prosecutor as Senate Republican leadership the first witness. Wednesday unanimously decid­Scott called the leadershiped to urge President Nixon to meeting which was attended by name a new special Watergate assistant leader Robert P. prosecutor. Girffin, policy committee chair­
Democrats and Republicans man John G. Tower, and 
on the Senate Judiciary Com­conference secretary Wallace mittee, meeting privately, also F. Bennett. unanimously agreed on the A spokesman said the GOP need for a special prosecutor. leaders agreed that "the mood 
The decision by the GOP is such that the American leadership was reached at a people must be reassured that meeting earlier Wednesday and justice is working and that a relayed to the White House in a special prosecutor must be telephone call from Senate GOP appointed."Leader Hugh Scott to Presiden­They also agreed that if tial counselor Bryce Harlow. Nixon rejects the idea, U.S. 
They also decided to begin an District Judge John J. Sirica 
Volkswagen sues National 
Lampoon for 'coarse ad' 
NEW YORK (UPI} -A Encyclopedia of Humor edition. 
national humor magazine was Volkswagen asked the court 
sued for $30 million Wednesday to recall all copies of the 
because of an advertisement edition to protect the firm's 
which showed a Volkswagen "reputation and good will." 
floating on water and a caption Goetz Grimm, vice president 
which read: "If Kennedy drove of Volkswagen of America, 
a Volkswagen he'd be President Inc., said the ad was "coarse, 
today." insensitive and cruel.. .and a 
The copyright infringement tasteless publication of a tragic 
suit was filed in Federal Court mishap." 
by Volkswagen against the Sen. Edward Kennedy, D­
National Lampoon magazine. Mass., was driving an automo-
The advertisement, which bile in July, 1969 which went off 
Volkswagen had no part in. a bridge at Chappaquiddick on 
preparing, appeared in the 1\Martha's Vineyard causing the 
magazine's recent National death of Mary Jo Kopechne. 
When your parents are in town, have '~hem stay in South Bend's NEWEST Hotel 
:JlogalJlnn 
31& S. St. Joseph Reservations: (219) 212·2511 

WEEKEND SPECIALS AVAILABLE 
For dining, visit our 
JOLLY KING RESTAURANT 

~nd afterwards hit the "in spot" in town 
THE PURPLE JESTER DISCOTHEQUE LOUNGE. 
Dancing under psychedelic lights 

.· ·-· Ooen · l ra.m.-2ci.m. Mnn:..sal: · · · · · · · · ·­
should name a master or special prosecutor. 
Scott also told Harlow the leaders agreed that Nixon should announce that Henry Peterson, head of the Justice Department's criminal division, will have good indictments in a reasonable time frame to forestall the impression that the investigation has been stalled. 
The spokesman also said all the leaders were piqued that they were not consulted before Nixon's actions last weekend. 
"I wasn't consulted," Scott said. "I would not have given the kind of advice that he <Nixon) received and apparent­ly accepted." 
Sen. James 0. Eastland, D­Miss., chairman of the Judici­ary Committee, announced ear­lier that Cox would be the first witness called Monday. He said he expected former Attorney General Elliot L. Richardson and Deputy Attorney General William Ruckelshaus, who re­signed rather than fire Cox, would also be called. 
LOSE 20 POUNDS IN TWO WEEKS! 
Famous U.S. Women Ski Team Diet 
During the non-snow off season the U.S. Women's Alpine Ski Team members go on the "Ski Team" diet to lose 20 pounds in two weeks. That's right -20 pounds in 14 days! The basis of the diet is chemical food action and was devised by a famous Colorado physician especially for the 
U.S. Ski Team. Nonnal energy is maintained (very important!) while reducing. You keep "full" -no starvation -because the diet is de­signed that way! It's a diet that is easy to follow whether you work, travel or stay at home. 
This is. honestly, a fantastically successful diet. If it weren't, the U.S. Women's Ski Team wouldn't be per­mitted to use it! Right? So, give yourself the same break the U.S. Ski Team gets. Lose weight the scientific, proven way. Even if you've tried all the other diets. you owe it to your· self to try the U.S. Women's Ski Team Diet. That is, if you really do want to lose 20 pounds in two weeks. Order today. Tear this out as a reminder. 
Send only $2.00 ($2.25 for Rush 
Service) -cash is O.K. -to Coastal 
Products. P. 0. 4792, Santa Barbara. 
Calif. 93103. Don't order unless you 
expect to lose 20 pounds in two weeks! 
1 Because· tlrat'~ ·wlrat ·the ·Ski ream-Diet will do! 
and sometimes rendezvousing with a mother ship and zipping off toward another planetary 
i 
body. When viewed like this, it 
4 
takes some of the mystery out of the sightings," Friedman said. 
COLUMBUS 2nd & 3rd Degree 
Sunday -Oct. 28 -1 pm 
Sign-up by Thursday in TV Room 
Degree necessary to become on Officer 
notre dame concerts-Student Union presents 
Paul Simon 
With Urubamba and 1heJesse Dixson Slr.gers 


Tickets: $5.50, 4.50, 3.00 Tickets on sale now at Student Union Ticket Office and ACC Ticket Oftice (Gate , 10) 
• . i • ~-,. ' r ; 

..... _....... •.. I ~ .. ·--·-""'.­
·~------­

• 

Campus briefs ••• 
Missionary of 
India to speak 
A priest who has worked with Mother Teresa of Calcutta will visit Notre Dame Thursday, Oct. 25. 
Father Ian Travers-Ball, known as Brother Andrew, will speak at 8 
p.m. in Moreau Seminary. 
A former Jesuit from Australia, Brother Andrew received per­mission from his superiors to leave the Jesuits when he was chosen by Mother Teresa to look after her male workers. He is the founder and head of the Brothers of Charity, the male companion order to Mother Teresa's Missionaries of Charity. 
The Brothers who now number about 100, work in Vietnam as well as in Calcutta. In Calcutta, Brother Andrew has worked with the poor and established a home for orphans. In Saigon, where Brother Andrew went last March, the order has established hostels for refugees. 
All are invited to attend. 
SMC to vote 
on boycott 
Efforts are being made this week to arouse students interested at St. Mary's concerning the boycott of lettuce grapes and Gallo wines. 
"Mo~t St. Mary's students aren't even aware that there is a boycott" says SMC sophomore Jo ~cGh;~e, one of eight students workmg with the boycott committee at Notre ' Dame. "The first task is to inform them, the second to get the student body to request that the food service stop buying non-UFW lettuce." 

All St. Mary's students will be receiving a letter summarizing the history of the struggle between the United Farm Workers union and the Teamsters. A team of students will be in the dining hall on Thursday to continue the informat­on process. A referendum like the one taken at Notre Dame last spring will take place next week in order to give SMC students a voice in the lettuce purchasing policy of their shoo!. 
SMC series continues 

"Women in the Economy," sixth 
in the series "A Woman's Place 
Is ... " will be presented Thursday, 
October 25, 1973, at 7:30p.m. in 
Carroll Hall, Saint Mary's College, 
Notre Dame, Indiana. 

The speaker for the evening will 
be Dr. Collette Moser, assistant 
professor of agricult:ural 
economics at Michigan State 
University, East Lansing, 
Michigan. Dr. Moser, formerly a 
faculty member of the business 
and economics division at Indiana 
University at South Bend, currently teaches a course on "women as workers," and will 
examine the role of the working woman during Thursday's lecture. 
Dr. Moser is the author of "The Changing Role of Women in the Labor Force," and co-author of "Com batting Discrimination in Employment," as well as several other articles dealing with labor. She had taught at Rutgers University, New Brunswick, New Jersey, and at the University of Wisconsin, Madison. Currently serving as director of the Rural Manpower Policy Research Consortium, Dr. Moser is a member of the select committees on the status of women of the American Economic Asociation and the American Association of University Professors. 
Thursday's lecture is open to the public, free of charge. "A Woman's Place Is ... " is co­sponsored by the Indiana Com­mittee for the Humanities and Saint Mary's College. Other sessions in the series include "The Abortion Controversy" on November 1, and "Government, Women, and the Family" on November 8. 
The Performing Arts Series Presents: 
THE GOLDOVSKY GRAND OPERA THEATRE 
•
1n 
PUCCI"II'S TOSCA 
in English 
O'Laughlin Auditorium Student Adlmission $2.00 Thursday, Oct. 25, 8:00pm Reservations: 4176 
WILL USC SCORE A TD AGAINST NO? The Irish D says r1o more dancing for A.. D.ll 
COME to the KEENAN HALL RALLY -TONIGHT 
OLD BIOLOGY BUILDING 
STEVE NIEHAUS WILL BE THERE· ON CRUTCHES. ·.-~·::::.~.-~~:-:·,:w:H-A:T--:~-A.BOU.T ·YOU?!·~.':::<-':.:<:.:··.. 

OBSERVER ADVERTISING 
CALL 

283-7471 
BEFORE OR AFTER THE GAME 


COME JOIN US FOR SOME GREAT FOOD-GREAT DRINK 
LOUIE'S BAR 
744 North Notre Dame 
open Sat. from 10 a.m.---? 
Alumni & Friends Welcome! 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 
1 am going to be disowned unless 1 get 3-4 GA tix for my father for any home game but Air Force. Will pay $$. Call 4077. 
NEED NAVY TIX. Judy 4970. 
Need 4 GA Navy tix. Call Sue 6793. 
Need 4 GA Navy tix. Will pay . Call Joe. 3274. 
Need several stud + GA USC tix. Call Sean 233-4818. 
Need 2 or more GA USC tix. Call Nick 7920. 
Paperboy desperztel y needs 4 Navy tix . Will Pay $$ + trib. Call Henry 8851. 
Need 2 GA or stud. tix for Navy game. Will pay. 4552. 
Scalpers-me again. Usc tix GA stud. Sharon 287-4003. Please. 
Desperately need 8 stud. USC tix. Will meet inflationary demands. Call Pat 288-5563. 
3 GA Navy tix. (maybe 2 stud. ). Money no object. Call Susan 5154. 
Need 4 GA USC tix. Call Bill 7926. 
Need 2 or 4 adjacent Car­penters tix. Call Bran 6726. 
Need 2 usc tix. Will pay top money. Call 8728. 
Need 2 sec B or C tix to Car­perners and Paul Simon . Call 1487 will pay SS. 
Need 2 USC tix. Will pay call 272-7357. 
Need 2 USC ticket please call Patti 6923. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost Navy Wallet between huddle and circle. Call Kathy 4554. 
Found set of keys near K of C bldg. Call Tom 3307. 
PERSONALS 
Hey Stretch, it's time for you to get better. 
Tim (72) Stop it 1 love it. Happy Birthday , A. F. M. 
R. CORCORAN:  WINK!  lt.s  
about  time.  From  all  the  
GAng.  

Is the pep rally Friday really going to be filmed by Chris + 
Bud + all theirr buddies from ABC? 
We've waited four years for 
this. , ... , , , 'i '.·.; t • •• • .. 
Beat the hell out of USC! 
NOTICES 

Pandora's "the little bookstore 
that could" announces new hours, now open from 9 am to 7 pm everyday of the week, still with those heap big discounts on new used + new used books. also art prints, roll in papers, underground comix and newspaper. 
Minor repairs on electrical appliances. Sid's canary repair. Cheap. 24 Hr. service. 130 Howard, 8173. 
Will trade 1GA USC ticket for 1 Navy ticket. Call 272-3270. 4:30 -6 pm. 
ANNOUNCING HOCKEY SCRIMMAGE+ GRACE TOWER GORILLAS vs. ALUMNI HALL DOGS, THURSDAY OCT. 25. 11:15 pm AT THE A.C.C. 
Morrissey Loan Fund can loan up to $150 at 1per cent interest, 1 day waiting period. 
Basement of La Fortune. 11: 15 -12:15 Mon. -Fri. 
TYPING DONE: theses, papers, etc. Fast. Call Gloria. 234-9765. 
Logan volunteers: Saturday Rec this week 9-11:30 Pumpkin carving day. Everyone please come. please. 
rides wanted 

Riders needed to NYC or Conn. leaving Sunday morning. Call Dave 3546. 
FOR SALE 

MEERSCHAUM PIPES! Exceptional values, per­sonalized service. Catalog. 
PMP Co. Box 444 Gaither­sburg, Md 20760. 
Yamaha guitar FG-300 (original retail price $300) rosewood, inlaid pearl, ad­justable bridge, hardshell case, excellent condition. Call David 8427. 
Guild Bass guitar, good con­d,dual (fender + guild) pick up, semi hard case, must sell, call Jim 1409. 
2 USC tix for sale-together. Paul 7937. 
Tutoring in Emil T. +organic. reasonable rates. Call 8161. 
Pontiac Bonnevilll convertible, power steering + brakes, newwr engine, $200 or best offer. Call 282-1049. 
2 usc tix. Highest bid by 10-25. 272-8069. 
2 GA tix USC. Call Charley 1049. Highest bid. 
Will sell 1 USC stud. ticket. Best offer. 289-1649. 
•• ·.•.-, 2'GA lJS.C. t;x;-·carl 5134..-Besr; )' •. .':~ft:r.~.'\l '_l.t·: "':t) ·' :\+. ~-, · .' 
--------------------~---....., 
. . .. . . . -( 

Tht~rsday, OCtober 2s,• 1973 the obse·rv&·r· 1 f 
Pagna vs SC: a continuing battle

by John Fineran 

"It's dark outside and cold ... There is a strange quiet on campus ... Southern California has done it to us before, and we have done it to them, too, but somehow the world went on, the sun rose again the next morning, and people began to dream of next year ... " 
Notre Dame Scholastic 

So wrote Father Hesburgh after that traumatic 20-17 Trojan upset in 1964. There was 1:34 remaining in the season when Fertig hit Sherman for the winningmargm, and the Irish were denied on this day in November. Their season, Ara Parseghian's first in South Bend, would end 9-l. 
These words of Father Hesburgh 
have special meaning, for they 
could have been used anytime 
during the last six meetings bet­
ween the two schools. These words 
have special meaning to many of 
us. For me, they are a reminder of 
that 1964 contest. I can remember 
crying and not eating afterwards. 
For another person, a person 
who has had much to do with the 
success of Notr~ Dame football 
since 1964, the words also serve as 
a reminder. 
Tom Pagna followed Ara Par­
seghian from Northwestern to 
Notre Dame in 1964. Pagna had 
been a spectacular halfback for 
Parseghian at Miami of Ohio,, 
winning many post-season honors 
in addition to being the school's 
first player to gain more than 1,000 
yards rushing during one season. 
Despite his background, if there is any doubt that Tom Pagna is a Notre Dame man, it has never surfaced.One could easily get the impression, after talking with Pagna, that he was always here. It just seems, despite his Miami and Northwestern backgrounds, Tom Pagna 's whole purpse in life was to be a Notre Dame man. 
Coach Pagna is keeping a diary of sorts, a journal of his 10 years at duLac. Although few have seen it, it probably personifies the ar­ticulate man Pagna is. Perhaps the most <lramatic of his numerous 
memories at Notre Dame is the 1964 Southern California game. As he wrote: 
"It was a blurry tunnel to the dressing room, full of tears, full of sobbing young giants. Quietly they suffered. The manly stifled sobs of total despair ... Ara composed his feelings ... he asked the team to kneel and led them in prayer ... he asked the players to vent their anger and their tears ... he asked each player to hold his tongue, lift his head high and in the face of defeat to be a Notre Dame man ... " 
This Notre Dame man, Pagna, was writing about the players, the Notre Dame men he and the rest of the Irish coaching staff have molded. 
Yesterday, this Notre Dame man had other thoughts on the se­ND series and the game which will be played this Saturday in Notre Dame Stadium: 
"The 1966 game was a great 


Extra Points 

:==============================================================================================:=Quotable quotes 
Southern Cal means different things to different people, and virtually nothing to some, but for Notre Dame, October 2.7, 1973 is the whole season; it means everything. So, what about Southern Cal? 
Tom Clements-Southern Cal's been the game the team and the fans have been waiting for. We've been working hard and we're ready. Willie Towns'end-Enough has been said. The time is here. Greg Collins -Mr. McKay said he will never be beaten by Notre Dame again-I thin)). ~turday'll be the day. Bob Thomas..!.m•ve been thinking about this one for a year, and, after Saturday, they'li have something to think about for a year. Tim Sullivan--Bet on us. And take the point spread. Drew Mahalic-Adversity elicits those talents which under winning circumstances normally remain dormant. Last year Southern Cal supplied the adversity, and this year our talents will surface to the top. Frank Pomarico-We're gonna win. And I'm serious about it. Defensive Line coach Joe Yonto-A lot of blood tingles when you mention Southern Cal. I prefer that on Saturday it turns out like 1966 when we won 51-o-the zero I mean. Steve Niehaus-! don't know, I've never played them. I've missed them twice now. It's the only game I've really gotten psyched for. But I'll get'em, sooner or later, I'll get 'em. Gary Potempa-lt's just like another game. I'm prettyexcitedand all, but that's what it's got to be when you get out there, another game. Eric Penick-Kickthe hell out ofSouthern Cal(Pause) I hate 'em. AI Hunter--It's something new. I just read about it before, but now it's very exciting to be a part of it-we're gonna beat 'em. Luther Bradley-I'm playing them just like any other game. Tim Rudnick-We'll do all right if we treat it like any other game. We just can't afford to psyche ourselves out. Mark Brenneman-It's gonna be a hell of a game. We're gonna be ready. Sherm Smith-My attitude toward the game is one of revenge-Anthony Davis revenge. I was on the kickoff team last year. Dan Morrin-We'll win by 20. ' Cliff Brown--We're gonna win man, that's all, we're gonna win. Pete Demmerle-We're ready for 'em. It's about time we're ready for 'em too. Mike Townsend <to a Motown tune>--I know that we can do it, and we shall 
find a way·
Linebacker coach George Kelly-It's our turn to play error-free. 
Coach Tom Pagna 
thrill. We had the l964loss fresh in our minds. 
"Southern California is so compP.titive, so talent-laden. Last year, Ithoughtwe had them on the ropes when the score was 25-23, but then there was the kickoff return, that one stunning run. Southern 
Outdoor rally 
planned for USC 
The pep rally for the 1973 Homecoming game against USC will be unique. Because of the expected overflow crowd, an outdoor rally is planned. It will be hE:ld in the mall in front of Stepan Center. The stage will be on the grassy hill and will be facing the basketball courts in the Stepan Center mall. The rally begins at 7:00p.m. 
In addition to being held outside, there will be several other unique features. Speakers include the last three Fighting Irish t score against the Trojans: Willie Townsend, Gary Diminick and Mike Creaney. The rally's keynote speaker will be Head Coach Ara Parseghian. In addition there is the possibility of ;orne recent big-name alumnus returning to help us "shake down the thunder." 
The pep rally show promises several other surprises. ABC has expressed an interest in filming the rally and using a segment of it during their telecast of the game. In the event of rain, the rally will be held in the North Dome (the hockey rink dome) of the ACC. 
Keenan hosts 
rally tonight 
Keenan Hall is holding a warm­up pep rally tonight on the steps of the old Biology building. The rally begins at 9:30 and features Coach Joe Yonto, Tom Clements, Steve Niehaus, and Greg Collins. Cheerleaders and the Irish Guard will be there. 
Stanford prays 
for Irish victory 
Stanford Hall is sponsoring a 
rosary for the Notre Dame football 
team, Thursday at 9:00p.m. at the 
Grotto. Father Terrence Lally, 
rector of Stanford Hall and 
assistant dean of students, will 
ead the prayers. 
The prayers to Our Lady of 
Victory are being offered for two 
Gerry DiNardo-lt'll be a 1real hard-hitting game. I'mlreally1looking special intentions, that Notre forward to it. Dame will defeat Southern Cal and Mike Goetz(trainer>-It'll be interesting. that all the 'PLAYERS WILL BE Gary Diminick-I think this is going to be the year. ABLE TO PERFORM THEIR 
Larry Conjar (who was on the 1966 team)-They haven't beaten Southern BEST Cal since my senior year and I thought it would be a nice time to come · back to Notre Dame for my first time and see us beat 'em. Stanford Hall President Jim 
Brian Doherty-We've all read what USC thinks of themselves and what Hoolihan commented t'hat 
they think of us, and both those attitudes will change on Saturday.  "Stanford is sponsoring the rosary  
Ara Parseghian-1 think we'll be emotionally, physically, and mentally  to re-establish the old Notre Dame  
prepared. And we hope the ball :takes the right bounces  . , , _,  tradition of putting God  on  our  
·  You aren'~e only one coach.  side."  .  .  ~....  

California has always had the great talent to pull off the one play. And they are no-less skilled this year as they've ever been. 
"We've improved and emotionally, we're going to ~ ready. If we can play our game this Saturday, I think we'll be all right. 
"Southern Cal will be ranked higher, but will probably be favored. Hidden in there is the dilemma about how people feel about Notre Dame. We're oblivious to who's favored and to any myth. We'll go at them. It will be a good ball game." 
Spoken like a true Notre Dame man. Spoken with a great deal of PRIDE. It is time for all prideful Notre Dame men and women to rally once more. It is time for all of us to remember the words of our Alma Mater: 

Notre Dame, our Mother, 
Tender, strong and true. 
Proudly in the heavens, 
Gleams thy gold and blue. 
Glory's mantle cloaks thee, 
Golden is thy fame, 
And our hearts forever, 
Praise thee, Notre Dame. 
And our hearts forever, 
Love thee, Notre Dame. 
Remember these words this Saturday. Take them with you to the game, Notre Dame men and women. Remember them. Tom Pagna will. 
OBSERVER 
SPORTS 

Trojan Horse Scents 
Southern California doesn't have a Trojan horse. Not even a Wooden facsimile, despite its 23-game unbeaten streak. UCLA has the copyright on that item, and they're keeping it a closely guarded secret. Instead, coach John McKay has come up with something better: flesh-and-blood football players. 
In the days of ancient Troy the hidden player trick was a favorite. An entire squad would be tucked into a giant-sized mascot and rolled into their opponents' end zone. Defeat of the home team invariably followed. 
McKay has no need for such grandiose deceit. He'll resort to some faking in the backfield and stunting on defense to disguise his alignment but, otherwise, the present-day Trojans are about as subtle as Howard Cosell. The King of West Coast football merely dresses up his soldiers in cardinal helments with gold trim, marches them onto the field of battle in full pads and regalia and systematically destroys the opposition. 
McKay couldn't use that horse gimmick even if he wanted to. He'd have difficulty getting the likes of Mike McGirr (6-5, 285), Booker Brown (6-3, 270) and Steve Riley (6-5, 255) inside a Mack truck. McKay would need an ark, not a giant-sized rocking horse, to accommodate his menagerie. It's questionable whether, in these days of rampant misuse of natural resources, there are enough Redwoods left in California to fill the bill. 
A balladeer named Homer, a sort of latter day Grantland Rice who dealt with both prose and lyrics, sang the praises of Achilles, Hector.and Ajax after their performances at old Troy and made them household words. He even turned one into a household cleanser and might have accomplished a similar feat for Achilles had he not been such a heel. 
But the scribes of present-day Troy have acclaimed the deeds of McKay's squad to such an extent that the names Wood, Davis, Swann, Haden, Parker, McKay the younger, Anthony, and Sims are fast reaching epic proportions. Would-be tacklers swear that A.D. (;Anthony Davis­had he played for the old Trojans, his initals would undoubtedly been B.C.) is already a myth. Swann is likened to Mercury, fleet of stride and possessed of winged feet. Wood, a more contemporary hero, is called "Batman," with Sims acting as Robin, though he is more reminiscent of a vulture. Haden and McKay the younger are a more famous duo than Gemini and their sign (a football) in the heavens means success for Troy. Platitudes are always penned about Parker and Anthony may be the noblest Trojan of them all. 
Notre Dame, an institution steeped in its own lore, is well aware of the Trojan's prowess and legend. Much of the mythology of Troy was written at their expense. Three times in the last nine years,McKay-led Southern Cal teams have beaten undefeated Parseghian-coached Notre Dame clubs, twice costing the Irish the national championship. The Trojans haven't lost a battle to the Irish in six years. Although Theismann, McCoy, Gladieux, Clements and Olson have starred, they always played tragedian's roles. Troy's triumphs have been Irish "Thrubles." 
The reports from Homer stated that the Oracle at Delphi predicted that the Greeks, after ten years and numerous injuries, would hand the Trojans a defeat. · 
The present-day Oracle, located at Las Vegas and significantly called 
Jimmy the Greek, gives the nod to the Trojans. It's obvious that the only 
books he-looked at lately contain the morning line, not a verse line. He 
deals in odds, not iambs. It's been ten seasons now since Troy first dealt 
the Irish a grievous defeat. And, in the last six years,Irisb pride has 
suffered numerous wounds. 

The DelpNc Or~~e was often ambiguous, but seldom wrong. Jimmy 
the. Greekis no,classicistt 'J'be Trojans may hav'e alLtbe horses, but the 
Irish jocks will'ride to'victoty. Knock on Wood. '· '-' 
Thursday, October 25, 1973
the observer 

USC tormentors and Irish victims 



2) The next year, Steve Sogge (14) passed to Bob Chandler and the two teams tied,21-21. 



4) 1970's game was played in Los Angeles where a quarterback 
6) ... and the Irish defense.
named Jimmy Jones (8) and a driving rainstorm humbled ... 


.. 
Anthony Davis doubled that number against the Irish defense, and SChad its 3rd straight vs; NO. 





