
--~~-~-~------~--­
~----~ -~-------~-------­
On The Inside 
Off campus shuttle bus 
... p. 3 
Transcendental meditation 
... p. 6 


serving the notre dome -st. mary's community
Vol. V Ill, No. 41 Tuesday, November 6, 1973 
Katz suggests conspiracy in JFKassasination 
Senate Republicans vary on impeachment 
by Val Zurblis Staff Reporter 
Bob Katz, ex-reporter for the Suburban branch of the Chicago Sun-Times and several Boston area papers, gave a lecture-slide presentation yesterday on the topic "Who Killed JFK?" Katz presented President Kennedy's assasination at this time due to the recent Watergate incident. Katz feels the U.S.public is ready to accept the truth about the government and is willing to accept the findings that the Warrent Commission didn't present. 
Ten years ago on November 22, 1963 in Dallas, Texas, President Kennedy and his wife, Jackie, Governor John Connally, and his wife, and Vice President LyndonJohnson and Lady Bird arrived at Love Field. They were on route to the Trademart by motorcade when the President was fatally wounded. He was shot by some unknown assasin(s) and then rushed to Parkland Hospital where he was pronounced dead. He was then quickly flown to Bethesda, Md., for an autopsy. 
Shortly after the shooting, Lee Harvey Oswald was arrested and booked for the assissination of JFK. 
Katz continues that strangely, no records were kept the next two days of interrogations with Oswald." The police said they could not find a tape recorder and the room was too crowded to fit a stenographer in. Oswald also did not have a lawyer. He always appeared confident and believed in his innocence. The one phrase he kept repeating was, "I'm a patsy, I'm a patsy." 
On Sunday, November 24, Oswald, for security reasons, 
was transferred from the police jail to the county jail. All the media knew and were on hand for the transfer. In the crowd of people a man named Jack Ruby shot Lee Oswald. 
Katz points out that if Oswald had shot Kennedy from the 6th floor of the Texas School Book Depository, all wounds would be from the back. Kennedy was blasted backwards from the fatal head shot. 
Also, there was an entrance wound in Kennedy's throat. When Kennedy's body was flown into Maryland the doctors failed to examin Kennedy's throat. It seems, Katz said, that some big brass were in the autopsy room to order the doctors not to examine it. The notes of the autopsy were burned that night by military superiors, Katz added. 
The Warren Commission was created by the govern­ment to find out the truth behind Kennedy's death. Of the hundreds of photographs available, the Commission only looked at a fraction of them and only interviewed wit­nesses against Oswald, Katz informed. 
Katz said the next part of his presentation was going to be like "History turned upside down." Kennedy was warned by friends and officials not to go to Dallas because there were conspiring radical groups and he might be in danger. Kennedy went anyway. 
Katz explained how the motorcade was arranged. Kennedy's car was first. Two secret service men were in the front seat, John Connally and his wife were in the middle, and John and Jackie Kennedy were in the back seat. Next was a car of secret service men followed by the limousine of Vice President Lyndon Johnson and Lady Bird. Then another car of secret service men and a press bus bringing up the rear. 
The most essential evidence was the Zapruder film, an 8 mm home movie one of the spectators was filming at the time of the assination. After the murder, Time-Life Corporation purchased the film from Zapruder for a half million dollars and it has never been released publicly. Katz had a copy of a copy of a copy of the original film. 
The movie showed the motorcade moving along and then Kennedy's car disappearing behind a street sign. On 
emerging, his hands were at his throat and he had been shot. Zapruder got shaky and lost focus causing the limousine-to drop down in the picture. Then the fatal head 
x-reporter Bob Katz, who explained govern­ment conspired and covered-up the killing of J.F.K. shot is seen throwing Kennedy back in his seat. 
Oswald was supposed to have been on the sixth floor of the Book Depository. After a reconstruction of the in­cident using the Zapruder film to calculate the exact times, the FBI figured where the car would have been when the first shot was fired. From the sixth floor win­dow, it would have been impossible to see the car because of a tree in the way. The film showed the three shots occurred in six seconds. 
An Italian bolt action rifle was found on the sixth floor of the depository. This model rifle was discontinued in 1944 and the last ammunition was made in 1948. 
• Oswald was a poor to fair marksman in the Marines. Katz explained how only one of the top marksman in the country could fire three shots in rapid succession without aiming included. 
The bullets hit JFK one in the neck one in the head, one hit a spectator in the cheek, and one when through Con­nally's back out his ribs, hit his wrist, and ended up in his leg. 
Katz said the Warren Commission claims three shots were fired. The only way to explain this was that one bullet went through Kennedy's neck to Connally's back. By an artist's drawing, the bullet, after exiting Kennedy, would have to move "miraculously" up and to the right to hit Connally at the same angle. 
Also, Connally was injured2.3 secondsafter Kennedy. This was too fast for Oswald to fire another shot. The Warren Report said either Connally was mistaken when he was first hurt or else showed a delayed reaction in the film. 
The other bullet that hit Kennedy went through his right 
temple which is "normally located at the front of the 
head" joked Katz. 
After Kennedy was taken to Parkland Hospital, a bullet 
was found on the stretcher which matched the type 
Oswald could have fired from his rifle, except it was in 
almost perfect condition. On firing a bullet into the 
forearm bone of a cadaver, the bullet was distorted as 
shown by Katz' slide. Katz claimed the Warren Com­
mission wanted to indict Oswald in the public's eye. Katz 
believes it was a crossfire that killed JFK. 
The motorcade took place on a clear, sunny, 68 degree 
day, yet a man near the street sign was holding an open 
umbrella above his head, After the fatal bullet was shot, 
Katz showed slides where this man put his umbrella down 
and, while people were all looking towards Kennedy, this 
man was facing the other way. He could have been a 
signal for the shooting, remarked Katz. 
Other slides showed'that Johnson's secret service men 
covered him immediately and ran to his wife after the 
first shot. It took almost five seconds before Kennedy's 
men moved into action to help him. 
From more slides, a figure was found behind a wall on a 
grassy knoll in fron of th President. Right after the last 
shot this figure disappeared. 
The closest eye witnesses were Mr. and Mrs. William Newman. They were ten feet away when Kennedy was shot. Mr. Newman, a combat war veteran, claimed he heard shots whizzing over his head. This means that the shots would have to have come from the knoll. Katz noted that the Warren Commission never called the Newman's to testify. 
A !lla~ in .one of the slides seemed to have something bulgmg m h1s back pocket. In 1966 Jim Hicks cam to Jim Garretson, the District Attorney of New Orleans prosecuting the assasination, claiming he was that man in the picture. . After thi~, Hicks was beaten by some unknown and 1s now bemg held, against his will in an Oklahoma mental hospital. ' 
Officer Smith was the first man to jump over the wall where he heard shots and where the figure in one slide was. He saw one man walking who, when he saw the policeman, showed Smith Secret Service credentials. Smith let him go. Officer Craig, another policeman, saw one man in front fo the Book Depository asking questions of witnesses, asking what they saw and taking notes. He also showed Secret Service credentials. Katz commented that it was later learned that there were no Secret Service men in the area. They had all gone to the hospital. 
According to Katz's slides, some arrests were made a half an hour after the assasination. Men were alledgedly arrested on vagrancy charges. There were,however, no records of anyone being arrested on those charges that day. · 
A strange coincidence is that a picture of one of the "arrested" men matches an artist's composite drawing of one of the suspects at Martin Luther King's assasination. The resemblance was shown on one of Katz's slides. Katz claimed that the arrests were a convenient way to •escort the real assasins away from the scene. 
There were also conflicting reports on the rifle found in the Book Depository, elaborated Katz. The bullet found, or planted, on the stretcher could be traced to Oswald's rifle, admitted Katz. However he pointed out that nitrate tests on Oswald to see if he had recently fired a rifle were negative and the rifle was never checked to see if it had been fired that day. 
After Oswald left the Marines he declared he was defecting to Russia. He stayed there 2% years and then wrote the State Department requesting to return to the United States. They sent him fare to get home and he received a passport in less than 24 hours. Passports are not normally issued to to defectors. 
Katz tol.d that FBI, on searching Oswald's house, hap­pened to fmd a photograph on top of a junk pile. It was a picture of Oswald posing with the gun found at the Book Depository. Oswald claimed that it was his head but not his body. The shadows of the body fall at a slant and the shadow of his nose is straight down. Also, the jaw was fatter in the photograph. Oswald's wife claimed she took the photo, but after looking up the date it W'is found that the day had been cloudy and overcast. 
Amelio Santana said he fired two shots from thE' Dallas textile building which was across the street from the Book Depository. He was given immunity. 
Bill Seymor bore a strong resemblance to Oswald. He was even known to have used Oswald's name at least once. 
Both Seymor and Santana were at a CIA Cuban exile training camp during the summer of 1963. Katz showed slides of this. JFK ordered the shutdown of this camp
Katz said. 
David Farey was a friend of Oswald. On the day of the shooting, he drove from New Orleans to Houston and made several phone calls from an ice skating rink. On returning to New Orleans, the FBI questioned then released him. Afterwards, he deposited $7000 in his bank account, Katz noted. 
Katz ended his lecture by stating that, "I think Kennedy 
was killed by a conspiracy and the fact was withheld from 
the United States public from the time it occurred." 
WASHINGTON (UPI)-Asked about Brooke's statement, Scott told Senate Watergate Committee instead. Senate Republican Leader Hugh Scott said Monday reporters: "I regret it." He also denied reports that "I think the only way he has out now would be to he regretted that GOP colleague Edward M. Brooke the Republican congressional leadership· had show up some morning at the Ervin committee ... had called for President Nixon's resignation. But discussed asking Nixon to resign -a proposal put and say, 'Here I am Sam. What do you want to,he endorsed pleas for "full and complete forth by a growing number of congressmen and know?", Goldwater said before a speakingdisclosure" in the Watergate case. newspaper editorial writers. engagement at Uta~ State University in Logan.
Brooke, of Massachusett s, said Sunday Nixon But Scott in effect supported a proposal byshould resign because he has "lost his ef­Senator Peter H. Dominick, R-Colo., that Nixon Dominick, in a speech prepared for The Denver
fectiveness." He w'as the first Republican senator divulge all information sought by Watergate Bar Association, said Nixon should surrender all 
to propose this. prosecutors. Scott told the senate the adminstration Watergate-related material to the Senate in­House Speaker Carl Albert, who would succeed 
should make "full and complete disclosure" and vestgating committee and the special prosecutor. 
Nixon if he stepped down now, said he "would not "give the people all all the information and let them "there can be no more deals and no more technicaljoin the group who wants the President to resign." judge." 
arguments about evidence/' he said.
;But he said it would be "absurd" to assume he was Senator Barry Goldwatei; R--Ariz.., said that Nbtori's aides insisted throughout the weekend he 
afraid to be President. Nixon should not resign, but appear before the has no intention of resigning. 
the observer Tuesday, November 6, 1973 
Ombudsman service 
warld briefs 
Washington UPI-Donald H. Segretti , the White House-hired lawyer who admitted playing dirty tricks on 1972 Democratic presidential contenders, was sentenced Monday to a six-month jail term which he described as a "fair sentence." 
The sentence was imposed by U.S. District Judge Gerhard Gesell, who added three years probation after the jail term. 
Key Biscayne, Fla UPI-President Nixon, preparing to return to Washington, indicated through his aides Monday that he was more determined than ever to resist pressure for his resignation. 
The President wound up a four-day stay at this oceanside retreat by meeting with his two Watergate lawyers, Leonard Garment and J. Fred Buzhardt, to discuss strategy to combat the public skepticism that arose last week when they disclosed that two of the Watergate tapes subpoenaed by U.S. District Judge John J. Sirica never existed. 
Washington UPI -Rep. Gerald R. Ford complete Senate testimony on his fitness to become vice president Monday by urging President Nixon to use "any and all ways" to convicce the public of his innocence of complicity in Watergate. 
Rabat, Morocco UPI-Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger arrived in Morocco Monday at the start of a global tour for Middle East peace talks in five Arab capitals and world policy talks in China. 
New York UPI.,.,. Thenation's"biggest city was hit by hospital, newspaper and airline strikes Monday and faced the still greater threat of a walkout by its 14,000 firemen Tuesday -the first such action in the Fire Department's 108 year history. The fireman, who had threatened to walk out Monday morning, re demanding a $2000 raise in a one-year contract. 
Freehold, NJ, UPI -Lester Zygmaniak, 23, who admitted killing his paralyzed older brother in a hospital with a sawed-off shotgun because of the pain he was suffering, was acquitted of murder charges Monday by reason of temporary insanity. 
an campus taday 
2:00 pm -film, civilisation series, the great thaw, engineering auditorium 
3:00 pm -presentation -woodrow wilson administrative in­ternship program, mr. dennis riegel, director, all mba's invited, room 222, hayes-healy building 
6:00pm-meeting, ladies of notre dame, library auditorium and lounge 
6:30 pm -meeting, flying irish flying club, room 12, aerospace building 
7:00p.m. -meeting, nd-smc red cross blood program, room lc, Iafortune. 
8:00pm meeting, baltic club, fiesta lounge, Iafortune 
8:00 and 10:00 pm -film,cinema '74, singingg in the rain, engineering auditorium 


at nd-smc 

SMC vote set 
on lettuce issue 
A referendum will be taken in the St. Mary's dining hall at the evening meal this Wednesday , November 7 to determine the feeling of the student body con­cerning the lettuce purchasing policy of their dining hall. 
As of now, The SMC dining hall is purchasing lettuce picket by Teamster Union employees, rather than supporting the boycott sponsored by the United Farm Workers union. This referendum will give SMC students a chance to voice their opinion on the matter. According to Fr. Tom Stella, Campus Ministry, this is an "opportunity to support a poor and oppres:;;ed people." 
The Observer Is published dally during the college semester except vacations by the stuaents of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions -nay be purchased for $8 per semester ($14 per year) from The Observ~ Box Q, Notre Dame, Indian~ 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame. Ind. 
46556. 
Caznpus life study under\Vay 
"Last spring, Brian McGinty by Mike Dewey made the suggestion that we (The Staff Reporter Ombudsman Service) begin an in­
depth look into the problems of 
In the wakP-of the increasing venereal disease, unwanted number of personal problems pregnancy, birth control and drug presented to The Ombudsman abuse. Tom Gibbons, the Special Service, the organization has Projects and Services official of begun a specialized study of the organization, took over ­campus life. most of the early research," said 
The purpose of this study is to Ombudsman director Bill McLean. develop sound referral practices In time , Mike Davis assumed for the Service's use which will aid control of the study. This was still not only students, but also the last spring -there was no real Notre Dame community in dealing urgency in completing the project. with the problems and needs "About three weeks ago,"which arise during the course of McLean continued, "a daily life. recognizable increase in these 

Juggler fall edition due cit beginning of December 
by Tom Russo deadline is already past for the Fall edition, articles will still be
Staff Report.er 
accepted for the Spring issue. 
"'The Juggler;' Notre Dame's "There are no special categories," student literary magazine, will be says Thornton, "The material we available to the public the first publish is entirely dependent on week of December, according to what comes in." 
James Thornton, a member of This semester's "Juggler" will "The Juggler" staff. contain about forty pages, thirty of 
Issues will be mailed to all which are poetry. Several subscribers, and will be on sale for photographs are also featured. "In 50 cents at the Huddle and in the previous years," Thornton stated, 
Memorial Library Lobby. "we have had a variety of literary The magazine has two editions: forms, including a libretto opera, Fall and Spring. Although the plays, literary essays, and book reviews." 

'}"~• • J F , For information call John Cory'lnanClQ UtUre at 234-348or Kevin O'Connor at 233­8480. 
calls occurred. I don't believe that this was due to an especially drastic increase in the problem areas. Rather, I think it resulted from a greater feeling of con­fidence in The Service on the part of the students." 
A meeting was held by the Ombudsmen and it was resolved to accelerate the work on the study. Full-time devotion seemed almost impossible due to studies. 
"Last week, John Tully, a 1972 graduate of Notre Dame, returned for the Southern California game. John was extremely active in The Service last year. I talked to John and explained our predicament. He agreed to take over the 
study on a full-time basis for as long as he could" 
Tully is now operating under the title of Special Consultant to The Ombudsman. He began his study by interviewing members of campus ministry, Counseling Center, Psychological Service, Student Affairs and certain dor­mitory rectors. These informal talks have taken place all this week. In all, about 20 interviews were conducted. 
"The co-operation of these people was just fantastic. Everybody was glad to help and felt that this was a valuable and necessary undertaking, " McLean noted. 
"Fr. William Toohey, Fr. David Schlaver, Br. Just and Dr. Sheridan McCabe have been especially enthusiastic and helpful in many ways," he added. 


~~opic of lecture 



PLACEMENT BUREAU
The fourth lecture in the series 
"Looking Into Your Financial 
Main Building

E"uture" will be presented today at "7:30 p.m. in Carroll Hall, Saint 
1NTERV1FHS FOR \olf. EK OF NOVEHBER 12 

Mary's College. 
IntrrviPI~~ :lrP for SPniors and graduate students. Si~n··ltp
Speaker for the evening will be 
schedules ilTC' in Room 207, Hain Ruildinr., E"xcept Ltlw Schools
Thomas M. McKeon, vice 
~vhich are in 0 1ShaughnPssv Hall. Int(•rvi.C'w timPs must be 
selected and signpd for in pPrson. Hours ar~ 8:00a.m. l11
president of the McCarthy In­
5:00 p.m., Monday thru Friday. The Placement "-tanual l~ives
surance Agency, Inc., South Bend. 
additional infonnation regarding interviPws and
lfle will discuss purchasing property and personal liability 
NOV. 12 Naval Unrlerwater Systems CPnter. 
B,M,D in M.E. and E.E. Owens-Corning Fiberp.las Corp. 

insurance, as well as casualty 
insurance for automobiles, boats, 
B in Mkt. HBA 1<1i.th l-1kt. or Mgt.

and recreational vehicles. 
B in M.E. end E.E. 

McKeon, a graduate of Notre 
The Torrington Compeny. 
B in H.E.

Dame, has been in the insurance 
business for 16 years, and is a 
NOV.12/13 Bethlehem Steel Corp.
member of the National 
procedures. 
hack?;round. 
Bin nll rlisciplinPS for tPch.sales. 
Bin C.E., E.F.., Engr.Sci., ~'. 1'. and Acct. for Loop CoursE". 

Association of Independent In­
surance Agents. He, his wife, and 
TouchP Ros~ & Co.

family have lived in South Bend for 
BBA in Acct. and Fin. HBA with Acct. And

four and a half years. 
Fin. back~round. 


NOV. 13 Factorv Mutual Engineering Asoc. Bin H.R., C.R., Ch.E., F.E., A.R., Enrr.Sci. Montgomery Elevator Companv. Bin Arch., E.F.. and H.E. BBA in Mgt. end t1kt. HBA with Mgt. and Mk t. backgrounds. Motorola, Lnc. B,H,r. tn F.F., Univ. of Pittsburgh-Grad. School of Bus. All intPrPsted ~tudents. \.fashin~ton Univ. -Grad. School of Bus .Ad. 
NOV. 14 Environmental Protection Div.-State of Georgia. B in C.E. B,M in Envir. Health. Ingersoll-Rand Co. Bin M.E., Engr.Sci., C.~. MBA with BS Engr. 
Lonp, Island Lighting Co. B in E.E. and M.E. NCR (National Cash Register) B,M in E.E. 

NOV .14/15 Arthur Andersen & Co. BBA in Acct. MBA. 
NOV. 15 ~~ler Corporation. B,M in E.E., M.R., C.E. and A.E. 
IPress) 
Halcon IntPrnational, Inc. and Scientific Design Co., Inc. B,M,D in Ch.E. W'ashington & v~e Univ. -School All int~rest~d stu~ents. Wilson & Go., Inc. 
All BBA. B.in Biol. and Chern.

THEME: The Person of Jesus 
NOV.l5/16 Cornell Univ. -Grad. School of Bus. and Public Admin.
PLACE: Old Colle~1e 
All bachelor degree candidates. 
Babson College -Grad. School of Bus.

NOV. 16 All interested students.
A fee of $5 ($3 non-refundable 
deposit) will be requested. 
Hurdman and Cranstoun. BBA in Acct. Sargent & Lundy, ::ngineers.

Sign up in the Camp11Js Ministry Office 
B,M in E.E. and M.E. 


Syracuse UnivPrsity-School of Mgt. AlJ4.lla'\hO:\"f ,degr,ej, ;s.nd~date~:j (. .'-'. 
in the Library -103 
/-. u.s.sw!1 cln)S. Bin M.E., E.E. and Met. 
of Law 

Tuesday, November 6, 1973 the observer 
Off-campus shuttle starts Wed. 
by Janet Denefe Staff Reporter 

The Student Government off­campus shuttle bus will begin running this Wednesday morning, announced Mike Geisinger, student body vice president Monday. 
The bus costs only a dime and will run every half-hour for two hour blocks in the morning and afternoon. The first bus leaves at 
7: 35 a.m. from the corner of Michigan and Navarre and arrives 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIDIIIIUUIIIIIilniiiiiiiiiUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIII MORNING ROUTE 
(Monday-Friday)  
Leave Circle 7:55 8:25  Leave Michigan-Navarre 7:35  Arrive Circle 7:55 8:25  
8:55 9:25  8:55 9:25  

9:55 

The first bus does not leave from circle-but, instead, starts at 
Michigan and Navarre. · 

AFTERNOON ROUTE 
(Monday-Friday) Direction reversed from morning route) Arrive CircleLeave Cfrele Arrive Michigan-Navarre .. ­
3:35 5:55 

4:05. 4:05 4:35 4:35 5:05 
5:35 5:35 
5:05 'r-; 
, The last bus does not return to campus; but, instead, ends at Michigan ­and Navrre. · 
.IIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUJIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
STUDENt GOVERNMENT 
OFF-CAMPUS BUS SHUTTLE 

Thia ia the 1110rn:l,ng route.; the 
afternoon route runs in the reverse 
direction. 

MBA students offered 
Wilson internship program 
Dennis Riegel, director of the Woodrow Wilson Administrative Intern Program, will be on campus today to discuss the internship with MBA students. The presentation will take place at 3:00pm in Room 222 of the Hayes-Healy Building. 
The Internship Program provides opportunities for MBAs interested in educational ad­ministration to gain first-hand experience. Potential interns are recruited at the nation's leading graduate schools of business and, if accepted, are placed in either traditionally black or Appalachian Mountain colleges. Their tasks run from assistants to presidents to budget officers to development officers and often part-time teaching. 

Internships have averaged approximately two years in length and salaries range from $10,000 to $16,000, depending on the intern's talens and the financial reources of the cooperating college. The program is now in its sixth year of operationand has placed 44 interns 
at 27 participating colleges. 
notre dame concerts -Student Union presents 
David Crosby and Graham Nash 

This Saturday 
8:00 


Tickets are $5.50, 4.50, 3.00 on sale now at Student Union Ticket Office and ACC Ticket Office. 
GOOD SEATS ARE -~TILL I}.YAILABLE 
at the Circle at 7:55. All other buses depart from the Circle. The last morning bus arrives at the Circle at 9:55 and afternoon bus rssumes at 3:35p.m. It follows the same route but in the opposite 
direction so that students who live fairly close to school will not have to ride the entire circuit. The last bus leaves the Circle at 5:35 and ends at the corner of Michigan and Navarre at 5:55. 
The University made a com­mittment last spring to com­pensate somehow for having to force students off-campus. Thus the shuttle bus is the result of a lot of planning by Geisinger, H-Man, and Father Schilts the Director of Off-Can1pus Housing. The route was planned with the aid of a demographic map that showed the distribution of off-campusresidents. 
Because of the low fare Geisinger acknowledged that 
money on it, but we think it will be a real benefit for off-campus students so it will be worth the expense." However, Student Government would like to . get as many riders as possible because the shuttle bus is presently only an experiment and would have to be discontinued if it were not used. 
Student Government-is distributing copies of the schedule with a more detailed map. These can be picked up outside of the off­campus office in the basement of La Fortune, at the Student Government office, and hopefully at the bus shetler. 
The bus is an older type, like the ND-8MC snuttle and will be easily identifiable by the sign in its window, "Student Government Off-Campus Shuttle Bus." 



Hairstyling ... with style 
+Award Winning Stylis~: +Unique Atmosphere 
+ Roffler Styling and Products 

KEN·s DEN 
First Floor, 100 Center Mishawaka, Indiana Appointments Prefered, 255-6500 

"Student Government w~ill!!_~los~e~=========================~ 

Buy the BSR 710 or810. 

Either way you'll get the shalt. 
The BSR 810 and 710 have their brains in their shaft. A carefully machined metal rod holding eight precision-molded cams. When the cam shaft turns, the cams make things happen. A lock is released, an arm raises and swings, a record drops, a platter starts spinning, the arm is lowered, the arm stops, the arm raises again, it swings back, another record is dropped onto the platter, the arm is lowered again, and so on, for as many hours as you like. 
Deluxe turntables from other companies do much the same thing, but they use many more parts-scads of separate swinging arms, gears, plates, and springs-in an arrange­ment that is not nearly as mechanically elegant, or as quiet or reliable; that produces considerably more vibration, and is much more susceptible to mechanical shock than the BSR sequential cam shaft system. 
When you buy a turntable, make sure you get the shaft. The BSR 710 and 810. From the world's largest manufacturer of automatic turntables. 

. 
~
• BSR (USA) ltd.. Blauvelt, New York 10913 
....... ..rn6U ~ "I!' ,-,.­
tt'' .Oil>(! 
i I .<1-:,.­

.. 
-----------------------------------------------------------· 
the observer Tuesday, November 6, 1973 



P.O. Box Q 
... on signing, stances and consistency 

What's Really Your Name 
To Mark Reynolds via the editor: 
There are two things worse than a moron, Mark. One is a moron with a pen in his hand and the other is a moron with a pen in his hand who lacks the guts to sign his own name to his own ignorance. 
Father Toohey's article on "Communism" was a joke, a parody on the style of Art Buch­wald, and a parody that went in one of your ears and out the other because there was nothing in between to stop it. It was a clear job, urbanely done, and completely beyond the pale of anyone un­familiar with intelligent writing. 
I tried to contact you to tell you that you really had missed the intentional irony inFather Toohey's article, but !discovered that, like a Watergate tape or two, you don't even exist. Anonymity is usually used by those who say something so significant that they fear the consequences. You could have signed your full name and included your hair color. You are unknown to student directories, hall roster, or even telephone operators. 
After seeing the entirety of your 

I WAS TAKING THE TAPES OVER TO JUDGE SIRICA... 

I RESCUED ALL BUT 
two OF THE TAPES... 



daanesbury 
IA/fU, 8AS!CAU't SW££11£, 1'11 SICK Or tAOS! I'VE GOT TatJ WEeK~ t.GAVE ~ ANO I WANT TO f30 
~ AS fAR AIUAYAS I 
' CAN! 
I 

I .~ 
, WHY NOT?"f_.fi4_ 
i 1AK&A ~~ 
: CA/180!JfA? /..OOK AT , ~ " • 1HIS NEW ~\>;

,. 
.. 
[J . \ 8ROCH!/R£ "~ 
'· ,, I \
J_l 
~HC 
~= 

article in context, I began to realize why you didn't use your real name. You claim that you are going to "take a look at the record" but you then cite absolutely nothing except your paranoiac prattle about an article that you were incapable of understanding. I have personally seen Father Toohey's views drive people out of the 12: 15 Sunday Mass, have personally seen him picketing at the A&P when most of us, in­cluding myself, lacked the courage to do so. His interest in amnesty and draft counseling is well known, his published books well received, and his liturgies well attended. He represented his religious com­munity at a UFW strike in California, has spoken at UFW rallies here, and was instrumental in organizing the student referendum which led to Notre Dame'slettuce boycott. On top of this, he signs his real name to all his letters, an admitted triviality when compared to his other ac­tivities, but a trivialtiy which should show you precisely the difference between commitment on his part and snivelling cowardice on yours. 
There are many who object to the Toohey way of doing things, but at least it is one way of getting things done, perhaps not the best way but at least an effort to do something, and that is obviously much more than sitting back under an umbrella of ignorance and taking cheap shots under the guise of an assumed name. 
Perhaps the greatest service of all is the most difficult to document. He functions as a priest to those in need. No pictures. No credits. No "Silver Fox" silliness. Just one person trying to make things a little better for another and bearing in silence the burden of failure. 
You concluded your inane diatrive by saying "Don't hold your breath." Maybe you should hold yours. For about a month. 
Yours, 
Joseph S. McNamara 
The Only Position 

Dear Editor: I would first of all like to thank Dr. Rice for his article con­demningabortion.It is an excellent article summarizing the only true positon a Catholic person can hold on abortion, and his article is sorely needed in a university such as this one. 
I was extremely sorry to see some of the faculty's response to Dr. Rice's article. These faculty members base most of their disagreement on Dr. Rice's con­tention that the abortion issue is not properly debatable. I agree with him on this point, and his meaning is clear if one reads what he has to say. He does not say that we should not disucss the issue whenever we are given the op­portunity. He has discussed the issue more than anyone else on­campus. His actions speak for him there. But what is most disap­pointing in these faculty's responses is that they are taking issue with one part of Dr. Rice's article and using this disagreement to hide the am­biguity in their minds about the position the University should take on this issue. 
What Dr. Rice is offering this University is an opportunity to lead inan area vitally important to 
a human person. But it appears that some of the faculty members do not want to really lead, but would rather play a mediating role insociety. Christ did not mediate between different factions in society, but led people to the truth and goodness of being. 
I am sick of the view this Uni­
versity seems to have of itself. It 
seems intent upon showing how 
open it is to any side of any 
question to the extent that it will 
only publicly support those issues 
which are popular to other 
academicians across the country. 
This University seems afraid to 
say there are some issues right and 
wrong by nature, because if it 
does, it might risk losing is 
progressive status. The abortion 
issue is one such case, and 
cannot comprehend why there 
should be any hesititation in 
declaring it wrong. 
Fr. Toohey's absurd statement that those opposed to abortion should not concentrate on a con­stitutional amendment but on education because people were having abortions before the Supreme Court's decision is ridiculous, and a good example of a failure to take a decisive public stand. According to what Fr. Tooheysays we might as well forget about ordered society, and throw out all the lawsbecause people break them anyway. Just because people do not act ac­cording to the law does not discredit the law at all. It would be meaningless to teach one right and wrong it there were no laws ap­plicable to all members of society on which one could base his teaching on. Anyway, if Fr. Toohey would take the time to educate himself on the facts of abortion as Dr. Rice has, then he might come to see the real truth of the matter and the need for a corporate stance against abortion. 
I see a real lack of leadership from these few faculty on this subject of abortion. It is a tragedy because people today are thirsting for leaders to point to the real truth, but they will not receive it from those who insist upon equivocating in areas of truth. 
So thank you again, Dr. Rice, for your fine article. I only hope that the University heeds your request, because your is the only positon on abortion a truly Catholic univer­sity can hold. 
Sincerely, 
Rick Schumaker 
Consistently Tearing Down 
Dear Sir: 
I watched the ND-USC game last Saturday, and watched the hassle as the students succeeded in tearing downthe goalpost, in spite of the herculean efforts of the police. Later, I read that one policeman was injured as a result of this. 
Several days later, I read that Fr. Hesburgh seemingly gave approval to this rowdiness, and asked for a piece of the goalpost. My question--if Fr. Hesburgh and his administrators are in favor of such outbursts, why hire policemen to try and protect their property and keep order, and run the risk of being severely injured? 
Howse about some con­sistency ,for a change? 
Aleece Miller 




..WHEN I WAS JUMPED BUT I HAVE ACERTAIN 

COOL! 


Y~T~ QPJ}r~
t¥ ..AND DASHED TO r Why doesh't anybody?

ever o'llieve me .•..•

SIRICA'S OFFICE. 
'=larry lrudeau 

~--------------~--~ 
H&R£'5 ALL TH£ 
MON/3Y I'VE 601. 
WHAT 00 YOt:l 5l/6GE5T? 
"CU-1& TO [()LORFf/L. I ~ 

CAMt>.OOIA: A LJVUY.!Wi the observer 
CHANGING COf/NTR'(, ~ FIU£0 WITH A/..1.. o =--THE ORAMA Or 
Staff l:lox:
-+-A NEWlY EVOlVING NATION!'' 
Night Editor: Robert Baker 
/ 
Ass't Night Editor: Tim O'Reilly Layout: Marlene Zloza Day Editors: Tom Bundy and Marlene Zloza compugraphic: Michael Goetz Typists: Barb Norcross, Connie Fourre, Howard Halle, Mary Romer Sports: Greg Corgan and Peggy Lawlor Copy Editor: Marlene Zloza Pictures: Jerome Night Controller: John Flannigan 
l:lelated thanks to Denny Casey 
l 
-:to 
Tuesday, November 6, 1973 the observer 5 

quodrophenio: rock becomes literature 
Late in the summer of '65 a young man sits on an isolated rocky island off the shore of Brighton in England. He is coming down from a violent drunk, accompanied by enormous doses of uppers. As he sits, he begins to piece together the confused puzzle of his life. 
So begins the latest effort by Peter Townshend and the Who, entitled Quadrophenia. Itis not a "rock opera", like Tommy, for there are none of the features of an opera such as the overture. There is only one character in this work, with the ex­ception of a figure representing Townshend in the song "The Punk meets The God­father". Itis a unified musical composition, a portrait of one person and the times he is living through. 
of four personalities in one person. Not only does this one person develop before us, though. We are also given a musical aml sociological history of the Who from the summer of '65, when they began to gain popularity, to the present, when they are burdened with the responsibility of veing artists and spokesmen for an entire generation. 
Following the peacefulness of the opening is a fantasticrocker, featuring the drums of Keith Moon and the bass of John Entwistle. 'This song gives us a picture of Jimmy's disillusionment with the world around him. He tells of how he confuses his mother, his friends, his preacher, and his psychiatrist by hiding himself in various personalities. It is a picture of disenchantment. 
" a unified musical composition, a portrait 
"
of one person and the times he is living. 
The best way to describe the album is to say that it is literature. The narrative written on the inside cover, Jimmy's ex­planation of his madness and the events which the album covers, has the feeling of Salingers' Catcher in the Rye.· Jimmy is to the middle and late '60's what Holden Caulfield was to his generation. In this character exists all of the tumult, confusion, anxiety, rebelliousness, and passion that was so mucha part of the later portion of the last decade. 
The album opens with the sounds of the sea: waves pounding against the shore, gulls gulls drying, the wind whistling. Rising above this are interjections of the four musical themes of the work. They represent both the four personalities which are in Jimmy and the four personalities of the Who. 
This is the genius which underlies the 
entire album. The development of the Who, 
a result of the synthesis of tts members' 
personalities, is characterized by the fusing 
A more complete statement of the four themes follws, and here the excellence of the production of the album stands out. There is a marvelous flow of sounds, producing aural magnificence. The sounds of the sea are heard again,and then we are plunged into an account of Jimmy's mad­ness. 
The song "Cut My Hair" has to do with the awkwardness Jimmy feels when trying to 
'follow the fashionsand styles of mod life. He canT exactly fit in here, but then he can't exactly fit in with the world of hisparents, either. The chorus electrifies the emotion; "Zoot suit-White jacket with side bents five inches long -I'm out on the street again and I'm leaping along -Dressed right for a beach fight -but I just explain -why that uncertain feeling is still here in my brain." 
"The Punk meets The Godfather" is one of the major thematic statements in the album. It is only in this song that Town­shend makes a direct statement, answering charges that he is nothing more than a leech on the energy of the people around him. 
The words to "My Generation" are here, but hardly distinguishable. It is a futile attempt to put on as the spokesman for a world that he would rather remain a part of, not apart from. 
"I'm One" is Jimmy's attempt to over­come his awkwardness and assume an identity with the mods. Failing this, he takes a "Dirty Job" and tries to find an identity in the common worlds. 
"Helpless Dancer (Roger's Theme)" is a direct rebellion against the world of "Dirty Jobs." Jimmy can no longer go along with the mindless steps of others, so he "stops 
dancing." In a way, the song is a statement of rebellion against absurdity, almost existential. 
Jimmy begins to realize the paranoia of being an outcast, and tries to reconcile this pain with the rebellion he feels in himself. Following this is a total rejection of everything he has been involved with. He is left with nothing, but this emptiness is better than the 1feeling of being stuffed with gar­bage. He decides to leave in "I've Had Enough", and strains of the fourthhand in the end the dominant, feautre of is per­sonality "Love Reign O'er Me" are heard. This part of Jimmy esists, but he will not recognize its existence because he is not willing to make the deep comn1ittment that it requires. 
The second record opens with "5: 15'": Jimmy is leaving his past and feeling the triumph of independence. The music of the album takes a change here, too. It has nre strength and exuberance, sounding much like ·Who's Next. · 
"Sea and Sand" expresses Jimmy's joy at 
finding he can lose himself in the chaos and 
confusion he finds on the shore at Brighton. 
In "Drowned", he begins to realize again 
the foolishness of fashion, but instead of 
rebelling he chooses to lose himself forever. 
"Bell Boy (Keith's theme)" returns us to 
the atmosphere of "Dirty Jobs", and once 
fred graver 
again Jimmy is forced to reconcile the rebelliousness of "Helpless Dancer" with the real world of "Bell Boy." In futility, h€ tries to make the connection between his personalities. 
The sounds of the sea appear again,this time with the rumblings of a storm in the distance. ­
"Doctor Jimmy", whichn includes the third facet of the personality, John's theme­"Is it Me'?", climaxes the action of the album in a violent binge on "leapers and booze." The worst, most vile sides of Jimmy are portrayed here in senseless violence which is reminiscent of the droogs in Clockwork Orange.. He begins to realize the anguish in himself and the mindlessness of his life in "Is It Me'?", and makes a last attempt to bring his life together. 
He steals a boat and heads out towards the rock, and we are brought back to the frame of reference we were given at the beginning of the album. "The Rock" is an in· strumental, stating each of the four themes again, and then bldnding them together into one piece of music. This one song epitomizes the highly passionate, emotionally exhausting, feverish genius of Peter Townshend. It is an understatement to call it a masterpiece. 
Finally, the storm breaks. Peaceful piano work, and the rumble of a tympani bring Jimmy to the final solution -the realization of and resignation to the love in his heart. In a way, it is a statement of death and rebirth. 
The scream at the end of his song is a total emotionalrelease, just as the scream was at the end of "Won't Get Fooled Again." 
A climactic buildup is provided by a screaming guitar, and the work is com­pleted. 
This is, without a doubt, one of the best albums of the last five years. It has few equals -perhaps Abbey Road, Sgt. Pepper, 1Arthur, or the Who's previous 
Tommy. · It is close to us, and therefore not only does it reflect a time, but may serve to influence it as welL 

dance and drama series -theatre of the deaf 
tom mcandrews and mike kulczycki 

The National Theatre of the Deaf will give a performance at eight p.m., Thursday, November 8, in O'Lauglin Auditorium at St. Mary's College. This unusual theatrical attraction is the second event of the Dance 
and Drama Series sponsored by the Notre Dame Cultural Arts Commission. 
The unusualness of the performance was summed up by Samuel Hirsch in the Boston Herald Traveler: "There are three speaking actors who say the words in close harmony with hand speeches of the deaf actors, and in an instant, you are drawn into their soundless world in a comfortable and fascinating companionship. It is so subtly synchronized, so sweetly tuned that the integration of spoken poetry and choreographed hand language is complete before you realize that you have been transfixed. Your concentration is as complete as theirs, and so is your delight." 
Such reviews were usual all over the 
world. In Rome, a critic wrote, "These 
excellent actors, touched by the angel of 
silence, bring us a fresh understanding of 
the inestimable value of words. Because of 
the reliance on source other than the human voice, actors are communicating with audiences with a kind of depth and intensity we have never seen before. This is happy, joyful work." 
A complany of fourteen actors use mime, dance, visual language, music, and narration in a new eloquent theatrical concert. The company's eleven national tours, two Broadway engagements and six European tours have earned those rave reviews. 
innocent abroad 

Thi& season's production, Optimism, is drawn from Voltaire's sardonic master­work, Candide, and illuminates the hilarious and harrowing misadventures of the eternal 
·innocent abroad in a wicked and hostile world. The work is directed by Harold Stone, with settings by Alfred Corrado, costumes by Fred Voepel and lighting by John Gleason. There is a full score on a beautiful and thrilling set of new musical sculptures designed and built for the company by Bernard and Francois Baschet. 

fledgling foundation 

The National Theatre of the Deaf, now in its seventh year, is a culmination of many years' work that began as a germ of an idea in 1958, when the drama, The Miracle Worker was in preparation prior to it_s long­run success on Broadway. Several government officials had long envisioned a theatre for the deaf. Financial support from the government was possible, but a university or a foundation was needed to sponsor such an organization. David Hays, the Broadway scenic designer who worked witrh the director of The Miracle Worker, became associated with the Eugene O'Neill Theatre Foundation (now the Eugene O'Neill Theatre Center) in 1964. At that time, plans for the company began to take definite shape. The fledgling foundation took the project for a theatre of the deaf under its wing and shortly thereafter, the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare awarded them a $331,000 three-year grant. The grant provided preparation for 
---------------------------------------------------------~ 
tours; on tour, the Company earned its own 
way. 
rare insights and emotion 
Among the government's reasons for financing the company were to bring better theatre to the deaf community, to create pride among the deaf by proving that they can contribute a valid art form of their own to the community, and to correct miscon­ceptions about these gifted people. But the National Theatre of the Deaf should not be confused with a threatre for the deaf. It is an eloquent and rewarding experience for both deaf and hearing audiences. The 
O'Neill Center's aim in this venture is purely 
artistic, while the government's is social. 
Yet, if the artistic aim suceeds, the social 
goals must follow. Hearing audiences have 
been visibly and audibly shaken by theiMirst 
encounter with this remarkable Company. 
If they came with the condescending in­
tention of seeing a performance by a well­
intentioned but amateur company of han­
dicapped people, they soon learned that the 
actors on stage were offering insights a11u 
emotions they had rarely experienced in a 
theatre. 
In its nine years of existance, the Eugene O'Neill Memorial Theater Center iri Waterford, Conneticut, which is the headquarters and home of the National Theatre of the Deaf, has been recognized as a major force in the development of new playwrights, new critics, new audiences, and new theatre forms. Those were the goals outlined in 1964 by George C. White, the Center's founder and president, as a living memorial to America's greatest playwright. 
bella lewitzky 
The National Theatre of the Deaf is the second of a series of events sponsored by the 
•Notre Dame Cultural Arts Commission's Dance and Drama Series. The next event is the Bella Lewitzky Dance Company, scheduled for Dec. 1, at O'Laughlin Auditorium. This dance company is led by Bella Lewitzky, described by Clive Barnes in The New York Times as "one of America's great modern-dancers," who is a major choreographer, a great dancer and E superb teacher all in one. Her dramatic power emanates from the strong impuls«* with which she approaches her craft, from the intensity within a strictly shaped form and from fluid, sensitive lighting. This company is a dance force that must be experienced. 
Second semester events being sponsored by the Dance and Drama Series of the Cultural Arts Commission will be highlighted by the appearance of the "greatest living pantomimist" -Marcel Marceau -but will also feature a unique "mini-series" -the American Character series -one man-woman portrayals of some of the greatest figures in American literature. 
This Thursday evening, November 8, the Dance and Drama Series brings the 
· National Theatre of the Deaf to O'Laughlin Auditorium for their performance of "Optimism." General admission is $3.00 with all patrons admitted free. (Patrons cards for admittance to all the remaining events of the Dance and Drama Series for $8.00 will be available at the O'Laughlin box office on Thursday evening.) For in­formation, call the Cultural Arts Com­mission office, 283-3797. 



r 
the observer TUesday, November 6, 1973
6

' 
Transcendental lecture scheduled tonight 
by Jack D'Aurora Staff Reporter 
An introductory lecture on Transcendental Meditation <T.M.) will be presented on Tuesday, November 6 at 7:30 in room U80'Shaughnessy. This will begin the fourth T.M. course held at Notre Dame this semester in response to the rapid growth of interest of students and faculty members. 
Carol Dixon, a T.M. teacher who will give the introductory lecture, describes Transcendental Meditation as "a simple, natural technique for the expansion of the conscious thinking capacity of the mind whereby the mind exp­eriences finer levels of the thinking process, reaching its full expansion in a state of pure consciousness, a state of deep inner silence and restfulness." 
"Research at Harvard Medical School and the Stanford Research Institute has indicated that during the practice of T.M., the 
Special weekend 

Pedtke honored by students 
Daniel H. Pedtke, the revered organizations on the campus, composer, former chairman of the "Dean" of the University of Notre joined with present members at an Music Department, and his Dame Glee Club members for 35 open rehearsal Friday afternoon selection as a fellow in the years before his retirement last before attending a reunion party in American Guild of Organists. May, was honored during a special the evening. A testimonial dinner was held for weekend of song beginning Friday The Notre Dame Marching Pedtke in the Monogram Room of on campus. More than 250 former Band, under the directioJn of the Athletic and Convocation members of the singing group Robert O'Brien, honored Pedtke Center Saturday night with en­returned for the event. during the halftime of the football tertainment by the Glee Club. 
Pedtke was incapacitated by a game with Navy Saturday when Weekend activities concluded heart attack and stroke shortly they played one of his original Sunday morning in Sacred Heart before his farewell performance at compositions, "Notre Dame, We Church when present and former the May commencement. His Hail Thee." A public address members joined with the place on the dais was taken by a announcement called attention to University Choir in songs at the student leader for this per­Pedtke's distinguished career as a 10:45 mass. 
formance, and he has since been 
succeeded by Dr. David C. Isele as 
director. 
Former members of the Glee 
Club, one of the oldest 
Meeting set to organize Red 

:ross blood drive 
for this month 
The Notre Dame· St. Mary's Red Cross Blood Program will hold this semester's first general meeting this Tuesday, November 6, at 7:00pm. Scheduled for Room lC, Lafortune, the organizational meeting has two purposes. 
The most immediate purpose is "to gather together everyone who wants to help out on this semester's blood drive," ac­cording to organizer Pete Meade. Fort Wayne's Chapter of The In­diana Red Cross will be super­vising the two-day drive, planned for November 29 and 30 (the Thursday and Friday after Thanksgiving break.) Donations will be taken at Stepan Center. Anyone who cannot attend Tuesday's meeting should contact Jack McKeon, at 8847, to ask questions and to sign-up to assist with the drive. 
A secondary motive for Tuesday's meeting is to introduce several·possible new activities for the campus Red Cross program. These include Standard and Ad­vanced Courses, Reading to the Blind, and participation in the Disaster Action Team. For more information on this phase 'of the program, those interested should contact Pete Meade at 3412. 
L.__ ____ 

. ···-----·--·· 
body achieves a level of rest at least twice as deep as the deepest part of sleep. The deep rest of the body allows it to throw off deep rooted tension which in­terferes with clear thinking, good physical health and enjoyment of life, " continued Dixon. 
"More recent research has in­dicated that with the very first meditation, the different hemispheres of the brain become synchronized and the brain wave patterns become coherent, bringing about a much more ef­fective and efficient style of mental activity and calmness," stated Dixon 
There are also ,other bEmefits from 'meditation: the ability to improve relationships due to a more relaxed state and feeliing of security, and the ability to im­prove one's spiritual life and mind­body coordination. 
The T.M. course will begin with the introductory lecture and will be followed by a preparatory lecture on Novem her 8, Both of thes1e are required for beginning students. 
• 111ibnl 
--~----·~ -------..­
The search. 

Some come to find meaning. Not only from the wise men with deep answers. But from the country itself with its ancient past and new spirit, and its people in touch with others and themselves. Some come hungry for India's beauty. The storied art and architecture. The pageantry. The incredible landscape. Some come here because it's different. Or because it's far away. Or because others come here. 
What are you searching for? We'll offer you everything to help you in your search. An incredibly low $475 round-trip fare from New York to Bombay or Delhi. Places to eat and sleep that cost less than anywhere (in India the dollar still goes 

.,,,,,,,.............,.,.,,,,,,,,,,.,.,,,.,,,,,,,, far and $5.00 a day isn't nostalgia, yet). Half fare on domestic air, and rail travel. Wholehearted hospitality. 
We've a Meet-The-People Program so that you can visit with ·an Indian family if you like. A Student Program to introduce you to Indian students on their campuses. But quite on your own you'll make friends, be offered help and understanding, get invited places. 
\Ne enjoy having you. For more information see your Travel Agent or contact us. The Government of India Tourist Office, by mailing the coupon to the address 
closest to you. New York, 19 East 49th Street. r-------------------,
Chicago 201 North Michigan Ave. I I. too, am searching. Please send me your brochure I 
' ' I tellmg me all about lnd1a. I 
San Francisco, 685 Market St. Also Canada. 1 ~ 
• I Name ~ 11
Ind1a. 1 -1 It's not just another country. : street N: It's another world. 1 City state Zip 1 
I I I My Travel Agent is I 
L-------------------~ 

The program continues Friday with individual sessions with T.M. instructors for personal in­struction. Instructional meetings will constitute the last three days of the course: Saturday, Sunday and Monday. 
This form of meditation is growing and becoming widely accepted. There are now 205 WorldPlan Centers in the US, one of which is in South Bend. 
The House of Representatives of Illinois passed a resolution ad­vocating its use in schools and in drug re~abilitation programs. 
T.M. has been incorporated in the Eastchester public school system of New York. The Governor's Office of Drug Abuse of Michigan has recognized it as a"necessary ingredient to every drug abuse education effort." 
The cost of the course is $45.00 for the students, with variations for adults and families. This money will be used to sustain costs since the T.M. Centerc; are non-profit organizations. 
The only requirement for the 
course is that any students wno use dope, including marijuana, are to refrain fom doing so for at least fifteen days prior to the first . personal instruction. According to Dixon, "Our experience has been that people who use drugs, including Marijuana, within this time limit are not able to 
HANCOCK RESEARCH NOTES 
120 North 8th Street Camden, New Jersey 08102 Telephone: (609) 365-7857 
24 Hour Mail Orders of Quality Material Complete With Bibliography & Footnotes Lowest Prices GUARANTEED -Compare & See SEND $1.00 for a Complete Listing 

SMC Karate and Self-Defense Club presents 
KARATE DEM_ONSTRATION 
6:30 p.m. 
Wednesday, Nov. 7 SMC Coffeehouse 
memberships still accepted 
experience finer states of thought." 
For further information contact either Rob Carsillo, President of the Students International Meditation Society (S.I.M.S.) at Notre Dame or the S.I.M.S., 226 E. Navarre St., South Bend (233­5603). 
'' 
Tuesday, November 6, 1973 the observer 

Lowenstein to speak on Nixon 
by Gary Allletta Staff Reporter 
Allard Lowenstein, political insurgent and a possible '74 senatorial candidate, will be speaking in the Keenan-stanford chapel Wednesday night at 8 p.m. Lowenstein will highlight the drive to impeach the president in talking on "Nixon's America." 
Lowenstein has been a political activist for a long while. In the early fifties, he founded th e National Student Association. In 1967, he ordganized the "Dump Johnson Movement" which figured in Johnson's decision not to seek re-election. He was also in­strumental in convincing Eugene McCarthy to run in the 1968 presidential election. 
During the past few months, Lowenstein has been listed among the top 10 on the White House enemies list because of his anti­Nixon activities. 
Ed Davey and Chuck Nay, who collaborated on arranging the visit, are hoping for a large student response. "He's an incredible speaker!" commented Nay. 
by Jelissa A. Byrne Staff Reporter 
Current social and academic events open to the total SMC community will now be posted on a bulletin board in the SMC dining hall. 

by Patrick Hanifin Staff Reporter 
The SLC yesterday amended the Student Bill of Rights to guarantee confrontation of witnesses and clarify the right to appeal. Ap­peals are now possible in cases where "abuse of discretion" and discovery of 'substantial new evidence' may have occurred. The committee also invited the Black Student Affairs Committee ·" send a non-voting representative t\; act as a liason on minority problems. 
The major changes in the student manual in regard to student rights in disciplinary proceedings require "access to the names of the prospective witnesses and the right to confront them openly at the hearing", and the "right to appeal final decisions to a higher· body if abuse of discretion or substantial new evidence can be demonstrated." 
Acareer in law­WithOUt laW SChOOl. 
What can you do with only a bachelor's degree? 
Now there is a way to bridge the gap between an undergraduate education and a challenging, respon­sible career. The Lawyer's Assistant is able to do work traditionally done by lawyers. 
Three months of intensive training can give you the skills-the courses are taught by lawyers. You choose one of the six courses offered-choose the city in which you want to work. 
Since 1970, The Institute for Paralegal Training has placed more than 500 graduates in law firms, banks, and corporations in over 40 cities. 
If you are a student of high academic standing and are interested in a career as a Lawyer's Assistant, we'd like to meet you. 
Contact your placement office for an interview with our representative. 
We will visit your campus on 
TUESDAV,NOVEMBER13 
The Institute for Paralegal Training 
235 South 17th Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103 (215) 732-6600 
Indiana y. Reg. #AC.0035 

Davey, a former Lowenstein aide, said that one of the reasons the Long Island politician agreed to come is that "he loves Notre Dame." Lowenstein, a Jewish Democrat, has a campaign staff from formed almost entirely of ND students which New Yorkers campaign marked by many "irregularities" on the part of his opponent. He challenged the election, a challenge which the court upheld for the first time in New York history. He lost in the new election, however, after his opponent staged another question campaign. 
Davey called Lowenstein "a common man with no pretensions. I've never met a man who loved his country more ... this will be the best speech of the year." 

have dubbed "the Irish Mafia." He was the Senior Fellow in 1970 and his address then was one 
CLASSIFIED ADS

which both Davey and Nau have called "the most exciting and emotional speech ever at Notre 
WANTED

Dame." In 1970, Lowenstein lost a 
Need 2 tix for Pitt game. Call 
Joe 3462.

congressional election after a 
RIDES WANTED Need ride to Pitt game Nov. 8

SMC posts events calendar 
or 9. Will share$$ adn driving. 
Bob 3451. 

"This bulletin board has been communication concerning social 
FOR SALE 

developed as a central information and academic events," said and publicity place for SMC girls to Peterson. 
MEERSCHAUM PIPES! Exceptional values, per.

find out what and when events To place notice of an event on the 
sonalized service. Catalog.

occur on ND-SMC campus,"' said bulletin board contact SMC Social 
PMP Co., Box 444, Gaither­
sburg, Md. 20760.

Denise Peterson, SMC social Commission's public realtions 
commissioner. commissioner, Michelle Skramft­
The Social Commission will post ta, at 4017 or 5123. She will post all the month's events on the board. events open to the total SMC "The calendar of events will be community. no events limited to kept current. Hopefully this will individual hall attendance will be 
WARM YOUR COCKLES

elinmnate the problem of lack of posted. 
with Dean Swift fancy Sniffing Snuff. Send name, etc. ofr free samples. Dean Swift Ltd. Box

SLC amends student rights 
2009 San Francisco, Ca. 94126. 
Brand new knee length topcoat +crushed velvet jacket. Both

to allowbroader appeals 
size 40. Cheap. Call 234-4961. 

The SLC acted on a request by Fischer fiberglass skis, 205 Dr. Lawson, head of the Black em., Mike McQuestion, 232-0540 after 5 .
Student Affairs Committee that a member of that committee be 
Panasonic tape cassette appointed to communicate the recorder, never out of box. 
views of black students since no Received as gift. Call Michelle 
5123.

black undergraduate was elected to the Student Board of Com­
FOR RENT 

missioners. Lawsons proposal was accepted and a representative will Rooms40dollarsmonth. Near. 
233-1329.

be selected soon. 
Most of this meeting yesterday All private 3 rooms up for was held in closed executive married graduate student. All session while the commitee 
utilities. Near Memorial Hospital. No rent in return for

discussed proposed appointments 
aiding parents to lift light·to the University and Appeals weight son and daughter to and Boards. The press was barred from wheelchairs. 232-9128. 
because of the personal nature of 
LOST AND FOUND 

the discussion and the names of the 
appointees are being withheld Lost scarab bracelet possibly at concert. Reward. 6916.
pending final decision. 
Lost '73 seinior ring red stone, initialsCAL Lost at O'Shag Nov. l. Reward. Doug 1028. 
?ERSONALS 
Your friendly neighborhood witch sends her love, and hopes to hear from you soon. 
NOTICES 
Morrissey Loan Fund can loan up to $150 at 1 per cent interest, 1 day waiting period. Basement of La Fortune. 11:15-12:15 Mon-Fri. 
TRAVEL! Take advantages of 
student  rates.  Talk  to  the  
specialists.  BOAC.  Group  
inquiries  welcomes  Call  

Clark, 234-2098 after 7 pm. 
SKI THE FRENCH ALPS, JAN. 3-11. DEPOSITS ARE STILL BEING TAKEN. CALL 6716 for further information. 
GRUDGE HOCKEY GAME TONIGHT: THE NOTORIOUS GRACE TOWER GORILLAS VS. THE PRIDE OF THE SOUTH QUAD--THE ALUMNI HALL DOGS. GAME TIME ll:15AT THE ACC. ROWDY, UNRULY , + OBNOXIOUS FANS ARE INVITED. IT'S FREE! 
If you have sex, you may have gonorrhea, syphilis, or both. if in doubt, check it out! Call 284­9781 or come: 9th floor county bldg Mon thru fri 8 am to 3 pm. Free, no appointments, con­fidentiaL bring a friend too. 
GOOD TIX FOR THE NOV. 11 TODD RUNDGREN CON· CERT AT MORRIS CIVIC AND NOV. 15 +16 PER­FORMANCES OF GODSPELL ARE NOW AVAILBLE AT THE SUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE, 2ndFLOOR LAFORTUNE, 11:311-5 DAILY. 


B the observer Tuesday, November 6, 19;13 
Eric Penick: trying to do it all well 
Where have you gone, Eric 0 enick? Where are those 100 yard ;;ames, those 1,000 yard seasons that anyone with your speed is o;upposed to have? There's Eric Penick running 85 yards against Southern California for a touch­down, just like he's supposed to, right? 
Not necessarily. 

"People expect a run like that," Notre Dame's junior halfback says. "But now, I don't want to know what people are saying about my running. I want to know what they're saying about my blocking." 
Penick rushed for 726 yards as a sophomore, and this season, the fans expected more. So did Eric. 
"At times I didn't feel I was 

carrying the ball enough, and I 
guess thllt showed in a lack of interest at times," he said. ".But last year I got a lot of running time because I didn't have a lot of skills. 
My responibilities have changed. I have to block more, be a more complete back so that the younger people in the backfield have a chance to learn --like I have. 
"I'm trying to become a com­plete football player," Eric says, "and I know I haven't achieved it yet. But now at least I know the right directoion." 
"That direction isn't only on the football field, either. Penick has some "blocking" he wants to do off the field, too. "I've always wanted to be a man to respect," syas Eric, "and for me, athletics has been a way to achieve better things, not only for myself, but for my family and other people, too." 
When Eric was youngster in 


3reg Corgan::::::::::::::::=:=:=:=:=:=======:::::::===========:=:=:=:=::::::::::::::::::::::=======:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:= 
Extra Points 
=:=:=:===:=:===:=:::::=====:=:=:=:=====:===:=:==============Coaches and Bowl bids 
The big names in college football, Ara Parseghian, Woody Hayes, .Joe Paterno, Paul Bryant, or John McKay for instance, are certainly those names which are in the public· eye, and upon which national attention centers. And indeed it would for these men are at the top. They do the organizing, they are responsible for how their team performs, and while they may get most of the glory after a successful campaign, they also
'· 
absorb most of the criticism at the end of a losing season. 
But lost in the shuffle are the assistants, and as any good coach will readily admit, they are as important as the players themselves. At Notre Dame they names of Joe Yonto, George Kelly, and Tom Pagna are far from obscure, but there are other assistant coaches who don't receive the recognition they deserve. 
They are worthy of such recognition because they are the men who most easily get to know their players, not only as athlet~s. but also as people. And they work at it. The good ones, like receiver coach Mike Stock, find that such attention rewards the player both on the field and Jff. 
"Coach Stock takes interest in me not only as a split end but also as a oerson," said Pete Demmerle. "He takes a genuine interest in all the ;plit ends. He knows what our schedules are, what we're majoring in, vhen we're having a big test,; he knows us outside of football as well, and 1s a result it makes it easier to play for him." 
It's no accident that coach Stock has such a philosophy because he feels tis one of his big duties as a coach. 
"We're trying to pay back people who helped us by helping those who 1re coming along now," offered Stock. "Of course we all have ambitions Jf becoming head coaches, and winning and losing means a lot, but it ioesn't mean everything. When these guys get out of here they have to go :hrough life just like everybody else, and we try to prepare them for this just as we try to prepare them for playing football." 
This is a refreshing attitude considering the fact that major college football has, in many places, become nothing more than a big business. 
When you notice the improvement of a particular player from season to ;eason, or from game to game, moreoften than not the assistant coach .viii have a lot to do with it. 
"Coach Stock has taught me quite a bit," added Demmerle, "He's aught me mostly about blocking. In high school I had caught a lot of Jasses, but when I came here I had no approach to blocking techniques, ind he's taught me all I know about it. He made me realize that Ihad to io it. Besides that, he has made us all aware of our assignments. He's :onstantly reminding us what our assignments are, and after a while it all Jecomes second nature so; that all you have to concentrate on is catching :he ball or making the block." 
Stock is just one of the thirteen assistant coaches that Parseghian has ~nd from seeing the team in action both in practice and in the games, it Jecomes readily noticeable that they all approach the job with the same 1ttitude. It's a tribute to the men themselves, and to the team, for the 1ssistant coaches are a key ingredient in what this year could very well Je a national championship team. 
The idea of a national championship this year is definitely a strong 1ossibility. Thosewhohave followed the team throughout the season have wticed definite improvement from game to game. At this point only the :>jtt Panthers, Air Force, and Miami stand in the way of an undefeated ;eason. Pittsburgh has a coach• in John Majors who may be Penn­;ylvania's answer to Rice's AI Conover. Only in this case, besides a Jrash, young coach, the Panthers have an offense that gained over 500 rards total offense against Syracuse last Saturday. And if the Irish are to mng on to their hopes of a major bowl appearance and a national title, hey'd better be ready. 
Speakirg of bowls, the bids will be out the 17th of November, and 1opefully it will be Alabama in the Orange Bowl. The logic behind this is ;imple,althoughthe manner in which events must occur is not. 
The winner of the Ohio St.-Michigan game on the 24th of November .vill most likely travel to the Rose Bowl. Ideally Michigan would win Jecause from here it looks as if Southern California (should they win the 0 ac-8 from UCLA), could salvage their season and beat the Wolverines. )n the other hand, they would have atoughertime with Ohio State. Should \labama remain undefeated they would most likely be ranked number me at this time, and should we beat them, it could be national cham­Jionship time. Penn State may be undefeatedhut1theywouldbe ranked JelowAlabamaor L..S.U. should the Tigers beat 'Barna, and a match-up Jetween the Irish and the Nittany Lions would be worthless. We're ooking far ahead, and the season still has better than three w~eks to go. 3ut the road to number one may be right through Tuscaloosa via Miami. 
Cleveland, growing up in a broken home that his mother supported, helping himself was all that really seemed to matter ---and all that seemed possible. "My mom always did the best she could," Eric says with obvious warmth, "and she always believed I could do better than I thought I could. She insisted I go to high school at Gilmour Academy. There were only five blacks in the school, and I was the only black on the football team. I didn't want to go." It proved to be the first step in the right drection. By the time he graduated, he was all-state half­back and Ohio sprint champion. 
"I was the star on the football team, and I had to adjust to the limelight," Eric remembers. "Football was nothing but one big end sweep for me. No blocking, no catching. I didn't even have any assignments. Just get outside and run. I didn't even have to know where the guards and tackles went on plays. When I came to Notre Dame, that was the first thing I found out because I was supposed to go with them." 
If his mom got Eric to Gilmour, Gilmour got Eric to Notre Dame. 
"When I was in tenth grade, the coach (Vernon Weber) took Dave Janasek and me (now at Pitt) to a Notre Dame -Pitt game in Pitt­sburgh," says Eric. "The first thing he pointed out to us was that the Notre Dame backs weren't that fast or that big. That was something I think coach wanted to impress in the back of our minds." 
Later at the Academy, one of his teachers, Brother Gerontius, gave Eric further encouragement about Notre Dame and was the first to write the school in his behalf. 
"Brother Gerontius really made me believe I could come to Notre Dame," says Eric, "but he died the summer before I started. He was a real Notre Dame fan, and I con­sider him my patron saint of football." 
Since coming to Notre Dame:, Penick has worked to beome more a part of the team and more a part of the University communitv. 
scored against Southern California," says Eric. "On my knees? I'm no hot dog. It wasn't just me who scored that touch­down. There were eleven people . participating, and youdidn't see all of them down on their knees 
shimmying around, did you? 
"That wasn't 85 yards towards 100, but 85 yards towards a touch­down for the team. We don't just say we're a team around here --we play like it. It's that unity that makes us a contender for No. 1 every year. 
"When I left Gilmour, I 
believed I could do things for 
other people too. Before Gilmour, 
I never realized I could even come 
to a school like Notre Dame. 
Dame brotherhood. That's why I like to talk to other student ­athletes who are thinking about 
Notre Dame. 
"This is a social world within itself, but there's a world outside just like it, too. Blacks say why should they go to Notre Dame ­there's not a lot of blacks there. Well, there aren't a lot of blacks outside, either. You have to learn to live with everybody, with all kinds of people. If you go to a segregated school, you always keep your own small feelings." 
Eric Penick's feelings have grown quite a bit-first at home, then at Gilmour and now at Notre Dame. That's why a block is so important to him. 

Keenan drops Howard 14-0 
by Sam Vannucci 

Over the past two years the black and gold clad Pittsburgh Steelers have become synonymous with rough and tough power football. On Sunday afternoon, Keenan's IH football team looked very much like the terrorizing brutes of the AFL Central Division beating Howard 14-Q. 
Could it only have been the replicated Steeler uniforms that inspired such devastating play? Maybe. More likely, though, it was the feverish emotions raised by playing in what sportscasters over the years have tagged a "Big One." 
The "Big One" Sunday was the preliminary Interhall playoff game between Keenan and Howard. Both teams were un­beaten and desired a chance to meet awe-inspiring Dillon for the Notre Dame Intramural footbll championship. Somebody had to lose and on Sunday it was Howard. 
As it turned out, the game was Parseghianburst into the end zone 
decided on Keenan's opening from 4 yards out. They suc­possession. Utilizing effective cessfully picked up the conversion running up the middle of Howard's points on a pass from John Golden defensive line, they mechanically to Gary Adamson to make the final marched 65 yards with Greg 14-Q. Faherty going the last seven for a touchdown. This time-consuming As impressive as Keenan's of­drive took all but two plays of the fense looked, the defense stole the first quarter. show. They completely destroyed 
Howard's offense often times Keenan added a second score forcing 4th and very long yardage late in the third stanza when Mike punts. 

The "D" not only impressed Howard and all the spectators but also Dillon's captain Mike Bireley. "Keenan has a real good defensive team. They'll definitely be the 
strongest  team we've  faced  all  
year."  
Consequently,  the  1973  IH  

football championship boils down 
·to this Sunday's 2 o'clock Cartier field battle between the black and gold of Keenan and Dillon's Big Red. 





