On The Inside 
Black House proposal defended ... page 2 Toohey sends amnesty letter ... page 3 

serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VII No. 76 Thursday, February 8, 1973 
B.A.'s draft letter for more security 
by Jim Gresser Staff Reporter 
Eighty-seven Notre Dame resident Assistants have called for action against increasing crime on 
eampus in an open letter released yesterday to the Notre Dame community. The letter, sup­ported by 82 per cent of the University's RA s, is a"plea for mutual cooperation in facing and solving this problem .. 
The immediate cause of the letter, according to .Jim Cavanaugh, the Pangborn RA and second vear law student who wrote it, were the robberies ~f the past two weeks. "Something's got to be done before somebody gets killed." He also noted that there was "never a rape or armed robbery except for the last two years." 
The letter calls for a larger, "more visible " security force without arming them. It also calls for better lighting on the campus. "Money should be no object to a school of our stature." 

student co-operation 
The letter stresses the need for student eooperation in many areas including "adoption of a less critical attitude toward our police." 
"Questioning suspicious persons who enter residence halls, elimination of crank phone calls to security by students, a generally more responsible attitude must be taken by us if we «'xpect the Administration to cooperate with us." 
The letter also suggests that certain action be taken on the hall level, "such as locking all hall doors except for main entrances after 7:00p.m." 
Cavanaugh said that it is "not the nature of the University to have the doors locked all the time" but added that the proposed plan would have a "deterrent affect" because of the inability to Pnter or exit without "causing a big scene." 

R.A. response 
Cavanaugh said that of the 95 RA's that were 
asked to sign the letter, only eight refused. The 
main objection to the letter was that it was "too 
sort toward the security police." Cavanaugh felt, 
however, that "if the letter was to critical, it 
wouldn't _get listened to." 
Most RA response was very favorable. An RA 
in Sorin Hall, James Cavanaugh, said that he 
hoped the letter would "stimulate a little more 
interest" among the student body. "That's 
where you'vegot to get it." He also hoped that 
students would take action and "do it on their 
own." 
Helen Gallagher, an RAin Walsh, said that the 
letter "Made a good point in that it is 
unrealistic to expect security to handle anything 
and everything. Cooperation is needed." 
"There must be some sort of caution about 
strangers in the halls," Gallagher said, without 
turning the halls into an armed camp .. :·we need 
a happy balance between concern for the 
property and safety of· the residents and 
hospitality and cordiality." 
Gallagher praised halls with card-lock access 
to the building. She also noted the advantage of 
the phone system used in Walsh whereby if 
someone wants to visit someone in the hall he 
must first phone the room. 
"Residents must take the responsibility for 
going down to meet their guests." She feels that 
this can be done without any "extraordinary 
inconvenience." 
Ca.vanaugh Hall RA Harry Haverkos said of 
the letter that "I don't expect that it will do too 
much." He cited the lack of funds as the main 
reason for his feeling. He added that if anything 
can be done, it "comes down mainly to the 
students." 
Grace Hall RA Pat Weber said that there are a 
number of steps that students can take and that 
it basically entails "simply being careful." He 
also feels that any improvements will require 
mutual activity on the part of students and ad­
ministration. "Both sides must open their eyes." 
The Hall Presidents' Council endorsed the letter at its weekly meeting Tuesday night. 
IIJJIIIJJIIIJIIIIJJJIIIIIJIIIJJJIJIIIIJIIJJIIJIIJJIIIJIIJIIIIJIJIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIII 
text of the 

R.A. letter 
We. the undersigned Resident Assistants of the UniversitY of Notre Dame, are deeply concerned over the increasing number of serious crimes which have occurred on our campus within the past two years. We are releasing this open letter to the Administration and Students of this University as a plea for mutual cooperation in facing and solving this problem. 
This is a time when action, not talk, is needed. We do not intend to let this pass over as a two week panic period, lor crime is a perennial problem of which, unfortuantely, we can never be completely free. However, we make this request to the University Community in hopes that at least much misfortune can be prevented, discouraged, and limited in terms of frequency. 
It is oilen difficult for us who are caught in the facuum of an educational community, Who are enveloped in either altruistic or career·minded motives, to realize that there indeed are dangerous people in our society. Whether or not these people compulsively act due to a sick mind or whether they act out of necessity, the fact that these people exist must be faced. Our "vacuum perspective" is compounded by the prevalent complacent attitude that "it can never happen to me." Certainly these views are not unique to our community at Notre Dame; we merely say let's face reality and do something. 
We feel that an armed police force is not the answer to our problem. While this might prove successful in a few in­stances, the long term repercussions of guns on a college campus obviously rule this solution out. But certain steps can be taken. Increasing the size of our security force, more patrols walking on the campus (i.e., a more visible securitY force), better lighting on campus-these are just a few measures which, while not drastic, would contribute to a more crime deterrent atmosphere on our campus. Money should be no object to a school of our stature. 
But the job is not all that of the Administration. Student 
cooperation is necessary in order fCir any moves to be 
usccessful. Adoption of a less critical attitude toward our 
police is an important step, but it doesn't stop there. 
Questioning suspicious persons who enter residence halls, 
elimination of crank phone calls to security by students, a 
generally more responsible attitude must be taken by us if 
we expect the Administration to cooperate with us. This is 
no joking matter-YOU may be next. 
In the period during the next few weeks before any con­
structive measures can be taken, we do not intend to sit idly. 
We are asking each hall staff (i.e., r.ectors, assistant rec· 
tors, and resident assistants) tomeet this week and deter· 
mine some temporary security measures that can be taken 
within each hall. Certainly people are not going to lock their 
doors and ask "Who's there" forever; this is not the nature 
of a university community. But certain constructive 
moves-such as locking all hall doors except for main en· 
trances after 7:00 p.m .--:ould be taken by each individual 
hall. People may complain of inconveniences, but in· 
conveniences must be tolerated if we expect to change the 
present situation. 
In cone I usion, therefore, we ask for improvements to 
begin individually on the hall level. This is the only way we 
can get any immediate action. Then by displaying a 
responsible and positive outlook, our Administration will 
have the ball passed to them. The responsibility lies on both 
sides. Let's not wait for more serious occurrences to take 
place before we make our move. 
!IIIIIIIHDIIIIIIHIIIIIIIUIIIIItnUIIIIIIRIIIIUIIIIIIIIDUIIIIIUIIUIIIIIIIIIUI 
Priorities Committee: 

4 task forces finish work 
by Greg Rowinski Staff Reporter 

The four task forces of the Committee on University Priorities have completed a semester's work, but no details of their work will be released prior to the completion of the committee's entire report. 
The task force studying the campus plant and facilities, chaired by James Daschbach, Associate Professor of Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering, has written its report. The other three have not completed reports. 
Fr. James T. Burtchaell, chairman of the Committee, said he had hoped the reports would be in before Christmas, but realized that members were also busy with other duties. 
The Committee as a whole will not complete a report before next fall, leaving open the possibility of working right through the summer. 
Burtchaell suggested that the Committee might work more efficiently during the summer when the members would not be occupied with other tasks. 
The four task forces will prepare reports to be presented to the twelve central committee members. They will then formulate their recommenda lions. 
The weight these recommendations will can:y "depends on how good they are," said Fr. Burtchaell. 
The enrollment task force is studying "everythng that goes with enrollment," ac­cording to its chairman, Fr. David Burrell, associate professor of theology and philosophy. The group he chairs is assessing informationg information provided by officers from the ad­missions and registrar's office. 
Minorities are represented on this group, which has held meetings every other week. 
"I think it will be a good report," said Fr. Burrell, who hopes that it will be written in a month. 
The academic disciplines task force is 

reviewing all the University's departments and 
fields. Using reports from the departments as 
primary sources, this group will outline current 
studies to try to determine the nature of Notre 
Dame. 
This force will view such problems as the 

allocation of resources and the appropriateness 
and costs of each area of study. Certain studies 
could then be expanded or dropped, according to 
Fr. Burtchaell, a member of this task force. 
The task force on research related to in­

struction is an "information gathering body", 
according to one of its members, associate 
professor of economics, Kenneth Jameson. 
This group is. investigating the relationship of 

research and instruction, to fine how the former 
works and its impact on the latter. 
Its main mode of investigation has been 

weekly meetings with personnel involved in 
these fields. The computing center and the 
library have been of intrest because of their 
combination of research and instructional ac­
tivities. 
Jameson sees a vital role for the data the 

group unearths, "Priority decisions have be 
community decisions. In that case, the type of 
information the task forces are gathering will be 
useful in allowing the community to understand 
and participate in the decisions," he com­
mented. 
The Committee on University Priorities was 

established in September by Fr. Hesburgh, 
President of the University. In creating it, Fr. 
Hesburgh noted, "No longer can every 
university hope to do everything that is good or 
desirable". 
This committee to study the present and future 

will present their recc,mmendations to the 
Academic Council and then to the Board of 
Trustees. ~ 
This committee divided into four task forces, 

with its twelve original members being split up 
and joined by other membembers of the 
university community. 
Fr. Burtchaell feels that the four areas into 

which the forces are directed are just a start and 
do\not provide a total outline for university 
priorities. But, he added, "these four are 
inescapable." 
the observer Thursday, February 8, U'73
2 



briefs 
(c) 1973 New Yorlt Ttmea 
Saigon-While the two commissions charged with overseeing the Vietnam. cease-fire spent another day in Saigon working out preliminary procedural problems, a sharp upsurge of fighting was reported in the central highlands. The Four-Country International Controt, Commission reportedly settled on English as a working language <ind decided to move the commission's headquarters. 
Belfast-Widespread violence erupted in Northern Ireland after gunmen ITred on a crowd of Roman Catholic mourners at a funeral procession for three members of the Irish Republican Army killed by British troops. Gunfire and explosions replaced normal activity in Belfast. where virtually everything came to a stop, leaving many to wonder if the province was approaching a complete breakdown of law and order. 
Washington-The House of Representatives voted to force the Nixon administration to spend $210 million in funds that have been im­pounded in the President's economy drive. The money, for a rural conservation program, is part of more than $8 billion in funds ap­propriated by Congress that the President has refused to spend. The measure to force the release of the conservation money faces a threatened Presider.tial veto. 

Dn campus taday 
3:15 p.m.-lecture, business and change: the challenge to tomorrow's leaders, n. w. "click" freem"n, rm. 122 hayes-healy 
4:00 p.m.-seminar, dissociative at­tachment, prof. george navaroff, conference room, radiation research bldg. 
7:00-12:00-mardi gras stepan center 
7:30 p.m.-slide lecture, india '73, kirshmandala, prof. walter spink, carroll hall, smc 
8:30 p.m.-meeting, jackson hole ski trip, Iafortune 
I 

9:00 p.m.-lecture, the art of duke ellington, rev. wiskirchen, esc, Ia fortune student center 
I 
I 



I ' Nickerson defends Black House proposal 
I by Bob JOhnson Staff Reporter
~ 
In an impromptu interview last night. Mike Nickerson defended the black position regarding the Black House proposal. Nickerson daimed that the column by Ob­s<>rv<>r Executive Editor Don Huane printed in yesterday's Obs<>rver was unfair, incorrect, and possibly slanderous to the proposal. 
In answering Ruane's charge that not enough evidence regar­ding thl' formation of a Black !louse was presenteat the SLC meeting, Nickerson said that "it is impossible to say everything in an hour and a half." He argued that more time is needed to discuss the proposal with officials, that it isn't something that should be jumped­into without consideration. Nickerson also feels that the availability of funds is not a problem. imd as far as he could see. the expenditure would not be unfair to the white community. 
Nickerson said that the Black llous<.' would serve as a social outlet for the blacks of the com· munity. lit• does not mean that the !louse" would be strictly be a ··party" house. but rather a place in which the cultural. academic. and community relations of Notre !lame and South Bend could be considerl'd. 
Nickt•rson feels that the charge of there twing no social facilities for blacks is fair, because the columnist had not taken these ideas into account. He stated that the facilities on campus are not exclusively white, but, with the majority of students being white, they have become white centered. Nic.kerson dismissed the Cultural Arts Center as being a "strictly academical and educational" center. and said that it wasn't the blacks' fault that other students haven't used it. Simply, the whites just haven't taken advantage of the center. 
Nickerson contended that at no time would the House serve as a center to improve parties. Rather, the !louse would serve as a place to relieve tension on the white community that has been fostered because of previous black parties. "Do you think we could get a party in somp other hall after the rob­lll'ries and other events that have taken place?" Nickerson asked. lit• stated that the blacks would only want the House to serve as a social outlet. 
Principally. he said. the Black IIoust• would serve as a community l"l'ntel"l'd house. involving the blacks of Notre Dame and South Iknct. Nickerson stated. "Notre Daml' isn't about to move. and South lknd isn't about to move. We would like to get involved with the South Bend community." 
This involvement would include a day-care center, a tutoring center. and a counselling center for young blacks in the com­munity. Nickerson also said that "it's i10t a separatist move, but rather an extension of-Notre Dame." He claimed that they clidn't want to hide their Notre Dame identity. He takes pride in hl'ing from Notre Dame, and said that the Black House would help alleviate the tension surrounding Notre Dame within the South Bend community. 
Nickerson also mentioned a freshmen orientation would be initiated. to help introduce fresh­tnl'n-to-be into the Notre Dame community. The House could also serve as a counselling service for Notre Dame and South Bend blacks. 
Nickerson stressed the need for black counsellors, especially at Notre Dame, saying that there are not Pnough black counsellors on campus to cope with the problems of blacks. lie feels that many proll!Pms are hidden because of the lack of black counsellors, and lwsitancy of blacks to talk to whites. Nickerson also discussed the use of the house to accomodate black visitors. citing the lack of rooms available to black visitors on campus and parietal rules as n•asons. 
In trying to establish the House, Nickerson added that the House would not be entirely funded by the llniversity. He stated that since the House would be of service to both the Notre Dame and South BPnd communities, it should be more or less a permanent fixture. The request for the House asked that the University buy the building, and that all other ex­penses would be incurred by the black community. When asked a bout security precautions, Nickerson replied that such questions would have to be ironed out. 
Concluding. Nickerson asked 
that the blacks be given thiS chance to show their interest in the problems of Notre Dame and South 
lknd  so  that  they  may  help  
themselves,  :south  Bend,  and  
Notre Dame.  

rThe Observ~r is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the L1niversity of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester ( 14 per year) from The Observer, L'ox Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame. Ind. 46556. 
We Solve Long Hair Problems 
long Hair can be a problem if it is not shaped properly. We will take 
the time to help you find the style that best 
fits your need. 

All Services By Appointment --Call Now 


HAIR STYLING FOR DISCRIMINATING MEN & BOYS 1637 Lincoln Wav w. Closed Mondays Phone 232-6~22 


The Winery 

Michiana's Only Wine Shop 

*Gormet Food *Cheese *Books *Wine Glasses 
2426 Lincoln Way West Mishawaka 259-9046 4 Blks East of Ironwood 
John J· O'Hanlon-Prop., NO '65 


STUDENTS 
West at hollle, still paralyzed 
by Kathy Hessert Staff Reporter 

Warren West. former Notre Dame student and victim of paralysis following a jump from the first floor of Cavanaugh Hall last April. remains paralyzed from the neck down at his home in Dumont. New .Jersey. 
\VPst suftered a broken neck and paralysis from the neck down n•sulting from an unconfirmed dan•. lie was taken to St. .Joseph's llospital in South Bend by Notre llaml' St•(·urity where he remained until the beginning of .June. New ,Jprsev (;overnor William Cahill thl'n l:lew a tnl'dical team to South B(•nrwhich brought West to Kessler lnstitutl' in West Orange. He n•turned to his home in Dumont at tlw t>nd of the summer. 
AskPd what the N D. student body could do to help. Mrs. West replied. "Remembering him is the best thing that you can do. Mail is always great:. it's food for thought." According to Mrs. West her son answers all his mail by typing with a stick in his mouth. 
Presently West teaches two SPnior religion classes every other clay at his alma mater, Saint .Joseph's Regional High School. The school is run by the order of Xavl'rian Brothers who have furnished a room in their rectory for West to rest between his dasses. 
Mrs. West said that for three \l"l't>ks out of the month her son's health and spirits are good but as is usual with paralysis and kidney \'ietims the fourth week is quite bad. 
JACKSON HOLE SKI TRIP MEETING: 
Thursday 8 :3 0 LaFortune (Sign-ups and Information) 
For Further Details Call 234-7245 
"It ~.:an't be prevented. All we t•an give him are antibiotics and lots of prayers." she commented. Wl'st sees a therapist weekly but they have noted that ther is no hope for his recovery. 
On Saturday West attends his first elass of a General Psychology course at Bergen Community College where he plans to enroll as a part-time student in September. llis plans are to continue teaching at St. .Joseph's High School. West would now be a Sophomore at Notre Dame. 
WITH MARDI GRAS CHANCE BOOKS 
turn in all money &unsold books to Mardi Gras--Stepan Center--this weekend.... 
Drawing is Sunday at 4:00 pm 

Toohey condemns Nixon stand on amnesty 
by John Rumbach Staff Reporter 

Fr. William Toohey, director of Campus Ministry, released a letter Wl'dnesday sent to President Nixon condemning the White House stand on amnesty. The letter calls on the President to reconsider his position. 
"Surely you must realize that there can be no honor in our present situation if we refuse to take the necessary steps toward n•conciliation-and one of those indispensible steps is respect for the conscience of young men who have made decisions supported by the Bible and Christian tradition," the letter says. 
Calling Nixon's comments on amnesty "truly amazing," Fr. Toohey says: "One seriously wonders how you reconcile this refusal of forgiveness with the word of God. 'And that is how my lll'avenly Fater will deal with you unless you each forgive your brothers from your heart' <Mat­thew Ill, 35)." 
Fr. Toohey was an early ad­,·ocate of amnesty. In an interview Wt•dnesday he said that he feels that now is the best time to push for amnl'sty. "During the war, no one t-ver thought about it," he said. 
Fr. Toohey feels· tht amnesty must be general, and retribution must be made. "We have to consider retribution to correct the wounds suffered by those in exile and prison. If guys returning from Viet Nam have benefits, what about conscientious objectors who have also contributed to the country by perhaps bringing a quicker end to the war'?" Fr. Toohey stated. 
5eeing amnesty as something deeper than the issue itself, fr. · Toohey feels that America is c~:eating exile groups. 
"This is all part of a pattern. Amnesty, abortion and the bom­bi:ng are a part of a syndrome of the cheapening of life," Fr. Toohey declared. 
"In amnesty cases, Americans must recognize that the law didn't respect the single conscience. We must realize that draft resisters acted in the Christian tradition which says that one must choose the higher law when moral and t'ivil law clash," Fr. Toohey said. 
Fr. Toohey has no unrealistic expectations about his letter to the President. 
"Perhaps the letter will speak to others so they will say that it is an honest sentiment. Perhaps they 

Fr. Toohey: " ...categorically denied forgiveness to those who... could not invovle themselves in a war they considered immoral." 
will say. 'I should write too,"' Fr. Toohey explained._ 
Fr. Toohey says that for am­nesty to come about, it will take a change of public sentiment especially from parents of Viet Nam veterans. POW families and disabled veterans. 
"I hope that Fr. Hesburgh is right-that amnesty will come next vear. but I can't see it in the near ·future," Fr. Toohey said. 


BaranoW"ski elected HPC head 
by Mike Kulczycki Staff Reporter 

Fred Baranowski. chairman of the Hall Presidents Council, sees the !lousing issue as the most immediate problem facing him in his newly-elected position. He hopes to direct the HPC in working with Dr. Philip Faccenda's committee on relocating displaced students from Farley and Breen­Philips. 
Baranowski feels the halls should be consulted through the IIPC. or at least asked for their opinions. He recognizes the power of Faccenda 's committee to ignore the HPC. but hopes at least for a ,·oice in making the policies. He acknowledged thet forcing people off-campus was "a real possibility" in meeting the problems of relocating Farley and Breen-Philips residents and fulfilling the freshmen allotments. 
If the HPC is consulted by Faccenda's committee, Baranowski said the council will trv to assist each hall. One possibility is that the HPC will provide each hall with lists of available off-campus housing. Baranowski stressed trying to sl'tlle the housing issue as soon as possible. He said, "the longer we \rail. the harder it's going to get. If the students make the decision to move orr-campus now. it will make it all l'asier." 
Serving as the Holy Cross Hall president since April 1972 , Baranowski faces reelct,vn this ,\pril and hopes to remain in office. Otherwise. he said it will be one of the shortest terms for a HPC chairman. 
Baranowski is a junior •inance major holding his first elective office. He said his work has been satisfying and the new Holy Cross Hall rector. Fr. Andy Sifferni, has been helpful in making things run Rmoothly. Baranowski centered his work within the hall on renovations and more facilities for recreational purposes funded by the Hall Life Fund. He said, "If you make them available. these facilities will be properly used." 
Besides the housing issue, Baranowski pointed out l'Ooperation with the Student (;overnment as another major goal of the HPC. He stressed he 

hates to be in the position of always asking Student Governmeni for money." 
did not mean to "bark" at the Student Government, but he "could see that things are basically going back to the halls." lie said of the HPC, with representatives from each hall, "It can be used as an instrument to respond to the students, and get hack to tReir needs more." 
Baranowski said the HPC and Student Government have been at odds through the year over financial matters. but once they iron out financial worries, cooperation will be easier. He did not agree with Butch Ward, former JIPC chairman. who suggested JIPC taking over some of the Student Government duties. Baranowski felt the HPC could not handle the complications of the Social or Academic Commissions. lie said "Our domain is in the hils. That is where we belong and where \\'l' Rhould stay. Our most effective \\·ork is right here." 
The HPC chairman is at­tempting to initiate one change with the Student Government. He said. ";I.e HPC hates to be in the position of always asking Student Government for money." He ex­plained the HPC never knew the source or amount of money for An Tostal from year to year. He would like to see apart of the Student Activity fee funded directly to the Hall Presidents Councii. Such a plan must pass through the Student Life Council, and is not forseeable for next year. This larger amount would guarantee the An Tostal funds l.'ach year and also be used for the Hall Life Fund. 
Baranowski' said the last im­mediate goal of the HPCis to carry out plans for the 1973 spring An Tostal. 
During his sercice on the HPC , Baranowski served on the Stay Hall Committee, studying the problems or the stay hall system, and the Finance Committee, Rtudying alternate methods of financing the HPC. 
SMC to reinstate Observer? 
By Steve Magdzinski Staff Reporter 

Two St. Mary's students, Janie 1\leagher and Gail Pocus, President of Holy Cross Hall, are heading a door-to-door drive to return the Observer to the SMC campus. The Observer stopped l'irculation at SMC earlier this week. 
The goal o(the effort is to obtain the $2.00 subscription fee from at least 625 students, bringing the total number of subscriptions to 1000. Three hundred seventy-five women previously paid the fee through the SMC Business Office. The Observer1indicated that unless Bo per cent of the student body suhscribed, circulation could not 

be renewed. 
Plans call for the hall presidents and hall representatives to go room-to-room in their respective halls. Pocus said she hoped the drive could be completed by next week. It began Tuesday night. 
The Observer is sorely missed on the SMC campus, indicated Meagher. She said many students had thought they had to pay the fee at Notre Dame, rather than St. 1\lary's. But whatever their reasons for not pyaing the fee, she said, students want the paper. 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
text of letter 
President Richard Nixon 
Ti1e White House 
Washington, DC 
Dear Mr. President: 

Your comments about amnesty at your recent press conference were truly astonishing. You categorically denied forgiveness to those who, because of conscience. could not involve themselves in a war they considered immoral. One seriously wonders how you reconcile this refusal of forgiveness with the word of God, "And that is how my heavenly Father will deal with you unless you each forgive your brothers from your heart" (Matthew 18,35). 
The matter goes much deeper than this, of course. In many cases there is not even a question of forgiveness in the first place. Those who, through discipline and strength of conscience, saw the 
Vietnam war for the evil it was surely have nothing to be forgiven. After all, they were the ones who in a prophetic way were telling the rest of us that it was our judgment that was faulty. As Bishop Patrick 
Flores recently stated: 
"Any may who says he can think of nothing more immoral than to grant amnesty in this situation has a grossI y distorted sense of values." It is no exaggeration to say that your recent comments have horrified millions of Americans. We pray that the power of the gospel and the for­thright statements of numerous religious groups (The American Catholic Bishops would be just one example) will prompt you to reconsider your position on am. nesty. Surely you must realize that there can be no honor in our P'esent situation if we refuse to take the necessary steps toward reconciliation and one of those indespinsible steps is respect for the conscience of young men who have made decisions supported by the Bible and Christian tradition. 
"I will give you a new heart and breathe a new spirit into you" (Ezechiel 36,26). 
Peace, (Rev.) William Toohey, c.s.c. Director of Campus Ministry 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
(THE OBSERVER.] 

Campus news· 
Thursday, February 8, 1973 
11111111111101111111111111111111111111111111111111111111Ill111111111111111111111111111111111111II111111111111111111111111 
Ca~npus honor 
The Committee on Campus Honor, commissioned by the Notre Dame Board' of Trustees last April, has requested members of the community to help them gauge the moral tone of the campus by submitting "reports" of incidents that have excited in persons either extreme anger or extreme praise. 
The following is the text of the letter requesting the reports. The letter has been sent to the faculty and will be read at classes this week. Its author is English Department Chairman and Honor Committee Chairman Dr. Edward Vasta. 


text of letter 
To the Notre Dame Community: 
The Committee on Campus Honor is studying the communal, academic. and moral realities which underlie the problem of honor at the University of Notre Dame. It began its studies in the Spring of 1972, when it was established by the Board of Trustees, and now has reached a point in its inquiry where it must ask the assistance of every member of the university community. 
The Committee is seeking to understand what kinds of actions are regarded by members of the community as morally reprehensible or morally commendable. For our study we need to collect incidents of any sort that have occured on this campus in­volving actions which, from a moral point of view, you regard as seriously bad or unusually good. Therefore we ask students, faculty. administrators, and staff to give us, in a short paragraph, a report of any specific incident you know to have occured, involving any person or group at Notre Dame, at any level, in which the actions were especially to be morally praised or condemned. 
Please sned your written accounts to the Committee on Campus Honor. P.O. Box 609, 310 Administration Building, or 356 O'Shaughnessy. Please do not identify yourself or the persons in­volved in the incident. The Committee is not conccerned with the acts of particular people, but rather with the scope of moral feeling on the campus. Please indicate whether you are a member of the Faculty. Administration, the Graduate Students, the Un­dergraduate Students, or the non-academic Staff. 
We need to collect all responses by Friday, February 16. They will be carefully studied and prepared for further steps in our inquiry. 
Cordially, 
Edward Vasta, Chairman Committee on Campus Honor 


THE OBSERVER 
Gardian Knat 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 

Thank You,
John Abowd Dan Thornton Editor-in-Chief Business Manager
NEWS: 283-1715 EDITORIALS: 283-8661 


Kindly 
Don Ruane BUSINESS: 283-7471 Joe Butler Executive Editor Advertising Manager Ed Ellill 
Thursday, February 9, 1973 



A Specialist 
The recent release of an open letter by the resident assistants of the University on the problem of security raises a few points that have been obvious for quite a while, points that are not, as many students have become, critical of the job security has done so far, but critical of a job done by two other levels in the 
University:  the Administration and the  
students.  
Optimizing  

The RA's, in describing various suggestions for improvement in security measures, conclude that "Money should be no object to a school of our stature." True; it shouldn't. But the problem now is not getting more money to Security, something that is fairly improbable with the budget already set, but using the money Security currently receives. Projects such as the time-clock for visiting cars are good as far as they go, but the events of the past two weeks prove that Security has to become more than mere streetcorner traffic cops. 
Director Arthur Pears admits that the more ideal security-guard is currently out of the question, for Notre Dame is not in a position to offer the benefits of a municipality to its officers. So we must make do with what we have. 
And the best way to find out how we can optimize what we have is to call in an expert, a systems analyst, to evalutate the situation. 
After studying the security set-up as it currently is, he can make the ap­propriate suggestions that would provide 

Letter 

Editor: 
This letter is mainly addressed 

to Dr. Faccenda and the recent 
rliscussion in the past week con­
l'Crning the issue of forcing the 
nwn to mov~ off-campus. In my t-stimation. this is not fair to any Notre Dame male who wishes to stay on campus. Primarily hecause this University has never l'ondoned off-campus living and has also done nothin2 for these students except as .John Abowd' stated. "give them back their 50 dollar room deposit fee." Now the issue has changed--the University W<lnts these people to move--and the answer should be, "if we move oil. then help us out." In other \rords. get the directory for them of available housing, set up a food l'o-op and by all means, Jet these people know that Notre Dame eares about them. Notre Dame's administration should take a hand in the acquisition of some sort of agreement with landlords so that the rents won't be so exorbitant. This should and must be done since the administration is forcing these nwles off-campus. 
There should be no lottery-­grade point average shouldn't be the decision factor as to who goes-­some other method should not be used iether. The main item here of eourse is the recent occurrence of eo-t•ducation at Notre Dame and the shortage of beds caused by the mt•n who had to leave Badin and Walsh halls, and now must leave Breen Phillips and Farley halls, and be relocated. These men 
for the "more visible" security force described in the RA letter, and the more 
efficient  security  force  that  Pears  is  
lacking.  ......  
The  best  part  of)  this  is  that  the  

university has suc!Yexperts in its own backyard, so to speak. Both the Management and Economics Depart­ments have qualified systems analysts who would accept such a challeng~. 
And on the Other End 
The second level of responsibility recognized by the RA's is that of the students' cooperation with the Security Department. They call for a "less critical attitude towards Security," something that will probably take awhile to come about. But something must be done now, and the best place to start is in the halls themselves. 
Students must begin to realize that to have a security force that is effective implies that a fews certain rules must be enforced. The simple naivity that Security will handle everything without measures that will inconvenience or restrict students must be set aside, and be replaced with a serious determination to join security in a common fight. An effort must be made. 
And that effort must work three ways: on the part of the students, the ad­ministration, and Security itself. Only then can Notre Dame have real security. 
definitely should be promised a bed on eampus and so should every other male here at Notre Dame if he so desires. The answer that I eame up with is one that I think should be considered. The answer to me (which is probably too late now but not too late for next year) is to get a definite confirmation each year by a certain date from every male as to whether he will stay 'on campus or move off. This should be done before any senior in high school male is accepted to this University. Why~ From the empty beds left by the seniors and 
when  alL  the  other  men  are  
relocated.  take  a  count  of  the  
Pmpty beds for  men.  Then this  

number should be the quota of men 
daanesbury 

Joseph Abell 
...on housing 
to accept for the next year's fresh­nwn class--if it's the same amount as girls to be accepted then finally that one-to-one ratio in the fresh­man class will be reached and there will truly be a co-ed class here at Notre Dame. Maybe we can't do it but something has to be done because I don't think it's fair to force any guy off campus if he doesn't want to go. 
Kris Anhut 237 Walsh Hall 
P.S. Overcrowding is not the an­swer either--like what happened this year. I'd rather see a smaller freshman class than an over­crowded one. 
Love lost, such a cost, 
Give me things that don't get lost 
Like a coin that won't yet tossed 
Rollin' home to you. 
-Neil Young 
Theology has never been my forte, and few of us would argue that the divine discipline has ever been the strong suit of this publication. However, it has long been my desire to write a column coming out in favor of God. Now this may seem mildly absurd at first, but if we consider that the deity is alto· rm tely reviled and impersonated by Kings, authors, prime ministers and even student body presidents, we may get some conception of how depressing it must be to be God. He certainly might benefit somewhat from an occasional salutation by the rabble. 
But before actually doing this let me explain the source of such eccentricity. Many of us, at one time or another, have "marked" paper currency, usually dollar bills, in order to recognize the money should it ever return to our hands. This "marking" takes various forms. from executinga.slight tear over George Washington's eye to printing names, phone numbers, or passwords along the border of the bill. 
I had never done this until about this time last year, when out of mere curiosity, I scratched my initials on a Kennedy half-dollar and subsequently spent it. I chosP the half-dollar for reasons: first, the dollar bill, the ordinary medium for this sort of experiment, is com­mon and too often marked to suit me; second, not being wealthy, I had no larger bill; and third, halves are the dearest and rarest of our coins, and thus the most amenable to my purpose. 
For one year I waited, not ferociously, but with enough interest that God should know that I was concerned about the matter. After all, my initials were and still are on that coin. 
About a year after I released this coin into circulation, it returned to me, quite unobstrusively, as change with something I bought in South Bend. It was battered somewhat, and had been ill protected against the rigors of society, but to my surprise, the initials still showed clearly through all the nicks, dents and scratches. 
My first reaction to the sudden appearance of my coin was to clutch it. to somehow preserve it, to remove it from circulation. But then, I considered, this Kennedy half has perhaps been around the world since I last held it. Its travels may have transcenced northern Indiana and may have reached Chicago's Old Town, New York's Village, Europe's quaint chateaux, or even the hellish jungles of Georgia and Alabama. To remove such a piece from circulation seemed folly. In any case. after holding the coin for a few days, I lost it for some unknown reason. 
Today. I'm merely thanking God for bringing my coin back to me, if only for a day or two. I certainly hope it will return again sometime, because, after all, it still carries my initials. Perhaps I shall even be able to keep it the next time. 
Despite the arguments of my behaviorist friends, I really believe God helped me out with my Kennedy half-dollar. I return the favor by thanking him <after all, what can one give the God that has Pverything). And if anyone should recognize in his hands that bettered eoin bearing my initials, please spend it quickly, as I would definitely like it back someday soon. 
the observer 
Managing Editor: Joe Abell 
News Editor: Anthony Abowd 
Editorial Editor: Jerry Lutkus 
Features Editor: Beth Hall 
Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson 
Associate Editors: Bob Higgins, Ed Ellis, Maria 
Gallagher 

Special Projects Editor: Dan Barrett 
Night Editor: george lund Ass't Night Editor: Art "Sunshine" Esposito Design: the above two Day Editor: Tom Drape Picture Man: Jerome Phillips Sports Night Editor: Vic Dorr Computographic: Dave "Bullet" Barry Typists: John Flannigan (one-half hour's worth!). Steve Roper, Barb Norcross, Moshe Anastasoff Ad Specs: Rich Nauman Ad Layout: Dave Erba Night Controller: Howard Halle 
Editorials printed in The Observer reflect the opinion of the writer on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial comment. 

-aarry trudeau 
r­
Thursday, February 8, 1973 the observer 

5 
Letter• Ta A Lanely Ciad 


the wasteland 

hand, It's them pills I took, to bring it off, she want to say something that I am not positive And puts a record on the gramophone. said ... is true: that the pill and the permissibilityThe chemist said it would be all right, but of abortions encourages promiscuity. But I I've never been the same ... do want to say I fear the events in the lives 
The horror of the scene, of course, is that of people I love when those events sound a the sexual act--intended to be an ultimate lot like the scenes from the Wasteland. expression of love; and sometimes, the I know a colleague who teaches at a In the Wasteland, nothing grows; source of life--is, in that typist's apartment, Catholic school in the East. It has happened everything sickens and dies. The land is as passionless as the mechanics of the several times, he ~said, that girls came to under the curse of drought; the rain is gramophone. I will leave it to lovers to him, asking for time off from school or the needed, but it does not come. As rain is describe the blisses and joys of trysting; but postponement of assignments. Their ex­lacking from the life of nature, so grace is even celibates have heard of the excellent cuse: they were planning a weekend absent from the lives of men. All human arrangements by Omnipotence in the abortion. What offended my friend the most actions are doomed to frustration and 
planning of human intimacy; and lovers are was not the ethics or moral choices of perversion; and sexuality results in sterility
expected to respond to each other with women who are free, after all, to make their and death. In the mountains, the sound of something more heady than a yawn. I own decisions; what offended him was the thunder is heard, but still the rain does not 
wonder how much excitement is left in sex casual mood of the announcement, which come. for a twenty year old girl who, through her seemed to assume that my friend was quite In our own day, the poetic images of the ­mother's care, has been on the pill since she willing to be an accomplice to an act which Wasteland are becoming our kind of reality. 
was sixteen? And if you tell me lots, I'm he considered life-denying and reprehen­The air and the wind are poisoned, and the still not impressed. I recall a young man sible. rain, when it comes, is full of death. The 
who once came to see me, wanting to borrow Abortions, it should be clear, are pot earth is diseased from chemicals, and the money. A girl had come to visit him over events that I am willing to support with seas have become dangerous from our the weekend, he said; no one very im~ enthusiasm, or with mortages on my modest pollution.. portant. just a chick he had once dated in (hah!) claim to wealth. I have known In our cities, there is the moral sickness of high school. On Friday night, they had women, married and single, who have made our Forty-second streets whose images are started on a drunk together, and spent most the decision not to carry a child. I regret 
more distorted than anything T.S. Eliot has 
of the weekend in bed. Considering the their decision, but I am not their judge. I to offer. rhythms of the menstral cycle, he said, have been close enough to the fear that The ultimate sickness is in ourselves, if there is no way that the girl couldn't have couples face at the news of an unwanted we live without grace; or if we have gotten pregnant. Pregnancy would be a baby. so that I don't want to be anybody's programmed our passions to be a~ nuisance, he said, when you consider the judge. God knows how shabbily I might automatic as gramophones, and WE 
expense. That was why he needed the behave if their circumstances became my mutilate our bodies with sterility, likE 
money: to cover the expenses of an own. toothless women talking in a pub.
operation, if it were required, in a hospital My_concern in this essay is over the moral of New York City. My own reaction? I and spiritual climate of a country where Here one can neither stand nor lie nor sit wanted to throw up on him. people are completely relieved, by There is not even silence in the moun­
medication, techniques, devices, and tains operations, of responsibility for an act that But dry sterile thunder without rain You ought to be ashamed, I said, to look should be performed with the fullest com­There is not even solitude in the moun­so antique. mitment of one's energies. I know that tains I can't help it, she said, pulling a long morality operates at a higher level than that But red sullen faces sneer and snarl face, of fear over unwanted pregnancies. I don't From doors of mudcracked houses ... 
What are the roots that clutch, what 
branches grow Out of this stony rubbish? Son of man, You cannot say, or guess, for you know 
only A heap of broken images, where the sun heats. And the dead trees give no shelter, the 
cricket no relief, And the dry stones no sound of ·water ... I will show you fear in a handful of dust... 
--Eliot's The Wast!-!land 
For some time now, I have been living in a mood of the mind haunted by images from the landscape of a wasteland. Eliot's poem has become for me a prophetic vision of the events in other people's lives that touch my own life with horror. I have known of the violet hour that brings the sailor home from sea. the typist home at teatime, to be visited by the small house agent's clerk, upon whom assurance sits like a silk hat on a Bradford millionaire: 
The time is now propitious, as he guesses, The meal is ended, she is bored and tired, 
Endeavors to engage her in caresses Which still are unreproved, if undesired. Flushed and decided, he assaults at 
once: Exploring hands encounter no defence; llis vanity requires no response, And makes a welcome of indifference 
When lovely woman stoops to folly and Paces about her room again, along, She smooths her hair with automatic 

January of 1973 
Let this pedce be a compact of silence. Words like honor have all bled to death, quite beyond some quick transfusion. But if our best words are all casualties that land will yet live. Keening women have planted their fields in corpses-­to be resurrected in flowers, in rice. 
Let this peace be a compact of silence. llt>ar an empty shell-casing scoop rice, and frogs splashing in ten-thousand new pools. and birds singing still in the dead trees. A young widow's cries announce her new son. Silence grows through our words like the grass. 
--Patrick Callahan 

-
~ 
--J 
.. 6 
the observer Tuesday, February 6, 1973 
Campus roundup 
Security escort now available for women 
by Mary Egan 
Staff Reporter 

Small groups of girls walking the campus at night may request an t>scort for their protection from ('ampus Security, according to Securitv Head Arthur Pears. 
Any group of as few as three JWrsons may receive a walking st>curity pscort by calling the Sl'l'Urity office fifteen minutes lwforehand. Pears explained. A man will meet them and walk "not lll'cessarily with them." but 1wrhaps behind them. just "so that thev know he's there," the security chit•f said. 
l't>ars said. however. that it was not practical to provide escorts for girls walking alone. "It would be practically impossible to get an Pst·ort for l'very girl," he ex­plained. 
J>pars said that the policy of providing escorts on request has 

-
hl'Pn in effect since last year. The l'l•quest for security escorts this ,·ear came from Lewis Hall. not i~adin or Walsh. according to l'l•ars. 
Asked if the service would also lw available for men, Pears rt>plicd. "Yes. if they are afraid to walk across campus." 

St. Mary's students may be t•scorted to the bus stops, but not to their campus. 
An l'scort will also meet women at the parking lot. ir they call ahead for one. Pears added. Students may request the service at the Eastgate guardhouse if they wish. 
ND student 

in auto crash 
by Maria Gallagher Associate Editor 
A two-car accident at the in­terscetion of U.S. 31 ;111d St. Mary's Hoad sent a Notre Dame student and two South Bend residents to 1\lemorial Hospital in SouthBend late Tuesday night. 

Halph Landers. a sophomore at Notre Dame and Grace Hall lh'sident. was shaken up but suiTerPd no apparent injuries. He ,,·as taken to Memorial Hospital for x-ravs. which proved negative, and was rdeased. 
Alan Knox, an Indiana 
llnivPrsitv student driving the second citr and Bill Shaefer, a· passpnger in Knox's car, suffered facik cuts and were released from 1\lt>mm·ialllospital aftr treatment. Both are South Bend residents. 
An evewitness to the accident reported that a blue 1965 Mustang drivl'n hy Knox passed him traveling southbout at ap­proximately 40 miles per hour, going through the light as it l·hanged and slammed broadside into the hlack I!J67 Mustang driven h~· Landers as he attempted a right turn from St. Mary's Road. l.andpr's car overturned from the impal'l. 
TimP of the incident was ap­proximately 12:40. Roseland and St ..Joseph County police were on tht> scene as wt>ll as firemen. The road was deared and traffic was moving normally again about an hour after the accident. 
Waddell talks on 

Third World 
by Tom McKenney Staff Reporter 

"The problem facing the Third World is the omnipotence of !•:astern and Western cultures." This was the essence of a lecture given last night in Carrol Hall by llr..Jack 0. Waddell. Chairman of the Anthropology department at Purdue University. Dr. Waddell spoke on the subject of "Third World Peoples as Brokers in in­terpreting and changing American <'ulturc. '' 
Dr. Waddell. who did his un­dPrgraduate work at the llnivPrsit:.· of Kansas and was in 
post -graduate programs at both the University of Texas and the llniversity of Arizona, said that the \'Pry term "Third World" was transcendental and hard to work with. lie defined the third world as one made up of small emerging emmtries, persons economically, soeially or politically denied, who experience a disjuncture with the larger culture. 
Americans are generally con­sidered to be in the First. or WPstern World. but Dr. Waddell pointed out that this may not be the ease for blacks. women or homosexuals. Such persons live outside the predominant halls of rult un•. 
Dr. Waddell compared the members of the Third World with the Centaurs of Greek mythology. These half-horse. half-man rreatures were denied recognition from the Olympian culture. 
At present. the Third World is l'oming up with persons to mediate the cultural differences between itself and its two counterparts. Tlwse persons are the "brokers" for people living outside the predominate. cultural systems, according to Dr. Waddell. 
With the advent of the Third World broker. the traditional l'Uitun•s of the East and West may find themselves in reverse roles. They will be subject to the lTitil'isms of this newest cultural ;u·ena. 
Dr. Waddell stated that, until now. the East and West have dealth with the Third World under the illusion of their own om­nipotence. This omnipotence directed Eastern and Western minds into thinking in terms ol minorities. The American manifestation of this phenomenon is our country's history of sub­jugation and absorbtion of minority groups. 
Dr. Waddell suggested that the fril'tion between the three distinetive cultural worlds might hl• averted with the formation of a single cultural world that would be better suited for accepting the l'hanges that it might encounter. 
Dr. Waddell's lecture was the fourth in the American Cultural Srene series at St. Mary's College. This particular presentation was sponsored by the American An­thropolotical Association in con­twction with its visiting lecturer· program. 
Council adds four more 

The University Academic 
Council Wednesday voted to add 
four more elected faculty, bringing 
its nwmbership to 27 ex-officio 
administrators, 33 faculty and 7 
students. 

The action came after rejection 
of a proposal that m~mbership be 
reduced to 41 persons and the ratio 
of elected faculty to ex-officio 
nwmhers be increased from its 
l'urrent 50-50. The dicision to in­
l'rease membership means a new 
total of !i7, instead of 63. 

To improve communication 
between the Academic Council and 
Food sales sho'W profit gains 
by Tom Drape Staff Reporter 

The only competition the Huddle encounters on campus besides the pay cafeteria are Hall food sales operations. A recent sampling of such operations shows a growing tl'(•nd toward a profit sharing pl'rcentage base between hall and proprietors as well as little dissatisfaction within the hall. 
As Flanner president, Mike Matranga, points out. "You'll find ~·our hassling over a nickel or so anywhere on campus." 
The profit sharing percentage usually found is 60 percent to the ball and 40 percent to the proprietors. St. Ed's is one of the 
-
remaining halls which does not employ a percentage return to the hall, as of yet. A profit sharing base will be established next year according to St. Ed's president <;reg Thomas. 
The choice of proprietors varies from hall to hall. An almost equal distribution between appointed and elected proprietors exists with a slight edge toward appointed proprietors. A screening system is usually employed through the hall councils. Most halls, according to their presidents, are not plagued with applications. 
Grace. which is the site of the most lucrative operation on campus is possibly in for a radical ehange. "We're making a lot of money" says President Kevin <;riffin. "Things could be worse, but also better." he said. 
A !i0-40 percentage split and hall rouncil elected proprietors are methods used at Grace. But <;riffin feels that a larger share should come back to the hall because of the volume of business transacted. The profits at Grace, and most halls, is used for hall activities. 
"When I came in as a freshman, the percentage was 40 hall and 60 proprietors. Last year it was 50-50. 
(continued on page 7) 
SALfPRICE YOU SAVE



MID· 

YAMAHA ALL 
$98.00 


s24so

AROUND 1.....

SEASON 

YAMAHA All 


s22oo

AROUND II .•...• YAMAHA ALL 

SALE 
s31so 

AROUNP Ill .•• -•. 
(All with Salomon 444 Bindings mounted) 
Mon. thru Fri. 12 to 8 Sat. 10 to 5 

113-IIIIIE WAY IO.IIIOSWID 
Between Party Shoppes and Big C Lumber PhOne 2"72-384~ 
the r,aculty Senate, the Council voted to have each College Council designate one of the faculty nwmbers elected from the College to the Academic Council as an ex­officio member of the Faculty Smate. The Council also gave the Faculty Senate formal access to its agenda by insuring that academic recommendations of the Faculty Senate will be place on the Council's agenda after referral to its executive committee. 
In other actions. the Council 
Added a sophomore, appointed h~· the president in consultation \rith the Student Body President, to the University Committee of the Fn•shnian Year of Studies. 
Added a student. appointed by the President. to the Faculty Board in Control of Athletics. 
Eliminated the Advisory 
Committee of the Computing CPnter. since the Center is no longer an academic institute and does not grant degrees. 
''My Fair Lady" scrapped for now 
NO's Social Commission will show 
the movie Mary Queen of Scots 
instead of My Fair Lady because of 
a booking problem with the 
distributor. said Mike Whalen, a 
member of the ND-SMC Columbus 
f<'ilm Group. 

The movie•. will be shown free of 
l'harge as a Valentine's Day 
present by the Social Commission 
in the Engineering Auditorium at 
i::~o p.m. and IO:p.m. this Wed­
nesday. 

~----------------­
Tow, Rental, Lesson 
Swiss Valley , Mish. Pay by Feb. 14 Jim Sullivan Rm. 1028 For Info Call 272-8158 NSH 

The Paul Winter Consort 
February 24 at 8:00 O'laughlin Auditorium Tickets available at S.U. Ticket Office A few Neil Young tickets still available! 

Find out how easy it is to send the right flowers the FTD way. Drop in for your FREE Selection Guide. Wherever you see the famous FTD symbol. (Or write FTD, 900 West Lafayette, Detroit, Michigan, 48226.) Most FTD Florists accept major credit cards. 
•As an independenl businessman, each FTD Member Florlsl sets his own prices. © 11173 Florlsls' Transworld Delivery Association. 
~-.:­
··'t"·· 

----~ 
~------~-~------­
... 
Thursday, February 8, 1973 the observer 
7 
Ward: HPC about to realize full potential 
by Tom Mirabito Staff Reporter 

Hetired Hall Presidents Council 
. Chairman Butch Ward said today that during his chairmanship of the l'ound the group came close to realizing its potential and that with more support from students it can become an even greater force in alliars of student life. When asked what the Hall Presidents Council had done in the past ~·ear Ward felt that it had \wiped to initiate some thought in n•vising the structure of student ~ovcrnmcnt. that the council had :11so realized that they were the most representative form of student government on campus 
and that there had been a revision in the use of student activities fee so that students saw more of the money and where it was being used. 
Ward felt that the HPC had come closer to realizing its potential because the presidents on the council were able to see that since the hall is the primary source of social activity at Notre Dame the IIPC was the most representative student government available to the student. 
"Students have become un­derstandably disinterested in Student Government because its popularity has slipped con­siderably in the eyes of the students." Ward stated this as being the biggest frustration he had to contend with during his eha irmanship. 
Ward felt this was ture because most of the problems that students have to face, such as drinking, parietals, and co-ed dorms are centered in the halls. He then went on tosay that since most of these problems deal with the halls, the presidents representing the respective halls became the most login! and best equipped people to deal with them. 
Ward said, "Most students have a mistaken concept of the HPC. They feel that if the HPC got in­\'olved it woulJ hinder arty progress made by student government. I feel this is wrong. I believe it would help Notre Dame become a better place." 
Ward also felt that the failures of the HPC outweighed the successes the HPC had because most of the council's accomplishments could not be seen by the students as concrete. Instead Ward said that, "This year the HPC was closest to its . intention because the hall presidents came together as a discussion group and helped to unify the groups and in so doing help to start to unify the campus." 
liP also felt that the HPC got together to solve campus-wide problems instead of concentrating on the problems a single hall may t>ncounter. 
Overall Ward felt that his job had been an interesting one but he also questions the ability of any person being able to accomplish anything as long as two student government bodies remain on l'ampus. 

"Notre Dame is basically run through a hall systen of govern­ment. therefore I feel the HPC is potentially the best form of l'ampus government available to the _students." Ward finished by saymg that he hopes future HPC chairmen realize this potential and work to bring more influence under the watchful eye of this organization. 
Holllectures on role of Jesus in the Church 
by George Brown Staff Reporter 

The Catholic Church used Jesus Christ as a means to temporal power in the Middle Ages but now identification with "the real .Jesus" is the prevailing mode, author Adolf Holl said last night. 
Speaking on the phenomenon of political power in connection with .Jesus, Holl. professor of Hl'ligious Studies at the University of Vienna, lectured yesterday before 150 people in the library auditorium. 
Holl . described a process he termed de-edification, by which a mass of people subjected them­selves totally to the glorified Christ hut without identifying with him. ··with the de-edification of its founder. the western chu~ch lwcame the most significant force in the political world between 1200 and I:lOO." 
lloll emphasized that de­edification allowed King Henry of England to legitimize a link bet-ll't'en temporal and spiritual power using Christ the King as the guarantor of temporal dqminion transferring stability to Henry's reign. 
"The more remote Jesus grew through time, the higher his throne was. 

allowed to stand on their own two
wasplaced, de-edifying him from Within the ego religious type, no feet with all the priveledges ofhis people," Holl said. Martin dear cut system of rules and 
sons. His image is shown as that of
Luther began a movement to see heliefs are set as dogma for ab­the crucified Christ," he said..Jpsus not as a lordly figure but as solute acceptance. "Instead of an image of reality. For this, he slaves of God. all are sons of God. 
way excommunicated. Luther's act.ions eventually paved the · way for a transformation in modern times that is now coming to an end, a transformation that was between two opposing types of religious forms. 
!loll called the first the "super­ego type." one that existed before the transformation and em­phasized sin, suffering, and death. The second presented a "real . Jesus" who opened himself to the ordinary man. Called Ego religion. it was "identification with the real .Jesus out of love and trust rather than out of fear and guilt. 
"Attitudes of the majority of the faithful have changed significantly since the middle ages," Holl strt>ssed. Christ. symbolizing the all-powerful God. is not now considered the divine leader heonce 
Hall presidents favor bigger food sales take for halls 
lcontimwd from page 6) 
This vear we made it 60-40 and possihiy next year we will make another change." Griffin said. 
!\lost or the hall presidents favor larger percentages to the halls for ;tdivities and improvements. llowever. the size of the hall is a l'ritical factor in such halls a.<; Pangborn-. St. Ed's and Fisher. 
Initiation of monthly statements ;111d monthly inventories are what has made hill! governments aware of the availability of larger profits. Again. the smaller halls are hurt most unless they raise their hall tax. The presidents are in agreement that this is an un­popular notion. 
'i'he proprietors are quick to point out that while their per­l'entage may seem large, their actual wages are kept down by the need and hiring of help in 
WhAT's ThE 
RELiGious LiFE LiJ{E? 

Aslr tlte Men Wlto Know Contact: 
Fr. Antlrew Cifemi, 0. Praem. 
Holy Cross Hall, 107 UNO -tele: 283-6185 
operating food sales. The numer of credits its low number of emplyees t>mployees at night range to the fact that it is the only am·where from two at Flanner to 5 operation on campus where orders and li at Stanford-Keenan. Flanner can be phoned. J!llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll1!)
!,.MARDI GRAS SPECIAL$755 j 
s · · COUPON s 
: " E ~ ..,,.,~. MAKE RUM PUNCH fifth ~ 
~~ Bacardi 151 Rum ~ 
=lt=='• = 
~1.....-~;J, ~ ~~1Town & Country Liquor Riverpark Liquor~§ 'WIW T & C Shopping Center 2411 Mish. Ave. § 
iiiIIIIIIII11111111111111llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllldlllllII111111111111111111111111IIIIIIIIIi 
BridalSets IMPORTED IY 
I 

Also Concord Mall ,in Elkhart ?.owntown open Mon. & Thurs. 'til9. Blackmond's open Fri. til 9. Others open ever nite 'til 9. 
CLASSIFIED FIDS 
WANTED 
Need good tickets to Santana concert. Will pay$$. Call 234-9420 after 5:30 pm. 
Need ride'to St. Louis this Friday, Cathy 4682. 
Needed: ride to eastern PA (Wilkes-Barre, Allentown) Fri. Feb. 9 and return on Sun Feb. 11. Bob 6784. 
Need 4 Santana tix, bleacher call Bill. 8680. 
2 qirls need ride to Cincinnati this friday Feb. 9. Call 5495. 
Need ride for 2 from Illinois State to ND Feb. 9. Call Jim 3274. 
Need room ate for 0-C house (near campus) Call Lou 233-7033. · 
Wanted: a go-cart in any con­dition. call Joe 232-0550. 
Several men needed· immediately for telephonw sales work. Hourly wage. For more information call 288 6026. 
Two need ride to Columbus, Marietta, or Parkersburg Feb. 16 or 32. Roundtrip. 8118. 
NOTICES 
FOR INFORMATION ABOUT THE GAY AWARENESS COMMUNITY, CALL7789, W-TH· F 810 pm. 
A BETTER CHOICE IS LIFE FOR THE UNBORN CHILD­CONTACT BIRTHRIGHT, INC. IN SOUTH BEND, P.O. BOX 824, OR CALL 2891034. 
Before you buy a diamond learn all the facts, it may save you a qreat deal. Call James 3118. _ 
Need $20-$150? Borrow from Morrissey Loan Fund. LaFortune Basement. Monday thru Friday ]1: 15-12:15. 
Detroit bus signups for mid· semester, easter. $12 round trip. 1721. ' 
Ride to and back from Columbus Ohio this weekend .. Leave Friday 
12:30. Call Greg 1521. 
JUNIORS: Sign up today for your yearbook portraits today in La Fortune student center, room 2C. between 9-1 & 2-6. 
Electric guitar (Harmony 2 pickups), amplifiers; both for $50. 3866. 
Interested in working in Southern Michigan at a Boy Scout Camp? Summer position includes room, board, salary, and use of camp facilities. Call Steve '7401. 
P .S. No scout registration required. 
SUNNY CALIFORNIA OVER SPRING BREAK FOR ONLY $130? We're trying to get a quick estimate of the number in­terested. Please call asaJJ. TONY MOLl NA 8282, 1-2 pm or 11-12 pm. 
HELP! Desperately need ride to Peoria Bloomington (ISUl on Friday Feb. 9, call Jim at 1165. 
GSU ski trip Spots still open contact Jim 102B NSH, or call 272-8158. 
PANDORA'S BOOKS IS ON THE MOVE. Starting Monday . New store at South Bend Ave & St. Louis, across from Rocco's. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost: camera Pentex Spot­matic. Around St. Mary's dining hall. Reward. Call Pat 288-0803. 
Lost: blue suede purse Monday night on shuttle. If found call 4292, reward. 
Lost ladies gold watch with broken band on Fri., 1-19-73, great sentimental value and 1 gold hoop earring with design. Lost Thurs. 1-18-73 afternoon in vicinity of South dining hall. if found call 4873. 
Found: Wire-rimmed glasses with case call 1046. 
Lost: engraved cross pen at 
Freshman  Registration.  Gift  
from  HTH.  Please return.  Mike  
6171.  

LOST; Part collie, part shep, all tan male. Seen on campus 2-6. .Any information concerning his whereabouts would be greatly appreciated. If found contact either 233-3893 or 7471. Reward. 
PERSONALS 
9 days in Spain and Paris. $279 plus tax and service. Call Chris . 291-1741. 
FOR SALE 
Two Neil Young tickets for sale. Ca II Joe 7908. 
For sale: two excellent Santana tix, best offer of $4.50 or more; call 3374. 
For sale: G.E. stereo W-am.fm radio. $75.00 or best offer. Call 232 8631. 
Stereo, AM FM, BSR changer $65. Opt. 8 track & tapes. 1578... 
Electric golf cart w-charger. $150.00. Call 1127 9-12 am. 
FOR RENT 
Rooms & kitchen. Near. $40 mo. 233-1329. 
Lay Awareness: group of Hetrosexual Students interested in qathering together informally to discuss mutual experiences & problems within private at­mosphere. 232-7143. 
Wo' k on Vol kswagons 11 yrs experience. Call 272-2765 or after six, call 272-3980. 
Final score Tuesday night in interhall hockey: THE GRACE TOWER GORILLAS 5, THE ALUMNI HALL DOGS 4. 
Rider5 needed to Columbus Call Ralph 1688 or meet at St. . Mary's entrance after mid­
night 

-
-


.. 
8 
the observer 

ND downs MSU, climbs to 10 9 

-
-
i 
i 
~ ~ 
l 
by Vic Dorr 16 points, dealt out seven assists and committed-in the 39-plus 
Gus Ganakas, Michigan State's , minutes that he was on the floor­veteran basketball· coach, had only one turnover. ~ood reason to be upset. He had just watched his team succumb, The victory-which moved ND's 115-72. to a determined Notre Dame basketball record to 10-9-did not comE.'back. and had seen the Irish come in the easiest possible ~hrPd his defense for seven in­manner. The Irish had to battle for ~urance points during the last two their win. and they had to over­and on£'-half minutes of play. come the effects of a particularly 
spotty first half. Coach Digger··we played a horrible game," he Phelps' squad was beaten badly on said. "As tl'je second half wore on 
the boards (28-14) during the first wt• lwcam£' more disorganized and 20 minutes. and the SpartanslhPy became stronger through parlayed their rebounding edgeorganization. We just went out into a 35-34 haHtime cushion. 
individual-style instead of playing !Pam ball." 
"We did play p-oorly during the fir~t half," acknowledged Digger,"I was very disappointed in our "but we hung in there and stole itplay. Pspecially on defense\-which at the end. They were all a littleI consider paper. Our rebounding tired out there-they've playedwas the only thing that kept us four games in seven days now, and from being annihilated. But the this is beginning to feel like theIrish played very well-Novak and NBA. Hut we have had two bigBrokaw played fine games, both wins in those four games, and nowshooting and on defense." 
wc've won nine, of our last 12." Novak (who finished as ND's high point man with 24 points) and The Spartans kept the outcome Brokaw (who finished with 22) did of last night's game in doubt until play well, but they were not Notre just over two minutes of playing DamP's only heroes. Playmaker timE' remained. Baskets by Bill Dwight C'lay had a major role in Kilgore and Mike Robinson <who the win. The 5-11 sohpomore scored led all scorers with 25 points), gave 
Irish to resume swimming rivalry at St. Bonaventure 
Notre Dame avenged the loss with The Irish swimmers visit St. 
a decisive 75-38 victory over
Bonaventure Saturday for a duel Bradley on Saturday.
meet. following last weekend's split on the road. Topped by At Northern Illinois, Notre Dame 
Northern Illinois last Friday, 63-50, was able to manage only three firsts: Jim Kane in the 100-yardMSU Relays next freestyle. Chris Payne in the three­meter diving and the 400-yard freestyle relay.
for ND's thine/ads 
Eight wins in 13 events enabled a 
Notre Dame's track team 

complete reversal for the Irish attravels to East Lansing, Michigan, Bradley. Gaining firsts were JohnSaturday for the Michigan State Sherk. Joe O'Connor, GeneHt'lays. Coach Don Faley hopes to 
Krathaus. Ed Graham, Mark
have his squad improve on their Foster, Dan Makielski and the two1972 showing when they earned one relay teams.
first place and three fourths. 
The Golden Anniversary Coach Dennis Stark expressed Michigan State Relays promise to pleasure with the team's per­he one of the great indoor meets of formance Saturday and optimism the year. Among the 25 teams for the upcoming St. Bonaventure represented will be Michigan, meet. "Everyone swam well at Drake. Nebraska, Kansas and Bradley, coming off of the Western Michigan, which is on the disappointing loss on Friday. Our Irish schedule this year. real test will come this Saturday at 
Marshall Dill, the world record St. Bonaventure." holder for the 300-yard run, and Of the six previous meetings Olympian .Jerry Tinker will offer between the Bonnies and the Irish, some stiff competition in the the final event has determined the sprints. Big Ten champ Godfrey winner in the past four. At home in Murray and Notte Dame's current 1972, Notre Dame prevailed, 61-52. NCAA champ Tom McMannon will Outstanding swimmers for the pace all runners in the hurdles. Bonnies include Rick Bohan in the 
The Irish two-mile relay squad breastroke and John Closs in the will be searching for points against butterfly. Bohan, in last year's some tough foes. Mike Gahagan, meet. set a Notre Dame pool Housley..John Duffy and Joe Yates record of 2: 16.7 in the 200-yard looked good in Cleveland, but that breastroke. race was won by the strong Notre Dame has a 5-3 record; 2-1 Villanova team. at home and 3-2 on the road. 
MSU a five-point spread at the start of the final period, but the Irish replied with two scores by Gary Novak and two by John Shumate and gained their first lead of the half, 40-39, with 17:00 remaining. 
Novak threw in· a hook shot <goal-tending>, and Clay hit a jumper from the corner during the next minute to give ND a 44-39 
Pdge, and the visitors were unable to get any closer than three after that. Kilgore's inside bucket with 
li: 12 left made it 68-65, but the Spartans could muster only seven points during the last six minutes or play. 
Notre Dame, on the other hand, notched 17 points-most of them t·oming during the last five minutes. Pete Crotty's 15-footer gave the Irish a six-point lead with 
4:52 left. and a Novak lay-in and two Clay free throws during the next two minutes made it 76-68. Clay put the game out of reach 30 seconds later. when he canned the first of two driving lay-ups-both resulting from ND's well~~xecuted stall offense. 
"In the last three minutes," s · Phelps. "we went to a zone nse and wE' went into a stall. hat won the game for us. Dwight did a super job. He just took charge, and that's something we weren't doing during December. This really was " big one-it's great to get it over with." 
Heavy foul trouble-Novak and Brokaw each finished the game with four personals, Crotty with three-forced the Irish into their late-game defensive change, but the results left Phelps quite pleased. 
"No." he said, "I never thought about sitting any of them down. We had to play with what we had, we had to go with our strength, and they were working well together. I didn't want to break that up with any more fouls. and that's why we went to the zone." Mike Robinson's two 20-foot jumpers were the lone 
B-ball tipoff time changed 

Television arrangements have forced a change in tipoff time for Saturdav afternoon's Notre Dame­LaSalle ·basketball game. · 
The game, which will be played in Notre Dame's Athletic and Convocation Center, was originally slated for 2:00 pm-and that time is printed on the game tickets as well as on ND's wallet-sized basketball schedules. 
But, because of committments to regional television, tipoff has been moved back one and one-half hours-to 3:30 pm. 

MSU scores against that zone. 

Notre Dame will next meet the 
.Joining Robinson in double LaSalle Explorers, in a 3:30 home 
figures for the Spartans were game on Saturday afternoon. Kilgore (20 points> and Lindsay llairston (16>. Hairston and Kilgore combined to grab 33 
Happy

rebounds. The Irish placed four 
Birthday

starters-Novak, Brokaw, Clay, 
ED

and Shumate-in double figures. Shue's 12 rebounds paced ND's efforts on the boards. 
MARDI GRAS 
STEPAN CENTER TONIGHT 7-12 p.m. 

or LOIS TRANTER JORDON MOTORS 259-198 J 
For students and racul1y 21 and ovet 
RENT·A·CAR 






