
On The Inside 
Indiana student lobby formed .•. page 3 Summer jobs found for students ... page 6 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Friday, March 23, 1973

Vol. VII, No. 99 
Abortion vs. right to life 

Arguments traded in discussion 
Gray of FBI contends yea 
Did Nixon aide 'lie'in Watergate interview? 
by Mary Janca Staff Reporter 
A woman's right to the privacy of her own body, and the distinction between 
legitimate and illegitimate abortion figured as maJor points of controversy in a panel discussion on the "Philosophic Per­spectives of Abortion" last night in the Architecture Auditorium. 
The debate, sponsored by the Philosophy Honors Society, included Moderator Professor Edward Manier and panelists Professors Timothy Brinkley, Kennetp Goodpaster, Ralph Mcinerny, of the Notre Dame Philosophy Department, and Dr.. Alan Nassar of Saint Mary's Philosophy Department. 
Dr. Kenneth Goodpaster began the discussion with an attack on the recent Supreme Court decision to legalize abortion. This ruling, he said, counters one's basic, moral intuitions. 
"The Court's ruling is irresponsive of the cannons of moral reasoning and judicial restraint. The harm done to the unborn is Jess significant, perhaps, than the harm done to our own moral sensitivities and ultimately, therefore, to ourselves," he said. 
His major concern is that the court opinion acknowledges on a theoretical level the interest in the developing life of the fetus. while effectively preventing legislators from taking steps to protect that life. 
Goodpaster charged that actual viability of the fetus can not be considered a relevant standard for determining its right to life, when in other questions we recognize future potential as an important factor. 
''Why should viability, which takes place in modern technology at 24-28 weeks of fetal development, be considered a morally relevant cut-off when in so many contexts we seem able to recognize potentially as having a claim upon us," he questioned. 
He further noted a "lack of con­sciousness" regarding the time of r!Pvelopment in which the fetus is con­
(sidered a "person." The text of Justice Blackman's major 
Students listen as philosophy professors from Notre Dame and St. Mary's discuss the pros and cons of abortion in last night's panel talk. (Staff photo by Jim Hunt). 
opinion is insensitive to the justification of viability as a compelling point for state interest, he continued. 
Goodpaster stated that the Courts need "moral reasons for taking or not taking the fetus into account." The first step in ob­taining these revisions, is "a plausable and well-argued set of principles for moral decision making, called the Contradarian Decision, supported by Professor John Rawles, in his book, Theory of Justice. 
"A point of view that regards abortion as a just solution to a social problem and is irresponsive to the implicit demands of moral decisions," he concluded. 
Professor Timothy Binkley based his arguments that "a woman has a moral right to have an abortion when she wants 
to"  by  distinguishing  between  a  
"pregnancy  termination  and  fetus  
killing."  

Using Judith Thompson's analogy that an unwanted pregnancy is similar to waking. up one morning to discover another person totally physically dependent upon you for existence, Thompson and Binkley contend that in such a case that "you would have a right to have the other person removed, because this person, without your consent, has started using your body." 
Although the fetus ia a human being, he said that without the consent of the woman it began to use her body. Therefore, she has a right to remove it, and "regain total control of her body." 
The violation of the woman's rights justify the abortion, he continued. ' 
"The rights to have an abortion is not fundamentally different from the right to refuse to give blood," Binkley continued. 
He further stated that an abortion is not merely the removal of the fetus, but also "an act which happens to the woman." 
Dr. Ralph Mcinerny argued that many questions concerning abortion revolve about a confusion in the language, and he tried to differentiate between abortion as a termination of pregnancy and as an un­justified termination of pregnancy, labeling these Abortion I and II. 
Abortion II, he said, would always be 
wrong, an example being when an abortion1 
is performed without the consent of the! 
mother. Mcinerny argued against abor.. 
tion as purely another operation per.. 
formed on a woman, saying that whether 
done with or without the consent of the· 
mother, it could not be considered in the 
same sense as an appendix removal or 
similar operation. 
Mcinerny also observed, in cases such 
as Abortion I, that when "termination of a 
pregnancy does not necessarily entail the 
death of a fetus", it involves a major 
question regarding the morality of 
abortion. 
Turning to the Supreme Court decision, 
Mcinerny suggested that the Court's 
assignment of times when it can be legal to · 
terminate a pregnancy must necessarily 
be subject to change. 
He noted that the Court considered three 
factors in its decision--the right to privacy 
of the woman, the state's interest in the 
health of the mother, and the state's in­
terest in the potential life-and used these 
three factors to assign the time limits. 
Mcinerny pointed out that of these. three 
considerations, the last two are 
(continued on page 7) 

by John M. Crewdson 
(C) 1913 New YorJt Times News Service 
Washington-L. Patrick Gray III, President Nixon's nominee to head the Federal Bureau of Investigation, told Senators today that Nixon's chief legal counsel "probably" lied to Bureau agents investigating the Watergate bugging case last summer. · But Gray said that he continued to send confidential Bureau materials to the counsel, John W. Dean III, after realizing that Dean might have been untruthful. He added that he would continue to do so if Dean requested more confidential documents. 
The admission by Gray visibly surprised many of those present at the Senate Judiciary Committee's hearings on his nomination. It came in more than two hours of close questioning by Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D.-W.Va., the majority whip. who is Gray's strongest opponent among the Com­mittee's nine Democratic members. 
Gray said that Dean was present at an F.B.I. interview last June 22 with Charles W. Colson. who was then a special counsel to Nixon. Gray previously said that Dean, who was t•onducting a special investigation of the Watergate case for Nixon. had insisted on attending all interviews Bureau agents held with \\'hite House personnel. 
One of the agents questioning Colson made a "chance n•mark" about whether E. Howard Hunt, Jr., a former part-time White House consultant who pleaded guilty in the Watergate case. had had an office at the White House, Gray said. 
I>l•an. Gray related. "indicated at that time he didn't know_ whether Hunt had an office" and added that "he'd have to check it out." 
Bvrd then recalled previous testimony before the com­mitiee in which Gray said that on June. 19, two of Dean's dt'pulies directed a search of Hunt's office in Room 338 of 
the old executive office building, next-door to the White 
House. · 
Gray told the committee two weeks ago that the items 
found in Hunt's desk and in a safe there, which Deai\'S 
assistants ordered opened, were turned over to Dean 
himself on June 20, the next day. 
lie said then that Dean kept the materials for a wt>ek 
"sorted through the boxes to determine if there was ¥!Y 
dassified material," and then "voluntarily" handed Hunt's 
t•ffects over to the Bureau on June 27. 
Byrd. after recounting this chronology and Dean's 
statemmt of June 22 that he "didn't know' whether Hunt 
had had an office at the White House, asked: 
"Ht-lied to the agent. didn't he?" 
"1 would have to conclude that that probably is correct," 
<;ray replied. Rut he added that when the Burt>au,received 
Hunt's l'ffccts from Dean on June 27, "we just didn't think 
about it." 
Aecording to the White House. Dean's recollection of the 
ineidenl was that he had been asked by the agents "whether 
or not they could visit Mr. Hunt's office," and that he 
n•nwmbers replying that he would "check." 
Tlw statement called the reference to Dean's veracity by 
(iray and Byrd "reprehensible. unfortunate, unfair and 
ineorrect." 
<;ray. who l'ompleted his eighth day of testimony before 
llw eommittee this afternoon. has said that in the following 
months he gave Dean more than 80 "sensitive" Bureau 
n·ports on the Watergate case without seeking approval 
from his superiors. 
Three of tlwsl', he has said, contained, "confidential" 
intt>rviews with employes of the committee for the re­
t-ll•ction of the President who had told federal agents of the 
alleged destruction of campaign records by Nixon com­. mittee officials immediately after the June 17 break-in at the Watergate complex here. Another report contained an account of conversations overheard by the group, headed by Hunt and G. Gordon 
Liddy, then a Nixon campaign counsel, that bugged telephones in the Democratic party's Watergate offices last spring. 
"Yesterday, yot:1sa id you would continue to send Mr. Dean raw F.B.I. files if he requested them," Byrd continued. "Why would you eontinueto send raw F.B.I. files to a man who. to use your words, 'probably'lied to an F.B.I. agent?" 
"That man is counsel to the President of the United States." Gray replied. "Where does your first duty lie," Byrd asked. "to the President of the United States or to the F.B.I.?" 
"That's a tough question." Gray conceded. ''We mav indeed be creating national policeforee-it 's a very real ri­sk. But at this time. I do take my orders from the Prt-sident. and I can't evade that fact~" 
Byrd finished his interrogation by reading a long s!ate~wnt s.aying. that his early decision to vote against <.ray s confirmatiOn had ''only been substantiated by the developments that have occurred in the course of the 
hearings." Gray replied that he understood Byrd's position. adding. "I regret that I have not been able to persuade you. Thank ~·ou very much." St-n. James 0. Eastland. D.-Miss., the Committee Chairman. later adjourned the hearings for what he said would probably be "several days." 
Although Eastland did not formally excuse Gray from further testimony. Committee sources said it was unlikely that he would again be called to testify before the Com­Ill ittee votes on his nomination. 
Among the Committee's 16 members. seven Democral \1\'PI'e ~·eporled ready to vote against the Gray nomination. and a equal number--six republicans and Eastland--were said to favor his confirmation . 
Ther~ has been speculation that the one remaining Bt-pubhcan. C'harles Mathias Jr. of Maryland. might give the Democrats the eighth vote they need to block the nomination. 

Friday, March 23, 1973
the observer 
warld 
briefs 
(C) 197.1 New York Times 
Saigon-After almost two months of continued fighting and rl'peated cease-fire violations, the struggle for control of South Vietnam is beginning to enter a new, uncertain phase. The t>mphasis is turning from war to politics, and the Viet­l'ong is reportedly experimenting with a variety of techniques to improve its political base. 
Paris-l<~ive years after the student-worker upheavals of 19f..S. French youths are on the march again. This time it's high school students protesting drastic cutbacks in their draft deferments. Some want to abolish the army, most want to delay induction until after graduation and tens of thousands of them have taken to the streets in a nationwide strike. 
Saigon-A new controversy over the return of American prisoners of war arose Thursday with the United States in­sistence that 10 Americans held in Laos be included when the last group of prisoners are released in Hanoi this weekend. llnited States sources say the return of the prisoners in Laos was part of an American-North Vietnamese understanding. The Communists say the United States is introducing a new­and unacceptable-eondition. 
Washington-L. Patrick-Gray l!Jd, the acting head of the 1-'ederal Bureau of Investigation, said that a White House aide "probably'' "lied to F.B.I. agents during the Watergate investigation. Despite this, Gray told a Senate panel, he continued to send F.B.I. files on the case to the aide, John W. l>t•an 3d. 
Wa.Jtington:.....The National Commission on Drug Abuse issued its final report calling for treatment instead of punish­ment ofdrug users and recognizing alcohol as a major part of the nation's drug problem. The report's recognition of an individual's right to use harmful drugs differs greatly from the position of President Nixon, wbo refused to comment or pose for pictures at the presentation. 
an~taday 
hi.'2J 1·5 p.m.-..r•fMn of 1M ltfened ucraiMftf. c:w1tr IYII elYpel ~: JO-meefintl, student coallttcn for 1he human life •mend· men+. lc Iafortune 
s: 00-mass and dinner, bulla llled 8:00--retreat, true house 8p.m. --movie, growing upfemale, Ub...... 
8: 
00-lecture,ihe role of 1he chicano In the american pol !flea I system. library auditorium 

8: 
00--concert. fifth dimension, ace 

8: 
15--concert. notre dame concert band, o'laughlln 


auditorium 8 & 10-movie, bonnie and clyde, holy cross hall 8 & 10-movie, carnal knowledge, engineerint auditorium 
sat. 24 10 a.m... discussion,martha grlfflths (0-Mich), lib. aud. 2p.m.--discussion, equal rights amendment, lib. aud. 8& 10 pm-movie, bonnie and clyde, holy cross hall 
8 & 10-movie. busft!r keaion festival, auditorium 
sun. 25 8 & 10 pm-movie, buster keei<>n festival, auditorium 8:00-lecture-discussion, 1hey speak for stapleton lounge 

entineerint 
engineering the unborn, 


AZ~_'J.'S 
. 
Dr. Diamond and wife to talk Sunday on abortion 
"They speak for the Unborn", will be the discussion topic of Dr. and Mrs. Eugene F. Diamond at an informal organizational meeting on Sunday, March 25, in Stapleton Lounge. 
Sponsored by the St. Mary's Campus Ministry, the Diamonds will present medical insight to the question of abortion and will offer definite steps to translate student concern into effective action for the protection of all human life. 
Dr. Diamond is a professor of pediatrics and the head of the medical advisory team of Bir­thright in Chicago. Mrs. Diamond is the founder of Birthright in Chicago. 
Martha Grilliths here Saturday 
The Equal Rights Am­mendment, <ERA) , currently_ 

Observer ads pay off 
TONIGHT 


FRIDAY 

MARCH 23 

8:00pm 
at the ACC 
Ticket Prices 
still available Bleachers ... 3.00 lower Arena ... 4.50 
Box Office Open at gate 10 of ACC 9-S also 1 hour before showtime. 

facing a stiff fight in the Indiana r-------------------------r 
Slate Senate, will be the topi~-of a symposium held at the .University of Notre Dame's .Memorial Library auditorium Friday and Saturday <March ~and 31). The symposium is l!POnsored by the Women's Rig)lt! Association of the Notre Da11U!7 Law School. 
U.S. Congresswoman Martha Griffiths <0-Mich) wiD be the keynote speaker at the. sym­posium. She will discuss the ERA at 10 a.m. Saturday in the Library auditorium and answer questions. 
Scheduled for Saturday af­ternoon at 2 p.m., will be a panel presentation on the ERA which will include discussions of its effect on Indiana and federal laws, employment. education, the family and the social structure. Par-· ticipating in the panel will be members of the Notre Dame Law School. the Women's Political Caucus. the National Organizatiell of Women, and Common Cause. 


On Claic:anos 
Muniz to address Library audience 
Ramsey Muniz, a 29 year old Chicano attorney ·from Waco, Texas. will deliver a lecture on the role of the Chicano in the American political system tonight at 8:00 
p.m. in the Library Auditorium. 

An organizer of the Raza Unida Party. founded to provide a national strategy for the Chicano \'ole. Muniz was the KllP's first (•andidate for governor, running in T<'xas. 
CINEMA •73 
Buster Keaton Festival 
"The Seven Chances" 



''Cops'' 
.....
''Keaton worked strictly for laughs, but his 
work came from so far iMide a curious and 
original spirit that be achieved a great deal ., 
besides ... " ·James Agee, "Life'• 
'· _.r...... 
(1949)
,. ,, :.<· 
Sat & Sun March 24 & 25 8 & 10 pm $1, patrons free 
Engineering Auditorium 
nb: substituting for "Singing in the Rain11 

_:::,..~'\'/: MONTE ENTERPRISES with 
-"-­.... .....
--.:: 

SERVICES COMMISSION PRESENTS
~ 

White Sox Opening Day Tril' Sox vs. Oakland A's 
Tuesday Aprit 1 0 $10 Price Includes Bus Ride to and from Stadium
;Big Boy Family Restaurantj. 

ncket to game 
Free Beer on Bus 

Now in your area 
Buses Leave Circle 9:30 
Arrive in time for breakfast at McCuddy's with Dave Condon. For info & reservations call or see: Leo Breen 3651 418 Morrissey Track Lins 3648 415 Morrissey
~ 52860 U.S. 31 North See the fighting Whtte Sox in Action!
~\in front of Ramada) 272-9720
I Limited Seats Available -CALL NOW!! 

Friday,· March 23, 1973 


Indiana colleges form student lobby 
Any student eligible for Student I Assistant Business Manager 
shouici be a business maior with accounting experience
Teaching during the fall semester will move to business manager's post
1973-7 4 should complete pplication in Room 320 Madeleva, 
ssistant Advertising Manager
St. Mary's 
must be able to work from 10:00 to 5:00 daily 
(Mon. • Fri.) Applications and resumes should be submitted to
Application deadline • Jerry lutkus Box Q

Friday March 23rd 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 or brou ht to The Observer office Fri. Mar. 30. 
by Mark Derheimer Staff Reporter 
A student lobby association of colleges and universities in In­diana is being planned to represent student interests at the state legislature. according to Student Hody Vice-President Dennis "H­Man" Etienne. 
On April 7, Purdue University at Lafayette, Indiana will host a 

Co.m.munity Relations Council to be organized by St. Mary's 
by Tim Truesdell Staff Reporter 
Saint Mary's College has an­nounced the creation of a Com­munity Relations Council com­prised of South Bend residents, College faculty and staff. The decision was revealed March 8 at a luncheon hosted by SMC President Dr. Edward Henry. · 
The Council will examine ways in which the College students, faculty and administration can best serve the South Bend area. The organization will also act as a liaison group for the recently formed Speakers' Bureau, in which SMC faculty and staff will be available to local groups for speaking engagements. 

STUDENT TEACHING! 
conference for the purpose of organizing, electing officers, and setting the goals of.the lobby. All forty-five colleges and universities in the state have been invited. Etienne expects at least twenty schools to participate, with the five 
larger schools, Indiana U., Pur-Irepresent the students while the due. Ball State, Indiana State, and legislature is in session. Notre Dame all actively involved. At the present the lowering of the 
The purpose of the lobby ·is to drinking age from 21 to 18 is ex­establish an organization that will pected to be the first area of 
Among the members from the Professor of Music and Mrs. 
South Bend community will be: Patricia Pilger, Assistant Mr, Stephen McTigue, Executive Professor of SociQlogy. Secretary of the South Bend­Dr. Jack Detzler, Director of 
Mishawaka Chamber of Com­Community Relations for SMC, merce and· Mr. Isiah Jackson, will serve as Executive Secretary Director of the Manpower Training of the Council. Progr~m. No immediate activities have 
Representatives of SMC will been planned for this month but include: Dr. Dorothy Feigl, further information concerning the Associate Professor of Chemistry, Council's function can be obtained Dr. Arthur Lawrence, Assistant from Dr. Detzler. 
For muscular dystrophy 
Dance marathon slated 
by John Runt'bach Staff RfWOrter 
Dancing for 48 hours is no world record, but it could win some couple $300. Notre Dame Student Government in conjunction with the .Muscular Dystrophy Association of America <MDAA> is sponsoring a dance marathon beginning_ 4 p.m. April 6 and ending 4 p.m: April 8 . in the Rathskeller of the Student Center. 
Coletta Miller. co-chairman of the event. announced that there is a· $10 ,entree tee whit:h will be dpnated to theMDAA. Couples will 
·.. compete for the cash grand prize and door prizes donated by local merchants. The winners will be thPse whP dance the longest and raise the · most money ·from Pledges. . Upeo eriteting, the contestants will· recetvt' .a packet containing 
Gallery features Lauck works 
Sculpture and drawings of Rev. Anthony J. Lauck, C.S.C., director of the University of Notre Dame Art Gallery. are featured in the current gallery exhibit . The one­man show shares display areas with "Benefactors of Notre I>ame." a collection of almost 200 art works given to the University during the last century. 
Five monumental reliefs carved in walnut by Father Lauck during the last year will be highlighted in the exhibit. 
represent the college student at tha Indiana General Assembly. Ac­cording to Etienne, the lobby association plans to raise funds by · charging dues from each member school. .This money will be used to hire a professional lobbyist to 
sponsor sh~~s and MDAA in­
formation to give to prospective 
sponsors. Clubs and organizations 
may enter couples and collect 
pledges from sponsors as a grou~ 
"SpPnsors may either donate a 
flat sum of money or agree to 
contribute a certain amount for 
each hour the couple dances," 
Miller said. · Observers will be charged a 25 
cent admission fee which will be · 
given as a pledge to their favorite 
couple. ~·, ..,, 
The. dance marathon lund 
raising program has been used by 
other universities . including the 
University of Maryland, the 
University of IUinois; Colorado 
State University and St. Joseplt 
College. ,, . · . . .. 
Miller said that some setiools 
have made as. much as $15,000 for 
the MDAA. All funds raised at the 
Notl'e Dame marathon will.be used 
in St. Joseph Countr. 
News and televiston will. Cahl' 
the event. Miller said. 
Any person interested can can 
Notre Dame StudeAt' Government 
at 7668. 
Those .couples interested in 
breaking the world dance 
marathon record might keep in 
mind that it is, according to The 
Guinness Book of Records, 3,780 
hours. 

Admission $1 o:. 

NNOUNCINGI 


e Observer has paid positions open in its business departmen 






THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Art Ferranti E )(ecutive Editor 
Dan Thornton Business Manager 
Friday, March 23, 1973 
let Halls Govern 
The repercussions of the infamous "Lewis Hall incident" are finally being felt' throughout the graduate student community at Notre Dame and if the undergraduates of Notre Dame are smart, they will use the opportunity to secure some rights that also should be delegated to them. 
Wednesday night when the Graduate Student Union Committee on Sanctions finalized their list of proposed sanctions and violations, they brought to the fore one extremely important point. Paul Bolduc said it simply enough, " ... the dormitories should set up their own rules." 
Now it is incomprehensible to think that a University should set up rules for a u:roup of adults over the age of 21living on this cam pus. The ruling body should be the community in which those adults live 
the dormitory. It should be the responsibility of each dormitory to set the regulations by which its members are to live. As each dormitory faces different living situations, they should follow different regulations. It just follows naturally. Halls are autonomous living arrangements and should be governed as such ... particularly if living within them are groups of legal adults. 
If the University can bring themselves to recognize that, then the adjudicatory system proposed by the ASAC would present the graduate students with an excellent due process hearing system. The ASAC's judicial system could be called into effect when the hall's judicial codes have been violated and the hall judicial systems used. The campus-wide judicial program could then be called in for a appeal. 
However, if the halls are not allowed to produce ther own regulations and judicial boards, then the ASAC's system is unacceptable for it contradicts the basic principle of hall autonomy. Chances are that the hall system will be passed up though, considering the University's sta nee on in loco parentis. This would be unfortunate. 
Jerry Lutkus Editor-in-Chief  Dan Barrett E )(ecutive Editor  
NEWS:  283-1715  
EDITORIALS:  283-8661  Joe Butler  
BUSINESS:  283-7471  Advertising Manager  


~ 1!1/f!lr
daan..bury 
YOII'fi.E 
fJJ/151)/(6 
YOL¥l" 
/ (/M~ 
f)t"IIR. 
The consequences of this action could spread beyond the graduate students if the student undergraduate government decides to enter into the situation. In conjunction with the graduates' action, the undergrads should be likewise pushing for greater hall autonomy -­particularly if the administration agrees to graduate demands for hall autonomy. Given the precedent, the student government could use the opportunity to force this issue. 
Across the country, state legislatures are agreeing to the principle that 18 year olds are no longer minors and they are giving them commensurate rights and responsibilities. With this in mind, the students at ND given that Indiana also seems to be moving towards a lower n'ajority age--should push for an end to in loco parentis. 
There is no denying that each hall on campus is a different living experience and accordingly each should be ruled by appropriate regulations whether graduate or undergraduate. Further, it is absurd to put in loco parentis type regulations on adults. Taking into ac­count that 19 year olds may soon be adults in Indiana, it seems also improper to strap them with campus-wide hall regulations. Rather than impose a Christian life-style upon the students of Notre Dame, let us create an atmosphere in which students can discover that Christianity within their hall com­Ill unities. 
The case is before the jury now. The administration is viewing the recom­mendations of both the ASAC and the Graduate GSU Committee on Sanctions. It is hoped that they accept both and thus present the graduate students with a proper judicial system, one in which no one will be denied due process. If they are granted this basic right to learn through self-government, it is time for un­dergraduates to likewise demand the recognition of halls as the potential Christian classrooms they are. 
Jerry Lutkus 
Butch Ward 
1?11#6/ 
I

!J 

,.arry trudeau 
~
the observer 

I 3·:2-?>
I 


Managing Editor: Joe Ab£'11 News Edotor: Anthony Abowd St. Mary's Editor: Maria Gallagher Sports Editor: Vic Dorr Edotorial E(!!!:;;, Butch W<ord JJ/10, we'll£ Fe~!Ures Edotor: Beth Hall WHIIT A/1 (jOT TO Wore Edotor: Tom Drape I WfJTCHI/'16, TAL-K.. 
Noght Edotor: Joe Abell IJNY{i)/IY!. Asst. Night Edotors: Bill Brink and Maria Gallagher 
I.· 

Layout: M.>rlene Zloza (see above) Day Edotor: Bill Sohn Ad Specs: John Rumt:Jach Ad Layout: Pete Fr~es ,,nd Joe Abell Poctures: JPromP Phillips Copy Edotor: Mrke B,1um Compugraphoc Operator: Rich Meloy Typosts: Dr,,nc Chermside. Dave Rust. Tom 
Modqlm. Dennrs Anastasott Night Controller: Harry Chung 
w~u., .rw 
601 'fl) 1'1l't 
HfJH! OR 
H&Y, H&YI

n.se HS Hll'l() 
P/1/J, I.. 

(}Vter! /J()#'r

15 GCING ro 
\

171M ro Hf/91. 

51/Y IJN'/~


I 

Eiames PeaplePlay That Time Of Year 


marlene zlaza 
In almost two years of working on this newspaper, I have never lwforP attempted to write a column_ I guess the best reason was that I tH'\'l'r ft•lt well enough qualified or interested enough to writl' about anv otw thing. If you've ever tried, I'm sure you would agree that it's not· tun and games to stare at the lines on blank paper trying t'5 think of '' t1 t y. philosophical, instructive or even bitter prose. Especially when ~·ou Pxpect to see it in print. 
But now. after all this time, I've found my calling, my issue. I can IH·ar all of my friends chuckling when they see my topic. I've been lt•aspd by family. friends and enemies ever since I can remember for hPing a sports fanatic. And now I top it all off by making my creative ckbut writing about sports. I may be predicatble, but at least I'm consiStl•nt. 
And this timl' I really do know my subject. You see I'm from In­diana and till' season is late winter. That can mean only one thing-­lloosier Hvsteria. For till' ia_st month I was ribbed by lots 01 people here about this 
crazy tournament that could only take place in this equally insane statt•. WPII. l'veryone is entitled to tlwir own opinion, but all Hoosiers n•eognizl' that kind of talk as a defense mechanism used by foreigners \rho can daim nothing to compare with the pure art and beauty of 420 high schools all competing for one place. The one on top. 
i\lost of my out-of-state friends want to know just what makes lloosier Hysteria so special. Why do weddings get postponed, parades gPt planned. and alumni travel from all overthecountn to be Indiana \\'ht•n tlwir !Pam takes the tournament court? Why is the Indiana State Championship so much more emotional than those of other stares? 
ThPn' is no onl' answer. Cynics say that basketball is all Hoosiers have to get excited about. :\s I said. Pveryone is entitled to their own opinion. 
Sonw 1houghtfui people say it's because every team has a chance to takl' it all and cut down the baskets in Bloomington <back to In­dianapolis tll'Xt yearl. You see. there is no Class A--Class AA system. No harriers betwl•er.schools of 400 competing with schools of 4,000. If ~·our !Pam isn't the tallest. the best-dressed, the richest, or the one \\'ilh !he biggPst cheering section, maybe you do have a disadvantage. l~ul !hat makes victory just that much sweeter. Any team can make !Ill' final four--and at least one team each year is usually the "sen­tinwntal favorite" because of its sparse l'nrollmPnt. purple socks. or rural location. 
Sonw of the best individual basketball players every have come from Indiana and many have played in the state finals. There's been (;Porgl•l\1cGinnis. Steve I lowning, Bob Ford, Pete Trgovich, Tom and !lick VanArsdale and Indiana's pride. Oscar Robertson. 

Also l'Xciting is the style of basketball played. T;](' Indiana tour­nanwnt is dl•scribed as a whole new season. No matter what has come hl'fm·e. when sectionals start, some team with a less than impressive n•eord may have finally put it all together and be on the way to the statt• crown. 
Till' rule is usually run and gun--but rules are made to be broken. i\ltlan shocked.the stat(' .bv playing slo~down in 1954. Mostly they shocked Muncie by beatmg them 32-30 m the final game. 
That brings us to the real inside motive I had for writing this ('olu.mn .. It's called "ball control" and my alma mater, Bishop Noll lnstttute of Hammond. used it this winter to reach the Lafayette semi­
stall' and the "Swpet Sixteen" It was !he first time since 1957 ~hat Noll won a sectional and the first linw t'Vl'l' they won a regional. And it all came in a year when it was IPast <•xpected . lkcause this year BNI didn't have a "dream team," a potential Mr. Ba.skPtball. or~ state ranking. The Warriors didn't have exceptional lll'Ight. l'xceptiOnal speed or a lot or experience. \\'hat we had was a bunch of dedicated, intelligent, disciplined 
players and two patient and dedicated coaches who decided to do the h<•st with what they had and let the opposition worry about the out­l'Oilll'. Soml' people grumbled about a 30 second clock for shooting or making them speed up play. Those were the losers. H<•al basketball 
fans know the object is to do your best and go out andwin the way you t•an. The Indiana llniversity nickname is the Hurrying Hoosiers but this yl'ar tlu.•y slowed down. •l'oncentrating on ball control and defense. 
Tlwy upset a lot of people by winning {he Big Ten and going to the NCAA tournament. especially Minnesota. Could be there is something 111 this "ball control" husiness? 
Anyway. l'n• always beenpmudof my school. and there's more to that than just sports. We won a slate championship in baseball my fi·<•shman year :~nd it sure felt good to be in Indianapolis yelling "\\'<'n• Nn. I"and know you really were. 
. But thi.s y<•ar was a dirferent e~perience. I felt a bit ancient sitting !ugh up 111 the bleaclwrs at semt-state watching my friends' "little" hrotlwrs play for Noll. It was kind of odd watching the student l'll<'l'I'ing Sl'l'tion instead of being in the middle of it. But it was still "n:~·" tl'<llll wlwn lill'y walked off the court. They lost that game but liwy had al'l'omplishl'd a lot of things no one ever expected. And they had a lot of pridl'. I know. bl'cause some of it reached all the way up to sPctionl02. row 15. Sl'aliOofthe balcony. 
:\nd so. what is Hoosier ll~·stt•ria? l!'s wat('hing a :i'9" guard grab a rebound rrom a 6'9" center. It's a sehool with an t•nrollnwnt ol 1.700 selling 4,000 tickets to a 

lournanH'nt gamP HO miles away. l!'s dPcoratmg illl' family car with miles of crepe paper and l'iweking lo makl' sun· l'\'Prvone sel's it. l!'s h;lving 1om movi<'l'am.t•ras monitoring the crowd to make sure I hat t•xuht•ram·t• and anxi<'t~· dol•sn't find the wrong outlet. It·~ losing in !Ia• aftt•rnoon and staying for the night game to cheer 1\~r and \lilh anoliH'r sehool. fn\m anotlwr L'itv. ll's ;1 pla,\·t·r calll'd .o..,up<'rfly and a coach coinpared to Lombardv. l!'s a slnilg ot l'iil'iws 111 llw IHmwtowP :·"·"spaper describing · \IIlii' ll'<tlll as !Ill' hl'Sl l'\'t•r. ll's l'iH'l'ring. and laughtl'r. and !Pars. 
·''""·!his ~·par's tournanH'nt is m·pr and alrl'ady thousands of In­diana l11gh ,..dulOI haskt•thall pla~·<·rs and coachl's and fans an• tl11nking about nt•xt ~·l'ar. Tlw tH'\\' sl'ason is onlv 24H davs awav. Who 11 ill Wl'ar Ihost• championship rings nl'XI \lan·l]'i :'\obod~v can possibly r;no11 .\nd. 111 cast• ~·ou IHl\'t•n't gul•ssed by now--that's what lloosipr. 
ll\·stPna is all ahoul. 
Friday, March 23, 1973 
the observer 

Letters Ta A Lanely Oad an episode of. grace 
rev•rend rabert IJriffin 

It was early in the morning a week ago, in a motel r!;staurant of the Southland. thatjl young man, attracted by the) clerical collar, approached me qS I lingered over the breakfast coffee. He had spent the night with a wompn from the streets. he said: all.d he was feeling in a shabby mood. He was often in a shabby mood, he said, because there were many street women with whom he had spent the night, and there were motel rooms in a dozen cities where he had sinned against God with prostitutes in the darkness. Now he had reached the point he had heard the preacher talk about. He had reached the point where he needed to accept Christ as his personal saviour. Did 
I. as a man of God. feel that I could help him find God? Did I think I ('Ould lead him to accept Christ as his personal Lord and Saviour? 
Accepting Christ as one's Saviour is a Billy Graham-kind of idiom for conversion. It involves the belief that God has laid the punishment for all our sins upon Ihe back of Jesus: so that when .Jesus was scourged and crowned with thorns. and when He was nailed to the cross beams on the hill of Calvary,he was accepting torture from God his Father that should have been my torture, if I had been held accountable for my own lust and selfishness. deceit and dishonesty. God could have punished· me for my infidelities to His Grace and live: but my bodily crucifixion would not have opened up heaven for my soul. On my soul would have been imposed that grim. ancient curse; the wages of sin are death. 
Instead. the sinless Son died in 1he place of all sinners; He ac­cepted death on our behalf. If one believes this, if he accepts the faith that Christ died as our substitute, then he will be saved. Otherwise, for the unrepentant who fail to acknowledge the redemptive death of the Lord, hell awaits· as an l'verlasting bonfire, Hell is the abode of sinner'! and never-dying worms. 
So in the gray, early morning in a Texas motel. a young man who had scarely graduated from college wanted me to help him find his salvation in a redemptive scheme that makes the cruelty of God sound more odious than the crimes of men. 
He wanted me to help him accept Christ as his personal savior. The phrase reminded me of Baptist churches I had known as a high school boy in New England. Once upon a time, I received Christ as my own personal Saviour. The minister. that evening, had invited sinners seeking salvation to come forward. A high school classmate, already a "born again" Christian, had stood by my side, praying for me to walk the sinner's 1nile to the front of the church, where the preacher waited to offer me salvation in exchange for my acknowledgement that I was washing in the blood of the Lamb. The members of the Baptist Men's Bible Class were there also, praying for me; and one zealous deacon touched me on the head with a Bible opened to the verse of John 3:16: "For God so loved the world that He gave His only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth on Him should not perish, but have everlasting life." On the other side of the church, old ladies Iilted toward me with their en­couragement as though they were leaning into the wind where they rested on the support of I·~verlasting Arms. The choir sang the hyml): "Just as I am, Without one plea-But that thy blood was shed for me-and that thou birl.st me eome to thee -0 Lamb of God, I come. I come." 
When at last I moved out of the pew toward the salvation bench where all the graces of Calvary awaited to redeem my soul, the hallelujah tones were struck, and the Baptist Men's Bible class thumped their approval on their King James version; the old ladies lifted their hands toward the heavens. shouting, "To Jesus be the Glory." and I was invited to sing. ''When the Roll is Called up Yonder. I'll Be There." 
Nearly thirty years have passed since that evening when the Baptist -deacons numbered me. among the Saved of earth. My high school classm te who prayed by 
There's a concert for nearly version of the song, a version many every kind of musical taste in critics claim· ts better than the South Bend this weekend, so music original . and has most recently freaks take note. Actually, there's appeared in the role of the Acid only two concerts, but these two l~ueen on the new Tommy album <.'over such a wide range of fl'aturing the London Orchestra musical styles that there's sure to and Chambre Choir, a role she be something to please everyone. sang with relish. A good show of 
'FJ1e first concert is on Saturday mck and roll is promised here. night~at the ACC at 8:00. At that On Sunday night at 7:30, the timl'. thE' Fifth Dimension makes l\lorris Civic Auditorium will stage its annual tour of dulac, a concert the Paul Butterfield Better Days that hasn't. as usual, been group. With his third group, promoted on campus too much in Butterfield has tapped a wide deference to pulling in the South range of talent to make up what he Bt•nd residents. The fo'iflh ft•l•ls is his best group yet. Groups llinwnsion's mixed bag of music n•presented in Better Days are Dr. usually has something for .John. Taj Mahal. Kweskin Jug t'\'l'rybody. which makes them. Band. and Holy Moses. Other hoth a big group for nearly all age musicians featured have worked 
my side has been for many years now an ordained preacher among the Fundamentalists. Most of the old ladies, who sang of themselves as "heirs of salvation, purchase of God". have died in the Blessed · Assurance, Jesus is theirs. The Baptist Men's Bible class has suffered a few other backsliders like myself: the brother who placed his Testa~t upon my head. I heard recently, is now running a dance hall in Scar­borough, Maine, where. it is said, people drink. and men frolic with women who are not their wives. 
And now, in a morning in the Lone Star State, I was invited to combine in myself the roles of old school chum. Baptist Bible classmen, and congregation of saintly women, for the purpose of setting a sinner's feet upon the Glory Road. The shepherd and the 
sheepfold were represented by me·
I was to keep the lost lamb from e 
per~:~:Tieve in the Shepherd. I do I p0 p5 Concert ~ 
believe in the cherishing of lambs. ~ ~ I do believe in Christ as the .Savior _ 5_
5

of men. I do believe that the way of cross leads home. But that mor-~ O'Laughlin Auditorium =-~=-;
ning, I had a theological scruple: I 5 have a profound distaste for the 5 
belief that God punished His Son ::===5=­
for my sins. Recondite point of § March 23rd at 8:15 pm doctrine. you will mutter. A § splitting of the hairs of dogma as a 5! Ad • • game played by the clerical mind, s miSSIOn Free = 
you will complain. Perhaps so; but I have a pride in the gentleness 
of my God, and I will not submit to 
a theology that makes of Him the bogeyman of heaven. 
So. in the ten minutes allowed me between the ending of break­fast and the departure of the bus I 
was taking from that place with the Glee Club, I did what I could to offer a sinner the consolations of the Gospel without the horrors of the covenanted salvation of evangelism. 
I took him to my motel room where. out of a Gideon Bible, I read 
him the story of the prodigal son.
In that same chapter of Luke, I also read him the account of the Ninety-Nine and the One. 
"The Father and the Shepherd are metaphors for the same compassionate figure," I said, 


a weekend of music 
groups. Ml'mories of "Up. Up and ,\way:" "Aquarius:" Marilyn i\kCoo's series of love songs to Bill~· I><n:is including "W('dding Bell Blues:" and "Stone Soul l'ienie" and other oft-re-recorded 

joseph abel/ 

with such people as Eric Anderson, Happy and Artie Traum. Anne Murray and Eric Clapton. The album. B<>tter Days has only been in release since the beginning of the year and has been well t·eceived. 
On the same bill, Weather Ht•port will appear. This jazz group was nominated for a (;rammy this year as Best Jazz. Tlwir album. l Sing the Body F.l<>ctric. while being a rip-off from Hay Bradbury. is quite ex­traordinary and well done in the \'Pin of Jl:liles Davis and John i\ll'Lnughlin. 
So there you have it: pop. rock and roll. rhythm and blues. and jazz. Take your pick. 
songs, l'loat in and out of most Notre llanw and St. i\larv's students' nH'mnries when the ~roup is m<·nliorwd. :\los\ recently. they 

RoGERS 
han• hl'<'ll f('a\ ured on TV specials. most nolahl~·. "Burt Bacharach's Shangri-la ... 
Optical
l.<·ading off the Fifth I>iml'nsion ~how ll'ill lw rising superstar \IPITV ('lavlon. Hememhered most· for ht•r third \'Crse in· the Holling Slmws' "Gimme Shelh~P." slw has gom· on to record her own 
HOURS, MOO>! . lUES . TKUI • Fll 9 AM S,:JO NV. Wro • sAT 9 AM 12 NOON 
COMPI..fTE ~llCTACLE SERVICE ALL f'. ~ OR. 'S 

PIII'SCRlrTIONS I<ONOIEr 
C.,// 

289-7809 
L-------~~~---------------=~~------~ 
"and both are images of God who searches for us, when we are lost, like a diligent shepherd; and who awaits our homecoming like an anxious parent, pacing up and down in front of the house, frantic with worry until finally, he can celebrate the joy that he feels when he knows we will be safe in our beds at night, surrounded by the love and care of family." 
I said to him, "Can you believe this?'' 
He said, "I have so many sins. Can I really believe that Christ's blood wasshedfor me?" 
I said. "Christ gave His life that you might believe Him when He said that God loves you. 'Greater love than this no man has, that he lay down his life for his friend.' Christ loved us unto death, and in His love. the depth of God's love is revealed.'' 
It was all clumsy and fumbling and unsatisfactory. I left that young man in that motel room, meditating on the Fifteenth chapter of the Gospel of Luke. Whether he found his way to the Father's house that day where he eould be clasped in the paternal arms and kissed in the tender, gentle way that God sometimes has when he embraces a soul, I have no way of knowing. But that young man promised he would write to tell me. 
I tell you the story now only for the reason I needed to share it. At least it illustrates the episodes of grace that sometimes occur when one wears a clerical collar to breakfast. Because in truth though I feel like the anti-hero of the story, it was an experience of grace for me. 

illlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHIUUHBUIIWIUDDHIUD-IDH..IHUIHIIHIIIIIIIIIIHl_,_ 
niiiiJIHIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIUIDUILIII-IIHIIWdiiOIIOIIIIIIODIIIDIWUUnHuif 
LAKESIDE THEATRE PRESENTS· 
• 

Warren Beatty 
Faye Dunaway 



BONNIE AND CLYDE 
Fri & Sat March 23 & 24 8 & 10 pm Holy Cross Hall (NO) 

...,..,_::=========~~~~~==~=====-: 

i~r Ghdonial 
-Janraltt -aust 
"Enioy a snack or dinner" 
lS Varieties of Pancakes Chicken -Steak -Sandwiches 

U.S. 31 (Dixieway) North Your Host (Across from Holiday Inn) Bob Edwards '50 
MAIN CHURCH SUNDAY MASSES 

Fr. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 
5:15 pm Sat. Fr. J. Bernard Clark, C.S.C. 
9:30 am Sun. 

Fr. John Quinn 
10:45 am Sun. Fr. William Toohey, C.S.C. 
12: 15 pm Sun. 

"Evensong" vespers at 4:30 pm Sunday. Con­fessions are heard before each weekday mass and from 7:00 to 7:30 Monday through Saturday. 
',.
. 
the observer Friday, March 23, 1973 
Placement program working 
Summer jobs for students 
by Mike Kulczychi Staff Reporter 
Notre Dame's Alumni Association, sponsor of a pilot Summer Job Placement Program, is making lwadway in finding summer jobs for students, ac­cording to Assistant Director Michael E. Jordon, int<'rviewed yesterday. 
.Jordan said, "a very effective promotional program is under way" with a Summer Job Placement Chairman appointed in 30 to 40 area clubs, eoncentrated in urban areas, to publicize to alumni through newsletters and meetings of the need for information concerning summer jobs. 
.lim Clarke. Notre Dame junior assisting the Sumnwr Job Placement Program, described the process. Student applications accepted at the Placement Bureau Office were forwarded to area Alumni Clubs. Area clubs had appointed Summer Job Placement Chairmen, using their resources in the l'ommunity. to get names and addresses of prospt>ctive employees to send to students. It was then the student's responsibility to contact the em­ployer for an application and job possibilities. 
Present Situation 
Jordan explained, "For the most part, the Placement Committees are in the process of trying to determine where summer jobs are available through the alumni. As they receive information regarding jobs. they are systemically referring students who have filled out job resumes to those jobs." According to Jordan. if a student is contacted and has replied to a prospective employer, the student should ~lso notify either the Summer Job Placement Chairman (SJPCl or the President of the area Club. 
·•student cooperation in this regard will be vecy 
important for us to measure the overall program 
success." said Jordan, because the final tally of the 
number of jobs actually filled can only come from the 
Placement Chairmen of the area clubs. Jim Clarke 
also stressed the necessity of cooperation, since if the 
student does not follow through, the SJPC would have 
to notify other students of the job possibility. 
No Guarantee 
Neither Clarke nor Jordan could guarantee the 
results of the program, but they could guarantee the 
l'ffort. Clarke said, "The program was started to help 
the students, but they were not guaranteeing 
anything," but added, "I believe the clubs and groups 
have given their complete efforts." 
Jordan did not want to make a prediction or "go out 
on the limb" in giving the number of jobs to be filled, 
saying that he did not want to build up any false 
hopes. He felt much depended on the response from 
alumni members. Jordan also pointed out; "The 
greatest responsibility is with the students them­
selves in following up the job opportunities which 
they are referred to by the Clubs." 
Jordan emphasized, "It is stilJ extremely im­
portant for the students to pursue their job-bunting 
along any other line. It is advisable to follow up on 
any other job leads." Jordan recommended this to 
prevent "putting all your eggs in one basket." 
Alumni Association 
Alumni-student involvement was being considered 
by Clarke, a Student Government Research and 
Development Committee member in 1972, when he 
talked last spring with Placement Bureau Director 
Hichard Willemin and Executive Director of the 
Alumni Association James Cooney. Cooney took the 
proposal of a Summer Job Placement Program 
before the Alumni Senate. The Program was a major 
topic of five regional meetings of the Alumni Senate 
this fall. and met a favorable response. 
Placement Bureau Director Willemin, also in­
terviewed yesterday, said, "The Alumni Association 
is one of the best in the country because of the 
eloseness of feeling between alumni and students, and this program enhances it." He added, "We 

wanted the alumni in direct contact with the students 
on campus." 
Though the Placement Breau itself is in direct 
contact with 1200 employers, to either interview or 
receive resumes of students looking for work, 
Willemin felt it did not get the compahies involved or 
the students really interested. But Willemin hoped 
the students would continue and increase their use of 
the Placement Bureau's facilities in search of 
summer and permanent employment. He said, 
"Summer job opportunities are extremely important 
to the students, university, and employer." 
Area Clubs 

The St. Joseph County Notre Dame Club received 
the largest amount of applications, according to 
Jordan. close to 65. Chicago followed with 60 and New 
York with 55, from the total of 500 applicants. Clarke 
indicated the exact figures on students placed in jobs 
would not be available till May or June when the 
complete reports are in from the area Clubs. 
Jordan said the New York Club is probably doing the best in contacting the students and providing the greatest effort in getting information on jobs from alumni members. 
Jordan cited Atlanta, New York, San Diego and St. Petersburg-Tampa, among other area clubs, as providing a Placement Program locally in these past few years. These clubs would sent out resumes of students interested in summer employment directly to alumni. asking them to try to make summer work available to those students. This has also been carried out on an informal basis with students coming to the Alumni Association to direct job applications through the local club presidents on a smaller, in­dividual scale. 
Jordan said a good example of the Program is working is from Mr. Gary Dillon, co-chairman of the Summer Job Placement Committee of the Detroit Club. who has found a cemetary which needs five students for groundskeeping work. Dillon has already contacted several students who have applied from the . Detroit area, and now it is up to the students to make the final arrangements with the employer. 
Willemin said he just received a call Wednesday from the president of the Rochester. Club needing a few students with computer background to fill a number of positions requested. by the Xerox Cor­poration. · -:·. 
Higher and Higher Costs 
Jordan emphasized the role of tb.e Summer Job Placement Chairmen of the clubs as not being able to influence who is hired, but able to direct the student to who is hiring. Jordan said. ''We would like alumni who are in a position.to do SQ; to exert influence in the hiring to work as many Notre Dame students as possible." 
As a pilot program, Jordan said the Summer Job '· Placement activities will be continued: "We regard Ibis kind of activity as a .very crucialservice for students who are faced with the higher and higher costs, so the importance of a summer job is even greater, We fin(!. the program direcUy meeting the needs of the students." . 
A Dallas Notre Dame Club Newsletter pinpoints the problem for students, "With education costs going olit of sight. a good summer job can mean the difference, for some students, between staying or not at Notre 
Dame." 

Attention Entertainment: 
featuring: 

Paul Butterfield Better Days 
with Paul Butterfield on Harmonica and Piano 
Goeff Muldaur on Vocals Amos Garrett on Guitar Bill Rich on Bass Ronnie Barron on Keyboard Chris Parker on Drums 
Special Guest Star: 

Weather Report 
With Wayne Shorter on Sax Joe Zawonul on Piano 
M1ro Vitous on Bass Alphonse Mouzon on Drums A1rto Moreira on P!'rcussion 
IN CONCERT at Morris Civic Auditorium Sunday March 25 1973 Time: 7:30; door opens at 6:30 
T 'k• ~~ SS 00 Advance and SS.SO at the Door day of show. All seats 1, ''"'rvt•cl 
T • k• "'"' ilviHiabiC' ~t Morns Civ•c Auditorium box office between 11 00 ,, 111 .1nd 5 00 p.m da11y. t-rouqtll to vou by Atorn•( Procfurllons ancJ Universal Weasel 
(continued on page 7) 
Announcing SMC Coffeehouse Lower Level Cafeteria 

Hoogie Sandwiches 25 cents Friday March 23rd 8:30-2:00
Featuring: Tom Fought Theres Michoud Bill Blanford de Munson Pete Snake Joe Wenke 
Den Poen Singers 

Start your weekend at... 





Bulla shed 
(Corner of Bulla and Juniper across from Grace Tower) 
Mass and Dinner 5:00pm

Friday 
~=========================~ 
ALUMNI CLUB 

Fri:  Happy Hour  1/2  4-5:30  15' 'Beers  
Open 4-2 am  
Sat:  Live music from 9:00-?  

It's "Scotch Nite" Scotch 1i2 price all nightOpen 8-2 am 

APARTMENTS AVAILABLE FOR SEPT 73 
Come see the .Notre Dame Ave. Apartments. You are looking for modern living, we have the answer: 
CLOSE TO CAMPUS 
·2 LARGE BEDROOMS: ROOM FOR 4, S or 6 STUDENTS , 
LARGE KITCHEN, . DINING ROOM, AND 
PLENTY OF STORAGE .SPACE 
FULLY CARPETED UVING ROOM WITH A PRIVATE PATIO OR BALCONY PLUS AIR CONDITIONING · , . 
These Apartments are fuHy furnished and are coeducational. · . 

CALL 234-6647 OFFICE 919 SOUTH BEND AVE., SOUTH BEND 


STUDENT UNION PRESENTS THE TRIUMPHANT RETURN OF 
THE BEACH BOYS 
Saturday March 31 Tickets: $5.50, 4.50, 3.00 Tickets on sa[e at Student Union & ACC Ticket Offices Some good seats still available. Don't Wait, Buy NOW! 

In health careers 
NewMS progrmn at Harvmd 
An experimental, two-year elsewhere, and an awareness of Public Health with courses in t hes serious health problems in human biology and medicine;
Master's degree program to 
this nation. Until now they largely quantitative analysis of health prepare carefully selected college 
assumed that they could satisfy programs; environmental health graudates for careers as health their desires to prepare for evaluation and management; and planners. analysts or managers, meaningful health careers only perspectives on health care and will be launched in the fall of 1973 through entry into medical introduction to welfare and health by the Harvard School of Public schools." economics. Health. An extension to a doctoral Though anchored in the School of Dr. Hiatt said the program for program is comtemplated. Public Health, Dean Hiatt said the the second year will be undertaken 
Howard H. Hiatt, M.D., Dean of new program would be University­with faculty from the School of the Faculty of Public Health, wide in scope to provide students Public Health, the Harvard announced the launching of the with educational offerings ap­Business School and the J .F. program following its approval at propriate to their interests. Kennedy School of Government. a special meeting of the Public Dr. Hiatt said the new Harvard Students will have these options: Health faculty held Thursday School of Public Health program 1 -a health management­afternoon, January 25. would provide: oriented program developed with 
"The goal of this program," said 1 -background in biology and the Harvard Business School; Dr. Hiatt. "will be to prepare able, medicine sufficient to permit 2 -a health policy-orientedsocially concerned young people to graduates to deal knowledgeably program developed with the J.F. meet a need for professionals with physicians and biological Kennedy School of Government; sophisticated in medicine and scientists, and 3 -a program in several health 
health. on the one hand, and expert 2 -essential elements which are specialty areas offered by the in the analytic sciences on the lacking in medical education­School of Public Health. other. analytic sciences, economics, Students completing the two­
"This course comes at a time," administration and public policy. year program. said Dr. Hiatt, will he states, "when it is evident that The two-year program will in­receive a Master of Science there is a great social concern in clude a first year of graduate level degree.undergraduates at Harvard and work entirely at the School of Target size of the initial class will be approximately 20 students, said Dean Hiatt.


Job placement service 
Dr. Hiatt said that he recognized the possibility that some students,
(continued from page 6) 
after receiving the Master's 
Jordan pointed out the worth of this Program in a degree. would wish to continue and letter to Summer Job Placement Chairmen on obtain a doctorate. February 2: "Even ifonly one summer job match-up "Though a doctoral degree is not is completed, that's one more perhaps than might included in the present program," 
have been realized otherwise." he said. "we are hoping to be able 
Placement.uureau Director WiUemin stressed that to offer students who seek such a applications are still being accepted for tbe Summer degree an opportunity to obtain it Job Placement Program of the Alumni Association, through the School of Public and are sent out on a weekly basis to the area clubs. Health." 
t<;xcept for any recent applications, Jordan said, As currently ,envisaged such a "Right now our part is done. Itis up to the area clubs doctoral programwould inclUde an and the local employers to belp out." 
internship cooperatively arranged 
Clarke and Jordan had last contacted the Summer with a policy-making or operating Job Placement Chairmen by phone February 15, with health agency outside tbe School, plans to cheek again by phone in the next two weeks. Or. Hiatt noted, followed by the 
Clarke observed, "Mostdlairmen felt they would be preparation of a doctoral disser­pretty well set into the program by the middle of tation while taking elective sub­April." Both Clarke and Jordan stresled tbat if any jectsat an advanced level in health student had signed up, but lined up a job through and analytic disciplines. other sources. they should contact Jordan at 7!68 <8 
~· .t·.
a.m. to s p.m.\ or Clarke at l6U (after 10 p.m.). 
THE~ROMA

Jordan said any Summer Job Placement Chairman's name. address. and phone number woold be supplied 
welcomes

to stt dents wishing to make contact over the up­eom ing fo;aster break. 

ND·SMC students 


Abortion discussion 
Your host: Frank Anastasio "We'll make.vov a pizza you can't refuse"
lK'Iwren the needs of the child and the ftotus." Although the needs of
(continu~d from page I) 
~!.­

subject to the current level of 
l'llildren and the elderly may be 
*DELICIOUS
tt'<'hnology. and that with in­
parasitic. he continued, these
t-reased medical sophistication, 
ITALIAN FOOD 

JK'Ople do not violate anyone else's
the limit for legal termination of 
ri~hts. 
*PIZZA
pr~nancy l'OUid change towards 
Supp<irting. the rights of the
later in the pregnancy. 
unborn, Mcinerny said that 
*LIQUOR
i\ldnerny also argued the 
animals .as .wei\ as future
{'(lll('t'pt or "potential" life. saying. 
!!t'IU't'at ions have rights. Sub­
Dancing to the sophisticated jazz.
"the fetus is actually and not just 
S('qU('tllly. the fetus. though not a 
rock sounds of Bill Nicks Trio.
potentially alive. Although it is not ll('rson. also has rights. 
Open until 4:00am on weekends.
yt•t born. it has an identity from the 
Hl'SJXln<ting to the question of 
Happy Hours, II:30·7 :Oo daily
munwnt uf conception." 
\\'lwtlwr a m('ntally retarded child 
Spec~t prices lor drinks.
llr. Alan Nassar questioned 
For Deliveries

l'an ht• t•onsidered a person and
wlwtlwr a f el us is a person. 
Call 234·3251

tlwn•fort• have a right to lire. 
211 N. Michigan Ave.

"Tht• term 'human I win~.· " he 
".;assar J'('plied uncertainly. The
l'aid. t·oncerns a biophysical Downtown South Bend
stag(• at which a human being
l'lmet•pt. while "the concept of a 1Nt•xt to Morris Civic l 
l~t•t'llllH's a person is unclear. he
fl('l'son is a concept of inherent l'aid.
nllu(' and inherent dignity. A 
Friday, March 23, 1973 
the observer 

Nominations for GSU 
President , Vice President and Secretary-Treasurer are now being accepted 

All. interested Grads see Barry Wessels 102B 
N.S.H. for more information. 
Nominations close March 30th 



PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Main Bulldln& 
IWTD.VIEVS POl liED: OF Al'li.U. 2 
i.tltervt.-• &Te for tent.on ..ad Jl"ldll&te st...U.Su. Staa....., .che4ul.. art in Roc. 107, Hllln luUdin,. lnU:rvl• tt-.1 -.u~t boo tder:ted aad 1lgnad [or ln !"'Umt, iloar' ara 8:00 a ••• to S rOO P••· each day, elll:r-ept rrt..,.. The tl•e-t 
Henu,d ''"" additional tnro,_tlOD re~:ardint llatHTiev• 
and proceduna, 
kfC J·a~~,~~ .!at.,. 
Flu.nd.al AdvLicn:y Clinic. All Ltb. Arll aud But, Ad, Fonar-Forbe• Cla11 Ce!tiY. All M and allo\. 
AftliL 4 C!IH'r&l Electric Co,..,4verthlns and Publtc: Rd&UflfU 
a. ln Lib. Arts, BM to Nkt. 
A...lL S C!!pbdt Sale• co. All Lib, Attl and !ua, Ad. 
:~~~....~~: ln E.t. X.Uonal ..nk of nurolt, Ali Ill. 
APIIL 6 An-t11 Inct...tri•u, tnc. IS tn K.!. BiA tn\\ecc., Pta,, Nr:t. O.C•r *rer 6o co. 
u. •nd IIA r.,... Sal••· 1M 1• acc:c., l'f8S Vlth AtC:to b•Cir.IJround. 
f!llpl,.•r ILnt.;.r-aauoa. AlterMtt.n•, Tuchtna. a-r. 
a.c.tten/'f'oe.u:• eoq>s/'fhu. ~~rat knltu. 
....._ 222, M.tnlnr•UOIII lldJ. 
]/lZ/7) 

..;;=:==============================, 

CLASSIFIED ADS 
•.· 

WANTED HELP WANTED Desperately need ride to -Cleveland this weekend. 0111 
JOBS IN ACTION 
·Pete .WIO. 
Peace Corps and V_ISTA 
-
recruiters will be at Notre Dame 

·. Ride needed lor lrlend from 
and st. Mary's March 26·30 cleveland to NO this weekend Or' seeking volunteers for proiects :· sooner. Call John ,.10. starting this summer and fall. They want to talk with seniors and 
··wanted Good floor wats for 
grad students with degrees or Beach Bovs. Call Chuck ~. 
backgrounds in liberal arts. 

•. ---------­
engineering, business. ar. 
.Two need ride to New York City 
chitecture and law. The 

· this weekend. Call Dave 3679 or 
l'ecruiters will be in the Library
Rich 7d01. 
concourse every day and in various placement offices during the~~ See the ACTION people

.. \ :<._..;.·~-·-·....·•__.. ---F_O.._R_SA_~_E__·.......--­
now for a lob with a future. SONY TC·J52 ·D reel.to-reel tape deck.lhead, excellent condition. BUSINESS GRADS 
595. Call Steve, .J407. want to be a business leader, 
setting up co-ops and makingi6oo stereo for sate, receiver, things work the right way? Peace turntaole, speakers 9 months old, Corps and VISTA can give you $AOO or beSt olter. Call 1w.. that opportunity, These ACTION 
agencies have projects starting '63 Dodge Dart, good condition, this summer and fall in S7 rvns well. Call 23•·7792. countries and 49 states. See 
recruiters at Notre Dame In the For Sale Acoustic t:W amp. library March 26·30 or in the Casino concert P.A. Svstem. Best Business School March 26·27. oHer. after 7 . 234-•5.17. 
ARCHITECTS For Sale:· 1970 Dodge Super Bee Try some new designs with Peace ldl exit. cond. Must sell SISOO or Corps and VISTA, the. ACTION best otter. Call Steve at 21oJ7. agencies. Community DESIGN 
Centers across the country need For Sale: Wurlitzer Spinet Piano your skill. As an ACTION French Provincial • Ch..-ry Wood. volunteer for a year or two, you'll 
Call 272·3233. wort\-in creative projects. See 
recruiters at Notre Dame in the 1965 Triumph TIU 37,000 library March 26·30 or in the Ziebartcd, very sharp, 212·663<1. Architects School March 2d. 
67 MG family sedan lor sale 32 CIVIL ENGINEERS miles per Qallon. seats 5 people, In the Peace Corps working in any S275 or best. offer. 2dl·712d. of 57 different countries you'll use 
all of the skills you've developed Dl'luxe Portable Zig.Zag sewing thrOu!lh years of education; all in machine. 1973 model. a couple of years. o6!> an ACTION Automatically darns and makes volunleer you'll help build buttonholes. All accessories another coun tr·(. See the included. Excellent condition. recruiters at Notre Dame in the Sacrifice SIOO. 234·25•7. library March 26·30 or in the 
Enoineerin!l School March 26. 
'· 

.. 
Jlt'l'son has moral rights." 
Although the fetus is a human \wing. "that does not follow that it is a pl•rson. and it does not follow. tlwrl'fore. that a fetus has rights of anv kind," he said. 
\\'lll'n questioned regarding a ehild's dependence upon others in l'omparision of the fetus' depen­dance upon the mother. Binkley stat('d that "there is a difference 
STUDENT-FACUL TV PLAN 
FLY-DRIVEQ 
~o~~!~~e; 
plus car for summer For Free Folder write: 
Car-Tours in Europe, Inc. 
555 Fifth Ave.,N.Y.10017 /697-5800 
Name--------------------­
Address-------------­
______Tel. _______ 
Departing on ____for__days 
0 Sludenl 0 Teacher D Lease D Buy 
RANDALL'S INN DINNER 
Roast Round of Beef 
sliced to your liking 
Two additional hot entrees Potato and vegetable 
Plus: Our own oven hot potato bread 
assorted salads assorted desserts 
Only $3.90 All you can eat 
Served every Sunday 12 to 8 o'clock 
THE PEACH TREE RESTAURANT AT RANDALL'S INN TRAVELODGE 130 Dixieway North South Bend, IN. Phone 272-7373 
'69 Honda Mo-Ped (motorbike). 
Immaculate, under 5.000 miles. 
Call 2d7-99d4 & make an offer. 
1971 350 Honda SL 5600 miles, c~tom paint. Jack dSSO. 
NOTICES 
THIS SUNDAY'S PAUL BUT­TERFIELD BETTER DAYS CONCERT AT MORRIS CIVIC: TICKETS FOR SALE ROWS 5·8 RIGHT CENTER OF STAGE, MAIN FLOOR. FOR TICKETS OR INFORMATION. CALL 8253. 
There will be a GSU meeting this Friday 12 noon in 127 N .S.H. Please make arrangements so !hal alleasl one GSU Rep. from every Dept. attends Ihis meeting. 
FOR INFORMATION ABOUT GAY AWARENESS COM MUNITY, CALL 77cl9W-Th-F, cl-10 pm. 
Nominations for GSU President, Vice President and Secretary­Treasurer are now being ac­cepted. All interested Grads see Barry Wessels 102B N .S.H. tor more information. Nominations close March 30th. 
Trv a challenge alter graduation. 
LIBERAL ARTS GRADS Don't feel left out. Peace Corps and VISTA. the two ACTION agencies. need you too. we have projects in 57 countries and ~9 states, all using volunteers with qeneral education backgrounds as leachers. coordinators, etc. See recruiters al Noire Dame and St. MARY'S March 26-30 in the library concourse and at LeMans Hall. 
ST. MARY'S GRADS Peace Corps and VISTA recruilers will be al Notre Dame March 26 30 in the Library and at St. Mary's March 27 in LeMans Hall. We want to talk to education majors, science majors. pre law majors and liberal arts majors ,1bout volunteer opportunities in 57 countries and ~9 slates. Try ACTION tor a challenge after qraduation. 

the observer Friday, March 23, 1973 
Irish meet Tarheels in NIT semis 
allows them to play a pressing,
by Vic Dorr semi-final game with the Irish. 
sort of fast-paced game. That free
lJNC's Dean Smith, in his '72-'73 
substitution is one of the problems
The 1972-'73 basketball season team. has a quick, disciplined, 
we'll have to face. We'll have to
has been an up-and-down one for good-shooting squad which has the 
control the tempo of the game so
coach Dean Smith and the North bench to employ a very effective 
they don't wear us down."
Carolina Tarheels. pressing defense. The Tarheels are The year began on a sobering also a very physical team, and John Shumate, Notre Dame's 
note. when Sports Illustrated average 6-8 to 6-9 across their front other co-captain, agreed that picked the 'Heels to finish out of line. UNC's depth will pose a problem the top 20. The UNC cagers for the Irish, but the sophomore
They are led, offensively and
disproved that early-season center, who will have to battle
defensively, by George Karl, a
analysis during the regular' Stahl and Jones on the boards, saw
daring, gambling guard who
eampaign, though, and three other difficulties in the North
directs the tempo of the UNC floor
.wf;_eks ago entered the Atlantic Carolina roster.
game.
l<'oastl Conference tournament in 
"I expect this to be the most
(; reensboro, Nortlt C'a rolinal as "Karl is really tough," said ND 
physical game we've had all 
one of three teams favored to co-captain Gary Novak, while 
season," he said. "They have a big
capture the league crown. scanning the Tarheel line-up. 
front line, and are one of the most
"He's averaging something like 17
But instead of the ACC cham­disciplined teams in the country.
points a game, and is their
pionship, and the NCAA tourney They can play an aggressive man
defensive signalman as well. Then 
bid that accompanies it, the or a full-court pressing defense,
they've got Ed Stahl, a big, 6-8
Tarheels earned only disap­and can go all out because they do
sophomore who's averaging about 
pointment. They were upset by play as many as 15 men during a
13 a game. I watched him against
Wake Forest in the tournament's game."
Massachusetts, and he's realquarterfinal round, and eventually strong underneath and has a real "But we won't change anything accepted an invitation to New 
nice shot. because of that. We'll go with ourYork's NIT. 
regular game plan--we'll have to
Now. half-way through the "They have Bobby Jones, too, 
play a poised, disciplined type of
National Invitational Tournament, and he's another guy who's about 
game, we'll have to set the tempo, ,
the Tarheels are "up" again. They 6-8 or 6-9. One of the things about 
and we'll have to take the time to
bombed Oral Roberts in the first North Carolina, though, is the fact 
Gary Brokaw and his ND teammates will be looking for a semifinal
handle their press.
round. and clipped Massachusetts, that coach <Dean) Smith sub­
upset of North Carolina tomorrow afternoon.
73-63, in the quarterfinals, and will stitutes constantly. They play 12 "Mostly, though, we'll be trying
bring a 24-7 record into tomorrow's guys in every game, and that to control the boards. North Digger Phelps' Irish will play that much pressure," said Carolina's team is similar to another big game against another "Goose" Novak. "EverybodySouthern Cal's, and that's the kind national powerhouse. But Phelps' knows we have to win Saturdayof game I think we'll have against squad, after 17 wins against but we've played so many toughthem---a game similar to last similar competition, shouldn't be games all year that we're kind of Saturday's." adversely affected by the adjusted to it now. We have to play 
pressure. the way we know we can, and we
Last Saturday's game, of course, 
"I don't really think there'll be can beat them if we do."
34th and Seventh 
saw the Irish do all the things they wanted to. It saw them control the tempo of the game, it saw them beat the Trojans on the boards, and 
Ruggers open at 3-1 
it saw them come from behind to on one of the South's top clubs, the
win. 69-65. The Notre Dame rugby teamL.egends have never been easy things to create. They demand time, Miami Rugby Club. Miami en­opened its spring season over thepat1ence. and an aura-an aura of being the best there is regardless of the Tomorrow, against the Tarheels mid-semester break with a four­tered the contest with a 13-0 mark,
field of endeavor. ' game swing through Florida. while the Irish were involved inIn modern sports, particularly, legends have come few and far bet­Blache named returning home with a 3-1 record. only their second contest of thewPen. and there's .a. simple ~eason for that: the caliber of play, the season. The Irish gained an earlyThe ruggers first travelled tocahber of competition has mcreased tremendously during the past advantage on a pair of first-half J<:vansville, Indiana, to take on theseveral decades It has mcreased, in fact, to the point where genuine grid assistant penalty kiCks by Ed O'Connell,Evansville Rugby Club. Despite alegends are rare things indeed. 
which the 6-0

sluggish first half, the Irish gained gave ruggers aBut sports legends still exist, even in an era of twenty-game winners, 
Gregory Joseph Blache has been halftime lead. Miami came back
seven-footers. and thousand-yard runners. And one of the proudest a 6-0 halftime lead on a breakaway
named a fulltime assistant to head to tie the score and send into
by John Greving and a
legends exists in New York City, in downtown Manhattan, at 34th and run con­
football coach Ara Parseghian at version by Ed O'Connell. In the overtime. Both extra sessionsSeventh streets. Its name is Madison Square Garden. 
the University of Notre Dame, ended with the score tied, but
second half, the Irish got un­There are older facilities-Boston Garden, Chicago Stadium and 
Athletic Director Edward W. O'Connell hit on a penalty kick on
tracked and proceeded to put the~~a':ll.e~ Pavilion. to name three-and there may be more functional 
Krause announced today. the last _play of the third overtime 
game away. Jerry Razer playedlac1hhes. But none, anywhere, can match the I:Qystique which belongs to 
" Blache, a 1971 grauate of the llulstanding ball throughout the period to give the Irish a 9-6 win.
Madison Square Garden. 
University, will work with the 
1:-ip. scored two tries and Henry In the quarterfinals that af­J<:ven the name of the place conjures up images of basketball ex­
junior varsity program and the 
Clarke added another, while ternoon. the ruggers met thecellence. Images of Willis Reed and the '69-'70 Knicks; images of Marv 
prep team. He served both as a 
O'Connell converted after all three Atlanta Rugby Club in anotherAlbert. frenzied. shouting into a radio microphone: " ... DeBusschere's 
student assistant at Notre Dame 
scores to fashion. Notre Dame's overtime contest. After ashot from the corner--YES! --and the Celtics call for time out..."; images 
and later as a graduate assistant 
final margm of 24-0. scoreless first half, Atlanta gained of Digger Phelps, Charlie Yelverton, and th~ '7G-'71 Fordham Rams· 
while obtaining his master's 
The next stop for the Irish was a 3-0 lead which stood until theimages ofthe.game they call "the city game"--at its best. ' 
degreee in education. 
the Un:versity of Florida, where final '!linute of regulation play, but 
Tomorrow afternoon. when the Garden hosts Notre Dame in an NIT The 24-year-old native of New they participated in the Gator the Insh serum forced Atlanta into semifinal game against North Carolina, it will be hosting a team that is Orleans has a wife, Bernardine Invitational Tournament. Notre a situation which gave the Irish avery familiar with the Madison Square mystique. The game with the and son, Greg, Jr. He was a Dame. the defen,ding tourney penalty kick. O-Connell's boot wasTarheels will beND's fourth on the Garden floor this season, and the Irish defensive back on the 1967-68 Notre champions, faced stiff opposition good. tying the contest at 3-3. Inare beginning to feel almost at home in the sparkling glass and steel Dame freshman team before being from the start. although they overtime. Dave Simpson scored onarena. injured. Blache also earned three notched victories in the first two a try and O'Connell converted toPlaying in the Garden has special significance for three of coach letters each in football, basketball rounds of the tourney. give Notre Dame a 9-3 victorylligger Phelps' starters--guard Gary Brokaw. eenter John and track at Xavier Prep in New In the morning, Notre Dame took which. however, proved to beShumate. and forward Pete Crotty. Those three sophomores live in the Orleans. 
costly. Injuried forced TomNew York--New Jersey area, and they are most familiar with the aura Masenga Don Griewe to join thethat surrounds 34th and Seventh streets. 

already injured Herb Giorgio onParticularly familiar with it is Crotty, who hails from nearby Rockville the sidelines.

Center, New York. "It's just got such an air of tradition about it," he said, trying to pin down the Garden's mystique. ''The Knicks, the Yanks, Sunday's action found the Irish and the old Giants havemade New York bigpn sports, and it's like, well, in a semifinal match against if you do anything the people are goingftotnowaboutit. Virginia Tech. Notre Dame took a 
:1-0 halftime leadon a kick by

"I guess the Knicks really give the Garden that feeling of awe, but O'Connell. but"the Gobblers camethere's good basketball played there all around-on the college and local hack to score a try late in thelevels, too. And the place is like home for me and Broke and Shue. 
st>cond half to take a 4-3 lead. AThere's something for us to live up to when we play there but it's kick by O'Connell put the Irish

something you can't explain." ' hack in front. 6-3. However. withThe first time Crotty and the Irish played in the Garden this season thirty seconds remaining, an off­they did not play well at all, and they suffered a disappointing 70-69loss t~ side call against the Irish gavethe Fordham Rams. But since then, ND has won three straight in New TPeh a penalty kick, which wasYork, including opening-round and quarterfinal victories in the NIT. 
good for the 7-6 Tech victory.

"It affected me the wrong way," remembered Crotty. "I was nervous, \'irginia Tech went on to win theand was afraid of doing things wrong. I played an over-cautious kind of Hi-dub tourney. defeating Cornellganw. In the beginning it did have an effect on me, and on the other in tlw final game that afternoon.
playPrs. hut now that we've played there and practiced there, well, we're usPd to the place ... 
Nl l's next outing is a Saturday

lkgardless of the outcome of tomorrow's game with Dean Smith's honw game against Marquette.
Tarheels. the Irish will play in the Carden on Sunday. Should they (;amP time is 2 p.m., behinddl'fcat the 'Hpels. Nil will compete in the afternoon title game; should Stppan Center.
thl'y lose. they will play Sunday morning in a consolation match. But the l ·:\C gamP is the pivotal one. and the Irish are fortunate to be going into it \nth three games of Garden experience behind them. NIT return plans
"Tiw (;arden pressure we felt before will be off us now," said Crotty. "I nwan. there were't many students up there for our game with 
Tlw Notre Dame basketball

Louisville. but it felt like the majority of the crowd was still for us. It !Pam. following its appearance inalmost seems like we have the whole city behind us, and that will help, tlw 1972-'73 National Invitationall'specwlly agamst North Carolina. We're going to need everything we Tournament. will return to South t·an get aginst them. They're some team." 
Bl•nd on 1\londay afternoon.

The Notre Dame cagers won't enjoy an advantage they had last Coach I >igger Phelps and hisSaturday--they won't be playing in Nt.w York on St. Patrick's Day--but Irish eagers will arrive at the St.
they may have another, bigger factor in their favor. They may have the .Joe Airport at 12:22 p.m., and then:\ladison Square mystique on their side, just as Fordham's Rams had it will return to the Notre Dameback in February. 
eircle between 12:50 and 1:00 p.m. 














