
--~ 
On The Inside 
what  is  student  
government?  
... see page 7  

Marcel Marceau review ... see page 8 ~ 



serving the notre dome community
Vol. VII No. 83 Monday, February 19, 1973 

#Innocents legally killed' 
Rice seeks right to life laws 
by Leo Buchignani protection of the laws." Dr. Rice contends that by Hice argues that abortion is cruel and unusual Staff Reporter legalizing the killing of unborn children without due punishment. Justice Douglas defined unusual Professor Charles E. Rice of the Notre Dame Law process or equal protection of the laws, the Supreme punishment as that which "discriminates by reason School, a noted leader of the anti-abortion cause, Court has decided that the child in the womb is not a of race, religion, wealth, social position, or class ... " believes it is the duty of the Commission on Civil person. Dr. Rice views the unborn children as the only Hights to take a stand for the right to life because The Court decision that Dr. Rice opposes divides class which may be arbitrarily put to death without "Millions upon million of innocent children will be • the life of the fetus into three segments. In the first being guilty of crime. Furthermore, he contends legally killed by abortion ... The situation calls for three months of pregnancy, the state may not forbid that if Chicanos, Indians, or Negroes, the very sick forthright action to eliminate this denial of equal or regulate abortion, which is '.'left up the medical or the extremely aged were declared "non-persons" protection in the administration of justice." judgment of the pregnant woman's attending and denied the equal protection of the laws, the 
Dr. Rice has entered a complaint with the phsycian." The doctor decides on grounds of Commission on Civi1 Rights would certainly in­Commission on Civil Rights on the grounds that, maternal health, ignoring the unborn child's health ter.vene. Therefore, it is only right for them to in­according to federal law, "Any person may bring to and life. From the third month until viability, or tervene on behalf of yet another, and much more the attention of the Commission a grievance which ability to live outside of the womb (defined as 28 helpless minority group, the unborn children. he believes falls within the jurisdiction of the­weeks. but sometimes occurring as early as 24 According to Dr. Rice, "The innocent child in the Commission." The legal duty of the Commission weeksl, the state may not prohibit abortion but may womb may be killed for the convenience or comfort concerning Civil Rights issues is to "study and "regulate the abortion procedure in ways that are of others. No other human being is placed in a collect information concerning legal develop­reasonably related to rna ternal health." similar predicament under law ... As Rev. Theodore ments" and to "appraise the laws and policies of the l:<~inally, from viability until birth, the state may M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., former Chairman of the Federal Government with respect to denial of equal regulate or forbid abortion except where necessary Commission on Civil Rights said recently in another protection of the laws under the Constitution ... or in to preserve the mother's life or health, mental or context. 'No one has the right any more to play the administration of justice." psychological. However, Dr. Rice points out that a games with human life in America.' " 
In the complaint, Dr. Rice directs his case against medical opinion stating the mother's health is en­Therefore, Dr. Rice "demands that the United the liberalized abortion laws which will result from dangered is easy to obtain, and in effect allows States Commission on Civil Rights take immediate the Supreme Court decision of January 22, 1973. abortion up to the moment of birth. Furthermore, action to restore the civil right to live to the child in This decision struck down practically all laws after examining the New York City abortion rate, the womb, that the Commission conduct hearings forbidding or controlling abortion. The foundation Dr_ Hice believes that the human cost of the Court and that it take such other immediate steps as shall of his argument comes from the Fourteenth ruling will exceed the 1,600,000 legalized killings of be appropriate to 'study and collect information' Amendment to the Constitution, which provides, children per year predicted by medical authorities and 'appraise the laws and policies of the Federal "No state shall ... deprive any person of life, liberty, :n the New York Times. government' in relation to the denial of 'equal or property without due process of law; nor deny to Using Supreme Court Justice William Douglas 's protection of the laws ... ' in the administration of any person within its jurisdiction the equal opinion on the elimination of the death penalty, Dr. .iustice to the innocent child in the womb." 

Medical 1najor to be reva1nped 
by Bill McGinn hysteria about grades which the pressure from grades detracted programs. Pre-Professional studies, but in­
Staff Reporter pre-med exhibited in his quest of from this academic atmosphere, Perhaps the most innovative stead to having the chance to ask this goal. Some faculty thought while others objected to the suggestions was the recom­the committee to give them a cover that the pre-professional student unlimited power of the Chairman mendation for the establishment of letter.

Calling the theme of their was more concerned about his of the Pre-Professional Office and a standing Faculty Advisory This Committee was appointeddeliberations "the psychological gradepoint average than about the fact that he could write a "non­Committee with a charge to by the Provost last February topressures that are faced by Notre 
learning. positive" cover letter on a monitor both programs. It would assess and recommend im­Dame students who are preparing In an interview. Professor student's medical school ap­coordinate the Health Sciences and provements for the existing Notrefor medical and health careers," 
Freeman explained that he doesn't plication dossier. the Human and Behavioral Dame pre-professional programs. 

members of the Committee to 
think that the pre-professional Sciences health programs. As a

The Pre-Professional Office The Committee includedReview the Preprofessional 
programs, even with their grade Subcommittee again recognized first priority it was suggested that Chariman Richard Kurtz,Programs discussed the recom­

pressure, produce any more this standing committee consider
that strong emphasis is placed on Professor Jeremiah Freeman,mendations which they have cheating than is found elsewhere in the pre-med student from the changes in the present system of Professor Kenyon Tweedell, threeforwarded to Fr. James T. Burt­the University. He emphasized beginning of his studies at Notre distribution of letters of recom­doctors, and six graduates of Notre chaell, university provost. 

that. "there is nothing inherent in mendations for those students

The report, originally published Dame. Counseling and guidance Dame's pre-professional
the pre-professional programs to applying to medical school. programs. Professor Freeman

in this week's Notre Dame Report, based upon the student's grade 
cause cheating.'' What cheating Prolessor Freeman saw the indica ted that the problem of
point average continually informs

was 11 months in preparation. 
that does exist he believes to occur the student of his chances of ·possibility of students having an cheating in these programs was

The recommendations are: 
--designating the College of on "desperation quizzes," where a success in applying to medical option to not request a cover letter not an unimportant reason for the Science program "Health student cheats as a last resort school. It was emphasized that the from the Chairman of the Office of ·creation of thrs Committee. 
because he hasn't had time to _do

Sciences." vast majority of pre-professional --establishing a new in-the proper amount of studying. students are only interested in 
The faculty who were in­

terdisciplinary program in the getting into medical school, and 
terviewed felt that there were two

College of Arts and Letters to be express little interest in other 
main problems in the pre­
paramedical careers. This ex­

called "Human and Behavioral professional programs: the poor
Sciences." plains the narrow direction taken 
coordination between the College 
by the counseling services of the

--establishing a counseling of Science program and the pre-professional office.
service for medical, health and College of Arts and Letters pre; 
The Pre-Professional

related careers. 
professional program and the fate 
Curriculum Subcommittee stated

--the counseling office suggested of students who apply, but who are 
that since there are certain

abo<'e should "refrain from the later denied entrance to medical 
required courses for qualifying for 

display of 'success rate' symbols" school. 
medical school acceptance, that it

and emphasize career choices. 
The more than 180 pre­
would be beneficial to have a

--the counseling office should professional students who were 
universal pre-professional

devote resources to recruit and interviewed held views which were 
curriculum for undergraduates of

supplement the education of 
amazingly similar to those ex­
different backgrounds and in­

minority students in medical and pressed by the faculty. The great 
terests who desired to go to

health fields. 
majority of students recognized 
medical school. Such a universal

--establishing a standing Faculti' the enormous pressures upon the 
pre-professional curriculum would 

Advisory committee to monitor 
pre-med stemming from the 
allow the students to take the t.

both college's programs, and 
shortage of places in medical required science courses and still _:;~;­--changing the core curriculum schools. Therefore. for the pre­"tailor thieir undergraduaterequirements for Health Science-­med the grade point average holds careers."

Human and Behavioral Science. 
great significance and this is The Committee also called forstudents. 

reflected in the monastic life which improved cooperation between the 

Interviews with faculty, ad­
ministrators and students con­many students lead in an effort to College of Science and the Arts and 
come out on top of the ~om petition. Letters pre-professional nroPram. 

nected with the pre-professional 
programs were conducted by the It was discovered that many un­It urged the establishment of a 
dergraduates chose Notre Dame 
counseling service to the new

Student-Faculty Subcommittee. 
The twenty-six faculty members because of its high (seventy per­program, one similar to the Fresh­
cent> success rate in medical

interviewed described the pre-med man Year counseling service. It 
school acceptances. Many was also suggested that this

student as "a serious, highly 
.s.tudents · 
counseling office refrain from the

motivated, grade conscious in­expreseed praist! for the high use of "success rate" symbols.
dividual who has a sharpened goal quality of education of the The Committee also called for thein life." That goal is medical 
programs and the pre-professional .,....
recruitment of more minority

school, and many professors were office's tiJlformation services. 
students as well as women into the 

disappointed with the mass Some complained that the 
Notre Dame pre-professional 

Student volunteers find working at Logan Center a fulfilling ex­perience. It's amazing what a smile can cure. 
• 
J •~ 
the observer Monday, February 19, 1973 


·warld ·briefs 
(c) 1973 New York Times 

Saigon---The recent increase in post cease-fire warfare in Vietnam showed no signs of abating Sunday, despite an urgent appeal by the Four-Party Joint Military Commission for an immediate end to 
·: hostilities. South Vietnam military spokesmen put full blame for the continued fighting on the Communists. 
New York---Frank Costello, the racketeer, died at Doctors Hospital at the age of 82 of a heart attack. He was one of the most notorious American gangsters, and was a symbol of the power held by the un­derworld in politics, business and other phases of American life. His real name was Francesco Castiglia, and he was a native of Calabria, Italy. His boyhood was spent in Harlem and Greenwich Village. His United States citizenship was revoked in 1961, because it;; application was based on a lie. His wife, Loretta, his only survivor, was with him when he died. 
London---Authorities across Europe are putting some brakes on the sexual revolution. The reasons vary, and not all are in the interests of cultural Puritanism. Tighter reins are apparent in Denmark, Sweden, West Germany, ~ritain, France, Italy and Yugoslavia--where, as they say. "The porn IS red." 
BullaSb.ed to open tonight 
An open house will be held Monday night to celebrate the grand opening of Notre Dame's "newest'' facility for students. 
It's .the "Bulla Shed", a house at the corner of Bulla and Juniper \across the street from Grace Tower and the Library and a bit closer to Grace.) 
Formerly the cottage housed the C't't>dit Union. Now Campus Ministry has taken over the home to serve the needs of students from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
All are invited to stop by the Bulla Shed between 7 p.m. and 11 
p.m. ~Iunday fur some rehesh­m(lnts and a chance to see this uniquely renovated building which 
includes a rather large living room. two attracttve smaller rooms. and the kitchen. Only the 
venturesome will be allowed to peek into the basement, which still is in the process of total recon­~I ruction. 
Since early November a group of l'ludents has worked with Fr. Tom SIE:'lla and architecture student Hichard "Ders" Anderson to renovate the house. It is designed to provide a "get away" spot for those who want to escape campus halls to study, talk or just relax. Also. it will be a "drop in"place for off campus students who now have no quartersihey~an call their 

1
own. 

The Bulla Shed will be open . from about 1 p.m. to 1 a.m. on 1. \\'rekdays. and later on weekends. 1: .. , 
"Weekends are notoriously lonely times for many students at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's.'" savs Father Stella. "Those of us \\'lio are operating the Bulla Shed 
feel that it can provide an alter­
native to students who are tired of hall parties and bar-hopping. It \\'ill be a place where you can
• 
really meet people. What type of activities will take 

Bulla Shed is flexible enough to . serve many needs, depending on the situation. For example, it is ideal for small discussions. in­formal liturgies, movies for small groups. and other entertainment. <It won't be a "party house" though. Stella cautions.) Groups on campus who need a place to meet also will be able to schedule activities there, perhaps for a small fee to cover upkeep. 
"All of us on Campus Ministry would like to invite students, faculty. hall staff, and ad­ministration to stop by and take a 


look." Stella says. "Perhaps the Fr. Tom Stella: the Bulla Shed can Bulla Shed is a place where you prol'ide an alternative to hai: wouW like ~ spend some time." parties and ba~hopping. 
!p


' rotestant servl·ces
ff d

0 ere unattended
I 
Mary Egan Staff Reporter 
"Protestant services have been available for three years on the Notre Dame campus," stated Campus Ministry Director Fr. William Toohey when asked about the black students' question of non· Catholic services on campus. 
No black students requested that Fr. Toohey of Campus Ministry help provide additional services, he said. 

. !:m:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::;::::: 
help available 
However. Toohey said he was "only too happy to work with them to find a black preacher to come on campus or arrange transporation to go downtown for services.'' 
Toohey said, "If there are black students who are genuinely searching for church services, I would be very anxious to meet with 
_ 

thE:'m  and  try  to  see  that  their  
'1eeds  are met.''  
services not attended  

Of the approximately 400 non-Catholics on campus, about five percent of the total enrollment, "few students have taken ad­vantage of the Protestant services in the last two years," stated Fr. Toohey. "It seems that for the most part. the needs youth in 
(continued on page 11) 
-~ 

The Observer is published daily during j
the college semester except vacations by
the students of the l'niversity of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Sub-scr.tptions may be purchased for sa per
semester (14 per year) from The Ob­
server, [\ox Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre 
••• campu• taday 

10: OOam  &  3:30pm--lecture,  ruth  
bowman,  curator  of  the  new  york  
university collection, art gallery.  

7: 
30--meeting, celtic society, inter­national room, Iafortune. 

7: 
JO p.m.--duplicate bridge, Iafortune rathskellar 



B: 00--movie, the magnificent ambersons, 
1.00, patrons free, engineering auditorium. 8:00--lecture, meaning, searle, philosophy perspective series, library auditorium. 
8: 
00--movie, hero as artist, civilization film series, free, university club. 

8: 
CO--meeting, continuing education for clergy, thru :wed., c.c.e. 




SPECIAL WEEKEND ROOM RATES FOR NOTRE DAME PARENTS OR VISITORS 
$6.95  $8.95  
Single occupancy  Double occupancy  
No  Notre  Dame  identification  required,  just  

mention this ad. Effective any Fri., Sat. or Sun. thru June 15th, 1973 except for the weekend of May 18th. 
HICKORY INN MOTEL 50520 U.S. 31 North South Bend, Indiana 46635 

{219) 272-7555 
3 miles North of the Tollroad. 
Cable T.V., Air Cond., Phones Send this ad to your Parents. 
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 

AT'S BOOKSTORE 
National Lampoon Ms. Playboy 
for the best in 

CENSORED READING 
Student Gov't Offices 
~ace there? Stella says that the .vears._. -~~~~~~~~~~D=a=m=e=.=l=nd=.=4=65=56=.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
ANYONE INTERESTED IN APPLYING FOR STUDENT UNION DIRECTOR FOR 
1973-74 CALL· 7757 OR STOP UP AT 

THE 4th FLOOR La FORTUNE 
• 

J
~---------------------------------~~-~------------------­

Monday, February 19, 1973 the observer 
3 
Hess & Davis declare candidacy 
by Ted Guth and Tom Mirabito Staff Reporters 
Calling for the creation of a "real C'hristian community" at Notre Dame, junior Mike Hess, and sophomore Mike Davis announced iheir candidacies for the top student government offices yesterday in Badin Hall. 
"Notre Dame is not a Christian community. It is not even a community," commented Davis, a resident of Alumni Hall. Yet he noted that the University has "unreal possibilities" for the development as a place for in­teraction among people, and that <tS leaders of student government, lw and Hess would work to fulfill them. 
In view of this objective, Hess, a Flanner government major, promised to make the renovation of LaFortune the number one priority of his administration. With the advent of coeducation, he 
. stated, "a need for a common meeting place away from the halls has developed, and a renovated LaFortunate could meet this need.'' 
Another important plank in their platform is a committment to strive for increased com­munication and cooperation among student leaders. They proposed to do this through giving the HPC the use of the Student Government offices and facilities, making the HPC chairman a voting member of the Student Government cabinet, and in· stituting a "revenue sharing" program to return part of the Student Activities Fee to the halls on a per capita basis. Both also suggested Student Government 
Pizza parlor sought in Lafortune face-lift 
Tom Bundy Staff Reporter 

The LaFortune Renovation Committee met yesterday with Edmund Price, director of Food Services, to discuss related issues concerning possible renovation plans. 
Chairman Ken Knevel presented an idea to build a small pub and pizza place in the basement of LaFortune Student Center. The proposed pub would have live music and provide a social at­
mosphere  where  students  could  
gather.  
Plans  for  the  Huddle  include  

reducing the counter space and providing additional dining space 
Senior Fellow selection dueTues· 
Senior Class President Jim Hunt announced last night that Senior Fellow nominations would be open today and Tuesday from 9 a.m. to 4 
p.m. in the student government offices. All nominations must be 
accompanied  by  20  senior  
signatures  and  their  respective  
1.0. numbers.  

Hunt noted the absence of a formal constitution regulating procedure of the Senior Fellow. 
"If it turns out to be too much of a farce, the class officers may call for a termination of the event," he 
ND·SMC WINTER RETREAT 
An experience in Christian sharing 
Sat. Feb. 24 1 0 am-8pm in the SMC Clubhouse 
For Info call Roger Cormier -5389 or Mary Gail Peterson • 4494 or Fr. Tom Stella • 7323 or 6536 
before noon Thursday 
llniversitv has an obligation to help off campus students." However. with University aid not forthcoming, Hess promised to make every effort to run the program solely through Student Government funding. 
Hess also felt that many aspects Jf community life could ue im­proved just by using present facilities to their fullest extent
' 
such as allowing students to eat at the dining hall of their choice or installing moveable baskets' in Stepan Center for use by North Quad residents in bad weather. 
Hess and Davis also called for an extended ombudsman service student and faculty participatio~ on the Board of Trustees, equality of male and female students in all aspects of University life, and the extension of the Black Cultural Arts Center. 
Proesel names appointments to personal staff 
Stude~ Government Art Cura!or. Mark Proesel, named Tim Ryan, Bill Heylman, and Jim Fe!ster to his staff. These ap­pomtments wi11 be effective immediately. Larry Anderson has been given the appointment of artist-in-residence for the student government. 
An office expansion is planned by the art curator for sometime in March. An art exposition in the student government offices is being considered for the end of March. Prosesel will be chair­personing the event. . 
W R B R presents 
McKENDREE SPRING 
with THE FLOCK and ETHOS 
Fri. Feb. 23 .. 7:30p.m. 
Morris Civic Aud. 
4.50 advance $5.00 day of concert A11 seats. reserved 
Tickets Available at: 
AUDITORIUM BOX OFFICE 
12-5 daily and Pandora's Book Store 

PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Main Building 
DITF.RVUWS FOI WEU 01" P'EilltUAAY 26 

Interview• are-for nnion artd ~ndU~~t• atu<lenu. st,n--up schedule• are in RO(IIa 201, Main !ulldinR. lntervl.,., tl-• """'t be selected and ai~ned for in person, Houri arc 8:00 a .... to 
5:00 p,.,, each day, nupt Frid11y. The Plact'tWnt ~nual p:ivu adc!itional tnfonn.~tlon re~~:ardln~~; lntrrvt-• and procedure111, 
FElL 26 Cil:)l Nati.:tnJil S.nk. o\ll BM., Clairol, Inc. All SA .and I &A, tev('r Brothtu Co. BA, BB.A, tiM. Hone Chain -tHv. of Bort-Warr~u Corp. Aft BBo\. 8S in En~~:r. 
FElL 27 o\YCO ElKtroniu Dlvhlon. 
1!5 tn E.!. 
Bownoan Product• Dtvtslcm•o\aaociatrd Spril'\!l Corp. 
!A tn !CI'Ml. SM tn !1J:t. and l"ttl.t. 
Carrter Corpont\0!'1, 
BS tn H.E. tnd H.E. 1-C'I. 
Indiana kU Tehpl\one Co. 
BM tn ,_t. and !to-t. as in 1.1. 
l'll:nto~ Pl.lbllc ~hoots. 
M, 11A.. Tnt:htnp:-tfl.-nittea. !1Ut~l Llh tn111ranc~ CO!IIIJ!nV or New york.. !A, RB.A, !"IKA. 
FE!. 28 Coll•a• ur. rouun~ce-eo. 
Ali lA a~d IV., 
Electronic O.u Syn._. Corp. 
:-iBo\ vt.th Techrtical or Non-technical hackp.:rOUf'ld. 
Con.nonvulth tdtaon Co. 
BS, KS ln E.!. BS ln C.E., M.E., !1.£.N.l'. 
fiM in An:t, 
Contatn._r Corporation of ~rica. 
II!A and~. 
t-T-E t-rerhl corporation. 
liS tn E.E., 1'1.!., H.E.t.O. 
UAlCO Incoreeru•d. 
All 8A and BM. 
1'\AR. 1 Coodyrar Tlrr &. Rubb•r Cc-p!n.... 
as an Ch.!. ..,d !1.£. liM tn Acct. 
ttuldu & s.. n •. 
liM in At:U, !114, 
,..nufactur•n &.Ink. 
I'IM and liM.. 
Metropoliur-. Uh Insur•nc• Co . 
..... 
Seau, Rolbo.Kk and Co. -btail Hit. All aachelor «•~:rre candidat••· S••r•. loeb>Kk tnd Co. -Oat• P'roc .. ntna. All def:r•~"• 1nd •lor,, York At~ Condttl~ln&. BS, 1"15 in 1'1.!:. 
AA. 2 ~chotel Corpoution. IS, MS in C.E., !'I.E., C.£ .. 1'1.1'., l't.[.~.(l,, f.f:. {pou•r opt to. oah) Corntna Clu• Worh. BIA. aftd KM. ~neral l'toton Corporatl(IO't,
.... 
S, 5. IC.UIII' eo.p.!ny, 
All BaA. 
Penn l"'ut-l '"'"rani[• Co. 
All M and IM. 
SS.'I'IPflt 6 LUDdy. 
IS, K5 tn r.f'., N.l., C.E. 
l'Grt AuttlotlfY cf ,...., York .., ~!.!!!· 
Jlo\ al'd MIA. S.ara. lt~buck and Co. • Corrorat• T•• Dh. 114 In Acct. KIA ¥Uh .\cC't. bac-k~~;r-111. 
blplcty4'1' info~tlon .•\IU•fn.att"''· T•achotnll. s-r. A.cttanf ...•c• Corpe/Ytua. fr-H,•l S•noict', ·-211, ••tlllllf&ttOft lldl. 
f\\/1) 

\ 
j 
I 
I 
j j 

change its name to "Student Association." 
In addition. they proposed set­ting up an "Off Campus Fund" with a portion of the Student Government revenues to be used to setup necessary programs for off­campus students, including a food co-op. a Tenement's Union with legal aid services. and possibly an off campus shuttle bus service. 
Hess said that he was hoping for University aid . in funding and running these programs, remarking that "even if only one student is forced off campus, the 

Mike Hess and Mike Davis: the University is not a Christian com­munity but has possibilities for development. 
both in the Huddle itself and elsewhere within LaFortune. Also mentioned was the possibility of a sundeck dining area located on the roof over the billiards room 
Knevel proposed drawing students to LaFortune by allowing them to use meal cards at the Huddle. In response to this idea, Mr. Price commented, "Anything can be made to work, but ultimately the student must pay for it." Hepointedoutthatsucha plan would eliminate Huddle t·evenues which go to the Univer­sity. and would pose a problem in accounting for meals eaten at the Huddle. 
Within the next few weeks, an 
said. Due to the funding of tne event by the University, he said that the senior class did not want to "jeopardize the tradition of the Senior Fellow award" by asking for funds for a joke recipient. 
However. he added. all nominees would be contacted concerning acceptance of the award. 
Granting of the award is dependent not only on the senior class choice. but on the availability of the candidate to appear on campus and the expense required to bring him to campus. 
mformation center will be set up on the second floor of the building. Here students can find out current plans for renovation and suggest any ideas they might have. 
Other renovation plans include: a coffee shop, music listening jacks and headphones, and-a play area outside with swings shuf­fleboard and tether-balL ' 

The LaFortune Renovation Committee discussed basement pub and dining areas. 
Saeko Schinoke and Company FEB. 27 8p.m. O'Laughlin Aud. Tickets on sale today! 
Nat'l Bank, Pandora's, Jennifer's 

the observer Monday, February 19, 1973 
Study in

Delong explains Free University 
Guadalajara, Mexico 
Mary Janca depth study of Bob Dylan and his 
Staff Reporter music, Oregami. Backpacking and 
Bicycl ing. 

"Free University is an attempt Classes, he added, are not to broaden the education and to get structured. Content and the style students as well as professors of teaching depends upon the involved in teaching," explained teacher leaving it as free as .Jim Delong, the chairman of Free possible. Delong stated. University. Classes meet once a week, and 
The program offers free, non­their location is determined by the eredit. non-graded courses in nature of the course, he added. nineteen areas where students Courses have been in session have expressed an interest and an since the beginning of the instructor is available, he con­semester. and will continue Iinued. Subjects include an in-through May, Delong said. In-
Lack of equipment plagues filmmakers 
oy George Brown Staff Reporter 
Providing necessary equipment as well as technical know-how have been the greatest problems laced hy the Kinetescope Film­makers this year. stressed Jim n~·er. spokesman for the student­run club. 
Established to provide equip­ment as well as a forum for ideas, Dyer recently remarked that a grant of $500 from Student {;overnment last October allowed the club to purchase the camera equipment. 
"The most frustrating thing for someone trying to make a film." Dyer said:'ishow to get around the problem of producing the technical effects I wanted without the pro{>ell' equipment. Improvising more often than not produces inferior a·esults." 
Need PermanentjStructure 
Dver further stated that film­making should remain per­manently on the campus. 
"What is needed," he explained, "is that filmmaking remain year after year even though students graduate or change their interests. 
This is not possible without university support." 
A permanent location for filmmaking equipment. such as a room in LaFortune Center, with technical instruction available for beginning students and facilities for filmmaking to be used by those more advanced was suggested by Dyer. 
Future Proposals 

Dyer hoped the university would add filmmaking as a course to stimulate interest and make more equipment available for student use. 
"One of the most sought after courses offered are the still­photography classes now being taught. It is ridiculous to think that even though most high schools teach filmmaking, it is not being taught here at Notre Dame," Dyer Pmphasized. "It seems ironic with such a demand that some thirteen year old is creating in a way a college student here cannot." 
Presently, the Art Department has some 16 m.m. as wellas some Super 8 m.m. camera equipment available for use on a selective basis. 
terested students can still sign up for a course by contacting the instructor whose phone number appears after the course description on posters distributed throghout the campus. 
"Ideas for courses and in­structors came mostly from people ealling in. and offering to teach the course." he said. 
The entire program, Delong continued. is free. All thirty-five people involved in the Free lfniversity are volunteers. "There is no tuition. People are teaching for free. and donating their time teaching," he stated. 
However. students participating in art course, for example, must supply their own materials. the ehairman added. 
As a rPsult of thesecourses.Free University plans to set up a "platform" where Delong ex­plained. talented people can demonstrate their skills and anyone on campus can participate. 
Activities will include folk music, classical piano, poetry readings, plays, ceramics. and can­dlemaking. he added. 
Delong plans to launch the "platform" April 24 through May 
H. and is scheduling events to cover noon-time, weekends, and evenings. 
Student response to the Free l fniversity. stated Delong, has heen extremely surprising. "I thought that possibly a few of the courses would get some response," he commented, "but we had a response for every single course." 
Objectives for next year, he continued. include "more courses; some for credit if possible." Delong also hopes that Free University can provide "more access to what kind of education is going on here which nobody really sees or takes advantage of because of poor communication or lack of knowledge." Finally, he would like to see Free University used more as "a vehicle for people with talent." 
Free University, according to Larry Pino. former ('hail·man, originated four years ago as an alternative to structured classes. These were non-academic courses, \\'hich could not be entered into the curriculum and were of interest to on!~· two or three students. 
(continued on page 11) 
WANTED 

Ad Salesman for Observer. Must be willing to work 10-20 hours a week and provide transportation. Good pay. Contact Joe Butler at 7 471. 
PRE·CANA 

Notre Dame and St. Maryls students who are interested in participating in this 
yearls Pre-Cana discussions may sign up 
in the Campus Ministry Office or by phone 
(6~36). Registration closes March 7. 
Discussions will be on March 25th, April 
1st and April 8th. 
Sponsored by Campus Ministry 

Fully accrtdlttd, 20·ytar UNIVER­SITY OF ARIZONA Guadalajara Summtr School offers July 2-Aueust 11, anthropoloay, art, education, folklore, fiOfrlphy, history, fOV­trn•nt, lanauart and literature. Tuition $165; board and room $211. Wrltt: International Procrams, Unl· verstty of Arizona, Tucson 85721. 


SPRING ELECTION EXTRAVAGANZA 
Attention: You may have already won! 
First Prize: SAP 
Second Prize: Editorial Position with The Absurder One More Day To Enter!! 
All You Need Is 100 Names And 1.0. NumbersII 
Special Prize To The 1OOth Entrant 
(Void Where where prohibited by law ) 
( Add sales fax where applicable) 
CALL 7668 for full details. 

Monday, February 19, 1973 the observer 
5 




Student Union 
Social ~commission presents I I 

e e 
"A SPLASH PARTY AT THE ROCK" 
Feb. 23 9·12 

The big splash of the year is at the Rockne Building swimming pool. If your parties always take a dive we guarantee you won't get board. Get interviewed over WSND's radio waves by Kevin (Dick Clark) O'Neill who is MCing the fun. 
Guys • "Ed" can suit you. Girls • Bring your bikinis Admission • Show an IDcard and don't bring any food or drink 
to the rock.
Don't miss it • it's free style 

'~SOUTH SHORE TRAIN PARTY & CHICAGO TOUR" 
We rented the South Shore Train for a party round trip to Chicago and an optional tour. 
Trip schedules: -transportation to & from the station March 24 (all day) ·round trip to Chicago & back leaves at 7:15am 
• Dixieland Band return at 9:00 pm ·Bud & Mick have a full ticket home ·bring your own cabooze in the morning 
Plus Tour: ·Hancock Building Observatory ·3 hr. tour of Chicago 
·Lunch at Notre Dame's Famous Johnny Lattners Marine Tower Restuarant. 
Conductor says: $8 for roundtrip to Chicago only $11 for trip & tour & lunch Limited to 150 people • so get tickets quick at the Ticket Office. 
March 26 HYPNOTIST ·DR. IRWIN ROSS 
8 pm Eng Aud. FREE 

Watch Dr. Ross make people do things that they would-nrt normally want to do• 
• 



"ICE SKATING PARTY AT THE ACC" 
April 12 8-10 pm Free pop and skates • only for ND &SMC STUDENTS. Don't have to be a cheap skate for this one. Admission • Show an ID 
.., 
r 
r 
r 
' 
... 
I 
1 
r 

THE OBSERVER 
r 
.. AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER
I 
John Abowd Dan Thornton 
Editor-in-Chief 
Business Manager

•I 
NEWS: 283-1715 EDITORIALS: 283-866~ 
7 
Don Ruane BUSINESS: 283-7471 Joe Butler
r 
r' Executive Editor Advertising Manager 
I ( Monday, February 19, 1973 
? 
Success Measure 
I 
? ? 
A first reading of the Report of the r Committee to review the Pre­
( 
Professional Programs won't tell a pre­
( ~ med major anything he doesn't already 
r know--the success measure of Notre 
? Dame's Pre-Professional Program is entirely its ability to place students in
l 
f medical schools. Any student who sur­vives the curriculum and performs well has better than a 75 percent chance of
r 
I acceptance in medical school. Not bad ( compared to the national average. I A closer look at the report, however, 
r 
reveals a genuine effort to deal with the "psychological pressures" students face in any highly competitive pre­professional program, whether that program happens to be ·medicine, law, business or academics. Although the recommendations are directed specifically at the health fields, they are generally applicable to all the areas just mentioned. 
Grade point competiton is a function of the demands of the professional schools. It is an institutional demand that graduate programs in medicine, law or any other field make of undergraduate institutions everywhere. The continued use of the GPA as the performance in­dica tor of choice is guaranteed by the undergraduate institutions which con­tinue to freely provide such information. 
There is good evidence (not a wealth of it but its out there) to suggest that several measures of undergraduate performance, especially faculty letters of recom­

r 
( mendation, are much better predictors of ( graduate and postgraduate performance { than the GPA. In fact' one study out of the I University of Chicago rated the letters ( the best predictors and the GPA the worst I among all the commonly used indicators. The point is that the establishment of a
~ 
counseling service and career guidance

( 
will give health science students access

( 
to information about alternative careers

r' 
which would not have been available

f 
r otherwise. The spin-off benefit is that 
( 
once Notre Dame realizes that the GPA is ( r not necessarily the best indicator to provide so willingly to medical schools,
r 
the counseling center might try to develop some more effecient measures

r 
based on direct contact with pre­professional students. 
Then the university could refuse to send out a transcript without an ac­companying counseling center letter. Other universities, notably Stanford and Brown, are moving in this direction. 
The Committee to Review the Pre­Professional Programs should be con­tratulated for the counseling recom­mendation and for its general approach to the analysis of the pressures facing pre-professional and regular students alike. 
John Abowd 

GSU Pitfall 
The Graduate Student Union met last Friday to begin a series of meetings that could lead to its most important achievement of this year: the creation of a formal procedural guide for discipline of graduate students. 
The importance of such a document goes without saying, as the fiasco at Lewis Hall last December can attest. It is surprising that a counterpart of the undergraduate guide has not been im­plemented long before now. 
But a pitfall lurks in the text of the prospective guide, a pitfall that may invalidate the entire work, for it would essentially leave the graduate student where he is now. And that pitfall is, rightly so, the one point argued the longest at the GSU meeting: the question of punishment for parietal violation. 
That expulsion for a parietal violation is much too harsh a punishment was supported from many sides of the GSU. And that vocal support was able to call for a rewrite of the clause. 
The rewrite committee will hopefully avoid the pitfall of its predecessor and 
change that clause  to  a  lighter punish­ 
ment.  
Joseph Abell  



Little Biq Screer1 
taylor & bur 
art f•rranti 
Tt'levision will again dare to traverse lwre-to-fore sacriligious ground when CBS presents Burton and Taylor's Who's Afraid of Vjrginia Woolf, from the 1962 Tony award winning Edward Albee play. This l!lfi6 film took home five Oscars including lwst actress (Liz Taylor> and best sup­porting actress <Sandy Dennis>. George SPgal plays Nick, Honey's <Miss Dennis) husband The plot concerns a childless and middle-aged faculty couple who invite a ~·ounger faculty couple over for drinks following a party. The catch is that John and Martha Ohe Burtons) maintain a myth of having a child and they foster hate for each other for losing it. This spills out during the conversation with Nick and Honey and culminates in Martha trying to seduce Nick and John attempting to do the same with Honey. Albee's symbolism and the acting make this movie one of Hollywood's better efforts. Of course, the CBS. censors <which were the ultimate reasons for the "Smothers Brothers Show" being cancelled but which have allowed "Maude" and "All in the Family" to get away with murder) could have a field day. Their press release says that they hardly cut the film at all. In any case, catch this film at nine on Thursday. 
Riot 

Riot with Jim Brown and Gene Hack­man airs tonight and will also demand 
cutting by the ABC censors in its violence. Of course, since this flick series replaced Monday Night Football, maybe no one will notice. This film is no different from any other prison film such as San Quentin <except that Bogart and Pat O'Brien made that one) and is nowhere near as good as the made-for-TV The Glass House by Truman Capote last season. Like Capote's film. this one is filmed in a prison and uses real prisoners (golly gee) as actors. The break out is at nine but it'sa fizzle. If the censors do have at it, it will be justifiable homicide. 
The Alamo 

On NBC at the same time tonight, John Wayne as Col. David Crockett and Richard Widmark as Jim Bowie get creamed in part two of The Alamo. Wayne produced and directed this film which may explain its over-sentimentality and \"clean" violence. On the rerun circuit, Wait Until Dark airs again Friday on CBS at nine with Audrey Hepburn playing "the world champion blind lady" (as she terms it) being stalked by Richard-Crenna, Jack Weston and ultra-evil bad-guy Alan Arkin ,·or some heroin hidden in her apartment. This great suspense film should be seen with the lights out and with a small group who will not reveal the ending or who have not seen it. It is one of the tightest and best written films I have ever seen. Don't miss it. Fool's Parade, the second rerun of the week, air·s tomorrow on 16 at eight with .Jimmy Stewart and two friends, Strother Martin and Kurt Russell, released from prison during the depression and trying to get his rightfully owned money despite the efforts of the greedy banker, a hulking murderous prison guard, and two Dick Tracy type killers. If you have not seen it, I highly recommend it. 
Ed Sullivan Special 

At nine-thirty tomorrow,Ed Sullivan will have a special which will showcase television's ~omedy shows utilizing a ton of film clips. For any who love trivia, this jtf.5t may be television's contribution for the season. It is on 22. Saturday's NBC movie has Gregory Peck as a Southern sheriff falling in love with Tuesday Weld during a murder case in I Walk the Line. Pt>ck gives his usual strong but wooden performance with Tuesday Weld proving that she can act. Curl up with a mint julep at nine. 
Made-for-TV films 

Of the three made-for-TV films, The Nor/iss Tapes starring Roy Thinnes is a possihle pilot for next year. Smacking of the ill-fated "Sixth Sense"; this film has Thinnes as a writer involved in mysteries of the supernatural and occult. It will be seen on the "Wednesday Mystery Movie"on NBC at R:30. Cloris Leachman and Martin Balsam play a middle-aged couple who are to have a real babv on .. ARC's Movie of the Week" H::Hl. ABC must have collude have scheduled this film v Woolf two days later. The fin• No OrH' Could Save Her Wedn on ABC not about a mytholo1 having a child late in life but vanished husband in Ireland 
Hemick.  Talk  about  vari  
theme.  
Oscar Picks  

Oscar Nominations:Forthos them. here they are (My choi 
of each list>: Best Pictu1 fathc>r. Cabaret, Deliver Emigrants. and Sounder; 1\larlon Brando <The Godfatf Caine and Sir Laurence Olh P('ter O'Toole <The Ruling Paul Winfield (Sounder); B Liv t lllmann (The Emig1 1\1 i nelli <Cabaret), Diana Rol Sings the Blues), Maggie Sn with My Aunt), and Cicely' dc.>,.> : Best Supporting Acto1 Hobert Duvall. James Caa1 Jatltc>rl, J<:ddie Albert <The Kid). and Joel Grey (Cat Supporting Actress--Eile~ <Butterflies are Free), Je: 
t The Heartbreak Kid), Ger t Pc>te ·N' Tillie). Susan Tyrre and Shelley Winters (The 1 l'c•nture); Best Director--F Coppola (The Godfather), J< <Deliverance), Bob Fosse <C Troell <The Emigrants), l\.1ankewicz <Sleuth l. 
Best . Foreign Language 
Discrc>et Charms of the <France), TheDawnsAre Qu I Love You Rosa (lsrae}), Senorita <Spain), The t Sweden): Best Screenplay 1\lario Puzo and Coppola <ThE .Julius Epstein <Pete 'N' Tillio <Cabaret), .Jan Troell and Be <The> Emigrants). Lonn (Sou11der); and for Bel Screenplay--Carl Forem Winston l. .Jeremy Larner didate). Louis Bunuel (T 
Charms of the Bourgeoisie),~ and de Passe (The Lady Sing and Louis Malle (Murmur of The best song and score nom be announced March 5. T Adventure took seven noml technical. one acting), Caba The> Godfather eleven. The Academy Awards Show will b March 27. 
Trivia Question: Who play, motorcycle leader to Marlo! The Wild One? 

To present the conflict of . human individuality in a so prohibits it is not an easy tasl what the ND-SMC Theatre pi John Bowen's After the Rain do. For the most part, their a exciting success, providing theatrical experience well W4 
The action takes place t' vears after the rain of 1975, in iecturt> hall in which the aud the part of the students. Frorr you walk into the theatre the I Costumed teacher's assistants vour seats and take attendm camera 1984ishly records yOl 
The lecturer, played by Mi walks onto the stage and ad audience explaining how his ture will cover the events on Ark-like raft that earried the survivors of the great 1975 f notized social criminals play the new society's founding fat Arthur Henderson, played Cera so. 
All sorts of bizarre inciden 
board the raft. with Henders< 
himself god. most of the crew 1 
blindly. and of course one 
standin 

~· 
daanesbury 
1Jie" P!le51P6NT 
= 

ONe£ .SAI/J /HIJ(f 
iaSiiiil 
ooQo 
1116" flt!J'TNfJMIVIJR.

Ill&" FOt-~OWING
r 
( 
WIIS 0/'lc CF OW< ( 
.. 15 IJ l#/t98y 
f7NcSr fi(){!PS/ PIG

CPtrOOflt-.
;!!}

( 
rHRt? rtNe9f:.. 
Cl 

I
( 
( ( rjarry trudeau ( 
r 
~ 
( 
( ( ( 

( 
i 
/ 
( ~ 
( 
the observer 

( 
issue staff

( 
( Night Editor Marlene Zloza Ass't Night Editor--Chris Sullivan Layout AI Rutherford, Kathy Celly
~ 
Day Editor Tom Bornholdt

( 
Typists -Mary Romer, Harry Chung, Steve i" Roper, Moshi Anastasoff .. Hi mom .. (3A forever) Hal operator-Mike Goetz 
i 
Pictureman -Jerome Phillips I Copy Editors Maria Gallagher. Joe Abell, ( Mike O'Hare 
Visitors Bi II, Butch (the apprentice), lots

( 
of reporters, Dan. Mike, Pete, Peggy

( 
I Night Controller.-Dave Rust
,. 

Monday, February 19, 1973 the observer 
7 




·ton 
tomorrow at ·d with CBS to .vith Virginia al film is And 1esday at 8:30 gical baby or concerning a starring Lee iations on a 
;e who missed ice is the first re--The God­ranee. The 
Best Actor-­her), Michael vier (Sleuth). Class), and ~est Actress-­rants) • Lisa ss (The Lady nith )(Travels Tyson (Soun­
the master of mime
r--Al Pacino, n (The God­~ Heartbreak l>a ret) ; Best kerry mcnamara 
en Heckart 
annie Berlin F'riday night was one of those special abounds in the poetic sensitivity which raldine Page evenings that come only rarely and pass makes the tragic and the outlandish so ~ll (Fat City), all too quickly. Marcel Marceau, master very real and dear to us. They run the full Poseidon Ad­of the art of Mime, came to O'Laughlin, gamut of emotions and sensations. "The 'rancis Ford and brought with him a wondrous universe Painter" was a perfect opening number,ohn Boorman of silence. It's very difficult--indeed, awakening our sensitivities and capturing
;abaret), Jan 
almost futile--to attempt to put such an our hearts from the start. The Trial" and and Joseph experience into words. For, as we all "ThePublic Garden" were fine evidence of learned F'riday evening, words are often Marceau's ability toportraythe comic, the Film--The insufficient and sometimes deceitful. tragic. and the unusual in all of us. "The Bourgeoisie If. however. we must attempt to relate Side Show" revealed his impeccable body tiet (USSR>, what transpired, let us use the most ap­control. "The Cage" and "The Creation of My Dearest propriate words. Marcel Marceau's per­the World" entered a new realm, and New Land formance was sublime. It was tragic, demonstated Marceau's symbolicAdaptation--t·omic. outlandish. familiar, masterful and mastery. For now he was no longer im­~ Godfather), beautiful. Though entrancingly poetic, it personating: he was creating an entire .e), Jay Allen was very simple and real. Through the series of sustained images with his supple mgt Forslund poetic mastery of Marceau, through hands body and captivating face. Finally, we 1ie Elder III which quiver with fife, through arms were treated to one of Marceau's true st Original \Vhich embraced the universe though they masterpieces "Youth, Maturity, Old Age tan (Young touched nothing, through a face which and Death". The memory of his strained, 
(The Can­mirrored every one of us, a world of wrinkled face. slowly being drained of all 'he Discreet fascination and beauty unfolded before our life . is unforgettable.McCloy, Clark. <'yes. What made it so beautiful was its ~s the Blues), closeness to us all. For Marceau's r the Heart>. mastery lies not so much in his ablity to Bip 1inations will create new worlds as in his power to ex­
'he Poseidon plore our hearts and minds, and to bring Left with this lifeless figure at the in­much in the imagination of his creator asinations (six onto the stage the tragedies, comedies, termission. we returned to discover a in the minds and hearts of all of us. 1ret ten, and fears. hopes and dreams which lie deep totally new Marceau, in the name of Bip, Marceau's masteryofstyle, his total body 45th Annual within each of us. the clownish figure styled·after Chaplin's control and his virtuosity with symbols
>e presented 
As is traditional the performance was Little Tramp. Bip was a delight. Perhaps W('l'e as overwhelming here as in the first divided into two parts, the first consisting the best description of him is Marceau's part. As the final curtain came down, my'ed the rival 
of selections from Marceau's repertoire of own: only regret was that it had ended so soon. 
•n Brando in "style pantomimes". These are, in many "Born in the imagination of my childhood, We learned a lesson Friday night, but ways. the most revealing, most symbolic, surrounded by characters who are neither it's not one that can easily be put into and most poignantly dramatic of Mar­worse nor better than he, Bip is a romantic words. In fact, that's the very essence · of ceau's pantomimes. Though they vary and burlesque hero of our time." the message--that words are insufficient. 
..L Ol JaMsuv greatly in style and content, every one The origin of his adventures lies not so Marcel Marceau taught us the language of 


after the rain has something to say 
maintaining .ciety which k but that is roduction of attempts to 1ttempt is an : a unique orth seeing. wo hundred a university  dignity. As trite as this may seen, the play moves along quitewell. Parallelism Some times, however, the action does tend to get a little too schmultzy. At one point. for instance, Henderson, as god, stands in front of a large cross with the women weeping at his feet as he is about to  ceptional vitality and ability. In the second act, though, some problems do develop. The part intensifies a great deal anc Deziel tends to overplay It, losing his otherwise excellent stage presence. Some of his motions, such as moving his feet like a jack-hammer, become a little distracting. Overall he comes across as a very talented individual and hopefully we will be seeing a lot more of him.  One sore thumb in the cast is Debby Tirsway. as Muriel Otterdale. Usually delightful. she clomps through this play constantly disfiguring her face and un­necessarily distorting her voice. At one point. she is supposed to be reverting back ho some childhood ways. Unfortunately, when she gets to wherever it was she was reverting to, it seems she has gone back to the womb or beyond. A bit much.  
lienee takes  calm the raging seas with a verbal com­ Miss Riordan and Miss Hardigan both fit  
n the minute  mand. The parallelism slaps the audience  their roles exceptionally well and provide  
play begins.  in the face.  almost  flawless  interpretations.  Set Quite Good  
; walk you to  Another problem with the script is that  Miss Hardigan's sensitivity as Armitage's  
nee  while  a  there is too  much in it.  Not unlike the  girlfriend adds  a  great deal  to  the play  
llr presence.  movie Billy Jack, the play is based on a  and is often very moving.  Miss Riordan,  ·  The set is really quite good though for a  
ark Swiney,  very  good  idea  but  at  times  becomes  as the has-been actress, moves very freely  play of this nature it may be a little too  
ldresses the  bogged down in  its social comment and  through her role and is really very funny.  rxtravagant.  Nonetheless, Faith Adams  
history lec­t the Noah's  lacks artistic subtlety. Yet in spite of that the play is very enjoyable.  Cliff Fetters. though in a minor role, does his usual goodsjob and seems to have  is to be commended. Unfortunately, she was not as successful with her costumes.  
only human flood. Hyp- Perhaps the highlight of the per­formance is Dan Deziel's portrayal of Alan  added to his &ophistication. Mark Swiney and Chris Ceraso provide two of  Tl'nnis shoes. sweat pants and sloppily !'ewn. extravagant shirts just don't fit in  
the roles of  Armitage. the man who holds out for in­ the stronger roles in  the play.  Ceraso's  with the  setting of  a  two  hundred year  
thers, led bv l by Chri.s  dividuality. In his first major role, he definitely stands out against a power\ful  awareness to a very difficult role is shown time and again in his ability to get out of  old society. One costume has so many animal skins hanging from it.  
1ts occur on on declaring obeying him noble soul  background of such veterans as Carol Hiordan. Grace Hardigan. Chris Ceraso, 'llld Mark Swiney. His performance is sharp and clear and is, unlike many of the others on the cast, very unaffected. In the  Pasily overdone lines. Not to be ignored is Aubrey Payne. as the minister Harold Banner. His role could also be easily overdone. but Payne is very funny where he has to be while still retaining his  th(' .character looks like some sort of misguided fur ;trapper. In spite of its small problems, the play, directed by Frederic Syburg, is a good one. The cast is loaded with talen­ 
what  

\ 

the heart. a language which is fast bcoming extinct in a society where words have lost their meaning and people are losing touch with one another. Marceau "shuns the deceitful words that raise barriers of his understanding between men", and thus reveals to us "the human being in its most secret yearnings". He reintroduces us to ourselves 
(All quotes by Marcel Marceau, Copyright 1973 by Donetz and Lovett, New York) 
jim gresser 

and'·for the largest part do it very ·well. The biggest problem lies in an unpolished script but \even that is .not enough to keep someone from seeing it. The play is warm, funny and, unquestionably, it has something to say. 
·-----------------------------------------------------------------­
l I 
I l 8 the observer Monday, February 19, 1973 
I l An election viewpoint 
Student Government: its functions and future 
by John Barhett Student Body President 1971-72 

Student leadership at any school should serve at least three functions. First. it must provide representation. It must represent student interests which means it must communicate with the student body to keep a pulse on student concerns. The Academic Council's discussion of the Academic Calendar indicates the need for communication on issues. Student representation on the Student Life Council also calls for contact with one's constituency. 
Might I add that confronting students is necessary if student leadership is to maintain a fair, honest, and intelligent stance in representation. Standing between administrations and students is like walking a tightrope if one is objective and courageous. The more one possesses of these characteristics, the more the tightrope quivers. The less tense or threatening is the issue. or the fewer students involved, however, the 
lightrope if one is objective and courageous. The more one possesses of these characteristics, the more the tightrope quivers. The less tense or threatening is the issue. or the fewer students involved, however, the lower to the ground is the tightrope and lhe less it quivers. I can cite the example of Mr. Stephan's letter to the student body in August. One had to agree with the concern he showed for greater control in the residence halls because of the rowdiness and, at times, uncilized behavior of students in the halls last spring. 
But students wanted less control. As Student Body President. I tip-toed very carefully across the rope on this issue because I saw both sides all too clearly. The students were not as blameless as they made them­selves out to be and the Trustees reacted to as many rumors as factS. The refrigerator fine policy affect one fifth of the student body and was not a very tense issue by comparison, so it was much "safer" to walk across the rope in this case. 
A second function--closely related to the first--is "watchdogging.' Student government this year was a watchdog in many ways. The refrigerator fine proposal was one example. Not all the credit can go to student government, nor were the administrators involved unreceptive to suggestion, but an increase in fines could have gone unnoticed until after the fact-if student leadership wasn't active. Last April, the Of­ficers Council approved the creation of a committee to study security on the campus. Only with student in­volvement was the committee finally appointed--in October. 5 months after it was approved. 
The last function is service. This is a broad category 
for it can mean providing information <through an 
Ombudsman or Research and Development Com­
missioner. for example>, a Student Union 
(Academic. Cultural Arts, Social, Services Com­
missions), or organizing and executing volunteer 
service projects <this year's Charity Basketball Game, 
for example). . 

There are some that would give student leadership a 
fourth function: that of confronting the administration 
in the student power tradition-"burn, baby, burn" if 
one is refused. However, I feel confrontation is a tool 
that must be used carefully and prudently. One does 
not speak out "against" someone because of tradition. 
And one must weigh the pros and cons of any action 
with the whole University and future programs in 
mind. Might I add, too, that student power is an 
anomaly if the burning issue is not existent. Creating 
issues for the sake of confrontation is time con­
suming and fruitless. 

Though I consider confrontation more a method than 
a function of student government, I want to make it 
dear I do not ban its use. I simply suggest it was more 
necessary in a past era of student government. If good 
judgment demands it, however, it can be useful. 
What I have just said represents the character we 
gave student government in 1971-72. Furthermore, it is 
the character I think it should possess in the years to 
come. barring an immediate advent of a Utopian 
l'niversity; a utopia, that is, called so by all con­
stituencies in the University! 
representative at every Hall Presidents' Counil meeting. We printed interhall newsletters. News items were carried in The Observer and on WSND. I wrote an article for The Scholastic. But still the results are poor if one is to ask a student, "What has student government done this year?" 
Why is this true? For one thing, much of what student government does is not credited to student government by the everyday student, or even by anyone else, for that matter. A small example is the repair of the basketball court:, behind the Bookstore last spring which we arranged. The $10,000.00 we appropriated to aid 17 halls in renovations, the South Bend in a Nutshell magazine which we distributed, the 
1.000 phone calls our Ombudsman bandied. 
In addition, we purposely had a policy 'of living publicity to the memben of our Cabinet 'or other student government volunteers. We felt such recognition would help us recruit help aDd reward those already working for their efforts. How irOnic It was that I was criticized at the end of my term tor not being visible enough to the student body! 
Furthermore, much of what we do in student government demands so much time that the im-


John Barkett at the SLC 
mediate effects of a project may be felt three, six, nine or more months after work is begun on the project. Student government desrves much of the credit for co­educating Notre Dame, but how many students will tell you that? We asked for 5 months on reports on renovations in the halls and the LaFortune Student Center. Assuming something will be done over the summer or even next summer because of these reports. how many students will attribute the changes 

"We learned that students can be as petty and deceitful as our Washington counterparts sometimes are made out to be." 
What did we learn with this philosophy? We discovered that you really can't please everybody all of the time or even sometimes, but that fact does not detract from what I consider a satisfying and suc­cessful year in office. 
We learned that students can be as petty and deceitful as our Washington counterparts are sometimes made out to be. A ·microcosm of the macrocosm, so to speak. 
We learned that the crowd is untruth, at times, especially when it is drunk. 
We learned that a large ego and a thirst for power-­authority--are dangerous combinations. Jealousy and envy are similarly existent. The human condition? Project these traits of one's make-up onto a national governmental figure. Appalling, isn't it? 
We learned that public relations is crucial to a successful operation. No matter how evident success is to one who is on the scene, the "normal" student has to know of one's achievements before one can claim victory. 
I wonder, however, how successful any public relations effort can be. We returned to the 20 residence halls to speak. I wrote five articles for The Observer. 
to student government? 
The "impacting" results of student government 
work require research, planning, time, and money. Universities move slowly. Money is hard to find. Everyone has a different set of priorities. A one-fourth turnover in the student body occurs every year. Most students are impatient and want visible change immediately. With this complex situation, one can understand the public relations hurdle student 
government faces. 
If one can survive the election time criticism which is levelled every year no matter how brilliantly a President and Vice President performed.{ one should learn this too: students are at a University to get an education. Student government represents, wat­chdogs, serves, andat times, confronts but is taken for graanted. If it didn.t exist: students would create it. But while 1t exists and functions, it is ignored, unless needed for an extraordinary reason. Students are selfish. love servants, and can be seemingly cruel vis­a-vis the thousands of man-hours put into student government work. 
Some say student government is a victim of its own success. But student government history is not a 
We had a 

"For one thing, much of what Student Government does is not 
credited to student government by the every day student, or anyone 
else, for that matter." 

l'Ourse at Notre Dame. so its heritage cannot be ap­preciated except by those who have watched it year after year. and there are not many students in that group. What has to be done to improve University life is relatively uncontroversial at this point in student government history. What is needed now is intelligent leadership with more imaginative energies than ever before to build upon the success of the past. 
I will translate that into practical action by describing a blueprint for student government (and llniversityl concerns for the future. 
1.) Student self-responsibility is a goal sought by all. We are a community of scholars but we are not a scholarly community. We are a diversified student hody--that is healthy. But we are also an immature 
one. Studentself-governmentis possible if and only if there is a marked increase in sensitivity to others, respect for the rights and dignity of others, and self­sacrifice for the community's well being. Call it "growing-up" responsibly and color it difficult. The scope of this task goes beyond student leadership but cannot exclude it. 
2.) A new Vice President for Student Affairs will be appointed. The opportunities such an appointment implies are countless because that office affects nearly Pvery non-academic facility in direct contact with students. Student leadership would do well to examine the office to see how it can be made more responsible to positive student needs and wants. 
3.) Notre Dame went eoeducational in September or 1972. Others have described the complexity and magnitude of the change. Suffice it to say here that student leadership can play a major role in making the transtition smooth and should take advantage of the mood of susceptibility to change that exists at present. 
-t.) We have barely dented the surface in the area of hall life. Physical improvements are necessary. Stay hall may be jeopardized with coeducation. "Living­learning" concepts are embryos here. Hall staffs lack a desireable level of competency. No philosophy of hall life exists at Notre Dame. as far as I know. Incoming freshmen pick their hall with little basis for the choice. Hall leaders receive little attention and less ('ncouragement. Research in this area is sorely lacking. Need I say more? 
s.) The academic advising system at Notre Dame is poor. What can be done to improve it? 
6.) The survey of student life commissioned by the Board or Trustees could be a valuable research and development tool for student government. Aiding in its development and its continuation seems crucial to me. 
i.) The report of the Security Advisory and Traffic Safety Committee should be available publicly soon. Is it adequate? What can student government do to improve security? 
H.) Physical renovation of the Student Center is a must. However. until that is a reality, how else can LaFortune be made more functional? 
H.) How do we implement a viable system of an­swering academic grievances at Notre Dame? 
10.) Is the honor c;oncept dead at Notre Dame? It seems to me student government can examine this concept (through the existing committee appointed by the Provost) with all its implications, the need for grades and the competitive spirit of Notre Dame, not the least among them. 11.) Is off-campus life a paradise for everyone? I don't think so and I think much has to be done. 
12.) Are we doing all we can in the drug information area? How do we combat drug abuse positively? 
13.) The candor of our sexual--"hetero" and "homo-" -revolution seems to me to demand a response from the leading Catholic univeristy in the world. Student input seems just as essential. 
14.) Is tenure a dead issue? 15.) Do students desire a representative on the University Board of Trustees? 
16. l On a more practical level, can a summer em­ployment service be established for students by students in conjuction with the Placement Bureau and Alumni Association? 
17.) Co-educational dormitories may be a thing of the future at Notre Dame but only if research on them and planning for them begins soon. 
18. 
l Can the Student Government Scholarship presently handled by the Financial Aid Office be augmented? Have students input in the selection proccess? 

19. 
l Co-operatives are the rage of the college world. What.can be done at Notre Dame? 

20. 
l Research and development is a key to a suc­cessful student government. It is unglamorous, time consuming, and essential. 


I have not exhausted all the areas by any means. Nor have I bothered to list the everyday work of student government which cannot be neglected; the functions I described above suggested a few ofthese daily concerns. From experience, I assure you there are many more! 
In a time of the Prime Mover and the George Wallaces, government seems to be at its nadir in popularity. The efforts of those who choose to enter government must be all the more vigorous and selfless to survive· this trend and to find answers to the many problems and questions which prevail on our campus and the world around us. 
Monday, February 19, 1973 the observer 
'Pro-life11co~niDittee outlines goals 
by Bob Qu~kenbush ~taff Reporter 
Tlw Student Coalition for the llunwn Life Amendment outlined its goals and campaign procedure Friday afternoon in LaFortune. Tlw we£'kcold "pro-life" group agn•ed upon the ends it hopes to achieve and the means to be used lo achieve them. 
Goals 
1\lark Souder. a student in the graduate school of business and chairman of the coalition's stl'<'ring committee. presented for ;1 pproval the short. long and other­rangt.' goals which the stteering commitiN' had recommended t'arlit>l' in the week. 
"Our long-range goal." said SouctPr. "is to have the Human Life .\mt>ndnwnt <sponsored by l'ongr<'ssman Lawrence J. Hogan 1H.-I\ld.l become a part of the l'nitC'd States Consitution." 

In the interim. Souder said the eoalition should work to convince thost' persons who are considet:ing · h;\\·ing an abortion performed to conw loa personal decision not to have it done. 
:\nothPr short-range goal which is m•cessary for long range suc­n•ss. Souder added. is to "in­fluencP all people who can faeili1<1te the passage of the . \nH•ndml•nt." 
Fi\'<' bases 
Tlw coalition will have five bases of operation within the state of Indiana. These are Notre Dame. Indiana llniversity. Purude l'niversity. Fort Wayne. and In­dianapolis. 
Each base is attempting to arrange a press conference for l\londay. February 26, to launch the coalition's public efforts. 







FREE 
Souder said it is hoped that two or thrl'P Notre Dame students will participate in {'ach conference. 
Campus organization 
The group is immediately concPrnl'd with building a strong campus o'rganization. Stressing that the group is a volunteer organization. Souder expressed his lwlit.•f that the more people get im·olv£>d. the less the burden will lw on <1 few . 
"llltimately. we hope to have an off-campus chairman. a campus chairman. under him two quad t'hairnwn. and under these in­di\'idual hall chairmen. Then, if possible. within the halls them­sPin's \\'<' can have chairmen for ('ach floor." 
Such an organizational struc­lll!'('. said Souder. will enable the eoalition to reach every student at :\otre Dame. 
··tntimately, we want to compile Paucate 1ts members, develop as a list of everybody in the univer­organizational and staff stn cture, sit\·. their hometown and their and secure needed finances and an position in regards to the Human office on campus. Life Amendment." This. he The 25 people present at the speculated. should be ac-meeting approved every apsect of complished by summer. the steering committee's proposals 
l\Ieanwhile, the coalition plans to l.manimously. 

Ministry of Propaganda starts Resignation Contest 
BPcause of the close proximity of :Wth. tlw student body elections the The letters ~hould be the typical l\linistry of Propaganda in con­·Jetter of resignation' and can 
junction with the Art Curator, contain any of the following names at1nounces the 1st annual as resignees; King Kersten, H-1\Psignation Contest. 1\Ian. Mike Hess, Greg Smith, Jim 
The contest is open to all Hoe. Mike Marget, Walker students. faculty, and their family. Holloway III, Mark Proesel, and Letters. of not more than 100 
Bioi McLean. Letters will be words. are to be submitted to the judged on originality, good taste, eanqms Art Curator. Mark reasons for resigning, and choice Proesel. none later than Feb. 23. of candidate. Prizes will be an­H£'sults will be announced on the llounced at a later date. 



ifyou show your TWA Youth Passport and present your airport before you depart. Then you too can cash in on the boarding pass to any TWA ticket office within 24 hours of coupon book.) your arrival, you'll get a nice, fat coupon book full ofdiscounts, So, ifyou're offacross the country this spring recess, take two-for-ones, and free things. (If, by the way, you don't own a look at what you'll get ifyou fly TWA. a TWA Youth Passport, we'll be happy to accept your other Youth Passport is a service mark owned exclusively by TWA. 
FREE IN SAN FRANCISCO 
Buy one ~~Son-of-a-bitch" stew, get one free at Mother Lode. Buy four hours, get 20 free hours ofmotorbike rental at the Cycle Pit. Buy one dinner, get one free at Crouchons homemade-cooking restaurant. 
FREE IN LOS ANGELES 
Free boat ride around Marina del Rey. Free hour ofsurfboard rental in Santa Monica. Buy one meal, get one free at the Bratskellar restaurant. Free hour ofbike rental in Marina del Rey. 

FREE IN DENVER 

Free tour ofDenver by Gray Line. Free ski guide tour from Vail Ski School. Free beer at Thlagi's in Boulder. Fourth day oflift tickets free at Aspen. Buy one admission, get one free to Wheeler Opera House­Free hour ofhorseback riding at Mahaney's Stables. Aspen's twin movie house. Free admission (and discounts on drinks) Fourth day oflift tickets free at Vail. at Denver Folklore Center. 

FREE IN BOSTON 

Buy one admission to The Jazz Workshop, get one free. Free quiche lorraine and cup ofcoffee at La Crepe. Free spaghetti dinner at the Spaghetti Emporium, Inc. Free Indian soup and vegetable curry at Free breakfast in the Pewter Pot Muffin House. the India Sweet House restaurant in Cambridge. Free admission to the Prudential Center Skywalk. Free pair ofearrings or pendant (and watch it being made) Free combination health food platter at Whaler's Wharf. from Corners of the Mouth restaurant. Free admission or beverage and dessert at Passim Coffeehouse. 

FREE IN WASHINGTON* 
Buy one admission to Biograph Cinema, get one free. Free pizza at Anna Maria restaurant. Free sandwich at Piccadilly restaurant. Buy one sandwich, get one free at Blimpie Sandwich Shop. Free package of incense at Earth Works Boutique. Buy one meal, get one free at Mykonos Greek restaurant. 

FREE IN PHILADELPHIA* 
Free tacos for two at Tippy's Taco House. Free membership for two at Walnut Street Theatre. Free roast beefsandwich at Dr. Watson's Pub. Buy one ticket for Blazers Hockey game, get one free. Free cheese & tomato pizza for two. Three hours ofbike rental free at Simba Bike Shop. Free quiche lorraine and coffee at La Crepe. Free package ofcone incense from Cohn Candle Co. Buy one steer sandwich, Free admission to flea market. get one free at Pat's King ofSteak. Buy one admission to Perelman Antique Car Museum, Buy one sundae, get one free at Just Ice Cream. get one free. 
For more information see your Campus Rep or call TWA. *Starting March 15. 


BE YOUNG. 
~ 
\ 
Monday, February 19, 1973
10 
the observer 
\. 
Letters• •• ...on Capt. Denton, Fr. Toohey and others 
"ideological totalitarianism:• in connection with amnesty -is to to let you in on the joke, that's easy tug-of-war. society. and "suppression of confuse the entire issue and to <'nough take a look at our extensive
Thanks 
thought" on campus. In response, depict the President not only as an 0-C list. It's a nice looking list, Thank you'\ may I respectfully suggest: unforgiving person, but also as one nice pink paper. not too many l name withheld on request)
l<~ditor: 
1. If the institutions of society do seeking to wreak some kind of houses on it, but nice paper though. 
\ 
\ not respond to a Christian un­vengence upon the draft dodgers. · Actually it has a good twenty-five,. 
I have noted the recent at­
derstanding of the social order, it Happily, Father Toohey's opinion thirty houses on it, at a high
\ tentions given to crime on the 
is the duty of a Christian to bear does not represent the average of four men per house Capt. Denton
\ 
campus. On February 7th my high 
witness against them. The fact, if it Congregation of Holy Cross, of which takes care of anywhere from 
school age son returned from the
l 
be a fact. that they are fully con­which he is a memher. 100-1201 of us. I think there are more
ACC to .te1J me his wallet had 
' formed to the internal logic of the people interested or pushed toward Editor:
disappeared. I called the Campus 
society in which they operate Christopher J. O'Toole, C.S.C., off campus than that. Hold on, the
Gards office and reported the loss. 
makes this duty, if anything, more Ph.D. list gets funnier yet. You have to
\ The ilext day the Guard Office In his letter-to-the­
urgent than ever. Provincial put out a little effort for this part
\ ealled and said they had located I<:di tor yesterday Rick Maggi 
~ 2. It is also the duty of a Christian though. call the numbers on the list 
the wallet. It was intact and every made. what we believe, is the best 
\ to bear witness against opinions -almost every one of these houses
dollar and every paper accounted suggestion for our choice of Senior 
which he finds irreconcilable with is nlready rented. They weren't
r for. Fellow so far this year. We do not 
truths revealed by God. This Senior Fellow rented yesterday, they went a good
I don't know who recovered it but seek to detract from the eminant
~ witness can take the form of two weeks ago~ poor Observer 
-, I want to express our sincere qualifications of "Mr. Dirt", who 
dialogue, but it doesn't have to. In nothing to print but old news.
\ thanks to all involved in the we must agree is no worse (nor 
any event. to bear witness, even Editor: Rut then. I do have some 
l 
recovery. It certainly gives proof better) than William Kuntsler or 
vehement witness, against suggestions. First of all, the list
positive that there are many more Fr. Berrigan. However we do feel 
honest and trustworthy people someone's opinion is neither to It has recently come to my at­could possibly become a little that with the choice of Captain suppress the opinion nor to show that another longer <if not extensive), if people 
' ~ ~ 
than there are law breakers at tention controversy Denton Notre Dame has a rare 
NO. disrespect for the person who holds has come to rock the floating didn't have to pay five dollars to opportunity to restore meaning to 
it. put their name on it. I know we
foundation of the class of '73. It the Senior Fellow award. We 
l ~ ~ . :t A Catholic university ought to S('ems. at the latest report that a have to pay secretaries but I think cannot help but remember that
H.R.Grodhem 
have as its primary in~ellectual one Mr. Dirt is being catapulted our fifty dollar deposit <which is while we "Dirthalls" have been enterprise the explor~tion of the to fame as an up and coming due this week by the way> could "drinking beer'' and "leading cover some of the cost. Second,
implications of Christianity­m('ssiah worthy of the coveted panty raids" since the beginning
which, God knows, we need to with a little bit of effort, a com­
Senior Fellow award. It must be of our high school careers, Cap­
SMC & understand a lot better than we do. admitted that initially this writer puter list could be made of all t a in Denton has been If it supports a dialogue with present 0-C students with ap­
was appalled. Having suffered showing courage and fortitude inThe Observer people who make no claim to through ten days of dodging propriate telephone numbrs a way which none of us has ever 
reconcile their views with tsomething our telephone book
burning bushes and oligarchical had to and all of us must admire. 
I \ Christianity. it should not do so to sackings of lavatories, he seriously seems to lack). And maybe, if Fr. Editor: the point of disrupting that considered handing in his Senior Hiehle is in a generous ood, the five Ed Lacey '73primary enterprise. To my mind, dollar entrance fees which have
Bar card, the last vestment of Tom Schlageter '73We are appalled at the lack of this disruption is a far more reality left to him. However, in a already been paid, could go Tom LaBuz '73
interest of the St. Mary's student serious "threat to Notre Dame's moment of extreme despair and toward an advertisement in the John Conlonn '73body towards the Observer. We status as a Catholic university" indecision, he was stuck trying to Tribune to attract potential lan­
\ feel that this present gap is than any "spppression of thought" decide between the Huddle's super d)ords to our ever growing list. widening between ND and SMC. that I have observed or seen hamburger replete with special Please do something, I'm tired of laughing.
These people do no_t realize the proposed around here. sauce and Kaiser roll or his usual Plaudits 
need for a continuance of com­Planter's peanut jumbo bar, he L. Quinn
munications between the two Sincerely, saw dirt everywhere-on the floor, 
schools. How else can we find out in his coffee cup, screaming from 
Editor: what is happening in the world Hobert E. Rodes, Jr. his newspaper and most finally,outside our own little worlds? How incorporated in individuals. He
Professor of Law I recently returned from the
else can we find out about the turned to his tomis seeking a "Dirt"y Referee Notre Dame campus, where I events and the views within the slight thread of hope, and 
spent four days attending aND-SMC community itself? It is discovered that it lied there, albeit seminar at the Center for Con­
easy to criticize the work of others, Fr. Toohey stagnant and gilded. Finally, he tinuing Education. I write to let or to take advantage of their hard 
turned to his God wht only replied Editor: you know that I was trdy im­
work without thinking about giving with an Ash Wednesday liturgy. 
The movement to nominate "Mr. pressed with the genuine Christian a little of ourselves. Certainly two 

Editor: Dirt has finally overcome me Dirt" as the 1973 recipient of the spirit and attitude of the students
dollars wouldn't break anyone. and I offer my signature to the Senior Fellow Award only con­of Notre Dame. 
How often have we wasted two epitaph for the buried generation. 
With an amazing lack of logic, firms my belief that the Notre A priest companion and I sought dollars on something less wor­Father Toohey. in a publicized We offer no leadership, we prefer Dame community is made up of former students of ours several
thwhile? Perhaps we have lost our 
letter sent to President Nixon, kings-we offer non philosophy, our the most immature and self cen­times during these four days, andchance now but let's hope that by takes up arms in favor of amnesty smudges hide our writings. We tered group of students in the were continuously approached by
next semester the SMC community deliver upon bare sym­
for those who have chosen to dodge you our country. It is tragic to see such a helpful students, directing us and
will be less apathetic. 
any part in the Vietnam war. Has bols-broken bar stools, un­worthwhile observance as Senior successfully tracking down the Father Toohey forgotten that there broken books, and romantically Fellow be debased. I still objects of our search. We wit­
Rosemary Barnes is ample provision in present scarred souls. While fuding our id remember listening to Allard nessed this warm welcome in atLynn DiGiulio 
governmental and military and avoiding reality, we turn to Lowenstein, the 1970 winner, as he least five of your Halls.
Mary Sue Gezich regulations for conscientious Mr. Dirt to popularize our expressed his pride in having Keep up this beautiful spirit ofBeth Combs 
objectors'? They need not have fled causesand once again allow us to received such an honor. I wonder community concern for others. My 
return to Lotus.

to Canada or Sweden but easily how he'll feel this year when he image of your college was elevated could have taken advantage of finds out what little regard the from a one to a five, on a scale of what protection is offered them in Robert E. Fulton students <or at least the seniors) five.
Kerby's Letters the United States. have for the award. A friend of mine argued that this Father Toohey. referring to Q ( H . l year there is no one worthwhile to Sincerely yours, I<:ditor: President Nixon, remarks: "It is -OUSInQ iSt give the award to anyway, so why <Rev.) Ralph J. Huntzinger 
I have been impressed, although no exaggeration te say that ::J,PVf' not make a joke of it? I disagree not persuaded, by a couple of recent comments have _.J;tt911ified with such a statement, not only letters you have published (January millions of Americans.rr How has . EditQr: because I feel there are many 
Real Homemade

:nand February 9) from Robert L. the count been·· made, or has a "Extensive O.C. List availabl~" worthy recipients, but because 
Kerby. and I would like a chance to private poll been taken, or has the . Isn't it ironic how the headlmet that line of reasoning shows little 
Italian Food !

\ take issue with him. His positi<Jn, figure "millions" simply been become funnier day by day. Oh, I regard for underclassmen, who in 
I 
<' I as I understand it, is that drawn out of a hat. know the campus housing problem the years to come may wish to Christians. in today's society, is serious. don't get me wrong, I nominate a serious candidate. For 
Louie's 

.. should be advancing the Gospel by . There is no indication that live in Breen-Phillips, I know with it will be difficult to get anyone to 
<''· personal witness, without any President Nixon does not respect the best of them. Fr. Riehle is accept the "honor" after "Mr. expectation of institutional sup­conscience. He is simply saying concerned too, I mean he knows Dirt" has done so. port. Hence, in his view, we should that the young men who were how it is. he's ready to help you I'm not against having fun, and 
Specials

l 
recognize in society that "the conscientious objectors, have out. vou bet. it's nice to know you thus I suggest that the "dirtballs" 
agencies of civil government are failed to observe the law governing are getting a helping hand -real invite their hero to campus during 
Mon. Feb. 19th not instruments for the en­them. It is up to the President to nice. no kidding. But I guess I've the An Tostal weekend. After all, 
thru 

forcement of Christian moral and take what action he sees fit, ac­kidded too long now, it's only fair ._1-t_e'd make a great referee for the 
Thurs., Feb. 22nd

ethical concepts." And here on cording to Iaw-not for sen­campus. we should respond with timental reasons. Anyone­dialogue, not polemic, to ex­layman, priest, or Bishop-who pressions of opinion that run objects to this usual procedure, counter to our Christian moral or fails to realize the function of law ( ( religious commitments. To do and discipline in any civilized 
l 
otherwise is to run the danger of nation. To quote the Gospel 
THE NOTRE DAME-ST. MARY*S THEATRE 
AFTER THE RAIN 
JOf1N BOWEN'S absorbing theatrical morality 
p'1y surrounding events 200 years ~nee--after
l 
the rain. 
February 16, 17* 22, 23, 24 at 8:30 pm Washington Hall Notre Dame campus Students~ Faculty, Staff Sl.SO 
Reservations: 284-4176 (Business Hours) 283-7054 (Show Nights) 
in 
SAVE up to SO per cent on FLYING LESSONS 
SAVE up to 100 per cent on GROUND-SCHOOL 
SAVE upto40percenton FLYING TIME 
Movies every meeting, Field trips, Refresh­ments, Speakers and Gala Social Events!!! 
Meeting FEB. 19 Rm. 12 
Aero Space Bldg. 7:30p.m. 


This Meetin : Guest FAA S eaker 
6-12 p.m. 
1. 
Jumbo plate of spaghetti only $1.00. 

2. 
50 cents off on aII pizzas. 

3. 
Quarts of beer only 85 cents. 


Only with this coupon. Remember••• Louie's 


Monday, February 19, 1973 the observer 1 1 
Wo.men's Caucus news 

Service questionna-ire planned 
health care services that would They will discuss such topics as satisfy the Caucus' specific women in the deaconate and inquiries. ministry. Rev. Way is a minister McCabe had been· contacted at of the I United Church of Christ, the advice of Faccenda to see if a and Sr. Tuite is a Dominican nun. series of questions could be The Caucus scheduled no further fashioned to add on to the regular business meetings, since, ex­university life questionnaire. He plained Broe, most of the recently informed the Caucus organizational business of group of Daniels and Dunn that the the Caucus. including the passage 
number of questions would have to of a Caucus Constitution, had been be restricted to five. concluded. 
The Caucus announced theirThe Caucus responded by ap­thanks to those who signed theproving last night the draft of its petition supporting passage of theown questionnaire over and above 

the five questions allowed by Equal Rights Amendement ot the 
V .S. Constitution sent to the In­

McCabe. explaining, in the words of member Mary Lynn Broe, that diana legislature. It was an­
nounced that the House had"Our questionnaire is too com­passed the amendment and thatprehensive to be whittled down to "little trouble" was foreseen for its five questions." 

Senate passage.

Members of the Caucus also agreed to inititate an effort meet Tomorrow evening's discussion with both men and women students group in 'LaFortune will use in a II the residence halls to discuss Germaine Greer's The Female Caucus goals and philosophy. Eunuch as a "springboard for good 
To this end the Caucus made solid disucssion concerning" sex plans to contact the Hall roles and pressures, as opposed to Presidents Council to discuss this rigorous intellectual evaluation proposal with them at their and analysis of the book, ac­Tuesday 6 p.m. meeting in the cording to Broe. 'Jasement of Breen-Phillips. 
The new Women's Center, located in the old Draft Counseling Delong·explainsC(.•nter on the library's first floor, was discussed by Caucus members who emphasized their hopes that it Free University would be patronized by all campus women. It contained literature (continued from page 4) and various other information on 
Rick Libewitz, its founder,the problems of women in society defined Free University's purposeand the women's movement, and is by stating, "It exists to create an open when staffed. 

atmosphere or learning without"We want the women to come in eredits, in which people learn toand read, and rap with whoever is accept responsibility for gainingthere," said McGrattan. 

knowledge relevant to their per­

Caucus members were par­sonal roles in contemporary
ticularly excite~ about the up­society."
eoming discussion -and-lecture 
Mike Shaughnessy headed thewhich will be presented March 4 by program the following year, and nothe two women theologians from changes in either the strucutre ofChicago. More publicity on this nature of Free University occured. 

event will be forthcoming, Within this time, Pino noted,promised the Caucus. 
student interest in the courses"These are theologians, women 

offered declined, and as the

in the church, women in Christian program, offered a lecture seriesinstitutions," said McGrattan. 
as an alternative. Pino remained"However, they have also been very chairman of the program until this active politically. I think that they semester, when Jim Delong took ran give a very interesting and over. attempting to renew in­provocative talk." 

teresting nonacademic courses. 

CLASSIFIED FIDS 
NOTICES Lost ·-Orange Bowl Watch outside O'ShCfg. Call George 8251.

HOT LINE CRISIS PHONE· .. Have a problem you'd like to PERSONALdiscuss anonymously (drugs, bad lrip, family relations, suicide, Denny Smith---Please come home.
contraception, pregnancy, 
The family.

abortion, etc.)? Call this number: 282-2323. 
Some Huns may come, and some 
Huns may go. But my Huns can 

. A BETTER CHOICE IS LIFE FOR DRINK. By God I should know.
THE UNBORN CHILD·­And by the way, is pimp Atill aCONTACT BIRTHRIGHT, INC. IN 
week over'?

SOUTH BEND, P.O. BOX 824 OR CALL 289-1034. 
FOR SALE 

Before you buy a diamond learn all 
Koss PR0·4A Stereo headphones.

t11e facts. It may save you a great 
Excellent condition. Call Johndeal. Call: James, 3118. 

8623. 

FOR IN FORMATION ABOUT Fo,.. Sale·--Polaroid SuperGAY AWARENESS COM· 
.Colorpack Camera with case. Less

MUNITY, CALL 7789 W·TH·F, 8-10 than one-year. old-·excellent
PM. 
condition. $30. 130 Stan. (8622) 

TYPING -THESIS, DISSER­
WANTED

TATIONS, TERM PAPERS. REASONABLE RATES .. 
Need Ride: To L.A Spring Break.

PROFESSIONAL L,OOKING 
Will share expenses. Call Bill. 6832. ' RESULTS. MRS. JORDAN-·284· 2956 BEFORE 4:30 OR 288·1277 

GRADUATE'S WIFE BABYSITS.

AFTER 5:00. 
LIVES NEAR CAMPUS. CALL 
287 1272.

PRE LAW SOCIETY: Informal raps with 15 former domers now at 
Need Ride to Lauderdale,the Michigan, Chicago, Nor­

Hollywood or Miami.!!! Ken, 3679.

thwestern. and Notre Dame law schools. 2 4. p.m. Sat., Feb. 24th, Need ride Colorado
2nd floor La Fortune, refresh­to or New 
Mexico for Spring Break. Callments. Come. 

Steve, 1059. 
LOST AND FOUND Wanted: Piano player, part ·time, 
Fri. & Sat. evening. Dinner music.

LOST: RED MITTEN. PLEASE 
Apply in person. Down Under

CALL CATHY, 6924. REWARD. 
Restaurant. 900 E. Ireland Road. 

LOST: Ladies gold watch. Great Need ride to N.J. for spring break.
sentimental value. Reward. Call Will share$ and driving. Call 6986.
5434. 
2 ouvs need ride desperately toLost . Dark frame glasses. Call 

Miami, Fla. on March 7. Call Pete

8626. 
8810, will share driving &. ex­
penses.

Lost: Black umbrella with brown handle in South Dining Half ..west, Wednesday. Call 7077. Reward. 
p.m. in the LaFortune first floor came up early last semester when
David Rust 
the then newly formed Women's
lounge on questions of women and
Staff Reporter 
Caucus sent representatives to themen in a sexist society. 
infirmary to inquire about its
Announcements concerning
Notre Dame's Women's Caucus range of services, according to
times and locations for future
gave its approval last night to Daniels.
discussion and business meetings
distribution of a questionnaire will be posted on the door of the "We were referred to Director of concerning campus health care Center. as well as published by The Student Services Fr. Jamesservices to university graduate Observer. Shilts." said Daniels, and finallyand undergraduate women. 
Concerning the questionnaire, a ended up seeing Acting Vice­Meeting in the library lounge, :16-question form has already been President for Student Affairs Dr.
the Caucus also announced the prepared by a Caucus team of Philip Faccenda.
coming of a special presentation at "He spoke to us of the possibility 
Sally Dunn and Nancy Daniels,
Notre Dame by two women of finding out what the student
and revised by Sr. Theresa San­
theologians from Chicago's Jesuit body thought as a whole," Daniels
dok. More revision is possible
Seminary. the Rev. Peggy Way before it is released. McGrattan explained. "Immediatelyand Sr. Marjorie Tuite, planned as following this he got the infirmary
was chosen by the group to see
an afternoon discussion and to publish for the first time a
Assistant to the Provost Sr. John
l'vening lecture for Sunday March statement of policy.
Miriam Jones for her help in 
making the questionnaire "It was way too vague," added"I'm expecting it to be a very Daniels. "but at least now we hadavailable.
provocative day," said Caucus something concrete to I!O on."
The Caucus will also add five
ml'mber Alana McGrattan, 
There followed an exchange of
questions culled from that survey
"raising several issues which to the regular university life letters between the Caucus and concern the whole University 
questionnaire that will be Faccenda. Shilts, infirmary
eommunity." 
supervisor Sister Celeste and
distributed to the whole student
Also discussed by the Caucu Sheridan McCabe, counseling
body by the Notre Dame Coun­
were their maintenance of eenter director. Shilts responded
seling Service sometime this
Woman's Center in the library an semester. to Caucus questions with a an invitation to members of th The idea of a questionnaire statement of policy, saying hellniversity community to atten infirmary servicP~ eould not give answers concerningdiscussions held each at . 
Campus ministry offers services to minority groups 
(continued from page 2) America have for coming together to pray and worship are adequately met in services exactly like those available here on campus." He also said that "the student who is looking for a good sermon, a good expression of gathering with others to pray. and helpful aids to \\'orship like good music" usually finds what he's looking for at Notre Dame. "So many of the Protestant students here involve themselves in the services on the campus," Toohey added. 
Episcopalian services are held ('Very Thursday in Holy Cross Hall, he said. and last year regular Lutheran services were held on campus. 
by William Murphy 
eommendation and there was liftle churches informed 
Staff Reporter 
discussion. Many members of the 
A committee established by the "We've informed all the nearby
Union felt that the second t·e·­
Graduate Student Union. given the churches that we have lists of
comendation was too general. It
job of determining a framework students broken down into the
was pointed out that draft
for viable GSU proceedures for religious categories," said the
resistance and possission of cer­
discipline of graduate students, Campus Ministry Director. but
tain quantities of marijuana were
made its recommendations at last only two Episcopalian churches
also felonies which might not
Friday's meeting of the Union. have used the lists.
justify expulsion. The suggestion
The recomendations represent The Episcopalian churches sent
was made that additional in­
possible grounds for exptdsion of a Pach of the students of their faith a
formation should be added to this
graduate student. They are: letter about their services and
provision.
1. Upon an unequivical ex-arranged transportation to ser­
Most of the. discussion centered
pulsion from and by the depart­\'ices every Sunday.
on the fourth --recommendation.
ml'nt in which the student is The ultimate point of the "Every rector and every RA on l'nrolled for an academic violation, discussion was that expulsion was l'very floor has a list of Protestant and. upon a ratifaction of that too strong a penalty to impose for and Jewish servies in the Notre t>xpulsion by the graduate student­Pither guilt of a misdemeanor or Dame community," said Toohey. 
university adjudicatory 
some parietal violation. This item Any student seeking information procedures ; was voted on and rejected by those regarding nearby church services 
2. lipon a felony conviction by present requiring the re­of his faith only need ask an RA or 
the State; rl'l'tor.
comendation to be rewritten. 
:t Upon a finding of guilt of a feloneous offense by the graduate student-university adjudicatory Movie insightprocedures , provided a student is accorded all the consitutional 
procedures rights and protec­
Movies to starWelles
tions granted a criminal in a trial bv the State; ·4. Upon a conviction of a 
world at bay, including the lady.
misdemeanor by the State, or upon by Bill Dowe This is one of Welles' classics. 
a finding that the student is a "Macbeth." <Feb. 20 for better or 
danger to the university's in-For all those who saw "Citizen for worse. is a kind of violentlytellectual or moral standards one Kane." Orson Welles' knack for sketched charcoal drawing of a of the following penalties may be making great movies is apparent. 
great play." <Orson Welles>. 
imposed by the graduate student-A lot has been written about this Impending or inevitable doom is 
u n i-·v e r sit y ad judicatorY .. first Welles' film---nothing more the sense carried by Welles' films, procedures: needs to be said. "The Magnificent so this tragedy is particularly
!a) for a first offense a ~tudent Ambersons" <Feb. 19) is nothing appropriate for film interpretationshould be given a warnmg or like "Citizen Kane." Romantic in by Welles. He has added his own required to obtain off-campus the true sense, it evokes nostalgia touch. some scenes not in housing, or suspended from the for the 'good old days.' Welles' Shakespeare. In the beginning of university: imagination with a camera and the film. the three sisters mold a 
<b'for subsequen~eommissionsof audio techniques makes "The clay likeness of Macbeth. his the same offense the student may Magnificent Ambersons" an "shaping by Fate." "A Touch of be suspended or expelled. impressive film. It is a story of J<:vil" <Feb. 22) is a superb movie, 
The meeting was then thrown love and pride, a romantic if you enjoy being awed. Violence open to individual discussion of the tragedy. "The Lady from is the game--rock-n-roll, bomb­recommendations,. It was first Shanghai'' <Feb. 20> stars Rita throwing, murder, screaming noted that theserecommendations Hayworth as a beautiful, but ut­\'ictims. This flick carries with it a were to be used as maximums and terly cold woman, a sort of star-studded cast---Charlton that lesser penalties were implicit Medusa. Orson Welles, as Michael Heston. Janet Leigh, Orson Welles, within them. Everyone seemed to O'Hara. plays an innocent fool and Joseph Calleia. These movies agree with the first re-whose humor keeps the evils of the are better seen than read. 


Monday, February 19, 1973
the observer
12 

Irish tied for 4th after MSU split 
. ld put on the surge that carried them tally. but ~otre D~me couldn't add ... . 
by Jtm Don~ son ttte. equalizer wh1le on the power Sports Edrtor to victory. play and, for the rest of the period, 
Green drilled a screened slap the Spartans were in control.
Notre Dame's hockey team had shot from the left point by Clark State picked up its first "good"
never won a game against 

only :~8 seconds after Sipola's goal of the night at 9:04 when1\1 ichigan State in East Lansing marker. then both teams went all freshman Steve Colp, standing inand. after absorbing a 10-2 lacing out for the critical next goal. the slot. deflected a shot from theFriday night and frittering away a Neither club was able to make right by Moroney betweenthree-goat"lead Saturday, it looked good on a power play chance but, Kronholm's legs.
like that record would remain when Steve Curry set up Israelson The Spartans' lead increased tounchanged. 
at 17:15, the junior left wing didn't -l-1 just over three minutes later, miss his opportunity. 1\loroney popping in a rebound of a
But Bill Green and Larry Israelson scored late goals to "I wanted to shoot," Curry said, Norm B"<lrnes point shot. \) \ mabie the Irish to salvage the "hut I saw Larry wide open by the It seemed that the Irish might 
• t_ second game of their four-point side of the net and hit him." have gained some much-needed 
momentum when Curry managed

series with State, 6-5, and move Curry took a pass-shot from the to score with only one second left ininto a tie for fourth place in the right point that went straight to the pPriod. The junior defenseman tight WCHA race with Michigan Israelson. standing alone by the took a pass from John NobleTech. 
far post. and Israelson deftly breaking out of the ND zone,The split enabled Notre Dame to directed the pass into the net. burned down the right side and putwin its season series with the ·'I was all alone," Israelson said. <1 backhander into the far upperSpartans, 3-1, and up its league "I saw Curry look at me, then he '-· cner.
record to 15-9 <17-13, overall). Both gnve me a perfect pass and I That only changed the score,Tech,1 which has a 12-10 WCHA tipped it in. The net was wide howPver. Although MSU didn'tmark, and Notre Dame have 36 
open." score as often. it dominated thetitle points~but the Irish, who have 
second period even more than the ·12 points left to play for, hold an Friday's game was also wide initial session. Outshooting the 
advantage over the Huskies, who open. The Spartans flad been Irish. 29-9, the Spartans built their have only eight points remaining. 
l'mbarrasse)l.twice at Notre Dame l£'ad to 7-2 on tallies by Thorn Ross, 
Irish goalie Mark Kronholm set l'arlierin the season, losing 8-5 and Barnes (power play> and Frank a re~ord he-would have preferred 13-5, and they were determined to DeMarco and, had it not been for not to Friday night, making 68 let the Irish know what it was like. sPveral fine saves by Kronholm. saves---nine more than Dick Blitzing Notre Dame for two goals the score could easily have been Tomasoni made in a 5-1 loss·, tQ in the first 43 seconds, MSU almost higher. Wisconsin three years ago---as ran the Irish out of the ancient Ice Things didn't get any better for MSU handed Notre Dame its worst Arena. Notre Dame in the third period. It league beating of the season. State scored on its first trip into took State only 1:20 to pick up their 
the Notre Dame zone when Sipola Pighth goal, Colp stealing the puck Saturday's game was a see-saw eame down the left side and flipped from Noble at center ice, skatingcontest in which Notre Dame, a hard wrist shot from a tough around Green and flipping one bywhich led 3-0 in the first period, angle that bounced off Kronholm's Kronholm from in close.
had to rally from 4-3 and 5-4 
ehest and into the net. A little over a minute later, thedeficits tu best the third place Stunned by the early tally, the Spartans got another one in theSpartans (13-7-1, 37 title points). 
Irish were shocked 15 seconds later net. Hoss came up with his second "The monkey was on our backs 
when Mark Calder gunned a goal when he put in John Sturges' camP out flying the following Hay DeLorenzi set up NotreSaturday," Irish coach "Lefty" slapper from 35 feet that found the rebound. Double figures weren't night. scoring only 33 seconds after Dam<''s second goal by picking upSmith said. "It was a game we had corner to Kronholm's right. long in coming. DeMarco's second the opening faceoff. Williams fed a loose puck behind the net, cir­to win. I was extremely proud of Two coinciding Spartan goal. at 7:24, made it 10-2. Bill Nyrop at center ice and the big cling out. and sliding the disc ineveryone. They had many chances penalties at 2:30 set up Notre Afterwards, MSU coach Amo defenseman blew past an MSU front. Israelson had the firstwhen they might have folded but Dame's first goal. Curry started Bessone remarked, "Those two defender and whipped a 25-footer chance at Clark but his shot 
they showed an important 
the scoring play with a shot from <-arly goals· set the momentum in into the lower left corner. bounced off the junior goalie'singredient in Notre Dame athletes the point that caromed off an MSU our favor. They gave us a big In eontrast to the previous night, pads. Fortunately for the Irish, the 
and came back. They did a helluva 
defender to Ian Williams, who boost. and we kept on forechecking Notre Dame controlled the action, rebound W€'nt right to Paul Regan,job--th£' whole bunch." skated in a couple of steps· and and skating. We played the way keeping the Spartans bottled up in who shoved it in from just outside 
The Irish might well have folded shot. Ed Bumbacco managed to Notre Dame did in South Bend and their owJ.1 end. The Irish didn't get the crease. after Bill Sipola's breakaway goal get his stick on the puck and put it they looked a lot like we did down many good shots, though, and it Williams gave Notre Dame a 3-0 midway through the final period hy State goalie Ron Clark. there." wasn't until the 14:34 mark that l<'ad at 15:43 when he deflected a put State on top, 5-4. Instead, they It took just 34 seconds for that Stung by Friday's loss, the Irish their aggressiveness paid off. 20-foot shot by Mark Steinborn 
through Clark's legs, but the Spartan& managed to cut the margin to 3-1 on Moroney's power play goal at 18:46.

Duke withstands ND rally 
State completed its comeback in the second session, rallying to tie 

by "Lefty' Ruschmann early in the second period, as the score on goals by Colp and Shumate and Crotty sank goals Hoss. then going ahead, 4-3, withNotre Dame's basketball team and Brokaw scored on a layup to only 28 seconds left on Bob Boyd'sslipped back down to the .500 level make it 40-39 in favor of the Blue rebound tally.
Saturday night, dropping an 86-74 Devils. Bob Fleischer interrupted Momentum started to swing thedecision to the Duke Blue Devils at with a hook, but Pete Crotty threw Spartans' way when Colp, parkedCamt.'ron Indoor Stadium. 
in a basket an~ was fouled. Crotty in front of the ND net, deflected in 

The Irish, now 11-11 this year, missed the tying free throw, and on 

a point shot by Chris Murfey at 
have lost back-to-hack contests, three other occasions the Irish 13:49. Just under two minutes while the Blue Devils stand 12-9 missed opportunities to tie or go later. some nifty passing made upand have now won 17 consecutive ahead. 
the tying goal. Speeding down the contests at their Durham, N.C. 

Melchionni played a major role right wing, John Sturges made a home court. 

I <, in quelling the Notre Dame perfect feed to Ross, in the middle, 
I I Notre Dame, after suffering a uprising. almost single­and the frosh star beat Kronholm. 
I sPvere first -half shooting drought, handedly pacing the Duke attack in Notre Dame wasn't even able to rallied early in the second period to the final minutes. The Irish, leave the ice with a tie, as Boyd
I 
close to within one point, but the r~ou!}t~ring with Dwight Clay's pumped home the rebound of a rebounding strength of the Duke · outside shooting,, stayed in the Sturges shot with only 28 seconds front line, plus a solid performance contes( forcing Blue Devil coach left in the period. hy the Blue Devils' backcourt star Bucky Waters to change liis game~ Steinborn had an excellent (;ary Melchionni, proved to be too plan. chance to tie the score just before much for the scrappy Irish. the final horn, but Clark stopped
With 5:31 to go and Duke in front 


, Melchionni led all scorers with 19 by 71-66, Waters ordered his team his unmolested 15-footer with his points and also contributed eight into a deliberate four-corner of­pads. The Irish did get a break, rebounds and five assists to the though. when MSU's Barnes fell onfense. with Melchionni handling
Blue Devils' cause. Four other Steinborn's rebound and was
the ball in the middle. The I>uke players finished in double strategy--to get the good shot or to called for a delay of game penalty 
figures. as did all five Notre Dame with only one second showing on
draw the foul--worked in part. The 

starters. paced by John Shumate the clock.
Irish fouled for possession, but 

(17) and Peter Crotty <15). The bjg Duke's foul shooting was sloppy As a result, the Irish opened the I>uke front line also enjoyed a 50-40 final period on the power play and
and Notre Dame lingered in 

rebounding advantage, with their tied the score, 4-4. when DeLorenzi 
contention at 78-72 with 2:42 to go

forecourt threesome of AI Shaw, hit the twine with· a rebound of
before the Blue Devils finally

Chris Hedding and Bob Fleischer Israelson's.
dosed the visitors out. 

a11 enjoying double-figure nights The Spartans regained the lead under the boards. Digger Phelps, assessing tbe at 10:2,6 when Sipola stole the puck But it was Duke's superior performance of his Irish team, from Curry at the State blue line shooting which decided the con­thought it "wasn't patient enough and skated in alone on Kronholm, 
test. The Irish were able to hit only on offense, and missed too many sliding the puck under the Irish 
good shots." But the Notre Dame goalie for the tally.

:~8 percent of their shots <against Duke's 50 percenO, due mainly to mentor expressed overall But then Green and Israelson their first-half scoring famine. satisfaction, saying, "We didn't turned in their heroics and the During that stretch, Notre Dame quit when we~were down by"I8, and Irish picked up one of the year's 
made only 3 of 23 field goal that's a good 5ign for a young most satisfying triumphs.
team."

attempts in the first 13 and a half Notre Dame will wind up its minutes. while the home squad The Notre Dame road schedule regular season home schedule next fattened an early 13-8 lead to continues Tuesday nigJlt when the Friday and Saturday against the eventually 25-8 and and eventually 5:54 to go in the first half gave field-gael attempts to close to Irish invade Morgantown, W. Va., league-leading Wisconsin Badgers, to 30-12, their largest of the Duke their long lead of 18 points, within seven at 40-33 at in­to face the West Virginia the nation's top-ranked hockey evening. the Irish rallied in spectacular termission. University Mountaineers. Tipoff team. Faceoff both nights at the 

~fter Pete Kramer's layup with fashion, hitting 11 of their next 13. The Irish comeback continued time is 8 p.m. ACC will be at 7:30 p.m. 

Defenseman Bill Green. Notre Dame's co-captain, fired in a shot from the point to tie Saturday night's game with Michigan State, 5-5. The Irish went on to win, 6-5. 






