On The Inside 
Letters to the Editor ... page 4 Little Big Screen ... page 5 

serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VIII, No. 54 
Academic Council polled concerning new calendar 
by Howard Wood and Claude Devaney 
In a sruvey of 35 members of the Academic Council The Observer )ound that twelve ' h '74-'75
members object to a recall vote on t e new academic calendar presented by Provost James Burtchaell, CSC. A recall vote would entail reconsideration of the new calendar. 
The survey also revealed that seven members had "had no objection to a recall vote." Six new members stated thatthey would have to hear new arguments before making a decision on the matter. Seven members had 'no comment.' 
The 12 members that object are returning members on the Council. They were on the Council in Dtecember 1972 that voted to give the Administrati,an the right to draw up a new calendar. 
Dr. Robert Gordon,vicepresident for advanced studies, objects to a recall vote. "I don't believe in bringing back old issues in order to vote on them again." 
University Registrar Richard Sullivain objects for a different reason. "There is an immediate need for a calendar to operate. I can't wait any longer." 
Dr. Morris Pollard, director of Lobund Laboratory,· opposes the proposed pre-Labor Day start but does not think that a recall vote will help. "Anew vote would create more havoc. 
It's too late.. " 
The seven members of last year's Council that do not object to a recall . vot~ offere.d their comments. Fr. Jerome Wilson,v1ce pres1dentfor student affairs, stated, "I accept all things Fr. Burtchaell enunciated, but if there was a recall I would take careful consideration and think it over very seriously before I would change my vote." 
Professor Frederick Crosson, of the College of Arts and Letters, who is "neutral" toward the new calendar, stated, "I have an open mind toward a recall vote. I want to hear arguments on both sides before I make a decision." 
Six of the ten new members of the Academic Co111ncil interviewed said the could not make a decision until he heard the arguments presented. 
These are the results of the survey. Members who objected to a recall vote: 
Dr. Robert Gordon 
Professor Le Corbaci 
Dr. Bernard Waldman 
Professor Thomas Murphy 
Mr. Richard Sullivan 
Dr. John Magee 
Mr. John Goldrick 
Dr. Edward Vasta Dr. Timothy O'Meara Dr. Kenyon Tweedell Professor Francis Beytagh Dr. John Fitzgerald 
Mem hers who did not object to a recall vote: Reverend Jerome Wilson, CSC Professor Frderick Crosson Mr. David Sparks Dr. J. Philip Gleason Professor Bernard Norling Dr. Charles Mullin Professor Stephen Kertesz 
New members who did not object to a recall 
vote: Dr. George Brinkley Dr. Thomas Fehlner Mr. James Stevens Bro. Finian Taylor 
No new members objected to a rec llvote. All the others would hear arguments before making a decision. They were: 
Professor Walter Kicgorski Professor James Robinson Professor Mario Picconi Professor R. Williamson Dr. Gerlad Jones Mr. James Low 
Members in favor of the new calendar: Fr. Wilson Dr. Gordon Professor Corbaci Dr. Waldman Dr. Emil Hofman Mr. Goldrick Professor Kertesz. Reverent Robert Austgen, CSC Mr. Sullivan Dr. Vasta Bro. Taylor 
Members not in favor of the calendar: Dr. Pollard Dr. Jones Professor Norling Dr. Gleason Dr. Charles Allen Dr. Millin Dr. Tweed ell Members indifferent to new calendar: Professor Crosson Dr. Magee Mr. Sparks Dr. Fitzgerald Professor Beytagh 
No comment concerning calendar: Fr. Ferdinand Brown, CSC Dr. Hoesphy Hogan Dr. William Burke 
Monday, December 3. 1973 
Powell explains CPA criteria 
by Terry Keeney Staff Reporter 
Dr. Ray Powell, chairman of the department of accountancy, denied any impropriety in using university grade point averages to determine enrollment in the CPA coaching class next semester. 
"I know of nothing in University annals which in the way of academic regulations prevents a chairman­alternately a Department or the University-from setting a standard for entry into a course or program," Powell explained in an interview over the weekend. 
Powell admitted that of the 167 senior accounting majors only those with GPA above 2.775 were eligible for the 105 course cards. To Powell, the equitable way to distribute the course cards was the GPA criteria. 
"Given the existing faculty availability and facing the problems," siad Powell, "it was my professional judgment that this was as equitable as any method." 
Powell pointed out that a week of consultation with senior accounting majors could not produce a more efficient method. 
GPA confidentiality 
Powell denied that he had violated the con­fidentiality of the GPA by releasing a listing of all accounting majors in order from high to low. He in­sisted that he preserved the confidentiality. 
"I said to the students as we met the other evening: the student ranking I am making available to them in the enrollment process is confidential; they were not to remove it from the room," Powel, said. 
Powell noted that those enrolled in the CPA coaching course were required to give the listing of grade point averages to a professor as proof of their enrollment. Only one student failed to return the GPA listing,Powell claimed. 

Dr. Powell, interviewed recently, discussed GPA as a criteria for CPA coaching course. 
Blacks threaten to boycott Bow I 
committee, which is comprised of
by Gary Allietta 1) make some blacks members about the selection of the Sugar saying she would hold it wiless she 
57 whites, had been planning all of
Staff Reporter of the Mid-Winter Sports :Bowl queen and her four member found that it was given to her
the activites with no consideration Association executive committee, court. Customarily said Du Bos, because she was black. She stated, for blacks. 
with no probationary periods; area colleges nominate a girl, and "Mter carefull consideration of allDu Bos said that in November, 2) employ blacks in the office of the Sugar Bowl committee chooses meftlct's . . . Fve decided there isThis year's Sugar Bowl has the Association created an ad­the Association; the queen. not sufficient reason at this point tobecome the center of controversy visory board of 23 new members, 3) hire blacks to sell and collect This year, six girls were withdraw from participation in the for a group of New Orleans' blacks. six of whom were black. On Nov. 
tickets at the Sugar Bowl game. nominated, three blacks and three Sugar Bowl court."
According to Dr. Guy Gipson, a 19, all of the blacks chosen refused Gipson added that if the whites. One of the white girls was Johnson felt that the actions
black educator in the city, if the the position, saying that the board Mid-Winter Sports Association had no purpose and that their demands are not met, his group chosen as queen, and the other two of the selection committee were 
will take action to discourage fans as first and third attendants. Two fai~ and above reproach. "Itis my which runs the Sugar Bowl does positions were only token. 
from attending the game. He of the blacks were chosen as hope that blacks can contributenot meet his group's demands, As an offspring of the event, the said, "When we talk about direct second and fourth attendants. significantly to the Sugar Bowlthere will be an "all out boycott" of six blacks, who represent the fields action, we talk about all kinds of One of the blaeks refused the game ~ not kill. it," she said.
the bowl games by blacks. of education, tourism, finance, demonstrations." position, saying that it was a token There has been no commentClancy Du Bos, a staffwriter for media, business, and government, Gipson called on all black par­gesture, Her place was offered to about. the situation from city of­the New Orleans Times Picayune, formed their own committee. 
ticipants in the Sugar Bowl, in­the remaining black girl, Sandra ficials in New Orleans as yet. 'Du~defined the Association as the Gipson, who also chairs an NAACP cluding players, coaches, queens Johnson. Du Bos said that as far as Bos feels that the police aregroup which sponsors all the Sugar ad hoc committee on the Mid­and band members, as well as fans he knows, this is the first time "trying to cool it," for takingBowl activities such as the spor-Winter Sports Association, became and townspeople, to boycott the there has been a black in the Sugar action on, this very seriousting. contests, parades, and other spokesman for the group and New Orlenas classic. Bowl court. latent problem would only en­events. Gipson asserted that the ,J outlined their demands as follows: Another controversy arose Johnson accepted the l>OSition, courage its eruption. 

~2~------~th~e~o~b_s_e__r_v_e_r______~M~o~n~d~av~·~De~c~~ 

llriefs 
.. ISRAEL-The Israeli military command reported nine incidents on the tense Egyptian and Syrian cease-fire lines Saturday and said guerrillas fired on Israeli troops near the Lebanese border. 
A military spokesman claimed forces from Egypt's 2nd Army opened fire on Israeli troops four times during the day east of Lake Timasah southeast of Ismailia. He said units from Egypt's Third Army opened fire in four other incidents in the Small Bitter Lake area. 
.. WASHINGTON-President Nixon plans to set up a new federal agency reporting directly to him to manage. the fuel crisis ad­ministration and congressional sources said Saturday. ' 
An administration source .said the agency, to be named the Federal Energy Administration and headed by Deputy Treasury Secretary William E. Simon, would be announced by Simon on Monday. 
.. WASHINGTON-Roy Ash, director of the Office of Management and Budget, said the administration will fall short of its goal of a balanced budget this fiscal year by $2 billion to $3 billion. 
No decision has been made, he added, as to whether to try again to balance the budget in fiscal 1975. 
an campua today 
4,7,10 p.m.-shakespeare film series, romeo and julet, engineering auditorium, free 
6:30 p.m.-meeting, inpirg, fiesta lounge, Iafortune 8 p.m.-perspective series, "on the structure and functions. of metaphysical propositions," by stephen korner, new biology auditorium, free ' 
8:15 p.m.--organ recital, arthur lawrence,sacred heart cathedri\1, free 


SMC Commissions denounce calendar 
by Peggy Frericks break and again at Thanksgiving. It would also break up the con­
Staff Reporter 
tinuity of courses. The com­The Hall Life Commission and missions will be channeling their .the Student Affairs Commission at dissatisfaction through the 
Academic Commissioner.
St, Mary's issued a joint statement last night denouncing the new According to Ann Smith of the 
Hall Life Commission, "St, Mary's 
student calendar. The statement supported the HPC's stance on the students are just as dissatis(ied calendar. 
with the new calendar as Notre Joanne Garrett of the Student 
Dame students are because of its Affairs Commission stated, impracticality. We, along with the "Coexchange classes are of the HPC, urge a reconsideration of the 
calendar."
utmost importance in the calendar disagreement." 
The Observer is publiShed daily
The commissions' objections 
during the college semester except 
against the new calendar are two­
vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions 
fold. The pre-Labor Day start will 
interfere with the summer jobs of 
may be purchased for $8 per
many students. The commissions~ 
semester !Sl.C per year) from The 
argued that the ten day break at 
Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
the end of October is impractical. 
It would be too expensive for many 
46556. 
students to go ho_me during_ this 

Price ShatteringSale 
f·ll Value Now Only 




JZ,_,, 
~-.-(J.t~~-~ 
....:.\.,~~~
·tit:.)'.&' -. . \-\;_cf~J . 


r~MO!!~~~ 
NOW AVAILABLE AT 
HE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOK STORE 
A Representative of

Sorin resident 
UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA

stricken,listed in 
GRADUATESCHOOLOF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION


criticalcondition 
will be on campus

by Melissa Byrne Staff Reporter 
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 7th 

Joseph Furlong, a Notre Dame 
Graduate Study Information 

sophomore and resident of Sorin 
MBA: MS: and DBA programs in Business Ad­
Hall, was admitted to St. Joseph 
ministration
Hospital on Friday morning, Nov. 
Contact Placement Bureau 283-6255
30, after suffering an aneurysm (an imperfect blood vessel which burst in the brain). 
Furlong is still in critical con­dition. He is now breathing on his own and his heartbeat is good. "He gains consciousness for a little 
~ 

longer period each day," said Fr. 
• Richard Zang, rector of Sorin Hall. "He is still in the intensive care unit at the hospital." 
Furlong went to the Notre Dame Infirmary on Friday morning 
~· 

where he was under treatment for a sore throat. He was at the in­firmary when he lapsed into un­consciousness. 
Furlong's parents flew to South Bend from their home in Pelham, New York, late Friday evening. 
"There has been widespread 


1~11111

concern for Joe on campus," said Zang. "The Furlong family has been very pleased with the concern 
Upon presentation of Student 1 D 

they've seen by everyone here at Notre Dame." 
Dec. 3-7 

Sorin Hall offered a mass on 
Please present I D before cashier rings 

Friday for Furlong's recovery. "About all we can do now is pray 
sale. 

for Joe," said Tom Foristel, Furlong's roommate. 
CAMPUS 

~ 
•

REPRESENT~\TIVE 
NEEDED 
~~ 

We custom make commemorative & personalized plaques that lend themselves to selling through an imaginative person who can promote to other individuals and 
~'&j.

groups such as fraternities, churches, high schools, etc. Our 
• 

reps achieve best results coor­dinating our efforts with their own. 
The person that we select should be able to manage other sales people at some future date. Your reply should include the year you will graduate and lhe amount of time each week !hell you can invest, Also include your thoughls on how a commemorative plaque 


1111111'19
Shop: Monday-Saturday 10·10, Sund1y 10-8 Phone: 259--0880

could best be promoted on your 
campus should Notre Dame win the Sugar Bowl. 
100 Center Complex Mishawaka 
In the Old Kamm·s Brewery

NORTHCRAFT 
PRODUCTS Box 1 Westport, I"Y 12993 
Student Union Presents: 
Notre Dame 
Football Special! 
Train Trip Package to the Sugar Bowl 

or1ly $130.00 * 
Package includes: -Round trip train fare from Chicago -Food and Party on the Train -4 days and 3 nights in the Brandiff Place Hotel (located 5 blocks from Bourbon Street) 

Packageli Available Monday 7-9 pm StudEtnt Union Ticket Office 
+Deposit of $25 required-balance due on Dec. 10 
+ Packa~1e does not include football ticket. 


-

New reality therapy is stressed 
Monday, December 3. 1973 the observer 
by Mary Kay Baron 

alternatives for the kids to develop precedes, to maintain the status
Staff Reporter 

a success-identity for success filled quo (It's always done that way). I am me activities," said Dr. McGuiness. principle. I am happy to be me Explaining the need for Some of the conditions which

Observer lnsi-:~ht
because being me is good! programs such as these, Sister produced this change in priorities 
Maria stated, "I think that people are the era of affluence, political 
Only I can be me, 
So assist me in Opening my l"s. 
"We need to be accepted as an individual, genuinely, before we can work for a goal. Our own self­worth superc-edes our working toward a career. . . " 
Ideas such as these evolved from Saturday's all-day "Success-­Failure in an Identity Society" workshop, heldl in Caroll Hall Saint Mary's Colleg-e. Coordinated by Sister Maria tC. McDermott, the workshop was the first of a 3 consecutive week series lecture program offered to all school 
Pow~ell: GPA is good course determinant 
(continued from page 1) 
Powell, "which probably says more about the student's professional attitude at this time." 
He called thE~ complaints of GPA confidentiality a "red herring." He feels the dissension among ac­counting seniors was not caused by 
the method of selection, individuals' dissatisfactbeing refused the course.  but ion  by on  
Added no sections  

The accounting department could not add sections of the CPA coaching course to accommodate all those wanting the course. Powell observ~ed that his depart­ment had a 40 per cent increase in student enrollment over two years while the university ad­ministration denied permission to hire more faculty. 
Powell added, "Meanwhile we 
;1111111111111111111111111 u11111111111111111111111111111111 


Co-Ex Tickets 
Dec. 3: Morrissey, Pangborn, HolyCross Dec. 4: Standord, Howard Sorin 
Badin ' ' Dec. 5: Flanner, Walsh, St. Joe's Dec. 6: Dillon, Farley, St. Ed's 
Dec. 7: Keenan, Cavanaugh, B-P Dec. 8:Grace Lyons Dec. 9: Morrissey, Pangborn, Holy
Cross Dec. 10: Alumni, Zahm, Fisher 
IIIHHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIUII 

TB TESTS 
MA~NDATORY FOR TUTORS 
cht~cks 11-'J p.m. Fri. Dec. 11 at Lafortune 
all must report 
call 5731 fo~ lnfo' 
personnel who have contacts with children in school on any level. The workshop is open also to those who want to improve their knowledge of and implemen~ation of good interpersonal relation­ships. 
Approximately 90 people at­tended the workshop. Dr. Thomas McGuiness, director of research and development, Educator Training Center Institute for Reality Therapy, Los Angeles, California led discussions about "involvement in An Identity Society," and conducted demonstrations of group dynamics 
have two less faculty due to retirements and terminations and it is impossible to add sections of CPA coaching which would permit enrollment beyond three sections of 35 students each." 
Powell favors the use of the GPA as determinant of the CPA course. He cited a two-year study of CPA examinees in Kansas and Illinois which demonstrates that the better the grade point average the better chance of passing the test. Only one Notre Dame student of 2.8 cumulative grade point who took the CPA test last year passed according to Powell. 
When asked if a university could legally use the grade point average as the sole criteria for course admittance, Powell replied that he saw no reason why it could not. 
"Having served in the post of Chairman for fourteen years I know of no proscription which precludes the university from doing this," said Powell. 
Get your shoes repaired BEFORE Christmas Break at 



TONY'S 
Shoe Shop 
Behind Adm. Bldg. 

and role playing. 
According to Dr. McGuiness, reality therapy is a reaction to traditional forms of therapy, a common sense approach to helping people, whether they be children or adults, to become more respon­sible for themselves their learning and behavior. 
"It's a set procedure for helping people help each other, built upon the primary foundation of caring, or becoming involved in a warm personal way," stated the reality therapist. 
To Dr. McGuiness, an ideal learning situation would be one in which "a child's emplacement should insure some degree of success in that activity. A learning activity should create a place where the student can't fail and a place where you never run out of 


WHAT'S YOUR GIRL BACK HOME 
DOING TONIGHT? 
Long distance still is the next best thing to being there. And you can save money by calling nights or weekends. 
1 
i 
@ Indiana Bell 
.. ·' 

who work with other people must understand the imporatnace of the individual in a.n. id~ntity societyi such as we are livmg I~ where y~ur role--who you are-Is more m1­portant than your goal." ' 
The identity concepts of this new reality therapy maintain that our priorities have changed. A major cultural shift has occurred from the. pre-world War II Survival Society to the Post-World War II Identity Society. 
Dr. McGuiness contends that students today are searching for an identity or a role before a goal. They feel the internal pressures of "what I want to do" rather than the external pressures of school and parents. Today, students are moreconcerened with the internal locus of control, they want to know the rationale, and the concept of personal growth and change 
idealogues, and the television and advertising industries, said Dr. McGuiness while the TV promises to solve all problems in 28 minutes, the ;advertisement replace the gBai""selr with the "role" sell. 
Dr.' McGuiness concluded that society has become established in which a person needs to know who he is before he decides what he is to become. Personal worth, caring about each other and in­interdependence in a changing society are key components of the new trend. 
Other topics and guest speakers for the remaining two workshops in the series are : "Reality Therapy" demonstrated by Beth Crofoot, Institute of Reality In­ternalized or externalized?" which will be presented by Sister Maria Concepta McDermott of Saint Mary's. 





THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 

P.O. Box Q 
Art Ferranti i_xecutive Editor 
Lee Gentine Business Manager 
Jerry Lutkus Editor-in-Chief 
NEWS: 283-1715 EDITORIALS: 283-8661 6USINESS: ?113-7471 
Monday, December 3, 1973 

Some Class, Ice Fans 
Friday night after the lackadasical hockey teamts loss to a slow Denver team, a frustrated fan hurled an empty glass bottle in the direction of the Denver bench, nearly missing a player. No frustration, not even the terrible per­formance of ND's "star-studded" team, justifies that criminal act. Yet, no usher grabbed the assailant and no person in the section around him turned him over to the authorities. 
H the bottle had found its mark, a player could have been seriously injured and the bottle-throwing act could have been considered an assault-a criminal offense. Yet, the student who heaved the bottle got off scot-free. 
It's really time for this kind of nonsense to stop. Steve Klein, hockey writer for The South Bend Tribune, claims that ND is getting a reputation around the WCHA as a really classless nlace because 
Greet The Best 

Tonight at 7:30, the Fighting Irish football team returns to Notre Dame with their l(H) mark and carries with them a bid to play for the national championship in the Sugar Bowl. 
When Digger's charges returned to ND last season with a second place finish in the NIT, the circle was mobbed with students. When the football team returns with its first undefeated season since 1949 tonight at 7:30, the circle again should be jammed. It would be great if the band could also join the celebration as we welcome back the next national cham­pions. 
-Butch Ward 

of the litter that is generally thrown on the ice and the abuse that is given to the 
-Jerry Lutkus 

officials.  And  incidents  like  this  one  
merely  serve  to  make  the  situation  
worse.  


What 

One year ago, the move to renovate LaFortune Student Center began in earnest. After a year of work, a final model, a philsophy and a complete renovation plan was completed. But since then, the renovation schemes have been sufficiently squelched. What happened to them? 
losing Faith 
Editor: 
Regarding the piece by Father McNally in today's Observer in which he disputes the facts of Professor Vasoli (Decreasing Mass Attendance, Diminishing Importance of Theology, Fewer Religious on Campus--and the generally recognized fact of the 
waning  of  Catholicism  on  this  
campus):  Father  McNally  
evidences  a  sign  of  either  

stupidity, blindness, dishonesty, or naivete. As a fellow priest and one who has been on this campus for 35 years I hope the word "naivete" applies in this instance--which is defined in the Thorndike-Barnhard Dictionary, 1972 edition, as "simplicity, as in a small child". As a matter of fact it appears to the undersigned that Fr. McNally's final sentence "despite its flaws, 
<Notre Dame) is a good place to be..." is an echo of another statement allegedly made by another esc priest a few years ago: "What better place for a man to lose his faith, than at Notre Dame?" 
<Rev) Edmund J. Murray CSC 

Dylan and the Dome 
Editor: 
It causes me great pain to know that even a talent of the magnitude and greatness such as Bob Dylan can hold second fiddle to the great god Sports that has been erected here in our little community.· The opportunity to have here an ar(ist thathas been called by some one of the great lyricists and songwriters of the twentieth century, and then to throw this opportunity to the wind, because of a basketball game, seems to me to be both revealing of where the collective head of this community is at, and a disregarding of the feelings of those here at the University who feel there are other things that exist in this world besides athletic games, competetive sports, jocks, sneakers, and stale sweat socks. 
Reactions I received. from those around me, went along the linesof, "what did you expect, this is Notre Dame..." I don't want to believe that this is typically Notre Dame, or that the most important thing about going to college here is what sport you play, who your favorite team is, or how you can work your studying around Dandy Don's, Hilarious Howard's, and Fabulous 
Dan Barrett Executive Edito1r 
John Kloos Advert1sina Man;1qer 

'A5 tilE 
f'RANK.t.:t,
RGCAU-5 

eoss, I'M &LA~C
11, 


daanesbury

''VOT& YO(J 
/UOI?I?IE!J.

HAYB£/" P!Ptl!N&?" fAR.
\ our... 
Frank's Monday night football 
extravaganza. 
I would like to believe when we 
are given the opportunity to see 
some one as great as Dylan, and 
yes, even witness alittle bit of 
history when we see him, that we 
won't be deprived of that rare 
opportunity because of something 
with as little segnifigance as a 
basketball game. I daresay, you 
would haveseen an ACC iammed to 
the rafters withcheering,admiring 
people, rather than a perhaps two­
thirds full arena with an oc­
casionally ch· ~ring crowd 
(everyone know _nat N.D. fans 
only cheer whF the team is doing 
well),if only' . re had been a little 
more con8 . :ration of tl entire 
student community, rath~r than 
for the po• on of us who aeed to 
watch gar. to ' up o•lr lives, 
and who r' ',.· ng or losing to 
be so dar.. l' .1t. They really 
lost this time d they lost badly. 
Sincerely, Patrick Dillon St. Joseph Hall 
<.A 
·v· .tory Gas 
Ed. 
"!-:venience's Sake", the 
headk·f' ·Joseph Abell's editorial 
on ~r 28, is much more 
ar p]i ·u to the editorial itself 
th ,u its contents. Fourteen 
c' n-ine.. ;S devoted to a single 
thought--that the public must 
suffer in, 1venience due to the 
e1 :J •·' c1 is while the military 
g t dibs on fuel without 
any ion program. And 
all • _.;tcu The military has 
issuf'd d;-,ves for lowering of 
thern•'J'-'• ., and conserving 
elect: city by eliminating un­
necessary lighting, as Mr. Abell 
could have found out in a couple of 
two minute phone calls to any of 
the armed forces in South Bend, as 
I did. Common sense would 
suggest as much. 
And what is the line about "the 
president. . assuring his military 
strength" supposed to mean? It 
seems to me that having for the 
military assures our military 
strength. What if North Viet­
namese fighter planes bombed or 
attacked the west coast of the USA 
tomorrow? It takes fuel to run 
ships, aircraft, land vehicles, and 
communications facilities, and 
they can't afford to run out. 
Perhaps Mr. Abell would prefer to live in a country defending itself in · today'sworld sailboats, hot air balloons, mules, and carrier 
pigeons. I wouldn't. 
Fred Meyers, EE '74 



,..rrytnsdeau 
the observer 
Managing Editor: Joe Abell News Editor: Tom Drape Editorial Editor: Butch Ward SMC Editor: Maria Gallagher Features Editor: Kathy Schwille Sports Editor: Vic Dorr Wire Editor: Ann McCarry Associate Editor: Anthony Abowd Associate Editor: Rod Braye Associate Editor: Marlene Zloza 
ISSUE STAFF Night Editor: Bill Brink Assistant Night Editor: Dan Sanchez Typists: Howard Halle, Connie Fourre, 
Nancy Toohy, Joe Abell Day Editor: Mary Janca Special Guest Copy Editor: Terry Keeney Compugraphic Operator: Phil Orschein Pictures: Jerome Phillips Night Controller: Joe Abell 

Monday, December 3, 1973 the observer 
scenes from tucson 
,,,,,,,,.,,,,,,,,.,.....,.,,.,.,, Rising behind the Spanish well, at left, are the Indian Picture Rocks, inscribed by an unknown tribe 800 years ago. 
A typical scene, right, photographed near the guest ranch where Tucson program girls reside. 
1 

At left, a well at the Picture Rock Retreat House. 
A cactus loom on the Arizona horizon. 
Anyone interested in ap­plying for the Tucson program should contact Sr. Alma immediately. 

Little Big Screen from 'the homecoming' 
_,.""'~­
>#. ',.,. .., ....... ' .... 
""'~ ;-r 
...·p· 
-· 


to 'my sweet charlie' 
art ferrllnti 


All good things must come to au end, so too with this paper, and hence this column since Friday will be The, Observer's last issue for the semester. Hopefully, we will all be back in January. Anyhow, the net­works have loaded up on movies and Christmas specials in the coming weeks and after this week's programs are reviewed, I shall note the highlights up to the end of December since that is when my advance schedules end. 
The pilot film for the "Waltons" encores Friday night when the family finds the true meaning of Christmas in the Emmy award winning The Homecoming. Richard Thomas still plays John-Boy but Patricia Neal and Andrew Duggan have the original roles now assumed by Michael Learned and Ralph Waite as the parents. The plot this time does not concern a dis,ease, but there is the drama that made the weekly show somewhat a television phenomenon. The father is expected home on Chirstmas but ' roads are dangerous. Itis a daily occurance that one is hampered by roads tod~y but it is these little things of day-to-day living that 
are usually portrayed on "The Waltons" 
intelligently and compassionately. That is 
why the program is succE!sssful. 
Maneater is slated for the "ABC Suspense 
Movie" slot on Saturday. Appearing to be a 
take-off on the short story "The Most 
Danger Game" we have Richard Basehart 
as a hunter slightly off his nut letting loose a 
tiger against Ben Gazzara .and Sharee North 
on Basehart's preserve. Basehart has 
played madmen roles before and he is quite 
adept at it. So, if the plot doesn't call for it 
being overdone, this film could be decent 
escapist fare. 
the fathers of a bride and groom. Usually they perform with an eye on timing and comedy but the script bogs down the plot (Gleason is not too hot on the marriage) with unnecessary and not funny slapstick. It airs Saturday. Bloodsport, a made-for-TV film has Ben Johnson as a sports-on-the­brain father trying to push his highschool son into the college offering the most. Naturally the game is football but it's no Brian's Song. Tuesday's made-for-TV ABC film is A Summer Without Bqys. a variation of The Summer of 42. Barbara Bain plays a woman on the verge of losing her husband to a decaying marriage who falls for 4-f Michael Moriarity (Bang the Drum Slowly) in 1944. Catch here is, the daughter (Kay Lenz --"Lisa-Bright and Dark") also loves the boy. And tonight Yul Brynner and Britt Ekland star in The Double Man, about a CIA agent who investigates the murder of his son in Switzerland. If you can avoid the card­board performances and phoney backcrops, there is a pretty good plot with some neat twists hidden in it. Watch the game instead. The Steelers play the Dolphins at Miami at nine. 
Now for the specials. For daytime wat­. chers, ABC has five one hour dramas slated at 1:30pm this week for their "Matinee Playbreak" semi-regular series. On NBC Tuesday, the story of "Hans Brinker" will . be repeated and at ten tomorrow, ABC presents Alan King hosting Milton Berle, 1 George Burns, Godfrey Cambridge, Angie Dickinson (for what reason I don't know), · Nancy Dussault, Totie Fields, Don Knotts, . Steve Landesberg, Rich Little, Howard · Morris, Danny Thomas, and Renny Youngman in "The Many Faces of 

The rest of the films this week portend ·Comedy". "A Charlie Brown Christmas" little in the area of enjoyment. How to reruns Thursday at eight and Jason Commit Marriage has two veteran Robards, Jr., encores in "The House comedians, BobHope~nd Jackie Gleason, as Without a Christmas Tree" following at 8:30 on 22. This last special, although produced first, is a sequel to "The Thanksgiving Treasure" a few weeks ago. On the serious side, Thursday, "CBS Reports" probes corporations, which had been postponed earlier this season. And for the kiddies, ''Rudolph the Red'Nosed Reindeer" is re­telecast Friday on 22 at eight. 
The specials coming up in future weeks includ Bing Crosby and Bob Hope shows next Sunday on 16. An Andy Williams special premieres on the thirteenth and the "Hallmark Hall of Fame" unveils a new drama called "The Borrowers" on the fourteenthA: G. E. Theaterpresentation as yet unannounced will occupy the CBS Tuesday movie slot Dec. 18 and the Rockefellers are examined Dec. 28 on CBS. I do not have the listings for future ABC offerings since channel 28 has been having trouble with their mailing system. 
' There are a few good movies scheduled for the coming weeks (again, I wish Ihad the ABC schedules because their Sunday night films are usually worth the watching). IOn Monday Dec. 10, Key West premieres. Steve Boyd and Woody Strode star as a pair of Floridian private-eyes in a pilot that did not .sell for this season. NBC also unveils Hotel that following Saturday. Based on the ,Arthur Haily (Airport) novel, this movie has ithe usual mash of soapy plots and a !SUspenseful 1ending with · Rod Taylor, 'Catherine Spaak, Karl Malden, and Michael ·Rennie heading an all-star cast. December 17 premieres Once You Kiss a Stranger on iNBC, a sleeper you can kiss off. Advancing ; a week, also on NBC, one should not miss the tencore showing of My Sweet Charlie with Patty Duke and Al Freeman, Jr. on Crist­mas Eve. This excellent drama based on the Broadway play has pregnant unmarried bigoted Patty Duke living in a Louisiana house vacated by its owners during the 
winter. Enter black lawyer Freeman who is running from the law and the drama is set up. The film follows the development of their relationship until Christmas Eve when the outside world breaks in with devastating results due to the impending birth of Miss Duke's baby. For a made-for-TV film, it is far above the average fare and good viewing. 
And December 29 premieres Sweet Charity with Shirley MacClaine and Ricardo Montalban. This box office bomb concerns the trials and tribulations of the original happy hooker with some of the finest numbers being performed by a chorus of other women of the street. Its best song is "Hey, Big Spender", so I suggest you spend a little time with the film that Saturday on NBC. There will be a new version of The Miracle on 34th Street sometime over the holidays, probably on ABC, so I suggest watching for it. It will bring back the days when Macy's parades and Santa Claus had special and different meaning. 
Diverging a bit... I would like to congratulate the 1973 Notre Dame football team for their excellent season. I hope these remarks echo the sentiments of the rest of the senior class in thanking the team for adding a great deal to an already memorable year. Now dam the Tide and full speed ahead Dec. 31. 
Trivia Questions: Edmund Gwenn 
copped an Oscar for his performance of ~is 
Kringle in the original Miracle on 34th 
Street. John Payne and Maureen O'Hara 
also starred in that 1947 film. What well­
known actress tOday began ner movie 
career as Miss O'Hara's litUe girl )about 10 
years old at that tiqle)}p .that movie'! 
~;. 
'(J89.t\ .v.~~ :~~~~ P1J8 .88Wl8J.RD .tuaw> ·pooA\ !i\-~~:: :J~'~, --~~ ~~{:'' '··.;· 

r------~-------­
6 
the observer Monday. December 3. 1973 

Research meeting slated 
by David Kaminski Staff Reporter 
The Notre Dame branch of the Indiana Public Interest Research Group (InPIRG), will hold a reorganizational meeting for all interested students on Monday night, Dec. 3, at 6:30 p.m. in the Fiesta Lounge of LaFortune Student Center. 
The InPIRG meeting will feature Mr. Mark Riddle, director of In PIRG at Indiana University at Bloomington. Riddle will describe the InPIRG activities at I.U. and suggest ways that Notre Dame can reorganize their InPIRG branch, which started here in 1971. 
The Public Interest Research 
Group is a citizens' group organized through colleges and universities in many states. By means of students' funding and volunteer work, ·each state's PIRG hires a professional staff, in­cluding lawyers and engineers, who work on such problems as: air pollution, corporate responsibility, 
women's  rights,  consumer  price  
information,  and  land  use  plan­ 
ning.  

In the spring of 1972, 75 per cent of the Notre Dame student body signed a petition favoring a $2 fee for InPIRG activity to be attached 
ND gives over $44,000 to United Way campaign 
A total of $44,511.70 in gifts or about two percent more than the assigned goal of $43,780, was received from Notre Dame by the United Way campaign as of Nov. 7, the last day of the 1973 drive. 
The greatest share of campus gifts, totalling $27,951.00, came from 339 faculty members who gave an average gift of $82.45. Gifts varied widely in size with many donating twice to three times that "average gift." Par­ticipation in the drive also varied widely among the various categories of faculty. By colleges, the number of faculty and the per cent participation were: Engineering 77 per cent of 85, Business Administration 70 per cent of 46, Law 59 percent of 22, Science 51 per cent of 132, Arts and Letters 49 per cent of 254. In the non-college faculty, 18 percent of 
The next largest share of the total came from 144 administration members who contributed $8,167.24 for an average gift of $56.72. 92.3 per cent of the ad­ministration participated in the drive. A total of $6,460.91 came from 660 staff members who gave an average gift of $9.79 and their numbers represented 31.5 per cent of the total staff. $523.99 in special gifts was also received. All told 204 students contributed $1,159.61, for an average gift of $5.68. Student volunteers also raised an ad­ditional $248.95 for the United Way by selling shamrocks at the Michigan State and Southern California football games. 
As the late gifts come in, some rise of the per cent participation in the faculty and staff categories is expected, but the final figures probably will not be widely dif­
237 participated. ferent from those given above. 



Train tickets 
The Student Union has announcedthe following regulations regarding the sale and distribution of tickets for The Notre Dame Football Special. The Student Union sponsored$130 Sugar Bowl Train Trip package' goes on sale this evening at 7:00pm in the Fiesta Lounge of the Student Union. 
Sales are on a first come,first serve basis. 
This travel package is offered to Notre Dame and St. Mary's 
Students Only. 
A Student I. D. must be shown at the time of purchase. 
A $25.00 non refundable deposit is required for the pur­chase of each ticket (checks mah be made payable to the 
University of Notre Dame Student Government Fund.) The Balance of the purchase payment must be paid by Mon. Dec. 10 and may be made during the Student Union's regular Ticket Office hours. 
A maximum of 3tickets may be picked up by one student. So long as there is a student I. D. and deposit for every ticket being purchased. 
A limit of 100 places will be available Monday evening. However, there exists a possibility of additional places becoming available, dependent upon securing additional transportation and lodging. After the first 100 places are sold, those wishing ·to place theirnameson a waiting list may do so without deposit. In the event of places becoming available. those people will be allowed to purchase . The additional travel packages will be sold according to the order of the waiting list. 
This offering is sold only as a package including train tran­sportation and hotel accomodations. Train transportation cannot be purchased separate from the ...,rei reservations. 

MISSED OUT? 
The requirement for graduation from Notre Dame is one year of PE or ROTC. Now that many of you have sampled the physical education program you might consider Army ROTC this coming semester. You can catch up with your contemporaries already in ROTC and do not have any commitment to further military service during the next year and one hal1f. Look the program over. MS I classes are scheduled for 09 TT. 
If you desire further Information, stop by the Army ROTC offices on the Notre Dame cam1pus or call Captain Weimer at 283-6264. 
' 

to each student's. bilL The Notre Dame administration agreed to go through with this billing arrangement, but the funds were never collected. 
The InPIRG movement failed largely because of tht' Indiana University InPIRG's inability to secure a similar billing arrangement. I.U. was only allowed to eollect a voluntary $3 fee at registration time. 
Also, the use of the money was restricted to projects in the Bloomington community. Without the financial support for a statewide organization by In­diana's largest university, the InPIRG movement died in In­diana. 
However, since 1971, I.U. has used its InPIRG fllnds in Bloomington for such projects as fairness in tenant-landlord relationships and consumer price information. At the same time, InPIRG at I.U. has obtained a grant from a private foundation to help fund a statewide InPIRG organization. With the foundation money as a basis, Indiana University hopes to renew the InPIRG movement in Indiana. 
The Notre Dame branch of InPIRG has approximately $150 left from activities in 1971-72. At that time, InPIRG received funds from Notre Dame and St. Mary's student governments to finance a publicity drive to develop student interest in InPIRG. 
According to John B;:IChmann, one of Notre Dame's InPIRG organizers, students at Monday's meeting will discuss ways in which the various colleges and univer­sities in Indiana can organize a statewide InPIRG. Also, students will decide how InPIRG might go about restablishing the $2 fee on students' bills. 
"Notre Dame's administration was very cooperative in our efforts of two years ago," Bachmann said. "We have to go back and see if we can get started again. We may have to either run anotht·r student petition drive or hold H student referrendum to see if we can regain student support for InPIRG." 

NOTICE 
The Dec. 7 issue of The Observer . will be the last of the semester. 

The advertising deadline for this issue has been moved up to 5:00 p.m. Dec. 5 
The way to buy the insurance you need but may feel you can't afford. For furti-Jer information call: 233-3104. Talk to: John Counsell


JOHN COUNSELL 
Class of '64 
CLASS OF '64 


M0NY 
The Mutual Life Insurance Company Of New York MUTUAL OF NEW YORK 
Buy one­
Get one 



Free! 
Chromium dioxide 
A 19..98 VALVE F~,€. 


,J1"'.:~~~3 9
-...;.:_"\..c~'..t: . • .,~~-;~~:¥ 

MEMOREX Recording Tape
] Reproduction so true it can shatter glass. 
NOW AVAILABLE AT 

THE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
Shakespeare Film Series 
presents 

Franco Zefferelli's 






ROMEO & JULIET 
4pm

Monday, 
7pm


Dec. :3 
lOpm 

En!~ineering Auditorium .. Come ~arly • FREEl 
' I '
.' 


Irish ~open impressively, defeat Valparaiso 112-62 
by Peggy Lawlm· Digger Phelps' Irish got off to a good start Saturday afternoon, defeating Valparaiso University from Valparaiso, Indiana 112-62, before a capacity crowd of 11,343. For the first time in Phelps' career as Notre Dame's head coach, his team won the season opener. And that wasn't the only first the cagers earned on Saturday. They were also the first Irish team to score 100 points for Digger, and they won by the widest margin of victory in almost twenty years. But perhaps the most meaningful statistic for the Irish in looking ahead to the season is the fact that every member of the squad who dressed, scored. 
Freshman Adrian Dantley led the team scoring with 16 points, and was also tops in the reboun­ding category, with nine. Junior co-captain John Shumate tallied 15, while guards Gary Brokaw and Dwight Clay each had 14 points. Gary Novak, Irish co-captain and the fifth starter, had six points and six rebounds. But the scoring didn't stop with the starting team. 
In fact, almost half olf the 112 Irish points came from the reserves, as Phelps substituted freely. Freshman Bill Drew (10 points), Bill Paterno (8), Ray Martin (6), Toby Knight (4 points and 7 rebounds), and Dave Kusmicz (2) turned in !fine per­formances in their first college game. For the Irish veterans, Peter Crotty tallied five points, Roger Anderson and Greg Sch­melzer each scored four, and Chris Stevens and Myron Schuckman had two points apiece. 
"Phelps has no problems in depth," commented Vaipo coach Bill Purden. "I was impressed with Digger's style of sub­stitution." 
And substitute he did: no less than 27 times throughout tl1e game, compared with 10 substitutions made by Purden. "It was good to have our freshmen and everyone playing, " said Phelps. "They had confidence to play as a team. I was proud of our guys today." 
Of the opposition, Phelps was complimentary. "Valpo has good potential. They went to the finals of the NCAA regionals last season, and I'm sure they'll ·bounce back later on in the season. They were tired after Friday night's game." 

Get one Free! 

.J/5. b5
'ji 
. . . ~•.• ~ • .~-.~Att . 

Guard Dwight Clay was just one of fifteen Irish players making his way into the scoring column in Saturday afternoon's contest against Valpo. 
For the Crusaders, guard John Semmelhack was the high point man, with 17, and Jeff Holmes and Mark Kassner each tallied 13. 
"We had hoped to make a better showing, but the full court man-to­man pressure was too hard to stop," explained Purden. "We tried to set up plays, but they just didn't work." 
Accuracy seemed to be a problem for Valpo, as only Sem­melhack and Kassner shot over the .500 mark, for the team percentage of just .319. The Irish, on the other hand, shot an excellent .563 from the floor, including .500 or better. performances from ten players. 
The Irish were never in trouble, as they went ahead 9-4 in the early ~1inutes of the game, and con­tmued to add to their lead throughout the first half, making the halftime score 55-33. The. second half was much the same; it was only a matter of how large the Irish margin would be. 
ItfEMORE~ 90 ...
Buy tWQ-\=ro~Free! ·~f 


'lllli~~~u 
i!ml[A';): 
____..,......., __ _
an-I__....... ljiO-.tf 
ll!loi>"-~n=---­
MEMOREX 90 

c:~o,_;., ..-u.o~~& 
oo.­
·-·-~--­
~,i.>~M-E_M_ORE--Xt-0~ 

rrmn 201 
...:.\>ffi J.l'•.: -. ~ ~ ::::::::.=----= 
\-\.:!~" ~ 
y ME:MOREX RecortllngTape
.L
~>duction so true it can shatter glass. 
NOW AVAILABLE AT 
!1 
•jl 

THE HAMMES I'IOTRE DAME. BOOK STORE 
The Irish, now 1-o, will attempt to add to their m;.mber of wins in the three games facing them this week. They travel to Ohio State on Monday, and to Northwestern on Thursday before returning home next Saturday to meet the St. Louis Billikens. 
leers split with Denver 
Due ·to space limitations in today's edition, The Observer was unable to print the series story on Notre Dame­Denver. It will appear, instead, in tomorrow's paper. 
The Irish and Pioneers split the series, Denver winning 6-4 Friday night and the Irish taking an overtime victory, 4-3, yesterday afternoon. 
Observer Christmas Party· 
for All Observer 
People 

De(:. 7 8:00 pm Holy Cross Halfway House 
See editors or dept. 
heads for tickets and 
more information. 
We want· everyone there 

the observer 
RESERVATIONS 284-4176 Bus. Hrs. 283-7054 Show Nites 
Student -Faculty 
ND-5MC Staff

SMC 


THEATRE $150 
SEASON 1973-74 
Thi?ves' Carnival 
Jean Anouilh's merry masquerade Dec. 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 at 8:30p.m. Washington Hall (Notre Dame) 

DERSHEM MOTORS 
special

********************** 
~ We now offer a 12 month guarantee Jt 1 gn aII \Cars. lf­
*~•****~~~*•**~******
Located across from Louie's Ph. 145 Avai . 

~-{~



~0~~~ ~~~ 
~~0~ 
(/.~ VISIT CHR MASTER STYLISTS 
Expert hair care for men 

For a short time only, $1 off on any complete styling job 
CHR MASTER STYLISTS 
Ca II 255-8600 TOWN & COUNTRY MINIMALL~tor appointment 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
FOR SALE 
MEERSCHAUM PIPES! Exceptional values, per­sonalixed service. Catalog. PMP Co. Box 444 Gaither­sbury , Md. 20760. 
Stereo turntable, 8-tra ck, speakers, receiver. Use d 1 semester. 1067. 
10-speed bike for sale. Cheap. As king $50. John 8549. 
Imported Mercury watches 1­17 jewels, 3 styles, perpetual calendar, guarented. $1 3.50­$15. Call Frank 31W. 
FOR RENT 
4 B R house, recreation room, study, fireplace, wall to wall car pet, just rennovate d. Completely flrnished. For grad students only. Jan. semester or immediate oc­cupation. AI Brasseur 289-2 461. 
Rooms $40 month. Ride. 233­1329. 
1 B Rapt. near NO. Fumis heel nickely. Rate quite rea9:l nable. Call after 6; Mrs. Kennelly 233-4487. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost girl's silver ring initials KMG. Reward. Call Bob 1201. 
Lost Class ·ring '751t. blue, name"Mike Deiner" insld e . Reward. No questions asked. 1470. 
PERSONALS 
Dear Bigot, Happy belated Birthday. May 
you life.  I ead  a  long  and colo rful  
Sophie  

Happy Birthday Shayla. All roads lead to Rome. Pia nes too! Miss my Bobbsey twin. Ginny. 
NOTICES 
students from New Mexico and the SJ uthwest: Let's help each other get home for Xmas. If you h ave room in your car , or need a ride call 7833 leave name, number, and date you can I eave. 
1\fQ rrissey Loan Fund can I oan 
up I o$150 at 1 per cent interest, 
1 day wainting period. 
Basement of LaFortune 11 :15­
12:15 Nlon-Frl. 
OVERSEAS JOBS 
Australlla, ·Europe, s. 
Am erlca, Africa. Students all pro fl sslons and occupations 700 to 13000 . Expenses pa id , overtime, sightseeing, .Free 
information. Write TRANS 
WORLD RESEARCH, DE PT. 
F3, PO Bpx 603, Corte Mad era, 
Ca. 94925. 
SP EB QUA-Ever hear of it? The South BE11d Barbers hop Chorus inv!tes you to become a par I of the largest sin g ing organization in the country. Nlo ndays 8 pm Cathedral of ST. 
James bsement. 117 N. 
LaFayette. For info call LLoyd 
7733. 
EUROPEAN STUDY TOUR: EngIa nd, Scotlil"'d, Wales, and Ireland. Dec. 27-Jan 15. 2-3 Co II ege credits. $679 from NY­NY. Tuesday Dec. 4 dead line for enrollment. Call Prof. A.r. Black St. Mary's 284-4948. 
WANTED 
JoHockey Shinguards + helmet. Call .be 1416. 
Need ride to South ern Louisiana for Xmas. call Rick 233394S. 
the observer Monday, December 3, 1973 

'73.1rish: 10-0and one to go 
by Vic Dorr and with the same flourishes-that was in possession of the first 
Sports Editor marked last Saturday's regular perfect season of his 10-year 
season finale. career at ND, and was also in 
MIAMI-It ended as it began, In between that first game, and possession of Notre Dame's first with a 44-0 victory over a puzzling, the satisfying showdown against perfect campaign since W49. potentially dangerous opponent. Miami, came eight other outings But for Parseghian, the coach 
Just under three months ago, and eight other victories, and when who has come so close so often the Notre Dame's Fighting Irish the lights of Miami's massive game had an added signlfica~ce. opened their '73 season at home Orange Bowl stadium had finally For, offered Ara, the season not against Northwestern, and they been extinguished last Saturday only ended as it began, it ended won that game by the same score-night, Irish coach Ara Parseghian .where it began. 
Greg Corgan ~=====================================================:===================:=:=:=:=:=:===:===:=:= m:·~~~ba!lyt~is h~oo~~~~· ~~~t;:: 
started right here in this locker 
room eleven months ago to the
Extra Points day. The making of this football 
team started here, after we were 
beaten so badly by Nebraska in the 
Orange Bowl. 
MIAMI-No one wanted it more. And no one deserved it quite so much "But this team," he continued, as Ara Parseghian. "turned out to be one of the best 
For the first time since 1949, but most importantly for the first time in I've ever coached. It's a younghis 10 year career in South Bend, Notre Dame has completed an un­team, a good team, and a team defeated, untied regular season. with plenty of desire and deter­
And while a lot of people deserve a lot of credit, the 44-0 victory over mination. Everyone on this team Miami Saturday night in the Oramge Bowl was particularly sweet for dedicated themselves to makingAra. Three times before he had been on the verge of such a feat entering amends for that Orange Bowl the last game of the season, and three times before he had suffered that game, and I think, now, that we've heartbreaking defeat. But on this occasion it was different, and done it." satisfyingly so since almost a year before, the Orange Bowl had been the But against Miami's Hurricanes, site of Ara Parseghian's most humiliating performance-a 40-6 loss to 1973's wholesale dealers in upsets 
Nebraska. He promised he would be back, and he'd show people how and near upsets, Parseghian 's Wayne Bullock scores his second touchdown of the night as the Irish got
Notre Dame could play football. He wanted to show them so badly. "Last Irish played as if they were at­their tenth win of the wear-without a loss. C Photo by Joe Raymond).year, it was disaster," said the head coach. "I said the next day (after tempting to atone for every one of receiver PeteDemmerlewith 3:45 and linebackers Greg Collins and the Orange Bowl) that we'd come back and show these people we can play the setbacks suffered by the Irish gone in the quarter, and Thomas Gary Potempa, harrassed Miami's 
football. And eleven months to the day, we came back, and hell if we coach during his 10-year career at lofted a 47-yard field goal midway quarterbacks all night long. And didn't show 'em." South Bend. through the period to give the Irish when Hurricane passes weren't 
Coach Parseghian is an impressive man. He's in a class all by himself. The Irish ,offense piled up 44 a 24-0 lead held at halftime. being pounded into the Poly-Turf You can have your Bob Devaney, and Bear Bryant, or even your Knute points, 574 total yards, and 28 first Irish loyalists. may have been surface, 'Cane defenders were. Rockne-and Frank Leahy, but before his career is over Ara Parseghian downs, and the defensive platoon worried about the sort of second Notre Dame rushed for 448 yardscould certainly become the most legendary coach in college football. registered its third shoutout in ten half letdown which had plagued as the relentless ground attack and 
He possesses a magnetism which is virtually indescribable but which games, surrendered only 8 first Notre Dame on other occasions savage defense prompted Miami is felt by all those who have ever been connected wHh him. He com­downs and 168 total yards, and during the past two years. But if coach Elliot to note, when it was all mands, and he gets, respect not only from his players, but from the press, forced six Miami turnovers. they were, they fretted needlessly, over, that "they beat us to death his fellow coaches, co-workers and all those whose lives he touches. "Going into this game," beamed because ND's number one offense quite badly, and are one of the 
He's a dedicated coach. Ara started this season on January 2. His goal Parseghian, "we were genuinely punctuated its devastating first great teams in the country. was then and is now to complete a perfect season and win a national concerned with Miami. They half by accepting the second half "But I would not like to rate the championship. With one game to go that goal is within reach. If Ara is to played exceptionally well against kickoff and driving 80 yards for a teams we have played this year.accomplish such a feat, no one will be able to say he didn't work hard for good competition, and we •expected game-<:linching touchdown. Alabama and Notre Dame will it. He is a meticulous organizer and has every detail planned in advance. a traditional Notre Dame-Miami have to decide that for them­
"The team recognized the im-selves."
Practices are timed to the minute, and no one even!knows how many game. 
portance of this game all along," And that decision will have tohours Pa.rseghian spends watching films. He starts his day at 5:30 in the "I'd have to say," he continued, said Ara. "We had no trouble
morning and doesn't quit until long after film sessions at night. This "that l was very surprised by the come in one month, when the Irish 
getting them up. We respected meet the Crimson Tide in a Sugar
year, he worked even harder because he felt he had a lot to prove. So far, outcome of this game. But we it's paid off because Ara has 1973 goal number one--an undefeated-untied made it, we're 10-0 now and I'm Miami and were aware of the Bowl battle of unbeatens. Nor was 
elusive goal of 10-0." 
season. just delighted." But for all the talk about Miami's that fact lost on anyone in the 
In the lockerrroom Saturday night after the game Ara was like a little Parseghian's Irish "made it" to victorious Irish locker room.
potential potential "The feels right
kid. It was heartening to see such a magnificient personality caught up in their tenth victory of the regular and a Irish season good 
letdown, the Irish coach admitted now," said Irish QB Clements,such child-like joy. All season long, especially after the win over season on their first possession of there were other things on his mind 
Southern Cal, you could see him anticipating, cautiously, approaching the warm, sultry evening. at halftime. "but it's not over yet. We still have each game week by week, but waiting for 10-0-0. Finally he got it. After forcing coach Pete Elliot's one left."
"Sure," he said, "I was thinking
As he toyed with the Miami game ball, and as the reporters gathered 'Canes to punt after three offensive "Winning this one really feels
about last year in the Orange Bowl,
about him,he remarked, :"This is the fourth time we've been in this downs, the Irish took over on their good," echoed defensive end Jim
and I was thinking about 1964 and
position and three times before it had escaped us. This time it didn't. own eighteen and moved to a Stock, "but as far as I'm con­
1970 against USC. And now that it's 
We're delighted." touchdown in eleven plays. cerned, the season isn't really over
over," he continued, "I would have
He kept spinning the ball around in his hands and added, "This ball has Art Best's 40-yardgallopfrom the with."
to say that this-having made it to
special significance because it's going to say 10-0. It's been an elusive ND 27 to the Miami 3:1 set up But it was left to senior punter
10-0-is my biggest thrill."
goal, but we've finally got it. I would have to say it was my biggest thrill. Wayne BullO<:k for a 2-ya rd touch­.. Brian Doherty, a specialist who
Two additional second half
Last season was very disappointing, but this year we had USC at home down plunge, and Bob Thomas performed only once during the
touchdowns-a seven yard pass
and we wound up a 10-0 season appropriately enough right here in the converted with 8:27 left in the evening, to sum up the final two
from Clements to Demmerle and a
Orange Bowl eleven months to the day after our loss to Nebraska." period for the only seven points the games of Notre Dame's 1973
six yard end sweep by reserve QB
And then, like he had almost forgotten ihe quickly interjected, "But we Irish were to need. football season. He did it ac­
Cliff Brown~nded the scoring,
do have one very important game left." But they weren't the only points curately.
and twenty sterling minutes by
Ara is also not one to take credit for himself. Whenever he speaks, he the Irish were to score. "How does it feel?" he said. "It
ND's number one defense assured 
says "we" and he's quick to point out that it's a team effort. Bullock rumbled one yard over feels like the end of four long,
the shut out.
"This! is one of the best teams we've ever had," be added. "There's right tackle with 1:55 gone iri the waiting years. It feels like the top a great deal of enthusiasm, and outstanding leadership from our second period, Clements pitched a A brutal Irish pass rush led by ,of the world ...And only one thing seniors." 21-yard scoring pass to wide ends Ross Browner and Jim Stock, could possibly beat this-11-0." 
While Coach Parseghian may be reluctant to take the praise, the 
members of his "team" are always ready to give him the credit. 
"I feel terrific for him," offered defensive line coach Joe Yonto. "This is his tenth season here, and he's 10-0. It¢ouldn't happen to a better guy. He's just tremendous to work for." 
Then coach Yonto touched on the point which Ara had stressed among his team captains since those first few weeks in August-that of leader­ship. "It all starts with the leader," added Yonto as he pointed to Ara busily answering questions. "There's a Notre Dame guy if I ever saw one." 
"There are no words to describe his feeling of complete joy," said receiver coach Mike Stock. "He's been so close so many times before. If anybody could have seen his picture of anguish on the sidelines after that final season loss in 1964, orrealized~e humility he suffered after last year's Orange Bowl, they'd feel nothing but happiness for him now." 
Sometimes it's those who play under him who can say it the best. 'I've never had more respect for a guy," offered kicker Bob Thomas. "After last year's Orange Bowl we were all crushed, and he, more than anyone else, had to live through that. But all along he said we'd be back, and we certainly are." 
'He has a tremendous mind," added co-<:aptain Frank Pomarico, he's a 
tremendous judge of character and the most impressive man I've seen in 
a while." 
"He's so great that if you're down and out, he keeps you going," said 
defensive co-<:aptain and All-American Mike Townsend. "I feel the best 
for him because helis the best." 
Linebacker coach George Kelly may have added just a little bit more to 
that when he said, "He's the world's greatest coach." 




Perhaps one day when the Era of Ara js over no OF will argue with 

"I said the next day that we'd come back and show these people we can play football. And eleven
Coach Kelly. 

months to the day we c11me back, and hell if we didn't show 'em." (Photo by Joe Raymond). 






