On The Inside 
Dr. and Mrs. Willke on abortion ... page 3 Nixon clamps down on meat prices ... page 3 



serving the notre dome -st. mary's community 
Friday, March 30, 1973 
l 
I I ! 


Co:mmittee to combine proposals 
HPC: CoiDproiDise 

by Jim Eder Staff Reporter 

The Hall Presidents Council last night formed its own five-member committee to write a new student government constitution. 
After three and a half hours of debate the presidents decided not to endorse any of the proposed con­stitutions--Constitution "A" (submitted by the original committee), Constitution "B" (submitted Tuesday by Jim Clarke), And a new Constitution "C", submitted at last night's meeting by Kevin Griffin and Pat McLaughlin. 
The new committee, consisting of Sue Anderson, Kevin Griffin, Pat McLaughlin, Bill Reinke and Paul Tobin, will attempt to write a compromise constitution based on the best points of constitutions "A", "B" and "C". This new document wil1 be presented at next Tuesday's HPC meeting, where it wi11 be reviewed and revised. If it is then endorsed by the presidents, it will be taken back to individual hal1 councils for ratification. 
The first .question discussed by the hall presidents was whether a new constitution should be written at all. Mike Cunningham, president of Dillon, proposed 
that  the  HPC retain  its present  state  and  not  be  
incorporated into student government.  
"The  hall  presidents  know  well  enough  how  to  

allocate money to the halls, but we don't know enough a bout all the other organizations that will be requesting funds." reasoned Cunninghgham. 
"We should be primarily concerned with our own halls, not the entire campus," he continued. "Let the student government worry about distributing that $80,000." 
Sue Anderson, one of the four Walsh HaU executive board members, argued that the HPC would be powerless if it could ·not gain control of the budget. "We could have to beg again for money for our halls." 
By a narrow, 10-9, margin the hal1 presidents rejected Cunningham's proposal and decided to review Constitutions "A" and "B". 
H-man <Dennis Etienne) explained that Constitutior. "A.. provides the Forum with legislative powers only in budgetary matters, because "the committeee tha.t wrote it felt that the hall presidents should not ge;t involved in politics." 
Clarke argued thatConstitutic;m "A" would create a rivalry between the student body president and the other members of the Forum. "Constitution "B", however, doesn't allow for any rivalry between the executive and legislative branches. The Forum as a whole would serve as both, with its apppointed chairman as spokesman and an eJected executive coordinator to handle student services." 
Clarke also warned that under Constitution "A" the student body president is not required to express the consensual opinion of the entire Forum. H-man, however. contended that the Forum could easily check the power of the president by establishing restrictive by-laws. 
He also argued that the position of executive coor­dinator provided for by Constitution "B" would attract few candidates. 
"The man elected as executive coordinator will do most of the work, while the chairman appointed by the members of the Forum will be doing an the talking and getting all the recongnition," he reasoned. "I doubt if . many people will want to hold a position like that, and 
I don't blame them." 
Finally he pointed out that under Constitution "B", because the chairman cannot act independently of the rest of the Forum, the process of decision-making would be much slower. 
"For example," he explained, "Steve Jeselnick came to me today with an emergency request for an additional $100 for An Tostal. Under Clarke's con­stitution he would have had to wait a whole week until the Forum met again." 
Jeselnick himself countered H-man's argument by pointing out that although the process was quicker in this particular case, if his request had been rejected he would have had no other recourse. "As it is now, one man has complete control over emergency funds, whereas under Constitution "B" the decision would be made by 26 people." 
In the midst of the debate between advocates of Constitution "A" and those of Constitution ..B", Griffin and McLaughlin introduced what they termed "a l'Om promise constitution" --Constitution "C". 
This new constitution proposes to give the Forum l(.'gislative powers on all matters "when it deems ll(.'Cessary." It al~o provides for a Student Association Chairman and a Student Association Administrative Director. elected by the, student body on separate ballots. 
The Student Association Chairman would: (1) serve as l'hief executive officer and official spokesman for the Student Association Forum: (2) serve as chairman The Hall Presidents Council discusses pros and cons of three constitutiona I proposaIs during last nighfls meeting (StatI photo by Jim Hunt> 
of all meetings of the Forum; (3) appoint the Judicial Board, representatives to university-wide commit~, and committtees of the Forum; (4) appoint a comp­troller to manage the finances of the Student Association, with the approval of two-thirds of the Forum members. 
The Student Association Administrative Director would: <1) serve as the chief administrative officer of the Student Association ..and (2) appoint administrative assistants and other persons necessary for the efficient operation of student services. 
Clarke agreed to concede to this new constitution. "Even though I do not agree with its ideology com­pletely, I feel that it is a fair compromise between my 
. proposals and Constitution "A' ." 
Others, however, were not as wil1ing to accept the new document. Arguments were raised once more about whether any campus-wide elections should be held at all. The presidents were also in disagreement over whether or not representatives from the Academic Commission should be seated on the Forum (Constitution "C" does not provide such seats). 
Student Body Treasurer Mike Marget, an advocate of Constitution "A", accused Clarke of conspiring with Griffin and McLaughlin to come up with a third con­stitution that "appears to be a compromise but is really much closer to Constitution ''B'' than to ours." 
H-man decided to let the HPC settle the problem of devidsing a new constitution by itself. "Decide what you want, I'm tired of all of this," he said, leaving the meeting. 
Baranowski finally decided to adjorn the meeting, postponing the debates until the new HPC con­stitutional committee comes up with its proposals next week. 
"Every possible student interest was voiced tonight, and that might have been the problem," he com­mented. "It is impossible to write a constitution that ('aters to every interest." 
IIIIIIIRIIIIIIIIIRRIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII•rn 1111111 
The following is a statement released by "a group of concerned students" at 
10:00 last niaht. 

AI ter the debacle of the last student body presidential C'lection, which was fought with rancid politics, "martial law" was declared on March 3, by the present student body ad· ministre~tion. A group of five people, seemingly unrepresen­tative of the student body, was then set up to prepare a new constitution. During the short period of spring break, a "v,lgue" constitution was prepared. The next event was that members of the original constitutional committee proceeded to ,,uthor several new constitutional proposals. The ensuing effects hnve been that the student body has been subjected to a continuing series of political manipulations, has been left confused by the proceedings, and is in the serious danger of obtaining a student government that is not representative of the students. We therefore are asking that the SLC step in to md this le~rce and formulate the rules for a constitutional convention, representative of all Students in order that a viable '>tudent government may be obtained at Notre Dame_ 
Any person interested in signing the following petition please cont,lct one of the undersigned. 
In light of the current constitutional "crisis", we the un. dersiqned feel that the only means to a viable constitution is the calling of <1 constitutional convention representative of the '>tudC'nt body ,,t large. We therefore request that the SLC hold ,,n enlf'rgency meeting to set up regulations and mechanisms tor such ,, fully representative convention and that this con­vention commence at the earliest possible date. 
T. J. Clinton AI Cramer Paul De Chant Rick Gering 
Marty Gibbons Matthew Kubik Juan Manigault 
Gordon Mason Don Nollet Roger Paul Ed Rahill Glenn Sorge . Andv Winiarczyk Alice Wojcieszek .Blake Wordal 

UIIIIIIDIIIIIHIIIIMIUUIWIIIIUIIIIIIIIIII_________ 
Literary Festival tabs great talent 
by Jim Gresser Staff Reporter 

"This year's Sophomore Literary Festival will prove to be one of the finest since the Festival's inception," ac­cording to Festival Chairman Frank Barrett. Beginning this Sunday, April 1 the Festival will run through Satur­day April 6. 
John Asbery, Gwendolyn Brooks, Stanley Elkin, Arthur. Miller, Chaim Potok, Kenneth Rexprth and Jerome 
Rothenberg will be the writers participating in the 1973 Festival and will be on campus giving lectures, readings, and symposiums throughout the week. All events are free and students are urged attend as many of the activities as possible. 
One of the aspects that makes the Notre Dame Sophomore Literary Festival so distinct from aU other college literary festivals is that the writers will also be visiting some classes to discuss their work with the students. 

Barret notes that tht Brooks Sophomore Literary Festival "has assembled some of the most renowned artists in the fields of fiction, drama, poetry and tran­slation." 
Dedication 

The members of the Sophomore Literary Festival Council have chosen to dedicate this year's Festival to those writers around the world who are suffering from political oppression. The dedication states, "Our com­
mittee is dedicating the Festival to all literary artists every where who are victims of political oppression beea use of their beliefs. The great number of poets, novelists and journalists imprisoned because they risked expressing their convictions in literary form is a repugnant effrontery to 
\humanity." 

In the forward to the Festival program, Barrett writes, "Keep in mind that this is a two-way program. Our guests come not as speakers in a lecture series, but as participants in . a 
festival. This is an opportunity for interaction between students, faculty, and literary figures." 
The dedication goes on to say. "We hope too that the boldness of those condemned to punishment because they did not fear to speak out will enhearten the timerous or intimidated among us. Whatever be the ideas conveyed by literary artists and the ideas prescribed regimes of every hue, what we must strive to emulate is the courue and dedication of writers to assert their freedom." 
(iwt>ndolyn Brooks 
The writer who will open the festival is the Pulitzer Pt·ize winning poetess, Gw{'ndolyn Brooks. Brooks will read from her poetry on Sunday at 4:00 pm in the Library Auditorium. At 8:00 pm that evening, she will conduct a seminar on poetry in the Library Lounge. 
Gwendolyn Brooks is without question one of the lwst poets in contemporary lit<'rature. As a black poet, h<'r insights into the modern black man are deep and provacative. As a woman h{'r warmth and feeling touch all her readers. With all her attributes combined. the poetic experience she provides is on£' of the most exciting. · 
Fktion writer Stanley Elkin will continue the Festival with a reading from hi~ w<;>rk at 8:00pm on Monday, April 2 in the Library Madttonum. 
Most of his fiction deals with characters who try to l'stablish some sort of meaning and order in their lives but nwet with a great deal of frustration. The plots often deal with v£'ry funny people doing some very bizarre things hut und(.'r that. Elkin makes some very serious statements. 
Non•list Dr. Chaim Potok. thou~h he wilJ be speaking lat£'r in tht• W£'ek. will be autographmg books at Pandora's Book Store from 3::10 until 4:30pm on 1\londay afternoon . Pandora's has arranged to sl'll all his books at cost while ht• is in thl' store autographing. 



.. warld 
briefs 

(c) 1973 New York Times 
Saigon-With a minimum of emotion and little joy, the last American troops left South Vietnam Thursday, leaving behind an unfinished war. As the colors were furled, ending close to a decade of American intervention, Gen. Frederick C. Weyand told a handful of servicemen at the ceremon,Y in Saigon, "You can hold your heads up high for having been a part of ths selfless effort." 
Hanoi, North Vietnam-As thousands of joyful North Vietnamese lined the streets of Hanoi, a motorcade carried the North's last 67 American prisoners to Gia Lam airport for their return to the United States. The men, all of whom were captured since last June, included crews shot down during the final American bombing raids in December. 
Washington--James W. McCord Jr., testifying under oath, told a Senate committee that his fellow Watergate conspirators had cleared their political espionage activity with ranking Nixon administration officials before carrying out the plot. McCord described former At­torney General John N. Mitchell as the "over-all boss" of the operation and said President Nixon's chief legal advisor, John W. Dean 3D, sat in on one planning session. 
Pittsburgh--Steelworkers approved an agreement that ..ould eliminate strikes and crisis bargaining. The agreement between the United Steelworkers of America and the steel industry, calls for talks to begin seven months before the end of their three-year contract, with unresolved issues to be submitted to binding arbitration. 
Washington-The Securities and Exchange Commission issued a sweeping master plan that would replace the present fragmented structure of the securities industry with a common regulatory framework based on electronix communication between brokers and market centers. The suggestions were outlined in a "white paper" intended to provide guidelines for unifying all segments of the industry through a comprehensive communication system. 
an Cllmpu• taday 
friday 
10 a.m.-6 p.m.--action, recrul ers, library concourse 
4:30 p.m.--lecture, "•he' evolu ion of life," dr. manfred eigen, 123 nieuwland 
7:30 p.m.--lenten communion services, (melki e-byzan ine ri e) holy cross hall 8 p.m.--movie, growing up female, library 
auditorium 9 p.m.--concert, nd jazz band, laf rtune 
sa urday 
10 a.m.--lecture, mar ha griffl h, library auditorium 7 & 10 p.m.--movie, airpor, engineering auditorium 
8 p.m.--concert, beach boys, ace 
8 p.m.--theatre, el hea ,re campesino (farmworkers' hea re), washington hall 
sunday 
8:'30 a.m.--mass, knu.e rockne memoriar mass and breakfas , stanf rd-keenan chapel-south dining hall 
7:30 p.m.--dramatic reading, he jus. assassins by alber camus, grace pit, free admission and refreshmen s 
Chicano repertpry theatre 

reflects farmworkers life 
El Theatre members come
by Mike Kulcycki 
directly from hhe vegetable fields
Staff Reporter 
and fruit orchards with different degrees of education. They areEl Teatro Campesino <· primarily involved in the workers' 
Farmworkers' Theatre), ap­
struggle to wage a strike <Huelga)pearing at Washington Hall win better living conditions, andtomorrow evell'ing, Mar~h 31, is an form the United Farmworkers U­important force in "people's 
nion.

theatre," aimed at restoring a Unique actos sense of pride in the chicano 
history, culture, and race. Luis Valdez, a graduate of San ·An acting repertory company Jose State who also worked with founded in 1965 by Luis Valdez, El continued on page 6 
Teatro Campesino belongs to the 
agit-prop theatre tradition in whi­
The_ uosener is published daily dunn~ the college semester except
ch social agitation an4 
vacat1ons by the students of the
progagandizing are seen as 
Univ~rsity of J,.,otre Dame and Sf.
legitimate ends of any art form. 
Mary s College. Subscriptions mily be purchased for $8 per sen'\ester {$14 per year) from The
Examples of agit-prop groups are 
"living theatres" and "guerrilla 
Obs_erver Box Q, Notre Dame,
theatres," drama derived from the 
lnd1ana 46556. Second class 
postage paid, Notre Dame lnd
"peoples theatre" of the 
~~~ I •
Depression. 
WRBR Presents: an all English Concert 



Wishbone Ash 


"the best boogie band in the land'' 
and 

Vinegar Joe 

Saturday April 7th 8pm at the Morris Civic Aud. 
'4'0 adv., '5°0 at door 

Tickets Available at the Auditorium Box Office noon to 5 pm daily, at The Crypt Records and at Pandora's Book Store 
A North American Produdion 

r-----~----~------------------------~-------­
HOWARE THINGS AT HOME? 



.<i I 
Long distance still is the next best thing to being there. And you can save money by calling nights or weekends. 





Indiana Bell 


Friday, March 30, 1973 the observer 
Willkes dispute liberalized 'right to kill' 

by Marlene Zloza St-nior Reporter 
Trying to answer the question "Is the being inside the woman a human life?" Dr. and Mrs. Jack Willke lectured to an attentive and shocked crowd of nine-hundred last night in Washington Hall. Speaking on a strict anti-abortion platform. the couple presented an in-dPpth program of slides, quotes and a film to reinforce their position. 
"Some people ask whether it is safer for the mother to have an abortion or to have the baby, but that doesn't matter," said Dr. Willke. "if there is a baby inside the mother we have no right to kill it." "That puts it squarely on the line," added Mrs. Willke. 
Dr. Willke stressed that "the word kill is not a judgemental choice, but an accurate descrip­tion," regarding abortions. 
"By any biologic dimension, what a mother carries is alive-­that is fact," said Dr. Willke, "and if it is human life then we are killing a human." 


More visitation hours 
for men are sought 
by Pattie Cooney Staff Heporter 
A recommendation for extended 

male visitation hours at all St. 
Mary's residence halls will be 
presented to the Planning Com­
mittee this afternoon by Kathleen 
Mulaney, Dean of Students and 
Chairman of the Area Committee 
on Student Life. 
The recommendation asks for an 

(.'Xtension of the visitation hours to 
include 7 p.m. to midnight on 
Fridays, noon to midnight on ·Saturdays, and 1 p.m. to 10 p.m. on Sundays. Presently the visitation hours cover Sundays from 1 p.m. to 5 
p.m .. Male visitors must sign in at 1he front desk and be escorted upstairs by the person they are \'isiting. 
Work on the recommendation 

started in September when a task 
force on hall life and activities 
began the preliminary plannning 
and research to draft question­
naires. 
Questionnaires were sent to 

students. parents, alumnae , 
;1dministrators, and staff asking 
for opinions and the present 
\'isitation policy and suggestions 
for the future. 
At the same time the 

questionnaires were sent out, the 
task force wrote to 130 colleges to 
obtain information on their 
\'isitation policies. 
0\'er :~.000 constituents r<>sponded to the questionnaires. ··nw surveys showed quite a diversity of opinions; we in­terpreted the questionnaires as lwst we could. arriving at the \H'PkPnd hours." commented Sue \\'l'ite. SBP and vice-chairman of the Area Committee on Student Life. 
Student respondents did not t>xprPss great desire to have an~~thing more inclusive such as ,·isitation hours during the week. HPasons for not having them during the week included in­fringemmt on privacy and study. 
Students also expressed concern over security. Therefore a security system similar to the one used on Sundays will probably be used. 
"WC' feel that as young adults we are able to handle these situations and should do so before graduating. Extended hours would provide a more natural at­mosphere and be an exercise of freedom within certain guidelines," said Helen Ann Bathon. chairman of the Task Force on Hall Life and Activities. 
If the recommendation passes the Planning Committee, it will go to President Henry to be included in his report to the Board of Hegents. A sub-committee on Student Life of the Board of Regents will consider the report at its April meeting. The recom­mendation will then be presented to the whole Board of Regents in May. If approved the extended visitation policy could be im­plemented beginning in sep­tember. 
White Sox Opening Day Trip 
Tuesday, April J0 Sox vs. Oakland A's 
FOR INFORMATION AND RESERVATIONS CALL OR SEE: 
Leo Breen 3651 418 MORRISSEY 
Mike Lins 3648 415 MORRISSEY 
SEATS GOING fAST--ACT NOW 
"The scale in some cases must be balanced between the mother and her social problem and the human that is killed," explained Or. Willke. "If we decide in favor of the mother then we have given one citizen the right to kill another just to solve her problem." 
Sharing the microphone during the entire presentation, Dr. Willke and his wife, a registered nurse, began by admitting that their program was entirely one-sided. 
"We make no apologies," asserted Mrs. Willke, "for years vou have heard the other side, the inother's problems, and we don't think any pro-abortion speaker could tell you anything new. Much of what we will present is new information that even some doc­tors aren't yet aware of and we are asking you to make a valid and educated decision." 
While displaying slides of premature babies and aborted fetuses. the Willkes, authors and veteran lecturers, refuted the "viability" argument for abortion before 28 weeks of pregnancy. 
"Some people try to draw a line in time before the fetus reaches humanity, but since states and eountries have not been able to agree. no one can claim accuracy in their judgement," stated the Willkes. 
In the mid-1940's viability 
Nixon imposes price ceiling on meat products 
((') Hli:~ New York Times 
Washington--President Nixon announced tonight in a nationally televised speech that the govern­ment was imposing ceiling prices 
'on beef, pork and lamb--but not live cattle and hogs--effective immediately and for an indefinite period. Treasury Secretary George P. Shultz. explained at a White House briefing that ceiling prices for the \'arious cuts of meats would be by individual processors, wholesalers and retailers would have to be calculated on the basis of their prices during the 30 days through March 28. Arguing that the struggle against inflation included his' budgetary battles with the D<>mocratic Congress, the President asked the public to support his vetoes of spending bills. A vote to override veteoes and spend more than the $268 billion Presidential budget is a vote for "higher taxes or prices," Nixon argued. 
reached to 30 weeks and now it is down to 20 weeks. "In 20 more years it may be at 10 or 12 weeks," said Dr. Willke. "What is changing is the increasing sophistication of our external life support systems. Viability doesn't measure the b11by. but rather the skill and equipment of the doctors, nurses, and the hospital in which the baby is born." 
The couple also had slides of very young fetuses which they showed while explaining the existence of life from the moment of conception. 
"At eleven weeks he or she (the fetus) is what they will be at birth and you can hold the perfect form in your hand." Willke explained. "All organ systems are functional, 1he only thing needed is further growth and maturation." 
At six weeks "quickening" oc­curs. muscle movements can be perceived, and human brain ac­tivity can be recorded. The human heart begins to beat at 18 days. 
The Willkes traced this process 
back to conception,when they 
contend life realy begins. 
"At the moment of fertilization a new. totally unique a,ad in­dependent being exists. It has the · 46 chromosones that characterize humans, can replace dying cells and needs only nutrition to grow into an adult," continued Mrs. 
Willke. 

In a more clinical vein, the 
couple described the various 
methods of abortion and included 
statistics to refute the safety of 
such operations. In addition to 
deaths. complications include 
sterilization, transfusions, and 
various infections. 

The Willkes then compared the deaths of unborn children with the extermination in Nazi Germany and gave the background of killings in post-World War I Ger­many. 
After answering questions from the audience concerning views on capital punishment, mercy killings, and some of their points, the Willkes presented a short film of an actual abortion. 
ALUMNI CLUB 

Fri: Happy Hour 4-5:30 15¢ Beers 7 and 7 special 9-11 30¢ 
Sat: 1-HALF PRICE MIXED DRINK with Concert Tix Stub Whiskey Sours 
Live Music
Scotch & Mix 1 2 price 8 -midnite 
Nominations for GSU 
President , Vh:e President and Secretary-Treasurer 
are now being accepted 

All interested Grads see Barry Wessels 1028 
N. S. H. for more information. 
Nominations close March loth 

STUDENT UNION PRESENTS THE TRIUMPHANT RETURN OF 
THE BEACH BOYS TOMORROW at 8:00 
Good seats available at ACC box office all day tomorrow through showtime. The Beach Boys will play the whole show, so be prompt. 




THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Art Ferranti Executive Editor 
Dan Thornton Business Manager 
Jerry Lutkus Editor-in-Chief  Dan Barre« Executive Editor  
NEWS:  283-1715  
EDITORIALS:  283-8661  Joe Butler  
BUSINESS:  283-7471  Advertising Manager  

Friday, March 30, 1973 
The Whole Shebang
I 

It reached the boundaries of the ludicrous last night. Constitution C was added to the already declared A and B, and Petition D found its way into the fracas. 
Right now student government finds itself in a state of near absolute chaos. There are three constitutional revisions before the HPC waiting for action and a petition is circulating asking the SLC to call a constitutional convention. (This is conceivably within the SLC's power in the area of student affairs. If a member of the SLC presents it to the body or a petition, said Petition D, is presented to them with 50 signatures, then the SLC can act on it.)
All over, there is a general confusion about what exactly is going on. Right now, each hall president has the responsibility of going back to their hall councils and explaining the situation so it will filter 'back 1to the students. (The students ... you remember them. They're the ones that all of this is "being done for.) 
Which leads to an important if not 
obvious point: Does the Notre Dame 
student really1care;about what's going on 
now? Do they· give a damn if a new 
constitution is approved or not approved? 
II 

After a meeting which lasted Qver three and one half hours last night, the HPC failed to give their support to either of the two proposed constitutions. What they did do was render draltlatic evidence that the HPC has the mistaken notion that the Notre Dame. student is far more con­cerned with the process of electing a government than with the effective functioning of that government. 
Their decision to shelve the original proposal supported by the present student government demonstrates that they feel that the student government must not be dominated by an unchecked executive, and that they feel a vague constitution will not adequately serve the needs of the student body. That move is to their credit. 
But the HPC's decision to compromise 
the proposal of Jim Clarke clearly says 
that while theyrecogriize~the need for a 
legislative body, they are not yet bold 
enough to approve a plan that would 
radically change the face of student 
government. Notre Dame, an institution 
based on tradition has decided, once 
again, to maintain another ",long reigning 
tradition, mediocre student government. 
The proposal made by Pat McLaughlin 
J nd Kevin Griffin is indeed a lot closer to 
a truly representative government, than 
d Daft..b ury 
Is this big political battle just for the enjoyment ~lf those involved? 
The fact that these questions have to be asked is an indicator of the situation at hand and must likewise be considered when the idea of a constitutional con­vention is presented. Chances are that the lack of concern with the present contitutional chaos will extend into the constitutional convention. Will it make students care any more about the con­stitution ?The convention, in fairness, is the proper action. It allows everyone a voice in deciding the constitutional future of Notre Dame, but it could become just a bigger grouping of Notre Dame politicos arguing legalistic conceptions of how student government should be run. Long, drawn out, it would probably run itself right into the ground. Right idea, but poor execution. 
It seems that if the politicos are the only ones who really care about the constitutional doings and will really be the only ones who are affected by them, then last night's Petition D is just somebody else's move to get in on the fun. Move ovpr Ben Franklin, where do we buy the three cornered hats? 
Jerry Lutkus 

the original proposal, but it lacks the daring of the Clarke proposal. And when student government has been as unable to obtain results as recent ones have been, the students no longer need variations on an old theme, but rather something innovative and promising. 
But even close to half of the HPC does not recognize this fact. A. proposal to simply leave student government in its present state, with all of its proven deficiencies was only defeated by a vote of 10-9. Obviously, Rip Van Winkle has many relatives at Notre Dame. 
It will be claimed that the rejection of the Clarke proposal was an exercise in good judgement, and not a failure to enact the only proposal that is new and promising. 
But history recalls that it was said to be 
good judgement to abolish the Senate in 
favor of the Board of Commissioners, to 
use our democratic process to elect an 
Oligarchy, to allow write-in ballots to be 
cast in the recent run-offs. 
Along with those memorable 
achievements in good judgement 
tonight's HPC refusal to approve a
•

distinctively new idea in student government has threatened the student body with continuing years of un­derstandable apathy. Butch Ward 
.----------~t"':""':--. r-------------. ,-----------­
&t,-~,eN, .r'fJ 1-H P~&P He£-11££.' NO, UK~ 'IOV 10 /Ot1&"&r Y~ No/... weu.., Wt; Me~r PHR~P. ?HR£/). HY f/1).59/IN.P 86ri13R 8G' H-AS IOUJ H£ 50 e£r11N6 BACX /0J~~~'tJf HVCH Aeour 1JI(; ellS. rr:s ae&V 
: 1H£ eNeMY. YO{) Ut£T !fie£ 1AuotJb ro yov..C0/'16!
i \ I 
Q 
\ 

IJarry l;rudea&f In conclusion, I heartily recommend to the 

Dardian Knat 


A Drinker's 
Convention 

Ed Elli• 

The Student Government Constitution proposed by thecurrently in-­powPr Guardians-of-the-Students' -Palpable-Will demonstrated very little of the intellectual ability we all know resides in the reigning collection of poobahs. In fact, it stunk. The official administration disaster should be rejected by the various· hall councils in short order, since it is patently unworkable and rather blatantly confused in its genesis. 
Having projected the demise of this "document," the time has 
arrived. I suspect, to put aside jokes like the proposed structure and to 
consider a serious change, not only in our methid of apportioning the 
public goods, but also in our procedure for selection of the student 
body president himself. In short, the past four years have seen three 
l'Onstitutions preside and at least three more proposed, all of which 
promised some sort of organized student government and all of which 
failed. I propose, in all modesty, that student government be run, not 
like a government--or even like an "association"--but rather like an 
American political party, and that the student body president be 
£'1ected by delegates from the several halls assembled in solemn 
convention around 25 full beer kegs in the South Bend Armory. 
I regret that I cannot claim sole authorship for this most felicitous 
design. My distinguished colleague the Hon. "Lefty" Ruschmann of 
Sorin Hall played a critical role in its birth, watering it with his beers 
throughout its infancy. In any case, I now present for the con­
sideration of the Notre Dame Floundering Fathers the fruits of our 
collective discourse. 
Let us consider the Armory and the convention itself. 
The halls and off-campus would send a representative for every 
fifteen residents. The total would be just under 500 delegates, who 
would be organized by hall, each with a chairthing and a party whip. 
Delegationscould be committed to one of the principal contenders <in 
"primary halls." for example) or could be uncommitted or obliged to 
favorite sons or daughters (or "favorite things") on the early ballots. 
The student union would provide 25 kegs of Falstaff ("Because 
we're all in this together") to help oil the political machinery. Only 
delegates should be allowed to drinkdraft beer, however, press and 
gallery visitors receiving beer in cans when they entered the con­
vention hall. We would thus effectively surpass Mayor Daley by "six­
packing the gallery." Lefty_has suggested that for heavy drinkers we 
might even "case the joint," and it's fairly obvious that on the "fifth" 
ballot bourbon and scotch would be distributed. 
Hall presidents would receive small black hats bearing the title 
''BOSS.'' and Student Life Council members and cabinet members 
would receive similar hats designating them as "Lieutenant Bosses." 
The convention must of course elect a chairthing and it would wear a 
Falstaff hat to signify its position as brewmaster. Candidates for the 
nomination must wear dunce caps and sit in the corner. 
To conduct business, smoke-filled rooms should be constructed, where only BOSSES and lieutenants would be permitted, and those only if they carried a cigar greater than six inches in length. A beer pipeline should also be constructed so that delegations need not leave the floor for beer. This was a problem for groups in last year's Mock Democratic Convention. Demonstrations would beencouraged, and a band provided to stimulate dancing. · 
Now we must recognize that with 25 kegs, the results of the first few 
ballots are irrelevant. The winner of this convention shall be the 
candidate leading the voting on the first ballot after the last keg is 
gone, regardless of whether this tally constitutes a majorilv. 
It might be instructive at this (>Oint to draw several points of com­
parison between the Notre Dame student body and the American 
party system. First, both are confused, highly decentralized and 
definitively ungovernable. The Repulicans this year failed to agree on 
whether or not they had engaged in political espionage at Watergate, 
and the Democrats couldn't figure out whether they had learned 
anything of value. Students here seem uncertain of whether they 
prefer parliamentary government, oligarchy, benevolent dic­
tatorship, or unconstitutional monarchy. 
Second. we all know that Domers are great football fans. And who 
has not heard of parties tossing around political footballs like busing, 
amnesty. or detente with China. 
Fin.1lly. the students are like the Democratic party in the very 
important area offinances: they are always in debt, and they throw 
their money away on foolish things like booze, dope, or presidential 
nominees like Georgeous Geor,ge McGovern. 
This "Drinkers' Convention" plan offers several advantages over 
current or currently-proposed practices of electing the Student Body President. First, we would be getting student politics out of the "sunshine" and back where the subject belongs-in the smoke-filled 
rooms off the convention floor. 
~ond, and certainly more important, is the fact that we would, by 
this convention, fill the lengthly social gap between Mardi Gras and 
An Tostal weekends. Convention weekend might well become so 
popular that various convention minded bars would bid to steal it from 
the South Bend Armory. 
Finally, the adoption of this plan would reli~ve us of our obligation to 
reject the latest of administration bureaucratic miscues, which was 
going to be before the several hall councils. Since our convention 
would be the ultimate judge of student policies we wouldn't need a 
government, and association, a constitution, or any of the tripe now 
paraded as the fruits of legitimate cerebral inquiry. After all, what 
could be more representative of the Notre Dame Student Body than 500 
drunks? 

-.:;olons of LaFortune this plan, presented in the
spirit of governmental reform, with tongue-
only-partly-in -cheek. 
the observ~r 
Night Editor: Joe Abell 

Assistant Night Editors: Bill Brink. Maria Gallagher Day Editor: Bill Sohn Assistant Features Editor: Sue Prendergast Assistant Editorial Editor: Tom Tigh Picture Screener: Jerome Phillips Copy Editor: Mike Baum Compugraphic Operator: Rich Meloy Typists: Dave Rust, Mary Romer. Dennis 
l\n,1s1,1 off, Tom Modglin Ntght Controller: Rob Barringer 


Friday, March 30, 1973 the observer 
Letters Ta A Lanely Gad the elephant's night out 
r•v•r•nd rabert fllriffin 



~:_::::=:=:~=~=~=~=~~=~=====::::=:=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:~:::::~:::::~=~=~=~=~=~=~=!=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~~:;:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:::~=:=::~:;:;:;:;:?;::~:?:;~,:;:;m~)i):.:;.::'!~===~==::.:::::::::::::::::::!:!:~?!~:~:~:~:::~:~:~:=:~:= 

SYMPOSTUM ON 
Starts Friday 
EQUAL RIGHTS AMENDMENT MARCH 30-31 FILM, "GROWING· UP FEMALE" 
Fri. 8:00 pm Memoriall.Thrar) -Auditorium 
MARTHA GRIFFITHS, ro. Mich) 
Sat. 10:00 am Memorial Library AucfTtorlum 
PANEL DISCUSSION· NOW, WPC, i COMMON CAUSE 

m 
~ Sat. 2:00 pm Memorial Library Auditorium ~~ 
~ Sponsored by Women's Rights Association, NO Law School ~;;~~ 
~ I 
§:'"-:::::::;~:::::::::;:::~:;:;:~:~:;:~~=!~:!:~:~:~:!:!~:!:!::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::!=:=====::::=.~&::...~;:==-~~=====~=====~*=~=;.:~:!=~=~*~:::::!:..«::::::::.;.:::::::::::::::: 


Now that spring is breaking upon us once again, and all the dark sadness of the earth is bursting with the blooms of glory, I become a foolish romantic of the season with 
moods as capricious as the April weather. 1 weep in the presence of hyacinths, and I laugh at the solemnity of robins trodding in pursuit of worms across the lawn. The spring-time mood is the mood of lovers, and the heart reaches out to all the beauty it has ever known. That is why I remember with unexpected poignancy a Manhattan ad­venture that should never be mentioned at all. But it isspringtime,and I am drunk unto foolishness on the noon wine of flowers. I want to' tell a tale that could have been a lover's story <I think) except for the com­mitments that love has already made. 
One day, two years ago, I was in New 



riding a wave 
York, enjoying myself in ttie role of a Manhattan playboy. I was vested in a gray suit. with matching shirt, looking verymuch like an elephant on holiday. 
Obviously, there are people attracted to elephants, or the chaps who resemble them, though one does not expect to find the elephant-types window shopping at Tif­fany's. On the other hand, us elephant-types are grateful for recognition, Pspecially the recognition of pretty, middle-aged women who are staring in the same window at the very same Tiffany's diamond ring. That is what happened: both of us stared at the ring; then, becoming conscious of one another. we b9wed our heads in the way that strangers have of acknowledging the other's presence. Then, strangers still, we moved off in separate directions. 



Try to visualize the sound of the Beach B9ys' music. Inevitably you'll paint ,a 
,pj.cture of sun, sand and surf, of Caroline 
.No 1andjWouldn't It Be Niceand Sloop John 
B. ·Tne·isights and sounds of the California surfing colonies' are etched indelibly on the· minds of millions-~of young people everywhere, manyof whom have' never seen a surfboard. America has grown up with the 
music of the Beach Boys. Similarly, the Beach Boys have grown and matured with their audiences. 
'" The group's musical expansion began with Pet SQunds, .considered by mC~.ny to be the Beach Boys' finest album. Pet Sounds established Brian Wilson as the, group's musical coordinator, 'c?ndu~tor ,and~ arranger. Under Brian's _ dtrectwn, the group began performing experiments with orchestrataccompaniments and electronic instruments. The songs became more and more sophisticated, relying heavily} upon the vocals of Carl Wilson, AI Jardine and· Mike Love. In the late '60's the Beach Boys concentrated their efforts in the recording studio, hoping to perfect that "sound" Brian ' Wilson had generated in his compositions. 
Surf's Up, released in late 1971, was the result. The album achieved critical and popular acclaim. The lkach Boy'sconcert at Notre Dame in October of '71 provided a capacity audience with just the right amounts of nostal~ia and innovation. The group performed many of its established hits as well as selections from the then­newly-released album, surf's up. In the final segment of the concert, the Boys asked the audience to name its favorite Beach Boys song. The evening ended the way it began, with the warm sounds of summer echoing through the ACC arena. 
Since the Notre Dame appearance the Beach Boys have produced two albums: So Tough and Hofland. So Tough introduced two new members of the group, Ricky Fataar and Blondie Chaplin, both of whom served as backup musicians in the ND concert. Additionally, the album is without the services of Bruce Johnston (he wrote "Disney Girls") who left the group in mid­1972. So Tou~hwas not well received by the critics, perhaps because the influence of Brian Wilson's scoring and orchestrating abilities is non-existent. 
Holland, released a few months ago, recaptures the magic of the Beach Boys' sound. "Sail on Sailor" and "California Sage" evoke memories of the early surfer songs; "Steamboat" utilizes a number of synthetic musical effects, reminiscent of Surf's Up. The album has been :st'lling well, and the Beach Boys again are riding a wave of successful concert appearances. 
Tickets for the Beach Boys concert on Saturday night are still availalbe at the ACC Ticket Office. For information call 7534 
A half hour later, I met her m ~l'ibner's 
bookstore at the children's counter. She was 
looking at The Giving Tree I had just asked 
the clerk whether the store stocked The 
Giving Tree. and she directed me to the 
place where the jewel-fancier from Tif­
fany's was standing, reading a copy of the 
book I wanted to buy. The Giving Tree is one 
of the books that is read only by very nice 
people. When she saw me buy that book, I 
knew that she not only admired me as the 
elephant-type--gray and bulky and very 
wholesome--but that she also respected me 
as a very nice person. For a second time, 
we nodded our heads and we smiled, as 
though in mutual congratulations for our 
excellence in taste as readers. Then I 
wandered out onto Fifth Avenue in the late 
afternoon. 

Eventually, I boarded a bus that took me 
down to Greenwich Village for dinner. I got 
off the bus at Sheridan Square, and im­
mediately looked around for a restaurant. 
Then I became aware that the Fifth·Avenue 
shopper had gotten off the same bus. She, 
too, was looking around, probably, I thought 
to myself, for an eating place also. 
Irresistibly drawn to each other, it seems, 
by gems and literary habits, we walked 
toward each other. 

"Good evening," I said in my shy, 
elephant-type way. "Are you looking for 
something?" 

She smiled back, as though to assure me 
that she understood the infinite purity of my 
question. "Yes," she said. "I am looking 
for a good restaurant where I can eat din­
ner." 

It should be obvious by now that we dined 
together: beauty, middle-aged and pretty, 
supping with the beast, middle-aged and 
elephantine. Both of us recognized, I think, 
that we were violating the proprieties that 
say: never talk to strangers; but we trusted 
each other and ourselves. In the simple 
ritual of sharing a meal, we spoke words of 
friendship to the other's loneliness. Oddly, 
however, each of us guarded our anonymity. 
Only first names were used: mine was 
Robert, hers was Catherine. I did not tell 
her I was a priest; she did not say if she was 
married. I told her I was a teacher; she said 
she worked in an investment house. 
I told her I was a Catholic who had 
recently visited the Vatican. She said she 
was engaged on Sundays in teaching the 
Wesleyan catechism to children. I spoke of 
Indiana and the people I love at the 
University there. She told me of her home, 
some miles from the City, where she lived 
with her mother. 

I told her of my visit that day to a little, old 
lady who lived in a one room apartment-1 did not mention I had brought her Holy Communion. The old lady's only com­panions were statues of the Virgin. She had hundreds of statues of the Virgin, collected . from all over the world. The old lady · smoked; but because of her lameness and aloneness. she was afraid of fire, so she had cans, half-filled with water, scattered 
among the Virgins all over the room, where 
she could drop her cigarettes when she had 
finished them. 

."It was sad," I said, "to see that little old 
lady who has lived for nearly ten years 
without leaving that room with those statues 
and those cans where cigarette butts float 
despondently on the water." 

Together we sighed for all the people who dined alone that night, and we hoped there would be someone to love us when we became as helpless as that old lady. 
When, at the end of the meal. Catherine and I said goodbye, we promised we would meet for !dinner on the 
Thursday of the week that followed. I don't know whether I really intended to keep that appointment, or whether she intended to keep it, either. Maybe the promise, for both of us, was only the expression of a wish. We knew our duties prohibited us from following-up on our friendship. We did not want to~id not dare to-become involved. Anyway, on the following Thursday, I was on duty all day at the rectory, and I could not have met her. But all day long, I thought of Catherine. 
I never saw her again. I did not know her name or her address, and she did not know mine. 
But this morning, in the mail, I found a note signed "Catherine." There was no return address. The note said: "I was browsing in a religious shop in New York. I saw your picture staring at me from the cover of a book." Then she asked: "Do you remember the dinner we had at Delaney's?" 
·she need not have asked the question. Because if she knows anything at all about elephants an their type, she should realize, that elephants never forget. Never forgetting is one of the things that makes an elephant so endearing. 
trivia solved 
IL..L~L..:..I.-=..J...!.1.L..L..L::..:....J.::=...L.=.:..:..:... 

MAIN CHURCH 

SUNDAY MASSES
Griffiths coming Saturday 
hy .Jim Lindsay Starr R<'porter 
U.S. Congresswoman Martha (;riffiths will discuss the nationally proposPd Equal Rights Amen~­nu•nt this Saturday at 10 a.m. m IIH· Lihrary Auditorium as part of an J•:(JUal Hights program spon­sor·pd hy the Women's Rights Assodation of the Notre Dame I.;tw S• ('hooI. 
<;riffiths, a ten-term DPmocrat fmm l\1 ichigan, was instrumental in the passing of the Equal Rights :\nwndmmt in the U.S. House Hl·pn·st•ntatives in 1970. S~e is also tht• first women ever to Sit on th<· House Ways and Means ('ommillee and is one of the most infhwntial leaders in the fight to stn•ngthen Congressional control ot gov<•rnment spending. 
<:riffiths' discussion will be 

also in the Library Auditorium. 
Hepr<'sentatives of various 
wom<•n's organizations, including 
the National Organization of 
WotnPn and the Women's Political 
Caucus. will participate. 
All students, male and female, are invit(.•d to attend the program t•vents. No admission fees will be eharged. 
Th<' Women's Rights Assocation of the Notre Dame Law School is sponsoring the weekend program in an <'ffort to clear up some of the myths about the Equal Rights Anwndm<'nl. according to WRA presid<'nt Judy Snyder. 
"Many arguments concerning the mnPndment simply aren't h<lsed on fact," said Snyder. ..So W(.''ve set up this program for informational purposes." 
·Th<' F:q~_al Ri~hts ~mendment stat<'s that Pquahtvof nghts under 
pn•(·edPd in the three-part Equal. llw law shall not be denied or Bights program by the showing of abridge? by the U.S. or .~Y any llw film (;1·owing lip Female, a statP of account of sex: The study of the feminine awareness amend.mPnt further provides that mm·c•mt•nt, Friday evening at 8 "Congress and several_st~tes sha_ll o'clock in the Library Auditorium. have the power WI thm their 
Following Griffiths' talk of rl'spcl'liv~ jurisdiction to enf?rce Saturday, a panel discussion this art1cle by appropriate t'onel'rning the Equal Rights ll'gislation." Amendment will be held at 2 p.m.,. Tlw Notre Dame Equal Rights 
El Teatro depicts working st1uggle3 
of the Chicanos 
continued from page 2 
the San Francisco Mime Troupe, 
explained El Teatro's unique 
al'tos: "We insist on calling them 
ados rather than skits, not only 
because we talk in Spanish, but 
because skit seems too light a word 
for the work we are trying to do."(-
Bamparts, November 1967). 
El Teatro improvises within the framework of traditional eharacters associated with the strike. The Boss, the Scab, the Worker. the Labor Contractor-e­ach character is presented with a dar indentity defined by signs, masks. and a few props. 
Picket lines to tours 
El Teatro Campesino started in Dl'lano, California to work on the picket lines of the grape pickers in support of the United Farm­workers. They performed without seenery, props, lighting, or scripts, much as they still do today. 
El Teatro began traveling to the Southwest and Northwest in 1966 to raise funds and support for the union. They performed songs and ados on picket lines, at organizing ml'etings and rallies, and before sympathetic labor and cultural groups. 
El Teatro Campesino has received the Los Angeles Drama Critics Award 0970and 1971) and the Obie Award (New York, 1968.) El Tea tro has also been the model for the Teatro Urbano (City Tlwatrel and the Teatro Chicano (theatre workshop for teatro groups. l 

: 52860 U.S. 3 1 North ~~


J ~~.~
(in front of Ramada Inn) 

..~ 272-9720 
... 
.... . 
, ·' ~ -.-..."11.-• --• ----.-.-.-.-.-.-.---.-. • ·~ll.· ...·····:-.· ..............-....-.-.-.------.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.:.:-.-.-.-.-...-.-.-.-·~·-J--.-. 
.... -----.-.. ---...... ----.. .. .. .. .. .. . .. . ---------..... ------.. --.. -.. -............................_.,..... .. .. 
CAC Dance & Drama Series presents 



"EL TEATRO CAMPESINO" 
Farm Workers Theater 
"Wins cheers...makes even 'scab' sound lyrical...when it comes. to political drama, there is no substitute for the real thing" 
--THE NEW YORK TIMES 

·-. "Lively quick-moving funny" 
--THE CHICAGO SUN-TIMES 
SATURDAY, MARCH 31 
8:00 pm WASHINGTON HALL 
ADMISSION BY DONATION: 
CAC'DANCE &DRAMA PATRONS FREE Co-sponsored by *Midwest Council of La Raza *Centro d• Estudios Chicanos e lnvestigacionJs Socialea *Chicano Studies Program *MECHA 
NOTE: THIS EVENT WILL REPLACE THE PREVIOUSLY 
. . 
ANNOUNCED ..EVENING OF TWO ACT PLAYS''. 

RANDALL'S INN DINNER 
Roast Round of Beef sliced to your liking Two additional hot entrees Potato and vegetable Plus: Our own oven hot potato bread 
assorted salads  assorted desserts  
.J  .  
Only $3.90  All you can eat  

Served every Sunday 12 to 8 0 1clock 
THE PEACH TREE RESTAURANT AT RANDALL1 S INN TRAVELODGE 130 Dixieway North South Bend, IN. Phone 272-7373 
program is being presented at a ,·ery opportune time, according to \\'HA president Snyder, as the Equal Hights Amendment is due to app<>ar for consideration in the Jnrliana state senate next week. Should the Senate pass the am<•ndm<'nt. Indiana will become thl' :!9th state to grant it approval. 
Snyder is quite optimistic that the amendment will receive its required ratification by 38 statPs. as the legislation is still in its first year of a seven-year period allow('d for state approval. 
Tht• passing of the Equal Rights Anwndml'nt could bring about sPv<'ral ehanges in present legal praetiees affecting both men and wonwn. according to Snyder. 'J'hp am('Jldment's approval should oppn up present credit laws, making women creditors as liable as nwn in mortgage and home loan ('asPs. MPn may be given equal status to women in seeking child ('Ustody in divorce cases if the ;mwndmPnt is passed. 
"But probably the most im­iiOrtant l'ffect of the amendment's <lpproval." said Snyder, ..would be the subsequent re­evaluation of rtll present social 
laws.'' 

El Teatro Campasino tells the 
story of the farmworker in 
various actos. 
El Teatro Campesino's per­formance at 8 p.m. Saturday night, Washington Hall, is being presented by a number of campus organizations: Cultural Arts Commission, Centro De Estudios Chicanos E Investigaciones Sociales, Chicano Studies P­
I rogram, MECHA, and the Midwest \Council of La Raza. 
COLLEGIATE NOTES 
Understand ·an subjects, plays and novels taster! ' 
Ttlousands ot topics available within 48 hours of mailing Complete with bibliography and footnotes Lowest Prices are GUARAN· TEED SEND $1.90 for our t"atest ,1esLriptive Mail-Order Catalogue with. Postage.Paid Order Forms too: 
COLLEGIATE RESEARCH 1 N. 13th St. Rldg. Rm 706 Phila. Pa. 19107 
HOT-LINE ( 215) 563-3758 
5:15pm Sat.  Fr. Thomas McNally, C.S.C.  
9:30am Sun.  Fr. Dave Schlaver, C.S.C.  
10: 45 am  Sun.  Fr. Steve Malkiewicz, 0. F.M.  
12:15 pm Sun.  Fr. William Toohey, C.S.C.  

"Evensong'' vespers at 4:30 pm Sunday. Con­fessions are heard before each weekday mass 3 nd from 7:00 to 7:30 pm Monday through Saturday. 
~ 

RoGERS 
.Optical 
lOGE!! ATWELL • OWNH 
I, 
HOUitSr 

MCN • TUES -THUl -fll 9 AN. 5:30PM WED -tiAT 9 AM 12 NOON 
COMI'LfTf ~l!CTACLE 
SE"IVICE ALL ~ f DR.'S 
PftSCRiniONS HONOIH 
Call 

189-7809 
r.=.·.······································"'-·"'··--.~.·.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.--~=----.-.-.-.-.-.-.-........-.-.-.......... -.. -----...........-........_......._...
._AZAR's··-----------.v·-----1 
..
..
..
.. 
ljBig Boy Family Restaurantl 
. . ..·...
. ..
.
. ~ 
. ~ 
~ 
~· Now in your area .~~ 
. .•.
. .•
. .•. 
Friday, Mar<:h 30, 1973 the observer 
7 

Frosh, Soph offices abolished 
Deadline today for class office petitions 
by Jeanne Murphy 
Staff Reporter 
Today is the deadline for students interested in running for class offices to hand in their petitions, but this year only the top two classes will hold elections. 
Presently there are two four­mao tickets and one single can­didate running for senior class offices, and only one four-man ticket running for the junior class positions. Freshman and sophomore class offices however 
. ' ' 
are bemg abolished and no elections are planned 'for these positions. 
According to present Freshman class president, Jim Bradley, 


SMC coffeehouses successful 
by J. Patrick Boyle Campus Ministry, and are 'staff Reporter organized by Jan Harrington. · Commenting on the program,
St. Mary's Office of· Campus Harrington said, "The cof­Ministry has sponsored a Friday £eehouses have been very suc­night coffeeliouse on an ex­cessful so far, and we <Campusperimental basis for the past two Ministry) have asked student weeks. The coffeehouses are the government for funds to expandidea of Fr. Cormier, director of our program." 
SMC asseznblynixes lobby 
Saint Mary's has decided not to join the Indiana colleges organizing a lobby to bring student concerns to the state legislature, according to Sue Oglesbee, SMC student body vice president. 
The proposal to send a student representative came before the Student Assembly at their meeting last night, and was immediately dropped," Oglesbee said. She did not give any reasons for the action. 
Dennis <H-man> Etienne, Notre Dame Student Provost, is heading the movement at Notre Dame, which he said "would go beyond backing the age of majority · bill and become a permanent thing." 
The Student Assembly did vote to appropriate $200 in student government funds to a mission in ­New Mexico where five Saint Mary's students will be working this summer. The program, for­
• merly under the auspices of the now-folded Dunbarton College, is presently under the direction of Sr. Margaretta Reppen of the SMC education department. 
The Assembly also moved to invite members of the Board of 
ioin the 
Regents and their spouses to campus one day earlier than their scheduled May meeting to enable them to participate in regular campus life. The Regents will sleep in the dormitories, eat in the cafeteria, and attend classes with a student escort. 
The coffeehouse is located in a 
partioned section of the Snac, Bar, 
Ioca ted below the Student Dining 
Hall. Harrington describes it "as a 
dark, candlelit atmosphere with 
cushions on the floor, and a stage 
£or our entertainment." 
Lisa Kinner is in charge of en­tertainment, and anyone in­terested in performing may contact her at 4265. Students, Nancy Parker, Ann O'Connell, and Kit McGugan also assist at the coffeehouses. 
Tonight, from 9 to 1:30, Julie Johnson, Dan Marroquin, Mark Niedercorn, and Rich Walters, Mike Plunket and Jim Gresser and Don DePetris and Ole Munson wiU perform at the coffeehouse. Refreshments will be served. Volunteers are needed to helo out. 
There is no admission, and every­one is invited. 

COME SEE US 
Looking for a good place to buy your wines. Choose from over 750 different wines at THE WINERY. Large selection of ~lifornia Wines. 
We offer Many Specia-ls. 
CHATEAU MOULIN DU VILLET $2.49 CHATEAU FOURREAY $2.95 SPANISH WINEg $1.42 CHATEAU LASCOMBES 69 $6.50 




THE WINERY 
2426 Lincolnway West, Mish. Phone 259-9046 Imported Beers Case Discounts 


DANCE MARATHON! 
AprH 6, 7, 8 
All proceeds go fo muscular dystrophy 
for more information: Come to Student Gov't Office or call 7668 
there is no immediate need for the l'xistence of Freshman class of­ficers. There are no formal fresh­man activities to coordinate and manage. Bradley commented that, upon being elected to his orfice in the fall, his main purpose as Freshman president was "to dig up a purpose for his role." 
Very discouraged, Bradley and a few Sophomore class officers sought ways for abolishing the insignificant class offices. After consulting with Dr. Ackerman Bradley, Jim Hunt, Senior class president, and Greg Garrison, Sophomore class 'vice-president decided not to have any class of­ficers next year. Senior graduation activities and the Junior parent's weekend, however~ required some organization. The group changed the "no election'' decision for Seniors and Juniors because these events need organization and management from the students. 
Bradley stressed the fact that there was no pressure from the administration on class officers. The decision rested solely in the hands of the present officers whe felt that their jobs are n~l necessary. 
"All class offices are worthless considering the work that I have done as well as the work that other 
officers have done," exclaimed 
Greg Garrison who expressed a 
desire for a temporary committee 
in place of officers. "All student 
government is in turmoil now;" he 
continued, "there is no direction 
and no goal." He contends that 
class offices are a waste of time 
and talent. 

Milo Coccimiglio, Junior 
president, also agrees with the new 
decision, contending that the 
Freshman and Sophomore classes 
have no structure. He does believe 
that there is a definite need for 
Junior and Senior class officers 
because the small amount of ac­
tivities that these classes sponsor 
are full-time responsibilities. 

Class offices have been nothing 
but a tradition passed on 
throughout the years. There is no 
formal document requiring class 
officers, nor is there written in any 
Student Government Constitution 
a necessity for class offices. 
Therefore, there is no need to 
appeal to a higher board of 
government to request formal 
abolition of class elections. 

In the event that students want to 
run fqr Freshman or Sophomore 
class \)ffices and have mass sup­
port ftom their class, Bradley 
fores'eel an election, although he 
sees no need for electing an officer .who_ serves no purpose. 
-
• 
ND gridders set for spring drills 
hy Vic Dorr Sports Editor 
NParly three months have pass<'d since Notre Dame's loss to Ndm1ska in the Orange Bowl, but Ihosp months haven't been idle orws for coach Ara Parseghian and 1lw n•st of the Irish staff and playprs. 
(;raduation losses, conditioning, and <'valuations have combined to lill much of the three-month hiatus and. beginning tomorrow af­lt>rnoon. the ND football squad will swing into spring practice--another 
phase  of  its  off-season  
pn•parations  for the 1973  grid  
campaign.  

"Wp're a year older now, a year more mature, and a year more PXpcrienced in several positions," said Parseghian, who has a core of 14 rl-turning starters--seven each from the offensive and defensive .lt•ams--t.o work with during spring 
drills. 
But the graduation losses, while lh<'y are not many, are in key positions. Gone are both of last season's co.,captains, tackles Greg Marx and John Dampeer, both regular fullbacks, Andy Huff and .John Cieszkowski, and a pair of linebackers, Jim O'Malley and .Jim Musuraca. -Also leaving are tight end Mike Creaney, rover­hack Ken Schlezes, and center llave·Drew. 
"Those will be the areas of greatest concern," said the Irish head coach, "Because those were our most experienced players., But there is still a good deal of <'xperience returning this spring, including offensive linemen Frank Porn a rico and Dave Casper, quarterback Tom Clements, running backs Gary Diminick and Eric Penick, and defensive back Mike Townsend. 
Those players will join better than one hundred other hopefuls tomorrow at Cartier Field for the first day of spring workouts. 

Snttirdays during the spring months are usual1y reserved for fi)m(•d scrimmages, but tomorrow's session, according to Parseghian. will be largely an organizational one. 
"W(•'ll try to organize our practice and our people," he said. "And. since freshmen were t•ligible for competition last year, all of these people will have been t•xposed--to a certain degree--to our system and our terminology. 
Saturday's practice will just be to r<'fresh their memories. lt'IJ be for 
!<•aching,  techniques,  and  
organization."  
Tomorrow's  classroom session  

will begin a month of full-dress workouts--a month which will conclude on May 5th, with the 43rd annual ·slue-Gold scrimmage game--and Parseghian is looking for the month to be one of offensive refinement and defensive im­provement. 
"WE' feel wehaveto make drastic improvements in our defense," he said. "We were hurt by graduation, of course, and the t•ffect of last year's defense was limited by some critical injuries at mid-season--Steve Niehaus (a starter at defensive tackle through the first four games) is a classic example--and we hope to have those players back . 
"We also hope to return to the type of defense that Notre Dame has enjoyed in past years. We WE're disappointed in our last two games last season. 
"l think we need to improve on offense, though we were not too bad there last year. We averaged 423 yards per game, but we'll have to have more consistency, and we'll have to be able to handle all of the defensive variations that will be thrown at us." 
While satisfied with last year'S showing on offense, Parseghian is still hoping for a spring that will see an improved passing attacla and overall refinements in E'Xecution. But the defensive face· lifting may be a bit more ex­tensive. 
"It's possible our defensive philosophy might change some," admitted Ara. ·"We'll go into practice with new ideas, and we'll try new things, but that's really no different from any other year." 
What will be different this spring is the presence of last year's fresh­man ball players, a group now £"ligible for four years of varsity t·om petition. ''We should be able to make faster progress because of that." said Parseghian. "On of­fense we'll . have an edge in nomenclature and terminology, and WE' should have our offense totally established at an earlier 
Pre-season selections kick off: Irish picked for eighth-qlready 
Year in and year out, without Though the 1973 campaign is still exception, the brand of football months away, the pre-season played at Notre Dame does litany has already started, and strange things to the analysists already the Irish are positioned and predictors who attach them-between two extremes of s~lves to the collegiate game. forecasting opinion_. The Fo:ot.ball 
Last season, the Irish were ~==~~Y, ~~n~~~=b~~~e~nd~r~1~~~ picked to finished third by one pre-opin,ion spectrum in its March 31st season poll, and were written off as issue. the first of many pre-season out of the Top Twenty by another, surveys. but coach Ara Parseghian's squad
finished 15th in the nation with a 8-3 Despite observing that r(:'{'ord. and left the forecasting "Michigan-Nebraska would have extremists far out of bounds. made a better g&me than the 
Jake Kline's ~nounds1nen face doubled-up schedule 
The Notre Dame baseball team  played all of our games either at  
and its pitching staff in particular  dusk when the setting sun was a  
has been taking advantage of a  problem or under the lights which  
two-week layoff. The squad had  we weren't used to. It rained often  
better, because from here on out  during our stay making the infield  
the Irish will be seeing double - very bumpy.  
double headers that is.  "But our biggest handicap was  
Notre Dame, 2-8 after a spring  not being able to practice outside  
trip to. the Hurricane Review in  at home before making the trip.  
Tulsa: "okla. wi-U open its northern  All the other schools in the tourney  
schedule at home Tuesday at 1:00  <Oral Roberts, New Mexico State  
p.m. with a 1wm bill against  and Arkansas) were able to work  
Hillsdale College. Then the Irish  outdoors much of the winter."  
have two doubleheaders with  Notre Dame had to play the last  
\\'isconsin April 7 and 8 and seven  two games of the tournament  
more before they meet Miami of  without its regular outfield ~Dick  
Ohio in a single game April 'n.  Nussbaum, Ed Lange and Howard  
"I think the pitching staff will be  Wood) and catcher !Bob Roemer.  
ready for all this action," says  Injuries sidelined all four players,  
Coach Jake Kline, now in his 39th  leaving Kline with only pitchers  
season as baseball boss at Notre  left in reserve. Kline expects to  
Dame. "When I saw this fall that  have his team at full strength for  
we had a lot of kids who coluld  the home opener.  
throw the ball I decidedH would be  "We gained experience on our  
good for us to play this kind of  trip and it gave us an opportunity  
schedule <46 games.)."  -to get in a lot of practice," says  
.T_he Ir1sh should be p~epared for  Kline. "I'm well pleased with ourhitting ( .262 ) t th' · t "  
their northern opposition They  p·t h M' a . IS pom · .  
had several strikes against them in  1 c er Ike Riddell (1-1), third  
.  baseman Ton Hansen ( .306),  
the Review.  Hoerner L38U,Nussbaum (.545)  
"Tulsa is r3nked fifth in the  and Lange ( .316) were all named to  
country and five of our losses were  the Hurricane All-Tournament  
to them," Kline explains. "We  team.  

Nebraska-Notre Dame match," and despite an analysis which suggests that "Coach Ara Par­seghian has to rebuild Irish morale Clfter the Orange Bowl debacle" Th<' Football N.-ws staff still picks 
the. Irish. to fin~sh eighth in t~e n~t10n this commg fall, and shll picks three ND players--one of whom played in four games in '72­as pre-season All-Americans. 
F'rank Pomarico is tabbed as a firM-teain selection at offensive guard, and Tom Clements~s the second-team choice at quar­terback, but the big surprise is at defensive tackle--where freshman 
Steve Niehaus, who injured his knee after last year's Pitt game and did not see further action, is listed as a first-team selection. 
THE ROMA 
wefcomes 
ND·SMC students 
Your host: Frank ~nastasio "Wc'ltmake you a pizza you can't ref11se" 
*DELICIOUS 
ITALIAN FOOD *PIZZA *LIQUOR 
Dancing to the sophisticated jazz rock sounds of Bill Nic~ Trio. Open until 4:00am on weekends. 
Happy Hours, 11:30-7:60 daily • Soecial prices for drinks. 
For Deliveries Call 234-3258 211 N. Michigan Ave. 
Downtown South Bend 1Nt•xt to Morris Civic! 


date. Defensively we plan_ to do eomt• from the artificial turf on some £'Xperimenting, to do some em-tier Field. The synthetic 
surface will enable the Irish
looking at different things, so our progress· there probably won't be ~ridd{'rs to practice without in­l£'rruption through South Bend's
as rapid as on offense.". 
wet. soggy spring weather.
Another change this spring will 
OBSERVER­
sPoRTs 


..B£&•££!152H£2!UHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII-IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII!IIUIIIIIIU£!1!111111111211111UUUII£1!111111Uiili!
-
Start yoB~ejj;d s·hed i 
=
= 
~-::;,%"~r~~:~!!!~~ Juniper across ,~=­
Mass and Dinner

== 
IFriday 5:00. pm 
i!IH!H££22!11!££!!1111111112!t1J1HI2Mt!IHI!IIItft5..2-IUIIIIIH!H~~III£11122HHH 
iiJ~r <nolnnial Panrakr ifnust 
"Enioy a snack or dinner" 

35 Varieties of Pancakes Chicken -Steak -Sandwiches 

U.S. 31 (Dixieway) North Your Host (Across from Holiday Inn) 
Bob Edwards '50 
Looking for a life of Growth and Service? 
.. Do you remember the last time you gave of ~ourself and grew in knowledge? Reca II the last t1me you accepted a challenge because you knew others believed in you. Remember the last time you experienced the power of Jesus Christ in 
your life. .. As a Holy Cross Brother these experiences can be repeated and deepened in a life of dedication and service to God's people. 
For more information write to: lirothcr Robert Fillmore Phone: 233-8273 l•asll Hall Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 




