----------~--------------~----------,-----) 
On The Inside 
SMC loses Observer... page 3 



serving the notre dame community
Vol. VII, No. 74 Tuesday, February 6, 1973 


SLC hears appeals of blacks 
Social meeting place sought 
puses. 

Sophomore Mike Nickerson stated, "It is the A panel of black students yesterday discussed proposals for improving the situation of University's responsibility to black students, just .as blacks in the Notre Dame community. social facilities are made available for only wh1te students." He explained, "Notre Dame is a town with to go into town for church services, where they feel a person fulltime to communicate between the two different cultures and so it should provide a life for they are misunderstood and unwanted by their own 'powerless and the power of the administration.' ". both cultures: there is much talk about civil rights people. Itwas felt that if reHgion is required of them in 
The last basic need was for theimmediate increment here. but we have yet to see some results." a basically all-Catholic University, Protestants ser­of money in endowments for minorities.sincethere is no vices should be held on campus. Furthermore, longer a guarantee of financial aid with the Nixon 
minority course prospective Black Studies majors are discouraged that cutback. "Since most black students are at Notre there are not enough electives available in the limited Dame on financial aid, the University needs to come up Black Studies program. 
with another source of money to keep up enrollment. 

The problem of the unbalanced ratio of black men to Endowments would be increased in order to improve
women provided further reason for the "Black House" proposal. There is an even worse disadvantage since racist attitude the number of minoriy students on campus.", ex­
plained Ellison.

there is no place for visiting black women to stay, which is complicated by the fact that women from A third pQint was made concerning the protective 
South Bend an: inevitably accompanied by untrusting nature of the University which lends itself to a racist effectively handled town men to the Notre Dame parties. Having the house attitude towards black students. One example made 
off-campus would provide an opportunity for was that a certain black senior has had to show his ID Fred Giuffride, Chairman of the SLC, commented on lJniversity "brothers" to come to know those of the card 17 times since coming to Notre Dame, illustrating the hearing, "I thought that the panel handled it very South Bend community in a more natural way, without Carl Ellison's point that, "The black is second class effectively, and unemotionally. They didn't cry about 
the tension of the "Notre Dame-stereotype " hanging unless he can prove more than anyone else that he is their problems, but shared them openly and clearly. over them. part of the community. There is so much subtle They were reasonable in their recommendations. I A second source of complaints involved the pressure that, to live in this environment, it is though it was one of the best hearings we have had." curriculum and ignorance on the part of the whites. miraculous that bl.lcks have managed to stay here." Also attending the hearing was University President 
The black students felt that if two semesters of A fourth recommendation was for a full-time ~r. Theodore M. Hesburgh who commented, "I en­Theology were required for an Arts and Letters representative for Black Student Afairs, instead of the Joyed the Hearing very much. I have not been to an degree. a course in understanding minority existence current part time position. Ellison claimed that, SLC meeting for a long time and found this one very 
should also be required. It is an inconvenience to have "There are enough Black Student Affairs that we need interesting." 


Viet peace-keeping teams take up positions 
by Charles Mohr 
(c) 1973 New York Times 

My Tho, South Vietnam-­International peace-keeping teams moved into place in seven provincial centers of South Viet­nam today, but had not yet begun their work of monitoring violations of the cease-fire agreement. 
lt was increasingly clear, however. that the South Viet­namese government had, in procedural matters, out­maneuvered and vitually stalemated the Communist delegates from North Vietnam and the Viet Cong. 
The Comminist members of the 
four-party jointmilitary com­
mission were being shuttled to 
tightly guarded South Vietnamese 
military installations where they 
were secluded from the population, 
unable to 'make contact with 
civilians and posed non political or 
propaganda threat. 
Why the Communists had agreed 

to these arrangements was an open 
question, but it seemed possible 
that complaints about the arrangements might arise in the Pleiku. Phan Thiet, Bien Hoa, My future. Tho and Can Tho. 
Informed American sources Later, 26 smaller peace-keeping said. meantime, that it seemed teams from both commission are likely that some American to be established in smaller prisoners of war would be released regional centers. sometime in the next few days at -Typical of today's movement the town of An Loc, about 60 miles was the arrival here at My Tho, in north of Saigon. They said no the Mekong Delta 40 miles south­exact timetable or plan had been west of Saigon, of a U.S. Army bus agreed upon. with a white cross painted on the 
The teams of the international side. The bus carried 27 men, commission for control and mostly officers, from the four­supervision of the cease-fire that nation control commission who set set up regional headquarters this up headquarters in a little Viet-morning were made up from five namese hotel. _ to nine soldiers from each of the Later in the day, U.S. helicaPters commission's four member flew 45 North Vietnamese ottlCers countries--Canada, Hungary, and men from Saigon to the Indonesia and Poland. headquartes base of the South 
Informed American officials Vietnamese army's seventh said that teams of the four-party division at Dong Tam, a few miles .iooint military commission, wes~ of My Tho. consisting of officers and men The Viet Cong delegates did n«?t from the United States, South arrive with the North Vietnamese, Yietnam, North Vietnam and Viet but sources in Saigon said they Cong Provisional Reveloutionary would be coming by evening. Government. would also be in "Our only job today is to create place in the seven regional accomodations for working," said headquarters by tonight. army Capt. Laszlo Horvath, of 
The seven regional headquarters Hungary. 
were located by Hue, , Da Nang, The two commissions were created under terms of the Paris what it feared--any political im­cease-fire agreement to share pact created by the presence of responsibility for monitoring the enemy officers and men in cease-fire. The agreement is government areas. Nine residents somewhat vague as to how they of My Tho questioned on the streets are to operate: but it seems clear today had no idea that VietCong or they must work together if ef-North Vietnamese officers were l'ective action is to take place. arriving in the area. 
The teams from both groups were How long the Communists willsix days behind the scheduled laid find such arrangement tolerable is down in the agreement for setting not certain. Yesterday in Siagonup their regional headquarters. 
their top leaders were permittedWhile the control commission off the airbase for the first time toteam here was accessible, the attend a meeting of controlmembers of the North Vietnamese commission members, but weret•ontingent of the joint military tightly guarded by South Viet­commission at Dong Tam nearby namese military and civil police.
were vitual prisoners in the 
military compound. The same has The members of the controlbeen true of their top leaders based commission team have seemedat Saigon's Tan Son Nhut airbase. 
friendly with each other. At anThere seems to be no way they inaugural lunch theydrank redcould communicate directly with wine from tulip champagneViet Cong areas even though such glasses.
areas exist nearby. No South Vietnamese or foreign civilians Col. Robert Screaton, of Ottawa, can rea~h or talk to them, .and any leader of the Canadian contingent, South VIetnamese attemptmg to do said he was "hopeful" that teams so would ?e arrested .i'?mediately \would be able to begin making trips by the Sa1gon authorities. into the rural areas to look . for 
Thus. so far the Saigon gover-cease-fire violations by the end of 
nment appears to have forestalled the week. 

.----------------------·-----~--------------------~-~--------------~-~----~---~-­
Tuesday, February 6, 1973

the observer
2 



·warld briefs 
(C) U7J New YorJt..tfme• 
Paris--Delegates from the Saigon government and the Vietcong met alone together in Paris for the first time. Their purpose was to prepare for the South Vietnamese political negotiations provided in the cease-fire agreements. The negotiations are to test whether the hostile sides can eventually reach a nonviolent settlement to their generation-long dispute. Both sides made a point of calling their first 
session ''preliminary.'' 
My Tho, South Vietnam--International peace-keeping teams fanned out across Vietnam Monday, but had not yet begun their work of monitoring violations of the cease-fire agreement. As the teams moved into place in seven provincial centers, it became increasingly clear that the South Vietnamese government had, in procedural matters, outmaneuvered and vitually stalemated the Communist delegates representing North Vietnam and the Vietcong. 
Washington--The White House reported that President Nixon is holding $8.7 billion in federal funds in reserve--substantially less than estimated by a Democratic congressrpan last month. Rep. Joe L. Evins. D.-Tenn., had said that impoundments, which have become the focus of the struggle betwe~n Congress and the president, totaled at least $12.2 billion. Budget department officials said that Evin's figures were incorrect. 

7:00-12:00 p.m.--mardi gras, stepan center 
ln:oo p.m.--interview, ara parseghian, tear and tell show, wsnd, 6.40 am 
7::!0 p.m.--lecture, mr. richard rosenthal, what you are worth: how to measure your present worth. future worth, and plan financially around that worth, carroll hall, smc 

Ill: nd-amc 


pla~·er. l'arphones, and two hoxesof tapes. Later that evening ,·he head phones and tapes were n•eovered form the rubbish bin outside St. Edwards Hall. while the tl'levision was found in the dri\'eway behind Zahm Hall. 
Study in Guadalajara, Mexico 
Fully accredited, 2D-year UNIVER· SITY OF ARIZONA Guadalajara Summer School offers July 2·AUIUSt 11, anthropoloay, art, education, folklo,., pocraphy, history, cov· emment, lancuace •d literature. Tuition $165; board and room $211. Write: lntematlonal Procrams, Unl· vtulty of Arizona, Tucson 85721. 

PLANNING 
TO VISIT 
BRITAIN 




BRITRAIL PASS 
NOW AVAILABLE FROM BRITRAIL'S NEW CHICAGO OFFICE 
Experience the service, 
comfort, and convenience the 
BritRail Pass can provide 
during your visit to Britain ­
and at truly economical prices. 
For your free copy of "Train 
Travel Values 1973" please 
write 
BRITRAIL TRAVEL 
INTERNATIONAL INC. 
Dept. S.N. 13 
Suite 1212 
333 N. Michigan Ave. 
Chicago, Ill. 60601 
or contact your local Travel Agent 

I "t II British Railj 

AGreat British lnvesbnent 


Tuesday, February 6, 1973 


the observer 
3 

177 women already accepted 




Admissions director describes unusual year
-

by Marlene Zloza 
freshman total has been ap­have been accepted, including 177 He also pointed out that since the Staff-Reporter proximately 1,625 and I am women. applications are running equal to assuming it will be the same this The admissions staff includes, the set ratio, "the competition 
Claiming that this is "a very vear unless I am informed of a besides Goldrick, two full-time between men and women is really unique year" for the admissions change," continued the Director of male and two full-time female very equal right now." office. Director of Admissions Admissions. This would mean a 5 . members. In recruiting this year, As far as women transfer John T. Goldrick said Monday that to 1 ratio of men to women in the they have visited coed and students. the announced quota is it is very hard to compare this class of 1977. women's high schools, in addition 125. However, since the ad­year's applicants with those of Goldrick explained that "about to all male schools. missions office did not accept previous years. twenty per cent of our applications "The reception has generally tl;ansfer applications until 
"Last year. with the unification so far have been from women and been good in all places," claimed Janua.;y, it is still too early to get with St. Mary's and then the since the projected quota for the Goldrick. Prospective women an estimate on how many will be unification. there were women freshman class is about twenty-one applicants usually ask how many received. "Most transfer ap­applving to both Notre Dame and percent. this means the ratio is women students Notre Dame has plications come in after the end of St. 1.\<iary's and not to just one or the about equal. It is still difficult to and how many are being accepted !\larch. because the most recent 
make any estimate however, this year. "They seem interested in semester grades must be in­other." explained Goldrick. (Last 

year. the Notre Dame admissions because about one-third of our the competition for admisstion and cluded," detailed Goldrick. Most department handled both ND and applications come in between the scholastic aspect, rather than transfer applications are reviewed 
Goldrick: prospective coeds are

SMC applications. l "This is really February 1 and March 15 <the final the social ratio," said Goldrick. in June and July. 
interested

the first year with us as far as in the scholastic deadline.)" Goldrick said the women applying exclusively to aspect. admissions staff will start Notre Dame." female enrollment before any reviewing regular freshmen ap­
Campuses split further as 

Recommendations released so decision was made. "I was asked plications this week and try to let far have been for 350 freshmen by one of the committees to everyone know by April 1. women for the 19723-74 school year. estimate the number of ap­In regard to the early admissions 

St. Marys loses Observer 

Goldrick stated that from what he plications we were expecting this policy. Mr. Goldrick said there is knew. many people and com­vear." he :;;aid. "no quota, we accept all qualified by Kathy Hessert the absence of the Observer butmittees had studied the question of · "For the past· two years the applicants." So far, 735 freshmen 
'Staff Reporter they noted that the quality of one on such short n()tice would be questionable. Miss Kathleen


Student coordinators announce 
Mulaney, a graduate in journalism 
The regrets are many as a vital from Marquette University and source of communication once SMC Dean of Students, says,taken for granted and easily "Without the: Observer we will find 


plans for '73 Frosh orientation 
available must now be obtained it necessary to invest through the through private subscription. With planning process in one of our own. the circulation of the Observer on "A newspaper is a valuableby George Adelo become acquainted with the Notre Saint Mary'~ campus now defunct, medium and a good experience. It

Staff Reporter Dame family in a more informal students administration and is a necessity." Mulaney later •atmosphere." 
faculty find the rift between Observer a

Dave Caruso and Dan Schipp, Where in the past orientation 
now commented, "The is 
SMC and Notre Dame ever in­valuable means of communicationstudent coordinators for the 1973 was in the hands of only one or two 

creasing. between what really is one studentFreshman Orientation have an­seniors, the incorporation of Students have questioned the community. Our office has sub­nounced the organization of a six committee this year will allow for allocation of two of their ten scribed to it." Fr. Ned Reidy said member committee to plan next smoother organization and better dollars Student Government Ac­that he was very disturbed with the year's Freshman Orientation. communication between the 

tivities fee as a source of payment discontinuance of the Observer atThe Committee will draw up parties responsible for orientation. 

for the Observer. This was SMC. ''In twenty-four hours theplans which include more par­

Schipp and Caruso stated that by unanimously voted down by the students will realize the impact the ticipation on the part of Ad: 

starting earlier this year they hope Student Assembly at their Observer once had on them. If weministration, Faculty, and Alumm to devote more time to the dif­February first meeting. The SMC must start our own newspaper itin orientating new students and to ferent aspects of orientation, so Assembly passed the following will take a while to build up."

allow in Caruso's words, "to 
. that new students and their resolution. "Due to apparent apathy One student criticized, "there is families could see a more complete prevailing in the student body no reason to sever relations more picture to the university. New regarding the use of the~observer, than we already have." Barbara female student will be treated on the assembly has made the McKiernan's main regret is the an equal basis as male fresnman decision to allow the Observer furthering of the communication students. Caruso said that they subscription to expire." gap between the two schools, plan to ask the Hall President's ve Administration and faculty see finding "football tickets the only Council to appoint hall co­mittee membership open the necessity of an SMC paper in thing left." ordinators to aid in helping new interested students. students become adjusted to the 
Committee but Caruso stated that application for membership is 

i :;:~1.~\ii:i\\\'\\\l;\l~j'.\\l.l\ University.
\:;: Schipp further stated that no open to all interested students, 

Hesburgh labels Nixon's 
especially present freshmen and

'''''""'''''''''"":''""''''''' particulars had been decided upon 
but he hoped that new students sophomores. Schipp added that he would be exposed to "more than hoped the committee would have just the academic life or just the an equal number of male and 


amnesty stand 'political'
beer keg-party atmosphere." female members. Both Caruso and Schipp are Any students interested in 
by Jim Gresser
working with the Freshman Year serving on the Orientation Com­that with the recent cease-fire in 
Staff Reporter
Office under the direction of Dean mittee should contact Dave Caruso Vietnam, a less emotional time to Emil T. Hofman. or Dan Schipp at 3378 or the decide the issue would be 
Fr. Theodore Hesburgh,
No students have been named as Student Government Office at 6111 preferable. The decision must wait 

Dan Schipp: Hall coordinators to University President, called
yet to the Orientation Planning by February 22. "until this thing (the war) is really 

aid in adjustment. President Nixon's recent 
over," Fr. Hesburgh said, and statement refusing amnesty to added that he expects to "see some VietNam War objector~ a political solution to it by next year." 
move and expressed confidenc::e


Saigon gov't. releases prisoners 
that the decision would be altered The University presidentat a later date. 
stressed that the solution must be a "reasonable one." He said that it is 


in viola_tion of Paris agreement 
Fr. Hesburgh, in an interview "not reasonable for them all to Monday, said that it was a "very face criminal charges." by Sylvan Fox agreement that deals with and pledged to support the Saigon brief, harsh statement" and that it 
(c) 1973 New York Times prisoners says that "all captured government. was "political to start with." He Fr. Hesburgh noted that only
Vietnamese military personnel, "Better to release them as new said that when there is such a wide 

after one war, Korea, did aSaigon-The S1.igon government whether regular or life cadres than in any prisoner variety . of cases under a wide president decide not to use his
has reportedly released thousands irregular ... shall be returned to exchange with the Communists," variety of circumstances, Nixon constitutional privilege to grantof military and civilian prisoners that South Vietnamese party under the official said. cannot simply make a blanket amnesty. He feels that Nixon willin the last few days, turning them whose command they served." . statement applicable to all cases . 
change his decision, which affects 
loose on their own despite As for the civilian detainees set 
It says the Vietcong and the over 80,000 Americans in prison, ,
provisions of the Paris cease-fire free. an American official said the 
South Vietnamese should ex­Saigon government "knew they Fr. Hesburgh cited the method of exile or "underground."

accord requiring that they be 
change lists of civilian political President Truman after World

turned over to North Vietnam or were going to have to release them 
the Vietcong. prisoners within 15 days after the sooner or later and decided 'why War Two as a more realistic Fr. Hesburgh affirmed hissigning of the Paris agreemtnt, alternative. Truman had
not get rid of them?' " statement of October 30, 1973 in
which took place .Jan. 27, and "do established a committee to review

South Vietnamese sources, who which he said, "the Vietnam War
their utmost" to resolve the There are no precise figures on the various cases for amnesty.

disclosed the release, said it in­is an obscenity that will probably
how many prisoners the South
problem of civilian detainees

volved some 20,000 Communist go down in history as the worst
Vietnamese government holds.
within 90 days.

prisoners of war and about the Fr. Hesburgh said that because mistake the U.S. ever made. Since same number of civilian political According to some estimates, t.he reporters at the press con­it is an obscenity, I think anyone
According to informed ob­

prisoners. there were about 35,000 Viet Cong terence last Friday asked the who stood up against it should be
servers, Saigon preferred to 
and North Vietnamese war q~estion of amnesty so directly, given a medal."

An Ameri.can official, con­release the Communist prisoners Nixon had room
prisoners in South Vietnamese "little to 

firming the development, said he and let them wander home rather maneuver."
hands before the reported release

thought the total was more like than formally returning them to Fr. Hesburgh also took issue
began. Estimates of the number of 
with Nixon, who in the same press

10,000 and that he believed all those the Vietcong command, as the peace agreement required. civilian ,political prisoners range The issue, he said, is "far from conference, took an "unmitigatedreleased were political prisoners. 
from 60,000 to 125,000. over and will certainly be opened ~lap at the Peace Corps" by calling 
up again," noting that there isn't It a "junket." Fr. Hesburgh feelsThe prisoners were each given A government official said ~ The tet lunar New Year, 

1,200 piasters (about $2.50) when freed prisoners had been declared celebrated for three days begin­"anything final in politics." that the high caliber of service of they were set free, the sources "new life cadres," meaning that ning last Saturday, is a traditional those in the Corps is not deserving said. while in captivity they had time for amnesties and the release "This is not the time to get it of such treatment from the 
The protocol to the Paris renounced the Communist cause of prisoners in Vietnam. straightened out," he said. He feels President. 
Dpinian






OBSERVER 
Philomel's Song

COMMENT 
February 6, 1973 
rick'=Jerin'=l 
wicker 



A Chance for the Senate 
New York. Feb. 5--Members of Congress are making more noise than they have in years about the n<'ed to reassert themselves as a coequal branch of government with the Presidency and the Supreme Court. It may well be too late for that, but thl're are afl'\\ things Congress could do, and one of them would h<' to insist that President Nixon submit the nanw of a man of stature and experience as the ll<'W Director of the Federal Bureau of In­vestigation. 
Patrick Gray, President Nixon's interim ap­
pointee, won't do. It may even be that the President 
is not going to nominate him for the job, one of the 
most important in government. But whether Gray's 
naml' is submitted to the Senate or not, that body 
owes it to itself and to the country to insist on a 
hettl'r nominee. 

It has the power to do so. Under the terms of the 
l!l!iR Omnibus Crime Act, the new director must be 
nominated by the President and confirmed by the 
Senate. as if he were a cabinet officer, an am­
bassador or a Supreme Court .Justice. Confirmation 
mav lw defeated or filibustered, and since the new 
director will head a huge apparatus with the power 
to affect the lives of all Americans, the Senate 
should have no hesitation in using its power to the 
necessary limit. 

Gray is not a proper nomineee primarily because of his p0litical partisanship. His background in­cludes a long history of Republican Party activity, wi-Jich is why he has had high posts in this ad­ministration--not because of the distincyion of his career outside politics. This alone would tend to make his appointment appear political--an ap­pearance sharply enhanced in last year's campaign when he made speeches favorable to the Nixon point of view. and when it was disclosed that 21 F.B.I. fil'ld offices in 14 important states were directed to supply information on criminal justice to give Nixon "maximum support" in his campaign. Earlier, (iray had said he would investigate the Soviet­American grain deal, primarily because Vice President Agnew already had claimed the in­
\'l'stigation was under way. 

Now .Judge .John .J. Sirica, before whom the 
Watergate case was tried, has bluntly criticized the 
Department of .Justice for failing to investigate 
completely or properly prosecute the matter. It is, 
of course. the F.B.I. upon whom the department 
relies for such investigations, but .Judge Sirica has 
openly expressed the hope that even a Senate 
committee will do a better job. 

It also has been reliably reported theat the F.B.I. 
daniel 
under Gray made no real investigation of the 
political espionage and sabotage activities 
allegedly planned last year by Donald H. Segretti-­
who was reported to have close links to the White 
House. In both these failures, if Gray's political 
interests were not responsible for poor F.B.I. 
performance, the public certainly had good reason 
to think they might have been. 
An openly political dTrector is bound to destroy not only the nonpartisanship that .J. Edgar Hoover largely maintained in his half-century in the post; he is certain to damage confidence in the bureau. More important, the F.B.I. can reach so far into the lives of all Americans that no administration should lmve direct political c,ontrol of it through a com­plaint director. 
But Patrick Gray already has demonstrated enough partisanship and enough willingness to Jet the F.B.I. be used politically that, even if he were confirmed as director, the Democrats would surely replace him as soon as they regained national power--and that would probably complete the process of politicizing the office. 
There are internal complaints from the bureau that Gray is not a good administrator, a decisive leader of a law enforcement professional. These are hard charges to judge without close examination, but Gray's most publicized decision-­to shoot out the tires of a hijacked airplane, leading to considerable danger for the passengers and crew­-is not reassuring. Nor can anyone make much of a ease that his is the kind of impressive and im­peccable personal stature needed if the new director and the F.B.I. are to have public con­fidence and independence from political control. 
Who would have such stature? That is up to Nixon to 'decide;, but the Senate has the right and the power to insist--as it has done in Supreme Court nominations that were scarcely less important--that Nixon choose wisely and with the public interst as his first concern. It is only in the resolute exercise of such rights, and powers that Congress will regain anything like equal standing with he executive branch. 
In this particular instance, moreover, the Senate can see to it that a man of sufficient stature finally assumes what became under ,J. Edgar Hoover on·e of the most powerful offices in the government. And while the Senators are at it, they might well study Sen. Robert Byrd's proposal that any new director be required to win Senate confirmation every four years. That might politicize the office somewhat, but it would also provide means to remove an inept or power-mad director. 
Impounding Funds 
W>sh.ngton. Feb. 4-At his news conference last Wednesday President Nixon was asked, "How do you respond to criticism that your impoundment of funds abrogates power or authority that the Con­stitution gave to Congress?" 
"The same way that .Jefferson did and .Jackson did and Truman did." the President replied. 
At the \\'hite House they take the view that Congress has already tacitly recognized the President's right to impound appropriated funds. 
Congress did so according to that view when it pass( a bill last October to raise the national debt limit to $465 billion. The bill contained a provision requiring the President to promptly provide Congress with full information on impounded funds. 
Congress thus seemed to concede that funds could 
he impounded although the legislative branch has to 
he notified. 
That bill contair.ed no procedure for Congress to override -the President on impoundments. However. 51 Senators have now signed a bill to require congressional consent. 
Incidentally, some people at the White House use the term ·•saving out" rather than "impoundment." 
They say impoundment is incorrect because it implies that the1 withheld money will be released and spent later. That, they assert, is not the President's intention.
~ The confidence of the administration that it can
, defeat Congress on the spending issue is reinforced by a feeling of disdain for Congress as an institution for its present leadership.
[ Nixon said on Wednesday that "This Congress has not been responsible on nf10ney ." He added that there is only one place in this government where somebody has got to speak not for the special in­
terests which the Congress represents but for the general interest." Of course that one place is, in the President's view. the White House. 
In the White House they have no confidence that Congress can do what the President feels is necessary -that is, set an over-all spending limit and stay within it. All it takes is will power, a member of the Cabinet remarked the other day, but Congress does not have it. 
Congress is like a family in which every member "plans his own spending individually," President Nixon remarked in his budget message last Mon­day.. Contrasted with the inertness of Congress there is what one White House official calls the "dynamism" of the presidency. Presidential ac­tions are very hard to stop, whatever the issue or whoever the president. 
Nixon is relying, however, not only on his own dynamism in the dispute with Congress but also on what he calls "the expressed will of the people." The Presillent promised in the 1972 election cam­paign that he would not propose any tax increases if re-elected, and he regards that promise as a part of the mandate he received. When his budget message was ready he presented it first to the people in a radio talk and not to the Congress as is cultomary. 
Congressmen and senators were reminded in turn that they also had a mandate not to increase taxes. 
Nixon told his news conference on Wednesday that he had checked on all those who had run for office in November and had not found one member of congress "who had campaigned on the platform of raising taxes in order that we could spend more." 
It appears time to add my piece to The Great Women Off-Campus 
Debate. OF it can be called a debate--one side seems to have main­
tained a considered silence since making necessary a protracted 
rebuttal; I hardly think it a lesson in practical Zen). 
Previous reactions against Riehle's Rule have centered around ideological considerations that are out of place in this university, where the practical reigns supreme. But there are practical solutions available, and these fully in keeping with the rationale behind Riehle's Hule. Before setting these forth, I do want to point out two items from the 1972-73 Student Manual under the title University Regulations section R<Off-Campus Students). Firstly, the designation "student" is in this section nowhere qualified by any sexually descriptive ad­jective. Secondly, I merely quote <for the ironic contrast it affords) University Regulation 8: "It is the official policy of the University community not to tolerate discrimination in any way." 
But this way lies madness. Amurikin practicality is what is wanted, and it is practicality what I've in mind. Since the sole apparent reason for women oneampus isvisibility," why should it not be possible for women to provide equally visible substitutes to take their place on campus. allowing them to move off, much in the manner of Civil War draft evasion? These surrogates would be equally visible and equally of the female persuasion (a consideration obviously high among l{iehle's priorities l; Riehle would be sated in his Quest for aesthetic beauty on campus, and women students would, at least to some extent, he regarded as women students. The fate of the substitutes, however, remains uncertain. 
As we are on the subject of what should be visible on campus, to eonnote to the casual visitor <NBC? I the nature of Notre Dame, may I suggest certain other possibilities? Granted the nature of the in­stitution, I think it only logical that, in addition to women, we make the presence of jocks on campus mandatory. I do not mean athletes, mind you; I refer to jocks per se. These useful devices play fully as large a role in Notre Dame life as the Notre Dame Woman <as it is put>--and parts of the University community at large regard each as fulfilling a somewhat similar task. Perhaps we could hang them on the crosspieces of our myriad crucifixes. yes, and we could stand a woman beneath each construction. I hardly think that thie would overstate the message to our visitor, nor that the medium is over the mark. Other suggestions that occur to me in pursuing this theme border on the legally obscene, and would no doubt tax the genius of Kubik and his fellow massive artists of the architecture department; in any case, this is not the place to recount them. But back to the subject. 
University moralists may object to the "visible substitute" plan outlined above, on the grounds that it is a formof servitude and unlawful under the XIII Article of Amendment. Certainly, though, it could at least be implemented as a stopgap measure while the question was being considered in the courts. In the event that the courts should ultimately decide in favor the the moral position -the question may present some novel legal problems <Notre Dame seems to he making a conscious effort to establish itself as a leader in novel questions of personal liberty) There is no certain way of predicting the courts' final decision--in that event, there is anothersolutionat our disposal. 
In lieu of furnishing actual substitutes, women who wish to move off­campus could first be required to secure one of the "lifelike plastic dummies" advertised in some of the campus's higher circulation magazines. These dummies, to enlighten the few who have neglected this vital part of their Notre Dame experience, are (according to manufacturer's claims) perfect replicas of woman; and if we take as ex cathedra Father Riehle's apparent definition of woman, e may well believe these claims. It is obvious that the installation of these ob­jects around campus would fulfill the goal of visibility even better than their less stalwart, merely human counterparts. There would be, firstly, a higher visibility rate--the dummies could be stationed out of doors and never require to be inside and out of sight for such mundane and relatively "invisible ' activities as sleeping, warming, bathing, 
etc. Secondly, their expression would not be subject to the vicissitudes of student mood; their faces are permanently endowed with a glance pleasing to the apprehending eye. They will smile cheerfully and slightly seductively even in the depths of finals week. Other advantages undoubtedly exist, but will become apparent only after experimentation with this plan. • 
In sum. it would seem that all the ideological fuss over the off­campus woman has been unnecessary; we have at our disposal the necessary practical means to correct the situation, to the gratification of all concerned.!( it were not for one nagging doubt, I should urge the immediate adoption of this second plan. We know what Riehle wants; we know what the women want; but we've neglected to consider the position of the dummies, who may well refuse to be degraded to the staus of women in Riehle's World. 
the observer 

Managing Editor: Joe Abell 
News Editor: Anthony Abowd 
Editorial Editor: Jerry Lutkus
•

Features Editor: Beth Hall 
Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson 
Associate Editors: Bob Higginns, Ed ellis 
Special Projects Editor: Dan Barrett 
Night Editor: Kathy Schwille Ass't Night Editor: Robert Baker Layout: Rod Braye Sports Night Editor: Vic Dorr Typists: Barb Norcross, Steve Roper, Howard Halle, Tom Modglin Night Controller: John Flannigan 
Editorials printed in The Observer reflect the opinion o·f the writer on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial comment. 
'· 
Tue~day, February 6, 1973 the observer 
5 



is tae kwon do the super karate? 
mike Iilienthal 

It has come to my attention that Tai Kwon Do <Korean Karate) is super karate and that it is the ultimate in self-defense. That is at (past what Dong Sik Kim, the master instructor of the Notre Dame Tai Kwon Do Club states in his membership campaign. The Webster's dictionary defines super as "a prefix of superiority" and super gives 
eonnotations of a comic book character ereated in -1938 who came from the planet Krypton <not Korea l. Ultimate is likewise defined as "beyond which it is impossible to proceed". It would seem that Tai Kwon Do is the best martial art of themall (according to Mr. Kiml. There are many schools around the 
eountry that advertize just as Mr. Kim does. I mvself have been a student of the martial arts.for the past three years. I have not only studied Tai Kwon Do but Tang Soo Do (a different karate) and Jii.J-jitsu<Chinese self­defense). I have seen many beginners who are taken in by the supposed mystique of karate. they think they will covet for themselves the secret way to destroy anyone. Some have the gall to exude an air of overconfidence and invulnerability after having just planked down their money for the semester and have received a nicely l'mhroidered membership card. How can a beginner <white belt> espouse expertise in an art that takes a lifetime to understand and perfect. Ueshiba, the master of Aikido, refused to take a national teaching position at Japan·s top university because"From the ocean of knowledge I have not yet been able to fill a thimble". Think of how little knowledge any of us beginners have com­pared to this man who devoted his entire life to the arts. 
"ptmch power" 

When a beginner ''shows off " h~s is showing off his ignorance. A true karate man does not need to prove himself to others. But Americans seem to often try to see how good a martial artist really is. For anyone who is taking the ultimate in self­dPfense I feel sorry. Such a student doesn't know his own lack of knowledge and can be badly beaten. stabbed or shot. Doing well in the controlled environment of a dojo <karate gym l doesn't prove your worth against an opponent on the street. 
If anyone is eonsidering taking karate, please ask the instructor what to do when YOU are knocked down in a fight. Karate doesn't teach any ground work like in judo or jiujitsu. There is a basic assumption that YOU are far enough away from your op­~lonent initially so that you will have time to kick or strike him before he can force you to the ground. You can develop this timing and "punch power" but it takes time (years not months). 
techniques 

Another assumption during the formal exercises of karate (kata and one-steps) believes that every technique will work. Many combination techniques assume kicks and blows will stun or stop a man momentarily so that a followup strike can finish him off. Some novices play at karate. They will hit an opponent who wrestles them to the ground. To regain pride the young martial artist will say "if I had hit you full power you would have been knocked out. 
This person is fooling himself. A beginner <anyone below brown belt> should realize that a kick to the solar plexus or even the groin may not stop a man. I have seen a street fight in which the "more highly trained" 6th degree black belt kicked a black belt of a lower rank in the groin and did not drop him. The sixth dan ended up with a broken jaw and a large dental bill. 
armed assailants 

Just studying an empty handed art is great but it is not a catch-all for self­defense. You may have eventually learned the defense against an unarmed assailant, but how about against one who has a gun, dub. knife. chair, or beer bottle. It would seem that in order to ward off such an at-· tacker one must be skilled in weapons. If ~·ou know the versatility of the opponent and his weapons, you will be better prepared to defend yourself. 
During this Christmas break, I studied with a black belt in judo. When we free sparred I threw a turning back kick, a kick he had never encountered before. He tried to block but ended up with a bloody mouth. lie didn't defend himself well because he had not encountered such an attack before and was not expecting it. A karateka often falls into the trap of knowing how to fight in a special formal manner. The fight begins with a bow to the adversary, he gets into a righting stance, and begins on command from the instructor. I once fought a green belt in Japanese karate. While fighting I ~·l'lled the japanese equivalent of stop, he stopped and I knocked him out. I have seen this happen before. this good karateman had not been trained in self-defense his mind was trusting <it is easy to influence people). 
board breaking 
There is nothing mystical about karate. Karate is often connected with board breaking. It looks impressive. But with less than an hour of training I could teach almost anyone to break a board of No. 1 pine. I can break a stack of cement slabs ap­proximately 6 inches thick with an open hand strike. This supposedly means I can hrl'ak anymajorbone in a person's body. This does not mean that I have found the ultimate in self-defense. A person is not going to stand around and wait for me to hit him. When a person is angry and attacks nw he is concentrating on hitting me and is ignoring the pain I am inflicting on him <unless it kills him instantly). When you are concentrating on reading Playboy, you are not aware of the music of the radio playing in vour room. Likewise total committment to destroying your opponent can prevent you from stopping even though you have a fractured rib. When you are fighting for ~·oun•xperience, I have fou even though you have a fractured rib. When you are fighting for ~·our life a broken rib is a small price to 
pa~·. 

From my experience, I have fought a sl'eond degree black belt who side kicked ml' in the ribs and knocked me across the gym. I was so mad that he got beyond my cll'fense that I got up immediately and rharged. him. He stopped me asking me if I was alright; I realized how much pain I was in and dropped to the floor. On the street my opponent would have been so stunned by the fact that I got up from his most powerful kick that I would have won the fight. 
teach the realities 
A karate instrucor should thus, teach the realities of his art and not try to fool his students into thinking that they have it all. Karat£' is a great art to begin training for self-defense and it is effective much of the 


tommy is not for the symphony 
eorrect amount of confidence in his students and show them the limitations of their abilities. 
Every time, I free spar with my instructor I find out that I'm a good karate man but there are years of training ahead of me. I hope Mr. Kim will understand this because he may be training his students for a fight also hope that Mr. Kim's students will realize that Mr. Kim is not the master in­structor <"master instructor" doesn not mean that one is a master of all karate only of a particular school) at Harvard or any of the other schools listed on his brochure. Mr. Kim's brother is the master instructor at Harvard. 
Once in a long while, somebody or group of somebodies creates something that is considered to be a milestone in the field in 
which it was created. The Who's 1969 release of Tommy was one of these creations. 
It was a totally new conception of rock music: the rock opera (though it wasn't the Who that gave it that title), a single story told completely with rock music, a rock album conceived as a single entity .with a single, unified purpose. A few imitations soon followed. but they remained of no consequence. It took almost a full year and a half for Andrew Lloyd Webber and Tim Rice to match the impact of Tommy with their extravaganza, Jesus Christ, Superstar, an impact that one suspects has largely to do with Superstar's subject matter as opposed to Tommy's originality. 
remakes 
Unfortunately, where there are people who make bigger and better rock operas, there are people who are determined to make bigger and better remakes of rock operas. Hence, this new version of Tommy by the London Symphony Orchestra and Chambre Choir with a list of soloists that 

would make a dj drool. 
Superstar 
Rather than discuss the advantages and disadvantages of remade musical recor­dings, I'll just point out that a remake of Superstar, remade by the Broadway cast and released last year, has managed to get that particular work in the Grammy nomination list two years running. 
But somehow, Superstar cannot be the primary comparison for Tonpny. In fact, it really can't be compared at all, for Superstar wasn't written for a rock band, but for a band, orchestra and a hell of a lot of other junk. Tommy was written for a rock band. a four-roan rock band; specifically, the Who. 
This then is the crux of the problem: that 
Tommy is basic rock music, where 
Superstar· is rock music purposely enhanced 
with other things. And here is where' the 
problem of translation comes in. The at­
tempt to translate basic rock music into 
another form, that of orchestra music, just 
doesn't work. There's something missing-­
the sheer excitement of the original Tom­
my's rock. Pete Townshend's thrilling 
guitarwork has become little more than a 
swirlling violin section; John Entwistle's 
intricate bass lines a few solitary thumpings 
on bass. And so on. 

This doesn't mean to say that the record 
doesn't have it's beautiful moments. It 
does; quite a few of them. Wil Malone's 
arrangement of "Amazing Journey" was 
quite effective, a notable exception to the 
rest of the album's translation: "We're Not 
Gonna Take It" is also very .effective, 
especially when the again-retreating 
Tommy pleads for the crowd to ','See me, 
Feel me. Touch me: Heal me." 
joseph abel/ 
A few of the guest soloists shine on the recording also, most notably Maggie Bell as Tommy's mother, Richie Havens as the Hawker, Merry Clayton as the Acid Queen and Ringo Starr as Uncle Ernie. Their own singing styles did a great deal to enhance the characterizations. The three Who members who showed up <Keith Moon's missing> essentially repeat their roles from the original. 
Waste of talent 
The others would have had similar 
recognition, probably, if the orchestra had 
let them. For some reason, they sound like 
they were placed in the middle of the or­
chestra, and not even raspy Rod Stewart's 
voice can top the entire London Orchestra. 
Particularly miscast was Steve Winwood as 
Tommy's father. On top of his lightweight 
voice. his own particular style, as opposed 
to everybody else's, was not allowed a 
chance to show itself because ofthe songs he 
had to sing. And that was a sore waste of 
talent. 
Beyond that, there's not much to say. Turning electric guitars into cornets and trombones just doesn't work; rock music isn't supposed to be "lush." Turning im­perfect. untrained rock band voices into a Chambre Choir doesn't work either; it only makes the original rock lyrics sound silly, sung in such a grand lofty manner. 
In a word, pretty. but I'll take the original. 
IIIIIIIIIUIUIIHIHI.IMIII-IIIIIIIIUIUHIIIIII 
Tommy 
The London Symphony Orchestra and 
Chambre Choir with Guest Soloists 
Ode SP99001 
$12.98 list 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIDIIIIIIII-IIIWIIIIIIIIIIIII 

Tuesday, February 6, 1973
6 the observer 

Letters••• ... on security et al 
burglarizing rooms with the tacit approval of security.
Security On Saturday night, both the Observer 1and Student Union of­fices were burglarized. Jim 
I-:ditor: Schneid, the Student Union 
1-~or as long as I have be~n at director says that his office is Notre Dame the relationship regularly broken into and ran­between the Notre Dame security sacked: he considers it an utter 
dt•partment and the student body waste of time to even bother has been. to say the least, tense. reporting these incidents to (;pnerallv, the students have been security.blamed:' someone is always 
Early in the semester,. the complaining about the abuse the security department distributed a st-curity officers take from the placard instructing· the students 
students. I will never try to justify how to obtain an ambulance in the abuse and villification which is case of an emergency. About half aimed at the guards as in­
way through the last semester, one 
dividuals: however I think it is of the students who patrol the obvious what provokes this. parking lots was seriously hurt byThe rect-nt armed robbery is yet a hit-and-run driver. Security was 
another incident indicative of the c<llled for an ambulance as the 

gt•neral incompetence of the N.D. placards indicated; one showed upst-curity force. Let us look at what about a half hour later. happened in Alumni. Three rob­This year there have been 
hers armed· in Alumni. Three numt•rous hold-ups, purse snat­
robbers armed with a loaded hand chings. muggings, etc. on the gun took about $70.00 from some campus. The results have almost Alumni residents after binding and invariably been the same; a reportgagging several of them. As they is filed and forgotten.made their escape several shots Often. a shortage of funds is wPre fired at pursuing students. given as the reason Notre Dame What does it take to wake up the lacks an effective security force; llniversity? A murder or two? given the budgetary limitations, 
Well. vou cannot come much Notre Dame cannot afford to hire 

doser. ·A very serious, dangerous full time, competent guards. I do 
felony took place within shouting not think that the terrified students distance of the guard shack at the bound and gagged in Alumni with a circle. However the security loaded gun pointed at them would 
dPpartment was able to do nothing have found this very persuasive. to either stop or prevent it. First South Bend is a relatively small vear law student Terry McGann community with no large criminal 
\,·as on the phone telling security element; furthermore Notre Dame about the incident while the rob­is located outside of the town. That bers were still within sight. At a student may not occupy his first. the officer on the phone only dormitory room without fear of l'xpressed disbelief. Then, once death or serious bodily harm is 
convinced. he belabored McGann inexcusable. Security should do two things: that is not fall under some other description of things as they are. with technicalities such as his The ability of the Notre Dame protect the community, and be department: that of criminal Every man deserves respect for name, the number of robbers, their security force to issue parking prepared to handle any activity, and, one for which his conscientious opinion. But in description. etc. Instead of trying tickets is legendary. However, Mr, emergencies which might arise. everyone should be prepared, to the sphere of "ought" versus "is," to apprehend the robbers, the Pt-ars and his group hold them­Protecting the community is a two­give first aid. For the first point, I do not aspire to be a Christian guard Terry spoke to was only selves out to be a security force. fold responsibility. First, they Security carries no effective witness in the terms prescribed, interested in filling out a form. Their inability to provide adequate must protect the rights of the weapons with which to control nor can I pretend to the role of a Tt-rry and other observers think security is evident; this is a members of the community. criminal activities. particularly of "grace" in the local morality play. 
that the robbers may have been Secondly, they must protect the persons who come on to campus
situation which any reasonable 
apprehended if the security property of the community. In for such purposes. Even if they did 
man would no longer tolerate. The problem with the "witness"
department had acted with being prepared for emergencies, carry such weapons, they would
Notre Dame has no security force; motif is that the arguments which
they should have the training and not know how to properly use them

dispatch. it has a group of men whose only equipment to handle emergency judging from their past per­have been propounded about it not Students who have been around objective is to issue parking situations whether they arise from formances. As for the second part, only fail to convince, they bore. AsN.D. for a while were, I am sure, citations and keep cars off for "grace," I honor high ideals 
not the least bit surprised by this campus. wanton agression or acciedntal we have luckily had no opportunity and wich everybody well in finding
cuases. to test the training of Security. Idisplay. In a University which The only solution I can envision Under their first responsibility of only hope that either they have some which suit him. This onejustifiably prides itself on its ex­would entail complete Even so, I
cellence the security department reorganization under new, proven protecting the community, such training, or will initiate a merely fails to suit me. 
Security has failed drastically. program to obtain such training see no conflict between idealism
stands out as a study in administrators; the security 
First. in the Lewis Hall incident, immediately. and a reasonable wage. Neithermt•diocrity. if not absolute in­
department cannot be made ef­Security perpetrated gross did Leo XIII of blessed memory, a
It isobviousthat something needs competency. This armed robbery fective by half way measures. violations of the involved student's to be done about Arthur Pears' man. alas, seldom honored sois not the first example of the work 
of that and, I am rights. as protected by both the Security <in their present state, much in action as by lip.
department Brian P. Short disciplinary code and the United "Insecurity" might be more apU.
afraid it won't be the last. Over the First Year Law State Constitution <although If Mr. Pears cannot improve his Unfortunately little of thelast few vears there have been Security was not the only guilty force. maybe the administration plaindealing on such subjects ast-xamples • just as glaring but party in this caper}. Under the should consider improving the the faculty's role as Christianthankfully. not as dangerous. Last Security Again second part of protecting the quality in the office. ' witnesses and the grim hypocrisy vear a student was the victim of an 

community, fhey ·have not. taKeu of Christian community here ever~1rmed robbery on the 9th floor of this responsibility seriously, a fact passes from behind closed doors,(;race. Two years ago, 283 Dillon Editor: which is testified to by the recent where it plentifully exists, into a
llall was burglarized and some Clark Jones
Over the past few weeks, Arthur rash of robberies <I know of at public forum. Were more private
money stolen. The culprits were Freshman. SCPP
Pears has taken considerable least two more which happened candors openly expressed, the
followt•d to their house, security Pangborn Hall
verbal punishment from many this evening}. If Security were to tedious cant of these subjects could was brought down and the kids 
sources on campus. and this take this responsibility seriously, provoke the good laugh they\\We positively identified. The punishment is not without cause. there are many things which they deserve and be disposed of per­investigating officer said that he In fact. much more would seem in could do to increase the protection, manetly so we could get on with the 
~ had had contact with these same order. As head of Security, his job such as having more people Unions important work of learning andkids before <he knew their names) is to see that Security functions patroling the halls, especially teaching.
t for the very same crime. He properly. There is much to during the evening hours, and not 
I 
assurl'd us we would be contacted evidence that he has not been having these men going on a fixed after an investigation. Needless to keeping the campus very secure. schedule. Editor: 
Sincerely,
say. no one was ever contacted and In fact. there are even instances in As for being prepared, there are I heartily second Prof. Walter 
Leslie H. Martin no IT'oney' ever returned. Those which Security has been the cause really only two areas in which Davis' sentiments regarding 
Associate Professor
l l{id:-: are probably still freely ofproblems on campus. Security has a real responsibility unionization as well as his sensible 

The War 
Editor:

~~NR. ?RGSI06Ni?.. 
/ J EXcvse H4 SIR, T.S. Eliot wrote once: "The last BUT HR. 8R&ZHNell temptation is the greatest treason;IS ON 'THe: tiN£'. He To do the right deed for the wrong
WR/1/15 TO fJISCtJ.SS A 
reason." Maybe some of the 
/-leN StJHMIT H6~11N6 
numbness in the air now that the
70 e:AS£ !VORL/? /eNS!()!'/.. 
Vietnam war is officially over 
I \peace masses and pealing church bells notwithstanding} comes from a suspicion that for the man now vested with four more years of the l 'residency, that last temptation might have been just too great. 
Pat Roach 346 Morrissey 




~--------------------------~--------, 
Tuesday, February 6, 1973 the observer 
7 

Ex narcotics agent indicted on drug charges 
Sr. John Miriam Jones and Susan Roberts: Need for only one person in the Office of itssistant to the Provost. 
Placement Bureau revises spring job interveiw dates 
by James Markham 
(C) 1973· New Yort Tim~s 
New York,--The Principal Federal Narcotics agent in the celebrated "French Connection" case of 1962--who has been working as an east side bartender and as an inverstigator for crimewriters-­has been indicted on charges of selling heroin and cocaine, federal authorities announced today. 
The former agent, Franci Waters. resigned from the now­defunct Federal Bureau of Nar­cotics in 1967 at the beginning of a house-cleaining operation that ended with several score resignations and a half-dozen t•orruption indictments. 
Roberts resigns from consUltant position 
by Jim Gresser Staff Reporter 

Susan Roberts, an ad­ministrative consultant hired by 
Waters, who sued the author and producers of "The French Con­nection'' film for portraying him as a dull-witted investigator, was accused in the indictment of conspiring to deal in drugs from 1968 to now. 
Daniel P. Casey, regional director of the Bureau of Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs, said in­verstigaors were trying to determine whether the heroin that the former agent was allegedly retailing had possibly come from the police department property clerk's offices. 
The department has disclosed that 261 pounds of heroin-most of it seized in the "~ren$!h Connection" case--and 137 pounds of cocaine 
Dean Mayors Staff Reporter 

The Placement Bureau has published a revised list of qates for on-campus job interviews. Ac­cording ·to Richard Willemin, director of placement, these lists should be used for the remainder of the spring semester instead of those published in the Placement 1\lanual last fall. 
The revised lists contain date<: for interviews from approximately one hundred fifty employers who will be represented by more than two hundred eleven interviewers. Interviews began on February 1 and should continue throughout the spmester. slackening off sompwhat after the midsemester hrpak. 
Willemin commented yesterday that employers are again in­tPrviewing students in almost all degrees and disciplines. He con­tinued. "The list of employers covers major companies in business, industry, and govern­ment." 
Willemin added that the revised 
lists of interview dates are con­
tained in a revised edition of the 
Placement aManual for 1972-1973 
that should already be in the hands 
of students who have registered 
with the Placement Bureau. He 
stated. "We mailed manuals last 
week to approximately 800 
students who had registered with 
our Bureau. Both campus and off-the Office of the Provost. resigned her position at the end of last semester, according to Sr..John 1\liriam .Jones, assistant to the Provost. 
campus residents should have 
rPceived their manuals as of last 
Monday." 

Willemin noted also that 
students who are interested in 
scheduling interviews with 
prospective employers but do not 
have a revised list of interview 
dates should register with the 
Placement Bureau in order to 
recPive their manuals. 

broken band on Fri. 1-19-73. Great
~ ~RDI GRAS SPECIAL 
sentimental value, and 1 gold 110op earring with design. Lost Tt1us. 1-18-73 afternoon in vicinity of Soutil dining hall. II found call -1873.
e SOUTHERN 
Found: wire-rimmed glasses 
with case, call 1046.
~~.-COMFORT $6.37 fifth 
If you have my purple clutch 
\~I 

purse please just send me the 2
~~~ Coupon good only at 
tickets to The Maiic Flute in Bloomington. 245 Badin Hall, 6947
Town & Country Liquor Riverpark Liquor 
Kathy. 
T & C Shopping Center 2411 Mish. Ave. 

PERSONAL
llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 

9 days in Spain and Paris $279 plus tal< and service Call Chris -291­1741 ­
Buses to O'Hare 
Need riders to Kent State this weekend. Call Ken 8810.
Leave 3 I 9 3 : 0 0 p m f r o m C i r c Ie Return '3 I 1 8 8 : 0 0 p m f r ,o m 
OBSERVER
0 'Hare Tickets on sale now in Travel 
ADS 
Bureau located in Badin Hall 
GET 
RESULTS
All Sales Final
L------_j 
were stolen from the police property clerk's office. 
The earliest date, for the disappearance of some of the narcotics that the police have mentioned is 1969. 
Waters is accused of funneling drugs to a former Baltimore-based narcotics official. Charles R. McDonnell. who was jailed in 1971 after having been convicted of income-tax evasion and selling heroin to an undercover agent. 
McDonnell. who had been adeputy regional director of the Federal Bureau of Drug Abuse Control. was named as a co­conspirator but not as a defendant in the new indictment, indicating that he may testify against his 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
former  colleague  and  alleged  
collaborator.  
McDonnell  was  freed  from  

prison late last year after having serveda little more than one-fourth of his four-year sentnece. 
Casey said that McDonnell had sold the 1.1 pounds of heroin to an undercover agent in .July, 1968, but that it was not until last week that evidence was presented to a grand jury leading back to Waters. A five-year statute of limitations governs federal narcotics cases. 
Waters, who joined the Narcotics Bureau in 1956, held the title of 
NOTICES 
Camp Wayne: childrens coed summer camp NE Pennsylvania. 3 hrs NYC & Phila. Counselors who like children with specialties in sports, water, arts, & science activities. Sign-up room 207, Administration Bldg. Write 633 Barnard Ave., Woodmere N Woodmere NY 11598. 
Electric guitar (harmony 2 pick­ups), amplifier; both tor $50, 3866. 
Fun clothes made to order.  New  
styles.  Reasonable prices.  Call  
Kathy 234-4547.  

N D Students and Faculty! Car trouble? Complete car care done by expert mechanics at 10 percent ott parts and labor! (oil changes, tune-ups, etc.) Call 
Rollin' Wheel's Sunoco 17955 State Road 23, 272-9676 (across from Green wood's Shopping Center). 
A BETTER CHOICE IS LIFE 
FOR THE UNBORN CHILD 
CONTACT BIRTHRIGHT. INC. 
IN SOUTH BEND. P 0. BOX 824 OR CALL 289-1034. 
Before you buy a diamond learn all the facts, it may save you a qreat deal. Call James 3118. 
Need $20·$150., Borrow from Morrissey Loan Fund. La Fortune basement. Monday thru Friday 11:15 12:15. 
Detroit bus signups for mid semester, Easter. $12 Round trip. 1721. 
SUNNY CALIFORNIA OVER SPRING BREAK FOR ONLY $130? We're trying to get a quick estimate of the number in­
terested. Please call a sap. 
TONY MOLINA 8282, 1·2pm or 11­
12 pm. 
Ride to and back from Columbus Ohio this weekend. Leave Friday 
12:30. Call Greg 1521. 
FOR INFORMATION ABOUT THE GAY AWARENESS COMMUNITY, CALL 7789, W-TH F 8·10 pm. 
MUST SELL 10-SPD BIKE. EX­CELLENT CONO. CALL 1791 
supervJsmg agent--roughly 
comparable to a lieutenant in the 
police--at the time of his 
resignation in December, 1967. 
McDonnell had worked with 
Waters in New York Before being 
shifted to Baltimore. 
In late 1961, Waters was assigned 
as liaison man to the police 
department in what became known 
as the "French Connection" case. 
Waters was offended by Robin 
Moore's book on the case, which 
pictured him as a thick-headed. 
skeptical agent, in contrast to 
detective Edward R. Egan--who 
was portryaed as quick-witted and 
eager to take risks to advance the 
case. 
Although he and Egan had been good friends, Waters in 1969 initiated a lawsuit against Moore and his publishers for damages. In Novermber. 1971, with the ap­pearance of the highly successful film--which shows a fictive Waters being killed by an equally fictive Egan--the retired agent escalated his claims. asking for $5 milli_on. 
Tonight the 43-year-old Waters was trying to raise funds to meet a $50,000 bail set in Federal Court. He will enter a plea to the in­dictment Monday. 
SUMMER JOBS 
Guys·& Gals needed for summer 
employment at National Parks, 
Private Camps. Dude Ranches 
and Resorts throughout the na­
tion. Over 35,000 students aided 
last year. For Free information on 
student assistance program send 
self-addressed STAMPED enve­
lope to Opportunity Research, 
Dept. SJO. 55 Flathead Dnve, 
Kalispell, MT 59901. . ... YOU MUST APPLY EARLY .. 

-
-
' 
Roberts' decision to regign was "based on a prior decision on our part that the offke of Assistant to the Provost did not have a need for two people." Sr..Jones said. 
Both Roberts and Sr ..Jones were hired at the beginning of the current school year to handle problems associated with Notre Dame's decision to admit female undergraduate students. 
"I have no comment other than to say that I resigned for purely professional reasons," Roberts said from her home in Ed­wardsburg. Michigan. 
The actmimstrat1ve consultant was offered a position in the Placement Office under Richard Willemin. She did not accept this position. 
Sr..Jones explained the decision to reduce her office to only one person was made because she could handle the "responsibility of the office now." She added that there might be a need for an ad­ditional person "within a few years." 
"We felt we weren't utilizing Susan's talents," Sr..Jones con­tinued. adding that "she has made man:Y valuable contributions to the university, especially in the area of coeducation." 
University Provost Fr..James Burtchaell had no comment on the Hoberts resignation but did say that "she was a marvelous help to the university." Burtchaell noted specifically her work on last year's committee on coeducation. 

WhAT'S TlJE RELiGiOUS LiFE Lil{E? 
Ask the /Men Who 1rlnow 
Contact: Fr. Andrew Cifemi, 0. Praem. 
Holy Cross Hall, 107 UND 
tele: 283·6185 

WANTED 
Need two $5.50 Santana tickets. Call 1992. 
Wanted: a go-cart any condition. 232·0550. 
Several men needed immediately for telephone sales work. Hourly wage. For more information call 288-6026. 
Need weekend ride to ride to St. Louis. Leave Thurs. Dennis 1548. 
FOR RENT 
Rooms & kitchen. Near. $40 mo. 233 1329. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost -ND miniature ring on St. Mary's campus. Of extreme personal value. Reward. Call ~949 or 233-4398. 
Lost· ladies gold watch with 
rr 
~­
, 
• 
Tuesday, February 6, 1973
the observer
8 

Irish cagers scorch Butier, 89-62 
Novak, 'Shue,' Brokaw bully visitors as Irish reach 9-9 mark 
comeback. Shumate, with a short 
game was another drama-sarved Bulldogs, while guard Gary twelve second-half points, most of
by Lefty Ruschmann 

jumper and layup, hiked his
performance with the stronger and Brokaw a)so returned to top form them from inside. Allocco who 
team's lead to 46-28. Dwight Clay 
Notre Dame's basketball team quicker Irish dominating play to contribute to the rout. saw extensive action last night as 
followed Marty Monsarez' foul
found reaching the .500 mark at the almost from the outset. coach Digger Phelps' number-­
with a bank shot and Kent Ehret
expense of Butler University ~s "Goose," the game's leading three guard, impressed at times 
hit a baseline shot to make it 48-31,
easy a task as it proved to be with his quickness and hustle.
The Notre Dame front line. led scorer with 23 points 01-16 from but that was Butler's last scoringagainst the Dayton Flyers, as they 
by.John Shumate and "Goose" the floor> sparkled in the first half, Once again Irish fans got a good
for over four minutes as the Irishcoasted past the Bulldogs, 89-62, 
Novak, enjoyed yet another scoring eighteen points, most of streaked for eight unanswered look at the coach Phelps' bench aslast night at the ACC. For the productive evening against the them on sweeping hook shots and tallies on Novak's drivi~g layup the starting lineup exited with five home crowd of however the 
turnaround jumpers. Big "Shue" minutes to go and ND firmly in
and tip-in Brokaw's fast break
dropped in 22 points on the strength the lead. 76-51. Willie Townsend
layup and feed to the driving
of 9-12 field goal shooting, and delighted those fans wno stayed,
Dwight Clay. 
hauled in a total of 14 rebounds--his scoring two buckets in his ab­fifth double figure night in suc­With the Irish in control, 56-31 breviated stint on the floor. l'ession in that department. midway through the period, both Brokaw also tallied 22 points on 8 of sides experienced fits of The Fighting Irish will get 14 from the field and (;-s from the raggedness. committing turnovers another shot at breaking the .500 
charity stripe, and figured and failing to clear. the boards. barrier tomorrow night against the prominently on both ends of the The helter-skelter action featured Spartans of Michigan State, here fast break which Notre Dame the performances of two reserves, at the ACC. Another home en­l'mployed with great effectiveness. Phil Cox of Butler and Notre counter is slated for Saturday 
Dame's Frank Allocco. Cox, a afternoon. a televised contest freshman forward and former with La Salle University of 
After .Jeff Williams' 20-foot 
Indiana "Mr. Ba~ketball," scored Philadelphia.
jumper gave the Bulldogs their only lead of the game at 2-0, the Irish attack went to work against 
ND swimmers split
Butler's man-to-man press. Shumate canned a backboardshot by Pete McHugh University was a most gracious Novak sank a hook ana banker and host--allowing the Irish to capture Shumate dropped in a Novak pass Venturing from the friendly first and second place in the for an 8-2 Irish advantage. confines of Rockne Memorial Pool opening six events, while eighteen 
the Irish swimmers salvaged ~ swimmers went on to score for the Irish.
Clarence Crain interupted with a split in weekend meet action by 
short jump shot, but Shumate submarining Bradley University75-The rout began with a Notre :l8 Saturday. following a 63-50 loss DamP victory in the 400 yard
followed with a foul shot and 
to Northern Illinois on Friday. medley relay (Thompson. .Jim
Brokaw scored on the fast break 
Fischer. Ed Strack, Kane). In themaking it 11-4. Clay and Novak Against Northern Illinois 1000 yard freestyle .John Sherk and 
then asnwered Kent Ehret's fourteen swimmers scored for th~ Andy Wallach placed 1-2.
outside goal to put Notre Dame on Irish but could only manage three Krathaus won honors in the 50 yardtop, 15-6. first-place finishes. In the defeat, freestvle with Rich FitzsimmonsBob Thompson saw his unbeaten trailin.g.
streak in the 200 yard backstroke
The Irish running attack, which 
Ed Graham took the 200 yardbroken while the Irish divers failed 
had burned Butler for several easy 
individual medley and .John
to honors meter
fast-break socres, lost some of its capture in one Balthrop placed second. The Irishcompetition for the first time this
sharpness while the Bulldogs 
divers returned to their winningyear.
exploited Irish defensive lapses 
form in one meter competition asNorthern Illinois, who has now
underneath the boards to stay 
Foster and Dan Makielski finished beaten Notre Dame the last three
within range. Notre Dame held 
first and second repsectively.

years. dominated the action by
first-half leads of 23-12 and 34-22, 
Ll'ading 47-5 with seven eventsbreaking off to a 43-18 lead before
but the visitors fought back to remaining, Coach Stark emptied
the Irish could win an event.
within nine points on Billy Lynch's 
his bench. In the 200 yard butterflysteal-and-score and Crain's .Jim Kane's victory in the 100 Strack placed second and .John 
driving layup sandwiched around yard freestyle finally broke the third. Krathaus captured second Crotty's free throw. Huskies' string of triumphs. 
place with Wilcox third in the 100 J-Iowever. Northern Illinois yard freestyle.
With four minutes left in the breezed through the next five A pair of seniors, .John Balthrop
opening half, Notre Dame finally events despite Irish wins in the 400 and George Block, placed secondby John Fineran Saturday towhallop Park Ridge,l6­opened up a sizable lead, rolling off ~·ard freestyle and three meter in the 200 yard backstroke and 500o. on Mark Olive's hat and Don 
seven in a row. Brokaw sank a diving events. 
yard freestyle. Makielski earned aThe Notre Dame .Junior Varsity Smith's goaltending. Notre Dame pair of free tosses, Shumate Sophomore Chris Payne placed first place in the three meter dive,
!Iockey Team ran its win streak to now has won nine on the season completed a three-point play, and first in the high board competition and the 400 yard freestyle relayfour with two routs this weekend at losing only three. ' Novak dumped in a hook after with freshman Mark Foster taking team (.Jim Meagher, Block;the A.C.C. The .Junior Irish 
Friday's game was close at the grabbing a rebound. Craig second. Notre' Dame's 400 yard 
Balthrop. O'Connor) easily
thumped Indiana 13-3 on Friday 
l'nd of the first period. The Irish Reinhardt answered with a 20-foot freestyle realy team <Gene defeated Bradley's represen­behind the hat tricks of Bob Howe 
jumped out to a quick 3-0 lead in bank shot to dose scoring for the Krathaus. Mark Wilcox, .Joe tatvies.
and .Jim Augustine, and came back the first four minutes of the game half. with the Irish in command, O'Connor. Kane) closed the The victory over the Braves on goals by Olive, Augustine, and 42-28. scoring for the Irish. 
upped Notre Dame's record to 5-3.
Wrestlers 4th; Howe. but the Hoosiers came After the setback by the Huskies, They hit the road again this
After a few minutes' hesitation,
storming back in the 18th minute of a trip to Peoria was just the 
Saturday travelling to Olean, New
Notre Dame snuffed out any
the period with two shorthanded medicine coach Dennis Stark's 
York to meet traditional rival St.
lingering hopes of a Butler
AI Rocek wins goals, the first against Notre Dame tankmen needed. Bradley Bonaventure. this year. to close the gap to 3-2 at the end of the first.
by Greg Corgan 

However, from the second period 
Fencers post three Chicago wins 
Dl'spite another outstanding on. it was all Notre Dame, except by John Fineran team about giving away too many said after going 1-3 last Saturday. 
pl'rformance by heavyweight AI for one more Indiana marker when bouts .they ~hould have won. Tri-DeCicco feels that the epee group Hocek. the Notre Dame wrestling the game was out of hand in the The record shows that Notre Cap~am Mike Matranga had a holds the key this Saturday versus!Pam could manage only a fourth third. Augustine and Howe added Dame has fenced five times this particularly disappointing day as Wayne State and Detroit in theplace tie Saturday in the National second stanza markers to up the season. The schedule, on the other did his fellow eppemen. "It won't Motor City. "I have to get Mike('atholic Invitational Wrestling lead to 5-2, and then both finished hand, will say that Notre Dame happen again," the prideful senior .John Lauck, North Carey, andtournament in Cleveland. their hat tricks <Augustine's 
sh.ould have fenc.ed se.ven.. The Hich Waugh more fencing time inHocek. a junior, upped his record second in two games) in the third. 
Insh won three times m Chicago 
order for them to win."
to :W-1 with a 4-3 victory over Ed llowe went his teammate one 
Saturday <Chicago Circle 20-7,
Floyd of .John Carroll University. better by notching his fourth tally The Sabres came through in fine 
Milwaukee Tech 23-4, Wisconsin
Flo~·d had been defeated only once at the final buzzer. Tom McCurdy 
style, wining all three times
Parkside16-1U, butagain.,asearlier 
previously and the championship made twenty-two saves in the nets 
Saturday. but tri-captain Dan
in the season, one team-Wisconsin­
mall' with Rocek was a close for Notre Dame. 
Mulligan said. "It is a flip of the
Milwaukee--failed to show up, and
cont{'st. Saturday's score sounded more coin which school, Wayne State or
Coach Mike DeCicco was
.John Carroll took top honors in like football than hockey. The Irish 
un~ Detroit.has the better sabre team.
the meet. gathering three firsts and were in command right from the flabergasted. "I just don't have anBoth All-American."
derstand why they don't show
two second-place finishes and a start. and. at times, Park Ridge George Viamontes and Mike Lyons 
<Purdue failed to show earlier this
total of 80 1~ points. Marquette was goalies AI Saleker and Mike 
both posted 5-l records last
year at the A.C.C.). We're trying
runner-up in the tournament, Homito had to wonder if the ice weekend while their captain had aamassing 65 1~ points, while St. was tilted in their direction. Notre to help them build . up their 6-3 mark. Sabre coach Ron Sollittoprogram," he said . 
. John's placed third-just one point· Dame took 74 shots on goal during "Each team classic
added. has

Maybe the Milwaukee Badgers
behind. the afternoon, with Salekar kicking sabreman with good form."
got the word on Notre Dame. Their
The Irish tied with Seton Hall for out 46 of them in two periods. Mark 
counterpart, Parkside,certainlydid 
fourth position. They garnered 29 Olive was the chapeau wearer this At foil , The Irish were their
after the Irish convincing victory 
points. including the first by game with three goals, with Dave usual selves. Tri-Captain Mike 
on Saturday. As you remember,
Hocek. a second by Dave Boyer Smith. Bill Guisti, Bill Whiteside, Cornwall, Tom Coye and .Jim
their press brochure failed to list
and a fourth place finish by Rich and Timothy Byers all notching a Mullenix all posted 4-1 records.
the Irish among the tougher op­
Gilloon pair. Don Smith recorded the first 
ponents. After the victory,
Boyer. a freshman, was defeated junior varsity . shutout in history "I think we can beat Detroit and 
DeCicco said, "They had the
15-5 by Don Weir in the finals of the by saving fifteen shots as he hardly Wayne State. We had Detroit on 
manpower to beat us. After the
142 pound weight class. Weir, also worked up a sweat. The whitewash the ropes;Jast year, 9-3, but lost 14­
bout. I talked with their coach. He
of .John Carroll, was voted MVP of lowered his goals-against average 13 after doing everything I ex­
was disappointed they

the annual N.C.I.W. tournament: to an impressive 2.07. so didn't pected we had to do to win. We 
win. I guess they figured they had
Gilloon placed fourth in the 158 The team has the weekend off must not give away any bouts in 
horses to beat us."

pound weight division losing 8-3 to before returning February 17 to the first and second spots in order 
DeCicco was happy to chalk up
yet another .John Carroll wrestler, meet Southfield, Michigan in the to win. and epee has to come 
the victory. but he cautioned his
.Jim Trausch. .A.C.C. at 4:30p.m. Tri-captain Mike Cornwall. through in both." 






