---~~------~---------------------~---~­
On The Inside 
Steelyard Blues review 
...page 5 
1rish edge South 
Carolina 
...page 7 
~---------~-------­


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VII, No. 93 Monday, March 5, 1973 


by Bob Quakenbush Staff Reporter 
April's hours bring hay, flowers, balloons, surprises, and lots of fun, and games and prizes~all partof An Tostal, Notre Dame's annual spring festival. 
fun and games 
An Tostal, Gaelic, for "festival," is sponsored by the Hall President's Council for "fun, games, and relaxation completely unaffected by price inflation," said Steve Jeselnick Sunday afternoon. As Chairman of An Tostal We~>kend. he announced the dates of the event are April 26, 27, and 28. 
All members of the ND-SMC community can parti~ipate in most of the festivities for the traditional fee of $0.00, according to Jeselnick. 
the Irish Wake 
Only one event, the Irish Wake which ends the festival, requires an admission fee. The Wake offers all the beer one can drink for $3.00 per couple. It will be held at the South Bend Armory. Jeselnick assured a lively time, quoting last vear's ~n Tostal booklet which stated. "The only difference between an Irish Wake and an Irish wedding is one less drunk." 
New events added to the traditional agenda are "Find Your Mate" <while blindfolded). a Beerslayer zHunt, a decathlon, and a special athletic event which will herald the "return to the mud 
pit., 
originai~<!'Ontributions 

And, an unbelievable~and as yet secret~ prize·,inspired by Lyons Hall's entry of an elephant in 1972's tug-of-war, will be. awarded to the Notre Dame or St. Mary's hall which "features the most spectacular and original contribution to An Tostal Weekend.~> Jeselnick reported that one hall is believed to be constructing a giant balloon to monitor the celebration from an altitude of 300 feet. 
Even national figures may take an active role in the festival, ac­cording to Jeselnick. He confided, "I've heard a rumor that Charlton Heston himself will lead the score or more of chariots and their human steeds around the An Tostal arena prior to the Ben-Hur chariot race." 
Jeselnick said the An Tostal booklet, which details the events and the rules for the various contests, will be distributed shortly after spring break. 
"Gentle Thursday" will start the weekend with a specially prepared Irsih Lunch, courtesy fo Mr. Price. 
The day's highlights include a Trivia Bowl, kite flying contest, the "Find Your Mate" contest, and a flour blowing competition. In the athletic feature of the day, the Fighting Irish, sporting boxing gloves, will face the winner of the ND vs. SMC girls' basketball pairing. 
frivolous friday 

"Frivolous Friday" contains a quarter pitching contest, im­personation contest, old tire race, and the Bookstore Basketball Tourney finals between two five man teams. Said Jeselnick, "We'd love to see someone break the world's record for the egg toss on "frivolous Friday." It's currently 201 feet." 
The.' final day of the festival, "Sunny Saturday," features a decathlon, road rally, bicycle race, trucking contest, frisbee tour­nament. chariot race, tug-of-war, touch football championships, the search for a needle ina haystack, a pie eating contest, the Beerslayer Hunt, and "the return to the mud pit." These activities will be centered around "Splendor in the Grass," a picnic for the entire ND­SMC community. 
free concert 

Entertainment will be plentiful, especially Friday night, In ad­dition to "The Fourth Origianl An Tostal Amateur Hour," the HPC will co-sponsor "a free concert by a spectacular group~whose identity will be kept secret" with the Student Union, Jeselnick ad­ded. 
Saturday evening's Irish Wake at .the South Bend Armory will dose the An Tostal Weekend. 
.Jeselnick requested that all students be invited to Wednesday night's meeting in the Breen­Phillips Chapel at 7:00 p.m. At that time events will be assigned so that preparations for the festivities can begin. 


Monday, March 5, 1973

the observer 
warld 
briefs 
(c) 1973 New Yorl<l Timps 
Clark Air Base. The Philippines-The second large group of t\nwrican prisoners of the Vietnam War-106 Air Force and Navy pilots-arrived here from Hanoi looking pale but generally healthy. Their return marked the midpoint of American prisoner releases Sl'h£'dul ed to be completed by March 28 under the Vietnam cease-fire agr£'ement. 
Washington-President Nixon declared in a national radio address that the quality of life is again on the upswing in cities and towns and that "the hour oJ crisis has passed." In the latest of his state of the union messages. the President said that despite talk in recent years that urban life was on the brink of collapse, "Today America is no longrr coming apart." 
Houston-Nine months after he left the Nixon Cabinet as Secretary of the Treasury, John B. Connally, who has been a Democrat, is more than £'ver a prince of the rich Texas establishment-a rancher and real estate venturer, a sought-after lawyer and business counselor to som£' of the biggest Texas bankers and oil men. He is also reported to he on the verge of announcing his conversion to the Republican Party, and planning to run for the Presidency in 1976. 
Wounded Knee. S.D.-Foxholes and bunkers have been established by the £'ntrenched Indians in the hamlet of Wounded Knee which they had seized last week. The armed captors of Wounded K~ee say they are determined to stay until a settlement of their grievances has been reached with the Federal government. 
an campu• taday 
9:00 am-4: 30 pm--rtiemb!l_l:Ship drive, young americans for freedom-; memorial library 
7:30 
pm--meeting, flying club, room 12,. aerospace building 

7:30 
pm .. hockey, notre dame vs. north dako:a, wcha playoff semi-finals, ace 

7:30 
pm--duplicate bridge, students and facul1y welcome, Iafortune rathskellar 


at nd-•mc 

Theologians speak on liberation 
by Davicf Rust Staff Reporter 
Two women theologians from Chicago's Jesuit Seminary visited Notre Dame yesterday, urging listeners in an evening lecture to adopt a "concept of possroiJities in self-definition." 
The theologians, the Reverend Peggy Way of the United Church of Christ and Sister Marjorie Tuite of the Roman Catholic Church also emphasized that active par­ticipation to wrest power to define self from those who now hold it over others was necessary to being a "liberated individual.'"'Just how much are you hurting?" asked Sr. 
Tuite at the commencement of their presenatition. "How much you feel the pain will determine what you perceive to be liberation." 
Once an individual, woman or man. black or white, feels the "pain." Sr. Tuite went on, he or she strikes out against those causing it who would "make us be what they want us to be." 
"We say, I am," said Sr. Tuite. "We are saying very deliberately, without apologies, that we can't be what other people expect us to be­"-and thus, "We thrust ourselves into liberation." 
Once the pain and the "con-

Heddy lectures on 
sciousness of oppression" is felt, 
the team went on, it is necessary 
for each person to claim full 
responsibility for defimng him or 
her self. 
"We find we are not a Playboy centerfold," said Rev. Way. "We start looking back into history and see women doing much of the Protestant missionary work, and numbers of great nun mystics. We start to realize that women have produced great art, written poetry. 
We find that we are not what they're telling us we are." 
Liberation is not just for any population block, the women lectu­red. 
•
1nsurance 
1n first series of rn1n1-courses 


by Terry Keeney Staff Reporter 
Charles Reddy, the University Insurance Officer. explained some "l<'undamentals of Insurance" last Thursday night in the first of a s£'ries of "mini-courses" offered ·this semester by the Arts and 
Letters Council. 
H.l'ddy. who is also a lawyer and tl'aches a course in insurance at lloly Cross Junior College, gave his audience of sixty some helpful point£'rs in buying both personal and business insurance. 
Heddy pointed out that property insurance for both building and contents. as well as insurance for fire and ex tendeel coveraje 1ranging from wind damage to damage caused ··by a crashing airplane) were essential for adPqua t£' coverage of a business. His ad\'ice to those interested in buying property insurance for both husirwss and home was to insure for about 80 percent of the value of llw property. "The land and foundation nl'ed not be insured in most cases since they will remain undamaged by a fire." 
Aecording to Hl'ddy the state of Indiana r£'quired all motorists to havl' auto public liability and auto propprty damage insurance. He urged his audience to obtain uninsured motorists' coverage, l'Ontending that for only $5.00 a motorist can be insured up to $20,000 if the other party in an accident has no insurance. 
Mr. HPddy explained that he g£'neral public is often unaware of many insurance "bargains." Many companies offer open-ended limit auto coverage "for nickels more than conventional coverage". This means that a motori!>t can be insured up to $:lOO.OOO in bodily and-or property damage, as compared with $50,000 or $100.000 for bodily injury and $50(10 for property damage in l'onvent ion a I auto insurance policiPs. 
In discussing the question of no­fault insurance, Reddy pointed out that ·courts in Cook Country, Illinois were backed up 7 years largPiy due to the vast numbers of a auto property damage suits in 
thP dockets. In admitting that no­fault insurance would probably 
!he Observer is published daily 
durinq the college semester except 
vacations by the student:; of the 
Universi!y of Notre Dame and St. 
Mnry's College. Subscriptions
'"•'Y be purchased for $8 per 
o;cmester ($14 per year) from The 
Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, 
Indiana 46556. Second class 
postaqe paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
. 46556. 

NASSAU 
Buses from Circle to Metro Airport Det'roit will leave 3/9 (time to be announced). 
Ticket sales begin MONDAY at S.U. Ticket Office, 3rd Floor LaFortune. Make reservations now to insure a seat! 
rPiieve this court backlog, Heddy warned that it would not stop in­surance premiums from rising. 
"I do not think it is financially possible for fees to go down if there is no possibility of companies winning money in court from other companies. 
When asked why most policies for businPsses do not include flood insurance, RPddy replied, "Flood insurance is a separate coverage Ihat is given only in a few areas." 
HPddy left his audience a final notp of advice in buying any type of insurance. 
"Go to the best possible broker or thP highest class insurer you can get." 
The rwxt mini-course by the Arts and LP!ters Council will be Thursday March 22. The council plans to offer courses in auto 
Liberation is thus open to men; the theologians urged a shedding of roles on all's part and pushedfor allowing men and women to choose from several options for their lifestyles. 
"We hear that a woman is not 'fulfilled' until she gives herself to a man. Is that right? We should be considering celibacy <or forms of relations between the sexes other than heterosexuality) to be equally good options." 
Women who choose the option of motherhood today, said Rev. Way, after being urged to take this step by society, are ignored after they reach the end of their "produc­tive" motherhood years. 
"When women reach their forty's and their children are grown up and gone away, does society say, Good job, Well done, Now come and use your creative powers to help us with our problems? No. The mothers are left stranded. They're told, Be good mothers, but you'll get no \'alue for it." 
Their lecture followed an outline set by a sheet passed out to the audience offering issues and prospective answers on the problem of "Liberation and Possibilities," and frequent pauses were taken to allow those present to talk to each other about the problem just presented. 
During one such break a member of the audience told the assembly that she believed "Liberation ,-hould be more an internal thing." 
"I wouldn't want to liberate people into all kinds of internal upset." she explained. She compared women to those physically handicapped, in whom, she said. "We sometimes find an admirable inner strength." 
Annual IUSB International Folklife Festival 
Northside Hall Indiana University at So. Bend 1825 N.Side Blvd. So. Bend March 16-17-18 

Folk Music Concerts Adults $2.00 Stud. $1.00 Fri.. M.I6 8:15pm-Sat.M.l7 8:15pm 
FrPl' l<'olkmusic and Dance Workshop Sat. & Sun. 1:00 pm l;uitar-Banjo-Dulcimer-Am. & Europ. Folk Dance 
f<'n'l' Craft Fair-Sat. & Sun. 1:00-5:00 pm 
f<'n'P Childrens' Concert Sun. 2:00pm 
f<'n'P Children's Concert Sun. 2:00 pm

STUDENT UNION PRESENTS THE TRIUMPHANT RETURN OF THE BEACH BOYS Saturday March 31 Tickets: $5.50, 4.50, 3.00 Tickt. ts on sale at Student Union & A.C.C. Ticket Offices. Students are urged to purchase tickets before Spring Break in of order to get the best seats. 



Monday, March 5, 1973 
the observer 

Commager blasts intervention 
Executive interfering with legislative duties 
by Pattie Cooney Staff Reporter 
The major threat to the governmental system of the United States comes from the tendency of the Executive Branch to ignor' the jurisdiction of Congress, according to Henry Commager, Professor of American History at Amhurst College. 
"The Executive Branch is in­tervening with the Legislative Branch in a gross manner," Commager avered in a speech delivered last night in the Library Auditorium. 
It is Commager's view that the Viet Nam war has been largely a presidential war in that Presidents Johnson and Nixon waged war without a declaration of war by the Congress. The Gulf of Tonkin Resolution was used as an excuse 
mmager: Legislative 
Branch has lacked the courage to recover its powers. 
•

IP 
urope. 

STUDENT·RAILPASS 
ThewaytoaeeEuropewithoutfeelinglikeatouriat. 
Student-Railpass is valid in Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Holland, Italy, Luxembourg, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland. 
Eurailpass, Box 90, Bohemia, New York 11716 
Please send me your free Student-Railpass folder'7lrder form.O Or your free Eurailpass folder with railroad map. D 
Name __________________________ 
Street________________ 
City· ____________ 
State• ______Zip _______ 
192A 

·----------------------------------------~ 
So you plan to spend the Summer in Europe this year. Great. Two things are mandatory. A ticket to Europe. And a Student-Rail pass. The first gets you over there, the second gives you unlimited Second Class rail travel lor two months for a modest $135 in Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Holland, Italy, Luxembourg, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, and Switzerland! All you need to qualify is to be a full-time student up to 25 years of age, registered at a North American school, college or university. 
And the trains of Europe are a sensational way to travel. Over 100,000 miles of track links cities, towns and ports all over Europe. The trains are fast (some over 100 mph). frequent, modern. clean, convenient 
to get into the war, but was later 
repealed, yet the war went on. 
The intimidation of the media is 

the most serious attack coming 
from the executive department on 
the rights of the First Amendment, 
he felt. Commager cited as 
examples the taxes on such 
publications as The New York 
Times and The Washington Post, 
and added that the attack had 
spread to television in the form of 
Mr. Agnew's attacks and the anti­
trust suits. Such actions would 
seem to indicate that the press 
doesn't have the right to criticize 
the government, an example being 
the subpoena of reporters in 
connection with the Watergate 
case. 
Another struggle between 

Congress and the President is over 
the power of "the purse strings." 
In this instance, Commager points 
out, Nixon has repeatedly im­
pounded funds appropriated by 
Congress. "There has been no 
other instance in our history where 
a President vetoed a proposal of 
Congress by killing programs 
voted in by Congress," he said. 
Some of these programs include 
Model Cities, Desalinization plan, 
Urban Transport, Office of 
Education, and Biological . Research. The President, Commager 
argued, is asserting that he can declared, "with the result that there hold over money for the next year, is _no true picture of rel~ti~ns with can destroy programs by not using Saigon, the p~ace negotiatiOns, or the money appropriated, and thus of the operatiOns of SEATO, and 
is seriously erroding the legislative the POWs." 
and very comfortable. They have to be. So you'll meet us on our trains. It really is the way to get to know Europeans in Europe. 
But there's one catch. You must buy your Student-Railpass in North America before you go. They're not on sale in Europe because they are meant strictly for visitors to Europe-hence the incredibly low price. Of course if you're loaded you can buy a regular Eurailpass meant for visitors of all ages. It gives you First Class travel if that's what you want. 
Either way if you're going to zip off to Europe, see a Travel Agent before you go, and in the meantime, rip off the coupon. It can't hurt and it'll get you a better time in Europe than you ever th9ught possible. 
authority in appropriation. 
Commager asserts that Congress should refuse ap­propria tion to the Executive Branch and Defense Department until the President cooperates. Congress should definitely reassert its power over the purse strings, and reassert its power over making peace and war. The power of Congress to confirm appointments should not be waived out of courtesy to the President. 
Claims of Executive immunity and privilege should be rejected in regard to Senate hearings and investigations. More importantly, Congress should protect the media and their right to inform the Am~rican public of what is hap­penmg. 
"The Legislative Branch has failed to support the American people and itself and so far has lacked the courage to recover its powers," he maintained. 
Commager vehemently attacked secrecy in governmental operation. "If the Senate is not allowed to know what it is ratifying how can it ratify it?" A "notorious" example is an ex­penditure of $6 billion in one year--" to what purpose no one knows. "Secrecy, deception, and duplicity are the characteristics of this administration," Commager . The ~pre~d of secrecy has gone mall d1rectu~ns, along with punish­ment for those who violate the secrecy. The use of the Grand Jury to harass and punish instead of protecting rights as it was originally designed to do, is a grave abuse according to Com­mager. 
It sure would be great to have all the time you need for all the things you like to do. And If your reading work load is keeping you from some of the finer things, here's an lmpor· tant suggestion. Evelyn Wood Reading Dynamics will show you how to read 3 to 10 times faster with equal or better com· prehension. Once you've mastered Evelyn Wood's method, your reading and studying time will be drastically reduced. You'll know some important secrets of test-taking and be able to keep up better with your studies • as well as those social activities you're missing now. Time • that's what it's all about. Do something about it now. 
ATTEND A FREE SPEED READING LESSON INCREASE YOUR READING SPEED 50 TO 100% ON THE SPOT 
·roD A Y and TOMMORROW at 6 and 8 pm Center For Continuing Education Notre Dame Avenue 
mEvelyn Wood 

Reading Dyniunics Institute 
"50 -100% on the spot" 
CoJTlmager has written several books, including A merica in Perspective, Freedom and Order, and Freedom, Loyalty, and Dissent. Previously he was a professor at Columbia for 20 years, and is considered one of the most renowned historians in the ~ountry. 
., 

THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
John Abcwd  Dan Thornton  
Editor-In-Chief  NEWS: 283-1715  Business Manager  
EDITORIALS: 283-8661  
Don Ruane  BUSINESS: 283-7471  Joe Butler  
Executive Editor  Advertising Manager  

Monday, March 5, 1973 
Only Rational Thing 
The Board of Commissioners and the present student government did the only rational thing that could be done last Saturday when they cancelled yester­day's third installment of the student body presidential election. Sunday's election had the trappings of an even greater farce than its two predecessors: there were 28 candidates at the point of cancellation and the list promised to grow exponentially as time continued. 
No clear inference may be drawn from the results of Thursday's election. One cannot say that Bob Kersten received a majority of the votes cast (in absentia) nor can one say that a majority cast their ballots in protest of the entire election procedure. 
What is clear, and it is the only thing that is clear, is that a majority did not wish to have a wholesale revision of student government ushered in for the second year in a row. It's not certain that the majority, in this sense, necessarily got its way. However, it will be clearer if the document which comes from the constitutional revision now under way is approved by the mandatory two-thirds of the hall councils. 
If Bob Kersten, Dennis Etienne, Mike Marget, Jim Clarke, Chris Singleton and Fred Baranowski (tlie drafters of the new constitution) genuinely wish to protect the interests of the student body, then they must be extremely careful not to subject that group to any further political manipulation. Let's face it, there's been a helluva lot of abuse slung in the direction of the regular student in the last few weeks. And the proliferation of candidates for the office of Student Body President is just one indicator of the increasing distaste among students for such abuse. 
So the question is "Have the students been had?" Have they been asked in bad faith to submit to the distasteful process of selecting a Student Body President under the pretense that such a person would, in fact, emerge from the elections of the past week? Have they, finally, been deceived--have we been deceived? 
It will be several weeks--perhaps months--before the answer to this question can be made unequivocally. It is certainly true that the student body has nothing to show for what happened last week--except, perhaps, general disgust. But if this disgust takes concrete form in a document that restores the faith of the student body in its electroal processes and brings a new life to student govern­ment, then the actions of the past week will have been taken in good faith. 
The most popular student leader in recent times has undertaken to produce such a document as his first real com­mitment to student government. We hope he and the other members of the committee are successful. 
The Editorial Board 

2i&IZLMIIIIIIIRBHIIIIftllllliiiiiiDIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIDIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIImlllllllltl, 
LaFortune before 5 pm March 7.
Campus Camera freaks arise! A ·$10 prize Contestants are limited to three awaits the best picture selected by photos and all entries must have our judges to be used in-a "Campus the name, address and phone Printout" in a future issue of The number of the applicant. Only
Printout 
Observer. photos accompanied by a stamped 
If you have black and white self addressed envelop will be 
photos of campus scenes you would returned. 
like to see published, bring them to Observer and Dome
Contest 
The Observer office, third floor photographers are ineligible. 
OOIIIIIIIII..UIIII&ZIZ___I__IIIHIIEIIIIIIIIIIHUIDIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIDIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIU 

..Nothing is better for thee than me." 
EasyWriter 


...~~ Wounded Knee 
l~··. "'· ~ dankafi1avsek 
In the east, a bloody sky announced the birth of a new day. Sunrises 
at Wounded Knee, South Dakota, are like nowhere else. The rising sun 
reveals a Mother Nature still undefiled by man. Each new-born1day 
em.erges from a, womb-like environment of silence and serenity. And 
so It was on February 28, 1973. 300 Oglala Sioux greeted the dawn after 
~pend.ing the. previous night capturing the old Indian village. The 
mvadmg Indians had been well-armed but well-coordinated. They 
succeeded in taking the town without inflicting or suffering any 
casualJies. Led by a group of Vietnam veterans, they "secured" 
Wounded Knee as if it were just another village in Indochina. By 
dawn, the town belonged to the red man--again. 
December 29, 1890 

The last time Wounded Knee had been in Indian hands was more 
than 82 years ago. The Sioux chief of the village at that time was c~lled Big Foot. When he received word that Sitting Bull had been killed by the cavalry, he voved his small band of Sioux to Wounded Knee, hoping to avoid the "long knives." His hopes were dashed on December 28, 1890 when the Seventh Regim~nt, commanded by Colonel James W. Forsyth, quietly captured the village. Forsyth had orders to take Big Foot's tribe to the Union Pacific Railroad for shipment to a military prison in Omaha. On the Morning of, December 29t~ ~e ordered that the Indians of the village be disarmed. Un­sati~fJed with the number of guns surrendered, Forsyth ordered his soldiers to search the tepees. While the "long knives" looked for .weapons,fighting broke out. Dee Brown describes what happened in 
Bury My Heart at Wounded Knee (page 444): 
"In the first seconds of violence, the firing of carbines was 
deafening, filling the air with powder smoke. Among the dying who 
lay sprawled on the frozen ground was Big Foot. Then there was a 
brief lull in the rattle of arms, with small groups of Indians and 
soldiers grappling at close quarters, using knives, clubs and pistols. 
As few of thelndianshad arms, they soon had to flee, and then the big 
Hotchkiss guns on the hill/Opened llP on them, firing almost a shell a 
second. raking the Indian Camp, shredding the tepees with flying 
shrapnel. killing men, women, and children ... 
"When the madness ended, Big Foot and more than half of his 
people were dead or seriously wounded; 153 were known dead, but 
many of the wounded crawled away to die afterward. One estimate 
placed the final total of dead at very nearly three hundred... " 
Louis Weasel Bear, who miraculously survived that fateful day at Wo~nded Knee, said of the massacre: "We tried to run, but they shot us hke we ~ere a buffalo. I know there are some good white people, but ~he soldiers must be mean to shoot children and women. Indian soldiers would not do that to white children." 

daanesbury 
r 
' 
I ~ 
~ 
" 
'tfJ/(g,.1V£ OcCJO~D 1'0 WRrr~ H'I 
POL-ITICAL. 5t:JEAiCE PfJP&'P ON V161NAI1... 
P.CAUY? 
~ 
I J 

SEEJTHIIT? SHE 0/65 
YOOtHI/rE. 
I 

y~tu-1. s~€. r THINk IT'S ABDUl TIM£' SOM&OII!£ PVT T06ETH£R A STVOY OF AU TH£ POSITIVe ~E;:JSONS rOR 
OUR 1/IIVOt-1/&MENT... 
I 

'll•rry trudeau 
the observer 

r-----------------~~ 
~.-e-r's Managing Editor: Joe Abell ;vor .,-at... News Editor: Anthony Abowd Editorial Editor: Jerry Lutkus
f!cJ< ,qgour 
Features Editor: Beth .Hall

1<-A-C+S-1'1 
St. Mary's Editor: Maria Gallagher Sports Ed1tor: Jim DonaldsonJ Associate Editors: Ed Ellis, Bob Higgins Spec1al Proiects Editor: Dan Barrett 
Asst. Ad Manager: Patti Strobel 
Business Secretary: Ceil Popovich 
Subscriptions Manager: Art Ferranti 
Production Manager: Joe Wilkowski 
Circulation: Roger Burrell 
issue staff 

I'o til\& ro f/1111... 
Night Editor Marlene Zloza 

PR€5ENT 7H£ HOW tONS 
Ass'!. Night Editor ·Chris Sullivan 

AOH/NI.ST~;:J-/JOB 
Layout AI Rutherford 

1iON'.s POINT THe PltPE:I? 
1'/AJO P/IGCS 5HOUW 
Copy Editors Ed Ellis, Mike O'Hare 
Ptct.ureman Jerome Phillips

OF V!&WIN HAlle ro 
I 8£ I 
SOH£ Be?.. 
Typosts Rob Barringer, Harry Chung, Dennis Anastasoff fJCT/1/t .. I 
£NO/J6H.. 
Hal Operator M1ke Goetz 



Monday, March 5! 1973 the observer
Little BW, Sc:re•n made-for-tv flicks 
art fwrantl 

Again we have a week of made-for ­television flicks and some are naturally pilots for next year. Normally the networks have their schedules announced by Valentines Day for the new season but this year they are going into April (NBC's last made-for-TV proposed pilot is set for March 31 l. But there are three great reruns to be viewed this week, two movies. The non­movie is Liza Minelli's Emmy award winning special of last year, "Liza with a Z". Judy Garland's daughter sings and dances and just generally explodes into sheer entertainment in this great special. For a truly monumental hour of television variety, tune in at nine Friday on NBC. 
Topkapi airs Saturday at nine on NBC with Melina Mecuri, Peter Ustinov, and Maximilian Schell in a story about char­ming thieves who heist a jeweled dagger from the Topkapi Museum in Istanbul. It was one of the first great theft type pictures and the setting is dynamite. The actual heist scene is one of the more elaborate on film. It is good watching. 
-James.....CQQ_urn stars in The President's Analyst a serio.:Comic satiric film aout the 
a great put-on 
Steelyard Blues, The first released film from Notre Dame graduate and actor­turned-producer Tony Bill, is fighting a struggle for recognition. For some unknown reason, Warner Brothers is simply not promoting it. It should. Bill's film has the potential as a financial hit. 
Steelyard Blues is an extraordinarily funny film due primarily to the antics of Peter Boyle (whastarredas Joe a few years agol. Jane Fonda and Donald Sutherland share the spotlight but it is Boyle who steals the show as "the Eagle," an ex-circus 
.buman fly and clown. He has more outfits 
ranging from his hero uniform to a world 
war o~dier than Kers_ten has barbs for 
The Observer. 
demolition derby Sutherland plays Jesse <his brother's name is Frank-hirrt-). Veldini, an ex-con, ex­demolition derby wh~e-lifetime dream is to wreck every car produce<Un the U.S. bet­ween 1940 and 1960 cultninating in a demolition derby of school buses, dump and pick-up trucks, delivery vans, trailers, campers, and-as a climax-mobile homes. The car he wishes to use as his demolisher is a 1950 Studebaker. However, ·.while at­tending a derby, he sees just such a car being used. Within moments, he takes the Eagle's ambulence and with siren blaring rams four or five cars. In jail, his brother, a 
D.A. with further political aspirations who got Veldini a job cleaning zoo cages, beats him with the help of two guards. 
Undaunted. Veldini with the help of an ex­con. his younger brother, the Eagle, and a $100-a-customer hooker, Iris, played by Jane Fonda (who else?) concocts a scheme to renovate an old navy seaplane and, among other things, bash it into a freight train. Just before, Veldini plans on dropping the ~tnimal's "goodies" on his brother's house. "No one will be safe," chortles Veldini. These eccentics pick-pocket their way to the funds necessary for the improvement and finally raid a navy base with a few more character to abscend with a needed console. The cliches abound in this movie with Boyle impersonating Bogart, Water Brennan, a super-hcro-"This is a job (voice deepening> for the "Eagle" and Brando (circa On The Waterfront> in what can only be termed as a classic sequence. Whenever he is featured, the laughs fill the the9tte as in the case of his chewing on a pane of glass to scare off a bespectacledstereotypebureaucratic official from the healt-h department. 
not perfect 
However. the film is not perfect. A few things do bog the film down, though. Oc­eassionally, there is a juxta positioning of comedy to a serious vein which does not come off. A film cannot fluctuate from \'audvillian comedy and yet attempt a social commentary. But, even though Steelyard Blues sags in this area, it does not die as Catch-22 and Fuzz did. Rolling scene transitions also slowed down the action, for, in comedy, the laughs must be quick and consecutive. Although it is a unique technique for movies (not television), it offsets the pace. The film is only great if it 
Ui viewed as a comedy-farce. And there-in 1 psychologist to the president and how he cannot escape the Secret Service agents" when he tries to quit. No one is E!Xempt from the movie's'-pokes\ncluding the FBI. There are also some great car chases. Take to the couch at eight tomorrow on NBC. Kirk 'Douglas stars Wednesday at 9:30 on 16 in a musical adaptation of Robert Lewis Stevenson's Dr. Jekyll and Mr.. Hyde. I've got my reservations about this one. · --Now we· come to the pilots, all made for 
tel~vision. Brock's Last Case was an unsold pilot for this year starring Richard Wid­mark as Brock who quits the P.D.N.Y. and becomes a modern Western lawman. Sort of a "McCloud" in reverse which was exactly what the creators of the show had in mind. Of course, when this pilot died, Widmark opted for "Madigan" based on the movie of the same name(in which Madigan· Widmark-was killed). Itwas a good choice. It airs tonight at nine on 16. 
Crime Club (tomorrow at 9:30 on 22) has Lloyd Bridges as a private eye (yes, another one) investigating a pal's demise. It, too, is a proposed pilot. Ash Wednesday on ABC at 8:30, Lee Majors gets put back together 
lies--its strength. 

Tont'Bill, currently producing the Paul Newman-Robert Redford film I The Sting, said in a question and answer period following the film in Washington Hall Saturday that "the ·original script was tougher, about street peopl~.._creating a whole new world in which those' things (in the movie) were entirely possible." But Sutherland tended to get "goofy" and Fonda 
l"did not work on it as she could have," said 
Bill (and I agree), so the film became a 
comedy. Yet, with lines like "I'm not a 
criminal, I'm an outlaw" delivered at the 
right time with just the right touch of 
"goodness", there was no way the film 
could be. serious. The score featured Paul 
Butterfield among others and com­
plemented the film nicely. The film has not 
made it big due to the misleading title which 
connotes some seriousness and that Jane 
Fonda also tends to "turn-off the masses" 
alleged Bill. However, it was Fonda who got 
it made. Costing 1.6 million dollars and shot 
in eight weeks, Steelyard Blues will 
probably be a sleeper like Dick van Dyke's 
Cold Turkey a few years ago-another good 
comedy that was poorly promoted. And that 
is too bad. 

Bill, \who co-starred in his 1eight year 
acting carreer as Frank Sinatra's brother in 
Come Blow Your Horn and in many 
television programs, said that the one 
showing at Notre Dame last Saturday was 
"the best screening he ever had" and it was 
the first time he had ever done anything like 
this before. He is now thinking of showing 
his as-yet-to-be-seen-first film Dead End 
Miles starring Alan Arkin at Notre Dame. 
again after a plane crash and becomes a half-man half-machine secret agent for the government in The Six Million Dollar Man. 'If this pilot sells <remember, money is the name of the game), the series will be titled ''Cyborg" (a human robot> and Majors will leave his current second-banana ro!e in "Ownen Marlfhall, Counsellor at Law". -­
On the "ABG'"'-{)~nday Night Movie" we have two one-hou~ats. At nine, David Hanssen returns as a"'-·beach-bum private eyewho only takes cases when.. they interest him in "Harry 0" and, at ten, Stuart Whitman plays a private investigator who travels the world for an international detective agency in 'Intersect" (the same name but no relation to Mannix's old organization). So, there are two more detective pilots for you and in the coming weeks, there will be more, like Mr. Inside-­Mr. Outside" about a cop and an ex-cop who team up in New York created by the producer of The French Connection (Mar. 14), or Police Story \ ~~e~ ~y Jos~ph Wambaugh, author of The New Centurians starring Vic Morrow (Mar. 13), or Chase, a Jack Webb entree about undercover cops 
art ferranti 
its "origianlity, wierdness, and uniqueness" said Bill. 
The audience guffawed through most,~f the film. \Its consisting of college SW<iEmts and professors, though, some_wnaf biases this review but I think it is a great film for laughs and a fair film if you wish to look hard for a message. Do not see it if!youex­pect to do both. As to the actual essence of how the movie.~omes off, the magic that makes it work, f can only refer to a few lines of dialogue from the film. 
"How does he do that, Rocky?" 
"Have you ev~r._been in the circus?" 
UNo." 

"Then I can't tell you." See Steelyard Blues currently running at the State Theater in South Bend. \It's a great put-on. 
'Steelyard Blues 
Iris Jane Fonda Veldini Donald Sutherland Eagle Peter Boyle Duval Garry Goodrow Frank Howard Hesseman The Kid John SavageZoo Official Richard Schaal 
Black Man in Jail Melvin Stew(lrt Police Captain Morgan UptonFire Commissioner Roger Bowen Health Inspector Howard Storm Savage Rose Jessica Myerson Rocky Dan Barrows Pool Hall Waitress Nancy Fish Bar Waitress Lynn Bernay 
Rookie Cop Edward Greenberg 
Running time: 93 minutes Currently at the State Theater 
(Mar. 17), or Partners in Crime with a female, Lee Grant, as the lead (Mar. 17), or Jarrett starring Glenn Ford as an anti­violent art~loving detective-a California based Banacek (Mar. 24), or ... But why continue? I shallir~ort the flicks as t.pey come along but I think you can guess how the schedule will look next season. 
Hold on, though, we still have two m~ television films to go, and wouldn't 1'0U know it, one is a detective film. AnsJ in case you haven't guessed n by now, jt;'too is a pilot. The Marcus-Nelson _.>f':'rder; has Telly Savalas as a detecti~(police) trying to solve a duel murder. -This one is based on an actual murder in 1003. It begins at nine Thursday and runs Utree hours on CBS. The final film is a cDnglomerate of three half­hour segments entitled The Letters con­cerning three segments with important letters arriving a year late. It sta·rs Bar­bara Stanwyck, John Forsyth, Ben Murphy, Lesley Warren, Ida Lupino, Jane Powell Dina Merrill (Mrs. Cliff Robertson), and Leslie Nielson. ABC delivers it postage paid at 8:30 tomorrow. 
Star Trek 
Upcoming Notes: Since I told you of some for the upcoming pilots, I think you would like to know that Gene Roddenbury has another sci-fi show in the works. Since everybody seemed to schedule dinner around his Star Trek reruns last year, I shall give you the basic plot line. It is called Genesis II and is set in the year 2133 AD as 'the Earth re_-enters a new Renaissance after years in a Dark Age due to a devastating world-wide.. nuclear war. Says Roddenbury in an interview~ Detroit Free Press (1­28-73), · 'ii think_QI!r_~~rs will be 
fascinated with the Tyranians, our mutants: who are larger, handsomer, more in­telligent--but without emotion-than men. But the central figures are a group called The Pax. They foresaw the final war and stored away the art, literature, medicine, and some of the science of our current civilization." 
Roddenbury continues, "Some areas of the U.S. have been isolated. New York is a prison <typecasting). The Great Plains are ruled by white Comanche savages. Central Mexica has returned to an Aztec culture. The coast of thr-carolinas is a black nation, and Women's Lib has run amuck in one area where a matriarchy has taken over, pampering men like pet poodles." New modern building will not have to be erected. Instead the edifices will be made to look older. -Horses will be the main mode of transportation and a few of the shows will resemble Westerns. As far as I know, it will be a movie for television this year. Here is one pilot that I hope will sell. We have been without a "Star Trek" for too long. 
Speaking of that fabled television show of three years back, the second annual Star Trek convention was just held in New Youk and they took in 7,000 fans at five bucks a head. Memorabilia and trivia was swapped and sold. Film out-takes and old programs were seshown. I wish I had been there. I would have gone nuts. Oh well, there are to be four more conven.tions for "Star Trek" this year around the country. I am bound to hit one of them. For sentimentalists of a different sort, the last produced "Laugh-in" airs March 12, ending a 5112 year run on T.V. 
Deliverance 
In South Bend: Besides Steelyard Blues at the State which I review on this page, Deliverance has come to the River Park Theatre. This academy award niminated picture is visually stunning, evotionally draining. and thought provoking. If you are going to a picture .this week, choose Deliverance (about four men who try ttt· canoe down a river in the South and end up in a tension-ridden and horrifying night­mare of an adventure> over the State Theatre's Steelyard Blues. Both are great, but Deliverance is vastly supe~b. It features Burt Reynolds and Jon Voight. 
Trivia Question: Since I dev9ted so much ~pace to "Star Trek," name.tfle whole cast (regulars> and their roles of the series 
'A;)tQ!4M ila'J a;>IU!)-pURl( <KI!URf URWO.l.\ pue naJ.Iea 1afew-1adeq;:> aU!lS!J4;) aSJnN 'auo S!lfl uo 3u!ssanb daalf no.\ 1a1 [l,}-AOl(aq;:> AO(ARd U3!SU3 '!alfR.L a~JOa!) -n1ns ·n 'ueqooa saw-er-noas •. -'noas.. ..\Jawo8tuow Japuewwo;:> ·11 's1oqa!N anaq:>!N a(oq:>!N-RJnqn 'l'I •Alla)I)SaJO..!l.lQ -..\o:>aw ..sauoa, p.nruo<YJ Jdtaoa '.\ow!N pJeuoa'}-l(aods Japuewwo:> 'Jau)eqs W8!ffiM-l(J!}I '.L sawer ~!etd8;) :JcM\SUV 

the observer Monday, March 5, 1973
6 
Pro-life organization becomes state-wide 
we will succeed. I wish you every speakers to twenty-two Notre 1972 election, Protestants, and exert influence in each of the fifty 
by Leo Buchignani success in your efforts in Indiana Dame dorms within the next few Catholics. and college and states when the Human Life 
Staff Reporter and hope you will expand the other weeks. Dr. Charles Rice of the graduate students. They plan to Amendment comes before that 
states as well." Notre Dame Law School was the continue a drive for broad-based state legislature. 
The Student Coalition for the The Human Life Amendment guest speaker for the first dorm support on college campuses The coalition feels that the key to 
Human Life Amendment an-would prohibit the Unted States or meeting in Grace Hall last Mon-across the nation by contacting success is the power that Pro-life, 
nounced its formation as a any state from depriving any day." friends of members at other anti-abortion forces can show in 
statewide organization with human being of life without due Dr. Rice, a noted national leader schools. and they hope to be able to the 1974 primaries and elections. 
chapters at Notre Dame, St. process of law from the moment of of the Pro-life cause, stated in his EJ }} d Cl 1.. ...._ 
'Mary's, Purdue, Indiana conception, forbidding such things recent_appeal_to the Commiss.ion ection cance e • ar~ University, Fort Wayne, and In-as abortion and euthanasia. on Civil Rights concermng 1 
dianapolis. "This amendment has become aboriton: "Millions upon millions Etl•enneand Kersten confer 
The program of the Coalition is necessary because of the Supreme of innocent children will be legally _ 
to generate student interest and Court decision of Jan. 22, 1973, killed by abortion in the wake of (continued from page I) body of student government, had to 
public pressure ft>r the passage of which concluded that the child in the Supreme Court decision of get rid be abolished, saying that it had 
the Human Life Amendment the womb is not a person, but January 22, 1973. The situation of the Board of Commissioners and "failed miserably". "What we 
recently proposed in Congress by merely ·a growth within the calls for forthright action to make the HPC the legislative have right now is a township sort of 
Hep. Lawrence Hogan of mother. The child, consequently, eliminate this denial of equal body." government," Etienne said, "and 
Maryland. Rep. Hogan has written has no human or Constitutional protection in the administration of Details of the new constitution it hasn't cut the mustard." 
a telegram endorsing the Coalition rights and may be destroyed justice. It would be indefensible. . will be drafted during the mid-Etienne said he hoped to in-
and its efforts, which reads, practically at the convenience of . to stand by, inert and passive, in semester break by the interest corporate the HPC as a "forum" 
"Congratulations on your efforts the mother," said Mark Souder, the face of the mounting slaghter parties, principally Etienne and for issues but said, "What we're 
to reverse the Supreme Court's co-cahirman of the Coalition and a of defenseless children in the Clarke, and a unified proposal going to try is to do away with any 
January 22 decision on abortion. I Notre Dame graduate business womb." presented for ratification as early sort of legislature largely because 
appreciate your support of my student. The Coalition of Notre Dame, as possible. Commented Etienne, there's no legislating to be done." 
amendment. We don't have an · Rich Maggi, a Notre Dame Saint Mary's, and many other "I hope it'll be ready for the He said that appointments and 
easy road before us but with the senior who is organizational Indiana schools is composed of a Wednesday after we get back." budget proposals would problably 
support of all Americans who director for the Coalition, said, wide variety of people, including Etienne agreed that the Board of be handled by the HPC in the new 
('herish the dignity of human life "T· el Coalition will be sending workers from both ~ides· of the Commissioners, the prese11t major structurct· 
~~----~~~----------~~--------------~------------~ 


~ ... 
t 
I I 
I 
t 
I 
I 
I 
l ~ 
FREE WITH TWA. WE'LL GIVE YOU 24 HRS TO COLLECt 
This spring recess, when you land in any of these cities, airline youth card for an even trade, at the ticket office or ifyou show your TWA Youth Passport and present your airport before you depart. Then you too can cash in on the boarding pass to any TWA ticket office within 24 hours of coupon book.) your arrival, you'll get a nice, fat coupon book full ofdiscounts, So, ifyou're off across the country this spring recess, take two-for-ones, and free things. (If, by the way, you don't own a look at what you'll get ifyou fly TWA. a TWA Youth Passport, we'll be happy to accept your other Youth Passport is a service mark owned exclusively by TWA. 
FREE IN SAN FRANCISCO 
Buy one "Son-of-a-bitch" stew, get one free at Mother Lode. Buy four hours, get 20 free hours of motorbike rental at the Cycle Pit. Buy one dinner, get one free at Crouchons homemade-cooking restaurant. 
FREE IN LOS ANGELES 
Free boat ride around Marina del Rey. Free hour of surfboard rental in Santa Monica. Buy one meal, get one free at the Bratskellar restaurant. Free hour of bike rental in Marina del Rey. 
FREE IN DENVER 
, Free tour of Denver by Gray Line. Free ski guide tour from Vail Ski School. Free beer at Thlagi's in Boulder. Fourth day oflift tickets free at Aspen.Buy one admission, get one free to Wheeler Opera House­Free hour of horseback riding at Mahaney's Stables. Aspen's twin movie house. Free admission (and discounts on drinks) Fourth day of lift tickets free at Vail. at Denver Folklore Center. 
FREE IN BOSTON 
Buy one admission to The Jazz Workshop, get one free. Free quiche lorraine and cup of coffee at La Crepe. Free spaghetti dinner at the Spaghetti Emporium, Inc. Free Indian soup and vegetable curry at Free breakfast in the Pewter Pot Muffin House. the India Sweet House restaurant in Cambridge. Free admission to the Prudential Center Skywalk. Free pair of earrings or pendant (and watch it being made) Free combination health food platter at Whaler's Wharf. from Corners of the Mouth restaurant. Free admission or beverage and dessert at Passim Coffeehouse. 
FREE IN WASHINGTON* 
Buy one admission to Biograph Cinema, get one free. Free pizza at Anna Maria restaurant. Free sandwich at Piccadilly restaurant. Buy one sandwich, get one free at Blimpie Sandwich Shop. Free package of incense at Earth Works Boutique. Buy one meal, get one free at Mykonos Greek restaurant. 
FREE IN PHILADELPHIA* 
Free tacos for two at Tippy's Taco House. Free membership for two at Walnut Street Theatre. Free roast beef sandwich at Dr. Watson's Pub. Buy one ticket for Blazers Hockey game, get one free. Free cheese & tomato pizza for two. Three hours of bike rental free at Simba Bike Shop. Free quiche lorraine and coffee at La Crepe. Free package of cone incense from Cohn Candle Co. Buy one steer sandwich, Free admission to flea market. get one free at Pat's King of Steak. Buy one admission to Perelman Antique Car Museum, Buy one sundae, get one free at Just Ice Cream. get one free. 
For more information see your Campus Rep or call TWA. *Starting March 15. 
TO BEYOUNG. 

Monday, March 5, 1973 -the observer 
7 

Irish finish big, top So. Carolina 
by 'Vic Dorr "But our defense has been our Carolina coach, also commented the court, we had it set up for Townsend and senior Don Silinski, 
The Fighting Irish basketball team climaxed its 1972-73 season on Thursday. when it agreed to appear in New York's National Invitational Tournament. SaturdaY., in a game against the South Ca ina Gamecocks, the ND cagers co Ieted their regular season. and the · did it with a nourish that all but eclipsed the tourney invitation. 
Coach Digger Phelps' Irish finished their season by nipping the nationally-ranked Gamecocks, 73-H9. before a Convocation Center crowd of 10.781. They finished it with a won-lost mark of 15-11, and thPy finished it with pressure performances by a trio of sophomore starters---John Shumate, Gary Brokaw, and Pete Crotty. 
Shumate led all Irish scorers with 25 points--14 of them coming in a nip-and-tuck second half--and collected eight rebounds. Brokaw notched 20 points, including a key steal-and score lay-up with 21 seconds remaining in the game, and Crotty netted 15 and grabbed 10 rebounds to pace 
the Irish on the boards. 
And. beginning at 14:30 of the 
second half. the three joined in an 
offensive surge that kept the game 
beyond the reach of the on-coming 
Gamecocks. Shl.lmate's baseline 
lay-up with: -5:11 remaining 
followed a three-point play by SC's 
Kevin Joyce, and moved the Irish 
into a slim four-point lead, 61-57. 
. Joyce. who led all scorers with 26 
points. followed with a driving 
score of his own, but two Brokaw 
free throws kept the margin at 
four. 
Again. though, Joyce brought the 
Gamecocks back. The 6-3 senior 
drilled a 20-footer with 3:02 
showing to cut the Irish lead to 63­
lil. but Shumate hit a pair of free throws 15 seconds later to ease Notre Dame back to its four-point spread. 
Alexander English, South 
Carolina's li-8 freshman forward, 
sunk a follow shot with 2:30 
remaining, but ND got that score 
back when Crotty found himself 
open near the top of the key for a 
15-footer. Brokaw's free throw 
made it liS-63 with 1:54 remaining, 
and then. 30 seconds later. 
Shumate took a long in-bounds 
pass from Crotty and banked in a 
lay-up to give ND a seven-point 
cushion. 
The Gamecocks pulled to within 
four when Mike Dunleavy com­
pleted a \hree-pomt play with 1:09 
left. but a free throw by Dwight 
Clay and Brokaw's steal-and-score 
with 0:21 remaining iced the 
victory for the Irish. 
"We just hung in there during the second half," said NO's Digger Phelps. "We played scrappy, agressive ball, and we were able to go to Shumate more in the second half--and that helped. I also thought we did an outstanding job on Kevin (Joyce)· in the second half--and he is tough to defense. 
forte in all of our wins this year. It on NO's defense against his team's (Alex) English and (Brian) helped us late in the game again late-game rally. "I thought we 'Winters to criss-cross and put the today. They came back at us late in would come back," he said.'When ball up as quickly as p<issible, the game but we made two key vou are 10 points down in this hoping for the three-point play. But steals to win it." arena. most teams would fold--but Brokaw made a super steal to stop 
Frank McGuire, the South we did not. On our last trip down that." 

"This is a tough place to play in." he continued. "If you ever want to get ready for a tour­nament, this is the atmosphere to get ready in. Notre Dame always plays well at home." 
During the first half, though, it was McGuire's Gamecocks who were "at home" in the ACC. USC shot 61 percent from the field during that initial period, and they took their first lead of the game, 8­H, at 3:38, when Brian Winters tossed in a jumper from the cor­ner. South Carolina held that lead until Crotty's three-point play tied it at 26 with 5:14 left. 
Carolina ran off five unanswered points during the next minute and 14 seconds, but the Irish rallied just before the half nded, and Shumate's medium-distance jumper brought the Irish to within one, 37-36, at half-time. 
Shumate, Brokaw, and Crotty were the only ND players in double figures, but Dwight Clay finished the game with nine points and "Goose" Novak added four. Willie 

CLASSIFIED ADS 
3353
Celebrate 

Need ride lo Pa. on 1·80 call 4137 . Beth 

Desperately need a ride to, Long Island or N.Y.C. on March 9th,
a Hockey 
anytime after 12:30 p.m. Will share money and driving. . . Call Brian 8904 
Wanted: a ride to Birmingham or·
Victory at 
Detroit. Can leave ·Friday after
7 1 3 E. Jefferson 
noon. Ca115185 or 5719. Thanks. 
Riders Wanted: Florida roundtrip to OrI an do $45. 283·6338 between 4.
Barnaby's 
7 p.m. 
PERSONAL

~=:!:!:!:!:!:!:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::i:i:::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::::::!:!::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::;:;::::::::::~ 
M.M. 1 repent, Marry ml'. J.J.J. 
'!!!. SPECIAL With This ~l~l 
To the Irish leers, We missed you at the airport, but we'll catch your act in the ACC this
!iii March 5-8th (8-12 pm) Coupon :~~~~ 
week. Best of luck all the way to the championship. The Fanatics 
WANTED

jjj Pitc.her Beer .... $1.00 (must be 21) lll~ 
Rabysitter wanted to live in room .1nd board and small salary, 2 small boys at Riverside Drive phone 234·9357
i-.J!r~'d;~s"U~nt~rn-=z~~ 
Gary Brokaw's steal and wide-open layup put Notre Dame out of reach of 
RIDES WANTED South Carolina Saturday afternoon at the ACC. 
Need ride for 1 to Stamford, Conn. on March 8or 9. call 8745
NASSAU 
Need ride to Philadelphia on Spring Break. Will share ex­penses and driving. Call 8731 
There are still some {9) seats available 
Two guys desperately need ride to Miami on Mar. 7. Will share driving and expenses. Call Pete 8810. Please give us a break!
$189 -complete. Sign up at 
Need ride to Lauderdale,
S.U. Ticket Office. 
Hollywood or Miami $for spring break Ken 3679 
Need ride to Cleveland. Can leave anytime Thursday, March 8. Call Greg 1336 
LP.S. All deposits are due & can be turned in there too. 
Girls nred ride to Florida on
SPECIAL WEEKEND ROOM RATES FOR 
March 9. call 4006 or 4047 
NOTRE DAME PARENTS OR VISITORS 
Wanted rides east Destination, Boston Leave Thurs. March 8, Call 8906
$6.95 $8.95 
Single occupancy Double occupancy 
Need ride to Boston. Can leave March 8 or 9. Call Mike 1869 
No Notre Dame identification required, just 
Desperately need ride to Stam­
mentioQ this ad. Effective any Fri., Sat. or Sun. 
ford, Connecticut or vicinity for Spring Break Please Call Dave
thru June 15th, 1973 except for the weekend of 
283.1441
May 18th. 
Desperately need ride to Columbus Wednesday or Thur. sday Pam 8118
HICKORY INN MOTEL 50520 U.S. 31 North 
1'm desperate! Need ride to St. Louis March 8 or 9. Will pay $$.
South Bend, Indiana 46635 
Call Gary 1774 
(219) 272-7555 

Ride needed to Detroit (Grosse
3 miles North of the Tollroad. 
Pointe) or East on Ohio Turnpike to Exit 5 (Toledo). Can leave Cable T.V., Air Cond., Phones Send this ad to your Parents. 
Wednesday night. Will share driving and $$s. Please call Pete at 8253
~----~------------------------------------------~ 
Ride needed to Boston. Dave 288· 
who was maldng his last home appearance for the Irish, were the only other ND players to see ac­tion. 
The Gamecocks, who are bound for the NCAA tournament with a 19-6 record, received double-figure scoring from Joyce, Winters (15), and seven-foot Danny Traylor (15). Alex English had five and Mike Dunleavy four for USC. 
IH Meets 
(continued from page 8) 
Breen-Phillips wasn't far behind in third place with 41 points largely because of Ute performances of junior Larry Quinn. Quinn had a second in the 100-yard in.:ividual medley. a second in both the 50­yard backstr< te and the 'iO-yard butterfly and a third in thE !:iO-yard freestyle. 
Stanford placed fourth with 321·~ points while Cavanaugh was fifth with 15. 
The girls dominated the diving competition, with Mary Lammers of Badin taking first in the one­meter diving and Kathy Gallogly of Walsh second. Badin managed to ov~rcO!ne Walsh in the female division: 35~9. 
Male, 24 years old would like to write to sincere people who care about the lonely behind bars. Wade Romans 131-528, P.O. Box 69, London Ohio 43140 
Typing Experienced in disser. lations, essays, term papers. Arlene Spitz · 232·9061 
Will do your typing, professional job. Please phone 259·6538 
Wanted Good floor seats for 
Beach Boys. Call Chuck 8540 
NOTICES 
Men! Wornen! Jobs on ships ! No experience required. Excellent pay. Worldwide travel. Perfect summer job or career. Send $2.00 for information. Seafax, Dept. F. 7, P.O. Box 2049, Port Angeles, Washington 98362 · 
Before you buy a diamond . Learn all the facts. It may save you a qreat deal Call James 3118 
Hot line crisis phone. Have a proolem you'd like to discuss anonymously (drugs, bad trip, family relations, suicide, con­traception pregnancy, abortion, ete. )? Call this number 282·2323 
Overseas Jobs summer or permanent. Austratia,Europe, S. America, Africa, etc. All professions, $500. $1,000 monthly, expenses P.a\p.,cs.ights~g. Free info. Write T W.R. Co. Dept. F2, 2550 Telegraph Ave., Berkeley, CA 94704 
Need money for Spring Break? Borrow $20 to ·150 from Morrissey Loan Fund. Monday Friday 11:15-12:15 Basement of LaFortune 
Experienced Typist Theses, Term Papers, Essays etc. Margaret Gloster 289·6581 
FOR INFORMATION ABOUT GAY AWARENESS COM MUNITY, CALL 7789 W Th, 8·10 PM 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost: 72 N.D. ring Initials W.H.V. LaFortune Basement Reward 8515 
FOR SA.LE 
1971 Honda CB 350, green, low mileage, Lloyd Chern 146, 7733 
For Sale Acoustic brand am. plifier one piece best offer. call 234 4547 alter 7:00 prn 
AKC Labrador pup. Reasonable price for student 283·6556, 9.5 
1966 vw Beetle. sunroof, good mechanical and appearance. $575 call 284 4063 or 272.5257 
.. 
FOR RENT 
Available lor September, two three four and six bedroom homes. Call Mr. Hambarger · 234· 9364 

~---~--------------~------, 
-

Monday, March 5, 1973
the observer
8 
Irish ho111e for playoffs 
ND grabs second place with sweep of Duluth; face No. Dakota next 
by Jim Donaldson Nyrop's pinpoint pass sent him in Sports Editor alone on Mrazek and he gunned one into the upper right corner 
Notre Dame played the most from 15 feet. important game in its five-year Notre Dome missed an excellent modern hockey history Saturday opportunity to pad its lead when night in Duluth and won it, 4-1, over Mark Heaslip was whistled off for the University of Minnesota­hooking at 7:24 and Traschel Duluth Bulldogs. jofned him in the box at 9:05. 
As a result, the Irish, winnet"s of Mrazek was tremendous, however, 16 of their last 19 games, finished making several great stops, I in­the regular season with a 19-9 cluding a save on another one-on­league record and 48 title points, one confrontation with DeLorenzi. good for second place in the Those missed chances took on Western Collegiate Hockey added importance when Tom Association. Their !runner-up spot Milani picked off a bad N.D. pass guarantees them home ice in the in the Irish end, skated in alone on post-season playoffs, which open Kronholm and fired the puck !past tonight against North Dakota at him at 17:09. · 
7:30 in the ACC. When Pat Conroy was sent off 45 "Our season was wrapped up seconds into the second period and 
., into a 60 minute game," N.D. Steve Curry followed a minute coach "Lefty" Smith said. "Since later, the situation looked bad for we won, we finished second but, the Irish !Bumbacco almost turned had we lost, we'd have finished thetidewhen'he blocked a shot and fifth." converted the play into a 
Edd~e Bumbacco ( 15), John Nobl~ (20) and .Mark Steinborn (7) threaten to score on North Dakota in an
The Irish were in a third place tie breakaway but, again, Mrazek 
earher game at the ACC. The Insh and Swux meet tonight and Tuesday in the 0 · d f th
with Michigan Tech prior to last proved too tough, stopping WCHA playoffs. pemng roun o e 
weekend. They knew that a sweep Bumbacco with a sliding skate Traschel put Duluth on top again Irish lead went to 4-2 at 15:39 when 
of their eight-point series at Duluth save. _ .,.. bacco rebound. 
would assure a That was the closest either team with another long slap shot at Noble and Williams combined for a Curry, who connected on a 15­
them third place 
rinish, but they were also well came to scoring until Heaslip 16:34. score. Noble stickhandled for what foot wrist shot, and Paul Regan, The Irish managed to leave the seemed like minutes at the left who was set up in front by
aware that even one loss might broke in on Kronholm in the final ice with a 2-2 tie, however, as faceoff circle before firing a shot at Israelson, rounded out the Irishleave them in fifth. minute of the period and Nyrop Noble snuck inside the defense Mrazek that Williams, standing in scoring.
Scoring three goals in the last 10 had to take a holding penalty in took a pass from Williams faked front. got his stick on and deflected Duluth finished the year inminutes of Friday's second period, order to stop him. I UMD's ad­
Mrazek down, and flipped the into the net. eighth place with a 13-15 mark andNotre Dame broke open a 2-2 game vantage went to four-on-three shot into the upper right corner Another last minute goal, this :30 title points and will meet leagueand went on to post an 8-2 win over when the Bulldogs' Chuck !Ness 
just 25 seconds before the period one coming on a Bumbacco tip-in champion Denver in the first round the Bulldogs. And, while the Irish and N.D.'s Bill Green were 
ended. of a shot by Mark Steinborn, gave of the playoffs.
were thrashing UMD, Minnesota whistled off for roughing 15 
did Notre Dame a big favor by seconds before the period ended, The Noble-Bumbacco-Williams the Irish a 5-2 advantage only 22 Other match-ups in the two­~ombination gave the Bulldogs fits seconds before the horn sounded. game total goal opening playoff
edging Wisconsin, 4-3, in Madison, but nothing came of it. 1 
m the second session. Bumbacco That line was still hot in the third series are sixth-place Minnesota atending the Badgers' 16-game home The Bulldogs put on good scored what proved to be the period and accounted for its sixth third-place Wisconsin and fifth­ice winning streak. That turn of pressure at the start of the final session but lost their man ad­game-winner at 12:51, whipping in goal at 8:46 when Williams got the place Michigan Tech at fourth­events meant that, if the Irish vantage when Lyman Haakstad­a nifty shot from 25 feet out and the hat trick by pushing in a Bum-place Michigan State. 
could win again Saturday, second 
place and the all-important home­was sent to the box for hooking. ice playoff advantage would be Notre Dame had a power play of its theirs. own for 1:24 after Nyrop and Green 
Fading Sioux face red-hot Irish 
After Saturday's game, goalie returned to the ice, but was unable by Jim Donaldson defensive post to Cahoon's spot atto threaten seriously.
Mark Kronholm said, "I was The combinations ·of co-captain
Sports Editor center on the Sioux's number one
confident we'd be the winners. I With their topline of John Noble, Bil Green (2-14-16) and Mark
Playoff hockey makes its debut line, between Larry Drader and
was confident we'd come out of it Bumbacco and Ian Williams Steinborn (4-13-17) and Bill Nyrop
at Notre tonight Earl Anderson.
on top, even when the score was 2-1 showing the way, the Irish started Dame as the <2-15-17) and Steve Curry (4-12-16)
second place Fighting Irish host That trio will have to carry theafter the second period." to control the action and kept the give Kronholm top-notch defensive Most of the Irish felt that way. Bulldogs bottled up in their lown seventh place North Dakota in the scoring load if the Sioux are to help and add offensiveipunchto the opener of a two-game, total goals upset the Irish. Anderson 04-26­
But Notre Dame's victory wasn't end much of the time. high-scoring Irish lineup.
series. 40) is second to Cahoon for team
locked up until Eddie Bumbacco, The turning point came when Sophomore Les Larson (1-6-7) is
In actuality, today and scoring honors, Drader 07-14-31)
the WCHA scoring champion,lfired UMD's Pokey Traschel was given also available for spot defensive
Tuesday's games will be consider­leads the club in goals scored anda slap shot by Bulldog goalie a two minute penalty for charging duty.
ed as a single, 120-minute contest, Hangslaben has produced 26 points
'Jerome Mrazek at 11:11 of the final at 10:39. Thirty-two seconds later, Co-captain Paul Regan ( 13-19-32)
with the winner of the series being on 13 goals and 13 assists.
period. Bumbacco's rifle shot from the centers Notre Dame's second linethe club that scores the most goals North Dakota's other linesAt the outset, it looked like the right faceoff circle whistled past for Ray DeLorenzi (20-16-36) and
in the two games. consist of Kelly Cross (6-8-14)
Irish might turn Saturday's game the screened Mrazek, who didn't Larry Israelson (10-9-19) and Pat
Notre 1Dame is presently the centering for Dennis Johnson (4-8­
into .a runaway, scoring two goals see the puck until it was in the net, <7-11-18) for
Conroy centers the"hottest" club in the WCHA, 12) and Gerry Miller (13-15-28),in the first five minutes. and the issue was all but decided. 
third set of Irish forwards, skatingwinning 16 of its last 19 league and Rick Clubbe (7-11-28) skating
. Paul Regan and Larry Israelson, Noble's power-play goal at 17:04 between Jim Augustine (0-1-1} and
games, including the last five between Tony Palmiscno (4-0-4)
who accounted for Notre Dame's reassured even the most nervous Ric Schafer (6-6-12).
straight, and capturing 18 of its and Bob Law (7-6-13).
last goal Friday, combined to tally Irish rooters. Two other key performers for
last 20 points while staging a Henry <3-12-15), who teams with
the first one Saturday at 3:01. Despite Friday's final score, Notre Dame this year have been 
Regan broke Israelson into the Duluth was very much in the game stretch drive that enabled them freshman Daryl Drader, heads the penalty killers Pat Novitski and
to finish only four points behind Sioux defensive crew while Tim
UMD zone and, when Israelson's until the Irish got hot midway Mike Tardani, who excel at
league champion Denver. Delmore (4.71 GAAl and Dave
shot caromed off Mrazek's pads in through the second period. Ed blocking shots from the point and
The Fighting Sioux have been Murphy <4.65 GAAl handle the
front. Regan was there to poke in O'Brien gave the Bulldogs an early aoften have disruptive effect onhaving their problems lately, goaltending chores.
the rebound. lead on a 35-foot slap shot at 2:59 the opposition's power plays.
losing All-American center Jim
Just over two minutes later, Ray and. after Williams tied the score Notre Dame is led by the high­The Irish are at the peak of their
Cahoon because of an eye injury
DeLorenzi made it 2-0 when Bill with a power play goal at 6:03, scoring line of John Noble-Eddie game right now, coming off a
and going winless in their last four 
Bumbacco-Ian Williams, the 
victory over at Michigan State, a

league games. North Dakota 
steady goaltending of Mark 
sweep of Wisconsin and their eight­

dropped two at Colorado College 
Kronholm and what Smith refers point weekend at Duluth.
Dillon and Morrissey 
!5-23) two weeks ago and, over the 
to as "the best defensemen in the "That weekend sweep should
weekend, tied Michigan 4-4 on 
league". 
help us." Smith said, sizing up his

Friday and lost, 3-2, to the last­
The Noble-Bumbacco-Williams club's chances against North
place Wolverines (4-24-1> Saturday 
combination is the most potent in Dakota. "I'd like to think that our
win lnterhall meets 
in Grand Forks. 
collegiate hockey. Bumbacco won momentum will carry t}}rough the
Although the Irish finished
by Greg Corgan 56 seconds flat, and Walt Mills of the 
the WCHA scoring championship playoffs. We can't relax at all,
year with a 19-9 league record (48
Led by senior John Hoppe, Howard, who set a new IH record this year with the third highest though."
points l and North Dakota wound
Morrissey Hall captured the h1, for the mile with a clocking of four point total in league history (31-34-The Irish and North Dakota met
up 13-15-2 !32 points), Notre Dame
terhall track championship minutes forty-three and five-tenths 65>. Williams (26-30-56) was early in February, playing an
coach "Lefty" Smith isn't already
1\londay night, outdistancing seconds. 
runner-up to Bumbacco and Noble eight-pointer at the ACC which
Cavanaugh, 24-19. Off-Campus looking forward to next weekend
In other intramural competition <18-32-50) finished in a tie for ended in a split. Notre Dame won
placed third with a total of 14 and the series that could send his
last week Dillon Hall completely fourth place. the first game, 9-3, but lost the
points. club to Boston for the NCAA
overpowered the rest of the field in Kronholm (4.04 GAA> has been second, 3-2.
Hoppe finished first in the championship.
winning the Interhall . Swimming consistent in the nets all year and "We've got a score to settle with
hurdles with a time of 6.3 and set "The players and myself thought 
Meet. The "Big Red" amassed \1 has been outstanding in the stretch them for that defeat," Smith said. 
an Interhall record while winning that North Dakota was one of the
total of 82 points to secor'ld-,Pf~ drive. "When the pressure gets up, Faceoff tonight and Tuesday will 
the long jump with a leap of 20feet better clubs we faced this season,"
l''lanner's 45 by pla<;i.Dg·' fin;t in Mark gets up too," Smith has said. be at 7:30.
8'~ inches. Tim Balzar took Smith said Saturday night on the 
seven of the ~ «>Vtmts.

another first for Morrissey, setting way back from Duluth, where his 

Discover the World on Your 

a new Interhall mark of six feet Sopho""""e Dan Murtagh team had grabbed second place by 
starred for Dillon, taking firsts in·
two inches in the high jump. sweeping an eight-pointer from the 
the 200-yard freestyle, 50-yard SEMESTER AT SEA
f'ootball player Art Best pla<;ed UMD Bulldogs, 8-2 and 4-1. 
butterfly. and 50-yard backstroke. Sails each September & February
first in the 50-yard dash for "(All Henry and (Alan) Cavanaugh which also, behind the John Long, John Belcher, and Hangslab.en are two very good Combine accredited study with
Mark Herr also had first place
efforts of AI Samuels, Bill Werly, players and the team as a whole educational stops in Africa, Aus­
finishes to pace the winners.

Cliff Bourie and Tom Hansen, won has good speed and size." 
tralasia and the Orient. Over 7500 the mile relay. Off-Cpmpus ac­Flanner managed to total its 45 The loss of Cahoon 04-32-46), the students from 450 campuses havecounted for most of its points with points with a win In the 200-yard club's Itop scorer, weakens North already experienced this interna­a win in the R80-yard relay and a medley relay, a second in the 200-Dakota's offense and, indirectly, tional program. A wide range of2:tl3 first place finis~ by Upley in yard fr~style relay and on the its defense as well. Coach Rube

1 financial aid is available. Write
the 880-yard dash. merits of Tom Lyons, Jim Igoe, Bjorkman has moved Hangslaben, now for free catalog:
Other winners were Roger and Norm IBower. the WCHA's Freshman'pf the Year ~urrel of Lyons, who won the 44(1 in (continued on page 7) last season, from his usual , Box CC40, Orange, Cal. 92666 




