On The Inside 
Interview ...page 3 Lowenstein 
Father Griffin ... page 7 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VIII, No. 44 Friday, November 9, 1973 
School to open August 28 
Classes will resume prior to Labor Day 
Staff Reporter by Terry Keeney 
Notre Dame and St. Mary's will begin classes for the 1974-75 fall semester on Wednesday, August 28, informed university sources revealed yesterday. 
Administration officials were reluctant to comment on the proposed calendar until after its formal release scheduled for next Friday, November 16. But University Registrar, Richard Sullivan, who refused to release the calendarnonetheless, explained the rationale for the pre-Labor Day start. 
"From the academic point of view we had to lengthen the fall semester to guarantee that we had the required number of class days, said Sullivan. 
Sullivan observed that, if the University wanted to continue the practice of ending the fall semester before Christmas, an earlier start was necessary. 
Sr. John Miriam Jones, assistant to the provost, did not know the ~specifics of the new schedule. "I'm sure we're going to start in August, but I don't know the date," she said. 
For the past four years, the fall semster has ended before Christmas. During this time, classes could not start before Labor Day because of a trailer show, according to Sr. John Miriam. 
The Midwest Mobile, Modular 
and Recreational Verhicle Show, 
each Labor Day weekend occupied 
much of the campus. "When 
they're here the whole campus is 
encumbered," said Sr. John 
Miriam. 
The university contract with the mobile vehicle show expired this year, enabling the university to start before Labor Day. 
Dean of Administration Leo 
Cm·baci refused to comment on the 
new schedule until its release next 

Sullivan: refused to release calendar 
week. Cm·baci, whose office is responsible for compiling the schedule, said, "I'd prefer to keep the hush up agreement." 
Frederick Crosson, dean of the College of Arts and Letters, said he has received no official word of the new calendar. 
"I gather from the newspapers and the Tribune that the calendar has been established. But I haven't been given a schedule," Crosson said. 
Dr. William Hie key, vice­president for academic affairs at St. Mary's emphasized that the calendar would apply to both Notre Dame and St. Mary's. 
"There is every intention on the part of both schools to have a common calendar," he said. 
Corbaci: " ...prefers to keep the hugh up agreement." 
Hickey contended that there has been no "firm, final decision" about the new calendar. But he countered, "There is a definite leaning toward a ·particular calendar. It may very well be a calendar that begins before Labor Day." 
The Law School will remain unaffected by the schedule change. Law registration will begin August 22, compared with the August 23 registration date this semester. 
Fr. Ferdinand Brown, associate provost, and Richard Conklin, director of information services, refused to comment about the proposed calendar. 
University Provost James Burtchaell and Assistant Provost William Burke were unavailable for comment. 
Tomorrovv. • • 

''I • 
t .. 
l' 
I • 
..... in the dining halls and around campus' 

Israel, Egypt c;tgree to pact averting vvar 
By United Press International 
In a dramatic breakthrough for Secretary of State Henry Kissinger's personal diplomacy, 
U.S. officials said Thursday Israel and Egypt had agreed to a five-point pact averting a new war in the Middle East. 
The settlement of the immediate military situation, according an earlier broadcast by the Israeli government radio, includes: -Liftin!l of the blockage of the Egyptian Third Army and Suez City to bring in supplies to beleaguered troops. -Prompt exchange of prisoners of war. -Lifting of the blockade of Eilat, Israel's gateway to Red Sea. -Egyptian and Israeli commanders to discuss :straightening out cease­fire lines. -Future negotiations between Arabs and Israelis for a final settlement. 
Official announcement of the agtrement will be made simultaneously in Washington, Cairo, and Tel Aviv on Friday. The officials said they first must communicate complete details of the breakthrough to U.N. Secreatry General Kurt Waldheim. 
Kissinger, buoyant from a new diplomatic victory behind him and speaking of permanent peace in the Middle East, arrived in Saudi Arabia Thursday for talks on peace and oil. 
They said the two sides might open direct negotiations for a permanent settlement before the end of the year. It would be the first time for the Arabs and Israelis to sit down together at the peace table. 
''We are perhaps for the first time at the opening of a true peace settlement between us and the Arabs," said Israeli Defense Minister Moshe Dayan said of the agreement. "Per­haps, too, the world of yesterday, of a stalemate following a cease-fire will not return." 
Egypt reacted by saying that, contrary to reports, Egypt had not agreed to lift the blockade of Bab el Mandeb strait, the southern gateway to the Red Sea. 
The Cairo newspaper Al Ahram, however, listed Bab el Mandeb among the elements on which steps are being taken to pave the way for an Arab­Israeli peace conference. 
Word of the agreement first came from Israel government radio and Israeli newspapers said the plan calls for Israel eventually to pull back its troops from Egypt and the Suez Canal and for Cairo to withdraw its 2nd and 3rd armies from the east bank of the canal. They said peace talks reportedly would begin within two months. 
Israeli sources said Prime Minister Golda Meir's govern­ment accepted the peace plan Thursday ,following final talks with. Joseph .J. Sisco, assistant secretary of 1 state for near eastern affairs. 
...-------------·­

Frif.tlv, ~r 9, •a 
world 

briefs 
Washington--Watergate prosecutor Leon ~aworski tes~ified Thursday that he has been promised the authonty to sue Preside~t Nixon to obtainWhiteHouse documents and sees no need for his office to be established by law. 
Jaworski, appointed by President Nixon Nov~mb~r 1 t~ replace 
fired special prosecutor Archibald Cox sought m his tesb.mony to 
discourage a House judiciary subcommittee from 8-bill for a 
Watergate prosecutor totally independent of the executive branch. 
Washington--Former Attorney General Elliot L. Richardson testified before the Senate Judiciary Committee Thursday, that the White House talked about "getting rid of" special Watergate prosecutor Archibald Cox two months after he started his in­vestigation. 
Washington--The House will v,ote on. confir~1ation of House Republican Leader Gerald R. Ford as viCe president the week of Dec. 3, it was announced Thursday. 
Washington--Agriculture Department economists predicted Thursday that the current decline in grocery prices will end in early 1974 and then begin to climb at a n~oderate pace. The. exper~s said, however, that the January-June mcrease m food pnces will not reach the record levels of last August. 
Jessup, MD.-About 40 Maryland state policemen, using 
shotguns, tear gas and an armored vehicle, stormed the education 
building of the maximum-security Patuxent Institute Thursday, 
freeing 14 hostages who were held two hours by nine inmates. 
During hand-to-hand combat between police and the inmates, 
five persons--three hostages, one inmate and a police sergeant­
were injured. One guard suffered multiple stab wounds. 
Washington--President Nixon formally asked Congress Thursday 
to quickly enact emergency legislation empowering him to ration 
gas and heating oil. 
Following up his broadcast speech to the nation Wednesday night 
on the nation's energy crisis, the President sent a special message 
to the House and Senatt outlining his proposals. Nixon's request 
came as Federal Power Commission Chairman John N. Nassikas 
and Sen .Henry M. Jackson agreed at a hurriedly called hearing of 
Jackson's Senate Interior Committee that there is no way to avoid 
gasoline rationing unless Americans drastically reduce con­
sumption. · 
The committee already has a bill which would grant sweeping new 
authority forthe President to force the bureaucracy to conserve 
fuel, to allocate or ration fuen, require power plants to use coal 
instead of oil, and to relax clean-air standards for the time being so 
that relatively high-pollutant fuels can be used. 

an campus l:aday 
friday, november 9 

6, 10,12 p.m.--film, the reivers, k of c 7, 9, 11 p.m.--film, summer of '42, eng. aud. 
8 p.m.--duplicate bridge, university club! 
8:15 p.m.--concert, .collegiate choir, o'laughlin aud. 9:30-1:30 p.m.--coffeehouse, smc lower level cafeteria 
saturday, november 10 6, 10, 12 p.m.--film, the reivers, k of c 8 p.m.--concert, crosby and nash, ace 
B: 15 p.m.--recital, dana spencer, little theatre 
sunday, november 11 
2 p.m.--organization meeting, nd science fiction association, 2-d Iafortune 2 and B p.m.--film, charley, o'laughlin aud. 
6:30 p.m.--byzantine liturgy, holy cross chapel B p.m.--lecture, george mcgovern, stepan center B p.m.--lecture, jerry wurf, lib. aud. 


at nd-smc 

Now You Know 
The world's champion "best man" is Wally Gant of England who has officiated at least 50 times. 
The longest distance for a champagne cork to fly is 73 ft., 10 
•h inches in England, 1971. 
The ·iongest period of time for whiCh a modern painting has hung upsid~. down .in a ·public• gallery unQqficed is ..47 days/: .'.:;. '_-. 
McGovern to speak Sunday 
Senator GeorgeS. McGovern of November 11. South Dakota, defeated McGovern's talk is sponsored by Democratic presidential can­the Student Bar Association of the didate in 1972, will discuss con­Law School and the Student Union temporary politics at a public talk Academic Commission. Charles in Stepan Center at 8 p.m. Sunday, Nau, lecture chairman of the Bar 
ND student suspects in attentpted assault 
by Tony Proscio Staff Reporter 
Two Notre Dame students are suspects, according to ND Security, in an attempted assault on a St. Mary's junior late last Thursday. SMC Security Director Anthony Kovatch says his office is waiting for a positive identification of one of the two men before filing ol formal complaint. 
The girl was approached between the St. Mary's library and science buildings around 9 p.m. by a man who came up to her, exposed himself, and put his arms around her. Kovatch said, "She resisted him and escaped unharmed." 
"We picked up the first suspect Friday night," he continued. "The girl had given us a good ID, but she couldn't positively identify the man we brought in." Security police then found the second suspect, he said. 
"This is our first problem with a Notre Dame man," he noted. "The first incident (an attempted assualt in early September) did not involve a Notre Dame student." A South Bend resident is being held in that case. 
The girl described her assailant as a "white male, 5'10", 160 pounds, with long, black hair tied back with a headband, and wore wire-rimmed dark glasses. He had a mustache and beard and wore an army fatigue jacket and blue jeans." The man was from 19 to 21 years old, Kovatch said, and escaped on a yellow 10-speed bicycle. 
"She ran back to Madaleva hall," he continued, "and called her roommate. The roommate called us, and Security was there in a few seconds. If other girls that have problems would call right away like that, security could do much more." 
He added that plans are being considered for a front gate at St. Mary's to regulate incoming traffic at night. An ad­ditional road to provide one way routes in both directions is also a possibility, he said. 
"We've been fortunate," com­mented Dean of Students Kathleen Mulaney, "in that no one has been hurt. Both girls (referring also to the September incident) kept their cool and handled their situations very 


:~~:;:::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::' 
t!Stat•onary 20% off::~: Cards :1 with this ad. (



§~~~~··''':;:;'::;,,,,,,,,,,,,,,.,,,iX~~:.~~:: 
town&countr/\n"':.-f"Ji"'~-;.1 2340 miracle lane Arf shopping center ~~,\.~·.mishawaka, indiana 46544 supplie C: 
y 
The Observer is published dally during the college semester except vacaiions by the stuaents of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased tor S8 per semester ($14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame. Ind. 46556. 
256""01 T1 
! 
well. We urge girls, if anything like this should happen to them, to get in touch with security right away. They'll be treated con­

(continued on page 4) 
Association, was a member of the 
1970  McGovern  Commission  on  
Party Reform.  
Sunday's  talk  will  be  

McGovern's third Notre Dame appearance in recent years. He debated the morality of the Vietnam war with Senator Gail McGee of Wyoming at a 1967 symposium and was a speaker at a Brademas-Hartke rally in 1970. He is a candidate for reelection South Dakota next year. 
McGovern's talk is part of the Robert F. Kennedy Lecture Series on the campus. Other noted figures speaking at previous lectures include Frank Mankiewicz, manager of the Kennedy campaign, and Charles 
Evers, outspoken black politician. 


SMC SOCIAL COMMISSION PRESENTS 

CHARLEY 
7:30 pm 

Sun. Nov. 11 3:30pm 
Admission $1 
O'Laughlin Auditorium 
Jim 
'63 

Chuck 
'65

1723 S. Bend Avenue 272-9800 
Drummond Bros. Beer If you like Coor's --this is what you've been missing. 
A Distillery-Golden Exclusive From West of the Mississippi 
EAST ONE DISON-LEFT AT Ll NE BACKER 200 yds. on left 10 percent DISCOUNT ON CASES OF LIQUOR AND WINE 
~Youth 



Passport 
Only $3 -it's a tremendous buy! 
• 
Discounts on Thos. Cook & Son Travelers Cheques, and free mail drop at their worldwide offices. 

• 
One third off on our coach fares within the U.S. on a standby basis, plus discounts on over 20 other airlines in the U.S., Canada and within Europe. 

• 
Ski discounts at major resorts in the Rockies. 

• 
Discounts at Hilton, Sheraton, Pick and many other outstanding hotels. 

• 
Discounts in Europe on the purchase, lease or rental of automobiles. 

• 
Additional discounts at over 700 establishments in 16 countries around the world-ali listed in the new Youth Passport Directory. 


Get your TWA Youth 
Passport at the Notre 
Dame Travel Bureau. 
·: '!',', 
I., , '.',', ........ 

~--~~~~-~.~.~.~.~.~.~:~:~:~·~,~.~.~.~.~.~~~~--~~--------.J 





Is the University's Food Service still purchasing union lettuce? 
Mr. Price's office make it perfectly clear that the University is still purchasing only lettuce picked by The United Farmworkers Union for use in the Dining Halls. We hope that answers your question, but if it doesn't we recommend that you get in touch with either Mr. Price's office at 7253 or with Mary Clare Molidor at 8082 who heads up the Food Advisory Committee. 
What ever happened to the Film Club? 
To the best of our knowledge, there has never been a Notre Dame group by that name. However, there is an organization that does deal with filmmaking and is known as Kinetascope Filmaking. It is .headed by Edward Earle who can be reached at 23:)-4176. As to specifics about the group, there are none available :,s of this time. 
How do you remove felt tip pen marks from light colored clothing? 
One of the best ways of handling that difficulty is to use ink salt. However, this is an industrial chemical which one probably couldn't obtain. Therfore, we recommend talking to the ND Laundry Service which contrary to public belief is quite able to handle such matters. If you are an Off-campus student or student spouse, it is still possible to get aid on occasion from the ND Laundry Service so long as you are willing to pay the cost of the service rendered which is usually very reasonable. 
Who can I talk to about information concerning the Society of Ujamma? 
The man you seek goes by the name of Robert McCrady and can be found at 1013 Lawrence. His home phone is 232..0389 and his business number is 8748. 

Around Campus 
Friday, November 9, 1973 
The Notre Dame Jazz Combo made its premiere Thursday night in the ma~n lounge of LaFortune. Featured players were: Nick Talarico, trom­bone; Charles Rohrs, tenor sax; John Yakacki, organ and piano; Niel Gillespie, organ and piano; Bill Boris, guitar; Mike Nickerson, bass; and Ken Scarola, drums. (Photos by Ed Brower) 
Page 3 
•


Lowenstein ln depth 
by Ann McCarry Staff Reporter 

Allard Lowenstein unob­strusively entered the crowded Keenan-Stanford chapel. Wearing a rumpled, bargain-basen1ent suit, a dirty ski parka slung over his arm, a worn manila folder bulging with references tucked underneath the other, he bore more resem­blance to an absent-minded professor than a dynamic politician. 
He looked a little uncomfortable as he sat down, but then a Catholic chapel isa bit foreign to a Jewish politician As his former aide, Ed Davey, introduced him, Lowenstein oriented himself to the surroundings. 
An assorted assembly of three hundred people filled the chapel, their presence not unlike their attendance at the liturgy usually held there. Their search was the same. They were looking for wisdom, for truth, for honesty, for a restoration of the faith they had lost in their government in recent days. They were waiting. 
Davey completed his greeting and Lowenstein unpretenciously approached the podium. Suddenly he was no longer a seemingly shy, middle-aged man. He exploded instead into the energetic, responsive Allard Lowenstein that Notre Dame has loved and sup­ported throughout the years, the Allard Lowenstein that had been named the Senior Class Fellow of 1970. 
He appeared to sp~ak ex­temporaneously. Often, however, a smooth transition a hasty ruffling of the information stock­pile in his manila folder, followed by a quote or a statistic betrayed preparation. 
Lowenstein spoke vigorously with a vivacious wit and well­timed sense of humor that delighted his audience as they seemed, in turn, to please him. He spoke from his heart, with con­viction and logic and an openess that promoted the rapport of a kitchen table bull session. 
And the talk became such a discussion. The crowd dissipated but some stayed, at Lowenstein's invitation, to speak more in­formally in a situation that per­mitted more intimcy and allowed 
the consideration of more discreet nature.  topics of  a  
Hope and Idealism  
Lowenstein  changed  into  a  

sports shirt now. He sat on the back of a pew, his shoes off, sip­ping a Coke, promoting the use of name-and-hometown introductions to make his guests and himself feel more at home. He answered questions even more freely now, permitting a little more of his 

"Most  people.  . .  cheat  "Kids from this university can  
themselves as well as others."  deal openly in a way no others  
can."  
emotion  and  sentiment  to  shine  would question his determination.  
through.  He talked of the coming  Lesson that Remains  
elections, his possible candidacy,  
the  power of the people and  the  The tension between ideals and  
people who ahd made substantial impressions on his life. Itwas at this time, as he spoke of Robert Kennedy, that pain and  practicalities is not peculiar to the life of a politician, Lowenstein explained. "Every man has two basic needs: love and com­ 
sorrow registered most clearly in his expression. Yet, he haunted his listeners posivively, reminding them not of the horror of Ken­ mittment. If you have requitted love," he continued, "this gives you the security to fulfill com­mittments. The loss of an election  
nedy's death in 1968 but of the hope and idealism our country had once  isn't so much in comparison to the !Q~ of your !amily and friends."  


Observer lnsi,.ht 
held in its heart. He assured them 
that, in time, this hope could come again. 
Comforted, the majority of the lingering crowd faded into the November night that had brought them to the sanctuary and in­
troduced them  to  Allard Lowen­ 
stein.  
Drawn  by  the  warmth  and  

magnetism that flows from this humble Brooklyn man, a few tarried in hopes of gaining still more of an insight into Allard Lowenstein, the man. 
A quick trip to the Huddle refreshed the tired politician. Shortly, he sat in Davey's room munching an apple, calmy chat­tering with his followers. 
Lowenstein relaxed now. He removed his socks and shoes as if casting aside the last guise of pro forma formality and talked honestly about the political as well as thepolitical. 
"How can you keep going? How can you continue to pursue the life that you do?" queried one student. 
The two-time 1970 loser seemed a bit offended and surprised that one 
"What can we -·do?" asked another. 
Lowenstein smiled slowly as if embarrassed by the weight of the compliment he was about to pay. 
"There is no place," he said of Notre Dame, "that has, per capita, more interested or intelligent people...Kids from this university can deal openly in a way no others can." 
He continued more generally. 
"Most people never make an effort which extends themselves; they cheat themselves as well as others. When people extend themsleves it is not a hurt or a sacrifice .. .it produces something better in themselves...produces a ripple that can better society." 
Lowenstein donned his socks and 
shoes. He still had to drive to 
Elkhart before his day would end. 
Another Lowenstein visit to 

Notre Dame had come to an active 
end. The lessons he taught will 
remain, however. 
For the New York politician 
brought more than a folder of old 
clippings and a store of anecdotes. 
He brought hope. 

Jazz at Nine 


LaFortune Committee meets 
Alternate reno plans suggested 
by R. Thomas Thues Staff Reporter 
The LaFortune Renovation Committee met yesterday to discuss problems concerning the proposed Irish Pub construction. At the meeting Vice President of Studetn Mfairs Philip Faccenda suggested a redirection of the committee's efforts. 
Although the Board of Trustees rejected the first bid of $244,000 for Pub construction they suggested an alternate plan which would include renovation of the Hoynes Building (Psychology Depart­ment), the mall, and the possible 
Pitt agenda 

includes parties. 
Irish football 
by Tony Proscio Staff Reporter 

Parties and a football game are on the weekend agenda for Irish fans going to Pittsburgh today. Pitt Club President Bob Brennan said approximately 120 Notre Dame and St. Mary's students will leave this afternoon on busses rented by the club. 
A pre-game party, featuring music, dancing and special guests, is planned for this evening in the Grand Ballroom of the William Penn Hotel in downtown Pitt­sburgh. The party is for all ND fans in town, and is not restricted to club members, Brennan said. 
Another party will take place in the hotel after the game as well. The hotel clerk will have in­formation on the location, he ad­ded. 
"We're confident the trip will be a success," Brennan commented, "and we guarantee the Fighting Irish that Pittsburgh harbors the staunchest ND fans, even when they play Pitt." 
The club and local fans will especially be cheering their man, Tom Clements, who "moved from the Golden Triangle to play under the Golden Dome," he said. 
Suspect students attempt assault 
(continued from page 2) 
fidentially." 

Men disguised as janitors and repairmen have entered some halls. she added, but do not have regulation uniforms bearing an 
' official badge. No break-ins have 
.:~ 'I been reported . ,j i "We are also working with the Rape-Crisis Center in South Bend," Mulaney noted, "which is being extablished right now. Girls who are victims of rape can turn to the counselling staff, hall staffs or our offece for assistance." Efforts to educate female 1students on both campuses in self­
~ 
deferl<>.~ .te underway, she con­
tinued. Films make by the South Bend Police Department and self­protection booklets are beiru! of­fered through security offices, a course in self-protection-was recently given to St. Mary's RA's. Booklets ar<! also available from the Dean of Students office,. she said. 
construction of a small adjoining 
building, said Faccenda. 

Among Faccenda 's suggestions 
for redirection were moving the 
Pub to first floor LaFortune as an 
extention of the Huddle, creating a 
large second-floor room for private 
parties, and reshuffling the up­
stairs offices. 

Ken Knevel, a fifth-year ar­
chitecture student, said he wanted 
to see LaFortune project a "living 
room atn10sphere." It was aga:inst 
the philosophy of the project, he 
added, to move the Pub upstairs 
making the first floor into a 
restaurant. He also expressed his 
reservations concerning the 
Ellerbe Architects' % million 
dollar estimate for the Pub. 
"I'm happy with the plans we've 
drawn up for LaFortune," said 
Knevel. He continued that he felt 
the figure for the Pub was 
outrageous. 

In further discussion the com­
mittee considered Faccenda's 
suggestion to move student 
publications to the Hoynes 
Building and Student Mfairs .and 
Lathers resigns 
from SLC Board of Commissionters 
by Joseph LaFlare Staff Reporter 

Maureen Lathers resigned from the Board of Commissioners last month. Since then, no one has been elected to replace her. 
"I felt that the work needed to do a good job just took up too much of my time," Lathers said. She felt that someone else with more time could do a better job. 
According to Dennis Etienne, Student Body President, "I had a replacement in mind, but the Board of Commissioners decided to nominate some more people and give the decision some more consideration." 
The Board of Commissioners has 
been very busy with SLC meetings 
lately, and have not yet had the 
opportunity to decide on a new 
member yet. According to 
Etienne, a new member should be 
elected next week or sometime in 
the near future. 

.

_! I ·STARTS TODAY .r 
STREISAND 
&REDFORD 



TOGETHERI THE 
WAY WE WERE 


Start your v.eekend at ... 


Bulla Shed 
( Corner of Bulla and Juniper across from Grace Tower) :· 
:··..: 
. 
.·· 


Faccenda suggest redirection of MASS AND DINNER committee's efforts. 
Friday 5:00 p.m. 
mittees work has been primarily in he development of the philosophy of the building, but added, "I still feel that the Pub should be in 
there." The committee wilL suspend planning until the officers meet again next week. 
campus clubs to upstairs LaFortune. 
Knevel noted that this would entail a great deal of reshuffling of plans. In reaction to this statement the point was raised that 
plans are no longer coming from the committee_ Faccenda asked the committee 
to "sit tight for another ten daysuntil the officers of the University have a chance to approve any committee action." 
Knevel noted that the com-


I 


• .6 II • • •
'i.'(~l"'.-~· ... 1!.~,,,~ ...-.. 1'·.·~:1·· •·.. ~·· '"1·.··'·~.. \t .,.... ,., • 
......., 

~ 
·~· • ~ -• '..!. 
·, In thtt.<OidJ(,afqnt'.a,'Srewery 
~
1 ....
. ··--·· ....... .,; ... ~; ~-.. .;.;. ............ ,. ..... "' ............ . 

LONIJON: PA-Ris; ANTWERP, ROTTERDAM. SYDNEY. MElBOURNE. TORONTO. MONTREAL. VANCOUVER, NEW YORK. PH ILl DETROIT. PITTSBURGH. 

New experiences await you in the ancient cellars beneath the Pier. We built the Pier in the old brewery on Center Street. Now we've turned it's ancient cellars into shops. What better place? Its walls have weathered the creaks and groans and joys of life since 1858. It's an intimate and earthy place to browse and shop. The old cellars, beneath the Pier. 



Centers solve doctor shortage 

by Jeanne Murphy Staff Reporter 

In the Nineteenth Century Malthus developed his theory that population increases at a faster rate than its means of subsistence. 
In 1973, the population is still increasing and we are faced with a problem similar to Malthus' theory. The population is growing but the number of physicians graduating from medical school remains static. 
How do we solve this crisis before it is too late? 
The state of Indiana was a pioneer in taking steps to relieve the problem pragmatically and realistically by developing a regional center program ad­ministered by Indiana University Medical School using the facilities of van(JUS neighboring univer­sities. 
Increase and distribute 

In 1967, Governor Edgar Whit­comb commissioned the "Indiana Plan" which was to in­crease the number of graduates from the Indiana University School of Medicine in as short a time as possible without a major capital expenses or the building of ad­ditional educational facilities. The plan established seven regional centers for medical education for first-year students. 
Even though the centers have a 
cooperative agreement with their 
respective universities' facilities, 
these schools are not connected 
administratively or academically 
with the program. 
The regional centers are located 
all over Indiana, thus spreading 
the medical opportunities to all Bend at Notre Dame, Bloomington, Lafayette, Muncie, 
Terre Haute, Evansville, and Gary. The Notre Dame center is in the basement of the Wenninger-Kirsch building. 
Thomas A. Troeger, M.D. director of the Notre Dame center, claims that the goal of the regional program is to increase the number of doctors in Indiana and to im­prove the distribution of the physicians in the entire state. He believes the plan can increase the number of doctors in Indiana by one-third without delay and without spending $150 million to build a new state medical school. 
The seven regional centers are "advantageous" in that they af­ford small class sizes with a future minimum of twenty-four in a class said, Dr. Troeger. Importantly, they have increased the total number in the I.U. Med School freshman class by thirty percent. This year's freshman class totals 301 versus the 250 freshman three years ago. Fourteen first-year students are located at the South Bend center at Notre Dame. 
In previous years, there have been at !eat two to three Notre Dame graduates in the school, according to Troeger, but this year there is only one. 
This program enables the students to have easy access to instructors. It also gives students an opportunity to attend classes close to home. Through the plan, med students have immediate contact with physicians and patients by doing clinical work in surrounding communities. 
Senior "elective year" 

A pilot program began seven 

residents. Centers are in South years ago with two students in the center at Notre Dame and two atThree astronauts Purdue to see if other educational institutions other than the Med in good COnditiOn School in Indianapolis could 
for next flight 
CAPE CANAVERAL (UPI)­Astronauts Gerald P. Carr, Edward G. Gibson and William 
R. Pogue were declared in good physical condition Tuesday and did some last minute training for Saturday's blastoff on a record-length Skylab 3 space missibn. 
"The prime crew completed the last major pre-flight exami­nation today and the crewmen are cleared medically for the anticipated launch," said Dr. Royce Hawkins, the astronauts' chief physician at the Johnson Space Center in Houston. 
provide the basic sciences which freshman med students study, said Troeger. Courses in the freshman year include biochemistry, 
Computing Center Mini-Course in Fortran Programming For Beginners 
Nov. 12, 13, 15 7pm, Rm. 113 Computing Center 

SJ. 0_0oo, , _ SOON()~
SAVE . ' . . . . . . -~tUft~~ 
'· • • • • • ' • • • · • • · • • • 421 Hickory Rd. 
' .' 
:. l -' .. \ .. \ ' 


Observer lnsir:.ht 
microbiology, anatomy, and physiology. Pathology and pharmacology are offered first­semester sophomore years. 
Microbiology and biochemistry are taught by Notre Dame professors and the other courses are instructed by IU faculty with offices at Notre Dame. There are only two other full-time faculty members besides Troeger, Jerry Critz and Jack O'Malley, both Ph.D's. O'Malley is also associate director for the program at Notre Dame. 
Only freshman are located at the regional centers. During sophomore and junior years, students merge at the main school in Indianapolis. Troeger hopes to enroll a sophomore class at the Notre Dame center by 1975. 
Senior year is an "elective year" in which students can select their school location. They choose from a curriculum of 480 courses rotating in clinical procedures throughout the fifty-six community hospitals in Indiana, as well as in 148 physician's offices. 
Helping internship recruitment 
During the freshman year, the students take part in what Troeger calls "Saturday Clinical Correlation Courses." These sessions are meeting with private practitioners in which students watch and question a doctor in the hospital and sometimes in his office to bring together what the student has seen and what he has learned in class. 
Troeger claims that freshmen think whatever they learn in the classroom is applicable to the bedside. "The conferences help to correlate the material between class and practice. I think this is stimulating to the student," Troeger suggested. 
Applications to the school are reviewed by one committee at the Indianapolis campus whether the student is attending a regional center or the main campus. Requirements are the same at any other medical school. Each student is permitted to select program preference and campus site. Once accepted, ninety-five percent receive their first campus choice which the remaining five percent are located at their second choice, Troeger said. He also stated that very few out-of-state students are accepted. 

Besides increasing the fresman class enrollment and distributing the doctors throughout the state, the IU plan has been successful in improving recruitments for residency and internship at community hospitals. In fact, this system has been so successful, that forty other states have initiated similar programs, according to Dr. Steven Beering, associate dean and director of the statewide program. 
get out ol the cold... 


Ride the Off. Campus Shuttle 
only 
1o~ 


The 







LovingCup 

t I ~ "' -"', t I ", , 1, I , f, 

THE OBSERVE.R 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Art Ferranti Executive Editor 
Lee Gentine Business Manager 

Here we go again! 
The Observer has discovered that on Nov. 16, the University will release their calendar for the 1974-75 school year and it's nearly the same schedule that students here have been fighting against for three years now. 
It's kind of incredible because we've been here before. 
The Past Repeats 

Wednesday, Marclt 8, 1972 • "1972-73 schedule starts classes early" blared The Observer headlines. The university explained that the semester was too short and that more class days were needed. Further they claimed that the early start was necessitated by a mid-semester break. The final justification offered was that it followed the trend being established by other Indiana schools. The article admitted that student response was negative. 
Thursday, March 9, 1972 ·· "Students try to change the new calendar" was the . , headline on the second day lead about the calendar in The Observer. 
t 
Friday's issued revealed in an Ob· server poll that 79 percent of the students were not in favor of the calendar. On March 14, we published that over 3400 students had signed petitions disfavoring the change. Finally, on April 5, the 
Academic Council bent to the student response and changed the pre-Labor day opening. 
A Mobile Escape 

Last year, the new calendar was to have started before Labor Day again, but the Mobile Home show interfered with the new academic calendar, so the plan had to be scrapped until the contract with the show and the ACC ran out. Well, the contract runs out next year and the students get stuck because of it. 
Lost Work Time 

The students should be very much against the new calendar again. It drastically shortens the summer working 
daanesbur 
~ {if~
.r"t<JftJ~ YEAH, WEU OON'16£T
~ 
~ /10NIJI1ENTSi YOIJR HOPES 
~ llfi\ 1'11 MOSTlY VP. We'U BE 
"C '" !NTERESTE/J WCI<.Y IFI!/E

f 
~ ~ IN 110Nt/11ENTSI FINO ANY..

r 
'· I 

Jerry Lutlkus Editor-'in-Chief  Dan Barrett Executive Editor  
NEWS:  283-17'15  
EDITORIALS:  283-8661  John Kloos  
BUSINESS:  ?113-7471  Advertising Manager  

Friday, November 9, 1973 


Deia Vu 

season for many students resulting in considerably smaller total earnings. From all indilcations, the average wage level of Notre Dame families is lower than in past years, which would further emphasize that the students need the time to earn the money and the Labor Day weekend is a crucial period for earnings. 
Further, a l'engthy break in the midst of the semester would force many of the lt.wients to go home -an expense many cannot afford-·compoundingthe problem established by a shorter possible earning calendar. 
Why Not Co-ed Dorms? 
Finally, handing us the line that it's part of a trend is nonsense. Coeducational dorms are another trend, but you don't see Notre Dame opening up coeducational living facilities. That is simply an ex<:use made up after the fact. 
The announcement of the new schedule was to be rele·ased on Nov.l8, the Sunday after The Observer's final issue before Thanksgiving break... a move un­doubtedly planned to keep students unaware of the announcement. Rumors claim that the Provost is adamant that the calendar be implemented and the planned date of release simply strengthens that claim. Only after some urging and pressure did The Observer convince University personnel to release the official version of the calendar before the termination of Observer publication. 
Two years ago considerable student pressure forced the issue and caused a change. And students are now faced with the glaring fact that such pressure must be duplicated. 
Jerry Lutkus 

the! observer 
Night Editor: Joseph Abell 
Asst. Nite Edito1·: AI Rutherford 
Layout: Maria Gallagher, Celeste Ponteri, Ann 
MeCarry Day Editor: Tet·ry Keeney Dopy Editor: Greg Rowinski Typists: Tom Modglin, Connie• Fourre, Phil Or­
scheln, Mike Seidel Compugraphic: Phil Orscheln Fact Finder: Bill Brink (Thanx Scoop) Picture Man: J. Michael Phillips Night Controller: Howard Halle 
-~--~----------... 
1 '.'1
t .., ( :'' ~ t t, ~ ... ,. " " 
·/': fl, 
'... -~ 
j'fl1 TELLINC -, 
'(CIJ1 /r<EY DON'T EXI ST 1 
I 
'~ 


P.O. Box Q 
The Male Role 
Editor: 
In all the talk about abortion, I have yet to hear any discussion, much less a solution, which takes into account the man's resposibility as impregnator. Why are men in government, education, religion always talking in terms of controlling the woman when the simplest solution rests with themselves and with the young boys who so vigorously oppose abortion. 
It seems to me the easiest way to eliminate abortion is to control the impregnator, NOT the woman already impregnated. 
One method comes to mind. A man would engage in sexual in­tercourse with a woman only when the women wanted a baby. He could continue sexual relations with her if she was convinced that he would fulfill completely his responsibilitjes as father, from the birth of the child to his-her independent adulthood. 
Otherwise, she could discontinue sexual contact with him and take care of the baby herself, as many women are forced to do anyway. 
The benefits of this system are immediately apparent. Since there would be no unwanted pregnan­cies, there would be no abortions; "Phantom fatherhood" would be impossible, and children would be cared for and loved by both parents; unwed motherhood would be cared for and by choice and welfare motherhood would be by chance (probably due to the limited skills of the mother) and society could wash its hantls of both these "non-bP· .•ul" forms of motherhood. 
Under a system of controlling the impregnator, men would be involved more directly and per­Sonally in the fight against abor­tion. It would give them an op­portunity to make a real physical pro-life commitment by sacrificing any self indulgentpursuitof sexual pleasure in order to share, with , with women, in the greater good of sexual responsibility. 
Therefore, I propose that the Right-to Life group begin to give men the recognition they deserve 
r:~arry trudeau 
·--------------------------~ 
.,;·; 


;•/,e.·,,. wasmpvmg,an._C\s~tessentia!for
§:,&'~~~-·;_ 

..• , , ; good-theatre. · · ' · ' · '.: 
------------.;....;;.--.·...;.·-~.;.,...,.-,·..:..:.a'' .. • ~.'.'.'. · · · ·.·:·::.·:.Daniel J. Daily • · ~.' -~' 
by setting up an organizatiOn 
exclusively for them. 
It could be called, "A­

Reverence-for-the-Right-To­
Give-Life." 
Agnes Miller 


Good Theatre 

Editor: 
In his criticism of J. Napier's 

column, Mr. Aiello demonstrates 
his awareness of the meaning of 
impeachment and his ignorance of 
the structural operations of our 
system of justice, both at the same 
time. Specifically, YOU CANNOT 
BRING A PERSON INTO COURT 
OF FEDERAL NATURE 
WITHOUT AN INDICTMENT 
OBTAINED BY TESTIMONY 
OF SEVERAL RELIABLE 
WITNESSES BACKED UP BY A 
SUFFICIENT AMOUNT OF 
SOLID EVIDENCE. Mr. Aiello 
thinks that if it was in all legality 
that Mr. Nixon fired Mr. Cox, then 
it is in all legality that Congress 
should impeach Mr. Nixon. It is as 
much to say that anyone may be 
indicted for taking a legal act. 
This line of thinking makes no 
sense whatsoever. 
Mr. Aiello's borrowed wisdom 

that he uses as his example of solid 
evidence is a list of charges, each 
of which has one unproven aspect, 
either it is not proven that Nixon 
had any direct link with the illegal 
act, or it is not proven that the act 
was illegal. 
That Mr. Nixon has no respect 

for the press should come as no 
great shock since the reverse is 
also true. Mr. Aiello never used 
·the titles "Mr.", or "President" 
when referring to him. I agree that 
Mr. Nixon is not above us, but he is 
certainly not benath us and 
therefore is due the respect paid 
his office. 
To say that the government is 

being taken over by the executive 
is comical. If this was the case, be 
assured that dissent on the part of 
Congress would be silenced, and 
sooner or later Mr. Aiello would 
not be allowed to write his com­
ments and have them printed. 
The statement that all the un­

democratic things that happen in 
other countries can happen here is 
a vehement insult to our Con­
stitution. It would take a lot more 
than one man in one office to make 
that true. The constitution is 
designed to prevent any one 
branch from becoming om­
nipotent. The balance has always 
been maintained, and always will 
be, which is the one things that 
distinguishes our form of govern­
ment from any other. 
In reference to Mr. Aiello's use 

of Willie Townsend's quote, and 
also as a. final comment I would 
suggest to Mr. Aiello that he seek 
employment as a scriptwriter, 
because although his pseudo-
dramatic editorial did not appeal 
_,to p1Yr s~nse of<'{atjonai· de!?ate, it 
~ 
OH, YEAH -I'/1 
StiR£ I OON'T HAVE 
.70 R.E/1/N// AN OL.' 1ROOPER L/K& YOf/. .. 
\' 


·~ ~~ 
.. 8(/T . 
w1r 

IVATCH 01/T rOR 1301'18 CRATERS. 
. 
,.. , • 


-------~------~ 
7

Friday, November 9, 1973 the observer 
Letters Ta A Lanely Ciad 

the assurances of ponies 
reverend rabert '=lriffin 
What the memory of the dead Cathy was grandfathers were never believed in by me "There he is. There's my pony." Those prevented by snow from riding, I was to Heathcliff, what the loss of Milton's as truthful men. other cuildren would believe me, though tempted to get a camera and go around the paradise was to Satan so to me inchildhood Thus the pony-cursed years of my they had similar pictures of themselves neighborhoods of Boston, taking pictures, was the death of a pony that probably never childhood began. From that time until the astrided the very same photographer's for a price, induced by Misty's un­existed. The pony was a gift promised me year I discovered sex, I lived in a fantasy­beast. But I spoke so lovingly of my pet, willingness to starve himself to death during by my grandfather as he hovered over a sick land over-ridden (no pun intended) with they wanted to believe in him too, which is January. bed on which (it was supposed) I lay dying; ponies. On Saturday mornings, I would one of the lovely ways children share fan­After a year, in the summer of 1965, I since I was only five years old, my family hitch myself up to a broomstick, which I tasies with one another. packed the children and their pony off to a did not feel I had quite out-lived my pretended was a pony I was riding, named By the summer of 1964, ten years after summer camp in Maine, where they en­usefulness. after Tom Mix's horse, Tony. On Saturday being ordained as a priest, I was a great joyed each other until September, when 
Grandpa bent low over the pale little boy, afternoons, I would ride him to the movies, distance in timeaway from my fantasy life finally Misty was turned over to other croup-racked and pneumoniac. "Mate," he where he would wait faithfully for me, in the saddle with a pony named Tony; but owners. That story, when it is told, will be said in his sea captain's voice with which he corralled outside a neighborhood theater by this time, I had other fictions I was living called the Two Thousand Dollar Summer. I had argued against the wind and the wave where I went with the other kids to see the with. I had become involved in the life of a don't think either the world, or my superiors for the safety of his ship. "Mate, when chaste adventures of our great western Boston family with three children whose who are the guardians of my vow of poverty, you're hale and hearty, there'll be a sweet hero, Hopalong Cassidy. At night, he would father was not bothering with them. (For are ready for that story now. young Shetland for you to ride as your very lie down in green pastures at the foot of my those who remember, this was the family of Despite the financial burden of pony­own, if only you'll get well again." bed, where I could hear him, during sleep, the Thousand Dollar Christmas.) I wanted keeping, I have never regretted the gift of 
I wouldn't want it thought that I swapped making neigh, neigh noises to nut-brown to think of a really neat thing to do for those Misty to Chris, Loren, and Frankie-even the glitter of celestial kingdoms for the fillies he met in dreams of his own. I sup­children named Chris, Frankie, and Loren. during the winter, when the children never prornise of a pony ride; because pony rides pose, as I grewbigger, I must have sub­Would you believe I bought them a pony? saw him, they knew that somewhere, or not, I had no intention of dying at the age stituted horses for ponies; but in the in­He wasn't much of a pony. He wasn't munching oats, was a pony that belonged to of five. tensity of my imagination, horses and Shetland, and he only cost two hundred them. I wonder what the difference would 
But I opened one eye and looke<;l at him as ponies became interchangeable. Looking dollars. He was white, and his eyes seemed have been, in my childhood, if I had known though the assurances of ponies was all I back, every animal, including Rin-tin-tin, blue, and his name was Misty.. He stayed on there was a pony that belonged to me? needed to hear. was, to me, just a different shape of a pony farm outside the city, and on In the end, I had neither a pony nor 
"All right," I said. From that moment on, Shetland. Saturdays, I wouldbring:he children there so children that were my very own: but their with a dishonesty like a Yankee trader's, I I thought so much about ponies as a child that they could ride. One of the most need was even greater, for they really began to get better, as though I had done that, after a while, I began to believe that I beautiful sights I have ever seen was young never had a father. some horse-trading that coaxed me back actually did own a pony, stabled on a farm Frankie, a golden-haired child on a streak of Maybe ponies are what you give children from eternity. where only close friends, like the Bobbsey white, galloping that pony like a ranch­who do not have fathers who love them. 

But my grandfather was one of the twins, could visit him. Once, a master across the green, New England Maybe my grandfather realized I didn't greatest Yankee traders of them all. In photographer leading a lovely little brown countryside. I felt like a provident father need my promised Shetland, because he truth, I was too young to be dishonest with beast came to our neighborhood; and for a who has igiven his son one of the essential knew I had a father, and a grandfather, who him. I wish to God he had been too old to be fee, he would take pictures of the children experiences of life. loved me very much. dishonest with me. Some days later, he mounted on the pony's back. Naturally, I But, of course, essential experiences have I hope my grandfather had some such gave me the sad news. My pony, he said, had my pictue taken with that pony, though to be paid for, and it is not easy to board an thought as that. It would make it easier to had died of sea-sickness out there on the to tell the truth, I was only slightly smaller oat-eating, blue-eyed beast whose appetite forgive him as a Yankee trader whose story water, in a boat on the way to America from than the animal was. But afterwards, I was always in excess of my lunch money for haunted the mind of a child with the ghost of the Shetland Islands. From that day on, would show my chums the picture, and say, him. In winter, when the children were a pony that never found rest in the sea. 
crosby and nash -the virtues of friendship 
fred graver 

David Crosby on Graham Nash: "Now ship that Crosby and Nash are together, and Nash always seemed to be the anchoring watch two musicians play and know that Graham Nash -this is gonna sound like a remain together, through all this. Crosby is force in the group, as if without him the they enjoy what they are doing, and the h;ype-Graham Nash is one of the most highly a brash extrovert, a self-proclaimed energy others would burst from the friction of egos chance to do it. One possibility is that they evolved people on this planet. He is my source. Nash is more laid-back, scraping. Even in the Hollies, he seemed to will be playing some of the songs from the teacher and he's certainly the finest cat I calculating, calm, and generally more provide a certain touch that they have album which Crosby, Stills, Nash and Young know. Excuse me for usin' that word, reflective. lacked since his departure, a touch of have just completed in Neil Young's home because I know a lot of really fine cats. He lightness and simple symmetry. With studio. is just an incredible human being! And don't They admire and respect each other, Crosby, his personality and musical talent just trust me. Ask anybody that knows him allowing for a special atmosphere, an at­are beginning to display temselves in new Also on the bill Saturday night is Linda and they will tell you that he is just one of mospher~ which allows the pair freedom to ways. Ronstadt. She is not usually known to play
the major joys in their life. spreat out, investigate their interests, and In concert, Crosby and Nash are somewhat large halls, preferring to entertain in clubs express themselves. They work well unpredictable. Sometimes they will stay and smaller places. Her beautiful clear
"Willie <Graham Nash) and I are a great 
together, not because of their basic with their electric instruments, sometimes voice and pleasant country tunes are ~ure tocombination. That's mostly because of similarities, but because their differences they will do a whole show with only acoustic be an enjoyable lead-in to the main at­Willie 
mix so well. instruments. Either way, it is a treat to traction.
"Typical example of Willie (Crosby is referring to a trip from Florida to San 
Diego that he and Nash went on) There he singin' it all his life is. Steps on the boat in Fort Lauderdale, bravely, never having been on a boat before 
They met on the west coast shortly afterin his life, never at all, not one minute. And Crosby had met Stephen Stills. The idea ofthe cat steps on the boat and casually-Well, working together did not emerge until oneman, it was nin weeks, Fort Lauderdale to night at Joni Mitchell's. As David tells it:San Diego, and that's a little under 5000 "What happened is we started_ singing amiles, right? And by the time we got to San country song of Stephen's called "Helplessly Diego the cat was standing three-hour Hoping". And I had already worked out thewatches, dependably. So intelligently that third harmony. Stephen and I startedall of us looked upon it as a good time to go to singin' it, Willie looked at the rafters forsleep if it was Willie's watch, 'cause he had about ten sec.onds, listened, and startedit covered." 
singin' the other part like he'd been singin'it 
When asked how he thinks Graham sees for all his life." him, "Well, I hope he sees me as a loyal friend. 'Cause I am, man. I think he's one of • the most highly evolved beings I ever en­countered. That's a heavy thing to say about anybody. I don't know what he thinks of me. They <the members of Crosby, Stills, Nash and Young) don't tell me. But they play with me, youknow, and I can't ask very much more than that." 
still together 

That was in 1970, just as Crosby, Stills, Nash and Young were reaching the peak oi their success. Since then, Crosby and 
Nash have done one album together and completed a successful tour without threatening a permanent split. All of this is not so easlily accomplished as it looks. 
For one thing, it· ·rs one ... "of those remarkable tfrbutes to the virtue of friend­



Dwsh.ant lecture: 

Solzhenitsyn persecuted seeker of truth 
by Judy Hauenhorst Staff Reporter 
"What does it take to be free in the face of political power ac­cording to Solzhenitsyn's teaching?" asked Dr. Vera Dunham, professor of Slavic and Eastern Languages at Wayne State University, in St. Mary's Little Theatre Wednesday evening. 
Dunham's speech, "Alexander Solzhenitsyn" was part of the Lecture Series sponsored by the Humanistic Studies Department. 
Dunham, a native of Moscow, came to the United States in 1940 and began teaching at the University of Iowa. She has done extensive research on the Soviet Union and has published numerous articles and a book entitled The ),Jig Deal. 
"Alexander Solzhenitsyn is 55 
paperbacks 



Sci-li: new directions 
In The Enclosure Barry N. Malzberg Avon Books, $.95 
When Harlie Was One David Gerrold Ballantine Books, $1.25 
What Entropy Means to Me Geo. Alec Effinger Signet Books, $.95 

These three books are of fairly interesting note in that they are an excellent cross-section of modern science-fiction and as a demon­stration of where the "new" science fiction is going. Branching out into many different fields, each has its own singular ac­complishment, even if that ac­~omplishment is to sell books. 
The first of the bunch is probably he most fascinating in its very )remise. In the Enclosure pulls .he old reverse and tells of the 1lien's point of view when their :lying saucer lands and they offer to tell men everything they know about their more advanced echnology. The subsequent descriptions of Earth's leaders nlacing the ship's crew into "the ~nclosure" to pump them of mowledge produces a very human dnd of character in the supposed 1liens. Their tortures and at­
empts at escape eventually so ~ngross the reader that he oc­~asionally gets a bit angry at the ;tupidity of the captors. 
Many times, the reader must top and activily remember that hese are alien creatures telling .1e story, it becomes so real. 
Finally, the alien's eventual ,scape back to their own planet md the discovery of their true mrpose to their own race is as ronic and wrenching as their ortures on Earth. 
In all, a very readable book from 1 new and upcoming writer. 

When Harlie Was One is a bit llder book 0972), but recently lone in paperback. A stalwart >eliever in the old-fashioned 1ardware-type science-fiction tory, David Gerrold tells an in­cresting story of computers and 'ossibilities. Though predictable n most parts, the story is a fairly ascinating one of how an ex­>erimental computer named -:IARLIE slowly begins to show ;igns of consciousness and the ;ubsequent problems. Though a 
plnnning a \\('(kling'! call TtK' 234·5822 \\t'<kling Photognlplx,. 234-5822 MICHAEL LONIER 
~ ~
· ' • ' bowrhown South Bend 
._~~~~----~ 

bit juveile in parts (i.e., the rather 
sophomore sections on discon­
necting HARLIE because he's not making money for his parent company and the use of legal marijuana cigarettes by nearly every character), Gerrold comes through with a good impact at the end when HARLIE literally arranges to have his own GOD manufactured and makes known his intentions for his GOD. 
If you don't mind plowing through the kiddie stuff, a good computer story. 
This next book is one I find almost impossible to review. What Entropy Means to Me is the first novel-length product of the highly­touted Clarion Workshops held in 1969 and 1971 in New England and New Orleans. George Alec E:f­finger is a brand new writer who has been producing some top rate short stories and novellas in various magazines. This is his first novel and it is a doozy. 
I could say it's science fiction, but it's not quite right. Neither is it entirely fable, myth, biography, or any of a half-dozen titles one could impose upon it. Suffice it to say that it is all of these and more. One of the most impressive novels to come out in a long while (not to say first novels), E11tropy is more like an experience. Trying to tell what it's about would be useless (ev,er try to describe with words what it's like to have sexual intercourse? I mean trying to include everythinJr.) 
It ,would simply be too much. Effinger does everything from 
ridiculing other forms of literature 
THE ROMA welcomes 
1
NO & SMC students ! 
your host Frank Anastasio 
*PIZZA *LIQUOR *ITALIAN FOOD 
Happy hours 4-7 dally 
Dancing to the sophisticated jazz-rock of the Bill Nicks Trio 
FOR DELIVERIES CALL 232-3258 
219 N. Michigan Avenut 
years old. He is Soviet through and through," began Dunham. In 1945 Solzhenitsyn was arrested and spent eight years in a con­centration camp andeight months in Siberian exile. He won the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1970, aft,er having written One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich, First Circle and Cancer Ward. 

"In his own country," Dunham explained, "Solzhenitsyn is gagg•ed and persecuted, but he refuses to leave his counb·y. At home he is a seeker of truth; abroad he is a curiosity, a talented writer that we do not know what to do with." 
Dunham stated, "Solzhenitsyn's freedom is not detachment, not a copout, but the courage to ask the question in this catastrophic age of ours" She re-iterated this point through several examples in Solzhenitsyn's works. "Most of his work is autobiographical. Many stoies could have been about himself, but they are not. They are about Everyman," Dunham said. 
One such example is Matriona 's Home a short story Solzhenitsyn 
wrote  in  1963.  "'If I  lost  my  
memory  and  got  to  choose  one  
story  to  reme mber,  that  is  the  

story I would choose," Dunham claimed. Matriona is a woman who forgets herself and her own work to help her neighbors dig potatoes. 
Dunham found another exam­ples in a speaker in the First Circle, who said, "The writer is a teacher of other people. A great writer is the second government in his country. For that reason no regime has loved great writers, only min or ones." Dunham said that this parallels Solzhenitsyn's own situation. 
joseph abell 
to showing off his own incredibl) vast knowledge of books· from destroying myths to creating his own; from declaiming old literary 
styles  to  examining  a  
revolutiotion.  nary  new  theory of  fic­ 

Perhaps it's all a sham. Perhaps Effinger is laughing all the way to the bank and the Worldcon's prize table. But I think not. This is one guy to watch out for in the future. 
Also, a side note for science­fiction fans of Notre Dame, the Notre Dame Science Fiction Association will hold an organizational meeting Sunday at 2 p.m. in Room 2D of LaFortune. For those who don't know LaFortune that well, that's the room off the south end of the main ballroom on the second floor. 
A group such as this kind of association has a great deal of potential. Though I know little about the group as yet, their initial ideas seem promising. A good turnout couldsparkan organization that would certainly enhance Notre Dame's club scene. 


KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS 
Presents 

FRIDAY SATURDAY 
Nov.9-10 
Showings: 
6,8, 1O,midnight 

dmission $1.00 Members • Free 
~.r.oc~~~s 

"Ever since the Revolution, the Soviet Government has controlled the Soviet writer in several ways," Dunham said. "It has suppressed him, persecuted him and destroyed him while givng him non-literary tasks, turning him into a servant of political power. But it has never ignored him," Dunham added. 
"I am gather shreds that show Solzhenitsyn's concern for that sense of self which leads to spiritual freedom," said Dunham. She said that if man can still look at life optimistically, with the will to survive and a freedom from fear, he will continue to struggle and thereby set himself free. 
Dunham concluded, "A person you have taken everything from is no longer in your power, he is free all over again." Dr. Dunham 
----, 

J iii~t <11-n~ln~n-i_a_l_ 

I
-


Jfanrakt 1ijnust 

I "Enjoy a snack or dinner" 
35 Varieties of Pancakes Chicken -Steak -Sandwiches 
I 
RoGERS 





Optical 
IOG!II ATWEU. • OWNR 


~ JQ .CORV.ILLA 
HOUIS: MON • TUES -THUa -Pll V AM 5::10 I'M WID -SAT 9 AM 12 NOON 
COMPUTf IIPI!CTACLE SElYICE ALL fH 011.'$ 
I'IIUCIIIPTIONS HONOIEt 

e..tt 
2.89-7809 



Friday, November 9, 1973 
the observer 
9 



SAVE UP TO 70 o/o 
ON MANY MODELS OF PHONO 
CARTRIDGES  FROM  FAMOUS  
BRANDS IJltE.  
• SHURE  


• 
PICKERING 

• 
GRADO 

• 
STANTON 

• 
OTHERS 


IF YOU HAVEN'T REPLACED YOUR CARTRIDGE IN 2 YRS. YOU COULD NOW BE DAMAGING YOUR RECORDS 



We are a relatively young organization which is the result of our hobby developing into a business enterprise. While still hobbyists we were plagued by a recuring conflict. We had to pay the high price at audio salons £!. to get a good price we had to mail order to the coastal discounters and then take our chances that the equipment never needed repair. 
WHAT ARE WE TRYING TO ACCOMPLISH? 
Our goal is to combine the business efficiency of the low overhead, high volume wholesale warehouses with the professional guidance and services of the plush audio salons, allowing us to be directly competitive with the lowest prices in the country. 
HOW ARE WE GOING TO DO IT? 
From our experience we can recommend the best products from a performance and service standpoint thus cutting down the high cost of returned merchandise and repairs. By combining this with super-low prices and large sales promotions we hope to create enough excitement to double the volume normally possible in a store of our size and overhead. 
ARE WE MAKING PROGRESS? 
Only you can answer that question -so if you haven't shopped for audio components lately come on down to meet us, chat about the newest products, and see what you 




SPECIALS 
LIMITED QUANTITIES SOME ITEMS 
WAS  NOW  
• MARANTZ 4415  1400  5325  
• MARANTZ 4430  5600  5499  
• MARANTZ 2440  1300  5 230  
• MARANTZ 41 00  5500  5349  
• MARANTZ 2010  1200  $159  
• MARANTZ 4060  1250  $200  
• PIONEER TX-500A  1120  $ 85  
• PIONEER 1OO's  1120  $ 85  

And MANY MORE 

·' _i . . .. 


.. ............ .. 
'"-­
.... ~~~ 

SHERWOOD 
PIONEER SX525 

SHERWOOD 87200
BSR 310X
FAIR TRADE PRICE $259 

~~e;e• •a tJiyl\liJCD INC 
The Pioneer SX525 is one 

The BSR 310X • Shure The Dynaco A25 is re­
of the best-selling receivers 

M75-6 is the lowest-priced garded as one of the best
in the under $300. price 

combination we recom­speakers under $100 by
range. Its performance just 

mend. Together they de­Audio Critics. It was one of
earned it a "best buy" 

liver all the music when the first low priced spea­
rating from a leading 

tracking at a shade less kers to receive an "A" 
independent reporting ma­

than 2V2 grams. rating for accurate musical 
gazine. 
reeproduction. 
LIST 

$520 6-DAYS $409 
Audio magazine in a recent test review stated that the Sherwood S7200 delivered 40 rms watts per channel over the entire frequency range. This makes it one of the most powerful receivers under $400 and a real bargain at its retail price of $339 
LIST 



BSR 610X This BSR 610X with a Shure 

M93E is one of the lowest A few months ago a leading priced combinations that consumer magazine picked meets National Broadcast­the EPI 100 at $94 as the 

ing standards for pro­best speaker for under fessional use $130. The EPI 150 is even 

better and delivers a full
mrnm 

extra octave of low bass response 
~~ EHI*III~!!•CIiii•aii 

6-DAYS $619 
SAVE UP TO 50% 
OFF LIST 
ON MANY MODELS OF STEREO HEADPHONES IN ALL PRICE RANGES FROM FAMOUS BRANDS LIKE­
• 
KOSS 

• 
PIONEER 

• 
SCINTREX 

• 
OTHERS 


think of our prices. 

ODDS"N"ENDS 

30-50% OFF 
WHILE THEY LAST 
• 
SOME ONE OF A KIND 

• 
SOME FLOOR MODELS 

• 
SOME DENTED OR SCRATCHED 

• 
SOME DISCONTINUED 

• 
BUT MOST WARRANTED AS NEW AND PRICED AT THE DEALER COST! 


RECEIVERS RECORDERS SPEAKERS CHANGERS 
.. 

~. ......~ . ..... • ',it -\.. ....."\
........... 0 
the observer Friday, November 9, 1973 

•
3,000 tickets rema1n left for Air Force game 
by John DeCoursey cording to N.D. ticket Manager Staff Reporter Don Bouffard. There is a good chance that the "If it isn't, it will be the first time Notre Dame Air Force football 
Notre Dame Stadium hasn't been game will not be sold out, ac-sold out since the 1964 Notre Dame-
Jones urges unity 
•
1n support of 27th amendment 
by Mary Jane Anderson Staff Reporter 

Mrs. Betty Jones, assistant director of Indians's Govern's Commission on the Status of Women, urged women to unite in support of the Equal Rights Amendment, in a lecture last night in Carroll Hall. 
Mrs. Jones began by saying that in Indiana women constitute 51 per cent of the majority and 52 per cent of the United States. However, women are the minority of can­didates when it comes to making appointments to fill vacant spaces in the government. 
"The 27th Amendment is the most controversial issue of the day, but it is only controversial to those who are against it." 
She went on that some of the Black Equal Rights and Female Equal Rights were analogous. On this she made four main points. 
First, opponents and oppressors use divide and conquer tactics as m Civil rights movenua...., .w.. ....~ that when isolated, small groups are almost helpless. 
Second, all women are being accused of trying to de­masculinate the male. Thus, when women receive equal rights and pay, they are afeminating their male counterpart. 
Third, while a few years ago she saw blacks daring blacks to pledge allegiance to the flag, she now sees women (laring women. Reciting the phrase "with liberty and justice for all, she asked the audience, "who is all?" She then questioned whether women were really considered people. 
Fourth, society by using another divide and conquer tactic is in­filtrating the second largest minority, women of Spanish heritage. They are leading these women to thinking that they have their own cause. 
But that is not the case, Jones declared. Women must "amalgamate their efforts." They should not let themselves be divided. They should collect 
(continued on page 11) 

Stanford game," Bourffard said. "There is still a chance that the game could sell out, and our main hope is that the weather is good on the day of the game," he con­tinued. 
There are still 3,000 general admission tickets left, and the student tickets are being converted to general admission tickets at a slow pace. As of November 8, with freshman still turning in tickets, 3,000 student tickets are out­standing. 
Bouffard said that some of the students probably haven't ex­changed their tickets because they don't know what their Thanksgiving plans are at the moment. 
Students may still bring their regular season tickets or their receipts from ticket exchange program, to the ticket office and obtain general admission tickets, up to the day before the game, Bouffard added. 
Both hockey games against 
Mock Market 

The annual Notre Dame mock 
stock market is now underway in 
the lobby of the Hayes-Healy 
building. 
The mock market, sponsored by the Finance Club, gives students an opportunity to play the market with no risk of loss. 
The Mock Stock Market will run for six weeks from November 5 to December 14. Hours are Monday through Friday from 10 a.m. until noon, and in the afternoon from 1:00 until 3:30. 
Bandit takes -women hostages, s200.000 cash; killed i.n geta-way 
By WILLIAM STRACENER 
ATLANTA (UP!) -A bandit cornered in a bank with four women hostages demanded and got $200,000 in cash late Thursday, then died in a 10­second barrage of bullets when he tried to reach his getaway car. 
At least one officer was shot in the gunbattle that erupted under the drive-in carport of the Spring Street Branch of the First National Bank three hours after the unidentified gunman walked in to rob it. 
The bandit took four women employes as hostages when police surprised him during the robbery. He holed up with the women in a back room of the bank and demanded $200,000 ­there was only $50,000 in the bank -and a getaway car. 
FBI agents brought him the money at dusk but it was not until almost 7:30 p. m., after a small blue car had been driven up near the drive-in windows for him, that the gunman made his final move. 
women and yelled, "If you 
shoot I'll blow her head off." 
As the gunman, apparently 
panicked, continued to scream, 
a sniper saw an opening and 
squeezed off a shot. It 
apparently struck the gunman, 
according to Doug Smith, a 
spokesman for the bank. 
He jerked away from his ring 
of hostages, firing his own weapon. When he rolled clear of the shrieking women, police · opened fire en masse, loosing an estimated 40 shots before the bandits's body rolled to a 
stop in the driveway. 
In the melee, the getaway car 
apparently was pushed. It came 
careening down the ramp of the' 
drive-in windows, hurtled! 
across Spring Street andl 
smashed into a parked car. 
Inside it was the $200,000 the' 
FBI had given the gunman. 
The money, in two snowy 
white bags, had apparently 
been taken to the car by the 
branch manager, Elmer 
Schneid, a volunteer hostage. 
The sobbing women apparent.. 

All light went out inside the ly unharmed, were taken away bank, and, a few 

minutes later, lt-------------. 

the back door near the drive-in window opened. 
ROCCO'S 

According to officer G. M. Corbin, the first to appear were two of the women, walking 
537 N. St. Louis Bldv. 

abreast, with the bandih 
across from Pandora's

crouched behind them. The other two women walked 
South Bend's finest pizza,

behind the gunman, a :black 
spaghetti, Italian sand­

man in .his Jate 20s.. ~ _~ . ~ ~ The bandit looked up, accord­
wichesr and American 
food. -'' . ·

ing to Corbin, and saw a police 
sniper in the darkness. He dropped to" ~nis knees, Jfred a carry outs: 233-0872
shot over the head of the ..____________, to hospitals. Authorities at Grady Hospital said the wound­ed officer, identified as John 
Adams, was shot in the 
stomach but apparently was not critically hurt. Authorities were unsure whether the gunman shot 
Adams or whether he was struck by a ricochet in the fusillade that killed the bandit. 
Wisconsin, to be played on November 16 and 17, at the ACC have already been sold out. 3,200 season tickets, inc.luding l,100 student tickets, have been sold, thus leaving only 1,200 ·single game tickets for each game. 
The 1,200 tickets for the weekend series against Wisconsin went on sale November 7 and were bought immediately. Most of the tickets went to Notre Dame students, while a few went to Wisconsin students who drove down to buy the tickets, according to the ticket manager. 
MAIN CHURCH SUNDAY MASSES 
5:15 p.m. Sat. Fr. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 
9:30 a.m. Sun. Fr. Thomas McNarly, C.S.C. 
10:45 a.m. Sun. Fr. Patrick Sullivan, C.S.C. 
12:15 p.m. Sun. Fr. William Toohey, C.S.C. 
BYZANTINE RITE -HOLY CROSS 6:30 p.m. 

School house Too 
In the Brewery 
100 Center Complex Mishawaka, Ind. Phone -259-8181 


The midwest's most complete needlepoint shop 
SPECIAL: 10 percent discount upon presentation of student I D HOURS: MONDAY-SATURDAY, 10am-9pm SUNDAY, 12 m-6 m 


"Smile, God leYes You" 
@



DERMSHEM MOTORS 
"Tell your friend to buy his car here and if he does, we 'II give you $351 I 
Special: '68 Camara, 3 sp. Vinyl Top $1295 
FINANCING AVAILABLE 
"If we don't have it, we'll get It" 
© OPEN Mon., Tues., Thurs., 9-8; Wed., Fri., Sat., 9·6 ...1 t., CALL 233-5145 . ._ 832 S011th 811111 Awe. at !mire llae Awe. 
© 

t t 
'-...../ 







OPENING TONIGHT 
THE ATTIC 
219-1/2 N. Michigan Ave. 
LIVE MUSIC GREAT FOOD PETE SNAKE 9-1 MIXED DRINKS 
BY THE PITCHER


6oz. BEER 
so~!! 

OPEN WED. FRI. & SAT. 

FrMtay, Nov!!!~Jer 9, 1973 the ®server 1 1 
NDs 15Dt1J anniversary-1992 
Committee collects historical data on ND 
by Virginia McGowan appointed by the Office of Provost Staff Reporter under the direction of Fr. James Burtchaell. 
A Committee on the History of According to Richard Conklin, the University, responsible for Director of Information Services, collecting historical data to be "The formation of this Committee published for Notre Dame's 150th had beco'me very necessary for a 
anniversary in 1992, has been university of our stature. There 



SMC Food Service has lettuce shortage 
by Melissa Byrne Staff Reporter 
"I am sure there will be lettuce shortages and am anticipating some problems in obtaining UFW lettuce," said SMC Food Service Director Crawford Caswell. 
SMC students voted Wednesday evening to change SMC dining hall purchasing policy. The change involves buying lettuce picket by the United Farm Workers, rather than Teamster Union Lettuce previously used. 
As a result of the vote, if no UFW 
lettuce is available, no lettuce will 
be served in the SMC dining hall. 
"I spoke to Mr. Price, director of Notre Dame Food Service, and he 
said he was beginning to have 
problems obtaining lettuce," 
commented Caswell. 
UFW lettuce has been served in 
Notre Dame dining halls since a 
referendum similar to SMC's was passed last spring. Price commented, "We can't get lettuce now. It's a wonder this 
hasn't happened  before."  "Our  
suppliers  have  bent  over  back­ 
wards  to  supply  us  with  UFW  

lettuce in the past few months. ·They've been going all the way out 
to the west coast," said Price. 
"The referendum said when we could not get United Farm Worker lettuce the students would do 
without lettuce. So if the students 
want to break the referendum, 
then they'll have lettuce," said Price. 
The SMC Food Service has not ordered any lettuce since the referendum passed. "However, we'll soon be calling in orders. 
We'll know the situation better later this week," said Caswell. 

was a kind of gap left between the Cavanaugh years and the Hesburgh years, from 1946 to 1973. Almost everything has happened to the university since then." 
Conklin labeled the Committee as a "control center" 01 "clearing­house" for the written and oral sources which will eventually be used as background material by the as-yet-unknown person com­missioned to write Notre Dame's sesquicentennial history. 
The last official history of Notre Dame was compiled by Fr. Hope, a professor of philosophy and fromer Notre Dame student. This history covered the first 100 years of Notre Dame (1842-1942). Since that time there have been several studies, but none under the specific direction of the University. 
The whole focus of the new Committee will be to collect source documents, view these facts and provide a framework for the writer, stressed Conklin, but it will not interpret or imprint one point of view upon the proposed history. 
At present, the Committee's source materials are primarily located in the University Archives, which contain unpublished materials, and the Notre Dame Collection, which holds published materials mvolving University history. Although the Committee intends to draw upon these two collections, it also plans to make a more concentrated effort in discovering new untapped areas of information. 
Committee member Dr. Thomas Schlereth, assistant professor of American Studies, hopes to not only collect administrative and institutional materials but also the diaries, journals and correspon-
Jones speaks on black wo~nen 
(continued from page 10) 
themselves and use ballot boxes, because they have enough backing from themselves to support can­didates with their interest, she added. 
Civil rights movement is for the black man, because it doesn't concern itself with the black woman economically, she sugges~ed. To prove herself she added that black woen get five jobs for every black man's one, but this is only because they aren't paid equally to black men. 
Jones argued that the Equal Rights Amendment (ERA) sometimes confuses family unity with just the opposite, a lack of family ties or maternal sense. But she stated very firmly, "Proprietorship of family is called slavery! ! " 
Jones called for women to shrug the great put-downs to women by not allowing themselves to be called "women libbers" or by burning their bras, or by promoting lesbianism, because, by allowing such incriminations, they are retarding the women's movement. This movement she adds, is one of the most unhypocritical in history. The legislation was formed to serve all people, she said. 
Looki at ERA from an economical aspect, the equal pay act leaves out equal rights,but only 10 per cent of women in the United States are being paid equally as a male would employed on the same job, she emphasized. 
Jones ended by thanking those who attended. To further her point she quoted Malcolm X, "Did we not land on Plymouth Rock or did it land on us?" 

Jones' lecture was the final one in the series, "A Woman's Place is ... ," co-sponsored by St. Mary's College and the Indiana Com­mittee for the Humanities. 
SMC COFFEEHOUSE 
+Frank D'Am bra +Slow 


FRI. NIGHT 9:30 • 1:30 IJNDER CAFETERIA 
+David Shaheen +Tom Faught 
MUNCHIES GOODIES 

notre dame concerts -Student Union presents 
David Crosby and Graham Nash Special Guest: Linda Ronstadt 
tomorrow 
night 
8:00 
' 


Tickets are $5.50, 4.50, 3.00 on sale now at Student Union Ticl<et Office and ACC Ticket Office. 
GOOD SEATS ARE STILL AVAILABLE 
dence of students and faculty in the 
20's and 30's, which would provide a more three-dimensional view of university life. 
Dr. Schlereth, who also teaches the seminar course "History Of Notre Dame," believes con­sideration may be paid to his students' research projects, which might explore more student in­sights. 
To Fr. Thomas Blantz, 
university archivist and com­mittee chairman, the historical knowledge compiled by the Committee will "help us to un­derstand the Notre Dame of today and guide us in the decision making of the future. It's good to know our background simply for the sake of knowing our own university." 
Fr. Blantz sees the Committee continuing until the history is completed in 1992. "I envision a very readable but scholarly and accurate history of the University, perhaps one or two volumes," says Blantz. 
"The kind of growth rate since the end of World War II made it imperative for the formation of the Committee at this time," believes Dr.Schlereth. "1992 may seem a long time away but actually it is not." 
The Committee invites any in­dividual who might know of any sources of data or collections of 
materials to contact the followin~ Committee members: Blantz Schlereth, Conklin, Frank Clark, o; the Memorial Library's microfilm staff; Fr. Thomas Elliot, archivist for the Holy Cross Fathers' In­diana Province; Dr. M.A. Fitz­sin~o.ns, professor of history; Dr. Phi!tp Gleason, associate _professor of history; Dr. Vincent Lannie, associate professor of education, and Dr. George Sereiko assistant director of libraries. ' 


CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 

One roommate ND apts. 2nd semester. Call Jimbo 283-1552. 
HOUSEPARENTS -married couple perferably without children to live in Girls Group Home. Room and board + monthly salary. Husban may work or study outside the home. Time off iS provided. Call Mrs. Carol Wilken at 233­9491. 
RIDES WANTED 

Need ride to Bowling Green, Ohio for weekend of Nov. 17. Call Rick 233-3945. 
Ride wanted to Mpls-St. Paul , leave 11-17, Return 11-25. Will share expenses, driving. 
Connie 3857. 
Ride needed Wheaton, Ill-West Chicago Nov. 9. Ruthie 4229. 
FOR SALE 

MEERSCHAUM PIPES! Exceptional values, per­sonalized service. Catalog. 
PMP co. Box 444 Gaither­sburg, Md. 20760' 
Turquoise jewelry from the Southwest-great for unique Xmas gifts. Call 8373 or drop by 209 Pangborn. 
'66 Mustang, 4 speed, ' $300 OR BEST OFFER. Nick 1670 
12 string Harmony. Good condition. $95 or best offer. 8573. 
2 $4.50 tix tor Crosby -Nash concert. Good seats. Will deliver. $9 or best Casey 232­9034 aIter 7. 
Fischer Skis 205 em. Reasonable Mike Mcquestion 232-0540 after 5. 
2 floor seats for Crosby Nash concert. 6931. 
FOR RENT 

All private 3 rooms up for married graduate student. all utilities. Near Memorial Hospital . No rent in return for aiding parents to lift light­weight daughter and son to and from wheelchairs, etc. 232­9128. 
NOTICES 

, California trub Xmas fligiif , signups travel agency Nov. 9-27 $208.50. 
' • · • ·.' ' Will do typing. Term papers , manuscrips, etc. Call 233-6909. 
Morrissey Loan Fund can loan up to $150 at 1 per cent interest, 1 day waiting period. Basement of La Fortune. 11:15­
12:15 Mon.-Fri. 
Openings now availble for part time hostesses, cashiers, and cocktail waitresses. Apply in person anytime at Boar's Head restaurant S2885 US 31 Norht, South Bend. 
come on down to pandora's for those heap big bargains, everyday. new and used books bought and sold, also art prints pipes, + rollin papers, magazines + newspapers at 602 n. st. louis from 10 to 7. 

TRAVEL ! Take advantage of student rates. Talk to the specialists-BOAC. Group inquiries welcome. Call Clark, 234-2098 after 7 pm. · 
SKI THE FRENCH ALPS, JAN. 3-11. DEPOSITS ARE STILL BEING TAKEN. CALL6716 for further in­formation. 
GOOD TIX FOR THE NOV. 11TODD RUNDGREN GONCERT AT MORRIS CIVIC AND NOV. 15 + 16 PER­FORMANCES OF GODSPELL ARE NOW AVAILBLE AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE, 2nd FLOOR LAFORTUNE 11:30-5 DAILY. 

Logan Volunteers: Brookfield Zoo trip this Sat. Everyone needed Come at 9 am to Logan. 
Ski Aspen Jan5-12. Lodging and Lifts $120Depsits $20 by Nov. 10 Call 6575 or 1628. 
SMC pre -law club meeting Sunday, Nov. 11 at 6:30 pm. Room 244 Madleva 
LOST AND FOUND 

Lost ladies diamond ring last weekend . Great sentimental value. Large reward. Call 283­7175, 
Lost Girls tinted wire rimmed glasses in brown case after Navy game. Call 5114. 
Tweed carcoat found in the infirmary on Saturday. CAll ·lhe infirmary t() .cla_im. 
. 
I 0 


-------------~-~ --------­
the observer Friday, November 9, 197:1

12 



Potent Pitt poses 
Notre Dame's defense throttled Pittsburgh last year, 42-16, but will have its problems tomorrow. The Irish "D" must stop the Panthers' double-threat combo of Tony Dorsett and Bill Daniels. 
by Peggy Lawlor 

The University of Pittsburgh has seen a major change in football ~is season. Coach Johnny Majors, that is. This dynamic young man, .vho brought Iowa State football JP from the Big Eight cellar during nis five years there, is hoping to work similar miracles for his new employers. 
The Panthers have not posted a .vinning record since 1963, when :hey were 9-1. During the past 13
t 
years their overall record is just 
I 
I• 22-68-2, including the worst in the school's history last year, 1-10. So, for Majors to make a respectable team out of Pittsburgh seemed to be just that --a miracle. 
I 
Yet "respectable" is a mild term 
o describe the Panthers' per­·ormance thus far this season. 
rhey're currently 5-2-1, and are Wth in the AP poll. Losing only to 3aylor and Tulane, Pittsburgh's ·ecord includes victories over 'Jorthwestern, West Virginia, Boston College, Navy, and Syracuse, and a 7-7 tie with Georgia. 
Majors is determined to finish even better. · "Our players are not going to learn how to lose," he said. "We cer­~ainly didn't come here to lose." 
To begin his campaign against defeat, Majors has concentrated on recruiting, which he considers 
'the most important factor of the game." Freshman Tony Dorsett, a much ;ought-after back from Aliquippa, 
Pa., was successfully recruited to Pitt, and has already gained over 1100 yards on the ground to break the previous Pitt single-season record. Besides scoring 9 touch­downs, Dorsett has Pitt's longest run from scrimmage this season, a 79-yarder against Northwestern, towards a total of 265 yards in that game. Honored as back of the week by UPI, AP, and Sports Illustrated after only three weeks of college ball, Dorsett certainly poses a threat to the Irish defense. 
Quarterback Bill Daniels, the team's leading scorer, with 10 touchdowns, is second in rushing yardage with close to 400 yards. Daniels is close to fifty percent in pass completions, with most of those being caught by Todd Toerper. Although he has yet to score, this junior split end has grabbed 15 passes for 190 yards. 
All eyes figured to be on Pitt's defense this year due to the inexperience of the offensive squad, and although the "0" has raised more than a few eyebrows, the defense has attracted some attention of its owri, Senior linebacker Rod Kirby (6-1, 202) leads the team with 42 tackles and 33 assists while All-East tackle Glenn Hyde (6-3, 235) is a close second. 
Two transfer students, linebacker Kelcy Daviston from Arizona State, and tackle Gary Burley from Wharton Junior College, are also strong defensive players, currently third and fourth in total tackles made. 


Captain's Corner 


Notre Dame 44, Navy 7. Seven down and four to go for an undefeated ~eason. And last Saturday's win was a good win for us because I think the ¥hole school was emotionally down from the USC game. 
Well, all that's over and our next challenge is Pitt--and our game with he Panthers might very well be one of out toughest games of the year. 
Getting back to the Navy game, though, I've got to say it was great to .vin. However after the game I was presented with some very dishear .. ening news about Thomas Jackson Harper, one of the freshmen mid­;hipmen. 
Tom is from San Bruno, Calif., just south of San Francisco, and at­

·ended the Naval academy Prep School which is located in the vicinity of he Naval Academy in Annapolis. In August Tom was a well-built young 11an and was the picture of health and happiness. 
As a freshman on the Navy football team he played tight end in each of he plebes' first three games, did a fine job, and showed great potential or the future. 
In the fourth week of the season, however, Tom went to the team 'rainer after discovering a lump in his lower abdomen. They took Tom 
odurther tests and found that he had cancer throughout his body and 
hat it seemed to be of the terminal variety. 
Well, it's been about two months since his sickness was detected and rom is still hanginging in there, fighting very hard for his life. He is still ·onvinced that he can lick this disease and so far various treatments eem to have cleared up most of the cancer in his lungs. However, Tom till faces an uphill battle. And he still needs a lot of physical and piritual help. 
As I look at Tom's case I can't help but think of my own problems and lOW really small they seem. It seems sometimes that things are not ~oing well--you've just failed an exam, you've had a bad day at practice, ou don't feel very good, you've go a cold, maybe you've just had a fight 
vith your girlfriend. 
Well, listen pal, just look at the whole situation and ask yourself the 1uestion: is it really all that bad? And the answer is no, it's not. 
You still have your health, and you still have a chance to come back and lo better than you have in the past. So make up with your girlfriend and tick your chin up--because life is as good or bad as you make it. Of ·ourse one will experience setbacks and disappointments, but if we look tt Tom Harper's setbacks we see how small our own troubles really are. 
I hope we all can look at Tom and see how he is fighting his own setback 1life--and I hope we can all see his determination not to let this setback eat him. And in doing this I hope all of us can have brighter and happier utlooks on our own lives. 
Looking ahead now, to this weekend's game with Pittsburgh--it's going 

o be a very tough one. We will be playing away from home and they will 
•e out to get us. We've been under pressure before, however, and we'll how the Panthers what Notre Dame is really like. 
So in closing, now, I'd just like to say two things. Go Irish, beat Pitt is ·ne of them. Say a prayer for Tom Harper is the other. , · , . 
"We've come a long way, further than I anticipated," said Majors. "We're young and anything can happen. A win over Notre Dame would certainly be icing on our cake. 
"We're going to go out there and play with reckless abandon," he continued. "And we're going to have some fun. There's no sense for us to be uptight about it. We've got too go out there with con­fidence, but I've never been in a ball game yet I didn't hink I could win." 
Despite the strength of Pitt­sburgh's defensive unit, Majors will have his work cut out for him if he plans on stopping the fifth ranked Irish. 
Outscoring their opponents 235­41, Notre Dame has 3226 yards total offense against 1146 for the opposition. Quarterback Tom Clements is passing at 54 per cent and has an excellent receiver in split end Pete Demerle (20-296 yards). Backs Wayne Bullock, Art Best, Eric Penick, and Al Hunter have proven difficult to stop for all seven teams the Irish have defeated thus far this season. 
Notre Dame's defense is the best in the nation, yielding only 41 points for an average of 5.9 points per game and 164 yards per game. Freshman back Luther Bradley has snared five interceptions so far, and with Mike Townsend, who last year led the nation with 10 thefts, he gives the Irish a strong secondary. 
An even stronger defense against the run is led by Junior linebacker Greg Collins, freshman defensive end Ross Browner, and senior linebacker Gary Potempa. 
"Defensively," noted Pitt scout Bob Leahy, "Notre Dame can replace its starters more than adequately. They line up in usually the same defenses and just want to go at it on the line and beat you up physically. 
"And they have the people capable of doing that. Luther Bradley is one of the most im­pressive freshmen I've ever seen, and quarterback Tom Clements is very, very similar instyle to our own Bill Daniels. He's not afraid to call his own number in key situations." 
In this long rivalry between Pittsburghand Notre Dame, the Irish hold a commanding 27-11-1 lead, including victories in the last nine years. During this time the Panthers have been outscored 413­79. Johnny Majors is going to do Kickoff for tomorrow's game is his best to change that picture set for 1:30 p.m., and a sellout tomorrow, but it certainly won't be crowd of more than 56,000 is easy. assured in Pitt Stadium. 

Student season hockey tickets available Monday 
Those Notre Dame and St. purchased season tickets may buy Mary's students who purchased tickets on an individual game basis hockey student season tickets may at Gate 10 of the A.C.C. $3.00 pick them up at the Ticket Window reserved-seat tickets may be on the second floor of the A.C.C. purchased for $1.50 upon this Monday and Tuesday, presentation of a valid N.D. or November 12 and 13, from 9 a.m. to SM.C. ID card, a limit of one (1) 4 p.m. Students are asked to bring ticket per game per ID. The their ID for identification. Time of tickets are available at the Gate 10 day tickets are called for has no Box Office from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. bearing onseat location as student Monday-Saturday. orders have already been assigned. The Wisconsin series is a 
Those students who have not complete sellout. 


Captain's Corner 

Notre Dame plays 34 games during the regular season. Last weekend 
we played the first two, winning and tying at Michigan Tech. Our major 
concern for that series was to be physically ready. 
Each weekend from now on, however, we must make sure we are ready 
both physically and mentally. Those teams which are ready' both 
physically and mentally do well in the WCHA. 
It is odd; we can not afford to reach an emotional peak for any given 
series. Rather, we must reach the same plateau for each game. 
To prove this point, last season we travelled to East Lansing in 
F_ebruary after beating the Spartans 8-5 and 13-5 in the ACC. On Friday 
mght, we lost to them 10-2. We were ready for them physically, but not 
mentally. On Saturday evening, though, we ready for them mentally, 
and we won 6-5. 
In three seasons of action at Michigan State's Ice Arena, we have won 
only one game while losing the five others. Their ice rink is one of the 
oldest in the naton. The lighting there produces a shadowy atmosphere on 
the ice, presenting the opposing goalie with additional problems. 
However, in Mark Kronholm, we have the best goaltender in the nation. 
He kind of exemplifies this mental readiness, because as a goalie, he 
can not afford a mental lapse. Last weekend, Mark did not make any. 
We know this weekend the Spartans will be ready for us. This will be 
their opening series in the WCHA. This means it will provide extra­
incentive for them. Their rivalry with us is also one of the longest and 
bitterest in college athletics. Michigan State is always prepared for the 
Fighting Irish. This was evident in football this season, and it should be 
no different tonight and tomorrow evening. 
Michigan State is a physical team. They'll try to forecheck us into 1mistakes. In order to do well this weekend against them, we'll have to minimize those errors. 
We have had a good, hard week of preparation for this series. We know 
what we will be up aginast this weekend in East Lansing. We think we are 
ready both physically and mentally for the Spartans. 
It is important for us to be prepared and to reach the plateau this 
weekend. By doing so, it will contribute two needed wins from which we 




