
l 
On The Inside 

1 
"P.entacostals on campus 
..1 
. . . page 11 

~ 
ND-SMC have beef shortage 
I 
... page 14 

~ 
VOL. VIII, No.2 serving the notre dome -st. mary's community ! 
l 
Philosophy, rules change go to SLC 
by Anthony Abowd News Editor 
A staten on Christian philosophy for ND staff and S!:' eral suggestions for rules revisions head the lisl of summer work done by the office of Student Affairs. 
The statement, delivered to the rectors at their orientation, "is an in' ·~1 attempt to recognize the Christian nature 01 . dationships that staff should use with students," says Dr. Robert Ackerman, director ofstaff development in Student Affairs·, "This is a staff policy not something which asks any action on the part of the students." 
The Rule revisions are suggestions presented by Student Affairs to the Student Life Council (SLC). The SLC is responsible for revisions of the Student Manual. Some of. the suggestions representing softening past University policy conerning the use of alcohol on campus. 
STUDENT AFFAIRS IS prepared to permit ·alcohol use in private rooms and elsewhere on campus "in accord with guidelines established by the Office of Student Affairs," according to the most recent revision of legislation to be presented to the SLC. 
The present Student Manual lorDIOS "tne use or presence of alcoholic beverages in all public places on campus." It does mention the use of alcohol in private dorm rooms. 
"We have submitted a working document of suggestions," sates Phillip Faccenda, vice­president of Student Affairs, "which we hope will lead to a redrafting of the university rules." 
Ackerman stresses that these ideas are not in 
their final form but suggestions from the Office 
of Student Affairs to the SLC. 
"These are our ideas, what we think it ought to be," says Ackerman' "We are not trying to pressure anyone to accept them." 
MEETINGS FOR THE SLC, a committee composed of students, faculty and a~­ministration, have not been set. The SLC IS charged by the Board of Trustees of the university oto periodically revise the Student Manual. .. 
me statement on Christian philosophy for the 
staff is not in its final form. It asks that rectors 
and all Student Affairs personnel be Christian in 
their actions with students. 
"We're trying to make a short statement of our 
educational purpose. It's a value statement of 
what we believe and are willing to do with regard 
to our educational format," said Faccenda. 
Student Affairs under Faccenda's leadership, 
began formulating its policies and goals only 
since last May when Faccenda 's appointment to 
his present position was made permanent. At 
that time a large number of staff reallignments 
were also announced. Over the summer the 
offices for Student Affairs was moved to a new 
location in room 315 of the Administration 
building. 



Faccenda 

Faccenda outlined several other areas, in addition the Christian philosophy and the rule revisions, which his staff prepared over the summer. 
Student Affairs has prepared a draft for 

_ revising hearing procedures and other appeals methods concerninguniversity discipline. These suggestions will also go to the SLC for their consideration. 
ALSO THE OFFICE has outlined procedures for rector orientation and staff education. This will be Ackerman's primary responsibility. 

"I will hopefufly spend the year trying to help the professional staff develop skills to do a good jobs," says Ackerman. "There are concerns the rectors have, such as counselling and un­derstanding the personal growth of students that I can help with." 
Faccenda hoped to have a free flow of in­formation from his office to the students this year. 
"My underlying theme is that ever-ything we do is open. In terms of policies and attitudes we're going to be as open as possible. This will, I hope, eliminate many suspicions," says Fac­cenda. 

Storage hit; losses 'minimal' 
by Art Ferranti Executive Editor 
Thieves broke into the Notre Dame fieldhouse shortly before students returned from summer vacation. 
Used for summer storage by students, the fieldhouse sustained minimal losses, according to Jim Hunt, ND graduate of 1973 and president of the 73 senior class, who was in charge of the summer storage. 
Security estimated that the burglary took place between 3: 30 
p.m. and 6:45a.m. between Aug. 23 and Aug. 26. 

Hunt Silid Tuesday that two or three of the best bicycles were taken, as three stereos and 200 boxes and trunks were broken into. He speculated that the thieves were after objects of high value which could be easily fenced. 
A box of 200 records has also been reported missing and some furniture damaged, according to Security. Arthur Pears, directorof securi~y, reported "Thebuilding is like a sieve." They have often found the building unlocked. Wire clippers were used to break in, but there are no clues as to the identify of the thieves. 
Rod Braye, the resident of the fieldhouse, became ill ap­proximately 3:00 p.m. Thursday, August 23. Security took him to the informary a few minutes later, and when he returned on Saturday, he did not check the storage area. Storage guard Ziggy Podemski, last year's notary public and custodian of Stepan Center, notiCed the disarray of bikes and boxes Sunday morning at 7:30a.m. 
Security did know about the storage in the fieldhouse, ac­cording to Pears, but they were not officially notified and did not have 
(continued on page 3) 

Students lined the ACC Tuesday to register for classes which began today. More pictures, page 3. 
(Photo by Joe Raymond) 


Oliphant: 
The Observer 
begins a new 
feature 
See page 9 

llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 
Tolkien dies 

Author J .R.R. Tolkien, former Oxford professor noted for his famous Lord of the Rings trilogy, died Tuesday in Bour­nemouth, England, at the age of 81. 
A family spokesman said that Tolkien, who had been in failing health, became ill while visiting friends and was taken to a nearby nursing home where he died a short time later. 
Toikien's first book, The Hobbit, was 
. written in 1939 for his own children. The Lord of the Rings trilogy appeared 14 years later, which sold well from the start but suddenly became a best seller in the 1960's and Tolkien's tales of a middle earth kingdom populated by hobbits, trolls, ecchnated dragons, and evil mountains I grew into an international student cult. 
~ 
The book's fame soared into the millions with over 100,000 sales annually, and the 
j
paperback editions sold even more. 
,
. Tolkien retired as a professor of English language and literature from Oxford in 1959, and had lived in semigtclusion since that time. Earlier this year he was to 
I
travel to France to receive that country's 
1
top foreign novel award, but was forced to 
1
cancel due to illness. 
Tolkien allegedly was completing his second trilogy, The Silmarillion, repor­tedly abouth Middle Earth, two ages before Frodo, at the time of his death. 
ammwmnnlllll-..miiiiHIIIIIII-IIIIIIIIIIIi 
r-----------F-------------------------------~-------------------------~--·-----­
the observer Wednesday, September 5, 1973
2 


warld 

briefs 
.. Beirut--Oil ministers of 10 Arab states end secret talks in Kuwait and sources report they failed to work out a common oil policy for use as a political weapon in the Middle East conflict. 
Seven African liberation movements fighting against white regimes are trying to get more and better organized aid from the nonaligned nations holding a summit conference in Algiers. 
Washington--Operating money for the White House, Treasury and Postal Service and authorizations for the State Department are the first items of business when Congress returns Wednesday from a month-long recess. 
Galveston--Tropical Storm Delia, with winds reaching 70 miles an hour, heads toward the Gulf Coast at the Texas-Louisiana boarder. 
Washington--Senate investigators are preparing a confidential report of their recent findings in preparation for the return this month of the Watergate committee. A grand jury prepares to announce whether it will issue indictments in connection with the 1971 burglary of the office of Daniel Ellsberg's psychiatrist. 
. . Cambodia--Government troops back off from an attempt to reopen Camodia's major highway to the sea and return to their base camp after a bloody 10-day drive. 

an campus taday 

wednesday 1:00-4:00 p.m ...auditions, mixed choral ensembles, sign-up 
outside room 247 o'shaugnessy  
6:30 p.m ...recruitment meeting, Iafortune  new observer staff,  2-d  
7:00 p.m ...tryouts, o'laughlin aud. thursday  nd-smc  pro duction  of  richard  ttl,  

9:00 a.m.--seminar, ali-day trial advocacy, cce 

4:00 p.m.··Seminar, "science; a reaffirmation," dr, robert r. 
hentz, conference room, radiation research bldg. 
4:30 p.m...orientation, army rotc, lib. aud. 

6:30 p.m. -recruitment meeting, new observer staff, 2-d Iafortune. 
7:00 p.m ...tryouts, nd-smc production of richard ttl, o'laughlin aud. 
'Frankie's' revived as 'The Library' 
Notre Dame alumnus opens new bar 
by Maria Gallagher St. Mary's Editor 
Notre Dame students have long been noted for their prowess with the brew, but few have ever bought more than a keg at a time, much less 10 kegs, 250 cases of beer, 50 cases of wine and 175 cases of liquor at one time. 
Of course, a restaurant came with that purchase. 
Notre Dame graduate Rick Kanser ('73) recently purchased Frankies restaurant on Notre Dame Ave., and expects lots of help from his fellow Darners to 

keep. his business going. So far he 
has invested over $8,000 in a new 
bar and various other renovations. 
"The Library," as it has been renamed, will offer students "a clean place where they will be treated with respect and not subjected to ridiculous prices," according to the new proprietor. 
"South Bend has never really had a good student bar, and students hve been ripped off all. over town," Kanser commented from personal experience. "They deserve better because they are potentially good business." 
The restaurant's image is Kanser's foremost concern. "Business has gone downhill here the past two years," he noted. "I'd like to cha that right away." 
For starters, Kanser has redecorated and installed new game machines, and exnects an all-female crew of bartenders in the fall. The Library will continue to serve food, but the greasy pizza of old will be replaced by a type of thick-crusted Sicilian pizza or­deredfrorr.Chicago. The restaurant will open daily at 11 for lunches 

and  will  still  sponsor  "dinner  
specials."  Live  bands  will  be  
featured on weekends.  
This is Kanser's first  business  

venture. Just barely over In­diana's legal drinking age himself, he gained previous experience as a bartender at the Senior Bar. He plans to expand his staff in the fall to "30 or 40 Notre Dame students and graduates." 
Summer business has packed the establishment on weekends, and an even greater volume is ex.. pected when the students return, but Kanser said he plans no further expansion. 
"At this point, I can't afford it, 
but I'd also like to keep the place 
small." He feels his place of 
business will have a "friendlier 
atmosphere" than the larger bars 
in town. 
Kanser also feels that the mark 
of a good business is a concerned 
owner. He speculated that the 
reason business had slacked off in 
several places around town was 
because the owners were never 
there, or obviously didn't keep 
close tabs on their places and 
personnel. 
"Customers notice these things. 
If an owner doesn't really care, his 
place reflects it. Just being there 
can make a big difference. Kanser 
will literally be "living" there-on 
the second floor. 
He modestly disclaims any 
credit for the establishment's new 
name, which was first suggested 
as a joke. "That was Rich Sher­
man's idea," he admitted. Kanser 
himself was out playing golf when 
the new sign for the front arrive. 
"I really didn't think they'd do 
it," he grinned. 
Kanser first got the "crazy idea" 
of running a bar in October of his 
senior year. He had originally 

'71 graduate dies 
Roy J. Ford, class of 1971, was killed in an auto accident in Pennsylvania on Sunday, July 1. Ford, a student in the college of ­Arts and Letters, was on his way to make arrangements for off­campus housing. 
The Observer is pubI ished daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St Mary's College. Subscription~ may be purchased for S8 per semester ($14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second cla.>s 
postage paid, Notre Dame lnd 
46556. ' . 

NELCOME BACK STUDENT 
' 
*MAC'S RECORD RACK* 
2925 Mishawak·e Ave. 
next to River Pork. rheoter 
*lp's *needles *special *record 
orders cleaning equipment
*tapes lfwe don't have it, we'll get it 
on sale now-Santana, Mclaughlin, TuiT 
planned to build a new place  and  .  He  was  then  appcoached  by  I'd still like to build the new place  
had an option on some property on  Frankies'  owner  Frank  Billelo,  eventually;."  
the site of Crypt Records and the  and was able to get a loan for the  In the meantime, Kanser's hlwe  
adjacent  car  wash  at  the  South  purchase. But financing will weigh  a great time making The Library a  
Bend  Ave.-Corby-Eddy  in­ heavily on him for a long time.  "great  student  bar."  And  who  
tersection, but his loan request fell  "It's aquestion of being debt for  would know better how to do it than  
through.  the next ten years," he said. "But  a student.  

..,.__...~..,_,..,,..,.. ... -.... .,..,~ Jllii4:«fi' .___.4 .. J"''II·~· 
0 

~ ,/vt{.t{tv..eA






r--•-7 


______, 
*Student Billing Card 
The time is NOW! 

There is no standing in line! 
There is no extra charge! 

With a Student Billing Card, residence hall people may make long distance telephone calls with the pri­vacy of their own room phones and get an individual bill once a month. 
And you can take advantage of Direct Distance Dialing ... the mod­ern way to call long distance, within Indiana or out of state. 
We'll mail you a Student Billing Card, if you'll call 234-5088. Or you can drop in at our Business Office at 225 S. Main Street. Open 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday. 
@Indiana Bell 
-

---~----~----------~-~-~-----~-------------,._-----------~--, 

s:: 
0
.....
.... 
t:S
...
.... 
en
..... 
t» 
Q) 


= 


(Photos by Joe Raymond) 
THE OBSERVER 

Wednesday, September 5, 1973 Page 3 
'Civil rights center set up 
A new political and social force has been founded at Notre Dame. Financed bya $50,000 grant from 
the Ford Foundation, the newly formed Center for Civil Rights under the direction of ND law professor Howard A. Glickstein is aiming toward provision of new and dynamic leadership for the civil rights movement. 
"The civil rights movement is now in need of fresh, new ideas," director Glickstein noted. "The problems over the years have become more sophisticated and our thinking on civil rights has grown stale. The center will generate these new ideas to meet such sophisticated problems 
The Center, operating in conjunction with the ND law school, intends to be a nation:.! organization, focusinF Jinmarily on national civil rights issues. It wm house the papers of Father Hesburgh compiled during his tenure as member of the Civil Rights Commission as well as the collections of other civil rights leaders. 
. . GLICKSTEIN SEES the center as a catalyst of revived interest in civil rights. Through the "power of publicity" Glickstein hopes that the center can influence social and governmental action by making recommendation and proposing solutions. He envisions a day when the center will lobby on pending legislation, comment on presidential propo.<>als, and testify before congressionall committees. 
.. "THE CENTER will be a facility which scholars from all over the country can come to study the 
1 problems and history of the civil 
1 ri_ghts movement," said 
Glickstein. "It will acquire a degree of expertise so that it will be a clearinghouse for advice on all civil rights issues." 
Glickstein is somewhat alarmed at the apparent apathy toward civil rights that exists at Notre Dame as well as all across the country. He cites the complexity and subtlety of discrimination as the cause of this apathy. 
According to Glickstein, many forms of discrimination are built into the systems 1>f society. An example of such institutionalizer' bias is certain intelligence tes1 which place minority groups at disdvantage in obtaining er ployment. 
. CIVIL RIGHTS PROBLEMS are simply so massive and complex that the public has difficulty seeing immediate solutions. 
"It was easy to get people ex­cited about civil rights several years ago when the goal was to give people the right to vote. But 
Storage heist 
(continued from page 1) 
a key to tne fieldhouse. Hunt 
claimed that he told a guard at the 
security desk last year about 
thestorage and the guard said he 
would pass it on. 
Dr. Robert Ackerman, Direc­
torof Staff Development, and 
Phillip Faccenda, Vice President 
of Student Affairs, were notified 
about the storage plan that Hunt 
and Mike McCUrdy were in charge, 
according to Hunt. 
Hunt said that they had only lost 
approximately $1,000 in claims and 
(continued on page 11) 

today the problems are of the magnitude of Gary, Indiana. You look at Gary and you just raise your arms in frustration." 
Howard Glickstein has spend much of his career as an attorney crus&ding for the cause of civil rights. In the turbulent years of the early Sixties worked in the Civil Rights Division of the Department of Justice, where he helped enforce desegregation of schools and lunch counters in the South. 
Discriminatory housing cited 
by Ann McCarry 
Bitten by the alleged discriminatory practices of several South Bend landlords, William L. Montgomery, a black philosophy student is petitioning the university :to form an in­vestigative off-campus housing committee. 
Montgomery, who was unavailable for comment, was rejected as a ~'enant by three landlords whose names were supplied by the Off-Campus Student Housing offire. His ex-who advertise through the Housing not enou~;u, "cuu uan<>vu. It is Office, to insure that this kind of important to see some action, not discrimination does not exist under only for Montgomery but for the aegis of Notre Dame." others, too." ..:1 
The primary reponse to Mon-Lawson, who was preSident of tgomery'sletter is coming from the the Urban League when the open South Bend community rather housing laws were passed, feels than the university. As of August ( , that the law h~s. yet ~o be properly 12, Montgomery had yet to hear" tested and legibmatized. from Hesburgh or any of the other "We have got to make those laws Notre Dame officials who had real," Lawson stated. "But we received copies of the July 19th must also consider this problem as letter. He has received en-proof of man's inhumanity to man . couragement from the mayor's We must see that justice prevails office and South Bend Urban 'for Mr. Montgomery." League. ' Lawson continued to cite the 
periences mspired Montgomery to Montgomery's case is being necessity of considering the Ian­write to Father Hesourgh on July supported by Cassel Lawson, the , dlords' position as well as the 19, 1973_. Dire~tor; of Off-Campus Student1i tenants' point of view. 
"I smcerely hope that the Affairs. Lawson, f_ormer head ?f University will be prompted, from •,-}.he Human R~latlons board . m 
· Although the University hasfailed to take action Lawson 
. . . . ' believes It IS Importa~t ~ _let Mo~~omery and others m similar positions k!low ~at someon~ really cares and IS trymg to alleviate the problem of . discriminatory off-campus housmg. 
Father Hesburgh could not be contacted for comment. 

the situations that I have ex­perienced, , to do something to to relieve or make prospective minority students aware of the situation that exists here in South-Bend," wrote Montgomery. 
"I propose that a committee be formed by the University to in­vestigate managers and owners, 
In 1965 he became counselor for the Civil Rights Commission where he served under Father Hesburgh. In 1969 Glickstein assumed the job of staff director fot eh Com" mission. 
"Over the last few years the source of civil rights activism has been the Civil Rights Comission," Glickstein observed. "With the Civil Rights Center we can change the focus of progress from the Civil 


Rights Commission." 
Glickstein

-TERRY KEENY 
Muth Bend, IS presently m­
,vest~gating ~ontgomery's case. He IS pursumg the case on two levels: what Notre Dam~ can do and what the commumty and fe~~ral agenci~s can do. . . 
I am convtnced, at. this _time, that the U~ban ~ague IS trym~ t? do something nght now but this Is 

the observer Wednesday, Septembers, 1973. 
. ' . '·.• '. • , t.:. . , • • 1 '' , • ~ "' "'
• ;'.:.:. ,. t 
Increased enrollment cramps 100 freshmer1 
As a result of Notre Dame's mysterious inability to be affected by nationally decreasing collegiate enrollment trends, nearly 100 freshmen have been placed this fall in forced living quarters on an already over crowded campus. Despite the nationwide tendency towards . decreased enrollments, this year Notre Dame experienced an increase of 5 per cent over 1972 Summer arrests solve mystery  in the number of accepted ap­plicants who actually agreed to attend school this fall. John Goldrick, director o[ ad­missions, said that out of 3059 applicants who were accepted in the spring, 1800 have confirmed their intention to attend Notre me, 175 students greater than the ex­pected frosh population. The admissions department, according to Goldrick, traditionally accepts twice the number of frosh arplicants th~ university expects for the fall semester. Although historically only 50 per cent of those accepted actually agree to attend, 59 per cent of the applicants confirmed  Cancellations occur when an applicant who has been accepted and has confirmed his intention to attend, pays the enrollment fee only to later reverse his decision. As of August 8, when the number of cancellations historically ex­ceeds 100, only 45 conf)rmed ap­plicants had decided against Notre Dame. But hopefully the overcrowded conditions for freshmen will only be temporary. Rev. John Mulcahy, director of on-campus housing, said that an effort to "uncrowd" the freshmen will be made as space becomes available. But upperclassmen, who agreed last spring to overcrowd their  were filled with excess students. Morrissey was hardest hit by the overcrowding, as their population jumped from its original 307 to a present total of 337. Alumni was also hit hard, increasing by 24 to its present 300. Mulcahy said that he expects the demands for on-campus housing to be as great this year as last, but declined to speculate as to the seriousness of next spring's situation. He said that he wants to keep all options open until the situation becomes more clear. Goldrick was unable to project whether or not the current ooom m enrollment would continue next year. He cited the start of  coeducation last year as a possible reason for the increase. He said that it still must be decided whether the present in­crease should be used as the guide in determining policy for accepting applicants next year, or whether the same system should be aga.in be used hoping that this year's increase was unique. Women were not affected by the overcrowding, as the quota was reached in August and transfer applications were immediately cut off. All of the overcrowding oc­curred in the men's dorms, and all forced rooms weredetermined · with the cooperation of the in­dividual hall rector.  
this year.  rooms in an effort to prevent large  
ofcampuscrimes  Although the admissions department accepted a number relatively equal to that of previous  numbers of students from being kicked-off . campus, will not be uncrowded.  Dr. Areson appointed  
years,  Goldrick  said  "the  con- Mulcahy, who stressed that  no  
Two 17-year· old South Bend youths were arrested and ultimately found delinquent by the St. Joseph County Juvenile Court this summer after a resident of Lyons Hall apprehended the two during an apparent break-in at the hall. According to Director of Security, Arthur· Pears, the two were found by the hall resident trying to break into the hall. He apprehended them and held them  firmation ratio increased significantly." The summer has been a series of completely unexpected develop­ments for the admissions people who rely on the "numbers game" for acrueing a workable freshman class size. Following the unusually large number of confirmed ac­ceptances, Goldrick looked to a traditional cancelation ratiOt of 7 per cent as a means of reducing the class size.  freshmen were forced into up­perclass rooms, said that the older students must become convinced that the decision to overcrowd was their own,and does not alter the fact that the demands for on-campus housing require specified numbers of students to move off-campus yearly. He pointed out that no public rooms were used to house the freshmen, in contrast to last year when study lounges across campus  Dr. Suzanne Areson has been appointed Director of Counseling at St. Mary's, replacing Dr. Mary Martucci who now heads the nursing program. In her new position, Dr. Areson will be responsible for personal counseling and vocational testing of students. Prior to joining the college, Dr. Areson served two years as resident counselor at Eastern Michigan University, Ypsilanti,  Mich. She was previously em­ployed at the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, training and supervising counselors, and coordinating the school of education's advising office. Dr. Areson received her Ph.D. in education as well as her master's in counseling and guidance from the University of Michigan. She holds a bachelor of science degree in psychology from Western Mkhigan Uryversity, Kalamazoo.  

until security came to the scene. 

~lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllIIIIIIIIIUUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII11111111111111111111 IIIIIIIIIIII1111111 II II II111111 II 11111111111 II11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 IIllllllllllllllIll1111111111&
Pears said that the two con­fessed to and implicated others in ten campus crimes over the past year. The counts came to seven counts of breaking and entering, two counts of larceny, one count of attempted robbery, one count of entry to commit a felony and one count of assault on a security of­ficer. However, the case on each of the counts were insufficient and conviction was sought only on two 
counts. 5 The confessions of the two §cleared up ten recent campus 
a
crimes: --the theft of several hundred dollars of camera equipment from .-.Timothy Miller of Howard Hall on Jan. 21, 1973 --a break-in at the Senior Bar on Jan. 23, 1973 -the hold-up of a student as he crossed Greenfield St. in South Bend on Jan. 2:7, 1973 --a break-in at the A.C.C. on Jan 31, 1973 
--the theft of the chalice of Fr. Thomas Shilts from Farley Hall on Feb. 10, 1973 -The assault on a security officer in a campus parking lot on March 4.. 1973 after the two were stopped for questioning -the break-in at the Student Union Ticket Office in LaFortune and the theft of tickets for an event -the break-in and burglary at the Observer office -nine counts of larceny at the Rockne Memorial Building where locks were cut to burglarize = students' lockers --a burglary at Pangborn Hall's = food sales 2 = 
When they were apprehended, § the two had a card key to Alumni ~ Hall in their possession, but Pears §
said' that the two were not involved 
I ~ 
in the armed robbery this spring in Alumni Hall. That crime is still unsolved, he said. 
Pears stated that the two were =
= 
picked up several times in the past 
~­
by Notre Dame Security, but never §with enough substantial evidence 
2 
to hold them. He also said that § warrants have been issued for two accomplices who are presently = serving in the U.S. Armed Forces .. ~ 
Michiana 
I 
sports car club meeting 
i 
§5
Sept. 6 8 p.m. 




I 5=
First bank & trust 
U.S.31 Nat Cleveland Rd. 
§ info 272 9'914 
in 11111111 


Big 70-WEEK DATEBOOK/CALENDAR for '73-'74 ... loads of illustrations you can color with FLAIR. Only $1.00 with coupon. 
SPECIAL ... 

--..JILl 

PDWERPDINT 
PAPER8MATE. PAPER8MATE. 
= 
§ 
,-, 
~I 
PAPER MATE 98~ PEN 

PAPER8MATE 
98¢ 
:~::~R 
Powerpoint-the pen that pumps 
the ink-writes at any angle-even upside down! 


PAPER MATE $1.95 PEN 

PAPER8MATE 
$1.95 
:~::~R 
Powerpoint-'h~ pen that pumps 
the ink-writes 
at any angle 
even upside 
downl 
~ 
= 
= 
= 
~ 
5 §
§ 
I ~ 
=
= 
~­
§ 
§ :: 
= 
I ~ ;= 
§ 
§= 
The Hammes Notre Dame I 
§ 
III..III_...I.Qakllt.&.tluii-IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIDDIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIU 
.I 


this is it! ! ! 
OBSERVER 


All people interested in 

-advertising sales 


.. 
_ ____j 

----.---~-------------------------------------------------------------------­
the observer Wednesday, September 5, 1973 
Administrative changes made at St. Mary's 
by Maria Gallagher president for development and was also the general secretary of charge of the office formerly Mother Olivette Whalen will bSt. Mary's Editor 

public relations. She holds M.S the Congregation of the Sisters of headed by Jason Lindow~_r, Jr. doing missionary work in Afric 
In the wake of the summer ad­and Ph.D degrees in chemistry the Holy Cross for twelve years. Hitchcock serves full-time as chief during the coming year, and thei ministrative shuffle, three posts from the University of Nutre Another new position, that of accountant of a farm CO-{)p in seats are likely to be filled by tw 
have changed hands, three new Dame, and has published several institutional researcher, will be Benton Harbor, Michigan. A new·appointees. Five or six ne posts have been created, and two articles in professional journals filled by Sr. Jeannette Lester. permanent appointee will be members will be added to th 
remain unfilled. In addition, five relating to her field. For the last This post is distinguished from the selected by late fall. board's present number 
terms have expired on the Board of twenty years she has taught at archivist's who presides over the The five expired terms on the seventeen. Under bylaws, draw Regents and the status of two more Dunbarton Collere where she also college records, in that will include Board of Regents are those of up last year, as many as 
is uncertain. served as secretary for the data analysis and make projec­Jordan Hamel, Franklin Schurz, members may sit on the Board. A Replacing Don Rosenthal as planning committee and -as a tions from available data. Sr. Leon ella Mole, faculty least one-third must be sisters o 
registrar is Sr. Mary Francesca, member of the advisor;t com­Former assistant to the representative Dr. Bruno the Holy Cross. C.S.C., who held that post at mittee for the college. Prior to president John J. Hof has been Schlesinger and student Provisions for faculty im Dunbarton College in Washington that, she taught at Saint Mary's appointed· director of develop­representative Sue Welte. student representation will b until it closed last June. College, and did research for the ment and recruitment for the Although their terms·' are not ex­made as soon as possible, said Dr 
She holds a bachelor's degree Department of the Interior and Tucson program, which is being pired, Sr. Gerald Hartney and Henry.from Dunbarton Coilege, and a the American Petroleum Institute. offered for the first time this master's from Catholic University. Currently she is a member of the semester. In his new position Hof 
Information on her major fields Saint Mary's Board of Regents and will reside at Picture Rocks was not immediately available. chairman of the student life Retreat House, headquarters of She also holds an Ed.D from committee. the Saint Mary's Tucson campus. Columbia University, artd was Sister Basil Anthony will assume The assistant to the president post assistant professor of education at responsibilities as vice-president which he leaves vacant has not yet Dunbarton. for campus affairs, a newly created been filled, but Dr. Henry ex­
Sister Anna Mae Golden, C.S.C., takes over as director of ad­missions, succeeding Sister Raphelita Whalen, C.S.C. 
Sister Anna Mae joined Saint Mary's in 1972 as assistant director of admissions. She holds a B.A. in mathematics· from Dunbarton, and an M.A. in mathematics from the University of Notre Dame. She taught mathematics for eighteen years at cardinal Cushing College in Boston, and served as. its academic dean during the 1971-7.2 school year. 
Sr. Ellen Dolores Lynch, C.S.C., will succeed Sr. Basil Anthony O'Flynn, C.S.CC., as vice-
Directories 
appear early 
by Anthony Abowd 
Preliminary phone dir~t.ories were ready for distribution when the campus opened-registration. The phone directory has been plagued with problems in past years and last year was not even published until well into the first semester. 
"The student directory has always been a problem," says Rick Sullivan, registrar at ND and the man chiefly responsible for the early edition of the directory. The preliminary directory was ready last Thursday and given to the hall rectors for distribution. 
"There is a two-fold reason for the preliminary director," Sullivan states. "First, it is a service-to get the information into the public's hands. Secondly, it is an editing tool to get corrections and updates on the information printed." 
Sullivan explained that the front cover of the directory contains a tear-off coupon for students, faculty and staff to revise the in­formation in the directory. Students turn revisions into the House Office, 315 Administration Building, not into Sullivan's office. 
The preliminary directory was made possible by some revisions in procedure and utilizes the student master file the registrar has in computer storage. 
''The information in the direc­tory is accurate as of August 20th. Changes have been made since then, mainly new admissions, ad we did not have the local addresses of many of the off-campus ~tudents," Sullivan says. 
Sullivan stresses that the students, faculty and staff must take the initiative to correct mistakes in the preliminary. All changes are due before September 12. 
"If the final version is incorrect, onlythe student is to blame. They 
• can edit the directory before it becomes final. That's the biggest benefit of the directory," says Sullivan. 
Final versions of the directory will be turned over to Promotional Enterprises, an Indianapolis company, after September 12, to print the official university directory. 



NOW OPEN··· 
1003 notre dame ave. 
formerly frankie s 
On tap... 

Carry-out Specials Pabst 
this Friday and Saturday only••• 
Falstaff six pack of a popular brand bee~r 
and Old Style 

$1.25 
(plus many other specials)
... a taste from God's Country l hours 11:00 A.M.-12:30 A.M. 
11 to 2 
5 to 8



Luncheon Specials 
Dinner Specials 

HAMBURGER BASKET ............. . 1.25 
RIB EYE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.95 
ROAST BEEF BASKET .............. . 1.50 
LASAGNA .. . .. .. .. .. .. . .. 1.75 RUEBEN SANDWICH ............... . 1.50 
CHICKEN . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.75 SPAGHETTI . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I.75
CHICKEN BASKET ................. . 1.50 
PERCH .................. 1.75
STEAK SANDWICH ................ . 1.50 HAM SANDWICH ................... 1 1.15 MEATBALL SANDWICH ............ . 1.00 
Includes Soup, Salad, Pasta and French Frie&
.SAUSAGE SANDWICH .............. . 1.00 
(many other selections available)
lncl~ French Frie. and Salad 
Proprietor: Richard Kanser--Notre Dame class of '73 
position. 

Sister Basil Anthony has served Saint Mary's in several ad­ministrative capacities. She was vice-president for fiscal affairs, and, prior to that, dean of students. 
She holds a master's degree in theology from the College and a master's degree in education from the University of Notre Dame. 
Recently she was elected to the Board of Directors of the American Association of University Administrators (AAUA) fDr a three year term. She 
pressed the hope that it would be 
by later fall. 
Hof came to Saint Mary's from Tucson in July, 1972. He is a co­founder of the Thomas More In­stitute in Tucsort, and still serves as executive· director of the In­"stitute, which is a secular educational organization that seeks to promote Christian 
humanism. 
The other vacancy', director ot business and financial affairs is temporarly being filled by Leslie Hitchock, who takes interim 



----~ --------------------­

. : ..~ ../'... -.

I I I 
Dean gives discipline new stress 
priviledges as the more Influential responsibility. My assistant is just developmental discipline will
standard of justice' some students
by Anthony Abowd 

It is just a question of equal as good as the dean if I'm not work. "I hope the philosophy will 
believe exist on campus.
News Editor 

rights." available," Mechaca points out. improve with experience to
"My understanding that for 

"He is the perfect employer," become more effective. Its use
some time people feel there are
Developmental discipline will be 

Fr. Lall says. "He advises you of challenges us to be imaginative
inconsistencies in justice on
the main thrust of John Macheca's 

SOME SUMMER decisions, what's going on in any area." and ~reative, but it's going to take
campus," Mechca explains.
work as he starts his new job as 

Macheca is confident that his a total commitment," he says.
"There are also rumors at ND that Macheca points out, took into
Dean of Students for the University 
of Notre Dame. 
"Primarily, discipline is a developmental tool , " explains Macheca. "My major concern is that we use resources that can help in growth and development of our students." 
Macheca also sees his function in the traditional sense of keeping order in the ND student com­munity, but he stresses that this will be only a secondary function for him. 
"Discipline has a place within the community. It can primarily function as a developmental force within the lives or our students and secondly as a function of good order. However, in extreme cases, the developmental model cannot preempt the need for order in the community," he says. 
SINCE JULY Macheca has been Dean of Students. He replaced Fr. James Riehle who held the position for six years. Macheca is a 1962 graduate of ND with a degree in Latin American Studies. He did his graduate work in Mesico. After privileged classes were given special consideration in the judicial processes." 
MACHECA IS EMPHATIC in hisresponse to these opinions. "It can't be justice if it isn't the same for everyone. It's likethe spirit of the Warren court--concern because little and insignificant people are not guaranteed the same consideration this position. "Unlike the rules and regulations of the university," Macheca 'says, "this disposition toward en­forcement is effective im­

mediately." 
Fr. Terry Lally, Stanford rector and a teacher in the Theology Department, is Macheca's assistant. "We will work closely together: We have no separate 

All clubs interested in participating in ACTIVITIES NIGHT on Monday,September 10, must contact Student Activities Office (7308), Mark Nishan ( 1 025), or Mike Becker 
(7664) before Saturday, September 8. 
working for the Defense Depart­ment for several years, he came back to ND to run the Public 
Relations,md Development Office in Chicago in December 1969. 
Macheca is impressed with the human resources on campus and hopes these will become his primary tool in executing his job. 
"We can do more than other places primarily because the human resources we have, starting with the students, are at one un­believable level of quality. At this place there is staggering potential. 
There is a great group of young 
people. The other constituencies, 
the Student Affairs personnel, are 
people who care about the 
students," he says. 
These human resources, 
Macheca hopes, will follow his lead 
and concentrate on developmental 
discipline. He has run numerous 
sessions to familiarize staff with 
the philosophy. 
"I've spent the entire orientation 
week explaining this philosophy to 
rectors, assistants and rectorsand 
R.A;'s. "We've really been put­
ting this out so people can see it 
and commit themselves to it," 
Macheca says. 
"WE also feel that awareness if a 
very important ingredient in 
developmental discipline," he 
adds. Macheca hopes to set up a 
"viable counselling service 
through the Dean of Students that 
would even include students." 
Along with increased awareness, 
Macheca would like greater 
flexibility in the types of punish­
ments at his disposal. 
"Implicit in rehabilitative 
discpline are many more alter­
natives at my disposal in making 
decisions," he explains. "For 
example, I hope to have an array 
of alternatives for a person who 
comes to me with an alcohol 
problem."
Alcohol, drugs, dishonesty , 
immorality and violence rank high 
in Macheca 's listof major areas of 
concern. In addition to these 
problems Macheca is concerned 
with the image of a priviledged 
class' of students and a 'double 
,241 Dixieway North 1 mi. north of NO 
Guitars $.Accessories 

Music Instruction ' 
Ev@rvthing for the guitarist 


A young man with hiseye to the future ( 
l
canlookto AnnyROfC. 1 

Choose Army ROTC. The total time requirements of ROTC account for little in a student's workload and no commitment is made by you until the Junior Year. While you're looking at our program and deciding if we can offer you something, we will be looking at ·you. If we're both satisfied we can offer each other. something, upon gradua tiomy-ouwillreceive a commission as a Second Lieutenant in the United States Army Reserve. Right now chances are good you'll only be required to serve on active duty for 3 to 6 months. 
When you go back to a civilian career, you'll have an edge. The managementand leader& hip ex­

perience offered through ROTC are not duplicated by any other college courses. And, proven in the crucible of officer experience, these are important assets for any young man looking forward to a successful future. Assets which are readilymarketable when seeking any position. 
Succes~ in a life ch~ice todar demands more. than ever the right preparation. Education, of coure, IS essential. But the growing proportion of Americans going to college has lessened the diploma's role as an automatic entree to the best jobs.Employers are demanding something more. 
Army ROTC oHers "something more" 
to the college man looking to expand 
his future. Call 283-6264 or 283-6265 



liiAnnyRare
or visit the Army ROTC office Bldg. 5 


THE OBSERUER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Art Ferranti Executive Editor 
Lee Gentine Business Manager 
Jerry Lutkus Editor-in-Chief  Dan BarreH Executive Editor  
NEWS:  283-1715  
EDITORIALS: 283-8661 BUSINESS: 283-7471  John Kloos Advertising Manager  

Wednesday, September 5, 1973 
Catching Up 
A potprurri--any mixture of unrelated objects, subjects, etc. A potpourri is what is offered here, but all bound together within the realm of Notre Dame. 
The Dining Hall-The renovations of the South Dining Hall are amazing to say the least, but talk among students is skep­tical about its workability. The new system can run efficiently and will run efficiently as soon as old habits are broken and the new system becomes acclimated to the students. Security--There were big headlines this summer that two juveniles were ap­prehended and convicted of on-campus crimes. In their statements, they con­fessed to 10 campus crimes from the past semester. Yet, the apprehension of the suspects was made by a resident of Lyons Hall, not security, the protectors of the campus. To c<mpound this, the Fieldhoose was broken into and an un­determined number of items from summer stoarge were taken. Security 
claimed that they storage was taking  did  not know place in  that the  
Fieldhoose  over  the  summer,  even  

thoogh that. storage had occured there for countless number of years prior to this summer. 
The New Philosophy--The new philosophy that came oo t d Dr. Philip Faccenda's Central Staff this summer, really wasn't that new. Tre philosophy was a good restatement of things that have always existed at this university and the rules with slight renovation, are basically the same as the past ones. 
What was most encouraging a bout the rulesandthephil<liophy was the partthat students played in the shaping of the document Though theywerenotdirectly involved in the meetings that resulted in the philosophy, they played an important advisory role to the central staff. And amazingly enoogh, theobjectionsthatthe students foond in the documents were 
daanesbury r:.arry trudeau 
the observer 
Night Editor: Joe Abell 
Asst. Night Editor: Ann McCarry 
Layout: Maria Gallagher, Bill Sohn, Dan Sanchez, 
Marlene Zloza 
Ad Layour: Kenny Kampman, Art Ferranti Picture Screening: Jerome Phillips 
Typists: John Flanagen, Mary Romer, Mike Goetz Night Controller: Howard Halle 
Managing Editor: Joe Abell News Editor: Anthony Abowd Editorial Editor: Butch Ward 
Wire Editor: Tom Drape Features Editor: Beth Hall 
SMC Editor: Maria Gallagher 
Sports Editor: Vic Dorr 
Associate Editor: Rod Braye Photo Editor: Joe Raymond 
listened to and in most cases resulted insome a Iterations of tre piece. 
Student Directory--The idea of finally producing a preliminary student phme directory is not visionary, only basic and it's surprising that it took so long to come about. But nontheless, congratulations on a good, smmd idea finally coming to pass. 
Punishment--Tre idea of how you punish thos1e who dis obey campus regulations is a question that came to the front last year with the infamous Lewis Hall case. With the juggling of the central staff, the insertion of John Macheca as Dean of Students and the writing of the new philosophy, it again appears to have come to the front The attitude of Macheca and the entire central staff is a healthy, excellent at­titude. I nw hat the Central Staff terms a communityof scholars, it is questionable from the start that there should be regulations at all--if we stay within their definition of community. But nonetheless, if there must be rules, there inevitably will be offenders and the hardest ques1ion arises--the question of how do you handle the offenders? 
A strict "knee-jerk" policy of treating offenders leveling them with apunitive sentence-has not place in a universi1y. Punitive action should not be the rule in disciplinary cases, just the exception. Instead the policy that Mac hec a asserts, developmental rehabilitation policy, is in order. Students are not criminals and they should be treated with compassion with a sense of rehabilitation when they have crossed u Diversity policies. 
This policy is anexcellentone, yet most students are waiting with an ap­prehensive air--waiting to see what develops. Faccenda's staff has pledged themselves to fair and equal justice on campus and we await and welcome this stance. 
Jerry Lutkus 

fEUQW PI.AYERS. MlHA"f 
1He PtAYG IN YOVR. 
PI.-AY800~ /r EX13Ct/Te/J

r HAVE JVGT R4S5c/J 
PROPERl-Y, PR.OV!PE TJ../13

AI10N6ST YOU ARE 
!feY TO A UJ/NNIN6

COPI/35 OF rf.lc N&P/ 
SEASON/ /JO YOU HeAR..

1tAH PlAYBOOK I tr/R.OT!f 
HliP A JU/NNIN6

OVl3R. 1H!f SVMMEI!.. /JO 
/ SEASON/
NOT OPEN 1J.IEM 
YE-T. 




Miles Ta Cia... 
Prayer 
butch ward 
How are you doin' today? 
Lots of things are running through my mind ... but it's so hot, I'm really having trouble sorting things out. 
This year is beginning a lot differently than any of the three that went before. I mean, before my prime responsibility was to myself, But no more ... 
It's pretty exciting when I think about the possibility of really af­fecting someone else's life, which is what an R.A.'s job is all about to me, but it is quite a responsibility. 
And I guess I'm a little scared. 
It's difficult when I remember how a lot of guys will think I'm out to be "Big Brother" and breathe down their necks all year. But I doo't want that at all. 
And I guess I'm afraid that all the guys won't appreciate the im­portance of respecting the rights of everyone living around them. But I feel badly when I lose trust in people I haven't even given a chance yet. 
Especially when everyone has really been great these first few days, helping each other move in, making newcomers to the hall feel welcome. 
I really think it's going to be a worthwhile year. 
But I wish I felt more comfortable approaching people I don't know.. .I mean, how do I know that they really don't mind me being around? 
That's strange, isn't it? I mean theway I get all upset about things that haven't even become problems yet.. .and which may,never become problems. I guess I'm just really apprehensive about success. 
Success. I hope I never let that become my entire motivation for what I do. I mean, it's necessary for me to achieve some sense of self­satisfaction, but I've been involved with people long enough to know that the search for results can lead to a lot of frustration. 
And what's really important is for the guys to notice some amount of growth. That's what I'm all about this year... helping guys grow, and appreciate their growth. Then maybe some pattern will become apparent in their lives, and growth will become a conscious habit. 
That would be great. Really great. ,' 
It's hard though. I mean, coming back to Notre Dame and trying to help all of these guys grow. Not because of them, but because of the pattern that's developed in my life. 
I really miss Donna. I mean, it's really difficult learning to share and love with one person, knowil;g that she'll always be there to make the going easier, and then to suddenly find that not only isn't she right there to help, but that there are 50 new guys with whom I have to form a relationship. 
Because this job can really get lonely. Not because there aren't plenty guys just as willing to help me as 1 am willing to help them, but because I wonder how I can touch their lives with any of the intensity 
~ 
with which I touched the person I love back home. 
I know that that's a really great thing to say about my relationship with Donna, but I guess it could lead to frustration if I expect too much from the guys. 
I know what I have to do .. .l have to appreciate all the little things that happen this year; I have to reach a point where I say that what I've done is all I'm capable of doing. 
And then do more. 

I hope I'm making sense, God. Help me realize that I'm not really alone. You're here, and so is Donna. If I sink those terrific facts into my thick, emotional head, my work, and yours, should be a lot easier. 
Thanks for listening, Father. I'll talk to you again later. 
___j 
NOW. 1/SING A NVM8£R. IWO PENCIL) 81(£AK THE 
SEAL ON }'VV/i! PI..AYBOOXS .. /l/R.N 7V PAGe ONE ANO REA[) 51U3NTLY 
UJJ.IILE I R.EAO A L-Oll//. 
"11115 
PtAY8001<. 
15 PEPICATW 108AR1 
STARR." "7}(15 PI.AYBOOif I 15 PE/)/(ATEJ) 10 BAnSfA!i!li!." 
0 
0 

-----------1 
Wednesday, September 5: 1973 the observer 
9 ! 


Paems,Prayers,and Pramises 
vices Office has groundout press releases and reports by ~ the dozen concerning coeducation and its effect upon the campus. The Alumni Association chose coeducation as the t topic for its last series of Universal Notre Dame nights • across the country; Notre Dame Magazine has done two ~
What of a Dream Deferred 
major cover stories on the subject in a year -everywhere, 
the signs of University publicity are apparent. 
Despite the excitement and print devoted to women in their first year on campus, there remains the question of whether Notre Dame has committed itself to the education of women 
rad braye 
•
If one hopes to make any sense of the past year, By rights then, now that women live as "equals" at Notre as individuals rather than as showpieces. For all the 
:•
coeducation and its impact upon the campus must be Dame, the problem of Notre Dame's lack of catholicity in i~s publicityabout women being members of the band, there is a assessed. The difficulties of transforming a bastion of male attitude and actions towards women should be erased. Thts glaring absence of conversation concerning the lack of a education into an institution that could co_nfortably ac-is not the case, and instead, the University is guilty of an resident gynecologist for a female population that ap­comodate women, have been many and at times seemingly attitude that threatens the very reason for bringing women proaches 800 members. For all the talk about women's grade insurmountable. Even now, one would be foolish to think tbat into this community. The problem can be simply called point averages there is little said about the fact that there those difficulties have all been overcome. The halls that once paternalism: its manifestations many. . were seven black females enrolled last year, only one of echoed the names of Lujack and Rockne must now sound By way of example, women are not allowed to live off-whom was a freshman. It is equally meaningless to talk female names. The transition has been less than totally campus unless their family lives in South Bend, while their about the thousands of dollars put into renovating dar­smooth to say the least. male counterparts (except for freshmen) have been a~~:owed mitories for female use, when nothing is said about the 
In the two school years before coeducation became a to move off-campus for years. Anyone who has ever tned to dozens of occasions when females are made to feel un­reality, 1 shared with many, the belief that with women on secure student housing in South Bend may well question why comfortable within· this university's classrooms. campus, most of the social problems of the student body anyone would move,but that is not the point. What is of All of these instances when viewed seperately canl:>e seen would disappear. It was easier to accept the disap-substance is that female students are forced to remain on as disturbing but hardly worthy of the alarmist note I have pointments of this institituion by imagining the trouble free campus while male students are free to move off. The perhaps inadvertently attached to them. When viewed as an days that would follow the arrival of women. When looking reasons advanced for this policy include the statements that overall pattern, however, the show a lack of concern and back at those times and the ridiculous expectations only a handful of women expressed any desire to move off-awareness that is similarily manifested in the University's coeduation was to fulfill, a person is somewhat shaken by the campus and that the administration didn't want its female behavior toward black students and women faculty,to name simplistic notion of women that can be gathered by a man in students to move into the unsafe conditions that could be two groups. This lack of awareness is especially irritating the company of 6000 other men. Coeducation has not proved found in South Bend. The fallacies of these arguments are when it is realized that coeducation has proven to be an to be the panacea that many had hoped. Instead, coeducation readily apparent. It shouldn't matter if only one female enormous success among the undergraduate student body. has brought its own set of problems; problems that must be student was mterested in moving, sm should have the same The opportunity to meet and deal with women as fellow addressed if coeducation is ever to be successful. right to determine her lifestyle as any other student. As for students and friends has been appreciated and warmly ac-
There will always remain the disquieting thought that if the true reasoning that females shouldn't be exposed to the ·~epted by the majority of students and there is more honest 
administration had been free to make a decision for or unsafe streets of South Bend, it is interesting that a similar male-female communication on this campus than there has 
against co-education without financial, student, and alumni concern nas not been expressed for the hundreds of male ever been. 
pressures, the decision may not have been in favor of ad-students being force.d to move off-campus due to a lack of on-As the school year starts, the excitement that surrounded 
mitting women. This intuition stems from the belief that campus accomodati.ons. coeducation last year must fade and the true acceptance of 
Notre Dame had reached a crisis point in the articulation of When searching for a reason to explain why females must women as students begin. To ask the 800 women enrolled 
its raison d'etre as an educational entity. That crisis remain on-campus, the question of visibility .jUickly arises. within the university to continue to lie in the fishbowl of 
revolved around the realization that it had become in-Too much money, time, and energy have been expended in publicity that was their fate last year, would be detrimental 

creasingly difficult to justify the use of the word catholic in bringing women to campus to allow them to move off-campus to the original purpose for bringing them here: their 
describing an institution that denied admission to over one until there are sufficient numbers to offset the lack of education and growth as individuals. If we can get away 
half of the nation's population. The very absence of women visibility that would occur if female students chose not to from the mentality that spawned that type of publicity, this 
made a mockery of any claims that the university live on campus. column can take its place among the other pieces that ad-
represented the personification of a "christian community." One has only to look at the public relations coup pulledby dressed themselves to evils now cured. This is a viable 
If anything, a person's sense of humanism and catholicity the University to realize that female visibility and access possibility in the upcoming year; it is certainly a goal worth 

were continually assaulted by the implications of that are important to the administration. omission. 

The Information Ser-working toward. 

The Observer today introduces to its campus readers the work of Pulitzer Prize winning cartoonist Pat Oliphant. ms work, some of which is pictured on this page, has also merited for him the Sigma Delta Chi award for editorial cartooning. 
A native of Australia, Oliphant came to the United States with his family in 1964 and since that time has been displaying his prize-winning work in the Denver Post. At present, his art is syndicated to more than 300 other newspapers across the country. 
"The basis of my cartoon is humor," says Oliphant, for "there is no better vehicle for satirical thought." In those instances where a particularly grim subject might indicate straight approach, "the contrast that humor affords thrusts the messaee home with fresh impact." 
Prior to his arrival in Denver, Oliphant had already established himself as a cartoonist of note. From 1955 until his departure for America, he was the editorial cartoonist of of the Adelaide Advertiser, the state's largest daily newspaper. 
In i958, he won two of the top prizes in London's "Great Challenge Editorial Cartoonist Competition," an in­ternational contest designed to find the funniest editorial cartoonist in the world. All western nations were represented in the competition. 
Besides the Pulitzer Prize and the Sigma Delta Chi award both of which he garnered in 1966, Oliphant has been a two­time recipient of the Reuben Award, presented by the National Cartoonists Society as Outstanding Cartoonist of 1972. 
Artist Oliphant tackles the world of politics, foreign affairs, social attitudes, and customs in the traditior. of European master humorists, but directs his work squarely at an American audience. His international background, talent, and complete editorial freedom make this possible. 
And Oliphant has a real grasp of the American point of view. He understands the American way of life and reflects this incisive outlook in all of his cartoon panels. 
Starting today, the Observer will regularly offer the work of this renowned young artist as an addition to the editorial and features departments. Make it a point to look for Oliphant's distinctive viewpoints on these pages. 

the observer Wednesday, September 5, 1973
10 
summer of 73 
steve madgzinski 

They said it could never happen. But Notre Dame in summer is a world apart welcome and well-used sight. 
downpour which left bumper-deep water induring the summer of '73 the campus of from the Notre Dame that most students The world of entertainment for the ND several parking lots and turned the road ­
Notre Dame experienced: know. Only six weeks, from mid-Juneto early summer resident does not include football from the Morris Innto O'Shaughnessey into August are taken up by the academic rigors games, concerts or An Tostal weekends. 
a ten-inch deep river. 

1) Twenty-two thousand people in the of sum~er school. The rest of the summer It does, however, indude the Summer Film The sound of drums and a thousand young is filled with conferences and events of Festival, the ND-SMC Summer Theater or
football stadium--praying. voices during exam week brought com­
2) Beer flowing freely from kegs on the various importance and size. And when simply learning the lost art of relaxation. 
plaints from summer school students, in­
quads. there are no conferences or classes, Notre With a summer school audience of mostly cluding a petition to ban the event from the 
3) Notre Dame students protesting the Dame is a pleasantly relaxing, sometimes religious, one cannot expect to see such campus during summer school in future presence of marching bands on campus. lazy and sometimes boring place to be. films as "Deep Throat" or "Last Tango in years. Students, however, were not the only 4) Two-hundred cheerleaders living in Fortunately for those who stayed on campus Paris," but offerings such as "Billy Jack," ones affected by the noise. One high­
Pangborn Hall. this past summer, the weather was mar-"Klute" and "Butch Cassidy and the Sun­ranking University official was rudely
5) An absence of rain. velous, so the St. Joe Lake beach was a dance Kid" are good substitutes. The 1973 awakened at six a.m. one morning by an 
Summer Theater performed "The Fan­early practice session. tasticks," "The Effect of Gamma Rays on Man-in-the-Moon Marigolds," "The Man Orgy?Who Came to Dinner" and several
··heinlein 's last" 
children's plays. Luckily for University officials, the Notre Dame Sports Camp, for boys 9-16 yearsjoseph abel/ old, finished its last session several days
Charismatic Renewal Conference 

before the young AYOP majorettes poured Robert Heinlein's last book, "I Will Fear gets the hots for him. The most incredible onto the campus. It would have been quite No Evil," demonstrated what a death-fear example of this is when he timetravels into For several weeks after graduation, the an orgy! 
can produce: a lot of semi-moralistic the past and is vurtual)y seduced by his own campus was devoid of students, professors The voices of two-hundred high school whinings about "love" in a fantasy where mother (secret Heinlein longings? How and all other forms of life, save the squirrels cheerleaders, attending the United States death does not exist. His latest is even about it, all you psych majors?) and the ducks. But on June 1, 22,000 persons Cheerleader Association summer camp, worse. Secondly, and this is a continual Heinlein from around the world converged on Notre filled Stepan Center in early August with 
"Time Enough For Love," as this fault, his characters have all been cut out of Dame for the seventh annual International such offbeat cheers as "Peace, love, power gargantuan work IS titled, appears to be a the same mold without even removing the Conference on the Charismatic Renewal in to the people, Mama" and "We got a ba-a-ad book a man writes when he's afraid he won't flashing along the edges. That each and the Catholic Church. Because the team!" The only problems caused by the finish it. The original premise is every character should use the same, semi­University itself has beds for only about 5000 cheerleaders were cheering in the dining fascinating: a man, born in 1912, is a natural "hip" language main character Lazarus people, the other 17,000 had to be housed in halls and in the area of summer school Methuselah and lives over 2300 years, Long uses across a span of 2300 years and locales such as the Athletic and Convocation student dorms. spanning countless planets and cultures. He God knows how many light years of space is Center, where 800 people camped on the One summer conference did provide a wants to die, but can't until his "story" is simply too much to take. gym floors ;and as far away as Goshen and little controversy. The Planned Parenthood told. The possibilities are virtually Valparaiso. to which buses traveled in the Conference, held June 3-5, was picketed by a
Advice and more advice
limitless! Unfortunately, Heinlein does not mornings and again at night. group of about ten people, because of stands seem satisfied with simply limitless Perhaps the most curious event of the of several of the Planned Parenthood
Finally, Heinlein uses his book to pass on
possibilities; instead, he decides to rehash Charismatic Renewal Conference, for those participants' views on the subject of
the advice and opinions of a lifetime. And
three old themes, all familiar to Heinlein who were merely bystanders was the fact abortion. <See the Sept. issue of Notre
believe me, that is a hell of a lot. The first was forecast three
readers. that rain heavily all Dame Magazine for the complete story.) 
whole section is little more than Long sitting days, but, except for light shower late
a In recent weeks the University hosted 
Old themes in a hospital bed, doing nothing BUT giving Saturday night, it didn't rain until Monday­several other largeconferences, includingadvice. Later in the book, he takes off to after the 22,000 in the stadium had finished the Midwest Mobile, Modular and
another planet and just sits around giving their weekend of "Praising the Lord." Vehicle the
Recreational Show, largestThe first is Heinlein's inability to cope more advice. 
show of its kind in the world, and thewith the endless possibilities of the future. This includes things ranging from why Weekend of beer Christian Family Movement Conference,So he returns to an old standby: the hippies should cut their hair short, yet leave which drew 1,000 perticipants. {Anyonepresent. Or rather, the immediate past. it a little long--it won't get in your eyes, but Another gathering, also an annual returning to campus several days earlyHeinlein's no dummy; he knows he can't it'll protect your scalp from tomahawks {! )­summer affair on the Notre Dame campus, probably noticed the acres of debris in the really write about a future that is turning -to how to stock a covered wagon. Heinlein was the Alumni Reunion, held June 7-9.This ACC and stadium parking lots left behind out to be considerably worse than the rather even capsulizes this advice to form parts year, for the first time in Notre Dame from the Mobile Home Show). 
rosy, man-is-the-<lestined-master-of-the­one and two of "The Notebooks of Lazarus history, the wives of ND graduates attended One of the more prestigious events of the universe idea he's used so often. So he turns Long" in the middle of the book. The worst 
the Reunion. Alumni weekend is a weekend summer was a symposium held Aug. 28­to the somewhat simplistic, "homey" life of part is the thinly-disguised tale of Heinlein's of beer and old friends and more beer and 31 entitled "War: Its Causes and 
the mid-twentieth century, which as we all own days at the Naval Academy and his more old friends and even more beer. But Correlates." The conference, attended byknow, was the "golden age" of Earth. This advice on how to attend Naval Academies. 
no one, not even Security, seems to mind. forty professors from universities around makes for a curious juxtaposition of 1940's These are the lengths Heinlein has gone to alumnus offered a beer in trade
<One 1963 the world, was a preliminary conference to morals and 4000-something-or-other's to produce a book that could almost be titled for my Frisbee, but I thought he was getting a larger worldwide Congress held a week 
lifestyle, a combination that just doesn' t "Heinlein's Last." The combination of his the better part of the deal, so he drank the later in Chicago. 
come off as believable. Throwing in little moralistic whinings on sex, his in­
beer and I still have the Frisbee.) Summer must end, however, and perhaps 
goodies like continual orgies with such conceivable hypothesis of a future universe July 31-August 4 the University played the end of summer at Notre Dame is improbable things as computers and space of identital characters and endless store of host to an extravaganza entitled America's marked in a way similar to that of another ships, only makes it worse. shotgun-patterned advice is simply too Youth on Parade <AYOPl, in which over famous locale. Anyone who traveled north Those sex fantasies, by the way, also add much. The man has just got to be kidding. 
1,000 of America's Youth vied for trophies across the Michigan state line last weekend to the unreal tone of the book. The lead Hopefully, this will be his last book, before and ribbons in baton twirling, drum and found that, just as the swallows alwayscharacter need only have a vague desire for he destroys the magnificent empire he's 
bugle corps, and majorette competition. return to Capistrano, the students of Notre any girl in the book, and instantly, the girl already built. The group was greeted on July 31 by a Dame always return to Kubiak's. -
JIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII(I ~ 
Thrill your parents 
with a subscription to The Observer 
First concert

$8.00 a semester or $14.00 a year 
Fill out the form below 
of the 

The Observer 
= yearlll 


: 

Subscription Dept. 
= = 
1 BoxQ 
= = 
1 University of Notre Dame 
i ~ = THE TEMPTAllONS I ~ = 
= = 
= = 
Saturday, Sept. 8, 
name_________---1 Athletic & Convocation Center 
address ____~~--------------------~ 
zip·
city· state __---1 E All seats res~rved $3, $4.50, $5.50 E 1 semester{$8.00)-1 year($14.00)_--1 E tickets on sale at i is this a continuance from last 
§ i 
year/semester?· 
j§Athletic & Convocation Center Monday-Saturday, 9 a.m.· 5 pm i 
• U::==============~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~IIIIIIIIIIIIIIRIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllli 


Pentacostals 
praise the Lord 
in ND stadium 
by Jerry Lutkus man last night was "clearly out of 
Editor-in-Chief order." 
<Reprinted permission of "He should have believed that if 
South Bend Tribune he got this message from God then 
"The Spirit of Jesus is among likewise someone on the platform 
us'' proclaimed two banners with a mi~rophon~ who could have 
strung across the scoreboards in· commumcated It to everyone 
Notre Dame's stadium where over would receive this message," she 
25,000 people attended a general claimed. . . . 
session of the International Con-As the evenmg contmued, wit­
ference on the Charismatic nesses would give their testimony 
Renewal on Saturday, June 2. to Christ and in the interludes 
The 25,000 people had come for a bet"':een statements_, the ~ushed 
weekend of prayer unity stadium would be filled With the 
workshops and togeth~rness at slowly growing whispering of the 
Notre Dame in the seventh annual thousands praying until it finally 
gathering of the charismatics or erup~ed into a prayer of song. The 
pentecostals. singing and praying, commonly 
These people are a group ~eferred t? as speaking in tong_ues, 
founded within the Roman Catholic Jelled mto a harmomous 
Church but ecumenical in mem-arrangement that would defy any 
bership, calling for a self-renewal composer. , . . 
of Christians. Saturday s sessiOn began m the 
"It's not only the Catholic bright sun at 10 a.m. "':hen Kerry 
Church here " said Father Koller from San Francisco called 
Duncan MacD~nnell who came to the crowd "Good Morning. 
from Edmonton Alberta Canada Praise the Lord." 
for the confere~ce. "It:s a real A welcome from Bishop Joseph 
gathering of all Christians in-Crowley ?f the Fort Wayne-South 
terested in unity a spirit of hope Bend diOcese prefaced the 
and sense of deep renewal." testimony, song, and prayer. 
Accomodations at Notre Dame Mrs. Lavonne Harmon, who 
were not sufficient to house the came with her husband and two 
thousands who poured in from all children from Boise, Id~ho to 
over the United States Canada attend the conference, said they 
and the rest of the world: Housing came "to find more openness to 
was set up at Goshen College, St. God." 
Mary's College South Bend hotels Each year the conference is 
and even a~ far away a~ big~er and. different," said 
Valparaiso University. ~arilyn BonJean ~ho was at her 
In past years the basic thrust of fifth conference. The people are 
the conferenc~ and the core of yery warm and kind, at peac~ a~d 
leadership were supplied by True It shows. Through us the Lord IS 
House a Notre Dame-based planning to renew His church.," 
comm~nity. This year, however, .T~e conference is not with?ut its 
for the first time conference diSSident elements. According to 
leaders have come from all over the campus security force, a few 
the United States. revivalists were asked to leave. 
When the conference opened They w~~e tho~g~~ to have co~e 
Friday night, it was already twice for the. theatrics of the affair, . the size of 1972 gathering and more they said. 
than four times larger than the Jean Roch Roy, who brought a 
conference of 1971 and most of the Canadian Broadcasting Cor­
early-comers converged at the poration crew to film a 
stadium for a Friday night prayer documentary of it, complained 
session. that he was disappointed. 
They prayed in darkness with "I came all this way to see 
their leaders, seated on a lighted something I could have seen in 
platform in what normally would Montreal. Before, the spirit was 
be the end zone at the southern end only supposed to speak through the 
of the oval. Many prayed aloud, bishop," he said. "Now, it's only 
lifting their arms to receive the supposed to speak through the 
spirit and to receive the charisms, people on the platform. It's all 
the gifts of the Holy Spirit. screwed up." 
When a lone voice called out 
from high in the stadium, shouting .r. 
The. actual movement began 
seven years ago at Notre Dame. Rev. Edward O'Connor, C.S.C., one of the founders said, "When we started, we had 25 people gathered·· in a one-room house in South Bend and were wondering what is going to come of this movment." 
They stress renewal within the church through a personal relationship with the Holy Spirit and its gifts such as healing, prophesy and tongues. Intensive Bible study is an important facet of the Charismatic Renewal. 
The movement has grown considerably as shown ·in the history of the Charismatic Renewal Conference. At the first event in 1967, 90 people from Notre Dame and Michigan State University joined together in what was called "a reflection of what the Lord was doing with them." 
In 1968, 150 people came to Notre Dame for the affair and the number jumped to 450 in 1969. The 1970 conference ended with a mass concelebrated by 40 priests with over 1,300 people in attendance. 
1971 and 1972 found first 4,500 and then 11,000 people coming to South Bend to "Praise the Lord." 
At this year's conference, a plane flew low over the stadium as Patty Gallagher of New Orleans gave her testimony Saturday. The stadium was full with people from the U.S. and others from Ireland, Israel, Germany, South America, India, Belgium, France, Australia, Mexico, Korea, and Puerto Rico. The noise covered her words until the plane pulled up and everyone heard her announce "Praise the 
Lordy Jesus Christ," The crowd as 
one responded back: "Praise the . Lord, Alleluia." 
1 


------------------------, 
~~a~~se~~:w~!~~o~~\~:sv~~::~ NEED ACHEST OF DRAWER 
and instruments of the Pen­~ecostals who began to sing a JOYOUS song.
Many who criticize the movement, claim that those in it are close-minded and tend to 
ostracize those, like the man at the prayer session, who disagree with them. Yet Sister MB;rie Catherine
of True House explamed that the 
Summer break-in 
(continued from page 3) 
that there would be very fw more claims. "I am not convinced that this (the break in) is going to condemn future summer storage in the fieldhouse." 
All the stereos,golf clubs and clearly markea valuable items were stored in Stepan Center this year, according to Hunt, and thus 
buy it unpainted...save !h or morel
how ab t
ou a rugftr 
. . •
B1g sovmgs on all Sizes 
C 1 1 · f 
omp_ ete se ectlon 0 
NEWEST STYLES AND COLORS 
ust about everything in bookcases h t 
. . • C es S record cabinets, end tables... you name it! 

WILLIAM'S 
Rugs and unpainted furniture and Notre Dame Student Union ON CAMPUS at the old fieldhouse 
w~re not threatened.. Hunt also also at 2609 South Michigan St. South Bend 
said thatnext year 1t would be · made clear that bikes would have no liability, and neither will 
and
stereos which are not marked since marked stereos will be stored in Stepan. .1217 East McKinle Mishawaka· 
~--~~~~~--~~~~~~~~ 



1 1 

Welcome Class of '771 
Please Compare/// 
Befote You Buy Or Lease a 
REFRIGERATOR 
Look for these features: 
Look for these features: 
4.6 Cubic Feet (The Legal Limit)Push Button Defrosting Sliding Shelves Work Top No Deposit 
FREE Delivery -Maintenance -Pickup Local Dealer -Student Reps 
economical 
CALL NOW ESLINGER LEASE SERVICE 
259 2242 
291 5676 

the Windiammer 
has it all for 
you••• 


*three expert barber stylists 
*complete line of RK hair care products 
*relaxed atmosphere 
Long hair can be a problem, if it is not shaped 
properly. Our expert barber-stylists will take the 
time to help you find the style that best fits your
needs. 

all services by appointment 
1637 lincoln way west 232-6622 
Ohe WinJjammer 
HAIR STYLING FOR DISCRIMINATING MEN & BOYS 
r------------------------~--~------------:-----~-------------, 
• ~ 
•
•l 

•t 


l I 
i 
l t 
12 
the observer Wednesday, September 5, 1973 
MAIL ORDER SALE 
We find that too often customers presume that they can save hundreds of dollars taking their chances with mail oder houses. Our answer to this is bring your current mail order quotes. You might ;ust find that our values are even betterll 



This is the lowest prices receiver we know of, which has received acceptance by the critical audio en­thusiasts. It was recently top-rated above all others in the under $200 price range by both MUSIC WORLD and STAFF magazine. 
SHERWOOD 

SHERWOOD 57100a 
The Sherwood S7100a is the receiver which is highly recommended in its price range by the editors of AUDIO, STEREO REVIEW, HIFI TIMES, STEREO BUYERS GUIDE, a leading con­sumer reporting agency, and virtually every knowledgeable dealer in the country. 
25% OFF SUG~~~l~~ 
ON SOME MODELS OF speakers from famous brands like••• 
*AR *KLH 
*DYNACO *OTHERS 


CREATIVE 66 
Here's the luxurious sound of a big speaker system in a space-saving cabinet. It offers the clarity and musical definition you's expect to hear in a speaker many times its price. This is the idea I unit for a medium power stereo system and for use as a secondary set of speakers. 

EPilOG 
This speaker has few, if any, peers in the under $100. price range. At recent speaker clinics, its frequency response, transient response, and dispersion were superior to 90 per cent of the speakers selling for more than twice its price.

SHERWOOD 
GARRARD40B ADC250XE 
The Garrard 40 B is the lowest-priced Garrard changer which can track a good magnetic cartridge like the ADC 250 X E. 

LIST $395 NOW $269.95 

GARRARD SL 55 B SHUREM75ED 
The Garrard SL 55 B includes Garrardd's famous syn­chronous motor which en­sures that speed variations are held to a minimum. 

---,~--------~--­1 
September 5, 1973 the observer l3 
21 new faculty members added at SMC 


by Maria Gallagher Saint Mary's Editor 
Staff changes have been made in almost every academic depart­ment at Saint Mary's with the addition of nine new full-time faculty and 12 new part-time tea­chers. Four are returning from leaves of absence. 
Earl Holmes joins the biology department as an assistant professor, corr.ing from Elizabethtown College. He received his B.A., M.S. and Ph.D from Earlham College, 1\l,ller­sville State College, and Texas A & M Universiy respectively, and also taught at Franklin Pierce College. 
The newly-expanded department of business administrationand economics adds four part-time 
SMC govt 
to boost 
Student Board 
by Mary Janca 
Staff Reporter 
Getting the newly-structured 
Student Board of Governance to 
function successfully is the major 
goal for St. Mary's student 
government this year, according to 
its chairman, Barb McKiernan. 
"We have to see that it is going to 
work before we announce the 
proposals we hope to pass through 
it," she said. 
The Board is a triumvirate, 
composed of a chairman, the Hall 
Life Commissioner, and the 
Student Affairs Commissioner. 
Under the Hall Life Commissioner 
are the 4 hall presidents, while the 
4 class officers are under the 
Student Affairs Commissioner. 
"The main idea of this 
structure," explained McKier­
nan , "is to diffuse student 
government. Class presidents 
were not really brought in and 
involved, and the hall presidents 
were isolated in each of their own 
halls." 
Under the new system, she 
continued, class and hall 
presidents can exchange ideas and 
get help from each other. One has 
to do with other, she said. 
THE BOARD WILL also get away from a 'figurehead' type of student government, as it was. There is to much for 1or 2 people to do. More people will be involved this way," she added. 
McKiernan labelled the Board an "experiment." However, "I'm positive it will work. The feeling of the school is up, and this is much better than the old structure.'' 
However, other structural changes, such as the creation of a College Senate, review of the Student Relations Board, and the choosing of a student represen­tative on the Board of Regents, are already in the making, according to McKiernan. 
"THE COLLEGE SENATE is a step from the planning process, and will include alumnae, faculty members and students serving in a senatorial capacity. It will work like the U.S. Senate," stated the Board Chairman. 
The senate, she believes, will give SMC President Dr. Edward Henry "a unified backing," since proposals passed through this body must meet the approval of all members of the SMC community. 
Thus, any proposals passed by the Student Assembly will be sent to the College Senate, and from there to the Board of Regents for approval, added McKiernan. 
THE STUDENT RELATIONS BOARD, formerly the Judicial Board, will be reviewed to allow each hall to make more of their 
(continued on page 15) ! 
lecturers. John Gaither Jr., B.B.A. Notre Dame; Michael McCuddy, 
B.S. and M.S. Indiana University; Thomas Orsi, B.B.A. andM.B.A. University of Dlinois; and William Schmuhi,B.B.A. and J.D. Notre Dame, and M.B.A. University of Chicago are included in the eight­person department. 
Dr. Vatsala Srinvasan willlecture 
part-time in ttie ctiemistry and physics department. No background information was available on Dr. Srinivasan. 
The education department adds Robert Ernst as a part-time lec­turer. He received both his bachelor's and master's degrees Notre Dame. 
Two new faculty will join the 
English department. Sister Eva 
Mary Hooker, C.S.C., will be an 
assistant professor, coming from 
Dunbarton College. She received 
her bachelor's degree from Saint 
Mary's, her master's from the 
University of Notre Dame, and her 
doctorate from SUNY at Buffalo. 
Ann Loux, who previously taught at Saint Mary's returns as a lec­turer in English. A graduate of Maryville College, she received her M.A.T. from the University of Chicago. She has taught at Indiana University. 
Mathematics 
Mathematics adds Martin Dull and Margaret Prullage as assistant professor and lecturer respectively. Dr. Dull received his 
A. B. from Boston College, his M.S. and Ph. D. from Notre Dame, and was a graduate assistant at Western Michigan University. He has also taught at the University of Pittsburgh. Prullage holds a B.A. from Rosary College, an M.A. from the University of Wisconsin, and has taught at Saint Joseph College and Georgetown College. 
Josephine Barallat, Ann Clark, and Sister Maria Assunta Werner, C.S.C., return from leaves of ab­sence to the modern language, philosophy, and religious studies departments respectively. 
Music The music department will include two new instructors, John Fisher and Mary Spencer. Fisher holds a B.A. and an M.M. from Iiana University, and Spencer holds a B.M. andM.M.from the University of North carolina and the Univer§ity of Illinois She has taught at Salem College, the University of Illinois, and Millikia University. 
Gallagher, South Bend Director of Dacca, East Pakistan, and at Public Safety, as a part-time Dunbarton College. lecturer, and Sister M. Rose Two lecturers will join the Bernard as an associate professor. speech and drama department. 
Berglund received his B.A. from James Baxter, B.A. DePauw Hamline University, his M.S.W. University, and M.A. University of from the University of Denver, and New York (now Brooklyn has taught at Indiana University, College), was an instructor at rlr~dle~ University, Adelphi Notre Dame. Cheryl Hughes, B.A. Umvers1ty, and Hofstra Univer~ Miami University and M.A. North­sity. Gallagher is a graduate of western University was a research Marist College, and received his assistant at Northwestern 
M.A. 
from New York University. University. He is a Ph.D candidate at Purdue. In addition to intradepartmental Sister M. Rose Bernard received changes, Brother Bernard her B.S. from S .int Mary's, her Donahoe will be acting chairman 

M.A. 
from Notre Dame, of the history department for the . and .her .aoctorate from 73-74 school year and Dr. Mary 


Daniel Mandell who holds Catholtc Umvers1ty. She has Martucci will head the new nursing master's degree~ in both tafu"'g"""ht:........:.a:.:.t-'H=o.::.:l:..:.v-=C.:..:ro:::s:::s_.::::C::::ol~le::!:g~e~in!__d.:...e~pa_:_r_t_n_l.::_en::..t::...-------~ 
philosophy and theology from Notre Dame and Fordham University, will be a lecturer in 

BICYCLE CENTER
the philosophy department. 
The political science department adds two lectureres, Frank Palopoli and Wilda Morris. Palopoli received his B.A., and M. 
A. from LaSalle College and Notre Dame respectively, and Morris received her B.A., from American 
University and Ph. D. from the University of Illinois. She has taught at the University of Illinois and Indiana University at South 
Bend. 
Two new members will join the psychology department. )_oseph; Miller, who holds an A.B. from Lycoming College. and M.A.C.T. from University of Tennessee, will be an assistant professor, andKaren Arrington, who holds a B.A. from Pennsylvania State University, and M.A. from Notre Dame. Miller has taught at TempleBuell College, Set Briar College, and the University of Tennessee. Arrington has taught at Indiana University. 
Sociology adds Robert Berglund as an associate professor, Patrick 
-

THE NOTRE DAME-SAINT MARY'S THEATRE 
announces TRYOUTS Shakespeare's RICHARD Ill O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM (Saint Mary's) 
September s and 6 at 7 p.m. Call backs -September 7 (Information on tryouts may be obtained from Speech and Drama Department office, Room 110, Moreau Hall, Saint Mary's) 
OPEN TO ALL ND-SMC STUDENTS 
1437 Portage Ave. Phone 287-1673 
Ask for student discounts 
Hours:  Daily 9:30-5:30 Mon. till 8:30  10 SPEED RACERS ON HIND FOR  
JI1111EDIITE  
We service all makes  DELIVERY!  


~ ~~l'~ 
~ """~~' 
exciting designs in dresses & separates hand crafted jewelry indian impo~ts 119 W. COLFAX 
DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND 
The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore located on the Campus is ready to serve you 
"Dependable Quality At Students' Prices" 

Text Books ­ New  & Used  
Paperback Books  Notre Dame Jackets  
School Supplies  Sportswear  
Drawing Instruments  Monogram Blankets  
Drawing Supplies  Toilet Articles  
Stationery  Desk Lamps  
Typewritet·s  Religious Articles  
Expert Radio  & Typewriter repair  Jewelry & Class Rings  
Cameras & Film  Radios & Records  
Typewriters For Rent ­ 

Rental May Apply Toward the. Purchase of Your Own Machine hours 9:00-5:00 Monday-Saturday 



14 
the observer Wednesday~· September 5, 1973 
Notre Dame victim of U.S. beef shortage 
Notre Dame has not gone food services are the cost of food "We are not eliminating seconds more. "25 of the new board rates will go unaffected by the recent beef and its availability, said Ryan. or anything like that," Ryans said. Ryan said that there was a $35 for food. It won't even be able to shortage and food price increases Price emphasized that the menus He noted that students should take increas~. in board rates to help come close to the increase. We'll that are plagueing the country. had to be altered because certain only what they can eat and then cover nsmg expenses, but he noted have to bite the bullet somewhere According to Food Sevices items are just not available in come back for seconds if they want that it hardly covers the increases. along the way," Ryan said. Director, Edmund T. Price, menus large quantities. drawn up months ago have already 
"We are not compromising," had to be altered. 
Price said, "but it may be in­St. Mary's also plagued 
--Custom hand made Part time bartenders, waitresses rustic furniture. Prices and waiters needed. Students 
Notre Dame's first woman dean, 
Sr. Isabel Charles, O.P., has been 
low-no middle man. Also only inquire. Ask for Mike.appointed as assistant dean in thr 
waterbeds. Call for ap-· 
Red Door Clubpoinment. 234.4654.

university's College of Arts and 
llOif2 N. Main

Letters. 233-9277 Dr. Charles completed her un­dergradate work at Manhattan 
256 0 J J J 
Collgge, Riverdale, N.Y., and 
Special

received an l\4A and Ph.D. in English from Notre Dame. She 
paintings 25% off

studied for a year at the Center for 
Cards 
the Study of Higher Education at 
'BOOK

the University of Michigan. 
Books
Since 1969, she has served as e­xecutive vice president and 
Magazines
academic dean of Ohio Dominican 
mini-mall
SUA.

College in Columbus, where she 
town & country · 2340 miracle lane Art
had previously taught for three 
shopping center . . mishawaka, indiana 46544 

years on the English faculty. su
Sr. Isabel Charles, O.P. 

50760 U.S. 31 NORTH 3Miles North of NO ... Near the State Line. 
t 

Bro. Kiernan Ryan, Asst. Vice terpretted that way by those who 
President for Business Affa.irs, don't know the situation." said that the budget for the dining He pointed out that at nne point halls 1!!hs been upped by 23 per cent this summer, food services or­
over the original figures with 30 dered 5000 pounds of beef and per cent of the jump going for meat received 900 pounds. costs. "We've got all the beef that we 
The only contract that the food can get out hands on," he con­services officials have been able to tinued. "For the first weeks, we're acquire for food supplies is for in extremely good shape compared eggs. Last school year, the egg to other institutions." 
Ryan pointed out that a bigcontract cost the -university '1:1 
problem and a big solution to the cents a pound. This year the 
problem at hand is the control of contract calls for 52 cents a pound. waste. "Ifwaste continues, then The two big problems that face our prices art! JUSt going to go up." 
'Equality; Political Style' 
SMC to host WPC 
A day-long workshop, three workshop sessions wiH be "Equality: Political Style," will held from ll:OOa.m. until1:30 p.m. be held at Saint Mary's Saturday, Topics will include campagin September 15. Sponsored by the organization, commissions, and state and local Women's Political use of the media. Each session Caucus, the wo; ltshop will bring will include a panel of women women to the area from all over experienced in a particular 
the state. segment of political activity. The day's activities will begin at The luncheon speaker will be Ms. 
10:00 a.m. in the Little Theatre, Julia Carson, a member of the where Ms. Frances "Sissy" Indiana House of Representatives. Farenthold will give the keynote Held in the College's dining hall, 
address. Farenthold is president lunch will begin at 1:30 p.m.. of the National Women's Political Afternoon workshop sessions 
Caucus. An attorney by will cover serving in office, "the profession, Farenthold was a ropes" <how to get involved, by Texas state representative, run­those who have), and task forces ner-up for the vice-presidential on the status of women. nommation at the 1972 Democratic "Equality: Political Style" is conYention, and a strong contender open to the public. Admission to for the governorship of Texas in Farenthold's speech is $1.00. 1972 Farenthold's main goal as Tickets for the entire day's ac­pre~1dent of the national WPC is tivities, including the speech, "to encourage women to become workshop sessions, and lunch, are candidates and help them get $5.00. For tickets and more in­elected." foramtion, contact Ms. Rolande 
Following the speech, a series of Parent, 233-7549. 
S! : gets new athletic equipment 
The lack of recreational through the student center at a 
facii,ties at Saint Mary's has been cost of $25 for the nours of 8 to 
filled this summer with the in-10p.m. Monday-Friday and 7 to 10 
stalia~ion of a pool, driving range p.m. Saturday and Sunday. Each 
and putting green, resurfaced group must provide its own 
tennis courts and a more fully-lifeguard, but the student center 
equipped exercise room in the will furnish a list of available 
student center. lifeguards. 
The 11-foot deep pool, built by the The roof will be installed during 
Holy Cross sisters, is located in a 10-day period in 
the Regina South courtyard which IContractors have dssured the 
will eventually be enclosed by a college that the work will be 
roof. Temporary dressing rooms completed as quickly as possible. 
are available, but permanent The golf range and putting green 
facihties are planned. will not be ready until October. 
Pool hours will be Monday-Weather permitting, they will be 
Friday from 1 to 4 and 5 to 7 available from Monday through 
for St. Mary's women, faculty and Friday from 11 to 2 p.m. and 
staff and Saturday and Sunday Saturday and Sunday from 4 to 8 
from noon to 6p.m. for all. A fee of p.m. Cost is 50 cents per bucket of 
50 cents per guest or $1.00 · per balls. _ . 
family will be charged. A "guest" Saunas in the Regina exercise 
is defined as any person not room may be booked through the 
direl tly connected with SMC. student center. They are open only 
Pool parties may be reserved to women. 
Sister Isabel Charles: ND's first woman dean 
Saga switching tosubstitutes 
· 

Price instability and shortages stitutions of shrimp or serving of how severe the shortage, Saga will of some food items will force Saga two solid meet choices will com­not purchase horsemeat. to modigy their fall menus ac­prise the Satuday night meal. A "Other than that, we'll use cordingly, says Saint Mary's food third item with unlimited portions whatever meat is available," he service director CrawfordCaswelJ. will also be served, he added. siad. 
In a statement for publication, . Caswell termed the measures a Caswell refuses to buy black 
Caswell recognized the nationwide "drastic step." He was not aware market beef, although there is food crisis and announced cut­of how other college food services "lots of it around." backs in several areas, including are coping with their problems, but "The reason we are switching to steak specials and number of said, "They must be in the same substitutions is to maintain our servings. bind we are." quality standard. We will continue 
Effective immediately, all solid Despite price increases, Caswell to supply only Grade A, govern­meat items such as ham, chicken, assured students "We'll still serve ment inspected products." and beef will be limited to one eggs every morning," although not After meat price controls are serving at dinner only. Two other necessarily fresh eggs if the removed Sept. 12, Caswell expects choices will be available each frozen, pasteurized variety proves more beef on the market but night with unlimited helpings. cheaper and more readily predicted that "prices will be 
Concerning the elimination of available. He foresees no shor­jumping all over the place. We "steak night," Caswell noted, "It's tages in seafood, fresh fruits and won't buy anything until they almost impossible to buy beef in vegetables, juices and prk. He stabilize." any quantity;" therefore, sub-further emphasized that no matter 
Caswell refused to speculate on the future. 
"Even the suppliers can't give you an answer." 
Notre Dame sophomore 
killed in shooting 
Sandock Says ... 

Two suspects are being held in the_ trans,action. When they U~ Oklahoma City Jail c'barged arrived, 0 Connor was shot in the with the murder Of a Notre Dame back of the head and his bOdy was 
II A ROOM WITHOUT A 

student last Wednesday night. later discovered in a garabage 
RUG IS LIKE A KISS

R.onald Dean Murray, 24, and dump. Police speculate robbery Daniel Lee Grizzle, also 24, both Of was the murder motive. 
WITHOUT A HUG!" 
Oklahoma City, were arrested 

O'Connor was the son or Mr. and
Thursday by Oklahoma City police Mrs. William J. O'Connor Of

as suspects in the shooting death of Francis P. O'Connor of Oklahoma Oklahoma City. He was a former City, who would have been a Farley resident and was to have sophomore business rriajor at lived in Stanford this fall. A Notre Dame this fall. memorial mass slated for mid­
Police said that O'Connor ap­night Saturday has been parently made contact with two rescheduled for 11:00 p.m. men to buy a kilo (2.2 pounds) of Thursday night, and will be con­marijuana for $200, and celebrated by former Farley arrangements were made by the rector Fr. · James Shilts and three to go to a local motel to make Stanford rector Fr. Terry Lally. 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 
WANTED 

Wanted: Used grl's bicycle. 
Carpet Remnant 

Don't really care what shape it is in, but would prefer a three· 
Sale · 
Wanted: home for 

speed bike. Call Becky at 6993.
Labrador pup. Owner will feed, clean up. Will pay. Call 283·1628 Ken. 
HELP WANTED 
SAVEl 

Wanted: Typists for The Ob­
Gril's Group Home needs 
UP 

server. Afternoon and evening
mature, reliable couples 
(preferably without 

work on a regularly scheduled basis. Salary begins at $1.60 per
Children J to act as sub­
stitute houseparents on 

hour. Call Joe Wilkowski at 1715 week.ends. Paid position. 
or call at The Observer office on Apply to Mrs. Carol Wilken 
third floor, LaFortune Student Center.
at 233·9491 

FOR SALE Wanted: Reporters, photographers, layout personnel, and every conceivable position
Refrigerator, in good for work at The Observer. Good condition, cheap stove, promotion possibilities--rumor assorted odds and ends of 
has it that 3 good weeks of work 
furniture, kitchenware. Call and you too can become an 
234·4455 after 6 Paddy editor. Drop in The Observer office or call in at 1715. At least stop in and pay us a visit on 
1969 Chevy Impala gold 4-Activities Day and Activities 
:!oor sedan. Good condition. Night. Third floor, LaFortune 
Call 283·7558 Student Center 




16 
the observer 
Irish attack faces the challenge 
potent offensive team since the byVicDorr 1970 campaign.
Sports Editor 
"The great thing about athletics is that new challenges always lieFrom high atop Miami's Orange ahead," said Ara Parseghian,Bowl, the play did not look pretty. 
ND's veteran coach, "and nextTom Clements had guided the Irish year we'll be a year older, a yearto Nebraska's six-yard line, and more mature, and a year more now he took the snap from Joe experienced."
Alvarado and rolled out to his 
That maturity, bought with 

l()

right. 
experience, is particularly evident Clements was pursued, im­in Parseghian's two number-{)nemediately, by a cluster of white­quarterbacks, Tom Clements andshirted Nebraska defenders, and Cliff Brown. Clements, who as he neared the far sideline he started all eleven games laststopped and gunned a hurried pass season, and Brown, who guided the back across the middle of the field, Irish in seven of their ten outings in into the end zone. 
1971, were competing for a wide­

The pass threaded its way Wayne Bullock Gerry DiNardo Pete Demmerle
open qb slot during spring drills.
through another gaggle of They stayed that way through number-{)ne center's position. during the spring. One, by the a solid hold on the vacant fullbackdefenders, and Pete Demmerle the annual Blue-Gold game, and There didn't figure to be any graduation of John Dampeer, and post.
hung onto it for Notre Dame's first­now, less than three weeks before competition to either side of the other by the departure of Dave But sophomore Russ Kornman,-and final--six points of a long New the season opener, are still locked Brenneman and Alvarado. There, Casper, who left the interior line to senior Gary Diminick, junior AIYear's Night. 
in a head-to-head duel for the at the guards, the Irish had pre-play tight end. Samuel, and even freshman AI The touchdown was significant starting job. season All-American Frank Steve Sylvester (6-4, 248) and Hunter <who has been clocked in a in that it avoided a shutout, but the "You can't go through a season Pomarico ano talented junior Steve Neece (6-3, 245) have 9.3 100) may polish Notre Dame's 
significance did not end there. The with one quarterback," said Gerry DiNardo. But the picture claimed the empty positions, and already bright backfield picture
three players who handled the ball Parseghian, "so it's definitely to was scrambled last Saturday those two will be backeu up, as will before the season ends in Miami on 
during the scoring play-Alvarado, the team's advantage that we have when, during a scrimmage, tight end Casper, by a pair of December 1. .. Clements, and Demmerle-.were all some realcompetitionthere. When Parseghian 's Irish will be
Pomarico tore the ligaments in his utility linemen. Sophomore Robin
sophomores ·last season, and all two quarterbacks are battling ankle and was replaced by senior Weber (6-5, 247) and junior Steve counting on the services of one return this season with a year's nose-to-nose, it can only help both Dan Mon•in. Quehl (6-4, 238) are capable of other offensive returnee when the experience and maturity behind boys improve." DiNardo (6-1, 242) and Morrin (6-filling in at either position, but a '73 season gets underway. He's them. Ara has also been watching a 3, 240) have been running as knee injury to junior Ed Bauer­senior place-kicker Bob Thomas, a Nor are they the only ones. Two "nose-to-nose" battle develop in number-one guards since the in­who was Casper's understudy until soccer-style marksman who was halfbacks, two fullbacks, a tackle­the offensive line, where Joe jury to Pomarico, who will be he was injured Saturday--may last year's second-leading scorer. turned-tight end, and several Alvarado (6-1, 233) and Mark ready to go again in four-to-six make depth at tight end a priority Thomas clicked on every one of his linemen also return to spearhead Brenneman (6-4, 245) a pair of weeks. demand. 34 extra point attempts last season, what may be Notre Dame's most seniors, are struggling for the Both tackle slots were vacated But Casper's presence there and also hit on seven of 11 field goal 
gives the '73 Irish a good start in tries-including three of four from that direction. The 6-3, 252 lb. outside 45 yards. senior was selected as ND's team And with virtually no exceptions­captain prior to the opening of -from the contenders at quar­spring drills last year, and by the tetback to the sidewinding 
time the Blue-Gold game was placekicker--Notre Dame's '73 played in May, his transition from offense is "a year older, a year tackle to tight end was complete­more mature, and a year more 
and effective. experienced·.'' 
"By shifting Dave," said Par­It's the kind of offense that seghian, "we lost his experience at might enjoy the challenge of the '73 tackle, but we gained his ability season. and maneuverability at tight end. He has the size, quickness, overall New wrestling speed, and receiving ability. And having been a tackle for two years,
-the added blocking experience coach named makes him all the more valuable as a tight end." 
Fred A. Pechek has been ap­At the other skilled positions-at pointed head wrestling coach atwide receiver and running back­the University of Notre Dame,the Irish have been blessed with a Athletic Director Edward W.
wealth of talent. Senior Willie Krause announced today. PechekTownsend (6-3, 196) and junior succeeds Terry Mather, who hasPete Demmerle (6-1, 196) are resigned to enter private business. 
vying for the top berth at split end, and a flock of fleet backs is poised Pechek received his bachelor's to share time in the Irish backfield degree from Notre Dame in 1963, 
this year. majoring in physical education. He 
Art Best and Eric Penick (both wrestled for the Fighting Irish of whom run the 100 in well under varsity for two seasons. He earned 10 seconds) head the parade of a master's degree in educational 
returning halfbacks, and Wayne administration from the 
Bullock, who spend most of last University in 1967, and in physical season in Andy Huff's shadow, has education from Purdue in 1969. 
While studying he served as assistant wrestling coach at both institutions. 
In 1963 Pechek coached football, basketball, wrestling and track at
Pucks, passes are ND tourist lures 
by John Fineran returns to it every May. This selves to be ·experts on the sport With that kind of enthusiasim, the Vineland Junior High in Pueblo, student is used to things happening which occupies the first half os Irish finished second in the tough Colo., his hometown. During the
Western Collegiate Hockey
After three years at Notre in the Burbank of the Midwest, South Bend's busy season. 1967-68 season he was wrestling
South Bend. Now don't get me The questions which are Association and came within a
Dame, you get to know a lot of coach at Catskill (N.Y.) High 
wrong, Livingston doesn't quite becoming increasingly difficult to "red hair" of going to Boston. School.
people. In fact, they become your a answer for these parents are, There should be plenty of en­
second family. Generally, the first compare to South Bend. As Since 1969 Pechek has been the 
question they ask you when you matter of fact, I'll take South Bend "How does the basketball team thusiasm this time around with Ed head wrestling and assistant
any day. look?" and "How will the hockey Bumbacco, the league's leadingreturn to South Bend in August: football coach at West LibertySouth Bend has a tourist season team make out?" They are this scorer, "Hawk," Ian Williams, Ric "How was your summer?" 
way because one to Schafer, Steve Curry, Bill Nyrop, State college in West Virginia. His
no seemsIn order to answer this question, which Livingston will never have. 

wrestling squads have won orIt lasts from September to May. believe that there is another sport and Mark Kronholm all returning. 
you have to consider the en­finished second in the Westat Notre Dame. This year, The recruits are huge enough that vironment, your hometown, which The people have a name for the Virginia Conference all four years. 
tourists who visit South Bend. however, could end all those no one is going to push the Irishyou return to each May. This He has had 16 conference cham­
problems. around.

writer's hometown is Livingstm;t, They call them "Domers," or pions and twice a West LibertyNew Jersey. The question arises simply Notre Dame students. Digger Phelps told a huge throng Lest your parents be uneasy, tell wrestler was named most valuable 
often, "Where is Livingston, New of students last March that "we've them everything is all right out on
South Bend's merchants do a in the conference. Last year's
Jersey?" The question which only just begun." If someone, the Ara-turf as the Fighting Irish
thriving business during this team came in 17th at the NAIA
should arise "What unaccustomed to Phelps and Notre another quest for mythical
is, is that
tourist season. Have you ever Championships.
New Jersey'?" Dame, were to pass at that thing called a national title. Of
heard of a police raid at Nickie's moment, he would have course, there are eleven games
during July? Come to think of it, I As defensive backfield coach his 
thought doing which make a season, but the
raid teams ranked in the top 10 of the 
season will rest on the Irish­NAIA in overall defense three 


Southern California encounter 
straight years. Those teams 
scheduled for here on October 27th. 
participated in two consecutive It won't be easy. national playoff games. You see, the Trojans have an 
Being hired as a head coach at
Irishman for a coach. In fact, 
Notre Dame is a boyhood dream
1966, his team has not lost to 
come true," Pechek admits.·
Dame. (There have been 
"Wrestling here and then assisting 
People think this man is 
while in graduate school were
He said, "I will never 
thrilling experiences, but to be
otre Dame again." 
able to take the head position is
man will need a 
most exciting as well as
keep his players 
challenging." 

Pechek takes over a Notre Dame team that was 6-11 last season. 
New South Dining Hall 
features scramble areas 
by Jerry Lutkus Editor-in-Chief 
A newly-renovated and com­
pletely air-conditioned South 
Dining Hall opened to stud~nts as 
they returned to compus over the 
Labor Day weekend. The 
renovation, drawn up by Ellerbe 
Architects, is in its final stages as 
workers complete the finishing 
touches. 
The new design completely 
alters the flow of traffic within the 
dining hall. All students are to 
enter the hall by the front doors. 
Directly in front of them as they 
enter are the new doors which lead 
into the pay cafeteria, now named 
,the "Oak Room." I Students then veer off to either 
the left or right, where a wrought­
iron fence will guide them to the 
location of the "checkers." These 
dining hall employees will be 
sitting approximately in the area 
where the old doors to the pay 
cafeteria were located. 
The flow of traffic will lead the 
students down a hallway, which 
used to be the side section·s of the 
pay cafeteria, into the serving area 
in which the old kitchen used to be 
located. 
As the students walk into the 
serving area, in the center of the 
room will be a cart containing 
trays, napkins and silverware. 
Directly in front of that is a stretch 
of serving counters containing six 
areas where students can pick up 
the hot entrees. On either side of 
the serving or scramble room are 
counters which hold the salads, 
fruit, doughnuts and other similar 
As the students exit the serving room, they are confronted with a huge square area which holds the refreshments. In front of them will be the carbonated items, on the two sides of the square to their left or right are the milk dispensers and on the far side of the square are the dispensers for coffee and tea. All of the dispensers are serviced by dining hall employees from within the block. 
The eating areas are much expanded with seating capacity of 904 in each side of the dining hall, yet the tables are spread out to all~viatethe crowding problem in the hall. Also, along the side walls of each hall, the four-seat tables taken from the pay cafeteria offer the student the choice of eating in 
large or small groups. 
According to Bro. Kiernan Ryan, 
assistant vice president for 
business, the conveyor belt system 
for disposal of trays after eating is 
one of the crucial factors in the 
efficient operation of the new 
system. 
Students will no longer have to 
bus trays to the mobile stands in 
the halls. Now, a conveyor belt 
system, running along the wall on 
the kitchen side of each dining 
area, will bring the dirty dishes 
into the washing area. 
Ryan and Edmund T. Price, 
director of food services, urged all 
students who use the facility to bus 
their trays to the belt. If all 
students cooperate, they said, the 
system will be extremely efficient. 
They also requested that students 
who read The Observer during 
their lunch hour, deposit the paper 
in disposal containers after they 
read it instead of leaving the paper 
on their trays. 
Once finished, the students can 
exit the cafeteria by the side doors 
The Scholastic faces budget cut 
by Paul Waller and Paul Szewczyk 
Cuts in the Notre Dame budget have hit the University's bi-weekly magazine, The Scholastic, with an approximate thirty per cent cut in its budget for the 1973-'74 school year. 
SMC govt board 
(continued from page 13) own rules. The situation is unique in each dorm, and sowe're trying to work out judicial reviewing in the halls, rather than in student government, she continued. Three nominations for the ex­pired term of student represen­tative on the Board of Regents, previously held by former SBP Sue Welte are also up before the executive Board of Governance. Seeking the position are McKiernan, Ann Smith, and Mary Ellen Stumpf, Senior class president. 
The Scholastic, the nation's oldest college magazine, financed completely by the Student Ac­tivities Fund, will suffer an overall budget cut of $14,600, including a $13,000 cut in printing costs. 
"I don't know who is responsible for the cuts," stated Kerry McNamara, editor of The Scholastic, but he assumed that it is due to the overall increase in prices everywhere. 
McNamara said that at first there was talk about a cut-back in the number of issues printed. However, the staff soon decided against that proposal, wishing rather to reduce the costs of printing. This could be done by cutting down the number of copies printed each issue and changing the magazine to a more standard size, according to McNamara. 
Despite any cutbacks however, the editors reported that there is no chance of the magazine's folding. "This will just make us more determined," stated McNamara. 
All clubs interested in participating in 
Activities Night 
on Monday, Sept 10 must contact Student Activities Office (7308) Mark Nishan (1025 or Mike Becker before Saturda 
or the front doors, both which used to serve the students as entrances. Ryan emphasized that there are "two tremendous pluses" to the new system. "It has increased the seating by 480 in the dining hall and it took· all the serving lines out of the dining room," he said. 
According to Ryan, the kitchen area in the dining hall was "completely gutted" and all new highly-automated equipment wa~ installed. All the commissary items, including the butcher's stop and bakery, have been moved completely to the North Dining Hall. ­
The two men asked for patience on the students part while a traffic pattern is worked out through use of the new facilities. "We need your (the students) cooperation and patience to allow for the necessary changes in traffic patterns and for you (the students) to become accustomed to the new feature new "scramble scramble system of food service," areas" and conveyor belt they said. The entire renovation 
systems. was accomplished this summer with work being done under the 
ALL OF LAST YEAR'S auspices of Black Construction Co. 
TYPISTS, COMPUGRAPHIC Mechanical work was done by 
OPERATORS, AND NIGHT Slutzky-Peltz of South Bend and 
CONTROLLERS WHO WISH Morris Electric handled the wiring 
TO WORK AGAIN THIS and lighting. 
YEAR, PLEASE CONTACT No cost estimate was available 
HOWARD AT 1175 AS SOON for the renovation. 
AS POSSIBLE! 
AUDITIONS 
for Mixed Choral Ensembles at Notre Dame 

university chorus chapel choir polyphonic choir 
Wed., Thur., Fri. 1-4 p.m. 
Sign-up outside Room 247 


.. J 

NOW SHOWING 
"DAZZLING" 
-LIFE 

PARAMOLNT PICTLRES I'"'"'"'' 
4RIIf:fll~lt 
Th• 
FRANco 
ZEFFIRELLI 
Produrlion of 
ROMEO 
~JULIET 
,For times and directions, call 288
Men--Watch for Glee Club auditions 
'8488 

WE'RE ALL THINGS 
u,ivertl#f 
TO All~MEN 
Regardless of your taste or budget, 
we have the apparel and accessories 
that suit you ... jeans, shirts, jackets, 
sweaters, suits, sportcoats, outer­
coats, shoes, ties, belts ... everything 
the university man could want... and 
all at competitive prices! Stop in 
and look over our brand new 
selections for this school year. 
We've got it all together, on campus, 
for you. 
YOUR STORE 
in style, price, 







