---------~---------·------­
-----------------------------~­
On The Inside 
Cox fired illegally ... pg. 6 
Shuttle bus losing money ... pg. 2 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VIII, No. 48 
Thursday, November 15, 1973 
Macheca speaks on discipline 
by Jim Donathen Staff Reporter 
"We have a concern for the total quality of life at Notre Dame "said Dean of Students John Macheca last night in Dill~n Hall. He explained that the purpose of this job "is to find out how discipline functions within education." 
Re-examines goals 
Since July, Macheca has been reexamining_ the relationship of discipline to the overall educational goals of Notre Dame. Thus far, he has claimed two general conclusions: 1) discipline can function in the individual's life as part of the educational experience and 2) Notre Dame should develop a rehabilitative model for rule infractions so that students benefit from their mistakes. 
"If you deal with individual problems, you need lots of resources and alternatives. There are few rehabilitative alternatives in the old student manual," the Dean said. 
On drugs and alcohol. 
One area he is reexamining is the usage of drugs and alcohol at Notre Dame. "We definitely feel that efforts should be made at drug and alcohol education and rehabilition." The dean's office has been spending time with students who are interested in initiating such programs. If drug and alcohol programs are not directly related to the dean's office, he said that students will be less apprehensive to take advantage of them. 
Macheca also emphasized the complete con­fidentiality of the campus psychological services. "I have no privy to what goes on in psychological services unless the student signs a release." 
One student asked if the dean considers abuse of drugs and alcohol to include the occasional smoking of marijuana or the occasional overindulgence of alcohol. 

··u concerns me that students find it necessary to use artificial means to deal with their lives." replied Macheca. "Life styles developed in college are often carried forward into later adult life." 
Shows social concern 
Another area of prime interest to the dean is the lack of social facilities. "We recognize the correlation between student behavior and the environment. We are concerned with the quality of the social en­
vironment." According to Dean Macheca, the environment ~t 
Notre Dame isn't balanced. "All you have to do 1s 
compare the number of handball courts, soccer fields, 
etc. to the number of social facilities. Notre Dame has 
made a commitment to co-education. You just don't go 
out and play handball with women." 
Justifies parietals 
In justifying parietals, Mecheca contended that the envionment of the home provides places for interaction such as dens and living rooms. He explained that in contrast almost every room on campus is a bedroom. It must also be decided, he continued, if parietal s are more a question of human sexuality or a question of order within the hall. 
Several students asked Macheca to explain the difference between rehabilitation and punishment. When asked, "How is expulsion from the university or loss of football and basketball tickets rehabilitative?" Macheca said that he saw the latter as part of the growth experience. 
He contended that losing a privilege has a rehabilitative effect. 
On expulsion Macheca said : "Certain things are so serious that they pre-empt the right of the individual to be rehabilitated within the community." 
Macheca also fielded several questions which dealt with the University's concept of in loco parentus. In one student's words, "It's ruining the community." 
The dean responded in saying that the function of student affairs is based on a Christian attitude of caring. Since students are reluctant to openly confront one another, he added, the university has the responsibility to take a position of confrontation. In so doing, Macheca states his hope that problems will be discovered and dealt with before they become serious. 
Nixon 'eager' to release story 
Ralph Nader and three members 
nor become "a despository of non­
traordinary impropriety was in would on1ya mven ac~cation fromWASHINGTON (UPI) of Congress that Cox had been subpoenaed matter." 
clear violation of an existing getting the real job done," he said. 
President Nixon reported to "illeglally discharged" by Acting He added: "If the President Justice Department regulation The Senate Watergate Com­Congressional Republicans Attorney General Robert H. Bork. thinks it advisable to waive any having the force of law and was mittee, meanwhile, continued itsWednesday that he is seeking But Gesell took no action to 
privilege and make tapes or other 
therefore illegal," Gesell said. probe into financing of the 1?'72
ways to release his taped reinstate Cox because Cox did not material public, he of course is He said further that Bork's presidential race by hearmgWatergate information to the ask for his job back and another free to do so at any time. Should he action less than three week's later testimony from officials of com­public and is also willing to special prosecutor, Leon Jaworski, 
want to provide the grand jury 
in reinstating the office was panies that have admitted makingmeet with leaders of the Senate has been named. 
with materials that do not relate to 
"simply a ruse to permit the illegal campaign donations.
Watergate Committee. Sen. Sam J. Ervin, D.-N.C., the present hearing or materials discharge of Mr. Cox... and must be All have testified their moneyIn a give and take morning chairman of the Senate Watergate that have not been subpoenaed, he held arbitrary and unreasonable, went into Nixon coffers-but Gulfsession with 75 GOP House committee, turned down a 
should do so through the grand 
and must be held to have been said it also chipped in $10,000 to themembers, Nixon said he was reported offer from Nixon to meet jury's counsel, the special without force or effect." presidential campaign of Senwilling to meet with the with him and the committee vice prosecutor, and not through the But Gesell said the court "must Henry M. Jackson, D.-Wash., andbipartisan leadership of the chairman, Howard H. Baker Jr.. court," remain neutral" in the case and so $15,000 to that of Rep. Wilbur 0.
Watergate Committee, but the R.-Tenn. "I'm not going to the At his Oct. 26 news conference, only Congress, through legislation, Mills, D.-Ark., in addition toidea was promptly turned down White House without the enure Nixon said it would "not be can protect the special prosecutor $100,000 to Nixon's.
by its chairman, Sen. Sam J. committee," Ervin said. 
proper" top make his 'Watergate 
from interference by the The committee will be in recessErvin Jr., D-N.C., who said Officials of Ashland and Gulf Oil tapes public since a federal ap­Executive Branch. next weekend and plans to wrap upsuch a meeting should include companies told the Ervin Com­peals court had not ordered that to Cox, from his summer home in its public hearings--which beganall seven panel members. 
mittee how they had bowed to be done and "Judge Sirica, of Maine, said the only important May 17-by kDec. 7 to allow time toSeveral Republican pressures from Nixon campaign course, would not do anything that thing was that investigations and finish its final Teport by a Senate­congressmen, after meeting with officials and illegally contributed would be in contravention" of that prosecutions go on--whether by set deadline of Feb. 28.
Nixon in the morning, said he is $100,000 each from corporate funds order. 
Committee staff said it waseager to make his story public and to Nixon's re-election effort. Both Sirica is holding hearings on Jaworski or someone else named "possible" that Nixon's closewould release information from his said former Commerce Secretary White House claims that two under new legislation in the future. 
friend, Florida banker C. G.
private tapes and papers if Sirica Maurice H. Stans, later Nixon subpoenaed presidential con­"For me to make any legal clain1s "Bebe" Rebozo might be called toapproved. campaign finance chief, had versations were never recorded under J1;1dge Gesell's de-cision testify after Thanksgiving.
Sirica, chief judge of the U.S. solicited the gifts. and on whether the remainingDistrict Court here who has been In his three-page "memoran­seven subpoenaed tapes have been handling the case, filed a dum" in Nixon's secret tapes, tampered with. JFK aid discusses "memorandum" saying Nixon Sirica rejected Nixon's pledge In his ruling on the Cox case,
need not seek his approval before made Monday to surrender to the Gesell said Bork had no authoritysubmitting any evidence to the court a number of other tapes and to fire Cox or to abolish the special 
possible conspiracy
grand jury or the public if he documents not required under an prosecutor's office-both o of which chooses. existing subpoena. Bork did on Nixon's orders. 
U.S. District Judge Gerhard A. Siricia said he "will not receive "The firing of Archibald Cox in Gesell ruled in a suit brought by extraneous material of testimony" the absence of a finding of ex­

•.• see page 3 

Thursday, Novem~er 15, 1973
1. the observer 


warld briefs 
Washington UPI -For the second consecutive day the Senate 
Wednesday rushed major energy legislation to President Nixon, 
then prepared to vote him far-reaching emergency powers 
before week's end. 
The Senate ap~roved 80 to 3 and sent to the White House 
legislation imposmg mandatory allocatigns of crude oil and 
refined petroleum products, including gasoline. 
The action came one day after Congress gave its final ap­
proval to construction of a pipline to tap the oil rich fields of 
Alaska's north slope. 
Belfast, Northern Ireland, UPI -Gunmen firing at a British army post in Belfast killed a Roman Catholic man on his way home Wednesday then hours later killed a young girl on a Londonderry street corner with a volley of shots intended for a passing army patrol. 
London UPI -Princess Anne married the man of her heart Wednesday, Mark Phillips, a commone~ and an army captain, in a scene of such splendor and happmess that her mother, Queen Elizabeth, cast aside years of iron self-control and wept for the first time in public. 

Shuttle bus losing money 
by Howard Wood Staff Reporter 
The Student GoverniMnt off­campus shuttle bus is losing $50 per day, Student Body President Dennis Etienne revealed. 
The fare is 10 cents and the bus costs $56 per day to operate. H the student government wants to break even, 560 students would have to ride the bus every day. After the first week of operation, a maximum of 75 students have ridden the bus on any one day. 
Etienne expressed disap­pointment over the small turnout. "There's nothing to be overjoyed about when you're losing $50 a day," he said. 
Mike Geisinger, Student body vice president, commented, "After 
by David Lee Staff Reporter 
The Notre Dame swim team is planning to hold its second annual swimming marathon this Sunday evening, Nov. 18th, at 7:00, in Rockne Memorial pool. 

According to Drew Wallach, coordinator of the project, the swimming marathon will help the swim team to raise money for training over the Christmas holidays. Swimmers will be contacting people, hoping they will contribute a penny, nickel or dime for each length they swim. On Sunday evening, the team will meet at Rockne, and each swimmer will swim non-stop as far 

Hans Haus 

one week I am not ready to con­waiting for the cold weather to use demn it. This isjust an experiment the bus "because of the poor and the student government turnout, it may not last until then." 
2803 South Michigan Street-Phone 291·5522 money is budgeted for the bus." The nice weather and the in­
German FoQd Our Specialty

Although the funds for the bus convenience of the bus compared 
Created with Old World Atmosphere. Specializing have been appropriated for the to a car are the possible reasons in German and American Foods. 
whole school year, second for the small number of students 
• So11th Bend's Finest Banquet Rooms

semester operation may be ter­riding the bus, according to 
The Alpine & Bavarian Roomsminated for lack of funds. "If the Etienne. Open 10:30 a.m. to 10:30 P.m.-Closed Sundays and Holidays bus continues to lose the same There has only been one reported 
amount of money each day, there 

complaint on the bus routes,said 1~;;~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;-;;iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~.
will only be enough funds to keep it Etienne. The first morning going until Christmas," stated route leaves from the corner of 
~ 
Etienne. Michigan Ave. and Navarre at 7:35 
Geisinger pointed out the and arrives at campus at 7:55. possibility of terminating the off­Reportedly, a student walked from campus bus unless 150 students are the same corner to campus in less riding it a day before time than the bus. Etienne added Thanksgiving. Etienne added that that anew route is being in­it would be too expensive for vestigates. student government to provide Student Government is sear­transportation for such a small ching for improvements to benefit number of students. the off-campus students. 
Etienne warned against students Currently, the last bus leaves 
campus at 5:35 p.m. Etienne 
would like to have the bus leave after six o'clock because many off campus students eat on campus. Etienne added that a reevaluation of the bus routes will 
ND swim team holds 
marathon this Sunday 
be discussed during Thanksgiving as ~e can, with a 200 lap vacation. maximum. Later, the swimmers will re-contact their sponsors and 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except 

inform them of the outcome and 
vacations by the students of the

the amount of their pledged con­
University of Notre Dame and St.

tributions. 
Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S8 per semester ($14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class 
Wallach also stated that the 

swim team has decided to con­
postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind.

tribute a portion of the donations 
46556. 



an campus taday 
4 p.m.--seminar, "energy loss spectra," conference room, radiation research bldg. 
4:15 p.m.--lecture, "activity metabolism in lower vertebrates," dr. albert bennett univ. of calif. at berkeley, aud. galvin life science 
7 p.m.--lecture, "spanish-american novel," stapleton lounge, lemans hall 
7:30 p.m.--charismatic renewal, an introduction, butler bldg. next to holy cross hall, nd 
8: 15 p.m.--recital, beverly beer, soprano and suzanne kellow, alto, little theater, moreau hall 
8:30 p.m.--meeting, charismatic renewal, holy cross hall 
CULTURAL ARTS COMMISSD\1 resents 


Bruce lee 
every limb of his body is a lethal weapon in 
Fists 


of Fury 
Thursday and Friday November 15th and 16th, 8&10 pm in the Engineering Auditorium. 
++Admission -$1.00++ 

they receive to the International Swimming Hall of Fame in Fr. Lauderdale and to the Logan School for Retarded Children here 
It all begins at 8 -don't be late! 
in South Bend, where many swimmers have been working as volunteers. 
In addition to the swimming 
TONIGHTmarathon, the swim team also is raising money by selling peanuts, programs, and hotdogs at N.D. 
FREE • 56 oz. Falstaff buckets to be given away ­
home football games. 
with a special ~n the Fill-up

SEE JOHN VOLL AT GATES CHEVROLET FOR 
FREE • Help us kick-off the hockey season! N.D. hockey
TRANSPORT ION SPECIALS 
TELL HIM HOW MUC 
YOU CAN 
SPEND·· 
333 Western Avenue South Bend, Ind. 4660 l 
shirts, blankets, lighters, library's kitchen sink, 
and a lot of other stuff will be raffled off free. 
AND 0 HE'LL DO ~ THE REST!! 
Thank you John Voll Notre Dame '73 Student Representative 
288-1421 


• . i , ' f ~ •• • If: t", • I If' I. f' • • 
I" ... # ..... ,. •• 
... • ••' r •' '.· • J 
~ } ~ ~ ( " I I ' •.) -'
r,. • • 1 . ' 

Thursday, November 15, 1973 the'observer 
3 

JFK aide discusses Dallas trip 
by Valerie Zurblis Staff Reporter 
Martin Underwood was one of President Kennedy's advance men on his fatal Dallas trip. Un­derwood set up the Houston trip and was in Dallas at the time of the assassination. A close friend of John Kennedy and his family, Martin Underwood worked as chief advance man for President Johnson and now works for Marvin Mandel, governor of Maryland. 
President John F. Kennedy was fatally wounded in a Dallas Rl~rcadeon November 22, 1963. 
Kennedy had come to Texas because it was a crucial state in 1964 in relation to getting votes. Kennedy won Texas only by about 46,000 votes in 1960. Texas was actually the start of his re-election campaign. 
Underwood was an advance man 
for the Texas trip. "An ad­
vanceman goes into town and keep 
in con:-:tant contact with the White 
House during the President's stay," 
said Underwood. Kenny O'Donnell 
was Kennedy's chief advanceman. 
My city was Houston, which was 
the stop the night before Dallas. 
There were five Kennedy advance 
men, one in each city. I was not in 
charge of Dallas at all, I was just 
helping out." 
Underwood rode in the 
Presidential motorcade through 
downtown Dallas on November 22. 
"Usually in a motorcade, 
especially n those days, we always 
had a lead car for the FBI and a 
couple of Secret Service men and 
advance men like myself. 
Underwood said the usual 
procedure was to have the security car in front and then the photographers car with the President's car next with security cars on either side. 
The President's wife would also be in this car and, of course, th e governor of the state and his wife. 
The Vice President and his wife would follow and possibly the mayor of the town, then the senators and congressmen and so on. There always was a lead car of secret service men and they also drove the cars. 
Underwood commented that the President did not ride in his protective car, but in a con­vertible. "Unfortunately, if we would have had the President's car down there, we wouldn't have been riding him around in a convertible, but this was the way Kennedy wanted to do it," Underwood said. 
"It was the first trip Jackie had made in two and a half years," he. continued. "Everybody wanted to see her. We used to kid Kennedy. He'd used to say 'How many do we have today in Houston' and I'd say, '180,000 to see you and 185,000 to see Jackie:"' 
Underwood did not see the 
assassination nor hear the shots 
being fired. He was several blocks 
ahead of the president's car. He 
heard of the shooting over the car 
radio. 
The Warren Commission was set 
up after the assassination to 
determine what actually happened 
the day Kennedy was shot. It came 
to the conclusion that one lone 
assassin, Lee Harvey Oswald, did 
thp shooting. 
After Oswald had been ap­prehended and on being tran­sferred from jails, a man named 


St. Mary's students 
Jack Ruby came out of the crowds around Oswald and shot him. 
Underwood stressed that if "crazy Ruby" had not killed Oswald; there would have been some· answers today on the assassin. 
Unlike the Warren Commission Underwood thinks Oswald pms other person(s) did it, but he doesn't know whether it was a conspiracy or not. 
Oswald had been to Russia and was on the Communist payroll, added Underwood. 
He believes that the country could not have accepted a con­spiracy theory. 
"The country was so down, that any hint at that time of conspiracy would have started a revolution. So sometimes you have to have a Warren Commission come along." 
Underwood admitted that he did completely agree with the Warren Commission. "I just don't think that anyone can sit up there with a single barrel and shoot that quick. I juiit know a few things that have happened since then that I can't discuss. But I do know the FBI went down there with some sharpshooters and ran the route." 
"I don't feel that Oswald was the 
only one," Underwood continued. 
"And I don't go as far as to say that 
there's a conspiracy. There might 
have been, but when you talk of 
conspiracy you have to be pretty 
doggone careful what report 
you're talking about." 
Underwood felt that the Dallas 
police were more worried about 
the television camera than they 
were Oswald. He tought more of 
an effort to protect Oswald was for 
the country's good. "They let 
exceed 

goal in United Way Drive 
"We are very proud of the Saint Mary's College students in their efforts to assist in the United Way Fund Drive," stated Elroy E. Erie, Saint Mary's director of sustaining programs, and this year's chairman of the United Way campaign at the College. 
In an unprecedented effort, the 
"Godspell"
cast 
cancelled 
The cast of the musical production "Godspell" was forced to cancel an agreement to sing at a mass at Sacred Heart Church this Thursday. 
"The manager o the company had agreed to bring the cast to the church" Fr. Tom Stella explained, "but when th woman who arranged to have the troup come to South Bend learned of this plan she refused to permit it, saying it was a breech of contract." 
Other than an announcement at the 12+15 mass on Sunday, no formal publicity had been done to promote the event. It is felt, however, that many students and towns people have heard about it by word of mouth. 
J & J Grill 
:I: 
1 oa'l"' 24 h,.., 
w 
~

u 
....... 

NO Students
~ 
z 

Welcome.
z 
~ 

.... 
..,9 
~
,.., 
~,. oa-\"' n 
:I:

1 
J & J Grill 
student body raised $1,161.13 by holding an auction and dance on United Way Day, October 31, 1973. All proceeds from the events went to the United Way Fund. 
Items for the auction, sponsored by the student government, were donated by Saint Mary's College. faculty, staff, and administration, as well as local merchants. Several faculty members exem­plified the United Way spirit by their donation of a homemade cheesecake, room cleaning ser­vices, and a candlelight dinner for two. 
The prescribed goal for the College this year was $5,163.00. Combined donations from faculty, staff, administration, and the students reached $5,762.81, 111.6 

per cent of the ongmal goal. This money will now go to support the more than 30 member-agencies of the United Way. Several of these organizations are served by the College through volunteer work of faculty, staff and administration members, as well as serve Saint Mary's community by providing internships and practical work experience for the students. 
Brian Regan, director of development at Notre Dame, and this year's chairman of the education division of the United Way Fun Drive, expressed great pleasure over the student par­ticipation. He said, "We are all most grateful for their efforts, and hope this will become a United Way tradition at Saint Mary's." 

Turk 
International Galleries 
Presents 
A collection of Chincese, Tibetan, central Asian 
and traditional Japanese designs interpreted 
through the medium of woodblock printing. 
Imported direct from Swayambhu -Nath, Nepal. 
ALL LIMITED EDITION PRINTS PRICED UNDER $1 0. 
Place:  Lafortune Student Center  
Second Floor  
Time:  9am-5 pm  
Date:  Nov. 15 thru 16  

Sponsored by Student Union Cultural Arts Commission 
Ruby come in and shoot him," said Underwood. 
Underwood explained, "Because of my association with the secret service, FBI, and CIA, which you automatically become close to when you're in the position I was in, there's a lot of things that the · news never made public and I don't know if they ever will be, and I just can't discuss them." 
Being a close, personal friend of the Kennedys, Underwood managed to get one of the last rocking chairs Kennedy ever sat in. He explained that there are two Kennedy rockers, one in a Boston museum and the one he owns. 
Juniors interested in teaching Freshman Colloquium next fall. Informational meeting 
Monday (Nov. 19), 


:·. i@'''biifi*''''¥''1 ....: 
: WITH COUPON : 
: FULL EII&IIIE TUllE-UP : 
i(!j;lfi2Q951
~~tl I 
I l .-' I
. .
. . 
1 ANY 6 CYL. U.S. AUTO : : ADD $4 FOR 8 CYL. CARS. • I AIR COND. CARS 52 MORE.: 
:INCLUDES PLUGS, POINTS,, 
: CONDENSER, CHECK : 
: ~~~~~ET~~~B~~~;~R • ::::~·-················:'(
. 
VALUABLE COUPON 
WITH COUPON 

FROIITEIIOa
ALI&IIIEIT  r  
MOST AMERICAN CARS  - .  

'8'5 
PARTS EXTRA 

. 
IF NEEDED 
~-·····················
• • @iil§iUI+&.iitpsye· • t 
WITH COUPON : 
lUKE RELIIII& :
. 
EXCEPT DISC : 

I 
BRAKES AND : 
FOREIGN CARS:
.
.



$2995 l 
.
.
. 
INCLUDES FULL : INSPECTION • t FLUID AND CLEAN. :

,.. ...
r•• ••,
VII. I Ullfll E COUPON 





::0"'1#' 
$444 
PLUS IISTILUTIOI 
Snow Recaps 
$ 2 2 9 5 560-15 
(plus F.E.T.) 
Premium 4 Ply Nylon 

Snow Tires 
F78-14 Blackwalls start as low as 
$1695 
(plus F.E.T.) 


20% OFF 
on all tail pipes, exhaust pipes, and mufflers. 
Discount Tire Service 
50595 U.S. 31 North 
272-1023 
OPEN DAILY TIL 6 SATURDAY TIL 4 

The rocking chair Underwood owns Wl!S flown to Houston by Air Force 1.-'Too. President had an hour conference ilWl.is. )lotel room that night before he left f6r Dallas and that was the last rocking'elw!r he ever sat in. "It even has the-------­brace marks from his back brace," added Underwood. 
He received another Kennedy memento the night before the assassination when JFK gave Underwood what turned out to be one of the last PT 109 tie clasps that the President wore. "He handed it to me at 11:00 that night as he got off the plane in Houston the day before the assassination." 

_j 

the observer Thursday, November 15, 1973 
P.O. 
Goal Post Scandal 
Editor: 
Never in the history of Jour­nalism has such an innuendo been attached to the immaculate as when The Observer of November first slanderously implied the residents of Saint Edward's Hall are engaging in the unholiest sin of Simony. Refering explicity to the article in which Father Hesburgh assumes we are engaging in the profiteering of the goalpost, we emphatically deny any profligacy ; and, in fact, we are incensed that one could believe thatNotreDame men would stoop to the gutter in regard to such a sacred object. Out dignity has been impugned. It is inconceivable to the residents of the first annex that such an object as the hallowed post of scoring with the semblence of a crucifatory object and steeped in such infathomable tradition could ever be used for an economic enterprise. We most vociferously refute the sin of Simony placed upon us. 
The unalterable facts are as follows: 
1. 
Noting the more awesome than usual brilliance of the Golden Dome, a few members of Saint Edward's Hall found the goalpost lying unadorned on the steps of the Administration Building. 

2. 
Realizing that the post was not receiving the proper attention such an object deserves, we proceeded to partition it so that it could be placed safely in the hands of Notre Dame men for endless perpetuity. 


-3. WE DID NOT THEN OR DO NOT NOW HAVE ANY IN­TENTIONS OF SELLING THE GOAL POST! 
4. In fact, until the supply was ~usted, we unselfishly gave a ·Jillle to anyone who approached 
us. 

5. 
We have no control over the actions of those to whome we have given pieces and most heartily implore them not to derogate our integrity by even thinking of selling their pieces. 

6. 
We thank Father Hesburgh for alllowing us to shelter the post and forgive him for mistakenly thinking that we would engage in Simony. 


In closing, constituents of the first annex of Sain Edward's Hall remain indisputably innocent and our motives forever remain pure. 
Devotedly your in Notre Dame, David G. Portman Stephen J. Hoesterey and the men of First Annex 
Scholarly Debate 

Dear Editor: Having been absent from campus for a few days on Church business, only now have I had an opportunity see Mr. Jim Napier's letter regarding impeachment in the November lst issue of the Observer. After reading it, I suspect that Mr. Napier's viewpoint and my own are not as far apart as they might seem. We agree that the House of Representatives should examine the evidence available in a deliberate fashion, and that if sufficient warrant for im­peachment is discovered the House should proceed to impeach. Mr. Napier and I differ regarding the sufficiency of evidence at hand, and we disagree whether im­peachment or the failure to im­
peach would do more damage 'to the country. These issues are debatable, and a University is the place to debate them. 
But reading Mark Reynolds' letter in the same issue, and the three letters published in today's Observer (Noverber 6th), I find myself wondering whether the atmosphere is conducive to debate. 
Mr. Reynolds' letter, like a number printed earlier, eschews debate in preference for a personal attack on Fr. Toohey's integrity. The first letter in today's paper attacks Mr. Reynolds as a "moron", the second slashes at the intellectual and moral honesty of some faculty members (and Fr. Toohey, again) who chose to dissent from an article published by Dr. Rice (sorry I missed that go-around), and the third chides Fr. Hesburgh for inconsistency. Yesterday, at the bookstore, I picket up an unsigned broadwide condemning this University for its loss of faith, and today I received a long, unsigned tirade in the mail telling me that the Virgin Mary is very angry with all of "Her" priests. Coming in a bunch, these things bother me, and make me wonder how ready we are to be a University. 
The essence of a University is 
scholarly debate. Having taught at 
Cohunbia during the troubles of 
the past six or seven years, I am 
very conscious how fragile, 
delicate, and precious rational 
discourse can be. It presupposes 
hard and careful work, a con­
sciousness of the limitations of 
reason, an openness to divergent 
ideas, patience, and a great deal of 
courtesy. Careless rhetoric and 
personal vindictiveness, combines 
with the illusion that one know 
everything, preclude debate and 
~-~----~-------------­
engender fanaticisms. Surely a our president and our police to the University which participates in lowest form of s-t they can dig up. the traditiun of the Western Somewhere, we must find a new Church, which esteems so highly hero, a savior. We are at the type the proper autonomy of reason, .gf place, Notre Dame, where that can do without such excesses. If ~or can come from. Notre Notre Dame is to be Catholic and to Dame, a place where the old be a University, her people fashioned virtures of individual together must work to keep the guts and group unity are still found healthy divergence of ideas from embodied in a spirit that is un­becoming ideological con­paralleled across the nation. frontations of personal enmities. Thank God for Notre Dame. 
There is, as theWesternFathers Maybe now you can understand insist, no contradiction between the reason for my disgust of the the proper use of reason and the state of the union, 1973. God help Christian faith. But each has the nation that I love so dearly. 
spheres proper to it. Autonomous Brian C. Lopina

reason, used judiciously, even­tually leads one to a confrontation with the mysterious, dark places in Forget which faith may abide, places beyond the reach of reason. If we 01' Georgeanticipate the pilgrimage into faith 
Editor: 
by circumventing or short­Your editorial of November 12th 

circuiting the struggle to cope with 

concerning impeachment is 
reality in a rational way -if we typical of the majority of opinions 

subvert reason by confusing that that have appeared in your paper. 

which is known with that which is 

Although I am personally un­believed, and by suffocating our decided on the question of im­struggle to understand under-the peachment, arguments such as the assertion of undigested and one you presented are, in mypremature absolutes -we may estimation self-defeating. I do not faith, the
never encounter or see what significance McGovern's 
saving Lord Who waits for us in the opinions have on this issue, nor do I heart of mystery, beyond understand your recommendaton knowledge. 

to do what "McGovern told you
In all of the discussions that last night." If you remember arise, let us give reason a better 

correctly, McGovern had his op­chance. We can debate anything, portunity to depose King Richard in love and in Christian fellowship, one year ago, when the nation was 
if we proceed with humor, anxious for a change. But theyrestraint, and courtesy. 

rejected 01' George when they discovered how muddled hisCordially 
thinking was as typified by hisBob Kerby campaign promises and his handling of the Vice-Presidential nominations. I think there is little
Of Course? sense in following the thinking of a man who cannot think properly for himself. 
Sirs: Dominic Bianco

As usual, you have done a marvelous job of printing something without bothering to 

Worth Defending
investigate the facts. 

Putting in a "Quote Sans Comment" is a clever way of I am struck by the simplicity of hiding your lack of knowledge. Mr. Lutkus' view of American 
St. Mary's Dining Hall does not involvement in the world as ex­re-use lettuce, of course, and I am pressed in the column America's surprised that you could not see the Children -Ramblings -on Thur­satire that you too often use. sday, November 8. He seems to be 
JDI Fahey taking the position that The United States should refrain from aiding any nation if such aid may be used in military confrontations of some
A Prayer kind. That outlook denies, it seems to me, that any military action can be defended as both necessary and 
I just finished watching the moral. His position would deny totelevision special on President any country the means (given by Kennedy. I learned one thing the U.S.) to defend itself fromtonight that I never fully realized foreign aggression merely because before. The hopes and spirit of our the use of those means (i.e. guns, .great country were drowned after tanks, etc.) causes the death of

the assassination of John Fit­others.
zgerald Kennedy. They were I am not in favor of anyone's

further lost because of a war we dying unnecessarily, of course . 

. never won or seemed to want to 

But, if we adopt the view he iswin and, now, an act of political 
proposing, it looks as though no 
totoli tarianism that our 

matter what the situation -noPRESIDENT may be involved in. 
matter who has attacked whom 
The results have been: the division and no matter how unjqstified the of our nation, the disenchantment attack -the United States will not 

of our youth and other distressing be able to aid militarily the injured side effects. The disenchantment party because, through that aid,of our youth gives my heart its some of the combatants will lose 

most felt pains. For the future of their lives. 
America is in our youth. A youth 

This, in my opinion, is an odd who find their heros in disciples of way of seeing the world. There are 
violence and hon1osexuality, some causes worth fighting and 

. namely, rock stars Alice Cooper dying for and there are some 
and Edgar Winter. Ayouth who 

causes worth aiding when 
reject the only system proven to be 

necessary. To limit, without the salvation of freedom on earth. 
qualification, all U.S. military aid A youth who delight in reducing 
denies that fact. David N. Kessler 
·trudeau 
the observer 

Night Editor: Albert D'Antonio Asst. Night Editor: Rick Blower Copy Editor: Terry Keeney Layout : Ayn Moriarity Typists: Barb Norcross, Tom Modglin, John Flannigan Compugraphic: Bob Steinmetz Night Controller: Phil Orscheln Sports: Peg Lawlor, Greg Corgan, Vic Dorr Token WASP: Carolina 
THANKS JERRYI 


YOf/ KNO~ If W& Cf)(JtP 6£1 SOH& Of 1ii£5E REFUG&&5 OV#!. 7lJ IVA5HIN6T~ /i/HfR£ THfY {()(//../).. .. W&U.. .. UJBBY ON THeiR OWN 
BafAV-r eu wev 6eT 
AC7lON THtN! 

C0/1~ 70 7HINK Of' IT, BOSS, I KNOW A lOCAl.. Af/SSie 
PI/..OT WHO 0111&5 
Me A FAVOR! 
Thursday, November 15, 1973 the observer 

Professor urges investigation 
Agnew pressured to resign? 
· Agnew did not contest a charge of ministration officials," said qualificatiOns or other con-
John F. Benzhaf III told ~e tax evasion and was given three Banzhaf. siderations, without carefully by Gene Bernhardt Senate Rules Committee hean~g years unsupervised parole and "Can the Senate ... continence and determining whether the vacancy Washington <UPI) on Rep. Gerald R:· Ford s fined $10,000. He also cited "leaks" reward these blantant conflicts of was created illegally," said 
nomination as vice prestdent t_h~re to the press of the Agnew in-interest in which attorneys for one Banzhaf. 
A George Washington University is "the not unreason~ble susptcton vestigation. person against whom a prima facie Other witnesses before the panel law professor Wednesday urged an by millions of Amencans t~at_ the "The evidence of leaks is un-case of criminal conduct exists attacked Ford's voting record on investigation of "very strong conduct of those cnmn:~al deniable, the fairness and im-engineered the conviction of civil rights issues and urged evidence" that Vice President proceedings were strongly m-partiality of Mr. Agnew's deal very another?" asked Banzhaff. rejection of his nomination. Spiro T. Agnew was forced to fluenced by political C?n-·questionable, and the suspicion of "In view of all of these cir-resign by White House siderations and advant~ges whtch blatant partisan political con-cumstances, I respectively suggest maneuvering before the Senate would accrue to Mr. NIXon." siderations wide-spread, par-that it would be irresponsible for acts in confirming an Agnew Banzhaf cited the plea ticularly in view _of other recent this body to confirm Mr. Nixon's Interested in SuccPSSOr. bargaining "deal" under which disclosures involving high ad-nominee, regardless of his Gr.~du:Jte Study in 
BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION i 
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION

Aspects of alcoholism discussed 
HOSPITAL & HEALTH ~ SERVICES ADMINISTRA TlON :;

Dr. Nelson J. Bradley, head of 
"craving, development of family, driver's license, and even nicotine-tobacco, food , and work
psychiatric services and medical See us November 15
tolerances, and withdrawal addictions. He added that the
the courts if necessary."
director of the Alcoholism at ADMINISTRATION BLDG
symptoms." behavior patterns of the work
Contrasting the r~sults of the old 
Rehabilitation Center of Park for information aoout
Approaching alcoholism as a addict are the same as the per­
"detention-~ype" PROGRAMS' "2
Ridge, Illinois, discussed various our two-year Master's
"man-sided disease," Dr. Bradley sonality type believed to be
to 5 per cent recovery record" and 
aspects of alcoholism with South degree programs at
stated that in curing the alcoholic susceptible to coronary heart
the "continuity of care" programs'
Bend physicians Tuesday. the Cornell University
what is needed is "not new skills, diseases.
80 per cent recovery rate, Dr.
In an interview at the St. Joseph 
but continuity of care and social Dr. Bradley's visit to South Bend 
Bradley pointed out the new 
UnMLJU"' I~

Mental Health Center, Dr. Bradley OF
pressure applications." was sponsored by the alcoholic
programs use of industries, unions, 
named alcoholism as the number BUSINESS ANu t'UDLIC
Emphasizing that the alcoholic education program of the South
Hlaf-way houses, and the "base­
one addiction in America, with ADMINISTRATION
is not a criminal, though the courts Bend center for Medical education, 
line of reformed alcoholics" to
10,000 alcoholics in St. Joseph 
may use a "kick-off approach," whose goal . is to provide local
implement the "continuity of
County alone. The authority on Contact your placement
Dr. Bradley explained that "once members of the medical profession 
care" and "social pressure"
alcoholism defined alcoholic ad­offtce for exact t1mes
the alcoholic is accepted as a sick with a greater understanding of
concepts.
diction in the same sense as nar­person programs should keep the alcoholic.
Other forms of addiction iden­
cotic addiction, in that both involve 
pressure on him through his job, tified by Dr. Bradley were 

Blocking interchange 
Widow fights order to move 
By JOHN GONZALES to talk Rita Hill into leaving the desert land west of Lordsburg
LORDSBURG, N.M. (UPI) -eight-by-eight foot wooden which the department con­
An elderly widow fighting an shack she has erected in the demned for $29,669 to make 
order to move from her land to path of the interchange. way for the Interstate highway
make way for a highway Chavez, who talked with Mrs. 10 interchange. She has refused 
interchange on her southwest Hill through the closed door of to pick up the check and has 
New Mexico land refused a the shack, then asked District been living in the shack since 
final plea shouted through her Judge Norman Hodges of Silver August, moving there from her 
locked door by officials of the City to order the sheriff to ranchhouse at the ghost town of 
state Highway Department bring Mrs. Hill into court to be Shakespeare. 
Wednesday. cited for contempt. Mrs. Hill contends that the 
The Department said it was "She wouldn't open the door illterchange is not needed and 
ready for a showdown with the to talk to us," Hidalgo County tnat il wourd-not benefit her. 
71-year-old woman next week in Sheriff Eugene Moore said. She also says the land, which 
court. "She said she had said her piece." she has owned most of her life,
Chief D~partment attorney E. , 
Ja more important to her than
E. Chavez tried unsuccessfully 
Mrs. HHr owns 59 acres of money. 
Attica inmates indicted on kidnapping and murder charg 
WARSAW, N.Y. (UPI) obscene exhibition of state Five former inmates previously power."charged in the 1971 Attica Attorney Donald Jelinek, who 
prison rebellion were accused is helping the men prepare a again Wednesday with kidnap­defense, called the grand jurying and murder in two sealed "the most corrupt in the history
grand jury indictments opened of the nation." 
in State Supreme Court. Four of the men includingThe indictments had been Stroble, acting as their own handed up earlier in the day by legal counsel, declined to enter the special Wyoming County . a plea to charges of three 
grand jury investigating the counts of kidnaping and one Sept. lG-11, 1971, riot that took count of murder each. 43 lives. The others were RogerOne of the defendants, Champen, Frank Smith, Her­
Bernard Stroble, said a murder bert Blyden and Eric Thomp­charge against him was son. All but Thompson were 
"manufactured" by a "foul, present. 

THANKSGIVING BUSES TO CH-ICAGO 
DEPART CIRCLE 1:00pm WED. NOV. 21 ARRIVE O'HARE 2:30 (CH!'CAGO TIME) 
... 

RETURN SUNDAY NOV. 25th ·-.. DEPART CYHARE 8:00pm (CHI~~~?.,!IME} ARRIVE CIRCLE 11:30 (SOUTH B~ TIME) 
SIGN-UPS AT TRAVEL BUREA"b',""'. BADIN HALL. ALL SALES FINAL. 

The five were charged in one indictment with kidnaping fel­low inmate Barry Schwartz and causing his death. Schwartz was found stabbed to death after the prison was retaken. 
Van Heusen puts



it all togetlier 
Van Heusen puts together bold styling, comfortable fit, and bright new ideas in pattern and color ... to bring you a shirt collection that's right in touch with the times. Come by and discover just what Van Heusen has put together for you and for ... 

g & g productions present 

THE ISLEY BROTHERS 
also featuring 

RIOT Sunday November 18 
two shows 7 & 10 p.m. 

Morris Civic Auditorium 
'ckets on sale • Morris Civic Auditorium box office open 11-5 p.m. daily except Sunda 
Thursday, November 15, 1973

the observer 


Judge rules Cox firing illegal 
by ED ROGERS 
.. WASHINGTON ( UPI >-A federal judge ruled Wednesday that Acting Attorney General Robert H. Bork illegally fired special Watergate prosecutor Archibald Cox on President Nixon's orders Oct. 20, but he refused to order Cox reinstated. 
Acting on a suit brought by Ralph Nader and three Democrats in Congress, U.S. District Judge Gerhard A. Gesell based his ruling on former Attorney General Elliott 
L. Richardson's regulation stating that Cox could be dismissed only for "extraordinary improprieties" or by mutual agreement that the Watergate investigation was completed. 
Gesell rejected a Justice Department argument that Bork's action in firing Cox amounted to "an automatic abolition" of the regulations. 'The judge said such regulations have the force of law and cannot be abolished except through full egla procedures. 
But Gesell also noted that Cox, who has since returned to Harvard Law School, had disavowed any interest in returning to the prosecutor's job. 
Without Cox as a party to the suit, Gesell denied a request for an inuunction that would have barred Leon Jaworski, the new special prosecutor, from interfering with Cox' return. Gesell's ruling has no effect on Cox, except to put the stamp of illegality in hhis dismissla. But Nader attorney Alan Morrison said the decision in effect would give Jaworski an added meassure of "job security" by serving notice that Cox' sue-


Recommend prohibition of natural Christmas trees 
The Occupational Safety and Christmas decorations be Health Association Central prohibited in all residences and Committee of the University, at its other interior areas of the meeting on November 8, 1973, University. The Committee unanimously recori1mended that suggests the use of fireproof ar­the use of natural evergreen trees tificial trees and trimmings where and-or branches of same as such Christmans decorations are 
Donations to CARE to be collected before game 
and n1edical programs.

Donations to support CARE will In order to continue it's millionsbe taken before and after the Air of mercy, CARE depends upon the Force game on Thanksgiving Day. 
generosity of those in sympathyVolunteers are needed to take up with their cause.

the collection. 
All those who are remaining for For 27 years CARE has been the game and are willing to help

about the business of helping people in need. CARE supplies CAH,t<; are asked to contact the some 28 million persons with food Office of Campus Ministry (6536)each day. Itis also instrumental in by Tuesday noon.
establishing self-helo. educationaL 
Course schedule books available on Monday 

Course schedule books for the spring semester will be available on Monday, Nobember 19 in the offices of the deans of the respective colleges Richard Sullivan, university registrar, announced yesterday. The Course Evaluation booklets, co-published by the Scholastic and the Ob­server, will be available on Monday, Nobember 26. 
The Course Evaluation books will differ somewhat from last year's version. "We had trouble getting course lists from some departments so this will be a smaller book, 11 explained Joe Runde, editor of the book. 
"There will be between 180 and 200 courses covered, as we also are not covering courses at St. Mary's," he said. 
The Evaluation book committee has run up against a number of difficulties with this edition. "Over all, 11 said Joe, "I'm disappointed at the response." 

Whatever you've heard about us · Believe it ! 
The Windjammer ~mploys four of the area's finest men's hair stylists. We're not afraid to stand on our record, but come and find out for yourself. 




ahe WinJjammer 
HAIR STYLING FOR DISCRIMINATING MEN 
1637 LincolnWay W. . 232-6622 
cessor could not be fired sum­marily. 
Gesell rejected a Justice Department argument that Cox had made the case "moot" when he waived any interest in regaining his job. 
"The discharge of Mr. Cox precipitated a widespread con­cern, if not lack of confidence, in the administration of justice," Gesell said. Sen. Frank E. Moss, D.-Utah, and Reps. BellaS. Abzug, 
· D.-N.Y. and Jerome R. Waldie, D.­Calif., joined Nader in the suit. Bork, the U.S. Solicitor General, assumed command of the Justice Department and fired Cox after Richardson and Deputy Attorr.ey General William D. Ruckleshaus resigned rather than obey Nixon's orders to dismiss him. 
Gesell also rejected the plain­tiff's arguments that the Cox firing 
desired. The committee asked that 
Student Life Council for action in that body and requested violated Richardson's com­mitment; made during his Senate confirmation hearings, that the special prosecutor would be in­dependent of White House in­terference. 
the cooperation Presidents Cou of ncil  the in  Hall im­ 
measure. The Committee  
safety precaution.  

"Whatever may be the ,moral or political implications of the President's decision to disregard these commitments, they do not alter the fact that the com­mitments had no effect," the judge wrote. 
This was because Congress never passed legislation to prevent "illegal or arbitrary action af­fecting the independence of the Watergate special prosecutor," Gesell said. 
In this regard, the judge noted what he termed a "most un­fortunate" legislative proposal, headed for a House floor vote on Nov. 26, that would provide for a court-appointed special prosecutor. 
"The courts must remain neutral," Gesell said. "Congreszs has it within its own power to enact appropriate and legally enforcable protections against any effort to thwart the Watergate inquiry." 

Thursday, November 15, 1973 the observer 

Marketing Club vvelco~nes 
•

Nichols for lecture series 
.by Judy Rauen horst Staff Reporter 
George Nichols compared marketing to football in his speech to the Marketing Club Tuesday evening in Hayes Healy Center. Nichols quoted Southern California Coach John McKay who said that to stay ahead "you have to run faster." Nichols is the president of Johnston and Murphy Shoe Co., a division of Genesco of Nasville, Tennessee. Histalk was part of the Paul D. Gilbert Lecture Series sponsored by Genesco under the direction of Paul D. Gilbert of Gilbert's Men's Store. 
The purpose of the series is to introduce marketing students to actual practices of successful businessmen. 
"J & M Shoes go back to 1850", began Nichols. He told of the shoemaker William Dudley who came to America from England and established a shoe factory based on quality and craft­smanship, which grew to become Johnston & Murphy. 
The thirty-three year old president gave four reasons for J & M's success. 
Charity B-ball game Saturday 
On November 17 at 2:00 p.m. another charity basketball game will be held at the ACC. All donations will go towards sup­plying Thanksgiving dinners for poor families in South Bend. 
Last years game reulted in the distribution of 150 turkeys and 40 cornish hens and 2400 other food items to over 1000 people in the South Bene area. 

Voice recital at SMC 
Saint Mary's music department will present a voice recital by Beverly Beer, soprano, and Suzanne Kellow, alto, Thursday, November 15, at 8:15 p.m. in the Little Theatre. 
Beer, a senior music educatkon major from Peoria, Illinois, has performed in Saint Mary's productions of "Oliver" and "The Magic Flute." She has also sung with the madrigal singers, women's chorus, and collegiate choir. 
A senior majoring in music education, Kellow is from Philadelphia, Pa. She is president of the collegiate choir, and also sings with the women's chorus and opera workshop. 
Voice students of Susan Stevens, Beer and Kellow travelled to Europe last summer as members of the collegiate choir. Both participated in the 1972 National American Teachers ofSinging Students Auditions, 
a competition which they will 
enter again on November 16. The public is invited to attend the recital. Admission is free. 

RESEARCH 
Thousands of Topics $2.75 per page Send for your up-to-date, 160-page, 
mail order catalog. Enclose $1.00 to cover postage (delivery time is 1 to 2 days). 
RESEARCH ASSISTANCE, INC. 11941 WILSHIRE BLVD., SUITE #2 LOS ANGELES, CALIF. 90025 (213) 477-8474 or 477-5493 Our research material is sold for research assistance only. 
Ge~rge Nichols: muhication," 
First, J & M works with the mills to know what styles are coming and what the accessory emphasis will be. "We try to come out with the right merchandise at the right time while maintaining our product standards," said Nichols. 
The second reason is people. "We have the finest shoe salesmen in the business," stated Nichols. 
Consistant advertising is the third reason. "You have to let people know how good the product is. The key to success is com­munication, " said Nichols. · 
The final reason lies in the execution. Nichols said that . you 
Drivers are desparately n eeded to pick up the turkey dinners at Stepan Center: 9 o'clock, Tuesday morning, No·:ember 20th and deliver them to the individuai 

Charity B-ball game to be held on November 13 
'The finest in 
Cantonese 
Cuisine at Moderate Prices • 
I 
r-







w NO 
SMC 
THEATRE 
SEASON 1973-74 

Thieves' Carnival 
Jean Anouilh's merry masquerade Dec. 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 at 8:30p.m. Washington Hall (Notre Dame) 
execute well by understandin~ your product, and know where you are going to take it. 
The speaker was honored at a cocktail party and dinner at the Morris Inn preceeding the lecture. Among those attending were Paul 
D. Gilber; George Karatis, 
President  of  Gilbert's;  Thomas  
Murphy,  Dean  ofCollege  of  
.Business  Administration;  Dr.  

Hugh Furuhashi, Head of Marketing Department; other faculty members and Marketing Club Officers Jerry Samaniego, Steve Hornig, Sharon Carey and Ken Wolbeck. 
homes in South Bend. If you wish to give up about one half hour of your time, please contact Alan Sondej (7077) or Denny Brennan 

·sea Food Quiet atmosphere 
CLOSED MONDAYS 
RESERVATIONS 284-4176 Bus. Hrs. 283-7054 Show Nites 
Student -Faculty ND-8MC Staff 
$150 

When your parents are in town, have fhem stay in South Bend's NEWEST Hotel 

Jlogol!Inn 
316 S. St. Joseph Reservations: (219) 282·2511 
WEEKEND SPECIALS AVAILABLE 
For dining, visit our 
JOllY KING RESTAURANT 
~nd afterwards hit the "in spot" in town 
THE PURPlE JESTER DISCOTHEQUE lOUNGE. 
Dancing under psychedelic lights Open 11 a.m.-2a.m. Mon.-Sat. 
CLASSIFIED RDS 
FOR RENT 
6 BR house, just renovated, wail to wall carpet, conpletely ~urnished, fireplace. For grad students only. Jan. semester or immidea_te occupation. AI Brasseur 289-2461. 
Apt for rent. $250 mo, utilities included. Call 232-2113. 
NOTICES 
T_vping experienced in theses, dissertations, essays, term papers. Call 232-9061. 
For the conveniences of ND­SMC students Who are staying ofr Thanksgiving game, Rocco's will be open Thanksgiving Day from 4 pm 
on. 
EUROPE! Take advantage of the specialists, British Air­ways-BOAC. Group inquiries welcome. Call 234-2098. 
Good tix for Thurs. Nov. 15 and Fri. Nov. 16 performances of Godpell at Morris civic are 
availbie  at  the  student  union  
ticket  office,  2nd  floor  Iafor­ 
tune, 11:30-5 daily.  

NTHANKSGIVING BUSES TO PITTSBURGH FRI. NOV. 16 5 pm FROM ST. MARY'S' CALL 51llWED. 21 NOON FROM CCE. CALL 1786. BOTH RETURN SUNDAY 25 5 pm. 
~allfornia Club Xmas flight s1gnups travel agency Nov. 9-27 $208.50 
Typing done : theses, papers, etc. Fast. Call Gloria 234-9765. 
Will do typing : term papers, manuscnots, etc. Call 233-6909. 
LOST AND FOUND 
lost black wallet in south dining hall. Reward. Call1486. 
Lost Seiko watch, no vand, 2 weeks ago. Reward . 3380. 
Lost Brown wallet 8th floor flanner. Call Ed 1506. Reward. 
Found: one dorset stainless steel watch without band. Memorial library Lost and Found Dept. 
Found coat let at infimary Nov. 3 Call 7497 to claim.. 
PERSONALS 
Dear Fred, We know death is P( t your wish, so we'll forget the bet. If you'll give us a kiss. Sexy Sam and Juicy _ucy. 
AKCS-Behind the tl1ird trunk trom the left. Hu 1 you big hunk of temptatio1. Homeset five. 
AC-have a Happy Birthday but dont get too drunk at the bars. love, JS 
Way to go , Big Red! Thanks 
for the natural high. later, Chas. 
WILD  BILL  AND  MICK:  
DONT  LEAVE  FOR  GON­ 
ZAGA.  

NO + SMC co-eds. 
Robin· get better soon. Things are too quiet. Everybody. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY ELLEN. WANTED 
Need riders for New Jersey, Spring lake area. Leaving early Sat. Morning. $20 round trip. Call Paddy or Mark 234­4455 after 7 P.M. 
Need 4 tix Wisconsin game. . Will pay S. Call 3877. 
One roommate Nd Apts. 2nd semester. Call Jimbo 283-1552. 
Need 1 or 2 Wisconsin hockey tix. Call Pete 234-2098. 
HOUSEPARENTS: Married couple preferably without children to live in Girls Group Home. Room and board + monlthly salary. Husband may work or study outside the 
Home. Time off is provided. Call Mrs. Carol Wilken at 233­9491. 
2 tix Nov. 29 WHO concert in Chicago. Please call 6716. 
Need 2 tix Wisconsin hockey, either night. Call Dick 234-3285. 
RIDES WANTED 

Need ride from New Haven area on Nov. 25. Call Matt 8417. 
Need  ride  to  Cleveland  can  
leave  game  Thursday.  Call  
,  Greg at 7865.  

Need ride to Mpls-St. Paul leave 11-17, return 11-25. Will share expenses, drivning. Connie 3857. 
Ride to Cleveland Fri. monrning. Call John 282-1568 or 7471. 
Need ride to Cincy for Thanksgiving. Can leave Wed. Nov. 21 at 3. Call 4773. 
Need ride Clevleand weekend of Nov. 16. Mary Beth 4003. 
Ride needed from NYC rea. Teaneck, NJ to NO. Leave Sun. 25 Call Jim 1409 
Need ride to Arkansas or Points South. Leave antime. Bernie 3437 or 3413. 
Ride to Traverse City this fri. Call 6586. 
Need ride on Fri. Nov. 16 to Central Illinois area. (Peoria, ISU) Jim 1487. 
Need ride to Milwaukee Wed. 
21. Call Gretchie 5235. 
FOR SALE 

Meerscaum Pipes. Ex­ceptional values, personalized service. Catalog. PMP Co. Box 444 Gaithersburg. Md. 
20760 

Turquoise jewelry from the southwest. Great for Xmas gifts. Call 8373 or drop by 209 
Pangborn. 

'66 Chevy Belair, 6 eye. 3­speed, $150 Tom 7915. 
pandora's new + used books­bought, sold and traded. save big from 10 to 7 every day. 602 
n. st. louis(at south bend av.) 
Advent Dolby. Almost new­must sell. Call Mike 1487. 
2 GA tix Air Force cheap. Call John 232-8112. 
S Air Force GA tix. Jill 5311. 
Student hockey ticket availble for Wisconsin. Call 232-5312. Make offer. 
Bus ticket from O'Hare to NO Nov. 25 S3.SQ. 3135. 


------------------------~--------~-~-----------------------­
the observer 

Bob Thomas: back in the groove and on the money 

Notre Dame kicker Bob Thomas had been experiencing a frustrating season until the Irish beat Southern Cal three weeks ago, when his three field goals proved the difference in the 23-14 game. 
And some of Thomas' biggest frustrations were with his coach, Ara Parseghian. 
"It all started the week of the Northwestern game," Thomas remembers. "I made up a cheer (a Notre Dame football custom) and I was supposed to pat Coach Parseghian on the back at the end. Instead I got carried away and slapped him on the face. 
"That's the first time since sophomore year I've checked the bulletin board to see if I was dressing for the game." he laughs. 
Thomas hasn't tried to make any alibies for his kicking this season either. Mter connecting on two field goal attempts at Purdue he missed eight more before his three-for-three day against the Trojans. 
"I don't like the word slump," says Thomas. "It's an easy way to talk about not doing your job. Baseball players use it most often and think that just by saying they're in a slump they can be forgiven for a time until they start hitting. 
"I had some tough tries during that streak. Against Michigan State I tried kicks of 42,49, and 55 yards into the wind. And I just plain missed some chip shots. But calling it a slump doesn't justify it." 
Even though a kicker is exposed to as much or more pressure than any other player during his brief time on the field, Thomas claims he didn't press while he was missing. 
"I started to consider what other people must have been thinking," he admits. "But the thing that matters most is what you, your­self, are thinking. And I never doubted my ability to kick." 
And well he shouldn't. Thomas now ranks as the all-time leading field goal kicker in Notre Dame history with 17. He has also at­tempted more than any previous player :-33. He saw his con­secutive point-after-touchdown string broken at Army after he had 
hit 62 straight, second best in NCAA history. 
"I said a prayer at the beginning of the season and told God that I didn't want any recognition all seasgn if I could just have it for the Southern Cal game," Thomas relates. "Mter breaking my PAT streak at Army and missing two field goals, one of which I thought was good, I walked back to my sixth floor room. I opened the curtains and looked toward heaven and said,"I know I told you I didn't want any big games until USC, but this is getting ridiculous." 
Thomas was granted his request but not before he took some more ribbing from his coach. 
"One day at practice Coach dro­kicked a field goal32-yards." says Thomas. "He turned to me and asked if I had seen that. I nodded and he quickly remindedme that I had missed a few from just that far. 
''But then he told me not to worry about it because I was going to beat USC with my field goals. Can you imagine how great that made me feel"?" 
Thomas' performance against the Trojans marked the fourth time in his Notre Dame career that he connected on three field goals. That ties him with Gus Dorais for the single game record. It also earned him the offensive player of the game award from Chevrolet and the Notre Dame Quarterback Club. 
"Every victory is a thrill for me," says the Rochester, N.Y., native. "But to date the USC win has to be my biggest one. We've got at least two more thrills left this season and maybe three if we go to a bowl game. But if you want to see my most satisfying thrill you're all invited up to my room after the season when I try on my national championship ring." 
Thomas would like to play pro ball if given a chance. But he has also applied to law and graduate business school just in case. 
"I've only applied to one school ­Notre Dame," he reveals. "I don't want to leave here. It's been my home nine months out of the year for the last four years." 
And Notre Dame is glad it has been. 
A chance to end another streak 


Bob Thomas splits the uprights against Northwestern. 
Greg Corgan:::=============================================================================::::::::::::::::::::=:=:=:=:=:= 

Extra Points 
===============:::=::::::::::::::::=:=========================================::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::A 
long shot 
Bowl bids come out on November 17, and right now it seems as if we'll be meeting Alabama in the Sugar Bowl on New Year's Eve. 
Now the general reaction to this may be fine, great; we'll have a chance to be number one provided somebody can beat Michigan or Ohio State in the Rose Bowl, and we do defeat Alabama. 
However, there's one flaw. 
On November 24, the Crimson Tide travel to Baton Rouge to meet an as yet unbeaten L.S.U. team, and any one even vaguely familiar with college football knows that the Tigers seldom lose at home. Should Bear Bryant's squad drop this game then, the Irish will find themselves having 
missed out on an opportunity to play in THE bowl game. 
As things stand now, L.S.U. appears headed to the Orange Bowl to battle Penn State. The Orange Bowl officials were genuinely interested in having Notre Dame back in Miami, but when Bear Bryant shrewdly issued his challenge, they w_ithdrew and figured that we would definitely go to New Orleans. In fact, they were supposed to make the trip to Pitt­sburgh to watch us against the Panthers, but cancelled their plans at the last minute when the "Alabama challenge" was issued. 
Notre Dame's goal is to be number one, and as Coach Parseghian said in the Pitt lockerroom after the game, "Our bowl philosophy has always been, number one, to select top competition, and number two, to select a site. We want to play the team that will give us the best chance of winning the national championship." But what if L.S.U. does beat 'Bama, and easily takes care of Penn State, both of which they are entrely capable of doing? We'll have to be mighty impressive to overcome that. So what's the alternative? 
It's possible that there is no alternative, but why can't we wait-in other words sit on our bowl invitation for awhile. First of all we would have to let it known to the Orange Bowl officials that we are by no means com­mitted to New Orleans, and could very well be willing to play L.S.U. in Miami. There is no rule or regulation requiring a team to accept a bowl bid within a certain period of time. Therefore, THEORY: The Sugar Bowl, as expected, extends bids to Alabama and us. Now, the Orange Bowl, with hopes of still getting the top game, ex­tends bids to L.S.U. and us. Of course this all depends upon the presumption that both Bowl committees won't get panicky and invite someone else, leaving Notre Dame with no place to go. 
Keep in mind the fact that bowl bids are extended at such an early time only because that is the earliest possible moment at which they can be handed out. They do not have to go out at this time. At this point in our theory Penn State is being snubbed, and unless Joe Paterno gets cute and decides to go to the Tangerine Bowl or the Astro-Bluebonnett Bowl, they'll sit back and wait for an invitation to either the Sugar Bowl or the Orange Bowl. 
Ara, in the meantime, should theoretically be waiting to see what happens to Alabama and L.S.U. on November 24, and go to the bowl which will feature the winner of that game. When he then accepts that in­vitation on the 24th, Penn State will eagerly accept the other, and we'll have our chance for a national championship. 
Of course this is all highly idealistic, but, then again, nobody has ever tried it. Obviously both Bowls want the big game, because there's alot of money involved. Therefore, both Bowl committees could conceivably be willing to extend their invitations to Notre Dame in hopes that their other invitee will be the winner on November 24. The question is whether or not they will have nerve enough to wait and risk losing Penn State. But, as mentioned before, the Nittany Lions will probably jump at the invitation issued them even if they do get it after the 24th. 
There is one more problem. If the Bowl committees decide that they don't want to put up with our finesse moves, that also could leave us nowhere. But who else would they invite? Something like that seems highly unlikely. 
Anyway it's all theory, but it certainly would be interesting to see what would happen. Since the NCAA insists on allowing bowl invitations to go out so early we could very well set a precedent and force collegiate of­ficials to revamp their rules, making bowl committees wait until the season ends. This would and rightly should, entail a uniform ending of the college football season. Perhaps the season would have to be shortened or other sacrifices made, but it would turn out for the best, not only as far as getting the best bowl games, but also avoiding all the headaches and hassles surrounding the bowlsituationas it is now. 
So, two recommendations that should be taken into consideration are, 
1) that the NCAA should wait until the end of the collegiate football season before allowing bowl invitations to be extended, and 2.) consequently they should also provide for a uniform conclusion of the football season. This should make things much fairer, and much more interesting for future post-season competition. 
·< 



