
On The Inside 
An Tostal plans 
....page 3 
New Byrds album reviewed ...page 5 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VII No. 97 
Wednesday, March 21, 1973 

New VP of student affairs 
Faccenda receives appointment 
HPC endorses LaFortune Center renovation 

by Tom Drape Senior Reporter 
llr. Phillip J. Faccenda is the new Notre Dame vice­pn•sidl'nt for student affairs, University Provost Fr. .lanws T. Burtchaell announced yesterday, before a small gathering of Faccenda's friends and staff. 
Nanwd as associate vice-president for Student Af­fairs is Fr. James Flanigan. Faccenda and Flanigan both wer£' acting appointees to the offices, and their p(•rnwnPnt positions become effective immediately. 
Faccpnda's appointment was made at a recent na•et ing of the Pxecutive committee of the UniversitY's Board of TrustPes. Out of four final candidatei Dr. Faecpnda was University President Fr. Thebdore llesburgh's nominee. · 
In accPpting the position. Faccenda resigned his posit ions as University Counsel and !:Assistant. secrt>tarv to the Board of Trustees. He will remain as senior e~mnsel to the university. 
"'It is with considl'rable reluctance that I leave my fornwr dutiPs." stated Faccenda. 
\\"ith n•gard to his acceptance of the new position Faecenda t•xplained. "I have taken this step only lwcaus£' I am convincl'd that student affairs is criticlly important in thl' future of the university." 
"'It will lw a pleasure to share my responsbilities \\"ith Fr. Flanigan. who I asked to join me as my initial act as acting vice-presidetn," he said. 
FaccPnda addressl'd his staff by saying that he 
pn•sunwd tlwir continued cooperation and assistance. 
Ill' out lirwd his objectives as continuing to open up 
tlw st udPnt affairs· department and establish shared 
n•sponsibilities . 
.., lwliPve the next eight weeks will be critical in 
shaping policy for the next few years." Faccenda said. 
Fr. Burtchaell introduced Faccenda as a "highly 
('Xpt>rimced professional." 
"Dr. Faccenda is well acquainted with our 
l'nivl'rsity. He has been extremely helpful in years of 
turmoil and antagonism." commented the Provost. 
Burtchaell lauded Faccenda's ability to bring 
committee arguments to rational ends as better than 
anyone's on campus. 
"'lie is more than a reconciler." said Burtchael." 
Noting that Faccenda will be the first layman 
din•ctly in charge of the Holy Cross community, 
Burtchaell affirml'd thl' new vice-president's abilities 
"Next eight weeks in shaping policy." 
to "help us move forward." 
··Ttw search committee diligently sought candidates from the Holy Gross community, as Father Hesburgh and I had asked them to do, but none emerged as a finalist for the position. Dr. Faccenda's excellent rapport with Holy Cross priests working in student <lffairs on campus. however. bodes well," said Burt­chaell. 
In his prepared statement, Faccenda did not detect a break in tradition with his appointment to a position lwfore hPid by a C.S.C. 
"'I ,,·otrld prl'fer to believe that Notre Dame has asked another nwmber of the family to provide special assistance for a time, which is within the richness of lwr posit ion." Faccenda said. 
Fr. Flanigan accepted his appointment from llt>sburgh "with appreciation." 
Ill' issued thanks to Faccenda for his temporary appointnwnt to the position and also the "the whole staff of the student affairs department." 
Flannigan described his goal to make the next years at 1\otre Dame "exciting, creative, and educationally ht>nPficial to all the people we touch." 
In rt>lating the events which led to Faccenda's ap­pointnwnt. Burtchaell emphasized the careful and dt>dicated work which had been expended by the St>arch Committee over a year and a half. Their original assignment had called foa holy Cross priest to fill the position. 
The Committee which was formed in the fall of 1971 at the resignation of former UPSA Fr. Thomas Blantz, was asked by the University President and Provost to find a nominee that was Catholic, professionally ex­perienced and, ifpossible, a member of the Holy Cross order. 
The original search committee consisted of Fr. McGrath from the Biology Department chairman, Dr. Faccenda, Dean Thomas Shaffer of the Law School, Fr. David Burrell from the Theology Department, John Barkett, Student Body President 1971-72, Mrs. Jean Swartz and Mr. James W. Frick, vice-president for public relations and development. 
As Burtchaell related yesterday, when it became t>vident in the spring of 1972 that the committee had not found a nominee, Faccenda was appointed in a tem­porary capacity. At that time they had considered 80 candidates. 
Shaffer replaced McGrath as chairman and former Walsh Hall President David Fromm replaced Barkett at the beginning of the 1972-73 academic year. 
In tlw committee's November report they noted they had eonsiderl'd 89 candidates from across the country. AftPr interviewing 18, they submitted four names to the Board of Trustl'es, none of which were Holy Cross priests. One nominee voluntarily withdrew. 
"After lengthy and congenial discussion the Executive Committee decided upon Dr. Faccenda," tlw Provost announced. 
\\'hen questioned concerning a possible change in student affairs representation on the Committee on tlniversity Prioritil's with Faccenda's appointment, Burtcha£'11 said "they were certainly going to talk about it." 
Pr. l•'accl'nda is an attorney by profession and for­nwrly a partner in a LaSalle Street law firm in Chicago. A 1952 Notre Dame mechanical engineering graduatt> and 1957 Loyola University of Chicago law graduate. Faccenda came to ND as a special assistant to tlw president in 1967. 
by Jim Eder Staff Reporter 
Tlw hall presidents agreed unanimously to (•ndorse the renovation of the LaFortune Studt•nt Ct•nter last night. 
KPn Knevel. chairman of the renovation ('ommilll'e. requested the endorsement of tlw IIPC to "prove to the university trusH'l'S that the majority of the students 1rant and rwed a new student center." 
Krwvl.'l warned the presidents. however. that sli~ht l·utbacks in funds for hall im­prm·(•nwnts might result because of the cost of 1he proposed LaFortune n•nova I ions. 
The se\·t•ntPen-man renovation com­nlittee will nwPt next week to work out the dPtails as to'\\'110 will control the center. "'\\'p hopt•." Krwvel said. "that the student l'('lliPr will bt> student-controlled. possibly hv tlw Pnd of this semt>ster." 
·Kl'll\'l'l Pxplained that all the 
n•no\"ations should bl.' eompll'tl'd over the 
courSl' of tlw IWXI two 
~ 

Clnrl~<•: .. N!'ll' constitution by Thursday." 
sumnwr tlw Rathskellar will be converted 
into an Irish pub and all the student offices 
will lw rejuvenated. 
NPxt sumnwr the remainder of the 
l'(•ntPr will be completely remodeled, 
JH'm·idin~ lobbil's. small lounges, informal 
n:l'PI in~ an•as. an outdoor playground. 
and hillard and ping-pong rooms. The 
plans a I so call for the renovation of the 
lluddlP. 
Explainin~ thl.' philosophy behind the 
proposals of tlw renovation committee. 
Km·\·d said. "Th£' LaFortune Center 
should lw a focal point for the universitv--a 
na•t•tin~ plaee for students. faculty,alumni 
;1nd guPsts alike." 
.I im Clarkl'. l'X·l·andidate for student 
hody pn•sidt>nl. also attended the HPC 
n:t'Piin~ to announce that the committee 
"''"'king on a rww student government 
constitution should eome up with a final 
draft hv Thursdav. The committee con­
sists ol' ('\arkl'. tiis formt>r running-mate 
Chris Singlpton. Student Body President 
I\oh Kl'rstPn. Studt•nt Body Vice-President 
\ h'nnis EtiPmw. HPC Chairman Fred 
1\<rranowski and StudPnt Body Treasurl'r 
:\lik(' :\\aq,!PI. 
Thl' hall prt>sidt>nls dt>cided to invitl' Fr. 
. laml's L. Hit>hlP, director of student 
housing. to tlwir lH'XI nwPiing to discuss 
prol'l'dllr('s for forein~ students off 
l'ampus. intl'ntionally crowding rooms. 
;rnd dl'signazing fn•shma nnrooms. 
Ill'(' t·:x<·cut in• Coordinator Slt>\'l' 
.i··~Pinick annoum·pd a nwPting at i p.m. _Tirur~day _in tlw Bn•<•n-Phillips chapel for stud<·nts rntt•n•st<'d in working for An T"st<rl \\ <'l'k<•tHI. Tlw annual edehration 
11 rll h<• <'<·1<1.\pril :!ti. '!.i and '!.H. tlw W< ,·kend 
lllllll<·diatPI~· following J<:astpr break. 
,J,·s<·lnick <riso diselos<'d that "'Tlwn• will ll(' a 1<T~· SJWeial. St'('l'l'l priz<• awarded to 1111' lr;rll th<ll pro\'idPs lh<' most outstanding ;rddrtron In lilt• \\'l'l'kPncl." 
.l<'s<>lnit·k cited Lyons Hall's entry of an t>lephant in last year's tug-of-war and this ~·(·ar·s plans of one hall for the con­struetion or a ~iant observation balloon as I'Xalll)l)l'S or IIW type of "additions" that tlw jud~Ps will be looking for. 
,\ sp<>l·ial kite-flying contest has been sdwduiPd for Thursday afternoon of An Tostal \\'Pekl•nd. according to Jeselnick. .Judges from tlw aerospace department will award $50 to tlw "most original kite'' and $'!.5 to tlw "highest-flying kite." All studt•nts an• Pli~ible to ('Iller. 
LatPr that aftl•rnoon tht• annual hask<>thall ganw ht>tW('l'n the \'arsity haskPthall play(•rs and a ~iris basketball tPam willlw lwld. Tlw rl•gulations require tlw ,·arsity players to wear boxing gloves durin~ tlw ~anw. The femal£' team to part il'ipate this year will be determined bv <l play-off lwt\\'t>\H'en St. Marv's best squad and tlw top Nil girls teani. 
Tht> first annual Notre Dame decathalon will be held on the final day of the festi\'al. l•:ach hall will be allowed to enter one five­itHill team in the ten-event contest. More dPtails about this new edition to An Tostal \\.t>t•kend will be provided in the weeks to l'OllW. 
.h•splnil·k asspr·tpd that his daim that t 'harll•ton 11\>ston might appt'ar at the l"hariot-rm·p is no jokP. "'HPston was <·ontal'l<'d and lw said that if at all possible h• would likl• to alll'lld." 




an campu• taday 
12: 15 pm--seminar " he effect of allogenic lymphocy es on responsiveness and rolerance", by dr. euguene p. ornellas, room 102, lobund lab, galvin life center 
3:30 pm--colloquium " he effects of wake spli er pia es on he flow past of circular cylinder for sub-cri deal reynolds number", by dr. albin a. szewczyk, room 303, engr. bldg. 
4:00 pm--lecture. "francis bacon: a highly suscep ible chancelor", by rev. ernan me­mullin, mem.. lib. audt. 4:30pm--music forum, wirh michael hennessey nf smc music depr.• little theatre, smc 
6:30 
pm--meeting, sailing club, room 204, eng. bldg. 

6:30 
pm--meeting, 127 niewland science, arts & le ers mini courses 


7:00 pm--tryouts for "you're a good man, charlie brown.'' washington hall, auditiOI). ma erial available in room 110 moreau, smc 
(continued on page 7) 
Benefit concert for Black social activities suggested 
by William Murphy Staff Reporter 
Student Life Council t·epresentative Floyd Kezele has suggested that the Student Union sponsor one major concert per yt•ar with all profits to be turned over to the black community on eampus. 
According to Kezele, some sort of black student union could be cre~ted to use the concert profits to improve the social life of Notre !lame's black students. 

t 
I 

Dr. Rusnak
I r to speak on
r 
r 
r 

German relations 
r 
r llr. Josef Rusnak. West German 
r Consul from the Consulate General's office in Detroit will
~ spt-ak in Room 120, Hayes-Healy 
~ ('(•nter. at 4:30 pm today on
, 
Chancellor Willy Brandt's Ost­politik and the improved relations bt-twt-en the two Germanys in rect-nt times. 
lie will also discuss the n•mifications of this rappochment on world trade and european polities. The public is invited to <tttl'nd and admission is free. 
or 
LOIS TRANTER JORDON MOTORS 
259-1981 
For studenls and faculty 21 ancl over 


RENT·A·CAR 

Kl'zele stated that he thought the amount given to the black society, Ujamma. from the Student Ac­tivities Fee doesn't allow enough for the society to plan a well working program of speakers, eultural events and social ac­tivities for its members. 
KPzele noted that taking the profits from one major concert would give Ujamma more of a working fund then accepting risk," said Kezele. "to agree to accept the uncertain profits of a concert rather than a set amount of funds from student government, but during the four years I've been here there has only been one concert that lost money." 
Kezele also noted that a well funded program of black speakers and cultural events would benefit the whole student body by in­creasing Black awareness. 
Former Student Union Director .Jim Schneid said that if the Student Union gave away the funds from one of its eight major con­certs it would have an affect on the Union's overall operations. 
"Profits from the ACC con­certs". said Schneid. "are used for our free movies and over-the-hill concerts. We can't afford to drain our funds because of the affect on our activities for the overall student body." 
Sehneid did say that the Student tlnion would be willing to assist any black group to establish a separate agreement with the ACC for a concert" 
The Student Union. said Schneid 
has set aside $1000 for the use of any recognized black cultural group who might wish to sponsor some activity such as the smaller eoncerts sponsored by the in­ternational students in Stepan Cmter and Washington Hall this year. 
Mike Nicherson, a member of the I<:xecutive Committee of tljamma, was contacted by the Student Union in an atempt to ('stablish a black entertainment eommittee to use these funds. 
"Such a committee", said Nickerson. "has always been present among the black com­munity but now the Student Union is going to take over some of the financial burdens." 
Nickerson called this action a progressive step toward helping the black student's situation here on the campus. 

Calls for 1 

HAGGAR SLACKS \ 
\ 
One of the handsome new Haggar knits feature~ •n look... this cool. cool approach to spring and summer lets you 

""'"'' 
enjoy all the advantages of knits and a man's plaid pattern. 
)
Fl<'ashion pockets, flare legs, in a 95 percent Dacron polyester. 5 percent linen. Comes out of the dryer ready to \\'('ar. 

from $16 
lise the exclusive Campus Shop Way to buy. Pay next June, 
July and August with no s~rvice or carrying charge. Ncthing :ould be easier. 
ND-8MC THEATRE announces 
auditions for 
You're A Good Man, Charlie Brown 
Washington Hall, March 21 & 22 7:00 pm. 
Audition materials are available in the Speech and Drama office. Rm 110, Moreau Hall, Saint Mary's. 
OPEN TO ALL ND AND SMC STUDENTS 

Chuck -cl""ss of '65 
CALL AHEAD FOR KEGS 272-9800 

isit our Wine Cellar for the best selection 
of Domestic and Imported wines in town Check our March Beer Special* Discounts Available * 

Wednesday, March 21, 1973 the observer 
3 

An Tostal features new events 

by Sue Prendergast Staff Reporter 

With the addition of several l'xciting nt•w events. the An Tostal \\'l'l'kend of April 26-28 promises to •bl' a wild celebration. 
Onl' of the main additions of Notre llanw's annual festival of spring will be the "An Tostal Challt•nge." According to An Tostal Chairman Steve Jeselnick, tlw hall or group of students t•ontributing the "most spec­tacular. zany. and wonderful addition to the An Tostal weekend 
Iabove and beyond the normal aet ivit ies l will receive a .really unusual prize." The natureof this prizt'. donated by an anonymous lwnefactor. is as yet known only to tht• i\n 'Tostal committee. 
Tlw ··An Tostal Challenge" 

sprang from the surprise ap­
pearanct• at last year's tug-of-war 

of an (•lephant rented by Lyons 
IIall. 
Groups competing in the "An 

Tostal Challenge" may plan thier 
entries as surprises or they may 
work with the An Tostal committee 
if they wish publicity. Jeselnick 
noted that one hall is already 
considering plans for a large 
to a boisterous close withthe ·"Irish Wake," at the  ABBEY IS HAPPY  
South Bend Armory from 9-1 Saturday night. Couples only will  to announce our new budget motel in  
lw admitted with a donation of $4 Pl'l' couple. Tickets will go on sale  South Bend. Lovely rooms at low cost.  
at till' dining halls on April 2, but only a limited number are avaiable  $10.00 single $12.50 double  
and only advance tickets will be sold. The Wake will feature "live  Friendly happy atmosphere··  
entl'rtainment and all the beer you ean drink--guaranteed not to  Send your friends and relatives  
ru1111out." Jeselnick promised. Although plans for AnnTostal an• well underway, help is still nt'l'dl'd .for many of the vents. The  ABBEY INNS OF AMERICA 52825 U.S. 31 N South Bend, Indiana 46637@ (219) 272-9000  
An Tostal committee ~invites any  (next to the Boars Head)  
HOW A~E THINGS AT HOME? Long distance still is the next best thing to being there. And you can save money by calling nights or weekends. @Indiana Bell  


Frosh orientation contest is.oJ?en to any 5-girl squad. 

plans. 
balloon to float in the skies over du 
Lac. 
Otlwr new events are scattered throughout the weekend. Gentle Thursday. April 26, will premier tlw "Kite-Flying Spectacle." The lwst designed kite will rate a $50 prize and the highestr flying kite, $25. 
(;pntle Thursday will also in­elude the traditional trivia bowl and the "Girls vs. Jocks" basketball game between the Notn• Ilame varsity hasketball tl'am and the winners of an SMC­NI l girls basketball play-off. This 


COmmittee adds 
• b 
SlX mem ers 
by Jim Ferry Staff Reporter 

The Campus Orientation Committee. which handles fresh­man orientation. has added six mPmbers. according to committee l'hairman Dan Schipp and Dave Caruso. 
Schipp said a larger committee would be more effective because "wl' thought a better job could be done with a campus wide orien­tation program." 
Caruso added that "we also wantPd to get frosh input into the committee.·· 
Caruso also said he felt that the largt•r commillee would serve to -lwlp future orientation programs. 
"Wt•'ll have someone here with sonw l'Xperience when we leave. \\'(• know tha hassle we've had 1-!"tt ing informa lion at the last minutt•. and this can hopefully be avoided." 
Tlwy both felt that the new arrangt•nwnt would lend a sense of "t'ontinuity" to the program. 
The nt•w nwmbers of the com­n;ittet• \\'ere selected from 18 applications and are as follows: namiors Tl'rrv Skeehan <Walsh) and i\like . BPcker !B-Pl sophomores llrew Costarin~ I KPl'nan l and Ann Pakalnis 1Badin l. and freshmen Mark '\ischan ti\lumnil and Mike Zakour tSt .•Joe's>. 
t\ new· Fmd Your Mate" contest '~ill highlight the festivites on the North Quad Thursday night. This 
is open to couples only. All con-tt•stants will be blindfolded and allowl'd to minutes to find their "wate." "using whatever method they ehoose." Jeselnick explained. "H tlwy fail to do so. they will be honm·pd guests at the pie-throwing booth. 
Another Thursday night at­tract ion will be the dunking booth, 
featuring various campus l'l'lebrities--"Student Government poobahs. hall presidents, and 
Pther  notorious  misfits,"  
.lt•sselnick sairl.  
In  the  Jello-toss  Friday  af­ 
ternoon.  contestants  will  try  to  

bt•at the existing record <over 170 fl'l't) for catching Jello in the mouth. 
On Friday night the An Tostal Amateur Hour will attempt to discover hidden talents of the student body. This popular even will be Pmceed by Jim Brogan. a 1972 N)) graduate and former An Tostal Impersonation Contest erand Champion and emcee. 
Looking for a place to get away on Lake Michigan? For rent Lodge and cabins during April and-or May. Only 30 min. from campus: Gintaras resort 15860 Lake Shore Rd. Union Pier Mich. Tel. 616-469-3298 or 312­737-4515 



Box Office Open 
at gate 1 0 of ACC 9-5 
.mterested Notre Dame or St. 
shuttll' buses. pass out ballons at 
Mary's students to attend the 
the diningnhalls Thursday night.nweiing at 7 p.m. Thursday night lwlp run the events, tally scores. in the Breen-Philips chapel. 
andt check ~ontestants," Jeselnick "We need student to decorate the t'omment ed. 

Nominations for GSU 
President , Vice President and Secretary-Treasurer are now being accepted 
All interested Grads see Barry Wessels 1028 
N.S.H. for more information. 
Nominations close March 30th 
Tlwre will also be a free outdoor conet•rt at Stepan Center on Friday night. The "surprise group" is heoing eospnsored by the An Tostal committee and Student Union. 
Tlw Great Frisbee Tournament to lw lwld at the picnic Saturday aftt•rnoon at Holy Cross Hall, is anot lwr new event. Judges will award prized for the longest frisbel' toss and the most polished frisbl'c technique. 
Tlw An Tostal field bet­wel'n•.Notre Dame and St. Mary's will bl' the-scene later Saturday aftt•rnoon for the great chariot racl'. rwedle-in-the-;haystack and pie-eating contest. grand tug-of­war. an~ the "Vollyeyball Game in the mud." which is .open to any !1-nwmber team. 
Tlw An Tostal festival will come 







THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Art Ferranti Executive Editor 
Dan Thornton Business Manager 
Jerry Lutkus Editor-in-Chief  Dan Barrett Executive Editor  
NEWS:  283-1715  
EDITORIALS:  283-8661  Joe Butler  
BUSINESS:  283-7471  Advertising Manager  


Wednesday, March 21, 1973 

And Now, To Work 
Yesterday Dr, Philip Faccenda in accepting the position of Vice President for Student Affairs engaged himself in an area which is critically important in the future of the University of Notre Dame. Student ·affairs is in a crucial period today. It is a period which can destroy student life and hall life as we know it now. Faccenda has distinguished himself thus far in centralizing his department and acting with foresight and honesty, but to make the necessary major con­tribution, his office will have to do more than streamline departments. Here are some areas in which Faccenda will have to exert the power and influence of his position and his office. 
Housing 
The housing situation at Notre Dame is in need of improvement, both on and off campus. --On Campus: The dormitory situation is in a state of considerable flux. The creation of women's dorms necessiated the moving of males to other areas and in the process it has endangered the stay hall system as we have it now. The movement of men and women has borne a haphazard appearance and it would not only improve that appearance, but create an order and definition to university housing if Faccenda's office initiated a long range study of housing. In the study they could examine the future of the stay hall system given the present confusion and chaos.' . Also, the study could delve into the possibility of special halls-­ac~demic halls, freshmen halls, and experimental college halls. Most im­portantly the study could look into the possibility of co-ed dormitories. 
The study would only be a study and its results not binding. The advantages of this move would be evident. While the stay hall system is presently in such a state of flux, it would be beneficial to use the situation to study it and other housing possibilities. Then students and ad­rrinistration could look into possible changes. As long as people have to be shuffled around, the student affairs office rray as well use the situation as best it can. --Rertors: The rectors of the halls at Notre Dame are the experts on haII life here, yet thier expertise on hall affairs and student. affairs generally goes for naught. They are advised and oc­casionally placed on committees, but the rectors have no more than consulting influence on student affairs. Their potential in aiding student and hall life is ifl1 measurable, it is the office of student <tffairs responsibility to mold their ex­pertise into a working body. --Off Campus: The Office· of Student Affairs should use their.-positiQn to initiate an off campus tenants union. The union would police the off campus housing and landlords. They, with the university's backing, could help control rents in the area, prevent improper facilities from being rented out, and aid students '~oking for off campus housing. Other universities have accomplished, strong off campus tenants unions that 

protect students moving off. With in­creasing numbers of Notre Dame students going off, it seems imperative that we have one too. Faccenda's office should present students the framework in which they can begin this union. 
The quality of off campus housing is disturbingly poor and thE! number of good housing is small. So, it would· fall -within the jurisdiction of Faccenda's office to study the possiblity of building more off campus housing. This would cost considerably less than building on campus facilities and would help make off campus living more attractive. If the office has already looked into the matter, than those in­volved should release their findings to the students. They have the right to know 
why  such  avenues  are  closed  to  ex­ 
pansion.  
Finally,  the  office  should  create  an  

experimental food co-op for Notre Dame students. The co-op should be established on a temporary basis for one semester. Then its effectiveness could be studied and okayed or rejected as a permanent facility. 
All in all, off campus living has to be made into a more attractive experience if the University cannot guarantee on campus housing for more of its students. A new dormitory has been flatly ruled out, so the only other outlet is the im­provement of off campus. The initative of that improvement fies within Fac­cenda 's office. 
Security 
The responsibility in the long run for improving security lies in Faccenda's hands. Robbers over the weekend were thwarted but the campus is still not secure and the failure to apprehend suspects in earlier robberies indicated immense room for improvement. Faccenda must see that that improve­ment comes. 
Board of Trustees 
Across the country, students have been given positions on Boards of Trustees granting the student bodies a direct say in th<' operation of the school. This would be a progressive and beneficial move on the part of Notre Dame's Board if they opened themselves to student mem­bership. All of this lies within Faccenda's possibilities. If he used his new office he can initiate the action necessary to place students on the board. 
These are but a few important problems facing the Office of Student Affairs and Fr. Philip Faccenda that he must urgently pursue. Many more exist beyond these. These are not all new problems but all of them must be seriously investigated for the benefit of the Notre Dame students. Father Burt­chaell in appointing Faccenda claimed that student affairs will see a lot of changes in the next few years. Hopefully, these will be some of those changes. 
Jerry Lu tkus Butch Ward 

Tac::a Belles Mexico: The Still And The Living 

trish maare 
Adobe huts with thatched roofs lined the highway. As our bus thundered by. we were able to catch a glimpse of a hammock or two swinging inside the huts. Barefooted, smudgy-cheeked children smilt•d and waved as we passed. Thus marked our first view of the famed Yucatan P!.'ninsula. 
Heggie M!.'ridith and I had 3 weeks in which to explore the Yucatan and other surrounding slates...So armed with knapsacks, cameras, Tcrr_v"s Guide to Mexico and enough medicine to combat any ailment 1n• ~et off by bus--a cheap and fairly reliable mode of travel--for the Yucatan. 
One!.' into the heart of the south-eastern peninsula, we decided to make M!.'rida. the capital of the state of Yucatan, our base and to branch out from there. 
The city of Merida. although almost as modern as Mexico City, still n•tains much of its colonial charm. The tree-lined "zocalo", or main plaza. with its gazebo and wrought-iron chairs is filled with people strolling. conversing, reading, or just watcching the activity. A few blocks away. one can rent a horse-drawn surrey for an hour-long "paseo" around the city. Close by is the city's central market, one of the most colorful in Mexico. You walk through an endless maze of booths where people are selling such regional handicrafts as ham­mocks and sandals as well as Indian blouses and dresses. Once in a while. as you stroll among the booths, you feel a tug on your sleeve; ~·ou turn to see a little girl in native costume who pleads with you to buy the trinket .;he is selling. You usually do. 
From Merida. we took day trips to the Mayan ruins of Uxmal and Chichen-Itza. We'd hoard a bus that bounced and roared through numt'rous tiny villages, stopping along the way to pick up a woman who is going to the r ·~xt town to sell the two live turkeys she has under her arm. or perhaps a young boy who is selling fried bananas. 
The bus rides. lasting about 2 hours, were part of the fun. Not only was tlw scenery picturesque. but many of the other passengers were people Wl' had seen on every other bus to every other Mayan ruin we had l'isited. Many times we were the only North Americans traveling with people from Germany, France, Austria, and Japan, as well as from Mexico. By the second or third bus ride, we had come to know <'ach other and we would pass the time exchanging our travel ex­periences. Moreover. as many of our fellow travelers from Europe and Asia spoke no English. we had to converse in Spanish. Although our Spanish is far from perfect, it was a great feeling to be able to spl'ak with these people from all over the world in a language other than our native·one! 
Thl' Mayan ruins themselveswPrl'fascinating! It is hard to believe that an ancient civilization could build such arehilt>clural wonders dl'velop a numerical system and a calendar, and then just vanish without a sign as did the Mayan:.;. 
From the Yucatan. we traveled to primitive Chiapas, a state whch borders Guatemala. San Cristobal de las Casas, a town tucked awav high in the mountains of Chiapas, is the center of activity for the lnidans of the surrounding mountain villages. 
~:ach morning I he market place is filled with people trading, and one ean easily tell from which village an Indian man is by the costume lw wears. The Zinacatecan men, for example, wear short cotton tunics and shorts. and flat straw hats adorned with a handful of brightly-colorl'd l'ibbons. All the men wear traditional high-backed sandals and carry leather shoulder bags. But it was the women of Chiapas that left the biggest impression on us. Their costumes are of drab. lwav~· material. They carry no leather purses, but rather heavy loads of wood I ied to their backs. with a baby wrapped in a shawl and slung from Ihl' front. Their faces are old and lined from sadness and hard work. And their bare feet patter on the cold streets of San Cristobal as they hasten to keep up with their husbands. 
Tlw nl'xl stop on our journey was the hot and dusty town of 

I'Pimantepec. Hl're is the low. desert-like land of the Islmus of T<'lmantl'pt•e \\'('found the remains of a society so unlike any other we had sel'n in Ml'xieo. It seems that many years ago this town was a matriarch~·. Although customs have changed somewhat for the people of Tehuantepl'c. it is still evident that women play a far more im­portant role here than the women of Cniapas. These women, tall and proud. Wl'ar long. trailing skirts with short embroidered blouses of I'Pivl't. It is the woml'n who run the town market and who can be seen at mid-day sitting in the plaza having a smoke (solely a male activity in 1\lexico l. We spent most of the day just sitting, watching this fascinating scene. Mll'r ]paving Tehuantepec. we visited several other towns before returning to Ml'xico City. Although our trip through the Yucatan was neitlwr our first nor last traveling experience in Mexico, it is the one 1n• valul' the most. Not only did we Jearn about the ancient Mayans. hut also of the people living now in that area--their dress, their \'Ustoms. and their ways of life. plus a better understanding of their languagl'. lksides Jearrung a lot about ourselves as individuals. we ll'<'n' forced. through our European. Asian. and i\IPxican aequain­' lances to see ourselves as products of the United States. We un­dPrstood. better than in any classroom. the way in which the rest of the world views the llnited Stall's. In no classroom in the U.S. can one IParn tlw t'ffect the l 'nited States --its attitudes and policies--has upon tlw nations and the people of the world. This experience left us ,·ery confused. a bit embarassed. and a lot wiser than before. I sup­post• that is what our ~·ear abroad is all about. 
the observer 
MiiMglng Editor: Joe Abell News Editor: Anthony AboM SMc· Editor: Mariii Gallagher Editoriill Editor: Butch Ward Fe11tures Editor: Beth Hall Sports Editor: Vic Dorr Wire Editor: Tom Drape 
Night Editor: Jack Frischkorn 
Typists: Diane Chcrmside, John Ass'! Night Editor: Albert 
r l,lnniqan' HOWilrd Halle. Dave D'Antonio 
D,ly Editor: Milry Eqan 
N •ght Controller: Bobby Stein Pictures: Jt·rorne and his thankful 
IIlii/ 
1 c1nCII1' 
Compuqraphic Man: J. Bulleto Ass'! features editor: Sue Pren 
dt'r<i<lSt 
Recardinrp 



rick wakeman: 
It's quilt• probable that Atlantic Hl'cords offl'rl'd a hl'll of a lot of money for Rick \\'akeman's contract when he joined Yes a lillll' over a year ago. But Yes' popularity suddt•nly went soaring, along with the qua lily of music being produced by the group. I\ & M took a gamble that some of that \'ps money would get to them and \Yakeman's contract rl'ntaiiwd in A & ~!·~ hands. 
\\'dl. the gamble paid off. Wakeman's skill was finally given full rein and the result is a blockbuster. 
And what a blockbuster the album is. The man who appeared at Notre Dame last November in the wizard's cape works more 111agic than ever before in The Six Wives of Henr.v VIII. Based on tht: characters of lll'tH-y's wives. the album is a triumph of kcyboard playing that equals and even 

surpasses the work of many of Wakeman's predecessors in \he rock keyboard field, including Nicky Hopkins and Keith 1•: 111 l'l'SOll. 
Very effectively combining a classical sound. in the tradition of Emerson, and a good hard rock sound like Hopkins and Jon Lord of Ih'ep Purple, Wakeman isn't afraid of using any keyboard to produce the desirl'd effect. To shoot a riff of a Moog through an otherwise Bach-like organ piece isn't taboo to him. neither is something like aht•rnating a grand piano and ARP syn­tlwsiZl'r with an organ and vocals. 
relaxed style 
Freed from the -highly structured Yes 

style. Wakeman's playing becomes more 
rPiaxed than Yes as a whole. He takes his 
t inw and builds up the suspense and energy 
much more leisurely than Yes. And the 
show. for a change. is all his--there's very 
lillie intruding bass. guitar or drums to take 
away from his keyboard skill. 
But the really fascinating part is that 

though eleven keyboards are used, most of 
the music is played at one lime. There 
sPt'ms to be very little re-recording on this otlwr. they somehow tie together to form a colwrenl whole. 
Till' first. "Catherine of Aragon." shows quite a bit of Yt•s influence. and for good n•ason: Chris Squire. Bill Bruford and Stl've Howe are all guest-starring. But the t rul' Y l'S sound is more or less over after the first tl1irty seconds and Wakeman's own style takes over. and only reappears in brief bursts for the rest of the song. 
Short sections of the piece are almost familiar: Brief organ and synthesizer passage bring back memories of the "Clockwork Orange" theme, and is followed by a short piano and vocal gospel sound. 
Styles are fairly well mixed in "Catherine." as the above familiar motifs sh()w and as Wakeman's various piano cadenzas throughout the song show. He moves from one style to another in an almost logical order. Most effective is his ability 10 make each new style seem to branch out naturally from the one just l'nding. a trait prevelant on most of the album. 
"Anne of Cleves" 

"Anne of Cleves" starts out as rock, as opposed to "Catherine of Aragon," which is more jazz and classical oriented, and rcmains mostly rock. Wakeman's rock organ and electric piano skill is brought to tlw fore here as he winds his way through quite a few fascinating themes. The strange occurance of a few bars of the Hollies' old "Bus Stop" is quickly buried in the wealth of organ and electric piano music. At points, howcver. he does tend to get bogged down in his playing and the music degenerates into a scries of confused notes. One short passage of harpsichord makes very little sense when it is suddenly introduced and just as suddenly ended. Percussion and bass play a much bigger role than in the first song, even lot he point of a breath ofSantanafelt in one scction. 
"Catherine Howard," the final song on the first side. is one of the prettier pieces in that it most effectively combines classical piano with a contemporary sound. The n•statement of the same motif in a sythesizer's more unusual sound effects is eurious. yet not inconsistent. The thing that is inconsistent. though, is the brief interlude of harpsichord describing an Aaron 
Copeland "Rodeo" sound in the middle of 
the work. This almost destroys thed'fec\ 
accomplished in the first part. The final 
nwllotron passage makes up for it, though, 
and ties things together in a very satisfying 
l'irst side. 
Side two begins with a short "Jane Seymour." which. with the exception of a fpw blasts of synthesizer, is mainly a piece on a church-like organ. Wakeman's dassical background is placed before the listl'tll'r unlike any other part of the album 
album. and the image of a blonde blur . and the result is magnificent. This guy 
jumping from keyboard to kl'yboard in a recording session runs through one's head. .\nd \\'akeman plays everything outside of hass. guitar and drums. Even vocals are routl'd through a mellotron in one piece. Tlw songs themselves are a beautiful n•ixtut'l' of style and effects. some that \\'ork. otlwrs that don't quite come off. Tht•y'n• arranged in chronological order of Henry's choosing of women. and while they don't Sl'l'm to have any relation to each 
plays lllll' lwll of an organ. "Anne Boleyn." purported to be the most ' 1t•autiful of Henry's wives <remember Anne of the Thousand Days?). is rPT)resented by tlw most beautiful and best th}t~~: work on the album. Introduced by a lazy nightclub piano. the song launches into a Yesian type rock sound and resolves into a very lwautiful first motif on piano. This is built up ,·pry cffectively through organ and \O­eals. n•stated over and over. makes a brief 

solo album 
disappearance into a second motif, and suddl'nly pops up again in a synthesizer's "t'll'ctric rubber band" sound. Fantastic! 
V;u·iations are made on the theme on the synthesizer· that produce a 1\are <for \\'akemanl and excellent jazz sound, and aftl'r a build-up to almost an orchestral ll'\'l'l. tlw themc drops back to solo piano for a l'l'w seconds. only to begin building up again. I\ quick peak and it moves very smoothly into a tradition hymn, "The Day Thou Gavest Lord Hath Ended," Wakeman style. with keyboarded vocals and piano cadenzas. on which the piece ends. 
"Catherine Parr" 
Tlw final piece, "Catherine Parr-," is like "/\nne of Cleves." in that is is basically a rock sound. easily as well done as the latter, "Catherine Parr" is content to take its time in unfolding its musical trappings. More influenced by the classical mode than "/\nne of Cleves," it commits some of the sanw errors as "/\nne:" a certain bogging down through sheer quantity of music. Parts are effective, however, especially a 
Recardint;~s 
joseph abel/ 
nlt'al and organ passage near the betinning and thc subsequent repeating of the main mot if through synthesizer. 
Tlw picce's ma.in triumph is its ability to n>ovc t•onsistently well through many dif­ferent styles and tempos. The !lass is never ~>lowpd until Wakeman wants it slowed ()ike the organ and synthesizer duet near the l'ndl, and the main theme ties the entirP piece together well by its cropping up throughout. Pspecially in its almost dirge­like tone at the end. 
Hick Wakeman has been an impressive kl'yboardman from his lead with the Strawbs to his introdm·tion as a type of "dl•coration'' in Yes to his becoming one of thl' main components of Yes. Finally. he has an album of his own and an impressive one it is. 
I\ & M terms the album ""nl' of tlw 
most eloquent and distinctive_ rl'll'asps 
this year." I agree. It will take a Ill'! I of an album to make me forget this one. 
The Six Wives of Henry VIII Rick Wakeman 
A & M SP4361 
ss.98 list 



re-flight 

Gene Clark says it all in the very first song: "Funny how the circle turns around, first you're up, then you're down again; though the circle takes what it may give, Pach time around, it makes it live again." I suppose that is as good a way as any to announce to the world that "the original Byrds" (which denotes the first 5 out of a tl;tal of 16 Byrdsl have gotten together for an album. and possibly one tour--depending on how fast McGuinn's broken arm heals. 
The album is on Asylum Records, not Columbia. and the group is technically called Clark, Hillman, Crosby, McGuinn, and Clarke. The album is shrewdly entitled "BYRDS." but would have been better 1it led "Re-flyte," because it is as instructive as a 1969 album of early Byrd tapes called "Pre-flyte," a witty play on words to cover the period before the original Byrds went in a thousand different directions and left McGuinn to find musicians, some com­
pl'tl'nt.  some  hacks.  to  hold  the Byrds  
together.  
Where the  Byrds went  

For anyone expecting to hear the Tam­houritw-Man type sound of the original B~Tds. there will be some disappointment, huttlwn again. if the Beatles reformed, who \\'ould Pxpect the gentle strains of "Love. lon• nw do?" What the album really does is to show where the original Byrds went when tlwy quit the Byrds <or. in the case of David Crosby. when McGuinn fired him and ha ndl'd him $10,000 in severance pay l. Each song is traceable to a period in the stormy Byrds' history and the eleven songs com­him• to write a tight little chapter in rock history. to show what bands grew out of the B~Tds and eventually died, and also to show t ha 1 sonw I hings never change--like the 

S.U. Social Commission 
presents 
FREE 


"HELLO DOLLY" 
Wed. Mar. 28th 
7:30 & 10 pm Eng. Aud. 
walt brown 

beautiful voice harmonies that the Byrds were once known for, and for Crosby's continued inability to solo his own material. 
"Full Circle" by Gene Clark starts the album. and is one of my favorite eight or nine cuts on the album. It is a geniune early Byrds' song: tight harmonies, 12-strong acoustic by Crosby and McGuinn. and ef­fective mandolin work by Hillman <who played bluegrass mandolin at age 17 in two bands--"The Hillmen" and the "Scottsville Squirrel-barkers." no typo. folks). before the Byrds. Hillman's mandolin is present throughout. and is just as enjoyable as it was at the recent Manassas concert. "Swl'et Mary" follows. with McGuinn on lead. again with 12-string and mandolin. and is a product of the McGuinn-Jacques Levy eombination in 1968 that produced "Chestnut Mare" and much of the Bvrds "Untitled" album. In all. there are 24 of these McGuinn-Levy songs, which were writ tPn for a musical. and 7 or !l are on wax and they're all good--including the latest. "Changing Heart" follows. with Gene Clark 
I<'Oil(illll<'d Oil pCl!'(' ()) 


4 

l• ~ 
l 
l 

,... 

. ~ I I
t t .·• 
1 ',; 

the observer Wednesday, March 21, 1973 

Film on auto emissions 

daan••bury 


presented byMarathon Oil
t:~arry trudeau 
by Bill Sohn 
Staff Reporter
HY 61?fJC/OU5, /)1/77.·~ 
soN. How'S 

Your Car and ... cleaner air, a 26 minute film on the technical, legal, l'nvironmental and health aspects of automobile emissions was presented yesterday at the Albert Pick Motel by the Marathon Oil Company. 
i\ecording to the new film, strides are being made in l'missions control that are often overlooked by the casual observer. 
The Marathon film said: "Looking at the emissions seoreboard of the early '70's, auto manufacturers have: 1) Pliminated the source of crankcase Pmissions; 2) reduced emissions fmm the tailpipe by an amazing 60 pl•n·ent; 3) l'liminated evaporation lossl'S from the carburator and fuel 
/,/$~ 6011A

,:;;NO YOU tank.
60.' orrc.rt
VU£/ArtN6 

The twt effect of this clean-up is 
IN THe r.v. Y/llfT OINNe.R' 
1 that present day cars have
\ 

('liminated approximately 70 p('n·enl of all the emissions that \\'Pre present in the passenger cars of tlw l'arly 1960's." 
Human health factors, the most important consideration, have lwen misconstrued according to till' film. The film went on to say the automobile is the biggest producer of carbon monoxide, but earbon monoxide, while lethal in !wavy eoncentration, is the least 


Byrds revisited 
( co11tinued from page 5) 

singing, and it's pure Dillard and 
Clark. the band which Clark and 
Px-Byrd Doug Dillard formed in 
191i8 to put down some of the best 
eountry-folk around. Clark's vocal 
here is different than the rest of 
this album. and fits perfectly with 
his part real. part falsetto voals on 
the Dillard and Clark albums. 
David Crosby follows with "For 
Free." a Joni Mitchell .>ong which 
is excellent. Crosby's early Byrd 
solos were always the album 
bumnwrs. but after McGuinn 
canned him. Crosby produced a 
eouple pf early Joni Mitchell 
albums. so he comes by this song 
honestly. The last song on side one 
is "Born to Rock 'n Roll," which is 
the state of McGuinn's head ill 
1972-3. It's probably the best song 
on the album--pure McGuinn, pure 
t•al'ly Byrds. and according to 
i\leGuinn. it's what the Byrds will 
Ill' doing more of. This cut will 
probably be the single, although 
McGuinn tried it with him own 
hand..·not the original 5--this 
summ.er, and it didn't happen. 
Side 2 starts with Hillman singing "Things Will Be Better," l'O-\\Tit ten by Hillman and Dallas Taylor. and the song is pure Flying Burrito Brothers. which is where Hillman hung out with several ex­ll~Tds from 1968 untill Manassas happt>ned. It's a competent song, _and reflective of the Burrito 
period, but Hillman has done better. Neil Young's "Cowgirl in the Sand"follows. with Gene Clark on vocal an~ harp. 1 suppose it's all right. but I like the original too much to like tnls one. David Crosby then sandwiches Jwo songs around "Borrowing Tiltle" by Chris Hillman and Joe Lala. The 1wo Crosby songs are typical Crosby solos of any period--early Byrds. CSN&Y. or his own solo l'ffort. and they bring the album down. "Borrowing Time," the Hillman-Lala collaboration, is as pure Manassas as the earlier Hillman song is pure Burrito. This one has typical Latin Steve Stills lieks,and is reminiscent of Judy Blue Eyes and so much else. The album Pnds on a great note--Neil Young's "See the Sky <About to Ha in)." Gene Clark on lead. It goes along beautifully for 2•12 minutes. then stops; by the time you reach for the needle, it starts up again. with McGuinn thun­dering out of both speakers on his very own Moo.g synthesizer--but 
it's a typical McGuinn goof-­because he's synthesizing an (')eclric 12-string, the Ricken­backer he made famous. 
The album thus reflects the delicate balance of personalities among CHCMC that drove them apart one by one. It's a tidy little serapbook of musical memories that comes along all too rarely. It. 

STUDENT TEACHING 
Any student eligible for Student Teaching during the fall semester 1973-7 4 should complete !application in Room 320 Madeleva, St. Mary's 
Application deadline · 
Friday March 32rd 
makes the early Byrds' albums look like emnarassing baby pic­tures. By now. Mike Clarke has finally learned to play the drums, Hillman went back to his first love, the mandolin. Gene Clark's vocals have improved <although they wt>re always good), and Crosby and McGuinn appeared together in public--a milestone in itseif. 
Tlw current Byrds, for anybody who eares. are McGuinn, Hillman, Lala. and Clarence White, the most eompetent musician ever to ·wear the Byrd label. If the CHCMC tour happens. it will mean some nights to remember. If not, this album will have to do. 
If 'you want to understand the album fully, look at the picture in the eenterfold--McGuinn eondescendingly looking down on his four dropouts and laughing to himself..since the album was named after McGuinn's band. He rpally was "born to rock 'n roll." 
Hyrds Gene Clark, Chris Hillman, David 
Crosby, Roger McGuinn, Michael 
Clarke 

Asylum 505058 
SS.98 list 

eoncern to human health of the tieulah's. l'ommon pollutants at present "Tiw automobile is responsible atmospheric levels. i'or lt>ss than len precent of 
Tlw level of carbon monoxide on poilu! ion · related health concern l'itv streets is one sixth the level of in tlw llniled Slates." the film ea;·bon monoxide in a cigarette stated. snwkt>r's lungs. In addition, the Tlw film was prduced by the automobile is far less a factor than Bowling Green State University ot hi:'r sources in producing Tl'll•vision Center and based on pollutants which are more 1\laralhon slide presentation en­hazardous to health --oxides of­titlt>d "Tiw Car and Emissions" nitrogen. sulfur fumes and par-

Attention Entertainment: 
Featuring: 

Paul Butterfield Better Days 
with Paul Butterfield on Harmonica and Piano 
Goeff Muldaur on Vocals Amos Garrett on Guitar Bill Rich on Bass Ronnie Barron on Keyboard Chris Parker on Drums 

Special Guest Star: 

Weather Report 
with Wayne Shorter on Sax Joe Zawinul on Piano 
Miro Vitous on Bass Alphonse Mouzon on Drums Airto Moreiro on Percussion 

IN CONCERT at Morris Civic Auditorium Sunday March 25 1973 Time: 7: 30; door opens at 6:30 
Tickets $5.00 Advance and $5.50 at the Door day of show. All seats reserved. 
Tickets are available at Morris Civic Auditorium box office between 11:00 a.m. and 5:00p.m. daily. brou[)hl to you by: Atomic Productions and Universal Weasel 

PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Main Bulldln1 

IJITERVIIWS POR WEEK OF HAilCR 26 
Intervtan are for aeoion and sraduate atudenu. stan-up echedulea are in R0011 207, Main Ju1ld1n&. Interview tt..lla IDUit be aelected and llgned for in peraon. Houn are 8:00 •-•~ to ~:00 P·•· each day. except Friday. The Place.ent H&m1al givea additional informetton resardin1 interview• and procedurea. 
IWI.26 Federal Co.auntcationa Ca..telion. 
BS, KS in I.E. Xer011: Corporation. All desreel and dilciplinee. 
HAll. 27 Prudential In1urance Co. All BBA. for Sale• and Sale• Mgt. Wallace Bueine.. Fonu. All BA and BBA tor Sale• Rep. 
MAR, 29 
!ffi:~r!::c:n~oH:ff~j~:~.~changed from l/28) 
J .. I. CaH CO!p!DY. 

BM in Acct. 
New York Archdtoceae, (Archdioceun Corp• ot Taacha·n). All dhcipltnu -Bachelor11 or highan. Phileo-Ford Corporation. 
liS ln !,!. and M.E. All BIIA. 
!llployer information. Alternative•. Teaching. Sur.er. 
Action/Peace Corpe/Vilta. Federal Service. 
Rooa 222, Acblinhtration BldB. 
3/15/73 

ANNOUNCING! 

he Observer has paid positions open in it' business departmen 
Assistant Business Manager 
-should be a business maior with accounting experience -will move to business manager's post 
ssistant Advertising Manager 
must be able to work from 10:00 to 5:00 daily (Mon. · Fri.) Applications and resumes should be submitted to Jerry Lutkus Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 or brou ht to The Observer office b Fri. Mar. 30. 
Wednesday, March 21, 1973 

Three mini-courses to be offered 
by Greg RowinsRi 
Staff Reporter 

Tlw Arts and Letters Student Advisory Council will prese~t eonsumer-oriented mini-courses m auto mechanics, taxes, and in­surance for the next six weeks. 
These mini-courses, geared pirmarily for Arts and Letters students are the brainchild of Council Chairman Neil Rosini. Guy Randles. a junior government major. has assumed directorship of the program and is coordinating its activities. 
The courses will fill a definite twed. according to Randles. "Most students don't know anything about these subjects," he suggested. 
Tlw courses will provide general knowledge to the layman to n•place the knowledge otherwise gained in the "school of hard knocks." 
All are free no-credit sessions, open to the public, and place no obligation on the participants to attend every one. All will be given in six sessions running from 6:30 to B p.m. 
"Rudiments of Auto Mechanics" will be daught by Mr. Dar Johnson, 
Sl'rvice  Manager  of  Romy  
Hammes  Fordland,  244  South  
Olive.  The  sessions  will  be  in  

l{oom 127 Nieuwland Hall on 
Wednesday. March 21, and on the next five Wednesday's. 
Part 1 of "Fundamentals of Taxes" will be presented by Professor William Slowey, a Certified Public Accountant, in Room 104 O'Shaughnessy Hall, on Monday. March 26, and on the next five Mondays. 
Part II of the series on insuracne will be delivered by Mr. Charles [{pedv. Notre Dame Insuracne Olfic~r. in Room 265 Nieuwland 'Hall. on Thursday, March 22, and tht• next four Thursdays. This \n·ek's topic is life insurance. 
Randles expects good response to all the talks, expecially the nne on auto mechanics, a subject about 
Flexible meal tickets not practical 
by Pattie Cooney Staff Reporter 

Flexible meal tickets allowing students to eat at locations other than the dining halls do not seem practical under the present meal system. 
The 1dea of flexible meal cards enabling Notre Dame students to Pal at St. 1\larv's or the Huddle involves crossing many lines of rl'sponsibility. 
"It would be like having a Sears charge card and trying to use it at Montgomery Wards," commented Mr. l<~dmm1d Price, Director of Food Services. 
Presently, students do not pay meal per meal because they miss about 30 per cent of them. They do not pay the same rate a visitor pays. (i.e.l $2.00 for dinners. 
"Any change in the present system requires a detailed study and long range planning. It is not something that can be rushed into", explained Price. 
The cost would rise if the Huddle or pay cafeteria drew money away from the dining hall operation. If as a result students were charged meal per meal there would be a 30 per cent increase in cost . 
There is also the problem of student attendance. It would be very hard to know who was eating where. if students could eat anywhere they wanted to. For instance the South Dining Hall could prepare food for 3,000 and have only 2.000 show up, thus creating a problem of excess surplus. 
It could work the other way, if people miss breakfast at the dining 
Guard beaten by thieves 
Security stops burglary 
by Michael Welby 
Staff Reporter 

Burglars hit Alumni Hall rooms last Wednesday night but Notre Dame Security guards prevented their escape with over $1500 in property. 
According to Security Director Arthur Pears, two black males wt•re observed by a security guard crossing D-2 parking lot carrying large white sacks. The guard called for assistance and then approached the pair, and was knocked to the ground and beaten when he attempted to search them. 
Two other security guards an­swerl'd the c'all for assistance andd saw 1 he two blacks running from 1he parking lot. The guards chased tht' blacks until they crossed . Juniper Hoad and disappeared into \he woods. The suspects got away. 
Tlw \hieves had dropped the 
while sacks during their flight and 
about $1500 in property was 
recovered. The bags contained 
t'\'l'rything from stereo equipment 
and liquor \o clothing. 
Pears is optimistic about cat­ching the robbers. "The two were not w<:>aring gloves and we were able to lift latent fingerprints from the stolen property," Pears ex­plained. 
Pears felt that the burglary was allowed by students through their negligence. During the vacation period. dormitory doors were checked by security guards every :lo minutes. 
"During the week," Pears said, "doors were found unlocked 75 limes. The hall was probably Pntered and burglarized at a time wlwn \he door was left open." 
Over \he break, the Alumni Club senior bar was also burglarized. A\ 7 a.m. on the first Saturday of tht' break, security guards found a hole through the front door where someone had thrown a large rock. 
Inside \he bar. the liquor closet had bPen forced open and $20 taken from \he cash register. The liquor closet was emptied before the bn•ak. so only the cash >vas lost. 
Four suspects. all black jm·t•niles from South Bend were apprehended just outside the bar. "This whole matter," Pears said, "has been referred to the Sheriff's Office and from there to the juvenile court." 

on campus today 
(continued .from page 2) 
7:30 pm lecture, "mon;essori and 
he phenomenological concepr of personati y developmen ", by dr. urban fleege, carroll hall, madeleva, smc 8:00pm--lecture, "bhagavad gi;a, by p. lal, calcu a india, lib. audt. 
8:00 pm--lecture, echnique of 
ransenden ial mediadon, ar­chtech. audt. 
9:00 pm--charisma ic prayer 
meeting, holy  cross  hall, open  o  
he  public.  in roduc ion  o  
charisma ic renewal,  8 pm  in  in  
bu ler bldg. behind holy cross  

8& 10 p.m.--movie, suac. "be ween ime imbuk u," eng. audit. 

THE BEACH BOYS 
Saturday March 31 Tickets: $5.50, 4.50, 3.00 Tickets on sale at Student Union & ACC Ticket Offices Some good seats still available. Don't Wait, Buy NOW! 
which lw feels that many students know little and want to know more. 
.Johnson. who has been in the car business for 28 years and who has been at Romy Hammes for 1112 years. was recommended by Hammes' President Jerry Hammes. The company expressed an interest in continuing the Pduca t ional program next semester if response is favorable. 
The talk on taxes is especially worthwhile with the federal in­come tax filing deadline nearing. Professor Slowey will run through the personal tax form and answer any questions. After the talk, he will recommend tax assistance firms to those interested. 
hall and decide to eat breakfast at 1~1e Huddle, where they might not be prepared for a large breakfast crowd. 
"If there were a centralized computer that could charge Pverything to the studetns' ac­counts. then the system might be feasible," said Price. Such a system would be more expensive for the students. 
"The University has the responsibility to see there are pmper controls for the student's protection and must be careful in adopting a new system. Complete change such as a flexible meal ticket system would take a year or two of planning, explained Price. 
So far the only change for next 
year is that girls living on the 
South Quad must eat in the South 
Dining Hall. and that girls living on 
the North Quad will eat in the 
North Dining Hall. 

turn<:>d out for the first insurance lalk before spring break. He dl'scribed Reedy as "a delightful lecturer who really knows his sluff." 

T NOTRE DAM 
Settle 
down 
to the 
natural 
one. Busch: 


GOOD SEATS ON MAIN FLOOR 
FOR SALE FOR THE PAUL 
BUTTERFIELD CONCERT AT 
MORRIS CIVIC THIS SUNDAY. 
FOR TICKETS OR IN­
FORMATION, CALL 8253. 
FOR SALE 
SONY TC 352·0 reel to reel tape deck, 3 head. excellent condition. S95. Coli Steve, 8407. 
For Sole: 2 Cl1icago train ride tickets Sot. Mor. 24 S.U. trip 510 <'o. Coli 8507 57 or offer l1 ·15 pm. 
For Sale Acoustic 134 omp. Cosino Concert P.A. system Best otter, oltcr 7 234 4547. 
For Sillc: 1970 Dodge Super Bee 383<'XIt cond. Muswt sell S1500or IJ<'St Clffer. Coli Sieve ot2187. 
For Sale: Wurlitzer Spinet Piano French Provincial. Cherry Wood. Call 272-3233. 
1965 Triumph TR4 37,000, li;•bortC'd, very sllorp. 272 6638. 
FOR INFORMATION ABOUT GAY AWARENESS COM MUNITY,CALL 7789W Tl1 F,B 10 
Prn. 
N<'l'd ride to Ooyton, Ohio f r·idoY 3 23. Sl1arc cxpC'nses. Coli Rill 1244. 
'63 DCldCJC' Dort, <Jood condition. runs W<'ll. Cilll 73.1 7792. 
... 
-



Phelps' cagers crumble UL, 79-71 
Irish ride Clay's shooting, tight defense into NIT semifinals 
by Jim Donaldson .John Shumate canned a jumper to take a lead into the Sports Editor after Clay's show to put Notre drPssing room, though, Ilame on lop 59-51 and Louisville leaping high to tip in an errant 
Notre Dame's Basketball team was unable to get closer than six Clay jumper with 20 seconds will he baek in South Bend this points the rest of the way. remaining. allt·rnoon. But it's not a cause for "We were elated with the win." It was Brokaw who helped Notre disappoinlmt>nt. Irish coach "Digger" Phelps said Dame off to its quick start, 
<ln tlw contrary, it'll be a happy afterwards. dropping in a layup off the opening hun('h of Irish cagers who'll return "We didn't want to run and shoot tap play. Shumate and Pete lo l"ampus for classes and tlwir with Louisville." Phelps said, "so Crotly also had hoops before Terry annual basketball banquet, with a Wt' started in a <1-2-2) zone to try Howard got Lousville on tlw board 7!1·71 NIT quarter-final round and control the tempo of the game. at 16:55. 'it·torv over Louis" ille. We figured we could stay with A Clay jumper made the scores-
I 
Shot;ting 57.6 percent from the them that way." 2. but baskets by Ken Bradley and lloor and getting double.figure Notre Dame's tactics bothered .Junior Bridgeman cut Notre snn·ing from all five starters, 1hl' Cardinals tht·oughout the Daml''s lead to two. Novak and !\ntn• llame moved past the game. but wer especially effective Shumate kept the Cardinals at hay C';1rdinals into Saturday af­at the outset. howl'Ver. and when Crotty put in a II'I'IJOon's semi-final against North The Irish lead almost all the first rPbound. Shumate made a three C'arolina. a 73-63 winner over half after jumping out to a 6-0 point play and lheslrish went up by \lassachuselts last night in advantage. They increased that nine. 25-14. i\l;ulison Square Garden. bulge to nine points midway After the teams traded a pair of 
Not l'l' Dame. which led by as 1hrough the session before baskets. Louisville began to chop 1nany as nine points early in the Louisville surged back. away at the lead. ).!.<lllH'. trailed by four points The Cardinals. who had been With Bridgeman showing the 
1n idway through the second half forced to shoot from the outside by way, the Cardinals outscored the and was lwhind. 51-50, when Guard Notre Damp's hustling defnese in Irish 13-4. Bill Butler's rebound 1h1 ight Clay came up with a hot the Parly going, began to bucket capped the surge and tied h;uHI and scored three straight pt•netratP inside toward the end of 1hP game. 31-31. 
llaskl'l s Io give the Irish a lead they 1hP half and rallied to tie thP score, Brokaw's hoop put the Irish on IH'I'Pr rpfinquished. :ll-31. with 45 seconds left to play. lop at halftime, but that slim \;ary Novak hit a free throw and Gary Brokaw enabled the Irish margin disappeared just seconds 
into thl' second session when Allen Murphy hit a jumper. 
Notre Dame regainc! its Iedwith a six-point sprint and Shumate sandwiched two baskets around ?
'Game... Mrs. Court' 
Brokaw two pointer. But" 
Dwight Clay's hot hand spelled Louisville's undoing last night in
I.ousiville answered that spree 
Madison Square Garden.
with a 10-point binge of its won. 
Bridgeman had two baskets and 
runner up lo Shumate for game Butler and Bridgeman paced
Butler. Murphy and Tim Cooper 
scoring honors. The big Irish Lousville offensivt>ly with 17The wePk was one for comebacks--some involving Notre Dame, some one apiece as the Cardinals moved forward made all nine floor shots points apiecp while Bradely had not: soml' successful, some not. in fron. 43-39. 
Ill' took and · finished with 19 15. and Murphy 10.
Las\ Saturday evening, in South Bend, the Irish hockey team was losing A three-point play by Brokaw points. Novak <7 of 13) had Hi Till' Cardinals finished the yeara heart-brl'aking 4-3 decision to Wisconsin in the finals of the WCHA stopped the Louisville surge points. Brokaw (7 of 14 l 15, and with a 23-7 record. The Irishplayoffs. and was temporarily erasing memories of a January-February and pulll'd the Irish to Crolly C5 of 11) 11. Overall are 17-11 goint into Saturday'ssurge which saw them battle back into title contention by winning 15 of within one. 43-42, but the Car­the Irish hit on 34 of 59 field goai gaml' with the Tar Heels who are their ~ast IR games.\ dinals kept ther lead until the attempts. 24-7. 
This past Saturday, in New York, the ND basketball team moved '1 :47 mark . when Novak sank a further and further away from its season -opening record of 1-6 by jumper from the free-throw line. shading Southern Cal, 69-65, in the first round of the NIT. The lead see-sawed hack and 
Tourna:ment tix, trip 
forth as Murphy hit for Louisville,
But on Thursday, in Richmond, Virginia, a different sort of comeback Brokaw connected for the Irishand The tickets --approximately 150
was taking place. Australia's Margaret Court, after losing the first game The Notre Dame basketball
Buller scored for he Cardinals. of them --will go on sale during the
of hl'r Virginia Slims International match with England's Penny Moor, team. by virtue of last night's 79-71
Then Clay look over. afternoon hours, and will sell for
rallied to defeat her opponent 6-1,6-0, and then delighted three near­win over Louisville, has moved
He hit a fifteen-foot jumper $2.50. A student ID must be
rapacity erowds at the Westwood Racquet Club by breezing to the into Saturday's semi-final round of 
to put Notre Dame on top to presented at the time of purchase.
tournament championship in almost matter-of-fact fashion. 1he National Invitional Tour­
stay around the 10:00 mark and Students desiring to purchaseThe Richmond v1ctory was a rewarding one for the 30-year old veteran nament.
followPd that up with another tickets in New York may do so atof Ihe women's tennis tour, but it only marked another step in Margaret jumpPr from the same range 30 ND's cagers will travel to ticket manager Don Bouffard'sCourt's return to international prominence--a return that began some secords later. Clay then stole the campus this afternoon--to take suite at the I<:ssex House Hotel, ormonths ago, when the Virginia Slims tour stopped in Newport for an ball and hooped a short pop shot part in their annual basketball at the Garden.
$18.000 tournament which featured some of the biggest names in women's and the Irish were on their way to banquet--and with the team will Astudent bus trip to New York is tennis. 
Yictory. eome a supply of tickets for the also being arranged. Those in­Mrs. Court competed in that tournament., and she won it-defeating, in Clay had 18 points, sinking six of Wl'Pkend's games in Madison IPrested should call1010 for furthersuceession. Rosemary Casals, Chris Evert, a~d .Billie Jean King. Court's 12 shots from the floor. and was Square Garden. details
Yietory was a stunning one; not only becauselof the .caliber of her com­petition. but also because she had returned to the women's tour only three and one-half weeks earlier, and was competing, really, in her first 
leers vvin post-season laurels
lop-flight event since the 1971 Wimbledon finals. 
Mrs. Court lost to Evonne Goolagong in that final-round series, and, shortly afterwards, left the tour because of pregnancy. But even after the For two members of the Notre Nil winger Ian Williams on tne "Ldtv" Smith led his sextet to a hirth of her child. many observers--Margaret Court included--were llanw hoekey-leam--left winger \\THA's second team. Mark 2:H4-i rpcord this season, and saw doubtful about a return to the international tournament circuit. EddiP Bumbacco and defenseman Kronholm. who appeared in 32 his dub t•aplure second place in 
"AI one stage." she remembered, "I though I wouldn't come back. Bill Nyrop--tlle week following the ganws in the Irish nets. was the tlw \\THA. and miss the NCAA This was just after I had the baby, because I nursed him for three months. \\THA playoffs was a bit less third-lt>ading vote-getter among playoffs by a single goal. I just didn't feel like tennis." But the game was always there, and Court Idisappointing than it might have tlw IPague's goalies. 
For his l'fforts. Smith waskepi aelive at it through her eighth month of pregnancy <"I played three, lwt>n. 

But il was Bumbacco who st>lt•ell'd by league coaches,1iml•s per week" l. Then, she did not play at all for a stretch of nearly four Bumhacco. a junior from Sault gt•nerated the biggest stir in the IWwspaJX•rnwn. and team captainsmonths. Stt•. i\laril'. Ontario. was selected post-s<•ason voting. The 5-11, 170-as l!l7:l \\'CHA Coach of the Year.
E\'l'nlually. !hough, she was Jured back into competition. "Once I got as a first-team forward on the pmmd<•r· t a IIied 90 points this
haek." she said. "I found I was enjoying playing. I...decided to give it a .\ nu•r·ican Hockey Coaches' "It ·s always nice lo receive an
s<•ason <on -t3 goals and 47 assists),
try for 12 months and see what happened. I guessi'mplaying more or less ,\ssodalion All-American team. honor like this." he said. "but it's a
and lwcanw the lop single-season 
hl•t•aus<' il was a challenge to me after I had the baby--seeing if I could and was also named lo a similar shanw 1his award is presented to
sl·on•r in WCHA history. He
rom<' hack and do w£'11." position-on thl' \\'l'stern Collegiate only tlllP pt>rson. Because every
shatlPI'l'd the record of 85 points.
Sine(' her comeback began, Margaret Court has done better than llot·kt•y Association's All-League member of our staff. our managing
which was sl'l in 1961 by Denver's.
"wt'll. .. Sill' has done spectacularly. She followed her upset at Newport I Pam. crew. our trainers and our players
.ll'tTy Walker. and he broke 11
hy finishing in the top four at the U.S. Open at Forest Hills, and then, just share equally in this honor. I'm
('Xisling Notre !lame marks.
hdon• th<' start of the 1973 Virginia Slims tour, she won seven straight :'\~Top. a junior from Edina. elated by my selection since I know 
\linn.. was rhosen hy the Coaches' thai these people are being
non-rirt·uit l'\'enls. including her 11th Australian championship. "I was honored by both awards." 
\ssociatinn as a firsl-ll'am All­
''l"m hitting the hall well." she said. "and I guess I'm moving pretty hl' said. "hut they don't mean quite ..D'eogl·l·ized for the jobs they have 
\ n:t•riean dl'fPnsenum. and joinPd
111'11 because m~· weight is down about seven pounds--to 140--from when I · 
as much now as thev would have if last pla~·ed. I am serving better than I ever have in my career." 11 t' had gom• to Bos.ton. E\'eryone 
In Hichmond. despite a lack of big-name opposition (an injury forced 11n till' IPam was keypd for it and it 1\illie .lt•an King to withdraw from the tourney, and Nancy Richey Gunter 1ras a lptdown not bPing able to \1 as upset in 1he quarterfinal round by Julie Heldman> Margaret Court's go . .L!anw was dose lo lop form. At 5-10, she's one of the larger women on the 
Bill N~Top. Nil's other All­
lour. but hr siw was no hinderance. She moved with stylish ease, served .\nHTiran. saw action in every oneaccurall'ly and powerfully. and played very effectively at both the 111" :'\otre llanw's :lR gamPs thisbaselirw and. the net. Her game is close to--if not at--the game which s('ason. lie notched 24 points1\·on h('r tlw women's Grand Slam <the singles titles of Wimbledon, the PI"Prall qhn•t• goals. 21 assists>.
\ "nill'd Stall's. France. and Australia> in 1970. 
;11HI sen red Ii \\TIL\ points dur;ing But ;\lar~arl't Court's most publicized game this year probably won't lht• ~·('ar. The Ci-2. 195-pounder('Oilll' a~a ins I EYonne Goolagong or Billie Jean King. It will come against ~'·""·iii!l!lllrt' 
spl'nl last spring as a quarterback

Bobhv H1ggs. a :'i5-vear old men's senior who wants to use the match to 
•o 

1111h tlw Irish football team. hut 
pro,.<; that women's professional tennis does not rate prize purses equal to ~~· rl'tunwd to horkey afl<•r spring!hose offered on the men's tour. Riggs has arranged the match as a prart it'(' and hPranw a mainslav of>:;to.OtHl. winner-take-all affair. but he may have asked for too much when ! •.A· rh. 
1111' :\I l dl'fense. . Ia• chali<'ngl'd Margaret Court. J ...... K 
1\ut th(• Irish players \n•ren't tlwlkcausP thP Court-Riggs match will be played in a matter of weeks, Iii... k...f 
Pllly llll'lllfl!'l'S of :'\)l's hockeyand h\· that time Margaret Court will be no longer coming back. By then 1 .... ~ '\i prograIll lo n•rl'i \'P post-season
she will have returned ·j 
1-"<ltlil' 1lwnhaccn n·t·ognil ion. Coach Charles IIi II 1\"_nop 
.. ----______________.
-· 













