.-------------------------------------------------------------~-~ 
On The Inside 
Security comparison 
...page 3 Concert review 
...page 5 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VIII, No. 14 Monday, September 24, 1973 
Brademas sees crisis in Watergate aftermath 
by Kurt Heinz and Fred Graver Staff Reporters 
Calling the issues represented by Watergate "daggers that drive at the heart of our free political institutions," Indiana third district Congressman John Brademas talked to approximately 150 -students on Watergate and its results. 
Brademas, who is now Assistant Majority Whip in the House, spoke for a half hour in the new Law School Student Lounge and then entertained questions. 
Brademas rejected the argument that Watergate is just another political crisis, but saw it as a fun· damental crisis "which has never happened before in this country." 
He viewed the Watergate break-in and the sub­sequent cover up as a calculated attempt to un­dermine the legitimate processes of the govern­ment. Brademas showed great displeasure in the administration's "preaching of law and order while people close to the highest office in the land resorted to spying, espionage, and other illegal activities." That, noted Brademas, was more disconcerting than the illegal money involved. 
Brademas was also upset with the Republicns 
moves to obtain and retain power by any means. 
"Questions of principles were at best secondary and at worse nonexistant in the last election," said Brademas. "'There was ·total lack of moral or ethical convictions." 
Brademas directed mnay of his remarks to the law students, who, to the surprise of Brademas, constituted a small minority of those in attendence. Many freshman humanities and government students attended the discussion. 
Despite the recent events of the past year, Brademas said he was not profoundly depressed by Watergate. It may, he added, save our system of constitutional government. 
Brademas talked of other strains betweeen the 
Congress and the President 
He cited the impounding of funds as a prime example. Brademas said that the President has refused to spend 17 billion dollars worth of funds which Congress has approporiated. 
"Around the country, his impound ment has been challenged in court 21 times and 20 of those times federal courts have ruled that his witholding of funds was illegal," said Brademas. 
He also hit at Nixon's sweeping interpretation of the doctorine of executive privelage. Brademas commented that "the President recently said that he would only withold Presidential tapes which he felt would hurt the national interest or security. 
"Yet he refused to release his tapes of con­versations with dairy industry leaders the day before he announced mild price supports would go into effect. Those leaders contributed heavily to his campaign. I cannot imagine how those con­versations could pertain to national security. They could show us a clear example of bribery which is ground for impeachment." 
Brademas also cited Nixon's statement that he 
would ignore a Supreme Court decision that was not 
definitive and his secretly bombing Cambodia as 
examples of the strain between Congress and the 
President. 
"In politics," said Brademas, "for a constructive 
effect, you must deal with comity and restraint with 
other institutions. The President'slack of comity is 
responsible for imposing strains on the system." 
Brademas said that there have been positive 
results in the struggle, which Watergate has been 
responsible for. 
Brademas commented that "were it not for 
Watergate, Congress would not have ended the war 
this summer." 
He noted the campaign reform bills, the rejection of Nixon nominees L. Partick Gray, Robert Morse and Godley, and the increase in Congressional overseas activities as positive results of the struggle. However, he expressed disappointment in Congress' failure to override Presidential vetoes. Brademas said he has seen no action from Nixon to alleviate the struggle and that Watergate ought to 
summon us back to equal separation of powers. 
The lecture was followed by a question and an­
swer session. The questions centered mainly on the 
effect of a weakened President on Congress, and effect of Watergate in relationship to domestic and international affairs. 
When asked how Watergate was going to affect the President and the Republican party, Brademas said that it had affected the entire country. Citing a series of Gallup polls, he showed support for the President to be down to 35 per cent presently; that Democrats, had elections been held last May would have gained up to fort· seats in the House of 
Representatives; and tLH the countrv now held an 
attitude of hostility and cynicism· towards all 
politicians whether Republican or Democrat. 
"Watergate is a wound that has burned deeply," he 
said. "The American people are hurt and scared by 
it. Many are embarrassed to the point of hesitating 
to bring their anguish and shame to the surface." 
The point was brought up that Congress is now riding on the weakened state of the Presidency, and have momentarily regained their powers. "In the future, though, under a less obnoxious President,'' it was asked, "Could they once again lose this control, and the attitudes of public apathy resurge?" 
Brademas stated that the role of Congress was to "always make life miserable for the President, in some matters, no matter what party they belong to. He remarked that the Congresf has a long way to go in eliciting first class thinkers to lead movements questioning the President. 
Congressman Brademas was asked how issues raised by Watergate have hurt the United States internationally. He replied that the issues have hurt us, both economically and politically. He cited the dollar devaluations and the problems Pres. Nixon is having with his upcoming European tour as examples. "I doubt if Queen Elizabeth would want him in Buckingham palace," he said. 
The fact that Americans did not take Watergate seriously at first was explained on two levels. "First, we were ignorant of what had happened," Brademas commented. "Itwas an effective cover­up. I also blame the press for not being questioning.'' 
"With the exception of two reporters for the Washington Post, "Brademas continued, "the press did nothing but accept the press releases from the White House." 
The second phenomenon was the fact that, "America didn't want to know." He said that the McGovern campaign in certain ways convinced people that there was no altemative to Nixon. 

Brademas elaborated on Nixon's attitudes toward 
the Supreme Court ruling on the Presidential tapes. 
"If the Supreme Court presents the ruling to the 
Presidentwithout any qualifications, such as in a 
letter which would say ... 'Give up the tapes', there 
would be no room for interpretation," he began. He 
then went on to state the complexity of the situation 
if an elaborate decision was handed down. 
As the questioning reached an end, Congressman Brademas centered on his criticisms of Richard Nixon. There are two points that he feels are his main criticisms. The first is that the President has condoned illegal acts during his campaign. The second is that these illegal acts were carried on outside of Constitutional lines. 
When asked about impeachment of the President, an action which he commented later was the only one that was being allowed the Congress by the President, he said: 
"I am a strict constructionalist. I do not agree with those who do not favor impeachment because after we lose Nixon we are left with Agnew. If the President or Vice Presdient is inncoent, I cannot vote to impeach him." 
"On the other hand," he continued, "If the President or Vice President is guilty, even though it as awkward both domestically and internationally, I have no honorable recourse but to impeach him." 
After the session was completed, the Observer spoke to Congressman Brademas about the character of President Nixon. 
"What I miss in the man," he said, "is some sort of framework of reference. You can't deal with him because you can't tell where he's coming from." 
He cited Gary Wills' book, "Nixon Agonistes", as an excellent depiction of Richard Nixon. In it, Brademas noted, the President is portrayed ,~ never having been his own man, but always act as he thought others wanted him to act. 


b~· Paul Young Starr Reporter 

A shuttle bus system for off campus students operated by student government, will begin October 1, said Student Body President Dennis Etienne and Vice-President Michael Geisinger in a recent Observer interview. Off campus bussing will continue on an experimental basis for the month of October. 
The shuttle bus will be operated at a cost of 10 cents per rider. "At least 1000 riders a day will be needed in order for the system to be financially practical," said Etienne. 
The shuttle will operate 5 days a week with a tentative time schedule of 7:30 to 10:30 a.m. and 
2:30 to 5:30 p.m. The exact bus route itself is still undetermined. The bus corporation to run the shuttle also has not been decided. 
Student government originally began this year with another project in mind: a bus shelter at the Grotto. Etienne and Geisinger 
said this would have provided a lighted, sheltered area for students waiting for the St. Mary's shuttle bus at night. According to the chages in the bus route, however, the shuttle bus no longer passes the Grotto after 6 p.m. Etienne concluded that a lighted area at the Grotto is no longer a necessity. 
Geisinger noted that if the shelter failed, a loss up to $5,000 would be incurred. Therefore Geisinger continued, Student government decided to back a safer project that appears to be of more value to the student at this time. 
Plans for the building of a bus shelter at the Grotto will be shelved for the time being. The plans are ready if the shelter becomes practical at some future date. 

TV movie bonanza slows down •••see page 5 
the observer Monday, September 24, 1973 

warld 
briefs 
By United Press International 
United Nations-Henry A. Kissinger, sworn in Saturday as the fiPst foreign-born secretary of state in the history of the United States, will make his first official appearance in his new role before the U.N. General Assembly Monday. 
WASHINGTON -Tte televised Senate Watergate hearings resume Monday with confessed conspirator 
E. Howard Hunt reportedly ready to testify that he believes former White House aide Charles W. Colson had prior knowledge of the Ellsberg break-in. 
A spokesman for the seven-member committee headed by Sen. Sam J. Ervin, D-N.D., said Hunt would be a "tran­sitional witness" as the investigation into 1972 presidential tactics moves to its so-called "dirty tricks" phase. 
WASHINGTON-Sen. Walter F. Mondale of Minnesota said Sunday he might runforthe 1976 Democratic presidential nomination. 
Mondale, one of a group of "new faces" generally regarded as possible 1976 contenders, was reported to have been on Sen. George S. McGovern's preliminary list of vice presidential possibilities last summer. 
an campus taday 
7pm & 10 pm ---film, shakespeare· "a midsummer night's dream,", admission free, engineering aud. 
Bpm --lecture, shirley chisholm, washington hall 



First Cinema'74 film set for this weekend 
Antonio's Red Desert will be the first movie presented by the Cinema '74 on Saturday and Sunday, September 29th and 30th. The movie is one of 30 to be shown throughout the entire year. Cinema '74, a sub-group of the Culture Arts Commission, is an organization which tries "to provide an articulate cultural experience for the Notre Dame community," according to Kip Anderson, head of the CAC. This year Kip hopes to "cover all the arts and to make the students aware of what the CAC has to offer." 
The movies, sponsored by the Cinema '74, are geared toward classical rather than con­temporary. Other films to be presented the first semester are: Shot Corridor, Lola, a festival of movie musicals includingFootlight Parade, Applause, Funny Face, Singing in the Rain, A Star Is Born, and Les Amants. Each movie will be shown twice on Saturdays and Sundays at 8:00 and 10:00 pm. . Patron tickets are $7.00 for this semester's previews or $1.00 for: one showing. They will be on sale today and Tuesday in the dining· hall. Tickets may also be pur­chased before each movie in the Engineering Auditorium. 
The Observer is publiShed dally during the college semester except vacations by the stuaents of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S8 per semester (Sl~ per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
465~. 


single speed 3 speed 5 speed 10 speed 

BICYCLE CLEARANCE 
reduced to warehouse prices 
I ES STARTING A 
$57.00 
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY 

compare...get the most for your money 
BICYCLE CENTER '1437 Portage ave. ph. 287-1623. 
Peron regains power 
•

Jn Argentine election 
by Diana Page Buenos Aires UPI 

Juan D. Peron piled up an un­beatable lead Sunday night to regain the Argentine presidency from which he was ousted by a military coup in 1955. 
Crowds of Peron supporters thronged the streets of Buenos Aires to celebrate the victory of their 77-year-i>ld leader and his 40­year-old third wife Isabel who ran on the same ticket as vice presidential candidate. 
Needing more than 50 per cent of the vote to avoid a runoff in the four-manrace, Peron ran ahead of that figure from the start. After results were nearly complete from the capital and other urban centers of strength for his three opponents, Peron's total began to increase with votes from the provinces. 
Official returns from 50 per cent of the polling places gave Peron and his Justicialist Liberation Front 3,630,128 votes or 58.5 per cent, Ricardo Balbin of the Radical Civic Union, 1,630.983 or 26.27 per cent, Francisco Manrique of a center-right coalition 835,635 or 
13.56 per cent and Juan Carlos Coral of the Socialist Workers party 104,762, or 1.68 per cent. 
A crowd of well-wishers gathered outside the official presidential residence in the Buenos Aires suburb of Olivos, where Person had gone from his private home to await the results. Current occupant of the residence is Raul A. Lastiri, head of the lower house of Congress acting as provisional president until inauguration of the new executive Oct. 12. 
Carloads of happy Peronists rode around the Plaza de Mayo in the center of Buenos Aires honking horns and chanting slogans, while several thousand celebrants on foot milled in the Plaza, scene of great rallies when Person was in power from 1946 to 1955, before being ousted by a military coup. 
While the voting was under way, Person took a calm view of the whole matter. 
"I'm so used to these things that 
don't feel anything," he told reporters. "There's no emotion in it for me-l don't get sad or hap­py." 
\oting was orderly on the sunny spring day in the southern hemisphere, although the turnout appeared somewhat lighter than the 85.2 per cent who voted in the last election March 11. 
The March election brought Person stand-in Hector J. Cam­pora to the presidency, since Person was barred from running by a residency requirement. 
The mi}itary government of President Alejandro Lenusse, which called the election to return Argentina to civilian rule, also set up the residency requirement. 
Peron returned to Argentina Jane 20, amid a welcome that turned into a gun battle between opposing factions among his followers. On July 13, Campora resigned the presidency to make way for Sunday's elections with Peron as a oarticipant. 
The time is NOW! There is no standing in line! There is no extra charge! 
With a Student Billing Card, 
residence hall people may make long 
d].stance telephone calls with the pri­
vacy of their own room phones and 
get an individual bill once a month. 
And you can take advantage of Direct Distance Dialing ... the mod­em way to call long distance, within Indiana or out of state. 
We'll mail you a Student Billing 
Card, if you'll call 234-5088. Or you 
can drop in at our Business Office at 
225 S. Main Street. Open 8 a.m. to 
5 p.m. Monday through Friday. 
@ Indiana Ben 

Mon~y, Septetn~:»r 24, 1973 the observer 
Security: how effectlve is it? 
by Gary AlUetto Staff Reporter 
First of three parts 

One of the most active, yet highly ignored, groups on camp­uses is the police force. Ask most college students what they think of their university security and the common reply is that they hadn't 
• even given the situation much thought. 
Public safety and security are becoming more important today as the rising tide of crime begins to flow onto the campuses. Educational communities are easy targets for theft and vandalism because of the need for ac­cessibility by students. Over the past several years, many universities have expanded old security programs or installed entirely new ones to upgrade protection for residents and faculty. 
The Observer polled five mid­west universities -Michigan, In­diana, Ohio State, Michigan State and Valparaiso -to get security and student opinions of the security situation and problems on their campuses. 
Security-University of Michigan 
Probably the smartest yet hardest way to control crime is to 
keep it from happening. As Mr. Fred Davids, Chief of Police at the University of Michigan, said "Prevention is the name of the game." 
Oddly enough, though, Michigan has no regular force of its own. The University relies on a twenty-five man unit from the city contract with Ann Arbor, the University employs the Burns International Protective Service to guard the more important of the 335 buildings around the school. 
The Ann Arbor police assign four officers on foot and five vehicles to patrol the campus at night, 
although Davids says that the unit is not always at full strength. Officers are radio~uipped and move randomly about a specified area. Radio-equipped Burns men 
patrol the buildings and call police for aid when trouble arises.In addition, Bums hires U. of M. students to bolster their own crews when necessary. 
Dorms at U. of M. provide their 

own security forces, a trend which several other colleges are following. Maintainence men and re~ired policemen often act as mght watchmen and radio to 
police for aid. 
Grand and petty theft are the most frequently committed crimes, Davids asserts. Bikes are a particular sore spot in this area. There is no official university registration at UM, but officials urge students to register their two-wheelers with the Ann Arbor police. In spite of advice and the rising number of thefts, usually bylocal youths, only about half the bikes on campus are registered. 
Drugs are a continuing problem. 

Last year, Ann Arbor instituted a $5 fine for possession of marijuana, a law which was repealed this past summer. Davids feels the law was un­constitutional because it interfered with a state law. Authorities often ignored the city law and arrested smokers on the basis of the state 
of Ann ArborPolice Department statute. This yearaction will be to patrol the 2.500 · acre campus. "control moving to prevention," Davids dislikes the idea and cites a h e predicts. study made by the International Students generally back the Association of Chiefs of Police to department and think the officers support him. ''The report are doing a good job. "Colonel recommends many of the changes Davids is a professional cop," says which I already proposed," he Chris Parks, co-editor of said. "Michigan Daily," the campus In addition to the $.5 million newspaper. 

The Morrissey Loan Fund works out of an office located in the basement of the LaFortune Student Center. The office is open from 11:15 A.M. to 12:15 
P.M. Monday thru Friday. Emergency loans are available up to $150.00 to all students and one has 30 days to pay the loan back with only a 1 percent interest charge for the use oftheFund's money. 
Who can I talk to about information concerning the Bridge Club? 
Your best bet is to get in touch with Norman Roos who's involved with setting up Bridge Club activit ies. You canreach him at 283-3695. 
How can one get information on the Flying Irish? 
The person who should be able to answer any of your questions concerning the Flying Irish is a guy by the nam~ of Cliff Malton who lives in 228 Holy Cross. You can contact him at 3156. 
How can one find out a fellow student's birthday? 
Depending on your reasons for needing that in­formation and your willingness to identify yourself, it is usually possible to find out a student's birthday from the Registrar's Office. However, if everyone decides to make a habit of finding out_other people's 
birthdays, it is likely that such information would no made available by the Registrar's Office. 
Therefore, you might try being clever and find out from a friend ofthe person in question when his or her bir­thday is. 
Parks seems to feel that the dorm residents could do a lot to prevent crime and aid the security force. . Parks also feels the 25 per cent mcreas~ reported ~rime is high. He attributes the rise to the fact that the on-i:ampus force is ur.­
dermann~. . . 
Security-Indiana University 
world." He admits the 1m­possibility of preventing drug usage. In controlling it, he says that outside the university borders, clrugs are illegal, so inside they are just as unlawful. Offenders are prosecuted, but not always to the fullness of the law. 
Security-Ohio State University . At Ohio State, the drug problem 
Lois Landis, a student at Indiana is approached from a different University thinks 1U police are angle. Hanna, believes the real "not very efficient." For example, offenders are the sources, not the she told of fifteen reported rapes users. His approach is to educate 

Observer lnshaht 
the people in their own residence halls and' aim at the pushers. He feels that so far his program is fairly well accepted. He also realizes that usage cannot be entirely removed so offenders must be sent to the prosecuters. He points out, however, that faculty as w· ell as students are often involved 
"Emphasis at OSU is shifting toward the protection of people more than property," says Hnna. At thirty-six he is one of the youngest major university security bosses. His young attitudes are reflected in his philosophy. 
(continued on page 7) 
last year. The problem just ballooned, Landis feels, because 

RETREAT
"it started with one, and others saw that he got away withit, and 
SPONSORED BY CAMPUS MINISTRY IN OLD
they got away with it ,too." Indiana University boasts the 
COLLEGE 

largest force in the Big Ten, says, Security Director George Hun­
Spend a weekend with 
tington. An eighty-one member department administers to thirty 
JohnDunne C.S.C. Sept. 28-30 thousand students on the two thousand acre campus. Also, one 
(Friday Eve through Sun. morn.) 
hundred and forty five buildings 
$5FEE REQUESTED-$30FWHICH ISA NON­
are under its responsibility. 
"Officers at the university are 
REFUNDABLE DEPOSIT 
chosen in the same manner as anyother Indian officer," noted 
Sign up in the Campus Ministry office 
Huntington . He prides himself, though, on the~=========================~ 
cadet program at the school. Any qualified student already enrolled can be sworn in as a peace officer and work from twelve to twenty hours a week. The program has about forty-five participants. 
Any full-time officer must complete six weeks of basic training before he can become a university policeman, however. 
Personnel in the department form five shifts of uniformed foot patrolmen and three motor patrols. In addition, there is a six-man investigative unit and a non-police guard staff occupies nine of eleven dorms at night. The majority of the officers are under thirty years old. All are sworn deputies of the county and carry sidearms along with a combination flashlight and mace. Huntington says his force is "entirely secure within the university" and does not rely on any outside help, although they occasionally assist the Bloomington police. 
Theft is the most common crime 
on campus and bikes are the fa ­vorite target. Even though bike registration is available, less than one percent of those on campus are logged.Mandatory registration is being considered for next year. 
When it comes to drugs, Hun­tington tells students "it's a real 
WELCOME 


NO!! 
Trv Our 
"Get Acquainted" Special 
r 


ROGER McGUINN 
(formerly of the Byrds) 
Special low prices: $4.50, 3.50, 2.50 
Tickets on sale tomorrow at Student Union Ticket Office (11­1, 3-5) and at the ACC Ticket Office (9-5). 


bringsthe besttoaletber 713 E. Jefferson 



r=:::~#:!l!ECiAr«,,~!~J~:"'J 
I Pitc.her Beer•••• $1.25 (must be 21)1 
~=~: Ste1n Beer •••.••••••$.25 :~:~ 
===:=:=:=:=:=:=:::xl;=c;:=;=o:r;:;;~;:::==s=~:":'la==;;=:::::o=;~=;:lr::::ro,::::;:;::::::::::=;::=:::::::::;::::::: 

.( t / 
THE OBSERVER 
~. AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER
I 
t 
f 
~ Art Ferranti Executive Editor 
' 
\ '~ 
t, 
~ lee Gentine ' Business Manager
'
"­
( 

( ( Boycott Gallo 
~ 
f, Boycott all Gallo wines. 
It's a very simple action to take in passing up a Gallo wine and buying another brand. In passing up that brand
~ of wine, you will be helping the members of the United Farm Workers in California who are presently fi~htin~ for their lives. 
t Last week, an Observer news story quoted an official of a New York group helping the farm workers as saying that Gallo has repeatedly rejected the idea of free union elections in the UFW­Teamsters impasse in California. Also, 

No Sense Trying 
When employees of Ohio Bell switching codes or the sound of coins Telephone Co. went on strike a while dropping in the slot and with the device back, they wore shirts that they called Moscow, Shanghai and 
> 'I 
r 
~ 
I 
), 
proclaimed "Ma Bell is a tough mother." Yesterday the old lady proved they were right. 
Four New York area youths were arrested for third degree burglary in a case where they defrauded the phone compnay out of an estimated $100,000. The youths had produced electronic devices that simulated long distance 
daanesbury 

Jerry lutkus Editor-in-Chief 
NEWS: 283-1715 EDITORIALS: 283-8661 BUSINESS: 283-7471 
Monday, September 24, 1973 
Buckingham Palace among others. 
Now, that's more severe than calling your HTH at Virginia Tech, but be reminded if you're looking for a way to rip off Ma Bell of a few dollars by cheating her on long distance calls, be careful. That type of action is a crime and if caught, you can be liable to prosecution as the four New York guys found out. 
-Jerry Lutkus 

raarry trudeau 
they have been siding with the Teamsters throughout the controversy over grape and lettuce picking contracts. 
Letters will soon be sent to all students urging them to unite in a campus-wide boycott of Gallo products. Join the boycott! Likewise, meetings will be held across campus to enlist volunteers to aid in the boycott. Make the time to pitch in. 
Remember, boycott Gallo products. 
That includes Spanada  and  all  of  the  
Boone's Farm wines.  
Jerry Lutkus  

Dan Barrett Executive Editor 
John Kloos Advertising Manager 
Miles Ta Cia ••• 


The Astro ·,( Apparition 
·ar 
" butc:h ward 
Despite all that's been said in the past few days about the gains 
realized by women as a result of Thursday's extravaganza in the 
Astrodome, all that still remains to be said is that it was a pretty 
lousy tennis match. 
Before the affair was staged last week, I made it known to some of my friends that I really hoped Billie Jean would defeat Geritol Bobby. Not because I hold any great admiration for Mrs. King, but simply because Bobby Riggs got off the track somewhere. 
He forgot it was a game. 
When Bobby was busy plugging for the idea that a man of 55 could still prove himself athletically, I respected him. But suddenly, he became a flaming symbol of male supremacy, and he had the audacity to use the age-old game of tennis as his proving ground. 
The only fortunate thing aout his loss is that we didn't have to be bored by the post-match oration I'm sure he had prepared. 
The tragedy of the whole affair is that we found that far too many women in America were as mistaken about the significance of the match as was Bobby. 
Picture millions of American blacks across this country declaring their supremacy over whites when Hank Aaron hits that 715th home run. They had their opportunity to use the sports arena as the same medium over 20 years ago when Jackie Robinson was leading his Dodgers to National League pennants. 
They also passed up that opportunity when Walt Frazier led the Knicks to an NBA title and when Willie Mays roamed unchallenged in center field at the Polo Grounds and Candlestick Park. 
Another one of America's traditionally oppressed groups ignored the chance to utilize athletics as an equalizing influence. Jim Thorpe established himself as one of the immortal performers in the history of the Olympics, yet America's Indians did not immediately demand a rematch somewhere in Montana. 
My intention is not to take anything away from Billie Jean King's performance. Without a doubt, she left the Astrodome the undisputed winner of the match. 
But any woman, or for that matter, any male who needed the out­come of that tennis match as an indicator of whether or not one sex is superior to another is a sad excuse for a member of their conglamorate, the human race 
The same men who sat glued to their televisions waiting for that tired master of the lob to renew their ho~ that they reign superior over their wives are the same men who feel blacks should catch a boat to Africa and that all Indians should be granted the right to pitch teepees on Alcatraz. 
And any woman who saw anything more than probably the finest 
female tennis player in the history of the game win a farcical match 
over an outspoken man are doing more to express feelings of in­
feriority than statements of equality. 
Would Rosemary Casals be willing to confirm the superiority of men if Bobby had won'? 
And that popular attitude of "we might as well rub it in because if Bobby Riggs had won he would have rubbed it in," is curious indeed. It's the same attitude we use to justify our involvement in wars. It's called an "eye for an eye" type attitude. ' 
Athletes traditionally have more class than that. Despite his arrogance, Muhammed Ali never used his crushing defeats over Chuvalo, Quarry, or Henry Miller as evidence of black supremacy. He claimed superiority as a boxer, not as a man. 
Billie Jean King upheld that classy tradition Thursday night when, 
after scoring the winning point of the final set, she approached Riggs, 
shook his hand, and left. That's all. 
If during the next few weeks she changes face and claims more than 
merely victory on the tennis court, I will be disappointed. If anyone 
was provoked sufficiently to "rub it in" it was Billie Jean. 
Billie Jean King is a great tennis player, a woman, and a good winner. Bobby Riggs is an old tennis player, a man, a hustler, and a quiet loser. Neither one is a Messiah. And the millions of American men and women apparently searching for one speak sadly of our past, and point up the need to clear up misunderstandings concerning sex roles in the future. 
But the millions of American women parading the King victory or the hoards of males complaining about a fluke are doing nothing to clear up those misunderstandings. 
It was only a tennis match, people. And not a very good one. 
the observer 
ISSUE STAFF 
Night Editor -Marlene Zloza Ass't. Night Editor -Bill Brink 
Compugraphic -Rob Steinmetz 
Typists-Diane Chermside, Howard Halle, 
Steve Roper Pictureless man -Jerome Copy Editor -Rick Thues Day Editor -Mary Janca Night Controller -Joe Abell 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-­
Monday, September 24, 1973 the observer 
5 
--~~~~~~~~--~~ 
•


berry: an even1ng of boogie 

The movies settle down this week by <"Mission: Impossible") who witnessed the presenting generally good entertainment crime in She Cried Murder tomorrow on 22. but not the great viewing of last week. The pilot for the new anthology series of the Kelly's Heroes will occupy two evening slots same name, Police Story is rerun tomorrow this Thursday and Friday on 22. Smacking on 16. Vic Morrow plays the head of The Dirty Dozen, we have Clint Eastwood troubleshooter of a special L.A.P.D. felony leading a group of moral degenerates to rob squad with Ed Asner ("Thll Mary Tyler a bank in World War II. Donald Sutherland Moore Show") as · Chuck
his toug~~s. and Don Rickles play the two head flunkies Connors plays the villain in ",his violent with Telly Savalas as their hapless drama. Joseph Wambaugh te this story. sergeant. Gavin MacLeod ("The Mary Incidentally, a four part adaptation of Tyler Moore Show") plays an explosives Wambaugh's The Blue Knight starring expert and Carroll O'Connor plays his usual William Holden will be featured on the show pre-Archi Bunker typecast role of a general. later this season. 
It even has a classic sequence of a hilarious western-type showdown with a tank. The smile! movie, of course, has absolutely no redeeming social value but it is a nice way "Candid Camera" aficionados will get a to blow four hours if you have those hours to bang out of AllenFunt 'sSmile When You Say spare. "I Do" tomorrow on ABC. This one has the 
undercover camera spying on marriage
spies and suspense 
rituals and other related topics in this country. Finally, David Janssen and 
George Peppard fans will enjoy The Keenen Wynn star in Hijack Wednesday. Groundstar Conspiracy tonight. He goes They play a pair of truck drivers hauling many steps colder than his 'Banacek" role some unknown Government cargo with a as a ruthless and relentless spy catcher with few killers after it, too. the result being a terrifying portrait of suspense and drama. He goes after a rock and roll saboteur and his cronies using more bugs and secret cameras than the plumbers at 
Specials and Sports: The Game of theWatergate. Incidentally, the female in­Week tonight has the Cowboys tryingterest is played by Christine Belford who to corral the Saints on ABC. Old music fans played a rival insurance investigator in the will delight in "The Rock and Roll Years""Banacek" pilot and who will return this Thursday on 28. Dick Clark hosts a numberseason on the show as the Boston-based of the recording stars of a decade or twosleuth's more or less steady girlfriend. You ago. Even Sonny and Cher get into the actcan spy on him on 16. 
with their normal Wednesday show as they trace their beginnings with recording artists 
$ 
of the mid-sixties (even Ed Byrnes of "77 
Dollars (or$ as the promotion ads call it> Sunset Srip" fame). Bob Hope kicks off his premieres this Saturday with Warren first special of the year Wednesday, also Bea tty trying to both pull off the heist of a with Ann-Margret and Bobby Riggs. It was bank and to pull of this movie. He even has filmed after the match. "Faraday and Goldie Hawn on hand to help him but the Company" premieres immediately after inevitable result is a tongue-in-eheek quasi­Hope on the "NBC Wednesday Mystery comedy that needs a snow chase in the end Movie". Also premiering this week "The to help you forget the two hours before. New Temperatures Rising", "Bob and Carol NBC takes the blame for airing this one. and Ted and Alice" ,and "Griff". "Kung Fu" The "ABC Suspense Movie" premieres also begins a new season this Thursday. this Saturday one half hour before the NBC "The ABC Wide World of Entertainment" film. For its first showing, Ben Johnson, Ed has the Miss World-USA beauty pageant :'llelson, and Vera Miles amo~ others star in tomorrow night and Alan King at the In­Runaway. A train's brakes do not hold on a diana State Fair Wednesday and Thursday s~iing trip ~tnd the result just might keep nights. Friday is "In Concert". ile viewer enthralled as Duf'l did. But, Trivia Question: Name the closest town because it ismade-for-TV, I have not seen it to these TV Western ranches; a. the Pon­and my remarks are only educated ('!) derosa, b. the Barkeley ranch, c. the High guesses . Chaparral, d. Shiloh and e. name the valley 
Also on the made-for-TV slots, Telly the Lancer ranch was situated in. Savalas, who will play good-90y cop 
· .\aneA U!nbeor
"Kojak" in a few weeks, assumes the role of Uf!S 3lfl ·a 'M.Og 3U!;)!J>3W ·p 'UOS;)DJ. ";)
a murdering cop chasing Lynda Day George 
'UOlll:lOlS ·q 'Al!:) UOS.XB:) ·e :Z!nO Ol J<Jh\SUV 
Four long-haired hippie types walked on stage claiming Chicago as their home town and sounding like a watered down J. Geils. The audience seemed to heave a sigh of disappointment at the anachronism. Finishing with a "boogie-tune" Conqueror Worm received a withheld ovation for their musicianship. As Conqueror Worm stepped into the backround five middle-aged men danced on stage. Clad in matching blue suits they did a short comic routine and announced their first song. With an unex­pected burst of professionalism Conqueror Worm became part of a 50's legend. The Coasters were singing "Yakity Yak" and the crowd was on its feet. 
The Coasters 
Everyone in the ACC, last Saturday night, was immediately transported back to the days of the Clovers, Archie Bell and the Drells, the girl next door and drinking Cokes at the Soda Shoppe. 
Singing songs like "Poison Ivy," "Zing went the Strings of my Heart," and "Love Potion No. 9" the Coasters controlled the mood of the audience at will. 
As a final tribute to these five "middle­aged" men the audiance greeted "Charley Brown" with a burst of uninhibited nostalgia. Spontaneous dancing and singing filled the ACC. The Coasters were more than a fitting prelude to Chuck Berry. They were a pleasant reminder of what en­tertainment is really like. 
screaming and dancing 
What of the oddly-humble, lanky guitar player whose name was on everyone's ticket stub? Chuck Berry's name had on:/ to oe mentioned and the stage was immediately surrounded by 1000 screaming and dancing fanatics. 
Working closely with each member of Conqueror Worm, Berry "warmed up" tothe 
r. thomas thues 
tune of "Roll Over Beethoven." Two songs 
and 6000 clapping hands later the King of 
Rock and Roll said he was ready to start his 
concert. "duck walking" across the stage 
with his guitar between hb ~egs, Berry led 
thecrowd in the singing of .Vlaybellene." 
Hocking and rolling through one million­
seller after another, the King brought the 
ACC to a climax of hysteria. 
bleeding blues 
Able to change moods with a single strum 
of his guitar, the Rock and Roll pioneer 
drifted easily into a a bleeding blues 
requiem in the style of his teacher, Muddy 
Waters. After his blues song Berry ex­
pressed his sensitivity to the problems of 
youth and the times by saying, "I hate to 
sing the blues, but there's alot of that 
around." The audience, which had seated 
itself for the blues rendition, sent up a cheer 
of thanks to Berry's sensitivity. 
The members of Conqueror Worm 
reflected the true professionalism of Chuck 
Berry with intermediate bursts of spotlight 
musicianship If Berry didn't like the way a 
song ended he dit it over until it was right.
t>:• the end of the concert the back-up group 
had become an integral part of the Master 
himself. 
Johnny B. Goode 
The climax of audience involvement 
occuredduring "Johnny B. Goode," Berry's 
closing song. Berry let the audiance sing 
half of "Johnny B. Goode" by itself. It was 
truely a tribute to the legend which is Chuck 
Berry. 
Reflecting on this review, I note a touch of 
bids. Perhaps that's because I found myself standing on my chair, rocking _and rolling and dancingaround the stage w1th lhe rest of the crowd. It seems only fitting that one think of Boog1e, dancing in the aisles, and rock and roll when he hears the name Chuck Berry, King of Rock and Roll. 

tha observer Mondn, September 24, 1973
6 
Placements NJghts attract many 

by Mark Derbelmer Staff Reporter 
Placement Nights, the first phase of Placement Bureau ac­tivi~s were "highly successful" according to Richard Willemin, Director of the Placement Bureau. The second phase, Open House at the Bureau, will start today at 1:30 pm. 
Placement Nights were held on Tuesday and Wednesday of last week in the Engineering auditorium. Willemin estimates that over 500 Arts and Letters and Business students attended Tuesday's session, with over 350 Science and Engineering majors participating in Wednesday's program. 
Each night Placement manuals were distributed followed by demonstrations of interview techniques used by recruiters from Sears (on Tuesday), Firestone and Bendix <on Wednesday). Willemin thought "the response was over­whelmingly favorable to the expert employer recruiters." The 
students, are invited.
. c Sl.Zl.ng system Thepur~oseoftheOpenJ:Iouseis WEDNESDAY
IDetrl to acquamt students w1th the 1 d · d · k 
1 

Wine industry tries 
By RICHARD M. HARNETT SAN FRANCISCO <UPI) ­
Th A · · d 
e mencan wme in us try is 
planning to go metric, which means that the ~diti~al 
"fifth" will become three-
quarters of a liter-and the 
familiar half gallon and· gallon 
will disappear entirely. 
If the tentative agreement now worked out with the major European wine producing coun­tries is put into effect, the 24­
ounce bottle and many other odd sizes would be eliminated from international trade. There would be only seven accepted
sizes, all based on the liter. American wine ;s bottled in quarts, and it is not expected that much will be sold in iiter­
size bottles under the metri'c 
system. 
~~9nsw~~ff~po~
ed wine in a restaurant usually do not know that they are getting a 24-ounce bottle instead of the 25.6 bottle they would get if they ordered an American "fifth." In buying a case of foreign wine, this is equivalent to one less bottle per case. 
The change to metric wine "involves a little retooling" by 
U.S. wineries, said 
Attorney Jefferson Peyser representative for American win~ makers. 
Chess tourney registration set 
Registration begins today for the second annual Observer-Chess Club Chess T Tournament which will be'held Friday, Saturday and Sunday. All entries will be taken in The Observer office from 1 to 4 
p.m. Registraction closes at 4 p.m. Thursday. 
A $2 fee will be charged of all participants and should be turned in upon registration. 
The tournament will begin Friday evening, run all day Saturday and have its cham-
New members are beingsought for guitar society 
Persons interested in joining the 
newly-organized South Bend 
Classical Guitar Society can 
contact club president Richard 
Wisner at Mendoza's Record Shop, 
241 Dixie Way North, Roseland, or 
by calling 272-7510. 
The society, formed last 
spring, meets the last Sunday of 
each month in room 242 
O'Shaughessy at 7 pm. 
Students interested in sttending 
are asked to bring their guitars for 
group participation. 
pionship rounds Sunday. Trophies will be awarded to the top four finishers along with a cash prize. The prize will be a percentage of the entry fees collected. 
All tournament action will take place in LaFortune Student Center. 
Last year's tournament drew over 80 participants, but Chess Club organizer Steve Osborne does not expect quite that many ap­plicants this year. 
Watch The Observer for more tournament news. 


)H>\R1lft\ is an.exquisite
movie:· 


PANDORA'S BOOKS 
*great autumn sale* I 
Sept. 24-3) 
regular 
Diane Arbus  $15.00  
Buried Alive  7.95  
Breakfast of Champions  7.95  
Kesey's Garage Sale  3.95  

sale price 
$8.50 
4.95 
4.95 
2.00 
So come and :>ee us at 602 N. St. Louis (at S. Bend Ave.) from noon to 9pm., Monday thru Saturday, 9 to 7:30 Sunday 
During the Open House seniors interest on the part of those in­large turnout indicates "alot of 
who have not yet picked up terested in jobs after school," 
Placement manuals may do so stated the Placement Director. 
upon presentation of their green Willemin was so encouraged by 
computer card. the success of the two evenings Those seniors who already have that he is considering repeating the 
their manuals may officially register with the Bureau by tur­program next semester, and will probably organize an all day affair 
ning in a complete profile form. where all students could learn Registered seniors will then about recruitment and career 
receive a free copy of the 1974 Placement Annual, a 454 page book listing U.S. employers. 
At the Open House students may sign up for the interviews which take place the week of October 8 through 12. Students may also 'sign up for the Alumni Placement Summer Job Program which finds summer employment for un­dergraduates through the geographic alumni clubs. 
opportunities. The Placement Bureau will have MONDAY Open House Monday through T f b 
Thursdayofthisweekfrom 1:30to · V. oot all kickoff 8-9 draft beer 25' 4:30pm. All students and faculty TUESDAY 
of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, especially seniors and graduate pool tournament 
Bur~au's staff, pr!>Cedures, in-a leS nn S /2 price after 8 p.m. 
terviewrooms,andsignupsheets. THE RED DOOR CLUB 
The Bureau is located on the
second floor of the Administration 
11 0% N. Main 
;B~u~il~d~~~g~·---------~========~~=~~~~=========~ 

Buythe BSR 710 or810. 

Either way you'll get the shaft. 
The BSR 810 and 710 have their brains in their shaft. A carefully machined metal rod holding eight precision-molded cams. When the cam shaft turns, the cams make things happen. A lock is released, an arm raises and swings, a record drops, a platter starts spinning, the arm is lowered, the arm stops, the arm raises again, it swings back, another record is dropped onto the platter. the arm is lowered again, and so on, for as many hours as you like. 
Deluxe turntab1es from other companies do much the same thing, but they use many more parts-scads of separate swinging arms, gears, plates, and springs-in an arrange­ment that is not nearly as mechanically elegant, or as quiet or reliable; that produces considerably more vibration, and is much more susceptible to mechanical shock than the BSR sequential cam shaft system. 
When you buy a turntable, make sure you get the shaft. The BSR 710 and 810. From the world's largest manufacturer of automatic .urntables. 





mrnm 
BSR (USA) ltd.. -Blauvelt,NewYork10913 
.J 
Monday, September 24, 1973 the observer 
7 
Reorganization ol department 
Yoder to head non-violence program 
by Ken Bradford Staff Reporter 
Dr. John Yoder of the Notre Dame theology department has been named chairman of the Program of Non-Violence <PNV) committee at Notre Dame. Dr. Basil O'Leary of the economy department will act as secretary to the committee. 
The program's goal, according to Dr. Yoder, is to find the pattern and program for the non-violent resolution of human conflict. He pointed to the works of· Gandhi, King and Chavez as being "representative of those con­cerns." Dr. Frederick Crosson, 
dean of the College of Arts and Letters, sees the importance of the program as an "inquiry into the ways of resolving conflict by peaceful means." 
Between forty and fifty students are currently taking courses in the PNV. Courses are offered only as electives and no major is available through the program. 
In addition to the curricular offerings, the PNV, according to Dr. Yoder, will attempt to gather students and faculty interested in non-violence to share ideas and join in some kind of community service. Dr. Yoder mentioned the possibility of working with the South Bend Human Relations Department and at racially troubled high schools in the area, as well as"sponsoring lectures and evening programs. 
The PNV was introduced at Notre Dame in the spring of 1969, the result of a suggestion by student leaders. A $100,000 gift from the Gulf Oil Corporation founded the program through its first years. In the first three years of the program, 1,886 students chose courses in non-violence. 
At the end of three years, the PNV was evaluated to determine its future. This semester, the PNV offers only three coursesZ: "In­troduction to Non-Violence," taught by Dr. Yoder; "Seminar in Non-Violence," taught by Dr. O'Leary; and "Conflict Resolution," a sociology-related course taught by Clagett Smith. 
During the first three years, the PNV employed a full-time director and an assistant. The reorganization of the program calls for the professors to be selected from other departments in the college. 
Father James T. Burtchaell, campus provost, stated, "It has been our hope that the Gulf grant would be used to initiate a new program that would survive the end ofoutside funding by creating a 
Security systelJls are compared 
(continued from page 3) 
"Law enforcement is part of the educative process. Students are responsible adults and sooner or later must take on these respon­sibilities." 
Ohio State University ap­
propriates a million dollars a year 
for its department of public safety. 
The department serves forty-seven 
thousand students and is 
responsible for one hundred and 
eighty-seven buildings, five 
hospitals and an airport. Also, fif­
fty-thousand motor vehicles are 
registered with the school. 
Donald Hanna, the security 
director, feels that tbe campus is 
designed for motor vehicles. Any 
building is accessible by car. 
However, in the future he would 
like to see a closed main campus. 
The staff of the department is 
broken down into two categories, 
administrative services and 
operations. Under services, 
there are several divisions in­
cluding-a three-man investigative 
squad and a support unit. In 
operations, there are three wat­
ches with watch commanders, 
involving fifty officers. To bring 
the department closer to the 
public, a division for community 
relations was created. 
On the average, a Public Safety 
officer is twenty-nine years old and 
has two and a half years of 
college, although four officers 
have masters degrees. He is 
dressed in traditional police attire 
and carries a sidearm. Students 
are used on a part time basis, 
mainly in campus parking areas. 
Most universities try to move 
away from the "night watchman" 
form of protection and OSU is no 
different. On an average shift they 
use two or three foot patrols and 
five of their fifteen available motor 
vehicles. All patrols are in three 
way radio communication with a 
dispatcher and other patrols. 
Roving patrols are more necessary 
at Ohio State because the main 
campus is located in a high crime 
rate section of Columbus. About 
sixty-five percent of all crimes on 
campus are committed by non­
university persons. Between 
twenty and twenty-five per cent of 
the cases are successfully 
solved, which is consistent with the 
national average. 
Janet Post, a junior at OSU, 
believes that protection is as 
adequate as possible. She feels 
that improvements such a s better 
lighting would make the campus 
safer. As to the police themselves, 
she says that "too much emphasis 
is put on the fact that students need 
controlling ... there is a lack of 
communication ... one side needs 
to look at the other more closely." 
Security-Michigan State 
Good communication may be what Michigan State has in mind when they recruit for theii: campus police. Beside passing the usual physical and mental exam, the prospect must have at least two years of college and be committed to getting his degree. Presently, there are thirty degreed personnel on a staff which averages twenty­
eight years q_ld. 
One difficulty with such a young staff is the alleged use of student informers. Mike Fox, a student at MSU, says the policy creates unrest among the students. He believes the practice is now on the decline and that police are becoming more responsive to stu­
dent needs. 
An average shift on the fifty­seven hundred acre campus utilizes fifteen men on foot and in eight motor vehicles. More than four hundred buildings have to be patrolled along .with thirty­thousand cars on campus. As an added precaution, all dorms are looked every night frommidnightto six. 
As with other campuses, theft is the major offense. However, MSU security shows a recovery 
Referral division 
offering aid for 
legal problems, 
Students with a legal problem are urged to contact the University Referral division of legal aid. Office hours are 1 -4:30 pm Monday through Friday in the legal aid office located in the far left corner of the ground floor of the law building. The temporary phone number for an appointment is 283-7795. 
phmning n \\t'tlding? 
eall 234-5822 \\t>ddiRl'Pholc~rnpln 
~ MICHAEL LONER 
~"=-~ 
rate of almost thirty per cent in which sixty per cent of the criminals have no association with the university. Burnett sees a huge problem with bikes.Mandatory registration at fifty cents per bike shows that over fifteen thousand are kept on campus. Last year, sixty-thousand worth of bikes were taken, supposedly by non­university people. 
Security-Valparaiso • University 
Life on major college campuses is different from that of smaller colleges. As Mitchell Robuck, director of security at Valparaiso, says, "The more volume there is, the more activity." 
Police forces on the larger campuses must be larger, better equipped and more active. They must be prepared to handle more diverse types of situations. The trend toward younger officers is a step toward more efficiency, and a better student-police relationship. 



PLACEMENT BUREAU 
•t•oWUOio M• o~n• 
'" ••Y,•»• • 
/ftl....vl"'' U• 'nr '""'"'" -••· "-<• 01-1• ''1"'­M-I•o OH I~-:"". "101• -.ni<U.... l~l"'"'""' 11­-..u L _.,..,,...-.,...,.~ '"' 1• ,..,__ ....._.., •f ,.,._ 
,.,... •• lloo· ,,...,,_.,, .......~ '~-· _..._ •f ---n ,._, ·•·~-..,-1·• v11' ~. •••lh~l~ ·,,, ••~••'¥ ,,._ 1:10 
_,., w. ,.,_.,. ••• • .....,noln. flo,ooPlo•-• 
,,...,,, ••-' .u•••r l•••rvt...,... 

•MI f,..,...,,,.., 
~-..., ..... """I.W,I"I~OI.P.­N,r, 
!:"-:':~-..~.··:.r 'lit"!:.~':"~:~­~..;.~-: ... -...........,11.•·. ~~:.:·;:;;!J;.,, .. ~~ !W~·:._.oa:;-· ,._..,. 
""'~' .....,.., r~.,.. -..... I• "'·"" ... ~ .. 1 r. ,.,. • • 
~D.~~r.;:...'!....~... ,·-·-·· i't:-~.~~·~.::oo:::-.:.~·:.:· -~ ...~ 
11
"7iz1nJ Hif:"'...:i:'.c:r;.;:•-..:.a. ..u,....,.,, 
..,, "''. -k~··-~·· .... ,. ~-. ~.... Ch.'. 
t..T.II lrtmiC"<po•taiL·"' A.., Mcko..-'""' "'""" 1<.,,.,.,_. '" ... •~•­
-"'"c""l;..,....•. 
IMI~I'CU,,TIR-·•· .... , •. lt•• .,N...........,r.l.n. 
~~ ...~~ o•<-U.. ~~l~<Mtt ...... Tu..lo&a•. -·· M<&..,,_• ou·..,l'f•ou. t ..... ul ~,... .....
_,,,..,_,,.,.u•u-••..... 
T PI presents in concert 
from England 

SLADE 
also 

KING CRIMSON 
SUNDAY SEPTEMBER 30, 8 pm Morris Civic Auditorium, 211 N. Michigan Ave. Downtown South Bend Advance Tickets $5.00 
corps of faculty in existing departments able to continue teaching and research in this important area of non-violence studies. 
Dr. Yoder, who did graduate work in theology in Basil, Swit­zerland, has also served as con­sultant for the World Council of Churches on Violence, Non­Violence, and the Struggle for Social Justice.\ 
Dr. O'Leary, who has been with PNV since 1970, spent a year in prison after burning draft files with the "Milwaukee 14" in 1968 

-i 
.. 
..
_ 
8 the observer Monday, September 24, 1973 




Memories fade as ND romps. 44-0 


by Vic Dorr a long time since the Orange Bowl margin to 16-Q with time still 
Sports Editor last January, and we lived with remaining in the first period. 
that thought uppermost in our Clements, who passed 12 times 
Northwestern's Wildcats came minds all during the winter, during the game and completed into Notre Dame Stadium spring, and summer What you saw nine for 152 yards, set up his touch­Saturday with a new coach, a new today shows just how badly our down toss with a 23-yard com­reputation, and with new uniforms. kids wanted to erase the memory pletion which Demmerle carried to 
They came with a 1-o record, last of last January 1st." the Northwestern 22. The junior year's Big Ten passing champion, During the first half of their quarterbac_k also rushed ~ree and a stable of highly-touted clash with Johnny Pont's Wildcats, times for f1ve yards and a pair of running backs. They came to play the Irish must have felt very badly touchdowns, but he was unable_ to Ara Parseghian 's tenth Notre about the stigma of the orange l~ng savor the season-<>perung it' ' '' ,. Dame football team, and they Bowl. Notre Dame's offense came v1ctory. _,A '""( 
~~:;~r~~~i~~ t:t~~:ghe;~~~ ~~a~! ~ss:s~i~~-~;~~~ af~;rn:n. f~~~ aff~:~:~:::.st~~~hi~~~~~~t~:~ ii~;~~ ~\ ' t~ .· 
;!~;~:;;7:~~~~:!~;,r.:? ~~FJ~~~~rJ~~~~~:*§ ~:E::§.~~}f;~~!~~~Th: ,__··-_•--..-.·-.--.-_--_-"··~-,,-_---_,'_·:_~ ··~ ·~~\.. · 
size and speed, ignored the touchdowns the next five times it sister, left at once for their home in · ·· Wildcats' impressive credentials had the ball. McKee's Rocks, Pa. ·% •'·~. .. . ~· . , and took a big step towards erasing Sophomore tailback Art Best But before the news of his '"} 
~~~: oU:~Ie~~an~es~:~~~iesNo~~ ;;~t~~a~~~~ ~~0~et~i~siw~~~~~ !~~e;·~ro~at~e fo~~~~~ r~~e~h~ __,_·_----.--.• __·,_:_"L·~-.--.·_··.=.·_:_-_·_.·-.·---_·. > 1

~_--.·~···,•
.• ___.·-_··.i·l·
thwestern. 44-0, before a stadium and Bob Thomas' placement put cool. commanding young man had ''· sellout crowd. the Irish in front, 9-0. A nine-yard played, perhaps, the best game of 

"It's certainly good to get that pass from quarterback Tom his Notre Dame career. first game under our belt," Clements to wide receiver Pete Following Clements' touchdown If. beamed the Irish coach. "It's been Demmerle padded Notre Dame's pass to· Demmerle, freshman ;;) .· 
Greg Corgan:::::::::::,:,:,:,:,:,::=====================================================================':::,:'=:=·= ~=~~~:A~e bl~~~~d ~ut~~~th!~~f~~~ -• punt, giving Notre Dame possession on the Wildcat 49. 
Ross Browner confronts Dave Skarin. Browner blocked a punt for
From there, the Irish scored in 11 
N D's first two points of the afternoon.
plays, all of them on the ground. 
the score," he admitted. "I offense executed beautifully, and
Extra Points 
Junior Ron Goodman got the 
would win, but I was they put a lot of points on the board 
touchdown on a nifty two-yard thought we 
concerned about our inexpt>rienced against us. "But we don't," he
,;weep around left end and 
defense, and I didn't think we said. "have to walk out of here with 
Thomas, who clicked on all six of 
would win by this margin. But I our heads down. We just got beat
his conversion chances, kicked ND
Think back, if you will, to those first few weeks here as a freshman. The was pleased that our reserves got by a very good football team."
into a 23-Q lead with 9:23 remaining 
entire mystique of NotreDamewith its football Saturdays, pep rallies, in so much game time. They Pont's praise, like Parseghian's, 
in the half.
marching band, and the game itself, is almost too much for a newly­deserve to play in a game like this, was well directed. The Irish arrived freshman to comprehend. It's hard to 1magine that what is Clements took care of the next and besides, we didn't want to run defense, though inexperienced,seemingly a quiet, unobtrusive-like mood on campus during the week two touchdowns himself. A short up a 66-Q type score." limited Northwestern to 146 of­can turn to the center of national attention on Saturday. Northwestern punt following fensive yards, while Notre Dame
The Irish, after a scoreless third
Goodman's score set the Irish up at 
gained 473. The Irish lost one
Then, imagine yourself a freshman football player, a Ross Browner, or period, did run it up to 44-Q. Cliff
the Wildcat 29. Clements passed to 
turnover -that a fourth period
Luther Bradley who, from being high school seniors a couple of months Brown and the number two offense
Demmerle for 6, and then hit 
fumble -while the 'Cats lost the
ago, suddenly find themselves starting for Notre Dame, THE Notre took over on the Irish 31 after .Jim
tailback Best for 17 yards before 
ball on three occasions.
Dame. skipping into the end zone from one Stock's recovery of a Wildcat The second Northwestern tur­fumble, and it took Notre Dameyard out.
It takes not only an exceptional athlete but an exceptional person. nover came on Mike Townsend's
just five plays to notch their sixth
Freshman year is THE year a lot of growing up is done and when com­The Irish QB capped the next end zone interception of Mitch
touchdown of the afternoon. After
poundedwiththe pressures of major college football, things become that drive -a 79-yard march which was Anderson to Steve Craig aerial.
two good gainers on the ground and 
kept alive by 24-yard passes to
much more difficult. The Wildcats had driven to the
one incompletion, Brown hit
fullback Wayne Bullock, Good­
So last year, enter Steve Niehaus who made believers out of the most Irish eight prior to the in­
man, and tight end Dave Casper­fullback Russ Kornman with a 
skeptical of football "experts" who said freshmen sould never be able to pass into the flat zone, and Korn­terception, and Townsend's theft
by prancing over from the two.
play major college football. Not only did Steve adapt rapidly to the Notre man carried the ball all the way to secured Notre Dame's shutout. It Dame system, but until he was sidelined for the season with a kneww That tally concluded the scoring the Northwestern 21. 
also kept alive Notre Dame's injury he was a definite All-American candidate. in the first half, and Parseghian On the next play, Gary Diminick streak of defensive dominance 
against teams from Evanston.
turned the entire second half over slipped through left tackle on aSaturday, no less than eight freshmen saw action. Besides Browner and Northwestern scored a touchdownto his number two offense, and mis-<lirection call and scootedBradley, defensive end Willie Fry, halfback AI Hunter, linebacker John against the Irish in the first period gave of most of the fourth period to untouched into the end zone.
Harchar, guard Elton Moore, fullback JoeWeilerandbackTim Simon all of the 1971 clash between the twohis number two defense. "Notre Dame was a very big and played. It's a credit to the coaching staff not only because of the recruiting teams, but since then, for 11 job they did but also because they were able to prepare these people so "I think it was a very good first­physical team," sighed Johnny straight quarters, the Wildcats
well. game performance," said Ara. Pont, the Wildcat coach. "The have been kept out of the Irish end "We did let down a little in the thing that impressed me most 
In speaking of Browner and Fry, defem:\ve line coach Joe Yonto spoke zone.
second half, but give Northwestern about them was their defensive 
just as highly about their mental attitude as their physical capabilities. IRISH ITEMS: Notre Dame
credit for coming back and playing play. Along with their size and 
"Their intensity and desire to learn is tremendous," he said. "They're started two freshmen, end Ross 
very courageously. quickness, the front four played a 
donating a lot of extra time. And they are solid, not only as players but as "I was surprised at the size of very alert and sharp game. Their Browner and deep back Luther people and I feel that's important." 
Bradley, in its defensive line-up, 
On Saturday, defensive end Browner and strong safety Bradley both and Browner, for one, felt little excelled. Besides blocking a put giving the Irish a safety, the 6-3, 228 pressure in his debut for the pound lineman from Warren, Ohio forced a fumble and had Northwestern 
Fighting Irish. "There wasn't too quarterback Mitch Anderson on the seat of his pants all day. Bradley, a much pressure there," said Muncie, Indiana native, played his position to near perfection and very Browner. "All the fellows were nearly picked off a pass for a touchdown early in the first quarter. behind me, and I felt good the 
whole game. I felt like everyone
It's a credit to both these ballplayers that they were able to adjust so was behind me"...Each sidequickly, so well, because in the midst of all the complexities of becoming suffered one injury, but Nor­oriented to college football as well as the college life itself, they played thwestern's was the more seriousmagnificently. Anyone who has ever been out at practice during the week of the two. Punter Dave Skarinwill appreciate the job Bradley has done just learning the terminology 
used in the defensive backfield. A lot of studyanda lot of concentration is 
suffered a compound fracture of involved before that opening kickoff. 
the tibia bone in his left leg after a second period collision with Sherm Ross Browner seemed to handle the pressure of the opening game as Smith, and Mike Townsend injured easily as he handled the Northwestern blockers who were supposed to his hand and was taken for x-rayskeep him out of their backfield. After the game when asked if he had been after the game.. .linebacker Gregnervous before it had all started, he had an interesting reply, "Not too Collins led the Irish in tackles with much," he offered, "all the guys are behind us all the way. I was feelin' two solos and 16 assists... thegood especially knowing everyone was behind us.When I went out there, I game's half-time program was was just thinking that I'd better go out and do my job." 
designed as a tribute to the late For Browner the main problem seems to be adjusting to the academic Elmer Layden, but there were life rather than the intricacies of the-defensive line. "I didn't have a hard those in the student section who time getting used to playing football here; it's just that there's more weren't impressed by the competition in college and that everyone has to be good. I just want to be ceremony, and who spent their part of a great Notre Dame defense and to learn my job better. But the time, instead, passing girls up the biggest adjustment I have to make is just getting myself together, trying stands. The timing was un­to limit my time so that I'll have enough time to study and still make it to fortunate-girls were passed up not football practice while learning how to study. Thesf' are the biggest things only during the ceremony, but also I have to learn to adjustto." during the alma mater -and the 
It takes an exceptional person to react so confidently and when you talk incident reflected unfavorably on to Ross you know he's not just feeding you a line. Accepting the challenge the courtesy and consideration of of Notre Dame football and Notre Dame academics at the age of 18 the student body ... Northwestern is demands the efforts of exceptional people. Browner, Bradley and the now 1-1, and will play Pittsburgh other freshmen on the travelling squad certainly fit this mold, as next weekend ... the Irish, 1-o, will 
meet Purdue next Saturday in a
evidenced Saturday. Pete Demmerle clutches the football illfter grabbing a nine-yard TO nationally televised encounter in
pass from Tom Clements.
Hopefully, though, people won't expect too much from them too soon. 
West Lafayette. 




