
On The Inside 
Irish over Trojans ...page 8 
Nocturne Night Flight .. page S 

Vol. VII No. 96 

serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 


Tuesday, March 20, 1973 

New hearing system proposed 


Lewis Hall incident provides impetus for action 

by David Rust Staff Reporter 
Notre Dame's Advanced Student Affairs Committee has produced a compromise judicial hearing system 1hat would allow students accused of offenses against the community to choose between a private hearing and one conducted by a board with student mem­lwrship. 
Crt>ation of the new system, initiated by the Lewis llall affair of last December in which a graduate ,;tudent was forced to withdraw following accusations of cohabitation, came only after two chaotic Com­mittee memetings, behind-the-scenes negotiations and lhe help of the Faculty Senate. 
According to Barry Wessels, Graduate Student trnion President and member of the ASAC, the Com­mittee "unanimously agreed" to the tri-partitie s~·stem. which now goes to other administrators, prpsumably Vice President for Student Affairs Philip Faccenda and Provost Fr. James Burtchaell, for their approval. 
The new system would allow accused graduates to choose a private hearing conducted by either the ASAC chairman or the Dean of Students. 
This hearing officer would report his "recommen­rlation" to the Vice President for Advanced Studies, who would then decide sanctions. 
H the accused feels at this time his right to due 
process has been violated in some way, the Vice 
President would appoint a special Hearing Officer who 
would make his own investigation and report to the 
Vice President. Final appeal would be allowed to the 
President of the Universitv. 
,\ student may also -choose a public judicial 
mechanism. in which the student would plead his case 
before a trippartitie board of administration, faculty 

Dr. Robert Gordon. Vice President for Advanced Studies. under the new proposals, would review all sanctions made by a tripartite board. 

Father Austgen noted the impropriety of disregarding Dr. Gordon's letter "without so much as a discussion." 
and students and the board would decide guilt and specify sanctions. These sanctions would be reviewed by the Vice President for Advanced Studies, with appeal to him and the President. 
If accepted at all levels, this would replace the present system which requires all cases to go to the Dean of Students and then to the Vice President for Advanced Studies, who may in special cases appoint a 
Hearing  Officer  to  investigate  and  recommend  a  
course of action to him.  
Even this judicial method is  new,  architected by  

present Vice President for Advanced Studies Robert Gordon and put into effect last January. 
II was this system that Dr. Gordon put before the Committee via two letters read at the Committee's .Jan. 22 meeting. 
According to the minutes of the meeting, authored by Chairman Fr. Robert Austgen. immediate response to Ihe reading of the proposal was a request by committee member Brother Mark Ratkus of the Social Science diviision to be allowed to offer a contrary motion. 
"Father t Austgen l responded that it was quite impropoer to brush Dr. Gordon's Jetter aside without so much as a discussion. in favor of another motion,"· the minutes read. 
Actually, as the minutes of the next meeting go on to hint .. Gordon was "dissapointed" that his proposal was never really discussed by the Committee, said the <;su·s Wessels. 
"Fr. Austgen wanted us to answer Dr. Gordon's proposal." explained Wessels. "Because of comments Ihat were made during its presentation we mistook it to he an interim arrangement that need not be answered. 
"Some members wanted to make another proposal because Dr. Gordon's did not make allowances for students on the Board." he continued. 
In fact. the minutes present a letter from Gordon listing what the Vice President calls "general needs," which he asks to have considered by the Committee, and another letter sent to Lewis, Brownson and Carroll Halls. written by Gordon and paraphrased by Fr. Aust'gen. suggesting what the minutes call an "in­terim·· judicial and appeals mechanism measure. 
The way Fr. Austgen chose to present the Com­mittee's dliberations in the minutes is on the whole a definite point of contention, said Wessels. 
For example, the minutes of the second <Feb. 23) meeting. criticized Wessels, make the sanctions Board of the system which has been accepted by the ASAC sound as \hough it is more subject to the Vice President for Student Afaairs than it was actually meant to be. 
"The Sanctions Board should be a fairly autonomous hody." said Wessels. "Although the Vice President should have the power to review its decisions, we would hope that he wouldn't make it a practice to overturn them." 
This brings the process away from an "in loco parentis" attitude. explained Wessels. 
The GSU chief also took aim on arguments recorded in the minutes, put ·forth by ASAC member Brother Kieran Rvan, Assistant Fice President for Business Affairs, that the Administration, "always ... sincere in its attempts to protect the student's rights... would not present or volunteer confidential information to the <Sanctions) Board." 
"Ifthe student members of the Board were not allowed pertinent information, confidential or not, how could the Board be able to render a complete and fair decision?" asked Wessels. 
"It is not my intention that students go delving in­discriminately into the private affairs of fellow students. but only have abailability to those facts which are pertinent to the case," he said. 
(continued on page 7) 

GSU President Barry Wessels feels students should hu I'<' accc>ss too "facts which are pertinent to the 
COS(,.'' 

1 
l ~ 
, 
j ~ 


Reporter 'shields' sources; court refuses case 
(C) 1973 New York Times 
.. Washington--The Supreme Court state"shield law'lhen in effect was quote but refused tosay what other The newspaper reporter's lawyer rejet·ted by the New Jerseydeclined today to review the inoperative if the name of a information the Commissioner, told the Supere Court that a grand Superior and Supreme Courts. contempt conviction of a New source appeared in the paper. Mrs. Pearl Beatty. had given him. jury should not be t•ntitled to Last .June. the Supreme Court .Jersey newspaperman who had The case involved Peter J. !It> was convicted of contempt and compel him to reveal confidential rult>d. 5 to -1. that the first amend­refused to provide a grand jury Bridge. then a reported for the served 21 days in jail. until the information when the jury might nwnt did not 1-(i\·e journalists the with information given him in Newark Evening News, who 1-(randjury investigating the not prodce any indictments at all. right to rl'fuse to provide grand t•onfidence unless the state proved quoted a t•ommissioner of the housing situation was discharged. hut nwrely a t•ritical report. on the juries with the names of sources "t·ompelling need." Nl•wark Housing Authority as None of the nine justices voted to art•a it was investigating. and information given them in 
Ttw decision left standing lower having said she had been offered a review the New Jersey court liP also maintained that the state l'Onfidt>nl'('. l'ourt rulings that the first $ln.ooo bribe to• vote for an ,un­dl•cision. but Associate Justice should have the burden of proving Sinl'l' that time. efforts hah amt>ndment did not provide named candidate for Executive William 0. Douglas based his sonw compelling need for the ht•t•n al'l'elt>ratl'd to win legislative rt>porters with any privilege to Director of the Authority. rl'fusal on a belief that the case had information before a grand jury approval of statutes that would n•main silent when questioned Called by the Essex County aln•adv been resolved since Mr. t·ould force a reporter to testify. providl' that kind of protection. at about their sources and the the (;rand Jury . Bridge confirmed the Bridgl: had served his term. Tht>st• arguments had been tlw state and federal level. 

warld 
(C) New York Times

briefs 
Moscow .. Th!.' Soviet authorities waived emigration taxes 1\londav for at h•ast educated Jews in what appeared to be tlw sl ;irt of an pffort to appease American Congressional opposil ion to an easing of trade with the Soviet Union. Jewish sou1-cPs said tht> five. including two married couples, had hl'l'll summmwd to the Soviet Visa Office and had been told that tlwv l'ould lt>avP for Israel without paying the high duty norm;tll.y levit>d on emigrants with a higher education. 
Nc•w Yori~-·Prospects of a fare et; this year o.n regularly ,d,l'dull'd trans-Atlantic flights havt: virtually dtsappea.red, and it became all but certain that fares for Amertcan 1rawlers would rise 6 per cent starting April 15 to reflect the rl'cenl dollar dt>valuation. 
Washington--A HPuse subcommittee ~ade pu?lic dol'unwnt s purporting to show that at least SIX more htg~­ranking nffieials of the Nixon Adminstration_were involved 111 the suel'l'ssful at tempt to persuade the Justtc Department to ~PiliP its anti-trust suits against the international Telephone ;llld '1\·lt>graph Corporation on terms acceptable to the ,·ontpany. 
\\'nslrington--Two months after President Nixon's 1nauguration for a st>cond term, more than a ~uarter o~ the tll<ljor sub-cabinet positions in his administratiOn :em~111 ~o he l'illt>d. A survey by the New York Times of the sttuatwn 111 ••al'11 of the cabinet departments shows a 28 per c~nt vacan~y rail' among under secretaries, assistant secretaries and thetr approximate equivalents. 
an campu• taday 
7:00 p.m.--lecture' fundamentals of investing, finance series, carroll hall, smc 
7:30 p.m ... lecture--lec rure, hemingway and the let , prof. john d. garvick, audio-visual auditorium, v:e 
B:OO p.m ... dance, eleo pomare dance company, 
o'laughlin auditorium, smc, student admission 
$2.00 
B: 15 p.m ... concert, notre dame glee club spring cancer , washington hall. 



new exchange rates 


SMC students consider reforms 
I , Judicial Board will serve in an The Student Assembly, Student advisory capacity while a board Affairs Committee, and Student eomposed of the Chairman, Hall Affairs Council have passed the Life Commissioner, and Student proposal. following the regualar Affairs Commissioners have procedure prescribed in the voting rights. Student Manual, she added. "The purpose of the revision," "We strongly urge that students Oglesbee continued, "is to have contact .their Student Assembly better communication between rt>present at vie or call the Student ­students and student life, and to Government Office at 5373 if they bring in more channels of com­have a question on the revision. munication between class We will also have printed copies of presidents and hall presidents, so the revision for students who bettering the process of filtration." want them." she said. 
by Clyde H. Farnsworth 
(C) 1973 New York Times 
Paris--A new monetary system of flexible and frequently floating exchange rates was ushered into the western world today under calm. circumspect market con­ditions in which the beleagured dollar was able to pick up a little strength against the other major eurrencies. 
The reopening of official foreign 
exchange trading after a 17-day 
shutdown left the currency 
specialists in the major European 
centers still confused over the 
implications of last Friday's Paris 
settlement and divided over its 
durability. 
Opinions ran the gamut from this 
statement by a Brussels banker: 
"1 think we'll see orderly con­
ditions for quite a while"--to this 
admonition by a Zurich banker: 
"Confidence has not returned." 
The dollar moved sharply higher against the European currencies Parly in the day, and then retreated while still closing with a net gain on the day. 
The gold price, which weakens when the dollar strengthens in almost automatic inverse reaction fell from $82.75 an ounce in London Friday to $82.25. 
One thing that helped the dollar today. dealers said, was the news that the prime rate of two New York Banks had risen by a half percentage point to 63<1 per cent, signaling perhaps a new round of tighter money. 
There have been rumors, for­mally denied by federal reserve board chairman Arthur F. Burns, that the United States promised its trading partners to get interest rates higher to help shoulder some of the burden of excess dollars in the world. 
European observers note that whether it is to curb domestic inflation or placate American allies, the effects of higher interest rates in the U.S. will be the same-­to draw dollars homeward. 
Against the Swiss franc, which the Swiss authorities said today would continue to float in­dependently, the dollar rose as high as 3.28 francs before falling back to 3.25. Last Friday's closing rate was 3.2J. 
Against the German mark, the 
dollar closed Friday at 2.82 marks, 
rose as high as 2.8350 marks today 
before retreating to 2.8250 at the 
close. 
That was incidentally the "floor" rate to which the dollar had been pressed by the floods of !.'xcess dollars that moved to Frankfurt on March l. Those dollars were t>xchanged for marks on a bet that either the mark would 
be upvalued or: the dollar devalued. 
On March 2, the governments of 
W!.'stern Europe . and Japan 
stopped intervening in the ex­
change markets and called a round 
of eonferences to try to resolve a 
nisis, not just of the dollar, but of 
the monetary system itself. 
Over the intervening fortnight 
the old system of fixed and in­
frequent varied exchange rates 
went by the boards. Governments 
decided last Friday they would no 
longer be eommitteed to defending 
a given exchange rate but that they 
would nevertheless try to maintain 
orderly market conditions by in­
tervening in the exchange markets 
from time to time. 
The U.S. joined in the 
declaration. 
The other main characteristic of 
the new exchange system is the 
joint float of six of the nine com­
mon market currencies, and it was 
an event arising from this 
development that caused the only 
major action in today's exchange 
dealings. 
France, Germany, Belgium, the Netherlands, Denmark and Luxembourg are committed in the joint float to keeping their currencies locked ogether within a 
2.25 per cent margin while the currencies move relatively freely as a bloc against the dollar. The linked currencies are described as a snake. 
Brilian, Ireland and Italy, the other European economic com­munity members, continue their pre-crisis policy of letting their monies fluctuate independently. 

AT NOTRE DAM 


Settle 
down 
to the 
natural 

one. Busch: 


Nominations for GSU President , Vice President and Secretary-Treasurer are now being accepted All interested Grads see Barry Wessels 102B 
N.S.H. for more information. Nominations close March 30th 
PARTS & ACCESSORIES FOR IMPORT CARS 
"Original Equipment Parts for the lowest Prices." 

FOREIGN CAR PARTS CO. 
215 DIXIEWAY NORTH SOUTH BEND tOn U.S. 31, 2 Blocks North Roaionat 
of South Bend Toll Road Exit
Diatributor 

II 
(On U.S. 31, 2 Blocks North of South Bend Toll Road Exit) 

272-7187 
HOURS 8:00am · 6:00pm Mon. thru Sat. 10 percent Discount to N.D. Students & Staff on pur­chases over $10.00 (must show f. D. card.) 
I 
l'le ·Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions n1ay be purchased for S8 per 
•5ernt•ster (S14 per year) from The 
Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postaqe paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
J6556, 

Cultural Arts Bus Trip to Chicago, 

to see 

'Don't Bother Me, I Can't Cope' 
(Now Playing on Broadway) 
Saturday, March 24, 1973 8:00am Bus Leaving Library Circle 11:30-1:30 Lunch at Mr. Kelly's9:30-11:30 TOUR OF DU SABLE MUSEUM 2:00-4:00 Don't Bother Me, I Can't Cope 
TOUR TO ELLIS'S AFRO AMERICAN BOOKSTORE  4:30  Departure for South Bend  
or  7:30  Arrival in South Bend  
DOWNTOWN AREA FOR SHOPPING  

ART INSTITUTE FOR RENOIR EXHIBIT OF 90 PAINTiNGS 
STUDENT PRICE $15.00 (for the first 41) 
PLEASE REGI TER D PAY FEE IN THE BLACK STUDIES PROGRAM OFFICE 

Tuesday, March 20, 1973 
Dance coznpany to stage revue in O'Laughlin tonight at 8:00 
The Eleo Pomare Dance Company will perform at 8:00 p.m., Tuesday, March 20; 1973, in O'Laughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's College, Notre Dame, Indiana. This is part of the Per­forming Arts series. 
From the outset this integrated but predominantly Negro dance company took as its purpose "the creative utilizatiQn of Negro talent and ability in contemporary Modern Dance in an effort to break away from confining stereotypes of Negro or Primitive dance." 
Eleo Pomare, Artistic Director and Choreographer for the com­pany, was born in Colombia, raised in Panama, and moved to New York City at the age of ten. He graduated from the High School of Performing Arts and within two years started his own dance company. Pomare won a John Hay Whitney Fellowship to study dance in Europe. While abroad, he formed a European Company whch achieved great success. 
They performed in Germany, Holland, Denmark. Sweden and Norway. Mr. Pomare also taught at the National Ballet and Scapino Ballet Companies in Holland, at Stockholm University, and at the 


Pedtke will direct his last Glee Club concert tonight 
Professor Daniel "Dean" Pedtke will direct his last Glee Club performance for the Notre Dame student body tonight at 8:15 in Washington Hall. After directing he Glee Club for thirty-five years, Prof. Pedtke will retire at the end of this semester. Though he will direct one more concert on campus during graduation weekend, tonight's concert will be the last chance for most students to hear the Glee Club under his direction. . Pedtke, 67, has studied under such musicians as Alexander Raab and Sergio Tarnosky, and made his debut as a pianist at the age of fifteen. He worked for several years as an organist in silent movie theatres and as an ac­
companist for radio station WGN in Chicago. He appeared as a soloist with the Chicago Symphony Orchestra 


Glee Club Concert 
8:15pm 
before he received his musical 
degree from DePaul University in 
Chicago. He then studied at both 
the Bush and the American Con­
servatories of Music. 
After serving as an organist and choirmaster for numerous churches in the Midwest and as the head of the Department of Music at the College of St. Theresa in Winon,a Minnesota, Pedtke came to the University of Notre Dame in 1936. He was named the Chairman of the Department of Music and assumed the additional duties of Director the the Glee Club in 1938. 
Pedtke is a Fellow of the American Guild of Organists and has written several works for the piano and organ, including a Mass in honor of St. Jude. He is also the author of a textbook for piano students entitled Keyboard· Harmony. 
The Eleo Pomare Dance Company utilizes Negro talent and ability. 
First International D1mce Seminar of the Royal Dutch Ballet. 
Upon his return from Europe, 

·Mr. Pomare reorganized and expanded his company's repertory and touring activities. 
Eleo Pomare's choreographic works vary widely in theme and mood. "Serendipity" is a pure-

Washington Hall FREE 
Special Serections Include: 'HalleluJah Chorus' from the Messiah 'Trial by Jury' operetta by Gilbert & Sullivan 
ance work to Handel. "Of Mice and Marigolds" is based uponchildren's poetry. 
Among the company's notable successes has been "Blues for the Jungle," which was created as a tribute to Harlem. 
The Eleo Pomare Dance Company has performed to great critical acclaim at the New York City Center and the Brooklyn Academy of Music. It was the only American dance company invited to appear at the internationally renowned biennial Adelaide Festival of Arts in Australia. 
The company is accredited with the New York State Council on the Arts and is under the Coordinated Residency-Touring Dance Program of the · National En­dowment for the Arts. 
Tickets are $3.50, general public, and $2.00 students, and . are available at Saint Mary's College, Room 239, Moreau Hall, or call 284-4176 for reservations. 
IF YOU HAVE AN UNUSUAL TALENT, YOU HAVE WHAT IT TAKES TO BE A BUDWEISER®WORLD CHAMPION! 
EARN THIS TERRIFIC PATCH, 7" X6", COLORFUL, WASHABLE, WITH SPACE FOR WRITING IN YOUR SPECIALTY. 
Breathe easy, Earthlings. Budweiser is doing something about the current short­age of world champions in the world. 
Budweiser is sanctioning five foolish events in which world-record setters can win prestige plus a handsome patch. 
In addition to the thrilling BUD"' CAN TOTE, there are four others. Get details at your favorite beer store where you see the gaudy "Bud­weiser World Championship" display! 
Do one, beat the record, tell us about it on a postcard and get your marker pen ready for inscribing your particular specialty be­neath where it says "World Champion." 
TO GET YOUR BUDWEISER WORLD CHAMPION PATCH 
(EVEN IF YOU DON'T SET A RECORD), JUST WRITE YOUR NAME, ADDRESS AND WHAT YOU DID ON A POSTCARD. 

NO 'ROOf Of 'UIICHASE IEOUIIED. OffEI VOID WHEIE 'IOHIIITED IY lAW. AllOW fOUl WEEKS fQI DEUVUY. Offfl EXPIIES DECEMifl 31. ltn. 
ANHtUS!R-BUSCH. INC • ST. LOUIS 
1 
,1 
l ,I 
This fine young man is doing the BUDWEISER CAN TOTE. So should you. Just tote a record number of empty Bud cans, balanced atop one another, without mishap, for a distance of 25 feet and earn a dandy Budweiser World Champion patch. Record to beat is 4. (You laugh?) 

(Maybe you've detected that this is not an official, rigid-rules "contest." But it is a lot of fun, even if you can't break the records. You can, though, can't you?) 





Dardian Knat 
Three Memorable Fancies 
Ed Elli• 
Joe Butler Business Manager Advertising Manager Dan Thornton 
NEWS: 283-1715 EDITORIALS: 283-8661 BUSINESS: 283-7471 


the observer 
Managing Editor: Joe Abell News Editor: Anthony Abowd SMc· Editor: Maria Gallagher Editorial Editor: Butch Ward Features Editor: Beth Hall Sports Editor: Vic Dorr Wire Editor: Tom Drape Night Editor:· Kathy Schwille Ass't. Night Editor: Robert Baker Layout: Kathy, Robert Sports Night Editor: Vic Dorr Copy Editor· Mike O'Hare Pictures: Jerome the Pinto Day Editor: J. "Scoop" Gresser 
'~ 
Typists Barb Norcross. Howard Halle, Steve Roper, 
Tom Modglen Night Controller. John Flannigan 
' 
Subscriptions Editor: Steve Kane 
t 
Tuesday, March 20, 1973 






The "'New" V.P. 
This afternoon at 4:00, Notre Dame is going to announce the appointment of a permanent Vice President for Student Affairs. Throughout the past year, Dr. Philip Faccenda has filled in as tem­porary Vice President, and even though absolute confirmation cannot be ob­tained, indicators point toward the re­appointment of Faccenda to the post. If that is the case, it will be another step forward for student affairs at Notre Dame. 
Temporary Post 
Last Spring after Father Thomas Blantz stepped down from the position, the Vice Presidential Search Committee was formed to find a replacement. In their desire to get the best possible man they ended up stalemated and asked Faccenda to accept the job on a tem­porary basis. He did so and waded into the Vice President's job determined to straighten out the office with some ad­ministrative house cleaning. 
The House ClealliDg 
First Faccenda moved the office of student affairs out of LaFortune and into the Administration Building, attempting to return to the post the prestige of a true University Vice President and the power that goes with it. 

To John 
John Abowd stepped into the office of Editor-in-Chief of The Observer on Thursday, March 2 and 127 issues later he moved his materials out of the office ending his tenure. • 
John inherited a newspaper with good economic foundations, but inconsistent journalistic quality. The paper that he took over was solid for the first time in its history, though. It was a· paper with a wealth of qualified personnel and endless potentiaL 
And he took all those factors, mixing them as he saw fit to guide The Observer through the finest year of its history. John vastly improved the economics of the paper, making it financially sound. 
daan..bury 
His most important move was the centralization of the Student Affairs Office. H·e created a central staff with a clearcut line of power and responsibility. Thus replacing the vagueness that came with the office's lack of definition. 
'lbe Housing Move 
Despite the unpopularity of his major decision on housing, he nonetheless made the decision early in the year to facilitate students looking for off-campus housing. Also, with commendable foresight, he named the women's dorm for the 1974-75 school year thus eliminating the problem of choosing a women's dorm next year. 
A Good Job 
As is always the case, it is impossible to make decisions that everyone agrees with, but Faccenda in the long run .has shown excellent foresight and throughout the year he has proven himself to be co­operative and honest with the students. 
Faccenda remarked last semester that the job was strictly temporary and he was sure that the Search Committee would come up with a qualified replacement for him. All evidence points to Faccenda moving into the Vice President's office on a permanent basis now. He has shown himself worthy of the post and his retention would be to the benefit of all involved. Hopefully at 4:00, the University will show that they agree. 
Jerry Lutkus 
His economic improvements allowed the journalistic advances 1:o take place. 
He introduced special supplements to the paper and utilized two color printing for the first time. His full color Christmas front page will stand as a highpoint in Observer history. Abowd also began signed editorials so that the sources of editorial opinion could be verified· and confusion prevented. 
All in all, it was a banner year for the newspaper. The Observer as it stands today is a tribute to the genius and talent of John Abowd. Everyone here will miss him and to him goes the staff's grateful thanks and our congratulations on a magnificent year. 
The Editorial Board 
f~~arry trudeau 
I once sat alone before my fireplace o.n a cold.;_ windy night, and 
being in a state of moral dissatisfaction, I fancied the following 
panorama: 
It was a dark, drizzly November day, in both my soul and my vision 
of Notre Dame. The Golden Dome was painted a black, not a shiny, 
dark shiny black, like the black 6nyx of a ring, but a flat, dull 
blackness like that of a badly painted barroom wall. The Rockne 
Building was filled with apes, some of whom swung from the 
basketball nets grinning stupidly, while others hurled basketballs at 
each other in the swimming pool. A gorilla had replaced Fat Eddy, 
and was handing brown suits to the female apes. 
People on campus were grinning, not the happy smile of fulfillment, 
but the hideous grin all known well only to the prince of cynicism. Fr. 
Sorin's statue was grinning insanely, as if his brain had been eaten 
alive by the squirrels that daily climb his back. The Sacred Heart in 
front of the Dome laughed insidiously, and gestured to the grass and 
trees around him. all of which displayed colorless, odorless, and 
tasteless brown. 
Finally the panorama turned to the Memorial Library, where .lost 
souls pursued the demon of truth through mazes of rotten fruit, 
hanging from trees on each floor as if the trees were shelves and the 
fruit ·volumes holding some great wealth of human knowledge. When I 
protested that they worked in vain, a scholar glared at me and recited, 
"The Demon is Real." 
Worst of all, however, was the touchdown Jesus, whose arms were 
spread very wide, not high to signify a score, but in the low negative 
position. indicating that the attempted score was "No Good." For in 
fact. nothing Jesus saw was good. He saw only failure. 
II 
As suddenly as it appeared, my vision vanished to be replaced by a second memorable fancy. We were now in a sunny , happy May with flowers. The Rock was filled with gallant athletes,reminiscent to the scholarly of a Greek gymnasium or a Roman bath. A bustle of activity occupied the quads.-football, softball, frisbee-all were happy. 
The Golden Dome was shining with a brilliance unknown in 11ndiana. A smgular sense of permanence prevailed, a sense that whatever the pressures and temptations of contemporary society, this campus would somehow survive under the protection of the Holy Virgin. Fr. Sorin. the . Sacred Heart, Touchdown Jesus and the ghosts of Washington Hall and the Stadium ratified this notion in a sacred Congress in the LaFortune Ballroom. In an adjoining room, Student Government folks gaily wrote letters to anyone they could think of... letters of congratulation, letters of protest, letters of en­couragement ... words, words, words. 
The bars. of course, were full, for how else can Notre Dame be happy. Nickie, Corby. Frankie, and Jay's Lounge reported profits, as smiling Darners and laughing SMCer's pledged each other eternal fidelity and everlasting bliss. Cynicism was dead, and the word went out: All is well at this best of all possible Notre Dames. 
lli 
These two contradictory phenomena troubled me, but while !hoped 
for some sort of enlightenment there came a third vision that proved a 
synthesis of the previous two. 
It was now early Spring perhaps March or April. that time of year 
when the dull browns and greys of Winter begin to ~·ield to the pleasant 
green of Spring·. Notre Dame was in a state of transition. accompanied 
by dynamic tension and a curious sense or affirmation. 
This new panorama was neither entirely cynical nor totally naive. l saw many parties in the halls, some populated by raucous, drunken bores, but others with people who danced and sang, and enjoyed themselves and their friends. Bad professors taught bad courses, as they always have and always will, but other men brought their students wisdom, and these men were honored. No one was preten· 1ious enough to suggest that he sought"Truth"or the like in any but accidental fashion. 
As I talked with students across campus I found a pervading sense ot hope. These people in this spring of an unknown year knew that things W<'re not all for the best in their world. But they had avoided the <'masculating depths of senseless cynicism as well as they had avoided the drunken heights of an l•xaggerated innocence. They saw parts of Notre Dame worth embracing and loving and developing to their fullest potential. They had made the affirmation that is the only possible foundation for worthwhile human activity. 
.Just when I had perceived the reality of this unreal Dome, my fire woke me by flaming, sparking and praying fire in a most fearful manner. I rPsolved then to meet myself, not in November or May., but in the setting of affirmation, which is now. 


t--­

Tuesday, March 20, 1973 
the observer 
5 


kevin dockrell: minstrel of the night 
panel so that it is three feet from his head. 
A few minutes before midnight a student, Dockrell's NightFlight has begun.
wearing a Mickey Mouse visor cap and Kevin Dockrell is in his third year as ancarrying a stack of record albums under his announcer at WSND. "I started out as aarm. enters the back door of O'Shaughnessy freshman. Back then I was taken underHall. He runs down the corridor to the 
wing by one of the pros here and taughtelevator, inserts a key, and starts his climb everything that I now know. My teacher has to the fifth floor of the clock tower and the since had to leave the station because hestudios of WSND student radio. He is Kevin was in trouble with his grades.
Dockrell and he does the Wenesday version of the "Nocturne Night Flight," WSND's 
"Knowing your stuff"
late night radio show from midnight to two a.m. The FM studio of WSND looks like the 
"Everyone that works here seems to haveshipping office of a dusty warehouse. It is a similar grade problems. Even with asmall, cluttered room with a plywood floor station manager with better than a 't5 inand a twenty foot ceiling. The holes in the Engineering, the semester accumu. ·tivefloor are hazards to chair legs. Near the average for the station is usually around '.3.
ceiling, the walls are scarred with old glue "I used to do a top forty show that I rea. vwhere acoustical tile has fallen down. 
liked. But when someone offers you NocDockrell settles into this studio to wait for turne Night Flight, you just don't turn itthe start of his show, after midnight news down. This is the prestige show of theand sports. 
station. On Night Flight you have to know 
vour stuff. You have to have a pretty broad 
the flight begins based musical taste." 
Part of "knowing your stuff" shows in the 
The sports announcer is finally finishing: way you regard your music. Dockrell only "And now stay tuned to WSND for an ex­plays albums from his own collecton, which citing Nocturne Night Flight with Kevin ·he painfully guards against dust and 
Dockrell." With a quick swallow of Bubble scratches. Before the show, he goes through Up. Dockrell switches on his personal theme his collection .and chooses the records that song. turns up the volume in the studio, and would match the kinds of moods he'd like to pulls a movable speaker up onto the control create during the show. "I pretty well 

Little Bir:~ Screen 
reruns begin 
art ferranli 
Get set for still another week of the made­This next movie is the most promising next for -TV beauties that we have been sub­to Roddenbury's production. Toma follows jected to for the past month. There is only the real life adventures of New York one movie that has appeared on the screen detective David Toma wbo become a which is being rerun Thursday at 9 on 22 and veritable chameleon to break up a $20 that can easily be skipped. It is titled million dollar gambling syndicate in 1970. H o r n e t ' s N e s t and stars Tony Musante plays Toma with Susan Rock Hudson as an Arrny officer St rasberg whose looks match her 1h WW li wiping out the Nazi occupation in superlative acting as his wife. Catch this Italy with a bunch of kids who call them­instead of "Banacek" which is a rerun selves the Baby Brigade. They blow up a anyhow. It airs Wednesday at 8:30 on 28. dam and laugh with glee when creaming a Reruns officially begin this week. There Nazi. It is strictly comic-book stuff. will not be an ABC Sunday night movie so 
Genesis II , the Gene Roddenberry pilot I that the Tony Awards may be presented. wrote about in my last column, premieres These are for plays and the theater. Friday at 9:30 on 22. They have added a new NBC has two more pilots scheduled for twist to the plot though. Alex Cord (The Saturday in place of their normal movie. Brotherhood) stars as a man put into a Chase at nine is a Jack Webb produced film state of suspended animation, who about undercover policemen and Partners awakens in the year 2133 A.D. I am sure in Crime has Lee Grant, one of the most that the viewer will be treated to Rod­most accomplished and under-rated ac­denberry's usual scientific gimmickery tresses in the business, as an early­without becoming bored with Jack Webb­retirement-judge-turned-crimebuster. She type explanations. quits the bench at ten on 16. 
Assorted Nonsense; So far the ax has 
Tom Sawyer fallen on "Laugh-In" for next season but 
Rowan and Martin nave been promised a 
new series regardless. "Mission: Im­
.Just before this premiere, a new feature possible" died in mid-season and will not be 
version of Tom Sawyer airs on 22 at eight. back, ditto "Cool Million" and "Banacek" 
This one has Tom a great deal more correct the latter has not been finalized yet but 
in his manner which means that he and indications tend to favor its cancelation. Of 
Bt>cky might not go off to the cave together. course, with more pilots in the future, the 
Anyhow. Jan Wyatt plays Aunt Polly, Buddy new schedule is not yet known. 
Ebsen plays grave digger Muff Potter, a 
Why all the pilots?
eouple of unknowns play Tom, Huck, and 
Becky. and Vic Morrow, who starred at Sgt. 
Chip Saunders on "Combat!" some years The reason for all the pilots, incidentally, back. plays Injun Joe. I wonder if he would is quite simple. The producers in the past be allowed in at Wounded Knee ... would have to put up the money for the pilot Vic Morrow also stars tonight in Police and hope it wou!dsell. It it did not , the costs Story. a pilot for next year created by of production came directly from his pocket. Joseph Wambaugh who wrote The New This way, by lengthening the program to 90 Centurians and The Blue Knight. Also in the or 120 minutes ltheoreticallyl, it can be sold cast are Edward Asner of "The Mary Tyler as a made-for-TV movie. The audience Moore Show", Chuck Connors, and David ratings then determine if it will be a Doyle of "Bridget Loves Bernie" fame. The program series or not. In any case, the sirens whine at 8 tonight on 16. producer does not lose his investment. It can only pay off. Of thepilotsl have seen this year <about 95 per centl , I think the ex­
Beg. borrow or Steal 
periment was successful. When they have all aired. I shall list those that I believe are the most promising.
Also tonight three TV good guys become Reminder; The Academy Awards is nextbad guys in Beg. Borrow,... or Steal . Mike Tuesday night at ten on NBC ()6). Refering
"Connors I"Mannix" l plays a cripple, to my picks of a month and a half ago, IMichael Cole 1 "Mod Squad" l is handless, should like to clarify my position. The ones Iand Kent McCord I"Adam-12") Jacks sight. 
picked reflect! hose I think that will get theThey can not make it legally so they are awards not necessarily those that deserveforced to commit a burglary. It might be it. although themajoritydo coincide.
interesting to see how or if they pull it off. I 
david kaminski 

have my show made up in my head befor.ei was as poor as it was. But Dylan is always do it. I never offer to play requests and abrasive. He shakes and disturbs you. usually refuse to if someone calls and asks. Dylan is not the kind of music to listen to Requests would interfere with what I have when you want to stay in a calm mood." planned for the show. I'd like to think that Dockrell warns you that he's a great put­I'm doing something a little bit creative on artist. But you think after awhile that here." that's only an excuse for his unuslial en­
thusiasm about music. "I don't know, 
about the music music just does strage things to me... 1 do_ radio back home during the summer too... WMAL stereo FM in Washington, D.C.
Almost from the moment that this show starts. the phone in the studio starts ringing. 
professional radio
Calls come in from all over the campus and the citv. Friends want to talk to Dockrell about ihe folk band that he's forming or "I might like to stay in radio when I about some great antique guitar that they graduate from Notre Dame. But I also saw a few days ago. But mostly they want to might like to teach. Professional radio is talk about the music he's playing on the show pretty ruthless. You're all right as long as and Dockrell is always ready for that. you stay in touch with the times.But as soon 
"You may not like groups like Creedence as you fall behind, you're out on the street." Clearwater and Three Dog Night. But The Nigth Flight is well into its second there's one thing about anyone as successful hour. Most of the calls stop coming in after as them. They learn how not to mess up. one o-clock. Dockrell is left pretty much They know what they want their material to alone with his music, up in the F·M studio. sound like and they can keep making it "It does get kind of lonely up here sound like that. The result is hit after hit." sometimes. But I always know that someone is still listening to me. \Night his favorites Flight has a really big listening audience. 
Dockrell knows his music well because he 
loves the night
is a musician himself. He'll argue with you about who's a better lead guitarist, Eric Clapton or Stephen Stills. And he'll con­"And even if no one is listening, I love to vince you that Stills is better for reasons of do this show: I love the night. I know that structure, technique, and control. But he when I leave, I'll drive home in a quiet snow does have his undisputed favorites, and one to my house. E~eryone will be asleep and of them is Tom Rush. all the lights will be out. I'll slip to my room 
with a book and a bottle of wine and read Rush & Dylan until I fall asleep. "It's funny, just whenyou think you're all 
"I'd rather listen to Rush than anyone alone at the end of the show, the phone will else. I suppose. If you were to decide who ring and a soft voice will say, 'Thanks, it had the best awareness of the progression of was really nice tonight.' That makes it all American music in the last ten years, it worthwhile." would have to be Tom Rush. Just look at his Circle Game album that came out in 1968. 
2:00a.m.
In one album he discovered the writing talent of both James Taylor and Joni Mit­ehell. And when Rush started writing his So 2:00a.m. comes around, and the time own stuff, it was even better. I think he's has gone by fast. With his closing theme greater than Bob Dylan. song in the background, Dockrell signs 
"The thing about Dylan is that he was WSND off the air for the day, shuts down the such a surprise to music. No one could transmitter. finishes up entries in the FCC believe that he was doing the things that he log. locks up the station, and walks out into a was back in 1962 and '63 when popular music still Notre Dame night. 
..But when someone offers you 


Nocturne Night Flight, you just 
am sure you can count on some typical 
•
Hollywood cliches. The rip-off is' scheduled Trivia Question: In what city did Hit­don't turn it down. This IS thefor 8:30 on ABC, 28. ehcock's Vertigo\ Rear Window. The Birds 
Murdock's Gang has Alex Drier as an ex­1hesides Bodego Bay-there's a hintl, and lawyerwhojoins the ranks of the myriad TV Dashiell Hammett's The Maltese Falcon to detectives with his own group of sleuths, a name a few. all take place? kind of "Garrison's Guerillas" in 1973. At 


prestige show of the station." 
any rate. the movie begins at 9:30 on 22. 
.. 
l 
~ 
• 
1 
~ ~ 
J 
1 
l 
l 
j 
..;;,_____ Tuesday, March 20, 1973
6 the observer 
. 
Dissident Sioux Indians threaten tribal split 

by J John Kifner 
(c) 1973 New York Times 
Pine Ridge. S.D.. Oglala Sioux tribt•smen in opposition to the tribal eouncil chairman, Richard Wison. began proceedings today that could lead to the overthrow of his government. . 
Ml'anwhile. militant Ind1ans holding Wounded Knee today responded to a settlement H the armed confrontation proposed the tlw federal government by dmwnding a meeting with a "~pecial presidential emissary" to negotiate on the basis of 19th century Irealies. 
Tlw tribal dissidents presented p<'litions late this afternoon to the n•se rv at ion s u peri ntendent, Stanlt'Y Lyman. andCharles Soller, 
Associate\ Solicitor of the Interior Department, who was sent here as that agency's top representative. The petitioners called for a referendum of the tribal con­stitution. 
Wilson's government has become a key issue here. 
The militants, led by members of the American Indtan Movement, have demanded his ouster, charging that his regime is "corrupt and dictatorial." 
The Interior Department regards such a move as a threat to tribal government across the country, as established under the Indian Reorganization Act of 1934, and has refused to budge. 
The petitioners come largely from Indians in the outlyingareasof the Pine Ridge Reservation,' who 
consider themselves a part of the 
full-blood traditionalist faction of 
the tribe. 
The traditionalist Indians feel that the established tribal government reflects the interests of the mixed blood Indians living primarily around the village of Pine Ridge. 
The dissident Sioux said that they had 1,450 signatures on the petitions. The tribal constitution says that a referendum may be called for on petition of one-third of the approximately 3,000 voting members of the tribe. 
Soller told the group in a meeting at the reservation superintendent's office today that "I assure you we will take these petitions and follow the rules." 
Later, a government so-
Hunt announces commencement plans 
Senior Class President Jim Hunt announced that plans for the 1973 Comnwncement Exercises in May an• well underway, with the first mailing to parents of graduating s!'niors being sent out during spring break. 
"The letter from the Center for <'ont inuing Education explained that the housing for parents will remain basically the same as last Year." Hunt said. "Parents will be 
iwused  in  various  dorms  on  
campus for  a  very nominal p rice  
pt'r night."  

The accomodations on campus will be handled on a first come first s!'rve basis and a parents' preference of hall and room does not necessarily mean he will get it. 
This letter will also be sent to the Seniors with a packet of in­format ion concerning the weekend. A packet of information will be sent to each parent with more information concerning not only the ceremonies and activities for the weekend, but also an ex­planation of campus parking areas open for visitors and informaton centers. 
"There is no limit to the number of guests permitted," Hunt stated, "but Seniors are asked to keep the number reasonable." Presently, the hall clerks in all the halls th::tt will be used for parent housing are checking over the lists of Seniors, to be certain that no graduating Senior's room is rented out. 
As far as the graduation ceremonies themselves are con­cerned, Hunt confirmed that the University made many changes in the actual ceremonies last year and they appeared quite workable. The Graduation Committee will be working in the next month or so to work out all the problems that did come up last year's events, however most of them were rather minor. Anyone with ideas con­cerning the events should contact l'ither Jim Hunt or Marty Clements at 233-4840 or Tony Greco at 287-6010. 
Hunt pointed out that any un­derclassmen planning to stay on campus through' the graduation weekend must send a written excuse to Graduation Committee, Senior Class Offices, Box 114, Notre Dame. Indiana, If no excuse is submitted to ~ne committee before Marci. 30th, all un­derclassmen will be without a room because the Center for Continuing Education will begin pokesman said that the federal At Wounded Knee, the response officials had accepted the petitions of the militants fell far short of the and were in the process of ultimatum promised by the verifying the signatures. leadership of the American Indian­
placement  of  parents  in  the  
presumed  vacant  rooms  on  the  
first of April.  

Two of the dissident tribal Movement yesterday and in­councilmen who had un­dicated they are still considering successfully attempted to impeach the proposal for a settlement of­Wilson, Richard Little and C. fered by the government yester­Hobart Keith, attended the day. meeting, along with three other In the meantime, however, the tribe members Delores Swift Bird, militant indians called on a former tribal judge; Barbara President Nixon to name Ann Means, a clerk at the tribal representative "selected from court and Louis Bad Wound, a anong the Sioux" to negotiate a staunch traditionalist. settlement based on treaties 
They also charged that the tribal signed in 1868 and 1876. The treaty police and a group known among details were not spelled out, but the Wilson's opponents as "The Goon Indians said that suggestions for Squad" were attempting to in-such a settlement were delivered 1 imidate political dissidents. to the White House on Friday. 

Attention Entertainment: 
Featuring: 

Paul Butterfield Better Days 
with Paul Butterfield on Harmonica and Piano 
Goeff Muldaur on Vocals Amos Garrett on Guitar Bill Rich on Bass Ronnie Barron on Keyboard Chris Parker on Drums 
Special Guest Star: 

Weather Report 
with Wayne Shorter on Sax Joe Zawinul on Piano 
Miro Vitous on Bass Alphonse Mouzon on Drums Airto Moreiro on Percussion 
IN CONCERT at Morris Civic Auditorium Sunday March 25 1973 Time: 7: 30; door opens at 6:30 
Tickets $5.00 Advance and $5.50 at the Door day of show. All seats reserved. 
Tickets are available at Morris Civic Auditorium box office between 11:00 a.m. and 5:00p.m. daily. brought to you by: Atomic Productions and Universal Weasel 

Northwest's Reserved Youth Fare or ... 
how to fly like everybody else for 20% off. 
Flying standby is great ... if you don't mind standing by. But sometimes you want to get somewhere at a certain time. 
So Northwest Orient has found the happy medium. Now we'll give you a re­served seat for about 20% off Coach fare if you have any airline Youth Card. Make a reservation and when flight time comes, walk in and take your seat-just 
like  a  passenger paying  full  fare.  No  
waiting.  No worrying.  No gett ing  
bumped. It's that simple.  

If you don't have a Youth Card, get one from any Northwest ticket office or your campus travel agent. (Be sure to bring along proof that you're between 12 and 22.) 
If you don't mind standing by ... and even think it's sort of neat because of all the interesting people you meet in airports, your Youth Card can still get you Northwest's regular standby youth fare-nearly 33% off Coach. 
Northwest -a good bet to Florida. 
If you're planning on Florida for break, here's something good to know. North­west has the only DC-10s to Tampa/St. 
Pete and Ft. Lauderdale. And the only 747s to Tampa/St. Pete-plus a daily 747 to Miami. That means lots of seats on 8 Florida flights every day. Which makes your chances that much better if you're flying standby-and your flight that much more comfortable no matter how you're flying. 
Why settle for less? For information or reservations, call a travel agent or Northwest Orient. 


FLY NORTiiWEST ORiENt~ 
New Federal Security Regulations. We suggest that you arrive at the airport 45 minutes before flight departure to allow adequate time for new Federal security procedures. All passengers and their carry-on luggage will be inspected. 

Tuesday, March 20, 1973 the observer 
7 
New S U head plans changes 
by Thomas Bundy Staff Reporter 
Srtt ing his goal as "exploding 
thr mvth that Student. Union is 
composed of an elite caste," 
newlv-instated Student Union 
Director Jim Rybarczyk an­
nounced plans to improve Union . opprations for next :'ear. 
Initially. Rybarczyk plans a 
fpedback system to gather student 
idras and opinions. 
"Thr crucial task is to get ideas 
and people to support them," he 
said. Hr urged all students to get 
involvrd in Student Union ac­
' ivit irs by volunteering their time. 
Hr issued a special invitation to Notre Dame women 
HP issued a special invitation to Notre Dame women to participate in Student Union work. Citing the increasingly important role of womrn on campus, he commented, "Now that women are finally a part of Notre Dame, they want a voice in student affairs, yet very few are willing to volunteer their tinw. rfforts. and ideas for the betterment of social life through Student Union. Their lack of rpsponse this year was my greatest disappointment." 
Looking forward to the 1973-74 school year. Rybarczyk brought up the problem of Mardi Gras plan­ning. 
"This vear's Mardi Gras was one of the n{ost successful of all time, hut if it is to continue. we need a Mardi Gras Chairman to begin work this year," he commented, adding I hat any interested parties may apply by next week, men­tioning the possibility of Mardi Gras' a cancellation of the event. 
He further plans to broaden the SPrvices Commission to include a full range of student services. He listl'd early student directories, morr student trips, and a staff to handle student complaints as several of the expanded activities. 
Newly proposed judicial system offers choice of public or private hearings 
(continued from page I) finding board. following the 
It is a sensitive question, ad-Pxample offered by civil law, while mit ted Wessels. one that applies to sanctions could be reviewed and the whole Board. changed by the Vice President for 
"All board members, not just · . · , studPnts. would certainly have to Advance~ St~dtes. Gordon sand undPrstand they are prohibited Paulumbo s different plans fomented from discussing this information disagreeement in the ASAC which with an~·one outside the Board," he brgan to look hopeless, said addPd. Wrssels. Thr original Gordon proposal for Then Prof. Jerry Jones, a judicial system. under which President of the Faculty Senate, graduates nowlive. was first met mtrred the scene and played an hrad on with an alternate plan important part in breaking the authored by Bar Association deadlock. he said. President Anthony Palumbo. Between the two ASAC Palumbo's system would involve meetings, the GSU called a thr same choice between a public mPeting to discuss the problem and private hearing as is retained and invited Jones to attend. in the latest adopted plan. but Making a cautious entrance into would run the public route through discussion of the proposal, Jones hoth fact-finding and sanctioning clarified the issue and exerted a hoards. whose members would be calming effect on the GSU per­chosen and which would work sonnel. who were, according to through a system which some Wt>ssels. split into two camps, one ASAC members considered too favoring the Palumbo plan, the cumbersome. other more willing to compromise Paulumbo argued that his it. system would protect a "spirit of "His tJonesl presense had a legal purity" by leaving the l'alming affect on the graduates," decision of innocence or guilt to the said Wessels "After he spoke with sole and final discretion of the fact-us about it. both sides modified 
their stands and finally united behind the compromise proposal" that has since been passed by the ASAC. 
Wessels is satisfied with the final plan accepted by the ASAC, he said. stressing the fact that "the graduates have compromised on their first proposal. after much deliberation." • 
One major detail has yet to be decided upon concerning the newly-accepted judicial procedure--that is, the number of studrnts that will be able to serve on the Board. The minutes of the srcond ASAC meeting reported Ihal "no conso'lsus" was reached h~· the Committee in that regard. 
Thr matter of disciplinary sanet ions. and rules which broken \\'ould call down the use of these sactions. are concerns of the ASAC \\'hich have been discussed at great length within various graduate student and official circles, said Wessels. and proposals are ready lo drfine each. An explanation of drliberations in this area of the aftermath of the Lewis Hall affair will appear in The Observer later this \\'Pek. 

STUDENT UNION NEEDS 
Associate Directors  Social Commissioner  
Comptroller  Academic Commissioner  
Business Managers  Services Commissioner  

Cultural Arts Commissioner Mardi Gras '74 Chairman or Chairmen 
If Interested Contact Jim "Ralph" Rybarczyk This Week Tues 3-4:30 



Wed 2-4 Fri 2-4 In Student Union Offices 
We Need Much Help For A Successful Year 
.. 


l ' 
I ~ 
I 
I r 
8 the observer Tuesday, March 20, 1973 



Irish nip Trojans in NIT opener 
Shumate, Brokaw, free throws earn St. Patrick's Day triumph 
Boh Boyd's Trojans hit only one of into a weave during its next two from the line), but Pete possession trying to protect the
by Vic Dorr 

Crotty's four-point play midway one-point cushion. Clay and Gary Sl. Patrick's Day~ 1973, brought through the second half and a Brokaw dribbled away a full 
minute time

1h1• usual festive trappings to New measure of good luck with loose of before the SC York City: green beer. gaiety in basketballs also played big roles in defense deflected a pass, and the triumph, Notre Dame's 16th Shumate grabbed the loose ball out 
llw streets, parades, and 

of mid-air. The Irish center was
shamrocks. Rut last Saturday the of the season. 
fouled while attempting a shot,

Big ('ity added another element to its "Wearin' of the Green" Crotty's hig play came with USC and was awarded two free throws n•l£'bration--it added Notre Dame ah('ad. 50-46. The 6-8 sophomore, a with 0:29 showing. 
against Southern California in the New York-area native, clicked 
"Shue" misfired on his first try
first round of the National In­on the front end of a one-and-one 
from the line, but netted the second 
,·itational Tournament. situation to slice the Trojan lead to 

lo give ND a 67-65 lead. The
thr('c. 50-47. Crotty missed the 

Trojans, who shot 48 per cent for
And the addition was a suc­s('cond free throw, but he followed 

the game, missed on their an­
his shot and netted a short jumperct•ssfulone. particularly for coach swt>ring at

DiggPr Phelps and the Fighting while b£'ing fouled to pull ND to attempt a tie, and 
ShumaiP and 6-10 John Lanbert
within one. The free throw-­Irish haskethall team. 

fought for the rebound along USC's 
Crotty's fourth point within a four­

right baseline. But Lambert
s('(:ond span--tied the game withBut ND's rirst round success-­

1 ipped I he ball out of Shumate's
10:15 remaining.
l'VPn on St. Patrick's Day--did not 

hands--and out of bounds--and ND 
conw t>asilv. The Irish, in their 
awarded with

lirst 11H'£'ting Pver against the i\ free throw by Bill Boyd and a was possession 10 
seconds remaining. Five seconds
lay-in by 6-6 Clint Chapman movedrrojans. sufferPd through a poor­

later Gary Brokaw sunk a pair of
th(' Trojans back in to a four-pointshooting first half and trailed by 

free lhrows to ice the Irish
spread with just over five minutesone at intermission. 32-31. ND fell triumph.

showing but a follow shot by Crotty furl lwr ))('hind during a see-saw and a baseline jumper by Dwight 

st•cond half--th£'y trail£'d by as "We knew they had tremendous
Clay knotted it again at 61.

many as four points with less than talent." said Shumate afterwards, five minutes r£'maining--but "hut w£' didn't think any less of
Shumate followed Clay's basket

Phelps' charges pulled even with ourselves because of it. "I'm just
by sinking the front end of a bonus

liSC with just over three minutes glad I was lucky enough to hit
tree throw situation. but the second 

1!'11. and then rallied at the free those jump shots< a string of three
shot caromed off the rim and rolled 

throw line to claim a 69-65 triumph. outside shots early in the second
free on the floor until Gary Novak half.)

scrambled to regain possession for .John Shumate < who rinished as the Irish. ND worked the ball

tlw game's high scorer with 24 E\·en when we were losing early
inside to Shumate again, and again

pointsl and Gary Brokow ( who in the season," he remembered, "I 
the big sophomore drew a foul.

daimed runner-up honors with 17) knew that talent-wise we were t•ombined for six free throws t>qual to most everyone we played. 
This time, though, he hit both

during those last three minutes of And now that we have experience, 
ends of the one-and-one, and gave

play. and sent the Irish into I think we are ready to play
Notre Dame a 64-61 lead with just

Tuesday's quarterfinal round. anybody."
under three minutes remaining. A

ND's second-round opponent will tip-in by SC's Dan Anderson cut the lion. Crotty Jed the Irish !HD,Boyd(13),andGusWilliams
Shumate and Brokaw paced the

be the Louisville Cardinals, 97-84 rebounding effort with 16, Novak ! 10l. Boyd and Chapman paced SC
Irish lead to one, but Novak's 

Irish scorers. but Pete Crotty and
winners over American Univer­reverse Jay-in on a follow-up kept had 10, and Shumate pulled in on I he boards (eight apiece), while
Gary Novak each had 10 points and 
sity. seven. .John Lamber·t collected seven
ND in front by three with 1:50 

Dwight Clay chipped in seven. 
'bounds and Mike Westra six.
remaining.

The Insh won the game at the Willie Townsend (one point The Trojans, who now own an 18­free throw line, where they con­Anderson's long jumper from the from the free throw line) was the 10 slate. received double-figure Tipoff for tonight's game with n•rted 23 of 33 attempts <coach corner made it 66-65, and ND went only other Irish player to see ac-seoring £'fforts from Chapman Louisville is 9:00. 

Wisconsin captures 
I I 
one-ga.me season by one goal, 4-3 
checking by referee Ron Wilkie. by Jim Donaldson The Irish protested vigorously, but Sports Editor to no avail. 
The way things turned out, Notre It took Wisconsin less than a Dam£''s hockey team could be said minute to make good on the one­to have missed out on the national man advantage, David Pay taking t·hampionship by one goal. And it a perfe.ct pass from behind the net was a tainted goal at that. and beating Irish goalie Mark 
Kronholm from in close, and then 
The Irish. second place finishers lhe Badgers defended tenatiously during the WCHA regular season, lo hang on to their victory and were £'1iminated in the final round clinch their trip to Boston. uf the league playoff by the 
Wilkie's penalty call was ironicWisconsin .Badgers, 8-7, Marchi because he wasn't even supposedJU at the ACC. 
to betofficiating. According to the WCHA. participating playoff
After battling for a 4-'Ufe m the 
teams can name several officialsopener of! he I wo ga~. total-goals whom they do not want to work"£'ri£'s. i\'otre Dame was edged in their games. Wilkie was one of1 he second ga~. 4-3, on a late­

In a scC'n(' all too typical of last week's ND-Wisconsin series, Badger goalie Dick Perkins
those officials named by NotreJ.!<tm(' power play goal. 

slops the Irish from in close.
Dame coach "Lefty" Smith but he Wisconsin, which placed third still endedup doing the series, and Jose. All seven ended in ties. bacco's power play goal at 14:38 in the second ten minutes. in lhe final standings, went on to ultimately .doing in the Irish. Hie Schafer gave the Irish what and a tremendous individual effort The Badgers finally broke the th(' NCAA championship in Boston proved to be I heir only lead of the by Larry Israelson at 19:11. seoring drought just 2:42 into the
Although Smith received no 

lasl W£'ekend. along with league series at 13:52 of the opening Wisconsin converted yet second session when Talafous, who 
explanation for that turn of events 

dwmpion Denver, as the West's games's first period when he another man power advantage into rl£'tted the game-winning goals in
from league officials, he refused to 

n•presenlalive. Lead by Center picked up a loose puck in the a goal t•arly in the third period both the Cornell and Denver games
t•ominent on the situation, or 

lkan Talafous. coach Bob John­Badger's zone and slipped a when Pay deflected Dennis heat Kronhom with a backhander
Wilkie's critical call, after the 

son's sextet captured the national backhander by goalie Dick Olmstead's shot by Kronholm, from the slot.
hil!Pr defeat. 

tit I£' b~· rallying from a 5-2 deficit to P£"rkins. but. again, couldn't retain its lead. 
Noire Dame's Paul Regan an­

l'dg(' Jo:CAC champ Cornell, 6-5, in "When you Jose, you keep your Ian Williams knotted ~he score at 4­
Gary Winchester got that one swNed that goal with an
m·£'rtimt> and topping Denver, 4-2, mouth shut," the disappointed -t with 10:13 gone, taking apass at
back for Wisocnsin at 17:24 with unassisted tally at the eight minute 
in the finals. Denver had romped coach said. front from Bumbacco and
both teams a man short, stealing mark. but only six seconds later,
in ils first round game belting deflecting it past Perkins.
"I feel very sorry for the kids," the puck away from defenseman Dool took a pass from the ensuing Boston College, 10-4. 
Smith commented. "They were Mark S~einborn, faking Kronholkn That was the last shot to get by faceoff and blasted a forty-footer The Badgers probably weren't outstanding all year and to Jose down and scoring. t•ither goalie that night, however. hy Kronholm from lhe left side. 
holhered much the the pressure of Notre Dame wasn't getting any
like lhis is a real misfortune." Perkins. who made several great Israelson got that one back for saves on point blank shots, the Irish. !hough. putting a short
titlt>s aft£'r playing nheir nip and help from the officials in the first
"The two teams were very finished the game with 38 stops and shot by P('rkins after a good setup
tuck s('ri£'s with the Irish. The two game ofthe series eithr, picking up 
Pqual." he continued. "Had we Kronholm wound up with 24. pass by Williams.
tl·arns \H're I ied after every period nine penalties as compared with
gotten lhe break here or there

of hockey they played--except the six against Wisconsin, and the Neither elub was able to Dt>spite falling behind for the
lhings might have been different.

last one.And it took a questionable Badgers took advantage of two of pt>n£'1rate Kronhom or Perkins in third time in lhe game. 3-2, in the
This was an extremely close series

pt>nalty l'allto give Wisconsin what with lots of given and take. It's a tht•ir power play chances to grab a t)](' first period of the second game, final p£'riod. the Irish didn't fold. proyed to be a decisive break. shame that either club :1-1lead in the second period. Steve Pilher. although both had op­Hay lkLon•nzi tied the score againAllev !11:15l and Tim Dool (13:59) portunities. Wisconsin missed wilh l£'ss than ten minutes and
had to lose."
With the s.~.·ore :l-3.and fess than 

seor-ed while Notre Dame had men two power play chances in the first Noire Dam(' was pressuring the :; minutt·s to go in the third period, After the first seven periods of in the penalty box, but the Irish 
half of the session and the Irish BadgPrs when Wilkie sent Noble to:'\oln• I>am(''s John Noble was play. it seemed questionable eamP hack to tie the score before \\'Pre unable to convert on three lh£' penalty box and pavedwhislled off the ice for cross-wlwther or not either team would ill(' pPriod ended on Eddy Bumb-oeeassions with a man advantage Wisconsin's road lo Boston. 





