On The Inside 
Abortion debate ... page 3 Concert review ..• page 5 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VIII, No. 24 Monday, October 8, 1973 

Israelis gain 
•
upper hand lD Mideast strife 
by Thomas (:heatham 
Tel .6vi UPI 
Isreal Sunday night reported hundreds of Egyptian tanks stranded on the Israeli side of the Suez Canal and Syrian advances largely blunted to th~. ':lorth: Israeli warplanes maintained "the upper hand m stnkes deep iPto both Arab nations. 
A military spokesman said Israeli jets had destroyed nine of the 11 Egytptian pontoon bridges across the Suez Canal. 
A military spokesman called the situation offluid but said both the Egyptian and Syrian attackers in Israeli territory were suffering heavy losses on the groun~ while' being unwilling or unable to challenge Israeli pilots hitting their air bases and ground defenses. 
"Good results" were reported in the air strikes. 
·There was no indication how far the Egytptians had penetrated across the Suez Canal-one report from the scene said they were stopped at the waters edge-but the Syrians were said to be holding on bridgehead in the Golan Heights. 
The national radio said Israeli losses were "not insubstantial" in some areas while heroics, including one tank knocking out 17 Syrian tanks, were com­monplace. 
total routing 
Air and artillery attacks against the Egyptian and Syrian troops continued into the night, the radio said, in order to "press the Israeli advantage ... total routing is believed to be only a matter of time." 
"After a day of heavy armor-to-armor battling, the Egyptian army has concentrated several hundred tanks east of the Suez Canal based at two bridgeheads in the northern and central sectors" and updated communique said at llp.m. 5 p.m.EDT. 
"Our defending forces have established new defense lines opposite the bridgeheads. The Egyptians set up about 11 bridges across the canal. In air attacks that are continuing at least nine of these bridges have been destroyed or hit." 

considerable casualties 
The communique added "considerable casualities have been suffered by the Egyptian armory in tank battles and our air attacks. The dimensions of our forces increase with the addition of new formations mobilized in the past 24 hours." 
The radio said Israeli troops in the battle were under heavy artillery fire after dark as the Egyptians ap­parently tried to cover a bridge-repair operation. 
To the north, the communique said,"Syrian forces succeeded in making a number of ground advances" in fierce combat during the day but"lsrael ground at­tacks aided by air support have repulsed them in most sectors. 
"By evening, the Syrians were still holding a portion of Israeli territory in the central sector of the heights. 
But Israeli lines had been stabilized along most sectors of the front and the enemy is paying heavy losses in battles and air strikes. 

good results 
The air war saw Israeli war planes attacking what the communique described as air-fields deep inside Egypt, Syria's antiaircraft system: the Egyptian bridges across the canal and Arab soldiers on the ground-"all with good results." 
Israeli pilots who engaged enemy aircraft had the upper hand." 
Retired Major General Haim Herzog, former head of the Isreaeli intelligence service met with foreign newsmen earlier in the day to bring them up to date on 
the Israeli view of the situation. 
\. 
By Board of Commissioners 


Rybarczyk impeached 
by R. Thomas Thues Staff Reporter 

The Student Body Board of Com­missioners unanimously impeached Jim Rybarczyk, Student Union director, Friday during an emergency meeting concerning the Homecoming ticket con­troversy. 
The statement issued to Rybarczyk by the Board of Commissioners read: 
"By a unanimous vote, the Student Body Board of Commissioners has voted to impeach Jim Rybarczyk. The decision was reached after a careful and thorough consideration of all possible consequences. 
"The issue at hand reaches far beyond the visible confrontation over the Southern Cal. tickets. The ticket controversy is the culmination of events reflecting the director's attitude. We feel such an at­titude jeopardizes the essential function of the Student Union, namely its overriding obligation to provide the Student Body with social services. 
"This action is taken only with respect to Jim Rybarczyk; therefore, we sincerely hope the Student Union Commissioners will reconsider the stance taken in their petition." 
"We realize the responsibility we are taking; therefore, we are ready to work harder than before to meet it. This is our assurance to the Student Body." 
The statement was signed by all nine members of the Board of Commissioners. 
Immediately after Rybarczyk was impeached Student Union Commissioners Ken Muth, Pete Bohlander, Bob Fahrenbach, and Jim Nowalk gave their written resignations to Student Body President Dennis Etienne. 
The opinion of the S.U. commissioners was summerized in S.U. Comptroller Fahrenbach's letter of resignation. The following is the text of Fahrenbach's letter: 
"The charges against Jim Rybarczyk are both ridiculous and unjust. No wrong doing was committed and certainly no corruption proven. The only result of your actions is to deprive the students of the best Student Union Director in the past few years. This years Student Union started out with possibilities for the best year yet. All the programs were running smoothly: the programs started last year that were so successful were being expanded and many others were in the planning. In addition new financial controls were being worded out to enable Student Union to stay within its budget and to aid in the transition at the year's end. The spirit up here (in the SU office) was really high, and everyone was enthusiastic about the year's possibilities. However, an action which Jim took based on what has been accepted in the past by those in authority has been blown out of proportion. It is hard for me to comprehend that the only motive behind the Board's stand is the welfare of the students. In light of what I consider to be a totally unjustified and hostile action by you, I hereby regretfully submit my resignation." 
Student Union Associate Director Ken 
Mnth added to Fahrenbach's letter saying 
that "before the fact, the Student 
Society sponsors 

Etienne 

Government could have forbid such ac­tion. This was notdonenor apparently even contemplated. Also, after the fact, the Student Government should have ruled that in the future such sales could not take place." 
Muth summerized his impression of the impeachment by calling the Board of Commissioners' action" a political action to des_troy a non-political organization." 
Etienne's comment, after the im­peachment, was, "Precendent is too easy a crutch to use. Relying on precedent shows lack of thought. I hate to see where mankind would be today if precedent were the only justification for its actions." 
Etienne released a late statement Sunday night citing an oversight on the part of the Board of Commissioners. In the statement Etienne emphasized that Rybarczyk was impeached, not removed from office. Another meeting of the Board of Commissioners will be held October 15 "to determine appropriate action." 
When made aware of Etienne's Sunday night statement Muth said that he and the rest of the Student Union commissioners 
will probably wait for the October 15 decision to finalize their resignations. 
While Rybarczyk is undergoing im­peachment Drew Costarino has been appointed acting Student Union Director. 
In the event of his permanent ap­pointment Costarino's comment's were, "I'm sorry I'm taking over this position the way I am." He continued, "I hope that the Student Union commissioners see themselves clear to stay on because we're working for the students." 
Rybarczyk was called away for the weekend and unavailable for comment. 
first black forum ... 

see page 2 
Monday, October 8, 1973
the observer 

world briefs 
Washington--Attorneys for reporters subpoened by Spiro T. Agnew's legal counsel conferred Sunday on plans for contesting the move to track down leaks about the criminal investigation of the vice president. 
The Justice Department meanwhile planned to submit a brief in Baltimore Monday replying to Agnew's argument that the Justice Department had tainted its case against him through "malicious and outrageous" leading of information. 
Niccsia, Cyprus--Guerrillas fighting for union of Cyprus with Greece planted land mines on President Archbishop Malarios' route. to pass Sunday, but the assassination attempt failed because the mmes ex­ploded five minutes early, a government spokesman said. 
Saigon--An American and two Vietnamese have been ambusnea m the Mekong Delta and taken captive "apparently by the Viet Cong" a 
U.S. Embassy spokesman said Sunday. 
The American was identified as Homer L. Elm, chief ofsecurityfor compounds of the peace-keeping International Commission of Control and Supervision or ICCS in the Can Tho region. 
an campus taday 
12 noon--meeting, faculty indian i affairs tribe and native americans, 
s. dining hall, faculty room 
4:30 p.m. --lecture, "nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy: a powerful method for probing biomolecuiar structure and dynamics," rm.12J, niewland. 
Bp.m.--lecture,"public policy and urban politics,"lib. aud. 
B p.m.--lecture,"subjects and objects:a re-appriaisal of idealist 
contributions to metaphysics,"biol.aid. 
B p.m. --lecture-discussion,"woody herman in perspective,"la fortune. 
11:00 p.m. --radio recital,william cerny, wsnd-fm. 

New Frontier Scholastic Society 
MESBIC program outlined 
by James Stewart Staff Reporter 
The New Frontier Scholastic 
Society held the first in a series of 
Forums on the black experiences 
in America on October 2 in the 
Black Cultural Arts Center. 
The forum topic was MESBIC 
<Minority Enterprise Small 
Business Investment Company): 
Is it theoretically and practically 
applicable to the Black Experience 
in the United States?" 
Speakers were Dr. Frederick 
Dow, Professor of Management 
and Travel, and Matthew Min­
nicks, MBA Businessman. The 
forum moderator was Clark 
Arrington, a 3rd year law student. 
Professor Dow presented general information on the MESBIC Program and its thrust: the creation of a black en­trepreneurial class and how the resources of Notre Dame will be utilized in the project, including consultation to minority en­trepreneurs by students par­ticipating in the minority business seminar. 

ND's Buchignani elected student GOP treasurer 
The Indiana Federation of College Republican Clubs, after a hard-fought campaign, elected state officers Sunday. Leo Buchignani, Notre Dame Chair­man, was elected State Treasurer on a team ticket headed by Mae McNought of Wabash College. 
The votes of Tricia Lauerman and Peggy Fredricks; St. Mary's Chairman and Vice-Chairman, Leo Buchignani , ND Chairman, and Mark Soudet, ND Vice-Chairman 
partly accounted for half the margin of victory as "The McNought Team" won state office for a year. 
The ND-8MC clubs plan to work jointly during the year on all projects projected. The major projected. event for they year is a second semester campus ap­pearance for Sen Howard Baker of Tennessee. This event is still in the planning stages. 
The Observer is publiShed dally during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S8 per semester !Sl-4 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana .46556. Second class pOttage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
<46556-• ' ' ' ' 
Minnicks emphasized the non­productive track record of MESBIC's in other areas. He noted that all SBIC <Small Businesses) had experienced an 83 per cent failure rate while the failure rate of MESBIC's approached 90 per cent. Thus, Minnicks questioned the rationality of an individual desiring to become a businessmen pursuing the MESBIC route. 
Inquiries from the audience dealt with whether MESBIC's represent an optimal strategy to achieve economic development, whether the creation of a black entrepreneurial class meets the needs of the black community. 
Minnicks answered that the organization backing the MESBIC venture receives substantial tax benefits and goodwill from its participation in the project. His reply raised the question of whether the MESBIC program merely represented another 

means  of outside  elements  ex­ 
exercising  control  in  the  black  
community  under  the  guise  of  

aiding the residents. 
Dow indicated that he would not project the success of the MESBIC project given the experience of other MESBIC's but, asserted if "a few more minority entrepreneurs develop than otherwise would have been the case, the resources utilized in the MESBIC project would have been justified." 
The insights raised by this forum and the participation aroused is hoped to carry over into the future forums presented by the New Frontier Scholastic Society. 
Multi-media show presented to alumni 
by Thomas O'Neil Staff Reporter 
Notre Dame Alumni were en­tertained last weekend by an Alumni Asociation multi-media presentation of "Notre Dame in Review". It was conducted in the Library Auditorium at 11:00 A.M., Saturday, before the Notre Dame­Michigan State game and was the second in a series of such productions offered on home game weekends. 
The presentation began with a capsule history of the school shown through a series of slides and movies, narrated by Mike Jordan, 
the Alumni's Assistant Director.· The history acknowledged Father Sorin as the founder of the school he called "Notre Dame du Lac", and later gave credit to the school for having the first college band, student library and dormitQry in the nation. 

This was followed by a slide presentation on the "ND ex­perience" as extended into han­dicapped communities via some concerned and active students. Concluding, it approached the topic of the female element now present on compampus and stressed its advantages. 
By the end of the presentation the Notre Dame Alumni had utilized movies, slides, a folk group, their glee club, a narrator and five guest speakers. The speakers included a faculty member and four students, two male and two female. 
Mike Jordan <Assistant 

Director) and Jim Cooney <Executive Director) are especially thanked and congratulated for their efforts in bringing the alumni the Alumni Association's presentation of "Notre Dame in Review." 
'
. 
I 
t-­






w ND 
SMC 
THEATRE 
SEASON 1973-74 
reservations 284-4176 
Student -Faculty ND--8MC Staff 

$f.50 

Richard III 
Shakespeare's bold history Oct. 9, 10, 11, 12, 13 at 8:30pm 
1 1 '.'. ••• (O'L~.~~~-t~c'~u.dito~i.~m·.<St. Mary's) 

.. .. . . 
', _·,, •t -~ 
' 
..... . ~ 
the theme is a 

BARN DANCE 
dress will be the "country look" (jeans, overalls,----~ etc.) 






TICKETS 

FOR THE HOMECOMING PARTY WILL BE ON SALE ALL WEEK IN THE DINING HALLS 
Stepan Center Fri., Oct. 26 
9:00 p.m. ·1 :OOa.m. 
refreshments rock band 
$6.00 per couple Y'ALL COME NOW, Y'HEAR? 
FR..ID/\Y AI\IL SATUR.DJ\V 


~--~~---------------------­
'fi'{ • f ' ) t.l : ·I· 
Monday, October 8, 1973 the observer 
Pros and cons 

Abortion film details legaldebate 
by Mike Gizinski Staff Reporter 

The film, "The Advocates," originally telecast in November, 1969, presented a debate on the 
Topic, "Should the States adopt legislation allowing any woman to terminate pregnancy at any time during the first three months?" The film was presented in the Center for Continuing Education, Friday, October 5, by Edward Manier, Professor in the Depart­ment of Philosophy here at Notre Dame. About ten people attended. 
for and against 

Arguing in favor of abortion was Max Greenburg, abortion ad­vocate. · Joining him in his argument for abortion were Dr. Edward Overstreet, Vice Chair­man of the Dept. of Gynecology and Obstetrics at the University of California Medical School; Dr. Garrett Hardin, Professor of Biology at the University of California at Santa Barbara. Two women, who remained anonymous, gave reasons why they had had abortions. 
Debating against abortion was Howard Miller who called on the following for support: The novelist Pearl Buck; Dennis Cavanaugh, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology at St. Louis Univer­sity; and Charlotte De Armond of The Children's Home Society. 
Victor Palmieri moderated the debate. 
test of character 

Greenburg opened the debate saying, "Under the present laws, a woman married or unmarried, who faces an unwanted pregnancy, has a tragic choice, either to bear and raise an unwanted child, to give it away, or to abort the em­bryo in a criminal conspiracy. The time has come to assure women the freedom to obtain a legal and safe abortion." 
Miller then responded saying, "The abortion decision is a test of the character of our society. We can either deny and destroy the fetus, or we can act with candor and compassion to meet the problem of the unwanted pregnancy and preserve our values of life." 
couldn't face adoption 

Greenburg then showed a film iii which one of the anonymous un­married women gave her reason for having an abortion, "I couldn't give the child up for adoption, because I could never go through my life wondering where the child was and whether it was happy or alive and well." 
women's rights 
Greenburg felt that under the present system, motherhood was forced upon many women. "In a world of overpopulation," he said, "forcing women to reproduce when they do not want to has no justification." He said that women are not breeding machines but that they had the fundamental right to choose to have an abortion ac­cording to their own consciences with good medical advice. 
He presented another film in which Representative Shirley Chisholm supported abortion. "The decision to terminate pregnancy is a woman's right. It is a private decision which should not involve the state." She added that "no child should have to be born that is not wanted because too many children are psychotic and in institutions." 
incipient life 
In answer to Miller's question 
why a woman should have the right 
to destroy a fetus at three months 
and not at birth, Overstreet 
responded, "This is in terms of 
what women and the public in 
general think about the nature of 
an embryo. They think of it much 
in the same way that you think of 
an acorn as compared to an oak 
tree. It's an incipient life." 
Miller then commented on the 
film of the girl who had decided to 
have an abortion: "The film of the 
girl who wanted an abortion is 
sympathetic but what it amounts 
to is that, because her personal 
unwillingness to face the guilt 
about her child, by putting it out to 
adoption, she was entitled to take 
its life." 
A film of Pearl Buck was 
presented by Mr. Miller. Pearl 
Buck told of her retarded child and 
said that even she had known that 
it was retarded she could not have 
stopped her life "because her life is 
her life." 
very poor substitute 
Cavenaugh said that increased use of. dissemination and con­traception would affect the abortion problem. He said that more sex education, availability and use of contraceptives would be 
Athletic and 
Convocation Center


NOTRE DAME 
Ticket Prices: 
Tickets on sale: 
Bleachers _... _...••• $3.00 
ACC
Lower Arena _________ $5.50 
(Mon-Sat 9 to 5) 
Loge _____ ••••••• ___ $6.50 
and Student .Union 
Plltfor111 .._•••••••• _$6.50 
Ticket Office.
Floor Seats __________ $6.50 

. ......U.-" ,~.~,-·~-·~-~·-·""•"•-··.----··-···-·~--W,-·~~
..r .• 

better than more abortions. 
After a debate with De Armond concerning children's homes ability to handle any more unwanted children, Hardin said that adoption is a very poor sub­stitute for abortion. He added, "I know from many sources that there are simply not enough adoptive homes, and the record of adopted children is not as happy as that of natural children." 
national poll 

At the end of the debate, "The Advocates" said they had con­ducted a national poll. They asked over a thousand individuals the following question: "It's been suggested that every woman should have the legal right to terminate a pregnancy, that is, have an abortion if she wishes at any time durlng the first tw~lve weeks of pregnancy. Are you in favor of this proposal, or are you opposed to it?" 
The people who responded and had not seen the telecast answered as follows: Opposed 52 per cent; in favor, 37 per cent; no opinion, 37 per cent. 
telecast affects vote 
100 people were in a studio of 
public television station KRMA in 
Denver watching the broadcast of 
the debate. Colorado was one of 
the first states to liberalize its 
abortion laws. These 100 people 
responded to the question this way 
before seeing the program. Yes, 35 
per cent; No, 54 per cent; in the 
middle or not voting, 11 per cent. 
After having seen the program 
which presented bothsides of the 
argument they responded: Yes 50 
per cent; No, 50 per cent; not 
voting 0 per cent. 
Closing statements were made 
by both Greenburg and Miller. 
Greenburg ended his argument by saying, "Present abortion laws are brutal. The woman faced with 
the tragic fact of an unwanted pregnancy is treated like a criminal. She either risks being butchered by a back street abortionist or she's forced to ac­cept the compulsory pregnancy." He added that we all suffer the consequences of that unwanted child through delinquincy, crime, welfare costs and mental illness. 

Miller concluded, "The fetus has a capacity for life and to be human and is entitled to protection. Thi~ proposal gives it none, but allows a woman under moments of depression or strain to destroy its life. In making this decision we are deciding not only on the life of the child, but we are deciding on the character of the entire society." 

DON'T FORGET! 

$25 DEPOSIT FOR MIAMI TRIP DUE FRIDAY AT TRAVEL BUREAU 
How Can You Pass This Up?? ­-3 days & nights in FABULOUS MIAMI -Optional Disneyworld trip -ND vs MIAMI 
{call 233-9555 for info) 


The way to buy the insurance you need but may feel you can't afford. 
For further information call: 233-3104. Talk to: 
JOHN COUNSELL 
The Mutual Life Insurance Company Of New York 


M0NY 
MUTUAL OF NEW YORK 




,... _
;._.._._1•1•6•6•.S•,.c•.~.:t.'s•.~•.~•.,~•.~.·~.,P.J.~.•'~•.9.~•e•r•L•ev.e.l)...._. 
..--------------------­
-




THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Art Ferranti Executive Editor 
Lee Gentine Business Manager Jerry Lutkus 
Dan Barre«
Editor-'in-Chief 
Executive Editor 
NEWS: 283-1715 
John Kloos
EDITORIALS: 283-8661 
Advertising Manager
BUSINESS: 283-7471 
Monday, October 8, 1973 

Victory for Principle 
Friday the Board of Commissioners made the decision to impeach Student Union Director Jim Rybarczyk. 
In doing so, they ignored the entire 

Student Union staff's threat to resign 
should Rybarczyk be impeached. 
And that decision to stand on principle rather than shrink before the threat of temporary inconvenience could well stand as the Board's most momentous and positive decision since its conception last year. 
For it was indeed a statement of prin­ciple. The action represented the restatement of what the Student Union is indeed supposed to be--a student service. 
And during the past week, Student Union did much to undermine the confidence of the student body it is supposed to serve. 

There are few students who would object to the claim that the people who work throughout the year for the Union without pay do in fact deserve some form of reward. Most service groups find some way to reward those who unselfishly donate their time. 
But Rybarczyk's admitted decision to sell to Union members over 10 per cent of the tickets alloted by the athletic depart­ment to the student body for the homecoming game against Southern Cal was a decision that led to very valid questions about the Union's first service priority.

r 
r 
And those questions were not suitably 

~ 
answered. When the Observer reported Thursday

t 
that Rybarczyk felt that "his first responsibility was to the people in the Student Union organization," he revealed a need for the student body to reassert their claim to the Union as a truly "ser­vice-oriented" organization. 
It then became the work of the student body's representative group, the Board of Commissioners, to restate the Union's first priority. And it became apparent that Rybzrczyk's impeachment was necessary if that statement of priority was to be of any real substance. 
If the action seems harsh, the motivation for that action should be examined closely. 
Obviously, our student government's legislative arm saw the real need to dispel any doubts about the focus of the Union's attention. 
And students should be extremely grateful that one group on campus decided 

daanesbury 

to paint things black and white instead of a meaninglesss shade of grey. Why single out the Rybarczyk ad­ministration as the target for the 
restatementof purpose? Why victimize this man when his claims could well be true thatpastUniondirectors have followed the same practice? 
Because the practice is wrong right now. 
Because this time the practice was very unwisely followed for an event whose importance to the student body demanded, above all, other events, a total com­mittment of the students as number one. And because good service organization people would have readily recognized both the temperment of the situation and the consequences of such unwise decisions. 
There are undoubtedly many talented people who will sever their ties with the Union following the Board's decision. But in resigning their posts, they ally them­selves with the very ideal that the Board was censuring. They are saying that their reward as volunteer workers should be held above the interests of the students. Their talents notwithstanding, they too, must depart if a real change in priorites is to take place. 
Director Jim Rybarczyk and his staff made their positions very clear throughout the past week. The student body, through their elected represen­tatives, made their position equally as clear this past Friday. They chose the principle of service as more important than the convenience of a smooth-running operation whose priorities stand in question. 
It would be well for all those who hold positions of authority in service organizations, both at Notre Dame and elsewhere, to recognize thatsamefact that 
director Rybarczyk "conceded" in that same Observer article last Thursday--that they are "ultimately responsible to the students.'' 
-Butch Ward 

Editorials printed in The Observer reflect the opinion of the writer on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the individual writer; they are not to be taken as indivh;iual comment. 
wanderers 


A Classic Situation 

fred anlczak 

Cast your minds back to the 5th century B.C.! Back! Back to ancient Athens, cradle of western civilization, and home of Spiro's forebearers. Today let us consider for our amusement their system of justice. 
The system became gradually very sophisticated, mostly just from all the practice they had; everyone was constantly suing everyone else. As the city had grown rich, the stakes got higher and the shrewdness more refined. In other words, the Athenians (even those most prominent and those in public service) felt no remorse over ripping off their neighbors (and constituents)jf they thought they'd get away with it. Their word for "wicked man" is kakos, which means not "the guilty one," but "the shamed one," the one who got caught. 
Many did get caught, even some of Athens' foremost citizens. 
Curiously, some of the most obviously guilty were set free wholly un­
punished and unrepentant. These, faced with conclusive evidence, tried 
no emotional appeal of innocence: They freely admitted guilt, or didn't 
mention it at all, in either case the question of guilt didn't matter. 

Apparently guilty defendants, and even those who freely admitted guilt, 
successfully pleaded for acquittal by claiming that they were 
agathos -literally, "useful one," a poobah of the community, too 
important to be canned everything considered. It was as if society didn't 
dare consider punishing such a man for his crime, since he did so much 
for the community. It was one kind of blackmail, a kind of "might makes 
right." In the words of Mr. Lutkus' Friday Observer editorial, they 
"turned the question of principal into a question of practicality." 

Student Union Director Jim Rybarczyk was called before the Board of Commissioners last Thursday evening. Incidentally, the Board is made up of the SBP and VP, and the student SLC representatives, together all of the most reponsible officers elected by the Student Body. Anyway, the Board met to decide whether to impeach Rybarczyk-not for the inconveniences of the Fiesta Fiasco in general, but for giving the Union itself such a vast break in prior ticket availability, 
Rybarczyk's own figures indicated guilt: for instance, all the signs that the Student Union themselves posted to advertize the sale quoted 240 sets 
as available (I saved one of these signs myself if someone would like to see proof), but Rybarczyk himself was quoted in Thursday's front page Observer article as claiming "223 sets were sold." He had offered to the Student Body several ways of looking at the disparity (taken from Thursday's and Friday's Observer): 
1) that some students, were they to get tickets, might scalp them, but no Student Union people would (we apparently are not all convinced that their virtue is more dependable that the rabble's). 
2) that the student body should forget it and simply be grateful for the 223 sets. "They (the students) would not have received those if it wasn't (sic) for the Student Union." 
3Hhat Rybarczyk's actions simply followed precedent, and thus somehow unquestionable. 
4)"lt's too fate to rectify the situation." "Rectify," of course means to make right; if one were an optimist, he might think it represented at least some vague, perhaps dawning awareness on the part of the Student Union that something somewhere was wrong after all, persecution complexes aside. 
At that Thursday meeting, Rybarczyk offered none of these excuses; he did not talk about guilt or innocence at all. Rather he presented theBoard a signed petition, threatening the resignations of all the top people at the Union, over 20 in all, if Rybarczyk was fired. It certainly is interesting to see how many thought Rybarczyk's conviction was worth resignation. At any rate, Friday's Observer editorial accurately details exactly what such an act would inflict; surely a man who can do what Rybarczyk claimed he could do to the students is indeed both important and useful. 
On Friday the Board defied the practicalities of the situation for the principal. Rybarczyk, unprecedentedly, was impeached . The only replies so far are the resignations, and a note that Student Government Provost Gregg Smith found taped to the Government offices' door, reading "You have let loose a monster;" one hopes it to be a fraud for many reasons, not the least of which is its uninventiveness. My guess is that Rybarczyk was fired less for his misconduct than for defiantly claiming that even guilt wouldn't matter, as long as you're useful and important. 
taarry lrudeau 
the observer 
I 5HOf/UJ HAVE BUN H0/1£ 1UIO !JAYs A60/ 
Night Editor: Bill Brink
UIHY !5N'T THERE ll 
Assistant Night Editor: Dan Sanchez
SEARCH PARTY Of/T HER£ 

Layout: Maria Gallagher, Marlene Zloza, AI
t.OOKIN6 FOR ME?! 

Rutherford Typists: Mary Romer, Connie Fourre, Dianne Chermside, Carole Reichsteiner, Tom Modglin, Howard Halle Day Editor: Mary Janca Copy Editor: Rick Thues HAL Operator: Bob Steinmetz Picture Screener: Jerome Phillips Night Controller: Joe Abell 
~-----------~-------­

-~ 
1 
I
Monday, October 8, 1973 

the observer 5 

l I 
I
the winners saw the show I 
J 
The New Riders of the Purple Sage and Roger McGuinn, performing at the ACC last Friday evening, put on a very enjoyable and entertaining show. But for the second consecutive time, the Notre Dame audience failed to turn out. And for the second con­secutive time, the N.D. audience missed another winner. 
The New Riders, who headlined the show, could do no wrong. Although this was their first gig in over a month, tey put on an ex­ceptional set, and were well-received by the 2800 people that showed up. 
I missed their first five or so songs 
(mostly Panama Red material I was told) 
while talking backstage with MCGuinn and 
noted Byrd authority Walt Brown. When I 
finally pulled myself out of the dressing 
room, I made it just in time to see one of the 
amps fail---shadesof Pure Prairie League!! 
After a ten minute delay, the group played 
"Dim Lights,, Thick Smoke" from 
Powerglide and "You Shoulda Seen Me 
Cryin" with vocal by Marmaduke and nice 
pedal steel by Buddy Cage. 
The group surprised the audience with a 
rousing version of "School Days" by Chuck 
Berry which featured a strong vocal by 
bassist David Torbert and fine lead guitar 
lines by David Nelson. 



As usual for the beginning of the season, the entertainment on the whole portends good viewing for this week and, looking into the future schedules on both the network and local levels, in the many weeks to come besides. 
Perhaps the most unique of the coming films is an all new Dracula this Friday. It even takes a new tack. This one explores the reasons that lead the little count to become such a mettlesome little cuss. In the role of the world's greatest women mesmerizer and neck biter supreme is Jack Palance who a few years ago turned in a terrifying performance in the also made­for-TV Dr. Jekyii-Mr. Hyde. Lest you think this is not a horror story by my description, let me put your mind to rest. Palance should elicit as much terror as Lugosi or "Hello Mary-Lou" made famous by Rick Nelson with skillful guitar by David Nelson (no relation, gang), and "Glendale Train," with Buddy Cage playing sliding steel in simulation of the train. 
The second set was even better, probably because it featured more familiar tunes. Included were some of their best stuff in both rock and country-rock. 
They opened with "Country Melody" which featured rock-style steel guitar. "One Too Many Stories You Told" had meticulous cymbal work from Spencer Dryden and nice steel again. "She's No Angel" was a rollicking country song with a David Nelson vocal. 
My favortie song from their albums, "I Don't Need No Doctor," was played with a seething steel and contained an impressive duet between Cage and Nelson. 
Three softer songs followed-"Sutter's Mill" with finger picking electric guitar; "Last Lonely Eagle", and American 
beauty from their first album; and "Louisiana Lady", a definite crowd­pleaser. 
The Riders rocked out with their last number, "Willie and the Hand Jive," which turned into an extended jam and seemed to climax their performance perfectly. Spencer Dryden opened it with a drum solo and the band belted it for fifteen minutes. 
Their well-earned encore was the Stones' "Honky Tonk Woman" and featured Marmaduke miming Mick--strutting, leering, pouting, grabbing the mike, etc. I think even Mick would have enjoyed it. The song, aside from the parody, came off well. 
Overall, the New Riders proved them­selves to be exciting, quite talented, and very satisfying. They could have played all night long as far as I was concerned. 
On the other hand, Roger McGuinn, my hero, the man who I half-predicted would blow the New Riders off the stage, didn't. Judging from the audience's response, McGuinn fared pretty well, but there were a number of things that kept me from fully enjoying him. 
He started out beautifully with the oep­ning riffs of "Lover of the Bayou," the old Byrds traditional opener. But in place of a guitar solo (such as was brilliantly done by Clarence White--late of the Byrds, and sadly, the world) there was ... nothing. just McGuinn repeating the riffs and the keyboard player playing about the same notes. 
Sc:reen 




a new dracula 
Christopher Lee, but I have yet to see a i Richard Jaeckel. On the other hand, James Dracula as scream-level scary as the \ McEachlin prmieres as the hen-pecked 
Stevenson, and Loretta Swit (the last two from M+A+S+H.) This one concerns six guys who carry the game of basketball too far and after a fight ensues, decide to hide basketballs in the city for the other team to find. The tricks become dirtier as they become more desperate. It airs Tuesday on ABC opposite Bixby's new show on NBC 
"The Magician", 

A better bet would be the third rotating member of the CBS "New Tuesday Night Movie" clan, Shaft which premieres this week. Richard Roundtree recreates his movie role as the ace Harlem detective in this all new series which is promoted to be less violent and less racist. In this first episode the so-called black Bogart finds in this quest of the murderers of a lawyer and client Robert Culp, Dean Jagger, and 
original silent version of the Bram Stoker novel. Another plus for the movie is Richard Matheson doing the screenplay. He r t th · -. ­
H w 0 1
e e ~ ~ ori~ma ~tory and th~ screenplay for. ABC s Mo':Ie of the Week Duel w.IthDenms We_~ver bemg run ~own ~y a mama cal. truck dnver · Van Helsm? will get Drac With a st.ake as usual. so don t. fret t<;~o much. (No~e ..I do not h,st the times su~ce the TV GUide m Tursday s Observers prmt those schedules.> . 
Al.so on the slate of made-for-TV fil!Ds (~h~ch seem to be ~etter than those whi<:h ongmally appeared m the theaters) there IS Shirts-Skins -a quasi-comedy-drama with Bill Bxby, Doug McClure, McLean black private eye in the "NBC Wednesday Mystery Movie" as Tenafly. The opening show, incidentally, has filmland's Knute Rockne, Pat O'Brien, as a syndicate
chieftain. Is no tradition sacred? On Wednesday also is Don't Be Afraid of 
'the Dark with Jim Hutton and Kim Darby being terrorized in a house by midget demons. Tonight Patty Duke is terrorized in another house in You'll Like My Mother. The catch here is that she's widowed and pregnant and theterrorizers are human. All in all, both films will probably deliver. little. A good option tonight is a classic Western­football style the Cowboys vs the Redskins 'Nuff said. ' · · Probably the worst film Dustin Hoffman 
pat small 
He did an up-beat version of "Get To You," off the Notorious Byrd Bros. album, which featured all-around good paino and went into a funky "Hanoi Hannah" but McGuinn's rhythm guitar was buried (purposely?) and the ending was ininspired. 
Besides, what thz hell was McGuinn doing being funky anyway? 
On the next number, "My Back Pages", he announced that "We're gonna do an oldie just like the guy said in the paper," which certainly thrilled me to pieces, for obvious reasons. However, the majestic 12-string solo in the origianl version was relegated to the last few notes, which really wasn't too thrilling. ­
Another oldie but funky was "Take A Wiff On Me" which had a great phased, fuzzy, airy sounding guitar solo but Clarence White's vocal was missing. "Lost My Drivin' Wheel" was all right with a good organ solo. 
While McGuinn was switching guitars, Mike Walker _played a pretty piano into to "Sweet Mary" and as the lights dimmed, McGuinn revealed his glow in the dark light 
ever did airs this Sunday on ABC. John and Mary also stars Mia Farrow as a lonely girl who meets bachelor Hoffman in a singles only bar. It had the promise of being a modern Marty but neither the boyish looks of Hoffman nor that credible premise can save them from a mired script and lack of · appeal. Hoffman no more needed this movie to help his illustrious career than Linda Lovelace needs a tonsilectomy (I've been waiting three weeks to use that one). Another film is "The ABC Suspense Mo'vie" entry called Double Indemnity with Richard Crenna and Lee J. Cobb, based on James M. Cain's thriller of a novel of the same title. The final film is NBC's repeat of The 
Anderson Tapes -the terrible adaptation of 
the best selling novel. In this version which 
stars Sean Connery, Dyan Cannon, and Alan 
King as a mobster, the surveillance and 
bugging take a back seat and are never 
intrinsic to the story which is a relatively 
stock robber~ that ends in an anti-climactic 
manner. The theft is bungled from a whole 
different source and the tapes are erased in 
the end. In the novel, the tapes caught the 
crooks. Catch the comedy shows on CSB 
Saturday instead. 
With apologies to John Shaft, the real, original, and inimitable Humphry Bogart stars in The Desperate Hours Saturday evening on 16 at ten. This was Bogey's second to last films and one of his best. He plays a gangster who holds Frederic March and his family captive while he and his fellow escaped cons try to further their escape. It is a true gangster film of the finest mold. I could go on about this film but show guitar. The effect was fairly nice and "Sweet Mary" was probably the best tune of the evening. 
An odd piano-solo and a pantomine consisting of McGuinn tuning some dials on an imaginary spaceship (I presume) served as the intro to "Mr. Spaceman." The song came off well, especially the guitar solo at the end (halleluja!). "Rock and Roll Star" chronolgically followed with McGuinn dancing about and soloing beautifully. 
The set ended with "Chesnut Mare" which featured a nice organ intro and a superb blending of keyboard and 12-string in the middle. 
For an encore, McGuinn did "Roll Over 
Beethoven" which was good but perhaps out 
of place. 
McGuinn's band, consisting of John 
Guerin on drumsDavid Vaught on bass and 
vocals, and Mike Walker on keyboards, was 
tight and talented. However, McGuinn, who 
in the past has been an excellent guitar 
player, seems to have relied on Clarencw 
White too heavily during the past five years 
(excpet on a couple of oldies) and shied 
away from his talents. 
I need not say more other than Bogart, and that the supporting cast (Gig Young, Dewey Martin, Martha Scott, and Robert Middleton as a perfectly evil killer) is equally superb. 
Specials and Premiers -Besides "Shaft" and "Tenafly", James Franciscus acts as "Doc Elliot" (once a month( Wednesday. Jackie Gleason returns after a three year hiatus on CBS doing his great characters and a Honeymooner sketch with Art Carney and crew. CBS has paid Gleason $100,000 a year not to act until they had an opening. Glad they did. Now, if only Red Skelton could do something along those lines. "CBS Reports" follows this on Thursday and delves into the withdrawn world of a disturbed child. It is titled "A Boy Named Terry Egan" and his affliction is autism. 
"ABC's Wide World of Entertainment" airs a suspense film week. Tomorrow File it Under Fear will be shown; Wednesday, Moving Target is repeated; and Thursday the series presents Spell of Evil. "In Con­cert" will be telecast Friday. On the CBS Late Movie Thursday, Rod Steiger stars as Ray Bradbury's The Illus.trated Man, an anthology of three stories from the book. It is not too bad a sci-fi thriller, but then it is Bradbury, and that is qualification enough. 
A Trivia Question -Name the following characters vehicles of transporation: a ( The Green Hornet's car; b( Pat Brady's jeep; c( the Magician's license plate; d( Sky King's plane and e) for tried and true trivia buffs, Captain Midnight's plane. 
'lJIJQ JaA{IS aqJ. (a !pJ!q~uos atn .<P !l!J!dS p !uaa amaN (q !.{lneag l(;:rem aq.t (e :sJaA\SUV 

{ , 1 I "1 • •, •, • • "'·"' • 
th'e observer Monday, October 8, 1973 





1.-­
' 6 
~ 




LAST MONTH WE TURNED OUR INVENTORY INTO DOLLARS TO TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THE SUPER LOW DISCOUNTS OUR MANUFACTURERS OFFERED TO US FOR PURCHASING OUR FALL AND CHRISTMAS INVENTORY DURING THIS -THEIR SLOWEST SEASON OF THE YEAR. WELL IT'S JUST ARRIVED SO NOW WE'RE IN A POSITION TO OFFER THE BEST PRICES OF THE YEAR ON NAME BRAND STEREO COMPONENTS -SO COME IN AND TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THESE SAVINGS. 

DYNACO A-25 RECORD CHANGER
MYSTERY RECEIVER 



SPECIALS 
LIST NOW
? 

---list $89.00 GARRARD SL72B 
BASE 

Memorex C-90 325 
? ? 


COVER
• • 

CARTRIDGE 
Marantz 4100___ $49995 

TOTAL 
Pioneer TX-500A $11995 
This receiver is the most respected receiver 
LIST 


under $250 due to its 22 watts RMS/channel, 
$17377 
100 watts IHF and 1.9 FM sensitivity. In two 
Marantz 4060___ $24995 
recent comparisons, one by a leading consumer magazine and another by STEREO 
This speaker was just rated one of the best This popular changer features accurate 
KOSS PRO 4AA __ $59~
REVIEW this model was rated the "BEST 
speakers under $100.00 by a leading con-'cueing, and the ability to track as low as 1 

BUY" in its price class. The manufacturer will 
sumer magazine. It is an exceptional value at gram. Our price includes base, dust cover, 
not let us advertise it at this price. 
our sale price. and ADC 250XE cartridge. Marantz 2440 ___ $29995 

NOW $6995 NOW $97°0

NOW $175 
AND MANY OTHER RECEIVER SPECIALS 
AND MANY OTHER SPEAKER SPECIALS MANY OTHER CHANGER SPECIALS and MANY MORE 
· --MIX-AND MATCH SPECIAL,.:~. _, 
-1 to; ~ :: • • .f .... ­
WE'LL LET YOU SELECT THE PERFECT SYSTEM FOR YOUR NEEDS AND GUARANTEE THE LOWEST PRICE IN THE STATE! CHOOSE FROM NAMES LIKE MARANTZ, PIONEER, SHERWOOD, EPI, KLH, AR, DUAL, GARRARD AND MANY OTHERS. 




Choice Of Brand Name Record Changer With List Price Up To $70. 
SAVE 


UPTO 1. 1 
Choice Of Brand Name 

Choice Of Brand Name 
Choice Of Brand Name
25°/o 
Receiver With List Price Up 

Record Changer With List 
Phono Cartridge With List 
To $240. 

Price Up To S 120. 
Price Up To SSO. 
Choice Of Brand Name 
Receiver With List Price Up 
To S375. 



TOTAL 

LIST PRICE UP TO $425 
Choice Of Brand Name Speakers With List Price 



NOW$299 
Up To $140 pair. 

TOTAL 

LIST PRICE 
UP TO $610 


NOW$459 
TOTAL 

LIST PRICE 
UP TO $960 


NOW$689 





TheAudio Specialists 
310 North Michigan, South Bend, Indiana 46601 
BANKAMERICARD • MAITERCHARGE FINANCING 
12-8 Weekdays 12-5 Saturdays Phone 232-1611 
-.... , " ~ •• " " .... 11'~11 ............ ~ ... ' ~ .... . 
••__................ ·' -· •• ,/It •• ·' .......•...·~:-.... ~~~~,._.;·_'... :.··.~ ......:···~ • ~"· ,' ... ,, • ' •• ~ ~ ~ .. 

~ -~-----~­
Monday, October a, 1973 
the observer 
Band returns to traditional route 
Band members returned to their traditional pre-rally march last Friday and received a favorable response. 
by Jim Dona then 
Staff Reporter 

Friday night, the Notre Dame Band re.turned to its traditional march around campus before the Michigan State pep rally . "Generally, everything was ex­cellent and the co-operation of the student body was St;perb," said band president Bob Swanson. 
Last spring, the five officers and ten staff members of the band decided to alter the normal pep rally routine. As a result of their decision, the band marched directly from Washington Hall to Stepan Center before the Nor­thwestern rally. 
There were three main factors 
involved in this decision according 
to Swanson. 
First, the band hoped to do away with the necessity of "protection" for its members by shortening their pre-rally marches. "At times, the people protecting the bandsmen outnumbered the students who were following us," Swanson recalled. "We feel that there should be no need for protecting the band from its own student body." 
Secondly, since fewer students 
Pre-law society 
visit the campus to speak with by Gary Allietta potential law students. The Pre­Staff Reporter Law Society is the chief contact for these people. Guerra said that every year the Students interested in pursuing a society has a law symposium and a 
legal career might contact the specialty night when lawyers tell Notre Dame Pre-Law Society about their specific fields of organization. Bob Guerra, group practice. Most general meetings president, said that the society are unplanned and occur at the offers students unique op­speakers convenience. Mem­portunities concerning law school. bers receive information about "The purpose of the society is meetings through a monthly 
exactly as the name implies,"said newsletter distributed in the halls. Guerra, "to provide members with Students often wonder what information about every facet of qualifications they need for law the profession of law." Speakers school. A survey of 1973 Notre 
are the main source of thein­Dame graduates applying to law formation provided to the mem­schools show a diversity of 
bers. Lawyers, law school deans qualitives depending on the school and other law students frequently applied to. Acceptances ranged 
from a GPA of 2.5 and a LSATND studentin]·ured score ?f 560 to an average GPA of 
3.86 With an average LSAT of 716. 
Notre Dame grads accepted into ND law school averaged a GPA of 
3.59 and LSAT's of 636. 
Anyone interested in joining the Pre-Law Society should call 
by Paul Colgan Staff Reporter 

Thomas P. McKenny, a Notre Dame student, was struck and injured at 2:34a.m. Friday, Octo­ber 5, by a South Bend Bureau of Sanitation truck at South Bend A venue and Eddy Street. 
The driver, Ralph H. Weller, and two workmen, Ray Wroblewski and Bradley A. Kring all of South Bend, were thrown from the truck when it overturned. 
• They were treated and released with minor injuries. 
McKenny, a senior from Holly, Michigan, suffered a con­cussion and back injuries when he was dragged about 20 feet by the truck. He was Ulken to St. Joseph Hospital where his condition is listed Sunday as good-. 
According to police reports, the truck overturned and struck 
McKenny when it hit a curb while swerving to avoid McKenny 
Need 2 GA tix Navy. Call 272­
0620.
WEEKEND PACKAGE-$1 ooo
and some companions in the crosswalk. The truck was headed 
Need 2 USC tix. call Chuck 234­
PLUS FREE CAMPING ON THE GROUNDS 
2542.
east and had the green light. 
$l oo Discount on $l ooo Ticket With This Ad At The Gate
Fr. Matthew Miceli, rector of 
Desperately need 2 USC tix.
Cavanaugh Hall, saw McKenny 
Call 287-1178 after lOpm.
and said that his condition was not 
TAKE 1-465 TO SPEEDWAY-CLERMONT EXIT-
Need 2-4 GA tix USC. Call Scott
serious. "He should be back in 
GO. 5 MILES WEST ON U.S. 136. 
1598.
about 10 days," Miceli said. He must under~o more tests to find 
., ,_ ~ed-~ f;i.A_ tjx, tor..N.ay.y, ·.Wi-11-. •.
IRP---IMSA-'73
out the extent of his back injury. 
pay George 287-5698. 
-. '•
-,, 
'~~~~~~~t~~·~~~~~,~~~~~-.~~~,~~'~,~~~~ ,,,\~,-~~-.-.
t •.•• ~! ': .. ··'·'·'., ...... ••• ..:.:.·.·:.•·;.·.·.· ..• ..·.·:.·.·-.·.• · .•· .....· .•· ••· ... -•. ·•• ·!·.·. ·. 
were following the band than in past years, it seemed unnecessary to further exhaust members by a long march after their Friday af­ternoon rehearsal. 
Finally, marching around both quads is not a true tradition. Until the last couple years, pep rallies were held in the old field house. Due to the short distance between the band room and the field house, the band decided to march the south quad in order to draw the attention of the studenfbody. 
When the _rally location 
to Center, around campus before this rally without the protection of the Meat 


JORDAN FORD SUGGESTS: 
Take a football week 

end for only $75! 
Jordan will rent you a Winnebago Trailer that sleeps eight people for any away football weekend for only $75 and 10 cents a mile. You pick up the trailer Friday noon and return on Monday. For more in­formation, call: 
Lois Tranter 259-1981. 
formed 
CLASSIFIED ADS
Guerra at 288-lo96 or stop in at 101 
Need 2 USC tix. Call Michele 4167. 
Need_ many Navy tix. Will pay well. Rich 7802. 
Want to rent or buy Electric or Acoustic piano. 232-9747. 
Need 2 GA Navy tix -Please help me. Bill 3251 
Need 3 GA tix to Navy game. Call Mike 1004. 
NOTICES 
Morrissey Loan Fund can loan up to $150 at 1 percent interest, 1 day waiting period. 
Basement of La Fortune. 11:15­12:15, Mon-Fri. 
GSU Social Committee is looking for members. Be a BPOC; fringe benefits, retirement plan, etc. Call Paul B. at 6615 or 272-7405. 
Students interested in ND-SMC Gay Student Alliance call 7768, Wed or Fri. 7 -9pm _ 
Gay libbers unite! Contact Vince K. 1472 or Benzo 1391. 
Men! -Women! JOBS ON SHIPS! No ex. periey~ce required. Excellent pay. .Wroldwide travel. Perfect summer job or career. Send $3.00 for information. SEAFAX, Dept. L-16 PO Box 2049, Port Angeles, Washington 98362. 
TONY'S SHOE SHOP shoe repair . shoe sales . watchbands -zippers -shoe care supplies -all types of leather repair. ON CAMPUS . 
Behind Adm. Bldg. 
Attacked under Weathertop, Frede uses the Ring and sees the Witch King. He receives a Morgul wound. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Will whoever knows whereabouts of a navy blue blazer missing from a Madeleva classroom 2 weeks ago, Sept. 21, please return it to its owner' I'd appreciate having it back -it took a week to make! Thanks. Mary. 4495. 
FOR RENT 
Room for rent. 8 minutes from ND. Call 232-4545. 
Rooms !40 Mo., rides to school. 233-1329. 

·-•. •. •• •. •. •. < • ... •. •. • ·-·-·-·-·--·--·--· ·--·-·--·: 
nights of rallies because they do pose a threat to bandsmen. However, the band president gave assurances that any bikes ac­cidently left in the band's path won't be abused. 
"We appreciate and thank the student body for their support of the band," said band director Robert F. O'Brien. "We will continue trying to be an organization of which the students can b_e proud," he ad_ded. 
band continued its march around the south quad. It was felt that the march from Washington Hall to Stepan Center, was long enough to inform the students of the rally. 
However, the courtesy of the student body during the first rally and requests (from both students and a petition of bandsmen) for a return to the normal rally march caused the officers and staff to reconsider their spring decision. 
At their last meeting, they decided to experiment marching Squad, a group of students who have acted as bodyguards the past several years. The experiement was almost a total success and the band will continue their pre-rally marches around campus. 
"The band does apologize to those students who found their bicycles tossed over the wires after the band's march," said Swanson. He asks that students refrain from parking bicycles along the band's route on the 
O'Shag. 
Law schools set to recruit here 
FOR SALE 

Yamaha guitar F6-300 (reran $300) Rosewood inlaid pearl, adjustable bridge, hard shell case, excellent condition; David 8427. 
Electrophonic AM-FM sterio, S-track tape, and Garrard changer. 8703. 
Diamonds, engagement rings and wedding rings, at prices you can afford. Ken 1859. 
RIDES WANTED 

Need 'ride to Indianapolis, Oct. 12, St. Louis Oct. 19. Call 5465. 
Ride needed to North Dakota ­can leave 10-17 -Call 1240. 
WANTED 

Want roommate 832 ND Ave. Apt. 2A; 233-1302. 
Need 1 stud, 1 GA USC or 2GA USC. Call Steve 233-7302. 
Vista volunteer needs licensed driver. Share driving vicinity Clayton, Georgia. One way trip. Car expenses paid. Must leave by Oct. 17. Time negotiable. Call 287-8116. 
I am going to be disowned unless I get 3-4 Gen. Ad. tix tor my father for any home game but Air Force. Will pay$$. Call' 4077. 
Desperately need 8 stud. USC tix. Will meet inflationary demands. Call Pat 288-5563. 
Desperately need GA tix tor the Army & Navy games. Call 1364. 
Need GA tix to USC. Call Phil 1598. 
Part time help needed in car wash NEAR CAMPUS. Hours weekdays 7:30am -3:00pm. $1.80-hr. Call 291-2673. 
Need 2-6 GA tix tor USC. Will pay reasonably exorbitant prices. Also need 2GA tix 232-2973. 
Monday, October 8, 1973
the observer 
Irish hang on; shade MSU 14-10 
by Greg Corgan Dame's Bob Zanot, who fumbled the ball on his own 18 where it was
For the past two years the an­recovered by MSU's Wendellnual Notre Dame-Michigan State Moore. The Irish defense shone game has been a defensive once again however stopping thestruggle, and Saturday's contest Spartans for two yards in three was no exception. The Irish came plays and State settled for a 33out on top 14-10 but it took a Mike yard field goal by Dirk Kryt.
Townsend interception on ND's 16 Neither team could put together yard line to preserve the victoty. 
a scoring drive in the thirdAs in 1971 when the Irish won 14­quarter, although punter Brian2, and last year's 16-o win up in Doherty continually gave theEast Lansing, Saturday's game Spartans poor field positionfeatured mediocre offensive 
withhis outstanding kicks. On the·performances, a good defensive day, Doherty punted four times for effort by the Spartans, and an an average of 46 yards includingexcellent showing by the Notre efforts of 47 and 51 yards in theDame defense. 
third period.

The Irish allowed MSU a mere Michigan State set the stage for 151 total yards, giving up only six Townsends' heroics and narrowedfirst downs and holding State the margin to 14-10 in the openingquarterback Charlie Baggett to minutes of the fourth period when 
only four completions in 13 at­an errant Tom Clements pass was
tempts for 57 yards. The Irish pursue Charlie Baggett, MSU's quarterback ...
intercepted by linebacker Ray"We're lucky we played Nester on the Notre Dame 22 anddefense," noted head coach Ara returned all the way for the touch­at this point as if things mightParseghian, "it was a great 
down. already have been decided butdefensive performance by our ball 
club. In fact, Michigan State Speaking of the play Parseghian second half mistakes kept the 
Spartans close.

hasn't scored off our defense in noted, ";r'hat was my fault, I called four years." the play ontheinterception. It was Notre Dame had two chances to The Irish Eye Michigan State _head coach intended for Eric Penick and he score in the fourth quarter but Denny Stolz echoed these sen­was wide open, nobody within 10 could capitalize on neither op­
portunity. A drive stalled on the
timents. "Notre Dame is a damn yards of him. But Clements had 
MSU 13 when Clements and
hurt his hand--he numbed it. Thegood team. They have great 
Bullock missed connections on a
defensive players and a solid of­ball just got away from him on the Ray Nester nearly made a prophet out of Denny Stolz, Michigan State's 
handoff and Michigan State's Mike
fense. I don't think anyone can interception." head football coach. So did Dirk Kryt. And so did Charlie Baggett. Those 
Duda recovered. Later, with a
pass well against them. They had Nonetheless it was ND's fifth three players and the rest of their green-and-white clad teammates came 
little over aminute to go, Simpson
us covered almost all the time. offensive turnover of the game and into Notre Dame Stadium Saturday with a Stolz admonition ringing in
fumbled Doherty's punt on the
these mistakes were the Spartans their ears:When our receivers were open we 
State 13 and Irish tackle Steve
couldn't get them the ball." needed to keep them in the contest "The best people don't always win football games. The best-prepared
Sylvester recovered. The offense
"Our offense, particularly in the 
Fortunately, the Spartan people win them."
stalled once agin, and State took
receivers were covered on one second half, did not execute up to And once they entered the stadium, jammed with its usual capacity
over. But with 10 seconds to go
particular play midway through our normal standards," offered crowd of 59,075, the Spartans took their coach's words to heart. Despite
Baggett had a desperation pass
the fourth quarter. With the score Ara. "Our offensive mistakes not falling behind at the half, 14-0, MSU performed like the better-prepared 
intercepted by Rudnick and the
14-10 in favor of the Irish, MSU had only kept us from scoring but gave team for much of the second half. They outscored the Irish 10-Q during the 
game ended.

drivern 64 yards and was them all of their 10 points as well. final 30 minutes, and limited Notre Dame to 33 yeards total offense after 
We made too many mistakes, but Despite the close score Notre intermission.
threatening on the ND 24. Baggett 
dropped back to pass and spotted give credit to the Spartans because Dame did dominate over­"It was our pride and character that brought us back into the game," Damond Mays streaking down the they played a fine football game." whelmingly statistically. The Irish said Stolz. "We made some defensive adjustments at halftime, going to right sideline. He let loose, but the However, the Notre Dame of­had 17 first downs and 299 total our linebackers more and getting a better pass rush on (Tom) Clements." ball was picked off chest-high by fense did show signs of breaking yards. Clements was 7 of 12 for 107 "Pride" and "character" may have had a lot to do with it, but so did safety Townsend. The senior from things open in the second quarter. yards while the leading ballcarrier Stolz' ace-in-the-hole-preparedness. MSU's linebackers and deep Hamilton, Ohio picked up a couple Takin g the ball on their own 20, the was Wayne Bullock with 77 yards secondary shut off ND's passing routes during the second half <Clements of blocks from Reggie Barnett and Irish "0" drove 80 yards in 13 in 21 attempts. The crucial passed three times and garnered but 10 yeards, after throwing for 125 Tim Rudnick and returned the ball plays with Wayne Bullock going statistic was turnovers however. yeards in the first half), and linebacker Ray Nester was so well-prepared 47 yards to the MSU 37. over from the one foot line. Bob The Irish had two interceptions for one Clements aerial, a toss into the right flat intended for a receiver 
"We were in man-to-man Thomas kicked the extra point, and lost three fumbles while out of the backfield, that he drifted Into the pass route, intercepted the coverage," said Townsend, "and moving into sixth place on the all­Michigan State had two passes throw, which was low, and returned it 22 yards for State's only touchdown when Mays went in motion, he time NCAA list for consecutive intercepted (only one of any of the afternoon. became my man. When the ball Pats, and made the score 7-o. consequence) and one fumble lost. Ara Parseghian credited Nester's touchdown to more than State's was released, I knew either I A couple of minutes later the Coach Parseghian, while not preparedness, though. "That play was my fault," he lamented. "I called would intercept it or Reggie Irish regained possession at the pleased with his team's offensive the play on the interception. It was intended for Eric Penick, and he was Barnett would. He slipped and the ND 37 and began their second showing, did emphasize one point. wide open upfield-nobody within 10 yards of him. ball came to me." scoring drive. Clements tossed a "We won," he said, "and that's the "But Clements had an injured hand when he threw the pass. He 
Not only did the ball come to screen pass to tight end Dave important thing. We lose sight of numbed it, and the ball got away from him on the interception." Mike, but the game came away Casper who rambled 30 yards to the fact that we did win. It's a real The Spartans were also prepared for Bob Zanot's fumble following the from the Spartans. It stopped their the State 33, and then two plays tragedy that people come into the first MSU punt of the second half. State covered the ball, took possession lone drive of the day and gave the later Clements, from the thirty, hit locker room with their heads down on ND's 18-yard line and, four plays later, gained the scoreboard for the Irish field position from which they split end Pete Demmerle on a hook as if we had lost the ball game. We first time with a 33-yard field goal by Dirk Kryt. eventually ran out the clock. pattern which he broke for ten also lose sight of the fact that we Nester tallied on his interception return nine minutes later, and it 
Michigan State didn't manage to more yards and the touchdown. are a young ball club. We're going appeared, at that point, that the Spartans were prepared to upset the get on the board until six minutes Thomas again added the point and to make mistakes, but we're also nation's eight-ranked college football team-. And when Charlie Baggett, were gone in the third quarter. Bill the Irish went into the lockerroom to improve and you have to State's shifty quarterback, hurled a 40-yard completion to wide receiver 
with a halftime lead. It looked these in " Dane Fortney on MSU's next possession, the Spartans found themselves within sight of an upset-down just four points with plenty of time left on the clock, they had a first and ten on Notre Dame's 36-yard line. 
But it was then that Mike Townsend assumed the role of devil's ad­vocate. Two plays after Baggett's big completion to Fortney, Townsend exposed Stolz, the MSU coach, as a false prophet. 
He stepped in front of flanker Damond Mays on the ND 16, stole Baggett's sideline pass, and then reeled off a 47-yard return to insure Notre Dame's third victory of the season. 
"We were in man-to-man coverage," said Townsend, as he explained Notre Dame's defensive preparedness. "When Mays went in motion, he became my man. And when the ball was released, I knew either I would intercept it or Reggie (Barnett) would. It was my longest return at Notre Dame, and for a while I had visions of going all the way. But all of a sudden my legs lost those visions." 
Townsend's theft erased other visions, too. It erased State's visions of a monumental upset, and left the Spartans with a 1-3 record. "I wish I could have thrQwn that pass," fumed the Spartan head coach. "The ball should have been thrown out of bounds. But Notre Dame is a damn good team. I don't think anyone can pass well against them. They had us covered almost all the time." 
But despite the victory, and despite the post-game praise from the MSU coach, the earlier prophecy lingered: "The best people don't always win football games. The best prepared people win them." 
Saturday's lesson in preparedness was not a painful one for the Irish fans-after all, as Parseghian emphasized, Notre Dame did win the game-but it's a lesson that other teams in other weeks will be trying to pound home with considerably more force. Next week it'll be Rice. The week after it'll be Army, and the week after that it'll be Southern Cal. 
Last year, Carl DePasqua 's Pitt Panthers pl~yed the role of prophet-by giving the then-undefeated Irish a severe scare during the first two and one-half periods of their game. But it took Missouri, one week later, to drive the prophesy home. 



And the Tigers, who'd been beaten 62-o by Nebraska one week earlier, 
•· • and defensive back Mike Townsend turns in the game's biggest play. 
drove it home with a 30-26 upset. 








