-----------------------~--~ -·------­
On The Inside 
Erotic Film Festival cancelled ... page 5 Soviet Jews might get an 
airlift ... page 10 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
lie!. VIII, No. 23 Friday, October 5, 1973 

by R. Thomas Thues Staff Reporter 
In reaction to the Homecoming ticket controversy, Student Union com­missioners issued a petition Thursday during a preliminary meeting of the Student Government Board of Com­missioners describing a formal resignation of all Student Union staff in the event of Student Union Director Jim Rybarczyk's dismissal. 
The petition state that "if he <Rybarc­zyk) is removed from office, it would precipitate the resignation of the ttal Student Union staff." 
Speaking for the Student Union ad­ministrative staff, Ken Muth, Student Union Associate Director said, "All ad­ministrators of the Student Union will resign in the event of "Ralph Rybarczyk's removal." 
After presenting the petition, Ken Natale, Student Union Academic Com­missioner, added that "a natural result of Student Union personnel resignation would be a cancellation of non-contract events." 
The controversy flared up as a result of the 54 homecoming tickets set aside by Student Union. The 54 out of 500 available tickets were purchased by Student Union commissioners and personnel. 
In a subsequent statement to the Board of Commissioners Rybarczyk said, "My purpose in purchasing the tickets was to 
Etienne 
reward my staff for their extreme ef­ficiency in orgamzing the event." 
After the prliminary meeting the nine 
members of the Board of Commissioners 
met in a half-hour closed session to discuss 


Commissioners issue petition 
the ticket situation. No decision was made. 
The Board recessed until Friday at 4:30 pm. Student Body President Dennis Etienne had no comment on the discussion of the meeting, but asserted that a decision would be made at Friday's meeting. 
When asked for Student Union's reason for the petition Natale and Kip Anderson, CAC Commissioner, cited the petition as a gesture of confidence in Rybarczyk's decision. · 
"We know that no wrong has been done. This is just our way of stopping Student Government's action," said Natale. 
Anderson added that, "(Rybarczyk's) actions were merely following precedent. It's excepted procedure to purchase a block of tickets for Student Union Per­sonnel." 
Rybarczyk's reaction was, "I was deeply touched by the actions of my com­missioners and I would do it again, given the same circumstances." 
Rybarczyk claimed that Student Government has "blown up the issue." He further charged, "The Board of Com­missioners is not necessarily impartial, because they're very involved in the issue." 
He hoped that "they <the Com­missioners) were prepared to assume the responsibility and consequences of the issue to the students." 
"I have accepted the responsibility of my decision. I hope Student Government can do the same," Rybarczyk concluded. 
When asked for the Board's reaction to the petition. Etienne had no comment. He said that they "wanted the evening to consider their decision." 


Sassone lectures on population growth 
by Jackie Simmons Staff Reporter 

The lecture on population by Robert Sassone last night resembled a heated debate between an often critical audience and Sassone. The lecture turned discussion, explored the various melodramatic statements that are used to convince people of the need to limit population growth. 
While Sassone's background in organic chemsitry and physics at the University of Michigan, as well as his degree in law from the Loyola University in Lost Anglees, gave him a very convincing store of knowledge to draw from, it was obvious that not all of the audience was convinced. 
From the start the topics included not only the major question of whether the world is big enough to continue to provide for an increasing population, but also con­tproblems of food shortages, the availability of natural resources, and the ability of technology to keep a pace of our "exploding" population. His supporting data was drawn from various sources including the National Geographic, United State Department of Agriculture, and the UN EAO Report of 1971. 
In answer to the fear of many populationcontrol groups. Sassone cited the fact that over 50 per cent of the world has zero people per square kilometer, Furthermore, only 3 percent of the total land surface is occupied by farms, cities, buildings, or other direct evidence of man's existence. 
Admitting that most land in the U.S. is developed Sassone pointed out that "... the U.S. is not representative of the world." 
The objection was raised that it was not space but food that was the problem. In answering this Sassone, reminded the audience that it was not actually a lack of food but just a matter of unequal distribution. In fact many people in the world are now eating 70 per cent more protein that they ever did before .. It is due to man's inhumaity to man that other parts of the world starve while some destroy their surplus food. 
But quoting yields of countries such as "Pak-Bang", he attempted to prove that the trend in food production is for greater yeilds and proposed that we could easily triple our present yields. 
In concluding his defense or our ability to meet the rise inpopulation with a corresponding rise in food production Sassone 'stated "The population explosion is the biggest rip-off in history. It is used as a a cop-out to prevent people from using the presently existing cures." 
Another major concern of some zero population growth advocates is the amount of oxygen needed t sustain life for so many, especially with the rate at which we are polluting our air. 
It was suggested that cutting down trees to make fore farmland destroys .one of our basic oxygen produceers. This fact was quickly put down by Sassone's readily available figures once a gam. In the last 50 years there has been no change intheper cent of oxygen in the atmosphere. 
An interesting comment from a listener was tha t if Sassone's interpretation of the facts and figures are so convincing why are s01many people so unconvinced. 
Sassone then admitted, "My interpretation of the figures is subjective." However there could be no doubt that he was totally convinced that his sub­jectivity was based on. evidence. 
Throughout the lecture, references were constantly made to Dr. Paul Ehrlich's book, The Population Bomb. Obviously Ehrlich's views were completely 

vr 
published biweekly 

volume two, number two 
october sixth, nineteen seventy-three 
• • . tomorrow morning 
incompatible to Sassone's and a debate between the two would have been interesting. In Ehrlich's absence however, several listeners raised the arguments in favor of controlling population. 
One such argument is the belief that it is impossible for technology and industry to keep the same pace as our population which is increasing at the rate of 2 per cent per year. 
Contradicting this completely, Sassone not only quoted figures which showed that those countries which show the least development are those with the least population growth, but he also appealed to our experiences. 
He pointed out that man's technology advances most in the cities and held that an increase in the number of people is actually an impetus to progress. 
Finally the "pessimists", in Sassone's view, ask why we shouldn't attack the problem of population growth now--even if it isn't a problem yet. In response, Sassone said, "Worrying about population today is about as dumb as rushing to the airport to catch a plan to Reno because you think there's going to be an ice age in South Bend." 
With an even more extreme view Robert Sassone said we should actually be co~cerned about our declining birth rate. In the last 8 years the world's birth rate has dropped 10 per cent. In the U.S. the birth rate has dipped from 23.3 per thousand in 1961 to 15.8 in 1972. The declining birth rate causes an increase in the number of non-working members of our society and puts a heavier load on the Social Security system. 
In summarizing this last argument, Sassone said "You are seeing the balding and graying and the wrinkling of the face of America. We are becoming a more aged country." · 
Those who attended the lecture but had to leave before its conclusion missed the most-illuminating part of his argument. By tying the facts together with a little more reality, Sassone overcame his earlier weakness of "unfounded optimism due to the total disregard of human nature as well as sociological factors such as national politics," (in the words of one of the critics in the audience.) If Sassone's whole lecture was merely an optimistic approach to the problem of population growth it was at least a very convincing optimism. 

the observer Friday, October 5, 1973 
NEW YORK-secretary of State Henry Kissinger met with the foreign ministers of Israel, Saudi Arabia and Turkey Thursday in a an campus taday
fridaybid to give a new thrust to U.S. efforts to bring peace to the Middle 5 p.m.--mass and dinner, bulla shedEast. 
7 p.m.--pep rally, bob thomas, gary potempa, coach 
PARIS--Viet Cong delegates accused South Vietnam Thursday of kelly, speaking, stepan center plotting to resume the war with the support of the United States and 7:30 p.m.--film debate, "should there be abortion on stormed out of a meeting with Saigon officials on the future of South demand," audio-visual aud., cce
warld Vietnam. They charged U.S. warships and planes were active off B: 30 p.m.--concert, the new riders of the purple sage North Vietnam. plus roger mcguinn, ace 9 p.m.--lectureand slides, "art in special education," little theatre, smc
VIENNA--The Austrian government is attempting to set up an airlift 9:30 p.m.--smc coffeehouse, lower-level cafeteriafrom Moscow for Soviet Jews emigrating to Israel to eliminate the
briefs 10, 12 p.m.--movie, the endless summer, "america" in
need for the transit camp that Chancellor Bruno Kriesky has promised flanner
he will close an official sourse said Thrusday. saturday 11 a.m.--rugby, nd vs. michigan, stepan fields 
WASHINGTON--Arguing before the highest military appeals co­11 a.m.--multi-media show, "notre dame in review," urt, Lt. William L. Calley's lawyer said Thursday that the young of­alumni assoc., library aud. ficer should be freed because he was only following orders when he 1:30 p.m.--football, nd vs. michigan state, stadium murdered South Vietnamese civilians at MyLai. The court agreed to 7:30 and 10 p.m.--film, april fools, engineering aud. hear Calley's appeal but it is not expected to issue a decision for some sunday 
time. 2:30. p.m.--eucharisti.c holy hour: ace , 
Hesburgh :raps 
by Michael Dewey student, regardless of race, Staff Reporter religion, creed or national origin. 
"The President has practically We've got to be perfectly clean on kicked the Civil Rights Com­this, othrwise we have no right to mission in the head," said be engaged in the broader issues.'' Hesburgh. "He hasn't appointed In response to the facts on anybody to succeed me even discrimination in off-campus though I was canned on November housing and unfair rent 17th of last year. There has been no · regulations, Hesburgh said, "I was chairman appointed since then. As involved in similar activities a result, the Commission is (prevention of discriminatory headless." practices) after the war. In fact, 
Father Theodore Hesburgh, the landlords were making so president of the University of much money off the students that Notre Dame and former had of the Civil Rights Commission appeared 
Vote Monday

·on WSND's Contact, Thursday evening. On the program, which was broadcast from 10 pm to 11 pm for Regina VP Father Hesburgh spoke on a number of issues. by Pattie Cooney
Lately, Fr. Hesburgh has been 
Staff Reporter

extremely busy with campus ci~il rights and the establishing of a On Monday' October 5, there will Civil Rights Institute. He hopes be a run-off election for vice­that the body of concerned president of Regina South. Voting members will be able to fulfill the will take place between 10a.m. and functions of the Civil Rights 6 p.m., in the lobby of Regina. Commission in a private context. The results of Thursday's One of the possible aims of the election are as follows: Deb Foran Institute is the overall education of 30, Dorthea Wieland 27, Trisha people as to where the Commission Quan 18, Jane Bustin 1, Buckwheat "is at today." Jones 1 and Karen Sills 1, with As a possible project for the thirteen abstentions. future, Fr. Hesburgh expressed The new campaign began at 9 the notion that a book on Civil p.m.\ast night and will continue Rights in the 60's may be for-until midnight Sunday. thcoming. An examination of te Election Commissioner Patti 
decline ~n int~r3st in ,the issues of Kampsen explained the reason for human nghts m the 70s would be a the run-off. "A candidate must major topic. . . . . receive a simple majority of all When th(' quesbo!' of Imparb~hty votes cast. This can only happen if in campus housmg regulations everyone will take this election arose, Hesburgh stated, "All seriously and get out and vote." housing should be available to any ~~~~·~~~~~~==-"~ 
tr:lllmll····-lll·lllli...lll.llll.ll!'fl 
Notre Dame 
ll!'l~3J2J a:ti 
!:! MISHAWAKA AVINUI AT 30TH ! 
NOW SHOWING


WATCH 
THE LGK;-RUN 
"FIGHTING IRISH" 
40 
Cara-ts 

Uv : Geat /Jimnnmll .... 711ntrllr!· '/rttV'IriJ 
VO!J tfR~.t1,~lr:.~& 
Ullmann : Kelly

Uwm : Biliit Convenient Credit Terms 
South Bend, Indiana 
Albert : Barnes 
Certified Gemologists 
. From Qli.IIDA ltliRS ~~~ 
..· \

American Gem SOciety..'· ·· · · phone 288-8488 t;,. .'· .­-. .~~ til·nes & directions · 

Start your v.eekend at ...

Nixon 
Bulla Shed-

some of the local houses of prostitution closed down and 
( Corner of Bulla and Juniper
turned into apartmen~. because they could make more money that 
across from Grace Tower) 

way. I guess that you never really eliminate all these problems, and you've got to keep after them all th time," said Hesburgh. 
Among other topics discussed on 
,···..
: 
.

the premiere of Contact were 
..-.· ~

additional housing on the eastern 
border of the campus, universty­sanctioned job opportunities, and renovation of LaFortune Student Center. 
In regard to hall parties, Hesburgh expressed the desire for a-location in each hall where social gatherings could be held. At present, he estimated that less than half of the halls have such a 
MASS AND DINNER 

facility. fn lieu of the construction of many party rooms, he ad­vocated the improvement of 
Friday. 5:00 p.m!
(continued on page B) 
IH! 51R()H BllfWfi!Y ?.OMFA~.Y. DfTitOIT, Ml(.HIGAN 48226 





Get your heads together. · 
From one beer lover to another. 

.. ~................................. ,..11,. ...... .
• ~ • , ' ~ I • t I • • •" ..-,. • .. ·~ 'r ..... C. ~ ... •-.... -.· ~ .,. .,.-..,.. '-"' " -. ·• ''" • • 
' ~ -. --... ·.. 

_ .. p .................... _Q. ................ ~ ......... ~ ..... .. 

Friday, October 5, 1973 the observer 
How can a student get his sheets replaced if he forgets to pick them up on the regular day? If you miss the regular sheet day, you can pickup your clean sheets lmd pillow cases at the Laundry Facility. It is located behind the Freshman Year Office and its hours are from 7:30a.m. to 3:55p.m. 
Who can I register a complaint with about food quality and who d9es one talk to about food preparation ~ugges tions? For most complaints, it's best to jot them down on the blue cards which are available in the Dining Halls by the entrances. However, if the question is urgent or extensive in nature, it would be wise to get in touch with The. Food Service Advisory Committee. This organization is a student operation geared to look into food problems. Its members are Mary Claire Molidor, Martha Lampkin, Mary Ellen McAndrews, Laura Dodge, Paul Clemens, Peter Clemens. and Geoffrey Thompson. 
Who's in charge of The New York Club for this year? Bill Kelly is heading up The New York Club, otherwise known a~ The Met Club, and can be reached at 234-5193. 

Marriage of 
DAILY ROSARY


couple ,reaches 
During October 

new 'peak' 
By United Press International 
7pm at the Grotto 

AREQUIPA, Peru <UPI> -A .pair of mountain climbers will be married Sunday on the peak 

Everyone

of Mt. Misti, an extinct volcano rising 20,000 feet above this · city, 450 miles · southeast of 

Welcome I

Lima. Moises Guzman Chacon, 48, 
and Nicolasa Lerma Ruelas, 26, 
Pastel Portraits ­

said they would scale the 
mountain the day before, 
A Unique Gift 

accompanied by the priest and 
from color photos $15

witnesses. A round-robin wedding invita­tion circulated to relatives and 
Frames and Framing 
Service

frierrds said the wedding would 
reasonably priced Misti's peak." 
be held at 9 a.m. Oct. 7, "on 
Erica's 
The couple met on a previous 
on the ba Icony of 

expedition to the same moun­tain. 
Thieves Market 
Honeymoon plans were not 

2309 E. Edison immediately made public. 
Sat. and Sun. 10-6 

RETREAT WEEKENDS 

OCT. 12·14 Morton Kelsey Maury Amen, CSC 
An attempt to spend time going inward through dreams -­and out ward to inter­action and concern for others ---two parts of an experience of finding an inner life. 
Nov. 9-11 Rolland Stair CSC 
Nov. 30 · Dec. 2 Tom Stella CSC 
For reservations, please stop at the campus ministry office, 103 Library. ss fee with a $3 non­refundable deposit is asked. 
Now You Know 

BEFORE OR AFTER THE GAME 
Man's sense of smell is keener 
COME JOIN US FOR SOME

when he is hungry. 
In 1971, 3,473 citizens of 
GREAT FOOD-GREAT DRINK Cleveland ate horseradish at least every other Friday. 
The animal with the heaviest 


LOUIE'S BAR

brain in the world is the sperm 
whale. 744 North Notre Dame The longest seaweed in the world Open Sat. from 11 a.m.---? grows up to 1,000 feet and is found off the coast of South America. Alumni & Friends Welcome! 


THE CHAIN MAKES IT ON CAMPUS 
KNIT TOPS GO EASY WITH ACRILAN® COMFORT 

REGULARLY $10 
It's acadf'mic! The new class­room mood is more casual in Acrilan® acrylic knits. W-1-D-E waistband for today's look, too! S-M-l. At The Chain Shop! 
CUFFED SLACKS GO COLORFULLY PLAID
750 
REGULARLY $10 
On campus or off ... Chain slacks have class! The classy look of taday's plaids with wide bottoms, cuffs, the works ! washable polyester-cotton.
I Sizes 28-36. Buy ....,)  now, save!  
SCOTTSDALE MALL . open daily ·10 am to,!! pm SUnday 12 noon to 5 pm pllone' 291-79Hi  •'if>"'.>-.  


the observer Friday, October 5, 1973 
Theology profs compare Yale, Notre Dame 
by Jane Thornton 
Staff Reporter 

What does Yale have that Notre Dame doesn't? Frs. John Dunne and Aidan Kavanagh of the theology department, recently returned from visiting professorships at Yale, have some interesting observations. 
Both professors cited the strong faculty and graduate student community life. Dunne said the bimonthly luncheons featuring discussions with authors such as Robert Lifton, (Death in Life), Henry Nouwen (With Open Hands) and Cullen Williams, dean of the divinity school, were very fruitful. 
Kavanagh, who lived on the Yale campus with the married students, felt the atmosphere was congenial. 
"It's a lot easier place to live in than Notre Dame," admitted Kavanagh. "Notre Dame has anonymity since grad students have no place to gather." 
"It was a good experience being in a place where I'm not known, starting from scratch, meeting different people and testing ideas against their background," con­tended Dunne. 
Kavanagh concurred and quipped, "It was good meeting different studens and different backgrounds, es:pecially students who haven't heard all your stories. That's a great relief." 
Dunne taught Yale undergrads 

the essence of Catholicism, 
religion an autobiography, and 
historic responses to death and 
religion and mysticism. He also 
completed his latest work, Time & 
Myth. 
Like Notre Dame students, the 

undergrads, Dunne said, were concerned with mysticism, dif­ferent responses to death, the structure of the life story, _existentialism, phases of human development and relations, and 
spiritual states. 
Christian initiation, covering early Christian conditions for conversion and baptism, and the Eucharist treating the early history of the Mass, were the courses Kavanagh taught divinity students. 

Kavanagh soon discovered that most students had never covered church history or liturgy. Their religion was "mostly in the brain plan, that is the rational type stemming from Yankee puritanism which regards liturgical services or those ser­vices dealing with the senses as not 
entering  into  the  religious  ex­ 
perience."  
Many  were  astounded  by  the  

richness of the liturgy, Kavanagh claimed, and that "the world did exist before 1600." 
He recalls one student's astonishment at Hippolytus' contention that pimps, prostitutes, college professorrs and politicians "need not apply" to Christianity since they wouldn't make it. The 
More specific grad code asked 
by Jack D'Aurora I Staff Reporter 

Due to the ambiguity of graduate student regulations, graduate student union president Bill Lavage called for more specific guidelines. 
"Last December's Lewis Hall incident has created a general feeling among graduate students that the incident was poorly handled by the administration with respect to student rights and guarantee of due process," stated Lavage. 
"It could be said, however, that the incident was handled as well as could be expected under the cir­cumstances," referring to the very ambiguous rules and sanctions applying to graduate students. 
"This is precisely why a judicial and appeals mechanism, code of behavior and reasonable sanctions are so crucial to graduate students. Repetition of the Lewis Hall incident must be avoided," continued Lavage. 
Seek volunteers 
lor Head Start 
An orientation meeting will be held October 9, at 7 p.m. in the LaFortune Center for all in­terested in participating in the Head Start Program. 
Volunteers are needed in this program which prepares disad­vantaged children to enter school on a more equal footing with more fortunate children. 
Those interested in devoting one morning per week should attend the meeting. 
For more information, call Michael Fitzsimmons at 8549 or Fr. David Schlaver at 7308. 
Advanced Studies Vice President Robert Gordon, 
,presented the first written set of rules and the first judicial mechanism for graduate students in response to the Lewis Hall incident. But according to Lavage, Gordon's rules were vague, "allowing too many in­terpretations." Gordon asked the Advanced Student Affairs Com­mittee <ASAC) to make recom­mendations for establishment of a central judicial and appeals mechanism. 
In February, the ASAC sub­mitted its proposed jucidial mechanism, consisting of two hearing routes: a private hearing conducted by the Dean of Students or the Chairman of the ASAC, or a public hearing by a tripartite board consisting of student, ad­ministration and faculty members. Both provide means for appeal. 
At this time Fr. Robert Austgen, Chairman of the ASAC, asked the Graduate Student Union to recommend applicable sanctions. In March, the union presented to Fr. Austgen and Dr. Gordon not only a code of sanctions, but a code of behavior. 
On September 24, Dr. Gordon 

approved the committee's recommended judicial mechanism but left three issues unresolved: the code of behavior and sanctions to be enforced, the ratio of students, administration and faculty members on the tripartite board, and the means by which student members of the board will be appointed. 
"I hope the same spirit of cooperation from the previous administration will be maintained by all members of the ASAC in resolving these crucial issues applicable to graduate students," Lavage stated. 
Lavage has been notified that a 

code of conduct and sanctions have been determined by Dr. Gordon's office. 
JORDAN FORD SUGGESTS: 
Take a football week end for only s75! 


Jordan will rent you a Winnebago Trailer that sleeps eight people for any away football weekend for only $75 and 10 cents a mile. You pick up the trailer Friday noon and return on Monday. For more in­
formation, call: 
student's faith meant assent to Christian community for rational doctrines rather than a example, clothing the naked, and 
transformed lifestyle. feeding the hungry," Kavanagh Defining liturgy as "what the 
(continued on page 8)

Christian community does as a 
Flanner's 'America' ' reopens 
by AI Rutherford Staff Reporter 
Tonight marks the reopening of 'America' in the basement of Flanner. The Endless Summer will be shown at 10 p.m. and 12 p.m., with Beach Boy's music being played between showings. Ad­mission is free. 
Senior Mike Hess, coordinator of the activities, hopes to alternate the appearances of various folk and rock groups with movies. Next weekend, Windjammer, a jazz rock group is scheduled ~o play. 
"We have the best facilities on campus for this type of en­tertainment," Hess stated. "The floor is completely carpeted, the lighting 'is excellent, flnd the stage is situated perfectly for an equal distribution of sound," Hess continued. 
During the week, the basement serves as a recreation lounge for playing pool, pin-ball, and cards. This year, comic books are being sold, with a selection ranging from Spiderman to Thor. The hours during the week are 1to 5 p.m. and 8 p.m. to 12 p.m. on weekends.. 
-
Lavage 





GSU PARTY 
Saturday 8:30pm 
at Carroll Hall. 
All graduate student and law students invited. . 
$1.00 per person adult beverages served 
Ralph Richardson· Rachel Roberts· Arthur Lbwe 
Helen M1rren ·Dandy N1chols ·Mona Washbourne 
C~lebra1mg Warner Bros 50th Ann1versa1y 0 A Warne-r C-ommu"'cattons Company 



SHOWTIME 
2:20-5:25
NOW 
'-8:30 
• 
( 

Friday, October 5, 1973 the observer 
Erotic Film Festival cancelled 
by David Kaminski Staff Reporter 

The Erotic Film Festival, scheduled for October 9 and 10 in Washington Hall, has been can-· celled for this semester, according to Student Union Academic Commissioner. Ken Natale, and· ,Cultural Arts Commissioner, Kip Anderson. 
Natale and Anderson claim that an inability to secure faculty cooperation and a lack of time to prepare the festival were the reasons for cancellation. 1 
The Notre Dame festival was to consist of excerpts from the "First Annual New York Erotic Film FestivaL" 
The"'Student Union planned to 

Anderson show the films and then have a panel of faculty members discuss the films' moral and artistic value. 

The Office of Student Affairs was cooperating in the planning of the festival, providing members of the faculty to add an academic dimension to it. 
Letters were sent to all faculty members, asking if they would consider sitting on the panel for the festivaL Of those eleven only one agreed to sit on the paneL 
Natale and Anderson declined to 



Six acts 
name any of the faculty members 
contacted. 
Natale and Anderson are 
disappointed by the faculty 
members' response. 
· "It seemed that the faculty was 
passing judgement on the films 
without having seen them," Natale 
said. "Some of the respon~es we 
received were: 'I wouldn't touch 
this with a 10-foot pole,' 'The 
educational value would be 
minimal,' and 'You might as well 
open a smut shop behind the 
schedu1ed 
for Mid'Nest Blues II 
by Mark Derheimer Staff Reporter 

Midwest Blues II, a "Blues and Boogie Extravaganza" is slated for next Friday and Saturday, October 12 artd 13, at Stepan Center. 
The Cultural Arts Commission, organizer of Midwest Blues II, has lined up six acts for the event. 
On Friday, October 12, Joe Willie Wilkens and The King Biscuit Boys featuring Houston Stackhouse will open the festival. They will be followed by Roosevelt Sykes, a famous New Orleans piano player of the 20's and 30's. Performing the last set on Friday will be Hound Dog Taylor and the Houserockers. 
On Saturday, October 13, an Indianapolis Blues Jam with Shirley Griffith, Yank Rachel, and 
J.T. Adams will start the evening. They will be followed by a four­piece rock blues band, Son Seals Buies Band. Mighty Joe Young and Koko Taylor will close the festival. 
Tickets are $5.00 for both nights and $3.00 for a single evening. 
Doors open at 7:30 p.m. with 
performances beginning at 8:00 
p.m. 
Advance ticket sales for both 
nights only are available at the 
Student Union ticket office, 
Pandora's Books, and Boogie 
Records. 
Midwest Blues II is an outgrowth of Midwest Blues I held two years ago. According to Perry Aberli, festival chairman, "This year's event is smaller in scope, but the quality is just as good." Aberli emphasized that some good boogie bands are appearing. 
At the festival there will be no seating, and an area up front will be set off to encourage dancing. Blues records will be on sale during the festivaL 
Aberli stated that the "response for this (festival) determines whether there will be any blues at all at N.D. A good turnout would guarantee the future of Midwest Blues.'' 
Anyone interested in further details should contact Perry Aberli at 288-7590. 
Food advisory committee meets to discuss dining hall service 
by Pattie Cooney Staff Reporter 

The Food Advisory Committee met with Director of Food Services Edmund Price and Notre Dame dietician Mrs. Phyllis Roose last night. 
Mary Claire Molidor, Research and Development Commissioner, reported that Price discussed the purpose of the committee. It is his hope that the committee will vocalize the impressions of the students concerning all the aspects of the Jood service, not just the menus. 
Molidor also noted that Price emphasized the food service is here to serve the students and wants detailed suggestions in addition to general reactions. 
One of the major responsibilities of the committee is to serve as a link between students and the dining halls. There are three representatives from each quad·on the committee. The list of com­mittee members is as follows: 
"We. hope that students will contact committee members with any ideas abut the food service," said Molidor. "Besides complaints on the menu, we would 
like to get feedback on the atmosphere of the dining halls, for instance the scramble system in the South dining hall," continued Molidor. 
Another responsibility of the committee is to handle the co-ex meal program with St. Mary's. "This way the students have a channel to complain through about abuses in the system." explained Molidor. 
·······-···· 

Presently the hall presidents receive the tickets at the HPC meetings and distribute them in their halls. The distribution is up to the discretion of the hall presidents, barring complaints. "If there are complaints, guidelines might have to be set up," commented Molidor. 
At Notre Dame, two or three dorms will split 100 tickets each night, depending on the number of people involved. 
At SMC 100 tickets will be divided into 25 per dorm, each night. "The tickets will be available in the hall director's office. Each girl is allowed one ticket on a first come, first served basis," explained Judy Mardoian, SMC co-ordinator of co-ex dinners. 
There will also be a book at the desk each girl will sign when she receives a ticket. 
"There could be a problem in the future concerning ticket allotment, since there is an unequal number of girls in each hall, but we will have to wait and see what hap­pens," noted Mardoian. 
Co-ex dinners start Monday, October 8. 
IllIIRl1111111II111111111111111111111111111 IIIIIll II1111111111111111 IIIllm1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Mary Clare Molidor  226 Walsh  8082  
Martha Lampkin  230 Walsh  8086  
Mary Ellen McAndrews  417 BP  3725  
Laura Dodge  202 Badin  6912  
Paul Clemens  313 Keenan  3321  
Peter Clemens  313 Keenan  3321  
Geoffrey Thompson  114 Dillon  1589  

IIIII1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 II II 1111 IIII111111IllII1111111111111111111111111111 II ll.llllllllllllfll 
Tired of hot dogs? Come to the M.E.C.H.A. Mexican food stand inIfront of chem·engineering -~~;_·befor~·.the game. 
~---------------------------~~------------------~ 
bookstore.' 
I felt that the faculty was afraid to volunteer their time because they thought it might be wasted on the student body," Natale said. 
Natale and Anderson disagreed with the idea that they were catering to the purient interests on campus. 
"Hopefully, the festival wouldn't be in a context that would elicit a perverse response. I think we have a little more faith in the student body than that," Anderson said. 
The Student Union had planned 
strictly limit attendance to Notre 
Dame and St. Mary's students, 
faculty and administrators. They 
planned no publicity that would 
have gone beyond the campuses. 
Natale and Anderson admit that 
they got a late start in planning the 
festival and that they should have 
spent more. time in lining up 
.faculty support. 
The Student Union might try to 
bring the festival to campus at a later date. If they tty again, they . hope that serious, legitimate student support will help them to find cooperation among faculty 

rto_o-ff_e_r_th_e_fe_s_ti-va_l_f_or_r_ree_a_n_d_to~=n~le_m_b_e_rs_._______""' 



~~tLW{l(fr 

··~~ ~~·· 
wishes the IRISH best of luck against MSU 


RoGERS 
Optical 
IOGER ATWEll • O'WN9 
HOVIS, MON • TUES • ntUII. -Fll 9 AM 5:30PM WED -SAT 9 AM 12 NOON 
COMPtnl: $PBc:I"AClf SEaVICE AU EH 01.'$ P'IIESCRIPTION$ HONOIEt 
Cal/ 
289-7809 

CHUCK BECK PETE SNAKE 
RANDY SARTON LEANNE JACQUES DAVE GRAY JOHN PERLEP 


notre dame concerts · student union present 
NEW RIDERS OF THE PURPLE SAGE 
special guest: ROGER McGUINN 
(formerly of the Byrds) 

TONIGHT in the ACC 
GOOD SEATS ARE STILL AVAILABLE AT THE ACC TICKET OFFICE (Gate 10) 
$4.50, 

3.50, 
2~50 



l ' 
£ 
L 
( 6 the observer 
1'.. >/[ 
I, 
'1, 




THE OBSERVER 
?., 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
l, l  Art Ferranti Executive Editor  
Le"e Gentine Business Manager  

Jerry Lutkus Editor-in-Chief 
NEWS: 283-1715 EDITORIALS: 283-8661 BUSINESS: 283-7471 
Friday, October 5, 1973 

All on 
Student Union put it all on the line last night. In presenting the Board of Com­missioners with a petition saying that most of the union staff would resign if Director Jim Rybarcyzk was dismissed, they really pulled a gutsy move. And in the move they showed their support of a 
( man who has been under fire since his appointment as SU Director, last year. Despite what seemed to be over­
l 
~ 
whelming odds against him, Rybarcyzk came out of the Board of Commissioner's meeting in good shape. The Board 
1 
originally seemed dead set against him and dismissal seemed a likely possibility. However, the petition presented to the 
Board could very well have been the
1. 
weapon that turned the tide. 
Momentum was on the side of those who pushed for dismissal last night, but now that momentum has gone. It seems unlikely tha Rybacyzk will be removed from office. 
This is not to condone the action that Rybarcyzk took in handling the tickets. There seems to be little explanation for Student Union personnel getting a break to buy football tickets over the regular students, precedent notwithstanding. If 
the line 
they had a hand in the organization of the game, that would be another story. But Student Union organized the Southern Cal football game as much as the Sailing Club did. 
But the Board is presented with little alternative now. The question of principl has been turned into a question of practicality. Dismissal of Rybarcyzk will not return the 34 tickets and it will also result in the closing down of Student Union for a period of time. The com­missioners stated last night that they all resign then all the non-contract arrangementsthat they havemadewill be cancelled. This, in consequence, will freeze Student Union activities for a substantial period of time. 
The students have been wronged in the method in which thetickets were sold and the preferential trea tmnt given Union members. But they will be wrong even furthr if the Board of Com­missioners carries throm~h the dismissal of Rybarcyzk andthe campushas to settle for a prolonged shut down of Student Union and its student services. 
Jerry Lutkus 

( 
I 
I ~ Passing Up
f 
( 
Moose Krause was beaming with pride 
( 
after the opening football game against
r 
Northwestern two weeks ago. Moose was happy not only because of the victory,f but because the students, as he requested, stayed off the field during the
;, 
j 
halftime break. Saturday's another game and hopefully, the student's will again heed his request and not run on to the field during the band's perfor"mance 
nor prior to the team's entrance ba.ck on to the field. 
The class of the student body showed f ' through two weeks ago .and it reaped a grand result. The marching band has
( 
consented to resume their march around
r 
( the campus prior to the Friday night ( rally. And they are going through with ( the march without the protection of the 
{ 
Meat Squad, relying on the class and concern that the student's showed at. the 
f 
( ( ( doanesbury 
~ 
Dan Barrett Executive Editor 
John Kloos Advertising Manager 

Northwestern game. 
It shows that a moment of thought and a bit of cooperation pays off in the end. But it goes one step further now. It goes to the practice of "passing up." Two weeks ago, during the tribute to Elmer Layden, one section of students proceeded to pass up the pople from the lower rows. Not only did the action show disrespect, but it also placed the health of the students involved in jeapordy. 
Three years ago while a student was being passed up the crowd dropped him. He hit his head on the concrete step and swallowed his tongue. The student would have died without the fast action of an usher. So, it's dangerous. Use a touch of caution and a moment's thought before you pass someone up. Itcould start in fun and end up in tragedy. 
Jerry Lutkus 


raarry lrudeau 

,..-----------. ,..------------. r----------, 
/
t 


fOR6U IT. 
HEY' THIS ISNT
( 
HIIRR.Y-11'5

4 /JEER. I !T"5
( JfJGT 50HF K!OI 
Jt/51 A l(t(Jt

( ( 
" 

( 
~ 
( 
( 
f 
'( 

( ( 
It's an experience all of us have suffered through at one point or other in our lives. The experience of the wierd kid. The person who just doesn't fit. The one in the crowd whose behavior just doesn't meet the criteria set by "the guys." The poor soul who becomes the brunt of everyone's jokes, everyone's digs,everyone's venom. 
Until that person is gone. 
It's a feeling all of us have experinced at one point or other in our lives. We have all crucified. We have all dug. We have all spit our venom towards that helpless fool. 
Until that horrible, horrible realization sets in that his absense is a result of our well-placed poison. · 
Until that torturing moment that we are humbled by the fact that we went too, too far. 
Until that all-too-late, aging second when we are crushed bythe thought that our precious membership in the accepted portion of the crowd is based on weakness rather than on strength. 
That is the moment of frustration. That is the moment when we find that we are beings who all to often lack the element of control. We lack that invaluable element that allows us to become human and allows those around us to express their humanity. we lack that ability to rise above the jungle law of 
"kill or be killed" · We lack that sense of respect for the person of others. We lack the a.bility to become somehow Christian. And that personal deficiency has now caused others to be hurt. 
Others whom we have scathed without the faintest sense of their pain. Until its's too late. 
Yet our humanity should get a boost from the extreme sense of shame that darkens the majority of men's hearts upon an occasion when they have hurt. 
It points to a symptom of blindness, not ignorance, as the reason that we choose to belittle rather that respect. It points to that choice of acceptance by the crowd rather than respect of the person as a weakness, and not an incurable deficiency. 
And the men and women who finally cure that blindness are those who wh? choose to insert that sense of control into their lives. They opt for lookmg at the faces of those whom they touch, looking for the pain looking for that precious humantiy that should be cared for before it becomes hardened animalism. 
And none of us are exempt from the need to insert that control into our lives. Even those of us sheltered beneath the canvas of this Christian university. Our venom can be just as deadly, our animalism just as hard, our blindness just as opaque. 
We must learn to respect. Ourselves and others. There are people here at Notre Dame crying for respect. And through our blindness, we fail to see their pain etched across their faces. We fail to see the pain of that faceless female whose physiology has been passed from row to row, from hand to searching hand, from cheer to venomous cheer. What all those haves fail to realize is that they too have become faceless in the mind of one who no longer respects' one who is rapidlygrowing, and whom we have blinded. Those that she passes on her way upward through the maze of searching hands never see her pain, never have the opportunity to see the bruises that cover her body and her self-respect the next day. And if that seems melodramatic, talk to the girl whose visit to the ~tadium for the North'."estern game was highlighted by three such Journeys and the commitment to never again enter the stadium. That tragedy becomes deeper because of the community's decision to so-well divide up the individual doses of venom used upon that girl. Few, if any, members of that community ever got the chance to see the result of their work. · But the results are there. And they're etched across her face. But 
one has to look to see. 
And they are there throughout this university. That pain is in the faces of those guys who plan for weeks to throw a party and then are treated to visit by the drink-and-run party hoppers. 
The pain is !here in the face~ of those attempting to study or sleep when less carmg persons decide to create their own jungle in the 
courtyard between two halls. Th~t same pain is in the face of the person too shy to live up to what his fellow-section members feel is necessary to be well-rounded. 
And every one of those people are hurting. And every one of those people deserves better. It's implied in their title. They are people. We were all given the eyes to see, and the ears to hear and the 
ability to care. Those of use who remain blind, deaf, and unc~ring are that way only because we choose to be. If we think of those around us we really have no choice. Our venom is to strong. ' 
Let's start controlling that poison. We all have too much living to do. And too much respecting to do. 
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:~:::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;::;. 
Night Editor: Joe Abell Asst. Night Editor: AI Rutherford Layout: Celeste Ponteri, Bill Brink, Mike 

the observer Kufczycki, Maria Gallagher 
-..:...:....::;..-=..:::..:::.:::..:.....:.....::::..:__Day Editor: Terry Keeney Copy Editors: Greg Rowinski, Patti 
Cooney Pict_ure Screener: Jerome Phillips Typ1sts: Mary Romer, Connie Fourre, 
Tom Modglin, Mike Seidel, Bob Stein­metz Nitht Contreller: Rick Smith 


Friday, October 5, 1973 the observer 
Letters Ta A Lanely Eiad 
a mood of the season 
rev•rend rabert vriffil1 
"I must be concerned with ... an inner life at Notre Dame that no no committee, no administrator knows 
how to make rules for." 
Let me tell you why I am angry this tense that he (or she) can only talk to you in and in three years, they are going to be students who drift into the world o· morning. I am angry, and in a general stammers. You sit there, trying to guess at talking about getting a divorce, because homosexuality in the bars off campus, o mood of outrage at the world, because there the source of pressure or neglect that un­they have learned nothing of sacrifice as a who feel themselves tempted to go tha . is on this campus a calm, ordered surface to derlies the heartbreak the kid is trying to discipline of love. A boy told me recently, he route. One of the saddest letters I have eve life, where one event hustles after another in describe for you. You wonder to yourself: was thinking of becoming a priest. received came to me recently from . a hurried rush for a weekend of football, and do parents ever take their children in their "But I could never accept celibacy," he homosexual man, who is just past thirty. H there is the breath-taking beauty of fire on arms and say, "I don't care if you don't said. "I want the kind of priesthood that spends his life moving from one pick~u the maples as autumn gives its party to the make the dean's list, and I don't mind if you God intended mankind should have." scene to another, and seemingly, he ha foliage and the meadows. But under the don't want to inherit the family business. "What kind of priesthood is that?" I never learned to relate to other people in surface of October on the Quads where the All that is important is that you are my kid, asked. mature, social way. This man's stor discussions on the educative processes are and I love you very much." Or you think to "One where every form of sexual ex­depresses me, because it can so easily b taking place, there is a real world where the yourself: did that stupid girl at B.U. have to pression is permitted," he said, "with the paradigm of our own young people f 
whatever partners I happen to love, whether Notre Dame who need to grow into the:students live; and it is chaotic and confused, choose this very week, when the law boards 
and so private that one cannot even talk or the med boards are coming up, to tell this heterosexual or homosexual, provided it adult years with grace and dignity, sel about it except in a general way. lovesick, lonesome senior that she is now isn't selfish." confidence and love, if they are not t . "No Christian is ever permitted freedom become moral derelicts whose friendship n 
like that," I said. "Freedom like that is one really wants. 
indistinguishable from promiscuity. Even 
for a married clergy, love would impose the inner discords 
self-discipline of fidelity to one partner." 
He murmured vaguely how God brings So, then, if I am angry this morning, it bsouls to Himself by all the paths of love, because there are committees that discuswhich is a notion I wouldn't dream of the problems of drunkenness and violenc · denying. I just wanted to be sick to my and dishonour, but there are no committee;stomach because I needed to say bullshit to discuss the inner discords from which th and couldn't. Bullshit is not the word you other disorders spring. It is an anger that' · use to a sensitive, intelligent person who, in 
One goes to dinner with friends. The dating the checker champion at Yale, and directed against myself as much as anyor:
his thinking, has mixed up his sex drives
drinks are excellent, and the food is full of that the stuffed animals, given as forget-me­else, because I don't think any of us knov. :
with the imperative to love all men.
surprises as the shrimp sauce and the gravy nots since the junior year of high school, will how to deal adequately with the privat : 
I think there is nothing on this campus
unfold their secrets to the mouth, and the be returned by parcel post in the morning'? confusions underlying the surface of life ~-;.
that is. so much of a dilemma to the people 
dessert seems to have been made in the I guess there is no way a university ad­Notre Dame.
here as the mystery of their own sexuality. I
kitchens of God. ministration can protect students against On Sunday, I shall face another birthda:
think I have almost never talked to a student 
parents who seem merely indifferent to or and I shall be one year closer to that time c · 
who has come to me with problems without 
exploitative of their offspring, or from the retirement in a quiet village rectory, who
their being somewhere in the background
highball-to-eyeball cruelties perpetrated when some guy loses Darby O'Gill and I will live among roses o 1
the additional problem of sex, and of the
Tondelayo, or some gal breaks up with the stud fees of that cocker spaniel. Bt · 
need of loving and being loved.
Heathcliff. But if our community at Notre right now, by choice, I must be concernec Then, with your stomach whispering Dame is so Christian, how come there are so as so many others are concerned, with a thank-you's and your heart singing many people here who are so deeply con­a paradigm inner life of Notre Dame that no committee 
fused about genuine human problems that no administrator knows how to make rulE ·lovesongs to the chef, you return to your 
room, and there is a call from a kid who Christianity cares about, like love and for . Like anyone else who is faced wi needs to see you. Within minutes, (being human sexuality'? There are couples being And I hate to be the one to mention it problems that seem to have no answers, slightly high) you are in a highball-to­married on this campus, with tunes from again, but there is still with us the situation am left with a sense of outrage against U eyeball encounter with a student who is so Fiddler and readings from Kahlil Gibran; that few people speak of: namely, the world. 
the praho (prague) experience 
mark wenig 

(ed. note: Mark Wenig is a senior American I had my first look at an eastern European The building itself was about the size of Prague has an old Jewish cemetery, an 
studies major at Notre Dame who spent city. It was about 4 o'clock in the afternoon, Flanner Hall, built at the same time as the best preserved synagogue in al Europe 
three months travelling on his own in cloudy and grey, as our train pulled in to the Flanner, but it looked like a 1950's apart­The cemetery has people buried 12 deep i 
Europe during the summer. The following former big beer town. My coach was ment building, with no hot water. I won't it, with 112,000 people entombed in an are article was taken from notes he made stopped over a bridge affording me a clear describe the neighborhood, let me suffice to smaller than a football field. during his expedition.) look at one of the city's main streets. I say that it looked like it was stamped from 
recognized none of the car models, of what one and the same mold. It was the kind of an cobblestones and hoofbeats I was about to cross the Czech border by cars there were, and was surprised how area that looks its best ori dark, rainy daystrain at Schirnding, West Germany on July 
absolutely drab the storefronts, buildings, like the kind I had during the first half of my Saturday evening, we climbed to th. 26, with visa in hand, as I waited in the and people looked. A large red sign, saying stay. Dark, eerie, and strange were the palace and viewed the city in the rain. l! compartment for the guard. Opposite me 
something about "Sovietskym" as I recall, feelings I went to sleep with that first night side the palace courtyard, the cobblestom was a Czech woman returning from a visit with a hammer and sicle adorned a nearby in the east. shone in a glaze, and the spotlit 15th centur with her sister who lives in W. Germany. bridge. I began to experience a little ap­I broke out of my cultural shock the next fountain continued to shoot water up into th" The guard came by, opened the com­prehension at this point, and asked myself, day, however. I met a young Canadian drizzle that fell. I didn't have to imagine tt ~ 
partment doors, and asked for passports "Why didn't I stay in Western Europe?" 
student from Toronto, Tim Wlaters, the next hoofs of the emperor's horses clappir. ,and visas. The guard came by, opened the I arrived in the capital city of Prague morning at CEDOK, and we traveled across the courtyard, because I could a·· compartment doors, and asked for about 6p.m., and made my way to CEDOK, together during our time in Prague. Going tually hear them in the quiet of the ground passports and visas. When he was what I the Czechoslovak tourist agency, for ac­to the castle and palace, St. Vitus Cathedral, as we were the only ones there on that Ju'" 
had, he declared, "Ahh, Amerricann," and 
comodations. Securing lodging at the the old churches, and indeed just walking evening. a smile came over his face. I didn't know University of Prague, I climbedaboardtram the streets of this ancient capital of the Holy Sunday, my last day in Prague, was how to feel just then, but the woman across 21 (8 cents) for the 20 minute ride to Pod Roman Empire was an experience beyond beautiful sunny day. In the afternoon I tO< from me smiled reassuringly, so as we Lipami and Jarov, my building. compare. The pre-communist sections of a rowboat out by myself in the river Vltav: crossed the border into the Czechoslovak The streets were all grey, the people were the city are perfectly preserved, leaving The charge was 25 cents for 1 hour. As Socialist Republic, under the watch of guard dressed in fashions of 20 years ago, and I Prague with excellent examples of rowed under the Charles Bridge, one of U 
towers and through the barbed wire, I just was really struck by the sameness of Bohemian and Eastern European ~ oldest and most famous in Europe, I cou hoped for the best. everything I saw. It all seemed like a chitecture. feel the history of this great city, and tl The train stopped at the town ofChebfor completely different planet, and I think I Our evening meals were usually taken at tremendous moving beauty of it. But th. routine inspection. Repair men entered it was falling into cultural shock at this point. Tim's hotel, the Hotel Solidarita <Solidarity night, the greatest thrill of my trip was and opened the roof attic looking for people come.
Hotel). The food there was good for Prague,and arms, I suspected. The first thing I purple roommates and the atmosphere was interesting (im­Waiting for the tram to the railroa could not adjust to was women wearing possible to get cold beer there though, we station at about 10:30 in the evening, Tit pants at the station. Not slacks, but the My accomodations at Jarov were decent, saw three Germans trying to get it one and I met a man of about 50 and his wif• trousers that men wear. To my amazement, but expensive, the first night. All rooms night, but after a few very exasperating Upon learning I was an American, the women worked the railroad yards wielding were doubles, and you had to find your own attempts, they had to give up). smiled. We spoke with them a little and sledge hammers and axes. There is com­roommate. I found one for the next two recited some words in Czech that the womh plete sexual equality in the east, I was soon nights, a student from Hong Kong who at­On Friday night we decided to attend a on the train to Prague had taught me. Tl to learn. Still, it takes getting used to, like tends Rutgers University. But when I first Mozart concert by one of the Prague man was so overcome with happiness th• seeing soldiers wearing red stars. I fund the checked in, I needed a roommate, so I asked Symphonies. Cold weather (temps in the he hugged me. I can honestly say that I ha\ Czech soldiers friendly, and later observed the girl at the desk if any other Americans 50's) forced the concert inside to the old never felt so good in my entire life. no Russian soldiers, as I was led to believe or English speaking people resided in the town hall. For a very minimal charge we I left Czechoslovakia feeling that tt that they are pulled from the capital for the building at present. She said there was one heard selections from Mozart, Beethoven, people of Eastern Europe think that we, 1 summer. American, but he was black. I snarled back, and Dvorak, performed to excellence in the the wast, especially in the U.S., hal 
"I don't care if he's red, green, or purple, if true eastern tradition. Leaving, we walked forgotten them. I did my best to assur 
grey plzen he wants a roommate, put me in." She then through the dark cobblestoned streets, people who were interested in America 
explained that he had just found a room-under gas lamps, and passed 1930 cars that we had not forgotten, but I do hop 
The Czech woman and I were, meanwhile, mate, so I was out of luck. I felt sure that she parked, still in use of course, all of which ·more Americans will go to Eastern Europ< attempting to communicate, and she was had stereotyped Americans as racists, contributed to the fact that if one did not The sights, culture, and people have t able to teach me a few words of Czech. As maybe from the government propaganda I know it was 1973, there was no way in the make it one of the most beautiful regions CJ the train left Cheb, it made its way to Plzen, ' don't know. ' world to tell. , the face of this globe. 
the observer Fridav. October s. 1973 

Hesburgh speaks out on Nixon 
(continued from page 2) presence on campus from Fr. 
Hesburgh. He stated, LaFortune. possibly the basement. "Everywhere I look, I see girls and 
The conversion of Lyons Hall to a this wasn't true last year."women's dorm next year drew an Lighting improvements around interesting comment on the female the Lyons-Morrissey area was 
Yale, N.D. compared 
(continued from page 4) 
specified Mass and baptism as the 
central liturgical form today with ~ocial action as an extension. 
The liturgian emphasized that although social action is good, it is not all that Christ requires of Christians. He elaborated, "Charity is hypocritical unless you realize you are poor, sick, and naked and that evil and your ac­ceptance of it are at the root of these ills." 
"In modern terms," he con­
tinued, "this means we are all 
capable of Watergate. We have 
met the enemy and he is us: 

That's why Hippolytus had 
stringent requirements. Christ 
Placement Bureau 
requires that you stop being who you are and becQme someone else." 
Since Vatican II students at Yale and other members of Protestant churches are "beginning to realize the need for a richer life of the senses in common worship." The reasoning was that if the "im­movable" Roman Catholic Church updated liturgical shapes and forms, the avant-garde Protestants must follow suit. 
Kavanagh attributes his visiting fellowship partially to Vatican II ecumenism. "Ten or fifteen years ago, I couldn't have been there. Now our concerns are common, we have a great sense of community which has made our friendship much richer." 

t 
all those who attend_will be en­
Su~nmer jobs Sough 
couraged to dress m overalls, 
by Joseph LaFiare Staff Reporter 

Although the summer of '73 is barely over, the Placement Bureau is already looking forward to the summer of '74. 
Mr. Richard D. Willemin, Director of Placement, said that the Bureau is now taking ap­plications for summer work next year. The Placement Bureau sends the students' resumes to their local chapter of the Notre Dame Alumni Association. This is the second year of summer job placement and he termed the first summer as "successful." 
"The more applications which can be readied for the mailing to the N.D. clubs will result in an early search for jobs which might beat other college students to them before the semester break. This will also give the alumni clubs a chance to contact the student before he-she leaves the campus at the end of this semester," Mr. Willemin said. 
He added that all the ap­plications will be forwarded to the various clubs on November 1. All of the clubs know about the program and have appointed a representative to help the student secure a job. 
Mr. Willemin mentioned that some students obtain jobs which they keep even after they graduate. "Our philosophy is to help bring the alumni and students closer together, and this is one way of doing it," said Willemin. 
Jim Clarke and Sean McLidden, student directors of summer placement, reiterated what Willemin said. Clarke felt that it was an especially good idea for the student to get his application in early, since last year over 600 students applied. 
Clarke added, "The main goal is to get the employer to contact the student. The Bureau itself will not supply the jobs, but will arrange for the opportunities." 
The Placement Bureau is located in Room 222 of the Ad­ministration Building and students may pick up an application form there. 

discussed, but no commitments were made. 
As the informal interview drew to a close, Fr. Hesburgh offered this observation on the taxation system in America today, "All the typical wage earners today have taxes deducted from their salaries, no matter how small. Whereas, the President of the United States can get bywithoutpaying any taxes at all as a result of buying those bit houses with his friends' money, and that just isn't fair." 
'Farm look' is emphasized for· Homecoming 
by David Lee Staff Reporter 

The Student Union Social Commission will sponsor its Homecoming Dance Friday night October 26 from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. 
According to Homecoming Dance Chairwoman Gina Voll, Stepan Center, thesiteof the dance, will be transformed into a barn. With emphasis on the "farm look." 
boots, cowboy outfits, or any attire appropriate to the rustic atmosphere. 
There will be both rock and country-western music available. And refreshments including • sandwiches, potato salads, and soda will be served. 
A unique, added attraction will be a Jive horse and a carriage for those nostalgic, country folks who would like to pose and have their pictures taken while "back on the 
farm."  
Tickets are now  on sale at  the  
Student Union  Ticket Office  for  
$6.00 per couple.  

YOUR STORE 
in style 1n pr1ce in terms 


MIDWEST BLUES II OCTOBER 12 & 13 
SATURDAY NIGHT:FRIDAY NIGHT: AN INDIANAPOLIS BLUES JAM:HOUSTON STACKHOUSE SHIRLEY GRIFFITH,ROOSEVELT SYKES YANK RACHEL, J.J J.T. ADAMS,HOUND DOG TAYLER & SON SEALS BLUES BANDTHE HOUSEROCKERS MIGHTY JOE YOUNG & 

KOKO TAYLOR 

STEPAN CENTER, NOTRE DAME 
Doors open at 7:30pm Performances begin at 8:00pm Tickets $5.00 both nights, $3.00 single Advance Sales: Student Union Ticket Office, Pandora's, and Boogie 
Records. Only $5.00 tickets available in advance· passes and single tickets available at the door. • 
P.S. THERE IS NO SEATING· BRING A BLANKET ANDA FRIEND. 

TOMORROW NIGHT: AT 10:30pm 
SNEAK PREVIEW! 

WI NNE R: 'Best Picture of 1973" Atlanta Film Festival 
More Sp•ce...from the 
maksrs ~tFri•z Yhe Cat•• 


VESTED 
$125 buys you a pure wool worsted suit with vest ... with flare leg styling...with impeccable tailoring...with your good looks in mind. In choice of handsome solid colors. Stop by. 

i 
' 
I 
~------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Ervin promises action against information 
leaks to new-s media 

WASHINGTON <UPI> -Sen. Sam J. Ervin, D-N.C., promised Thursday to take action against any member of the Senate Watergate Committee staff leaking information to news reporters, but rejected a request from Sen. James L. Buckley, CR-N.Y., that the staff be interrogated under oath. 
Buckley said he wants to find the source of leaks about testimony given in secret committee meetings. He told Ervin he was considering legislation in tended to protect the rights of accused persons "in the face of the onslaught against individual rights that leaks have engendered," with­out violating constitutional gua­rantees of free speech. 
Such testimony under oath, Ervin replied, "would result in great injury to the morale of the staff and would not induce any ·guilty staff member, if there be such, to confess his wrongdoing. 
"In my experience a wrong­doer of the kind suggested never confesses to his · mis­deeds," Ervin said. 
He also said the committee is not empowered to administer such oaths and has no power if false testimony is given while under such an oath. 
Ervin said "appropriate ac­tion" would be taken against any staff member who was found leaking secret informa­tion to the media. 
In a prepared Senate speech, Buckley noted U. S. District Judge Walter E. Hoffman's order Wednesday giving Vice President Spiro T. Agnew's lawyers subpoena powers to question possible sources of news leaks about the Agnew 
/ investigation. "The deluge of leaks in the 
current investigation of charges made against the vice president is a national disgrace," Buck­ley said. "The judge has dramatically pointed out the gravity of the conflict between' the rights of the press and the imperatives of justice." 
Adding that the problem confronts legislative bodies as well as criminal investigations, Buckley read the Senate a letter he had written to Ervin. 
"I am today urging that all committee staff members im­mediately be put under oath to discover if anyone on the staff, in direct opposition to the spirit and the letter of the commit­
tee's  rules  of  procedure,  is  
leaking  information  to  the  
media," Buckley  wrote.  

. He said anyone refusing to swear that he has not violated the rules should be discharged. 

SMC STUDENTS ARE YOU INTERESTED IN 
90 degree temperature during Jan., Feb., March & April? Desert Sun and Mountain Snow? 
Hispanic­
Southwest History?


An integrated social intellectual-spiritual experience? IF YOU ARE Sign up now for a second semester in TUCSON Applications must be in by NOV 15 (only twenty students will be accepted) 
OBTAIN INFORMATION FROM 
Sister Alma, C.S.C. Coordinator of Ott Campus Program~. 
Rm. 115 LeMans SMC 

Friday, October 5, 1973 the observer 
HINDU POSTERS.. Authentic Hindu Religious posters. Colorful, subtle, garish, magical -as interesting as India. They depict major events in the lives of the Hindu dieties. Variety of subjects to choose. Poly-bagged for protection. 7" x 10", 
10" X 14", 14" X 20", 

19 1 49 
20" X 28"........... e • e 
---~--------..1'-~~-, 
.(,~ 

~ 

L~ 
D 
~ 
1!1 
I I 
D 
CALM THE FRANTIC P-\CE. E'capt-the rush of <l,,,,e, -· kmdle intense in ,m exotic hurner. Sniif "'r<mity' Pier 1 ha~ ,.h,lvP~ .~~ 
~~;::;..1nd m:m:· 'Lents of0~ 9_6~ 9 
German Beer German Food German Music 
L----l~O~O~C~e~n-te~r_C_o_m~p_l____~
ex 
New experiences await 
you in the ancient cellars 
beneath the Pier. 
We buill our pier in the old brewery on Center Street. Now we've turned its ancient cellars into shops. What beHer place? Its walls have weathered the creaks and groans and joys of life since 1858. It's an intimate and earthy place to browse and shop. The old cellars, beneath the 
Pier. 

DECORATIVE GLASS ITEMS? 
UNIQUE & DISTINCTIVE tN PIER l's UNaRGROUND! 
OUR GLASS BLOWERS _ 
CAN MAKE IT! . ~,.. (BLOWN ITEMS OR ~y \~ I'· DECORATIVE WEAV El · 
SOMETHING SPECIAL IN STONEWARE? PIER 1 's UNDERGROUND POTTER 
. --· SPECIALIZES IN : CUSTOM WORK! 


100 Center Complex Mishawaka 
In the Old Kamm's Brewery 
LONDON. PARIS. ANTWERP. ROnERDAM. SYDNEY. ME~aOtJRNE. TORQNTO. 'MONTRE.l.L. VANCOlNER. NEW VORK. 80STQ~.l,11A~I.IJ;illJb£lli'H(A. C'fAICACiO..DETROIT. PitTSBURGH. HOUSTON. DALLAS. PHOENIX. SAN FRANCISCO SEATTLE. LOS AfiiGELES 
• 



the observer Friday, October 5, 1973
10 

_Airlift possible for Soviet Jews 
sharp rebuke by the Palestinian
By llnitt>d Prt>ss International guerrilla organization that 
guerrilla leadership. The guer­
An official source in Vienna claimed credit for forcing said Thursday the Austrian Kriesky's decision warned Mos­
rilla news agency WAF A denounced "unknown parties"
government is attempting to set cow to halt all emigration of up an airlift from Moscow for Soviet Jews to Israel or face 
who tried to spoil relations Soviet Jews emigrating to attacks on its embassies and between the Palestinians and 
their long time friends andIsrael to eliminate the need for other interests in the Middle allies in the Soviet Union.
the transit camp that Chancel­East. 
The Vienna source said the
lor Bruno Kriesky has promised The warning brought a the Arabs he will close. disavowal of the "Eagles of the 
new plan would required Soviet approval for Jewish emigrants.\t the same time, the Arab Palestine Revolution" and a 
to travel by plane rather than train as at present. If approved, the airlift would 
eliminate the need for the Soviet Jews to interrupt their voyage in Vienna except to change planes. 
Wholesale costs fall: 
consumer hopes rise 
Interior Minister Otto Roesch said in a newspaper interview earlier that the Austrian Sept. levels steepest in 25 years government "is now working on a program which would make it 
WASHINGTON (UPI) Council of Economic Advisers unnecessary to maintain a Wholesale food prices took their said there had been further transit center in Austria for the sharpest plunge in more than a wholesale price drops since the Jews." quarter century in September, September statistics were ga­Kreisky agreed last Saturday falling 6 per cent -and raising thered. And he hailed the to close the Schoenau castle hopes for lower prices at retail September drop as "a welcome transit camp to save the lives checkout counters, the govern­sign that the worst of the big of three Soviet Jews and an 
I 
' ment said Thursday. 1973 surge of inflation is behind Austrian held hostage by two But the lower food prices and us." Arabs who said they were the 1.8 per cent decline in "While wholesale food prices members of the "Eagles of the overall wholesale prices didn't may not continue to decline," Palestine Revolution." come close to offsetting the big Stein said, "a resumption of Kriesky has since rejected increases of. the previous rapid increases should not be appeals by Israeli Prime month: a 27-year high of 5.8 per expected." Minister Golda Meir and cent overall, an all-time high Stein said the lower wholesale President Nixon to reconsider 
23.1 per cent for farm products prices might not be fully his decision. His suggestion that an•j a record high 13.4 per cent reflected at the retail level, but the camp be taken over by the for processed foods. should "contribute to a leveling United Nations was turned 
However, Chairman Herbert out of retail food prices in the down by U.N. Secretary General Stein of President Nixon's future." Kurt Waldheim. 
Cite many reasons 
ACLU calls for Nixon oust 
by approving domestic spying, also held news conferencesBY BARBARA SLAVIN usurping Congress' war making Thursday.
NEW YORK (UPI)-In simul­
powers and perverting "the Neier said that "although alltaneous news conferences 
operations of various federal administrations have violated
around the country, the Ameri­agencies" have been mailed to civil liberties at one time orcan Civil Liberties Union called
\ 
every member of the House, another, this administration hasupon the House of Representa­
l ) the ACLU said. been more consistant, blatant
tives Thursda• to initiate Aryeh Neier, ACLU executive and serious in its violationsimpeachment · proceedings director, told a news conference than any that come to mind."
against President Nixon. 

in New York that the organiza-
Copies of a resolution charg­The two and a half page
tion's board of directors
ing the President with repeat­
resolution said that "on July 25,
l 
"overwhelmingly" approvededly violating his oath of office the resolution at a meeting 1970, he (Nixon) personallySt. Mary's film· Sunday. Neier said the ACLU's approved the Houston Plan' for 
l 
Washington and state offices would lobby with congressmen domestic political surveillance
on TV tonight 
to press the resolution. and espionage by such methods "I'm Gonna' Sing," a 
A spokesman for the 205,000­
as burglary, wire tapping andmember organization said at
{ documentary film of the St. Mary's eaves-dropping, mail coversleast five other chapters, thoseconcert choir's summer tour of in Los Angeles, San Francisco, (interception), and militaryEurope, will be aired on local Chicago, Denver and Boston, spying on civilians."
television tonight. 

The group, under the direction of music department chairman James McCray, logged over 21,000 
MAIN CHURCH 
miles in the three-week trip. The 
movie was filmed in Belgium, 
SUNDAY MASSES
Austria, Germany, and Italy. 
The film was produced by Smart Productions, Detroit, Michigan, executive producer, Saint Mary's 
5:15p.m. Sat. Fr. Robert Griffin, C.S.C 
9:30a.m. Sun. Fr. James Schilts, C.S.C.
I College.
l 
"I'm Gonna' Sing" will be 
10:45 a.m. Sun. Fr. James Burtchaell, C.S.C. 
telecast at the following times: 
12:15 p.m. Sun. Fr. William Toohey, C.S.C. 
Friday, October 5, WNDU-TV, Channel 16, 7:30p.m. 
Sunday, October 28, WSBT-TV, Channel 22, 4:00p.m. -----, Friday, November 9, WSJV-TV, Channel 28, 10:30 a.m. W~t <ltolonial 
i YE~TERDAY'S HIT 
I Jfancakr ~nuBP 
SONGS I 
on 8 track or cassette 

I ,,Enjoy a snack or dinner"
~ 

) 
only S4.85 

.) 
35 Varieties of Pancakes
valuable catalog 50 cents 
I Chicken -Steak -Sandwiches
(refundable with order) 
Jobel Music Corp. 
1071 N. E. 151 Terrace 

U,S. 31 (Oixieway.), North Your Host 
North Miami Beach, Florida 
, (Across,from Holiday Inn) ... _·,·-"-Bob> Edwards '50
,.1. 
... •,• ' .... ' ' I,., 

r• ... A .a • .,. • "" • • •" ~ • .. to,_.·",~,,',. .........~·-•.,. ,.·,....,.._·..,. .. ,. .. ;;,_.co.A&a, ;_. • ,., , ••'••·•~••"·"~'
} ...... , 
~~ 
The Beirut newspaper An Nahar published what it said was a statement by the "Eagles." It read: 
"A warning to the Soviet Union: We, the Eagles of the Palestine Revolution, issue this first and last warning to the Soviet Union, our friend, that its embassies and interests in the Middle East will be targets for strikes by our revolutionar­ies unless it stops the emigra­tion operation to Israel." 
Until now, Soviet Jews arriving in Austria at a rate of up to 150 a day have spent one or two nights in the Schoenau transit center. The Jewish Agency, a semiofficial group handling Israeli immigrants, runs the center and organizes the Soviet Jews into groups for flights to Tel Aviv. 
Kriesky has said he would have ordered the transit camp closed sooner or later as "an absolute security risk" con­stantly exposed to possible Arab attack. 
The Schoenau camp remained open Thursday, receiving sever­al score Soviet Jews who arrived by train. About 100 who arrived Wednesday flew on to Israel. 

School house Too 
In the Brewery 
100 Center Complex Mishawaka, Ind. Phone -259-8181 

The midwest's most complete needlepoint shop 

SPECIAL: 10 percent discount upon presentation of student I D HOURS: MONDAY-SATURDAY, 10am-9pm SUNDAY, 12 m-6 m 
reservations
:r: 
284-4176 
~ 
w NO 
Student -Faculty ND~MC Staff

·SMC 
$1.50
THEATRE 
SEASON 1973-74 
Richard III 
Shakespeare's bold history 
Oct.9,10, 11, 12,13at8:30pm 
O'Laughlin Auditorium (St. Mary's) 
WHERE WOULD YOU LIKE TO BE ON DEC. 1st? 

SIGN 
UP 
FOR THE 
SENIOR CLASS TRIP 

open to all nd students and faculty 3 DAYS & 3 NIGHTS IN 
MIAMI BEACH!!! 

( 
optional trip to d1sneyworld 

only $160 
$25 deposit due at

NO vs MIAMI 
travel bureau 

NO LATER THAN FRI· OCT. 12 
Questions? 

Caii·Charlie or Bob. at 23.3-9555 
r1 ,· r r~ "" r ,.._. ,.. r, _. •• • .a"' • _._..,. • • • a"' • 
L 

J 
--~--.-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~--~---------------------------------­
Watergate 
Saboteur talks of anti-Democratic 
. 

operations in '72 
By MIKE FEINSILBER 
WASHINGTON <UPI) -A paid political saboteur Thurs­day told the Senate Watergate committee he hired a girl for $20 to run naked in front of Sen. Edmund S. Muskie's campaign offices shouting "I love Mus­kie" in an effort to damage the Democratic candidate feared 
most  by Republicans.  
An  irate  Sen.  Sam  J. Ervin,  
D-N.  C.,  told  the  witness,  

Martin Douglas Kelly, 24, of Miami, he saw nothing funny in such pranks because they "virtually destroyed" Muskie as a candidate for the Democratic presidential nomi­nation in 1972. 
Kelly said he and Donald H. Segretti, the Republican agent who offered him $700 a month to sow disarray among Demo­crats, made plans to antagonize delegates to the Democratic National Convention in a manner intended to help the fortunes of George S. McGo­tern, perceived as the weakest possible rival to President Nixon. 
"McGovern was the desirable nominee of the convention as far as we were concerned," Kelly said. 
The plans to use "dirty tricks" to influence convention delegates against McGovern's rivm were l!bandoned, howe­ver, because of the Watergate break-in "and the heat of the investigations that followed," he said. 
In the March primary in Florida, Kelly said, he hired "a girl that was hungry for money" to go to the conserva­tive college town of Gainesville, Fla., disrobe and run in the street in front of Muskie's hotel proclaiming her love for Muskie. 
"Unfortunately she did it," the penitent Kelly said. 
H£> said Segretti had told him Muskie "has a short fuse" and should be antagonized into a display of fury. 
Ervin, his voice rising to a shout, accused Kelly of trying to antagonize even conserva­tives "by hiring a naked woman." He asked if Kelly stood by his contention that the tricks were not aimed at influencing voters. 
"I'm not denying some voters might have been influenced," Kelly replied, but the purpose really was to "upset the candidates." 
Ervin cited printed advertise­ments and radio commercials in charging that Kelly was trying to turn whites and blacks, Cubans and Jews, against Muskie. 
Among other things, Kelly said, he released a bird and two white mice at a Muskie press conference. Signs at­tached to the tails of the mice read: "Muskie's a ratfink." 
Kelly, a round-faced former president of Florida College Republicans, wearing a brown knit suit and short boots, was the first witness to testify before a committee session which was not televised live ­and the change in atmosphere 
was noticeable.  
The  hearing  started  24  
minutes  late  with  three  of  the  
senators  absent.  

. "':_ ·, •· • ., ; , ~I •. • ' ~~ t ~ •

.' ... " ...· 
Friday, October S, 1973 the observer 1 1 
NOW AVAILABLE AT THE NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
THE GLORY 
OF 

NOTRE DAME 
It is a volume no Notre Dame fan can be without. It is a volume no football fan can do without. It is the story of Notre Dame football, covered by the magazine and the writers that were there as each chapter was unfolding. And it is the story of those kids who 

came  up  out  of  the  
railroad  towns  and  
cities  and  farms,  and  

who saw those dreams fulfilled--not only for personal glory, but for The Glory of Notre Dame. 
. .. $6.95 
also available 

PARSEGHIAN AND NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL 
by Ara Parseghian and Tom Pagna ...$9.95 
2nd Floor 


ONE FOR THE GIPPER by George Gipp, Knute Rockne, and Notre Dame 

CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 

I am going to be disowned unless I get 3-4 GA tix for my father tor any home game but Air Force. Will pay $$. Call 4077.  Need 2-4 GA tix to MSU + USC. Will pay. Call Scott 1598or 214 Grace. Need 1 MSU GA ticket. Will pay obnoxious price. Call 234­2542  Need 2-5 GA MSU fix. Call Jim 234-5822. Need 2 MSU fix. Call 283-3162. Partime help needed in car wash near campus. Hours  Martin D-35 guitar with hard shell case. Call Bill 283-1161. New hide away bed green and black velvet-$130. New irregular gold plaid couch-$50. Call 291-1117. ·  LOST AND FOUND---­Lost new shirt + bell in front of bookstore before Northwestern gmae. Reward. Call tom 233­9555.  
Desperately need GA tix for the Army and the Navy gmes. Call 1364.  Need 2 USC GA tix or I'll kill myself. Will pay $40, call  weekdays 7:30 am -3pm. $1.80 hr. Call 291-2673.  NOTICES  Lost Senior ring 2 days ago O'Shag. Reward. Call 233-1089.  
Need GA tix to USC. 1598.  Call Phil  ( 1role 8148. Need 4 GA MSU ::>esperate._ 4401.  tix.  FOR SALE 2 concert tix New Riders cheap. 3rd row. Call 6931  Morrissey Loan Fund can loan up to $150 at 1 percent interest, 1 day waiting period. Basement of La Fortune. 11:15­ Lost Knapsack inN. Ding Hall. Reward . Call Beth 232-6244. FOR RENT  
Need 2-6 GA tix for USC.  Will  12:15 Mon-Fri.  
pay reasonably exorbitant prices. Also need 2 GA tix MSU. 232-2973. Desperately need 2 USC tix. Call 287-1178 after 10 pm. 1want to rent or buy Electric or Acoustic piano. 232-9747. Need 2 GA Navy tix. Please  Desperately need 4 USC tix . Will pay. Call Pat 3273. Need 1or 2 GA MSU tix. Steve 1545. Need many Navy tix. Will pay well Rick 7S02. Need 5 tix tor MSU. Will pay well. Call John 1774.  MEERSCHAUM PIPES! Exceptional values, per­sonalized service. Catalog. PNMP Co. Box 444 GAAITHERSBURG, Md. 20760. Yamaha guitar F6-300(retail $300) Rosewood inlaid pearl. adjustable bridge, hard shell case Excellent condition.  Gsu Social Committee is rooking for members. Be a BPOC; fringe benefits, reirement plan. etc. Call Paul B. at 6615 or 272-7405. Students interested in N D +SMC Gay student alliance call 7768, Wed or Fri 7-9 pm.  Room for rent. 8 minutes from NO. Call 232-4545. RIDES WANTED Need __ ~ ride to Indianapolis, Oct. 12, St. Louis Oct. 19. Call 5465. Ride needed to North Dakota. Can leave 10 17. Call 1240.  
help me.  Bill 3251.  Nee.-: 1 MSU ticket.  Call 4773.  David 8427.  MEN! WOMEN! SHIPS t No  JOBS ON experience  PERSONALS  
Need 3 GA tix to Navy game. Call Mike 1004. Want Domes for personal collection. Need 1911; 1912; 1914; 1915; 1916; 1917; 1918; 1924; 1925; 1926; to complete set. Call Tom Kirshner-acct  -, -~e( 2-5 GA MSU tix. Call Jim 23-i-5822. Nc· GA MSU tix. 1593. Tix MSU. Call 233­1638.  Electrophobic AM-FM stereo. 8 track tape, and Garrard changer. 8703. Diamonds, engagement rings + wedding rings, at prices you can afford. Ken 1859.  requird. Excellent pay. World wide travel. Perfect summer job or carreer. Sent $3 for info to SEAFAX, Dept. L-16 PO Box 2049, Port Angeles, Wash. 98362. LOGAN VOLUNTEERS: Sat.  Get it up IRISH! 711 Grace. K.O.­Happy Anniversary. Let's try talking. THE CRUMBY KID. TOTHEROMANPONTIFF: I  
dept 3296 or 234-3790. Need 2 USC 'i.. call Chuck 234­Wanted: Waitresses and 25-". Waiters, no experience nec­cessary, part-time, preferably Need desperately 2 MSU tix. 21 yrs. of age or older. If in­VIIi II oay >.-". LIIZ · 4777 terested call South Bend Country Club 287-3373. Ask· for Need i IIJ\SU tix. ·Call Pat 6923. Chris May. Ne.:d 2 GA tix Navy game. Call Need dog watcher + exerciser 289-4336. on weekends for friendly Irish setter. Call 287-1178 after 10 I have 1 GA ticket for MSU that pm. I want to trade for a student ticket. I alsohave another GA • Stl!reo· mechanic;?,~ N~ .haJj:) ti<;ket to sell, Call, 4113: ·., wiih t-urr\tallle repair.· ' ·-Will ·.. "' ~ ~ \ I \ ; ' ' · • 'I' · ·· • pay! I Call 6766. ).• ._._. ......... '!:._ ............ .,. ... ,,., .... ~ ............................. , ...  national lampoons new en­cyclopedia of humor now at pandoras also penthouse, playboy,oui, ms. psychology today and more thousands of new +used books at un­beatable deep cut discount prices 602 n st louis <at so bend avJ noon -9 daily except 9-7:30 sun. '64 Chevy Malibu . 6 cyln. Needs muffler. $75. 234-5980. Swiss mov't perpetual calendar mercury watches. 17 j-ets-only $15. Call Frank 3119.  recreation this week 9-11:30 am. Meet at Logan gym. Anyone interested in Science Fiction call Jake at 1816. Campus Lebanese -American club is now forming. In­terested people call Yousef 3127. PITT CLUB: RESER· VATIONA MUST BE MADE NOW FOR SEMESTER BREAK. RESERVATIONS ALSO TAKEN ·,,FOR THANKSGIVING BUS. CALL --~ B B .  capitulate. The papal forces are victorious. God have mercy on us. THE AN­TICHRIST. Happy birthday to Dave and Pete: How loaded are we going to get? The flame. John Kloos is a hell of a guy. He says so himself! Hey Stretch!! Boom Boom LaRue ·just. wants to say happy 23rd. \. •• -~-been_t~ lonp._ --~~.  


the observer Friday, October 5, 1973
12 

Well-prepared Spartans visit ND 
··~ --~-----·-~
-


by Vic Dorr Sports Editor 
There's a world of difference between Hugh "Duffy" Daugherty, Michigan State's recently-retired football sage, and Denny Stolz, the man who replaced him at the helm of the Spartans' gridiron program. 
Daugherty, an Irishman, is upper middle-aged and faintly paunchy. His eyes twinkle on occasion, and he will, if pressed, conceal a brilliant football mind behind an equally brilliant Gaelic wit. <Once, when asked whom he was happiest to see returning for a new season, he replied, "Me.") 
But Duffy didn't return for the 1973 season. He retired last winter, and now spends his Saturday af­ternoons as the third member of the Chris Schenkel-Bud Wilkinson 
broadcast team on the NCAA Football Game of the Week. 
Stolz, MSU's current head man, is younger, taller, and slimmer. He may--having served for two years as Daughtery's defensive coordinator--have picked up much of his predecessor's knowledge of the game, but he picked up none of Duffy's humor. Denny Stolz'
' j approach to Michigan State's football· fortunes is frank, op­timistic. and always serious. 
:! 
"I think we are going to have a sound football team," said Stolz,
several months after he was named to the head coaching
position at MSU. "I have no qualms about it. I feel that Michigan State will be a contender in the Big Ten this year and every year. 
"We learned a lot of football in spring practice. We showed great improvement. and I believe we'll continue the same progress this fall.'' 
But Autumn hasn't been as kind • 
Frank Pomarlco:====================:=:::::=:::::::=:=:::::::=:::::=:=:=:=:=:::::=:::=:=:=:::::=:=:=:::=~ 
Captain's Corner 
:::::::=:======================:==========================:========:===================:Filling the holes 
Notre Dame 20, Purdue 7. As Ara said, "There are eleven holes to fill for the National Championship. We have two filled with nine to go." 
One hole that will be tough to fill will be this Saturday against Michigan State. Traditionally, the Irish-Spartan conflicts have been rough, defensive, low-scoring games. There always seems to be a lot of hard hitting mixed with very emotional football. This year should be no ex­ception, so Irish fans had better screw on their hats and not be over­
~ confident--for the Spartans from East Lansing have very strong and very 
. ! 
! capable personnel. 
\I However, we all should be aware of the great Irish power developing in the second "Era of Ara." What I mean by the "second" Era is that Ara has moved away from the old saying: three yards and a cloud of dust. Now he is singing the tune we'll run, and you catch us if you can. This week I would like to touch upon the new-type offensive back Ara has developed and the type of offense he now uses. To look at the players, I feel you have to look at the coaches. Tom Pagna is the offensive backfield coach, and he is a man of very deep emotion and pride with great intensity and drive for perfection. And he tries to instill these qualities into his backs--backs like Eric Penick and Art Best, Wayne Bullock and Tom Clements, Ronny Goodman and AI Samuels, and Gary Diminick, Cliff Brown, and Russ Kornman. In describing the starting three, one would have to say that it's the most ~xciting and powerful backfield Ara has had since he's been at Notre Dame. .. Eric Penick has the Irish single-season rushing record with 740 yards. This season Eric is one year older with one more year of experience and maturity under his belt. He has also learned to follow his blockers better and to catch the football. He is complimented by Art Best. One could say that Art Best is Mr. Everything. He can run, block, catch, and tackle, and, and they like to \ ;ay in the football world, can really do it all. It seems that Art has a very appropriate last name--Best-because that's just what he is: the Best. In the middle we have Wayne Bullock. Wayne is kind of a jolly-type guy .vithall the tools to be one of the greatest fullbacks in ND history. I feel Wayne's greatest asset is his ability to think and make quick decisions on the field. He reads the blocking so well that a play could be designed to go off-tackle left and wind up off right tackle. To top off this great backfield we have Tom Clements, or Spanky, as 1e's sometimes called. Tom is a very intelligent football player with tremendous quickness. He has a great competitive attitude which is found in few athletes across the country. This now completes the Irish backfield picture. However, there are countless reserves who, if called upon, can perform nearly as well as the players listed above. With the depth and quality of the '73 Irish backfield, the holes to this year's National Championship may be a lot easier to fill. 
to MSU as Stolz thought it would be. The Spartans were upset by Northwestern in their season­opener, and needed a last minute touchdown to defeat Syracuse, 14­8, the following week. 
Last week, the Spartans gave up a pair of early touchdowns to UCLA and never recovered fromthe first-period deficit, as Mark Harmon and his Bruin teammates went on to post a 34-21 decision. 
So tomorrow, in Notre Dame Stadium, a 1-2 Michigan State team will face an Irish squad that is unbeaten, has allowed but one touchdown in eight periods of play, and is ranked eighth nationally in one poll and ninth in another. Even the Michigan State sports in­formation department is conceeding that the Spartans may well have their hands full. 
"This does not rate as one of the blue chip classics in the series," admitted Fred Stabley, State's sports publicity director. "State's record is an unimpressive 1-2, versus the Irish's 2-0, and the general feeling is that MSU is overmatched. Some observers feel Notre Dame may be the top team in the land." 
Some observers may feel that way, but the Michigan State head coach is not one of them. Despite the on-paper chasm between the two clubs, Stolz is taking his usual 
approach to the Irish-Spartan
tussle--intense and serious. . 
"The best people," warned Stolz, "don't always win football games. The best prepared people win football games. Our team," he continues, ·~can beat anyone on our schedule. We know how well we're going to have to play, though, to beat Notre Dame. Nothing more need be said." 
The Spartans have a roster which might, before the season 

-


It's always nicer when you win. Irish cheerleaders had more to smile about than their Purdue counterparts last weekend, and hopefully the story will be the same tomorrow. 
ends, justify Stolz's confidence in it. The MSU offense, which hasn't scored against the Irish since 1969, is a new-look offense this season. Quarterback Charlie Baggett, a junior college transfer from North Carolina, heads State's !­formation attack, ane his mobility and quickness out of the backfield give the Spartans a running threat they've missed in recent years. 
Nor is Bagget, who has gained 97 yards rushing in MSU's three games, the only ground-gaining threat. Tailbacks Tyrone Wilson (6-1 207) and Mike Holt <6-o, 175) giv~ State additional ball-carrying strength, and fullbacks Clarence Bullock (5-10, 203) and Julius Askew (6-2, 225) round out the backfield corps. 
Baggott's primary receivers are split end Mike Hurd (6-2, 179) and flankers Dane Fortney (6-1, 178) and Damond Mays (6-1, 187). Fortney and Mays, between them, have snagged eight receptions for 160 yards so far this season. 
Defensively, the Spartans have never been lacking. The Irish have scored only three touchdowns against MSU's "D" during the past two years, and one of these came in the dying seconds of last year's game at East Lansing, a 16-0 Notre Dame victory. 
"Michigan State's defense was tough for us to crack last year," said ND coach Ara Parseghian, "and with a good nucleus back from a year ago we cari expect a real dog fight this week." 
That "good nucleus" is built around senior co-captain John Shinsky, a 6-4, 230 pound tackle, Shinsky and middle guard Ron Kumiega are the pivotmen on State's defensive line, but they're just the beginning of an abundance of senior talent. Linebacker Ray Nester (6-2, 238), cornerback Bill Simpson (6-1, 183), safety Paul Hayner (6-0, 187), and cornerback Mark Niesen (6-o, 185) all saw plenty of action last year, and all return this year for their final campaigns at MSU. 
"Michigan State has been im­proving steadily every week," said Parseghian. "They have the ingredients to be a good football team, and they've shown flashes of offensive brilliance at times. We have," he emphasized, "been very much impressed by this football team." 
Kickoff for tomorrow's Irish­Spartan clash, the 38th meeting between the two teams, is set for 
1:30 p.m. 
Vic Dorr:=:=::::=====::::::=:=:::::::=:=:=:=:::::=:::::=:=:=:=================:::::=:=:=======:=======:===:=====:========================= 
The Irish Eye 

-:::::·:-:::::::·:·:·:·:·:~=:::::::::====:=:=======::::=:=:=:=:=:==:==================:=:=:=:=:=: Football picks 
in a word, it was "upsets," or at least "near upsets," which caused all the turmoil in college football circles last weekend: Wisconsin nearly beat mighty Nebraska, Navy came very close to Michigan, and Oklahoma, well, the Sooners came as close as they could come to up­setting the defending national champion USC Trojans. 
Tomorrow may well see more of the same, but South Bend, hopefully, won't be the site of any such gridiron excitement. The Irish tangle with MSU's Spartans in one of the week's traditonal battles, but that game, despite its importance, isn't the only one of significance. There are others like: 
Penn State at Air Force: Joe Paterno's Nittany Lions face a defensive test at thehandsof the Academy's Falcons, but don't look for Penn State's "D" to receive any pink slips in Monday's mail. Corgan: Penn State; Fineran: Penn State. 
Georgia at Alabama: The Bear can beat the Bulldogs anytime. Corgan: Alabama; Fineran: Alabama. 
Arkansas at TCU: Arkansas hasn't had the best possible season to date, but things should brighten up considerably tomorrow afternoon. Even away from home, the Razorbacks can handle the Horned Frogs. Corgan: TCU; Fineran: Arkansas. 
Mississippi at Auburn: A down-home rivalry which ain't quite what it used to be. Both teams are now a step or two removed from the national limelight, but Auburn has a step or two on the Rebels, and that plus a home-field advantage, will be enought to win. Corgan: Auburn; Fineran: Auburn. 
Duke at Purdue: Last week, Duke lost to Virginia's Cavaliers, 7-3. That's not the kind of performance to take into a game against Purdue. Paticularly, it's not the kind of performance to take into Ross-Ade Stadium. Corgan: Purdue; Fineran: Purdue. 
Florida at LSU: Itwas a close one last year, and it'll be a close one this year, But it'll becloseinLSU'sfavor. Corgan: LSU; Fineran: LSU. Indiana at West Virginia: The Mountaineers are tough in Morgantown. Too tough for daring Lee Corso and his harried Hoosiers. Corgan: W.Va.; Fineran: W.Va. 
Syracuse at Maryland: Ben Schwartzwalder is travelling a rocky road in his final season at Syracuse. In past years his Orangmen might have looked on Mayland as a soft touch. Tomorrow, they'll look on the Terps as the favored team. Corgan: Maryland; Fineran: Maryland. 
Miami at Oklahoma: Once against Texas was incredible. Twice is too much to hope for. Corgan: Oklahoma;. Fineran: Miami. 
North Carolina at North Carolina State: UNC fans speak of their particular corner of the Tarheel State as "Blue Heaven," and that's just what those fans will be after tomorrow's game with State-blue. Corgan: 
N.C. State. Finerar:: N.C. State. Washington State at Ohio State: A breeze for the Bucks, even without Champ Henson. Corgan: OSU; Fineran: OSU. Michigan at Oregon: The ducks will be most fortunate if they come as closeasNavydidtoanupsetoftheWolves. Corgan: UM; Fineran: UM. USC at Oregon State: Souther Cal's next though game may well come on the 27th of October. Corgan: USC; Fineran: USC. 
Michigan State at Notre Dame: The Irish had best beware in tomorrow's renewal of this classic series. ND has the material to come out on top, and will, but the Spartans will come in well-prepared, and, as MSU coach Denny Stolz says: "the best prepared people win football games." Corgan: ND; Fineran: ND. 
Upset of the week: Iowa State over Colorado: This one's at Ames, and the last time a Big Eight powerhouse played at Ames...well, just ask any Nebraska fan. Corgan: Colorado; Fineran Colorado. 
Last week: 12-15; season 36-45, .800 pet.; Corgan 11-15; Fineran: 10.15. 










