On The Inside 
Pandora's finds new home ... see page 6 
N D loses research in· s1itu1es ... see page 7 



serving the notre dame community
Vol. VII No. 78 Monday, February 12, 1973 

SLC convenes today, Rice addresses anti-abortion group 
housing shortage,security on agenda 
Life Amendmentpromoted 
by Janet Longfellow Staff Reporter 
pregnancy. since the decision jected a word of caution. "Don't

by Bob Quakenbush 
allows for protection of the politicalize the issue. It's not

Plans for today's 4:15 meeting of 
Staff Reporter mother's health even after conservative or liberal. It's athe SLC in Holy Cross Hall include ,·iability. He then related how rna tter of life. not politics."
a report on the on-campus housing Protection of human life from health could be broadly defined as shortage. plus the assignment of the moment of conception was both including mental as well as gift of God undertake

~:ommittees to the subject and the purpose of a physical well-being.· 
Again emphasizing the im­discussions on campus security 

meeting of "pro-life" students 
portance of the amendment, Riceand the future of the SLC itself. 

r'ridav afternoon. 
coming home stated. "We just can't lose thisThe Report of the Hall Life 

More than thirty students and 
fight. Either life is a gift of God orCommittee will attempt to create a 

facultv members listened to a 
He noted, "97 percent of the it is a gift of the state."
reasonable method for handling 

presentation by Professor Charles 
abortions in California in one yearthe problem of forcing students off­

K Rice of the Notre Dame Law compromise rejected
were on grounds of mental health.
campus. The committee does not 

School. The meeting is the 
favor a grade point average beginning of student It's a dodge." Earlier. the professor h~d
a coalition 
method. since academic progress Urging his audience to adopt the rejected compromise amend­
formed to promote a Federal 
is unrelated to any aspect of hall Human Life Amendment, Rice ments. Discussing other proposals 
Constitutional amendment to
life. The report prefers "a system protect human life regardless of said "we can pass it---because which called for such things as
abortion is coming home. There is 

which distributes the risk more Giuffrida: Should the SLC continue age. final decision by a triumvirate of Pvenlv. and we believe, more fairly no more travelling from Indiana to· 
to exist or should its functions be doctors. mandatory procedures, or 
upon· the students. A lottery, or Fun City or elsewhere to have the dean Rice said we
carried out by another body? two sections conditions,
operation performed." 

random drawing. is the system we cannot accept them. "We just can't 
and the belief that they would most Citing predictions of 1.6 million
favor." cooperate with evil." He stands
benefit from off-campus living. The amendment, sponsored by abortions occurring the first year,
The report recognizes additional against abortion in any situation.
Dr. Robert Ackerman, head of Congressman Lawrence J. Hogan Hice expressed his belief that this
factors of the problem, such as has the Steering Committee, felt that (R.--Md.l. is named the "Human

arisen in the selection of women's was an under-estimation. "Un­pro-life 
an investigation into all factors of Life Amendment." Rice explained fortunately, it will probably be
dorms. To ease the irritation of 

campus security by the SLC would that it is written in two sections, dose to 3 million." After Rice's speech, the meeting displacement. the report states, 
be beneficial to solving the including a definition of life as was conducted by Mark Souder, a"We feel the next women's dorm problem if the committee mem­beginning at the moment of con­student in the Graduate School of
(for Fall 1974) should house the constitutional issue 
bers could work well with those on ception. and prohibition of Business. He will serve asmajority of present Farley and 
Rreen-Phillips juniors and. should the Hall Security Task Force. He euthanasia, or "mercy-_killing." chairman of the steering com­
Hice called the abortion question 

expressed hope that, "It won't be mittee of the student coalition,not house any incoming Freshmen the most important constitutional
just another group working on legal authority which is not yet titled. Henext semester. This plan will issue the United States has ever or
security problems." reminded the students that theirgradually phase out the hall as a will ever have, and stated the only 
male residence and allow for a SLC Chairman, Fred Giuffrida, "It was a stroke of genius to put cause was "pro-life, rather than
effective way to reverse the anti-abortion."

large number of Breen-Phillips is concerned with the future of the the two together," said Rice, Supreme Court decision now is to
referring .to the structure of the
and Farley students to continue SLC itself and has asked members pressure the state legislators into

amendment. "There is plenty of calendar of goalsliving within their sphere of hall individually to consider the pushing for a Constitutional
legal authority, as well as medical
friends." question and to have the Steering convention. Then, it would be

authority, which says conception is After brief discussion of the
The Hall Life Committee Report Committee make an assignment the beginning of life." essential to work for the passage of methods to be employed to educate 
also requests straight-forward for discussion. Giuffrida com­the amendment.

He later added that the amend­the public about the amendment,literature for those considering mented, "We have to answer the Rice expressed his hope that the 
ment's success or failure will also the group decided that the steering admission to the University. Since question whether the SLC should Catholic bishops, who are meeting
decide the question, "Should we committee would prepare athe University is basically exist or whether its functions could kill someone because of his age, today and tomorrow, see fit to calendar of goals to be reached for residential. the guarantee of on­be carried out by another body." 
endorse the Hogan amendment. He

illness, or incapacity'?" the next assembly.
campus beds should be Also on the SLC agenda are claimed the bishops are committed The next full meeting will be onmaximized. The report explains, summary reports of first semester in general to support an amend­the afternoon of February 16 (this"This means that the University output and projections for second mother's health ment. and added that he suspected Friday) in Room 2-D of LaFortune,should guarantee housing to fresh­semester projects from each of the they would endorse Hogan's. 

according to Therese Bush, a St. 
men. sophomores and juniors SLC committees. Finally, a 

Rice commenced his speech by l\1arv's freshman and member ofbefore it guarantees housing to committee will be selected to stating that the recent Supreme not politics the ·steering committee. She ex­seniors." This decision was made report on the February 5 hearing 
Court decision on abortion had tended an invitation to attend to alldue to the historical tendency of discussion concerning black 
effectively legitimatized abortion While encouraging students to students who are interested andseniors wanting to live off-campus students at Notre Dame. 
up until the final moments of work for the amendment, he in-willing to help. 
POW's coming home 
proportion to the withdrawal of remaining by James P. Sterba American troops from South Vietnam 
(c) 1973 New York ·Times during the 60-day period. Some 1,300 Americans listed as missing 
Clark Air Base, the Philippines, Mon­in action or believed to have been captured day. Feb. 12-0peration homecoming-the remain unaccounted for. repatriation of American prisoners of the Two high United State government of­Vietnam War-began here today. ficials in charge of prisoner matters 
United States Air Force planes took off unexpectedly left Clark Air Base for Hanoi in the early morning hours for Saigon and this morning with an 18-man advance Hanoi to retrieve the first 142 prisoners to team of medical, maintenance and be released by the Vietcong and North communications men. They were Roger E. Vietnamese. Shiels, Assistant to the Assistant Secretary 
Two Air Force hospital jets arrived in of Defense on War Prisoners, and Frank A. Saigon on schedule, an hour and a half Sieverts, Special Assistant to the Deputy before the scheduled repatriation of 19 Secretary of State for prisoner of war American soldiers and eight American matters. civilians at the Communist-held plantation Meanwhile, security was tightened town of Loc Ninh, 75 miles north of Saigon. throughout this huge base today, 
But bad weather delayed the especially around the runway where the repatriation in Hanoi. Military spokesmen returning prisoners were scheduled to land here said the North Vietnamese govern­and at the .hospital where they will be ment requested a two-hour delay because housed and examined for three or four of rain and morning ground fog in Hanoi. days before returning to the Unnited They were confident, however, that all 115 States for reunions with their families. American military men scheduled for As four C-141 medical evacuation planes release would be out .or'Hanoi today. with irridescent red crosses taped on their 
The repatriation was the first phase of tails awaited the take-off signal for Hanoi, prisoner exchanges due to be completed a red carpet was put into position near the within 60 days of the signing of the four­flight terminal. It will be unrolled so that party Vietnam cease-~ire agreement on the first repatriated prisoners can use it to .Jan. 27 in Paris. Approximately one-fourth get to ambular.ce buses standing by to of the 592 prisoners that the Communists carry them to the base hospital. said they were holding were include_d. on The mechanics of the prisoner pick-ups todav's repatriation lists. Those remammg wt-re completed here early yesterday were to be released in installments in t-vening. 




warld briefs 
(C) 1973 New York Times 

Basel, Switzerland--Most foreign exchange markets in Western Europe ~nd Jap.an were ordered closed today <Monday) as the major western mdustnal powers began intense bargaining over new patterns of currency values. Monetary officials were also trying to find out whether there was sufficient common ground for a new monetary conference. 
Washington--The Nixon Administration's claim to inherent authority to refuse to spend. money appropriated by Congress has persuaded Sm.. Sam, .J: Ervm Jr. to move toward an outright ban on the Presidents Impoundment of funds. Ervin, D--N.C., is head of the Senate .Judiciary subcommittee on separation of powers. 
New York--Firemen descended into the fire-blackened chasm of a huge ga~ tank on Staten. Island and labored through the day to recover the bodies o~ 40 men killed Saturday in an explosion and fire whose ca~se. remame~ ~nknown. Officials of the Texas Eastern Tran­s~Isswn Corporation, owner of the liquefied natural gas storage tank said that 37 laborers and three safety inspectors had been buried ~.n~er .the r~bbl~ of the tank's collapsed concrete dome. Several of­h~Jal .mvestigatJons have been started to determine whether safety\'Iolatwns caused the explosion. 
an ca111pu• l:aday 
7:30 pm-duplicate bridge, rathskellar, Iafortune, students and 
faculty welcome  
7: 30-meeting,  celtic  society,  in­ 
ternational room, Iafortune  
8:00,  10:00  pm-movie,  right  on,  

engineering auditorium, 50 cents 

NeW' budget may curtail loans 
by Neil Viii 
low-income students attending
Staff Reporter junior colleges and local com­munity colleges. The College Work The reorganization of student Study program would not be af­financial aid programs proposed fected by the new budget.

by President Nixon in his new Mrs. .June McCauslin, NotreFederal budget has caused con­Dame's Director of Financial Aid,fusion and uncertainty in the Notre commented on the situation: "IfDame financial aid office. 
the budget is passed, we will beAccording to Director of unable to renew any requests for
Financial Aid Mrs. June funds under the Educational
McCauslin, answers are not ex­Opportunity Grant Program,pected until Congress acts on the which was for low-income

budget. which eliminates 
Dbserver lnsiraht 

Educational Opportunity Grants families. It will be replaced by the and National Direct Student Basic Opportunity Grant, but we Loans. and replaces them with a ,know nothing yet as to how it will new program called the Basic be distributed, or how much money Opportunity Grant. will be available." 
According to the Student "Regarding the National Direct l<'inancial Aid booklet published by Student Loan. we will be able tore­Notre Dame, Educational Op­loan the money collected from portunity Grants are "Federal graduated students, but we will grants providing for annual pro-rate this money to up­stipends up to $1000 for students perclassmen already receiving 
with exceptional financial need loans. No money will be loaned to whose families can contribute little any new people." 
or nothing to the students' "What it amounts to," she said, Pducation and who without the "is that a familiar program may grant would be unable to attend tht be gone. and an unknown one may 
llniversitv. be coming into existence." 
The seiection of recipients is Such a problem is not new at made by the Director of Financial Notre Dame, however, noted Mrs. Aid from among the most needy McCauslin. "We went through the applicants and "in accordance same thing when the Educational with guidelines established by the Opportunity Grant program began Office of Education." in 191i5." 
These grants are not funded in At Notre Dame, incoming fresh­

the projected budget. National men and low-income minority Direct Student Loans. also not groups will be affected most by the funded. are given according to certain regulations set up by the National Defense Education Act. the Higher Education Act, and the <'ommissioner of the U.S. I>Ppartment of Health, Education, and Welfare. and the student recipients are selected by the University of Notre Dame. 
The proposed replacement program. the Basic Opportunity (;rant. is geared more towards 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Sf. Mary's College. Sub­scriptions may be purchased for sa per semester I 14 per year) from The Ob­server, 1:\ox Q, Notre Dame, Indiana ~6SS6. Second class postage paid, Notre 
· Dame Ind. 46556. 
WR B R presents 
McKENDREE SPRING 
with THE FLOCK and ETHOS 
Fri. Feb. 23 --7:30p.m. 
Morris Civic Aud. 
4.50 advance SS.OO day of concert 
A11 seats ,-eserved 
Tickets Available at: 
AUDITORIUM BOX OFFICE 
12·5 daily 
and Pandora's Book Store 


proposed changes. The Univer­sitv's Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships is unable to give incoming freshmen accurate information as to how much money is available. simply because the University itself knows very little until Congress acts on the budget. 
"I feel sorry for the poor kids who are applying to Notre Dame, because we really can't tell them anything yet as to how much money we can give them," said l\1rs. McCauslin. In many cases, the decision of whether or not to attend Notre Dame hinges upon the amount of financial aid offered, so many high school seniors with aspirations of attending Notre Dame are in a quandary. Low­income minority students will also have to look elsewhere for money. 
In the event that the new proposals are enacted, Mrs. McCauslin suggests that students seek loans from their local banks, through the State Guaranteed and Federally Insured Loan Programs, which are funded in the new budget. According to Mrs. 1\lcCauslin, "This program will be the workhorse if the new budget is passed." 
The President's new plan hurts private schools. such as Notre Dame and Purdue, more than public schools because of higher costs, but it is expected to increase enrollment at junior and com­munity colleges. The amount of 
(continued on page 6) 

Acareer in law ... 
WithOUt law SChOOl. 
When you become a Lawyer's Assistant, you'll do work traditionally doM by lawyers -work which is challenging, responsible and intellectually stimulating. Lawyer's Assistants are now so critically needed that The Institute for Paralegal Training can offer you a position in the city of your choice -and a higher starting salary than you'd expect as a recent college graduate. Here is a career as a professional with financial rewards that increase with your developing expertise. 
If you are a student of high academic standing and are interested in a legal career. come speak with our representative. 
Contact the Placement Office. A representative of The Institute will visit your campus on: 
TUESDAY,FEBRUARY20 
you, 

SPECIAL WEEKEND ROOM RATES FOR NOTRE DAME PARENTS OR VISITORS 
$6.95  $8.95  
Single occupancy  Double occupancy  
No  ~otre. Dam~  identi.fication  required,  just  

ment1on th1s ad. Effective any Fri., Sat. or Sun. thru June 15th, 1973 except for the weekend of May 18th. 
HICKORY INN MOTEL 50520 U.S. 31 North South Bend, Indiana 46635 
(219) 272-7555 3 miles North of the Tollroad. 
Cable T.V., Air Cond., Phones Send this ad to your Parents. 
February 12-15 (8-12 PM) 
Pitcher of Beer•••••••••.$1.00 
Stein of Beer.••••••••••• $ .20 
-Must be 21­



with this coupon 
Open Sundays from 4 to 10! 

bringsthebesttogether 713 E. Jefferson 


BarnabyS 
where good friends meet! 
REPEAT SPECIAL! 



Varied escort services suggested 
-~.,. ... t.aro~u•. lt.ltara.Ufta, tuch..._, ~.;if • A.ntoa/P..c• Carpa/l't.ata. hdaral Ser'#lc•· · 
2/9_/73 
A letter signed by 59 'Lewis Hall residents and suggesting two alternatives to the current escort protection service has been mailed to the director of Security. 
The escort service provides a security officer who will walk with groups of three or more persons at night u'pon request. Security Director Arthur Pears says it is "practically impossible to get an t>scort for every girL" 
The alternatives are a shuttle bus other than the Notre Dame-St. 1\lary's bus. and the designation of 

ND hosts chess tourney 
by Tom Bornholdt Day Editor 
The Midwest Intercollegiate l'ht>ss Tournament was held in La Fortune Student Center this wt>ekend. Fifteen teams from twelve area colleges competed in the tourney. 
Notre Dame sent two teams to the match. as did Indiana llniversity and Bowling Green. Notre Dame's A team finished in fifth place according to Frank Pilotte. president of the Notre Dame Chess Club. One Notre Dame player, Frank Antolino, won a trophy for achieving the third best board record. 
Indiana University placed first in the tournament with a 4-1 record. followed by Case Western, Northwestern. Bowling Green, and Notre Dame. 
The match started on Saturday morning with the first of five rounds. The last round of the tournament was completed Sun­day Pvening. The complex Swiss System was used for pairing the players. Each player was given ninety minutes to make his first forty~five moves. and then thirty minutes for each succeeding set of fifteen moves. 

Pilotte described the tournament as "part of our personal plans for a bigger tournament." However he declined to specify any details about this future event. 
PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Main Building 
twrnYI!VS 1'01: IIUX OP n:BRUARY 19 

tntat"Vi..,a are tor 111'11on and ~~;radu.u nudanu. Sia:n-up tchedulat are ln a-2.07, Main BU1ldinl• tntuvt.., U•• .an ba H1M:h4 ~d lltn•6 for ln pe·uon, Noun an 8:00 •·•· to 5!00 P••· uch day, a..:apt Friday, Tha Plac:.-nt tt.mal atv.. 
addUl-1 lnforwtlon raau·dtna lntarvlft'l and proeadurat. 
m. 19 l!w!!Hf Co!p!nr lac, 411Wu1aunatadalr..,, 
T'I•*'IMVM~CO!f!ny. 
IIIIo ln Mct. ~ vlth lu:et, or Jt.n. bacl<tround, Pvll-n Incorporated, llo\ ln Acct., l'flt,. t'ln, ldlwa llec:trlc CO!plnr. &'!I tnl'l.l. and r:,r, S'-" c-..nr. 
1M ta lilt. or otbar •Jora latnaaud la U~T 1:n ,._!1Utl.nJ, Taaatnat~utnc. 
IS, le tn 1.1., 1'1.1., 1'1.1.1.0., Kqr.sct., Hilt, Arthur 1-• 'Co. 1M ta Acct. POA. Jtl, 

rn. 2o 
COfttlrwa!~\.(~!!::~• "-tlonal l!nk ..dTtl&lt
l'IT'7il. 
MIA vlth Pln and leon, bac:ta;round, 
M"ltatlla Llh lt.II\II'IIKI Soc lett ot U.S. A 1M aDili 114, T!!! Kll-llk" a-d, M laC. I. 1&111 K.l. lilt. la M&t. and lilt. MIA wtch Mit. • t6;t, MckJ:r-da. 
rrturt \!!C. II, .. hi 01.1. h'oetar • GeliitJh co. -Sal•• •t. 
M, M, 114, MIA. 
lot. ad ..., CCI!III!!!J· 
I,K,D tn Ch.l, aad 01•. 

,.•• 21 
MI'Ollol.utlcat SJit-Olv'htoo.. i,I'I,D {. l.i., J.J., PU. 
:r~·,~=r.:~:~:::ktr-da or tec:h. 
h&cq~. 
Procter • c:a.bla • A.r:<:o.e.ttrw • rtnanea Dapt. M, M, 1M, MIA •
............. 
I,I'I,D tn 01.1. and 01•. \t!lloa carbide Corp. • Llrula DhhlOft, &'!1, PIS In M.l. and Ch,l. 
p.s. C.p!l'al Acc-tl!J Ottlu 1M t. Acct., Ph., I'IIJt. I'GI4 vt.th A.cct. bac:kar-d. 

Pll 2: ~ric• !lo!!lt.al S!P!lt Corp. 
::;t:I,~IA, MM. 
IU. 11M teA. 
:n·~-::-.:~ llatt-1 .... ot 1'111-...... 
ltUropoUtaa l.tta lii.IUI'IMa Ca, All ......aanddiec:lpUaea. Pt.tub!t!t! ""ttonal .... 
1M arM MIA. 
:!~T'...t ':3"~~::-· ~ .. -~..... •· . 
t.¥:"~·~. 
strategic places as "escort stops." 
The shuttle system, according to the letter.would ease the dilemna of handling too many requests at one time. and "remove the pain and danger for students to walk on campus-sometimes with heavy packages and groceries-when cars are not allowed after 6 p.m." 
Under the "escort stop" plan, graduate and undergraduate students could wait at designated areas where an escort would stop l'very 20 or 30 minutes, much the \\'ay students wait for the shuttle Office and the University would take some steps to improve the 

THE NOTRE DAME-ST. 
AFTER THE RAIN 
JOHN BOWEN'S absorbing tl;leatrical morality play surrounding events 200 years hence -after the rain. 
ebruary 16, 17, 22, 23, 24 at 8a30 p.m washington Hall, Notre Dame campus Students/Faculty/staff $1.50 Reservationsa 284-4176 (Business Hours) 
283-7054 Show Ni hts) 


Save up to $3.00! Major label LP's! Top artists! 
Many, many selections in this special purchase. Classics included! 
Hundreds of records! Come early fur best selection! 
Sale starts today! 
HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE .Notre ~Dame. Indiana
.., • 1'1"-.. ~ •,. _, 
,..,~!....:~ ;;.• ': .... ·~;~1~. ~ . -_ .~;·....=~. 
-~~Get3Your favorites at Btg:DisCOiintS! 
Pverv 15 minutes. 
For example, a stop might be located at the library or computer building. Persons wishing to go to the Huddle. Lewis or Brownson Halls. or the infirmary would gather there and wait for their l'scort. The escort would then accompany the entire group to l'ach destination. 
The signers sympathize and understand the rationale for the present system. they feel a "more equitableand efficient way" can be round. 

They questioned "the prac­ticality of such a policy" as now exists. because they feel a woman who had to walk alone, because she could not find two other persons going to the same place, would be an easy victim for one or more would-be attackers. 
The mechanics of the alter· natives are not detailed in the letter. although it was suggested that students might operate the shuttle §ervice. The letter leaves it to the University to determine the feasibility of the suggestions. 
The residents wondered if Securitv has considered alter­natives· to the present system, which is a year old. "Nonetheless," they wrote, "we earnestly hope that the Security pr~sent policy of campus escort, which does not provide equitable protection to the students." 
Copies also were sent to the provost. the acting vice president lor student affairs, and the vice president for advanced studies. 
Study in Guadalajara, Mexico 
Fully accredited, 20-year UNIVER­SITY OF ARIZONA Guadalajara Summer School offers July 2·August 11, anthropology, art, education, folklore, pography, history, gov­ernment, language and literature. Tuition $165; board and room $211. Write: International Programs, Unl· varsity of Arizona, Tucson 85721. 
MARY 1 S THEATRE 
!"'";". .... • 







THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
John Abowd  Dan Thornton  
Editor-in-Chief  NEWS: 283-1715  Business Manager  
EDITORIALS: 283-8661  
Don Ruane  BUSINESS: 283-7471  Joe Butler  
Executive Editor  Advertising Manager  

Monday, February 12, 1973 
Time to Produce 
The robberies that plagued the campus replacement of Pears is a move of little in the last two weeks have seemingly consequence. The mere removal of the ended and we have the opportunity to man does not create a better security. view them in retrospect. The change has to come within the 
The major incident in the series of department and within their security crimes was the robbery in Alumni Hall. procedures. That happened 15 days ago yet no action The removal of Pears becomes an issue has been taken, no suspects ap­only if he fails to do his job and a major prehended. The crime has gone un­failure would be hunting for the suspects solved. In mid-week, Director of Security in the campus robberies and coming up Arthur Pears claimed that the field of empty. suspects has been narrowed, but the As it stands now though, the removal of glimmer of hope that his statement the man from office would not change produced has died in the resulting anything. Besides, Pears stands in high inactivity. favor within the Notre Dame ad­
The other robberies in the series in the ministration and calling for his removal ACC, LaFortune Center, and Pangborn-­would also be inconsequential. just to name a few--also have gone without notice or activity or solution. Must Produce 
These crimes must be solved. And it is 
time for security to produce. So, the burden now lies on Pears to come up with both a solution for the Replace Pears? security problems of the campus and arrests in the recent crimes. It is crucial 
Many have called for the replacement that he fill the bill on both counts. This is of Arthur Pears as Security Chief not an issue which can be allowed toslide claiming that it will help solve the by as people forget about it. A solution problem. must be in the works. 
Despite these vocal protestations, the Jerry Lutkus 

Letters... 
the South Hall like her.
Dining Hall reason for collective bargaining presently, who cannot foresee the
One of the guys 
emergence of it in the (near) future. Is teaching, in itself, just Editor: 
"a job"? or is it a vocation whose I'm one of the students who Faculty Unions end is the pursuit of wisdom and 
works at the South Dining HalL service to students? With all the bad news and sad news 
On the other hand, liberties it gets kind of depressing to read. I 
Editor: taken by the administration not just want to say and I think the only jeopardize the future of in­
Whether or not unionization, Jet
other guys will agree. 
dividual teachers, but also corrode 
alone collective bargaining, is a 
faith and confidence in being a
competent solution for faculty­
I<:very Friday is payday here at 
member of the Notre Dame
administration problems;
the dining hall and the girl that faculty. What alternatives do the
however. the suggestion alone
gives out the checks is really a faculty member_s have?
appears to be of some merit.
marvelous person, she is friendly, In short. the problem seems to be
I cannot imagine faculty
courteous. Every week on her one that could be resolved by a
unionization without causing
office door she has a sign which is more responsive and more sen­
additional friction between the two
different every week like "Hello sitive administration. It has the
parties, as well as creating the
there payday today" etc. I think power to prove that collective
externality of increased costs for 
bargaining is not really necessarythis is fantastic. It really makes a all students. Professor Goerner's at Notre Dame.
r person feel good. I know she works arguments against collective r hard. If you're down in the dumps bargaining seem to be accurate. 
Sincerely, r this sort of thing picks a guy up. Moreover, although salary in­Dan RockWish there were more people at creases may not be the major 
I daarwabury prry trudeau 
r---------------------~ 

r 
' 


Dpinian A Last Hope 
fred antczak 
When you lose something you love, you find it brutally unjust for it 
not to live on in some way. So this started out as a wistful retelling of 
the Farll~v experience, a strange object indeed for sentimentality. 
Urged on. too, by the Arts and Letters Advisory Board and others to 
make public the story, I hope that Farley's memory and lessons won't 
be capriciously lost. But out of context, the story would sound like 
maudlin archaeology. I feel I should also spend some time musing 
abo•Jt what a university is for, and measuring that against what's 
happening here beneath the Dome. 
The contemporary ideal of a university is a place whose service is 
to teach us techniques to satisfy our desires. Whether it be a more 
l'fficient way of plundering nature, or a more reliable method of 
modifying human behavior, the university remains a trade schooL 
The dorm is a barracks where the apprentices board, unusually 
conducive to a surprisingly tolerated, perpetual immaturity. The 
unique mark of Notre Dame has bene that what rage in us rose against 
the indefiniteness of this infancy could only be drowned in the most 
opulent of jockshops. With the advent of the services of women ontCJ 
campus-which literally is the goal of co-education at Notre Dame as 
Father Hesburgh unembarrassedly presented it in his Flanner talk­
we are given another alternative, a distractingly noisy social (sic) life. 
This achieved, we'll be able to choose whether to bury our human 
frustration in either sweat, or in sound-and, when lucky, flesh. Which 
is not an unfair characterization of the liberal bourgeois perception of 
what living is for. 
As dissonant as the cry of a prophet amid the fleshpots come the 
voices of men among us, suggesting that an education of methods and 
techniques doesn't address the fundamental, germane problems of 
living. These problems, they insist, can't be solved by a quantitative 
equation. for men aren't behaviorist slaves, in quivering and 
inescapable submission to their passions. Frank O'Malley and Ed­
ward Goernereach have submitted experimental college proposals 
based on the simple idea that people in college ought to reflect o'n their 
ultimate significance and ends, and that since people are fallible and 
needful, this reflection ought to be done together-t.directed if possible 
by those who've reflected on such problems longer and deeper. To talk 
to another person who is in some way agonizing over the same 
problems that you are, results in a bond between you, just as among 
any group engaged in a common purpose. 
Concretely in Farley, these directed discussions have only begun 
and on a modest scale. Collegiate Seminar was led in closed Farley 
sections by an instructor who also lived in the hall as an RA. This 
arrangement could be done in every hall, to hire a staff of RA's and 
rectors who can teach. Anyway, four sections of Freshman 
Colloquium are constituted in the same way, taught by older members 
of the hall; this forces the issues between the people of the hall into 
conversation, where the arid "common sense" of self-interest always 
seems less convincing and legitimate than when covert and unspoken. 
l<'inally, generous hall fellows led directed reading in the hall. The goal 
was simply a matured ability to talk without embarrassment about 
the more seriou~ problems of one's life, as if one man's experience and 
learning was in some basic way important and related to another 
man's needs. 
There are two difficulties in this increased closeness. First, it's hard 
to be known so well by the people you talk to; you can't bullshit quite so 
easily. so the tendency is to keep out of the conversation, and ner­
vously mock it as a substanceless search for "significance." The more 
matured and complex difficulty is that all the conversers must admit 
their fallibility, and particpate as no more than an equal in the 
reasoning (and justice) going on. Take a larger example: the main 
dissatisfaction with the administration's loco parentis is not that we 
categoricaly prefer the satiation of our whims to being a com­
passionate and contributing human being; rather, what hurts and 
worries us is our leaders' unwillingness to confess their own human 
indigence (a traditional Catholic teaching, remember? Original sin), 
as if they had solved all the radically human questions that, if we are 
to escape an indefinite childhood, we MUST wrestle with. Self ap­
pointed prophets, who rule by force instead of leading by the un­
coercive gravity of what they should merely suggest, really never 
teach (which is a way of saying that Notre Dame, in the measure this 
is true of her, is failing). They merely form habits in the more sub­
missive and slavish, and only make resistant the very people whom 
they most desire to convert. 
Notre Dame has a chance in the coming months to genuinely open some conversations, e.g., the sort of effort that Professor Kerby's letters, which sometimes grace this publication, seem engaged in. For example, read the faculty debate over unionizing when it comes up; excluding the selfishness that sells its loyalty to the highest bidder, perhaps we'll see some real self-examination on the nature of teaching and learning. And thanks to the reasonable questions raised by the latest Scholastic, perhaps Father Burtchaell will enter a dialogue with us about the nature of leadership, and of the role of the moral citizen. Indeed, we might learn as much about Notre Dame as a community if he maintains his majestically intransigent silence. 
But at last it's my hope that such conversations don't need to start on a grand level, that the end of Farley lead not to an interminable condemnation of hall life here to zooish banality, but rather to rebirths everywhere of the idea of a hall as a community-a community of speech. But then, the hope of rebirth has always been the final com­mon hope of every Diaspora, of every human parting. 
the observer 
Managing Editor: Joe Abell News Editor: Anthony Abowd Editorial Editor: Jerry Lutkus Features Editor: Beth Hall Snorts Editor: Jim Donaldson Associate Editors: Bob H•gg,ns, Ed Ellis, Maria Gallagher 
Special Projects Editor: Dan Barrett 
Night Editor: Marlene Zloza 
Ass't Night Editor: Chris Sullivan Layout: Kathy Kelly Day Editor: Tom Bornholdt 
Copy Editors: Ed Ellis, Mike O'Hare 
Typists: Mary Romer. Harry Chung, Steve Roper (but not Bob Steinmetz) Hal Operator: Mike Goetz Pictureman: Jerome Night Controller: Dave Rust (Go Subiaco Trolans) 
Editorials printed in The Observer reflect the opinion o·f fhe writer on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial comment. 




good playing was not enough 
the ten commandments! 
Santana last Friday night certainly showed how much a band can change when its leader goes through a personal crisis. And in this case. the change was un­fortunately for the worst. 
The concert started out with a big enough bang. that much is for sure. Afterwarming up on some percussion-oriented piece for about five or six minutes, the band went into a barely recognizable version of "Every Step of the Way" from their latest album, Caravanserai. The explosion came atthe climax, of the song and Santana took off. Incorporating a great wealth of new material. a surprising move since the album is still fairly new and the band really hasn't had that much time to ievelop different versions of it. Santana began a jam that was nothing short of excellent. 
Playing to a picture of Jesus Christ set up on a small speaker, Carlos himself made his lily-white guitar cry out loudly. He would throw his head back and hold a seemingly impossible note for minutes, the pained t'xpression on his face giving the impression that not only was the note to go out to Jesus, but his soul also. 
But one wondered after a while. As the 
concert went on, Santana would alternately 
lead his band with an iron hand, stand by 
himself and play to himself or go and play to 
the picture. Eventually, he only went to the 
picture when a spotlight picked him out for a 
solo. Sincerity or showmanship? 
At the same time, the concert itself began to degenerate. The fact that the band members to Santana only and Santana to himself or the picture had 
Little BiiJ Sc:reen 
art ferranti
• 
The Ten Commandments, the monumental 1956 blockbuster which only received one Oscar for special effects, makes its television premiere on "The ABC Sunday Night Movie" this weekend. Beginning at eight, this four hour fifteen minute spectacular will be shown in one part. Charleton Heston plays Moses against Yul Brynner <with hair) as the Egyptian pharoah and a huge cast in lesser roles. The parting of the Red Sea looks like dining hall jello but the characterizations and cinematographymake the picture first-run watching. 
Tonight. two pilots will be previewed on NBC in place of their movie. Tenafly is a black cop turned detective. Played by . James McEachin, Harry Tenafly is no Shaft being married and still trying to get out and be a sleuth. At ten-thirty, Valerie Perrine. who played Montana Wildhack in Slaughter-House Five in all of nature's glory. plays "Lady Luck" who happens to bounce on the scene whenever somebody needs help. Of course, if you watched part one of The Longest Day lasLnight, you should watch part two tonight on 28 at nine. 
Another NBC pilot stars Sammy Davis, .Jr., as "Poor Devil" who tries to recruit souls for the domain of Lucifer played by British horror star Christopher Lee. Gino Conforti. who played the barber in Man of taMancha. is cast as Lucifer's bumbling left-hand man. In this ninety minute comedy, Davis gets 'Jne last chance to recruit a San Franciscan salesman (Jack Klugman of "The Odd Couple"). This airs Wednesday at 8:30 pre-empting "The Wednesday Mystery Movie" on 16. 
Wild in the Steets. with Christopher Jones 
("The Legend of Jesse James") and Shelley 
Winters. airs on the CBS late movie Tuesday 
at 11 :ao Why they did not air this on 
primetime hours is a mystery since this first 
run flick is a good film. .Jones runs for become painfully obvious. It was as if the band was practicing and didn't really care that there was a packed house out there watching them. For the audience, the same effect would have been achieved if a movie had been shown. There was almost a total lack of rapport with the crowd, something people come to a concert to get. 
Jn addition, the music, after forty-five minutes straight, just became dull and tended to blur into a vague image of tim­bals. congas. and keybords. Music that was quite refreshing in the ACC after the harder rock sounds of Chicago, The Guess Who and Yes simply becameto much. Nothing was outstanding and very little was different from the rest. 
There were some high spots, however. In addition to the stunning "Every Step of the Wav." the version of "Samba Pa Ti" from Ab;axas was particularly good. The slow build-up to a masterful electric piano solo and back into the gentle original motif was excellently done. Other high points were the finalf', ''Se A Cabo" and the encore, "Toussaint L'Overture." 
The playing itself could not be faulted. Besides Santana himself, drummer Mike Shrieve and percussionist Jose Areas shone. Keyboard men Rich Kermonde and Tom Koster went up and down in quality while they went back and forth, switching keyboards again and again. Everyone seemed exuberant except bassist Doug Hauch. who looked as if he had nothing on his mind except to leave as soon as possible. All the musicians amazed the crowd with th_eir endurance, especially Areas and 
president on a youth vote, gets elected, and decides to put anyone over thirty into concentration camps. . It may sound humorous, but the plot twists into a horror story of politics and power. 
Friday, CBS at nine will rerun They Call Me MISTER Tibbs. the second of the three Virgil Tibbs <Sidney Poitier) films. This time we are introduced to Barbara McNair as his wife, a new locale <San Francisco instead of Philadelphia which was the city he was said to have come from in In the Heat of the Night). and a new murder mystery. It is a good. not\great suspense film. Speaking of suspense, this is "Suspense Week" on "ABC's Wide World of Entertainment" at 
II:30 tonight through Thursday. I shall just list the titles since they are all made-for-TV . 
Tonight, Someone at the Top of the Stairs; Tuesday, The Suicide Club; Wednesday, The Screaming Skull; and .Thursday, And the Bones Came Together. Friday is "In Concert". 
Thursday features the garbage entitled Valley of the Dolls, a CBS repeat from earlier this season which scored high on the ratings. This trash from the Susann novel stars (???) Sharon Tate, Barbara Parkins, and Patty Duke who jumped from bed to pills to bed to make it in Hollywood. Skip it. 
The rest of the films are made-for-TV quickies. Tomorrow at 8:00 on NBC Dennis Weaver stars as Abe Lincoln (to com­memorate his birthday today in case you have forgotten) in The Great' Man's Whiskers--supposedly true--on why he grew his beard. Cute. At 8:30 on ABC tomorrow, The Great American Beauty Contest will air. With Bob Cummings, Eleanor Parker, Louis Jordan and a host of sweet young things, this drama spoofs the flt~sh-tests. And also tomorrow, The Horror at 37,000 Feet at 8:30 on CBS has William Shatner, Roy Thinnes, Chuck Connors, Buddy Ebsen, Lyn Loring (Mrs. Roy Thinnes), Tammy conga player Armando Peraza, who worked frantically for almost an hour and a half, and with the sheer quantity of music produced. 
But good playing was not enough to save the evening for Santana. Though the group played snatches of :nearly everything they recorded <avoiding that disasterous third album very carefully until the encore), in 

Grimes, France Nuyen, Will Hutchins < "Sugarfoot" among other), and Brenda Benet <Mrs. Bill Bixby) trapped in a 747 by an unearthly force. I hope Shatner remembers his stuff as Captain Kirk in his "Star Trek" days, or maybe Thinnes is still battling "The Invaders." Tune in and find out. Playing against that at 10:00 on NBC is "America", its theme this week being "Domesticating the West". Shirley Jones sheds her Marian the Librarian and Mrs. Partridge roles on Wednesday to star in The Girls of Huntington House, the last made­for-TV film about'a girl's boarding school. This airs at 8:30 on ABC. 
pleasure of viewing The Poseidon Adventure last weekend currently running at the State Theater until Friday when Walt Disney's The Sword and the Stone will begin show­ings. The Poseidon Adventure concerns itself with a top-heavy passenger ship on its last voyage being overturned (<;apsized for all you maritrme buffs) by a ninety-foot tidal wave a few minutes after midnight NewYearsand the attempts of ten people to climb to the stern and surface by way of the propeller shaft. The cast is excellent, each turniP.g in a performance which deliniates their characters from the classic sterio­types upon which they are based, with the exception of Eric Shea who plays the kid Hobin. He is the typical Hollywood brat who knows everything and is never wrong. Gene Hackman gives a better performance than in The French Connection and should be nominated for the Oscar again. <In­cidentally, the Oscar nominations have to be in today to the Academy of Arts and ' 
joseph abel/ 

addition to an unusually large amount of unreleased material, the boredom and lack of rapport, vocals and favorite songs finally got to the crowd, many of whom left before the end. Sad. 
Almost in contrast, Bobby Womack established an incredibly good rapport almost immediately. With a very explosive opening, Womack and his band, F1eace. definitly a band to watch, had the ACC audience wrapped around its collective finger. Womack was a very dynamic person and singer, something that became most ppparaent when another band member tried to sing. Womack showed his skill on guitar also when he alternated singing and playing. 
Peace was phenominal. A special highlight of their show was the second song, a long jamming song with a solo from nearly every part of the band. Sporting a highly infectuous beat. the jazzy number perked up the ACC more than Santana ever would Ia ter in the night. Lead guitarist Mike Something or jOther particularly shone through out the show. 
Other outstanding numbers were a curious version of "Sweet Caroline" and the finale, "Understanding." The only fault of the show was the tendency of Womack to degenerate into screaming lyrics, a trick he doesn't really need. That horn section could also have been put to better use. 
In short, a disappointing concert Santana has quite a ways to go before he gets his band up to the peaks he was reportedly reaching ·before the changeover. He'd best start now. 
Sciences.) Hackman plays a liberal preacher who takes charge of the situation and leads the survivors to safety. 
Ernest Borgnine plays a New York cop married to Stella Stevens, a one-time prostitute. Borgnine is at times a bit over­bearing but he makes a good counterpoint to Hackman. Of course, Miss Stevens is still the fantasticsex-symbol shewas a few years ago before she took a break from films. And, unlike a certain raven-haired sex bomb who just started up a night-club routine in Las Vegas, Miss Stevens can and does act superbly. Shelley Winters turns another great performance as the loving .Jewish wife to Jack Albertson, a complete opposite to her real personality. Red Buttons and Carol Lynley play two lonely people who fall in love and help each other through this ordeal. Pamela Sue Martin, Roddy McDowell, Arthur O'Connell, and Leslie Nielson also add to the excitement. 
And there is plenty of excitement. The Godfather, while excellent, does not maintain the suspense that 'this film generates. There has been only one other film that has kept me on the edge of my seat as Poseidon did and I had read the book to that one before--The Andromeda Strain. Irwin Allen, who produced this film for 20th Century Fox, scored with its special effects, especially when the tidal wave hit and people crashed to the ceiling. I admit I love it. The stars did all their own stunt work, which added to the movie's ;plausibility. One final note to whet your appetites, not all of the stars make it. So, before Thursday or over the breaks at home, catch The Posiedon Adventure. Trivia Quiz: Name the pictures that these five Poseidon Adventure stars earned their Oscars in; (a) Gene Hackman (b) Shelley Winters (cl Red Buttons (d) Ernest Borgnine <el Jack Albertson. 
answer on p. 7 



Pandora's opening today at new location 
by'Mary Janca Staff Reporter 

Due to a shortage of space at its former address at South Bend and Notre Dame avenues, Pandora's Bookstore has moved to larger quarters at South Bend and St. Louis Avenues this weekend and will open for business at its new location today. 
Originally, Pandora's management wanted to build on to their present store, but after ml'Pting opposition from the landlord. decided to move, ex­plained .John Eidel, manager. 
"Thl' nl'W building is about two­thirds larger. and by moving into it. wP hope to handle forty percent more books," said manager Steve Havmond. 
I;J'l'sently. Pandora's has ap­proximately 20,000 books. but only has room for half of them. added Havmond. 
With the extra space, Pandora's hopl'S to restore the "casual at­mosphere" which its founders wished to create. Raymond con­tinued. 
"Wl' wanted to have a couple of chairs. a coffee pot and a table in the store so people could relax, have a cup of coffee, or read a magazine. Hight now, though, l'verv inch of the floor is covered with.books." said Raymond. 
Summer work 

"We are moving very reluc­students. who will find increasing tantly," Raymond added. Most of difficulty in reaching the store with the regular customers, he noted, its move farther away from the are Notre Dame or St. Mary's campus. 

Pandora's new facility provides two-thirds more space and room for forty percent more books. 
Directors have done everything but camp on people's doorsteps in attempting to clarify the situation. 
]ob information to be released 
jobs in federal agencies, national We've run out of steam-we've 
parks. summer camps, and 
said all we can say. We just have to overseas. 
wait now and see what happens." 
by Mark Derheimes Staff Reporter 

Students working to find sum­mer jobs through the Notre Dame Placement Bureau and the Alumni Office should expect information soon. according to Mr. Richard Willemin. Director of the Placement Bureau. 
Mike .Jordan. assistant director of the Alumni Association, also noted last week that he was con­tacting Alumni Club Presidents this wt>ek to determine the activity and success of the program. 
Tht> Student Alumni .Job Program. begun last Fall by Jim <'Iarke. attempts to utilize the nationwide Notre Dame alumni dubs to find summer work for students. According to Willemin. "Students should expect to hear directlv from the Alumni club 
Corp.. Detroit, all majors; General American Life Insurance, St. Louis. math; W.R. Grace and Co., Baltimore. Ch.E.; Beloit Corp., Beloit. Wise., M.E.; Eastman Kodak. Hochester, N.Y., all BA, Eng., Science; Mutual Benefit Life Insurance Co., Newark, math and all AL: Mead .Johnson, Evansville, Ind .. chemistry and biology; N .A.S.A., Cleveland, all Eng. physical science; Pratt Whitney, East Hartford, Conn., A.E. and M.E.; Rochester <Ind.) Metal Products Corp., all Eng., and Science; American Railway Engineering Association. all Eng.. 
Pick up applications and ad­c!rl'sses for the above firms at the Placement Bureau. More com­panies are expeeted to respond at a later date. 
The Placement Bureau also has information concerning summer 

presidents or assigned com.mi.ttee Additional seats 
ht>ad of a club when and If J.t,ls have been found." d b CAC 
.Jordon asked that studen~') ~rrange yfollow up on the jobs for which the} have applied. "It is important that for Marceau's 
the student be aware of what the 
alumni group has done," 




said pantomime show· 
.Jordan. 

If an alumni group secures a The C'ultural Arts Commission position for a student and the announced today that the per­studmt cannot follow up on an formance by Marcel Marceau, on 
offer . .Jordan asks that the student Ft>b. 16th at O'Laughlin notify him or the club president as Auditorium is sold out. No tickets soon as possible. · remain at either the CAC office or 
The annual Placement Bureau the other ticket outlet, the. summer job program contacts I American National Bank in South Pmployers directly. , Bl•nd. 
Willemin stated that the summer 1 However. for those who still wish job situation is "slowly im-to see the performance ap­proving" and that "several em-proximately 100 folding-chairs will ployers have already indicated be set up behind the last row of the that they wish to receive ap-main floor and the balcony. These plications and resumes from Notre Iwill be sold on a general ad­Dame students.. ~ostly at the mission. first-come basis on the sophomore and JUnior level. night of the performance, for $3.00. 
According to Willemin, the IThe performance is at 8:00 p.m. following employers have summer and the box office will open at 7:15 job openings: McLouth Steel p.m. 

Financial considerations were not important factors in the dt>cision to move, stated employee and founder Kay Monica. Rent, howl'ver. will be less, she asserted. 
"This isn't the kind of business that someone is going to make a lot of money on." she commented, "hut we're doing well for a new business and it gets better as time goes by." 
"We are concerned, though, about :he possibility that we may lose business because people may not know where we are," she said. 
The move will generally in­rrease profits. she believes. "We're hoping that the new store will be more comfortable, so pl'ople will be able to browse more, 
Student may face 
difficulties in obtaining loans 
(contimted from page 2) 

monev available is about the same as that in the old program, but the 
priorities  for  its  use  have  been  
changed.  
"It  must  be  remembered,  

however. that the new plan is subject to the approval of Congress," Mrs. McCuaslin cautions. "We may get the new program, we may get the old one, or Congress may set up something entirely different. Financial Aid 

Wednesday is 
Valentine's Day 
Send her flowers! ! 

~FLORIST 
GIFTS 

111 WEST WAYNE ST. 
PHONE 232-7976 




"LET'S GET ACQUAINTED" 
GRENOLA We Specialize 
Reg 59' 
in 29' with Natural this Ad 
1340 MIRACLE LANE -MISHAWAKA. INDIANA 46544 
Foods Limit 1 per person TOWN & COUNTRY Exp. 3·1·73 
259-7283 

Sho in Center 
Anyone wishing to apply for a position with the Campus 
Orientation Committee contact Dave Caruso or Dan Schipp (3378) 


or the Student Government . 
... '-4.!.ft•-~.~~~,Ho,. !'··••· ., ....
L 

. "':' ··~·-~:.~ .... ·"Jj-.r . ··_., ·. . ...,. 
Office :tf·ltl)' &~~!.~::~~· ·.·


,;, ·:tuary· 2.~ 

~· .. ·. •' ~
"'-..

1· •.-·:-'' •'• r ~.-•. • • ''• 
to a·rtange for an iri erview. 
........:.._ ..,..... ... 
and so we will be able to display the books better." she said. 
Pandora's Bookstore originated in September, 1971 when five former students. including two Notre Dame alumni, decided to start a business, Monica stated. 
"A bookstore just seemed like a natural choice." she said. "We all liked to read and thought this was a way or providing a service while enjoying what we are doing." 
Since that time, she continued, three of the original founders left and were replaced. 
"In the vear and a half Pan­dora's has· been in existence," l\lonica concluded, "we have grown in the number of people we have working with us, as well as in the number of books and services \l'l' can provide." 

of cinematic poetry."-vAo•nv 
-Otto Prwmlnaer 
THI OlfiOINAL LAST POETS IN lfiOHT ON/ A FILM BY HERBERT 

DANSKA ·WOODIE KING PRODUCTION 
SUAC 

a & 10 p·.m.~ '·-~ MondaY' F~b~.~.l-~ ,_· Engine.;rf ri'g Au.d. 
50' 








ND feels effects of NSF cutbacks 
by Tom Drape Staff Reporter 

Two Notre Dame research institutes will be terminated August 1 due to shifting Federal emphasis in Research and Development and subsequent federal budgetary cutbacks and restrictions for riscal vear 1974. 
According to Dr. Robert Gordon, Notre Dame Vice-President of Advance Studies, the national reductions will have widespread effect at the national, regional. and local levels, especially at colleges and universities. 
The two institutes to be terminated are the Geology Department's Earth Sciences Institute and the Mathematics Depart­ment's Comprehensive Mathematics Institute. Both are under grants from the National Science Foundation. <NSFl. 
The primary impact will be loss of funds for graduate work and research. This will force students to pay their way or seek financial assistance through the Office of Education's general student assistance programs. "The only bright spot in any of this is that only the dedicated student will trv to continue, Gordon commented. 
·The college housing program was also terminated on January 5, 1973 because of the budget. According to Gordon's office, the Department of Housing and Urban Dt•velopment placed what is described as a ·•temporary hold" on college housing applications. · 
The budget document said existing 
\. 
commitments under the program will continue to be honored. 
The Budget 
Washington's budgetary cutbacks in Hesearch and Development follow policy directions established last year. Special attention is directed towards research involving immediate returns such as t•nergy and cancer and the phasing out of basic. long-term research. 

As Gordon pointed out, the priorities are 
defense and quick-payoff research. The 
rise in Defense and military-related fields 
guch as the Atomic Energy Commission 
will be from 8.9 billion this year to 9.4 
billion next year. The main recipients in 
the applied shor.-term fields are health 
related areas, non-nuclear energy 
research. and transportation. 
The basic research budget is going to 
remain at a stand-still. According to NSF 
figures. it will rise only 14 million dollars. 
Overgeneralizations 
The Nixon Administration argues that, "the general need for a greater number of biomedical research scientists has passed." According to Gordon, this is an "overgeneralization." He feels Washington's stand to be a "matter of judgment." 
The Department of Health, Education, and Welfare's budget summary also noted that the scientists are such as to call for them to bear the costs of training them­selves. 

"Again overgeneralization," said Dr. Gordon. "they are confusing the incomes of Ph.D.'s with those of M.D.'s." 
The V .P. of Advanced Studies noted the government's overgeneralization in nursing as an example' of this. Over the last three fiscal years, 1972, '73, and the upcoming '74, budgetary allotments have been cut in half each year, according to National· Science Foundation statistics. The 1974 budget in nursing in terms of institutional assistance is down to 17 million dollars. 
Regionally 
Effects on a regional level are being felt as well. according to Gordon's office. The Indiana Regional Medical Program <RMPl and the entire RMP structure throughout the country will be starting "phasing out" plans for their programs. 
The President's budget included no funding beyond June 30, 1973 for grants and contracts to Regional Medical Programs. Some grant extensions might possibly be permitted after the ter­mination date but only under "special conditions." 
A budgetary reduction from 125 million in fiscal year 1973 down to approximately 55 million for fiscal year '74 is forcing the phase-out. 
Impoundment 
"What has happened," said Gordon, "is that in fiscal year 1972 the R & D funds were impounded, in 1973 they· were budgeted. and now in fiscal '74 they are going to be impounded again." 
Gordon continued by citing NSF figures for budget allocations for National and Special Research Programs, which for fiscal year '72 were 85.9 million, for 1973 they wre 114.8 million, and for fiscal year 1974 it will be 99.6 million. 
"In effect, it's been over 2 years since budgeted funds have gone to Research and Development," he said. 
Impoundment is carried out through the President's Office of Management and Budget headed by Caspar Weinberger. A recent bill introduced by Senator Sam Ervin requires the President to notify Congress when he impounds funds or authorizes the impounding of funds. 
The bill's provisions would further call for approval of funds impounded by the House and Senate and a call for the President to halt it. 
Unexpected 
Gordon and Dr. Frank Kobayashi, Vice President of Research and Sponsored Pro~rams, both agree that they were leary of the new budget before its announcement but shocked afterwards. 
"We had a feeling that he (the President) might do what has happened but never seriously imagined he would go this far," said Gordon. "The national, regional and University impact are still 1to be felt." 

SMC may get Observer 
LeMans halls, and part of

The drive to bring The Observer trivia quiz 
McCandless.

back to the Saint Mary's campus is 
As soon as the sufficient funds 

answers

into its second week, with fifty-two are received by The Observer,. Answers to Trivia Quiz:of the required eighty per cent Editor .John Abowd has agreed to (A) The French Connection <~lready collected. 
(8 l A Patch of Blue and The Diary of Anne Frank <Cl
begin campus deliveries again for 

Holy Cross Hall President Gail general distribution. 
Sayonara (D) Marty

Pocus yesterday reported that the Students who have not yet paid 
<El The Subject Was Roses. 

campus response has been good, the $2.00 subscription fee for two and the present results do not yet semesters may contact their wing include returns from Regina and and floor representatives. 
FIRE UP YOUR SWEETHEART with an OBSERVER Valentine's Day 




Classified Ad 

Ads will be taken Monday from 10-5 & Tuesday from 10 • 1 

OBSERVER Ads get results I 
.... ~-­
• : .,.... 0 .., 
;~. .i ~ •. 4 •.o. • ·o• .•.;.: 
....o o."W• ·~y:o· ••· • .~:-o·· "W 

Applications  are  now  being accepted  for  the  
position of  
Editor-in-chief  
The Observer  

Submit a resume to John Abowd no later than noon Wednesday, Feb. 14. 



by Jim Donaldson 

Notre . Dame an early 10-5 lead Crotty started things with a
Sports Editor 

hut. with Crawford and Bob .Jones three-point play followed with a doing the scoring, LaSalle grabbed layup. Novak hit a tip-in and a
Bothered by inconsistency, 

a 15-14 advantage with 12:12 to short jumper and Brokaw stole theNotre Dame had trouble subduing play. That was the Explorers' last ball and made a layup before a scrappy LaSalle quintet lead of the afternoon. however. LaSalle coach Paul WPstheadSaturday afternoon at tho:! ACC but, called timeout.
Two free throws by Brokaw six
led by .John Shumate and Gary Brokaw. who combined for 47 Wl'sthead's temporarily
seconds later put the Irish back on advice points. the Irish topped the Ex­top and touched off a run of 16 n•juvenated the Explorers, who plorers. H7-71, before 9,330. consecutive Notre Dame points. popped in six points in a row to Shumate dropped in three baskets make the score 53-42 with 14z: 18
lkspite scoring sprees of 16 and the other four starters, lPft to play. Shumate and Novakstraight points, midway through Brokaw. Clay, Crotty and "Goose" th!'n shut them off with basketsthe first half. and 11 in a row early Novak. chipped in one apiece as and Notre Dame's lead stayedin the second half, the Irish Notre Dame streaked to 30-15lead. around the 15-point mark forcouldn't shake off LaSalle. The almost the rest of the way.

t·:xplorcrs took advantage of some Substitute Kevin NcBain sank a poor Notn• Dame shooting and 25 free throw to stop the Irish tear at With a minute and a half to go, Irish turnovers to fight back from fi::W. but. little over a minute later, LaSalle battled back to within 10 
a IIi-point first half deficit to with Crotty tossed in a layup to give points. !l\-71, but Brokaw made a 
six just before the session ended. Notre Dame its biggest lead, 32-16, driving layup and a couple of free Thl'n. after Notre Dame had and it looked like the Irish were throws and Clay stole the ball and opPned up a 17-point bulge in the going to make it a runaway. scored to wrap things up for the Sl'lmd half. LaSalle closed to within Irish.
Suddenly. the Explorers turned Ill in the waning minutes before a things around. A fall-away jumper Shumate had 24 points to lead the I ina! Irish surge wrapped up Notre hv Taylor broke an 8:36 LaSalle Notre Dame attack and Brokawl>aml•'s fifth straight triumph and lit•ld goal drought and, while Note was right behind him. netting 23.
it~ Hllh in the last !3 games. 

Dame suffered through a streak of Clay. 15 points, and Novak, 14, were 
"You've got to credit LaSalle," cold shooting. the Explorers also in double figures.
Irish coach "Digger" Phelps said. outscored the Irish, 12-2. Taylor "They never quit. They're what I scored 10 of those points as LaSalle 
Taylor paced LaSalle and took call a garbage point team--one that cut Notre Dame's lead to 34-28 with 
gam<' scoring honors with 26 takl's advantage of every op­I:.JI left in the half. 
points. Crawford and Joe DiCocco, portunity." 
who both fouled out with a littleOnly a couple of free throws by o\'er eight minutes to go, added 11
"LaSalll' likes to scrap and go Brokaw interrupted LaSalle's each. Crawford had entered the
after the hall and, if the officials let point run and it was the soph game as LaSalle's leading scorer,tlwm get away with it, it'll work," guard's 10-foot jumper with 58 with a 19.9 ppg average.
!'helps continued. "But I'm glad seconds to play that gave Note WP played a team like that because Dame its first basket in over four The win enabled the Irish to \n'rP going to see the same thing minutes and made the score 36-28. dose out an unblemished four­Thursday night against For­game home stand with an 11-9 dham." LaSalle held a slight edge at the record. Notre Dame will be on the 
"Although we played sloppy ball outset of the second half and closed road for the next two weeks, at timl's. I'm pleased with the to .t2-:J(i after the first two minutes playing Phelps' old Fordham club kids." Phelps said. "This was a hut Notre Dame got hot in a hurry. in Madison Square Garden win Wl' had to have." While their pressing defense Thursday and taking on Duke 
With victories over cage powers forced the Explorers into several Saturday. Next Thursday, the Irish Duquesne. Southern Cal and ~urnovers. the Irish tallied 11 will be at WPst Virginia and, two Niagara included in its 13-7 record, straight points and grabbed a 53-36 days later. they'll take on LaSalle figured to give the Irish a advantage. nationally-ranked St. John's. 
•

Five-goal final period gives ND 1cers sweep 
by Vic Dorr second goal at 11:15 to make it 2-0, "Notre Dame moves the puck 
CC. John Noble punched in ND's very well," observed Tiger coachThe Fighting Irish hockey team first tally 44 seconds later. John Jeff Sauer, "but I still don't thinkswept a two-game, four-point Prettyman scored for Colorado at they're playing as well as theyseries with the Tigers of Colorado 16:49 and Regan for the Irish at should with the talent they have."
College this past weekend, and the 19:05, and the Tigers ended the Despite the two victories--NO'sND icers did it by following a 

first period in possession of a 3-2 third and fourth of the seasonFriday night runaway with a 



OBSERVER
lead. against Colorado College--the Irish Saturday night rally. 
are still fifth in the WCHA stan-
The Irish breezed past the Ian Williams' first goal of the dings. Notre Dame has 34 leagueTigers. !l-3, in the first game of the game--at 1:04 of the second period-points. and u.e first-place team,weekend set. but had to come from -knotted the score at three, but Denver, has 40. Wisconsin (37), 

SPORTS
three goals down in the third then CC went on a rampage, Michigan Tech (36), and Michiganperiod in order to post an 8-6 scoring three unanswered goals State \35) points) are the firstdecision in the second game, the during the remainder of the second division clubs ahead of the Irish.
last of the season between the two period. Prettyman scored at 2:04, · 
teams. 
<:uy Hildebrand at 14:46, and Egan
Colorado College led from the at 19:06 to give the Tigers their 6-3 
outset in Saturday night's contest, spread going into the final frame. 
and took a li-3 lead into the final pPriod of play. But a major line 
The Irish weren't faced with any major· comeback heroics in
change by ND coach "Lefty" Friday's match-up. They had to
Smith ([an Williams was moved come from one goal behind mid­into the right wing slot on the way through the first period--whenNoble-Bumhacco linel triggered a Harry Allen scored from the slot atfive-goal scoring spurt that sent 9:50-:but the ND squad did thatthe Irish to their 11th WCHA win in quickly. Ray DeLorenzi tied thetheir last 13 games. 
game on a three-on-one break at
Williams made Smith's move 
11:24, and John Noble scored thepay off almost immediately, when first of his three goals six minutes
he rammt>d in a goal-mouth shot later. knocking 1a rebound pastjust 50 seconds into the third period Tiger goaltender Eddie Mio. 

to slice CC's lead to two, 6-4. Ric Schafer narrowed the spread to The Irish never trailed after one at the 9:00 mark, when he beat Noble's score. Regan opened the Tiger goalie Dan Griffin after second period scoring by stuffing taking a pass from left-winger in a goal at 12:433, and Williams l\like Dunphy. made it 4-1. ND, when he flipped in 
a wrist shot at 15:03. CC's Steve
Hay DeLorenzi's short-range 

score tied it at 14:54, and Dunphy Sertich (18:03) and Notre Dame's tallied the eventual game-winner Noble \~8:34) traded scores before 
I 
• just moments later 05:21) on an . the perwd ended. assist from Pat Conroy. Paul Noble completed his hat trick at 
f 
Hegan stuffed in an insurance goal I:03 of the final period, when he at lfi:05 to lock it up for ND. rebounded Eddie Bumbacco's
I 
I Colorado College had an op-shot. Mike Bertsch cut the Irish .. • port unity to stage a comeback of margin to four at 2:16 on a hard their own during the final minute shot that caromed over of play--when penalties to Bill Kronholm's shoulder, but his was N~Top and Pat Novitzki left the to be the final Colorado College Irish two men short--but the Tigers goal. Ian Williams and Ray were unable to mount any sort of Dl'Lorenzi closed the scoring. threat. Williams tallied his second goal of 
Coach .Jeff Sauer's club did play the night .at 5:08, and DeLorenzi 
threatening hockey during the first notl'h(•d his second at 10:08. two p!'riods of Saturday's game. "Ll'fty" Smith, the Irish coach, !\like Egan heat ND goalie Mark labelled Friday's victory Kronholm at 7:09 of the first period "sonwthing less than an artistic to gi\'e the Tigers an early lead, success." and his CC counterpart and (;ordie Sutherland added a agreed. 


Mike Dunphy knocked in the game-winning goal Saturday night at Colorado College as the Irish rallied from a 6-3 deficit to win, 8-6, and sweep their four-point series with the Tigers. 


