
On The Inside 
Dugan speaks about unions ... page 2 Coffee shop renovation 
... page 6 



. serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VIII, No. 56 Wednesday, December 5, 197~ 
Opens sales Tuesday 
'Bama allots 5,000 student tix 
by Art Ferranti Executive Editor 
The University of Alabama opened their ticket office yesterday morning to begin the sale of 5000 student tickets to the Sugar Bowl. 
The 5000 tickets were set aside by the Alabama ticket manager to be sold only to students. The remainin~ 8 483 tickets were designated for faculty and alumm. 
'Alabama has a student population of 14,500 and with 5 000 tickets for students, one in every three Crimson Tide students has access to a ticket. 
'rhat figure compares with the 1000 tickets set aside for ND students which made tickets available for approximately one in every eight Notre Dame students. 
Each school is responsible for its own method of 
allocating tickets. The ticket manager at Alabama 
explained that 2000 tickets are for the faculty and the 
other 6,483 tickets go to alumni. 
He stated that students there have been waiting in 
line for two days with a first-come, first-serve policy in 
effect. There is no priority for sales according to class. 
Faculty likewise have had to wait in line for their 
tickets and the manager stated thatAiabama'steachers 
waited for four hours Monday in a rain storm to buy 
their seats. 

The NCAA has set up minimum guidelines for the 
ticket distribution in Bowl games. Tickets for one­
third the capacity of the stadium must be set aside for 
the competing schools. 

The capacity of the Sugar Bowl is 86,000, so both 
schools received 13,000+ tickets in the allocation. 
Tickets sales for the bowl began on Jan. 1. The Midwinter Sports Association,which is in charge of the bowl, encourages early sale of tickets according to the Alabama ticket manager because it is never certain until November who is going to play in the game. 
He claimed that he had seen in past years, super­markets giving away Sugar Bowl tickets "like green stamps." 
However, this year's bowl was officially sold out on Nov. 15. 
The Notre Dame allocation of tickets centers on the Southern endzone of the stadium while 'Bama rooters will find their seats in the Northern end zone. 

All of Notre Dame student tickets were sold in less than four hours Monday when a huge crowd descended on the ACC. 
The ND faculty and alumni lottery for tickets will take place this Friday if the lottery is necessary. Don Bouffard, ND Ticket Manager, has explained that if requests for more than 12,483 tickets come, the lottery will be necessary. Otherwise, all the ticket ap­plications will be filled. 
The entire allocation system used this year is identical to the system used in all of Notre Dame's recent bowl appearances. Bouffard designed the system before Notre Dame•s-first Cotton Bowl trip. 

Expect price increases, rationing of gas 
WASHINGTON <UPI)­or jobs." rationing system will "quite cents--and give car owners ration import it into the United States. President Nixon Tuesday created He said measures being con­likely" be submitted to Congress coupons to pay the tax on the first 
-Christmas or no, the govern­a new federal energy agency sidered to deal with both short and for enactment by Christmas. 10 gallons a week. After the first 10 ment is cutting back by 1.7 millionwhose chief immediately forecast long term shortages because of the "Before Christmas?" asked AI gallons, consumers would have to gallons--about 11 per cent-thehigher prices and perhaps cutoff of Mideast oil included: Ullman, acting chairman of the pay the. tax which could hike amount of diesel fuel requested by rationing of gasoline and home House Ways and Means Com­gasoline costs to more than $1.00 a 
heating oil. mittee. gallon. · the U.S. Postal Service to deliver
-A combination of gasoline price Yuletide mail.
Nixon named deputy Treasury increases, taxes and rationing to "That is right," said John Hill, In other energy developmentsSecretary William E. Simon to reduce gasoline consumption. an official of the Office of Tuesday: -Ford Motor Co. in Detroit idled head the Federal Energy Agency -Price increases or taxes on Management and Budget (OMB). -Simon said that as demand for another 22,033 hourly workers.
<FEA) which will coordinate all national gas and electricity to Treasury Department and OMB petroleum products increased in The "big three" automakers nowenergy activities of the govern­reduce residential and commercial officials said one of several plans the United States, U.S. refining have given notice of layoffs,ment. The new agency is subject energy use. under consideration would boost capacity was actually decreasing mostly before Christmas, to moreto congressional approval. -Pressing 26 utility plants the federal gasoline tax to between because oil companies find it more than 200,000 workmers.
Sin1on in1n1ediately told which can do so to switch from oil 30 to 50 cents a gallon--it is now 4 profitable to drill oil abroad and newsmen that Americans can to coal. expect significant price increases -Increasing oil well productions and perhaps rationing of gasoline under state control. 

SMC Student Assembly asks
and home heating oil. In announcing he would per­He Look over as the ad­sonally take over the chair of the 

Iministration's energy l)oss from Energy Emergency Action Group,
John A. Love who resigned Nixon said: 

for 1nore lighting on campusMonday "for reasons of his "As these steps are being taken, own."Love's supporters said the I want to emphasize once again by Jack D'Aurora Collins requested funds for the for credit. The proposal was tabled former Colorado governor quit in a that the work of the government Staff Reporter junior class-sponsored Christmass pending further information. power struggle with the ad­agencies involved in meeting the banquet in other action at the The assembly also moved that ministration, particularly over his energy crisis cannot be fully meeting. The assembly granted for the coming semester, juniorsinsistence on immediate gasoline successful without the total Last night St. Mary's Student be allowed to keep their cars on
the sponsors $95 for decorations
rationing. Nixon, in his only commitment of every American Assembly passed a motion to bring and in addition passed a motion campus. This privilege is a result reference to Love Tuesday, citizen to see our nation through a proposal for increased lighting whereby it would accept the bill for of a temporary policy initiated last praised him highly for his work as Ihis situation." before the Student Affairs Com­May which was to be reviewed at
the dinners for off-campus and day 
'an invaluable and lasting con­Cost of Living Council director mittee. students. the end of this semester. 
tribution to this nation's efforts to John T. Dunlop said all oil If the proposal is accepted and Gail Pocus submitted a proposal Consideration is begin given to meet a challenge of formidable regulations now administered by enacted, lighting would be in­which would entitle those in the purchase or renting of a car for dimensions." the Council will be shiften to creased in four places at St. the assembly's use in conjunction
student government to academic
Simon said rationing, for which Simon's new agency over the next Mary's: the diagonal between the with the health service.
credit for their work. The creditLove fought to the end, could be on library and the science building,
"several weeks." The coffee shop revovation,
could be graded or ungraded, and
the way. These rules include price the street in front of LeMans Hall, costing $10,000, was brought up at
would range from one to four
He said the days of abundant ceilings on deomestically­the south corner of Regina Hall the end of the meeting. St. Mary's
credits depending on a student's
cheap supplies of energy are en­produced crude oil, profit margin and the gazebo in front of Regina. President Dr. Edward Henry said
position.

ded. limitations on larger firms, posting "We've been having a lot of that the administration might be "We have been accustomed to an of ceiling prices and octane problems with security," stated "It is a policy that no program able to contribute $5,000, in which overabundance of cheap energy," railings by gasoline retailers, and Assembly Chairman Barb gets credit unless sponsored by a a case the assembly would have to he said. "That day has ended. We 
a once-a-month pass-through to McKiernan, referring to the recent department," noted McKiernan, If donate the other half. The question 
must change our lifestyles and be consumers of increased costs by accosting of one student and hit­no department would sponsor the was raised, however, that this more thoughtful. Simply put, this all petroleum marketeers. and-run accident involving program, it was mentioned that 
would consiitute students payingcountry now faces the choice Administration spokesman said another. the students might approach their for construction in addition to what between comfort and convenience, the combination gasoline tax and Junior · Class President Carol respective department chairman they pay in tuition. 
l. the observer Wednesday, December s, 1973 
warld briefs 

WASHINGTON <UPI)-President Nixon Tuesday created a new federal energy agency whose chief immediately forecast higher prices and perhaps rationing of gasoline and home heating oil. 
Nixon named deputy Treasury Secretary William E. Simon to head the Federal Energy Agency, which will coordinate all energy activities of the government. The new agency is subject to congressional approval. 
Simon immediately told newsmen that Americans can expect significant price increases and perhaps rationing of gasoline and home heating oil. 
He took over as the administration's energy boss from John A. Love who resigned Monday "for reasons of his own." Love's supporters said the former Colorado governor quit in a power struggle with the administration, particularly over his insistence on immediate gasoline rationing. 
WASHINGTON <UPI)-Congress will be asked to enact before Christmas a plan to cut gasoline consumption--"quite likely" a combination gas tax and rationing system--administration spokesmen said Tuesday. 
While stressing that no final decision has been reached, spokesmen for the Treasury Department and the Office of Management and Budget said one of several plans under con­sideration would jack up the federal gasoline tax between 30 to 50 cents per gallon--it is now 4 cents--and give car owners ration coupons to pay the tax on the first 10 gallons a week. 
"It is quite likely that what we recommend will have the features of both a tax and a rationing program," said William A. Johnson, energy adviser to the deputy secretary of the Treasury. 
NEW YORK <UPI>-Hundreds of tractor-trailer drivers blocked 
highways in at least five states Tuesday, charging lower speed 
limits and higher fuel prices are costing them money. More 
demonstrations were expected. 
The American Trucking Association said the protests were being 
staged by non-union independent drivers, who own their own 
trucks. 
SAIGON (UPI)-Communist forces supported by tanks Tuesday staged·their first attack on a government-held population center since the January cease-fire agreement and then moved toward the provincial capital of Gia Nghia. 
The infantry-armor attack on the district capital of Kien Due, in the southern Central Highlands 110 miles north of Saigon, was accompanied by assaults against a string of South Vietnamese jungle bases, and the military command said. 
Ill\ campus laday 

1~ 15 and 2: 20--film "Kenya; multi-racial democracy" audio-visual center, cce 
2-5, 7-9 p.m.--art exhibit, kathleen bodner, fran Ierner and i.u. potters, moreau gallery, free 
2:30 p.m.--seminar, "thermodynamic forces" room 5, engineering bldg. 
3:30 lecture, "heuristic model for calibration resource utilization" room 303, engineering bldg. 
7 p.m.--film, "peter the first" engineering aud. 
8 p.m.--perspective series, "logic and metaphysics" by stephen korner, aud, galvin life science 
8 p.m.--basketball, penn h.s. vs. mishawaka h.s. ace 
8 p.m.--concert, the juillard string quartet o'laughlin aud. $3.50 adults, $2.00 students 
8:30 p.m.--drama, "thieves carnival" nd-smc theater, washington hall, $1.50 
!----=~------------------------~
Price 
Shattering


Sale 

~·/.8 Value Now Only 
~z_,, 
... . 


:~~A· 

-.:;.,fi,ll.,t"Y~ 

"'-;-:-A 
YMEMQREXRecording Tape
~~production so true it can shatter glass. 
NOW AVAILABlE AT 
HE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOK STORE 
• • • • • ~ c .. ... • ~ ( •. (, ... • • <\ •• 4. 'I "" • ' ~-1 ... " ' 'I 'I 

Dugan sees little· futUre· fo-r faculty union at Notre Da~ne 
by Denise Crowley Staff Reporter 
Professor Dennis Dugan, president of the Notre Dame Chapter of the American Association of University Professors <AAUP) and chairman of the Economics Department, sees no future for faculty unions or collective bargaining at Notre Dame. 
Dugan, in a discussion of the AAUP, said that he "can't see enough support for a faculty union on campus." There are many advantages and disadvantages of collective bargaining but the "AAUP here has no position." One advantage is that "it would give the faculty direct representatives to sit down and discuss with the administration issues specific to the university and work relations of administration and faculty." 
In order to set up a faculty union, 30 per cent of the faculty must petition the National Labor Relations Board. The board would then set up an election for the faculty to choose their represen­tative body, whatever what is. "I don't see any way that our faculty would get enough signatures to warrant an election," stressed Dugan. 

The faculty has grave concern for their economic status and the governance of the university. They are also concerned about their responsibilities and the nature of them, from teaching, to being available to students, and to participation in activities. Dugan says that the faculty has a lot of concerns but "until they become an overwhelming concern with a great number, it's not possible to pursue collective bargaining." 
The AAUP will also concentrate on what the new academic manual means for the faculty members that are here. It wants to know how to interpret it with the prin­ciples of governance. 
There are "unclear areas and questions not touched upon" in the manual, Dugan .claimed. For example, there is a greivance structure set up for students with greivances against their teachers but there is no procedure set up for faculty members. 
Another concern of the faculty is tenure quotas. There is a limitation now to the number of tenured members in a department. 
This affects the morale of the younger faculty, especially, but with these quotas valuable teachers are kept from becoming a permanent part of the community. 
Another aspect of the AAUP is Committee W, which is in­vestigating the status of women at ND. The committee wants equal treatment for faculty women on university committees and as full participants in campus life. 
The committee is working on getting more women faculty but they need the funds to go out and hire women. Dugan stated that "until a major effort is put forth by the university to hire full time faculty women, there will be few women in teaching positions." 
The economic status of the 

·faculty is a concern of the AAUP. The faculty salaries indicate how attractive the university will be to prospective teachers. A high quality faculty cannot be attracted by "economic peanuts" and be expected tostay,'said Dugan. 

(Photo by Chris Smith) 
The Observer is publiShed daily during the college semester except vacations by the stucrents of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S8 per semester l$14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 

:? BOAC 74'7 EUROPE! 
TALK TO THE SPECIALISTS IN YOUTH TRAVEL Low, Low Prices ANY Destination 


CALL CLARK 234-2098 


When we say we're YOUR store in style, price and terms, we mean it ... but you've got to see it to believe it. Stop by, look over our brand new collections of pants, sweaters, shirts, jackets, outercoats, suits, sportcoats, socks, haber­dashery, shoes and boots, etc., etc., check our prices, ask about our terms... seeing is believing! 
We're ready for Christmas giving, too, you'll find many great gifts. Seeing IS believing. 

• • • • .. • • ... ) • • • • .. .. • ..... " .... 'I' .. <I " ., ., v •' ~ ' ,. • >/ " ., " •' •. ~· '( " 'fl ,, of ~· ; •• ' : • ; • • • • • -.. ' • 

----~-~--~·------~ 

'. • • ' • . . :,•~ . f • ,", 

Wednesday. December 5, 1973 the ~observer 
Purdue president speaks on 
Dual systems of college 
Is there any truth to the rumor that the coming 2nd semester will be 
pushed back with a starting date around February 5 due to the energy crisis? According to the Provost, we use coal and are not at this time in any danger of running short of energy. As to the later starting date, there seems to be no chance of that occuring. In fact, the Provost has emphatically stated that classes will resume for the 2nd semester as scheduled. 
What's going on over there in the Library? There never seems to be a copier in working order lately when one needs to use one. 
We presume you are referring to the nickel operated copiers that are available in the Library. Well, it seems that all three have broken down at the same time and that it's taking abit of doing to find an effective repair service to handle the problem. The problem seems to center around the fact that the Minol~ta Machines in use have outlived their creators and that they reqmre service more and more due to a rising demand which such copiers are not designed to handle. Therefore, a combination of age and overuse seem to be at the crux of the problem. As to what's being done about repairs, they are underway and a new firm has been contracted to handle maintenance difficulties. Also, according to David Donovan, the Library intends to keep the Copying Center beyond the elevators on the 1st floor open until midnight Sunday thru Friday of Finals Week to ensure copier availability. 
Where can I get my suitcase zipper fixed? 
Your best bet is the Shoe Shop behind the Administration Building since that type of repair job requires a heavy duty stitcher. The phone number for the shop is 1144. 
Who do I see for information about Irish 8-Ball Trips? 
Jim Mattes in 606 Grace is the man in charge and he can be reached 
at 1680. 

Skylab searches lor hidden fuels 
HOUSTON WPI>-The Skylab 3 

astronauts hopefully solved their 
own energy crisis Tuesday and 
worked at helping their earth­
bound fellow men by looking for 
fuel sources hidden beneath the 

earth's surface. 
The space pilots employed a new 
scheme lo conserve their space 
sation's fuel and used less gas than 
predicted to roll the station over 
for another earth resources 
photography pass. 
The new technique allowed the 
pilots to conserve 18 per cent of the 
planned amount of useage of the 
stabilization gas. 
by Melissa A. Byrne Staff Reporter 
Dr. Arthur G. Hansen, president of Purdue University, at a press conference at St. Mary's College on Tuesday afternoon, addressed questions concerning higher education's dual system of private and public institutions. 
"We must maintain both public and private institutions," asserted Hansen. As a part of a public university system, Hansen in­dicated his concern is how to work effectively with private education. 
Hansen cited the tuition gap as one of many problems of the dual education system. Asked to comment on a panel of businessmen's proposed solution to raise state university tuition, Hansen stated, "I'm not convinced that is the answer to this problem.'' 
Speaking of Purdue, Hansen said, "Tuition rates are so high now that if they were raised many students wouldn't be able to afford an education." Hansen indicated a massive public loan program would then be necessary. 
Hansen is the keynote speaker at 
the Communications Workshop 
being held at St. Mary's College on 
December 4 and 5. This workshoop 
is sponsored by the Indiana 
Association of College Admissions 






Ytrtftont 
Tires 
GROUP PURCHASE AGREEMENT 
Now available at a special discount to all students and em­ployees of Notre Dame. We handle a complete line of 4 ply, Belted, Radial, and Import car tires; at your special price. Also, our Philco appliance and Electronic Department will extend the discount. Please bring your I.D. card for iden­tification. 
OFFER GOOD ONLY AT OUR DOWNTOWN STORE 
502 S. Michigan South Bend, Indiana 
Counselors and the Indiana College 
Public Relations Association. 
Hansen's Tuesday morning 
address, "Commmunication and 
Your Public Image," established 
the purpose of the two-day 
meeting. The workshop is being 
held to explore ways in which 
public relations and admissions 
can work together to provide more 
effective communications with 
prospective students. 
At· the press conference on Tuesday afternoon Hansen in­dicated levelling-off tendency of enrollment has not greatly affect Purdue University. "Our enrollment increase is 400 this year. We also lead public universities in percentage increase for this past year," said Hansen. 
"We are able to accomodate the 
student increase, but we are ap­
proaching the University's 
physical limit," Hansen remarked. 
He views this as a good problem, which indicates Purdue is "a fine university and has a faculty that altracll'l students." 

Hansen is the eighth president of Purdue University, the first alumni to serve• in this capacity. He has held that position since 1971, after serving as president of Georgia Institute of Technology. 
Deeb to visit SMC 
Dr. Rita Cassidy has announced that a guest speaker, Professor Marius Deeb, from Lebanon, will be visiting St. Mary's next semester. 
Prof. Deeb is the 1973 exchange scholar for the Indiana Consortium for International Education. He shall be leduring on the Middle East culture and history. 
Pilpel lectUre rescheduled 

The lecture to be given by At­torney Harriet Pilpel, scheduled for 8:00p.m. Tuesday, was post­poned. Mrs. Pilpel was unable to obtain transportation to Notre Dame. The lecture will be rescheduled for a later date. 
THERE ARE DIFFERENT WAYS TO: 
find peace, be of service, live out the Gospel, change the world. 
One of them is by helping to form brotherhood among all men and women as a Holy Cross Brother. 
For an opportunity to share your dreams and see how they I ine up with the vision of these men, see 
Brother Robert Fillmore Wednesday, December 5th, between 10:00-4:30 Placement Office, Room 222 
STUDENT UNION INVITES YOU TO ACAPULCO 8 DAYS, 7 NITES MARCH 11 18 DIRECT FROM CHICAGO VIA AMERICAN AIRLINES $245 includes -Round trip jet transportation -Meals served in flight each way -Transfers & baggage handling -Preregistration of rooms -Half day yacht cruise on Acapulco Bay {with open bar) --7 nites lodging at beachfront hotel -All taxes and service charges. RESERVATIONS NOW BEING TAKEN AT S.U. TICKET OFFICE. $30 DEPOSIT (CHECKS ONLY) PAYABLE TO S.U. SPRING TRIP. DEPOSITS DUE BY DEC. 14 for further information call 77 89.  

the observer 



P.O. 
Juggler Box 
Editor: 
With regard to the letter which asked for a drop-off box for manuscripts submitted to The Juggler: if it is not convenient to send manuscripts through the mail, please put them underneath the door at the scholastic Office on the fourth floor of Lafortune. If you would like the Manuscript returned, please enclose a self­addressed stamped envelope. 
The dead-line for submissions for the first issure of the Juggler is already past, bqt manuscripts for the next issue are welcome. 
Thankyou, 
The Editors 
The George 
Vision Editor: 
I am writing this as a reply to Dominic Bianco's letter, "Forget 01' George," which was printed in­the Nov. 15 issue of The Observer. Mr. Bianco seems to ask the question "Why should we listen to George McGovern when he recommends impeachment of Richard Nixon?" Whether Mr. Bianco realizes it or not, George McGovern is one of the most respected members in the Senate today. And he certainly has more support than Nixon has today; or at least more confidence from the American people. He has been a fighter for human rights, anti-war movements, tax reform, drug abuse programs, health care and environmental protection (to mention a few) long before they were popular or "the thing to do." If there is any doubt to this I need only direct Mr. Bianco to check the records. George McGovern lost the election not because of his muddled thinking and inability to think for himself, as Ol' Dominic suggests, but because of the American peoples' muddled thinking, inability to listen to anything objectively, and inability to think for themselves. Millions of people in America, who have bothered to look for the truth, deeply believe in George McGovern and see him, and men like him, as the only hope left for our misguided and confused nation. 
Andy Praschak 235 Dillion Hall 
Come on, 
Trustees Editor: 
Congratulations are certianly due to Dr. Charles E. Rice and The Observer staff for presenting the excellent article on civil rights Wednesday, Oct{)ber 31, 1973. Dr. Rice was requesting that the Board of Trustees take a position com­mitting the University of Notre Dame on the clear, public issue of abortion. 
This University knows that it has always been looked up to by the entire nation, Catholic and non­Catholic alike. I remember my grandparents telling me that Catholics all across the nation would listen to the Notre Dame football games on the radio because everyone admired the reputation of Notre Dame and felt that it represented them. I do not think that N.D. enjoys such a sincere loyalty now~ Yet Notre 
Wednesdav. December 5, 1973 
Dame is a fine repr~esei:ltative of an excellent academic community complemented by a nationally regarded athletic department ­both of which possess a prestige increasing day by day. Wouldn't it be nice if this University would rise to the occasion and lead the proponents of life in a firm position to protect life? This is not beneath the dignity of Notre Dame. 
Dr. Rice left us with quite a few thought-provoking points: the number of babies killed last year, (that numner is drastically in­creasing) ; the unjustness of 
Auschllti!z and Buchenwald 
comparedto the deliberate killing of ba~bies now; the fact that this University has stood up for minorities before; and that essentially, what we have now is abortion-on-demand at all stages of fetal development. Will the Professor's letter be read and then forgotten? Will the Board of Trustees even read it? What can the students do in this effort? 
A lot of people complain about abortion being strictly a Catholic issue. "Oh, don't the Catholics disagree with that?" Well, it's not just Catholic babies being sluaghtered. Come on Notre Dame, Board of Trustees, students ... stand up and speak for the child whohas no voice to speak for himself. People need leader to follow. You wil be surprised a the multitude to follow your example. 
Keefe Montgomery 305 Stanford 
Military 
Americans Editor: 
In the Wednesday, November 28 issue of the Observer, Joseph Abell presented a point of view that is incorrect, socially destructive, 
alarmingly popular. He states that the Department of Defense is using fuel, previously allocated to civilians, in order to fill military needs. I don't doubt the truth of this, but the article goes on to confuse military convenience with military need. Abell implies that, while civilians face the possibility of cold homes this winter, service families will continue to enjoy 72 degree heat. This is absurdt If he had been raised in an army family of six children (as I have been), by a man who once supported us on a major's pay, he would realize that the Department of Defense does not go to any extremes to insure the comfort of military families. The DoD will certainly not heat the military homes while their civilian counterparts freeze. 

~ 
I contend that the extra amount 
of oil given to the military is being 
used for essential national security 
measures. Steps are are already 
being taken to cut down on un­
necessary fuel usage. Apparently, 
Mr. Abell can't comprehend the 
concern of each commander of a 
naval ship about the loss of one 
gallon of fresh water or oil in his 
propulsion plant. How can the fuel 
allotment to these ships be 
decreased when they are already 
operating at the highest level of 
effeciency possible under our level 
of technology? Or maybe he hasn't 
found out about the drastic 
decrease in the number of military 
flights. Although it has become 
quite popular to criticize all 
defense spending and the stability 
of defense fuel allocations, I feel 
this trend would come to a halt if, 
under some admittedly remote 
possibility, the United States was 
attacked. 
However, these points merely 
show a lack of open-mindedness in 
the article, "For Convenience's 
Sake". My real complaint is that 
the article differentiates between 
"American citizens"and "the 
military". When will Mr. Abell 
and the rest of the nation realize 
that military officers, enlisted 
men, and their families,are 
Americans first and members of 
the armed forces second? These 
people aren't blindly obediant 
robots--they are intelligent, 
thinking citizens who feel an 
obligation to serve thier country. 
Service men aren't Prussian stereotypes (as the media often imply). My father spent three years in Vietnam as an American adviser, as a battalion com­mander, and as a brigade com­mander. He didn't volunteer to go over there because he wanted to kill Commies and murder--he went because of his love for the people of South Vietnam. He has done more good for the Vietnamese (by · building hospitals and advising rural hamlets) than an entire mob of anti-war activists. And I'm glad to say he wasn't the exception among American servicemen. 
Its about time people started considering the military as a constructive element of society, not a segment to be opposed. 
Thank you Bill Quinn 
Culture at 
Editor:the Dome "It is unfortunate that Notre Dame does not have a program of comparable quality." Tom Broderick, Observer, Oct. 26, 1973. 
FOR GREAT BUYS TRY 

*MAC'S RECORD RACK* 
2925 Mishawaka Ave. next to River Park Theater 
* lp's *needles *special *record orders cleaning 
*tapes equipment H we don't have It, we 'II get It 
Just Arrived ! BeHe Mldler, Santana, Jim Croce 
It is indeed unfortunate that Notre Dame does not have a program for the cultured. Perhaps, Mr. Broderick, youdo not read the campus publications, such as the Observer or the Scholastic, or if you are broader in perspective, The South Bend Tribune. Perhaps you have never noticed themany posters which have appeared on campus. Since these methods have apparently not reached you yet, perhaps the N.D. Cultural Arts Commission (CAC) will have to attempt a telephone solicitation program. 
Yes, Thomas, Notre Dame does have a program of comparable quality. It is the Dance and Drama Series of the CAC; it is not new on the scene, having developed from the Performing Arts Series in 1971. This year, the Dance and Drama Series has already featured The National Players-the country's oldest and most respected touring repertory theater company--and will also present on Nov. 8 the National Theatre of the Deaf--the most successful of the innovative theatre groups to appear in the last ten years. 
The Bella Lewitzky Dance Company--a similarly successful modern dance group from the West Coast-led by Bella Lewitzky, a n1ajor choreographer and a great 
dancer, will appear December 1st. Marcel Marceau--the world's 

--------~--~----­
greatest pantomimist--and the American Character Series--one­man character interpretations of Mark Twain, Walt Whitman, Gertrude Stein, Ben Hecht, and an adaptation of Master Spoon River Anthology--are all scheduled for the second semester. 
It is indeed unfortunate that the Notre Dame community cannot support more of these events. There is no Performing Arts series underwritten by the University as is the case with St. Mary's College. Since the Dance and Drama Series is only one part of the Cultural Arts Commission, a limited budget must be observed, especially in relation with the other com­missions of the Student Union. 
However, the purpose of the CAC is to bring cultural events to the Notre Dame community at the lowest possible price--nine events available to purchasers of the patron cards for only $8.00-a purpOf£. we feel achieved, con­sidering both the quality and quantity of events, at a real saving. 
And it is indeed unfortunate that you have chosen to ignore such an important aspect of student life at 
N.D. We hope St. Mary's College can keep you culturally en­tertained all the time. Mike Kulczycki Tom McAndrews Co-chairmen, Dance and Drama Series 
Community 

ews 
and 

General Store 
• 
Water Beds 

• 
LEATHER GOODS 


·MAGAZINES 
·Newspapers 
·ClOTHING 
·Posters 
• S·track Tapes



·CANDLES 
• Jewelry·Cards 
•INCENSE 
•Rugs 
•Tapestry ·Bedspreads 
• PI PES 


·PAPERS 
·Lites 
•NOVELTIES ·BOOKS 



113 West MonroeSt 
ONE BLOCK WEST OF THE NEW POST OFFICE 

·0 -'-••H-l J Wednesday, December 5, 1973 the observer 
Final decision on building due January 17 
Fate of Hoynes Building to be settled soon 
by Ken Bradford director. of Trustees meeting during the School was under construction. However, nothing definite will be Staff Reporter "The fate of the Psychology weekend of October 26. "We haven't determined yet how decided until he has the op­Building is currently hung up with The Psychology Department still the buildings will be used or when 
portunity to tour the facility, Fr. 
The future occupants of the the renovation of the LaFortune occupies the Hoynes Building but the movement of the departments Schla ver said. Hoynes Psychology Building will Student Center," Dr. Ackerman is expected to move to the Wen-will take place," Dr. Ackerman 
Dr. Ackerman said, "In our 
be determined in the near future, said. ninger-Kirsch Biology Hall. The stated. 
plans to renovate LaFortune, we according to Dr. Robert Acker-The Psychology Building was old Biology Hall housed the Law "We had hoped that we could had considered placing the man, student affairs assistant slated for conversion at the Board School last year while the new Law start working on LaFortune at the 
publications together on the second floor since they tend tu overlap,"St Mary's senl·or in]·ured in car ~~;~~nin;adof ~~~ _r~;~~d~~t ~~~ The Psychology Building may be 
• Psychology Buildmg," Dr. used to house the ~tudent publications or it may be con­verted into a Student Service

·dent earJyMonday mo•nJ·ngA~~~n;r~~l~~~rv!?ih 
renovating

ac c l .& I LaFortune was that of having too Center, which would include, little space to work with, Dr. among other things, the Student by Terry Keeney reported seeing the woman spin off there was no foul play. Ackerman noted. Counseling Center and the Staff Reporter the side of the car and fall into the "Everybody thought this guy hit "The use of the Psychology Placement Bureau, Dr. Ackerman 
street after the car was gone. her with his car," Kovatch said. Building solves that problem; now suggested.
A St. Mary's senior was injured One eyewitness accompanied "It was just one of those freak we have to decide how to get "We would also like to get the early Monday morning near the her to the hospital while the other things when it looked like maximum use of both buildings," non-student run offices out of west entrance of LeMans Hall. The gave an account of the incident to something happened, but it really he stated. LaFortune," Dr. Ackerman added. senior was taken to St. Joseph St. Joseph County police. didn't." Student Activities Director Fr. The final decision on the future 
Hospital where she was treated for No charges have been brought David Schlaver stated, "We are of the Psychology Building will be 
possible back injury. She was agflinst the driver of the car. toying with the idea of moving all 1·eached by January 17, when the released yesterday morning in fair According to St. Mary's Security the student publications into the Board of Trustees meets again, he condition. Director Anthony Kovatch, the Now you know Psychology Building." said. 
Accounts of the cause of her student was not struck by a car. He The newspaper of Fl6Fida Stateinjury are contradictory. Two cited the security report which 
University is the Florida Flam­

Faculty union prospects dim 
(continued from page 2) 
At present, there is a high tur­nover rate and the small increases in salaries are outstripped by inflation. Dugan reported that 
N.D. had an excess of $340,000 in the last fiscal year so there are funds available. The university, being in the business of education, should have its highest priority in the well-being of its educators, said Dugan, and the AAUP hopes to improve that well-being. 

RESEARCH 
Thousands of Topics $2.75 per page Send for your up-to-date, 160-page, 
mail order catalog. Enclose $1.00 to cover postage (delivery time is 1 to 2 days). 
RESEARCH ASSISTANCE, INC. 11941 WILSHIRE BLVD., SUITE #2 LOS ANGELES, CALIF. 90025 (213) 477-8474 or 477-5493 Our research material is sold for research assistance only. 

Night Editor: AI Rutherford ·Assistant Night Editor: Tom 
Devine Day Editor: Terry Keeney Copy Editor: Greg Aiello Pictures: Jerome Phillips Typists: Connie Fourre, John 
Flanigan, Tom Modglin, Joe 
Abell Compugraphic: Joe Abell Night Controller: T.J. Clinton 
Buy one­Gi~~~-111 
GET ONE FREE! 
r;;; . ... . 
.



Get one 

"'·--···--..,..,~...



Free! 
MEMOREX 90 
fl J!JI U I

Chromium dioxide 
A 19. J9 V19l. (/ E Ft:~A!. 
~==':.!':;:....·--= 


-~ -~·~~~~: 13 95J
·~­
~-.~-~..t: • 
~1f~,;~.:¥ . 
y MEMQREX RecordingTape~eproduction so true it can shatter glass. 
NOW AVAILABLE AT 
THE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 


NOTICE 
The Dec. 7 issue of The Observer will be the last of the semester. 
The advertising deadline for this issue has been moved up to 5:00 p.m. Dec. 5 

MISSED OUT? 
The requirement for graduation from Notre Dame is one year of ~E or ROT~. Now that many of you have sampled the physi.cal ed~caf!on program you might consider Army ROTC this commg semester. You can catch up with your conten:'poraries already in ROTC and do not have any commttment to further military service during the next year and one half. Look the program over. MS I classes are scheduled for 09TT. If you desire further information stop by the Army ROTC offices on the Notre Dame campus ;r call 
Capta;o wo;moc at 283-62~ ROTC liJ: 

~---------------------~-----------------­
~-------~ 

'n··.:6:.........,..............-'t.;.;h~.~e___::o....;b:.;..s:.;..e_r_v_e_r_ ___:Wed~~sday, December s, 1973 
Coffeeshop renovation proposed 

byJudy Rauenhorst Staff Reporter 
A proposal to revamp St. Mary's Coffee Shop has been submitted to I'r. Edward L. Henry by Father Roger Cormier, special coffee house advisor and Kathy Carrigan, student coordinator. 
The proposed changes include wall to wall carpeting, lounge furniture, booths, rooms with smi­dividers and planters, and new interior design. "We feel that these renovations would improve the atmosphere and encourage more socializing. This would in­c \ude group luncheons, birthday parties and a place to study," Pxr'ained Cormier. 
Dr. He.1ry set up an ad hoc 
committee to look into the 
possibility of renovating the coffee 
shop, appointing Cormier as 
chairperson and Corrigan student 
representative. "We spent six 
weeL researching the idea. This 
included a Saga sur-. ey of student, 
faculty and staff, and a survey of 
our own. The results indicate that 

70 per cent would use the coffee shop if it were renovated," Cor­mier said. 
The coffee shop began second semester last year. "The idea was suggested to Campus Ministry as a possible project. We did not feel that it should be associated with any department, but rather remain autonomous with a separate budget," said Cormier. 
Lisa Kinney, a sophomore in Rome, was appointed coordinator and set up the coffee house last year. "We saw the need for in informal social gathering place on campus as an alternative to concerts, parties or sitting in your room eating popcorn. The coffee house was tested and we definitely found a need for it. We discovered, too, that it draws Notre Dame students. They find they like to get off their own campus," stated Cormier. 
Each Friday night the coffee shop under the cafeteria becomes a coffee house with live en­tertainment. Cormier said that last year it was funded by Student Government, Saga and Campus Ministry. This year the college, Student Assembly and Saga provided the funds. "For the renovations we are requesting 
Kathy Carrigan is this year's SMC coffeehouse coordinator (Photo by Judy Rauenhorstl 

Various leaders na:med to Civil Rights Advisory Council 
Eleven leaders in civil rights law, education, and business have been named to the newly formed Advisory Council to the University of Notre Dame Center for Civil Rig}lts. Announcement of the coundl membership was made by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C, un,versity president. 
Advisory Council members include Father Hesburgh, Berl Bt-rnhard, former staff director of the U.S. Commission on Civil R!ghts, and currently partner in law firms in Washington, D.C., and New York City; Marian Wright Edelman, director of the Children's Defense Fund of the Washington Research Project and former director of the NAACP L~gal Defense and Education Fund, Inc., Jackson, Miss., and Osc.ar Garcia-Rivera, professor of law at Hcfstra University and diredor of the Puerto Rican Legal Defense and Education Fund, Inc. 
Also, Earl G. Graves, publisher 
of Black Enterprise Magazine; M. 

Carl Holman, president of the National Urban Coalition and former deputy staff director of the 
U.S. Commission on Civil Rights; Dr. Kenneth Keniston, professor of psychiatry at the Yale School of Medicine· and director of the Carnegie Council on Children. Burke Marshall, deputy dean and professor law at the Yale Law School and former assistant at­torney general for the Department of Justice Civil Rights Division, and William F. May, chairman and chief executive officer of the American Can Company. 
Also, Grace Olivarez, director of the Institute for Social Research and Development and professor of law at the University of New Mexico; William Taylor, director of the Center for National Policy Review at the Catholic University Law School and former general counsel and staff director of the 
U.S. Commission on Civil Rights, and Harris Wofford, Jr., president of Bryn Mawr College and former counsel to Father Hesburgh on the 

The Observer 
Christmas Party 


Frolics 

For a II Observer People 
Dec. 7 8:OOpm 
Holy Cross Halfway House See editors or department heads for tickets and more information 
We want everyone there. 
U.S. Commission on Civil Rights. 
The group held its first meeting Thursday and Friday (Nov. 29 and 
30) on the Notre Dame campus. 
Howard Glickstein, former staff director of the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights is the director of the Notre Dame Center for Civil Rights. 

$10,000; $5,000 from the colleges both campuses that goes untapped. and $5,000 from the Student "I have a list of 35 performers Assembly, he added. whom I can call on at anytime, yet 
"We recently added a $900 sound we enjoy getting new talent as system which solved our well," said Corrigan. Anyone who acoustical problem, and lessens wishes to perform, should contact 
the competition between the l{athy at 5168. performers and talking," said Scheduled to appear at the coffee Cormier. Two Notre Dame house this Friday are: students, Tom Daly and Bill 9:3o-SMC Guitar Mass Choir Nichols, are the sound technicians. 10: 30-Chuck Beck and Jim 
Cormier said that there is an Ernzen. unbelievable wealth of talent on 11 :30-John Salversonr-------------· 12:30-Frank D'Anbra 
256~o r1J 1 
:;f:::::::::::::;:;:;:::::::::;:;::::::::::::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=f. .. 
\~\:Stationary 20% offt1 Cards 

@ w it h t h i s 0 d . :~~~ ~ WJ il m~ I!J2 :i:-:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:····················.....·.·.·.·.·.·················:·;·i;ii Bo0 k s ?lJ ~g;j-~~~~~~: ·-~i·~:·:::·;·······················-·········M·;;g azin e s 
town & countrv. ~ '"J·1i' ?'-;_, 2·340 miracle lane Art
1 
>hopping center ·'1!1!..,:;:.,:;\\;~.....L mishawaka, indiana 46544 suppI;e ~ 

Jim 
'63 

Chuck '65

1723 S. Bend Avenue 272-9800 
G*O IRISH 
BASH 'BAMA-! 
Take home a bottle of Fighting Irish Bourbon for Christmas. 
ONLY $5.70 

EAST ON EDISON-LEFT AT LINEBACKER 200yds. on left 
10 percent DISCOUNT ON CALL A DAY AHEAD CASES OF LIQUOR AND WINE TO ORDER KEGS 
Bud Drinkers, can you figure this out? 
Suppose Bud"' came in 24-oz. bottles that cost 50¢ apiece. And suppose the 12-oz. bottles cost 25¢ each. A guy comes up to you carrying two boxes the same size. He tells you one box is full of 12-oz. bottles, the other is exactly half full of the 24-oz. bottles. One is worth more than the other. Which one? 

"UllJ atp JI"el{ SS!W U,llOA .IQ ·xoq llllJ aqt )[::>!d llOA a.IllS a}["eW '@.Ias!aM.pllff ~U!U!'elUO::> aZ!S aw-es aql saxoq OMl l{l!M no..\ 01 dn sawo::> .An~ "B aUI!l lXaN :l"B.IOW "09"1$ lSO::> PlllOM l! pu-e 'samoq ·zo-tc; aa.Iql .10 'sa::>uno (;L U!"BlUO::> p1noM xoq nnJ-JI"el{ aq.1·oo·e$ lSO::> PlllOM. pu-e 'samoq ·zo-c;r aA{aMl U!'elUO::> PlllOM xoq nnJ aql 'sa::>uno ttl sp{Ol{ xoq q::>-ea asoddns no..\ JI) ·q::>nw s-e OO!Ml su!-e+uo::> +! asn-e::>aq xoq IlllJ-JI"el{ aql U"el{l <l.IOW l{l.IOM. S! xoq IlllJ <ll{.1 ·a::>Ua.IalJ!P <l!ll!I S<l)["eW samoq aq+ JO lSO::> .10 az!s aql 'az!s aw-es aql .An::>-exa a.I-e saxoq q1oq a::>u!s =ll:i~M.SNV 
ANHEUSER-BUSCH, INC. • ST. LOUIS 


Hughes hands over cash 
By CLAY RICHARDS 
WASHINGTON <UPI) -An associate of Howard Hughes, exclaiming "here's the god­damned money," dramatically dumped $100,000 in cash on a table before startled members of the Senate Watergate Com­mittee Tuesday as they were seeking to trace the role of the funds in Prsident Nixon's re­election finances. 
Chester Davis, general coun­sel for the Summa Corp. owned by billionaire recluse Hughes, said as he spilled the the cash -in $100 bills --out of a brown attache case that it was the same money Nixon's close friend Charles G. "Bebe" Rebozo had returned to Hughes early this year after holding it for some three years. 
Committee Chairman Sar'n J. Ervin, D-N.C., said a few minutes later that it was almost certain Rebozo would be called before the panel for public testimony about the money. 
Davis said the money was the same ten packets of bills had Rebozo returned to him. 
The incident occurred while the committee was questioning Davis in private, but panel members reported later there was an immediate scramble to count the money, post guards and record the bills' serial numbers. 
Ervin said the bills were photocopied because it was possible some of their history could be traced through bank records of the bills' serial numbers. 
Another Hughes aide, Rich­ard Danner, has said he gave the money to Rebozo in 1969 or 1970 as a campaign contribution for Nixon. 
But still other Hughes associ­ates have said for the record that the $100,000 was intended for Nixon personally. 
Rebozo has said he was confused about the purpose of the money -which apparently was transferred well after Nixon's 1968 campaign and long before the 1972 campaign -and as a result put it in a safe deposit box in his Key Biscayne, Fla., bank. 
Rebozo has said he did not mention its existence to Nixon until earlier this year after he had returned it. He said he returned it because he feared it might prove an embarrassment to the President. Nixon subse­quently said Rebozo acted properly. The FBI was called on to examine the cash before it was returned. 
Davis' unexpected gesture was said to have occurred during he a ted discussion of whether the committee has the power to require testamony from him and other Hughes associates in open session. 

Blank tape unexplained 
by JANE DENISO!'Io 
WASHINGTON <UPI>-A White House lawyer testified Tuesday that presidential aides believe five minutes of one of President Nixon's key Watergate tapes were erased accidentally but can't explain why another 13 minutes also has vanished. 
The lawyer, Samuel J. Powers, said at a federal court hearing that both he and J. Fred Buzhardt, another White House attorney, were "surprised" to discover Nov. 14 that 18 minutes of a Watergate conversation Nixon had with forme1· chief aide H.R. Haldeman was obliterated from one of the President's subpoenaed tapes. 
Powers said that a "very upset" Rose Mary Woods, Nixon's per­sonal secretary, told them that day that she apparently had erased "four or five minutes" of the tape by mistake while trying to tran­scribe it six weeks before. 
"Did you reach any conclusion about the missing 13 minutes?" asked Jill Volner, an assistant special prosecutor. 
"Not 1·eally, not at that time," Powers replied. "How were you explaining the 13 minute erasure that you couldn't explain?" Mrs. Volner asked. 
"We couldn't explain it," said Powers. 
Powers, a veteran Miami trial lawyer hired by the White House Nov. 5 to handle court work on the tapes case, testified at the month­old hearing before U.S. District Judge John J. Sirica into whether any of the tapes may have been tampered with. 
Earlier, Haldeman's former deputy, Larry Rigby, testified he had learned about the 18-minute "gap" from Haldeman himself on 
Nov.  14  or  15-which  was  a  full  
week  before  the  White  House  
disclosed it publicly.  

The tape in question is of a Nixon-Haldeman meeting June 20, 1972, just three days after the bugging arrests at Democratic party headquarters. Haldeman's notes show Watergate was discussed--but that portion of the tape now is obliterated by a loud buzz and is not undergoing technical tests by experts in New York. 
Powers said Buzhardt told him, as they were listening to the tape Nov. 14, to expect a "three or four minute gap." But he said when they timed it it ran 18 minutes and 15 seconds. 
He said Miss Woods came in shortly thereafter and explained she "must have pushed the 'record' button" by mistake while transcribing the tape but insisted "she didn't believe it could have been that long." 
Testifying last week, Miss Woods said she had accidentally "caused a gap" of four or five minutes in the tape when distracted by a telephone call as she worked with it Oct. 1 but no longer than that. 
In official papers filed with the court, the White House said "it is believed" the entire 18-minute obliteration was caused by ac­cidental depression of the "record" button while the tape was near an electric typewriter and a high-intensity lamp .. 
Powers said Miss Woods was not questioned thoroughly and no thought was given to disclosing the "gap" to the court immediately because it was to be included in a detailed analysis when the tapes were surrendered to Sirica later. 

THE LONDON THEATRE SMC ENGLISH DEPT TOUR 
March 9-17, 1974, $424 from South Bend. 
$100 Deposit due Feb. 1, 1974. Ca II 284-4516 or 234-2098. 
Quiet Night Concert 
Monday, Dec. 1 0 Washington Hall 9:30 pm 
FREE 
Courtesy of Student Government 
Buy two­Get one Free! 
A f.9.S7 VALI.J(i Fo~ 



NOW AVAILABLE AT THE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOK STORE 
SMC  Student-Faculty ND-5MC Staff  
THEATRE  $J50  
SEASON 1973-74  

Thieves' Carnival 
Jean Anouilh's merry masquerade Dec. 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 at 8:30p.m. Washington Hall (Notre Dame) 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
PERSONALS 
Poor domer (Knute) selling all worldly possessions to finance 'rip to Sugar bowl. Experience 'he thrill of helping someone less fortune than yourself. See "F,lr Safe" section for details. 
Ex-Farleyites: Come to the Christmas Talent Show Friday 
a: 7:30 in the Farley Hall Chapel. Featuring Pop Farley and the Dem Poem singers. 
Turkey mating season begins 
in June-a F<lr No-Action Jackson and his Tuna. 
Cnngratulations and all the best. 
-Linnie-Pooh, the Jully Green Giant, 'he Minnie Guinnea, and 'he Wop Moocher. 
WANTED 
give a former Domer a break, He's -in Law Schoof , She's i grad school in ST. Louis, they need 2 Sugar tix. 4712. 8472. 
Need hockey shinguards + helmet. Call Joe 1416. 
Need secondhand or new kick potter's wheel. Calf 259-2382 or 271-7798. 
Need ride to Cleveland . Can leave Wed. Dec. 19. Call Greg 7865. 
Need Sugar Bowl tix. No Fair <lffers rejected . Calf 3157. 
Need 2 adjacent sugar bowl tix. $$ Ken 3797. 
Will return from North NJ on 7 Jan. Calf Leo 232-2721 for rides. 
Need riders from Evansville, Ind. area to Sugar Bowl. Call Janet 4163. 
FOR SALE 
BANKRUPTCY SALE: 1 pr. Koffch racer plastic ski boots. must self $35. Set of wilson clubs. with new bag. $70. Lund skis. resurfaced over summer. 
with northland toe and thunder heel bindings. $45. Call Knute 233-3945, 
Imported Mercury watches: 1­17 jewels, 3 styles, perpetual calendar, guareented. $13.50­$15. Call Frank 31li9. 
Selling out to get married. Best offer on Max reg. trig , red shag 9 X 12,. Chest of d• wers, chair, bookshelves. Ci. Mike 8183. 
Stereo turntable P track, speakers, reciever. Used 1 semester. 1067. 
10-speed bike for sl . Cheap. Asking $50. John t<549. 
for some of the best christmas gifts in town at the best prices in town come by pandora's 602 
n. st. louis from 10 to 7 everyday. 
FOR RENT 
4 BR house, recreation room, study, fireplace, wall to wall carpet, just rennovated, completely furnished. Jan semester or immediate oc­cupation. A Brasseur 289-2461. 
I BR apl. near N D. Furnished 1 nicely. Rate quite reasonable. Call after 6 Mrs. 
Kenelfy 233-4487. 
NOTICES 
Kill ugly radio: volunteers needed to 11elp bring pr::>gressive rock back to WRBR. come to pandora's 602 
n. st. Louis and sing up erganization meeting to be announced. peopf·e t o petilion , rap, put up posters, money too. 
California Club; check in at 'rabel agency to see if you were 
•1ne of H1e first 40 to sign up or it you desire your refund, as soon as possible. LA charter + SF group rate cancelled. LA group rate TWA still availble. 
LONDON SHOW TOUR: March 9-17 1974. $424 from SB­fnc!udes air, accomatiions, tix. 
$100 deposit due Feb 1. Calf Sister Jean Kiene 284-4516. 
Students from New Mexico and 'he Southsest; Let's help each other at home tor Xmas. It you have room in your car, orneed a rdie calf 7833 leave name + date you can leave. 
Morrissey Loan Fund can loan up to$150at 1percent interest, 1 day waiting period. 
BAsement of LaForune. 11: 15· 
12:15 Mon.;Fri. 
got books you doni want? come to pandora's from 2:30 -3:30 and we'll buy them pap· terbacks or textbooks. 602 n. st. louis. 
Have your bike winterizrd Will not rust, even if left out all winter. Call 272-8697. 
Rides from Indy or Louis ville 
to New Orleans for Sugar Bowl $50 . leave 12-28 return Jan 1. Calf (317) 257-0628. 
Rides from Chicago, Indy or Louisville to Sugar Bowl $50 leave Dec. 28 return Jan. 1. Call (317) 251-4402. 
Important meeting ot NO ski team racers Thurs. Dec. 6 7 pm Room 1-c LaFortune. 
The fellowship of the ring: Frodo Baggins of Bag end: 'he Ringbearer ; Grandulf :11e Grey. 
'OF MEN: Aragora, Dunadan 
<lf the Norht, Boromir, son of 
Dendthor, of Grandor. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost class ring '75 it. blue, stone, name Mike Deiner in· side. Reward No questions asked. 1470. 
Stolen: Men's bright orange 10 speed Alala racing bike with boora-:k. From west entrance O'Shag. Please calf Ann 1346. 
REWARD. 
Lost: camel coat in LeMans. Call 4050, 5373. Reward. 
Lost: class ring JLW '74. aqua 
stone. Reward. Call 7877. 

But B-B-Bea, B-B-Becky, B·B­Bridget, M-M-Mary, o.o.oar, Howdy! 
An early Happy 'Birthday to Joanne 
l 
... 


r-~-­
, 8 Wednesday, December 5, 1973 
L • ------------------------------------------------­
t •
Irish climb to third lD AP votin
~ 
poll, Notre Dame was unable to

~ The biggest week of Notre Cappelletti, who Coach Joe 
Dame's 1973 football season Paterno calls "the greatest player gain any ground. The Irish rem.ained fourth in the UPI voting, 
continued yesterday ,as coach Ara I've ever been around," gained 
behmd Alabama (35-G victors over

t Parseghian's I undefeated team­1,117 yards. 
Auburn), Oklahoma (45-18 winners

thefirst Irish squadsince 1949 to go The team honors came in the
• over Oklahoma State), and idle
through a regular season without a weekly Associated Press football 
Ohio State.

~ loss or a tie-gathered in several poll, which ranked the Irish indivvidr 11 and team honors. number three in the nation after 
AP Poll 

The individual honors came to Saturday's 44-o win over Miami of Parseghian himself, who was Florida. Only Alabama and I. Alabama 34 .. .. 11-H 1.090 named by The Football News as Oklahoma are rated ahead of ND 2. Oklahoma 16.. 10-6-1 1.023 
3. 1'\otre Dame 2 lll-H 810

college football's Coach of the in the AP survey, but the Sooners 
4. Ohio State 2. 9-6-1 799 Year, and to three of his players: are ineligible for a post-season 5. Mtchtgan I .. .19·6-1 780 defensive back Mike Townsend, bowl appearance and so, when the 
6. Penn State. 3 11-H 679 i. So. California 9-1-1 528

tight end Dave Casper, and Irish and the Crimson Tide meet in 8. Texas .. 8-2~ 
412 linebacker Greg Collins. the Sugar Bowl on New Year's 9. UCLA .. 9-2~ 312 10. Arizona Stale .11l-1~ 293
Townsend and Casper were both Eve, they will be playing for the 
11. Texas Tech 11l-1~ 255

named to the '73 Associated Press National Championship. 12. Nebraska . . .. . 8-2-1· 22'l 
All-American team. Townsend, a Rated behind Notre Dame in the 13. Louisiana Stale . 9-2~ 193 
14. Houston .. Ill-I~ 161

6-3, 178 pound senior, was a first­AP voting were Ohio State, 
15. Miamt. Ohio . 11).0-~ 85 team choice, while Casper, a 6-3, Michigan, Penn Slate, USC, Texas, 16. No. Carolina St. 8-3~ 56 
228-pound senior, was a second­UCLA, and Arizona State. 17. Tulane ... 9-2~ 44 
18. Maryland 8-3~ 30

team selection. But in the other rating survey, 
19. Kansas .. 7-3-1 27 Collins, a 6-3, 228-pound junior, the United Press International 20. Tennessee 8-3~ 16 was tabbed for honorable mention. ND's big tight end was one of four athletes named by the 
SW"i.m.mers host ND 
football Foundation and Hall of 
Fame as scholar athletes for 1973.

... The Irish team captain and All­relay; finish second
America light end was joined by Dave Blandino of Pitt, Randy Notre Dame's swimmers, fresh Owings Mills, Md., last season's Gradishar of Ohio State and Mark from a second-place finish in the MVP, taking firsts in the 50-and 
Markovich of Penn State. Notre Dame Invitational and an 100-yard freestyle events. Kane's Senior defensive back Mike Townsend was yesterday named to a Another Penn State running opening meet victory, hope to time of 22.1 tied the Rockne pool first team position on the AP All-American squad.
back,John Cappelletti, was named extend that streak this weekend at record set three years ago by Gene by the Downtown Athletic Club of home against Northern Illinois and Krathaus of Notre Dame. New York the 1973 Heismann the University of Western Ontario. In assessing the past weekend's 
Trophy winner. Cappelletti, who After capturing their own in­action, Coach Stark said, "our lack was a defensive back as a of depth caused us problems in the
vitational for two straight years,sophomore, gained 1,522 yards on the Irish tankers found last year's invitational. Drury has a very 
286 carries with 17 touchdowns this good, deep team. I was very happy 
lOth place finisher in the NAIA 
season. Last year, his first as a finals too tough, as Drury College wi lh the results in the 200 fly, since mnner for the Nittany Lions, of Springfield, Missouri, won seven it's not often that a varsity record 
OBSERVER 
will be broken so early in the taking top honors, with a total of of the nine possible first places, 
season.
Sailors finish 
"We have two tough meets111 points. The Irish, a solid 

SPORTS
second, won the other two relays, facing us this week against Nor­Autumn season the 220 free and 200 IM. 
thern Illinois and Western On­tario," noted Stark. "We're hoping 

In opening their dual meet 
for a strong effort from each of the 

season against the University of
This weekend thesailingclub held swimmers in these meets."
Waterloo, Notre Dame outlcassed
its annual Donohue Cup Regatta to In last year's Northern Illinois
its opponent in capturing nine first 
determine the top freshman-novice meet, the Huskies jumped off to a
places. In that meet, Coach Dennis 
skipper. The regatta began on sizeable lead early and a 73-50
Stark's swimmers set six meet
Friday night at a banquet with the victory. The '72 Western Ontario
records, lied a Rockne pool record, 
elections of new officers and the meet brought a sense of ac­
and set a new standard in the 200­
presentation of awards of Crew complishment to the Irish as they
yard butterfly. 
and Yachtsman of the Year. fought back, winning the final 400­
Saturday, after an entire day of Senior Ed Strack, <Colorado yard relay to win 59-54. racing, there was no doubt as to Springs, Colo.) broke the three­Saturday's win over Waterloo who the number one skipper was. year-old record held by Frank brought Stark closer to his goal of Buzz Reynolds sailed consistently, Fahey. Strack's time of 2:05.6, 100 career victories. His I4ish now chalked up eight firsts and two lowered the old mark by two-tenths have 93 career wins with 11 op­seconds, and won the coveted of a second. Others making im­portunities to earn the seven Donohue trophy. Runner-up was pressive starts in the 73-74 season victories necessary to achieve the Camille Doan. were senior Joe O'Connor century mark. 
The club's elections for 1974 held <Highland, Ind.), capturing firsts Friday's meet will begin at 4:00 on Friday night introduced the in the 200 and 500 freestyle; and p.m. and Saturday's at 2:00p.m. at following new officers: Jon Jim Kane, a sophomore from the Rockne pool. 
Makielski--Commodore, Bruce Marek-Race Team Captain, Dave Constants--Vice-Commodore, Buzz Reynolds and Bryan Ramsey-Co­re!lr-Commodores, Carole Froling--Treasurer, and Judy Robert--Secretary. 
Also receiving awards were Bruce Marek for Yachtsman of the year and AI Constants for Crew of the Year. 

' 

609 East Jefferson Mishawaka 

!
~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------_j 
Dolltletthe price ofa college education stop you. 
The price of a college education is skyrocket­ing. Fortunately the Air Force had done some­thing to catch up with it. For the first time, the 6500 Air Force ROTC Scholarships include the 2-year program, for both men and women. 
If you can qualify, the Air Force will pay for the remainder of your college education. Not only do ROTC 2-year college scholarships cover full tuition, but reimbursement for text­books, lab and incidental fees, as well as a tax­free monthly allowance of $100. 
To cash in on all this just apply, qualify, and enroll in the Air Force ROTC at _____ 
It's a great way to finish your college educa­tion in the money, and enjoy a future where the sky's no limit ... as an officer in the Air Force. 






