On The Inside 
Action Express makes its debut ... page 3 Little Big Screen looks at TV ... page 5 

Vol. VIII, No.3 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 

Shilts : new director of OC housing office 
by Tom Franco Staff Reporter 
James L_ Shilts, C.S.C, was recently ap­pointed to the newly created position of Director of Off Campus Residence. Shilts is a native of South Bend, astronomy professor at Notre Dame, and presently a member of the Metropolitan Drug Abuse Council. Notre Dame administrators have created this position to C<'"front the pressing problems of over 1500 off-campus students. 
Shilts feels tis major problem is making the advantages of a residential campus more available to off-campus students. Some of the "advantages" he listed were interaction with faculty, Christian min,~t~y, and cultural events. 
When questioned about off-{:ampus students being "second class students," Shilts said that it was a result of a communications-gap between a centralized campus and a highly dispersed off-{:ampus population. 
Another problem confronting Shilts is the outlandish rents imposed on students by South Bend landlords. Shilts said he was "absolutely sure rents are over extended. The landlords can ask for more money because of the panic arouses, by rumors of off-{:ampus housing shortages." 
Shilts will also be faced with racial 
discimination problems. A letter from 
William L. Montgomery, a black philosophy 
student, has made the University aware of 
problems presented to off-{:ampus minority 
students. Montgomery was rejected by three 
landlords whose names were supplied by the 
Off-Campus Student Housing office. Although 
Shilts' office has not yet acted on the problem 
Cassel Lawson, Director of Off-Campus 
Student Affairs, has shown som e concern. 
Speaking of what he thought attractive in 
living off-campus Shilts replied. "the freedom 
with a sense of responsibility,"emphasizing 
r-esponsibility. '"Buying food and doing one's 
laundry can be sort of fun," he continued, 
"but it also is a pain in the neck; it takes 
time." Shilts was emphatic in pointing out, 
"I don't intend to go looking for problems, but 
if guys are open for counselinh I am 
available." 
Food co-op's, legal aid, and South Bend 
orientation manuals are not being seriously 
considered at this time. The only "real" Fr. Shilts: trying to make advantages of off­campus housing more available. 


project being outlined by Shilts is a rating system for off-campus houses. This will be a price and renters guide for off-{:ampus students. In order to complete this guide Shilts needs a correct listing of off-{:ampus students. 
Shilts said that, "If a listing in the tem­porary directory is incorrect, students have until Wednesday to notify his office so they can be changed." Shilts uumbers are 8411 and 7732. 
Student Government, on the other hand, has been working on a limited off-{:ampus shuttle 
service. Dennis Etienne, Student Body 
President, expects a skeleton service to go 
into service soon_ If the shuttle is successful 
the program will be expanded_ "We can't risk 
starting out with a huge service, but we'll 
enlarge the system if it works," remarked 
Etienne. A date for the bussing to begin was 
not available, but Etienne promised it would 
be in the near future. 
More UFOs sighted across the Southeast 
by UPI 

Authorities Sunday checked out more reported sightings of unidentified flying objects in the Southeast, but quickly dispelled a fear that something from another world had fallen in a Georgia field. 
The Georgia State Patrol said a glowing green cylinder found near Manchester Saturday night, shortly after several persons said they saw UFO's buzzing the area, turned out to be only a commonly-used automobile trouble flare_ 
But reports continued to pour in, from police and civilians. Two military policemen said something dived at their car near Hunter Army Base south of Savannah and forced them off the road. A state patrol trooper based in Manchester said a UFO whisked past his car, going so fast there was "no way" he could get a close look. 
Police in five East Central 

Alabama cities reported 
sightings early Sunday. 
Officer Keith Broach of Auburn, Ala., said he saw something the size of an airplane, which ap­peared red and white, changed to green and then to white before flying away. 
A policeman at Lanett, Ala., said he saw an object about the size of a car, coming to withinl50 feet of the ground. 
There also were sightings reported by police in Carrville, Notasulga and Tuskegee, Ala. 
Military Policeman Bert Burns and Randy Shede said in Savannah that an airborne object dived toward their car as they were making a routine patrol near Hunter Air Base_ They said it hovered near the car and pursued them as they raced to headquar­ters. 
They said at first they saw "quick flashing lights, traveling at a high rate of speed from east to west, about 2,000 feet above ground level" and then dived on them, forcing them off the road, before disappearing into the darkness. 
A Georgia state police spokesman said a trooper assigned to the Manchester headquarters had seen a UFO hovering at tree­top level. 
"It went over the unit patrol car, and was going so fast there was no way he could even get close enough to identify it," he said. 
Monday, September 10, 1973 
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 


Scottsdale Mall opens: largest in Hoosierland 
by Ken Bradford Staff Reporter 
Scottsdale Mall, the largest totally enclosed shop­ping center in Indiana, held its grand opening ceremonies on August 1. Better then half of the one­hundred two stores, shops, and discount centers were completed at the time of the official opening and full occupation is expected with a year. 
Three major stores dominate nearly one-half of the 850,000 square feet of shopping space. The largest, Montgomery Ward's, survived an electrical fire on July 29 which inflicted smoke damge to the interior of the store to open August 1. The other two major stores, 
L. S. Ayres, and Ayr-Way, occupy key positions near two of the main entrances to the Mall. . Among the smaller stores are twenty clothing stores, mcluding stores specializing in ties, maternity outfits, and clothes for tall girls. Ten shoe stores as well as 1 several music, book, and gift shops are also scattered throughout the structure. Seven restaurants, including an old-fashioned ice cream parlor, and a "Coney 

1
Island" hot dog shop, are slated to be open when full 
1
occupation of the shopping center is reached. Nightly entertainment at the Scottsdale Mall will be 

1
provided in several of the restaurants, as well as the 
j
Scottsdale Mall Theater, an eight-hundred seat movie theater_ The theater is currently showing "Jesus j Christ Superstar." Daily entertainment may be found in a coin-operated amusement center. 
Space in Scottsdale is also provided for offices business meeting rooms, and a bank. The two story complex has a bountiful supply of restrooms, stair­ways, escalators, and elevators. The main floor of the mall provides comfortable seating in conversation pits and a picturesque fountain. 
The temperature of the mall is always a comfortable seventy degrees. A computer monitored heating and air conditioning system allows each shopkeeper to control the temperature in each individual store with the mere alteration of the thermostat. 
Area contractors helped with the building of Scott­sdale Mall. It was developed by hte Don M. Casto and Joseph Skilken organizations of Columbus Ohio developerof other centers throughout the state. Th~ estimated total cost of the structure is $40 million. Two thousand jobs are expected to be provided by the center, including jobs in sales maintenance and 
~curi~. ' ' Located on the far southeast side of South Berni Scotts?ale Mall can be reached from campus by followmg U.S. 31 south and turning east onto Ireland Road. A complete reworking of the Ireland Road­Miami ·Street intersection has lessened the burde of trafk. Parking is available in the spacious parking lots around the center_ For thirty cents, students can reach Scottsdale from the Circle by bus. 

11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
1 

the observer 
European ·tour termed 'exciting' 
by Diane Bennett Staff Reporter 
Dr. James McCray, director of the Notre Dame-st. Mary's music program, described the ND-SMC concert choir tour through Europe this summer as being a "very exciting musical experience." 
The group traveled by bus through Brussels, Belgium; 


The ND-SMC concert choir toured Europe this summer to perform and sight see.· 
warld 
briefs 
by United Press International . 
Scattered service stations across the country closed their pumps Sunday in protest against Phase IV price regulations which some dealers say could put them out of business. They complained t~at while they were forced to rollback their prices, the big oil compames were increasing their fees-and their profits. 
Washington-President Nixon appealed Sunday for swift congressional passage of his major legislative proposals, calling for extra sessions if necessary "to complete the people's business before 
the year ends." . . . . Nixon presented his case in a taped 10-mmute na~wnw1de radio broadcast previewing a bulky second State of the Umon address .he will send to the Democratic-controlled Congress Monday, urgmg action on 50 administration measures. 
Belfast-Police Sunday blamed the sadistic killing of a child, whose mutilated body was found inside a sack floating in the Lagan River, on a sex maniac whom they cast in the same as Jack the Ripper. Police said the body of the child was so badly mutilated that pathologists could not immediately determine the sex. 
Houston-The Sky lab 2 astronauts spent a busy "day off' Sunday keeping a watchful eye on the sun and taking pictures of earthwith their special space camera to help farmers in Mexico. 
Alan L. Bean, Owen K. Garriott and Jack R. Lousma treated their 
one day a week off just like another work day in the big orbiting 
spaceship, taking time only for showers and a weekly chat with ground 
based scientists about their research work. 
an campus taday 
art display, experimental photography, richard stevens, o'shag, art gallery 
7 pm-student government night, carroll hall, smc 
7:30 pm-lecture, "introduction lecture-st. mary's com­puter facility; how to use it," dr. peter smith, 224 madeleva 
7 pm . 12 pm-activities night, Iafortune 
at nd-smc: 




CONCERT 
Indianapolis Symphony 
Brass Quintet with William Wright, Organist 
Sacred Heart Church Sept. 11 8:15p.m. 
music for organ and brass adm. $l.OO 
~ 
Vienna, and Innsbruck, Austria; and Venice, Florence, and Rome, Italy in a three week period from May 21-June 8. Performances were pre-arranged by Dr. McCray with 
the assistance of Brother Lawrence Stewart, member of the choir. Concerts were arranged in clusters inorder to allow time to sightsee the countries. 
During the tour, they performed ten concerts. They were given in Brussels, Belgium, Trier, Ger­many, Innsbruck, Austria; Vienna, Austria; and the United State embassy and the Vatican in Rome, Italy. "Our best per­formance was in Innsbruck, and singing for the Pope in Rome was the most exciting," Dr. McCray stated. 
The fifty member choir sang for 
general audiences, performing 
inchurches, the Notre Dame 
Campus in Innsbruck, and or­
phanage, and a school for children 
of diplomats. "The audience ac­
ceptance was great. Audiences 
could've been larger but there 
were many concerts given during 
that time. Response was 
tremendous," said McCray. 
With repertoire of the choir 
taken from the 15th to the 20th 
century music eras, the choir sang 
songs from Renaissance Motets, 
Baroque Cantatas, and Classical 
masses were sung. Spirituals and 
popular folk songs were also in­
cluded. Each performance en­
compassed different selections; 
however, all concerts closed with 
"Gloria in Excelsis Deo," by 
Daniel Pinkham. This piece has 
become the choir's theme song 
after it was voted on by the entire 
group. Patty Jo Calahan ac-
The Observer is publiShed daily during the college semester Rxcept vacations by the stuaents of the University of Notre Dame and 51. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for sa per semester ($14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
companied the choir, and Dr. During their free time the Lawrence was the accompanish singers attended a Viennese Music for the Madrigal Singers. Festival, visited art museums, in 
Accompaning Dr. Mc<Oray were Florence, and had an opportunity his wife, Miss Stephens, and Dr. take a river trip in Germany. Lawerence. These members of the There they sang English and St. Mary's music department and German folk songs with German the choir were housed in first class students, which, according to Dr. hotels at each stop except in Rome McCray "was one the most where they stayed on the St. memorable experiences of the trip Mary's campus. (continued on page 7) 
MONDAY 
T.V. Football Kickoff 8-9 Draft Beer 25" 



TUESDAY 
Pool Tournament 


THE RED DOOR CLUB 
110 1/2 N. Main 
notre dome concerts/student union presents 



Chuck Berry 
special guests: The Coasters 
Saturday, Sept. 22 at 8:30 

in the ACC Tickets: $5.50, 4.50, 3.00 
FIRST TICKETS SALE IOMORROW AT GATE 1 0 OF THE A.C.C. AND THE THIRD FLOOR LOUNGE OF LAFORTUNE CENTER 

Checks are accepted 

IWAS IN LOVE 
WITH AGIRL NAMED CA1HY. 




IKILLED HER. 

"It was last summer, and I was 18. Cathy was 18 too. It was the happiest summer of my life. I had never been that happy before. I haven't been that happy since. And I know I'll never be that happy again. It was warm and beautiful and so we bought a few bottles of wine and drove to the country to celebrate the night. We drank the wine and looked at the stars and held each other and laughed. It must have been the stars and the wine and the warm wind. Nobody else was on the road. The top was down, and we were singing and I didn't even see the tree until I hit it." 
Every year 8,000 American people between the ages of 15 and 25 are killed in alcohol related crashes. That's more than combat. More than drugs. More than suicide. More than cancer. 
The people on this page are not real. But what happened to them is very real. 
The automobile crash is the number one cause of death of people your age. And the ironic thing is that the drunk drivers responsible for killing young people are most often other young people. 
r-----------------------,
I
DRUNK DRIVER, DEPT. Y* 

I 
BOX 1969 

I WASHINGTON, D.C. 20013 I I don't want to get killed and I don't I I want to kill anyone. Tell me how I can I help.* Youths Highway Safety I Advisory Committee. I 
I Mynameis I Addres I City_____State___Zip.__ : 
-----------------------~ 
STOP DRIVING DRUNK. STOPIIWIG EAal OTHER.0 
U.S. DEPARTMENT OF T'RANSPORT.ItTKlN NATIONAL HiGHWAY TRAFFIC SAfETY ADMIPI!tSlRATK>N 
' : •• ,• l .' ,... 

IVIanasa seeks volunteers 

to help retarded children 
by Clyde Iverson Staff Reporter 
Manasa. Sounds like the latest Oriental mind trip? Not quite. 
Devoted essentially to the betterment of the human condition, the volunteers of Manasa, students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College, seek to help people; mostly the mentally retarded or disturbed. "We try to do what we can through volunteer work to offer aid and comfort onthe part of the volunteers to those in the South Bend Community" commented Dick Williams, president of Manasa. 

Observer lnsir:~ht. 
Working toward the accomplishment of this goak, there were approximately 200 volun­teers in Manasa-sponsored activites last year. The activities included: the Northern Indiana Children's Hospital, an inpatient nospital for retarded children; Hotline, a helping hand for those in need; and the Halfway house, an adjusting program for emotionally restored patients. These programs will continue this year. 
In addition, there will be opening for 150 more students at the Children's hospital. Completely new programs are planned, such as one beginning in mid-October in the psychiatric ward of Memorial Hosprtal. 
"What Manasa needs is people; what 
Manasa represents, besides the Sanskrit translation -for the mind, is involvement," commented Clint Gibler, Northern Indiana Children's Hopital Chairman. "People working for people is what it is all about," he added. 

"Involvement means about 1-2 hours a week for most people," said Bibler. That is flexible, as Mansas is a student operated organization. Father David E. Schlaver, 
C.S.C. coordinator of Volunteer Services, serves in an advisory capacity. According to Gibler, not only does the student pick the activity that interests him, but also the hours he will be available for service. 
There are no special qualifications for membership in Manasa other than a genuine interest in helping people, and one or two hours a week to devote to that interest. Manasa is a flexible organized non­organization with its primary and only concern being the people it, or rather they, comfort. 
There will be a meeting for Manasa, a chapter of the Mental Health Association, for anyone interested in joining this Tuesday, September 11, in the Engineering Auditorium. 
Informationon these and other aspects of Manasa may be obtained by calling Clint Gibler at 283-3630 or by attending activities night in LaFortune September 10, where Manasa will be represented. 
Although Manasa contributed $4,800 to the Memorial Hospital last year there are no dues, no hassles; just people. It's not on Oriental mind trip, but a social one. People working for peCile is what it's all about. 

While working for The Ombudsman Service last year,it became ap­parent that there was real need to develop some sort ofpublic channel of communication that would promote a better understanding of ND problems and hopefully, solutions to such problems. This observation was by no means a new one, since many had come to the exact con­clusion long before I had ever arrived here at ND, yet few had followed up on establishing such a channel. Perhaps, it was due to alack of free time or to an uncertainity of whom to approach that led most merely to recognize the need for such means of communication while failing to ~ive life and substance to it. 
Those who did try to give it life ran into other obstacles such as personal einexperience in handling the questions, problems, and complaints of a very complex community and lack of professional guidance and assistance in getting things rolling. Indeed, past efforts and their results serve as reminders of just how easy it is to start something which is beyond one's own personal ability. 
With this in mind, I suppose it would be appropriate at this time to call for your support and to state just how essential it is for the success of this column. yet this is not altoghether the case. This column or, if you like service, will succeed only if those to whom it is entrusted are able to prove themselves capable of handling the needs of the com­munity, especially those of the undergraduate student body, in a responsible and effective manner. Without a doubt, the future of t)lis column rests within the willingness of its workers to never give up until the needs of the individual and of the community are effectively dealt with to everyone's satisfaction. However, it would be sheer folly to believe that a venture such as Action Express could succeed without public participation. This in my mind goes without question. Therefore, we hope you will direct your questions, problems, and complaints in writing to Action Wxpress -Box Q -Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 or stop up to the Observer Office -2nd floor of LaFortune and leave your name and number. 
Perhaps, in the weeks to come I will look back upon thiscolumnas being overly confident and optimistic, yet whatever the case turns out to be, I hope some good comes of it. As members of a community who share common concerns, interests, and hopes, weall have a stake in what goes on around us and in seeing that that which is not right is set right. 
-Bill McLain 

Why has the Huddle been closing so early? It used to be open until 
12:30 every night after school started. 
Employe problems have plagued the Huddle's managerial staff recently, a spokesman said Sunday. Students, which are supposed to take the night shifts have been lackidasical in showing up for duty. A night superv:isor said that this problem should be cleared up and that the Huddle 1s scheduled to be open until 12:30 a.m. again, starting Monday night. It will then keep this schedule for the rest of the year. 
Will the university put in any more lighting around Farley and Breen­Phillips? 
Yes. Security Director Arthur Pears is very much concerned about the li.ghting and security around the two new women's dorms, especially smce the growth in popularity of bicycles in the area. He said plans are currently in the works to provide more extensive lighting for the two dorms. 
( 


Mulcahy: Freshman uncrowding is first priority assignment 
by Bob Quakenbush

Staff Reporter Fr. John Mulcahy, C.S.C., director of on-campus housing, stated that uncrowding 96 crowded freshmen is the current first­priority assignment of his department. Mulcahy, entering his first year as director, said, "We would like to relocate the overcrowded fresh­men with other freshmen .. .in normal doubles." This will be accomplished, he continued as soon as possible. Actually, Mulcahy noted, the figure "96" is an exaggeration. As openings have become available in the last week, freshmen have been swiftly relocated. Thus, the actual current figure has dwindled to far less than 96. Asked about upperclassmen who had voluntarily accepted over­crowded condition to enable them to remain on campus this year, Mulcany replied that he foresees "little chance of their being un­crowded." Mulcahy reported that everyone currently on the waiting list for on­campus housing has been offered at least one room, but not necessarily in the hall they prefer. "Therefore, some have chosen to remain on the waiting list until a space opens up in the hall of their choice," said Mulcahy. Along with its primary repon-

Mulcahy: freshmen being relocated. 
sibility of assigning rooms the 
office's many other re~pon­
sibilities include people problems, 
such as the relocation of in­
compatible roommates auCi the 
housing of new transfer students 
and routine maintenance, repair of 
minor damage, and the 
replacement of lost keys. 
Mulcahy stated that ehe decision 
involving the issues of off-campus 
housing for women and end-of-the­
year forceoffs outside the scope of 
his responsibility and he could 
make no statement at this time. 
Campus News ] 
Monday, September 10, 1973 
Page 3 



Bicycle registration to be held Sept. 12-14 in student center 
by Joseph Abell Managing Editor 

Bicycle registration for the 1973­74 school year will be held in the student center this wePk, an­nounced Chris Singleton, a student organizer. 
Set for Wednesday through Friday, the registration booth will be set up in the first floor, main room, of LaFortune Student Center. Students will man the booth between 2:30 and 5:00 p.m. each afternoon. 
A fr€e service, the registration con,sists of recording a student's bicycle serial number, along with a description of the bike, with the security office. Meant more as an identification process rather than a preventative measure against thieves, the registration will enable a student to reclaim nis bike if it is stolen and later recovered. 
Students who registered their bicycles last year need not re­register them again, Singleton said. 

Also available for a $1 fee will be the national registration service, Campute Guard. This registers a student's bicycle with a national computer tied in with the police department in all major cities, providing instant identification of owners when stolen bikes are found. 
"I can't emphasize enough he importance of registering a bike." ., Singleton, who headed the project last year, said. "There aremore bikes than ever on campus and we can't expect Arthur Pears to 
recover every bike that is stolen." He said that over 40 bikes are currently in the security depart­
Bicycle registration provides
ment's "pound" because potential 

identification for student vehicles. 
claimants have bene unable to Singleton, said that if someone provide the serial number. "The does not know the serial number or description usually isn't enough," cannot find it, he should bring the he said. bike itself to the student center. If 
To register a bike, students there is no serial number on the should bring the serial number, bike, he said that metal dies will be color, price, manufacturer year available to stamp a numberon it. and any distinguishing features to The registration will be open to the registration booth. For Notre Dame and St. Mary's Computer Guard, the frame size is 
(continued on page 6)

also necessary. 

----~ ~------------------------­
---~-------------------------------~----------------------, 





THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Art Ferranti Executive Editor 
lee Gentine Business Manager 
Monday, September 10, 1973 
The'31 I Gap 
Friday's Observer reported an in­nocent item which carried ominous proportions. A story confirmed that St. Mary's is in the process of completing their own phone directory. That in itself is not too terrible considering that the school always had their own directory. 
What was ominous was that it was the final confirmation that neither SMC nor Notre Dame printing telephone direc­torie which include both campuses. 
A phone directory is only a small thing, but in a case like this, it is the small things which verify the growing split between the two colleges. It is a terribly sad and stupid occurance that two schools, once so close together, are now turning cold shoulder to each other. It is absurd. 
It is important that SMC grow in their own direction. In fact it is essential, if they attempt to mamtain their position as a good liberal arts school for women. But the separate growing directions of the two schools are not mutually exclusive situations. Where the blame falls cannot be completely determined, so it must fall now on both administrations. 
Both schools can grow in their own self­determined directions, but those directions, mixed with varied emotions leftover from the unmerger, cannot be allowed to drive the two institutions apart. The gap is widening everyday and it is the little things-like phone direc­tories-that are doing it. Combined directories would not be a big sacrifice to make by the administrations of the two schools. In fact, it is a service that the students should expect to receive from these two institutions. 
Jerry Lutkus 


More Room 
Jerry lutkus Dan BarrettEditor-in-Chief Executive Editor 

NEWS: 283-1715 EDITORIALS: 283-8661 John Kloos 
Advertising Manager
BUSINESS: 28:-7471 

Fr. James Shilts will have to do more than devise a rating system for off­campus housing if he is going to be a success as Director of Off-Campus Residence. There are too many students who did not leave campus "freely" for Notre Dame to just desert the off-campus student. 
The Off-campus student is at the mercy of the system-he has little bargaining power since the lanlord knows the student really can't go somewhere else and that Notre Dame won't stick up for her own. The result is obvious to anyone who visits many off-campus houses: too many members of our Christian Community are living in substandard housing. 
But there are even some students who would consider anyone with a house lucky because they have been the victims of racial discrimination. It speaks poorly of Notre Dame that we can get $500 million grant to establish a center for Civil Rights but cannot assure our black students a fair shot at an off-campus house. 
daanesbury 
HARRIG, Pl/1 /1 Ot/1 111/RR!Sl Pt/1 
OR YOt/Rc OFF 1fiE • 1J.IA1 JOINT 
reAM/ YOtJ'Rc HAVING 
A 8AP £FFECT ON 7Hc R£51 or 7HE Gt/Ysl 
OtJTI 
/ 

The off-campus student is not always a "second class student" because of poor communications; sometimes it is because he is caught in the middle and must pay too much to live in ac­comodations that are unfit for human beings. 
"Making the advantages of a residential campus more available to off­campus students" is as important a part of Fr. Shilts' job as he said, but putting Notre Dame's clout behind students who are being robbed by profiteering or racist landlord is just as important. 
Dan Barrett 


Geraldo 

~ butc::h ward 
This summer I became aware of a person for whom I've gained tremendous respect. If I didn't stop and think before describing my feelings towards this man, I might jump the gun and call him a personal idol. 
But to idolize someone is to waste that person. For idols are easily replaced, and those who elevate such heroes are often foolishly in­timidated by their supposed supremecy. 
No, I don't idolize Geraldo Rivera. But I respect him and his work. 
Rivera is what might be called one of the new breed of journalists. Or maybe he's just a throwback to the days when those who reported the news hadn't forgotten that they live in the same community in which the news they are reporting is taking place. 
Whatever the extent to which his work is unique, it is breathing new life into the all too withdrawn world of journalism. 
As a member of the news staff at WABC-TV in New York City, 
Rivera is quickly acquiring a different image for the concerned 
reporter. I first saw his work one disgustingly humid night in June. 
I had just arrived in the Bronx apartment of my girlfriend's brother 
after a 31t2-hour journey from Baltimore. It was just past midnight 
when I switched on the television and met Geraldo. 
The telethon format of the show he was hosting caught me a bit off 
guard, but I was immediately impressed with the magnttism with 
which this young, stylish host was holding his audience. 
His lingo was "now," the people helping him with the telethon were 
readily identified with the youth culture, and his message was laden 
with a caring all too often sacreligiously adopted by the would-be 
"beautiful" people. 
But Geraldo Rivera wasn't feigning concern. The following he has 
developed among New York area viewers will testify to his credibility. 
The story behind the telethon that Rivera was hosting that night is 
typical of his breed of concerned journalism. 
It started with a cause. 
Rivera attempted to take a camera crew inside an understaffed, overcrowded Staten Island State Hospital for mentally retarded children, but his requests for entry were denied. 
All too many journalists would have tried other channels, settled for second-hand information, in short put the accomplishment of their assignment ahead of attaining the real story. 
And indeed, Rivera had a story. 
Unbeknownst to hospital officials, Rivera gained entry to the hospital and proceeded to take his cameras on a tour that shocked hoards of New York viewers. The horror of the scenes captured by Rivera during his trek through the hospital vaulted the need for reform in state institutions for the retarded into a much-deserved spotlight. 
But Geraldo's involvement in the hospital reform didn't end when the cameras stopped rolling at the close of that shocking edition of the 11 p.m. news. And therin lies his most important contribution to the art of journalism. 
Rivera has since been involved in efforts, typified by the telethon 
mentioned previously, designed to raise money and promote changes 
in both treatment of and attitudes concerning the retarded. 
Emphasizing the need to appreciate the possible contribution of the 
retarded in society, he was been instrumental in establishing private 
homes where small groups of young retarded adults can live and be 
self -supporting. 
Perhaps one could question the motivation of such an energetic young crusader. If fame happens to accompany the accomplishments of Geraldo Rivera, it will be well deserved. 
Besides his work with the retarded, Rivera has probed the plight of the migrant worker, and the horrid state of a baby delivered from the womb of the addicted mother. Real causes that demand more than "straight reporting." 
If there are minor errors in some of the feats I've credited to Rivera, I blame them upon the remarkable enthusiasm with which some of those who have viewed him have described his work. 
For while the good reporter would have taJired personally to Geraldo for the facts behind his story, I am much mure interested in relating the effect that this man has had upon those for whom his journalism is directed. 
And really, that's what's important. Because in these times when the credibility of the news media is being questioned by the very leaders of this land, men like Rivera are adding much needed credence to this necessary trade. 
And they're doing it by involving themselves in the news they report. I hope one day to be able to do a much more extensive story on the work of Geraldo Rivera. Or better yet, I hope to achieve the same degree of involvement~ and concern~in the news that I report. 

caarry trudeau 
IT's -mue! ZONKER'5 
5/i17!NG A TERRIBlE f3)(AMPlE/ .I'/>f.. M& roo' .I'ft11180l/T 7lJ .r cAN'r· 51/C0/1'181 7J/I(£ 7JI& PEER. GROt/P PR£551JRt 
ANYlON6ER!
\ 
\ I 

the observer 
Night Editor: Marlene Zloza 
Layout: Jerry Lutkus, Joe Abell 
Copy Editor: Rick Thues 
Typists: Steve Roper, Diane Chermside, 
Rob Steinmetz 

Picture Screener: Jerome Phillips 
Day Editor: Mary Janca 
Night Controller: Joe Abell 
Special Guest: Bob Rhodes 





Little Bif:l Screen 

new season begins this week 
temptin' 
The turnout was surprisingly small, and this writer's guess is that the majority of tlle people in attendance were local people, not Notre Dame students. Considering the reputation and fame of the featured group, this came as quite a shock. However, the crowd anxiously awaited the entrance of Ule group, and the restlessness of the audience became obvious as the time drew near for 
the group's appearance, despite th': fact i.hat the band which preceeded the mam act put on a stunning performance. 
Finally, at 9:25 pm., one hour and 
twenty-five minutes after show-time began, 
the Temptations took the stage. They began 
by doing a stepped-up version of their most 
recent s·mash single, Plastic Man. The 
attentive audience braced itself for an 
enjoyable evening. Following this opening 
number, which went over very well with the 
enthusiastic audience, the Temptin' Temps 
jumped back a few years and performed 
another stepped-up version of an earlier 
smash hit, I Can't Get Next to You. It went 
over so well with the audience that when the 
group h;vited them to clap in time with the 
music, the response was immediate. 
Tactfully, the famed quintet slowed things 
down for awhile with two mellow numbers 
which gave the audience a chance to recover 
from the breakneck pace of the openers. 
What the people did not realize, though, is 
that they were merely being set-up for the 
next number, a smashing version of still 
another earlier hit, Cloud Nine. Before 
anyone knew what was happening, the 
Temps were at it again, blaring out their 
unique sound and showing off their flam­
boyant dance steps which have been an 
integral part of the Temptations routing 

temps

byron king 
since the group's birth over a decade ago. 
The group then decided to capture a few laughs by dedicating a number to all the lovers in the audience, "especially those two fellas right there!" The Temps got the desired response, and they immediately went right into the theme song from the motion picture, Play Misty for Me, entitled The First Time Ever I Saw Your Face. The song, originally done by Roberta Flack, was a hit a couple of years ago. No one would have guessed that five male voices could do justice to a song made famous by the soft, sweet voice of Roberta Flack. But it came off beautifully.
Again the group went back in time. From 
the year 1966 Get Ready was done just· as 
well as ever. Still drawing on their 
collection of oldies, the soulful five did one 
of their greatest hits, My Girl. The audience 
responded so well to the beginning of the 
song that the group invited the people to sing 
along. Fortunately, only a few in the 
audience sang --most were too busy· 
listening. The end of My Girl led right into 
the beginning of yet another of the Temp­
tations' oldies, The Way You Do the Things 
You Do. 

Returning once again to the present, the 
Temps did Iley Girl, a number which 
happens to be on their latest album, entitled 
:\lasterpiece.

After pausing to introduce the orchestra 
which backs the Temptations, the group 
stayed smooth as they had been during the 
preceeding number, while they eased on into 
a mellow performance of Just My 
Imagination . The harmony was awesome­
· th~ -~xecution was sweet. 

"Ladies and gentlemen. it's true," uttered 


art ferranti 
Get set, people, because the new season begins this week. Not only do the new shows premiere, but many of the old programs begin new seasons. Coupled with them are the movies -there will be a great many more of them this year if one can include 'lll the made-for-TV quickies. 
Planet of the Apes 
I guess thhe biggest lead-off movie is Planet of the Apeswhich airs on Friday at an earlier-than-usual time (check the TV Log in this Wednesday Observer). As just about everyone knows, this loosely based Pierre Boule adaptation stars Charleton Heston and a batch of familiar character actors and actresses hidden in ape garb.
<Aurora models is even producing plastic kits of the apes. ) This spawn of 2001 tries to stay reasonably technical but falls into playschool antics at many points throughout the film. For example, when Heston is on trial by the three head apes <Maurice Evans, James Whitmore, and James Daly), the overgrown monkies, in order to not hear, see, or speak the truth, clasp their hands over their respective parts of their faces to resemble the hear, see, and speak no evil monkey triplets. 
The ending of the movie is cliche by now 
but it does add a message('?) to the movie . 
And the movie does have other fine 
points. One example is the moment Heston 
finally speaks to the ape captors after an 
abortive escape attempt. On the whole, it 
is an entertaining flick and is a heck of a lot 
better than its four sequels. 
Irma La Douce has Jack Lemmon and 
Shirley MacLaine cavorting around Paris in 
one of Lemmon's funniest comedies (I 
cannot remember a bad film he has 
made l. He plays a French cop and she 
a .... well, why spo~ the fun. This film also 
airs early but on Saturday night. You 
might as well catch the good ones now, 
incidentally, because the movie companies 
sell as part of the package deal some real 
bombs with every good film. And there are a number of good films slated. 
Frank Sinatra makes two appearances this coming week. Tonight he stars in The Lady in Cement, his second Tony Rome private-eye film. With Dan Blocker as a heavy <that means nasty person in movie talk> and Raquel Welsh as one of Rome's Miami damsels in distress, the movie, like many sequels, falls flat on its proverbial face. It often utilizes violence to break up the boredom but even that fails .. Try not to sink into this one at 8:00 tonight 
More Sinatra 

The Detective is the better of the two by far. Airing on the ABC Sunday Night Movie, this has Frankie as a tough New York City detective who has to find the murderer of a homosexual.. From that you can guess that the drama is somewhat realistic. Its dialogue is formidable for the censors besides. Jack Klugman <TV's "The Odd Couple") Lee Remick, and Jacqueline Bisset co-star in this fine cop film. 
Steiger vs. Poitier 

A rerun, but deservedly so, is In The 
Heat of the Night on Wednesday. Rod 
Steiger plays a Southern sheriff that set 
the stage for a stereotype mold of 
Southern lawman . He copped an Oscar 
for it besides. Sidney Poitier is his foil, of 
course. Poitier plays a Philadelphia 
detective (to later be switched to San 
Francisco in the sequels) who tries to 
solve a murder in Steiger's town. The meat 
of the movie is not in the mystery but in 
the clash 0 rthe two characters which is 
resolved in a decent ending. 

A different sort of film is Eve! Knievel. 
starring George Hamilton as the real life 
motorcycle stunt driver. Sue Lyon plays 
his hapless girlfriend later to become Mrs . 
Knieval. The movie is filled with gags and 
puns and some great motorcycle sequences 
Monday, September 10, 1973 the observer 
Dennis. "It's really true. Should I tell them, fellas'? I mean, should I tell these folks'? Okay, I'll tell you, ladies and gentlemen. It's true." The audience grew restless and impatient. Some shouted "What's true?" and "Get on with it1" Dennis' reply to the curious crowd: "It's really true. My papa was a rollin' stone!" Suddenly, the group had burst into wild song and dance again. 
The final number of the evening was their newest hit, entitled Masterpiece, from the album of the same name. The Temp­lations pranced off the stage to the rhythm of the music, after making an impressive debut at Notre Dame. 
In all, the show represented an agreeable mixture of the old and the new. A group that has quite conspicuously changed with the times, the Temptations performed with tact. There was something for everyone; oldies for the die-hards, and enough of the new sound of the Temptations to balance things off very well. 

(not to mention some humorous ones like riding a cycle up an all-girls dorm steps into Miss Lyon's bedroom l. Incidentally, the real Knieval has been refused permission to try to jump the Grand Canyon, so he went out and bou_ght his own canyon. The jump is scheduled wh.enever he has worked out the bugs on the rockets on his cycle. The movie airs Thursday. 
On the typical Western circuit, Gregory Peck stars as a sheriff who has to face a revenge-seeking bad guy who had been put away by Peck in Shoot Out In other words, it is a slower moving version of High Noon and Firecreek. There is even a scene with Peck and his daughter that is reminescent of To Kill a Mockingbird, but it is only a fleeting memory at best. It premieres tonight at eight on 16. 
Fly the Friendly Sllies 

Drive Hard, Drive Fast, a sleeper and 
rightfully so, has Brian I<"elly ("Flipper") 
the target of a killer while he is not racing 
his cars. The film must have been one of 
those package deals for NBC. Thi~ film 
begins tomorrow at 8:00 on 16. Skip this pit 
stop. On the made-for-TV scene Coffee, 
Tea, or Me has Karen Valentine as a 
stewardess who has one husband in LA 
and another in London. It is obviouslv 
loosely based on the bestseller of the 
same name, sino:e Miss Valentine's 
character is not even in the book. It flies 
in at 8:30 tomorrow night on 22. 
Two Old Plots Redone 

George Kennedy, Jan-Michhael Vincent, and Jim Davis <remember "Res'!ue 8"?) among others stumble upon a plane hijacker'smoney and decide to keep it in Deliver Us From Evil at 7:30 pm tomorrow. Sounds like a Treasure of Sierra Madre rewrite. The final film is the made­for-TV She Lives which i~ so obviously a 
rip-off of Love Storv that it too has tears a dying girl, and other assorted drivel.. With Desi Arnaz Jr . , pi obably still broken up over Liza "with a "Z", the suds flow on 
the premiere new season of the . \BC Wednesday Night Movies. 
Premieres Many new shows premiere this week. Tonight on NBC "Lotsa Luck" and "Diana". Tomorrow on NBC "Chase" gets it first airing. Thursday showcases the "NI;JC Follies" and Friday "Adam's Rib" begms on ABC with "The Girl with S~met~ing Extra" getting its first taste of pnme time on NBC and "Calucci's Dept." doing likewise on CBS. 
l . . : .
a ~·../-Till 

UnTOUCHABLES 

Reruns Channel 28 will air original "Star Trek" repeats beginning this Saturday at 6:00 and in a showing of great taste two reruns of "The Untouchhables" withh Robert Stack will be shown back to back Saturday nighhts at 10:30 on 22. Narrated by Walter Winchell and featuring excellent stories and characterization the Emmy awarding show is long over :iue r~run airings in this area. Now, if we can only get "The Man from U..N..C..L ... E .." 
In memoriam Director John Ford, recently honored by President Nixon, passed away of natural causes last week. 
Trivia Question Name the motel in "Petticoat Junction." ·1sa11 .\peqs aqJ. : Ja.v.suy 

... ,; t 

... ,, the observer Monday, September 10, 1973 


University costs rise 
Bedmaking service terminated 
by Gregg Bangs 
Staff Reporter 

The days of student luxury ~re now over. Gone forever are the days when a student can expecro have a maid make his bed after he has left for class. 
Bed making service was ter­minated, according to Reverend Jerome Wilson, C.S.C., vice­president for Business Affairs for the University, because there has been a tremendous increase in the cost of food over the past year. Pecause the increased charge for 
Therefore, students should not


Belfast police blame sex 
count on dropping their linen off on 
the same day every week, but must 
watch for signs indicating when

maniac in child mu!der they whould do so. 
by Colin Baker 

BEU'AST <UPI>-Police Sunday blamed the sadistic killing of a child, whose mutilated body was found inside a sack floating in the Lagan River, on a sex maniac whom then cast in the same mold as Jack the Ripper. 
Police said the body of the child was so badly mutilated that pathologists could not immediately determine the sex. 
"It was obviously the work of a maniac," one policeman said. "The things that were done to the child were horrible." 
A spokesman said the victim was believed to be 10-year-old Brian McDermott, who disappeared in Belfast a week ago, but that no firm identification has yet been made. 
An army spokesman said a bomb-laden car exploded outside the holiday home of 30 Catholic schoolboys in Belfast Sunday, shattering windows but causing no injuries. 
The blast followed a warning earlier this week by the militant Protestant Ulster Freedom Fighters IRA, who said they would resume their anti-Catholic bomb campaign this weekend. 
Earlier this year two young women were assaulted and hacked to death by what police termed a sex maniac in Belfast, but officers said the latest attack appeared to be the work of a different man. 
During that period, 881 persons have been killed in armed strife among the majority Protestants, minority Roman Catholics and the security forces. 
Military sources Sunday said at least one more man, an Irish Republican Army <IRAJ leader, has died and two IRA men have become seriously ill from handling the IRA's home-made bombs in recent weeks. 
They said all had been exposed to nitro-benzine, a deadly sub­stance that can cause blood disorders such as leukemia. 
The army first warned against nitro-benzine 'when a young IRA bomber died a year ago, but the source said the IRA apparently decided to ignore the advice. 
In other actions, gunmen Saturday ambushed and seriously wounded a policeman in f'~·•nty Armagh and set off three bo ...... s in 
.fi..~:~:~:~.:..:l:':!l.=...~...=.=.~·.-.=:i:i:i:i!~~-~~;·~flfl!lj··:.-~·.-.-.~·.-.-.-~.-.-.-.~·b·~;a~--.-.;~·;.-~~·~·~;~.-.~~--;~~·~~·~-~-.-...-.-.~·
....~ 
D'i? ,: :;i;~
~m?~r catch a COLD draft a'!;:~~~ 
~~~ 
~ "L-t,~ ) ~ ~:==" .• ,~;=-~~·--.·­Pitchers of beer 

REAL Italian Sandwiches ~ ~i~ 


SIMERI'S iof 
~ ~~~ 
410 N Hill St )1 
• • 1~~l Pool table h~ 
roqm, board, and laundry did not buildings, explained that the linen even come close to matching the service process will be rather rise in food prices, the University simple. On the designated day for 
felt it necessary to cut backAin other areas in order to make up for the food price increase. 
Elimination of bet:l.naking saved the University thirty-five to forty maids, which coupled with the $35 increase in room and board fees, should cover roughtlyvthres fotirths of the rise in food costs, according to Wilson. 
Walter Jaworski, assistant the dirty laundry pick-up, which is 
director of maintenance and collected on the same day every week, the schedule for the linen pick-up is on a rotating schedule. 
"We didn't drop anybody," downtown Londonderry. The maintained Jaworski, "we just had explosions heavily damaged a to juggle people around." bakery, a photopraphers's shop The only people who were and a drug store, but caused no dropped were the maids or janitors injuries police said. that didn't want to come back, the 
few that were fired, or the ones 
that turned sixty-five and weren't 

allowed to work anymore because Student Union of University policy. Jaworski 
added that maids over sixty-fiveand ACC reveal would be called occasionally to 
substitute for a day or so. 

Both Wilson and Jaworski notedconcert schedu1e that many women are working as 
by Bill Sohn Staff Reporter 
Student Union and ACC per­sonnel announced several definite concerts and some tentative ones for the semester. 
Pure Prarie League will perform free September 15 in Stepan Center. Chuck Berry along with the Coasters appear at the ACC on September 22. 
The Student Union will present Elton John the ACC on Saturday, October 6. The ACC brings the Carpenters on October 27. 
At the Temptations concert Saturday, the ACC management also announced concerts with Paul Simon and New Riders of tile Purple Sage with Roger McGuinn. Dates for these concerts are still tentative. 
Bikes to be registered in 
LaFortune 
(continued from page 3) 
···

students, he added but said that ........·.··················· · · ........... .
no official liason h~d been set up ~f:;"······-·.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.;.:.:·:·:·:·.·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·. :.:.:-::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::':::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:;: 
with the St. Mary's security ~~~~ department. ;::: 
"We'll be glad to provide a legai ;~;~
record for St. Mary's students ~:: however." Singleton said. ;:;: He said he hoped more student ;:;: would turnout this year to register ;:;: 
their bicycles. Only 160 students i::: 
registered bikes last year out C'f Ph :;:;: estim~ted1600 on campus. Any· :~;: questions on the registration ;:;: should be directed to the security :;:; department, at 6130, Singleton ~;~; said, or to himself at 7946. :;:; 
..jI 
linen pick-up in a dorm, the maids will put up signs in strategic first floor positions stating that the linen is to be picked up. All the students have to do is bring the dirtylinen to the pick-up area and exchange it for fresh linen. 
Jaworski noted that the process has run smoothly during the first two days of operation. But unlike 
janitors this years. Jaworski said women who were looked upon as fit enough to do a janitor's job could get promoted. He stated that the work was tougher, but the pay was roughly twenty five dollars per week higher than that of a maid. 
This practice is nothing new and schools such as Purdue and Penn State also have women working as janitors, according to Jaworski. Among other buildings, there are janitors now working in Holy Cross, Corby, Walsh, Farley, the Law School Building and the Student Center. 
Placement manuals delayed 
Word has just been received by the Placement Bureau that delivery of the 1973-74 Placement Manual has been delayed. The Bureau regrets the inconvenience but asks that students watch 
the observer for 
announcementsthe of
1 receipt of Manual. 
~~~~ 
~::


T H E 0 BsERVER ~~~ 
:;:; ::;: 
.;:;:

wants typ1•sts .;:;; ;:;: 
;:;: 
~:;: 
:;:; 
:~:: 
;:;:

Afternoon and evening work I ;:;: 
!i~ 

Regular schedules !!!! 
Beginning salary $1.60 per hour I!;!~ \~1~ 
Call Hc:Mard Halle at 1175 1!jj 
~ ~~~j 
or ll~l 

BICYCLE CENTER 
1437 Portage Ave. Phone 287-1673 
./

..,  
Ask for student discounts  
I 0 SPEED RACERS  
Hours:  Daily 9:30-5:30 Mon. till 8:30  011 HAND FOR  
IIIIIIEDIATE  
We service all makes  D£LIY£RY!  

NotreDameConcerts/Student Union presents 
RCA recording artists 
PURE PRAIRIE LEAGUE 
in a free concert at Stepan Center Saturday, Sept. 15 at 8:00 p.m. N.D./SMC ID required for admission 
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J 
~Y.:if!.~~-~~~~~~(~~:~1:!~~!'.;0-~~~~I~~lt=*>hmK»>~»,.>.>>C«••=:.:<%~~~~,:,~::~~=-=-,,J 
~-----------------------------------------------------.------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Monday, September 10, 1973 the obse.rver 
7 
St. Mary's announces 'New Novell lectures 

by Janet Longfellow Staff Reporter 

A new lecture series, sponsored by both the St. Mary's Modern Language and English depart­ments, will begin September 20. The series is titled, "The New Novel: An International Ap­proach." It is geared towards providing a world-wide view of contemporary literature. 
Students are invited to attend any of the eight lectures which comprise the first semester of the series. The various speakers will discuss eachof the different genres representative of American, Spanish, Latin-American, French, English and German authors. Spring semester, the subject will involve certain aspects of in­terna tiona! poetry. 
Chairman of St. Mary's Modern Language Department, Sr. Anna Theresa Bayhouse, described the series' purpose is to familiarize those interested in 20th century literature with the ideas and movements taking place in other countries. She explained, "It was primarily our feeling that we would like to have more inter­departmental communication. There were a number of French and Spanish majors who are in­terested in the modern novel, so we felt that it would be to everyone's advantage of offer the op­portunity.'' 
Researching the possibilities for the series produced eight other interested professors. As a result it was made into a course where 

Six people die in Alaskan plane crash 
('old Bay, Alaska t:PI ­

The wreckage of a chartered military jet transport was found on the side of a mountain Sunday. The Coast Guard reported no survivors among the six persons aboard. 
The wreckage of the plane which disappeared Saturday while ap­proaching this rain and fog shrouded airstrip at the tip of the Alaska Peninsula was first spotted by a commercial airliner about 3,400 feet up the side of Mt. Dutton. 
The Coast Guard said that a helicopter with searchers flew through bad weather to the crash site about 15 miles south of Cold Bay. 
No survivors were found, the spokesman said. A Coast Guard cutter, military 
aircraft and a ground crew had searched for the World Airways DCS that disappeared while ap­proaching Cold Bay. 
The plane was to make a scheduled refuelling stop on the flight from Travia Air Force Base, Calif., to Yokota, Japan, and Clark flying a Gruman Goose seaplane spotted the wreckage about half­way up the side of the 5,000-foot mountain. 
An Air Force helicopter flew a paramedic to the scene. Four bodies were found during an initial search of the wreackage, but they were not identified. 
Aboard the aircarft owned by World Airways of Oakland, Calif., were three crewmen identified as pilot .John A. Weininger, 55, San Jose, Calif., 1st officer Greg W. Evans, 27, Mountain View, Calif., 

and engineer Robert Brocklesby, 46, Fremont, Calif. 
Three other company employes also aboard were listed as Keiji Kato, 45, station manager at Yokota. Japan, and off-duty of­ficers Harry J. Werner, 31, Spartan , NJ. and Scott B. Chap­man, 30, Hayward, Calif. 
The plane dtsappeared from a radar scope while about 22 miles from the runway at this isolated field with the ceiling only about 500 feet above ground due to fog and a light drizzle. 
Choir tours Europe 
(continued from page 2) 
for the kids." 
Most of the financial respon­sibilities were paid for by the students. Donations and other sources also aided the financing. 
The concerts and activities were 
filmed on location. The move, 

Air Base in the Phillippines with a · entitled "I'm Gonna Sing," will be load of tires. used for recruiting, alumni, and 
~~THh~e~CHo~as8t~G~u!a~r8d~s~a8id~t·h·aHt~a~p8il~ot~~pHu~bHliHciHtyH.mHHH~HHHHmflmflmfl~~ 
WANTED 

NICKlE'S 
-REWARD­
BOURBON BURGER SPECIAL 
'hlb. Bourbon Burger "flamed in Bourbon.' 12oz. bowl of S::Jup de Nickie's and 
1 cgld pint of Schlitz beer. s 1.50 11a.m.-7p.m. 
ALl DAY SCHLITZ SPECIAL 
Mon.-Tues.-Wed. Pint size Schlitz for pint-size price of 35~ 
"BLINKING LIGHT SPECIAL" 
When lights l:Jink. things begin to happen. So be re ared!! 
students could become acquainted with modern literature in more than one language. 
Sr. Bayhouse commented, "A very important by-product of this series is that each lecture will be followed by a discussion, with students and teachers exchanging views. We will also have par­ticipating visitors from IUSB and Bethel College." 
following them." 

Spanish department Chairman, Mrs. Josephine Barallat added that the series provides the ad­vantage of not having to know the language, but to learn about the literature of a foreign country. "It will especially add to Modern Language classes, adding more to our rather basic approach to teaching grammar and language. 
It will be stimulating to teachers because we can talk on a higher, more interesting and intellectual level," Barrallat added. 
Sign-ups for the course are open until September 14. One-credit is offered for the eight times it meets, and will be graded pass-fail. The atmosphere will be informal, held in Stapleton Lounge in Le Mans Hall. 
Sister Jean Kiene, chairman of .--------------------------------, 
the English department, explained the structure of the series was to promote easy comparisons of writers' differences and similarities. She stated, "We are beginning with .Joyce and Faulkner. because of their ex­penmental techniques in handling the question of time and sp11ce, which influenced all others 
"Th · b · t' · d 
e mam o Jec tve m min ," remarked Dr. McCray, "was to have musical experience with the choir in a foreign city." Riding buses for long distances "unified the spirit of the students. Everyone got along so well," said McCray. 
Plans for a similar program are underway already as the choir is beginning to organize its 1973-74 
AS LONG AS YOU'RE STUCK IN SOUTH BEND 
you should have someone take care of 
your immediate insurarr:e needs namely 
APARTMENI !NSURANCE CAR INSURANCE 
at very reasonable rates. Call me for a quote: Jim Dunfee 282-4344 
DUNFEE GREENAN AGENCY 
1756 Mishawaka Avenue 
South Bend 15 Indiana 

TONIGHT 
doorsopen 6:45 

PLEASE N0 T E: I. D. REQUIRED ! ! 
1Bor over! Mat. Sun. 2: 15 

rp_ro_g_r_a_m_·-----------------------------------------------------------------------, 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
LOST and found 
LOST:Green clipboard folder. imprinted GReenlite, contains white pads· Morton Aboretum Quarterly. paper, lost Sept. 1 between Morrissey Hall and Main gate. if found, please contact Professor Horsvrugh. Ar chitecture. 7774 
PERSONAL 
To Jet 9 Jet Huggers (Oregon chapter( & 'Da Boss': Thanks tor a great summer. Youre all right. Hey Leon , Pack it you creep! ..Mr. O'Fry P.S. Where's my signs? 
WANTED 
Needed: 4 general cdmissions tix to any home game except Air Force. Call John 282·1568. 
Roommate needed Notre Dame Apts. 832 ND Ave, Apt. 2A. Call 233·1302. 
Housemate wanted Sept-May. 
Live with 4 ND seniors. Fur. nished, carpeted, newly redecorated, 3 bedrooms, 2 livinq rooms, (one up, one down) study, kitchen bath, good neighborhood. 234·7589.--------­
Want to buy a secondhand girls bike. Call 4955 Jamid.---­
Housemate wanted to share fur· nished house with 2 seniors Con. tact Steve Vierling, 420 Sf. Vincent. 
Home for Labrador pup. OWNER WILL FEED, CLEAN UP. Will pay. Call 1628 Ken. 
Need a iob?We need a receptionist and an experienced pressman . Hours 1·5. Mon., Wed., Fri.,Call Glen at 7047 or 1008. 
Roommate wanted for JOC Apt. $45 month + utilities. 840 N ND Ave. Or call 283 3061 
Need to hire readers. Please call 233-6437 Mark Maurer 
Girls Group Home needs Mature , reliable couples (preferably without children) to act as sub­stitute houseparents on weekends. Paid position. Apply to Mrs. Carol Wilken at 233·9491.-----­
Still need one housemate at 629 Riverside drive. Excellent location , condition, separate bedroom $50 per month+ utilties. Call 233·8480 
FOR SALE 

Can'flind textbooks? See PAN· DORAS BOOKS, 602 n St. Louis. (Ah South Bend Ave) We have a 
three day special order service on 
new and used textbooks. New and used books bought, sold, and traded. 
Need a car? See John Voll '73' At Gates Chevrolet in South Bend for great buys on new and used cars and trucks. 288·1421. 
1969 Chevy Impala Gold 4 door Sedan good condition.Call 283.7558. 
1965 Chvrolet sedan 6 cyl. stick. New paint new tires. Dependable, economical. !'.. ,&"'e.OOCall 233· 1615 after 5:00p.m. 
Refrigerator, girls bike and ice skates, portable radio, and Sony TV. Excellent condition. Call 6426. 
1967 Van, Ford super econoline. Hahg carpeting, naugahide bench, luma done good condition. phone 232 ·4335. 
Custom made rustiG furniture. 
Prices low-No middle man. Also waterbeds. Call for appointment. 234·4654 
NOTICES 
Need money tasl! Morrissey Loan 'Fund is now open Borrow up to S150.00Monday thru Friday 11: 15· 
12:15. Basement of Lafortune student center. 
California Club signuos tonite activities nile, Stepan Keep up your membership as we are definitely planning· a Christmas flight. Dues $1. 
Need someone willing to exchange rooms. Call Matt McKool. Rm. 239 Lyons Hall, 7921. 
Will do typing. Themes, manuscripts, letters Call 233-6909. 
ARTISTIC STUDENTS: $25 prize for best sketch. Inquire at Nickies. 
FOR RENT 
6 bedroom house, completely furnished close to N D. Call 234· 9364 
1 or 3 room apt. 10 min. drive to ND. Phone 288·9533. Julia H. Caine. 


--------~----------------------------~ 
~--~~~~~~---­
Defense, errors mark scrimma 
by Vic Dorr And the Irish coach was hardly Sports Editor exaggerating. Junior qb Tom Clements opened the scrimmage The Fighting Irish football team for the number-one "0" by passing ran through one of its few 42 yards down the right sideline to remaining full-dress scrimmage~ wide receiver Pete Demmerle, and on Saturday morning in the stadium the completion netted a first down 
and the results of the two and one­at the defensive unit's 15-yard line. half hour workout left head coach 
But Clements, after that, couldAra Parseghian both pleased and move his squad just two yards inperturbed. 
three plays, and th~ drive ended 
Offensively, it was not the kind of when placekicker Bob Thomas was scrimmage coaches enjoy talking wide to the left with a 30-yard field about. The first team ground out a goal try. 27-16victory overits second-string 
On its next possession, the first­opponents, but not until late in the line offense moved across mid­final period, when fullback Wayne field, but was forced to punt fromBullock galloped seven yards for the 47. Brian Doherty's kick was an insurance touchdown, did the blocked by freshman defensive end number one's put the game away. 
Ross Browner, and Browner "I found it very disappointing scooped up the loose ball and 
from the offensive standpoint," returned it to the 32 before Doherty said Parseghian. ''We made a could wrestle him out of bounds. great number of errors, many of Two plays later, on second-and­them unexplainable. 10 from the 32, quarterback Frank 
"We didn't protect the passer. Allocco found halfback AI Samuel When we did protect him, he'd in the end zone between defensive throw inaccurately. And when we backs Mike Townsend and Mike finally did throw accurately, the 
Parker, and hit him with a high, receiver would drop the ball. We arcing touchdown pass. had a pass intercepted and run 
Thomas' extra point attempt hit back for a touchdown. We dropped 
the left upright, but the number punts. We had a motion penalty on 
two's had their first lead of the a field goal, of all things. 
morning, 6-0. 

"The second team," noted 
"We just made too many Parseghian, "is a heck of a lot 
mistakes." better now than it was a year ago. 
Vic Dorr ==================================================================================================~================================ 
The Irish Eye 


Notre Dame, for whatever reason, does not fare very well at the hands 
of Sports Illustrated. 
From 1966, when the sports division of Time-Life, Inc., led off its story 
on Notre Dame's 10-10deadlock with Michigan State by paraphrasing the 
Victory March: 
What though the odds be great or small, 
Old Notre Dame will tie over all-
to the present, when John Underwood, while picking the Irish to finish 
seventh in the nation this fall, still managed to gig ND head coach Ara 
Parseghian for being "unable to win the Big One," Notre Dame's football 
program has often taken its lumps from S.l. 's silver-tongued scribes. 
There have been exceptions, of course-the most notable being Jerry 
Kirshenbaum's excellent article on "The Greening of the Fighting Irish" 
in late autumn of 1970, and the college football issue prior to the 1971 
season, when Sports Illustrated picked Notre Dame as the best team in 
the nation-but they have beeen just that: exceptions. 
More frequent, or at least more memorable, have ben articles such as 
the one on the ND-MSU game in '66-the first of many "games of the 
decade." So intense was the rancor stirred up by that story, that Dan 
Jenkins, S. I.'s resident college football analyst, used to treasure a letter 
he received some time after the conclusion of the 1966 season. 
The Irish ended that season as the National Champions, and they 
claimed th crown by dismantling Southern Cal, 51-o, in the final game of 
the year. Some time after that game, Jenkins received a brief, caustic 
note from a staunch Notre Dame supporter, a student. 
"Sir," it read, "Notre Dame 51, Southern Cal 0. Go straight to hell, you 
lousy son of a bitch." 
The reaction of that student-author was, it going without saying, a bit 
extreme. But h.e did make his point. And it's a point many Notre Dame 
followers-student and otherwise-have commented on in subsequent 
years. 
The swipe taken at Parseghian, though-in the current issue of the 
magazine-seems particularly unfair. For saying that Ara, in his first 
nine years in South Bend, has been unable to "win the Big One," is tan­
tamount to saying that Notre Dame has not won a critically important 
football game almost 10 years' time. 
And that, quite simply, is untrue. 
Several criticallyimportantvictories from the past three years alone 
come instantly to mind-foremost among them is ND's 24-11 decision 
over Texas in the 1971 Cotton Bowl-but far more appropriate is Ara's 
own reaction to the charge of blowing the big ones. 
"What," he asked, "is the criteria for a big game? What about our victories over Georgia Tech and LSU (Notre Dame's eighth and nimh victories in 1970J? Weren't they big games?" They were indeed: Notre Dame defeated Tech, 10-7, after trailing in the fourth period, 7-3; and shaded LSU, 3-Q, on Scott Hempel's short field goal with ninety-some seconds left in the ball game. 
But the fact that Notre Dame won both of those football games was not 
Parseghian's point. His point was that virtually every time Notre Dame 
plays a football game it is a big game-particularly to ND's opponent. 
"We can all pretend not to be bothered by the pressure of being 
favored," said Ara, prior to the '72 season, "but it's there. For instance, 
when we play a team that's not in the top ranking, we do everything 
possible.,to keep the team from letting down, but sometimes nothing 
works ... 
And when nothing works for the Irish, and everything works for the 
opposition, a "breather" against a "weak" opponent often becomes a 
critically big game. 
It happened last year against Missouri. The Tigers had been shellacked 
theprevious week, 62-0, and came to South Bend to play an unheated Irish 
squad. They left town on that drizzly, dreary after in possession of one of 
1972's biggest upsets. 
"I never thought about itbeforel became the coach at South Bend," said 
Ara, ·•but looking back on when I was at Northwestern, I guess I relished 
the four victories over Notre Dame more than anything else." 
So it may go this season. Sports Illustrated lists two Irish foes­Purdue and Southern Cal-as being big games. By omission, then, the contests with Rice, Michigan State, Air Force and Pittsburgh are relegated to "little game" status. And there they'll stay, unless one of those teams manages to rise to the occasion, catch Notre Dame "down," and do what Missouri did last year. Then, they, too, will become big games. 
And both teams today had to play under pressure. The first team, particularly, had to come back several times, and I think a game like this is far more beneficial than one where the first team wins 
40-0 or 50-0." 
Clements engineered the first 
comeback just f(lur plays into the 
second period, when he scrambled 
into the end zone from four yards 
out to knot . the score at six. 
Thomas' point after put the 
number one's in front for the first 
time, but seven minutes later, 
after an invalid fair catch signal 
had returned the ball to the 
number two offense, he drilled a 
46-yard field goal to give the edge 
back to the number two's. 
And that edge increased in 
a hurry. Cliff Brown replaced 
Clements at quarterback with six 
mintutes remaining in the half, 
and his first pass was intercepted 
along the right sideline by 
sophomore Tom Lopienski, who 
returned the ball 25 yards for a 
tou :hdown with 5:46 remaining in 
the first half. 
Clements returned to the ehlm at 
the start of the third period, and 
pieced together a 51-yard drive 
that ended when Thomas booted a 
38-yard field goal. Thomas, ..a 
sidewming kicker who didn't miss 
an extra point last fall, made it 16­
13 just four minutes later when, 
after a Clements-led drive stalled 
at the eight, he notched a 25-yard 
chip shot. 
But the first offense didn't take 
the leadfor good until Russ Korn­
man scored from the three with 
I :51leftin the third stanza, and not 
until Bullock tallied-with 4:29 
showing in the final frame-did 
they put the game away. 
An additional quarter of action 
was given to the third units on 
offense and defense, and junior 
Chuck Kelly accounted for the 
only scoring in the extra period 
by sprawling in the end zone to 
catch Kurt Horton's 20-yard pass. 
The Irish gridders will scrim­
mage on Wednesday, and then 
again on Saturday before heading 
into game preparation week for 
their September 22 home opener 
with Northwestern. 
"At least," said Parseghian, 
"we'll have a week to work on the 
errors we made today. We won't be 
able to do it next week, because 
that's game preparation week for 

Sailors fourth in Boiler regatta 
The 1973 intercollegiate sports them the championship. season opened for Notre Dame 
The Irish challenged the leadSaturday as the Irish sailing team throughout the regatta with Robplaced second in a field of nine Gaw (two firsts) and AI Constantsteams at the Purdue Fall Regatta. 
(one first) capturing other vic­Behind an auspicious per­tories. Neil Barth and teamformance by freshman Paul captain Bruce Marek also skip­Makielski, the Irish came within pered second and third placeone point of catching leader Ohio finishes.
State in the final heat. Makielski captained his boat to three firsts in The meet was only the first of a 
three races including the regatta's scheduled seventeen regattas for final competition. However, Ohio the sailing club which finished State's fourth place finish in this fourth in NCAA regional com­last race was enough to give petition last spring. Marek plans to 

Bob Thomas, kicking for the second team in the Spring Game, aims a field goal attempt at the uprights. 
Northwestern, and two weeks from "We're a far better defensive today <Saturday) we'll be playing team now than we were a year our opening game on this field." ago." he said. "There's no question
The Irish coach did find glim­that we're quicker and that we're mers of encouragement reacting better. (Freshmanthroughout the workout. Fullback defensive end Ross) Browner didWayne Bullock gained close to 80 well-it's hard to hide a guy likeyards on the ground. Mike Town­that, and (Jim) Stock, (Mike)send stole four interceptions, and Fanning, and <Steve) Niehaus also two of them set up scores by the looked good.
number one offense. But Par­seghian found the performances of "If there was any bright spot out both defensive teams most en­there today, I'd have to say it was couraging of all. the performance of our defense." 
OBSERVER 
SPORTS 
split his squad for two regattas ·next weekend at Kansas and Eastern Michingan. 
Anyone wishing tojoin the club, which also instructs beginners in sailing, can attend the meeting Wednesday, September 12, in room 204 of the Engineering Building. 
Bulletins 

While the Notre Dame football 
team has entered into final 
preparations for its 1973 season, 
another autumn sport, soccer, is 
embarking on some of its own. The 
Irish Soccer Club will open its 1973 
campaign under the lights on 
Cartier Field this Friday against 
Indiana University. This will mark 
the first time that soccer will be 
played at night much less on the 
new Astroturf field. 
Anyone still interested in joining the soccer team is reminded that practices will be held Monday, Wednesday and Friday behind Stepan Center from 3:30 to 5:30 p.m., and on Tuesday and Thurs­day fromB:OO to 11:00 p.m. on the Cartier Astroturf. No prior ex­perience in the game is necessary. 
Meanwhile, two winter varsity sports have announced preliminary meetings for this week. 
Coach Dennis Stark of the Notre 
Dame swimming team has asked 
that interested students attend a 
Tuesday afternoon meeting at 5:00 
p.m. on the 2nd floor main foyer of the Rockne Memorial. 
New coach Fred Pechek of the Notre Dame wrestling team has set Wednesday at 7:00p.m. as the date for those interested in varsity wrestling. This meeting will be held in the Athletic and Con­vocation Center Auditorium. 






