
~ 
On The Inside 
SB candidates announce ... page 3 
SMC finance series ... page 



serving the notre dame community
Vol. VII No. 80 Wednesday, February 14, 1973 

HPChears grievances of ND black students 
by Jim Eder Staff Reporter 
The Hall Presidents Council last night heard Ken Lee explain a number of the black student grievances that were recently brought before the SLC. . 
Lee told the presidents that black students have found 1t 
difficult to fit into the Notre Dame environment because hall life 
at this university is oriented toward serving only the white 
~tudents. 

"First of all." explained Lt•e. "there are only two black resident assistants on campus at the present time. . 'The uni·.\'ersitv seems to assume that black R.A. 's cannot relate to white students, but that whitt' R.A. 's can relate to black students. This is ab­surd." 
According to Lee there are Jli'Psently six black students applying for resident assistant positions for next year. "f<:\'erv one of them:' he assprted. "is well qualified and would make a fine R.A."
cording to hall population 
Lee also said that hall social activities are geared solely toward the white students. "They are dreamed up by white students and enjoyed by white students. It seems that blacks are being limited to participating only ,in hall sports programs." 
1,ee urged the presidents to speak with the black students in their halls to find out how they feel and to ask for any ~uggestions they might have for improving conditions. 
Another complaint raised by Lee was about the la~k. of P1utestant services provided on campus. "Even though this IS a Catholic university, it is enrolling an increasing number of l'rotestants--tke majority of whom are black--therefore it should aceept the responsibility of providing adequate religious ser­\'ices for them." 
Lee expressed concern over the rising tensions betwe~n black and white students due to the recent flurry of robbenes com­mitted bv blacks from the South Bend area. 
"RPcentlv there seems to be a kind of paranoia among white students upon meeting groups of black students. This attitude l'Ould lead to serious trouble," warned Lee. 
Lt•e said that the proposal brought before the SLC to require all Notre Dame students to take a minority experience course might be very helpful in creating greater understanding bet­\n•en black and white students. 
"It is important." Lee pointed out, "that white students n•alize that although the majority of black students do not want 
(contimwd on page 7) 
Sanctions to be enforced 

SBP election rules set 
by Jim Ferry Staff Reporter 

Campaigning for the office of Student Body PrPsictent will start on Thursday, February 22 at 1;:00 p.m. and will end on Tuesday, February 27 at 2:00a.m .. the Student Government Board of Commissioners decided last night. _ 
Primary elections will be held on the,.Z7th, and if one ticket does not obtain a majority of the \'otes cast then a run-off election will be held Thursday, March I. One day of campaigning (Ft•bruary 28. noon--2:00a.m.> will precede the general election. 
No Ticket To Exceed $150 

Hestrictions concerning election materials and ('Xpenditures were also adopted. Posters may not be Iarger than 11" x 14" and they cannot be placed on "outside walls, plants, or any other exterior areas." 
The only eligible areas for poster display are inside dormitories and "within reason" in public buildings on campus. No "stickum adhesive" can be used for any materials. 
Another restrictiPn stipulates that "no ticket ~hall exceed $150" in campaign expenses. In­ducted in this amount is $200 from Student t;overnment that will be divided equally among the candidates, to be used at Campus Press for printed material pertinent to the campaing. 
Approval prior to printing and presentation of a receipt following printing will be required draw upon the sum. If fewer than four dictates run in the election, maximum credit Campus Press will be $50. 
Possible Election Special 

Each candidate may also be given rqual space iI'~!' 
in an election special. The issue would •••••• published and edited by the Election Committee for release on February 27. An additional $25 will be ad,ded to the spending ceiling of $150 for the two candidates in the general election on March I. 
A petition with 100 different Notre Dame un­dergraduate signatures and ID numbers af-•• firming their desire to see a ticket listed as of-• ficial candidates is required of all candidates. 
Both  members  of  a  ticket  must  be  un-, •..,.  
dergraduates at Notre Dame.  
Petitions  are  now  available  in  the  Student  

c;overnment offices and are due back in the Student Government offices by 5:00 p.m., Tuesday, February 20. 
Possible Sanctions 

Lack of cooperation and-or violation of the t'lection regulations will result in committee sanctions of the guilty candidate. Thesanctions may vary depending upon the severity and intent of the infraction. 
Possiblesanctionsinclude: retraction of some or all credit at Campus Press, making the candidate liable for printing expenses, denial of space in the election special, Judicial Board recommendation. official committee censure or complete disqualification. 
No sanctions will be imposed until they are discussed at a public meeting where all sides are allowed to present their opinions. 
Chairman Dziedzic stated that "Any rule we made is there because we're,going to enforce it." 
The Board of Commissioners empowered the Election Committee to make further rulings as the need arises. 
Commissioners Matt Cavanaugh, Maureen Lathers. Denis m-Manl Etienne, Anthony Abowd. Jim Hunt, Paul Lauch, and Fred Baranowski were present for the meeting. 
The recommendations were presented by the J<:lection Board Chairman, Paul Dziedzic, and were approved by the Board. 
:: 
IfitiiJ 

Dziedzic: "Any rule we made is there because we're going to enforce it." 
•

Women's 
rap sess1on 
by Steven t;arr Staff Reporter 

Notre Dame's Women's Caucus discussed individuality among women and the Women's Liberation movement in general in an hour-long discussion last night in the Women's Center of the Library. 
The discussion proceeded from an analysis of Petronella, a modern fairy tale. in which popular notions of men and women are reversed, and led to con­sideration of the basic philosophical tenets of the Women's Lib movement. 
Members of the Caucus agreed that women should have a choice about how they would like to live their lives. A number of participants noted that women have been programmed for centuries as to how to be most acceptable in a male­dominated society, and have not had the chance to function as individuals. 

Carole Moore, a member of the Steering Committee, believed much of women's liberation today has been only external-­the no-bra look, the absence of shaving, and so on. This, she said, is the result of this programming. 
"The change must come from within. Women must change their own attitudes about themselves," she argued. 
One of these changes, Moore felt, deals with women's plans for the future. Many women do not have any goals set for themselves. and they very complacently allow themselves to be cast in the role of the typical housewife. 
Of great importance, according to Moore. is the encouragement a husband gives his wife toward the development of her talents. 
The group as a whole felt that many women were very suspicious and afraid of Women's Lib ideals. Steering committee mPmber Katy Duffy contended that the homecoming queens, pom-pom girls, and the like. fear liberation because they will lose the security they gain from playing the role designated to them by society. 
It would mean. she noted, that they 
. would have to make a new beginn:ng for themselves as individuals--which w )r)d be :1 very difficult thing to do. 

The "newness" of Women's Lib was also mentioned. In actuality, said Moore, it has been in operation for over one-hundred 
~·ears  in  forms  like  the  suffragette  
movement.  
Many  women  today  have  suffered  

condescension from their peers because they are Women's Libbers. One member of ihe Caucus commented that "Some of the most liberated women are sixty or seventy years old." These women, she sugges'ted. were probably ex-suffragettes in the early part of this centruy. 
Recently. the Women's Caucus presented University Provost Father James T. Burtchaell with a constitution outlining their views. Moore hopes· that this will open new channels with the Ad­ministration so that problems concerning women on campus may be dealt with ef­fectively. 
The Women'sCaucus meets again in the Library lounge at 7:30p.m. Sunday. The discussion group meets regularly on Tuesdays on the main floor of LaFortune at 7 p.m. 
The Caucus Steering Committee, comprised of Carole Moore, Mary Lynn Broe, Alana McGrattan, Lucy Rey, Kitty ~. and Katy Duffy, led last night's 

the observer Wednesday, February 14, 1973 

warld 

briefs 
Detroit--The Ford Motor Company was fined $7 million in the Federal District Court in Detroit on charges that some Ford employees tampered with engines to make them pass federal air pollution standards. The violations occurred in the fall of 1971 and the spring of 1972 when Ford was testing engines for 1973 models to find whether they would meet pollution-control standards. The suit, brought by the . Justice Department. was uncontested by Ford. The fine was one of the largest of its kind. 
Washington--The United States has virtually concluded an agreement with Cuba for the curbing of hijacking of aircraft and ships between the two countries, administration officials said. The an­nouncement followed an unusual, off-hand disclosure by President Nixon to newsmen that three months of indirect Havana-Washington negotiations had been successfully concluded. 
Washington--North Vietnam, in an apparent good will gesture, has agreed to release an additional 20 American prisoners of war within the next few days, the Pentagon announced. The decision to release the prisoners ahead of the anticipated schedule was linked by a Pentagon spokesman to Henry A. Kissinger's visit to Hanoi over the weekend. 
12: 30pm--meeting, inpirg, consumer projects, fiesta lounge, Iafortune. 
4:15pm--reilly lecture, "computational aspects of reaction system simulation" by dr. leon lap;dus, radiation lab room, coffee hour 3-4prn . 
6:30pm -meeting, sailing club, 204 engineering. 6:30pm--ground school, flying irish, Jrd floor o'shag. 7:OOpm--meeting, amateur radio club, clubhouse behind holy cross. 8:OOpm--ice capades, ace, tickets $5, $4, $2.50. 8:15pm--concert, james gold, guitarist, library auditorium, admission $1. 
9: OOpm--meetmg, charismatic prayer meeting, holy cross hall, introduction to charismatic renewal in butler building behind holy cross, Bpm. 
at nd-•mc 



Juniors set Yleekend for 
by Jim Lindsay Staff Reporter 

Saturday's twenty-first annual .Junior Parents Weekend will sponsor career opportunity program to provide students and parents with information regar­ding job opportunities in the \'arious majors. 
A new addition to the Junior Parents Weekend activities, the program is designed "to aid juniors 111 selecting firms or graduate schools to which they might apply," said program l'hairman Jim Clarke. A com­mittee consisting of Clarke, junior Chris Singleton and Mr. Richard Willemin of the Placmement Bureau organized the program. 
<'Iarke points out that although the presentations are primarily intended for juniors and their 
Black women to visit ND on three spring weekends 
by George Adela Staff Reporter 

As the result of a group working on the Coed Weekend Exchange Program. arrangements hav11 hC'en made for black women from different campuses to visit Notre Dame on three different occasions this semester. 
Ann Williams. a minority l'ounselor who is coordinating the project. explained that the idea of inviting black women to visit the l'ampus arose out of a group working together last semester, hut the actual plans for inviting women came about after recent meetings with the SLC concerning black social life on the campus. Williams, who is also a law student statl'd the "besides helping the fl'ilows to have a better social life, inviting women to visit the school would improve communication 
PRE-CANA 
Notre Dame and St. Mary's students who are interested in participating in this year's Pre-Cana discussions may sign up in the Campus Ministry Office or by phone (6536). Registration closes March 7. 
Discussions will be on March 25th, April 1st and April 8th. 
Sponsored by Campus Ministry 
l----------------------------1 
parents. all interested students areinvited to attend. 
Presentations for the colleges of Arts and Letters. Science and Engineering will take place in the LaFortune Student Center from tO:OOam to 3:00 p.m. Represen­tatives from all Arts and Letters departments will be located in the second floor ballroom. 
Science and Engineering representatives will be found in the main lobby. These presentations will consist of informal discussions 
among  faculty  members,  the  
student and his  parents.  
The  College  of  Business  Ad­ 

ministration will hold a general presentation for students and par·ents at I :OOpm in Room 122 of the Hayes-Healy Center. Dean Vincent H. Raymond will discuss l'areer possibilities for the student majoring in business. 
with other campuses and would 
later on serve to aid in recruit­
ment." 
Fifty women have been invited for the Freshman Valentine Dance this weekend February 17-18. Other weekends which have been set aside for black women visitors include March 24-25 and April 14. Williams further stated that plans for next semester include inviting women up to five times during the fall term. 
When asked about the idea of busing large numbers of women to the campus being comparable to a "cattle exposition," Williams replied that she didn't have any strong feelings about it either way. "The purpose of having women \'isitors is to expand social ac­tivities here on campus," she stated "and to cut down on the miles spent driving to other campuses." 
Clark: Career program "to aid juniors in selecting firms or graduate schools." 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the L'niversity of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Sub­scriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester (14 per year) from The Db­server, l~ox Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

THE SAVINGS CONTINUE! 
Our Mid-Winter Savings Event Rolls On. 
SPECIAL VALUE 
CORD 
FLARES 




$6.90 
From a very famous maker 
choose from 5 new colors i~ 
these most-wanted cord· 
styles. Stock up. 
PAY NEXT SUMMER 
Wear and enjoy your apparel now and pay next June, July and August with no carrying charge of any kind added. Easy! 
L 
{9 persons per table) 
TODAY (5:00-6:00) Dining Halls 
.. 

BOW TIESI We've got 'em I 
We invite you in to see and save on a' wide variety of university-styled ap­parel...double knit suits and sport coats, shirts, sweaters, sportswear. sub coats, flannel shirts. jackets, CPO'S and many more items. You'll find great savings on a fine selection of apparel. 
WHAT'S NEW? 

ON THE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAME 

Wednesday, February 14, 1973 
the observer 
Candidates announce platforms 
by Pattz Shea Although Kersten's ad-bemg a black student at white
1ev1ew of faculty tenure m their 
Staff Reporter mmistration has been essentially a umversity, liVed on and presently
platform
JOke he has proved that the off campus have gone from
Moskowitz, who belonged to the 
Pledgmg Improvement of Idealistic programs set up by academic probation to the dean's
mee Club, WSND and The Ob­
student social life and more student governments of the past list"
server staffs, stressed that his 
student participatiOn m decislOn­\\ere not Important or even personal expenences made him Clemency, a Grace Hall makzng at Notre Dame, Joe necessary" 'the most qualified candidate for resident, emphasized the need for Moskowitz a JUnior speech and In addition to calhng for a SBP" cooperation m the position of VIce­drama maJor and Bob Clemency, re\ampmg of the SLC and HPC to 'Although I have no student president "Student government 
sophomore pre-med maJOr an provide better communication government experience," he said, \\ orks when people can work 
nounced the start of their cam '' 1thm the student body, Clemency "I have visited many other together, rlividmg up the pa1gn for SBP last mght m called for a change m the m loco campuses I have experienced responsibilities and work load " 

parentzs policy of the umvers1ty .Jdmimstratwn 
LaFortune Our mam goal IS to change 
student social life " Moskowitz 'As college students, I thmk we 
stated 'Notre Dame has plenty of 
are responsible enough to handle mtellectual actiVIties but not 
our o\\ n lives " commented Clemency Both candidates ad­\ ocated an mvestigation of student parietal hours and the umvers1ty's policv on off-campus livmg 
Clemency Cited the recent ruhng that temale students must hve on campus as mfrmgement on the equal nghts of students "There IS def1mteh a double standard and deception here " Morow1tz added, 
when girls are told they have the same regulatiOns and then cannot 11\e off campus" 
l\loskowhz and Clemency also nH'ntiOned more mmonty recrmtmg better relatiOns bet­" een the South Bend and Notre Dame commumtles, ehmmation of dass cut policy and student 
Clemency and Moskowztz mam goalzs soc1al hfe lnPIRG meets 
ITIIIDii·IIIIIMIDIIIIIIIIIIH'IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIDIIUIUIUIIUDUIU.OIIHIIUOIDUIDftiU~ 


in La Fortune 
Co-Ex Schedule 
The Indiana Public Interest Research Group Will meet today 2-14 --Mornssey, Cavanaugh, Holy Cross ,11 12 30 m the I<'zesta Lounge of 
I ,!Fortune The purpose of the
2-15 --Flanner, Walsh, Old College 
nwetmg 1s to begm a senes of
2-16 --D•llon, Farley, Badin 
consumer action pro1ects said
2-17 --Keenan, Lyons, Breen-Phillips 
.John Bachmann 1nPIRG co­
2-18 --Grace, Fisher Ol dmator 2-19 Stanford, Howard, Sorin, St. Ed's l\ls l\larcv Wmns of the St 2-20 Morrissey, Cavanaugh, Holy Cross .Joseph Country Office of Human 
Dt>\ elopment will be present to aid IIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 m the orgamzatiOn 
ABBEY IS HAPPY 
to announce our new budget motel in 
South Bend. Lovely rooms at low cost. $10.00 single $12.50 double Friendly happy atmosphere·· 
Send your friends and relatives 
@ 
ABBEY INNS OF AMERICA 52825 US 31 N South Bend, Indiana 46637 
(219) 272-9000 (next to the Boars Head) 



Observer 
News Staff Meeting 
Regular, short business meeting Tonight 7:00pm Lafortune 2·0 
THE OBSERVER 
Crasslakes 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
John Abowd Dan Thornton 


Massacre
Editor-in-Chief Business Manager
NEWS: 283"1715 EDITORIALS: 283-8661 Don Ruane BUSINESS: 283-7471 Joe Butler Executive Editor Advertising Manager i jiiSIIph at.ll 
Wednesday, February 14, 1973 



The Black Proposals 
The blacks at Notre Dame have been in necessity. The university has actively the news . consistently in the past week recruited a substantial number of non­fighting for changes in the way things are Catholic students and it seems that the atND. Their proposals have ranged from university has a responsibility to supply the probable to the necessary to the those students with proper religious unfounded. Last night Ken Lee spoke to services if they do want it. Lee's com­the HPC and offered some necessary ments indicate that it is desired. It would changes and leveled an unfounded be difficult to supply a variety of services charge. but a non-demoninational protestant 
service could easily be arranged. The Necessary The Unfounded 
A very important fact that Lee offered was that there are only two black R.A.s Lee also spoke to the gearing of hall on campus--a figure roughly propor­activities to whites only. As he presented tionate to the number of blacks here, but it, Lee placed the blame on the whites-­hardly enough to handle ·the blacks as that they didn't .go out and solicit black they are distributed across campus. help and suggestions. Alumni, the hall with the second hightsst From all appearances, it is not the concentration of blacks on campus, does responsibility of the halls to solicit black not have a black R.A. \ Despite signs of aid. All of the halls are o'perated on a hope about improving relations between voluntary basis. Students volunteer· to blacks and whites at ND1,. the black ex­run food sales, organize parties, and co­perience at ND is unique, something that ordinate hall activities. They are not a white R.A..911finot comprehend or recruited. understand. A white R.A. is really of no If there is no black input in hall ac­value to a black, particularly a black tivities now one cannot expect these freshman. A black R.A. can bettercope activities to be geared towards blacks.It with the "problems of a young black here thus becomes the responsibility of the and that is the kind of a ssis ta nee that the blacks on campus to see that there is university should provide. black input into hall activities. That's the 
This year Lee reports that 6 blacks only way the situation can possibly have applied for Resident Assistant change. But the responsibility for positions. If their credentials are as good initiative lies with them, not with the hall as he suggests, the university would do officers. well to hire them all, placing two in Dillon, one in Alumni and the remaining Sorting out three where they are needed. 
As long as the university is already Lee's proposals will probably not carry hiring Resedent Assistants, the hiring of a great deal of weight with them, but the black ones would not be an added expense university will be making a serious error as would the hiring of black)Counselors. if they do not consider what the man has 
said. Notre Dame is attempting to enter 
A second idea that Lee forwarded is an era of good relations with blacks. and extremely important and it breaks an some of last night's proposals are ancient Notre Dame religious tradition. necessary if ND is to proceed any farther. The time has come when protestant services on campus are becoming a Jerry Lutkus 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUUIDIIIUIIUO 
daan..bury 
r:~arry trudeau 
the observer 
Night Editor: Jack Frichkorn 

Ass't Night Editor: Susan Predergast 
Resident Artist: Albert D'Antonio 
Night Controller: Bob Steinmetz I 
Typists: Dave Rust, Howard Halle, John Flannigan, Diane Chermside, Bullet 
Assorted Rabble: Jerome, Redman, Dan, Rock, Carole. M.Z.' Lefty 
Sports Night Editor: James W. Donaldson 
HVD Patti 
A Hairy Hello to Nerd City 
Meet us at 4 for a Fireside 
Valentine Surprise. 
Anne X. 

Cat: love and understanding are whals needed. 


"Wait a minute, please," the man with three stripes on his shoulder 
said. 

The group of four came to a quick halt before a large newsstand in 
the middle of the lobby. The man with the stripes broke away from the 
others and walked up to a small rack of greeting cards, scanning the 
few remaining rows of bright red cards. He reached out and selected a 
small. rectangular card with a tiny pink heart at the top and an image 
of a small angel with a bow at the bottom. 

The man looked up at the others and grinned foolishly. The others smiled politely and waited as the man paid for the card. "I don't care if I'm a few days late," the man said to no one in particular. "I want to bring her something." 
They walked through the automatic doors and into a waiting car in the small drive outside. Overhead, countless jets and small planes were buzzing the control tower. A monstrous 747 airliner dwarfed the smaller planes for a moment as it almost drifted across the field to the t-nd of the runway, finally lifting its ponderous bulk into the air, missing telephone wires by seeming inches. 
"Now those 'II take a while to get used to," the man with the stripes said in awe. 
The car turned left after passing a large statue of Icarus that marked the entrance to the airport. Travelling down the wacky road that circled the field while at the same time turning into dozens of other roads, the car wove in and out of traffic like a jammer in a roller derby. 
The man with the stripes leaned back in his seat, and closed his eyes, sending his thoughts both backward and forward as he had done an infinity of times before, back to the last few incredible days and for­ward to the appointment he had in less than twenty minutes, an ap­pointment for which he had been waiting for nearly five years. 
She said she'd moved, he thought for the nth time. I guess she really had.to. Not really sure those Preston Village apartments are the best for her and Scott, but she said it was the best she could do. He shifted in the car seat. That'll sure change now, he resolved. 
He shifted his position again and his memory went back to the cafeteria in the Philippines where he had eaten that first meal. He smiled unconsciously at the thought of all that steak and potatoes available just for the asking. And ask he did! They had never seen a man go through so much food and then stuff three ice cream sundaes on top of it aiL He regretted that that kind of living was over for now, but a sort of warm feeling, ( · "Warm's" too corny for what it is, he thought> flowed over him when he thought of the kind of living that was ahead. 
Even if it wasn't spectacular, Jennie's food was good, at least what he could remember of it. But that wan't really the important thing, no, not at aiL It was that Jennie would be cooking it. For him. And that she and Scott would eat it with him. 
Scott. My God, he realized once more, he must be almost six years old! 
The tiny baby whose picture he had carried as long as it had held together would be greatly changed by now. What's he going. to be like? he wondered anew. Will he even know who I am? He thought again how he could go about making up five years, a five years critical to a child. He didn't know if he could. 
The car's driver inched a cigarette out of his pocket and slipped it 
between his lips. He punched the lighter and the man next to him 
leaned over and whispered something in his ear. He removed the 
cigarette and the lighter snapped out unheeded. 

The man with three stripes shifted his position and folded his arms. More thoughts shot through his head, thoughts he had known before, thoughts he didn't like to think. Thoughts of a blind progression of steel bars and desolate tunnels and dirty huts. Thoughts of continual proddings and humiliations and debasements. Thoughts of no par­ticular order, but a totally random sequence of unthinkable and un­understandable events and reactions. They raced and blurred in his mind, finally resulting in a single crystallization: that those things were over, that his life was no longer a nightmare, but a pleasant dream. And he smiled. 
The car pulled up before a two-story apartment building and two of the other men had left the car before his mind returned to the present. He pulled up the door handle and swung his legs out. 
"I want to thank you guys for all you've done," he offered his hand to the nearest who quietly took it. "We'll be in contact with you," another told him and the three disappeared into the car. 
The man with the stripes walked into the building and found the right door after consulting a small white scrap of paper in his pocket. He knocked hesitantly. 
The door swung open to reveal a small, dark young woman with a child playing behind her. "Jennie, oh, Jennie!" he rushed in and hugged her tighter than he could ever remember. "Welcome home, Jake," he heard weakly, smothered between his hugs and tears. 
"Mommy, is that Daddy?" 

The woman broke away and moved to the couch and silently wat­ched as the man with the stripes picked up the child and pressed him to his face. "It sure is, Scotty," he said.His tears came again. "It sure is." Carrying the child, he walked over and sat next to the woman on the couch. She said nothing, but looked at the floor and fidgeted with her 
~~-. 

"Hey," he said, l·it'ting her chin with his middle' finger, "It's all right now, honey; it's all right." , 
She looked at him and her eyes watered. .She wiped them and smeared a bit of make-up in catching the onl! tear that escaped her eyelids. Regaining her composure, she sat st.J'aight up. Now dry-eyed, she faced him fully. 
"I have to tell it to you now, Jake," she sqid, and looked down again. "I've filed for a divorce. It's just been too long." She turned away !'rom him and buried her face in her hands. 
The man with three stripes slowly stood up and walked to the door. He fingered the small valentine in his pocket and pulled the door open. Out of the street, he looked up and down the sidewalk and began to walk. He had to find something else to think about. 
r 

The ISIS Gallery spring exhibition opened Saturday with a display of graphics, such as these, from the Herron Art Institutelofiindianapolis. The presentation, which runs until March.JO, features engravings, lithography, photo silkscreen, etchings, and photo lithography. The art gallery is located in the northwest corner of the F~eldhouse. Information concerning the show can be obtamed from Carolann Carter or Chris Gregory in the art department. 
(Staff photos by Jim Hunt.) 


no more bracelets 

Thomas Wolfe once said you can't go home again. The POW's of the Vietnam War are trying to do just that. They're coming home. But I wonder what "home" is going to be like for those men, some of whom have been in captivity for more than eight years. 
The first American pilot was captured in August. 1964. I was 12 years old in August, 1964. A lot has happened in this country since then. I want to say that the shock of returning to the States won't be quite so bad for the men who have been prisoners for "only" two or three years as it will be for the prisoners of seven or eight years. But it's a \'Ulgar thing to say. Three years in captivity is a sin. Eight years is an obscenity. 
When that first captured pilot left for Vietnam. he left a country that seemed to be entering a golden age. Great strides were being made in the area of civil rights. The Peace Corps was a growing source of pride. Man was headed toward the moon. The Cold War was coming to an end. The word "Vietnam" was virtually non-existent in the minds of Americans. And radio stations blared the sounds of "She loves you! Yea, yea. yea!" People were happy. 
That first POW was released Monday and when he returns to "the world" he will find a home quite different from the United States of August. 1964. The events of eight years 
steve magdzinski 
have been compiled into a neat little sum­mary which will be given to the prisoners on their return. It is eight years condensed into 10 minutes 10f reading. Bobby Kennedy is dead. Martin Luther King is dead. And the death of the civil rights movement was made official by the "resignation" of Fr. Hesburgh from the Civil Rights Com­mission. The POW's may feel lucky they survived the war. Four students at Kent State did not. The riots, student and racial, from Watts to Chicago, have come and gone. Man has landed on the moon more times than I can remember. And he's not even going back. Hard drugs have become a national disease. The prisoners may be home. but they may never again venture safely outside their homes at night. Perhaps the only thing that hasn't changed in eight vears is that the Bruins of UCLA are still winning national championships. 
There are no heroes of the Vietnam War" But perhaps the POW's come closest to being heroes, not merely for what they have already gone through, but for what they must go through in the months ahead with their families and their country. I wish them luck. And I hope for their sake Thomas Wolfe was wrong. 
One more thing: I'm glad to see the bracelets coming off. 


Wednesday, February 14, 1973 the observer 
Financial lectures continue says When it comes to piOftC)S, we wilt do just about anything. , 
VanderWilt speaksat SMC 



by Kathy Hessert Staff Reporter 

The Federal Reserve System held the spotlight last night in a lecture by Carl E. Vander Wilt, Assistant Vice-President and Economist of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. Vander Wilt spoke on "Income, Credit, and Their Uses," the second of a twelve part series sponsored b~ Sa~nt Mary's College in cooperatiOn With St. Joseph's Bank and Trust Company. 
During the period between 1967 and 1968 the Federal Reserve Svstem had an expansionary n1onetary policy with an annual increase of 7.6 percent. Vander Wilt attributes this to building up for the Viet Nam conflict. 
Taking it in its historical context he sees the post World War II period between 1948 and 1968 as expansionary and ~fte~ the l~t.er part of 1968 our natiOn m a CriSIS. 
"In 1969 we had an unpallatable l'Onsumer prices increase of 6.1 percent" Vander Wilt said. "lnflati~n doesn't hurt anyone if we anticipate it. Everything icreases proportionally and is eompensated for in some way." 
Vander Wilt feels that unex­
pected variable inflation is what 
hurts the populace primarily with 
its increase, in the unemployment 
rates. 
On February 10, 1970 the 
F.O.M.C. retarded its ex­pansionary monetary pol!cy. In late 19()9 the monetary mcrease was 5.2 percent. The beginning of Hl70 showed an increase of .6 percent resulting in a yearly average of 3 percent. 
"With a slower annual rate of 
monetarv increase, people won't 
have an incentive to spend 
money," Vander Wilt says. 
"Unless the Federal Reserve 
Svstem slows down its ex­
pimsionary policy, we will agai~ 
see inflation in late-1973 or 1974.' 
"They are finally getting their 
heads together; if they continue in 
this vein we ma~· be able to ward 
off a possible mmi-recession." 
The twelve-part series, entitled 
"All You Ever Wanted to KNow 
About Finance...and Now Can 
Ask." functions as an aid to better 
understanding the financial 
aspects of daily life according to 
Dr. F. Muwakki, St. Mary's 
cnafrman of the Economics and 
Business Department. 
Vander Wilt discussed 
the 
elements and potency of the 
expansionary policy. 
Federal Reserve System by giving 
its breakdown into the Board of (;overnors, Federal Reserve Board, the Federal Open Market Committee, Advisory Committee and Member Banks. 
Of the 14,000 banks int lie United States, less than half are members of the F.R.S. The 67,000 larger eommunity banks which are members hold approximately 80 percent of all bank deposits. 
Vander Wilt contended that the 
F.O.M.C. was the mos~ powerful. 

t•conomic policy-determm!_ngb~dy m term interest rates will below the 
the United States. Vander Wilt was also of the opinion that Arthur Burns, present chairman of the seven-man Board of Governors, and voting member of the 
F.O.M.C. was a very powerful component of that body. 
"The concern of the F.O.M.C. is deliberating about the national PCOnomic state, its future and 
research in that field. It also determines policy for a five-week interim." Vander Wilt stated. 
Vander Wilt then explained the money transfer system in the United States and dwelled upon the system's policy improvements. He noted inefficiency in the check 
payment system. There is a usual time lag of four or five days involved in the trans­
fer of funds." he said. "The check writer mav like this, but the Federal Reserve System is developing techniques in which the check in the hands of the first bank of deposit arrives at the second bank on the following business day to accelerate the transfer of fund-
funds." . A regional check proccessmg center has been implemented in Iowa and one was recently ap­proved for Indianapolis, Indiana. 


SU to finalize Nassau trip 
by Jim Rosini Staff Reporter 
The Student Union Services Commission will meet tonight at Rpm in 104 O'Shaughnessy with students still interested in the Nassau trip over spring break. 
An airline representative will attend to answer any questions concerning the trip and to quote prices for motor-bikes, boa~ and skin-diving equipment available for rental in Nassau. 
Monte Kearse, Student Tran­
sportation Commissioner, hope~ to 
··pin the charter representative down tonight to the exact details that we expect from him on our 
trip." 
Kearse also said that there are still seats avilable on the flight to leave Detroit on March 9 and return March 16. Monte urged more students to sign up for what he called, "a real deal for you." 
The trip will cost $189 which includes round-trip bus service from the Notre Dame circle to DPtroit and breakfast every day at the Montagu Beach Hotel in Nassau. 
IntPrested students can sign up 
at the Notre Dame ticket office 
during office hours today. 


NASSAU 
Final Sign·ups & Payments Wed 2·14 8:00 pm 104 O'Shag 
Charter Co. Rep. will be there to answer all questions 
Plane Seats are lllllng rapidly • so hurry over to reserve one on the tall 
Hecently. experiments have 
If w. can't 110 It, we will try to find been made with an Electronic 
someone who dOes. 

Funds Transfer Ststem in which the customer carries a card. The Call me now for an owner of this card memorizes his 
appointment 674·9335

four digital number, and that card and number coupled with the machine of the proprietor, ac­tivates the system. 


tPiano Pete'' 

A descriptive monthly balance is then forwarded to the account 
u.s. 20 Osceola, lndlarilt

holder. This system was devised to eliminate or cut back the amount of actual money transactions and 
Quality Tuning and Repairing

costly check processing. 
"Some day in the not so far future. we may have a 'checkless' society. It will be possible to switch to a system in which evervone will carry a magnetically 
SPAIN coded card using electrons, op­posed to paper currency," Vander
Wilt said. 
CHI/MALAGA/CHI

According to Vander Wilt the national economy now seems impressive. The gross national 
Leave March 11 Return March 19 
product rate, has increased 2.1 per cent in 1971 and 5 to 7 percent in the beginning of 1973. The national 
See the Costa del Sol

t•conomy growth rate is rapidly increasing. It averages 4.3 to 4.5 percent annually. 
With this G.N.P. increase, $249 plus$25 tax Vander Wilt says we will also find 
the unemployment rate in 1973 Sign up today at Rm. 104 O'Shag 8:00 pm down to 5.1 percent and the long 
ies un buen idea I ~ 

rates of a few years ago. 
Vander Wllt then traced the important economic developments of the past four or five years ex­pressing the public's apparent insatiable demand for money. 

CLASSFIED ADS

C. z
lfe reaSOnS 1.0r
ND BJ k U .

ac nouse 

(continued from page 1) 
students do not want either ex­
NOTICES

cessive segregation or integration tactics. they do want to preserve­
Pandora's Books Is On The Move 
New store at South Bend Ave. & . St. Louis -Across from Rocco's · 
their identity as blacks. 
"The formation of a Black House 
watch for our super.sale.
would be ideal for this purpose. It would provide black students with 
Worl on Volkswagons · 11 years experience. Call 272·2765 or after
a place to conduct the socia.l a~: 
six, call 272-3980.
tivities that they are now lackmg, he continued. 
FOR INFORMATION ABOUT 
In other business before the 
THE GAY AWARENESS COMMUNITY, CALL 7789
HPC. Student Government 
W+TH+F+ 8-10 pm.
Research and Development Commissioner Bob Maykuth an­
A BETTER CHOICE IS LIFE FOR THE UNBORN CHILD ­CONTACT BIRTHRIGHT, INC. 
nounced that plans to revise the 
coexchange program have been 
IN SOUTH BEND, P.O. BOX 824
finalized. Coex tickets will now be 
OR CALL 289.1034. 
distributed according to the 
Before you buy a diamond learn
poptllation of the halls. 
all the facts it may save you a
"This means," said Maykuth, 
great deal. Call James 3118.
·•that the larger halls will be receiving more tickets and the 
JUNIORS: Sign up today for your yearbook portraits today in
smaller halls less." Another 
La Fortune student center, room 
revision calls for a seven-day cycle 
2C. between 9:1 & 2·6. 
to replace ~he old-elevenday cycle 
Crypt Records Free Delivery
for distributing the tickets. The 
On stock: New Elton John and 
new schedule will allow Notre 
Traffic only $3.92. Open 1·6 in­
Dame students to eat at St. Mary's 
cluding Sundays. Closed Tuesday.
on a variety of days. HPC Executive Coordinator 
New age of decadence invites you
Steve Jesselnick announced that 
to THE HUDDLE BALL, Friday, 
February 16, 9:00-?.
this Thursday there will be a 
meeting in the Breen-Philips 
LOST AND FOUND
Chapel at 7 p.m. for those people interested in working on the plans Found: 1 watch in a locker at the ~"or An Tostal Weekend. 
rock. To claim, call 1436 and give description. 
YOUr 
Lost: Ford car keys in Flanner 
concession lobby. Call Bob 1073.
Auto Parts Hqs. 
Found: NO class ring. Call and identify. T & TH, 9-11 am, 234­
THE RIDGE CO. 
Edison & Ironwood 

0330.
(near campus) 2319 E. Edison Rd. 

Lost: Part collie, all tan male KEY CHAIN 
dog. Please call 233·3893 or 7471. Reward.
Unique key chain made with a qenuine champion model engine spark. plug. Rhodium plated. 
Lost: Watch, Feb. 2, between 0·1 and Stanford. lnitialed-W.T.R. 
To first 100 persons with 111. Reward. Call Bill 87.02.
FREE 
this advertisement (no purchase Found: pair gold wi,re-rims, necessary) 
black case at 121 O'Sh. Rob 8695. 
Found: tan girls scarf. Found in Sec. 103 at LaSalle game. Call 8892 . Jim. 
PERSONALS 

Of:\,erver Stiff, celebrate ev.ybody's blrthdly. Clkeln the office Feb. 14. love. Mom 
Atilla: your Huns will hang from our belts. The boys 
Joe Tulane: Sorry Ukrair.e Karen 9 days in Spain and Paris, $279 plus tax and service. Call Chris · 291·1741. 
Mar -· para siempre, contodo mi amor. Mickey 
Hey Grit! Now that 1 own 34's of Indiana Bell we're gonna be rich some day. 
FOR RENT 
Rooms & kitchen. Near. $40 mo. 
'.33-1329. 
FOR SALE 
1969 Opel Rallye, 1900 engine, yellow, standard, excellent condition, 33,500 miles, $1100, call 234-7849. 
Electric golf cart with charger $150.00, Call 1127 9-12 am. 
WANTED 
Need tide to Chicago or O'Hare Thursday around noon, 1244. 
Need ride to St. Louis Feb. 16, call Don 1596. 
Need ride to St. Louis. Fri. Feb. 16, will share expenses. Call Steve 1817. 
Ride needed to Cincinatti this weekend. Call Molly 4902. 
Need ride to Wooster Feb. 23, call 1360 or 1259. 
Need ride to Cleveland area, weekend of Feb. 16. Urgent. Ray 3683. 
2guys need ride to Miami Fla.• on March 7. Will share driving ex­penses. Call Pete 8810. 
Graduate's wife babysits. Lives near campus. Call 287·1222. 
Lost: Ladies gold watch. Great sentimental value. Reward. Call 5434. 
There will be a combined meeting of the GSU, SBA, Women's Rights Association, & Student Members of the ASAC, to further discuss the proposed sanctions of the Graduate Disciplinary Code on Fri. 12 noon, Feb. 16 in 127 NSH. 
All grads welcome! 

... 
Wednesday, February 14, 1973
the observer 

ND trackmen show improvement 
by fom McKenney not among the top nine in the 
competition but. as it turned out, As the indoor track season Don Opal, John Duffy, Mike reaches middle age the Notre (;ahagan and Mike Housely 
Dame thinclads are achieving covered the two-and-a-half mile maturity after a slow start. 
distance in a time of 10:06. The It was last weekend at the 
three ..quarter mile split time of 
Spartan Helays that the Irish 2:58 by Gahagan led the effort andbt>gan improving their perfor­prompted Faley to say, "It was one mances. In the words of head of the finest splits I have ever seen,coach Don Faley, "The team and perhaps one of the best everreally came alive." 
for a Notre Dame man."

An.Pxceptional effort by the Irish distance medley team sparked the Notre Dame's showing enabled rejuvPna lion. Faley had place the the Irish to win the second heat. quartet in the second heat of the Faley was also impressed with Pvent lwcause its entry time was performances of some of his 

The Irish Eye 

Hichard Nixon's multi-phase program for the rejuvenation of the nation's Pconomy after the mini-recession of '70-'71 has been the object of l'Onsiderable attention and study at college campuses across the land. 
Sonw critics have praised the plan, others have condemned it. At Notre Dame. it's been suggested that Mr. Nixon spend less time phoning coaches to providethemwithquestionableadviceand, instead, solicit help from Irish basketball coach Richard "Digger" Phelps. 
The final judgement has yet to come in on Nixon's economic master­minding. but anyone who's watched the progress of Phelps' program for the rejuvenation of Notre Dae's basketball fortunes after the depression of '71-;72 has voiced praise for the transplanted genius of Rose Hill and his sophomnre-dominated team. 
After losing 20 of 26 games last season and six ~f the _fir~t seven this vear. the Irish began Phase I of Phelps' program m the1r first game of ·1973. I<'ive straight wins followed and Notre Dame climbed to 6-6. 
Losses to Duquesne, Illinois and UCLA preceded the onset of Phase II. I<'acing a "must-win" situation against Villanova, in Philadelphia's Palestra. the Irish responded with a convincing, 82-66 triumph. Home court victories over Xavier, Butler, Michigan State and LaSalle followed and the Irish. winners of 10 of their last 13 games, raised their record to 11-9. 
Now Notre Dame's hoop fans are awaiting the start of Phase III, which Pncompasses road games against Fordham -in Madison Square Gar­den ---. Duke. West Virginia and nationally ranked St. John's and is considered by Phelps to be the most critical portion of the Irish schedule. 
It's no secret that Phelps and the Irish are looking for a post-season berth in the National Invitational Tournament and the results of their l'Pmaining six. games will be an important determining factor for the NIT sP!ection rommittee. 
... "We could possibly end up in the NIT,"Phelps says, "Based on how we do in our next six games. I think they might take us with a 14-12 record." 
Notre Dame need only win three more games to reach that mark, but that might be cutting it a bit close. Fifteen victories would seem to alleviate to any doubts about post-season activity. however. 
HPgardless nf whether or not 14 or 15 wins is the magic number, there's little doubt that a victory over Fordham, where Phelps achieved basketball fame two years age, must be included in that total. The NIT is held in the Garden and the tourney selectors are s11re to be watching. A win in the Big Town may earn the Irish a return invitation. A loss could \\'t'll mean that Notre Dame's season will end March 3 against South Carolina in the ACC. 
"I'm very happt tohe in the position we're in right now,"Phelps says. "Wp've c1me off a 6-20 season to be competitive with everyone. I think it's an outstanding achievement for the players." 
"Now we have a shot at a tournament," PhPlps continued. "The kids know'what they have to do and they know it can be done. We've gained a lot confidence in recent weeks. We showed how we've matured against 1\lichigan State. It'd be tremendous if we could get into the NIT." 
Notre Dame's recent play has phased almost everyone that's seen thPm. Now. if they can only impress the right people in New York ..... 
The idea of several thousand wild Irishmen running aroung the Garden and city the weekend of St. Patrick's day is almost beyond belief. Then again.hefore.the season started. so was the idea of Notre Dame being in a tournament this year. 
Whatever the dollar's worth these days, it might be good economic policy to put some down on the Irish chances for the NIT. 
KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS 
STEAK DINNER 
Sunday Feb. 18 4 pm Members $1.50 Guests $2.50 
Sign-up in Council TV Room by Thursday Noon 
.· ounger runners, especially fresh­nwn Jim Hurt. Joe Yates and Len l\1oty. Hurt has recorded a 4:14 dTort in the mile run while, in that same l'Vent. Yates has improved his time from 4:30 to 4:15. 
l\1oty anchored the Irish mile relay team at East Lansing and turned in a 51.8 clocking. It was the first time for Moty in collegiate competition and Faley was very high on his performance under prC'ssure. 
Ont• of Notre Dame's more Pstablished runners, captain Tom 1\ll'Mannon. collected a fourth placC' in the 70-yard high hurdles and anchored the Irish shuttle 
WCHA 

standings 
Pts  Pts  Pis  
W  L  T  Wn  Lost  Rem.  GF­ 
GA  

Denver .........18 6 0 40 18 18 112 70 Wisconsin ...... 15 6 I 37 19 18 106 81 Michigan Tech .12 8 0 36 24 12 105 70 Michigan State .12 6 I 35 15 22 91 83 Notre Dame ....14 8 0 34 22 16 118 93 Minnesota ...... 9 10 3 29 31 12 80 80 North Dakota .. II 12 I '1:1 33 12 99 114 Mlnn.-Duluth ... 11 II 0 2fl 2fl 20 103 101 Colo. College.. 3 19 0 10 42 20 85 135 Michigan ........ 3 21 0 8 50 14 94 148 WEEKEND RESULTS 
Notre Dame S.8, Colorado College 3-6 Wisconsin 5-6, Michigan State 2-4 MiMesota 3-5, North Dakota 2-1 (first game ot) Minn.·Duluth 7-9. Michigan 5-8 (se· cond game ot) Michigan Tech 6-1. Denver H WEEKEND SERIES Notre Dame at Michigan St!lte (4 points) Minn.·Duluth at Wisepnsin (8 points) Michigan Tech at North Dakota (4 points) Michigan at Minnesota (4 points) Denver-Colorado College (Thurs. at Denver. Sat. at CC) 
hish Statistics 

Gms G A Pts P·M Bumbacco,w .. 28 35 33 68 16-32 Williams, w . . . 25 26 24 50 23-46 Noble,c.... 23 Ui 31 47 111-23 Regan,c . . 28 15 24 39 22·60 DeLorenzi,w ........ '1:1 17 18 35 13·29 Conroy,c .... 28 6 14 20 11-19 Green,d . .. .. . 28 2 16 18 15-30 CUIT)',d ................ 'l:l 4 1317 26-55 Nyrop,d ............... 28 2 14 16 15-30 Schafer, w ............. 28 7 7 14 13·34 Israelson, w ............ 23 9 5 14 5-10 Steinborn,d ............ 25 3 10 13 5-10 Dunphy,w ............. '1:1 2 8 10 6-12 
D. Howe,w ............ 14 4 5 9 3-6 Larson,d ............. 28 I 6 7 5-10 Novitzki,w ........... 2fl 2 0 2 2: 4 Maison, w. . . . .. . . .. .. .. 4 I I 2 II-0 Tardanl,w ............. 2fl 0 I I 2· 4 Cunha,c · ........ 4 0 I I 1-2 Keating.w ............ 12 0 I I 5-18 Bonk,d . . .. .. . 7 0 0 · 0 II-0 Byers,w ............... 3 0 0 0 II-0 Augustine,w ........... 2 0 0 0 II-0 
Notre Dame Totals 28 152 232 384 1rl5-434 Opppnent Totals .. 28 138 195 333 189-405 Power Play Goals -ND 39 of 125 
(31.2 per cent); OPP 29 of 98 (29.6 per 
cent) Shorthanded Goals -NO 6, OPP 3 Goalteaders Gms GA Avg. Saves 
Kronholm . . . . . .... 21,5 92' 4.28 645 Cathcart .. . . .. . 6.5 44' 6.11 208 
J'lotre Dame Totals 28 136' 4.86 853 Opponent Totals .... 28 150' 5.36 885 'Does not include open net goals. 

(formerly of the Temptations) and The Realistics 
·Saturday Feb. 24 
·10: 30 p.m. (following the high school sectionals) 
·Tickets: $3.50, $4.50 ·Available at: 
Pandora's Books and Morris Civic Auditorium 219 N. Michigan Downtown, South Bend 
232-6954 

hurd~ relay team which was seconds in the final heat, but alsoTourth, 
registered their best effort in the The Irish almost decided to skip prelims where they turned in a the shuttle event early last week t iml' of :10.2 seconds. when three of the regular shuttle This weekend the Irish will relay runn<>rs were out with illness travel to Eastern Michigan or injury. However, on Wed­University for the Central 
nesday, the team began practice Collegiate Conference meet. The on its exchanges and take-offs and, Irish will be looking to capitilize on hy the end of the week, was ready their newly discovered middle 
for competition. McMannon, Mike distance st~ength and their more Makowski. Mike Dimick and Jack PstablishC'd hurdle prowess this (;prwC' managed a time of 31.2 l'oming Saturday 
~~--~==~~~ .... 

'1723 So. Bend Ave. Jim -class of '63 Chuck -cl~ss of '65 
*TAPPERS IN STOCK FOR KEGS 
Call Ahead 272-9800 RED TAG BEER SPECIAL 

We will meet Any Locally Advertised Price *DISCOUNTS AVAILABLE* 
THE NOTRE DAME-ST. MARY'S THEATRE 
AFTER THE RAIN 

JOHN BOWEN'S absorbing theatrical morality p1"1y surrounding events 200 years hence--after the rain. 
February 16, 17, 22, 23, 24 at 8:30 pm Washington Hall Notre Dame campus Students, Faculty, Staff $1.50 
Reservations: 284-4176 (Business Hours) 283-7054 (Show Nights) 

'lET'S GET ACQUAINTED" 
GRANOLA We Specialize 
Reg 59' 
in 29' with 
Natural this Ad 
2340 MIRACLE LANE -MISHAWAKA, INDIANA 46544
Foods Limit 1 per person TOWN & COUNTRY Exp. 3-1-7 259-7283 
Shopping Center 
Acareer in law ••• WithOUt laW SChOOl. 
When you become a Lawyer's Assistant. you'll do work traditionally done by lawyers -work which is challenging, responsible and intellectually stimulating. Lawyer's Assistants are now so critically needed that The Institute for Paralegal Training can offer you a position-in the city of your choice -and a higher starting salary than you'd expect as a recent college graduate. Here is a career as a professional with financial rewards that increase with your developing expertise. 
If you are a student of high academic standing and are interested in a legal career. come speak with our representative. 
Contact the Placement Office. A representative of The Institute will visit your campus on: 
TUESDAY,FEBRUARY20 
NOTE. If the above date is inconvenient for you. please call or write The Institute for information. 
The Institute for Paralegal Training 
13th floor. 401 Walnut St. Phila.. Pa. 19106 (215) WA 5-0905 _j 









