On The Inside 
First Issue of SMC Review ... page 2 Middle East Treaty ... page 3 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VIII, No. 45 .Monday, November 12, 1973 
Addresses Stepan crowd 

McGovern raps administration; calls for Nixon's impeachment 
by Tom Drape News Editor 
Senator George McGovern asked for the im­peachment of President Richard Nixon last night in Stepan Center, describing it as "the clearest remedy remaining." 
"The confirmation of a Republican vice-president is a political prerequisite to the impeachment however," said McGovern in his call for justice. He added, "I am prepared to confirm Gerald Ford." 
Administration Inoperative 
McGovern assailed the Nixon Administration as men who "have traded ideals for deals" before a crowd of 1800 attending the Robert Kennedy Lecture Series. 
The Democratic Senator from South Dakota at­tacked Watergate for pushing other government problems to the wayside. "I have done my best to give the administration the benefit of the doubt," McGovern stated. 
"The Administration, in these circumstances has become incredible, and to borrow a phrase if I may, virtually inoperative," charged the Senator. 
Demand to Act 
McGovern's approximately 35-minute speech was followed by a question-answer period during which he declared Nixon's future as now being "in the hands of Congress." 
Demanding it was time "to either move ahead with impeachment or stop belly-aching about it," McGovern cited the Congress' recent overriding of Nixon's veto of the War Power Bill as an important step forward. 
The resignation of Spiro Agnew was also offered as a hopeful response to the government's future by the Democratic candidate in 1972. 
Republican V .P. -A Must 
The Senator from South Dakota emphasized the need for confirmation of a conservative, Republican vice­president prior to impeachment. 
"He should be a Republican of similar views," noted McGovern as he went on to describe Gerald Ford "as the closest man in Congress to the President in foreign and domestic views." 
"The electorate spoke a year ago this month by the largest majority in history for a conservative ad­ministration and we should operate on their views," McGovern said. 
He acknowledged that he was not an advocate of Ford's stances but in favor of his confirmation. 
McGovern stated that he was not partisan to his party but to. the Constitution in the present cir­cumstances. 
Non-Partisan 
Making his first out-of-state appearance exactly one year since the election, McGovern admitted his conclusion to impeach was "uncomfortable" for any American to reach. 
The Senator emphasized that his decision was not a partisan judgement. "I think the time for silence on my part and others who love this country has passed," said McGovern. He added that this decision "is not vindicated by my defeat of last year." 
Energy Stance Too Late 
In his allusions to the crippling results of Watergate, McGovern singled out the administration efforts regarding the present energy crisis. 
"After four years of warnings of an energy crisis ... the' Administration tells us to lower our thermostats," said the Senator. 
McGovern detailed that in the President's efforts to 
defend himself "and tough it out on the Watergate 
front, we are expected to tough it out on the energy 
front this winter." 
Foriegn Policy No Exception 
"I think the administration is neither influential nor 
indispensable in foreign affairs," said the South 
Dakota Democrat. 
Pointing out the diminishment of American respect 
abroad, McGovern said "that in such an atmosphere, 
even Kissinger with all his talents will find it hard to 
conduct world affairs." 
McGovern challenged the stance of those who feel 
the present administration must stay in power to 
preserve our respect in the world. 
"Their hope seems to be to carry out the business of 
the world without the business of justice," accused 
McGovern. 


of. the American system. _:"Power must now rest with the Congress and the people of America," he said. 
McGovern stated the action of the Congress will be geare~ to the public will. He issued a plea for the Amencan people to write, wire or visit their representatives on Capitol Hill. 
McGo~er!l offered hope now in Congress by noting th~ prehmmary vote of the House Judiciary Com­nnttee last week in which they fell only two short of the needed majority to begin impeachment proceedings. 
Made Mistakes 
"We made mistakes but didn't do anything legally wrong,'' responded McGovern to a question concerning the purpose and effectiveness of the Senate Watergate Committee. 
He noted that the Senate Committee "was almost desperate in efforts to find something wrong with our campaign." 
"Better to lose the election, than betray your honor " 
stated the Senator in retrospect. ' . Commenting on the Watergate committee's efforts m general, McGovern praised their accomplishment of 
educating  the  American  people  to  the  reality  of  
Watergate.  
Seventy-Six  

Declining to speculB:te on his possible election plans for 1976, McGovern said he would wait until after next ye~r's Congressional and gubernatorial elections. 
As you know, I am an advocate of early an­nouncements," the Senator joked, but expressed a concer~ to concentrate on his upcoming Senatorial 
campaign. 
He. said any thought on a possible presidential candidacy would be postponed for another year. 
Kennedy Lecture Series 
McGovern's appearance marked a revival in the R?ber~ Ke~nedy Lecture Series which began in 1969. His third visit to Notre Dame, McGovern quoted the late Robert Kennedy as saying "a contest is on not for the_ rule of America but the heart of America," to 
which he asked for a resumption. 
The Student Bar Association and Student Union Academic Commission co-sponsored McGovern's appearance with the personal efforts of Ch~c~ Nau a 
Notre Dame law student. ' 
t~ \(t'tj'1't:f"t<~tl t..~t~",· ,..''\'..·•· .~·:' "'.(t1,t.fV1~1t \f{;t\~J:t~'. 
l" ···· ·--· the. observer·-·---M"~~da~: ~o·v~;,;~er 
12. 1973 
warld briefs 
WASHINgton )upi .. WASNINGTON (UPI)-8enator George S. McGovern said Sunday he was convinced that confirmation of Rep. Gerald R. Ford as vice­president is a precondition to any successful effort to remove President Nixon, either by impeachment or forced resignation. 
McGovern predicted that Nixon, the man who overwhelmingly defeated him one year ago, will be forced out of office one way or another after Ford is confirmed. 
CAPE CANAVERAL (UPI)-Four new stabilizing tail fins were bolted into place on the Skylab 3 launch rocket Sunday and approval was given for blastoff Thursday for the last space station crew. 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. (UPI)-David Akeman, the lanky country comedian known as "Stringbean" to "Hee Haw" and Grand Ole Opry fans, and his wife were shot to death early Sunday after apparently surprising burglars on their isolated farm on returning horne from an Opry appearance. 
STOCKTON, Calif. (UPI)-8heriff's deputies un­covered two more bodies Sunday, bringing to at least 18 the num her of victims in a two-state murder spree in which two men are being held. 
BELFAST (UPI)-Gunmen seriously wounded three men in Belfast Sunday in what police said were in­ternal feuds within the outlawed Irish Republican Army <IRA) and the Protestant militant IDster Defense Association (UDA). 
an campus tadaY 
10 a.m., 5 p.m.--art exhibit, "nineteenth c. works and ancient and mediaeval objects from the permancent collection," italian renaissance work from the permanent collection, "new protfolio of josef albers.'' "portraits from the permanent collection", notre dame art gallery, o'shag, free 
12 noon--meeting, american indians faculty committee and native american club, vac. dining room, south dining hall 
4:30p.m. lecture. "the impact of black death: panic or renewed confidence.'' by dr. james m. powell, rm. 715 mem. lib., free 
7:30p.m. lecture, "ecology of the wolves and their prey on isle royale.'' by dr. durward allen, carroll hall, madeleva, smc, free 
8 p.m.--travelogue, "legend of a lost crown," presented by mason temple scottish rite of south bend, with howdie meyers and lucia perrigo, o'laughlin aud., moreau hall, smc, free 
9 p.m.--concert, notre dame jazz band, Iafortune center, free 

Bi-weekly newspaper 
St. Mary's Review debuts 
by Jane Cannon 
Staff Reporter 
The first issue of The St. Mary's Review was distributed on the SMC campus last week. This bi-weekly review of campus and national media is produced by the Journalism and Media class at St. Mary's, under the direction of Writing Program Director, Dom Bosco. 
Approximately twenty St. Mary's and Notre Dame students in the journalism class com­promise the staff of the Review, although it is open to anyone who has something to say. 
The St. Mary's Review is being published by the St. Mary's Print Shop, and financed by Chimes, SMC's literary publication. 
According to Bosco, "The whole idea is to develop a permanent St. Mary's newspaper. It is not meant to compete with The Observer, but merely to fill in some gaps." 
"I don't know that The Observer really fulfills the journalistic needs of the St. Mary's community. We are starting out as a media review paper because it is a good place to 


University files denial in Mcintire salary despute 
Lawyers for Notre Dame have filed a denial of charges filed against the university by an N.D. professor seeking damages of $225,000 in a breach of contract suit. 
The plaintiff, Michael F. Mcintire, associate professor of law, has filed suit in St. Joseph County Superior Court claiming that the university has not paid him for his teaching duties since September because he refuses to enter into a new contract. 
The suit claims that the university is harassing Mcintire into leaving his job by seeking to force him to sign a new contract providing for a "date of ter­mination." 
He signed his present contract with the university in May, 1970, and he has been teaching at the university since Aug., 1970. 
The university · offered him the new contract last April 5 and has refused to honor the 1970 contract until he signs the new one, he alleges. 
He is seeking an injunction from the court to require Notre Dame to honor his 1970 contract and is asking $75,000 in damages and $150,000 in punitive damages. 
In its reply, the suit by the university con tends Mcintire's petition is too vague and does not clearly represent a charge. The university also denies basic 

Jewish theologian lecture slated 
Dr. Richard L .. Rubenstein, Professor of Religion at Florida State University, has lectured extensively on campuses throughout the United States, Canada and Europe and is the first American Jewish Theologian to lecture at an instit­tution behind the Iron Curtain. 
Fr. Dunne guest 
at Bulla Shed 1uncheon Tuesday 
This Tuesday, November 15, is the date JJf the second Bulla Shed Luncheon. Originally planned to take place every other Wednesday, the luncheon was changed this week to accomodate the schedule of Fr. John Dunne who will be the guest of honor. 
Fr. Dunne is the author of three books, and is one of the more popular teachers on campus. In recent years he has spent time at both Berkeley and Yale writing and teaching. • 
The luncheon will begin at 12 noon. Tomato soup, submarine sandwiches, chips, and homemade cookies will be served. All segments of the ND-8MC com­munity are invited. 
L__ ______________________ ___ Rubenstein will lecture in the library auditoriun at 8:00 tonight. 
Rubenstein is the author of four controversial and widely discussed books, After Auschwitz, The Religious Imagination, and Morality and Eros. A new book, Paul of Tarsus--Apostle at the Crossroads will be published on March 1971 by Harper and Row. He has contributed to many periodicals including: Playboy, Commentary, Commonweal, Reconstructionist, The Psychoanalytic Review, The Union Theological Seminary Quarterly and many others. 
In Moralityan~ Er~. he a~alyzes
the new morality, m· the light of psychoanalysis, radical theology, and the Judeo-Christian tradition. He notes that the area of love, work, aggression, sex, marriage, and the family inherited religious values and realistic needs. In aworld that some feel to be devoid of God, sacred dogma no longer provides adequate ethical in­sights; and intelligent Christians and Jews are seeking more 
The Observer is published dally during the college semester except vacations by the stuoents of the University ot Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S8 per semester ($1.. per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46$56. . . ' 
relevant personal values: the new morality. 
Rubenstein obtained his A.B. from the University of Cincinnati in 1946; and M.H.L., rabbi, Jewish Theological Seminary in New York City, 1952; S.T.M., Harvard 1955, Ph.D., 1960. He is also Academy Adv. Council Am. Philos Association. 
See us November 15 at ADMINISTRATION BLDG· for Information aoout our two-year Master's degree programs at the Cornell University 
GRADUATE SCHOOL OF BUSINESS AND PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION 
Contur.l ·you.r pliicornont 
office lor ox<~ct t11ncs 
allegations. 
No hearing date on the matter has been set. 
By The South Bend Tribune 
THANKSGIVING BUSES TO CHICAGO 
DEPART CIRCLE 1:00pm WED. NOV. 21 ARRIVE O'HARE 2:30 (CHICAGO TIME) 
RETURN SUNDAY NOV. 25th DEPART O'HARE 8:00pm (CHICAGO TIME) ARRIVE CIRCLE 11:30 (SOUTH BEND TIME) 
SIGN-UPS AT TRAVEL BUREAU, BADIN HALL. ALL SALES FINAL. 
he way to buy the insurance you need but may feel you can't afford. 
For further information call: 33-3104. Talk to: 
Bob Roemer 
The Mutual Life Insurance Company Of New York 
start," Bosco continued. 
"As of yet we have no real staff, but we hope to develop a real newspaper eventually. I would like it to cover all aspects of the college. It would become the voice of the college, giving the students something to rally around," Bosco explained. 
The first issue includes, "A Comparison of the Chicago Tribune and Chicago Sun-Times" by James Fairbairn, "WNDU: Notre Dame's Money Maker," by Richard Cronin, "Playboy Seen Through the Eyes of an Ignorant Bystander" by Donna Marie Barbaro, "A Review of Women's Magazines" by Helen Fricker and many other articles of interest. 
Anyone wishing to comment or contribute material to the St. Mary's Review, should address their materials to Box 52, Madeleva, St. Mary's. 
All views and opinions in this publication are solely the opinions of the students who wrote teeeeehem and are not to be mistaken for the positions of the entire college. 


Bob Roemer Class of '73 


MCDNY
MUTUAL OF NEW YORK 
In Africa or in any of the 35 countries where Divine Word Missionary Priests and Brothers serve. You will feel so good after a day's work that you'll do a wheelie on your way home. 
---------~----------------­
If you'd like more info write: Or call collect: Fr. Tom Streveler, s.v.o. (319) 876 -3332 Divine Word College, Dept. C-9 Epworth, Iowa 52045 
~arne-----------------------------------------------­
freshman 0 Sophmo1e 0 Junior 0 Senior 0 
Address------------------------------------------­
City----------------------State----ZiP----­
Monday, November 12, 1973 the observer 
Cease-fire signed by Egypt, Israel 
<UPI> In a hastily-erected drab green tent in the desert, Israel and Egypt signed a historic six-point agreement Sunday sealing their three-week-old cease-fire and opening the way to negotiations for peace in the Middle East for the first time in 25 years. 
The agreement negotiated and drawn up by U.S. Secretary of State Henry Kissinger was signed by a general from each side at about3p.m.( 8 a.m.EST)ata table covered by blue-gray woolen blankets in the tent at Kilometer Marker 101 on the road between Cairo and Suez. 
It was the first time represen­tatives of t)'Je two countries, which have fought four wars in 25 years, sat face to face to sign a joint agreement since the 1949 Rhodes cease-fire that ended the first Israeli-Arab conflict. The fruit of talks in Washington and a hectic tour of five Arab capitals by Kissinger on the way to Peking, the document sealed the United Nations cease-fire arranged by the United States and Russia to end the fourth Arab-Israeli war which began with an Arab attack on October 6. 
Although there also was no mention of future peace talks, Israeli officials said it also was understood these would start soon. 
Arab reports have said the talks might open around December 10 in Geneva. 
Major General Aharon Yariv, 51, former chief of military intelligence and now a special adviser to Prime Minister Golda Meir, signed for Israel. Egypt's representative was Major General 
Mohammed Ganassy, chief of operations and second in command 
President Nixon to confer 


with GOP Congressmen 
by Craig A. Palmer 
WASHINGTON<UPO) The White House said Sunday that President Nixon will meet with all Republican mem­bers of Congress this week for a full discussion of his position in the Watergate affair and will confer with some Democratic congressmen later. 
Sen. Charles Percy, R-Ill., who disclosed that the meetings were planned, indicated they would include all Republican and Democratic congressmen and senators. But presidential press secretary Ronald L. Ziegler, while confirming plans for meetings with 
Republicans, said  sessions  
with Democrats were  "down the  
road."  

The disclosure came amid growing signs the President was prepared to make public his controversial tape recordings and other Watergate-related material once the legal way is clear. 
Percy, reporting Nixon's plans on NBC-TV's Meet the Press, commented: "I think this is the beginning of full and total disclosure. It is not the end by any means." 
"The President knows this. He will have a way to establish a forum whereby he can subject 
himself  to  interrogation  and  
questioning...the  President  now  
seems  determined  to  put  this  
matter behind him."  

Ziegler said the President "hopes" to meet this week with all Republicans in the House and Senate. "The meetings will be at the White House," he said. "Down the road there will also be some meetings with House and Senate Democrats." 
Ziegler did not elaborate. But there were indications the meetings would be in the form of discussion groups at breakfast or in the afternoon, with the lawmakers free to ask questions. 
The White House had announced previously that Nixon wouldmeet Monday with the Republican Coordinating Committee, com­prising the GOP congressional leadership and members of the party's national committee. The President returned earlier than expected from a weekend at his Camp David retreat Sunday and a spokesman said he was working in his Oval Office. 
Percy, asked if the moves the Pres~dent now contemplates promise to restore public faith in him, said: "It's been in serious doubt. .. .I think it is possible. But the hour is late This is why the 
president  must  move  with  
great dispatch now."  
Disagreeing with Sen.  Edward  

W. Brooke, R-Mass., who has called for the President's resignation, Percy added: "The President answered no. He has said he will not resign. There fore the other two alternatives are the only courses available-full disclosure or impeachment." 
Watergate matters get a further airing both in the courts and in Congress this week. 
European governments respond favorably to Mideast agreement 
BRUSSELS (UPI) Most European governments Sunday reacted favorably to the signing of the Israeli-Egyptian cease-fire agreement saying they hoped it will eventually lead to negotiations andanend to Middle East warfare. 
In Bonn, West German gover­nment spokesman Armin Gruenwald said, "The government is very pleased that a cease-fire has been achieved. The gover­nment hopes that the cease fire will lea_d to peace negotiations."
The East German news agency ADN described the signing as "a first significant step towards implementation of the latest U.N. Security Council resolution." But ADN also said in a Cairo-datelined report the signing took place"24 hours behind schedule-caused by Israeli delaying maneuvers." 
French government sources were quoted as saying :"Whether or not the cease-fire will stick and peace comes depends on the an­swer to two questions: First, does President Anwar Sadat of Egypt really want to end a conflict that has lasted for a quarter of a cen­tury or is he only trying to get into a more favorable military position for another round of hostilities later? and secondly, if his aim really is peace, .can he persuade other Arab governments to go alone with him?'' 
British officials also expressed hopes the truce would lead to a final. settlem~nt of the long-d h
standmg conflict and said the a' owever' expressed disap­
t k pointment that Sadat had bowed to 
f!:~=~~~n mar ed a decisive step the "Zionist aggressors and ex-In The Hague, a Dutch pansionists" and said in a ~pokesman said, "the government telegram to the Egyptian leader it IS glad about the provisional . was very suspicious that other 
agreement. She (the government) hopes that here-with an important step was made on the road to negotiations which can lead to a politicial solution." 
President Idi Amin of Ugan­~r.ab co~ntries had not par­hcipated m the negotiations. 
"It is very disheartening and pai~ful for the friends of Egypt in Afnca wh«;> hav~ faithfully sup­
ported her m her JUSt cause to find -the just cause is suddenly aban­
doned," Amin said. 

"Smile, God Laves You" 
DERMSHEM © MOTORS 
"Tell your friend to buy his car here 
and if he does., we 'II give 
you $3511 
Special: '68 Camaro, 3 sp. 
Vinyl Top $1295 
FINANCING AVAILABLE 
"If we don't have it, we'll get It" 
© OPEN MoiL, Tues., Thun., 9-8; Wed., Fri., Sat., 9-6 CALL 233-5145 832 Savtb a. Awe. Jt Mitre Dale Awe. 
© 
. 1t 
~ 
in command of the Egyptian army. 
United Nations Brig General Ensio Siilasvuo, a Finn, presided over the signing. 
U.S. spokesman Rudolph Staduhar at the scene · said the signing began at 3p.m !8 a.m .EST), but an Israel national radio reporter inside the signing tent said the two chief delegates took out their pens and wrote their signatures at (8:20 a.m. EST). 
UPI correspondents Thomas Cheatham on the Israeli side and Maurice Guindi on the Egyptian si~e. who witnessed the signing, sa1d that after the ceremony Tarvi and Ganassy continued talks about each side's interpretation of the agreement with a view to carrying out its provisions. 
Coils of barbed wire flanked the tent and a large United Nations flag fluttered overhead. Separate Israeli and Egyptian tents were nearby. Struggling to see or gain entrance, nearly 400 newsmen pre.ssed against lines of military police from both sides and U.N. peacekeeping troops. 

PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Main Building 
INTERVIEWS FOR NOVEMBER 19 and 20 
Interviews are for seniors and graduate students. Sign-up schedules are in Room 207, MAin Building, except Law Schools which are in O'Shaughnessy Hall. Interview times must be s~lected and signed for in person. Houes are 8:00 a.m. to 5:00p.m., Monday thru Friday. The Placement Manual gives additional information regarding interviews and procedures. 
Nov. 19 Aetna Life & Casualty -Life Division. B in all disciplines. Detroit Bank and Trust. All BBA. Touche Ross & Co. BBA in Acct. and Fin. MBA with Acct. 
and Fin. backgrounds. University of Puget Sound -School of Law All interested students. 
Nov. 19/20 s. C. Johnson & Son, Inc. (Johnson Wax) All BBA. 
Nov. 20 Allis-Chalmers Corp. B,M in Engr., principally E.E. and M.E. American Motors Corp. BBA in Mkt. Financial Advisory Clinic. B in Lib, Arts and Bus. Ad. Indiana State Highway Commission. B,M in C.E. National Bank of Detroit. BBA and MBA. 
W. E. O'Neil Construction Co. B,M in C.E. MBA with Engr. background. University of Michigan -School of Law, All interested students. 
~mployer Information. Alternatives. Teaching. Summer. 
Action/Peace Corps/Vista. Federal Service. Room 222, Administration Bldg. 
:·.i'b'''f''"''''''"'...: 
1 1
WITH COUPON


!ij:;;·::l
. ,___ .
. .
. . 
I ANY 6 CYL. U. 5. AUTO • ! ADD $4 FOR 8 CYL. CARS.: 
1 1
AIR CONO. CARS $2 MORE : INCLUDES PLUGS, POINTS:: : CONDENSER, CHECK : 
:~~~:~cET~~:B~~~~;~~ 1 
........................~ 
..·tt'''W1*'·"'4·'1 .. 
WITH COUPON 
FRONT EliDa
lLI&IIIIEIIT · ,~ 
MOST 
AM~:~~AN ~ 
PARTS EXTRA 
IF NEEDED 
,.......................• 
••"fl.li&W!+H.IIIQ.Jtd·•~ 
WITH COUPON • 
BRAKE RELIIIIG l. ~~;~:; ~;!c : 
FORE1GN CARS :
.
. 
$2995 .l
I .. 
.
INCLUDES FULL 
INSPECTION, 
. 
FLUID AND CLEAH. : 
.r::Wfflirtl'iiR'"j'":''
r 
.h. <•w-
WITH COUPON 
SHOCK 
SALE 
$444 PLUS liSTlWTIOI 
,.
......,. .........._......... 
Snow Recaps 
$ 2295 560-15 
(plus F.E.T.) 
Premium 4 Ply Nylon 

Snow Tires 
F78-14 Blackwalls start as low as 
$1695 
(Plus F.E.T.) 



20% OFF 
on all tail pipes, exhaust pipes, and mufflers. 
Discount Tire Service 50595 U.S. 31 North 
272-1023 
OPEN DAILY TIL 6 SATURDAY TIL 4 
, ..................................... ~.#-­
·'



THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Art Ferranti Executive Editor 
Lee Gentine Business Manager 
Jerry Lutkus Editor-in-Chief 
Dan Barrett Executive Editor 
NEWS: 283-1715 
EDITORIALS: 283-8661 John Kloos 
BUSINESS: ?113-7471 Adverti~~g Ma~age.r.. .. 
Monday, November 12, 1973 
He Said It Again 
Senator George McGovern's speech last evening endorsed a stance that The Observer has followed from the begin­ning--the President of the United States should be impeached. If not impeached, he should resign to curb the loss of credibility that has tainted and demoralized the present government. 
To put it in a few words, as McGovern did, we can very well be faced with a president who is in office, but not in power. Nixon has lost credibility. He runs a government that does not have trust of the people of this country. And all of this results in a government that has difficulty functioning. 
McGovern's suggestion for change was basic--exercise your right as a citizen. Write your congressman and inform him of your stance. The Notre Dame student body can be particularly effective because of their national and diverse composition. Write your representatives at home because as McGovern pointed out, it is in the House of Representatives that action must be initiated. 
Besides writing your local congressman, write the representatives from this area. Notre Dame and this section of Northern Indiana are represented by Congressman John Brademas. The Indiana Senators are Birch Bayh and Vance Hartke. Write them today and tell them the same thing 
that Senator McGovern told you last night.  
Jerry Lutkus  

The HPC Party Role 
When the Student Affairs Office t bli h d th · 'd 1' f th 
es a s e e1r new gm e mes or e 
use of alchohol and parties on campusearlier this semester, one of the crucial portions of their legislation was a section setting aside a place on campus as a "Party Hall." It is now the beginning of 
November and Stl'll there 1·s no act1·0n on that section. 
Granted , the barn which was to be the facility ,burned down. But, nonetheless, once the furor over the guidelines settled down, so did the compliance with this 
Portl·on of the plan. 
The Party Hall was considered because most halls do not have adequate facilities to serve the social-party needs of their residents. At the HPC meeting Tuesday, it was stated that already nine of the 
11 h t d · d t
20 ha s ave repor e ma equa e facilities. 
meet with Dr. Faccenda to work on the 
problem and all we can say is "it is about time." The HPC, already projected into 
a floundering situation with the resignation of their chairman, is faced with another situation where they must provide direction. 
The SLC is reportedly forming one of their infamous committees to consider 
the problem, but it makes a great deal more sense for the hall presidents--the ones most intricately involved with the hall party situation--to sit down and draw 
t t h . d Th
1
up P ans 0 mee t e1r nee s. en,
hopefully, they can present those plans to the SLC which can fulfill its constitutional ~capacity of approving them. But, it's another situation where the HPC must get together and supply 
initiative and direction. 
~~~m~m~~~:~ 
Quote Sans Comment 
The following was found tacked to the SMC Dining Hall "suggestion" bulletin board. The letter is from a St. Mary'sstudent and the reply from the St. 
, f d •
00 1
Mary s serv ce. · 
Dear Saga,Why do you put those dirty, wilted weed-like scraps of lettuce under the jello and cottage cheese? The ap­petizing, decorative effect does not come off-in fact it is rather disgusting. 
Sincerely, 
(R ) Sickened by Seaweed 
esponse : 
We put them out to give those white plates a little color. Please don't eat them because we use them the next 
day. 
~~:~:~:~:~:~::~=~=~=:=~~:::~:~:::::-::~~:::!~=!t:~ffl:::::::lJ::=:=:=:=:~:~:~:::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::~=~=~=~=~:::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;!:::::::ffl::~:=~:::::::::;:: 
daanesbury ~arrytrudeau 


MilesTa Get ••• 


The Blessed 
"• I II
ISS 
butch ward 
"All things, therefore, that they command of 
you, observe and do. But do not act according 
to their works; for they talk but do nothing." 
It's been a long time, indeed, since Jesus warned his people about 
the pharisees and their actionless words. Without a doubt, there's 
some pharisee in all of us. 
There's definitely some on this campus. 
During the past weeks the clamor had arisen at Notre Dame for 
the school, as an institution, to publically condemn the practice of 
abortion.It has arisen from religious, lay faculty and students alike. It 
has arisen following our good Bishop's request for such a con­
demnation, and our president's reply that our academic discussions 
should not lead one to infer our approval of the country's present
abortion stand. 
It has arisen, and its intensity is disturbing. We waste so much 
time missing the point. 
Several years ago I was working in a men's clothing ston\'t 
Christmas time when a woman in her mid-twenties came in, pushin~:.S:. 
stroller and attempting to corral three noisy, soiled children. She 
looked very tired. 
One of my fellow salesmen asked the woman where one of her other 
young children was that day, and he looked quite alarmed whenshe 
answered him. 
"Oh, he died a few weeks ago." 
Attempting to rectify an uneasy situation, the salesman replied with 
an expression of sympathy. 
"That's alright," replied the woman. "We couldn't really afford 
him anyway." 
Such rigid belief in the sacredness of life. And we waste out times 
with statements of policy. 
Perhaps some administrator's replies to the Bishop's request that 
our stand on abortion was "obvious" were true. At least, they should 
be true. . 
If, indeed, our stand on abortion is not evident from the simple ob­servation of this Christian University in operation, then perhaps it is because our commitment to the sacredness of life is not evident. 
And if that be the case, Notre Dame had better do some serious 
questioning of both operations and the motivation behind those 
operations. 
But let us not become fooled into thinking that our public con­demnation of abortion will have any effect on that woman in the 
clothing store. We may affect the politician, the good Bishop, and acadamia--those facets of society whose discussion of the topic hides safely behind the "should be" realm. 
Rather, let us be aware that we as Christians, and as a Christian University, should be far more interested in the "is's" of society. The hungry mothers of hungry children, the drunk fathers with little left from the check they just received, the "sacred lives" without a last 
name. 
And let us try to tell them with our statements of policy, with our repealments of abortion laws, with our refusals to further allow open discussions of the subject on this campus, that their lives are sacred. 
And then let us try to tell Christ that we have been Christian. Let us convince Him that we clothed our brother, gave him shelter, gave him food, gave him drink, gave of ourselves. Let us convince 
Him after we have let the University appease our consciences bystating what should be so obvious and yet so many of us find im­possible to find in this University which we compose. Perhaps such a statement of policy would serve a purpose, one of providing all of us with the direction to convince an obviously differing group of "is's" that life is indeed sacred. A group of "is's" that has welcomed the changes in abortion laws to 
accomodatethealleviationofsufferingintheirpainfullives. A group of "is's" that has shown through its response that state 
;~~~~~~th~~~~~~~~m~a~~ 
Trying to convince them that those aborted fetuses would have been better off growing into dirty-faced, hungry, hand.-me-down clothed heartaches is not an easy task. Trying to convince them by merely repealing the laws they welcomed would be fruitless. 
One does not heal the pain by removing the medication. The task is one of immense difficulty. It is one of convincing the "is's" that their pain is blessed, that their suffering is their beauty,that they are the most loved of Christ's children. 
And we'll never communicate that love tC' them with statements of policy, Notre Dame. That approach would only communicate to them that stony whiteness which Christ so deplored. They just won't un­derstand, because they don't recognize us as "is's." And we must make their sacredness obvious to them. 
Blessed are the 'is's", for their lives are most sacred of all. 
the observer 
Night Editor: Bill Brink Assistant Night Editor: Dan Sanchez Layout: Maria Gallagher, Marlene Zloza Day Editor: Mary Janca Copy Editor: Rick Thues Picture Screener: Jerome Phillips 
Typists: Connie Fourre, Carole Rechtensteiner, Bob Steinmetz, Howard Halle 
Compugraphic Operator: Bob Steinmetz Night Controller: Joe Abell 
' y 
r 

-----~-----1 
Monday, November 12, 1973 the observe.r 
5 
the wizardry of crosby and nosh 



'a knight, a song, a sago, and a star' 
David Crosby and Graham Nash are a conglomeration of ideas in the rock genre. Like their counterparts, Stephen Stills and 
Neil Young, they are acoustic wizards, adept at the softer sounds of rock. They are political spokesmen, or rhetorists for a frustrated generation. And finally they are electric, hard-core rock musicians and songwriters replete with raunch, fire, and flash. They presented all of these erstwhile talents in concert last Saturdya night, and came off on a somewhat successfull note. 
They opened with their traditional "wooden music", featuring an ethereal "Deja Vu," giving the song an easy, laid back rendition. Ever-present, was the strong but subtle harmony, which was the paragon of their performance. Although I admire McGuinn-Crosby duets and Nash's contributions to anyone's music, David & Graham are only ultimately successful when blending fluidly with each other. Whether it was Crosby adding a nasal resonance to Nash's "South Bound Train" or Nash gliding over Crosby's melodic "Lee Shore", they attained a very mellow, soothing, and satisfying sound. 
An important aspect of the concert was 
the range of material performed. They 
drew from solo albums, their own album, 
and other collaborations with mutual 
friends. Nash performed his popular "Our 
House" while David wandered around the 
stage and Crosby did Joni Mitchell's "For 
Free' ' with Graham joining in at the end to 
"put on a harmony." "Guinnivere," 
Crosby's haunting ballad from the Crosby,­
Stills, and Nash album highlighted their 
acoustic duets.. 
If theere was a low point in the show, it 
was in the transition fromq1,1iet folk to hard­
driving rock. Toward the end of the acoustic 
set, Crosby played a painfully inept version 
of "Triad," in which his biting vocal 
destroyed the song's mood. Shouting lyrics 
were also employed on two new Graham 
Nash songs, "Sleep" and "prison Song," 
each angry, the latter rhetorical, and both 
detracting from their previous vocal ex­
pertise. 
The transition continued to "Wooden 
The next few weeks are exceptional for television since the networks are hurling their best to the viewer in movie and specials programming. So, without further ado ... 
William Holden stars in four one hour parts of the adaptation of The Blue Knight, the best seller by Joseph Wambaugh (The New Centurions). The first part premieres on NBC's "Police Story" tomorrow night at ten and replaces anything in that same time slot the following three consecutive nights. Holden, in his first television role, portrays Bumper Morgan, a cop who faces retirement and who does not want to . The film focuses on four days in his life (each part a day) as he chases the murderer of a prostitute. It promises to be good viewing. 
On the reprise scene, James Caan and Billy Dee Williams star in the emmy win­ning Brian's Song Wednesday on ABC at eight, This tearjerker, a sort of jock's Love Story, concerns the relationship of Gale Sayers and Brian Piccolo who became the first black-white roommates on road trips for the Chicago Bears. The tragedy of this true story rests in Piccolo's contracting cancer. Included in the excellent cast are Shelly Fabares as Piccolo's wife, Judy Pace as Sayer's spouse, and Jack Warden as Coach George Halas. Immediately following, ABC airs another made-for-TV film (although this is new) entitled Trapped. 
James Brolin ("Marcus Welby, M.D.") plays a desparate man stuck in a depart­ment store with six vicious guard dogs after him. You'll never want to pet a puppy again after this one. 
CBS telecasts the third in the apes saga this friday at nine with the premiere of Escape from the Planet of the Apes. In this one, before Heston and Franciscus blew up the earth, Cornelius (Roddy McDowall) and his simian spouse Zira (Kim Hunter) repaired Franciscus' space craft and Ships" which brought on the elctric music and gave guitarist Don Felder a chance to tear away at his lead lines while Crosby mostly jumped around to show how involved he was. Nash contributed another new song, "And so It Goes," which must have been written with Neil Young in mind. 
When the group performed "Immigration Man," though, everything clicked, the raunch was gone, and these guys were just playing powerful, hard, and satisfying music. A subtle intro led into "Long Time Gone," a tune inspired by the death of Robert Kennedy, and Crosby's vocal succeeded in the way it had failed on "Triad." 
The band rewarded its captivated audience with a thoughtful double encore. Again the tone was political with an a capella "What Are Their Names?" ap­propriately followed by "Ch~cago." Their final number, Neil Young's "Ohio", was an unpredicatable but well-received ending played in a frenzy and received as such. 
What can I say about two people who sang well, played well, and seemed thoroughly please their audience? Perhpas a little less raunch, a little less jive, a lot less inane rap and I might have glorified them. 
Linda Ronstadt opened the show with a superb performance marred only by its brevity and Ms. Ronstadt's inability to maintain a rapport with the audience. Unfortunately, she still is relegated to being 
rocketed away before the holocaust. They go back in time and land back on earth after the two sets of astronauts had departed. Their immediate reception is gracious until they have a child or baby ape and the humans begin to fear an uprising of apes. Bradford Dillman, Eric Braedon, William Windom and Ricardo Montalban (who will continue his role in the next ape film) are also in the cast. McDowall appears in all five ape films. This was Miss Hunter's third and last. 
To further counter-program NBC's four­part police epic, ABC has John Wayne's The Cowboys slated for tomorrow evening at eight-thirty. It is one of the Duke's best, not only because the role of a cynical rancher who has to drive over a thousand head of cattle with a bunch of pre-adolescents as cowhands, but also because he gets knocked off three quarters of the way through the film (shot in the back, of course). The kids achieve justice by shooting the killers and steering the drive successfully for their deceased sage who uttered his last words, "one lone star... " It is a top notch Western and a must for aficionados of that film genre. 
Sunday George C. Scott stars in Paddy Chayevsky's The Hospital. a black comedy concerning the medical profession; With all the dying, you will never want to go to a hospital for aid again. Scott plays a fairly straight role as a doctor who has an affair with a young nurse. Don't try to see another M+A+S+H in this film. It succeeds on its own although the laughs are not caused by outrageous antics. Tonight, Neil Simon's Barefoot in the Park is reshown opposite the Chiefs and the Bears NFL game on ABC. Jane Fonda and Robert Redford (recreating his Broadway role) star as the newlyweds trying to survive in New York with a wierd apartment and tenants. Typical Simon, it does not quite succeed as well on the screen as it did for so long a time on stage. The Andromeda Strain is rerun Saturday on 
a review by pat small 
a warm-up act which makes for a short set 
minimal interest, and no encores. Based o~ 
musical performance alone, she got to me 
more than Crosby and Nash. 
Ms. Ronstadt is especially strong when belting out a country tune as exemplified in her first song and "Silver Threads and Golden Needles." Her band was very tight particularly the steel and guitar players. But perhaps her greatest ability is in in­terpreting the country ballad. Her voice has the power to hurt in a way of not other performer and her renditions of "Love Has No Pride" and "Long, Long Time" were alone worth the price of admission. 
Her only shortcoming seemed to be the way she handled herself on stage. She seemed uninvolved when she wasn't singing and could not relate to her listeners between ~ongs. However, she need not be judged by Idle rap but by her ability to communicate in song which she evoked beautifully. 


NBC at nine. This excellent sciencefiction film based on the novel by Michael Crichton concerns a top secret research center's attempts at finding out and eliminating a micro-organism that killed a whole town except for a baby and an old man after a space capsule landed there. Arthur Hill heads the strong cast which is supported by a credible script and a crescendo of suspense. Ifyou have not seen it, don't miss it. 
Made-for-TV wise for the rest of the week, James Stewart stars as "Hawkins" again replacing the CBS movie tomorrow and Lee · Majors stars as "The Six Million Dollar Man" again on the "ABC Suspense Movie" Saturday. Either watch the NBC ~ilm that night or go to the hockey home opener. 
Specials for the week begin tonnight "Avengers" fans will get a treat as Patrick MacNee guests on Diana Rigg's new show "Diana" at eight-thirty. Tomorrow Snoopy and the Ice Follies cascade into the television screen at eight on 16. Bob Hope follows that with guests the Carpenters, Don Rickles, Redd Fox, and Joey Heatherton. '::overage of Princess Ann and Capt. Mark Phillips' wedding from Westminster Abbey begins Wednesday at five in the morning on 16, six on 28, and 6:30 on 22. For those who can't quite make it up that early CBS will recap the wedding Wednesday night at 11:30 replacing their late movie. Elvis is rerun Wednesday night also but at eight-thirty on 16 for ninety minutes from Hawaii. "The Waltons" has a two hour Thanksgiving special a week early with John-boy mortally 
ill. I swear, that family has weathered every disease and dilemma known to man short of the elm tree blight and Ewell Gibbons has rights over that. Sammy Davis, Jr., highlights 45 years. in the business in a one-man show Friday at eight­thirty on NBC. Jason Robards, Jr., stars in "a Thanksgiving Treasure" Sunday at 7:30 on CBS. Last, for obvious reasons, Jack 
., Paar's last show airs Friday night. It's 
about time. 
For the following week (since The Ob­
server) is not publishing that week until the 
Tuesday after classes resume) I shall list the big notables and you can check your listings for the rest. Next Monday, Cotton 1 Comes to Harlem on NBC :. It is a semi-humorous cops story. A week from tomorrow features Natalie Wood and 
:'husband Robert Wagner in Affair at 8:30 on '1 ABC. A week from Friday features To Sir 'Witb Love again on CBS and a Julie An­1drews special on ABC. 
And to wish you a Happy Thanksgiving 
ABC presents at eight e.s.t. Doctor Doolittle 
Nov. 21 with Rex Harrison. And on 
Turkey Day at 8:00 e.s.t., NBC airs that 
magnificent musical My Fair Lady with Mr. 
Harrison and Audrey Hepburn. 'Nuff said. 
Cancellations: Definitely scratched out of 
the schedules for January are ABC's "Bob 
and Carol and Ted and Alice" BCNS's 
"Calucci's Dept.", "Roll Ouy", ~nd "The 
New Perry Mason". NBC's "Love Story" 
"Chase", and "Diana" also seem to b~ 
headed to the way of the trash bin. 
Replacing "Perry Mason" will be a 
Walto~s-~ype show called "Apple's Way", 
and 'Dirty Sally" (a comedy! starring 
Jeannette Nolan and Dack Rambo spawned 
from a ••Gunsmoke" show of all places) and 
"Great 1Day" (another comedy, this time 
starring Esther Rolle and spawned from her 
maid role on "Maude") will take over the 
two CBS Friday spots. 1 Trivia Question: Since The Andromeda ·Strain will re-air this week you can check out the answers to the following questions to see if I'm right, too. a.) What was the secret .laboratory in the film called? b.) What was . the space exploration project named? c.) What town was wiped out? d.) What was the code number for the computer overload in the film? .109 ('p 
pue !'Pl'N 'lUOwpa!d p !dooas ('q !'AaN 'l(:lO.Q81.!1 l8 iU!JPP.M laaro.ld ('8 :ll.loM\SUV 


r-­
the observer
,, 6 

CI.AISICAI. 
The James Gang Pittsburgh Symphony Carlos Montoya The Fifth Dimension London Symphony Julian Bream Tim Buckley Colin Davis Josef Krips Cream Andres Segovia Pablo Casals John Mayall Mountain 
BIUII•fKK 
Aretha Franklin Butterfield Blues Band Lightnin' Hopkins
The Who Joan Baez John Lee Hooker Woody Guthrie Leadbelly Muddy Waters Billie HollidayDave Brubeck Ramsey Lewis Cannonball Adderly I.ABELS 

Ella Fitzgerald RCA Sine Qua Non Stan Kenton Atlantic Nonesuch Dizzy Gillespie Elektra Vanguard Gerry Mulligan Columbia and many more. Alice Coltrane Philips 
PI.U5 THUIIIIR8US VAUJE-811 MX 1171! 
THE CLASSICAL GUITAR THE BEST OF THE BLUES Segov1a, Lead belly, Almeida, Josh White, 
Williams, Memphis Slim, ••• 
Montoya 198 Otis Spann and many others and many others Value to $25.00 5 reL .J set Value to $15.00 3 record set 
BEETHOVEN MOZART 
The Nine Complete PIANO CONCERTOS Symphonies (Limited Edition) William Steinberg featuring 
and the Eschenbach, Pittsburgh ••• Badura-Skoda, • AS Symphony Brendel, W. Orchestra Klien and others Value to $44.50 8 record set Value to $15.00 3 record set 
CLASSICAL BALLET STRAVINSKY HIS FINEST MUSIC
(Limited Edition) Nutcracker Suite, (Limited Edition) Swan Lake Suite, Petrouchka, Coppelia Suite, Firebird Suite 
and Others •••Sylvia Suite, ·­
Les Sylphides, Featuring Giselle Ernest Ansermet Value to $15.00 3 record set Value to $20.00 4 record set 
HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
1 4 ~-.. .. I ;i I <t • \ ~ 
by John Fineran 
East Lansing, Mich.-Did you ever have one of those days when nothing went right for you? The Notre Dame hockey team had two of these days last weekend, losing twice to an inspired-Michigan State Club, 8-5 and 9-5. 
Things just didn't go right for the Irish all weekend. The team bus took an unscheduled tour of Michigan Saturday after the game, and the Irish lost three players­Bill Nyrop, Eddie Bumbacco and Ray DeLorenzi-Saturday night, the former two to penalties, DeLorenzi to a nerve problem in his shoulder. To make matters worse, all three players have doubtful status for this Friday night's encounter at home against Wisconsin. 
Friday night, it was Notre Dame's overabundance of mistakes which were instrumental in State' eight goals. It looked like it might be an Irish rout when freshman right wing Brain Walsh scored just 26 seconds into the game. 
The Spartans, however, came right back to score three times in the first period, putting temendous pressure on Notre Dame goalie Mark Kronholm, for a first period 3-1 lead. 
Michel Chaurest, who scored one of the three Spartan hat tricks during the weekend, took a ]pass· from Darl Bolton to score at 2:52, and then at 4:51, Tom Ross, who scored seven goals against the Irish during the two evenings, was left unmolested in the slot. He, too, scored for a 2-1 MSU lead. 
An errant pass by the Irish 
resulted in State's third goal, 
Chaurest againscoring. At 14:05, 
the right wing cruised in un­
detected for a slapper along the ice 
for a 3-1 MSU lead at the first 
period buzzer. 
The Irish cut the margin to 3-2 in 
the beginning of the second period. 
Larry Israelson, playing with a 
broken index finger, took a pretty 
feed from DeLorenzi a little over 
three minutes in to the stanza. 
Notre Dame got into trouble with 
penalties at the 7:04 mark. Les 
Larson incurred a holding call, but 
the Irish killed his penalty. Steve 
Curry went off one second after 
Larson's penalty had expired, and 
this time, the Spartans capitalized. 
Ross scored again, this time 
deflecting Norm Barnes' point 
blast, and when Mark Calder 
scored at 13:40, the Irish were 
down 5-2. 
Penalties to Notre Dame's Ric 
Schafer and State's Chaurest at 
17:30 provided the Irish with two goals within 78 seconds. Freshman Clark Hamilton, skating back­wards, took a pass from Alex Pirus and beat Tom Clark at 19:00. Nyrop then played give-and-go with DeLorenzi for the other Irish makrker and a 5-4 State margin after the second period. 
Notre Dame had many great opportunities in the first nine minutes of the third period, but either mistakes, missed shots or great saves by Clark thwarted the Irish each time. 
Instead, Mark Calder scored twice and Chaurest once, each players finishing his hat tricks, around a Pat Conroy goal for the 8­5 final. Kronholm and Clark were tested frequently during the night. Notre Dame's goalie made 41 saves, five less than Clark. 
On Saturday night, the Irish found themselves quickly in the hole, down 3-o after the first period as the Spartans scored three powerplay goals. 
With Nyrop off for holding at 1:37, Notre Dame put pressure on Tom Bowen, the Spartan goalie. MSU came right back down the ice, however, and at 3:04, after a couple of miraculous saves by Kronholm, Ross made it 1-o. The Irish goalie had saved un­believably on his right side, then slid across and stopped an almost sure State goal with his chest. 
Kronholm was spectacular .again with Larson off at 7:42 for elbowing, but Ross again found the range· for another powerplay marker at 8:35. 
It was Bowen's ·turn to do the 
stopping, and the lanky Spartan 
netminder was perfect, blocking 
Bumbacco on a solo and freshman 
Paul Clarke from in front. The 
Spartans gained momentum with 
the saves, and scored another 
powerplay goal for a 3-o first 
period lead. 
Pat Conroy had drawn a tripping penalty at 17:27 and was joined by Larson and State's Surges at 18:14 in the penalty box. The Irish failed to clear the crease, and Calder got his own rebound for a goal at 18:35. 
Again the Irish gamely fought 
back in the second period. 
DeLorenzi, Clarke and Walsh 
connected for Notre Dame off 
Bowen, but Ross, with two goals, 
and Sturges made it 6-3 after the 
second period. 
It was in the second period that 
Bill Nyrop incurred his match 
disqualification. On a questionable 
call, Nyrop was assessed a two­
minute minor and when he pursued 
the reasoning behind the call 
stenuously, he was politely told to 
take the rest of the night off. As a 
result, Nyrop might be loss to 
Notre Dame for Friday's game. 
Calder scored another State 
powerplay goal at 4:03 of the third 
period, while Colp and Ross' fifth 
goal later finished the Spartan 
scoring. The Irish scored two 
shorthanded goals within 16 
seconds. Curry and Schafer 
getting the markers, but Notre 
Dame was beaten again, 9-5. 
Kronholm made 53 saves to 
Bowen's 52 during the game. 
LeLorenzi left the ice after a 
collision with Barnes at the 10:10 
mark of the period. It appeared to 
be a serious 1shoulder -injury at 
first. but Coach Leftv Smith is 
hopeful the junior right wing will 
be able to play Friday with con­
tinued improvement. 
..-----------------------------~--~ 
(j
. . ' ... -.. -~ 
-----... -.. -.. -... -....... --... --....... 
• • l ~ .. ' .. ' ' .. ., ., ...... ., ' 't ' ... ' ' " .. • • • • .... .-••• ·\ \ 
•• J 'I a f' A oA A,.,...,. A~ II', ·a·r A" .. &<"A • .or&'o~·'·''' ._. ". 0: ........ t· ... ft 0. .. l'lo l'i A"' A ..,. C'• ~·o• .~ ol' 't • 'I' • ...... "" ... , "\,..,.. •"'-.·' .... -••• 
Monday, November 12, 1973 the observer 7 








Irish icers drop pair to Spartans 

Notre Dame scored 10 goals during the weekend series with MSU, but those tallies weren't enough to 
Knights of Columbus Ladies of Columbus -MEETING,_ 
1\1\on. • 7 p.m. • Nov. 12 
refreshments served after meeting 
I 

prevent a Spartan sweep. 
"Barnes could have putme into Bumbacco's status, however. the boards," Ray said of the Referee Medo .Martinello told Spartan's check. "He didn't finish Father James Riehle, the team's the check. When he saw me go chaplain, afte the game that he and down he said 'Get to the bench his officiating partners ~·did not quick': He kn~w I was hurt." think the senior's .penalty was 
Bumbacco's penalty came after intentional. Their interpretation to MSU's Daryl Rice had elbowed the WCHA .commissi~ner will him. The State player then cross-probably decide the rulmg. checked Bumbacco across the It indeed was a lost weekend at mouth. Eddie then speared Rice East Lansing for the Notre Dame .unintentionally 'r--Bumbacco drew hockey team. "We were too a five-minute major for spearing, lack~daisical}efensively," Smith while Rice who had started the contmued. They had too many affair, got a minor for high-breaks and we didn't clear out the sticking. crease. 
"We were poor on the power play 
"There are several things in­both offensively and defensively," volved in both Eddie's and Bill's Smith said. "We didn't convert on penalties," Smith said. "Right our scoring opportunities, now, I would have to say they are especially Saturday night. We doubtful for Friday's game." needed two points, and·insteadfour 
There is some optimism about big points ·went down the drain." 
r----------------------------· 


CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 

One roommate Nd Apts. 2nd semester. Call Jimbo 283-1552. 
HOUSEPARENTS -Married couple, preferably without children to live in Girls Group Home. Room and board + monthly salary. Husband may work or study outside the 
Home. Time off is provided. Call Mrs. Carol Wilken at 233­9491. 
RIDES WANTED 
Need ride to Bowling Green , Ohio for weekedn of 17 Nov. Call Rick 233;3945. 
Ride wanted to Mpls-St. Paul , leave 11-17, return 11-25. Will share expenses, driving. Connie 3857. 
FOR SALE 

Turquoise jewelry from the southwest-great for unique Xmas gifts. Call 8373 or drop by 209 Pangborn. 
8 track tapes $2.49! Catalog. Box 189, Uleta, NMB, Fla. 33164. 
FOR RENT 

6 Bedroom house , Just renovated, wall-to wall carpet. Completely furnished, fireplace. For grad students only. Jan. semester or im· mediate occupancy. AI 
Brasser 289-2461. 
All private 3 rooms up for married graduate student. All utilities. Near memorial Hospital. No rent in return for aiding parents to lift lwith· weight son and daughter to and from wheelchairs. 232-9128. RENTcassettes$1.50! Catalog $.50 {Refundable) Box 189, 
Uleta, NMB, Fla. 33164. 
NOTICES 
EUROPE! Take advantage of the specialists, British Airways -BOAC. Group inquiries welcome. Call 234-2098. 
--'---------u-
GOODTIX FOR THURS. NOV. 15 + FRI. NOV. 16 PER­FORMANCES OF GODSPELL AT MORRIS CIVIC ARE AVAILABLE AT THE STUDNENT UNION TICKET OFFICE, 2nd FLOOR LAFORTUNE, 11:30-5 DAILY. 
California Club Xmas flight sign ups travel agency Nov. 9-27 $208.50. 
Will do typing: term papers, manuscripts, etc. Call 233-6909. 
Morrissey Loam Fund can loan up to $150 at 1per cent inters!, 1 day waiting period. Basement of LaFortune. 11:15-121/eo/e Mon. -Fri. 
Openings now availble for part­time hostesses, cashiers, + cocktail waitresses...Apply in person anytime at Boar's Head Restaurant S2885 US 31 North, South Bend. 
TYPING DONE: theses, papers, etc. Fast. Call Gloria 234-9765. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost ladies diamond ring last weekend. Great sentimental value. Large reward. Call 283­7175. 
PERSONALS 
Tuck, you are neat! Happy Birthday. The Fox. 
J & J GRILL 

NO Students z 
Welcome.
z 
...... 
N 
24 hr. 7 days
M 
J & J GRILL 


AUSTRIA • FRANCE 1-week, per 

69 
~~;~~~:~·Add $98 from Chica· go. Singles 
add $11. 
Features round-trip jet to Luxembourg, RT bus to Kitz­buhel, 2 meals daily, double room in chalet, Dec. 14 and weekly in Jan. Add $10 Feb. and March. Also, 1-week ski tours to Chamonix and 2 weeks to Kitzbuhel or Chama­nix. Lowest-cost ski tours to Europe of any scheduled air­line. 
$250 Car or Rail Tour* 
One week, per person, double, features round-trip jet from New York to Luxembourg and car with unlimited mileage­or $260* unlimited rail travel in 13 European countries for singles. Add $98 from Chica­go. Offered Nov. thru March. 
SEE YOUR TRAVEL AGENT 
All prices subject to change. 

r-------------,To: ICELANDIC AIRLINES (212) 757-8585 630 Fifth Ave., N.Y.TN.Y. 10020 Outside N.Y. State: otl Free (800) 221·9760 
Send folder CN on tours to Europefrom N.Y. 0, from Chicago 0, from Miami/ Nassau D. 
Name_________ 
Street_________ 

~zy _________________ 
State______ZiP·---­
My Travel Agent is______ 



ICElANDIC 
-----------~!!.J 
1 
1 
-lj 
l 
J 
I j 
I 
1 
l I 
the observer Monday, November ~ 

See how they run: Irish 31-Pitt 10 
by Vic Dorr Sports Editor 

PITTSBURGH-Johnny Majors, .he University of Pittsburgh's daring young football coach, did <~verything he could. So did Tony ,)orsett, the Panthers' phenomenal 
reshman running back. And so Jid a Pitt Stadium capacity crowd '>f 56,000-plus. 
But Majors' strategy-work, )orsett's leg-work, and the vocal­vork of thousands of stoic Pitt ·>artisans all went for naught on ')aturday afternoon as Irish ·ullback Wayne Bullock ran tround and through the Panther iefense for four touchdowns and ~otre Dame's defensive eleven ·tllowed the Panthers only one-trip .nto the ND end zone. 
Pittsburgh's lone tally, a one­·ard plunge by fullback Dave fanasek early in the fourth period, ·ut what had been a healthy ~otre Dame lead to one touch­

l.-. 
·lown, 17-10, and pulled the Pan­·hers back into a ball game they'd ,1early fumbled their way out of in ·he first half. 
But the Irish answered Janasek's TD by unveiling some <ate fire-power of their own. 
The Panthers' Carson Long 1looped a short kickoff to the Notre l)ame 18, and Gary Diminick 
'ielded the ball and wiggled 23 rards up the right sideline. Then, ;tarting from its own 41, the Irish >ffense drove to its third and 
biggest score of the day. And the drive belonged, almost completely, to ND's 6-1, 233 pound junior fullback. Bullock rumbled over right tackle for 32 yards on Notre Dame's first play following the kick return, came right back with a three-yard pickup over right guard, and then enjoyed a brief respite as Eric Penick bolted through center for a six-yard gain and a first down at the Pitt 18. 
But Penick's carry was the drive's only claim to variety. On each of the next six plays QB Tom Clements gave the ball to his fullbakc, and on Play Six of the series Bullock notched his third tally of the day by blasting into the end zone from one yard away. 
Bob Thomas' extra poiknt put the Irish back into a comfortable lead, 24-10, and Bullock closed the scoring seven minutes later, with only :40 showing on the clock, when he loped into the end zone with a nine-yard touchdown pass from Clements. 
The effort against the Panthers was the best of Bullock's one and one-half year career, and it saw him finish with 167 yards in 27 carries. His other two touchdowns, both ground-based affairs, came in the first and third periods. 
The chunky junior's 11-yard burst with 9:17left in the opening period broke a scoreless tie, and his four-yard jaunt with 8:23left in the third padded ND's 10-3 lead after Thomas and Pitt's Carson Long had traded medium-range 

Greg Corgant==============================================;================================--=;=;=;=;=;=;:;:;:;:::;:;:=:=:=: 
Extra Points 

Tony Dorsett is amazing. There's hardly a better word to describe him. 
Against the number one college defense in the nation, a defense which 1ad been giving up less than 160 total yards per game, this 19 year old reshman picked up 209 yards in !29attempts for better than seven yards .er carry. By doing so, Dorsett set an all-time record for yardage gained tgainst a Notre Dame team exceeding the 195 of Billy Vessels of )klahoma in 1952, quite an accomplishment 
Anyone who saw this young man on Saturday afternoon at Pitt Stadium was impressed. He has the speed of a jack-rabbit combined suitably mough with the quickness of a cat, a panther perhaps. When he got the >all, Dorsett hit the line with such a burst of speed that he seemed to just ~oast into the secondary. For Pitt fans, especially' and for all those who tppreciate good football, he is, as one reporter mentioned afterwards fun 
o watch. And he's only a freshman. 
So far this season, Tony Dorsett has gained 1,348 yards, and he still has wo games left to play. His performance against the Irish on Saturday vas indeed exceptional considering the fact that this was the same iefensive squad which held Navy's Cleveland Cooper to 30 yards in 13 arries, and SC's Anthony Davis to merely 55 yards in 19 attempts. 
"He's twice as good as Anthony Davis," said corner back Tim Rudnick. 'He's the best back we've faced all year, and the best back we will face his year. The only other runner I can compare him with is Johnnyr todgers." 
Rudnick wasn't the only one who was impressed however. "Tony )orsett's performance today was a tremendous accomplishment," added :oach Ara Parseghian. "He's a super football player, and I'm very ~npressed. We did try to recruit him at Notre Dame, in fact he was cheduled to come out here for a visit, but he never showed up. He's a uper back." 
Dorsett approaches the game with an air of quiet confidence, a con­:dence shared by both his coach and fellow teammates. During the 'eek, as the Panthers prepared for the game, Dorsett was constantly urrounded by reporters asking the same question: How will you do gainst Notre Dame? To every question he simply smiled and replied, I'll get my hundred yards." 
"Dorsett is one of the most outstanding football players I've ever been round," noted Pitt coach Johnny Majors. "I certainly think he's a andidate for Heisman Trophy-I'd' certainly vote for him." 
Despite his accomplishments, it seems unlikely that a freshman would 
•in the Heisman although when Dorsett's name is mentioned, people 1ink of last year's winner Rodgers.
I 
"He (Dorsett) has tremendous acceleration," offered Drew Mahalic. 
' I ~ 
I've never seen better acceleration since last year against Johnny .odgers. He put on a fabulous show. I've got nothing but compliments Jr him." 
"He's a very good back," said Ross Browner." "He's quick through the 
' f 
ole, and he's got good speed. But their offensive line is a good blocking
I 
ne, and they knew their assignments well."
I 
"He's fantastic," added Rudnick, "he's unbelievable." 
~ 
I He's also quite amazing, but even though he ran for over 200 yards, and ven though his nickname may beT. D., Coach Parseghian put things in
I 
1eir proper perspective when he said, "You can't win football games if 
i 
ou don't score points, and he didn't score any points." 
I 

Fullback Wayne Bullock slants toward the right side of Pitt's defensive line enroute to the first of four Notre Dame touchdowns. Bullock finished Saturday's game with 167 yards and four TO's ... 
field goals. 
"When the chips were down late in the game," said ND head coach Ara Parseghian, "we needed at least one score and we were able to drive down and get two. On that first one we got a good kickoff return from Diminick and then Bullock carried it in from there. 
"It was not our best football game, and not our most artistic defensive performance, obviously, but I don't want to take anything away from Pitt. I was impressed with them. They executed well and were well-prepared. Johnny Majors had done an outstanding job." 
But Bullock's one-man wrecking effort and Majors' "outstanding job" as head coach were over­shadowed by another one-man show-the show put on by Tony Dorsett, Pitt's sensational fresh­
man tailback. 
The 5-11, 170-pound dynamo shredded Notre Dame's defense­the number one defense in the nation going into the game-for 209 yards· in 29 carries, and set a new record for yards gained against a Notre Dame defense in a singe game. (The previous record was 195 yards, set by Billy Vessels of Oklahoma in 1952.) 
"Tony Dorsett's performance today was a tremendous ac­complishment," admitted Par­seghian. "He's a super football player, a real great back, and he left me very impressed." 
Mike Townsend, ND's defensive co-captain, had his own comment on Dorsett's display of elusiveness. 
"Dorsett's hell," said the senior defensive back. "He's just hell. We played him just like we played Anthony Davis (who garnered only 55 yards against the Irish) but Dorsett got the yardage against us. And he got his yards on his ability to read our defense." 
"He's some back," agreed Bullock, who'd just had the best· day of his own career eclipsed, "but I'm glad we were the team that won." 
And the Irish were that team because, despite the huge chunks of yardage surrendered to Dorsett, they kept the fleet freshman out of their end zone. A pitch play from QB Bill Daniels to Dorsett misfired early in the first quarter, ending one Panther drive on the Irish 17. 
A second such play misfired on , Pitt's second possession, and four from the Pitt 14 and the, two Dorsett recovered the fumble for a plays later, worked the ball to the 17-yard loss back to the Pitt 27. On ND seven. the next play, Daniels fumbled the But the Panthers could move center snap and defensive end Jim only two yards in the next four Stock recovered for the Irish on the plays, and ND took over on downs Pitt 24. when Mike Townsend broke up 
Early in the third period, Daniels' fourth down pass intended Janasek and Dorsett had car-ried for flanker Bruce Murphy in the the Panthers to the ND 34, but deep end zone. back Tim Rudnick greeted Dorsett 
Janasek scored for Pitt on the on a sweep, and forced a fumble Panthers' next possession, butwhich was recovered by then Clements, whose per­linebacker Drew Mahalic on the formance was hampered by a
ND 32. 

severly pulled groin muscle, 
Then, just minutes later, Dorsett turned the Irish attack over to had the Panthers back in Bullock, and the Irish ground out threatening possession. He reeled their eighth win in as many off a 65-yard gain on second and outings. 



OBSERVER 
SPORTS 

~ ~ 


