OD The Inside 
lllack Arls week .... . .. page 3 
Commencement schedule... ... page 6 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VII No. 111 Tuesday, April 10, 1973 

Mary "Hercules" Promitus 
danced for 21 days in Madison 
Square Garden in 1926. Tom Tlgh 
and Jude Bremer. shown at left, 
may not last 21 days but they are 
getting in shape anyway for the 
Dance Marathon, April 26-28, to be­
held for the benefit ofthe muscular 
dystrophy drive. 
HPC takes final vote on 

new constitution tonight 
Passage predicted despite close vote 
by Tom Drape St'nior Reporter 
The compromise student goevernment con­stitution will meet its final test tonight at 6:00 
p.m. in the St. Edward's chapel with a roll call vote by the Hall President's Council. 
Grace Hall President. Kevin Griffin, said yesterday. "It's going to be close but I think we'll make it." Griffin is a co-author of the modified constitution. 
An unofficial Obst'rvt'r poll taken yesterday was unable to ascertain a complete hall tally but at last count seven halls had ritified the con­stitution. six had rejected it, and nine were still 
not decided. 
The l'Onstitution needs a two-thirds majority to pass which means only eight rejections will defeat the compromise constitution. 
IIPC chairman. Fred Baranoski, expressed t•arlv fears of unsuccessful ratification. "I'm more discouraged than anything else," he said. 

In :speculating on further action if the con­
stitution fails, HPC chairman Barnaowski said, "We'll see if we can c~me up with some alter­natives." 
He continued by stressing the large degree of representation which the hall presidents council is responsible for thus entitling them to have more voice in student government. 
"In the past. we've been more of an advisory hoard. We want more of the action," said Baranowski. 
Jim Clarke, an author of an earlier con­stitutional plan. voiced completesupport for the ratification of the proposed constitution tonight. 
"II will be close, but I think it will pass," said Clarke. "If it is not passed, there's going to be t·haos." he added. 
Hecently elected Flanner president, Frank !''lanagan. predicted yesterday his hall as a dt•cisive vote at tonight's 111eeting. Flanagan 
''I'm pleased that sutdents are taking interest l'Xpt'cted a great deal of resistance from hall coupcil 
and proving that it is just no a grocery list," Baranowski added. 
Tlw Obsc•rn•r poll concerning ratification of lh<' proposed consititution involved a vote of each hall t·ouncil. 
Co-author Griffin expressed that it would be impossible to <'Xpt'Ct the hall residents to sit down and read the Constitution "Some of the hall pr<'Sidents and l'ounctl members have read 11 onlv onl·e or not at all." Griffin said. 
Boih (;riffin :md Baranowski were not ~atisfit-d with the wav the proposed constitution 1s lwing pr<'sented in some halls. 
"Tiw authors are willing to make presen­lations lht•ms<'h'<'s." staled Griffin. 
Baranowski said that the success of the ratifinttion t•fforts might \'ery well depend on the oll't'ur:H'Y in whieh the l'Onstitution is brought hc•fort• tht• undN·idffi hall go\'ernmenls. 
l'aul Tohin. prt'sid<'nt of Ca\'anaugh, com· n~t·nh·d on lht• altt•rnali\'<'S remaining if the nmsllluttol1 fails h\' sa\'ing "There are no others, 1l's c·itht•r this on~ nr.none at all." 
"If 11 dnt-sn't pass. 1 guess wt''ll have to go hal'k to tht• drawing hoard." said Tobin. 
(;nfhn. who has spt•nd tht' majoril\· of his time oo\·c·r tlw ladt lwn Wt't'ks t\'ping and drafting the nHHJlrnm~u· l'nnstitutton.' was \"t'ry skeptical of turllwr l'fforts 1f tht• rallficallon fails. tie added. "I rt·;tllv hnpt• tt pass<'S for a combination of l"l'il!>OI1S ·.. 

nwmlwr Mike Hess, a hold over of the Kersten administration. 
"W<' l'Xpt'Ct a lot of argument and if !\like t·omt•s up with a good argument there could be a dose vote." said Flanagan. 
Flanagan t•xplained his only complaint by pointing to the injustice in representation under tlw .proposed eonsti_tution. The_ Flanner l'n•std<'nt feels that wtth representatiOn by hall tlw obvious l'onflict of smaller halls having equal mil'<' with larger halls would end in disaster. 
i':xduding that one point. Flanagan detailed his h•t•lings tow:1rd it hy saying, "It's definitely ht•llt•r than anything <'lse." 
Kim :\lagnolla. pr<'sident of Badin Hall. slalt•dht•r only t·omplaint to the proposed con­stitutio11 as similar to 1-'lana_gans. 
"I l'an 1mc1t•rstand hoth st~es. the HPC and studt•nt gon·rnnwnl. hut I thtnk that a student hocly n·prt'S<'nl:tli\'e should be elected by the ~lltclt•l1t hody as a whole instead of by hall," :\laJ,:11nlla siad. 
Tlw Badin prt-sidt'nt. whose hall council did ratify llw t·onstitution. declared her undivided ~uppor 1f lht• liP(' should pass it tonight. 
Tlw prnpost-d t·onstitution is primarily based 1111 1'1;111 ( • wlm·h had been originally presented ~·.Y l'at :\ld'l:tutthlin. Pangborn llall president. 
Ihe· t'n11slltullon would c-stahltsh a student 
.l~!>t)('tothn11 \'llh th<' nwtn ~to\·erning body being 
the• Jl;tll l'rt-stdt•nt's <'ouocil 
SLC will not 
intervene in fracas over constitution 
by Janet Longfellow Staff Reporter 
Student petitions requesting the Student Life Council to intervene in the current constitutional crisis were turned down yesterday at the SLC general meeting by a 14 to 3 vote. 
Student petitions were submitted with over 300 signatures requesting that the SLC provide a vehicle for a student government constitutional convention. The SLC Steering committee made no formal recommendations since it was split in its opinions, therefore submitting the petitions to the full SLC body for discussion. 
no constitution ... no budget 
Four of the petitioners were present to explain] their views of the constitutional situation. Richard Gering, a junior Government major,delineated the reasons for approaching the SLC. 
""The SLC is the only viable, available and potent body in this matter," he said. The petitions reguesteo the SLC, "to call a referendum or tne student body on the advisability of a constitutional convention because of the disputed validity of the current Board of Com­missioners Constitution." 
Representing the position of the Student Union, Director Jim Rybarczyk stated their main concern to be with the Student Union budget; "If the current state of no constitution continues, then we will have no budget. no Studef!t next year and no social activities. If any more-pettiness creeps into the Student Union, then it might as well be discontinued." 
Dt'bate mostly concerned the legitimacy of the SLC making recommendations in the matter. Dr. Phillip Faccenda, Vice-President for Student Affairs, and Dr. LPslie i''oschio, Assistant Dean and Professor of Law hoth agreed that the whole matter was a dispute over\ t'onslitutional legal procedures, and so should be handled by a judicial body. 
llt•an of Students, Fr. James Riehle conceded, "The students t•an solve this themselves." He observed that the nwjority of students seemed in favor of the lt•ad<'rship of SBP Bob Kersten. 
lit• stated further. "Mr. Kersten should get to the 
task himself. since he has the support of the students." 
l{t•f£'rring to possible entaglements, Riehle felt the SLC 
should not become involved in the political problems of 
student governm<'nt. 

('ommunit~· Ht'lations 
In nth<'r action. the Campus Life Committee 
n•porll•d an t'\'aluation on the April 2 hearing on 
<'mnmunily H£'lations. The eommitlee felt that very 
~nod things wt•re said at the hearing. but that this very 
fal't indil'alt-d a lack of real results. 
Assistant to the Pro\'ost Sr. John Miriam Jones 
st:tlt•d. "Wt• questioned the lack of off-campus 
n•prt-s<'nlatin•s at tht' h<'aring." 
Fnst·hio agn't'd. "W<' fet'l that the hearing didn't 
n·ally rt'\'t•al mut·h. there was no concrete £'vidence 
a..:ainsl th<' stud<'nts." 
Tlw Sf.(' Sh't•ring Commitlet' submitled a writlen 
rt'ptlrt wtth n"l·omnwndations on black student life. but 
llist·ussion w:ts postponffi until the next general 
llll'l'liIIJ.: . 

:\lso st·ht-dulc-d for th£' April 30 met'ting are reports un htlls asst.,:m-d yt-stt'rday. The Planning Committee \\ llll'tmsiclt•r lht• n•lot·ation of the! Student Affairs and l>tudt•nt urgamz:tttons offices. A flexible meal ticket pru.,:ram ;tnd lht' possibility of transferable football flt•kt•ts wc•re ns..•ugned to commitlees.· 

r 
r 
the observer Tuesday, April 10, 1973
2 

warld 


~.lia.:un :\Lijor (;t•neral Duncan A. MacAlpine. Canada's highest r;11tk111g 1111hlarv offil'ial in Saigon. has rejected Vietcong assertions 1Ita 1 1''" lwhcuj,tt·rs' rarrying rf'prl'Sentatives of the International t•,.,~,.., kt'l'fllllj! Ct•mmJssion wt>rf' shot down Saturday because they IJ;ut ,tr;111'd off tlwir prf.'scribed course. A few hours before \1., ... \lpliH' madt• his !otatf.'ml'nt. another shooting incident involving -111'11 lll'lll'oplt•rs ()('l'Urrl'd in the Mf'kong Delta. The White House 
llllllllllt'l'd lhal l'rl'sidf.'nt Nixon views as "l'xlremely serious" the .1rnwd ;1t1;tl'k~ on dl'arly marked helicopters of the International ,.,.1111111:-:-1on of Control and Supervision. 
1\ ·''hin!.!tnn·-Suq~l'ons at the National Heart and Lung Institute in I:, ·1lws1b. \1<1 . installed one of !he first American-<leveloped nuclear­~'''''''rl'd lwart pacl'makers in a 39-year-<>ld woman. This and seven . 11tn ··omparabll' o(M'rations done on the same day at Beth Israel \ln:-pit at Ill :'\t'wark. N.J.. Wl're !he first to place in humans nuclear­t•cllll'rt'd part•makl'rs dl'veloped in !he United States under a grant trom 1lw .\tomil' Enl'rgy Commission. The nuclear pacemakers were dt'SIJ.!Ill'd to last at ll'ast 10 years. much longer than the battery­"Jll'rat•·d ont's which have been used in operations. 
,,.,, York -Fornl('r New York City Mayor Robert F. Wagner l'haral'll'l'iZt"ct as. at most, "a mistake in judgement," his role as l'h;lirman of a foreign-based mutual fund, and defendant in a $30 million l'i1·il lawsuit in which and other prominent persons were ac­I'US('ct of fraud and diverting funds. 
an campus laday 
1:00 -5:00 p.m.--adoration of the blessed sacrament, corby hall chapel 
4:30 p.m.--lecture, human rights as in­struments of social change, prof. iredell jenkins, sponsored by the american journal of jurisprudence, room 109, old biology bldg. 
7:00 p.m.--meet your major, psychology, 217 psychology bldg. 
7:30 
p.m.--meet your major, modern and classical languages, 119 'o'shag 

7:30 
p.m.--meeting, women's caucus, zahm hall chapel 


8:00 
and 10:00 p.m.--film, Ia femme infidele, engineering auditorium 

8:00 
p.m.--meet your major, history, 103 o'shag 


9:00 p.m.--meet your major, education, 203 o'shag 
9:30 p.m.--meet your major, anthropology, memorial library lounge 
8:45 p.m.--lecture and discussion, ethnicity and the democratic left, michael novak, fiesta lounge, Iafortune 
at nd-....c: 

ND Law School to admit students at other schools during summer session 
Tlw Law Srhool of the University of Noln• Dam(' will open summer S('ssions this vear to students in good standing' at other schools in :lw nation. at'l'ording to Charles E. Hirl'. director and professor law. 
-Tlw siX-WPl'k Sl'ssion will begin \lay :!1 and will include courses in tlw I'Jl\'ironnwntal law program ~ponsnrPd jointly with Notre llanw's llt•partment of Civil l·:n~inl'l'rin~. Other areas of in­!t•n•st inl'lude law and medicine, l'OllStit o.lt iona JJaw, f.'Slate planning, propf.'rly sl'lllf.'ment, labor law, 1'\'idl•nt'l', antitrust advanced t·orporations. 
1-'ourt('{'n classroom hours or mstruction arf' rt'quired for each nl'dit hour during the summer .;('ssion. Hice said. Classes are conducll'd in air-conditioned rooms nn the Noire Dame campus. 

Tlw Law School also conducts a six-\H'l'k sumnl('r sf.'ssion on the l'ampus of Brunei University, London. under the direction of 1'1•tl'r Thornton. professor law. It is altl'ndl'd hv studf.'nts from about tiO law sl·hools and will extend from .hml' 18 to July :Jo this year. 
Ttte Observer is publiShett delly during the college ~•• hap~ vacations by the stuaents of 1t1e University of Notre Dame 8NI St. Mary's College. Subscrlcltions may be purchased for • per semester IS14 per YNrl trom The Observer Box Q, Notre O.mt, lndrana 46556. Second cl•ss postage paid, Notre O.me, lncl 
46556. • 



Settleznent lor Wounded Knee abandoned by Indian leaders 
b\ Hill Konl'h 1 ( ., 197:1 ~r" \'ork Tlmr!l 

\\otshln~ton--An apparent agr('('nll'nt designed to end the 41· d;ty cll'l'Upation of Woundt•d Km•e. 
S.D.. h\' a hand of arml'd Indians fl'll apart hefon• thf' eyes of a I'Onj!rl'ssional eommittee today. 
l'rt•l·iousl\', there had been rumnrs that' a rift had developed among lhl' ll'adf.'rs of the American Indian !\lo\·ement. who have din•t·!t>d lhl' occupation. and that this rift jeopardized the agreement signl'd by some of their members and the Justice Department last Thursday. But announcements made before and during today's lwarings were the first public aetions that apparently cancel that agrl'eml'nt. 
Shortly before he appeared to fl'stify before the House Subeommittee on Indian Affairs, Hussel 1\h•ans. the A.l.M. leader, ealled a news conference to accuse the government of bad faith and to deliver a new ultimatum. 

The White House, he said, would have to conclude a successful meeting with him before he could call on those remaining in Wounded Knee to lay down their arms. No such meeting has been scheduled, he told the commitee later. and said he could only conclude that "it is yet another treaty the White man has in­terpreted his own way except that this lime we are interpreting the treaty and you'll have to accept that." 
Mean's statem·ent was denied by Hichard Hellstern, a Deputy United States Attorney General who was present when the agreement was signed last Thursday. 
Hellstern maintained that it was dear the White House meeting and the disarming of the Indians remaining in Wounded Knee would lake place at the same time. "In fact, it was their original suggestion that these take place at the same time," he added. 
Now, he said, the Indians have refused to disarm until after the meeting. Hellstern insisted that this was unacceptable. 
Meetings had been scheduled with unnamed members of the White House Staff for 9 a.m. Saturday and again for 9 a.m. Sunday, he siad, but were called off because the disarming procedure had not been followed. 
Ralph Erickson, special assistant to the Attorney General, told the committee members: 
'~The position now taken by 

A.I.M. leadership clearly represents a change in position. There now exists a signed document and that document has been made public. We do not in­tend to accept unilateral changes or modifications to that document made by the A.LM. Leadership. We are prepared to stand by that agreement as it was originally made." 
Expressing the consternation of the committee members, Rep. Manuel Lujan Jr., R-N.M., asked lwn•"" In an aisde to other t·nmmill('{' nU'mhers. Lujan ad­ch>d. "Tiw answl'r may be to go in and l'll'itn lhl'm out--gt't them out." 
t-:rit·kson replif'd that the 1-!0I'l'rnnwnt was prf.'pared to continul' 1wgotiations. 
Bnt h .I ust il·e and ln!t•rior ll1·partnwnt offil'ials prl'Sent at the lwarin~s in thf' Rayburn Office Building pri\'ately agreed that the J.!O\'l'rnmt•nl operation of con­tainnwnt around Wounded Knee-­whil·h had cost $2 million to date-­was likel\' to eontinue for some timt• anct ihat the government had no intl'ntion of storming the In­dians occupying the historic \'illagl', which is the scene of a massacre of Indians by Army Troops in 1890. the last major clash in thl' Indian wars. 
The goal of the hearings-­scheduled for two more days here and several future dates in the field--is to look for solutions to the impasse at Wounded Knee. 
:\1 lt'ast on(' solution wus ~UJ!J!l'Stl'd toda\' h\' John C. Whitakl'r. Mling ·Sl'crf'tarv of the lntt•rior. who said a hill was being prl'pan>d hy thl' administration to IJ\lTt'aSl' t hl' size of the Burf.'au •:>f Indian Affiars Police Force from lifi In :!35. and "in certain locations to orgainizl' 10-ml'mber stri~;e fort'l's In dl'al with anv similar htturl' tll·currl'nces." · 
NOTICE 

ALL STUDENTS PRESENTLY SIGNED UP FOR NOTRE DAME AVE. APT'S FOR SUMMER OR SEPT. 1, 1973 
CALL MR. FARMER 
272-7656 

.E!:.irkson. "Where do w:e~g~o~fr~o~m~~=======::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~! 
Photographers wishing to work next year for the 


OBSERVER & DOME 
··Pick up an Application & Questionaire in the OBSERVER OFFICE 
Contact Joe Raymond lO:OO am -5:00 pm 




PENANCE 
-a lenten series sponsored by Campus Ministry 
TONIGHT Fr. J. Burtchaell 
Why the Need to Confess? 
Tuesday. , April 17 Penitential Service 

Both programs at 7:30pm Sacred Hearl Church 


Tuesday, April 10, 1973 the observer 
3 

College of Engineering Council
Black Arts Week opens 


Thl' Bla('k Cultural Arts WPek sponsored by the Society of Ujamaa and tlw Bla('k St udiPs Program began Sunday and will end with the <'olh·~iah• .Jazz Festival Sunday. 
Tlw program startt•d with a speech by former Congress of Racial !,.quality lwad .lamPs Farmer as a memorial to the late Rev. Martin I .utlwr King. Thru WPdnesday there will be a Detroit Urban Studies I lispla~· in IhP s<'eond-floor ballroom of LaFortune Student Center. 
\\ !•dnPsday night at 7 p.m. in Washington Hall, Owusu Sadauki, f'rpsidl'nl of Malcolm X University in Greensboro, North Carolina, and National Chairman of African Liberation Day-1973, will speak on "Afriean Liberation." The speech will be preceded by the Charisma I la m·t•rs. 
Tlw Collegiate .Jazz Festival in Stepan Center will run through the ll'l'Pkend and ('Onclude the program. 
Tlw principal idea behind the Black Cultural Arts Week is to expose 1\joln• Damp to the history and contributions of the community and to form a unity hetwPen organizations on campus and organizations in llw.('ommunity thru t·ooperation during the week. 
Poirier will lecture tonight 

in Library auditorium at 8 
Richard Poirier, noted critic, 1eacher. and editor, will lecture on "The Aesthetics of Radicalism" tonight at B p.m. in the Library Auditorium. The lecture, spon­sored by the Student Union Academic Commission, is free and open to the public. 
Poirier is a graduate of Amherst College with a masters degree from Yale and a doctorate from Harvard. He has taught at Williams. Harvard, Stanford, and Butgers. where he is currently the ('hairman of the Federated lkpartments of English. 
Poirier, who was an editor of l'artisllll HP\'iew from 1962 to 1971, has published numerous essays lkatles" <Partisan Review, Fall 

Richard Poirier will speak on "The
1967>. "The War Against the 
Aesth<'tics of Radicalism" at the
including "Learning from the 
l.ibra ry Auditorium tonight.

Young" ( Tlw Atlantic Review, O('tober 1968>, and "What is ('ommt•nllll'~·. and Harvard English Studies. and If You know Stutli!'s in English. \\'hat That Is. What is English Jlis hooks include Thl' Comic 
Litl'rature'?" <Partisan Ht>view, St•nst• o£ llt'nl'\' James. and Thf ~() 1,1970). l'!'rforming SPif. His most recent 
l'oiril'r's articles and reviews book. :\onnan Mailer. was ha\'l' appeared in :\!'w York published last October by Viking H1•1 il'\1 uf Bunks. Th!' :\l'W Press. 




Michael 

Novak 
author of 
BELIEF AND UNBELIEF, A TIME TO REBUILD, A THEOLOGY FOR RADICAL POLITICS, 
and THE EXPERIENCE OF NOTHINGNESS·· will be speaking of 'Ethnicity and the Democratic Left' at 
8:30 pm Tuesday, April 1Oth, in the La fortune Ffesta lounge 
This will be followed by an informal discussion of student politics and student partici potion in American Society. All ore cordially Invited. 




-will seat two student 1nem.bers 
h~· U;t\'C' Hust St•nior HC'portC'r 

~olr<' llaml''s College of 1-:ngirwerin~ Council voted Friday to spat two stud<'nls. Their action 1s dh•div<' imnwdiatelv. 
Tlw seating plan adopted by the t 'ourll'il is a modification of a plan suhmittl'd hy a Joint Engineering <'oun('il committee of J.E.C. l'n•sidPnl Ed Burke. Secretary \larianrw O'Connor and membir .lim :\IcLau~hlin. 
ThP pn•st•nt syst<'m seats the .ll·:.c presidPnt and allows the .I.E.<'. to dP\'Piop its own system for st'IPeling th(' other College <'oun('i I repr<'sentative. 
1\lcLaugh\in said last night of the .I.E.C. that in its meeting n•sterdav. the members ·..dist·uss('d things that haven't been discussed before." 
Engirwering students are often considpr·ed to be uninterested in affairs of the College and its ad­ministration. said McLaughlin, but 1 his appearance of apathy is miskading. 
"Many students have always had something to say," he said, "hut before this time, they never knew wh('re to say it." 
Having representatives on the 
Coll<'ge Council satisfied this need 
Long distance still is the next best thing to being there. And you can save money by calling nights or weekends. 


@ Indiana Bell 
to know "wlwre to sav it." said \lt'Laughlin. ­
"i':ngirwering students had been act·uspd of not caring about the prioritit•s of lh<'ir department or lht• ('ollegP," said the J.E.C'. lllt'!llll('r. "Tiwy wPre lost before on prioritiPs. Thev didn't know 11 hat I ht•y WPI'l'. . 
"I think that on a lot of issues 11 here deans sav students are intt•n•stPd. tlw deans are going to ht• surprised." predicted :'Ill'Laughlin. 
1-:n~im•Pring Ikan Joseph Hogan was "cooppr·ative and helpful" in drawing up plans for the inclusion of s1ud<'nts on the College Council. ac('ording to McLaughlin. 
"B<'forp wP wrote it up we had a good deal of consultation with ))pan Hogan." he said. "He was not antagonistic toward out efforts in any way." 
Tht• Ohst•t'\'l't' had earlier n•corded lkan Hogan's sentiments against placing students on the ('ouncil. 
"Ht• might still be personally opposed to the idea," said 1\leLaughlin. "but that hasn't kept him fmm helping us write up the svstem." 
·The J.E.C., an all-student organization made up of representatives from the Pngineering departments' various 

proft•ssional organizations and honorary frat('rnities. had adopt('d im·n•ast>d studt•nt !'('presentation on tlw Collt>gl' Council as om• of its goals. said 1\lt'Laughlin. 
"WI'\·p also dorw our own course 1'\'aluations for the first tinw." lw said. . ''l'n• rt>ad lh('m over tnt> tlw~· 'n· n•a lly prt>lly good." 
Tlw .J.KC. has also initiatl'd tutoring for stud('nts in l'n~im•t•ring "cor<'" coursl's and is authoring <'Valuations of those. 
"Tla• faeultv has alreadv pn•st•ntt•d tlwir Pvaluations to the ('ollPgP Council," said 1\kLaughlin. "Wt•'ll be presenting our own separately." 
That 1h<' J.E.C. was able to ac('omplish those first t>valuations and 1hl' tutoring sessiol}.S was due in large mt>asure to the prospect. tlwn the fact. of having student n·pr<'sentatives on the Council. 
"This representation will let studPnts kno\\ l'Xactlv what things 
nwan a lot within· the depart­ment." said McLaughlin. "I think our nweting (last night) was a good indication that once the students kno\\' the priorities, they'll get inte·:ested." 
At present. J .E.C. President Burke is on the College Council and St>cretary O'Connor is serving as an interim representative until the md of the year. 




THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Art ,::erranti Executive Editor 
Dan Thornton Business MSuger 
Tuesday, April 10, 1973 

Qualified Retraction 
Yesterday's editorial concerning room selections across campus contained an error concerning the number of picks allotted to Farley and B-P juniors in Lyons. The sources in Farley and B-P who should have known these facts were responsible for misinforming The Ob· server that the two Halls had received only 9 out of the first 54 picks when they actually received 14 out of 54. 
Nevertheless, The Observer is responsible for the error and apologizes for it. 
The Real Point 
The point of the editorial was that the proper spirit did not pervade the campus 

Rabble ·Rubble 
[ 
comment which appeared in the first edition of Monitor magazine. The remark was made by Jim 
Petengil of Holy Cross Hall who was alleged to have made the remark that residents of Stanford he had met in the dining hall would be damned if they were going to do anything for their hall after what it had done to them. He then said thalthatattitude was just not found in Holy Cross Hall. 
Well. Mr. Petengil, that attitude is just npt found in Stanford Hall Pither. Since the lottery was held, arrangements have been made for t•veryone who want to remain in 
Stanford Hall. This is, of ocurse, hy forced triples. The rooms here tn Stanford are built for only two p<•oplP. Consequently, three is a nowcl. But the fact remains that 
Stanford's Stuffed 

l<~ditor: 
As a resident of Stanford Hall, I'd like to take exception to a 
then• will be triples for those who want them. 
In l"ondusion. I admire Holy <·ross resident~ for making room Ior 1hos(' kickro off campus. At the ""111<' time. I feel Stanford rPstdl'nls have demonstrated a "tmng sp1ril and feeling of com­tnuntty hy forming triples. llowt•n•r. I also suggest that Jim l'l'!Pngil gPt a lwtter cross-section nf Stanford llall opinion in the dirung h;tll. Stanford residents eat 111 tlw :--:orth Dining Hall. To my 

daan..bury 
4-. 

Jerry Lutkus Editor-in-Chief  Dan BarreH Executive Editor  
NEWS:  283-1715  
EDITORIALS:  283-8661  Joe Butler  
BUSINESS:  283-7471  Advertising· Manager  

wide absorbtion of the Farley and B-P students, and that Lyons was a case in point. And the complaint still stands. The juniors of Farley and B-P deserve to be given good picks on an equal basis with only the juniors of Lyons. 
The original plan to give the Lyons juniors priveleged status over the Farley and B-P juniors, who would have to pick along with the Lyons freshmen and sophomores, was not in the spirit demanded by coeducation; the spirit of coeducation dictates that these selfish attitudes be condemned. 
Dan Barrett 
knowledge, very few Stanford · • residents eat in the South Dining HallwhereJhe Holy Cross residents 
Pat. 
Gerry Hayden 
430 Stanford 


Shopping List 
Editor: Jhe students of Notre Dame have bnce again been put between Scylla and Charybdis. We are being asked by the HPC to accept a constitution which we have already rejected twice in the form of the candidacy of Jim Clarke. On the other hand, the HPC is trying to scare the Student Body by telling us that there will be no constitution if constitution D is not passed. What frightens me the most is that I believe Pangborn's Hall President when he said that the Hall Presidents could push a grocery list through their Hall Councils. If constitution D resembles anything coherent, it's closer to a grocery list than a form of student government. Let's be logic~. Where is the HPC going to find time to design a budget, supervise the various student organization, provide student ser\'i('t'S1 hassle with the administration, and still have time to devote to their respective halls" It simply cannot be done effectively. If there was one thing to be learned from the Barkett Administration) it was that a legislative body llike the HPC1 gets nothing done. Such a 

legislature merely dissembles into various egos vainly trying to test their individual poobah power. 
The Student Body of ND has a constitution now, complete with an SBP, the SLC, the Judiciary Board, and the Board of Com­missioners. If constitution D fails, we will still have this constitution. The HPC should stop trying to fool the student Body in this way. 
Constitution D is unworkable. Let's not pass this grocery list. The Hall Councils must stand up for the students and not be pushed around by a power hungry HPC. If the present constitution has flaws, as I believe it has, we should change it with a cconstitutional convention representing all the students <including the 53 per cent voting to retain the present form of student government>. I personally hope that the third time is not a charm for Jim Clarke and the HPC. 
Sincerely, Blake Wordal 340 Stanford 

Tlw Observer welcomes all rom ,,...nh and optnrons submited in the form of let­ters. All letters must be submitted to Tlw Observer office, ancf thl'.\" lllltst be typewritten. clottl>le-spaced. and limited to ''" 111nre than two pages in lo•rtgth. Till' ( lhsPr\'er reser\'es the 
ngltt to edit letters when ·'I'Otial limitatio?ts dc>c>m 
llf"~f'SSO ry. 


Dan•t ·Ask Me Cfianges And Coeducation 
larry...,... 
Half a year. half a year. Half a year onward. Into the Valley of DuLac Rodp the three hundred and twenty-five. 
Wdl. ' Notre Dame's first year of coeducation is drawing to a dose; and. to tell the truth, not a whole lot has changed. Du Lac's manners. morals, and appearance have remained pretty much the sam<'. We all still eat with our elbows on the table, Father Burtchaell hasn't taken to keeping girls in his room, and the gold dome didn't suddenly turn pink. The 'old Notre Dame, 'it seems, has easily endured the onrush of some three hundred odd coeds. And that seems to be t'verybody's major complaint about coeducation--nothing has really changed. 
"\\'ait'll nt>xt y«'ar ... " 
Last year. of course, we all had high hopes and big tplans. When t.hings became too boring, we'd consoleJourselves withlhoughts of the future. Next ye~r. we would say to 'Pachother:, there are going to be three hundred girls, here. Then, nodding and smiling we'd stare dreamily into space. Those were the days! If someone flunked a Calculus test, or got a Dear John letter, he was more than easy for our 
R.A. 's to handle. "Just wait'll next year...," they'd begin. 
Well, I suppose that this year's women probably expected an at­mosphere different both from the one we'd planned for them and the one they found. One girl explained her reactions to me very suc­cinctly. "I like Notre Dame," she said, "but I just can't get used to being mentally undressed every time l enter history class." 
E\'I'I".Vntlt''s a Sl'xist 
~aybe ~he has a point. But students aren't the only ones guilty of sextst attitudes at Notre Dame, although they usually have the best excuse. The administration has welcomed women with a strangely closed minded hunanity. Flood lights, electric doors, and Father Hesburgh's ideas of a mandatory "visibility on campus," however necessary, have disappointed more than a few of us. 
Sometimes, you almost think that Notre Damehas setabout trans forming its coeds into three hundred individual Blessed Virgin Mary's . Every once in a while, the girls must feel like that woman on the dome--isolated, protected, gold-plated coeds who are all too aware of their "visibility on campus." Unfortunately, too many men con­sider the women of Notre Dame just as cold and unapproachable as that statue of our Lady. It's a strange and sad state of affairs. 
Tht•rl''s No Placl' Like ND 
I guess everybody has found some disappointment in coeducation. Most of last year's students haven't yet resolved their deepest frustration --just ask the guy next to you. And the women aren't much different. Except for the transferred SMC's, who have had years of sneak previews, I doubt that any girl ever imagined a place quite like Notre Dame. 
Of course. li.ke ever~ other problem I run into, I can't really come up wtth an Pffechve solution for this one.l don't really knowhow to change lor thebetter. It seems clear, however, that Notre Dame's highly masculme "p1ece of ass" attitude could do with some modification. Along those lines,.it might not hurt to stop sneering and start listening to thl' Women's Caucus, Like it or not, some of its ideas are quite good. Whatever we do, we should temper our acts with the realization that genuine change will be long hard in coming to Notre Dame. I'm afraid wp"re going to suffer from the cliched complaints of "'tokenism." "chauvinism." and "'those heartless bitches" for some tim<· to eome. 
""\\ t•"n• .\II in this Togl'lhl'r" 
In a IPss st'cular age. an appeal to Notre Dame's !'hrislian llumanisrn migh~ have solved all our problems. Now, let's just try to n•rnt•mh~·r that. hkt> a l<'_alstaff commercial. we're all in this together. .\nd ll'l s <tel accordmgly. Then. perhaps. the changes that t·opdut·atlon should bring, will come after all. 
the observer 
r d,,,,,,,,l ... 11 (11l'f'cl Ill The Observer rC'flt-ef the 
pu'''''', t "~·•· ..,·.r "''f' ,.,, twh,,lt 0f the-Pd1tOrtC\\ bOard. (.Iurn ... r ..th·c t ttu• ••IJ1111011 nt thr •nd•v•dual writ~: ..... ' ,,,,••,,. 10 11f' 1olken ol\ ··d•tortrll cornrnrnt. 
N•qhl Ed•tor ~.•'"• ""'"'·"'" 11\\"1 N1qhl Edolor ~ •• ,,..,, 1\,okl'r 
l .•your ..,. d l\r ,,,,. 
Copy£ c1tiOr\ f ! f I •, f,., r, ~··•·nl•,. M·k•· O'H,u~ 
\por 1\ Ntqht £ d•for • ,, '""~) ( .. rq,ln 
n .. v f d•lor .. ' ....•., 
l· •• · •, t' ,, ••,, ~·· ,•..trd ti,,llt• Turn 
•, ••. ;...• i ,., 
N•qhl (onhollN 
ON~ OF 7"H~ New 
6V Y.S 10/...[) ME: 1180/JI I( I 1'1(}5( 
511)" I WAS A BIT COiv'FU5£[) 8'1 IT, 
Bur I 6.1111£ IT A 
l-171/...£ THOUGHT:. 
' 


1-.1 IH& eNO, IT .11/...L­£61-15 TO BOIL-OOW!I/ 
D 11 SIHPt£ RESPa.T 
fOP. WOMeN. r JJON'T 
t1AIIt A ~ERY. . .11H.. f.OPHt5T!CA raJ MIN(),Bur rwrr soRr or 
CHANG£ SCC/'15 G00P 1"0 11£ 

'<".:'\ 

-l 
1 
Tuesday, April 10, 1973 
the observer 
5 
' 



a better way to educate 
louis hammond 
Recently the American Association for improve the quality of the student's <or "Consciousness is the home of all rest in the body ·than one achieves in deep JliJ!ht•r Education met in Chicago's Conrad teacher's lifl'. TM provides the person with knowledge." Whatever knowledge we gain sleep. Simultaneously, one experiences a Hilton for its 28th :\nnual Conference. This the knowledge of the knower. or one' basic through our sense is deposited in the home state of heightened mental awareness. This was to be an unusual session for a group nature. When one experiences this of all knowledge. Thus, all knowledge is state of consciousness, called restful whose principal concern is the improvement knowledge, the quality of his life naturally structured in one's consciousness. And awareness, is different from the common of the quality of life in the United States. improves. knowledge of the knower is easy to gain. states of deep sleep, dreaming, and waking. Usually three speakers are used in a session To clarify. objective knowledge deals only Philosophy and psychology seem to guess Other studies show meditators have faster but this ngiht was reserved for a special with knowledge that can be I'Xplainl'Cf about the knowledge of the knower. TM reaction limes, indicating "increased speaker: Maharishi Mahest Yogi. His through symbols, such as formulas and gives a direct experience of it by allowing alertness. improved coordinating between nll'ssagE' was impressive and profound words. On the other hand, subjective one to experience morl' subtle levels mind and body. reduced dullness and im­
HE' began with a simple statement: knowledge, or knowledge of the knower, is of thought until he comes to the source of all proved efficiency in perception and per­
"There is definitely something lacking in non-eonceptual and cannot be taught. Itcan thought. formance." Also, the relationship between 
E'ducation." Everyone realizes this and only be experienced by the individual. The total potential of the mind is not used. the practice of meditation and recall ability 
many have suggestions to improve it, but Psychologists say we only use about 10 per indicates that TM improves memory and 
Maharishi's plan is to fulfill all goals of cent of our capacity. But through the learning ability. 
o~.•ducalion. To do this will be simple and Without subjective knowledge , sub­practice fo fM one gradually increases the Many students and people from all walks 
easy-use the natural technique of Tan­jective values in life are missing. One can conscious capacity of his mind until it of life have realized its benefits. A few 
cendental Meditation (commonly called only understand objective values. And reaches its full potential. TM is a natural school systems have already incorporated 
TM l. He then showed how it would work. objective values without subjective values and effortless technique and can be TM into their programs and have been very 
are baseless. This baseless knowledge is easilylearned by anyone. impressed with its results. Francis 
nonfulfilling because it is incomplete, and Driscoll, superintendent of s~hools in 
People are well aware of the fact that the probably contains errors and con­Eastchester, N.Y. claims that since the 
more they study a given subject, the greater tradictions. TM develops subjedcitve In a scientific age one must be able to introduction of TM, participation students 
the field of the unknown they can see lying values and thus provides the basis for all systematically prove the benefits of a 'new' began to achieve better scholastic grades 
ahead. What is happening is the ignorance objective knowledge. idea, so Maharishi founded the Science of and improved realtions wit..h their teachers, 
of the field of study is increasing more The Maharishi went on to say that Creative Intelligence which is a science of parents, and peers. 
rapidly than the knowledge of the subject. education should be such that it makes the knower, and a basic science of all Because of the many benefits which have Education increases the thirst for "every man efficient in all aspects of his sciences. Already there is a long list of been reported by meditators and the knowledge but does not satisfy it. life." However, time does not allow one to impressive studies from many prestigious corresponding scientific evidence which This is because there are two sides to develop proficiency in all fields. But when universities <including Berkeley, Harvard, verifies their reports , there is no doubt that knowledge: the object and the knower. The one can bring into his awareness the home and Stanford> showing definite TM can be very useful in schools. It is now !present education system only provides of all knowledge, he has the basis of all physiological changes occur when one is time for all educational institutions to adopt 
~!lowledge of the object and does little to knowledge. He then explained: meditating. They indicate a deeper state of it. 

the right to palestine 
gahib amer 
Laor is Jewish other act is a sufficient reason for the Government supported Israel against the do so later.

Amer is Palestinian partition of our country. Arabs? How would Mr. Laor feel and react Indeed, Mr. Laor, your Abba Eban orAttasi and Albose are if the American Govdrnment supported the Moshe Dayan I or II will have more right toAmerican citizens Laor: We are ready to meet with Arab Nazis against the Jews? Or how would you Europe after a hundred years than theirleaders anytime any place for direct face to

t.aor: The Jewish people have a historic feel if the Arab people supported the parents or grandparents had a right to
.ace negotiations for the establishment of
right to Palestine. The bible supports their Japanese against the Americans in 1941? Palestine after two thousand years!
pemanent peace in the Middle East.
right as is affirmed in the promise to Surely, if during World War II, many 
Abraham and his children in Genesis XII:7 AmPr: As to your request Mr. Laor, that the Laor: But we have Palestine now! Jews could make a legitimate case for 
"Unto they seeds will I give this land." Arabs should meet face to face for direct wanting to leave Europe and Germany. 
negotiation, I concede that your suggestion Amp•·: Your military victory is no road to Now, there is no war or persecution and 
i\mt·•·: If the bible promises to give to the should be taken up by the Arabs at once. peace any more than the Nazi Military hence no reason for your Mr. La or to occupy 
seeds of Abraham the land of Palestine, They should be willing to meet ways and success could have paved the way toward my home and land and refuse going back to 
then surely it doesn't refer to you Mr. Laor! means by which you could be returned to peace. The only way in which Israel can Czechoslovakia. 
Nor does it refer to the majority of Czechoslovakia where you had been , and maintain peace is to occupy the entire Arab Only by evacuating Palestine and going 
J.<:uropean and American Zionist Jews. I opportunities should be provided for others world. But a more peaceful road, and in­back to your countries of origin or by 
may even go so far and admit that some of of your religion to return to their countries deed, a shorter road to peace is in the emigrating to North America, Australia 
the Jews of the West might have one or five of origin. direction of Europe and North America. If ~nd elsewhere, will peace come to the Holy 
percent "Abraham blooa." Your logic Mr. you don't return now to Czechoslovakia, Land and we shall be able to forgive you and 
La or. and the logic of your fellow Zionists is Albose: How would you feel if the American your Abba Eban I or II or III might have to other Zionists who invaded my country. 
fallacious! If fact, I am more of the seed of 
Abraham than you and most of the Jews of 
today could ever qualify. 
the magic flute
Lam·: The right of the Jewish people to 
Palestine has been recognized by the 
civilized world. In 1917 the British govern­
ment formally issued the Balfour deb batt & nan Iauer 
Declaration. Approved by America, it was incorporated in the British Mandate of A new translation of Mozart's Magic Palestine. Flute premiered last Friday night in 
O'Laughlin Theatre. .\1111'1": Mr. Attasi, is it true that the The comic opera, staged by the ND-SMC D<'claration was approved by America? Theatre in conjunction · with the Music 
Department, was a combination of fine .\ttasi: Even President Harry Truman, who vocal and dramatic talent consistent pressured the United Nations to partition throughout the performance. Palestine and who recognized the creation The operatic fairy tale, sung in English, of the JE'wish state within minutes of its centers around a prince's attempt to rescue Pstablishment on May 15, 1948 complained a princess with whom he has fallen in love in his M<'moirs of the Zionist pressure on the after one glance at her portrait. In parts it White House. a pressure IhE' like of which he was bit hard to take, for, typical of an 18th said he had not experienced during all his century Viennese opera, the storyline was ear€'er as a politician. padded with too much sentimentality. 
Although all gave fine performances, .\11wr: I don't care whether the British particularly outstanding vocal contributions <;m·<'rnm<'nl favored the establishment of a WE're made by Alicia Purcell as (~ueen of .h·wish National Home in Palestine. the Night. Carol Dzikowski as her daughter PaiE'stinE' was never a part of England just Pamina, and Bob Oppold as the prince as 1\lr. DE'Gaulle after the six years of Tamino. The Three Ladies CHeverly Beer, n·volution in AlgE'ria realized that Algeria Patricia Bingham, and Aimee Bechman) was Jl('\'<'r a part of France. Balfour him­brought a unifying element to the plot, st'lf. having sponsored the Aliens Act which in itself was subsidary to the singing larg<'ly to pr<'venl JE'ws going to England and coml'dy. was now gPnE'rnus E'nough to give Palestine. Comic rE'lief was amply provided by the 
two slaves 1Don 1-'isher and Jay Parks l, the l.anr: Lord Balfour was a great fil'ndish 1\tonostatos played by Charles humanitarian and was sympathetic with the Faliconl'. and Ralph Bruneau who stole the plight of lhl' .ll'wish p<'Opl€', whom he loved 1 show in his portrayal of the birdman. 
l'apagt•no. Bruneau's facial t•xprl'ssions. 
\11wr: Balfour lov<'d England. not thE' JE'WS ,·oicl'. and costume made him the focal point uo~r lhl' :\rahs. :\1 anv ralt•. hl' had no right on slagl'. In nfft•r l'alt•stim• to-anvom• :-.;or did thE' :\I!hough op<'ning night lent itself to spotty l.t·agut• of :-.;alinns. nor ·lht• l"nill'd StalE'S. m•scaleulations. thE' lt•t·hnil·al, syn­I';llt•slnw lwlnngt•d In its IX'opll' not to l"hronizalion of l<ll'hard BE'rgman's special uUhlclt•rs of any kind. If lhl' l"nill'd :-.;ations l'ffl'l·ts. and thl' lTE'ahv€' costuming made dt•t"llh•cl In part it ion lht• hugl' ll'rrilory of llw op<"ra a display of l'nchanling spec­. \Iaska and gin· a portwn of it to lhl' tadt•s . Hu~s1ans on lhl' grounds that it had ~lost of lhl' ;tudil'nCE' left thE' performance lwlongt·clto Huss1a or on anyolht•r grounds. s111~111~ 1ls praisl'S lh;111 I ;un ~un· till' :\nll'nl"an pt'flph• would Tll"kt•ls for lhl' April 12th. 13th. and J.llh ""]'"'"' Just a~ \II" nhJt't"l In lht• parl1l10n of pnform;uwt•s arl' availablt• on thE' St. ..ur l"nunln ;md llw dt•sJgn In g1n• a pnrlum "ary·s t"<tmpus mlhl' t•rogramnung OUicl', "' th;al l;and In 1111' (;t•rm;ms ;111d l'oh-s. ""~"~'<Ill 11;111 or from -1·6 o'clock in the t:u"1;111~ .11ul Enl-!ll~hnll"n llkt· yourst•lf :-.;ot ll"l..;•ughhn Box Ofhl'l' Ht•S('f\'allons may till' f;u·l lh;1l IIH"~t· pt'flplt• ;1n· Jt•ws or ;my ht• m;Hh· hy !";tllm.: 28-14176 ~· · 

r ­
t  the observer  Tues day, April 10, 1973  
r  
[  Grade Com mittee will meet Thurs. morning  

h~· .I im l.indsa.v Starr H•·portf'r 
A liberalized vt•rsion of the pass­tail t·ourse option and an increase 111 tht• minimum grade-point ;twragP n•quired of freshmen highlight thP mt•eting of the t"nivPrsitv <;rade Committee Thursday ;norning. 
First on tht• Committee's agenda 1s diseussion of any form of pass­tail option. If the option program is o·ndorst•d. the t·ommittee will then · •·viPw a proposal passed last May I>\ tlw Arts and Letters College 1.-..uneil which asks "that the pass­1a II opt ion lw amPnded to allow a 
.tudt•nt to receive his earned letter l.'.radt• in a course previously oll'signatPd pass-fail. if the student 
" rpqucsts prior to two weeks lll'fon• the last dass day of the t'!lll'slt•r.'' 
Should the proposal be endorsed hv tht• <;rade Committee, it would tlil'n he sent to the Academic 


Lack of funds threatens to close N.I.C.H. 
Nt•il Uosini has proposed a change in poss-.fail polic.v which gives the slwl••nl "\\'hat he has already 
I'CII"III'lf." 
Council for a final ruling. 
SPnior Neil Rosini, author of the proposal. noted that the passage of such a proposal would end the 
h~· .Jim (;J"('SS('I" Starr Ht•po•·tt>r 
Thl' Northern Indiana Children's llospital will soon close down if the Indiana State Sl'nate passes a bill this wt•ek to cut off funds to the hospital. 
The Notre Dame-St. Mary's chaptt>r of MANASA, a student \"olunteer group which does much \\"ork at NICH. has organized a ll'l tt•r-telegram campaign to the slafp sl'nators from this srea, urging them to work to keep the hospital open. 
Aeeording to Bruce Hooper, l'n•sident of the MANASA chapter, tlw st>nate rl'ft•rred two billbs to l'OilliJliltet• last week. one that would eonvert NICH from a hospital to a training center, and mw that would virtually close it down. 
Tlw latter provides for the alloeation of $400,000 to NICH for tlw 1974 fiscal year. beginning this 
.July  I.  Eric  Ward,  program  
din•clor  for  NICH,  stated  
~·t•sterday  that those funds would  

last the hospital for about four months at its present operating eosts. 
This same bill would allocate only two dollars to NICH for fiscal 1!)75. 
lloopl'r was optimistic because the hill can be amended and he pointed to the promise of Governor 

Planned schedule released ho,l;~.es,~·~ded. 
however. that the 

for spring commencement 
The tentative program of events for this Spring's Notre Dame Commencement Exercises has been released by Senior Class President Jim Hunt. 
Lasting from Friday, May 18 to Sunday. May 20, the schedule is as follows: 
ti: :lO p rn. Con('t>rt -University 1\and -!\lpmorial Library Mall. rlf wPalht•r is inclement, the l"Oill'l'rt is l'ancelled. l H·oo pm. I'Ia~ -"Ynu'rt> A (;ood 
\lan. ( "har1it• Bnmn" -O'Laughlin \ 11d1torium Saint :\larv's College. Trd;pt,; may be pu~chased in 
111 1111 ;1m HOT(" ,("mnmissionin~ 1 t'l"o·nron\ -.\lhll'ltl" and Con­
\ lll"<illon  ('pntPr  An·na  -South  
I Iomt •  
'  1111 pill  In :1  :10 p m  I nin·r'it'  

l:no·ption . Ill lht· 1"111\"l'rsit~· \dn1111t~lratwn ·Ill lht' ('pntt>r for 1·,.111111111111.! 1-:dut"atlon Farnrlil's of rlw n;rd11al1·~ an· t"ot dtall\· 1m·itPd 
; 1.-, I' 111 \t·atlt·mit· l'n''''s'inn l ... l..!ln~ \lltil'llt" and ('om·()(·ation 1 •·lllt·r \orlh I lomo· 5 :00 p.m. to 6:15 p.m. Hac­t·alaun•ate Mass -Athletic and Convocation Center Arena -South Dornl'. moly Communion will be clistributed.) Blt>ssin~ of tht> Flag-Presented by the Class of 1973. 
ti::lO p.m. to 7:30p.m. Ht>ct>ption and BuHt>t Binnt>r -Athletic and ('onvocalion Center. 1Tickets for each must be pur­l'hased in advance.) 
H::HI p.m. <"ont·prt -llniversity of 
· 
:\ntn• I>amt> Glee Club -Stepan 
H·.!O p 111 Play-··You'rt> a (;ood \tan. <"harli•· ISnmn"-()'Laughlin .\uditorium -Saint Mary's College. 
r Tit"kPts ;r<h·ant'P.t  may he  purchased in  
S unda.\  
1·1111  p 111  llip1nma  llistrihution  - 

.\thll'tlt' and Convocation ('pntl'r ­\orlh llonw 
I :lfl Jllll \t·ad•·mit· l'ruf••,sion IH'gin' · .-\thll'ttt· and Com·oeation ( 't•nft·r. :\orth llon11· 
2 .()() p Ill ("II lllllli'IH" I' 1111' n ( 
Athlet1e and <"11nnK·ation ('etner Arena · ~nuth Donw 
Cinema '73 presents 


'La Femme lnfidele' 

by Chabrol 
~Aud. 8 & 10 pm 
'J00 
Cinema '13 patrons FREE 

anguish of many students who-<;rad£' Commill£'e will JJs<.•Jss 
dist·ov£'r they are earning a grade of A or B in a t•ourse which they havt• committed themselves to take pass-fail. <luitt• optimistic about the proposition's hopes for success. Hosini considers the pass-fail H·vision a very reasonable proposal. "Tiwr£' are more arguments for it than against it." said Rosini. "!"hid of which is the fact that the l"hangP gives the student nothing mnrP than what he has already t•anwd... 1\lany faculty ml'mbers. howP\"Pr. have vel to be convinced of the proposal's immediate nt•cpssitv. Assistant Arts and Ll'ltPrs Ikan Hichard J. Thomp­son r£'marked. "Wl' should con­tinue to operate the program as it now :>lands for a couple more years hl'fore investigating the possibility of any changes." The second item which the 
<llis Bowmlokeep NICH alive as a promising sign. He feels that Bowpn's pfforts supported by the n•sponse of area citizens and the assistanee of South Bend state sPnator Burnette Bauer may change the fate of NICH. 
!looper added that while he was \"l'rv thankful to those who have <tlJ·eady sent telegrams and letters to Indianapolis. he urges their continued support. He said that this piece of legislation came as "a shoek to t•verybody." 
Ward said lhat although the 1noney for NICH may be cut off, he has been told that money from other sources could be available ll"hich would allow for the placemmt of some of the children into foster homes or for the provision of smaller "group t·onc£'rns th£' po,sJbility of raising tlw minimum grade point average n•quirPd of freshm£'n for academic good standing from 1.7 to 2.0. the minimum (;J>A required of sophomor£'s. juniors. and seniors. 
Endorsemt•nt of such a change \I"Ould again lw viewPd only as a n•t·omnwndation to the Academic 
<'ouneil.  wlwn•  a  final  decision  
would lw made.  
Should  such  a  requirement  

n·vision ha\'l' Pxistl'd during the t!l71-72 school yl'ar. an additional 1-1-1 ln•shnwn would have found thPmsplvps on academic probation. 
Early faculty opinion indicates that the proposal would have to undPrgo a far more thorough in­n•stigation bl'fore any approval might he grantl'd. 
Frpshrnan Year Dean Emil T. Hofman pointed out. "As a straightforward proposal. I am against it. Much further discussion 
Bend and a demonstration. lloopPr also said that he is trying to gd tlw University President. Fr. Tlwodorp IIPsburgh, and Director of Student Volunteer Services, Fr. llavid Schlaver. to send telegrams to (;overnor Bowen telling the governor "t•xactly what we sup­port... 
SpPaking of the general attitude of tlw Indiana legislature toward mpntal rl'lardation. Hooper said, "I think their appropriations for nH'ntal hl'alth are far too low ... The pPople who are affected by it cannot eomplain because they are Joeked away....People have to be voeal for those who can't be 
\"0(':1 I... 

wnulcl b(' r('quired before I would lw 111 favor of it." 
Tht• l"nivl'rsitv (;rade Com­mJllt•(' eonsists. of Assistant Provost William 1\f. Burke. l"ni\"l•rsity HPgistrar Hichard Sullivan. Administration DPan Leo \1 ('nrhal'i. Arts and Ll'tlers Dean FrPclt•rick .J. Crosson. Business .-\dministration l>Pan Thomas T. \lurphy. College of Science Dean llt-rnard Waldman. Freshman \"par llt•an Emil T. Hofman. and :\nt n• l>anw sl'niors J<:d Ellis and Fn•d <;iuffrida. all of whom are also mt•mhPrs of the Academic ( 'ouncil. 
Thursday's nweting of the Grade ('nmmittee will be its first of the ~Par. No prl'vious meetings have ntTurred clue to the Academic ( 'ounci l's work on a revi~ion of the :\ntn• Dame Academic Manual. 

WhAT'S ThE RELiGiOUS LiFE Lil{E? 
Ask tire Men Wlro Know 
Contact: Fr. Andrew CHemi, 0. Praem. Holy Cross Hall, 107 UNO tele: 283-6185 
highest number of children that could lw assisted by this type of funding is thirty. This would leave over one hundred of the the hospital residents to be re-situated in less favorable conditions in largt•r state institution. 
Ward cited as possible reasons for the kgislature's action stems from tlw NICH's high operating costs. But this he attributes to the hospital's J)('rsonalized attention and tlw fact that the plant has not hPPn nwintained as well as it might ha\"l' lwen. 
\\"ard fPit that tht• ll'gislature !'hould givl' llw NICH staff. onlv ;lpJlOilltl'd \\"ithin the last fe..\• 111onths. a fair chance to prove I ht•msPln•s. 
Tht· good rt>lations between \I<'II and tlw :\ll-!llSR eom­tnunitit•s. \l·hich pro\"idp much \ olunll'l'l" !'t·n·icP lo tlw hospital. is ~·1•ing In ht> lost. \\"ard said. "if we lt•l this in!'titution go undt•r." 
··This is IIH• ll"rong tim<' to think ;tl•oul t·losing \ H"ll ... Ward said. 
llnopt'r slatt'd that if tlw St•natt• 
,.llllllllllll'l'\ n•t·omnH'rHiation is 
11111 'inl;rhlt·. his organization will 
phnlurllwr at"!1nn lit• nH·ntiorwd 

THE MAGIC FLUTE 
l 
Till-: NOTHE DAME-SAINT MARY'S THEATRE 1\lozart"s l'omic opera l'mdut·Pd in association with the St. Mary's College Music llo•pt April 6,7,12,13,14 at 8:30p.m. 
()'Laughlin Auditorium. St. Mary's 
Students -Faculty -Staff $2.00 Reservalions: 284-4176 
ND-SMC PRE ·EASTER SPRING RETREAT 
an experience in Christian living Saturday April 14 1 Oam-12midnight SMC Clubhouse 
for more info call: 
Fr. Roger Cormier 5389 Mary Gail Peterson 4494 Fr. Tom Stella 7323 or 6536 
~ 
Tuesday, April 10, 1973 the observer 
7 ~ 
l 1




Proposed office in UN for Viet Cong rejected 
1 
l 
b' 1\athlt't'n Tf'ltsch c r 1 ·l9i:l :\f'" \'ork Tlmn 

l'nitt"d :\allons. :\.\'.·The Viet Con~ han• been informed by S<•<'r<'larv (;<'neral Waldheim that th<'y eaimot open a diplomatic offi<"<' at the llnited Nations for the Provisional Revolutionary (;overnm<'nt. qualified sources said today. They said legal con­sidt.'rations were given by Waldheim for rejecting the request for an office. 
llow<'ver. the decision clearly 
•has political implications. ~Irs. :\J!uyen Thi Rinh. the Foreign ~linister or the provisional I!OV<'rnment. publicly announced in Paris on March 30 that she had I t·hos<·n,l diplomat to represent the 
\"i<'ICong here. 
Th<' United States. which has opposed the idea of a \'it•! Cnng offic<' from the outset. has re­<'nforced its objections in recent days and had privately told Waldhf'im it would n·fuse visas to \"i<•l CcmJ! representatives on the basis that they did not represent a 

Commission were shot down Commisssion of Control and 
Saturday because they had strayed Supervision, two Vietcong liaison 
off course. officers and three crewmen, two of Only hours before the official, lhemAmericans,werekilledwhen Maj. Gen. Duncan MacAlpine, one of the helicopters was hit by a made his remarks yesterday, missile and crashed into the side of another peace-keeping. helicqpter a mountain. was shot at in the Mekong Delta. 'The Vietcong admitted firing In that incident. a helicopter of the missile but said the incident the two-party joint Military occurred because the helicopters Commission excorting an ln-were off course. ternational Control Commission MacAlpine dismissed the 
5512!111111111111112!122111221111H22122111111111122111221111111122111111111111112211111111111DIIIIIIII2!1221111•1 
Welte endorses Garrett 
This year's student body elections will result in the institution of a new form of student.governance. It is of utmost importance that the new offices be a closely coordinated body of students who have a sound working knowledge of the structure and ac­tivities of student government. This comes only with past ex­perience in the structure. The office of Student Affairs Com­missioner is integral in the functioning of the new Student Board of Governance. Of the two candidates for this position, I believe that Joanne Garrett clearly has the direct experience necessary for leading and coordinating the functions of that office. Given the above. 1 endorse Joanne Garrett for Student Affairs Com­missioner. 
Susan Welte President of SMC Student Body 

1111112211111221111111HIIIIIIIIIII2!12!111221221111111111112!111111111111..._111111111111111U-IIIIIIIIR 
St. Mary's students will elect government today 

Saint Mary's students vote today on candidates for the newly l'reated student Board of Gover­nance with only one of the four hoard positions contested. 
Voting is today in the residence halls from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. anti students must present their ID's to \'Ole. 
All four classes may vote, ac­cording to Student Body Vice­President Sue Oglesbee; election t·ommittee rhairman.. There had h('<'n somP speculation that the s(•niors would be prohibited from ,·oting. 
Oglesbee also emphasized wsh•rdav that all candidates are ;-unning independently; there are no l'oalitions. Write-in candidates ;m• p(•rmitt<'d. she said. although notw IHIV<' d<'clared any intention of running. 
l'nd<'r th<' new system of 

gm·<·rnm<•nt. the former positions 
of stud<•nt body president and vice­
pn•sid<'nl will he replaced by a 
hoard of !'om missioners ronsisting 
of a l'hairman of the board hall life 
l'Ommission. a student affairs 
t•omrnissioner. and an academic 
affairs commissioner. 
('urn•nt Student Affairs Com­nnssion<'r Barb !\I<"Kiernan is running unt·onl<'sled for the job of t·hairman of lh<' board. Her position 111 student affairs will be fillffi hv t•ither Joanne Garrett or :\tonica· Stallworth. 
Regina Hall President Ann Smith is running uncontested for Hall Life Commissioner and Tess Lehman is uncontested for Arademic Commissioner. 
A simple majority is required to win. f<~lections for class offices, student assembly, and hall posts will be held early in May. 
A l'ontroversy developed around t hl' <'l<•<·t ion last night when Monica Stallworth. one of the candidates tor studPnt affairs commissioner. rl'lt•as!'d a statem<'nt in the dining h;tlls listing supporters drawn lrom tlw nwdia and student .L!on•rnnwnt at hoth Notre Dame and Saint 1\lary's. After the ,..tal<'m(•nts W('rl' distributed. st'\'('ral p<•rsons ineluded on thl' list ('nnlaett'd llw f<:l(•etion Committee to withdraw their support and dt•t·lan· rwutralitv. Some elaimed to han• gin•n Stallwroth verbal ,..upport. hut they had no idea that tht'ir nanws would I)(' included on a put.lie list and lh<'y did not wish to ;rppt•ar as sp<•aking on h<'half of tlwir orj!anization. 
.-\mong !host• d<'elaring m·utrality Wt'l'l' Hl'gina Ivory. l.t':\lans llall pr!'sid<'nl; K<'vin n·:'\l'ill. \\'S:\D dist· jOl·key; !\lary .larl('a and :\lary Egan. Obsl'rH'r r(•porlt•rs: .Jud\' 1-'ong. S<'cretarv of tht· \otrt• n:rrnP·S;rint ~l;rrv's lnlt·rnaI ion;rl St udt•nt Associati~n: ;rnd ,..onu· fn·shnwn from first. .,,.,·orul. third. and fourth floor t­'' I Ill!. lloly I'ross Hall. 

~tovernmt'nt. 
Tlw dh·<·t of Waldheim 's 
nosponst' m·<·ordin~ to diplomatic 
soun·t's is that lht' l'nited Statt'S 
tltl('S nnt han• to pursut' its threat 
In rdus<• a ,·isa to :'\J!uyt'n \'an 
Tit•!. tlw diplomat pil-kffi hy 1\lrs. 
Binh In reprt's<'nt lh<' \'it'tCong. 
Tht• t'nih•d 1:'\ations spokesman 
nmfirnwd that tht' r<'sponse to !\Irs. Binh had been conv.eyed but refused to sav what Waldfteim's reply was or. even how it WS.." transmitted. "I do not think it will he made public." the spokesman. 
ICCS rejects Viet Cong reasons for downing of two helicopters 
by S~·Jvan Fox Ht'licopter came under small arms Vietcong, saying that "surely this 
<(') New York Times fire over a Communist-held area. is no excuse." 
The Military Commission He said the helicopters bore 
Saigon. Tul'sday--The highest Helicopter was slightly damaged, distinctive markings--silver and ranking Canadian Military official but no one was reported injured. black coloring, lumnescent green here has rejected Vietcong claims In the incident that occurred on stripes and white I.C.C. S. letters-­that two helicopter of the In-Saturday, nine men, including four and were clearly recongnizable. ternational Peace-Keeping representatives of the international from the ground. 
"People who want to see things in the air have the optical equip­ment to see," he said. "A properly-marked I.C.C.S. Helicopter was the victim of 
sustained fire causing tragic loss' of live." 
MacAlpine made his comments at the news conference at Tan­sonhut Airport immediately after his return from Gio Linh, where he and other commission officilas had arranged for the recovery of the 11 
survivors of the incident and the bodies of seven of the nine victims. 
MacAlpine described the recovery of the bodies and return of the survivors as "a bargaining session" with the Vietcong, because the Communists wanted the I.C.C.S. officials to sign papers containing "certain suggestiveness" about what had taken place. 
It was understood that the Vietcong, who have repeatedly referred to the helicopter shootings as "a regretable-accident" sought to obtain statements from the International Control Com­mission absolving them of blame for the incidents. The Commission officials refused to sign such statements. 
"We signed for our people and the remains of our people and that is all we signed," general MacAlpine declared. 
MacAlpine said an investigation had been launched to clear up some of the details of the a'c­
eident. 
He said the survivors had told him that the two helicopters were flying, one behind the other, from Gio Linh to Lao Bao on the Laotian border to inspect new control eommission facilities there. 
AI some point--precisely where is still a matter of contention--the rear helicopter came under small arms fire. Moments later,the front helicpter was struck by a missile. 
The pilot in the second helicopter saw the first "go POW and a ball of flam(•." said MacAlpine. 
The helicopter struck by the missile. then crashed into a mohntainside. killing all on board. Tlw other helicpter landed some distance away "in rather d(•sperate l'ir<"umstances" but no one aboard was injured. the gener.al siad. 
The survivors SJ)('nt Saturday night in a small Vietcong Hamlet and \\'t'l'l' tak<'t' the next night to <;io Linh where they were ultimatelv turned over to the !.D.D.S. ~fficials yesterday. 
Tlw Vietcong claim the lwli!'oplt•rs were supposed to be following a four-kilometer-wide l'orridor along route 9 from Gio Linh to Lao Bao according to the \'iPI<'ong, the aircraft "met with an a<Tident" at least 25 kilometers south of this <"orridor. 
:\1:'\aeAlpine said that "one of th(• nm·ial questions of the in­n·stigation" was the Vietcong daim that the flights were sup­posed to follow this corridor along Houle 9. 
William C. Powell. said. 
lfowl'ver. the legal arguments l!i\·en for refusing the VietCong request wl're learned from other sources and centered principally on the point that the provisional rl'\·olutionary government was not <I ml'mber or the United Nations or any specialized agencies in the l'nited Nations family. 
By long-standing practice, <·ountries which are not members of the llnited Nations itself have heen permitted to have observer offic<'s here if they belong to any agency such as the World Health Organization. or The United Nations Educational. Scientific and Cultural Organization. 
The Federal Republic of Ger­many has had such an office for 10 years; East Germany opened one as soon as it was admitted to liNESCO. Such offices give these countries access to meetings and documents, but more important for most is that they permit representatives to circulate freely on the diplomatic scene. 
The second legal objection 
CLASSIFIED FIDS 
WANTED 

Need ride to Cleveland April 18. ca II Beth or Jan 4679 
Two need ride to MILWAUKEE Fri. Apr. 13. Call Paul --8276 or Rick 8284. 
Need rider to Lauderdale or that direction . this Thursday -?. Larry 3245. 
Ride wanted, lo-from Bloomington; 13-15 calli Sue, 3607. 
Wanted: Housing ac­commodations tor faculty coming for Summer Program in Pastoral and Social Ministry · June 24 ­July 21. One family . 2 children; one family -6 children; week of July 8 -one family; 4 children. Call Msgr. John Egan's office 283­3293. 
Riders needed to D.C. area. Leaving Wednesday, April 18. Call Steve, _1059. 
Need ride to Cleveland for Easter, can leaveTuesday afternoon, April 17. Call Greg 1336. 
Need ride to Phita. S. Jersey for Easter Break. Call Ken 3679. 
Wanted . Skiers to go to ASPEN, Colorado will leave Friday 13 afternoon. Free rooms, call Peter Hellard at 288-0591. 
Housemates  wanted  for  the  
summer.  House  is  walking  
distance from campus.  Call 233­ 

9616, ask for Don or Jack. 
We need summer housing for 4. Will sublet. Call 7812. 
Ride lo East Lansing.on April 18, call 8423. 
Two quys need housemate from SPpt. '74 thru Dec. '74, 1st semester only. Call Rich at 272­8i89. 
Wilnted: 3 roommates, Srs, L<1rqe house, great location, huge double, big single. Call Denny 3180 or Chris 233-4931, address 1035 N.D. Ave. 
LOST AND FOUND 

lost: plaidhat' in 105 Bus. Bldg Cilll Beth 4679 
L<~sl. Gold Seiko walch, reward. PIIOile 8845. 
Loo;t: Wire rimmed glasses in or.1nqe case. Round shape. Call 
Julie 233 9209. 
round: heagte puppy, brown & while -;pols has collar. Kevin 783 3876. 
Lo'il AI Soph Literary Party W•·clnrsday navy blue long 
rcllllCO(lf. 4140 . 
Lo<;l "' Beach Boys Concert 
llrow•> 'houlder baq. Would ap­prl:'coalr '' it vou would alleast rP!urn CJiilSSes o1nd 10. Reward, 
•o Que,toons asked. Call 8001. 
PERSONALS 

Rode n('edl'd to NYC or Conn. Can !rave ,lnyt•mr o1fler April 13th. 
( ·'" o.wr )679 
mt'ntioned for refusing :\Irs. Binh's requt'St by some delegates here was that the South Vietnamese had an observer office here. and in Pffect. the \'iet Cong would be trying to represent the same l'ountry. The Republic of South \'i<'tnam belongs to 13 t:nited :'\ations agencies. 
The matter of a Viet Cong office has been an awkward one for Waldheim since he first disclosed that the idea was discussed during Ius talks with Mrs. Binh in Paris. where he attended the VietNam l'<'ace Conference. 
Spcreatry of State William P. Hogers. when told of Waldheim 's disclosure. immediately expressed AmPrican objections. While the \'iet Cong were acknowledged to he a party to the conflict and to the treaty agreement. the United States has insisted that they never have been recognized as a government and that the United Sta_tes was opposed to any effort whtch could seem to give them such status -such as an observer office. 
FOR SALE 

Must Sell! ~orful Blizzard Totals W-marker bindings. 195cm. Used only one ~eason. Doug 234-7556, best offer. 
srereo: Claricon, AM-FM, head phones, 40 wt. output, $70. 1861. 
For Sale: Otds 88 Convert. AM­F M $600 or offer. Call John 1592. 
For Sale: Sony 6045 reciever and pair of Dynaco A-25 speakers 7 months old, call 8423. 
For Sale: 2 Dynaco A-25's $95; 1 Panasonic 8-lrack player $35; 1 Lafayette R K -890A 8 track recorder-player $95; 1 Metrotec Equalizer $65; 1 Pioneer Sx 9000 $275 and much more Call 272-1709. 
For Sate 1971 Norton roadster-750 cc great condition 2000 miles. Be prepared to spend $$, call Mark 289-5940. 
1972 Honda CB 450 1800 miles excellent condition. Rick 1437. 
For Sale . Ping-Pong table. Boughten at Christmas, very good condition. Call 233-3893. 
For Sale: VIVITAR 135mm Telephoto lens, 2.8 with case. (fits Nikon mounts) $50. Call Rick 8284. 
WANT TO BUY TICKETS FOR THE WHITE SOX OPENING GAME? WILL SELL TWO TICKETS AT LESS THAN THE $10 COST. CALL JERRY AT 8810 OR BUTCH AT 1240. MUST SELL! 
Two $5.50 James Taylor tickets $10.00, call 287-6010. 
NOTICES 

Typing expereinced in essays, dissertations, term papers, theses. Phone 232-9061. 
Experienced lypist, will do: term papers, manuscripts, call 233­6909. 
N D Students and Faculty! 
Brcause the response was so qrear lo our lasl 2 ads we are now offering 15 per cenl off on all rune­ups and olher repairs. Call 272­9676 ,,nylime or stop by Rollin' Wheels Sunoco 17955 State Road 23 (,,cross «rom Greenwood's Shopping Center.) 
FOR INFORMATION ABOUT GAY AWARENESS COM MUNITY, CALL 7789W Th-F, 8 10 
prn. 
C,1lifornia Club flight to LA May 
16. O•lly S68.30 Badin Travel Aqency, siqn up deadline Thurs. Apr. 12. Information 8282, 7080. 
Morrissey Loan Fund closinq April 27. P.1y all oulsranding Loans. All unpaid debts will be 
•urnrd over lo Sludent Accounts wolh rx tra SS.OO chilrge. 
FOR RENT 
~ hedroorn house, wall ro Willi <Mpelinq, completely furnished, o>('M campus, GrildS Only 289 2461. 
W'"'' privacy? Rooms ~0 mo. 
133 1329. 
Tuesday, April 10, 1973
the observer 





Buggers win 6th. down unbeaten Terrapins 30-7 
The Notre Dame rugby team tackled the MarMand fullback into notched its sixth win of the season the goalposts forcing a fumble. this past weekend with a 30-7 Dave Simpscm fell on the ball for a triumph over previously un-try and O'Connell scored to give ddeated University of Maryland. NI> a !Hl lead. The Terps came The Terrapins came to South Bend hack;to narrow the margin to 6-3 on with a 5-0 record and were highly a penalty kick but the game was confident of defeating the Irish on never close after that. Giorgio used their hom<> field. Instead the Terps his spPed to score two trys within were the victims of the best Irish the span of a few minutes and pffort of the season. O'Connell's conversion upped the 
The NotrP Dame serum gave Irish lead to 16-3. Greiwe scored a away much size to Maryland but few minutes later on a fine run and the visitors could never take ad-O'Connell again converted to give vantage of it. Led by the play of ND a 22-3 margin. Pete Frantz also LPe J>allardy. the hard-hitting added a try to make the score 26-3. Irish serum completely over-Maryland got on the board late in powPrcd the Terps. Maryland was the initial half, adding a try to forecd into bad and misplayed dose their offensive effort for the 
kicks and never seemed to get on day. track. The Irish controlled every Greiwe scored his second try phase of the game, including the midway through the final half on 
s<>t serums where Bob Olsen, Doug passes from Frantz and John Snwgo, and Ed O'Connell won <ireving to wrap things up for the practically every hook, and the Irish. The rest of the half was lineouts where Dan Lee, Jerry scoreless as the defensive teams Hazer. and Pallardy managed to took charge and the Irish had their outjump the taller Terps. sixth win in seven starts. 
The Irish backs played their,. Notre Dame's "B" team 
usual fine game and were lei\. by remained undefeated as it crushed Hl•rb Giorgio and Don Greil.Ye who the Maryland "B's" 30-Q. The scored two trys each. junior Terps made it close for a 
Notre Dame came ow swarming while but the Irish eventually in the first half and ifdn't quit for overwhelmed their opponents. the entire 40 minutes first period. Some fine tack.ling, running, and a The Irish scored cfll'fy when Smego balanced scormg attack enabled 
the tnsn .o outdistance Maryland. 
Vic Dorr .==~===;;:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=======================::;;-.;;;::-»»;.-»>*-~-»~m~ 

The Irish Eye 
::=================>==========================================:=:=:=:=:=============================:NIT 

postscript 
A l<>lter arrived in yesterday's mail. Dated March 31st, it was post­marked' Blackburg. Virginia, and bore a Virginia Tech return address. 
The letter was written by a friend, one knowledgable about the game of basketball. and even though it dealt entirely with last month's National Invitational Tournament, it was entirely free from vindictive comments of any sort. 
Hat her. because of its friendly nature, the letter was complimentary in tone-both towards coach Digger Phelps' Irish cagers and towards the game they played against the Gobblers in the NIT finals. 
·'If we had not won. 1really wanted the Irish to. I was glad to see you in the finals. especially since everybody said you were asked only to draw at the gate. 1 was really impressed with tbP ·way they (the Irish) clobbered 
U.N. C.: your team has a lot of class-and I think Shue was terrific and \'ery de;erving of the MVP award." 
But there was more to it than that; more than sportsmanship and compliments. There was also a look at coach Dan Devoe and his Fi~hting Gobblers-and analysis that made Tech's slim margin of victory 192-91 l on a last-second overtime shot> seem almost necessary. For the letter portrayed the Gobblers as a team similar to the Irish in coaching and seasonal performance. 
"At the beginning ofthe season. I thought we would be lucky to win half of our games. But Devoe must really be a fantastic coach, because our team really has no talent. When we beat Ohio State-at Columbus-by ten. I /~ind of thought we might be going places. But then we lost to Rich­mond and Toledo. and we were lucky to get an NIT bid." 
Labelling Tech as a team with "no talent" may be somewhat unfair­;~s tlw tourney performances of Bobby Stevens, Craig Lieder, and Allan Birstm\· might indicate-but the Gobblers did battle through a regular st•ason similar to Notre Dame's. Tech, picked to be little more than a .500 dub befor<> the campaign began. caught fire at mid-season and even nurt ur<>d NCAA hopes before the losses to Toledo and Richmond. 
ThP Irish. of course. started out much worse than .500. They lost six of llwir fit·sr se\·en games. and J,,st key mid-season outings to Fordham and 1>uke hefore rallying. as did the Gobblers. to earn an NIT bid. 
.\nd l'\·en in the tournament the teams enjoyed similar good fortune­untillhl'v l'ollided in the finals. North Carolina and Minnesota were the pn•-touritey favorites. hut Alabama toppled the Gophers and was in turn t•dgPd hy \'1'1 in lht• sl•mifinals. The Irish. in their semifinal bracket.• dumped t:.N.C.. the otht•r t·n-fa\'orite ' 
Thl'n :'\I> and Tt•eh nwt in the finals. and the similarities became even rnon• app;m•nt Four points separated the teams at the half. and no points 'l'parall'd tlwm at th<> Pnd of regulation. With one second left in the first o\·t·rlrmt•. !hough. Bobby Stevens put an end to the resemblance. His 15­foMtlt•r from thP right side left the Irish nne second and two points short of a dn·am st'iiSnll. ;111d the story·hook ending. instead. belonged to Virginia Tt•t·h 
.. Who•11 I talk tn rwnple up hPre about "'inning the ~:ame. all you hear is ·ut~hi'IIPI'Cihl••. 1ncr,.dible. 1can't believe it actually happened.' This is the l:ro·all·.~t thtnJ! ,.,.,.n to happPn to sports in Virginia. It made front page l!f'ndlrno·.~ 1n lh•• R1ch mond paper." 
Tht' (;ohhh•rs wrll be reaping the benefits of their championship for a long lllllt' '" comt•. hut tht•lrish. also. stand to gain from lhl' contest. f'or 1ht•t·onstant t•xpusure l'nach l>1gger Phl'lps' basketball program received durrnl! :'\IT wt't•k t'iln only enhanee :'\D's recruiting efforts. 
Fnr huth tht•lrrsh and thP (;nbhlers.though. nne benefit-that of having p;•rlrt'IJJ.<ttt'tl rn a thrilling. one·point title game between t\1.-o ovl'r· "lu·hlllllJ! undt•rd•~s wiiS tmnwdiate 
/th1nl: 11 ,.-a~ thr clolll'lll and ma)'bl' the best tame ,..e ha\·e e\·er seen. Ju•l th1nk al>nut 11 .1t'a ama:int. No onl' could han• thoul(ht if pauible. .,,., h,, ,,.() 1n thl' /lilT /lna/11 Ir really looks trl'al... 
Jl chd "luuk J!rt•at••_ ;end fur a pair of Stnlllar lt.'ams with simt)ar n·a~m!>.ll ~·;tslht•unly ~">'·really. lurtheyt.'ar to end 

l. 

Scoring for ND were Joe Delois, Fred Manley, Terry McCarthy, Sean McDonald, Terry Kadyszewski, and Pat Krueger. John Mcintyre added six points on three conversions. 
The Irish travel to Cleveland this weekend to face John Carroll. The 
OBSERVERnext home game is April 28 against the defending college champs Palmer College. 


SPORTS
Irish baseball cancelied again 
by Stan Urankar 

One of these days, Notre Dame is going to play a baseball game at 
UM downs netman Cartier Field. And at the rate the South Bend weather is going, the 
by John Fineran Chris Kane a 7-5, 6-2 loss while above statement could become a .Mark'Reilly was DeJesus' victim,dassic in Ripley's Believe It or "If tuck Slager keeps playing 6-2' 7-5. Notre Dame's John 
:'\lot. 
like this, he'll be in shape for Carrico lost probably the most 
The Irish were once again 
football," Coach Tom Fallon said. disappointing match of the day at stymied in their efforts to begin the number-four, 6-7.5-7 to Michigan's
Fallon did not mean to imply
1973 home season as rain and snow Big Ten champ, Kevin Senich.
that the freshman from Columbus,
forced cancellation of today's 
Brandon Walsh and Rob Schefter
Ohio is out of shape. Slager has
scheduled doubleheader with 
also had bad luck, but each looked
been commuting between the
Michigan State. That raises NO's good in defeat.
gridiron and tennis courts all
season total or rainouts to eight 
spring, and yesterday was no
games. The Irish -.couple tandems also
exception. Slager did not even
"It really gets annoying because proved no match for the
know that he would be playing
you want to play baseball so bad Wolverines as Notre Dame lost all 
today until he was informed that
you can taste it," said Irishman three in straight sets.
.footballcoach Ara Parseghian had
Tom Hansen "We lost two games with Hillsdale that could have been 
decided to cancel yesterday's The Irish will travel to Ball State victories, then we lost two more workout. tomorrow. The Cardinals (6-3) lost Sunday at Wisconsin. You have to Slager looked anyting but out of to the Irish last season 9-Q. After a 
shape as he took Michigan's Eric
wonder if we're ever going to get day off, the Irish continue their another chance." Fnedler to the maximum three busy week with a match at DePaul sets. of tie-breakers,
The weather also interferes with two them on Thursday. 
before losing 3-6, 7-6, 6-7. His
practice conditions for l'Oach Jake Kline's squad. There have been 
teammates did not have any better 
Collegiate Notes
luck. losing to the nations' fifth were suitable for outside batting 
only four days of sunshine that 
r~mked team 9-Q. 

Understand all subjecls, plays .1nd novels fasler!
practice. and yesterday's con­The Irish. now 2-5, gave the 
TI>OU,,1nds of topics available
ditions limited action to pitchers Wolverines plenty of difficulty, and 
"'ilhin ~8 hours of mailing 
(,•mpt.-tc with bibliography and
and catchers throwing iu one of the with a little luck. the score might 
rootnotcs Low.-st Prices are 

Convo's auxiliary gyms. ha"e been not so dishl•artening The 
Irish lost three more-tie-breakers
The next chance for a home 
GUARANTEED 

openl'r will come Sunday afternoon in addition to Slager's two, and the 
SEND Sl 90 tor our latest when Xa vier t 0. l will hopt'fully netters also dropped four 7-5 sets. 
,h•-.criptivl' M,1il Order Catalogue . ,.. '"' p.,,,,,Ql' p,,id Order Forms
play a doubleheader with ftw Irish In addition to frosh Freidler, 
'\lO

at Cartil'r. ND will tune up for that 1\lichigan got single wins from 
COLLEGIATE RESEARCH one with another twinbill Saturday their first-vl'ar number-one and 
l N. lllh 51. Rldg. Rm 706 afternoon at Bloomington, Ill. two players. Victor Amaya and 
Phola. Pa. 19107 against Illinois State. Fred Dl•Jesusu. Amay a handed 
HOT LINE (2151 S6l·l7SI 
Interested In worlclng In the Student Union and serving your fellow students? 

The newly-expanded Services Commission needs you. 
Come to the Student Union Offices for an interview April 5, 9 & 1 0 2-4 pm 
L--------------------~--~~~~~~~~~~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 




