On The Inside 
HPC calendar survey ... page 3 OC shuttle ends ... page 5 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VIII, No. 53 
Provost defends '74-'75 calendar at SLC meeting 
by Jeanne Murphy Staff Reporter 
"I feel the calendar will justify itself next year. It should be reviewed after spending one autumn semester to see what it is like," contended Father James Burtchaell as he addressed a full audience at the SLC meeting last night in the CCE auditorium. 
The newly proposed calendar for the 74-75 school year was the topic of the meeting. Approximately 250 members of the Academic Council, administrators, faculty and students attended the meeting to hear Burtchaell speak about the complexities of the calendar, its history, and its objections. 
Burtchaell stressed that the calendar is a cohesive decision already made. It was passed and abandoned by the Academic Council and passed again after reconsideration. "I am not prepared to say it can't be undone," he ·said, but he believes it would be better to review it after trying for one semester. 
The proposed calendar passed by the Council on December 14, 1972, starts classes before Labor Day with a ten-day break in mid-October and terminates the fall semester by December 20. The calendar was passed by the Council by a 20..19 vote, with twenty eight members absent. 
return to 72 days 
The Provost enumberated several complexities which surround the new calendar. He realizes that because of these complexities or variables, everyone will be displeased with some feature of the calendar. With this in mind, he cited the "Crosson Rule" coined by Dean Crosson which states that "no calendar will be pleasing to everybody." 
The Hall Presidents Council in turn has offered a 
substitution for the "Crosson Rule" by stating that "all 
calendars should be pleasing to at least somebody." 
The first problem in making a calendar is the that 
the first semester must end before Christmas, he said. 
In 1968 the Academic Council changed the previous 
rule in which the fall semester ended in mid-January. 
The trouble with cramming in a full semester's work 
before Christmas, he claimed, is the lack of an ap­
propriate break or rest time. 

He explained that the student body population at 
Notre Dame is a "national" one. Only fifteen percent 
of the student live in Indiana, and thus, the remaining 
eighty-five per cent must make use of pulbic tran­
sportation or automobiles. This is one reason why the 
exam period was reduced from 'l to five days, so that 
students have ample time to get home for Christmas. 
Up until 1968 there was a five and a half day class 
week, Burtchaell continued. Since then, classes have 
not been scheduled for Saturday. Thus, in making a 
calendar, it is necessary to keep a five day class week, 
creates the second problem. 

The third complexity effecting the calendar is 
retaining parity with other accredited institutions. 
Burthcaell claimed that there should be a "unified 
class experience" among institutions. Thus, 
"anything under the average seventy-two class days 
per semester is under par," he explained. 
He called attention to the fact that the 74-75 calendar 
has only seventy one days in the fall semester and 
baled this to negligence. "We're not satisfied with that 
and we're working our way back," he said. "Our goal 
is to return to a seventy two class day.'' 
no Thanksgiving break 
Student reactions t,o Burtchaell's talk were by no 
means favorable. John Mazza, student member on the 
Academic Council, claimed that losing two academic 
days is no excuse. He believed that ND accreditation 
would not be effected by having a seventy-day class 
semester. 

Mazza also stated that following the "trend" of other 
institutions in starting before Labor Day, as Burtchaell 
mentioned, ND isinconsistentin still maintaining their 
policies of "in loco parentis" and other traditional 
ideals. 

Burtchaell also cited a need to have a common 
calendar with St. Mary's College if the co-ex program 
iscontinuedand expanded. "The program would break 
Friday, November 30, 19~-~ 


GPA marks CPA course students 
Account dept list sets priorities
~ 
Butch Ward and Tom Drape 
A mimeographed list of names and grade-point averages of Notre Dame's senior accounting majors was released to those seniors Wednesday for determining which seniors would be eligible for a CPA coaching course. 
The list, which included the grades of two-thirds of the department's seniors, was distributed to the group during pre-registration by Dr. Ray Powell, Accounting Department chairman, according to one accounting major. 
That senior, who wished to remain unnamed, credited Powell with describing the list as con­fidential material, and as stating that no alternative method could be found for determining which of the department's 167 seniors would be eligible for the 105 available positions in the course's three sections. 
The CPA course is offered as preparation for those students intent upon taking the Certified Public Accountant examination, to be offered in May, 1974. Those who pass all five parts of the exam are then certified as CPA's. 
Sources in the Accounting school cited a shortage of available teachers as the reason behind the depart­ment's inability to provide all senior accounting majors with the opportunity to take the course. But there existed dissension concerning Powell's decision to make the list of grades public to accounting majors. 
Dissension over publication of the list arose from reports that the G.P.A.'s were released without the consent of those seniors included on the list. 
According to tworectorscontacted Thursday night, the registrar has ceased to release outright semester reports to hall rectors because of the rising call for confidentiality with regards to G.P.A.'s. 
One member of the law school also commented that pressure from prospective employers was ignored during a confrontation regarding the law school's release of grades to those employers two years ago. That student stated that student opinion prevented 'he release of any grades. 

down if we can't bring the calendar into harmony," he said. "We must secure the acquiesence of St. Mary's College." 
The last problem in formulating a calendar ac­cording to Burtchaell, is what is an appropriate break? When should a break be scheduled? And how long should the break last? 
In answering these questions Burtchaell talked about the stringent class cutting system in the past versus the lenient cut system today. Because professors are not as strict on attendance today, students "erode" breaks before holidays. 
Personally, Burtchaell is in favor of a long October break with only one day off for Thanksgiving Day it­self. He feels that a break should not be a "guilt period" for students to catch up on work but rather a rest time away from the books. 
The breaks should be long enough so that students can travel to the East coast without spending a large · portion of the time in their cars. 
Mazza and other members of the SLC impressed the fact that seventy-four percent of the student would prefer a long Thanksgiving vactiaon instead of an Octobe break. Students would rather spend Thanksgiving with family .and friends instead of a week in October when there would be nothing to do. 
One faculty member expressed a desire for a week off atrhanksgivingand sympathized with the students. He finds that ttle rhythym of his courses are in­terrupted because of the two break periods. It is almost "anti-intellecutal" having to plan a semester around two break periods.. He also compared the cutting of classes before each break and concluded that there was more of an erosion of the October break than at Thanksgiing. 
After he finished his comments, he was applauded by the students in the audience and the SLC. Burtchaell recounted the history of the new calendar beginning in 1968 when major revisions were made in 
(continued on page 4) 

1 ··· · 

. 
. 
Dr. Powell: refuses comment on GPA priority list that determines candidacy for CPA coaching course. 
Presently the University registrar refuses to release any grades without the consent of the student. 
Transcripts are issued to employers and graudate schools only upon thestudent'sjirective and endorsed application. 
When contacted Thursday night about the grade release, Powell responded to News Editor Tom Drape's request for comments by hanging up the phone. Fath~r Ja~1es Burtchaell, University Provost, had no Immediate comment on the incident. 
Vincent Raymond, Assistant Dean of Business Admi.nistration s~id .that he had "every confidence that It (the publication of the list) was not an ar­bitrary decision and there was a well-thought out rationale for it." 
Disse~sion also continued over the inability of the accountmg department to provide all seniors with the coaching course. Raymond, in commenting on the issue of whether the people near the bottom of the accounting grade list needed the course more than those with high grades, said "I just don't know'' 

Fr. Burtchaell, left, explains the reasoning behind the 1974-75 school calendar before the 
SLC,  below.  (Staff  
photos  by  Mike  
Budd}  

I I I 
1 
J 
j 

~~-­

the observer Friday, November 30, 1973 
On 1974 calendar 


Student reactions vary 
by Mike Dewey Staff Reporter 
-Emotions ran high at yester­day's Student Life Council meeting concerning the controversial new calendar adopted by the Univer­sity. As the meeting was ad­jow·ned, several students offered 
reactions  to  what  they  had  just  
witnessed.  
Mark Farrell.  a  freshman,  did  

not like the new calendar. "I see no reason why the break can't be taken at Thanksgiving. If there was such a mandate of 2300 people in 1971, why did they even bother to adopt a new calendar?" h·~ asked. 
"I can't see staying at a place wn1ch doesn't respect nine-tenths of the students opinion," sophomore Kevin Price said. 
"I'd like to see how much progress the University makes before Labor Day if 89 per cent of the students decide not to come," Vincent Ravaschierre, a sophomore commented. 
John Salveson, a freshman, suggested that "varsity football 
warld 
briefs 
SAIGON--The South Vietnamese comand reported 109 Com­munist troops killed Thursday in fighting in an area west of the capital. Intensified fighting has intensified recently as the harvest continues in the south. South Vietnam military in­telligence attributes renewed action to the fact that the North Vietnamese are troops are in desperate need of food. 
OKLAHOMA CITY--Senator George McMgovern, CD-S.D.) said Thursday confirmation of Gerald Ford as vice president could remove one of the obstacles he said has slowed the im­peachment of President Nixon. McGovern continued to promote impeachment investigations on the basis of Watergate and related incidents. Final House confirmation of the Ford nomination is expected to come next week. 
NEW DELHI--Soviet Union today promised to aid poverty stricken Indai over the next 15 years in a cooperation agreement signed Thursday. The pact came at the conclusion of Premier Brezhnev's five-day visit to the asian country. 
an campus taday 
friday, november 30 10 a.m.-4 p.m., red cross blood drive, stepan center 5 p.m., mass and dinner, bulla shed 6, 8, 10, 12 p.m., film, frenzy, knights of columbus, $1 7 p.m., swimming, nd invitational relays, rockne memorial 7 p.m., dinner, madrigal dinner by smc music and art depts, regina north 7:30p.m., hockey, nd vs. denver, ace B& 10 p.m., film, the trojan women, engineering aud., $1 9 p.m., zodial ball, soul sounds, cool people, the fabulous incos, stepan center, $1.50 for students 9 p.m., SO's dance, slippery rock and roll, smc dining hall, $1.50 
9:30 p.m., smc coffeehouse, lower level cafe, free 
saturday, december 1 2 p.m., basketball debut, the 1973 fighting irish vs. valparaiso, ace 2 p.m., swimming, nd vs. univ. of waterloo, rockne memorial. free 3 p.m., art openings, jan digirilamo, hammes gallery 4:30p.m., hockey, nd jv's vs. florissant valley cc (st. louis), ace B& 10 p.m. film, fritz lang's "m", engineering aud., $1 
sunday, december 2 
1:30 & 7:30 p.m., films, the adventures of robin hood & the lone ranger, carroll hall, $.75 
2:30 p.m., hockey, nd vs. denver, ace 3 p.m., art openings, kathleen bodnar, fran Ierner, indiana unvi 
graduate potters, moreau gallery 4:30p.m., vespers, university choir, sacred heart church 
6:30 p.m., byzantine liturgy, holy cross chapel 8 & 10 p.m., film, fritz lang's "m", engineering aud. 



Correction : History 404 
History 404, American Military History, taught by Professors Robert Kerby and Alexander Cochran, is listed incorrectly in the Spring Semester Course Booklet. The course will meet at llMWF. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the stuaents ot the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S8 per semester ($14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
465.56. 
should be replaced by a new sport-­shooting dead horses." 
"I don't see why the University can't have the Thanksgiving bnak like everybody else wants it to be," freshman Mike Welsh said. 
Gary McDonald, a sophomore, commented, "I just question whether there's any form of democracy whatsoever." 
Junior Bob McCreevy suggested that student pressure might be misdirected. "The only thing we can do now, as I see it, is to put pressure on the Academic Council to revise the calendar. The pressure should not have placed on Father Burtchaell. I think he took an undue amount of abuse tonight from some of the students," he said. 
Fred Graver, a sophomore, called the calendar "irrational." "I think Fr. Burtchaell showed a lot of reason and rationality in a lot of the things he said. But the biggest irrationality of all is the fact that he insists on inflicting tt.is calendar upon us. This is after we have shown what we think about it. 
I think even members of the Academic Council, which he reli•es upon so heavily, have shown what theythink of it," he said. 
"There's another meeting of the Academic Council coming up-­maybe it's time for a re-vote. Fr. Burtchaell 's insistence that this calendar is permanent is non­sense," Graver suggested. 
Law school star1~s summer prograr.o. 
A summer law program at Sophia University in Tokyo, Japan, has been added to the academic year of the Law School at the University of Notre Dame where present programs include year­around classes on the campus and at Brunei University of London. 
Dr. Edward J. Murphy, professor of law, and Dr. David T. Link, associate dean of the Law School, will join the Sophia law faculty for the classes opening July 7 and closing August 10. Classes will be conducted in English and are open to practicing lawyers as well as law students. 
Students at the Sophia campus may elect to complete up to six credit hours in such courses as Japanese Legal Systems and Traditions, Comparative Com­mercial Law; Contracts and Sales, International Business Tran­sactions: Tax Aspects, Law and Technology, the Legal Aspects of Doing Business in Japan, Japanese Company Law, and Restitution. 
A tuition fee of $375 has been established for the course and living quarters will be available on the Sophia campus. Additional information on the program and group travel prices may be ob­tained by contacting Dr. Murphy at the Notre Dame Law School. 
FOR GREAT BUYS TRY 

*MAC'S RECORD RACK* 
2925 Mishawaka Ave. 
next to River Park Theater 
* lp's *needles *special *record 
orders cleaning equipment
*tapes 
If we don't have it, we'll get it 
Just Arrived! New Who, Three Dog Night 
ENJOY FRIDAY AND SATURDAY NIGHT A 



LOUIE'S BAR 
744 N. Notre Dome Great Food ----Great Drink 
celebrate after the game till?? Go Irish -Beat Valpo 
entertainment value 
See a movie at our low every-day prices and 
after the show tractions ...  visit  one  of  our  special  at­ 
... the Feedbag for a snack or sandwich, or ...the Icehouse for a full meal with cocktails  or  

... one of the 25 special shops located in' the 100 center Complex. 
/

Colorado Club Christmas Flight 
-to Denver via TWA -leave O'Hare Dec. 20, 5:45 pm -only $116 round trip 
Sign-ups at Travel Bureau Mon. Dec. 23 Between the Hours of 1 and 3 pm ONLY! 
For more information call: DANIEL V. SHEEHAN 
232-0550 
SOCIAL COMMISSION PROUDLY PRESENTS 
THE "FINALS" FLING 
A TRADITIONAL EVENING OF PANDEMONIUM 
-2 BANDS-BREW-MUNCHIES 
•
1.e. AN ARMORY PARTY* 
JOIN US BEFORE CRAMMING FOR FINALS AT 
THE CITADEL OF DISSIPATION. 
FREE! BUS SERVICE TO AND FROM ARMORY! 
FRIDAY DECEMBER 8, 1973 8:30 -12:30 
LIMITED TICKETS ON SALE EVENINGS IN DINING HALLS AND NOW AT LA FORTUNE TICKET WINDOW. 
2.50 PER PERSON 
+EVERYTHING YOU HEARD ABOUT IT IS PROBABLY TRUE.
1-....:......:...:.=..:::..:..:.::~:______:_~~------------' 

,"" ' , ·~ .•-. f. ~ -".. • f ~ 

Friday, November 30. 1973 the observer 3 HIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
Please answer honestly and comments are encouraged. HPC The proposed calendar for the 1974 Fall Semester begins CALENDAR August 28. It includes a semester break of approx. one 
SURVEY 

week in October (which may encompass one or two home football games) 
Calendar survey shows 
PercentagesClass division: Seniors, 13percent; Juniors, 26per cent;

Sophomores, 28 per cent; Freshmen, 33 per cent.


overwhelmingdl•sapprovaJ'· 
2. 
Do you favro this proposed calendar? 


Yes: 11 No: 89 

3. 
Would this calendar affect your opportunities for summer

by Jim Eder president of Dillon; Bob Howl, that because of the pre-Labor Day 
employment? Yes: 59 No: 41
Staff Reporter president of Lyons; John Mazza, a start, "finances would become a student member of the Academic major problem" for many 4. Would this calendar appreciably decrease your summer earnings? Approsimate\y how much?
The final results of the survey Council; Art McDonnell, president students." He pointed out that Yes: 69 No: 31 conducted by the Hall Presidents of St. Edward's; Ed Chute, students working in resort areas . 
5. If you planned to attend summer school, would this Council regarding the new president of Sorin; and Lynn would have trouble contracting calendar interfere with your scheduling? Yes: 34 No: 66 
calendar for the 1974 Fall Semester Larkin, president of Walsh. their jobs, because most 
6. If you intended to live off-campus, might this affect your
demonstrate overwhelming The questionnaires were recreational facilities do not close 
housing arrangements (rent, sub-letting)? 
Yes: 52 No: 48

student disapproval. Of the distributed by each of the until after the Labor Day weekend. students returning the survey 89 presidents to the members of their 7. Did you rema in here for the October (1973) break? Yes: 44 No: 56 percent gave a negative response halls. Over 3000 students McLaughlin also noted that the 
8. a. Would you leave campus during the proposed (1 week)
to the question "Do you favor this responded to the survey. Of those incoming freshm•en and the 400 
October (1974) break? Yes: 70 No: 30proposed calendar?" 13 per cent were seniors, 26 percent students working on orientation, b. If.it meant missing a football game? 
Yes: 35 No: 65

The new calendar calls for were juniors, 28 per cent were having to return nearly two weeks c. If the dorms and dining halls were closed buy you could still remain (similar to spring break)?
classes to begin on August 28, a sophomores, and 33 per cent were prior to Labor Day, would ex­Yes: 58 No: 42 midsemester break extending freshmen. perience a disadavantage in 
9. Would you prefer a full wekk vacation at Thanksgiving to from October 25 through Responding to the survey's seeking summer employment. the proposed October break? Yes: 74 No: 26 
November 3, and a four-day figures regarding the loss of Finally, he argued that many 
Thanksgiving holiday. summer earnings, Fr. James T. land lords would expect a full 10. Would you be in favor of an alternative calendar starting after Labor Day, eliminating the October break and ex­
Similar discontent was ex­Burtchaell, chief proponent of the August rent from off-campus 
tending the Tha~ving vacation to a full week? 
Yes: 74 No: 26

pressed against specific aspects of new calendar, explained to the students returning prior to Sep­the new calendar. Sixty-nine Student Life Council yesterday tember. percent of the students said that that a pre-Labor Day start was Professor Thomas Werge, 1 UJ~r Gtnlnnial the pre-Labor Day start of the fall necessary to provide the required director of the Committee on i semester would "appreciably number of class days to ensure the Academic Progress, yesterday , .. 
decrease" their summer ear­university's accreditation, while expressed his support of the 
Jfancakr ifnusr 
nings. The average loss an­still maintaining an appropriate alternative calendar proposed by ticipated amounts to between $150 break or holiday. the survey: starting after Labor and $200, according to HPC Burtchaell claimed that he had Day, eliminating the Ocotober Chairman Pat McLaughlin. "seriously considered" the break, and t~xtending the 
"Enjoy a snack or dinner" 
Seventy-four percent preferred a financial burden that a shortened Thanksgiving vacation. full week vacation at Thanksgiving summer would place upon Werge noted that two breaks 
35 Varieties of Pancakes 
to the October break proposed by students. He concluded, however, during a semester tended to 
Chicken -Steak -Sandwiches
the new calendar. Moreover, 74 that "many students discontinue disrupt the progress of courses, for 
per cent favored an alternative work far in advance of Labor students often have a difficult time calendar beginning after Labor Dau." He also noted that "early getting back into the subject Day, eliminating. the Ocotber calendar is the most common one matter after a break. He agreed break and extending the used among the major universities with Burtchaell that a holiday was · U.S. 31 (Dixieway) North Your Host Thanksgiving vacation to a full today. Twice as many schools use necessary, but contended that it l(Across from Holiday Inn) Bob Edwards '50 week. it as compared to the second most would be less di~>ruptive later in 
The survey, conducted by the popular calendar: the quarter the semester. HPC, consisted of ten questions system." For this reason, together with drawn up by a special committee HPC Chairman Pat McLaughlin the economic advantages of a 
School house Too consisting of HPC Executive contested Burtchaell's stand at the single break and the strong student Coordinator Wally Gasior, SLC meeting. McLaughlin argued preference of the Thanksgiving In the Brewery 
holiday, Werge favored discarding 100 Center Complexthe midsemester vacation in favor 
Mishawaka, Ind. 

of a longer November break. 
Phone -259-8181

Burtchaell was not moved from his stand supporting the new calendar by the 8!1 per cent student The midwest's most completedisapproval figure held by the HPC survey. He claimed that a canvass needlepoint shop conducted by the Academic 
Council showed substantial ap­SPECIAL: 10 percent discount upon presentation probal by the students questioned. of student I D HPC Charman McLaughlin 
HOURS: MONDAY-SATURDAY, 10am-9pm
(continued on page 9) 
SUNDAY, 12 m-6 m 

What are the words to the Chicago Bear's Fight Song'? 
With the help of the Chicago Bears Football Club, we managed to secure the music as well as the words to the immortal tune entitled Bear Down, Chicago Bears. A limited mumber of copies are available on request at the Observer office. By the way, Jerry Downs wrote both the words and music and all rights are reserved under a 1941 copyright by the Chicago Bears football Club, Inc. 
Bear Down, Chicago Bears Make ev'ry play clear the way to victory Bear Down Chicago Bears Put up a fight with a might so fearlessly We'll never forget the way you thrilled the nation With your "T" formation Bear Down, Chicago Bears And let 'em know why you're wearing the crown You're the pride and joy of Illinois, Chicago Bears Bear Down, Bear Down, Chicago Bears 
Who ht~ads up the Collegiate Jazz Festival planning? 
Ken Lee is in charge of getting everything setup and making sure all runs smooth. He lives in 353 Sorin and can be reached by phone at 8588 or 3797 which is the CAC Office. 
Who is running the hockey cheering section? 
We are not sure of what you mean, but hope this is what you are looking for in the way of an answer. The name of the group is the Hockey Fanatics and its leaders are Charles AUberry and Harry Bigham who can be reac"ted at 6891. 
What is the name of the person in charge of the BP Moose Hunters? 
The individual is Dan Duncheon who lives in 130 Keenana and his phone number is 3244. The group is prinarily a drinking society which is presently co-operating with The Ombudsman Service in getting together manpower for a proposed lost and found pickup system which is under consideration by the Dean of Students. 




l'\.4'-.•.UJ '··' '·-' 
'·' 0 ................... 
~-······· 
.. .., '\"' /, ... , .. ,"
"·".1''.1 't 
;-. .... " . ·' ·.), -~~~ il,fjj ':'•• 


the observer Friday, November 30, 1973
4 
Provost defends calendar 
(continued from page l) 
Another objection to the calendar was the irregualr the calendar. At this time, Saturday classes were time for the breaks. But Burtchaell claimed that many eliminated and the semester was terminated early. eductional institutions today, especially secondary and 
In 1971, the administration proposed a calendar elementatry school, were switching to an early which began before Labor Day and ended a week schedule. before Christmas. A hot debate ensued and the A third objection was the desire for a long proposed calendar was not passed. The Academic Thanksgiving break with no October break at all. Council secured a referendum in which 2300 students The Hall Presidents Council met with Burtchaell on signed, opposing the calendar. But Burtchaell Tuesday, November 20, and discussed several ob­disregarded this position because "the signatures were jections and grievances at the meeting. Pat obtained before spring break and was not conclusive of McLaughlin, Chariman of the HPC read a report of what was best." the criticisms and objections of the proposed calendar 
Burtchaell cited the importance of summerincome which were brought up at the meeting. Besides the for ND from conventions and meetings. This income objections already listed, the HPC opposed the provides employment for some ND employees for disproportionate number of students on the Academic twelve months of the year, and keeps tuition from Council. The Co ·neil was eomposed of fifty ad­rising. The Mobile Home Show had always delayed ministrators and faculty members and or!ly seven 
C 
0-:-b_s_e-rv_e_r_N_i_g-,-h_t_E_d-:-i-to_r_s__-----;the beginning of the semester until after Labor Day. undergraduates. . 
The Mobile Home show was "lucrative" according to It also objected to the lack of disinterest on the part Burtchaell, but ND was bound by contracts and could of certain members of the Council who did not vote and Assistant Night Editors not move the show without moving the Kiwanis Club, calendar proposal. too. Last year, the contracts were changed and these It expressed apprecciation to the Academic Council eeting Sunday night, Dec.2-9 p.m. events took place in the beginning of summer instead for giving students an October break, but .3sked the of the last week in August. group to fulfill the following wishes also: pay the 
r-Start your v..eekend at 

Another facet in the history of the new calendar was expense of a round trip airplane ticket to New York or 
the long awaited approval by St. Mary's College, said Los Angeles; give something for the students to do 
Burtchaell. while they are on break; retard the speed at which the 
Burtchaell told the audience that the administration fall semester progresses; schedule the home football and Academic Counicl seriously considered the ob­game at the beginning of next year's break for Thur­jections to the calendar. One of the students major sday night so that students can see the game and enjoy objections was loss of salary from summer jobs. the break; and consider the fact that students will Burtchaell responded by staging that many students leave as early as they can no matter how many days have been returning back to school much earlier than the break encompasses.Another issue discussed was the due date, and nevertheless, quit work a week the indifference to student opinion and disapproval of 
before Labor Day. the calendar. 
Students may still donate blood to drive 
by Howard Wood donors. Volunteer workers fromStarr Reporter 
Notre Dame and St. Maris sup­plied car-pools to take some donors Students may donate blood to the to the Medical Foundation locatedRed Cross today at Stepan Center on Navarre Street.
from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Yesterday, Meade, a senior from Rochester,245 donors gave pints of blood for New York, began the Red Crosshospital use. 
drive at Notre Dame in April, 1972.
"All blood donors receive free Since then, there have been drives blood for one year for themselves every November and April. Thisand their immediate family," year, Jack McKeon, senior fromstated co-chairman Pete Meade. 
Boston, Mass., has joined MeadeThe Red Cross points out that a as co-chairman.
pint is all that is taken. The human "This is a worthy cause and sobody manufactures new blood far it has been very successful,"constantly, so the pint donated is commented Meade. "The Redreplaced within a few hours. After Cross always needs blood of anydonating, most people can resume type. Blood for transfusions istheir usual activities. 
good from 21 to 28 days, so there isBlood is donated to the Fort a need for a constant trickle ofWayne Red Cross. This group donors."
works with the South Bend Medical Certain health laws will preventFoundation supplying the local some people from donating blood. 
areas with the needed blood. 
For safety reasons, the Red CrossFifty pints of blood are donated cannot accept blood from peopleto the University Fund, which who have colds, have been out ofsupplies the whole Notre Dame the country within the past six · community. This pool is for the months, or have had malaria or use of all students, faculty, ad­hepatitis.
ministrators and their families. 
Donating blood takes 10 minutesDonated blood is very helpful in and the entire visit, about an hour.
emergencies. The red blood cells Donors must be at least 18 yearsare often administered during 
old. 
surgery. Serum albumin is given to accident victims. Gamma globulin helps combat infectious diseases. Platelets are given to patients who have bleeding problems. 

259-2023 100 Center
Because of the large turnout, 
Mishawaka, Ind. 
extra facilities were needed for the 
Many beautiful & unusual gift items 


MOVIES! 
Action Packed Double Feature! 
"Adventures of Robin Hood" 
starring Errol Flynn 
'& 

"The Lone Ranger"
r Sun., Dec. 2nd 1:30 & 7:30 Carroll Hall (Made/eva) Admission 75¢ 
PASTEL PORTRAITS 
a unique gift from color photos s~s 
PICTURE FRAMiiNG 
. ·reasonably priced 
ERICA'S 
on the balcony of Thieves Market 2309 E. Edison Sat. and Sun. H1-6 

Bulla Shed 
( Corner of Bulla and Juniper across from Grace Tower) 

Bud Drinkers, can you figure this out? 
Ralph bought a 6-pak of Budweiser,., and invited four friends over to share it. Since he bought, he expected to have two cans to himself, but unfortunately when he returned to the refrigerator for his second, he found it missing. So he asked who took it. AI said, "Joe drank it." Joe said, "Dan drank it." Dan said, "Joe, that's a lie!" And Bill said, "I didn't drink it." If only one of these statements is true, who really drank it? 

·_3u!n.3.IB awq SSa[ puB .3U!:lJ:U!JP awq a.xout 1uads aAm[ pJnOJ i\atp 'S:lJ:Bd-g aAy 'F{2noq pBI.{ qd[B}.I JI :(BJOW ·an.x1 aq pJnOM. wawa1B1S s,UBQ i\7uo uat.n aJu!s '.xaqJ1Bus "'Pna aq1 S! ll!H A[SDO!AqQ ·an.q a.xB s1uawa1B1s s,ll!H puu s,aor uaq1 '1! P!P UBQ :lJ:U!l.{1 no.c\ J! puv ·an.x1 a.xB s:Juawa1B1S s,UBQ puB s,rv uaq1 'aor s,1! :lJ:U!l.{1 no.c\ JI ·an.x1 aJB s1uama1B1s s,[[!H puB s UB 'auo A1 m.3 aq1 S! IV awnssB no.c\ JI :n3MSNV 
Friday, November 30, 1973 the observer 
To centralize photocoping 
Dept. of Printing, Publications formed 
by Claude Devaney Staff Reporter 
A Department of Printing and Publications is in the process of being set up at NotreDame. The department, headed by Ronald Parent, will centralize the control of printing and photocoping done on campus. 
The department will offer printing and publications assistance to all departments of the University. 
Parent, director of publications since 1970, said, "The department will not play a disruptive kind of t·ole in what other people are doing." 
Specifications, placement, cost, and graphics of all University publications, except student publications and University Press books, will be controlled by the new department. Parent stressed the fact that flexible procedures would be set up. He said his department would not interfere in any way With the editorial in­tegrity of other departments. 
According to Parent, the publications department would be the logical place to make production decisions, because its staff has the experience and knowledge for this type of work. 
The objectives of the department are to maintain a uniform level of high quality in all publications effi_ciently and at a low cost. 
The department, which is now under the Office of Public Relations and Development wiU expand its staff to include a full­time designer and an assistant designer effective January 1. Design was previously done on a free-lance basis. 
Photocopying and duplicating will also be under the new department in order to insure proper, efficient and economical operation of these services. 
A consulting firm study found 
that the University spent $222,000 
last year on photocopying. 
Although high, this figure is noi out of hand according to Parent. ·He said it was fairly reasonable. Parent plans to meet with all those concerned in this matter before making any final decisions on the photocopy matter. He plans to find alternatives in terms of cost and efficiency. These alternatives would come from a review of the cost and present technology of these machines. The department would inform deans and department ~eads of the technology and op­twns. The final decisions would lie with the various deans. The consulting firm also studied the relationship between Notre Dame and the Ave Maria Press. Parent stated that they found the University was getting high quality printing at much cheaper prices than outside the University. Printing on this campus is very well handled by Ave. It is a very good_ product for the dollar, ac­cordmg to Parent. 
Lack of commuters terininates off-campus shuttle bus service 
by Tom Kreney 
Staff Reporter 
The off-campus shuttle bus will end service today, Student Body Vice President Mike Geisinger announced yesterday. Geisinger cited the cost of the shuttle as the reason for cancellation. 
"To make it economically feasible or at least worth our while, we needed about 400 riders a day," said Geisinger. He explained that approximately 70 students rode the shuttle each day. 
The shuttle bus, which began its run November 7, was an attempt by student government to service outlying campus areas of high student population. 
"We were trying to provide some service to off campus students," said Geisinger, explaining the original rationale for the ex­periment. "They pay the same student government fee." 
Geisinger pointed out that those 
students who rode the bus 
regularly were very enthusiastic. 
Some students had suggested 
changes in the bus route and 
schedule. But Geisinger 
concluded, "People have found 
other ways of getting to campus." 
Geisinger does nor foresee 
shuttle sevice being resumed next 
semester. He discounts the 
possibility of the administration 
providing funds for continuing the 
bus. 
"Since· we weren't able to make 
it a success I don't think the ad­
ministration will give any money," 
he noted. 
Vesco remains 
NASSAU, Bahamas CUP!) 
.UIIIllII IllIIllllllllllllllllII JJIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIJillII JillII Ill1111 IIIIJII IIIJI IIIJIJIIIJIIJIIJIJIIIIJII11111111' 

A Bahamian magistrate appar­
ently has decided to refuse to See editors or dept. 
extradite fugitive financier heads for tickets and 
Robert L. Vesco to the United States to face embezzlement more information. 
charges, an attorney said want everyone there. 
Thursd~aiY:....·---------~========~~ 
SUNDAY MASSES MAIN CHURCH 
5:15 pm Sat. 9:30am Sun. 10:45 am Sun. 12:15 pm Sun. 6:30 pm Sun. 
It is with deep regret that Student Government must announce the can. cellation of the Off campus Bus Shuttle. The bus shuttle was initiated on an experimental basis as a service for the Off Campus student; unfortunately, there does not appear to be enough interest in the service to make it economically feasible. We had con­sidered •several revisions in the route and the time schedule in the hope of increasing ridership. Perhaps, if the 
, ·initial response to the bus service had IJeen more substantial, we might have instituted fseveral. of these changes, but it appears as though no amount of revision will increase ridership enough to make the project a suc·cess. 
Dec. 7 8:00 pm Holy Cross Halfway House 
Fr. Thomas McNally, C.S.C. Fr. Thomas McNally, C.S.C. Fr. Aidan Kavanagh, O.S.B. Fr. James Lackenmier, C.S.C. Byzantine Rite, Holy Cross Hall 
Although we must discontinue this particular service to the Off Campus students, we have every intention of continuing our efforts to provide new and expanded serrvices. We are, 110wever, at a loss for ideas on how to accomplish this and, therefore, welcome any ideas that you may have. 
Please feel free to stop by the Student Government Office at any time to discuss any of these ideas. We took a risk with the shuttle bus and we were not successful, but we are willing to take new risks and we need your input. 
Thank you for your interest in Student Government. 
Student Government 
Parent feels the department will produce high quality materials. He bases this opinion on the past performance of the present publications Office from which the new department was formed. Its reputation comes_from doing good publications, such as The Notre Dame Magazine, Parent said. The magazine, has become one of the top ten college magazines in the country in less than two years time, an achievement which Parent finds incredible. 

FRIDAY IS ABSOLUTELY THE LAST DAY FOR PAYMENTS FOR THE 
CALIFORNIA CLUB XMAS CHARTER 
ROUND TRIP FROM SOUTH BEND TO LOS ANGELES $208.50 AT THE BADIN 
TRAVEL AGENCY 
SEATS STILL AVAILABLE. 
NOT JUST GOOD•••GREAT! 
There are many good shoe-boot combinations you can buy ... but here is truly great footwear from Woverine. Designed for just the very weather Michiana offers· fleece lined and weather resistant. In brown. ' 
$25.95 

Other styles from $25 to $28.95 

.. ·-. ) ; ~ ' . 
' 
~ 
. . .. . . .... ... .. .. . .. . . .. . . .. ... 


---------------------------------· 
THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Jerry Lutkus Art Ferranti 
Editor-in-Chief Dan Barrett Executive Editor Executive Editor 
NEWS: 283-1715 
Lee Gentine EDITORIALS: 283-8661 John Kloos Bllsiness Manager 
BUSINESS: ?lll-7471 Advertising Manaqer 
Friday, November 30, 1973 
And What Now? 
The meeting between Fr. Burtchaell, the council into meeting this is necessary the SLC and student yesterday proved because Fr. Burtchaell conveniently that the students of ND have a gripe and a cancelled the November and December 
significant one. And further it showed meetings of the council because of. t~e that the administration of this school is lack of an agenda. Once the council ts content to turn deaf ears on the com­convened they can reconsider the plaints of its sttfdents. calendar if petitioned to do so. 
There are tv. o possible a venues of Here is what students can actively do to action open right now and both should be attempt to change the ca.lendar. T~e explored. Executive Committee of the Academtc First, when the SLC meets Monday, Council consists of these ten people: they should follow the lead of Professor 
Fr. James BurtchaellThomas Werge and pass a resolution Fr. Ferdinand Brownurging the Academic Council to recon­Fr. David Burrellsider the calendar. Though the SLC has Dr. Robert Gordon no power over the council, it would help Dr. James Masseythe cause tremendously if they were to Dr. 0. Timothy O'Mearaadd their vote to the growing list of people Dr. Edward Vastaand organizations calling for recon­Dean Joseph Hogansideration. Further, the SLC can really Christopher Nedeausolidify their stance on this campus as a Dr. Robert Williamsonsympathetic and representative body 
with such a resolution. They decide the agenda of the academic council and they voted 9-1 
The other avenue of approach is up to (Nedeau dissenting) not to reconsider the the students. When you come right down .calendar this year and authorized a one to the facts, only the Academic Council year trial period for it. Call them and ask really matters in changing the calendar them why. for it is their votes that have to do it. Ten The rest of the Academic Council signatures are needed on a petition to call members are: 
·:::::::::::::·:::;;;::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;::;;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::•::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:~~~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~:::~:~:~:::::::::!::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::~:::~:::::::::::: 
Ex Officio Members Dr. Paul Bartholomew Dr. Thomas Fehlner Fr. Theodore Hesburgh Dr. George Brinkley Dr. Gerald Jones Fr. Edmund Joyce Dr. Dennis Dugan Dr. Charles Mullin Dr. Phillip Faccenda Thomas Fern Fr. Michael MurphyDr. James Frick Dr. Mathew Fitzsimons Dr. Kenyon Tweed ell 
Fr. Jerome Wilson Dr. Phillip Gleason Dr. Morris Wagner Dr. William Burke Mabeen HerringLeo Corbaci Dr. Ralph Mcinerny Law School Frederick Crosson Walter Nicgorski Francis Beytagh Dr. Bernard Waldman Bernard NorlingThorn as Shaffer James Robinson Library Dr. Thomas Bergin Thomas Swartz Palmer Cone Dr. Robert Austgen Dr. Edward Vasta Joseph Huebner Dr. Emil Hofman 
Business
Richard Sullivan Professional Spec.
Mario Picconi
Dr. William Liu Dr. Lewis Perkey 
~ Robert Williamson
Thorn as Broden 
~ 
Stephen Kertesz Student Reps.
~ Engineering
Dr. Morris Pollard James Low
Dr. Charles Allen
Dr. John Magee Judi Offerle
Dr. Raymond Brach
[ David Sparks Dennis Ryan
Dr. Don Linger
John Goldrick James Stevens
Arthur Quigley
~ Dr. Norman Haaswer Bro. Finian Taylor John Mazza
ScienceArts and Letters 
Not all these people were members of not on the council at that time, attempt to the council when the calendar vote solicit their committment to support the passed. Particualrly the student student's side of the calendar dispute. representatives were not members. But It's one of the last chances that students call allthesepeople nontheless. Find out if have to change the calendar. they were on the council when they voted took place. If they were, find out why they voted and if they voted. If they were Jerry Lutkus 
r 
the observer 
Night Editor: Joe Abell Typists: Connie Fourre, Tom Modglin, Mary Assistant Night Editor: AI Rutherford Romer, Mike Seidel. Howard Halle. Layout: Celeste Ponteri, Jerry Lutkus, Tom Drape Compugraphic: Bob Steinmetz Day Editor: Terry Keeney · Pictures: Jerome Phillips Copy Editors: Greg Rowinski, Pattie Cooney Night Controller: Howard Haile 
Dpinian 
The Calendar 
j seth 
The 74-75 academic calendar is presenting a problem we may be failing to fully comprehend or at least recognize. Both the students and the administration want what is best for Notre Dame. Neither of us however will admit the other's definition of "Notre Dame." The administration seems somewhat muddled in its definition, while the students appear quite clear in theirs. 
The students define Notr" Dame as essentially the people who study, teach, and live in the academic community of this place called Notre Dame duLac. We feel our voice should be sincerely listened to and taken with some credance\sinceit is the students that are being most immediatelyaffected by such things as a change in the academic calander. Some of us see work days cut short and much needed moey not earned. Some of us see that week at the end of the summer set aside for vacation disappear. Some foresee being stuck here for the midsemester breaks without the dining halls or the Huddle being open. 
Others have different reasons and few will say they would rather start heforeLabor Day There :!efinitely is a student ~,.;nited front on this issue. 
The administration would define "Notre Dame" in a much ex­panded form ancl therefore less concrete. The administration would add to the students definition all the people that lived and will live in this community. It is on these grounds that it justifies not acting on sincere and expressed student rationale. The adminstration is mainly concerned with the consequences ofof a post-Labor Day start. By starting before Labor Day we will no longer have a four day mid­semester break. The administration will therPforeremove from the professors the problem of forcing students to stay here until the ap­pointed time and day. The semester willendless cramped and less full of a strain. More time will be spent away from the University making the lime spent here more fertile. All ofthese "benefits" improve the academic quality of Notre Dame the institution and so indirectly the people now here and those of the past and future as well. 
But what of the new morality this Umversity is trying to develop in the men and women that are maturing here in the light of a desperate lack of marality in our nation's leadership" The administration is working at crosspurposes One wants to increase the development of the students here--the University going co-ed, the attempt to impress on the faculty the need to teach more than the academics of a subject by the necessary morality of man's existence as well, student members on most of the llniversity's councils. The other wants to improve the University to the degree that education would become nearly tape recorder-like if the student 711-235438 puts in four years of academics at Notre Dame then he is among the top 50 per cent of the country. This "other"type of Notre Dame does not allow student imput to the issues that concern them. 
All want the best possible education NotreDame~an provide. Each student makes Notre Dame his home for four long years. It becomes our community in that we are concerned and anxious over what it does and what happens to it. We share in its successes voice on an issue that directly affects them where is the morality of failing to hear what is being said. If need be, make us suffer the consequences our voices dictate. Let us learn more than what is the acadmeic of this com­munity of Notre Dame. 
daanesbury 


Friday, November 30, 1973 
Letters Ta R Lanely Eiad • 
•
1n the land of the grinches 
reverend rabert t:~riff~n 
•4

If there is one symbol of faith that binds as quaint and special as wax produced by every stairway on campus, including the auld have had at the movie featuring Pa the years of our lives together, joining the the industry of bees, because the Mass­fourteen floors of the library, to check O'Brien and Ronald Reagan. But, yo; ~ 
Decembers of childhood to the Decembers candles are symbols of Christ, the Light­against the fire hazards that natural know, I think I could have used Spence 4 of young adulthood and middle age, it is the bearer, and the flame burning through the Christmas trees may present. Tracy and Mickey Rooney at Boys' Town seasonal Christmas tree. We may grow cold pure wax symbolizes the mystery of the That promise may not add much new Boys' Town was a bit of a disppointment. ~• in the practice of the Christian faith. God-touched humanity in the life of Jesus peacefulness to the sleep of the Nore Dame First of all, there seemed to be hard!: t Cynicism may make us skeptical of Christ. Fire Department, snug in the knowledge anyone, least of all boys, there that belonge1. ~ 
messages of brotherhood preached by Light bulbs will not do as substitutes for that the helmeted Griffin and O'Gill are on to the place, not counting the great audienc angels in the night sky over Bethlehem. We candles in the liturgy. Plastic spruces will fire watch, guarding the campus. But is is that came to the concert. Boys' Tow· may have developed thick crusts to protect not satisfy as symbols of eternal life at the gift of all the energy either one of us has; seemed cold in a way that institutions ofte. ~ ourselves from the responsibility of loving Christmas. Easter will not be fittingly and in truth I think that the Christmas tree, seem cold: it seemed a place withou and caring about others. Then, suddenly, celebrated if the altar lilies are as a sacramental of the Christ-birthis one of warmth, without heart, without hospitality. •i
made of those truths men and dogs should be ready There was asinglestatue ("He ain't heavy
we are caught off-guard, into a surrender to wax. That is why a quiet man must protest I 
grace, by the beauty of a Christmas tree the outlawing of natural Christmas trees to die for. Father ... he's m)' orother.") that Iinke•· I with the balmy scent of its branches from the campux this year. Dreams die hard, when you are middle­those seemingly empty buildings to th· I touching our senses and the dark, green aged; and while some of you may dream of place celebrated by Tracy and Rooney a. boughs hung with tinsel and light touching the grinches are here •
a white Christmas, my own seasonal dream the City of Little Men. We couldn't even ge is that of the still, shimmering tree on the the use of the chapel to say Mass; so, in , •our blindness. With the stirring of memory morning celebrating the Savior's birth. room in the firehouse, we offered Mass at •
deep within us, we remember an ancient Dr. Seuss tells the awful story of the ~ 
Last week, one of my other favorite dreams lunch table, using plastic cups and platesbirth that makes all of us children once dreadful year when the Grinch stole bit the dust, and I would like to digress with a Gideon Bible ripped off from ;
again. Christmas. I hope it does not seem • 
one enough from Christmas to tell you about it. Ramada Inn, with home made wine and c
The Christmas tree, evergreen with hope irresponsible to say that with ad­... ••
mmunion breads borrowed from th
and promise set into the winter darkness, is ministration urging the dimming of the no mere arbitrary decoration. It is a Christ­Christmas lights, and another ad­it's cold in boys' town Lutheran pastor. I think there was beaut •~ symbol declaring our hope of life and God's ministration insisting on the use of the 
in that Mass, but the beauty I find there, an . promise of life. It is the tree of life set in the plastic bush, it seems to me that the grin­There were two great movies I saw as a •
in most other places at Boys' Town, was th landscapes of death that gives cheer to ches are at work among us. •
beauty we had brought with us in the Notrchild; and even for a Protestant kid, they Dame Gee Club. •every man's journey in the darkness. That is unfair, of course. Notre Dame is may have had a formative influence af­I hope those who visit Notre Dame wil
not the land of the grinches, and my words fecting my ultimate decisions as to the ~ 
no plastic, please never find it an institution without love
written here would seem very mocking if practice of religion. One movie was "Knute ~ 
without hospitality, without a heart. That i 
there were to be even one little fire in Rockne, All American"; the other was ~
why I think we on this campus need to makYou cannot, with any sense of trust, have which even one student were injured by the "Boys' Town". I needn't tell you the way in the spirit of Christ as visible as possible i:artificial substitutes for the authentic combustion of a Christmas tree, or if Zahm which Knute Rockne, through Notre Dame, all the ways that touch the senses. That i ~ symbols of faith. If Christmas trees speak Hall were to burn to the ground because of a has touched my life. But last week, for the 
to Christians of their' hope in Christ, then short circuit among the spruce branches, why the Christmas season should be
first time, I went to Father Flanigan's Boys' 
artificial trees need not volunteer for the special season of love for us. That is why
But I do think that fires can be safeguarded Town, and I did it as chaplain to the Notre •­
·job, because they are only witnesses to the am concerned about the Christmas tree

against by the proper precautions. If it Dame Glee Club. I thought to myself: now,
sham. pretense, and expedience of the which is, along with the manger, a tangibh
would be helpful to the protection of life and in my own life, two great memories of
modern age wherein Santa Claus has sold symbol of faith in a love that is never out o
property in a celebration of the season in childhood are now shaking hands with each 
his soul to the merchants. There is a beauty which the true Christmas amenities are season at any time of they year.
other.touching immortality in the candles that observed, Darby O'Gill and I will give up I never needed Knute Rockne to make ,I burn on our altars at Mass. The Church writing Christmas cards, and spend the next Notre Dame a place where I felt I belonged, P.S. Grinches can be Christmas tre 
I insists that these candles be made of a 
three weeks working as fire marshalls· and travelling with the Glee Club is a far people, too.
"" eertain purity of elements, with something moving from one dorm to another, climbing better experience of Notre Dame than any I All that is needed is a memory ofchildhoo 
catching up • • • with alice • • • and ;ethro 
reviews by joseph obel1 
Billion Dollar Babies almost didn't exist; giving the impressioAlice Cooper 
that the two motifs are seaparate songWarnl"r Bros. BS 2685 rudely slapped together. The best example of this last is near th 
Alice Cooper has pretty much established end of the album, when a gentle acousti 
himself as one of the rock shows to see, if for guitar passage is suddenly interrupted by no other reason than curiosity. Tales of racious electric guitar to introduce a ne' 
snakes, toothbrushes and baby clothes theme. The two themes are in themselver 
tantillize the stories one hears about Next, the "babies" get a bit older: "I A Passion Play marvelously intricate, but the transitio Cooper's shows, but oddly enough, one used to be such a sweet, sweet thin-Til they Jethro Tull tends to destroy the soothing effect of th rarely hears about the music played. And got a hold of me." The "babies" of an Chrysalis CHR 1040 first and turns one against the second befor after all, isn't that what it's all about? earlier age are hardly the innocents they it even has a chance. 
were made out to be.
Not necessarily, as this album can attest. Tull has been somewhat of a disap­Even the lyrics refuse to flow as evenly a Alice Cooper seems to be devoted almost Finally, the present: "Molotov milk pointment ever since the Aqualung album. they could have. The entire first half of th solely to the stage with its drama, and goes bottles heaved from pink high chairs-While Oh, I don't mean that Thick as a Brick was album is nearly total nonsense, and onl to great lengths to produce that drama; even Mother's Lib burned birth certificate nothing but a disappointment, but its low becomes coherent after that absurd "fair so far as to subjugate his music to that papers. Dad gets his allowance from his points jus about equalled its high ones, tale" in the middle of the work. 
sonny, the dealer."


drama. producing a fairly balanced, if short of 
And Billion Dollar Babies seems to be As for the rest of the a blum, it's little more · brilliant, work. Unfortunately, A Passion But before you start wondering why little else than music with which to produce than mediocre rock, filler material only. Play does little to improve on the faults of haven't been playing frisbee with this albur. a stage show. It doesn't have the sheer Overall, it is passable album that could Thick, and if anything, creates new faults of for months now, I must point out that ther.. brilliance of drama-within-music that Love have been much better. One sorely misses its own. are many good points about A Passion Play It to Death did, even though it does reach the visual aspect when Cooper tries to The worst part of this effort is that it is The foremost of these is the excellen high spots that approach the peaks of the impart a sense of the perverted in his music simply too much. Ian Anderson seem!> ,o quality of music played, despite the rathe earlier work. But for the most part, the (muchas the sense of insanity in Love It To work very hard to create an effect, and here confused organizatin. Trying to pick out music of Billion Dollar Babies seems to be Death), and generally fails. The only real he works too hard: the effect is just too standing members of Tull would be namin incomplete. It needs something visual to go success comes on a level that Cooper much to take. Passages that require a each of them, something that has bee. 
with it to give an effect. probably didn't strive for: the distrubingly delicate hand are garishly lavish; fragile, rather consistent with all Tull efforts. 
Cooper even treats the album like a show, close to home descriptions in his trilogy. tenuous bridges and handled a if theyopening it with "Hello, Hooray," a rather Second of all, Tull has shown, if nothinf sharp song that could very easily open his 
else, that it can progress musically fron stage show. In it, he welcomes the audience album to album, as a group. Different in to the show, describing his elation to finally ·~luences, most notably jazz, have surface• be able to perform for them. It could almost m Passion Play. ­be described as a theme song for nearly all Other brilliant passages are the tw1 performers. The only other song of note on "dances" before and after the "fairy tale' the first side is the title track, which, and the introductory passage. 
1 coupled with "No More Mister Nice Guy" 
and "Generation Landslide" of the second But perhaps I'm being unfair to the alburr side, form a trilogy of sorts (however all around. Many say that Andersor 
1originally conceived it not as an album, bu
separated), dealing with the "billion dollar . as a show: the cover and the "fairy tale'
babies": modern youth.In the first, Cooper tells how these 
·are both totally incomprehensible withou• seeing the Tull shQW. But somehow tha·
"babies" came from "the dimestore. No other little girl could ever hold you," ·argument doesn't hold water; I 'pait describing them as oh-so-expensive and oh­
mymoney for an album not a show and aE ·~uch, the work should be able to stand up or
so-delica te. 
. rts own. Unfortunately, it doesn't. 
MUSIC 


the observer Friday, November 30, 1973 
are you up to snuff? 
fred graver 
For me, the idea of sticking After their remarkable attempt 
is the rise of the common man, the snuff company's most viable h!n?:s in my nose to obtain to impress the unimpressable, they bringing with him a less-cultured market : people "Who already are pleasure lost its glamour when, in turn to the intellectuals and avant­manner of sniffing. The second in the habit of snorting various the fourth grade, I sat next to garde. "Snuff sniffers are found at was the invention of the strike­substances for their stimulating Karen Tracy. She had a nose that the very vortex of our society." anywhere match; which effect." They describe a real bled like Niagara Falls -mostly "Right, guys," I think to myself," demanded use and thus prompted sniffer in the process of "getting because she was constantly just alongside the old fellows on the the ruse of cigarette use. off". "Snuff goes right to the head probing her little nostrils with road crews workking all day on a through the nose membranes. It is pens, pencils and, more often than good chunk of chaw." Just then it came to me. This a direct hit without the harmful not, her fingers. whoe thing is a put-on, and these side-effects." 
So when I was told to write Figuring that they at least have snuff-sniffers are just a bunch of I think that what these snuff­something based on a promotional your attention, these never-say-die practical jokers. Sure enough, the sniffers really need is a more release about a San Francisco commandos of propaganda next page confirmed my belief. glamouous approach in their company attempting to revive the barrage us with the ultimate There, depicted in gory advertising. Perhaps adding a tradition of snuff sniffing, it didn't challenge: illustration, was one man's first iittle sex could help. A contest to ~xactly strike me as the next ob­"Don't blow your mind; cleanse experience with snuff. The copy find the .nation's sexiest nose-with Ject for use-abuse on campus, your mind! Are you up to snuff? read, "Most people get off to a a minor category based · on 'ollowing in the footsteps of alcohol Are your ready for the New Age of accuse our society of culturally bad start with snuff. Usually they "sniffability" -would get then a 
:md drugs. Elegance? Better than rose­brainwashing its members against try snuff just once, and there are a little publicity. 
The firm responsible for this coloured glasses, snuff puts the sniffing. Working over the roster couple of reasons for this." Jromotion is based on Madison world in better odour." (I made a of higher-class occupations, they "Most chewing tobacco and Better yet, having some already <\venue, and they should get some mental note to bring along a tin the come up with the fact that the snuff available is pretty vile," they famous noses endorse snuff­;ort of award for appealing to next time I was going to drive custom of placing tobacco in one's admit, then go on to say that the sniffing would begin th rise to 'very facet of our culture in one through Gary.) · nostrils, "for that nice, cool rush", reason for the low quality is that popularity. The first commercial 
·elease. goes back to the tradesmen, most snuff is produced by tobacco could center on snuff's appeal to all First, they go straight for those This was going a bit too far, peasants, slaves and servants. companies primarily concerned ages. folks who just plain refuse to be because now they were slamming <Undoubtedly the "Vorteli of our with cigarettes, and use the left­"Jimmy Durante. Barbra 
:old anything. "Snuff is amply away at the health-food people and Society">. over and reject tobacco for snuff. Streisand. Dumbo. Three ·ewarding in itself," they say," the fashion-fad-conscious in one The great plea to the sociological The whole thing began to sound Generations of Noses to be proud ·marking you neither as con­move. minds comes in the form of a like a Jimmy Dean Sausage of. Treat your snout to something 
·orming nor non-conforming, but As if they had a true grudge to definition of the two major causes commercial. proud ... Eucalyptus-flavored 
lS discriminating." bear, these wizards proceeded to of the decline of sniffing. The first Finally, the promotion turns to snuff." 
visionary architecture at the ISIS gallery 
greg aiello 
It looks like the weird stuff you that depends on the technological beyond the city, such as Stephen with art than with engineeringused to see on "The Jetsons." The barriers being broken down, the Alicandre's design for a World 
because of the visual, esthetic 
designs are for the kind of ar­cost being reduced, and a demand Ecological Study Center. There is factore. Both disciplines contain chitecture you might have seen at arising." the 1963 design for a Teenage Club common elements of visual the New York World's Fair or at Palp Soleri is one of the more by B. Yorsten that puts Corby's, stimulation with architecture being 
Expo, all unique and strange and noted examples of a visionary ART Nickies', an the Library to shame. a large scale expansion of art, an wonderful. architect. To understate the case, Ther is also Jim Kelleher's 1967 expansion whose fuction it is to "Visionary Architecture" is the Soleri is not committed to the design of a Free Flight cage and 
protect man and create spaces in 
subject of the current Isis Gallery present way of building buildings, Andrew Schmitz's 1971 design and which he may live." 
show and the work of the creative cities, or societies. For the past Briefly, Soleri's idea is to con­model of a modualr house called "Visionary Architecture" has 
architect is in evident display. The few years he has been constructing Project Evolution.
serve nature by buildin~: up to been running since November 12 show consists of over 20 selected a new world out in the arizona create dense, self contained .en­The show is a rare example of a daily at the Isis Gallery from 1 PM 
visionary works from the Notre desert that is based on the prin­cooperative effort getween the
vironments. He says, "An ar­to 4 PM and concludes today. The 
Dame Department of Ar­ciples from h!s book Arcology. Architecture and Art Depart­
cology (formed from architectere show is less impressive that the chitecture in celebration of its This "city," called Arcosanti, is 
and ecology) is a vast three ments. Knevel belie' ~s these idea which an idea which nmay
75th anniversary. To put it neatly, rising new on 4,000 acres, .70 miles endeavors should be encouraged. to as
dimensional strudture which need be seen realized we 
visionary architecture is imagined from Phoenix, by the work of over "Maybe the departments should
houses urban man in the most reach the limits of urban growth.
environments which are 2,000 volunteers. Soleri calls it "a combine." he says. "The art
ecologically sound and con­As Palo! Soleri warns, "Nature theoretically feasible. It is a self testing_ school for urban centrated (miniaturized) way. student can learn more about his conservation now depends on our 
concept of design that emphasizes studies." art through architecture and vice
Arcology is conceived as the stage ability to create new and radical 
an experimental, novel approach versa. Many schools do have
beyond the city." urban patterna which are the 
to human environments. "Arcosanti is a prime example On display at the Isis .:;how is combined programs. I think ar­legimate sugjects for architectural 
"All archite<;ture is visionary in of visionary architecture in chitecture has more in common
Notre Dame's own version of life thought." 
a sense," commented architecture reality," says Knevel. "These are student Ken Knevel. "Architects piople with a vision of life. They are always looking for new en­actually pay Solori to work for vironments to which man can him. He can't afford construction relate. Visionary architecture is a crews. He doesn't relate to nature continuation of man's search for like Frank Lloyd Wright does, but utlpra. At a certain point these he incorporates that feeling in a 
things may become a reality, but different way." 
CinemaED presents 
FRITZ 

LANG'S 
WITH PETER LORRE 
"Powerful pathological study." 
NEW YORK TIMES 
"One of the true classics of the cinema." 
HERALD ·TRIBUNE 
DECEMBER 1st & znd SATURDAY & SUNDAY
Ii. 
B & 1Dpm-EN13. AUD. ADMISSION -811.00
• ~ • PATRONS FREE • ~U&..TUAAL AAT.B CCJMM-ICINI
it ~ 

Student Union Presents: 
No1~re l~ame 
Football Specia,l! 
Train. Trip Package to the Sugar Bowl 
only $130.00 * 
Package includes: 
-Round trip train fare from Chicago -Food and Party on the Train -4 days and 3 nights in the Brandiff Place Hote! (located 5 blocks from Bourbon Street) 
Packages Available Monday 7-9 pm S·tudent Union Ticket Office 
+Deposit of $25 required -balance due on Dec. 10 +Package does not include football ticket. 
'''' 


"The LaFortune renovation plan can't be passed in its present form," commented Vice !President of Student Affairs Philip Fac­cenda. The comment was made in reference to the Irish Pub, designed and promoted by Senior 
' Architecture Student Ken Keneval and the· LaFortune renovation committee. Faccenda noted that the cost of the p1·esent plan is too great, but that a larger scale plan may be ,' considered. Such a plan would include the Haynes (Psychology) Building, LaFortune and the Old Field House. 
Chicago 7 def,~nse lawyer 
Accusecl of misconduct 
CHICAGO (UP!) -Former 
U.S. 
Attorney Thomas A. Foran Thursday accused Chicago Seven defense lawyer William 

M. 
Kunstler of fomenting courtroom disturbances during the 1969-70 riot conspiracy trial. 


Foran, who was chief govern­ment prosecutor at the trial, testified as a witness for the government which is trying five of the original Chicago Seven and their two attorneys on contempt citations imposed at the end of the trial on Feb. 14, 1970. 
Foran said Kunstler was to 
.blame for an outburst which ended in the gagging and shackling of then Black Pan­ther Party Chairman Bobby Seale. 


Partitions to be opened 
by Joseph LaFiare Staff Reporter 
The North Dining Hall plans to open the partitions between B and C line, and between D and E line, begininning tonight at dinner. Lawrence Aronson, Manager of Food Services of the Hall. "There have been some favorable com­ments about this idea. It would make the atmosphere more con­benial," Aronson suggested. "However, we are doing this on an experimental basis and must hear the students' opinions of this through use of the feedback card­s." 
He added, "This should not have any substantial effect on the workload of the student workers." 
Aronson is apprehensive that 
Ballet canceUed 
The Cultural Arts Commission has Cancelled the Bella Lewitzky Dance Company which was to appear at O'Laughlin Auditorium, Saturday, December 1, due to emergy financial considerations. 
The next event in the Dance and Drama Series will be Marcel Marceau's performance in Februa 
Faccenda commented further that "work on theproject is being done as fast a humanly possible." He added, "I can't tell everyone to drop what they're doing and work on Ken's project." 
The backlog of work in Student 
Affairs  office  is  making  the  
Januardy  15  deadline  for  the  
project difficult to meet.  

"We've got a time problem trying to rework the project," said Faccenda' 
Knevel summarized the com­mittee's opinion saying, "I want to see the project completed and I think the students want it to." He 
added that he would continue working on the project. 
"Mr. Kunstler took Seale down the primrose path by leading him and the court to believe he was Seale's lawyer," Foran testified. 
Kunstler did not reveal he was not representing Seale until after the trial had started, Foran said. 
Seale testified earlier in the current trial that his outburst 
was  triggered by  the  refusal  of  
U.S.  District  Judge  Julius  J.  
Hoffman  to  hear  his  objections  

to not being represented by counsel. 
Seale had unsuccessfully sought a delay in the start of the old trial until the attorney of choice, Charles Garry, San Francisco, recovered from an operation. 
there may be more 'food fights' Ihan usual. "If so, we will just go back to the partition system," Aronson said. 
Mary Clare Molidor and Pete Clemens, both student members of the Food Service Advisory Com­mittee, agreed with Aronson. Molidor said, "The primary reason for this change was the at­mosphere. It would make the dining area roomier." 
SMC 
THEATRE 
SEASON 1973-74 
Dr. Philip Faccenda (above) blames the delays on La Fortune renovation on high costs. 
Panel discussion in Farley Hall 
by Jane Thornton 
Staff Reporter
"Signs of our times: Sacraments as Practical" will be the topic for a panel discussion led by Fr. Dick Conyers, Assistant Keenan Rector, and Frs. Carl Dehne and Giles Pater, doctoral candidates in the liturgy depart­ment, at 7:30p.m., Sunday night, in the Farley Hall chapel. 
Farley residents had requested 
penance services and other forms 
of liturgy. Farley junior and 
coordinator Barb Budde said, "We 
felt the need to explore the 
sacraments as an expression of 
man's basic needs and relationship 
to God." 
All students are invited. 
Calendar survey 
(continued from page 3) 
questioned the validity of Burt­chaell's reasoning: "We did not see any vote or poll publicized nor were we ever approached as a group of individuals. We therefore question the validity of this can­vass. We would like to know exactly who was polled and precisely what was asked of them." 
McLaughlin complained that the overwheliming results of the HPC survey are not being given proper considera tiom. "The hall presidents object to the facttha tthe student poll was lightly dismissed as being less than what Fr. Burt­chaell had expected." 
"We welcome the AcadeJi1ic 
Council to match their canvass 
against the poll conducted through 
the HPC," he concluded. 
phmning n \\('tkl ing',, eall TIK' 234-5822 
\~'<kling Phoh~raptx,. 
234-5822 MCHAEL LONIER 
~~~ 
RESERVATIONS 284-4176 Bus. Hrs. 283-7054 Show Nites 
Student-Faculty NO-sMC Staff 
$150 
Southern Methodist 
School of law 

A representative will-be here on Monday, Dec. 3 from 11 am -1 pm to interview students. Rm 221, Adm. Bld-g. 

Paintings, Graphics, Sculpture, Photography and Drawings 
Discriminating Gifts from the Area's Leading Artists. 
Ground Floor 100 Center 
Mishawaka, Indiana 
256-0701 


HOUIS: ' 
MON • TUES -1ltUl -fll PAM .5:30PM 
WBl • SAT 9 AM 12 NOON 
COMPLm: $t'IICI"ACI.E 
SEIVICE 

ALL fl E 01..'$ P'IIESCIIIPTIONS HONOIB: 
Calf 

289-7809 

Thieves' Carnival 
Jean Anouilh's merry masquerade 
Dec. 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 at 8:30p.m.· 
Washington Hall (Notre Dame) 

..---------------------­
.'.  ,_.  .r·  I•  
10  the observer  Friday, November 30, 1973  
To help anglers  

Fishy research project 
A University of Notre Dame research project which sounds fishy may someday help anglers increase their catch. 
Dr. David W. Morgan, assistant professor of biology, is collecting fish from local lakes and streams and monitoring the sounds they make in their natural environment and in the laboratory. Thus far he has recorded largemouth bass, 
• 
says what,then someday we may be 
Hearlng may abie to tell how many of what fish 
bar Agne W Jaw
from 
ANNAPOLIS, Md. (UPI) -A hearing that could result in former Vice President Spiro T. Agnew being barred from practicing law is scheduled to begin in Anne Arundel County Circuit Court Dec. 18. 
Attorneys for Agnew and the Maryland Bar Association agreed on the hearing date this week. i 
The bar association filed a petition last month seeking a disciplinary hearing for him as a result of his no contest plea to a charge of income tax evasion on Oct. 10. He resigned from office the same day. 
The bar charges that Agnew's no contest plea is proof of professional misconduct. A three-judge panel appointed by the Maryland Court of Appeals, the state's highest court, will preside over the hearings. 
The panel will recommend to the court what action if any should be taken against Agnew. The court of appeals has the final say on disciplinary action against attorneys in Maryland. 
Washington County State's Attorney Daniel Moylan, one of three lawyers representing the bar association, said he be­lieves that Agnew's attorneys will request a suspension rather than disbarment. 
But Agnew's attorney, Leon 
H. A. Pierson, refused com­ment. 
. -
Woman feigns relationship 
SAN FRANCISCO <UPI)~ When Howard Glassman, a dental student, woke up at 3 
a.m. Thursday he saw a beautiful young Oriental woman standing near his bed. 
"Shh," she whispered, putting 1her finger to her lips. "I've just been with your roommate.' Where's the front door?" 
Glassman smiled and ges­
tured towards the front door. The girl, dressed in leotards 
and a gray coat, tiptoed to his
bedside, gave him a friendly kiss and left. Later, Glassman checked 
with his roommate, Fred ~~~=~-; ~· ~ Lamb, 23, and found that Lamb d d knew nothing about the beauti-[ Jor an For ful visitor. He also found that a 
checkbook and $15 in cash were Mishawaka· missing. l~oo------------t. 

MARKET 
THIEOES 
2309 E EDISON lo2 BLK EAST OF IRONWOOD SOUTH BEND INDIANA . 
40 PERMANENT DEALERS OF UNUSUALLY DISPLAYED ANTIQUES AND ORIGINAL ART . ALSO HANDCRAFTS.
... 
Christmas shop for the unusual
t t 

sunfish and several species of minows. After completing the survey Morgan intends to select one species for a detailed analysis. 
The biologist, an authority on what communication, believes the study may eventually lead to sonic means of identifying fresh water fish species, estimating populations, and attracting or repelling fish. 
"If we can build a catalog of who 
are in a lake just by dropping an underwater microphone overboard and listening," Morgan said. "We might also be able to attract desirable fish into our nets and repel undesirable ones." 
The so-ealled "silent world" is a lot noisier than most people think, according to the fish behaviorist. "If you stick a hydrophone (un­derwater microphone) down there during certain times of the year, such as the mating season, you're really in danger of getting your ears blown off," he suggested. 
Fish generate sound in a variety of ways. The methods include rasping teeth on food, rubbing one part of t.he anatomy against another, much as a cricket chirps, lind vibrating a membrane by shifting air in the swi bladder, the hollow sac which many fish have to regulate buoyancy, Morgan ex­plained. In general, sound is employed by fish for such purposes as mate attraction, prey or predator detection, species recognition and defending territory. 
For his detailed single species analysis, Morgan is seeking a fish which generates sound both in the wild and in the lab during most of 
RESEARCH 
$2 PER PAGE 
FREE CATALOG 
Our up-to-date mail-order catalog list­ing thousands of topics is available absolutely free-we'll even pay the postage! Delivery takes 1 to 2 days. Write 
NAT'L RESEARCH BANK 
420 No. Palm Dr., Bev. Hills, Cal. 90210 TELEPHONE: (213) 271-5439 Material is sold for 
research purposes only. 
IS TRANTER 
259-1981 
~=-~~~~CRAIG KAPSON
259-1981 
-m-A-cAftl 
the year. The fish als() must have value as a species harvested. by man or as food for those species. 
Amont the many things which he hopes to learn are how the fish produces its characteristic sound, what purpose the sound serves, and how important it is to the fish's total behavior. 
To determine the meaning of the various sounds, Morgan will simultaneously record the fish sounds and his description of their behavior on a two-track tape recorder. 
"If the fish are performing behavior "a" when S()Und "b" is produced and the correlation continues throughout the tape, then we cansay that sound "b" has something to do with hehavior "a". 
This correlation can he checked by playing the sound back to the fish underwater to see if it eliits the same behavior," he said. 
"It's a lot like translating B language. Once you knowwhat two or three sounds or words mean it's easier to learn what the others on either side of them mean," Morgan added. 


Long distance still is the next best thing to being there. And you can save money by calling nights or weekends. 

@ Indiana Bell 
-~-~-----------------------T--.-~----------­
Friday, November 30, 1973 the observer 1 1 
ND swimming teammeets Waterloo in 1913 opener 
The 1973-74 season for the Notre Dame swimming team begins this weekend at home wil~h the In­vitational relays and a duel meet against the University of Waterloo. 
Returning from last year's 7-5 squad are 11 lettermen, but four valuable letter winners were lost through· graduation. Picking up the slack left by the graduated John Sherk and Gene Krathaus will be the biggest problems facing Coach Dennis Stark. Last season, the Irish equaled or broke every varsity record except two, as well as a number of Roekne Pool records. 
Although Sherk and Krathaus will be missed in the distance freestyle, butterfly and freestyle 
' sprints respectively, Coach Stark can turn to a number of veteran swimmers for leadership this season. Captain for the Irish is senior Ed Graham the team's top performer in the individual medley. Jim Kane, a junior from Owings Mills, Md., nearly qualified for the na tiona! cham pionsillips last season in the 100-yard freestyle. He has been named twice as the most valuable swimmer, and should once again provide leadershp in the freestyle sprints. Coming along very strongly in the late stages of last season to set both Notre Dame backstroke records was Bob Thompson. Thompson, a North Olmstead, 
Busy weekend 
faces wres,tlers 
Coach Fred Pechek faces a busy first week on the job,. as the new Notre Dame wrestling coach leads his team into three maltches. The Irish opened up Tuesday with a home match win, 45-9, over Chicago State, and will leave Thursday for a week-end swing in upper New York State. Thursday night the grapplers are at Oswego, and over the week-end they will compete in the Rochester In­vitational Tournament. The Irish don't return to their home mat until Sunday, December 11th when they host St. Joseph's of Indiana. 
Pechek is not quite sure what to expect from the early opponents but he is optimistic about achieving a winning record, something that eluded the Irish last year when they finislhed 6-11. Pechek is also hopeful some of his better wrestlers can claim 
regional championships and place in national competition. 
Pechek comes to Notre Dame after a successful four-year tenure at West Liberty State<W.Va.) that included a 17th place finish at the NAIA Championships last year and first or second place con­ference finishes all four years. He is a graduateof Notre Dame where he wrestled on the varsity team two years and holds graduate degrees from both Notre Dame and Purdue. 
Six lettermen return to he team including AI Rocek who needs only 14 wins (he won 22 last year) to become the all-time career leader. In two seasons Rocek has won 35 
matches  at  both  190  and  
heavyweight.  
Other  outstanding  returnees  

include Dave Boyer who won 17 matches as a freshman last year, Rich Gilloon who has posted a winning record over the last two seasons, and Joh Dowd who tied a record for most reversals in one season. A group of fin1~ freshmen could break intothestarting line-up especially in the lighter weight classes where first-year men Skip Mondragon and Dan Heffernan figure prominently. 
Ohio junior incurred knee surgery last October, recovering well enough to letter by the season's end. Joe O'Connor, ND record holder in the 440 freestyle returns in the middle distance freestyle again this season, as does Jim Fischer who last season broke the six-year standing records in the breastroke. Ed Strack in the butterfly as well as Mark Foster, Dan Makielski and Chris Payne in the diving competition will help provide the needed leadership for the many young Irish tankers. 
Six freshmen make their initial appearance for Notre Dame this weekend. Expected to make the biggest contribution right from the start are Bob Reilly in the but­terfly, the Virginia state cham­pion, and Bob Ebel in diving, a seventh place finisher in the Missouri state diving finals. 
1973-74 marks the 16th year for Stark as head coach of the Irish. Thus far he has compiled a lifetime record of 92-81-1 and among other goals for the coming season in­cludes the achievement of his lOOth career victory. 
Stark commented, "Although this is the smallest team ever at this stage depthwise, we have our goals set on a couple of different targets. We hope to send Notre Dame's first representative to the NCAA finals as well as repeat as the champion of the Motor City Invitational. As for this weekend, I hope we will be able to repeat as champion of our. Invitational Relays. We lack depth so I hope that everyone is ready." 
The Irish will be competing against the same five opponents of last year's relays. Also par­ticipating will be Bradley University, Drury College, Oakland University, Wayne State University and Valparaiso. The 1972 relays required first place finishes in each of the final two relays to enable the Irish to edge Drury 95-91, for the crown. 
Coach Stark looks at the com­petition this way, "Drury gave us the most competition last season and undoubtedly will be the most powerful opponent again this weekend. I think we're in shape as staying here over the Thanksgiving break was very beneficial. I can't really say how we'll do though since time trials don't give a good idea of what to expect. 
On Saturday, the Irish will host the University of Waterloo <Canada). Notre Dame dominated last year's away meet with W~terloo, winning handily 71-42. This Saturday's meet will begin at 2:00p.m. at the Rockne Pool with Friday's Invitational starti~g at 7:00p.m. 
OBSERVER 
SPORTS 

The Academic Commission Presents 
THE T-ROJAN WOMEN 

8:00 pm TONIGHT 10:00 pm ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM . 
Admission $1.00 
CLUBS, SECTIONS, ROOMMATES, HALLS 
Volunteers to give Christmas parties for Head Start children 
CALL 7308 STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE 
I 
~ 
j 
l 

CLASSIFIED FIDS 

NOTICES 

Students from New Mexico and the Southwest: Let's help each other ->nd get home -for Christmas. If you have room in your car, or need a ride call 7833, leave name and number, date you can leave. 
EUROPE! Take advantage of student rates. Talk to the specialists-BOAC British Airways. Group inquiries welcome. Call Clark. 234-2098. 
Morrissey Loan Fund can loan up to $150 at 1per cent interest. 1day waiting period Basement ofLaFortune. ll:15-12:15Mon. Fri. 
OVERSEAS JOBS+ Austrailia, Europe, S. America, Africa. Students al professions and occupations $700 to $3000, expenses paid, overtime, sightseeing. Free information. Write TRANS WORLD RESEARCH, Dept. F3 POBox 603, Corte Madera, Ca. 94925. . 
SPEBSQUA-Ever hear of it? The South Bend Barbershop Chorus invites you to become a part of the largest singing organization in the country. Mondays 8 pm Cathedral of St. James Basement. 117 N. 
LaFayette. For info call Lloyd 7733. 
EUROPEAN STUDY TOUR: England Scotland, Wales and 
Ireland. Dec.27-Jan 15. 2-3 College credits. $679 all ex­penses from NY-NY. Tuesday Dec. 4deadline for enrollment. Call Prof. A.R. Black SMC 284­4948. 
Off campus students: 
GIGANTIC SNATCH!! Free! Outside the off campus office­Mardi Gras raffle packets! 
Take any one , unless you 
musthave your own. Help the 
Master of Middle Earth sell raffle tickets. $2 commission oneach book' 
CHRISTMAS BUSES TO PITTSBURGH: Meeting and COMPLETE PAYMENT DUE tis Sunday, Dec. 2, 7 pm am­phitheatre ALaFortune. No money, no reservatins NO REFUNDS FOR CAN­CELLATIONS. 
SMC Pre-Law meetinf Sunday night 6:30 244 Madelevsa. 
Logan Volunteers: Sat. rec this week 9 am. Please try to be there as ofafter rec we will be planning for Xmas party. 
WANTED 
Help wanted for Saga Food Service. Apply at office Dining Hall SMC. 
OC Roommate needed Leeper Park area $45 mo. Util. incl. Call 272-2445 John before 11 pm. 
FOR SALE 
MEERSCHAUM PI PES! 
Exceptional values, per­sonalized service. Catalog. 
PMP Co. Box 444 Gaither­sburg, Md. 20760. 
Stereo turntable 8 track, speakers receiver. Used 1 semester. 1067. 
nice Christmas box sets , good books for all. Pandoras Books. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Losl silver girls ring initials KMG. Reward. Call Bob. 1207. 
Found blue girsl coin purse found between Cavanaugh. + 
BP. Call 1010. 
PERSONALS 
Maria Teddy Duffy Margo+ friends: GROW UP! 
The Mudsharks. 

Alexander Mundy: We raked over your crashlandinf. Congratulations on the Great Escape! Kathe, Sue, Lynn. 
MICK: are you psyched for this afternoon? Your partner. 
FOR RENT 
4 BR house, recreation room, study, fireplace, wall to wall carpet, just rennovated, completely furnished. For grad students only. Jan. semester or immediate oc­cupation. AI Brasseur 289-2461. 
Rooms $40 mo. Ride 233-1329 
ONE BR apt.  near  NO.  Fur­ 
nished  niceky.  Rate  quite  
reasonable.  Call after 6:  Mrs.  
Kenelly 233-4487,  

-~------------­
Friday, November 30, 1973
the observer
2 
Miami: final obstacle to ·I0-0-0 
tomorrow night, when unbeaten
by Vic Dorr 
Notre Da.me squares off against
Sports Editor 
Miami's menacing Hurricanes. "It's funny," said Parseghian,
Tomorrow evening, when Notre 
"how fate has a way of working
·•ame lines up against the Miami 
things out. We were embarrassed
'urricanes for the last opening 
in our last two games last year, by
ickoff of the 1973 regular season, 
Southern Cal out there and by
tangle of thoughts will be racing 
Nebraska in the Orange Bowl.
1rough the mind of Ara Par­
This year we've erased one of
eghian, the Irish head coach. 
those memories all ready--we did it 
Most of the thoughts, of course, 
when we beat Southern Cal here,
ill be strategic and will be geared 
in our own stadium.
l the situation immediately at 
"Now we have a chance to erase
·and: Which option to take after 
the other. Adn we have a chance to
ie coin toss? Should Brown kick 
do it in the Orange Bowl Stadium." 
eep or squib the ball~ Should 
Senior tight end Dave Casper,
[unter and Diminick run their 
Notre Dame's team captain,
ick ··eturn to the right or the left 
echoed similar sentiments .
. de? 
"We've got something to atone for
But some of Parseghian's pre­
in our last game," he said. "We
anw thoughts may fleetingly 
want b prove that we have come a
·turn to past years and to other 
long way from that debacle and
•ason-concluding games. He may 
that we have a chance to reach our
tink back 10 years, to November 
pre-season goal of an undefeated
' 1964, when his 9-0 club--his first 
season."
otre Dame team--saw a perfect 
Notre Dame has come a long
~as0n fade away in the dim af­
way since the disaster on New
~rnoon light of the Los Angeles 
Year's Night, but completing the
oliseum. 
dream won't be an easy task. For
.. He may think back to November 
before the Irish can atone for their
· 1970 when the same tragedy 
last game in the Oragne Bowl,
~cured in the stadium against the 
they'll have to win this next one.
1me opponent. Or he may think 
And defeating the Hurricanes will 
ack 53 weeks to November of 1972, 
be one of ND's most rugged
•hen Notre Dame played Miami in 
penances of· the '73 campaign.
.1e last home game of the 1972 
"Miami is not a good football 
~ason, and had to hang on during 
"They
' frantic final quarter to claim a team," cautioned Ara. 
are an excellent team. We have
l-17 win. 
had some difficult games with
But if Ara 's thoughts return to 
them over the years and this year
·le past at all tomorrow night, they 
they have the added incentive of
ill probably return to the more 
running our bid for a perfect
~cent past: to January 1, 1973-­
season and defeating a team that is 
even months to the day--when 
bowl-bound.
'otre Dame last played a football 
.1me on the poly-turf surface of "Just look at their record," he iami's Orange Bowl. continued, "and that will show you The Irish were clobbered in that what kind of football team tme----their ill-starred Orange they have. They beat Texas, they owl appearance against very nearly beat Oklahoma, and in .ebraska--and that mismatch will that game against Alabama (a 43­~ on more that a few minds 13 setback) they were close until a 

Captain's Corner 

Notre Dame 48, Air Force 15. Well, just one more regualr season game go and the Irish will havea perfect record, their first since 1949. We ~ve often come close to such perfect records, but somehow they've ways seemed to get away from us. This year, we finish our season
--
morrow night when we take on the University of Miami--and this year e perfect record won't get away from us. But to stray from the dream of '73 for a moment, I'd like to take time to lk about a very important part of our team. It's a part of the team you ·n't very often hear about; however, these players are there day in and 
y out, playing a game they've known since they were old enough to run. The name of this part of our team is the prep team. People don't often alize the importance of a prepper's work--but let me tell you, it is very 
portant. Their job is to prepare the first and second teams for the {:oming game. The way they do this is by acting out the opponent's 1ys on offense, and by rehearsing their formations and stunts on fense. By having this advantage of bing able to prepare we often have an edge 
our opponent before the game even starts. Here at Notre Darhe we cruit many good players, so the people on our prep team are usually as od--and sometimes better--than our actual opponents. This gives our st and second stringers a chance to test plays against the different 
ngs our opponent will do--and usually if we can stop the prpes we can lp our opponents. fhe job of the prepper is a very thankless job with no glory and little )gnition from the public. There is no satisfaction at all except within ~player himself--and that comes from the thought of having prepared ! team to the best of his ability, and the knowledge, really, that the 
•m couldn't do without him. 
know that most of the first and second stringers realize how hard the ~tppers work and how little they receive for their efforts. rhere is another bright side though--and that is that for most of the ~ppers it is only a matter of time until they will be playing full-time at a ·ce where thousands and thousands of boys dream of playing part-time. res, the preppers are a big part of our team. They are usually the 1rk that sets off our first and second units after a long weekend lowing a game. They're usually very high·spirited and they really Jove · game they've been playing for so long. I have a great amount of .pect for all of them because they didn't have to play football and they in't have to come to Notre Dame--but they chose to come here and they )Se to play and they took on a challenge not many other people would 
~ept. ~ooking now at Miarni, they are a very physical, tough team--a team ic1 has always g" .1 us a run for our money and whi<:h has aways ·.de us pay the price I feel, however, that this year's ND team can pay .t price and still ha-~plenty left over for a nice fat Bear Burger. ;o Irish, Beat Miani! 
couple of long punt returns and a fumble on their 10 put the game away. 
"They're dangerous," Ara concluded, "and we're well aware that we're going t.o have our hands full." 
And the Irish are going tohave thier hands full, on both sides of the line of scrimmage. 
Defensively, Notre Dame must throttle a Hurricane offense which is averaging over 300 yard~. per gaem. Junior quarterback Ed Carney (6-3, 196) leads the Miami attack, and it washe who gave the Irish defense fits in last year's game between the two teams. But this year Carney is not alone. He has a trio of bruising, bullish runningbacks behind him in Woody Thompson (6-2, 214), Johnny Williams {5-8, 185), and Tim Morgan. And in wingback Walt Sweeting (6-2, 180), and split end Steve Marcanatonio (6-4, 194) the 'Cane QB has a pair of better­than-adequate passing targets. 
It's not the Miami offense, though, which has been the main tor­mentor of Hurricane opponents throughout the '73 campaign. It's the defensive platoon which C•)ach Pete Elliot has put together in his first year at the Coral Gables School. 

That defense allowed only 15 points against Texas and only 24 against Oklahoma, and is as big and as strong as any defensive team the Irish have faced this season-with the possible exception of USC's Trojans. 
The Hurricane "D" is anchored by an interior line which is second to none. Senior noseguard Tony Christiani (5-10, 215) and junior tackle Rubin Carter (6-2, 255) pose a threat to anything the Irish will attempt between the ends, and Carter, who owns 4.7 speed in the 40 is well on his way to gaining All­American recognition. 
"He's a super athlete," beamed the Miami coach, "the best defensive tackle in college football today. He just does it all. He's big, he's strong and smart, and oh, that speed. Rubin is to defensive tackle what Ted Hendricks was to defensive end when he was at Miami." 
And backing up Carter and Christiani are a trio of talented juniors: linebacker Rich Griffiths (6-2, 218), defensive back Ernie Jones (6-4, 195), and reoverback Paul Horschel (6-0, 190). 
Miami, though won't have a corner on the talent market in tomorrow night's game. The Hurricanes will have to contend with a Notre Dame team which left Air Force thoroughly impressed in the wake of last week's 48-15 victory. 
"Tom Clements (the Irish QB) is the most dangerous quarterback 

· we've played against this season," said Academcy coach Ben Martin, whose club has also seen Penn State, Colorado, and Arizona. Defensive roverback Steve Heil was just as complimentary. "They demonstrated the best play execution we've seen all year," he said. 
Falcon quarterback Rich Haynie had his own comment on Notre Dame's capabilities-particularly on defense. "Their's was the best pass rush I've had all year," he said. "I ate a lot of dirt all day." 
Tomorrow, then, at 7:30p.m. in the Ornage Bowl, Notre Dame's football team will play one of its biggest games of the year. And ND's opponent, upset-minded Miami, is out to make it one of the roughest of the year. 
But regardless of what Miami does tomorrow night, little of it will surprise the unbeaten, fourth­ranked Fighting Irish. Because Notre Dame's coach is a man who has travelled this route before. And is a man who remembers. 







