
.-----------------­
On The Inside 
SMC C.llldidates an­
nounce 
.. page 3 
Stud<•nt Advisory 
Cou nco I report 
... page 4 
~ 

~--------------------~ 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VII No. 105 Monday, April 2, 1973 
Arrested at Nickie's 

Raidsurprises 26ND-SMC'minors' 
poliC<·. Tll'<'lll.\'·six ND-SMC students were arrested. (staff photo by Jim Hunt) 
Sophomore Literary Festival 
Elkin and Potok to arrive today 
in life. he wrote his second work prostrtues. and advice on Bl'nd A venue. 
by Jim Gresser sincPritv. and nrtistic abilitv are 
Criers and Kibitzers, Kibitzers and procuring all manner of illicit wish 
Senior Reporter t'anaora s nas 111aut: :>j.lt:t.:lal unlimited and can lw appn•ciat<'d
Criers. fulfillments." 
arrangements to sell at cost all his and enjoyed by anyorw. 
Novelist Stanley Elkin will read In his thrrd piece of comic fie­His most recent work is the novel hooks. The Chosen. The Promise. from his fiction tonight as the he .Dick Gibson Show which and My Name is Asher Lev. while Fesli1·al History
f ions, A Bad Man. Elkin tells of Leo Sophomore Literary Festival's •lates the trials and tribulations Dr. Potok is in the store. 
Feldman. a department store

main event for the day. Mr. Elkin · a struggling radio announcer. In Tlw Sophomor<' Lill'rary
Dr. Potok. a Jewish Rabbi. has
will speak at 8:00 p.m. in the owner who is sentenced to a year in .is novel Elkin best demonstrates f-'psfil·al itsPlf ll'as conceil·ed in
had all three of his books make the
Memorial Library Auditorium. s tremendous ability to say I!Hii as an l'ntireh· studPnt
prison for providing "such un­lwst spl\er list . Though his books

•mething very pertinent in a very organizPd and studrnt fundPd 
One of the foremost American derworld services in the basement nny way. are mainly written on the Jewish l'l'l'nt. Eaeh spring. litl'rar~ 
corned~ writers. Elkin's is <'Xp<'ri<'nce. his abundant warmth, figun•s an• in\'itl'd to 1 isit tlw marked by what he calls "the of his store as abortions, drugs, Bm~n in New York City and l'ampus and part icipatP in a W<'l'k­tragic inadequacy of a simplistic ·~sentl_y !~aching at Washington 
long program of ll'Cf un•s. rpadings response to life." He writes of mverstly m St. Louis, Elkin will and disl'ussions. Tlw list of nanws 
characters who find themselves in 
' speaking again on Tuesday on of ll'ritPrs ll'ho han• atlcndPd tlw awkward life situations and are ,if<'rature and the Heart· At­fpsf i1·a I is long and imprcssiH·.
unable to resond satisfactorily to 
ck." II<' will remain on campus ineluding .l11sPph ll!•llt•r. Kurt them. Though he looks at his 
tit! Friday. \'isit ing classes and \'t~nnegut. :\orman :\lail<'r. Halpht·haracters with a masterfully 
scussing his work·with students. Ellis11n. .l11hn Knowles. Holwrt humorous eye. Elkin still makes 
llunean. ('Jaudt• Brown. Tom 

nwaningful comments about their Potol~ at Papdoras \\'t~lh'. l.l'HIIi .ltltll'S. (;ary Snyder.
lives and life in general. 
.Jprzy Kosinski. :\lien (;insbprg. 

In his first novel. Boswell: A l>r. Chaim l'otok will also arrive and .lt~lllt Barth. Modern Comedv. Elkin deals with 1 eampus today and though he tlw nPed for a· response to death til not SJWak until Tuesday night. In l!l!i\1. tlw \l'W York Timl's was and portrays one somewhat · will hP I'IStlmg elasses. Also pmmptl'd 111 say that till' \otrl' fruitless rPsponse in the misad­:om :l::IO to ·t::lO p.m. today, Dr: llamt• Sophomol'l' Lit1•rary \'Pntures of his protagonist. . otok will hP autographing books Fl'stil·al is "unlikl' anything of its Ct~\·ering many quPsts for meaning ;tt Pandora's Bookston• on South kind." 
h~· ,\rt FI.'JTanti 
Exl.'l'utivl.' Editor 

'1\n•nt~· six Notre Dame and Saint Mary's/students 1n•n• arn•sll'd a I 1:45am Friday at Nickie'~. a bar at !l:!!l N. Eddy St. near the campus, by mem~ers of the South H!'nd l'olke Department. 
Tht• har was immediately closed and' the students pron•ssPd and hooked at the South Bend police station. Thos<' ahi<• to post the $50.00 bail were released by 11:00 am tlw same dav. 
T1n·nty-rour or' the students were charged with being "minors in a tavern." a misdemeanor, and two with disordPrly conduct. All were booked for court ap­JWaram'<'S. A polie<' spokesman said the raid.called a "lypi1·al <·heck" by an officer. was "on the spur of the monwnt." du<' to complaints. 
The raid began quiPtly with some witnesses claiming 
Stwlenls .found their l'isit to Nickie's abruptly intcrrupl<'d Thursday night by the South Bend 
thP poli<'<' to have been on the premises outside for up to" haIf hour lwfore the officers entered the bar. A few ,.;!udPnts pscapPd out the back door before the police 1'0\'l'l'('d it. 
Tll'o offkPrs sifted into the crowd and quietly sur­l('~·ed tlw situation. Two more officers stayed at the rront door and checked identification as the studel"\'5 ld't. Tlw girls in the bar were the most visilJly disturlwd and many were crying. 
sixteen males nnd ten females <all St. Mary's ,.;ludents1 \\'ere caught. The Alcohol Beverage Com­tn iss ion 1ABCl had nothing to do with the arrests or the raid itself. said the police spokesman. 
1lulside in the street in front of the three building ,·omph•x that comprisesNickie'sone of the more highly ,..lll'l'!'sshtl bars catering to Notre Dame-Saint Mary's ,..fudents patrons crowded the street and surrounded 
llllllll!''~~~~~~~~­
~ 

tlw paddy wagon and two cars of the police. A plain l'lotlws officPr appPared to be in chargE' of the situation and one nfficpr watched the van. It had been estimated to he tlw biggest crowd seen at Nickie's. Thursday night is usually the busiest night for the bar. 
Sonw students attempted to let the air out of the tires of tlw polic£> cars while a few others at times unlocked tlw \'an's door. The attempts resulted in the two disorderly conduct arrests. When students who were :tJTPSIPd · Jpft the bar they covered their faces reminiscent of Mafia arrests, placed their hands on thPir !wads. raised their arms in a victory salute, or n•m·tpd passively. All were cheered by the throng outsid<•. 
A pnlic£> request to clear the street was ignored and n•sultpd in a group of students chanting the Notre llanw \'ictory March. It ended quickly. Finally, two nwn• squad ears one with a dog drove up and the plain l'lotlws dPtective ordered everyone off the streets. Tlw crowd soon broke up at about 2:00am. 
Approximatply forty students <male and female) sho\\'ed up at the South Bend Police Station to bail their friPnds out. Much of the money had been raised during thr raid. Notrp Dame Halls and representatives of St. 
1\latfs also put up bail.  The students  were  finally  
rPIPasPd as !at<' as  II :00 am at the Cit y Jail  on  the  
$~tUlO  hail.  

lltt<' to the swelling number of concerned students in tlw polieP station. all were asked to leave at 2:45am. Tlw an·psfPd students will appear in court Tuesday nwrning. Fines and punishment will be set by the judgP. 
Tlw atTPsted students were asked to give all their pPrsona I itPms tbelts. watches, etc.) to the police at the >dation. The girls wPre allowed to keep theirs. They 11'('1'(' questioned. photographed <with numbers). fingPrprintPd. and returned to the cells. The girls. quick!~· transferred to the City Hall, were released ht'lll'een ~and Ham and the boys later. 
The l'Pils at thePoliceStation accomodate 12. The sixl<'<'lllllale students had to share one cell. They were not told their rights and were officially declared ;ttTPsted after they had been placed in the cell, said one studPnl. Another said that some were not allowed their on1· phone call. A hard roll and coffee composed their hr!'akfast. 
The~· have all decided to plead guilty and pay .,, ha f<'l'<'r fim• the judge selects. However. the two ;I!TPstcd for disorderly conduct. reputedly so charged for IPtling the air out of eight tires. have been said as intPnding to plead innocent. As for Nickie's itself. the 
folloll'ing night. 
.\St. 1\lary's student arrested in the raid said that the girls IH're told that St. Marv's would not take am furthPr disciplinary action. Tlw Obst>rvt'r contacted Fr. Hit•hle. dPnn of students. Friday concerning unil'l'rsity action. Fr. Riehle said that he did not know at that time. The police told the students that their parents would not be notified. 
O\\'IWr 1ras unavailable for comment. It was open the Monday, April 2, 1973 


warld briefs 
(l') 1!17:1 Nrw York Times 
\\"ashin~ton--&•cretary of Defense Elliott L. Richardson has dt'I'Pndl'd thl' ('Ontinuing United States bombing raids on Cambodia as llN't'ssary to kl'ep alive the anti-communist regime of President Lon \:ol and lo prl'ssure Communist forces into accepting a cease-fire as lhl'~' haw in Vietnam and Laos. Richardson, who made his remarks Sunday onlhe "Ml'et the Press" television program, said "it would be n•ry d_iffieult" for the Cambodian government to survive without the air support he<-·ause of "a massive threat by well-armed , well­or~anizt'd ~uerrilla forces, which include forces from North Vietnam II st'll'. 
\\ ashin~ton--The Central Intelligence Agency, under James R. .Sd1lesinger. its new director. is apparently planning to curtail some of ils old adivities. notably dandesl.ine military operations, and un­dt•rtakP sonw new ones. These include action against political lt'ITorism and lhl' international drug traffic. 
't'\\ York--Ll'aders of the diverse consumer groups making up the nwal-hoyeott rnovemPnt said that their week-long effort to drive down prit'Ps \\'as off lo a good start. However, with most meat markets do~wd on Sunday it was too l'arly to gauge the effect of thegroups'pleas lo hnust•wivPs not to buy beef. lamb. pork or, in many cases, poultry, IIIII il April H. 
,,.,, York--Ml'at prices reached their present record levels three to six wt•t•ks hl'fore thP Fl'deral Government placed ceilings on beef, pork. \'Pal. lamb and mutton, according to weekly retail price reports hy llw Nt•w York State Department of Agriculture and Markets for the '\lpv· York City area. 
an campus l:aday 

9:30 Clm --conference, jungian psychology and higher education: lecture, "analytic psychology and education," by thayer qreene, cce 
lecture, "vedanta and jung,'' by arwin vasada, cce 1-5 pm daily adoration of the blessed sacrament, corby hall chapel 
2:00 
pm --conference, lecture, "the 'new woman' in psychotherapy and higher education," june 

k. 
singer, CCE lecture, "jung and the young," by ian baker, CCE 1:30-4:30 pm --visit with chaim potok, pandora's bookstore 


7, 10 pm .. movie, airport, admission: $1.00, Eng. Aud. 
8:00 
pm --sophomore literary festival, reading from his works by stanley elkin, library aud. 

8:00 
pm --film, "civilization," university club 

8:00 
pm --conference,lecture, "art and the unconscious," rudolf michel, cce 




SLC hears convention plea 
by Tom McKenney !\lurk Ut>l'ht>imf'r and Janet 
1. un~fl'llow Staff l'f'porters 

Dl.'an Hobert Ackerman, SLC 
steering committee head, has 
rl'<'eived a petition asking that the 
SLC "hold an emergency meeting 
lo set up regulations and mec­
hanisms for a fully representative 
lt·onstitutional l convention.'' 
Tht• petition will be presented to 
h• SLC at the end of their regular 
mN•ting scheduled for 7:30 tonight 
in mom 202 of the Center for 
Continuing Education. 
A l'opy of the petition appeared 
in Friday's Obst>rvt>r with the n­
ames of 15 "concerned students." 
Since l<'riday the petition has been 
drculated and signed by more 
than :100 persons. 
The petition charges that the 
present procedure for selecting the 
new constitution was subjecting 
the student body "to a continuing 
series of political manipulations." 
Tht• petition went on to state that 
the student body "has been confus­
t•d by the proceedings, and is in 
serious danger of obtaining a 
student government that is not r­
t•presentative of the students." 
/\(·kerman could not predict if 
lht• petition would be put on the 
agt•nda of the next meeting on A­
pril 14, assigned to the steering c­
ommittee, or be assigned to a­
nother <'ommittee. 
BPfore receiving the petition the 
SLCwilldiscuss off-campus living. 
The first item on the agenda is a S­
ummary Report of the Campus L­
Ife Committee to be presented by 
.\ssistantlto the Provost Sister John l\liriam, Dr. Lelie Foschio and Dr. 
ord of the northeast neighborhood, John Roos. and also by Bob Sauer, Student ­
Next will be a hearing on relatio­<;overnment Off-Campus Comm­ns between the communities of issioner. South Bend aPrl Notre Dame. T­After these presentations there alks will be given by Patrick will be an open forum where any 
<;allagher. South Bend Director of resident of South Bend or Notre Safety, Dr. Arthur Quigley, rep­Dame may speak. A specialresenting the Northeast Center, by welcome is extended to off-campus a South Bend resident, by a Iandi-Notre Dame students. 
Grid tix switch still nixed 
by Tim Truesdell 
Starr Rt>porter 
Tt·ansferable student football tickets remain prohibited ac­cording to Ticket Manager Don Bouffard. The primary reason for the no-transfer rule is that ad­mission to the games is viewed as a privilege by university officials. "The sale of student tickets is strictly a gift of the university," Bouffard explained. 
Dennis I H -Man) Etienne and other Student Government representatives recently met with Bouffard to discuss possible ex­t•eptions to the rule. "'We wanted to impress upon the office that seats which are idle should be re­sold and thereby put to better use," Etienne said. "Some persons may feel otherwise but if more tickets \\'t're available there would be ft•wt•r scalpers," he continued. 
The Ticket Committee is ex­pected to reconsider the Student Government proposals at greater l£•ngth within the next few weeks. 
Another decision has been n•ached eoncerning the sale of root ball tickets to part-time students. Those part-time students \\'ho wish to purchase tickets may 

The Paulists are~ tlbuild the earth. 
downtown 
.. on the campus in the parish in the office 
building bridges working with the young and old spreading the Christian spirit, 
praying celebrating 
counseling 
American priests on the move throughout North America. 
, ... IDIJI'e lnha.wtloo wrlte: 
, ....... Dooald c. c-apeu, 
Room 101. 

PaulSImhers. 
415 West 50th Street New York. N.Y. 10019 


cto so in the upcoming season. "Until last year, it was the policy not to sell them to part-time students, but several people were granted the purchase because of permission in various university publica! ions," Bouffard com­nwntl'd. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vilcations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S8 per ~e1Tiester ($14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, 
Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid; Not,-e Dame. Ind. 46556. 
THE MAGIC FLUTE 

Till': NOTIU: DAME-SAINT MARY'S THEATRE 1\lozarl's comic opera l'roduc<'d in association with the St. Mary's College Music Pt•pt. April 6,7,12,13,14 at 8:30 p.m. ()'Laughlin Auditorium, St. Mary's 
Students -Faculty -Staff $2.00 Reservations: 284-4176 

SPECIAL WEEKEND ROOM RATES FOR NOTRE DAME PARENTS OR VISITORS 
$6.95 $8.95 
Single occupancy Double occupancy 
No Notre Dame identification required, just mention this iad. Effective any Fri., Sat. or Sun. thru June 15th, 1973 except for the weekend of MCly 18th. 
HICKORY INN MOTEL 50520 U.S. 31 North South Bend, Indiana 46635 

(219) 272-7555 3 miles North of the Tollroad. 
<,,Ill•· T v., 1\ir Cond, Phones Send Ihis ad lo your Parents. 
An important announcement to every student in the health professions: 
NEW SCHOLARSHIPS ARE AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY. 
THEYCOVER TUITION AND RELATED COSTS AND PROVIDE AN ANNUAL INCOME OF $5,300ASWELL. 
If a steady salary of $400 a month and paid-up tuition will help you continue your professional training, the scholarships just made pos­sible by the Uniformed Services Health Professions Revitalization Act of 1972 deserve your close attention. Because if you are now in a medical, osteopathic, dental, veterinary, podiatry, or OJ>­tometry school, or are work­ing toward a PhD in Clinical Psychology, you may qualify. 
We make it easy fo,· you to complete you1· studies. You're commissioned as an officer as soon as you enter the pro­gram, but remain in student status until graduation. And, during each year you will be 
on active duty (with extra pay) for 45 days. Naturally, if your academic schedule requires that you remain on campus, you stay on campus -and still receive your active duty pay. 
Actire duty requirements are fair. Basically, you serve one year as a commissioned officer for each year you've participated in the program, with a two year minimum. You may apply for a scholar­ship with either the Army, Navy or Air Force, and know that upon entering active duty you'll have rank and duties in keeping with your professional training. 
The life's work you've cho­sen foryou1·self requires long, hard, expensive training. Now we are in a position to give you some help. Mail in the coupon at your earliest convenience formoredetailed information. 
r;~~~~~~~~;-~~~~~, 
lluxA Univ..-aal Citr. T•aaa 11UIJ 

Nam•---,---:----­
h•lnH print} 
s... s... =-------­
Addr-•---------Cil>----------Stat•-----Zit•----

Datto ur birth --:-::,M;-un-,th,...,.1-.,.1;:-Da~>,:--:,:;;y::.a:;-r 
I •l'udialr)· nut a\"allabW in Air Furc:• Prol'ram.


L----------------­




Monday, April 2, 1973 
the observer 

SMC elections to be held Tuesday 
by Mary Janca will replace the former SBP and ; Studen~ Affairs Com~issi?ner. . Each candidate must have Student Government will mount Siafr Rt>porter SBVP offices as part of the student 1·· Active campa~gnmg Will begm submitted her platform and each platform and hang it in the Candidates for three out of four government restructuring_ con-no s?Oner than 8:00 ~.m. Tu_esday . qualifications to student govern-dining hall for all students to read. 
St. Mary's Student Board of dueled earlier this semester. Apnl 3. Each candidate will fund ment and the dean of students for Candidates have the option of Governance offices are running Running for Chairman is junior her campaign expenses, said approval by 9:30 p.m. last posting their pictures next to their unopposed in the Student Govern-Harb McKiernan: for Hall Life current SBP Sue Wlete. No Saturday. platform. ment elections on Tuesday, April Commissioner, Anne Smith, a ('ampaigning may be conducted on 
R • p s h 
10. o;;ophomore; and for Academic the day of theelection.she added. egina res Jlll•t 
These four positions, Chairman, Affairs Commissioner, sophomore Only present sohphomores and e Hall Life Commissioner, Academic Tess Lehman. Junior Monica juniors were allowed to run for Affairs Commissioner, and 
~=~~:~r~r:n!:~rn~o~h~~tr~:en~~ ~~~~~i~ati:n~ we~~h~~ces::r~~ific .ann0 uncescandidcicy
Student Affairs Commissioner 
Smith's experience in the hall Hegina Hall President Ann life area includes membership on Smith yeaterday announced her ' Hegina's hall· council, and she is 
candidacy for Saint Mary's Hall currently president of the hall. 
Life Commissioner. Smith I outlined a number of~ In a statement released to The goals she would work on if elected. l pedestal and back to the students The Chairman is the official ' ObsN'Vt't', Smith explained her · "My experience has shown me-
Calling for "a more definite or else government we have is not spokesman for the student body. reasons for seeking the office: the need for more coordination communication with and goint to benefit us." In announcing· for the chair­"The new student government is within and among the hall unification of the student body," McKiernan is a former Regina manship. McKiernan commented, n big step forward for this school, , governments," she explained. Saint Mary's Student Affairs Hall President elected to the "I'm partly responsible for the nnd I believe it will lead to more "I'd also like to see more hall­Commissioner Barb McKiernan position of Student Affairs Com­new system. and I don't like to organization and unity among the , sponsored activities." announced Friday her candidacy missioner in elections last Spring. start things and then leave them students." In Regina especially, Smith cited for the newly-created chair­She designed the change in student hanging. I'd like to see the plan The change in structure, ac-hall government's success with the manship of the SMC student government structure that will be through to success." cording to Smith, "ffot only "puts Holly Ball.: securing firelocks for government Board of Governance. implemented by next Monday's "The board will bring the im­three people in the know instead of the hall. creating quiet study 
"Student government leaders Yoting. portant officers into more direct one." but also "divides duties into lounges. and more bicycle racks. act too often as if they were The new system will eliminate eontact with each other." she sid, concrete areas. When students As a long-term goal, Smith said reaching out to the students from the offices of student body "and by taking some of the work have proposals, it is now clearly she would like to see student 
on top." McKiernan stated in her president and vice-president and load from the chairman, it will defined who to go to." ·government relate more to 


McKiernan : 'unification' 
informal announcement in replace them with an Executive allow her the time to open new The Hall Life Commissioner acts st.udents. She would accomplish ' McCandless Hall. "This doesn't do Board. including the Chairman, lines of communication." as coordinator of the Hall Life this by improving means of any good at all. People in student the Student Affairs Commissioner. Commission. consisting of the four communication, expanding the government have to get off their and the Hall Life Commissioner. hall presidents and an off campus present student newletter, and 
Candidate announcements representative. She holds a seat on suggesting intrahall newsletters. on this page were placed in the Student Affairs Committee and "I think an involved and con­the Student Affairs Council, and cerned hall goverment can
random order.
'Potential-is there,' 
, will be responsible for all hall-• generate more student interest," functions. she concluded. 

Garrett 
Sophomore Joanne Garrett yesterday confirmed her can­didacy for Saint Mary's Student Affairs Commissioner, declaring that "Student potential is there, but someone just has to get it together." 
As Student Affairs Com­missioner. Garrett hopes to organize this potential and feels that the restructured government presents an ideal medium. 
"Responsibility now rests on three people. and this will get more back to the students," she believes. 
The Student Affairs Com­missioner chairs the Student Af­fairs Commission consisting of the four class presidents. She maintains seats on both the Student Assembly and the Student 
Dr. Cclnnon selects new RA's at Saint Mary's 
by Mike Welby 
Staff Reporter 

"They're just an outStanding group of people", said Dr. Alice Cannon of the 55 girls chosen to be R.A.'s at St. Mary's next year. 
Cannon, who is Vice President of Studetn Affairs at St. Mary's said she was quite pleased with the new 
R.A. program. Next year will be the second year St. Mary's has had R.A.'s. 
Previously, there were 36 Student Advisors who worked primarily with freshman. The new program allows for an R.A in every section (approximately one 
R .A. for every 25 girls l. 
"This lets the R.A. work within a peer group and takes things to a more personal level," Cannon added. 
Applications were accepted frQiff Sophomore and Junior girls af'ier individual interviews. Recom­mendations and grade-point averages were also taken into consideration. 
We were looking for wellroun­ded. outgoing girls with a wide range of personalities. We didn't ask that they be 4.0 students just that they be able to allot the time required without endangering their own studies," <;annon ex­plained. 
"The important thing is that they be good listeners. We have a orte week training program for the girls at the beginning of th,i! year and an ongoing training process throughout the year. We try to 


believes 
Affairs Council, and is responsible 
for any non-halla...ndnon-academic 
function. She. together with the 
Board of Governance Chairman. 
and Hall Life Commissioner 
('Onstitute the executive board. 
(~arrett explained her motive for running as simply "wanting to work for and with students." She added that she wants to sample student opinion before tackling any particular problems. 
"But one thing I'd especially like to see is more activity centered on this eampus." she said. 
Garrett's previous experience in :;tudent government includes membership in hall council, the IIall Life Commission, the task force on health, and public rdations work in Regina Hall. 
sensatize the R.A.'s to various student problems. Sometimes an 
R.A. will direct a given student through proper channels on a specific problem, but usually the problems are small ones and can be talked out." 
Cannon then added," The caliber of the students applying really restores my faith in human nature. 
Even though it makes the choices difficult." 
"Cream rises quickly to the top in milk, but richer cream may not be so easily noticed in other cream." she philosophized. 
Cannon is optimistic about R.A.'s in the future of St. Mary's. The program is excellent and "should improve each year." 
The only limitation or weakness she finds in the program is that they "might find some who overstep their competency." This however. she said, "is the ex­ception." 
COLLEGIATE NOTES 
Understnnd nil subjects, plays and novels foster! 
Thousnnds of topics availabl~ within ~8 hours of moiling Complete with bibliography and tootnotes Lowest Prices C~re GUARAN­TEED 
'SE!II-0 $1.90 lor our latest 
',1esuiptive Mail-Order Catalogue wilh Postage-Paid Order Forms too: 
COLLEGIATE RESEARCH 1 N. 13th St. Bldg. Rm 706 Phila. Pa. 19107 
HOT-LINE (215) 563-3758 
ASK FOR HEIDI 

Heidi stands tall 
•.. with a heel that rises to any occasion on a kicky platform sole. 
The Personality slated to be the super star on campu~ to show 
off with color-coordinated separates. 



Personalit)C 
Price Range $16 ·$20 
Personality Shoes Are Available at: Shoeland, US 31 No. & US 31 So., South Bend, La Porte and Portage, Ind. Paul's Shoe Store, 116 W. Plymouth, Bremen, Ind. Swearingens Shoe Store, 208 N. Michigan, Plymouth, Ind. 

the observer Monday. April 2, 1973 

A&l Student Advisory Council Report 
By Nl'il Hosini l'n·sidt•nl, i\&L Sludl'nl Advisory Council 
In an pffort to share the experiences of 
othPr universities and colleges with more 
lilwral grading procedures, the Arts and 
l.l'llt•rs Student Advisory Council contacted 
lwt•nly-four s<·hools last summer. Those 
answ1•ring included Vanderbilt, The 
llnivPrsily of Virginia, Amherst, Boston 
llnivPrsity. The University of Texas, 
1\rown. Cornell, Indiana University, The 
llniwrsity of Oregon, Princeton, Stanford, 
Till' University of Chicago, Boston College, 
Loyola, Tht• University of Michigan, 
I )aylon. Wayne Slate, and Yale. Although 
llarvard. The University of Pennsylvania, 
<'olurnhia. Williams, Antioch and Oberlin 
laih•d to rpspond, the information that was 
finally collected represents a wide range of 
sl'hools and philosophies. 
1\ll'mh<•rs of the Advisory Council initiated 
lhP study tht•msPIVl's to gather data ap­
pli<·ahiP to t'onsiderations of the Pass-Fail 
option and other grading procedures at 
Notre DamP. Their information led them to 
suggPst four changes in current grading 
pnlil'ies. These recommendations represent 
tlw opinion of the Arts and Letters Student 
Advisory Council and of course are binding 
upon no one, but the Council thought that 
administrators, faculty, and students alike 
should be made aware of them. 
The--Iull report covers twenty-six pages, 
hut the following is a summary of their 
<·onclusions and reasons behind them : 
I. Tlmt all courst>s be made available for all studl'nts on a (I) A, A-, B. B-. C. D, No Credit nasis m· <2) a Pass-No-Credit basis. 
Although the final report contains <'vidence both for and against changing the Pass-Fail to a liberalized Pass-No Credit eourse, the "pro's" out­
weighed the "cons". For instance at schools where pass grading procedures were most liberal <as at Stanford and Brown), the results were favorable; schools with more conservative grading approaches (such as Amherst and Boston U.) did not enjoy much success with the option. 
The fact that the option's use was more successful where it was more liberally applied sugggests as does other data in the report that when students are given proper responsibility for their own choice of grading procedure, they act responsibly and conti11ue to perform well. 
-Many students, enjoying the experience of receiving good letter grades, or realizing the importance of presenting graded transcripts to graduate and professional schools will still ·choose regular grades. Allowing students to take any course on a Pass-Fail basis puts the burden of choice where it properly belongs. 
Notre Dame's experience with the Pass-1-'ail option supports the view that present academic standards <as measured by the present grading system) could be main­tained under this more liberal approach. Statistics compiled by the Registrar show that 8 per cent of Arts and Letters students would have received the grade of A in their Pass-Fail and an impressive 66 percent would have received a B-or better. 5 percent of Business Administration students received the grade of A in their Pass-Fail courses, and 64 percent received grades B-or above. AJmosf three-quarters of Engineering students (72 per cent> received grades B-or above, while a full 75 per cent of Science students fell into this category <See Table I> Clearly, students are accepting the responsibility of 
;,,, •
~ 
lril 

,, t 
'" 
(r!l 
; .,. ~ I 
111111 I 
... 
; 
,,,, ( " '" 


I,,,., c;,,,,k f·,lrt~t•t/ /11 l'tt.~"·huf Cuunw:o~ 

in Pass-Fail courses than he does 
in most courses is not surprising. 

Some students even tended to perform better in their Pass-Fail courses than did fellow students taking all courses on a graded basis. The average grade awarded J<:ngineering students in the Pass-Fail t'ourses was a 2.871, while the average <:.P.A. of all other students in the college is only 2.861! 
AI the same time, however, students should not be expected to make the decision of choosing Pass-no credit courses without assistance. A mad rush at Brown for the Pa<-:!'-!'lo credit option during early days could have been avoided by proper coun­selling. As a recent Brown report points out, it is most important to inform students oflh<' risks involved in taking a large number of Pass-No Credit t·ourses. 
The replacement of the I<' grade with a No­Credit evaluation has much to recommend it. As many schools in this report agree, grades should not be used as punitive measures, but should reflect course per­formance. When• .a student's per­formance is inadequate, it seems logical to expunge all record of the course. The present system which would record an F and average 0.00 into the grade point average had a decidedly punitive effect: Professional schools, besieged with ap­plications, often consider quantifiable dimensions of applicants first (such as 
G.P.A. and standard test scores) and if these are not sufficiently high, the rest of the applications might never be examined. Some unfortunate experiences in one or two courses could depress a student's grade point average below this value, and destroy his chance for acceptance. 
Giving No-Credit for a non-passed course would help insure that a student's G.P.A. reflect his true ability. And this by no means would reduce a student's interest in performing well in a course: including the pleasures derived from learning, taking courses involves considerable time and expense. 
Also, failure to proceed toward graduation at a "proper rate" would have to result in academic probation (Stanford makes this stipulation). And as long as schools like Stanford and Brown are using the No-Credit grade instead of failure, it puts our graduates at a competitive disad­vantage in applying to law, medical, and graduate schools. 
There is no conceivable argument for perpetuating the "pressure cooker" at­mosphere that traditional grading procedures have tended to provide. Learning should be as pleasurable an ex­pPrience as possible. I f the world beyond 
graduation day happens to be a pressure 
l'Ookpr. that situation should be remedied as 
\\"Pll. hut lht'IT is no argument for self-abuse 
in prPparation for it. 

As our n•spondPnt at Boston University 
pointed out. grades are not certification of 
tlw goodrwss of a pPrson, and where the 
lt'ndency t•xists to treat them as such, 
rmwdial action should be taken. Grading 
should lw <'Valuative, not motivational. 
Al'adl•mie institutions must rely upon the 
profpssor. I he C'ourse materials, and 
al'adpmic atmosphere to motivate students 
to IParn. 

If tlw Pass-Fail option is irideed extended 
to aII courses for all students, it is apparent 
thai Notrl' Dame's present rationale for its 
use ! to encourage exploration in new 
academic areas) is inadequate. Many other 
schools have found as well as Notre Dame 
that a large number of students do not 
venture into the academic disciplines of 
foreign colleges, but tend to explore within 
their own college using the option as a 
"t·ushion." An excellent replacement 
rationale might be modeled afll·r the one 
t•mployed at Stanford: 

"The Pass option is intended to relieve the pressure on students for achievement in grades in order to enable them to con­centrate their energies more effectively on Iheir main course of study. The Pass option in no way implies less or different, course requirements than those required of students who elect evaluation o f their work in a given course in terms of the standard grading structure." 
2. That appropriate courses in fine arts, anhitecture and other areas difficult to t'\'alnate be made obligatory Pass-No Credit courses. 
It also seems advisable for Notre Dame to follow the example of other schools (such as Brown, the University of Oregon, and Princeton among others> in specifying that cer·taln fine arts and architectural courses be graded only on a Pass -No-credit basis because of the difficulty in assigning letter grades. 
:1. That course performance reports be madt' available to students for use in ap­lll·opr·iatt' courst's <the professor of any p;ll'ticular course will determine ap­propr·a iteness). 
The council's third recommendation refers to a procedure instituted at Brown to provide more detailed, analytical, and hence more valuable evaluations of a student's course performance than mere ·Jetter grades can. The Course Performance Report, as Brown calls it, is a professor's written description and criticism of a student's work. 
Students who elect to take a course on a Pass -No-credit basis may request their instructor to complete this report. The request must be made before mid-semester, and the instructor may decline if he believes he will have inadequate information. Copies are made available to the student, the Dean's Office, and the student's advisor. 
While not a part of the official record, these reports may be sent out of the university at the student's request, after he has first secured written permission of the instructor who wrote it. 
The criticism gained from such reports would be especially helpful at Notre Dame in 
courses involving fine arts or literature <less so in math or science), where absolute letter grades are not easily applied. Such reports are also convenient "letters of 
.,,_ 
/f,{J 
/'II 
"' -- 
- I ., - 
- - 
- - - - 
.I/---- --- ---- ---- ---- 
IIIII I :-II  ;li'l I Ill  : :!t -' !1~1 IIIII :'till c''""'' .\,·~: Uu"l!''  t!l 'fJ(/  I '~I Ill/  
Tuh/c• II  


recommendation" for students who don't get to know their teachers on a very in­timate basis, and find themselves in need of written evaluations of their energy and talent when senior year arrives and em­ployers and schools await them. 
If some professors do not assume the responsibility of careully composing these reports, that is to be expected. But if the course is small enough, the material is applicable and the student and professors are willing, the opportunity should be provided for a more valuable final evaluation of a student's course work. In addition, Notre Dame's highly-dedicated faculty should perform well. 
-1. That courst> "drops" be allowed until the last l'lass day without penalty and without 
I'('('OI'd. 
The same argument as was used for the Pass-No Credit option holds for alowing a student to drop a course before the last class day <as it is done at Stanford) instead of restricting his decision to the first week of classes. Oftentimes a learning experience proves to be less valuable as the semester passes than was initially hoped. 
To force students to continue in a course they intensely dislike, or in which they find themselves unqualified, seems most un­fortunate for the student, the professor and the class involved. Also, if a No-credit grade is awarded for failing to pass, it would seem siiiy to force a student to strive for a non-passing evaluation so that the course might be expunged from his record. 
3.0 
.:'.5 
I .> I tl 

:\\\'I'd~·· :\ \'t'rtt~t' 
l'nin•rsit.\· 
(;,·adt• Rt't't'icd 
G I' A. 
iTI P-F courst• rahll' 111 
tSprill~. 197:!! 

performing well in-these r----------------------------------------------------, courses. and are not simply settling for barely-passing grades. 
In addition, it is significant that according to the Registrar, the 

White Sox Opening Day Trip 
G.P.A. distribution of students choosing to take courses on a Pass­Fail basis bulges around the 3.000­3.3999 range. <see table Ill 
Tuesday April 10 
Therefore, the fact that many students seem to be earning grades only slightly below the average grade in their G.P.A. The difference 
$1 0 Payment Must be Made This Week
between the average Pass-Fail grade of all students taking all courses was 2.598 while the 

Monday -Friday 12 -5
University over-all average G.P.A. JS 2.924 -only a difference of .326. <see table III> 
This difference becomes even less 

Ticket Office -2nd Floor La Fortune
significant when one considers that most students would tend to use the
' 
option with courses in which they 
A Few Reservations Still Being Taken.
r 
r e"pect to receive a grade below their present grade point average. That is, if a student expe<"ted to receive a higher grade in a course, he would For more information call: Leo Breen -418 Morrissey -3651 
most likely take the course for a grade to raise hia average -and not 

Tony Linas • 3648 
oo a Paaa-Fail basis. That the 
~e~~t~onns.~wone~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------J 
Monday, April 2, 1973 
the observer 
5 


The triumphant return of the Beach Boys was everything and more as the Boys thrilled an enthusiastic audienceat lh£'ACC last Saturday evening. It was my third time seeing them live and they certainly haven't ceased to satisfy me, or, for that matter, anyone else who was there. 
The first set was excellent. It consisted of a lot of their best oldies and couple of Ih£'ir better new ones. 
The group opened with "Sloop John B" <still one of my alltime favorites) with Mike Love dancing around in a white suit and D£'nnis Wilson singing with his fingers in his ears. as usual. Their next two, "Darlin" and "Do it Again" were as fine as ever. They did another from Holland, "Sail on Sailor." and a soulful "Heroes and villains," with AI Jardine laughing through the last verse. 
It's pretty hard to find a high point at that 
concert. but the last three songs of the first 
set were stunning. It was quite unexpected 
to hear "Caroline No", which was simply 
exquisite featuring Carl Wilson on vocal and 
some nice flute by Rickie Fataat. The next 
one. according to Dennis, was so old " ...the 
dust from Mike's beard falls off," but it was 
a pure pleasure to hear "Don't Worry 
Baby." The set closed with another very 
popular oldie, "Surfin' USA", which left the 
audience in a frenzy. 
After some frisby madness during in­
termission, the Beach Boys opened their 
second set witli'l\larcella."their best song 
from Carl and the Passions and a segment 

art ferranti 

Exct'pl for two shining. although sen­tinwntal highlights. this week's films pn•sl•nt lackluster entertainment. Tonight, .Jack Alllt'rtson plays in his Oscar winning rolt• as an angry and frustrated father of rl'lurning WW ll \'eteran <Martin Sheenl. .\lll('rlson \\'em a Tony for the same role on Broadway and the movie Tht' Subjt'd Was Hust•s as a play won the Pulitzer Prize for playwright Frank Gilroy. Patricia !\t'al turns in another of her sterling per­formam't'S as Albertson's wife. The movie is a goorl lwt at nine on 16. 
Tomorrow CBS recasts,\ War o£ ('hildrt>n. a pm\·(•rful made-for-TV film in Northern I rPland about an Irish girl IJenny Agutterl '' ho Ia lis in love with a British soldil'r John Honarwl anrl thPimplications lrom it. She gets tar-and-fealht'red and he gets... well. tum• in and rind out. The film is a forceful polt•mic against an insant' war. It follows .. llawaii Fi\'t'·O" at 9:30 122>. 
pnn• smalt1 

l'un• snwltz flows out with ABC dredging up lht' original Farmt•r's lhlllghtt>r. the 1947 filtn that copp£'d an Oscar for actress I .ort>tla Young 1Katrin Holstrom l. Joseph < 'otlnn ph1~·s ('nngrcssman Glenn Morley with Etlwl Barrymnrl' as his Mom. It is a ('Uti· conwrlY·drama which. as evervone knows. ht•t·aint• a succl'ssful series with the !all• lngt'r Stl•\'t'ns as lht' Swt'dish maid and \\ illiam \\'inrlom as tht' congressman. The \\ t•dding lwlls 1wal at t>ight on 211. 
"a.lt·rlin,.: on Saturrlay at nine on W!\:Dl! 
lfi has Omar Shariff ca\'orting with 



a triumphant return 
from the "California Saga" entitled simply ··california." I'm finally getting to ap­preciate that song in particular off of llolland and I realize that perhaps I was a bit too harsh and hasty on that particular record review. After "California," which featured the multi-talented drummer Fataat on pedal steel and Jardine on banjo, they did another Hollander. "Leaving This Town." which still doesn't get to met, yet. The oldies returned with "Help Me Rhonda" which consisted of Dennis on raunchy vocal and Billy Hinsche, of dino, 
Desi, and Billy fame, playing piano. 

The group followed with "Let the Wind Blow" (a concert regular), "Wouldn't It Be Nice", "Wild Honey", featuring a good vocal and guitar solo by Blondie Chaplin, and their audience participation thingas wt'll as their biggest hit, "Good Vibrations." 
I'IH'OI't'S 

It didn't take them too long to return to the 
stage with their usual encore of "I Get 
Around," "Fun, Fun, Fun," and "Jumpin' 
Jack Flash." At that point, I departed for 
the dressing room, quite certain that the 
concert was over. However, the Convo 
audience exhibited much more faith and 
persistance than myself, when after about 
ten minutes of solid cheering and applause, 
the Beach Boys returned with "California 
Girls" and "Barbara Ann." 

The only disappointing aspect of the 
concert was the absence of all of the 
Surf's l'p songs. This was due to the 
Lit:t:le Bir:J Screen 

l'alhe1·im• Dt•nt'uve in a jumbled plot. llo\n•n•r.tlwn•justmightbeafewwhowill Pnjo~· it. (;ning from the sublime to the ;rhsurd. NBC treats us <torture is a better 'Prh 1 to Lurll Lun· a lhll'k with Tuesday 
Wl'ld. Boddy l\1cDowell. and Lola Albright :thout ll•t•nagl' morals. The film was made in I!~~iii and is about as intriguing as ('ollt>gt' <·unfillt•ntial an horrendous film starring Sll'\'t' ,\!len which anyone who has seen the s(•n•n-hour moYie marathon presented on thl' campus tlw last few years would n·nwmht'r. llmn·n•r. \H' see again that. unlikl' Haqul'l Wdsh. Miss Weld can act. The duck quacks at Pight tomorrow on 16. 
Tonight. playing opposite Tlw Subjt>l'l was 
llost•s .\ B(' n·runs .\ Lun•h \\av to Dit> with 
1\irk llouglas as a hodyguar·d trying lo 
pron· S~·h·ia Koscina innocent of murder. 
IO:Ii \\';tllach plays a prosecutor and is the 
onl~· rpason worth watching in this one. At 
llirw oil :.'H. il is a horrihlt• way to make a 
llto\·il' or waste two hours. Dun'l :\lakt' 
\\a'~'" is hast'd on a hook callt'd \Iusdt' 
t:l'ad• and stars Ton\' Curtis and Claudia 
< ':1rdillalc. <>n :!2 Th.rusda~· at nine. rlon 'I 
tww in 

Tht· ~nutlwrn Slar has (;l'orge St•gal and t rsul;t ,\lldrt•ss in Africa in 1912 looking fr )t'\\t'ls Hast'd oil a .Juh•s BPrnl' tale. Orson \\ t'lll•s turns in a rwat lit lit' 1wrformance tlt·spitt· its deing too small for his \·ast l;rlt•llls. Tlw safari hegins at nine on :.!2 l:rida\· Yul Hrnuwr and Tn•\·or Howard "tar i;t a poor \\:(•stern on 11w :\B(' Sunday '\ighl :\lo\"it' l'lllitlt'd Tht•l.nn,.: Dut•l. It is an t•rulurann· ll•st for tlw \'it'Wl'r to las! through !his tliH' hoarseness of Carl's voice, I later learned. It was also unfortunate that Jardine had to carry some of Brian Wilson's vocals, although he handled "Wouldn't It Be Nice" commendably. 
mikt• Ion• 

I got to talk to Mike Love, who had the appearance of Santa Claus, with his long thinning hair and beard and with a number of children flocked around him. Mike, who likes to be referred to as a "teacher of Iranscendental meditation," made me promise to invite everyone to a lecture­demonstration on April 11 at 7:30 P.M. at either the So. Bend Public Library or on 
pat small 
campus--more on that later. 
1 also spoke with Jack Rieley, their lyricist-manager. Among other things he said that Brain Wilson is singing less now because he considers himself more of a producer and because he wants the goup to sound more exact live; that he (Jack) thinks the Holland is their best album; and that the Beach Boys don't tire of playing their oldies because it'sso mucha part of them. Based on these three statements, Idon't expect any spectacular new albums (although I'm hoping for some), but if their performance last Saturday night is indicative of their future, then they'll be around for a long time. 



I




lackluster entertainment I 
Tht• final film of the Wl'<'k is Family Flight a n·run madl•-for-TV flick which has Rod T;t~·lor and Dina Mt'rrill as a married couple '' ho crash land in their small plane in Baja 1·taifornia. Taylor dashes with his son pla~·t'd h~· Kristoffer Tabori and ends up t.:l'lling slit't'd by tht' plane's prop. The end t'limaxps with an abortive attempt by the non pilot son to land on an aircraft carrier ;r nd tlwn splashing down into the sea. Take­olf at H::\llon :!1\ hut 1 rt'comnwnd passing it I>\ 
Tht're ;trt• two notabll' specials this Wt'ek. Fnr thl' fans of lhl' fiflit's. Jo:l\'is PrPsley at 1::::0 on lfi \\.(•drwsday pn'st'nts his concert I rom llawaii. Ill' sings his obligatory n•pPrloin· of oldit' hils plus a hatch of new ortt•s including a sl'rit'S of patriotic songs. \inl'l\' minutes later at It'll on lli Ann \l;trgi·et stars in ht•I: first spl'cial sincP her :1ccidt'nt lt•n \H'l'ks ago. (;eorge Burns and 1\oh llope join in on tlw spt•cial made up of llt'f' Las \'t'gas shows. Tht'I'l' is t'\'t'n a film dip of ht'r with John \\'aym• in his picture Tht· Train Bnhlwrs. Slw sings and dancl'S ;11td n•asslll'l's tht• public that sht' is hack ;1nd in lop form. 
t·ann·laliuns 
LllltTI;Jiinns: ('BS has officially can­
•·t·llt'd "Tlw Hill ('osb\· Show." !\lission: lmpossihh· after I ~·par~ ... "[)oris Day aftpr •\t'ars... and "Bridgl't l.on•s lkrnie". Tht• L1sl "how's t·anct'lation is a surprist•. Tht• lo\\t·st rank tlw shm\ has hit was \:\in tlw '\rdstllt H:1tings hut although ('BS dt•nit•s it. J>rt·ssun• infhrt•nt't'd hy ntrious .lt'wish 
j j 
I 
I I 
I I I 
groups outragt'd by tht' intermarriagt' of a 

I
1·;llholit· rich Irish girl to a poor taxi dri\'er .lt·wish 111;111 appears to bt' the true l'aUS<'. It a ppPa rs I hat t lw gound t•ut b\· ..All In Tlw 

l 
1.-amil~·" ,,·as not so det'p aftc•r all. I 
ThP fin• Ill'\\' shows for CBS an• "Tht• :'\l'\1' I .\dn·nlun•s of PerT\' l\1 a son .. t which has Yet to ht• cast 1. "lla\\·kins on l\lurder" from the T\' rno,·it• starring .James Slt'\l'arl 1 in a part pt'rf<•t·t for him I tis a small town lawyt'r. 
I 
Till' last dramatic serit's l'OilH'S from 1ht' greatrn;rdl•for-1'\' film based on fact t·ntitlt·tl 

I 
Tht• :\tan·us·'l'lsnn \hrnlt•rs and is entitled I ..,'ojal'k" starring TPily Sa\·alas as the :'\t•w '111rk dt'leclin•. "CalutTi's lkpartnwnt·· is ;1 t'OIII('(I\' starring .Janws Coco as tht• ,·ht'f 
l 
111 ;111 tllt;•mplo~·nwnt agt'nc~·. "Boll 1ltll' .. 1s ;rhoultlw lkd Ball 1-:'lll't•ss. tlw 1.000 mill' '-llppl~ lirw to <;en. Patton in WW II. This ;rtln·ntun•t•onwd~· in tlw "":\J.:\-S-11" ,.l'in -t;rrs ~111 <;i!Iiam and llill\ !licks. 
\ ~;dult• In .lnhn Fnnl ;~irs tonight on:!:! at ~1·:w for ~Ill minutl's highlighting the cart'l'r of lhl' grPst \\'l'StPrn din•t·tor. lloll\'wood's lwst is on hand and film dips art• sctwrlull'rl. 
Tri\ ia 1/nt'sliun: :\likl• llt'\·lin supplil'd !his \\t't'k·s lri,·i;t qta•stions They are I ' !In\\ l'Omt' Tlwodon• <'lt'a\Tr \\ ;ts lllt'kn:tnwd Hl•;t \·t'r. and :.! •!tow t·onw Lukl's 11 lit• in "TIH• llt·al :\k<'o~··s .. was nicknamt'd 
., LJSSl(' .... 
.lh~l'l\ .l.l.j 
P.lJil!.l l!d pur:.r~) Wlll q.llllll th II P•' '"I jlli;· .l!SSI:lfl)(t:.), llltMJ p.W.l jSOd 1: jhl.\l.l.HI .11(...; • ·J,J.\t!.JH lJ)I.\\ !In ·lllll:.l ~IIOIP:!.lllllllll.ld~l .• JI!J,l.\,)S J,Jijt: JllW .uopO.HJ.J. .l.llllltllltl.ld 111.1 PJnO.l .\((l:.\\11 'liOIJ~.lll(l t:l.\l.l.f. "I .1.1\\~11\ 



the observer Monday, April 2, 1973
6 

Rep.Griffiths: ERA will endsexdiscrimination 
by Tt'rry Kt'eney was passed permitting all persons Starr Rl'porler the right to vote, why did we have 
Congresswoman Martha Grif­to have a 19th amendment allowing fiths of Michigan urged the Indiana women to vote. Fifty years ago, state legislature to ratify the Equal women thought if they had the Hights amendment to the U.S. right to vote, they could acquire all Constitution. Speaking before an Ihe others." informal gathering in the Library In emphasizing that under the Lounge Saturday morning, !<:qual Rights amendment women <~riffiths argued that the passage would be judged "as individuals, of I he Amendment would and not as a class,"' Griffiths ~uarantee "equality of rights provided numerous examples of under the law" regardless of sex. sex discrimination by govern­
Congresswoman Griffiths ment: pointed out that at the present time --Women are generally paid less the Constitution does not provide lhan men for the same jobs, yet (•qual rights for women. lht>y pay the same amount as men 
''If lhe Constitution really did in Social Security. apply lo women," argued Grif­--Under Social Security a fiths." when the 15th amendment woman's husband cannot draw on 

Securityreports crash, rules lor use of lake 
by Rrucf' Petrovick area. Starr Reporter 5. Glass bottles will not be per­
A l"ar driven by a student milled on the beach; paper cups skidded off the road in front of the will be provided at the beach Old College and collided broadside house. with a tree at 3:43a.m. Thursday. ti. Pets are absolutely forbidden The student was treated for anywhere in the beach area. 
7. Lifeguards are on duty frommull iplc lacerations of the face 
and head and released from St. 12:00 noon to 8:00 p.m. daily. 
Swimming is permitted only.Joseph's Hospital. 
during these hours. Lifeguards areWith the prospect of warm in charge of the beach area whileweather Security Director Arthur on duty. Compliance with theirPears detailed the rules for the use 
of Sl. Joseph's Lake: instructions is required at all I imes. Lifeguards have the
1. Those eligible to use the St. 
authority lo request a person who.Joseph Lake beach will be is not conducting himself properly 
required to register at the Security Office. Upon payment of $1 lo leave the beach. registration fee, an identification 8. Digging holes in the sand of the 
tag will be issued allowing ad­artificial beach is not permitted. mittance to the beach area. 
\1. Inflatable devices are not Students are exempt from the $1 permitted in the water. 
Presently all water activities are
ft>e. 
2. Persons under the age of 12 will rt>stricted to St. Joseph's Lake 
not be permitted to use the beach beach only. The only boats allowed unless with their parents. Children on Ihe lake are those of the Sailing under 12 must be accompanied by Club. A newly formed Canoe Club 
their parents. is in the process of obtaining the :l. !<'ires, food or alcoholic approval of the Dean of Students beverages will not be permitted at for a similar privilege. Scuba 
the beach. diving is permitted with the per­.J. Vehicles will not be permitted mission of the Security Dept. as on Ihe beach at any time. Bicycles long as there. are.scout divers and must be kept off the path in posted one stays up to look for the other. 
SOPHOMORES. 

SPEND your Junior Year in NEW YORK-at N.Y.U. EARN a great experienceAND degree credit. 
When you're in New York City, you're where it's at and where they are. Leonard Bernstein. Willie Mays. The splendid new Velazquez at the Metropolitan. Margaret Mead. The Brooklyn Bridge. Clive Barnes. Washington Square and The Village. Andy Warhol. Jones Beach. Eugene McCarthy. Joe Namath. Joan Sutherland. Peoples, foods, cultures from all over this earth of ours. 
Washington Square College of Arts and Science at New York University invites you to experience the cosmo­politan uniqueness of this great city. If the dean of your college approves, you can study and live here for your entire junior year. Whatever your field. Pre-med, pre­dentistry, pre-law. Math. Journalism. Psych. The full liberal arts spectrum. Or education, business, and the arts. 
After your year as a New Yorker, you'JI return to your own college to complete your degree-a degree with a year's enrichment that is now available here for you. 
For details, mail the coupon below. 

Director, Junior Year in New York Washington Square College of Arts 
and Science New York University 906 Main Building Washington Square 
New York, N.Y. 10003 
Please sead me complete information about the Junior Year in New York program. Name:__________________________________ 
AddresS-----------------­City__________State___.~...zip·--­Telephone:________________ 

her Social Security benefits. In his wife or a woman supports her lhe !<:qual Hights Amendmentaddition. although a widow can husband not by any law. but out of would in no way usurp the rights of draw on her husband's pension, a· love." 
lhe slates. In pointing out that-thewidower has no right to collect on. In noting that the Equal Rights wording of Section 2 was perfectlyhis wife's pension. · Amendment is opposed by such normal. Congresswoman Griffiths--Social Security discrini.inates "strange bedfellows" the:as ·!'ailed for a joint federal -stateagainst the unmarried by charging: rommunist Party, the Ku Klux: !'ffort lo attain equal rights. 

higher premiums for single per-: Klan. and the John Birch Society,: "I hope lo see the day," said sons than married persons. {;riffiths minimized the supposed: (;riffiths. "when a woman stands
disadvantages of the Amendment.: 
before the Supreme Court, and the 

--Women are generally im­"Congress and the Presiden( Cou~t looks down at her and says, prisoned for a longer period of time. would never have passed any 'Shes human. The Constitution
than men even for committing the aml'ndment that would harm the 
protects 
her'."l'Xact same crime. In fact women American family in any way" she eonvicts are often given no time for reasoned. ~ood behavior as their male Congresswoman Griffiths 
eounterparts are. predicted that the Amendment,
The Congrt>sswoman contended which has already been ratified by Ihat Ihe purpose of the Equal· :m stales. will obtain the support of Hights Amendment is still I he :!7 states needed for ratification misunderstood by many before the t>nd of the year or the 
Americans. especially women. beginning of next year.She speculated that part of the..­Tht> talk was marked by the problem could be the very name of appearance of State Senator lht> amendment. Burnie Bauer of SQuth Bend. 
"If we called this the An­Sl•nator Bauer. who along with his ti-discrimination Against Women !"olleagues in the State Senate are by Government Amendment, then seheduled to consider the Equalthere would be no problem." Highls Amt>ndment this week, took 
She pointed out that the issue with Griffiths on the issue of 
Griffiths: Women should be judged

Amendment has nothing to do with lhe enforcement of the Amend­
as individuals. and not as a class.

forcing women to help support nwnt. 
(staff photo by Mike Budd)

their families. "A man supports Griffiths reassured Bauer that 
TURN THOSE USELESS SKILLS INTO HAND50ME BUDWEISER® PATCHES 
For example, if you can hug cans pretty good, you can wear a Budweiser World Champion Patch. Just hug, next to your person, a record bunch of empty Bud• cans. Record to beat is 38. 
BUDWEISER WORLD CHAMPIONSHIPS? WHAT'S GOING ON? 
Oh, happy day. At last someone is doing something positive about the current world shortage of champions. 
Budweiser is sanctioning five absurd events in which college youths can set records and earn wonderful, big Budweiser patches 
(7"x6", washable, genuine colors). 
Besides the breathtaking BUD.,CAN HUG (Maybe you've detected that above, there are four other ways to be a World this is not an official, rigid-rules Champion. Get details at your favorite beer "contest." But it is a lot of fun, store where you see the "Budweiser World even if you can't break the 
Championship" display! records. You can, though, can't you?)
Do one, be11t the record, tell us about it on a postcard and get your marker pen ready for inscribing your particular specialty beneath where it says "World Champion." 
TO GET YOUR BUDWEISER WORlD CHAMPION PATCH (EVEN IF YOU DON'T SET A RECORD), JUST WRITE YOUR NAME, ADDRESS AND WHAT YOU DID ON A POSTCARD. 
NO 'IOOf Of 'UICHASE IEQUIIED. Offfl VOID WHEIE 'IOHIIITED IY lAW. AllOW fOUl WEEKS fOI DEUVEIY. Off£1 fX"IES DECEMIEI ll. 1973. 
ANH[USER·BUSCH. INC • ST. LOUIS 
Monday, April 2, 1973 the observer 

Class office election slated 
FOR SALE PRE·LAW SOCIETY . Five prominent local attorneys will
b~· .John Culligan 
(For SilleJ 67 Jaguar XK·E. cliscuss their practices and an·
St<1ff Hl'portt>J' 
~o.1dster} extremely low( mileage. rW<'r questions about the legal , mf'chanically perfect, Call 234-profession at 7:30 P.M. on 
The following is a list of those 

t\455 Thursday night, April 5, 1973, at
The candidates for the junior and 
IIJC Library Auditorium.Refresh­
students running for senior class

s(•nior dass officers have been 
For s,,le-Acoustic 134 am·p. m<'nts will be served in the
officers. They are : (listed a-

announced. 
Casino concert P.A. system . Best Library Lounge following the 
1 lphabetically) 

<lifer, .<lfter 7 . 234-4547 >1weting. <'king till' office of senior class 
Tlwre arl' five candidates se­
President Vice President St•cretilry fr0asurcr 
1971 350 Honda 5L... 5600 miles MARKETING CLUB MEM­
presid(•nt. four of them running on 
cus,tom paint Jack 8550 BERS! Vote Don Foiorentino
romplt•te tickets. The junior class 
M. Coccimiglio running illone R. Gt'iSt no trcilsurer 
Pres Tues and Wed. 

B. Hilmpton R. SlypUiil c. Kirby K. W,liSh 
For Sale: Pilnasonic Am-Fm
Pl(•ctions have two students runn­
K. H,,rnish G. Girolilmi M. T. D<'vitt S. Hornig 
rilssette st~reo and 2 allied IIF YOU DON't LIKE WRBR'S
ing for the office of president. 
G. Si!milniego C. Stevens M. Proesel J. R<'V nolds 
~peilkers. $150 Bill 3336 NEW TOP 'ItO FORMAT AND
('ampaigning for these offices 
S. s,,llace J. Tvlwillk 
WOUj__D! LIKE THEM TO 

lwgins Monday morning at 8:00 
PERSONAL RESUME A PROGRESSICE ROCK FORMA~ SEND LE~ Oilvid, I'm sorry M ...Mary TERS OR PETITIONS TO THE 
a.m. and continues until midnight 
on Wednesday. The voting will 
STATION MANAGER AND
There are two tickets· running for 

takt• place on Thursday from 11:30 
FOR RENT PROGRAM DIRECTOR OR
the junior class offices. They are: 
CALL THEM AT 234­

a.m. to l:llO p.m. and from 4:00 
(listed alphabetically) 

W.1nt privacy? Rooms $40 233-1329 1111DUR1NG AUSINESS
p.m. to li:nn p.m. 
HOURS.,

Tlw votes will be tallied by the 
Kitchenette ilpt. for one Utilities
President Vice President St•cretilry

election committee with each 
lurnished. Close campus 272-6174 ·WANTED 
tieket or candidate having at least 
G. Ericksen T. Slrachota B. R<'inke ·H. Bigham 
LOST AND FOUND Volunteers Wanted . Swimming
mw representative present to ins­
J. Burda B. Sp,lnn
T. Nt'UVille J. Milewski 
instr·uctors needed for week of

pect the voting. 
Lost Spanish Text and looseleaf April 2-6 Clilsses will be held from notebook at Circle B-Ball rally. 8-12 Cilch morning lor grade C' illl John 3630 <chool children at the YMCA, 1201 N<'rthside Blvd. Contact Bro. Hitchhiker lost" camera lens in a Lluis Hurcik at the Rockne Pool, 
R<'d Voikswagon ilfter being 6321 , lor further information.



SRO crowd receives Brooks 
picked up by students on Douglas 
Hcilding North 272-4424 Observer needs ilSSI. ad, 
"'"'1"ger. Excellent position for
Picasso," "Aloneness," "Malcolm

by Bill Sabin 
Found: Mail Key (203) and spouse of Grad. student or Under
X" and "The Riot." She in­

Staff Reporter 
Room Key (201) in Rm 101 Old -Grad. Must be able to work 10-5
terrupted "this program of adult 

f1usiness Bid. Thursday Af· Mon Fri. Typing required. Good
"Poetry is life distH'led, and I 
l<'rnoon Call 8889 ~iily. Call 7471 or visit Observer
poetry" to read her recently

shall not distill for you," said 
office
completed children's book, The 

Lost at concert: brown Shoulder
Pulitzer prize-winning poetess 
bat~. Reward. Terrv 8001
Tigt>l' Who Wore White Gloves.

Gwendolyn Brooks as a preface to 
ND Juniors need .3 or 4 
The readings represented a full 
housemates for Large, furnished

a poetry reading yesterday af­
Lost in SMC darkroom: SMC rlng·; 
otl-cilmpus house. For info. Call:
range of Brooks' poetry, which has 

class of '74, initials MCG. Please
ternoon to ·a standing-room-only 
John or Tom 281-6010

call 5166 or 8661.
moved from the relatively simple 

crowd in the Library Auditorium. 
and balanced structure (as in "The 
One person needed to share

The reading was the opening 
NOTICES
Ballad of Pearly May Lee") to 
.lpilrtment for next year. Call

event to the seventh Sophomore 
Pilul or Jerry 1488

compact and flowing free verse (as 
Sox Trip Pi!yment and reser­
Literary Festival, and was 
viltions: 12:00 5:00, Monday­
in "Malcolm X").

received warmly by the crowd. Roommate Wililted: For off·
Fi'iday, Ticket Office. 2nd floor 
Brooks' "distillations" have, She alluded to this transition in LilFortune c,1mpus. Must have a good head. an explanation of why, in these C.lll Bernie 1246
over the years, developed from an 
times, she no longer feels she can Girl student will be Mother's
emphasis upon the attitudes of a 
Tvpist needed ill the Observer.

HPiper lor family with ill least 1
write sonnets: "This is not a

black woman in particular to ideas child. Will be observing child for $1.25 per hour. Call 7471
sonnet time, but a free verse time,

about the black people in general. course work 4873
\'('I'S(' and Jlll('l'!'llll('SS.
a time of ragged verse and NPed ride to Ohio Turnpike, Exi. ·
She said she prefers the word 
unevenness." (staff photo by Mike Budd) p,,rt Tirne Jobs available now and 6, Friday, April 6. Share ex·
"black" to "Negro" because pf'nses. Ciltl Jeanne 6991
through the summer as waiters"black is a large and inclusive issue staff Pictureman..Jerome Phillips .md cocktail waitresses at the word that pulls everybody in." Night Editor..Marlene Zloza Typists..Diane Chermside, Steve Roper, f1o,,r's Head. Apply in person L<'aving for summer? Want to Dennis Anastasoff , .. ~twt!en 2pm-5pm. '"b·let or have home occupied. 
. Her readings included: Ass't. Night Editor.-Chris Sullivan 
M,,rried couple need a roof til mid

Night Controller..David Rust
Day Editor..Mary Janca Riders needed: East to Penn. on
"Mother," "Ballad of Pearl May .tulv John 1035 Pam 5405
Happy Birthday T.C.
Copy Editors..Ed Ellis, Mike O'Hare _ April 6. Call 4625.
Lee," "We Real Cool," "Chicago 
CAC Presents 
SOPHOMORE LITERARY FESTIVAL 
MONDAY, APRil: 2 STANLEY ELKIN: READING FROM HIS FICTION 
8:00 pm LIBRARY AUDITORIUM TUESDAY, APRIL 3 STANLEY ELKIN: LECTURE "Literature and the Heart Attack" 3:30pm LIBRARY AUDITORIUM CHAIM POTOK: LECTURE "Rebellion and Authority: The Jew and Modern Literature" 8:00pm LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 4 JOHN ASHBERY: READING FROM HIS POETRY 
3:30 pm LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 

KENNETH REXROTH: READING FROM HIS POETRY 8:00pm LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 
THURSDAY, APRIL ) 
POETRYSYMPOSIUM: JER,6ME ROTHENBERG, KENNETH REXROTH, AND JOHN ASHBERY DISCUSS POETRY 
1:00 pm LIBRARY LOUNGE 
JEROME ROTHENBERG: READING FROM HIS POETRY 3:30pm LIBRARY AUDI"tORIUM 
ARTHUR MILLER: READING FROM HIS WORK 8:00pm WASHINGTON HALL 
FRIDAY, APRIL 6 
JEROME ROTHENBERG: WORKSHOP ON ETHNOPOETICS TRANSLATIONS OF ORAL POETRY 3:30pm LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 
ARTHUR MILLER: "AN INFORMAL EVENING WITH ARTHUR MILLER" 8:00pm LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 
ADMISSION TO ALL EVENTS IS FREE 
NOTE: Freshmen interested in the chairmanship of the '74 Festival contact Frank Barrett (3578) 
•.. 
the observer Monday, April 2, 1973 




Ara's gridders stymied by rain 
The Notre, Dame football team (•ndt•d its 1!172 season on a losing noll'. hut undl'r clear. balmy 1\llami ,Kil's. Saturday the Irish w•·rt• slated to begin training for llw l\l7:1campaign with a full-dress workout on Cartier f'ield, but rain ami lwavy overcast caused ND l'oach Ara Parseghian to balk at llw prospl'cl of outdoor practice, ,IJld finally forced him to scrub the 
l'Ssion allogether, in favor of team ··onfl'rl'nces and organizational lllPdings. 
Salurday's washout left the Irish with 25 opt•n dates into which lht•y must fit 20 days of spring practice. and Parseghian would prPfer lo get the bulk of his practicl' timl' in before the Easter hrPak. 
Thl' calendar, without allowing for further weather post­ponPmPnts, li~ts 14 practice dates hpforl' the ,·acation and then ;nwthPr six afterwards, with ~pring practice to be concluded on \lay rith with the annual Blue-Gold t:anw. Wt•ather permitting, l'arseghian will schedule six practicPs a wt'ek before the break, ;1ncl will allow the team days off during the final weeks of spring \\'or kouts. 
Parseghian, who is beginning his IPnlh season at the helm of the ND ~rid squad, has a veteran team with which to work during the coming spring and fall, and his rostl'r will eventually be swelled by the return of several players-­(iary Diminick, Steve Quehl, and Stl've Niehaus--who are still tl'chnically on the injured list. Also rejoining the Irish this season will be the Parker brothers, Mike (a ctefpnsive back l and Larry (a tailback l, who were suspended last yPar for disciplinary reasons. 
But despite his injury list,..!md c!Pspite several hard-to-replace graduation losses, the Irish head coach has pieced together his depth chart for the uf)coming workouts. 
Offensively, Parseghian listed Willie Townsend and Pete Dem­m<'rle as his first-line wide receivers, co-captain Dave Casper and Steve Sylvester at tackle, G<'rry DiNardo and co-captain Frank Pomarico at guard, and Joe Alvarado and Mark Brenneman at center. 
The number one backfield in­cludes Tom Clements and Cliff Brown at quarterback; Wayne Bullock at fullback; and Eric Penick, Art Best, and AI Samuels 

Haskl'lhall fans in Notre Dnme's class of '73 have s(•t•n soml' of the greatest moments in Irish cage ilislorv and som(• of the worst. 
Tlw~· \l';llched with pride ns Notre Dame handed ll<'L:\ its last defeat, 89-82 in the ACC on January 23, 1!111. :1ml sufferl'd when Indiana thrashed the Irish, !1.1·:.!!1. in [)pc(•mhl'r of that year. 
TilPy eh('(•rl'd Notre Dame to three post-season tournanwnts in the last four years, and still cheered 11 hl'n the Irish stumbled to a 6-20 record in the only non tounwy campaign. 
Tlw~· rl'nwmber when .Johnny Dee left Notre Dame ;1fter lhP '70-'71 senson. leaving behind a string of thn•p straight NCAA invitations but little else. And thp~· l'asil~· n'('illl when Dick "Digger" Phelps, who 
•·slahlislwd himself as one of the college basketball's hrilli;Jnt young men at f'ordham. replaced Dee and, ;1ft('r a dismal first year. guided four :::.ophomores and <I junior to within. a second of the NIT championsiup. 
Hut throughout the high and low spots of the last lour ~( ars has been one consistency factor. Irish haskdhall fans have nlways been treated to top­l'lilwr pPrfornwrs. including perhaps one of the grl'atPsl players in the history of the college game, :\ustin <'arr. 
'1\rict• on All-American and Notre Dame's all-time IPacting S('Or<'r. Carr rates as the number one man on Tlw Irish E.n•'s "All-Star Five" of the past four \Pars..Joining Carr on the squad are his classmate anct ft'llow Washington, D. C., resident, Collis Jones, and thrl'e members of the current Irish team, John Shumat<•. (;ary Brokaw and Gary Novak. 
Till' quiet. unassuming, yet tremendously talented <'arr was namt•d college b~sketball's Playet of the Y(•ar after a senior season in which he scored 1,101 points and shot over 54 percent from the field, despite ('Onstant attention from opposing defenders. 
Carr il{'hieved "star" status as a freshman, when he scored :15.0 ppg 1an Irish frosh record l. 
An ankiP injury curtailed Carr's playing time during his first varsity season but. while in the lineup, lw S{'ored :153 points in 16 games ·and helped the Irish to a 20-7 record and their first NCAA tourney ap­Jwanmce in four years. 
1-:le(·ted captain as a junior, Carr did everything thai season. scoring a Notre Dame record 1106 pints in 29 games. including an NCAA tournament record of Iii in a 1\lideast Regional first round victory over Ohio llniversity. 
Sinking 444 of 799 shots from the floor, Carr's ph(•noml'nal field goal percentage of .555 set another Irish mark. as did his 38.1 ppg scoring average. His :i5-point output in the last home game of the '69-'70 s<'ason still stands as the ACC single game scoring n•cord. 
It seemed questionable whether even the amazing Austin could follow a performance like that. As it turned out. he bettered it. 
Virtually every team Notre Dame played double eovered Carr whenever possible during his senior year but they were still unable to contain him. He started with a 38-point effort against Michigan and never slowed down. Nine times, he scored over 40 points and. on three occasions, he surpassed the 50 mark. He scored 15 of Notre Dame's last 17 points in the upset of UCLA. He led the Irish to their third straight NCAA berth. His 37.5 ppg scoring average was the best compiled during the regular season. 
There was never anything fancy about Austin Carr-no showboating, nothing flashy, not even a catchy nickname. His only overt "attention-getting" actions were playing with his shirt-tail hanging out 
Frank Pomarico 

as halfbacks. Parseghian listed four other quarterbacks behind Clements and Brown: Frank Allocco, just back from service with the ND basketball team, and Rich Slager are the number two signal-callers, and Tony Brantley and Fred Trosko are tabbed for duty with the third team. 
The first-line defensive team includes George Hayduk and Jim Stock at end and Mike Fanning and Kevin Nosbusch at tackle, and a number one linebacking quartet made up of Gary Potempa, Tim Sullivan, Drew Mahlic, and Greg 

Mike Townsend Dave Casper 

Collins. The defensive secondary and Bob Zanot. remains virtually the same as last 
This afternoon, at 3:45, the Irish year: Tim Rudnick, co-captain 
will make another try at an out­Mike Townsend, Reggie Barnett door practice session. 
Fifteen home games mark 73-74 basketball slate 
Jim Donaldson 
The Irish Eye 

::::::::=:=:=:=:=:=:=========:=:===============================;=;===============;:;:;:::;:;:;:;::========::::=:=:===========::::::::::::::::::: Basketball's best: '70-'73 
;md shooting the smoothest. softest. cleanest shot in 1IH' game. Austin hnd what artists call "purity of linP." Austin had humility. Austin had class.. 
Notn· I)anw. in turn. was blessed to have Austin.
\1 ·1 

\ • 11 (' t'arr was performing his heroics, the efforts of anollwr first-rate player often went unnoticed. J.
• 11· 

t n Is.1o1ws 1wver missed a game in three years at
:\ h 

, o1n· 1)anw. T e Irish played 85 times from
I 1 f · 

lt•('('l11 wr 0 68 to March of '71 and Jones was always in llw ganw. II<' finished his career as Notre Dame's
·f 1 1 ct·

11 1 1 ('a mg scorer 11,367 points l, but few peoplerPnH·m her that. 
:\sa senior hP was second on the team in scoring 
I Jill points. 2:1.1 per game l and first in rebounding 1 I :L I :1\'(•ragp l. On the only two occasions when Carr 
\1 ;1sn't Nolrl' Damp's high scorer during the 29 games t>l tlw '7(1-''il spasm1. Jones was top man. Twenty-six
of IIH' ollwr 27 gamPs. Jones was second in scoring to I'<IIT. I<'Pw pl'ople remember that, either. 
"All I want to do," Jones said late in his senior lt'ar. "is hp able to help the team. To me, it's all a f(•am thing. Inwan. personal glory is not what it's all 
;lllOul... 'l'hP n•maining three berths go to players who helped Notn• Damt.' to the NIT finals this year, after a disappointing 1-6 start. More importantly, they go to pla~·prs who'II be back again next year. 'Fully !'<'Covered from a near-fatal bout with phld>itis. sophomore John Shumate came back to ll•ad this year's Irish in scoring (21.0 ppgl and rebounding 112.2 pgl. In the NIT. the "Big Shue" waltzed off with the !\lost \'alunble Player award by staging on eof the most ineredible shooting performances ever seen in thP :lli-yPar old event. Including a perfect nine-for­ninl' against Lousville and following that up with a 11­nf-12 output ngainst North Carolina, Shumate sank 41· of tlw Sli shots he took from the floor and finished with a tournp~· high of 96 points. 
Shumatp's aceuracy was no fluke. While scoring Greg ~rooks. 6-6, 200-p~unds and 
mon• points than nny sophomore in Irish history, "Siuw" st•t a Notre Dame record for field goal ac­('UI'a(·~·. making 59.2 perdent of his attempts,
smashing Carr's old mark. 
\nothPr outstanding soph. Gary Brokaw, is paired \lith Carr in the "All-Star" backcourt. His 523-point output 117.4 ppgl was one of the best totals ever ('ompilPd by a first-year Irish varsity player and, \lith his niee outside touch and quick moves to the hasket. Brokaw appears certain to improve his point production in the next two vears. 
.Junior ""<;oose" Novak rounds out the quintet. The Irish dictn't have much of a vear in '71-'72 but what Iitt IP sulTPss t hl'y hnd wns due largely to the hustling pia~· of No\'ak. 
.\!though constantly battling bigger. stronger oppmwnts under the boards. Novak topped the squad in scoring 11!1.5 ppg 1 nnd rebounding ( 10.3! as a sophomon•. This vear. he was able to share the hurdPn and his totals slipped to 12.8 ppg and 9.8 rPhounds hut his contribution was just as great. Shooting just .001 below 50 percent for the season. :\m·ak l'nrlect many an Irish "eold" spell with his deactl~· short jumper or a hard-earned rebound basket lrom in dose. 
!\otn• Daml'·s basketball fortunes are on the up­swing. l'lwlps is Inking the Irish back to the top. J'(•rhaps next season will bring a frosh standout who'll ratP "Ali-Stnr" status himself. But. for this \Par's st•niors at least. Carr. Jones. Shumate, Brokaw and Novak will he the men to remember '' h(•n sports lalk {'enters on Notre Dame hardcourt IIH'moriPS. 
Fiftt•en home games highlight tlw 197:1-74 Notre Dame basketball schedule released by Edward W. Krnuse,Athletic Director. "This is h~· far the best home schedule we have been able to offer our bask­Pihall i'ans yet both qualitatively and quantitatively," said Krause, "and with the way our team has comP along this year, everyone hl're is already excited about nPxt 
s<'kason." 
Kraus!' noted that two strong 
indPpt•ndents, Georgetown and D<'Il\'ei·. w1·11 v1·s1't the Ir1'sh for the first time since 1948 and 1949. Denver,1111e of the top 1·ndependents tt11·s yenr w1·th a 17-9 record, re­
-
turns four of its starting five t>layers !'rom th1·s year's team ·which <lef'eated such opponents as 
Stanf'or"'.u Wyom1·ng, Wash1·ngton State. Air Force and Utah State. In one 0 t· 1·ts t·1·nal games of the season, 
the Pioneers took Oklahoma City, an NCAA tourney entry this ye­ar. down tolhewire before bowing'.l."l-of>'.
" 
The surprise team in the East 
('Ol!ld verv me)) be Ge g t 
. " or e own,

winner of only three games a year
·1g(J lltlt a young tea that
' · ' . m 
bounced back this year under new coach John Thompson and four starting freshmen. Thompson and 
his youngsters were the subject of a fpature story in Sporting News this past week. A former Boston 
('pities player. Thompson fooled the experts this year by winning lwPive games against a top flight schPdule. registering impressive wins over St. Bonavanture, Boston College and Fordham. Thompson's 
eollection of freshman talent aln•ndy has some pro scouts ey­('ing li-9 center Merlin Wilson, who this ~·ear ranked as the nation's fo­urteenth leading rebounder. A high school ~llAm.ericanhe teams on the ~ronthne With two other 
,5)Utstandmg freshmen, forwards 
~~~ll~ Lynn. ~ho a.t 6-9 IS touted ~s ,mother Elgm. Baylor. In their _road game agamst Boston College, 
r------------:::......:;______:._________~ THE ARTHUR J. SCHMITT 
Challenges in Science Meetings of the College of Science 
THE COLLEGE OF SCIENCE AND ITS STUDENT SCIENCE COUNCIL 
present 
Roland W. Chamblee, M.D. 

Recently Returned From Providing Medical Care To The People of Uganda 
speaking 

HEALTH CARE FOR THE PEOPLE OF THE WORLD 
Wednesday, April 4, 1973 
8:00 P.M. 
Center for Continuing Education University of Notre Dame 
tlw !Iovas found themselves tr­ailing by tl•n points until Thompson inst•rted an all-freshman lineup that rallied for a 56-55 victory. 
"It's no secret in college basket­hall circles that Georgetown is loaded with a lot of good, young ­tal('(]! and will be able to stay on tlw floor with any team on its sc­lwduiP." said Irish coach Digger­l'lwlps. 
Another opponent that will field 
a ~·oung. veteran squad is Ball 
Stall'. a tenm that returns all five 
startprs inc1ud'mg Larry Bulling-
ton. tlw nation's eleventh leading 
'th ·
scon•r WI a 26-pomt average.
'l'l d 1 f' ·
ll' ti-2 guar a so mished fourth 
in tlw nation last year in free throw 
· h
accuracy Wit an ll2 per cent 
II' h' h
avl'rnge. Is 1g est point
"' · th.
prouuc1Ion IS year was 41 points
and the team's most notable vic­· 
tory came against top-ranked
Illinois State 94-86. The loss was 
thl' only one suffered by Illinois 
st 1 t h d d 
21
• a <'a orne an snappe a ­
game home court skein. 
"Wp •mt a lot of research into our 
,
schPdUIP." said Krause, "with the 
hopl' of eoming up with talented 
lt'ams in order to give our fans and 
stuctmts top collegiate basketball 
altraetions. I know our players 
and coaches want to play the best 
possibll' eompetititon. They like 
the challt>nge." Krause explained. 
The Irish nlso include traditional 
rivals Marquette, Michigan State, 
Indiana. St. Louis, Kentucky and 
DPPaul. In nddition, the Irish will 
face several teams that appeared 
on this past yar's slate; Ohio 
Stnt,•. Xavier.Kansas. LaSalle, Duke Fordham, South Carolina 
Villanova, Dayton and Wes't 
\'irginin. Perennial champion UC­
LA and NotreDamewill meet twice, 
with I he Uclans appearing in the 
ACC on January 19. Northwestern, 
·slated for a coaching change, will 
host the Irish on December 6. while 
nparby rivals Valparaiso annd 
Western Michigan will be guests on 
DPcember I and February 18 resp­
Pctively. 





