---~ ---------~--------------------... 
On The Inside 
Gov. Bowen at SMC ... page 3 Parents Weekend at ND ... page 4 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VIII, No. 40 
Gallup rating down 
Congressmen. media urge Nixon to quit 
by United Press International 
Several of the nation's leading newspapers, Time magazine and a Republican senator called Sunday for the resignation of President Nixon, whose re-election some of them supported just a year ago. 
Sen. Edward M. Brooke, R-Mass., became the Republican senator to call for Nixon's resignation. 
Asked if he thought Nixon should step down, Brooke said, "I have reluctantly come to that con­clusion ... There's no question that President Nixon has lost his effectiveness as the leader of this country." 
A number of other senators said mail from constituents was running about 6 to 1 against the President, CBS News reported. 
Lowest rating since '69 
The latest Gallup poll showed only 27 per cent of those surveyed supporting the president-far and away his lowest rating since taking office in 1969. 
Chairman Howard W. Cannon, D-Nev., of the Senate Rules Committee, said his mail indicated "there are many people in the country" who believe the president plans to quit despite White House statements to the contrary. But Cannon said in a CBS-TV interview he did not feel Nixon would or should resign at this time. 
Brooke, in an ABC television interview, said of the president: ''There is no question that he is a patriot and I hope that he does reconsider his decision relative to resignation.. J don't think the country can stand the trauma that it has been going through for the past month. 
it has been like a nightmare." 


Time's first editorial 

Time magazine, in its first editorial in 50 years of publication, said that Nixon should resign because "he has irredeemably lost his moral authority, the confidence of most of the country and therefore his ability to govern." 
"The most important decision of Richard Nixon's remarkable career is before him: whether he will give up the presidency rather than do further damage to his country," the magazine said in its latest edition, noting that its now defunct sister magazine, Life, endorsed Nixon for president in 1960, 1968 and 1972. 
The Detroit News, a staunch supporter of President Nixon in the past, said Nixon should step down after Michigan Congressman Gerald Ford has been confirmed as vice president. 
"If he does not resign, serious consideration should be given to his impeachment," the News said. The Denver Post, noting that one year ago to the day it editoriallly supported Nixon for the presidency, said: 
"History would think well of a Nixon decision to step down, not as an admission of guilt, but as a recognition that the needed trust essential to the conduct of his offi~e has been lost," the newspaper said. "Richard Nixon would gain stature by such a selfless move." 
The New York Times said that President Nixon should quit because a "surging torrent" of events has stripped him of his "capacity to act as chief executive." 
"The one last great service that Mr. Nixon can now perform for his country is to resign. He has been trying to 'tough it out' for too long at too great a cost to the nation." the Times said. "As long as he clings to office, he keeps the presidency swamped in a sea of scandal and the American public in a morass of concern and confusion." 
The Gallup Poll showing Nixon's sharply reduced support, was conducted the wekend of Oct. 19-22-the same time as the firing of special Watergate prosecutor Archibald Cox and the resignation of Attorney General Elliott Richardson. 
The 27 per cent approval for the way Nixon was doing his job, compared with 68 per cent in his favor less than a year ago, according to the Gallup organization in Prin­ceton, N.J. 
To the question, "Do you think the president should be impeached and compelled to leave the presidency, or not," the response was 33 per cent yes, 53 per cent no and 15 per cent with no opinion. 
Monday, November 5, 1973 

Festivities held Saturday for Law Building completion 
by Mary Kay Baron Staff Reporter 

A festive charm distinguished the events celebrating the dedication of the Kresge Law Library, held 'Saturday in the Notre Dame Law School. Inviting over 300 guests, the Law School commemorated the com­pleted renovation of the building. 
Fr. Theodore Hesburgh initiated the day's activities with a concelebrated mass and a blessing of the Law School building. 
The faculty and students school then toured guests, hosted a reception in the student lounge and climaxed the day's activities with a dinner in the Law Library. 
Special guests at the dinner included Kenneth Montgomery, who recently established the Kiley Fellows, and Judge Riger J. Kiley of the United States Court of Appeals for theSeventhCircuit. U.S. Senator from Indiana Birch Bayh, joined in the day's activities, but could not stay for the dinner. 
Gratefully acknowledging the $750,000 gift from the Kresge Foundation were Thomas L. Shaffer, Dean of the Law School, and Thomas F. McKenna, president of the Student Bar Association. 
Prior to the final benediction by Fr. Edmund P. Joyce, Fr. Hesburgh expressed his gratitude to the speakers at the program who included Stanley S. Kresge, Chariman of the Board of the Kresge Foun­dation; Associate Dean of the Law School David Link· Professor of Law Edward J. Murphy; and Provost Fr: James Burtchaell, who emceed the dinner-time ac­tivities. 
Focusing the contents of his speech upon the model life and integrity of Sir Thomas More, Hesburgh stated, "The world needs kinds of people who are 
willing to live as martyrs and as human as Thomas More." 
Hesburgh continued that it was More's philosophy that every true subject is bound to have respect to his own conscience more than anything else. He quoted More as saying, "If this conscience be not enough to keep a man of faith, let him not live." 
Highlighting the renovations of the Law School building in terms of its expansion and refurbishment, many new features from a modern legal teaching facility in a traditional Gothic setting with contemporary design features. The $1.6 million project, which doubled the building's original amount of usable space, included a modernization of the existing structure and the construction of an addition to the building's east end. Supporting the modernization was the $750,000 grant from the Kresge Foundation, funds from the federal government and con­tributions of Notre Dame law alumni. 

In lieu of renovation, the Kresge Law Library now has tripled its capacity to store books and can now seat every member of the law student body. While wide balconies ­provide study space and casual reading areas, the new library also features sefveeral study 

Law school Dean Thomas L. Shaffer was among the speakers Saturday at the Kresge Law Library dedication ceremonies. The $1.6 million project was financed by grants from the Kresge Foundation, the federal government, and law school alumni, and doubled the building's original amount of available space. (Staff photo by Ann Barrows) 
group rooms, additional work and office space for staff and facilities for microfilming and computer ter­minals. 
The core of the new Notre Dame Center on Civil Rights will be located in the Civil Rights Reading Room, which will house Father Hesburgh's personal papers and records from his 15-year term on 
(continued on page 2) 


. ..RiJYm9n~) . . . . · · · 

. . t ~ · , , 

the observer Monday, November 5, 1973
J 

warld briefs 

WASHINGTON (UPI)-At the end of Prime Minister Golda Meir's talks in Washington, Israel has dispatched its foreign minister ~o Rumania. An Egyptian envoy is. headed for France to open an Arabic diplomatic offensive on the mid~ast. . . 
CAIRO (UPI)--Arab oil producers have decided to cut their productions by 25 per cent of September's out-put. 5 per cent m~nthly cuts will follow, but exports to na1tion friendly to the Arab cause m the mid~ast will not be affected. 
NEW YORK (UPI)--New York firemen, hospital workers, and newspaper employees have threatened strikes today, but Uni~ed Auto Worker officials in Detroit say Union employees of Internabon Har­vester across the country have voted to accept a new three year contract. 
BIRMINGHAM, ALABAMA (UPI)--Alabama's Governor George Wallace is exoected to remain hospitalized in Birmingham another day or two following minor surgery. 
In car accident 
St. Mary's student injured 
by Janie Cannon 

Staff Reporter Pamela Anne Waldeck, a 19 year old St. Mary's student was struck by a car on Friday night on the main road of the St. Mary's campus. She was taken im­mediately to St. Joseph's Hospital for examination and surgery. 
Waldeck  was  found  to  have  a  
dislocated  pelvis,  head  cuts,  a  
possible concussion and  possible  
internal injuries.  

Waldeck was struck by a 
westbound car on the main road while returning from the pep rally. 
Six students witnessing the accident identified the car for police investigation. Indiana State Trooper Barry Edds reported the hit and run driver as a 21 year old Peggy McDonough, a St. Mary's student. 
McDonough told Edds that she was driving along the road on her way to McCandless Hall, when she heard a strange sound, although she didn't realize that she had hit anyone. She reportedly looked back and didn't see anythmg before continuing to her residence. 
St. Joseph's Hospital reports the victim in "fair condition but still in the intensive care unit." 
No charges have been pressed and the police are continuing the investigation. 
Jan Bobak, a sophomore resident of LeMans Hall, reported the accident to Security after hearing the commotion outside of her second story window. 
St. Mary's Security was unavailable for comment. 

La'W School Library· finished 
students with a realistic setting in 

I ' 
(continued from page I) 
which they can practice in-­the United States Civil Rights terviewing and counseling clients. Commission. A remote controlled closed circuit 

I Other new features include a television system facilitates the mock law office which provides the broadcast of any activity in this 
t 
t ND Debating Club ~ entirely student-run 
September and continues:by Gregg Bangs throughout the school year with th€~Staff Reporter National Championships being held in April. There is a meet held!
"For a debate club that is not a nearly every weekend. To par..

high powered organization com­
r r 
I 
peting on a national circuit against (continued on page 6) are South Bend area firms. the likes of Harvardand California .----------------------------'~ schools , we come off doing very 
•1 well," stated Dave Hayes, a junior ' government major and President · 
of Notre Dame's Debating Club. ' 
In a telephone interview, Hayes related that the Notre Dame team does not have a full-time coach like most debating teams, and also has 
a very small budget. According to Hayes, many debating teams have their coaches do research for them, while the students just do the actual debating. At Notre Dame the students do everything. · In keeping with this policy head • debate coachNorman:Lerum is a! graduate student. -Lerum, a third year law. student, is ,. assited by John Borkowski, a first year law student. 
Although the funding of the team is stricly on a club-like basis, the turnout for the team is excellant. There are some thirty to forty people on the Debating team this
. 

year. The season started in mid-
The Obsener is publiShed dally during the college semester exc:ept vacations by the sttJGents of the University of Notre Dame end St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for Sl per semester !S14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, 
1 Indiana 46556. Second class posta9e -~jd, Notre Dame,. Ind•• 
46$56. ­
mock law office to any other classroom in the building. 
Every floor of the renovated building is accessible to han­dicapped persons via ramps and a new elevator. Among the modern devices employed in the remodeled and refurnished classrooms are television cameras, and white blackboards. Two of the classrooms also have rear screen projection equipment. 
The architectural firm responsible for the renovation project was Ellerbe Architects­Engineers-Planners of St. Paul, Minn. General contractor was the Hickey Co., and mechanical contractor was H. DeWulf Mech~nical Contractor, Inc. All· 


In Africa or in any of the 3S countries where Divine Word Missionary Priests and Brothers serve. You will feel so good after a day's work that you'll do a wheelie on your way home. 
·-------------·-------------­
If you'd like more info write:  Or call collect:  
Fr. Tom Streveler, S.V.D.  (319) 876  -3332  
Divine Word College, Dept. C-9  
Epworth, Iowa  52045  

Name-------------------------------------------------­Freshman 0 Sophmore 0 Junior 0 Senior 0 Address-----------------------------------­
--·-·'}
CitY ----------­

State----ZiP-----­
...lln···w:ampus today.. 
7 & 10 p.m.--shakespeare film series, "king lear", washington hall, free 
8 p.m.--lecture, "the hidden history of women in the church," by joan morris, author of the lady was a bishop, little theatre, moreau hall, smc, tree 
8 p.m.--lecture, "planetary atmoshperes: new studies of mars and jupiter," tobias co. owen, nieuland sci. bldg, rm. 127, free 
8 & 10 p.m.--cinema '74, mamoulins "applause", eng. aud, $1.00 

Universal Artists proudly presents in South Bend 
An Evening With 



TODD RUNDGREN 
SUNDAY, NOV. 11th 8pm 
Tickets available at Student Union Ticket Office 11:30-5:00 daily. 
MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 
211 North Michigan Avenue Downtown South Bend, Indiana 
TICKETS ARE NOW ON SALE: MORRIS CIVIC BOX OFFICE, 11-5 daily and at BOOGIE RECORDS. $4.00 Cad­vance(, $4.50 (day of concert) 
: :·.. iiJ,!HtGIUHMrititil! •••: 
1I WITH COUPON : 
l ; FULL EIIUIE TUIE-UP : 
1• . I '
\: -. * :
lj~ zi!Ls2o9sj
. .
. . 
t ANY 6 CYL. U , S. AUTO 1 :ADO $4 FOR 8 CYL. CARS.: t AIR COND. CARS $2 MORE , 1 : INCLUDES PLUGS • POINTS,: 
: CONDENSER, CHECK : t CHOKE, TIME ENGINE, : BALANCE CARBURETOR 
.-----··-····-···-··-··-(
· · ut\IR'~"*'·'"i:l1" 
WITH COUPON 
FROITEIDa
lli&IIEIT = 
MOST AMERICAN • CARS 
PARTS EXTRA 
IF NEEDED 
.......................... 
I • • •i§:iifi.iil!++!fiipfi tp• • 
WITH COUPON 
BUIE RELIIII& 
EXCEPT DISC 
• BRAKES AND 



~;;;::· 
INCLUDES FULL INSPECTION I FLUID AND CLEAN. 

$4" 
, PUS IISTAWml
.
........................ 
Snow Recaps 
$2295 560-15 
(plus F.E.T.) 
Premium 4 Ply Nylon 



Snow Tires 
F78-14 Blackwalls start as low as 
$1695 
(Plus F.E.T.) 



20% OFF 
on all tail pipes, exhaust pipes, and mufflers. 

Discount Tire Service 
50595 U.S. 31 North 

272-1023 
·I' • I ''It·, ·.• ,·.t:•
.OPEN DAILY TIL 6 SATURDAY TIL 4 

Monday, November 5, 1973 the observer 
Bowen visits St. Mary's campus 
by Fred Graver Staff Reporter 

Indiana Governor Otis Bowen visited St. Mary's College on Friday afternoon, meeting briefly with Dr. Edward Henry, President of the College, then with the Board of Directors of the College's Parents Council, and finally toured the College's Parent­Delinquent Education Program. 
Bowen held an impromptu news conference while visiting with Henry. He discussed Watergate, the Energy Crisis, and state property taxes with local repor­ters. 
In a brief meeting with the Parents Council, Governor Bowen encouraged the organization by saying "my feelings on education have always been known;J feel it is one of the most important things a state canconcernitself with." 
The Governor's main objective was to tour the Parent-Delinquent Education Program.· He toured with the teachers of the program and met with some of e students. When he asked one of the students how this program differed from the public school system, the student replied, "I don't know.. 
it's just far out." 

Governor Bowen encouraged the students to help the program succeed, explaining that this is a pilot program for a larger state­wide system !lOW being developed. 
"So this makes you all very im­portant people," he said. 
The main purpose of the PDEP is to assist youth, particularly junior high school students, in developing positive self-images. The students receive in­dividualized instruction in academic areas; provisions are made to stimulate hobbies of their own interest; counseling is held on an individual and group basis; and a physical culture program is provided. 
For Life Science library 


Dedication ceremonies held 
by Bob Quakenbush 
Staff Reporter 

Formal dedication ceremonies for the University of Notre Dame's Kirsch-Wenninger Life Sciences Research Library were observed Saturday morning in the Galvin Life-Science Center. Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, University president, officiated at the dedication and Fr. James Burtchaell, Provost, was the principal speaker. 
Alexander M. Kirsch, C.S.C., and Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., were two Holy Cross priest­scholars who served as the first two directors of the department of biology at the University. Kirsch, Notre Dame's first geologist, began the University's first fossil collection, and both could be considered as two of the Univer­sity's first life-scientists. 
The Wenninger-Kirsch Biology Hall, located on the North Quad, already honors their memory. The hall formerly housed the depart­ment of biology. However, that building will soon be rededicated Haggar Hall, in recognition of a generous grant by the Haggar family which will permit its 
renovation. 

"Therefore," said Burtchaell during the ceremony, "we decided to bring their names to the center of this hall (Galvin) so that their memory won't fade from Notre Dame." 
A little bit of research, Burtchael revealed, uncovered the fact that this will be the second biology library dedicated to their memory. 
In 1948, the old biology library had been dedicated to them by recently deceased Fr. Kenna. 
After Burtchaell 's opening remarks, Hesburgh formally blessed and dedicated the library in a brief ceremony. 
Within the library now hangs a large marble plaque bearing the following inscription: "May studies here during the unfolding 
years bring growing radiance to the light of scientific learning enkindled at Notre Dame by Fathers Alexander M. Kirsch 0855-1923) and Francis J. Wen­ninger (1884-1940), priests of the Holy Cross, teacher-scholars in the life-sciences, deans, they have sown the seeds of learning which through years of patient growth give rich yield: thirty fold, sixty fold , a hundred fold." 
The text of the plaque, which was completed only Thursday, was inspired by Fr. Charles Sheedy, C.S.C. 
The bookplate which will adorn the inside covers of the library's 22,000 volumes was designed by Fr. Anthony Lauck, C.S.C. The bookplate features a simplified version of the University's official crest, the outlined silhouette of a microscope, and the words, KIRSCH-WENNINGER . LIBRARY.. Souvenir bookplates were distributed to those in at­tendance. 
The more than 50 persons at­tending included Dr. Paul Wein­stein, chairman of the biology department, Dr. Morris Pollard, chairman of the department of microbiology, several faculty members, their wives, students, and friends of the University. 
After the ceremonies, student­conducted tours of the Galvin Life­Science Center were offered to the guests. 
780 tickets donated for student exchange program 
by David Kaminski Staff Reporter 

A final 380 football tickets donated between 1 and 4 p.m. Friday boosted the ticket total to 780 for the fourth annual student ticket exchange held for the Navy game last Saturday. 
In addition, nearly 40 students volunteered as monitors and another 15 students drove area children from their schools to Notre Dame and back again after the game. 
The biggest number of tickets, 380, went to the Neighborhood Study Help Tutoring Program sponsors of the ticket drive. Another 130 children from Logan Center went to the game on the donated tickets. 
Other groups benefiting from the ticket drive were the Northeast Neighborhood Center, Sr. Marita 's Day School, and the Big Brothers of St. Joseph County. 
With the exception of the Logan Center children, who sat together 
Night Editor: Bill Brink Assistant Night Editor: Dan 
Sanchez Day Editor: Mary Janca Copy Reader: Rick Thues Picture Screener: Jerome Phillips Typists: Bob Steinmetz, Howard 
Halle, Joe Abell HAL Operator: Bob Steinmetz :Night Controlle~:.' Jqe A~(l ; 
in section 30, children sat in various parts of the student sec­tions. Students working on the ticket drive sat up late at night matching the seat number of 
volunteer monitors with donated tickets so that the children could be supervised during the game. 
All 780 tickets were not used, according to Art Wesselman, director fo the ticket drive. By Thursday night, Wesselman still needed 300 tickets for groups outside campus and he wasn't sure if he'd get enough tickets to meet all requests. By the time the big wave of donations came in on Friday afternoon, a few of the groups requesting tickets had 
given up hope. In order to solve this problen1 in the future, Wesselman hopes that 
. Notre Dame students will be allowed to donate tickets in the dining halls instead of only at the ACC. In this way, students might donate their tickets sooner and ticket drive organizers might know earlier in the week how many tickets they will have to work with. 
The Neighborhood Study HelpProgram expressed , 
thanks to Don Bouffard and Mike Busick of the tickets office as well as Robert Cahill, business manager of athletics, for their 
cooperationand supervision of the ticket drive. 

SAINT LOUIS UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF LAW 
Assoc. Dean Peter Salsich (A.B. NO -'59} 
I will be on campus Tuesday, November 6th from 1:30pm -6:OOpm to talk with students about Law School, the Legal Profession, and Saint Louis University School of Law. Of particular interest to Notre Dame Students is Saint Louis University School of Law's New Joint J.D.-M.A. in Urban Affairs Program and expanding clinical programs. I will be at the Placement Bureau, Administration Building. 
· , , , 
4 

.. "• ~ t II I l I •. I L----.4--~++...4--...:-I-0-.......-.....:...--------------1
11" 

~._· • • • -r ' .: ' ~ or ' • a. 
~ 

. 
.' ~.:
-~ -.. 1 f I • \t " t 6 • f • • • • , • • • , , • • .. , •
' . • . • •••• • • . • • • • • • • • • • • .
9 99

~'r,'' ill~"; "to" ".t ') ...... '·•'• r. • -.• -., ·.,., ~ .......-· • • a • ... • • .. • • • • • .•.'• • • •.• • • • • • .. •,.•.. '·"'· ~ ••• T ..''P,.1',1',..-4 '9,'9.'t 
The students have been referred to PDEP through the South Bend probation department for acts of juvenile delinquency. 
The parents of the students receive weekly group counseling, group instruction in the study and discussion of the role of the parents, and help in un­derstanding the factors relating to juvenile delinquency in the home. 

Governor Bowen's visit marked the second time in recent months that a political figure has toured the PDEP facilities. Senator Birch Bayh <D-Indiana) visited them in August. Bayh had stressed the "need to develop productive, law· abiding young citizens, not only for the sake of the young people who confront the juvenile justice system, but for s~_!ety as well." 
The way to buy the insurance you need but may feel you can't afford. 
For further information call: ,233-3104. Talk to: 

John Counsell
JOHN COUNSELL 
Class of '64 
CLASS OF '64 



M0NY 
MUTUAL OF NEW YORK
The Mutual Life Insurance Company 01 New York 


The 
Paulist isa modern man 
of today working for tomorrow 
seeking answers to the problems that beset us 
in cities and suburbs in parishes and on campus praying sharing 


CILA 

CHRISTMAS CARDS 
Designed by mem­
bers of the N D 
community and sold by CILA 
(Council for the In­ternational Lay Apostol ate) 

SOLD ON CAMPUS this week! 

• t I ' ' • 
• • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • . • • . . _'1 ·• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • .• • .•.• . : .: .• .; .• I 
counseling celebrating 
The Paulists modern priests on the move serving Christ throughout North America 
For more information about the Paulists, send for THE PAULIST 
PAPERS-a new vocation kit of posters, articles and recordings. 
415 West 59th St., New York, N.Y.10019 

j 
~ 
~­

the observer Monday, November 5, 1?73 

Sharing 



sights 
& 
sounds 


at·ND 
There's a lot more to a Notre Dame football weekend than just football, or so many Notre Dame parents discovered last weellend during Parents' Weekend. From browsing at the bookstore to watching the band step off before the game, parents were shown the many ex­
citements and fun that goes into Notre Dame. (Staff photos by Joe Raymond) 



~ 
r 
........ 

, \r.t ·.·.·:
• ', ~ ~ I.

.-. Monday, November 5, 1973 the observer '... 

simon conquers notre dame 
butch ware 

Amidst the passionate pleas of the Jesse Not only the artist and his music, but also Dixson Singers, amidst the crisp-mellow the man and his music are inseparable. sounds of Urubamba's homemade pipes and 
His inability to adapt personally to the strings, amidst the single white beam that 
structure that so often hinders the popular performer was a credit to Simon; cuttingleft his presence uncontested, there stood 
short "Run That Body Down" or blending
Little Napoleon. Center stage. Paul Simon, the artist, the 
"Was A Sunny Day" and "Cecilia" into man. medley form might signify indifferent frugality on the part of some performers,
Clothed in his lily-suit of success, the but for Simon it showed a real perception ofartist brought to the stage structure of a his ability to do justice to songs originallywell-planned concert. It was all well laid 
accompanied by noticai,>ly missed in­
out the varied sounds of his recent solo rel~ases interwined with the crowd-pleasing strumentation. 
There was no compromise necessarymemories performed so many times before. 
however when the man and the artistBut Simon, the man, brought much more combined to express the tragedy of Simon'sto the a·rena Saturday night. He brought the "American Tune." Obviously rather sur­risky smile, the cautious glance at the prised by the .audience's reaction to histhousands of unfamiliar smiling faces, those feelings about the necessity of winning, hewords of tenderness for his adopted soul in let his version of hymn-like patriotismthe first row, and an absolute refusal to reveal the result of America's preoc­allow his music to be confined by either the cupation with winning.
concert's structure or the thousands of The arrival of Urubamba to the stageperformances that had gone before. 
allowed the artist to appear with four ex­From the very start of his solo conquest of tremely talened and coordinated musicians. 
the acoustic guitar, Simon demonstrated Throughout "El Condor Pasa" andduring "Me and Julio Down By The 
"Duncan," Simon both blended and rose Simon perhaps revealed himself most
Schoolyard" his unwillingness to settle for wasn't missed. 
above; he allowed for the excellence of the
mere reproductions of his best-selling intensely during his rendering of 1 Perhpas the crowed finally found an outl€­
Peruvians' music to complementhis music, 
soundtracks. His voice glided smoothly "Something So Right." His concentration for their imprisoned enthusiams when Jess through variations on the original melody but the songs remained definitely Simon's. on the nylon strings, coupled with his lyrical and the group shook the stage with sounds o while he professed the appreciative The artist was center stage. statement of self-imprisonment betrayed Jesus and salvation, but it was Simon fo audience the seer...~ to his creativity. But as was to be the case later with the the artist's concern about the song. And the whom they screamed at the concert'. 
Jesse Dixson group, the real talents of 
audience reaction revealed their ap­scheduled end. Following the group'.Urubamba came forward when the quartet preciation of his ability to letthe man show prepared encore, "Love Me Like A Rock, presented music with which they were more 
through his work. Simon again showed that spontaneity that s familiar, in this case, a pair of South But the man could not be hidden behind 
often is lost among the superstars of the po American folk tunes. The artist stepped the nostalgia of "Homeward Bound!' either; music scene. back, and allowed those accompanying him the trail of "one-night stands" has gotten Reacting to a shout from the crowd fo to prove they were playing with and not much longer since the days when Simon him to play "America" Simon rose abov 
behind Simon. first sang of going home, and perhaps it the super-performers who feel that ol Not until his last number of the first half of wasn't the artist redoing an old hit. Perhaps songs are to be endured and not expressed the concert did Simon perform one of the big the man had come to simply "Play the And when called for a third time, he offere hits of the duet-glory days. Yet together game and pretend." "Bye, Bye Love" as a seeming recogniti01 with Urubamba, "The Boxer" came alive But if Simon was merely pretending, he that the audience really wanted him to b• 
again on the cold streets of New York City staged quite a show once the Jesse Dixson there. as Simon added an extra verse and the Singers reached the stage. "Mother and But the man and his spontaneity coul1 revealing assurance that it was the ri1an Child Reunion" with enthusiams as Little have not been expressed more perfect!:singing of the comforts of Seventh Avenue. Napoleon commanded attention in the midst than in the complete befuddlement of Sim01 
·still cautious about committing himself to of i\lepowerful choral group with authority once he agreed to take the stage for th• the packed ACC audinece, Simon brought reminiscent of Shirley Temple herself. fourth encore. "Johnny B. Goode"was s. his unsure half-smile and a varied rendition The group's performance of both "Sounds trite, yet so unpredicatable, and sr of "Mrs. Robinson" with him to start the of Silence" filled the arena with that same pleasantly unprofessional that everyon•­
second half of the show. And while powerful eerieness that Simon ac­present could not help but be reminded tha "Kodachrome" definitely missed the in­
complished so many conerts ago. And a Paul Simon does exist separately from th• strumentation present on the soundtrack, far-different power filled the same arena as album covers and the sound studios. 
again the artist was not trying to fool Simon rocked himself and the group through anyone; he only played what he felt capably 
"Bridge Over Troubled Waters." Somehow, Indeed an artist, Little Napoleon is ur of playing well. Garfunkel's soprano treatment of the creed deniably a man. 



Little Bir:~ Screen 


the graduate 
art ferranti 

Mike Nichols' masterpiece of mail room clerk. convinces the girl to keep a diary father of four girls who all got tgomery Clift and Clark Gable (insatirical comedy finally premieres Some of the routines were old of her last days. This made-for.,_TV married on the same day. Well, in his final role).this Thursday on CBS. The even then, but are still used ef-movie also features a score by My Darling Daughters' An­Specials Carroll O'Connor Graduate which launched star fectively; for example the rich old John Denver and direction by niversary, old Bob wants to get departs from his Archie Bunker Dustin Hoffman to fame stands out couples in the hotel decked out in Joseph Sargent (The Marcus-himself hitched too. Ruth Hussey role in "Three for the Girls'· as one of the truly hilarious views an absurd amount of jewelry. Nelson Murders among others). stars as the lucky lady. Also on the tonight on 22 at nine thirty. Thi! of the mores and norms of the older Nichols also has an uncommon On the schlock side, Yours, Mine made-for-TV quickies is The Girl 
·show has three skits concernin~ 

rich who do not want to be. Add a knack for combining comedy with and Ours airs tonight with Lucille Most Likely to ... , a film with one of wives, daughters, and mothers. 
brilliant score by Simon and pathos as witnessed by Ben in the Ball as a widow with eight kids the most original premises I have · Lee Grant, Nancy Walker, an(Garfunkel, excellent script by pool with scuba gear or Mrs. marrying Henry Fonda as a seen in a long time (how they carry 
Barbara Sharma, and Joar 

Calder Willingham and Buck, and Robinson drenched in the corner of widower with ten and conjugally it through is another matter). This Blondell are featured witt 
some of the funniest comedy the hall. they produce number nineteen. It one concerns an ugly girl who goes O'Conner. Elsewhere, Jimm)editing and photography by Censorship-wise, besides some is an old plot (With Six You Get through plastic surger·· "nd crash Stewart stars as "Hawkins" againcinematographer Robert Surtees vocal vulgarities that will probably Eggroll) with more kids and diets to become beautiful. 
replacing the "CBS Tuesday Nigh! 

and you have got the mood set for be edited out, the tassel-twirler cutsey jokes. However, if you are Newcomer Stockard Channing Movies" this week. And "ABC's 
this landmark (as it is considered) sequence and the motel scene just tired of the same stark drama that plays the girl with Edward Asner Wide World of Entertainment" haE 
in film making. Yet Nichols was before Ben pounds his head on the does pervade the tube these days as a friend. Joan Rivers co­Donna Mills menaced by a haunted 
the only one to .take home an wall will most likely be cut. And (and you don't want to watch the authored the script which touts a Rolls Royce in One Deadly Owner Oscar. just to be picky, as Ben crosses the Redskins play the Steelers) you surprise twist at the conclusion. tomorrow night, Gary Merrill and 
Ann Bancroft plays the now Golden Gate to go to Berkeley he might want to catch this film for a Marilyn Monroe, Jack Lemmon, Eugene Roche in The Murderers legendary Mrs. Robi11son of drives on the top span. Well, as change. But then, you can always Tony Curtis, George Raft, and Pat Wednesday (opposite Paul Tarzana who seduces young every San Franciscan knows, that study too (perish forbid). O'Brien star in channel 16's late Newman on CSB as Billy the Kid in Benjamin Braddock. But Ben falls is a physical impossibility for .. Buck and the Preacher ·movie Saturday Some Like It Hot. The Left Handed Gun), This Child in love with her daughter Elaine either of the two bay spanning premieres this Saturday on NBC. This Billy Wilder comedy has is Mine (lifted from ABC's once-a­(Katherine Ross). Murray bridges. One drives to S.F. on the Sidney Poitier and Harry musicians Curtis and Lemmon month "Playbreak") with Robin Hamilton portrays Mr. Robinson top span, and Oakland (later to Belafonte star as the two drifters witness a St. Valentine's Day type Strasser and Don Gallowayand William Daniels and Elizabeth Berkeley) on the lower. But the who meet up and go after the bad massacre in the depresssion and Thursday, and "In Concert" Wilson play Ben's parents. If you film is so fine that I'll let this go. guys. There is a rather obvious join up in drag with an all female Friday featuring Cat Stevens. look real closely you will see Ben A new tear jerker is slated for theme of prejudice running jazz band to hide. The film is Murphy ("The Name of the showing Friday night. Sunshine is throughout which tries to cover a nothing short of hilarious. In Game," "Alias Smith and Jones," a true story about a young mother somewhat simple plot. You can Sunday's late film, Marilyn again "Grifff') in a bit part when Hoff­who is dying of cancer. Christina count on the usual shoot-out in the stars in The Misfits, a sobering man tries to find out where the Raines stars as the afflicted wife closing scenes. drama of modern day cowboys 
Trivia Questionwhat actor fired the wedding is taking place. Murphy with Cliff DeYoung as he~ hus~and f Wednesday's made-for-TV flick who compete in rodeos for money first fateful rocket in The Bedfordis the guy who cracks the piece of who cannot accept the situation. is a sequal to last year's All My and for their women. Arthur Incident?

cake joke in the shower. Even Brenda Vaccaro portrays the next-Darling Daughters which featured Miller wrote the play upon which Buck Henry gets_ i!l the act as a door neighbor and doctor who Robert Young as the widowed this is based. It also stars Mon-·Jnqpy;>ew samer Ja.\\suv 



the observer Monday, November 5, 1973
6 

By executive board 

SMC parents' ro,le discussed 
by Mary Janca "The recruitment committee 
girls can find what job openings 
Staff Reporter will be supportive to the ad­
there are, where the needs are and
missions program in whatever 
what new jobs are opening,"
Discussing ways in which way the admissions group thinks 
Dolores said. 

parents of St. Mary's students they can help, explained Dolores, 
"The committee supports the
might take a more active role in This will include setting up 
Development Program by
aiding the college, the Board of meetings between possible en­
assisting in foundations to the 
SMC Karate and Self-Defense Club

Directors of the Parents Council trants and recruitment workers, 
college," she stated.
held an organizational meeting she added. 

"In the spring," she continued, 
presents

Friday. The second committee "will 
"each committee will report on
Members of the administration work with the career office. A 
their progress and explore other
addressed the 15-couple executive 

parent who is competent in a possibilites in which parents could 



KARATE

board, during the morning session, particular area," she said, "could get involved."
"about eoncerns and how the come and talk about it." If the All parents of St. Mary's
Parents Council could assist parent works for a company which students are members of the 

DEMONSTRATION

them," said Parents Council sends out representatives, he could ParentsCouncil, Dolores noted.
Secretary Sr. Ellen Dolores. help, she explained, by having Those interested in becoming 
6:30 p.m.

In the afternoon, Board mem­representatives sent out to the actively involved in the Parents
bers discussed specific ways which college, or by calling the career 
Council, she explained, may write 
Wednesday, Nov. 7

they might get parents involved in office and informing them of job 
to the college, "Chairmen will also 
assisting the administration, 


SMC Coffeehouse

openings. try "to identify parents who are
particularly through three com­

"This is a fruitful way jparents interested in specific areas," she 
membershi s still acce ted

mittees set up last spring, con­can aid the college and St. Mary's concluded.
tinued Dolores. These committees cover the areas of: admissions and recruitment, career planning and placement, and acquisition of foundations for grants, she said. 
Debating Team travels country forweekly meets 
(continued from page 2) 
ticipate in them, the team travelsall over the midwest as well as 
New Orleans, Boston, Florida and New York. 
The club normally sends one or two teams to participate in tour­naments. These teams are com posed of two people who work with each other throughout the tournament. The members of the Number one team this year are Hayes and Jeff Rajchel, another junior. Senior John Flanagan and Sophomore John Lund are the members of the second team. 
These· two teams generally travel to the more important meets of the season, but everybody on the squad gets to compete for the club at least once this season; mostly due to the tremendous amount of meets that Notre Dame is com­peting in this year. 
The subject for debate remains constant throughout the whole season, as was decided prior to the season in a resolution set forth by the National Debate Society. This year's subject deals with the Energy Crisis. 
The form of a Debate Tournament is somewhat com­plex. When two teams engage in a debate, one team starts off with a ten minute introduction that favors the given subject of debate. A negative ten minute introduction is then given by the other team. The other team member of the positive team then gives a "constructive >peech." This lasts for ten 
ninutes, afterwhich the negative team also gives a constructive >peech. 
After these two speeches, four five minute rebuttals are given by each team. Thus, each match lasts forty minutes. In a tournament, a team will usually have eight such matches, which can lead to a fairly exhausting three days of debating. 
In a tournament sponsored by Central Michigan, the Irish went to the quarterfinals before losing to the eventual tournament winner, Eastern Illinois. 

Notre Dame sponsored a tour­1ament earlier this fall. The .vinner was Purdue, another ex­cellent debating team. Notre Dame did not compete in this• tournament. Looking ahead into the later stages of the season, Hayes thinks that the Irish are one of the best teams in the midwest along with Purdue and Michigan. If Notre Dame can defeat these teams and win the Midwest regional, it could find itself in the Nationals this 
1 Dial Soap FOR MEN 1 Lady Trac II Razor FOR WOMEN 2 Excedrin 2 Lemon-Up Shampoo 3 Active Tooth Polish 3 Active Tooth Polish 4 Flair Pen 4 Jean Nate



SEMI SEMI
5 Dep for Men Shampoo 5 Woolite 6 Breath Pleasers 6 Midol 7 Sea & Ski Lipsaver 7 Contac Cold Capsules

FREE! FREE!
8 Contac Cold Capsules 8 Breath Pleasers 9 Trac II Razor 9 Aqua Fresh 
1 0 Foamy Shave Cream 10 At Least One Bonus Product 11 Tame Balsam & Body Instant Conditioner 12 Playtex Deodorant Tampons 
AT LEAST 10 PRODUCTS FOR YOU THAT WILL SAVE YOU MONEY! 



HANDYFOR TRAVEL 
only 99~ AVAILABLE 
TODAY THE HAMMES FROM YOUR BOOKSTORE NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
(LIMIT: ONE PER STUDENT) 
, • • } I • ..

Apnl. • •. • • •. L-------------------------------~~~------~~------~----~TYTT~.~.7.TT~rr~------~~~~· '.~ ·~~ ~ 
. , . .......... l~·"'"... ~ ...--....· ..., .• '\,,~·.~-~ ~ 
-, ~ 'l I\ I I ·, 

I \~ •••t,•..•, ,~~.· \ f"f" '•"• ~''~.''-,I, 1 'o~ 'i •,-. ~~ \ •
• • ~ 1. • '·, ~ 1 ... / _, •• , ~•~··,' ....... ·,• ·' ,··/· ·It•• (. 'l\.\ ...' ~· '<'...\t.~ \
·:f' .................... ". 4 " ~ ... "t.~.. "'~'-""" ...
.... ........... .......,.. ........., ...'\\. ..... 
.-----------~--------~------------------~---~---------~--~----------------r­

---l 
.. ----. --.......... 

····~· -~------------I 
..... J 
:~: I
~ay, November 5, 1973 the observer 7 
•

Irish open with w1n, tie at Tech 
by John Fineran The final period found the Irish Notre Dame's chances on the Huskies' 2-on-1 break died on periods, Kronholm making 21 taking charge both offensively and Huskie goal were from long range. Zuke's wide shot. Bumbacco's and saves to five by Quance. For the Clarke's shots both missed the gae game, the Notre Dame net­
There is an old success formula defensively While Nyrop, Steve from long range. · in the WCHA which states the team Curry, Les Larson, Pat Novitzki, cage. minder made 42 while is his sweeping at home and splitting on and Brownschidle kept the Tech Notre Dame fared much better Graham Wise had two chances opponent made 29. 
forecheck bottled up, Walsh, in the second period. Bumbacco in the 10-minute sudden-death "Mark was outstanding boththe road will usually end up near Conroy and freshman Clark and Walsh put tremendous stanza, but Kronholm came up nights, especially on Saturday " 
the top of the league. The adage was better than half-true for Notre Hamilton scored for the 8-4 final. pressure on Quance four minutes with sensational saves. Tech had Smith continued. "He held ~s 
into the period, but neither could the better of the paly in the last two together in the third period." 
Israelson hooked up again with Larry's 25-foor slapper beating  Kr11  onholm saves  anin  d Qthe  uance boperiod,  most  th made of  overtime, but poor shots kept the score 2-2. In the third period, the  
goalie Rick Quance.  
Michigan  Tech's  tenecious  
forechecking paid off for a 3-2 lead  
minutes later.  With Mike Zuke of  
Tech  and  Notre  Dame's  Jock  
Brownschidle of  the ice for high­ 
. sticking  penalties,  D'Alvise  
deflected Bob Lorimer's shot from  
the point past Kronholm.  
The Irish tied it again 51 seconds  
later  as  Pat Conroy deflected  a  
shot of his own, off Bill Nyrop's  
point blast for a 3-3 tie at 6:26. A litt  
over  two  minutes  later,  Nitre  
Dame led  5-3  as  Israelson  com­ 
pleted his hat and Walsh added his  
first goal. Although Tech brought  
the  second  period  score  to  5-4,  
Notre Dame was never headed.  Mark Kronholm  Larry Israelson  

Dame's hockey team this weekend Kronholm was tested often get a stick on the loose puck,in Houghton, Mich., as the Irish during the evening, making 36 Quance finally smothering each incame away with an 8-4 win and a 2· saves, while Quance, who looked the crease.2 tie against tough Michigan Tech. shaky most of the evening, a rarity Abbey again went off the ice, this for the senior made but 14. time for holding at 6:39, to give the The Irish gained three out of a "The freshmen exceeded my Irish the man advantage. Bum­possible four points in the series, exped;1tions in their first league bacco's 35-foot slapper was glovedaccomplishing the feat without game," Smith said. "They showed by Quance and Israelson missed athe aid of tri-captain Ian 
much more poise than I expected." 
tip-in attempt off a Curry slapshot. 
Williams. The senior right wing from Toronto will sit out this "The Alex Pirus line <Hamilton DeLorenzi finally connected forweek's games at Michigan State as and Paul Clarke at the wings) the Irish, off a feed from Israeslon,well because of a four-game picked up and did a great job. 
at 8:11. The right winger's firstsuspension handed down by the Walsh played well and got two big shot was blocked by Quance, but
league. goals, while Jack (Brownschidle) the second went in for a 2-1 game.
William's loss made it possible did a fine job when we were A little less than four minutes·for freshman Brian Walsh to score penalized." later, DeLorenzi again connected, two goals in Friday night's contest, Saturday's game was an uphill this time on a 2-on-1 break, taking but it was senior left wing" Larry battle all the way for the Irish. Schafer's nifty feed and depositing Israelson who starred, scoring his Michigan Tech again came out the puck in . the net behind afirst collegiate hat trick. skating, forechecking furiously in startled Quance.
the Notre Dame zone and leaving
Saturday night, the glory the ice after the the first period Kronholm kept the score knottedbelonged to goalie Mark with a 2-0 lead. the rest of the way. Paul Jensen Kronholm. After Tech had taken a With Tech's Abbey off the ice for came in on a breakaway, but the1-0 lead on a Bob D'Alvise goal at tripping a little over one minute Irish goalie kicked it out. The Irish 5: 32 of the first period Friday, into the contest, Lorimer took a freshmen line of Hamilton-Piru:s-Israelson tied it 51 seconds later feed from Zuke at 2:18 for a Clarke had a couple of op­with a feed in the slot from Ray shorthanded goal. Tech made it on portunities, but each to no avail.DeLorenzi. a powerplay marker off the stick of Both teams had chances to winWith the Huskies leading 2-1 in Lorne Stamler at 16: 15. Although the game in the third period andthe second stanza, DeLorenzi and 
Irish hockey stats 
Friday Saturday 
SCORE IY PERIODS

SCORE 8\' PERIODS 1'\otre Damr. ~ I 4 3-11 Sotre Dame . 0 % 0 ~ Micltigan Tech Z 2 0--4 Michigan Ted! % 0 0 ~ 
sAvts 

FIRST PERIOD Kronholm (ND) 11 10 15 6-4% MT-D'Aivise (Wise. Jaschuk), 5:32 Quance (MT) 11 13 5 G-a ND-Israelson (Schafer, DeLorenzi), 6::!3 
•***************i 
MT-5. Jensen (Usitalo, Jaschuk), 
11:29 SECOI\iD PERIOD 



i TONY'S ~ 
ND-Israelson (Dcl.orrnli. Larson). 1:%2 MT-D'AivLw (l.orimer). 5:35 
t SHOE SHOP $ 
NO-Conroy (Bumbaccu, CurrY), 
6:26 ! lowest price on ~ 1'\1>-lsrdcl:;on (DrLorrnzi). i:07 
! shoe repair ~ 
1'\D-Walsh (!'\yrop. Conroy). 8:45 MT-Wise (Usitalo, D'Alvise), 10:57 
THIRD PERIOD ! anywhere ~ 
NO-Walsh (Bumbacco), 5:33. ND-Conroy (Walsh, Bumbacco). ! (on N.D. campus ~ 
17:28 
iC Behind Adm. Bldg.) * 
NO-Hamilton (Pirus. Brownschi· die). 18:00 

i'***************. 
ITALlAN & BRlTlSH SHAG & LAYER CUTS 
HAIR & SCALP ANALYSIS Sam Belardinella 
Mike McDonald 
FOR APPOINTMENTS 
CALL 
188-6661 
Closed Monday 
See Our New MEN'S DEN. featuring The Latest foshiOftl In Men•s Clothes 2303 S. MIAMI S. BEND JUST N. Of IUSCHIAUM'S ,HAIMACY 

HANCOCK RESEARCH NOTES 
120 North 8th Street 
Camden, New Jersey 08102 
Telephone: (609) 365-7857 

24 Hour Hail Orders of Quality Material Complete With Bibliography & Footnotes Lowest Prices GUARANTEED -Compare & See
lSEND $1.00 for a Complete Listing 


CLASSIFIED ADS 
RIDES WANTED 
Need ride to Pitt game Nov. 8 or 9. Will share$$ and driving. 
Bob 3451. 
FOR SALE 

MEERSCHAUM PIPES! 
Exceptional values, per­sonalized service. Catalog. PMP Co. Box 444, Gaither~ sburg, Md. 20760. 
Panasonic tape cassette recorder, never out of box, received as gift. Call Michelle 5123. 
Fine quality hand-made leather goods. Great gifts and good deals too. Drop by 165 Morrissey or call 3493. 
Fischer skis. 232-2540. Reasonable. 
FOR RENT 

Rooms $40 Mo. Near. 233~ 1329. 
All private 3 rooms up for married graduate student. Ali utilities. Near Memorial Hospital . No rent in return for aiding parents to help lift lightweight son and daughter to and from wheelchairs, 232-9128. 
LOST AND FOUND 
LOST 73 senior ring, red stone, initials C.A.L. Lost at O'Shag Nov. l. Reward Call Doug 1028. 
Lost Man,s gold watch Nor'h dining hall Monday. Call 8687. 
NOTICES 
Morrissey Loan Fund can loan up to $150 at 1 per cent interest. 1 day waiting period. Basement of La Forune. 11:15­
12:15 Mon . Fri.. 
TRAVEL! Take advantage of student rates. Talk to the specialists-BOAC. Group inquiries welcome. Call Clark, 234-2098 after 7 pm. 
TONY'S  SHOE  SHOP:  Shoe  
repair • shoe  sales,  wat­ 
chbands.  zippers,  shoe  care  

supplies. All types of leather repair. ON CAMPUS l:iehind Adm. i:lldg. 
PERSONALS 
Oh Jane tell D.D. , thi· SUPER~COOL HEAD DUD• to let me be cool too! N" 11 CF11 King. 
Happy Birthday, Madame F The "Girls". 
Good tix for the Nov. 11 Todd Rundgren concert at Morris Civic and Nov 15 + 15 per­formances of GODSPELL are now avalible at the studnet union ticket office, 2nd floor LaFortune, 11:30-5 daily. 

Shakespeare Film Series presents 
Paul Scofield 
("Man for All Seasons") 








KING LEAR 
TONIGHT 
WASHINGTON HALL 
7 p.m. 
FREE! 
••• ,4. 

10 ~.m. 
) ., 


\ ,I the observer Monday, November 5, ]973 
ND depth charges by Navy, 44-7 
by Vic Dorr Sports Editor 

If turnabout is indeed fair play, Ihan what transpired in Notre ,)arne Stadium on Saturday af­lernoon was the pinnacle of 
,ecency and equanimity. 
Coach Ara Parseghian's fifth­ranked Fighting Irish football feam collided with the Midshipmen .1f the U.S. Naval Academy, took 
wo periods to shake off the last ·estiges of a post Southern Cal ·etdown, and then exploded during 
fast and furious final half to 
!aim a 44-7 victory. 
The game was a complete 
·eversal of last year's affair in 
'hiladelphia, which saw the two 
earns race back and forth across 
he floor of Veterans' Stadium until 
•:o•.l'e Dame posted a 42-23 victory. The Irish hung up a 35-0 lead after the opening 30 minutes of last year's encounter, and then hung on during a lethargic second half to earn their triumph. 
But on Saturday, in front of a 48th consecutive home sellout crowd, there was no in­surmountable lead posted at the end of the first half: Notre Dame led only 14-0 at intermission. Nor was their any second-half let­down: ND's number one offense, capitalizing on a pair of Navy turnovers scored twice during the first four minutes of the final half and made the game's outcome academic. 
It was only a question of "how much" after the second of these TD's and for Navy's beleagured defenders the 'how much' turned out to be plenty. 
Not even a plethora of second­team fumbles could keep Par­seghian's Irish from tallying 30 second half points and chalking up their third-largest margin of the two month-old season. 
"The first half of today's ball game went just about as I'd ex­pected," admitted the Notre Dame coach. "We were afraid that an emotional letdown might follow last week's game with Southern Cal, and in the first half today we were a bit sluggish--offensively and defensively. 
"But we played better in the second half, except for the (six) fumbles by our reserves, and Navy's turnovers early in the third quarter blow the game wide open for us." 
Though the Middies amassed only 80 yards total offense during the first half--ND's first half figuers were 103 total yards--the visitors moved the ball without fumbles and without interceptions ("How he held onto that ball when 



and forced the Irish to mount a he hit the ground I'll never know," 
pair of sustained drives before said Parseghian. "It was a fan­
yielding single touchdowns in each tastic catch.") 
of the first two periods. Clements slithered across from 
The first Notre Dame tally, the one to make it 21-0, and two halfback Eric Penick's 20-yard minutes later the Irish were in sprint around left end, came with Navy's end zone again. Linebacker 
1:45 left in the opening frame and Gary Potempa forced Middie capped a 61-yard march. The tailback Ed Gilmore to fumble on score was set up by junior QB Tom the second play following the Clements, who scrambled 11 yards kickoff, and Reggie Barnett to the Navy 20 on fourth and six recovered for ND on the Navy 28. from the 31, and then turned the A clipping penalty delayed the ball over to his fleet halfback on scoring drive momentarily, but the next play. five plays after the fumble AI 
Clements finished the game as Samuel skirted left end for the ND's rushing leader with 66 yards ·fourth Irish touchdown of the in eight carries, and the elusive qb game. contribued a pair of big plays to Parseghian turned the gamethe second Irish touchdown drive-over to his number two offense 

. a 78-yard thurst midway through 
after that, and ND's substitutes the second period. played out the remainder of the 
A 30-yard-pass from Clements to game with six fumbles and two split end Pete Demmerle moved additional touchdowns. Cliff Notre Dame from its own 14 to the Brown passed nine yards to Willie 44 and, after four running plays Townsend for one seven-pointer,
moved ND to the Navy 43, and Frank Allocco handed off to 
Clements was off and running Tom Parise for another. 
again. This time he collected 20 Defensive end Jim Stock ac­yards and a first down at the counted for Notre Dame's otherMiddies' 18, and frehsman two points by sacking Glenny,Alphonse Hunter blasted around Navy's quarterback, for a safetyright end for the score four plays on the third play of the final period.
later. The Irish lost the apportunity But the Middies answered 
for a third touchdown when Stock's safety by striking for their 
Clemnts' pass to Art Best was only TD of the afternoon. Fresh­intercepted just before in­man Tim Simon fumbled John termission at the Navy five, but the Stufflebeem 's free kick after the first four minutes of the third two pointer, and Navy recovered quarter made interception a on the ND 25. matter of small consequence. Glenny whipped a pinpoint 
"We felt all along that we could touchdown pass to receiver Larry do all right agianst them," said Van Loan on the next play. "Our offensive captain Frank Pmarico, running game just wouldn't go "but we knew that Navy was anywhere, so we went to the air," capable of playing against really said the Middie QB. good competition. As the game 
"I did have time to look for my wor on, though, we were confident primary receiver, but had to read that we could score. It was just a their defense right away and theyquestion of getting it all together. 
never left me time to look for a "And in the second half it just secondary. We've playedseemed like or whole offensive Michigan, Penn State, and Notre team had more spring, more life. 
Dame,andall of them belong in the 
We were sprinting up the line and top five in the country."
then back to the huddle agin, and "Notre Dame is as good a team 
they just weren't able to keep up as we have played this year,"witn us." echoed George Welsh, the NavyThat Navy was going to have coach. "I certainly believe theytrouble "keeping up" became belong in the top five in the 
apparent on the fourth play of the nation." second half, when linebacker Greg The Irish have been in the topCollins' acrobatic interception of fivesince lastweek's big win over AI Glenny's pass set the Irish up on Southern Cal, and will put their the Middie 19. Clements threw to ranking and their ambitions on the 
Demmerle on the next play, and line next Saturday, when theythe junior receiver made a diving, journey to Pittsburgh to play the lung'ing catch on the Navy one. rejuvenated Pitt Panthers. 




OBSERVER 
SPORTS 
Air Force ticket program begins today at ACC 
Notre Dame and St. Mary's If you gave up your ticket for the students desiring an Air Force Navy game for the Neighborhood ticket must report to the Ticket Study Program, you must turn in Window on the second floor of the the receipt and show your ID. One 
A.C.C. according to the following student may present four (4) ID schedule: cards and submit four (4) tickets 
Seniors, today; Nov. &­and-or receipts for adjacentJuniors, Graduate and Law seating. The Air Force ticket costs Students; Nov. 7-sophomores. 
are payable when you pick up the 
ticket: Nov. 8-Freshmen; Nov. 9-ND .undergrads, no charge; 
First half action: Hunter swivels through Navy's defensive line, and QB Tom Clements runs Married students desiring tickets St. Mary's student, $5.00; ND gradI the quarterback option play• for themselves and spouses. When and law student, $3.00; spouse of reporting, you must present your Nd student, $3.00. Ticket window
.i 
ID card and also tum in the·4-game ho.urseachdayare9a.m. to4p.m.,
Sports photos by Joe Raymond 
ticket issued to you in September. including the lunch hour. 



