On The Inside 
Hesburgh talk ... page 3 Lette•·s to the Editor ... page 6 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VIII, No. 35 Monday, October 29, 1973 
Irish 23, Trojans 14 
by Vic Dorr Sports Editor 

Another post-game visitor elbowed his way into the Southern California locker-room, slamming the door behind him as he entered. 
Moments earlier, the room had been alive with noise-the noise of a tumultuous celebration which still raged in the north end zone of Notre Dame Stadium, and the noise of the exhuberant Irish locker-room, only thirty yards removed from the Trojan dressing area. 
But now the visitors' room was silent again--save for the hissing shower stalls and the subdued mumblings of coach John McKay's subdued football players. And as McKay faced his visitors,it was he who broke the spell of muffled silence. He broke it by humming a tune which had vibrated back and forth across Notre Dame Stadium many times during the afternoon: the Notre Dame Victory March. 
"There is," he told his surprised listeners, "nothing else to hum." 
And the Trojans' veteran coach, who had kust been defeated for the first time in 23 games, was right. There was nothing else to hum. USC's own fight song,"Fight On," had been used just twice during the rainy, soggy afternoon, and had garnered the high­powered Trojans just 14 points. The Irish, on the other hand, cashed in on three Bob Thomas field goals and two overland touchdowns--one a one-step affair by QB Tom Clements, the other a long-distance jaunt by Eric Penick--and notched 23 points as they defeated the fifth-ranked Trojans for the first time since 1966. 
And USC, an opponent which has tormented past Irish teams by piling up early and insurmountable margins, led only once during the ball game. That one lead was a 7-3 first period spread which followed An­thony Davis' one-yard touchdown, but the Irish rallied to erase that margin before the half ended on Thomas 33-yard field goal and Clements' one-yard leap. 
"Notre Dame won the game," observed the Southern Cal coach. "That's it. Theywerewell-prepared, and they outplayed us--which is the name of the game. They had the ball much more than we did. And when we got the ball had a lot to do with our offensive performance." 
The "offensive performance" McKay mentioned was the Trojan's worst showing of the half-completed season. USC gained only 243 yards against the fired-up Irish defense, and only 68 of these yards came from the ground attack which humbled the Irish in last year's encounter. 
Tailback Anthony Davis scored the first Southern Cal touchdown, but was held in check after his one­yard scoring sweep midway through the first period. Davis finished the game with 55 yards in 19 carries, but his highly-touted stablemate, flanker Lynn Swann,was somewhat more successful. 
Swann garnered 85 yards on five receptions, and put the Trojans back into the game in the third period, after Eric Penick's 85-yard explosion had given Notre Dame a 20-7 lead. 
Swann spear-headed USC's drive to an answering touchdown by snagging three passes during a 70-yard march. His final reception during that drive covered the last 27 yards to pay dirt, and he earned the touch­down by outleaping sophomore cornerback Tom Lopienski and grabbing Pat Haden's looping pass at the right flag. Lopienski had entered the game after 
Reg Barnett had been ejected for McKay.  roughing  J.K.  
"Notre  Dame  was  really  high,"  admitted  the  

talented Trojan. "It was a very emotional game. As for their crowd, the noise did hurt me when I was flanked out as far as hearing Pat's (Haden) signals­but we came into the game thinking we could beat their coverage one-on-one and I think we did." 
The Trojans did gain 185 passing yards against ND, but the USC attack was unable to generate anything after Swann's touchdown reception. Only three times during the final 25 minutes of play did Southern Cal's offense penetrate Notre Dame territory, and on each occasion the Irish defense forced turnovers which sealed SC's fate. 
The Trojans drove to the Irish 20 early in the final period, but Anthony Davis fumbled while trying a line plunge on second-and five, and Lopienski covered the ball for ND with 9:12 remaining. McKay's squad also drove past midfield on its next possession-but only fleetingly. Haden's 23-yard pass to J .K. McKay carried well into Notre Dame territory, but the little split end was mugged by Luther Bradley and Mike Townsend and lost touch with the ball on the Irish 40, where linebacker Greg Collins recovered. 
USC's last offensive thrust followed Tom Clements' fumble at midfield with just under three minutes remaining. Haden took to the air immediately, but his first;down bomb intended for McKay was intercepted by freshman Luther Bradley and the Irish victory was assured with 2:36 left to play. 
Four turnovers haunted the Trojan offense, but the Irish, with the exception of Clement's bobble late in the game, played error-free football. And when Notre Dame placekicker Bob Thomas drilled his third of three field goals to give the Irish a 23-14lead with just over 15 minutes left to play, Notre Dame's "Seven Year Itch" had been scratched to everyone's satisfaction. 
"I am tremendously proud of this football team of ours," beamed ND head coach Ara Parseghian,"and we are delighted to have this game ball. Because Southern Cal's 23-game streak began here at Notre Dame, I think it is appropriate that it has ended here as well. 
"Southern j::al played great football during that streak and they did so today, but our kids put forth a tremendous effort today and they deserved to win. They were "up" all week, and they remembered last year's 45 points by Southern Cal and the six touch­downs by Anthony Davis." 
The victory over the Trojans left the Irish 6-0 for the first time since 1970. The lost was the first of the year for McKay's squad, which also counts five wins and a 7­7 tie with Oklahoma on its '73 slate. 


A wistful Trojan cheerleader and a gleeful Ara Parseghian mirror contrasting emotions as the clock runs out in Saturday's NO-USC game. Notre Dame won the game, 23-14, and ended six years of Trojan domination in the fabled intersectional series. 
another game story 
on page eight 
1. the observer Monday, October 29. 197:l 
Hesburgh urges 
world briefs 
students to support 
WASHINGTON <UPI)--President j\.jJxon raced a rough week in Congress, including a hearing on impeachment procedures, 

ticket exchange
another at which fired Watergate prosecutor Archibald Cox will testify and a return to duty of Sen. Sam J. Ervin Jr.'s Watergate 
In a letter to the Notre Damecommittee. 
stu<:{ent body, University President Attempts also were expected on the floors of both chambers Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C.,
to enact over Nixon's vetoes, two bills he opposes. One limits a urges all students to participate in president's power to make war and the other insists that the U.S. 
the Football Ticket ExchangeInformation Agency give Congress information it deems Pr?gram, which is run by theconfidential. 
Neighborhood Study-Help Tutoring AUSTIN, Tex. <UPI)--Former Treasury Secretary John B. 
Program, a student volunteer
Connally said Sunday President Nixon owes the country a better program aimed at helping Southexplanation than he gave for firing Watergate prosecutor Ar­Bend children. On Nov. 3, studentchibald Cox, and Nixon should have turned over the Watergatf> volunteers in the program havetapes a month ago. , 
asked that ND-SMC students
BELFAST (UPI}--Gunmen shot a British soldier to death donate their student tickets to theSunday outside the police station of Crossmaglen, County Ar­ND-Navy gootball game, so thatn_lagh, near the Irish border, the army said. Earlier, guerrillas the South Bend children might usefired a Soviet made rocket and machineguns into a British them. The following is the letter by army post in Belfast but caused no casualties. 
Fr. Hesburgh:

A British army spokesman said the soldier was hit by a burst of shots fired at a patrol guarding a woking party of army engineers in the border village, about 48 miles south-west of 
Dear Notre Dame Students:Belfast. 

During the past several years 1SAN DIEGO, Calif. (UPI}--A mountain brush fire set by an have been extremely proud of thearsonist raced "faster than you could run" through 8,000 acres, students of Notre Dame and Saintdestroyed 15structures and forced evacuation of a retirement Mary's for their concern andvillage 50 miles east of San Diego, state and federal officials said participation in the large numberSunday. 
of volunteer programs that areThe blaze in the Boulder Oaks area of California's Cleveland based on this campus. I have been National Forest was whipped by 70 m.p.h. winds Saturday. 
especially pleased with the successFirefighters said it was about 40 per cent contained Sunday, but of the Football Ticket Exchangemore than 1,000 men were on the lines as it burned in a south­Program run by the Neighborhood westerly direction. 
Study-Help Tutoring Program for benefit •of many

an campus laday 
South Bend youngsters. Once in 1936 when I was a student here I had to give up my ticket to a Not~e ~arne-Minnesota game and I know 
9 a.m.-5 p.m., peace cops and vista representatives taking 
1t really costs something. You'll
applications for action, mem. lib. lobby 
remember it with pride some 37
4, 7, ~n? 10 p.m., shakespeare film series, "henry v," eng. aud., 
years later, I assure you.
adm1ss1on: free 

This November 3rd, the Notre
7 p.m., meetin_g, first of the year for fencers, fencing gym, ace 
Dame-Navy game will mark the
7 p.m., meetmg, nd-smc childrens' theatre, little theatre, 
f?urth year of the project and I
moreau hall, smc 

SI~cerely hope that student support 
7:30p.m., health careers night II, professions represented: oral 
will be as strong as it has been in
surgery, peridontia, orthodontia, hospital administration 
each of the three previous years.
galvin life science bldg. aud. · 
As President of the University, I
B p.m., l~cture, "congress and post-vietnam foreign policy," 
~ncourage all students to take part
prof. ferdmand a. hermens, lib aud., open to the public 
m th~ p_rogram in some way, either 
B p.m., meeting, celtic society, international room, basement of 
by. giVIng up their ticket, by of­
Iafortune 

fenng to provide tansportation or by supervising children at 'the game. I believe that this ex­pression of selflessness on the part of the students is a great credit to the University and reflects in no small way the spirit of sensitivity to others that has enabled the 
'Impeach Nixon' 


petition to Brademas 
people here to make Notre Dame a community of truly concernedby Valerie Zurblis start at the House of Represen­individuals.
Staff Reporter 

tatives, Brademas is the man to
Rick Smith, employee of Pan­contact. Smith's reasoning was Ever devotedly in Notre Dame.
dor_a:s Books, has beencirculatinga that a representative would be Father Theodore M. Hesburgh,petitiOn for the impeachment of 
more likely to listen to the people 
c.s.c.
President Nixon. Smith com­he represents concerning im­Presidentmented that he felt something peachment motions.
should be done and there didn't seem to be much reaction from the South Bend community or the Notre Dame campus. Anyone entering the store could sign his petition. 
Smith had over 100 names on the list when he mailed it Sunday to Representative John Brademas of Indiana. Smith hoped that when Brademas receives the petition he'll know that people are vocal and take a strong enough interest in their government to sign the petition. 
Since impeachment proceedings 
Charter Group 

Flight to Orient 
call Toll Free 

(800) 227-1969 (U.S. 
except California) 
-in the halls (ND&SMC)between llam and 2pm -in Campus Ministry
(800) 982-5827 
-in the post office (California only) -in the dining halls 
If you plan a trip to Ja~an, Hong Kong & ~nent, make sure . 
Tonight from 10 to 12 the cards will be sold in Flanner
g1v7 us a call -a big 
a.n<;J i·-p Regin~ ••~oly·tCross,;LeMans,\and McCandles~
·,, l"

savmgs. ,.· . 
"at'SMC , ~ 1 •. • , •.· • • · 
)

~ 
i' "' • • ~ •. 

Sails each September & February. 
This is the way you've always wanted to learn ... and should. Combine accredited study with a fascinating semester of travel to Africa, Austral­asia, the Orient, and the Americas. Over 8500 students from 450 colleges have already participated. Financial aid is available. Write now for free catalog: 
Chapman College Orange, CA 92666 
Saint Mary's & Notre Dame Students eligible for 
STUDENT TEACHING 
during the 2nd semester 1973-7 4 should apply in Room 320, Madeleva 
Application deadline -Friday, November 2 
Saturdav Nov. 10 at 8:00 




PaulSimon 
with Uruballlba and 
'llleJesse DixsonSingers 

Tickets for the above performances are $5.50, 4.50, ; 3.00 and are ~n. sale.now,.at. the AC~ ,Ticket Office 1 <Gate 10) and the Student Untof1 Tit)<et Office. Good , seats are still availab JiQth :sho.ws! :.: 
... /. ! (.';; , • <\ r • t, • .,,. 1 

... -----.. -. -..... -.or.-.. ;.;.;..~ .... .,.,. .. .., •• .,,. ••• ". 
)> ·' ....... ,. .... .. ~ ... ,, ''· "" • ' ..... "" 

Grace hall visit 
Hesburgh praises CILA 

by Ted Guth 
Staff Reporter 

Calling CILA "one of the most exciting projects here on campus, because they don't just talk about things, they go out and do them," Father Theodore Hesburgh commented both on the organization and upon his view of the world last night in Grace Hall. 
CILA, founded thirteen years ago, attempts to harness the energies of Notre Dame students interested in helping the un­derdeveloped nations of the world. During the past years CILA has had summer projects in countries such as Peru, Mexico, Haiti, Columbia, and Chile, working on projects like building schools, staffing homes for the aged, and supplementing a medical staff in a hospital. 
'CILA is attempting to raise the money to support its summer programs through Christmas card sales in the halls during the next two weeks. 
Father Hesburgh praised the work of the organization, not only for the effect it had in it's various projects around the world, but more importantly, in the attitudes it changed in the volunteers. 
In fact, Hesburgh felt that "one of the greatest things for your education, living in the richest part of the world, is to see the poor parts of the world." 
He compared the world to a 
spaceship with a crew of five and 
noted that one of the crew mem­
bers "the United States, Western 
Europe, and to a lesser extent 
Japan, has control of SOper cent of 
the resources-and that percentage 
is growing." 
"We spent more on armaments­
$203 billion--that the others spent 
on everything. For one-tenth of the 
military budget I could wipe out 
illiteracy in the world," he 
•

Nixon rejects nominee 
for special 
NEW YORK <UPil--President Nixon has rejected the first 
Auction held for United Way 
by .Judy Petersen Staff Reporter An auction will be held on Wednesday, Oct. 31, from 4:30-6:15 
p.m. in the St. Mary's Dining Hall to kick-off the 1973 United Way Campaign. 
South Bend and Mishawaka merchants are donating goods to 
be auctioned off. Saga will donate r--:--.----....,----.......----. 
food and candy to the drive and will also provide a set for the
auction. Students are asked to dress for the Halloween occasion and to bring plenty of money. 
The United Way has set as their goal, $1 per student. The cam­paign will continue through November or until the goal is reached. 
Campaign Director Marty Kabbes is hoping for a more successful drive this year than last year's effort which netted only $12 
Father Hesburgh, speaking in Grace Hall, praised CILA for its work with underdeveloped nations. {Staff photo by Joe 
Raymond) 

asserted. 
Asked what students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's could do, Hesburgh replied, "I think what you need is to see it. First, to get interested, second to get in­formation. You've got to learn about the anguishes of mankind." 
Students interested in CILA should contact Mike Maguire (3584), Joe Marino (233-1089), Mary Bekan (6766), or Jerry McCarthy (233-7854). 

prosecutor 
nominee offered by Acting At­torney Genral Robert Bork to replace Archibald Cox as the administration's special Watergate prosecutor, Time magazine reported Sunday. 
The magazine said Nixon rejected the man "apparently on the ground of his political lean­nings." 
"Bork had not even been inquiring into the politics of his nominee," the magazine reported, "on the assumption that after all that has happened Nixon would not dare insert politics into his choice." 
d
en o~a:s 

241 Dixieway North 1 mi. north of ND 
Guitars Accessories
$ 

Music Instruction 
' 

Everything for the guitarist
from St. Mary's students. 
WORK OVERSEAS 
All trades, skills and professions I Students and Graduates F
Mae emae1 
Higher pay, no taxes, travel to Australia, Europe, So. and Central America, Africa and So. East Asia. Write for our brochure: 
• . . • • • 'J . 
;.. :-::' : ~: Wo~I~Wjqe ;~tH~erif,QJ?por1untfic;!s· ,· ._., ·~ ·,:-:
• • • • , . . . . p .1--\ eo.v l ,Sc . . . 
, .v.. , ~~, .. ,. et ...t'!'!.lie,. t ··~ ···~~..... ,,_.-,,.
.,f' 

·.~ .. ~~ ..........10ls...ca.·mlllt)·.ntili"'e6;.:.•••-••••-...............'1'..........~-!'·-,.·'·' · · · Thousand ~k~ Calif. 913~ 
i;t. 
~' 
,__., 

planning a \W(kling'! 
caiJ Th' 234-5822 
\Wddin~ Phnto¢,rnphtlf' 
234-5822 MICHAEL LONIER 
~~ 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester e)(cept vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S8 per semester ($14 per year) from The Observer Bo)( Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, lllotre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
the observer 
3

~.YL~er 29 1973 
Attn: Reporters Day Editors, Copy Editors 
OBSERVER NEWS MEETING 

tomorrow -Lafortune 2D -7:OOpm 
Attendance Required 
New reporters invited 


he way to buy the insurance you need but may feel you can't afford. 
( 

For wrther information call: 33-3104. Talk to: Bob Roemer

Bob Roemer 
Class of '73 

The Mutual Life Insurance Company Of New York 

M0NY 
MUTUAL Of NEW YORK 


Knights of Columbus 
-MEETING­

Monday-Oct. 29 -7 p.m. 
refreshments served 

guest speaker·Coach Digger Phelps 


Shakespeare Film Series 
presents 

Sir Laurence Olivier 
starring in 



HENRY V 
"Best Shakespearean film ever made .. 
ENGINEERING: AUDITORIUM MONDAY OCT. 29 
. . '.,. 


.l.O m·· · 
p ' -------·­

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Art Ferranti Executive Editor 
Lee Gentine Business Manager 
Monday, October 29, 1973 

'The Time' Came 
Saturday afternoon, one of the great moments in Notre Dame athletic history occured. It's the kind of day that years from now our grandchildren will talk about. Perhaps Eric Penick's 85-yard dash won't be remembered in the same hushed tones as the time that Dorais stepped behind the center and threw the first forward pass, but nonetheless it will be remembered. 
Everyone who was there participated in a little bit of history. People often say that you should not glorify athletics in such terms, but this case is an exception. 
A Poor Psych-up 
The massive crowd that showed up Friday night for the USC rally was treated to an exciting time but one that was plagued by a lack of foresight on the part of the organizers. 
It is uncertain whether they anticipated the size of the crowd or their boisterousness. 
But even if they did, the organizers came unprepared. The sound system was not nearly large enough for the enitre crowd to hear. The lack of volume in the system and its late arrival caused much of the milling, shouting, and shoving that punctuated the beginning of the ga-thering. 
Likewise, they did not adequately prepare the area for the rally. The sec-
WELL, flRST LET ME EMPHAS1lE MY COMPLETE FAITH IN ~UDGE SJRICA 
(OOSO AGREAT JUR\ST (CLICK) .... WHY GOOD MORNING, BEBE (PNJSE)
I Wf.S JUST SITTING HERE ffilNKING (CLICK) THAT OLD (CLICK) JUI:GE Sl '{ES, RlCHAAD, AWONDERFUL HUMAN 
M cl1lcP
HI, PAOlI Jt/STCAME 
Of~ I8EG 
~ YOtiR PAROON? 

YOI/ CAME 8ACK YARO! 
YOf/ RAK& TH/3 
HOME TO HUP? 
I 
I 

Jerry Lutkus Editor-in-Chief  Dan Barrett Executive Editor  
NEWS:  283-1715  
EDITORIALS:  283-8661  John Kloos  
BUSINESS:  283-7471  Advertising Manager.  

The Irish squad executed to perfection making only one major error and that was a fumble late in the game that was quickly erradicated by a matching SC miscue. 
It was the game that Notre Dame has waited for for 7long years. It was a game that the team has waited for one year. And it was a game that Ara must have been waiting a very long time for. 
Congratulations to Ara and the entire Fighting Irish squad. The Editorial Board 
tion roped off for the band should have been policed by a student marshall's group before the band was to arrive so that all the students who crowded up to the stage did not have to be pushed back. Once the students crowded up, their excitement added to the lack of a sound system made it nearly impossible to clear the area to let the band in. 
The rally committee has only one rally left and it won't be of the magnitude that this one was. So, they cannot really learn from their mistakes. However, those students who are underclassmen can remember what happened Friday and use that knowledge should a rally equal to Friday's ever be held again. 
Jerry Lutkus 
A(CLICK) GREAT GUY S(CLJC~) (PAUSE) .... fR,WHY I ALWAYS SAID (PAUSE).... 
~--~------------­
the observer


~~»~ 
t.EAVE5, f IT5A 6/RL, ()AfJ! 10 
Night Editor: Bill Brink 

THEN, RIGHT? RAK£7H& 
Assistant Night Editor: Dan Sanchez 

SOME POOR GIRL .• 
tEAVE5! Layout: Marlene Zloza, Mike Kulczcki Day Editor: Mary Janca
I 
)) Copy Editor: Rick Thues 
Typists: Connie Fourre, Howard Halle, Carole Rechtensteiner HAL 0 perator: Howard Halle 
Picture Screener: Jerome Phillips Night Controller: Joe Abell 

Miles Ta Cia... 

The Need To Win 

butch ward 
After living through the past three days here on the Notre Dame 
campus, one would have to say with a certain assurity, "we needed 
that." 
It was electric. It was like groping in the dark for the light switch 
and finding it exactly where it was supposed to be. It was getting 
psyched and being able to stay that way until one's body said to stop. 
Because we won. We said we would, and we did. We were sure like 
we had been so many times before, only this time we won. And after 
watching this campus savor that victory with a passion heretofore 
unknown to the present student body, there's only one thing to say. 
We needed that. 
We needed to scream and plead and be answered and be proud. We 
needed to see that streaking blue jersey leaving a trail of helpless 
pursuers lying scattered over 85 yards of gridiron. We needed to hear 
the Victory March and know that it was saluting more than a heart­
filled effort. 
We needed to return to the South Quad and find signs that 
represented accomplished goals instead of bursted dreams. 
We had been cocky when history warned us against it. We risked 
psyching up when we knew that awful sensation of falling flat. We had 
dared to speak of victory when one afternoon of competition could 
make winning next year seem even more impossible. 
And somehow, as the new week begins and we prepare to make the 
past weekend's accomplishments the cornerstone for attaining 
greater heights in the weeks to come, some quieter thoughts reveal an 
often overlooked fact. 
The Rock was indeed right when he spoke of athletics contributing definite value to the growth of the entire man. 
There was something for all of us to experience during the past 
weekend, something that transcended the extreme joy and satisfac­
tion of winning. Something about living. 
Something about throwing our whole selves into life even at the risk of disappointment. Even at the risk of falling. Something about seeing life as offering the chance to be an integral part of the ultimate victory. But offering no guarantees. 
But there were no guarantees offered any of us prior to Saturday's game. No assurances that all of the anticipation would be rewarded with ecstatic jcy instead of painful disappointment. 
And yet we all took the risk. We hopped in, feet first, ·and sub­merged our whole selves with all of our precious visions of success into theabilities ofthose blue-jerseyed athletes. Which not only says a lot about our willingness to risk disappointment for the sake of possible success, but also about the ability to trust our feelings with the abilities of others. 
We proved to ourselves that we can achieve tremendous satisfaction if we dare to get totally involved, and we added the comfort of knowing that others can be trusted with helping us achieve that satisfaction. 
And we all needed that. 
But we need that every day. We need to be reminded that the celebration wouldn't have been nearly_ as fulfilling had the prior psych-up not occurred and involved each of us entirely. And all of us together. 
Every one of us can learn these lessons from the contest held Saturday. But to leave those lessons on the athletic field would be tragic. To pret_end that the victory gained Saturday was more precious than the one available through living life to the fullest would be foolish. 
Actually, the victory of life cannot be compared to the one achieved Saturday. But neither can the risks of defeat. And so life must be approached as realistically as history reminded us. to approach Saturday's game. 
But let us not confuse a realistic outlook with a defeatest or a com­
placent one. Let us not allow the risk to overshadow the potential. Let 
us place fear in its proper perspective with the anticipation of 
fulfillment. 
Let us celebrate our abilities rather than our shortcomings. Let us remember that we can place our trust in others to carry the ball, but only once we have realized our place in the overall game plan. 
For it wasn't only the team that benefited by Saturday's win; every person in the stadium who risked the heartaches, threw himself into the frenzy of competition, joined his cause with that of every other member of that Notre Dame family, every one of us played a part. 
And therefore, we can all share the victory, and grow from the experience. 
We all dreamed, and because those dreams came true, we may all dare to dream again. ·Ve all trusted, and because our trust was upheld, we may all dare trust again. We all dared to get involved, and because the involvement led to fulfillment, we may all dare to get involved again. Congratulations, Notre Dame. we all needed that. 

r 
r 
• 
,r f 
•I 
• 

Monday, October 29, 1973 the observer 
the right time but the wrong place 
The wholesome, natural simplicity and charm of sonorous harmony filled the ears of a disappointed capacity crowd Saturday at the Carpenters concert. With such tonal perfection , Mancini style and vast professionalism at their control the Car­penters' lack of imagination was a tremendous disappointment. 
With the exception of seemingly broken clarinet reed, a napping sound man and a charming but off-key children's choir the music qualty was definitely above par. Karen Carpenter's voice was in excellent tune. Her sheet-music style and almost unnatural clarity was entertaining in a purely audio sense. 
The group is based almost entirely on a 
pseudo-jazz-rhythm. Although jazz in 
nature Karen enter and 
The greatest detective film ever produced comes to the television screen this Thursday night at nine on 22. Steve McQueen stars as BulJitt, the San Francisco based detective lieutenant who finally unravels a mystery of Mafia (called the organization in the film) doublecross amid violent murders and three suspense filled chase sequences that have become not only the classics of the genre but also the paradigms for all future such scenes. And all said scenes pale before those of Bullitt. For Bullitt without any action would be The Maltese Falcon (the once greatest detective film, now, in this writer's opinion, the second greatest mystery film) and Bullitt without a car chase would be another The Big Sleep (the third greatest detective film). Incidentally, both of the old films mentioned starred Humphry Bogart, in the former as San Francisco detective Sam Spade (based on the novel of the same name by Dashiell Hammett) and in the latter as the Raymond Chandler detective Phillip Marlow. It is no wonder then that McQueen be compared to Bogart although I stand by the conviction that Bogey is inimitable. 
Despite the first chase in the hospital (the cameras were there for three months) and the final scenes in the S.F. airport, the autochase stands out in everyone's mind as the highlight of the film. Well, I hate to shatter anyone's images, but for the record the approximately fifteen minute sequence took almost two weeks to film and sup­posedly covered streets that led through the city. Hardly half the streets that appeared to connect do and if you can contain your suspense enough to look for detail, the cars careen past the same green Volkswagon three times (you can take my word on that; I've seen the film five times). McQueen did his own driving and stuntwork. 
As for the rest of the film, it is suggested that one pays close attention to the final office scenes after a telephoto comes in. If you sneeze, you may miss the plot's ex-drummer O'Brien's drums lack the im­provison that jazz demands. My hat, however, was momentarily off to O'Brien during the song "Mr. Guder" when he played complex synchronized drumming with Karen. There were no apparent mistakes; again a sign of extensive professionalsim. Unfortunately a great imaginative group is not built on un­changing rhythmic progressions. 
Because of the Carpenters' lack of musical complexities they were quite at home with an oldies medley. The medley, from their new album Now and Then, allowed the Carpenters to rely heavily on a unique comedy-nostalgia combination. 
The comedy side of the concert was in­
troduced by the impressionist team of Skiles 
and Henderson. Pete Henderson led the 
warm-up show with a Dan Rowen 
"straight" routine. Skiles complemented 
Henderson with vocal sound effects ranging 
Little Bifd Screen 


bullitt 
.art ferranti 
r. thomas thues 
Peluso recieved the standing ovation his talent demanded. 
Not to ignore the tremendous popularity that the Carpenters enjoy, there is a time and place for their music. The ACC cannot provide the atmosphere of purity and romanticism that emanates from their 1music. Perhaps the Carpenters' music can find a home at Carnegie Hall or the Dorothy Chandler Pavillion where couples can sit back and cuddle up to the sound of "We've only just Begun." 
In general, the Carpenters at Notre Dame are best enjoyed in the quiet privacy of a shaded dorm room listening to Now and Then with your Home Town Honey. 



planation. Robert Vaughn is cast as a politician with enough ambition to match his vocabulary and who has Bullitt assigned with two other detectives to guard a Mafia informant (the scenes in which the in­formant is shot-gunned may be judiciously edited). Don Gordon plays Bullitt's friend; Simon Oakland, his boss; Norman Fell, the politico's cop friend; and Jacqueline Bisset is his girl friend. Robert Duvall has a small part as a taxi-cab driver. The film begins at a slow clip, but after the first shooting it is sheer dynamite. 
On the other side of the coin, Cactus Flower is to be rerun tonight on NBC at nine. 
Indiana has now joined the rest of the world in their Standard Time schedules so everything will be one hour later on TV than 
schedules previous to this week). Walter Matthau plays a crooked dentist who falls for Goldie Hawn (who copped an Oscar hr this, her first feature film) while Ingrid Bergman invades the "scene" in an attempt to get Matthau back. The comedy also features Jack Weston in a few classic scenes and Rick Lenz (the young sheriff in "Hec Ramsey") as Goldie's true boyfriend. Of course, there's always the Kansas City Chiefs against the Buffalo Bills on ABC's pro-football extravaganza tonight, although it cannot come anywhere near Saturday's tromp of the Trojans. 
Elsewhere, it's pretty quiet on the Western Front. Valdez is Coming premieres next Sunday night. This violent oater stars Burt Lancaster as a revenge­minded cowboy out to get the nasty guys who did him wrong. Susan Clark is also on hand to add the romantic interest. The Bridge at Remagen this Saturday is a war film with a curious twist. Most of the action is seen from the German side as the Third Reich prepares to fight its last battle at the Remagen Bridge. Ben Gazzara, George Segal, Robert Vaughn, E.G. Marshall, and Bradford Dillman star in this film that was made during the Czech upheaval there. It from bird noises to automobile sounds. 
Introducing the musical aspect of the concert Skiles played a vaudevillish lead on the bicycle pump to the piano ac­companiment of Henderson 'fhe team was 
truly professional and added a particularly talented dimension to the concert. Their standing ovation was well deserved. 
The Carpenters were not wftllout their talented moments. The oldies medley, featuring Henderson singing, was the highlight of the show. Their rendition of the Hondells evoked strains of nostalgia. It was as if the audience was transported back to a downtown Soda Shoppe in the late 50's: the group sounded like a 1958 Werlitzer Juke 
Box. 

The talent of Tony Peluso, lead guitarest, was an enjoyable change of pace. His im­provision on Chuck Berry's "Johnny B. Goode" was only surpassed by his D. J. commentary during the oldies medley. 
has some good camera shots as the Allies try to save the bridge before Vaughn and his fellow Nazis can destroy it. 
On the made-for-TV scene, Arthur Hill ("Owen Marshall") must survive a desert after being stranded and left to die by his wife, Diana Muldaur (currently "McCloud's" girlfriend) and her lover, James Stacy, in Ordeal. Dean Jones cavorts with Barbara Eden as his ex-wife who has to put him and his current wife, Susanne Benton, up in her house in Guess Who's Sleeping in My Bed? Maybe if Hill from Tuesday night could get together with Eden on Wednesday night, we could resolve both plots. Oh, well ... 
On Saturday's late movie on 16 Alan Ladd, Jean Arthur, and Van Heflin star in the classic (that is three times I have used that word this week) . Western Shane. Ladd plays the gunfighter trying to make a go of it legally on Heflin's ranch. Brandon DeWilde <killed a few years ago in an auto wreck) plays the boy who looks up to Shane and Jack Palance plays the evil gunfighter Jack Wilson with whom Shane has to have a showdown. (Incidentally, Palance's Wilson appears to be the prototype for Stan Lynde's founded and speculative trivia for those who care.) Sunday's 16 late movie has Paul Newman in Hud. This excellent film centers on Newman's hostility for his highly prin­cipled father (Melvin Douglas) and the rebellion which follows. Patricia Neal won an Oscar for her performance as the weary maid. Channel 16 scores again for the best ··n local movie programming. 
Specials and Other Nonsense: Another ·'Shaft" episode pre-empts the CBS Tuesday movie this week. Barbra Striesand has her first special of the season airing Friday at nine on 11 co-starring with Ray Charles. Lily Tomlin repeats some of her comic characters while dipping into some dramatic moments in "Lily" following Striesand same day, same channel. Her guests are Richard Pryor as a drug addict and Alan Aida, in one skit as her estranged husband. Quite a change for Miss Tomlin. 
Trivia Question This question comes from Mr. Edward Holtcamp of Euclid, Ohio, who allowed me to mooch off of him and his family during the break. Thanks. Anyhow, his question. Who played the first movie Dr. Jekyll-Mr. Hyde and won an Oscar for it? 


• 
the observer Monday, October 29, 1973 
right of free expressio of opinion. that Ms. Cannon feels that she While Fred Graver's comments on knows all the rules and policies of former Vice President Spiro WSND when she is in no way
P.O. Box Q Agnew may not necessarily reflect connected with the station. the views of the 175 people who Ignorance of the facts is an ex­
work for WSND, we wholehear­tremely weak excuse for her un­
Impeachment Reiection 

Editor: 
With all due respect I must reject your mandate on the hn­peachment of the President. 
Comparing the mandate that ·e­elected Nixon with the mandate that has thus far arisen in favor of his impeachment is ludicrous. Be assured that if the same number of people that re-elected Mr. Nixon wanted him impeached, congressmen would this day be calling for his impeachment not solely for the crimes they 1-J?lieve him to have committed, but would also be making much of the thousands upon thousands of letter they would be receiving from citizens in their district or state. No such manner of affairs has risen. 
The charge that Mr. Nixon has acted above the law is untrue. Mr. Nixon has in all cases, and par­ticularly in the case of the Watergate tapes followed the law. He had appealed the decision that went against him to the Circuit Court of Appeals whereupon after their decision, not wanting to carry it any further he turned over the tapes. He exhausted nearly every constitutional means of preventing the ~ourt decision taking effect, and 1t was a lengthy process, but everything was strictly legal. 
The firing of Archibald Cox was just. Had Mr. Cox pursued his course by working with the evidence at hand and getting convictions on those that theywould easily have been attained, he might have gotten enough evidence to indeed bring the President to court, but he chose instead to bend to congressional pressure and to the press, and continued the warped line of in­vestigation characteristic of the Senate hearings which were aimed at the President and at the truth--in that order! He was in effect doing 
1othing about the legally solid 

matters of Watergate, but was off 
chasing a suspicion. 
As for Richardson and Ruckelshaus, since the beginning of our country comployees of the Executive Branch who refuse an :!:xecutive order have been fired. 
I agree that the President has 10t "weathered the storm" by 1anding over the tapes. If the apes do indeed contain evidence .gainst him, then he should be mpeached, ·but that they do ·ontain this evidence is not 

.Jetermined and until it is, it is grossly unfair to chastise him and accuse. 
The resolutions for im­
peachment introduced by congress 
are not valid. The majority of the 
Americans have not spoken for 
impeachment, and would rather 
let American justice take its 
course, which does not entail 
bringing anyone into court without 
solid evidence and the accusations 
against the President are at this 
point little better than speculation. 
It is indeed true that the 
President has raised suspicions as 
to his dereliction of duty, but they 
are just that--suspicions, and to my 
knowledge no person in America is 
ever dragged into court without 
solid evidence, which is non·· 
existent in this case. To impeach 
Richard Nixon for suspicion would 
be a greater debacle to American 
justice than any one man in anyone 
office could manage. 
Sincerely, Daniel J. Daily 
Singing Praise 
Editor: 
To the Notre Dame men in the Glee Club: a special thanks to you for last evening's command performance: You all were a terrific finale for a weekend that will long be remembered. 
Fondly, McCandless Hall SMC 
Forced Work: 
Bad Effects? 
Editor: 
Using volunteer work as a form 
of punishment reflects the good 
intentions of the hall presidents, 
but I feel such an idea would do 
more ·harm than good to the 
volunteer programs. The purpose 
of Logan Center, South Bend 
tutoring, and other ND-SMC 
volunteer programs is to help--to 
be a friend, teacher, or playmate 
to someone who needs such 
companionship. It can become 
something very personal. 
Now, suppose a child discovered that his buddy was spending Saturdays with him because that buddy was being disciplined by the University. If the child should realize this situation, it could seriously hurt him and hinder further efforts by true volunteers. Such a risk should not be taken for the goal of "constructive discipline." You just cannot in-


GUESS WHAT! 
Those old stereotypes about business education and business careers are gone. Today, you don't have to be an undergrad business major to have an attractive career in business. In fact, our intensive 11-month MBA program equips people for management po_sitions whos~ undergrad degrees range from sc1ence and engmeering to the Iibera I and fine arts. We'll be on campus: 
November 13, 1973 COME MEET US. THEN JOIN US. 
University of Pittsburg Graduate School of Business 
".·.. _-~~-'J!~C!~t ~areer Plannir19 _&. .. . 
'n ~···rf .. '.~,.t,-.-...i

Placement for __ ar.P.~!IJ ·'"eiJ · · ··· ·. __ 
elude children with discipline. 
Besides, has the HPC discussed its proposals with Fr. Schlaver, Director of Student Activities, or with any of the volunteer groups they intend to use? I would doubt it. I would also doubt that any of those volunteer groups would even consider such a proposal. Quoting Claude Devaney's article of Oc­tober 25, "By working with others who do not have the same privileges, it would make a person realize how lucky they were. She (Ms. Dodge) felt that this would help the individual more." The volunteers are not there to seek fulfillment for themselves. It's the other guy they're working for. That is why the HPC's proposal is faulty. However, the volunteer role may be a suitable alternative in special cases. If it could provide a new direction for the student with no direction perhaps his energies could help. Above all, though, the volunteer work would have to be the student's choice, not a direc­tive. Here, discipline would be replaced by orientation, a more constructive solution. 
If the HPC wants to spiritually elevate the violator through discipline, all well and good. Just make sure that the violator doesn't elevate himself by stepping on the feelings of the children he works with. 
Peace, Clint. Gibler MANASA -Volunteer Chairman Northern Indiana State Hospital and Developmental Disabilities Center 

Freedom of Speech 
Dear Editor: 
We are writing this letter in response to Jane Cannon's letter which appeared in the October 17 issue of The Observer. While we certainly have the capability of responding to her comments using WSND as a medium, we chose to respond via an open letter to the Observer. The reason for this is that our air time is too valuable to waste on an issue which obviously shows a great deal of ignorance on Ms. Cannon's part. 
It is the policy of WSND that any DJ may use the allotteed air time to comment on anything he or she wishes. The University supports 
and does not interfere with our programming. We believe in the tedly support his rights of free speech. If Ms. Cannon wants facts and news rather than opinion, WSND has news reports on the hour. To assume that an an­nouncer's personal opinions reflect the opinion of the entire radio station is ludicrous. Ms. Cannon obviously lacks knowledge of the workings of WSND. It is ridiculous and immature for Ms. Cannon to write off the entire station and the University of Notre Dame on the basis of listening to WSND for only one minute. It seems strange to us substantiated ramblings. In January of 1973, Ms. Cannon auditioned for a position on the sports staff of WSND, but due to the limits on the size of our staff, she was not accepted. If her petty cricisms of 175 dedicated volun­teers are her idea of "revenge," then that is what is truly "juvenile and bush-league." 

Sincerely, Some concerned members of the WSND staff 
SMC Student Govt. is sponsoring an 


AUCTION 
for United Way 
Wednesday Oct. 3 J 
SMC Dining Hall -during dinner Bring your money for a variety of items 

•••the off campus oHice is now selling 
Playboy Rolling Stone National Lampoon Psychology Today Cosmopolitan MS. 


AT COST 
Lower Level LaFortune, hours: Man, Wed, Fri -3 to 4 Tues. and Thurs. -11 to 12 
(Hours wi II be expanding soon) 


Barnaby's 
Late Nite 
Special!! 
every Monday thru Thurs. 9-12 p.m. 
pitcher beer $1.25 stein beer $.25 
...... f 

.. 1' ... 
·.., ... _ --. ' f
. ''.

I I I , ,' ~ 'I".. ... .. ~ f. t t 1~.' ., J~ t. I f • \ .J .1 't 1 , ,
,·.·(must ·b·e ·2·l) .'· 

t ·."'~~~'"ft"''"' ,,,.,,. .", ... '·'*il.,.,.4'!f..,d·1 •.... :·.~, .. -f.~~·~·~'J, 
, .. _......... __ ... _:: ~ _~ ~ ·no·~oupon neeae -~· .. · ;,~ ~.. , . .' · 
~--~~~~~~~~------~------------~ 
Monday, October 29, 1973 the observer 
Economics dept. 
Poll taken on Observer ad 
a total sample of 457 un­by Jeanne Murphy dergraduates, 387 male and 70Staff female. 
Are you offended by the ~­The purpose of the survey was to rated movie advertising that find out how many students read apears in The ObserverTV section The Observer, how many are of­every Thursday'? This question fended by XX-rated movie ad­appeared in a survey by the vertising in the school paper, and Economics Department how many wish to have the TV distributed on October 11 and 12, to section of The Observer discon-
India tour planned for Xmas vacation 
by Judy Rauenhorst S~aff Reporter "The Land of Sages", a three week, in-depth study tour of India, · b · 1 d b 
IS emg P anne Y Dr· Cyriac Pullapilly through St. Mary's
College.
Pullapilly, associate professor of history, said, "It is an extremely interesting and valuable trip and a good bargain. We will see a whole continent and cover nearly 10,000 miles, with all travel by air." 
The tour will leave by Swissair jet from Chicago on Wednesday, December 26 ,and will return Tuesday, January 15. Cities to be 
"The Taj Mahal, the Ajanta Caves, the Himalayan Peaks and many other cultural attractions will be seen while staying at luxury
hotels," said Pullapilly.
Cost of the tour is $1132.00 for students, and $1299.00 for adults. 
The tour price includes air tran­sportation, hotels, sightseeing and excursions, transfers, tips and taxis. A deposit of $100 per person is required at the time of registration. 
College credits are available in history, art, religious studies and political science for students who wish to combine pleasure with 
toured include Bombay, Auran-• study. These arrangements must babad, Jaipur, Delhi, Agra, be made with the particular Banaras, Calcutta, Madras and department in advance. 
Darjeeling. An optional one week tour is possible from January 14 to 20 if 15 people take part. This special
Dental careers excursion would include the cities of Madurai, Periyar, Cochin,featured in Bangalore and Mysore. A native of Kerala, India,VOCatiOn program Pullapilly would like to make the 
by Leanne Jacques Staff Reporter 

A Health Career Night, spon­sored by the Pre-Professional department, will be held tonight at 
7:30 in the Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium. This is the second of a series of lectures given by South Bend doctors and dentists. 
The first meeting, held October 24, centered on medicine. Osteopathy, general medicine, podiatry and optometry were the fields represented. Secretary of the Student Advisory Committee, Jim Napier, said, "Each speaker told of the advantages and disadvantages of their profession, the requirements and motivation involved and speculated on the future of their particular profession." 
Monday's program is primarily concerned with dentistry. Oral surgery, orthodontia,periodantics and hospital administration are the fields to be covered. 
The Pre-Professional depart­ment plans to continued the Health Career Night on an annual basis. 
tour an annual event. "Many people have expressed an interest this year and it is not only students," said Pullapilly. 
Anyone interested in the tour may contact Dr. Pullapilly at 284­4928 in 336 Madeleva. The registration deadline is November 10. 
tinued. 
The survey was conducted by 
Will Darbro, a graduate student in 
the Economics Department. 
Questionnaires were handed out 
in various buildings and on the 
first and second floors in the 
Library. 
Graduate students were ex­
cluded from the survey because it 
was found from a previous test 
survey that they were not daily 
readers of The Observer. 
The first question on the survey 
asked how often the students read 
The Observer. Seventy-seven per 
cent (352) of the total sample 457 
read The Observerdaily while 21.2 
per cent read it sometimes. Eight 
students polled, 1.8 per cent never 
read the student paper. 
The second question referred to XX-rated movie ads on the'back of The ObserverTV section. A total of 
7.9 per cent (36) students claim that these advertisements are offensive to them and sixty-seven percent (306) feel that they are not offensive. Twenty-two and a half percent 003) of the persons polled were indifferent to the ads while a small 2.6 percent (12) persons had no opinion. 
In the last question on the sur­vey, the pollsters wanted to know how many students want the TV guide section continued. Fifty­eight and nine-tenths percent (269) expressed a desire to continue the TV issue, 4.8 percent (22) would like to see the TV guide discon­tinued, 31.5 percent (144) were indifferent, and 4.8 percent (22) had no opinion. 
The percentages between the male and female answers were in most cases consistent, with the exception of the second question. Twenty percent 04) of the seventy girls polled find the XX-rated advertisements offensive whie a small 5.7 percent (22) of the 387 males questioned find these ads offensive. 
ND-SMC CHILDREN'S THEATER 
meeting: Monday  October 29  
7:00pm ALL INVITED  ST. MARY'S LITTLE THEATRE  

TICKET EXCHANCE PROGRAM 



NO-NAVY GAME NOV. 3 
Turn in tickets Tues., Wed., or Thurs. Second Floor Ticket Window ACC from 9am • 4pm 
(SMC girls may turn fix in during dinner at dining hall.) 
DRIVERS NEEDED • Short meeting for all who can drive tonight 7:OOpm Second Floor Lafortune. MONITORS NEEDED· Short meeting Tues. 7:00pm Second Floor Lafort"ne for ,all· .who are willing to su ervise .t;,hil~!!~ ..~.t...tt!e,..Qame. 
Snow Recaps $2295 
560-15 
Plus F.E.T: 


Premium 4 Ply NylonSnow Tires 
starts as low as $ 
1695 
Plus F.E.T. F78-14 Blackwalls 






20% off 
on all tail pipes,exhaust pipes and mufflers 
Discount Tire Service 50595 U.S. 3l North 
272-1023 
OPEN DAILY 'TILL 6, SAT. 'TILL 4 
:··ii''IG'M***M···: 
: WITH COUPON :



li;j:;;::l 
,: :~~ ~4c;~R ~-;yL~u;~RS.: 
• AIR COND. CARS $2 MORE , 1 : INCLUDES PLUGS • POINTS,: : CONDENSER, CHECK : 
!~~~:~cET~~!e~~~·;;~ ! 
:-::~·-··············--:~
. 
WITH COUPON : 
FROIT Ella!
ILI611EIT 
c-.: 
MOST • AMERICAN -~ : 
CARS '<('_.... :
.
.
.
. 
PARTS EXTRA 
. 
IF' NEEDED 
.
.
.......................... 
••·W.iilf.!d!+ri•!fiQ•i'f··~ 
WITH COUPON : 
BRAKE RELIIIIIIG !
. 
EXCEPT DISC : ~ BRAKES AND ' 

~-~;;::"1 
.
.
INCLUDES FULL 
INSPECTION • FLU 10 AND CLEAN, 

$444 
PLUS IISTIWTIOI 

CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 
NEED NAVY TIX. Judy 4970. 
Paperboy desperatly needs 4 Navy tix. Will pay$$ + trib. Call Henry 5851. 
Need 2-4 Ga Navy tix. If you're short on cash, I'm your friend call 232-2773. 
Need 2 Navy tix-call 3451. 
Need 2 GA Navy tix. 8761. 
Need 2 Navy tix north end zone. Call Jeff 1137. 
Need 4 GA Navy tix. Call Sue 6793. 
Need 2GAor stud tix for Navy. Will pay-4552. 
Need 3 GA Navy tix. CAll Celine 4680. Grazie. 
Need 4 GA Navy tix. Will pay. Call Joe 3274. 
FOR SALE 
MEERSCHAUM PIPES! Exceptional values per­sonalized service. Catalog. 
PNP Co. Box 444 Gaither­sburg, Md. 20760. 
Yamaha guitar FG­300(origina1 retail price $300) rosewood, inlaid pearl, ad­
justable bridge, hardshell case, excellent condition. Call David 8427. 
Guild bass guitar, good cond. dual (fender + guild) pick-up, semi·hard shell case, must sell, call Jim 1409. 
FOR ~ENT 
Rooms $40 mo. near. 233-1329. 
NOTICES 
Morrissey Loan Fund can loan up to $150 at 1per cent interest, 1 day waiting period. 
Basement of La Fortune. 11:15­
12:15 Mon..Fri. 
Will do typing: Term papers, manuscripts, etc. Call 233-6909. 
Intensive language traing in 
Hausa, WSwahill, Amharic, Wolof, Fon, Bariban, Thai. 
FREE. See the Peace Corps reps int the library lobby all week. Oct. 29-Nov. 2. 
L.OST•.'A'ND ·Fo·uN·D~.",' 
Gain valuable carreer ex­periecne through VISTA or Peace Corps . Programs offer College grads many op­portunities for experience employers demand. Getting a business, law math, science, economics, architecture, or liberal ares degree? See Peace Corps-VISTA reps in the Iibrary lobby Oct. 29-Nov.2. 
Upset with the employment dituation, yet still interested in teaching? If you have a degree in pe, business, math, science, home ec, French Spanish or English, contact the Peace Corps-VISTA reps in the library lobby Nov. 29-Nov. 2. 
If you grew up on a farm, know how to drive a tractor , re pair equipment, plant corn, raise Iivestock. Others need to know what you know. See the Peace Corps rep in the library lobby Oct. -29-Nov. 2. 
Sewing,  mending,  altering.  
Reasonalbe prices.  Call  Beth  
1298.  

Ski Aspen Jan. 5-12 $120. 
Deposit $20 La Fortune lobby Mon + Tues. 7pm or call 6575 or 1628. 
Typing Done: theses, papers, etc. Fast. Call Gloria 234-9765. 
TONY'S SHOE SHOP: Shoe repair-shoe slaes-watchbands­zippers-shoe care supplies-all types of leather repair. ON CAMPUS+ Behind Adm. Bldg. 
Used books at 50 per cent off list price this week only at pandor's Cliff+ monarch notes 2for .75. now open from 9:30to 
7:00 every day except sunday from 9-7. Pandora's 602 n. St. Louis(at sb ave). 
Three rings for the Eleven kings under the sky, Seven for the Dwarf.Jords in their halls of stone, Nine for Mortal Men doomed to die. 
PERSONALS 
Hi to Mrs. Kloos from all the ad dept. Hi!! 
Mr. and Mrs. Holtcamp: 
Thanks for the stay. Couldn't 
Ru.t this in the column. The 
\',' '; •,· ,W'i!P 111\0Q~h,er,.,. ;, .' 


... 

the observer Monday, October 29, 1973 



Irish team effort downs Trojans 
by Greg Corgan 

"I've been here for a lot of games, but I've never felt as unified as we were today." 
These were the words of coach Tom Pagna, and they were spoken in all sincerity, for as he spoke his eyes moistened, and tears began to run down his cheeks. 
He said "unified" because it was a total effort, a team effort and a school effort. And the students of Notre Dame deserve a part of this victory over Southern Cal, a big part of it. For it's the great spirit of a great student community that makes the magic of Notre Dame and Notre Dame football. On Saturday afternoon when the final gun went off, and we got what we've waited so long for, the game ball was ours, all of ours. 
It all began slowly. The talk of Southern Cal was, of course, here all year, but once we were past Army everything turned to SC. Tuesday there was an air of ex­pectancy. As one walked the quad one walked the quad on the way to class he was bound, in passing, to ovPrhear the names, Anthony Davis, Swann, Haden, McKay, and the phrases, "we can beat 'em," "this is the whole season," "revenge," and the like. Everyone knew this game meant everything. 
On Wednesday, the talk became more fervent, and the banners began to hang. Dillon started things off and the rest of the halls quickly followed suit. The psyche job had begun and perhaps for the first time the students began to feel quietly confident, a feeling not spoken about but genuinely shared throughout the campus. 
On Thursday, the air became electric. The back page of the Observer was full of pictures bringing back the unpleasant memories of the last six years. Keenan sponsored a pep rally, and it couldn't have been better. There were spontaneous rallies in the dining halls, at St. Mary's, even on the second floor of the library. The band practiced long hours into the night, and the fight song drifted distantly over the campus. More banners were hung. Flanner and Grace combined to construct a spectacular sign which spanned the distance beteen the two halls, while Sorin hung Anthony Davis in effigy. It was all building. We couldn't lose. 
Friday the Alumni started to filter in and the familiar football weekend began to take form. But it wasn't a familiar gootball weekend, it was SC weekend. More and more banners were hung, including the one on the side of the library which certianly was an extraoridnary feat of engineering. The Observer featured Southern Cal, including six pictures of A.D. on the back page. 

There was still room for skep­ticism, though, espeically among those seniors who had been let down three times before. "I couldn't help but feel a bit ap­prehensive, because we hadn't won in my three years here, "said senior Tom McKenney, "But I'd never seen anything like this past week. By Friday every tenth word 
mentioned was Southern Cal. And the reactions of the crowd at the game were fantastic. It was great." 
It all culminated on Saturday afternoon, and the scene was in­credible. Emotions peaked; As the Irish Guard high-stepped out leading the band, the stadium shook with the frenzied cries of the Notre Dame students who could no longer even comprehend the notion of losing. Everyone was caught up in the cheers for revenge, the chant of "we're number one", the boos for the Trojan marching band, the tunnel at halftime, the feeling of ultimate victory when Eric Penick sped 85 yards for a towhdn.wn, and the mob scene when The .,.. ::.·· finally ended. 
Even Duffy Daugherty, up in the ABC-TV booth, wascaughtup in the emotion, and found himself cheering for the Irish. 
Itwas a proud display, and those of us here have every reason to be proud and to feel an important part of this victory. "They (the crowd) were the greatest thing ever," said Mike Townsend, "there's nothing more you can say, they're the greatest." 
It's too bad that everyone couldn't have been in the lockerroom after the game. The players were dancing and singing, the coaches were hugging each other, the reporters were rushing around trying to get interview, the place wasa mazeof congratulatory handshakes and outbursts of overwhelming joy. And each and every one of them was grateful for the support they received. 
"They helped us a lot," said Tom Clements, "we felt as if we were playing for them as much as for anyone else." 
"The crowd made a 100 per cent difference," added Eric Penick, "I love to play before our crowd, the make the biggest difference in the world." 
Ara kept it simple andrightto the point. "They sure helped, I'll tell you that. The atmosphere was electryfying, and we were ready." 
When Ara said "we," he wasn't just speaking of his coaching staff, or of his football players. He was speaking of everyone. And when he said "we," he was thanking Notre Dame for being Notre Dame. 



OBSERVER 

SPORTS 



Eric Penick flies during the game ... 




. .. and rides high after its conclusion. 





