
"' \ Freshman Edition 

OD The IDslde: 
news 
Vol. VIll, No. 1 

serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Saturday, September 1, 1973 
Orientation begins.•• 
••• tor Notre Daine freshinen 
by J"~P-ph Abell Manag•..g Editor 

An extensive testing program, counseling 
service and social events highlight the 1973-74 
Freshman Orientation program, according to 
Dr. Emil T. Hofman, Dean of Freshman Studies. 
Ranging from tests for credit to Friday night 
cookouts, the program is the most ambitious to 
be attempted at Notre Dame, Hofman said. 
"We're able to do many things this year we could never have done before due to the lack of coeducation," Hofman said, adding that he expected the social events in particular to become more popullu with the students than previous 
year's "mixers." 
But, he said, the most important part of the orientation will be the testing program. Nearly half of the Class of '77 took the first part of the program over the summer. Consisting of test.s designed to help counselors guide freshmen, they were given at special centers in 11 cities in July in addition to the campus itselff. 
"Freshmen were given three options," Hof­man said. "They could either take the tests at the centers, on campus or wait until the day before freshman orientation (Aug. 31) to take them at school." 
Early Results 

The advantage to this planning is to get test results in as early as possible. The results of students taking the tests in July are already in, Hofman said, and the r~ults of the rest 
will be ready by Sept. 3, barely three days after the tests are given. The reason for this need of results quickly is so that special lists of students who did well can be posted Monday, inviting those students to take advanced tests for possible credit. These advanced tests will be administered between 9 and 11 a.m. and 2and 4 p.m. Sept. 3in Nieuwland Science Hall. 
The second aspect of the orientation program will be the extensive counseling service available to aU freshmen .. 
Consisting of three parts, the service will be available at any time in areas from academic to personal. 
Students will be advised by other students­undergrads who have gone through a special training program-faculty members in the field each student chooses, and special consultants from each academic department. 
Frosh will be requested to meet with their counselor or an upperclass counselor from time to time during the year, Hofman added. 
Related to counseling and making llP the third part of the orientation program will be the social events. "The first thing we learned in this .:>f­fice is that most freshmen feel loneliness," Hofman said. He added that the social events planned were designed to alleviate this problem by bringing the freshmen together and giving them a sense of belonging &nd friendship. 
"This is the greatest aspect of Notre Dame," Hofman said. "The spirit of friendliness is unlike anywhere else." 
He said among these events will be cookouts every Friday night between Sept. 7 and Oct. 5 in the courtyard behind Brownson Hall, tours of South Bend and picnic trips to the Dunes on Lake Michigan. The cookouts are designed as "mort than just a place to get something to eat," Hof­fman said.Freshmen will be able to meet other students and many professors attending the cookouts. 
"This is important," Hofman said concerning the meeting of professors. "It gives the freshmen a chance to meet profs under a different situation than the classroomm." The tours of South Bend arealsoimportant in the eyes of the Freshman Year Dean. 
Designed to give the student a broader per­spective of the area, the tours will be conducted at 3 p.m. Sept. 13 and 14 and 9 a.m. Sept. 15. Lasting three hours, the tours will include ·the downtown area, motel row, various shopping centers such as 100 Center, Town and Country and the new Scottsdale Mall, and various area stores. 
Dunes Trip 

A third major event set for freshmen will be two dunes picnic trips in October. Scheduled for Oct. 14 and 21, students willboard buses at 11 
a.m. each Sunday and return at 6 p.m. Activities will include swimming, games and cookout lunches and dinners. 
Tickets will be necessary to the cookouts, the tours and the dunes trips, Hofman said, merely to facilitate planning and supplies. All tickets will be free for the asking, he said, and will be available the week of the cookout or dunes trip. Tickets for the South Bend tours should be picket up before Sept. 11. All tickets will be available in the Freshman Year of Studies office in Brownson Hall. 
Finally, Hofman said his office has planned an open house for freshmen parents Nov. 3. Set for the morning of the Notre Dame-Navy football game, the event will be held from 9 to 11 a.m. in Stepan Center and will include a breakfast and meetings with professors. 
Special notices of the event including details will be sent to all freshman parents in October. 
Looking ahead to the second semester, Hof­man said nothing definite has been planned, but he was many ideas in the works. 
Chicago Trip? 

He said he would like to take a number of freshmen on tours of Chicago, similar to a program he ran last year. These tours would include tours of the various Chicago museums and downtown areas. 
Hofman also said he hoped to set up a winter carnival-type affair at Bendix Park, south of South Bend near the beginning of the second semester. 
Special lecturers and lecture series are also on his list of activitie s. 
4 t>."> &"J 
• 
t* 
A(,~ tt7.i~J· 
' 
... 
"Jtll:/ 
<
' 
1 
t: 
t 
,.. . 
-... 

••• for St. Mary's freshinen 

Four hundred thirty-five freshman and a record 90 transfer students arrive on Saint Mary's campus Saturday for a four day orientation program. Total fall enrollment is 1,554. 
A welcoming address by College President Edward Henry will open the programat 8: 30 Saturday evening in O'Laughlin Auditorium, followed by a reception for students and their families. Sunday includes a special Mass,academic seminars,open house, a picnic, "Backstage," presented, by theND-SMC theatre,and informal activities with Notre Dame. A complete schedule of orientation events is listed below. 
Orientation committee heads Kathy Weber and Melissa Bryne have arranged a wide variety of activities to help transfers and freshmen get acquainted with the campus. One significant difference of this year's orientation, however, is that the students will have more free time and the option to attend seve1 al social activities rather than just a few. 
"We're leaving the girls more on their own this year," reported Patty Lurel, social chairman of orientation. "We're not shoving them over to Notre Dame as we did in the past." 
Lurel siad that this year's schedule will be basically the same as last year's with the ad­dition of the concert at Saint Mary's Lake and a carnival slated for Wednesday, which will feature games, booths, refreshments, and a band. 
Lurel emphasized that expanded co-education at Notre Dame would not effect mixed social activities between ND and SMC and added that "in a few weeks" some event would be arranged to Dring the NotreDameand Saint Mary's women togeth,..r. 
"We wanted to schedule something in the beginning, but there just wasn't enough time," said lurel. 
Orientatior. will not be extended into the first semester, as last year's was, accoridng to Mrs. Rosemary Doherty, head of the Freshman Of­fice. Last YP.ar's expanded program of films and seminars was largely unsuccessful. 
"But we will try to l';eep in close touch with freshmen to see if they want us to plan some activities for them," said Lurel. 
Freshman enrollment is up 100 students from last year, according to Joan Organ, a spokesman fc · the admissions office. She attributed the increase to the addition of the business ad­ministration, special education, and nursing 
programs. 
The class draws from seven foreign countries, and an unofficial estimate of 5 black students was reported. 
Illinois has contributed the highest number of students (109), followed by Indiana (53). 

J 

--~--------------4 w.
··iiP
a 

the observer Saturday, September 1, 1973 
,,' 
' 
warld 

briefs 
(Washingtonl-The chairman of a House Subcommittee studying security expenditures at President Nixon's homes has charged that documents released by the White House this week had been altered. Now, the White House says the charges are what it terms "Much Ado About Nothing," and is accusing Democratic Representative Jack Brooks of Texas, of taking what it says is a "cheap shot." Brooks told a news conference that land surveys attached to the sales agreement released on Monday the the White House and dated December 15th, 1970, could not have existed on that date because they had not yet been conducted. White House Counselor Bryce Harlow said in a letter to Brooks that ­quoting now-"There is no basis for a preception of in­consistency in the transaction, and, further, we fail to per­ceive any relevancy with respect to the question of govern­ment expenditures." 
(Gainesville, Florida) ---A Federal Court Jury in GainesvJHe, Florida, has found eight anti-war veterans in­nocent of charges of conspiring to violently disrupt last August's G.O.P. convention in Miami Beach. 
The jury of seven women and five men deliberated about four hours. The defendants called only one witness in presenting their case as opposed to the 28 called by the prosecution. 
The defense contended that the government had not proved 
its case and said thatne very least they felt assured of a hung 
jury. 

(Washington)--A group of striking railroad workers estimated at more than 200 stormed Canada's Parliament buildings today. . .Chanting protests ag&isnt efforts to legislate an end to their walkout. The group broke past security guards and poured into the center block of the parliament buildings chanting "We won't go back!" They were brought under control in about 45 minutes. Witnesses say some windows were smashed and chairs broken in the protest. Parliament has been called into an emergency session to legislate an end to the week-long work stoppage. 
(Washington)--Signaling more potential food increases, the Agriculture Department reported yesterday that the average price of all raw farm products soared a record 20 per cent to a new all-time high in the mpnth ended August 15th. The monthly farm price report was the first major economic indicator to measure the impact of the July 18th lifting of wholesale and retail ceilings on all foods except beef. It showed prices 62 per cent above a year earlier. 
(San Clemente, California(--The Western White House says that President Nixon has decided to appeal Judge John Sirica's order that Nixon turn over the Watergate tape recording for Sirica's private examination. 

INSIDE MALL SOUTHWEST CORNER 

~-..:c:c:c:cc.c.cc.c• -~ 
I abc GREAT STATES THEATRES ~ Always ARST with the Choice of NEW FILMS 
SUPER SHOW Holds Over at ABC'S NEW SHOWPLACE 

Pool, golf, saunas at .SMC 
The lack of recreational facilities at Saint Mary's has been filled this summer with the in­stallation of a pool, driving range and putting green, resurfaced tennis courts and a ;nore fully­equipped exercise room in the student center. 
The 11-foot deep pool, built by the Holy Cross sisters, is located in the Regina South courtyard which will eventually be enclosed by a roof. Temporary dressing rooms are available, but permanent facilities are pla.nned. 
Pool hours will be Monday­Friday from 1 to 4 and 5 to 7p.m. for St. Mary's women, faculty and staff, and Saturday and Sunday from noon to 6p.m. for all. A fee of 50 cents per guest or $1.00 ~,~er family will be charged. A "guest" is defined as any person not directly connected with SMC. 
Pool parties may be reserved throue:h the student center at a cost of $25 for the hours of 8 to 10p.m. Monday-Friday and 7 to 10 
p.m. Saturday and Sunday. Each group must provide its own lifeguard, but the student center 
University hosts 
forum on war 
· A worldwide conference on tte origins of war met at the University of Notre Dame Aug. 28 to 31. 
The conference, which was at­tended by more than 40 in­ternational scholars, isoneof the 74 advance meetings held before the Congress of Anthropological and Ethnological Sciences convening from Sept. 1-Sept. 8 in Chicago. 
or the 40 papers, schedules, topics included "War, Com­petitive Sports and Aggression," "War as a Part of Social Pollution," and "Aggression in Non-Human Primates: Implications for Un­derstanding Human Behavior." 

will furnish a list of available lifeguards. 
The roof will be installed during a 11kiay period in September. Contractors have assured the college that the work will be completed as Quickly as passible. 
The golf range and-putting green will not be ready until October. Weather permitting, they will be available from Monday through Friday from 11 to 2 p.m. and Saturday and Sunday from 4 to a 
p.m. Cost is 50 cents per bucket of balls. 
Saunas in the Regina exercise room may be booked through the student center. They are open only to women. 
The Observer is publiShed daily during the college semester except vacations by the stuaents of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for sa per semester ($14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 


WELCOME FRESHMEN! 

We'd like to introduce ourselves ... we're the men on campus to see whenyou want apparel ... univer­sity styled (and modestly priced) apparel. We're ready for the year ahead, too· ... you'll see slacks, jeans, sweaters, shirts, coordinated sportswear, belts, shoes, suits, sportcoats, underwear . everything you'll need or want. Stop in, look us over ... 
in style, in price, 
in terms.:.... . 
. .. ; .. .. ' \ ' j ~. " \ . ~ . 
...-.... 
..' ,'"'>>::>\\:,:..'>~ .. \. .•· 

____:O~N:.:__IHE ·CAMP_U_S___N_:_O_T_R~ _[)_AM_E 

YOUR STORE 

Increased enrollment cramps 100 freshmen 

by Butch Ward Editorial Editor 

As a result of Notre Dame's mysterious inability to be affected by nationally decreasing collegiate enrollment trends, nearly 100 freshmen have been placed this fall in forced living quarters on an already overcrowded campus. 
Despite the nationwide tendency towards decreased enrollments, this year Notre Dame experienced an increase of 5 per cent over 1972 in the number of accepted ap­plicants who actually agreed to attend school this fall. 
John Goldrick, director of ad­missions, said that out of 3059 applicants who were accepted in the spring, 1800 have confirmed their intention to attend Notre me, 175 students greater than the ex­pected frosh population. 
Ratio increases 
The admissions department, according to Goldrick, traditionally accepts twice the number of frosh applicants the university expects for the fall semester. Although historically only 50 pe-cent of those accepted actually agree to attend, 59 per cent of the applicants confirmed this year. 
Although the admissions department accepted a number relatively equal to that of previous years, Goldrick said "the con­firmation ratio increased significantly." 
Numbers game 
The summer has been a series of completely unexpected develop­ments for the admissions people who rely on the "numbers game" for acrueing a workable freshman class size. Following the unusually large number of confirmed ac­ceptances, Goldrick looked to a traditional cancelation ratio of 7 per cent as a means of reducing the class size. 
Cancellations 
Cancellations occur wben an applicant who has been accepted and has confirmed his intention to attend, pays the enrollment fee only to later reverse his decision. 
As of August 8, when the number of cancellations historically ex­ceeds 100, only 45 conf1rmed ap­plicants had decided against Notre Dame. 
But hopefully the overcrowded conditions for freshmen will only be temporary. Rev. John Mulcahy, director of on-eampus housing, said that an effort to "uncrowd" the freshmen will be made as space becomes available. 
'Their decision' 
But upperclassmen, who agreed last spring to overcrowd their rooms in an effort to prevent large numbers of students from being kicked-()ff campus, will not be uncrowded. 
Mulcahy, who stressed that no freshmen were forced into up­perclass rooms, said that the older students must become convinced that the decision to overcrowd was their own,and does not alter the fact that the demands for on­campus housing require specified numbers of students to move off­campus yearly. 
He pointed out that no public rooms were used to house the freshmen, in contrast to last year when study lounges across campus were filled with excess students. 
Pack Morrissey 
Morrissey was hardest hit by the overcrowding, as their population jumped from its original 307 to a present total of 337. Alumni was also hit hard, increasing by 24 to its present 300. 
Mulcahy said that he expects the demands for on-eampus housing to be as great this year as last, but declined to speculate as to the seriousness of next spring's situation. He said that he wants to keep all options open until the situation becomes more clear. 
Goldrick was unable to project 
whether or not the current Doom in enrollment would continue next 
year. He cited the start_ of coeducation last year as a possible reason for the increase. 
He said that it still must be decided whether the present in­crease should be used as the guide in determining policy for accepting applicants next year, or whether the same system should be again be used hoping that this year's increase was unique. 
Women were not affected by the overcrowding, as the quota was reached in August and transfer applications were immediately cut off. All of the overcrowding oc­curred in the men's dorms, and all forced rooms weredetermined 


with the cooperation of the in­
John Goldrick
dividual hall rector. 
r 
The summer has been a series of unexpected developments for the admissions people 

l 



OBSERVER 
Saturday, September 1, 1973 Page J 
Improvements come to South DiningHall 
by Jerry Lutkus Editor-in-Chief 
A newly-renovated and com­pletely air-conditioned South Dining Hall will be opened to students as they return to campus over the Labor Day weekend. The renovation, drawn up by Ellerbe Architects, is in its final stages as workers complete the finishing touches. 
The new design completely alters the flow of traffic within the dining hall. All students are to enter the hall by the front doors. Directly in front of them as they enter are the new doors which lead into the pay cafeteria, now named the "Oak Room." 
-Students then veer off to either the left or right, where a wrought­iron fence will guide them to the location of the "checkers." These dining hall employees will be sitting approximately in the area where the old doors to the pay cafeteria were located. 
The flow of traffic will lead the students down a hallway, which used to be the side section·s of the pay cafeteria, into the serving area in which the old kitchen used to be located. 
As the students walk into the serving area, in the center of the room will be a cart containing trays, napkins and silverware. Directly in front of that is a stretch of serving counters containing six areas where students can pick up the hot entrees. On either side of the serving or scramble room are counters which hold the salads, fruit, doughnuts and other similar items. 
As the students exit the serving room, they are confronted with a huge square area which holds the refreshments. In front of them will be the carbonated items, on the two sides of the square to their left or right are the milk dispensers and on the far side of the square are the dispensers for coffee and tea. All of the dispensers are serviced by dining hall employees from within the block. 
The eating areas are much 
expanded with seating capacity of 904 in each side of the dining hall, yet the tables are spread out to all~viatethe crowding problem in the hall. Also, along the side walls of each hall, the four-seat tables taken from the pay cafeteria offer the student the choice of eating in 
large or small groups. 
According to Bro. Kiernan Ryan, 
assistant vice president for 
business, the conveyor belt system 
for disposal of trays after eating is 
one of the crucial factors in the 
efficient operation of the new 
system. 
Students will no longer have to 
bus trays to th~ mobile stands in 
the halls. Now, a conveyor belt 
system, running along the wall on 
the kitchen side of each dining 
area, will bring the dirty dishes 
into the washing area. 
Ryan and Edmund T. Price, 
director of food services, urged all 
students who use the facility to bus 
their trays to the belt. If all 
students cooperate, they said, the 
system will be extremely efficient. 
They also requested that students 
who read The Observer during 
their lunch hour, deposit the paper 
in disposal containers after they 
read it instead of leaving the paper 
on their trays. 
Once finished, the students can 
exit the cafeteria by the side doors 
or the front doors, both which used 
to serve the students as entrances. 
Ryan emphasized that there are 
"two tremendous pluses" to the 
new system. "It has increased the 
seating by 480 in the dining hall and 
it took-all the serving lines out of 
the dining room," he said. 
According to Ryan, the kitchen 
area in the dining hall was 
"completely gutted" and all new, 
highly-automated equipment was 
installed. All the commissary 
items, including the butcher's stop 
and bakery, have been moved 
completely to the North Dining 
Hall. 
The two men asked for patience 
on the students part while a traffic 


a p s 
'73 Notre Dame graduates fare well 
Starting ~alaries offered to members of the Notre Dame's class of '73 generally were above the national average, according to Richard D. Willemin, director of the University's placement bureau. 
Notre Dame civil engineering graduates received salary offers four per cent higher than the an­
"The salary increase reflects an On the bachelor's level, improved employment outlook for chemical engineering led the way college graduates · The 1973 at Notre Dame with an average Notre Dame graduate found starting salary of $11,388. himself in a better 'seller's Metallurgy followed with $11,364 market' than we've seen in recent and mechanical engineering with years," Willemin said. "The $lt304. Other leading disciplines number of employers visiting our were electrical engineering, campus increased one t~ird over $11,244; civil engineering $11.028; last year. One hundred_ e_tghty:o~e accountancy. $10,392, and finance, 
tiona! average reported in the .~mployers m_ade rec~~Itm~ VISits 10, 272. College Placement Council's m 1971-72, while 248 vtstted m 1972-Notre Dame master of business (CPC> 1973 salary survey. The 1973 . . . administration graduates having a civil engineers were followed by Nationally an~ _at the Umvers1ty, technical undergraduate degree graduates in accounting, graduates_ rece1~m~ ?egrees fro!ll received the highest salary offers 
mechancial engineering and 
metallurgy who received offers 
three per cent above the national 
average.
Salaries offereri to this year'sNotre Dame class were six per cent 
higher than last year. Nationally,' salaries increased four per cent. 
SMC offers three new programs 
A business administration major and a-joint special education program with Indiana University at South Bend have been added to Saint Mary's fall curriculum. In addition, the nursing program will begin its first year. 
The business major was added upon approval of the Board of Regents to answer the increased demand for such a program, and a random questionnaire distributed · last fall indicated 97 per cent of students polled favored it. The department curriculum has been enlarged, and it has been retitled the Department of Business Ad­ministration and Economics. Majors may earn a Bachelor of Business Administration or Bachelor of Arts in Business and Economics degree. 
The special education program, recently approved by the Indiana State Teacher Training and Licensing Commission, will give students state certification. It provides for an exchange of professors between the two in­stitutions, and will be honored by NCATE, the national accrediting agency for teacher education programs. 
The nursing program has filled 
its quota of 70 students, according 
to Dr. Mary Martucci, chairman of 
the department of nursing. The 
majority of them are from outside 
the South Bend area, she added. 
The major is structured so that the first two years consist of liberal arts core requirements for a baccalaureate degree, with nur­sing training beginning in the third year. This enables a student who wishes to change her major after the first or second year to do so without being penalized acadt:mically. Graduates in the department will rect-ivc both· the 
H.N and B.S. degree in nursing. 
--.ursing training will be sup-·· a r. :! 1r:_! a der shi p ex­pu::ll!t'ntcd with volunteer work ;n I perience :•ffered thrOl an· n'~:.t~:i_:;:i_ ~:.tt~d by any other college cov·ses.
th<: <:ommunit). 
Tl:{· Saint Mary's department of _ And, prove~• in the-cr\.-·~ ,·· : _')tficer experi~nce-1 these are important asse~.-ior nursing is the only Catholic b<ic­
any young man lookin~: iv: ;\.ito a suceessful futu.-·e.Assets which are readily
calaurt-ate nur~ing program in the 
marketable when seehng ~ r..r position.
state. 
Success in a life choice today demands more than ever the right prer.;.1..tion. Education, of coure, is essential. But the growing proportion of Amer~c-;·is going to college has lessened the diploma's role as an automa tic entree to the best jobs.Employers are demanding some_thing more. 
Army ROTC oHers ''something more" to the college man looking to expa~d­his future. Call 283-6264 or 283-6265 
or visit the Army R~TC office Bldg. 5 
JlrArmyRare. 
' 

the techmcal dtsctplmes. were m on the masters level. The average ~ost demand and recetved the offer was $15,396--$1,272 above the highest salary offers. national average. _
Dr. Areson appOln· ted SMC j• d • f
counse lng Jrec or 
Mich. She was previously em­Dr. Suzanne Areson has been ployed at the University ofappointed Director of Counseling Michigan, Ann Arbor, training andat St. Mary's, replacing Dr. Mary 
supervising counselors, and
Martucci who now heads the 
coordinaing • the school ofnursing program. 
education's advising office. Dr.
In her new position, Dr. Areson Areson received her Ph.D. inwill be responsible for personal education as well as her master'scounseling and vocational testing in counseling and guidance fromof students. 
the University of Michigan. ShePrior to joining the college, Dr. 
holds a bachelor of science degree Areson served two years as in pysychology from Western
resident counselor at Eastern 
Michigan University, Kalamazoo.
Michigan University, Ypsilanti, 
Accurate starting salary statistics for 1973 Notre Dame Ph. 
D. graduates are not available. Data fro the Notre Dame and CPC surveys was based on actual offers made by businesses ~nd indistrial firms. 
Notre Dame was one of 145 selected colleges and universities which participated in .the CPC 
survey. 
cJENNIFEl\0 

exciting designs in dresses & separates hand crafted jewelry indian imports 119 W. COLFAX 
DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND 
A young manwithhiseye to the future -can looktoAnnyRare. 
Choose Army ROTC. The total time requirements of ROTC account for· little in a student's workload and no commitment is made by you until the Junior Year. While you're looking at our program and deciding if we can offer you something, we will be looking at ·you. If we're both satisfied we can offer 
eac~ o~~~r _som~thing, 
upon graduationwouwill receive a commission as a Second Lieutenant in the United States Army Reserve. Right now chances are good you'll only be required to serve on active duty for 3 to 6 months: 
WhC..i. y "1 go back to a ci\·il.ia :::career, you'll have ar· ~~d~e. The management 


Saturdayf ~pt~beJ:" .1 •. \f7t·the -Qbit•rver 
5 
21 new faculty members added at SMC 
by Maria Gallagher 
Staff changes have been made in 
almost every academic depart­
ment at Saint Mary's with the 
addition of nine new full-time 
faculty and 12 new part-time tea­
chers. Four are returning from 
leaves of absence. 
Earl Holmes joins the biology department as an assistant professor, coming from Elizabethtown College. He received his B.A., M.S. and Ph.D from Earlham College, Miller­sville State College, and Texas A & M Universiy respectively, and also taught at Franklin Pierce College. 
The newly-expanded department of business administration>:~nd economics adds four part-time lecturers. John Gaither Jr., BBA Notre Dame; Michael McCuddy, 
B.S. and M.S. Indiana University: Thomas Orsi, B.B.A. andM.B.A. University of Illinois; and William Schmuhl,B.B.A. and J.D. Notre Dame, and M.B.A. University of Chicago are included in the eight-
person department. 
Dr. Vatsala Srinvasan willlecture part-time in the cnemistry and physics .department. No background information was available on Dr. Srinivasan. 
The education department adds Robert Ernst as a part-time lee­turer. He received both his bachelor's and master's degrees Notre Dame. 
Two new faculty will join the English department. Sister Eva Mary Hooker, C.S.C., will be an assistant professor, coming from Dunbarton College. She received her bachelor's degree from Saint Mary's, her master's from the University of Notre Dame, and her doctorate from SUNY at Buffalo. 
Ann Loux, who previously taught at Saint Mary's returns as a lee­turer _in English. A graduat~ of 
Maryville College, she received her M.A.T. from the University of Chicago. She has taught at Indiana University. 
Mathematics 
Mathematics adds Martin Dull and 'Margaret Prullage as assistant professor and lecturer respectively. Dr. Dull received his 
A. B. from Boston College, his M.S. and Ph. D. from Notre Dame, and was a graduate assistant at Western Michigan University. He has also taught at the University of Pittsburgh. Prullage holds a B.A. from Rosary College, an M.A. from the University of Wisconsin, and has taught at Saint Joseph College and Georgetown College. 
Josephine Barallat, Ann Clark, and Sister Maria Assunta Werner, C.S.C., return from leaves of ab­sence to the modern language, philosophy, and religious studies departments respectively. 
Music 
The music department will include two new instructors, John Fisher and Mary Spencer. Fisher holds a B.A. and an M.M. from Iiana University, and Spencer holds a B.M. and M.M.from the University of North Carolina and the Univer~ity of Illinois She has taught at Salem College, the University of Illinois, and Millikia University. 
Daniel Mandell, who holds master's degrees in both philosophy and theology from Notre Dame and Fordham University, will be a lecturer in the philosophy department. 
The political science department adds two lecturers, Frank Palopoli and Wilda Morris. Palopoli received his B.A., and M. 
A. from LaSalle College and Notre Dame respectively and Morris 
' received her B.A., from American University and Ph. D. from the University of Illinois. She has taught at the University of lllin01s and Indiana University at South Bend. 

Two new members will ioin the psychology department. .Joseph, Miller, who holds an A.B from Lycoming College. and MA.C.T. from University of Tennessee, will be an assistant professor, audKaren Arrington, who holds a B.A. from Pennsylvania State University, and M.A. from Notre Dame. Mer 
wants you. 

has taught at TempleBuell College, Set Briar College, and the University of Tennessee. Arrington has taught at Indiana Universitv. 
Sociology adds Robert Berglund as an associate professor, Patrick Gallagher, South Bend Director of Public Safety, as a part-time lecturer, and Sister M. Rose Bernard as an associate profes3or. 
Berglund received his B.A. from Hamline University, his M.S.W. from the University of Denver, and has taught at Indiana University, Bradley University, Adelphi University, and Hufstra Univer­sity. Gallagher is a graduate of Marist College, and received his 
M.A. from New York University. He is a Ph.D candidate at Purdue. Sister M. Rose Bernard received her B.S. from ~~int Mary's, her :\LA. from Notre Dame, 
and her doctorate from Catholic University. She has taugh~ at Holy Cross College in 
(continued on page 6) 

reporters 
The OBSERUER 
typists layout people photographers 
For information, call 1715 and ask to speak with any editor. 
r----~~~~-~~--~--, 
~ 
At 
presents 

I Registration Day Special 
I 
i 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I I Washington Hall
~ 
I 
.. · ...... 



---------------~-------------------------,S£111111.. ., ....~--~ ..,.----------------,::s
....----~ii> ...,----~---~·~· 
the observer Saturday, September 1, 1973
6 
Administrative changesmade at St. Mary's 
the American Petroleum Institute. 
by Maria ~allagher 
Currently she is a member of theSt. Mary's Editor Saint Mary's Board of Regents and 
In the wake of the summer ad­chairman of the student life ministrative shuffle, three posts committee. have changed hands, three new Sister Basil Anthony will assume posts have been created, and two responsibilities as vice-president remain unfilled. In addition, five for campus affairs, anewly created 
· terms have expired on the Board of position. Regents and the status of two more Sister Basil Anthony has served is uncertain. Saint Mary's in several ad­
Replacing Don Rosenthal as ministrative capacities. She was registrar is Sr. Mary Francesca, vice-president for fiscal affairs, C.S.C., who held that post• at and, prior to that, dean of students. Dunbarton College in Washington She holds a master's degree in until it closed last June. theology from the College and a 
She holds a bachelor's degree master's degree in education from fl'om Dunbarton College, and a the University of Notre Dame. master's from Catholic University. Recently she was elected to the 
Information on her major fields Board of Directors of the was not immediately available. American Association of She also holds an Ed.D from University Administrators Columbia University, and was <AAUA) fora three year term. She assistant professor of education at was also the general secretary of Dunbarton. · the Congregation of the Sisters of 
Sister Anna Mae Golden, C.S.C., the Holy Cross for twelve years. takes over as director of ad­mtsstons, succeeding Sister Other New Positions Raphelita Whalen, C.S.C. 
Sister Anna Mae joined Saint Another new position, that of Mary's in 1972 as assistant director institutional researcher, will be of admissions. She holds a B.A. in filled by Sr. Jeannette Lester. mathematics from Dunbarton, and an M.A. in mathematics from afew ~aculty
the University of Notre Dame. She I.1 1 I.1 taught mathematics for eighteen J•Ol•n SMC 
years at Cardinal Cushing College in Boston, and served as its 
academic dean during the 1971-72 (continued from page 5) school year. Dacca, East Pakistan, and -at 
Sr. Ellen Dolores Lynch, C.S.C., Dunbarton College. will succeed Sr. Basil Anthony Two lecturers will jc)in the O'Flynn, C.S.CC., as vice-speech and drama department. president for development and James Baxter, B.A. DePauw public relations. She holds M.S. University, and M.A. University of and Ph.D degrees in chemistry New York (now Brooklyn from the University of Notre College), was an instructor at Dame, and has published several Notre Dame. Cheryl Hughes, B.A. articles in professional journals Miami University and M.A. North­relating to her field. For the last western University was a research twenty years she has taught at assistant at Northwestern Dunbarton Collere where she also University. served as secretary for the In addition to intradepartmental planning committee and. as a changes, Brother Bernard member of the advisory com-Donahoe will be acting chairman mittee for the college. Prior to of the history department for the that, she taught at Saint Mary's 73-74 school year and Dr. Mary College, and did research for the Martucci will head the new nursing Department of the Interior and _d_e_pa_r_t_m_e_n_t.__________--, 
Welcome Aboard freshmen I 
the Windiammer 
has it all for you••• 

*three expert barber stylists 
*complete line of RK hair care products 
*relaxed atmosphere 
Long hair can be a problem, if it is not shaped properly. Our expert barber-stylists will take the time to help you find the style that best fits your needs. 
all services by appointment 
1637 lincoln way west 232-6622 

This post is distinguished from the Hitchcock serves full-time as chief doing missionary work in Africa archivist's who presides over the accountant of a farm co-()p in during the coming year, and their college records, in that will include Benton Harbor, Michigan. A seats are likely to be filled by two data analysis and make projec­permanent appointee will be new appointees. Five or six new tions from available data. selected by late fall. members will be added to the 
Former assistant to the The five expired terms on the board's present number of president John J. Hof has been Board of Regents are those of seventeen. Under by.laws, drawn appointed director of develop­Jordan Hamel, Franklin Schurz, up last year, as many as 40 ment and recruitment for the Sr. Leonella Mole, faculty members may sit on the Board. At Tucson program, which is being representative Dr. Bruno least one-third must be sisters of offered for the first time this Schlesinger and student the Holy Cross. semester, In his new position Hof representative Sue Welte. Provisions for faculty and 
will reside at Picture Rocks Although their terms·· are not ex­student representation will be Retreat House, headquarters of pired, Sr. Gerald Hartney and made as soon as possible, said Dr. the Saint Mary's Tucson campus. Mother Olivette Whalen will be Henry. 
The assistant to the president post which he leaves vacant has not yet been filled, but . Dr. Henry ex­pressed the hope that it would be by later fall. 
Hof came to Saint Mary's frllm Tucson in July, 1972. He is a co­founder of the Thomas More In­stitute in Tucson, and still serves as executive director of the In­stitute, which is a secular educational organization that seeks to promote Christian humanism. 
Acting Financial Chief 
The other vacancy, director of business and financial affairs is temporarly being filled by Leslie Hitchock, who takes interim charge of the office formerly headed by Jason Lindower, Jr. 
Before: 
During: 
Student Billing Service 
makeS Sense! There's no reason why you shouldn't enjoy the convenience of making long distance calls from your residence hall room phone and receiving a monthly bill for your calls . . . and yours only! 
That service is available right here, right now. Dorm resi­dents may pick up their Student Billing Cards at the Indiana 
Bell Office. Talk it up. We'll mail you a Student Billing Card, if you'll call 234-5088. I ~;,::~ ::~:p5 ~.:. o:0~;:~n=~::·:.~d~: S. Main Street. I 
:1~ @Indiana Bell lill
I »



L,.,.,.._.,.,,.,,..__,,,_.,._,=•c«~-'"""'""""""""''"*"""=j 
Helen's Boutique 
21 ~ South Michigan 
in downtown South Bend 
ELCOME WOMEN F THE CLASS 
OF '77!  
*handbags *scarves  etc.  *earrings * knitsets  


' 

~ 973
::~•'iSatu~~,ill{" ~.!.~!e~.~~·J~t..• thftt~.bJ.e r..yer 
7 
...... -.-.......... ,. --·--·-··-.. -... -.. -------------
Faccenda defines educational purpose 
With the start of a new academic year and a large number of per­sonnel changes, the Office of Student Affairs seeks to define the type ot Christian atmosphere it hopes to pursue, revise the student manual and change some internal procedures. · 
"We're trying to make a short statement of our educatioa.al purpose. It's a value statment of what we believe and are willing to do with regard to our educational format," says Phillip Faccenda, vice president of Student Affairs. 
Statement of purpose 
The statement, not yet in its final copy, was presented to the hall rectors at thei-r orientation meetings. It represents a philosophy that asks the rectors and all Student Affairs personnel to be Christian in their dealings with students. 
"It is an initial attempt to recognize the Christian "nature of relationships staff should use with students. This is a staff policy and not something which asks any action on the part of the students," says Dr. Robert Ackerman, director of staff development under Faccenda. 
Staff reallignments 
Student Affairs, under Fac­cenda's leadership , began for­ming its policies and goals only since last May when Faccenda 's appointment to his present position was made permanent. At that time a large number of staff reallignments were also an-
Medieval art shown at N. D. 
An exhibit of ancient and medieval art has opened at Notre Dame's Art Gallery in O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
The show includes examples of Byzantine, Coptic and medieval French, German and Italian art from th University's permanent collection. Among the objects being shown for the first time are several first and second century Roman lead figure reliefs. 
Other objects on display include 12th century Italian columns, two 15th century German painintings of St. Mary Magdalen and St. Margaret, a fifth or sixth century Byzantine gold filigree earring, and a lOth century bronze cross reliquary. 
Among the examplse of Coptic Egyptian art are several fourth to eighth century textiles and a small carving of a pilgrim. 
In conjuncton with the exhibit, Rev. Richard Conyers, C.S.C., an art doctoral candidate at the State University of New York at Binghamton will deliver a lecture on humorous marginalia in 
medieval manuscripts  on a date.  
yet to be set.  
The  exhibition  is  to  conti  

ue through December 30. Ad­mission is free. 
Roy Ford dies 
Roy J: Ford, class of 1971, was killed in an auto accident in Pennsylvania on Sunday, July 1. Ford, a student in the college of ­Arts and Letters, was on his way to m<!_ke arrangements for off­campus housing. 
He was buried on July 5 at the Trinity Lutheran Church in Manasquan, New Jersey. 

241 Dixieway North 1 mi. north of NO
$
Guitars  Access.ories  
Music  Instruction  
.  

Everything for the guitarist 
nounced. Over the summer the rules." offices for Student Affairs moved "This is our ideas, what we think to a new location in room 315 of the it ought to be," says Ackerman." Administration building. We are not trymg to pressure 
Faccenda outlined several other anyone to accept them. areas, in addition to the Christian Student Affairs have also philosophy, which his sfaff prepared a draft for revising prepared over the summer. hearing procedures and other 
appeals methods concerning Revision of Manual university discipline. These suggestions will also go to the SLC 
Student Affairs has prepared a for their consideration. draft of their ideas for revision of Additionally, the office has the Student Manual. This draft outlined procedures for rector will be presented to the Student orientation and staff education. Life Council <SLC), the committee This will be Ackerman's primary composed of administrators, responsibility. faculty and students, responsible 
Staff skills
for review of the student rules. 
"We have submitted a working I will hopefully spend the year document of suggestions," states trying to help the professional staff Faccenda, "which we hope will develop skills to do a good job," lead to redrafting of the university says Ackerman. "There are 
Notre Dame ·gets woman dean 
Notre Dame's first woman dean, Sr. Isabel Charles, O.P., has been appQinted as assistant dean in the university's College of Arts and Letters. 
Dr. Charles completed her un­dergradate work at Manhattan Collgge, Riverdale, N.Y., and received· an MA and Ph.D. in English from Notre Dame. She studied for a year at the Center for the Study of Higher Education at the University of Michigan. 
Since '1.969, she has served as e­xecutive vice president and academic dean of Ohio Dominican College in Columbus, where she had previously taught for three years on the English faculty. 
Sr. Isabel Charles, O.P. 
concerns the rectors have, such as counselling, and undertanding the personal growth of students that I can help with." 
Faccenda hopes to have a free flow of information from his office to the students this year 
Welcome Class of '77! 
Please Compare III 
Before You Buy Or Lease a 

REFRIGERATOR 
Look for these features: 
Look for these features: 
·4.6 Cubic Feet (The Legal Limitr 
Push Button Defrosting 
Sliding Shelves 
Work Top 
No Deposit 
FREE Delivery -Maintenance -Pickup 
Local Dealer -Student Reps 
economical 
CALL NOW ESLINGER LEASE SERVICE 
259 2242 291 5676 

TAKE THE HAULS OF E Z BACK TO THE HALLS OF IVY. 
Why head back to school with your car so jam-packed you can hardly move? Move the easy way with one of our E Z Haul trailers --they're big enough to handle all your back· to-school gear and then some. 
Three roomy-sized closed-in models to choose from. All completely weatherproof with lockable doors. E Z Haul trailers are lightweight and easy to tow and come equipped with "quick-connect" light connections, universal trailer hitch and safety chains. 
Chevrolet Trucks 
® 
~~~~~~......................................... ~-----------------~~----®----J 
And E Z Haul has more than 3,000 locations offering con· venient rent·it-here, leave-it-there service ... one is sure to be near you. And when your E Z Haul contract is com­pleted, you'll get a fistful of S&H. Green Stamps mailed to you. 
To find the E Z Haul dealer nearest you, look in the Yellow Pages under "Truck and Trailer Renting." Reserve your back-to-school trailer now and move to the head of your class. 
We give S&H Green Stamps. 
r-----------------------­
g~F EZ BUCI< COUPON g.1r= 
Present this coupon to any authorized E Z Haul Dealer and re­ceive $1 discount on the rental of any E Z Haul trailer. Look for your nearest dealer in the Yellow Pages. Offer expires Nov. 1, 1973. Limit one coupon per rental. Subject to state and local regulations. Void if taxed, restricted or forbitted by law. 
Note  to  E Z  Haul  Dealer:  Accept this coupon up to Nov. 1,  
1973.  
$1  Enter .credit in BoJ< 44 of check in copy of Rental Agreement and attach cou­ ~I I  ----~ /-~­'1fr"'"  

pon to receive credit. , ' ...... ,,~,
1
l 'll-4'1f.WAt ,..,fttN/4. .-.Ill•...,., a.-.,.
OFF 
"My underlying theme is that everything we do is open. In terms of policies and attitudes we're going to be as open as humanly possible. This will, I hope eliminate many suspicions," says Faccenda. 

a D ­
• 

MilesTa Ga...




THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
The Beginning 
Art Ferr;anti Executive Editor 
Lee Gentine Business Man;ager 
Jerry Luflcus Editor-in-Chief Dtln BtlrreH Executive Editor 
butch ward 
NEWS: 283-1715  
EDITORIALS: 283-8661  John Kloos  
BUSINESS: 283-7471  Advertising Manager  
Saturday, September 1, 1973  



One of 1800 
You are probably one of the 1800 fresh­men now l)n campus. You are probably a little scared and a little shy. Or maybe you're brash and cocky. Maybe you're quiet and intellectual. You might even be in the mold of the famous Notre Domers or possibly the great party-going types that have long existed in the shadow of the Dome. 
In most ways, you're not terribly dif­ferent than your predecessors except that a great many more of you are female. The greatest difference between you and past classes is that there are by far more ofyoo. , 
It's unfortunate, but for many of you,
f your first impression of Notre Dame is that you are jammed into some tiny, dingy room with an inordinate number of other people. It may seem funny to you in 
f 
1 your crowded position to hear this, but it's really no one's fault You are actually part of history and part of an apparent 
trend..
( 
For the past three years, Notre Dame uas noted an upsurge in the number of accepted applicants who decide to come to Notre Dame. The admissions office has a formula in which they accept a certain number of freshmen with the idea that a percentage of them will decide not to <tttend. Generally 50 percent of the ac­cepted applicants come to the Dome and to the other to the other colleges across the country. Yet, in 1972, 54 per cent and this year 59 percent of the accepted ap­plicants decided to come. Notre Dame is not accepting any more freshmen than in the past, it's just thatmorc·and more of those accepted are deciding to come. 
Why? What is so attractive about Notre Dame that is causing it to against tte national trends? 
I 
I wish I could give you the answer to that, but you all will learn soon enough 
that you have to find many of your own
( 
answers here. Oh, there are plenty of 
l 
-~ people who can and will help you. That's one of the things that hopefully will make you happy you decided to come here. People is what Notre Dame is all about 
J 
But then you really didn't know that ( before you got here. So, what did you think about when you signed your letter and told the administration of Notre Dame that you were coming here.·f Womer;!! Right, of course, Notre Dame
( 
is co-ed now, so all you young strapping
( 
lads must have been breaking down the
( 
doors to get in. Wrong. The total of male
( 
applications since Notre Dame' went co­
' ( 
educa tiona! is less on the average than before coeducation. It's a tremendously
~ 
( difficult question to answer and I suppose that you all have your own answer to the ~ question. But this is getting terribly retrospective and I suppose now that ·~ you're here, it doesn't matter why you came. What matters now is, you're at 
:~ 
Notre Dame, so what are you gonna do about it 
You've got many roads open to you because believe it or not, Notre Dame is a place where you can expand and be your own person and develop as you see fit Look around you and realize that you are surrounded by dozens and hundreds of people, all different, a lot of new faces to the campus, all of whom probablv have their own reason for coming to the home of the Dome. . 
Each of them can have an effect on you, if you let them. Or none of them can affect you. The choice is up to you. Just as you are different, just as you have your own reason for coming here, you have the choice of whether you are going to make your four years here worthwhile. And tat choice is relatively simple. There is very little way around it-if you let the people around you affect your life, then your four years should be worthwhile. There are no guarantees to this, of course. But, please excuse the repetition, people are what Notre Dame is all about 
It's very easy at Notre Dame to not let people affect you. It's very easy to close yourself, to drink a lot, to get depressed. to be lonely and to stop reaching out altogether to those people around you. 
Now, you're happy. You've come here. and everything seems rosy. But the longer you stay here, you'll see it hap­pening more often. You'll see your friends so drunk they can't stand up. You'll see people walking head-down on Saturday nights out on the quad. You'll see a lot of loneliness here. But the only 
way  that  the  loneliness  that  so  easily  
sinks in here  can  be elimina ted  is  by  
reaching out.  

Don't be afraid to touch someone while you're here.Don't be afraid to probe and search their conscience and their ego. Don't be afraid to talk, but likewise ac­cept the silence that sometimes spreads ove-r two people after they have traveled through the deepest sectors of their minds. Don't be afraid to' be human. Don't be afraid to be a person.
There are many here before you who have suffered and there are those that have come away better people. In a lot of tose cases, the people wto have come away better, have done so because they reached out to those around them. 
Believe us when we say that we're happyyou're here.Also, know that when we sometimes laugh at your antics, it's only because we're remembering the silly things we did when we were fresh­men. Be happy, be friendly. Question what you doubt and always look for the truth. Trust those around you in the belief that they care for you. Do what you can to 
make Notre Dame better for all of us. Welc_ome and Shalom. 
-Jerry Lutkus 
! the observer 
:( 
Managing Editor: Joe Abell 
News Editor: Anthony Abowd Editorial Editor: Butch Ward Wire Editor: Tom Drape Features Editor: Beth Hall SMC Editor: Maria Gallagher
' ( 
Sports Editor: Vic Dorr via U.S. Mail 
:f I ( i ( 
~ 
Associate Editor: Rod Brave Photo Editor: Joe Raymond Day Editor: Dan Barrett Day Controller: Howard Halle Do-All: Kenny Kampman 
and...super ad sale~men! 
Though it begins to sound tired and even ,empty at times, it still needs to be said. 
This is the beginning. 
Thtre are no ages of coeducation commencing in September 1973 yet there is still something about this fall that commands the r~pect saved for the newly born. For 1800 freshmen, this is the beginning of the most intense and educational living experience of their still young lives. For the cen_tra~ staff of Phillip Faccenda, this is the year when the need for begmmng unison has taken unprecendented importance. 
For those of us who have experienced three years of Notre Dame this is the beginning of the end. ' And that is abruptly awakening many for whom time flows all too 
quickly. 
Three years ago today an excited, naive freshman from a large east coast city upened an imposing wooden door on the first floor of Alumni Hall, and immediately matured immeasurably. 
Since that hot September evening, a lot of his hopes and dreams became as worn and blemished as the walls he found inside that dreary, empty room. 
Yet he still needs to begin again. 
There have been more rooms, just as run down and in need of repair that only an unexhaustible supply of ambition and hope can improve, but those rooms were all livable by the time the door was closed for the last time. 
And now for these 1800 newcomers to the Notre Dame family, the same cold, empty rooms await their opening of that wooden door. 
For those 14 members of the central staff, and for the numerous rectors and hall staffs, many hours of tedious labor precede the ac­complishment of their dreams for bright, coordinated "rooms." 
And for us whom time threatens to desert all too soon, another room awaits our efforts for improvement in the months that remain for us here. 
And it's the last one. 
For those fresh!Jlen, there are at least four years ahead filled with disappointments, accomplishments, dear john letters, pink slips, and football Saturdays. 
The Central staff is certainly interested in achieving a degree of success in this year of innovation, but there will be next year and the next and many more after that to help Notre Dame grow to be a truly Christian community. 
But for some of us our days at DuLac are numbered. 
It's been said often that one should live each day as if it were his last. M Notre Dame too many people come and go and never approximate their potential as a member of this family. 
Before long 1800 frosh will find their beginnings have rolled into blind continuation until they find themselves faced the same realization that the end is at hand. 
But the end for us holds twofold opportunity. First, there is still this year and that room that needs to be painted. 
And then there is the beginnings that follows the end in May. 
Those 1800 freshmen are attesting with their anxious smiles that 
they are excited and apprehensive about 'their beginning, and 'the central staff holds their newly composed philosophy as testimony to their anticipation of things to come. 
But all of their dreams, the freshmen's and the staff's, become futile in the absence of an excitement on the part of that group: who has the least chance to see the fruits of their labors. 
This school needs the leadership that only a senior class can 
provide. 
And that's a tall order. But the senior who stops and considers al! 
that he has to offer and all that he himself can gain by his leadership 
will not hesitate a secund to celebrate this new beginning. 
For not only can he offer immeasurable assistance to th<'se whose ' 
experiences at Notre Dame are just beginning, but the fourth year 
veteran can ready himself for that room awaiting his arrival following 
May. , . 
And that room _demands a constant upkeep. · 
It is indeed asking a lot when everyone at Notre Dame is urged to give it all for another year. While some are exuberant others are tired, disenchanted, and totally apathetic. ' 
But this is the beginning. Anyway you look at it, this room needs us. 
All of us. 

... THE OBSERVER 
.------·-· 
Saturday, September 1, 1973 the observer 
9 

Ms.r:~ivin9s 

Word-pushers 
maria t;~allaiJher 
There is, as most writers know, notting better to be had than a glass of wine, a classic Smith Corona (several keys stick, of course), and a good idea at the end of a day. It's the feeling a jock gets when he beats .te hell out of one of his opponents, or a musician weaving something magical out of air. It's a peace flowing out of unrest with onesself, of having beaten enormous odds and created (remember in grad school, the nuns tid you only God could do that'/) something new in an ancient and overwhelmingly predictable world. 
Writers are a funny bunch. A lot of them don't want to be, but they are. They have to be. It's almost anidiosyncracyin some cases. And while for many of them itserves as merely pleasurable hobby, for others it is a compulsion which they are helpless to beat down. For some it comes easily, 40­words-per-minute, stop, sip wine, proof quickly, 40-words­per-minute, stop, sip, etc. ;for other:; it is a mess of over­stuffed trash cans and sleepless nights, cigarette butt mountains and drained strength before satisfaction can be achieved. 
Why would anyone want to do it for a living? Or, rather, why would anyone choose as their occupation a craft with one of the highest risks of making no living at all? And perhaps worst of all, why would anyone want to work for a newspaper, a profession which everybody knows is despoiled by alcoholic hacks, obscene language, and cancerous smoke-filled newsrooms? The reasons are as individual as the persons in the business. 
William Randolph Hearst Frank N
LincoIn Steffens, • orr1s. Look at Tom Wolfe and Jimmy Breslin, and Gloria Steinem 
and Harriet Van Horne and Russell Baker and Gary Wills. 
, i · ,
Read their stuff, and it sa11 un quely therrs. Perhaps that sa 
. 
large part of the attraction; the chance for self-expressions th t' actl h t •t i Wh t ld be · b 
. h' . a s ex y w a 1 s. a cou so spec1a1 a out a 
an-:1 the ability to stimulate t mkmg. profession that entices Daivd Eisenhower, Lynda Bird . . , Johnson, and Pierre Salinger to join the ranks of those
Th1s w11l have to hold up, because other reasons don t: If you h r h k 'th th · b · th · 
1 1
think journalism will give you a one-way ticket to: a co 0 IC ac s WI err 0 scene ang?age m ~rr can­
cerous newsrooms? 1:ve seen corporatiOn executives get ·r k . t k their pay slashed in half, quit their Muzak-lulled niches and
GLORY-Fat chance, and 1 you rna e a m1s a e your . . , . ,
r~ame's on it You'll hear about it too. From everybody. pound away m the1r shirtsleeves ala .typewnter. 1 ve seen 
• professors lured away from the secure breast of tenure. I've RICHES-Rumor has it that the editor of a mid-sized seen frustrated jocks find peace in the press box. ~astern daily is on welfare. Besides, what little money you . nake gets siphoned into office football pools, ad finitum cups ~s f~r myself. I worked for a newspa_per th1s ~ummer, and >f coffee (or tea) lunch "hours" and bribing your sources. I d1dn t see a steak for three months <still haven t>, never had ' a lunch over $1.50 (of those that didn't come in a brown bag), 
never saw a Cadillac parked in the company lot or a reporter TRAVEL-You'll be lucky if you get to--go on a vacation... whose shoes didn't need reheeling. But I had the time of my
life. · , 
GLAMOUR-Granted, nothing's more glamorous th~n a :>unch of editors at 5:00a.m. Campus journalism is even more dirtball; about the least pretentious thing you'll find anywhere. The people are great 
CAMARADERIE-Witness the Democratic National and that's what it's all about. Take a trip up to the Observer :::onvention, any editorial board meeting, an accidental office (second floor, LaFortune) and who knows, maybe neeting with a politico you ripped in your last column. All are you'lll get hooked by the word-pushers. 
stunning examples (as into the left jaw). 
Just look at the forefathers-H.L. Mencken, Rinl! Lardner, 
Daanesbury!Js SummerBest: 
~N/J NotU­8«1/f/Sf: 'KJ(J /151(/3/) RJR tr-;!I SPGC1.4L 
· •wflleR6111£ Pt?ortt&Nf "{HE PRES/!JENI 
Or f'NE VNIT'e/J 
51"MES/ 
I 
tJRVGE-, /1/Hfl(CH!l MOG(t/KEtY 
GOT flJI<M£ SHERtFFl ot'! HeRE, .JOHN CtllfJ!J£ SH/i.L.I := BOY? t/P SOMEIH/N~ 
-OR 01ii£.RJ
I 
FRilNK, 
YOfJ £Vel? 
IJ&EN /J(/STlfO 
FOR. OOPG? 
\ 
WG !NTE.RR.VPT !HE 
10 BRING '3PEOAL­
~ 

•PRBIOGNT RIOIARP M. NIXON WAS Cl/1?1(1&[) /NTlJ OFFIU ON II 1R£M£NPOf/5 WIIV€ OF P(Y7(Jt.IIR Sl/Pf'()I?T. SOON /lffER, HOWEVER, 
IH& PISHONE5T /INO IU£6/lL /lCrtON5 OF HIS 1110&5 SCAN­
OIILIZED HIS A/JMIN!sm/ITION. 
\ 
11/RN/Ir/ON/ YEP! 1llfll H£ k//15 RI6HT, 7!1ERE'S /1 JOHNilOOK. MllRY-G££-/J,IIN/1 
WH/l( I 36&0/ KtOiL 
= FOf/N[)I /l GeT 7HIR7Y SteP/ YMRS FO!!. 
!111/ITl 
Mt?0/I_SVR£, MIIN 
;;; 60T 8VSTEP 
ONC£ WJIEN 7lllS 
(J)P s,qw M& SMOk!M:3 // JOINT IN Pi/81-./C/ 
''IN lltt Fill~£55 10 HIM, rr sHtJVU? 8£. MJTlio 7H.trrec­CII115E a:INSt'rFICIFNr EVI/Je~KE, 'INSTI6AT10N' WOfiW fJt 11 VfRY 
INAPP~OP~IIlr£ IE~ /0 
t/5& IN P&SCR/8/NG MR.. 
NIXON:S ROt£ IN 1J.I£ 
U/!li&RMTE AFFAIR." 
" 
HEV/ UJO!r HERE! IT'S 
,&/N01H£Rl.. 
= NO, 1H&ff'G 
10 R£1'£/11: IJI<. H//RPIN IS GETTING A PIVORCE rROM RACHEL l 7HA1'S A 
FINAl-.~ 
FREEBIES-If youH you ret.Uy dig 4-H fairs, church suppers, bad movies, and Rotary Club lunches, your social life should be hectic. 
-you •re wrong. 
But If you could dig getting Harlan Ellison's autograph, having dinner with Norman Mailer, an occasional irate phone call from Ted the Head himself, an interview with Ralph Nader, shooting the bull with Marcel Marceau, or getting a free bottle of wine from Father Burtchall, you could be missing out on you chance. All the aforementioned have 
happ~ned to Observer staffers, and so has a lot more we can't
mention · 
Ah , Bet y d'd 't th' k thi · t b "j · 
a. ou 1 n m s was gomg o e a om your
f · dl m ~ , B t it f kl
nen y ca pus newspaper co1umn. u qu e ran y, 
r:~arry trudeau 
•C01'1Pt-IC/rY" /G PR08A8l-Y OlfAY, 
.. .on 
1HOt/f3H. 
\ 


Watergate 
I
(313£Z/
A 
IHflr'S
/JEIILERlt riFTY 
YEAR5, 
/
INN'( trP
I / 
... on arrests 
fJNRJRrt/N,;:jT/3/..~ 
:I UII/S HOtOIN1 VP // GROCERY 5TOI?E //7 IHE 
17M£. 
• • • on justice 
WE NOW R&1f/RN -ro OUR. REGVL-Af<LY SC!-IEDl/LEO 8RD11DCAST. 
••• on ND

' viewers 

(' 
( I 
~, 
the observer Saturday, September 1,. 1~73
10 

Little· Birj··. Sc:rlien Current TV and 
art ferranti 
Introduction 
This column concernsitself with current TV and movie happenings and will appear weekly. This will be the second year of its existence, both years being under my 
direction. I point out the good and the bad of the television shows and movies for the upcoming week so the student who might have an hour to spend on something other than study or sports will have a guide to the best bets on the tube. I will also review movies in South Bend on occasion <when I get a press pass) and inform you of all the little trivial tidbits concerning movies and television since I am one of the trivia ex­perts on the campus. 
TV Listings 
Every week an insert will appear with The Observer which will contain all the TV listings for the upcoming week so I will no longer have to list times. I will also try to have more stills and photos published with the column. My sources are my own knowledge and viewing, wire service releases, and a number of film books and advance schedules from WSBT, WSJV and WNDU. 
I will not bother reviewing what is on the screen in South Bend ths few days will most likely be too hectic for anyone to have time <much less the money) to catch a movie or two at a theater. However, we do have a few good things cooing up on the tube worth mentioning. 
A Man For All Seasons 
Fred Zinnemann's A Man for All Seasons premieres on NBC <WNDU 16) this Wed­nesday marking the beginning of the new seasons in movies <and what a new season it will bel. Starring Paul Scofield as Sir Thomas More, this six Oscar-copping film centers on the conflict between More and Henry the VIII which finally erupts over Henry's affair with Anne Boleyn <played bv Vanessa Redgrave>. Despite the pleadings of his wife and daughter <Wendy Hiller and ~usannah York), More remains adamant in his interpretation of Church law and is sent to prison. Leo McKern plays Cromwell, Henry's chief lackey, yet a powerful figure. 
Orson Welles 
The always imposing Orson Welles appears 
as Cardinal Wolsey and Robert Shaw 
depicts Henry admirably. Truly an ex­
cellent film, some of the best scenes come 
from More's·retrospection in his cell as the 
seasons pass and the final judgement scene 
before the beheadings. The film is taken 
from the play of the same name by Robert 
Bolt. It will be repeated early Sunday af­
ternoon so early sleepers can also view it . It 
is worth it. 
The remaining films present a few thrills 
butnotmuch else. My Son John, a spawn of 
the McCarthy era of the fifties, features 
Helen Hayes, Robert Walker and Van Heflin 
in a terrible film about a mother who fears 
her son is a Communist. ABC had a lot of 
gall rerunning this bit of soapy garbage on 
its Sunday Night Movie. Sailor Beware is a 
Martin and Lewis bit of slapstick which 
should be sunk and put out of its misery on 
Monday night. 
The Beguiled is a movie for sadistic blood 
lovers and Clint Eastwooed fans ( redun­
riant sentence for sure). This one has 
Eastwood all but disemboweled for the 
delight of Elizabeth Hartmand and 
Geraldine Page during the Civil War days_ 
Opposing this NBC replay is The Vatican 
Affair on CBS, its first (and hopefully last) 
TV airing. Walter Pidgeon heads a all­
foreign cast in a caper to rob St. Peter's. 
Spend Friday night away from the set. 
TV Pilots 
. Three TV pilots are also on this week. Murdock's Gang featurf$ ex-newscaster 
I
• 
FEATURING: THE WHO
*TOP LABELS 
B.~. KING1
*NEW RELEASES 
EASY RIDER
*BIG STARS 
RARE EARTH , ·(values to 9.98) 
\ 

r • . • 
) ...
......... . 
•


mov1e happenings 
Alex Drier as a disbarred lawyer who hires ex-cons as members of his detective agency. It rightfully did not make its way on the fall schedule. The Six Million Dollar Man is good for the first 60 of its 90 minutes. Lee Majors plays a test pilot who loses his right arm, left eye, and both legs in a plane crack up. Put together again at a cost of you-know-what, Mr. Majors becomes a cyborg-half man, half machine-ttl become an agent for Darrin McGavin, an Office of Strategic Operations chiefton. Barbara Anderson, the ex-Ironside detective, plays his nurse and the love in­terest. The mock heroics of the last half hour borders on the old Superman days of bubble-gum plots. It will air once a month as 
a ninety-mi.nute ~ini-series .on ~BC this . shows same, including 

STAR
TRIK 
seas~m. MaJors Will also retam h1s weekly role m o.wen Marshall. Toma, to be a weekly AB~ senes, stars Tony Musante as make-up artist-Jon~ cop Da~e Toma, patterned after t~e real hfe ~xplmts. of the ~eward detec­
live. Toma, hke Edd1e Egan m The French 
Connection, has a bit role. Both Musante and Susan Strasberg as his wife are ex­cellent and will continue their roles in the fall series. These air on Tuesday and wendesday nights. . 
Sports-wise, the Lions play the Browris to­night at 7 p.m. on 16. The Cubs try to scuttle the Pirates tomorrow at 12:30 p.m. on 28 while the White Sox try to bedevil the Angels 
at 1:30 p.m. on 16. 
News Retrospective 
The Documentary-specials Dept. has CBS News Retrospective probing the facts behind the fiction of "The Grapes of Wrath" and "Babbitt" in a reprise of a 1968 program at 5 p.m. tomorrow on 22. NBC examines the energy crisis in a 3-hour white paper on Tuesday at 7 p.m. Frank McGee is the anchorman. Sailboats skidding over desert sand highlight the National Geographic special at 7 p.m. Thursday on 28. 
Last but not least, ABC at 7 p.m. will 
of its morning the new Star Trek series at 7:30p.m. The new series will have all the old series actors doing their respective voices, some of'-the original writers and will maintain Star Trek creator Gene Roddenbury as its overseer. 
ro . . . _ The ~otre Dal!le Social ~:ommiSSion 1s 
present1~g the ep1c ~nd clas~Ic bl?ckbu~ter 
Gone W1th The Wmd Registration mght 
<that'.s Tuesday, for all you new Domers) in 
Washmgton Hall at 6 and 10 P·":J· .for $.50 a 
person. Rhett,.Scarlet, and t~e CIVll War are 
wor~h the seemg and reseemg. 
. M1~cellaneou~: ~eruns .for '?any shows 
hke Kung Fu w1ll contmue mto October 
and ":~any ne~ shows ~ike "Kojak" will not 
premiere until that lime also due to the 
writers ninety-day strike this past summer. 
This means that premiere week for the new 
shows which officially begins Sept. 9 will 
this season be over a month long. Good luck, 
America. 
Trivia Question: Every week I will ask a 
triva question and the answer will be 
provided below. Roger Moore, the current 
James Bond in Live and Let Die played 
Simon Templar on The Saint for many years 
on TV. Who played the Leslie Charteris hero 
in the movie series of The Saint in the forties 
and early fifties? 
s.1apues a3Joa!) :Z!no 01 .IaMsuv 


Hundreds of stereo records 
A Passion Play 
to choose from. You're sure to find whatever type of music you like in our large 
3 9 selection of Decca. Capitol. RCA. and other top-notch brands. Take advantage of these fabulous prices. 
Another Hit Reconl Spectacular 

HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
L_ 
SPECIAL FIVE RECORD SETS! BIG BANDS CLASSICAL JNSTR UMENT.AL 
$5.98 
CHICAGO VI JETHRO TULL 
, 
I 
I 
I
SMC food service affected Text of Saga letter 
~ 
Saturday, September 1, 1973 the observer 1 1 


Shortages hit Saga 
Price instability and shortages of some food items will force Saga to modigy their fall menus ac­cordingly, says Saint Marv's food service director CrawfordCaswell. 
In a statement for publication, Caswell recognized the nationwide food crisis and announced cut­backs in several areas, including steak specials and number of servings. 
Effective immediately, all solid meat items such as ham, chicken, and beef will be limited to one serving at dinner only. Two other choices will be available each night with unlimited helpings. 
CIJncerning the elimination of "steak night," Caswell noted, "It's almost impossible to buy beef in any quantity;" therefore, sul stitutions of shrimp or serving of two solid meet choices will com­prise the Satuday night meal. A third item with unlimited portions will also be served, he added. 
. Caswell termed the measures a "drastic step." He was not aware of how other college food services are coping with their problems, but said, "They must be in the same bind we are." 
Despite price increases, Caswell assured students "We'll still serve eggs every morning," although not necessarily fresh eggs if the frozen, pasteurized variety proves cheaper and more readily available. He foresees no shor­tages in seafood, fresh fruits and vegetables, juices and prk. He further empnasized that no matter how severe the shortage, Saga will . not purchase horsemeat. 
"Other than that, we'll use whatever meat is available," he siad. 
Caswell refuses to buy black market beef, although there is "lots of it around." 
"The reason we are switching to substitutions is to maintain our quality standard. We will continue to supply only Grade A, govern­ment inspected products." 
After meat price controls are 
removed Sept. 12, Caswell expects ' 
more beef on the market but 
predicted that "prices will be 
jumping all over the place. We 
won't buy anything until they 
stabilize." 
Caswell refused to speculate on the future. "Even the suppliers can't give you an answer." 
Cri1ne wave thieves nabbed 
Two 17-year old South Bend youths were arreste~ and ultimately found delinquent by the 'St. Joseph County Juvenile Court this summer after a resident of Lyons Hall apprehended the two during an apparent break-in at the hall. 
Ivory Lee Balckwell was sen­tenced to the Indiana Bovs School in Palinfield, just outside In­dianapolis, after the Juvenile Court . found him delinquent, stemming from a charge of loitering in the hall on the University's property. The ruling, which was handed down on July 18, sentenced Balckwell to an in­definite term at the boy's school. The determination of length is up to the school's authorities and the behavior of the youth. 
The second youth was found guilty of burglary, but the sen­tence, four consecutive weekends in the County Jail, was suspended and he was placed on indefinite probation in the custody of his parents. 
According to Director of 
Security, Arhtur Pears, the two were found by the hall resident trying to break into the hall. He apprehended them and held them .until security came to the scene. 
Pears said that the two con­
fessed to and implicated others in 
ten campus crimes over the past 
year. The counts came to seven 
counts of breaking and entering, 
two counts of larceny, one count of 
attempted robbery, one count of 
entry to commit a felony and one 
count of assault on a security of­
ficer. However, the case on each of 
the counts were insufficient and 
conviction was sought only on two counts. 
The confessions of the two cleared up ten recent campus crimes: --the theft of several hundred dollars of camera equipment from 
Timothy Miller Of Howard Hall on Jan. 21, 1973 -a break-in at the Senior Bar on Jan. 23, 1973 -the hold-up of a student as he crossed Greenfield St. in South Bend on Jan. 27, 1973 --a break-in at the A.C.C. on Jan 31, 1973 --the theft of the chalice of Fr. 
SMC faculty 
holds forum 
The faculty and administrationof St. Mary's College gathered last Thursday for a day-long Faculty Forum. 
Dr. Norbert J. Hruby, president of Aquanis College, spoke on the problems of a small private college. 
The day began with a Mass, followed by the introduction of new faculty members by Dr. William Hickey, vice-president for Student Affairs. Dr. Edward Henry, president of SMC, gave the welcoming address and introduced Dr. Hruby. 
A faculty assembly meeting was also held, with departmental meetings, and a picnic for the college faculty, administration staff, and the families on the campus concluding the day's 1ctivities. 
Air Force ROTC...The college scholarship 
program with fringe benefits. 
Some people might need to be coaxed with more than a full college scholarship to join the Air Force ROTC. So, if free tuition, lab and incidental fees aren't enough ... the Air Force offers a monthly allowance of $100.00, tax-free, in your junior and senior years. And free flying lessons to those qualified provide the most exciting fringe benefit of all. 
Interested? Contact: 
Captain Dennis Shepherd 
at the ROTC Bldg. 283-6634 
Find Yourself A Scholarship In Air Force 
ROTC. 
Thomas Shilts from Farley Hall on Feb. 10, 1973 --The assault on a security officer in a campus parking lot on March 4, 1973 after the two were stopped for questioning -the break-in at the Student Union Ticket Office in LaFortune and the theft of tickets for an event -the break-in and burglary at the Observer office --nine counts of larceny at· the Rockne Memorial Building where locks were cut to burglarize students' lockers -a burglary at Pangborn Hall's food sales 
When they were apprehended, the two had a card key to Alumni Hall in their possession, but Pears said that the two were not involved in the armed robbery this spring in Alumni Hall. That crime is still unsolved, he said. 
Pears stated that the two were picked up several times in the past by Notre Dame Security, but never with enough substantial evidence to hold them. He also said that warrants have been issued for two accomplices who are presently serving in the U.S. Armed Forces. 
F~r many years, we at Saga have 
pnded ourselves on being able to 
provide you with a quality food program th~t ~ncluded Saturday steaks, unhm1ted seconds wide entree varieties, special dinners and events, etc. However,like the rest of the United States, we are now caught in the middle of world wide food shortages and drastically rising product costs that are predicted to continue for many months. We wish to assure you that we will do everything possible to maintain a quality program for you, and that 
popular and nutritionally sound meals are available to the greatest extend possible within the limits of hroduct availability and dollars ihat we have to work with. Forthe immediate future, we will have to do things that we have never done before-the use of substiture meat items -menu alternate items on steak nights--limit seconds on some items--menu meatlesss entree more frequently~tc. As supply meets demand and prices stabilize we hope to be able to return to our normal menus. 
In the meantime, we ask for your understanding and cooperation. If you have any suggestions, or wish to meet with me personally, please stop into my office anytime. 
Sincerely, 
Crawford Caswell 
Food Services Director 
ir====================-=====;l 
Thrill your parents with a subscription to The Observer $8.00 a semester or $14.00 a year Fill out the form below and mail it to The Observer Subscription Dept. BoxQ University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, Indiana 46556  
name ____________________________________~ address ____________________________~ city ' state zip_·----l 1 semester($8.00)-1 year($14.00)_--l is this a continuance from last year/semester"?  



t I I j 
I I I I I I t 
t 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
l 
l 
j j 
l 
~ ~ 
j 
I 
~ 
I 
l 
I 
.._j 
I I 

1, 1973 
South Bend in change 
Not enough bull at Notre Da1n 
Notre Dame has not gone unaffected by the recent beef shortage and food price increases that are plagueing the country. According to Food Sevices Director, Edmund T. Price, menus drawn up months ago have already had to be altered. 
Bro. Kiernan Ryan, Asst. Vice President for Business Affairs, said that the budget for the dining halls ahs been upped by 23 per cent over the original figurews with 30 per cent of the jump going for meat costs. 
The only contract that the food services officials have been able to acquire for food supplies is for eggs. Last school year, the egg contract cost the university 'Zl cents a pound. This year the contract calls for 52 cents a pound. 
The two big problmes that face food services are the cost of food and its availability, said Ryan. Price emphasized that the menus had to be altered because certain items are just not available in large quantities. 
"25 of the new board rates will go for food. It won't even be able to come close to the increase. We'll have to bite the bullet somewhere 
... , .... ,. t• •~ •~ ~. ­
AUDITIONS 
for Mixed Choral Ensembles at Notre Dame 
University chorus polyphonic choir chapel choir 
Wed., Thur., Fri. 1-4 p.m. 
Sign.up outside Room 247 Men-Watch for Glee Club auditions 



---J 
atnlnnial 

'·'Enjoy a snack or dinner" 
35 Varieties of Pancakes Chicken -Steak -Sandwiches 
U.S. 31 (Dixieway) North Your Host (Across from Holiday Inn) Bob Edwards '50 
American National Bank 
the bank that's nearest you 
---Located on the corner of Angela and Michigan Ave. 
---Full service banking Open Fri. Eve till 7 p.m. 
--We have installed a bike rack for your convenience. 

along the way," Ryan said. member FDIC 
First concert of the yearIll 





THE TEMPTATIONS 
-.:_--------["'!rw, 
•J 
.. ·.. ... . • t' ••• '.' ' • \ •• '. ·­


111111111111111! llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllli'1111111111 II1111111111111111111111111 II11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 111111111111 II1111111111111111111111111111111111111111llllllllllllRIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIH1111111111111111111111111111 II11111111111111111111 II1111111111
= = 
~ ~ 
~ The Observer needs ! 
I ~ I ~ 
,I · --iwriters and artists = = = = i / ~ 
i §
I' i § I § § typists
I I
photographers 
~ ~ 
= = 
= 5
= = 
~ proofreaders and layout 1 
~ §
E E
= = 
= = 
subscription and eire ulation workers 

,_. 
and just about anything else you can think of 
e 
i 
II . . lllllllillilniiRIIiimDin'~nfuiJhin~DIInilmmDiiiiiiHIHIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIHI.MIIIIIIIIMM"III.1.111111---1111111111=--"-· ..i. 


14 the observer Saturday, September 1, 1973 
l( 
).' 
{ 
\ 
J 
/ 
\ 
~ 
' 
" 
f; I' 
:~· 
1; 1) 
t)I(
l. 
~ 
I'( 
v 
~~ ~ ' 
1)) 
) i J 
;j, 
~ 
: ~ 
)),f 
v 
J 
I 
I 
t 
A busy summer at Notre Dame 
25,000 men, women and children from all over the world flocked to Notre Dame for the Charimatic Conferenc-e. "The Pentecostals" spent a weekend in June at the campus and met in prayer sessions at the Stadium where football athletes generally exhibit their talents. ln addition to the huge prayer s.-o:sions, the people met in group · ·~etings, lectures and workshi. 
The bf' -ch on St. Joseph Lake (right) another center of sum­mer a, .rity, as this comely women ticates. The beach is open on 1 faculty, their families, student· td those people inolved 
0'( onnor 
kil-~ed 
Franc P. O'Connor, a sophomore business major from Oklahorr.-_ City, Oklahoma, was shot and ><:illed there Wednesday night. 
Fr. Ttrry Lally, rector of Stanford Hall where O'Connor lived, am.ounced that the midnight mass Saturday in Stanford will be a memorial service for O'Connor. 

ND installs super COlllputer 
There's a new light show on campus and it's playing at -the computer center. 
For the third time in two years, Notre Dame is installing an im­proved computer system. The new machine is an IBM model37Q-158. The light show is the TV console that monitors the computers operations whenever human input is needed. The console replaces a printer that used to serve the same 
purpose. 
The computer and most of its accompanying devices have been moved behind the glass vieWing area that was occupied by the old UNIVAC computer until last year. 
IBM and computer center personnel spent over a week in­stalling the new equipment and testing parts of the system before the outgoing IBM 370-155 was turned off for good Thurdsay morning. Regular service is scheduled to resume Tuesday morning,at 8:00. 
For now, at least, anyone can watch the 24 hour light show by just walking in the main door at the computer center. 
with Notre Dame. The action was taken by the university to preserve the area for the relaxation and enjoyment of its people. 
Rev Forrestal dies at 84 
who seved the Spanish-speaking 
community in the South Bend 
area as spiritual director for 
several years, died Sunday evening in Holy Cross House at the University of Notre Dame at the age of 84. He had been in ill health since 1968. 
Following his ordination on June 25, 1915, at Notre Dame Father Forrestal taught at St. Edwards until 1935 when he became professor of Spanish and Spanish Literature at Notre Dame. He served as counselor to Chicanos until his retirement from teaching in 1962 and as a member of the migrant worker apostolate until 1968. Several articles he authored on the history of the southwest and Mexico have been printed in state and national publications. 
Father FOrrestal is sirvivied by two sisters, Mrs. Mary Doyle and Mrs. Hrigid Carroll, Country Wexford, Ireland. 
The memory space in the new computer's Central Processing Unit (CPU) is fifty percent larger than in the 37Q-155's CPU. 
(The CPU is the portion of the computer that actually executes the instructions in a given
program.) Like its predecessor the 37Q-158 is set up to handle up to seven programs simultaneously. "Multiple programming," as this feature is called in the industry literature, was the breakthrough achievement to so-called third 

BICYCLE CENTER 
1437 Portage Ave. Phone 287-1673 
Ask for student discounts 10 SPEED RACERS Hours: Daily 9: 30-5:30 Mon. till 8:30 Oli HAND FOR IIIIIIIEDIAT£ We service all makes DELIVERY! 
ND men lose 
at GPA game· 
AP-The University of !'lotre Dame's first full-time girl students, outnumbered 17 to I by males, didn't let the social situation distract their minds from classes. 
The university has reported that the 365 coeds had an over-all grade point average of 3.12 in the first term compared with the univer­soty average of 2.94. 
Notre Dame expects to increase its feminine enrollment to 775 next fall in a total student body of 6,700. 
generation computers like the IBM 370. 
Unlike its predecessor the 370­158 has "virtual memory. "This feature can be used to increase the capacity of the CPU up to 1000 percent. 
Computer center personnel are not certain of the exact im­provement in efficiency and capacity that the virtual memory will give the new system. Plans are underway to begin testing its effect after most of the problems in the system have been eliminated. 

Choir auditions 
Auditions for the mixed choral ensembles at Notre Dame will be held next week. Freshmen will be auditioned Monday at 7 to 9:30 
p.m. and Tuesday from 1 to 5 p.m. All students may be auditioned on 
-Wednesday, Thursday and Friday from 1 to 4 p.m. A sign-up sheet is posted outside room 247 of O'Shaughnessy Hall so the students may sign up for their most convenient time. The choral programs for mixed voices are the University Chorus under the direction of David lsele which presents concerts, the Polyphonic Choir under the direction of Patrick Maloney which specializes in the music of the 16th and 17th centuries, and the 
Chapel Choir under the direction of Sue Seid which sings at the 10:45 
a. .m. Mass on Sundays in Sacred 
Heart Church. All auditions will be held in room 
247. Audition information for the Glee Club has yet to be announced. 
THE NOTRE DAME-SAINT MARY'S THEATRE 
announces TRYOUTS Shakespeare's RICHARD Ill O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM (Saint Mary's) 
ptember 5 and 6 at 7 p.m. Call backs -September 7 
(Information on tryouts may be 
obtained from Speech and Drama 
Department  office,  Room  110,  
Moreau Hall, Saint Mary's)  
OPEN  TO  ALL  ND-SMC  STUDENTS  

NEED A CHEST OF DRAWERS 
buy it unpainted...save Y, or morel 
, how about a rug? 
Big savings on all sizes Comolete selection of 
NEWEST STYLES AND COLORS 
ust about everything in bookcases, chests, record cabinets, end tables... you name it! 

WILLIAM'S 
Rugs and unpainted 
furniture and Notre Dame Student Union 
ON CAMPUS 
at the old fieldhouse 
lso at 2609 South Michigan St. South Bend 
and 
1217 East McKinle 

Mishawaka 

I 
PAPER~MATE. 
G)~Tio®® 
\mlW~ 
19¢ ball pens 
Notre Dame Bookstore 
I
t \ .. ' I ···; ·..... ,.t 1 ·'!:•.. -.'.t '.. •• ~, 
Saturday, September 1, 1973 the observer 1 5 
Frankie's changes owner, name 
by Maria Gallagher St. Mary's Editor 
Notre Dame students have long been noted for their prowess with the brew, but few have ever bought more than a deg at a time, much less 10 kegs, 250 cases of beer, 50 cases of wine and 175 cases of liquor at one time. 
Of course, a restaurant came with that purchase. 
Notre Dame graduate Rick Kanser ('73) recently purchased Frankies restaurant on Notre Notre Dame Ave., and expects lots of help from his fellow Domers to 
ket:p his business going. So far he 
has invested over $8,000 in a new 
bar and various other renovations. 
"The Library," as it has been renamed, will offer students "a clean place where they will be treated with respect and not subjected to ridiculous prices," according to the new proprietor. 
"South Bend has never really had a good student bar, and students hve been ripped off all over town," Kanser commented from personal experience. "Thev deserve better because they are potentially good business." 
The restaurant's image is Kanser's foremost concern. "Business has gone downhill here the past two years," he noted. "I'd like to change that right away." 
For starters, Kanser has redecorated and installed new game machines, and expects lJn all-female crew of bartdnders in the fall. The Library will continue to serve food, but the greasy pizza of old will be replaced by a type of thick-crusted Sicilian pizza or­deredfromChicago. The restaurant will open daily at 11 for lunches and will still sponsor "dinner specials." Live bands will be featured on weekends. 
This is Kanser's first business venture. Just barely over In­diana's legal drinking age himself, he gained previous experience as a bartender at the Senior Bar. He plans to expand his staff in the fall to "30 or 40 Notre Dame students and graduates." 
Summer business has packed the establishment on weekends, and an even greater volume is ex­pected when the students returr., but Kanser said he plans no further expansion. 
"At this point, I can't afford it, but I'd also like to keep the place small." He feels his place of business will have a "friendlier atmosphere" than the larger bars in town. 
Kanser also feels that the mark of a good business is a concerned owner. He speculated that the reason business had slacked off in several places around town was because the owners were never there, or obviously didn't keep close tabs on their places and personnel. 
"Customers notice these things. If an owner doesn't really ca1·e, his place reflects it. Just being there can make a big difference. Kanser will literally be "living" there--Qn the second floor. 
He modestly disclaims any credit for the establishment's new name, which was first suggested as a joke. "That was Rich Sher­man's idea," he admitted. Kanser himself was out playing golf when the new sign for the front arrive. 
Foundation grant establishes Civil Rights Center at N. D. 

A Ford Foundation grant of $500,000 to establish a Center for Civil Rights at Notre Dame was announced Saturday, July 21 by Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, president of the university and former head of the U.S. com­mission on Civil Rights. 
"Our nation is now in retreat from the civil rights advances of the last 20 years," Hesburgh noted, and "there is an urgent need for research into America's recent civil rights history, for analysis of current civil rights issues, and for recommendations designed to meet the problems of today and of the immediate future." 
McGeorge Bundy, president of the Ford Foundation, agreed with Hesburgh's assessment of the civil rights situation and commented in a statement, "Nothing could be­more timely than Fr. Hesburgh's decisiOn to give his own leadership to a determined effort to assemble in one place the resources needed for understanding of the road that we have come and the distance will still have to go. Fr. Hesburgh's 15 years of service on the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights, and his standing as a churchman of profound personal integrity in­tegrity and intense social com­mittment, make him the ideal catalytic agent for such a center and Notre Dame its fitting home. The Ford Foundation continues to place the imperative of equal opportunity at the top of its domestic agenda." 
Appointed director of the center was Howard A. Glickstein, a former staff director of the U.S. 
Howard A. Glickstein Commission on Civil Rights. Glickstein wiHalso be an adjunct professor in ND's Law School. Space for the center has been created in the expanded Notre Dame Law School building, . and will house. the papers of Hesburgh amassed during his tenure on the Civil Rights Commission. Hesburgh was among the original members of the commission ap­pointed in 1957 by President Dwight Eisenhower, was named chairman of the commission in 1969 by President Nixon and resigned last fall at the President's request. Hesburgh said the objectives of the center included engaging in public policy analysis in the fields of civil and human rights; analyzing in depth existing civil rights problems and 'proposing solutions; preparing a history of civil rights developments during 
the period 1957 to 1972; serving as a 
catalyst--through sponsorship of 
conferences and lectureships and 
through a planned advisory 
council--for proposals dealing with 
civil rights problems; serving as a 
clearinghouse for civil rights in­
formation, and serving as an 
educational resource for political 
science and law students at Notre 
Dame. 
The center's director, 
Glickstein, is an attorney with a 
wide background in civilrights. A 
Dartmcuth Collep;e graduate who 
received his LL.B. from Yale in 
1954 and an LL.M. from 
Georgetown in 1962, Glickstein 
spent five years with the Civil 
Rights Division of the Dept. of 
Justice where he worked on ap­
pellate cases and was involved in 
the drafting of the Civil Rights Act 
of 1964 and the Voting Rights Act of 1965. 
He left the Justice Dept. in August, 1965, to t>ecome general counsel of the U.S: Commission on Civil Rights. He served as acting staff director of the Commission following the director's resignation in September, 1968 and was nominated by President Nixon as permanent staff director in June, 1969. It was during his. term that the Commission issued its first comprehensive report evaluating the efforts of the federal govern­ment in enforcing civil rights laws. 
He resigned as staff director in August, 1971, and subsequen_tly worked for the ·Leadership Con­ference on Civil Rights on educating the public on the issue of school desegregation and busing. 
w=====================:=:=:=:=:=:~=~=~==;~:==t::=~~~~:===~=:::=:=======================================================::::::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=========:=:;==========:=:=:=:=:=:::::::::::=:=====:=:=:=:=======:::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=======:=:=:=:=:=:=:::=:=:=:=l 
:=:= ..... :·:tv~·· ~...,· i:-.-·,_,.·. FRESHMEN I I I =:=: 

·:·: ~ ll ,.\,:··. . . • • • :-:· 
brighten .up that dull camp~ room with a beautiful SHAG from: 
·.·. ©l&~LPrntr ID~~Lro ··-· 
I*all types of car:e~: S;~;:eB:~~-~~::e~1alc;:';Sale I! ! I 
\\j[ *cut to any shape or size reduced rates to f'( ,D.. students .J jf *close to campus with mention o.f.;j~(s,._af;/.,' :,: .~j~ 
~:::::::::::::::::;:::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::;:;:::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::::::::::::.::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:; 
"I really didn't think they'd do it," he grinned. 
Kanser first got the "crazy idea" of running a bar in October of his senior year. He had originally planned to build a new place, and had an option on some property on the site of Crypt Records and the adjacent car wash at the S:)Uth Bend Ave.-Corby-Eddy in­tersection, but his loan request fell through. 
He was then approached by Frankies' owner Frank Billelo, and was able to get a loan for the purchase. But financing will weigh heavily on him for a long time. 
"It's a question of being debt for the next ten years," he said. "But I'd still like to build the new place eventuall)'." 
In the meantime, Kanser's have a great time making The Library a "great student bar." And who would know better how to do it than 
a student. 
News & Book Center 


EtCOME BACK STUDEN 
*MAC'S RECORD RACK* 
2925 Mishawake Ave. 
next to River Park Theater 
* lp's *needles *special *record 
orders cleaning equipment
*tapes 
If we don't have it, we 'II get it 
on sale now-Santana, Mclaughlin, Tulf 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
1 13 W. Washington in downtown South Bend 
A complete selection of 
*Novels 
*Hardbacks *Greeting 
*Sci-fiction Cards *Comics 
*Film 
Also the largest selection of paperbacks & magazines 
Mad, National Lampoon re Ill 
HELP WANTED 
Wanted: Typists for The Ob· server. Afternoon and evening work on a regularly scheduled basis. Salary begins at Sl.60 per hour. Call Joe Wilkowski at 1715 or call at The Observer office on third floor, La Fortune Student Center. 
Wanted: Reporters, photographers, layout personneL and every conceivable position for work at The Observer. Good promotion possibilities--rumor has it that 3 good weeks of work and you too can become an editor. Drop in The Observer office or call in at 1715. At least stop in and pay us a visit on 
Activities Day and Activities 
Night. Third floor, LaFortune 
Student Center 
Part time bartenders, waitresses and waiters needed. Students only inquire. Ask for Mike. 
Red Door Club 1101·'> N. Main 233-9277 
FOR SALE 
pandora's has books for the·se freshman classes: Art 151; Collegiate Seminar 180; Economics 180; English 109,180, 185; Government 180; History 111, 115; Law 180; Math 105, 125-126; Philosophy 101; Sociology 111; Speech and Drama 180; Psychology 111; Theology 111, 117. Plus thousands of other books NEW & USED up to 40 per cent off list price. Located at corner of South Bend Avenue and St. Louis Blvd. 
(just go down Notre Dame Avenue to South Bend, turn right and we're three blocks away l City bus from N D stops in front of the store. Books bought, sold & traded. Phone 233-2342. 
Wanted 
Wanted: Used girl's bicycle. Don't really care what shape it is in, but would prefer a three­
speeq.?i~~·-,· Call Beck_~ at 6993. 
... >. \., .... £'. . . .. 
. 
.. 

16 the observer Saturday, September 1, 1973 
Pre-fall litany:'How good is ND?. 

By Vic Dorr Sports Editor 
A summer passes. An autumn takod" plaoe. Aod "mewhe•e io between, just as surely as the , seasons mesh into another, college football's pre-season litany begins . And contained in that litany is·always the question: "What about 
be this season?" it's always a legitimate question, and often a question with as many answers as it has askers. 
1973's pre-season litany is treating the Fighting Irish in just that fashion. . 
Ara Parseghian's ·tenth Notre Dame football team may well be considered a pre-season enigma. The Irish will be competitors-as Parseghian squads always are-­but attempting to discern apything beyond that is virtually im­possible. 
The last two games of the 1972 -"Otl'f' flame halfback Eric Penick, shown here in the 1972 contest witt­season are two ;·easons the ·'hr:<:tian Universi•:· h one ·Jl the retun:ing offensive team analysis is so difficult. The Irish , -,., ·oat-:"' '-..-,Jsterth· ··-nk: of the 1-t;'llrish football team. were shellacked in both of the contest.;, 45-2:' by Southern Cal and _, ::::::::::::·:·:·:·::::::::::::::::::::::.:=:·:=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 10-6 by Nebrasi:il. And still, '.'.''leJ!
it cam·· '.Ire·· to -id !9'1<o pre­
;cn~-i)i-~ ~;_:·,··,rHe, ~~-:~a,~ :~.~~­
nab.:,o.~,l •': ;i:-~-': -.-.~,-~~;;: ·L~~· • ·~~ '.; 
,,.__,:,-:1, -. 1.-~;-_ ·:: -·_:-·--ld :--~~~­
'U -.:...-~gends '
!r,,.,h .--·y ·:.·ill '•: th~ : · coun;;·•: · fhe. other pt~·ser~·-·· 
·--• ..rhal'k o;-om : ter··~nt:., the signal caller fr01 last yea.r's H-3 Irish 
prognosticators haven't been quit• 
squad. limbers up his throwing :um in anticipation of Notrr D",me's home 
so optimistic. The UPI coaches 
open•·r on Sept. 22 against the Northwestern Wildcats.
l·, ;c,,, lhe beginning, there have always been legends surrounding 
board says 12th. Street and
i'':•ire Uame football. Smith's picks ND sixth, but places All-Americans. ND 's graduated defensive co­
'.:'h• legends started forming in 1902 with Louis "Red" Salmon, ND's the Irish ahead of Nebraska, The players· picked for pre­captain, All-America tackle Gregfirst big-name performer. They continued in 1913, when Rockne and Alabama, Oklahoma and Penn season laurels--again, Playboy did Marx. Dorais stunned the Army with a barrage of forward passes, and kept State. the selecting--were ND's tri­Two returning kickinggrowing during the 20's and early 30's, when Rockne, Gipp and a series of Anson Mount, Playboy's resident captains for the upcoming cam­specialists round out the core of superb Irish squads--including the famous Four Horsemen team of 1924-­paign: offensive guard Frank Parseghian's '73 squad. Bob
seer, tabs ND for a number seven
made Notre Dame the nation's premier college football power. Pomaricc, defensive back Mike Thomas, who did not miss an extra
finish and a 9-1 record. "With an
During the next decade there was coach Elmer Layden and a 1935 Irish easy schedule and more talent Townsend and tackle-turned tight point try last fall, and who hit on team which participated in, possibly, the most dramatic college football than a year ago,'' offers the caustic end Dave Casper. But those three seven of 11 field goal tries On­game ever staged. Mr. Mount, "it will be a major are just the beginning. Quar­eluding three from outside 45 
Playing at Ohio State on Nov. 2 of that year, Layden's team found itself terback Tom Clements also yards), and Brian Doherty who
disaster if Notre Dame loses more
down 13-Q entering the fourth period. Then, as 80,000 rab.d Buckeyes returns, as do running backs Eric punted for a 38.4 average, both
than one game."
watched, the Irish roared from behind and won the game, 18-13 on a last­return for their final seasons with
The schedule may not be the Penick, Art Best and Waynegasp touchdown pass from a quarterback with the unlikely name of Bill nation's toughest, but neither is it a Bullock, receivers Willie Town­ND. 
Shakespeare. send and Pete Demmerle and Notre Dame will open its !973
cakewalk. Traditional Big-10
But the dramatics weren't all Layden's. The next ten years brought Gerry DtNardo, the other guard. campaign at home on Sept. 22,
foes Purdue and Michigan State,
Frank Leahy, The Master. Leahy, during his tenure at duLac, won four Parseghian's defense will also against Northwestern's Wildcats.
explosive Air Force and a deep­
national championships and during the years 1946-50, did not lose a single come back strong. Returning And that game will have more than
Southern battle with the Rice Owls
ball game. There were several ties, including a memorable o-o deadlock all loom as potential stumbling starters Reggie Barnett and Tim its usual season-openingwith Army in 1946, but they scarcely affected the mystique of Leahy's blocks for the 1lrish. Rudnick will join Townsend in the significance. For Parseghian,legions. But the high point of Notre defensive backfield. Linebackers prior to last year's debacle in the 
The 50's and early 60's were grim years for Notre Dame, but the famine Drew Mahalic, Tim Sullivan, Gary Orange Bowl, had never been
Dame's season is located in the
lasted only un~il 1963. The following year the reins of the Irish football Potempa and Gary Collins also beaten by ?. margin larger than 22
middle of the schedule. One week 
program were assumed by an intense, enthusiastic young man out of after Army, one week week before return, as do defensive linemen points, and had never had a losingMiarr.i of Ohio by way of Northwestern. His name was Ara Parseghian, 
Navy: Oct. 27.--Southern California George Hayduk, Kevin Nosbw::ch streak longer than one game.
and he began, immediately, to sculpture a new era of Irish grid-iron at Notre Dame. That game, at the and Mike Stock. · "I would suggest," Ara said in legend. very least, should be the season's The final defensive returnee is the somber Orange Bowl 
The "Era of Ara" wfll enter its lOth season this season this fall, but sophomore tackle Steve Niehaus. lockerroom, "I would suggest that 
most emotional contest. At most,
briefly, during the past summer, Notre Dame fans returned their at­we would want to come. back. That
it could be played for the National Sidelined with a knee injury
tention to an earlier era--to the 30's and 40's. Championship. prior to last year's game with we would want to prove that we're For during a nine-<lay span in June-from the 22nd to the 31rst--Frank If the talent is better than last Missouri (a four-point Irish loss), a better football team than we Leahy and Elmer Layden both passed away. year, as Playboy says it is, then the Niehaus recuperated during me showed to9ay." 
Layden was 70. He enrolled at Notre Dame in 1921, and was the improvement has been bought with winter months and, by the end of And in three weeks, with fullback in Rockne's Four Horsemen backfield of '24. That year, the Irish maturity. spring practice, had rejoined his basically the same team he fielded outscored their opponents by a margin of 258-44, and trounced Stanford, 14 starters return from last mates on the number one defensive against the Cornhuskers, Ara 27-10, in the Rose BowL Layden who doubled as a defensive back, scored year's 8-3 team, including a team. Parseghian-and the Notre Dame twice against the Indians. He returned a pair of interceptions for touch­quarterback, the entire defensive And at 6-5, 265, a healthy Niehaus football program--will get their downs, galloping 78 and 70 yards for scores. backfield and a of P_l'~'--"''"'"'uu ...~. be the ret1lac:ement "come_back." 
¥ :~-:?:" -------~ -­
As a coach for seven seasons, beginning in 1933, Layden compiled a 47-~ ~--¥
~ -~-­
13-3 record. But that record, though impressive, could not compare with the one amassed by his successor just over a decade later. Leahy, who was 65 when he died at Oregon's Good Samaritan Hospital, won 87 games_, lost 11 and tied nine duririg his 12-year career at ~.D. He came to South Bend following Layden's reurement, and fash10ned 
an undefeated season for his first Irish team and Coach of the Year honors for himself. And with players like Johnny Lujack, George Con­nors and Ziggy Czarobski yet to mature under The Master's stern, erudite system, the best was yet to come for Francis William Leahy and Notre Dame football. 
"The Best" included five additional unbeaten seasons, the four national titles and an .888 winning percentage. It also included one of the most memorable rivalries in college athletics-the N.D.-Army series of the 40'' 
" hat series, which had generated plenty of enthusiasm and an equal ~ , • ..mt of ill-feeling in earlier years, peaked in '46 with the o-o tie and ·din '47 when Leahy's Irish dismantled the then-faltering Cadets, 27­
• 
·series has long sine!.' resumed, but the Cadets of coach Tom Cahill "the Black Knights··· 'he Hudson once fielded by Red Blaik. And it 
t: possible the ser<-il never regain the prestige it once held. 
,l. 
,; has been recal:, "'''' Lmporarily. is t!w prestigf' of the man '+ ·-1ched the Irh,:, . ::": ~·~ries. And uo '>ne was more willing -~ ,_cone-time ri'. ,,· •: e'u10gize the depa!·tc>d ".eahy. 
•n't think I'"·: d· • ::t·,;e by what I'n.-, ~lying," off:!red Blaik. >k me severl'i ,-,.,,~r·rstand Frar'· •.,ahy, and I am better ~'X(W!'ience, c"c . a genuinely fi>: · ,md inspira,ional man. 
-lil': had only '"'·. ·,, :;: . his teams won too often, and even .e had no better··~ ...; .. i::deed, I am saddened by the passing of my 
·~·-·-~ ·-~· 
:()nd." 
.•,:t.~~i:f'· :..
k, whose sadnc;r ·,; ;,-:: ·•hrtred by many associated with the Notre r athletic program, r>:;ght have added one thing. Men like Leahy 
Notre Dame coach Ara Parseghian poses with the tri-Casper and Defensive Back Mike Townsend. All three ;, :tmer Layden certainly won't be forgotten. The Legend will see to captains of the 1973 edition of the Fighting Irish. From have been mentioned as pre-season All-American left to right, Guard Frank Pomarico, Tight End Dave candidates. 









