
On The Inside 
SMC Board to meet ..... page s NO beats Villanova ..... page 11 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's commun y
Vol. VII, No. 72 Friday, February 2, 1973 
Discusses dorms, security 

Hesburgh talks in Flanner pit 
by Jim Eder Staff Reporter 
I don't think that we need coed dorms here at Notre Dame." Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh told a group of 200 students who crowded the Flanner "Pit" for an hour­long question-and-answer session with the university's pr<'sident last night. 
"Some schools need to have men and women living in dose contact with one another," he explained, "but I feel that we have enough variety among the people and halls here to make life interesting without having coed dorms." 
When asked to explain his position on having women undergraduate students live off-campus, Hesburgh said. "Our effort right now is"to get as many women on campus as quickly as possible. The goal is to have over 1000 women living here within the next two years. Having them Jive off-campus would defeat this pur­pose." 
"The soeiallife can get pretty dreary around here at times. especially at this time of year," Hesburgh admitted. "but I believe it will improve when more girls are brought to the. campus. Still, I think social life. is better today than it ever was---certainly better than wlwn I started here twenty years ago." 
Commenting on security at Notre Dame, Hesburgh said that it is impossible to have fool~proof security. "There are just too many opportunities for someone to do something bad if he wants to. The ideal is to spend a limited amount of money on security and rely on the people of the community to provide some of their own." 
The president did admit, however, that things could be improved. ''I spoke with H-man (Dennis Etienne) this morning about setting up a meeting between students and the security people. Dr. Faccenda is working on that now." 
Questioned about the expulsion of a Lewis Hall resident for a parietals violation, the president said that "the case was handled in the only way it could have been at the time." According to Hesburgh, who was away from the campus at the time of the incident, there was no precedent for the case because when the hall was built. he decided not to establish a definite eode of behavior for the graduate students. 
When asked to give his opinion on the recent Supreme Court ruling on abortion, Hesburgh said, "I think it's terrible. The fetus is the most helpless being in the whole world, and it is getting no protection from thl' selfishness of human beings. I don't think that one can stand up for the underdog as I have tried to--black or brown or woman or chicano or whatever--and not stand up for the most helpless of all beings, which are unborn children." 
lies burgh went on to say. "The moral health of this country is very much related to its respect for life--its rl'spect for people. If this country sinks into broad immoral practices, then we will all pay for it in the long run." 
Speaking on the topic of civil rights, Hesburgh said, "I think that we will be facing tough days ahead, because there is a lot of lost enthusiasm for the cause. I noticed during the last few months that I was in charge of the Civil Rights Commission that it was becoming increasingly difficult to get the government and people to be responsive." 
llesburgh announced that he plans to form a civil rights center in the Notre Dame Law School, where there will be an extensive library dealing with the subject. He has already asked the Ford Foundation for a grant of a half million dollars to finance the project, and he is awaiting their reply. "I hope that we can then hold a national conference here every year to focus on thl' precise points of greatest importance to the movement." 

Though the long-range effect of the new appearance of the Huddle won't be known for a while, many students are now finding the disadvantages of having to wait in two lines: one for service, one to pay. (Staff photo). 
Faccenda: University to force only 100 OC 
by John Abowd Editor-in-Chief 

Only about 100 students will be forced off campus next year when the student affairs office eliminates the present dormitory overcrowding. according to Dr. Philip Faccenda, acting vice presidnt of student a Hairs. 
Speculation throughout the past two weeks had put the figure at over 300. 
Faccenda made the announcement at a press conference last night. Frs. James Flanigan. James Shilts and James Riehle, nwmbers of the central staff of the Vice President of Student Affairs office also fielded questions. 
There are presently 185 freshmen living in rooms that will not be used next year. These students are the last of the 325 frosh who were invoived in the on campus housing shortage at the beginning of the school year. 
"We promised that the dormitory overcrowding would be a one year oc­eurence and I don't think we can go back on our word." Faccenda said. · 
The vice president defended his prediction of 100 students by referring to the ratio of on campus to off campus ~tudents from 1967. The average per­centage of off campus students for those six years was 20.4. In every year except 19fi9 the figure was over 20 percent. 
Faccenda predicted that 22.5 percent of the student body would have to live off eampus next year. Since no increase in enrollment is planned, this means that about fifteen hundred undergraduate students (out of 6725) will not be able to live on campus. 
Currently 1427 students live off campus <21 percent l. The difference between the trend figures and the 1973-74 prediction is the basis for the estimate of only 100 ~tudents forced off campus. 
"We are making this estimate based on historical trends. We could be off by as much as 100. That is, we might have to force no one off campus. We do not expect that the figure will be much higher than 100." Faccenda added. 
The normal attrition rate during the first month of the school year is 100 students, according to Riehle. director of student housing. When this consideration is made, the final breakdown is· 6625 total un­dergraduate students with 5110 on campus and 15Hi off campus. 
Faccenda denied that the housing shortage was caused by guaranteeing female transfer students on campus residency. 
"Notre Dame only accepts transfers to fill vacancies that already exist in the upper classes," Faccenda said. He added that there are usually 125 vacancies which represent about 100 empty on campus beds. 
The fact that all female transfer students are . :,aranteed on campus housing while m ·ie students are not was not important, according to Faccenda, because most male transfers who wanted to move on campus could do so during tp~ first month of the school year. 
When asked about a possible reveFSal of the rule which prohibits fMJ"!!i"le un­dergraduates from living o(f' campus, Faccenda said "We have as~d the male students to disrupt their liyes considerably to make room for the women. I don't think it's too much to ask lbe women to disrupt their lives slighty 
"These are tht>· terms under which we offered admissiQn to females," he con­tinued. 
The vice .President contended that students moving off campus that are not anticipated "cause almost 100 percent loss to the university." 
He noted that the number of females involved was "probably very small," but added that in the second year of coeducation Notre Dame would still have difficulty accurately predicting trends with female students. 
The student affairs office recommended the admission of 450 more women students next year. "This is more than the quota recommended by the academic com­mittee. It represents the absolute upper limit in which we could recruit in our second year," Faccenda said. 
The committee which will decide how to relocate the displaced Farley and Breen­Phillips :;.tudents will meet for the first time today. According to Faccenda, the chariman. the agenda is: 
--formulation of recommendations on how to offer space in the remaining residence halls 
--recommend methods to select 100 students who will be forced off campus. 



at 8:15 p.m. in Sacred Heart Church of the University of Notre Dame Friday Feb. 9. The program is sponsored by the Concert Series of the Music Department and is open to the public without charge. 
A native of Grand Rapids, Mich., the artist is presently serving as an instructor of organ music in Philadelphia. 
Several selections by Johann Sl.'bastian Bach. including "Sin­fonia." "Three Choral Preludes," "Concerto IV," "Fugue A' La Gigue," "Vivace" and "Prelude and Fugue in A Minor" will make up the first part of his Notre Dame program. Other selections will include "Christmas" by Dethier; "Prelude, Cantilene and Scher­
zando" by Pierne. 
Cancer grant 
The University of Notre Dame received a recent medical grant of $9,000 from the United Cancer Council at the Council's nth an­
, nual meeting in Indianapolis. The
, 
check was presented to Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C.,
~
, president of the University by Mrs. Howard Williams, vice-president 
! r 
of the UCC. 
The fund will support a post­doctoral :fellowship for research in immuno-therapy in the Lobund Laboratory, directed by Dr. Morris Pollard, who was also present at the ceremony. 

Dupont grant 
The University of Notre Dame has received a $5,000 grant from the E. I. Du Pont De Nemours and Company, Wilmington, Del., for support of chemical engineering studies in the College of America. 
An explanation accompanying 
the gift noted "there are a small 
number of national universities 
that play a leadership role in the 
advancement of knowledge. The 
most important criterion for 
selection of recipient universities 
is academic quality." 


Control Society 
The 8th annual conference of the 
Michiana Chapter of American 
Production and Inventory Control 
Society (APICSl has been 
scheduled for February 17 in the 
Center for Continuing Education at 
the University of Notre Dame. 
About 50 area manufacturers will 
send delegates to the meetings. 
Speakers at the day-long event include the president and founder of Oliver W. Wright, Inc., a Con­necticut management counseling firm: Walter E. Goddard, executive vice president of the same firm. and L.J. Burlingame dee president of Twin Disc, Inc., Hacine. Wis. Wright and Goddard will dsicuss details of material requirements planning while Burlingame will speak on 
"Systems Discipline." 

Area APICS officers include 
James R. Bramlett of Wheel Horse 
Products. president; Herbert J. 
Werren. Bendix Corp., vice 
president and conference chair­
man: Les Waggoner, Bendix 
Corp., secretary, and Robert K. 
Trueqx, Wheelabrator Corp., 
treasurer. 


SLC meeting 
A Special SLC open hearing session on black students at Notre Dame is scheduled for Monday, 

Before going to Kubiak's this Sunday, why not come and see THE SUMMER OF '42 Performances 7:30 & 10:00 at Olaughlin Auditorium. 
threefold according to the SLC steering com1·1ittee. The hearing seeks to: "familiarize and sen­sitize members of the SLC to the perceptions black students have of Notre Dame; provide a forum for dialogue and thereby begin the process of communicating at­titudes: afford those persons most interested in the total quality of student life at Notre Dame the opportunity to express their ideas and hopes," according to the st­teering committee's printed agenda. 
SPveral black student un­ctergrads will discuss black student social life. Mike Nickerson \\'ill review dating relationships. Kenneth Lee and Julian Easter will examine dorm life. Activities will be discussed by Mike Crit­tindon. Carl Ellison will present academic views as well as an overall summary. Open discussion \\'ill follow the formal presen­
tations.  
Photo  exhibit  
A  display  of  contemporary  
photographs  from  the  In- 

The Observj!r is published daily during the c~llege semester except vacations bY the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester <14 per year) from The Observer, 1:\ox.Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

the University of Notre Dame. 
Featuring textural character and a variety of experimental techniques, the 50 prize-winning photographs were selected by Hichard Stevens, associate professor of art and the General Program at Notre Dame. Students enrolled in photography classes conducted by Stevens will attend lectures in the exhibit area during February. 
Also on display in the Notre Dame gallery are several con­temporary paintings from the New York University collection; prints and drawings of Rev. James Flanigan, C.S.C., of the Notre Dame art staff, and several traditional favorites from the University's permanent collection. 
The Notre Dame gallery is located in O'Shaughnessy Hall and is open 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. weekdays and 1 to 5 p.m. weekends. 


ROGERS Optical 
IIOGU A'I'WflL • OWNH 

(7HE OBSERVER) 
( The Nation Today ) 
restan 



On nursing old grievances 
By James Reston 
(C) 1973 New York Times 

Was~on. Feb. 1---A lot of people around het~ bave been wondering about President Nixo.i''s mood as he goes into his second term. and now we have a few hints from the President himself. The man is fighting mad. He has his second term and his settlement in Vietnam, and he has come out of his struggles with all his grievances intact. lf anything, he is more combative and energetic than ever before, and he seems determined to reform everything and t-verybody but himself. 
. (;t-orge Wallace used to urge the American people to "Send a message to those guys in Washington," but now it is the President. who apparently heard the· Wallace message, who is sending a message hack to the people. THE Congress, and his critics. 
"Shape up," he says, with all the subtlety of a sergeant major. Get to work. Don't ask what the nation can do for you, or even what you can do for the nation. but what you can rlo for yourself. 
!lis 'budget, his remarks about the <'ongress. his defense of the bombing in the last weeks of the war. and his claims for the "Peace" are not appeals for reconciliation hut defiant declarations of war. The secon<;J. t t-rm was going to be "exciting", tie promised, and that may be t~ un­dt-rstatement of the new year. 
The text of his last news c.onference is a revealing document. Th~ ·tone is that of a man who has won a great political victory and settled a wan~obody else could end, and how is is not goil'ig to be crossed by all those \'icious grumblers who ahandoned him in the struggle and didn't even have the grace to admit he was right all along. 
When he was · asked whether he had anything in mind to help heal the wounds in this country," he took a somewhat different line from Mr. Lincoln. and answered with malice toward some and charity only for his supporters. 
"Well," he said, "It takes two to heal wounds. and I must say, when I see that the most vigorous criticism--or shall we say the least pleasure out of the peace agreement comes from those who were the most out­spoken advocates of peace at any price--it makes one realize whether some want the wounds healed. We do." 
Nixon did recognize that maybe the Congress had a problem getting information from the Executive if his officials misused Uie device of executive privilege and ~~ to testify on Capitol Hill. 
Hel~ was cautious and agreed to think about the ~blem and make a considered statement on l'f. later, but he asserted his right to impouna wnds voted by an irresponsible Congress, "'8.Qd his remarks about granting amnesty to tlresP who had refused to serve in the war left no room for compromise now or later on. 

The amnesty question didn't ask him whether he was considering such a policy now but "down the road much farther." 
"Amnesty means forgiveness," he said. "We cannot provide forgiveness for them. Those who served paid their price. Those who deserted must pay their price, and the price is not a junket in the peace corps or something like that, as some have suggested. The price is a criminal penalty for disobeying the laws of the United States. If they want to return to the United States, they must pay the penalty. If they don't want to return, they are certainly welcome to stay in any country that welcomes them ... " 
Many things might be said about this. First. amnesty is a very hard question that dearly divides the Nation, but amnesty does not mean forgiveness. It comes from the same root as amnesia, it is an act of "forgetting" past acts. Second, he left himself no out for the future and evett' rejected the compromise of non~ry service. Third, it dramati~k ~ril{e the savage bombing of 1\lJ,Wtlt-cVietnam, and some of his stiff bUdgets on many social probgrams, an insensitivity to people in trouble. if not an actual strain of cruelty. 
"Certainly," he said, "I have sympathy for any individual who has made a mistake. We have all made mistakes. But also, it is a rule of life, we all have to pay for our mistakes." This is odd coming from a man who has certainly made his share of mistakes. but has somehow managed oveJr a long and remarkable career to be re3arded rather than punished for many of them. 
Maybe all this merely indicates the exuberance of the election and the Vietnam settlement, or one of the dangers of the open news conference---that sometimes it brings delicate questions to the fore at an awkward time---but this sort of thing has happened too often lately to be regarded as an accident. 
Nixon's assumptions seem to be, not only 
that he has been right on these moral 
questions all along, but that there was little 
or nothing to be said on the other side. Also, 
that he has a mandate from the people for 
all his policies---never mind the help he got 
from George McGovern or the fact that the 
Democrats were re-elected as the 
Congressional majority--and that he intends 

to push them through. It is a bold policy, but 
it is certainly not the way to reconciliation. 

.·. 
wicker 

'Publish and be damned' 

By Tom Wicker 
(C) 1973 New York Times 

New York---Self-censorship may well be a graver threat to a free press in America than anything the government is able to do. That is the trouble with the Twentieth Century Fund's well-intentioned plan to establish a press council to monitor the performance of national news organizations. 
The New York Times has announced that it will not cooperate with the council, and there are some other major holdouts; but enough others have agreed to participate­most of them reluctantly--so that the council probably will get off the ground. Probably nothing could please the Administration's press watchdogs more. 
It is true that, with their well-known hostility toward at least the "Eastern Liberal Press," and given a re-elected President's hardnosed new attitudes, the Nixon men pose a substantial threat. But in trying to act through official means to cripple the press, they will encounter constitutional barriers, Congressional resistance and perhaps even some public hostility. 
Congress and the legislatures, for example, have the power to undo much of the damage done to a free press by the Supreme Court's decision restricting a reporter's right to protect the con­fidentiality of his sources. Nor does Congress have to pass the Administration's so-called Whitehead Bill, which would set local stations to do the censor's work on network news broadcasts. And it is by no means clear that the courts ultimately will tolerate the government's novel in­terpretation of the espionage statutes, amounting to establishment of an official secrets act. under which Dan Ellsberg and Anthony Russo are being tried in the Pen­tagon Papers Case. 
But one thing is perfectly clear about 
these developments, as well as the Ad­
ministration's attempted prior restraint on 
publication of the Pentagon Papers, and the 
\'arious strictures on the press periodically 
voiced by Nixon and Vice President Agnew. 
It is that they have planted the fear of 
retribution in any number of publishers, 
editors and broadcasters. 
It is precisely that fear that underlies the 
plan !"or a private press council; the basic 
idea. however sugar-coated, is to clean up 
the press before the government comes in to 
do the job. That, not so incidentally, is what 
such friend:, of the press as Herbert Klein 
and Pat Buchanan are forever urging the 
press to do. 
Thus. much of the press is now moving-­
through the press council idea--toward 
precisely the self-cen::.orship that, in all 
probability. the Administration has been 
hoping for all along. This is not to argue that 
there is anything wrong with self-scrutiny 
and a sensible effort to correct errors and 
maintain a scrupulous fairness. The danger 

1 
Raises $22.8 million 
McGovern. campaign 

sets De1no record 
(C) 1973 New York Times 
Washington. Feb. 1---Sen. George McGovern's campaign against President Nixon raised 
$22.8 million, a record figure for Democratic nominees, and came close to matching his expenses, according to the official year-end report of "McGovern for President, Inc.," made public today. 
ln comparison with anything but the Nixom Campaign Treasury of about $50 million, the McGovern war chest was large. But the South Dakota Senator ran to the worst defeat ever suffered by a Democrat. 
The McGovern funds were slightly more than Nixon had when he first won the Presidency. And they were half again more than Se. Hubert H. Humphrey raised for the losing Democratic campaign in 1968. 
The $22.8 million figure from the principal McGovern Finance Committee covered the nearly four months of campaigning after the Democratic Convention in July of 1972. ln addition, campaign spokesmen said today, McGovern had raised nearly $2 million bet­ween early April, when new Federal campaign disclosure laws took effect, and the convention. 
McGovern for President, Inc. reported a net deficit of about $3~9.000 at the end of last December. But according to Marian Pearlman, the campaign treasurer, many of the debts---both bills for services and campaign loans--had been discounted or forgiven. Through further set­tlements, she said, the deficit "will all be wiped out in another month." 
Meanwhile, Maurice Stans, Chairman of President Nixon's fund raising effort, said that the total surplus in the President's several re-election committees is about $4.8 million. No dectsion has been made, he said, on disposing of the excess. 

is in institutionalizing that self-scrutiny in a press council or any other such instrument. 
For one vital thing, that would concede the point that such a watchdog body is needed--when the fact is that the American Pre~s does n~t really need self-censorship, particularly m reporting on the govern­me~t. u.needs instead, a vigorous new spirit of mqUiry, a bold new determination to make its commitment to truth as it can be perceived, rather than to any Ad­ministration, any ideology or any govern­ment-defined statement of the national 
interest. The Pre~s Council idea presupposes, for another thmg, that the council itself will be altogether objective and unbiased (even as some suppose the press itself should be) when no one can be. As Wes Gallagher of th~ Assoc~ate.d Press has pointed out, the press counctl wlll be as subject to partisanship as any other group . It is well-known, for one example, that numerous responsible, honorable and fair­minded per"flns disagreed with the Time's decisio.n to ;··Jblish the Pentagon Papers. That ~1d not make them right. It is entirely concetvable that a press council numering such men or women among its members could have either condemned that publication, or at least issued a divided re~ort. That would have had great public wetght. Can the American Press, with its constitutional responsibilities, really coo~erate in su~h a potential limitation upon Its nght to pubhsh, and upon its willingness to do so fearlessly and powerfully? Apparently much of it can; and so the likelihood is that once the council is esta?lished and issuing its reports, editors, pubh~hers and broadcasters will begin to seek tts favor--at least to avoid its disfavor w.hich might produce that of the public: Smce no one can say in advance precisely 
what the dominant influences and prevailing attitudes of such a council will be. the process of pleasing it or not 
distressing it could become a dangerous form of self-censorship. 
That the Press Council would aim to keep the press "free" by making it more "responsible" is a contradiction in terms. If the press is truly free, it follows that it will not always be "responsible·'; and anything that tends to enforce its "responsibility" necessarily makes it less than free. 
Aussies to negotiate with North Vietnam 
<c) 1973 New York Times .. Sydney, Australia, Feb. 1 Australia, whose troops fought the communists in South Vietnam for more than 10 years, has taken steps toward diplomatic relations with North Vietnam. 

~ 
, 

later than next fall which would of putting together a list of land­university is going to have to force that most people cut down considerably on food lords. their respective houses and some students off-campus against move off-campus because they feel expenses for the off-campus an evaluation of each house to help their wishes. "From indications I there are less restrictions and it is student. students who are planning to move have received it would appear that cheaper to live this way. He added "There is a shortage of good off-campus next year in their some students will be forced off­Off-Campus Commissioner Bob that most students, however, find housing because of the non­l'hoice of residence. l'amplls. I don't feel this is a goodSauer said yesterday that rising that rising food costs make it more availability of student ap­The problem of security was also thing for the University to do." He rood costs, a lack of quality expensive than they at first an­partments, and the ones on Notre noted by Sauer as being the also feels that as long as Notre housing at reasonable rates and ticipated it would be to live off­Dame A venue are too exorbitant in university's fault for not promp­I>nme sticks with its stay hall inadequate security are the major campus. The Off-Campus Com­their rates." The Off-Campus ting local authorities into system and continues to admit 
drawbacks that students have to missioner felt that food costs are the Commissioner went on to say that providing adequate protection. liuge numbers of freshmen face when moving off campus. inajor problem in the South Bend Notre Dame lagged far behind This deficiency in police protection without constructing new housing
He also commented on what the area that off-campus students other universities in making is especially high where there are on campus the problem of over­university and student and student have to deal with. To remedy this available good low-cost housing to areas that are heavily populated crowding and forcing students off­government are planning to do situation Sauer hopes that the its students. by students. The Off-Campus Com-campus will continue. about alleviating these problems university will open a food co-op no Sauer said his office, in process 
fact that he felt it was Notre I
Senior Fellowship award I>nme's responsibility to ask the local authorities to provide better police protection in the future. 
As for the availability of tran­
*l The Award




Nominations upcoming 
sportation. Sauer felt that this is 
* 
one place where South Bend .does 
by Tim Truesdell few joke or comedy suggestions," terview date at his convenienc~ on 
* * Winning * 
an excellent job. The city transit 
*
Burch commented, "and after we April30, May 1, 2 or 3. At that lime 
Staff Reporter 
system does a fine job of linkingwade through them, we can then it is expected that approximately 
* * Musical * 
off-campus students with theNominations will be accepted begin serious selection." five names will be sele':ted for the 
* 
university and he also believedSaint Mary's students are also final ballot two to three weeksMonday through Friday of next 
* Is On The * 
that any one who does not feel likeweek for the Senior Fellowship eligible to place senior names in later. 
* * 
paying the bus fare can easilynomination. During the balloting Burch has suggested thataward. Approximately 25 
* * Screen! * 
hitchhike to and from campus.
period. special tables will be students file their nominations atnominees are to be chosen from 
* 
what is £>xpected to be a large field placed in all SMC dining halls. any one of four locations: Student The Off-Campus Commissioner 
* COLUMBIA PICTURES,."", * 
believes that Notre Dame's stayAfter the 25 names have been trnion. Student Government, theof applicants. 
* JACK L. WARNER'S "-•• *
hall system has a lot to do withchosen, letters will be sent to the Off-Campus Office in LaFortune or The Senior Fellowship Award 
* * 
was established in 1969 to "honor nominees informing them of their the SMC Dining Hall. Further many students decisions to live off­
* *
campus. He felt that because
an individual who has the in­selection. It is the responsibility of informntion concerning the tegrity, decency and the the designate to accept or reject selection process ':"ill be available students have little chance of * willingness to work for the best the nomination in person after at the Student Umon and Govern­getting into a new hail there only values and the finest traditions of receiving official notice from the ment offices between the hours of alternative is to move off-campus. our society." committee. If the nominee ac-1:00 and 4:30p.m. of next week. Sauer said that he feels the 
Prior to 1969 the accolade was cepts, he will be assigned an in-,-------------------------. 
r 
referred to as the Patriotism
r 
Award and was presented annually Computer talk 
Buses to O'Hare 
to an outstanding American citizen who actively gave zealous
f 
Leave 3/9 3:00 pm from Circle
support to the nation. Among the Dr. Heinz Trauboth, director of 
r recipients were Gen. William the computer system branch of the 
Return 3 I 1 8 8 :0 o p m from *
~ Westmoreland, John F. Kennedy, Computational Laboratory at 
STARTS FRIDAY
0 'Hare
r Hichard Nixon and J. Edgar NASA's Marshall Space Flight 
r Hoover. Center at Huntsville, Alabama, 
Tickets on sale now in Travel Times 
r 
According to David Burch of the will speak on "Real Time Com­
r 
2:00,4:30
, Student Union Office, students are puter Systems" Friday <Feb. 2) in 
Bureau located in Badin Hall 
encouraged ·to file their room 303 of the Cushing Hall of 
7:10 9:45 
! 
nominations with serious intent. Engineering at the University of 
All Sales Final
"Traditionally we receive quite a Notre Dame. 
r 
r r r 
~ 
, 
r 
r 
t 
,t 
r r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 



ATTENTION SOPHOMORES 
Are you aware that the Army ROTC Two-Year Program at the University of Notre Dame prepares you for an officer's commission the the United States Army while paying you$1 00 per month during your Junior and Senior Years? Do you know that you are also eligible to compete for subsidized medical schooling with full pay and allowances, subsidized Graduate study with full pay and allowances for two years flight 
training or Ranger and Airborne Schools? 
Applicants must pass an interview by a board of officers successfully complete written tests be 
medically qualified and have at least two academic years of undergraduate or graduate work remaining commencing in the Fall Semester 1973. Upon being accepted into the program students must attend a six-week summer camp after their sophomore year. They then take Military Science training with those 
Notre Dame cadets already in the ROTC Program. 
Two-Year program participants are also eligible to compete for Two and One-Year scholarships which 
pay full tuition, books and academic fees. 
INTERESTED? For more information visit Captain Weimer at the Military Science Building on the Notre Dame Campus or telephone 283-6264/65. 
THE MORE YOU KNOW ABOUT NOTRE DAME ARMY ROTC, THE BETTER IT LOOKS 
.;·. ·-,.,., ' ·.. --. 


Regents; to meet over weekend 
SMC Board to discuss frosh hours, nursing 
by Mary Janca Committee's report on the recent presented. that the Board will consider a health insurance benefits, as well 
Staff Reporter Alumnae Club Presidents' meeting Whl'n questioned about the "faculty welfare proposal," which as tuition benefits granted for two hl'ld on campus. includes salary increase requests, years to SMC to sons of faculty
Freshman "Self-Responsible proposed "Self-Responsible
According to Mr. John Hof, members and husbands of women
I lours" and a proposed nursing program are major topics on the Assistant to the President, a Hours" for freshmen, Student Students get in the faculty. Along with this 
detailed agenda will not be proposal. Miller said that the same
ll'ntative agenda for Saint Mary's Body President Sue Welte com­
rl'leased to the public, in order to tuition benefits will be sought for
Board of Regents meeting this nwnted. "Personally, I am op-death penalty
allow the Regents to be "open to all the family of a deceased, per­wt•ekend. 
discussions," and that issues will timistic about a permanent policy (Dispatch of The'Times, London) manent faculty member.
l\lembers of the Board will also 
be "presented by individual Ankara, Turkey, Feb. 1---A Faculty representatives, he
discuss the selection of a com­members." Therefore, an agenda change regarding self-responsbile military tribunal in Ankara sen-continued, will not present a tenure
nwncement speaker for spring, of specific tonics cannot be hours for second semester fresh-tenced two university students to proposal to the Regents at this
197:!. and the DeveloQment men. The evaluation compiled death today on charges of at-
meeting. However, "a task force of tempting to overthrow the con­the Planning Committee is 
from last year's experiment gives stitutional regime and abolish currently discussing this issue."

Pears calls for more 
no indication that freshmen are parliament by force. unable to handle self-imposed The judges of the military hours. Clearly this should be a tribunal broke their pens in the personal choice between the traditional Turkish way after
student cooperation •student and her parents. Initial signing death verdicts for Fevzi adjustment to college life occurs Bal and Safa Asim Yildi. TheyCommenting on the recent thefts students in the T.V. room saw the IRIRB• primarily during the first semester belong to the Turkish People's
aud burglaries on campus, theives about 15 minutes before the 
freshman year. By second Liberation Army whose threest•curitv director Arthur Pears break in was made. 
semester. I think most freshmen leaders were hanged last year.
called for "more cooperation from Later. the students heard the are able to adjust their own time A third defendant, Miss Gulaythe students when they see noise of the break in coming from 


TRBIT
according to their needs." Ozde, was also sentenced to deathunauthorized persons in the halls." the basement. "If the students Viewing the proposed nursing but her verdict was changed to life"Call us and let us check on would have called us right away, 
Or medium or well done. 
program. Welte stated, "reaction imprisonment for good behavior in intruders. It may lead to some \H' might have been able to catch 
is favorable to the reinstitution of court. 
Just the way you like it.
!'mharrassing situations, but we them." 
the nursing program, particularly Twenty five other derendants 
Rib-Eye, Chopped Sir­
will handle things with as much Soon after the burglary was since social trends are moving in were sentenced to between nine 
loin, Western or T-Bone.
finl'sse as possible." he said. discovered. security picked up two the direction of healf-oriented months and 15 years in jail. TheIn Pangborn Hall Tuesday ~·ouths on Notre Dame Ave. But 
Easy eating at easy
fields. As an educational in-charges against them were fornight. where $60. was stolen from thl'y proved to have no connection 
prices. Get rarin' to go!
stitution, St. Mary's should be participating in a secondary role infood sales. Pears said that with the Pangborn incident. 
committed to designing programs an armed movement to change the Whl'n asked if there was any to meet social needs." constitution and abolishconnection between the Pangborn Chair.man of th~ Faculty parliament. Most of them wereACC vandalized burglary and the Alumni Hall 
PONDEROSA
Assembly, Dr. Don Miller, added university students.
robbery last Sunday night. Pears 
said. "No. but I think this might UJIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIJIIJIIIIIIIIIDIIIIIIIIUIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIID!
Wednesday night vandals broke 
STEAK HOUSE 
hav£' some connection with an Cl'nter and damaged a few rooms. Parlier larcenv in HQward Hall and I MARDI GRAS SPECIAL Iinto the Athletic and Convication 
52627 U.S. 31 N.
The amount of damage was un­som£' window breaking at the 
dl'term ined. South Dining Hall." 
and

Sl'curity officers noted that the Concerning developments in the IG'v,« KARLOF VODKA ~y?~ I 
break-in was . simply a case of Alumni Hall case. both Pears and = ~ = 
Town & Co~ntry
breaking and entering and van­the St. Joseph County Sheriff's 
I lf2 Gal. $89 9 ~ 
dalism. not a case of armed rob­Office stated that there are some bery even though a theft was ::;uspects at this time. = = 
Shopping Ctr. 
rl'ported. "On£' in particular." Pears said, 
I Coup()n good only at Riverpark Liquor i
The amount of money stolen is "But I can't say anything mo~e yet undetermined. Security will because the suspect is a juvenile. § Town 8. Country Liquor 2411 Mish. twe. E 
Open 11 A.M. to 9 P.M. Daily.
t'l'veal more details on the case However. WI' hope to have some § T & C Shopping Center 5 
Fri. and Sat.·to 10 P.M.
today. progress in the next few days." 
iiillllllllllllllllltllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltiiiiiiiUIIIUIHUIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIITh 
Make $6 an hour or more! ! Sell Mardi Gras tickets 
While you are reading this ad there are students selling 30 or more tickets making 
commission in excess of $6 an hour. The social commission hcts had calls from 
Notre Dame and South Bend people \lvanting to buy raffle tickets. 
PIus • buy one ticket yourself & you get a chans:e for a $7,800 Buick Rivera 
PIus • for every book sold you get 1 cfu~nce for a $900 moh)rcycle 
Plus • by selling 5 books you get free admission into the ki~ckoff party. 
PIus • help out the many charities Mardi Gras sponsors 
Get tickets now by calling Tony Maletlch 1691, 607 Grace 

Delirium Tremens
THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 

Fun with 
John Abowd Dan Thornton Editor-in-Chief Business Manager
NEWS: 283-1715 EDITORIALS: 283-8661 
Numbers
Don Ruane BUSINESS: 283-7471 Joe Butler Executive Editor Advertising Manager 
Friday, February 2, 1973 


A good case 
t 
When Acting Vice President of Student Affairs Philip Faccenda decides to set the 
[ 
record straight there are no words minced. Last night's press conference was an excellent example. 
Faccenda came in with his case meticulously prepared. He had the total enrollment and off-campus housing figures from the last six years on a chart. He had the statistical procedure used to arrive at the prediction down cold. A careful check of both the procedure and the conclusion won't turn up a flaw. In short, he made a good case. 
r 
r The fact that he was concerned enough 
, 
to set up a press conference at the con­venience of both The Observer and WSND and had several other members of his central staff available to answerf 
r questions shows that he believes the 
~ problem of forcing students off campus 
r h'~s ~een overstated anti needs 
r c ,a rifica tion. 
r r What Went Wrong
r 
r 
The Vice President traced most of the current difficulty to an "administrative~ error" last year which resulted in 350 missing beds. The error was essentially~ guaranteeing on-campus housing to every student who wanted it. The error was made by Fr,. Thomas Chambers, who
t is no longer with us in an administrative capacity. 
If Faccenda is right that only 100 students will be forced off campus, and he probably is, then it is possible that the whole process could be pulled off without any bloodshed. There is some real flexibility between guaranteeing students on-campus housing and forcing them to move off. That flexibility is embodied in the market for on-campus beds. 
11111111111111111111II1111111111111IIIIIIIIIIIIII II II 111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111IllII11111111111111111111II II II 111111II111111111111111111IIII· 
daanesbury varry trudeau 
] 

49 
I 

~~ 
n~---= 
'')/ 



Wlfv0 :£'11 ret-U/'16 YOIJ 50HeTHtN0 JIJOY!l I r:n,.,"" AIO,hl /)AI
5/NCE ycv /dON'T r~Vf' f'(l w wv, 1J1K& /IIIRNO IN I :;I: Wfi!IT YOIJ 
GIII/Ni7 11#5!r7P 1'1 !IV BY
ll

5E/Of HORt9L IN-f£/VI
Pe~llT/Ve~ r h/11~/ I ' of&y! 
During the last four years university officials have not encouraged moving off campus, to say the least. This is un­derstandable. They dropped three quarters of a million dollars in 1969 making dormitory renovations and wanted to recoup the investment. In addition, the opening of Flanner and Grace resulted in a net increase of 600 on­campus rooms (500 rooms were con­verted to lounges and suites in 1969). 
How to Fix It 

These developments have unquestionably increased the demand for on-campus housing. Coupled with the nearly complete elimination of dormitory regulations, it's not hard to see how the last few years have greatly enhanced the desireability of dorm life. 
So how do you get 100 extra people to move off campus? Do a similar number on off-campus housing. That doesn't mean dropping $750,000 into an off­campus apartment building---we are working at the margin, not on the average. All it means is to offer sufficient encouragement to move off campus that 100 extra people will be inclined to do so. 
This isn't as hard as it appears. Preparing and distributing a com­prehensive directory of available off­campus housing (including price in­formation), lending university support to the formation of a tenents' union (in­cluding legal aid) and setting up few other amenities of the same type should do the trick. 
After all about 65 students have been enticed to move off campus this year without doing anything but offering to return the $50.00 room deposit. 
John Abowd 

lefty rusc:hmann 
Most Notre Dame students don't need much of a stimulus <or lack of suchl to get a good night's sleep, either in the dorms (ask the maids about thatl or in the classroom (ask the profs about that). But there is usually one guy in every section <two, if he has a roommate) who suffers from insomnia because he worries about the weightier questions of Life. · 
These inquisitive souls come in several varieties. There are the Philosopher Kings who grapple with such questions as: "Is the Cosmic Awl the world's largest ice pick?" or "Does the fact that essence precedes existence in the dictionary necessarily render all of Existentialism false?" Then there are the Empiricists, whowonder about mundane matters such as "What do they call baseball-sized hailstones in countries where they don't play baseball?" 
And then there's a third category of thinkers, guys who worry about the more earthy issues facing the campus. One or two of this group, believe it or not, do· not aspire to high campus office, but politico and non-politico alike, all are needlessly losing shuteye wondering about a question whose answer is painfully obvious. 
The burning question of the hour is: "How many females will the Dome eventually see fit to allow into the ND student body?" The folks on high hint at some four-digit number less than 2,000-depending on how they define their terms and juggle residence halls. 
2,000 women? No way the Dome will admit that many; the eventual number will be roughly half that figure because (a) Notre Dame and an equal male-female ratio are as compatible as Nature and the proverbial vacuum and <bl besides, in the first place, men out­number the women in America by about 3 to 1. 
And, using that Dynamic Duo.of Absolute Truth, namely statistics and logic, I can prove it. Nobody dares call my evidence into queston, since it is provided by the U.S. Census Bureau. <The logic is mine.) 
Below, astute readers <and a few slowpokes who move their lips as they read l will read for each age group the percentage of men not married, the percentage of women not married, and the male-female ratio for that age group. 
Age  per cent Men Unmarried  Women Unmarried  l{atio  
14  !19.9  !19.9  I to I  
17  !18.7  !19.4  1.1  to I  
19  55.0  27.5  2.0 to 1  
21  :!3.2  1-1.2  2.5 to I  

(Note: the above information assumes that equal numbers of each sex are born, that married people are excluded from the figures for fear of encouraging philandering, and that figures, of course, never lie.l 
Extrapolating the given information, one can readily see that by age 50, the ratio increases to about 4 to 1, or close to that at ND-SMC. Moreover, taking it on faith that these are "the best years of our lives," one would logically expect life to get worse after age 21 <i.e., the ratio will deteriorate). Simple enough. 
Life, in its diversity and complexity, abounds with proof of this daring assertion. You can prove it for youself: walk through most any downtown area, count the crowds at ball parks, study the faces in the bars. go wherever large crowds congregate, and the preponderance of nwn is evident. 
What caused this phenomenon? Scientists are divided on this matter. although the majority opinion suggests that the large female mortality rate resulting from the tear-jerking rock lyrics of the 50's, plus the debilitating effects of new "fad" diets, has caused the female X chromosome to have become recessive. 
Bathed in the glowing brilliance of this discovery, old problems are seen in a new light, one which obscures the lousiness of this metaphor. I<'or instance, America's staggering divorce rate is quite in the face of a -t to 1 ratio gnawing at the grand old institution of marriage. And what about the alleged deterioration of the American family unit? 
Small wonder the family hasn't appeared on the endangered-species list. considering the circumstances. And, as a result of the decline of the family. a whole raft of modern-day social ills can be explained away: drugs, alcoholism, crime, insipid sex-oriented commercials, the proliferation of gradeD skin mags, NHL over-expansion, etc. 
Women aren't immune from this phenomenon, even though they enjoy increased selectivity, being in the minority. <Remember "scarce goods" from Econ. 223?) And, since women are a minority, their crusade for political power through the democratic process is doomed. For women to gain political power, they must become economically powerful, and there are only two ways of pulling it off: to expioit others or to be exploited. 
The workings of the Great Ratio also present a number of rn~r.ur hassles. such as the collapse of the economy, the ineviti!!:Jiiity of large­scale war and the end of humanity due to th~ absence of women of 1:hildbearing age, <one-third of the population of this generation, one­ninth of the next generation, and so on). But column space runs short, the hour is late and the night staff wants to put this issue to bed. 
So while the insomniac philosophers suffer through their newest question: "Where are the girls?" I'll be getting a good night's sleep so I ran prove tomorrow (with stats and logic) that the 76ers are better than the Lakers, that Rhode Island is larger than Texas, that three of the four seasons in South Bend are called "summer," and that num­bers always speak the truth. 
the observer 
Managing Editor: Joe A~L Night Editor: Joe Abell News Editor: Anthony Abowd Asst. Night Editor: Maria St. Mary's Editor: Maria Gallagher Gallagher Editorial Editor: Jerry Lutkus Layout: Marlene Zlora, Mike 
Features Ed'1tor: Rod Braye Baum 
Pictures: Jerome Phillips
Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson Day Editor: Bill Sohn Associate Editors: Bob Higgins, Ed Ellis Typists: Dianne Chermside, Barb Special Projects Editor: Dan Barrell Norcross, Dave Rust, Tom 
Modglin, Rich Meloy Night Controller: Harry Chung Omicrom was tasty Happy Chinese New Year! 
r 

Friday, February 2, 1973 
cac preview: a semester of increasing quality 
roche schulfer 
An apper.rance by Marcel Marceau at Citizen Kane is his best known work, many()'Laughlin Auditorium on Feb. 16th · critics have said that A mbersons is a film 
highlights the second semester program of that uses the techniques of Kane with more the Cultural Arts Commission. Mr. Mar­control and greater effectiveness. 
ceau. acknowledged as the master of the art During the week of April 8th through the of mime. will present an evening of style t2th. a week of contemporary French pantomimes and "Bip" pantomimes, the dassics will be screened. The five films and 
character modelled on Chaplin's "Little their directors are: Stolen Kisses <Truf­Tramp." This will be the third event of the fautl, Zazie Dans le Metro (Malle>, La Dance and Drama Series, which during the FemllH' Infidele (ChabrQil, The Umbrellas first semester presented the National of Cherbourg <Demyl, and Breathless Players and the Second City Troupe. 
lGodardl. Olmi's II Posta (Feb. 10-11),Also in February, the Dance and Drama Peckinpah's Ride the High Country (Mar. 3­Series will feature the first American ap­-1), and DeSica's The Bicycle Thief (April28­pearance of Saeko Ichinohe and her ballet 2\ll round out the year for Cinema '73. An company. Miss Ichinohe is a well-known important point for patrons of the series to choreographer who has worked with such note is that the film Singin' in the Rain ·on Mar. 28th and 29th. Director Johngroups as the Harkness Ballet. Rather than lMar. 24-25) has been cancelled. In its Schlesginer delicately and poignantly tellsdassical Japanese dance, the company place. an evening of Buster Keaton classics the story of a modern love triangle between presents modern dance with an oriental will be shown. Jon Finch. Murray Head, and Glendainfluence. She will be at O'Laughlin on Feb. 
Several other feature films will be shown Jackson.
27th. ..
during the semester. Feb. 2nd and 3rd is
The last event in the Series will be an Peckinpah's statement
Straw Dogs. on Two major events will take place during unusual evening of comedy and drama at violence and manhood, starring Dustin the first two weeks of April to culminate the Washington Hall on Mar. 30th. "An Evening Hoffman. On Mar. 2nd, Macunaima year's program of the Cultural Arts Com­of One Act Plays" stars Mel Winkler and \subtitle: 95 minutes of Brazil Nuts) a miss ion. April 1st through the 6th will be the young from
.JoAnne Tedesco, two actors unique Brazilian film will be screened. This Sophomore Literary Festival. a week of
New York. The plays presented will be wild film centers on c>. black Brazilian child readings, lectures, and discussions in­"The Owl and the Pussycat," with the who is transformed into a full grown white Yolving "nntemporary literary figures.
original black-white roles reversed, and adult through a magic spring. Naturally, Poetess t ~ ·vendolyn Brooks and authorT('rence McNally's "Next," about a mix-up hilarious situations follow. The London Stanley Elkin are two writers who will bein records that causes a middle aged man to Observer says, "Wildly funny .... the spirit of
he drafted. here during the week. 
the Marx Bros. lives again." Mike Nichols' April 12th through the 15th will be the 15thOn February 18th · through the 22nd, 
film concerning the breakdown of Anniversary Collegiate Jazz Festival,
Cinema '73 will present an Orson Welles relationships between men and women, presented under the auspices of the Cultural Film Festival. consisting of five films: Carnal Knowledge will be shown on Mar. This year's festival will
Arts Commission.

l'itizen Kane. the Magnificent Ambersons, 22nd and 23rd. The film stars Jack be bigger than ever and will feature moreLady From Shanghai, Macbeth, and A Nil'holson, Ann-Margaret, and Art Gar­college Jazz bands than ever before. ThereTouch of Evil. Welles is regarded as having funkel. It has been widely acclaimed as a will be other new features for jazz devotees. 
had a major influence in the development of masterpiece. An unheralded but important More will be coming on these events in thefilm as an art form in America. While film. Sunday, Bloody Sunday, will be shown weeks to come. 
the fall and rise of jimmy hoffa: a chronicle 
a.h. raskin 
Committee, the shenanigans that killed two The saddest part of the Hoffa saga is how spicuous tokens of Presidential esteem.
tcl New York Times News Service earlier congressional inquiries into I i ttle reform inside the giant truck union has Indeed the only cloud on the Teamster Heamster hanky-panky, the chartering of come out of all the investigations, all the horizons is a growing likelihood that Hoffa
L~verv man and particularly every h 
r. "Paper Locals" and to sell sweet earl court trials. all the jail sentences. Sheridan the man the President let out of jail, and 
politician. can be bought. That creed helped contracts to conscienceless employers and draws up the impressive roll of betrayals Frank E. Fitzsimmons, the erstwhile 
carrv a tough little kid named James the systematic victimization of the rank and gangsters still in positions of influence. caretaker whom the President now calls Hidctle Hoffa from the loading dock of a and file into such a mish-mash of in­
The central states Teamster Pension Fund, "Mv kind of labor leader", may soon be Df'troit grocery warehouse to the terlocking paragraphs that the reader milked by the mob for millions in "Finder's slu1~ging it out for permanent possession... ofpresidency of the country's .bigg~st and wishes he had a score card to keep track of Fees" stfll has a billion dollars in assets. No the driver's wheel. Whichever way tuat~lro~gest union. lt also earned htm t~ a who is doing what to whom. 
union enjoys loftier status in the labor front contest comes out, the crusade Bobbylong term in jail for jury fixing and penston For all that . the Sheridan account affords President Nixon is building as a mainstay of Kennedy and Walter Sheridan started willfraud. a presidential commutation after the a dismaying and in considerable measure, his "New Majority" none gets more con-stay stalled in the truck terminal.
Parole Board had turned him down for the third time and now a prospective battle for convincing insight into the machinations r that transformed this most powerful of
dominance against the caretaker he Je t to unions into a dictatorial instrument of 
warm his white-leather throne in the plunder and intrique, a happy-hunting­

megan mcdonou
palatial headquarters of the Teamsters ground for freebooters and fixers. Sheridan Union at the foot of Capitol Hill. picks up where Bobby Kennedy left off in his 
A depressingiy large measure of support 1\lliO book, "The Enemy Within," in which fer Hoffa's bleak view of conventional the soon-to-be-attorney General warned moralitv is provided in this chilling book by melodramatically that the test for the h('ad of the "Get Hoffa" squal which American was whether Democracy sur­pursued l:lim with obses.sive intensity vived or Hoffa survived, nothing less. through the attorney generaliship of Robert Jt is precisely because Sheridan so ob­
F. KmnPdV. For Walter Sheridan that viouslv shared and still holds -this pursuit turned into an all-consuming life somewhat hysterical view that not only his mission . one in which this ex-special Agent hook but the whole case against Hoffa of the J-o'.B.l. and the National Security ('merges flawed. No one familiar with the Agency has cast himself in the role of 20.432 pages of testimony of union Aveng.ing Angel determined to sta_mp. out racketeering gathered by the McC!e!l3ii the sleazv alliance between big-time Committee when Ker.r:<;uy was its chief
mobsters and the men of power in govern~nlC'nl. from the cop on the beat to th~ rounse1 Is likely to underestimate the villainy of which the Teamsters, Little 
makers-and-shakers in Congress and the Mister Big was capable. And that record is White House. After 15 years of the chase his made more moisome still by the per­own verdict Q!! :;ociety is as dreary as susasive detail Sheridan supplies on the ll()ff;;'s own. "The coffers of the corrupte~s lloffa-initiated intrigue that surrounded his continue to grow and the victims increase 10 court trials and the successful efforts to get numbers and in their feeling of him out of the Lewisburg penitentiary a hopelessness." . . little more than a third of the way through 
By way of evidence Shendan throws mto his 13 vear term. But when true believer his Houge's Gallery the names ~f dozen~ of Sheridan devotes scores of pages to lam­bigwigs, Democrats and Repubhcans ahk~. pooning the notion that he or K~nnedy wer.e to get Hoffa off the hook and to defame his C'ver engaged in a vendetta agamst Hoffa 1t detractors if they could not be flagged _down is a bit hard to unde{stand why he cannot through bribes or strongarm tacltcs · spare a single line to mention the acid l\lusclemen. godfathers and hood~ums .of dissent filed by Chief Justice Earl Warren <'verv description are tucked 10 With when the Supreme Court upheld Hoffa's SPmitors. Governors. Presidential Aides conviction for jury tampering six years ago. ·md multimillionaire industrialists -all lie called the whole case an "affront to the ;1artners in the conspiratori~l web Sheridan quality and fairness of federal law en­spes protecting the hard-fisted Teamster forcement" because the government's boss. the man whose defiant boast always pivotal witness, a minor Teamster official has been. "No _one ab~ses Hoffa. Hoffa can had been plucked out of a Louisiana jail l<t~e c<_tre ~f hn~~elf. . f where he was awaiting trial on charges of 
Shendan s wntmg style IS a comp?und 0 Ikidnapping and embezzling union funds and meat-ax and _vacuum cleaner. He tt_cks off planted inside Hoffa's hotel suite as a kind horr~r stones With such ~achu~eg_un of walkmg "bug" to tell the prosecution rapidtty and httle _attempt at dlff_erenhatwn Pverything he heard. The blackout of the that the whole lund account begms_to have warren rebuke is inexcusable since the dullness of a led_gercatalogum~ h~_g1 Sheridan spends fully half the book extolling carcasses or metal ~astmgs. Worse still ... s the impugned witness 1s one of nature's appears in a free concert at mardi grasaddiction to _the pohce-blotter form of ngld noblemPn gallantly resisting fabulous chronology JUmble.s dozens of court calsles, pavoffs to recant his testimony.
the endless hearmgs of the McCle an · tomorrow night at 8:00 in stepan center. ·~' 


the observer Friday, February 2, 1973 
Letters••• ...on gynecologists, the war, and others 
Gynecologist 
Editor: 
I'd like to say a few words about 
an article in the January 31 issue of 
the Observer concerning the need 
for a gynecologist on campus. J 
am totally in favor of the girls 
(women l on this campus seeking 
the services of such a specialist if 
the need arises. Their enthusiasm 
in appealing to Fr. Shilts reflects 
the enthusiasm shown by the 
typical minority group. 
The old saying, "Give them an 
inch and they'll want seven more", 
most certainly applies here. 
You've come a long way _baby. 
!<'rom not being allowed to set foot 
on this campus years ago, to now 
heing a part of this institution. 
You've even thrown men from 
their homes (Badin and Walsh), 
and will continue to do so. You've 
~ot a lot to thank God for. And now 
~·ou want a gynecologist on campus 
to prevent the possibility of 
quote."... the existence of 
inadequate health care which is 
ereating a legitimately dangerous 
situation." 
What a :ridiculous statement. That's as absurd as needing an orthepedic specialist on campus to prevent a dangerous broken bone situation. Since this proposal was made by Judy Snyder on pehalf of the Women's Rights Association of the Notre Dame Law School and supported by the Women's Caucus, this letter is aimed at all females who support these worthless minority organizations. Wise up girls. Assistant Vice President Shilts has promised the services of a specialist within 48 hours if need he. That should be sufficient. 
Rut Judy, you can always call security and ask for Arthur Pears. lie's the closest thing to a gynecologist we have. I'm sure he will take an active part in helping thP cause of women on campus. By the way, I'm a prejudiced male chauvinist pig. 
Yours in True Faith, Bill Gerallame 
Ruane column 
Editor: He: Don Ruane's column on Notre Dame fans. 
You confuse us. Much of your 
article was contradictory. Ap­
proximately half of your column 
was off the subject of the fans, and 
since you opened the case, we'd 
like to respond to a few of your 
eomments. 
We don· t condone the fans 
throwing things; but you 
l'X aggerated a bit. We take oi­fense to your judgment of the Notre Dame team on seeing them once. You also say, "I'm not that t•xcited about Notre Dame sports anymore." although you like to see t•xceptional performances, etc. Do ~ ou call SR turday's farce an ex­ceptional IJCrformance? The ref's performance was clearly ex­ceptional ... exceptionally bad. And th!' calls were not nearly missed hoth ways. The refs seemed to be ahiP to consistently lose their whistles when UCLA committed 
obvious v1clations. The fouling was tremendous on both sides. The thing that made a difference was the little things, the walk here, som(•thing else there, that the refs always seemed to ignore. 
We seriously wonder whether or not you were watching the game during the Hollyfield incident. Did you see that first elbow? I don't know how he feels, but I hope Pete Crotty didn't read your article. Hollyfield's action was the. "bushest." we have ever seen 
THE WINERY 70Q Different Wines 
2426 L. Way West ' Mishawaka 259-9046 

t•xcepting the stomping of Luke 
Witte in Minnesota last yar. It was 
uncalled for. deliberate, cheap, 
and not the class of play expected 
of a college team. Did you really 
see it'? 

In case you had your eyes open 
for the incident where the ref fell, 
we have it from the most reliable 
source that the ref turned around 
and swore at a student. Did you 
know that Don? 
If UCLA deserved praises, we'd 
give them. They were good, so far 
the best. but often they lowered 
themselves to a poor level; and the 
refs were blind to it all. 
At this point in the column you 
lowered yourself to making 
generalizations and losing your 
point. Your statement on the, 
"erazy drunk and stoned," people 
was low-classed. You also start 
talking about parietals and 
someone who gets busted down­
town. What was the name of your 
article'? Here your piece becomes 
a hopeless jumble and mercifully 
ends. 
Pt•te Kelly 
.Jim Quirk 

P.S. To our knowledge, to this day there have been no reported ankle or knee injuries from flying quarters. 
Uni.on response 
Editor: 

In your Jan. 29 issue you invited 
responses to the question fo a 
faculty union, and I wish to report 
that I "mildly approve" 
unionization of the NO faculty. Most of the arguments I have heard against unions stem from the middle class fear of losing status, of "descen­ding" from the white collar status to the blue collar; Prof. Goerner's article seems to me at base a highly rhetorical version of this, except that he seems to fear Joss of a Homan collar status. Frankly, if I wanted to be some kind of "priest. a mediator between God, under the divine name of truth, and man." I'd get me to a seminary and become ordained; why go second class? I am interested in learning more about my subject and talking to people about it, not in being a priest or saint or martyr or Christian witness; and I am interested in whatever a union might do to create good working conditions for such an enterprise, 
I . like Prof. Goerner, haven't been particularly interested in money --until recently. Now that I find I have to start sending my five children to college, I will have to teach summers (summers when i cc:.:!d ~pend my time reading, learning. and writliig) for a long time to come. Many universities will pay the full tuition for faculty children; Notre Dame pays $1,000 toward it--not bad, but it could be better. Most good universities have regular sabbatical leaves every seven years whereby each teacher gets a year or a semester off at university expense in order to write or learn more; I would like this and. follwing the reasonable assumption that the leisure to think would improve my teaching, I think that my students would benefit from it too. Most good 
universities have standard 
teaching loads of nine or six hours 
(:~ or 2 courses). Last year the 
administration told us we were to 
tt>ach twelve hours (4 courses); 
this year I am teaching one more 
course than I have for the past four 
or five vears. It is obvious to me 
(though I hope not too obvious to 
my students> that the more 
courses I teach the less time I have 
to spend on each course; the 
quality of my teaching 
deteriorates subtly. 

The three matters I have raised 
l'Oncern. not sordid matters of 
money, but working conditionsand 
the resulting quality of my 
teaching; if a union could improve 
things. then I favor it. 
Yours. 
Walter H. Davis 
Professor of English 
The war 

Leanne Jacques' letter of 
Jal)uary 30 was correct in all but 
one aspect. There never was, is 
not. and never will be any reason to 
be thankfuL any any sense of that 
word. for the bombing of Hanoi. 

What was done in our name last 
December will forever be cursed. 
There is no fundamental dif­
ference between the murderers at 
Dachau thirty years ago and the 
murders over Hanoi during 
Christmas. 1972. Does it matter if 
the civilian you kill is a Jew or a 
Vietnamese? If there is a dif­
ference between Dachau, 1942, and 
Hanoi. 1972, it is this: w e knew 
what the Nazis did was evil, that it 
was wrong to kill civilians merely 
because you didn't like them or 
their government. Yet we did 
t>ssentiallv the same thing. 

It is said that those who eriticize 
America are blind to what the Viet Cong have done. The Viet Cong have done a lot of atrocious things . themselves. But does •hat make it right for us to do the same--murder the innocent? It's awful that it's even conceivable to compare our bombing of civilians with the atrocities of the Nazis and ihe Viei 
Cong. That's pretty sick company 
to be among. 

On the same topic James Dickey 
once wrote a poem, "The Fire­
bombing." He prefaceed with the 
lines. "Denke daran, dass nach 
den grossen AZerstoerungen­
.Jederman beweisen wird, dass er 
unschuldig war." (After the great 
destruction all will prove their 
innocence.) How true. 

No. it would be perverse to thank 
those who bombed Hanoi, even for 
a second. If there were truly in­
nocent . people in this war, the 
.:;impie ·wufkt=i;; of Hanoi were 
among them. But they paid iof 
their innocence. And no doubt we will pay, somehow, for their murder. 
Peace. 
Bruce Bower 
517 Leland Ave. 
Sojth Bend. 

Let's Get Acquainted Special 
::E SOUTH 272-5540 
Open 'till Midnight 
Complete Beer -Wine-Champaign. Food Carry-out Service We also feature Daily Special 

Visit our Dining Room -Children are welcome Jumbo Burger and Schooner of Old Milwaukee 

with this coupon
$1.00 
i.imit: 1 per person Expires 3-1-73 

abortion 
Editor: 
In Thursday's (January 25) 
Observer I read with some dismay 
Carole Moore's comment on the 
Supreme Court's abortion ruling. 
Said Miss Moore: "It's about 
time ... The emphasis should be 
shifted from whether or not 
abortion constitutes murder to 
consider what the quality of life 
will be for that fetus." 
By itself. such a statement is 
nothing more than a reflection of 
unthinking humanitarianism: 
unwanted children born into 
broken homes and abject poverty 
face a life devoid of all joy and 
hope. Perhaps so. But is not the 
cure worse than the illness? When 
killing l'or convenience is thus 
legitimized where will it stop? 
After the nameless fetus, perhaps 
\H' can get rid of Grandpa (he's 
getting senile and can't work in the 
garden anymore>; or that little 
retarded boy on the corner (he.ll 
never be a lawyer, you know>; or 
how about that poor brunette 
(after all. blondes do have more 
fun l; and maybe even a Jew or two 
(they don't bleed or have feelings so I'm told l. 
Miss Moore's statement would not merit a serious second thought \\'ere it not for the fact tht she is a faculty members. While it may be an exaggeration to call Notre Dame "Catholic," the University can still lay claim to being "Christian" in a broad sense, which. of course. includes a respect for the sanctity of human life and at least a tacit recognition of the Commandments of God. Facultv members who cannot accept even so minimal a Christianity make a mockery of Notre Dame. 
To compund matters, I am told that Miss Moor specializes in medieval history. Accordingly she 

of all people should realize the. vital role that morality and religion play in the social order. Medieval man recongnized a hierarchy of being that transcended mere human convenience or "quality of life" (Whatever that meansl. It would seem that the Middle Ages, for all their so-called darkness. were not nearly so barbarian as our own t>nlightened. liberated time, freed as it is from the rigors of serious thinking. 
Robert Francis Smith 

DUSTIN 
HOFFMAN 
111SAMPf.Clllo'fiAHS 

"STRAIN DCDS" 
AOANtf.lME!NCKJJn:dvc\.1011 
,.....,ISUSAN GEDRGEasAmvl 

~b'IJfAA~HlLOIN!iSawrolrlb'I()A((IlELAGro:x»AAN ._,SAAAiltCkiRH ~by0No«lMHP¥(Jc: Oore:~b'ISN.IPE(l(IA.H 
Friddy & Saturday Feb. 2 & 3 8 & 10 pm Eng. Aud $1 
NASSAU TICKET OFFICE HOURS 
11:30 -12:30 Every Morning 3:00-4:45 Mon., Tues, Wed. 
1:00-3:00 Thurs. Afternoon Located in La Fortune -3rd Floor 
Sign up at these times for Nassau 
REGAL NOTES 
UNDERSTAND PLAYS, NOVELS AND POEMS FASTER WITH OUR NOTES We're new and we're the bigestf Thousands of topics reviewed far quicker understanding. Our subjects include nat only English, but Anthro­pology, Art, Black Studies, Ecology, Eca· nomics, Education, History, Low, Music, Philosophy, Political Science, Psychology, Rei igion, Science, Sociology ond Urban Prob­
lems.  Send $2 for your catalog of topics avail­ 
able.  
REGAL  NOTES  
~160  "0" Street,  H. W.  
Washington, D, C.  20007  
Telephone:  202-333-020 i  

RANDALL'S INN BUFFET DINNER 
Served every Sunday 12 to 8 o'clock
FEATURING: Roast Round of beef sliced to ...your liking Two additional hot entrees Potato and vegetable 
PLUS: OUR OWN OVEN HOT POTATO BREAD 
assorted salads assorfed desserts 
Only $3.90. All you can eat. 
THE PEACH TREE RESTAURANT AT RANDALL'S INN:TRAVELODGE 130 Dixieway North South Bend, In. Phone 272-7373 
Replaces SBP & SBVP with three commissioners 
Student govt revision proposed for SMC 
by Mary Egan Staff Reporter 
Saint Mary's Student Assembly representatives Barb McKiernan and Debbie Carvatti proposed a one-year experimental revision of SMC's student government at the assembly meeting last night, which would replace the positions of Student Body President and Vice-President. 
Instead, three executive com­missioners, the Chairman, Hall composed of the aforementioned Life Commissioner, and Student chairman. two freshmen reps, Affairs Commissioner, would fourteen hall reps, an Off-Campus share the responsibilities of the top representative, a Day Student student government office. A representative and the Student chairman of the Judicial Board Affairs Commissioner. · and an Academic Affairs Com­The main reason for this missioner will assit them. revision. they explained, is to 
The Community Government relieve one person, such as the would consist of a Student SBP. of complete responsibility of Assembly, Student Affairs Com­all action taken by student mittee, Student Affairs Council, government. 
"Everything would run more <'fficiently," than under the current system," stated McKiernan. This type of govern­ment would get more people in­volved, she added. 
This proposal for the restruc­turing of the SG, if passed next week by the Student Assembly, would then be considered by the 
and the Board of Regents. The Student Assembly would be 
Niemeyer to discuss 
soci~ety, myth, orde~r 

Dr. Gerhart Niemeyer, Professor of Government at Notre Dame, presents a lecture titled "Society, Myth and Order" at 8:00 
P.M. Sunday, February 4 in the Library Auditorium. The talk is sponsored by the Notre Dame Academic Commission and is free. 
Dr. Niemeyer was born in Germany and emigrated to the 
U.S. in 1933. He received his higher education at Cambridge University . Munich University and Kiel University. He received a 
J.U.D. degree from Kiel with a dissertation in international law. Before coming to Notre Dame, Professor Niemeyer taught at 
Sue Welte (third from right) leads discussion in the St. Mary's Student 
PrincetQn University, Oglethorpe,
Assembly meeting last night. (Staff photo by Jim Hunt). 
Yale. Columbia and Vanderbilt. He was also a Fulbright Professor at Munic}J University in 1962. 
Dr. Niemeyer has been a foreign service officier for the U.S.
$50 million backs Department of State and is a past member of the Task Force on Foreign Policy of the Republican National Coordinating Committee. His books include Law Without
Nixon campaign 

Mardi Gras STEPAN CENTER 
Tonight 6 :30· 1 0:00 (stop here on your way to the kickoff party) Saturday 7:00pm·1 :00 Sunday 1 :OOpm-5:00 

by James R. Polk 
(C) 1973 Washington Star-News 
Washington, Feb. !-President Nixon raised and spent more money in his re-election race than any other candidate in history, official rilings show. 
At least $35.2 million passed through the Finance Committee to He-elect the President, according to its summary report, and reports of other fund-raising arms are expected to push the final Nixon total past $50 million. . 
Nixon himself set the previous spending record at $35 million in 1968. 
Democratic candidate George S. 
McGovern's campaign reports 
failed to show up at the general 
accounting office by yesterday's 
deadline. midnight. 
The Nixon reports show a sur­
plus of $4.8 million--also far more 
than ever before--still left in the 
coffers of its five major fund­
raismg groups. 
With about two-thirds of the 
Nixon state reports yet to arrive, 
both the surplus and the spending 
totals should swell slightly in the 
next few days. 
A Mississippi land owner and an 
Iowa industrialist--both relatively 
unknown rich men--gave the 
Nixon forces the biggest boost in 
the closing days of the race. 
I<'.L. Cappeart of Vicsburg, 
Miss .. a millionaire farmer with 
l'Xlt•nsive cattle and land holdings, 
and Hoy J. Carver, Chairman of 
Force: An Inquiry into Soviet 
Mentality: The Communist Bandag Inc., a tread rubber Ideology (Vol. l of Facts on manufacturing firm in Muscatine, Communism), Communists in Iowa, each gave multiple checks Coalition Goven1ments; Outline of that appear certain to top $200,000. Communism, Deceitful Peace; 
ld e a feasible: Marget 
Shelter proposal set 
by William Murphy Staff Reporter 
Student Government Treasurer Mike Marget last night announced a student government proposal for a bus shelter somewhere near the existing bus stop at the gr.ot_w. · 
The idea was brought fJl. Minister of Propaganda Jim.,.Ree oy Paul Dechant. P.. -s6{lhomore from Morrissey Hall. Roe thought that it was a good idea pointing out that when the weather is inclement people are forced to wait in the open for the shuttle to St. Mary's. 
According to Marget, the idea is financially feasible. Marget has predicted a surplus of almost 15 hundred dollars in this year's student government budget. The idea must be approved, however, by both Fr. Wilson, VicePresident for Business Affairs, and Brother Kieran Ryan, Asst. Vice-President of the Business Office. Roe stated that approval must also be sought from the campus Environment Committee headed by Prof. Frederick Beckman. 

1723 So. lend Ave.  Jim  -class of '63  
Chuck  -class of '65  
*Tappers  in  stock for  kegs  

Call ahead 272-9800 
ALWAYS A BEER SPECIAL 

We will meet any locally advertised price discount LIQ U 0 R & WINE BY THE CASE 
Help with the design of the structure has been offered by the Chairman of the Architecture Dept., Prof. Ambrose Richardson. Student body Provost Dennis <H­Manl Etienne suggested a log cabin structure to match the design of the log chapel and Old College. 
The Minister of Propaganda also announced a time capsule contest open to the student body. The (•xact rules of the contest haven't been decided as yet but it will generally be an attempt to decide what to put in a corner stone for the bus shelter. 
If anyone is interested in helping on the bus shelter committee ar has some ideas concerning the time capsule contest, please contact Jim Roe at student government offices. 
Niemeyer 

and Between Nothingness and Paradise. 
He has contributed to such publications as Modern Age, Review of Politics, Journczl of Politics. and National Review. 
Student Affairs Commission, where it will be taken back to the Assembly for further ratification. 
Student Body President Sue Welte suggested to the Assembly members an extension of "grace hours," giving each freshman up to 3 ours of Late Minutes per semester, and upperclassmen with curfew, 5 hours. 
In substitution for the usual Student Assembly meeting on February 22, Welte added, Dr. Henry will meet with the student government members on that date. 
THE ROMA welcomes 
ND·SMC students 
Your host Frank Anastasio 
"We'll make you a pizza youcan't refuse" 
*DELICIOUS 
ITALIAN FOOD *PIZZA *LIQUOR 
Dancing to the sophisticated jazz-rock sounds of Bill Nicks Trio Open until 4:00 a.m. on weekends For DELIVERIES CALL 234-3258 211 N. Michigan Ave. 
Downtown South Bend <Next to Morris Civicl 
Pitt Club presents O'Laughlin Auditorium
Jennifer O'NE~i/1  
"Oscy'' "Her~nie"  .. . ,8en1y  SMC  
in  

The Summer of '42 
Admission $1.00 Sunday Members 
February 4 50 cents 7:30 & 10:00 
MAIN CHUR.CH 
SUNDAY MASSES 
5:15 pm Sat. 
Fr. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 9:30am Sun. 
Fr. David Schlaver, C.S.C. 
10:45 am Sun. 
Fr. Giles Pater 
12:15 pm Sun. 
Fr. William Toohey, C.S.C. 
"Evening Song" vespers Sunday at 4:00 pm. Confessions are heard before each weekday mass and from 7:00 to 7:30pm Monday through 
Saturday. 
the observer Friday, February 2, 1973 
YAF forms new ND-SMC chapter 
by Jim Lindsay 
Staff Reporter 
A new chapter of Young Americans for Freedom, the nation's largest conservative ~·outh organization, is being for­nwd at Notre Dame to make ND­SMC students more aware of the "l'onservative alternative," said l'hapter chairman Edward N:tvarro yesterday. 
According to Navarro, "YAF is not a political party in itself, nor is it an appendage of the Republican party. Ha ther. Y AF is trying to hridge the present gap between parties by awakening the American public to the merits of conservatism.'' 
Navarro. a junior government major, pointed out that YAF dt•nounces fascism, racism, ~ocialism. and communism. The organization's "credo", the Sharon statement. declares that the forces of international communism are the greatest single threat to American liberties. and the "the United States should stress victory over, rather than coexistence with, this menance." 

A native or Cuba, chapter head Navarro brings a special personal interest to his post. Having spent the rirst ten years of his life in Cuba, four of which were under the Castro regime. he sees Americans as being "terribly unaware of the effects of a communist or any other form of totalitarian state." 
Y AF particularly lists as one of its goals the improvement of life on the American college campus. A Y AF promotional brochure speaks or the organization's desire for "presenting a responsible campus approach to resolving the teal problems of our universities and to restoring sanity through curriculum reform, legal action programs. majority coalitions, student government participation, independent newspapers, responsible academic freedom, and voluntary student activity fees." 
Amtrak releases 
first public report 
by Stephen M. Aug 
(C) 1973 Washington Star-News 
Washington. Feb. /--Amtrak today outlined publicly for the first time the extent of some of its problems trying to operate a nationwide rail passenger service hy contract with a dozen rail systems. 
In its annual report to the President and Congress, Amtrak-­officially the National Railroad Passenger Corp.-cited difficulties forcing railroads to operate trains on time. preventing overcharges hy the railroads and collecting damages for railroad-caused accidents. 
The difficulties--which probably represent only a small percentage of actual incidents in which Am­trak and the railroads find themselves at odds--are outlined in a section of the annual report dealing with arbitrations. 
Amtrak also reported that during its first year and a half of operations it had accumulated a ddicit of $239 million. It noted that revenues for the last six months of 1972 were up 12.6 per cent from the samP period of 1971 "indicating that the historical decline in railroad passenger ridership has lwen reversed." 
Among its accomplishments, Amtrak listed the fact that by ~·ear's end 603 passenger cars had lwen refurbished: now advanced passenger-train cars and engines have been ordered for service next summer: ridership was up 10.4 per cent and it is now possible to buy tickets using any of six national lTedit cards. 

At the same time the company said it had received 8,506 letters from customers, more than 3,000 of which were requests for in­
formation.  but  more  than  1,400  
critical of Amtrak service.  The  
most  frequent  complaints  were  

with reservations (11.9 per cent) 
and rude personnel 01.1 per cent). 
Under the federal law that created Amtrak, the corporation and the railroads which operate its trains under contract submit disputes to binding arbitration. 
The reports on arbitrations disclose that Amtrak -has been having difficulty forcing some railroads to maintain the operating speeds to which they agreed. 
In one case. Amtrak accused the bankrupt Penn Central Tran­sportation Co. of reducing the average speed on its line between Indianapolis. Ind., and Kankakee, Ill .. to 33 miles an hour from the previous 52 miles an hour. As a result. the 139-mile trip now takes three hours and 50 minutes instead of the previous two hours and 41 minutes. 
The railroad. Amtrak says, had violated its contract "by failing to maintain its rail lines" between Indianapolis and Kankakee. 
In autumn 1971, Amtrak says, its Chicago-Florida train began to experience such delays on the same Penn Central line between Chicago and Louisville that it rarely made its connection in Jacksonville, Fla. 
When Amtrak asked Penn I Central to restore the level of track to what had existed prior to May 1, 1971, the railroad replied that Amtrak must pay $2.7 million to improve the line. 
Friday, February 9 at 8:00 Some good bleachers remaining at $3.00 in Student Union and ACC Ticket Offices 
...presented by Student Union... 
The brochure states· YAF's Since its founding in 1960 at the desire to bring about a greater homl' of William F. Buckley, Jr., appreciation of conservative in­YAF has grown from a small tellectual thought and correct a group of students to an "political and philosophical im­organization of over 65,000 balance caused by the dominance nwmbers in 800 high schools, of liberal teachers and texts." college. and community chapters. 
Prof Bishop discusses Indian caste systeiD 
Professor James Bishop, Associate Professor of History at Manchester University, spoke on the "Political and Changing Aspects of the Indian Caste S~·stem." last night in Carrol Auditorium at St. Mary's College. 
Bishop pointed out that since democracy has come to India the caste system has become a part of the political system. This is a result of the necessity for politicians to appease the larger lower castes in order to stay in office. 
Bishop also attacked the American belief that the caste system is unflexible. He explained thet ranking is dependent on what people think of you. There is no personal movement up or down hut. a whole group or Jati may move up or down in the system. This is happening often today because many pP.ople are becoming educated and want a social position suitable to their intelligence. 

Bishop said that the view that most Americans hold of India are at least 50 years behind the times. He blames this on the news media and authors who have covered events in India. 
Professor Bishop was a Fulbright Scholar in India from 
1966 to 1967. 



Add the comforts 
of home to your 
... AT A BARGAIN RATE OF ONLY $ _ PER MONTH
26 50 FOR BOTH 
Typewriters and adding machines at surprisingly low rates, too. 
.. 
2022 South Bend Ave. South Bend, Indiana 272-5482 One block west of I ron wood Dr. 

Mardi Gras Kickoff Party 
Friday, 8:30 • 12:30 South Bend Armory 
Tickets ($5/cpl.) Available at Ticket Office and at the door 
Bus Service to the Armory 
Leaving ND Circle via SMC parkinglot 
To the Armory: 8:00pm 8:30 8:45 
9:15 9:30 10:00 10: 15 

Not totally new to Notre Dame, YAF l"slablished an ND chapter several years ago, but its popularity disappeared with the graduation of its originators. Upon transferring to Notre Dame this year from Los Angeles Valley College, Navarro decided to revitalize the chapter with the help of Mark Souder. a business graduate student and Y AF nwmber for 6 years. 
An organizational meeting for YAF will be held this afternoon at -1:00 in Hoom 2-D of the Lafortune Student Center. All interested students are invited. One of the rna in topics to be discussed will be Y AF's stand on abortion. 
FREE DOPE 
is unheard of but Nassau isn't. Denny says he wouldn't miss it --and he's been there and back. $189-complete. Sign up at LaFortune Ticket Office, :lrd rtoor. Some seats left. 

Student Union 
Leave Armory: 
11:00 pm 11: 30 11:45 12: 15 am 12:3C1 
1:00 



Crotty 
by Lefty Ruschmann 
Strong rebounding and tough defensive play by Notre Dame's basketball team overcame a 30­point performance by All-America candidate Tom Inglesby as the Irish staged a second-half rally to upend Villanova University, 82-66, last night at the Palestra in Philadelphia. The win snapped a three-game Irish losing streak. 
John Shumate led the way for the Notre Dame with 23 points, 15 of them in the second half, and also controlled the boards at both ends of the court. "Big Shue" received ample help up front from Pete Crotty. who amassed a season high of 18 points. and by Gary Novak, whose rebounding and outlet passes set up several second-half breakaway goals. 
The fine outside shooting of Inglesby and Ed Hastings kept the 'Cats even with the Irish for most of the game but the Villanova forecourt could not cope with a taller and stronger Notre Dame !'ront line. as three 'Cat players fouled out of the physical. foul­filled contest. 
After Novak's jump shot put Notre Dame ahead, 2-0, both clubs settled down to a seesaw battle marked by numerous ties and lead changes in the early ping. Villanova. paced by the perimeter shooting of Hastings and Inglesby, hit on its first four shots while Crotty scored six of his squad's first ten points. 
Neither team led by more than three until halfway into the opening period. After Crotty's goal put the Irish in front, 17-16, the Wildcats rolled off eight con­secutive points on buckets by Jim Rurang and Inglesby, Bob Sebastian's layup and Mike Stack's fast-break basket to pull ahead. 24-17. 
The Irish. bothered by the Villanova zone. went scoreless for nearly five minutes until Shumate 
Cagers face Xavier Saturday in ACC 
by Vic Dorr If comparative scores meant anything, the Fighting Irish basketball team would be in a very 
secure  position  on  Saturday  af­ 
ternoon.  
The  Irish  entertain  the  

1\Iusketeers of Xavier University in a 2 pm home game on Saturday, and a comparison of the 2 teams' performances against a mutual opponent -the Dayton Flyers ­clearly favors coach Digger Phelps squad. 
Xavier played Dayton nearly a month ago, and despite a home­t•ourt advantage the Musketeers suffered a 98-82 drubbing at the hands of their cross-state rivals. Notre Dame met Dayton 2 weeks ago in the ACC. and this time the Irish won by a big score -they pounded the Flyers, 94-58. 
But comparative scores have never been reliable. and the ND cagers won't be favored by 52 points when the two teams meet tomorrow in the ACC. The Irish will simply be hoping for a win, and they will be hoping againstll a 
Xavier club that is returning some high-class talent from last year's 12-14 campaign. The 1971-72 season was Xavier's etghth non­winning year in a row, but the Musketeers came within points of several big upsets. 
They lost to Dayton by 3, 69-66, before bouncing back to dump the flyers later in the year. They lost to Villanova and Duquesne by t-ight. to Detroit by four, and to Marquette-in the second meeting of the season -by eight. The Musketeers closed their 71-72 campaign by winning 3 of their last four_ outings. 
-

D . Shue do it to Villanova 
I broke the ice with two free throws and Brokaw sank a jumper, making the score 24-21. 
Tom Inglesby stretched the home club's lead to 30-21, its largest of the night, tossing in two goals after taking advantage of Irish defensive lapses. But Notre Dame. shuffling front-line per­sonnel and switching to a full-court press. closed to 32-29 at the half on lay-ups by Shumate and Brokaw. 
Opening second-half action, Crotty and Shumate tallied to give the Irish the lead at 33-32. Thereupon both teams again began to exchange baskets, improving upon their first-half shooting <ND :l3 percent, Villanova 32), with Shumate hitting repeatedly from the baseline. Don Silinski chipped in all of his five points within the span of two minutes. his short jump shot and foul shot giving the Irish a 46-44 lead which they never relinquished. 
Following a Sebastian free throw, the Irish front line triggered a run of seven points with two Shumate baskets. Dwight Clay's baseline shot and a Crotty free shot to make it 53-44. Meanwhile, Villanova encountered difficulty with the Irish defense and was unable to muster .a comeback. 
With five minutes remaining, layups by Clay and Shumate hiked the Irish advantage to 63-53, for­l'ing the 'Cats into a press in hopes or rattling the visitors. But Novak's score-producing outlet passes thwarted the Wildcats, who resorted to fouling for possession. The strategy failed as the Irish eooly converted virtually all their charity tosses to build up their t-ventual victory margin. 
The Irish face four home games in the next eight days, hosting Xavier <0. l Saturday afternoon, Butler on Monday night, Michigan State on Wednesday night. and La Salle next Saturday afternoon. l\:otre Dame has posted a 4-3 record this year in the ACC. 

Xavier's hopes in their clash \\'ith the Irish lie largely with a pair of experienced seniors. Center Bob Fullarton, a li-10, 225­pounder. led the Musketeers in scoring last year with a 14.8 average, and finished the season as the nation's second-leading percentage shooter. Com­plementing Fullarton is 6-6 for­\\'ard Conny Waren, also back for his final year. Warren was the team's leading rebounder in 'i1 -­pulling down nearly 11 'bounds per 
game  - and  also  posted  a  9.6  
scoring averag e.  
Coach  Dick  Campbell's  other  

three starters graduated last spring. hut a rising sophomore and a pair of transfer-students should more than make up for their departure. The sophomore is Pete Accetta. a 6-6 forward, who led the \\I usketeer freshmen in both scoring (J8.5ppgl and rebounding last year. 
The transfers are center Jerry Foley. a 6-9. 230 pound sophomore and Steve Penhorwood, a 6-3, 188 pound junior guard. 
Coach Digger Phelps' Irish, who \\'ill return to South Bend today after last night's game against Villanova , will employ their usual starting lineup of guards Dwight Clay and Cary Brokaw, forwards Pete Crotty a~~d Gary Novak, and center John Shumate. 
Notre Dame leads the series with Xavier, three games to two. The Irish won the first three games of the set -all of them in the11930's · but the Musketeers have taken the last two. Xavier dumped the Irish li0-52 in 1950; and then edged ND in 195& i3-71. 

.. 

A 
.. 
.. 
---~------------:______________________________ 

Friday, February 2, 1973
12 
the observer 

Irish, Sioux clash in key series 
by Jim Donaldson formances against Michigan State, Sports Editor taking a pair from the Sioux will be far from easy. 
Some WCHA games are worth "They've been a little spotty at more than others. This weekend times," Smith said. "Yet, North Dakota visits Notre Dame sometimes, like the night coach for two games that are worth more <Tim l McNeil and I scouted them to the Irish than any they've at Michigan, they look like the played all year. finest team I've seen in a long 
The importance of this time." wl•ekend's series stems not merely "They were picked as one of the from the fact that eight title points top four clubs before the season," are at stake, but also because a Smith continued. "They have swl'ep would almost assure coach outstanding personnel, great speed "Ldty" Smith's streaking icers of and good size." a spot among the top four clubs in Hegardless of their in-the final standings and at least one consistencies, the Sioux have home-ice play-off series. several of the league's best hockey 
players in high scoring seniorThe series is also critical from center Jim Cahoon, his talentedNorth Dakota's viewpoint. The class and Iinemate, Earl An­Sioux have dropped four con­
cterson, and defenseman Alan
secutive four-point games, losing a llangslaben, voted top freshman inpair at home against Denver two the WCHA a year ago.
weeks ago and dropping two last \\'l'<•kend at Wisconsin, and the loss Cahoon is third in the WCHA of l'ight more points would put an scoring race this year with 12 goals
• 
Pnd to Sioux hopes of finishing near and 22 assists for 34 points. An­the top of the league. derson. one of the league's top 
Notre Dame moved past North right wings, isn't far behind with Dakota into fourth place in the statistics of 14-15-29, and WCIIA last weekend by virtue of its llangleben has 19 points on eight convincing wins over the then­goals and 11 assists. That trio ran IPague-Ieading Michigan State t-2-3 in scoring for the Sioux last Spartans at the ACC. Irish have vear. ,,·on eight of their last nine league · Other North Dakota standouts gaml's and have an 11-7 WCHA include Larry Drader (10-9-19), the 
The WCHA 's top two scorers, Ian Williams, left, and ·· '• '• ·· rpcord, good for 26 title points. left wing on Cahoon's line, right Dakota in an important eight-point series this weekend at the ACC. Tlwy are t:HIQverall. wing Jerry Miller 09-12-21), and With left wing Eddie Bumbacco, nights for the Irish and will look to poll'nt Sioux. forwards. 
Despite their recent problems, defenseman AI Henry (3-10-13). the WCHA's leading goal scorer tlw defensive pairs of Bill Green-Faceoff I<'riday night is at 7:45. North Dakota brings a 10-9-1 Senior Dave Murphy (4.27 GA and point getter, pacing the attack, !\lark Stl'inborn and Steve Curry-Saturday's game will start at the h.•ague mark and 23 title points into avg. l and sophomore Tim :'-Jotre Dame has averaged eight Bill N.vrop for help in stopping the usual timP of 7::!0. tfie ACC. Delmore (4.47 GA avg.l have goals during its last six games and ,--------------------------. 
"If we can win this series," shared the goal tending chores for last weekend bombed Michigan Smith mused. "we can come the Sioux and both may see action Stall', which had previously awfully close to clinching one of this wl'ekend. a llowl'd fewer goals than any club thl' top four spots in the standings. Whoever is in the North Dakota in lhl' league. for 21 markers, A swl•ep would give us eight points net figures to be in for a busy winning R-5 and 13-5. and momentum going into road WPl'kl'nd. Tt1e Irish are at the peak Irish winger Ian Williams stands 
games at Colorado College and of their game right now, checking sr -~ond in the WCHA point race and 
OBSERVER
l\1ichigar State." wPII all over the ice, passing with lw and Bumbacco provide Notre Smith is well aware that, despite rPmarkable accuracy and scoring Damp with the best 1-2 scoring his dub's impressive per-at an almost unbelievable rate. punch in collegiate hockey. Bumbacco has gunned in 24 goals, 
SPORTS
Pight more than anyone else in the ll•agul'. and has 19 assists for 43 points. Williams has collected 15 goals and 20 assists for 35 points. 0\'erall. Bumbacco has tallied 62

Captain's Corner points <:l4-28l and Williams, 42 (20-Tankmen list two meets 
~21. 

Northl'rn Illinois, a 64-49 winner ranks among the league's top from two home victories, take a 4-2 

SPnior center John Noble also Notre Dame's swimmers, fresh 
last ~·par over the Irish, enters the scorers. Noble is currently rl'cord to DeKalb, Ill. this Friday 
nwl'l with a 4-:3 record, losing to I've Iward it said that "Happiness is seeing the Golden Dome in your Big TPn powers Wisconsin, Iowa
sPvl'nth in the loop with 31 points to nwet a talented Northern Illinois 
rear view mirror as you drive away." l!l-22l and. on the year, has gar­University squad. and Purdue. Brian Voisard of the nPred 40 points (12-28). Noble lluskies poses the greatest in­
Whl'ther it be for a short weekend or a longer vacation, the student In assessing the recent success, dil'idual threat, in the 200 and 500
joirwd an Plite group of collegiate

spl'cies native to Notre Dame responds to departure with an "I can't wait coach Dl'nnis Stark commented,
skatPrs last weekend when he )'ard freestyle and the 200 yard
to leave" attitude. However. the Notre Dame hockey player, a variety of "Thl' team is starting to pull backstroke.
scored his 200th career point and

the species. has been reacting quite differently all season. For this togl'ther now, with progress
he finished the M.S.U. series with

Pstranged specimen, vacations are dreadful and long weekends are coming in the diving and I<'ollowing Northern Illinois, the
~0:3.

worse. Happiness for the hockey player is student support at a home backstroke and the improved lnsh tankers will face Bradleygam<' and is only found under the white dome of the ACC. Thl' Irish will be without Noble's times of John Sherk. Against University and St. Bonaventure sl'rvices in Friday night's game. 
Oakland and Marshall, Jim Kane before returning home of FebruaryOur home record is 9-2 at this time. About the two: one came on Jan. 3 
Ill' rl'ceived a game 

provl'd himl'self, once again, as 17th ~o take on the Boilermakers of and was the doing of an excellent Czechoslovakian National team. They 
disqualification penalty last 

always dependable." Purdue.
1n•re precision passers and expert playmakers. Some of their talent must 
Saturday against the Spartans for 

have rubbed off because, since that game, our passing and play-making 
spl'aring and the violation carries 

has improved greatly. The other home loss came on Nov. 25 against a an automatic suspension from the hustling Minnesota team which we had beaten the night before. There is Two ND teams on road
tl'am's next game. according to no nPed to check your old Playmate calendars, Nov. 25 and Jan. 3 were Jpague rules. during official vacations. The student following was absent and so was Notre Dame's wrestling and sPeutivl' vietory in Wednesday's
As a result, Ric Schafer, who track tl'ams will be on the road this :l0-15 win ovl'r Wheaton and will be
our happiness. 
scored two goals against State, will 

\l'l'l'kl'nd against tough com­a prominent contender for SPveral years ago. "real" hockey atmosphere was enjoyed only on ·our petition. hPavywl'ight honors in the Catholic 
mo\'e into Noble's centering spot hl'lwpen Bumbacco and freshman

opponent's rinks. However, the ACC has since gained the most pleasant Coach Terry Mather's grap­toruney. NCAA champion Tom 
David Howl' for the first game of

hockey atmosphere anywhere. Our fans have developed into ~lll'rs, will be in Cleveland for the l\ll'Mannon is expected to continue
the series.

knowledgable participants, and have shown more class, as a whole, thari J.t-fpam National Catholic his domination of the 70 yard any other college crowd. P;Jt l.'onroy (6-10-16) and Paul Championships while the Irish nigh hurdle Pvent while sprinter 


Hl'gan <11-19-30! will center Notre thinclads will visit Northwestern Eric Pt•nick looks to be in top form Our schedule lists four more home games--against North Dakota this Dame's other lines, Conroy skating for a dual meet tonight and then fly for an appearance Saturday in his \I'Pekend. and Wisconsin, three weeks from now. However, a first place hetwl'en Williams and Mike to Cleveland Saturday to compete home city.
'inish for Notre Dame will guarantee additional home playoff games. 
Dunphy and Regan centering for in the Knights of Columbus relays. 
~llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 11111111111111111 ~ 
~'inishing l'irst would be the finest sign of gratitude we could show our Larry Israelson <9-3-12! and Ray Although neither team has fared lam; and a big step toward that goal would be a sweep of this weekend's "Hawk" DeLorenzi 00-15-25). \I'PII this vear. both have individual 
l'ight-point series with North Dakota. With our new-found momentum, !\lark Kronholm, who seems to stars who figure to shine in this ~ Fanatics say: ~ 'our support, and our Smokey Robinson album for warm-ups, we can do have a knack for making clutch 11·eekend's action. Heavyweight AI 1t rll. "Home is where we oughta be!" saves. is likely to start in goal both Hocek chalked up his 16th con-~ ~
"' 
~ Go Irish, ~ 
DOONESBURY 

by Garry Trudeau 
~ ~ 

Beat North
c'HoN_ PHI""' 
5H001?1liE 

Dakota! 
-
i Bring playoff ~!hockey to NO! ~ 
t-J.7 

9.....111111111-11111111111111-lllllllrF 







