OD The Inside 
McGovern interview ..• page 5 
Faculty response to the new calendar .•. page 3 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VIll, No. 46 
r 



Hall presidents
t• t• t neg~ la tJngh or , 
new par y · ouse 
by Marlene Zloza Associate Editor 
Prompted by recent problems in planning hall parties and social events, a group of five hall presidents have formed a committee and begun working with University officials to establish a 'party house' on campus. 
The committee met yesterday afternoon with Vice President for Student Mfairs Philip Faccenda, Assistant Dean of Students Fr. Terry Lally, and assistant to Student Mfairs Fr. Thomas E. Chambers and discussed possible locations and the implementation process. According to Phil Byrne, Alumni Hall president, "we have total agreement that there is no place for hall events now available," and things are underway to change that situation." 
Sorin Preisdent Ed Chute organized the student committee when he realized that at least nine halls have a dire need for some facility to accomodate hall social events including 4oo-600 people and the serving of alcoholic beverages. 
The problem was discussed at a recent HPC meeting and then Chute formed the committee and set up the meeting with Faccenda. 
*************************** 
Mr. Philip Faccenda Vice-President of Student Mfairs 
Mr. Faccenda: 
The HPC Party Committee formally requests that the Central Staff of Student Mfairs im­plement their plans for party facilities on the campus. The committee also requests that the Central Staff of Student Mfairs act immediately on their resolution, considering the present situation in which nine residence halls do not possess adequate space for large gatherings. The halls expressing the need for better facilities are Alumni, Badin, Cavanaugh, Dillon, Howard, Morrissey, Pangborn, Sorin and St. Ed's. 
The HPC Party Committee recommended that the gymnasium behind Holy Cross be renovated for use as a party facility. Considering the fact that the residence halls are not the proper place for a larger gathering, the halls expressed a desire to use this facility once made available. In order to facilitate the renovation of the gymnasium behind Holy Cross, the HPC Party Committee agrees to work in conjunction with the Central Staff of Student Mfairs on this project. 
Respectfully yours, HPC Party Committee Phil Byrne-Alumni Ed Chute-8orin 
Steve DeCoursey-Cavanaugh Wally Gasior-Dillon Bill Hake-Morrissey 
*************************** 
Plans for a party house first originated early in the semester during the revising of the Student Manual party regulations. Faccenda mentioned the possibility of such a facility and the 'red barn' on the edge of campus loomed as the first choice. Several weeks ago the barn burned down and ·after that all planning stopped. 
According to Byrne, Faccenda told the committee that with no organized efforts by the students to push through the plan and little interest expressed to administration officials, the issue had been put aside for the time being. 
But recent experiences in several halls prompted the presidents to reactivate interest and push for a quick solution to the problem. 
In Sorin, Chute claims that there are "no facilities for over 50 people to gather in one place," and several private parties have already posed problems. 
Steve DeCoursey, Cavanaugh Hall president, admitted that several parties in his hall "were in the planning stages but couldn't be followed through" due to lack of facilities. 
.'' 

Academic Council asks students about calendar 
In a meeting initiated by Academic Council representative John Mazzo, a committee of five hall presidents, two Academic Council members and the Student Body Vice President finalized plans to survey the student body to guage the reaction to the 1973 Academic calendar as an­nounced in Friday's Observer. 
While the administration deferred comment on the specific calendar until its official released Friday, it is known that the calendar includes a pre-Labor Day start and a week-long semester break in October. 
The survey will be distributed to the hall presidents at otnight's HPC meeting and Mazzo hoped that they would be distributed to the section leaders who would then do the actual pollong.
"It will be up to the section leaders and the hall presidents to see that they are filled out and returned," Mazzo said. He hoped that they would be returned by Friday. 
The group, which met in the St. Ed's Hall Chapel, also encouraged the off-campus stude~ts to fill out the surveys. The 0-C students can ptck them up in the Off-Campus Office in the basement of LaFortune Student Center. 
The group intends to withhold action on the new calendar until the results of the survey are known. They will be distributing a petition along with the survey calling for a reconsideration of the schedule, but no further action will be initiated until the results are revealed to the HPC in their first meeting after Thanksgiving. 
If the results prove negative to the new calendar, Mazzo hopes to take the issue to both the Academic Council for reconsultation and the Faculty Senate, where he hopes to secure the support of the faculty members of the council. 
The Academic Council, according to Chris Nedeau, the Student Government Academic Commissioner, has the power to "extend or contract" the length of the semester, while the actual scheduling is the Administration's responsibility. 
The Council has two more meetings set for this semester. However, the exact dates of the meetings have yet to be set. Mazzo projected that the council would probably meet next year the of November. (near not year) 
In that meeting, providing student support, Mazzo hopes to get the question of the calendar included on the agenda, a move that he claimed would be Nedeau's job because of his position on the council's Steering Committee. 
Mazzo stated that this issue was an important one, one that "should not go unnoticed." He claimed that "we (the student representatives on the council) shouldn't just watch this sort of thing go by." 
He is prepared to recommend a calendar with the proper number of days and a post-Labor Day start, providing student backing. 
He claimed that student objections to the calendar are not just "whimsical" Particularly he pointed to the economic arguments against the calendar which eliminates one summer work week for the students. 
"There are good reasons for our objections," 
Mazzo said. "If the students want to change this 
calendar, we'll help them." He continued that if 
the Administration "shuts themselves off to the 
students' wishes," it would be "irresponsible" on 
their part. 
Mazzo explained that he has directed his ac­
tions through the HPC because "they are the 
most representative body" on campus and that 
he has proceeded with the "support and 
knowledge" of the SLC and Student Government. 
The Hall Presidents in attendance were Wally 
Gasior, Dillon; Ed Chute, Sorin; Lynn Larkin, 
Walsh; Art McDonald, St. Ed's; and Bob Howl, 
Lyons. · 
•"-lllltftftfttllliftlltiiiiNIIIIIIIIIIIHfiiHIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIftlllnlltlllllllllliiW 
CALENDAR SURVEY Please answer honestly and comments are encouraged. The proposed calendar for the 1974 Fall Semester begins August 28. It Includes a semester break of approximately one week in October (which may encompass one or two home football games). 
1. 
What is your class? Senior Junior Soph. Fresh. 

2. 
Do you favor this proposed calendar? Yes No If your answer is yes, you need not answer the 


remaining questions. 
3. Would this calendar affect your opportunities 
for summer employment? Yes No 
4. Would this calendar appreciably decrease 
your summer earnings? Yes No Approximately how much? 
5. 
If you planned to attend summer school, would this calendar interfere with your scheduling? 

Yes No 

6. 
If you intended to live off-campus, might this affect your housing arrangements (rent, sub­1 letting)? 1 

Yes No 

7. 
Did you remain here for the October (1973) 


1
break? Yes No 
8. a. Would you leave campus during the 
j
proposed (1 week) October (1974) break? Yes No 
b. If it meant missing a football game? Yes No 
c. If the dorms and dining halls were closed but you could still remain (similar to spring break)? 
Yes No 
9. Would you prefer a full week vacation at 
Thanksgiving to the proposed October break? Yes No 
10. Would you be in favor of an alternative calendar starting after Labor Day, eliminating the October break and extending the Thanksgivin!:l vacation to a full week? 

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIiiiiNtiiiiiiiHHtllllltiiiiiiiiiHHIIIIUAI IIIAAIIIIIII 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
At Alumni, Byrne noted the problems his hall has had with their upcoming dance. "We had planned to use the Regina Hall lounge at St. Mary's," stated Byrne, "and when that became unavailable we tried to find a place at ND and the best offer was Stepan Center, which accomodates 5,000 people." As a final choice, Alumni is now renting the SMC Dining Hall and has the problems of decorating in between meals and rearranging all the furniture immediately after the dance. 
Two locations were suggested at Monday's meeting and both were discussed and debated. LaFortune ballroom is one possibility, but its public location would necessitate close controls and put limits on other activities in the student center. 
The favored choice is the gymnasium behind Holy Cross Hall, which has an isolated location and good size, according to committee members. 
"The major obstacle to the gym is that it is now being used as storage space," explained Chute. But if a place can be found to accomodate the stored articles, the gym could be availabe very soon. All committee members are in favor of the gym and voiced this approval in a formal letter to Faccenda, released last night. The letter, written by Chute and Dillon Hall President Wally Glasior, includes an explanation of the present situation and the request for the procurement of a party facility for general hall use. 
According to committee members, Faccenda appeared "completely favorable" to the plan and will present it to the executive officers of the University for their approval. If the plans are implemented quickly, the facility can be ready for use late this semester or early next year. 
Committee members are hopeful that the situation can be resolved soon. "It is important for the students to realize that the administration is interested in providing facilities for social events," summarized Glasior. Chute added that student support and cooperation is needed to complete the project successfully. 
.. '...' 1i .. i \...... ·~ ....-l,..J ·.~'\~! "'.7~~ \:! ··~\:.\...;'."'\'t.'1,t II"":&),·',~~.,. 
l. the observer Tuesday, November 13, 1973 
New cracks discovered 
warld 
briefs 
Washington UPI -A House Judiciary subcommittee, on a 5-4 party line vote, Monday approved legislation to create a court­appointed special Watergate prosecutor. The full committee takes it up Tuesday. 
Washington UPI -Congress acted Monday to provide President Nixon with new powers to conserve energy, make additional sources of fuel available and assure that the hard­ships of shortages are evenly shared: -The Senate Interior Committee raced to complete drafting in time for Senate consideration this week a bill giving Nixon all the provisions he requested five lays ago in a television address to the nation. The bill gives Nixon short-term authority to in­stitute gasoline rationing -a step Interior Secretary Rogers, 
C.B. Morton and other officials call inevitable. -The Senate Commerce Committee hoped to complete action on a bill to restore daylight savings time on a year-round basis to curtail the use of electric lights in late afternoons. Senate ap­proval of the bill could come this week, and, if the House goes along, clocks might be turned ahead an hour on Dec. 2. 
Peking UPI -Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger was summoned unexpectedly to a lengthy meeting with Chairman Mao Tse-tung Monday, contributing to speculation that Sino­American relations will be broadened in the future. 
Kissinger sent a wire to President Nixon following the nearly two-hour, 45-minutemeetingof at Mao's residence on the edge of the Forbidden City. Details of the conversation were not disclosed. 
Belfast UPI -Police said at least 13 persons were injured Monday in one of the most intensive bombing waves against Roman Catholic targets in Belfast. Security officials theorized Protestant extremists were responsible. 
Phnom Penh UPI-Government forces fought day long battles Monday in efforts to reopen strategic route Highway 4, used by truck convoys to bring much needed supplies from the coast to beleaguered Phnom Penh. 
ot.~ campus. taday 
11:00 am-lecture, new york painter david diao, art department presentation, room 104, o'shag 
2:00 pm · film, kenneth clark civilization series, 'the hero as artist', engineering auditorium 
4: IS pm-address, father hesburgh to the faculty, washington hall 
7:00 
pm -meeting, great books discussion group, room lOS, made leva 

7:00 
pm -lecture, 'charge accounts and credit cards and establishing your credit record, john b. bloomer, vice­president of american fletcher national bank, carroll hall, madeleva 


7:30pm-symposia, 'amin', 'uganda', and 'racism', moderated 
by prof. chemponda, profs. adebisi, scott and horan, spon­
sored by black studies program, library lounge 

-at nd-smc: 
Senior W"Olnen plan 'fall fest dinner' 
by R. Thomas Thues 5:00 p.m. in the Knights of Staff Reporter Columbus building followed by a dinner at 6:00 p.m., in the South Senior residents of Badin, Walsh, Dining Hall Faculty Dining room. .. Farley and Breen Philips are in­The entertainment will range vited to attend the Fall Fest Dinner from waiters in Glee Club tails to November 16. strolling violinsts. The possibility 
The event was planned by a of a small chamber orchestra is group of women in the senior class also being considered. for the purpose of "building Tickets for the event will cost $5 solidarity among the senior ' per person. Reservations can be women." According to one of the obtained from Carole Rechsteiner, organizers, the event will give the 435 Walsh (8163); Cathy Kelly, 333 Notre Dame senior women a Farley (6845); or Ann Martin, 403 chance to dress up and meet each Badin (8016). other. Those interested should R.S.,N.P. 
A sherry party will be held at as soon as possible. 
Space flight postponed again 
By THOMAS BELDEN CAPE CANAVERAL <UPI) Discovery of additional cracks in the Saturn 1B booster rockets brought a second post-ponement Monday of the Skylab 3launch; the last scheduled voyage to America's orbiting space station. 
William Schneider, Skylab program manager for the federal space agency, said the new cracks were discovered during a "routine inspection" of the booster rocket and caused an indefinite delay in the planned launch Thursday of astronauts Gerald Carr, Edward Gibson and William Pogye in a mission that could last up to 85 days. 
"At this point, the launch on Thursday has been scrubbed. We will be able to tell you tomorrow what the full implication of what we found is," Schneider told an afternoon new briefing. 
He said engineers were not immediately certain how serious the new cracks mightbe, but that officials felt they were "of a serious enough nature that we decided we will not launch this Thursday." There is another "window" on Friday during which the rocket could be launched, but delay beyond Friday would mean at least a five-day postponement until the orbiting :Skylab space station is again in position for rendezvous with the astronauts in their modified Apollo capsule. 
The new cracks were discovered as launch crewmen were finishing the big job of replacing all eight of the 24-story Saturn rocket's tail fins, where hairline cracks were found last week, causing a delay in the originally scheduled Saturday launch date. 
Schneider said engineers planned notonly to investigate the new cracks, but also to undertake a 
'careful reassessment' during Monday evening and Tuesday morning of other aluminum alloy material in the rocket. It was structural members made of the alloy which showed the cracks last 
The Observer is publiShed daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the 
' University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S8 per semester ($14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
1 
' 
1 
week and Monday. If these cracks proved serious 
enough to require replacement of 
The cracks discovered Monday the aluminum, as was the case were near the point where the first with the tail fins, it could mean a ~~d second stag~s of the Saturn ~re lengthy delay which would have JOme~ on. alummu~:n spars which the Saturn returned to its assembly remam _with the first stage after building, the stages separated and separation. the repairs made. 
HlllVY 




lliUillH 
VIRGIL FOX 
WITH 
REVELATION LIGHTS ALL-BACH PROGRAM RODGERS TOURING ORGAN 
WED. NO. 21, 8:30pm MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 
RESERVED SEATS $6, $5, $4. 
$1.00 STUDENT DISCOUNT WITH ND-SMC ID. TICKETS AT MORRIS 
CIVIC BOX OFFICE 11:00-5:00 DAILY. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION, 
CALL 232-6954. 


GUESS .WHAT! 
Those old stereotypes about business education and 
business careers are gone. Today, you don't have to 
be an undergrad business major to have an attractive 
career in business. In fact, our intensive 11-month 
MBA program equips people for management 
positions whose undergrad degrees range from 
science and engineering to the liberal and fine arts. 
We'll be on campus: 
November 14, 1973 
COME MEET US. THEN JOIN US. 


University of Pittsburg 
Graduate School of Business Contact: Career planning and placement-Saint Marv's College 4431 for appointment 


Disbarment petition · filed against Agnevv 
ANNAPOLIS, M. (UPI) THe Maryland State Bar Association initiated action Monday which could lead to former vice president Spiro Agnew being barred from practicing law anywhere in the United States. 
The association filed a petition in the state Court of Appeals requesting a court hearing on disbarment of Agnew because of his conviction on a charge of federal income tax evasion. 
The judges of the appeals court were expected to name a three­judge panel within the next two days to conduct the disbarment hearing, according to Court of Appeals Clerk James Norris. 
Norris said the Appeals Court judges can name any state judge to the panel and also will determine where the panel meets. He declined to predict how long the disbarment proceeding might take. The State Court of Appeals will have final review of the recommendations of the three­judge panel. 
The petition seeking the court hearing was accompanied by the docket entires form the U.S 
District Court in Baltimore con­cerning Agnew's conviction last month on a charge of federal in­come tax evasion, and allegations of bribery and extortion. Agnew resigned the vice presidency last month after pleading no contest to the tax charge. He paid a $10,000 fined and was placed on probation. 
The Board of Governors of the state bar association voted last week to file a petition seeking Agnew's disbarment. It was originally expected that the petition would be filed in the Circuit Court of Montgomery 
Agnew lives. 


ACAPULCO 
Dec. 21·28 

$289 
ComRiete 
Students, Faculty, & Stall contact 
233-4818 EVES.
vagabond

toars 



WHAT'S YOUR GIRL BACK 
HOME 
DOING TONIGHT? 
Long distance still is the next best thing to being there. And you can save money by calling nights or weekends. 
l 1 
~ 




@Indiana Bell 
n­

its penalties only on these young and 
powerless men. That cannot be fair, cannot 
be in keeping with our best ideals. 
Our war, we trust, is over. The nation now has much to do, much that' it can do only as a united people. There is too little mutual trust among us, too much that is corrosive of hopes and spirits. 
A general and unconditional amnesty would be a simple and clear act. It would be a sign that we want to live at peace with each other, that we want to end within 
ourselves the awful divisions caused by the 
way, that we want to get on with the work of 
making this a better land. 
Who can be opposed to such an act? Can the dead speak, and advise us? Or can any speak for them? Would we really want to turn to parents of the dead and set them speaking against each other, some urging amnesty and some opposed? 
Are veterans (including former prisoners forthright leadership, as did people in the South when segregation was outlawed. 
We believe that if Congress or the President will give the American people the opportunity to be generous and just, the nation will be so. We ask for that op­portunity. 
Does this nation, that was established to "form a more perfect union" and to "insure domestic tranquility," not want to heal it­self? Do we not want to take this chance on justice? 
There are few acts a government can decide upon that clearly and immediately benefit individuals; amnesty would be one. We think it would be even more. We would 
: be saying to ourselves that we now put the Vietnam war behind us, with its terrible freight of bitterness and recrimination, and of corruption and brutality too. We would signal a decisive turning away from the darkness of the war years, and toward National Mississippi. LESLIE DUN The Field VERNON A. The New World Rabbi MAURI President, Congregations. ERIK. H. ERI author. 
W.H. FERRY, Foundation. LAWRENCE J. 
U.S. National WILLARD Psychiatry and author. ERNEST G Senator from MICHAEL even Hence, any'undebatable" question, an assertion of an official position on throw its moral weight into the 
any such questions by ,thisantiabortion issue. Some years University would limit its claim to 
ago at the height of the civil rights the name. Father Hesburgh has and Vietnam crises others called for Notre Dame to serve as 
passionately urged that the "a crossroads where all the vital 
University take a public stand on intellectual currents of our times 
these questions. Thus far the meet in dialogue, where the University has wisely avoided Ch,urch confronts the modern asserting that it has an official world ... where every sincere position, as a University, on any inquirer is welcome, listened to number of political, moral, ethical and respected by a serious con­
and theobgical issues. It should sideration of what he has to hardly be necessary to suggest the 
say...". We think this is sound scope of problems which the philosphy and we stand foursquare 
University might be called upon, behind it. by various advocates, to assert its George B. Craigpresumed collective force. As Robert P. Mcintosh 

'EVERYONE'S CONSERVING OIL-WE THOUGHT YOU MAY CARE TO JOIN USI' other nations havelong since Department of Biology 

the observer 
Night Editor: Robert Baker Ass't. Night Editor: Tim O'Reiley Layout: Gary Allietta, Marlene Zloza Day Editors: Tom Bundy and Marlene Zloza Compugraphic: Tom Wich Typists: Barb Norcross, Connie Fourrer, Howard Halle, Carol Rechtensteiner, Phil Orscheln 

,. 
Sports: Greg Corgan and Peggy Lawlor Copy Editor: Marlene Zloza Pictures: Jerome Rosenthal Nig... Controller: John Flannigan 
• 
' 

\ ' • ~ I 'i-~ ~ ·~ • .... {>' ' .... \ t, ",'. ·~,' 
U> Tuesday, N~C:ember 13, 1973' ,.~; ·the observer 
. ·~""'. 

McGovern reflects one year later 
by Dave Kaminski Staff Reporter 
This interview with Senator George McGovern was conducted during a car ride from the airport to the Morris Inn, immediately after the Senator's arrival in South Bend. 
Observer: During last year's campaign, you called on America to"come home' 'to the principles on which the country was founded. Because of the Watergate affail, are we indeed starting to come home'? McGovern: I do think that in an ironic way, the tragedy of Watergate juxtaposed against the Nixon landslide, was the shock that the country may have needed to force a reexamination of the course we were on. 
I detect a new hunger to put this country back on a constitutional foundation. We can't go on with the kind of arbitrary, expedient rule that the Nixon administration has practiced, particularly the callous disregard fOr law and constitutional procedure that Watergate represents. 
So it may be that the revelations 
of Watergate will accomplish what 
I tried unsuccessfully to bring 
a bout through my candidacy, 
namely, a mood where we can 
begin to return to a rule of law 
rather than the rule of men, especially the rule of one man. Observer: Despite President Nixon's sharp drop in popularity, do you think that the country will take that extra step necessary to impeach a president, whomever he may be'? McGovern: The present ad­ministration has cultivated a notion that the presidency itself is almost beyond the reach of our political process. Nevertheless, the Constitution provides for recourse against a president whose integrity and loyalty to con­stitution and law has come under serious doubt. I think that the House Judiciary Committee should continue to investigate the possibilities of impeachment. 
And I am in favor of im­peachment rather than resignation because resignation leaves questions unanswered. A thorough going impeachment investigation will finally establish the guilt or innocence of the President. Observer: Can the President offer an explanation of his actions in the Watergate affair that would give people something to believe in'? McGovern: I think that op­portunity is gone. There have been too many coverups, slick ex­planations, and reversals for that. I don't think the public can any longer exonerate the president on what he contends is a full disclosure. I think that day is gone 
and now the only option open to the President is either resignation or impeachment: Observer: If President Nixon either resigns or is impeached, what do you think of the possibilities of a special election'? McGovern: There is a possiblility of a special election. But I think that a practical pre-condition of either persuading the President to resign or persuading Republican members of the Congress to vote for impeachment will be the confirmation of Gerald Ford as 
Vice Presidnt. 
Although I question some of Ford's ideological views, I don't know of any scandal or illegality in his background. That being the case, the Republicans did win the election of 1972 and I would be inclined to vote for the President's choice for Vice President. Observer: Do you see a danger in stopping with the removal of the President and not going on to reform in this country'? McGovern: I hope that our current crisis doesn't merely stop at the removal of a president. Congress is partially responsible for the trouble our country is in today. We haven't insisted on full disclosure, especially in regards to national security and foreign policy. I would hope that the Congress would become critical of itself and reassert its responsibilities, especially_ in the areas of war, 



SMCraises$800 for United Way 
by Judy Rauenhorst Staff Reporter 

St. Mary's College contributed $800.10 to the United Way through an auction held during dinner at the dining hall October 31. 
Senior Kathy Hessert initiated the idea of an auction and organized the event through Student Government. Hessert had seen the Democratic Committee for the State Party in Indianapolis have a successful auction. 
"They auctioned off everything from a shetland pony to a complete funeral, " safd Hessert. "It is an easy way to make money because the donations are not difficult to obtain from local merchants. All we needed was manpower." 
"Student Government officers went to stores and solicited for donations. All of these con-
G.O.P. Chairman Bush to appear at Law School 
Republican National Chairman George Bush will be on the question-and-answer firing line during an unrehearsed "Con­versation with Bush" scheduled for 2:15p.m. Tuesday, November 20. 
The appearance is sponsored by the Notre Dame Law School Student Bar Association and will be held in the Law School Lounge. The conversation will be open to 

George Bush will answer sp~­taneous questions from the pubhc ,­on Nov. 20. 
J & J Grill '" 

the public and there will be no formal address by Bush. Instead, he will answer questions from the audience. 
After the Conversation, the national chairman will be one of the honored guests at the Michiana Republican Rally at 7 p.m. Tuesday, November 20, in the Notre Dame Athletic & Con­
\ vocation Center. The featured speaker will be Presidential Adviser John B. Connally. Honorary co-chairmen are Governors Otis R. Bowen of In­diana and William G. Milliken of Michigan. Bush has been Republican national chairman since January, 1973. Before that, he served two years as the permanent U.S. ambassador to the United Nations. In 1966, he was the first Republican to be elected to Congress from Harris County (Houston), Texas, and in 1968 he was re-elected without opposition. 
J & J Grill 
w
X 1 o~'~<; 14 h,., 
t.)
u 
..... 
:E NO Students 
z 
Welcome.
z 
~ 
n
"'~ ~~..J,"'
-,..., ~,. 
X
"' ' '\ 

tributors-received free publicity " Hessert explained. Donatio~s come from the administration, faculty and students as well. 
Items donated included a 'Silver cup from Fr. Hesburgh celebrating the 125th Anniversary of the University, a typewriter, .hair­dryers, pop-corn poppers and an autographed N.D. football that went for $70. 
The auctioneer, Mark Bam­
benek, professor of chemistry, made a raspberry cheesecake that sold for $18. A steam iron was donated by South Bend Mayor Jerry Miller. Donald Hornig, Chairman of the Sociology department, offered a candle-light dinner for two at his home, and a room-cleaning for a girl's dorm room. 
Hessert added that $48 were made in private contributions following the auction. 
"We want to thank everyone. There was an overwhelming amount of enthusiasm from students and generosity from those who donated, " l'AID Hessert. 
peace, ~nd t.he powers of the purse. Observer: How much do you thin• 
I don t thmk that the system of the Watergate scandal is a mattE:' checks and balances is working of momentum and attention'? If no well today. We have moved, in the • further revelations come to th" words of Prof: Arthur surface, or if the attention of th:-
Schliesinger, to an "Imperial I nation shifts to another area Presidency." The President now there a chance that the m~v ~ takes all legislative initiatives, toward impeachment will die'? allocates the budget, and rules a McGovern: I think the action ha • ~ombination of veto, impoundment now moved from the Senat· of funds, and secrecy. Watergate Committee to the Hous•· 
I hope that this arrangement Judiciary Committee. And th• between the President and action of that committee doesn' Congress will be squarely
challenged. (continued on page 7) 

Senator George McGovern: "I feel a new hunger to put this country back on a constitutional foundation." 
STUDENT DISTRIBUTOR WA:NTED 
Excellent full or part-time sales opportunity available. Sell brand new, factory fresh, fully guaranteed 8 track tapes. Amaze friends. students, neighbors with your Low Factory Distr·ibutor prices. Earn top commissions for each quick sale and repeat orders. Complete Detai Is and Catalog -Gallery Tape Distributing Co. P.O. Box 982, Pekin. Illinois 61554 
Anyone wishing to purchase a 
Freshmen Photo Directory 11lay do so: 
TUES. & WED. 2:30 -5:30 STUDENT UNION OF­FICE, 4th FLOOR LAFORTUNE. 

g & g productions present 





THE ISLEY ,BROTHERS 
alstw featuring 

RIOT Sunday November 18 
two shows 7 & 10 p.m .. 

.Morris Civic Auditorium 
fckets on sale • Morris Civic Auditorium box office . open 11-5 p.m. daily except SundaY._ 
---· -­
the observer Tuesday, November 13, 1973 
J 
:True House seeks Christian goals 
by William Murphy Staff Reporter 
"True House allows us to, in a real way, make Christ the center of our lives,"said John Murtaugh and Jim Kelleher, members of True House, describing the purpose of their charismatic com­munity. 
Origin 
The roots of True House were formed in 1967 as the Charismatic Renewal was first developing. Two Notre Dame students decided to take advantage of, what they termed, God's actions in the Charismatic Renewal, to form a Christian community whose total lifestyle was involved with God. 
The name, True·House, comes from Dr. Herbert True who donated the building where the original community lived. The building, itself, is gone now but the name remains as a reminder of the help of True during the community's early stages. 
Beliefs and Purpose 
"Love", said Murtaugh, "is the highest ideal of True House, just as in the Catholic Church. The charismatic community wholeheartedly supports the teachings of the Church. Our liturgy has. the same essential parts as well as !Spontaneous prayer and the exercise of other charismatic gifts." 
"The idea of True House," said Kelleher," is to allow people to live out a committed life to Christ, a total Christian life shared with other members of the community." 
Kelleher pointed out that some people on campus might view True House as an elitest group. He stated that the members of the community don't think this is true. "The means of leading a Christian life", said Kelleher," are many and varied. People must find what is best for them. We believe True House is best for us." 
Structure ·of True House 
True House has about 60 members from Notre Dame, St. Mary's and recent graduates and married couples from South Bend. The community has five coordinators drawn from within itself. Reverand Edward O'Connor, associate professor of Theology, and author of The Pentecostal Movement In the Catholic Church, serves as a spiritual advisor 
to the community. 
"Fr. O'Connor", said Murtaugh, "has been in­volved in the Charismatic Renewal since its in­ception and has been a driving force within our community." Reverend Kenneth McGuire, also a member of the community, acts as another spiritual adviser to the members of True House. 

Observer lnsi'dht 
The basic unit, into which True House is divided, is the household. There are three households at Notre Dame, one at St. Mary's and several Off­Campus. The household meets for morning prayer for spiritual preparation towards the coming day. They eat a communal breakfast and sometimes meet for other meals during the day. . 
"We lead a normal life", said Murtaugh, "except that it is explicitly Christian." 
Murtaugh also pointed out that the on campus household is not the idea. All the members do not live together as they might Off-Campus, therefore not as much of their lives are shared. True House does encourage the mel).lbers of the household to try and room together, according to Murtaugh. 
Ongoing Plans 
There are, at present, no plans for a single main house for the community, said Kelleher. "We will continue to try and establish more households for the community as needs and resources dictate," he explained. 
"We do have an ongoing evangelism program", stated Murtaugh, "to draw people to True House. We invite people to atend our various community functions and as they see a need to lead a deeper Christian life we hope they will become more in­volved in the community." 
"There is something else we wish to make known", said Kelleher. "The evangelical thrust of True House is to bring people to an awareness of what it means to follow Christ. People not in True House may still receive help from or participate in our activities." 
"We also wish to point out that there is a distinction between True House and the Charismatic Renewal. If someone wishes to un­dergo a baptism of the spirit to become part of the renewal they need not join our community," noted Kelleher. 
True House offers a seven week, "Life in Spirit" seminar leading to baptism of the spirit which is open to everyone. The seminar deals with an awareness of our relationship with God; the role of Jesus in that relationship; and how the power of the Holy Spirit can become an active force in our lives. 
Other True House activities open to all those interested include the True House Mass, Tuesday through Friday in Zahm chapel at 5:15 p.m.; aSunday liturgy in Lewis Hall chapel at 10:30 a.m.; and a Public Prayer Meeting in Holy Cross Hall at Notre Dame on Thursday evenings at 8:30p.m. 
Why Come to True House 
"We believe", said Murtaugh, "that True House really makes a difference in our lives. People around the country are searching for a meaning for life. The idea of living a Christian life has answered many people's search and has given meaning and purpose to life for them." 

ATTENTION SOPHS & JUNIORS 
Due to graduation, the position of STUDENT UNION DIRECTOR will be vacated. Anyone wishing to apply for the position for next semester and next year, please come to 
Student Government Offices Tuesday & Wednesday afternoon 



1-5 p.m. 
nT 


McGovern reflects at ND 
(continued from page 5) 
depend on exciting new develop­ments as it does just a thoroughgoing investigating of the leads they already have. They're already investigating 22 separate impeachable offenses. In any one of those develop a fairly solid foundation, then they have a fairly strong case for removal from office. Observer: If the President is impeached, you will be sitting in the Senate in judgement, to determine if the evidence warrants his removal from office. Is the evidence against Nixon strong enough to do that now? McGovern: I would want to reserve final judgement until all the evidence is in. But I am convinced in my own mind that probable cause of guilt is sufficient to continue on with impeachment investigations. Beyond that I will have to reserve judgement until a later date. Observer: Can you predict what effect such scandal in our government will have on politics in the future? McGovern: I don't think anyone will be elected to high office in the near future without a high moral standard. You're going to see more empasis placed on ethical and moral conduct. Observer: How is this similar to 
the reform movement in American city politics? McGovern: I think we will be going tyhrough that kind of phenomenon, where clean, high minded candidates will have a better chance at being elected than in recent years. Observer: Will the Democrats overwhelmingly benefit from the scandal of this Republican ad­ministration? McGovern: I don't think that this is going to lead to a partisan sweep for the Democrats. There is going to be a voter cynicism and skep­ticism in the future. 
No longer can you say, "Let's rally 'round the party and get out to the polls. It's going to be a question of who can instill voter confidence and interest. Observer: We saw the press come to bitter words with the President during his last news conference. How do you think that the American press will change because of the Watergate scandal? 
McGovern: I think quite the opposite of President Nixon, that the press has not been too harsh in its criticism of the Nixon Ad­ministration. On the contrary, it has not been harsh enough. There is not enough investigative reporting, enough analytical reporting or critical judgement being done. My complaint with the 
SMC frosh officers race narrows to three tickets 
by Janet Longfellow staff reporter 

SMC Freshman Class Officer primaries narrowed three candidate tickets to two in yesterday's primaries. Mary Ellen Carter and Sue Egan will compete for Freshman Class President in the run-off election on Thrusday. • 
'The winning ticket consisted of Mary Ellen Carter, Liz Coughlin, Beth Costello, and Mary Coughlin with 56 votes. Sue Egan, Maureen Tonshack, Nan Jenkins and Kin Reiken came in second. Cam­paigning for these two run-off tickets began last night and will run until midnight on Wednesday. 
Final voting will take place Thursday from 10 a.m. to 6:00p.m. in the residence halls. 
Two Freshman respresentatives to the Student Assembly were elected from three candidates. Top two finishers Cathy Coyne, receiving 87 votes; and Arlene Gatmaipan, with 59 defeated Kathy Schomer who received 58 votes. 
On behalf of the Election Committee, Patti Kampsen com­mented, "I was relatively happy with the turnout, but I'd like to see more voting in Thursday's final elections." She stated the Regina had a good voter turnout, but "McCandless, Holy Cross and LeMans were all weak." 

Hedjuk recital scheduled 
•


for tomorrow even1ng 
James Hejduk, a prominent New England organist and choral conductor, will present an organ recital at 8:15 p.m. tomorrow in Sacred Heart Church. The Wed­nesday recital, which is free and open to the public, is sponsored by Notre Dame's Department of Music. 
Currently director of choral activities and organist at Milton Academy, a suburban Boston college prep school, Hejduk received his undergraduate organ training at Westminister Choir College in Princeton, N.J. He earned a master of music d~;;gree in choral conducting from Indiana University and has pursued graduate work at Oberlin College Cm ·ervatory, the University of Coi Jrado, and in France. 
This summer Hejduk will lead the Milton chorus on a concert tour to Romania. 
The recital program includes "Apparition de l'Eglise Eternelle" by Olivier Messiaen, "Fantasia in G Major" by Johann Sebastian T 
1ch, "Prelude and Fugue in A 1\. nor" by Johannes Brahms, and "Pastorale" by Jean Jules Roger­Ducasse. 
THANKSGIVING BUSES TO CHICAGO 
DEPART CIRCLE 1:00pm WED. NOV. 21 ARRIVE O'HARE 2:30 (CHICAGO TIME) 
RETURN SUNDAY NOV. 25th DEPART O'HARE 8:00pm (CHICAGO TIME) ARRIVE CI~CLE 11:30 (SOUTH BEND TIME) 
SIGN-UPS AT TRAVEL BUREAU, BADIN HALL. ALL SALES FINAL. 
-----, 
l 
~ 
.~,..,~~:· ''''.iq-.7,;\, .. ,, 
1
Tuesday, November 13, 1973 the obs-erver 7 
l 
I I



CLASSIFIED ADS 
press is that it seems to swallow the conventional wisdom rather than digging behind it. 
The best reporting done in recent years has been done by the two young reporters from the Washinton Post in uncovering the network of Watergate evils. That's the kind of work that respectable reporters should do, and hopefully will be doing in the future. 
Finance lecture 
to be presented ·at Carroll Hall 
"Credit: It Can Make or Break Your Future," fifth in the series "Looking Into Your Financial Future," will be presented tonight 1 at 7:30 p.m. in Carroll Hall, Madeleva Memorial. 
Speaker for the evening will be Jack Bloomer, vice president of the American Fletcher National Bank, Indianapolis, Indiana. He will discuss charge accounts, credit cards, and establishing a credit record. 
Bloomer also serves as president of Shoppers Charge Service, Inc., a subsidiary of American Fletcher Corporation, with whom he has been associated since 1969. He previously was employed by the Diners Club. 
Bloomer received his education at LaSalle College, the University of Pennsylvania, and Stonier Graduate School of Banking. He has served as assistant vice president and director of the Charge Account Bankers Association. He lectures each semester at Indiana University, and has taught an installment credit class at Indiana Central College. 
"Looking Into Your Financial Future" is sponsored by the department of business ad­ministration and economics, Saint Mary's College, in cooperation with the Saint Joseph Bank and· Trust Company, South Bend. All lectures in the series are open to the general public and are free of charge. 

WANTED 

need riders to New Jersey for Thanksgiving. Will leave Sat. Nov. 17. a.m. Call Paddy or Mark 234-4455 after 7 pm. 
One roommate ND Apts. 2nd semester. Call Jimbo 283-1552. 
HOUSEPARENTS: married couple, preferably without children to live in Girl's Group Home. Room and board + monthly salary. Husband may work or study outside the 
Home. Time off is provided. 
Call Mrs. Carol Wilken at 233­9491. 
Need 2 tix Wisconsin Hockey, either night. Call Dick 234-3285. 
RIDES WANTED 
Need ride from New Haven area on Nov. 25. Call Matt 8417. 
Need ride to Cleveland can leave after game Thurs. Call Greg 7865. 
Need ride to Bowling Green for weekend of Nov. 17. Call Rick 233-3945. 
Ride wanted to Mpls-St. Paul , leave 11-17, return11-25. Will share expenses, dr.iving Connie 3857. 
Ride needed to Cleveland Fri. Morning. Call John 282-1568. 
FOR SALE 

MEERSCHAUM PIPES! Exceptional values, per­sonalized service. ACatalog. 
PMP Co. Box 44 Gaither­sburg, Md. 20760. 
Turquoise jewlry from the southwest-great for unique Xmas gifts. Call 8373 or drop by 209 Pangborn. Advent dolby. Almost new. Msut sell. 
Call Mike 1487. 
8 track tapes $2.49 Catalog. Box 189, Uleta, NMB, Fla. 33164. 
for rent 

6 BR house, just renovated, wa11-towall carpet. Com pi etel y furnjshed , fireplace. For grad studnts only. .Jan. semester or immediate occupancy. All Brasseur 289-2461. 
Rent cassettes $1.50! Catalog 50 cents. (refundalble) Box 189, Uleta, NMB, Fla' 33164. 
NOTICES 

Typing: experienced in theses, dissertations, essays, term papersr Call 232'-9061. 
EUROPE! Take advantage of the specialists, British Air­ways-BOAC. Group inquires welcome. Call 234-2098. 
GOODTIX FOR THURS. NOV. 15 + FRI. NOV. 16 PER­FORMANCES OF GODSPELL AT MORRIS CIVIC ARE A VALl BLE AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE , 2nd FLOOR LAFORTUNE, 11:30--5 DAILY. 
Californii:l Club Xmas flight signups travel agency Nov. 9-27 
!208.50. 

Will do typing: term papers, manuscripts etc. Call 233-6090. 
SMC GIRLS: Take the Greyhound to Chicago for Thanksgiving. Buses depart Fridays from ND at 4:55. 2 
Buses return Sundsys. Call Tom Boyer 272-1807 for in­formation. 
Morrissey Loan Fund can loan up to $150 at 1per cent interest, 1 day waiting period. Basement of La Fortune. 11: 15­
12:15. Mon. ;Fri. 

TONY' SHOE SHOP: Shoe repair, shoe sales, watchbands, zippers, shoe care supplies. All types of leather repair. ON CAMPUS behind Adm. Bldg. 
LOST AND FOUND 

Lost brown wallet 8th floor Flanner. Call Ed. 1506. Reward. 
Found one dorset stainless steel watch without band. Memorial Lost and found Dept. 
Found coat left at infirmiary. Call 7497 to claim. 
PERSONALS 

Fe I icitations to Camarryfrom her ardent admirer. 
Joann-I will be waiting for you in the luggage room-Hatchet Man. 
~~--~---------~ ----~1 
the observer Tuesday, November 13, 1973 

'Big Red' captures IH title, 
downs Keenan inovertime 
by Sam Yannucci their 8-6 win over Keenan, Dillon IH procedure, is nothing more than reigns once again as Notre Dame's a tie-breaking mechanism. Should 
In contrast to Pro football's football champions. Although the gameendinatie, each team has ''Super Bowl," which in recent Dillon loomed as the pre-game a chance (4 downs) to score from years has been more of a "Blah favorites, Keenan was not about to the 10.Yard line. This procedure is Bowl," Sunday's 1973 Interhall hand the title to the Big Red on a continued.untilone team has scored football championship was filled silver platter--Dillon scrapped and held its opposition from with plenty of action and ex­hard for the victory, winning it by scoring. dtement. For the third con­scoring on its first possession of the 
The Keenan-Dillon match up
secutive year sudden death sudden death period and then 
figured to be a classic battle from 
<Jvertime was needed to determine foiling Keenan's attempt at 
the very beginning. Dillon came
ilie IH titllest. deadlocking the score. 
into the game as Interhall's most
Involved in each of these last Sudden death which seems to be 
explosive averaging 27 points per
:hree encounters has been Dillon's quite fashionable in IH title games, 
game, while Keenan had the IH's
3ig Red and this year by virtue of for those football fans not versed in 
number one "D" whitewashing:rohn FineraB==;;.-======================================================================================================: every opponent it faced this 
season.During the "regulation" game both teams played pretty much as expected, Dillon stuck to
Blarney Stone(d) 
its ground game andmoved the ball well but Keenan's defense rose to the occasion when they had to. In ·::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::The Ba dger Fan Rule B00k fact Dillon was denied five times­. . . . they threatened once in each of the 
. The phone -:vas rmgmg. I wondered who would ~ callmg me at this first three quarters and twice in :-,our of the mght. I wondered who would be calling me ~t _all. M.nY the last stanza but the Big Red 
111

curiosity, possibly aroused by my insense for the 1d10t ca g, could never muster enough 
me at 2a.m., motivated me to pick up the receiver. strength to puncture the spirited"Is this John Fineran?" the voice at the other end asked. Keenan "D." I felt like saying no, but like I said before, I get so few phone calls these The lnterhall football season came to a close Sunday as Dillon won the 
days. Instead, I answered the mysterious caller in the affirmative. "I can't say enough about our title in a hard-fought defensive struggle. "Is this John Fineran, the Observer hockey writer?" he asked. Again, defense, commented Keenan Keenan's Walter, talking about opened the overtime series ina an affirmative answer, but with traces of annoyance in it. coach Tony Walter," "They were the attempt, said "It wasn't double flanker formation, it tipped 
"Listen, Notre Dame is playing Wisconsin this weekend," the voice great." Dillon's head coach Mike anything new, we've had it in our us off, we knew they would try the .vent on. Big deal, this is all Ineedat 2a.m. Someone telling me the Notre Bireley also had kind words play selection all year. We were on scre-en on one of the downs-they ::lame hockey schedule. I figured it might be Steve Klein of the South (although not during the game) the 6 yard line with 20 seconds left just executed perfectly." Bireley ilend Tribune or Notre Dame trainer John Whitmer playing another trick about Keenan's defense, "We knew and had to get some sort of score-added "We were going to use it on Jn me. they were good. We executed it was a chance we had to take." the opening play but decided to 
Before I could tell the prankster where he could stick his telephone, he pretty well, they just shut us save it." 1uickly told me, "I'm from Wisconsin, and I have some information down." Had Keenan successfully picked vhich might help your team beat Badgers." up the three points, it is very As it turned out it was well worth 
I quickly jumped out of bed, turned on the lights and took the message: One excellent sample of how the probably that they would have won saving. Halfback Mike O'Neil then ·'In your mailbox, I have just put a copy of the official Badger Fan Rule game was played came in the third the ball game. Instead of a Keenan compounded Keenan's worries :look." And then he hung up. period when Dillon's Jeff Pampush victory, however, regulation time when he blasted off right tackle for I wondered what the hell the damn Badger Fan Rule Book would do for hit Mike O'Neil with a nearly ran out with the score stalemated the important two points. i.efty Smith and the boys. And what if he was feeding me misleading perfect 60 yard bomb that carried 0-0 and both teams readied for the 
With the score IH) the actionnformation. Was the Badger book the key to Wisconsin's success story to Keenan's 5 yard line. The Big tie-breaker. 
shifted to Dillon's 10 yard line
Red advanced to the one but then
n the WCHA? 1-wondered. 
where Keenan would have its four Finally, I ambled down to my mailbox in Dillon Hall, encountering an found the going tough and were Dillon won the toss and had first attempts at knotting the score. On1ssistant rector wearing robe and slippers. He wondered what I was doing forced to surrender the ball on crack at the go-ahead score. "We the first play, QB Golden drew
tp. Perhaps I had a girl in my room, he pondered. downs. knew we had to score because Dillon offside, that made it first
I told him I was making a trip to the third floor health spa. He quickly Keenan had the field goal threat,"
Keenan's superb defensive play, and five. Two plays later hard­
iissipated, but I didn't. Instead, I took out my key and opened the box commented coach Bireley.
though, didn't attract all the at­running tailback Mike Parseghian
narked 363. What I found would later surprise me. Dillon's initial strategy was to go
tention. Dillon's defense, anchored dove over for the touchdown.
There, in an envelope, was a red pamphlet with the title the caller gave to split end Billy Hoy but the first 
by Frank Tombar, and Carl
ne. Most of its information was similar to our cheering. We have a Sieve two passing attempts netted a 10 That narrowed the score to 8-6
Weyand, although allowing the
':beer and we did occasionally hear Marcia play Three Blind Mice when yard loss. 
and put all the pressure on the
Black and Gold nearly 4.5 yards
he referees came on the ice. 
conversion attempt. With theper play, successfully stifled On third down from the 20,Reprinted below is the excerpt which completely surprised me. I felt it crowd scrambling for better views,Keenan all afternoon. Pampush faded back to pass,vas indeed most influential aspect of Wisconsin's success. It reads as Keenan broke the huddle and set
looked like he was going to be
ollows: up for the biggest play of the af­
The Big Red were really tested sacked, and then suddenly fired aArticle IV: Use of the Standing Ovation ternoon. On "Hike" however,only once, just prior to halftime screen to tailback Joe Riepenhoff·.. Maximum allowed. There is no maximum of using said standing tragedy struck-the center and thewhen Keenan, aided by a face who had four blockers in front ofwation when Badgers play. 
quarterback fumbled the ex­
mask penalty and a pass in­him and Dillon had the game's firstL Types Permissable. Any excessive noise, which would scare the op­change. "It was just one of those 
terference call, moved inside the 6 points. 
)Osition,can be used. Anything which can stimulate excessive noise (i.e. 
things," said Walter, "We were a
five yard line. It was here Tom­
1orns, trumpets, drums, blowhorns, bells, etc.) is permissable as long as little to anxious."
bari, Weyand, and company dug in "It was the perfect play." noted t remains silent when the other team scores or makes an appearance. 
and forced a field goal attempt Keenan's Walter, "Dillon
>.Times permissable.The Standing Ovation should be used at the correct "Sureit was a disappointment"
which was wide to the left. borrowed it from St. Joe. They he continued, "We played well but

'imes. Whenever the Badgers come on the ice at the beginning of the ~a me or period, a standing ovation is called for. Whenever the Badgers eave the ice, a standing ovation is in order. Even if they lose. Whenever 1 Badger scores, a standing oyation is called for. Assists and hat tricks, oo. Whenever an opposing player is detected for a penalty, a standing wation, marked with cried of "You, You, You" is in order. Whenever the Jadgers successfully kill a penalty, a standing ovation is called for. '· Times not permissable. A standing ovation is not to be given in any Jther cases. 
After finishing thepamphlet, I thought to myself how silly those Badger 
ans really are. After all, Y...otre Dame has the greatest fans in the world, 
md they don't need any written material to tell them how to cheer. 
It is too bad those Badger fans couldn't have seen South Bend's Finest fans that is, not police.) Anyway, Wisconsin students seem to always 1ave a dislike for the other type of "Finest" in action on October 27. And tis equally too bad the Badger gang won't be able to see the Irish fans in 1ction on November 16and 17. I really am sorry. 
The spirit here at Notre nan1e is spontaneous. Hopefully, that spirit 
vill be so spontaneous on this weekend that Badger fans will be able to 
tear it back in Madison. And if you want to know something else, Notre 




OBSERVER 

SPORTS 

IV icers open with win 
Dillon is just a great team." Dillon coach Bireley added "We played like winners. The victory was extremely satisfying." 

Season hockey tickets available 
Those Notre Dame and St. Mary's students who purchased hockey student season tickets may pick them up at the ticket windows on the second floor of the A.C.C. today November 13, from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
Student ID's must be presented
The Notre Dame Junior Varsity Curry (Steve's younger brother) 
in order to receive the tickets.

)ame fans have class, a lot more than those Wisconsinites could ever hockey team opened its season and Rick Martinello finished the tope to have. Anyone who has ever been to the Dane County Coliseum Saturday and Sunday with a pair of Notre Dame scoring. Time of day tickets are called for has no bearing on seat location as
vill realize ~ this fact. wins against the Port Huron 
On Sunday afternoon, Wurst,

Fans are Wisconsin are really detrimental to the hockey program. Bob Juniors. The JV Irish had .to come student orders have already been
Tim McCarthy and Dave Howe

Johnson has accomplished a great deal in building Wisconsin into from behind to record both vic­assigned.
each drilled home a pair of goals as
1ational contenders each year. tories. 
the Irish made it a sweep, 8-5. Bill 

On the other hand, Notre bame ,ans are an asset to not only the hockey Saturday afternoon, Notre Dame Guisti and Locke had the other N.D. andS.M.C.students who did 
came back from a 4-1 deficit in the not purchase season tickets may
lrogram, but all athletic programs at the University. In short, Notre Irish tallies. Notre Dame had

second period to score three goals buy tickets on an individual game
)ame fans have class. trailed 3-1 in the second period.

in just over four minutes late in the basis at Gate 10 of the A.C.C.
I could have gone to Wisconsin when I graduated. I had been accepted 
period. Don Smith and Dave Caron, both 
here. After seeing their fans, though, I'm glad Icam$ere. I really am. 
Notre Dame then poured in six trying to backup Kronholm with

So this weekend, as the Irish open their home season, give them a $3.00 reserved-seat tickets may
unanswered goals in the third the varsity, each played one game, 
;tanding ovation. Give them standing ovations until :it hurts, then give 

period for a 1()...4 win. Torn Wurst Caron returning yesterday from be purchased for $1.50 upon
;ome more. Then give yourself one for being the classiest, the greatest 

and Rick Locke had hat tricks for East Lansing to tend net. Each presentation of a valid N.D. or 
·ans in the world. Behave with class, because that is what Notre Dame 

the Irish, while Warren Schintzius' was outstanding in goal for Notre S.M.C. ID card. Limit one (1)1as plenty off -class. pair and single tallies, by ,~ Lew · Dame. ticket per game per ID. 




