

On The Inside 
Picasso dies ...page 3 SMC candidate plat­forms ...page 10 



Vol. VII No. 110 serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Monday, April 9, 1973 


Goerner's refusal receives praise 
Hart notes congressional civil rights lag 

him an "apostle of justice," ex­
by Jim Ferry file to cut back on the voting rights 'bumpings' would take place and work. After the television camerasplaining that Hart was personally
Staff Reporter act. He admitted that some parts that there would not be an influx of left, they made it work."
responsible for much of the civil 
of the act were "unduly bur­
Senator Philip A. Hart (D­unskilled workers." Hart asserted that the "lack of
rights legislation of the mid-60's. 
densome now" and that there's
Michigan) concluded ' Notre "Most of all, we have to avoid support for a lot of civil rights
Noting the small crowd at the 

"undeniably a new South" but that 
Dame's Second Annual Civil blacks and whites thinking, that measures is a result of misun­
event, Hesburgh observed that "a 
we should "hang on" to the act as it
Rights Lectures Friday night when they're pitting themselves against derstanding.'"
lot of people just don't care stands now until 1975.
he spoke on "Civil Rights from a each other for the same jobs." Future civil rights progress will
anymore about civil rights." 
Hart felt that what progress was
Congressional Perspective: the Facing the busing issue, Hart take "leadership with some kind of 
"I believe we're up against thin 

made was good, but that "the
Future." commented that "the election is political risk," commented Hart,
pickings in the area of civil rights, 
remaining climb requires more
University President Father behind us, and that sometimes "and not a justification for inac­
but somehow it remains our most 
than good will." He said that the
Theodore M. Hesburgh introduced brings us more sanity." tion."
constant and most everpresent 
statutes outlawing discrimination
Hart at the final session of the Law "The unknown is a fertile "It isn't convenient, easy, or
problem." 
have to be reinforced with
School-sponsored event an::l1~alled breeding ground for rumors. No popular today, to work for civil
Hart reiterated this, noting that 

voluntary actions. Hart suggested 
·court has ordered busing to rights, but it's right to continue tothe current disinterest in civil 
that "incentives" be used to 
achieve racial balance." try."
rights is present even in the 
reinforce these actions. 
But Hart feels that busing can Hart was also presented with aSenate. 
Touching upon the area of quota 
work. "The school children of plaque by Fr. Hesburgh thanking"When I said that I was going to 
employment requirements, he said 
Pontiac, Michigan, where people him for his participation in theSouth Bend to talk on civil right' ·­
that "it must be made clear that no 
dynamited the buses, made it lecture series.
said Hart, "one of my colleagues that sat next to me replied 'Who wants to hear a civil rights speech?" 
"I don't want to be too precise, but then l don't want to be too imprecise either. Senator Ken­nedy sits on my left and Senator Muskie on my right." 
Hart attributed much of the past progress in the area of civil rights to the Civil Rights Commission, chaired by Father Hesburgh until last year. 
"I loved Martin Luther King, but I'd like to figure in Notre Dame," Hart said, commenting. directly upon the leadership of Hesburgh, to whom the lecture series is dedicated. 
Refering to future progress in civil rights legislation, Hart a:J­mitted that "from the capitol, it's not a very rosy picture." 
"I get to thinking sometimes that they're organizing raiding parties ~ 
...41r
to attack civil rights legislation." Hart illustrated this when he told of several acts that were placed on 
IIart: I lovt-d !\1artin l.uthPr King hut I'd Iikr to rigurp hi ~otrP Bamt-. Saturda~··s hlo<"k part~· ga\·t-frlt-nds, nPighbors and strangl'rs a t'hant"r to sharr !ionw time>, and somf' tl'hoto h~· :\likr Uuddl rt-frt-shmt-nts togt-tht-r. ' CSt:•rr photo b\· :\likr Huddl by David Rust, 
St-nior Reporter tl Members of the Academic Council yesterday voiced their admiration for government professor Edward ~io£>rner's refusal of the Sheedy Award for excellence m teaching and the $1000 stipend that accompanied it, but differed in their reactions to Goerner's reasoning h£>hind his refusal. 
Goerner refused the award in a letter sent to Arts and Lf'tters Dean Frederick Crosson as published in last Thursday's Observt-r. In it he explained that he could accept neither money nor the award itself without "affirming in deed (if not) in word" his agreement with the recent action taken by the Academic Council rescinding a motion which would :-;ub.kct the University President's appointees to the office of the Provost to the approval of the Council. 
(;oerner told Crosson in his letter that "The Council seemed to he moving in the direction of confirming the ~latus of the faculty as a body of 'Uncle Toms' " with 1ts agreement to University President Fr. Theodore \~esburgh 's arguments against the Provost's ap­
ointment being made contingent upon the vote of the 
ouncil. '~ "Dr. Goerner is a person whose integrity I've respected a good deal, and I admire his conviction," -said English department Chairman Edward Vasta. 
Vasta also agreed with Goerner's general philosophy 
on the nature of the relationship between the faculty 
and the administration. 
"It's not what it should be," agreed Vasta. "But I 
differ with him in this instance on how a better 
relationship could be achieved." 
Vasta said he had voted for Goerner's motion "the 
first time around," but that Fr. Hesburgh had 
proposed another system with which he found himself 
in more complete agreement. 
"He (l-Iesburgh l was proposing that the President {'Orne to the Academic Council with a list of all his ~·andidates for Provost," said Vasta. "The Council would discuss them and then present the record of their \f,tl'liherations to the President, who must in turn present it with his own recommendations to the Board of Trustees. 
"I prefer that to a veto vote," he said. 
For one thing, the English department chairman "'xplained, the faculty should never have the final say·*' matters concerning the University as a whole. A Provost's duties, said Vasta, concern more than just regulation of academics. 
The reason he voted for Goerner's original motion, he explained, was because "There was no other motion around giving us an alternative to having absolutely no say at all." 
Vasta also had a second reason behin his vote for Hesburgh's proposal. 
"I've spent 15 years on University committees," he said, "and I've come to see that on this campus the administration gets what it wants. Our 'debates' over administration proposals are seldom more than polite discussions, after which we pass the things." 
So, concluded Vasta, if "The faculty had veto power, they wouldn't use it. 
"On the other hand," he went on, "if we have all the candidates before us and we explore all the possibilities, then the hard rocks of the issues are raised_ Practically, Fr. Hesburgh 's solution makes better sense." 
Council member Paul Rathburn, local chapter president of the American Association of University Professors, disagreed that Hesburgh's/solution' was-tt.a better. 
"I believe Professor Goerner's original motion was correct and that he deserves the teaching award now more than ever before," said Rathburn. 
"I agree with the principle involved, the principle of academic governJ1lent by consent," said Rathburn. "I agree with Dr. Goerner that for the Board of Trustees and the President to impose a Provost on us from on high smacks of 'academic despotism' (Goerner's phrase). 
"The Provost is, after all, the administrator of the 
' faculty, not its master," said Rathburn. "His leadership role is based on the authority delegated to him by the Board of Trustees, but it will be a hollow authority if he does not have the faculty's vote of confidence.'' 
He went on to say the this principle was "given 
special clarity" by the A.A.U.P.'s 1966 statement On 
tlw Govt-rnnace of the University. 
."'~his. statem~nt is routinely recongnized by 
d1stmgmshed umversities," said Rathburn. "And it 
was recognized by our own Academic Council until at 
Fr. Hesburgh 's urging, the Council chose to reversd its 
vote_" 
Rathburn used the University's situation under present Provost Fr. James Burtchaell as evidence fo his argument for "academic government by consent." 
"Fr. Burtchaell's two years in office have been marked by continuing dissension, disputatious public letters from the faculty, and other forms of con­
trovery," recalled Rathburn. "I have no doubt that some of this could have been avoided had this principle <of government by consent) been observed at the time of his appointment." 
History Department Chairman Bernard Norling said he could sympathize with Goerner's "seriousness" but not his particular conviction. 
"I }Vouldn't want to criticize him (Goerner) because anyone who would turn down $1000 is quite serious about his principles," said Norling. 
But Norling has "no quarrel with the way the ad­ministration runs this place. 
"It's in the nature of an organization to have people ontop making the decisions," said Norling. "It's the same for federal governments, city councils, baseball teams, churches and universities. 
"If the fac~lty gets involved they become ad­ministrators and no longer faculty," he said. "Now, whether or not they'd be better administrators is perhaps another question." 
College of Engineering Dean Joseph Hogan agreed that Goernr's motion to require any nomination to the office of the Provost be approved by the Acade ic Council would be undesirable. 
"I don't know when Dr. Goerner came to Notre Dame," said Dean Hogan. "I believe it was before I came, and I got here in 1967. 
Before I came I knew that the institution was a Holy Cross order and had achieved its renown as a Holy Cross order. I didn't expect it to be like other in­
(continued on pg. 3) 


----------------~--­

the observer Monday, April 9, 1973 
warld briefs 
(t•l lll7:1 Nl'w York Times 

Phnom Pl'nh, Cambodia--Three tankers and two cargo ships from an embattled convov of 18vesst>ls reached Phnom Penh, the besieged capital of Cambodia,/ with the first fuel the city has received in two weeks. The shell-pocked tankers brought enough fuel to last for six days. _ . • .. 
Government officials said nine tankers were needed to ease the critical fuel shortage that began last week when communist troops cut all roads to the capital and blocked traffic on the Mekong Rivl'r. 
Washington--James W. McCord Jr.has told a federal grand jury that Kenneth W. Parkinson, a key attorney for the Republican re~lection committee, was responsible for making cash payments to the Watergate defendants in return for silence after their arrest inside the Democratic National Committee headquarters last June. Reliable sources said that McCord, one of seven men convicted for their role in the break-in, testified that Parkinson was responsible for "applying the pressure" on the defendants to plead guilty shortly before the trial began in January. 
Nl'w York--Monday is the third anniversary of Earth Day, an in­terlude of contemplation of the nation's deteriorating environment and of resolve to rehabilitate and protect it. The anniversary celebration will continue for a week under presidential proclamation. The nation has been profoundly altered by the environmental revolution which has brought about important new legislation, major changes in government, and legal and educational innovations. 
an campus laday 
1: oo p.m:-5: oo ~p.m.--daily adoration '-'bf the blesS'ed sacrament, corby hall, chapel. 
3:30 p.m.--lecture, cardina·l o'hara seri;s;· prof. arnold r. weber, lib. aud. and lounge. 
6:30 p.m.--mini-course, taxes, 204 o'shag. 
7:00 p.m.--meet your major,english, architecture aud. 
7:30 
p.m.--meeting, circle k, room 339, o'shag. 

7:30 
p.m. --duplicate bridge, students and faculty welcome. Ia fortune rathskellar 


8:00, 10:00 p.m.--movie, contemporary french classic, engineering aud. 
8:00 
p.m.--meet your major, sociology, 509 library. 

8:00 
p.m.--lecture, philosophy perspective series, prof. j. katz, lib. aud. and lounge. 



at nd-•mc 

Liu, Fitzgerald appointed in recent announcement 
Notre Dame has announced appointments of a new director. for the Center for the Study of Man inContemporary"Society and a new assistant vice president for ad­vanced studies-instruction. 
Dr. William T. Liu, professor and chairman of the Department of Anthropology and Sociology, is the new director of the Center, and Dr. John J. FitzGerald, who has been acting director of the Center, is the new assistant vice president for advanced studies-instruction.. Rev. James T. Burtchaell C.S.C., University provost, said both appointments are effective July 1. 
Liu, a native of China, received his B.A. from the College of St. Thomas, St. Paul, Minn., his M.A. from Notre Dame, and his doc­torate from Florida State 
University in  1958.  He  also did  
post-doctoral  work  at  the  
University of Chicago.  

H<> taught at the University of Portland • before joining Notre Dame's faculty in 1961. At Notre Dame he was director of the In­stitute for the Study of Population and Social Change and, more recently, of the Social Science Training and Research Laboratory. He was appointed chairman of his department in 
. . 
.. 



I;. ~~--. •.. 
' 
'l 

.--.1a1~, 
. .llal 4 TI'A~~Ir 
I 
' 
1971, following a year as visiting professor in Johns Hopkins University's Department of Population Dynamics. 
The Center which Liu will head coordinates interdisciplinary research in the social sciences and humanities and was first directed by Dr. George M. Shuster. Noting a trend toward interdisciplinary studies in higher education, Father1 Burtchaell said, "Dr. Liu is not only a highly respected scholar but also a proven organizer of teams of scholars. He will con­tinue the unifying leadership provided by Dr. Shuster and his successor, Father Ernest Bartell." 
Father Burtchaell also said Liu would hold a concurrent ap­pointment as associate dean of the College of Arts and Letters in order to reflect the close ties between the Center and the College. 
FitzGerald, who has taught at Notre Dame since 1937, received his undergraduate degree from Boston College in 1933 and his doctorate in philosophy from the University of Louvain in 1937. Before his appointment as acting director of the Center for the Study of Man in September, 1971, he 
' 
I 
· 
CRAIG KAPSON 

or LOIS TRANTER JORDON MOTORS 
159-1981 
For llodenls and l.cully 21 8nd ~ 

RENT·A·CAR 


served as acting chairman of the Department of Philosophy. He is a former head of the Association of Chairmen of Doctoral Programs in Philosophy in American Catholic Universities, formed in 1968. 
Dr. Robert E. Gordon, vice president for advanced studies, w<>lcomed the appointment of FitzGerald to a post vacated by the return of Rev. Villiam A. Botzum C.S.C., to full-time reaching in the Department of Psychology. "We will work closely together to im­plement several programs in Advanced Studies that have been on the backburner for the past year," he commented. 
The Observer is published dally 
during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S8 per semester ($14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 465.56. 
DOUBLE· KNIT SLACKS from$14 
The perfect flare slacks to match your new blaz~r; choose from a good selection of patterns, fabncs and colorings; from Haggar, a famous name in mens wear. 

ON THE CAMPUS .... NOTRE DAME 
THE MAGIC FLUTE 

Till<: NOTHE DAMF<>SATNT MARY'S THEATRE l\lozart's l'Omic opera l'rodu('Pd in association with the St. Mary's College Music 1kpl April 6,7,12,13,14 at 8:30p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium, St. Mary's 
Students -Faculty -Staff $2.00 Reservations: • 284-4176 

SPECIAL WEEKEND ROOM RATES FOR NOTRE DAME PARENTS OR VISITORS 
$6.95  $8.95  
Single occupancy  Double occupancy  
No  Notre  Dame  identification  required,  just  

mention this iad. Effective any Fri., Sat. or Sun. thru June 15th, 1973 except for the weekend of May 18th. 
HICKORY INN MOTEL 50520 U.S. 31 North 

South Bend, Indiana 46635 (219) 272-7555 3 miles North of the Tollroad. 
Ca hi<' T V , A1r Concl , Phones 
Send I his ad lo your Parents. 

Join the unwrinkleables .... 
DOUBLE-KNIT BLAZERS $44.90 
Compare to $60...this classically styled blazer is a great wardrobe investment. In pure polyester double-knit that gives you comfort, and stays wrinkle free. Choose from a variety of popular­solid colors. 




Artist Pablo_ Picasso dies at age 91 

paintings for exhibition at the rather unusual for Picasso." 
villa and refusing even to receive a of some 400 works to the city of<C> 1973 New York Times Avignon Arts Festival, which will The dominant color of the 
delegation from the French Barcelona, and the Palacio Mougins. France, April8-Pablo open May 23 in the Palais des canvases is bistre, a warm, Communist Party, of which he was Aguilar had been renamed the 
Picasso, the titan of 20th century Papes there. According to Paul brownish black, Puaux said. a member, that included his old Picasso Museum. However, the art, died this morning at his hilltop Puaux, the Festival Director who Three years ago 167 of his friend, Louis Aragon, the poet. Franco regime covertly opposedviJ:a in the commune of Notre had visited the artist at his home paintings and 50 drawings were The artist had a succinct reply to the museum, and the artist's name Dnme de Vie here. He was 91 years on the Riviera above Cannes, the shown in the Palais de Papes. They 
those who asked him why he was a was not on the door. 
canvases covered his output from constituted Picasso's production
of age. Communist. "When I was a boy in AParis friend credited Picasso's 
The death of the Spanish-born October, 1970 to the close of 1972. from January, 1969 through Spain, I was very poor and very sense of
gift to Barcelona to his artist was attributed to a heart "There was something com­January, 1970. The pictures were 

aware of how poor people had to irony. "He liked the idea of putting 
attack by Dr. G. Rance, a local pletely different, something more mostly of vibrant men and women, live," he told a journalist in 1947, an important Picasso collection physician who was summoned to serene, something less tortured in often coupled embracing. There adding: 
right in the middle of Barcelona 

the 35-room mansion by the family. certain paintings," Fuaux said were also dozens of goateed, lusty "I learned that the Communists when there is unrest in Spain and Rance said that Picasso had been today in Paris. He added: figures that the artist's friends 
were for the poor people. That was Franco on his way out," the friend ill for several weeks. "You feel there is a change, a called "The Musketeers." enough to know. So I became for explained. • 
With him when he died was his new period. There is much less In 1971, on the occasion of 
the Communists." Outside of Barcelona, where 
second wife, Jacqueline Roque, 47, eroticism and much more softness. Picasso's 90th birthday, the Sometimes, however, Picasso Picasso was regarded as a local 
to whom he was married in 1961. In His wife told me that he was Museum of Modern Art in New was an embarrassment to his catalan who had made good, the the last several years he rarely left working much more slowly, more York, which has the world's Party. A portrait of Stalin artist's paintings were sometimes his 17-acre estate, which was deliberately now, searching and largest public collection of his 
~xecuted on the Soviet leader's hostilely received. A gang of
dogging into each canvas." works, put on a special exhibition. 
surrounded by barbed wire. He death in 1953 caused a furor in the Madrid youths destroyed 24 of his had been in exile from his native At the same time, the French Party leadership. Earlier, the . works there in 1971, and a store land since 1939, when The main subject of 201 works of Government displayed some of his 
Soviet Government had locked its that had displayed his bust was 
art, Puaux said, "Is man, as works in the Grand Gallery of the 
Generalissimo Francisco Franco collection of his early works in the looted. In South Korea, a 
defeated the Republican Govern­always -children, a number of Louvre. It was the first time that basement of the Hermitage 
businessman who sold water­

ment ofSpain in a three-year civil mothers with child, but also the gallery had exhibited the work Museum in Leningrad. colors under the trademark ofmusical instruments, trumpets of a living artist.
war. Publicly, Picasso affected to be Pablo Picasso was arrested four 
About 10 days ago Picasso was and flutes, birds and one very, As for Picasso, he ignored his amused by the Soviet Union's years ago on suspicion of violating helping to assemble 201 of his very beautiful landscape which is birthday, shutting himself up in his 
banishment of his paintings. a law banning priase for Com­Everyone had a right to react to his munists. work as it affected them, he said. Picasso's works fetched enor­
Although the artist passionately mous prices at auction, in the detested Franco, he admired his hundreds of thousands of dollars. 
(THE OBSERVER.) fellow countrymen. An expression By sales through his dealers, the of this affection for them was his artist himself became wealthy, decision, in the spring of 1970, to although the precise size of his give 800 to 900 of his early works to estate was not known.
( Picasso Death ) 
Barcelona. These were said to be In addition to his widow, Picasso the best of his output up to 1917. leaves four children-Pablo, Maya, Earlier, in 1963, Picasso's close Claude and Paloma. friend, the late Jaime Sabartes, Plans for the funeral of Picasso Monday, April 9, 1973 Page 3 · had donated his Picasso collection were incomplete last night. 
Picasso analysis 



A genius for the ages in a variety of roles 
by Alden Whihnan hull's head. western world, a certain mark of cluttered with junk-pebbles, did was for him an incomplete 
(c) 1973 New York Times Picasso was so much known for the owner's claim to culture. rocks, pieces of glass, a hollow experience until it had been 
There was Picasso the works that blurred or obliterated Originals were widely dispersed, elephant's foot, a bird cage, released ana recorded. Once he neoclassicist; Picasso the cubist; traditional distinctions between both in museums and in the hands Afrtcan drums, wooden crocodiles, was I1mching on sole and happened Picasso the surrealist; Picasso the beauty and ugliness and for of collectors wealthy enough to parts of old bicycles, ancient to hold up the skeleton so that it superb draftsman; Picasso the depersonalized forms that he was meet Picasso's prices. And they newspapers, broken crockery, caught his glance. He got up from ribald; Picasso the faithful and accused of being an antihumanistL. were steep. In 1965 he charged bullfight posters, old hats, weird the table and returned almost faithless lover; Picasso the ef­That appraisal disturbed him, for London's tate gallery $168,000 for ceramics. Picasso was a com­immediately with a tray of clay in 
he regarded himself, with all his f'Les Trois Danseuses," a painting pulsive collector of oddments, and which he made an imprint of the
fervescent, exuberant liver; 
Picasso the Bohemian; Picasso the vagaries, as having created new he did in 1925. For a current he never threw any of them away, skeleton. After lunch he drew Saturnine and surly; Picasso the insights into a seen and unseen painting, private collectors felt or permitted anyone to move any colorful designs around the filigree cunning financial man; Picasso world in which fragmentation of that $20,000 was a steal and $35,000 object once he had dropped it, of the bones, and the eventual the publicity seeker; Picasso the form was the basis for a new not too much tossed it, or placed it somewhere. result was one of his most beautiful 
smoldering Spaniard; Picasso the synthesis. As Picasso's fame grew, so did Picasso liked not so much to plates. 
cruel giber; Picasso the ex­"Whatever the source of the his income until it got so that he converse as to talk,and his Here, as in other art areas, when traordinary joker and charade emotion that drives me to create, I could manufacture money by monologues· were usually witty. the inspiration was upon him he performer; Picasso the generous, want to give it a form that has sketching a few lines on a piece of His agile mind leaped from subject worked ceaselessly and with such Picasso the scrooge. Even Picasso some connection with the visible paper and tacking on his dramatic to subject, and he had almost total concentration that he could, for world, even if it is only to wage war signature. He was probably. the recall. example, paint a good-sized pic­
the playwright. 
A genius for the ages, a man who on that world," he explained to world's highest paid piecworker' The same sort of magical in­ture in three hours. played wonderful yet outrageous Francoise Gilot, who was one of his and there were many years in tensity with which he talked went Picasso was a short, squat man tricks with art, Pablo Picasso mistresses, herself a painter. which he garnered more than $1 into his artistic creativity. And the with broad, muscular shoulders remains without doubt the most "Otherwise," he continued, "a million. marvel was that his zest and his and arms. He was proud of his original, the most protean and the painting is just an old grab bag for "I should like to live like a poor buoyant health through his SO's small hands and feet and of his most forceful personality inthe everyone to reach into and pull out man with a lot of money," he had were undiminished from what they hairy chest. In his old age his body visual arts of this century. He took what he himself has put in. I want said in the days when he was were in his 20's. He always had wa·s firm and compact; and his a prodigious gift and with it my painting to be able to defend desperately poor and buring some several projects in hand at the cannon-ball head, which was transformed the art world. themselves, to resist the invader, of his paintings for heat. He kept same time and to each he seemed almost bald, gleamed like bronze. 
just as though there were razor this attitude in the later, ~ffluent equally lavish with his talent. Set into it were deep black eyes of"For me, a picture is neither an 
blades on all surfaces so no one years. "Painting is my hobby," he said. such penetration and alertnessend nor an achievement but rather 
a lucky and ex­could touch them without cutting All his studios and homes-even "When I am finished painting, I that they became his I hallmark.
chance art 

his hands." the 18-room rambling La paint again for relaxation." Women were one of Picasso's,perience," he once said. "I try to 
In the long course of upending Californie in the corniches above Mood was a vital ingredient of
represent what I have found, not 
(continued on pg. I I)
traditionalism, Picasso became a Cannes-were crammed and Picasso. Everything he saw. felt or
what I am seeking. I do not seek-I one-man history of modern art. Infind." 
every phase of its turbulent (andOn another occasion, however, often violent) development he was 
Goerners decision draws praise
he saw his work in not quite so either a darin gpioneer or a giftedeclectic a light "everything I do," 
practitioner. The sheer
he said at 76, "is only one step on a 
variousness of his creations
long road. It is a preliminary 

from Academic Council members
reflected his probings of modernprocess that may be achieved art for ways to communicate the·much later. Therefore my works 
one multiplicity of its expressions; and liP could sav that "It's tremendous when .a man hasmust be seen in relation to 
so Picasso could not be categorized (continued from pg. 1) lht• power r:f his convictions." Otherwise. saidanother. keeping in mind what I as belonging to this or that school, ~litutions. I Pxpected that the Order, through the Nt>deau. discussion on the issue would have tohave already done and what I will for he opened and tried virtually PrPsident. would exercise a different type of coritrol. ultirnatt•ly eoncern the question of the faculty'sdo." · 
all of them. "Fmnkly." continued Hogan, "I am concerned we position in the University.
For all of his guises, or disguises, 
In his peripateticism he worked arl' gl'tling to the point where we become wholly NPdeau was anxious that the Council retain menPicasso had an amazing fecundity 
in oils, watercolors, pastels, dl'mo<:ratic." lik<• Got•rnl'r.
of imagination that permitted him 
to metamorphize a mood or an idea gouaches, pencil and ink drawings "I don't know if I fully understand Dr. Goerner's "Wt• have his thinking and eloquence on the Coun­
and aquatints; he etched, made l'il." said Nt•dl'au. "Anyone willing to be that involved 
position." said Hogan, "but I am disappointed with it.
ito a work of art with bewildering is sonwone we nl'l'd vl'rv badlv."
lithographs, sculptured, fashioned I can sl'e it as another step along the road, which in­quickness. He was, in Andre II still rem;1inl'd in question-. however. if G(}('rnl'r
Malraux's words, "the arch wizard ceramics, put together mosaicG dudl's losing our Holy Cross presence then our of modern art," a man who, as a and constructed murals. Catholic idl'ntily. to our becoming like any other state nwans to stay on the Council. painter alone, produced well over ·Exhibitions of his work, institution. "The 1\t'ademic Council 1bv its rescission of his 
especially in his later years, were "I t•nml' to Notre Dame because it was different," motion I has defined ilsl'lf as· a body that rl'jecls a6,000 pictures. Some he churned 
out in a few hours; other took sure-fire attractions. The mention said Hogan. "I hl'lieve Dr. Goerner's proposal leads us t•onl·eplion of the Uni\"l'rsity as a community in a of his name was sufficient to lure down a road awav from that difference." l"OillllHlll sl'arch for truth and a l'Ommon lo\'e for
weeks. 
"What is art?" a visitor once thousands, many of them only Busirwss College reprl'sentative on the Academic wisdom." said GO('rner in his ll'lll'r to Crosson. asked Picasso. "What is not'?" he hart>ly acquainted with any art, to ( 'nurwil junior Chris Nedeau "as reluctant to make a "A body that so t•oncl'ives itself necessarily l'Xciudes. replied. And he proved this point museums and galleries and statt•nwnt about the situation. pleading the fact that anyorw who thinks <Is I do. sinl'l' we l'annot be expected 
hl'nl'fits. Rl'product!ons and prints tlw issuP was too t•omplicall'd and too sensitive to to dt•ny hy our dt't•d of participation in such a Councilonce by combining a hicycle seat 
wl're nailed up in hojes all over the disntss. what wt•lakt• to ht•true and teach by our words." 
and a pair of handlebars to make a 

prfl 9, 1973 
Featured at King memorial 
Farmer proposes forward outlook for blacks 
by J. Patrick Bo)'le Staff Reporter 

A memorial service was held at Sacred Heart Church for Dr. Martin Luther King last night. The service, commemorating the fifth anniversary of his assassination, was a mixture of songs, dances and speeches. 
The main speaker of the evening was James Farmer, a prominant civil rights personality. Farmer was a close associate of the late Dr. King and is presently on a nation-wide lecture tour. 
Farmer hailed Martin Luther King as, ·'the greatest man that Black America has ever produc~." He call~ the sixties, the Martm Luther Kmg Decade, a time when the questions of civil rights were clear, when one could readily distinguish between suc­cess and failure. 
"We had justice on our side," said Mr. Farmer. "Anyone against us was on the side of evil, injustice, and immorality." 
The seventies have presented the blacks with problems that are infinitely more complex. "These problems deal with education, 
slum housing, the income gap, and. most importantly," says Farmer, "how to bring people together." 
Farmer warned the audience of about 100 people, which included Fr. Hesburgh, not to spend all ofone's time mourning the past. 
. "We mu:ot try to understand it, use it to define the present, and to tell us how to seize the future." The civil rights spokesman urged the blacks to "take stock of where we are now and decide where we should go." 

Farmer feels that everything has changed for the black man, yet paradoxically, everything is still the same. He is saddened because Martin Luther King's dream seems to be farther away today than it was in the early sixties. Mr. Farmer stated: "There seems to be more segregation and racial tension in our country today, than since the time of the reconstruction period." 
Farmer feels the blacks have been neglecting themselves for too long. He said, "We have discovered our heritage, the roots 
Africa, and it is time to practice· by the Student Union Academic self-love." Commission, Office of Campus 
The former associate of Dr. King Ministry, and the Black Cultural closed by saying, "Dr. Martin Arts Festival. The Notre Dame Luther King's message to us in the Jazz Band, directed by Fr. George seventies would be to achieve Wiskerchen, and the Liberation cultural pluralism." Singers, directed by Willie Coates, 
The program was co-sponsored performed during the evening. 
Cinema '73 presents 
"Zazie dans le Metro" 
by Malle 

Mon. 8& 1 0 pm Eng. Aud. $1 
Cinema '73 patrons free 


of our culture and an,:c:es:try~~in~=:::::===================~ 
Photographers wishing to work next year for the OBSERVER & DOME 
Pick up an Application & Questionaire i~ the OBSERVER OFFICE Contact Joe Raymond 10:00 am -5:00pm 






MARDI GRAS '74 
Preparation for Mardi Gras '74 is underway. 
If you are willing to invest some time, have some fun, and further the goals of charity, PLEASE submit your name and 
telephone number to the student union secretary in care of the Mardi Gras Chairman 
Steve Boy. If Mardi Gras is to be a success we need your help. 
PHONE: 7757 

,. t •· ·~ .• '* ...... i-•..•-.-.• -" ' ..• '"' .•i-
Monday, April 9, 1973 the observer 

First Senior Fellow from N.D. 
I
Griff: A very deep happiness' 
by Steve Magdzinski "It says something about the Staff Reporter mood of the times and of the To Fr. Robert .. Griffin, being students that they chose a non­named Senior Fellow of the Class celebrity for the award," said of '73 is to have the students who Griffin. "I sense and I don't want voted for him say, "We accept to impose my views on others--that what you've done.'' In an interview there is a lack of leadership in the Saturday, "Griff" talked about country. I think that at such a time himself, the award, Notre Dame the students turn to someone and the country. within the community." He said Asked about his feelings on being the best of our leaders have either named Senior Fellow, Fr. Griffin been assasinated or hurt by the said, "It's feeling a very quiet and political maneuverings of others. yet very deep happiness. That it It is said, he observed, that we should be given to me, the first have as President "no one stronger Notre Dame person, of all the than Richard Nixon and no one great Notre Dame people that have stronger to oppose him than been here, I really can't put into George McGovern, who is a good words the kind of happiness I feel. man. But we need not a good man. I'm just so tremendously thrilled We need a charismatic man who about the whole thing." can give us a sense of our own 
Fr. Griffin compared his feelings direction." to being covered with a blanket in Some students had earlier asked the middle of the night by a good Griffin who they could nominate friend. He said it was a feeling of for Senior Fellow. He felt they having loved and cared for a place were looking for someone who and its people very much, and to would quietly represent the values receive a word of thanks for what they respect. he has done. "I suggested a typical father of a 
Pointing proudly to a brightly-typical senior," he said. "Someone colored sign that said "Griffin who symbolizes the decent life, the Hall," Griffin said a group of off-good values of lovingness and campus students who learned he caring for family. In honoring such had been named Senior Fellow a person, they would be honoring promptly named their apartment all the dads and those kinds of after him. things that give us strength as 
Born and raised in a Protestant people and as a nation." 
family on the coast of Maine, Asked about this year's Senior 
Griffin became a Catholic in his Class as compared to the other 
teens. He graduated from Notre , three classes, Griffin noted that 
Dame in 1949, after which he en-each class has a personality of its 
tered the Holy Cross novitiate. He . own. which is a combination of all 
was ordained a priest in 1954 and the individual personalities that 
did graduate studies at Notre make up the class. 
Dame. Harvard and Boston "You can realize the difference 
University. when you compare the Seniors and 
Before returning to Notre Dame the Freshmen," said Griffin. He 
in the mid-sixties, Griffin taught noted that this year's senior class 
English in high school and at is the last class of the protest 
Stonehill College. At the end of his years. It is the last class to have 
first year living on the third floor of been here during the Kent State 
Keenan Hall. a group of students shootings and aftermath. The 
requested he come back the next Class of '73 were freshmen when 
year. Vice-President for Student the Campus Ministry held a Mass 
Affairs Fr. Charles McCarragher for peace in front of the Memorial 
invited Griffin to join the Campus Library in May, 1970. 
Ministry and he has been rector of Griffin said he and one of this 
Keenan ever since. "What I really year's freshmen were recently 
am is an English teacher who is, discussing President Nixon. 
for awhile, doing something else." Griffin mentioned some of the 
After contemplating for a things he felt Nixon had done 
moment, Griffin looked up and somewhat questionably in the past. 
said, "I collect canes, unicorns and The boy responded by saying, 
whales." "You can't expect us to remember 
Black-Hei:1tage presents historical, cultural exliibit · 
by Mike Baum The exhibit also/ details the 
Starr Reporter social, economit', cultural,
Black Heritage, IncorporatE!'d, political and scientific con­an organiza lion devoted .tp tributions of blacks to America. 
destroying "the myths that havf Brought to Notr,e Dame by Black been spun like a cocoon around th~ Heritage in c9'>peration with the Afro-American," is presenting a1r Urban Studies mstitute, the exhibit 
exhibit of the history and progress is under the direction of coor­of black culture in the 2nd flooy~ dinator Alfred Williams, Jr. It took ballroom of LaFortune Stude;t some eighteen months to prepare, 
center. .; 
has been exhibted now for about 
The exhibit, which will remain · two years, and, according to 
standing until Wednesday,'js I Williams is "a lecture I have been 
comprised of some 160 pa,t:~ls giving for the past four or five 
illustrating the developm~~-of years .presented visually." 
chattel slavery, and the .elated The panels, a result of a great
economics, its influu 1ce on deal of historical research, at-
American society and £U~ture, and 
its influence on the )jfack people. (continut>d on pg. 9) 
AN TOSTAL IRISH WAKE 
Tickets $4.00 per couple 
on sale starting TONIGHT in the Dining Halls. 
Limited number avallchle 
that. We were too young at the his agnosticism." the Lonely God, said to him, time." Asked how Darby O'Gill, Grif­"You're basically a conservative 
Griffin responded, "Those who fin's cocker spaniel, felt about the man, but you never let it get in the forget history are doomed to award, Griffin said, "So far he way of your humanity." repeat the mistakes of history." hasn't said much about it, but then, "How much I let my con­
The freshmen don't understand he's had other things on his mind." servatism get in the way, I have no what Notre Dame has gone He said Darby had been running idea," said Griffin. "But I do through to achieve coeducation, around with "harlots and suspect I am rather conservative. according to Griffin. They are Republicans." Of course, it all depends where the different from the seniors, because Griffin said one of the publishers other man is standing that makes they never experienced "the slow of his new book, In the Kingdom of you liberal or conservative." twisting of the person that oc­curred in this all-male at­mosphere." They did not ex­perience the "screaming in­sistence" to go coed. 
"Now that coeducation is here and sacrifices have to be made, people are resentful," Griffin said. He asserted that young people coming to Notre Dame now have an unwillingness to make the kinds of sacrifices necessary if Notre Dame is to go truly coed. 
Musing about the changes that take place in the Notre Dame student, he said, "There is a particular charm about freshmen. They want to be bug-eyed. They are intrigued by all the excellence of the place." 
By the time a student is a senior, he said, he has come to Notre Dame as an idealist, has gone through a period of disillusion­ment, and by the time he is a senior, he may have turned around. "And he may begin to go to Church again--or at least question 







urope. 
r----------------------------------------~
I . . 

! STUDENT·RAILPASS 
I Thew•yto•eeEuropewithoutfeelinglike•touri•t. 
f Student.Railpass is valid in Austria, Belgium, Denmark, , France, Germany, Holland, Italy, Luxembourg, Norway, I Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland. 
I Eurailpass, Box 90, Bohemia, New York 11716 
Please send me your free Student·Railpass folder order form. 0 Or your free Eurailpass folder with railroad map. 0 
Name 
Street 
City ______ 
State ______Zip____._ .-----_ 
192 8 

----------------------------------------~ 
So you plan to spend the and very comfortable. They have to Summer in Europe this year. Great. be. So you'll meet us on our trains. It Two things are mandatory. A ticket really is the way to get to know to Europe. And a Student-Railpass. Europeans in Europe. The first gets you over there, the But there's one catch. You second gives you unlimited Second mustbuy your Student-Railpass in Class rail travel for two months for a North America before you go. modest $135 in Austria, Belgium, They're not on sale in Europe Denmark, France, Germany, because they are meant strictly for Holland, Italy, Luxembourg, visitors to Europe-hence the Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, incredibly low price. Of course if and Switzerland' All you need to you're loaded you can buy a regular qualify is to be a full-time student up Eurailpass meant for visitors of all to 25 years of age, registered at a ages. It gives you First Class travel if North American school, college or that's what you want. university. Either way if you're going 
And the trains of Europe are to zip off to Europe. see a Travel a sensational way to travel. Over Agent before you go, and in the 100,000 miles of track links cities. meantime. rip off the coupon. It towns and ports all over Europe. The can't hurt and it'll get you a better trains are fast (some over 100 mph). time in Europe than you ever thought frequent, modern. clean. convenient possible. 





THE OBSERVER 
A-N INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Jerry Lutkus Art Ferranti Editor-in-Chief Executive Editor 
NEWS: 283-1715 
EDITORIALS: 283-8661 Business Manager BUSINESS: 283-7471 
Dan Thorn.ton 
Monday, April 9, 1973 
.Dan Barrett Executive Editor 
Joe Butler Advertising Manager 
A Different Dpinian Another Spring 
byran kin'=l 
Another Spring is here. The days get longer, the nights shorter. Nature's beauty becomes brilliantly visible, as people everywhere proclaim the glory of God. 
But Spring does not arouse the same feelings in-everyone. 
Spring in Harlem merely marks the annual transition from poverty in the snow to poverty in the sun. 


The Price of Coed 
There is much more to coeducation than simply having girls on campus, but it appears that some students have failed to accept the challenges that coeducation presents us. The proper spirit of coeducation would dictate that a sense of sharing would pervade any sacrifices that are necessary. 
As the people of Badin and Walsh found out last year, moving from your original hall can be a painful experience. It is very hard to pick a section whose tem­perament is similar to the one you are looking for, and the fall brings on ex­perience very much like freshman year. 
But the people moving weren't the only ones who suffered last year. Some of the halls made big sacrifices in order to share their burden, only to feel they had gotten the most unsociable dregs of Badin and Walsh. They spend a large part of this year wishing they hadn't accepted any transfers. 
Other halls were bitter because they felt the Badin and Walsh people had taken the best rooms in the hall, rooms they had waited three years to get. But in the end it seemd as if most of the people had accepted the burden of coeducation. This year the Farley and Breen­
Phillips  people  have  suffered  because  
dorms  haven't  shared  the  load.  A  
number of  the  frosh  and  sophomores  

from Farley and B-P haven't been notified of room picks, while others haven't been given the break they deserve. 
The situation in Lyons Hall is even a worse testimonial to the unwillingness of students to share the burden. The juniors from Farley and B-P moving to Lyons drew their numbers from a general pool, while the Lyons juniors picked first, and only within their class. But the worst thing is that out of 227 picks, the 80 Farley and B-P juniors got only 9 out of the first 54 picks, an extremely rare statistical occurence. 
The juniors of Farley and B-P shouldn't be forced to carry the whole burden; they should be allowed a fair lottery, chosen by class, giving them a fair shot at the good rpoms in Lyons. To do less would be to make them carry the whole campus's load. 
Dan Barrett 


Order In The Courts 
Spring arrived over the weekend and with it, the tennis courts of Notre Dame were packed. And the crowds at the courts brought up a problem that should be rectified as soon as possible. 
The waiting lines at the courts are incredible and there is nol set way of regulating movement on and off the courts. The Athletic Department should set up a system of court regulation that will prevent long waits for courts while a small number of people monopolize their use. 
Play on each court should be limited to one hour for singles and one hour and a half for doubles. A court official should he situated by the main gate and keep a log of what time players take to the court. 
If there is a waiting line, the official will send new players to the different courts as the time limit of the old players ex­pires. 
It is unfortunate that a rigid schedule must be initiated, but something must be done in all fairness for those people forced to wait upwards of two hours for court space. A system of this order will lessen the time that must be waited and will keep the courts open enough so that a11 people will be able to play. 
If the Athletic. Department finds that they cannot initiate this system, then student government should look into the possibilities of beginning it. But whoever ends up starting it doesn't matter. What matters is that someone steps in and solves the problem. 
Jerry Lutkus 

A Fine Fest 
The Sophomore Literary Festival of 19'/3 ended on Friday night upon an ap­propriate note as playwright Arthur Miller engaged and enlightened a packed throng at the Library Auditorium. 
It was in some ways apropos that a man of such talent and fame as Miller put the closing touches on such a magnificent festival. 
The festival ran for one week and its participants spoke to overflow crowds <'verywhere they went. The crowds were indicative of the talent that was assembled here. Notre Dame and St. Mary's came out en masse to listen to the wisdom of Miller, Gwendolyn Brooks, J<'rome Rothenburg, John Ashberry, Chaim Potok, Kenneth Rexroth and Stanley Elkin. 
It all is a tribute to Frank Barrett and all his cohorts who put together this vear's festival. The schedule of events that they concocted comprised one of the finest festivals in years. Plaudits are in ord~r for Frank and all the Sophomore Literary Festival workers. 
Jerry Lutkus 


the observer 

:~~-t-t.w..t.w.u.»;.;..»A~~~!i,:;:;.;:;::.:;:;:;:;:;z:::::::;:::;:::;:::::::::: 
Editorials printed in The Observer reflect the opinion of the writer on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the individual writer they are not to be taken as editorial comment. 
issue staff 
Night Editor Marlene Zloza 
Ass'!. Night Editor AI Rutherford (a debut l Layout Chris Sullivan and Kathy Kelly Day Editor Mary J,lnca Copy Editors Ed Ellis. Mike Baum Pictureman Jerome "103' Phillips Typists Rob B<lrr inqer, Harry Chung, Mary Romer, 
DPnnis A•wstasoff, Steve Roper Night Controller O,we Rust 
::::::::::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:--::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::;:::::::::::::: 
Spring in our nation's prisons simply means that the days on the other side of the bars are warm rather than cold. 
The poor of Appalachia don't do cartwheels at the start of Spring. 
Those who seek amnesty have more important things on their minds than Spring. 
Spring means nothing to a mother whose son has been killed on the street in the ghetto. 
Spring means nothing to a batteJ:ed child, or an abandoned baby, or even a mistreated dog. 
Spring means ab!lolutely nothing to the over 40,000 young men who died in Viet Nam. 
Firemen in our nation's large cities don't particularly enjoy the thought of the coming summer, with the ghetto situation worsening. 
The President is so busy that he probably doesn't even notice the spring. 
Let's not be misled into thinking that people are the only ones to whom Spring can be insignificant. 
For example, Lake Michigan doesn't care too much for Spring, the signal that warns of the coming of inconsiderate beach nuts who further pollute her waters. 
A forest cannot be too thrilled over the thought that it must endure another summer during which it might be burned down by a careless picnicker. 
Penguins and polar bears shrink from the thought of the warm weather associated with our version of Spring. 
Grizzly bears can't be terribly thrilled at the thought of another summer of eluding the hunter's bullet. And the same holds true for deer, ducks. rabbits, and so many others. 
The pea-green waters of the Hudson and Potomac and Chicago Rivers are so dirty that they don't even care about Spring anymore. 
Our national monuments have been so defaced by mindless Idiots that the coming Spring means nothing to them except the coming of scores of other mindless idiots who will further deface them. 
Spring means "nothing to God, for he feels not the cold of winter or the heat of summer. God feels nothing; no emotion. For if he did, he would have mercy upon the inhabitants of his universe. God's essence is devoid of mercy, devoid of love, devoid of justice, devoid of BEING_ Innocent children die, while racists live. Freedom fighters get assassinated, while cancerous rogues infest our political systems. Who can honestly say that he lives a happy life? Are not all of us the victims of a monstrous creator, who was the prime mover of a sadistic system of predation and perpetual tension? Is there one of us who has not wondered, at one time or another, whether life in general is worth it? Whether life has a purpose? Whether it was necessary for a supposedly omnipotent and omniscient being to create a universe which would have been much better had it been left uncreated? 
But let's not think of these things right now_ Another Spring is here. The days get longer, the nights shorter. Nature's beauty becomes brilliantly visible, as people everywhere proclaim the glory of God. 


Wishbone Ash is a virtually unknown group that can put out some good music. But they are basically a show band, using recorded music as a basis to grab all audience by the guts and run them througt their own paces. This was proved Saturda~ night at the Morris Civic Auditorium when they played to an unusually packed house. And despite quite a few production problems that resulted in Vinegar Joe's complete absence, they managed to dismiss their audience satisfied. 
Producer Steve Sebysma's headaches began a few minutes to eight, when the show was scheduled to begin, after he received word that the opening act, Vinegar Joe, would be "a bit late." Seems his equipment truck broke down on the way from Detroit or something. 
At any rate, an hour and twenty minutes later, they gave up on Joe and sent Wish­bone out, just in time to save a lot of refunds. 
Ash wasted no time with "warming to their audience," hut immediately broke into rock 'n' roll. Very wisely skipping over the quiet introductory passage, they launched right into the explosive second part of "Time Was," from Argus, and took the crowd right from the start. 
But it wasn't until the second number, "Jail Bait," that the crowd really began to appreciate Ash's music. The stark, driving beat of "Jail Bait" drove a mass of people down the main aisles and into the orchestra pit below the stage to dance, clap and enjoy. Bassist Martin Turner, who did most of the vocals, was largely ignored for his singing on this .one in favor of his solid bass lines. Andy Powell and Ted Turner helped him out by skillfully switching back and forth from lead to harmony and rhythm guitar, and producing a very exciting sound. 
Ted Turner also displayed his skill on steel guitar on a shortie called "Rock 'n' Roll Widow." But the driving beat of the total Ash almost overpowered him. 
The show lost part of its impetus with the medley of "Warrior" and "Throw Down the Sword", both from Argus, which, though very well-done bluesey numbers, almost brought the show to a standstill by their slower pace. But Andy Powell's beautifully mournful solo in "Throw Down the Sword" made up for it. Not as exciting as the others, but very impressive. 
The sleeper of the evening was Argus's "The King Will Come," whch began with Powell, looking a hell of a Jot like Elton John grinning and slowly plucking quiet notes. Slowly building up, the song suddenly ex­ploded into a good solid rocker that had the crowd on its feet again. Both Powell and Ted Turner showed excellent control in counterpoint and blues guitar during the course of the song. 
A couple of songs from a forthcoming album were also presented, songs which seemed to indicate that Ash is heading back to its beginnings, a concentration of heavy rock. "Doctor, Please" was an excellent example of the old and the new style, and gives something to look forward to. 
Finally an "oldie," according to \Powell: 
the Ash masterpiece, "Phoenix". Not as 
effective as the album version, the song 
nevertheless kept the crowd going with its 
solid main theme and creative bass by 
Martin Turner. Drummer Steve Upton, 
little more than competent on the rest of the 
sets, shone on this one. 
Two encores, one "planned", the other a 
bit more real, followed, ending the show wth 
as much of a bang as it started, as the group 
played "Where Were You Tomorrow," from 
Pilgrimage. Powell's musicianship took a 
back seat to his showmanship here as he 
cavorted around stage, swinging his guitar 
like an umbrella and a machine gun. But 
that musicianship wasn't far behind as he 
put forth with a very well done blues vocal. 
In all, a worthwhile show for the wait. 

Monday, April 9, 1973 the observer 
1 


wishbone ash: worth the wait 



Little Bir:~ Sc:reen 
IS


hitchcock • back 
.~rt ferranti 
There are a couple of movies and a special or two this week that present some fine entertainment from the study doldrums. The most vintage film of the week is the David 0. Selznick production of Alfred Hitchcock's Notorius with Cary Grant and Ingrid Bergman. Grant is a government agent in Rio de Janeiro who watches Bergman, a girl assigned to marry a spy chief (Claude Rains). Not only does it have the Hitchcock brand of sly humor, but it is still the quality Hitchcock in suspense. The 
tense ending of Rains and Grant playing a cat-and-mouse game in front of Rain's superior is classic Hitchcock. Incidentally, see if you can spot the rotund master of mystery in the film since he manages to get into almost all of his films, if only for a second. Make it a good evening by tuning in on 28 Wednesday at eight. 
There is a special at 8:30 the same night on 16 entitled ''The Small Miracle" by Paul Gallico. Raf Vallone and Vittorio de Sica head the cast as priest who become involved with a young boy determined to bring his dying donkey to the crypt of St. Francis of Assisi. Vallone forbids it and de Sica tries to help. Strictly under the label of family entertainment. 
war comedies 
Tonight there are two war-comedy movies airing and f<ms of Butch Cassidy and the Sundam·t> Kid will have to choose which of that movie's two stars they like better. On 16 at nine, Paul Newman stars in The Secret War of Harry Frigg in which Mr. Newman plays a private who does not like World War II but is assigned to free a couple of American generals in Italy. Sylva Koscina, playing a countess, supplies the love in­terest. And Andrew Duggan is typecast again as a general. 
Robert Redford co-stars with Mike Connors and Alec Guinness on 28 at nine tonight in Situation Hopeless--But Not St'rious. This bit of idiocy has Guinness as a shopkeeper who captures Redford and Connors and keeps them in his shop as prisoners until1952 without telling them that the war is over. Take Newman over Red­ford. 
A first rate comedy A Thousand Clowns makes its television debut Saturday on 16 at nine.\Jason Robards, Jr., plays a non­conformist writer, recreating his Broadway role. This Herb Gardiner play-turned­movie also features Barry Gordon as Robards' nephew about whom this comedy revolves. Barbara Harris is excellent as a social worker and Martin Balsam plays the hero's brother, a successful businessman. 
Gene Saks provides a wacky vignette as a crazy children's TV host. All in all, it is not a movie to be missed. 
Dean Marin and Stella Stevens try to play it for laughs but are no where near as successful as the previously reviewed film Thursday in How to Save a Marriage--And Ruin Your Life. This time Dean has to save Eli Wallach's marriage and winds up with Miss Stevens in the bargain. Not a bad deal by any standards; but unfortunately the film itself is. For movie diehards, the flick airs at nine on 22. 
On the made-for-TV circuit, Ben Gazzara and Elizabeth Ashley are plagued by phone calls by a dead boy in When Michael Calls a rerun tomorrow evening at 8:30. James Farantino stars in the pilot for his dud of a series Cool Million tomorrow at eight on 16, this time trying to find a missing heiress. Tht' Man Who Died Twice, airing for the first time,has Stuart Whitman as a recluse ppainter who returns to find someone claiming to have painted his works. You may canvas this movie Friday at nine on 22. "The ABC Sunday Night Movie" has two films which are not pilots since all of the networks have announced their schedules for next year. The first film is "RX for the Defense" with Tim O'Connor and Nancy Marchand. Following that will be "Nightside" with John Cassavettes and Alexic Smith. Yo~Jr guess is as good as mine concerning their plots. 
spl'cial of the week 
The other special of the week is "Hawaii Five-0" Tuesday night at 8:30. Made from three segments presented last January, CBS has stuck them together and edited them for a two and a half hour feature. Entitled "V for Vashon", this is the Hawaiin version of Tht' Godfather (or, as it has been called after the Academy Awards, The 
Godfeatht'rl, with McGarrett going after the son, then father, then grandfather <patriarch l of a crime family. Violence-wise, the bad guys get one, McGarrett two, and one suicide. Victory-wise the outcome is enevitable. Once again, though, this series comes through with a tight script and 
enough plot twists to keep it in the top ten of 
the Nielson ratings. 
last "Amt'rica" t'pisode 
The last of the "America" series airs 
Tuesday night concerning this country's 
penchant for weaponry. Entitled "Ar­
senal", Alistair Cooke chooses to show the 
button which would launch a nuclear attack 
in his final scenes. This great series starts over again in the reruns and airs at ten on 
16. On "ABC's Wide World of En­tertainment" we have on Monday Rod Serling interviews people at L.A. In­ternational Airport; Tuesday, a horror story entitled "The Haunting of Rosalind"; Wednesday, comedy in the form of "Madhouse 90"; Thursday, a mystery called "Possession"; and Friday "In Concert" with Focus, the BeeGees and the 
J. Geils Band. The Stratton Story with James Stewart as the baseball great of the White Sox who made a comeback after a leg amputation is the only CBS late movie worth the watching this week. This film airs Friday at 11:30 on 22. 
This Saturday 1"Creature Features" on 28 presents as its second film The %-D Man, Robert Lansing's the first film. Lee Meriweather is also in the cast about a man who can walk through solid objects and kills his enemies. The best bet for late night viewing Saturday, though, is The List of Adr·ian Messenger, a first rate detective film starring George C. Scott as a master !>leuth and Kirk Douglas as an evil mass murderer. Not only does the plot keep one's 
continued on page 11 

collegiate jazz festival 
The Collegiate Jazz Festival begins its fifteenth year on Thursday, April 12 at 7:30 
p.m. Thursday's show will be a benefit concert for the Minorities Scholarship Fund of Alpha Kappa Alpha, a national Black Sorority, and will feature Cannonball Ad­derly, Hon. Richard Hatcher, a CJF Judges Combo, the Charissma Dancers, the Bill Nicks Trio and the .Julius Farmer Quintet. 
CJF judges 
This years CJF judges include the following: Gil Evans, who is a noted jazz arranger, composer and big band leader, and is best known for his work with Miles Davis including the classic Sketches of Spain. Hubert Laws, flutist and double Downbeat poll winner '72-73. He can be heard on his own solo albums and many studio sessions including Roberta Flack's Quit't Firt>. Joe Farrell plays all saxes and flute and worked a long time with the Elvin Jones Trio. A former Downbt'at poll winner, he has also backed up Laura Nyro and Roberta Flack on Quiet Fires. His latest album is Out Back with Elvin Jones, Chick Lorea and Buster Williams. Dan Morgenstern is a noted jazz critic and editor in chief of Downbt'at magazine. Alvin Batiste js the artist in residence '72-'73 and Director of the Southern University Jazz Program, New Orleans School Systems. He was Director of the Multi-Ethic Music Center and was fifth named clarinetist in the Pla~·bo~· Jazz and Pop Poll. Jimmy Owl'ns is one of the outstanding young New York trumpeters. He "an be heard in ex­cellent form on the Newport in New York rl.'cordings. Hoy Haynes is one of jazz's outstanding drummers. He leads the Roy Haynes Quintet and is most famous for his excellent work with John Coltrane's in­comparable group including Coltrane, Haynes, Jimmy Garrison and McCoy Tyner. 
The festival begins at 7:30p.m. on Friday April 13. An awards ceremony will follow the 7:30 session. After the awards are presented, there will be a midnight jam session featuring the CJF judges. The midnight jam session is sponsored by the University of Notre Dame and NEA ­National Endowments for the Arts. All sessions will be held in Stepan Center on the campus of the University of Notre Dame. 
Bands scheduled to play in CJF '73 include groups from Malcom X College, Texas Southern, Ohio State, MIT, Ohio University. Tennessee State, Wisconsin at Madison. Michigan, Governor's State, Triton College, 
Bowdoin College, Indiana Melodons and Notre Dame.  State,  The  
high school jazz con tt'st  
There will also be  a  High  School  Jazz  

Band Contest featuring 17 bands in Washington Hall on the Notre Dame Campus. This session runs from 9 a.m. to 6 
p.m. on Saturday, Aprill4, and admission is 50 cents. The winner of this contest will play at the CJF Saturday night session. 
Prices for the sessions are: $3 for Friday night. $2 for Saturday afternoon, $4 for Saturday night or a ticket for all sessions may be purchased for $6. Those who wish to attl.'nd only the Saturday midnight jam session may do so for $2. Tickets are a\·ailabll' at the door or the Student Union tit·ket office or at the American National Bank in South Bend. 


What we take off when you take of~ 'his summer 

To get these discounts* all you need is one of our cards-only $3. And you can p1ck up an application at any American t1cket office Or write to 

The Waayfarer Center. t 000 000 M 
TM 
American Airlines. 633 3rd Ave.. New York. NY 10017
JOHN Q TR•Vitl.£8 ~­
It's a good thing to have. --UR)II --:&t.U -12 I7/?0 
You get what you want. but for 
) 
less than you thought. 



American Airlines 
ToTheGood Life~ 

•effective Apnl 15. 1973 11 The Good Lite.. c 196:~. P;.uis Music Co.• Inc. Used by permic;sion. 
Monday, April 9, 1973 the observer 

Placement bmeau reaches few 
by Mike Kulczycki 
Starr Reporter 
"We are not reaching enough freshmen, sophomore, and junior students in our Summer Job Program," said Director of the Placement Bureau Richard Willemin, interviewed Friday, April 6. 
Talking about summer job prospects for ND students, Willemin said, "Our students are very much in demand." However, Willemin added not enough students are signing up and competing for these summer jobs. 
Willemin referred to the ac­companying list of 50 companies which offer summer job op­portunities and urged students to work through the Placement Bureau in contacting these em­ployers. Because, "If we don't fill their requests, we may not get them back." 
Most of of the job opportunities. according to Willemin, have been for engineering and business administration students, specifically chemical and mechanical engineering, ac­counting and MBA majors. Willemin also explained that though a few employers will only accept seniors going on to graduate school, about thirty companies accept applications from undergraduates at various levels, while twenty companies have no restrictions. 
Good Chances 
According to Willemin, company 
recruiters coming to Notre Dame 
practically guarantee that one or 
two of the students interviewed 
will receive summer positions. 
"If we had a full -schedule of students interviewed by each company, the chances of getting a job would be about one in six." said Willemin 
Willemin also stressed not all students have to be at the top level of their class to get a job with these companies, because students at the middle and lower part of their class can be as successful in the job market. Complementary factors such as •extracurricular activities, clubs, and part-time jobs during school often play an important part. 
Career-Related Jobs 
Willemin, Director of the Placement Bureau since 1970, stated the Bureau's aim in helping students find summer em­ployment, "Our main concern is to have students accepting jobs with summer employers to use that experience and money to help them pay for their following year's education at Notre Dame." 
Further benefits of the Summer Job Program were described by Willemin: -Students gain experience at jobs relating to career-areas. -Summer experience may lead a student to a permanent position with the company, which also draws the company back to ND for annual recruitmen~; , -.Students act as ambassadors 
for the company on campus, also strengthening the recruitment in; the following years. 
Willemin stressed the need of 
convincing students to look for 1 
career-related jobs even if they are 
located away from the student's 
local area. The experience gained 
PLACEMENT BUREAU Summer Job Opportunities-1973 
College of Arts and Letters Mutual Benefit Life Insurance Co. Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. 
College of Business Administration Charmin Pi'lper Products. Eastmi'ln Kodak Company. Firestone Tire & Rubber Co. General American Life Insurance Co. Jewel Home Shopping. Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. Proctor & Gi'!mble Co. 
College of Engineering Allied Products. Beloit Corporation. Bethlehem Steel Corporation Charmin Paper Products Deere & Co. Eastman Kodak Company. General Motors. 
W.R. Grace & Co. Johnson Wax Co. Libbey-Owens .-Ford Co. McLouth Steel Corporation. Miles Laboratories. MPR Associates, Inc. Nillional Sprinqs Industries, Inc. Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. 
Procter & Gamble Co. Rochester Metal Products Corp. 
U.S. Civil Service Commission 8 rililway systems 
College of Science Dept. of HEW Ei'lstmi'ln Kodak Company. Libbey-·wens Ford Co. MPR Associates Inc. Mutual Benefit Life Insurance Co. 
All Colleges. All Levels Arnold Bakers. Inc. Coachman Industries Indianapolis Goodwill Industries, Inc. McLout11 Sleel Corp. New Enqland Mutual Life Insurance Co. Southwestern Company. State of Wisconsin. Bureau of Personnel. Yellowstone N,ltionill Pi!rk Service Stations. Vilr ious Cilmp, park and resort iobs. 
So., Jr. So., Jr., Sr., Gri'ld. 
MBA Jr.• Sr. Jr. So., Jr. 
So., Jr., Sr .• Grild. I yr. from degree (MBA) 
Jr. (M.E.) Jr. Jr. So., Jr., Sr. So., Jr. (M.E.l Jr., Sr. All Ch. E. Jr. Jr. All 
Jr., Sr., Grad. M.E. So., Jr.• Sr .• Grad. 1 yr. from deqree MET. 
Jr.• Sr. Jr. Jr., Sr., Grad. So .• Jr. 



SPRING RETREAT 
an experience In Christian living Saturday April 14 1 Oam· 12midnight SMC Clubhouse 
far more info call: 
Fr. Roger Cormier 5389 
Mary Gail Peterson 4494 
Fr. Tom Stella 7323 or 6536 
by Thurs. A ril 1 2 
at this job often outweighs the disadvantage of being away from home. Willemin pointed out some companies even arrange housing for students on a low-cost basis. 
"Supervisory, production, and organizational work activities are wonderful experiences for college students," said Willemin. He also recognized that students often take unrelated jobs simply for higher wages. 
Placement Bureau Figures 
Figures of the Placement Bureau indicate only 250 students have come in contact with the Bureau concerning summer jobs: signing up for interviews, directing inquires from the announcements, or picking up applications to send directly to the employer. 
The Alumni Association summer Job Placement Program (described in Observer March 23, 1973) also used the Placement Bureau to channel 500 applications to area alumni clubs, which are tryinlif to influence alumni to 
provide additional summer jobs. 
Explaining that only graduating 
students have been "conditioned" 
to read the Placement Bureau 
Bulletins distributed throughout 
campus, Willemin has redesigned 
the announcements to include a 
separate one for summer jobs 
directed to all students. ' 
Willemin pointed out the federal 
i~ternships on the list as already f1lled, students having been nominated by department . chairmen and the college deans. 



Black Heritage presents eXhibit 
(continued from pg. 5) you can see another man as a man, then you can understand him." tempt to put down in an easily Working through an appeal to 
, understood way the salient points the intellect, the exhibit is strictly of the black culture. It does not factual. "There is not an opinion on attempt to be overly detailed,, one of these panels," William according to Williams, but, "What commented. we've done is to set down what was Snaking mazelike through the pertinent to show the depth and LaFortune Ballroom, the display nature of this thing." covers such diverse topics as 
"The exhibit was designed to ancient cultures and peoples of the meet the needs of both the black African continent, the black and white communities," he contribution to the Civil War, and continued, "explaining to the modern aspects of the black ex­blacks their heritage an-perience. 
d ... removing false myths that After Wednesday, the exhibit whites may hold." will be moved for two days to the "Our hope here is to change Urban League Experimental 
perceptions " Williams said. "If 1 School Project in Souih Bend 
Working with Williams on the exhibit is his son, Alfred Williams II of the Urban Studies Institute. 
Collegiate Notes 
Understand au subjecTs, Pldy~ i'lnd novels faster! Thousands of topics available within 48 hours of mailing Complete with bibliography· and footnotes Lowest Prices are 
GUARANTEED SEND $1.90 tor our latest descriptive Mail-Order Catalogue with Posti'lge-Paid Order Forms too: 
COLLEGIATE RESEARCH 1 N. 13th St. Bldg. Rm 706 Phila. Pa. 19107 HOT-LINE (215) S63-3ZS8 
'· ·-. • ---~~"""----'·.;.:.···::.:·--~---=-:..:··::·..:..·..::'·:..:·__· __.:_.::...___.=..=..::______--.. 
Interested _in working in the Student Union and serving yo-ur fellow students? 


The newly-expanded Services Commission needs you. 
Come to the Student Union Offices for an interview 

April 5, 9 & 10 2-4 pm 


., .... ,..· \.. ''' the observer Monday, April 9, 1973 
St. Mary's candidates' platforms
-
LWJ-MSLHLHDL&MinndlllllllllllllllftiiiliiDDILLIUIIILIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIDHIIIIIIILIDIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIUIIIHUII..II..II-IIIIIIIBI-QIW------·t·h·e·s·tl·:u·cll:=·u·r~:-·. thel
·:p-:"ui~Py 

. . . . . . . such as senior comprehensives and 
certam flextbthty of mterests that orgamzed student body. I beheve. . ts d · d t d t Studt>nt Board of Governance will a large body would find difficult. the potential is present in the 1 core reqmr~men . eman s u ~n diffuse the power of governance to We all see that there are certain combination of the Student Board; representation _whtch 1 would hke the student where it rightfully needs that the college has but of Governance and the St. Mary's; to be able to giVe. belongs. 
because of limited resources, student-body. There are many times when I cannot provide the student with at After working with Hall : don't feel anything has been ac-this time. We could use maybe four Government for two years I can complished but there are many of these needs and make them see a special need for further more times when I see potential projects that each class could work coordination both within and and talent wasted. Hopefully for during the year. The executive between the Hall Governments. through the diffusion of power, board is structured so if the This realization and my belief in potential and persistence can cut student has questions or the potential of the New Student through some red tape to achieve suggestions they can get some type Board of Governance leads me to facts. I have no political campaign of answer. This is the attitude that run for the position of Hall Life planned. I merely want to expose would be conveyed throughout my Commissioner. In this position I what I plan to do with this Board of Commission. Because I have a slot would plan to channel my efforts in Governance. I believe in the on the student assembly, major the direction of seeing that the student body of St. Mary's College policy changes that the students Student Board of Governance and especially in the experimental would want could be brought to a relates more to the students to Student Board of Governance.Joanne Garrett vote. form a true student alliance. 
Next year 1 would like to "try" as 
This year has seen the change 

Sincerely, Chairman of the Student Board of from Student Body President-Vice Ann Smith Governance to bring about a President to the Student Board of communication among students. 
Governance, with a board of three IIIUIIIIIIIIIIILIIRIUIIIUIIIILIIIIIIIIIIIHIUILIIIIIII As a student at St. Mary's College commissioners to handle specific you are already involved, with this areas. This change to the Board Barb McKiernan change perhaps we can move 
toward a better living environment of Governance will afford the Half of the problem of ridding

students the greater opportunity to oneself of an ailment, be it apathy for all concerned. participate in their own govern­or otherwise, is admitting to Barbara McKiernan ment. It will also provide definite oneself that you have a problem. -lllllftlillllllllillllllllllllllllllllllllllll 
points of reference. Since each At this moment I feel I have a 
POSITION OF THE

commissioners has a specific area particular problem that is shared to deal with, it will become easier with the entire student body at St. PLATFORMS ON THIS for students to obtain first-hand Mary's, the organization, com­PAGE WERE CHOSEN AT i~formation and to participate in munications and governance of RANDOM 
discussions. Through such an that student body.
eoc:chahge, the Board will be better Being a member of the class of equipped to represent the student '74 I cannot ignore the stigma that body as fully as possible. was inflicted on this particular
After having seriously con­class during the merger break­sidered the changes and the Tess Lehman down of 1972. In many cases the

Ann Smith
.,otential power of the student body members of this class are a little 
of St. Mary's, I have decided to run In the past two years the St. After two consecutive years on hesitant to put their faith into an for Student Affairs Commissioner. Mary's student,body has both seen the Student Assembly and as a organization that seemed to reflect I have had experience in Hall and experienced many changes member of the task force on their opinion to the minimum. Council, Public Relations for within its College. Among these student government structure, I Whether this hesitancy is well­Regina Hall, Hall Life Com­changes is the recent adoption of a think the new tri-partite govern-founded or not, it does exist, not mission, and the Task Force on new structure for the Student mental system will be both more only in the present junior class but Health. I want to see the new Government. It appears to me that efficient and more effective as the sophomore class as well. structure of Student Governance this is a positive/ step towards real well. There are many times when I work and I am willing to work to student organization and unity. This year student channels of have sat back and wondered how keep the students informed and to The New Student Governance communication concerning the students could ever get a un~ed work for what the students truly Board will not only deal concretely academic affairs have been government working equally with desire. with the different areas of student greatly improved. And next year it the administration. I must confess 
governance, but it will also serve will be equally important to fur-that many times I was veryThank you. 
to synthesize and coordinate the . ther these communications. The discouraged. This year hajj been to areas into a unified body. As would field of academics is of major ·me a year of reconstruction andJoannt> Garrett be the case in any new govern­concern to all of us at St. Mary's. change. I could see many things
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIILmll 
ment, our initial' year under this In my opinion area which wrong with our present structure structure will be most crucial in demands a concentrated effort.I'm' therefore I tried to initiate a way determining our future as an m sure we all agree that areas that could bring more students into 





Lyon Hall residents vote to hold general lottery 
Riehle properly understood he manner as the Breen Phillips­by George E. Adelo probably would not have allowed Farley transfers. "The peopleStaff Reporter the lottery to proceed on that basis from Breen Phillips and Farley The lottery plan was to have theE) were to receive equal treatmentIn a short meeting Sunday night with Lyons but as it turned out itB-P and Farley residents chOOReLyons Hall residents voted to hold

M.L. Stallworth didn't happen that way."
on a general basis from the '!.2:1

room picks on a general lottery After numerous complaints from beds available. Lyons Hallbasis after learning that the
People have come and asked me Breen Phillips and Farley
residents were to choose on a classmethod they had used previously

"Why do you want to be Student residents Father Riehle decided to
basis whereby seniors wereto include the incoming Breen

Affairs Commissioner?" And my invalidate the lottery and notified
allowed first choice from thePhillips-Farley students had been

answer is simply this: "Just to be Dehner that another lottery was to
numbers not randomly assigned toinvaliclat.ed bv Fr. Riehle.

of service in anyway I c~n to the be held. Residents had the choice 
the Breen-Phillips-Farley

student body and I feel I could do a Hall President Jim Dehner in of picking on a class basis so that
residents. 

good job." commenting on the matter said all seniors would choose first, I can say that my experience in that the situation had been blown solution to satisfy followed by underclassmen, or to hall and student government has out of proportion. He explained choose on a general basis such that 
"We did not mean to be unfair," 

prepared me in such a unique way, that the hall government tried to no one would have an advantage
stated Dehner. "We figured we

especially as an RA and Vice­find an "equitable system to over anyone else. They opted for
were all in the same boat, dealing 

President of the Junior Class, that alleviate as much unfairness as the general lottery. 
with the same problem. I don't most problems I can assuredly possible." 

think there is a solution to the good rt>lationshandle. Those problems which I situation that will satisfycannot answer I will definitely find fair for all everyone." Dehner expressed the hope that someone who can. I've talked with The misunderstanding occurred "everything could be worked out," The Hall government tried tothe originators of the experimental when it wasn't clear that the Lyons and stressed the importance ofdevise a plan that would be fair notstudent government program and residents would not be choosing on having good relations with theonly to the evicted Breen Phillips­they feel as I do that the new ex­the same basis as the B-P-Farley incoming : B-P Farley residents asFarley residents but to LyonsperimPntal Executive Board residents. Father Riehle stated they will constitute over one thirdresidents, while still allowing up­will be just as good as we, the that he understood that Lyons Hall of the Lyons Hall population nextperclassmen the opportunity ofstudent body can make it. 

residents would choose in the same year.

choosing a better room.
It has tremendous possibilities and it is completely The root of the problem lay with open to the new ideas of the the fact that 118 of next year's 2Z7 New York college elects students student. Lyons hall residents will be 
What would I like to see done seniors. Thrity-eight are presently to represent on board of trustees with the position of Student Affairs in Lyons, the remainder coming 
The winner will then face con­Commissioner? First, the coor­from Breen-Phillips-Farley. 

Two students will sit on the sideration by the board'sdination of class officers is one of Fattier Riehle had approved the board of trustees at Keuka College nomination committee for final:he basic responsibilities of the lottery method presented him. 

in Keuka Park, N.Y. beginning approval. Only juniors and seniors office. I would like to see the Dehner added that there had ap­September 1973. The students, a are eligible. The junior will serve·.;tudent body take more of an in· parently been a misun­junior and a senior, will be elected two years, the senior one. Thus aterest of the class unit. Because of derstanding :is to how the lottery by the students from candidates new student representative will bethe size it would contain in itself a was to be conducted and had Fr. screened by the student senate. elected each year. 




ATTENTION 
ALL 


RADUATIN STUDENTS 
Measurements 
will be taken 
for 

CAPS and 
GOWNS 
Thursday 
April 12 
and 
Friday 

April 13 
between 

9:00 -4:00 
at the 
NOTRE· 
DAME 




BOOKSTORE 
Monday, April 9, 1973 the observer 1 1 

Miller appears as festival finale 

by Don White jail because-, they won't thinks of critics. 
my initial attraction to it.,.,;-,~." is therapeutic, then, in that it helps Staff Reporter acknowledge their sources, Miller 

The first question asked was Miller was also asked if he ever to find some meaning in life," said u• :;mil~>: said". ··•· · whether or not Miller thought he felt he was "burning out your 1.;reat MiiiPr.
The 1973 Sophomore Literary 
Festival saw a fitting terminus Miller told the audience he was a had a Gr~ek sense of tragedy in his theme'?" He replied that every new Miller stated that he thought the member of the)'lxecutive Board of plays. Miller answered that he had 
play carried the biggest/theme he future of the American theatre toFriday night as playwright Arthur International Pen, organiztion about tragedy. The

an two thoughts 
ever had. be "terrific once the real estateMiller fielded questions from an of writers, editors and scholars in first was that most of the Greek "I don't worry about themes. I question is settled." He explainedoverflow crowd in the Library sixty countries. The organization plays he knew of did not conform to see things cyclically now, so that this by saying that the theatre wasAuditorium for more than an hour has a Writers in Prison Committee Aristotle's definitions of tragedy. 

everything seems to be coming generally situated on the mostand a half. which attempts to get some of the The second is to ask what is back. And I wonder if I ever really expensive real estate on earth.

After thanking some of the writers freed, but for the past valuable in a tragedy. He said that 
learn anything." Plays must consequently supportpeople "behind the scenes," seven or eight years, the list of it would be fruitless for him or The gray-haired Miller later high taxes, which in turn raisesFestival Chairman Frank Barrett writers in prison has continued to anyone else to try to imitate the added that this cyclical view was prices and reduces patrons. Thestated that he would not even at­grow larger, Miller aserted. Greek definition of tragedy. 

not new for him, that it had been in future of the American theatre,tempt to introduce Miller, who Remember this when you read To tragedy has a

him 
his plays before but he wasn't then, lies in the suburbs and not inproceeded to stroll to center stage stories about writers in prison. I 

psychological-social value in that 
aware of it. the big cities.

accompanied by an exuberant don't think you can have a great the writer tells a story that brings Miller admitted that he loves to
round of applause from the crowd. The distinguished playwright
country with writers in prison," the audience to an emotional pitch "dialogue endlessly." Some may
Miller began by stating that he showed tremendous rapport with
commented Miller. that gives insight. "It comes down say that this is insane, he said, but 
felt he should say something about This year's Sophomore Literary to this," said Miller, "th!lt you the audience throughout the
it is really "no big thing-insanity

writers in prison. "There are Festival was dedicated to im­evening, as evidenced by the
scare someone until he has a vision 
is a mirror art. The stage

several hundred writers in prisons prisoned writers and literary enraptured crowd that kept
he won't forget. It's a powerful reproduces our thrust for sanity

today ... and not all of them are in artists the world over whose works way to tell a story, and that was questions flowing. 
that we can't find in life. The stage 

Hussia," he told the audience. are suppressed.
Greece. Brazil and some other The famed American playwright Latin American countries, and a next began answering questionsfew African countries all have from the floor. Questions ranged 
Picasso genius took .many for1ns

writers in prison. And from time to all the way from his personaltime, U.S. newsmen are thrown in dramatic style to what Miller 
(continued from pg. 3) loan for many years to the world as a symbol of peace. But museum of modern art in New masterpiece pr something not so York. An oil on canvas 11% feet exalted, virtually all of Picasso
most persistent preoccupations. high and is a25% feet long, it was interesting and provacative.
Apart from fleeting affairs, there 
majestic, stirring indictment of the Praised or reviled, his work never
were seven women significant in 
destructiveness of modern war. By Pvoked quiet judgments. 
his personal and artistic life. 
contrast, another masterpiece was 1 ne al"ust, nowever, nela a
As with most illustrious men, 
a simply and perfectly drawn different view. "There is no such
Picasso attracted gushing ad­
white pigeon, "the dove," which thing as a bad Picasso," he said,
mirers and sycophants. Some 
called him "maestro" and fawned was disseminated around the "some are less good than others." on him for the subsidiary fame that came from standing in his light. He was not above their company, and, indeed, he seemed to have relished some who gave him favorable publicity. One of his materpieces was "Guernica," painted in 1937 and on 


Cancellations, new shows 
created in the pilot The Six Million and Ken Curtis (who will leave hi.s Dollar Man every fourth week. He Festus role on "Gunsmoke"), also interest, but a surprize enomg will still co-star with Arthur Hill in ·from a recently aired pilot. "Love
adds to one's enjoyment. It should 
"Owen Marshall". Story" will feature a differentair at 11:30 on 22 depending on the NBC has canned "Circle of story and cast of characters eachlength of A Thousand Clowns, but it Fear", "The Bobby Darin Show", week but use the 1970 movie theme will be shown. 
"The Tuesday Night Movie", continually and "NBC Follies" will Canct>lations and New Shows: "NBC Reports", "First Tuesday", be the new "Hollywood Palace".
Last week this column reported the 
"Laugh-In", "Search", "Escape", No new replacements have beenchanges in the CBS fall schedule. 
"Cool Million", and "Madigan" listed for "The WednesdayHere are those for ABC and NBC. 
(not "Banacek" as had been Mystery Movie" with "Banacek".
Axed on ABC are "The Paul Lynde Four new TV also that
forecast earlier). sit­Guide reportsShow" although Lynde will replace 
coms will be "The Girl with "Questor" a new Gene Rod­James Whitmore on "Tem­
Something Extra" starring Sally dentmry sci-fi show and "Tenafly"peratures Rising", "Mod Squad", Field as a wife who can Johnread with James McEachin as a black 
"The Julie Andrews Hour", "The Davidson's mind, "Lotsa Luck" 'private-eye are also on the 
Men" <which is a shame since starring Dom DeLuise as a bus schedule but both The New York "The Delphi Bureau" segments lost-and-found\clerk, "Needles and Times and The Chicago Tribune deserved a second chance), "Here Pins" with Norman Fell and Louis 
have left the two shows off the list. We Go Again", and "A Touch of Nye as inept dress manufacturers, "The Dean Martin Show" has had Grace". New on ABC are sitcoms and "Diana" which marks the a major revamping and will be 
"Bob and Carol and Ted and return of ex-Avenger Diana Rigg called "The Dean Martin ComedyAlice", "Mr. and Ms.", police­to TV as a single British fashion Hour". "The Little People" will in 
detective series "Toma" starring designer in America. On the the future be called "The Brian Tony Musante as the undercover police-detective circuit, "Police Keith Show" with no loss of 
cop seen a few weeks ago in a pilot, Story" inspired by the Joseph characters. Check listings for all "Griff" starring Lorne Greene as a Wambaugh pilot two weeks ago time changes in September.retired police captain-turned­will have different stars each detective, and a suspense-movie week, "Chase" starring Mitchell Trivia Question: Who was the 
series three times a month with Ryan as an undercover cop first movie Tarzan'? "Cyborg" a science-fiction series <produced by Jack Webb>, and starring Lee Majors in the role he "The Magician" with Bill Bixby 'UJO:lU!'J OWl:!{ 
White Sox Ope~ing Day Trip 
Tomorrow, April 10 
Buses leave from circle promptly at 9:30 
15 spots still left· act today. 
For information call: Leo Breen--418 Morrissey 3651 Mfke Llns·-3648 




Monday, April 9, 1973
the observer 
Irish find split, snow in Madison 


Eich two-hits Badgers; MSU Tuesday 
strikeouts while letting only one second hit in the seventh, and Sch­by Stan Urankar 
Badger as far as second base. mitz <that's with a z) lifted a highMadison, Wisc.-Pitching is a Catcher Bob Roemer twice fly that carried the barrier in rightkey to winning any baseball game, for his first homer and the final
gunned down Wisconsin runners and when your mound men start trying to steal second, and Eich margin.tossing two-and four-hitters in pitched himself out of the only "My fast ball really worked well, 
below freezing temperatures, 
· erious trouble in the fifth. After the best this year, in fact," noted you're certainly going to be win­Randy Schawel went down on Eich after the two-hit gem. "I used ning ball games... right? Well, strikes, Eich walked Tom my curve mainly as an off-speed
almost. Popovics and Daryl Fuchs on eight pitch to mix them up."
Notre Dame got superior pit­straight pitches. But the big port­Riddell pitched just as well in the ching performances from Mike sider rbore down and got Dave Olle opener, but Otting, a soph leftyHiddell and Rick Eich Saturday 
to ground into a double play that who 6-3 a year ago, was even a bit afternoon, but still the Irish could wiped out any Badger hopes. better, retiring the first 16 Irish­
only manage a split with Wisconsin The Irish' muffed a to he faced before DPH Gary
chance men in a doubleheader shutout battle. 
break it open early when they left Mayer lined a single to break upSouthpaw Eich came through with the bases loaded in the first before the perfect game in the sixth. 
his best effort of the season by two­nicking starter Tom Hodel for a Otting had fanned seven before a hitting the Badgers, 7-0, after third inning score. Nussbaum sure single saved him in the lastHiddell finished a couple of breaks 
singled,,Mike O'Neill walked, and frame. Tom Hansen beat out anshort as he was bested by lefty Pete Schmidt beat out a bunt to infield grounder for the second hit Andy Otting in a 2-0 Wisconsin load the sacks. Roemer then off Otting, and Schmidt ripped aopening game verdict. 
replied with a sharp grounder that shot toward right that appeared to"We played 1the kind of baseball forced Schmidt at second but be a certain third. But first we need to reach the NCAAs," 
scored Nussbaum. baseman Steve Bennett was rightsaidlcen~er fielder Dick Nussbaum Notre Dame then rocked reliever there to grab the ball and double up after a scheduled Sund::ty af­John Beckman for four runs after Hansen before anyone know whatlernoon twin-bill was postponed two men were out in the fifth. happened.
due to cold weather. "Mike got a O'Neill began the rally with a base Wisconsin captain Tom Shipleyeouple of bad breaks and we just 
hit up the middle, and Schmidt got the first safety off Riddell incouldn't get to Otting for the one or walked on four straight pitches. the third inning, then stole second two clutch hits we needed, but we Roemer coaxed out a base on balls with two out. Bennett chopped ahit well and Rick did a super job to fill the bases for Schmitz, who hard grounder toward Isecond thatwhen we won the other game. It's rapped a two-run shot to right that took a funny bounce and skippedthe kind of win that will really sent O'Neill and Schmidt home. off Schmidt'sshoulder into right,boost our morale for Michigan 
enabling Shipley to race home with 

State." Badger coach Tom Meyer 
an unearned score, the 17th such St•nior Hkk Eich tossed a two-hitter in a 7-0 victory over WisconsinWisconsin didn't figure to get decided he'd seen enough of south­:.1lly for Irish opponents this year. Saturday afternoon as the Irish split a doubleheader with the Badgers.
very strong opposition from Eich, paw Beckman and called on fresh­
the senior Jefthander from Little man righty John Nelson to put out Outfielder !<,red Spytek then ners farther away than that. The double session at Madison Falls, Minn., who was sporting a the fire. Nelson used gasoline to wrapped things up for the Badgers Riddell fanned five while readies the Irish for three more meager 0-2 mark and 8.07 ERA extinguish the Irish charge as with a leadoff homer that sailed walking just one and lowering his twinbills this week. Perennial Big after the Tulsa spring trip. But junior Pat Coleman cleared the over the right field fence in the ERA to a respectable 3.00. Otting Ten power Michigan State comes with Mark Schmitz doing the work sacks with his first varsity hit, a fourth. That was the last time a surrendered three hits in his into Cartier Field for a pair of at the plate (a home run and four two-run safety up the middle. Wisconsin runner was as far as whitewash without issuing a free Tuesday afternoon games before a RBisl, Eich came up with six ·Schmidt Jined to keep right for his second, but Otting kept ND run-base. four-game weekend for coach Jake Kline's squad. ND travels to Bloomington, Ill., for a Saturday 
twinbill with Illinois State, then returns home for a couple with Xavier. 


Cliff Bro'Wn 'good' in opening scri1n1nage 
by Vic Dorr completed four of four passes for one ended when defensive ends Joining Penick (who picked up 70 Sports Editor 54 yards, and ran well when Tom Fine and Jeff Hein sacked' yards and three touchdowns) and It was only a scrimmage, the flushed from the pocket. him for 16 and seven-yard losses on Samuels (30 yards) in the number­Bookstore b-ball first of the season for the Fighting successive plays. one backfield were fullback Wayne 
"Cliff had a good day," said Results games
Irish football team, but quar­"Tom didn't have a good day," Bullock 05 carries, 80 yards) and of first round 
NO's Ara Parseghian after the
terback Cliff Brown reacted as if conceded Parseghian. "He has to freshman Art Best (60 yards, one played at the Bookstore on the defenses he was facing two-hour workout. "He had an work himself back into his timing, touchdown). Saturday and Sunday: belonged to Tulane, and not to excellent day. He didn't and he'll have to re-earn the job. Canucks 21, <Tony Nathe) 16 
Best's score--a 10-yard right-side 

Notre Dame's second and third mishandle! the ball, he read his It's wide-open right now. Tom has Schmucks 21, Hard Hats 13 
sweep--came midway through the

options well, and he led the team UCDH 21, <John Gall) 19
teams. the experience from last year, but workout, and Penick tallied on a
well." Cliff has it from two years ago, and Cardiac Five 21, Nads II 19
Brown, a six-footer who started similar play from the other side on
if we go through all of our Alice's Jammers 21, <E.G.

six games for the Irish during the But if Brown had a good day in the first offense's last possession of McLaughlin) 12
scrimmages like we did this one,

'71 season, had his best day of that the scrimmage, Tom Clements did the day. Sophomore halfback
be changes Checkered Demons 21, Left Brick

campaign against Tulane's Green not. Clements, last year's regular then there'll some Chuck Kelly, working for the
made, obviously." Asbestos 3

Wave, leading ND to a 21-7 signal-caller, led the first-line number-three offense, completed Polish Screaming Eagles 21,offense to one tally while he was on
triumph. Saturday, on Cartier Parseghian did try one offensive the scoring with a one-yard dive Slaughterhouse Five 14
Field, the junior QB turned in a the field, but had difficulties change yesterday. He shifted against the third-line "D." 
HA 's et. al. 21, Gay Quintet 18 similar showing. moving against the number-two versatile Dave Casper from tackle Brazil Nuts 21, Lestragonians II 17
He lead the number-one offense defense. Two Clements-led drives to tight end, and moved Steve Despite the five touchdowns, the Blond Bombers 21, Sons ofscrimmage belonged to the
to three of its four touchdowns ended in exchange fumbles, and Neece into the vacant tackle slot. Basketball 8
defensive teams. The number-one 
Casper was moved to the end 
City Bounds 21, Gamecokcs 16"D" was not scored upon, and the
position because of injuries to 
<Tom Seaman) 21, <Phil Reilley)second and third teams looked
sophomores Steve Quehl and Ed 
10
sharper than their offensive
Bauer, and his early-spring per­
<Paul Cody> 21, Hogan's Heroes 11counterparts. But none of that
formances may make it difficult 
Note: Where team names havesurprised Parseghian. 
for either of the two sophs to win 
not been supplied. the team cap­
the job back. Casper, NO's third "I'd say the defense is definitely name has included
tain's been co-captain, was Brown's favorite ahead," said the Irish coach, "but instead. 
target in Saturday's session, we put no restrictions on what they Winners of these games will grabbing three passes for 40 yards. could use today. They used more 
compete this Wedne~day and 
coverages and more alignments,
''I'd sav it's more than an ex­Thursday afternoons in second­
and that put a burden on our of­
periment 'at this point," admitted round games at the Bookstore.
fensive teams, who had never
Parseghian. "With Quehl and 
looked at some of this before. We
Bauer out, we have no experience 
could have ·had an offem=ive Blue IJne Club
at !i~ht end. We already know that 
scrimmage, and limited the
Da·· can play tackle, and I'd say 
defense to only one type of
thl're is a very strong possibility arranges dinner
~overage, but we didn't. want to dothat he could stay at tight end." 
that. lt was Casper who combined The Blue Line Club, a group
"By the end of practice," He
with Brown to set up the first backing the Fighting Irish hockey
continued, "wehopethat the offense 
touchdown of the aft<>moon. team. has announced that a hockey
has progressed and can read all of 
Working from the 46-yard line of awards banquet will be held this
the different coverages. But this is
the defensive <gold) team, Brown coming Saturday, April 14, at the
the way to learn, and it's all part of
hit his tight end for 19 yards to the North Dining Hall.
the teaching process that goes on
27, and the TD came three plays The lime of the ba'lquet has beer 
every spring."
later, when tailback Eric Penick set for 8:30pm, and/a Blue Line burned through the left side for 22 The scrimmage was marred by spokesman said that tickets would 

~­
I yards. AI Samuels, who also saw an injury to junior defensive end be available at the door for $2.30. time in the number-one backfield, Tom Devine, who has undergone The dinner will include pizza, scored on the two-point conversion knee surgery on two previous beer, and sandwiches, and will be 
try. occasions. Devine fell heavily on followed by a program recognizing 
Clements took the first-line "0" his left knee midway through the the ND icers, the number-two to a touchdown during its next . workout, and had to be carried finishers in the WCHA this past possession. The drive covered 64 from the field. Preliminary X-rays season. 
, yards, and the big plays came indicated strained ligaments, and Among the awards presented 
· from Penick, who scooted 15 yards D<>vine will be sidelined for at least will be Best Defenseman, Team with a delay pass, and Clements, a week. Scoring Leader, and a special who earned 18 yards on a broken The Irish will hold their next tribute to coach Charles "Lefty" play. Tne touchdown --on an 11-filmed scrimmage session on Smith, who has already been :~ard sweep left--aiso bel•mged to W<>dnesday afternoon, at Carti('r ,tam<>d as this season's WCHA Penick. ... Field. roa<.:h of the Year. 


o·rhack ('lirr Hrown completed four passes for 54 ~'ards and ac­,l '·•r three·;, >l unit touchdown, in Saturd;;.y'. Sl'' :,••rna~~;.,. 









