~-----·---~-----------~~ --~-~-----------------.... 
OD The lnilde 
Law School renovation ... page 2 Effect of Party Guidelines 
.•. page 6 




serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VIII, No. 28 Monday, October 15, 1973. 
Discusses University programs 

Student Affairs Committee meets 
by David Kaminski Staff Reporter 
The Student Mfairs Committee of the Notre Dame Board of Trustees met in a day-long session Friday at the Center for Continuing Education to review the programs of the university's Student Affairs staff and student government. 
Liquor Guidelines 
The trustees had their first full look at the new alcohol rules on campus, recently drawn up by the SLC and approved by Fr. Hesburgh. 
Mr. William K McGowan, Jr., trustee, and president of the Notre Dame National Alumni Association, approved of the alcohol policy. The new policy officially states that the University accepts the use of alcohol on campus. 
"Mr. Faceenda, a lawyer, recommended the plan. I have confidence that he has analized the stance the University has taken and has made his recommendation based on this," McGowan said. 
Dr. Thorn as Carney, chairman of the Trustees' Student Affairs Committee, analyzed the responsibility that the University is taking in the new alcohol policy : 

"The real problem here that the students may not realize is that the University is taking a efforts such as baby sitting; and would help to Dame's rate of acceptance confirmation. 
chance. They are saying that they recognize foster a sense of community among graduate :·But,•: said McGowan, "I am encouraged by what's going on and they are trying to help the 
students. this. It IS a complement to the 'residentiality of students. 
A sense of community was also one of the the university that students desire to live on "They are saying that they know drinking is reasons Lavage cited in the request for a campus. It is also encouraging to know that 
going on and they are saying that they think it's graduate student social center. "The only place more students are choosing to come to Notre good," Carney said. that might be availalbe to us is LaFortune, and Dame than we expect. we have always been under the impression that Graduate Students' Needs LaFortune was strictly reserved for the un­LaFortune Renvoation dergraduates," Lavage said. Mr. William Lavage, president of the Lavage said he was surprised by what he The LaFortune Renovation Committee Graduate Student Union, who feels that grad called a "vicious" reaction by the Board, reported to the trustees on progFess of plans for students at Notre Dame are "at best, second especially the administrators. However, Fr. therenovationof the student center. 
class students," asked the trustees to consider 

James Flanigan, Associate Vice President of Work on the romodeling of the downstairs area increased insurance protection for the families Student Mfairs, did promise to help the GSU in of LaFortune, making it into a pub, is scheduled of married grad students, additional grad developing an insurance program for the to begin early in the second semester. student housing on campus, a social center for graduate students. Renovation of the Huddle area is planned for this 
graduate students, and a different policy on coming summer. athletic tickets for married grad students. Overcrowded Housing Finally, the trus.tees seemed impressed by the 
Lavage said after the meeting, "I think this new Student Mfarrs staff and their programs.was a consciousness raising session with both the 
The Trustees also discussed the problem of Carney said, "The new Student Mfairs staff is trustees and the administration, to make them overcrowding of on-campus residences. One of coming close to objectives we have held for aware of some of the concerns of the graduate 
the causes of the freshman overcrowding of the years now. They have a centralized staff that is students." past few· years is the fact that more accepted sympathetic to the students. They are staying in Lavage said that many married graduate students finally choose to come to Notre Dame communicaton with the students when new 
students wouldbe interested in more on-campus than the national average for other schools. policy is being formulated. 
housing if it were available. He said that on­Mr. McGowan of the trustees said the Ad­"We have moved from an adversary to a 
campus housing would be: more economical; missions office has worked with the statistics of cooperative relatonship between the students 
more convenient, especially on cooperative the national average and has to adjust Notre and the administration," Carney concluded. 

The Student Affairs Committee of the Board of Trustees meeting Friday at the Continuing Center for Education. (Staff photo by Ann Barrows) 
Added to SMC Board of Regents agenda 
Visitation policyto bediscussed 
by Jane Cannon Mary Ellen Stumpf, student Second semester freshmaen will 
Staff Reporter representative on the Board, need written permission from their 
summed up the meeting: "Even parents in order to stay out past 
though there was a 12·12 vote and curfew. 
A revised male visitation policy therefore the proposal was not Dr. Edward Henry, St. Mary's 
proposed at St. Mary's remains untabled, I was satisfied with the President, delivered an excellent 
tabled by the Board of Regents. honest discussion that spon­report on the historical and 
The Board met on Saturday, Oc­taneously followed the vote." educational background of St. 
tober 13 and voted on whether or "I think we have to take into Mary's for the new members. 
not to untable the proposal. The consideration the new members, Included in his report was tehe 
vote ended in a 12-12 tie, not because they were quite C<?n­history of the unmerger and the 
meeting the required two-third's cerned about being informed about consequences that followed. Henry 
majority needed to untable an . the entire picture," Stumpf con­stressed the planning process and 
issue. tinued.The issue will be brought up policies that he has employed since 
Contrary to the Parlimentary again at the next Board of the unmerger to get the college 
procedure practiced by the Regents meeting in February, back on its feet. 
Board, there was a two and one 1974. Sister. Katherine Francis Ford, 
half hour deliberation on the The question of a no-hours policy Chairman of the Board of Regents, 
subject of male visitation. This for second semester freshmen was and Dr. Henry , are expected to 
discussion was primarily for the discussed. It was decided that the release a statement of confidential 
benefit of the 12 new board policy would remain the same as it matters discussed at the meeting, 
members. has been for the past few years. in the near future. 
Founders Day at Saint Mary's . .. see page 2 


---------------------~--------~--~---­
l the. observer, Monda.y. Octal!!! 1$, ·1.97.3 . 
I. I I I. 
'WDrld 
brief• 

. .OAKLAND-The New York Mets evened the World Series at 1 game each beating the Oakland A's, lG-7 in the longest World Series game ever played--4 hours, 13 minutes, and 12 innings. Willie Mays drove home the go ahead run the 12th and 3 more scored on errors. 
WASHINGTON-The Washington Post says the Senate Watergate Committee is looking into President Nixon's personal finances. The newspaper quotes informed persons as saying key part of the probe is a proported $100,000 contribution billionaire Howard Hughes made to Nixon's friend, Charles "Bebe" Rebozo. 
SALT LAKE CITY -Vice President-designate, Gerald Ford, says the 
U.S. is fulfilling its promised to help Israel in it's war with the Arabs. However, he told newsmen aboard a plane on route to Salt Lake City that he hopes for a cease fire soon so that diplomatic negotiations can be opened. 
TEL AVIV-Israel says Egypt has massed almost it's entire army on a 5 mile wide, 102 mile long side on the east bank of the Suez Canal. As dawn breaks on the lOth day of the new Middle East war, Israeli forces are prepared for fresh assaults against their defense lines on the Sinai Peninsula. 
Defense Minister Moshe Dayan said in a nationwide broadcast yesterday, "A harsh war.. .long in days,...and heavy bloodhsed." 
an campus tallay 
10 am-6 pm, smc eledion,regina hall v.p., regina hall lobby. 
7 pm, rosary, grotto. 7, 10 pm, movie, "julius caesar," washington hall, adminiission free' 7:30pm, prose and poetry reading, by smc.nd students, stafpeJton
lounge, lemans hall smc. 

Lawschool renovation completed 
by Jane Thornton Staff Reporter 

Recently completed expansion and renovation of the Notre Dame Law School has Provided a new library, audio visual facilities and a doubling of usable space. The University's celebration of the additions, set for November 2' will include Mass, dinner and open house. 
Construction on the $1.5 million project began in fall, 1973. Ar­chitects were Elerbe Architects­Engineers-Planners of St. Paul, of any law school in the nation. Minnesota. Associate Dean David Link, who 
The building was expanded by serves as chairman of the moving the east wall 25 feet. American Bar Association's Law Bricks were disassembled piece­and Technology Committee, was by-piece, pyramid-style, labeled instrumental in planning the audio and reassembled at the new site. visual additions. As video tape has 
Construction workers excavated been ruled admissible evidence at slightly below basement level to trial, and its use has been rapidly provide space for three levels of increasing in the legal profession, wood stacks between the lowest teaching the necessary skills is a level and the floor ceiling. prime concern of the law school. 
According to administrator, Audio visual equipment is used to Marianne Hopkins, the audio tape trials, depositions, expert visual system is the most modern witness' testimony, the scene of 




Founders Dayheldat SMC 
by Peggy Fredricks Staff Reporter 
Commemorating Saint Mary's College 129th year, the annual Founders Day Celebration was held Sunday, October 14 in Stapleton Lounge. Those attending were requested to wear such clothes as granny dresses and knickers. 

The program opened at 6:30p.m. with the annual Founder's Day Mass. The main celebrant was Rev. Martin McCormick o.p. He was assited by Father Jacob Smith C.S.C., chaplain for the sisters of the Holy Cross at St. Mary's College. Father Sorin's Chalice and a missal stand from the college archives were used for the mass. Dr. Henry read theEpistle and Sister Alma Peter, coordinator of off-campous programs, offered · one of the prayers. The liturgy .said at the mass was an original 

liturgy written by Father McCormick which relates to the founding of the college. 
Songs for the mass were Bells of St. Mary's, Fill My Cup, the Ave Maria by Back-Founod, Peace I Leave With You, and the Battle Hymn of the Republic. The music was played on both piano and guitar by the girls who have been singing at St. Mary's masses this year. 
Following the mass at 7:30p.m., old fashioned cider and donuts were served. A historical exhibit of photos and pictures relating to the college were displayed. 
The Founder's Day Celebration was primarily organized by the Campus Ministry, the Alumni Association, and the Public 

l f 
Relations and Development Office. 
Father McCormick, a member of the Campus Ministry, discussed a quote by Ghandi which 

f The Observer is publiShed dailyI 
during the college semester except 

' 
vacations by the stuaents of the

I 
University of Notre Dame and St.

I 
Mary's College. Subscriptionsf 
may be purchased for S8 per I 
semester ($14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. Second class

t 
postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
~--............ ·-· 

t 
says "to a man with an empty itself. Its mention in the first stomach, food is God." McCor­volume of the Saint Mary's mick's reply was "to a student Chimes, in 1892 suggests that it 
without a book or teacher, school is was an old tradition. 
God." To further explain this he St. Mary's college is the oldest 
added, "In order for a young Chartered Catholic women's 
person to perfect herself, she needs college in America. It was 
truth and love. St. Mary's was chartered in 1855. The Alumni 
founded to provide these. To that Association at St. Mary's was the 
extent ., school is God." first among Catholic women's 
The Founder's Day observance colleges and the seventh among all 
may well be as olg a~e school . women's colleges in America. 

School'house Too 
In the Brewery 
100 Center Complex Mishawaka, Ind. Phone -259-8181 

The midwest's most complete needlepoint shop 
SPECIAL: 10 percent discount upon presentation of student I D HOURS: MONDAY-SATURDAY, 10am-9pm SUN Y, 12 m-6 m 

.. ----.. __ ........ ------.... ~----·-----·~~ 
an accident, etc. 
and then bless the building. Tours Each classroom now contains a will be conducted by law students 
TV monitor. Films instruct and faculty members. students on legal counselling, 
Provost James T. Burtchaell will 
analysis of factual situations and emcee the dinner in the Kresge
other topics. Law student mock Law Library. Proffessors Link court trials and depositions are 
and Edward Murphy of the Law presented for critique. 
School, Law School Dean Thomas 
Another unique feature of the Schaffer, President of the Student library is the Civil Rights Reading Bar Association Thomas McKenna room. It contains University and Chairman of the Board of the President Fr. Theodore Kresge Foundation will participate 
Hesburgh 's collection of Civil in the program.Rights Committee documents, the Kresge, after whom the new law only complete set in existance. It library was named, donated will be microfilmed and available $750,000 towards the construction for student research within two 
and renovation of the law school 
years. 
building.

Flexibility is the key word in the Members of the respectiverenovation. Remodelling provided advisory councils of the colleges of for a reading room, four law,science and engineering, law professional library staff offices, a faculty members, law student 
library workroom, six faculty lee. !ers university officers, deans offices and a faculty lounge, a forrner deans and benefactors and classroom, student lounge and bar, 'officers of the ND Law Association and several student conference are invited to the Mass, Blessing rooms. and Dinner. Tours are open to all. 
All classrooms and the student lounge are multipurpose. Hopkins 
planning a "<'tkl i ng'! 

explained, "Since we don't have 
('all Tlw 234-5822

much space we do like trailers and make use of every little nook and 
\\(•dding Photographer

cranny." 
234~5822 MICHAEL LONIER Hesburgh will celebrate Mass at 

~\~ ~~~ 

4: p.m. in the Kresge Law Library 


-----------------------------------------~~-, 
~ ' , • \ # I • . '• •, '.. 

MOnday·, od6iM!; .1s~ '197l' .. -~----tHe <>'bse..--ver 3 

This Wednesday night 
Brubeck and sons set to jazz up' Elkhart 
by Fred Graver respected baritone sax player Orchestra. Within the Brubeck Gerry Mulligan. Proof of their Quartet, he works perfectly within 
Staff Reporter 

mutual repsct for each other is the difficult rhythm and time 'Fhe Dave Brubeck Quartet , 
seen in Gerry's disdain for most experiments that are presented. groups which rely on piano. Jack Six, once a composition
featuring Gerry Mulligan will During his early years in San major at the Julliard School ofperform Wednesday night, Oct. 17, 
at the Elco Theatre in Elkhart, performer elected to Playboy crowd on to the intensity and inner Francisco, he was proud of the fact ,Music, is not only known for his Indiana, at 8 p.m. Added to the bill Magazine's "Hall of Fame". electricity of his music. This was that he had organized a .talents in the bass area, but for his will be appearance of the of this popularity not because he was "playing down progressive jazz group without the talents in the area of arranging
the All has inclusion of a piano player. But, and composing. He has writtensecond genration of Brubeck, his prompted George Wein, producer to the audience." Far from it, he 
sons Darius, Chris and Dan. was playing at his best, with no when you hear Brubeck and film scores, television commercials 
of the Newport Jazz Festival, to holds barred, and it was the ex­Mulligan jamming on stage, it and ·orchestrations.for numerous Dave Brubeck, one of the say of Brubeck, "when l need seems that from the beginning bands arid vocalists. The bass is
foremost jazz pianists of our time, someone to indroduce jazz to an cellence of his music that did the is a prime example of the musician audience that is unfamiliar with trick. A whole new crowd of jazz they had been trained to ac-one of the fundamental in­who never stops learning and the form, there is no one I would freaks was born that night, and it company each other.. , struments in jazz, but Jack Six changing. Hs constant drive to rather send than Dave Brubeck." wasn't the first time Brubeck had Two of the most repsected uses the instrument in ways un­
incorporate the best elements of Nothing could be more true. played nursemaid like that. sidemen on the jazz scene today conceived of just a few years ago. contemporary jazz into his music This simmer Brubeck played The perfect complement for are Alan Dawson, percussionist He sparkles within the Quartet, puts him first in many fields. He before a mixed audience of jazz Brubeck's virtuosity is found in his and Jack Six, bassist. Dawson complimenting Alan Dawson as has recorded the first jazz single to afficiariado's and jazz newcomers present Quartet. To begin with, must be included in the list of Mulligan compliments Brubeck. sell one million copies, was the at Chicago's Ravinia Festival. filling the role of the Saxophone phenomnenal drummers along The concert on Wednesday night first jazzman to grace the cover of Before the middle of the player, something Brubeck rarely with people like Tony Williams and will most certainly be one of the Time magazine, and the first jazz first set he had turned the entire goes without, is the 
hi~hlv Billy Cobham of the M~havishnu (continued on page 7). 
~ 
1 
I 
Dave Brubeck will appear with his quartet in Elkhart Wednesday night. His sons are also featured. 
1 Dial Soap FOR MEN 1 Lady Trac II Razor FOR WOMEN 2 Excedrin 2 Lemon-Up Shampoo Features round-trip jet to 
3 Active Tooth Polish 3 Active Tooth Polish Luxembourg, RT bus to Kitz­
4 Flair Pen 4 Jean Nate


SEMI SEMI
buhel, 2 meals daily, double 
5 Dep for Men Shampoo 5 Woolite 
room in chalet, Dec. 14 and 
6 Breath Pleasers 6 Midol
weekly in Jan. Add $10 Feb. 
7 Sea & Ski Lipsaver 7 Contac Cold Capsules

FREE! FREE!
and March. Also, 1-week ski 
8 Contac Cold Capsules 8 Breath Pleasers weeks to Kitzbuhel or Chamo­
tours to Chamonix and 2 
. t
9 Trac II Razor 9 Aqua Fresh 
nix. Lowest-cost ski tours to 
1 0 Foamy Shave Cream 1 0 At Least One Bonus Product
Europe of any scheduled air­
11 Tame Balsam & Body Instant Conditioner
line. 
12 Playtex Deodorant Tampons
$250 Car or Rail Tour* 
One week, per person, double, features round-trip jet from New York to Luxembourg and 
AT LEAST 10 PRODUCTS 
car with unlimited mileage­or $260* unlimited rail travel in 13 European countries for singles. Add $g8 from Chica­

FOR YOU THAT WILL 
go. Offered Nov. thru March. SEE YOUR TRAVEL AGENT 
All prices subject to change. 
SAVE YOU MONEY!
r-------------,
To: ICELANDIC AIRLINES (212) 757-8585 630 Fifth Ave., N.Y.TN.Y. 10020 Outside N.Y. State: oil Free (800) 221-9760 



HAIIDYFOR TRAVEL 
Send folder CN on tours to Europe from N.Y. D. from Chicago D, 
only 99-t

from Miami/ Nassau D. Name, _________ 
Street _________ 
City ___ 

THE HAMMES 
State, _____ZiP'--­
My Travel Agent is----­

NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
ICElANDIC 
J 





THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Art Ferranti Executive Editor 
Lee Gentine Business Manager 
Jerry Lutkus Editor-In-Chief  Dan Barrett Executive Editor  
NEWS:  283-1715  
EDITORIALS:  283-8661  John Kloos  
BUSINESS:  283-7471  Advertising Manager  

Monday, October 15, 1973 

Fram the editar!ls deSK: 

For What It's Worth 
The thought refuses to escape me tonight that something is really wrong at Notre Dame. A widespread sense of paranoia exists in many parts of the campus. Paranoia is the result of fear and fear comes from a lack of knowledge. Right now the "Christian community" of Notre Dame has been blacked out of knowledge on the activities of the office of the Dean of Students and understandably the result is paranoia. 
When there is a void of knowledge, rumors spring up to fill the void and it is the rumors that often create a great deal of the fear and the resultant paranoia. And Notre Dame is being deluged with rumors today. 
The blame for the rumors must ultimately fall on the office of John Macheca. The near-total news blackout that he has extended across the activities of his office make it nearly impossible for The Observer and other campus media to let the students in on what is going on. The other portion of blame rests with the students involved in the actions of the Dean's office. They have refused outright to talk about their situations. Thus, a news blackout is created. The source will not reveal anything. The student "vic­tims" won't talk, presumably out of fear, and the rectors likewise refuse comment. So, the void is created in which rumors flourish. 
With no one talking, it is then virtually impossible for The Observer to reveal exactly what is going on. And in the long run, it is the students that are getting hurt. Their basic right to know is being infringed upon. 
So, the next question is why doesn't The Observer print the rumors. And the answer follows logically, because that is irresponsible journalism. Rumor­printing journals smack of rags and cheap exposes and hopefully The Ob­server is above that. 
In an attempt to get around that, I have taken it upon myself to try to dispel or confirm some of the rumors that have been floating around. Though it is a touch irresponsible in passing up total con­firmation from the persons involved, it is necessary in the best interests of the students. 
Truth: The University has declared war on the pusher. It is the goal of the Administration to remove the pusher from the campus. 

f 
Truth: In the middle of last week, there was at least one drug raid in a Notre Dame hall. What was confiscated, who was involved, who called the raid and

r 
what the disciplinary status of the students involved is still unknown. The failure of the Dean of Students office, the Security Dept. and the students involved to elaborate about it leaves all this in­formation unconfirmed. However, a comment by Security Director Arthur Pears seemed to indicate that there was not one, but two raids on Tuesday at 10 

a.m. and 3 p.m. The methods used in the raids are also still unconfirmed. 
Rumor: Student phones are being wiretapped. Both Macheca and University President Theodore Hesburgh have given their personal guarantees that no phones are being wiretapped despite widespread rumors to the con­trary. 
Unconfirmed: The rumor that is spreadil}g that two students have been expelled by the University is as of yet still unconfirmed. 
Truth: A line of students have been brought into the Dean of Students office to discuss their drug habits and suppliers so far this year. 
The Observer pledges to the students that we will work untiringly over the next week to reveal as much of the story as we possibly can. However, we will not stoop to irresponsible journalism to do it. When we do report the story, we will carry all of it and not only fragmented hearsay. 
The weight of responsibility lies in two other areas beyond The Observer. First, it rests with the Dean of Students office. John Macheca has granted an interview for Tuesday and he must disclose what his office's intentions are and what has gone on thus far. It is the students' ab­solute and inherent right to know. In the public circle, police records and court results are matters of public record. At Notre Dame, the actions of security and the results of disciplinary proceedings are cloaked in secrecy. That must stop. We do not intend to damage the reputation of any student and we will not. But every student has a right to know what is going on, especially in a situation like this, where the void of knowledge has created a fear touching nearly every student. 
Finally, responsibility rests with the 
student government. Throughout these 
proceedings, they have remained silent, 
neither pushing for the truth nor letting 
the students know how they stand on the 
controversy. They must use the power 
that they hold to protect the rights of 
every student at Notre Dame. 

Secrecy in proceedings, as well as the pushing of drugs, is ugly and vulgar. Equally vulgar are veiled threats and coercion, even if they are used in at­tempting to find the truth and in the riqhting of evils. 
It's time to get the pushers out of Notre Dame because they are dirt and a menace ro the rest of the people who live here. But in the process, we cannot let the atmosphere and spirit of Notre Dame be defiled by secrecy, coercion, fear and paranoia. 
Last Paint One Who Voted For Spiro 
j.napier 
"He was lying. For the last two months he's been lying." Everyone 

For two months, the majority af Americans gave the Vice-President of the United States the benefit of thedoubtand maintained the "in­nocePt until proven guilty" ethic. But last Wednesday, the people of Amenca finally learned what they should have known in 1967. The man who ascended to the Vice-Presidency and who possessed even higher aspirations, was--very bluntly--a criminal. 
Agnew's "alleged" bribe-taking, extortion and admitted tax evasion do not alone condemn him to rank among the most infamous in American political history. But rather, infamy lies in his treacherous maneuvers and malicious accusations of the past two months. In his struggle to escape indictmer.t, Agnew recklessly lashed at the Justice Department's integrity, claiming he was the "big one" set up to redeem the Justice Department's mishandling of Watergate. He accused the Attorney General's office, and Henry Peterson in par­ticular. of underhandedly attempting to obtain his conviction in the press by leaking damning evidence to Agnew-phobic reporters. 
Despite these accusations, the prosecuter's pressure failed to subside. Accordingly, Agnew searched for other weapons to combat his antagonists. Typically, Agnew moved offensively and on two fronts. On the first front, he sought to twist the Vice-Presidency into a refuge for his political dishonesty by claiming a sitting Vice-President is immune from indictment because of the Vice-Presidency's proximity to the Presidency. Agnew intended to maintain his office and deny his guilt for as long as possible, though maintenance of this position for long would undoubtedly cause an internecine im­peachment battle to erupt in Congress. 
On the second front, Agnew besieged a gentle ambiguity in American values concerning the partial contradiction between freedom of the press and the right of every man to a fair trial. By calling attention to Justice Department leaks turning up on front pages, Agnew endeavored to turn his case away from a trial of a man's guilt to a trial of a nation's values. Agnew attempted to side-step his guilt and focus on a peripheral issue thereby avoiding a direct con­frontation with hfs criminal activites. 
By smearing his opponents, abusing the privileges of his office as well as the trust of the electorate, Spiro Agnew endeavored to hide his marred past. Only when impeachment, indictment and ultimate conviction seemed a certainty did the former Vice President realize even if he used his office to the Machivaellian ultimate, the situation of last week dictated a compromise. 
Attorney General Richardson recommended leniency in the sentencing of Agnew because of the Vice-President's supposed cooperation in avoiding the agonizingly tortuous experience of an impeachment and trial of a Vice-President. Richardson may just as well have admitted Agnew was like a gambler who still had a revolver in his lap and was willing to pull if provoked. W. Clement Stone had established a defense fund on Agnew's behalf. Numerous con­servative loyalists were still solidly behind him, as demonstrated by Agnew's September 29th speech before the National Convention of Republican Women. If the Justice Department did not offer a reasonable compromise, Agnew knew he possessed the potentiality to throw the nation into chaos. Agnewhad put his welfare before that of the general public before and little indicated he was willing to alter his values. Richardson recognized Agne'!V's hand and realized a compromise was needed. 
Political disillusionment has reached a cresendo. Generalizations concerning the mud inpolitics have become ubiquitous. More than ever, people now realize the low levels to which politicians may fall while climbing to the high positions of public esteem and confidence. 
The revelations of morally indegent officials have indicated dishonesty all too often steps ahead of honesty in the political jungle. 
If there is any hope, however, one may find it'in the eventual dif­ficulty of dishonest men to stay on top forever. As long as there are honest men who possess access to an impartial judicial system, a free press and a viable opposition party, immoral Spiro-hooligans will find themselves at a relative disadvantage in the end to the white-hatted Goldwaters, McGoverru; and Ervins-of the present and future. No society will ever become Spiro-free, but SO<!iety can make long distance political treking awfully rugged for those who chose the short-sighted passageway of dishonesty. 
Perhaps the examples of the convictions of political criminals and the present general house cleaning ethic will keep America from the wiles of another administration of Harding vintage. Hopefully, the honesty which presently prevails will enable future generations to forestall the next cycle of dishonesty. 
In hindsight, Massachusetts was right. 
the observer 

Issue Staff 
Night Editor: Bill Brink 
Managing Editor: Joe Abell

Assistant Night Editor: Dan 
News Editor: Anthony Abowd

Sanchez 
Editorial Editor: Butch Ward

Layout: Marlene Zloza 
Wire Editor: Tom Drape

Day Editor: Mary Janca 
Features Editor: Kathy Schwille

Copy Editor: Rick Thues 
Compugraphic Operator: Mike 
Goetz 
Raymond

Associate Editor: Rod Bray

.. . . ~ ' I • I. • t ·--Jerry Lutkus .. JiQwar.d. Halle. 1 • ·• . . • , • Night Controller: Joe Abell 



~-------­
Monday, October 15, 1973 the observer 
what do the words i've been singing mean? 
fr. bill toohey 


charlie brown and doctor seuss 
The movie Jesus Christ Superstar, is this year's Love 'story. I mean by this that the critics have been having a field-day (from Playboy to Malcolm Boyd). 
We need not do much of a re-run here. It's been fairly well said: The movie was blatantly anti-Semitic, with its equation of Jewishness with villainy. We are offered a self-indulgent, confused Jesus-a blue-eyed , blond, Anglo-8axon who ac~ like a dropout from a beach-blanket flick (we expect Annette Funicello to show up at any minute); who exhibits a very questionable white missionary paternalism toward black Judas· who like a temperamental show-biz star s~disti~ally and mercilessly (this is the Ma~ for Others?) sends Judas off to finish his work of betrayal.
But Superstar is a mixed bag: it does have its moments. There is some real musical excitement in the rock rhythm and expression, and some gifted acting, especially Carl Anderson as Judas. The death of Judas, the trial and Crucifixion were powerful. Nor can I side with those 
"Jeremy's parents, good Jews that they are, refused to see their son play the role of Jesus until well into 
the tour." 
critics who knocked the opera-film for excluding the Resurrection. The very last words have Jesus saying: "Father, into your hands I commend my spirit." This was "passover" -a death that meant entrance into glory, total union with the Father -and that is Re surrection ! 
The movie pulls a switch on the opera at the "I must admit to a kind of juvenile ex­very end. The troupe of young actors are citement upon first getting to know these shown packing up and leaving, somewhat artists, as well as an envy of their ability o;;haken by the experience. All are there but through song and dance to convey the ex-
Little Bi'd Screen 



art ferranti 

Since The Observer's last Issue before the break is Wednesday and since it will not resume until the following Wednesday, I am going to try to encompass the next two weeks in today's column. I just hope I do not forget anything. To insure that Ido not, I shall review the films and specials in the order of their appearance. 
Tonight last year's Super Bowl champs, the Miami Dolphins, take on the Cleveland Browns on the ABC. 'Monday Night Foot­ball" presentation. On CBS, there are two cartoon shows for the kiddies and those who still want to be kiddies. "You're Not Elected, Charlie Brown" is a new "Peanuts" special at 8:00 and "Dr. Seuss On The Loose" airs at 8:30. On NBC 06), Doris Day and Brian Keith get married in With Six, You Get Eggroll. It is another cutesy film whose plot revolves around Day's having three brats and Keith's having one daughter at the time of their marriage. Of course, they are both widowed. Skip this repeat. 
Tomorrow Kim Novak and Tony Curtis both make their made-for-TV debuts in Third Girl From the Left. Miss Novakplays an aging chorus girl and Curtis her long suffermg lover. Catch is that she is falling for Michael Brandon, a much younger fellow. It will be telecast on the "ABC Movie of the Week". The CBS movie tomorrow presents the hilarious comedy, Viva, Max! with Peter Ustinov as Gen. Mximillian Rodrigues De Santos, a nut who decides to retake the Alamo. John Astin is his equally crazy sergeant with Jonathon Winters a gung-ho general out to get the Alamo back. Keenan Wynn, Harry Morgan, and Kenneth Mars join Winters while Alice Ghostley and Pamela Tiffin play hostages. Incidentally, the crew had to build a whole new Alamo since the Texas government would not allow filming in the monument. It is a great film in the vein of The Russians Are Coming, etc. NBC telecasts the World Series at 7:00. 
Wednesday Peter Boyle (Joe, Steelyard Blues> plays The Man Who Could Talk to Kids, a made-for-TV. This ABC film has Boyle as a social worker attempting to help Scott Jacoby (That Certain Summer). An Ted Neeley, who played Jesus. Then the camera pans to a hillside and a lone shepherd with his flock. Producer-director Norman Jewison seems to imply that Neeley has been so deeply affected by the experience that he will stay in the judean territory and begin a new and different life. 
The point seeems to be: no one takes part in the production of the life of Jesus without the prospect of it becoming much more than a role played with impersonal, aesthetic distance. I talked with Fr. Tom Stella about this to see if the thesis had been borne out in his contacts with the cast of Godspell. 
Those of you who were at school last year may recall when the travelling company of Godspell sang at the 12:15 Sunday mass in Salcred Heart church. In the intervening· weeks, we (Tom especially) got to know several members of the cast rather well. This summer Tom was working as a hospital chaplain in Detroit during the month this same cast played the Motor City. J.Iere are some of his recollections. 
"I never thought of myself as a 'groupie' before, but that's what I was labeled by the members of the New York Touring Com­pany of the musical, Godspell. Having seen their performance eight times in five cities, I came to know and even feel a part of this unique group of talented people." 
Oral Roberts show follows on 28. On NBC the World Series continues at 7:00. 
Thursday ABC looks at coal mining in "West Virginia -Life, Liberty and the Pursuit of Coal". The report is touted to be a documented attack on the industry. Joy in the Morning features Richard Chamberlain and Yvette Mimieux in a soaper set in an early 1900's college town. Arthur Kennedy plays the mean father who turns out to be a nice guy by the last reel. It is light and airy, though, so it may break up any doldrums from having to stay here over the break. It airs on CBS. If a fifth game of the series is necessary, NBC will telecast it at 7:00. 
Friday features an hour long "Adam's Rib" which was based on the movie of the same name. This particular episode is a remake of that 
movie. Ken Howard has the Spencer Tracy role while Blythe Danner assumes the character Kstharine Hepburn created. The ABC show airs at eight. "The Shape of Things" is the title of a women's lib comedy (a bit of redundancy there) special featuring Lee Grant, Jack Klugman, Phyllis Diller, Wilt Chamberlain, Valerie Harper, Lynn Redgrace, Brenda Vaccaro, and Bobby Riggs. With five women against three guys, the odds are somewhat stacked. It too airs at eight on 22 but watch "Adam's Rib" for better comedy. '"CBS Reports" follows at nine with an in-depth probe of corporations. NBC resumes its normal programming. 
Saturday Lee Majors stars in "The ABC Suspense Movie" The Six Million Dollar Man. This is not a repeat but the new once­a-month series. The NBC film is The Great Nort.hfield Minnesota Raid, another story of the James gang and the Daltons. This one has Jesse played as a fanatic by Robert Dval (The Godfather, THX 1138, Badge 373) and the eldest Dalton portrayed as a ruthless, sneering killer by Cliff Robertson (PT 109, Charly). It is a "realistic" (as opposed to "John Ford", for example) Western which unfortunately relied too heavily on violence for violence's sake. Burt Lancaster stars in the channel 16 late movie The Birdman of Alcatraz, the true story of convict Robert Stroud who became citement of the gospel message in a way that I only feebly approach through my own life and preaching." 

"It wasn't long before the glare of the stage-lights and the smell of grease-paint 
faded, and those actors became real people to me; people who in their toneliness, , ambition, and quest for happiness are much like you and me." 
saving the cast 
"Have you been washing in the blood?' Are you saved?' These were typical 1 questions fundamentalists asked the cast during the serving of wine at the in-' termission of the show. And strange questions they were for this mostly Jewish group, but questions which nonetheless 
provoked inquiry in them, as well as an awareness that what for them was a script was for others a totally absorbing way of life." 
"What do the words I've been saying and singing mean?" was the way·~usan plifit to me. She played the role of the buxom temptress who reprimanded Jesus when he said we should cut off and cast away that part of the body which is a source of sin. Her comment: 'it's not nice to fool with mother nature!' Susan sang 'Turn Back,' reciting the lines while the rest of the cast, in pan­tomine, acted out the parable of the Good Samaritan. She was eager to listen as I answered her questions about the story, and was thankful that she now understood the lines she said. But I felt a sense of puz­zlement in her and in some of the others, even though they came to know the teachings of Jesus more clearly. 
" 'Very Christian' was the way Jeremy <who played Jesus) described the 12:15 mass here at N.D., when the cast sang at it 
an expert on birds. The film concentrates on Stroud's personality and motivation. John Frankenheimer directed his excellent film which co-stars Karl Malden. (Good luck to all LSAT examinees. I'll see you there.) 
"The ABC Sunday Nght Movie" for all you soapy people out there is the reprise of the original Love Story. Ryan O'Neal stars as the rich jock and Ali McGraw as the poor tragic girl. Everyone knows the plot and if you don't, the movie tells you it with its first line ("What can you say about a 25-year-old girl who died"'). The movie should have died but didn't. McGraw pulls the same routines as in Goodbye Columbus and Ray Milland, sans, wig, is a typecast bad father. The only good parts of the film were the hockey sequences. The only reason I voice my views on this glamorized garbage is that I know you will watch it anyhow, but one note of warning. The film ran 89 minutes and ABC has it set for two hours. Therefore, get ready for thirty-one minutes of com­mercials. On the channel 16 late moview Burt Lancaster again stars in The Rain­maker with Katherine Hepburn. Miss Hepburn plays a spinster out to get con man Starbuck (Lancaster) in a drought-ridden town. It is based on the N. Richard Nash play. 
Tuesday (Oct. 23) ABC telecasts The President's Plane is Missing. made-for-TV, at seven. Jimmy Stewart stars in the third "Hawkins" installment after "Hawaii Five­0" on CBS. Wednesday, (Oct. 24) has the repeat of Go Ask Alice scheduled on ABC. Jamie Smith Jackson plays a high-school girl hooked on drugs. Andy Griffith plays her father. The story is true and the ending is a shocker. Telley Savalas finally premieres as "Kojak" at nine on CBS. 
"The CBS Thursday Night Movie" for Oct. 25 had not yet been announced as of last week. Friday (Oct. 26) has the second in the ape sagas on tap. James Franciscus plays the next astronaut to a changed earth in Beneath the Planet of the Apes in which he joins Charlton Heston in the lat­ter's fight against the apes and the un­derground mutants. More of the ape culture is shown with Roddy McDowell, Kim last year.Jeremy's parents, good Jews that they are, refused to see their son play the role of Jesus until well into the tour. Knowing the significance of Jesus for Christians, Jeremy had his own hassles with the role. Admitting that he was in­timidated by my being a priest, he asked to sit down and talk sometime. I regret that the time never came, but I do know that really getting into his role has forced him to do what everyone who confronts Jesus must do -redefine himself. 
"In the many hours I spent with the godspellers, and with the very interesting, sometimes weird people that move in theatrical circles, I learned a great deal about their life. In the hours spent viewing the show itself, I came to realize that I could never again read the gospels as though it were just another book. I knew it must be entered into with an effort of assimilation, similar to the way these performers got into their roles. When that happens it's im­possible to remain unchanged." 
Hunter, and Maurice Evans recreating their original roles. The two astronauts decide to blow up the planet with the mutants' rocket bomb. Their efforts make up the film's conflict. 
Saturday <Oct. 26) "The ABC Suspense Movie" has Money to Burn slated. It stars 
E.G. Marshall in a bit of larceny. NBC has John Wayne's Chisum scheduled for that night also. Of course the film is highly fictionalized but we have cattle baron Chisum against the town's evil banker and who else but Pat Garrett and Billy the Kid hanging around for no reason in particular. Glenn Corbet plays Garrett with Geoff Duell as Billy. It is a classic Wayne shoot-em-up; low on plot, big on action. On the channel16 late movie that night John Wayne again stars with Jimmy Stewart, Vera Miles, and Lee Marvin in the great John Ford Western The Man Who Shot Liberty Valence. Perhaps a little too long, the movie centers on lawyer Stewart's being driven to a showdown with villain Marvin. He becomes a here after the gunfight until the truth comes out about who really shot Liberty. Gene Pitney did the theme. Stewart agairu stars the following night in Strategic Air Command, (good luck to all GRE examinees.) a late fifties B-film about the air force on 16. 
Finally, on Sunday Oct. 28. Tony Curtis stars as The Boston Strangler, the true story of self-confessed murderer Albert De Salvo. Henry Fonda with mustache is the relen­tless pursuer of Curtis with a larger nose. The film does have a few lapses but its semi­documentary style and the fact that it is true will hold the viewer's attention. It is based on the Gerold Frank best seller. 
Trivia Quiz: Name the actors who were the voices of the following cartoon characers: a( Underdog, b( Snidely Whiplash, c( Tennessee Tuxedo, and d) Superman (on radio and the first cartoon series a few years ago, not now). 
'.I~ni<Q pna atei, ~tO <P 'swepv uoa (a 'pa!.m<Q StmH (q XO:) AU8A\ atBI ~111 (B :S.I~IASUV 
·, .
.. '. 

the observer Monday, October 15, 1973
6 
j I '• ...... ,. '\ t '·' \ 
I • '' '•, t ••, J, ':. ~ 
----~--­

New party guidelines cause little change 

by Jim Donatben Staff Reporter 
The new party and liquor guidelines went into effect this weekend. In interviews of several hall presidents, the Observer found little change in hall life as a result of the guidelines. 
Zahm hall· took advantage of the new liquor regulations in holding a combination football smoker and _ hall fellows evening with Dr. Evans of the philosophy depart­ment. The guidelines bad little 


Sr. Jolm Miriam on WSND 


Co-education discussed 
by George Velcieh Staff Reporter 
Sr. JohnMiriamJones, Assistant to the Provost, joined the Provost, Fr. James T. Burtchaell, and several representatives of the student press on the WSND Radio program "Contact" Thursday night, and spoke on the various aspects of the co-educational system at Notre Dame. 
Sr. John Miriam called herself the "catalyst, counsellor, troubleshooter, and watchdog over all the women on, campus." She sees as her task to "stimulate people to think about the problems of the the girls on campus." 
by Fred Graver Staff Reporter 
The Observer learned from several sources this weekend that various dealers on and around the campus have been selling mescaline laced with speed, without informing the buyer that 
the amphetamine has been  "cut  
into" the drug.  
The  combination  of  the  two  

drugs c~n cause disastrous effects. 
I iil4r (![ulunial ­I 'anrnkt ifnuBt 
"Enjoy a snack or dinner" 
35 Varieties of Pancakes Chicken -Steak -Sandwiches 
U.S. 31 (Dixieway) North Your Host 
(Across from Holiday Inn) Bob Edwards '50 ... ... ,.. \.' ...·.. .... · .. 
. . .. . . . .. . .. . . . . .. ... . . . . . . 
~. 

effect on the smoker according to parties of the private variety. Zahm president Boris Jelercic. "Private parties followed the "The only difference I noticed guidelines," said Badin president were that the guys were thirstier,'~ 
Laura Dodge. "In fact it w_asn't laughed Jelercic. "If a party has a noticible that parties were going theme, hopefully this will prevent 
on." Her description of the quiet heavy drinking. Yet it seems as 
weekend was echoed by the other though the idea of themes (in­hall presidents interviewed.. cluding professors in smokers) The guidelines seem to be ac-means needing to· have an excuse 
cepted with mixed emotions in the to drink. The guidelines result in 
various halls. Dillon Hall president too much wasted effort in planning 
Wally Gasier views the guidelines in a favorable light.' "In Dillon,a hall or section party." 
all parties must be approved by the Residents of Badin, Sorin, Dillon R.A. and Rector. As a result of the and Grace halls, experienced 
In explaining the role of women on the Notre Dame faculty, she cited the University's per­centage of female teachers at 9.5 per cent while the national average is over 23 per cent. Not discouraged, she stated that ov~ 25 per cent of the new teachers were women, raising the per­centage from last year's 6 per cent. 
She sees the general attitude of society toward women in responsible jobs as more im­portant in Notre Dame's co­educational process than the University's long all-male history. 
When asked whether she was 
satisfied with the system at the 
university, she said, "We can 
Nothing has turned up yet in the various drug clinics in the area, but once the mescaline begins to be widely distribu_ted, they are ex­pecting to hear about it from those who are suffering the bad effects. 
What it comes down to is the old maxim , "Let the buyer beware." The Observer does not the condone the use of these drugs, but it also cannot allow this situation to exist without informing those involved ot:__what they may b~tting into. 
-

never say we are where we want to be, but we are where we can expect to be." Sr. John Miriam cited great improvements in the situation over last year, when the problems of adjustment were further heightened by the constant publicity and television exposure 
forcing  many  girls  to  become  
defensive  and  resentful  to  the  
general  attitude  toward  them.  

This year, th addition of over 400 freshman girls, bringing to total to 831, naturalized the situation. 
In discussing the opinions of the
alumnae toward the change, both Sr. John Miriam and Fr. Burt­chaell agreed that the majority of the Alumnae they encountered heavily supported the coeducation. 
Sr. John Miriam added that those who opposed it were often those who did not understand the process. 
In answer to one of the most important problems cited by the girls, Sr. John Miriam stated that a committee war stormed over the summer to disucss the lighting of various datk and therefore potentially dangerous, parts of campus., The committee found 14 such places, the most obvious one being the section of the south quad in front of Morrissey and Lyons, the next dorm to be converted. The committee has engaged the ser­vices of a lighting company that specializes in campus lighting hoping to not only arrive at a safer campus, but also in Fr. Burt­chaell 's words, "enhance the 
aestheticbeauty of the campus." 
"Contact" will take the air again next Thursday on WSND­AM at 10 O'Clock. 
THE CULTURAL ARTS COMMISSION PRESENTS 
THE DANCE and DRAMA & AMERICAN CHARACTER SERIES 
DANCE AND DRAMA SERIES 
Oct. 23-National Players in CRIME AND PUNISHMENT 
8:00pm O'Laughlin CSMC} Nov. 8-National Theatre of the Deaf 8:00pm, 0'Laughlin (SMC) Dec. 1-Bella Lewitsky Dance Co. 8:00pm, O'Laughlln (SMC) Feb. 19-Marcel Marceau 8:00pm, O'Laughlin (SMC) 
American Character Series {Dates to be announced) 
Gertrude Stein Mark Twain Walt Whitman Ben Hecht Spoon River Anthology 
PATRON CARDS: Priced at $8.00, will be on sale Tues. and Wed. at the Dining Ha lis and the Student Union Ticket Office. 
guidelines and the Dillon system, Due to the lack of such areas in students were more conscious of Sorin, the guidelines have little the responsibility involved in effect on Sorin Hall according to holding a party." their president Ed Chute. 
Other hall presidents in-"Although the guidlines are a step terviewed viewed the guidelines in the right direction, I wish they less favorable. "Personnally, I'd were more liberal," he com-like to have more leeway in reg-mented. ards to the location of parties," Apparently, the new party and said Dodge. "I think we should be liquor guidelines had little efefect allowed to have parties in a on a quiet weekend. However, it blocked off portion of the hallway. remains to be seen what their In halls such as Badin, the small effect will be on a home football lounges are too small for large hall weekend such as Southern Califor-· gatherings." nia 
f---~...~..,~es!t•~:~~at~e~U~p~pe~r'=D~i..,~i!~·io~n~a~n~d~lG~1r~a;,du Sltu.,..d•y"!'in""l"l" ___
..a~te~~"r." M·~",o""li~telr-ey 130 Miles South of San Fr1ncisco 
Monterey Institute of Foreign Studies 

A private liberal arts college granting BA, MA, Teaching Credentials Certificate in Translation and Interpretation. ' 
lAnguages and 

Education Civilizations
History Arabic*International Economics 
Chineseand Management 

French Political Science 
German World Area Studies 
Italian• Translation and Japanese 
Interpretation Portuguese • Russian Spanish

Accredited by the Western Association of Schools and Colleges, California State Board of Education. 
Veterans Approved. *Summer Only George Williams, Dean of Admissions will be at St. Mary's College, Oct. 15, 9-12 and at Notre Dame, Oct. 16, 8:30-5. Interested students should check with the Directors of 
\,':=:P:Ia:c:e:m:e:n:t:.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~:::::::::~~ 
, 
Knights of Columbus Ladies of Columbus 

-MEETING-

Monday, Oct. 15 • 7 p.m. 
refreshments served guest speaker 
~-----­


•

Judicial board: What IS it for? 
by Gregg Bangs Staff Reporter 

The University Judicial Board was used a total of three times last year. Part of the reason for such infrequent usage is that "students are not really aware of the Judicial Board," according to Dave Grimmer, judicial coordinator of Student Government. Grimmer hopes that more students will realize "just what the judicial board is and what it is designed to do." 
The Judicial Board is composed of three undergraduates and three non-students. The non-students can either be faculty members or adminstrators. However, neither the administrators nor the faculty members hold all three "non­student" positions at once. This practice insures that there will be an equal distribution of these two groups on the board. 
Selection of the Judicial Board members are made by the Student Life Co~cil. The screening of Judicial Board candidates is handled by the rules committee of the SLC. One of Grimmer's capacities as Judicial Coordinator is to advise the Rules Committee on the screening The selection of the final panel of twelve board members will be made by October 29. 
When the Judicial Board has a hearing, six of the twelve members will hear the case, while the remaining six members might handle the next cast that is brought up. All panelmembersserve on the Judicial Board at some time. 
When a student is caught in a gross abuse of student's regulations and or rules, he is sent to the Dean of Students. The Dean will then ask the student if he wishes to have his case reviewed bv either the Judicial Board or himself. In most instances, the student will have his case reviewed by the Dean. 

"Ninety-nine percent of the time, the student pleads guilty, and he usually wants to get the whole deal over with quickly. Therefore, he'll opt to have his case reviewed by the Dean instead of taking the time to go before the Judicial Board," noted Grimmer. "Ifstudents knew more about the judicial board, they might use it," he added. 
Another one of Grimmer's roles as Judicial Coordinator is to represent students who have been charged with violating a rule. Grimmer thinks that an advantage of going to the Judicial Board instead of the Dean of Students is that the Board might offer a more 
From eighty-five schools 
Business grad enrollment 

Eighty-five colleges or universit­ies in 20 states and 15 foreign countries have sent students this year to the University of Notre Dame's graduate division '?f the College of Business Ad-
All autos may be banned from on campus parking 
Automobiles may be eliminated 
on campus, according to Dean 
John Macheca. The proposal for 
removal of the cars is for three 
reasons: cars don't add to the as­
esthetic appeal of the campus, they 
take IIIP too much space and they 
pose !f-In added burden to the 
grounds' keepers. 
The restriction, besides 
including students, will be ex­
tended to faculty and ad­
ministration members. Cars will 
only be allowed on campus when 
unloading is necessary. 
Macheca is presently conferring 
with security's traffic division to 
decide on what steps can be taken. 
ministration. The current enrollment of 150 students includes 12 women, a 300 percent increase over last year. 
Foreign countries represented in this year's enrollment include Bangladesh, Canada, Chile, Columbia, France, Ghana, Hong Kong, India, Iran, Japan, Mexico, Panama, Philippines, Thailand and Turkey. 
Tw(;nty seven per cent of the graduate student body is married, according to John R. Malone, associate dean of the College and director of the graduate program. He added that 53 per cent of the students received an un­dergraduate degree in businss or economics, while 31 per cent majored in arts or humanities and 16 per cent in engineering or science. 

More than 275 students have received the master of business administration degree at Notre Dame since the program was inaugurated in 1967. 
Brubeck family here lor concert and seminar 
(continued from page 3) 
musical highlights of the year, although another event planned for Wednesday afternoon at 2:00 may come close to outshining it. At that time, an informal seminar featuring Brubeck and his sons will take place at Elkhart Central High School. For those interested in the intricacies of the. jazz field; and in 

the personalities of Brubeck and 
his  sons,  this  could  prove  quite  
fascinating.  
Tickets  for  the  concert  are  

available at · the door on the evening of the concert. The seminar is free. For jazz fans, and espeically for those who enjoy the music of Dave Brubeck, they are not to be missed. 
THE ND-SMC THEATRE

An Apology 
TRYOUTS-October 15 and 16 at 7 P.M. 

The Observer would like to apologize to Thomas Barnard for 
Jean Anouilh's THIEVES' CARNIVAL

the headline that appeared on page 11 of Friday's edition. The headline 
WASHINGTON HALL (NOTRE DAME)

read "FBI continues to consider 
(use back entrance)

Barnard story as a hoax." As the story related, the FBI admitted 
(Information on tryouts may be obtained from Speech and Drama 
Department office, Room 110, Moreau Hall, St. Mary's)

that there was a possibility that Barnard's story could be a hoax, but also said that they were not 
CALLBACKS -Odober 17 

"proceeding under that assump­
OPEN TO ALL ND-SMC STUDENTS 

tion." 
Applications will be accepted Monday for the position ol 


Observer News Editor 
drop application off at the Observer office 

rounded viewpoint. 
"This is not to say that the Judicial Board is going to be easier on a student," Grimmer asserted, "but the Board has more people to hear and judge a case." Both th~ decisions of the judicial Board and the Dean of Students are final. H a student wishes to appeal his case, he must use the Appeal's Board, which consists of one student, one faculty member and one ad­ministrator. If the outcome of the second hearing isstill urifavorable to a student, a final appeal can be made to the President of the University, who will then decide whether or not he will hear the case. 
Grimmer hopes that the University Judicial Board will be used more often this year. 

he way to buy the insurance you need but may feel you can't afford. For further information call: 33-3104. Talk to: Bob RomerBob Romer Class of '73 The Mutual Life Insurance Company Of New York M0NY MUTUAL OF NEW YORK  
CLASSIFIED ADS Guild bass guitar. Semi-hardWANTED shell case Call Jim 1.409. I am going to be disowned 6 GA's Air Force, 233-4557unless I get 3-4 GA tix for my before 10 am. after 12:30 pm.father for any home game but Air Force. Will pay $$. Call Pontiac Bonneville Con­4077. vertible, Power steering , brakes, newer engine. $200 orDesperatelu need GA tix for the best.offer call 282-1049.Army and Navy games. Call --:---­1364. 1962 T R -3. CIa ssy and dependable but judge forNeed tix to usc game please yourself. Asking $215. Callcall Dan at 282-1568. Jock 232-7682. Desperately need 8 Stud USC FOR RENTtix. Will meet inflationary demands. Call Pat 288-5563. Large, 21 bedroom apt. Completely remodled + fur­Need GA tix to USC. Call Phil nished with full kitchen.1598. Utilities paid. $135 per mo. Call 232-6622 days only, ask forNeed 2 Navy tix. Call Jeff 1137. Jim. Need 2-4 GA tix to Navy. Call 2room apt. fer rent call after 5Frank 8826 after 8 pm. pm. 288-9533. Desperately need 4 GA tix for Double house for rnet-807 PoNavy Will pay. Call Joe 3274. Portage, 4 or more BR's. 2 baths, 2 kitlltlens utilities in.Desperately need 6-10 USC GA cl uded. Call 256-0111 fortix. Will pay good money . Call details. Room for met. 8 min.4773 or 1654. from ND. Call 232-4545. Desperately need 3 GA USC tix. NOTICESCall 7835 now. Morrissey Loan Fund can loanNeed 2 GA Navy tix. Will pay up to $150 at 1 per cent interest,$$. Call 3129. 1 day waiting period. Basement of La Fortune 11:15­Beg inner needs inexpensive 12+15 Mon-Fri.guitar. Call 5749. Wil do typing: term papersNeed 2 GA tix Army. Call 283­manuscripts etc. Call 233-6909.1773. GSU Social Commiittee isDesperately need Army tix. looking for members. Be aCall Beth 7401 or Mike 8736. BPOC; fringe benefits, reirementplcn,etc. Call PaulReally need 3 GA USC tix. B. at 6615 cr 272-7405.Please call Evelyn 6956. PITTSBURGH CLUBNeed 3 USC tix, 4 Navy tix. ATHERE IS A BUS TO PITT­call Tom 6522. Will pay SBURGH FOR SMEESTER BREAK. PAYMENT DUENeed Army tis. Call Tom 232­SUN. OCT 14 7 PM LA FOR­2693. TUEN AMPHITHEATER( 1ST FLOOR)QUESTIONS BOBNeed 2 GA tix for USC game. 2127 ' JOHN 1786.call Sr. Norlene 3739 or 7260 now! European study tour: Dec. 'lT -Jan. 15 England, Ireland,RIDES WANTED Scotland and Wales . 3 college credits availlje. $679 all ex­Need ride to anncinnati Thurs penses from NY. For In­Will pay expenses. Call 1027. formation call Prof. A. R. Black SMC 4948.Help! Need ride to Newark, Delaware (u of Del.l for OCt. Break. Share expenses. Frodo and his companionsAndy 1623. cross the Bri~e on token of the Elfstone.Need ride to D. C. Oct. 18, will Share l!. 1188. LOST AND FOUND Need ride to Pitstburgh Oct. 18. Lost Javelin key ring pleaseWill share expense and call MCP 4728.driving. Jack 3486. Lost white gold ND ring.FOR SALE Initials BMP $10 reward. Call 1868.Yamaha guitar, FG:m(retail price $300) rosewood, inlaid Black mutt found In Flannerpearl, adjustable bridge, area. call 1.()9.Hardshell case, excellent ton·dition. LeaII David 8427.  

... ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--~~---~--------------------~------------------------------------------------------­

the observer Monday, October 15, 1973 






Irish boil Rice, take lum 
Tom Clements turns the corner ... 
... and Cliff Brown cuts upfield ... 

... but Rice's Tom Kramer finds the going a bittougher. 
28-0 

a much easier night than their blue and gray-clad counterparts, (61 plays to 92) but the Irish defenders finished the evening much the worse for wear. End Jim Stock suffered a wrist injury, and tackle Steve Niehaus banged up his good knee and is faced with the possibility of surgery early this week. 
Offensive guard Tom Bolger also sustained a knee injury, and he, too, may have toundergosurgery. 
Notre Dame is now 4-0 and the Irish's next outing will come Saturday in West Point's Michie Stadium, against the Cadets ofthe 
U. S. Military Academy. Rice, now 1-3 will continue it home stand against SWC foe Southern Methodist. 
by Vic Dorr Sports Editor 
It must have been a bitterpill for Rice coach AI Conover to swallow. 
The chair-flinging, window sm­ashing caretaker of the Owls' football fortunes was as caught up as anyone in the hysteria surrounding Notre Dame's 1973 visit to the greater Houston area. 
He declared Saturday night's game "Father's Day," and invited 80-to-100 Catholic priests from the Houston-San Antonio area to at­tend the game and sit behind the Rice bench. 
He sent out 17 co-captains­reportedly, every Catholic on his squad-forthe opening coin toss, and he started a freshman quar­terback ("a Catholic freshman," trumpeted the Owls' pre-game press release) in the night-time confrontation with ND. 
Such ploys have worked well for Conover's Owls in past games. Last season he inspired his team to a second-half victory by hurling a chair through the locker-room window at intermission, and on another occasion, after Rice had engi:1eered an upset over a South­west Conference opponent, the unflappable Conover led the school's band through its post­game performance. 
But against Notre Dame on Saturday night, coach AI Conover's pre-game antics yielded nothing. 
Nor did the Owls' home-field ad­vantage. Nor did a two-week period of preparation for the game with the Irish. Instead, it was Notre Dame who came out on top, both on the scoreboard and in the statistics. 
A neatly-bunched scoring attack­-Notre Dame registered single touchdowns in each period--and everwhelming ground game (406 yards) gave ND 28 points, and on defense the Irish were more than equal to the Owls' wide-open, razzle-dazzle attack. 
Notre Dame's "D" allowed Rice no points and only 142 total yards, and the shutout stretched Notre Dame's string of touchdown-less periods to ten. 
The Irish defenders capped their day's work by forcing and recovering four Rice turnovers. A pair of fumble recoveries, and interceptions by Reggie Barnett and Luther Bradley kept the Owls out of the game. but four Irish turnovers-all fumbles--hampered Notre Dame's attack and kept the game close during the first half. 
Starting quar_terback Tom Clements and alternate Cliff Brown directed the Irish attack to 536 yards in total offense, but Clements saw a pair of promising first-period drives fizzle when first Eric Penick and then Wayne Bullock fumbled well within Rice territory. 
"It appeared to me," said ND 


Extra Points 

Southern hospitality, or maybe it should be Southwestern hospitality, just isn't what it's cracked up to be. 
Saturday Night in Houston the Irish were the target of several on the field and a few off the field insults which not only showed a lack of class on the part of Rice, but also a disregard for the "sport" of college football on the part of head coach AI Conover. 
Saturday night AI had his 110 priests on the sideline, but it didn't do him a whole lot of good. In fact, the Rice ballplayersmight haveshown a little more respect for their presence. For instance, two plays before Reggie Barnett intercepted the double reverse pass, Rice split end Ed Collins spit in Barnett's face. Collins had gone out for apasson which Barnett was covering and the ball was overthrown. As he was wlking back toward the huddlek Collins took out his mouthpiece, looked to see if any of the referees were watching, and like a sixth grade sand lot player, spit in Reggie's face. 
Joe Raymond, The Observer photographer who was at the game noted that Conover had his players coming out on the field like "they hated Notre Dame" and he meant in more than a healthy football-type at­mosphere. "They seemed to hate us personally," he added, "not because it was like L.S.U. was a couple of years ago, because it wasn't. They just hated us." 
No doubt, this was the result of a Conover "psyche" job. 
But Ara Parseghian had warned his team before they even left for the game. "They hate Catholics down there," Parseghian said, "they hate Blacks down there, and they even hate Armenians down there." So if it wasn't appreciated, at least it was expected. 
The melee that erupted when Jim Stock recovered Tommy Kramer's fumble was the result of Kramer kicking a Notre Dame player in the midst of the pile-up after the whistle. Throughout the contest there were verbal exchanges between the players, part of which eventually led to Ross Browner being ejected from the game. 
However, it wasn't only the players who were guilty, but the Rice band got into the act as well. As they marched out on the field at half time, referring to the Orange Bowl, the PA announcer blared rather sar­castically, "Commemorating the memorable occasion of meeting ~is great rival Notre Dame," and the band proceeded to form a lemon while playing "I Can See Clearly Now". After that, another PA announcement referring to Knute Rockne, "Imagine beingtherein the lockerroom for one of his halftime pep talks, the sights, the sounds, the smell-the stink of the lockerrroom, the band will play "Clean Up America." They even neglected to play the fight song although they did stumble through the Alma Mater. 
And the idea of Southwest Conference referees is frightening to Notre Dame fans indeed. There were numerous holding penalties prompting Paul Horning to comment--"The refs could call a penalty anytime at all if they wanted to be technical about it." Parseghain added that he was disappointed with the officiating and the fact that "they penalized us all they way to the Gulf of Mexico." But those are Southwest Conference refs and that's Texas. 
Tim Rudnick, after being clipped four or five times pursuing the play to the other side of the field, was finally able to bring it to the attention of the referee who just nodded and said, "I saw it that time; I'll have to warn him about it," But agin, that was the refs and things like that can be expected to happen. It's justtoobad that this lack of class has to extend to the players, coach, band, and consequently to the thP school as well. Next year, when the Owls visit South Bend, we'll show ..nem what class is all about. 
coach Ara Parseghian, "that most of these fumbles were cause by the wet ball. The astroturf seemed dry enough, but apparently there was moisture below the surface." There was moisture in other places, too. The game was played in 80 degree heat with 95 per cent humidity, and Parseghian com­batted the muggy, drizzly weather by shuttling players in and out of the offensive skilled positions. 
Clements and Brown alternated for much of the final three periods, bulthespunky junior from McKee's Rocks, Pa., wasonthe field for the first three Irish tallies. 
Clements cranked up the game's first TD drive just two plays after Bullock fumbled on the Rice 40. Owl quarterback Tommy Kramer answered Bullock's miscue with a fumble of his own, and the Il'ish took possession on their own 48. Nine plays later, with 2:12 remaining in the opening period, Wayne Bullock plunged one yard over left tackle for the first of four Irish TD's. 
The second ND touchdown followed another Rice turnover. Owl return man Bruce Henley fumbled Brian Doherty's punt at his own 16, and center Joe Alvarado recovered the loose ball for ND. Five yards later, after a motion penalty, Clements aban­doned thegroundgame and went to the air. 
He found tight end Dave Casper wide open in the end zone, and hit the big senior with a 21-yard scoring pass--the first points of Casper's two-year varsity career. 
Clements' pass to Casper came with plenty of time remaining in the half, but the Irish mounted only one other serious scoring threat before intermission. Following Reggie Barnett's theft of flanker Edwin Collins' option pass, Clements, who was the evening's leading ground gainer (99 yards), and Brown moved their team to within field goal range just before the half ended. But Bob Thomas' 30-yard try was wide to the right as time expired_ 
The Irish, however, put the game away immediately at the start of the third period. Gary Diminck returned the second-half kickoff 40 yards to mid-field, and from there Clements moved the ND offense in for its third tally of the night. Art Best highlighted the drive by scampering 31 yards to the Rice 11, and Bullock, two plays later, scored from the two. 
Bob Thomas' conversion put the Irish in front 21-0 with 12:00 still showing in the third period. 
But two more fumbles--both by Clements--kept the Irish off the scoreboard fortheremainder of the third period, and ND did not score 

againuntil just under two minutes 
remained in the final stanza. The 
final drive--and the final touch­
down--belonged to Cliff Brown. 
The senior signal-caller put 
together a 75-yard thrust in the 
game's waning minutes, and 
capped the drive himself by 
scooring 38-yards on an option­
keeper. 
Thomas' point after with 1:23 
remaining ended the scoring. 
"I thought our defense played 
well," observed Conover, "but 
they were just on the field too 
" Notre Dame's defense had 




