ELECTION 
SPECIAL. 
Monday, February 26, 1973 
The vote may be one of our most cherished privileges but the educated vote is clearly more a responsibility than a right. This special issue, published jointly by the Election Committee and The Observer, was designed to offer the responsible voter a clear view of all thirteen candidates in this year's student body elections. 
The view of each candidate offered here has not been altered by any editorial intervention. The only guideline imposed on the candidates was the limit of one page. The art work, text and design are the work of the individual candidates. 
Placement in this publication was determined on the basis of random selection. 
This special issue is made possible through the joint cooperation of student government and The Observer and the time and trouble of Jerry Lutkus, Anthony Abowd1 Rod Braye, Joe Wilkowski, Joe Abell and John Flanni_gan. 
Paul Dziedzic Chairman of the Election Committee 
John Abowd Editor-in-chief, The Observer 

... ... ........ 4 .... 4 4 4 • ··-·-*-''~......L-... _....__ 
our next SBP. • • 

(elected by SAC) 

The Clarke-Singleton ticket is not campaigning in an effort to present "new" and "untried" answers to arbitrary campus "issues". Such a practice has made Student Body elections the fruitless spectacles we know them to be. There are no answers to be found as long as we continue to pretend that our present student government structure can adequately deal with our "hall­oriented" problems. Jim Clarke and Chris Singleton will be the last Student Body President and Vice-President at Notre Dame. 
In their place will function the most capable and potentially representative group on campus­-the Student Association Council made up of the present Hall President's Council and additional Off-Campus representation. That group will then, with the abolition of Student Body officers and the Student Life Council, be the only lobbyist and policy-making organization on campus. The issues will be handled by the men most capable of understanding student opinion, those who live right with the students, the Hall Presidents. 

Academic Council 

Standing apart from this policy-orientated commission will be student services, organized under the direction of the executive coordinator of the SAC. His position will be that of a business manager, not a policy maker, and thus the former dual nature of our head spokesman will be eliminated. The Chairman of the SAC will do what he does best--speak for his halls. The executive coordinator will allow student services to do what they do best--serve students as students want and need them. 
Students will begin to see where their activities fee goes--the SAC will appoint the committee that will allocate those funds, and will also have final ratifying power over that committee's work. The people in the halls will decide, at long last, whether their activities fee should finance those activities which their own halls sponsor, or if they will continue to finance club activities. People who live off-campus will also, at long last, decide whether their activities fee should help to enhance a total off-campus experience or con­tinue to be spent, hidden from them, on those 
various club activities. 
Jim Clarke and Chris Singleton are the first candidates ever willing to put aside the personal "ego-trip" in order to better student govern­ment. They will resign within two weeks. They will resign with Notre Dame in possession of a truly representative student government. We live in the halls. We live in groups off-campus. We must begin to realize that only in those halls and only through capable representation of those off-campus students do we realize our power. Vote Clarke and Singleton. This is the last time a campaign week such as this will ridicule your intelligence. 
. . . our last SBP Clarke--Singleton 

Ride The Cosmic Wave 
With special thanks to: 
Frank O'Malley Jim Hunt Michael Welby Paul Reimann Jeff Me Pherson Joe Clement 'Mook' Flora George Dyroff Mark Chechia Jim Neff Mike McQuestion Joe Marino 'Root' Cornelius Mike 'Oakie' Madden Mom and Dad and Chuck Luci lie Perrelli Lyon's Hall G.H. Bigels Simo Zorro Mickey Mouse Keith Emerson John Lennon Rick Wakeman Bozo Geezer Uriah Heep Plastic Fantastic Sunshine Panama Red Red Baron Molly the Cow 
and finally 
Dan Wesolowski Jay Angeluzzi 



RAY CARLSON 


of people & rabbits ... 
In a campaign, it seems awful easy sometimes to lose yourself. Hopefully, Ne didn't lose you or us, through it all. Wl''d like to here express what we think we really stand for. 
The main ideas, as I personally tried to put across was that Wl'. the people here are the university. It has little to do with l'mpty buildings or regulations but with people. You have probably heard this from a lot of people lately. I'll try to say what this idea means to me. 
J:o'irst let me comment about a couple of proposals by other candidates. The one is the idea of incorporation of the student. I reject the idea as not good. You don't fight the administration that sometimes runs like a machine by l'onstructing another machine. It can have no positive result and can only lead to friction on both sides. 
The other idea I reject is overconcern for new buildings. Of l'ourse. we need a new student center, that has been proposed. but we have no possible way of funding the building and is thus. rather hopeless. 
OK. so what do I stand for? First, I think we must fight against rules which have nothing to do with promoting general good. 
J:o'irst. Parietal regulations, and all, should be l'liminated by directly opposing the present rule. Sl'condly .women should be allowed to live where they wish. They aren't objects placed on campus to be on display for us. 
Nl'xt. we must also implement positive programs. One such area for consideration is off-campus assistance. We can no longer consider ourselves a purely residential university. Thl' needs of all of us must be considered. Also along with these programs. we propose a winter term of study and leave of absence program, with which you should now be familiar. 
These are my proposals and I ask your support. My own qualifications for the office of SBP are quite inclusive. I worked for a half-year on a dairy farm after leaving school <and before coming back) and am a proficient gardener as wl'll. Such abilities could definitely add a new flair to the office. (Presently we need some one to raise white rabbits Tor us in this campaign. l 
Hl'ally in all seriousness, I think its time for us to be con­cerned with what Student government can do for us here, not how the bureaucracy alone works. 
Many problems are only going to get solved if we get together. 1 really believe this is the principal way of over­coming our security worries. Though some guards are needed. each one of us must really be concerned with the others here to make this a safe place as well as a good place to be. I really want to do something positive here in so many areas from academics to personal living but the more I consider. the more I know it can't be done without you. 
How about getting together? 

Photogenic Tom Kastelic, on the left. Slovenian, steam tunnel expert. dropout. former rock entrepeneur, confirmed schizoid. "I am fearless half of the time." 
Son of Tito 
Somewhere a-long the line I decided that three years of Notre Damt! were better than four, and so as a junior I went to Innsbruck, and in keeping with this thought, I realized that six months of ND-Innsbruck were better than twelve. So I quit. packed around, and wound up building Opels in Berlin. Eventually I came home to see McGovern elected. (And to those running with past experience in politics of any sort, Pspecially McGoverns, if you still persist you've got to be as looney as mel. In January they let me in, and I returned. 
I deeply believe in the experiential value of the winter term of independent study and the leave of absence program, and I want to see them adopted here. Members of the ad­ministration and faculty approve of both plans,and we should move for quick acceptance or else we'll wait as long for this as we waited for co-education. This is why I've run, and consequently I am now regarded as just another megalomaniac seeking the office. Guilt by association. 
D(\ what you want, but if you wanna go to Mexico, you'll have to get there yourself. 



TOM KASTELIC 
-· ..__~_....__

.-_ __ .a.._._ L ....... a, .. LLL4.. ..
' 


~Brian Mastro SBP Bill Fenton SBVP 

FORCED OFF CAMPUS HOUSING? 
WHERE WILL YOU LIVE NEXT YEAR? 

~··~ 

Our main intention for running for SBP and SBVP is to give all undergraduate students the opportunity to live on cam­pus. We believe that the main issue at this moment is whether or not you will be forced to live off campus. 
Through our research, we have organized a 6 point plan in which the university would be able to house on campus those students that otherwise would be required to leave. We agree with Fr. Hesburgh's views expressed during the Presidential dinner of Junior Parents Weekend. He stated that the total education within the Notre Dame framework cannot be found only within a book and a classroom. but is developed outside the classroom on the campus itself. Through interaction with fellow students. cultural entertainment, and ·recreational activities. one can become oriented with the total benefits of a university education. These benefits would possibly no longer exist if the student is forced to move off campus. 
We have developed these 6 points after a careful in­vestigation and consultation with the proper authorities involved. 
I. Rent McCandless Hall from SMC--this has been discussed between us and the St. Mary's administration and has had a favorable reaction. Two provisions remain--an agreement with the SMC girls now living in McCandless to shift their residences to Augusta and Regina Halls, where there are unoccupied rooms; an agreement with the sisters of the Holy Cross to lease Augusta Hall to St. Mary's. Why McCandless Hall rather than Augusta Hall? McCandless would serve the purpos~ of a men's dorm without en­dangering the present security at St. Mary's. It is totally isolated from the other women's residence halls, via the underground tunnel system. No other hall on the SMC campus would serve the same purpose as McCandless concerning campus security. ' 
2. Columba Hall--We have discussed with the Holy Cross brothers the possibility of using Colamba Hall for un­dergraduate students. It is possible for the few brothers presently living in Columba to move to Holy Cross Junior College, thus releasing the entire building for undergraduate use. 
:l. Carroll Hall--Return Carroll Hall to undergraduate students. Graduate Students should bear the burden of moving off campus. This point is expressed in the univer­sity's Bulletin of Information. 
4. 
Renovate the Old Biology Building--The Law School, which presently occupies this building has intentions of returning to the old Law School Building during the summer. Although the Psychology Dept. has plans to relocate their dept. in this building for the Fall semester, it is possible to postpone this movement until a later date. The added room and board income provided by students who would reside in this hall would provide the money necessary to renovate the building. It is in an ideal location on the North Quad. 

5. 
Brownson Hall, St. Joseph Hall, Moreau Seminary-­More than half of the rooms in Moreau Seminary are empty. A relocation of the priests and seminarians from Brownson and St. Joseph Halls to Moreau Seminary would provide space for undergraduate housing in these halls. 

6. 
Morris Inn--At Princeton University, the overcrowding of students was temporarily remedied by making use of the Princeton Inn for undergraduate housing. We suggest that the same solution be applied to the Notre Dame temporary housing problem. Use the Morris Inn for· an undergraduate residence Hall. 


The above plan is highly feasible. It is with the students and parents backing that the university will open its eyes to the fact that students do not want to be forced off campus and that available housing does exist on the campus. Without such support from the students, the university may assume that the students are indifferent as to where they live. If this idea is assumed by the university, then future decisions on student housing may not consider the students' opinions. ThP.n the students will ultimately suffer. 
• f 


JoseGonzalez--SBP Tim Burke--SBVP 
In issuing this statement on our campaign we feel obligated to present more than simply an elaboration of the major points of our platform. We must also concern ourselves with the philosophy behind our campaign and with the role that student government is going to play in your lives, if any. The question of whether or not student government will become more involved with an increasing number of students is an issue that is especially important to those of you who are currently freshmen or sophomores. Since the election this week will determine to a large extent the course that student government will take, we will present our views on this issue first. 
Student government has often been criticized in past years for being aloof and ineffective in meeting student demands. In some cases this has been true, but we do not feel that the remedy to this problem lies in abolishing student government either partially or in its entirety. Its greatest handicap is not in its structure, but in the inability of individuals to co­ordinate their efforts and to work to their full capacity. Thus, we feel that the criticism may well be misplaced: what is needed is more responsible leadership on the part of those who are involved in student government. The prospect of the abolition of student government leaves a pretty bleak picture for future classes at Notre Dame. 
The alienation that students sometimes feel towards student government is probably due to the fact that the whole process seems so remote and pre-determined. Those of us who are among the "rabble" of ND oftentimes feel left out of decisions concerning campus life. We feel, therefore, that student government should nit be reserved solely for members of self-perpetuating political dynasties, nor should the student body presidency necessarily be the piece de resistance for a long and lucrative academic-political career. 
One of the things that King Kersten has proved to us is that a student of humble origins and with no prior "qualifications" or endorsements can win a campus-wide election and run the machinery of student government as well as his predecessors. We won't go so far as to suggest that the King was himself once a member of the "rabble" at Notre Dame, but we will admit that our own roots are in that selfsame "rabble." 
We don't consider long lists of "qualifications" and en­dorsements necessarily valid indicators of success in the roles of SBP or SBVP. The ultimate success of a given ad­ministration depends upon the goals it has determined to work for, its committment to those goals, and its willingness to put in the time and effort necessary for the desired results. The power of the SBP and SBVP is of course limited, but the necessity for dedication and perseverance remains. We feel that we have the competence necessary for the roles of student body president and vice-president, and hence we have entered the race. 
The goals for which we have decided to work were outlined briefly in our campaign announcement last Friday. They cover five general areas: I> improved social facilities 2) off­campus services 3) le~al services 4) student-alumni 
relations. and 5) academic life. At this point, we would like to 
C'laborate on those areas. 

One of the prominent issues of this campaign seems to be 
the improvement of social facilities on campus. The primary 
focus of this improvement lies in the renovation of LaFortune 
Student Center. We feel that this renovation should be co­
ordinated with the development of the new mini-park to be 
toea ted between LaFortune and the Hayes-Healy building. 
Thus. student government should direct the renovation of 
LaFortune to the Committee on Campus Environment, which 
is composed of graduate students and faculty as well as 
undergrads. Having spoken with a graduate student on that 
committee, we feel that they would best be able to make 
viable plans or suggestions. 

With increasing numbers of students being forced to live 
off-campus, we feel that the University should extend its 
services to the 0-C student. One way would be to expand their 
list of available off-campus housing by dropping the fee that 
is currently being charged in order to be included on the list. 
More landlords would sign up, and the cost of publishing the 
list should not be that great. 

A second service that should be provided for the 0-C student is an off-campus food co-op. Such a co-op would be located off-campus and would stock items that are in fairly high demand. The feasibility of an 0-C co~o·p requires further investigation, but we have already contacted two local wholesalers concerning costs. 
The third area of our platform concerns legal services. We advocate that student government work closer with the Notre Dame Law Students Association. Currently, the law students are engaged in providing needed legal advice to members of the South Bend community. This service should be extended to the undergraduate student body as well. As an example, one area of advice could concern the rights of tenants and landlords. 
The fourth suggestion on our platform calls for improved relations between students and alumni. With the recently proposed cut-backs in federal funds for education, many Notre Dame students may be forced to look for new sources of financial aid in order to fund their education. We suggest that student government work closer with the Student Alumni Relations Group (SARG) in an attempt to find new sources of revenue. Such sources could include summer jobs, loans. scholarship funds, or possibly a referral system to other sources of employment. 
Our fifth plank concerns academic life. We are in favor of extending the drop-period from the present limit of five weeks to mid-semester and an accurate appraisal cannot be made until then. We are also in favor of extending the add­period to two weeks after the first day of class. 
The proposals we have listed above are by no means l'omprehensive, but they do represent the areas in which we have taken an interest. Hopefully, student government in the coming year will 'Pntailmuch more than this; we are asking the support of those who .share our views. 
IL ~ -.-. ..... -­




HESS DAVIS 


. I I 
'. 
I'•' 

The Pussycat 
Born: Tipperary, Ireland 
Return $3 of each student's ad(vities fee to halls to improve hall life; No other candidate has promised a direct sharing of funds. Bring HPC Chairman into Student Association, with office space in LaFortune. 
Remainder of Budget to be administered by three Hall Presidents, Student Association President, V.P., and Treasurer, and Off-Campus Reps. 
Using $3 fund-sharing plan for off-campus, set up Food Co-op, Tenement's Union to promote and seek better housing, set up shuttle system with University, and seek merchant discounts. 
Actively seek student and faculty participation on Board of Trustees. Support LaFortune Renovation Committee's Work, including seeking funds from Alumni, and establishment of Rat:,skellar Bar. Better recreational opportunities for women, including expansion of interhall program to include St. Mary's. Social stimulants: Free, Name-Group concert by the Lake: Campus Coc.'rs Party. 
Mike Davis Sophomore, Alumni English major Arts & Letters Council Ombudsman Service Home: Tampa, Fla. 

No Incorporation 

The proposal to incorporate Student Government would create more problems than it would solve. Along with the rights of incorporation come the responsibilities: A corporation can be sued; a corporation would have to pay for the use of La Fortune, if allowed to remain on campus; if incorporated as a non •profit (tax-exempt l corporation, Student Government, 
Inc. could not get involved in political matters (the war, 18-year-old drinking) without endangering its tax-exempt status. To lose it would mean paying about 48 per cent of Student Activities Fees in TAXES!!! 

No Abolition 

The proposal to turn Student Government over to the H PC loses sight of what each group is meant to do. If the HPC takescomplete control, one of two things would happen: Either the Hall Presidents would be so concerned (and rightly sol about their own halls that campus-wide projects (Student Union, Social Commission, LaFortune Renovation, etc,) will suffer, or the Hall Presidents could become so bogged down with campus affairs that they would lose sight of their real concern: the Halls themselves. Perhaps the most obvious objection is that the peoJ?_Le 'J\f.hO.wllUid have the ultimate control (the H PC Chairman and the appointed Executive Co-orrlinator) will not be elected by the Student Body at large. Finally, to quote a once and future king, "People who promise to resign don't always do so." 
LET US TAKE YOU HIGHER 


Galloway-Batow emphasize four point plan 
tJnfortunately, student politics has reached a stage where the professional politician is at home. Sam and I aren't professional politicians--we have no hall campaign managers. no publicity men, and hopefully no plastic smiles. fo'or three years we have been promised better com­munications with student government, a closer community, more student power. For us these are excellent ideas but very intangible. Sam and I have tangibles--we have a four point program and admittedly may miss some important issues. However. the problems we do pose--we have solutions for. 
Our first point is the Farley -Breen-Philips problem. This is not only a problem of the present but also one of the future. For with women not being able to move off campus and an administration committment to Freshmen and coeducation. We face the real possibility of more dorms going to women. Wl' fel'l the university owes the student information as to where he stands. Our solution is that when the dorms are chosed to go co-ed that the university should have estimates of how many students from each hall would have to go off campus. These estimates could be made from figures of incoming Freshmen and persons displaced by the move. These estimates would allow the hall rector or government to find out how many students are voluntarily moving off then hold a hall lottery to find who must go. 
I believe that the problem will not be large when students are asked to voluntarily move rather than being forced off. 
Our second point deals with the earmarked bowl money. Wl' reel that 4 to 5 percent of this money could go to intrahall athletics. This means the average domer who supports the 
plan with Dave Batow.

football team but doesn't participate in varsity or Interhall activities will benefit. This money could go for any equip­Our final point deals with the reutilization of La Fortune.
nll.'nt a section would vote for. We also feel the 95 percent Sam and I feel that La Fortune can be an informal meetingwhich goes to minority scholarships might be directed to place. Informal activities can be funded with a greater<•qualize the ratio between Black men and women at Notre assurance of a better man to women ratio. A tradition of LaDame. 
fo'ortune being a student union must be started now.
Our third point deals with security. We feel that a "deter" Finally Sam and I will not be knocking at your door asking svstem (as used in Alumni> could be put in all halls to be for votes, but we are willing to talk to any interestedu'tilized after 10 pm every night. This could cut down on students. We hope you will look carefully at our platform inundesirables in the hall. and also not culminate into what Mr. 

government affairs. But for once let's not talk about longLutkus has so novelly referred to as an atmosphere that l'ange plans--Let's Get Something Done! 



Nollet and Goetz: Do It 
The Five Year Plan 

The biggest problem facing Student Government and Notre 
Dame. is the problem of housing. The University, in con­
junction with Student Government, must provide a stable, 
viable plan for male and female housing in the coming years. 
This plan must incorporate the following: It must designate the dorms to be selected for female housing, and also designate stringent methods for this selection. 
Another thing that must be considered in this plan is the phasing out of the selected dorms. "Phasing out" programs will cause problems, but to incur greater problems without such a plan is purely absurd. 
We would like to see the advent of 24-hr. visitation and Co­ed dorms in such a program. These are real-life situations yet untried on this campus, and should also be tried here, in view of successful attempts elsewhere. 
If such is not provided by the Administration, it becomes the job of Student Government to find the necessary solutions. 
Off-Campus 

One of the most important problems facing Student Government is the assistance to be given to Off-Campus individuals. Estimates of those being forced off campus seem to be around 500 people, and facilities for these people must be provided. 
Minimally, a food co-op is definitely needed. The University should also provide some well delineated methods for the transportation and housing of these students. 
Student government should also look into legal recourse for these students. At Boston College, the University was sued for forcing students off campus, and the case won by the students. If necessary to help those being forced off, Student Government must be willing to help. 
Student Government should also extend the services of C'.O.U.P. to include off-campus business activities as well as the rip-offs encountered on this campus. The students must have an agency to investigate, to inform, and to eliminate rip-offs. 
And Further... 

LaFortune, after its complete renovation, should be open at hours more convenient for all students. It should be open as it is needed, and not be subject to arbitrary opening and closing hours. 
The University should look into the A-B-C-nocredit method of grading for non-major courses. This system would allow the student to recover after a singularly bad semester. 
Do It 

Student Government must prove itself this year. We must take a strong stand on all the issues. 
Notre Dame cannot be allowed to find recourse solely in outmoded committees, but must immediately mobilize itself when problems arise. 
We feel the time for changes in Notre Dame has come, and we feel that we provide a viable program for these up-and­coming changes. 

·'Student Government can do what needs to be done if it simply refuses to be snowed under by reports and committees. By having the time to see what goes on, by being unworried about censure. by utilizing full force of the persons involved, and by using the media. you can get attention to the problems and use that attention to solve them." 
-Don Nollet 




Nollet Goetz 
.. 


ND is a great place to be from. Let's make it a great place to be at. 
with apologies to Karl Marx: 
A specter is haunting Notre Dame--the specter of 
decadence. All the powers of old Notre Dame have entered 
into a holy alliance to exorcise this specter: Pope and bishop, 
administration and alumni, campus poobah and campus 
;ecurity. 
Where is the party in opposition that has not been decried 
as decadent by its opponents in power? Where the opposition 
that has not hurled the branding reproach of decadent 
against the more advance opposition parties? 
It is high time that decadents should openly, in the face of 
the whole University, publish their views, their aims, their 
tendencies, and meet this nursery tale of the specter of 
decadence with a Manifesto of the party itself. To this end-we 
wish to usher a 'New Age of Decadence' into Notre Dame 
with the following platform. 
Matt Kubik-Gordan Mason Statement of Intent 
Time is proper to put away the toys and folly of past years. At present the people of Notre Dame are in a unique position to effect a transformation from the statis in which we still have room to squirm to a new mode of coherent and con­structive dynamism. Perhaps our most valuable asset as a student body, and ironically enough, an asset which has yet to achieve concrete fruition, is our untapped well of positive potential which we clearly see as the spirit of the sixties· resurrecting itself in the seventies. As Norman Mailer said, "Notre Dame ... is now entering the present, the whole fer­ment of the sixties is taking place there now." In our brief statement to follow, we introduce our plans for taking ad­vantage of this, "ferment" so that Notre Dame may exfoliate into the community of which it is now seed. 
A "quadruple" standard now exi<;ts between the ad­ministration, men, women, and ethnic minorities .,.con­cerning the enforcement of the regulations in the Stifdent Manual. In this regard we see it necessary to call for the inclusion of a "Procedural Protection Clause," in the .Judicial Code of Notre Dame. In order to further protect the rights of all Notre Dame Students we will seek the cooperation of the Notre Dame Law School in supplying a Public Defender of the Student Body. We do not however, intent to set up a Student Government in opposition to the administration; rather, we heartily wish to work with the administration in all matters. Yet, a healthy student­administration must be characterized by mutual respect f,or basic human rights. We will not, therefore, quietly acquie.Sce to flagrant violations of student rights. 
Wt> are now experiencing a "crises" in co-education. It is not upon the administration that the burden of co-education resides. The administration could admit as many wo~en as they may wish without co-education taking place. Women, either few or many, will not achieve integration qt Notre Dame until the students themselves create the atrrtosphere for the coming together. Our Student Government will in­stitute those types of activities which are conducive to the meeting of the sexes upon a common ground of shared humanity. 
This we believe, is the primary function of the Student Union. They are essentially ~e most important organization on campus. During the last two years, during this critical period, the Student Union fund has been significantly reduced. More money must be given to the Student Union, and as a result. more life will be injected into the campus. A 

can1pus-wide search will be ;a:.mched in order fo acquire tpe 
student most qualified as Student Union Director. Once he­
she has been appointed, we will not hesitate tu <.~sk for their 
resignation if they do not meet the standards on which they 
\\'Pre selected. 
In order to facilitate our co-education, it is necessary that 
t>nvironments conducive to relaxed and human interaction be 
t>stablished. Money and assistance will be made available 
through the Student Government to any hall that is willing to 
organize low-pressured gathering spaces on a permanent 
basis. !<'or example, an ideal location for such an en­
vironmt>nt would be Holy Cross Hall, which already has 
l'acilities available. A "Halfway House" could easily be 
t>stablished there, to provide a comfortable place for students 
of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College to meet. 
We feel it extremely important that a close relationship 
with St. Mary's College be re-established. We will therefore 
do all in our power to, once again, unite the two campuses 
into the integrated organism that should naturally exist. 
Plans for the renovation of LaFortune Student Center are 
presently being prepared. Unfortunately, it is impossible for 
anyone to accelerate the pace of the renovation which should 
be completed by summer's end 1974. Until this time, 
however, we plan to obtain optimum use of LaFortune as it is 
at present. 
Among the meeting places to be provided, is a Minorities 
Cultural House, which will be inclusive, rather than ex­
clusive in scope. It will serve as a permanent place where 
individuals can come together, the•·eby fostering a greater 
sense of community for Notre Dame. 
Unless we are contemplating a complete change of life style at Notre Dame. strong efforts must be made to main­tain the University as a residential community. It may, therefore, become necessary to urge a decrease in the number of male freshmen being enrolled. We clearly un­derstand that this time of co-education evolution is a difficult one, but we feel that the University is overcomplicating matters by the inhumane manner in which students may be forced to reside off-campus. Until the University regains its equilibrium; services, equal representation, and equal .Student Government funding must be made available to these expatriated students. We wish to co-qperate with the University in seeking resolutions to these problems, but should they fail to actively realize their obligation to off­campus students, it is again the duty of the Student Govern­ment to fill the vacuum, thereby protecting student's rights 
and providing services. 
Notre Dame is a great place to be from. Let us make it a great place to be at. 
.. li

..........._..............,.. ...·-·........................................._..._ ................. ...._............__ ............,.....
_ _ __,__...__ 



IF YOU 
1. 
Don't Drink 

2. 
Enjoy paying exorbitant prices lor ACC events 

3. 
Neither indulge in. nor know anyone who indulges in drugs 


4. Are not a woman, nor care about woman's 
rights 
5. 
Don't live and never will live off-campus 

6. 
Are not a minority stude..nt, and you don't know any 

7. 
Never have nor will spend a portion of a summer in South Send 

8. 
Think the class-cut policy is still needed 

9. 
Think that students should have no 


decision in who teaches them lO. Are not a member of any club; 
Then we don't want your vote. If you are affected 
by any of the above points, then vote for: 

MOSKOWIT & 

.CLEMENcv~~~ 


ii.l:i:::::!~i~l.::::!i!..:...ii 

INCORPORATE! 
I. What is a corporation? 
concerning the forcing off of 

--The student corporation is a more effective means of ob­taining student objectives and needs through a business-like corn rnunica tion with the University and outside in­stitutions. 
II. What can it do? 
--It can provide for the students a legal corporation just as Gilbert's is a corporate business. It can ask for an in­terpretation or injunction from a court of law concerning University policy such as for­cing students off campus. Also it can obtain federal funds from HUD for student building ventures. It can redirect funds 


Glenn Sorge 
toward activities more beneficial to the student body. 
III. Compromise 
--The objective of this campaign is not to confront the University on every issue, but to provide a practical and effective means to foster real communication 
between students and ministration, students alumni, and students faculty.  ad­and and  
lV. It has worked!  

--At UCLA the student corporation has existed for well over a decade. Th'ey now operate student owned housing and food complexes for the benefit of the students. At Boston College the student corporate government asked for a legal interpretation students from that residential campus. The court ruled that a residential university could not force students off campus. Thus a precedent has been set! Other notable student governments that have incorporated include Harvard, The University of Michigan, and Oberlin. 
V. Why a student corporation? 
--As stated before, a student corporation is a legal entity communicating with the University on an equal, business-like basis. Although 
the student corporation will still operate through committees like the SLC on local issues, sometimes major issues like the negotiation of room contracts.,. forcing of students off-campus, or paying $50 for auto security may need to be interpreted by a court of law rather than trustees or committees. (A classic example: The Boston College ruling that students have the right to remain on a residential campus.) The student corporation is exactly what it is called--the students' corporation which provides co­ops, student jobs and lower prices in these co-ops, student owned and operated ventures, and an equal bargaining position. 
--A fee of $50 is all that is required to obtain a charter. It will be the best $50 ever invested at Notre Dame! 

CAMPAIGN HEADQUARTERS--GAME ROOM IN FLANNER BASEMENT Phone numbers--7863 or 7901 



Alice Woicieszek ·· Blake Word a I 
The primary function of Student Government is to provide a voice for students. It can only perform this function properly if it is in touch with the students it serves. In order to provide for afreer exchange of ideas between the students and their government we will schedule regular meetings in C'ach hall with at least one representative from Student Government in attentdance to gather ideas and problems so ns to better begin work on them. We will also expand the Ombudsman Service to provide for a means of getting student opinion. Beyond this. the door to our office will a !ways be open to all students of this university. 
The following proposals should give you an idea of the direction we would like Student Government to take in the nt'xt year. 
SOCIAL LIFE 
I l We endorse the proposal before the SLC to move offices from LaFortune to the Old Psychology Building and tran­sform the office space vacated into a youth hostel. This will alleviate the problems encountered by many students having overnight or weekend visitors. 
21 Construction of a mall on campus to include a restaurant. movie house. laundromat. quick food franchise, FOOD SERVICES grocery store and various other services. This mall would be 
I l Give the present food service until the end of the year to

constructed by use of private funds. Ownership of the mall 
improve. If there is no improvement, replace them. 

would revert to the university after a determined period of 
2l Give the student the option to buy meal tickets for one

time. 
! I l. two !2l, or three (3) meals a day.

:31 With passage of an 18 year old drinking law, a standing 
3l The possibility of making meal cards valid in the Huddle 

offer from a beverage producer to build a new student union 
and Pay Caf should also be considered.

should be accepted. This student union could provide a 
4 l Students should be allowed to eat in any dining hall they 

student bar. bowling alley. ping pong , pool, card and 
wish.

meeting rooms. This union would be operated by the students on a work-study basis. COEDUCATION 4l More free student activities such as concerts, dances 
I l A list of potential women's dorms for 74-75 should be

and movies. 
published before room picks this year.

51 We commend the Student Union--Academic, Cultural 
2l We propose a feasbility study for the building of a new

Arts. Social and Services Commissions for doing a good job 
dorm.

this year. 
:3) Girls should be given the same rights to live off-campus 

6l We urge the removal of Brother Gorsch as director of 
as male members of the campus.

LaFortune. 
4 l No student from Breen-Phillips or Farley should be

7) Halls should be autonomous in regard to parietals and 
forced to live off-campus.

parties. 
HEALTH SERVICES

SECURITY 
"It is a sad state of affairs when parietal violations have a 1 l A dentist on campus twice a week, and on call. 
higher priority than a student's secirity in his own room." 2l Effective referral systems for all specialists. 1 l Replacement of Arthur Pears with a person who is more 3) Expanding the counseling service to include responsive to student needs. professional aid for alcoholism, drug abuse, birth control and 2l Better lighting on campus. marriage counseling. 3l More visible security on campus, but not in a way as to 4l Provide free transportation to the hospital or for harass students in dorms. I referrals. 4 l Reordering of priorities so robbery and assault will be 
GOVERNMENT

placed on a higher level than breaking parietals. 5 l Security doors for any hall requesting them. 1 l The HPC should not be a policy making body. It does, however, provide a useful forum for discussing hall
ACADEMICS 
problems, and as such would be expected and encouraged to 1 l Change the grading system to A, B, C, and Un­work closely with our administration. satisfactory. Credit would not be given for an unsatisfactory, 2l We propose the formation of a student-faculty council to neither would it be figured into the GPA. This system has provide better relations between students and faculty .to already been implemented at other universities. If you're solidify student-faculty action. good enough to gt in you're good enough to stay. 3l Incorporate class officers into student government. 21 Expand the pass-fail option to sophomore year and in­4l Create a post within our administration to deal with all crease the number to two (2) per semester to all non-major, minority problems. non-required courses. 3 l The pass-fail option may be added or dropped in favor of a letter grade at any time before the final. "The challenge of leadership is a challenge not only to 4 l A student should be able to drop a course at any time student government, but to every student. We are pre-apred before the final and not have it shown on the student's to accept the challenge, if you are." transcript. 5 l The cut policy should be at the discretion of the Open the door to student government. professor with a mandatory minimum of three (3). 
6) Elimination of Collegiate Seminar as a requirement. Vote Wojcieszek -Wordal. 
---.J~..............~o-.a........_......a.........~....;a..._..........-__.~....................................J......................_..-·.......................... ~.... • .. • hr b h, h ...... he .. zhn h: b .. 6 h .... J
L ...._ ..... ..., .. h.,* +.ha...L._ -.hrM -----­
A Vote For Zero Is A Vote For Nothing 

z 
E 
R 
We, Redman and Zero, in order to promote a sensible election, propose to you, the students of du Lac, the following proposals and questions for your consideration. 
Immediate expulsion of any student discovered spitting cranberry sauce out of their mailbox. 
An extension of the Sophomore Year Abroad program to include Jay's Lounge. 
To promote greater community in­volvement, the cancellation of all classes during the I.H.S.A.A. basketball tour­nament. 
The return of Grand Prix weekend using the winding roads on campus as the course, of course. 
Is it true that everything in life is Z? A special letter jacket for quad streakers. When you catch some Z's, do you release 
them afterwards? We do solemnly swear that this is Z truth, whole truth, and nothing but Z truth. 
It all adds up to .Zero a d Redman 
R E D 
M 

0 A 
N 


BRENNAN TYRRELL 
' ....... d sd ...... .; .. zr1,.. c1 ........ ..................................... d ..... 4 -,.. .... 4 J .................. rf ""' ..... J "" .._.......~.......~.___,I 
.----------------~~~~~-----­
.. 


.._ -....._i..... .....__......_ ..... .............__ __ ......... h ...... h .... • • • • • t .., ..........., •he·-.--o.Jt-lllto.leboo•+:.,......,...._..,....._.........-.........,. ,........_~..,........w ...,.olb_..,.....,....
... ----b»tt+'* ••• 


Primary Election Tuesday, February 27 
General Election 
(for top two finishers in Primary Election) Thursday, March 1 
Vote in your hall or at the 
off-campus office during the 
lunch and dinner hours. 

• • • + * -.... .. ..... ... ' ,.. ...'""""""' • .. .. .. .............. ............ .... .... .... ..... .. • • .. • ... ................... .. .... -.& • • .. .... • A ..... ---_.............. ... ...... -....... ....o.l
ft I d ....... 

On The Inside 
Election coverage ... pages 6-7 H-Man rev.iews cam­paign ... page 9 



serving the notre dame -sf. mary's community 

Monday, February 26, 1973
Vol. VII No. 88 
HPC releases critical paper on OC ruling 
by Joseph Abell 
Managing Editor 
The HPC released a statement last night calling for administrative action to halt the situation of dormitory overcrowding without forcing students off-campus, and threatened to ignore University policies concerning the halls if that action was not taken. 
In an emergency meeting at Holy Cross Hall, seventeen members of the HPC and ten rectors discussed dor­mitory overcrowding and means -to alleviate it. 
In the HPC's statement, the hall presidents criticized the administration of "continuously overlook(ingl the mormous potential which hall staffs possess as to forming policy concerning programs implemented within their halls." The Council also declared that "basic changes must occur in the fundamental decision-making struc­ture of the University." 
They expressed disappointment in both the current ruling and the means by which that ruling was decided. They claimed that "those who live in the day­to-day l?ituation resulting from such important programs should participate in the decision-making itself." Com­mittees are unable to fully grasp the "reality of the situation," they said, and that the problem of overcrowding on campus and forcing students to live off-campus is "another glaring example" of university action without consultation with hall staffs. 
If these changes could not be made, the statement said, the HPC "could no longer be responsible for enacting the University's decisions concerning their halls." 
They forwarded a number of 
proposals as alternaties to the forced 
off-campus ruling. These included 
looking into the possibilities of the use 
of Brownson Hall. Carroll Hall and the 
old Psychology building as un­
dergraduate housing; the use of public 
rooms. such as study lounges, etc., as 
undergraduate housing; and the 
allocation of funds gained through the 
present overcrowding situation for 
"'alternate housing." 
The statement also made suggestions eoncerning the current off-campus situation assistance for any students forced off-campus: 
--an effective off-campus office would be established through the appointment of a University central staff member as its direct(\r. 
--a comprehensive list of off-campus housing would be compiled and released as soon as possible to enable students forced off-campus to find suitable housing before the next semester begins. 
-this office would conduct in­vestigations into rent control for Notre Dame student housing in the South Bmd a rea. 
IIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 
A group of 17 hall presidents and ten rec· 
tors met last night in Holy Cross Hall to 
discuss the recent plan to alleviate over­
crowding in the University's dormitories. It 
became clear that this group was disap­
pointed with both the decision and how it was 
made. The administration has continually 
overlooked the enormous potential which hall 
statts possess as to forming policy con· 
cerning programs implemented within their 
halls. It was the feeling of this group that 
basic changes must occur in the fundamental 
decision ·making structures of the University. 
It is only logical that those who live in the 
day.to.day situation resulting from such 
important programs should participate in the 
decision-making iselt. Merely consultative 
committees do not seem to reflect the total 
reality of the situation. It was obvious to the 
ctroup that the latest decision concerning the 
displacement of students in another glaring 
example of administrative action without 
participation by hall statts. 
This group of hall presidents and Rectors 
felt that the following points of action must be 
pursued in the best interests of hall com­
munity are to be preserved: 
Alternate Housing 
1. 
The possibilities of using Brownson Hall, Carroll Hall and the Psychology Building for undergrad housing. 

2. 
The possibilities of using public rooms in the halls for undergrad housing. 

3. 
The possibilities of allocating the ad· ditional funds gained through the over­crowding tor alternate housing. 


B. Ott-Campus Situation 
1. 
A central staff member be appointed to tacil itate an effective ott-campus housing office. 

2. 
A comprehensive list of ott-campus housing available currently must be com. piled and released immediately. 

3. 
A University investigation through this office into rent controls in the South Bend area. 


If the above suggestions cannot be im­plemented, the group felt that it could no longer be responsible tor enacting the University's decisions concerninq their halls. 
The Hall Presidents Council 
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 

Candidates active 
by Jim Gresser term of independent study and a leave 
Staff Reporter of absence program. 
Campaigns for Student Body The Galloway-Batow team did not 
President and Vice President continued actively campaign over the weekend. 
last week~nd, wi~h all the tickets except Wojcieszek-Wordal spent the 
one workmg actively. weekend stressing their platform 
The Kubik-Mason campaign continued theme of "Opening the Door to Student 
with emphasis placed on the present housing situation. They plan to write a letter to the administration, trustees, alumni clubs and parents of Juniors a.nd .sophomores concerning the sttuatmn. They also plan a one-day boycott of classes to canvass South Bend for off-campus housing. 
The Mastro-Fenten campaign also stressed the housing problem and their six-point plan to provide on-campus housing for all students who want it. 
The~  feel  that  there  ar~  f~cilities  
available an~  th~t  there  IS  time  to  
handle the s1tuat10n. .  .  

.Th~ Carlson-Kastehc campa1gn was h1ghhghted by a discussion by Vice Presidentiaal candidate Tom Kastelic in Holy Cross Hall proposing a January Government." They also stressed th:e need for increased social interaction among Notre Dame • students and supported the idea of a campus' mall. 
Clarke-Singleton were very active over the weekend, repeating their promise to place most of the authority of student government in the hands of the Hall Presidents Council and to resign from their own offices by April 15. 
Gonzalez-Burke spent most of the weekend in the North Quad discussinng student alumni relationships, im­proving academic life, renovating the social facilities on campus, offering the students free legal services and providing off-campus services. ' 
(continued on page 2) 

To become female dorm in '74 
Lyons to be new home lor Farley, BP junior class 
by ·steven Carr 
and Joseph Abell 
Staff Reporters 
The decision to move all Farley and Breen­Phillips seniors-to-be to Lyons for next year was announced Friday night in a letter to hall rectors and staffs from Acting Vice-President for Student Affairs Philip Faccenda. Fac­cenda is expected to formally announce that Lyons Hall will become a women's residence hall in September of 1974 today. 
The decision was made by Faccenda in conjunction with a series of committees representing the rectors, hall presidents and the Student Life Council. Faccenda met with these committees once a week for a month to find a solution to the current problem of campus residency. 
The letter also enumerated other decisions by Faccenda and the committees. These decisions included an abolishment of the Grade Point Average (GPAl as a means of room selection, an exemption of sophomores from hall quotas, placement of Farley and Breen-Phillips residents on an equal basis as the residents of the hall to which they will be moving, and a declaration that the means for selecting reserved space for the juniors-to-be and seniors-to-be must be approved by at least two-thirds of the hall residents. 
The number of student moving off-campus or leaving the university usually approaches the number of incoming freshmen Faccenda cited. He said that it was hoped' that those withdrawing or moving off campus would identify themselves so that beds could be pro~ided for those students definitely wishing to hveon campus. Since many are playing it safe. keeping options open, few have sought recognition. For this reason, hall quotas had to be set. 
"Hopefully once the options have been 1:educed. we can get to work providing beds lor every student that really wants to live on campus next year. It is interesting in this regard that we have at the moment sixty­eight empty beds on campus," Faccenda commented. 
Faccenda also noted that all possible alternatives had been explored so that quotas might be avoided. This included "renting residence facilities from our neighboring institutions, buying mobile home villages and renting downtown hotels." These proposals he said. could not be met. ' 
The amendments in Faccenda's letter may not be permanent. 
"I must say that I do not believe that the argu!"lle~ts offered thus far are sufficiently convmcmg when balanced against proven results from the former system. However, within the spirit of experimentation I am willing to make these changes for one year to see if, in fact, improvements are achieved " he said. ' 
The statistics of beds available in the chart to the right are numbers designated by Fr. James Riehle, Director of Housing. in letters attached to Acting Vice President fOI' Student Affairs Philip Ftzc­cenda's letter. Rooms to be vacated are figures produced when Fr. Riehle's bed quotas are compared with current hall enrollment. 

Class designations are tor school year 1973.74; i.e., ",seniors" are seniors.to-be. 
Rooms Class Beds Available to be vacated 
Alumni Seniors 32 44 Juniors 67 18 Sophomores 0 Freshmen 85 BP-Farley 21 
Cavanaugh Seniors 22 36 Juniors 56 9 Sophomores 65 0 Freshmen 75 BP-Farley 24 
Dillon Seniors 40 48 Juniors 77 9 Sophomores 110 0 Freshmen 110 BP-Farley 22 
Fisher Seniors 19 28 Juniors 32 11 Sophomores 43 0 Freshmen 55 BP-Farley 33 
Flanner Seniors 62 Juniors 100 ~112 Sophomores 175 Freshmen 160 BP-Farley 31 
Grace Seniors 59 89 Juniors 117 29 Sophomores 159 0 Freshmen 160 BP-Farley 1S 
and Old College 22 
Holy Cross Seniors 16 24 Juniors 42 10 Sophomores 63 0 Freshmen 50 BP Farley 0 
Howard Seniors 19 NA Juniors 14 NA Sophomores 29 0 Freshmen 55 BP-Farley 23 
,
Keenan 

Seniors 29 ~7 Juniors 66 16 Sophomores NA 0 Freshmen 95 BP·Farley 17 
j 

Lyons Seniors 22 55 Juniors 42 52 Sophomores 65 0 
1

Freshmen 0 BP-Farley 97 
Morrissey (The rector refused to release figures.) 
~ 
Pangborn Seniors 

20 30 (approx) Juniors 
62 10 (approx) 56

Sophomores 0 
65
Freshmen 
11
BP-Farley 
l 
St. Ed's 
15 
22 36 
Seniors 

12 Sophomores 38 0 
Juniors 
l
40
Freshmen 
0
BP-Farley 
Sorin 
22 NA
Seniors 
33 NA
Juniors 33 (approx)

Sophomores 0 
so
Freshmen 
23
BP-Farley 

Stanford (Figures not available.) 
Zahm Seniors 24 
37 

Juniors 56 
14 Sophomores 94 
0 

Freshmen 70 BP Farley 0 

Monday, February 26, 1973 

warld briefs 
(c The New York Times) 
Paris--Secretary of State William P. Rogers began private talks Sunday night in Paris with foreign minister Chi Peng-Ei of China on settling each country's financial claims against the other and set up a meeting later this week with foreign minister Andrei A. Gromyko of the Soviet Union. 
Los Angeles--American officials believe that the list of prisoners given by communist forcesin Indochina might not be complete. They are being very cautious, and do not want to raise false hopes among the families of more than 1 300 men whose fate is still unknown. Meanwhile, voices of Vital America <VIVA) which has distributed 5 million prisoner of war bracelets, has begun a new crusade to "alert the American people that many of our men known to be prisoners are not being returned home." 
New York--Negotiators for baseball's 24 club owners concluded a three-year agreement with their players' representatives and ordered the immediate opening of spring training camps, some of which had been scheduled to open Feb. 14. The settlement of the basic agreement and benefit plan came after five months of talks and provided for the arbitration of individual player salaries for the first in baseball history. 

an campu• today 
7: 30p.m.--dulpicate  bridge,  
students  and  faculty  welcome,  
Iafortune rathskellar.  

10:30 p.m.--lecture, prof. charles rice,·coalition for the human life amendment, grace pit. 
lit nd-•mc 
Lafortune renovation center opens 
R. Thomas Thues Staff Reporter 
LaFortune Student Center has been known as the graveyard of social activity on campus for many boring years. Student intere~t has been limited to a burger m the Huddle and an occasional game of poolIin the basement: . . 
I 
A new philosophy IS growmg m Architecture and taking rapid form in the LaFortune Renovation project. Ken Knieval, Roxanne, .Jabbra. and Ron Blitch have set up a renovation headquarters in the LaFortune ball room which will be the site of drafting and student idea exchange. These three architecture students have adopted the philosophy that cc.mpus buildings ean be made more "open and alive." To this end Brother Francis .J. Gorch, LaFortune building manager, has allowed the Henovation Committee to set up wMking headquarters in the building.~ The object of setting up displays 
r 
Candidates active 
(cont1nued from page 1) 
Brennan-Tyrrell continued their campaign in lspite of the fact that 
Tvrrell was almost removed from 
the ticket. The problem stemmed 
from some of his supporters 
discovering that Tyrrell has suf­
fered from a previous history of 
nose-bleeds. 
The Weselowski-Angeluzzi ticket 
did little campaigning over the 
wPekend except for some informal 
eleclioneerig in the South Dining 
llall. They declined from "for­
malized" campaigning because 
they didn't want to repeat what 
othPr candidates were saying. 
l\1osketwitz-Clemency continued 
their campaign emphasizing the 
need for increased social op­
portunities for the studets. TheY. 
suggested the establishment of a 
student bar in Michigan, as a 
substitue for the LaFortune 
Student Center during its 
renovation. 
Hess-Davis campaigned over the 
weeknd. repeating their pronise to 
SPECIAL WEEKEND ROOM RATES FOR NOTRE DAME PARENTS OR VISITORS 
$6.95 $8,95
Single occupancy Double occupancy. 
No Notre Dame identification required, just mention this \ladl Effective any Fri., Sat. or Sun. thru June 15th, 1973 except for the weekend of May 18th. 
HICKORY INN MOTEL 
50520 U.S. 31 North 
South Bend, Indiana 46635 
(219) 272-7555 

3 miles North of the Tollroad. 
Cable T.V., Air Cond .• Phones Send this ad to your Parents. 
g1ve more funds to the Hall Presidents Council and making the HPC Ct..1irman a Cabinet member. while maintaining a strong central student association. They also expressed support for a student food co-op, student lobby to lower the age of majority in Indiana, and the placement of a student on the Board of Trustees. 
Nollet and Goetz also cam­paigned actively in support of their "Five Year Plan" for university change and development. Speaking before small groups in dorms, Nellet called for more foresight in picking female dorms, open parietals, and renovation of LaFortune. 
Sorge-Manigault campaigned actively, stressing the advantages of an incorporated student body. Under their program, they see the possibility for increased funding and much resultant improvements from that funding. (More detailed campaign analysis on pp. 6-7. l in the actual working environment is to activate student interest and bring the architects closer to the project itself. Three goals of the project, as outlined by Ken Kenievel. are to provide a show case of student ideas, show the Trustees that there can be active interest in LaFortune, and create a prototype for Architectural Education. 
The actual physical changes in the · building cannot make LaFortune an "open and alive" student center. To compliment the rebuilding, a system of program changes will be activated. With the building of porches and open ac­cess to the patio, large activities will be made possible. Student I.D. cards used for cokes and concerts is all part of the"open and alive" philosophy. 
The reason that Dr. Ambrose T. Richardson, chairman of the Hennv;o~ lion Project, initiated the project was not to display the natural beauty of LaFortune, but to enhance its usefulness. 
It is the feeling of the Renovation 
Committee that the individual halls do not promote the activities necessary to make Notre Dame a healthy social community. The ideas being considered for the project are compiled and preliminary drafting is now . Now is the time for 
LaFortune renovation headquarters: the site of drafting and student idea exchange. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per 
•semester ($14 per year) from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class 
,postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. .J6556. 

Muscular Dystrophy Drive 
sponsored by Knights of Columbus 

February 26 • March 3 

VOLUNTEERS NEEDED 
Anyone Interested in Helping Please Call John Conlon at 1189 Prizes To Top Collectors 
An April dead-line has been established for University Vice­President Dr. Philip Faccenda's introduction of renovation ideas to the Trustees. Until that time the renovation display headquarters will be located in LaFortune. The design of the headquarters will be constantly changing to show the potential that LaFortune affords. 
Through active student interest and administration support LaFortune may soon become the place to go on weekends. That change is not in the hands of the architects. however. It is in the hands of student interest. 


Saeko lchinohe and 
Feb. 21· 8 p.m.  Company  
O'Laughlin Aud.  
·'#)..  
CAC  
Nat'l Bank,  
Pandora's,  

Jennifer's 

$3, CAC Dance & Drama patrons Free 
NOTRE DAME 
TAILOR SHOP 

2nd floor Band Building (opposite Huddle entrance) 
Service Hours 8-12 
12:30-4 

Monday thru Friday 
Alterations and repairs by professional tailors 
Reasonable Rates 
Farley honors residents 
by Joseph Abell In what was called the last Hall banquet, residents of Farley Hall honored Richard "Ders" Anderson and Bob Kelley and presented awards to various administrators, including University President Fr. Hesburgh, in Stepan Center Saturday night. Attended by University officials Hesburgh, Fr. James Shilts, Director of Student Services and l<'arley Hall rector, Fr. William Toohey, Director of Campus Ministry, and Dr. Robert Ackerman. assistant to the Vice­President for Student Affairs, the banquet was sponsored by the Farley Striders and Farley Cyclers clubs. Anderson and Kelley, both residents of Farley and involved in 
Bob Kelly (left) and Rick "Ders" Farley.. (Staff photo by Joseph

hall social activities for many 
Anderson (right) thank Pop Abell)

years. were honored by a "This Is he did in the role of the mythicalYour Life" sketch. in which their senior Economics major, ap­Pop Farley.
parents were flown in and brought peared quite surprised at the Awards were also presented toonstage, and a slide show of their presentation, for each had planned 
various administrators and

pre-Notre Dame years. the surprise for the other. Each members of Farley Hall staff.
Anderson. a sixth year Ar­had previously contacted junior Among the awards were a specialchitecture student, and Kelly, a John Kloos to host the event, which 
citation to Shilts in the form of an engraved silver plate inscribed "To the Reverend James Shilts from the men of Farley Hall. Shalom. Rabbi." 
Other awards were a series of "Golden Tennie Awards" presented by the "Them Poem Singers" consisting of four members of Farley Hall. Among the awards were one to Fr. Hesburgh for "Best Director in C'oeduca tiona! Expansion:" one to Fr. James Burchaell, for "Best Supporting Actor in an Ad­ministrative Runaround," an award accepted by Hesburgh in Burchaell's absence: and to Farley Hall RA Mike Melody and Anderson and Kelley. 
The banquet was followed by a square dance. a special Mass in Farley Chapel and a reception in 

The "Golden Tennie A wards" 
"Pop Farley's" in Farley

given out at Saturday's Farley 
basement. 



Life coalition announces plans 
by Leo Buchignani Plans call for meetings in each Passage of the Amendment, 
StaJ.f Reporter hall lwfore Wednesday. March 7, \\'hich is the focus of the Coalition's 
beginning with a 10:30 Monday efforts. would guarantee the right 

Notre Dame's recently night gathering for· Grace and to life from the moment of con­organized Student Coalition for the Flanner residents in the Grace ception. forbidding such things as !Iuman Life Amendment has conversation pit where Dr. Charles abortion. euthanasia. and any such completed its first phase of ac-E. Hice of the Notre Dame Law state-ordered killings of human tivity.and has announced plans for School will speak. lwings without due process and tlw coming weeks. Each dorm meeting is to take t•qual protection of the laws. 
The rapidly growing coalition place between 9 and 11 p.m. on a In addition. the Student Coalition has held a series of educational \n•eknight. and will feature one or for the Human Life Amendment nwetings with distinguished pro-t\\'o knowledgeable speakers who announced its far-ranging future life speakers. initiated a fund-\\'ill give brief outlines of the plans. Every ND-SMC student will raising drive. and begun to Supreme Court decision on be contacted by the end of the distribute pro-life literature to abortion. the Human Life semester in a search for sup­\'arious groups, including the Amendment. and the purpose of porters who will become part of a p:uests at the Junior Parents the Student Coalition for the dorm-by-dorm. floor-by-floor Dinnt•r. lluman Life Amendment. organization on campus.
~~----------------------~~~ 
INCORPORATE! Don't Let The Boogiemen 
Scare You 

An Answer to the Gross Misrepresentations 
1. .. THE CORPORATION WILL BE NON-PROFIT AND CONTROLLED BY STUDENT ELECTIONS. 
2... THE CORPORATION WILL BE TAX-EXEMPT, THERE IS NO DANGER OF LOSING TAX-EXEMPTION THROUGH INDIVIDUAL STUDENT POLITICAL INVOLVEMENT (NO 48 percent tax) 
3. THE CORPORATION IS ONLY LIABLE TO SUITS BROUGHT AGAINST ITS BUSINESS FUNCTIONS, AND CAN THEREFORE TAKE OUT LIABILITY INSURANCE 
"More than ;ust presenting the Problems. We ·re finding the Answers... 
SORGE • MANIGAULT 
Monday, February 26, 1973 the observer 
Senior Bar 
Now accepting resumes for next year's 
manager. Deliver at bar Wed., Thurs.,· 
or Fri. after 7:OOpm. 

Deadline: March 2. Info. 283-7521 
-----------------------------------------~ 


1
, 
~ 

It sure would be great to have all the time you need for all the things you like to do. And If your reading work load is keeping you from some of the finer things, here's an impor· tant suggestion. Evelyn Wood Reading Dynamics will show you how to read 3 to 10 times faster with equal or better com­prehension. Once you've mastered Evelyn Wood's method, your reading and studying time will be drastically reduced. You'll know some important secrets of test-taking and be able to keep up better with your studies • as well as those social activities you're missing now. Time -that's what it's all about. Do something about it now. 
ATTEND A FREE SPEED READING LESSON INCREASE YOUR READING SPEED 50 TO 100% ON THE SPOT 
h-ODA Y and TOMMORROW at 6 and 8 pm Center For Continuing Education Notre DamA Avenue ~ Evelyn w;;;;rRoom 202 Reading Dynamics Institute 
"50 -100% on the spot" 

THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 

John Abowd  Dan Thornton  
Editor-in-Chief  NEWS: 283·1715  Business Manager  
EDITORIALS: 283-8661  
Don Ruane  BUSINESS: 283-7471  Joe Butler  
Executive Editor  Advertising Manager  

February 26, 1973 
February blues: no endorsement 


The Student Body Presidential cam­paign currently in progress points to the complete decay of the electoral process at Notre Dame. There is not a single candidate who has done sufficient preparation to warrant an outright en­dorsement. 
There used to be a time when potential SBP's were more versed in the par­ticulars of the issues they raised. For 
i..' good reason. In a blunt head-on cam­paign between two or three knowledgeable candidates no one could expect to get away with what amounts to
·" 
I an unchallenged lie or misrepresen­tation. It was part of the process that the longer the dialogue raged the closer to the truth the arguments got. And there was some concern for ".the truth." This concern stemmed .lrom the constant need to point out real dif­ferences between the candidates. Now the only concern is with collecting enough votes to get i'lto the runoff. Candidates can get b~· with generally poor preparation on their main ideas. For instance, in our interviews, several of the tickets which claimed to be ex­tremely concerned with the problem of forcing students off-campus did not know how many beds existed on campus or the projected enrollment for the 1973-74 school year. Seven tickets, as you can see from the responses on the next page, chose not to reveal how they would allot the Student government funds. Two other tickets could not discuss the budget because of structural changes they have proposed. In past election this just wouldn't happen. It does not mean that a candidate who doesn't want to talk about the SG budget is necessarily inferior; it means that the bounds of the campaign have changed and a candidate doesn't have to address himself to some serious questions to be considered a serious candidate. The act of not endorsing a candidate in the general election is neither 1) an ad­mission that such an endorsement con­stitutes a breach of journalistic neutrality nor 2) a renegging of a legitimate newspaper function of sorting the truth out of the garbage. First, in a field of 13 candidates when no single ticket shows outstanding preparation, it doesn't really matter whose position is least inaccurate. Enough of each ticket's campaign rhetoric has graced these pages for any 
SBP Candidates reply to Observer questions 
interested party to make some choice. No compelling reason has come forward for any particular choice. It would be a breach of honesty to force a recom­mendation out of this quagmire. 
However, a good case can be made that it is a newspaper's responsibility to sort out the available information and make a choice just as each voter must. If something important was at stake such an argument would hold some weight. 
The telling fact is that the decisions 
which  will  be  made  during  the  ad­ 
ministration  of  the  next  SBP  will  be  
based  on  straightforward  factual  

analysis. Viable student input to these decisions will have to be well versed in the parameters of the decision process. No amount of burdgeoning platform plank on platform plank will substitute for this analysis. The time for simplistic reasoning has ended. In order to best serve the interests of the student body, whichever ticket is elected will have to do some homework. 
And if the newly-elected SBP is not inclined to do the homework it won't matter much anyway. Nearly every issue raised in the campaign has been, or currently is, under investigation by a group with direct access to ad­ministrative policy makers. If the results of this work go unrewarded it is 
plain naivete to presume that the banner 
of "Student Government" will bring 
greater success. 
In short, this election is no more the cure-all that any of its predecessors were. There is no substitute for in­telligent student input but there is no way to guarantee it, least of all in an electoral process. 
The Editorial Board 
llfllllllllllllllllltllllllllltiiiiiHIIIItlllfllftlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll. 
issue staff 
Night Editor--Marlene Zloza Ass't Night Editor--Chris Sullivan Layout--A! Rutherford, Kathy Kelly Day Editor--Tom Bornholdt Copy Editors--Ed Ellis, Mike O'Hare Election Central--Jim Gresser Sports Night Editor--Tom McKenney Typists -Rob Barringer, Harry Chung, 
Mary Romer, Steve Roper, Dennis 
Anastasoff Hal Operator--Phil Orscheln Pictureman--Jerome Phillips Night Controller--David Rust 
Happy Birthday Bob 
IIUIIUUIIIRIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIHUUIIIUIHIHIIIIIIUIIUIII'IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHO 


The Questions 

1 l How will you apportion the 586,000 student government budget? 
2) Who will fill your major appointed 
positions·? Executive Coordinator Academics Hall life Student Union Judicial 

3) How much will you spend on this campaign? 
4) Are you a "serious candidate?" If so why? 
5) Evaluate this year's student govern­ment and note any differences that will exist between your administration and the present one. 
6) Do you consider the Board of Com­missioners a viable form of student government? Would you continue it? 
7) Would you make any substantive changes in the role of the Hall Presidents Council? 
8) Who do you consider the most important Notre Dame administrator with whom you will have to deal? 
9) Evaluate the performance of the Student Life council in general and on the issue of campus housing. Would you abolish the SLC? 
10) Do you favor forcing students to live off-campus or female students to live on campus? 
11 l Do you feel Notre Dame has pursued coeducation properly? .What, if anything, would you change? 
12) Do you have a specific proposal for security? If so, what? 
13) Do you favor extending the pass-fail option? 
14) Do you favor starting the academic year before Labor Day? 
15) You should have: asked us;---­We would have answered: 
Gonzalez-Burke 

1) Since the money does come from the students, we favor apportioning half of the sum to the student union, the other half would be split between Student Gov't and the various campus organizations: 
SVRe! 1'10H's 
OH, J"IJ51 /J 
PECIP£P 10 
CIJU MltKM.fl/?
U5rOF'/'fl£
WE~"" OF

nc? IJOOP1V5 fJ 
/3UY fJ!.fiPfJRS,
Her, HJH!lr'.s -rHI/1/65 J:
COIJR~ VOO 
urru-aor_ 
rH/5, 60TT/J PO 
8/Jit-/J CR/4
K/110/JJ f'JJ {3001/.

l r;o/JAr!I£R? 11~0 We'o 
'THOR? BeFORe THe 
6&T 60PFIJT#&R.
Be J)£/AGHrEo! r KNew 
yov 

~ . UK!! yo() To 
urru rvtr£ 
I
I 
\
IIJOtJttJAI'r 
lifl!<lllc5.
I !J£ ()()f? H!IN! 
rlltt-M£
\ 
I
I 

$43,000 -Student Union; $15,000---Student '12. . Yes, a detex system applied in all 
Gov't; $ $28,000---organizations.  halls  and  a  campaign  with  the  idea  of  
2)  We  will  solicit applications  for  these  "lock your door" this idea is stat ed more  
various positions.  specifically in our platform.  
3) Approximately \75.  13. Yes.  

4) We are serious. The responsibilities of 14. No. the office, including the apportionment of 15. No answer. 
$86,000, demand a serious approach. 

5) Our main point is coordination between the efforts of Student Gov'!, the SLC, and the HPC. Since the SBP-SBVP already serve on the SLC, there is a link for coordination between these two bodies. We would propose that the HPC Chairman be made a member of the Student Gov't cabinet thereby insuring greater coor. dination between Student Gov't and the HPC. 
6) We feel that the Board of Commissioners is a viable form of government if it is filled with responsible people. We would con­tinue il because it allows for more ex­tensive representation. 
7) In order to foster :Closer communication between the HPC and Student Gov'l we would give the HPC chairman a seat on the Student Gov't cabinet. (The reasoning behind this proposed change is to provide better coordination of the efforts between HPC and Student Gov't.J 
8) To begin with, we feel that Fr. Burt­chaell is the ultimate answer to our questions. However, we understand that the various other administrators serving in other positions will also have to be dealt with. 
9)The major issue facing the SLC this year has been campus housing. One must first consider !hal their power is mostly limited to making recommendations. They in­vesligated thoroughly the facilities and estimated cost of renovation per hall. On the basis of this, they made their choices. The recently conducted meeting on minority problems is a positive step in the direction of a more open awareness of minority rights. We would continue the SLC because of its extensive com­munication between students, faculty, and 
administration. 

10)We are opposed lo forcing students off­
campus and to forc.ng female students to live on campus. 
11) In the past Notre Dame erred in not announcing the female dorms V"ith enough advance time. The situation appears to be rectifying itself now, however. 
12) we feel campus security lies primarily with the students. However, with the future SLC hearing on security, we would be open to any suggestions or recom­mendations made by them. 
13) .The option is open to all non-major courses, one course per semester. Since it is an option, we feel that it might be ex­tended to 2 non-major courses per semester. However, the student should be informed how this pass-fail option will affect his chances of entering graduate school. 
14) we are against starting the academic year before Labor Day. 
15) No answer. 
Galloway-Batow 

1. 
No answer. 


2. 
Executive coordinators Joe Meyer, Steve Tierney Academics .. Fred Moreno 


Hall life .. Fred Baronowski Student Union .. Mike Hess Judicial --Rick Rawson 

J. A!much time as is necessary to publicize the four points and as much time as the voters want. 
4. Yes, we believe we have tangible ideas that we can accomplish. Our platform is narrow but in its narrowness is strength 
and effectiveness. 

5. 
1 would hesitate to criticize the past 

student government because apathy and pre set images are tough to overcome. About our administration, all 1 can say is we can accomplish the four points.

6. 
No answer. 


7. 
Yes. 1would eliminate'·he entities of SBP 


and the HPC. They would deal directly with each other. 
B. For our own specific platform it would be Fr. Riehle director of campus housing. Also Fr. Burtchaell because of his dominate effect on student life. 
9. 
No answer. 


10. 
No and no, but the realities of the situation must be taken into account. Is it possible to have co-education and no forced off campus housing? 

11. 
Yes. but perhaps too rapidly and with lack of concern for student feelings. 


The questions we have not answered we either feel aren't relevant to our campaign or are issues that would need further study on our parts. 
Brennen-Tyrell 

1. 
An all expense paid one way trip for the entire student body to Elkhart. 

2. 
Execu!ive coordinator . Charles Chaplain Academics .. Eric Bottcher Hall life Mary J. Wanna Student Union ·· Rob Bery Judicial . Otto Kerner 

3. 
$8.76 for 12 cans of Right Guard to deodorize !he olher candidates. 

4. 
Is this a serious election? 

5. 
They both add up to 0. 

6. 
We're Bored of Commissioners. 

7. 
Limit its membership to 0-Ben.ie. 


8. 
Mr. George Gipp, proprietor of Washington Hall. 

9. 
We favor s!udent life; its the council thai worries us. 


10. A definitive maybe. 

11. 
Admit fewer hermaphrodites. 

12. 
no answer. 


13. 
Yes dropping the pass of the option. 

14. 
Yes. as well as ending it the day after Labor Day. 

15. 
What is !he meaning of life. 



Wojcieszek-Wordal 
To the editors of the Observer: 

We have noted with interest and puz­zlement your questionnaire. It's usefulness, if any, eludes us. We have also receiver! your gracious offer to grant us an audience in order to more closely evaluate our candidacy. Regretfully, we must hUIT.•Jrv ::lecline both. Frankly, we aren'l cspe ·laloy concerned with what you think of us'. ~he only endorsement we are seeking is the one to be given on February 
77. by the s!udents of this university. We have the utmost confidence in the ability of our fellow sludents to judge us on our owr merits, without the prodding of any would­be campus kingmakers. 
Yours in Notre Dame, 
Alice Wojcieszek 
Blake Wordal 

Monday, February 26, 1973 the observer 
The Candidates reply to the Observer survey 

Moskowitz­Ciemency 
Association, making the HPC and its Chairman a vital part of. but not a 

eplace ent for the Student 1 l We're not going !o bother ourselves with ~ssociat~n. 6 ) no an;wer. budget conSideratiOnS now. However' we 7) y ., ld b t f th St d t 
are very concerned with the O.C. office, cs, '. wou e a par 0. e u en and a lack of funds underlies this, we shall Assoc1at•on. The H~C Ch?•rman ~ou~d direct funds 1 r vide for am re hel 1 1 become a cabtnet off1cer, w1th an offtce m
0 P 0 0 
. P u La Fortune, as well as use of all ~lfflce. Association facilities. The HPC would no answer· have three members on the budget
3) $30 & $15 a_llotted. . committee, which would control at:
4l We are senous candidates, ?ecause we Association appropriations. These step• firmly bei•eve'" the expenent•ai value of would give the HPC a direct input in the our proposed 4-1-4, wmter term January ilSSociation, as well as the means t month of mdep_endent study· . . finance its activities, without directing th~ 5)They d•d a ~u•et and app~rent~y eff•c•ent Hall Presidents away from their ma(or 10b. We env•sage a contmuat1on of !he concerns: the halls. same, emphaSIZing our role as policy Sl Dr. Philip Faccenda and Dr< Robert makers. Ackerman. •6l Yes; yes. l The SLC is a good, though often ignored 
7) No. body which could really make its presence 
professional security force on campus. We: Art, Advertising, Economlcsl he should' be done for anh one group to be able able to feel that each hall should establish its own-not have to risk a zero being average into jlccomplish it all. security system, staffed by residents of the his G.P.A. if he is unable to succeed when. All Notre Dame administrators with hall. · he has no comparative reward if he does w we will have to deal are important 
13) We would like to see the Arts an~' (There is no grade averaged in if the becau hey can all make decisions Letters Council proposal that the option b~ student finds an excellent aptitude in that concernin e students. The important extended well into the semester, rather· area). thing is to wo~ with the administra,tion than in just the first few weeks. I ·,4) No. It would conflict with working. with respect b'il1-.. without fear while 
14) Are you kidding? students who for one reason or other may: demanding equal respect in return. 15)Should Student Government as it exists need the whole summer to complete their '· The air of co-operation that has be abolished? jobs (examples being: Head start surrounded the SLC this year has been No, for the following reasons: , teachers, resort area occupations, etc., certainly refreshing though rather dull. 
--The Hall Presidents could get so bogged' etc.) down with campus-wide issues (LaFor-15) ??? tune Renovation, Student Union, etc.) that their duties in the halls would suffer, or --The Presidents, in protecting hall in-k terests (and rightly sol could lose sight of Kubi -Mason the need tor campus-wide interests (waaaaaaaLaFortune, the Union, Social Commission, etc.) 1 we favor increasin9,t1ie budget of the ---The one-fifth of the student body livinr:i Notre Dame StudP.Pf'"'Union to at least off-campus would suffer from under: $35,000 _ $40, . The Student Union representation, as well as lack of attention provides n y all of the academic, to their needs. cultural, ciaI activities, and student 
--The people controlling all activities servicj)!f.' Financial assistance will be would not have been elected by the student given to any hall which desires to provide body, ie, the HPC Chairman and the ior the community a casual environment Executive Coordinator. Surely the where people can enjoy one another. students should be able to choose their Money will be provided for a Cultural representatives. .Mnorities House, inclusive rather than 15al What about incorporation? . exclusive in nature. A certain portion, will We're glad you asked. Whatever benefit (according to recent tradition) be returned that might be gained by incorporation to the halls, but, a proportional amount 

The SLC has finally reached a stage of maturity where the possibilities for ac­complishment are tremendous. Hopefully this will continue ·into next year. Un­fortunately the issue of campus housing has been handled rather poorly with little regard tor human feelings. Abolishing the SLC is absurd. 
10. Notre Dame is essentially a residential community. It was designed as one. It is advertised as one. That is it's greatest s_trength. Students should not b: f~rced to lrve off campus and hopefully th1s 1s only a temporary condition. However~ we just take steps to prevent the destruct•on of our life style. This may mean reducing the number of male freshmen being enrolled. On the other hand no students should be forced to remain in a living situation which one find~ distasteful. We jus_t put an end to the mult1ple standard when 1t comes to the enforcement of the regulations in the 
would be offset by added problems: must be made available to off campus Student Manual. 
--A corporation car sue (so can non· students in some Iorin. 11. Certainly, some mistakes have been corporate students), but it can also b '2. It would be ludicrous to pre determine he m~d~ i~ our. effort to attain co-education. sued. personnel! for these important positions. Th1s IS rnev1table when one approaches a --The University would probably not allo Every interested member of the com-situation with timidity and Insecurity. a private corporation on campus, and if it. munity must be given equal consideration However, the University could enroll as did, it would probably charge rent for· so that no talented, creative person who many _girls as i! wanted "':'ithou! co­La Fortune, etc. sincerely desires to work for the student cducat•on ever takmg place. It IS the tob of --In order for incorporation to be body is unjustly excluded. So, frankly, we the students to probide the attitudes and economically feasible, it would have to be don't know who will fill those positions and. environment conducive to co-a non-profit organization. However, if that no one is being considered presently. ' education_and assistance to any ha_ll willing corporation attempted to express student 3. $99.19. to organ1ze a permanent env1ronment opinion on political matters (the war, 18 4. 1 am Matt Kubik. 1 am a candidate for! conducive to people meeting one another. 
vear old majority and drinking, etc.) it could lose that ta~'exempt status, and thereby be forced to pay almost half of the student activities fee in taxes. 
Mastro-Fenton 
1. Throughout the Halls and campu~
1
organizations. 
2. These positions will be reorganized. 
on requests from Student Union, clubs, and Different positions will be created. organizations, by a board composed of 3 3. Around $50.00. Hall Presidents, the student Association 4. Yes, very serious and we stand on ou President. Vice-President, and Treasurer, positions. and at lea~t one off-campus rep. 5. No comment. 
2) Ail such positions will be filled only after 6. No! a public call for applications for those 7. We will take it into consideration. positions, and open hearings with all ap-8. Father Theodore Hesburgh. , plicants. 9. Our stand on campus housing is known! 3)' About $90 printing costs, costume ren· It is our basic and primary issue. N tals, and beer costs. comment on SLC. 
4) We are serious insofar as we have an 10. No students should not be forced to liv idea of what we'd like to see ND become, off campus. Female students should hav we have specific proposals toward that the right to decide as males do! end, and we intend to apply both the time' 11. No! Their considerations for dormitorv and the money to accomplish them. Other space were terrible. than that. it's all bread and circuses. 12. No, but considerations are at hand. 
5)Honesty and casualness entered 13. The Universityshoulddecidethis issue La Fortune for the first time in Student They are very capable. Government history with the reign of Bob 14. No!!! 

Kersten. In addition to that openness and. 15. More about forcing undergrads to live low-keyed approach, we intend to make off campus.Carlson-Kastelic Student Government a Student Our six point plan tor housing! 
Sorge-Maniga u It 

l) 
Whose budget? Thatfigure doesn't apply by most of the Student Body. However 8) Fr. t<iehle, and especially Fr. Burt-to an incorporated student government. there have also been several blatant errors chaell. We will be working with and adding to a made by H-man and his crew. This past 9) The SLC has been lax in this matter. .arger resource in a corporate studen year at NDwe witnessed the most flagran~ They have not formulated a program to oody. violation of Student rights in recent. carry us completely through coeducation. 

2) 
The new positions that will be created memory. It is a disgrace to the Notre This lack has been shown most through the 

(5) 
will be representatives of different Dame student body and it's student housing problem. The SLC isn't too bad, student factions that will require qovernment that no formal attempt was but it is not being used as often or to as representation andmust be elected. We do made to protect the rights of the girl in-qreat effectiveness as it could. not wish to eliminate anyone who may valved in the Lewis Hall case. The other 10) Nobody should be forced anywhere; have potentially good ideas from applying area completely ignored by this years University should provide housing, board for the psoitions which already exist by. student government was the area of co-& transportation to force-offs and 


filling them at this premature date. 

S) Father Hesburgh Iell if it should ever quit shuffling papers. 3) $150.00. 
9) We cannot evaluate the SLC. because we To claim that theret;£'s0 need for the SLC Yes. The Student Incorporation is the·
0 

have been absent from N.D. for the past because students " e not as unified" as only 'serious' idea in this campaign. three_ semesters.. When the SLC . was they once were, is t imply that unity is not Whether you're a 'Barkett' politico or a mcet1ng we were •.n Turkey and !Y'orocco necessary at ND. However, as long as Kersten clown student government as it and the farthest th1ng from our mrnds was students have no real input on the ultimate exists now is "Mickey Mouse." Notre Dame and the SLC: decision maker, The Board of Trustees, 5) Sec number 4. 10)Wc favor everyone i1vrng, personally, I he often-arbitrariness of the decision-. 6) Yes, if we had a student government. We oH campus. However, we do not favor and makers and enforcers will continue t ' will not only continue it but give it some will not force people to move_of!·campus. hinder that unity. • real sway in community affairs. The matter of_ grantmg perm•ss1on to. the IOlTo force anyone to live off-campu! 7) Yes, it will be an integral part 01 student-women allowmg them to ~ove off IS _a against their will is a breach of faith by the representation in the corporation. matt~r. not_ cv_e~ to be d1scusse~. Th1s University. Likewise, it seems senseless to Bl We do not wish to compromise the restnct1on 1S nd•culously_d~scru"':'matory. allow graduate students to live in carroll qoodwill of the administration by slightina ll)On lhe part of the_ adm•mstratt_on there and Brownson Halls, when undergrads art• ~nyone with our answer. ­has been poor fores~ght'" choosrng h~ll!:. forced off. carroll and Brownson haVE' 9) The S.L.C. is a very important com for future coed~cat1on. Yet coeducation been undergrad halls in the past, and munication vehicle for the students. 11 has ca'.' only be ach1eved grad':lally, a~though should be again. acted admirably considering the advers~ qu1ckly. We would favor ~ncreasmg the 11 the University f?rces anyone off, it is ~onditions imposed by a powerless, percentage of women adm1tted. . under a moral obllgat1on to better serV€ oointless student government. We can 
12) We would ask for more self-rel1ance on I he oH campus students. we propose a offer the only answer to the off-campi.JS the part of the students. tood coop set up with ND Food Services, a issue. we can't expect the S.L.C. to solve 
13) Yes. We believe that any student should Tenements' Union to seek out and set problems in a power vacuum. bn ~11ownd to ta"e all of h1• cour•e• pa•• · · II t · 
~." ' " , ~ • ,,. standards tor housmg, as we as o 1n-10) Absolutely not! in fact. we have put fall for any semester, but any student vcstigate complaints with legal aid, and forth the only concrete proposals that Should bn allowed to be graded and have 1 ff
~ the establishment of a shutt e to the o · 111iqht prevent such injustices. the qrades recorded for any semester for campus areas of greatest concentration. If 11 ) Our proposals for the betterment of 
all h1S courses. Grades or no grades for any scmestc_r .'hey choose. 
15) Most dcftnltely not. 
15) no answer. 
Clarke-Singleton 
1. 
No answer. · SAC ·11

2. 
Exccut•ve coordinator --of the WI be appointed by the chairman with ap­


proval of the SAC Academics will be appointed by the Exec. Coor. with approval of the SAC Hall life this position will not exist 
the University would not cooperate in campus security. t11csc ventures, we pledge the initiativP 12) Increasing student representation aod and the money to make them possible. communication on the force (i.e., a student 
11) The Administration's approach to co-eel based security force at Rutgers Univer­dorm selection has been anything but sity, Newark. N.J. has been able to reduce 
It · t t d t · · M · 
a cnt1ve o s u en optn1on. a1or crime on campus by 50 percel)t in its first 
problems that exist include: A lack of a year, 1970). We also think-the security 
tommon meeting ground for men and force should clarify its 'priorities (is 
women (A renovated LaFortune woulc' stoppinq violent crimes more important 
serve that purpose); Lack of proper than ticketing cars? What kind of 
recreational facilities for women (Ex-automobile security are we getting for our 
· · h 11 · ·t· · 1 d ·
pans1on of 1nter a act1v1 1es to 1nc u e S50 registration fcc?) SMC would be a help); ' .. The provision 13) The Pass Fail Option should be 
forcinq women to live on campus !The ~hanqed to a pass-no credit option as at 
choice should be the student's, not the Northwestern u. If a student wants to 
University's.) broaden his horizons by taking a course in 
12) We don't favor a Qreatiy expanded which f1c is unsure of his capabilities (i.e., 

Student Body President. Why would' 2. There are presently so many com­anyone want to run for such an office'? mittees in~estigating Pear's Patrol _that it certainly any sensitive person who gets would be s1lly for any recommendations to swept into the realm of student politics just be made until the reports have been have mumbled the question to himself completed. many times. But, why me? Why am 1~ 3. Yes, we favor extension of the pass-fail Matt Kubik, running for an office'?! could: option at least one coursxe per semester. be running for the power. I'm not, though More. important though would be the what little power there is will help me ce~sation of t~e practic~ of counting a innstitute some of my ideas. But power fa1led, pass-fall course ~~. ones G.P.A., alone would not make me run. 1might be rather than merely ·losmg the three on a giant ego trip, mentally seating my credits. importance at the right hand of God. But 4. No. that· would be even more stupid than 5. You should have asked us, "Who'yl'he running tor power. If the office has littif' girl on the poster?" , , . power it now has even less respect. so why e w~ul~ have answered, We ll_te{l you tf am 1, Matt Kubik, fourth year architecture we wm. 
student running for this position'? I am 
· running because I have been a lonely treshman,drunk and sick on a Saturday 
Nollet-Goetz

night with nothing better to do. In running because I've been so horny I'd give anything just to sit and hold a girl's hand,· 
1l With a great deal more emphasis on aid but therewas no place to go to even meet a 
for the off-campus student. <Jirl. I am running because 1haye been toI2) Non-victorious candidates; they have other schools and know that Notre Dame 
shown that they have the necessary ideas. can be better than any of them --and: 
3) $50 at most. 

worse... I'm running because I've had! friends unjustly treated by the Ad-. ministration, and there was nothing that :· could do. Finally, I'm running because I' can also see that Notre dame has an inJ credible spirit. and I have a dream thaf Notre Dame can be a cultural catalyst foh the U.S. Being S.B.P. is not easy. For me especially it would require a great amount of academic sacrifice. But you ask if I'm "serious." I'm dead serious. 
5. There have been several important 
accom pi ishments made this year, esp'ecially the streamlining of the Student 
Government into the Board of Com-m•ss•oners. Unfortunately the result of these accomplishments have yet to be felt 
4) We are serious candidates because we sincerely believe that something can be done to improve Notre Dame. 
5) The student government will act with concern and try to increase its ac­cessibility to the students. Student <Jovernment will also act immediately on a problem, instead of letting it pass on <' conference table. 
6) We would like to continue it, but in this way. We would like to have a ~tudent Government group, with one leader, 
rather than everyone interested in only their own projects. We want ail Student
G overnment to be joined as one. 7l We would call for the addition of an Off-Campus representative. 
1 

education. If we are going to bring an definitely allow men to go off---equal rig-atmosphere of co-education to ND then we hts! must provide environments where people 11) Co-education has been a sporadic series 1 can casually come together. As we have of judgements. Ne would prefer a general ~ said before this is the job of the Studem direction, a definite program, in order to ,. Union. But the union's budget war make clear whatthe University is trying to 1 reduced last year. The Notre Dame. accomplish in this area. , Student Union runs almost all of the 12) They need a new philosophy; they , cultural. soda!, academic and studem should protect us instead of enforcing out-"!. services. If we want N.D. to have a• moded and trivial rules. healthy, active atmosphere then it i~ 13) We would like to see the establishment 1 essential that the Student Union be given il of A-B-C-no credit grades for non-major 1 ccasonable budget. rourses. ..I 
o. We consider the Board of Com 14) No, finding a summer job is tough ~ 
•nissioners an extremdly viable form of ··nough without adding a shortened work student government. This way thE'' period. students running student government arE: 15) no answer. 
l

also the direct representatives of thE· student body to the University through their scats on the SLC. We favor this stream lined form of Student Government. 
(sans the Student Senate). 

7. We can't help but oppose the total 
destruction of Student Government as it -cx1 by ·ng power
·st• plac1 all and
110w • responsibility in the HPC. f'specially we nppose the d'1ssolut1· 0 n of the SLC as has 
,. been propose. The HPC should primarily ljc concerned with different hall life styles ilnd especially the quality of hall life. 
tRo<'bsccallrl';,hdcanfodrpwroapyosslanlswdhei.Cshpehraaltleslycanneebde " Ill. •de into real home-l•'"e commun1't1'es.
" " 

This may include physical changes,
<Iovern mentai changes, and-or soc·lal 
changes. If Notre Dame is to cash in its 
l'osilivc potential then this type of research and experimentation in com­
munity life styles needs to be done. The ~~l No. ~. tudcnt Governments t'ob ·1s to be the W_hat do you think of the Observer?
·' 1 b 1 0 pllf'tector of the rights of all Notre Dame c •ev~ the bserver h~s done an ex­
cellent 10b throughout thiS campaign. If 
students without personal hall bias. It is• people knew the amount of time effort necessary. however, for these two bodies! and yes, soul, that went inio thi~ to work together in a compatible manner. publication, they wouldn't be so quick to We must realize there is just too much to condemn. 
Wesolowski-Angeluzzj 
1l No comment. ll E A dxecutive coordinator---Jim Neff; , ca emics---Mike McQuestion; Hall Life--1
G 0 K corge yraff; Student Union---Bob ~ erstcn; Judiciai---"Mook" Flora.
3) S1 
~) y~;5 · 

Sl No comment. ) 1 ~) ~~~No. , 
9) 8) o N0 tcomment.t ~
d' 
us an •ng.
10) No. 
11) N 
.. 
o.
12 ) 
Hot line lor off-campus students.
13) Yes ·
1 



the observer Monday, February 26, 1973 
Candidacy jeopardized 
South Quadtoured
Tyrrell secrets exposed 
Chicago over the weekend to --petition that the engineering 

by Wojcieszek
by Maria Gallagher 
"check out the cages we're going department offer a course in fluid

St. Mary's Editor 
vacated space mto a youth hostel.
to put the students in after,we're dynamics at the Senior Bar. 
by Marlene Zloza

--procuring the Goodrich blimp Tlwy daim this would alleviate the <>lected." Tyrrell reported. When
Student Body President and Staff Reporter problems by
asked why this was not included in for all interhall games encountered many
Vice-president contenders Jim 
the original platform, he replied, --moving the bookstore from its Concentrating on door-to-door students having overnight or
"Zt>ro" Brennan and Pat "Red­to present site to canvassing. SBP candidate Alice \l'l'ekend guests.
"W<> like surprise people." the tailor shop toman" Tyrrell announced last night make room for a McDonald's " Wnjcieszek and running-mate Concerning hall rules, theythat Tyrrell was almost removed 

However. he assured students that Blake Wordal continued cam­advocate autonomy regarding
--creation of a 'Ministry_ of

from the ticket this weekend. 
"We want to make them as con­paigning over the weekend with parietals and part:es within the
Nothingness' to "provide for all the 
venient and comfortable as their theme of "opening the door to ha lis. 

Tvrrell. a senior from Lyons zeros on campus" Student Government."
possible." HPgarding coeducation, the 
llal't. disclosed that some sup­
--support installation of artjficial Stressing their platform issues Wojcieszek-Wordal platformporters accidently discovered Tyrrell himself did no cam-turf for the quads, and wall-to-wall and answering questions, both states. "there should be neither that six years ago he had un­paigning over the weekend, "in the O'Shag carpeting candiates focused attention on special privileges nor restrictions dergone. handkerchief treatments true spirit of our platform." . ht t" 1 South Quad dorms Sunday night. for the coeds."
--a IO::lo"1tg s ou ·rue; con-

for repeated nosebleeds. In the area of social life, both !\bout off-campus problems, the
When asked how they would comitant with a 12:00"girls out': rule 

Pmphasized the feasibility of a new SBP hopeful supports a possibleAlthough this caused a distur­spend the $15.40 credit allotted student union that could be much shuttle bus system for somethem at campus press by student --naming Unviersity Provost andbance of sorts in the Brennan­morP of a campus social center. heavily populated areas. "We have ~overnment. Tyrrell said an all-noted gourmet James T. Burt­Tyrrl'll camp. Brennan admitted Wojcieszek suggested the
expense paid trip to Elkhart for the chaell head of the campus food con­an off-campus lounge in Walsh to 
that he "could not in good con­struction of a campus mall, which tt·v and make those women feel 
science release Redman from the student body would be organized if services could house a restaurant, movie m'ore a part of the campus life and because they are elected.
ticket now. student Brennan and Tyrrell have no house. laundromat. grocery store I think things like that are very
government needs some new blood Since several of the twenty-. definite future campaign plans, and other conveniences. "I think important." she explained.
anyway." Brennan supplemented 
seven planks in the ticket were hut Tyrrell said "Maybe we'll do that is one of the best things that Hegarding academic affairs, the this statement by saying that he omitted from the article in something tomorrow night if we could happen here." she stated. Wojcieszek-Wordal platform
supported his running mate The also suggests six steps
zero Friday's Observer due to space don't have too much homework." candidates endorsed that will help 
per cent. limitations. Tyrrell reiterated moving student offices from "the academics of the University In campaign action, Brennan them for those students who might !\ rally is tentatively scheduled LaFortune to the Psychology kePp pace with the times." went to the Brookfield Zoo in not be: tonight at 6::~0 outside Fisher Hall.· Building and transferring the l<'irst is a grading system change to !\. B. C. and Unsatisfactory. This policy. which would keep the tr out of the GP!\, asserts that "if ~·ou're good enough to get in,
Sorge repeats plea: Incorporate
\ ~·ou're good enough to stay." 
That second point would expand by Mary Janca Sorge emphasized that the forced off -campus, the student and secure adequate housing." the pass-fail option to two courses Staff Reporter student corporation is interested in corporation can confront the ad­"The only way Student Govern­per semester beginning in the While stressing that student working with the Administration ministration. Sorge continued. ment would really change," said sophomore year. Also. the pass-fail Citing Boston· College as an Sorge. "would be that we would option may be added or dropped
incorporation provides the most and not against it. 
example. he said, "There 1000 have to create a Budget Com­anytime before the final.
a moveme­influencing university policy nt." Sorge explained. "What we students were forced off-campus. mittee." Composed of a total of 15 Next. the platform favors the Student were incorporated, tried representatives from the HPC, dropping of a course at any time 
effective and powerful means of "It's not separatist 
decisions. SBP and SBVP hopefuls would be doing with our funds, 
Glenn Sorge and Juan Manigualt would be to build _up the Univer­bargaining with the Ad­SLC. Student Union, Women's cturing the semester without canvassed in the Towers, sity. I think we're a rather hopeful ministration, and the Ad­Caucus. minority groups, and the having it recorded on the tran­
Morrissey. Breen-Philips, and thing for the University, and ministration eventually took them, CAC. thislcommittee will be in­script. to court. The students went to volved with spending money. The final two points concern the
Fischer Halls this weekend. they'll view incorporation as an "As a non-profit corporate en­awareness and an interest in Notre court with their lawyers and won· Incorporation would take 30 days cut policy being left up to the in­
the case. Boston College had to p­after election to office, and ctiv·idual professor and the
tity. our student body will, for the Dame." 
rovide off-campus food co-ops, and amendment to the Student l'limination of Collegiate Seminarfirst tim!:'. be able to secure grants However. when students' rights off-campus center, O.C. bus lines Government Constitution. as a requirement.
from outside the administration,': are infringed upon. as when they are stated Sorge. 
With outside funds from the government and private foun­dations. they will be able to carry 
Carlson plans Independent study
out plans which both past and present Student Governments 
by Steve Magdziltski In the only appearance by his Photography dark rooms, schedule.
have merely discussed, par­
StafJ Reporter ticket during the night Kastelic theatres. technical labs and In explaining of why he andticularly LaFortune renovation, Proposing a January term of outlined the proposed independent gymnasiums would be open during Carlson propose a leave of absenceSorge continued. 
independent study and a leave of study program. He said every January for the use of students program. Kastelic said, "I wouldThis extra funding will also give absence pr0gram. Tom Kastelic student in the University would choosin'g to pursue the project on like to see people more easily get
more rPsponsibility to the 
spoke to about a dozen students in propose a project of interest to a the campus during that time, he away from school."
students. said Manigault. because 
the Blue Room of Holy Cross Hall teacher or advisor. which would be said. lie added that students should be they will be able to set up their own 
last night. 1\astelic is the vice­worked on during January. Five hundred schools already able ·to meet others in an at­eo-ops for bookstores and food 
presidential candidate of the 1\t the end of the month a report have the program. Kastelic said. mnspher" other than a universitysales. for example. 
Carlson-Kastelic ticket. would be submitted to the advisor The possibility of such a program atmosphPre. perhaps by traveling. in the form of a journal, a paper or has already been proposed to the lie said a student could leave for simply a meeting with the advisor. deans here. "It's just a matter of any reason. such as financial or The project would be part of the I ime before the students support family problems.
Kubik proposes 
curriculum for two out of the four it." he said. Kastelic observed that a student vears a student is at Notre Dame. Kastelic said a schedule has who wants to leave the University · Possible projects could be an alreadv been worked out that for a semester or two and return internship program. work in a would ·begin the second semester must now officially quit school and elinic. a mental institution, on Feb. I and end before May 20. rl'apply as a transfer student.
one-day boycott 
hospital or juvenile delinquent aid Tlw sl'mester would be shortened Under the leave of absence by David Kaminski program or any number of hv one or two class days. program a student could leave but 
residential nature of Notre Dame 

Staff Reporter research projects. Kastelic in­'comparing the proposal to still be considered a student and
and the community that it creates 

dicated the possibilities are vir­coeducation. Kastelic said it would have "a sritten guarantee of
is its greatest strength. We cannot

In an informal press conferenc( tually endless. <•ventually be part of the university r£'admittance."
allow this to be destroyed."

Sundav afternoon. SBP candidate "We don't want confrontation1\Ic.ttt Kubik and 'his running mate politics. We want to work with the 
Opposes Clarke

(;ordon Mason . revealed a two 
1 
administration. However, they'repoint plan to rea~t tcquotas for 1973­forci.1g us to act to protect our ~~ upperclassme delivered to the rights."

r halls this weeke d. 
"It doesn't seem that there is 

Hess:strengthen hall gov't
r The plan con ts of a letter to much we can do for this year. It is
r tlw ~dministration, trustees, 
our fault as students for not wat­Jim Gr~.... budget and imput into the student "example of what a viable studentr alumn·i clubs -and parents of the ~,:hing the housing situation more StaffReporter association. Under his platform, government can do."
r, Sophomore anb Junior classes, as 
closely and allowing this to hap­Emphasizing the need for strong they would receive both. An initial Bass' running mate, Mike Davis, 11ell as a one dPY boycott of classes
p~· pen." hall governments as well as an three dollars per resident would be was also actively campaigning.
to <·an\·ass tt-; South Bend com­"However, we can protest this efficient central student give to each hall, Also the office of Last night Davis went door-to-door munity' for rentable housing off 
action and prepare for next year. association. Mike Hess continued HPC chairman would be made a in Sorin Hall. 
eampus. 
We cannot allow this to happen his campaign across campus for cabinet post with a separate office In one room. Davis was asked 
f 
~· 
Thl' letter proposed by Kubik again." Student Body President over the in the student government offices. what was going to happen to club ;1nd Mason would consist of Fr. On Friday night, Kubik and weekend. Hess also spoke on his proposal budgets if so much money was Burtchaell's "In Loco Parentis" Mason sponsored the free showing Speaking in the Old College, for placing a student on the Board given back to the halls. Davis statement. Fr. Hesburgh's of Charlie Chaplin's The Kid to a Hess stated that to give the total of Trustees of the University. Hess pointed to this year's student 
statl'm<•nt to the Junior Class full house at the Architecture responsibility of student govern­said that he would first contact the government and the projected
r 
parents. and F'r. Riehle's recent Auditorium. Later they appeared nwnt to the Hall President Council members of the Board in the area $10.000 surplus as proof thatr l<•ttPr delivering the quotas, as well at the 10 p.m. showing of as was proposed by opponent Jim and work with them in formulating student government can be runr as some comments pointing out the Dc>cameron to pass out platforms Clarke. would "bog down" the a proposal for student represen­l'fficien'ly He said that increased
r ineongruities in these statements and talk to students. HPC. tation. Hess also feels that if he did l'ffici€nly can give all necessary r in rl'lation to the present condition Kubik and Mason made a similar Hess feels that because the HPC not receive their endorsement, funds to budgeted organizations as r of stud<•nt housing. appearance to pass out platforms chairman is not directly elected by Student Government should still wdl as give money back to the r Kubik hopes that the result of the at the Winter Consort concert the students. he is not in the pursue the issue. halls. housing canvass would provide an SMC' Saturday night. proper ·. position to handle the The candidate also pledged his Davis also expressed concern~ improved off campus housing list On Sunday afternoon, they affairs of the total student body or active support of a student lobby in over the number of students being
, 
inducting restrictions set by lan­·campaigned door to door in take charge of the student the Indian Legislature to lower the forced off ce1mpus. When asked if 
<llords and some idea of the rental Cavanaugh. Zahm. and Breen­gcvernment budget. age of majority in the state to he t•xpected the University to cut~ priel'. Phillips. They will conclude their Hestating his platform in eighteen. He pointed to the lobby down the number of freshmen r ·'This plan ties in closely with the l'ampaign with Monday night Howard Hall. Hess said that what as a direct result of the work of admitted. Davis said that, "in r main thrust of our campaign," a ppPa ranees at Morrissey, the HPC needs to become more Notre Dame's present student \'Pars to come. they've got to do r Kubik said. "We think that the Flanner. Grace.aand Alumni halls. fully effective is a much larger gov!:'rnm<•nt. He called it an it. .. 
r 

Monday, February 26, 1973 

the observer 
7 

Charges lack of foresight 
Wesolowski avoids ~Five Year Plan: Nollet 
a 'big platform'
"haphazard" method ot cnange stead of making students fit the by Mike Rizzo and provide students with security system. 1f a group has an activity Staff Reporter of residence. that lasts until, three in the mor­
by George Adelo Wesolowski stated that theyThe present mandatory off ning. weel fine. let them have it Sta.f:t' Reporter weren't making a big platform.
Calling for the adoption of a campus moves, Nollet suggested, there." 
"We have plans but we're not"Five YPar Plan" of university are unjust and in fact unnecessary . The center should cater to revealing them because there's notchange and development, the team if the university functioned under a student interest and Nollet Except for informal table-to­t>nough interest to reveal them.
of Don Nollet and Michael Goetz comprehensive long-range plan suggested that an acoustical area table campaigning in the South Wt>'re not out to buy people's votescarried their campaign for Student such as his five year plan. for a band. pinball machines, or Dining Hall Sunday night and a \\'ith 15 pitchers of beer atBody President and Vice President "The university operates on t>ven washing machines would short appearance at Badin, the Kubiak's. If people want to voteto the students over the weekend. publicity. and students can use serve students better than rooms "Ride the Cosmic Wave" ticket did for us. fine."
Speaking before small groups in this." stated Nollet, to obtain full of chairs. If elected, Nollet no formal campaigning over the Angeluzzi commented that there the dorms. Nolet derided the nt>eded facilities for students hopes to obtain residence in La \\'l'ekend. 
had been trouble with their
tlniversity for lack of foresight in forced off campus. At the least, Fortune so that he would have Presidential and Vice-campaign posters being torn down. 
fpmale dorm picks. open parietals, the university should provide a more time to spend at the Presidential hopefuls Dan He stated that he thought a coupleLa Fortune renovation, and forc~d housing board, a food co-op, and University and qwould be more Wt>solowski and Jay Angeluzzi of candidates were responsible foroff t·ampus moves. adequate means of transportation vaailable to students. stated that they were pleased with this but declined to mention anyNolle! stated that the University for those students. Nollet suggested that a student reaction to the campaign names.
should develop a "Five Year Plan" Seeing great potential in a renovated La Fortune could and decided against extensive The main emphasis of theirwhich would determine dorm picks rl'novated La Fortune Student become the location of the off campaigning because it is campaign. added Angeluzzi, was toand female quotas years in ad­Ct>nter. Nollet stated, "It's our campus food co-op and perhaps a "rl'dundant to get into anything approach the students on a one-to­\'ance. Such a plan would living room. and it should be student shop which would compete anyone else is saying," in the one basis. "We're not going down t>liminate the present tailored to fit students' needs in-with book store prices. words of Angeluzzi. 
:ripping posters or trying to make a joke. At least Kersten had class. ZPro has nothing." 
Wesolowski added that another
Gonzales, Burke stress five points 
reason they had declined to make a big platform was because "the by John Culligan campus services. didates is to improve the academic The proposal to offer free legal students read nothing or they read 
Staff Reporter The two juniors feel that more life. Under tpis category they have advice would aid all students the the jokes. They won't read eleven than ever we need closer student-candidates feel. The law students 
different platforms and weightwo ideas. Tiley propose extending 
Student Body President can­give free legal advice to needy them."
the drop period of classes from

didate .Jose Gonzales and his ;llumni relationships. With the South Bend residents now. Gon­When asked what made the
five \\'l'eks to mids~,mester. The

running mate Tim Burke con­planned cutback in education zales and Burke feel that these "Cosmic Wave" ticket different 
purpose behind this is to allow a

ducted a door-to-door campaign in grants by the federal government, sprvices should be offered free to from the others Wesolowski
student more time to evaluate a

rlorms on the North Quad over the the candidates feel that the alumni rhe students also. stated: "Class. We definitely have 
course.

\\'eekend. They will continue their cotild help those students whose Their last point involves offering elass. Watch me skateboard
There are many classes, ac­

door-to-door campaign by ex­~cholarships will be lessened by more off-campus services. sometime.''
cording to Gonzales, where atl'nding it to South Quad dorms the cutback. 

~tudent does not know how well he until the elections take place. They propose that the alumni is doing in the class until thecould provide the students with middle of the semester when heThe candidates stress a five 

Moscowitz voices
loans. provide aid in finding has a mid-term or paper due.

point campaign, placing an equal ~umml'r jobs for those students 
amount of emphasis on each point. Their other proposal is to extend
who need them. and maybe set up

Tlw five points in their platform some scholarship programs of the add period to two weeks for the arp improving the student-alumni their own. This could all be at­purpose of allowing a student the 
'disillusionment'
rl'lationships. improving the tained by closer cooperation chance to see if he has enough academic life. renovating the between the Student Government study time to add in another class. social facilities on campus, of­
and the Student-Alumni Relations Improvement of the social by Ted Guth Another important plank in thefering to the students free legal Group. also known as SARG. 

facilities on campus would focus on Staff Reporter candidates' platform is a challenge services. and providing off-Another interest of the can-LaFortune Student Center. to what Clemency termed the "in loco parentis attitude" of the 
Asks student support In a Badin Hall speech last night, University as evidenced in 
parietals and restrictions on hallSBP candidate Joe Moskowitz parties. If elected, he pledged toreinterated his decision to run, demand a rationale from thePven in the face of election University for such a policy whichharassment.
astra: Housing the issue 
doesn't allow "a chance to let us"Over the past day, day and a try to show what we can handle."
half. I've become appalled, and C'lemency also called for thecompletely disillusioned with the

by John Rumbach in tlw elections because they know Spl'cial. all he has to do is consult establishment of a Drug Analysis
students here at Notre Dame,"

Staff Reporter soml'thing can be done about the authorities involved. He will Center. while stressing the fact
Moskowitz commented. He noted

"Housing is the number one housing. "If anyone doubts our find that the plans will work," that "we are not condoning drugs. 
that his and Clemency's posters

issue in the campaign.'" asserted plans outlined in the Election Masttro affirmed. . we're saying the situation exists
had been torn down, sometimes 

Studt'nt Bodv President and Vice­at Notre Dame." Drug analysis
within 15 minutes, while other

President hopefuls Brian Mastro would. he said, control the damage
eandidate.s' posters remained 

and Bill Fenton in an interview to users that bad drugs can cause,
untouched. and that a "phantom

Sunday night. and would "provide an element of
poll" had been released to try and

"WP lwlieve in our six-point plan safety."
make him quit the race. 

to provide beds on campus for any "What we're thrusting for,
lie concluded, "I hope Notre

student who wants one a hundred primarily, is a better life for the
Dame students will display a littlebecause have

pPr cent we in­more integrity and fairness ... not student here at Notre Dame," he 
H'stigatPd each point and have concluded.
at all what we have gotten."

found each one highly feasible," mate, Bob
His running

said Mastro at his campaign Clemency. restated the can­lwadquarters in Grace Hall. 
didates' stand. "People are pretty

After an extensive weekend 
\\'ell pleased with their in-classdoor-to-door campaign. Mastro Pducation... what they complain and Fenton have found many about is when Friday rolls aroundstudents who have accepted that and they have a free night." 

All story placement on
tlwy will be forced off-campus. 
Clemency wanted to provide

"This shouldn't be." Fenton these pages was by lottery. 
some sort of constructive .solution 

statPd. 
to this problem, and allow students "Thl' reason the Administration a chance to get together, somewh­hasn't looked into alternate plans ere they could meet and relax. Hefor housing is because it is easier suggested the establishment of afor them to move students off­student bar in Michigan, as a t·ampus. Our investigations show substitute for LaFortune during its that facilities are available," SBP renovation.

l'andidate Mastro affirmed. 
~:~~~~1~ :~t~i~;r~ir~iJ:r~~iJ Clarke-S1·ngleton confer w1;th press
w11l look mto on-campus housmg. 
"The reason the University did not find beds during last year's by Dean Mayors organizations as the SLC, Hall of doing so." of the candidates' posters. com-housing shortage was because Staff Reporter Presidents Coun.cil, and the Singleton ad~ed that nei~~er ~e menting, "There really hasn't there was not enough time. But Student Senate s1mply cannot nor Clarke des1re any pos1t1on m been much constructive discussion there is ample time now to make .Jim Clarke and Chris Singleton complement one another in a~tion. the new government at all. Both ?uring the campaign-some gtiys arrangements.'' Mastro said. concluded a weekend of cam-"Wl' have three groups trymg to stressed that they plan to be out of .JUSt want to fulfill their own egos." 
"All we need is student support. paigning for the student body work for the same thing. There's of_fice by April ~5. "If elected, we Both candiates campaigned If the students don't make a fus:>, presidential and vice-presidential no one person who can then \\'Ill start workmg on our plan by rather extensively over the the t lniversity will continue with spots by holding a press con-I bargain with Mr. Faccenda," he th~ beginning of March," Clarke week.end, concentrating on their plans to force people off-ference last night in Walsh Hall. \ said. sa1d. meetmg students in a variety of campus." FPnton added. Clarke stressed the advantages ' Clarke responded to rumors that Singleton commented on the situ-ations. They made ap­
I<:very student should be able to of his proposal to eliminate the he and Singleton are running only campaigns of some of the other pearances at such \"aried places as choose where he wants to live. offices of student body president for "their own benefit". One such candidates by stating, "Student thl' dining halls, an interhall 
-

l\lastro asserts. "Everything is and vice-president by com-rumor had hinted that Clarke body elections at present are an basketball game. and Kubiak's. a backwards now. Those who want nwnting. "Only through our hoped to eventually become senior insult. Some candidates in the student nightspot. Both spoke in : to live on-(·ampus are being forced system can we put up a united bar manager through his efforts. l'il'ction are selling only their Pangborn, Morrissey. Walsh. St. I to move off. and the girls who want front in dealing with the ad-Said Clareke. "I want nothing out personalities and avoiding the Ed's. and Badin halls over the 
to move off-campus are being ministration." of this for myself. I have not filed issues entirely." weekend. The campaign staff also fmTed to stay on.'' Fenton stated. Singleton stated that such an application for senior bar Singleton further expressed his· initiated a phone campaign l\lastro and l<'enton said they a1c , current student government manager. and I have no intention discontent at the nature of some yesterday. 
..l. 


the observer Monday, February 26, 1973

8 
winter consort was simply amazing 

Apart from the excitement at the ACC, away from the drama at Washington Hall, and far from the otherwise madding crowd, the Paul Winter Consort put on a simply amazing show at O'Laughlin Auditorium last Saturday night. The group impressed me as one of the finest, tightest and most talented bands I've ever seen. 
The group entered the stage which was completely filled with _ percussion i~ strumentsl ranging from kettle drums\to, various foreign instruments. Their music ranged from soft classical to jazz to hard­driving percussion. 
They opened with the title cut from their latest album, "Icarus." It was a beautiful piece featuring sax, harp, cello, and vibes. .Joining Winter <who played sax), were David Darling on cello, Joel Andrews on harp, and Bob Becker and Russ Har­tenburger on a multitude of percussion. 


I 
Most of the films this week are made-for­TV types but included in those is a shocker that reached so many viewers in its first showing last season that it ranks number seven out of the top ten viewed movies from 1961 to 1972 (a full list is below!. The Night Stalker airs again tonight at 11:30 on 28 on the "ABC Wide World of Entertainment." This great horror film concerns a vampire who ravages Las Vegas in the present times. Darrin McGavin plays Kolchak, a good re(lorter who cannot get anyone to believe him and Simon Oakland plays his reluctant city editor. Both recreated their roles in this season's The Night Strangler. 
Last week's The Norliss Tapes starring Roy
l 
Thinnes seemed to be an attempt at a series for next year on this theme. If that show can
r 
consistently come up with stories and scores like it did last Wednesday, then we may have a possible hit on our hands. Anyhow, back to The Night Stalker. The theme music and mood should keep you on the edge of your seat. so enjoy. Incidentally, for all you trivia fans. Barry Atwater, a usual movie and TV heavy. played the vampire. 
The Connection tomorrow night at 8:30 on ABC concerns some jewel thieves trying to fence their goods. If you think the title is ~upposed to catch those who enjoyed The French Connection. you are right. Phil D'Antonio who produces this made-for-TV film also did the same to the academy :tward winner. Incidentally, CBS has bought the rights to The French Connection and a number of other films in a multi-million dollar deal to be shown next season. 

Another film which is made-for-TV is based on Gay Talese's best seller Honor Thy Father. This film land book> which bears the same name will chronicle the life of Bill Bonanno and his relationship with Joe Bonanno. his father, who was a Mafia don until the early sixties when Carlo Gambino and the other three family heads of New York decided that "Joe Bananas" was getting too powerful and exiled him. It was l'ither that or end up like the brutal Albert Anastasia. getting machine-gunned in a 1\:ew York Barber-shop in 1957. Bonanno, thwarted in his plan to become "il capo di tutti capo" <I hope my Italian is correct or my grandmothers will kill mel, is now a retired "business man" in Arizona with his family. His ousting was probably due to his support of the wrong faction in the 1963 F:tllo-Profaci war in New York. For any of the uneducated. "Crazy" Joe Gallo went to 
Little Bi':l Screen 
the night stalker 
art f•rranti 
influenced "Ballad in%" which began with wah-wah cello and a harp solo followed by kettle and bass drums. The tune was im­plemented and then taken over by cello and congas which brought the song back to its original riff. 
· The following song:'Canta, Canta, Mehr" <Sing, Sing, morel was my favorite of the night. It was a combination of Brazilian Indian and classical European music and was dominated by Winter's beautiful sax. 
Probably the high point of the evening, from the stand points of performance and audience reaction, was a twenty minute duo by Becker and Hartenburber entitled "African Boardwalk." It opened with gongs, bells, and other rhythmic devices and then moved to an amadinda, a large zylophone type of instrument made of wood. Their precision and togetherness on these instruments twas phenomenal, but the length of the performance was a littl~ too heavy for rne. They were rewarded with a ­thunderous standing ovation. 
The music reverted back to more classical work with Joel Andrews playing and singing an "Om" chant and following with a pretty 14 th Century Spanish tune which consisted of just simple chords on the harp. The Consort finished their first set with "Ave Maria Stella", a gregorian Chant adaptation with cello, soft sax, voices, and thumping percussion which evolved to a fiery ending. 
Tht' second set began with an im­provisation about the sun which featured another excllent harp solo by Andrews who fingerpicked the rhythm while plucking the lead line, and accompanied himself with an eerie falsetto. 
The group then changed to a fast tempo song by intricate clapping and a fine cello solo by David Darling, whose voice blended well with his playing. The Consort showed their versatility when all members moved to percussion for their last song. 
prison for it, Mafia don Proface died of a heart attack, Joe Colombo took over Profaci's position, Gallo returned and allegedly instigated Colombo's being shot at the Italian Anti-Defamation League rally a few years ago <Colombo had headed that organization>, and was himself murdered at Umberto's Clam Bar last year setting off a gang war which made national headlines. Mv source of information for all this? Let's just say I try to keep up with the "family" business. I doubt if all this will be in the film but it should supplement your viewing and the flick definitely will tell of Bonanno's kidnapping during which time he was told to IE.'ave. The cast and crew are excellent so I do advise your watching Thursday at nine on 22 or else. To quote a now time-worn cliche. "I'm making you a deal you can't refuse." 
Another made-for-TV film that was a proposed pilot for a series in 1966 airs tomorrow at 8:00 on NBC. I Love a Mystery is based on the enormously successful old radio series 1it began in 1939 on NBC radio-­five davs a week--and ended in 1952 on CBS radio) and still has its characters but with new actors of course. Jack Packard is played by Les Crane. Doc Long is played by David Hartman. and Reggie York is played by Hagan Beggs. Ida Lupino guests as a villainess. The lesser heroes of the radio .show are not in this movie version but it 
~ould delight us old radio nuts. 
C~oDanger is the second feature pilot starri Peter Graves as a federal agent 1 the firs ~as made before "Mission: Im­possible" an(obviously did not selll. If this one sells. the'lmpossible Missions Force just might need "-new boss. This film airs tomorrow also bOt on 22 at 9:30. The Stranger tonight at nin~n NBC is a pilot for next season and has enn Corbett as an a~tronaut who crashes a parallel Earth which is totalitarian in government and the p<'ople are all left-handed. The government w:tnts him killed. Saturday premieres Key West on NBC at nine as another ,pilot for next season with Stephen Boyd and Woody Strode as Florida private eyes. 
The not-made-for-TV films are really bad hut for those who are gluttons for punishm<'nt. I shall list them. Tonight on 28 ;mother Dean Martin-Matt Helm flick rl'runs in Murderer's Row with Ann 1\l:trgeret. Pure slop. McKenna's Gold has (;regory Peck and Omar Shariff in a \\'<•stern flop about gold and greed. This 

pat small 
The group encored with another of thetr beautiful soft pieces which consisted of sax, celo, harp, and Australian bush organ. The second encore was a lreautiful deja vu with "Icarus." 
Workshops 
Apparentll:, it was not enough to put on a great concerl, because on Sunday afternoon they held a workshop for all interested musicians and other people. During the four hours, they basically tried to show how to blend with other people and instruments and how to improvise. They did a little playing, but it was mostly the varied collection of people that made most of the music. Judging by the music that came out from that afternoon, it was fairly evident that their togetherness as a band rubbed off quite a bit on the other musicians. 
Joel Andrews also gave an interesting demonstration participation in meditation and vibration and Bob Becker and Russ Hartenburger demonstrated some of their simpler rhythms. 

mckendree spring 

Despite lighting problems that would try the patience of the world's foremost photographer, McKendree Spring managed to cause a reasonable amount of excitement at the Morris Civic Auditorium Friday night. 
Due to other engagements, I un­fortunately arrived late in the show . and missed the warm up bands of Ethos and the Flock and the first part of Spring's set. People were already beginning to leave, 
million dollar fiasco airs Friday at nine on CBS. The "ABC Sunday Night Movie" has ~orne non-entity called Villa Rides with Yul Brynner and Robert Mitchum. You'll Never See Me Again is the last prime time made­for-TV film with David Hartman (againl in marital soap opera at 8:30 Wednesday on ABC. The rest of "The ABC Wide World of Entertainment"shows this week are old "Movies of the Week," and Friday has "In Concert" again. Watch the movie tonight but skip the rest. The Fifteenth Grammy Award Show will be televised Saturday a( 
10:00 pm on 22, pre-empting Caro~Bmett. 
Non Sequitors: Here are the top rated movies from this season as. r ported in Broadcast Magazine. 1. Love ·story <ABC), :!.True Grit <ABCl, 3.,-Patton <ABCl, 4. Goldfinger <ABCl. 5. ptian's Song <ABC>, 6. Columbo 11-26 <NBCl, 7. The Green Berets 1NBC>. 1\. Valley of the Dolls <CBSl, 9. Cactus Flower INBCl, 10. Columbo 10-15 1N BCl. The Ten Best Rated Movies from 1\llil to 1972 are I. Love Story <ABCl, 2. True Grit <ABC>. 3. Patton <ABC>, 4. Ben-Hur tCBS>. a. The Birds <NBCl. 6. Bridge Over The Ri\w Kwai I ABC>. 7. The Night Stalker tABC>. 1\. Brian's Song <original showing) I ABC>. !l. Goldfinger <ABCl, and 10. Women in Chains (ABC>. Incidentally, ABC has the rights to all the James Bond flicks and they will be shown in the coming seasons. 
Mol'ie Notes: Upon finishing Papillon wilh Steve McQueen Dustin Hoffman will begin his role in the soon-to-be-filmed Friday the Rabbi Slept Late. "Your Show of Shows" TV series of the fifties has been l'Ondensed to a ten show "laugh riot" <'ollection and is running in movie houses now. but not as vet in South Bend, of course. :\udr<'y Hepburn is signed to star in The Surl'i1•ors. It will be her first film since Wait Until Dark. The Ball for the Planet of the Apes is the latest Planet of the Apr,s film heing shot. And Rod Steiger, who played the ll'ad in AI Capone in 1959, will play the title role in Francesco Rosi's Regarding Lucky 
Luciano. 
Tri1•ia Quiz: I will have a harder and more out-of-date trivia crossword printed after the break for those who felt that mv "novice" puzzle last week was too cori­tl'mporary and easy. John Sutherland, a grad from ND, supplied this week's question. What were the two main sponsors of the old W.vatt Earp TV series starring Hugh O'Brian? 

joseph abel/ 
something that was curious, for 
seemed to have finished its "warm-up" a 
were just getting down to business . 
Take the song with the long title, " Can I Tell You I Love You When Y Sitting On My Face?" for instance. McKendree's amazing acoustic dominated the song, with some backup form electric Slutsky. Though the absence of a \something you don't see too often successfulrock group> was noticeable, song came through admirably with sort of built-in percussion showing thrnncrh 
The lighting problems mentioned a were especially distracting during the song, "No One Heard." Occasionall plunging the entire stage in total the spotlight operator must have or something, the way he was wea spot between McKendree and bassist Bishop. Blue footlamps would come up w red overheads and half the time you couldn see much more than vague blurs onstage. The song itself was pretty, but not ceptional. something the lighting didn't at all. 
The one that was exceptional, though, the production of "God Bless the spiracy." I say "production" beca composer Mike Dreyfuss incorporated m•arly every electronic gimmick possible in conjunction with his electric violin. l<:\'rrything from wah-wahs to three or four t'<'verbs produced sounds you'd never think could come from a violin. The music itself rangE.'d from bits and pieces of "God Rest YP M<'tTV Gerntlemen" to an effective satire of .:God Bless America." A work that d<•monstrated not only Dreyfuss' prowess on \'iolin. but also his mastery of electronics as music makers. 
It's too bad they weren't better received. But perhaps this was due to Spring's rapport with the crowd. Between-set raps seemed tailored to the fifteen-year-old "heavies" that lined the stage and the pseudo-freaks ' l'Ontinually wandering the aisles. Surely a hand this WE'll accomplished musically has gone hE'yond the stage of bragging about how storwd they were. It's unfortunate that thl'v had to come down to that level. 
'l;h<' encore was less than exciting-­som<'thing called "Blue Eyes" --and the stag<' nwnager gave one hell of a hint by starting to roll away speakers before the last echo had faded. At that point it seemed almost natural at the Morris Civic. 
A good show, but a little work on the technicalities would have made it a better one. 

-----~---------~ 
Monday, February 26, 1973 

H-man comments on 'deviant' tickets 
SBVP surveys this year's campaign 
Should Student Government exist'? Or better yet, does it exist'? These two questions have a strange way of popping up toward the end of every February. <That's a poor opening. Excuse me, but I've never written anything like this before. Maybe I should get a new opening. Maybe I should get a 
., new secretary. Maybe I should get (. a different newspaper. Speaking of bullshit .... l 
It's election time again. And this year's extravaganza has been expanded to include thirteen, count 'em 13, candidates and most probably an infinite number of write-ins-not to mention the perennial candidate Mr. None of the Above. I wonder if he's any relation to Eugene V. Debs? 

But I have digressed, haven't I? Oh. yes, the topic is bullshit. Like every year, I have been reading through the various platforms and somehow managing to remain quite calm. Last year, there was one platform different from the other eight; however, we are blessed this year in having two deviant platforms-deviant in­sofar as they deviate from normal deviation of the mean <who said I was blackballed from the Com­mittee for Redundancy Com­mittee?). 
Last year, the Kersten platform was sensational, unique, and neato-keeno-if 1 do say so myself, from my vantage point of being his roommate. campaign manager and now vice-president. Not only did creativity and humor win, but the message, although originally unintended. also won the Prime Mover his rightful throne in the second stall of the fourth floor john of Walsh. Alas, alack, and amuck, being a chivalrous king, he bawdily gave up that throne due to personnel changes in Walsh and moved to Dillon. 
But even the Oligarchy remained true to the image of the typical presidential aspirant-it couldn't keep all of its campaign promises. We've tried hard, and had some successes, like replacing the Senate with the Oligarchy and finding a good home for.a bastard pussy-cat from the backalleys of South Bend. But we've also had 
failures: we were unable to take over the Observer, the District Attorney would not let Clifford Irving come to the phone so we could hire him to write a biography of Fr. Hesburgh. the pre-med department still has the B-C-D-F option instead of our proposed A-b, there was no visible attempt to recruit Yanamamo Indians from South America. they still don't distribute scholarships by lottery, and we never got around to ap­pointing a Director of Procreation at the Rock. But overall, it's been a vear' · As I was saying a while back, there are two deviant platforms this year. One I see as a serious, but misguided effort to effect a change-the other as a purely political maneuver. I am speaking 
your 
Auto Parts Hqs. 
THE RIDGE.CO. 
Edison & Ironwood (near campus) 2319 E. Edison Rd. 
Unique key chain made with a qenuine champion model engine spark plug. Rhodium plated. 
To tirst 100 persons with

FREf 
this advertisement KEY CHAIN 
(no purchase necessary) L1mit one per person 

I SAVE on 
Speed Parts 
Accessories Auto Parts Tools 
of "incorporating" Student Government and "abolishing" Student Government, respectively. However, in my deviant way of doing things ass-backwards, I will deal with the abolition, first. (To avoid confusion-mine as well as yours,I will refer to "in­corporation as question-issue 1, and to "abolition" as "b".) 
Abolish Student Government t"b"). It's got a nice ring to it. But it's puzzling. Why make it a campaign issue? 
The proposal, as I understand it, says that <if one can believe the Observer, who knows, I may not even be writing this?!) if elected, the new SBP and SBVP would resign in favor of the HPC. They promise to resign and do nothing. This intrigues me. At the very least it shows they are realistic and sin­cere. But to do nothing-th:.t's not very original; I mean the King promised that, and it's been done before by His three predecessors even though "nothing" was not part of their platforms. 
As I understand "b", the duties of the SBP would be divided bet­ween the HPC Chairman and his appointed flunky, thus giving the students a more truly represen­tative Student Govaernment. Pretty far out! If I got it straight, the individuals in the halls elect a President, who in turn with the other hall Presidents elect a HPC Chairman ( who is also a President\, and he appoints his executive coordinator, and those last two guys more truly represent the students than a direct election. Cute. but I keep having trouble with the logic. It is the type of presidential democracy that any banana republic would be proud to call its very own. 
Why destroy student govern­ment? This past year, Student Government was able to operate in the black, wipe-out its long­running debt, form a committee on advanced registration, enforce regulations on Student Govern­ment Grants effectively for the fir­
st  time  even  saving large  sums  
that  were  often  "lost and  unac­ 
counted" for in past year,  make  

plans for the construction of a bus shelter near the Grotto. cooperate with the Student Union which has brought to this campus the best program of events in the last several years. affect mandatory student membership on all College councils. and the list could go on and on. Much of the work done by the Committee on Unorthodox Privateering <C.O.U.P.l, another of our projects, was done for the benefit of the HPC. So far they have done nothing concerning the suggestions for the improvement of food sales, which they felt would 
be better represented by the food sales managers. <Maybe next year the HPC Chairman will resign in favor of the Hall Food Sales Managers Council.) 
In "b", the HPC will handle the funds Student Government has been safeguarding this past year. Now things begin to get clear. Last fall. the HPC did not get the allocation they desired for two basic reasons: Why should the students have to pay two hall taxes?; and If we continue to give in to the administration by maintaining the halls, the big improvements will continue to be put off. Each on-campus student pays about $1,000 for room and board; why should he have to pax another couple bucks through student goveriiinent? Then, there was the argument about hall banquets. Hell, no one likes to eat more than I do (no one can eat more than I dol, but if the HPC can't think of a more beneficial program to improve hall life, except communal eating, all of you on diets should refuse to pay the Activities Fee next year. Talk about money passing through your fingers and into someone else's stomach .... 
And I don't like "b" for other 
reasons. When will resignation 
come? Apparently a new con­
stitution is not yet ready and that 
takes quite a bit of time <ask Dave 
Krashna and John Barkett). 
Speaking of constitutions, if the 
HPC really wanted these changes, 
the present Constitution gives their 
hall councils sole power to amend 
it. If so many of the Presidents 
want this change, why haven't they 
been able to convince their 
councils? By the way, Bob Ker­
sten's example should remind you 
that people who promise to resign 
do not always do so! 
Since there are already avenues 
for "b" changes to take place, 
and if you are serious about 
changing the form of Student 
Government. then I suggest you 
vote for perenniel candidate Mr. 
None of the Above and eliminate 
the middlemen in the transition 
from existing structures to 
proposed structures. 
Even though it may not sound 
like it. I do have great faith in the 
HPC and their new chairman, 
Fred Baranowsky. If I have of­
fended any of these, I am truly 
sorry. But I must maintain my 
personal feelings that cooperation 
between Student Government and 
the HPC are much more effective 
than the loss of one for the sake of 
the other. To expect any person to 
adequately perform in the position 
of Hall President, the Chairman of 
HPC. President of the Student 
Rody and as a student, would be 
beyond normal expectation. 
So much for proposal "b", I promised two deviant analyses, so now turn to question-issue !­"incorporation." On the surface, the concept of incorporation of the Student Government isn't so bad. Lots of things are incorporated­General Motors, IBM, ITT, Tell City even has a few corporations, and there's my grandfather's farm. It just goes to show that some of the nicest people I know are consolidated. 
But Student Government isn't a corporation! It has been suggested that we become one so we will have a good legal position from which to deal with the University. 
First, incorporation is not a necessary step since to sue, any student or group of students are free now to do so. Second, Student Government Inc. is an expensive property and the Student Union cannot live on hot air alone. The University currently collects the activities fee for Student Govern­ment and handles other financial 
(continued on page 10) 
FRIDAY 
MARCH 23 
8:00 pm 
at the ACC 
Ticket Prices 
Bleachers...... 3.00 Lower Arena ...4.50 
Floor Seats ....  5.50  
Platforms......  5.50  
Loge...........  5.50  


the observer 
9 
Be•r is Beer Anywhere But 
Pizza is Pizza only at 
LOUIE'S 

Giant Size Spaghetti 
Plates only $1.00 
& 

Miller Quarts only $.85 
available upon presentation 
of this ad at 
ILOUIE'S 

Box Office Opens TODAY at gate 1 0 of ACC 9-5 
Marine Corps 
Earn $100 a month and a Marine Corps commission through the Platoon Leaders Class. 
~ ~ 
•l 
l 
1 
l• 
~ 
4• 
l• 
i 
l • •
• 
Eligible college men can earn $1 00 a month each month of the regular school year. It's likea$900annual scholarship. 

The PLC also offers a 
few good men the 
chance to learn to fly 
free. The Corps pays 
the entire cost of 
civilian flight instruction 
...worth about $800. 
All PLC leadership training takes place during the summer when it can't interfere with your college career. Upon graduation PLC members are commissioned Second Lieutenants. 

The Marines are looking for a few good men. 
DINING HALLS Noon & Evening Meals 
Today Thru Friday 




Monday, February 26, 1973

the observer 
Peace Corps seeks experienced students 
by George Brown Staff Reporter 
Liberal Arts students can still be placed in the Peace Corps if out­side job experience has given them the background they need to work in one of the corps' programs, according to Bernice Roy, campus representative for Peace Corps and Vista. 
Contacted last Friday, Roy said that she was continuing recruit­ment this semester by questioning interested students to find those skills they had developed that 
could be useful for work overseas or here in this country. Rewarding experience 
"I have tried," stressed Roy, "to 
help those that have applied 
present as much meaningful in­
formation as possible on the ap­
plication blank. Any experience 
they have had in past jobs might be 
helpful." 
Having served for two years in 
the Philippines as an English 
teaeher. Roy stated that she had 
gained greatly from her ex­
periences there. 
"It caused me to reassess some Washington for matching and of my own values," Roy com­placement. mented, "and to see that lack of "The number of invitations to material wealth did not prevent work this summer," Roy stated, the people I worked with from "is still incomplete because the being happy. Their close family acceptances have just started to structure and community feeling arrive since the middle of was very strong and I was glad to February." have shared in it." "Those jobs in biggest demand 
in past years, commented Roy,
Jobs available 
have been in the areas ofSince the start of recruiting last 
agricultural training, business
October, close to 100 applications administration and mathematics­from Notre Dame and St. Mary's science."
students have been sent to AC­TION program headquarters in The response here at Notre 

Representation on councils denied 
by Mark Derheimer Staff Reporter 
Dean Bernard Waldman of Science. Dean Joseph Hogan of Engineering, and Dr. Jerert}-iah I<'reeman of Chemistry voted against student representation on College Councils at the Feb. 19 Academic Council meeting because they think students in their colleges are not interested in serving, and would not understand many of the proposals. 
Etienne 
(continued from page 9) arrangements for little or no cost to us. If the S.G. Corp. has to collect the Fee itself Ca distinct possibility if we deviate to become distind l, it'd be tough to collect. Would your roommate be willing to walk over to LaFortune to shell out $1-t for the Govt. and Union'? Would You'? Would J? The number who would do so would probably be less than thosl' who came up here to collect their free Dividend. Now think of some other hassles an ilworporated S.G. could likely expel'l would the University still be willing to give free rent to a division of thl' University, yes, to a 
MeWilliams to present speech on ethno-culture 
Well known author-lecturer, t'an·y 1\lcWilliams. will speak 1\londay evening at 7::l0 in the 1\lemorial Librarv Auditorium. 
llis  lt•cturP.  P~titled  "News  
i\lanagPrnPnl  as  Related  to  
1\1 inoritiPs"  is  open  to  public in­ 

terpsl<'d in ethno-cultural issues. 
1\ll'Williams, a native t'oloradoan. has been associated 11·ith TIH• Nation. liberal political .iournal. sinct• 1945; his editorship !Jpgan in 1955. In addition, he has puhlislwd numerous book-length ~tudiPs of various Plhnic minorities and tht• corrosive prejudice they encountt•r. 
1\ll'Williarns' North From Mc•xico: Thc> Spanish-Speakinr l'C'oplc> of thc> United States is l'onsidPred among the modern l'lassit· treatmt>nts of the socio­historic background of Chicanos . .\mong his other publications are llmbro.c:e Bierce: A Biography; 
Fadoris in the Field; Brothers wuic>r thc> Shin; Prejudice; and A Masl~ for Privilege; Anti­Sc•nJi/ism in America. 
Tlw 1\lcWilliams lecture is part of tht• Dept. of Sociology­:\nthropolgy lecture series on :1 I t>xican-Americans. 
Study in Guadalajara, Mexico 
Fully accrldlted, 20-year UNIVER· SITY OF ARIZONA Guadalajara
.. Summer School often July 2-Aupst 11, anthropoto&Y, art, education, folklo,., JIOCrlphy, history, COV­emllllnt, lanpace 111d llt.rature. Tultloa $165; board llld room $211. Write: International Procr11111, Unl· veralty of Arizona, Tucaon 15721. 
L-.... --­
---------J 
In an interview yesterday, Dean representation because the Waldman said he objected to "the Science Council felt that students, principle of symmetry where as votine: members, were not there must be a student on every necessary. council." Freeman. a member of the 
Waldman said his college was Science Council, said he was not the first to have student input by a "personally opposed" to student student advisory council. He representation. but voted against believes that the College of Science the proposal because the Science "works closely with students" Council had decided against pointing out that two students, one student members. graduate and one undergraduate, Freeman added, "The Academic attend every meeting of the Council should not tell college Science Council as observers. councils how to run." 
Waldman voted against student The issue. according to 
looks at 

deviate corporation threatening lawsuits'? I think not. Would it still cio all the payroll and tax work for its full-timr employees; would the l lniversity legal staff still be available for free consultation; would tht> ACC be willing to con­tract with the Social Commission if it felt that $80,000 did not stand lwhind the agreements made; would any business in South Bend lw willing to sell campus press a machine on time if it realized that 
S.G. Corp.'s credit was no longer !)acked by the gold of the Dome? 
Tlw list could go on and on, but sinct' I'm not sure this will get 1)nnted. anyway, why knock mysplf out! It just seems that the bt>nefits of the plan (if indeed there are any\ are far outweighed by the possible problems. There doesn't seem to be anything that the S.G. ('orp could do that it cannot alrpadv do. and there are in­nurnt>rable problems to face if it stTt'WS up. If we screw up now, the University of Notre Dame \Inc. l is ullimatl'ly responsible. 
i"rom the looks of it. "in­corporation" could be just as dPtrimental as "abolition" as far as student cooperation. student powPr, student service. student 
union.  and  student  lobby.  are  
l'Oncernl'd.  
Dennis P. Etienne  
m-Manl  


Jimmy Hayes won the campus-wode pool contest last week by a 15-ball margin over Paul Reinhadt in the LaFortune basement. (Staff photo by Jim Hunt) 
KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS 
-MEETING ­
Mon. • Feb. 26 • 7 p.m. 
Steak Dinner Fri. March 2 • 7p.m. Sign • Up in Council T.V. Room by Tuesday 8 p.m. 
l''reeman, is not that important to science faculty or students. The Science Council is not an "exciting operation" and he does not see much student interest in it. 
Speaking about the Engineering Council. Dean Hogan stated that "the input of undergrads on some proposals would be nil Cbecause of their complexity), and frequently they are not interested." 
Hogan agreed with Freeman that students are not interested adding that many things the council deals with are specialized, such as graduate course proposals. 
!logan believes the college councils should have flexibility in determining their rules and regulations. "Maybe a student has a grl'al input in English. more than an aerospace student should have." said Hogan, to emphasize thE' point that each college should Ill' able to dl'termine its own rl'presentation. 
The .Joint Engineering Council, which is composed of un­dt•rgraduates, presents proposals on brhalf of students to the l•:nginerring Council. 
Nt>ithrr Dt>an Waldman nor llogan knew if they would oppose :-;tudrnt rrpresl'ntation on college councils when the final vote on the facul.lv manual. which includes this pi·opm;aJ. comE's to a vote. 


Dame has been split about equally between the Peace Corps and Vista programs. The deadline for filing applications for jobs starting this summer is March 30th, said Roy. 
Those who have questions or are interested in applying to either Peace Corps or Vista can contact Bl'rnice Roy in Room 223 of the Administration Building in person or by calling 8139. She will be available Tuesdavs and Wed­nesdays from 1 to 3 p.m. and Thursdays from 2 to 3 p.m. 
PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Main Bulldlr.z 

lntO'rvl-•••• ror ••,.tort•hiiJUol•a.u•IIUdO'nH. ,,.,.• ..., tchodulu ••• inl-201, Kllln ..,lldin~. llllar~\ ... 11-• ....u h ooloCiad lnd o\~nod rar In .,....on. 1t<>11ro uo ft100 •·•· tn,iOO ~··· oleh ll.llw, Ufopl ,r\doJ. Tho Plor-nt M.IIIIUII 
N\VII a~dlt\ono\ tnra..-11.., u,utlln~ lntnv\ ...1 and procod11..o. 
H\111"\lhP\n.ondAcu. 
iirt:~·!:r·,.l. 
btn,lllth.,K,l.. Ch,! .. l,!. I!!!!H""' sundud-ph. nr Un!tod ALruah Corp. h \ft A,!,, K.t., [.1!., 
~c~~.... 
n, HS In n •. r. or~d rho.... ,.,,.,. D\Y\OlOfi•Unl••dA!rouh Corp,
•'0,,. tn [,[, tc~Av!lh "'"'or !nu. hock,roLIIIdl, 
loerlh !\.,;trlc c-eany. 15\n[,[,andH.[, O!d!!ntl!nk.TriiiiCII_.. All IIA• 
lor•·ll•m•r h•o•roh C1111~r. BS,HSinH,[,and!.!, ~: John....,.IDII 1~. 
La~•nthal Jrokluln \lo"'ull6 ltai'W<Ith. 
IL\ In Acct. MIA ..1111 Accr, ~.ck,,n..,d. ""rchonll "-Ilona\ aon~ • TriJIC Co, A\\111.. 
:WJA.dS•••<~u. 
Tnrrtnll<>n C<JIO!>:I!n~. 1\>lntt.t. 
~J·:~~~~"';·•~!'";~ '"""'·snllfM.. 
~~~..~-· 
All lA ond •"'· n tn..,.tto. I'UIA"Itll Jln. 
h•~••ro•lllld, 
~· 
All M 111~ 1M. 
ifj'~:. ~rw~~·..~:~l;'~-~:~krround, 
£!-~:~":.~."l<h\1!111(_\_~· 
'!!,!".,!_·!.!'•~·~·J'.L!_~ 
liS Ill Ch.l., H,r,, t,r., ~M tn >llot. I!M 
·:..:.:.'!~
'11-,•u.,"''''" 
~~··__.. ·: 
RIA \II A«! •-~ , ,., ..ItA. 
__ --~·-~· -r•n: 
I'•, IG tn "1.F, ~~ 1~ A.rn., I'll!., lftot ':!'!J_Lonlloti,.,•I1!..!Jlo."Jr!!!.!....!..!!· MIA In Aut,, rtn HOt, IillA W!lh .... , 
=~dv;:'~~:~• t:.~honr• 
~.!..!!·~'!...~'!..!!....:..·~····· 0\A •· '· ·•n. .':I ~~~~ on•l "IIA !'!.!!.! ~--= ~~ ....~,. -. IC'>. J'l, • ~~ . '· f ""'. ' ....... 
........·~:·. ·••lt"'.".!!!..:.k~ ~I I '•, • • • • ~-~ Jo--• ;• II n•o. FM •I ,,,r, ,r In 1 o , ' ; , ' '" ~.,,,..,,.,. " 1 I !.,..tt,.••• II .tot•• tM. : ".r :.-~nr...,.. • • • •..,11, rr """' ,r ~•, ,·,~·"A•• _ 
.;:d;.~ ""I •-t <r • to •. " , ' 11 rr•~•tot r
1 

-;·'~--• ,.,;,..,_., •!•· •n•l1~••· lurhln,, 
.o\<11-IP,•t• •-r,,lvu!.. , r•rl•ul '·HY\(f', 

~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­



,ND quintet scalps Redmen, 75-71 
by Vic Dorr 
John Shumate and the Notre Dame basketball team battled Bill Schaeffer and the St. John's Redmen to a virtual standoff during the first 39 minutes of Saturday's game at New York's Nassau County Coliseum. 
. eight  points,  and  Crotty  
01 rebounds) and Novak  (seven)  
paced ND on the boards.  


Bengals open 
(continued from page 12) 
Most of the best action, however, took place in the lower weight classes. After Steve Morris of Pangborn Hall had defeated senior Carlos Smith in the opening fight of the afternoon, three matches produced controversial decisions. Sophomore wrestler Tom Garrity and Breen-Phillip's Eli Guarjardo mixed some hard fighting with little defense before Garrity was given a split decision in the 125­pound class. In one of the af­ternoon's best matchups, veteran Jerry Bradley got the nod over !<'rank Graziano by means of a split decision. Graziano was easily the most aggressive boxer of the pair but Bradley's ability to elude Graziano's hard punches was enough to make him the victor. 
Greg Benninghoff won a unanimous decision over freshman Mike Shaw in the opening bout in the 140-pound division. Both fighters showed good combinations and surprising quickness but the judges decided that Benninghoff was the better of the two and presented him with a unanimous decision. Ray Kern and veteran Tom Hudes advanced to the semifinals with unanimous decisions over Walt Barry and Jim Clune respectively. 
into.  Write TWR  Co.  Dept.  F2,  
2550  Telegraph  Ave.,  Berkeley,  
CA 94704  

Mike Suddes and Tom Hanlon headed the list of winners in the 145-pound division. but the day's best victory belonged to Alumni junior Bill Pioli. The first-year boxer and his opponent, junior Larry Gallagher, went at each other furiously for two rounds bt>fore the experienced Gallagher bloodied Pioli's nose early in the third round. Pioli wouldn't give up. however, and countered with a erunching left thatdazedGallagher and clinched the unanimous decision. Charles Morrison was a !so victorious yesterday in a close decision over senior Mike Regan. Hegan got to Morrison's nose, but the gutty junior weathered the injury to take the split decision. Suddes had no trouble with C.J. Ludford while Hanlon, last year's runner-up. was an easy victor over John Cooney. 
thinking about law school.  Dean  
Waddick  will  answer  your  
questions  Tuesday  night.  Feb.  

Two fights were contested in the !55-pound class to determine the opponents for defending champion Mike Sanders and the 1972 runner­up. Tom Bole. Ken McCandless, the only graduate student par­ticipating this year. showed good form in knocking off sophomore AI Koch and will meet Sanders on Tuesday. Bole' foe will be lefty Jim Burkart of Cavanaugh Hall. He won via the TKO route in the second round over St. Ed's John Sherry. 
Pat Steenberge and Cecil Boot moved closer to a rematch of last vear's final as each won by a unanimous decision. Steenberge was steady as he got past Tim Dempsey but Boot proved to be a better runner than boxer. However. his opponent Frank l<'lannagan was just as reluctant to throw any punches and even let Boot get away from a corner near the end of the first round. 
The last two fights on the card produced different results. Senior Mike Welsh hurt Buck Rogers early in the first round and went on to score a TKO in 1:05 of that round. And. in the day's only upset. Mike McGuire handed George Nelson a TKO in :32 of the second round after the senior had been ahead on points. Nelson, however. left himself open once too often and McGuire landed a quick right-left combination to fell the 175-pounder. 
Tuesday's semifinals will begin at II p.m. in the Athletic and Convocation Center. 
But. when the final minute of the contest had been piayed, the Irish were able to claim both individual and team honors. Shumate finished the afternoon with 31 points, just eclipsing Schaeffer's :lO-point effort for St. John's, and the ND squad totalled 75 overall-­just eclipsing the Redmen's 71. 
Coach Digger Phelps' Irish, who are now 13-11 for the season, had to come from behind during the final four minutes to earn the victory, and the decision wasn't assured until Shumate sank a pair of in­surance free throws with 14 seconds remaining. 
"It was a game we had to win to stay in contention for a tounament bid." said Phelps afterwards. "And it's always great to win in New York--and to beat a team like St. John's" 
The Redmen, who are in con­tention for a post-season 1 bld themselves, did not succumb easily. A baseline jumper by Schaeffer six minutes into the second half gave them a 53-52 lead, and the two teams 1 volleyed for much of the next ten minutes. The Irish tied it at 69 with 4:18 remaining when Shumate hit a free throw. and t)len Dwight Clay netted a pair of driving lay-ups-­one of them on a goaltending violation--to give Notre Dame the lead with just over a minute to play. 
Schaeffer's basket following 
Clay's second lay-up pulled St. 
John's to within two, and the 
Redmen had a chance to tie the 
game--with just over 30 seconds 
remaining--when they forced 
Notre Dame to turn the ball over 
and began working for a shot 
themselves. 
JUNIORS 
Make your ·yearbook 
portrait appointment 
LAST CHANCE 
call 283-8473 
Army Navy Discount 
207 N. Main Downtown South Bend Mon. & Thurs. 9 a.m. -8p.m. Tues. Wed. Fri, Sat. 9-5:30 
Trench Coats Wool Overcoats $14.99 Musette S~oulder Bags 
are found at 
Back packs Army Fatigue Pants and Jackets Army Combat Boots 
Army T-Shirts 
O.D. Color 
Coupon Special 
ARMY FIELD JACKET $12.99 with coupon $9.99 
res Mar. 5, 1973 

--~----­
But NO's Gary Novak stole an errant pass, and the Irish worked the ball in the backcourt for nearly 10 seconds before sending a long pass to Shumate at center-court. St. John's Ed Searcy collided with Shumate just as the pass arrived, and the Irish center was awarded two free throws with 
0:14 showing on the clock. "Shue" sank them both, and NO's 75-71 lead stood up during the final seconds. 
"Shumate (who hit 12-of-18 from the field and seven-of-eight from the charity line) had one of the finest games of his career," said Phelps. And St. John's coach Frank Mulzoff agreed. "Shumate's game was super--but no surprise to us. He always plays that way. Pete Crotty also played a very strong, physical game. 
"Notre Dame never once panicked," continued Mulzoff. "They were always cool and confident." 
But it was Mulzoff's Redmen who were "cool and confident" at the outset of the game. St. John's built an early 4-Q lead, but the Irish earased that margin by tallying seven straight points--two buckets by Clay and a three-point play by Peter Crotty. The Redmen tied it at 12 . but then Shumate took the ND attack inside, and the Irish built a 34-24 lead with five minutes remaining in the half. 
Phelps' squad still led by nine, ~4-35, with just over one minute showing, but the Redmen scored three unanswered baskets--two by Schaeffer and one on a long jumper by freshman guard Frank Alagia-­and shaved the ND lead to three at the buzzer. 
The Irish coach played his 
2. 99 
$3.99 $13.99 

-------~----------------------------------~ 
Monday, February 26, 1973 the observer 11 
RIDES WANTED 
4girls need ride toN.Y. or N.J. at break. Call 4101. 5154, 4028 
Need ride to N.E. Pa. Mar 9 After 
5:00 P.M. Call Ed 1504! Drive} share expenses 
I need ride to U of Illinois, 'Champaign Friday March 2 and . or back Sunday Share expenses 
AI 8900 
Desperately need ride to New Jersey for break (March 8 or 9) Share expenses. Call Tom 7852 
Need ride to ,Lauderdale, Hollywood or Miami. $ tor spring break. Ken 3679 
Need ride back from Chicago O'Hare tor two on March 18. 3118, James 
Need ride to Omaha, Nebraska. Can leave 3:00 March 8. Will share $, driving· Call Chuck 1782 
Need ride for two or -three to St. Louis· March 2 weekend -call Dick 233-6280 
Need ride to Cleveland can leave anytime Thursday, March 8, Call Greg 1336 
WANTED 
Several men needed immediately tor telephone sales work. Hourly wage.. For more information call 288-6026 
Wanted: Tennis Partner Call 232­0882 
1nterested in some good poker games? call Larry 3245 
So. carolina Basketball tickets needed for underprivileged So. Bend students. If yo·u would like to contribute, call John 288-1001 or Theresa 4437 
FOR RENT 
Available for September, two, three, four and six bedroom homes. Call Mr. Hambarger. 234­9364 
Rooms and Kitchen. $40 mo. 233· 1329 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost: Gold SMC class ring, 73 initials BAB, call 4140 
Found: Watch with black band in parking lot west of stadium. call 7924 
FOR SALE 
For sale: 71 Pinto, good condition, must sell, 1500 or best otter, call 259 0787 
For sale: Ampex 1455 stereo real deck with auto-reverse, $150. Call 3017 after 8pm. 
Need a ride home this spring? Or l1ow bout a far out, exciting, modern. cool, m indblowing, super, Go-See-America, Bronson. like summer on a brand new, unused, 1973 Suzuki 500 motor­cycle; For Sale, best otter. Go via Hell's Angels and call Bill at 7827 
~th of July fireworks tor sale. Send name and telephone number to Box 685 Notre Dame, Indiana 
~6556 
AKC, Labrador pups. One male ' and one female. Call jim Thean 283 6556, •9 ·5 
F'or Sale: 1966 dodge window van! call Rich After 5 pm 288-0266 
PERSONAL 
We love you, Super Wheeler. F-Lin£ 

NOTICES 
Before you buy a diamond Learn all the tacats. It may save you a great deal. Call: James 3118 
A BETTER CHOICE IS LIFE FOR THE UNBORN CHILD . CONTACT BIRTHRIGHT. INC. INSOUTH BEND. P.O. BOX 824 or call. 289-1034 
hot line crisis phone-have a problem you'd like to discuss 3nonymously (drugs, bad trip, 
·amily relations , suicide, con­traception, pregnancy, abortion, etc. J ? Call this number 282-2323 
NDSTUDENTSANDFACULTY! 15 per cent ott on all shock and brake work at Rollin' Wheels Sunoco (across from Greewood's Shopping Center) tor next 30 days. call 272-9676 or stop in anytime! 
TYPING : PAPERS, DISSERTATIONS, THESES. IMMEDIATE DELIVERY. CALL 287-1222 after 5 
Overseas Jobs . summer or permanent. Australia, Europe, S. America, Africa, etc. All professions $500-$1000 monthly, expenses paid, sightseeing, tree 
Child care workers · Immediate openings and other openings within the next several months tor married couples without dependent children. To live in four days. ott tour days. 
Residential Treatment Proilram for emotionally disturbed adolescents. write to Fort Wayne Children's Home, Box 5038, Hazelwood Station, Fort Wayne, Indiana, with resume. Must be at 
.east age 21. 

Ride the Cosmic Wave! Vote Wesolowski . Angeluzzi 
Madge, Why have an amateur student? You can have a professional new age of decadence 
JUNIORS! Now is the time to be 
27th. Engineering auditorium. 7:30P.M. Sponsored by the Pre. Law Society. 
Need money for Spring Break? Borrow $20 to $150 from Morrissey Loan Fund. Monday-Friday 11:15-12:15. Basement of La Fortune 
FOR INFORMATION ABOUT GAY AWARENESS COM MUNITY, CALL 7789, W-Th-F 8· 10 PM 
New York Gallery Tour Round Trip by Bus from South Bend. March 8-12 Transportation $35, Hotel 10.50 nile. Sign-11p...Oept of Art, 132 O'Shag. -­
Will work on Volkswagons 11 years experience. Call after 4:00 pm, 272-3980 
To the editors of the Observer: We have noted with interest and puzzlement your questionaire. It's usefulness, it any, eludes us. We have also received your qracious offer to grant us an audience in order to more closely evaluate our candidacy. Regretfully, we must humbly decline both. Frankly, we aren't expecially concerned with what 
• you think of us. The only en. ctorsemrnt we are seeking is the one to be qiven on February 27, by the\ ·students of this university. we have the utmost confi::lmce in the ability of our fellow students to judge us on our own merits, without the prodding of any would-be campus kingmakers 
Yours in Notre Dame, 
Alice Woicieszek Blake Wordal 
Two guys desperately need ride to, Miami on Mar. 7. Will share driving and expenses. Call Pete. 8810. Please give us a. break! 
Acoustic Amplifier tor sale. one piece. best otter. Call 234·4547 after 7PM 
• 
starting five without substitution, and four of the ND regulars produced double-figure scoring efforts. Gary Brokaw had 14 points for the Irish, who shot 54 per cent for the game, Clay had 12, ar1tt Crotty 10. "Goose" Novak scored 
Besides Schaeffer, 6-8 Tony 

Prince was the only Redman in double-figures. Prince collected 10 points, Searcy and Mell Utley each had eight, and reserve Larry Jenkins finished with six. 
The Irish were out-rebounded by ~t. John's 42-29, but ND owned a crucial edge at the free throw line. Notre Dame converted 11 of 14 charity tosses, while the Redmen hit but one of five. 
CLASSFIED ADS 

the observer Monday, February 26, 1973

12 
Irish sweep Badgers;climb to 3rd 
by Jim Donaldson title with 52 points. The Badgers Pat Conroy countered that tally Sports Editor have 45 points and only four left to at 12:02, knocking in an Ian play for. William's rebound while both clubs 

Notre Dame played a good A six-gaol third period outburst, had a man in the penalty box, andportion of Saturday's game with sparked by Noble's hat-trick, Mark Steinborn gave the Irish a 2-1 Wisconsin with only five men on made the1difference Friday as the lead a little over two minutes later the ice but it probably seemed to Irish came back from one-gaol when he put in a 15-footer with 
the Badgers as if the Irish had 4-3 man­
.deficits three times. Kronholm Notre Dame holding a seven men playing. 

made 17 saves in the second period power advantage.

Getting great goaltending from to keep things close and the Irish The Badgers managed to tie theMark Kronholm and outstanding put the game away with four goals score before the period ended,penalty killing from forwards Pat in four minutes midway through however, with another power playNovitski, Mike Tardani, Paul the final period. goal. Dennis Olmstead scored at Regan, John Noble and Eddie "Notre Dame is an aggressive, 16:04 on a low shot from the rightBumbacco and defensemen Bill scrappy team" Badger coach Bob faceoff circle. 
Green, Mark Steinborn, Steve Johnson admitted Saturday. The second period belonged to Curry and Bill Nyrop, Notre Dame "They battle you all the way and Wisconsin--and Kronholm. "We managed to survive 11 penalties should have put the game away innever let up."
and almost 12 shorthanded 
the second period," Johnson said,"I'm so pleased with theminutes and edged Wisconsin, 4-3, referring to the numerous Badgercharacter' that this team hasat the ACC. 

scoring bids that Kronholm th­shown," said a tired, but veryCoupled with an 8-5 victory warted, while Smith commented,happy, Irish coach "Lefty" Smith.

F'riday night, the win enabled the "We really have to credit Mark.
from against

Irish to sweep their four-point "We came behind When the pressure gets up, MarkMichigan, Colorado College andseries with the Badgers and move 
gets up."
Michigan State and then did it

into a third place tie with Michigan was nearly
Kronholm im­again against Wisconsin. That

Tech. which beat Michigan twice a barrage
penetrable against of Goalie Mark Kronholm turned In a pair of outstanding performances as
shows something special as far asin Houghton, 5-3 and 9-6. Notre 

Badger shots. Ironically, Notre Dame swept a four-point series with Wisconsin at the ACC. 
Dame is now 17-9 with 40 points in character is concerned. I'm as Wisconsin's only score in the
WCHA play ( 19-12 overall) and has proud of that as I am about our puck into the empty net. and again stopping Badgers
period came while the Irish were 

won 14 of its last 17 games. wins. Everybody dug down and did Again, on Saturday, the Badgers scoring bids from close range.
on a power play, Cherrey banging 

Wisconsin dropped to 17-8-1 and a fantastic job." scored first and, again, the score The Irish gave Kronholm some 
one in with 4:40 gone.

lost its hold on first place to Wisconsin put the Irish in a hole came off their extremely effective breathing room in the final period.
Noble picked up Kronholm's

Denver. which swept an eight­early Friday, when Norm Cherrey "Russian" power play. Tim Dool Dl'l.orenzi put Notre Dame on top,
burden in the third period and

point series with Michigan State, 5-picked up a power play goal 4:04 made it 1-0 at 3:54 while the Irish :l-2. with a little help from a
starting a scoring splurge that 

ll and \1-3, and clinched the league after the opening faceoff. had two men in the penalty box, Wisconsin defenseman. His ceo­
carried the Irish to victory. His beating Kronholm with a backhand tering pass bounced off Daverebound of a Bumbacco shot tied

Jim Dona Idson::::=============:::=::;;:=:=:=:~;::::::================================================================= from in close. Arundel. into the net, at 2:49.
the game at :3:38 and, after Notre Dame tied the score with a Hie Schafer upped the lead to 4-2Wisconsin went on goal

ahead a power play goal of its own at 16:33 at II :46, deflecting one of Nyrop.s
that caromed into the net off an when Williams hit Bumbacco shots past Perkins. but there wereIrish defender's skate at 5:03,

The Irish Eye 

breaking in on the left. The still tense moments ahead for theNoble tied the score again at the WCHA's leading goal scorer had Irish.
nine-minute mark, flipping his first shot blocked by goalie Dean Talafous brought theanother rebound over Badger Dick Perkins, but swooped in on BadgE>rs within one with a power:::::=:Root, root, root for the home team goalie Jim Makey. 

thereboundforhis28thleaguegoal play marker at 13:12, drilling in aCherrey received credit for and :mth of the season. 25-footer, and WisconsinFrank Leahy, back in the days when his Irish football teams were Wisconsin's fourth goal, giving Another power play marker, this threatened again when Larrystringing national championships end-to-end, remarked that playing a him a hat trick. Noble matched time on Lloyd Bentley's shot from Israelson was whistled off the icegame in Notre Dame Stadium was worth a six-point advantage. . 
that feat at 10:30, beating Makey the slot, put Wisconsin on top for tripping at 17:58.

John Wooden asked what difference the crowd had made m Notre 
with a wrist shot from the slot. 

again, 2-1, with 1:42 left in the Notre Dame's Steve Curry andDame's upset of his national champion UCLA basketball squad in 1971, Notre Dame had the lead and the period. But the Badgers didn't hold the Badgers' Dool were sent to thereplied simply, "the game." . . 
momentum and increased both in en-Charles "Lefty" Smith, who watched close to 1000 W1sconsm hockey the lead for long. box at 18:46, and Wisconsin

the next two minutes. DeLorenzi It took just seven seconds for the joyed five-on-four and four-on­fans vainly attempt to cheer their Badgers to victory last weekend at the one into twine

gunned the off Irish to make it 2-2 as Noble won three advantages in the game'sACC. said that the presence of so many hostile rooters was "un­Regan's faceoff draw and Conroy the ensuing faceoff, outraced final two minutes. But Kronholmfortunate." 

scored again from the left side. 

Perkins, who strayed too far out of and the Irish penalty proved killers It's only been within the last couple of years that hockey has joined Wisconsin cut the lead to 7-5 on his nl't, to the puck, and got it to proved Pqual to the challenge andfootball and basketball as a "major sport" at Notre Dame. And it wasn't Gary Winchester's power play Bumbacco. prevented any further scoring.
until the end of last season that the Irish icers began to ~ttract the score with a little over a minute Bumbacco's shot on the empty The Irish conclude their regularvociferous following that attend football and basketball games. 
left in the game, but the Irish net was deflected by a defenseman spason schedule next weekend atBut this year, there's !been no lack of .support. Attendance at th~ ACC picked up theireighth goal with 29 but Williams gained possession Minnesota-Duluth with an eightice arena has reached record levels th1s season and Notre Dame s last 
six home games were watched by standing-room-only crowds. Last seconds remaining after the and shot accurately for the score. point series and it's still possible
• weekend's games between the Irish and Wisconsin were no exception. Badgers had pulled their goalie . As he had the previous night, for Notre Dame to finish anywhere 
Bumbacco blocked a pass in Kronholm turned in a spectacular from second to fifth in the finalOnly the arena wasn't packed with Notre Dame fans. . 
Wisconsin's zone and guided the effort in the second time standings.
Spread liberally among the 4,700-plus people who watched the .Insh beat league-leading Wisconsin twice, 8-5 and 4-3, were nearly 1,000 h1ghly vocal. red-clad Badger fans who tried very hard to nullify Notre Dame's home-iceladvantage--and nearly succeeded. Had it not been for the en­thusiasm'shown by Notre Dame's rooters and the timely organ playing of Marcia Noble, it might well have seemed like a home game for the Badgers. 
In hockey, perhaps more than in any other sport, "home ice"--and ~hat that terms connotes in the way of enthusiasm, spirit and confidence--Is an extremely important advantage. It'~ an .advantage .not t~ be lig~tly nullified. as Notre Dame's ticket office d1d to the Insh with so httle foresight last weekend. 
Both Notre Dame fans and players alike complained about the all-too­visible. and audible, number of Wisconsin fans. Don Bouffard, Notre Dame's ticket manager, was the object of numerous uncomplimentary remarks because he allowed the mass Wisconsin ticket sale to take place. 
"I thought it was stupid," one angry Irish fantsaid. "Ev~ryone knows how obnoxious Wisconsin fans are and, when I walked mto the ACC Friday night and saw nothing but red hats, it kind of made me wonder what the ticket office was thinking about." 
"It was absurd to see all the Wisconsin fans seated in the middle of the Notre Dame student section," another undergraduate rooter remarked. "It's our home ice advantage, not theirs." 
The players' comments were equally negative. "I'd say that a big blunder was made in not seeing that those tickets were going to Wisconsin fans." co-captain Paul Regan said. 
"It might have been a bit of an advantage to us in that it got our fans ·up,' " Ian Williams stated. "But it was very disappointing to see so many Wisconsin fans there." . . 
John Noble bluntly expressed his feelings. "Seeing all those W1sconsm people made me sick to my stomach," he said tersely. "I was upset because /some of our fans that wanted to see the games couldn't get in," coach Smith said. "Wisconsin gives us 100 tickets for 
John Noble's hat trick helped the Irish turn Wisconsin topsy-turvy. Here, Notre Dame's all-time career 
games up there and, in the future, that's what they'll get for games here." 
scoring leader flips a rebound over the .Badgers' frustrated goalie, Jim Makey.
While Bouffard and the folks in the ticket office can't be absolved from allowing such a situation to take place, they shouldn't be wantonly con­demned. either. One must remember that it's their job to sell tickets. 
Knockouts spice Bengals action
They'd naturally prefer to sell them to Notre Dame fans. But selling them to anyone is better than having empty seats. by Mike Hansen 
The 160-pound division gave the floored senior Pat Halton at :45 ofAlthough it seems inconceivable that there would have been any crowd three of the six knockouts, the third round. Lacrosse star Jimunoccupied seats for the Wisconsin series, especially in view of the t~r­Six technical knockouts and all of which were accomplished by Lepley showed that he was also a nouts for the North Dakota and Michigan State games, the fact remams three split decisions highlighted first-year boxers. Sophomore standout in the ring when he tookthat almost 1,000 Badger supporters were in more of a hurry to buy first round action in the 42nd an­Kevin Poupore was responsible for 
.. 
advantage of a lapse in defense ontickets that Notre Dame fans. nual Bengal Bouts Sunday af­I he quickest knockout in the the part of Pangborn sophomore
As anyone who saw last weekend's games would readily admit, it'd be ternoon in the Athletic and Con­division, putting 1972 quar­Tom Wilbur in the first round and 
difficult to find a better entertainment buy. With the student admission vocation Center. IPrfinalist Paul Larsen on the went on to register a 
third round
price of $1, thrills cost about a half-cent ppiece. . One of the biggest crowds to canvas at 1:15 of round two. 
TKO in 1:15. The. fourth fight inAlthough ticket prices for ththoped-lor~layoff senes next week at Notre watch the quarterfinals in recent Flanner freshman Chet Zawalich, the division was awarded to juniorDame have been upped to $2, because of a WCHA rule, there should be no vears-1865-also saw one of the lhe only first-year student left in Jerry Samaniego by a unanimoushesitancy on the part of Irish hockey fans to buy up the available suppl:r. most exciting cards that meet the fights. proved he was the decision over Earl Hackley.
Hopefully, both the ticket office and the student body have learned their director Dominick J. <Nappyl classiest novice boxer as his 
(continued on page 11)

lesson. Napolitano has matched. aggressive punching finally 




