--------------------------------------------------------------------------~--.-------------------~ 

On The Inside 
A weekend of music ..... page 9 
Irish sports ..... pages 10, 11, 12 

serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VII No. 87 Friday, February 23; 1973 

SMC rap 
Dbs..-ver lnsirjht 
Student govt's decaying in midwest universities 
by Tom Drape Staff Reporter 
A trend towards dysfunc­tional student governing bodies due to student apathy is the result of an Observer survey of major area universities. 
As Campus Editor, Bill Holstein, of the Michigan State Daily states, "We're just waiting for it <student government) to roll over and die." 
General consensus is that student governments are evolving into a single, powerless, function--to make appointment to·· powerful llniversity committees. 
"This," said Barb Burgetts of the Indiana Daily, "is where the student power has ended up at the University of In­diana." 
The student government arrangements surveyed ('Onsist of an executive arm and a Student Senate in \'arying degrees. These are ('Omparable to Notre Dame's executive offices and Student Life Council. 
Purdue's Exponent editor, Bill Moore. describes their Student Senate as "a com­pletely meaningless body--no power whatsoever." 1\lichigan. Illinois. and MSU ar(' a little less critical yet offer similar sentiments. 
The election systems at thl'se universities are the same. calling for one general \'Ole except in case of a tie. This differs from Notre Daml''s optional two-vote nwthod, which provides for a· possible second ballot in the l'Vent that no candidate receives more than fifty percent of the votes on the first ballot. 
In addition to their spring 
election. Illinois has had to run 
two special elections due to 
resignations. Purdue was 
forced to hold a special 
election in order to cut it! 
Student Senate in half. 
Purdue's Moore explained the necessity of the election by saying. "We needed to reduce the representatives from 54 to 27 members just so that they might accomplish something." 
All of the schools surveyed 
required few qualifications for 
office. 
The University of Michigan doesn't even require that the student body president be a student. which describes their present situation according to Michigan Daily's Editor Chris Parks. 
Their president dropped ''lasses at the semester. 
Ohio State admits that their Student Assembly is lucky if half of the members appear, according to Ohio Lantern City I<:ditor. Dan Stanowick. 

Stanowick observed that any directed interest springs from individual or group interests. Their president and vice­president tickets are entered <md supported by special in­terest groups. 
Illinois University at Champaigne-Urbana student paper. the Illini Daily, reports t~~ their student government powers stem directly from the l'niversity. 
Public Affairs Editor, Ed Epstl'in. said. "The University recognizes student govern­nwnt only to make appoints to llniversity committees." 
t<:pstein describes Illinois' tlndergraduate Student Association as a "left-wing organization." Their main 
€.'Xecutive board is called the 
Steering Committee which 
receives little attention or 
respect from the un­
dergraduate student body. 
All the campuses contacted 
conduct elections in the spring 
semester except for the 
University of Michigan, which 
elects half of its student 
government council in the fall, 
and half of the 18 member 
council in the spring. 
The Associated Student 
Government of MSU hardly 
looks to its officers in exerting 
a leadership role, observed 
Holstein in regard to the status 
of student executives. 
"The Associated Students have two. and only two responsibilities," said Campus J<:ditor BiH Holstein. "One is to make appointments to llniversity committees and secondly to distribute funds." 
Jt:ndorsement procedures <md platform space are also ('onsidered passe by several of the Universities. Indiana and Ohio State were the only ('ampuses which admitted to both platform space and en­dorsements. The Michigan Daily does not provide plat­form space but will make individual endorsements. 

Because of their elections being classified as "no big deal".. the Michigan State Daily no longer has a policy toward elections at all. Ac­l'OI'ding to Holstein, "it's Pnough to run an article at l•lection time." 
Illinois' Illini Daily will only go as far as individual en­dorsements due to the small \'oling turnouts and the con­sistent entry of "non-serious" l'andidates. said Public Affairs <'ditor Ed Epstein. 
Campaign trails open; 8 of 13 begin 
by Tom Drape Staff Reporter 
Student Body President and Vice President election campaigns officially opened last night at 6:00p.m. with eight out of thirteen sets of candidates making ap­pearances across campus. 
Campaigning techniques varied from formal presentations to informal discussions to door-to-door electioneering. Candidates may conduct campaigns until the deadline, 2 a.m., Tuesday, Tuesday, February 27. 

Only one election violation was reported to the Ob­server's Election Central concerning the hanging of Hess-Davis posters forty-five minutes before the six o'clock opening. According to Greg Smith, the election committee will probably meet sometime today to decide if any action should be taken. 
The Carlson-Kastelic team met informally with students last night at Badin and Alumni halls. Their weekend plans are undecided. 
Nollet-Goetz did not actively campaign last night. Weekend campaign plans are undecided. 

Moskowitz-Clemency met with students at Morrissey, Flanner, Walsh, and Kennan informally last night. The candidates' weekend plans include door-to-door campaigning tonight and hall ap­pearances on Sunday. 
Galloway-Batow were not active last night. Plans for this weekend are undetermined. 
Brennan-Tyrrell announced their candidacy last night in the basement of Fisher and later at the Senior Bar. They plan to remain inactive over the weekend. 

Clarke-Singleton opened their campaign last night with a press conference in the South Dining Hall. They also met with students at Nickies and Corby's. Their weekend plans are also unscheduled. 
Wojcieszek-Wordal were active at Breen-Phillips and Alumni Halls. Plans for the weekend include visits to Dillon and Morrissey Saturday afternoon, St. Joe, Moreau, and Old College Sunday afternoon, and Badin, Lyons, Pangborn, Holy Cross, Walsh, and Howard on Sundav nie:ht. 
Kubick-Mason campaigned with students at St. Ed's, Howard, Dillon, Badin, and Morrissey Halls last night. Weekend schedules are not available. 
Hess-Davis began their campaign last night with Hess appearing in Badin and Davis visiting Fisher and Pangborn. Plans for the weekend are unscheduled except for a Sunday night visit at Kubiacks. 
Mastro-Fenton were not actively campaigning last night. Their plans for the weekend include door-t<Kioor politicking. 
Sorge-Manigault met with students at Farley, Walsh, and Fisher last night. Tonight they will be going door­to-door on the North Quad, Saturday night on the South Quad, and unscheduled appearances Sunday night. 
Gonsalez-Burke were not active last night. Plans over the weekend are door-to-door campaigning. Wesolowski-Angeluzzi were inactive last night and have no scheduled plans for the weekend. 

Student turnout at hall appearances were described as generally light by the candidates' staffs. Par­ticipation is expected to heighten over the weekend. 
The Observer's·coverage of the elections will con­tinue over the weekend. A random poll will be taken Sunday by the Observer and released Monday. 
The order in which the above candidates are placed was decided by matching a randomly drawn name with a randomly drawn number. 
Ticlcet  Hdqr:s No.  
Brennan~fyrrell  1927  
Carlson-Kastelic  2:14-9878  
('lark -Singleton  1(;41  
Galloway-Batow  (i755  
Gonzalez-~Burke  1:U2  
Hess-Davis  1065  
Kubik-Mason  1157  
1\lastro-Fenton  1734  
1\1oskowitz-Clemency  1861  
Nollet-Goetz  1412  
Sorge-Maraigault  79()1  
Wl'slolowski-Angeluzzi  8427  
Wojcieszek~Wordal  ·  8144  

---The order of candidates was determined alphabetically by presidents' names. 




warld 
Washington---The United States and China took a step toward full diplomatic relations with the announcement that each government would soon open a liaison office in the other's capital. At anews con­ference elaborating on the joint communique issued in Peking and Washington, Henry A. Kissinger said that additional steps to "ac­celerate" improved relations had been agreed to. 
Tel Aviv---Israel's Defense Minister Moshe Dayan said the loss of 
brl.ef• 
more than 100 lives in the downing of a Libyan airliner over the Sinai Desert was a "tragedy," and placed the blame on the airliner's pilot _. for ignoring repeated instructions to land. 
~ In Cairo, tapes of the French pilot's last communications with the --.= Cairo Control Tower indicated he thought ):\e was still over Egyptian ~ territory and that the Israeli jets were Egyptian MIG fighters. 
. ~ •­
~ Washington--Urging'~ reluctant Congress to cooperate with his ~ spending policy, President Nixon used his economic "State of the 
• Union" message to defend his efforts on behalf of the poor, the sick, 
~  the aged and the hungry. He said spending for the groups had soared  
from 66 to 242 per cent during his years in office, and he warned that  
·  "unless we cut back now on the programs that have failed, we will  
~  soon run out of money for the programs that have succeeded." The  
(C) 1973 New York Times  i  _ :::_  message contained no new disclosures, but the President promised to submit a program of tax reform.  
Palm Springs, Cali/.---Winthrop Rockefeller, John D. Rockefeller's  
playboy grandson who became governor of Arkansas, died Thursday.  
He was 60 years old and had been hospitalized since February 15.  



1-4 p.m. showing, isis gallery 3:30p.m. lecture, the logical structure of fiction by john searle, library auditorium 
4:30 p.m. meeting, student coalition for human amendment, l·C 
Iafortune 6,8, & 10 & midnight movie, the revengers, kc hall 7p.m. basketball, indiana h.s. sectionals, ace 7:30p.m. hockey,n.d.vs. wisconsin,acc 7:30p.m. movie, the kid, architecture bldg., free 8 & 10 p.m. movie, decameron, engineering auditorium 8:30p.m. play, after the rain, washington hall 9:00p.m. party, splash party, rockne pool, free 
sat. 24 

10 a.m. & 2p.m. play, alice in wonderland. little theatre, moreau haiL 
smc 2-4 p.m. rap sess1on, pre-law society, 2nd floor Iafortune 6, 8, 10, & midnight movie, the revengers, kc hall 7:30p.m. hockey, n.d. vs wisconsin, ace 8p.m. concert. paul winter consort. o'laughlin auditorium, smc 8 & 10 p.m. movie, fools, holy cross hall (nd l 8:15p.m. concert, philidor trio, library auditorium 8:30p.m. play, after the rain, washington hall 
sun. 25 
2 p.m. boxing, bengal bouts, ace 

2 & 4 p.m. play, alice in wonderland, little theatre, moreau hall, smc 
6 & 8 p.m. meeting, evelyn wood reading dynamics, center for con­tinuing education 7p.m. movie, les enfants du paradis, carroll hall, smc 8 & 10 p.m. movie, yellow submarine, o'laughlin auditorium, smc 8 & 10 p.m. movie, fools, engineering auditorium 
New semester p-oposed Dr. Henry confers with SMC Student Assembly
by Mary Janca Staff Reporter 

Ideas concerning nursing, possible off campus study and the feasibility of a 4-1-4 semester were discussed informally last night by the St. Mary's Student Assembly and President Edward Henry. 
The nursing program, which will be directed by Dr. Mary Martucci, is expected to be the largest program on campus in four to five years. according to Martucci. Its graduates will be accredited in_ other states besides Indiana. 
The program will begin next fall with a unique curriculum. It is unique, ·according to Martucci, because it will be affiliated with the science department the first two years, and because .l)tudents participated in its formulation. 
1\lartucci hopes to maintain 50 
students from each class in the 
program. which will be open to 
freshmen and sophomores. Of the 
incoming freshmen, 119 have in­
dicated an interest in nursing. 
A one semester study program in 
Tucson, Arizona will probably 
begin in September according to 
Dr. Henry. The 20 students who 
enroll will have six hours of 
required courses, theology, 
philosophy and possibly a course in 
the history and culture of the 
southwest. A studio art course may 
be offered through the Tucson Art 
School.l and practice teaching 
arrangements have been made 
with public and private schools in 
the area. Henry said. 
He advised interested students to 
register dually for the program 
and St. Mary·s.~ so that they will 
have a choice if accepted in the 
FRIDAY 
MARCH 23 
8:00 pm at the ACC 
Ticket Prices 
Bleachers..... 3.00 Lower Arena ... 4.50 
Floor Seats...  5.50  
Platforms.....  5.50  
Loge...........  5.50  


Tucson program. depth. 
Political science majors may be However, St. Mary's could not able to spend up to two semesters tdopt this schedule if Notre Dame m Washington, D.C., in another does not do so as well, Henry program beginning second stated. But St. Mary's could semester next year. Another shorten its Christmas break, and program in Ireland is a possibility, hold the "short semester" between Henry said, for students who wish Christmas and the resumption of to travel to an English speaking classes Jan. 17. Students could be foreign country. required to take two of thes~ 
"The 4-1-4-schedule," said semesters during their four years Henry, "gives more flexibility and of college. reduces the scatteration of "We can do this without serious courses." It is desgined to cut class disruption of our relations with work to four courses so that Notre Dame." Dr. Henry con­students can study them in more eluded. 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIr 
Co-ex tickets 


Feb-23 Feb.-24 Feb.-25 Feb.-26 Feb.-27 Feb.-28 
March -1 March -2 March -3 Keenan. Lyons. Breen-Phillips Alumni, Zahm. Pangborn Stanford. Howard, Sorin, St. Ed's Morrissey. Cavanaugh, Holy Cross l'"'lanner. Walsh, Old College Dillon. F'arley, Badin Keenan. Lyons, Breen-Phillips Alumni, Zahm, Pangborn Grace. Fisher 
Box Office Opens Monday 
at gate 10 of ACC 9-5 
MAIN CHURCH SUNDAY MASSES 
5: 15 p.m. Sat. 
9:30 a.rn. Sun. 
10:45 a.m. Sun. 
12:15 p.m. Sun. 

Fr. Robert Griffin, CSC Fr. Andrew Ciferni, 0. Praem Fr. Nathan Mitchell Fr. William Toohey, C.S.C. 
"Evensong" vespers at 4:30 Sunday. Confessions are heard before each weekday mass and from 7:00 to 7:30 
p.m. Monday through Saturday. 
~ 
HootS, 

M~ -TUES -TlMl -Fll 
, AN. 5:30 P'M W!D -l>AT 9 AN. 12 NOON COMI'LETE ~f:!CTACLf



RoGERS 
SElVICE AlL E'l! DR.'S PlfSCRirTION$ HONOIEt 
Cal!
Optic31 
289-7809
lOGE~ ATWRL-OWNI!I 
IIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII;:IIl:::III::II::III::II:::IIII:.:I::III:,:II::III::,:IIN::1::11::11H::11:::11.:111::11::111::111::11::111::11::111_.::=:==============================:=:::. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester ( 14 per year> from The Db­server, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 
HE BOUGHT SIX MEN OUT OF HELL AND THEY BROUGHT IT WITH THEM. THESE ARE THE 



IBVB.&BISI 

WILLIAM BOLDU ·BIUIBST BOB8Rdl WOODY STBODI· iUSU BAYWABD 
!t"TBB BBVBIIGBBS"~j 
The REVENGERS 
at the 

KNIGHTS OF 
COLUMBUS 

Friday, February 23 and Saturday, February 24 
6, 8, 10 pm and midnight 
Donation $1.00 
MEMBERS FREE 

3
Friday, F~bruary 23, 1973 the observer 
Profs discuss new ~nedical program 


bv Marlene Zloza s"enior Reporter 

"Because of the changing pat­tern of medical training, a new program is almost a necessity," said Professor William T. Liu, eoncerning the Committee to Heview the Preprofessional Programs' recommendation to l'Stablish a new Human and Behavioral Sciences program. 
This new interdisciplinary program coincides with the new focus on community medicine which has been developed at sE.'veral mE'dical schools. 
"I am somewhat familiar with llnrvard. Johns Hopkins, and the llniversity of Southern Califor­nai." said Liu, chairman of sociology and anthroplogy, "and they have experimented with <·ommunity medicine, instead of clinical. as the focus of studies. This E'mphasis is on knowing your· patients in their environment and it develops a new breed of students." 
Liu described a behavioral sciE.'nce department which has courses set up to help students see the social and psychological aspects of illness and the "cult of belief system." 
"There are many examples of traditions and ideas concerning nwdicine that people still hold as truth. even though there is no nroof 
Hentoff gives speech on govt surveillance 
by Greg Rowinski 

Staff Reporter 1984 may be closer than Pleven years as a result of secret surveillance, but the timl' 'ls right for citizen awareness. not fear. 
These remarks were among those made by Nat Hentoff, mt'mber of the New York Civil 
Liberties  Union  Board  of  
Directors,  last  night  in  the  
Library Auditorium  to  an  

audience of 45. 
His lecture. entitled "The Watched Society", was sponsored by the Student Union Academic Commission and dealt with the extensive amount of surveillance being done by the government and private organizations and the threat it poses for the Bill of Hights. 
Hentoff stated, however, that there are courses of ac­tions that can be taken to avoid the ('Stablishment of a "garrison state." 
Hentorf warned that the number of dossiers being compiled raises the fear of government repression, with the threat of greater harm being done than that of the 1\lcCarthy era. 


TOMORROW 
8:00 in O'Laughlin Auditorium 
THE PAUL WINTER CONSORT 
Good seats available at the door (general admission) 
...sponsored by Student Union. 
Information is being fed into national data banks for government consumption and use. on such varied subjects as participation in mass arrests, nwdical records, and income !"<'turns. The accuracy of this information is never checked, }[(•ntoff added. 
These and other surveillance devices are an outgrowth of the nation's fear of disorder in the streets. The citizenry, with public order their chief con­cern. are disregarding the implications for civil liberties. 
l!('ntoff stated repeatedly, during his seminar-type presentation. that he didn't want the public to scare themselves but rather to be aware of the dangers to the Bill of Rights and other amendments. 
All is not lost, however, ('mphasized the bearded professor. because action is still possible through the courts and the Congress. Though the conservative composition of the Burger Court does have a "chilling pffect on lower courts", the 
(continued on page 5) 

of them." explained Liu. _ "Some Burtchaell suggested that a new work in this area has been donein program might "have more ex­
Appalachia and the doctors found they functioned better when they knew about people's life style and habits." 
Associate Professor John Borkowski. who is also acting chairman of the psychology department. identifies the present system as "loose and informal," allowing preprofessional students to take social science courses as ('lectives and build on their own interests. 
"We've even had some students preparing for medical studies that majored in psychology," claimed Borkowski. "most of which were interested in psychiatry or some area of research." 
Psychology courses that attract a lot of pre-professional students now include Physiological Psycho 1 o g y , A b norm a I Psychology, Mental Retardation and Statistics. 
Liu also mentioned that some sociology majors go on to medical school and that many medical majors enroll in social service (:ourses. such as Sociology of Health and Medicine and Social Psychology. 
"W(' offer a different perspective to the social structure of nwdicine." said Liu, "and I think the importance of this is evidenced by the fact that the chairman of the committee was a sociologist." 
llniversitv Provost Fr. James plicit attempts by social depart­

nwnts to include pre-professional 
students." 
He added that some take ad­
vantage of such subjects now and 
"actually make a pretty wide 
t•hoice of courses" as electives. 
"These students have thE' most 
generalized of all undergrad 
curriculums." 
Borkowski stressed that he 
"hasn't had any input into the 
recommendation and doesn't know 
the rationale behind it, but 
suggested such a program "which 
would be a loosening of depart­
mental restrictions which would 
allow for a broader area of study." 
"It would take a lot of basic work 
and cooperation between depart­
ments," said Borkowski, "but it 
makes sense to set up a program 
with courses that cut across many 
disciplines." 
Burtchaell stated that he had 
discussed the recommendations 
with the deans and was now in the 
process of getting the report ready for the Academic Council's con­· sideration. hopefully this spring. "The report was released now 
\Vith the hope that it would stir up a 
lot of discussion and thought," he 
said. 
Hegarding the problem of 
students pressured to get ex­
et'ptional grades to gain ac­
ceptance to medical schools, Liu 
ted "more serious conseling 



Our Mid-Winter Savings Event 
•
Keeps on go1ng 'n growing! 
True. True! We have included some brand new apparel in this clearance event...you'll save as much as one-half on university styled sweaters, shirts, sportcoats, suits, slacks and more. The great doubleknits, too! The sale is a good as ever, and that's great. 


PAY 
NEXT 

SUMMER 
Pay one third ih June, one third in July and one third in August. No service or 

ON THE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAME
carrying charge. 




NEW!! 
The year of the plaid 
We have a new shipment of the latest slacks from Kazzoo and Haggar...and plaids are it. Come see the Madras patterns, the handsome plaids in popular styles. All at popular prices. Make it your year...with plaids. 
and letters of recommendation." 
"l don't think the new program <'mphasis will help to change the anxiety !eve," Liu stated, "although a different focus may look very well on the transcript." 
"Grades vary with professors, and in large classes it is prac­tically impossible to evaluate 
Senior Bar 
Now accepting resumes for next year's manager. Deliver at bar Wed., Thurs., 
or Fri. after 7:00 pm Deadline: March 2. Info. 283-7521 
THE RED DOOR CLUB 
Stop in 
next 3 am time 
' 


youre thirsty 


W~t C!tulunial ­lfanrnkt ifnust 
"Enioy a snack or dinner" 
35 Varieties of Pancakes Chicken -Steak -Sandwiches 
U.S. 31 (Dixieway) North Your Host (Across from Holiday Inn) Bob Edwards '50 
stude~ts properly by a simple letter grade." claimed Liu. "What might help is an evaluation by professors at the end of each semester that could be deposited at a central place and utilized by graduating students if they wish. This would be a more qualitative than quantitative grading process." 
t' 
I 


------------~­
( 
~ 
( 

) 
I 
~ 
~ 
) 
t 
(' 
i 
( 
r f 
r 
r 
r 
r 
(
, 
f 
, 

fne observer Friday, February 23, 1973 
Farley banquet tomorrow 
by Tim Truesdell Stflf/ Reporter 

The 3rd Annual Farley Hall Banquet will be held tomorrow at li::lo p.m. in Stepan Center. Among the special guests will be Fr. llesburgh, Fr. Burchaell, Fr. Bier•:. Dr. Robert Ackerman and Fr. James Shilts, Rector of Farlev. 
Following the dinner, choral entertainment and a square dance will be presented. "We will also present the Golden Tennies Award but the recipients are a secret at this time," commented Bill Powers. resident of Farley. Powers also noted that a "special suprise" will take place toward the £'nd oi the proglam. 
Awards and activities at the banquet will be handled by two groups, the Farley Striders" and the "Farley Cyclers." Th~ 
Striders were established two volleyball. They have a combined years ago. the Cyclers last year, membership of about 150 on with the primary goal of bringing campus. people together for recreation and Further information about the 
social gatherings. 'Their activities banquet can be obtaiiHid frorn including\ "striking" or cycling either Bob Kelley or Bill Powers on around the lake and playing first floor Farley. 


Sadie Hawkins off 
by Mary Janca 
•· 

Saint Mary's Hall Life Com­mission has cancelled the Sadie Hawkins Dance scheduled for tonight "due to an insufficient response in ticket sales to make enough money that we could come close to clearing," according to Hall Life Commissioner Mitzi Tracy. 
By Wednesday night, only 38 of the anticipated 100 tickets were sold. 
Students who have bought tickets can receive a refund im­mediately by presenting their ticket t'J the hall representative who sold it, Tracy said. 

The commission lost ap­proximately $50 on the dance through publicity, decorations which were started, and printing of the tickets. Had plans for the "Sadie Hawkins" been carried out, Tracy estimates that about $300 to $350 would have been lost. 
Tracy attributes the apparent lack of student interest towards the dance to conflicting activities this weekend, particularly ND's hockey games against Wisconsin and a splash party to be held Friday night in the Rock. 
... ' . 
307 S ~I(H $1 STARTS TONIGHT 
•• 118·7100• • 
~ 
OPEN 6:15 

PLUS: CO-FEATURE 

NOTE: 
"CROMWELL" ONCE 6:30 

WITH TWAYOU GET 
MAT: SAT. & SUN. 
1:15 

EUROPE FORALMOST NOTHING, NEXT TO NOTHING, ANDABSOLUTELYNOTHING. 
ABOUT$50. 
This spring recess TWA has great, on double occupancy) Continental break­inexpensive city packages in London, Paris, fast, taxes and service charges. PI us 4 Rome, Athens and Amsterdam. For example, theatre tickets, admission to 6 discotheques, for $50 plus airfare you get 7 days in London, sightseeing, and more. Go before March 31 including a room with private bath, (based when prices go up. 

$4.30 A NIGHT. 
Only TWA gives you Stutelpass.* It's a $4.30 a night, no reservations needed. Plus coupon booklet that gets you a room and tickets good for meals and concerts and Continental breakfast in a guesthouse or lots of things. student hotel in any of 52 cities for only 


FREE. 

When you land in London, Paris, Rome, Madrid, Amsterdam or Frankfurt, just turn in your boarding pass at the TWA city ticket office within 24 hours ofyour arrival and you'll get a brochure full ofdiscounts up to 
LONDON. ' 

Free admission to any ten Greyhound Racing Tracks Free admission and drink at La Valbonne, oneofLondon's most terrific clubs Free breakfast at your choice of 10 Quality Inns Free pint of Watney's Red Barrel in your choice ofover40 London pubs 
50% off, as well as absolutely free things. Here, for example, are some ofthe absolutely free things in London and Paris. (Deals for the other cities will be available starting March 15.) 

PARIS. 
Free 2 hours of motorcycle rental Free latest-fad gift from Aux Eschelles de Saint Denis Free silk tote bag from La Gaminerie Free drink at Hippopotamus 
For more information see your Campus Rep or call TWA. 
WITH TWAIT PAYSTO BEYOUNG. 
':'Stu tel pass is a service mark owned exclusively by T'NA. 
I . \
1-..... .,,,..,_j-.., ............ ,.~~·-··t -.,.1~--··· ....-, .. ,~,\\·~­
. . .. .......
.,-•.•.. ·, i. ~ .. ,:, -~,' .· t ·, • ~ • ''·' ·--" .-
• ·'. I ............... .,
c.·, . ... . .· ....... -....... ,: ~ .... .: :.. ..... ; : .-:.. .... ·..... -.--..."_... -.. _....·;·: ~· ~ '_" .... : -; -: 
-..... -..... •• : -·: •• ·: ; • -: • -: • ; ': ~ ~ : ;. • "ol ... • 
-~-..... -· .. --...... -­
-. . . .. ... . . . . .. .. ~ .. ... . 

~~--~-~ -------------------------------------~.....-.------~----'-!1
-
Friday, February 23, 1973 • the observer 
5 
For Student Government 
REGAL NOTES 
UNDERSTAND PLAYS, NOVELS AND POEMS FASTER WITH OUR NOTES
Sorge urges legal status 
We're new and we're the bigestl Thousands af topics reviewed for quicker understanding. Our 
by Mary Egan Stuff Reporter 

Glenn Sorge and Juan 1\lanigault. candidates for Student Body President and Vice President. campaigned last night mainly on their proposal to make Student Government a legal corpor-ation. Each candidate covered 10 halls. to reach as many students as possible. 
If Student Government were a lt>gal corporation, it would have actual legal powers, meaning it could file suit. according to the candidates. However. Sorge st<1ted that the power would not be ; : ed merely as a means of confronting the University with legal action, hut that its main thrm·t would be its bargaining power in solving such problems as forcing people off ('ampus and protecting students' rights. 
Sorge said. "We're looking to get involved with the administration, to talk to them and work things nuL" 
Hentoll on govt 
(continued from page 3) 
ACLll" (American Civil Liberties Union l is still bat­tling for the rights of in­dividuals. 
r~ven a weak bill requiring notification of those with dossiers might serve as a ('atalyst for public action for !-ilronger laws and for the awakening of the courts. 
But until such legislation is ('nacted. the technology of surveillance will continue to be l'Oid to governmental agen­c:ies. As "the sensitivity to civil liberty continues to be utterly lacking in the subdued citizens of post-constitutional :\~'wrica". warned the reporter-author. Uncle Sam l'Ontinues more and more to resemble Big Brother. 

·subjects include not only English, but Anthro· pology, Art, Block Studies, Ecology, Eco·
"orge ··!aimed that SG could have 

nomics, Education, History, Law, Music,
the money to renovate LaFortune. 

Philosophy, Political Science, Psychology,
"There are plans now in the SLC 

Rei i gion, Science, Sociology and U rbon Prob­
to build a shopping mall between 

lems. Send $2 for your catalog af topics avail­St. Marv's and Notre Dame. SG 
able, REGAL NOTES
could rent space, have a student 

3160 "0" Street, N. W.
(.'O-op and sell to the students at low 

Washington, D. C. 20007
l'ost." he added. "We're not 

Telephone: 202-333-0201 
looking to make money, but to iwtter the University, the savings 

THE NOTRE DAME-ST. MARY'S THEATRE
(.'Ollld be passed on to the students." stated Sorge. Manigault said that students 

AFTER THE RAIN 
cton't realize that if they were 

JOHN BOWEN'S absorbing theatrical morality
united. they could get what they 

play surrounding events 200 years hence---after
want. with SG as a corporation. 
the rain.
As a corporation. SG would still use the structures such as the 

February 16, 17, 22, 23, 24 at 8:30pm
Student Life Council, Hall 

Washington Hall Notre Dame Campus
Presidents Council. the Academic 

Students, Faculty, Staff $1.50
Council. and th~ Student Union, but 

Reservations: 284-4176 (Business Hours)
add a legal staff including a <Jualified full-time accountant. 

283-7054 (Show Nights) ______,
---~----· 






PRE-LAW SOCIETY 
Informal rap with 15 former domers now at the Michigan, Chicago, Northwestern and Notre Dame Law Schools. Tomorrow 2-4 p.m. 2nd floor LaFortune. Refreshments. Come. 


"We want students to realize that as a legal entity, we would lt<n·e the legal power to challenge tlw University on matters per­tinent to students. At the same time. we as students must realize the large amount of potential a'.'ailable to us in workir.g with the administration,'' added l\1 anigault. 
"r,or example, last year it was brought to my attention the number of different ideas about ht•autifying the campus: however, no funds were available. As a legal hody. we could secure outside funds to assist the University in l'Uch Pndeavors." he continued. 
lking a non-profit organization, SG could then receive tax-free funds for off-campus housing, and could help the University carry l'Olll<' of its financial burdens. 




Rock Pool 
Friday Night Feb. 23 9-12pm ND/SMC Invited 
FREE 

(ID Cards Required) 

"Boogie" with Kevin O'Neill playing the tunes Guys:"Ed" can suit you Girls : Bring your bikinis 
* Sponsored b S. U. Social Commission 



by Dean Mayors Staff Reporter 
Calling for a major chang'-' in the structure of student government, Jim Clarke opened his campaign for the office of student body president last night with a prl'ss conference in the lobby of the South Dining Hall. 
Clarke and his running mate. Chris Singleton, un­folded a platform consisting primarily a plan to eliminate the offices of student body pn'sident and vice-president. In their place. Clarke proposed a system centering in the Hall Presidents Council. Said Clarke. "Once our new system is installed. we plan to resign." 
Singleton. president of Farley Hall. explained the rationale behind such a platform: "As a member of the HPC. I can say that our job is tough because we aren't sure of what our power is. 

~. 
Student government people and students come to us and ask us to do things that we're never sure we can do." 
Clarke stated that the HPC would be renamed the Student Association Council and would 

the observer Friday, February 23, 1973
6 

Clark~ Singleton plan resignation if elected 
function as the primary policy­making body in student government. The HPC chariman would function as chief spokesman for the student body and would serve as a "lobbyist" with the ad­
ministration. The council itself would expand to include three representatives from off­campus. 
Clarke further explained that the HPC chairman would appoint an executive coor­dinator to supervise student services and oversee the work of the student union and the various commissioners. Said Clarke. As we see it, the SBP has two functions--he for­
mulates policy. and he manages student services. We want to change the structure of student government to specialize in these two areas." Both candidates stressed -that they have no plans to be a part of the new government structure after it is im­plemented. "We want to be the last president and vice­presidl'nt." Clarke said, "and W(''rl' running mainly to put this new mechanism to work." Singleton responded to criticism that such a proposal d('prived the students of "dl'cted" leaders by stating, "The executive coordinator is really just a businessman." 
by Pattie Cooney Staff Reporter 

Sam Galloway and Dave Balow. candidates for Student Body President and Vice­President. are proposing to make Student Government work effectively for the students. "Student Govern-


Students on campus is Mastro-Fenton goo 
by Ted Guth Staff Reporter 
Stating that "we're running to keep the students on campus." junior Brian Mastro and Bill I<"'enton discussed their campaign platform for the top stud('nt offices in an interview last night. 
"Students have the right to live on campus," Mastro declared. "In order to achieve the "total education" of being a part of university life that Father Hesburgh has stressed, the student needs to have the option. and the right to live on campus." 
"Thl' other candidates are defeated by the University already--they've given up," Fl·nton added. 
1\lastro and Fenton are presenting six "concrete" proposals which they feel \\'ould allow all students the ehance to remain on campus. "The student don't have to be kicked off." Fenton asserted. 
Tll<'ir first suggestion was the possibility of using 1\lcC'andless Hall on Saint 1\lary's Campus as a Notre Dam<' dorm. Their pt·elim inary research has indicat('d that the idea is f('asible. if the girls presently living in McCandless are moved into Regina and 

Galloway: 'Get something done' 
mmt is there for the students and it's about time it got something done," said Galloway. 
Galloway and Batow's main reason for running is to see that something tangible gets done. It is their opinion that an administration should be able to look back on its term in office and be able to say it accomplished something. Instead of promising to im­prove communications bet­\\'('en students and the ad­ministration, or com­munications between student go\'ernment and students, they hope that positive action will bring this about. 
They have outlined a four point platform for their campaign. 
The first point would be an attempt to prevent some of the turmoil surrounding the picking of women's dorms on campus. "When the decision is made a list should be made available indicating the ap­proximate number of students coming in. how many students that would be dislocated, and how many would be willing to lllove off campus," Galloway <'xplained. All this could hopefully be done by the end of .January and workPd through the hall rectors. 
St•condly the candidates would like to see four to five percent of the funds from the howl games to go to intrahall athll'tics. These funds are presently earmarked for minority scholarships. Bato.w feels that some of these funds should be used to equalize the ratio between black men and women on campus. 
The third point involves installing "detect systems" similar to the one in Alumni, in the halls which shoow a need for one. This. Galloway feels, "could cut down on un­dersirables coming into the halls." The system would be 
in effect from  10 p.m. until 8  
a.m.  
The  final  plank  of  the  

platform is the revitalization of La Fortune Student Center. 

Galloway and Ratow: four points of "positive action." 
Augusta Halls, w 
present only part!: 
use of McCandle 
itself be sufficient 
thl' present crisis. 
l\lastro. 
Both. however, 
fact that the idea 
to have the coop 
support of both 
l\ll'Candless and tl 
I loly Cross before 
put into ('(feet. 
S<'condly. l\1; 
FPnton proposed 
Columba Hall, pr 
<·upied by some 60 
lloly Cross, a 
dt•rgraduate resid 
!\I astro suggestec 
tlw Brothers in tJ 
unoccupied spa< 
Cross Junior Cc 
notPd that he had 
g£'nerallv favorat 
from the Brother 
htis by no means 
<lilY acceptance. 
Hall could provi 
ditional on-campu: 
Point three invol 
Carrol Hall back 
d('t·graduate dorn 
COmlll('nted th; 
students should be 
to handle~hemselv4 
campus situation, 
1wenty-one and ha 
a ear." 
·llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllt 
All story placement or by lottery. Campaign~ was placed separatell Iimitations. 


Issue S1 
Night Editor: Joe Ab Asst Nite Editors: Bil Gallagher Day Editor: Bill Sohr Ad Specs: John Rum Ad Layout: Ken Toke Copy Editor: Mike B. Pictures: Jerome Phi Typists: Dave Rust. side, Mary Romer, Rich MeLoy Nite Controller: Harr 
(Staff photos by 

111111111111111111 III II I I 1111111I 





Gonzales, Burke place locus on social situation 
by Bob Johnson 
Staff Reporter 
Jose Gonzales, an English and Philosphy major, and Tim Burke. a government major, announced their candidacy for 
Student Body President and Vice-President yesterday t'\'ening. 
The two juniors stressed the need for improving social facilities as their first point. The existing facilities should I)(' redesigned to keep the student on campus, they suggested. instead of causing the student to leave the campus in order to find en­joyment. Gonzales cited the twwly opened Bulla Shed as a step toward this goal. 
Their main interest in the redevelopment of social facilities is the renovation of LaFortune. Gonzales and Burke feel that the LaFortune Hl'no\·ation Committee and the Committee on Campus Environment should join forces to study the LaFortune situation and the proposed mini-park as one. 
S<'condly. both would like to see an improvement of the off­campus living conditions. Contained in this proposal 

Off-campus st~dents also rank high on Gonzalez-Burke priority list. ' 
were two concerns. They would like to see the development of a food co-op, specifically for off-campus students. The continuous rise in prices, especially in the stock of high turnover goods was cited as the major reason for this proposal. Secondly, Gonzales and Burke feel that thl' list of available off campus housing could be improved. They contend that not enough people have their names and addresses published on the list because of the current five dollar fee required by the llniversity. 
Since the University is forcing some students off­campus. the office hopefuls f('e) that it should fund a more l'Xtensive housing list for these students. 
The candidates also ad­\'oca te the institution of legal ('Ounseling for students, and suggest that a committee be set up to study the proposal. 
Although law students cannot practice law. Gonzales said, they could give advice to students as they do to South 
Bend residents. 


Academics are primary concE Of Carlson-Kastelic cam.Paig. 
by Terry Keeney Staff Reporter 

SBP candidate Ray Carlson and SBVP running-mate Tom Kastelic explained their ab­sl'nce from the Student <iovernment candidates nweting Wednesday night in <1~ informal appearance last mght at Alumni Hall. "It was not our fault we weren't th('re." Carlson insisted. "Student Government had said they had planned no organizational meeting for the candidates." Carlson termed t.he incident "a misun­~derstanding" and refused to 
make'an \i§sue of it. 
Carlson <tnd i Kastelic em­phasized the academic planks of their platform: They proposed a January in­dependent study program and a )('ave of absence program. 
The independent study plan would allow a student to pursue any type of project or l'l'Sl'arch that would interest him for four Wl'eks in January. "A Spanish major could spend ePnt rat(' on a project dealing with liberal arts.'' Kastelic point out that such a program has met with success at other :-;chools around the country, including some larger than 
tlw  four  Wl'eks  in  Mexico."  
Kast l'l ie  suggested.  "The  
seH'tH.'l'  major  could  con­ 

Notn' Daml'. 
The leave of absence program would permit students to take time off to !('ave the university and guarantee them admission upon return." "At present once you leave they don't have to let you in." claimed Kastl'lic. 
Carlson related his own l'Xperience in trying to gain re­admission after a leave of absencl'. He asserted that many students are denied re­admission once they leave. This program would free the 
individual  student  from  the  
l'Xisting  uncertainty  of  
rt'turning  to  Notre  Dame  

should he decide to leave for 
rinant•i<tl. emotional. or othl'r n•asons. 
Til(' two candidates an­
nounc('d their go proving the quality l'ntertainment. musical. Carlso more social activ smaller level. He that student tale11 morl' often and that Cl'nt('r be put to me use. H(' also felt t governtn('nt movie: free of charge. " why. with the high : people have to movies." 
Hess-Davis ticket def1 
by David Rust Staff Reporter 
SBP hopeful Mike Hess launched his campaign in Badin hall last night by blasting contender Jim Clarke's plan to abolish the stud('nt government organization in favor of the Hall Presidents Council. 
IIPss. whose running mate l\likl' Davis spent the night ean\'assing Fischer and P;mgborn halls, went door to door with sophomore John lluncke and Badin freshman B('tsy Fallon telling Badin t'('Sidents of his reservations eoncerning Clarke's plan. 
"I think what Bob Kersten did this year was to prove studl'nt government could accomplish things without taking itsl'lf too seriously." said JI('SS. executive COOr­dinator of the Kersten ad­ministration. 
II(' cited a list complishments thi: Committee on t Privateering IC.C man's lnvesitga ePrning Cruel Or U registration !H.I.C the proposed bus-s and th(' governm€ lohhying in thE !('gislatur(' to lowe agt' of majoritv to 1 thl' drinking ~ge. 
"CiarkP's propo 
-
Friday, February 23, 1973 the observer 
7 




Twenty-seven planks in Nollet.Goetzseek Brennan-Tyrrell platform 'Five Year Plan'
rl 

;hich are at by Maria Gallagher y filJed. The St. Mary's Editor 'SS would in SBP and SBVP hopefuls Jim 

lor development

t to al1eviate 
"Zero" Brennan and Patrick according to "Redman" Tyrrell officially declared their candidacies last 
stressed the by Mike Rizzo Nollet and Goetz feel that a
night and revealed a 27--point 
Staff Reporter

would have platform to be implemented if plan wherein the University 
would set up a comprehensive

)eration and thev succeed. 
the girls in Speaking to a small crowd of A "Five Year Plan" con­course of action several yearssisting of a comprehensive
he Sisters of supporters in the basement of in advance would allow 
course of action for University students to plan their

~ it could be Fisher Hall, Brennan and development. is the most vital residence with security. By
Tyrrell laid particular em­need in the upcoming ~·<'ar.

astro and phasis on all 27 points. If setting female quotas and 
noted SBVP candidate announcing dorm picks inthe use of elected. they would propose

·esently oc­Michael Goetz last night. advance, new female dorms
the following: 

t Brothers of Speaking for SBP candidate could be phased out over a
---n•zoning Saint Joseph Don Nollet and himself, Goetz period of time.

s an un­Countv to make it part of 
ience Hall. said that advance setting of Nollet. himself an off
1\lichigan.

i relocating "Wl''ve waited too long for female quotas and an­campus resident, feels the need he presently the age of majority change in nouncements of dorm switches for University facilities for off ~e in Holy would allow students greater campus students. There is the 
Indiana." Brennan stated. 

)liege, and Sl'Cllrity . twed for an adequate off
---staing all pep rallys at the 

I recieved a Nolle! and Goetz hope to campus office and food co-op
grotto

)le reaction promote an activist student and an off campus "rip­
---proposing Marcel Mar­

·s, aithough government. both in elected off"-type bureau. The "rip-­
ceau.to head the Notre Dame nl('mbers of in the student off" bureau could giverepresented language department

Columba body next year. The major economic and residential
---an all-expense paid trip !O 11<111 of l<'ame 
baseball coach, Bill Fitch to issues they feel confronting

ad­advice to students.
de 110 l\1 ichiga n for Governor ---"seven and seven" in all "lt>ach Digger how to control students concern campus Since University parietals beds. Whitcomb's daughter for three 
lved turning the water fountains his temper:" Joe Kuharic "to housing, twenty-four hour policy is set. and hall en­
\"('a rs until she's twenty-one ---rt>quired morning and t('ach Ara a winning parietals, Fortune forcement variable, Nollet feels 
into an un-· ---hiring a gynecologist for La 
<'Vt>ning mass tradition; "and Frank Rizzo rt>novation. off campus living, there is a definite need for 24­
n. Fenton female students, a urologist 
In compliance with the "to teach Arthur Pears what
at "grad and the "Five Year Plan." hour parietals. In light of the 
for the males. and a veter­

Obs<>rver survey, Brennan and security is all about." The major fault of the
, better able Lewis Hall incident, Nollet
narian for Zahm and Sorin 

t>S in an off­Tyrrell also listed persons they The theme of the campaign, l rniversity in the past has been expects wtde campus support
---"reinstallation of the 

would name to various campus in Brennan's words, will be "A
as most are the haphazard management of for this plank of his· campaign.
Baltimore Catechism" 

positions after their election. vote for Zero is a vote for affairs. "The way things are
ve access to LaFortune renovation also
---doubling the enrollment by "Our first appointment will nothing." 

now. nothing is done in ad­eoncers the candidates. Theyadmitting only schizophrenics be to name Fat Eddie head of "Let your votes go for vance." stated Goetz. "Some will push for a pizza parlor or a

---gladiator fights every

i111111111111111111111 the Social Commission," nought." Tyrrell urged students have had to move two 
n<'w Huddle dining room. and
Saturday in the stadium Brennan declared. He also students. "Better a redman years in a row and next year an entire change of at­---installation of a Dirtball 

, this page was proposed Leo Durocher for than an illiterate." th('y may get hit again." mosphere for the center. 
story on page 5 y due to space 
Moskowitz team Wojcieszek, Wordal offer tall stresses stand on more voice in government
•ell 
II Brink. Maria 
n"f by Marlene Zloza incorporate a poll taker into Wojcieszek-Wordal platformIJach Senior Reporter their government to find out advocates returning the body
Women's Rights
Jlish, Joe Abell 
Beginning their campaign how students feel about cer­to a "forum for discussing hall 

aum • 
1ilips with the theme of "an open tain issues and why. problems" and no longer Diane Cherm door to Student Government," The last idea Wordal· considering it a policy-making
Tom Modglin, 
by Tom Drape Their Women Right's plank SBP hopeful Alice Wojcieszek detailed was a monthly visit to group. . is a number one priority with and SBVP candidate Blake l'ach residence hall by a Wojcieszek came out in
·y Chung 
Staff Reporter the candidates. "We want to Wordal visited several halls nl('mber of Student Govern­favor of retaining the SLC in emphasize women's rights on Thursday night to reveal their ment. which Wojcieszek said its present form. "I think it has this campus," said Moskowitz. plans for Student Government would "I rv to solicit views and worked better this vear and we
Jim Hunt) 
"In fact. they shouldn't have structuring, campus social life questions· of the students and l1eed someplace for students. 1111111111111111111111 to I)(' put in terms of 'Rights' t(' and eoeducation policies. keep communication lines faculty and administration to 
Challenging the University's begin with." the SBP can­"We are running to open open." get together and exchangein loco parentis policy and didate added. Student Government up to the Concerning the HPC, the t h('ir views." she said. emphasizing their Women's The candidates encountered students because to have a Hights stand. SBP candidate questions at all three ap­\·oic('. they must be heard by Proposed by Mason, Kubik 
~rn .Joe Moskowitz and his running IWarances concerning a those who can take their ideas mate. Bob Clemency, met with 1\lichigan-located bar and a to th(' administration," stated students at Morrissey, Drug Analysis Center. Wojcieszek. a junior from 
Flamlt'r. and Walsh Halls last CIPmPncy explained the Chicago, Illinois. 

Decadence 

night. student bar in Michigan as Wordal echoed this theme in
n "We hope to create more of a h('ing similar to the Senior Bar Alumni Hall. calling students by David Kaminski ypry educational experience in campus community," said and a "replacement for "the most important part of Staff Reporter the directions that our society, lal of im­1\loskowitz in reply to I ,a Fortune. a place where the system here and we have technology and life styles are
Matt Kubik and Gordon 

r of student questions concerning the stud('nts would not feel they for the most part been taking," Kubik said.
1\lason took their "New Age of

especially social planks of their platform. \H'rt> intruding." ignored." Kubik and Mason again
Decadence" campaign to St. 

m proposed; "The points of our platform The Drug Analysis center "Alice and I will fight to stressed the importance of the 
Ed's. Howard. Dillon, Badin,

rities on a r('garding parietals. women's would analyze suspect drugs push student ideas into pl'Otection of students' rights.
and Morrissey Halls last night,

• suggested rights. and a student bar in hrought to it and report on realities." said Wordal, who "When the Student 1\fanual
as they explained that

t1 be used I\Iichigan would hopefully their chemical composition. In then outlined a three-point was being written." Kubik
decadence was an intellectual 

t LaFortune change the University's in loco explanation of the center, plan dedicated to "deal more said, "there was a procedural
concept.

)fe efficient par·entis policy," he said. 1\Ioskowitz pointed to it's use dfectively with the ad­protection clause included."
Mason commented, "In The

hat student \'-P candidate Clemency atid.viability at other schools. ministration." However. Fr. Burtchaell
Svm bolist Movement int 

·s should be added to Moskowitz's "The center would merely be a Th(' first step is a manpower Yetoed it because he thought
r:iterature. Arthur Symons

'I don't see eomm('nt by saying, "It is realization that it <drug usage> increase in the ombudsman that such things weren't
describes decadence to be

student fee, tinw the University gave us a exists." said Moskowitz. office. "to get student ideas as needed at a Catholic
· ... All the thrill of unsatisfied. 

' pay for l·hance to prove that we can Added Clemency. it would be w<'ll as com pia ints." Secondly. llniversity. The events of the
,·irtue masquerading as un­

take care of ourselves." a needed 'safety measure". \\'ojcieszek and Wordal would past year have shown us that
eompr('hended vice.' When you think about it. that pretty Wl' do in fact need such a 
protection clause."
~n'll describes the Notre Dame 
Explaining his idea for astudent." 
public defender of the


ends Kersten administration 
In St. Ed's Hall. Kubik. 
students. Kubik said. "The
revealed the idea of a two 
public defender would assure
week comprehensive seminar 
that the rights and due process 

of its ac­like it would cause more Tlw Hess-Davis platform night 1election day eve l in the on the future. 
of a student accused of a

s year: the problems than it would solve." provides for greater par­halls. ··in the past. we have taken, 
,·iolation would not be in­

Jnorthodox continued Hess. "If vou get ticipation by the HPC in what Tlw former WSND staffer tim<' out for strikes. for 
fringed upon."

).U.P. >, H­the IIPC as the. only lless would rename the had to field a full spectrum of moratoriums. and demon­
ltion Con-"WP do not intend to set up a
association on campus. I see "Student Association." The quest ion last evening, in strations. Now that the 
1nusual Pre­studl'nt government in op­
one of two things happening: platform promises to "make eluding inquiries concernin~ \'iPtnam War is over. we 
;.c.O.U.P. >. position to the Administration.
either the HPC would get so the HPC chairman a Cabinet the creation of his campaign should take time to ask our­
:top shelter. Wt• wish to work with the
involved in hall problems that office with office space in poster which deptics Hess and ~Plves. ·wtwre do wt> go from 
Administration 
0

~nt's active hl'r<'·~ ..
campus-wid(' things. such as !.aFortune.'' I>a vis in a Butch Cassidy and e Indiana tlw Student llnion. would be ll<•ss invited Clarke and the tlw Sundance Kid pose. It ··f<:n't'y dt>partment of ever~ "Yl't. a healthy Student­
•r Indiana's ignored. or the Council would ot hl' r p r e s ide n tiaI-vic e promotl'S the pair as "Now coll<'ge could. with specia1 Administration relationship 
8. including must be characterized by
gPt so <•ntanglPd in campus­pn•sidential candidates to "a Hunning" and promises ~p<•akl'rs and projects. help u~ \\ ide activities that the halls st•ri<'s of public discussion." to ''Fantasv." ''Drama." l'xplm·p what the future has i~ mutual respect for basic lSal s('ems \\OUJd Sllffl'r." lw Iwld possibly this 1\londav ··Horror·· ·,md "Comedy." ston• for us. This could be a human rights." Kubik said. 

~-­

the observer Friday, February 23, 1973
8 


Letters Ta Fl Lanely Ciad 

the rose thief 

Once upon a time, there was a girl who used to bring me roses in the afternoon. They were borrowed roses. stolen from a Cardinal's tomb; but they smelled as swt'et as roses grown in a convent of the Carmelites for feast days of the Sacred Heart. For a long while now. there has been no theft of roses from the Cardinal's tomb: hut still, in the afternoons, the rose thief comes, bearing sweetness as though she were 

) 
herself a rose. and I am honoured in my own heart by her beauty. 
But soon now. after graduation, I will have neither roses nor rose theif. and the sweetness will be gone from the afternoon, I never t·eally needed all those roses, but I will never stop needing the thief who brou~ht them. 
Johanna has been my own true love since sometime in the middle of her freshman year. She dropped by my room one evening with a group of friends. and she de<.'ided to adopt me. Almost at the same time that I adopted my dog, Darby O'Gill. Johanna adopted me. As a pet. Darby needed to be house­broken:l did not. Still, he is cuter, and all he needs for happiness is to have his ears scratched, and his tummy rubbed. I would prefer to scratch my own ears. and my tummy must go undisturbed. If .Johanna had been wise. she would have adopted a cocker spaniel also: instead. she adopted a priest. As the priest who was adopted, I can say I had much better luck than the dog did. 
For over three years now, I have almost never offered a Mass at Notre Dame that Johanna has not attended. Sometimes, without .Johanna. there would have been no !\lass. If there is bread and wine in the chapel. it is she who ordered them. or brought them herself from the University Sacristan. If there are clean linens on the altar, it is .Johanna who spread them. If there are tapers buring at the Sunday afternoon liturgy in K('enan. it was Johanna who bought them at Hallmark's, often paying for them with her own money It is Johanna who fills the wine cups: it is JGhanna who dries tlw tears of moppets at the Ur­chins' !\lass. It is Johanna who h<'lps me function as priest and as hum<m being: and if 1 succeed in getting to heaven. it will be because .Johanna's prayers have ~<'£'nwd more important to God than the weight of all my sins. 
:\t present. there is a modest hook appearing on the market. l'om piled from my scribblings for the ObsC?r\'er. That book was possible because. week after week . .Johanna clipped the weekly colums out of the paper for a 

private file of her own. When an ('ditor from the Paulist-Newman Press came to the campus last ~pring. suggesting that a book be make of my columns, it was .Johanna's file, representing a two year collection. that he looked at, and off to the City the columns \H'nt in a big brown envelope, where a selection was made in the Nl'w York office. If I am an author today. with a card credited to my naml' in the Library of Congress, it is because Johanna owned a pair of scissors. and she thought enough of mv words to save them. 
i~ut it is not only Johanna, sacristan and girl Friday, whom I love. It is also Johanna, the shy, lovely girl who brings the warmth of herself into my room. If I am angry with my staff, she will say, "Bt.' gentle." If I am unjust in my judgeml'nts. she will teach me to "Think again." If there are dimensions lacking to my humanitv. she will teach me the wav to be human. and the lesson wili be her own example of com­passion. forgiveness, andself­sacrifice. I am almost em­

RANDALL'S INN DINNER 
Roast Round of Beef 
sliced to your liking Two additional hot entrees 
Potato and vegetable Plus: Our own oven hot potato bread assorted salads assorted desserts 
Only $3.90 All you can eat 
Served every Sunday 12 to 8 o'clock 
THE PEACH TREE RESTAURANT AT RANDALL'S INN TRAVELODGE 130 Dixieway North South Bend, IN. Phone 272-7373 
~------------------------------------------------~ 
night-watch has begun again. 
1want to thank you for the times wh<'n I have been tired or discouraged. and you have rested your head on my shoulders to say, "1 need you." 
I want to thank you for the times when I have been tired or discouraged. and you have rested your head on my shoulders to say, "1 need you." 
I want to thank vou for the times Wh£'11 I was sick or afraid, and you ll't tnl' rest my head on your shoulder. and you said, "1 love \'OU." 
· I thank you for the times when I have been vain. or cruel, or selfish, m· lazy. and you have said, "You nwan a great deal to a number of pl'ople. Griffin," and without scolding you taught me lessons in humility and zeal. 
I thank you for laughter and the willingness to listen; for the meals when we dined at Frankie's, and 1 thank you for the gift of roses, 
for  the  parties  we  shared  with  
fri£'nds.  
1  thank  you  for  beauty  and  
drtue.  and  for  faith.  trust,  and  
ltl\'e.  

.Johanna. and for the gift of self, 
whkh is a swl'etness greater than ,J'OSl'S. 
1\t-fore graduation. Johanna, I 
am going to send you back to the 
Cardinal's tomb with an armful of 
rosl's. so that the rose thief can 
makl' I'Pstitution. 
More than (.•ver. after our years 
of fril'ndship. I don't need his 
ro~l'S. But sometimes. after you 
haw left. I will bring him roses. It 
will bl' my '"'·ay of saying thank you 
to him and to you. 
THE ROMA welcomes 
ND-SMC students 
Your host: Frank Anastasio "We'll make you a pizza you can't refuse" 
*DELICIOUS 
ITALIAN FOOD *PIZZA *LIQUOR 
Dancing to the sophisticated jazz. rock sounds of Bill Nicks Trio. Open until 4:00am on weekends. 
Happy Hours, 11:30-7:00 daily Special prices for drinks. 
For Deliveries CaII 234-3258 211 N. Michigan Ave. 
Downtown South Bend ( NPxt to Morris Civic) 
YELLOW SUBMARINE  
$1  SU'lday February 25 8:00 & 10:00 pm  $1  
SMC  o•Laughlin Auditorium  

r-----------------------------------====~-==-~==-=~-----------------------1 

WHAT'S YOUR GIRL BACK HOME 
DOING TONIGHT? 

Long distance still is the next best thing to being there. And you can save 


Indiana Bell 


Friday, February 23, 1973 
think skinny 

MADDOGS&. 
ENGUSHMEH 
IN 4-TRACK STEREO SOUND 


Winter Consort, which has ap­peared at Notre Dame twice in the last two years, will appear at ()'Laughlin Auditorium Saturday night. The group first played at 
Notre  Dame  in  April  of  1971,  
performing  before  Gordon  
Lightfoot  in what the  Observer  

called the best concert of the year "\vithout a doubt." 
The group returned to Notre Dame last February at the Mardi Gras Concert along with Richie Havens. and was quite well received. Winnter Consort con­~ists of Paul Winter on saxes, Paul 1\kCandless on english horn and oboE'. David Darling, cello, Glenn 1\loore.. bass, Collin Walcott, pt>rcussions, and Ralph Towner on tlw guitar. 
mckendree spring 
"McKendree Spring is a four­man rock band.eonsisting of Fran 1\lcKendree (lead vocals, acoustic guitar. dulcimer), Mike Dreyfuss telectric violin. electric viola, tlH'remin. moog-artl, Marty Slutsky 11ead guitar. slide guitar) and Fred Holman (bass, background vocals) that formed lour ~·l'ars ago. They have rt.'l("ast'd three albums on the J)('Cca label." 
Though that may be complete, informative and varied, it tells you little about the group called 1\ld\.('ndree Spring. Few press r£'1Pasps do. especially when you n'ad further and fi"nd out that this hand is nothing less than the best group since the Beatles. 
But though they can't quite measure up that high. McKendree Spring sets its own level of quality and mort' than reaches that level. Tlwir music can be roughly called something like folk-rock in the Neil Young-Tom Hush vein. but they l'H'n stray from that classification at times. going into wild Moody Blu('s-Pink Floyd-Its A Beautiful Day slrPtclws that make the group hard£'r to afix a label. 
l\ld\.endree Spring seems to key around !\like Dreyfuss. "·hose"sp('cial effects" <as eomparPd to your average rock· group l on Plectric violin and syntlwsizer . have pleased audiences from Claifornia to New York • Coupled with Fran !\lcKendree's amazing vocals. Dn•vfuss shines on such favorites as ·.lamPs Taylor's "Fire and H<lin··. Neil Young's "Down by 
1hr Hiver.'' and the originals "God BlPss the Conspiracy" and "Friends Die Easv." 
A little closer to horne, 1\lcKendree Spring is an In­dianapolis favorite, selling out two concerts within three months of each other (something few groups can do these days). They'll be <lppearing in concert tonight at the l\lorris Civic Auditorium with the Flock. a rl'latively unknown. yet comp<'tent hand. and Ethos. a nwtamorphosis of Atlantis, a local group that. though they have a \\'a~·s to go. are "paying their durs" in fine style. A show that "·ill definitely be a good way to start off a wPekend of fine music continued on Saturday with Paul \\'intpr Consort. 
NOTRE DAME TAILOR SHOP 
2nd floor Band Building (opposite Huddle entrance) 
Service Hours· 
8-12 12:30-4 

· Monday thru Friday 
Alte.r~tions and repairs by professional tailors 
J Reasonable Rates
J 


ALUMNI CLUB Join in the fun Happy Hour 4-5: 30 15 cent Beers 
Fri. & Sat. night Special 

A Hockey Ticket Stub 
worth 1 (1!2price drink) 
Sat. Night 

'12-priced drinks from 9:30 -10:30 
There has been a lot of talk on this campus recently about equal rights. discrimination and general all-around oppression. But one group of persons has certainly been neglected and left out in the cold. So I thought I would bring some recognition to that group. Of course, I'm speaking of the skinny people of Notre Dame. Now. you inay ask why should I endear myself to the cause of these poor, floundering, skinny beings? My reason is because, at 6'5" and 150 pounds, I am right at the bone of of the movement. 

Perhaps one reason for the low social status of skinny people today is their forgotten role in the history books. Historians have not given the great skinny people their just due. Some of the world's greatest figures have been skinny. Take Adam. our great forefather for example. If Adam had not been as skinny as he was, God wouldn't have been able to find that famous. rib to give to Eve. No one has ever found a)ly ribs on a fat person, so it is only fair to assume that Adam was not fat. He was skinny Another example is the great Napolean Boney Parte. He was short. as we have been taught. But what the history books fail to tell us is that Napolean was not only short. hut gloriously skinny. In those pictures we see of him with his hand in his shirt. he is doing nothing more than holding up his pants. The history books have also told us of the heroic efforts of Casimir Pulaski in our American HPvolution. They don't tell us that in 1760 he had shortened his name to Pulaski. because of the social stigma attached to his previous nanw. Pulaskinny. And we shouldn't forget our great con­!('mporary skinny people. Who hasn't seen the skill of that masterful pool player, Minnesota Skinny? Or heard the nimble knuckles or the greatest of all 
piano players. Skinny Domino? 
Finally. there is our most famous lPgt•nd Santa Claus. You thought he \\·as fat? How do you think he gl•ts down all those chimneys? 
Thus. it is easy to see that many 
steve magdzinski 
muscle-bound like Charles Atlas. They have been bone-bound like me. Yet the history books have bypassed the very characteristic which undoubtedly brought them to fame. 
Even our dictionaries are discrim inately "fat-oriented." When \\·as the last time you called someone a big skinny slob or gave someone a skinny lip? 
Skinny Lih has been a long time coming. But we have only begun to fight fat. And so it is with a great deal of pleasure that I announce the formation of the Notre Dame Chapter of the Skinny Caucus. Our chapter is being chartered with the full support of the national organization LATER <Lean Association to Effect Reducing). The temporary chairman of the local chapter is Ms. Virginia Slim. l\ls. Slim has announced the first meeting will be held February 29. It will be a simple organizational lll('eting. with a fat-dipping party at the beach afterward. She asked that only fat-ribbed sweaters be \\'Orn to the meeting. 
LAKESIDE THEATRE 
presents: 
Katherine Ross and Jason Robards 
1n Admission $1 
• ''FOOLS'' 
Saturday, Feb. 24, 8 & 10 pm at Holy Cross Hall (NO) Sunday, Feb. 25, 8 & 10 pm in the Eng. Aud. 
''BRAZIL NUTS'' 1• 5 C 0 m1e ng M _ h 3 dI
arc r ~ 
_j 
~o~l'<~n~tr~g~re~a~t~es~t~m~e~n~h~a~v~e~n~o~t~b~e=e~n--~=========================================== -------­
Mardi Gras '73 is over and its success is fresh in our minds but if there is to be fun and Charitable Benefits next year people must begin to work on Mardi Gras '7 4 
NOW 
If you want a highly responsible, but 
rewarding iob, apply for: 
MARDI GRAS '74 Gen. Chairman 
To apply: Call 7 489 or come up to Social Commission Office, speak to Joe or Jim, next week. 

... ... ·• -.. . ---_' .' ." ...~ -:-: : : : . ........._~_ .. _~_-_-_-...-------·-·: ..:.' ,..': ....... . .. t .. .. • • • • • • 
'::..:.. -.· :..:.::~-.. ·~· .. ·.... ·;; ~ -~ ..-;·. ;·~ ~-:· .. :.. ~.:: .·. ~-........·.·.. ·, .. -. 
Friday, February 23, 1973
the observer
10 

Bengal Bouts open Sunday 
Nine defending champions have joined fifty other entrants in the final week of training in preparation for the 42nd annual Notre Dame Bengal Bouts. Four boxf'rs who finished in second place and one former champion are also included in the list of hopefuls which promises to be one of the classiest fields ever assembled in the charity event. 
Because of an early spring break at the University, director Dominick "Nappy" Napolitano has moved the preliminaries to Sunday. Fl'bruary 25. The purpose of the bouts--which is to provide the proceeds to the Holy Cross Bengal Mission House in Bangladesh­remains the same and it is ex­pected that this year's event will add to the $175,000 contributed to the missions in the past. 
Heading the list of returning titleholders is 165-pounder Roland Chamblee. a senior from South Bend. Chamblee will attempt to become only the third boxer in the history of the Bouts to capture four championships. The task will not be easy. however, since he will ml"et Denny Clark, the defending l'hampion at 175 pounds, in the semi-finals. The winner of this bout will take on either Ed Carney, last year's 160-pound victor, or Bill McGrath. the 1972 170-pound winner. These four boxers hold seven titles and have twice finished second in the last three years. They also hold an 18-5 ad­vantage over their opponents with Chamblee accounting for three of the victories. 
The other defending champions 
include two-time winner Pat 
McGrath at 135 pounds, 125-pound 
Larry Semerad, junior Mike 
Sanders at 150 pounds, light­
heavyweight Pat Steenberge, and 
football linebacker Mike Webb in 
the heavyweight division. Semerad 
has moved to 135 pounds and could 
possibly meet McGrath in the final 
round. 
Sunday's preliminaries have 
been scheduled at 2 p.m. with the 
semifinals two nights later at 8 
p.m. The championships will be held Thursday, March 1, at 8 p.m. matches and one dollar for the 

in the Athletic and Convocation finals. General admission tickets . CPnter. Tickets for students 16 and are one dollar for adults and $1.50 under are priced at fifty cents for for the finals. Ringside seats are the quarterfinals and semifinal $2.00. 
Swimmers list two meets 
Two tough midwestern op­ponents visit Notre Dame this weekend for dual swimming meets. The Irish face Illinois State Friday at 4 p.m. and Wayne State Saturday at 2 p.m. , both at the Rockne Memorial Pool. 
Notre Dame comes off a tough loss to Purdue last Saturday. After winning six of the first eight l'vents. the Irish were unable to withstand a Boilermaker rally, dropping the contest 65-58. Strong individual performances, led by senior John Sherk's record breaking 10:29.1 in the 1000 yard freestyle, paced the Irish. 
Sophomores Jim Kane and Dan Makielski each won two events in their specialties, the 100 and 200 yard freestyle, and one and three-meter diving respec­tively. 
Friday against the Redbirds, the Irish will have their hands fulJ as they attempt to reverse last year's 66-47 decision. Illinois State is led by All American Rick Roberts, who hopes to qualify for this year's NCAA finals. Already this season, Hoberts has broken the 10 minute mark in the 1000 yard freestyle. 
Against Wayne State, Notre Dame faces a squad that finished fourth earlier this season in the NO Invitational Relays, which were won by the Irish. The Tartars' toughest ·competitors are Neil Baggett in the 200 yard backstroke and Steve Reeves, a diver. Reeves already this season has qualified for the NCAA finals in the one­meter diving. Last year Notre Dame defeated Wayne State. 67-46. 
"I was very pleased with the team's effort against Purdue. The fact that we had best times of the ~·ear in six events was an in-

Labelmaker Makes Cloth and Vinyl Labels 
The remarkable Dymo Home Labelmaker: Made to save any­one time, effort, and money by keeping household and per­sonal items in order. Use it with new Dymo Cloth Marking Tape to make durable, easy-to-read cloth labels for school clothes, work clothes, and other fabrics. Use it with perma­nent, self-sticking Dymo vinyl labeling tape to label files, stor­age areas, fuse boxes, school supplies, and the children's things. The perfect home marking system. 
HOME LABEL MAKER 
L 

® Reg. $2.99...Now $1.98 
DVMO CLOTH MARKING 
NOW  TAPE Reg. $1.25... Now$.98  
ON  
SALE  VINYL LABELING TAPE  
AT THE  Reg. $1.25 ... now $.98  

HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
dication of our performance," commented coach Dennis Stark. Notre Dame's swimmers now stand 6-4. 
Matmen in NCAA 
The Notre Dame wrestling team (ti-ll) concluded its regular season nt homl' Tuesday night, losing to Wl'stern Michigan (7-3), 32-18. The NCAA regionals in Cincinnati this wN'kend are the next stop on the Irish schedule, and coach Terry ~lather is in the process of determining whom he will send. Probables are Al Rocek (190), Dave Boyer (142), Rich Gilloon ( 158), John Down ( 177), and Jay Achterhoff (hwt). All of these wrestlers have the needed 
qualifying records of .500 or better. 

AT'S BOOKSTORE 
50 Copies ­March 
On Sale Today 
First Come First Serve 
for the best in 

CENSORED READING Student Gov't Offices 
In just one exciting Speed Reading L~ you too can increase your reading and study speed (with no loss in comprehen­sion) 50 to 100%-FREE. At the Free Speed Reading Lesson you will learn how the Evelyn Wood course handles difficult text book material. How it Improves memory and concentration. And, how it makes reading a pleasure Instead of a chore. Attend a Free Speed ~eading Les­son. It could change your life tool 
Over 500,000 graduates including Dean Amatead, Unlveralty of Texai 
RearAdmi~IAahworth 
'Birch Bayh, U.S. Congre11 McGeorge• Bundy, JFK Cabinet Clartc Clifford, LBJ Cabinet Superintendent Estea, St. Louis Dean Gatet, Beaver College John Glenn, Astronaut 
S. 1. Hayakawa, San Francisco State Charlton Heaton Mra. Jacob Javltta Herman Jones, U.S. Dlatrlct Judge Edward Kennedy, U.S. Congre11 Burt Lancuter George McGovern, U.S. CongrHI Marahall McLuhan Dr. Frank Moya, Miami Unlveralty William Proxmlre, U.S. Congreaa . Dr. Margarat Ratz, Principia College George Segal Judge Juanita Kldd Stout Ben Wllllnghan, Geneaco President 
Success Warranty! 
98% success! Anyone ~too falls to Improve at le.t~l 3 times receives a full tuition refund! 
Lifetime Membership 
If you want further improvement in your speed of reading, study, comprehension, and recall skill you can, as a Reading Dynamics graduate, repeat the course at any time. 
....----Free Speed Reading Lessons--.... 
This_ Sunday, 
Feb.25 
6 & 8 pm 
at Center for Continuing Education 
Seminar Room 202 
•
8J dJ:•"~ BEADING DYNAMICS 



Sherk, Krathaus --ND swi1n stars 
Notre Dame senior swimmers, years and was named All-America period, too. "I guess the scalpel Krathaus has had no such set­Krathaus has already been John Sherk and Gene Krathaus, in the 50-yard freestyle as a senior. and I just don't hit it off too well," backs but he has been almost as ~anted his request. "I wanted to have quite a bit in common., They "I looked at several schools and he jokes now. But as if that wasn't good as Sherk at setting Notre beat St. Bonaventure in New' York both came to Notre Dame for the considered the educational factor enough, he contracted Dame records. He bettered the more than anything," says 
most of all when rating them," mononucleoSis and a respiratory varsity record in the 5o-yard
same reasons, have had similar Krathaus. "We've only lost to that results while here and hope to Krathaus confessed. "After all, I infection as a junior. freestyle to :22.1 as a freshman. team once since11've been here and accomplish identical goals before knew I could swim for only four All of these ai1ments cut into his That same year in a single meet he I took a lot of razzing from by 
they leave. years and then I'd have to do swimming activities but he anchored another in the 100 free. friends back home because of it." 
Sherk, a three-time All-America something else for the rest of by managed to letter all three He and Sherk were on the 4oo-yard The Irish beat the Bonnies, 71-42 at Fordson High School in Dear­life." seasons. freestyle relay team that set a and Krathaus did his part, winning born Heights. M_ich. in the 100, Both swimmers had impressive school record of 3: 16.9 last season. the 50 free in a time of :22.4.
"I feel that if John had not hadfreshman seasons. Sherk set a

200 and 400 yard freestyle, was these reversals he would have been ''Gene has been as dependable Sherk's wish is stiH unfulfilled. regarded as the next most im­varsity record in the 1000-yard Notre Dame's first representative as any young man I've ever "I hope my injuries are in the past portant thing to water for a college freestyle in his first college meet and this\ last semester can be,my
in the nationals," Stark insists. worked with," Stark praises. "He swimming team to have when he and bettered it this season in a 
The Irish coach had good reason has been good for our team both as best." he says. "Our last meet is was a senior. "He could have gone timeof 10:29.1. He broke the for that contention. As a high a performer and as a leader." the Motor City Invitational <March to any school in the country," existing 500-yard freestyle record school senior Sherk's best time in 2-3) in Detroit. I live in the suburbs 
Time is running out for the twotwice his rookie year and lowered

contends ND coach Dennis Stark. 1he 100-yard freestyle was easily seniors and both hope to make of that city and I'd like nothing 
"When thinking about college I it further as a sophomore to 5;01.2. better than to make a good im­
better than the cutoff for the NCAA some lasting waves before they
decided I wanted a small school In all he holds four Notre Dame qualification in that event. leave Notre Dame. pression up there." 
like Notre Dame because records. 
academically you get more at­But he could have been even 
tention if there's a better teacher better had he not been slowed by 
an inordinate number of calamities. 
student ratio. And I didn't want to 
spend all by time swimming so my At the close of his freshman year 
studies would suffer. Notre he underwent surgery for a hernia 
Dame's business school was but complications kept him on his 

... 
ranked second to Princeton when I back throughout the summer. 
applied so I knew I was doing the That healed, he was then felled by 
right thing." an appendicitis as a sophomore, 
Krathaus captained his West requiring further surgery. om­
Seneca High School team for two plications prolonged that recovery 
AND PLAIN CHAPS 

Cogers visit St. John's 



by Vic Dorr 

Two weeks and three basketball games ago, coach Digger Phelps and his Notre Dame cage squad began an extended road trip. Tomorrow afternoon, in New York's Nassau County Coliseum, they will end it. 
ND's opponent in this game,. the final road contest of the 1972-'73 season--will be the nationally­ranked Redmen of St. John's, a powerful. New York-style ball club with a 19-3 record. 
The Redmen, who shook off a cluster of early-season woes before climbing back to national prominence, were upset by St. 
~· Joseph's bf Philadelphia Wed­nesday night, but prior to that game had chalked up 16 con­secutive victories, including wins over Niagara, Fordham, Syracuse, and Dayton. And coach Frank Mulzoff's team had built its streak without the presence of All-American Mel Davis. a 6-7 s~..nior center who averaged better than 20 points per game last year. Davis underwent knee surgery during August and decided to sit out the season, and his loss coincided with that of 6-7 Ed Searcy, who was put on ncademic probation during the first semester. Witth both Davis and Searcy sidelined, the Redmen won but three of their first five games. Searcy worked his way back into favor by Christmas, though, and after that the Redmen went on a tear--a tear that did not end until they met St. Joe's two nights ago. But Searcy wasn't the only reason for St. John's sudden resurgence. His running mate at forward. 6-5 Billy Schaeffer, averaged 17.1 points per game last season. and boasted a .636 shooting percentage through the first 19 games of 1972-73. Center Tony Prince rounds out the Hedman r"ront line, and guards !\lei lltley and Frank Alagia start in the backcourt. Both of the St. .John's ball-handlers played key 
We want EVERYONE to enjOJ steak! 

trouble," he continued. "Searcy is 
Western Cut

capable of being a dominant factor 
Dinner

in any game and they have great shooting guards in Utley and Alagia." 
sJ89

The Redmen, who own a 7-6 edge in their series with Notre Dame, gave the ND plenty of trouble last year. as they downed the Irish in 
PONDEROSA

the ACC, 96-75. Tipoff for tomorrow's game is 
STEAK HOUSE

set for a;JO pm, EST, and the game is slated for regional television. 
52627 U.S. 31 N.

Following the contest with the Redmen, Notre Dame will return 
and

home for its final two games of the 
Town & Country

season.. ND entertains Western Michigan on Wednesday the 28th, 
Shopping Ctr. 

and host South Carolina in the 
~pen 11 A.M. to 9 P.M. Daily~

season's finale on Saturday, March 
~ Fri. and Sat. to 10 P.M. ~ 
:3rd. 
4 
So. Carolina basketball tickets FOR INFORMATION ABOUT

RIDES WANTED needed for underpriveleged So. GAY AWARENESS COM-TYPING: PAPERS, DISSER­
lATIONS, THESIS.
Be-nd students. If you would like MUNITY.CALL 7789W.Th·F,I:I-10 IM -Desperately need ride to New to contribute, call John 288-1001 or pm. MEDIATE DELIVERY. CALL Jersey for Break (March 8 or 9) Tl1er esa -1437. 287 1222 after 5. 

-s11are expenses. Call Tom 7852. 
A BETTER CHOICE IS LIFE 
Madge, why have an amateur
FOR RENT FOR THE UNBORN CHILD­

:Wanted: ride to Cleveland for student? You can have a
CONTACT BIRTHRIGHT, INC.

!Spring Break. Will share ex-professionnal. New age of
Rooms & kitchen. $40. month. IN SOUTH BEND, P.O. BOX 824

pcnses. Call 8337. decadence.
2331329. OR CALL 289-1034. 

NPcd ride to Detroit or Ann Arbor NC'W age of decadence presents
Available for September, two Before you buy a diamond learn

Friday, Feb. 23. Pis. call Dianne FREE Charlie Chaplin Flix. 7:30­
three, four and six bedroom all the facts, it may save you a

")465. 9:00, 202 A,.ch itecture Bldg.
homes. Call Mr. Hambarger-234-qrcat deal . Call James 3118. 

I Friday.
9364.

Need ride to Philadelphia Friday, Fo•b. 23. Urgent. 
Please call Hot line crisis phone FOR SALE 233 3893, Larry. 
HiWC a problem you'd like toLOST AND FOUND 

discuss anonymously (drugs, bad For Sale: 71 Pinto. good con-N Ped ride to Lauderdale, trip, family relations, suicide, dition, must sell, 1500 or best
Found: religious medal. Pope

Hollywood or Miami. $ (for 'ontraception, pregnancy, offer, call 259 0787. Sprinq BREAK Jol1n and Saint Christopher.
ken 3679. ilbortion, etc. l? Call this number
Found in locker room of Rock 2­282 2323. For Sale: Ampex 1455 stereo reel17. Call 8504.

N Ped ride to Colorado or New deck with auto-reverse, $150. Call M•'xico for Spring Break. Call PRE LAW SOCIETY 301]. after 8 pm.
Lost: Orange bowl watch outside

Steve, 1059. Informal rap with 15 former
O'SI1ay, call George 8251. 
domcrs now at the Michigan. Notre Dame leather jacket 2 quys need ride desperately to Chicago. Northwestern and Notre t'xcellent condition -like new. call
Lost : qold SMC class ring, 73,

Mie~mi, Fla. on March 7. Call Pete De~me law schools. 2·4 pm Sat. 1132. 
•nitials BAS, call 4140.

R810. Wdl 
share driving and F<'b. 241h, 2nd floor LaFortune. ·,'xpenses. RC'freshments. Come. NC'ed a ride home this spring? Or
Lost: car keys in Flanner ilow 'bout a far out. exciting, 
, oncession lobby. Call Bob 1073.
N•'cd ride toN .J. for spring break. ND STUDENTS AND Faculty! modern, cool, mindblowing, Will share s and driving. Call 15 percent off on all hock and super, Go See-America, Bronson .
NOTICES

6986. like summ£'r on a brand new,
IJrclke work at Rollin' Wheels UI1US£'d, 1973

Sunoco (across from Greenwood's Suzuki 500 motor. Need ride back from Chicago Students! Nothing to do tonight? St10ppinq CPnt£'r l for next 30 days. cycl£'; For Sale, best offer. Go via O'Hare for two on March 18. 3118, Mexican band will provide a C.1ll 272 9676 or stop in anytime! Hl'll's Anqels and call Bill at 7827. 
I 

J,lmes. q{)od time tonight from 9·1 at the 
Unitarian Church, North Shore For sale: Honda 350 SL. Six

roles in last week's 78-73 win over 
OVERSEAS JOBS . summer or N<'cd ride to Omaha, Nebraska. Drive and Michigan. MECHA pl'rmanent. months old. Excellent condition. 
...

Fordham. Alagia hit a pair of free 
Australia, Europe, S.

Ciln leave 3:00 March 8. students and everyone else in S900. Call 272 5780 after 5.
Will Amt'rica. Africa. etc. All
throws with 52 seconds left in the 
-.hareS, drivinq. Call Chuck 1782. vited. Help keep a child in a day professions, SS00-$1000 monthly,
gam<' to give the Redmen a 74-73 
care center and have fun at the Jth of July fireworks tor sale.
I'Xpenses paid. sightseeing.

Nt'Cd ride for two or three to St. <.arne time. fREE Send narne & telephone number to
ll'ad. and Utley converted a three­
INFO. Write TWR Co.

Louis March 2 weekend l'ox 685 Notre Dame. Indiana
call Dt'pf. F2, 2550 Telegraph Ave_,Di( k 233 6280. MrKendree Sprinq, the Flock and li<'rkely, CA 94704. J6556.
point play :30 seconds later to put 
the game away. 
Ethos in concert tonight at 7: 30 at 
WANTED AKC Labrador pups. One male &
"St. ,John's is certainly one of the 

Morris Civic. Good tickets will be Child Care Workers Immediate one female.
.wailable at the door. op·eninqs and other openings Call Jim Thean 283· 6556. 9 5.
top 10 teams in the country," said 
· H.1V£': 2 11ockey ticketts for w1t11in the next several months for
ND coach Digger Phelps. "They 
r riday niqht. willinq to swap for 2 Up to 26 ACRES OF UN-111<Hr ide couples without
have super personnel and play 
tickets for SCiturday night. Call TOUCHED GRASSLAND IN dependent children. To live in For sale: 1966 Dodge windown 
Vi!n'

outstanding basketball offensively 
RoiJ 7819 Pnrk County, Col. Near skiing four days off four days. Call Rich after 5 pm, 288-0266.
clnd Nat'l Forest. Asking $350 RI'Sidential Tr£'atmcnt Program
and defensively. Frank Mulzoff 
WilntC'd: Te-nnis partner, call 232­
acre. Wm Myers, 115 Western for emotionally disturbed
has his team believing it can win.. 
0882. Lost: one black cat outside
Ave., N., St. P-".11, Minn. 612 224-ildolesccnts. Write to FORT 
Morrissey Tues. night. possibly

He does a great job of getting the 
8301. WAYNE CHILDREN'S HOME, 
most out of his players. If 'st. IInterested in some good poker preqnant and answering to name:
£\OX 5038. HAZELWOOD

lliH1ws? Call Larry J245. "Manfred". If found please cal'
. John's can stay healthy I think TYPING -THESIS, DISSER· STATION . FORT WAYNE, IN­
3J13 or 3444 or return to basement

I lATIONS, TERM PAPERS. DIANA, WITH RESUME. MUST
they just might be the surprise , Wcmted: piano player, part time, Morrissey. Reward.
REASONABLE RATES · RE AT LEAST AGE 21
Fr·i. & Si'lt. evening. Dinner
team of the Eastern Regionals this 
PROFESSION:.-L LOOKING
music. Appl v in person. Down Found· watch with black band in
year." 
RESULTS. MRS. JORDAN-·284 Ride the Cosmic Wave! 
!1 r Re t
U de s aurant. 900 E. Ireland fa' r k..m,,-lot west of stadrum. Cal.
7956 before 4:30 or 288·1277 after Voll' Wesolowski Angeluzzr.
"They can give a team a lot of Road. 7924.
s.oo. 

-• I 
Friday, February 23, 1973
the observer 

Irish breeze by West Va., 92-73 
by Vic Dorr home team could mount but one Mountaineers--43 per cent to 45 per serious threat after that. cent --during the initial period, but 
West Virginia's sparkling new WVU's husky Larry Carr (6-8, NO piled ~P a 33-17 reboundingbasketball arena was only half­

250) dropped in a lay-up near the ~pread durmg that half, a~d en­filled for last night's game between tO-minute mark to make it 19-16 Joyed the same sort of dommancethe Mountaineers and the Fighting NO and an Irish turnover gave th~ during the second period.
Irish, and those fans who came to ho~e team a chance to pull to Gary Nova~'s running one­the game came hoping to see thei1 

within one. But Gary Brokaw hander early m the second halfhome team snap a five-game blocked a shot during the Moun-capped an Iri.sh run of sevenlosing streak. 
taineers' next offensive sequence, unanswered pomts, and balloonedBut Notre Dame, a team with a and the Irish picked up the loose the sco~e to 57-35 before WVUlosing streak of its own; dashed 
any such hopes during the first 58 ball and converted it themselves began 1ts last attempt to a when Gary Novak pitched in ~ comeback. A pair of free throws
seconds of play, opened up a 15­

short hook shot. by Harold Black,
point spread by intermission, and Brokaw followed a pair of field 
then coasted during much of the with a breakaway lay-up--giving goals by Scott McDonald, and a Notre Dame a 23-16 bulge--and jump shot from the top of the circle 
second half before nailing down a 

coach Digger Phelps' squad by Warren Baker cut the Notre92-73 triumph. 
dominated the rest of' the ball Dame lead to 57-43 before NovakThe victory gave the Irish a 12-11 game. and Brokaw tallied to squelch theslate and moved them above the 
Mountaineer rally . 

.500 mark for the third time this Late in the first half, unan­season. and the game lacked any of swered baskets by Novak, Brokaw, Then, not content with merely 
stifling the West Virginia

the dramatics which have marked Novak, and Clay sent the Irish into 
other NO cage outings this year. comeback, the Irish took off on a
a 37-25 lead, and enabled Phelps to 
I, scoring of own.
Sophomore guard Dwight Clay start dipping into his bench spree their 
I,' netted two field goals and a Shumate began the streak with a
free strength. The Irish coach replaced throw during the first minute of Clay with Frank Allocco, but the pair of free throws, and Crotty play to give the Irish a 5-0 lead, shift didn't slow ND's momentum. ended it 13 points later, when he and, following an early Moun­scored on a give-and-go from Clay. 
Shumate dropped in a pair of free 
taineer flurry, Notre Dame West Virginia's only points during 
throws with 1:14 left to make it 45­
methodically pulled away. that stretch came on a follow-shot
31, Brokaw's three-point play with 
A corner jump shot by West by Bob Hornstein, and the score
0:50 showing padded the Irish lead Virginia's Jerome Anderson cut to 48-33, and, just seven seconds was 73-47 before (Warren) Baker 
the Irish lead to one, 7-61, early in before intermission, Allocco cooled off the Irish by hitting four 
the first half, but a free throw and whipped a pin-point pass to Crotty consecutive free throws. 
a field goal by Pete Crotty and and the 6-8 forward converted to The teams volleyed during the stitute heavily during the final five points, Scott McDonald had 14,back-to-back buckets by John send the Irish off at half with a 50-remainder of the game, and both minutes of the contest. Larry Carr finished with 12--all inShumate and Gary Brokaw moved 35 lead. coaches--NO's Phelps and WVU'~ The Irish complemented their the first half--and reserve guardND into a 14-6 spread, and the The Irish were outshot by the Sonny Moran--were able to sub-
advantage on the boards with a Harold Black also tallied 12 points. balanced scoring effort, placing all five starters in double figures.

NO icers face no.l Badgers IH track meet 
John Shumate's 24 points made him the high point man for NO-­There will be an interhall track
by Jim Donaldson 
and for the ball game--but the "Big meet Monday night, February 26Sports Editor Shue" had plenty of support. Gary at 7:00pm in the north dome of the The first place team in the Novak finished with 22 points, ACC.
Western Collegiate Hockey Gary Brokaw with 19, Dwight Clay The events will include the 60Association will be in action at the 
with 12, and Pete Crotty with 11. yard dash, the 440 and 880 yardACC for the second time this Kenny Wolbeck and Don Silinski run, the 60 yard hurdles, mile run, 
season and, if coach "Lefty" 
rounded out the Irish scoring with long jump, high jump, shot put, a 

Smith's club can do as well against two points apiece. four lap relay and an eight lapthe league leader this time as they
"· West Virginia also enjoyed relay.

did four weeks ago, then Friday balanced scoring. Warren Baker The relays will be run by halls and Saturday night's games may Mountaineers 15 and hall totals will be kept.
paced the with 
not be the last ones this year at Notre Dame. The Irish knocked Michigan 
Fencers entertain trio
State out of first place almost a 

t 
month ago when they ripped the The Notre Dame fencing team, "Illinois has three outstandingSpartans, 8-5 and 13-5. · Now, after a disappointing 2-1 tnp to foilsmen. They average eight wins 
Wisconsin's Badgers, coached by Ohio last weekend, will entertain per match in this weapon. When Bob Johnson, occupy the top spot Illinois. Wisconsin and Tri-State any team can average that many,with a 17-6-1 record (45 title points) Saturday at one o'clock in the it is going to be tough to handle,"and Notre Dame would like Athletic and Convocation Center. 
DrCicco said. One of the out­nothing better than to give the Coach Mike DeCicco's Irish (8-3) standing foilists is Dave Littell,
Badgers the same treatment MSU had great success with both who placed second in the NCAA received. Oberlin and Michigan State, championships last year.
Locked in a battle for fourth winning 22-5 and 18-9 respectively. Wisconsin is also having an place 1the last home-ice playoff Ohio State. on the other hand, gave outstanding year. The Badgersposition) with Michigan Tech, the Irish their second 14-13loss this figure to be tough for the Irish Notre Dame could take a giant step season. 
considering they handled Ohio 

toward taking over that position DeCicco expects the toughest State very easily. Tri-State, ac­
with a pair of wins this weekend. competition this Saturday to come cording to the Irish coach, is a 
Both Tech ( 12-10) and the Irish 05-from Illinois. The Illini stood 13-o 
"scrappy and determined bunch." 

H. li-13 overall) have 36 title points going into last weekend's match Mike Matranga continued his hut. while the Huskies have only with undefeated Wayne State. 
comeback last weekend with a 5-l 

£'ight points remaining, Notre "We let them get off the hook record for an overall 15-6 mark in 
Dam£' has 12. after we had battled back from a ('pee. Tri-.Captain Dan Mulligan
"It's hard to predict at this 12-7 deficit for a 13-12 lead," had a 7-1 weekend for a 22-7 mark 
point." Smith figured, "but I feel DeCicco reflected. "We can't overall this season in sabre. Tri­
\H' must win eight of our afford these mental lapses. We Captain Mike Cornwall and Tom 
remaining 12 points to finish in the much as we are. That ought to regularly <Smith used them need to develop the character and C'oye •·aised their foil marks to 14­top four. Pla~ing the first place make for a good series." together in the past when the Irish pride last year's squad had." 10 and 17-7. team this weekend should give us There'll be no shortage of talent needed scoring punch) and there PaUI Rega n '-&.o;.·····-·····;.o····;.··;.-.·.-•••••••-•.•-.·.····-·>.····x··.-•.•-.........-•.•-.-.;-············;.·.··············
som£' added incentive." on the ice this weekend. The may not be a more potent line in "····~···":.·':········· ... ···························--····. ·•·······•···•···•······· ·•·•••······· ·•·•···•·•·•·•·•· 
Notre Dame's past performance IBadgers have an impressive ('Ollegia te hockey.record against the Badgers is array of stars, headed by high Overall. Bumbacco has 70 pointshardly impressive. Wisconsin has scoring forwards Dennis Olmstead t:J6-34l. Williams. 53 (27-26), and 
Captain's Corner 

won 12 of the 14 meetings between ! 13-20-33), Dean Talafous 1 (12-17-Noble. 48 (16-32>. Other top Irish 
the teams•. including the last six in 291, Lloyd Bentley 03-13-26) Gary scorers include co-captain Paul a row. !·only success the Irish Winchester <13-13-26) and Norm H£'gan. who has 27 league points, have ha~ as in December of 1970, C'herrey <16-13·291. Cherrey ac­wing Ray DeLorenzi, (17-15-32)when No . Dame managed a 6-5 ccomplished one of hockey's rare and Larry Israelson <10-6-16). As our team prepares for its last regular season home games at the win and a.:3-3 tie on home ice. feats while leading the Badgers to With Williams moving to Noble's ACC. I realize that I'm quickly approaching the end of my hockey Last ~r at the ACC, Notre a sweep of Minnesota-Duluth last line and Dunphy facing a long playing days at Notre Dame. It's quite natural at such a time to think 


Dame had three.goalleads in both weekend, scoring three shor­recuperation period because of his back over the last four years. 
games against Wisconsin but let thanded goals in Saturday's 9-2 broken leg, Pat Conroy will be I can still see big Jim Blainey with that ear-to-ear grin on his face them slip away. The Badgers alsc lumbering down the ice ... Phil Whittliff scoring a goal while lying flat 
Badger win. centering for Ric Schafer and 
dumped the· Irish twice in Madison on his back ... Gary Little swinging his stick in disgust at the "bad call"
Bob Lundeen-(4-i3-17> John Taft either Jim Augustine or Dave a referee just made ... Kevin Hoene dressing for his last game as a
last season. Wisconsin has con­(8-11·19> anchor Wisconsin's llowe. Notre Dame's third line • 
tinued its mastery in the current defense and, in Jim Makey and Regan. DeLorenzi,.Zmd Israelson -player. When I think back on these "old days" I remember we always talked about getting into the WCHA and then gaining a berth in the
campaign, winning a pair of close Dick Perkins, the Badgers have remains intact. 
ones. 5-4, in overtime, and 5-3 back national tournament. My freshmen year these goals seemed far off in 
two o£ the WCHA 's better Defenseman Les Larson· ·Will be the distant futtAre.
in December in Madison. goaltenders. lost to the Irish this weekend 
The Badgers' dominance of the "Wisconsin has good speed and because of a shoulder sprain. Three years tater, we're in the position we had talked about. When Irish doesn't awe coach Smith or quickness and great balance up Stalwarts Bill Green, Mark the season began, it appeared that we'd be no where near the top of his skaters, however. front," Smith noted. "Their for· Steinborn, Steve Curry and Bill the WCHA standings. People were· saying we'd be lucky to make the 
"We're looking forward to this wards are as good as any in the Nyrop 1will face the unenviable playoffs in March. When we left Boston at Christmas, I was beginning 
j. 
series," Smith said. "We're going league." task of keeping Wisconsin's to think they might be right. to try and atone for those two The Irish boast the WCHA's top talented forwards under control. .sin.ce the New Year, though, we've played the way I expected,earlier losses." two point producers in wings Eddie Mark Kronholm, as usual, will wmmng eleven of our last fourteen games. We've worked hard in "Wisconsin presents a for· Bumbacco (26-25-51) and Ian tend goal for the Irish this practice, and it has paid off in the games. midable challenge for 1.1s," he Williams <22-24-26), along with weekend, and Pat Novitzski and 
~ur poor showing against Wisconsin in the past certainly brings to

continued. "They're fighting to center John Noble ( 13-26-39), who's Mike Tardani will be used in 
mmd a few unpleasent memories. This week-end we get a chance to stay in first and if they lose even sixth in the league scoring race. penalty-killing roles. 

redeem ~urselv~s. Three weeks ago we handled first place Michigan one game, they'll be out. They're Since the injury to Mike.Duhphy, Faceoff both nights at the ACC is State quate easily. Hopefully, the results will be the same this 

·~ 
fighting for their lives, just as that trio has been skating together 7::JO p.m. weekend. 





\ 
,· 
~ 





