On The Inside 
Hesburgh given black belt ... page· 3 First student dividend 
... page 4 
Vol. VII No. 67 
Special peace services planned for weekend 
--------~-~----------------------­

serving the notre dame -st. mar)fS community 

by Greg Rowinski Staff Reporter 
The signing of the Vietnam cease-fire agreement will lw commemorated in services on campus Saturday night and Sunday. 
The chief observation to be held Sunday at the :\thletic and Convocation Center will include a program with peace as its theme and a Mass el'lebrated by Fr. Hesburgh. 
A special prayer service in Sacred Heart Church will commence at the moment the cease-fire is being signed. 7 p.m .. Saturday. 
In speaking of Sundays events, Provost Fr. James .Burtchaell observed. "This is not a celebration lwcause the Vietnam war had no victor." 
Sunday"s program scheduled to start at 3 p.m., will consist of an hour of readings, talks, and music. Fr. llesburgh will preach the homily of the Mass that will follow. hich is being arranged by the Office of Campus l\1 inistry. The entire event is being planned by faculty, students. and administration and is open to the public. 
Fr. Rurtchaell, chairman of the planning committee, in describing the theme of the program, stated, "the notes we sound are both muted and mixed --lament, thanksgiving. and hope." 
"Sunday provides an opportunity for us to come together and be drawn into a reflection on what, in­deed. the Vietnam war taught us," Fr. Burtchaell added. without "an opportunity for harangues, for we have had enough of bitterness." 
J<'t·. William Toohey, Director of Campus Ministry, emphasized that the Saturday prayer service is not "in competition with the larger event Sunday in the ACC." lie rPgarded it, rather. as "an additional service," planned "as a smaller. quieter, and reflective op­portunity." adding that it was "designed to coincide '' ith the precise moment the cease-fire goes into ef­fl'ct." 
Saturday's service "will provide all of us the chance to come together to reflect and pray in a an at­mosphere of quiet and song, with specially-selected readings," said Toohey. 
J<'r. Toohey, along with Fr. Burtchaell, emphasized the need for healing, and saw the parallel need for "a rl'cognition that cease-fire is just the beginning of struggling for a real peace." Such a peace, he con­tinued must be strived for "as our own responsibility" <'ven as "we need to affirm the necessity of our <'otmtry's involvement in the task of rebuilding dPvast~ ted Southeast Asia." 
l :Iii111111111111111111111111111111111 II!11111111111rII111111111111111 UIIIH1111111111111111 


Sunday Schedule 
:l pm 
Program of readings  South Dome. ACC  
and music  
.t pm  
l\1ass celebrated by  South D.ome. ACC  
Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh  
:l-6::!0 pm  
Dinner served in ACC  Concourse. ACC  

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIU11111111111111111111111111 II II illII1111111111111111111111111111111 
The planners of Sunday's events have requested the halls to cancel their usual Sunday liturgies in favor of the community observance. Sacred Heart Church will maintain its regular Mass schedule. 
A simple meal will be served in the ACC after the l\1ass. The North and South dining halls willlbe closed for the evening meal. Those students not participating in the service will be served in the ACC Fieldhouse from 5 to 6:30. 
Drummers will travel through the campus to an­nounce the events about 2:30. Students are invited to follow them and march into the ACC. 
The l'vents are similar to those proposed by the University Academic Council. The idea of suspending dasses. which had met with opposition in the council, was not enacted. Frs. Hesburgh and Burtchaell had Parlier stated that such a suspension could be feasible only if specific alternative activities were planned. 
Saint Mary's faculty, students and administration have been invited to participation in the observance. 
Friday January 26, 1973 

Riehle upholds 
'no OC w-omen' 

ruling for 73-74 
by Tom Drape 
Observer reporter 

Director of Housing Fr. James Riehle reaffirmed yesterday that the University's original ruling prohibiting female un­dergraduates from living off-campus will remain in effect for the 1973-74 school year. 
Hiehle stated that in Notre Dame's change to coeducation the University officers wanted the women "visible on campus, as such." The purpose of the original ruling also involved the need for on-campus orientation for Notre Dame's first classes of women. Only natives of South Bend are exempted from the 0-C ban . 
"The university, as an institution, is not giving the option for women to move off­campus next year," Riehle said. 
Asked if the decision is reversible, Riehle said that any appeals would have to be "extraordinary" and considered specifically. He cited a recent survey in Badin Hall placing the number of students interested in moving off-campus at nine. 
Katy Duffy, a member of the Women's Caucus Steering Committee, is acting on her own initiative to seek out the reasons against women living off-campus next year. Duffy feels that concern over the "visibility" of women on campus is "complete tokenism." 
She plans to bring the matter before the Caucus this Sunday. after meeting with Hiehle today. 
"As the survey indicates, it is not a question of numbers. By not allowing senior women to follow their-sophomore, junior and senior male counterparts off-campus. the University is socially and economically discriminating," Duffy said. 
Duffy said that she is afraid that precedents for double standards in dictating future policy will be established. 
Duffy acknowledged that orientation was perhaps needed for the first year, but feels that as Notre Dame enters its second year of coeducation women's privileges should extend to more than "merely decorating the dining hall." 
She also refered to economic advantages. saying that off-campus life was less ex­pensive. 

Mardi Gras '73 getting closer 
by Tom McKenney Staff Reporter 

Preparations for the opening of Mardi Gras '73 have entered the final stages and according to Promotions Chirman Len Kovac all progress is satisfactory with the rxception of raffle ticket sales. 
Kovac stated that early ticket sales were "disappointingly low" and showed a general "lack of concern" on the part of teh students. Kovac hopes that the students will cooperate with the charity effort and sell more tickets before the February 10 deadline. 
The annual Mardi Gras 'Kick Off Party' is scheduled for 8:30 next l<'riday, night at the Indiana National Guard Armory in South lknd. Tickets are $5.00 per couple nnd are now on sale at the Student Union ticket office. They will be sold at the dining halls next Tuesday, Wednesday and Thur­sday during the dinner hours. 
As in the past bus transportation will be provided from the Notre Dame circle to the Armory via St. Mary's. Buses will begin leaving at R:OO p.m. and will run to the Armory until 10: 15. The return buses will run from 11:00 p.m. until 
1:00 a.m. 
The theme of this years Mardi Cras is "Under Sea World of Atlantis." Some 200 persons reported to Stepan Center last Monday for the first night of work and since that time the work has been progressing on schedule toward the February 2 opening night date. 
(Staff photo by Jim Hunt) 


the observer Friday January 26, 1973
2 

Paris--Cambodia will stop offensive military operations by Sunday--a day nfter a cease-fire is to take effect in Vietnam, high diplomatic 
an c:ampu• taday sources in Paris said Thursday. The sources said the halt would be called on the strength of an "understanding" between Henry Kissinger and Le Due Tho that the cease-fire would be extended to 
Cambodia and Laos. 

7:30 p.m.--hockey, nd. vs. michigan, ace
warld fri. 
7:30 & 10 p.m.--movie, daddy's gone a-hunting,
Washington--The state department expects North Vietnam to release 
holy cross ha II

American prisoners of war in groups of about 100 starting around Feb. 
10 and a medical-airlift operation has been readied to bring them 
8& 10 p.m.--movie, mccabe and mrs. miller, eng.

briefs aud.
home. The rate at which the prisoners are released, in the opinion of American officials. will depend on how quickly the United States with­
draws its remaining 23,700 troops from South Vietnam. 
sat. 
Stonewall. Tex.--Lyndon Baines Johnson was buried in a country graveyard on the banks of the Pedernales as the friends and neighbors 3:30 p.m.--basketball, nd vs. ucla, ace who had known him longest paid their last respects to the 36th 
president of the United States. 7:00 p.m.--prayer service, for peace, sacred heart church 
7:30 p.m.--hockey, nd vs. michigan, ace 
Washington--The end of the Vietnam War will have no significant 
8:00 p.m.--movie, mash, o'laughlin aud., smc
impact on the American economy as a whole. That is the virtually 
unanimous prediction of economists, government officials and 
business and labor leaders interviewed since Henry Kissinger ­
pmclaimed that peace was at hand last October. 
(c) 1.97.1 New York Times 
sun. 
3:00-6:30 p.m.--peace program, south dome, ace
Ncw York--An old ally may be Mayor John V. Lindsay's next political 
foe. The mayor is seriously considering running f-or the United States 
Sl•nate next year against the Republican incumbent, Jacob K. Javits. 
The mayor won't talk about it publicly, but close associates who have 
discussed it with him, pointed out that the mayor could use the senate 
floor to dramatize national issues. 


On Northern Ireland 
Doyle discusses humanconditions 
hy Mike Kulczycki 
Staff Reporter 

Conflict and fear are an inescapable part of the human nmdition. according to the \'niversity of Iowa's David Doyle, \\'ho looked at Northern Ireland in lhis light Wednesday evening. 
..\grel'ing with historian (;eorge 1\l•atunont. who visited Ireland in llw IB:!O's. Dovle found Ireland to l'xemplify m;;ny of the general problems of all mankind. He found Ihe l I .S. to be the rare exception to these problems of the human l'Ondition. due primarily to its pmsperity and technology. 
Dovle. a native of Ireland, received h(s B.A. at Queens College in Belfast. He emigrated lo America in 1966, receiving at :\I.A.at Marquette University, and is presently in the history doctoral program at the University of Iowa . 
Dovle addressed a crowd of 150 :-;tudents and faculty at Carroll Auditorium. SMC, as guest of the American Scene Lecture Series. 
In attempting to give a general ;mal\'sis of the situation in Nor­ther'n Ireland. including its historical background. Doyld cited a remark made in 1970 by a Belfast man to a British newsman. "Anvbodv who is not confused here. doesn't know what's going on." 
The Ulsters and Catholics fighting over the control of the pro\'ince pits one fear against the other. He compared the essential differences as not greater than the differences between Alabama and 

Holy Cross soph:more starts resident recycling program 
hy Nc>il Viii Staff Reporter 

. \ n·c~·cling progr:~m to dispose of old lll'Wspapers. cans. bottles. ;rnd lhc like. which pollute the l'll\'ir<Jil!nt'nt around Holy Cross 
Student Center 
plans to sponsor pool tournament 
The Student Center Pool Hall 
will sponsor its-fifth annual ''Notre 
D;rnw Open·· tournament begin­
ning Fl•brJ:rr:-.: 5th. 

The tournament is open to all 1'\otre IJ;~me students; there is no 
l'ntry It'<'. Two trophies will he awarded to the top fmalists in this single-elimination contest. 
The game will be 14:1 continuous 1straigllt 1 pocket billiards. The preliminary rounds will he played to :iO. and the semi-finals to 100. 
The registration will end r'ehruarv 2nd. \latches will he assigned. by lot and arranged at the players' convenience. Interested pool technicians may sign up now at the Student Center Pool Hall. 
he Observer is published daily 
uring the college semester ex­~cpt vacations by the students of the l'niversity of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchesed for sa per semester ( 14 per year) from the Observer, l·OX Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 

h;1s lwen organized by sophomore h;rll rPsident William Thode. Hall residents deposit the refuse in two hoxes. one for newspapers and one lor bottles and cans. located at the 1·nd of e;rch section of the hall. The colleeted trash is then carted away hy Thode periodically. 
\\ lwn asked how he got the idea lor such a venture. Thode replied, .. , had looked around campus. and lm1nd nothing at all going on in n·c~·cling. possibly due to a lack of intPn•st. I ;rsked around and found out lhPrc \\'as interest in such a progr;rm. but no initiative..\lso. I decided to makp a point. because llwrt• is ;r point to be made here." ',q pro1its whatsoever are realized through the program by Thode or hy I he rPsidents of Holy Cross. The discarded material is transported to a concern in South Bend, from 
which it is :.;hipped to recycling 
plants. This concern pays nothing for the material. 
Thode Pnvisions a possible c;rmpus-wide recycling program. "If it works here at Holy Cross. the program could be set up over the whole campus. possibly next 1l'ar." I•:ach hall would have a ;.ollection area. and the campus 1\ould benefit from such a cleanup. 
Thodl' foresees no problem with Iire regulations. as the refuse 11 ould he taken away quite often. 
"l{(•sponse has been pretty good. P1·en though the program has lwt>n going on for only a few days," says Thode. When asked why he 11 as spending all the time and l'!fort to promote such a program in llol~· Cross. especially since no monetarv reward is involved, he n•pliPd. ·..I'm just doing it for the o\·Prall \'alue of the thing. I'm glad lo see sonwthing's being done." 
CAC presents 

!"McCabe and Mrs. Miller" 
starring Wprren Beatty and Julie Christie directed1by Robert Attmari· 
I Eng.Aud. 8-JOpmAdm.$1. 00 


L__~_rh_u_r_s_._&__~_i_.,_J_a_n_._2_5_-2__6__~ 
Indiana. He called Northern 
ln•land "Little Alabama" in 
l'mphasizing its differences only as 
"a neny society versus a relaxed 
:->Od(•ty." 
1\lr. Doyle said the present crisis, hn•wing since !he 1920's. was partially due to the old pr.oblem of birth control. with the Protestants practicing it and not the Catholics. The Ulster's fear of being over­pO\\'l'red by the Catholics led to discrimination. with the Catholics occupying the lowest economic rung. Ill' identified a peculiar relationship between the religious and l'conomic dimension of the problem in Northern Ireland. 
1\lr. Dovle recalled Ms. Ber­nadette Dt~vlin as his classmate at Queen's College who helped l;nmch the Catholics civil rights movement demanding equal trPatnwnt. After the Ulster police l'ontinuallv attacked the demon­strations.· he said the initiative passed to the ·catholics. He con­siderPd the IRA "as defensive units \\'Pre necessary, but their mistake was to take on the of­lensivt>." 
lll' described the situation now as the British "trying to keep the lid on... and waiting for moderate forces to build a new government. Ill' stressed that the situation was "vl'ry human and very sad," and acknowledged that it was a problem without a simple answer. 
Hairstyling by 

BARON 

YOUR STYLE OR MINE 2732 S. Mich. 291-0143 
THE ROMA welcomes 

ND-SMC students 
Your host Frank Anastasio 

"\\'p'IJ make you a pizza you ean't rpfuse" 
*DELICIOUS 
ITALIAN FOOD *PIZZA *LIQUOR 

Dancing to the sophisticated jazz-rock sounds of Bill Nicks Trio Open until 4:00 a.m. on weekends For DELIVERIES CALL 234-3258 211 N. Michigan Ave. 
Downtown South Bend INl•xt to l\lorris Civic) 

RANDALL'S INN BUFFET DINNER 
Served every Sunday 12 to 5 o'clock FEATURING: Roast Round of beef sliced to your liking Two additional hot entrees Potato and vegetable PLUS: OUR OWN OVEN HOT POT A TO BREAD 
assorted salads assorted desserts 
THE PEACH TREE RESTAURANT 
I 

AT RA!'\DALL'S INN TRAVELODGE 130 Dixiewav "lorth Sou:h r.~no, In. Phone 272-7373 
Friday January 26, 1973 the observer 
3 

II!11111111111 Ill11111111111111111111111111111111111111111110IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIII!IIIIIUIIIIIIIIUIIDIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltllllllltllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllliiiiiiiUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIU 
Head karate instructor a'Wards official black belt to Hesburgh 

revenues for the campus. "If the 18-year-old drinking privilege goes through. students may be able to eonvcrt the "Rathskeller" into a bar-lounge arrangement." Hess said. 
As students anxiously await the outeome of congressional efforts to secure passage of the bill a lot will depend upon student participation. 
Hess has suggested that those persons who are interested may contact the Ombudsman Office in the LaFortune Center for a list of eounty legislators who may an­sw<'r any questions concerning the hill. Secondly. he noted it would be beneficial if students would write the area lawmakers or circulate a pl'!ition in support of the measure. 
Choral g.roup 
to make first Europea.n tour 
by Mary Cooney Staff Reporter 

For the first time in its history, the St. Mary's-Notre Dame Choral group is going on tour in Europe. The tenative date for the tour is set for May 21-June 8. The European tour is one of several new projects initiated this year by the music department. 
"The idea of going is to involve the students in a tour situation. in the hope that. if successful, the choir ean tour somehwere every spring," explained Dr. James 
~~~;~i~~~~·:~~~t~:~tc~;~irS~a~~r~~ 
and conductor of the chorus. 
Normally the choir has ap­proximately 74 members, but because of financial considerations and lack of room only 48 will go. Among the 48 will be the sixteen members of the Collegium l\lusicum. a division of the chorus 
(continued on page 4) 

MAIN CHURCH 

SUNDAY MASSES 
5:15 p.m. Sat. Fr. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 
i 9:30 a.m. Sun Fr. J. Bernard Clark, C.S.C. 
10:45 a.m. Sun. Fr. Frank Quinn, O.P. (Mass of Penance for Peace and Recon­ciliation) 
12:15 p.m. Sun. Fr. William Toohey, C.S.C. 
"Evening Prayer" vespers at 4:30p.m. Sunday. Confessions are heard before each weekday mass and from 7:00 to 7:30 p.m. Mon. through 
Sat. 
by Jim Rosini Staff Reporter 
An honorary black belt in karate was awarded to University President Father Theordore llesburgh. yesterday. by Mr. Dong Sik Kim. the master insturctor of the Tae Kwan Do Club on campus. 
Beeeiving an honorary black belt in Korea is comparable to receiving an honorary doctorate in this country. Kim. a fifth degree black belt and a member of the t lnited Tae Kwan Do Federation. offered the black belt to Hesburgh tor his outstanding work in civil rights movements. stating, "I have a deep respect for this man who has been an inspiration to me." 
The award consisted of a plague from the United Tae Kwan Do 
(Staff photo by Jim Hunt) 


UUJIII!IIIIlllllllllllllllllllli\ll\lll\11\lllllllllllllll\llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll' 
by Tim Truesdell Staff Reporter 

The proposed Indiana Age of 
1\lajority bill. among other lrovisions. would lower the lrinking age from 21 to 18. The specific inclusions are under 

ebate in the state legislature and ·urrently there are 32 interrelated 1ills up for consideration. As a result of the ambiguity among ·ssues. the General Assembly is 
xpected to continue discussion in he upcoming sessions. As it stands now. the 18-year-old 
rinking issue will be treated as an individual bill with the remaining drafts. calling for the right to file suit and divorce. temporarily set aside. If the Assembly does not see the need to evaluate each of the 32 bills. there is a strong possibility that certain provisions will be attached as "riders" or sup­plements to upcoming bills. The immediate controversy is centered around the drinking question. 
Several Notre Dame students have remained in close contact with state legislators and recently 
Kazoo sale set 
for hockey series 
by Joseph Abell Managing Editor 

The acquisition of 300 kazoos to be sold before Friday night's hockey game against Michigan was announced by Farley Hall President Chris Singleton 
~'esterday. 
The kazoos. which will sell for 25 cents each in front of gate 3 of the Athletic and Convocation Center Friday night. were located by the Carnevale School of Music in Chicago early yesterrlay af­ternoon. Singleton will journey to Chicago to pick up the special shipment. 
This offer of kazoos for sale is part of a campus-wide effort to stimulate enthusiasm for the Notre Dame hockey team during what has been termed as its toughest series this weekend. The project was begun two days ago by Singleton and Student Union Associate Director Dave Burch after a request by hockey coach 
(continued on page 4) 
THE WINERY 700 Different Wines 
2426 L. Way West Mishawaka 259-9046 



Federation. a Federation pin, a robe. and a· black belt. While posing for photographers with Kim. Hesburgh joked. "I expect that if I have any attackers now. you'll come up and defend me." 
Tai Kwan Do. meaning "the \ntv of the hand and the foot." is the. official karate used by the Korean Army. Being primarily a farming nation. Koreans adopted karate as a method of self defense using their soil-beaten calloused hands as weapons. 
Kim has been a fifth degree black belt for ten years. He is presently employed by the YMCA of South Bend as a karate in­structor. In the future he hopes to start another club on the St. l\lary's campus similar to the club at Notre Dame. 





STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE 3rd FLOOR LAFORTUNE· FIESTA LOUNGE NEW fiOURS Morning Afternoon 
M W F 11 :00·12:30 MW 3:15-5:15 
Tues. 2:45·4:45

T Th 11:30-1:00 Thurs. 1:00·3:00 
Mardi Gras Concert with 


SANTANA 
February 9 at 8:00 
Good $4.50 and $3.00 seats left: 
Behind • stage seats now available. 
Neil Young trip tick:ets on sale Tuesday 
REGAL NOTES 
UNDERSTAND PLAYS, NOVELS AND POEMS 
FASTER WITH OUR NOTES We're new and we're the bigest! Thousands of topics reviewed for quicker understanding. Our subjects include not only English, but Anthro· pology, Art, Block Studies, Ecology, Eco· nomics, Education, History, Law, Music, Philosophy, Political Science, Psychology,Religion, Science, Sac:iology and Urban Prob­lems. Send $2 far your catalog of topics avail· able. 
REGAL. NOTES 

3160 "0" Street, N. w. Washington, D. c. 20007 
:~·-i!! •. !!!._!!!!_.!!l!!!!!!!!!!~.,...~~T~e~l~ep~h~on~e~:~2~0~2-~3~33~-0!!!!2~0~1~~~~~~==~.. !!!!!!! 
.....,~ 


WEIGHT WATCHERS R 
IS READY FOR YOU Due to many re~quests, there is d new weight w·atchers class at · Saint Mary's College 
Saint Mary's College Me Candless Hall· Notre Dt:.me, Indiana Tuesday, 7:00pm LOSE WEIGHT AND K-EEP IT IT OFF FOR GOOD Reg. Fee ... $5.00 No contracts to sign Wkly Fee ... $2.00 
Private Weigh-Ins

1st week ... $7.00 
Join At Any Class!

No Checks Please 
Sophia Branoff Marilyn C.atherwood Area Director Area Manager 
the observer Friday January 26, 1973
4 


li •.'J. STU11E!T ~S~nCI~TI!ll \'IE HAVE HAD SO:IE 
GOOD Y:ARS &SOME 
DAD YEARS,,, 1972 WAS OtiE OF THEI't 

"The 6i~'t Student Govt dividend" 
At SMC 


Alumni visit set 
first time in recent student the week of January 
•xu"·n~·­government history that the 2. organizations did not carry a debt According lo the into the succeeding year. Te debt companying the was as high as $7,000 in 1969. signed "Anonymous," 
Stating the reason for this Government has had some bad statement, Marget said, "We are years and some good years ... l972 releasing this statement because was one of them." we believe in the spirit of full The letter disclosed a proposed financial disclosure." Although economizing move to be implanted the statement was unaudited by the administration which in­Marget stated that an independent volved shortening the month of audit team is preparing the February by one day in each of the customary annu.1l audit. next three years. 
The cashdividend, amounting to Students may claim their 2 cents, or "roughly .15 percent of diVidends between the hours of 8 the Student Activity Fee per and 12 and 1and 5, according to the student," will be distrbuted in the following schedule: Student Government offices during Students with laundry numbers-­
by Kathy Hessert Staff Reporter 
Saint Mary's College Alumnae are attempting further opening of eommunication channels with the t·ollege this week in a three day dorm-living experience. 
Housewives. lawyers and other professional women acting as presidents or representatives of th~ir local alumnae chapters are meeting with all areas of the SMC l'ommunity both at business meetings and in informal recep­tions Wednesday through Friday in Stapleton Lounge. 
The purpose of the conference is to make available to the alumnae a more well-rounded view of Saint Mary's and to educate them to the new paths and future roads of the l'ollege. 
Dr. Henry commented yesterday that the college is constantly changing. "We are bringing the alumnae back to upgrade their knowledge of what's happening here. We want their input." 
The national conference members visualize their clubs' function as much more multi­purpose than in the past and they see themselves moving with the l'Oilege toward improved spiritual and intellectual education. Conference members, who have gathered only socially in the past, will now gather to discuss them­selves, . the college, and the J'elationship between the two. 
Mrs. Rosemary Costa, president of the Springfield chapter, speculated, "The college didn't need us before because of the mass of alumnae. Now we are ever important with the change of administration and the loss of numbers." 
Throughout the meetings this week there existed a crossection of views concerning specific issues. The focal point however, 
remained an  interest  in  the  
students  and  their  overall  at­ 
titudes.  

Chorus·plans summer trip 
(continued from page 3) 
eonducted by Dr. Arthur Lawrence. Auditions to reduce the chorus are now in progress. The ratio of liO percent girls to 40 percrnt boys will be kept to maintain the balance of sound. 
The tour originates on the BOAC llight from Chicago to London. From London the group will have ~lops in Brussels. TriertGer­man~·>. lnnsbruck. Benice. Rome, Florence. Milan. Lucerne <Swit­zl'rland l. Dijon. Paris, and back to t.ondon. Tlw chorus will perform all'ivie functions. in churches, and IPntativt>ly at air force bases. 
Students are paying for three­fifths of the cost of the trip and the collegl' is paying for the rest. To lwlp financP the trip the chorus has 

TONIGHT 




DOUBLE SHAFT! 

backto back! 

&. 

r 
r 
r 
,. 
fDl METROCOLOR G ~ PANAVISION8 MGM 
0 ell 6:0.0_ __, 

recorded an album to be released · 
in March. 
McCray hopes that the tour will 
be a success. "Future tours would 
he in the United States to help 
rPcruit students to St. Mary's and 
Notre Dame." he said. 
On Friday. May 4, the chorus will perform its European repertoire for the SMC-N.D. and South Bend eommunity. 
St. Mary's music department has 
commissioned composer Daniel 
Pinkham to write a program for 
the choral group. which they will 
perform March 2. Mr Pinkham 
will be present for the concert and 
assist in the conducting. 
by Mary Eg~n 
Staff Reporter 

In a letter dated January 1, Notre Dame's Student Govern­ment and Student Union disclosed their financial operations for the first semester and announced the declaration of a cash dividend to all students. 
During the first semester the two organizations spent a total of $19,000 and now have $39,000 out a budget of $58,000 yet to spend. 
According to Mike Marget, Student Government Treasurer, "We're quite sure we'll be able to finish out the year in the black." If so. Marget noted, this will be the 
\10000-99999,. Monday, Jan. 29 00000-09999, Tuesday, Jan. 30 10000-19999, Wednesday, Jan. 31
'Irish Eyes Smiling' writer dies 
(C) 1973 New York Times New York, Jan. 25--George Graff, 86, who wrote the words to "When Irish Eyes are Smiling" an~ about 400 other songs that thrtlled earlier generations, died here Wednesday. The announcement was made 
today by the American Society of Composers, Authors and 
ND kazoo band to make debut 
(continued from page 3) 

Lefty Smith for a pep band to play at the games. 
The special shipment from Chicago became necessary when Singleton scoured the South Bend area and was unable to find a source of kazoos for the students. 
"We checked all kinds of wholesale novelty places and couldn't find one," he said. 
Singleton expressed the hope that the students will buy the kazoos. which will be sold at cost, and "join in the fun." He suggested that students planning to join the band prepare their musical talents by brushing up on such tunes as ''Make Me Smile," "The Hike Song." "Thus Spake Zarathustra tTheme from 2001) ", and of course. "The Victory March." 
"This will be Lefty Smith's late Christmas present," Singleton added. "We're going to give him a band." 
Looking into the future, Singleton also speculated on the forma lion of a marching band on skates to perform between periods. 
"This. of course, is contingent on \\'hether or not the band will allot us funds for skates and uniforms next year," he said. 
When questioned about further plans for the kazoo band, Singleton only smiled. 

NOTRE DAME STUDENTS 
We Desperately need 
your help today! Please try to sell one Mardi Gras Raffle Book this week. 
The Notre Dame charities need funds more than ever... we've never let them down before. 
Let's do something today. Thanks 
Mardi G.ras Committee 
20000-29999, Thursday, Feb. 1 
Publishers, of which he was a charter member. He joined it in 1914, two years after he collaborated with Ernest R. Ball in "When Irish Eyes Are Smiling." 

their choice of yellow, pink orWhile many of his songs became dividend cards."
widely known this one was a hit here and abroad largely because Chauncey Olcott sang it in "Isle 0' Meeting of the Notre Dame Dreams" after it was written woman's Caucaus. Sun. Jan. 
especially for him and John 28 7:30 pm. Mem. LibraryMcCormick. famed Irish tenor, Lounge New members made it popular through his welcome 
concerts and records. 

RENT A PINTO\ 
.1!5A DA~ 5 4
A MILEJ 

FOR. /VCR.f:. INFO,CALL: 
"Craig Kapson" or Lois Tranter 259-)981 
For students and faculty 21 and over 

RENT·A·CAR 
-~--------­
Friday, January 26, 1973 the observer 
5 

At Memorial Library 
Lack of funds axes control access plans 
by Jim Ferry Staff Reporter 

Insufficient funds have ef­fectively Pnded any attempts to control access to the Memorial librarv in the near future. 
Controlled access. which would deny persons not associated with Notre Dame use of the library, would he "loo costly" according to 1\lr. David E. Sparks, Director of Libraries. 
first proposed by both library officials and administration nwmbers almost a year ago, the t·ontrolled access proposal was dewed as a possible solution to the noise levels in the college library, rip-off rates. vandalism. and other "irrelevant uses of the library." "Our first proposal was that pveryone entering the library be 
HPC chair:man Ward resigning from post 
by Mary Janca Staff RfWorter 

Hall Presidents' Council Chairman Butch Ward is resigning his post. effective February 6. 
"I'm stepping down because my term of office runs out in Alumni, and I just feel that it's only right that if I'm not president of Alumni, I want to step down as presdient of the HPC." Ward explained. 
Hall presidents will elect a new chairman on February 13, who will assume office one week later. llntil February 20, Ward said that he will remain in the HPC. 
Discussing his own views on the pffel'tiveness of the HPC, he commented. "I think it's a very effective body, as far as bringing together the presidents of the halls and allowing them to share ideas so that they can make their jobs more effective in the halls. But I think it has the potential of being a much more effective body campus­wide." 
Ward believes that both the llall Presidents' Council and Student Government are "both potentially so strong that neither one can lead." A re-structuring of the entire student government. he feels. is the only solution to alleviate the conflict. 
"I think that student govern­ment. as we know it. is obsolete 


Mid-Winter 
:md that the type of representative government the student body 1weds will be centered in its hall governments. brought together in the Hall Presidents' Cou.1cil." he noted. 
1\lany people. Ward explained, feel that if the HPC became the onlv representative body on campus. they would be hurting their jobs in the halls. However. he contends that the major issues 
raised at Notre Dame over the past few years--parietals, drinking, co­l'ducation. and co-ed dorms-­involve the halls and should not be removed from them to an outside governing body. 
"If you centralize your power and vour efforts," he said, "you h01.ve' a much better chance of accomplishing your goals." 
When questioned about his accomplishments. as HPC chairman. Ward listed the re­structuring of student government hall life. and food sales within the halls. as a few of the topics discussed by the HPC this year. 
"Also. I like to think that we set up a little different trend as far as the wav the Hall Life Fund was given ct'own ... directing it toward a program in the halls, rather than towards the Student Activities Fund." he added. 
In addition. the Council in­\'estigated the need for co-ed 


SAVINGS EVENT 
with 
SAVINGS 
OF AS MUCH AS 

TRUE!!! 

PAY NEXT SUMMER 
Pay one-third in June, one-third in July and one-third in August 

NO INTEREST OR CARRYING CHARGE 
required to show their iden­tification cards, which would be a considerably expensive operation." said Sparks. 
"But we just can't do it. We need the money for books. We have no instrumentality of access at the door and we won't have one. We \\'ill have more monitors though." "As a private library, we have a I'Psponsibility to our clientele, the 

Ward: will remain with HPC till F<?bruary 20. 
dorms. 
"I think we were basically a hodv this vear that was faced \rithout anv edicts handed down from the. Trustees or Ad­ministration that we had to cope \\'ilh and react to. Rather than that. we were trying to look as \\'hat the University is and can be, and try to work positively towards it." Ill' stated. 
Ward noted a definite lack of student interest in student government. primarily because students felt unable to do anything. 
This. he believes. was a con­
tributing factor. which prohibited 
him from achieving all that he set 
out to. 
The apathy. he added, "is a two­
sided fault." of both the past and 
present student governments, and 
of the student body itself. 

Savings when you need them 
SUBURBAN COATS & JACKET'S 
savings of 
1f4 r12J 1f3 

Cords, fur collars, nylon quilted, plaids and others. 
PLUS: Sweaters, crews, turtles, convertibles, values to $15, now $9.90. Flannel Shirts, reg. $6, now $4.50. Sweaters & Shirts, values -to $22, now $11.90. Shirts & Tops, denims, cotton suedes, cord:s, values to $22, now one-half. Bik.e Stuff by Robert Bruce, values to $15, now $9.90...this and much, much more! True!! 

Notre Dame-St. Mary's com­munitv. But we also have the problem of being a good neigh­bor." he continued. 
"l.U. South Bend, Bethel College. Western Michigan llniversity, Andrews University, (;oshen College. Tri-State College, <md Valparaiso are all our neigh­bors. We are in the middle of this set of institutions and we have the strongest bibliographical struc­ture. Because of this. we have several responsibilities to our neighbors." 
Sparks noted that widespread outside use of Notre Dame's librarv could have advt~rse effects on the operations of other schools as well. 
For instance. a small institution like Bethel. which is struggling to 
South Bend: 37°, Cold & Snowy 
Nassau: 73°, Warm & Sunny 
GOOSE SEZ: I'll take Nassau 
Sign-ups in 2nd Floor Ticket Office 
LaFortune Center 1/25 3:00-4:30 
PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Main Building 

,
INTERVIEWS FOR WEEK OF FEBRUARY 5 
Ill,
,
Interviews are for seniors and graduate students. Sign-up 
schedules are in Room 207, Main Building. Interview times must be selected and signed for in person. Hours are 8:00 a.m. to 
5:00 p.m. each day, exc:ept Friday. The Placement Manual gives 
' 

additional information regarding interviews and procedures. ~ FEB. 5 Ayr•Way Stores. ,1 All Baccalaureate degrees and disciplines. 
~ 

Dow Corning Corporation. 
,
BS, MS in Ch .E. Ebasco Services, Inc. BS in E.E,, M.E., Met. BS, MS in C.E., M.E.N.O., Chem. Inland Steel Company. BS in Met. BS in M.E., Ch.E., M.E.I.O., E.E., M.B.A. with Engr. background, BBA in Acct. and Fin. Kraftco Corp,oration. MBA. OWens-Illinois, Inc. All BBA. 
FEB, 6 Dow Corning Corporation. BS in E.E. and M.E. BS, MS in Ch-E. Hallmark Cards Inc. MBA. BS, MS in Math and M.E. Libbey-Dwens-Ford Company. BS in C.E., E.E., M.E., Chem., Physics. Northern Indiana Public Service Company. BS in E.E., M.E., C.E. BBA in Acct. 
U.S. A.!!!!L.!:!!!.!:eriel Command. B,M,D in M.E. and E.E. 
FEB. 6/7 Ford Motor Company. 
BBA in Acct., Fin., Mkt., Mgt. MBA. BS in M.E.I.O. BS, 
MS in M.E. and Engr.Sci. MBS with Engr. or Sci. back· 
ground. 

FEB. 7 American Fletcher National Bank, All BBA. • Continental C•an Company. MBA. Dow Corning Corporation. BS, HS in Chan. Mead Johnson IS. Company. 
MBA. 

FEB. 8 Aetna Life & Casualty co. • Group Division. 
All BA and BBA.• BS in Engr. and SCi. for Sales 
and Service. 

Continental Can Company. 
All BA and BBA. BS in M.E., M.E.I.O., E.E. 
Dow Corning Corporation. 
BBA in Acct. and Hkt, MBA with· Acct. and Hkt. back• 
grounds. 

Procter &Gamble Co. 
BS, MS in Ch.E., M.E., E.E., M.E.I.O., C.E. MBA with 
tech. undergraduate degree. 
FEB. 9 Christian Brothers. All degrees and disciplines. IBM {International Business Machines Corp.} All degrees and disciplines • Seidman & Seid111111o:. BBA in Acct. 
U.S. 
Naval Weapons Laboratory. BS, MS in E.E., M.E., A.E. 

U.S. 
Patent Office, BS, MS in M.E. and Ch.E. Wheelabrator-Frye Inc. BS, MS in M.E., E.E., C.E., M.E.I.O.


1 

Employer information. Alternatives. Teaching. Sunmer. Action/Peace Corps/Vista. Federal Service. Room 222, Administration Bldg. 
1/25/73 
attain its level of operation, can have its student body drained away by our library, and never have an idea what its library needs are. This can be dangerous for them. for it can affect ac­ereditation." he explained. 
"This is a big building, with a lot of room. I.U.S.B. and Andrews students will probably continue to come here. bu~ they can't borrow books here without a note from their own librarian. This is not a negative thing at all. but more of an information-gathering device," Sparks said. 
"In the large view. we're all in education. Where we can help each other. we should help each other. And if we should tread on one another's toes, we should step lightly." he concluded. 

ON THE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAME 
• 
Paint af Order
THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
All the News 
John Abowd Dan Thornton Editor-in-Chief Business Manager
NEWS: 283-1715 EDITORIALS: 283-8661 
that's Fit to Print 
Don Ruane BUSINESS: 283-7471 Joe Butler Executive Editor Advertising Manager 
mike baum 
Friday January 26, 1973 
Peace Observance 
An end to the longest, most divisive war in American history is here. A time of peace--perhaps even an "era of peace"-­is here. Reunion of families once wrenched apart by fate is imminent. Most important of all, for the first time since the mid-1960's, Americans are searching, possibly in vain, possibly out of desparation, but most certainly from some heartfelt need, for a meaning contained somewhere in this end that has finally arrived. 
It is not easy to define the mood of l'ither the campus or the nation on the eve of the Vietnam cease-fire. As Profesor Matthew Fitzsimons noted in the Academic Council meeting Tuesday, one docs not feel like running out into the streets and kissing the first girl one meets, as was perhaps the case in 1945. Neither, on the other hand, does one feel like painting one's face white and carrying crosses to the ROTC building. 
Each of us may feel relieved, and most of us certainly feel that it's about time, but we probably also feel that relief and resentment are insufficient reactions to the great war that was punctuated by so many pangs but ended with only a solitary whimper. 
The Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Com­munity, together with much of South Bend, will observe the peace this Sunday in the Athletic and Convocation Center. This event has been wisely titled "Ob­servance" rather than what might have been appropriate following one of America's more laudable wars,. 
In times of stress, of trouble, or of great questioning, to gather with our fellow men is one of our greatest needs. Now is certainly such a time. We may not find all the answers at the ACC on Sunday. It is doubtful whether anyone at Notre Dame, or for that matter anyone anywhere in the world, has the answers, or could even tell us where to look for them. We must, nevertheless, come to the ACC to question, and to pray with our friends at Notre Dame. Our friends and neighbors and teachers and leaders all need our help, and a moment's thought will reveal how much we need theirs. 
The "Peace Observance" is a truly necessary community-oriented event. It may be our ideal opportunity to learn from the past few years, to heal the wounds of a long period of fighting and to rise to meet a future that certainly seems brighter than our past. 
The Editorial Board 

Bite the Bullet 
It's officially unofficial now--women will not be allowed to move off campus next year. Last year the argument ad­vanced for this differential treament made at least some sense. Three hun­dred female students don't go very far and if they were not highly visible it would be difficult to keep saying "Notre Dame is coeducational." 
Actually, the economics or resmential facilities was the controlling factor in the decision. Last year the overwhelming majority of incoming females were freshmen and sophomores. Consequently two residence halls were needed to ac­comodate the female students who wanted on-campus rooms. If some of these students had been granted per­m iss ion to live off campus the predicted increase in enrollment necessary to fill all of Badin and Walsh's beds would have been more than the university was prepared to accept. 
This is not an attempt to defend the first decision but it does show that the public explanation had some more familiar reasoning behind it. The careful predictions necessary to insure that every bed will be filled when one is only talking about 325 beds is substantial. Even if the university can't be forgiven for the past decision, the inequities can at least be overlooked. 
The decision to continue the rule cannot be dealt with so quickly. The critical reason for the continuation of the rule is still ecnonmic. Next year Notre Dame Will have approximately 800 female students and about 800 beds to fill in female dorms. However, at least 325 of ne~f~_ar~ female students will be up­percla~~n. It is not fair to require them to liVe< 9n campus when their male counterparts ate not. In fact, it is utterly indefensible. 
The university cannot be forgiven for poor planning in terms of the female residence capacity. ~eryone knows that there were plenty of people around ready and willing to help prevent a mistake like having too many beds in the female dorms. Everyone a.lso knows that the university cannot ~ontinue to discriminate on the bais of sex and certainly cannot require ever~<(>ne to live on campus. 
That leaves one alternative. Permit females to live off campus under the same conditions as males. Then, expand the female enrollment to fill the four female dorms. The university cannot argue that this will increase enrollment too much because that is nobody's fault but their own. Notre Dame cannot be permitted to discriminate on the basis of sex simply because it was economically convenient to do so. The problem is not new. It could have been anticipated and it wasn't--its time to bite the bullet. 
John Abowd 

Living as we do in an era of distrust, suspicion and hatred, and if you don't think so. try and cash a check in a strange city, we habitually scan the horizons for a flash of hope, a sign that America, perhaps the world. will indeed draw together in brotherhood and open a new era of peace and understanding. 
Afew of us (damn few) thought that George McGovern was one such hope-an idealist. a visionary, a compassionate humanist whose idealism and charismatic leadership could bring peace to the land. Children'! crusades. however, are out of date, and so, apparently, was George. 
But rejoice! The proverbial ill-wind has blown to some good effect after all! Here when we few (the same damn few) were quietly mourning the reinauguration of Richard Nixon, it occured to me that the event was a blessing in drag. For Mr. Nixon is now free to pursue a policy. but recently begun, that promises to quiet America. A program of pacification growing out of an insight into human affairs to unique as to smack of genius, yet, in hindsight, reveals the beauty of true simplicity. 
I refer of course. to the current war to repress the press. 
The signs are all heartening. Newsmen from Jersey to California are sitting quietly in cells (rather than out on the streets) in contempt of court for refusing to reveal the names of confidential sources and materials gathered in the pursuit of the news. 
This is considered Good Technique in the game, since it leaves newswriters with two choices. Either you name your sources to any judge or Congressional Committee that shows passing interest and lose every source worthy of the name, or you hum the Folsom Prison Blues while wondering just how far up the river you can go-and meditate that you can't learn any news anyway. 
Things are going well on the "war of nerves" front too, as the Washington Post, a perennial nuisance, remains banned from the White House social events, and several television stations learn just how hard it can be to renew a license. 
And why is this a good thing? Consider. Almost all of the moral confusion. the ethical weariness, the apathv and resigned distaste that characterizes the American's view of public affairs has been caused hv the ?tess. 
·Almost all. I say. of those things that have robbed our people of the childlike innocence and joy that once made us the hope of the world are due to the Nemesis Newspaper. 
Did the majority of Americans ever think for a minute that the war against godless Communism in Southeast Asia was a tawdry sham, a fabrication of the White House? Not until the accursed New York Times printed the "Pentagon Papers." 
Did we. as a nation. worry at all about the war? Not until the per­nicious press started running stories on those noisy peaceniks. 
Did we worry that big-time politics in the United States had become indistinguishable from the Mafia? Not until Demon Print thought up Watergate and Russian grain. (To say nothing of the historically significant Bobby Baker. et alia.) 
The thing. you see, that ruins our sleep, strips us of enthusiasm, and leaves us impotent before world criticism is knowledge. 
"You shall know the truth and the truth shall make you free"? Hardly. You shall know the truth and the truth shall make you despair. 
Does the information we get from the media do us any tangible good? Well. actually, no. Of the total citizenry of the country, the majority won't feel like doing anything just right now, what with the garage to paint and all. the large minority will not want to do anything, since somebody. probably the President, must certainly know more than they do. 
The remaining small minority are just enough to disrupt our peaceful existence. polarize our country, ruffle us with the winds of dissension and hatred. and do absolutely no good at all. ~ Now this view of a free and unshackled Press as a threat to hap­piness is admitedly a bit hard to take at first. We have been con­ditioned from birth by rampant liberalism. Schools have incculcated in us the glib maxim that knowledge is essential to freedom, but this is just so much sophistry. 
In reality. you see. it is not necessary to be free or informed. 
The information that journalists are daily shoving down our throats is worse than useless. It tells us that we are controlled, managed, betrayed with appaling regularity-and here we had thought of our­selves as masters of our government, rather than the other way around. 
f<'ar better that we live in ignorance. For, you see, if we believe that all is right and good. then it doesn't matter what the facts are. For. you see. all that is important is what we believe, not what is, and an unfettered press may destroy these all-important beliefs. 
the observer 
Managing Editor: Joe· A~U. 

News Editor: Anthony Abowd 
St. Mary's Editor: Maria Gallagher 
Editorial Editor: Jerry Lutkus 
Features Editor: Rod Brave 

Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson 
Associate Editors: Bob Higgins, Ed Ellis 
Special Projects Editor: Dan Barrett 
Night Editor: Joe Abell Assistant Night Editor: Maria Gallagher 
Layout: Bill Brink, Mike Baum Pictures: Jerome Phillips 
Copy Editor: Mike Baum Sports Night Editor:S: Greg Corgan, Tom McKenney Typists: Dave Rust. Dianne Chermside, Mary Romer, Tom Modglin, Rich Meloy Night Controller: Harry Chung 

---~-

Dpinian The Oppressive "Community'' 
----~ --~--­
OBSERVER 
COMMENT 
Page 7 
dan barrett 
Words like"eompulsory military training" have always had anoppressivering to me, but I had to eome to Notre Dame before the phrase "Christian Community," took on that same ring. It has taken mP a while. but I have come to realize that Notre Dame is not a community, nor is it run in a Christian manner. We only hear that phrasewhen the administration wants us to do something their way.
yj· wP are a real community, why were the wishes of the students so blatently ignored when the mprger was ruined by a group of administrators who would not work together? Couldn't both ad­ministrations have set aside their pride and worked for the whole community's good? They could have but the bitter truth is that the student wasn't con­~idered when our Christian Community decided to split itself up. 
Pawns in an unChristian Game 
HPmember those pictures of angry St. Mary's freshmen waving their letters of acceptance to ND­
SMC and trying to get justice, only to be told that maybe they should go somewhere else? But even the ones who stayed soon discovered they should have left our Christian Community. For they discovered not only the hassle and expense involved in taking those assured ND courses, but also that they were only pawns in a very mean and unChristian game. 
And just when the kids of the community thought that a compromise allowing them to take the eourses they were promised could be worked out, ~omebody decided to change the calendar. Can you imagine being a co-exchange student when the other school is on a different schedule? 
lt turns out. however. that somebody counted 
their votes wrong last year and angry students 
managed to carry the issue. We won the right to 
have our views acknowledged, at least for one year. 
But somebody also decided enough was enough, and 
the administration returned to their old game plan. 
Defenseless 

This year the leaders of our Christian Community 
decided to cram the issue down our throat while we 
\H're without the news media and unable to protest. 
At the same time. the report of a committee chosen 
from the community was ignored, and one man 
decided that Farley Hall would be a woman's dorm 
next year. And of co~rse plans were too far along to 
ehange the choice when exams were over and students could organize with the media's help. Neat. eh? 
Almost as neat as the handling of the Lewis HaU 
incident. "One strike and you're out lady.l\nd all 
~·ou get from your experience is a letter of rec­
eornmendation (?) from Father Hesburgh and a 
reminder that your visa will probably be revoked if 
~·ou stay around to try to get the due-process 
guarenteed to you." I really can't say that I am 
very proud to be a part of the community that 
perpetrated this injustice. <And it was an injustice, 
(•ven if she did do all the things of which she was 
accused but allegedly not allowed to defend herself 
of.> 
But perhaps we students are as much to blame for this an anyone. We have unthinkingly swallowed the Christian Community line for so long that at times we seem like •hypochondriacs -always sneaking around to see if we can find anyone who is secretly damaging our little utopia. We sit around making anonymous phone calls that slit each others throats. oblivious to fue fact that the administration ean do it iust fine by themselves. 
Tenure: Biallas and Messbarger 
Two cases in point are Len Biallas and Dr. Paul Mcssbarger. Biallas is a theology teacher who has taught one of the mcst popular and best subscribed theology courses on campus. When he was in-~ formed that he would not be asked back, Biallas was not given any indication that his teaching had been found to be deficient. The leaders of our Christian Community who are in charge of the Theology department simply chose to ignore the mandate students had given both the department and Biallas. 
Dr. Messbarger's case is an even clearer one. He has been an example to the students from the day he arrived at St. Mary's . has untouchable credentials, has been published. and is rather popular with the ~tudents. I took a course from the man last ~emester on a recommendation from two friends who described him as one of the best teachers they t•ver had. And I found that I, along with most of the students in the class, thought Messbarger was the best teacher I have had here. 
Messbarger: Bad Example 
It appears that Dr. Messbarger was a bad Pxarnple to the students-he opposed the ad­ministration when he thought they were wrong. He was a bad example because his dedication to higher Pducation. even in the face of a bureaucratic ad­ministration. was not compatible with a Christian Community. 
And everytime I hear the words "Christian 
Community" I shudder in anticipation of another 
incident in the growing list. Another security in­
eident. another big decision made improperly or 
when students aren't here. or another parietal in­
l'ident. And it makes me angry when I think of the 
misrepresentation of the truth that Notre Dame 
propagates in every newsleter, in every speech, and 
in too many dealings with the students. 
The phrase ''Christian Community" has become oppressivebecause the administration has used it to 
~addle us with all the responsibilities it entails, but 
persistently refused to grant the freedoms that are 
also intrinsic to the phrase. It's time they read the 
part in the preamble of the student manual which 
~ays "Members of the Notre Dame community 
should be sensitive people, aware of the needs and 
rights of others. and cultured in word and deed." 
Letter... 
1-:ditor: 
I am writing concerning the Supreme Court decision of Jan. 22 which now allows a woman to have an abortion within the first three months of pregnancy. This ruling appalls me. and the reasoning behind the judges' verdict strikes me as fallacious. 
Justice Blackman mentions the privacy of the woman over her bodv. However. he fails to stress the i·act that the unborn should and must have legitimate rights within our constitutional system. western Christian society is ·fostered on the ideal of the dignity and uniqueness of the human individual. The Supreme Court has taken a 
daanesbury 
position directly contrary to this ideal. The fetus can now be aborted if the woman desires, and this is said to be perfectly "legal." 
I question the legality of a society that renders a decision to murder the unborn. 
ln the past two decades, the Supreme Court has consistently upheld the rights of the individual. This recent ruling opposes this precedent. and takes away the rights of one segment of our humanity; namely, the unborn. If 1 he highest court in our land cannot protect this segment and every other segment of society, then our t'ivilization is in serious trouble. What will be hext on the national agenda-euthanasia? I am 
011, Jfi/Rk; YWR RePORT"

O.K., P8iR_ I't.f.-. 
CA/!!0 c..qMe-Ye-5713RCJ,£1Y.

PVT YOVR lti!Nr6R 
youR. F/lTHcR. RIW .RIGHT

CORTIN IH£ 
{)()T R/'lf) HAl? IT FRA/16/).

/111/l-FIRST lf/IAIG 
He's HANGtNt; 1/ VP IN

TOMORROW. 
HIS 5T7/0Y NtJW.

" 

Eiardian Knat Fit to Smile 
Ed Ellis 
It is. of course. seldom that lor any of my friends will advocate such a definitive course of action as "smiling." It just doesn't seem to "fit," Pither with us or with life around the Dome, as neatly as, for example, a permanently unhappy cynical grimace might fit. 
And it must be admitted, even by our own resident Leibniz, that Notre Dame is not a place conducive to smiling. The weather is perverse, the educational atmostphere1worse. and the social arena clearly an £'xample of some sort of colossal cosmic miscue. We could go further along these lines, considering the security system, the acdemic eounseling system, the student gov't. the student body, etc., blah, blah. blah. however. that's reduJildant so we won't. 
L£'t us note. rather. that it is our duty in life, if we have any duties whatsoever. to .maximize happiness, our own and others. And it is Pminently clear at this point that a permanently unhappy cynical grimace does little to make people happy. Moreover, such a visage of chronic dismay serves often to reinforce both a person's own unhappiness. and. more important, his or her complete inability to comprehend anything pleasent. Witness, for example, the scholarly gent who. while playing football in his shirtsleeves last week, insisted that the good weather would likely cause the entire campus to con­tracy eases of the plague, anthrax, lumbago, and the gout. 
Now no fool (not even myself) would ever suggest wandering about the campus wearing a silly ear-to-ear grin spreading the gospel of last night's basketball g<tme. or the night before's Geology tutorial, or Pven the latest catastrophe befalling the Philadelphia 76er's. Let us not be quite that stupid. 
The thoughtful among us, however, might like to note that life is really little more than a prolonged series of ups and downs of variable heights and depths <a social scientist might even want to graph this as a ~lightly intoxicated sine curve). In any case, no matter how bad things may be in .Janurary.we can usually be certain that by February or March they will either be at or rising toward a peak. And no frowning. or snarling, or outrignt bitching is going to make the depths an~· less deep. or the heights any more lofty. For the most part, they will simply happen. for that is the nature of life. • 
A few moments serious reflection should verify. at least for most Domers. that life is somwhat less than one big coral accumilation of downs. After all. twenty minutes griping about Emil T.'s latest tour de force serves little real purpose than to make everyone in a given ~ection a shade grumpy. Furthermore, it wastes good drinking time at Nickie's. Corby's, Jay's, or wherever. Ten years from now, most of us will probably be well enough off to laugh at a few poor marks anvwav. 
And so. rather than behaving as if all of us were victims of some sort of comprehensive existential dread, let us be perhaps somewhat lax in judgement of our fates. Life, while usually disappointing, is rarely that bad: unless. of course, we make it that way. 
A friend of mine has often suggested a few cold Stroh's as a cure for 
any but the most severe depression <in which case we move up to 
Southern Comfort or a good bourbon). Let us firmly endorse this 
position. and. whould we ever feel that life is a bit much (apparently a 
common thought around here), let us reflect that it will most likely 
improve by some future date, and that by smiling and ignoring the 
problem. we are probably far more likely to be alleviating it than by 
ranting and raving in the fashion of a teetotaling Great Awakening 
preacher trying to eradicate bad thoughts. 
In short. drink up, for God's sake. 
. .. on abortion 
horrified at the possibilities. 
The argument might be made that a 3-month fetus should not be accorded the rights of a fully developed person. I disagree with this contention. The fetus is in­stilled with a soul. and has all the future potential to fulfill his existence outside the mother's womb. 
This society has an obligation to respect human life in all its facets; the high court has taken an awesome and terrible step back­ward. 
Sincerely, Ric~ard Bostwick 254 Farley Hall 
IJIIrry trudeau 


the observer Friday January 26, 1973
8 



A university, while seen by many as a 
unified identity, is a combination of diverse images. The flavor of a university 
is to be gained from the celebration of 
those different images. 





Friday January 26, 1973 
By a former SMC president 
An evaluation of ND-SMC overseas 
by Mary Janca 
the program," was contracted for Observer Reporter five years. So, for the next year and the year after, we'll have to 
Sister M. Alma, Director of Saint Mary's Overseas Program, cited "The only reason I looked into an evaluation of the Rome this program," she explained, program and an investigation into "was in case the enrollment of the possibility of new programs as Notre Dame women students the purpose of her recently com-became so large that the Notre pleted. semester-long review of Dame Angers program might not SMC's study abroad program. be able to accomodate the Saint 
Topics of primary importance, Mary's program. At this time, Pm she said, include "the academic not suggesting it in place of the area, living situations, financial Angers program. But just in case picture, cultural advantages, and we might not be permitted into the travel opportunity." Angers program, I want to have an 
Concerning the sites being alternative ready." considered for new abroad Strasbourg, she continued, is a programs. she stated, "the cities I bi-lingual city which could ac-stopped at and made inquiries and comodate both the French and investigations, were those places German programs. where students had already In addition to these programs requested information." being considered, Sr. Alma has 
In search of an English-speaking compiled "a file for students with program, she continued, she made information from hundreds of a "quite thorough investigation" of colleges in the United States, who Dublin. are offering programs in 
"I foresee no change 
for next year ••• ,, 
of studying in Barcelona, Spain. 
"I got some very good recom­mendations there which I will turn in to the president. The city of Barcelona is ideally located for its 
IT'S HERE
climate and is just a few miles from the mountain areas where there is snow almost all year round. The University is very old and has a very fine academic reputation." she commented. 
TONIGHT
The earliest possible date for a St. Mary's-sponsored program in Dublin or Barcelona, she stated, would be September, 1974. 
& 
"However, if there are students 
. who wish to go in 1973, I will assist them with arrangements," she added. 
SATURDAY AT 
The third city visited, Sr. Alma 
FRANKIE'S
continued. was Strasbourg, France. 
Dance To The Sounds of 
COLD SHOT 
Life! 

Drink 
COLD SCHLITZ 
from 9 :30 to 1 :30 


Come early and enioy our 
Steak Specia.l -1/2 lb. rib eye steak -soup, bread, butter, salad 
and coffee $1.75 
live in hotels." portunity to have many of their After that time, students classes taught right on the places continue to live in hotels where the event studied has oc­"pensiones", which, she explained curred." are similar to a boarding house, 
Courses taught primarily in­"where you wouldn't have first­elude sophomore courses, and in class hotel conditions--you might particular. she added, courses not have private baths or running 
, which lend themselves to that water in the rooms, but you would specific location. have good food and central 
"At the present time," sr: Alma heating." stated, "I foresee no change for Consideration of the "pensiones" next year ... though I can't say stems from the rising hotel costs, definitely because we haven't yet coupled with the devaluation of the set up the curriculum ~<lr Sep-dollar in Italy. tember." "The question of living with 
Presently, Italian language, families in Italy," Sister com­Italian literature, and Italian mened, "is entirely different from social problems are being taught in the situation in France. According the native language. Another to the Italian culture, the family is course, she continued, might a ·very closely-knit unit, and they possibly be added which will be seldom invite outsiders into meals, taught in Italian. She stated, much less to come into their family however. that the type of course and live as a member of the 
family."
offered will depend upon the
proficiency of the ins1:ructor in the 

(continued on page 10)
language. Regarding a eo-exchange 
program for studenu: in the SMC Rome study, Sr. Alm~1 said. "some 

Class of '73 presentsstudents have taken courses in what is known as the Grllgorian University there, in sociology, and psychology. And others have taken courses at the Loyola University in Rome Program." 
M.A.S.H. 
This . policy, she added, will continue next year, but warned that students must also be enrolled in 12 semester hours from the the 

Sat. Jan. 27 8:00pm
St. Mary's program, in orderto be considered full-time students. Full credit is granted to SMC 

O'Laughlin Aud. S.M.C.
students who participate in this co­exchange program. She added, however that "I can't speak for the 
$1.00
University of Notre Dame." 
Concerning the housing situation. she stated the hotel, currently used by the students in 
Sr. Alma Peter: former SMC 
president reviews overseas programs. 
$3.50 
'S-TRACK STEREO TAPES ·1 00% guaranteed :good selection Call 1212 


$1 cover charge entitles 
all those 2·1 or over 1 free drink... Also watch for _upcoming specials for 
Franlcies & Nickies 
.. 
• 
... 

When questioned about student housing, she replied, "I believe that they will be living with families, because there is a dif­ferent type of hospitality and open arrangements," in contrast to the Rome program, where students reside in hotels. 
The basic Sophomore year courses will be taught, in addition to Irish history, culture, and literature. The decision of St. Mary's to establish their own school in Dublin, "depends upon what the Faculty Committee and administration decide," she in­formed. 
Besides the Dublin program, Sr. Alma investigated the possibility European, African, and South American countries." Students, she said, may stop in Room 115, Le Mans Hall. to receive information. 
Discussing student opinion and her own impressions of the Rome program. Sr. Alma remarked "I'm very pleased with the Rome Program and, as far as I can tell, the students are exceptionally enthusiastic about it this year. They filled out the regular fac-glty evaluation forms and it was almost a unanimous positive statement. 
"They were particularly pleased with the central location of the place where they stay, and the central location of their classes, because it gives them an op­


• 
• 
the observer Friday January 26, 1973
10 
Current overseas program looks good to Sr. Alma 
(continued from page 9) 
1\ second reason for the students' living in hotels. she noted, is that the ltulian people are still quite eonservative. and have a decided eonduct that they expect from tlwir young people. 
"I think the American students would rind this very difficult, or a I most impossible. for example, to lw in by 10:00 at night. and things like that." Sr. Alma stated. 
Thirdly. she noted that most Italinn i'amilies reside in small apartments. and would not have tlw room to house a student. 
Tlw jJOssibility of a Junior Year abroad program. said Sister. is not hPing eonsidered . 
"Tlw reason for having the sophomore year abroad is that the students themselves and the faculty have requested this heeause it does not break into the major. This gives the student the opportunity to study in Europe without breaking into the major sequenee of courses," she ex­plailwd. 
Sister noted no major dif­fprences between the academic ealendar followed by students 
abroad and the one used here on !ember. she concluded. should the main campus. attend an important meeting Students interested in attending !\londav. January 2~. at !i::!O p.m. 
th<• Home program next Sep-in Carroll Hall at SMC. 
Alumni visit St. Mary's 
(continued from page 4) 
(;ary representative. Mrs. Betty Ilay!'s made point of "the enor­mous improvement in knowing what really is going on by sleeping. t•ating and living with the students. 
\VP want them to love Saint Mary's as \\'l' did but on their own terms." 
l\lrs. Margaret On'Neil, Saeram<'nto. "It's better than the magazine ... 
"A striving for survival..." said l\lrs. Patricia Misrach. Mrs. (;ail Donovan. a professional woman herself. cited Martina llorn<'r. the new president of Hadeliff. "She said that we need women of confidence that don't ft•ar success and that is what this place should be doing." 
With ll<•nry's utilization of l'Ommunity government. the in­fluence of alumnae is greatly inereased. But to participate they must be aware of theSMC of today, aeeording to Henry. 
Through the efforts of a "Saint l\lary's College Report". monthly ··communitv NPwsletter.·· n•vamping or' the "Courier" and more alumnae "live-ins" this will lw more prfieiently accomplished. lw hopes. 
Lewis Hall student jumped 
,\ ";..Jotre Dame student residing 
in Le,~>\5 Hall was attacked last 
night in 't"e vicinity of her dorm. 
ller assailnnts were described as 
"two youi\g boys." 
Notre Dame Security did not 
release a statement on the incident 
hut it was learned by the Observer 
that the victim was safe in her
dorm room at 11:00 p.m. after rorfeiting her purse and her shoe hag to the youths. 

WHAT'S YOUR GIRL BACK HOME 
DOING TONIGHT? 



Long distance still is the next best thing to being 


@ Indiana Bell 

... AT A BARGAIN RATE OF ONLY PER MONTH
$26.50 FOR BOTH 
Typewriters and adding machines at surprisingly low rates, too. 
·~­
2022 South Bend Ave. South Bend, Indiana 
BANKAMERIC::'I
272-5.482 
-
wgq.:u:&

One block west of Ironwood Dr. 
~---===========================~ 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 

Wanted: 1 UCLA Ticket. Call Steve 1059. 
Wanted-2or 4general admission tickets to UCLA game. Call 5185 or 6791. Thanks. 
Need 2 tickets to UCLA. Call 232· 6253. 
OVERSEAS JOBS FOR STUDENTS Australia, Europe, S. America, Africa. Most professions. summer or full time, expenses paid, sightseeing. Free information, write, TWR Co. Dept. F2, 2550 Telegraph Ave., Berkeley, CA 94704. 
Ride needed to Valparaiso on Sunday after 1:30 pm. Call 1743, Bill. 
Need UCLA B·Ball tix, call Scott 1791 or see in 1105 Grace. 
FOR SALE 

Westinghouse and Santo Com. pact Refrigerators. Discount prices to ND -SMC students and faculty. Many models available for immediate free delivery. Call Tom 234·0578 or 232·2618. 
'68 VW in excellent condition ­$1000. Call232-3631 after 5 pm. 
For Sale Ampex 87R am.fm stereo cassette system. Ex­cellent condition. Cheap-Must sell. Call Bob -2140. 
B·track stereo tapes. $3.50. large selection. Call 1212 and ask for Kurt. 
'71 Honda 600 sedan. Like new cond. 40 MPG economy. 4 speed, bucket seats, front wheel drive. $950. J.M. Causey, days 282-2591, eves 291­2975. 
Panasonic eight-track record· playback tape deck. Perfect cond. $70.00. Ken 8620. 
Allied reel.to.reel tape deck. Orig. cost $150. Sell for best offer. Call Joe 8427~ 
NOTICES 

1come to you with only Karate · my empty hands. I have no weapons; but should I be forced to defend myself, my principals or my honor, Should it be a matter of life or death, right or wrong, Then here are my weapons -karate -my empty hands. 
Join the Notre Dame Karate Club. Call Randy 6143. 
Interested in learning how to read and study faster? Evelyn Wood Reading Dynamics will be starting classes shortly. Sign up before mini·lessons and save 40 percent on the course. Call 3854. 
Michiana Sports Car Club meeting B pm Feb. 1. First Bank & Trust US 31 North & Cleveland Road. Phone 272· 
'--9914. 
Musicians to play in orchestra for musical comedy review. Call 
Marty at 4436 for details. 
ON CAMPUS INTERVIEWS THURS. FEB. B. 
Camp Wayne: chlldrens summer camp N.E. Pennsylvania. 3 11rs. NYC & Phila. Counselors who like children with specialties in sports, water, arts, & science activities. Sign. up room 207, Administration Bldg. Write 633 Barnard Ave., Woodmere N.Y. 11598. 
Sun Freaks: Nassau is warm, sunny, clear & dry. Deepen your Florida tan. March 9·16. $189. 
ATTENTION ALL DOGS If you are a large, black, male dog, half Newfoundland (or full -blooded for that matterJ adopted from the St. Joe Humane Society nearly 2 yrs. ago, and you would like to meet an attractive, wanton female with similar background, call 288·6192, and hurry, she's in heat right now! 
Part.time jobs available for Hostesses, Cocktail Waitresses & Busboys. Please apply in person between 2& 5 pm, Boars Head Restaurant 52885 US 31 North South Bend. 
Spend your Spring break by doing something different this year. The YOUNG place to be where all 
the ACTION Is PARTIES GIRLS· GOOD· TIMES reduced rates for ND·SI. Marys students. ACAPULCO 
257.50 Price includes round trip air fare (Chicago) all ocean front hotel accommodations. For reservations call Del Cooper 272·3004. 
Before you buy a diamond learn all the facts-II may save you a great deal. Call: James 3118. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost: Brown purse on South Quad. Ellen 4437 
Lost: on South Quad . SMC Class Ring with initials K.A.O.. If found please call Kayo at 233· 2274. 
Lost: silver watch with black band and safety pin on Dec. 10. Please contact Mary Beth, 5366, 537 R.N. SMC. 
Lost: gold medal of Christ. Of great value to me. Reward. Nick 1747, 805 Grace. 
Lost electric Timex watch before Thanksgiving. Please return, reward. Mike 1496. 
Found: GM ignition key 1·20·73 between fieldhouse & library. Call 7471. 
SMC girl who helped carry bag of books on 1:30 shuttle Sat. nile · please contact Pamela . 4816 · 439 Hoi y Cross. 
FOR RENT 
Bedroom for rent in private home one mile from campus. All privileges of comfortable home including cooking and laundry. 272·2445 after 8 pm. 


Friday January 26, 1973 the observer 11 
leers host league leading MSU 
by Jim Donaldson Sports Editor 
There'll be number one teams under both domes of the ACC this wl'ekend. 
Michigan State's hockey team isn't on the verge of setting any 
NCAA records but coach Amo Bessone's Spartans have been beating their opponents like no previous M.S.u. club and are currently first in the Western Collegiate Hockey Association standings with a 10-2-1 mark and 31 title points. 
So. if you think "Digger" Phelps has it rough. consider "Lefty" Smith. who has to worry about playing the best hockey team in the wt•st on successive nights. The Irish and Spartans will face off Friday and Saturday at 7:30p.m. with two points at stake each time. 
0\'erall. Michigan State has a 16­-1-1 record and has won 12 of its last 1:~ games. In their most recent outing. the Spartans drubbed non-league roe Air Force, 10-1 and 11-5,
I· t , k d 
<~S W( e en · 
_ 

The Irish. 11-11 on the year and 9­i in WCHA play (22 points) are coming off a split in an eight-point series at Michigan Tech. losing 8-5 on Friday and coming back with one of their top performanLes of the season on Saturday. winning 6­
1 · "I said we had to come back with a split if we wanted to do more than just make the playoffs." Smith explained. "If we had lost two. 
things wo~ld have been extremely bleak. Winning had to go a long way in helping our guys believe in 
themselves and in each other." 
Winning six of their last seven WCHA games. the Irish have gained confidence from successive '''l'ekends of solid team play and are looking forward to the stiff test of their abilities that the Spartans are sure to provide. 
"This series looms as a big one because State is on top." Smith said. "We played Wisconsin and 
.. th 1 • b t
I)em·er. two ot e eague s es 
· th hI b I
c u s. Par y m e season w en we
weren't going well. I think that if wl' can maintain our present level of play. we can go all the way. State will give us an opportunity to prove that." 
State. surprisingly, has been led this season by an outstanding group of freshmen. First year men Steve Colp. Daryl Rice. Tom Ross, .John Sturges and Brendon Moroney have accounted for 48 of the Spartans' 118 goals thus far, with Colp's 18 markers heading the scoring list. In fact. only senior winger Michel Chaurest has tallied as often as the young Spartan standout. 
"What these freshmen have done is bring some of the best scoring balance in the league to our squad this year." praised Bessone. "These kids have a great attitude and a desire to win. Without a doubt. this is the finest group of freshmen we've ever had." 
The Spartans also have a solid corps of veterans on hand. Junior
d I' b d . . . 
e enseman Bo Boy ts hed wtth 
Chaurest for the team scoring lead and Williams and Mike Dunphy flanking Pat Conroy. 


On defense. Smith pairs senior co-captain Bill Green and another four-year veteran. Mark Stein­born. juniors Steve Curry and Bill Nyrop and Ric Schafer and Les Larson. 
Junior Mark Kronholm. who was brilliant last Saturday at Tech. making 37 saves, and has a 3.83 goals-against average in league play. will probably be in goal both nights for the Irish. 
Penalty killers Pat Novitski and Mike Tardani should see plenty of ice time as Notre Dame--M.S.U. hockey gamesare generally hard­hitting affairs. 
"Notre Dame is always tough," Bessone acknowledged. "We'll need these wins and they know it. They'll really want to get a piece of us." 
The Irish figure that a four-point piece ought to be just about right. 

pauI Regan====================================================================:=:=:=:=:=:=:=::==========================================· ~~~~h _;~nfoo;n~i·n~:rt ~::: ~~~~~ 
who both have 30. 
Defenseman Norm Barnes !21

Captain's Corner 
pts.l. center Tom Ross !20 pts.l, 
and wing Bill Sipola ( 12 goals) also 
add firepower to an M.S.U. attack 

=======:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:::=:=:=:=========================================:=.Qn The Road Back !hat averages s.6 goals per game. 
Ikcembl'r was a month that the Notre. Dame hockey team would just as With punch like that, the soon forget. After losing a pair of hard-fought games against the Spartans are usually able to give l ~nivPrsity of Wisconsin we were forced to give up a home date and move goalie Ron Clark a comfortable to Chicago Stadium for a Friday night match against the University of cushion. But Clark seldom needs Denver. We lost our fourth WCHA game in a row but came back the next much help. boasting a goals-night at the ACC to split the series. against average of 3.00. 
Our trip to New York and Boston did not send us hom-e in a festive Clark doesn't figure to have an mood. Wt• beat a weak St. Lawrence team but dropped the finals of the easy time against the Irish. who El'AC lloliday Tournament to St. Louis. Then Boston College thoroughly have two of the most potent scorers l'mharrassed us by an unbelievable score of 11-4. They skated well in the WCHA in wings Eddie against us hut we had no excuse for getting beaten that badly. Bumbacco and Ian Williams. 
\\'e arrived at South Bend on December 30 and began two--a-day practice sessions. The workouts were brisk and we were really ready for Bumbacco has been producing our first encounter of the New Year. The Czechoslavakian national team points at an almost unbelievable was touring North America during the holiday season and we had the rate this year. banging in 28 goals priviledge of playing them. Although the score was one-sided our game and being credited with 24 assists rt•ally improved. Our passing. which had been very poor on the trip East, for 52 points. He's only four goals was excellent. We played great hockey for two periods, however, in the and eight points shy of setting new third period their experience and superior physical conditioning began to Notre J.?ame r.ec?rds i~ those show. This game was what we needed before entering the second portion categones. Williams IS also of our WCHA schedule. We also worked on our defensive game over the rpsp~cted aroun~ ~h~ league for his Christmas break and it has paid off. We gave up only five goals in two ~conng_ capabthttes. a_nd he's games against Michigan at Ann Arbor and won both. In the second game shown hts talents. by ptckmg up 18 \H' rallied for four toals in the third period to overcome a 3-0 Michigan goals and 20_ assists _th~s far. He lt>ad. That particular game really picked us up. Everyone was glad to be :v~lS ?utst_andmg at Mtchtgan Tech, part of such a victory. We swept last place Colorado College at the ACC scormg five goals. 
.lamwr~· 12 and l3 and really looked forward to playing Michigan Tech at Iloughton. 1\fichigan and Colorado are at the bottom of the league but 'l't·~·h would be a real challenge. We split two games up there and were rl'a lly satisfied with our play. With the exception of a defensive lapse in the Frida~· night game everything went smoothly. 
So here we stand. winning six our of our last seven WCHA games, one point out of fourth place. and ready to play first place Michigan State this \\'l'l'kend. We could easily have folded in December and just written the 'ear off as a total loss. but everyone worked hard and the results are there to prove it. Why have we been able to turn our season around? Two significant areas of improvement have been our penalty-killing and our powt>r play. !\like Tardani and Pat "Moose" Novitski have become real artists at blocking shots on the opposition's power play. Be sure and watch for numbers 22 and 14 this weekend when Michigan State gets a powpr play opportunity. After not scoring in practice last week our power play lwcame very productive at Tech. Led by Ian Williams' great play in llw corner. Eddie Bumbacco. John Noble, Bill Nyrop and Steve Curry have been moving the puck around better. and finding the open man. 
Tht>re is no way we consider this a successful season yet. Since the New Yt•ar \\'e have played the way we expected we would all year. Hopefully \H' cnn continue our comeback. 
JOHN WAYNE JOHN FORD 
Jan. 27, 28 WASH.· Hall adm. $1.00 
CAC '73 patrons free 8-10 pm 35 mm 
THE 

LSEARCHERS 
Seniors John Noble !11-22-33) and co-captain Paul Regan (10-16­
26) and sophomore Ray DeLorenzi ((i-13-19) are other key men in Notre Dame's offense. Noble stands a chance of reaching the prestigious 200-career-point plateau this weekend, entering the series with 196, already an all-time Irish record. 
Smith will use the same lines against State that skated at Tech. that is. Noble centering for 
~ 
~'!/" 
IT'S TIME YOU
HERD 
Big news in big eating. Great steaks and little old prices. Round-up the gang. Herd the family. 
We want EVERYONE to enjoy steak! 
PONDEROSA 
STEAK HOUSE 
52627 U.S. 31 N. 
and Town & Country Shoppi.ng Ctr. · 
~pen 11 A.M. to 9 P.M. Daily. 
a;! Fri. and Sat.lo 10 P.M. ~ 

Buy Direct From 

1723 So. Bend Ave. Phone 272-9800 
*New-Highland Light Scotch· $4.43 a fift 
* 12 Pack Beer Special 
* We Can Get Kegs For You 
* Tappers in Stock 
Case Discounts· Liqo~r & Wine Ask for a -NEW -Free Poster 

RoGERS 
Optical 
I 
·j 
HOUR$, MON . TUES • TKUa -Fll 9 AM 5<30 I'M 
Wm • SAT 9 /4JIA 12 NOON 
COMPLETE 51'BCTAClf 
SERVICE ALL ~ ~ OR.'S 
PII'ESCRirTIONS HONOIEC 
Calf 
289-7809 

Now . • • an inside look at a remarkable basketball dynasty by the man who built it . • . 
JOHN WOODEN 
"Sportsman of the Year" for 1972 -Sports Illustrated 
THEY CALL ME COACH 
as told to Jack l'obin 
"No coach should be trusted with ... working with young men ... unless he Is spiritu­allY" strong. If he does possess this inner strength, it is only because he has faith in God and truly loves his fellow 
man." 
Find out why UCLA coach John Wooden believes that basketball is only the third most important thing in a player's life. Discover what has helped him mold ordinary men into living legends. Lew Alclndor (Kareem Abdul Jab­bar), Gail Goodrich, Walt Hazzard -you'll meet them all and many more as THEY CALL ME COACH traces John Wooden's life from an Indiana dirt court to the pinnacle of H 
the spons world. Illustrated. WORD Boon, publisher 
Get your copy today from: 
HAMMES NOTRE DAME 
BOOKSTORE 

-
--;. 



Friday, January 26, 1973
the observer

12 
Weatherspoon, Illini top Irish 
by Jim Donaldson 

rebounder and (guard Jeff) ThP Irish gradually closed the Sports Editor 
Dawson is a fine ballhandler and gap and. after Novak, Shumate shooter." and Brokaw had led the surge,Notre Dame was spoon-fed a 
Notre Dame regained the lead, 22­
basketball defeat last night in Weatherspoon was clearly the 
21. on two foul shots by Don Silinski 
Chicago Stadium. star for Illinois, sinking 14 of 30 shots from the field and two of two with a little over eight minutes
Jllinois' standout forward Nick 
from the foul !nne. as well as remaining. Notre Dame held thatWeatherspoon shoved 30 points topping the team in rebounds, with advantage for the rest of the halfdown Notre Dame's throat to pace nine. Conner. Dawson. and Tucker hut. after the Irish had built up ahis dub to an 87-84 victory over the \\'ere an able supporting cast. five-point bulge, 42-37, onIrish in a see-saw game that saw howt•ver. Conner dropped in 16 Shumate's layup only 12 secondsthl' lead change hands 15 times. 
points. Dawson, 16, and Tucker, 12. hl'fore halftime, the Illini managed W(•atherspoon accounted for the to chop the lead to one point on a
.John Shumate and Gary Novak
last l<'ad change, popping in a \\ l'a th<'rspoon bucket and a steal
lt>d thP Notre Dame attack,
jumpPr with 4:04 left to play that and subsequent score at the buzzer 
Shumate hitting on nine of 14 field
put th(• Illini on top, 75-74, and the hy Conner.
goal attl•mpts and six of seven freeIrish never caught up again: throws while Novak converted on Illinois quickly assumed the lead 
Illinois opened up an 80-74 ad­11 of 21 shots from the floor and two at tht• outset of the second half on ,·;mtage with :Ul'J to go but Notre of two from the foul line as both haskets by "Spoon" and Conner l>anw ('Ut the lead to 85-82 with 38 scored 24 points. Shumate was also hut Notre DamP gained control ~(·conds IPft fo play and, after Otho lht• top rebounder in the game, again shortly thereafter and, Tuck(·r· missed the first free throw hauling in 14. thanks to hoops by Silinski, in a one-and-one situation 15 Shumate and Novak, led, 60-55,
Dwight Clay and Brokaw were
s(•conds later. the Irish had a after seven and a half minutes.
also in double figures, scoring 14cham·e to stage another of their
• miracl(• I inishes. points apiece, although Brokaw ThP Illini weren't shaken, suffered through his second con­though. and a two-pointer by Jeff 
Tlw bounces just didn't go their secutive poor shooting night, 
Foster with 5: ao to play put them 
\lay. though. Gary Brokaw worked making only six of 21 attempts. 
haek in front. 71-70. The lead 
lrPP 111 tlw lane and tossed up a shot 
houm·ed back and forth in the next
Both clubs were close in thethat appeared to be good, but 
l'OUpiP of minutes before
earlv al'tion. but. with three
houm·pd a couple of times on the 
"Spoon's " critical jumper that
mimites gonP. the Illini tallied nine 
rim and popped out of the hoop. Jllirois a it
gav(' lead never
points in a row to grab a 13-5 lead The "Big Shue" dropped in 24 points and grabbed 14 rebounds last
relinquished.

Illinois gained possession after :lt 14 :2(i. night. but the Irish still lost, 87-84. to Illinois in Chicago Stadium. thl' missed shot---Notre Dame loull'd in an attempt to get the ball hack---and "Spoon" dropped in hotlr frpe throws in a bonus 
UCLA goes after The Record at ND 
situation to insure the Illini's eight vil'tory in 12 games. The loss. game 89-82, and saddled the sw('pt through the first 15 games of longl'r the streak the more they
hy Vic Dorr
Notr·t• Dame's second in a row tJCLAns with their only loss of the th('ir schl'dule with relative ease--want to break it. after five straight wins, left the . Just over two years on 'iO-'il campaign. ttwir tightest game was with "And again." he complained,Irish with a 6-8 record. ago. Th<' defending national cham­Jltinois in the finals of the Sugar "wt• an• in the position of playing
.Januarv 23, 1971, Coach John 
pions--for eight of the past nine Bowl Tournaml'nt <71-64)--and last to kt•ep from losing rather than"W(• had too many mental Wooden brought his undefeated vears--have not lost since they \\'l'('kl'nd .John Wooden's team playing to win."
mistakes and too many turnovers tJCLA Bruins into the Athletic and \n•re upset by NO. and their defeatl'dSanFrancisco <92-64) and That particular problem-­(Ill." Irish coach "Digger" Convocation Center for their overall win string will be much Providence College ( 101-77), a pair "playing to win"--is a difficultyl'lwlps said. "We played well fourteenth game of the 1970-71 longer than IB when the two teams of highly-ranked clubs. rwitlwr .John Wooden nor Digger
d('fensivelv. but didn't create season. 
nwd at :l:30 tomorrow afternoon in "Exeept for the loss of All-l'lwlps should have to contend with (•nough good scoring opportunities Bl'sides their 13-0 mark at that 
at th<' right time." stage of regular season, the Bruins the A.C.C. American Henry Ribby," said tomorrow afternoon. tJCLA. following last night's win
owned an overall winning string of Wooden. "the outlook for the 1972­l'lwlps was quick to credit the 18 games--extending through the ovl'r Loyola of Chicago. is /:l Bmins parallels the outlook t~at Grapp e r s ist 
Illini. commenting, "Illinois has l!liO NCAA championships--and currently 15-0 and have won 60 laced our l!l!i7-68 team." Askmg 1 1 thl'l'<' of the finest players in the were Pyeing their fifth consecutive gaml's in a row since January of any team to match the squad ('ountry. WPatherspoon is a great national crown. But Notre Dame, '71. and have now tied the which ineluded Kareem Jabbar, two matches 
shoott•r. a great athlete. (Center behind a sparkling 46-point per­l'niversity of San Francisco's Lucius Allen. Mike Warren and record for eonsecutive basketball a
Nick l Conner is an excellent formance by Austin Carr. won that L~·nn Shackelford is quite ('oach Terry Mather. looking for vietories. Tomorrow. in front of a n·quest. but this year's Bruin team l'Ontimwd improvempnt from hisst'llout erowd of ll,:l43--as well as a has the roster to do it. 
\ITestlers. will send them into
nationwide TV audience--the Nine lettermen return from last 
adion twiee this wt•ekend in hopes
liCLAns will attempt to surpass ~ ea r·s :l0-0 quintet--including 1971's of attaining the elusive .500 mark.
liSJ<''s record. "l'lav(•r of the Year." 6-11 Bill Tlw Irish meet
(.J-5 l Eastern
The Irish Eye 
The task facing Wooden's \\'alt'on <18.4 ppgl, 6-5 Larry power St. Francis Friday night in
charges won't be an easy one. Farmer ( 14.9). 6-6 Keith Wilkes the A.C.C. Auxiliarv Gym at 7:30Notre Dame. r ':JW 6-8 after last (Hi.O l. and (i-4 Greg Lee ( 4.9l. And and rl'turn Saturday· to meet~==================================A Feast For Sports G Iuttons evening's H7-84 loss to the Illini, Wooden also has some first-rate 1\tidwest rival Marquette at 1:00 was deceptively tough in an early­rookie talent on his bench. 
p.m Admission both days is free.
The eam~us literati have their Literary Festival, music buffs have season loss to UCLA (82-56, at Sophomore Pete Trgovich (6-5 l 1\latlwr has had his problemstlwir blues <fnd jazz festivals, gamblers have Mardi Gras and fun lovers Pauley Pavilion l, and the Irish will has seen spot action this season, this ~·ear keeping a set lineup.
have An Tostal---all noteworthy occasions which are eagerly anticipated have the home-court edge this time and has joined veterans Swen In juri('S and scholastic
hy the devotees of such things. around. Nater ((i-ll l and Larry Hollyfield 
im~ligibilities have eut drastically
But it will take more than a (ti-4 l to give the Bruins quality
This weekend. Notre Dame will be the site of another festival of sorts, into his team. Because of these
home-floor advantage for Digger dl'pth at nearly every position.
although it has never been formerly recognized. What it amounts to is a problems. the team has been
Phelps' crew to fashion a miracle Nor have the Bruins suffered by
sort of sports smorgasbord, cooked up by Notre Dame's athletic foreed to execute in competition
in this game. The Bruins have the addition of freshmen to their
dt'partment. which it's become recent practice to serve up early in the what they should be learning in 
varsity program. There are two
spring semester. practice. Yet. the Irish coach has
Trackmen off first-vear men on the Bruin roster-­set'n improvement. "The boys areAthletic Director "Moose" Krause goes all out to ensure that the very spven-foot Halph Drollinger and 6­
gPtting better and executing
h(•st in athletic fare may be sampled by the sports gourmetson campus. 
to Wisconsin ti Casey Corliss--and Wooden is lwtter. Everyone is 100 per cent
And. if the "jocks" are prone to gluttony, they should be forgiven, for \'l'ry high on both of them. But the improvt'd than at the beginning of sul'h excesses provide distraction from the spectre of the long, dreary Notre Dame's track team will go ,·eteran of twenty-four seasons the yl'ar. I am hoping tor con­
winter hours in the library that lie ahead. after its first win of the season with UCLA is even more en­tirmed improvement this weekend 
Bntfn a Ia UCLA. as prepared by John Wooden, is the main course and Saturday. facing Big Ten power thusiastic about his team as a against both St. Francis and is scheduled to be served to a full banquet hall and a national television Wisconsin and Iowa State of the whole. 1\larquette." audience at 3:30 Saturday afternoon. "Digger" Phelps, in the best Big Eight in Madison. Wise. A pair ·'Our fast break should continue St. Francis . ( 5-l l brings an lradi of Graham Kerr, has been trying to cook up an upset all week or victories would raise the season to be effective." he said. "Walton outstanding team into the A.C.C. to hut · are it will fall flat before leaving the oven. Nevertheless, record to 2-1 and mark the first rl'leases the ball extremely well to mt'('t th<· Irish. Last vear. Notre th1 taste for great basketball won't be disappointed. Watching wins at Notre Dame for coach Don get it going, and we have fine DamP \\'On handily. -36-12, but 
Faley. middle men in Lee and (Tommyl
l' like partaking of a culinary masterpiece. ll('eause of their depleted strength,
A full week of practice should Curtis to advance the ball down this vPar's match should be muchbegins tonight when coach Terry Mather's wrestlers say 
enable the Irish to get ready for court. Like last season. our offense doser. St. Francis has threeSt. Francis at 7:30p.m. in the Auxiliary Gym. Hopefully, an this weekend's triangular. While will feature a combination of high­\\'l'l'stlers with !i-0 records--Markill serve as an appetizer for the delights yet to come. 
only hur:.iler Tom McMannon could low posts that we hope will in­

I'Ptt'rs <118 l. Gary Pirozzola 034)
the menu is Friday night's hockey-game against the WCHA­equal his last year's time (7.2), a corporate the strengths of our and 1\like J<:ckenrode (150). Jaychigan State Spartans. Coach "Lefty" Smith and his icers have number of surprises occurred in high-post of recent years and of our Aumiller< 177) has a tie as the only their last seven Association games and have high hopes of last Friday's 70-61 loss to Ball low-post of a few years back. blemish on his record <5-0-1 l. salad victory over the Spartans. State. Freshman Bob Schott took "Again." he continued, "our Marquette. a team that has first in the 440, second in the 300, principle defense will be man-to­
ahqys been trouble for Notre
refreshment will be available at 12:30 Saturday when the Irish 
and anchored the winning mile man on the strong side and zone on !lame. figures to be just as toughm. 3-2 on the year after a mid-week trouncing of Oakland, en­relay squad. Mike Gahagan, a star the weak side. This enables us to
Marshall in the Rockne Memorial pool. pressure on ball this time around. Last 
performer at Edgewood High in keep the and 
~·ear. they pulled out a 20-18 victoryTh~restlers will bring on the next course, attempting to administer a Madison. copped first place in the provide help if needed. And, of over the Irish. Co-captain Dan pasta,ing to arch-rival Marquette, which narrowly defeated the Irish last 1000 while Mike Housl~v was the course. familiarity with our .Jones. who has recorded 6-0 dual season. The match is slated to begin at 1 o'clock in the Auxiliary Gym. \'ictor in the 880. Highlighting an pressing defense should make it and 11-0 overall records, should impressive performance in the more effective. Now that our 
give the Irish trouble in the 190
The Bruins are to be put on the table at 3:30, but knowledgeable chefs 
field events was a sweep in the shot juniors have had a year of working pound dass. while Tom Newmanarl' almost unanimous in the belief that they will be too tough to be put. with the pressing defense we tri-O l could see action at either 134d(•voured. 
"Wp're a young team," Faley naturally feel it should be better." 142.
or·

-


Dessert will be nothing less than Italian Ice, in the form of Amo commented. and I'm hopeful The problems facing the One bright spot for the Irish this BPssone and Spartan hockey sextet. Notre Dame and Michigan State face that a week of practice will powerful Bruins are few. but John season has been the wrestling of strengthen us for the tough com­Wooden is not complacent about
orr again Saturday at 7:30p.m. l'Onverted heavyweight AI Rocek. 
petition which we will face this the situation confronting his team. 
l{ocek. normally a 190-pounder.
Prepare your plates and palates! For the sports fan with discerning \H'ek{md. I'm confident that we "Wp l'xpect a rough weekend in the 
has won thirteen in a row since his 
last e. this weekend is a once-a-year treat. There's more on the menu than 
can change some of our second and midw<'st." he said. "Naturally, 
opening loss. and has been the
Mama LPone has to offer. As for indigestion, don't worry about it---it's third place finishes into first place t•ach team we meet wants to be the 
tt•a m 's most consistent wrestler
easily avoided by a few Notre Dame victories. So eat hearty! efforts. one to break our streak--and the 
aceording to Mather. 



