-----------------------......­

On The Inside 
Notre Dame Collegiate Jazz Festival. ..pg. 2 
"Auto Mechanics" mini-course. . pg. 3 
Vol. VII No. 98 

Governor John J. Gilligan of Ohio 
John Gilligan to speak here 
by Mike Rizzo Staff Reporter 
. Notre Dame Alumnus Governor John J. Gilligan of Ohio will speak at 8 pm Monday evening, March 26 at Carroll Hall on St. Mary's campus. 
Governor Gilligan, who during his term as a congress~an was called "exciting and among the hardest workmg members of Congress" by the New York Times, is involved with many urban and state concerns today. . . . 
He was president of the Catholic I~terrac1al Coun~Il ~n 1961 a board member of the Cincinnatt1 Central Psych1atnc C'linlc. and is now involved with both the Babies Milk Fund and the Better Housing League. 
Gilligan graduated with a bachelor's degree frofi! Notre Dame in 1943 and served in the Navy where he mented the Silver Star for bravery. He earned a master's degree from the University of Cincinnatti and was an instructor of literature at Xavier University for five years. 
His public career began in 1953 when he won the first of six terms on the Cincinnatti city council. He was elected to Congress in 1964, but in 1968 lost a bid for a United States senate seat. 
After another term on the city council, he won the Ohio gubernatorial race in November of 1970. . . 
Since his election Gilligan has concerned himself with the viability of state government. He was obtained as a speaker by the Student Union Academic Commission. His speech topic has not been released. 

HICCOUP 
by Jim Lindsay Staff Reporter 

Advance selection of major courses, improved departmental counseling, and fewer checkmark courses will hopefully ease the frustrations of preregistering for the Fall 1973 semester, according to Mike Geisinger, committee chairman of H­Man's Investigation Concerning Cruel or llnusual Preregistration <HICCOUPl. 
As plans for advance registration now stand. the usual class-priority procedures will remain in effect, with seniors-to-be registering Thursday, April 26, juniors April 27, and sophomores April 30 through !\lay 3. However. during the three day period prior to the start of preregistration, students will be permitted to secure positions in courses within their own majors. 
Aecording to Geisinger, individual department heads will determine which 
serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Thursday, March 22, 1973 
Sanctions proposed 
by Michael Baum Staff Reporter 

The Graduate Student Union Committee on Sanctions has sent a proposed listing of violations and attendant sanctions applying to advanced students to the Advanced Student Affairs Com­mittee for consideration. 
The sanctions, developed and rewritten over a period of several weeks,_ repre_sent an _attempt to merge University regulatiOns with the WIShes of the GSU. Like the current the ASAC proposed judicial hearing system, the suggested regulations and sanctions grew out of the so-called Lewis Hall incident of December. 
Actions considered to justify expulsion trom the University under the proposed strictures are: theft, arson, assault, battery, rape, burglary, vandalism, and "pushing" hard drugs. The GSU Com_mitte~'s proposed sanctions differ fro_m Umvers1ty regulations as published by the Office of Advanced Studies in that marijuana or hashish and thier use, possession or sale are not considered a~ serious an offense as hard drugs and carry a maximum sanc­tion of a warning or suspension for "subsequent repeated offenses". 
suspension grounds 
The recommended sanctions also stipulate that felony convictions by the State, "resulting from activities outside the University community" can only be considered grounds for suspension or ex­pulsion if the University can demonstrate that the felony constitutes a "direct and imminent threat to the property or physical safety of the University community". 
The proposal also offers sanctions in the event of violation of the University regulations on the use of alcohol, although. as committee member Paul Bolduc observed, "If there is a graduate student in the University under 21, it isn't by much." 
The greatest problem in formulating the list of sanctions arose from a previous committee report, dated <February 16, listing grounds for graduate student expulsion from the University. 
Offering as proposed sanctions a warning, 
suspension, or expulsion from a residence hall for 
first offenses, and suspension or expulsion fm 
repeated offenses, the committee report listed As 
grounds for action, "a finding that the student 't.S a 
danger to the University's intellectual and-or moral 
standards". This, Bolduc said, "was the part that 
most people balked at on the grounds that it was a 
blank check." 

loosely woorded 
Bolduc said that it was felt that the phrase was too loosely worded to protect a student from arbitrary prosecution by the University. 
The current proposal features a substantial reworking of this clause. Actions carrying the 

studies advance 

maximum sanction of expulsion from on-campus housing include: "violations of the code of behavior for hall residency as determined by each resident hall (andl infringement upon or vilation of resident hall community based norms and values." 
The later clause transfers the norm of behavior from University standards to residence hall stan­dards. Accompanying notes add that the "codes of behavior and community based norms" should reflect "commonly accepted standards of Christian ethics", and go on to say, "Those activities_and sanctions noted under this paragraph rest entirely upon the establishment and operation of a vialbe hall judicial structure for the promugation of rules and regulations and thier enforcement." 
The fourth and final clause of the recom­mendations reads: 
"The objectionable actions and applicable sanc­tions set forth herein presuppose the existence of an acceptable graduate school (University) ad­judicatory procedure t5 insure due process and equal protection." 
points emphasized 
These last two paragraphs, Bolduc said, contain 
the points the committee most wants emphasized. 
"We wrote up the sanctions, but we are counting 
on two things," Bolduc said, "one, that a decent 
adjudicatory system is set up and followed. If the 
judicial system is a farce, then the sanctions and 
regulations are useless. Two, the dormitories 
should set up their own rules." 
Bolduc said that graduate student dormitories at the moment have no judicial systems, hall presidents, or councils, consequently, they have no fixed codes of behavior outside of the University regulations. Bolduc noted that he had sent letters out In the rectors of the graduate dorms 10ver the break inquiring as to what judicial systems currently existed or were being proposed, but had received no replies. 
tenant relationship 
"In loco parentis, while still a hot issue for -the 
undergraduates, should be cold, dead for graduate 
students." Bolduc argued, "The dorms have got to 
start taking care of themselves." He added that the 
graduate dorms should exist more in a tenant 
llandlordl relationship with the University then 
undergraduate dorms are allowed to. 
The adjudicatory system refered to is, of course, 
currently being discussed between the ASAC and 
the University administration. 
GSU President Barry Wessels noted that mem­
bers of the committee are willing to go to the in­
dividual graduate halls to 'discuss the report, the 
setting up of hall judicial boards, and to hear 
comments. Present members of the committee, 
which changed slightly between the first and second 
drafts. are Ann Bates, Art Eaves, Patrick Gibbs, 
Bill Lavage, Tom Moorehead, and Paul Bolduc. 
registration 
courses offered by their departments shall sophomores and the practice in several be first reserved for majors. Such cour~es departments of check marking all cow,oes.
will be designated with the letter "M" in the course selection booklets and will be In response to these complamts, available to majors before the start of the University Registrar Richard Sullivan is general preregistration process instructing department heads to carefully 
evaluate their counseling programs and 
Geisinger noted that course selection eheckmark policies. Commenting on the and evaluation books will be published difficulty of making a general decision somewhat earlier this year, ap­affecting the checkmark procedures of all proximately two weeks prior to the start or departments, Sullivan remarked, "we're preregistration, to allow more time for just asking them to be more counseling and careful preparation. discriminatory." 
In a survey taken by HICCOUP, many In an effort to continue HICCOUP'sstudents complained of being closed out of program of presenting student views ortheir own major courses. "Hopefully, the 
preregistration procedures. HICCOUP
addition of this advance course selection ehairman Geisinger announced that awithin the majors will eliminate this t·omplaint booth will once again be foundproblem." Geisinger said. He also ex­Mike Geisinger. chairman of HICCOVP in the administration building duting thepressed hope that with the elimination of Wl'ek of advance registration.
major course worries, there might result a and the overabundance of checkmark more leisurely approach to non-major courses have also been brought to the registration. llniversity Registrar's attention by C'omnwnting on the success of the 
IIIC'COUP. Student surveyed by HICCOUP IIIC'COUP program. Geisinger said. "This Two other common preregistration particularly complained of the Arts and is one instance in which student opinion 
· t·omplaints concerning poor counseling Letters counseling program for really meant something " 

Washington -John A. McCone, the former head of the Central In­telligence Agency who now sits on the board of the International Tl'lephone and Telegraph Corp., repeatedly denied Wednesday that the eompany had anything "surreptitious" in mind when it offered the governnwnt $1 million to help defeat Salvador Allende Gossens as President of Chile. D McCone told a Senate Subcommittee that the money was not offered to create "economic chaos," but to be used "cons! ruct ively." 
Moscow -In a clear effort to win congressional approval of a Soviet-American Trade Pact. Moscow authorities have recently
briefs 
\\'aived the high exit fees for about 60 emigrating Jewish families. Though Soviet sources say the controversial emigration tax has been "suspt>nded indefinitely," the American Embassy said there has been no official confirmation of the report, and the Soviet sources would not say that the fees would not be reimposed. 
! 
Washington -The Supreme Court ruled that states may continue to finance public schools with local property taxes that provide more money for schools in wealthier districts. In reversing a lower court dt•<:ision 1hat had called the unequal financing system un­eonst itut ional. the Court split 5 to 4, with all five republican appointees \'oting with the majority. 
(C) New YorR Times 

Washington -Leonid I. Brezhnev, the Soviet Communist Party leadt>r. is expected in Washington in June for talks with President Nixon. according to administration officials who said the details had not been worked out. 
an campu• taday 
1:00-5:00 pm-adoration of Blessed Sacrament, corby chapel 
6:15 pm-film, wo films abou, p. bruegel's grn esque pain ings, carroll hall 
8:00 pm-lecture, place of 19Jh cen,ury in modern his ory, dr. bernard norling, carroll hall, smc 
B: 00 pm-panel discussion, philosophical per­spec ives on abor ion, nd and smc philosophy depar men s, architecture auditorium 
8:00pm-concert, duo-piano program, dr. david sharpe, anne e conklin, little theatre, smc 
held in mid april 

Collegiate Jazz festival planned 
sponsored by the National En­dowment for the Arts <NEAl in­ducting CJF judges and all stars from college performing bands. 
Ticket prices for Friday, Saturday afternoon, Saturday night and the judges' jam session are $3,$2,$4,$2 respectively. Tickets for the Saturday night show include the midnight jam session. 
An all-sessions pass is available for $6. Tickets are available at the door or at the Student Union Ticket Office andbranches of the American National Bank, South Bend. All events will be held in Stephan Center. For further in­formation. call 283-3797.
University\,  Ohio State,  Indiana  
University  Modern Jazz  Quintet,  
Malcolm  X  College,  Texas  

'T~e ·Observer is publiShed daily during the college semester ncept vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions 1nay be purchased for S8 per scrnl'ster ($14 per year) from The Observer. Box Q, Notre Dame, lnciiana 46SS6. Second class postage paid, Notre Dilme, Ind. 
A6556, 

The Notre Dame Collegiate .Jazz Festival begins this year an annual program of donating a collection of Amt>rican Jazz record albums to the audio center of the Memorial Library. The records will be available for student use in ac­cordance with the usual policies of the audio center. 
Every year after the festival, t•ach festival judge will select five of his favorite jazz albums, and these will be added to the Collegiate .Jazz Festival Collection <•r Amencan Jazz Musir-Notre llame. 
The idea for the collection originated with Mr. James Phillips, assistant band director and CJF faculty advisor. The purpose of the collection is to further familiarity of jazz music among students and to further the traditional educational aspects of the Collegiate Jazz Festival. 
The Judges for this year's festival include Dan Morgenstern, Alvin Batiste, Jimmy Owens, Gil Evans, Hubert Laws and Roy llaynes. The schedule of events is as follows: 
schedule of events 

r 
·; :.ursday, April 12, 7:30P.M. -HPnefit concert co-sponsored by Alpha Kappa Alpha, national Hlack sorority, and CJF starring Cannonball Adderley, Grover Washington Jr., Charles Irwin, The Bill Nix Trio and the CJF judges' combo.. Proceeds from this event go to charities through the local chapter of Alpha Kappa Alpha. 
J:o'riday, Aprill3, 7:30P.M.-The Collegiate Jazz Festival opens with The Notre Dame Combo, University of Michigan, M.I.T., Memphis State, Triton College and others. 
Saturday, April \4, 1:30 P.M. ­Notre Dame Jazz Han, Ohio University, Tennessee State, Texas Southern Combo and others. 
Saturday, April 14, 7:30P.M. -­The Rat Pack <Indiana State 
Southern Jazz Band, High 'School winner and the Awards. 
Saturday, April 14, midnight until the end--A judges' jam session 
cheerleader tryouts rescheduled 
HPcause of the NIT, l'heerleading tryouts, originally scheduled for this weekend, have been postponed, according to t·heerleader Charley Morrison. 
Tryouts are rescheduled for next Saturday afternoon, March 31. For girls, tryouts are from I:00 to 3:00 in Angela Hall at SMC. Guys are asked to report to the Rockne 1\lpmorial from 2:00 to 4:00. 
CA C presents 




Carnal 
Knowledge 
Starring: 

Jack Nicholson, Ann Margaret, Art Garfunkel, Candice Bergen 
Directed by: Mike Nichols 
Engineering Aud. 
8 pm & 10 pm 
March 22 & 23 
0

Admission $1 ° 
09 ,.,,,, t • #' 1 f 1 e
f,' t 

JESUS 
is the best reason for going on a Jesus Retreat. We've experienced Him as a person working in our lives. 
What we have discovered is there is nothing more wonderful than a relationship with Him. 
Friday March 23 8pm to Saturday March 24 8 pm 
Call 282-2508 days 283-6868 evenings 
Sponsored by True House, a Christian Community at Notre Dame. 

AT NOTRE DAME 
Settle down 
to the 
natural one. Busch: 
(Available on tap, too!) 
f ol 11 If Iff I I • I" • • I • · •. • • 

t "• •. "• '• f. ~ # , I I J I " J1 ~ I 4 • ., • "t '" ·•.• 


Thursday, March 22, 1973 
the observer 
3 

'Auto-Mechanics' m 1 n 1-course 
• • Army Navy Discount 
by Bill Sabin Staff Reporter 
l-laving ~l'objems with the ball­
joints "oo. __you~ '65 Chevy? Or 
maybe you are· just interested in 
learning exactly what a ball-joint 
is. Either way, you should be 
allending the "Auto-Mechanics" 
mini-course. which had its first 
st•ssion last night in 127 Nieuwland 
Sl'ience Hall. 
1\Ir. l>ar Johnson. Service 
1\lanager of Romy Hammes 
Fordland. is leaching this mini­
l'OUrse sponsored by the Arts and 
Letters Student Advisory Council. 
In the six-session course, Johnson 
t>xplains the basic parts of a car, 
and how one can provide his own 
maintenance. 
There was an overflow crowd at 
last night's session, and many 
st udenls were forced to sit in the 
aisl<'s . There were not enough 
handouts for the unexpected mass 
of budding mechanics. "I was told 
there would be only be 50 or 60 
people" apologized Johnson. 
The first order of business last night was a movie: "A Car Is Born." winner of the National Industrial Film Award in 1972. The film described the production of a l'ar. step-by-step, from theactual digging of raw mineral ore to the finished product: a 1972 l•'ord. 
.Johnson also talked about car warranties and then gave a detailed description of the various l'Omponents in the front end of an avt>rage car. He explained the­rune! ions of 1ie-rod ends, shock absorbers and ball joints, and how theycan go wrong. 
The second class will be next Wt>dnesday at 6:30 p.m. in the same room. Mr. Johnson will probably pick up where he left off last night on carburation, and hopefully will have more handouts to go around. 
Notre Dame students are reminded that. while no credit is given for these mini-courses, they have no attendance requirements. 
the observer 
Managing Editor: Joe Abell News Editor: Anthony Abowd SMc· Editor: Maria Gallagher Editorial Editor: Butch Ward Features Editor: Beth Hall Sports Editor: Vic Dorr Wire Editor: Tom Drape 
issue staff 
Night Editor. <iC'orge lund Day Editor. Tom Drape Sports Night Editor: Stan Urankar Pictures Jcromr Night Controller Howard Halle Compugraphic Man: Phil Orscheln Typists Steve Ropf-r, John 
Flannigan, n.1rb Nilrcross, Dennis Anastasoft 

APARTMENTS AVAILABLE FOR SEPT 73 
Come see the Notre Dame Ave. Apartments. You are looking for modern living, we have the answer: 
CLOSE TO CAMPUS 
2 LARGE BEDROOMS: ROOM FOR 4, 5 or 6 STUDENTS 
LARGE KITCHEN, DINING ROOM, AND PLENTY OF STORAGE SPACE 
FULLY CARPETED LIVING ROOM WITH A PRIVATE PATIO OR BALCONY PLUS AIR CONDITIONING 
These Apartments are fully furnished and are coeducationa I. 
CALL 234-6647 OFFICE 919 SOUTH BEND AVE., SOUTH BEND 

207 N. Main· South Bend 
Store Hours: Mon & Thurs--9 am to 8pm Tues, Wed, Fri & Sat--9 am to 5:30pm 
Official Combat Boots $13.99 Jungle Boots $15.99 Jeans 
$ 5.99 & $6.99 
Fatigues 
$ 3.99 

Also assorted camping equipment 
IT DOESN 'T HAVE TO BE 
A PROBLEM! 
Mr. Dar Johnson. Service Manager of Romy Hammes For­dland. t<.'aching "auto mechanics" mini-course. 
long Hair can be a problem if it is not shaped
Manasa annual conference 
properly. We will take
to be held in Indianapolis 
the time to help you find 

by Jim Ferry Staff Reporter 

Manasa. the statewide college campus program of the Indiana Mt>nlal Health Association, will holds it annual conference on S<llurday. March 31 and Sunday, April I. in Indianapolis. 
.Joanne Greenberg <Hannah (;reenl. author of I Never Promised You a Rose Garden will speak on the topic of mental lwallh. as will Eric Ward, a Notre DamP graduate student. 
"Ward had a $1,000 grant last sumnwr to study the changes in Swedish mental health hospitals," according to Bruce Hooper, a Manasa member. "His topic will he The Progressive Medicine in Sw<'d<'n." 
The conference is primarily for Manasa members, but Hooper stressed that it is "open to Pvervone.'' 
M<;nasa will pay the registration and hotel fees for any interested mem hers. Transportation arrangements may be worked out, depending on student response. 
The Mental Health Association will pay five cents per mile to 
Looking for a place to get away on Lake Michigan? For rent Lodge and cabins during Apri I and-or May. Only 30 min. from campus: Gintaras resort 15860 Lake Shore Rd. Union Pier Mich. Tel. 616-469-3298 or 312­737-4515 
the style that best
anvone driving a car and ac­coinpanied by at least one other 
fits your need. 
student. Forms for reimbursement will be available at the conference. 
The conference, which will be 
All 
Services By Appointment --Call Now held at the Indiana University-­Purdue University Complex, will l'onsist of discussions, workshops, 
ahe WinJjammer
and several other speakers. i\nv interested students should 
HAll STYLING FOl DISc;lt,IMINATING MEN & BOYS 
eonlact Bruce Hooper at 1558 for more information. 
1637 Lincoln Wav W. Closed Mondays Phone 232-6622 
Piper dances up the wall 
Personality's platform for school belles towers to new heights on an important heel and rings up two tones of soft, flexible leather to complement classic shirtdresses and sweaters. 
PersonalitJ 
Price Ranee $16·$20 

Personality Shoes Are Available at: Shoeland, US 31 No. & US 31 So., South Bend, La Porte and Portage, Ind. Paul's Shoe Store, 116 W. Plymouth, Bremen, Ind. Swearingens Shoe Store, 208 N. Michigan, Plymouth, Ind. 
ASK FOR PIPEk 


4 the observer 
Letters 
Boycott Dow 
l•:ditor: 
There are 165 courageous people at the Dow Chemical plant in Bay ('ily which has been on strike for 14 months. They would like to enlist the aid of your newspaper and rm·mb(•rs of the student body so thai wt• may survive. Dow Clwmical is using its unlimited n•sour-ces in an attempt to destroy us l'conomically and eliminate the collective bargaining process of our Local Union which is 14055 of tlw llnited Steel-workers. 
Many workers and their families haw suffered unlimited hardships in the loss of income and personal propt>rly which they have had to spll in order to feed their families bec·ause Dow Chemical refuses to n•solve an unjust labor dispute provoked by llow Chemical and its local management. 
In the interest of humanity we ask that you print this letter in ~·our college paper and that the student body aid us by refusing to buy Handi-Wrap plastic food wrap and Ziploc bags which are made at. tlw Bay City plant. 
If 1here are individuals or grouvs on campus who would like to aid us in Ihis humane endeavor. piPase contact me at the address whic·h is given below. We request 1ha I Ihey boycott the above nwnl iorwd products which are produced hy Dow Chemical in Bay City and by any other aid or ac­tivities which may aid our cause. 
Please print this letter in your student newspaper and if possible sl'nd ml' a copy. 
Thank you. 
Marlin Schwerin ~01 N. Chilson St. Bay City. Michigan Loc a I \4055 
Student Body -8 
ND leers -7 
l':ditor:

r 
On March 4th I talked to one of 1he members of the Notre Dame hockey team. They had just beaten Minnesota-Duluth and earned the second spot in the WCHA. This guy was overjoyed that lhey would get to play all the playoff games at home in the ACC. Thai meant home ice advantage. 11 meant an overwhelming ad­\'antage over the enemy. Llnfor­IUnately. he soon learned that the IACC does not always hold home ice advantage for the Fighting Irish. 
In the first round of the playfoffs North Dakota was disposed of by a Iota! goals tally of 13-3. The crowd turnout was very poor, but North I lakota was no match for Coach Smith and his team. That first 

Thursday, March 22, 1973 
round victory gave Wisconsin the right to play us in the final round. The Fighting Irish were again going to clash with the Big Red. 
Enthusiasm for the weekend games was unbelievably low among the students. Very few of the people I talked to had plans of staying. After all, how could anyone expect them to stay a couple of extra days when their semester break was starting. I guess my priorities must be mixed up. but I wouldn't have missed I hose games for anything. Guys said lo me. "Yell "XIra loud because I won't be there." Do you know how hard it is to pick up the slack for about a thousand people? 
The record shows that Notre DamP was beaten by Wisconsin in thai series. What the record should show is that the Notre Dame hockey team was beaten by Wisconsin with the aid of the Notre Daml' student body. On that disappointing weekend the hockey learn could easily have considered the student body its biggest enemy. 
The game was indeed played in the ACC here at Notre Dame, but horne ice advantage was not ours. 
I feel very sorry for the guys on the learn. They worked hard all vear and deserved a shot at the National Championship. For most of the guys. however, there is no other chance. John Noble, Paul 
Hegan . Chris Cathcart, Bill {;recn. and Mark Steinborn will never have another chance at that NCAA Iit!e. A disappointment such as occurred on March lOth must leave a bitter taste in one's mouth. Some members of the student body were at those games and shared in the disappointment and the bitterness too. I feel that the NCAA title belongs to this year's team: however, they must wail until :1ext year to prove that fact. I hope that the team has not lost all faith in the students because some of us appreciate their efforts and will always be behind them. 
The hockey team has almost a vear to think about the mistakes ihey made this season. We, the students, also have that same year lo think about how we let them down and decide what we can do about it in the future. 
Sincerely, 
Chuck Allberry "FANATIC" 

LaFortune's Fine 
l'~ditor: 
W<• were in La Fortune Student Center today and began to wonder why the place needed renovation. II seems adequately functional with the setup it has now. Any <•xpensive "improvements" will only waste student's money. 
The idea that renovating the eenter will make it a more en­joyable place to go is nonsense. 
STUDENT TEACHING 
Any student eligible for Student Teaching during the fall semester 1973-7 4 should complete !application in Room 320 Madeleva, St. Maryis 
Application deadline 
Friday March 32rd 
...on plastics, pucks, and payoffs 
The only renovating needed is in the minds of the students who feel a more modern and expensive place will make them happier. 
Louis Hammond John L. Hall 
F(l)unky Cash 

Editor: 
Notre Dame should initiate a policy this year, whereby the graduating senior with the lowest grade point average would receive one dollar at the minimum from each member of his (her) graduating class. This could develop into a worthwhile 1radii ion. especially for the recipient of the proceeds. 
First. it would serve as a fine expression of gratitude to the student who did more overall, than any other. to lower the curve. It would be a particularly appropriate action from those who shared his <her) classes. 
It is highly probable that the individual who could merit such an award refused to allow himself <herself) to be sucked into that rat race for grades which, most admit, does not necessarily relate directly to intellectual achievement. If not, he <she) would still make an ideal representative for those who could claim this distinction. The money could possibly serve as a token gesture of admiration for such hrroic conviction. 
II would surely offer the dude < dudee l some consola lion for the lack of aptitude, which most likely Pxists. or doesn't exist, whichever the case. 
Finally, maintaining the lowest average and still remaining in school. is by no means a simple task. Such a person deserves 
recognil ion  for  this  ac­ 
complishment.  
This policy  is  in effect at the  

Naval Academy, and from what I understand it works very well. At Notre Dame, however, there would be as much as twice the money involved. 
Believe me, I am not advocating the above because of greed. I simply need the money. So how's 'bout somebody gettin' on the stick? 
Signed, 
Larry Semerad (Academia Hall) 

Apolitical Abowd 
Editor: 
You missed the boat in your kurlo's to John Abowd in yester­day's editorial. There ean Qe little question about 
his journalistic talent or the significant impact he had on the Obserl'er during his year as ~ditor­in-ehi<'f. Gone are the days when staff nwetings are called to see if l'nough reporters will show up to justify continuing publication. The papl'r was I urned into a ·sound and l'ffeelive nwdium and John deserves recognition for his contribution. 
Mon• important. however, is that .John was able lo keep from being dominated by his role as editor-in­chid. Two years of entanglement with campus politics have shown nw nrore than my fill of people who could stay above the muck of p<•rsonality assassination. ego <·ompPiilion and submission to polil ieal ganw-playing. Where lhPy faill'd to ke<'p a sense of pl'rspectivp about what they were doing..John suecet'ded-~ and still nwnagl'd lo lw an excrllenl editor­in-chid Thai is what deserves congral ulat ions. 
Paul Dziedzic 


MCAT 
Review and practice testing ~r\n~ ~ Medical College Ad~i~Te~ 
~~ree bro"B~ure, write 
\\ .bUATE STUDIES CENTER 
~division of The Minehart Corporation 
P.O. Box 386 New York, N.Y. 10011 
LAKESIDE THEATRE PRESENTS: 
Warren Beatty Faye Dunaway 
BONNIE AND CLVDE 
Fri & Sat March 22 & 23 8 & 10 pm Holy Cross Hall (NO) 
Nominations for GSU 
President , Vice President and Secretary-Treasurer are now being accepted 
All interested Grads see Barry Wessels 1028 
N.S.H. for more information. Nominations close March 30th 
THURS: 

ALUMNI CLUB 
THE SENIOR BAR 

IS SPONSORING A TRIP TO New York for the CHEERLEADERS All proceeds Thurs., March 22 will go for this trip 
HELP SUPPORT THE CHEERLEADERS TO "BACK" THE IRISH 
Pabst Beer is showing their support by a PBR Promotion 
FROM: 
7:00-8:00 B E E R 1 0 cents 8:00-9:00 BEER 15 cents 9:00-9:30 BE E R -20 cents 
9:30-10:00 PROMOTION 10:00-1:30 BEER -25 cents 
DRINK TILL CLOSING AND SHOW YOUR REAL SUPPORT! 
.. 
··. 

Dennis Daugherty 

campus printout winner named 
Tlw $10 prize ~e Campus Printout contest will g.e.-AWarded to Dianne Smith Davis for ~r photograph of the St. Mary's Cl~lll'ge Library tright>. Davis made good US(' of the Sl}n 's low position in the sky and the depth of field range of her camera to highlight the essence of a library, its books. 
Tlw contl:'st attrracted 11 contestands who submittl:'d a total of 22 photographs . The fivt• photographs printed on this page were eonsidl:'rl:'d the best entries by the judges, OhsC'n'C'r Photo Editor Jim Hunt and for­nwr PXI:'cut ive l:'ditor Don Ruane. Entrees \\TI'l' judged on the basis of originality, l'ontPnt. art. technical quality, and their potential for suitable reporduction on news papPr. 
Photographs submitted with a self ad­dn•ssl:'d. stamped envelope will be returned by mail. Other photographs may be picked up at the Observer office on Friday, or 1\londay through Wednesday next week after 10 a.m. 
Joe Lipka 

William Broderick 
Dianne Smith 

Joe Lipka 


the observer Thursday, March 22, 1973
6 

Ph.ilosophy of Lafortune renovation plans 
by Ted Guth Staff Reporter 
Aftl'r months of working on the idPas. the Lal<'ortune Renovation ('ommittee recently published a summary of the philosophy and plans for the renovation. 
"W(' wrote it out to show the background of the issue. not only to give to tlw Board of Trustees when Wl' ask for money, but also to give ourselves direction, and provide sonwt hing for the students to J'(')ate to." committee chairman Kl'll Knevel commented. 
Knl'vPI also stressed the need for studPnt participation on the proposal. inviting any student with Hll'as or comments to come to the lknovation Committee's office on till' sl'C<md floor of LaFortune. 

Thl' committee's report em­phasizes the need for a student cl'ntl'l' as a focal place for university life. and charges that 
I.a Fortune presently does not meet this twed. 
The report recommended that tlw present center be renovated, ratlwr than a new center built. Such a renovation would be dwaper and quicker, and Lal•'ortune's central location and 

long  tradition  provide  it  with  
1rl'ml'ndous  potential  for  
dPvelopment.  

FivP guidelines were proposed for t lw renovalion of the center. First. the committee stated that 
daanesbury 

tlw center should be made "bright and diverse interests of the and i:olorful" through the use of university community. innovative design, proper colors, All services that have student 
and pffective lighting. life as their primary focus should 
Sl'cond. control of the new center be housed in the new center, in­should be vested in a lriparte eluding, at the outset, "a snack hoard composed of students, har. a sit-down dining area, a facultv. and administrators. J{athskellar pub, and a campus 
On 'the center itself, the com­information and directory ser­mittee insisted that it be "more \'icl'." with other conveniences than a building", with programs hl'ing added as demands 
rlixible to meet the changing needs 
Psychology Department search 
by Tom Bundy 
Staff Reporter 

Professor John Borkowski, temporary chairman of the Psychology Department, reported vl'sterday that his department is iwa r 1he end of its search for a ppr·nwnl'nt chairman. 
The search committee, l'om.posed of members of the Psychology Department and one outside rppresentative, has prl'sented its recommendations to Frederick Crosson, Dean of Arts and LPtters. 
According to Borko.w4>ki, the new chairman will come trom outside Notre I>ame. Members of the dl'pa rt ment consulted with 
psychologists from all over 

t;~arry trudeau 
Hf't WHIIT IJ GReAT pj$y OF 'fi;t£t/IS!ONz't/e H/10 7'0PI1Y/ ''7'HE {).IJnNG 6/IME" W/15 
~ SVPERB, ''E06E 0~ IV/6/Ir''[
: /AJIIS MOII!NtS, 11NO MIKe d [)0(}6t-115 IV/IS /IT HIS 
~ VERY BeST! 

IJNO 01'1 rll6 /lie~ EVEN HOW/JRP K. of1Vf3' .A 600P sEveN 
COHHeN7'11R'I. . .Z: O'Cvoek; W/15 Of3'/..IGH1"60!. OeRR(__ 
SAy, .'<AR/11, ~HRT I L"
1/11f3' IS 11; HONeY? 
I 
the 

Attention Entertainment: 
Featuring: 

Paul Butterfield Better Days 
with Paul Butterfield on Harmonica and Piano 
Goeff Muldaur on Vocals Amos Garrett on Guitar Bill Rich on Bass Ronnie Barron on Keyboard Chris Parker on Drums 
Special Guest Star: 

Weather Report 
with Wayne Shorter on Sax Joe Zawinul on Piano 
Miro Vitous on Bass Alphonse Mouzon on Drums Airto Moreira on Percussion 
IN CONCERT at Morris Civic Auditorium Sunday March 25 1973 Time: 7: 30; door opens at 6: 3C 
1 , k< 1~ ss 00 Aclvance and $5.50 at the Door day of show. All seats n•scrv•·rl 
1 , k<·l'> ,,, ,watlable at Morris Civic Auditorium box office between II 00 cl rn. ilnd 5:00p.m. daily. <·roll<ll>l to you by 1\!om•c Productions and Universal W£'~SPI 
warranted. 
Finally, the renovated LaFor­tunl' must meet the student's social nel'd, especially in the light of coeducation. To do this, the l'ommittee suggested the provision of arl'as for libbies, small lounges, 
informal  meeting  areas,  an  nul­ 
door  "playground,"  and  billiard  
and ping-pong areas.  


l'ountry to insure a large number l'ommittl'e. which then chose a of qualified applicants. Forty­group of first choices. Members of Pight people were seriously con­this group were given interviews sidl'red. after which four received com­mittel' recommendation. The final The applicants were screened at dt'rision rests ~ilh Dean Crosson, 
nH'l't ings held by the search who was unavarlable for comment. .llJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIDIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIRIIIIIIIIIUlllllllllllll!J). 
Wm111mumum n m 1111111111111111n111111111nmmm11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111u111m~ 
=1  Pops Concert  ~1  
I§ ~  O'Laughlin Auditorium March 23rd at 8:15pm  I ~ ~  
~  Admission free  ~  




Yesterday's nuns led a cloistered 
life. When they ventured out, it 
was two-by-two. Their roles were 
traditional and within church in­
stitutions. 
Things have changed. The world. 
The Church. The roles women 
play. 
Yet for one order, these changes are hardly apparent. Ever since the Dominican Sisters of the Sick Poor were founded in 1876, they have been engaged in pastoral ministry. They have always been flexible, Always self-motivated. Always had freedom. Why? By the very nature of their work. 
TheDominican Sisters oftheSick. Poor give free nursing care to the needy in their own homes. They travel alone by bus or bysubway. Or by car. Or on foot. And their day doesn't end at five o'clock. 
Each case presents a different problem; whether it is bringing physical or spiritual comfort. keeping a family together, coun­seling or bridging the gap be­tween social agencies, we bring the love and devotion of Christ. We are in direct contact with the people we care for. 
You see, we don't have to be lib­
erated. We are. 
For more information on the 
Dominican Sisters of tbe Sick 
Poor wrife to: 
Sister Marguerite Mitchell, 
Vocation Director 
Room 106 
Mariandale, Ossining, 
New York 10562 
DCrtiNICAN SDIERS Of THE SICK POOR.I 
'·. }
....... ..,/
~;;/ 

he Observer has paid positions open in its business departmen 
Assistant Business Manager 
-
-should be a business maior with accounting experience will move to business manager's post 
ssistant Advertising Manager 
must be able to work from 10:00 to 5:00 daily 
(Mon. • Fri.) Applications and resumes should be submitted to Jerry Lutkus Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 or brou ht to The Observer office b Fri. Mar. 30. 
Thursday, March 22, 1973 the observer 
7 

Computerized exam schedule 
by Terry Keeney Staff Reporter 

The Office of Registrar has computerized the final exam schedule for the first time. The .new schedule, released the week before Spring Break, will be adopted this semester to insure a conflict-free schedule for studeflts. 
tinder the old system pxaminations were scheduled according to class days and times, with the exception of departmental t•xams. This system permitted student conflicts between departmental and class exams. 
Mark Carmichael, Assistant Hegistrar. explained that the computer would eliminate such conflicts. 
"The computer takes everyone's dass cards and determines what kind of a linep-up there will be without student conflicts," he said. 
Because the system is new, Carmichale. observed there are still problems to be worked out, and students may be required to make certain adjustments. Because the computer determines dates and times of final exams on a random basis, it is likely that more Pxams will be given on the last day of finals than under the present system. Previously the Registrar had scheduled few exams for the last day of finals . 

The computer could conceivably schedule a student for three or four exams in a single day. Carmichael emphasized that in such cases adjustments could be made for the individual student. In addition, exams will be scheduled on the Saturday of finals week. 
Although the new scheduling 
procedure would eliminate student 
conflicts, teachers could possibly 
be assigned to more than one class 
at a time. 
Rick Sullivan, University 
Hegistrar, views the new exam 
procedure as a "test-run" for next 
fall semester when the final exam 
period will be shortened from the 
current six days to five. 
"We are preparing ourselves for 
the abbreviated exam schedule 
next fall. With the Provost urging 
the faculty to give more finals and 
the exam week being shortened, the computer alvne can guarantee a conflict-free system," Sullivan remarked. 
Sullivan pointed out that the new computerized procedure may not be used every semester. He doubted that computerized scheduling would be necessary during the spring semester because scheduling is more flexible in the spring. Sullivan anticipated that the new exam schedule would prove useful for future fall semesters. 
Although the old system is more economical. Sullivan stressed that e fonflict-free system as was the 
Although the old system is more economical. Sullivan stressed that a conflict-free system was the "lulimate schedule". 
Thus far both Sullivan and Carmichael have expressed their pleasure with the operation of the new exam schedule. According to Carmichael, because of the computerized schedulin, "it is very possible to go down to a five-day exam period next year with no difficulty." 
Norling speaks in Carroll tonight 
Dr. Bernard Norling, Assistant C'hariman of the History Depart­ment. University of Notre Dame, will speak on "The Place of the Nineteenth Century in Modern History" at 8:00 p.m., tonight in Carroll Hall. SMC. 
"What I propose to do," explains Norling, "is consider whether the Nneteenth Century, an unusually peaceful and 'progressive' age, was a harbingedr of the future or merely an exceptionally happy interlude in the general course of Western history." 
According to Norling, the world 
slipped back into more familiar 
patterns. such as absolutism in 
governmoot, following the end of 
the Nineteenth Century. 
"However-Norling states,' 
"the rise ot ''l<Kious forms of 
totalitarianism anti1W.Jch else that 
has developed in the Twentieth 
Century raises the Cfllestion of 
whether the Nineteenth Century 
might have been itself a rare 
'Golden Age' destined to be as 
unlike succeeding centuries as it 
was unlike its predecessors." 
Dr. Norlin holds both an M.A. 

and a Ph.D. in History from the the Thomas Madden Award for University of Notre Dame. He has Best Teacher of Freshmen at published two books, Towards a Notre Dame, and has been a Better Understanding of History member of the American and Timeless Problems in History, Historical Association, Catholic plus several articles and reviews. Historical Association, and Mid­Dr. Norling was the recipient of W<'St Council on British Studie~. 
Science Foundation grants 
The Natior.ai Science Foun­dation <NSFl has announced an award of $331,500 to the University of Notre Dame to support students ~: udying for doctoral degrees iR 
~ciC'nce.  mathematics  all'd  
engineering  during  the 19~-74  
academic year.  

This grant represents the final group of NSF graduate traineeships. whi<;Kwere dropped in President Nixon's proposed budget. 
This represents .. the continuing downward trend of dwindling public support for higher <'ducation. based on the misper­ception that we are producing too many doctoral students in all disciplines. This may be true of some disciplines but to generalize beyond these few is to jeopardize the future of the nation." said Dr. Hobert Gordon, vice-president for <dvanced studies. 
Nationally, the final grant will provide $4.8 million to support 911 doctoral level students at 172 in­stitutions in all the states and the Pistrict of Columbia. The awards provide stipends of $2,250 for students during the 1973-74 academic year. 
Notre Dame's award will go 
towards continuing support for 13 
current graduate students. The 
grant does not provide for any new 
traineeships. 
SIMERI'S 
410 N. Hill Street 
PITCHER OF OLD MILWAUKEE $1.00 
with this coupon 
10% DISCOUNT ON ALL PURCHASES: FOOD, DRINKS, CARRYOUTS, OVER $5.00 
Try our real Italian sandwiches and spaghetti 
ATTENTION! ! 
All organizations wishing to 
apply for funds from Mardi Gras Charity Chest should submit formal written request by 
Fri., March 30th. 
Requests should be directed to the attention of 
Joe Prochaska 
and left with the Student Union Secretary. 
Thank you. 

ADS 
WANTED 

Need ride for 2 to Bloomington, Ill. March 23. Call Jim 3274. 
Dl'sperately  need  ride  to  
Cleveland  this  weekend.  Call  
Pete 8810.  

Ride needed for friend from Cleveland to NO this weekend or sooner. Call John 8810. 
Wonted qood floor seats for Ekach Boys. Call Chuck 8540. 
Will do typing; themes, 11\onuscripts, etc. Call: 233-6909. 
Need ride to Dayton Ohio -Friday J 23 share expenses. Call Bill 1244. 
Two need ride to New York City !his weekend, call Dave 3679 or Rich 7801. 
Nt•cd ride to Peoria, Bloomington {15U) nrca Friday March 23. Call Jiill ,,t 1165. 
FOR SALE 

SONY TC 352 D reel-to reel tape cleck, 311ead, excellent condition. 
595. Call Steve, 8407. 
5600 stereo for sale, receiver, turntable, speakers 9 months old, S~OO or best offer. Call 1188. 
'63 Dodqe Dart. qood condition, ,·uns well. Call 234 7792. 
For Sole Acoustic 134 Amp. C1sino Concert P .A. system Best offer, after 7 234 4547. 
for Sale: 1970 Dodge Super Bee 383 Exit. cond. Must sell $1500 or Ill'S! offer. Call Steve at 2187. 
For Sale: Wurlitzer Spinet Piano French Provincial. Cherry Wood. Call 272·3233. 
1965 Triumph TR4 37,000 ZiPb«rted, very sharp, 272 6638. 
67 MG f«mily sedan for sale 32 111iles per qallon, seats 5 people, S275 or best offer 283 7128. 
lkll ond Howell Aito Reverse car ',,sselte player still in box, call 
1165. 
1971 350 Honda SL 5600 miles 
• ustom paint J«ck 8550. 
NOTICES 

THIS SUNDAY'S PAUL BUT· TERFIELD BETTER DAYS CONCERT AT MORRIS CIVIC: TICKETS FOR SALE-ROWS 5-8 
RIGHT CENTER OF STAGE, MAIN FLOOR. FOR TICKETS OR INFORMATION, CALL 8253. 
There will be a GSU meeting this Friday 12 noon in 127 NSH. Please make arrangements so that atleast one GSU Rep. from every Dppt. ilftends this meeting. 
FOR ltiFORMATION ABOUT GAY AWARENESS COM MUNITY, CALL 7789W Th F, 810 
pnl. 
Modern rooms and cottages. Milny trees and flowers. Michigan Lake, private beach, fishinq and swimming boats. LENGVIN, Guest House Motel. 
M.P. Lenqvinas,owner. Phones·. .1rea 616, 469·0513, Union Pier Lakeside Union Pier, Michigan. STUDENTS WELCOME!! 
Nominations for GSU President. Vice President and Secretary Treasurer are now being ac 
• t'pled. All interested Grads see Anrry Wessels 102B N.S.H. for more information. Nominations · close March 30th. 
SPECIAL NOTICE 

THE GRADUATE SCHOOL OF PUALIC HEALTH OF HAR VARD UNIVERSITY announces ,, rlt'W qraduate degree program to prepare college qraduates for rart'ers as health planners, ,1natysts or managers. The 'urriculurn is designed to develop new kinds of health professionals 
"''"' sophistication in medicine ,1ncl IH'allh and with the 11t.lno<rerial and analytic skills nt•t'd<'d in policy m«king and in ''""r.1t inq health aqencies in 
11\)Vf'rnnlent and the private 
,,,cfor. Faculty members of the J,,,,n F. Kt'nnedy School of c.,,vernmenf and of the Harvard c.r.lcluall' School of Business 1\dm,nislr«tio,, will also take part 
•n 
till' •nstrut•ion. Applicants "'"st havr' clem·.nst ated strenqth 

•n 
tht' hiotoqical ;ciences and 


•n,lfht>nhlflcS. V"',.it£ for brochure 
.md ,1ppl ic at ion tor m to The ~.:,.,, istrar. Hanarc School of Public Ht'«llh, 55~" !luck Street, ,,,,~ton. Massachusetts 02115 . 
.. 
• 

• f •• 

Thursday, March ~2, 1973
the observer
8 

Hurricane wrecks Irish spring trip 
State) had the benefit of an early spring and outdoor practices­Notre Dame used Cartier Field for three days before the trip, and spent the remainder of the semester training inside the Convo ... 
Item: Fourteen men were named to the All Tournament team and half of them were from un­beaten Tulsa--the Irish lost eight games but still placed five all­stars... 
Item: Only 19 players went on the trip, eight of them pitchers--by the closing day, leading hitter Dick Nussbaum, catcher Bob Roemer, and cleanup man Ed Lange were all watching from the sidelines while coach Kline was forced to the bullpen for substitutes ... 
Obviously the Irish were dealt very few aces, yet they managed to stay close in eight of the ten con­tests. Says Captain Roemer, "We were playing in a rough league and injuries killed us. We've got two weeks before our home opener with Hillsdale <April 3rd doubleheader) , and that's plenty of time for everyone to be ready.'' 
"We got a lot of experience in Tulsa, and it brought our team together," the Dolton, Ill. senior adds. "We made the NCAAs in '70 after we were 1-11, and we'll come back and do it this year." 
The Oklahoma journal reads like this: 
ND 12, Oral Roberts 3 

The Irish came out like gangbusters, rapping lefty Jack Cheney (8-1, 1.26 ERA last year) for seven runs and eleven hits in 
McGuire speaks at b-ba/1 dinner 
• 

prize without a comment.
Sailors third 1n N.Y. 
"Dwight," he said, "we have the 

Kings Point, and other schools films of that game, and I've got to 
such as Harvard, Princeton and tell you. You had your eyes closed 
Cornell. during that shot (a base-line 
jumper in the last four seconds 
Marek, who was recently elected 
which beat the Warriors, 71-69.)"
Race Chairman for the 42 school 
The Irish cagers will remain in 

Midwest Collegiate Sailing 
South Bend until Friday, when 
Association, announced that this 
they are scheduled to return to 
weekend the sailing team, which 
New York. ND, once back in New 
was the number two team in the 
York, faces a Saturday contest 
Midwest last fall, has a regatta this 
against North Carolina's Tarheels 
weekend in Detroit, and next week 
in the semifinals of the National 
at Purdue and St. Petersburg. 
Invitational Tournament. 
DeCicco honored 
less than four innings. Roemer led 
the onslaught with the first home 
run of his varsity career, a three­
run shot to right that sent Cheney 
to the showers. 
Lange powered a line drive 

homer to dead center and knocked 
in three runs, Mark Schmitz had a 
pair of RBI singles, Ken Schuster 
doubled home two runs, and 
Pete Schmidt and Tom Hansen 
each collected three hits to pace 
ND on offense. 
Senior Mike Riddelll limited the 

Titans to just five hits in a dazzling 
performance. The Highland, Ca. 
ace struck out five and issued only 
two walks. 
Tulsa 7, ND 1 
Denny StanfQrd 's three-run 

homer turned a close ball game 
into a Hurricane win. Forget that 
round tripper, and Rick Eich 
would have been in a 1-1 sixth 
inning duel with TU star Tom 
Widmar. 
An error and back-to-back 

singles by .Nussbaum .and Hansen 
got the only Irish score off Wid­
mar. who won his 13th straight 
over two seasons. 
Tulsa 16, ND 4 

It was one of those days when Kline's Korps would have been perfect for an Alka-Seltzer ad. The Hurricane could do no wrong, chipping pop fly hits between Irish defenders and turning harmless grounders into unearned runs. In fact, frosh hurler Mitch Stoltz went four and one third innings, allowed 11 TU scores, yet left the game with a 0.00 ERA! 
Nussbaum's single, an error, and Lange's sacrifice fly got a run in the first, then the Irish added three more in the fourth via an RBI safety by Nussbaum and Hansen's two-run triple. 
Oral Roberts 7, ND 6 

Two errors and four RBis by Titan shortstop Tommy Thompson gave ORU a 7-0 edge after an in­ning and a half, but Notre Dame bounced back with five second session runs on assorted hits by Lange, Roemer, Bob Stratta, and Howard Wood. 
The Irish cut the deficit to one on Pete Schmidt's sixth inning single, but couldn't notch that lucky seventh score, stranding men at third three times in the last five frames. 
Tulsa 8, ND 6 

Richard Rogers' two-run homer coupled with Irish errors for a 4-0 Hurricane lead after three. Again Notre Dame rallied, though, as Roemer and Jim Smith delivered run-scoring singles in the fourth. 
Back-to-back triples by Schmitz and Roemer chased starter Jerry Simmons in the fifth, and soph Tom Miller followed with an infield hit that put ND ahead, 6-4. Yet, Tulsa wouldn't crack as All­American Jerry Tabb doubled home one run and outfielder Mark Reinke tripled for two more an inning later. 
ND 2, New Mexico State 0 
Mitch Stoltz fired a four-hit 

whitewash in his first starting 
performance while receiving 
errorless defense. The freshman 
fanned seven and allowed only one 
Aggie base runner as far as third 
base in seven innings. 
Converted basketballer Hansen 

got the big hit. Smith's single and 
a hit batsman put two runners on in 
the third. Howard Wood moved 
them up on a bunt, and the "T­
Hird" followed with a line shot 
safety to right that won it. 
Tulsa 4, ND 0 

Hurricane righty Mardie Cornejo bested Riddell in a Friday afternoon pitcher's duel. Cornejo held the Irish to just two hits, consecutive singles by Riddell and Smith in the sixth, and whiffed five for his first victory. 
Arkansas 6. ND 5 

Greg Snowden's fourth hit of the game, an eighth inning, two-out double, ended an extra session battle between southpaws Eich and Larry Paulsen; but the play that saved the Razorbacks came an inning earlier. 
The Irish led, 5-4, with two out and runners at second and third. Jim Smith ripped a Paulsen of­fering that had RBI written all over it, but shortstop Bruce Mitchell leaped high to rob Smith and kill the rally. Let that ball go through, and Arkansas would have needed three do-or-die ·runs to tie it, instead of the one they got. 
Notre Dame had leads of 1-o, 3-2, and 5-4. but the Hogs hung tough and tied it everytime. Eich doubled home the first run in the second, singles by Schuster, Miller. and Schmidt got two more in the fifth and Wood delivered a bases-loaded safety good for two sixth frame scores. 
New Mexico State 4, ND I 

Errors again foiled the Irish, with junior Kevin Fanning wat­ching a pair of miscues turn into State's winning runs. Fanning whiffed seven and scattered six hits. but Aggie ace Dan Hardin did better. letting just one ND runner get to third, while striking out eight. 
Tulsa 14, ND 1 

Rick Ritschel four-hit Kline's Korps as the Hurricane finished with a clean sweep of the Irish. Mark Schmitz' sacrifice fly nicked Hitshel for his first earned run in twelve innings. 
Consolation came with the an­nouncement of the all-tournament team. Riddell, Roemer, and third baseman Hansen led the balloting at their positions, and Nussbaum and Lange were named to the squad as utility men. 

Box Office Open 
at gate 1 0 of ACC 9-5 
• 
i l 

by Stan Urankar 
Notre Dame battled bad wPather, four stiff opponents, and a rash of crippling injuries during spring vacation in the Hurricane Ht>view at Tulsa's LaFortune Park. Despite returning home with a 2-B record, coach Jake Kline'sJrish nevertheless showed an (•xcellent attack at the plate and can definitely be considered as NCAA tournament contenders. St the facts: 

Item: Host team Tulsa won all ten of their games and have finished first in the Missouri Valley Conference for the last four years­Notre Dame came closer to beating them than any other squad in the Review ... 
rte m: The Irish rout ell Oral Hoberts, 12-3, in the tournament opener--the Titans graduated only two players from a 33-18 club of a year ago ... 
rtem: Four Review teams <TU, ORU, Arkansas, and New Mexico 

Notre Dame's basketball team held its annual awards banquet last night, and Irish coach Digger Phelps, while echoing the theme of team unity, made presentations to Pvery member of his starting lineup. 
Phelps did not name a Most ValuablePiayer\for the 1972-73 season--"It's been a learn thing," he said, "the team gets the Most Valuable Player Award this vear"--but he did hand out five plaques in recognition of individual ('(fort. 

Sophomores Peter Crotty and Dwight Clay were named as the season's Most Improved Players, Junior Gary Novak was honored as the year's best defensive player, and sophs John Shumate and Gary Brokaw received awards for shooting proficiency. 
Brokaw earned the Father Tom Brennan\Free Throw Award, and Shumate, \who did not miss from the field in Tuesday's win over Louisville, and who, this season, shattered Austin Carr's field goal percentage mark, was named as 
The Notre Dame sailing team journeyed to New York last weekend to sail in the Admiral Moore Intersectional Regatta at New York Maritime. Facing some stiff competition from the East Coast, Notre Dame came on strong against the 12 school fleet which included tflree schools ranked in national coHegiate sailing's top 10. 
The regatta got off to a slow start Saturday morning because of fog and inc.reasing wind. Will J>oneland skippered for Notre I>ame in the A division, with Rob Gaw crewing for him. The first race was a gear-buster, and S('Veral boats experienced break­downs or ~psized into the frigid water of lthe East River, at the mouth oi:'~e Long Island Sound. 
Hacinineam captain Bruce 1\larek 'ffien teamed with Jon 1\lakielski. in competition with some oft~ .''sailing powers" of the Coast. T~t performance in the race. w~· featured 30-35 mph winds aA .· igh waves, put Notre I>ame in· ·7'3rd place behind top­ranked :tq', Y. Maritime and Stpvens institute. 
"A" division went out for the rwxt race, but was soon called in due togale force winds. For the safety of the participants, and to prevent excessive damage to 1\laritime's fleet of lnterclub dinghies. racing was postponed until Sunday morning. Sunday's wt>ather was worse than Satur­day's. with 50 mph winds causing the n•gatta to be cancelled. This was a disappointmPnt to the Notre llame sai)f)rs. who had hoped to improve their placement behind i\laritime and Stevens. and ahead of -tth ranked Navy. 7th ranked the best field goal percentage shooter. 

Marquette's head basketball coach. AI McGuire, was the guest speaker at the banquet, and he concluded the evening's ceremonies by making a presentation of his own. 
To the Irish cagers, and to guard Dwight Clay in specific, McGuire brought the game ball from Notre Dame's January upset of the previously unbeaten Warriors. Hut McGuire, whose team was beaten by Indiana in last week's NCAA action, did not surrenter the 
Notre Dame Fencing Coach 
Michael DeCicco has been selected 
for induction to the Helms Hall of 
I<'allie for his outstanding con­
tributions to his sport. 
"q'his comes as a pleasant 
surprise," DeCicco admits. "It's 
an honor I've always dreamed 
about but thought I'd have to be at 
I he end of my career to receive." 
DeCicco will serve as manager for the United States represen­tative to the World Universtity Games in Moscow this summer as he did in 1970. Last spring he coached the U.S. fencing team in the Junior World Games and was responsible for that event being held for the first time ever in the Western Hemisphere in 1971 at Notre Dame. 
The 1973 season was the 12th for DeCicco as head coach for the Irish. He has a 198-30 won-lost mark. During his career he has developed seven All-Americans and produced winining teams 11 of 12 years--the only losing campaign was his first in 1962. The American F<'ncing Coaches Association namPd him Coach oof the Year in 1966. He is past president of the 
National Fencing Coaches 
Association and is a committee 
member forthe reorganization of 
the Olympics. 
A native of Newark, N.J., 

DeCicco was an excellent fencer 
for the Irish in his undergraduate 
davs. Between 1945 and 1949 he 
posted 63 wins and 20 losses, 
placing him 18th on the list of ali­
time Irish fencers. His foil records 
of 45 wins in 49 bouts for a .918 
winning percentage rank him 
number one among all Irish fen­
cers in this wpon. 
He returned to Notre Dame in 1954 to take a position as assistant coach under Walter Langford. Langford. who molded highly successful Irish fencing teams year in and year out. vacated his coaching position in order to train Peace Corps volunteers. 
In addition to his coaching duties. DeCicco is a Professor of 1\lechanical Engineering in the College of Engineering and a counselor in the Freshman Year of Studies Program. 






