'The Time Is Here!' 
--W. Townsend 

On The Instde 
Irnpeachment Views . . .• page 3 
WaL o. •m~rnall foot ball 
... page 9 



Vel. vnL No._ serving the notre dome -st. mary's community Friday .::c•o!h-~.-Fn 
----~~~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Patrol Middle East 


U.N. to mobilize special forces 
by Bruce W. Munn 

UNITED NATIONS (UPD--The Security Council voted 14-Q Thur­sday to send a U.N. emergency force of thousands of men to the Middle East after the Soviet delegation bowed to U.S. pressure to exclude any Big Five troops from the force. 
The five permanent members of the Council are the United States, Soviet Union, China, France and Britain. All are nuclear powers and their exclusion represented a victory for U.S. diplomacy over Egypt's demand that Moscow and Washington send troops. 
The United States rejected the Egyptian request immediately when it was made Wednesday, but Soviet Ambassador Yakov A. Malik said the Egyptian request was "just and fair." 
The Soviet side took a positive view toward this demand, Malik said Thursday. "But taking into account the position of the non­aligned powers and Egypt, our delegation will not insist on par­ticipation." 
The peace-keeping resolution was offered originally by eight non­aligned powers and was to have been discussed at 10:30 a.m. EDT. However, the vote was delayed until afternoon while the United States won approval of its amendment excluding the Big Five. 
The United States intense diplomatic activity followed reports that Moscow was considered sending its forces into the area on its own. Whether the change of position of the Soviet U.N. delegation represented a change in Soviet policy remained to be seen. 
touch off confrontation 

Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger warned the Russians in a Washington news conference Thursday that its sending troops to <he Middle East could touch off a confrontation that would threaten all mankind. Kissinger said the United States would agree to a U.N. emergency force only "provided that there are no participants from the permanent members of the Security Council." 
China did not participate in the vote. Ambassador Huang Hua said dispatch of a U.N. force would turn the Arab countries into occupied lands but that he would not veto the resolution. 
The American move successfully blocking entry of Soviet forces into the Mideast under the U.N. flag was not fully supported by Britain and France although they voted for it. 
French Ambassador Louis de Guiringaud insisted on a separate vote on the provision excluding the Big Five powers, and he abstained on the vote. British Ambassador Sir Donald Maitland, as did his French colleague, expressed the view that troops of no power should be automatically excluded from the projected U.N. emergency force. 
The measure passing Thursday in effect recreates the 5,000 man 
U.N. Emergency Force that patrolled the uneasy Mideast Peace for 10 years prior to the 1967 Six Day War. That force was stationed in Egypt because Israel refused to have it on its soil. It was withdrawn by Secretary General Thant at demand of then Egyptian President Gama Abdel Nasser just before the Six Day War started. It was understood the new force, expected to run into thousands of men, would be under sole control of the Security Council and removable only at its discretion. 
Kissinger who met with Nixon and the National Security Council until late Wednesday night, said Arab-Israeli negotiations for a peace settlement could begin "in a matter of a few weeks" if Soviet­American diplomatic initiatives in the United Nations are successful. 
chances for peace promising 

The chances for a Middle East peace "are quite promising," he said, and "it is an opportunity that the great powers have no right to permit to miss." He urged the Russians to continue to cooperate through action in the United Nations. 
As of Thursday morning, Kissinger said, "we are not·talking of a missile crisis situation ...we are talking of a situation in which only 72 hours ago we were introducing joint resolutions." 
"We do not consider ourselves in confrontration with the Soviet Union," he said, but " ... cooperative action precludes unilateral ac­tion." 
Kissinger said the United States would be willing to provide "some personnel" to a U.N. team of truce observers in the war zone, whose duty would be to report cease-fire violations to the U.N. Security Council and to "aid the parties in taking care of humanitarian con­cerns." 
But he firmly rejected any idea of U.S. or Soviet participation in a peace-keeping force, which presumably would intervene in the event renewed fighting erupted. 

... 
I 
j j 
l 
j 
1 

souvenir issue 
of volume two, number three 
ca I weekend, 1973 


the observer Friday, October 26, 1~ 
warld 
briefs' 

WASHINGTON (UPI)-President Nixon postponed a Watergate report to the nation Thursday for the second consecutive day because of what the White House desc!ribed as his almost total absorption with the Middle East. 
WASHINGTON (U'PD-Many members ot' Congress put im­peachment talk aside and rallied to President Nixon's support Thursday, but some others w1ere suspicious_ that the worldwide alert of 
u.s. forces wa~calculated to divert· attenbonfrom Watergate. 
WASHINGTON (UPI)-Sec!retary of State Henry A. Kissinger said, "It is a symptom of what is happening to our country that it could even be suggested" the U.S. military alert was a tactic to divert attention from President Nixon's domestic problesm. 
WASHINTON <UPI)--Food retailers and processors last month passed on to consumers on $2·~ of a potential $95 drop in the annual rate cost of a typical food market basket, an Agriculture Department report showed Thursday. 

Flanner-Grace ]banner is largest sign· on campus 
by Joseph LaFiare Staff Reporter 

Since the beginning of the school year, Don Rosemeyer of Grace Hall has been planning for the upcoming Southern Cal game. 
He and his friends in Section 3D decided to put together what has to be the largest banner on campus. It is strung between Grace Hall and Flanner Hall and is approximately 60 feet overhead. 
The section had a contest to come up with the best slogan and the winner was, "Scratch the Seven Year Itch, Beat Soutern Cal." 
It was not an easy ac­complishement, since a lot of "trouble-shooting" was involved. However, everyone was cooperative, Rosemeyer said. The 
Rosemeyer and friends display the sign to hang between the laundry donated the sheets, the towers. (Staff photo by Ed Brower). mai~tenence department helped
• put It up, and both rectors ap­1 50 •1 -proved the project. Furthermore,
student S -ml e run -the maintenance department will 
• be putting spotlights on it tonight. 
"To string a banner from Grace to the Library is my next am­bition!", said Rosemeyer. He
to back United Wa:y 
would like to thank all involved, 
by John DeCoursey Staff Reporter 

I 
Bob Jungworth, a Junior in Lyons, will run 50 miles on Sunday October 25 to raise money for the United Fund. 
However, the United Fund did not solely inspire Jungworth to attempt this run. According to 

Jungworth, "Running 50 miles has 
• been one of my great ambitions exceeded only by running 100 miles 
in 24 hours." 
"Running 50 miles non-stop started out only a challenge. Then I decided that I should try to raise money while running," Jungworth said. 
Jungworth hopes to raise $100, but up to now, little money has been pledged due to lack of 

I 
' 
publicity.

r 
The run will begin Sunday at 7 

a.m. from the arch of Lyons Hall. ! The route leads to Route 2 which I Jungworth will follow all the way 
to Valparaiso University, exactly

r 
50 miles from Lyons.

i 
~ Running 50 miles non-stop would 
be an impossible task for almost anyone, but Jungworth has ex­perience in running long distances. He has run in four marathons, which are always 26 miles long, and has completed each one. The 

~ 
marathon runs were: the Paavo Nurmi Marathon, twice, the
Freedom Day Marathon, and the Boston Marathon. His average time was about three and'dne-half' 

especially Carolyn, Mary Lou, and Margie, the three girls who sewed the sheets together. 
Erratum 

Joe Logisz (1721) heads the Arnold Air Society not Bill O'Brien as was reported in yesterday's Action Express. 
·an campus taday 
10: 10--library talk, by dorothy cOil  
3:00  pm--seminar,  electran  transport,  conference  room,  
radiation bldg.  
7:00  pm--travelogue,"africa-south  of  the  zam­ 
besi,"o'laughlin aud.  

8:00 pm--free concert, rick roberts, little theater, moreau hall B+ 10 pm--genesis film,canned goods, eng aud. 
9:00 pm--art opening, danny chambliss, isis gallery, old fieldhouse 
9:00pm--homecoming dance, featuring windhammer, Stepan center. 
9: 30 pm--smc coffeehouse, cider and donuts, lower level cafeteria. saturday, october 26 
11:00 am--information sessions, "notre dame today", library aud. 
12:50 pm--football, notre dame avenges southern cal, stadium B+ 10 pm--film, lola, engineering aud. sunday, october 27 8:15pm--meeting, cila, fr. hesburgh speaking, grace hall pit. B+ 10 pm--film, lola, eng. aud. 
notre dame concerts 
student union 
present 
A&M recording artist 
RICK ROBERTS 

(formerly of The Flying Burrito Brothers) 
in a free concert 
Tonight at 8:00 
in the Little Theatre of St. Mary's College 

notre dame concerts -student union present 
DAVID CROSBY and GRAHAM NASH 
(of Crosby, Stills, Nash, and Young) 


Saturday, Nov. 10 at 8:00 

Tickets: $5.50, 4.50, 3.00 Tickets on sale now attheACC Ticket Office (9:00-5:00) and the Student umon Ticket Office (1:00-5: 00) +PAUL SIMON tickets are also on sale.+ 

TICKET EXCHANCE PROGRAM 
NO-NAVY GAME NOV. 3 
Turn in tickets Tues., Wed., or Thurs. Second Floor Ticket Window ACC from 9am · 4pm 
Jungworth prepares for his 
DRIVERS NEEDED · Short meeting for all who can drive
big run Sunday by working 01ut daily. (Staff Photo by E:d Brower). 
Monday 7:OOpm Second Floor Lafortune. 
hours. To get in shape for the trek Sunday, Bob has run 5 to 10 miles 
MONITORS NEEDED Short meeting Tues 7·OOpm
everyday, for the last three weeks. 
· • • • Anyone wishing to donate Ito or 
Second Fl.oor Lafortune for all who are w··ll·•ng to
work for the United Fund should call Jungworth or Bill Sullivan at 
· -· · · · · · • · · · ' · · ' ' · · · · 7852., anytime. '' '' ':·_ 
super.vlse. childr. en at the... g,_me. ,' ··.· ... ' . ' .. ':' 
'I 
1~: ''.:'CIIi,..l{... .:!/11 lt•.JJ~t~,o.• 

. ~ 
.: j '' ... ' ' ' • • ; ... ; -~.~7.--,..,:-+:+~"'--<~-.......!!'------'-----'------'-----__:_-_____....:,_:_=._..:..c______;____.:~..:.__;_J__:_~:____.J 
Professors criticize firing of Cox 

by Terry Keeney Staff Reporter 

President Nixon's firing of Watergate Special Prosecutor Archibald Cox last Saturday has drawn severe criticism from numerous ·university professors despite the President's decision to release the Watergate tapes on Tuesday. Included in the criticism were calls for the House of Representatives to pursue im­peachment proceedings. 
"My immediate reaction to the events of the week-end was to write my Congressman telling him to impeach Nixon," said Robert Kerby, assistant professor of history. "The release of the tapes has not substantially chaged my opinion." · 
Government Professor Perri Arnold was less emphatic about impeachment. "We should all be troubled by an administration, by the political turmoil it has caused itself," he explained. "The costs are not only domestic but in­ternational. We have three more years of this. I'm not at all sure that impeachment isn't 
(THE OBSERVER) 
ND views impeachment 
Friday, October 26, 1973 Page 3 

Who do I contact for further information about the Navy Ticket Exchange Program for the South Bend area kids? 
You can either get in tough with Art Wesselman at 233-1745 or Fr. Dave Schlaver of the Student Affairs Office 
What's the name of SMC's Dean of Students? 
Kathleen E. Mulaney holds the position of Dean of Students over at St. Mary's and her office phone is 4319. 
How can you get to the South Bend airport from Notre Dame by bus? 
You can simply take the Notre Dame bus to Jefferson Blvd. in Downtown South Bend and then walk north to Washington. There, you can catch the Lincolnway-Ardmore bus to the Airport. 
Students to distribute impeachment petitions 
by Zenon Bidzinski Watergate tapes issue and the Staff Reporter Middle East situation, but was extremely upset over his recent 
Student Government is currently military alert. drafting petitions calling for the "I don't think the man is men-immediate impeachment of tally balanced," she claimed. President Nixon. Dennis Etienne, Referring to the apparently Student Body President, hopes the unexplained and unnecessary petitions will be ready for military alert, she added, "There distribution some time Friday is the possibility that it's a ploy by afternoon. Nixon to draw attention away from 
Etienne announced that Student the Watergate tapes, which, if Government was reacting to a true, is an irresponsible action and Thursday afternoon request by a deriliction of duty." Jean FitzSimon, a first year law FitzSimon thinks the situation is student. He said that he agrees worse than !llost people realize. with her plea for action and added Commenting on recent trip to that her urging hastened Student Washington D.C., she said friends Government's immediate action in of hers who have served in the this matter. Diplomatic Corps for 25 years are 
FitzSimon, an RAin Walsh Hall, quitting because they are afraid of said she was concerneq•, ·,w,ith• , . • • . • ' ... ' ' •• '·. . • i \ l ~' •• 
' ..

Nixon' ,s handling of both • 'the -' •· • (c&ntirtued M '])age 11>_ 
preferable." 

John Roos of the government department foresees no im· peachment so long as no further evidence implicates the president. 
"It's a dynamic situation, "Roos observed." If nothing else hap­pens, the chances are very, very small, almost infinitesimal, that there will be a successful im­peachment." 
Arnold expressed similar sen­timents. He warned that although the House will most likely not impeach the President after the release of the tapes, future discoveries about the alleged dirty deal, the Vesco case Qr the ITT scandal may force the issue. 
"The House won't go the im­peachment route now," he said. "Just because the tape issue has been resolved, doesn't mean im­peachment disappears." 
Grounds for Impeachment 
The professors disagreed on what grounds the president can be impeached. The Constitution specifies that the president can be impeached for treason, bribery, and other high crimes and misdemeanors. 
Charles Rice, Notre Dame law professor, sees no Presidential action that can be categorized as impeachable. 
"I don't think it's impeachable conduct merely to dismiss his subordinates. I don't think they can impeach him simply because he produced a compromise on the tape situation," noted Rice. "Of course the point is moot because he has turned over the tapes." _ 
Arnold observed that the 
president was under the threat of 
impeachment before he released 
the tapes because he had been 
under court order to turn the tapes 
over to Chief U.S. District Court 
Judge John Sirica. 

"Nixon's position on Satur­
daywas utterly in disregard of a 
court order. He had hanging over 
him a contempt citation which is a 
crime that could have led to his 
impeachment," Arnold said. 
Arnold believes that although 
impeachment grounds seem to 
have dissipated, political con­
siderations may prove sufficient 
grounds. 

"We aren't sure what the Con­
stitution means by 'high crimes 
and misdeameanors." Im­
peachment is interwined with 
political considerations. It is 
essentially a political judgment by 
Congress," Arnold argued. 
Dean Thomas Shaffer of the Law 
School, was uncertain about the 
constitutional bias for im­
peachment. "It's a hard question 
to answer", he said. "The House 
must decide what the Constitution 
means." 

New Special Prosecutor 
Shaffer believes that the Watergate investigation must be conducted by a lawyer outside the executive branch. He predicted that either Judge Sirica or the 
Congress would appoint a new 
special prosecutor. 

Roos cited the necessity of public 
confidence in the investigation as 
justification for continuing the 
office of special prosecutor. 
Rice favored the idea of a new 
prosecutor, but was skeptical 
about how he could be appointed by 
the Congress or the courts. 
Ford Nomination 
The professors agreed that the 
nomination of Gerald Ford as vice­
president would remain . ~~hurt. 
"I think the Democratic ·leadership is sensitive to being 

Kerby: "My immediate reaction ... was to write my Congressman telling him to impeach Nixon." 

Dr. Shaffer: "The president has demonstrated a deep disrespect for law and the country responded well." 
charged with holding Ford's nomination hostage," said Roos. He observed that if Nixon were impeached now, Speaker of the House Carl Albert, a Democrat , would be president. 
Kerby emphasized the need to improve the method of selecting vice-presidenL "I think the Congress is going to be very hedgy about the nomination. It's a weak nominee. If anything it's made crystal clear is that we need a new way to choose vice-president." 
If the professors agreed on one thing it was the gravity of the situation. Kerby remarked, "We are at a point right now where we shall either affirm that sovereignty belongs to the people and no individual is above it, or we shall be faced with a despotism. 
Shaffer expressed confidence in the American people and their ability to govern themsleves. 
"The president has demon­strated a rather deep disrespect for law and the country has responded well. Americans are willing to act when integrity government is ·threatened and .J 
'• I 

'I ' I think'this.isj>rov'en'oy'the events of last weekend." 
the observer Friday, October 26, 1973
4 

Computers phase out STAR TREK 
by Art Ferranti Starfleet has withdrawn to its base Enterprise in the computer ter­for repairs and regrouping. The minals throughout the campus
Executive Editor 

computing center hopes you have when one has asked for the STAR "Due to an inordinate number of enjoyed this game." So reads the TREK program. Starships lost in recent months, computer about the mission of the Mr. Brian Walsh, the director of 

The Enterprise's five year mission is temporarily interrupted at N.D. 
'Socially-oriented'idea rejected 
by Tony Proscio Staff Reporter 
Administrators and hall rectors have reacted negatively to the Hall Presidents Council's proposal of "socially-oriented" student discipline. Commenting yesterday on the HPC's suggestion of volunteer social activity as a form of correction, several faculty members said they disapprove of linking social involvement with punishment. 
"There's a problem with mandatory volunteer work," said Vice President for Student Affairs Dr. Phillip Faccenda. "The problem is that people who do things because they have to don't always do as good a job as those who would normally be volun­teering. That's a serious objection, but it's not' insurmountable." 
Faccenda added that the "volunteer" plan, proposed to Dean of Students John Macheca at last Tuesday's HPC meeting, is not necessarily more effective than the dean's original proposal. Macheca had suggested revocation of such student privileges as ad­mission to athletic events. 
"I don't see any reason why you can't have both policies, depending on the situation, " Faccenda continued. "Dean Macheca is open to any kind of suggestions that the student body or student leadership thinks will work." 
won't work 
Fr. David Schlaver, rector of Dillon Hall and Student Services director, which includes volunteer programs, says the plan probably won't work. 
"I don't think volunteer work can ever be done under any sort of pressure," he explained. "It has to be a free action. The idea of ex­panding (discipline) alternatives is good. But when it comes to using service as a substitute for punish· ment, then I have to rebel at that thought. 
The danger, he noted, is that the HPC program could become an unfair general policy, doing as 

.. much harm to the community as to 1 individuals. ''The-HPC can debate it-that's fine," he continued. "But whether it can be used as policy is questionable. Using volunteer work as punishment will not work. On the other hand, exposing it as an option ... to expand people's horizons is a good thing." 
other jobs 

Sorin Rector Fr. Richard Zane favors "work that a student can do with or without good will, requisite talents, or interest." 
"My experience in volunteer work is that whether you do any good at all depends on how willingly you are there," he said. "It's hard for me to pi!Cture somebody who is there against his will doing a good job. 
Mr. Macheca has mentioned, I think, the possibility of using students for Project ID, where students' goods are being marked -for security reasons," he noted. "That, to me, is a more promising kind of penalty." 
"Worth trying" 

Fr. Thomas McNally, rector of Grace, says the plan is "well worth exploring." 
"It will have to be implemented on the individual level," he commented, "but it is definitely worth trying. This is an entirely different idea from revoking 
. 


McNally SchlavE~r 
Charter Group Flight to Orient call Toll free 
(800) 227-1969 (U.S. 
except California) between llam and 2pm 
(800) 982-5827 
(California only) 

If you plan a trip to Japan, Hong Kong & Orient, make sure ­give us a call -a big savings. 
privileges. It involves working on behalf of others. There might be problems, but that doesn't rule out the idea." 
A committee of hall presidents is planning to meet with Macheca to discuss the proposal. A date for the meeting has not been set. 
the computing center, said that the program has been temporarily cancelled due to the number of complaints from faculty members and students who, when they wished to use the terminals in the business building, O'Shaugnessy, the Library, or the computing center for classes or business, found the terminals filled with people playing STAR TREK. 
"As many as 60-70 percent of the terminals would be programmed into STAR TREK," said Walsh. "It was probably the most used program at Notre Dame," he stated. The program was not destroyed. It will be made available as soon as possible for limited periods of time." Walsh speculated that the program would be continued at the beginning of next semester until it begins to hinder classes and faculty again. 
Walsh said that one H. Campbell developed the game from the University of Wisconsin computing center. "It probably took him a few months to do it," said Walsh. Campbell programmed STAR TREK as an aid to learning programming so that he is now retained as a counsellor to students using the new 1107 computer. Walsh said that Campbell had been originally assigned to 1107 maintenence but that crew has been phased out (no pun intended.) 
The program followed the basic plot line of the television show. The operatorcommandedthe U .S.S. Enterprise in combat with a Klingon warship. One had to allocate energy and figure battle tactics. The computer calculated the tactics of the Klingon. 
For the record, the game could end four ways. The Enterprise could surrender, be destroyed, chase the Klingon into the neutral zone, or destroy the Klingon. The Ships Manual states that "the object is to destroy the Klingon. Not to follow Federation morals." 
• 
A Degree Program Qualifying Graduates Far Calif. Bar Exam 

• 
5 Min. From Downtown Los Angeles In A Suburban Community 

• 
Enrollment Now Being Accepted For March Term 

• 
Inquiries Are Invited By The Dean Of Admissions: 


GLENDALE COLLEGE OF LAW 220 NO. GLENDALE AVE GLENDALE,CA.91206 (213) 247-0770 

NOW AVAILABLE AT THE NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
ONE FOR THE GIPPER· 
by Patrick Chellard 
Warm, nostalgic, and rich in necdote, One for the Gipper will elight old admirers of Knute Rockne s well as George Gipp and enthrall hose to whom this colorful, bygone ra is relatively unknown territory. 
.••$7.95 
ALSO AVAILABLE 
PARSEGHIAN AND . NIOTRE DAME FOOTBALL 
by Ara Parseghian and Tom Pagna ... $9.95 
2nd Floor 
NOTRE DAME REMINISCENCES OF AN ERA 

by Richard Sullivan 
Friday, October 26, 1973 the observer 1.? 
Dr. Moser encourages women in labor force 

Stanford Fellowship 
Phelps receives award 
teams," said Phelps in explaining  opportunity to get acquainted with  
by Pattie Cooney Staff Reporter  his philosophy. Fifty-one students tried out for  people they don't normally have access to. The project was designed for the benefit of the hall  
Digger Phelps,  Notre  Dame's  the basketball team.  Among them  residents," commented Lee.  

were four girls. "I thought these 

a crowd of approximately 120 girls did a great job and think there students in the Stanford-Keenan should be a girls team," Phelps chapel, Wednesday at 9:30 p.m. 
varsity basketball coach, spoke to 
commented. Mter speaking to the students, Later during a question andPhelps received the Stanford Hall answer session, Phelps was askedFellowship Award. 
for his impressions of ND. "I think 

Phelps emphasized the that we have a very healthy academic reputation of the student body here. There is university with reference to respect for athletes, yet it is in its recruiting. "Academically we can place. The student body has real compete with anyone," asserted class," Phelps noted. Phelps, "Furthermore, no one 
Another person asked Phelpswants to go to a school where they what defensive strategy would bewon't learn anything." 

used against Bill Walton during the Phelps felt that it is important 

UCLA game. "You may not have ' for athletes to stay in school heard, but Walton was stung by a despite offers from the bee this summer, and it almost professional leagues. Phelps used killed him. Ifall the students come Austin Carr as an example of with bees that should take care of someone who could have quit him," quipped Phelps. school, but stayed to get his. 
Phelps was presented thedegree. "We encourage students Stanford Hall Fellowship Awardto get the most out of their .by Soo Myung Lee, chairman of theeducation here. If you fall by the event. Phelps was also given thewayside, you have no one to blame Stanford Hall T-shift.

but yourself. Students have to face "The philosophy behind havingthe challenge of finding out for the award was to bring outsidethemselves what's going on in the interests into the hall," explained outside world," Phelps said. 
Hall President~ Jim Hoolihan. 
In referring to athletes, Phelps The award resulted {rom a 

went on to say, "Just don't think fourth floor section project. "We 
that you're going to be a superjock were assigned to Jlelect a ·hall· 
the rest of your life." He used fellow. The idea was to. increase · 
these statistics to drive home his outside interest · an.10ng the 
point: last year out of 9,000 players residents and to give :them the 
available for the basketball draft, 
INTERNATIONAL CAREER? 

A representative 
will be on the campus 
Monday, October 29, 1973 
to discuss qualifications for 
advanced study at 
THUNDERBIRD GRADUATE SCHOOL and job opportunities in the field of 
INTERNATIONAl. MANAGEMENT 
lnte:rviews· may be schedul.ed at 
J'>·La.cem~nt Bur.eau 
THUNDERBIRD .. 
. · G.fi.ADUATE SCHOOL . OF·. . . 
INTERNA710NAL. 'MANAGEMENT 
. .. . .. Glendale', Atizon": 85~06 
: ··.· 
--;-•. 
. . 
(continued from page 6) 
earning." Moser indicated the key factor in this widening gap is the occupations in which women are employed. "We· have no sub­stantiating evidence that women are moving into previously male occupations." Moser suggested the concentration of women moving into "women's occupations" is increasing. 
Moser cited the increase in clerical earnings and the increase in women's applications to clerical positions as an example which contributes to wider earnings gaps. 
Moser mentioned important institutional changes she feels will affect women's labor force par­ticipation. She pointed to in­creased day care portions , in­creased divorce rates and a trend toward women as family heads as influencing labor force par­ticipation. 
Moser also said. "We don't know what effects certain. attitudes of women toward child-rearing will have on women's labor force ac­tivities." 
Moser cited attitudinal changes 
toward types of jobs women "should be in" and educational system tendencies to direct women to certain fields. "These trends must be reversed," stated Moser. "Women have to know what the probabilities of their getting employment are." 
Moser sugg~sted legal en­forcement of anti-discrimination lavot laws may affect labor force participation by women. She cited the 1963 Equal Act, the Title Seven of the 1964 Civil Rights Act and executive orders which govern contract compliance. "The law provides that employers cannot discriminate; the must show affirmative action in recruitment ofwomen and other minorities for positions they have not previously held." 
Addressing a question on women in organized labor, Moser stated, "The degreee of unionization is a function of the nature of the work .. Women tend to be in jobs that do not lend themselves to unionization." Moser noted, however, "W do know some of the fastest growing unions in the United States are those who have heavy female representation." 
Moser is a former faculty member of the business and 

only 30 signed with the pros. "A player should be ready to do something with his life and that's why a degree is important." Philps maintained. 
In connection with recruiting Phelps said, "I won't waste time chasing after someone who won't be considered academically by the university." 
Phelps spent time discussing the basketball team. 
"Our biggest problem this y~a~ is our schedule." explained Phelps. The Big Ten poses a problem because among the road games are Northwestern, Ken­tucky, and Ohio State. Last year the team won only one Big Ten game away from home. 
"I would rather play good teams 

than have a 28-Q record against bad 

·BA.RNABY'S can nQw serve -­y~ur fo"orite .beer ·on '· Sund~y's ~1~ p.m. 
must be21 .. 
•• Cl 

economics division at Indiana University at South Bend. She currently teaches a course a Michigan State University on "women as workers." 
She is the author of "The Changing Role of Women in the Labor Force,"and co-author of "Combatting Discrimination in Employment," as well as several' other articles dealing with labor. Moser had taught at Rutgers University, New Brunswick, New Jersey, and at the University of Wisconsin, Madison. Currently serving as director of the Rural Manpower Policy Research Consortium, Dr. Moser is a member of the selest committees on the status of women of the American Economic Association anf the American Association of University Professors. 
"Women in the Economy" was the sixth in a series of eight dialogues entitled "A Woman's Place Is .. " SMC and the Indiana Committee for the Humanities sponsor the series. The dialogues are designed to aid local women's organizations in discussing women's roles. 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
NOTICES 
Found hub cap at library cirlcl 
on Wed. Please calim at 

Morrissey Loan Fund can loan 
Ombudsman office in Lalor up to $150 at 1per cent interest, 
tune. 1 day waiting period. Basement of LaFortune. 11:15­
WANTED12:155 Mon.·Fri. 

Need 2 Navy tix-call 3451.

Will do typing : Term Papers, 
Manuscripts, etc. Call 233-6909. 
need Navy tix judy 4970. 

Language ·Majors: Intensive Need 2·4 GA Navy tix badly.
language traingin in Hausa, lfyoure short on cash I'm your
Swahili, Amharic, Wolof, 
friend. Call 232-2773.

Fon, Baribal). Thai. FREE. 
See the Peace Corps reps in the Need 2 Navy tlx north end zone.
library lobby Oct. 29 ·Nov. 2. 
Call Jeff 1137. 

Gain considerable carreer 
Need 4 GA Navy tix. Call Sueexperience through VISTA or 6793Peace Corps programs offer 

college grads many op­
Need 4 GA Navy tix. Will payportunities. Experience em. 

Call Joe 3274.

ployers demand. Getting a 
business , law , math , science, Need weveral stud + GA USC
economics, ar'chitecture, or 
tix . Call Sean 23j.4818.

liberal arts degree? Peace 
Corps Vista reps in the library Need 2 or more GA USC tix.
lobby Oct .29·Nov.2' 
C.all Nick 7920. · Upset with the employment 
Need 2 Navy tix, GA or stud.

situation, yet still interested in Will pay.4552.
teaching? ·If you have a degree 
in PE, business ed., math, Scalpers .me again. USC tix.
science, home ec., Fench, 
GA or stud. Sharon 287.4003

Spanish, or English, contact please.
Peace Corps-VISTA reps in the 
library lobby Oct. 29-Nov.2. 
Desperately need 8 Stud. USC 
tix. Will meet inflationary

If you frew up on a farm, know demands. Call Pat 288·5563.
how to drive a tractor repair 
equi.pen1,. plant corn, raise 
lfS GANavy tix. (maybe 1livestock? others need to 

stud. ) Money no object . Callkmow what you know. See the Susan 5154.

Peace Corps rep in the library 
lobby Oct 29·NOV 2. 
N-eed 4 GA USC tix. Call Bill Sewing, mending, altering. 
7926. Reasonable rates . Call Beht 
Need 2 or 4 adjacent Car.

1298. 
penters tix. Call Brian 6726. 

Logan volunteers: Saturday 
rec this week 9-11:30. Pumpkin 
Need 2 USC tix. Will pay. top carving day. everyone come 
Money. Call 8728. please. 
Need 2 sec B or C Carpenters tix + Paul Simon. Call 1487pandora's "the little bookstore wiiJ pay$$,.

that could, " announces new 
hours, now open from 9am to 7 Need 1 USC ticket. Please call pm everyday of the week, still 
Patti 6923.

with those 11eap big discounts 
on new used + new used Need 2 USC tix desperately.
booksalso are prints, rollin CaII Joe 3462. 
papers, underground comix 
and newspepers. 
Need 2 GA USC tix.call collect 312·642·5514 after 7:30 p'11.

Music from America: Friday 
10.12 featuring "Blue 
Need GA U.SC tix. $30·40. Call 

MJudas"; Satvrday. W.C. 
Chick 232·8594 or 6392. 

Fields festival . 4flix at 10 +12. 
Free admission. 
Riders needed to NDUYC orr · Conn. Leaving Sunday mor­

LOUISIANA PEOPLEand 
ning: Call Dave 3546. 

those from nearby: Meeting ··and social ,gathering Sunday 
FOR SLAE . night, 28 oct. 73, commencing · at ·7: 30 at 730 Corby Blvd. 

MEERSCHAUM PI PES! 

PLEASE COME. . 
Except iona I values, per. sonalized service. Cata log. PMP Co. Box 444 Gaithersburg 

. · The council of Elro~. .•neets to Md. 20760. 
deci.de the fate of the Ring of 
Power 
Yamaha guitar FG·300 · (original retail price $300)

PERSONALS rosewood, inlaid pearl ad· justable bridge, hardshell case 
Hey Stretch , its time for you to excellent Call David 8427. 
get better. Guild Bass guitar. good cond. 
SCHMUCK· happappy Bir­
dual (fender + guild) pickup,

thday from Sorin Hall . hard must
semi sheell case, 

sell, call Jim 1409. Schmuck· Happy 21st birthday ·Marikaye. 
USC student ticket hightest Happy 18th Val + Carol. Love, bidder. Ann, Donna, Marita, linda. 
2 GA USC tix. Best offer. Paul Holy Cross hog wishes URI CO· or Terry. 1521. ed a happy birthday with much love. 2 USC tix for se. call 3451. 
Happy Birthday Dream. Love, 
Chris, De~, Amy. 
Need a Homecoming Dance LOST AND FOUND Ticket? Please buy m ine··S4.00. Call Maria 4027. Lost glasses in tan case. Reward. Help. Bob 3579. 
the observer Friday, October 26, 1973 

•
Old Notre Dame WlnS over all 
by Mike Creaney Here's where the game was born!" Well, for once, we gain a bit of make some of our won. "Shake piece of heart they've thrown into 
Special to The Observer 

Football is an old-fashioned game. Sure, the defenses are immensely more complicated with seams, red-dogs, inverts, double free, rotations, fire games, and bump and run, but after wading through all the rhetoric and jargon, it's really not so thick; the defensive team that swarms and gang-tackles and reacts to the ball will win. 
The offense, not to be left behind, has its traps, finnesses, crack­backs, Z-stops, quick openers, post patterns, and innumerable audibles, but in the end there is no confusion; if you score more points than your opponent, you win. Unlike many of the issues facing the personal and national con­sciousness today, there exists very little gray area in football; you either win or you lose. If that were only the con1plete truth! 
Alex Agase of Purdue and Denny Stolz of MSU both said, "we won out there today." Well, if they did, then the scoreboard lied, but what is there in the mystique of Notre Dame that does that to people? Why do football coaches get off the plane in South Bend sniff the air and say, "Smell it? It's in the air. Here's where they play football! 
They fear the traditional ex­cellence of Notre Dame, her 
traditional victories, her leader­
ship-her football teams, and escaping with anything less than a 
good, old-fashioned ass whompin'
is a victory in itself. But baby, don't you believe it for a second. 
A sloppy game can always be improved, mistakes can be corrected, but try to correct that mark under the "L" column. You can have all the moral victories you want and go sit on them, J'll take the game ball anyday. But sometimes even losing while ac­tually winning isn't the only problem. 
I often wonder what type of tragic flaw in the Notre Dame character is exposed by the fact that we are noted less for out 79 wins and 15 losses under Ara, and more for our 4 ties. What ab• 
normal sceptre haunts a man who has a winning percentage of .830 and can't outlive the four times Notre Dame "kissed your sister?". 
I won't belabor the point that USC represents two of those ties and 4 of those losses over the last six years, nor the fact that theirs is the only team that holds and edge on us since the era of Ara began. 
leverage on the situation. No 
longer are we duty bound to win "by enough"; no longer does the 
opponent risk losing nothing and gaining all; this is USC. They 
come here 5th ranked nationally,
and, almost naturally, under-dogs. 
I believe in it; we're a better team, prepared emotionally high,with a sure ana quiet confidence. And now only remains the op­portunity to demonstrate exactlythat. 
They've got to take on the 22 men on the field and the uneasiness in their own minds, the adverse conditions of playing on the road, and the horrifying propisition of doing it at ND in front of some sort of semi-organized mob hysteria clamoring for revenge. They think they're taking on "Old Notre Dame", so let's not disappoint them--let's BE Old Notre Dame. 

Every player knows the · responsibility he inherits when he agrees to play for ND, a heavy, not 
·always likeable burden ad­mittedly, but freely accepted none the less. Cherish the moments you represent Our Lady; they are numbered and unrecapturable. Every fan knows the history and nostalgia he or she is thrown into at Notre Dame; well, it's time to 
Greg Collins: cleari11Lg the zone 


For a slow guy who would rather finesse than hit and who likes to play hockey as much as football, Notre Dame linebacker Greg Collins still manages to be a pretty hard-hitting dedicated football player. 
When Collins, a junior from Troy, Mich., came to Notre Dame, he thought he'd try hockey as well as football. 
"I really liked hockey as much as football," he admits, "but when I joined the junior varsity hockey team, the season was half over and I was way behind everybody. And football is an every day, every minute occupation," Collins 
·ontinues. "During the season, y>ou're always thinking about your iob and the team. It's hard enough to concentrate on football and ;chool without getting into another sport." 
Because of his size (6-foot-3 and !30 pounds), Greg is an ideal ·utside linebacker. 
;:t~ enjoy the satisfaction of a 
o.f>d tackle," he says, tbut by the 
~y nature of th.e .P98iti.on·'. the 
=ackers should be: Ahe:J.Hst 
~1Z'· ~~· r:~ ~' 
:V:erybody figured I must likef.& hlt 
•ause I was so big. A hice check fS just as satisfying as. a nice hit, out I liked skating around pe&ple, too." 
As a linebacker, however, :.::ollins has to be sure that no one gets around him. And so far this season, not too many runners have--he is leading the Irish in tackles. 
"No one guy can handle the people on our front four one-on­one," says Collins. "That leaves the linebackersin aperfect position to make most of the tackles. Even though I'm leading the team in 1tackles, I tend to be pretty critical of muself. Personally, I think I could be doing a lot better. There are times when someone does get . around you or you completely miss a tackle or a guy squirms through your arms. But I've been able to 1 get away with the mistakes I've made because when one guy does make a mistake; someone else. is there to cover up for him. We're 
Greg Collins 
young, but we have a lot of good athletes starting for the first time-­everyone is so determined that we get a lot of pursuit. We don't have one dominating person out there. Everyone does his job and doesn't depend on anyone else to do it for him." 
Collins is the first to admit that he isn't the speediest player on the team--in fact, he almost. laughs at his speed. But linebacker coach George Kelly insists that Greg is a~ fast ~n anybody on the team--when he has to be. 
"Greg's clock spring time doesn't match is speed at getting to the ball," Kelly points out. "He excelerates far !beyond what you think he can when he sees that football. Jim Lynch was the same way--not a lot of speed, but he was always present around the ball." 
Greg's ball awareness, he says, is "based on confidence. You have to learn to read. keys and know where the play is going. To a point, the keys will give you the direction the ball is going, but the trick is more instinct than anything else. That instinct is nice to have. I can't say I do." 
Kelly says he does. 
"Greg is going to get involved in every play if it's humanly possible," says Kelly. "He knows what to expect on a play and that accounts for his being around the ball all the time. He certainly has been more capable than I would have hoped. He has a great future ahead of him." 
Hockey's loss has certainly been Notre Dame football's gain. 

OBSERVER 
SPC,RTS 
SAVE THE CHILDREN JOIN THE M,OD SQUAD 
Volunteer to help-collect for the March of Dimes before the USC: game. Come to 128 O'Shaughnessey between 10 a.m. and 11 a.m. Saturday morning. 
THE CHILDREIN NEEDI YOU 
I ·' r f.··.·t'r, ·, · ~ ' ~ t t' l ( ~ ( L. • I I f 
down the thunder from the sky!" 
We're favored exactly because this is our stadium and or fans­don't let USC down by being less than what they expect. Be old Notre Dame this is the time to be of one mind, one purpose, one idea­-beat USC--and stick it in their ear while we're doing it. 
And while we're doing it, let's never lose sight of the most im­portant thing--they guys on the 
field. They are the ones really sticking their necks out. Their's is the gamble supreme. Noamount of skin off the nose or ut of the wailet can touch the piece of themselves this one. 
No one smarts more or feels quite so badly after a loss--because no one has done more. No one can celebrate better or have a deeper feeeling of pride and satisfaction with winning, because even though its our victory, they've earned it on the field. They're our friends, neighbors, roommates. They'repeople who hurt and laugh and cry just like we do. 
But they're special people, becaue while we do all we can in the stands, they'll be on the field... beating USC. 
Tomor.row' Old Notre Dame 
they thrgw into every game--or th~_ WILL wm over all. 

"Smile, God Le.Y.es You" 
DERMSHEM © MOTORS 

"Tell your friend to buy his car here 
and if he does, we 'II give 
you $35!! 

*************************** 
*Economy 7~ _TOYOTA * : Special: S1hca SF 4 sp. :* Low Miles Low Price * 
'*************************** 
FINANCING AVAILABLE "If we don't have it, we'll get It" 
© OPEN MoiL, Tues., Thurs., 9-8; Wed., Fri., Sat., 9-6 CALL 233-5145 . 832 South Bend Awe. at l*ltre Da1111 Awe. 
HOUISr 
MOH • TUE5 • THUit -Fll 
9 AM 5:30PM WfD • SAT 9 AM 12 NOON COMPLETE $1'EICI'AClE

RoGERS 
SEIVICE AlL E'H OI.'S 
PRUCIUPTIONS HONORE£ 
Cal/

Optical 
2.89-7809

ROGER AlWEU • OWNER 
Make ready for the Christ, whose smile, like lightning, sets free the song of everlasting glory that now sleeps, in your paper flesh, like dynamite. 
Thomas Merton 

RETREAT -Nov. 9-11 
ROLLIE STAIR, CSC 
(Asst. Publisher -Ave Maria Press) 

THEME:  The Person of Jesus  
PLACE:  Old College  
A fee of $5 ($3 non-refundable deposit) will be requested.  
I I'  Sign up in the Campus Ministry Office in the· l,.;ibrary, ­103 • , • • • f ... ',. .... '.~ ~ .... \ l f' ~ ., ' ' . ;, I ~ ' '  (  : , ' : '· •  

~~------------~.•~,~.~~~~~~~,--~~~'·~·,~·-L~~~~·~·L•L•L·'~··~·-·~· •.·~------~------------------------------------------~ 

Friday, October 24, 1973 the observer 
ND meets USC in 'biggest game 
by Vic Dorr Tomorrow, at 12:50 p.m., the two .Anthony Davis returned the teams will turn their attentions to ensuing kick196 yards for a touch­
Sports Editor 

each other. down, and Southern Clifornia was Perhaps Willie Townsend said it "I think we'll be ready," said ND on its way to a romp. best. · head coach Ara Parseghian. "I Davis, a 5-9, 190 pound junior, 
The senior wide receiver from think we'll be emotionally, will make his second appearance Hamilton, Ohio, dragged his cleats physically, and mentally against Notre Dame tomorrow across Cartier Field's cinder track prepared. " · afternoon but, as Parseghian in-and quickened his pace towards "But we will "he caulioned "be dicated, he is not USC's only of­the practice area. playing a typical Southern' Cal fensive standout. There are 
He thought for a moment, then team. It has great overall balance. others. offered a brief, succinct two-liner. and outstanding skills. John's' ·· Flanker Lynn Swann (6-o, 180) is "Enough has been said," he (McKay) teams are always well-USC' s fourth leading career pass commented. "The time is here." coached, aggressive, and op-receiver and is also a menacing 
And for Notre Dame and portunistic. You can't afford to punt-return artist. The Trojans Southern California, two unbeaten, turn the ball over to them with employ him much as Nebraska highly-ranked college football errors because they make you pay employed Johnny Rodgers, and teams, the time is here. for mistakes. McKay feels the comparison is a 
The two teams will square off "Their tailbacks are very ef-valid one. "He is," said the USC tomorrow afternoon in Notre fective and its impossible to key on coach, "as valuable to us as Dame Stadium in front of a sellout them with Haden ready to unload Rodgers was to Nebraska." crowd of .59,075 and a huge the ball to Swann or J.K. McKay. Southern Cal has another television audience, and will tussle They put you in a position of having talented receiver in J .K. McKay for three hours in a game which to have a defense with both width (5-11, 163), and in junior QB Pat may well decide the 1973 National and breadth. And it is really dif-Haden (5-11, 171) they have one of Championship. ficult to play catch-up football the best "pure" .passers in the 
Coach John McKay's Trojans, 5-against them because they can college game. "He's one of he 0-1, are fifth-rated and count a 7-7 strike from any spot on the field." finest passers I've ever been tie with Oklahoma as the only Parseghian knows the dangers of around," said McKay. "I've never blemish on their otherwise perfect giving the Trojans an early lead. seen a passer with mo:re accuracy record. They outlasted His team trailed from the outset in than Haden." Washington State in a 46-35 .scoring last year's game, falling behind But if McKay's strong suit is his \ ; spree two weekends ago, but just 12 seconds into the first period, offense, then his trump card is his dismantled Oregon in methodical when Anthony Davis returned the defensive team--a team led by fashion last week, 31-10. opening kickoff 97 yards for the junior linebacker Richard Wood 
The Irish, on the other hand, are first of seven USC touchdowns. (6-2, 217), senior deep back Ar­5-0 and are placed seventh in one Thelrishmade a gallant attempt timus Parker (6-3, 215), and senior poll and eighth in the other. Coach to catch up during the next three rover-back James Sims (6-0, 192). N~tre Dame means one thing," they're bigger. We can't slug it out Ara Parseghian's squad began periods, but their comeback ran The Trojan defense has allowed said the USC coach. "You must with them. prepping for tomorrow's meeting out of gas during the final stanza. only 65 pointsinsix outings--and 35 make the big plays. We will not "Notre Dame," he concluded, with Southern Cal by posting a 28-0 After Tom Clements' third TD pass of those points came against win the game unless we do that, "is always Notre Dame." shutout against Rice. And Notre of th'e day had pulled the Irish to Washington State--and McKay, and we do have some ideas we're Willie Townsend was correct. For Dame which has allowed only one within two points of the Trojans, during his team's last two games, working on. Even as big as we are, Notre Dame the time is here. offensive touchdown in the' 20 McKay's crimson and gold-clad has noted offensive improvement quarters it has played, continued squad did strike from far away. It as well. its tune-up last week by lam­struck from the other end of the "We are playing much better basting Army, 62-3. field. offensively now than in previous 
weeks," he said. "We are still not
Frank Pomarico ===================;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;= great, but we are coming around. Nolo Contendere If we continue to block, throw, and catch as we did on Saturday we will move the ball."
Captain·'s Corner 
But the Trojans will have to 


move the ball against an Irish NOTRE DAME v. SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA defense which has drawn rave notices of its own. The last touch­The Supreme Judicial Court of down surrendered by Notre 
The Notre Dame Club of Ann Arbor,Notre Dame 62, Army 3. Hey there, SouthernCal,you'd better watch Dame's defenders was Larry Bar and Grill Association
out--the Irish are ready. Burton's 53-yard TD reception in The long waiting is over and Saturday we have a chance to repay our the Purdue game, and only a first From 1967 through 1971, plaintiff ND has been unable to defeat 
friends from the west coast. Through the past year the Irish coaches, period field goal last week by defendant USC. On 2 December 1972, plaintiff filed an action in Los players, and fans have been hearing a lot of talk about last year's game Army's Jim Barclay kept the Irish Angeles seeeking relief from this intolerable condition. Judgment was against Southern Cal. We've also been hearing that Ara can't win the big "D" from a second consecutive rendered aginst plaintiffs, C. Schenkel presiding as judge. Plaintiff 
one. shutout. appealed to another TV network; however, the decision was affirmed in 
Well, first of all it is no longer "last year." It is this year, And it is not And Notre Dame's offense, the Orange Bowl <Rodgers case), with J. Simpson and K. Rote acting as just Ara who loses a football game. It is the whole Notre Dame family. which hit a mild slump after an­judges in the case. And in this week's article I thought I'd take you--the other members of the nihilating 1Northwestern in the This case then found its way here amidst other appeals, most of them Notre Dame family--through our preparation week for the Southern Cal season opener, has been explosive from the Notre Dame Annual Fund. 
game. in its last two outings. Twenty­Opinion of the Court, Urda, Chief Justice; with Justices Bunda Burke 
It's October 21st, Sunday night, and the team is still talking about the eight points against Rice and 62 Burkley, Laracey, Ruschmann, and .Petelle, presideing. ' ' Army victory: 62-3. The coaches are, however, far past that and are against Army has left the Irish 
Mr. Justice Rusch mann delivered the opinion of the Court: looking towards the Southern Cal game. At the general meeting Ara says attack primed for Saturday's Plaintiffs brough this action on the following grounds: intentional
that we will be looking at a lot of SC film. We will start tonight instead of encounter with USC. 
infliction of mental distress; theft of passes and failure to return lostfollowing the regular practice of watching the previous Saturday's game "Playing a te~m with the skills mislaid and fumbled footballs; tampering with the weather in 1970 gam~
film. · of Southern California," stressed between ND and USC; conducting unauthroized upsets without validAfter hearing Ara say .this, everyone's minds turned toward the Parseghian, "always requires a (national) title; trespassing in the Irish end zone; and general un­coming "Trojan War." At this point, Ara gave a stimulating speech-so great team effort and a complete pleas~ntness, et~. ND_ seeks t? reverse and avenge the decisions won bystimulating, in fact, that the team would have KO'd SC in the first round if concentration on what it will take USC smce 1967, mcluding Davts v. People 0972), Theismann v. Monsoonwe'd played them right after he finished. to win--both on offense and (1970) and Simpson v. People (1967.
Monday's practice was low key, which is usually thecaseon Monday. defense. We can't win if we don't It is well settled ever since the third case of Phipps v. People (Indiana, However, there was absolutely no fooling around. Everyone was paying cover everything well." 
1969) was overruled by Theismann v. DeMoss (Indiana 1970), that noperfect attention to every play that was presented to us by the coaching Tomorrow's game marks the team can beat Notre Dame indefinitely. The law of averages is in
staff. Manday night's meetings were longer because we watched and 45th meeting between the two agreement, see T~e C:ollected. Works of Jimmy "The Greek" Snyder, etc. 
extra reel of film. Our impressions werethatSC is a very skilled football teams, and Notre Dame hasn't Cases from our c1rcmt, the Big Ten, are in accord, most recently Agasee team. beaten USC since the clubs met in v. HHayes ( 1971), in which a club avenged a long series of defeats against October 23rd, Tuesday. Only four days left until the game. Practice Los Angeles in 1966. The Trojans, a noted football factory.
was tough with plenty of good, hard work by the whole team. I asked though, are preparing for the game Moreover, ever since the twin landmark cases of Parseghian v. RoyalMike Fanning how the defense felt, and he said they were ready to go. I with all the intensity their coach (1971) and Carr v. UCLA 0971), plaintiff ND's reputation as a giant-killer
was glad to hear this because I knew that the offense, also, was ready. can stir up. They are healthy--with is ~stablished. Equally convincing were the recent Phelps cases (1973,That night's film meeting went a little faster becasuse we watched the the possible exception of rover­s~rmg ?f ups~ts) and the growing precedents in the ice-hockey field (orfilm from last year's game. back Sims, who may not play rmk), mcludmg Bumbacco v. Wisconsin(1973).
We all realized that we did a really good job against them last year because of an .ankle injury. They Defendant, replying to Nd's bill of charges, cites McKay v. Parseghianexcept for a few situations. We outgained them offensively and were all are bringing the Southern Cal 0966); in that case, following the establishment of deed and good title toover their backs in the third quarter--but we let them get away. And we marching band with them. 
the National Championship, McKay stated that "I'll never lose to another
all vowed it wouldn't happen again. And they have been cautioned ND team again." The court holds such lanaguage to be clearly irrelevant October 24th, Wednesday. The last hard practice of the week. The since April about taking Satur­to the case at bar, as the statute of limitations has run out' every member team worked very hard and had a good day. We were very confident that day's contest lightly. "Beating 
1966 USC Dickerson) having graduated or
we were as good as --or better than SC--and were ready to show it on of the team (even Sam 
?therwise left the school. Furthermore, McKay was expressly overruled 
Saturday. Wednesday night's meetings were spent simply going over the selected plays and blocking assignments for the game. Everyone, I felt, Ruggers play m Phelps v. Boyd CNIT, 1973), a New York case in which defendant USC 
was successfully defeated.
was ready. 
October 25th. Going into Thursday, the coaches did a good job of not tonight The application of Phelps to the present case is abundantly clear to the learned Jusitices of this Court. Plaintiff can, and should win this case.
getting us too emotionaltoosoon. It was a good day at practice, though 
Accordingly, we hold that defendant is guilty of all charges complained of
and our spirits were high. Notre Dame's undefeated rugby by the Irish, and is assessed as damages, the sum of 6 touchdowns and is October 26th, Friday. I hope that, by this article, the student body gets team will put their 9-o-1 record on required to surrender possession of their National Title.
an idea of what happens to the guys on the team during preparation week the line this. Friday against John . This case is reversed and a new trial is ordered for Saturday. The case 
for probably the.biggest college game of their careers.. Carroll University. The game will · of Stroh's used by this Court in adjUdicating thi,s action is ordered con-.
At any rate, all the talk is over andit's time· to 'play ball. We're going to be played under the lights on the sumed and refilled. ' · · · · · ' · 
win and I'm serious. Go Irish! Beat Southern Cal! Astrocturf of Cartier Field at 9 p.m. 
So ordered. 



Friday, October 26, 1973
the observer

6 
1972: SC's Davis demolishes ND 

Davis, 97-yard kickoff return. Davis, 1-yard run. 

Davis, 5-yard run. Davis, 4-yar.l 1un. 

Davis, 96-yard kickoff return. 

Davis, B-yard run. 



