-----------~---------------------------------------------------------~.~.~.~.--~-~.~.-----.-.~----------~----··--------------~.~------,
4 ' "' I "' "' '* • • ' I I 'I ' , .. I , • • • • f ~ t ; ' t , 't 
OD The Inside 
Observer Exclusive: An Interview with Thomas Barnard .•. page 3 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VIII, No. 28 Friday, October 12, 1973 

Faculty expresses 
views on recent 


Agnew resignation 
by Tony Proscio Staff Reporter 

· Faculty members, reacting to Vice President Spiro Agnew's recent resignation, have named former Treasury Secretary John Connally among President Nixon's most likely nominees to fill the vacancy. He is also, they believe, the least likely to be confirmed by the Senate. 
Agnew, who resigned Wed­nesday after two months of in­vestigation for tax evasion, bribery and extortion, is the second Vice President in history to vacate the post. 
Under the Twenty-fifth Ad­mendment, the President is required to appoint a successor subject to the approval of Congress. 
"If Connally is nonimated, he won't be confirmed," Dr. John Roos, government professor, speculated. "First, he bolted the Democratic party, so the Senate Democrats aren't going to let him get the Vice President's podium to run for the presidency. Secondly, it seems that Connally doesn't have the kind of super-dean image that would be appealing now." 
Roos, a native of Texas where Connally was governor until 1968, added that President Nixon's sesection of a new Vice President may indicate his preference for a Republican presidential candidate in 1976. 
political irony 

Commenting on the resignation itself, Professor Howard Reiter, specialist in American Govern­ment, said Agnew's conviction is "ironic" 
"All those years that he (Agnew )was going around 
. speaking on law and order, at­tacking people who disobeyed the law,he was taking bribes and not paying his income tax," he said. "There's a great deal of irony there. 
He added that, as a result of political scandals, politicians may be "a little more careful about what they do in office." 
Dr. Vincent De San tis, former chairman of the History Depart­ment and specialist in modern American history, said the Agnew resignation marks "a crisis for politicians." 
"It's a very serious matter for the political life of the country when this kind of thing happens," he noted. "The long string of allegations, disclosures and revelations is certainly harmful to the country as a whole, and surely a personal tragedy for Agnew. He's a kind of pathetic figure now." 
"light sentence" 

Particularly disturbing, he suggested, is the "relatively light sentence" the former Vice President received. 
"Tax evasion is an offense for which anyone else would have gone to jail," he Said. "This (Agnew) is a law-and-order man, a member of a law-and-order adminstration. What kind of lawlessness do you have here?" 
De Santis, a Republican, also suggested "some definite harm" to Nixon's influence in selecting a Republican presidential nominee. 
Law professor Dr. Charles Rice said the implications of Agnew's sentencing are not yet clear. 
"Technically, he did not plead quilty," he explained. "He pleaded nolo contendere which means he doesn't contest the claim. We'll have to wait until his press conference to see what that means." 
The plea made "no practical difference," he continued, because the sentence is usually the same as for a plea of guilty . 
University President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, currently testifying a Congressional com­mittee on civil rights, was not available for comment. 

Connally plans 
visit to Notre Dame 

see page 4 
University accused of pro-abortion stand 
by Greg Rowinski · Staff Reporter 

Two programs dealing with the abortion issue have lead to an exchange Qf letters between Bishop Leo Pursley and Fr. Theodore Hesburgh and Board of Trustees Chairman Edmund Stephan. 
Bishop Pursley's open. Jetter stated that the University had "publicly advocated pro-abortion positions." 
It further stated that the University had failed "to declare its opposition" to abortion and to "clarify and confirm its status as a Catholic University." 
The letter sent in rebuttal stated that "Universities, Catholic or otherwise, are esentially places where all human concerns are openly discussed." 
The answering letter added that the University's disagreement with the positions is "either spoken or obvious." 
"I surmise that (Bishop Pursley's) reference to "pro­abortion" positions refers to two meetings held in the Center for Continuing Education," according to Director of Information Richard Conklin. 
The first was a regional meeting of the Planned Parenthood-World Population <PP-WPl in June. The second was a conference_ September 26-27 on "God, The Family and Abortion," un­derwritten by a grant from the Indiana Committee for the Humanities as part of a Com­munity Education program, Conklin explained. 
Both pro-and anti-abortions positons were represented. 
Fr. James Burtchaell, University Provost, responded, "I believe that most of us at Notre Dame deplore homicidal abortion program of Planned Parenthood." 
"But , he added, "persuading is a stronger remedy that deploring." 
Dr. William Liu, director of the Center for the Studyof Man and former Chairman of PP-WP's committee on social science, stressed that the first meeting was not devoted to the topic of abortion. 
Liu added, echoing Fr.. Burt-chell's statement, "If we Christians choose to isolate our­selves from discussions on such issues as abortion, where we deeply disagree with others, leave them the field and public policy is formed by default." 
IIIIIIIIIHHIIHIIH!IIIIIIHIJIUIIIIIIIIIHHHIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIHIHIIIIIHII'""'IMI'IMMIHHHflftllllflllliNIIIIII 
It is a matter of general information that pro-abortion positions have been publicly advocated. on the compus of Notre Dame University. I have seen no adequate ex­planation of these events by representatives of the university. 
Simply as a statement of fact, not understood by all, the Ordinary of this Diocese has nothing to say about the academic and administrative policies of the University. This authority resides in the Board of Trustees. 
When, however, religious and moral issues are involved in a given situation, it is the right and duty of the Bishop of the Diocese to refute publicly any public statement contrary to the teaching of the Church when and where it may occur within his proper jurisdiction, a right and duty inherent in his office, will documented by Vatican II and supported by more recent pronouncements of the Holy See. 
If the Unversity feels that It must, or may, approve the appearance of speakers, designated above, in the name of academic freedom, it has at least and equal responsibility to declare its opposition to their views in the name of Catholic Faith and th\JS clarify this a reasonable expectation 
and confirm its status as a Catholic University. I con. sider this a reasonable ex­pectation. I cannot ask for less and discharge my obligation to the University itself and to the common good of the people I am appointed to serve. 
leo A. Pursley Bishop of Fort Wayne-South Bend 
The University of Notre Dame has no problem, in principle or in practice, with the Open Letter of the Bishop, dated October 11, 1973. Neither the Church nor the University can be harmed by the public disagreement of sincere men. We often discuss at the University ideas with which we disagree, e.g. Communism, racial prejudice, abortion. etc., and, as a Catholic University, our disagreement is either spoken or obvious. It should likewise be obvious that universities, Catholic or otherwise, are essentially places where all human concerns are openly discussed. 
We do little, in principle, to 
pubIize these internal discussions which seek to promote truth and justice as we understand it. However, at times, for what appears to us to be sensational and non. University reasons, a certain type of Catholic seems to revel in publicizing such University discussions as if to suggest that we are no longer Catholic or have abandoned 
our ancient faith. 

If this country is to find a 
better legal policy and 
practice in the matter of 
abortion than it now has. by 
Supreme Court decree, it 
would appear fairly obvious 
that we must discuss our 
differences with those who 
propose and have _promoted 
the present situation. If in­
telligent Cathoi ics had held 
such discussions in the past, 
instead of mainly talking to 
themselves, we might not now 
be in the present deplorable 
situation 

Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. Edmund A: Stephan 
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111"lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 



NEW YORK-The government charged Thursday that former At­torney General John N. Mitchell is trying to get conspiracy and ob­struction of justice charges against him dismissed by asking for White House tape recordings.
warld OAKLAND-Jim Hunter pitched abrilliantfive-hit shutout Thursday ~nd Oakland's old pros delivered the key hits as the A's won the deciding playoff game 3-o, over the BaltimoreOriolesfor their second 6traight American Leaguepennant The victory sent the A's into the . World Series against the New York Mets starting Saturday in Oakland. 
br lefs STOCKHOLM-Two Austrians and one Dutchman were awarded the 
.l973 Nobel Prize for Medicine Thursday for their pioneering studies in the comparison of animal and human behavior patterns. Karl Von Frisch, 86, an Austrain living in Munich; Konrad Lorenz of Vienna, Austria, and Nikolaas Tinbergen, 66, a Dutchman living in Oxford England, will share the prestigious prize that also carries a cash award equivalent to $112,834. 
UNITED NATIONS-8ecretary General Kurt Waldheim urged members of the Securit)Council Thursday to overcome their political differences and move toward ending the war in the Middle East. 
WASHINGTON--House Democratic leaders, repsonding to a request by Secretary of State Henry Kissinger, have put off until at least Oct. 23 action on a trade reform bill because of a the mideast war, ac­cording to Congressional sources. 
WASHINGTON--Presidnet Nixon received more than 300 Republica!!s' suggestio!!~ for ~ new v~ce president Thursday night, and a White House official said he might announce his choice of a ~uccessor to Spiro T. Agnew as early as Friday. 
friday 

an campus laday 
3:30 p.m.--lecture,wilfrid sellars, -"persons and values", library faculty lounge 
4:30 p.m.--reilly lecture, "protein-lipid interactions", by prof. sunney chan, room 123 nieuwland hall 4:30p.m ... nieuwland lecture, "to see the invisible" by thomas eisner, 
room 278 galvin life science bldg. 7 and 10 p.m.--film, dr. zhivago, engineering aud. 8 p.m.--midwest blues II, houston stackhouse, roosevelt sykes, 
hounddog taylor and the houserockers, stepan center 8 and 10 p.m.--film, the virgin and they gypsy, holy cross aud., nd 
8:15 p.m.--conert, chicago symphony trio, library aud. 
8:30 p.m.--drama, richard the third, o'laughlin aud 
9:30 p.m ... smc coffeehouse, john salveson, david shaheen, rick walters, tony amenta, lower level cafeteria 
10 p.m.--concert, featuring windjammer, flanner's america saturday 
10 a.m.-~conference, "non-authoritarian approaches to discipline for the delinquent" by robert I. powers, carroll hall, madeleva memorial 
1 and 4 p.m ... film, dr. zhivago, engineering aud. 3 p.m.--art openings, anne raymo, moreau gallery beneath o'laughlin; karen peloaton, hammes gallery 8 p.m.--midwest blues II, an indianapolis blues jam: stepan center 
8:30 p.m.--drama, richard the third, o'laughlin aud. 8 and 10· p.m.--film, shock corridor, engineering aud. 
sunday 1 and 4 p.m.--film, dr. zhivago, engineering aud. 
6:30 p.m.--founder's day celebration, stapleton lounge 
Hesburgh urges 
Enlarge civil rights commission 
Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh, former chairman of the U. 8. Commission on Civil Rights, suggested to a House sub­committee Thursday that the domestic purview of the Com­mission be enlarged to include international human rights issues. 
In testimony before the. House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on International Organizations and Movements, Hesburgh proposed 
enlarging the scope of the Com­mission as an alternative to a House bill to establish within the Department of State a Bureau of Humanitarian Affairs. 
"While I certainly would not object to any step that would in-
Student affairs committee meets 
by Joseph LaFiare Staff Reporter 

The Student Affairs Committee of the Board of Trustees will meet today at 10:00 a.m. in the Center for Continuing Edu~ation. 
According to Dr. Robert Ackerman, Director of Staff Development, the main purpose of the meeting is to simply gather information from various organizations concerning what is happening both on campus and off­campus; this information is then presented to the full Board of 
Trustees when they  meet at the  
end of October.  
"This  meeting  is  intended  to  

inform the Board of Trustees of what is happening concerning Student Affairs. It is not a policy­making meeting," said Dr. 
Fred Baranowski resident of the 


Live music 
9 to 2:30 
tonight and saturda 
50' at the door 
no increase in price of drinks 
tensify our government's concern with the international human rights questions, I am concerned that a bureau within the Depart­ment of State might lack the in­dependence and forcefulness needed in this area," Father Hesburgh testified. 
"I think it would be worthwhile to consider reconstituting the Commission on Civil Rights as a Commission on Human Rights with the broadest domestic jurisdic­tion ... and with the ·further responsibility of studying, reporting on, publicizing and making recommendations with respect to international human rights issues," Hesburgh con­tinued. 
Fr. Hesburgh argued that the 
Ackermar. 

Father Flanigan, Associate Vice­President of Student Affairs, will present a report concerning the residence halls. 
There is little "crowding" now as compared to last year's situation, said.Fr. Flanigan. "Only a few freshmen are doubled-up. Any 'crowding' which exists among upperclassmen is simply voluntary." 
Flanigan mentioned that most students who wanted a room on campus this year were ac­comodated. 
There will also be a report on the off-<!ampus situation by Dr. Fac­cenda 's staff. Dr. Faccenda not available for comment. 
Other speakers will be Student Body President, Dennis Etienne; nation "must move beyond civil and political rights and afford protection to economic and social rights." In the past, he pointed out, economic and social benefits have been considered privileges rather than rights, and he described this as "too narrow a view," especially 
in  terms  of establishing rapport  
with  the  world's  socialist  coun­ 
tries.  

He also noted that the United States has ratified only two of the more than 20 human rights con­venants and conventions drafted since the establishment of the United Nations. He argued for passage of several pending resolutions in the House which would strengthen the hand of the United Nations in furthering and 
Hall Presidents Council; Bill Lavage, president of the Graduate Student Union, and Professor Frederick Syburg, Chairman of the Student Life Council. A report by th~ La Fortune Renovation Commhtee is also on the agenda. 
The Observer is publiShed daily during the college semester except vacations by the stUdents of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for sa per semester IS14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre O.me, Ind. 
46.556. 
protecting human rights on a global scale, including the ap· pointment of a High Commissioner for Human Rights. 
Fr. Hesburgh cited four Com· mission reports which have criticized the federal civil rights 
enforcement effort. 

The midwest's most complete need~epoint shop 
SPECIAL: 10 percent discount upon presentation of student I 0 
HOURS: MONDAY-SATURDAY, 10am-9pm SUNDAY 
*This Weekend * 

KAMM'S Bl5WElY 
FR..IDAY ANi SATUIL.DAV 




OCTOBER IZ"13 
·TIL MIDNITii • 
c~•aM"'~J S~~IL· fOOV 
~ -/{ .p. 

MUS.\c:., 
100 C~NT~R 

School house Too 
In the Brewery 100 Center Complex Mishawaka, Ind. Phone -259-8181 
ROCCO'S 

537 N. St. Louis Bldv. 
across from Pandora's 
South Bend's finest pizza, spaghetti, Italian sand­wiches, and American food. 
carry outs: 233-0872 


609 East Jefferson Mishawaka 

·',·,.,• ••,·. •••·• ,·,~.·,·.· 1 ., .• •r·J,' ... ,.f•·'·' \,.,.~ L.~. • •.. .. "~.. , ,,, '\' , ~,
-.~·~,··; .•
-~ ····: ••., ~ ' • ~ ..... : .•. ~.\. .. I 1 ,·,•.·. ~A~·--· J'!' ·_.....J .::;1 •• ,~, ... I ,, 'J ... 
• ·,·· ·;:i-•V"!.'"-':~"'"'·,.,-;, •r..G.-<s ..·~~,,·~~!.:_i_·:,_..... ~_::.!.{./'·2·1 .!.: ___._1_~-.:__..c:_______~-------~-­
4 ~· 4 ~:..:~:..;';.:·/·:..o'iii'---.....;.~_____!!_ 


It"', • • I I ,
.. . .. ' ', ,.,,. .,, ,· ·, .... ~ •.. : '., ..
~ ~ 

;• • •••••..,. •• • • • • • • • • •· •• ,J.,..,'Wv.., ""'"" .. ., .,. .... .: il• • r:. • • • c. • ~ • • •, • • •· •·.., .,.--....;.,._ ...,_ • • • ••-c-••• • • • • r.• •' • • ._.. • ~ .. • •• ... ._ _ _. ... .., •• ••·•·-•,•:v ..•..-•• .,. _....,.•. .,...,.., ~ ~ •·• ._ • 9 -. •••••-.. .... ~ ..,~........_.,......_...J...... 
Barnard tells story of abduction 
Recounts three-day ordeal ending in Arizona 

put a small electric calculator, aby Zenon Bidinski school book, a binder, and a fewStaff Reporter other things of no significance in it.
Thomas J. Barnard disappeared 
Observer: What happened after
Tuesday, Sept. 25, after an ap­you rented.the car?
parent burglary of his home. 
Barnard: After we rented the car, 
Police in Phoenix, Arizona, found 
he made me drive to O'Hare
the ND student three days later, 
Airport.
half unconscious at the foot of a 
Observer: Did you talk to him on
small mountain in the northern the way to Chicago?
part of the city. 
Barnard:: No, not really, He told
Barnard, 23. of 536 W. 
me to go to O'Hare and that was
Mishawaka Ave., recently decided 
basically it. He said a few little
to release ·information on his ab­
things, but nothing that I
duction. He had previously 
remember and certainly nothing of
withheld all information pending 
any consequence. Later, while we
questioning by the FBI. 
were at the airport, I attempted to
Below is the text of an exclusive 
converse with him in some slight
interview which Barnard granted 
manner, asking him where we
to Observer staff reporter, Zenon 
were going and why he was taking
Bidzinski. 
me along, but I received no 
response. Observer: Tom, let's go back ~o •Observer: What did you do when the beginning. On Tuesday you arrived at O'Hare? morning, Sept. 25, how did your Barnard: He told me to get two kidnapper get into your apart-tickets to Colorado Springs. He ment? . . had previously taken the money 
, Barnard: First of all, my wife, out of my wallet, only a few Nancy, had left for school so I was dollars, and gone through my home alone. He came to the door credit cards, including a master and he knew my name. He was Charge. He didn't specifically tell able to force his way in, catching me to charge them, but I presumed me somewhat off guard by men-he knew it could be done. So I got 


(THE OBSERVER.) 


I Barnard Interview 
Friday, October 12, 1973 Page 3 
tioning my name. In the process two tickets ta Colorado Springs,he knocked me out. nonstop, for that afternoon, but for Observer: What's the next thing some reason he didn't like those. 

' you remember? Observer: Where was he when youHarnard: When I came to shortly bought the tickets? 
after, he was ransacking the entire Barnard: He was within sight of place. He warned me and urged but not 'next to me. This was mid­me to cooperate, telling me that he afternoon and I'--was still goinghad an accomplice who had some under the assumption that he was 
direct or indirect control over my serious about the threat. wife. He knew where she worked Observer: How did you get a and knew the right things to say to chance to write the note? 
make me believe he was very Barnard: Well, for some strangeserious. He said that if I didn't reason he didn't like the tickets to cooperate Nancy would be in Colorado Springs and so we walked ganger. So because of that and around O'Hare for a while. I went because I didn't feel any imminent into a rest room there and 

~hysical danger at that time, I was managed to write a note on a paperinclined to go along with him and towel and attached it to the car not take the chance of putting keys and the parking stub. He keptNancy in jeopardy. some distance from me while we Observer: How long did you were walking around and it was remain at your apartment? crowded. As we were going up into Barnard: We were there fgr about one of the concourses where the two hours and then he directed me security was checking passengers, to a certain place downtown to rent he apparently did not want to be a car. I walked ahead and he seen too close to me, and I dropped
followed a ways back, all the way the note in a mailbox as I was from the apartment to downtown going around a corner there. South Bend. He had me rent a car Observer: What exactly did youwith my Master Charge, and he say in the note? stayed outside. At this time I still Barnard: It's hard for me to 
was taking him very seriously remember. I have not seen the 
because of the threat to ":ancy. note and the FBI has it in 
'I didn't say 'What I wanted to say' 
Observer: What exactly did he Washington. It was written very take from the apartment? quickly and I probably didn't say Barnard: He took six articles of what I wanted to say, so I don't Jewelry, none of them too valuable. remember the exact wording. The The total value was about a few. gist of the note was that there was h~ndred dollars. In fact, one of the a threat against Nancy's life. I pieces was a synthetic diamond. wanted to make sure Nancy was 
Observer: ·were either of you adequately protected. I also said carrying anything with you? that I had been forced to rent a car, Barnard: He had nothing large and that I was being taken and noticeable like a suitcase, but I somewhere, but I didn't know had my briefcase which he had where. I believe I also gave a brief instructed me to bring. He had me description of him. 


at every moment, but I don't think he had the time. Nevertheless, I was still fairly certain that the note hadn't gotten anywhere by then. He had me walk out of the airport and go to a motel a few blocks from the airport. We had to check into the motel. He didn't come in with me, but was right outisde when I checked into the room. We went to the room and went to sleep almost immediately. He slept near the door, and I didn't sleep very much of the night. I was constantly aware of the fact that I thought he was awake. Observer: That accounts for Tuesday. What happened Wed­nesday? 
Barnard: Wednesday morning we checked out of the motel, and he instructed me to walk up the street. I had the idea at the -time that he knew where he was and that he was somewhat familiar with Phoenix. Previously he had instructed me to run a number of Tom Barnard and his wife Nancy. (Photos by Zenon Bidinski) errands. First I was to go to a bank to get some money with my Master Charge. Nancy had canceled the account, so the bank refused the 
Observer: Who was the note the tickets were purchased both request. Then I went to a hard­addressed to? were put in my name, and we were ware store and bought a large Barnard: The Mishawaka, In­assigned seats next to each other. jackknife and a carpenter's square diana Police. I presume that Either one or both of these facts for him. because the apartment had been could have been something he Observer: Do you know why you ransacked Nancy would call the didn't like. He may just have been bought the items you did or what Mishawaka police to report the burglary and they would be the best ones at this time to take care 



Kidnaper appeared
or at least to get all the facts together. I signed my name and put my address on it so they would know there was a connection. 


'deadly serious'
Observer: Is it true, as was reported earlier, that you siad your abductor had escaped from 

covering up, as you say, but I don't he did with them? somewhere? think so. Barnard: No. I presume he kept
Barnard: In the note I think I did Did your abductor do the jackknife but I no idea
Observer: have use the phrase that I though he was 
anything significant on the plane, what he did with the carpenter'sescaped from somewhere, but that such as meet anyone? square. He also took my briefcase was just my impression. Because Barnard: As far as I know, no. He that day and I never saw it again. 
of the things he said when warning. didn't sit next to me. He sat in a Observer: What did you do after me about Nancy, because of how 
number of different places these errands? he said that I would have to throughout the flight. It was dark Barnard: We checked into another cooperate with him, and because of in the plane, but I did notice him motel further north ef the airport. phrases he used such as "come moving around quite a bit. Once when I was in the bathroom 
along with me", I had the im­Observer: Up to this point, what there he made one or more phone

pression that he was not just out to opinion did you have of him? calls. I don't know to whom or how take a vacation that he was in fact Barnard: Well, l thought he was long it lasted or what the subjectrunning from something in order to 
serious, both in his attitude and in was; but I presumed the worstat take such drastic measures. We the things that he knew and said. I the time. That is, that he was still do not know if he was an though that he was deadly serious, calling back here to make sure of escaped convict, an AWOL soldier, in fact. He seemed very quiet on something, or just to keep me 
an escaped mental patient, or the the surface, , but he led me to honest and keep me with him. But like. There's no conclusive proof, believe that he might be easily at this time, as of Wednesdayalthough the FBI is checking for riled up. He seemed to be very afternoon, he was keeping a much 
recent escapees in these areas. athletic and very dangerous if he tighter reign on me than he had Observer: Gettihg back to the were' provoked. Tuesday. I was fairly certain that 
airport, what happened after your 

Observer:· What happened when the note had gotten sotnewhere byabductor decided that he didn't you got off the plane in Phoenix? then, and I was beginning to think want the Colorado Springs' Barnard:: After landing in somewhat about trying to get away 
tickets? 

Phoenix, .I don't think he made a or trying to do something else. 
Barnard: Then he said to get the 

telephone call. I couldn't be sure, 
(continued on page 10)
next flight to Phoenix. I still do not 

because I didn't have sight of him 
know why. I managed to buy two tickets on an American flight to Phoenix which arrived there about ten, our time. He had me put the last name of Martin on one of the ~ tickets and my name on the other one. He gave me the ticket with the name Martin on it, and I 
.~~ 
checked in on the flight. He got on the flight with the other ticket and sat across the plane from me. It was a large 747. I had just put the note in the mailbox within an hour and was still not in any position, I though, to do anything overt to jeopardize Nancy's safety. So I went along with him rather than call the captain of the plane. It entered my mind that it was very reasonable to assume that he would have to check with his ac­complice when we reached Phoenix-, and if he did not check· in when we set down then there would be a great deal of danger to Nancy. Observer: Did you think the 
,
tickets to Colorado Springs were purchased as a cover-up for the 

trip to Phoenix? ,
Barnard, I'm not sure ThE: way Tom and Nancy Barnard show the jewelry box Barnard s kid­· · napper rifled, taking six pieces, but nothing of greatvalue. 
. ·, :-• ~ .' .... ,' .I •• : ·~:-.'.\~'\)·'· \,"'.,~·'·':.•~'''' ,,,, ., .•. ,. •• _.)_I_J>,!JJ~·.•'"'~·'· ''.·'' '.•,".' 

the observer Friday, October 12, 1973 


Who heads up the University Judicial Board and how can I get in
( 
touch with that person?
l, 
The gentleman you seek goes by the name of Dave Grimmer and can be reached at either 6413 or 3261. He is an undergraduate student and his official title is Judicial Co-ordinator. 
When is Sweetest Day? 
Sorry to say, but it seems that there is no concensus of opinion as to just exactly when Sweetest Day is supposed to be. Ho~ever, after consulting with several florists, a good bet would be October 20, since the majority of those consulted came tip with that date. 
Is the Golden Dome of the Administration Building really made of gold? 
The Notre Dame Golden Dome is plated with a thin gold leaf. Before 1961, the underlayer was made of iron which unfortunately rusted out too quickly. So in 1961, they put monel under the gold. -This material proved to do the job much better due to its non­rusting properties and is expected to 'last for a long duration of time. As just a note of interest, when the Dome was last replated, several members of the Notre Dame Administraton and Staff were given small squares of the gold used in the replating process and momentos. Who says the t!niverslty isn't generous} , 
When is the next film in the Civilization Series due to be shown? 
The next offering is The Great Thaw and will be presented in the Engineering Auditorium at 2p.m. on October 16 and at 3:20p.m. on October 17. 
Woody Herman's band 
, 


Jazz on Tuesday 
The Notre Dame Jazz Band in its first public performance of the year will appear on the progrm as warm-up group for the Herman Band in ~he concert scheduled to begin at 7:30p.m. on Tuesday. 
This concert sponsored by the Michiana Friends of Jazz will wrap up an afternoon of workshop sessions by the members of the Herman Band for area high school and college jazz students. The clinic sessions at O'Laughlin, beginning at 2:00p.m., are open to any jazz instrumentalists in­terested in learning from some of the best in the business. 
Tickets for the evening concert can be purchased at the Student Union Ticket Office in the Student 
Center for $4.00 <all tickets at the door will be $5.00). 

Connally to speak on Nov. 20 
by Paul Colgan 
Staff Reporter 
John B. Connally, whoin UPI sources say would accept a request from President Nixon to become vice president if it is offered, will speak here on November 20. 
Connally, a probable Presidential aspirant in 1976, is scheduled to speak at a $100 per plate Michiana GOP fund-raising dinner at the Athletic and Convocation Center. He will also appear at a $1000 per person reception. 
Sources close to the former Treasury Secretary and Democratic Governor of Texas told UPI, "If he's asked to become the vice president, he couldn't turn it down. He's got the desire for leadership. For sure, he'd do it." 
The appointment would give Connally ·a boost for the 1976 Republican Presidential nomination. However, "This is not the way he would like it all to be happening," one source said. 
"He f~els he could have legitimately gone through the primaries and legitimately won the nomination and he still may -have to do this," UPI was told. 
Connally has not announced publicly_ whether he would accept the vice presidency if offered. . · 
President Nixon plans to nominate an Agnew replacement sometime this weekend, possibly today, according to UPI reports. 
Connally's appearance here in Sot,~th Bend as vart of an unusual two-state fund-raising effort for the 1974 Republican campaign will take on major significance if he is nominated. It could signal the start of his 1976 cam.paign effort. 

Why do soine people think Bud®is sort· of special? 
Go ahead and find out why! 


When you say Budwei~ere, you've said it all! . 
• , )  '  • • •  ANHEUSER·BUSCH. INC. • ST. LOUIS  '­..  
·-­ 
.,. 

L.____ 
The Woody Herman Orchestra 
will appear in concert on Tuesday, 
October 16, at SMC's O'Laughlin 
Auditorium. 
Woody Herman, despite his 35 
years in front of a big band 
stretching from the "Band That 
Plays the Blues," "Thundering 
Herds One, Two and Three down to 
his current "Young Herd," has 
remained extremely current. He 
has had the unique ability to please 
his fans from 1945 and from 1973. 
The Herman Band has always 
been a thrilling revelation to those 
unfamiliar with the power and 
drive of big band jazz and jazz­
rock. 
Herman, always known for his 
exciting music, has made as much 
of an impact on and contribution to 
the current attempts to blend jazz 
and rock as anyone. Beginning 
with his best-selling "Light My 
Fire" album of 1968 and extending 
through "Brande New," an -effort 
with Mike Bloomfield, down to his 
latest release, "Giant Steps,"1' he 
has melded the driving rhythms of 
rock with the excitement of first 
rate jazz soloists. 
Symphony trio 
to perform 
tonight at 8:15 
The Chicago Symphony Trio will present a concert at 8:15 p.m. tonight in the Library Auditorium. Admission for the event, which is sponsored by the University's music department, is $1. · 
Members of the trio, making its fifth appearance at Notre Dame, are Victor Aitay, Katherine Glaser and Frank Miller. Aitay is concert master of the Chicago Symphony Orchestra, Glaser pianist, and Miller principal cellist. 
The program includes "Trio for Piano, Violin and Cello, Opus 1, No. 1 in Eb Major" by Beethoven; "Duo for Violin and Cello" by Piston, and "Trio for Piano, Violin, Cello, {)pus 63 in D Minor" by Schumann. 



Connally 

Charter Group Flight to Orient 
call Toll Free 
(800) 227-1969 (U.S. 
except California) 
(800) 982-5827 
(California only) 
If you plan a trip to Japan, Hong Kong & Orient, make sure ­give us a call -a big savings. 
Athletic and


NOTRE DAME 
Convocation Center 
Ticket Prices: Tickets on sale:
Bleachers ___________ $3.00 
ACC
Lower Arena _________ $5.50 
(Mon-Sat 9 to 5)
Loge _____________ ~ _$6.50 Platform _, ___________ $6.50 
and Student Union 
Floor Seats __________ $6.50 
Ticket Office. 



------~~-~~­




Israel penetrates 
Syria; forces head 
for Damascus 
By United Press International ing Israelis barely 32 airline 
Israel said its troops and miles away from the Syrian tanks, led by dive bombing capital. warplanes, slashed more than The big drive into Syria was six miles into Syria Thursday believed aimed at knocking out in what Defense Minister the Syrian armed forces and Moshe Dayan said was a drive leaving the Israelis free to toward Damascus. Dayan said concentrate on the Suez front Syrian forces were "practically where powerful Egyptian forces broken," with~some retreating have crossed the Suez canal ond others running away. and seized most of Israel's Bar­
Dayan said "I think that in 24 Lev Line of fortifications. hours Damascus will be in real An Israeli commando unit danger." crossed the Suez Canal early 
An Israeli communique said Thursday and shot up Egyptian the armored column stormed supply convoys before returning out of the Golan Heights and safely to the East Bank, the broke through the Syrian front Israeli command said. line of minefields and tank A Syrian communique late traps. It said the Israelis Thursday said, the "enemy "pentetrated to a depth of 10 launched a counterattack in the kilometers (6.2 miles) ·into northern sector of the front. Syrian territory and-are con­Our ground forces engaged him tinuing their advance on the and destroyed 61 tanks. Fight­Qneitra-Damascus axis." ing is still going on." 
Qneitra is situated in the Israeli national radio corre­
middle of the 60-mile Golan spondents on the scene said the 
Heights front with Syria. The Israelis were chasing retreating 
advance would put the advanc-Syrian troops, capturing hun­
dreds of exhausted officers and 
soldiers, while Israeli war­

Improper voti~g 
planes carried out massive strikes against air fields andprocedures cause army camps in the interior. They said the Israelis wereinvalid elections encountering only light resis­
by Jane Cannon tance. Staff Reporter 

THE ROMA

Improper voting procedures on the part of a small group of students has forced the election 
welcomes 

committee to declare Thursday's 
N D & SMC students!

election for vice president of 
Regina South invalid. 
your host

Patti Kampsen, speaking for the election committee, explained, 
Frank Anastasio 

"Upon close examination of election procedures we would like to bring to the attention of the 
*PIZZA 

voter that no write-in votes are allowed, and should a write in 
*LIQUOR

occur it would not be counted as a vote, and it it would be diregarded in the tabulaion of votes. Ab­
*ITALIAN

stentions will also be disregarded in the tabulations" 
, FOOD

"Whichever of the two candidates receives the majority of votes (in 
Happy hours 4-7 dally the next election) will be declared 
Dancing to the sophisticated

the winner," Kempsen concluded. 
jan-rock of the Bill Nicks Trio

Camapigning for Monday's election will begin at 10 p.m. 
FOR DELIVERIES

Thursday, October 11, and run 
CALL 232·3258

until midnight Sunday, October 14. Voting will take place in the Regina lobby on Monpay, October 
219 N. Michigan Avenue 

15, from 10 a.m., to 6 p.m. 
Downtown South Bend 
"Smile, God Loves You"© DERSHEM MOTORS ©
Quality Cars-From $395-$1595
G F 
59 Buick Electra '225' 4 Door
R Hr.rdtop, lull power, low miles, utro shoro · R 66 Buick LeSabre 2 Door VI 
Hordtop, outomotl!, stunn_g Vtnyl lllorp' E
A 
65 Buick Electro '225' 4 Door Hordtop, lull power, o.r Uooa tom~ly mr. E
N 66 Chevy Caprice 4 Door "ordtopVrnyl. I owner (leanest rn town!
D 67 Thunderbird 2 Door 
Hardtop loaded wtth extras. 5 67 Buick Electra '225' 4 DoOt" 
Hardtop FuU power. Oil N 
67 Chevy lmDGia 2 Door Hardtop0 Y8 automat!<, pqwer !teem\~ o1r 0 6B Ford Galaxie '500 ·2 Door
p Hardtop, Wlnyl top power w 69 Buick Sport Waaon-9 pouengerAIJfom:lh(, tulipower err
E 
69 Pontiac Bonneville 2 Door 
Hordtcp, •••yl top Oil T
N 69 Fiat '150' Spider Roadster 
4 \pted hon~mn.Ston I
I 
R
N 
E 
G 5 
I

C. '."' • ..0. o" ._ ~ f' 'I ' I ,. 'I 4 f .,
'.' ,. ·~ ~· . • . ~ '~ t : •• p 
. .. ... .. .. .. . . . . . . . ............... . 
Friday, October 12, 1973 
the observer 5 
Conjure mystic symbols. 
Hand fashioned decorator plaques from the mystac realm! Natural form occult motifs. Far out futuristic art nouveau. Astrological and tarot symbolism. Color rich graphic designs framed against shining lacquered wood backgrounds. Also assorted traditional wall plaques. All by Greg Wallace. $ ­Sizes7"x10"-15"x22". 




3.50· • 14.00 

GERMAN BEER 
GERMAN FOOD 
GERMAN MUSIC 
GERMAN FLAGS 
OCT· -12 & 13 open til midnight for festival 
100 Center Complex Old Kahm's Brewery 

PIER 1 DOCKS A BOOKISH CARGO. 
Brand new hardcover books! 50%-80% less than original price. Overstock and reissues from the publisher. Books for you, books for them, and books for the kids. Come and browse in Pier l's new book 
nook! $ 1 • 0 0-1 2 • 9 9 
I 

I'­
0 .J iII 
' ...: !·,". 


<Editor's note: Since the editorial 
was ·written Wednesday night,



THE OBSERVER 

there was no way the writer could 

P.O. 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER have checked Thursday's results, which were not in until 6 p.m. 
Art Ferranti Executive Editor 
Lee Gentine Business Manager Jerry Lutkus Dan Barrett· Editor-in-Chief Executive Editor 
NEWS: 283-1715 EDITORIALS: 283-8661 John Kloos 
Advertisinq Manager 
BUSINESS: 283-7471 
Friday, October 12, 1973 

The 0-C Letter 
Something which could be extremely 
beneficial has come out of the Student Affairs office this week, particularly in light of the repressive habits now being ·developed by the "enforcers,, in the of­
fice. 
Fr. James Shilts, Director of Off­
Campus Residence, is,preparing to send 
out a letter to the off-campus students 
questioning tern as to fhe quality of the 
house that they are residing in. How 
much weight the letter holds in im­
proving the quality of off-campus housing 
is certainly unclear. But unquestionably, 
it's a step in the proper direction. 
If Notre Dame intends to do anything to 
improve the quality of 5.1enerally sub­
standard off-campus housing, they have 
taken the first step. The next move is with 
the students. 
The questionnaire should be answered 
and notes should be included about 
negligent landlords. Those men and 
women who have exploited ND students 
should finally feel the result of their sins and those good landlords should likewise sense the reward of their continued good service to students. 
A university the size and importance of Notre Dame cannot condone exploitation of students and discrimination in rentin$1 houses. 
What comes after the letter? The office plans to make a complete listing from the returns that they get to the questionnaire. With that hopefully, it will become public knowledge who is ripping off the students. The course then is obvious. If students are willing to boycott those landlords on the list who have hassled students, then those landlords will be forced to improve their rentals and likewise improve their attitudes. 
True, the landlords are not the only offenders; for sme student renters ca II down trouble on themselves. But, the student who rents for the first time and moves into liis home in September should not be forced to pay for the offenses of those who have come before him. 
.~erry Lutkus 

a sad vengence 
It's sad in a way. So many of us had hoped that the 

r;
Student Affairs office would provide . much needed leadership in determining a.1iable policy for the University insofar as > social life was concerned. Our hopes I were buoyed by the reassuring words ~ that c;am from Messurs. Faccenda and I Macheca during the recent SLC ( meetings, Coupled with Fr. Burtchaell'sl sermon at the mass opening the school I year, they outlined an impressive con­
ceptualization of what Notre Dame felt to be its obligation to her students. All that is ashes now as four young men who dared give a party face a strange

i 
form of punishment. In a perverted' 

'·· 
con~irmation of the importance of athletics on this campus, the Dean of Students has made it impossible for the students to attend any home Basketball, Hockey, or Football games during the academic year. Little is said about the fact that the. students told their rector about the proposed party days before it occured or that their case isn't to be reviewed until January; that hardly matters. All the talk about "rehabilitory discipline" and providing moral leadership has fallen by the wayside as 


Box Q, 
SMC 
Elecfion 
Committee 
Replies 
Editor: 

On behalf of the Election Committee and the Executive Board of the Student Board of Governance of St. Mary's we would care to point out a few pertinent facts concerning the editorial of the Regina South Vice­Presidential elections. 
Maria Gallagher seems to feel that another election was "forced" on a "reluctant electorate." How did she assume that this was a "reluctant electorate?" Had Maria checked with the Election Committee, she would have found that 102 Regina South residents out of the 119 eligible voters voted on Thursday. In earlier elections an average of 85 eligible voters voted. Is this the response of a "reluctant electorate" that "couldn't care less?" 
This election was not forced. It is normal procedure to revote when neither of the two candidates receives a majority. 1 Student Governmant is in no position to appoint an official that according to Procedural Manual must be elected. It is unfortunate that so many elections must be held, however it is only being done to ensure a fair election. 
As Maria pointed out, Regina Hall may be tunning well without a Vice-President from Regina South. This, however, puts an extra burden on the hall officers which they should not have to bear. Again we question Maria's sources. She did not contact the Hall President or the Hall Director to obtain any of her information concerning the Hall's functioning. 
Finally the election is not · "foolishness." What truly is foolish 
is to write an editorial opinion that 
is not substantiated by the facts. 
Patti Kampsen-Election -Com­mitt-ee Chairman 
Barbara McKiernan-Chairman SBG 
Ann Smith-Hall Life Com­missioner 
Joanne Garrett-Student Mfairs Commissioner 
/ Mary Jane Silvia-Regina Hall President 
Laurie Peeler-Regina Hall Vice­President 
~----------------~ ~----------------~ r-----------------~ r----------------­
an act of University vengence has been visited upon the heads of her students. To describe it in any other manner would be untrue. 
No one will argue that the previous guidelines on what was acceptable social behavior were vague and needed redefining. Nor will anyone argue thatthe spirit of the new guidelines offers hope that a system where by we as a com­munity can interact with one another could be obtained. What ·one must question is the wisdom of a system that alienates administrators from their students and provides some rectors an "easy out" in dealing with unwanted students. 
The four Sorin hall residents have received a depressing sentence. Depressing not so much for the actual punishment but rather for the lack of christian charity shown the ,,guilty,, persons by this University's foremost exponents on moral social leadership. A party is hardly an offense of large proportion; especially one that at­tempted to stay within university guidelines, and some compassion is in order. If not, might I suggest dusting off Y?ur copy of 1984, it may prove handy. 
Roderick Braye 

Thursday evening. The editorial 
was based on the vote breakdowns 
obtained from the election com­
mittel' of the four· previous elec­
tions, which appeared in Ob­
servers the day following each 
ballot. The difference appears to 
be in the interpretation of the 
figures. The writer was aware of 
customary election procedures. 
The Election Committee~would not 
release a vote breakdown or the 
number of abstentions 'for 
yesterday's election, .as it was 
"invalid.'; ·' 

Herding The. 

Sheep 

Editor: 
It seems appropriate to ·extend thanks to Mr. John Macheca, Mr. Arthur Pears, and Fr. James Burtchaell, our dearest and most beloved sheepherders, for deflining the atmosphere at Notre Dame. Despite the quizzical attempts of suddenly proclaiming the advent of Notre Dame as Christian community, our friendly white knights in black (and three piece) · satin have left the world of 1973 and returned to the legalism of pre­Christ, Old Testament times. The instances of the archetypal scapegoat are present in the Old Testament-and Sorin and Dillon halls. The absurdity of law alone as being necessary and sufficient and the irrelevance of exceptions and consequences, seems to capture the spirit of the cold-hearted, power-hungry true-blue legalist. 
It would seem, supposing Notre Dame is a Christian community (as we are led to believe), that the positive love concept of agape would be the directive of campus life. But it is not. The reaction of the sheeepherders from the Golden Tower is the negative eye­for-i!ye backlash of the iegalistic escape syndrome. But do not despair, sheep of Notre Dame, your four years here are an ex­cellent preparation for living with frustration, abuse, and repressive authority. Fr. Burtchaell's for­mal opening of the school year sermon issued a challenge to all faculty, rectors, and hall staff members to encourage the sheep to question, articulate, and discuss their values and beliefs. What challenge can exist when there is no room or freedom to expand and contract mentally, emotionally, and spiritually? Is not the basic precept of Jesus Christ love over law~ Where is the practical ap­plication of this precept of the Christian community? 
Remember Fr. Lilliy, that the . students who are being spanked now, literally and symbolically • are the future alumni who are given a soft pillow to ease tM past hurts of their Posteriors. Sheep­the choice is yours. 
Bob Kissel 



daanesbury
PINK 
YUP, 1H£Rc5 
WHAT's HE 8&RMVPA 


raarry trudeau
filAr's
5011&8001' 
WEARING? SI--IORTS ANP 
1AK£ ER

HIM!
!JOWN 1HER£, 
fJ{)(,(/N
HVGH Pt/PPI£5. 

the observer
HR. HARR/5. 
SKY-KING.
I 
\ I
I 

Night Editor: Joe Abell Asst. Night Editor: AI Rutherford Layout: Maria Gallagher, Celest Ponteri, Bill Brink Day Editor: Terry Keeney Picture Screener: Jerome Phillips Copyreader: Greg Rowinski Typists: Mary Romer, Steve Roper, H9war.d Halle, and others Compu!Jraphic Operator; Night Controller: T.J. Clinton 
One of the problems that Darby O'Gill, my suite mate and cocker spaniel, and I have never had to face until recently was that of adjusting our sleeping arrangements. As senior citizen and Darby's rector, I claimed the right to rest these middle-aged bones, when weary, on our bedroom's only bunk. Darby, although he would have preferred sharing the pillow, slept under the bed, where he could keep me awake all night with his snoring. · 
Recently, however, these simple domes'tic details were affected by the gift of a queen­size bed, presented to me on my birthday by the students of Keenan Hall. The poets write of the dismay they feel at the distance between the stars. Their feelings are almost euphoric compared_ with th!;! distress of Darby O'Gill as he looks from the side of my new bed ~o the great empty spaces of sheet that stretch between him and his sleeJ>ing kennel master. Forme:ly, he had only to place two paws on the side of the mattress, and his nose would be touching my nose; and after a little heavy breathing from him, that great doggy halitosis would accomplish its errand of awaking me. Now the bed is almost too tall for him, and intimacy and opport • .mity are destroyed by distance. He might as well be eyeing me from a distant room as he tries, with a paw thump on the bedding, to announce that the morning has come when he must go on errands to the ~hrubs and the grass. 
Even sadder, he has no place left to nap in that rector's bedroom; the great mattresses crowding close to the floor offer no hospitality to a little dog accustomed to using the overhang of the bedspread as his private tent. Once or twice, he offered to be my companion _in sleep; and stretching out my arms to the darkness, I would find Darby O'Gill as my bedfellow on those celibate sheets. With threats and ex­postulations, I drove him onto the floor again, a little ashamed of my selfishness, but thoroughly warned by the wisdom of Scripture; "He who sleeps with dogs shall rise with fleas." 
crisis in the household 
And so it is that students concerned about 
·an old man's comfort, have caused a crisis in the Keenan rector's household, though, as the phrase goes, I hardly seem to be losing any sleep over it. Yet I never go to bed at night without a thought for those whose rest will not be as peaceful as my own, whether it be Darby O'Gill trying to force his un­welcome little body into places where there are no resting places for him; or for the homeless waifs and derelicts in the cities that offer them no shelter; or for the students who cannot sleep because of the pressure o(studies, or who are sleepless because worry keeps them awake. For 
•

fancy footwork arilidst the ru1ns -richard Ill 
Richard Ill, Shakespeare's fast-paced history of one of England's bloodiest kings, is the season's opener, and a good one, for the Notre Dame-St. Mary's Theatre., Directed by Reginald Bain, Richard Ill features a cast of dozens and footwork to challenge any acrobat. 
ropes, posts and ramps 

Set design is by the ever-unconventional Richard Bergman. Bergman has flair, and although the set resembles the aftermath of the Trojan War, somehow it works. And work the actors do, too, ducking ropes, doging pos~ and treading ramps with ut­most grace and polish. It's fun just wat­ching the ordinary movements, but you'll be sitting on the edge of your seat during that -fencing scene! Our hearty congratulations to Albert Soens, choreographer of that very fine sword battle. Also, a special salute to any cast member who got through rehearsals sans twisted ankles, bruised shins and so forth. 
limping with vigor 
Altho!lgh everyone makes it look easy, the 
greatest athlete of them all has got to be and flying across that ruin of a stage with all Chris Ceraso, taking the part of the diabolical Richard. Ceraso puts in amost vigorous performance, bounding, jumping the dexterity of a ballet dancer. Such movements are hard enough with all" a man's faculties, but Ceraso maintains throughout the play a character limp and withered arm historically attributed to the evil king. Crafty, urbane, and wicked, Ceraso's portrait falls perhaps a tiny bit short of the larger-than-life picture we expect of Richard, but Ceraso-has provided us with an intelligent, thinking villain. Most remebered for his role last fall as Berenger in The Killer, Ceraso has no trouble holding our attention whether in the midst of that sometimes crowded stage or sharing his' 
schemes in one  of  those powerful  
soliloquoys.  
· stately sobs  

Another potent force in the play is Queen Elizabeth, skillfully played by Helen Fricker. Miss Fricker is a familiar face to campus audiences, but this is probably the most demanding role she has had yet. However Miss Fricker meets the challenge 


__...... _ -_.. _.. --... ...... .o.L--a...----.--.. Friday, October 12, 1973.____t_h_e_o_b_s_e_r_v_e_r____7 

Letters Ta R Lanely Gad 


the birthday gift 

reverend rabert r:~riffin 
these, in the phrase of Lear's, "I'll pray, and then I'll sleep." 
flowered sheets and playing fields 

Even with night prayers, I am not sure I can ever be entirely comfortable, living with my birthday gift. There is too much luxury here, too little of the discipline of the Cross. Such a bed invites too much exercise of the imagination. Once upon a time, I sat 
.in a New York restaurant and ordered an expensive meal; then I stared for a while at an empty chair across from me, thinking of people with whom I would have liked to share the meal. Finally, when the food came, I had no appetite to eat because I felt so alone. _ . The emptiness of a half-used bed is as melancholoy as that vacant chair was. It teases one with a loneliness that he thought 
. he had learned to deal with, and the temptations suddenly seem too strong for ~elibacy to endure. A bed such as mine seems intended for the betting of progeny. Dynasties should be founded on those mattresses; and in later years, grand­children should sleep there, snug in their place of heritage on a bed where married love has created family life. It seems theologically indiscreet for a monk to be bedded down on flowered sheets (a part of the birthday gift) that invite the singing of epithalamiums. Special graces of stat· seem needed before one can purdently mov• from the solitary slumbers of a single bed t• the tufted comfort of mattresses invitin. connubial consummation, in a place of froli as wide as the playing fields of Eton. 
queen-size craftsman 
But despite all such misgivings, and eve• without the priveliges of the bridegroom, I am now participating in one of the aJ · chetypal experiences through owning a be· worthy of a patriarch. For the rest of m life, I shall rest there in the late nigt shadows, and rise in laughter with the sur And my bed shall be to me like a wife wh·, is a partner to weariness, terror, or grief. I shall be a nurse to my sickness, and comfort to my pain. It will be the mother r my dreams, and a craftsman mending a my broken hopes. 
Finally, in the end, it will be the plac where I will meet the friendly stranger fror the road to Emmaux,and together we wi . walk to our Father's house. 
There, in the presence of saints an apostles, I will accept the forgiveness of m. little Darby O'Gill for all the times h he ha to sleep upon the floor. I shall hear hir, saying in the gestures of nose and paw: " never said I didn't love you." 
I will answer: "I never said I didn't lov you either, Master Darby O'Gill." 


superbly. As Elizabeth she is shrewd, subtle and yet dramatic, never overdoing the sobs and always sutaining the stateliness we expect of England's queen. 
In the role of the clever, slick and witty Duke of Buckingham is Mark Swiney, doing what Swiney does best, being clever, slick and witty. There is no doubt Swiney is well­suited to such roles--and he does a fine ·> with this one--but after so many of them "we begin to wonder if he can do anything else! 
going overboard 

It's easy to go overboard in doing Shakespeare, but most of Bain's cast suc­cessfully avoids overacting. Ralph Bruneau, as the Duke of Clarence, is very good in scenes that are sheer melodrama. Dan Dailey as the gentle Hastings makes acting look like child's play, so poised and confident is he. And speaking of children, our praises go out to first-timer Reginald Bain, Jr. who captures our hearts as the doomed young son of Edward IV. 
The list of good performances goes on forever but particular mention must be made of Lisa Anne Colaluca, Kathy Burke, Diana Shaheen, Ted Kerin and Cliff Fetters as the witless murderers, John Dunn and William McGlinn. 
As to the garb.of the vast-cast, don't.waste )lOUr .hmt> tr.y.ing to figure out what period it 
---~----------------------­
kathy schwille 
is, for it really isn't any. While periot c_ostumes certainly aren't necessary, w• fmd the players' outfits not quite measurint up in imagination to the artistry of theiJ performances of the whimsy of Bergman'! set. 
But don't be deterred, see Richard Illthi~ weekend. A word to the wise is get then early. O'Laughlin is not an ideal theatn sound-wise and Shakespeare is, well Shakespeare._ S~ make reservations, get c. good sea.t1 and sit-back· and enjoy. 

r; '~;#ff::'"~l_. .II~'· .,., '.' .',~~··~' ... ,~. ·• 
~ ~
• • • ....... --• .. • -• • • • 0 • -• • • • • •• • • • •••••• " " ........ " " ..... .. •• , • "-{ 
the observer Friday, October 12. 1973
8 







Lightfoot calls for restructuring 

Lightfoot 
Readiness is important word 
Overdone religion is ,. confusing young minds
' 
By LOUIS CASSELS 
United Press International 
Don't try to teach your child 
too much about God too soon. 
I If you confront him with religious dogmas before he is
>I 
\ able to comprehend them, you will not merely confuse him. 


You may set up mental blocks that will severely hinder his subsequent religious education. 
That counsel comes from Sister Marjorie Gilbert, a nun of the Holy Child Order who teaches at Oak Knoll School, Summit, N.J. She has written an extremely helpful booklet for parents, entitled "Faith at an Early Age." It can be obtained for 95 cents a copy from the Claretian Fathers, 221 West Madison St., Chicago, Ill. 
"Between the two extremes of too much religious training and no religious training, no religious would be better," says Sister Marjorie Gilbert. "Readi­ness is the important word." 
Until a boy or girl is about 9 years old, parents should "play a waiting game." Do the things that are appropriate to your child's level of development ... but don't rush into catechetical instruction that will be mean­ingless or worse. 
Here are some of the things that Sister Marjorie Gilbert says parents CAN do to help a young child "develop religious 
readiness":  
-Help  the  child  to  develop  
reverence  for  life,  in  himself  
and others.  

-Facilitate his appreciation of nature. "Here, an adult simply has to get out of the child's way, for a child turns toward nature as a flower toward the sun. Children see the sunlight, feel the breeze, hear the leaves rustling, smell the dampness, taste the rain." 
-Assist the child in develop­ing a sense of responsibility. "Within a child's capacity, depending more on the stage of devel9pmeqt than on • age ·alo~e, expec~ hill} to· put thiilgs 'back 
by Kurt Hein~ Staff Reporter 
Describing American govern­ment as a concealed form of dic­tatorship, Claude M. Lightfoot called for a restructuring of the political system in the United States last night before a crowd of 50 people at the Galvin Life Sciences Center. 
Lightfoot, a member of the American Communist Party and a participant in the Black Liberation movement for 47 years, declared that Watergate has made the "invisible government of the United States visible." 
Speaking very emotionally and shouting throughout much of his speech, Lightfoot outlined the historical nature of Watergate and what it reveals, talked about fascist trends of and before Nixon, and called for a new constitution and structure of government. 
Lightfoot saw Watergate as a turning point in American history comparable in signigicance to the Revolution or the Civil War. He said that Watergate revealed that the American people are powerless. 
where they belong and to respect the property of others. Also expect him to cooperate." 
-Let the child learn natural­ly to acknowledge the place of God in his life. This can be done particularly well through offeri'ng prayers of thanksgiv­ing before meals and at other times. "Prayers of thanksgiv­ing impress upon boys and girls 
Head plumber indicted by jury 
_.. ·· 
WASHINGTON UPI A federal grand jury Thursday indicted Egil "Bud" Krogh Jr., former presidential aide who headed the so-called White House plumbers, on two counts of per­jury. 
The foreman of a federal grand jury delivered to Chief U.S. District Judge John J. Sirica an indictment charging in one count that Krogh made "false material declarations" before the Watergate grand jury Aug. 28. 1972. 
The r-nd charge in the in­dictment concerns statements by Krogh on the same day about activities o.f G. Gordon Liddy, later convicted as a mastermind of the break-in of Democratic national headquarters at the Watergate complex in Washington. 
Conviction on each count carries a maximum penalty of five years imprisonment and a $10,000 fine. 
r~u•mi.MIN.IIIH.III!··-Iliii·JI·IMI• 

jiITI1~3J2J ~ J 
!J MISHAWAKA 4VfNUf AT lOTH 
NOW SHOWING Roger Moore as James Bond in "Live and Let Die" 
., •" .. 'call' 288-'U88 'fOr' tim~ .I .' ·': 
• •• ·' ·•.·• ·a'nd 'dlr'l!ttlOriS: ·.. · . .·'. •, ._ 

"Watergate shows that our nation is the most hypocritical nation that has ever graced the earth, " he said. "The verdict is that no matter who wins or loses big business will always rule. You got power? You got Democracy? You fight $60 million." he said. 
Lightfoot claimed that after he extensively researched Nazi Germany, he came away quite fearful of the United States' future. 
He said that "the United States has been on and advanced path towards a fascist police state." 
"We have had fascist trends since the Cold War," he suggested. "Truman began it with his man­datory loyalty oath and Nixon has escalated it beyond the wildest dreams of Truman. This fascism takes the form of vesting all of the power in hands of the President." 
Lightfoot cited the conduct of the wars without Congressional permission, the impoundment of Congressionally approved funds and the establishment of a super spy system as example of this encroaching fascism. 
Lightfoot said that the invisible Presidency began in the Eisenhower administration "when 
the love God has for them and His concern for them." But prayers of petition at too early an age can be dangerous. They "lead to all sorts of misunder­standings." Such as when a child asks why he didn't get the new bicycle he prayed for. 
-Introduce a child to Jesus Christ "but without formal doctrine or catechetics." Bible stories about Jesus "are a beautiful introduction." 
Finally, says Sister Marjorie Gilbert, "don't confuse children with half-hearted responses or double-talk. Be direct with them and don't feel that you must come up with an answer for everything. When adults are not sure of something, children are better off hearing that truth rather than some formula that is passed off to them. It doesn't bother children when they don't get full and complete answers. But it does disturb them when adults hedge their answers and try to hoodwink them." 

Applications will be accepted 
Friday & Monday lor the position of Observer News Editor 
drop application off at the · ... ,·~ .....·.,_.· ··-Obse·---·er·off·.~e-··· ·.
J(,,., -·~ ,.......... -WJW' -.'{.... ' ~ .'_·_~.~, I'C·..·-1>f'.'''!' ,_.,, 
·' ..~------~·--~~-----·~·~·-~~~~~~-·~:-·~·~~·~-~~-----·~·~·--~·~-~·~·~·~·~·~·~1·~·~:~--·~·~·~·-·..J
..... 

for all practical purposes Sherman Adams ran the country." He called Nixon's power "un­precedented in the history of the United States." 
Calling himself a realist, Lightfoot admitted that America was not ready to accept major changes in their form of govern­ment. He said that many reforms will come out of Watergate, but was pessimistic as to any positive effect they might have. 
He claimed that the American System has been corrupt since the founding fathers. 'What we have is a concealed dictatorship;" he said. 
"Today's democracy is a farce. Too much power is held by people who are not responsible to anyone. Most of the power is held by the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court is nothing more that nine old men. Yet they have the final say and have always ruled in favor big business," he said. 
Lightfoot proposed that some type of new system should be set up so that the executive and judicial branches are subservient to the legislative branch, which is closest to the people. 
Lightfoot said he does not know how he would precisely go about this restructuring, but said that America ought to seriously think about it especially in light of the Watergate developments. 


PASTEL PORTRAITS 
a unique gift 
from color photos 

PICTURE FRAMING 
reasonably priced 

ERICA'S 
on the balcony of 
Thieves Market 2309 E. Edison Sat. and Sun. 10-6 
HOUISr 
MOM • TUES • TIM -.., 'AM.S.»M 
WID • SAT 9 AM 12 NOON COMPI.BE SPeC'ACLI 
SRVICE ALL E'I'E Ott"S PIESCRIPTIONS HOHOIK 
RoGERS 



Optical e..!! 
2.89-7809
aeon ATWELl • OWNH 
Start your v..eekend at ... 

Bulla Shed 
( Corner of Bulla and Juniper across from Grace Tower) 
r ....."!' 
.
.-··..: 
. 
..-.·~ 

MASS AND DINNER Friday 5:00 p.m! 



IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIHIIIIIIHIIIHIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIDIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
Full Text of Liquor Guidelines 
This new rule replaces University rule number 7 on page 27 of the University of Notre Dame Student Manual, 1972-73, by vote of the Student Life Council, September 26, 1973. 
The use of alcoholic beverages in moderation is accepted at this university. 
Alcohol may be consumed in private rooms in the residence halls and in other rooms in the halls but only in accord with guidelines established by the Of(ic!! of Student Affairs and approved by the Student Life Council. A small, private room obviously does not have the facilities to hold many people, nor can larger parties in living areas of the halls without proper planning remain isolated enough to respect the rights of other residents. 
Students are· prohibited from possessing or consuming alcoholic beverages elsewhere on campus, either on the grounds of the campus or in the non-residential campus facilities, without the 'permission of the Dean of Students. 
We must challenge one another to find more creative ways of socializing. When people come together the use of alcohol must always be secondary to their personai interaction. 
Because residence halls are integral to the academic objectives of the University community they can be expected to provide both the facilities and atmosphere necessary f9r st!Jdents to study. Therefore, the atmosphere 
1 within a residence hall should always reflect a commitment to the academic purposes of the university. At this University it is also important that all residence hall activities reflect not only the academic nature of the institution but also provide lor the full con­sideration of Notre Dame as a Christian community in which the human dignity of every person is always accorded the highest esteem. Programs can be developed lor the residence hall community which can serve to facilitate the realization of these educational objectives. Hall programming is a responsibility of the hall staff and interested student leaders who by sharing their creativity and understanding of student development can be expected to arrange and sponsor activities that are fully com­plementary to and supportive of the educational objectives ascribed to residence halls. 
Alcohol in Halls 
Residence hall stall and students can further the realization of the hall's educational objectives by working cooperatively to plan and supervise those programs in the hall at which students will consume alcoholic beverages. It is in planning lor its proper use, in the personal tnteractions and exchanges that result from tl)e activity at which it is being used, in giving full realization to the potential for abuse, and by recognizing that in all situations and lor each person the consumption of alcoholic beverages must be limited so that the dignity of both the individual and the activity can be preserved, that educative benefit for each participant can be maximized. 
In Individual Rooms 
Situations occur where individuals or small, natural groupings of students, such as roommates· or suitemates or their guests, may use alcohol as part of lhe normal course of their activities. For I he most part such situations will be 
' 
confined to the private rooms. The numbers of persons involved will be limited by the physical ac­commodations of the student room. In cases where the noise level becomes such as to interfere with the atmosphere of the hall, the situation has outgrown thiS Since the input of hall staff is unlikely, the student p-articipants must assume responsibility for governing their behavior. At the same time, it is im­portant that all members of the com­munity display a sincere concern for those who by their inability to maturely use alcohol may be exhibiting amore serious persona problem. 
Larger Group Gatherings 
Larger group gatherings include all situations in which the theme of gathering or the number of participants removes it from the individual or roommate--suitemate-.gatherning. Any event that because of the numbers of people involved and because of the noise that is generated has to extend beyond lhe normal boundaries of a private room or suite is considered a larger group gathering. For example: 
A. When the purpose of the gathering is to promote an academic or cultural program or when the objective is to promote the spirit of hall fellowship, i.e. hall or section dinners, formal recep­tions, and discussion groups. 
' 

B. When the purpose of the gathering is to promote social interaction, and Christmas or St. Patrick's Day parties. 
C. When the purpose of the gathering results spontaneously, i.e. victory by an athletic team. 
Role of Hall Staff 

The active involvement of the rector of the residence hall is necessary if any 
larger group gathering is to occur anywhere within the residence hall for it is a responsibility of the rectors to translate into instructional action the educational objectives of the Student Affairs department. In each situation where a larger group gathering is being considered by students, the students have the responsibility of informing the rector at a time early enough in the process so as to provide adequate op· portunity for full input. 
Although specific procedures may vary among the halls, consideration must be given to these topic areas: 
A. The Theme and Quality of the Gathering. 
The nature and purpose of the party must be clearly discussed and agreed upon. The type and amount of food and beverages must be discussed and caution taken so that these items complement the theme. It would also be appropriate to discuss the size of the gathering in terms of numbers of people that would be invited. 
B. Location of the Larger Group Gathering. 
The areas of the hall that provide the student living quarters were designed for study and limited social interaction. Appropriately then, under some cir· cumstances these areas could be used as lhe location for a larger group gathering. However, situations which would necessitate that the corridor area of a section be blocked off, and the space designated a party room, without giving lull consideration to the educational 
objectives of the residence halls and the rights of all hall residents is not an appropriate use of the student living quarters. 
C. Identification of the Principal Sponsors 
The student group sponsoring a larger group gathering should indicate the persons responsible for each aspect of the activity. 
In addition to the above recom· mendations, the following policies will be consistently observed among all of the residence halls: 
A. Approval 
By granting the approval necessary before any larger !)roup gathering can occur anywhere within the hall, the rector is expressing the willingness of the hall staff to work cooperatively with the sponsors of the gathering. The rector will refuse to aprove any proposed gathering that does not complement the educational objectives of the Student Affairs department or the objectives that are specific to the ed6cational program of the particular residence hall. In situations where the student sponsors are not offering their full cooperation or are unwilling to accept reasonable responsibility tor the planning and management of the gathering, approval must be refused. 
Larger group gatherings that occur without the prior approval of the rector are in violation of University rules. 
The rector will inform the Dean of Students of the actions taken on all 
requests at least three days prior to the scheduled date of the proposed larger group gathering. 
B. Staff Involvement in the Management of the Gatherings 
The rector will be actively involved in all stages of the gathering prior to its aclUal occurrence. At the minimum, the resident assistant on duty when the event is taking place will periodically visit the function and discuss its progress with the responsible student sponsor. The resident assistant on duty will also be available on an on-call basis throughout the time period that the gathering is in progress. It is the right and responsibility of the student sponsors and the hall staff present to disband gatherings which violate either the spirit or letter of the guidelines. 
C. Recreational Facilities 
Residence halls that have recreational areas may not open those areas to groups from outside that hall for use as a place to hold a larger group gathering. The Hall Council may wish to establish a schedule and procedure for reserving recreational areas within the hall. 
D. Advertising and For Profit Gatherings 
Larger group gatherings should be by invitation in a manner agreed upon by the hall rector and student sponsor. However, it is not appropriate to post announcements advertising the event. In order to control :he size of the gathering, the student sponsors will initiate and supervise a practical method of admitting guests. 
While hall councils may wish to conduct such events in a manner that will insure a profit to the hall, no in­
. dividual or group of individuals may derive a financial profit from such events. 
E. Time Limitations 
Larger group gatherings that have as the primary purpose to promote social interaction should normally be held on either Friday or Saturday nights. Larger group gatherings may not be held in the halls during vacation periods when classes are in recess. 

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJ11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111IIiIIIIIIIIIn11111111111111111111111111111111 

Parties •• )changed· atznosphere 
by David Lee alcohol being of minimal im-Staff Reporter porta'nce. 
No problems are foreseen in any 
With the advent of the new liquor of this weekends parties by the hall 
guidelines set by the SLC, this presidents. Most seem very op­
weekend's parties will be ex-timistic about future social life at 
perienced in a different at-ND, too. 
mosphere from those in previous One hall president commented 
weekends. According to various that the new guidelines will force 
hall presidents, parties are ex-students to plan their parties. 
pected in Grace, Breen-Phillips, Consequently the problem of 
Sorin, Badin and Dillon halls, and poorly organized parties will be 
possibly others. eliminated. 
Most of these parties will be of a Another hall president stated 
small, private nature, with very that the guidelines will create 
limited alcohol consumption. more dialogue between the hall 
However, the emphasis of the new leaders, students, RAs and hall 
liquor guidelines leans more rectors. There will be a spirit of 
toward the extension of the cooperation and understanding 
"Christian community" in parties ·between the hall authorities and 
rather than just the limitation of residents, he added. 
drinking. Also voiced was the problem of 
The guidelines focus on the Indian state drinking Jaws. By "human dignity of every person." putting these liquor guidelines proper authorization. This alleviates the pressues of state drinking restrictions on the University, he suggested. 
Concerning student opinion the hall presidents generally agreed that most students view the party guidelines with mixed feelings. 
The presidents agreed that the damages caused by drunkenness must be stopped. 
Many students seem offended by the stand that the administration is taking on parties and general 
alcohol consumption, they added. 
However, another general reaction to the new social guidelines is one of confusion and misunderstanding. Students are reacting negatively to the new guidelines because they are unaware of or unclear on exactly what these guidelines are, some suggested. 

The guid_elines challeng~ party-}\ow.n. Qn p~pe~,.;one_ ?aJ! .pr~}Q-4fn.l,·., .·.1 ,.~ kn...;;...this feeling will not be goers~to fmd "more creative ways~~t (;.Jill! :.J~versft~\~-ur;,e!l.,\~ •.;. ~·~~. '"!';.~· of soCializing," with -~~,use of stu~ents. t?.a~; t,h~!r. ~r\i~ .~a,v~ •• prest!ot aftet tbis.week.end. . ,••. 
... .. .. ... .'\ ·.. 
Friday, October 12, 1973 the observer 
9 

LAKESIDE THEATRE PRESENTS 

HONOR BLACKMAN FRANCO NERO in D.H. Lawrence's 
The Virgin and the Gypsy 

Friday, Oct. 12 8 and 10 pm Holy Cross Aud. Rated R 

-~~ Bring your sick, 

damaged hair to the Windjammer crew. Our expert barber-stylists will .~ put you on the hair-care 
-...._­
program that best fits your 
needs. 

Now open Monday thru Saturday 




Ohe WirW.fammer 
· All Services by Appointment 1637 Lincoln Way West Phone 232-6622 
-


SPECIAL RATE
ND 
ALL FOUR PLAYS 
Student -Faculty ND-5MC Staff 

SMC 
$5.50

THEATRE 
SEASON 1973-74 

RICHARD III 
Shakespeare's bold history Oct.9, 10, 11, 12, 13at8:30p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium (St. Mary's} 

Thieves' Carnival 
Jean Anouilh's merry masquerade Dec. 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 at 8:30p.m. Washington Hall (Notre Dame) 

THE HOMECOMING 

Harold Pinter's disturbing, bizarre comedy Mar. 26, 27, 28, 29, 30 at 8:30p.m. Washington Hall (Notre Dame} 

John Gay's ribald musical romp Apr. 26, 27, May 2, 3, 4 at 8:30p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium (St. Mary's) 

Name .......................................................................................... .. 
Address. ........................................................................................ . City ................................... State........................... Zip ................ . Please send ............... subscriptions at (circle price) 
. l$5.50 Totals ................................................................ .. Indicate data choice for each play: 
RICHARD ................................... CARNIVAL .......................... . HOMECOMING ........................... OPERA .................................. . 
I 4 

----------------------------------------------------------~------------------------------------­
4 . '·
' . II
'';til:.'''·',,,
' ..~ ..................................... ~·····················"'-,. 
·'t .... 
~· ~

' ,.,_... ·~ •. ....,._.. .,. . ~··· ........ ,.,, .,. .....,... 1
t 10 the observer Friday, October 12, 1973 . •• "• • .... ~--t'r.. /'.•,',"t ·.•. ,.~-' '·''·'"·' '•'"""''• i-'...."e. 

~ Film series successful 
•
( ' ' The Bard's· popularity 1ncreases 
') 
by Claude Devaney
\ 
Staff Reporter 
~ 
William Shakespeare is making
~ his presence as an artist felt this semester at Notre Dame. This semester's "Shakespeare Film
~ Series" is a tremendous success.
'· Some people have made the comment that it is a very amazing thing that Shakespeare would be so 
~ popular. The film series has had overflow crowds. The play is the
~­
first of its kind in almost five years, giving the impression to some people that Notre Dame students are becoming more in­1 tellectually orientated. ( A closer look reveals that this statement is unfair to the student body. The appeal of Shakespeare is nothing new. Paul Rathburn, who organized the ~ilm series, said that although the films were free, people turned outl) 
J Escape in Phoenix < l related by Barnard 
'continued from page 3)
\ 
I ~ 
Jbserver: Did you eat at all that 
1 \ 
'ay? 
1 
3arnard: Yes, I almost forgot bout that. Wednesday, at noon, at I he second motel, he told me to go own to the motel restaurant, eat mch and be seen. I don't know hy. I thought that he might have een making phone calls or 
l 
omething. 'bserver: How long did you stay t this second motel? l~ larnard: We left at dusk, around ­:30, and walked about five miles 
o the northern edge of the city. 'l;lere was a park up there called quaw Peak Park. The park was 
1 a canyon surrounded by a umber of different mountain eaks. We went up the back of one f these mountains that was .verlooking this park area. He 
mew a trail and told me exactly here to go and followed very lose behind me. It was dark by le time we got there. We went up > the top and stayed there the ight. I slept occasionally, but it asn't easv among the rocks. 
in past years when it cost money. 
He said, "The turnout is sur­prising but not as surprising as some think." He knew beforehand there would be great audience appeal because of past experience, but felt other things would keep really huge crowds away. 
Rathburn, an assistant professor of English, teaches Shakespeare. He has observed that Shakespeare courses close early. There has been enthusiasm all along for Shakespeare. No matter what .other factors there are he said "fundamentally the ~ppeal i~ 
Shakespeare . " He went on to explain the reason for the appeal. 
The comedies are appealing to the ·students according to Rath­burn, because their subject matter is about young people roughly the age of the audience. These characters are caught in various stages of flirtation, love and 

1bserver: Did you stay there the jpolice and ambulance. ext day, Thursday? Observer: Did the Phoenix police :arnard: Yes. The next day when ·make an effort to pursue your ab­le sun came up, he positioned me 1 ductor? 1 such a way that I could be seen 'Barnard: Not really. The police v him, and he could see the park picked me up as an injury case. By 
·ea; but we could not be seen by the time they got the full impact of eople on the mountain across the the story and found that the FBI in >ad from us. In fact, there were five states were looking for me, a 1ree main areas where we stayed number of hours had passed. He ·om Wednesday night to Friday certainly had more than enough 10rning. Each was shaded from time to get away, especially since 1e sun at different times of the he appeared to know the area. ay, and they were all relatively Observer: Do you have any idea esolate places where he could how the FBI got so far off your eep an eye on me and still keep an track.? ye on the park. From daybreak Barnard: Evidently, some of the hursday until Friday noon when I things Continental Airlines did ;caped, he kept pretty close tabs and said led the FBI to beleive that 1 what was going on in the park. 
t occurred to me that he was (continued on_page 11) 
down a rugged area to one of the resting areas we were using when he slipped. I turned and threw a rock at him but didn't even wait to see ff it hit him. I started running for the park area and the people, which I considered safety. I was pretty much convinced by this time that if there was an ac­complice, something had gone wrong for them. After all, he hadn't contacted him ·since Wednesday afternoon, if then. I kept running down the mountain among loose rocks until I got to a well-defined trail and was able to pull the gag out of my mouth. I started yelling for help but I don't remember what I was yelling. I got to an area where I was finally seen by the people below. I would say it was about a thousand feet down a fairly steep field. I got about two thirds of the way down when I tripped and fell in some rocks. There were no serious in­juries but I was knocked half unconscious. I was somewhat delerious when the people below finally found me and called the 
courtship. 

"The tragedies are stories that end in death, and are filled with individual moral dilemmas, and psychological problems of the individual in relation to family, friends, state and God." he said. The student has relations to family, friends, state and God also. 
The histories are fascinating in that their subject matter is "contemporary." The subject is political cannibalism and national disillusionment, and to study them is to see our own times, according to Rathburn. 
He said that Shakespeare must be approached both intellectually and emotionally, and from his experience, he has found Notre Dame students do this. "They knew Shakespeare is worth going to see," he added. 
This week there is the added dimension of the presentation of Richard III by the ND-SMC Theatre. The play is continuingthis weekend. 
Reginald Bain, who is directing the play, said that he felt a great need to do a Shakespearean play simply because one hadn't been 
Peron returns to presidency 
BUENOS AIRES <UPO­Once again Juan D. Peron, 78, assumes the .,.residency of Argentina Friday,· taking the final step in an 18-year climb back to power. His third wife, Isabel, 40, will swear in as vice president, the highest office ever neld by a woman in the Americas to date. 
Friday's austere and securi­ty-conscious inauguration ceremonies seem anti-climatic for the man, who was forced to flee into exile by a military coup in 1955, after ruling with an iron hand for 10 years. 
Peron will wear his general's uniform for the first time in 18 years when he is sworn in. 
After taking the oath of office. before Congress, the Perons will go directly to the presiden­tial Casa Rosada, without making an inaugural address. In the Casa Rosada, Peron will receive the presidential baton and sash from the interim president, Raul A. Lastiri. 
Lastiri, head of the Chamber of Deputies, became provisional president when Hector Cam· pora resigned to allow new elections to restore the presi­dency to Peron. 
plun nj n~ a "('(kli n~'? 
11 

(':\ TIK' 234-5822 \\t•(kl jng Photo~raph(T 234-!>822 MICHAEL LONIER =~ ~.Y-_ 
~--grapnte 09Sign 

after 18 years 

SMC COFFEEHOUSE John Salveson David Shaheen (and friends} Rick Walters Tony Amenta FRI. NIGHT (tonight!) 9 p.m.-1 :30 a.m beneath cafeteria munchies oodies  
THE ND-SMC THEATRE TRYOUTS-October 15 and 16 at 7 P.M. Jean Anouilh's THIEVES' CARNIVAL WASHINGTON HALL (.NOTRE DAME) (use back entrance) CInformation on tryouts may be obtained from Speech and Drama Department office, Room 110, Moreau Hall, St. Mary's) CALLBACKS -October 17 OPEN TO ALL ND-SMC STUDENTS  




W~t Clrulunial
i 
­

I Jfanrakt ~ou.st 
"Enjoy a snack or dinner" 
35 Varieties of Pancakes Chicken -Steak -Sandwiches 
Bob Edwards '50 
notre dame concerts -Student Union presents 
an evening with 



Paul Simon 

TICKET SALE MONDAY AT STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE AND ACC TICKET OFFICE 
(GATE 10) 
Out of respect for the artist no one wi II be sea ted ol"\ce the performance has begun. 
done for almost five years. The reason for this was because other types and periods of plays were done to give variety. The drama student is given a sample of both classical and contemporary plays he said. ' 
Bain, who is also chairman of the Speech and Drama department said the basic criteria for selecting a play was to create exciting theatre. "It must be someting to observe and to respond to," he said, and he felt that Richard II fulfills these needs . 
Bain added that plays should provide educatioll@l theatre for both the aUdience aRd tbM stu"egt actors. He felt this play does this.i 
Rathburn 


aiting for someone, but I don't ·--~~•,~-~N--II!i~!!!!)~--~~~----iiiiiiiiii&.
1

•now for sure. 
Observer: Did you sleep on the mountain again that night?Harnard: We didn'1 get 1oo much sleep that night. Late
.nat night we walked down a few thousand feet to the park area : tself and got !>orne soda cans from the garbage and filled them with water. We took a drink of water which was my first drink in 36 hours. We then climbed back up the mountain with the water. Also, that night, he had me take my shirt off, and he ripped both sleeves off. He used one to gag me and later used the other to carry the cans of water with. 
Observer:. How did you escape 
Friday? Barnard~ Finally, around 
:r: 
L­
r-
SMC 
. 


TH.EATRE 
SEASON 1973-74 
reservations 
284-4176 
Student -Faculty ND-5MC Staff $1.50 


Richard III 
Shakespeare's bold history Oct.9,10,11,12,13at8:30pm O'Laughlin A"'ditorium (St. Mary's) 

noon Friday, we were moving ••••·-~--·----------~-~----•
.-"' 


Friday, October 12, 1973 the observer 1 1 
(continued from page 10) 
we were on flight to Colorado Springs, so they were checking that out. They wereeven checking out Los Angeles because the flight continued to there. Observer: How did you get home? Barnard: My father and my wife came and got me Friday night and we left Phoenix Saturday morning. Observer: Was there ever any indication made to you that you might be held for a ransom? Barnard: No, and I never thought about it very seriously. I thought that if he was going to make a ransom, Phoenix would not be the place to do it. It is a little difficult to do that by long distance, even if he did have an accomplice. I dodn't know for sure, but I think tran­sportation was his .motive. Observer: Did you think that you might be going somewhere else, then? . Barnard: Well, he thought of going to Colorado Springs first. I don't know how serious that was, but there was always the possiblity that he would again want to go there. And there's some in­dications from some leads the FBI have that Colorado Springs might, in fact, be a place where a possible suspect might have some interest. There is nothing conclusive, however. Observer: You didn't seem to be too afraid of this man. Were you? Barnard: Not really. Right up until the time when I escaped, I was not in any great fear for my life. I thought from the beginning that he had some use for me. He could have, after all, done away with me any time. Observer: Assuming you meant murder by that last comment, do you think he was capable of that? Barnard: Yes, I think he was capable of murder. I don't know what I base that on, other than just his looks, a few things he said, and his manner. I think he would be very agressive or vicious if provoked. He seemed powerful underneath his quiet surface. Observer: Could you describe him? Barnard: He was about 30, six teet tall, and had a dark complexion with very short dark hair. He had no particular tattos, scars, or 
distinguishing marks that I could see. He had a slender, but muscular build and was wearing plain, dark clothes. Observer: Does the FBI think this whole matter could just be a hoax? Barnard: Well, there is still the possibility that it's a hoax, but they're not proceeding under that assumption. Since it is such an unbelievable story, they are retaining the possiblity that it could have been a hoax, that I made it up, that I might have gone temporarily insane, or any number of possibilities that are just as rational as this irrational story. I've been telling people for two weeks I wish I could make up a more believable story than telling the truth. Observer: Has anyone suggested a lie detector test? Barnard: Yes. In order to convince the Mishawaka police and exonerate myself, I originally agreed to take a lie detector test last Friday under the auspices of the Mishawaka police. It was to be administered by the Goshen police since they have the equipment and personnel. On Thursday, however, it was mutuallly decided by the Mishawaka police and by me, without an attorney that other courses of the investigation would be better pursued first, and the lie detector test was postponed. Contrary to an earlier report, I don't have any legal or medicinal assistance and haven't had any 
FBI continues to consider Barnard story as 'a hoax' 
since I've gotten back. That's It seems that an employee of his where it stands now. I will take the mysteriously disappeared a few test at a later date. I certainly days before this happened. The want to take it because I know it FBI has all the information about will clear up any doubt that they this new man and is now followingmight have. The FBI, however, has up the lead. not wanted the test and are still Observer: Is there anything else 
pursuing other courses of their you can tell us about this new lead? investigation. Barnard: No, as far as I know Observer: Have you had any there isn't an awful lot known problems with returning at school? about him or his past yet. I don't Barnard: Just the usual, I know howfruitful this new lead will returned to school for a while on be. It's very interesting, though. 
the Tuesday after I came home Evidently, there were a few things and started classes on Wednesday. this person had done and said that I'm mostly interested in just led his employer to believe that it getting back into the routine. might be the kidnapper. Observer: Have there been any Observer: Were there any im­
recent developments in the case? portant developments before this 
Barnard: Yes, as a matter of fact one? there has. I talked to the FBI Barnard: The FBI has not been in Monday. There was a very strange touch with me daily so I'm not occurence today. A gentleman sure. They have some leads from from Chicago called and said that Phoenix. There's a lot of things the physical description and a few they're working on and running other things mentioned about the down, but as far as I know, nothing kidnapper in the Chicago papers of any great substance. They still seemed somewhat familiar to him. don't have a name. 
Ill

$ (!!!) ROAD RACING AT ITS BEST By The Lights A.sd Under The Sun INDIANAPOLIS RACEWAY PARK B. F. GOODRICH BABY GRAND OCTOBER 13 5-8 PM -$4 CAMEL GT OCTOBER 14 2-5 PM-$6 PORSCHE PARK AND CORVETTE CORRAL ----------------------­WEEKEND PACKAGE.$1 ooo PI:US FREE CAMPING ON THE GROUNDS $1oo Discount on $1Qoo Ticket With This Ad At The Gate TAKE 1-465 TO SPEEDWAY-CLERMONT EXIT­GO 5 MILES WEST ON U.S. 136. IRP---IMSA '73  
MAIN CHURCH SUNDAY MASSES 5:15pm Sat. Fr. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 9:30am Sun. Fr. Edward Malloy, C.S.C. 10:45 am Sun. Fr. Carl Dehne, S.J. 12:15 pm Sun. Fr. William Toohey, C.S.C. Evensong 4:30 pm Lady Chapel  
Investigate Upper Division and Graduate Study in Monterey 130 Miles South of S.n Fr•ncisco Monterey Institute of Foreign Studies A private liberal arts college granting BA, MATeaching Credentials,1 Certificate in Translation and Interpretation. Langu•ges and Education CivilizationsHistory lr• ·r'111tional Economics Arabic* Chineseand M•n•gement French Political Science German World Area Studies Italian• Tr•nslation and Japanese Interpretation Portugul!>e • Russian SpanishAccredited by the Western Association of Schools and Colleges, California State Board of Education. •summer OnlyVeterans Approved. George Williams, Dean of Admissions will be at St. Mary's College, Oct. 15, 9-12 and at Notre Dame, Oct. 16, 8:30-5. Interested students should check with the Directors of Pt.cement.  

..... Observer ads pay off! !  
CLASSIFIED ADS WANTED Hey Bungie. now that you are a woman, remember that duck Desperately need 4GA tix for dive into the pond, casltes are Navy. Will pay. Call Joe: 3274. built in the air and you can always do it for the fat lady in the circus.Deesperately need 6·10 GA USC Happy birthday! tickets. Will pay good money if Too bad we can't bring you a necessary. Call 4773 or 1654. cake from Bernascono. (Would you believe a T.'C. from HOUSTON?)Need 2 GA tix Army. Call 283· 1773. Desperately need Army lix. Call Beth 7401 or Mike 8736. LOST AND FOUND Need 2 GA tix for USC game. Lost javelin key ring. Please Call Sr. Norlene 3739 or 726tJ call MCP 4728. now! -I am going to be disowned High school class ring lost near unless 1 get J.4 GA tix for my rock. S5 reward, 8763. father tor any home game but Air Force. Will pay S$. Call LOST: White gold NO ring.4077. Initials: B.M.P. S10 reward. Call 1868. Desperately need GA tix for the Army and Navy games. Call 1364. FOR SALE Meed .. gGA tix to USC. Call -Phil 1598. MEERSCHAUM PIPES! Exceptional values, per·Desperately need 8 Stud. USC sonalized service. Catalog. tix. Will meet inflationary PMP Co. Box 444. Gaither· demands. Call Pat. 288·5563. sburg, MD 2076tJ. -Yamaha guitar F·G 300 (retail Need tickets to the Southern price $300) rosewood, inlaid Cal game. Please call Dan at pear I. adjustable bridge, 282·1568. hardshell case, excellent condition. Call David 8427. Desperately need 3 GA USC tix. Call 7835 now. '68 Mustang · 6 cyl., dark blue, very good condition ·see at NO Need 2 GA Navy tix. Will pay stadium Gate 1 or call 272·9983 !!. Call 3129. (Greg l alter 5. Beginner needs inexpensive 1962 TR.J. Classy and guitar. Call 5749. dependable but judge for yourself. Asking $276.00. Call Really need 3 GA USC tix. Jock. 232·7682. Please call Evelyn 6956. Need 3 USC tix. 4 Navy tx. Call NOTICES Tom 6522. Will pay. Will do typing: term papers, Need Army tix. Call Tom 232· manuscripts, etc. Call: 2JJ. 2693. 6909. Need four or two pair GA usc Morrissey Loan Fund can loan tickets. Will pay premium up to $150 at 1 per cent interest, price. Call Terry 3478. 1 day waiting period. Basement of LaFortune. 11:15 Need 2·6 GA tix for USC. Will 12:15. Mon . Fri. pay reasonably exorbitant prices. Also NEED 2 GA tix GSU SOCIAL COMMITTEE is 232·2973. looking tor members. Be a BPOC; fringe benefits, Need to buy or rent 2·man tent retirement plan, etc. Call Paul Cll 234·9535. B. at 6615 or 272·7405. Need 2 GA tix Navy. Call 272· PITTSBURGH CLUB 0620. THERE IS A BUS TO PITT· SBURGH FOR SEMESTER Need 2 USC tix. Call Chuck 234· BREAK. PAYMENT DUE 2542. SUN. OCT 14 7:00 PM LA FORTUNE AMPHITHEATER Desperately need 2 USC tix. (1st FLOOR) QUESTIONS Call 287·1178 alter lOpm. BOB 2127, JOHN 1786. Need 2 USC tix. Call Michele European Study Tour. Dec. 27 · 4161. Jan 15 England, Ireland, Scotland and Wales. 3 collegePart time help needed in car credits available. $679 all wash NEAR CAMPUS. Hours expenses from New York. For weekdays 7:30am 3:00 pm information call Prof. A.R. Sl.80·hr. CALL 291·2673. Black, Si. Mary's 4948. -­Need many Navy tix. Will pay Students interested in ND·SMC well. Rich 7802. gay student alliance call 7768, Wed. or Fri. 7.9 pm. Need 2 GA tix for Navy. Will pay. George 287·5698. Junior League of South Bend Thrift Shop Sale . over 30,000 Need 2·4 GA tix USC. Call Scott new and used items. furniture, 1598. clothing, housewares, etc. 4·H fairgrounds Saturday Oct. 13, Need 1stud., I GA USC or 2 GA 9:00 am 5:00 pm. Free usc. Call Stevt 233·1302. parking, free admission. RIDES WANTED Farm trip this Saturday 1·6:30. Meet at Logan.Wanted: Ride to Pittsburgh Thursday. Call Bob 3451. HELP!! Need ride to Newark, FOR RENT Delaware (U of Delaware) for October break. Stare ex. Double·House for Rent 807 penses. Andy 1623. Portage. 4 or more BR's, 2 baths, 2 kitchens, utilities in· Need ride to Pittsburgh Oct. 18. eluded. Call 256·0111 for Will share expense and details. driving. Jack 3486. 2rooms apt. for rent. Call alter Need ride to D.C. Oct. 18. Will 5pm 288·9533. share ! !! . 'Is'Ia-. FOR RENT: Large, one Need ride to Green Bay area bedroom apt. CompletelyOct. 12. Call 4461. remodelled and furnished with full kitchen. Utilities paid.PERSONALS S135.00permonth. Caii2J2.6622 days only. Ask tor Jim.With pointed sword she comes our way, to brighten up our Room for rent. 8 minutes fromevery day, her green and white NO. Call 232·4545.socks are here to stay, for by them she swear to become the ROOMS $.40 MO. RIDES TOno. 1 jock in every way. SCHOOL. 233·1329.Therese, Happy B'day last teenage year turkey. Glab!Jreive.  


I' ·o. .• , • t .... , ''.. ,. ,. r.•·~ •,..I 

( ·~ .. 
....~ ..· . • I ~ '
/ 


the observet:_._____F_;r_id:-a....x"""''··~t_o_~r 12., 1973 
OwIs, Irish square off in Hou~to11 
by Vic Dorr. Sports Editor 
Anyone casually passing through 'le Houston area this weekend :•ight well think himself in the :1iddle of a RoyHofheinz football 
.<travaganza. There's high school football on riday and Saturday. The Oilers 
· •e at home Sunday against the enver Broncos. And tonight, in ·ouston's steel, plexiglass and ·stroturf sports palace, the 
niversity of Houston Cougars will 'ltertain the Gobblers of Virginia ·ech. 
But as in any extravaganza, ·Jere are preliminary events and .:1ere is a main event. This .•eekend's high school games, the 
'ouston-VPI game, and even the ·ilers' clash with the Broncos are :1epreliminaryevents. The main {)rtion of this football weekend, !ouston-style, will come tomorrow .ight at 7:30 p.m. (c.d.t.), when ·:otre Dame plays its first-ever )ad game against the Owls of Rice Jniversi ty. 
The game will mark only the .econd meeting between the two ·.earns <the only previous en­('Qunter was in 1915, and Notre iJame was a 55-2 victor), 

Vic Dorr:::::::::::::::::=:=:=:::=::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 


The Irish Eye 

Football fans in Texas differ from football fans everywhere else in one mportant way-they're Texans, and they share the pride and cockiness hat's common tomany inhabitants of the Lone Star State. 
And to Texas football fans, this weekend's slate of collegiate action ;hould be as welcome as bar-b-qued spare ribs, or bourbon and water on a ·hilly December night. For this weekend's action not only places the 1ation's biggest game-Oklahoma and Texas-in Dallas, it also places mother game of crucial importance-Notre Dame and Rice-in Houston. 
But even though Texas has two of the biggest games, it doesn't have all ·f them. There will be others scattered across the country tomorrow, ·om Morgantown, W.Va., to Boulder, Colorado: 
Notre Dame at Rice: The Owl sidelines will be dotted with Roman ~ollars tomorrow night-80 of them to be exact-but its the 22 guys on the 1eld who'll make the difference. And that's where the Irish have the 1dvantage-too much of an advantage for coach AI Conover's clerics. ~organ: ND; Fineran: ND. 

Air Force at Colorado: The Air Force Academy is mile-high to begin 'lith, but come tomorrow afternoon coach Eddie Crowder's Buffaloes will ;.e higher still. Corgan: Colorado; Fineran: Air Force. 
Army at Penn State: The Nittany Lions one week and Notre Dame the ,ext. The Academy's schedule-makers should have been more careful­~nd more serious. Corgan: Penn State; Fineran: Penn State. 
LSU at Auburn: It'll be tough on the road, but "Jolly Cholly" o(cClendon's Tigers can tame Shug Jordan's Tigers. Corgan: LSU; ""ineran: LSU. 
l 
Mississippi at Ge{)rgia : The home-field advantage always counts for a at in these down-south tussles, and Georgia has the edge in this one-too ,nuch of an edge for the Rebels. Corgan: Georgia; Fineran: Mississippi. 
Purdue at Illinois: Alex Agase may finally have the Boilers rolling. 
:"'urdue defeated Duke at home last week, and tomorrow, even in ·:bampagne, should stay unbeaten in the Big Ten. Corgan: Purdue: 
~·'ineran: lllinois. 
Indiana at Minnesota: Indiana. Corgan: Indiana; Fineran: Indiana. Iowa at Northwestern: Ifpossible, a less stimulating game than the one :::bove. Except, perhaps, for Iowa fans, who'll see the Hawkeyes come out 

.n top. Corgan: Northwestern; Fineran: Iowa. Kansas State at Kansas: Give the nod to the Kansas Jayhawks in this 1tra-state battle. Corgan: Kansas; Fineran: Kansas. 
North Carolina at Kentucky: The Tarheels lost a close one last week. 'hey should win tomorrow-and not a close one, ejther. Corgan: UNC; 'ineran: Kentucky. 
Michigan at Michigan State: This will be a ctose one, and it, too, will 1vor the visiting team. The Wolves have too much for Denny Stolz' partans. Corgan: Michigan; Fineran: Michigan State. 
Oklahoma at Texas: The Longhorns have taken their lumps once this eason. They can-and will-atone for that embarrassment tomorrow, rhen they entertain Oklahoma in Dallas. Corgan: Texas; Fineran: 1klahoma. 
Pitt at West Virginia: The Mountaineers are floundering, while Pitt is nly struggling. The Panthers are due, too, and Johnny Majors will have 1em ready. Corgan: Pitt; Fineran: West Virginia. 
UCLA at Stanford: The Bruins are still nurturing Rose Bowl ambitions, nd the Cardinals don't seem to be in any position to stop them. Corgan: TCLA; Fineran: UCLA. 
Ohio State at Wisconsin: The Buckeyes over the Badgers. Wisconsin ad its stab at glory last weekend. Corgan: OSU; Fineran: OSU. 
Upset of the week: Nebraska at Missouri: Mizzou has the talent to do it 1is year, and an unbeaten record that's no fluke. They also have the 1centive of last year's 62-0 drubbing at the hands of Nebraska. Corgan: lizzou; Fineran: Mizzou. 
Last week: 13-15; season: 49-60; Corgan: 13-15; Fineran 13-15. 
but Houston's sports moguls have given it a build-up suited for a long, enduring rivalry. 
A near-capacity crowd (65,000) has responded to the build up, and by tomorrow night's kickoff time, even more persons will be jammed into the70,000 seat stadium on the University's campus. 
And these thousands of Texans accustomed as they are to solid: competitive football on every level, aren't coming merely to watch the nation's ninth-ranked team. They're also coming to watch their home-town ball club, coach AI Conover's Rice Owls. They're coming to watch a team which, despite a lacklustre 1-2 recored has been harboring hopes of a~ upset for the past two weeks. 
They're also coming to see if the Irish can cope with a pair of natural opponents--the absence of a grass and sod-type playing field <Rice Stadium is covered with an artificial surface), and the presence of darkness and artificial lighting. 
"The night game will make a difference for us," admitted Irish coach Ara Parseghian, "especially since we won't be able to work out 
in the stadium on Friday night because of a high school game. 

But along with the night, there's another factor we have to consider, too. The Rice Owls have had two weeks to prepare for us, and in two weeks they could have made any number of offensive and defensive changes. 
"We're going to have to be ready for anything when we play them, and we're very concerned about the two w~ks they'~e had to prepare. Thts factorwtll be every bit as significant as the night." 
Parseghian's unbeaten Irish haven't been able to prepare for a game under the lights, but during the past week ND has workPd at ?verco_ming the Owls' ?ne-week Jump m game preparation. Of­fensive timing and assignment­competency has occupied much of 
Ara's. attentio? during the wee~'s practice sess10ns, and ~e. In_sh coach has stressed t~e eltmma~10n of turnovers and dnve-thwartmg miscues. 
"Against Michigan State," said Parseghian, "our offense certainly didn't perform up to the stan­dards that we expect. In­terceptions and fumbles plagued us and gave the Spartans their points. 
"New Rice " he continued "has some fine skills both offen~ively 
f~:n df~e~~;e~~:to :r~;~~e~~v~~~ 
formance if we expect to win. Rice held LSU to three. points in the first half at Baton RQuge <the Owls led at intermission; 9-3), before losing a 24-9 decision , and any team that can do that has to be respected. 
"They're very determine~. Theyre well-coitched, and tlley react well. They could give us problems in trying to defense them." 
The Irish could, indeed, have problems with the Owls, and those problems may start with a quartet of Owl standouts-two each on offense and defense. 
The Rice attack will be led tomorrow by Tommy Kramer, a frehsman from San Antonio who'll bestartinghis first college game. Kramer, in the other action he's seen this season, has completed 12 of 34 passes for 147 yards, and has minus rushing statistics. But as a starter, he'll be throwing to split end Edwin Collins, 1972's All­Southwest Conference wide receiver. 
Collins (6-1, 190) snagged 42 passes for 540 yards last year, but has company this year from flanker Ed Lofton, who this year has already grabbed 11 receptions for 177 yards. 
The Owl defense centers around two All-American candidates: safety Bruce Henley (6-2, 173) and middle guard Cornelius Walker (6-2,253). Henley is six in­terceptions away from breaking the SWC career record of 18, and Walker, who has 4.7 speed in the 40, is the most experienced starter on a veteran defensive line. 
The Owls have other plusses, too, beyond their 5-2 defense and their pro-set offense. They also have, in Mike Landrum and little James Sykes, the leading punt and kickoff returners, respectively, in the Southwest Conference. 
But the Owls are seeking one other advange in thier night-time meeting with the Irish. They're seeking an advantage Notre Dame 
Digger slates 

b-ball tryouts 

Varsity basketball tryouts for all students, including freshmen, will be held on Monday, October 15 at 4:30p.m. in the main arena of the ACC. Tryouts will be on this day only and all candidates must bring their own equipment. 

· · · · · · 
Inconsistency on offense has plagued the Irish in their past two games. NO will be seeking to improve its short-yardage punch tomorrow at Rice. 

has always called its own. Rice tonio area to attend the games as coach AI Conover has declared his guests. tomorrow's game as "Father's And the fathers, he says, will be Day," and has invited 80 Catholic expected to sit behind the Rice pries; from the Houston-San An-bench. 
Frank Pomarico::::::::::::;:::::;:=:::===============:=:;:;:::;:=:=:=:;:=:=:=:=:;:;:=:=:::::=:=::::::=== 


Captain's Corner 


Notre Dame 14, Michigan State 10. Oh Boy, was that a close one-but we won, and that's what counts. The game was a very tough defensive battle as everyone expected. 
The rebuilding job on defense has been a hard task, but it has turned out to be a very .pleasant surprise for Irish coaches and fans. The area that seemed --before the season-to be weakest on the defense was the linebackers, but the likes of Greg Collins, Gary Potempa, Sherm Smith, and Drew Mahalic have proved that notion very wrong. This week I would like to spend some time and try to explain to Irish fans just what kind of people these Gladiators of the defense really are. 
There hasn't been an All-American linebacker at Notre Dame since Bob Olsen back in 1969. This situation, I feel, will be changed by a man named Greg Collins. Greg is from Troy,Michigan, is 6'3", 228lbs, and girls think he's very good looking. 
Mr. Collins has been a sleeper for two y~rs, but this year seems to have come into his own. He has an unusual knack for being aroung the ball. Week after week he leads the defense in tackles and is feared by many opposing ball-carriers. Greg has a good sense of humor and is easy to get along with. He is always working very hard to overcome any roadblocks in his way success. Greg is a winner. 
Another rough guy is Gary Potempa Gary is a very intelligent person as well as being the strongest of linebackers. He combines his in­telligence and strenth with a firery personality on the field which is only satisfiedwhen the game is over and ND's opponents are beaten. Gary is from Niles, Illinois, and is 5'11", 230 Ib•. Off the field Gary is a pretty quiet person with an open mind to almost anything. Gary is having a fabulous season now and I'm sure he will keep up the good work. 
Next we have Sherm Smith from Chillicothe, Missouri. Sherm is 6'1", 210 pounds and full of life. On the field he is all business. Sherm doesn't joke around much and he gets the job done. Off the field Shem has the world by the tail. He doesn't seem to get excited about anything but kind of flows along with the tide. He's a great guy and has a lot on the ball that means a grat future. Another great thing about Sherm is that he.ll be back for another year with the Irish. 
To round out the Gladiators we have Drew Mahalic. Drew is from Birmingham, Michigan and is 6'4" and 220 pounds. Drew is and itelligent football player. Despite his size, he doesn't try to overpower you, but his game.is more finesse, combined with speed and strength. Drew, being an expenenced ballplayer, has gained a lot of confidence in himself and shows it on the field. 
While talking about the above linebackers one can't fail to talk about the reserves, Mike Webb, Tim Sullivan, Tony Novakov, Joe Pszeracki. With this type of experience and youth backing up the Notre Dame Gladiators, they should be in good shape for the next few years. 
To take a look at thisweek'sgame, Irish fans are relatively unfamiliar with Rice University. We'll sit back and listen, Irish fans because this week is going to be a real test to see the character of ou; Notre Dame team. You see, Rice and the South want a part of Notre Dame. We are going to show them, however, Texas isn't the only place people grow big, and that us Yankees have come to play ball. Go Irish. 






