On The Inside 
Farley Beds ... see page 5 Huddle Burglary .•• see page 6 

Vol. VIII, No. 26 serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Wednesday, October 10, 1973 
Israeli planes 

attack Damascus 
Israeli warplanes · attacked the Cairo and Damascus areas Tuesday in their biggest air offensive of the new war and Syria said they wrecked the Soviet cultural center in Damascus, causing heavy casualties. Israel said its troops had "stabilized " the 
two ground fronts but warned there would be no "rapid conquests" of the Arabs. 
Carrying the four-day-old war into the Arab hear­tland, Israel said its pilots bombed Syrian military headquarters in the Damascus subussuburbs, pu­ounded airfields in Egypt, power plants and refineries,deep in Syria and a radar station in Lebanon. Official Israeli sources said Israeli planes also struck against military targets on the Cairo outskirts, but gave no details of what was hit. 
Eyewitness reports from Damascus, however, said 
Israeli planes hit civilian targets in Damascus, fashionable embassy row, destroying at .least 10 buildings including the Soviet cultural center. 
One director of the cultural center told newsmen six Soviet employees of the center were killed when Israeli rockets leveled the building. 
Damascus dispatches reported a Norwegian truce observer for the U.N. , his wife and small daughter also were killed and the wives and children of Indian and Pakstani diplomats wounded. Witnesses reported many other civilian casualties. 
One dispatch from a CBS New correspondent in Damascus said Israeli planes including American­made Phantom jets, scored a direct hit on the Russian embassy, killing at least 30 Russians, including women and children. 
"I was at the scene and I saw children's bodies in the rubble" said CBS correspondent Dean Brelis. "I saw people buried under this tremendous damage caused by this attack from the Israeli air force." 
A high Israeli military leader, meanwhile, said Tuesday night the Israel had achieved stability on its two gfighting fronts but warned against "sacaring ­caring 
A high Israeli military leader, meanwhile, said Ut­Tuesday night that Israel ahad achieved stability on its two fighting fronts but warned against "soaring visions of elegant and rapid conqt!ests of the Arabs." 
U.S. pushes tor Mid-East peace 
WASHINGTON UPI -President Nixon expressed hope Tuesday that diplomatic efforts to end the Arab­Israeli war would produce a "new structure of peace in the Mideast.", but U.S. officials saw little chance of an early end to the fighting. 
The President said the U.S. goal was "not simply to end the fighting which is going on now," but to create a permanent system "for avoiding war breaking out as it has over and over again for the past 25 years." 
The White House declined to comment officially on what if any progress had been made in the diplomatic initiative Nixon began over the weekend to end the war and restore boundaries existing before fighting broke out Saturday. 
The State Department said the United State had no concrete proposals to put before the U.S. Security Council which commened late Monday over the crisis. 
Some administration officials indicated the United States was satisfied with the Soviet Union's posture in the conflict and believed it was urgmg restraint on its Arab allies. 
However, senior State Department officials said privately they detected no evidence of Soviet pressure for restraint. Publicly, department spokesman Robert 
J. McCloskey said it appeared the Russians did not want to see the cnflict widen, but "I would be hard put to sav it i!> a i•1d2ment that assures us that would continue to be the case." 
Nixon exchanged person messages with Soviet Leader Leonid I. Brezhnev about the conflict on Sunday. 
McCloskey said all indications were that the fighting was escalating, and had expanded to include air, ground, naval, artillery and infantry forces. Other officials said neither the Israelis nor the Arabs seemed to have gained the upper hand. Nixor. 
(continued on page 7) 

NO off campus students to make housing evaluations 

price.

by Ken Bradford The letter mentioned projectsStaff Reporter 
currently being considered for development to serve the off-Notre Dame students residing campus student. Shuttle bus off-campus will soon be asked to service for the off-campus student evaluate their housing conditions, is expected to begin soon, Fr. Shilts according toFr. James L. Shilts, said. Also under investigaton are Director of UI'f-Campus Residence. car pools and cooperative pur-
In a letter to ~ll off-campus chasing of food and other com-residents Fr. Shilts said, "I've modities. received so many (reports of sub-The letter also reminded standard conditions) that I want to students of the opening of the Off-take steps to bring houses up to Campus Commission of Student city standards and create Government Office in the south pressures to reduce rents." basement of the LaFortune 
Included with the letter is a Student Center. questionnaire inqmrmg into In addition, plans for purchasing possible violations of the city meals from the University Dining housing codes. Topics in the Halls are outlined. The letter also questionnaire include the condition suggests possible social or of the roof and the presence of religious gatherings for off-insects, rodents, or accumulations campus students at the Bulla Shed of rubbish. The student is or at the homes of the students. requested to give the approximate The letters are expected to reach rent per student also. students by Friday. Completed 
Fr. Shilts said the questionnaire information questionnaires should be returned is expected to provide his office questionaire to the Off-Campus Office in with an "accurate profile of what will give students seeking off-LaFortune Student Center or the the housing quality is for off-campus housing next semester the Student Affairs Office in the Ad-campus students." "PPOrtunity to compare quality and ministration Building. 
IIIIIIIII II IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIII1111111111111 UllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllII1111 IIIllII1111111111111111111 II II II II IIIII111111 IIII II II 1111 IIIIIIIII II 1111111111111 
Text of Shilts letter 

Dear Off-Campus Notre Dame questionnaire form for those who advantage of either plan in the Student: are renting which looks for second semester. violations of the local Building 
3. Student Season tickets for 

Let me begin by introducing Code. It will also help me and all of Basketball and Hockey will be 
myself. I am the newly appointed us tremendously if you would on sale at the ACC. Ticket sales Director of Off-Campus Residence. complete and return the form to for concerts and other events That is about as long a title as I had Student Affairs. This survey of are always announced in the to use above in addressing you. My housing conditions and prices will Observer. title simply means that I'm sup­be used to identify those landlords 4. Together with Campus Ministry, posed to look after the housing and who are taking advantage of the I offer the services of Bulla personal needs of off-campus student needs for housing. There Shed for religious social
or 

students and try to deliver to you are plenty of places available. We gatherings and suggest that we some of the benefits that a can afford to eliminate the rip-offs. 
could also come to your houses 

residential school is better able to One of our goals is better com-or apartments for Mass or for offer its on-campus students. We in munication with off-campus group dialogue.Student Affairs assume that the students, keeping you aware of 5. Cases of discrimination or of 
off-campus students would like to events and available services and severe violation of the Building help to make their lot as com­learning about your needs. Center Code should be reported to me fortable and educative as possible for information and small gather­immediately. For lesser and are willing to cooperate in ing places located aroun•. South problems, too, please make use improving off-campus living. I will Bend and Mishawaka may be an of our services. You can phonebe glad to be a part of that effort. answer. For now, though, I want to me day (283-8411) or night (283­
Along with Student Government, inform you of several important 7424). I would appreciate we are considering the possibility things: hearing your suggestionsof transportation by shuttle bus or 1. The Off-Campus Commission of car pool and the cooperative Student Government has an 
purchasing of food and other office in the south basement of "Making it"off-campusmay be a 
commodities. I am anxious at the La Fortune Student Center program in many ways but it is a moment, however, to improve and where notices are posted and great learning experience in regularize student housing. I've copies of the Observer cal< oe responsibility and personal
received reports of sub-standard picked up. resourcefulness. My prayer is that conditions, unfulfilled promises 2. In addition to the 21 meal per you will find it enjoyable and that and high rents-so many of them week plan at $335 and a 17 meal you are having a good year.
that I want to take steps to bring week plan at $295, the Dining
houses up to city standards and Hall is considering a 10 meal Sincerely, 
create pressures to reduce rents. plan at $225 and a 5 meal plan 
at $110. We need to hear from <Rev.) James L. Shilts, C.S.C. 

j
1 am enclosing a survey you how many would take Director of Off-Campus Residence 
Ill Ill Ill Ill IllIIIIIJJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIJIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIJIIDIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIRIJIJIII-IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIll11111111111111111111111111111111111111 
l 
HPC fun,ds allotted j 
j 
j 
I 
by Jim Eder Staff Reporter 

HPC Chairman Fred Baranowski announced last night that publication of the final allotment of the Hall Life Fund will be postponed until next Tuesday due to difficulties concerning the validity of large allocations for hall banquets' 
The six-member committee reviwewing the requests for allocations submitted by the various halls has already decided upon a tentative budget based upon its decision to give top priority to those requests designed to finance physical hall imp­rovements, according to Baranowski. 
"The majority of requests submitted have fallen into the category of permanent improvements and have, within reason, been approved by the com­mittee," affirmed the HPC chairman. "A few halls, however, have submitted requests for money of which ninety percent is intended to be used ex­clusively for hall banquets. Although the committee recognizes the value of such events, it is undecided as to whether it is proper to allocate sums as large as four and five hundred dollars for one-shot events." 
Baranowski pointed out that such allocations would cut into those made to halls requiring funds for more long-astlasting imrpovements. On the other hand, he also noted that he committee 
(continued on page 7) 


the observer 

world briefs 
. . WASHINGTON--White House energy adviser John A. Love said Tuesday the United States would be hard-pressed to import all the home heating oil it needs this winter if the Arab-Israeli war prompts Saudi Arabia to cut off its exports. 
.. WASHINGTON--The Senate Watergate Committee may subpoene billionaire Howard Hughes and presidential companion Charles C. "Bebe" Rebozo for questioning about reports of a $100,000 cash gift from Hughes to President Nixon, members said Tuesday. 
The committee also voted to question Frank Mankiewicz, a top official of George S. McGovern's campaign, and Berl I. Bernhard, . manager of Sen. Edmund S. Muskie's campaign, about possible 
Democratic "dirty tricks" in the 1972 presidential election. 
.. BALTIMORE--With the Justice Department as a legal ally repor­ters subpoenaed by Vice President Spiro T. Agnew prepared Tuesday to seek to quash the subpoenas for disclosure of their confidential news sources in the Agnew investigation. 
WASHINGTON--The Supreme Court agreed Tuesday to rule on the constitutionality of a two-centuresi-old provision of military law used to convict two servicemen in connection with the Vietnam War protests. 
The Court also issued a flurry of orders on cases involving racial matters, obscenity, President Nixon's impoundment of appropriated funds, sex descrimination and a variety of other subjects. 
an campus taday 
9a.m.-4 p.m.--ticket sales, basketball and hockey season tickets, second floor ticket window, ace 
12:15 p.m.--lecture, "cardiovascular disease and microbial flora," dr. 
bernard wostmann, dept. of microbiology, room 102, lobund lab . 3 p.m.--film, civilization movie series, to complement west. civ. course, engineering auditorium, free 
3:30 p.m.--lecture, "life insurance sales techniques: standard business practice or national scandal?" dr. joseph m. belth, prof. of insurance at I.U., library auditorium 
4:30 
p.m.--lecture, "structural and dynamical properties of phospholipid bilayer membranes," prof. sunney i. chan, room 123, nieuwland science 

4:30 
p.m.--lecture, series entitled, "to be an insect," thomas eisner, cornell university, opening lecutre, "to survive attack," room 278, galvin life science bldg. 


6 p.m.--reception-dinner, south bend alumnae chapter, stapleton lounge, smc 
7 p.m.--meeting, american chemical society student affiliates, room 343, 
nieuwland 8 p.m.--lecture, perpective series: wilfrid sellars, "minds and in­telligibles," biology auditorium. 
8 p.m.--talk, lefty smith, n.d. hockey coach, grace well. 
8:30 p.m.--drama, richard the third, o'laughlin aud., $1.50 for students, faculty and staff 


at nd-smc: 

At Washington Hall 
Caesar showing Monday 
by Rick Scharf Staff Reporter 

Julius Caesar, the next film of 
the "Shakespeare Film Series," 
will be shown in Washington Hall 
on Monday, October 15, instead of 
in the Engineering Auditorium as 
originally scheduled. A larger 
building is needed to show the 
films due to the fire hazards 
created by the overflow crowds 
that have attended the first three 
films of the series in the 
Engineering Auditorium. 
"The!Security Department as 
well as the Dean's Office have 
asked us to move the films to a 
larger place," said the series' 
organizaer Paul Rathburn, asst. 
professor of English. "We will be 
able to use Washington Hall for he 



Dean search continues 
by Paul Waller Staff Reporter 

A search committee is still considering the selection of a new dean of the College of Business Administration. 
University president Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., stated that the committee is composed of a combination of five full and associate professors in the College and one student. They are to nominate a successfor to Professor Thomas T. Murphy. Murphy is the fourth dean of the 

~ D 
SMC 


THEATRE 
SEASON 1973-74 

Richard III 

Shakespeare's bold history Oct. 9, 10, 11, 12, 13 at 8:30pm 0'Laughlin Audi (St. Mary's 
.. ~ '( 9 'Y f > 'J I ·1 • I •o • • -, ......, • .._..... 


showing of Julius Caesar next Julius Caesar is a 35 mm film Monday thanks to the ND-SMC starring Marlon Brando. This film Drama Department. They had is the first serious American at­
originally reserved the building for tempt to do Shakespeare on film, auditions," Rathburn noted. and Rathburn indicated that it The location for showing the should prove to be one of the best of 
remainder of the films in the series the series. 
will be determined on a weekly basis since Washington Hall will not always be available. "We will just have to play it by ear. Some of the films will have to be shown in the Engineering Auditorium," stated Rathburn. 
Rathburn is delighted by the response to the films thus far. "It is like a Free University course if people chose to go to all the films," he pointed out. 
Despite the change in location, Julius Caesar will be shown at the same times as the other films in the series, 7 and 10 p.m., and it will remain free of charge. 

Returning to South Bend by 
The Observer is published dally during the college semester exc:ept vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased. for sa per semester ($14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

HIGH ON THE RANGE 
Tuesday & Wednesday 8 & 10 p.m.Oct. 9 & 10 
Washington Hall $1.00 





FREE! FREE! 
TWO (2) 1O·SPEED BICYCLES••• 
No gimmicks, no catches ... just stop .in and register at the Campus Shop ... that's it; no purchase necessary . The drawing will be held Oct. 31. The only thing we hope is that while you're here you'll notice our great selection of apparel and accessories. This is just our way or getting your attention. 

Academic Commission 
and 
CAC 
PRESENT 
SEX MADNESS 
AND 


Watergate Committee investigates Hughes 
~ 
, Alcholism lecture at Standford Hall 
by Paul Young 
Staff Reporter 

Are you an alcoholic? What drives people to become alcoholics? How does an alcoholic cope with his problem? These 3 questions highlig~ted ~ presen­tation on alcoholism given by 2 former alcoholics in Stanford Hall Chapel last night. 
Father Terry Solly, rector of Stanford Hall, introduced the 2 speakers, Nick and Molly, w~o spoke of their experiences With alcohol and Alcoholics Anonymous. 
Nick related how as a youth he 
by Clay Richards 

Washington <UPil--Senate Watergate committee in­vestigators are tying to find out what happened to $100,000 in cash thwt billionaire Howard Hughes reportedly gave Charles G. "Bebe" Rebozo, a close friend of President Nixon. 
Committee sources said one question they are exploring is whether• any of the money was used to finance the purchase of President Nixon's San Clemente home. 
SMC court space limited 
by Janie Schiltz Staff Reporter 

The lack of available tennis court space is being felt on both the ND and SMC campuses. Due to the limited number of courts at Saint Mary's, Notre Dame students may used alcohol as an escape from the anxiety he experienced in trying to relate to other people. Nick pointed out, "I had to please you and be what vou were." "Booze opened the door to social living for n1e." 
''As time went on I live outside of peopla and began to hate," Nick continued. "Booze became my god and did whatever it wanted with n1e". 
Nick accumulated 3 assault and battery charges in a short tiem and at 26 was sentneced to life imprisonement for second degree murder. He attempted suicide three times, reasoning that "if you 
Other sources said the Internal Revenue Service also was in­vestigating the reported tran­saction. 
"We are looking into the possibility of a link between this money and the purchase of the San Clemente home," one committee source said. "As yet we don't have the evidence to call Rebozo or anyone else before the hearings." 
Rebozo, a real estate man who is also Nixon's Key Biscayne, Fla., neighbor, was questioned privately by Terry Lanzer, a member of the committee staff, last week. 
use the courts only when they are not in use or in demand by SMC students. 
According to Kathleen Mulaney, dean of students at SMC, "the guys are more than welcome to use our courts providing that the girls don't want to use them." 


Courting facilities diminishing rapidly. 
"Smile, God Laves You"
@ DERSHEM MOTORS @ 
Quality Cars-From $395·$1595
G F 
59 Buick Electra '225' 4 Door 
Hcrdtop, lull power, low miles, exrro shore · R
R 

66 Buick LeSobre 2 Door Y8 
Hardtop, outomotl(, steenng. V~nyl. Shorpl E
A 

65 Buick Electro '225' 4 Door 
Hnrdtop, tun power, oor. t;ooa tam~ car. EN 66 Chevy Caprice 4 Door ardtop 
D 
Vmyl, I owner. Cfeone'Jt 1n town! 
67 Thunderbird 2 Door HnrdtoE loaded with extras. 
5 

67 Buick lectra '225' 4 Door Hardtop fu" power, "" N 67 Chevy tmr,:rla 2 Door Hardtop
0 V8 outomo !{, power steerin~ oir 0 68 Ford Golaxie '500 '2 Door
p w
Hardtop, vmyl lop, power 69 Buick Sport Wa~an-9 passengerE AfJtom:::~trc, tul pow~r. orr 69 Pontiac Bonneville 2 Door Hardlop, vtnyl!op, 011 TN 69 Fiat '850' Spider Roadster 4 !~pe~:d tronsmrss10n I
I 
R

N FINANCING AVAILABLE E
"If we don't have it, we'll get It"
G OPEN 5 
MoiL, Tues., Thun., 9-8; Wed., Fri., Sat., 9-6 
CALL 233-5145 832 S.th 1111111 All. J1 llatre 0. All.
@ @ 
Vf·~~ood-'~-v_,_p_c_to_b_er_lo_,_l_97_J______t_h_e_o_b_s_e_rv_..;.e_r____._3_ 
are going around in circles and know that you're not going anywhere, you try and stop the clock". 
Nick was introduced to A.A. in 1944 by a fellow inmante who had written for help after reading about A.A. in the newspaper. 
Nick emphasized three im­portante points in rehabilitation: admission that one's life had become unmanageable because of alcohol, a beief that a power greater than ourselves could restore us to sanity, a decision to torun our will and our lives over the the care of God. 
Nick was released from prison in 
A source said Rebozo acknowledged in the interview receiving the money from Richard Danner, a Hughes aide, in two $50,000 cash packages. Rebozo reportedly told Lenzer he put the money in a safe deposit box at the Key Biscayne Bank and Trust Co. The committee hassubpoenaedthe bank's records. 
But what happened next to the money is not clear. One sources said Rebozo was "hazy" on the subject. 
"He <Rebozo) didn't know whether to call them contributions, 
At this point there have been few conflicts with this arrangement. If the girls want to use a court that is occupied by some men, they just have to ask. The men are usually allowed to finish their set or game before the girls move on the court. 
1952, and married, and is the father of 7 children. He has remained and "arrested alcoholic" since his release. 
Nolly claimed her drinking "glued everything together". Friends adivsed her to cut down, but Nolly didnn't believe "The most frightening things about alcoholism is that it is more in­visible to the alcoholic than those around him." 
Nolly said that her friends "could never understand that I drank to live, to get excitement and to get away from fears". Alcoholism brought shame and Molly reacted "I cut myself off 
but he assumed it was to be given for $1.5 million. He initially put one to the Finance Committee to Re­of his won funds into the 28.9 acre Eelct the President," the source estate, according to the official said. report released by the White 
Nixon bought the home in 1969 (continued on page 7) 

J'jrtffOnt 
Tires 

GROUP PURCHASE AGREEMENT 
Now available at a special discount to all students and em­ployees of Notre Dame. We handle a complete line of 4 ply, Belted, Radial, and Import car tires; at your special price. Also, our Philco appliance and Electronic Department will extend the discount. Please bring your I. D. card for iden· tification. 
OFFER GOOD ONLY AT OUR DOWNTOWN STORE 
502 S. Michigan South Bend, Indiana 
; 
" 

.. .....·...........•' .· •' ,· : ,' .. ,• ,. ,' . '....~· '· 
-
from tnose who meant som,ethinr 
to me". 
Four years ago Nolly "hit bot­tom". "I felt that anything would be better than the way life was then".. Hitting bottom for an alcoholic is a time when you are ready to try anything. For me this was trying Alcoholics Anonymous". 
After the presentation, Fr. Terry Lally pointed out that "only very, very infrequently is conselling sought for a drinking problem." 
If you want to find out more on the subject of alcohlism, Nick suggests that you call the Alcohol Information Center in South Bend. 
Social Trends 
Editor: 

The recent disciplinary dictums handed down from the ad­ministration have already been, and will further be, of great benefit to the student body here at Notre Dame. Beyond all questions of partying, in loco parentis, sex on campus, or the consumption of alcoholic beverages is the less selfish many students are beginning to feel for the ambiguous matter of "social trend." 
Ten years ago we entered the era of "do gooderism" for the general benefit of all constituents of the touted human race. The need to administer such community and benevolence lead to the practical necessity of subserviance to an understanding central ad­ministration. To be dubbed ex­ploitive was a most wicked curse in a time when intellectual America for the first time read Marx with eyes beneath unraised brows. 
As history's pendulum is so want to do, I think we've peaked our ten year community spirit and begun a move in the opposite direction. The very centers of past help have started to harden within themselves and indeed now regard themselves as autonomous. Ad­ministrations are exploiting the same people that they originally chose to serve. 
Within the microcosm of Notre Dame we look to the Student Union the university administration, and even the bookstore as restrictive, if not exploitive. These 



daanesbury 

UJST? HOW I POIV'T 
COVUJ H£ HAV£ KNOfJ/1 /II..L.
j GOrTEN LOST?Al/.. I KNOW 1JIE TRAILS ARE IS lJIAT 

organizations only supplement the obvious retreat from the people in Washington. 
If nothing else, the recent turn of events here at ND will benefit all of us by our antipathy for them. 
Sincerely, Thomas Simunek 


Overblown Proportion 
Editor: 
Jim Rybarczyk is officially impeached. And the com­missioners who voted on that decision say, " ... the decision was reached after a careful and thorough consideration of all possible consequences." Well, they may have numbered the consequences pro and con, but unfortunately they didn't think much about what they were doing. 
I am not a part of the Student Union at Notre Dame, but I am the Social Commissioner at St. Mary's. (Jim and his com­missioners have been very helpful in relations between St. Mary's and Notre Dame.) I think I can truly say that if Rybarczyk is actually put out of office, the entire Student Union will at best crawl for the rest of the year. 
In the statement issued to Rybarczyk, the Board of Com­missioners said, " ... we sincerely hope the Student Union com­missioners will reconsider the stance taken in their petition." (about resigning). I hope they don't--1 doubt they will. They know Jim is an honest and capable director. Thev all worked as a 
'HOLD THIS!' 


Recently, the Department gave permission for a square dance to be held there Friday, September 28, 1973. The event was held as planned and, successfully, as reported in The Observer, October 1, 1973. However, your readers may ·not have heard of the van­dalism that occurred in the Fieldhouse that same evening. 
A hasp and padlock were pried off of a faculty studio. Someone entered and destroyed a painting and a drawing within that studio. The drawing had been com­missioned by Father Burtchaell. In addition, three completed 

team--that te-am was winning student paintings in another part of together and that team will lose the building were slashed that together. same evening. 
That same statement said, Of course, I have no knowledge " ...we are ready to work. (to meet that persons attending the square responsibilities) This is our dance were involved, nor am I assurance to the Student Body." making that accusation. Never­They're gonna have to work damn theless, the vandalism did occur hard. Many of those who have that same night. Just possibly the resigned have been at the perpetrators were attracted to the Student Union for months, each building by the crowd, the music given more responsibility as he-and festivities, and never intended she has shown fit to take on. to participate in square dancing. Without the experience of the In any case, the results followed a commissioners, the third floor of pattern of vandalism seen on LaFortune will be in utter chaos at previous occasions. least for this year. It appears that security in the 
I am not posing a threat to Fieldhouseduring extracurricular anyone-no--A mistake has been activities is almost impossible, made. The Board of Com-given its many isolated studio missioners made a hasty rap on rooms, hallways, and antiquated Rybarczyk and sent him away. lock s~stems. . Instead they should sit down and I thmk the Fieldhouse should talk things out as fellow students accommodate cultural activities, 
and responsible people. I'm afraid the whole matter was an injustice to the students at large, dedicated members of the Student Union and most of all Jim Rybarczyk. ' 
Etienne said, "Precedent is too easy a crutch to use." You're right, H-man, the issue of precedent was completely blown out of proportion. In fact it was blown sky high-there's only pieces left now. · 
Denise Peterson 


frielcdhause Control 
Dear Sir: 
I would like to say something about extra curricular activities in the preferably those related to the arts, but I suppose these w~ll have to be f~rgone for now until some means Is found to end the van­dalism and protect the educational program of the Department of Art. 
Fieldhouse  and  why  the  Art  
Department  has  had to control  
such use.  



Sincerely, Thomas S. Fern Chairman 
Erotia Excuses 
Dear Editor: 

It was interesting to read the account of how the Erotic Film Festival was cancelled partly for lack of faculty support. But I think the promoters explained a bit too summarily the unwillingness of some ten faculty members to serve on a panel discussing the films. Allegedly, "the faculty was passing judgment on the films without having seen them." And another supposition suggests: "I felt the faculty was afraid to volunteer their time because they thought it might be wasted on the student body." Perhaps so. But other hypotheses are possible. I'm reminded of a cartoon showing a man lamenting the current state of stage and screen; the caption has him saying: "I go to the theatre to be entertained--not to see incest, adultery and sodomy. I get all that at home." Another possibility is that there are a lot of prudes on the faculty. Or perhaps many professors have investments in local theatres which would suffer from campus competition. Still another possibility is that professors declined to collaborate, not from any low opinion of the student body, but rather out of respect for it. Some might have 

raarry trudeau 

HOW ON, 

Y£5, :£'{) liKE
IJJ{V£ GOT 

1Rl/STHIKE MIK£Y! 
10 ~PORT A
10 Gtr L-OST HUP'S
/.057/ 1HAT 10 RtPORT 

M/55/NG Tl/!?KEY.
IN HIS OtuN COMING/
NI/M85KUU! IT llJ TH£ 

good taste or a high sense of human dignity. You just never know. 
James Ward 

Soriners Obiect 
Editor: 

We, the students involved in the Sorin Hall party violations case, feel that a newspaper article is to be factual, and were under the mistaken· impression that our case was to be represented fairly by Art Ferranti and The Observer. We feel that Mr. Ferranti failed to get several facts straight, and also failed to bring several im­portant facts to light. 
1) At no point in the article did Mr. Derranti state that the parties in question 
were orderly, a fact readily admitted by the rector, Father Zang. There was no damage to the hall, nor was there an in­stance of boorish behavior. 
2) The punishment rendered was not simply prohibition from attending university sponsored functions, but also disciplinary probation. This means that if we step out of line once more, a severe punishment such as suspension or expulsion will ensue. 
3) We dV not receive a copy of the letter of complaint until after our meeting with Mr. Macheca. We, in fact, did not know what the charges against us were until the meeting, clearly violating students' rights as explained in the student manual. 
4) Mr. Ferranti and Mr. Macheca seem to have the mistaken impression that the punishment was mutually agreed upon, "mutually" in­ferring the dean, Father Zang, the hall staff, and the students involved. We in no way agree with this severe and completely unconstructive punishment. 
5) Certain statements and actions attributed in the article to John Di Pierto, R.A. were either misconstrued, taken out of context, or the result of in­formation given by other parties. 
We realize that mistakes do occur, but we also hope that in the future The Observer will check its facts more carefully. W also hope that The Observer will feel free to check with the students involved before printing facts in the future. 
Bill Oberhardt Chris Payne Terry Cavanaugh Mike Bonifer 
<Ed. note: The reporter did contact the students involved and it is his claim that the students requested that no opinions of any kind other than the facts be expressed in the article.) 
the observer 
Night Editor: Jack Frischkorn 
Asst. Night Editor: Ann McCarry Layout: Tom Devine 
Typists: Mary Romer, Connie Fourre, John Flannigan, Tom Modglin, Steve Roper, Carole Rechtsteiner 
Night Controller: Howard Halle 
Compugraphic: .. Bob Steinmetz Day Editor: Jim Rossini 
Copy Editor: Greg Aiello Pictureman: Jerome Visitors: The Virginia Gentleman and The Baltimore Kid ... and... Twinkle Stars 
~~-~---~-------------------­
1
Wednesday, October 10, 1973 
the observer 5 
I 
Farley Hall to host Notre Dame guests 
by Tom Kruczek Staff Reporter 

The weekend of October 12 will mark the official opening of the Farley Hall Guest Rooms for female visitors to Notre Dame. The hall has furnished ac­comadations for 36 women in the basement, which was remodeled last year to handle the over­crowding situation. 
Sister John Miriam Jones, S.C., assistant to the provost at Notre Dame stated that the university, "is conscious of the lack of over­night accomodations for guest to Notre Dame students and this is an attempt to fill the need." 
The beds, which are located in the eastern section of Farley Hall are in four separate rooms as well as an alcove, which will be the last section of guest rooms to be filled. 
Sister John stated that although the guest rooms have been open 
and  in  use  for  the  past  two  
weekends,  the  official  an­ 
nouncement  was  delayed  until  

yesterday, pending the naming of 
the R.A. A first year graduate student, Patricia McNamee, will assume these duties. McNamee will be the coordinator of the guest room service and can be reached for reservations by telephone at 7180. The best times that she can be reached to n1ake an advance room reservation is between 10-12 p.m. 
The one stipulation concerning reservations is that if the guest does not arrive t claim the room by 11 p.m., it will be considered an open room and will be given to another visitor. 
In addition, Sister John said, 20 cots have been purchased by the university for use by guests. These will be located in halls other than Farley, and will be made available for guests after the rooms in Farley have been filled. Reser­vations for these are made through the hall rectors. Price for use of the cots or guest rooms is $1 per night, and this will be for the cost of linens and for maid service to the rooms. 
LaFortune plans secret; renewal to start soon 
by David Lee Staff Reporter 

The committee to renovate LaFortune is stealthily working its way towards renewal of the student center. The need for secrecy seems imperative to the student planners. According to Dr. Ackerman, director of staff development, Student Affairs, the problem lies in the funding of the project. 
While the actual approval of the renovation has already been given by the Board of Trustees, the finances still remain a question. Donations are expected to be a major source of revenue and Dr. Ackerman sees the quoting of estimates of renovation as a possible deterrent to potential donors. 
While nothing definite has been agreed upon so far ,there seems to be a general consensus on the part of the committee members to give LaFortune an atmosphere of openness, de-emphasizing the present claustrophobic en­vironment of the student center. 
The committee has been con­sulting the organizations presently situated in LaFortune as to what improvements they might want in their offices. The committee also is consentrating on improvement of the public areas, possibly adding new furniture. 
The deadline for final agreement is unknown, but the committee is planning for the renovation of the Rathskeller to begin as soon as possible. They are projecting for work to begin at least by Christ­mas. The rest of the plans for LaFortune should be drawn up by mid November and renovation hopefully will start sometime in May. 
Communist. speaks Thursday: 

Lightfoot on Watergate 
by Jeanne Murphy 
Staff Reporter 

"Watergate Reveals a Moral and Political Crisis in the Nation" will be the topic of a lecture given by Dr. Charles M. Lightfoot, Thurs­day night, October 11, in the Galvin Life Science Building. Lightfoot is a leading black Communist in the United States, a member of the Political Bureau, and head of the Department of Black Liberation. 
During the '30's and '40's he participated in anti-facist ac­tivities at home and abroad working with leading German anti­fascists. 
ITALlAN & BRITISH SHAG & LAYER CUTS 
HAIR & SCALP ANALYSIS Sam Belardinella Mike McDonald FOR APPOINTMENTS 
CALL 
188-6661 
Closed Monday See Our New MEN'S DEN . featuring The Latest 
Fashians In Men's Clothes 
2303 S. MIAMI S. BEND 
Lightfoot has received the Dimitroff award which is in honor of the anti-fascist fighter George Dimitroff. He has also received the W.E.B. DuBois Award and was awarded a Doctor of Philosophy by the German Democratic Republic. 
Dr. Lightfoot has written various books such as Ghetto Revellion to Black Liberation, Black America and the World, and Racism and Human Survival: Lesson of Nazi Germany for Today's World. 
This guest appearance is sponsored by the Society of Ujamaa, the Department of Black Studies, and the Student Union Academic Commission. The lecture is scheduled for 7: 30 in Room 278 and is open to all stud­nets and faculty. 
JUST N. OF IIUSCHIIAUM'S PHARMAC"1 

Eightfantastic subscription 



flicks. 


CYRiLCl&cK 
IAN HOlM 
MIO-lAEI... ..JAYSTDN VMEN fltERCHN'iT 
BROCK PETERS MELBA l'a)RE RAYfv'DND sr~ES 
~IN.__._ 
KURT WEILL& 
LEE MARVIN FREDRIC MARCH 
ROBERT RYAN JEFF BRIDGES 
AlAN &.ITS
JESSICA TANCH 

I 
I 
I 
•
• 
sw:::t KEACH 
ROBERT STEPHENS HUGH GRIFFITH 
-!N~ 
-SCREEJ"FLAY BY__,...
EDWARD ANHALT 

ZEROMOSTEL 
GENE WILDER 
AND KAREN BlACK 
~IN.___. 
EUGENE IONESCOS 
MAXWEll. ANDERSON'S 

RICHARD OCAU.AGHAN 
-SCJEEKl\.AYBY-_..Af'llll\ DIRECTID BV-
ALFRffi HAYES HARQLD PINTER 
Great plays transformed into great new movies by your kind of writers, directors, stars. 
One Monday and Tuesday a month, October through May. Four showings, two evenings and two matinees, and that's it. 
Starts October 29th and October 30th at a local popcorn factory (see theatre list below). 
r··················~
EXHIBITION DATES 
I HERE'S WHERE YOU
I GO TO JOIN THE AMERICAN FILM THEATRE
I I 

MISHAWAKA
I

I Town & Country 
SPECIAL COLLEGE DISCOUNT 
Seats are limited. Get down to the box office (or Ticketron) with a check. Eight evenings: $30. Eight matinees: $16 for students and faculty, $24 for everybody else. 
~ 
THE AMERICAN FilM THEATRE 
1350Ave.ol the Americas, N.Y.. N.Y. 10019 Phone: (212) 489-8820 
THE AMERICAN fILM THEATRt IS A PRlS[NTATION OF 
AMERICAN EXPRESS FILMS, INC. 
AND THE ELY LANDAU ORGANIZATION. INC. 
IN ASSOCIATION WITH CINEVISION LTtE. (CANADA! 
1 
MondaySeries TuesdaySeries 
I 
29 1973 Oct 3o. 1973
Oct •
Nov. 12, 1973 Nov. 13, 1973 Dec. 10,1973 Dec 11,1973 Jan. 21. 1974 Jan. 22, 1974 
Feb.4, 1974 Feb.5, 1974 
Mar.11, 1974 Mar.12, 1974 AprilS, 1974 April9, 1974 
May6, 1974 May7, 1974 
~ 

.................. 
I I I I 
~ 
---------------~------­
Wednesday, October 10, 1973
the observer
6 . 
\. .·. ~ \',•,\.',\ .\· .. .. 
............

WOOF! ~WOOF! 
Earl star guard at St. 
by Judy Rauenhorst Staff Reporter 
St. Mary's security house is more than the ordinary security house. Since last March the building has been the home of Earl, an old English sheepdog. 
"We kind of adopted Earl as the 
campus mascot," said Director of 
Security Anthony Kovatch. Last 
year Mrs. Ann Duncan left Earl 
with Kovatch while she went to 
visit her twin daughters in Rom on 
the Sophomore Year Abroad 
Program. Somehow, Earl ex­
tended his stay and Kovatch thinks 
Earl is "going to be with us 
forever." 

Kovatch and the other security guards enjoy having Earl around. "Earl is really good and causes no problems. ·He is a character but very intelligent, always keeping the rabbits and squirrels on their toes. The guards spoil Earl by sneaking him goodies when I am not around and the students always take him for walks," Kovatch said. 
Just three years old, Earl makes a good watchdog. "He barks at boys, not girls, and he can make a lot of noise," Kovatch said. Earl is a part of the night patrol and "loves it." He goes into each building with the guard and helps to close things up. 
"The dog's registered name is Earl of York," explained Beth, one of the Duncan twins, "becaus we 

Director Kovatch with Earl. 

Thieves break into Huddle 
Security thwarts burglary 
Four youths from New Jersey visiting friends at Notre Dame last weekend were. chased, ap­prehended, and booked in the South Bend City Jail early Sunday morning by the combined forces of South Bend and Roseland police, the Sheriff Department, and Notre Dame security, after the students tried to steal food from the Huddle. 
The pursuit was instigated at approximately 1:30a.m. Sunday morning, when Huddle employee Dan Flint surprised the men in the Huddle back storage room, in the act of taking the food, and he and Huddle manager, Tom Rosheck, 
chased the group to their car parked behind the Huddle. 
A patrolling security officer failing to stop the youths alerted ND's mobile unit, which took up the chase when the "small, blue" car emerged at the Library Circle. The car was apprehended at the Redbird gas station in Roseland, after a wild chase, which netted the four charges of reckless driving, running stop signs and lights, and resisting arrest, and resulted in three of the youths being held in lieu of $100 bond, and the fourth for more, in the South Bend city jail, according to police spokesman. 
The car, bearing a C-3 parking sticker, almost struck an ND security officer who tried to "get in their way." He then radioed ND's motorized unit that the car was cutting across the Library lawn. When finally apprehended the car was found to contain a loaf of bread, a box of chocolate mix pack, and a box of cheese spread. Also found were three bottles of beer, according to witnesses. 
Notre Dame Security Director Arthur Pears was not available for comment. 
It was learned last night that the four youths were arraigned in the county court yesterday. 
Placement Bureau sign-up 
by Ellen Duffy Staff Reporter 

Seniors and graduate students-­interested in a job? There will be sign-up schedules in Room 207 of the Main Building of the Placement Bureau. You must select ·and sign-up for your in­terview time in person. Interviews will be held from 8:00a.m. to 5:00p.m. each day, except Friday. The Placement Manual gives additional information regarding interviews and procedures. Below is the list of dates and corresponding organizations that will be holding the interviews. 
OCTOBER 15 Crowe, Chizek and Company. BBA in Acct. MBA with Acct. background. JD. John Hancock Mutual Life Ins. Co. B in Lib. Arts, Bus. Ad. and Math. Montgomery County Adult Probation Dept. B in An­thropology, Philosophy, Psychology, Sociology. Naval Air Development Center. B, M in E.E., A.E. and M.E. Old Kent Bank & Trust Co. All BBA. Rochester, University of, Grad. 

RESEARCH 
Thousands of Topics $2.75 per page Send for your up-to-date, 160-page, 
mail order catalog. 1Enclose $1.00 to cover postage {delivery tfme is 1 to 2 days). 
RESEARCH ASSISTANCE, INC. 11941 WILSHIRE BLVD., SUITE #2 LOS ANGELES, CALIF. 90025 (213) 477-8474 or 477-5493 
Our research material is sold for research assistance only. 
. \ .., 
. ' 

School of Bus. All interested students. Universal Oil Products Co. B, M in Ch. E. 
OCTOBER 16 Clow Corporation. All BBA. B in M.E.andM.E.I.O. Doeren, Mayhew, Grob & McNamara. BBA in Acct. Mobil Oil Corporation. B,M,D in Ch. E. and M.E. B, Min C.E. and 
M.E.I.O. 
M, D in Chern. Monterey Institute of Foreign Studies. All interested students. National Steel. Bin E.E., M.E. and 

M.E.I.O. 
B,M in Ch. E. and Met. Northwestern Mutual Life Ins. Co. B, M. in Lib. Arts and Bus. Ad. Pfizer Inc. B, M in Ch. E., M.E., 

M.E.I.O. 
and Met. 



OCTOBER 17 Northern Indiana Public Service Co. B in Acct. and E.E. American National Bank &Trust Co. of Chicago. MBA with Fin. background. Morse Chain, Division of Borg-
Warner. All BBA. BS in Engr. Mutual of New York. (Chicago) B in Lib. Arts and Bus. Ad. JD. PPG Industries. Bin Chern., M.E., E.E., M.E.I.O. and Ch.E. Scott Paper Company. B, Min Lib. Arts and Bus. Ad. 
OCTOBER 17-18 Alexander Grant & Co. BBA in Acct. 
OCTOBER 18 Boston College-School of Law All interested students. <Sign-up at Pre-law Society in O'Shaughnessy). Harvard University-Grad. School of Bus. Ad. All degrees. Internal Revenue Service. All BBA. Stone & Webster Engineering Corp. B, M in C.E., M.E. and E.E. 
U.A. Army Materiel Command. B,M ·in M.E., E.E. and A.E. Walker Manufacturing Co. All BBA. BS in M.E., E.E. and M.E.I.O. 


the distillery 
Liquor Store 1723 South Bend 

272-9800 Open till 11 :00 Fri. & Sat. 
East on Edison-Take a left at the Linebacker -200 yds. on left JIM & CHUCK .BOTH ALUMN'S 
We have ice cold wines. ,Great for parties: VODKA OR Gl N' $8.98 for 112 gallon
1 DISCOUNTS ON CASES OF LIQUOR & WINE 
. "' ... 


Mary's 

live on York Drive in Hudson, 
Charter Group Flight to Orient call Toll Free 
Ohio. Earl is a real sheepherder's (800) 227-1969 (u.s.dog and it is inbred that he does not eat lamb." • except California) Duncan observed that Earl has calmed down a lot since he has (800) 982-5827 been at St. Mary's. "He loves to (California only)girl-watch and he gets more at­tention here than at home. I know If you plan a trip tohe is really enjoying himself and is Japan, Hong Kong &glad to be a part of St. Mary's," Duncan said. Orient, make sure _ Duncan's roommate added, "I giv: us a call -a big think Earl is the most popular guy savmgs. on campus."  
TOMORROW NIGHT! NO's * PETE SNAKE* Live at LOUIE'S BAR 744 N. NOTRE DAME Aco.ustic music Fri. 9-1 2 Come Join Us For A H••• of a Time I  
.THE MIAMI BEACH WORLD AND DISNEYWORLD Sign Up For the .••and get the Senior Class Best of Trip... Both Worlds (A l-Travel Bureau) Ques. call Bob or Charlie 233-9555  

LEARN TO JUMP 

' \~. 


MCPC Inc. Skydiving center 

Athletic and

NOTRE_ DAME 
Convocation Center 
Ticket Prices: 
Bleachers ___________ $3.00 Lower Arena_. _______ $5.50 
Loge _________ •____ • $6.50 Platform _________ •• _$6.50 Floor Seats __________ $6.50 

Tickets on sale: ACC 
(Mon-Sat 9 to 5) 

and Student Union Ticket Office. 
·,• 
• • ' • ' • " .. ~ ol " .... _., ·" ·" ....." ... ' " ~ '\.' • 
• • ' • • " ' I " ~ " " 
. I I 0 J , .. ~ 
Wednesday, October 10, 1973 
the ·observer· ''' 7 
HPC hears Machecta on punishment 
(continued from page I) 
realized and would consider the argument that the halls requesting large banquet funds did so because they have either no specific need for physical improvements (as in the case of Stanford) or else no capacity to accomodate per­
manent  recreational  or  study  
facilities  (as  in  the  case  of St.  
Edward's(.  

The committee, according to Baranowski, is still open to all arguments and suggestions con­cerning how it should handle the granting of such requests. Also any 
hall wishing to resubmit its request to the committee may do so before this Saturday. This op­portunity is especially designed for those halls fearing that their previous request might not be granted. 
Baranowski also amentioned that requests regarding allocations for electrical rewiring will not be granted from the Hall Life Fund, but rather should be directed to the office of Fr. Wilson, vice president of business affairs, because they 
Rebozo investigated 

(continued from page 3) 
House. 
Nixon borrowed $625,000 for the down payment from another close friend, Robert H. Abplanalp. Later the President sold 23 acres of land surrounding the home to a land corporation headed by Ab­planalp and Rebozo for $1,249,000. 
Chester Davis, also a Hughes agent, was questioned by com­mittee staff in executive session on Monday night, apparently about the $100,000. 
Investigator!': ..;aid the first of the two payments to Rebozo took place in July, 1969, a month after President Nixon's approval of the sale of an airline, Air' West, to Hughes. 
They said the second payment occurred in 1970, shortly before the Justice Department reversed an antitrust action which barred Hughes from expanding his gambling and hotel empire in Las Vegas. 
Sen. Lowell P. weicker, (R­Conn.) told reporters he would liek to see both Rebozo and Highes testigy in public before the com­mittee. 
Other congessional committees have tried but failed to deliver subpoenas upon the reclusive Hughes, who now lives in London. 
In public hearings, the com­mittee today was to hear from Michael McMonway who has told investigators he infiltrated the presidential campaigns of three Demcoratic senators. 

Arab-Israeli conflict 

(continued from page I) 
mentioned the Middle East war during a welcoming ceremony at the White House for Ivory Coast President Felix Houphouet­Boigny. The two cnferred for 90 minutes after Houpheout-Boigny's arrival. 
Later, at a luncheon, Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger echoed Nixon's remarks. "When this crisis is over, as surely it will be relatively soon, we confront the problem of achieving a permanent peace," Kissinger said. 
Deputy White House press secretary Gerald L. Warren said Nixon met early .. Tuesday with 
Kissinger to get latest reports on 
the war and diplomatic efforts to end it. He also received reports
from U. N. ambassador John Scali. Warren declined to say whether 
~~~e;i1~£es~~~~~s.~~~ .}~diti?n.~~·.•.' 
fall under the classification of hall maintenance. "Unless the need is especially great and the hall is unable to finance the rewiring through its own means, such as the profit of its food sales," he warned, "there is no guarantee that Fr. Wilson will grant such a request." Fisher and Sorin halls had sub­mitted such requests to the Hall Life Fund allocation committee. 
The committree reviewing the requests for allocations of the Hall Life Funds consists of Fred Baranowski, HPC chairman; Pat McLaughlin, HPC executive coordinator; Wally Glaasior, president of Dillon; Bob Chong, president of Howard; Ray Vorce, a 
HPC Chairman Baranowski 


Dean Search 

College and has announced his intention to resign at the end of the 1973-74 school year in order to return to teaching. 
Other new appointments in the College include Vincent R. Raymond as an associate dean, and Dr. Francis A. Yeandel as assistant dean. Raymond has been with the university since 1957 and Yeandel is a 1966 graduate of Notre Dame and has a doctoral degree in Student Government represen­
however, be granted any portion The HPC had formally requested 
tative; and Kathy Cekanski, 
of the Hall Life Fund. the director of the campus laundry 
rectress of Breen-Phillips 
The HPC also decided to invite service to attend the meeting to
In other business last night the 
Dean of Students John Macheca to answer questions concerning
hall presidents decided to allow 
its meeting in two weeks to discuss student complaints, but he failed to
Moreau Seminary to send a non­
the Sorin party violations incident. appear. The director said that he
voting representative to the HPC 
Several of the presidents felt that would have been very happy to
meetings. Moreau will not, 
the punishment alloted to the listen to any gripes the !:'tudents violalaters was to harsh and ex­might have, but that .:.. TuesdayAthletis, Reds pressed fears that similar actions night is his bowling night and that might await their own halls. takes preference. 

take games 
The Oakland Atheltics took a 2-1 

CLASSIFIED ADS 
lead over the BaltimoreOrioles in the American Leag• <e baseball playoffs Tuesday, and the Cin­cinnati Reds gained a two-all tie with the New York Mets in the National Leauge. 
Both Cincinnati and Oakland won 2-1 victories in extra innings Tuesday. 
Pete Rose blasted a 12th inning homer to give the Reds the 
triumph  at  New  York,  Bert  
Campaneris'  11th  inning  homer  
provided  the  victory  over  
Baltimore.  

LOIS TRANTER 259-1981 CRAIG KAPSON 259-1981 
.............;."''•''•'''""'"" 
IREHT·A·cAR] 

Jordan Ford 
609 East Jefferson Mishawaka 
NOTICES 

Morrissey Loan Fund can loan up to $150 at 1 per cent interest, 1 day waiting period. Basement of Lafortune 11: 15­
12:15 Mon. -Fri. 
GSU SOCIAL COMMITTEE is looking for members. Be a 
BPOC; fringe benefits, retirement plan, etc. Call Paul B. at 6615 or 272-7405. 
PITTSBURGH CLUB-THERE IS A BUS TO PITTSBURGH FOR SEMESTER BREAK. PAYMENT DUE SUN OCT 
14 7 PM LAFOUTUNE AMPHITHEATER (1stFLOOR)QUESTIONS BOB 2127 JOHN 1786. 
EUROPEAN STUDY TOUR: 
Dec. 27-Jan 15 England, Ireland, Scotland and wales. 3 College credits a ible . $679 all expenses from NY. For in. formation call Prof. A.R. 
Black SMC 4948. 
Students interested in Nd-SMC Gay Student Alliance call 7768, Wed oc Fri. 7-9 pm. 
Junior League Thrift Shop Sale over 30,000 new and used items, funiiture, clothing, housewares, etc. 4-H fairgrounds Sat. Oct. 13, 9am . 5pm. Free parking, Free admission. 
Women  of  ND-SMC  com­ 
munity:  Call  for  informa ion  
now  for  the  Dl LLON  HALL  

HOMECOMING QUEEN CONTEST. Phone 1800, 1863or 1796, Prizes galore! Deadline Oct. 22 so call today. 
MEN! WOMEN! JOBS ON SH 1 PS! no experience required . Excellent pay. Worldwide rtravel. Perfect summer job or carreer. Send $3 for info to SEAFAX, Dept. L-16, PO Box 2049, Port Angeles, Wash. 98362. 
Take the Greyhound to Chicago every Friday at 3:55 from the Circle. Call Tom Boyer 272­1807 for Information. 
LOST AND found 

High school class ring lost near rock. $5 reward, 8763. 
PERSONALS 

To MR. and MRS. Brendon T. (Teddy) Bearski, Goldy. locks with the lump and scrambled brain (whos been sleeping in your bed?) the Southern 
Belle(closet woman) and the naive Enchantress (If your motheronlyknew!): Ya'llsho is goud peaple! Thanx for fun, laughter and freindship. "Damn Educated Nut" ( one for three aint bad). 
KAC--Hi Fatso! Right place, wrong time? Jim the townie. 
FOR SALE 

MEERSCHAUM PIPES! 
Exceptional values, per­sonalized service. Catalog. 
PMP Co. Box 444 Gaither­sburg, Md. 20760. 
CraS;J R·to -R tape deck. BSR turntable. Phone Tom 288­4297. 
Yamaha guitar F6-:l!O(retail $300( ROSEWOOD INLAID PEARL, ADJUSTABLE 
BRIDGE, HARDSHELL CASE. Excellent condition . David 8427. 
'68 Mustang-6cyl. dk. blue, very good condition-see at NO stadium gate 1 or call 272-9983 (Greg) after 5. 
'63 VW, good condition. Will dicker. 272-2445. 

YOU DON'T HAVE TO BE A SENIOR TO ENJOY THE SENIOR WAY OF LIFE 
+MIAMI BEAC +DISNEYWORL +PARTIES NO VS MIAMI 

SIGN UP NOW 
FOR THE SENIOR TRIP CALL 233-9555 




NICKlE'S 
Makes you another offer you can't refuse! ! 
TQN I G H T .1 QUARTS Of BEER 504 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . ·1 0. 1 2 p,.m. 
~---------------------~~--------------~ 
WANTED 
I am going to be disowned unless I get 3-4 GA tix for my father for any home game but Air Force. Will pay $$. Call 
IJJ77. 
Desperately need GA tix for the Army and Navy games. Call 1364. 
Need GA tix to USC. Call Phil 1598. 
Desperate! y need 8 stud. USC tix. Will Meet inflationary demands. Call Pat. 288-5563. 
Need tix to the USC game. Please call Dan at 282-1568. 
Need 2-6 GA tix for USC. Will pay reasonably exobitant prices. Also need 2 
Need 2-6 GA tix .for USC . Will pay reasonably exorbittant prices. 232-2973. 
Need 2 GA tix Navy. Call 272. 0520. 
Need 2 USC tix. Call Chuck 234­2542. 
Desperately need 2 USC tix. Call 287-1178 after 10 pm. 
Need 2 USC tix. Call Michele 4161. 
Parttime help needed in car wash near campus. Hours weekdays 7: :ll am -3pm. $1.80 hr. Call 291-2673. 
Need many Navy fix. Will pay well. Rich 7802. 
Need 2-4 GA tix USC. Call Scott 1598. 
Need 2 GA tix for Navy. Will pay. George 287-5698. 
Vista volunteer needs licensed driver. Share driving vicinity Clayton Georgia. One way trip. 
Car expenses paid. Must leave by O:::t. 17. Time negotiable. Call 287-8116. 
Want roommate 832 ND Ave. Apt 2-A. Zl3-1302. Zl3-1302. 
Need 1stud. + 1 GA USC or 2 GA USC tix. Call Steve 233· 1302. 
I want to rent or buy Electric or Acoustic piano. 232-9747. 
Desperately need 3 GA USC tix. Call 7835 now. 
Need 3 USC tix, 4 Navy tix. Call Tom 6522. Will pay. 
Need Army tix. Call Tom 232­2693. 
Need 4 or 2 pair GA USC tix. Will pay premium price. Call 
Terry 3478. 
RIDES WANTED 

Need ride to Cincinnatti round trip Oct 12. Share$$. Call Matt 8573. Please help. 
Ride needed to Milwaukee for break. Can leave Thurs. af­ternoon. Will drive and pay$$. Call 3317 ask for AI. 
Need ride to Green Bay area. Call 4561. 
FOR RENT 

Room for rent. 8 min. form ND. Call 232-4545. 
Rooms $40 mo. Rides to school Zl3-1329. 
.. 

Wednesday, October 10, 1973
the observer 
Notre Dame ruggers run 
streak to n:ine; down UM 
by John Turchan 
The Notre Dame Rugby team extended its undefeated streak to 9 games with a Saturday win over Michigan. The final score was 33-3. 
The game opened as an even contest with the larger Michigan club unable to move against the speedier Notre Dame team. 
Michigan attempted to kick the ball out its own territory but Joe Hafner blocked the kick and raced down the sideline for ND's first try, and Ed O'Connell kicked the extra point. 
O'Connell scored the next three points on a 30 yard penalty kick into the wind. 
Tom Hastings first score of the day followed on a quick run up the sideline. Ed O'connell added the extra point. 
Michigan then provided some of its own excitement with a hastily but well executed drop kick for their only score of the game. 
Pete Franz's try came at the end of a drive which saw the Notre Dame serum continually pressure the Michigan offensive attack. Ed O'Connell added the conversion. 
Tom Hastings epeed accounted for the next try. Hastings caught the ball deep in his own territory. With a swift cut that popped him free of the first onrush of tacklers Hastings sped down the sideline and outraced the last Michigan defender. EdO'Connell'sbid for the extra point was good; and the half ended the score being 27-3. 
Team captain Tom Masenga accounted for the only try of the second half. His ten yard run 


OBSERVER 
SPORTS 
Greg Corgan 
c===================================================================================================== 
Extra PQint~s 

For. Notr~ Dame the Southwest conference is a relatively unknown quantity. In Its 86 years of college football competition, the Irish have met Southwest Conference opponents a mere 20 times. Nonetheless, Notre Dame has won 16 of these contests while losing only four; the last victory coming against Texas Christian a year ago, a 21-o shutout and the most recent loss being to the Texas Longhorns in the 1969 Cotto~ Bowl 21-17. 
With that in mind, consider the fact that this Friday coach Ar~ Par­seghian and his 1973 Irish will travel to Houston to play the Rice Owls on Saturday night. Notre Dame has faced Rice University only once before in 1915, with ND winning overwhelmingly 55-2. But that was 58 years ago' and Saturday night, the Irish will face that "unknown quantity" again: for a number of reasons. 
First of all, by the time the game is played on Saturday night, Rice will have had 14 days to prepare. The Owls have not played since Sept. 29 when they lost to L.S.U. 24-9, and this means that they will have had time to make all sorts of new adjustments in their offensive and defensive strategies. 
"They will have had two weeks to prepare for us and they can do anything," noted Parseghian. "They do everything you can imagine. Theyrun Houston'sveer, they play option football, and sometimes they have as many as three split receivers. So we'll have to be prepared for anything." 
Secondly, Notre Dame will be playing in hostile territory. Although the Dallas area is ND land,Texas fans, on the whole, arenearlyas brutal as those Tiger fans in Baton Rouge. So far this season Rice has averaged 18,000 fans per game. Two weeks ago, all 70,000 seats had been sold out and no doubt at least 60,000 of those people will be there to see Notre Dame lose. 
Said Coach Parseghian, "This game is their whole season. All they've talked about down there since the beginning of the year is the Notre Dame game." He went on, "There's nothing the Southwest Conference would like more than to beat a team from the Midwest, the Fighting Irish." 
The idea of unknown quantity extends beyond this however. The Irish could find themselves playing in hot, humid weather, something they haven't been used to as late; something Rice has coped with all year. 
The Owls have not been impressive in their first three games this seas­on. They lost to Houston in their opener 24-6 and then beat Montana at home 21-10. At the end of the first half against L.S.U., however, they led 9­0 in Baton Rouge and although they eventually lost 
they had the Tigers somewhat shaken. ' 
Furthermore, Rice Coach AI Conover may have some offensive tricks up his sleeve. "We'll throw fifty per cent of the time," he said "and Mike Townsend won't intercept three of them." Townsend was q~ick to add however, "Heneversaid anything about tour or five though, did he?" ' 
One more unknown has to do with the Irish offense which was indeed sporadic against both Purdue and Michigan State. But the Irish are in the midst of a hard week of work and offense has been the focal point. Tur­novers hav~ been. the main problem and although it's not something concrete With which to work, Coach Parseghian emphasized "con­centration" yesterday at the award session. And concentration has a lot todo with ultimate performance as well as a minimum of mistakes. 
A minimum of offensive mistakes and what has become expected defensive excellence is what the Irish will need to cope with this "unknown quantity." 
Hopefully, in doing so, the Irish will avoid any "Missouri" repeats. 
highlighted another Notre Dame drive. 
Jeff Warnimont, Notre Dame's team fullback, explained some of the reasons for Saturday's success. "The Notre Dame played a dif­ferent type of game against Michigan than in years past." "Saturday we out-played Michigan we beat them with finesse." He added, "The play of the backs was the best it has been all season." This opinion was echoed by Bob Olsen team secretary, "the backs won the game for us, they played fantastic." 
In the A game Notre Dame defeated Michigan 19-Q in a hard­hitting contest. Scorers for the Irish were: Rich Wilkes with a penalty kick, Dave Olesak with two trys, and Dave Ward with two trys. 
Notre Dame's next Rugby game will be played on Friday night of the homecoming weekend on Cartier Field. 



Irish crews edge MSU 
Notre Dame Crews swept both of their races against Michigan State in almost perfect weather con­ditions on the St. Joseph river on Saturday, October 6. 

The varsity lighweight eight had The Notre Dame Sailing team the fastest time on the 1500 meter finished third out of eight teams in course with clocking a 5:08. The team racing competition this past
ND heavyweight varsity took weekend on Lake Mendota in second with a 5:10, and Michigan Wisconsin. State came in third six seconds 
The Irish got off to a slow startlater. 
by losing to Ohio State, but then
The Freshmen nipped the 

came on strong to beat Iowa,Michigau State Frosh by two Northwestern, and Wisconsin'sseconds with a 3:26 in the 1000m second team.
sprint. 

In the light winds of Sunday
Saturday, Oct. 13 both the Fresh­morning's competition, Notre men and Varsity will race Purdue 
Dame had a chance to win if theyand Morris Harvey at In­
could beat Wisconsin's first team dianapolis. Notre Dame has not to force a tie and a special sail-off 
beaten Purdue in five years. 

with Ohio State. But in that race with Wisconsin misfortune struck the Irish squad. With Junior skipper Jon Makielski holding a comfortable lead in the race a Wisconsin sailor deliberately w~nt for a collision with Senior AI Constants. 

Constants tried to avoid the collision as the Wisconsin boat had the right of way, but the light winds prevented such swift action. With Constants out of the race Sophomore Rob Gaw had to place second behind Makielski to take the match, but the 2 to 3 disad­vantage and the light winds took their toll and the Irish lost it. 
Mike To'Wnsend--master thief 
by Hal Munger 
When Mike Townsend picked off that errant Charlie Bagget pass on the ND 16 yard line Saturday, it was his 13th career theft, and it vaulted him into second place on the all-time Notre Dame career pass interception list. Angelo Bertelli, the 1943 Heisman Trophy winner, is Mike's mate in the recore books, each player having 12 steals. Such is the high caliber company the senior from Hamilton, Ohio has kept throughout his athletic career. 

Besides the career record, Mike share the ND interception-per­game record and owns the ND record for interceptions in a year. Townsend's is the most recent 
name to appear in the books with three interceptions in the 21-7 victory over Air Force last season. He led the nation in interceptions last year with ten thefts. Nine of the steals came in the last five games of the season. 
This year Mike is once again haunting opposing quarterbacks and receivers. He has already swiped two aerials. In the opening game, Mike stepped in front of a Northwestern pass in the endzone to salvage a shutout. Then, in the Michigan State game, he made the victory-saving catch and returned it 47 yards to the MSU 37. 
His teammates respect his abilities so much they picked him to be their defensive captain this season. Townsend was awarded the Hering award in spring drills as the outstanding defensive safetyman. In the 14 games Mike Townsend has started since the ?eginning of his junior year, he has mtercepted 12 passes for an average of .86 per game. Tom MacDonald's Notre Dame career record of 15 interceptions does not seem out of Mike's reach. 

He is not concerned with the record books, however. The modest senior is thinking only of Rice at the moment. The Owls possess a wide open offense, are extremely quick, and throw about 50 per cent of the time. "Versatile" is the word Mike used to describe them. The defense is ready says Mike. "We're looking for a shutout. We've been scored upon and the defense doesn't like that. Per­sonally, I'm psyched." 
Mike is an unselfish man He co­nstantly speaks of the defen~e as ; unit not elaborating on his own merits. Each of the starters are great but Mike quickly adds "The second team is just as good as the first." If any of the first teamers were hurt the subs wuld fill in so adequately that "you wouldn't be able to tell the difference." Sophomore Bob Zanot and freshma Willie Fry are two examples Mike 
. sights. . 

The youthful defense is a tremendous asset rather than a detriment for the Irish, Townsend believes. "Sure we've made mistakes but they've been just mental mistakes. We're im­proving. The defense is learning to play together. Some of the young guys get scared but with the older guys there, they don't 
feel thepressureso bad." So far 
the young defense has held up quite well. 
Defensive backfield coach Paul Shoults deserves a lot of praise Townsend says. "He really knows his stuff. He gets the best of of each player. Coach Shoults is able to 'find' great backs. He just spots them." Among the fine defensive backs "found" by Shoults have been Clarence Ellis, Mike Crotty and Ralph Stepaniak. Add to the list Mike Townsend, Reggie Barnett, Tim Rudnick, and Luther Bradley. 
The toughest receiver Mike's 
had  to  guard  has  been  Lynn  
Swann.  "Some  guys  have  great  
speed.  Some  guys  have  good  

moves. Swann has both," Town­send explains. During the past two winters Mike has competed for the Irish 
basketball team. The length of the football season will determine whether Mike plays this year. 
Mike wants to play pro football and is a definite candidate for All­America honors. It's been said by some that Mike's tackling isn't good enough so he's working harder on that phase of his game. With the confident determination shown by Townsend already, the chances are good that he wll make both. 
Earlier in his career, Mike Townsend said, "My biggest goal in life is to make something of myself." Mike has so far made more of his 21 years than many make of an entire lifetime. The example he has set for fellow players and his followers is of immeasurable value. 





