On The Inside 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VII No. 117 Thursday, April 26, 1973 

SBP and Commissioners 
to be elected today 
by Terry Keeney include a surplus of Student Government funds, a Staff Reporter more effective Ombdusman service, and construction of a bus shelter in the near future. 
Notre Dame students vote today to elect the next "We've accomplished quite a bit this year," said Student Body President and a new board of Com­Etienne." I can't make any promises for next year. missioners. They are to choose among the three What happens next year depends on what the students tickets running for SBP and the eight candidates vying do. The theory all year has been to get students to take for six vacant seats on the Board of Commissioners. the initiative. I don't foresee any changes in that, if re­
elected." 

The three SBP tickets of Rick Gering-Kevin O'Brien, "I've read that Etienne is running on his record," Dennis Etienne-Mike Geisinger, and Brian McGinty­said Brian McGinty." Yet he didn't mention that Bill McLean did little or no formal campaigning last Student Government sat back while everybody got night. kicked off-campus!" 
Candidates Rick Gering and Kevin O'Brien showed McGinty and his running-mate Bill McLean, this free movies of Charlie Chaplin and W. C. Fields in year's Ombudsman, believe that Student Government LaFortune Ballroom last night in an effort to was out of touch with the students this year. McGinty demonstrate one of the major goals of their campaign. claimed that studetn government suffered from a lack 
"I'd like to see something going on every night," of communication with key Administration figures. said Gering. "There are so many nights around here "Student Government hasn't stuck its neck out all with nothing to do, no place to go to meet people. The year. They just sat on the housing problem," said thing is to make everything we can free." McGinty. "Being on the Ombudsman staff we have 
Gering wants Student Government to assume a run the gamut of Student Government functions. We larger role in providing the students with more low­deal with the students every day, Etienne does not." key social activities such as free movies, coffeehouses, Ombudsman McLean balked at the proposal of rival and concerts. SBP candidate Rick Gering to "reinvigorate" the 
Gering proposed the appointment of a lawyer of las Ombudsman service. "If Gering thinks we're not student as Student Body "Public Defender" who would handling the problems of the University through the assist and advise students of University regulations Ombudsman's office, I'd like to know what he ex­and judicial proceedings. Gering also called for a pects," commented McLean. Procedural Protection clause in the University McLean, in calling for a student Government to Judicial Code. He believes that had such a clause been serve the day-to-day needs of the student as well as in effect this year, "the Lewis Hall Incident" would make long--range plans, cited that "We need new have been avoided. experience as well as new blood." 
Acc.:>rding to Gering student complaints about the In the Board of Commissioners races four of the six Administration and Student Government must be districts have candidates running unopposed·. In channeled through student Government. He plans to district 5, which consists of the two Towers, Mike Hess enlarge the scope of the office of Ombudsman to in­is running unopposed. The only candidate in district 6, clude these new functions. <Pangborn, Fisher, Lyons, Morrissey, and Howard) is 
The ticket of Dennis Etienne-Mike Geisinger did not Bob Cinnolly. campaigning last night. Etienne, this year's Student District 2 sees Karen Moty running alone with Pat Body Vice-President, explained, "Because of the short Dore conducting a write-in campaign to win the right campaign and thefact that I had a jump all year on all to represent Farley, Breen-Phillips, St. Ed's, and the candidates, I'm not doing any campainging." Cavanaugh Halls. 
Etienne and his running mate Mike Geisinger, Christopher McManus and Bob Kincaid are vying
former assistant Student Body Treasurer, believe that for district 1-the off-(!ampus seat. The contest m the students are familiar with them and are running on district 4, consisting of Holy Cross~ St. Joe's, Stanford, the accomplishments of this year's Student Govern­Keenan, and Zahm Halls, is between Matt Kubik and ment. Accoridng to Etienne, these accomplishments Ed Rahill. 
New AAUP head sees more active faculty 
by Jim Ferry Dennis Dugan. to the story in yesterday's Ob­
would not have given its approval" Staff Reporter server. to the appointment. Dugan, who is also the chairman 
"The point is that the faculty wasThe American Association of of the economics department, "Rumors of my resignation are never officially asked about theUniversity Professors chapter at succeeds former president and greatly exaggerated," said Rath­appointment," which, he said, setsNotre Dame will take a more English professor Paul A. Rath­burn. "I didn't resign, a regular a precedent for future ap­active role in the university next burn. Rathburn's term as chapter election was held." 

pointments.

year according to the newly­president has just ended and he did 
elected AAUP president, Professor not resign from the post, contrary Dugan, commenting on future 
Rathburn also stressed the AAUP thrusts, said that there importance of the AAUP chapter were certain things in the meeting that will be held on May 2 
University "that beg a response" .at the University Club. The 
and that the AAUP would take the meeting, which is open to all 
"appropriate" posture towards faculty members and students. 
those issues. . The standing committees of the 
AAUP will all present their annual Dugan went on to comment that reports at the meeting. many of these issues "center 
The Committee A report onaround the government of the academic freedom, the Committee university." He added that "the Z report on.salariesand economics AAUP has always been concerned Professor Dennis Dugan of the profession and the Lewiswith academic freedom and that Hall report will be presented.

posture will be held." Rathburn predicted that Dugan 
Of particular interest, according would work hardest in the area of to Rathburn, will be the presen­

Citing the action of the AAUP's university governance. 
tation of the Committee W report "Committee W" in recommending "The AAUP has explicitly · on the status of women on thealternatives to university policy in rejected the notion that a Notre Dame faculty.

the area of chi!Q bearing, Dugan university is a place where all

saw the Committee as taking a Rathburn commented that ''you
power flows from the top. A
"worthwhile role," one which he just can't have a faculty this large 
university is not a 'business'. The
felt "should be pursued." with only one tenured woman."
students are not 'products'. The The newly-elected AAUP of­faculty members are not 'em­
Professor Rathburn, com­ficers will also be installed at the
ployees'. The analogy of the
The Hoi~ Cr.oss Missions recently acknowledged receipt of a menting on Dugan's election, was meeting. Besides Dugan, the
business world simply doesn't
$7500 con~Ib~t10n from the proceeds of this year's Bengal Bouts. encouraged by the large turnout of newly-elected officers are: Vice
work."
The contributiOn, largest ever from the Bouts will go toward the AAUP members who voted in the President Edward Trubac of the "massive relief and rehabilitation program" ~f the missionaries election. 65 per cent out of nearly Referring to the controversy Department i of Business f. according to Rev. Arnold A. Fell, C.S.B.,Director. Pictured fro~ 300 AAUP members voted, and surrounding the selection of the ministration, Secretary Char ~ left ~re Ben~al Bouts director Dominic Naplitano, Boxing Club Rathburn said that he fe~i it was Provost, Rathburn commented Murdoc of the Law School, 6 Presi~ent .Mike Suddes, Rev. William T. Craddic, C.S.C., and "indicative that the AAUP was that the AAUP "had never Treasurer Maurice Schwartz of 
Athletic Director Moose Krause. responsive to university issues." suggested that the ND faculty College of Science. 
r' ~ 
I I 



the observer Thursday, April 26, 1973 
warld briefs 
(c) 1973 New York Times 

Washington -The Wtite House announced Wednesday that Henry A. Kissinger would return to Paris next month for new talks with LeDuc Tho aimed at achieving "strict implementation" of the cease-fire agreement. Aides to Kissinger and Hanoi's cheif negotiator will begin preliminary discussions today (Thursday) to set the stage for the revived Paris talks scheduled for mid-May. 
Washington -The census Bureau disclosed that it had missed an estimated 5.3 million Americans in the 1970 head count, a 2.5 per cent oversight it called significantly smaller than errors in recent cen­suses. However, the Bureau conceded accurate figures have become more important since they are now used to calculate the distribution of federal funds. 
Washington-Vice President Agnew reaffirmed his faith in President Nixon, but conceded for the first time that some speculation on the Watergate scandal might eventually be substantiated. "If it is," Agnew told a hastily arranged news conference, "It must be con­fronted forthrightly." Itwas the Vice President's first public comment on Watergate since the campaign, and he refused to answer questions after reading his terse statement, which did little to reveal what Agnew thinks about the scandal. 
Washington -Watergate disclosures have apparently cost H.R. Haledman much of the power he once wielded with such efficiency as the White House Chief of Staff. Amid reports that a staff shakeup was in prospect, the White House Press Secretary disclosed that Haldeman had stopped conducting his regular morning meetings with top aids some three weeks ago-about the time, other sources emphasized, when important disclosu res in the Watergate case began to break. 
St Louis-The swollen Mississippi River system continued to flood 
more farm and suburban areas as options for drawing off the ever­
rising waters into uninhabited floodways were diminshing. Flood­
-control officials warned that the system, fed by the wettest spring on 
record, would remain a major threat to areas from Rock Island, m., to 
below New Orleans for at least another six weeks. 
an campus taday 
8: 
30--musical, you're a good man, charlie brown, moreau little theatre, smc 

8: 
30--lecTUre, viet vets, dr. robert Iifton, library auditorium. 11:30-9: 00--an tosta I ·ac­tivities, north and south quads and stepan center 



at nd-smc 



HICCOUP questions effectiveness 
by John Rumbach Staff Reporter 
"H-man's Investigative Com­mitee" concerning "Cruel Or Unusual \ .Preregistration" is distributing questionaires to students during pre-registration to determine whether suggestions made by the committee for im­proved pre-registration procedures were successfully used. 
Mike Geisinger, chairman of HICCOUP, said yesterday that the questions will \ include inquiries into the availability of major courses to majors, the opportunity for students to get registration counseling and the justification of certain check-marked courses. 
HICCOUP had suggested to University departments that they provide ample counselors and ample time for counseling. They also suggested that the depart­ments mark courses that majors could register for before pre­registration. These courses were to be listed with an "M". 
Geisinger was disappointed that some of the departments did not implement HICCOUP's recom­mendations. "Either they did not want to use them or they were not 
aware of them soon enough." he 
said. 
Tonight at 10:00 on WSND's· Contact Notre Dame, a panel will discuss the problems o alcoholism. Joining WSND's Dave Barrett, Sheila Carney, and the Observer's Jerry Lutkus will be a reformed alcoholic, a South Bend doctor, and a university group therapist. 


Mike Geisinger 

The HICCOUP chairman also said that the final actions which came from the committee's suggestions were different than the original plans. 
Geisinger wasn't sure if the new procedures would work. "I hope that the questionaire will spot the defective areas," he said. 
Included in the original Hie­COUP plans was that all courses closed out during pre-registration were to be published in the Ob­server. Geisinger was· not sure if any action had been takenk>n this.­
" All of these things are being done experimentally. If it works we'll implement it further," he concluded. 
The Preprofessional Student Advisory Committee is currently accepting applications to fill positions on the committee for next year. Applicants need not be enrolled in the Preprofessional Department, but only interested in pursuing a career in a health­oriented field. 
Application forms may be picked up in the Preprofessional office and should be returned by May 4. 
GRADUATION IS NEARI 
Look your best with a Windjammer hair style. 
The way your hair looks makes a difference to you. The three expert stylists at the Windjammer know this. 
All Services By Appointment --Call Now 


Ohe WinJjammer 
HAll SffiiNO FOI DISCIIMINAnNO MIN & IOYS 
1637 ~incoln Wav w Closed Mondays Phone 232·6622 
Currently there are ten students on the committee, which aims at improving student representation in the Preprofessional department. During its first year, the com­mittee has worked at evaluating a faculty report, and has worked with Chairman Fr. Joseph Walter to institute several departmentalreforms. 
Through conferences with Dr. Emil Hoffman and the Freshman Year Office, the committee has incorporated programs designed to provide needed information to students interested in the Preprofessional program. The committee's goal is to help ease the "trauma" many students experience during their Freshman year. 
Students are needed to fill six places on the committee, or to help coordinate communications between individual students or groups next year. Those interested shold contact Frank Banfield at 288-G803 or Tim Hayes at 6294 for further information. 

The Observer Is publiShed dally during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for sa per semester (SUper year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 



Army-Navy Discount 
207 N. Main St. 

Downtown South Bend Store Hours: Mon & Thur: 9am to 8pm Tues, Wed, Fri, Sat. 
9am to 5:30pm One Man Rofi-!= 19.99 Two Man Rafts--Nylon 39.99 Rubberized canvas 34.97 

Air Pumps 3.99 
G. I. Insect Repellent 69' Assorted caps and 79' to 4.99 

·------11@-®JIU}:I_IIoil,~~~llllllllfG.~~~~·~:&ID.(~'~~'>&<;·•)l'·IMgg-~~~~II!W.. 
A TOAST TO AN TOSTAL a 


from Town & Country and Riverpark· 1 Liquorsa 
WHERE YOU CAN GET BEER CANS FOR THE CAN ;i STACKING CONTEST-HOW YOU EMPTY THEM§ I~ 1Jp TO YOU! ' 

rs;~ sEER sPEciALs 1 
SCHLITZ -MILLER'S I P~BST BLUE RISSO~ ~. FALSTAFF-HAMM'S I CARLING'S BLACK LABEL 1: MILWAUKEE'S BEST 
GOBBEt'S I 
8 16oz.


PEPSI pak 


*Ke'g Beer TOWN & cou.NTRY *Best Beer LIQUOR 
_Pdt~s tn Town 't g c..Shoppihg Center 2411 Mish. A've. *Wine Oellar The_. Notue Dame Partv Centet s 



Thursday April 26, 1973 the observer 




Frivolous Friday will offer AnTostal even ·s 
by Bob Quakenbush Staff Reporter 

"Nobody throws a frolic like the Irish," claims Gregory T. Monito, author and editor of the An Tostal booklet, as well as one of the coordinators of tomorrow's third of the Notre Dame spring festival, Frivolous Friday. "This year's version of the frivolous sixth day of the weekis indeed fantastic." 
Another coordinator of the second day of An Tostal '73, Mike Lyons, said yesterday, "Frivolous Friday is most memorable for me. Two years ago on Frivolous Friday I spent the entire day in An Tostal's final kissing marathon. It was worth it-1 set a world kissing record fo ten hours and twenty minutes." 
Lyons, a senior and R.A. from Holy Cross Hall, explained why the kissing marathon is no longer part of An Tostal, saying "Its decency was called into question." Nevertheless, Frivolous Friday and all of its excitement are still here. 
Monito reported Friday's events begin at 2 p.m. on the South Quad with quarter pitching and jello toss competitions, to be conducted simultaneously. 
"We'd really like to see a lot of people compete in the Im­personation Contest at 2:30p.m.," said Monito, a senior from Lyons Hall. His partner, Mike Lyons, added, "Last year's champion, Kevin O'Neill, is working on some new, secret impersonations, and we'd hate to see his title go un­contested. 
They reported that "An Tostal Hall of Farner," Jim E. Brogan, is returning to Notre Dame to emcee· both the Impersonation Contest and the evening's amateur hour. 
The scramble for first place in the egg toss competition and the old tire race are scheduled for 3:30 
p.m. on the South Quad. 
Frivolous Friday's number one athletic attraction, the Bookstore Basketball Tournament Finals, is expected to draw an overflow crowd to the bookstore courts at 4:00p.m. The game features the finest two teams from a field of-102, and will be broadcast live on WSND. 
"Any team that getsps far as the finals is well worth watching," says Tom Smit'h, who along with his roommates, John Morin, Finn McDavid, and Pat Dwyer, along with the Observer's Lefty Rusch­mann, is primarily responsible for the entire tournament. The Breen­Phillips junior continued, "A lot volunteers refereed, kept score, and worked out schedules for the tourney, and I'm sure the best 
School to create 'philosophers· 
by Bill Sabin Staff Reporter 

Children have always seemed to have hated going to school, in­clud\ng most of us who are now sup;>f•sedly seriously engaged in our own education. And it has probably always seemed that a lot more coud have been gained from that time had one wanted to learn, rather than having been forced to go. Magdalen School in South Bend is the kind of school you always wish you could have at­tended. 
Magdalen is a private, non­sectarian combination junior and senior high school, presently located in the First Christian Churcq, at the corner of Eddy and Jefferson. In its first year of existence, it has only twenty-one students; but it has a very high student-faculty ratio, about two to one, which it promises to keep. It was founded last summer by Bruce 
M. Fingerhut, the present head master, who is also a doctoral student in Political Theory at Notre Dame. His educational philosophy invoves a presentation of classical studies in a free and informal atmosphere. 
Perhaps the most distinctive feature about the school is that the students are self-motivated in their individual learning processes. Students are not required to attend classes and their parents are asked not to subject them to any pressure to do homework or "to get the grades." They are to learn because they want to learn, not because they have to. The ex­pected result of this freedom is that all academic success will spring from a real enthusiasm for acquiring knowledge (as opposed to enthusiasm for winning a contest); and, that this success will be all the more meaningful to 
Erratum 

Yesterday's Observer reported that Professor Paul Rathburn had stepped down as president of the Notre Dame chapter of the AAUP. Actually, Rathburn has finished up his term of office and Professor Dennis Dugan has been elected in the annual AAUP election. 
the student. "What we are in­terested in making is what Plato called 'philo-sophists' -lovers of knowledge," says Fingerhut .. 
In its purest state, it seems that such an educational theory would not include a grading system. Although Fingerhut basically agrees, he feels that, considering the realities of higher education, it is not practical to do away with grades completely: "The basic reason is that colleges demand some kind of systematic un­derstanding of what's happening." Anayway, students at Magdalen do not receive just grades, they also get individual reports from each of their respective teachers in all their subjects. Furhermore, grades are de-emphasized by both parents and teachers so that "making the grade" will not become a damper on the student's self-motivation. 
This all sounds well and good, but the obvious question is: does it work? Many feel that children are not capable of academic self­dicsipline and that in such an at­mosphere, where there are no demands, they would just play all day. But this is not the case at Magdalen ; most of the students do apply themselves and enjoy doing it. They have a high interest in their education, and they would probably all agree with Robin Hemley, a ninth-grade student, 
PUBLIC LIBRARY DISCARD BOOK SALE 
Main Library Garage 122 W. WayneSt. 
SATURDAY 
April 28 9:00am · 5:00pm 


who said: "After going to Magdalen, I would not want to go back to public school." 
(continued on p. 6) 

reward they could all have is a capacity crowd Friday afternoon at four." 
The evening's entertainment begins at 7:00 p.m. in Stepan Center. A brief "surprise event" precedes the "5th Original An Tostal Amateur Hour, slated for 7:15p.m. 
Appealing to all ND-SMC students, Monito asked, "If you have any talent whatsoever, won't you please perform?" 
The Student Union ano ·~e An Tostal Committee co-spo1 the free concert at 9:00 p.m fhe featured band is Elf. As \\ .1'-all other An Tostal events, all st~: 1 mts and faculty members of • ,.,tre Dame and St. Mary's are welcome to attend the concert. 
"All in all, after being dunked, jailed, and having pies thrown at you on Gentle Thursday, Frivolous Friday should be welcome rel~xation," concluded Lyons. 
ALUMNI CLUB THURSDAY'S SPECIAL: Tequila! 
Tequila andMix 50' 


ALSO...• 

"Sombrero's"-35' (coffee brandy & milk) 

SEER SPECIAL 7to 11 (at 7:00 & 11 pm -for one hour. BEER ZO') 7-8--1 0' BEERS, 12 oz. 11-12--10' BEERS 12 oz. 






WithTWA 
itpaystobeyoung. 
.A:rrned with just a pack on your back and a TWA Youth Passport* in your hand, you can see a lot more of the U.S. for a lot less with TWA Here are some ways we help. 

Overnite Pass.* 
TWA's terrific new money saver. It gets you guaranteed student dormitory accommoda­tions (at the least) without advance reservations in 40 cities in the U.S.A, Canada and Mexico. 


For only $5.25 per night! 


U.S.A. Bonus Coupon Books. 

Take your TWA Youth Passport and boarding pass to any TWA Ticket Office in New York, Boston, Philadelphia, Washington, Denver, Los Angeles or San Francisco. You'll get a rook ofbonus coupons good for 50% off things and absolutely free things like a free dinner at the Spaghetti Emporium in Boston, free tour of Denver by Gray Line, free pizza at 

~~ Anna Maria's Restaurant in Washington, free admission to a flea market in Philadelphia and lots, lots more. Like we 
===~.._.. said, with TWA it pays to be young. For all the details write: TWA-IT PAYS TO BE YOUNG, Box 25, Grand Central Station, New York, N.Y. 10017. 
for more information: call Dan Sheehan 3610 TWA Campus Representative 
*Youth Passport. and Ovemite Pass are aervire marks owned exclusively by TWA. 

Final News Staff Meeting 
TWO DATES TO CHOOSE FROM: TONIGHT 7:00 LAFORTUNE 2-D MONDAY NIGHT 7:00 LAFORTUNE 2-D 
IMPORTANT INFORMATION FOR ALL OBSERVER REPORTERS(PAST, PRESENT, AND FUTURE)
*Newswriting cowse{AMST 446) :reservations will be taken 
*Observer year-end party tickets will be distributed *Applications for vacancies in Editorial positions will be taken. *Preparations for next year 

Dardian Knat 



THE OBJ, 
AN INDEPENDENT STU[
Mega-Rat 
Jerry L~ 
Art Ferranti 
Editor-in-
Executive Editor
Ed Ellis 

NEWS: 283-1 
Lee Gentine EDITORIALS While standing in the South Dining Hall lunch line a few days ago, I a plate full of rasty, moldy, six-day old dining hall lasagna. A Business Manager BUSINESS: 
overheard the following remark: "Our student government is the biggest bunch of losers since the Philadelphia 76ers." 
Now I've got nothing against student government (after all, I'm part of it), but I really don't appreciate folks using my hometown team as a definitive standard of substandard performance. Thus I leaned over to the budding pundit and corrected him, "You mean, the 76ers are the biggest collection of losers since the Notre Dame student govern· ment." 
Perceiving a common interest, the gent engaged me in pleasant conversation for a minute or so, and we noted the following facts about the 76ers, the student government cabinet, and last fall's Student Life Council elections: 
-Hal Greer once played on a championship team in Philadelphia, 'lnd several other 76ers have played on winning teams. 
-Jim Hunt beat the Off-Campus Commissioner. 
-Anthony Abowd beat the Ombudsman. 
-Fred Giuffrida swamped the PR hack. 

-Floyd Kezele beat the Executive Coordinator, as did Jim Clarke, Glenn Sorge, and Blank Ballots at one time or another. 
-A former WSND official who no longer attends the University routed Dennis Etienne, who was made vice-pre!ijdent for his em­barrassment and who will likely be presid~nt after today. 
I told the kid in the line, J am a part of this student government, and I really can't say I mind working with these losers. After all, I have worked with Floyd Kezele, Paul Dziedzic, Jim Clarke and Bob Higgins, in the past, and although they're all great guys, they too have all lost elections. I've even worked with the biggest loser of them ali­
T. C. Treanor. 
But these losers are marching again and they have recruited a slate of candidates for the SLC districts. What's more, the ageless political loser Matt Kubik has sallied forth to make opposition with boy wonder Rick Gering. 

There must be some alternative. But let us consider the three groups on today's ballot. Quite simply, I c.ontend that they display the freshness, attractiveness, and appeal of 
Peripheral Division 


More Rats 
t.c. treanar 

Itis a foolhardy man indeed who attempts to match wits with a man as respected as Ed Ellis-particularly when the subject is losers. I, however, am due for the angels soon, so I risk less than most-1 have paid all my bills, and have no good reputation to lose. 
The hon. Ellis begins. to lay out his credentials-goodstyle!-by revealing his association with other losing campaigns of the past-Bob Higgins', for example, and (though he didn't mention it) Tom Thrasher:+'However, he is too modest. He did not include his one electoral performance in one campus electoral bid--for Badin Hall Secretary-he placed badly, finishing nineteen votes behind the win­ner, who eventually moved off campus-and only four votes ahead of a kid who had just finished losing an election to the "Freshman Council" by thirty votes. It is from this perspective that the hon. Ellis judges winning and losing. 
This is the judgement: we have an election which is "exagerated,, boring, and downright false." Listen closely, because Ed Ellis is oen of the most important political figures of our generation, and never mind that those charges have occasionally been made against him. 
Edward T. makes much of the fact that various members of student government lost SLC races to his friends. What he does not mention is that for extended periods of time those ballot boxes were in the ex­clusive posession of our Arbitrator of Political Taste, Dr. Ellis himself. Now, I draw no inferences, but Smiling Ed has never been adverse to admitting to some extraelectoral activity if the question is posed coyly enough. 
We move quickly from this discussion of politics past to Smiling Ed's conlcusion; that the current candidates are as appealing as 

daane•bury 
rr:S A sNIIfJSHOT OF V.S fOIIN~, r HAVI£ 
IH5 N/6/ff It/~ 601 CN6/IG~tJ. SDff£1HING J: WANr 
:;: KtiOW AJ£'R£ OPFICIAUY you -ro m~ WI/H 
011/0RC£0 NOW, BIIT rH6R~ 
yov... 
Ht6JfT COH& II PIIY AJ~/'1YW 'U ·WfiNI 10 R£/?EHJJa<
/ 
(}(/R HtHeiiS OF 111/PPIN~SS. 
/ 

moment's serious reflection will reveal all three platforms to be alternatively exaggerated, boring, and downright false, and the three tickets taken together remind me very much of what my good friend Denny O'Leary calls ''the Ballantine Beer three-ring sign," because "if you take one zero, and another zero, and then another zero, and add 'em all up, you still got zero." 
In any case, those in politics and the media must out of a sense of duty propose a better course, and so when my friends from around campus contacted me yesterday (as they do before every election) I told them: "Mega-Rat." 
"Meta-Rat" is a big, fat possum that lives behind Lyons Hall. Several weeks ago, one of my stoned colleagues wandered into a room full of people and announced to the ceiling , "You won't believe it but I just saw a Mega-Rat!" 
"It was this big, man," he continued, spreading his arms about two or three feet. The room, of course, emptied in the direction of the bushes behind Lyons, where all saw "Mega-Rat," who looked like a big ol' rat but who was in reality a big ol' possum. 
Since that first night, I have spoken with M. Rat on several oc­
casions. From these sessions with the critter, I have ascertained the 
following: first, he is male; second, he knows more about student 
government than all the other candidates combined; third, he doesn't 
read the Scholastic becasue he considers it beneath his dignity; and 
finally, Mega-Rat will serve as student body president only if he can 
have the Cat-in-the-Hat as his running-mate. 
Now some cynics might think I'm kidding about this whole thing. They might think that "Mega-Rat" is really a rogue, a charlatan, or Le Due Tholn disguise. However, I crossed trails with "Mega-Rat" a few nights ago at Saint Mary's, and after passing the time of day, he told me that he would not seek to change the student government constitution unless he were offered at least twelve cases of Cutty Sark. 
In short, "Mega-Rat" sounds like my kind of possum, and I urge all who are of like mind to bring M. Rat out of the bush behind Lyons and into the seat of power in LaFortune. Write-in: Mega-Rat and the Cat-· in-the-Hat. 
"rasty...lasagna" and something about Ballantines Beer, and that therefore one ought to vote for his candidate, "Mega-Rat." 
I must admit I am somewhat confused by this section of . the Writ. I'm not certain how the c~nclusion follows from the premises, and I think that the Author may here be distracted by his much-publicized search for the truth, which at last.report was resting on the bottom of a Stroh's Keg. It may be, of course, that he is travelling in metaphysical 
cirf!les too sophisticated for us rabble to handle-Machiavelli oc-Etienne has proven his excellence as a casionally had that trouble. manager and in a position of an in-Thanks to my spies in ~e Reigstrar'soffice, though,~ do know about cumbant SBP, Etienne's managerial 
Mega-Rat. Last week, m ~ecret ce~emony, Ed .had hts name legally qualities might be severely tested. 
changed/to Mega-Rat. He IS arranging for courses next semester to 
preserve his eligablity, and his amateur status. He tried to control student government by backin~ John ~arkett,a~d · gaini~g the reigns There exists a dichotomy in the at­to power as a r~u~t of Barket~ s gratitude. Thts pl~n ~1d not o,york. tainment of a position of incumbancy.
Then he took Htggms' lcampatgn over from the begmrung, hopmg to run things that way. This, however, was also a bit of a failure. This . . . . plan to run under the name of Mega-Rat, however, strikes me as a The mcumbancy brmgs with It blow beneath the belt, and I simply thought the students deserved a established lines of communication, 
Thursday, Ar 






H Mar 
Of the three men running for the position of Student Body President,Dennis Etienne is by far the best can­didil te. 
Etienne and his running mate Mike Geisinger have made no promises to the students other than pledging an extension of this year's student government and accomplishments in line with the same. 
A New Outlook 
This year's edition attempted a new outlook on student government. Their hope was to produce a structure within which students outside of the "poobah" games could get constructive things accomplished. Note then the work on a grotto bus shelter, a student lobby, a committee to aid pre-registration woes, etc., etc. They are all good ideas, con­structive ideas, and all are good moves in the area of student services. 
There lies the strength of the Etienne­Geisinger ticket In their incumbancy, they will be working with the advantage of the lines of communication and structures of government that they have already set up. P articulary in the last few months, Etienne has shown great improvement in the area of student &ervices. If the improvement continues, then Notre Dame students can expect excellence in the service areas of government 
Managerial Excellence 
· . . ~hroughou t the ten~re of his office, • 
warning. 
+ MJ:. Ellis also claims to have "worked with" your humble narrator. This, though, to the best of my recollection, is also an error--unless he worked under another of his aliases, Jeb Magruder. I did my losing on my own. 
qarrytrud-.u 
Gee, r'lt sOR.Rt 
fOI!. A CJ1 
CUN/Dftl; MY SUIIC/~56 
1HRE~ lfJ_, ooP/ s~~;·t:_
ts rfJU.. -ro r11e 6RIM. 
pH01071 11svs-r
1"11~R6 :JUST !SN'r 
r..RAPH . MRt:i-'1,
&/'IOU6/-f R00/1! 
(7 I CU>S~.
\ 
I 
established working structures, and good working r.ela tionships with people in 

MD 1­
This Sunday, at 4: 15 PM in the ACC Hockey arena, approximately thirty-five members of the Notre Dame community will attempt to stage what promises to be the most grotesque .exhibition of the sport of hockey yet witnessed in South Bend. Two apparently talentless teams, the Alumni Hall Staff and the combined staffs of Badin, Walsh and the female cheerleaders will attempt to remain upright on skates 1for approximately one hour in the first annual benefit game for Muscular Dystrophy. 
They need your support 
tRUER 
ENT NEWSPAPER ·kus 
Dan Barrett
:hief Executive Editor 
ns 
!83-7471 
1ril 26, 1973 



1--SBP 
power. But likewise it brings a tendency to stagnate. When an incumbant is re­elected, often he will allow things to operate as in the past and he fails to re­ignite the drive within his working structure. It appears that Etienne realizes this and will do all possible to remedy the dichotomy. 
In his last term, Etienne has been in a secondary position. Though he maintained the government office and completed mostof the managerialduties, Bob Ker­sten retained the leadership position associated with the SBP. In other words, Etienne was never really given the op­portunity to lead the students. In the future, the opportunity and the necessity will of course be presented, and looking upon his previous record, odds are that he can come through. 
The SLC 

In the six districts of the SLC, there are only two contested elections. In district 4, Matt Kubik is opposing Ed Rahill. Kubik is the recommended choice. He is probably best prepared to handle the problems, frustrations, and inter­personal relationships found in the SLC. Rahill in his enthusiasm, desire, and concern has shown that he is a satisfactory choice, but Kubik never­theless should be elected. 
In District 1, the off-campus district, only Bob Kincaid appeared before the Editorial Board and despite the fact that he did not have complete knowledge of the functions of an elected SLC member, there is nobasis for comparison with the other candidate, Christopher McManus. 
In the uncontested districts, Karen Moty is running in District 2, Mike Hess in District 3, Jude Bremer in District 5, and Bob Connolly in District 6. 
The Editorial Board 

Iockey 
Refereeing the match-up will be Ed­mund Price, Director of Notre Dame Food Service,; Fr. James Riehle, Dean of Students; and Arthur Pears, Chief of Notre Dame Security. Rumor has it that they will keep the ice "secure" while 
"policing" the rink. 

Real Coed Talk 
Editor: 
So now you're either at St. Mary's or Notre Dame. That means that you have your home here. What was once home is now a place to visit, a summer vacation spot. All decisions you make are yours and yours alone. Any changes made will come only through your ef­forts. The sooner you realize this, the further you'll go. 
Within your repertoire of "decisions to make" is that one concerning your relations with the opposite sex. 
The only way to make a fair decision is to wave overassump­tions and deal only with what is. Assumptions only lead to misconceptions. Misun­derstanding leads to hurt. 
Now... 
Should you, the guy at Notre Dame, assume that a girl you've dated the last two Saturdays is yours and waits anxiously for your call? Sorry. The guy next door likes to "get out", too. 
How about you, SMC? Do you assume that for every concert that comes along, that same "boyfriend"will ask you to it? Did you ever stop to think he may be on the same budget you are-he needs soap and toothpaste just as much as you do. 
Do either of you really think that the once a week, mascera, tie, planned date affair blossoms into a real friendship (in one way or another)? Well, look at the rate of divorces among the marriages between SMC and ND men. (I have no paper reference for that.) 
Girls, do you assume you are forward if you stop by a room at ND on your way home from the library? If so, you're a prejudiced person. You are discriminating between a male and female. Ifyou' like a person, should it matter what biological make-up he or she has, that determines going out of your way to say hello? That hello could very well make their day. 
And guys-can you righteously assume that because a girl has decided to drop by, that she's giving you a specialsign she cares for you-or is downright bold? Are your experiences broad enough to make that assumption? If you've answered both questions yes­you're downright naive. The greater percentage of guys at Notre Dame know little more about Saint Mary's than where the cafeteria is. 

There's another side to the story, too. She may ask, "Why doesn't he ever come to see me?" It could be he's just plain shy. It could be he was never invited. He may ask himself, "Why is she so cold?" It could be she went to a girl's school and never had experiences with men. (and vice-versa girls.) There is an element of un­derstanding needed between two people for them to communicate. Why not take the time to get to know a person before you start making assumptions? 
Why assume anything and risk misunderstanding? Ask questions, be honest. No one is here to pave a clear cut way for you like you had at home. You make the decisions. You make the assumptions. 
(name withheld upon request) 

Pseudo Boycott 
Editor: 

As a life-long resident of California's Salinal Valley and as one not inexoribly opposed to the UFW boycott of non-union lettuce, I was personally dismayed to read the results of Monday's vote regarding the singular purchase of Chavez-UFW lettuce by the University. Such a vote no doubt reflects the so-called "liberal" conscience of the student body at 
this so-called "humanistic" University. It is a convenient 
band-aid "liberalism" aimed not at overcoming the inherent hypocrisy and condescension of this University's administration or at matters of great national and human concern (such as a woman's right to soci o-economic equality)­-rather, it is a "liberalism" aimed at a struggle in the Salinas Valley of California, a far-removed struggle which few students either genuinely understand or are personally aware of. 
It is far too easy to opt out for this brand of psuedo-liberalism­

or COIJRSe yov 

N£eo ,t;/'1 IITTORN&YI 1'1/JRPel<. IS A ?Rerry 5£!<10/JS H/JRI?cR? 
U/,t:/R6£.' /IJH/11 AR£ 
I 11/~JAf:;~t 
A PIVORC£ Cl15c! 
'~~~ 
Issue Staff:

THE 
Night Editor: Christopher Sullivan 
Copy Editor: Mike Baum It will cost interested observers only 50 Typists: Barb Norcross, John Flannigan, Steve Roper, Dennis Anastasoff
~ents a~d coul~ very well prove to be an OBSf:RV.' rR Pictures: Jerome Phillips
mteresting climax to the An Tostal L. 
Day Editor: Tom Drape
weekend. Show up and help raise some 
Night Controller: Howard Halle 
money for Muscular Dystrophy. 
where the only price is the minimal one of paying a little more for a head of lettuce or perhaps going without a salad because UFW lettuce is not available. For that low, low price, this University can further its self­styled, self-contradictory, self­deceptive image of liberal humanism. And that is quite a bargain when one considers the price of all of the Johnson and Johnson Bandaids and blemish creams needed to hide the true complextion of this University and its student body. 
Addressing myself to a solid majority of the students at this University, here is a recipe for continued success: to one part of Notre Dame "liberalism" add "King Kersten" and Mobil Oil's "Mr. Dirt" as Senior Fellow; toss in a bucket ; stir well ; pour into beer mugs--the recipe serves approximately 8000 persons, looks tasty but leaves a hollow feeling in the pit of the stomach and an emptiness in the recesses of the soul. 
William Z. Elliott 
N.D. Law School, Class of 1973 


Thanks, Mark! 
Dear Editor : 
The  news  media  often  come  
under  critical  attack,  both  
nationally  and  locally  at  Notre  

Dame. However, I'd like to offer another slant on the job being done around here by the Observer. A few nights ago one of your reporters, Dave Kaminski, called to ask me some questions con­cerning the impending GSU election of officers. In reading his article in yesterday's Observer, (4­11-73), I was pleasantly surprised to find the information stated the way I had relayed it to Dave. Itis a small incident, but a very hear­tening one. 
At any rate, know that some people at Notre Dame do ap­preciate the quality effort of the Observer staff. 
Sincerely, Bro. Mark J. Ratkus, FSC 



fiarry trudeau 
Manging Editor: Joe Abell News Editor: Anthony Abowd Editorial Editor: Butch Ward Features Editor: Beth Hall SMC Editor: Maria Gallagher Sports Editor: Vic Dorr Wire Editor: Tom Drape 
Photo Editor: Jim Hunt Associate Editor: Rod Brave 
Editorials printed in The Observer reflect the opinion ollhe writer on behalf of the editorial board.
Butch Ward 

Columns reflect the opinion of th£ individual writer;
.___________________________________________________,
they are not to be taken as editorial comment. 
~, 


the observer 1nursaay, April 26, 1973 
Magdalen: new concept on classic foundatior. 

1:00  KITE FLYING SPECTACLE  2:00  J ELLO TOSS CONTEST  
2:30  TRIVIA BOWL(in Library Aud. if it rains)  2:00  QUARTER PITCHING  
4:00  JOCKS vs. FEMS--B-BALL  2:30  IMPERSONATION CONTEST (in library aud. if it rains)  
7:00  BAND STARTS PLAYING  3:30  OLD FIRE RACE  
7:00-9:30  CAN STACKING CONTEST  3:30  EGG THROW  
8:00  KUNKING BOOTH  4:00  BOOKSTORE B-BALL TOURNAMENT FINALS  
8:00  PIE THROWING  7:00  SURPRISE EVENT  
8:00  JAIL BIRD  7:15  THE FIFTH ORIGINAL AN TOSTAL AMATEUR HOUR  
8:30  BURLAP SACK RACE  9:00  FREE CONCERT (follows Amateur Hour--in stepan Center)  
9:00  FIND YOUR.MATE  
9:30 10:00  HUMAN PYRAMID BUILDING. FLOUR BLOWING CONTEST  Note; All faculty, adminsitration and off-campus students are cordiallyinvited to the free picnic, Saturdav 11:30-1 :OObeside Holy Cross Hall.  
Irish Wake tickets sold on North and South quads and at Stepaan ..,Center tlurlng actiVIties  

(continued from p. 3) 

It takes a while, though, for students to become self-motivated. 
Since most of the students at Magdalen came from the public school system, at first they were not ready to handle their new­found freedom--as Fingerhut bluntly states: "they went wild." But he feels they eventually started to adjust when they became able to distinguish bet­ween the concepts of freedom and license. He says that the students soon come to realize that "there are logical consequences to any action, and the logical con­sequence of license is slavery­slavery to passion. The logical consequence of not going to classes is to flunk. It's not to. be derided, cajoled or bribed; it's to flunk." 
Nonetheless it sometimes happends, particularly on a nice day, that no students will show up for a class. This would irk many teachers Cas we all knoiw), but those at Magdalen not only tolerate it, they expect it. An MacGill, a French teacher, feels that to harrass her students in any way for their attendance would be detrimental to what she believes Magdalen is accomplishing: "I have a great respect for the students' own potential and self­esteem, and I feel that this should be the driving factor in education­it should not come from me." 
This reliance on the child's self­motivation is similar in some respects to the main idea that A.S. Neil employed in his "radical approach to child-rearing" in his well-known Summerhill School in England, which is "to make the school fit the child--instead of making the child fit the school." 
However, there is a fundamental difference between Magdalen and Summerhill. In Neill's book, Summerhill, he says that the 

THURSDAY -APRIL 26 AFTERNOON: SOUTH QUAD 
. j


EVENING: NORTH QUAD 
4f'S' 

11:30-1:00 IRISH LUNCH IN DININGHALLS 
standard school subjects .''don't matter a jot" compared to the question of Man's inner happiness; therefore, Slinlnerhill's academic structure is relatively lax. Magdalen also does not strictly adhere to contemporary, standard subject matter, but it goes in the other direction: it embodies the classical approach to education: 
The subjects are classical in the sense that they are the same subjects that were taught for eight centuries in Europe to everybody. They are "non-trendy" subjects, says Fingerhut, because "what was true for man two thousand years ago is still true today," The approach divides the seven liberal arts into the Quadrivium and the Trivium: the former deals with the subjects astronomy, geometry, arithmetic and music. The Trivium was divided into gram­mar, dialectic and rhetoric. Grammar is basically the study of Latin, which leads into studies of other languages. Dialectic is the study of Logic (a subject found only in college today); and Rhetoric is the study of styles of writing. 
The intent of classical studies is, once again, to creat.e "lovers of knowledge" and to make the students aware that, as Fingerhut feels, "all learning is inter-related and on-going." He says, "Classical studies are aimed at teaching men how to think and how to live in the world." They are "non-utilitarian" in the sense that they are not specifically designed to lead one to a career, which he considers the natural effect of a standard curriculum. 
There were no "special stud­nets" in the classical approach; it was for everybody. Accordingly, there is no particular breed ~f student now at Magdalen as there is no admission test. 
It is apparent, then, that the Magdalen student faces a rigorous academic challenge. A seventh­
t: ader takes Latin, French, ~nglish, Math, Science, Logic and Music. Athletics are also stressed, but the program is informal and held after school a:\d on weekends. By the time a student graduates, he will have taken Latin, French, German and Greek ; he will be well versed in English, composition and literature; and, he will have ahad a solid introductory background in philosophy and theology. The purpose of this is to overcome the "wastefulness of secondary schools." for which Fingerhut finds colleges must compensate by offering remedial courses in philosophy, English and mathematics during the freshman and sophomore years. 
Some would say that this staggering amount of work is just too much and too complex for the pre-college student. And, though one student complained that "Logic is the most boring thing," MacGill says that the workload is nonetheless accepted as a challenge: "Most students are very proud to have this put on them." 
Yet with all this work, the classroom routine at Magdalen is anything but the usual pedantic "classroom routine." Sometimes, all classes are suddenly cancelled, and the whole school piles into the teachers' cars and heads off for a concert or a movie. 
It is a sad thing that an in­stitution such as Magdalen, that stands on such· idealistic goals, should be faced with extinction from such a materialistic concern as money. It is a sadder thing that parents are reluctant to send their children there. Fingerhut would like to get children from faculty members at Notre Dame, but he remarks that: "We get sympathy from them, but no students." himself to the fact that: "If we 
So, in Fingerhut's words the don't get enough students, we'll future of Magdalen is pack up and leave." Such an end to "problematic." Although he will Magdalen would be a loss to all of remain committed to his the educational community in educational ideals, he has resigned South Bend. 
Tucson slides planned 


by Mar) Janca Staff Reporter 
Slides of the Tucson area will be presented at 12:20 p.m. and 6:30 
p.m. in Stapleton Lounge for any interesed students in the Saint Mary's Tucson Program. 
Recently approved by the Board of Regents, the program will begin in September and will involve 20 different students each semester. 
According to Mr. John Hof, assistant to the president and coordinator of the Tucson Program, any student interested in participating in either semester should contact himself or Sr. M. Alma Peter, director of Overseas Programs, as soon as possible for complete fact sheet, curriculum materials, color broch ures, and an application. 
Any St. Mary's student whose course schedule can coincide with the· curriculum offered is eligible to apply for the program, he contined. 
No application deadline has yet bee n set, but, "interested students should try to have an application completed by the end of pre~ registration," said Hof. He further urged that those applying to the Tucson Program also register for classes here. 
The curriculum will involve a two-quarter system, with em­phasis on the various and unique southwestern areas of study. The first quarter will be comprised of Southwest Hisory, DEZ,sert Biolgy, 
John Hof, coordinator 

and Socio-Cultural Aspects of the Southwest. The second quarter will cover the areas of art, student teaching, and southwestern community studies. It will also allow for independent studies by the students. All courses will be applied to the students' credits for graduation. 
Although no professors have signed contracts yet, Hof stated that they will be selected from the Tucson area and approved by the participating departments of SMC. 
St. Mary's President Dr. Ed­ward Henry announced the ap­pointment of Sr. M. Gertrude Anne Otis as director of the program. 
Sister Otis served as the college's registrar from 1953-55 and as admissions director from 1955­
58. She was Dean of St. Mary's College Graduate School of Theology from 1959-63. 


7

Thursday, April 26, 1973 the observer 
Israeli ambassador here, discusses crisis 
by Terry Keeney Staff Reporter 
Ynsef Tekoah, Israeli Am­bassador to the United Nations, discussed the problems his country faces in the current Middle East crisis in a press conference yesterday. 
Ambassador Tekoah, appearing at Notre Dame for a lecture in observance of Israel's 25th an­niversary, cited the two principle challenges facing Israel: freedom for all Jews and cessation of the military conflict in the Middle East. 
Tekoah expressed particular concern for the 3 million Jews of Russia who have been denied emigration to Israel. He reaf­firmed the determination of his country to continue the struggle for human rights in Russia and elsewhere. 
He was less hopeful for a cessation of military hostilities bPtween Israel and the Arab 
nr~ns. 

"I am afraid that on the 25th anniversarv of our country's in­dependence we are still facing a long and arduous road," Tekoah observed. "It is a war that has gone through peai:~ disarmament, and cease-fire, but it._ a war that continues." 
When asked to comment op the recent censure of Israel by the'\Uil Security Council, Ambassadol­Tekoah was quick to label Israel's actions that prompted the censure as defense measures. He pointed out that the Security Council had not so condemned the Arab nations for such "barbaric attacks" as the massacre of the Israeli Olympic athletes in Munich and the murder of American diplomats in Khar­toum. 
"We pointed out that the UN resolution is one-sided because it deals with Israeli defense measures," Tekoah said. "What we have been compelled to do is react in self-defense." 
Tekoah minimized the ef­fectiveness of the UN in achieving a settlement of the Middle East conflict. Asserting a general in­ternational disillusionment with the UN, Tekoah emphasized that a Middle East peace can result only through negotiations between Israel and the Arabs, not through resolutions of the Security Council. 
"Our difficulties demand a 

'Striving for peace:' Tekoah 
byBiliSohn 
Staff Reporter 
Joseph Tekoah, Israel's am­bassador to the United Nations, spoke on Israel and her desire for peace last night in the auditorium of the Center for Continuing Education. His speech highlighted a campus-eommunity celebration of Israel's 25th anniversary. 
Tekoah stated, "We are con­tinuing to strive for peace." He added that it should be a peace which brings progress and development to all nations in the Middle East. 
He called to Israel's neighbors to "put an end to the violence," and he said that they both most put an end to the fighting and build a peace. He added they must both educate their people to work for peace. -....Speaking on Israel as a state, Tekoah said "it is the fulfillment of an •age,-old dream of the Jewish people." 
Hewent ~n to say, "the history of Israel is \the history of the preservation of that small stone in the mosaic of mankind--Judaism." 
The struggle of\ Israel was just like the struggle for fret>dom by the emerging nations of Asia. Africa and Latin America except Israel's struggle lasted aof 2,ood' .Jears 
Tekoah said. ' 
Of Israel today, Tekoah said it is one of the most advanced countri& in the world. 
of the ministry for foreign affairs

Marathon dcmcers ready 
0966-1968), Ambassador to the 

by Steve Magdzinski Staff Reporter 
Ten or more couples are ex­
pected to "Dance for Those Who 
Can't" during a dance Marathon in 
the LaFortune Ballroom beginning 
at 4 p.m. today and ending 4 p.m. 
Sunday. The Marathon is spon­
sored by Student Government to 
raise money for the Muscular 
Dystrophy Foundation. 
Most schools have raised about 
$10,000 in similar efforts, said 
Marathon chairman Collets 
Miller. "I'm not sure we'll make 
that much," said, "just because of 
a lack of participation. But I think 
we'll raise most of our money at 
the dance itself." 
As of Wednesday afternoon, $1,080 in pledges had been counted at the Student Government office. More pledges had come in, however, that had not been counted. 
Dancing is not restricted to those officially entered in the Marathon said Miller. Anyone who pays th~ $.25 admission fee may also dance. The $.25 fee may be pledged to a favorite couple. 
The Scum of the Earth, a campus rock group, will play at the Marathon Sat. night from 8 p.m. until 2 a.m. 
The Marathon schedule is as follows: 
FRIDAY­4'00 PM-8:00 PM Nlarathon Begins 
8:00 PM-8:30 PM '12 Hour Break 
8:30 PM-12:30 AM Dancing Continues SATURDAY­
12:30--1 :00 AM . 112 Hnur hrp"k 
CoJiegiate Notes 
Understand all subjects, plays (1nd novels faster! Thousands of topics available within 48 hout;s of mailing Complele with bibliography ahd footnotes Lowest Prices are 
GUARANTEED SEND $1.90 tor our latest descriptive Mail-Order Catale»que with Postage-Paid Order Forms 
too: 
He added that Israel has brought most of the jews living in arab lands to the freedom of Israel. The next problem is the jews in Russia 
Tekoah related an incident that occured while he was ambassador to Russia. Jewish lady with her son burst in to the embassy asking him to get them out of the country. When he told her he couldn't she asked him to get her son out. 
Tekoah called the redemption and saving of these "last jews in Europe" Israel's greatest challenge. 
Fr. Hesburgh introduced Tekoah 
by reading a psalm and saying"shalom." After the speech he read two more psalms. 
Ambassador Tekoah has been Permanent Representative to the United Nations since 1968. Earlier he was Assistant director-general 
Soviet Union (1962-1965), and Ambassador to Brazil (1960-1962).

1:Q0-3:00 AM Dancing Continues ,­3:0G-7:00 AM 
7:0G-11:00 ~=~~i~~r~:ntinues '1\{___ __ _
0_N11_E_-l-tf()--O-~~ 

11:Q0-11:30 AM '12 Hour Break 1 ~ 1\ 111 :3D--3:30 PM Dancing Continues I 
1

3:3D--4:00 PM 1/2 Hour Break I , ':1 4:0D--8:30 PM 
Dancing Continuesj ,·TFACif£D -rnAINI/11~ a',

8:30-9:00 PM '12 Hour Break ... I ~· ~ 
9:Q0-1 :00 AM Dancing Continues : "f41$ $~ Ill ~ ~A~IIq ~: SUNDAY­
111 1

1:0G-1:30 AM i '12 Hour Break ' I ~~ J!srltU-A!f.B ~ 1:3D--3:00 AM Dancing Continues! • 'Awr"lll' ~ FMrhr(i-.-.,.., ! 
1

3:0G-7:30 AM !<est Period FI6:J ,.. 1N 1!0 r I 7:3D--11:30 AM Dancing Continues! I ....., tJ~l"IDN 1 11:3D--12:00 AM 1:2 Hour Break : Jill~ INFAalfflrDIIID ~eM..At£ I 12:0G-4:00 AM Dancing Continues .1.. _____'!'~..!..~~ ~~~-:!=-l 
MAY GRADUATES I 
ASSOCIATES PERSONNEL SERVICES was recently for­med as a subsidiary company of ASSOCIATES COR­POR~TION .oF NORTH AMERICA to better service the ever-mcreasmg need of professional personnel seeking College Graduates to enter superb management training progra~s. Cur~ently we are representing several large compames seekmg professionals in the following fields. ACCOUNTING, DATA PROCESSING SALES AD' 
MINISTRATION, AND TECHNICAL AREAS·. ' ­
Now is the time to start giving serious thought regarding your future. We ask that you let our Professional Staff of Personnel ~nalysts assists and guide you in this very im­por~ant period. If you are currently seeking to make a desirable career move, please call or come in cofidence to: 
ASSOCIATES PERSONNEL SERVICE 
1030 E. Jefferson Blvd. 
South Bend Ind. 46604 
219-233-2132 

negotiation-seeking agreement. They cannot be dealt with ef­fectively by debate <in the UN), polemic, or acrimony," he said. "All international conflicts resolved in the last 10 years have been attained through efforts (negotitiation and direct contact) outside the United Nations." 
Tekoah praised American at­tempts to intervene in the Middle East conflict and urged further American aid. 
"Any assistance on the part of the United States to bring Israel and the Arab states into a serious dialogue is welcome. The question is how and when can Israel and the Arab countries get together and start the dialogue that has taken place in other parts of the world. If the U.S. can be helpful in en­couraging the Arab states to negotiate, that of course would be very useful." 
Ambassador Tekoah appeared at Notre Dame at the invitation of the University in conjunction with. the Jewish Community Council of St. Joseph County. 
THE NOTRE DAME.SAINT MARY'S THEATRE 
YOU'RE A GOOD MAN CHARLIE BROWN 
Clark-Gesner's musical entertainment based on the comic strip Peanuts by Charles M. Schultz 
April 26,27,28,29 at 8:30pm May 3,4,5,6 at 8:30pm April 28 and May 5 at 2:30pm Students-Faculty-staff $2.00 Reservations: 284-4176 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 
Three bedroom house and four bedroom house available for June Want lo buy non.electric portable or Septembel". Call Mr. Singer 234· typewriter Nick Meindl 233·1460 5830. 
Need ride to Loyola Univ. for 
FOR RENT >1 or 5 man house tor Dental Boards April 27. call 1312 summer. Great location. Call 232· 8530 or 283-8728 Riders needed to NYC or Conn. Leaving Thursday, May 3rd a.m. House for rent, spacious, 10 Call Dave 3679 rooms, 11h baths, 7 minutes from campus. Very reasonable. 1142 rideneeded from Kent State (Exit 
LWE, So Bend Call 288·4148 13 Ohio) to Notre Dame on May 3 or4. Call John 8810 
Cabins for rent on Lake Michigan. Gintaras Resort. Box 446 A, Lake Room for 2 in house for Summer 
Shore Road. Union Pier,
Near Campus 288.4297 
Michigan. Phone 616·469-3298 
Wanted: A forth student of r Sept. Want privacy? Rooms SAO mo. at 810 Sorin. Call 233-9110 233·1329 
Good typist would like to type studenl papers. Call 232·7227 
Room.mates wanted for NO Apts. Call Matt 3385 Rm. 431 Keenan 
Professional typist will type, ~it papers, theses, dissertations. Will also type foreign language papers. Reasonable rates. Prompt, accurate service. 272­2445 after 7:30 P.M. 
Riders wanted to Kent, Ohio­1Friday, April 27-·Ken 8810. 
I FOR SALE 
For Sale VM Stereo Player.record 
cassette deck w matching 
speakers. Extras included $95 
For Sale . Ping-Pong table. Very 
good condition, reasonable price. Please call 233·3893 
1 
Craig Rto R Tape deck plus 15 tapes $80.00 288-4297 
San sui 4000 pr Advent Spkrs. $375 8944 Eric 
~ '62 Ford Galexee 500 ggod running condition Call Ed 259·1273 
PERSONAL 
IWe'll take your stuff home to Hartford, 5 ;ringfield or Boston 1 for you at semester's end. Info: 
Call 1504 or 1931 
I 
I 
' Welcome back Skip, The Horns of 
, J.C 
LOST AND FOUND 
Green-colored paperback. SUMMER EMPLOYMENT DIRECTORY OF THE UNITED STATES ..1973 EDITION. Also, separate beige.colored SUP· PLEMENT to same. PubliShed by National Directory Service. Finders and·or users please return items to Placement sureau. Other students are asking for them 
FOR RENT 
Homes and apartments available for June or September. Call Mr. Humbarger. 234-9364 
Off campus -room for girls . close to N.D. Call Mrs. Cooper 272·3004 
12 Bedr. P t/C. Turn. house, 1414 N. Fremont, Avaii,.May 14, 1 yr. Air 
- 
-­ 
NOTICES  

Will do typing: Term Papers, Manuscripts etc. Call: 233-6909 
PITT CLUB ELECTIONS 
Elections for the offices of president, vice.president Secretary and treasurer will be held in Room C·l, La Fortune Amphitheater (first floor) Sunday April 29 at 8:00 pM. All those wishing to run for off ice should submit their name to Jim 8371, 
Rich 1209 or Jeanne 5194 before Sunday. Anyone from Pittsburgh and the surrounding area is elig'ble to run. Only membership card holders will be eligible to vote. 
23 year old inmate would greatly appreciate a· pen-pal. Please write: Bobby Glacken no. 134874 
P.O. Box 69 London, Ohio 43140 
Sale.great savings used and new titles,, Help Pandora's Books spring clean. 602 N. 51. Lluis at South Bend Ave. 
Morrissey Loan Fund closing April 27. Pay all outstanding Loans, all unpaid debts.will be turned over to student accounts with extra $5.00 charge 
Summer storage reasonable prices, 6 years experience with 
N.D. New bldg. High.dry Can ;ick up-deliver to hall. Reserve early. Mrs. Cooper 272·3004 
SAVE YOUR BREAD Placement Bureau ordered American Collegiate Summer Employment Guide on March 28. Booklet has not yet arrived, but when it does 
you can use it. Bureau currently has available other directories and listings of summer domestic and overseas jobs. Ask for them at Room 222, Admin. Bldg. 
BE HERE NOW by Baba Ram Dass is here now at Pandora's 233· 2342 
Attention SMC students: the AK­FLCAC strongly urges you to vote for ANN KLOOS for the Lumen Christi Award this year. Over the past five years she has shown true Christian co.operation as a member of the SMC community. (as well as being a member of the Lakeland Community College, Miami of Ohio, and 5an Diego State Communities. 

cond, BSMT Fck. Back YO, $150j Mo and elec. Dog ok, 234·4835 After 5 l 
a 
j 


the observer Thursday, April 26, 1973 


Consistency eludes ND gridders 
by Vic Dorr Sports Editor 

During his nine-plus years as Notre Dame's head football coach, Ara Parseghian has become· thoroughly familiar with the athletic ups and downs of the University's academic schedule. And yesterday, in the first stadium scrimmage of the current spring season, Parseghian watched as his­team struggled to shake off the effects of one of those "downs." 
The Irish gridders, !playing in a filmed scrimmage for the first time since their six-day Easter layoff, were plagued by fumbles, 
interceptions;, and sloppy ball­handling, and the butter-fingered offensive performance left Par­seghian less than pleased with the afternoon's workout. 
"It was evident that we've been gone for six days," admitted Ara. "I think the defensive hitting was much improved, and the defense was moving quicker and reacting better, but our handling of the football made it evident that we haven't had much work recently. 
"It wasn't totally unexpected, but we will have to be more con­scious of the importance of the ball, and we'll! have to learn to protect the ball at crucial times." 
But there was an encouraging side to the scrimmage. During the four periods of the first team­second team contact, the number one's ran up a 41-15 spread over their opponents, and the day's
i scoring was widely distributed. 
~ Four touchdowns were tallied by
I 
the first offense, two by the second 
I, 
offesne, and two by the number­
I. one defense. Quarterbacks Tom Clements \ and Cliff Brown alternated halvesi at the controls of the first offense, 
and Clements, taking advantage of turnovers and better field positior., led the first-liners to four TD's while Brown directed them to two. But while at the controls of the numlki--two offense, the two QB contenders played to a standoff, each earning a single score against the 'first defense. 
"It' (the quarterback shuffle) gave us an opportunity to work them both, commented Par­seghian, "and it was a better test for us defensively, as well." 
Clements put the first defen~e to a stiff test during his second possession of the afternoon. After defensive back Mike Parker recovered Russ Kornman's fumble on the Blue's 22-yard line, Clements took the second offense to a score in three plays. A first­down flare pass to halfback Chuck Kelly carried to the 10, and, two plays later, Clements swept ten yards around left end for the score. 
But Brown, operating the first offense, got that score back just before the end of the opening period. Tim Rudnick's 14-yard punt return set the Blue's up on their own 47, and the number-one's ran it in from there, the touchdown coming on fullback I Wayne Bullock's three yard jaunt. Bobby Thomas, who handled the placekicking;and kickoff chores for both teams, ,tied it at seven with 
2:01 left in the stanza. The first-liners went ahead for good just nine seconds into the second period, when deep back Bob Zanot plucked AI Samuels' fumble out of the air and scooted 
untouched for a 46 yard touch­down. 
The .14-7 count held until the second half, when Clements and Brown shifted positions. Clements immediately took advantage of his first-string role, and led the 

To~ Clements <left) and Eric Penick each scored a pair of touchdowns in yesterday's grid 
scrimmage. 

number one's 74 yards to atouch­down during his first possession of the final half. The drive stalled once--at fourth and goal from the nine--but a defensive holding penalty gave the offensive team a first down on the one, and Penick squirmed across on the next play. 
Penick's tally was the only score of the third period, but a second defensive touchdown triggered an avalanche of fourth period points. Tackle Kevin Nosbusch blocked Tony Brantley's punt inside the Blue 15-yard line and end George Hayduk scooped up the loose ball and carried it the final three yards int~ the end zone. 
That score made in 27-7, but Brown earned another score for the second offense moments later. 
Irisb split doubleheader -with W· Michigan 
by Stan Urankar 

Notre Dame and Western Michigan battled at Cartier Field forbetterthan five hours yesterday afternoon, but all that baseball action produced exactly what neither team wanted-a doubleheader split. 
Senior Rick Eich watched his Irish mates strand 17 runners on the bases land commit three cos­tly errors that resulted in his fifth loss of the year, a 4-2 twelve inning marathon defeat. 
MikeRiddellgot better support in the nightcap though, and pitched five-hit ball while snuffing out a last frame Bronco charge for ND's ninth win, 3-2. 
Coach Jake Kline didn't know what to do after a passed ball and Pat Coleman's bases-loaded error sent home the wi ning runs in the opener. "It seems like we just can't get any hits with men in scoring position," the veteran Irish baseball tutor noted. "We left the bases loaded four times ... you don't win ball games like that." 
The/real crusher is that twice the Irish had the sacks jammed with nobody out but couldn't squak home a run. The lninth inning proved most demoralizing as Pete Schmidt singled, Mark Schmitz dc.ubled, and Bob Roemer was intentionally walked before Bronco boss Bill Chambers replaced started Tim May with Dave Rice. 
A new pithcer in a none-out, ­bases-full, game-winning run situation-he's bound to crack, right? Rice said, "Sorrry" and got TomHansen on a foul fly to left, designated hitter Pete Clemens via an infield fly out, and Howard Wood through a soft liner to short. 
The Irish also had the sacks full with nobody out in the second via singles by Wood and Jim Smith sandwiched around Coleman's walk. May got tough, though, to get Dick Nussbaum on a strikeout and Schmidt and Schmitz on infield outs. 
Western eventually took ad­vantage of the Irish gifts, wrap­ping it up with the winnin~-and unearend-runs in thE' ~wleftl'. Two singles and a passed ball forced Eich to intentionally psss Greg 
McMannon wins at OSU 
by Tom McKenney 
Twenty-five teams, including Notre Dame, met last weekend in Columbus for the Ohio State Relays. Although the Irish did not fare well, team captain Tom McMannon successfully defended his high hurdles title while teammate Willie George scored the only other Irish points with a second place effort in the discus throw. 
McMannon's winning time of :13.8 was-good enough to edge out his old nemisis Roger Downing of Eastern Michigan University. 
"Downing has always been one of the more interesting com­petitors," the Irish captain said. "I've never lost to him in the three years I've run against him, but just the same it's always a good race. Downing always seems to bring out the..best in me. I always have good times when rcompete against him." 

McMannon's time at the OSU relays was only one-tenth of a second off his lifetime best. 
McMannon will be the only Irish representative at the Drake relays this weekend. Most of the Notre Dame team will be staying in Indiana for the Ball State Relays. At Drake, McMannon will be running against Rod Milburn who earlier this year in Detroit defeated McMannon in his attempt to retain his NCAA indoor hurdle title. 
Also included in the field will be representatives from Kansas, Kansas State and Bowling Green. A crowd of over 15,000 is expected to turn out and they'll get a chance to see the likes of Olympians Milburn, Frank Shorter and Dave Wottle. 
Geyer, and second baseman Terry kle followed with an easy double play grounder that Coleman deflected into short center for the winning runs. 
Schmitz' boot on a rundown play gave the Broncs their first marker in the third. May and Mark Orr were at the corner with two out when the latter broke for second base. Smith took Roemer's throw and started after the WMUr in­fielder just as May broke for home. As Orr neared first base on his retreat, Schmitz dropped Smith's relay to allow the run. 
Nussbaum's two-out single scored Wood to tie it in the fourth frame, but_ Orr countered with a two-down fifth inning double that put the Broncs back up. 
ND entered the seventh in a do­or-die situation, and Schmidt opened with a walk. Schmitz moved him ahead via a sacrifice bunt, and an out later, Hansen ripped a line shot single to left that put the game in overtime. 
Eich finished with four strikeouts and only six wll}ks for the twelve innings of duty, though he probably would have been happier with a plain ol' seven stanza win. 
Riddell was in top form in his outing, runnning off strings of eight and ten straight retired batters. Still, the senior righthander needed some big plays in the field. 
Coleman, Schmidt, and Schmitz combined on afourth framerally­killing double play that left a runner at third. and Hansen made a racing grab of catcher Dave Babcock's liner to end the gam.e 
Consecutive safeties by Schmitz, 
Roemer, and Hansen put the Irish 
on the board in the first, then 
Smith, Ken Schuster, and Schmidt 
likewise combined for another un 
in the second. 

Geyer bobbled Hansen's 
grounder to open the ND sixth 
frame and set up the eventual 
wining score. The "T-Bird" moved 
to second on a passed ball, gained 
third on ann infield out, then 
scored when Smith ripped a two­
out single through the box. 
Western rallied for two runs with The first "D" didn't succumb easily, but Brown, facing fourth and goal from the two, hit Greg Hill with a short scoring toss and then hit tight end Robin Weber for the two-pointer. 
The final two scores of the scrimmage both belonged to Clements and the first offense, and both resulted from turnovers. Hill's fumble his own 38 gave the first-liners one opportunity, and Clements and Penick capitalized on it when they clicked on an option pitch-play that went 16 yards for a TD. 
Tom Lopienski's 37-yard run with an interception of a Cliff 
two away in the seventh on Jim Carwardine's single, a walk, and Zirkle's double to the fence in left center before Hansen made his big catch. 
Notre Dame leaves for Oxford, 
0. this afternoon and a thre-game weekend series with Miami of Ohio. Kevin Fanning and Mike Swallow are expected to get the nod in Friday's doubleheader, and either Mitch Stoltz or Mark Pitt­man will conclude the series Saturday. The Irish them return to Cartier Sunday for a big doubleheader with independent Droit, and coach Kline expects both Eich and Riddell to be ready for that twinbill, soated for a 1 p.m. curtain call. 
That is, barring any more five hour doubleheaders. 

Brown pas's set up the final score. The soph defensive back carried his theft from the 45 to the eight, and Clements scored from the one two plays later. 
The scrimmage began the last week and a half ofspringpractice, and it also saw a limited return to action by defensive tackle Steve Niehaus, who had been sidelined with a knee injury since Missouri week of last season. 
"Niehaus played during the first half," said Parseghian, "and he did okay for the first time out. But the six -day layoff was evident in all of them, and we're just lucky that the weather was what it was today. 
It was perfect football weather, and if it had been much warmer they might have been wilting out there. I fully expected what took place today," he concluded, "particularly from the standpoint of execution." 
Bookstore slate set 

The schedule for Thursday's games (all held at the Bookstore) 
12:45 Wounded Knees vs. BADIN EXILES (Bracket 1final); Marksmen vs. Rock Jocks <Bracket 2 final) 
1:30 T-Plague vs. Cardiac Five <Bracket 3 final); 31 CLUB vs. RA.s et. al <Bracket 4 final) 
Note: favored teams in each game noted in CAPS. 
6:15 Bracket 1 winner vs. Bracket 2 winner; Bracket 3 winner vs. Bracket 4 winner. 




