
-----------------~--------------------, 
On The Inside 
Students OK the o.C. rulinq 
......page 3 
Irish Sports •••••pages 11 and 12 

Vol. VII No. 92 


New election set for Sunday 


52 percent abstain 
by Jim Gresser, Marlene Zlozq, and Tom Drape 1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Senior Reporters Abstention ballots accounted for 52 percent of yesterday's student body elections prohibiting both the Sorge-Manigault and the Clarke-Singleton tickets from obtaining the needed 50 percent plus one majority. A third student election will be held Sunday between 12:00--2:00 p.m. and 5:00-7:00 p.m. in the halls and for off-campus students from 1--7 p.m. in the library concourse. Clarke-Singleton declared their candidacy in the Sunday election last night in a statement to The Ob­srn'C'r. Bob Kersten. current SBP, declared that "barring unforeseen difficulties" he will seek re­election with Dennis Etienne as his running mate. The Glen Sorge--JuanManigault ticket have declined to run in the Sunday election. "I am simply not in­terested." said Sorge. When asked for his endorsement of the other can­didates. Sorge slated "I don't see what difference it would make. We don't have elections, we have football rallies.'' 
Clarke: Nothing like it 
. Jim Clarke commented on last night's election by 
saying. "I've never seen anything like it in my life." 
In their statement concerning their candidacy for the 
next election. Clarke-Singleton said. "We hope the 
:-;trengths and the coherence of our programs will 
manifest themselves in the results Sunday night. We 
firmly believe we have a program that can represent 
the 'illiterate rabble' better than anything the 
'Oligarchy' or anyone else can legitimately present." 
L!.'velling accusations at The Observer and the 
prl'Sl'nt student government administration, Glenn 
SorgP termPd student elections as "a waste of time, a 
waste of money, and a waste of thought." 
Sorge: Observer wronged him 
Sorge accuseo The Observer of making "pre­
ca leu Ia ted misrepresentations of his campaign." 
"Thr Obsrrv€'r slaughtered us all over the place and 
falsely." said Sorge. 
"ThP Sorge ticket was treated in the same impartial 
mamwr with respect to deadlines. copy placement and 
Pditorial dl'cisions as every other ticket." Observer 
l'ditor .John Abowd replied, when contacted for com­
ment. 
With rl'ference to the current student government's 
int!.'n'!.'ntion into yesterday's election, Sorge said that 
"Tlwv ruined the election." He called their action "an 
a lmsr of power." 
Wlwn ask!.'d if he planned to challenge the election 
Jli'OCPdur!.'s Sorge added. "There is no one to put the 
ehaiiPnge to." Sorge called the Election Committee "a 
gmup of publicity seekers." 
Kersten: Candidates urged him 
Pn•s!•nt Student Body President. Bob Kersten. eounll•red Sorgt• by saying that "Sorgt>'s entire cam­paign \\'as based upon deceit. His poor showing was due to his dr>ePil finally coming to ligjlt." 
1\<•rstPn 1\'<'nl on to add that Sorge's statements. 
Alu. Bad. B·P Cav. Oil. Far. 
Fis. Fla. Gra. 
H.C. 
How. 
Keen. 
Lyo. 
More. Morr. 
Off-C. 
Old Col. 
Pan. 
St. E. 
St. J. 
Sor. 
Stan. 
Wal. 
Zah. 
TOTALS 
Blank Ballots 
98 
59 
78 
47 182 
109 
70 
212 
133 
79 103 
103 
78 12 
128 
125 15 41 62 
30 
87 
88 69 
115 
7,123 
Clarke--­Singleton 
72 
34 
23 82 
25 
69 
60 65 
138 30 13 
142 34 
3 53 18 
120 52 
16 47 40 25 
1.170 
Sorge--­ 
Manigault  TOTALS  
37  207  
11  104  
61  162  
16  145  
25  232  
19  197  
22  152  
96  373  
105  376  
11  120  
16  132  
18  )63  
20  132  
2  17  
41  222  
9  152  
6  22  
27  188  
5  119  
34  
17  120  
• 59  194  
1~  121  
43  183  
674  '\,967  

'.1 hieh slated that incorporation would help those IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII...IIIIIIIIIIIII..IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIRI 
-tud<'nt~ !wing forcPd off campus. appealed to students ill'l'allsl' "forcing p!.'opl!.' off campus is the biggest issue 
111 l'ampus right now." 
"leniPred the campaign at the prolonger! urgings of .he l'andidates who wrote my endorsement." said t.;(•rst{'n regarding his position. 
K!'rstpn explained that he asked for the blank ballots ll!'eaust• "I fl'lt that neither of the two candidates would reprPs!•nt what the majority of the students wanted." 
Eyaluating the Clark-Singleton plan Kersten said, "Looking at this past year's HPC chairman and the rPaetion the campus gave to him. anyone who thinks the II PC can rPpresent the student body is crazy." 
Kersten proposed a plan which would have the SBP directl~· PIPcted by the "illiterate rabble" and using the IIPC as the legislative arm of student government. 
Election procedure announced 
Tlw procedure for the Sunday election was an­
nounePd last night by Paul Dziedzic, Election Com­
mitll'P Chairman. Any stud!.'nt who wishes to run in the 
(']eel ion must pick up a petition at the student govern­
111('!11 office. Th!.' petitions will be available at noon 
loday. 
!'andidatl's must have 100 signatures on the petition 
to lw placed on the ballot and the completed petitions hd'or!.' :i:OO p.m. Saturday. The list of candidates will lw posted in the Huddle. Library basement and the indiYidual halls. 


No campaign expenditures 
The EIPction Committee has asked candidates to ineur "no campaign expenditures" before the election. They call l'or "word-of-mouth" campaigns only. 
Although write-ins and abstentions will be allowed. <Ill~' eandidatl' who receives a simply plurality of the 1·otcs cast wins. Under this procedure, the election will lw d!.'cidcd on one ballot. Tlw Sorge-Manigault ticket received 16.9 percent of tlw \'Oil's east and carried no halls. 
Clarke and Singleton won in Cavanaugh, Grace. 
1\l'l'nan and Pangborn. tallying 29.4 percent of the total 
\'Otes. 
A majority of blank_ballots was cast in all remaining 
halls and from off-campus. The total percentage of 
111ust lw turnt>d in to the Student Government office abstPntions was !l3.7 percent. 
Friday, March 2, 1973 

ND toumey bound: Irish accept NIT bid 
by Vic Dorr 

Coach Digger Phelps and the Notre Dame basketball program yesterday climaxed two years of sometimes-painful rebuilding and reorganization by accepting a bid to appear in New York's National Invitational Tournament. 
The NIT selection committee first contacted the Irish athletic office at 11:30 Thursday morning-­following Wednesday night's 76-65 victory over Western Michigan-­and the invitation was officially accepted three hours later. 
The bid was Notre Dame's first post-season invitation since the 1970-71 season, and it was the first time in five years that the Irish had been contacted by the New York­based tourney . 
Last season, which was Phelps' first at Notre Dame the ND cagers finished with a 6-20 mark and were never in consideration for post-season activity. And when this year's squad lost six of its first seven games, the tournament situation appeared equally grim. 
But Phelps' youth-oriented team worked a stunning turnabout during the months of January and February, and Wednesday ,s victory upped the ND ledger to a respectable 14-11. It also assured the Irish of their post-season bid. 
'Tm very, very happy," beamed Phelps after yesterday'a an­nouncement. "When voulook back to December, and see.that we were 1-6. and then look at us now, you can see that we've come a long way. After Louisville (the site of ND's !i5-63 loss to Kentucky) I told the team we still had a shot. But we knew we had to regroup and reorganize with enthusiasm and spirit. and we knew we had to believe in ourselves and believe we could do it. 
"I think the turning point came wlwn John Shumate tipped in that shot to send us into overtime against Kansas, and we went on to win the game. We've had some great wins since then--beating Dt>Paul there and beating Pitt­sburgh in overtime. and of our five losses since December, one has h!.'!.'ll to UCLA--and then we lost to Duquesne at Pittsburgh and Duke at Durham (where both teams owned long home-court winning streaks.) We lost to Illinois in Chicago Stadium, and Fordham beat us in New York by one point. 

"I think we've played great basketball during the past two months," he continued. "I think these kids have received a reward which they've justly earned." 
The first round of the tour­nament will be played in New York's Madison Square Garden on St. Patrick's Day (Saturday, March 17th), and such an arrangement made ND's exciting, scrappy team a logical tournament choice. But many observers ex­pected a bid only if the Irish were victorious in their Saturday showdown with South Carolina's Gamecocks. 
"I feel," explained Phelps. "that they were loOking for local support in the New York area. They needed a team with local flavor, and we've already played there twice this season (losing to For­dham. 70-69, and topping St. John's, 75-71). We played good games and we drew well both times--and I'm sure they were looking for a name team that had been playing good basketball." 
16 teams are invited to the NIT Pach year, but only several bids had been extended as of yesterday afternoon. American University and Virginia Tech had accepted invitations, but there was no word on the other prospective clubs. 
Frequently, though, the second and-or third place teams in both the Big Ten and Atlantic Coast Conferences, as well as several New York teams, are included on the tourney slate. 
But regardless of the scheduling, Phelps feels that his team can givt> a competitive account of itself. 
"We've proved ourselves through our schedule this year," lw said. "We've played some of the b!.'st teams in the country, and no one. really. has been in a position to blow us out. If we stay lh·althy. and stay out of foul trouble. then I think we'll stay l'Ompetitive. Now. I'm not saying that we're going to be the NIT l'hampions ... but we had a goal, and 11·e got tlwre--now we've got to go afl!.'r it." 

the observer ·. iday, March 2, 1973 



'warld briefs 
(c) 1973 New York TimPs 

Paris--The Vietnam •ference in Paris completed its work Thur.sday as 12 foreign r•....sters initialed an agreement providi:!H!, that m the event of a break-down in the cease-fire the conference c' 1 be reconvened by the United States and North Vietnam or any six of the other signatories. After the ceremony, American officials in Saigon re<'eived a list of American prisoners of war to be released Saturday. 
Wa~hington--Palestinian guerrillas have reportedly seized the Amertcan ambassador to the Sudan in an attempt to force the release of sever~l hun~red prisoners including Sirhan Sirhan, Robert F. Krnnedy s convicted murderer. In a raid on a reception at the Saudi Embassy in Khartoum, members of the Black September terrorist movement reportedly captured Ambassador Cleo. A. Noel Jr., his charge d'affairs and three diplomats from other nations. 
Zurich--Less than three weeks after the dollar was devalued for the ~econd time in 14 ~onths, a fre~h monetary crisis has forced foreign <xcha~ge ~arkets m at least etght Europe~n nations to shyt as the ('ountr1es tned to hold the present value of tbeir currencies. 
Washington_--A~erican birth and fertility rates dropped to their lo~est levels m h1story last year, according to new federal statistics wh1ch reported that the fertility rate oj WMPE children per family dropped significantly below the "replclcement level" of 2.3 children. The decline was s? great that despite' a greatly expanded population the number of babtes born last year was the smallest in 27 years. 
New York--Criminal court Judge Joel J. Tyler ruled that the film Deep Throat was obscene, and began a process that could lead to a fine of more than $1 million for its distributor. In anticipation of the ruling ~he movie had already been cancelled at two New York theaters where 11 had been drawing capacity audiences. 
an c:ampu• taday 
~:00 p.m. ·-lecture. daniel pinkham, little theatre, smc 7:00p.m ..bask~tball. indiana h.s. reoionals. ace 7:30p.m. mov1e, a man called horse, lyons chapel 
7:30 p.m ...liturgy, st. john chrysostom (melkife.byzantine), holy 
cross hall chapel 8:00p.m ..concert. daniel pinkham, o'laughlin auditorium, smc 9 12 p.m .campus kubiak's, Iafortune 
10: p.m. coffeehouse, lower caf~teria, smc 
>;ill 3 
10 a.m. & I p.m ..play, alice in wonderland, little theatre, smc 7 5:30p.m. discussion, rev. peggy way & sr. tuite, libraary lounge 3:30p.m. basketball. n.d. vs. so. carolina, ace 8:00p.m. play, a poor man's broadway, little theatre, smc 8:15p.m. ·basketball, indiana h.s. regionals, ace 
7:30 
& 10 p.m ..movie, french connection. o'laughlin auditorium 

B. 
10,. & !2 p.m. .movie, macunaima (brazil nuts), engineering aud1tonum 


Sun J 
1:30 r: m. & 4p.m ..play. alice in won.derland. little theatre, smc 
2:00 p.m. concert, fort wayne philharmonic. o'laughlin auditorium 7 5:30p.m. ·discussion. rev. peqqy way & sr. tuite, library lounge 6, 8 P.m. -presentation, reading dynamics, room 202 center for 
continuing education ' 7:30p.m. lecture, rev. peggy way & sr. tuite, library auditorium 8:00p.m. ·Concert, englebert humperdinck, ace 8, 10 p.m ...movie, ride the high country, engineering auditorium 



Campus Roundup 
Art festival starts today 
Saint Mary's College Fine Arts Departments are hosting a Festival of Fine Arts, March 2,3,4, 1973. The general public is invited to attend the many scheduled art, music and drama events. 
This first annual event will begi n officially Friday, March 2, 1973, when junior and senior high school students who are interested in a fine arts major arrive on campus. These students are coming from various areas of Indiana, southern Michigan, and parts of Illinois and Ohio. Each will be assigned a "Big Sister." a current Saint Mary's College student, who will escort 1 a visiting student. Classes will be open for observation. 
Daniel Piniham featured 

At 4:00p.m., visiting composer, Daniel Pinkham, will lecture on "l<:lectronic Music Composition." This lecture is open to the public and free of charge, and will be held in Moreau Hall Little Theatre. Pinkham has been commissioned by the College to create an original work in honor of Mr. Edwyn Hames. retiring conductor of the South Bend Symphony. 
Pnikham. regarded as a "ver­satile conductor," is a native of Lynn. Massachusetts. He has studied with Wanda Landowska, KPower Biggs, Aaron Copland and Nadia Boulanger. While at Harvand as a visiting lecturer, he co-founded. with Robert Brink, the Cambridge Festival Orchestra. Ht> is a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. 
At 8:00p.m. on Friday, March 2, 1973. Composer Pinkham will conduct his original instrumental work for soprano and chorus 1with t>lectronic orchestration in {)'Laughlin Auditorium. The public is invited, free of charge. An informal reception will be held in the O'Laughlin Auditorium Foyer following the concert~ 
Saturday's Events 

Saturday's events begin at 10:00 
a.m. with the Saint Mary's College­Notre Dame Children's Theatre performing "Alice in Won­derland." Held in the Saint I Marv's I College Moreau Hall Little Theatre, the play is open to tht> public. There will be a nominal charge of $1.00 per adult and 50 ct>nts per child. A repeat\ per­formance will be staged that af­ternoon at I :00 p.m. 
The visiting high school students \\'ill be afforded the opportunity at I :no p.m .. Saturday to interview and audition with the music, art and theatre departments. They will be taken on a campus tour and meet informally with department faculty and students. 
At 4:00p.m. on Saturday, Susan Maher, a Saint Mary's College .Speech and Drama major, will present her senior project, a mime show, in the College's Regina Hall Theatre. 
At 8:00p.m. on Saturday, Carol Riordan, also a senior Speech and Drama major, will presnt "A Poor Man's Broadway," a musical comedy review, in the Saint Mary's College Moreau Hall Little 'Theatre. Both are open to the public and free of charge. 
On Sunday. March 4, 1973, the Saint Mary's College-Notre Dame Concert Choir will sing a Haydn Mass at Sacred Heart Church, University of Notre Dame, at 9:30 
a.m. Susan Stevens, Instructor of Voice. Saint Mary's College, will be the featured soprano soloist. Arthur Lawrence, Assistant Professor of Music, Saint Mary's College, will be the organist. 
At I :30 p.m. and 4:00 p.m. Sunday, March 4, 1973, "Alice in Wonderland" will be repeated for the public's enjoyment in the Saint Mary's College Moreau Hall Little .Theatre. 
chamber symphony 
At 2:00p.m. on Sunday, March 4, 1973, the Fort Wayne Chamber Symphony will perform with Thomas Briccetti conducting, in ()'Laughlin Auditorium. The Chamber Symphony is being co­sponsored by the Saint Mary's College Music Department and the Notre Dame Cultural Arts Com­mission with the support of the Indiana State Arts Commission. The charge is $1.00 per attendsant. 
Briccetti. a pianist, composer and conductor, is in his third season as musical director of the Fort Wayne Philharmonic. Before joining the Philharmonic, he was composer-in-residence for the D<'nver Symphony, and was. founder of the St. Petersburg Symphony in Florida. 
This past summer.,he was guest conductor for the Grant Park Symphony, Chicago, and recently returned from Luxembourg1where he was guest conductor of the National Orchestra. 
Judith Dickinson, soprano, will be the guest soloist appearing with 
Tne Observer ·is published daily during lhe college semester except vacations by the students of the · University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions n1a y be purchased for $8 per semester ($14 per year) from The Observer. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class poslage paid, Notre Dame. Ind. 
~6556, 
the chamber Sympnony. A native 
of Indiana, Miss Dickinson studied 
with noted American soprano, 
Adele Addison. She was a leading 
soprano with the Eastman Opera 
Theatre, Rochester, New York, 
and was selected for the first 
regular summer season of the St. 
Paul Opera Association. 
Throughout the entire Festival of 
Fine Arts weekend, Saint Mary's 
College student and faculty art 
will be on display in the Moreau 
and Hammes art galleries. In 
addition. "The Artist­
Photographer in Indiana" will be 
on t>xhibil in the galleries. . 
II ours for aII sections of the 
Moreau and Hammes galleries are 
as follows: Tuesday through 
Friday and Sunday from 1:00 p.m. 
to 9:00p.m. : and Saturday from 
I :00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. The galleries are closed Mondays. 
Hart in April 
St>n. Phillip A. Hart of Michigan, author or co-sponsor of several eivil rights bills since 1958, will present three major talks at the second annual Civil Rights Lec­tures April 5 and 6 at the University of Notre Dame. Sponsored by the Law School to honor Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., former chairman and member of the Civil Rights Commission, the talks are open to· the public without charge. 
Floor manager, lieutenant or chief strategist of the 1964 Civil Bights Bill and the 1965 Voting Bights Act. Hart successfully dir<'cted the 1968 fair housing bill which few Congressional leaders gave even the slimmest chance for passage. 
His Notre Dame talks are ex­pected to concentrate on the Congressional perspective with ba~kground reports on con­l<'mporary civil rights bills and an outlook for future legislative ac­tions. Former·Chief Justice of the llnited States Earl Warren opened 
the series last year with historical 
accounts of civil rights actiOns 
from colonial days to the present. 
MAIN CHURCH SUNDAY MASSES 
5:15 pm Sat. Fr. Gene Montoya, C.S.C. 

9:30 am Sun. Fr. Nathan Mitchell (special 18th centu;y Latin Mass featuring St. Mary s Concert Choir) 
10:45 am Sun. Fr. Donald Martin, S.J. 
12:15 pm Sun. Fr. William Toohey, C.S.C. 
, Evensong" vespers at 4: 30 pm 
Sunday. Confessions .are heard 
before each weekday mass and from 
7:00 to 7:30 pm Monday through Saturday. 
SMC Class of '73 presents 


THE FRENCH CONNECTION 
PLACE: O'Laughlin Aud.· SMC Saturday March 3 TIME: 7:30 & 10:00 
ADMISSION: $1.00 

Not Doing Anythi_ng Tonight?· 
Stop By The Bulla Shed 
(Corner of Bulla arid Juniper) 

...or
Bring 
Join in
Your 
on one.
Favorite 
Game ... 
Monopoly, scrabble, etc. 
Good Company •. Refreshments 


Music 


A MAN CALLED HORSE 
Tonight 7-9-11 pm 
Lyons Hall Chapel Saturday 8-1 0 Admission $1.00 



Students give nod to OC ruling 
by Tom Mirabito Staff Reporter 

Student reaction to the ideas brought forth by both acting V.P. for Student Affairs, Mr. Phillip Faccenda and Director of Housing, Father James Riehle concerning the forcing of upperclassmen off­campus has been generally favorable. Hall presidents Fred Baranowski and Bob Clark and three students from Flanner, Howard Stierwalt, Pat Lally and Mike Murphy, agreed that the administration's answers were adequate. . 
Fred Baranowski who is chairman of the HPC and president of Holy Cross said that each hall should come up with their own alternatives to forcing students off-campus. He Piaborated by suggesting thal halls propose that seniors-to-be migll( live in voluntary forced triples and quadruples. He also felt ~hat the halls should loQk· ·· into the possibility of using public space for rooms next year. 
..1 am pleased with Mr. Fac­cenda 's tentative approval of using public rooms for student's private rooms next year." Baranowski said. "We wanted to get straight answers and we did. Tlwre is still confusion as to why there is a force in the first place hut at least now students have a few alternatives." 
Stanford Hall President Bob Clark echoed Baranowski's sentiments. He felt that the ad­ministration was not taking into consideration that more students want to stay on campus because mort> girls will be on campus next ~·ear ...As of right now we are not planning to hold a lottery in Stanford because we feel we can meet our quota by making next Years seniors live in forced triples ~tnd by u:;i.J:!g the public rooms in our dorm··ror living space next vear." · Clark stressed'·tbe point that Stanford Hall was the best n•presented hall on campu~t the lllt'Pting lwld by Faccenda at StPpan Center on Tuesday night. ..Over 50 percent of the students present at that meeting were from Stanford." Overall he 
felt that the answers that Riehle and ~'accenda gave were adequate. 
The three students from Flanner expressed similar opinions after their meeting with Father Riehle. After presenting Riehle with the petition that they had circulated last night they asked him about the rationale behind his decision to force some students off-campus next year. 
Stierwalt said. "Father Riehle heavily encourages people to move off-campus early so nobody will be forced off." The sophomore from Flanner said that Fiehle feels that if the students would make an parly decision then the problem of finding rooms on campus for those that desire such room wouldi"·not exist. 
Stierwalt said tbat Father Hiehle is basing nis action on statistics from previous years that have been very consistent. Since 1969 the number of students that have moved off-campus has been about 1400. approximately 22 percent of the student body. Stierwalt suggested that his trend might change but Riehle assumes 

NASSAU 
Buses from Circle to Metro Airport Defroit will leave 3/9 {time to .be announced). 
Ticket sales begin MONDAY at S.U. Ticket Office, 3rd Floor LaFortune. Make reservations now to insure a seat! 
the number will remain about the itself we're in trouble." cerning the amount of off-campus same. Stierwalt said that Riehle housing available. 
Mike Murphy added that if the stressed the point that there is no Added Murphy, "Riehle feels trend stays the same then only 100 shortage of off-campus housing that left alone the situation will students will be forced off-campus. and that his office has lists clear up." H~. stressed however, 
Therefore, Murphy said, "If the available. Stierwalt added that that "They are not prepared for trend continued Father Riehle is Father Riehle feels that a lot of the opposite, except to kick people right but if this trend reverses people are misinformed con-off." 
More registration than before 



Students use placement 
by William Murphy Staff Reporter 
A tremendous increase of the number of women using the Saint Mary's Placement Office facilities has been noted by Placement Director Janice Whe_aton. 
At least half of this year's graduating class have registered with the Placement Office, ac­cording to Wheaton. more fresh­nwn and sophomores are using the career counseling services than t•ver before . 
In an interview on Tuesday. the ~t. Mary's Placement Director 

\\'l!caton: Almost half of 1973 doss hal'e registered. 
Photography, art shows open today 
In conjunction with the Saint 
Mary's College Fine Arts Festival, two major art shows will open the \\'Pekend of March 2-4, 1973. 
The College's Art Department is sponsoring a faculty-student art show March 2-31, 1973, in the Hammes Gallery, the foyer of the Little Theatre, and the central section of the new Moreau Gallery, below ()'Laughlin Auditorium, at Saint Mary's College, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
The show will include works rf'presenting all facets of the Saint Mary's College Art Department. 
"The Artist-Photographer in Indiana" is a "photography as art" show being exhibited March 4­:!li, !973. in the north section of the 
nPw  Moreau  Gallery,  below  
O'Lr.ughlin  Auditorium,  Saint  
Mary's College,  

Hours for both galleries are as follows: Tuesday through Friday and Sunday, 1:00 p.m. to 9:00p.m. Saturday. I :00 to 5:00p.m. Closed Mondays. 
explamed what she felt her office's job was in relation to this increase in interest. 
"Placement is a misnomer", explained Wheaton, "We can't place the girls. Its up to them to sell themselves." 
What the Placement Office does is to try to fit the students with job possibilities by both personality and intellect. 
The placement services will make job contacts for the students, said Wheaton. ·•we teach the girls about interviews and how to write applications and resumes·" but the responsibility of selling them­selves is still left upon the girls. 
Career planning, stated Wheaton. is an on-going process. The sooner a student seeks vocational guidance in his or her academic career the easier it will be to fit the student to a job description. 
The Placement Office maintains 
a career library which contains job 
descriptions, company in­
formation, government in­
formation and graduate school 
catalogues. The earlier this in­
formation is made use of, in 
conjunction with a counselor, the 
better off the eventual job ap­
plicant will be. 
J 
To determine the office's results,' 
Wheaton ran a follow-up on lqs! 
year's graduates. Two-thirds· of 
those who replied U> the 
questionaire are employed in 
management ancL,'Professional 
positions. The_!r jobs range from 
medical and space technicians and 
researchers to · university coun­
selors and)5usiness management 
personal. 
Wheaton has plans to improve 
the c;.dunseling service in the 

Our Mid-Winter Savings Event is still going on. Save! 
Exclusive 
Buy the Campus Shop Way.. pay one third in June, one third in July, ohe third in August with no service or carrying charge. 


future. She hopes to set up a directory of successful alumnae and prominent figures and use them to help counsel future students. She also hopes to set up a library of audio-visual tapes of various job descriptions for student use. 
Finally, Wheaton stated that the 
Placement Office is willing to help 
any student who wishes vocational 
guidance, even Notre Dame students who feel her office may be of some assistance. 

NEW ARRIVALS! 

HAGGAR BIG CUFF DOUBLEKNITS 
$16
from 
Choose from a selection of the bold new plaids as well as solids, these are the ones you ask for... a little wider flare, a little more style, a lot more value. 
OTHER HAGGAR KNITS•••from $14 
A fine selecttion of flare slacks in new colors and pattterns. The wrinkle-free ones. 




. ~.. . ~-. .;.·~· .. .lfh ...<'ft ..._.. 
r 
r 
r
,. 
, 
r 
~ ~ 
r 
the observer Friday, March 2, 1973
4 
Mar 2 If you can't beat 'em •.drive 'em crazy! JANE FONDA •'DONALD SUTHERLAND • PETER BOYLE ~n"STEELYARD BLUES" A BILL/ PHILLIPS Production . . ~.­·. . . .. '• ·.. ·...:_:: ...·· · 8 pm. Walsh Hall · I • .. Friday, March 2 50' Cinema '73 patrons free Producer Tony Bill (ND Grad) will introduce the film and answer questions afterwards.  MACUNAIMA 95 minutes of Brazil Nuts... "Wildlyfunny...the spirit of the Marx Brothers lives .aga1n. " The London Observer Sat. March 3 8-10-12 pm Eng. Aud. $1  
"Ride the High Country' Sam Peckinpah at his best. (Ais directed "Straw Dogs" and "The Wild Bunch") *Starring Randolph Scott Joel McCrea  
SUNDAY MARCH 2 pm Olaughlin Aud.  

I 
$1 .00 at the door 
SUNDAY MARCH 4 ONLY 

CAC presents: 
$1 Cinema '73 patrons free Engineering Aud. 8-10 pm 


Fort 

ayne 
I 





armon1c 


, 
.,,_,.._ ... ,.-..... -................ .o:oo.,.~.~ ........ ,. ...... ,. .................. -........... '".-~-~ ..-\ ........... ____. -· ·-·-.-.. ···---....... . 
the observer 
Walter defends Pre-Prof Program 
h:-• Ja mi.'s Rosini 
Staff Reporter 

~· .Joseph Walter. Chairman of the ~\Department of Pre ­l'rofe;s~nal Studies. reacted 
1wgativelt-yesterday  to  recent  
n•commC'nfultions  by  the  Com­ 
Ill it tl'l'  to  Review  the  Pre­ 

Professional Program saying, "TilC' prC'-professional department herl' at Notre Dame has been strong for 50 years. and it is con­Iinuing to place our students in the lwst MC'dical Schools.·~ 
Walter has been Chairman of the lh•partment since November,l970. In the past three "crises years," as Walter called them. Notre Dame has continued to place ap­proximately 75 per cent of its pre­professional students into medical schools whereas the national m·l'rage is only 32 per cent' 
Notre Dame is the only existing llniversity to have a pre­professional department as such. Other schools such as the University 
of Michigan. Yale and Michigan 

State have a Health 'Sciences Walter 
DPpartment,  which  is  one  
recommendation  by  the  Com­ 
mittee  to  Review  the  Pre­ 

professional program here at Notre Dame. 
WaIter explained. "Although studpnts at these universities are not in a pre-professional depart­nwnt. they are all headed by a el.'rtain dean." Walter then pointed out that all the previous chairmen of his departments were deans. "Changing the name of the degree and major might just be different on paper." said Walters. 
HPplying to an accusation that the pre-professional department only catered to students wishing to be doctors or dentists, Walter said that there is no interest in the related health fields here at Notre Dame. 
"In the past 50 years over 95 per ePnt of the students have been interested in a medical career," estimated Walters. "Very in­frequently has there been an intent in other health services." "We have never been and are not equipped for the ancillary field programs," said Walter. "Why change the name 'pre­professional' if that is. what we are geared toward anyway." 
Walter said that those schools which are geared toward the an­cillary fields offer courses such as Organic Chemistry..Biology and Math on many different levels. 
"Here at Notre Dame, because of the predominance of students interested in medicine, there are two levels of courses, tough ones and tougher ones," said Walter. 
Walter fears that with the abolition of the pre-professional program the acceptance pe)""' centage to medical schools may decline. 
"It is not only the MCATR's and GPA's that medical schwbls look at . but sometimes more important are the recommendations," Walter Pxplained. 
There are many instances when a nwdical school dean will contact Walter and ask his opinion of a certain student. Walter said that it 

is the close communication bet­
ween the department and the 
student that the present system 
allows that has helped him answer 
the medical school's questions. 
Walter explained, "The problem of communication between the College of Science and Arts and LPtters Pre-Professional Programs is one of mechanics." 
"When an Arts and Letters pre­professional major comes to the Science pre-professional office, the student seems to feel that he _doesn't belong here because we don't know enough about him " said Walter. "This is where the anxiety lies between the two programs." 
Walter said that the situation can be alleviated by keeping a duplicate folder of the student in the pre-professional department office so that Walter can keep up with the status of the student. 
In reply to the accusation that Notre Dame pre-professional 
(continued on page 9) 

SMC 'no SBP' plan goes to students 
by Mary Janca 
Staff Reporter 

A referendum for the revision of St. Mary's student government, which calls for the elimination of the positions of student body president and vice-president, will be nffered to the student body for approval following its passage by tlw Student Affairs Council sometime after Spring Break, stated Student Body President Sue Welte. 
This Student Government restructuring would replace the positions of Studen~ Body President and Vice-President with three executive commissioners, a Chairman. Hall Life Com­missioner. and Student Affairs Commissioner. Barb McKiernana ctnd Debbie Carvatta. originiators of this propsal believe that this will rl'lievc one person, SBP of ab­solute responsibility for all action taken by Student Government. 
"This proposal has received the oyerwhelming support of the Student Assembly," said Welte. It is now being sent to the Student Affairs Council. charied by Dr. llenry and composed of representatives of the ad­ministration, faculty and students, for further consideration. 
"We are taking this through Communitv Government for ad­Yice and ·consent. and to the students for approval," continued \Vt'ltcr. 
This ml'ets requirements set by the Student Procedural Manual. \\'hich states that. "an amendment 
Copernicus talk 
set for tonight 
Nicholaus Copernicus, the founder of modern astronomy. will \w the subject of a symposium tonight at H pm in the library auditorium sponsored by the lkpartments of Government and International Studies and the (;('neral Program of Liberal Sutdies at the University of Notre Dam('. 
Two papers scheduled for presentation include "Copernician Impact on the Orient" by Dr. Boleslaw B. Szczesniak. professor of history. and "Copernician He\·olution in Literature of the West" hy Dr. Donald Sniegowski. associate professor of English. 
Chairmen of the symposium are llr. Walter .J. Nicgorski and.. Dr. l\liehael .1. Crowe of the General regarding a major policy change of Student Government must be brought to a vote by the student body and passed by a majority YOte." 
l'rogram.  and  Dr.  John  
Krmnkowski of  the Government  
l'rogram.  

·If this proposal is passed by the Student Affairs Council, it will be enacted on an experimental basis, and elections will be held to fill the new offices. 

Welte> 
Bring your hungry herd 

• to our place. We've got a wide range of steaks at prices to please you all. 
PONDEROSA 

STEAK HOUSE 
52627 U.S. 31 N. 
and 
Town & Country 
Shopping Ctr. 

~pen 11 A. M. to 9 P.M. Dail~ 

~ Fri. and Sat. to 10 P.M. ~ 

Take a free Speed Reading Lesson on Evelyn Wood 
In just one exciting Speed Reading ~ you too can increase your reading and study speed (with no loss in comprehen­sion) 50 to 100%-FREE. At the Free Speed Reading · Lesson· you will team how the Evelyn Wood course handles difficult 
.text book material. How It improves memory and concentration. And, how It makes reading a pleasure instead of a chore. Attend a Free Speed ~eadlng Les­son. It could change your life tool 
Over 500,000 graduates including 
Dean Amstead, University of Texaa Rear Admiral Ashworth Birch Bayh, U.S. Congreas McGeorge• Bundy, JFK Cabinet Clark Clifford, LBJ C~blnet Superintendent Estes, St. Louts Dean Gates, Beaver College John Glenn, Astronaut 
S. I. Hayakawa, San Francisco State Charlton Heaton Mrs. Jacob Javltta Herman Jones, U.S. District Judge Edward Kennedy, U.S. Congre11 Burt Lancuter George McGovem, U.S. Congress Mar~hall Mcluhan Dr. Frank Moya, Miami University William Proxmlre, U.S. Congrasa Dr. Margaret Ratz, Principia College George Segal 
Judge Juanita Kldd Stout Ben Wllllnghan, Genesco President 
Success Warranty! 
98"'o success! Anyone wl>o falls to Improve at lea~t 3 times receives a full tuition refund! 
Lifetime Membership 

If you _want further improvement in your speed of readrng, study, comprehension, and recall skill you can, as a Reading Dynamics graduate, repeat 
the cour.se at any time. 

r----Free Speed Reading Lessons -.,....._~ 
This Sunday, March 4 
6 & 8 pm 
at Center for Continuing Education 
Seminar Room 202 





THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
John Abcwd Editor-In-Chief 
Don Ruane Executive Editor 

Dan Thornton  
NEWS: 283-1715  Business Manager  
EDITORIALS: 283-8661  
BUSINESS: 283-7471  Joe Butler  
Advertising Manager  

Friday, March 2, 1973 
Cooperation 
Some hall presidents finally admitted last night that the Administration is acting in good faith over the housing issue and congratulations are in order. They admitted that Faccenda and Riehle gave them straight answers---the kind of an­swers that the administrators have bee'l giving all long. 
It seems ludicrous to contend that the University actually wants to force people off-campus. (Viewed objectively, that kind of logic is even economically un­feasible.) And finally the hall presidents appear ready to admit that. 
A Hall Matter 

As it stands now, the housing situation is becoming a hall matter. It is up to each hall to decide what is best for them;· 'either to overcrowd the hall with the residents' approval or to submit to a lottery and encourage people to move off. Either action will help solve the housing problem as it exists now. 
However, if the halls move for over­crowding, the burden should not fall on the seniors-to-be alone. The burden should be distributed evenly through the hall residents. Also, hopefully, if the halls do overcrowd, the University will arrange an adjusted board rate for the overcrowded students. 
If the number of students that go off-
Letters ... 
Pre-Meds 

Ed1tor: 
Hc: Profs Discuss New Medical Program 
l wish to thank the professors in tlw Dcpartments of Sociology and Psychology for their keen ob­scrvaIinns into our preprofessional programs and the necessity for changc. It would be most lwndicial to adopt a "changing
r 
! 
~ 
pattcrn" and "develop a new bree<.' of students." We can then becomt morr attune with the national trend. Hather than keep our ac­eeptance rate of 77 percent <131 acccpted out of 170 who applied in 1!172 1. wc can become closer to the national statistics of 32 percent~ acccptance. I realize that it is bad r for social development to be dif­r fcrcnt. 
r It would be important to "focus on community medicine" and
r 
socially orient our students rather
~ 
than give them a strong
r 
background in the sciences so that
~ 
we will no longer produce students 
r 
who go on to be medit:al scientists, 
r
, 
r 

~ 
campus approximates the totals that have been achieved in the past years, then around 100 students will have to be forced off-campus. And that number will be cut into depending on how many hans decide to overcrowd. The figures indicate that despite the talk around campus, the administration really isn't giving the students a raw deal. 
The Flanner Petition 
After meeting with Faccenda and Riehle, the organizers of the Flanner petition seem ready to drop their charges and accusations. They too agreed that they were given straight answers. This indicates that cooperation, not op­position, is the key now. 
This in no way is to imply that the idea of overcrowding or moving off-campus is agreeable, but it is the lesser of the available evils and through cooperation the problem can be minimized. 
The options are pretty clear. If you intend to move off campus, make your declarations as early as possible and cooperate in any way possible---it will minimize the problem and make the 
working  towards a  livable  solution  so  
much easier.  
Jerry Lutkus  

... on abortion et al 
professors of medicine, Deans of Mcdic'll Schools, or eminent physicians as they have in the past. 
We have indeed had students who majored in psychology who ap;:>lied to medical school. In the past three years there have been three such students who applied. None have been accepted! 
Sincerely, 
Hr.·. Joseph L. Walter, CSC C'hJirman. Department Preprofession."l Studies 

Hunt column 

Editor: 
Geoffrey_rHunt's polemic in behalf of abortion swayed me profoundly. It convinced me -­heretofore a staunch right-to-life advocate--that abortion just might he okav. At least in the case of G. 
Hunt. · 
Sincerely, 
Charles W. McCollester 

Correction 
J<:ditor: 
Allow me to correct a statement 
made by Don Ruane in his column 
of 28 February. Mr. Ruane claims 
that "Kubic (sicl had his slogan 
plastered all over campus on flyers 
announcing a 'Huddle Ball' 
sponsored by the New Age of 
Decadence. These flyers appeared 
before the election started." 
Posters advertising a "Huddle Rail" did appear all over campus. Student Government, however, has the only, and I repeat only, eopy on which the slogan "New Agr of Decadence" appeared. in strict accordance with election rules. every other one of those posters had the campaign slogan deleted. I speak from experience; I spent the better part of an af­ternoon obliterating the offending lines from all the flyers to be postcd. 
Thank you for your cooperation in this matter. 
Thomas Clinton 
r:~arry 
l:iardian Knat 
Mephistopheles Returns 

Ed Elli• 
I have never really been known& .. an overly superstitious person. I have. when the occasion demanded it, discarded four-leaf clovers, smashed mirrors, and even walked undaunted under a ladder. But se~eral nights ago, a black cat followed me to my room, sat on my sola. and commenced to stare at me in a singularly piercing fashion. Worst of all. some sense, undefinable but certainly originating somewhere inside me, warned me that this was not an ordinary black eat. 
Indeed, I have seen black cats before. They have occasionally emssed my path, resulting ordinarily in no further harm to either party. But with all apologies to un-Candidate, this cat was most ex­
traordinary. It was totally black, of course, but near each eye, the sparsity of hair gave the impression of whiteness, which in turn gave the further impression of a mask---a sort of photo-negative of the Lone Hanger. 
The eat's eyes were green, which should surprise no one, but its midnight brows were so angled to the center of its forehead that all :1ttention <indeed, all perception within the eat's gaze) seemed directed toward the bridge of its nose, where the darkness of the feline visage seemed to glare at the universe with uncompromisingly malignant intent. 
Now. as I have said, this was no ordinary cat, and thus can be given no ordinary name. I choose to call it Mephistopheles, the celebrated Satan of Faustian legend. The evil in the name corresponds rather well. I think, to the paramount evil implied in the person of the cat. 
Certain things must now be said of this most singular animal. First, it seemed to gain great pleasure from staring at me for long periods of time. I must admit. however, that I stared it down three times in succession. though not without some progressive_ loss of moral sense. J<:ach lime it seemed to me that I won by thinking thoughts more malicious than during the previous trial. Eventually we (Meph and I> reached accord and I doused its thirst with milk (the cat had thrice refused beer and wine). I in turn was permitted to scratch its back, to which a profound humming noise was its response. 
Meph slept on my sofa that night. I wasn't too enthused at the presence of this fiendish guest, but then Meph didn't seem too inclined to leave either. 
Somr of my friends certainly weren't enthused and, lacking the insight bestowed by a 3 am meeting with the Devil, one of my friends grabbed the cat from the sofa and threw him out the window. Mephistopheles landed on his feet (as all good cats do) and, reap­]l<'ared within the hour on my sofa. 
Several other toommates suggested tying a firecracker to the eat's 
tail. perhaps throwing it in the fireplace, kicking its ribcage in, or dropping it from the fourteenth floor of the library to see if it landed on its feet <a scientific gesture, to be sure>. As we shall see, none of these plans were ever enacted. Perhaps the hand of the Lord stayed them; pf'rhaps the hand of Satan. 
Not everyone hated Mephistopheles. One friend of mine welcomed him immediately, but I ought to note here that this fellow talks to eockroaches and collects lizard skins. Also, a girl stopped by and seemed to get along fairly well with the animal. On the whole, though, no one mourned when the cat left shortly thereafter. As we searched and realized it was gone, the aforementioned threats were reiterated by my courageous big-game hunting roommates. I merely mumbled something about there being more than one way to skin a cat. 
Mephistopheles returned again very late the following night. Same black coal, same dark fearful visage. It seemed as if Blake's "Tyger" had somt>how been compacted into a less haughty, but far more sinister. version of feline experience. Again the threats. Again the cat rt>mainrd on the sofa, exuding parts of the netherworld with every breath. 
Finally. the eat's owner came to claim it. He seemed a fairly normal student from a farily normal hall at a fairly normal school. And although he took Mephistopheles away, meph returns to me oc­easionally in my dreams---nightmares, that is. I have often wondered whether that guy could sense that he possessed such an extraordinary beast. I doubt it. Nonetheless. Mephistopheles has returned. 
illllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll' 
CO-EX MEAL TICKETS 
3-2 Alumni, Zahm, Pangborn 
3-3 Grace, Fisher 

3-4 Morrissey, Cavanaugh, Holy Cross 
3-5 Flanner, Walsh, Old College 
3-6 Dillon, Farley, Badin 
3-7 Keenan, Lyons, Breen-Phillips 
3-8 Alumni, Zahm, Pangborn 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIRIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
trudeau 

r----------------------------~ 
r 
~ 
r 
r 
r 

the observer 
Managing Editor: Joe Abell 
News Editor: Anthony Abowd 
Editorial Editor: Jerry Lutkus 
Features Editor: Beth Hall 
St. Mary's Editor: Maria Gallagher 
Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson 
Associate Editors: Ed Ellis. Bob Higgins 
Special Projects Editor: Dan Barrett 
Asst. Ad Manager: Patti Strobel Business Secretary: Ceil Popovich Subscriptions Manager: Art Ferranti Production Manager:. Joe Wilkowski Circulation: Roger Burrell Night Editor: Joe Abell Asst Nile Eidotr: Bill Brink Day Editor: Bill Sohn Ad Specs: John Rumbach Ad Layout: Ken Tokolish Copy Editor: Mike Baum Pictures: Jerome Phillips Typists: Dave Rust. Diane Chermside, Mary 
Romer, Torn Modglin, Rich MeLoy Nile Controller: Harry Chung 
Friday, March 2, 1973 the observer 
7 




pinkham piece premiers at smc 
by dave rvst 
Electronic music has been the musical his three-movement Easter Set, com­wanderer most people hadn't known was missioned by St. Mary's in honor of retired here. Although its history is generations South Bend Symphony Orchestra director long it was not really noticed popularly until Edwyn Hames, and a splendid almost a Mr. Moog in the East collaborated with overpowuing example of what the syn­Walter Carlos to produce the Moog syn­thesizer can be made to do for serious 
thesizer in 1966. music. 
Serious composers have been working Dr. Pinkham, a native of Massachusetts with synthesizers for a good number of and now Director of Performance of Early years now. One of these composers, an Music at the New England Conservatory of artist whose musical composition work Music, is primarily concerned when com­
extends back to 1942, one of the most famous posing with allowing the "creativity of the men in musical circles today and who has performer" to shine through each work. written prodigiously for almost 30 years, is Daniel Pinkham. And today, Dr. Pinkham 
"tapes" made by synthesizer
is at St. Mary's. "If you contrast my work of ten years ag<
premiere performance 

with what I'm doing now, you'd find that the 
Tonight at a:oo he will conduct the parts I write for voices are much simpler College Choir of Saint Mary's and Notre than they used to be," he said. "I've tried to Dame in the world premiere performance of put all the complexity into the tape and give 
•


macuna1ma 
roast our hero, or the guests who dine byIn the Brazilian forest, a poor woman falling into a swimming pool filled withgives birth to a frightening black "child", cadavers, guts flying everywhere. Next to
hideous. snaggle-toothed, about four years old. and measuring 5 feet 6 inches tall. After this supermonstrous comedy, our own 
frenzies seem tame and insipid, civilized,urinating on his mother and playing a number of other vicious tricks, he comes ~nd very bourgeois. upon a magic fountain, the water from mixture of comic and tragic
which makes him "white and beautiful." In addition. he becomes a prince by smoking a -~ film then is a mixture of the comic "sex cigarette". Surely here is a man who an~1te inordinate, a mixture which can will deal harshly with a big city. evoke Rabelais mixed with the Absurdist 
Alfred Jarry. This insane kind of cinematic 
insane scenes 

expression is.._4iverted from tragedy by a kind of exaggei:ation where the coursenessIt is almost impossible to describe this becomes a sign (Jf, the grotesque. Yet, theRabelaisian film Macunaima. For 95 tragic is present, a~}n all the truly comic, minutes <of BRAZIL NUTSl, the viewer is when the laughter hiD.~ died away.
presented with a sequence of insane scenes, woven from local tropical legends about Saturdaywhich one understands little, but which in 
In short. J\llacunaima ts. a far step forward total make an incredible effect. There is a in the area of surreal filmmaking (as wit­brash attitude toward revolt present in the nessed by its reception at the Venice andfilm that virtually has little equal in the Cannes Film Festivals). For· those whocinema world today. 
deem to step in and witness its magic world, the film. quite appropriately billed at 95
"satyricon" 

minutes of BRAZIL NUTS, will be shown 
The strong moments in Macunaima are this Saturday at 8, 10, and midnight in the unforgettable. Witness, for example, the Engineering Auditorium. Sponsored by the banquet more "satyricon" than all of Cultural Arts Commission, admission' will Fellini. or the hysterical women who want to be $1. 

lakeside studio exhibit 
A special one-day presentation of original old master and modern master artists lithograph. intaglio, serigraph and woodcut such as· Albrecht Durer, Jacques CaBot, prints will be held TuesdayMarch,.e' from 10 Georges Rouault and Pablo Picasso. Also am to 4 pm in the O'Shaugnessy Hall Art there will be prints by contemporary artists Gallery of the Univer:iMty of Notre Dame. Leonard Baskin, Garo Antresian, Mark The public is invited to view this unique Tobey. Sid Chafetz, S.W. Hayter and many collection of Lakes1de Studio from Lakeside, others including Marvin Lowe, James Michigan and to meet their representative, McGarrell, Rudy Pozzatti and Don Vogl Tom McCormich, who will be happy to from Indiana. answer questions both historical and technical. All works to be displayed are 
two-fold purpose

a\'ailable for purchase. 
The purpose of Lakeside Studio is two­
valued over $10,000 

fold. First, to make available high quality, original prints to established and beginning The work to be exhibited at the gallery, collectors and, second, to fulfill a need for 
l'alued at over $100,000, contains prints by rapport with the working printmaker. 

Located on five wooded acres overlooking Lake Michigan. yet within an hour's drive of Chicago. the studio offers a fully-equipped lithograph and intaglio workshop. These facilities have been set up and operated by master printers trained at Tamarind Lithography Workshop in Los Angeles. 
Lakeside Studio 

Prints by Rudy Pozzatti, Sigmund Abeles and Misch Kohn. to name only a few artists, have been printed and published by Lakeside; a total of nearly fifty editions have been completed so far. The studio also offers a summer' course for professional printmakers. This course is directed each year by various noted artists and professional printers. Included on the property is a 50 room hot.el which was once a popular resort and now provides living quarters for l'isiting artists, educators, ('urators and gallery directors. The Lakeside Studio collection of over 1000 original prints tours the country each year, \'isiting major museums and universities. 
the singer a lot of latitude to do whatever he does best while performing. That way the audience hears the richness and complexity and the singer is not made to suffer for it.'' 
His:"tapes" are direct recordings from a synthesizer. Dr. Pinkham has several; his portable synthesizer, the instrument he brought with him to St. Mary's, is a desk­blotter sized blue-gray box whose face is pockmarked with symmetric jacks from which run a Medusa batch of gray patch cords, and rows and rows of black dials sit between. 
A patch cord is plugged in--the synthesizer screeches. A dial is turned and the screech goes broken, regular and accelerates. Another patch cord and twist of the dial produces a sombie harpsichord treading into the distance, and yet another stimulates the spring inside the box, calling up the sounds of an explosion. 
"You can make this machine go anywhere from ugly to . repulsive," laughs Dr. Pinkham while at the controls. 
But witness what happens when these series ofsoundsare skillfully martialled and arranged on tape and set to voice and percussion. 
soloist Susan Stevens 

This is the Easter Set. In the first movement, "Litany," the choir begins with the tape, resonating at their lowest pitch while a ·soloist (Susan Stevens) wails alleluias. As' though from underwater the choir rises to match decibels with the,soloist and five antiphonal singers, scattered throughout the audience and now off on their own musical tangents, and the choir breaks into a strong harmonic climb up and fall down. 
They will do the same three times, dying to the last voice and setting the stage for the "Acclamation," a wild flight into hell with timpani and tape. 
Then follows the more traditional "Carol," a happy earthy Easter song that pounds forward on the force of percussion, tape and ingeniouslyconstructedrhythms for the chorus that play accents against each other until the piece ends on a joyous chord. 
Easter Set is only one of the works of Daniel Pinkham that will be presented this evening. The others-two more by choir, six by soloists and duets, and four by the chamber singers--reflect a career that has taken Dr. Pinkham almost every musical where. 
Chamber Singers 
The Chamber Singers perform some of Pinkham's sweetest and most lyrical work. His Wedding Cantata, a four movement vehicle which begins joyful, goes solemn, then wild, then reflective, is an especial favorite of his. He wrote it for the marriage of two Dutch friends, and both bride and groom sang it together with a small group at their own wedding. The fourth movement was an afterthought, something Pinkham decided had to be written the night before the wedding. Her.vrote it--they performed it. 
Wedding Cantata 
But could he write Wedding Cantata today? 
"I don't know," he says thoughtfully. "It never occurred to me. I don't suppose I could. Composers are always wanting to go back to their previous work and change here, changer there--but it's best to resist. Each piece of music is written in a different mood, and it's impossible to return to a piece later, make a change ortwoandstill be faithful to the mood~" 
most heard composer 
Pinkham is probably the country's most heard composer living today. 
"I've published just about everything," he says with pride, including two symphonies \a third is in the works), chamber music, concertos, opera, ballet and twenty TV documentary scores. 
Out of the whole spectrum of work, only those pieces written since 1971 are elec­tronic. In the 30-year preceding period he wrote what average ears would call more "traditional" music. 
"But I have always been interested in matching voices with instruments," says Pinkham. "I've writen for voice and brass, voice and piano, voice and violin--the switch to the synthesizer was a natural step. There was no change in musical attitude." 
That says i lot about electronic music­and this particular composer. Come see this evening at O'Laughlin, eight o'dock. It's free. 
• 
presented both for the students, as well as a number of 3-5 year-old Headstart groups. 
The cast has made a policy of allowing the Headstart youngsters to come back stage for autographs and to talk with the actors. 
'Some of them ask if they can hug you because you were so good," Janet said, "and it makes it a very worthwhile and rewarding experience." She explained that being part of the Children's Theatre was not necessarily easier than a campus production because the youngsters tended to be very noisy and disturb the concentration of the actors. 

The ND-SMC Children·s '1 neatre will present their interpretation of Lewis Carroll's Alice in Wonderland in the Little Theatre of Moreau Hall this Saturday at 10 
a.m. and 1 p.m., and this Sunday at 1:30 and 4 p.m. The production, part of the senior comp of director Carol Lambka, stars Janet Hyan as Alice and Mary Walsh as the White Habbit. 
Despite being geared to children as part of the Children's Theatre, the play "containS many lines geared to ND-SMC adults because only they would understand them," according to Janet Ryan. It has been 
the observer Friday, March 2, 1973 
Letters••• .•. on security, morality, amnesty 
respondent. !<,or both parties know must strive to avmd the agnostic of charity. m•sty. In past wars. it could be what "crime in the streets" as a assumption that everyone who There are indeed many things dealt with in a l';tlm manner with
1nside jobs?' 

phrase, is intended to mean. seeks wisdom can rationalize his wrong with Notre Dame, many little or nopublierecugnition of the Armed robbery in a university wav to an encounter with the things which sadden me. But since fact. The Vietnam Conflict hasJ<:ditor: 
eommunity is to be deplored. Ch;ist. To avoid this assumption, it I am a scholar, I would prefer to molded the U.S. press around the ten
Disturbing insinuations must also is necessary that those of us who talk about the problems, not about issues of war and peace forAn earlier form of this Jetter 
bt> deplored. are Christian do not insulate the people who make them: and years. The length of the war and over a different signature was sent ourselves from scholars who seek since I hope to become a Christian, the constant effect of having it to you and was not published. 
Hespectfull•· vours, truth in contexts which differ from I must decline your invitation to brought so close to home to soNPilher was its sequel. 
ours. And we certainly cannot use make judgements about the moral many Americans for so long hasI take responsibility for the H.R. Carby-:::.dmuels our conception of Truth to make responsibility of others. And as had the ultimate ramification ofaccompanying form which I send 
moral judgments concerning them ,,·hat some social psychologists
both a scholar and as an aspiringalong over my signature. For the 

or the fitness of the contexts within refer to as "desensitization": an
Christian, I must accept respon­rfr('ctive content of the matter still 

Chrif"tian honor which they work. sibility for what I say. and attitude of neutrality, if notstands. I also expect that the 
Finally, a Christian approach to downright hostility to human
respectfully decline your Com­Observer will give the matter the 

Editor: questons of personal morality­suffering. whether it be of a
mittee's suggestion that I refrainsam(' prominence that it gave to Since the Jetter which prom­any Christian approach to from signing this response. Vietnamese peasant. a wounded some suggestions from members 

the enclosed respons~ morality, of which there are soldier. or a conscientious ob­of the black community. For the publishe<l__it~ to me that countless versions-is derived Sincerely, in Christ, jector. The intensity of the debateg('n('ral misunderstanding that the 
some of your readers might wish to from the prior free gift of Christian over amnesty has on!. served to content of the suggestions in consider an alternative viewpoint. faith. Not every Christian tradition Hobert L. Kerby hurt is prospects for fullfillment.
r('spect of a "Black House" have I regret that the enclosed is so subscribes to the natural law Assistant Professor of History Although one cannot specualte asengt:>ndered, has contributed to a long, but the length seems theories of medieval Latin Presbyter. Melkite Greek Catholic to how Mr. Nixon would havefdt deterioration of the cordiality 
necessary to explain the position. scholasticism, and even Roman Church responded to the issue if it had notthat should exist in the academic 
Catholic scholars question the been so terribly "politicized",environment that we share at this universality of these theories. there is no substantial reason touniversity. 
Dear Dr. Vasta: Being derived from faith and being believe that the President wouldIt is my opinion that wittingly or As a recent appointee to the something less that perfectly Political issue not have followed sound historical
unwittingly. the Observer has 
faculty. I am not familiar with the demonstrable, the ethical and precedent which has been the('Onlributed to the current and background behind your Com­moral norms of Christianity Editor: nearly unilateral grant of thesomewhat undesirable felt tone of mittee's letter of 6 February, nor transcend secular experience and privelege of amnesty.
race relations on this campus. 

with the circumstances which are essentially unenforceable. As The question of amnesty which It would seem. thl·n. that theSome honest land open discussion prompt your inquiry. However, as Christians, we are invited by grace has been raised by Father question of amnesty is one ofshould contribute to a remedv. I requested, I have read your letter to respond freely and with joy to Toohey's publicized letter to political finesse and prudentialtherefore think that publication/of verbatim in my classes, and have the Christ. the Lover of men: if we President Nixon and Father judgement. A Machiavellian willthese two letters may assist in that done so without comment. accept this invitation, we, our­O'Toole's reaction to Father look at such ahighly volatiler·emt>dy. 
Nonetheless I am most disturbed selves. are empowered to live in Toohey's position is one that has political issue as amnesty and by your letter. Although I neither His Kingdom. to live the life of love not been dealt with in its proper make his judgement according to a wish to reply to the question asked which our moral norms describe political dimension by either cost-benefits analysis that has hisLetter: 
nor to belabor the issue posed, I and. by our lives, to bear witness to gentlemen. own political security as theThe Observer recently reported should like to offer some ob­the eruption of His Kingdom into Father Toohey's expressed criterion for final judgement. Mr.
about the deplorable incident in servations for your Committee's the world. But if we are em­sense of moral indignation cer­Nixon has made his choice "forwhich three black youths com­
consideration. powered to be lovers in Christ, we tainly would seem to have con­present". We can only hope thatmitted armed robbery in Alumni If Notre Dame is to be a are certainly not authorized to siderable historical precedent Mr. Nixon wil be consistent in hisHall. 
university. the basic quality which judge or condemn others, or to (i.e., amnesty has been granted to superficial brand of politicalIn the process of reporting the must characterize the scholars impose coercive moral sanctions large numbers of other men in past (•!hies: it is the only hope we haveincident and also reporting on the who assemble here is responsible · upon persons who may not share wars who would be similarly of his changing his mind.
fact that a series of thefts and 
intellectual integrity. If someone our convictions. The one power we classified as "conscientious ob­
robberies have also occurred, the has an opinion based upon study are given in relation to others. is jectors" as well as deserters, draft Barry James O'Connor Observer (Tuesday, January 30, 
and mature reflection, he must be the power to forgive. In order to be dodgers. etc.l. Father O'Toole 
197:l, page 2l quotes Security Chief 
at liberty to express that opinion Catholic. therefore-in order to suggests that Mr. Nixon is only
I'ParsJo have said that he does not for the consideration of his make present in the midst of men showing due respect for the Peace Corps jobsbelieve that these robberies have 
colleagues. At the same time. he He Who is Compassionate Wisdom "legislated" authority of the
heen "inside jobs." l<:dit.1r:
must accept responsibility for Incarnate-this university must llnited States. What Father 
:\t the risk of being accused of 
what he says, and be willing to refrain from judging or con­O'Toole fails to mention is the
showing evidence of over sen­Liberal Arts students reading
debate and defend his opinion in an demning persons. While norms for fact that the l'n•sident, to whom he 
sitivity. I \\ould like to address tlw J<'Pb. 26th Observer article
op('n forum. In the process. he Pvaluating intellectual integrity l'laims the legitimate capacity to
myself to some implications ofthis about Peace Corps could get the
must respect the intellectual in­may properly be a matter of "take \\'hal action he sees fit. 
quote. I do so for the reason that ('JToneous impression that unless
tPgrity of others. including those concern for this academic com­ac~ording to law", can "according
th(' prud('nt person should at all tlwy ahve had job experience
who disagree with him, and must muni tv. the enforcement of per­to the law", extend ;tmm•sty to
times be aware that the formed rl'IPvant to the Peace Corps there
refrain from permitting sonal ',1:orality is not. soem (iO,OOO young men who have
attitudes of most persons (however arl' no opportunities for them.
disagreements over ideas to be Tlwr·· are 'many things wrong been exiled from their country for
reasonable such persons may bel This is inaccurate becuase there 
rl'duced to judgment of per­with Notre Dame. as there are opposing a foreign war that has for 
die very hard. The intelligent dre still about 1.400 vacancies for
sonalities. The only norms by many things wrong with any its only precedent for ~ignificant
ppn·0n is also aware of the liberal arts graduates in programs
which an individual qualified for human society. Some of these public con testa lion, the Mexican­
meaning that resides in the coded hPginning this summer. The
mpmbership in an academic things. especially those which American War of 1846. Why does
"crime in the streets." For I'Pace Corps has its own training
communitv is-or. at least, should inhibit the free exchange of ideas the Preident fail to exercise his
l'tllllmunications as practiced in programs for people interested in
lw · the pi·ofessional competence or the communication and legitimate powers? The answer, I
human societies. is a subtle and llw following projects : teaching
and intellectual honesty with trl'atment of persons on terms of would surmise, is neither moral
l'Oill piPx institution. One should English as a second language,
which he pursues truty. Insofar as equality and mutual respect, in­nor legal in scope. It is a matter of
tlwrctore be sensitive to nuances in physical education. health. and
intellectual integrity is a norm for \'olve the issue of justice and hence political strategy. 
community development. 
tlw use of words. even when a 
l'valuating a scholar's fitness, the have a moral dimension. But our 1\lr. Nixon. being an astull'
seE'miPgly simple incident is being 
university may concern itself with common problem is to remove 1\lachiabellian. is very nllteh aware 
Sincerely.
d(·scrit,ed. 

tlw matter of academic honor. This such inhibitions and to discover of the fact that amnesty is not
Given the data on the incident 
kind of integrity is subject to better ways to communicate, not to anwnable (for a number of im­
B(•rnice Hoythat was being·reported, and tlw. 
t'valuation by other competent short-cir'cuit the process by portant reasons l to the majority of 
('ampus l{(;presentative P.C. and
rather "straight-forward" 
scholars. But such evaluation only retreating into the absolutist the American electorate <and here 
\'ist:tstatement that the possibility that 
involves the examination of rhetorics of contesting moralities. I must part with Father Toohey's
the robberies were "inside jobs 111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
nwthodology and scholarly Neither the fact that someone else implication in "millions of
had been ruled out, it would seem (Because of the space required for
technique: it cannot involve the thinks differently than I do. nor the :\nH'ricans"l. The most
that one should be satisfied. coverage of
judgment of persons, or come to fact that he lives differently. ,;ignificant reason for mass op­adc>quate the SBP 
Should it not? election. publication of some of the
conclusions about questions of threatens mv commitnwnt to the position to amnesty by so many
And yet the group that is lc>tters which appear on this page
moral responsibility. Truth which-, can discover through Anwricans is the fact that never 
customarily regarded as the has been delayed more than we
study and through prayer. The before in the history of America's natural perpetrators of "crime in The fact tnat this university is 
onlything that threatens my
the streets" remains uneasy about Catholic does not offer justification 
1·nmmitment is my own sinful lack 
tlw willingness of the Security for amending these principles. ('hief to entertain and to give voice Sinee no two scholars pursue truth to the reported quote. Of course, in the same way. and since no one all investigation should be in this university can fully per­thorough. And I would not be ceive truth. none of us can prepared to say that the Notre stipulate with empirical certitude l>amP student community is a what the truth is that a scholar proper sample from a gropup of must find. Some of us believe that pure and undefiled angels. I am tlw Truth is the Christ. But this left to wonder. however. whether belief is prior to our intellectlUIJ there t•xists a relationship between qul'st and is itself not subject,-Q the race of the robbers and the proof by means of rational · quote from the Security Chief. dt•monstration. Indeed. to be or­
As vou ean see. I also assume thodox. we must acknowledge that that llieft of various sorts from this our faith is God's free gift to us: He campus. had not been hitherto . does not choose to give faith to
• 
unknown. Anti I also am of the l'\'ervone. while He does choose to opinion that It had not been Jll'rn1it many to seek truth apart higherto the custom of the Security from conscious awareness of the Chief io either contl'mplate I that coming of His Incarnate Word. these were "inside jobs," or to give B('ing prior to intellectualization 
,·oice to having rejected that and being undemonstrable. belief possibility. in thP Truth Who is Jesus Christ 
tinder these circumstances, cannot fairly be employed as part thl'refore. I remain uneasy. For it of the normative strucTure-mP is d;fficult for me to decide t•valuating the professional whether some of us have been competence and intellectual praised. or have been insulted. honestv with which those who do And it is also difficult to decide not ~hare this belief puruse truth. wh('ther the insult came from the In fact. if we are to recognize how qul'stioner, and the praise from the remarkable the gift of faith is, we 
THE ROMA 
welcomes 
ND-SMC students 
Your host: Frank Anastasio "W<''IImake you a pizza you can't refuse" 
*DELICIOUS 
ITALIAN FOOD 
*PIZZA 
*LIQUOR 
Dilncing to the sophisticated jazz. rock sounds of Bill Nicks Trio. Open until 4:00am on weekends. 
Happy Hours, 11 :J0-7:00 daily Special prices for drinks. For Deliveries 
Call 234-3258 
211 N. Michigan Ave. 
Downtown South Bend! 1:\ext to Morris Civic I 
ll'nuld normally allow. Our
wars have Americans been made 

apologies to all concerned. ed.)
so aware of the problem of am-



RANDALL'S INN DINNER 
Roost Round of Beef sliced to your liking Two additional hot entrees 
Potato and vegetable Plus: Our own oven hot potato bread assorted salads assorted desserts 
Only $3.90 All you can eat 
Served every Sunday 12 to 8 o'clock 
THE PEACH TREE RESTAURANT AT RANDALL'S INN TRAVELODGE 
130 Dixieway North South Bend, IN. Phone 272-7373 


l 4 

Author Harrington speaks in library 


Socialism from 'New Left' 
by Kathy Hessert Staff Reporter 

An "immediately relevant Left" building a new political movement for domt>stic reform is directly lt>ading our society towards Socialism stated Michael Harrington. socialist author and lt>cturl'r Wt>dnesday night in Washington Hall. ­
1n his speech. "The Future of the 
Ll'IT'. IIarrington. past President 
of thl' National Socialist Party. 
presentt>d an impassioned plea and 
argumPnt for the future of the 
"Left" in the United States. 
I Ia rrington believes the present problem in the U.S. regards the occurance of a cultural revolution unaccompanied by political and Pcor10mic ones. In Harrington's Pstimation. President Nixon's timidity in the realm of social policy and his lack of sufficient t•conomic aid in this area retard concurrent pleas for mere social programs. 
"Nixon does recognize real problems but fails to see the real reasons behind them," he said. 
According to Harrington, Nixon sees the increase of today's per­missive dependent society as a result of lavishing money on problems in the 1960's. Harrington saw the social programs of the ·r.o's as underfinanced, a factor t•ausing their failure. 
Social program·s inadequate 
Harrington reprimanded the ·leaders of the 60's for lack of funds and innovation .in their programs. · St>venty per cent of th~ quantum jump .in Federal. expenditures in 1965 was spent for the non­innovative policies .of Social Security and medicines. 
Harrington cited U.SL Medicare and Medicade Programs as back­wards. "In the 1880's Bismark had national mediCal programs t>quivalent to our innovative ones of 1965." 
The upper income brackets in the U.S. are "the real welfare 
Walter responds to recom.mendations 
(continued from page 5) 
:-;tudPnts are facing great psychological pressur·es. Walter :-;aid. "The pressure at other univPrsities must be much greater since other students with a 3.4 or :1.5 G:RA will not be accepted to medical schools." 
Waltl.'r defended this statement hy presPntil'\~ a survey taken by the Anwricait-Medical College Applicant Service which indicated that Notre Dame's Pre­Professional Department had almost twice the acceptance percentage of other college majors thus far this vear. 
Hecently. ihe Association of American MPdical Colleges proposPd a plan called Ad­ministrative Matching Plan. Its purpose would be to obtain a balance bt>tween state residence, eollegP majQr and school attended for all nwdical schools applicants. 
Waltt>r said that this would have a grpat pffect on the less com­petitive schools and "Only the 
UJ~r alolonial Janrakr ilfousr 
"Enioy a snack or dinner" 
35 Varieties of Pancakes Chicken • Steak -Sandwiches 
U.S. 31 (Dixieway) North Your Host (Across from Holiday Inn) Bob Edwards '50 


chiselers" according to 
Harrington. On this ground, he 
opposes cutbacks in welfare to 
poor people. The budget study of 
the Brookings Institute for 1973 
showPd a cumulative loss from tax 
deductions of $45 billion. These 
deductions overwhelmingly went 
to the rich who aren't required to 
report interest on mortgages, 
property taxes or rental value of 
buildings owned. 
One solution proposed by 
Harrington was a tax reform 
which would shift tax emphasis 
from the working poor to the rich. 
The nl'w system would tax non­
l'arned instead of earned income. 
Subjectivity of the Left 
The politics of the "Left" in 1974 and 1976 reside in a new political constituency. Harrington argues. 
"Onlv radical solutions to problems can cut through beauracracy. We have enormous structural problems in the U.S.," he said. 
He finds coalition of a labor movement with that of the poor and minorities as a necessity in building a "Left" majority. 
"The secret is not a proletariat. We need a coalition of distant and sometimes antagonistic groups to carry a majority," Harrington declared. This is an impossibility without carrying the white working class. Also included were the "peace-nik McGovernites'~ in this ambivalent but necessary coalition. · 
. Harrington views a forseeable future for Socialism in the U.S. in the political·archimedian point of the DPmocratic Party. With full t•mployment as the central issue he f~Is this prescribed coalition is fPasible. 
· •The present ideology of the Democratic Party is not suf­ficient," Harrington said, "but it is a !Qgical rallying point." 
Twenty-first Century 
Socialism for the rich and free 
eoiiPges with a strong pre-med program would survive." 
WaIter recommended that lwforl.' there are any experiments with a different program or dPpartment. he would like to see some concrete reasons as to how the changes would make the program better. 
Walter said that the criteria for a good pre-professional department should be the overall education of 
llw student  as well  as  the  per­ 
l'l'ntage  able  to  go  to  medical  
sehool.  

Walter said. "Thl.' concentration program. which is half science and half humanities already offers the ehance to anyone who wishes a more rounded. education " 
The :·pport hy the Committee to Hl'v iew Ihe Preprofessional Program Program. origianlly publishPd in last week's Notre Dame> Rc>port. has been forwarded to Fr. James T. Burtchaell, llnivPrsitv Provost. No final dt>cisions ·have been made on the eommittee's recommendation~ Pnterprise for the poor is Harrington's solution for society. Today's complex society collec­tivizes as an imperative of high tPchnology. 
"Collectivism is inevitable if we 
are to maximize our capabilities" 
Harrington said. The problem as seen by Harrington is in what kind of collectivism. 
Democracy and the peoplt:! are Harrington's answers. "It is the first step on our journey of 10,000 miles, if I may quote a Chinese saying." he concluded. 
Harrington: "Nixon does recognize real problems. but fails to see the real reasons behind them." 
There are still some {9) seats available 
$189 -complete. Sign up at 
S.U. Ticket Office. 
P.S. All deposits are due & can be turned in there too. 



Long distance still is the next best thing to being there. And you can save 

@Indiana Bell 

.. 
··~ '; '.~. -.~. 'J.;• !• ('' •. ~..

' '· • !' • ' ·' ' < ~···-~ ~f.·•••. 
To create 'better contact with students' 


Cheerleaders revise tryouts 
by Mike Kulczycki Staff Reporter 
Notre Dame Cheerleader Captains, Anne Cisle and Charley Morrison. disclosed WPdnesday that. present members of the cheerleading squad will b~­required to compete against ~r otlwr candidates for the f'Kclm openings. This is a change-,/rom past policy. 
Morrison said the new policy is designed to create P ...better l'Ontact with the students. We don't want to become an autonomous ~roup. We just "/ant to be an ex­tl•nsion of the students." 
Besides stressing that he does not want tht' ch.eerleaders set off as a st•parate group, Morrison said he hopes the new policy gives evervone a better chance. Cisle l'Xplained instead of having fifty girls trying out for two positions, the competition would be for all the spots on the squad, increasing the chances of making it. 
Stay System Replaced 
The stay system for the 

Swint coach asks syndronte help 
Notre Dame swimming coach Dennis J. Stark has asked for campus volunteers to put together a pan~l for the parents of Down's Syndrome children. 
Coach Stark has asked that any one at Notre Dame or St. Mary's that has a Down's Syndrome brother or sister please volunteer "to share their experiences" on behalf of the St. Joseph Country Council for the Retarded. 
The panel will take place on Tuesday. March 6th, and will probably last an hour to an hour and a half. 7:30-9:00. 
"The purpose of this panel discussion is to help parents deal with the problems that arise in their own families, that they are not aware of, or are unsure how to deal with." said Stark. 
"The reason I asked for student volunteers," he continued, "is to aid the discussion by providing distance and anonymity. These problems are of the type that parents just can't alk about comforably with their own kids. I know my kids wouldn't feel at ease criticizing something my wife or I did." 


dll'erleaders required annual trvouts of freshmen to fill four of tt1c twelve positions on the squad. llowPver. four sophomores and four juniors could remain as chPerleaders through senior year without further trial. 
This restricted chance of making the squad to "all or nothing" during freshmen year. with no other chance. 
As part of the new policy, Captains Cisle and Morrison were electPd prior to the tryouts and are the only members of the present squad who do not have to try out 
A similar panel was held last spring and was so well received that I was urged to plan it again. 
Those willing to give up an hour of their time to help the parents of the Down's Syndrome children shoud call Stark at 6222 or leave a note at room 217 in the Rockne Memorial Building. 
•

an open1ng 

again. Cisle said this was "in order to serve as a nucleus to carry over into the following year and to conduct tryouts." 
Tryouts for the ten remaining positions are open to any male or female, ND or SMC students, with no restirctions on class year. It will enable students who missed in tryouts their freshmen year, transfer students, or returning foreign-program students to participate in the 1973-74 cheerleading tryouts. 
Morrison and Cisle hoped the new system would ward off apathy or disinterest which can develop among senior year cheerleaders. 
Morrison added. "If we t'iiminate the stay system, we will ~minate the stagnation that is 
Observer Ads pay offI 

Try it I 

WfD • SAT 9 AN. 12 NOON COMI'LETE !lrBCTAClf

RoGERS SElVICE 
All f\ E OR. 'S PII£SCR"TIONS HONOIEC 
Catf


Optical 

289-7809 

boh~d-to happen when you know ;:===========================~
~ ou are assured of a job." . The .l~ior Captains said the new policy \ · 4ld possibly ease the 


CLRSSFIED ADS
t•motional cts on a student who missed the t uts or making the 
squad. by knowl'R:g one might have another chance. 
RIDES WANTED

The new policy was·a_dopted at a Fl'bruary 15, 1973 n1l'eting of the 
NPed ride for I to Stamford, Conn. 
on March 8 or 9. Call 8745.

ND Cheerleaders with approval of 
more than two-thirds of fhe team 
2 qirls need ride to Cincinnati on

members. Cisle and Morrison gave 
March 8. Call Mary 4635. 

credit to the other members for approving the new policy, even 
Need ride to Philadelphia on Spring Break. Will share ex­

though it would require them to try 
penses & driving. Call 8731. 

out for the squad on an even basis with any other candidate. 
Need ride to N.E. PA Mar. 9 after 
5:00 pm. Call Ed 1604 Drive, share expenses.

Organizational Meeting 
4 qirls need ride·to NY or NJ at break. Call 4101. 5154, 4028. 

Cisle and Morrison announced an Organizational Meeting for the 1973-74 Cheerleader Tryouts this 
Two quys desperately need ride to 

Sunday, March 4th at 3 p.m. in the 
Miami on Mar. 7. Will share 
driving and expenses. Call Pete. 
8810. Please give us a break.

Halfway House of ND Holy Cross Hall. This meeting will be to in­form the students when and where 
Need ride to Milwalkee. Leave 

the tryouts will be held and on what 
Friday, 2 Mar 73, afternoon-night. 
Call Paul, 8276.

basis the students will be judged. 
Need ride to Lauderdale, 

! r 

you? Carol Ann 
STUDENT UNION PRESENTS THE TRIUMPHANT RETURN OF 
THE BEACH BOYS 
J.L.B. Happy Birthday

Saturday March 31 Tickets: $5.50, 4.50, 3.00 
Stay Loose, Gordie 
June 11, 1974

1-'irst Ticket Sale TODAY at2:30 in LaFortune Center <Third Floor). 
Namcy and Kevin

NOTE CHANGE IN TIME 
Congratulations!

Tickets also on sale at the ACCTicketOffice <Gate 10). 
And many happy returns! 
Girls need ride to Florida March


photographs 
9. Call 4006 or 4047. 
Need ride to Rochester, N.Y. on March 9th. Will share expenses

michael lonier/faye seri 
and driving. Call Bill at 1047. 
Need ride to Binghamton for

isis gallery (northwest corner of 
Spring Break. Call Peg 4975. 
Wanted: rides east -destination,

the field house) 
Boston. Leave Thurs. March 8. 
Call 8906. 
Need ride to Boston. Can leave

march 3rd, saturday 7-1 0 
March 8 or 9. Call Mike 1869. 
Desperately need ride to Stam­

the public is invited 
ford, Connecticut or vicinity for Spring Break Please call Dave 283-1441. 
Desperately need ride to Columbus Wednesday or Thur­sday · Pam 8118. 
I'M desperate! Need ride to St. Louis March 8 or 9. Will pay $$. Call Gary 1774. 
WANTED 
Will do your typing, professional job. Please phone 259-6538. 
Babysitter wanted to live in , room & board and small salary, 2 small boys at Riverside Drive. Phone 234-9357. 
Responsible person wants clean house or apt. to rent over spring break. Call Earl 272-3847. 
Male. 24 years old would like to 
write to sincere people who care 
about the lonely behind bars. 
Wade Romans 131-528. P.O. Box 
69, London Ohio 43140. 
Typing Experience in disser­
tations, essays, term papers. 
Arlene Spitz . 232-9061. 
PERSONALS 
J.M.J. · To be sure. But who are Hollywood or Miami for Spring Break. $$. Ken 3679. 
Need ride to Cleveland can leave anytime Thursday, March 8. Call Greg 1336. 
FOR RENT 
Available for September, two, three, four and six bedroom l1omes. Call Mr. Hambarger 234· 9364. 
Rooms & kit~hen. $40 mo. 233­1329. 
FOR SALE 
AKC Labrador p pup. Reasonable price for student. 283·6556, 9·5 pm. 
For  Sale  Acoustic  brand  am  
plifier, one piece. lust offer.  Call  
234 4547 i1fter 7:00pm.  

4th of July fireworks for sale. Send name & telephone number to Box 685 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
For Sale Kenwood 5002 Amp. $200. Ca II 3272. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost· 72 ND ring initials WHV. La Fortune Basement. Reward 8515. 
MEN! •• WOMEN! JOBS ON SHIPS! No experience required. Excellent pay. Worldwide travel. Perfect summer job or career. Send $2.00 for information. SEAFAX, Dept. F-7, P.O. Box 2049, Port Angeles, Washington 98362. 
Before you buy a diamond learn all the facts. It may save you a great deal. Call James 3118. 
Hot Iine crisis phone Have a problem you'd like to discuss anonymously (drugs, bad trip, family relations, suicide, contraception, pregnancy, abortion, etc.)? Call this number 282-2323. 
OVERSEAS JOBS Summer or permanent. Australia, Europe, S. America, Africa. All professions, $500-$1000 monthly, expenses paid, sightseeing. Free info. Write TWR Co. Dept F2, 2550 Telegraph Ave., Berkeley, CA 94704. 
Need money for Spring Break? Borrow $20 to $150 from Morrissey 
Loan  Fund.  Monday  Friday.  
11:1512:15.  Basement  of  
LaFortune.  

FOR INFORMATION ABOUT GAY AWARENESS COM­MUNITY, CALL 7789, W-Th F 8-10 pm. 
New York Gallery Toru Round trip by bus from South Bend. March 8 12. Tran­sportation $35, Hotel $10.50 nile. Sign up, Dept of Art. 132 O'Shag. 
Will work on Volkswagons 11 years experience. Call after 4:00 pm, 272·3980 or 272-2765. 
Experience Typist Theses, term papers, essays etc. Margaret Gloster 28~-6581. 
The Ombudsman Rider Service will be in operation from Feb. 28 thru Marhc 9 in order to aid in the handI ing of the Spring Break Demand for Rides and Riders! 
Ride needed to Detroit (Grosse Pointe) or East on Ohio Turnpike to Exi.t 5 (Toledo). Can leave Wednesday night. Will share driving and SSS. Please call Pete at 8253. 

Friday, March 2, 1973 the observer 
11 

10 new Bengal champs crOwned 
by Mike Hansen Staff Reporter 

Roland Chamblee became only the third man in history to win four consecutive titles as he defeated Bill McGrath in the 165-pound division to climax the 42nd edition of the Bengal Bouts last night in the ACC. 
The senior from South Bend joined Bill <Zip> Roemer and Tim Reardon in the history books, but · they will Dever tell just how close Chamblee came to being defeated. It was an unhappy ending for the senior McGrath, who closed out his B<'ngal career with just three defeats---all to Chamblee. 
Nine other champions were erowned and five special awards were presented before an all-time record crowd of just under 6,000. No technical knockouts were scored. but the fans received their money's worth as three of the fights were judged to be split decisions. 
The bout-by-bout summary: 
125 Pounds 

Tom Garrity was able to land 
more punches than his opponent Steve Morris and was awarded the unanimous decision. Morris was able to score on some head blows in the second, but wrestler Garrity fought back, using his height ad­vantage to elude the jabs thrown by the Pangborn Hall junior. 
130 Pounds 

A minor ~urprise occurred here as Eli Guajardo punched his way to a unanimous decision over Frank Graziano. The sophomore from Breen-Phillips showed some devasting combinations in putting Graziano on the canvas twice in the third round. Thereafter, it was no contest and Graziano was lucky to finish the match. 
135 Pounds 

The confident Larry Semerad changed his approach from Tuesday's semi-finals and it was successful as he dethroned two­time champion Pat McGrath. ~merad was the aggressor, but s~ome of his strength for the final rol:l'lld when he needed it to sew up the Ciose.Sight. McGrath opened the fight in· ·the first by 


Fencers host four 
by Eugene Fineran 
<Wayne State and Illinois) and 
Notre Dame will close out its Buffalo sports a 12-2 record regular home fencing season with compared to the Irish 13-3 ledger. a five-team meet this Saturday .John Hathaway, Dean Brock­starting at 10:30 in the ACC. In mole. Dave Connor, Thomas 
action Wednesday, the Irish Spahn. and Tom Goeller all cap­
swordsmen had little difficulty tured victories for the Irish in 
disposing of Purdue, 22-5, at West <'pee. The foilists shutout · the 
Lafayette. 
Boilermakers 9-0 with Tri-captain 
The epee squad went 5-4, only Mike Cornwall, Tom Coye and Jim because coaches Mike DeCicco Mullenix seeing action only once and Tim Taylor decided to leave <'ach during the afternoon. Mike Tri-Captain Mike Matranga, John Budd, Earl Glock, and Bob Bird Lauck. Rick Waugh, and North t•ach finished 2-o for the day. Carey horne to prepare for case The sabremen lost once for the WE'stern. Buffalo, Cleveland State, aftE'rnoon as Roy Seitz scored and Detroit. three victories and Tri-Captain
All five teams sport winning Dan Mulligan won twice. Mulliganrecords. Detroit has lost twice now stands 30-8. 
Jim Donaldson:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::;:;:;:;:::::::: 
The Irish Eye 
=:=:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::;:::;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::=:=:;:;:;:=:=:::;:;:;:;:::;:;:;:;:;:,Life 
at the Bengals 
"Fight to Jive_!-· Fight to win'" Knute Hockne used those words. later immortalized by Pat O'Brien, prior to a Notre Dame football game_in the mid-20's. . 
In 1928, Dominic J. Napolitano arrived at Notre Dame. He was an av1d ~ports E'nthusiast and a great b<>Qster of the school. After graduating in l!l:l2. he decided to combine his two loves and remain at Notre Dame, working in the physical education department. One of his tasks was the preparation of fighters participating in the Bengal Bouts. 
That job was "Nappy·s" main interest for the next 41 years. He taught hoys not only boxing. but about being a man. 
"Bo~ing is one of the finest sports I know of," "Nappy" says. "Once a hoy ·is in the ring, he's on his own. He can acquire something in the ring that he can never in any other sport." 
"Nappy's" boxers never have to fight for their lives. But they do fight to win. And. in so doing, they learn a little something about life--its , struggles. its joys, its disappointments and its injustices. At their best, 
that's what the Bengal Bouts are--a hearty slice of life. 
Tlw Bengal Bouts are a little guy like Larry Semerad, who wasn't supposE'd to be big enough, or quick enough, or strong enough to dethrone two-time 135-pound champ Pat McGrath. He had a little less in the way of physical capabilities than McGrath. but he had a little more heart. S<•nwrad wanted the title and, boxing spectacularly in the final two rounds. took it away from McGrath. 
Tlw BPngal Bouts are Roland Chamblee and Bill McGrath. Chamblee, a thrE'e-tim£' champion seeking to become only the third man in the history. of the tournament to win a fourth crown, had to meet McGrath, a man lw ll<ld twice prevented from winning titles of his own. 
Tlwy fought. three good rounds. Six exciting minutes. At the end, Chamblee was adjudged the winner. For Chamblee--acclaim, glory, prid<'. For McGrath--the disappointment of another near miss. 
The BPngal Bouts are also Cecil Boot. He grew up black in America. 1 h,.d fought before. in the social ring even more than the athletic. 
Boot fought Mike McGuire. a hard-hitting sophomore who TKO'd his first two opponents. Using his speed, Boot prevented McGuire from landing a solid punch. The only blow that hurt Boot was delivered by the officials. who named McGuire the winner on a split decision becausl' he had he<>n the aggressor in the first two rounds. 
Boot will never be convinced that he did not defeat McGuire. What ~PE'mPd to him the injustice of the decision affected his gut like no punch that might have landed there. He was heartsick and frustrated af­tprwards. Life had landed another rabbit punch. 
Boot will bE' righting for the next week. Or longer. Fighting the bit­IPrnE.'ss that is bound to follow last night's outcome. There will be no dwers. no trophy if he overcomes that foe. And much pain if he does not. 
The lkngal Bouts are "Nappy's" boys, presenting him a trophy for his lwlp to them and his years of service to the Bengals. 
Tlw lkngal Bouts are "Nappy," emerging from the arms of his boys, and. fighting tears. managing to say, "I was never lucky enough to have d1ildrPn of my own. So you know what these boys mean to me. Thanks." 
Tlwn thE' wonderful little man's eyes overflowed, and he hastily sought tlw dark eorners of the arena. He left his boys in the glare of the lights, the way hE''d been doing for 41 years. 
ThP BPngal Bouts are a way of life to "Nappy." 
In many ways. the Bengal Bouts are life itself. 
decking the Baltimore "senior but he wasn't able to keep the.. fiery Semerad in the center of the iing, where he had enjoyed a definite advantage. · 
140 Pounds 
In one of the evening's lackluster performances, Keenan junior Tom Hudes upset last year's runner-up, Steve Duffy, on the margin of a split decision. Both fighters were even after the first two rounds, but the smaller Hudes got into the quick Duffy in the final round to earn the nod. 
145 Pounds 
If Mike Suddes had fought in the first round like he did in the third, then would have been at least one easy decision for the judges last night. But Mike failed to heed the advice of his older brother Tom, a three-time Bengal champion, and Charles Morrison was given a unanimous decision. The cheerleader clearly took the first round and had Suddes taking a standing eight-count in his own corner just before the bell. The popular senior came on in the second, but Morrison kept throwing punches and just came out ahead in the crucial round. 
155 Pounds 
Graduate student Ken McCandless finally got his Bengal 
Swimmers at Detroit Meet 
Notre Dame's swimmers, having ended their dual meet season with a 7-5 record, travel to Detroit this weekend for their final action of the year, competing in the Motor City Invitational. 
The Irish. fourth-place finishers 
in the 1972 meet, rate as a slight 
favorite in the eight-team In­
vitational because of their overall 
strength and their depth in the 
freestyle events. 
Last weekend, Notre Dame split a pair of meets, losing a one-point decision to Illinois State, 57-56, Friday. then dropping Wayne State Saturday, 71-42. 
The Irish. holders of four Motor 

Larry Scmerad 
Bout title, winning a unanimous decision over Stanford's Tom Bole, who was a last-minute replacement for the injured Jim Burkart. The fight was very close, but Bole left himself open a few more times than McCandless and the Breen-Phiilips resident took advantage of those lapses to score his points. 
160 Pounds 
This battle of first-year boxers was probably the toughest decision of the night. Jerry Samaniego and Jim Lepley warmed up in the first round and then the action began. Samaniego got Lepley on the ropes in the second and got in some terrific punches, but the deter­mined Lepley countered with some of his patented head blows. The senior from Tulsa was an easy I hird round victory, but the first two rounds and the championship went to Samaniego. 
165 Pounds 
McGrath threw some solid punches in what was the night's best first round. But Chamblee kept plugging away and got to McGrath with a straight· dght in the third round. He did it again a few seconds later and it spelled doom for the Off-Campus senior. 
175 Pounds 
Sophomore Mike McGuire wasn't sharp last night, but he was good enough to defeat last year's runner-up, Cecil Boot. Even though Boot was clearly the best boxer in the third round, McGuire's two-round advantabe gave the Farley resident a split decision. 

Heavyweight 
Frank Basanese was able to cut Mike Webb, but the defending champion ignored his injury to successively uphold his crown. Webb was relentless in his pursuit of Basanese and was able to floor the campus strongboy with a devasting left-right combination. Basanese performed admirably in the ring but couldn't withstand the continous !onslaught by /Webb. 
Five special awards were presented last night by the officers of the Boxing Club. President Mike Suddes honored the director and "father" of the Bengal Bouts, Dominick <Nappyl Napolitano, with a trophy while the huge crowd gave Nappy' a standing ovation. Mike McGuire was the recipient of th<' Most Outstanding Boxer Award and the trophy to the Best First Year Boxer went to Jerry Samaniego. The Fr. Brennan Sportsmanship Award went to the wdl-d<'serving Denny Clark, who was unable to fight in this year's bouts. And the most treasured award of all. the Nappy Award, went to a man who definitely l'xemplifies the traits of the master himself, Mike Suddes. 
WCHA Standings 
Pts. Pis. Pts. W L T Wn Lost Rrm GF G" K·Denver .......211 6 0 52 16 4 137 7& Wisconsin .... .17 8 1 45 23 4 129 97 ~otn.> Dame ....17 9 0 40 24 K 138 116 Michigan Tech .14 10 G40 28 4 1211 102 ~1ic~igan Stale .13 ..3 I ~7 25 10 109 1G:! ~finlll'sota ...... II 12 3 33 35 4 90 96 ;'\ot1h Dakota·..13 14 I 31 37 4 118 1211 Minn,-Duluth ... 13 13 0 :JO 34 8 1211 119 Colorado C ..... 5 21 0 14 50 8 VI 158 ~lichigan ....... 3 .24 o 8 58 6 106'!69 x-clinched lilll'd WEEKEND RESULTS Notn.> Dame 11-4. Wisconsin ~2 Minn.-Duluth ~5. !.linnPsota 6-~ · DPn\'rr ;).9. Michigan State 6-3 Colorado Collt'gP 4-3. North Dakota 2·1 Micbigl!n Trch 5-9. Michigan H 
CI"ME WEDNESD"Y 
Michigan at Michigan State 
WEEKEND SERIES 
~otre DamP at 1\linn.-Duluth (R 
points).

Den\·pr at Michigan TPch (4) 
Minnesota at Wisconsin (4) 
Colorado College at Michigan Stale 
(8) ~lichij:an at ~orth Dakota (4) 
City records. return to Detroit with much the same team that took fourth last year. In that meet, Jim KanE' set standards in the 100-and :!00-yard freestyle, Gene Krathaus won the 50-yard freestyle in record time. <22.5l as did the ND freestyle relay team <3:16.9). 
Last year's winners, Eastern 
Michigan. as well as third-place 
finisher Central Michigan, will not 

lw participating in the field. Notre Dame's toughest competition in the m<>et is expected to be Mar­shall University, Loyola of Chicago <lnd Northern Michigan, second 
place finisher in 1972. 
ND sailors host regatta 
Freshmen and novice sailors 
from 11 Midwest colleges will 
brave South Bend weather this 
WE'ekend to compete in the annual 
Notre Dame Freshmen Icebreaker 
HE'gatta on St. Joe lake. 
Notre Dame. Indiana, Purdue, 
Iowa. Northwestern, Michigan 
State. Ohio State and Miami of 
Ohio are among the schools 
represented in the 22-race event. Labelmaker Makes Cloth and Vinyl Labels 
Irish hopes rest on skippers Rob The remarkable Dymo Home Labelmaker: Made to save any­Gaw. AI Constants, Rob Albergo, one time, effort, and money by keeping household and P.er­Fidele Galey, Skip Reynolds and sonal items in order. Use it with new Dymo Cloth Markmg 
Tape to make durable, easy-to-read cloth labels for school
Bill Reed. 
clothes, work clothes, and other fabrics. Use it with perma­nent self-sticking Dymo vinyl labeling tape to label files, stor­age 'areas, fuse boxes, school supplies, and the children's
Cheerleaders 
things. The perfect home marking system. 

HOME LABEL MAKER 


list tryouts 
L_ '"' Reg. $2.99...Now $1.98
There will be an organizational 
nweting for all Notre Dame and St. 
Mary's students interested in DVMO CLOTH MARKING 
trying out for the cheerleading 
squad on Sunday, March 4, at 3 pm NOW TAPE Reg. $1.25...Now$.9 
in the Halfway House of Holy Cross 
Hall <Notre Damel. ON 
Students from all classes, not VINYL LABELING T
SALE

nwrE'Iy present freshmen, are 
invited to attend the meeting. Reg. $1.25 ... now $.98

AT THE

Inquiries can be directed to Anne Cislr, <B050l or Charley Morrison 
HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
<:ll22l. 


.. 
. .. .. . ................ -.. .. .. .. .. . . . .
~ 
NIT-bound ND hosts So. Carolina 
by Vic Dorr 
Down South Carolina-way, it takes a lot to get folks excited about anything, particularly if that "anything" happens to be a college basketball team. But the residents of the Palmetto State have been avidly following the cage fortunes of coach Frank McGuire's USC Gamecocks for the past several sPasons .. and this year, par­
ticularly!, there is good reason for 
their enthusiasm. 
McGuire has concocted, in his '72-'73 team, a winning blend of youth and experience, and his squad is currently undefgated iat homl'. having won 12 consecutive games in the Carolina Coliseum. l rsc is also 7-5 on the road, and, following Wednesday night's 77-72 home win over Fordham, boasts an ovPraII record 1of 19-5. 
Tomorrow afternoon, the <:arnecocks will enter the ACC as the last regular-season opponent for coach Digger Phelps and his NIT-bound Fighting Irish, and l'lwlps, after an early-week analysis. tabbed South Carolina as "a vPry. very good team." 
The Irish coach wasn't nlistakt•n. South Carolina is strong in th<> backcourt and strong along the front line, and relies on a pair of proven \"Pterans.'in both areas. Tlw Gamecock's floor general is AII-Anwrican guard Kevin Joyce, a li-3 sl'nior who is averaging better than 20 points per game, and whose 41 p_oint pffort against Indiana sent the Hoosiers to an 88-85 defeat, their first loss of the season. 
Seven-foot center Danny Traylor, another senior, anchors South Carolina's front line. Traylor is averaging 12.5 points and 10.4 rebounds per game this year. but he is not USC's only threat up front. Alex English, a 6-8 freshman forward, has scoring figures <14.4 ppgl which are better than Traylor's and rebounding figures 00.4) which are as good. 
"I consider Joyce to be one of the top five guards in the country," said Phelps. "And Traylor,-at seven feet--is tough and physical and can score inside. English also gives them a good scoring threat." 
Phelps has not been the only opposing coach to praise Joyce and English. South Carolina's one-two scoring punch. Terry Holland, whose Davidson Wildcats lost to USC midway through the season, admitted that "Joyce is all they say he is. an All-American, and English is a great player." 
Gampcock coach Frank McGuire discussed English's defensive skills in an equally complimentary fashion: "His defensivepotentialis just unbelievable," said McGuire. "'lie can be another (Bi}J) Hussell." 
South Carolina has another talented freshman playing beside Joyce in the backcourt. He is Mike Dunleavy. a 6-2 New Yorker who is averaging just over ten points per gaml'. Dunleavy, who broke into the starting lineup during the Gamecocks' sixth game of the 

leers at Duluth for key series 
by Jim Donaldson Sports Editor 
Looking at the 1972-73 l"!o.ckey sdwdule. prior to the start of the season. Irish coach "Lefty" Smith rPmarkPd. "That final eight-point sPries at Minnesota-Duluth could !)(' very unportant." Smith could hardh' have realized how propht•lic that remark would prove to be. 
Winners of 14 of their last 17 l<'ague games, the Irish are currently liPd with Michigan Tech 

• for third place in the WCHA with a 17-9 rPcord and 40 title points but, dt>pending on the outcome of this weekend's games in Duluth. Smith's dub could finish anywhere from second to fifth in the final standings. Tht> Irish would like to assure tlwmsp)vps of finishing among the league's top four and thus secure honw-icP for at least one playoff ~nil'S Two wins this weekend 11ould guarantee Notre Dame of at l<'ast ;1 I hird place finish and the Insh l'ould split and still wind up lo111 lh if l><'nVPr. which has ;tln•ad~· wrappl'd up the WCHA l'ha mpionship. wins one of its two f!<lllWs at \\li('higan Tt•ch. 
.\!though lll\l\1 is in l'ighth place 
(t:Ha. and :~o title points) Smith is wary about th~ Bulldogs. Pspecially since their sweep at Minnesota last weekend and lwcause Notre Dame has yet to dPfeat UMD in four meetings. 
"Duluth always has outstanding personnel." Smith said. "The way they handled Minnesota (8-0, 5-3) was amazing. It'sjtard to win two games in Minneapolis. I wouldn't be m·arly as concerned about this \\"l'ekend's games if Duluth hadn't swPpt Minnesota." 
Noting that his club had split its lhrpe previous eight point series this season. Smith commented, "This is an Pight-point series in which wl''d like to win both games. If WP can win Friday, we'll put Wisconsin and Tech against the wall. To be sure of home ice in the first playoff series, though, we'll have to win two." 
Glancing at the Bulldogs' roster. Smith pointed to junior center Pat Boutl'tte and senior goalie J.e¥mrfe 1\Irazke as players who ·could spell lhl' diffPrence between victory ari!:l dPfeat for coach Terry Shercliffe'w sextl'l. 

"Mrawk (4.4 GA avg. lis as good as :my goaltender in the WCHA." Smith said. "He had 52 saves last Friday in the shutout against 
Minnesota. Boulette is their 
numlwr one player and he's tied 
with (Ian l Williams for second in 
the scoring race. As he goes, so do 
the Bulldogs." 
With 50 points <15-35 l, Boulette is well ahead of teammates Chuck Ness (12-19-31) and Mark Heaslip (20-11-:JI l for individual team scoring honors. Pokey Trachsel (13-17-:JOl rounds out Duluth's array of "big guns." 
The Irish. coming off 8-5 and 4-3 \'ictories over Wisconsin, present an awPsome offensive attack and figure to give Mrazek a real test. 
Noire Dame's number one line of l'~ddie Bumbacco. John Noble and Ian Williams ranks as the most potent in collegiate hockey. Bumbacco (28-29-57in league play, :!8-38-76 overall l is the top scorer in the WCHA. comfortably ahead of Boulette and Williams (2:J-27­::.o l. Noble isn't far behind, ranking sixth in the scoring totals wilh .J4 points (16-28). 
Other leading Irish point-getters an· Hav DeLorenzi (19-15-34) and l'aul H(•gan (11-18-29 l. 
With ·defenseman Les Larson ;1ga in ready for action, Notre I>anw will be at full strength. 
Faceoff l<'riday and Saturday in Duluth will be at 9 p.m. EST. 


Brian Winters, a 6-4 junior forward, is the fifth Gamecock starter. An excellent outside shot, Winters is averaging 11 points and 
(i.3 rebounds per game, and is hitting 45 per cent of his shots from the field. 
The Gamecocks, who have won: all three of the previous meetings vetween the two teams, hosted the Irish in Columbia last year, and handed ND a 109-83 pasting. Winters' hot hand bedeviled the Irish in that game, and by halftime coach Digger Phelps' squad was in a hole too deep to climb out of. 
But tomorrow, when the two teams meet. the differences will have evened out considerably. Notre Dame brings a 14-11 record and a bid to the National In­vitational Tournament into the game; while the Gamecocks will counter with their impressive 19-5 mark and an at-large invitation to the NCAA tournament. 
"We're both going to post-season 
tournaments." said the Irish 
coach. as he looked forward to the 
ND-USC showdown. "But what we mustdo is realize that we're playing another good team. This game will be like a final exam for us--it's our last game before the tournament. and we're looking to win it. Or. you could look at it as a scrimmage !)('fore the tournament--but in this case. it's a scrimmage that's going to count." 
Tipoff for tomorrow's regionally televised game will be 1:30 p.m. -­not 3::JO, as was originally scheduled. 
OBSERVER 
SPORTS 


The National Invitational Tournament has decided to bring the Notre 
Dame basketball team back to New York. 
Some people didn't think this could happen and some feel we shouldn't 
have hPen invitl'd because of our win-loss record. But there were two 
factors that weighed heavily in our favor. 
First. we play the toughest schedule in the nation .. This enables us to play a top-ranked team almost every week and gives us a chance to gain sonw rPrognition throughout the whole season. Some teams play five or six rough gamps a year and if they miss out on those games they're done for the yPar. We were able to win eight out of our last 10 games--against promitwnt teams--and picked up an all-important 'Yin against the top New York team. St. John's. After our recent win over Western Michigan, tlw NIT selection committee felt that we had matured enough through the ~·l•ar lo play with any tournament team. Obviously. it was the St. John's game on n•gional TV that impressed lhe selection committee the most. 
Sl'condly. we will attract the crowds in New York. We played twice m N<'w York this year and both times drew the largest atlendence for a l'oliPgP baskl'tball game during this season. Both games, in Madison Squar<' Garden and Nassau Colliseum. werl' l'XCiting and gave the ~Pl'l'tators thl'ir money's worth. The people of New York want to see us hack and they're the ones who pay for the tickPls. After all. any sport is nothing without fan support. and the followers of a given supp<Wt should have somPihing to say about who they want to see play. 
Tlw NIT realizes that we have the talent to play in a post-season lournanwnt and also bring the people to the Garden. The NIT is good for us and wl'rP good for the NIT. 
With llw tournamPnt bid already accepted. a win Saturday against South Carolina would be a fulfilling end to the regular season. We haven't won as many as we would have like. but the experience gained is in­\'aluable. 
\Vl' started the season as a young team: not familiar with one another in game situations and without that air of confidence needed to beat the good clubs. This inexperience cost a few close games in the early part of tlw ~·ear and made for a vPry discouraging December. But, as the season progrPssed. the team was rapidly maturing and molding into a solid unit. Tlw players got to know each othPron and off the court and felt ready to upset somPone. Marquette seemed ripe for the upset and, with the win on•r tlw Warriors. the team and coaches knew we had a chance for tournanwnt selection. 
Tlw players gained confidence and an awareness of one another's moves on the court. It was just a matter of playing consistent ball and not ll'lling down against anyone. Every game was important to our tour­naml'nt hopPs. 
Now tlwre's just one game left. In a way, this is still a young team--all ~ophomon•s and juniors--but you couldn't tell it on the court. By playing I he hard schedule. the team had to grow up fast. And it did. Next year, a lot of those l'arly-season one and two-point losses should be victories and 
I U ISH S\OR F. 1 Notre Dame hopes to see this scene repeated many times this weelwnd at Duluth. Here, Mark tlw tl'a!Jl will play with greater consistency. The future holds great Steinborn, top right, slips one by Wisconsin goalie Jim Makey. things for the Iri,-h and their fans. 











