
OD The Inside 
Library economics ...see pg. 4 Charlie Brown review ... see pg. 7 



Vol. VII No. 119 serving the notre dame -st. mary's community Monday, April 30, 1973 


Hesburgh set goal of 10 
AAUP claims fraud recruitment 
by Jerry Lutkus 
Editor-in-Chief 
Committee W of the AAUP charged Thursday that judging from all available information, Notre Dame is not doing enough to recruit and hold women faculty members at the university. 
Dr. Susan Taub, chairwoman of Committee W, noted that despite Father Theodore Hesburgh's goal of 70 women faculty (a goal that was forwarded to the Department of Health, Education and Welfare), Notre Dame Report No. 7 actually listed only 45 women on Notre Dame's faculty. 
Only 24 Full Time 
Taub, charging these figures were "ridiculous" stated that of the 45, only 24 were involved in teaching or research. Of the 24, 10 are part-time. Taub noted that this constitutes 42 percent of the women's faculty, "an extraordinarily high percentage," working part­time. 
Of the 14 full-time professors, only nine are on the tenure track and two have received notice of the ter­mination of their contracts. Those two, Dierdre LaPorte of General Program and Jill Whitney, also of GP, hold doctorates from Harvard and Yale. 
Presently, according to the members of Committee W Dr. Josephine Ford is the only tenured woman. Dr. Taub noted that this is out of a complete faculty listing of approximately 750 people. 
Refering to Hesburgh's former position as chairman of the Civil Rights Commission, Taub questioned why he wasn't doing more for women faculty members on his own campus. 
"The Administration hasn't been particularly helpful thus far," Taub asserted. "We have been in dialogue with the Administration since December and we fail to see where much progress has been made because of our effort." 
Committee W Started 
Committee W was initiated when the merger with Saint Mary's failed. Taub explained that it was hoped SMCprofessors would be included within the university lists upon the merger's completion. But the failure necessitated the formation of Committee to keep an eye on women's rights for the AAUP 
Presently seated on the committee with Taub, Ford and LaPorte are Dr. Mabeen Herring, Mary Lynn Broe, and Kathleen Maas Weigert. 
January 30 was the first meeting between the Ad­ministration and Committee W, according to Taub. They met with Hesburgh, Fr. James Burtchaell, and Sister John Miriam Jones to discuss the position of women faculty at Notre Dame. 
Taub related that Hesburgh presented a very pessimistic viewpoint for l.i1e future. 
"He explained that not a lot was going to be done in the future," Taub reported. "He expressed his regrets, but the tightening of budgets and all." 
"The university is going to lose," Taub said. She explained that if women are not attracted, the univers­ity is apt to lose federal monies, especially if they are found to be in contempt of the HEW. 
EEDC Receives Complaints 
Already the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission have received complaints about 

discriminator:_vhiring practices against women at Notre Dame and the committee noted that the EEOC was about to receive an(lther. Dierdre LaPorte claimed that the Administration should be giving incentive to hire women while Kathleen Weigert noted that it is nontheless depart­mental decision. She added that department chairmen should be given some incentive though. 
A quota system is not the desire of the committee because they are against special favor. What they want in Taub's words, "is sincere effort to get women and treat them as they treat everyone else." 
Possible Salary Discrimination 

They further expressed their contention that a salary discrimination is in effect against the women. Though the university, as per policy, refused their request to view the salaries of university personnel, Taub related that a quick glance allowed her, leads her to believe that there may be this discrimination. 
Taub cautioned that between departments there is a great variance in salaries in the Arts and Letters College. This makes a short perusal of salaries difficult 
•to analyze. However, from what they can construe, comparable men and women within departments are being paid different salaries. 
Despite an apparent pledge to look into the matter, the committee has received no response from the Provost. 
Attitudes of Women 

They finally expressed their concern for the attitudes of the women who are already on campus. In an open meeting that Committee W had for the women faculty, attendance was poor and of those that showed proved "quite reticent," according to LaPorte. 
"There is a lowJevel of concern on this campus,".. 
LaPorte continued, "despite the fact that these women 
are not too thrilled with conditions here." 
Committee W Report 
Committee W is in the process of finalizing their report and they will present it to the Notre Dame chapter of AAUP in their Spring meeting on May 4. 


Concerned group criticizes1 SMC's parietals proposal I 
by Kathy Bessert 
The Saint Mary's Student Government parietals proposal came under heavy fire late last week in a letter written by a local group calling themselves "Alumnae, Parents, and Members of the Saint Mary's Family." 
The letter expressed opposition to the parietals policy now before the SMC Board of Regeants because it would, "repudiate the Catholic traditions which the Sisters of Holy Cross, for 25 years, have exemplified and taught as moral values personified in the Mother of God." A subcommittee of the Board of Tegents approved the proposal March 30 and if passed on May 3, 1973 by the entire Board, it will permit men in women's dormitory rooms until midnight on Fr!day and Saturday and until 10:00 p.m. on Sundays. 
Miss Margaret Bergan, Dr. and Mrs. Anthony Black, Miss Virginia BGuthrie, Mr. and Mrs. Robert Michaud, Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Moynihan and Dr. and Mrs. An­thony Ostric co-signed theletter. 
They urged concerned ••Alum­
nae, Parents, and Members of the 
Saint Mary's Family... for the love of St.l\farv;s to send your letter or wire today." 
Due to the "great lack of response" to a SMC questionaire distributed in November, the lE'tter suggests that the "silent majority" is totally unaware of the pari~tal 
proposal and the urgency of the matter. All parents of Freshma.1, sophomores and juniors and some faculty members recieved a copy :~f the letter in the mail. Most faculty members did not receive it andmoststudents did. 
"I have not yet received a copy of the letterthrough the mail Qr any other direct source. I can only conclude that it went out to a select group. This letter upholds an alarmist doctrine that may sub­vert the work of an entire com­mittee," said Mrs. Linnea Vacca, member of the faculty and Area Committee on Student Life member. 
"I will say that I have sub­stantial faith in the Board's un­derstanding of the mechamsms underlying this letter." 
Theproposal was taken through the judicial channels of community government. The Task Force on Hall Life and Activities passed the proposal unanimously followed by an identical in the Area Committee 

Finally the Board of Regents Sub-committee on Student Life voted six to two in favor of the proposal. The Board of Regents is the final and uppermost level of Community Governmetnt. 
According to Barbara McKiernan, Chairman of SMC's Board Gf Governance, "H this letter thwarts both what we've worked so hard to achieve legally and what I think represents the maturity of the students, then it seems that student imput in Community Government would be nullified." 
Dr. Bruno Schlesinger, faculty representative on the Board of Regents, feels this last effort campaign to be a "blockbuster." 
When asked for his reaction to the letter, Dr. Henry, SMC President said, "Everyone has a right to speak up. This legal issue is not being handled by rational dialogue but by political pressure. We've been working on all the nuances of this proposal for six ! months. I don't see how you can enlighten people about the subtle complexities involved in one let­ter," Henry stated. 
"In my opinion, the faculty, administration and students have been terrific," he coptinued. 
The 48 hour Muscular Dystrophy Marathon Dance, held in the La 
on Student Life. The Planning "They have conducted the most Fortune Ball Room, came to a tired end Sunday. Of the seven couples Committee passed the proposal by restrained, rational dialogue on a that started, six finished. The $300 first prize was won by a narrow
Tuesday's issue of The 

a vote of fourteen to seven with pressing issue that I have seen in margin of pledges by Rick Kanser and Ann O'Boyle. They collectedObserver will be the last of three abstentions. 25 years." $1,704.01. Special congratulations should be given to the other five who the year. finished; particularly to Willy Frise and Marybeth Lammers who 
finished second with $1,619:47 in pledges. A total of $5,965.26 was
llllllllllllHIII text of letter page11 IIIIHillUlBUIDI 
pledged to M.D. 

Monday, April 30, 1973

l. the observer 
warld briefs 
ll'l 1!17:1 Nt•w Ym·k Tinws 

Washington-H.R. Haldeman, the White House Chief of Staff, and John D. Ehrlichman, President Nixon's Chief Domestic Adviser, will meet with Federal prosecutors this week to discuss their roles in the Watergate break-in and its subsequent cover-up, according to sources close to the case. No subpoena or invitation has been issued so far for the appearance of either White House official before the Grand Jury, the sources said. 
Los Angeles-Defense lawyers in the Pentagon Papers trial are considering a move for dismissal of the government's charges against Dr. Daniel Ellsberg and Anthony J. Russo because of the case's ap­parent link to the Watergate scandal. 
Washington-Key figures in Congress are convinced that Watergate will prove to be President Nixon's Waterloo in the struggle for supremacy between Republicans in the White House and Democrats on Capitol Hill. "I should think the influence of the White House has been diminished, certainly in the short run, " Sen. Robert C. Byrd of West Virginia, the Democratic whip, said in an interview. His opinion was shared by a number of Republican leaders and strategists. 
an campus taday 
7:30 
pm--duplicate bridge; spring trophy tournament, students and faculty welcome, Iafortune rathskellar. 

7:30 
pm--mexican-american series, "perspectives on mexican-americans in the united states," dr. paul taylor, library auditorium. 


8:00 
pm--concert, notre dame jazz band concert with saxophonist buzzy green, washington hall. 

8:00 
pm--lecture, shirley chisholm, o'laughlin auditorium. 

8:00 
pm--lecture, "germany under brandt," alphons horton, former member of the german bundestag, area programs reading room, memorial library. 

8:00 
pm--meeting, election of officers, celtic society, international room, Ia fortune. 



at nd-smc 


An Tostal terzned 'excellent' 
by Bob Quakenbush 
Staff Reporter 

An Tostal '73 brought smiles by the thousands with its three days of festivities as fair weather and friendship dominated the sites of An Tostal activities. 
"There were absolutely no disappointments in the weekend," said a pleased Steve Jeselnick after it was all over. Jeselnick, chairman of the An Tostal Com­mittee, continued, "The students who had worked so hard for weeks in preparation for An 'Tostal '73 were rewarded by good weather and excellent turnouts for all the events." 
"Excellent" was indeed the word, as more than 3000 people, "the largest crowd in An Tostal history," enjoyed Sunny Satur­day's "Free Picnic by the Lake." The Irish Wake filled the South Bend Armory to capacity, with 500 couples in attendance. The Wake was a sellout in advance. 
Over 36 events, nine of them appearing in An Tostal for the first time, were scheduled for the en­tertainment of the students and faculty of Notre Dame and St. Mary's. 
On Gentle Thursday, about 200 Notre Dame men received flowers from ND and SMC ladies through An Tostal's "Floral Amour" service . Mter the Irish lunch prepared by Food Services, the South Quad became the center of An Tostal activity. 
Performing the William Tell Overture and other favorites on his teeth, Breen-Phillips Hall's Dana Payne delighted the Stepan Center audience at the 5th Original An Tostal Amateur Hour. Payne was subsequently awarded the talent show/s championship. 
Afterwards, about 1500 students listened to the sounds of Elf, a rock band from the east coast. _ 
"Mike Lyons and Greg Monito did a terrific job organizing Frivolous Friday," claimed Jeselnick. 
Sunny Saturday included the most grueling contest the festival has ever sponsored: the An Tostal Decathlon. Joe O'Connor of Zahm Hall earned the individual title, cumulating 802 points out of a possible 1000. Alumni's Ed Byrnes just missed with 800. Mike Kelleher, representing off­campus, finished thrid with 798. Scott McFarland of Howard Hall was fourth with 797 points. Keenan Hall won the team title, averaging 
746.6 points per man. Pangborn, with 717.2, and Breen-Phillips, averaging 699.5 per man, took second and third places, respec­tively. Of 73 entrants, 61 com­pleted the entire decathlon. 
Frank Pizzurro, a sophomore from St. Louis, Missouri, sped to victory in Ye Olde Bicycle Race. 
Mter the free picnic, the An Tostal field was the site of many events. Joe "The Pro" Esser of Howard Hall won the frisbee throwing title in the afternoon's first contest. The Beerslayer eluded several pursuers for an hour and was awarded a keg of beer, to "deal w!th as all good Beerslayers do." 

Keenan Hall's John Sharer, Rich Waugh, Greg Aloia, Dave Conners, and Rich Klee supplied the needed muscle and equipment to be first to finish the two laps of the chariot race. 
Memorial School of Nursing's Sue Frey stuffed an entire blueberry pie into the mouth of Pat Ferguson in eleven seconds. The effort was enough to win the pie­eating contest in which Ferguson's sister finished in the top three. 
· To the disbelief of An Tostal veterans, Chuck Hudson of Holy Cross Hall actually found the needle in the haystack. 
The Pangborn Hall Zoomers, Bob Pelpos, Jim Hardy, Rich O'Connor, Carl Ponick, Norman Ross, and Greg Gibbons defeated Alumni's SAAC in the final game of the first annual volleyball-in-the­mud tourney. 
Ten men from Dillon outlasted and overpowered all comers in the very popular tug;-o-war, leaving 
The Observer is publiShed dally during the college semester except vacalions by the stuoents of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased tor S8 per semester ($14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

their opponents "with nothing more than a lot of dirty laundry," noted one spectator. 
Aided by a few timely blocks from the referees, St. Mary's girls from McCandless Hall and off­campus outscored previously unbeaten! Dillon Hall in the An Tostal football classic. 
Finally, the Mark Bloom Band, 

made up of Notre Dame students, performed before a sell­out crowd at Irish Wake. Nearly 50 kegs of beer were emptied by those in attendance. 
"The weekend's last day," said Jeselnick, "was directed by Tom Eichler, Pat McLaughlin and Ron Paja, all of whom have earned a lot of thanks for their effort." 
(continued on pg. 11) 

1 
She NeedsYour Help 

She's only one of the hun­dreds of thousands of small victims of the war in Indo­China-many of them maimed or blinded-who look to UNICEF for help. The United Nations Children's Fund is organizing a massive ·recovery program for young­sters desperately in need of better food, shelter and medi­
1 
cal care. Your contribution may be sent to U.S. Commit­tee for UNICEF, 331 East 38th St., New York 10016. 

SPECIAL WEEKEND ROOM RATES FOR NOTRE DAME PARENTS OR VISITORS 
$6.95  $8.95  
Single occupancy  Double occupancy  
No  Notre  Dame  identification  required,  just  

mention this iad. Effective any Fri., Sat. or Sun. thru June 15th, 1973 except for the weekend of May 18th. 
HICKORY INN MOTEL 
50520 U.S. 31 North South Bend, Indiana 46635 (219) 272-7555 3 miles North of the Tollroad. 
C aiJt<' T V., Air Cond . Phones Send this ad to your Parents. 

'J.'he Colleg!! of Engineering is offering several cciurses in the Fall, 1973 s ... cster, ..U.ch are designed for the non-engineering_ ....jor. 
liE 213 : SPACE TflCHIIOL(X;Y -APPLICATIONS AND EFFECTS ON ruR SOCIET'f 
Dr_. Ingram. Seq, No. 710100, ll 1111' (3-0-3) 
A survey of the space sciences with a diseussion in the appro­priate cont<>Xt of progress that has been made and fts impact on Society. Considerat'lon of future investi,.,•t:ions. 
CE 213 : ~!J\11 liND HIS ENVI!!£!!:-IENT 
Dr. Tenney, Seq. No. 7070700, 1 MliF (3-0-3) 
'ltlis course is desigued to int'roduce the student to the inter­action !'Ot'IJ-2CI1 technolo9y (~an) and natura, and to emphasize the problems when this balanced interaction is disturbed. 
EE 213: i1i\ll 1\ND i:I·:ERGY -All 1\LT~TIVE TO THE ATC»> 
Dr. Berry, Seq. No. 78ll00, 2 TT 4 
A survey of the energy requirements-past, present, and p~ected future. A discv.ssion of the various sources of energy necessary for maJl 's e::istence am! the poeential decisions for preservation of the species, 
tl3 2ll: DITROIJU=ON TO CCffi'UTING,I Seq. No. 701060, 1 MWF (3-0-S) Introduction to computer programming using batch and remote terminal p~ssing Jl_got'ithlps, the Fortnan and BaSic progranllling. languages, SOlution Jtf .,_.ericat-4~ •norl'~numerieal Problems~· (!his course will also be offered during the 1973 Stllllfll<rr Session, Seq. No. 702001, 8 H'lWl'F.) 
ME 213: IMPACT OF NUCLEAR ENERGY Cfl OUR SOCIETY 
Dr. Lucey, Seq. No. 740100, 2 MWF (3-0-3) 
Prerequisites: ;t. year of college lllilth, 1 s-eer of any science. An overview of the sources and uses of nuclear energy for those who will not­specialize in the area. Biol..ogical effects of 1llldiati.on end socioeconood.c COIIsidera.tions are treated. 
!he following courses in the offerings of the.llePiartMnt of Architecture are open tx> all stu:lents, unless otlumdse apecified. 
Arch 144: OCSIGN 'l.'lflXRY 
Seq. Jlo. 730460 ' ,.... (3-0-3) 
'J.'he area of physical and illt~sd.pli.....,. relAtionships as it affects Jll1n and hi-. mvirorli:JCf'lt will be ""J>lore:l. Study of basic desiiJII theory fi'OOI ""~tich 1-.~'!'k in J~~~~m is t!':''ICl.opcd vj.U_ cons~tutc a Mtbodic.al study of th~ effc.~.; of ""'tc>•ia!S, cl.iJoilte, aid orientation upon architecture and 114i1 1s artifacts. 
Arch 5111: Dl'\'!':ODOCTIO:: '!'0 EI~&C::IC OCSlCII 
Seq, No. 733C.OO, 1 Til S \ll-0-3) 
Open tD Juniors, seniors end gNduate ata~~eu .,. iDnochactlal tD the concept of onvUonic c;onditions as the discipu.;.. tlhir.h -t infl.Uenc:a design. 

Final News Staff Meeting 
MONDAY NIGHT 7:00 LAFORTUNE 2-D 
IMPORTANT INFORMATION FOR.ALL OBSERVER REPORTERS(PAST, PRESENT, AND FUTURE) 
* 
Newswriting ccuse(AMST 446) : reservations will be taken *Observer year-end party tickets will be distributed *Applications for vacancies in. Editorlut· positions will be taken. 

* 
Preparations for next year 


-.... • • • I •· 
Monday, April 30, 1973 the observer 
3 



An Tostal: a weekend of ­



fun 
The King of An Tostal, Jim E. Brogan, after a "dirt.v" trick. 


sunshine 
'Hawk' Stevens stole the show at the basketball

sports 
game by -just being himself. 







frolics 

Monday, ~ril 30, 1973
the observer 
Library budget wrestles inflation 
by Jim Greaser 
staff Reporter 

Par1 2 of 11 three par1 series 
The Notre Dame Library is on the verge of a serious financial difficulty. The Library's pur­chasing power has decreased 15 per cent in the past six years due to inflationary pressures in the costs of books and other library materials. Compared to libraries condisered comparable, it finds itself dangerously declining in rank. According to Mr. David E. Sparks, Director of University Libraries, the Library can prodeed in two directions: increase the book budget and decrease the growth of the collections. 
The Budget 

Mr. Sparks stressed the fact that the budget of the Library can only change m proportion to the overall change in the total University budget. The change in the University budget between fiscal years 1969-1970 and 197o-1971 was an 8 per cent increase. For fiscal year 1971-1972, by contrast, the increase in the University budget was only .1 per cent which is, as Mr. Sparks stated, "a little frightening." 
Over the years, approximately 3 per cent of the University's budget has gone to the Library, yeilding a yearly increase in the library budget of about 2.9 per cent. 
To reduce1costs and not reduce 
~>ervices is an extremely intricate 
process requiring the best possible 
use of available funds. Each year 
the University Administration 
presents Mr. Sparks with a single 
figure and it is his responsibility to 
balance the expenditures among 
salaries, books, equipment and 
other minor expenses. 

Included in outlays for equip­ment, the Library administration must allow for things like con­verting the audio equipment from phonograps records to the more efficient recording tapes, pur­chasing machines for the reading of microtexts, keypunches, bookshelves, typewriters, etc. 
In order to maintain a staff of 
qualified library faculty, the 
salaries paid must be substantial and comparable to other in­stitutions. The salaries of non­faculty personnel and student assistants must also be equitable. 
Due to the high cost of slaaries, as well as the extremely large cost of building operations, the Library must also carefully regulate its hours of opening. Mr. Sparks stated that he must, therefore, regulate the building hours and lessen them when few people utliize the Library, for example during vacation and extend the hours durir..g times of greater necessity such as during examination periods. 
Book Purchasing 

Last, but certainly not least, is the budgetary aspect of the pur· chasing of books. How much of the budget is allocated for book pur­chases must be determined by careful proportioning of funds. Though costs can be reduced by, for example, buying only one copy of a book or avoiding those foreign books whose prices are severely increased due to currency devaluations, still the demand for new books is ever-increasing. 
Also on the rise is the cost of books. According to February 5th, 1973 edition of PubUshers Weekly, the average price of a book in 1967 was $8.43 while in 1972 the average price was $12.99 with an average rise in cost of 10 oer cent per year. Periodicals rose in cost 12 per cent per year. The library book budget has only increased 3.4 per cent per year and the result is a constant decrease in its purchasing power. 
Thus the three major divisions of the Library budget: capital equipment, salaries and book purchasing, must be considered in any assessment of the financial crisis. Meeting these demands is, as Mr. Sparks put it, like "juggling three eggb " Money is tight but Mr. Sparks feels that the University Administration is doing its best in budgeting and so he must balance his funds as well as possible. 
Means of Suppor1 

The Library receives its financial support in three major ways: general appropriations, 
MED SCHOOL ADMISSION PROBLEMS? 
Euromed may offer RX via overseas training. 
fDf" the session starting Fall, 1973, the European Medical Students Placement Service, Inc. will assist qualified American students in gaining admission to rec· 
ognized overseas medical schools. 
And that'• just the becinnlnc. 

Since the language barrier constitutes the preponderate difficulty In succeeding at a foreign school, the Euromed program also includes an intensive 8-12 -k medical and conversational language course, man· datory for all students. Five hours dally, the course is given in the country where the stu· dent will attend medical school. 
In addition, the European Medical Studants Placement Servica provides students with an 8·12 -k intensive cultural orienta· lion course, with American student& now studyinll medicine In that particulllr country .-vinll •• counselors. 
Senior or 11r11duate students cumontly en· rolled in an American university are eligible to partocopate in the Eurorned program. 
Perhaps most important, the Euromed Pro· gram helps the student attain his career goal In the medical profession. 
"I would like to thank you for providing me with the opportunity to fulfill my goal of becoming • doctor . • . I believe that your progr11m holds a great deaf of hope tor the future ... in opening doors tor many youn11 Amerlans ... and In aiding the U.S. In Its critical s,hortallfJ of doctors ..... 
•tram a letter from a Euromed participant 
We have helped place a number ot qualified 
students from the United Slates In necog. 
nized medical schools overse~~s. 

For application and further information phone toll free (800) 645-1234 or write ..• 
1 EUROPF.AN MEDICAL Students piM:ement service. inc. =
i:...~Awenue,Aiberbon,N.Y=~ • !:..MJ( ~___.,.__
1 
'~­

gifts and endowments, ana grant funds. The lion's share of the funds come directly from the University budget, but what comes from the other two sources is vital. 
Gifts and endowments, Mr. Sparks stated, vary in size from five dollars into the thousands as the Library. Some gifts., called "wasting funds," carry the stipulation from the donor that the funds be used directly by the Library and forbid investment 
One example of this type of gift is 
that of the Sears Foundation. 
Research Grants 
The other s~urce of funding is the research p;rant. Mr. Sparks feels it 
(cohtinued on pg. 81 

well as in the form of actual books. Many of the special collections 
either were begun as giftsor have Observer Staff
been added to gifts. Most of the endowments from which the Library benefits are not specifically set aside for it but the 
Pick up Party ·tickets funds are allocated by the Ad­ministration. Some endowments are made in the form of resricted 
from editors

funds ; those funds are specifically earmarked by the donor for library use. Most endowments are in­

Party is May 1. 

vested and the profits made off the investment are directlv utliized bv 
I Dimon Yogwt, P.O. Box 4455, atlc:ago, Illinois eoe771 Send me___Dannon Beach Towels. For each one, here is S2 (check or money order)1 and 2 disks trom 0annon Yogurt tops. 
I. ~--------------------------------------------­
I 

~~------------------------------------------­
I 

I Cijy___________sm~---------~·P------­
I 


Monday, April 30, 1973 


Observer Insight 
Center researches Mexican disease 
<Jy Steve Magdzinski Staff Reporter <Part I of a two-part series) 

Thousands of miles from the Notre Dame campus, in the Mexican state of Caxaca, a group of researchers from Notre Dame's Center for the Study of Man in Contemporary Society recently began a study of a puzzling Mexican folk disease called "susto." Until the research is completed, very little is known about the widespread disease or its causes. To many people here at Notre Dame and in South Bend, perhaps just aslittleis known about the Center for the Study of Man. 
Occupying the eleventh floor of the Memorial Library, the Center has published a brochure which says, "From its beginning, the Center has been conceived as a multi-disciplinary research center concerned with bringing to bear on the new problems of the post World War II period the combined resources of the University's Christian heritage, humanistic traditions and scientific capabilities." 
Dr. Arthur Rubel's study of 
"The Etiology (cause) of Susto" is only one of several research projects being done at the present time. Other research teams or programs include Dr. Tjaard Hommes' team on pastoral theology, Dr. Peter Walshe's team on African studies, Dr. Julian Samora's Mexican-American Studies and Dr. Kenneth Sayre's team in the Philosophical Institute for Artificial Intelligence. 

Young girl being treated for susto. Girl left: herbs and and curing materials center; curandira right, kneeling. Father and young brother of patient in background. 
·--... ----------·-----"'···-: ··--·--­
,. ___ ...·.-:-~----~·--. 
Etiology of Susto 

Sus to, or "soul-loss illness," is a serious disease which is widespread in Latin America. Its symptoms are loss of appetite, loss of sleep, loss of motivation to do ordinary tasks and a general weakness. 
"Soul-loss illness" receives its name from the belief of both Indian and Spanish speaking Mexicans that persons with the disease have actually lost their souls after a startling experience. And though all the inhabitants of the three villages studied believed they were susceptible to the disease, only some succumb to it. That is the intriguing part of the diesase, said Dr. Rubel. 
The object of the Notre Dame study is to discover why only some people get the diease and others don't. Rubel asserted there must also be other differences between the well and the sick. 
There are three hypotheses about the causes of the disease. Mexican physicians suggest there 
, is an organic reason behind the disease. which they do not have the technology to discover. Secondly, psychologists suggest that susto is simply a severe form of depression, which the diseased don't recognize as such. 
What Rubel's team wants to show is that susto is brought on by a feeling of inadequately meeting the norms of society. 
The field work for the project was done in two Mexican Indian villages and a Spanish speaking village. The people of each of the villages spoke a different language; Zapotec, Chinantec and Spanish. 
Medical histories and physical examinations were taken of 120 villagers, half of whom were suffering from susto and the other half of whom were not. Physicians studied the sick and the well of the same village, the same age and the same sex. 
To check the psychological aspects of the problem, the villagers received a "22 item screening score." This is a test developed in the United States and adapted for the Mexican study. The "screening score" covered anxiety, agression, hostility, social isolation and other similar areas. 
Rubel's team composed an in­terview consisting of questions designed to learn what the villagers felt was expected of them' as members of the village and if they measured up to the norms they set themselVes. 
Rubel gave the examples' of a woman who thinks she makes inferior tortillas or a man who could not raise enou h corn. These 


SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
Notre Oa,ne, lndlona 
1973 SUMMER SESSION 
SUMMER SESSION I AIN 
1wo week concentrated workshops, day-long
sessions, May 16-30, 3 credits. 
No. Title Lab fee '201 Creative Anatomy 
$20

221 Photography 
10

313 Glassworks 
20

317 Earth Process 
20

409 Six Kinds of Paint 
25

437 Off Loom Techniques 
20

449 Critical Exploration 
5 

ECONOMICS AND BUSINESS 
"Jiay 16-June 15, 3 credits, 
No. Title 101 Typing for Beginners 1 credit, $15 201 Principies of Accounting I 251 Principles of Economics I 252 Principles of Economics II 302 Cost Accounting 
.357 Money and Banking 408 Advanced Marketing
I 

418 Urban Economics 

HISTORY 
Mini courses, in-depth study of single topic, 'May 16-30, 1 credit 
No. Title 
461 Ante Bellum Reform and Reformers (18201860) 462 The Cold War Years: U.S.-Soviet. Relations Since 1945 463 Population Change as a Factor in tbe History of West. Civil. 
464 Ireland: A 20th Century Dilemma 465 Israel: Jew vs. Arab in the 20th CenturJI 466 Nazi Germany 
467 Art and Letters of Renaissance 468 Mysticism: Tolstoy, Gandhi, Thoreau 469 Existential Philosophy and 20th Century
Society 


MATH 
May 16-30, 1 credit 

No. Title 201 Set Theory 202 .Mathematical Logic 

RELIGIOUS STUDIES 
May 16-June 27, 3 credits 
No. Title 
352 World Religions 
;REGISTRATION FEE ....$25.00 

'TUITION PER 
' 


-CREDIT HOUR ... $52.00 
•(non-refundable, to be applied to tuition) 
Call or Write For Complete Summer Bulletin And Registration Forms: 
OFFICE OF THE _llEGISTRAR
-
1Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
Registration forms and fees for classes and _. c-~!'-~~s_!l_eglnnlng May 16 must be In by_ May 9. 
'--·----~~-l 

people, said Rubel, would feel a great deal of anxiety over these ,failures and that may possibly be a 
cause of susto. 
Such a series of questions, l)uggested" Rubel, might be, "Is it necessary to have a team of bulls 
(~ontinued on pg. 10) 




SUMMER SESSION II 
ART 
Two. week concentration workshops, day-long sess1ons, jlfne 11·29, 3 credits 
No. Title fee 141 Encounter with Art $5 203 Design in Nature 5 222 Photography ' 10 347 The Sense of Art 405 Transparent Watercolor 20 406 Oil Painting 20 419 Glaze Chemistry 20 433 Paper as an Art Medium 25 447 The Bizarre in Art 5 

EDUCATION 
Unique Courses with Practical Experience 
No. Title Credit Dates 
216 
Montessori Methods 1-2 June 11-15 400 Reading and the Culturally Different Child 3 June 11-July 13
1410 
Practicum in Reading 3 June 11-July 13
477 
Alternate 'School 2 June 4-8 Glasser VVorkshop
;477 
Alternate School f!, June 11-August 3 Open Classroom Internship 

ENGLISH LITERATURE 3 credits 
No. Title 100 Writing Proficiency June 11-29 300 Children's Literature June 18-Aug. 10 305 Introductory Linquistics ..June 11-Aug. 3 395 Literature of Middle School 
Student <Directed Readings) June 25-Aug. 17 

ENGLISH WRITING 
June 11-July 13, 3 credits 
No. Title 315 Nonfictim. Prose Writing 317 Creative VVriting 

POLITICAL SCIENCE 
June 11-July 20, 3 credits 
No. Titltl' 453 The Cnminal Justice: System 
PSYCHOLOGY 3 credits 
No. Title Dates 156 General Psychology June 11-July 6 481B The Psychology of the 
Black Family June 11-July 13 481C Psychology of Competition June 11-July 6 


SOCIOLOGY 
August 18-~8, 3 credits 
No. Title 354 Qualitative Research 


SPEECH AND DRAMA 
Students eligible 10 participate in summer productions 
No. Title 481 Summer Theatre Workshop 
Saint Mary•s Coll-.ge 284-4800, 284-4803 
Forms and fees for clas5es and WorkShops begl"nrng June 11 or later must be In by June 1. • ~. 
'1 :. 
the observer 
Anthony Quinn in 

Zorba the Greek 
$T 
Eng. AucUtorium 7, 9, 11, p.m. TONIGHT 
j 

r 


r THE OBSERVER 
f AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Jerry Lutkus Art Ferranti 
Dan Barrett
Editodn~ Chief 
Executive EditorExecutive Editor 

NEWS: 283-1715 Lee Gentine EDITORIALS: 283-8661 John Kloos 
Adverti$ing Manager
Business Manager BUSINESS: 283-747.1 
Monday, April 30,. 197~ 

The SMC Letter 
Eiardian Knat Jig-Saw 


Me I'm waitin' so patiently With my woman on the floor We're just trying' to do this jig-saw puzzle Before it rains anymore. 
-The Rolling Stones, "Jig-Saw Puzzle" 

At about 3 am one night during Easter break the rains came, scattering my friends and leaving me alone in my room with nothing to do. Now Iordinarilydon't mind being left alone at 3am, given the high probability these days that were I not alone there would be a black cat, a cockroach, or even a Scholastic editor under my chair. However, I don't enjoy being idle and the combination of boredom and solitude eventually inspired me to work on one of my favorite rainy-time games, the jig-saw puzzle. 
People seem to play all sorts of these solo games, from the daily crossword puzzles to the various forms of solitaire, but I've always preferred the jig-saw puzzle-and for several reasons: first, unlike solitaire, there is always a solution, which may, with patience, be discovered; second, unlike crossword, cryptograms, acrostics and the like, the jig-saw solution is not based on some fantastic esoterism, but may be deduced from studied observation of the physical objects on the table: third, jig-saw puzzles, as my father used to observe as he grimaced and snarled nonchalantly at the debris on the dining room table, are relaxing. 
In any case, I pulled out an old oatmeal box full of jig-saw parts and bagan to work furiously at the pieces, continuing till breakfast the next day, when I came upon a most curious state of affairs-I could not fill the hole at the very center of the puzzle with any of the pieces of the puzzle, though I could see that at least two of the pieces were clearly designed to fit in that hole. 
This was of course distressing, but allow me to explain how this came to happen. As noted, I began work at about 3 am. By four, I had discovered that I was working with not one, but two rectangular puzzles thrown together in one box. Furthermore, the two puzzles were of exactly the same size and had been cut into identical jig-saw patterns. I was naturally surprised, and I glanced around the room for signs of a black cat. 
The first puzzle I was able to identify was a country club scene depicting a small green surrounded by a pond, a few sand traps, and trees. A foursome witn caddies was approaching the green, and a grey stone clubhouse rested solidly atop a hill behind the scene. I suspect the picture was from some famous course somewhere. 
The second picture was somewhat darker in texture, showing a medievalGermanchateaux surrounded on one side by a river and on the other three by a wide moat. The river, the grounds and the castle itself filled,a clearing in what seemed an endless dark green forest. For some reason (perhaps it was the lateness of the hour) the scene in this second puzzle seemed filled with a tense brooding not found in the first puzzle. 
Having discovered that I was in point of fact dealing with two identically cut scenes, I dedided to combine them, alternating golf piece with chateau piece until I had constructed a single puzzle from the two. This I did successfully until time came to insert the central piece. There were of course two pieces that should it. But no matter how I twisted them, they wouldn't. Besides, I couldn't tell which one I would choose if both do fit; after all, the romantic chateau and the golf courses each has its own special seasons. 
At first I became rather irritated at all this, since I was clearly being deprived of a chance to make jig-saw puzzle history ( my spies tell me not too many castles have sand traps protecting their approaches, but then I began to see this as a real test of both myself and this singular jig-saw puzzle. 
So after some serious thought, I took a razor and shaved the inside to the puzzle core. Then I shaved both the smaller pieces. As a result of these adjustments , both these pieces now fit, although neither is there right now. Mter finishing the project, I carefully rolled the puzzle into a cylinder, and placed it along with the spare parts in the oatmeal box. The two core pieces remain on my desk. If I ever decide which of the two potential core pieces I ;>refer, I intend to unfold the puzzle, finish it, and destroy the unused pieces (which, by the way, could be used to make another mybrid puzzle). But for now, the coincidence of two geometrically similar jig-saw puzzles must remain in my memory as one of those strange circumstances that bother the hell out of me. 
The "Executive Committee s" let~ addressed to the alumnae, paren~, and members of the Sl Mary's family is a thoroughly emotional appeal intended to evoke an emotional response. A patently one-sided expression of alarm, it sacrifices a number of important details and links implication with the repudiation of " ... moral values per­sonified in the Mother of God." Further implications raised by the letter bear mention, as well as the omitted facts. 
For one thing, the "members of the Sl Mary's family" appear to be a very select group. Students (who are most directly affected by the policy change) are excluded , as were several faculty members. Could it be that the "Executive Committee" was afraid of student reaction, or that they carefully chose faculty recipients? 
Secondly, the committee members are conspicuously all South Bend residents. No matter that faculty members are included; it is safe to assume that none of them have had any truly intimate contact with recent Saint Mary's day-to-day life, or dorm life. 
Lastly, theletter is insulting to students. Their implication that the approval of this policy would immediately open the floodgates of carnality upon the previously pristine Saint Mary's is il­logicaland, naive. Most students have by now reached the age of majority and all have long since passed the age of reason. The Committee has no right to assume the position of watchdog of the College virtue. 
Why the questionnaire was ignored by parents and alumnae also deserves alumnae don't consider the matter as urgent as does the Executive Committee, and-or that these women who are detached from the situation wisely don't feel themselves in a position to judge the matter. 
examination. possibilities:  There either that parents  are  two and  
daanesbury  
qarry trudea u  
the observer  
final sunday Issue staff Night Editor--Marlene Zloza Ass•t. Night Editor--A! Rutherford Layout--Kathy Kelly (the songstress) Day Editor--Mary Janca Copy Edltors--Ed Ellis and Rick Thues Pictureman--Jerome Phillips Typists--Mary Romer, .Rob Barringer,  Dennis  

If the "majority of parents who did respond" (and no figure is given) op­posed extension of parietal hours, why is it that nearly all upperclassmen and a majority of freshmen were granted "no hours" permission by their parents? If they feel their daughters free to go visiting elsewhere at any hour, it seems paradoxical that they would frown on their entertaining guests in their own f4)oms at controlled hours. The parents appearto demonstrate a faith in the Saint Mary's women that the Executive committee fails to concede. 
The letter also fails to elaborate that the "college committee" is actually the President's Planning Committee, which draws from students, faculty, and ad­ministration--the three groups most closely connected with the proposal's inception and impacl 
Forty-eight percent of the student body responded to the questionnaire, tan­tamout to a landslide in view of the usual apathy. This only serves to underline how removed the Committee members are from the situation. 
The Committee fears that the letter's recipients do not recognize the urgency of the situation. Perhaps there is no urgency at all. Saint Mary's students can best react by continuing to demonstrate the responsibility they have shown thus far in the conception, writing, and sup­port of the visitation proposal, and by keeping their heads in· a situation which commands reasonable thinking rather than emotionalism. 
Maria Gallagher 

Anastasoff, Phil Orscheln, StPve Roper Hal Operator--Mike Goetz Sports N.ight E'ditor--Vic Dorr Visitors--Art, Dan, John Kloos, Joe, Jim, Stan, 
Maria, Joe Raymond, Mike Kathy, Jerry Night Controller--David Rust Surprise--We made It through a whole year! 

~~ 
~ 


the observer · 
7 



•

mov1es, miscellaneous, and emmys 
charlie brown: pure delight 
Warm, brilliant, exciting and hilariously funny are a few of the insufficient adjectives that could be used to describe the ND-8MC Theatre production of Clark Gesner's You're a Good Man, Charlie Brown. This heart-warming musical comedy, based on the Charles Schultz' comic strip, "Peanuts,'' moves at a never-dragging pace, filling up its two short hours with the music and laughter of pure delight. 
good things in small packages 
If ever .something demonstrated the theory of good things and small packages, this show is it. Charles Ballinger has directed a small cast of six very talented people into one of the best acting units of the past two years. Musical Director, Rev. George Wiskirchen, in his first ND-8MC direction, has done a masterful job in bringing the show's simple, joyous music from his five-man orchestra. 
Together they create a show which is so remarkable that if there were any flaws in it at all, everyone was having far too good a time to notice. 
a day in the life 

The play takes place on an average day in 
the life of Charlie Brown and moves so 
quickly from one infatuating situation to 
another that the audience barely has time to 
catch its breath from laughter. The action 
fills the whole theatre with the audience 
never knowing just where the vivacious 
players will turn up next. The effect is that 
the audience is immediately taken up into 
the movement. 
Aubrey Payne, playing Charlie Brown, 
grabs the audience from his first word and 
he never lets them go. He is the lovable 
Schultz character who, moving from one 
personal disaster to another, steals the 
Little Bir:~ Sc:reen 
art ferranti 
If you would ever find a mediocre week for television movies, look no further. This is it. There are two good mysteries, a fair 
mystery a horror film and a farce of a horror film, a couple of specials, and some movies that are not special at all. Wednesday, Alfred Hitchcock via David 
0. Selznick present Gregory Peck as a young lawyer (the film was made in 1948) defending an accused murderess, Alida Valli, in The Paradine Case. Of course, the hitch(cock) is that Peck is married to Ann Todd. Cast as a hanging judge Charles Laughton turns in a believable performance with Ethel Barrymore playing the typical Hitchcock shrewish wife of the judge. The trial begins at 7:00 on 28 (it may be pre­empted by the NBC championship game). 
Hot Mlllions 

Hot Millions on Thursday ateighton 22 has Peter Ustinov at his .roguish best as a swindler who, once tripped up by computers and sent to prison, returns and vows to do in the computers. He begins by programing non-existing companies into existence from London to South America. Bob Newhart, Karl Malden, Maggie Smith (showing her great acting versatility), Robert Morley, and Cesar Romero are all on hand to add to the fun. 
Tonight John D. McDonald's "Taint of the Tiger" mystery is presented as The Man-Trap with the late Jeff Hunter delving into a murder case that involve Stella Stevens and David Janssen before his "Fugitive" days. McDonald'sbrand of wisecracking dialogue (remember Paul Newman's Harper?) is in full bloom in this one beginning ateighton 28; 
Playing opposite that on 16 at 8:00tonight is The Ceremony an uneven sometimes confusing film that follows the attempts to break a criminal out of a Tangier prison. Lawrence Harvey stretched himself too thin when he tried to direct as well as star in it. Others in the cast are Robert Walker (jr.), Sara Miles, John Ireland, and Ross Martin in his pre-"Wild, Wild West" days. Break away from it. 
Cornel Wilde and Jennifer Salt (sexily clad to get viewership) star in 
iim gresser 

audience's heart. Grace Hartigan as Lucy is also out­
. standing. In a difficult role, she draws on a 
· great deal of talent and one forgets that she is not the comic strip character herself. Risking too many superlativ~, Debbie Tirsway, as Patty, does one excellent job in a well suited role. Another great job was done by William McGlinn as Linus. His command of his role alone makes the admission price a good bargain. As Lucy's sensitive little brother, his portrayal was one of the strongest among a field of very tough competition. Andrew Schilling as Schroeder also does a fine job in his first ND-8MC role. 
Snoopy 

Last but certainly not least is Cliff Fetters, whose Snoopy is nothing short of magnificient. His life and enthusiasm add a great new dimension to the character and give it an appeal that only one as talented as Fetters could. His work is so hilarious throughout the play that he practically runs away with the show. His musical number, "Suppertime," is one of the comic highlights. 
Another marvelous musical number is "The Book Report." In a very difficult combination of voices and music, the cast and the orchestra are at their finest. 
the technicians 

A definite pat on the back must go to Carol Lambka and the lighting crew for one of the most effective precise uses of light; it's really rare for lights to add so much magic to a show. 
Congratulations must also go to Tom Mules for the set design and Lois Jamieson for her costumes. They both captured the 
Gargoyles, a horror film that seems to be an "Outer Limits" reject. Filmed in and about the Carlsbad Caverns in new Mexico, our two protagonists come upon a tribe of gargoyles who are bound and determined to keep their existence a secret while they come out of their incubation period, the first since the middle ages. They should have stayed there. This rerun begins tomorrow at 8:30 on 22. 
tour group movie 

Magic Carpet is the made-for-TV attempt at the movie tour-group pictures (If it's Tuesday This Must be Belgium, Three Bites of the Apple) and it, too, is pretty poor. Its cast includes Susan St. James and Cliff Potts (both from "The Name ofthe Game"), Wally Cox, Jim Backus, and his wife Rennie. Pass it by tomorrow atseven on 16. Getting Away from It All, despite its im­pressive cast (Larry Hagman, E.J. Paker, Gary Collins, Barbara Fe! don, Burgess Meredith, Vivian Vance, Jim Backus, and J. Pat O'Malley), cannot.hold to keeping at­tention since it bases itself on old jokes and even more aged pratfalls as twocouplesquit New York for an island off Maine. Airing at 7:30tomorrow night on 28, get away from it. 
· Christopher Jones ("The Legend of Jesse 
James", Wild in the Streets) made his 
movie debut in Chubasco which sounds like 
a meat flavorer . This one has Jonesworking 
on tuna boats to avoid a jail sentence. 
Setting sail atIS:00 Friday 22, cast off from 
it.. Also miss Operation: Kid Brother with 
Niel Connery as a Bondian secret agent in a 
horrible Italian film which even uses Bond-
type themes and girls to sell it. Unfortunaly 
itlacks Bond. With Daniela Bianche, Adolfo 
Celi, and Agati Flori, this film begins at nine 
Saturday on 16. Billed as "Too Much", it is-
too much to bear. "The ABC Sunday Night 
Movie" has a three-in-one special entitle Of 
Men and Women with the segments labelled 
"The Interview", "Margie Passess", and 
"Never Trust a Lady". That begins at 9:00. 
Ateight, the series presents "Robert Young 
with the Young". 
The'CBS Late Movies have three goodies 
this week. Tonight Boris Karloff, Vincent simplicity and detail which -the show demands. 
Perhaps this has sounded more like a promotion than a review, but that cannot be avoided. You're a Good Man, ·Charlie Brown is an excellent show. Though not a major production, even the coldest and most cynical could not help but be carried away by the experiences of the loveable 
Price, Peter Lorre, Basil Rathbone, and Joe. E. Brown spoof horror !films in The Comedy of Terrors. Tomorrow, Glenn Ford has to contend with a bomb on a train in Terror on a Train. And Wednesday, Arthur Penn directs Paul Newman in the best of the sagas of Billy the Kid in The Left-Handed Gun. All the movies begin at 10:30on 22. 
As far as specials go, there are as yet unknown topics for "First Tuesday" with Garrick Utley at 9:00on 16. "The All-star Swing Festival" atnineWednesday, a rerun that features just about everybody whose anybody in the jazz field airs on 16. "It takes a Lot of Love" has Chad Everett discussing people and their pets at seven Thursday on 22. 
The Saga of Sonora is a comedy-musical­western featuring Zero Mostel, Don Adams, Vince Edwards, Jill St. John, Lesley Warren, George Gobel, Carl Ballantine, Kenny Rogers and the First Edition, Roy Rogers and Dale Evans, Cass Eliot, Sam Jaffe, George Kirby, and Frankie Avalon­and all in just60minutes. It airs allnineonl6 Thursday. "Kung-Fu" on Thursday at\8:00 on 28 features Chief Dan George ( !Little Big Man) in a drama about an old Indian going to a hate-filled town to die. It looks good. Finally,"The Bold Ones" returns for the summer at 9:00Fridays on 16 (NBC). 
misc. 
Miscellaneous: The Writers Guild of 
America has gone on strike threatening live 
programming now and already pushing 
back the premeires of thenew shows to late 
September. 

Irene Ryan, who payed the lively Granny 
on "The Beverly Hillbillies" for many 
years, passes away last week. She was 70. 
The crossward puzzle that appeared last 
Friday was not mine, for thebenefitofthose 
who asked. I do not know whoconcocted it. 
, Robert Stack and Leslie Nielson are 
being considered for the lead in the series­
to-be "The New Adventures of Perry 
Mason". I . think Stack as Mason and 
Nielson as his detective Paul Drake would 
be a good combination. 
Jack Palance, who did "pr. Jekyll and "Peanuts" gang. However, only to make this review sound like a review, there was one slight disappointment . It really is too bad there were not many many' more people to enjoy it. 
The ND-8MC Theatre will present You're a Good Man, Charlie Brown at 8:30p.m. on May 3,4,5, and 6 and at 2:30p.m. on May 5. Admission: $2.00. 
Mr. Hyde" a few years ago on TV will do "Dracula" for "ABC's Wide World of En­tertainment"· next season. The drama will center on the, count's young life and what made him have such a nasty fetish for young women's necks (any ND guy could tell you that). 
The Emmys: I shall not list all the nominations for TV's Emmy Awards due to lack of space. But here is a brief synopsis. "The Waltons" received 12 nominations, followed by the cancelled "Julie Andrew Hour" and "Wednesday Movie of the Week" (That Certain Summer with eight and Go A_sk Alice with two) with ten each. "The Mary 1Tyler Moore Show" was next with nine. "Liza with a Z", "The Red Pony", and MASH garnered eight nominations. "The Sunday Mystery .Movie" (Columbo with five, McMillan and Wife with two), "All in the Family", and "The Carol Burnett Show" copped seven. And "Kung-Fu" received six nominations. The 25th annual Emmy Awards Show will be telecast by ABC May 20 from L.A. with host Johnny Carson. ·There are going to be some tough decisions this year. 
The Trivia Bowl: I would like to take this opportunity to thank the whole An Tostal staff for their help, Dave Strobel for timing, and the inimitable Jim Brogan for keeping the score. ND beat SMC in a close contest 290 to 240 to remain undefeated. There is till next year, girls. The winning team con­sisted of Kevin O'Neill (who also won the impersonation contest), Bob Fair, Chris Anhut, Bill Eliot, Mike Becker, Dale 
Brinkman Dameon Duda, Bob Quakenbush, Hoyo Hoyotski, Rich Odioso, Jeff Kapatka, Buzz Craven, Bill Sohn, Keith Lemick, Lew Luft and John Scibayk. The valient SMC challengers were composed of Jody Ploszek, Mary Kay Schirmer, Ann Faherty, Mary Lou Schleck, Nancy Kemp, and Sharon Ames. Thanks. 
Trivia Quiz: For the final question of the year, this being my last column -,hopefullyto return next year, what did Edward R. Murrow always say when signing off on his 

~----~--~--~--------~-­
' 
.. 
the observer Monday, April 30,
8 

Library budget battles inflationary costs 
(continued from pg. 4) 

is his obligation to search out as many of these grants as he can, as they provice funds for certain specific research projects. One pending grant proposal would be a "collection-building grant" for Latin American Studies; another is a grant from the National 
Foundation for the Humanities in the same area. Though funds for this type of grant are not in great supply, they are of invaluable service when obtained. 
Another suggested possibility for Library income would be an o­verhead tax on all grants coming into the University. Mr. Sparks feels that this is generally un­necessary because through the method of University ap­propriations there already exists a type of overhead charge for the Library. He also feels that many grants are not appropriate for such a charge and that many agencies granting the funds would object. 
Administration Efforts 
The University Administration, he feels, is doing their best to fund the Library and he indicate that two of the Library's best friends are Vice-President for Advanced Studies, Dr. Robert Gordon, and the University Provost, Father James T. Burtchaell. 
Currently the Library depends almost entirely on general ap­propriations for its funds, as it supplies about $1.5 million. A small amount of the funds, Mr. Sparks said, come from income from endowments, somewhere under $20 thousand a year. He also stated that presently the Library is receiving no direct grant money. He added that, "all possibilities are open" to maximize library income. "The problem", he stated, "is to develop a funding strategy for the University Library that will maintain and improve the quality of the collections within the resources of the University." 
Status as a Research Library 
One way to evaluate the Notre Dame Library is to compare it with other university libraries. The library is a member of the Association of Research Libraries which includes 84 libraries, 58 of which belong to universities. Of that 58, the Notre Dame Library is placed in a "peer group" of the 14 smallest libraries and certain interesting facts can be gathefed from comparing it to its peefS. That peer group consists of: Bostpn U., Florida State, Iowa State, Maryland, Nebraska, Penn State, Purdue, Rochester. Syracuse, Temple~, Tennessee, Texas A and M, Washington State. 
In· the number of volumes held, Notre Dame's 1,016,254 volumes ranks it ninth for 1971. In the number of volumes added per year, Notre Dame added 57,458 volumes which placed it tenth in comparison. The percent increase in volumes held for Notre Dame has grown to about 5.25 percent per year while the average rate of growth for the peer group has been 
6.75 per cent a year. 
What these statistics show is that Notre Dame has maintained what Mr. Sparks called a "second quartile position" among its peers. 
Not a bad record, especially when one considers the size and res­ources of some of those peers like Penn State which has over five times the enrollment. Also, the average budget of the fourteen is twice as much as Notre Dame's. 
The statistics also show that most in the peer group are suf­fering from severe monetary problems, with four libraries even receiving budget cuts in the last reporting period: 1971-1972. 
The Library and the University Budget 
Another important statistic to examine is the percent of the total university budget which goes to the Library. In this area Notre Dame barely holds its own. The average percent of the total Notre Dame budget which goes to the Library is 
3.1 percent while the peer group average is 3.6 percent. Even in y­ears when the total University budget has not increased greatly Notre Dame has maintained a fairly stable increase rate for the Library. For example, in 1971, when the total budget increased only .1 percent the library budget still increased 2.8 percent. 
Mr. Sparks pointed out that national statistics show a fast, decline in available funds for all libraries at the present. While Notre Dame has not been "overly generotlS in periods of financial 

euphoria,"  neither  has  it  been  
"miserly  during  financial  dist­ 
ress."  


CoUegiute Notes 
Understand all subjects, plays ,, and novels taster! Thousands of topics available within 48 hours of mailing Complete with bibliography and footnotes Lowest Prices are 
GUARANTEED SEND-$1.90 for our latest descriptive Mail-Order Catalogue with Postage-Paid Order Forms too: 
COLLEGIATE RESEARCH l N. 13th St. Bldg. Rm 7~ Phila. Pa. 19107 ROT-UNE'Ul5l 563.-.lllll 

NEED HELP LEAVING N.D.? 
HEADING HOME OR OFF .ON VACATION TO: 


ATLANTA ... NASHVILLE...NEW ORLEANS... FLORIDA...BERMUDA... BAHAMAS ... MEXICO ... THE CARIBBEAN... 
CALL MIKE DEMETRIO 283-8462 e EASIEFIN 
The Wings of Man. 
Decreased Purchasing Power 
One of the most crucial budgetary aspects to be examined is the book budget, that portion of the library budget used for the purchase of new books. WJ;Ule the Notre Dame book budget has in­creased at an average rate of 3.4 percent per year the peer group average increase is 11.2 percent. On the other hand, Notre Dame devotes on the average 35.5 per­cent of its library budget to the book budget which is fairly con­sistant with the peer group average of 36.5 percent. What 
these statistics show is that while 
Notre Dame does not have the funds available of other schools it has managed itself as effieicntly as the others in order to devote a similar precentage of its available funds to the book budget. 
Mr. Sparks pointed out that book prices go up each year an average of 10 percent over the previous year while the Notre dame book budget goes up only 3.4 percent. Therefore, fewer books caQ be bought with the dollars at hand 
The hypothetical number of books the Notre Dame Library can buy at the average book price per year has dropped from 50,000 in 1965 to 35,000 in 1972. This shows a 15 percent decrease in purchasing in the face of an increasing budget. 
Currently, the book budget is in the area of $500,000 which Mr. Sparks feels is, "50 percent short of the educational program they have here." Mr. Sparks believes that if over the next four years we could ­bring our budget $750,000, "it would put us in a much stronger position." With such an increase, Mr. Sparks holds that many of the serious problems would diminish and there would not be the need to ask faculty to take such action as cancelling periodical sub­scriptions. "as it is now, we're just getting by." 
Tomorrow: Part Three 




ATTENTION ALL SOPHOMORES 
Sophmores may start placing ring orders April 24, 1973 
Hours: 9:00 am to 4:30 pm Mon.-Fri. in office on second floor of HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
•







IP 
urope. 

STUDENT·RAILPASS 
Thew•y to see Europewithoutfeelinclike • tourist. 
Student-Railpass is valid in Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Holland, Italy, Luxembourg, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland. 
Eurailpass, Box 90, Bohemia, New York 11716 
Please send me your free Student-Railpass folder order form.O Or your free Eurailpass folder with railroad map. D 
Name ___________________________ 
Street--------------------------­
City_______________________ 
State ___________Zip _____________ 
192C 

·----------------------------------------~ 
So you plan to spend the Summer in Europe this year. Great. Two things are mandatory. A ticket to Europe. And a Student-Railpass. The first gets you over there, the second gives you unlimited Second Class rail travel for two months for a modest $135 in Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Holland, Italy, Luxembourg, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, and Switzerland! All you need to qualify is to be a full-time student up to 25 years of age, registered at a North American school, college or university. 
And the trains of Europe are a sensational way to travel. Over 100,000 miles of track links cities, towns and ports all over Europe. The trains are fast (some over 100 mph), frequent, modern, clean, convenient and very comfortable. They have to be. So you'll meet us on our trains. It really is the way to get to know Europeans in Europe. 
But there's one catch. You must buy your Student-Railpass in North America before you go. They're not on sale in Europe because they are meant strictly for vi~itors to Europe-hence the incredibly low price. Of course if you're loaded you can buy a regular Eurailpass meant for visitors of all ages. It gives you First Class travel if that's what you want. 
Either way if you're going to zip off to Europe, see a Travel Agent before you go, and in the meantime, rip off the coupon. It can't hurt and it'll get you a better time in Europe than you ever thought possible. 
Monday, April 30, 1_973 the observer 
9 


Observer Insight 
Reactions vary as co-ed year culminates 
by Jim Ferry 
Staff Reporter 
The University of Notre Dame opened its undergraduate doors to. women last September amidst a flurry of television crews, six or seven thousand anxious males, and a few prophets of doom who predicted that the land of the golden dome would never be the same. 
The prophets were at least partially correct, because Note Dame (termed "one of the last bastions of male supremacy" by the Undergrou!"rl Guide to American Coile{!'~!. and Univer­dities) has chan~> . at le!:lst ac­cording to the consensus opinion of most domers. The majority view these changes in a very favorable light, but some are unhappy with Notre Dame's first year of coeducation. 
The 365 . women undergrads, quartered in Badin and Walsh Halls, seem to be satisfied with Notre Dame, though their opinions and viewpoints may range from a realistic excitement over the future to genuine disappointment when confronted with a rather token situation that some describe. Alumni Reactions 
When Notre Dame and St. 
Mary's were first considering 
unification, many feared that Note 
Dame alumni would not support 
such a ...,"asure. It seemed 
however, . 'l overwhelming 
majority of the alumni were in 
favor of unification, to such a 
degree that many were amazed at 
the constructive and positive 
alumni response. But when 
unification procedures were halted 
and Notre Da'mearinounced its own 
plans for coeducation, Alumni 
concern grew. Unification was one 
thing, but a separate coeducational 
institution was quite another. 
According to James Cooney, 
Executive Director of the Notre 
Dame Alumni Association, "things 
have gont: .ery smoothly" since 
November of 1971. 
"Their (alumni) majority 
response has been yes to 
coeducation. All in all, I am a little 
bit amazed at the receptivity that 
coeducation has bad among 
alumni." 
Cooney attributed this recep­
tivity to several factors which 
included a certain faith in the 
"leadership and deStiny of the 
place" and that " most of our 
alumni are aware of the challenges 
fermenting in our society." 
AJot of alumni are pleased that their daughters now can attend tt.e same cooege that they did and many alumni are still showing quite a bit of enthusiam about coeducation according to· Cooney. 
Though he admitted that it's too early to access any long term affects that coeducation has had, Cooney himself feels that there will be "some very good ones", even "beyond the obvious fer­tilization of the academic com­munity." 
"The ND women I have met have an affection about the place that they're not afraid to hide. I think that the presence of women is going to enhance the concept of community here. I 'must say in honesty, that I didn't always think that. But these intelligent, creative being!ii can't help but enhance it. It may change, but I think not." They make you think about things you haven't thought of before. Maybe that's the im­portant thing." 
Studemt Reactions 
Male undergraduate reactions after almost two semesters of coeducation vary from the apathetic to the critical and range in between the two points. Male students tended to emphasize the social atmosphere {)f Notre Dame when commenting on coeducation and many felt tliat previous years were more lively in this regard. 
Sophomore Dennis P. Brennan 
thinks there were definitely more 
girls around last year. "Most St. 
Mary's. girls won't even come 
around this place anymore." 
B.J. Bingle felt that as a senior, he's had "little contact" with coeducation and that he'd had his "ties with St. Mary's." 
A 17:1 ration is hardly natural, 
but social relationships are ob­
viously present, and social in­
teraction is of course beneficial for 
the community. The ration has put 
somewhat of a strain, on both the 
men and the women, but his strain 
should be somewhat diminished in 
the near future. 
One area of concern among some 
minority students is the low per­
centage of minority women un­
dergrads; a situation that should 
also improve in time. 
Some women have experienced 
academic "put downs" in the 
classroom by students and faculty 
alike. Though the first semester 
GPA for the Notre Dame women 
was 3.12 (while the university wide 
. GPA was .2.94), The women have been the object of some criticism in academic areas. 
"I don't think that they have made that much of an intellectual impact in the classroom" remarked one student while one member of the Arts and Letters Advisory Council said that he thought their impact a bit ''exaggerated" at best. 
One commented that the women "just aren't able to compete ef­fectively" in Notre Dame's academic comm.mity, tho11gh a 
3.12 figure would tend ~disprove this assertion. 
It can't be accurately deter­mined whether or not academic levels have been upgraded by coeducation, but it seems safe to say that the levels have not been downgraded. The women them­selves seem happy with the academic demands made upon them. Most were satisfied while a number did comment on the overall presssure they experience, the presence of strong competition and the need for a great in­vestment of time and effort. 
The Admissions Perspective 
The University has been criticized by some who felt that the women admitted last fall were nothing more then "walking computers." Though admitting only 125 fr~hman women from 1134 applicants and 240 women transfer students out of a possible 588 would seem to all but guarantee the intellectual ex­cellence of the women, it hardly justifies the claims of "computer' leveled by some undergraduate males. 
The Admissions Office hasn't 
changed drastically in the face of 
coeducation thoughthey are trying 
to reach new schools in their 
recruiting campaign. When the 
Quota Committ_ee determined the 
number of freshmenwomen for the 
1973-1974 school year, "we all 
breathed a sigh of relief" ac­
cording to Daniel Saracino of the 
Admissions Office. 
"The o~y thing that we did 
wrong before was that we could 
accept so few of the qualified 
women. Now we're on the right 
track. The criteria for male and 
female applicants is the same." 
Last year, only one out of ten female applicants was admitted to the university while three out of every ten male applicants was admitted. The 1973-1974 freshman class will be approximately 21 per cent female. This percentage enables the Admissions Office to accept three out of every ten female applicants and three out of every ten male applicants, which will tend to level off the kind of selectivity differences experienced this year. 

A Year of Transition 
Though the first year was one of "transition" and consequently a bit "awkward", Sister John Miriam Jones, Assistant to the Provost, said that "I obviously think it went rather well." 
She" felt that the coexchange program of seven years "set the stage very well" tor coeducation and that the work of the Committee on Coeducation hel.Ded "obviate" many potentiaJstumblingblocks in the was of a successful year. 
"I think the first year went quite smoothly, though obviously, it doesn't say that we're without problems. I think the women themselves ran into many problems. The very fact that women are a minority puts them in a prominent, difficult position." 
A Coed Faculty & Administration 
Notre Dame's entrance into the arena of educating women hap­pens at the same time that women across the country are formulating a new consciousness of their position in society. Thi~ process brings several areas of major concern into focus as far as ef­fective coeducation is concerned. One of these areas of major con­cern is the position of women in the faculty and administration of the university. Both Cooney of the Alumni Association and Sister John saw the crying need for more female staf~ members. 
Cooney felt that "it's got to become a university priority to seek out and find qualified women educators and administators. We need more mature women around here, simply from the standpoint of total experience." 
Sister John termed the issue as 
"a long road to hoe, but one that we 
have to be very serious about at­
tacking." 
Citing a nation-wide survey conducted in the spring of 1969 by the Carnegie Commission on Higher Education, she feels that there are a number of barriers in the way of equality, 
The availability of qualified wimen is still less than the availability of Cl'alified men. Universities are also entering a period of "belHightening" and tenure procedures are growing more complicated. These are b~t a few of the many problems faced when confronting the problem. 
The Carnegie Commission, using carefully controlled statistics and multivariate analysis, has con­cluded that the process will be a long one. If 5 per cent of the present faculty are women and a female hiring rate of 20 percent is maintained, only 11 per cent of the faculty would be women after a 20 year period. Ifthe hiring rate were 30 per cent, a level of 14 per cent would be reached in 20 years. If every other hire were a woman, a 22 per cent level would be reached at the end of twenty years. Though the task seems inevitably long and arduous, it is a necessary one for the impelementation of effective coeducation; at least in the eyes of most. 
The Future 

The experience of coeducation at Note Dame has been a short one, and perhaps it can't be accurately analyzed so early in its history. But everyone concerned with it seems to be preoccupied with its future. 
Junior Chris Amato put it simply when he said that "Coeducation is a good idea ; I just wish it would work." 
A lot of people are wishing, hoping and sorking so that it does work; a lot more than the original 365. 

Simple, straight-forward, classic-outof step with today's throwaway culture. Refillable cartridge, ballpointorfiber tip marl<er in basic tan or navy blue. $1.98: not bad fora pen you may use the rest of your life. 




$198 


SHEAffU.WOilLD-WID£. A ~COMPANY 
--' 

College of science forms committee to·· handle student grievances 
by Jim Lindsay one faculty member, one graduate
Staff Reporter student, and one undergraduate 
Notre Dame students wishing to from each of the science depart­
file a complaint against the College ments, will serve as an appeals 
of S<;ience will have a definite board in cases involving violations 
place to go next fall with the of examination procedures and 
establishment last week of a­other academic grievances. The 
-College of -Science Grievance only cases not to be heard will be 
Committee. 
(continued on pg. 11)

The Committee, to be made up of 
Class Cards for 
NEWSWRITING (AMST 446) 
wiU be distributed on 
Tuesday May 1 
1:00 . 3:45 in the Observer oHices 
'.~.':{"

.......................................... 


~----~~-----;·--------~ 
MAY GRADUATES I 
ASSOCIATES PERSONNEL SERVICES was recently for­med as a subsidiary company of ASSOCIATES COR­PORATION OF NORTH AMERICA to better service the ever-increasing need of professional personnel seeking College Graduates to enter superb management training progra~s. Cu~ently we ~re representing several large comparues seekmg prt>fesswnals in the following fields· ACCOUNTING, DATA PROOESSING, SALES, AD~ MINISTRATION, AND TECHNICAL AREAS. 
Now is the time to start giving serious thought regarding your future. We ask that you let our Professional Staff of Personnel ~naly$ts assist and guide you in this very im­por!ant period. If you are currently seeking to make a desirable career move, please call or comain confidenceto: 
ASSOCIATES PERSONNEL SERVICE 
1030 E. Jefferson Blvd. 
South Bend lnd"' 46604 
219-233-2132 

A licenced employment agency 
' -~ --. ---------... -. . . . ....,., .
' 


... . , .... 
the observer Monday, April 30, 1973
10 
Center checks for cause of susto 
(continued from pg. 5) to pull a plow? If yes, do you have them?" If the villager did not have any bulls or not as many as the other men in the village, he did nob meet the standards he himself set, and this would possibly put him under stress and, under the hypothesis of Rubel's team, susceptible to susto. Until now, the only cure for susto has been through the work of "Lay healers," or men not trained in the medical sciences, using a method learned through trial and error. That method of curing con­sists of taking theIstricken to the place where the soul was believed to have been lost or stolen by evil spirits and to call the soul by the name of the diseased. The healer then leaves gifts for the spirits. Strangely enough, the cure works in many cases. "It is strange," said Rubel. "But we hope to make it less strange by doing this study." He said the research team, consisting of himself, Prof. Carl O'Nell, graduate student Jean Krejci, and Dr. Rolando Collado, a Mexican physician, plans to publish a book about the study, The Meaning of Magical Fright. Rubel said he hoped preliminary results would be available this summer. The work that lies ahead for the Etiology of Susto team, however, is not in the Indian villages of Mexico, but on the fifth floor of the Memorial Library, where the Social Science Training and Research Laboratory <SSTRL) is located. 
Training and Research 
Under the direction of Mr. Marlyn Ritchie, the SSTRL provides both training facilities for graduate and undergraduate students in the humanities and the socio-behavioral disciplines and a research tool for the staff of the Center for the Study of Man. 
One of the Lab's founders, Dr. William Liu, will become the new Director of the Center for the Study of Man July 1. Talking about the SSTRL, Liu distinguished between the training and research aspects of the lab. 
Because of the increasing complexity of very specialized skills, said Liu, the Lab employs specialists in each of the various fields. These specialists perform the "research acts" of statistical analysis, data processing, field work, design and organization. Although some of these research skills overlap, the researcher is not expected to know much, if anything at all, about all of thP. areas. Thus, when the researche1 reaches a certain point in his work, he consults with each of the lab 

Erratum 
On Thursday, April 26, The Observer carried a story which reported that the May 2 AAUP chapter meeting at the University Club would be open to all faculty members and students. Due to space limitations and balloting which will take place at thP. meeting, only faculty members' and student media representatives can be admitted. 
-


:;;v.:;:::::::::::::::x::;::;:::;:WY.V...!W.&.~///)"/; 
0 Manhattanville College
Summer 1973 
Studies in Quantity and Quality of Life SESSIONS 11 AND 111 The journalism lnst~tute SESSION 11 The Publishing Institute. SESSION 111 
• 
Day and Evening Courses in Art, Music, Sciences, Humanities 

• 
For Undergraduates, Graduates, Qualified High School Students 

• 
Interdisciplinary Programs, Teacher's Certification Courses 

• 
Coeducation, Air-conditioned Classrooms 

• 
Residential, Recreational and Cultural Facilities 

• 
Summer Studies in Italy and Spain 


For brochure write: 

Director of Admissions, Manhattanville College, Purchase, N.Y. 10577 914/946-9600 
specialists who take over from there. 
In the words of Dr. John J. FitzGerald, Acting Director of the Center for the Study of Man until Dr. Liu takes over, "The idea is to address current social problems and socio-behavioral phenomena with the most sophisticated available techniques in the several disciplines that are represented up here." These disciplines include economics, sociology, psychology, political science, as well as the humanities. 
It is this stage of computerized research in which Dr. Rubel's susto study is at the present time. His statistical work will now be processed, analyzed and correlated by the computers of the SSTRL. And if the work of Rubel and his colleagues in proven successful, the end of a puzzling disease called susto may be in sight. 
Depletion of Funds 
In the last two or three years, however, research grants from outside sources, such as the Ford Foundation, the Office of Economic Opportunity and others for projects such as Dr. Rubel's have dwindled, said Dr. Fit­zGerald. Along with the tightening of the University budget, the autonomous Center for the Study ol! Man and the SSTRL have turned more and more to the area o( training of· graduate research assistants, using either outside grants from such federal agencies as the National Institute of Mental Health, or such church agencies as the National Center for Church Vocations, or private agencies. 
Dr. Liu gave the example of training students to determine the characteristics of a very pious, religious man. How should it be determined, asked Liu, through a consensus or through a 
...•.• . . . 
Elderly woman being treated for! susto; patient kneeling; curer! standing (calling for her spirit from a small black ceramic pot.) Male witnesses left background. 
. THE NOTRE DAME-SAINT MARY'S THEATRE 
YOU'RE A GOOD MAN CHARliE BROWN 
Clark-l..iesner's musical enLertainment based on strip Peanuts by Charles M. Schultz 
April 26,27,28,29 at 8:30pm May 3,4,5,6 at 8:30pm April 28 and May 5 at 2:30pm Students-Faculty-Staff $2.00 Reservations: 284-4176 methodological study? He said when the problem was tackled by consensus, asking which man seemed to fit the roll of a religious man, only two out of 50 responses named the same man. 

The question was then studied by asking participants to name common interlocking charac­teristics of a pious, religious man. The replies were then fed through the University's computers to compile the data. Thus, said Liu the second function of the SSTRL i~ 
to train graduate students to do this type of research. 
Dr. FitzGerald, in discussing the training aspect of the SSTRL, noted that the Lab is needed not only to train students in the use of 
already  existing  research  
techniques  and  equipment,  but  
also  in  time  to  develop  

sophisticated new techniques and instruments. 
Commenting on the number of projects at the Center at any one time, FitzGerald said, "There is not this neat linear succession. When one project is completed, there is not always one waiting there. Nonetheless the social science and humanities depart­ments here are constantly generating and submitting new projects for external funding. Among the most recent is Dr. Kenneth Sayre's projected two and one half year study of "Decision­Making in the Power Industry" funded by the National Science Foundation." 
At the present time, according to FizGerald, there are ap­proximately one-half million dollars in funded projects in progress. At its most prosperous moments the funding approached $750,000. One of the proposed projects would cost $149,000 for everything from postage to computer costs. 
"More recently," said Dr. Liu, "because of a couple grants from the National Science Foundation and the Department of Arts and Letters, we were able to at least use the skills of the Lab. We are now able to put some of ihe courses in the undergraduate program on the computer." 

fl-,-----·-_...;._.__...;. ___1: 

ll'lDNTElSD R: 
I "ll 
!11"ACIIER TRA1NiN& &I 
:~s s~ , ~ ~"'--· l: 
I f!wPAQ" :t." FAsrEsrG;NM'Itt • : F/'LJ) IN ZDIJCA.,.IJ' l 

1 ,..~ WFQ,,IfflretiiD ~ CM.,. 1
l ___ ~=7 C!'f.!.~~ ~,;JH..~!:4 
the comic 



ATTENTION: 
All Students Interested in Hec.~th Services 
The Preprofessional Advisory Committee is now considering applications for next year. Ap­plications may be obtained at the Preprofessional Office. All applications should be submitted by May 4. 
Frank Banfield 288-0803 Tim Hayes 283-6294 
Students 

rate at Hilton. 
I Send for your Student Identification Card and get a 1 
·-----------------· 
1 big break Of1 rates at Hilton Hotels and Inns coast to I coast. (Grad students and faculty, too.) Just mail this I 
coupon to Hilton Hotels Corp., Travel Dept., National I I Sales Div., 9880 Wilshir-e_Bivd., Beverly Hills, Cal. I 1 90210. Then come visit the Hiltons. 1 
I I
Name_____________________________________ 
I I 1 Address 1 
I City State ip___ I 
I College Class of 19___ I I I 
:XHILTOD HOTELS : 

·-----------------· Whypayretail for hifi? 
Buy direct from us, and you save money with our high-volume prices on more 
than 1 00 name brands. Order from the branch nearest you to save time and money on freight. 
Sendfor 
ourfree 

catalog. 

~-----------------------­
For example, Prof. Edward Kline of the English Department is doing a computerized study of poetry manuscripts. Another groupis analyzing with computers old probate court records of colonial American in order to follow the economic development of the country during that period. Using. traditional methods, these types of studies would take a life­
time, said Dr. Liu. Liu said there is a difference between education and training. 
Education, he said, is the development of the intellect. Training, on the other hand, is the development of certain skills. With this in mind, he said, the task of the SSTRL is to research, to discover new information and to educate the next generation of scholars. "The computer has become part of our way of life and an extension of our intelligence," said Liu. 
Tuesday: A look at the history of the Center, and the research being done. 
•

Monday, April 30, 1973 the observer 1 1 


31 Club withstands Badin Exiles 
Badin Exiles rally en route to a The board strength of Jim "Mad rode successive charity con­earned All-Bookstore honors
by Lefty Ruschmann • hl
thrilling 21-19 victory before an Dog' McLaug in kept the Exiles versions by Clements, Bonifer and being joined on the first team by
In a finish that could put hair on SRO crowd at the Athletic and in the contest for most of the first Creevey to build up a 20-16 lead. Ben Webb of the Rock Jocks Dave the back of a mud turtle, the Publication Center. half, but a drive by Clements, and But the Exiles refused to be Gorecki of the Cardiac Fi~e and favored 31 Club carried home the The winning play was a layup and jumper by Bonifer, closed out. Following Davis' the Clemens twins-Peter and 1973 Bookstore Hysteria crown engineered by Tom Clements-a gave the 31 Club their largest lead jumper, Green stole an inbounds Paul~f the Marksmen. The Friday evening, staving off a late twisting, driving layup in traffic. of the game at halftime. pass and scored, arid McLaughlin Clemens brothers were also named 
• Clements, who had taken charge in Following the break, Mike Green followed up another steal with a co-winners of the "Mr. Bookstore
mplalDtSCaUSe key situations throughout the and Mike Davis brought the layup to make it 20-19 and set the award," given to the non-varsity tournament, finished with seven Exilses back, · and the underdogs stage for Clements' heroics. competitor who had added 'the points, including two crucial closed to 12-10 on Davis' corner. Clements and McLaughlin both most to the tournament.
grievance board second-half free throws. But the shot. ButNorbSchickel'sstealand--------------------------.., Most Valuable Player of the finale score, followed by Tom Greevey's was Mike "Hondo" Bonifer, who tip-in, gave the 31 Club somE
to be developed led all scorers with 11 points. daylight at 14-10. Bonifer scored seven points in With cold and darkness closing 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
(continued from pg. 9) the first session and helped power in, both teams were whistled into those involving a professor's rights the 31 Club to an 11-6 advantage at foul trouble, with the Exiles get----------------------------1regarding grades. intermission. After an initial ting the benefit of the officials' "The decision to form a exchange of baskets, Bonifer calls~ight chances from the free Grievance Committee came as the canned a tip-in and jumper for a 3-1 throw line. But poor shooting from FOR SALE PERSONAL result of Dean Bernard Waldman's lead, and the Club never trailed the line by the Exiles (2-8) marred: 
SPEAKERS: Custom -Made G.B. Gerard. say HI! ...Rainbow
having received a increased after that. their upset bid, while the 31 Club Stereo Speakers. Guaranteed 
good quality. Reasonable Prices.  Anthony: Sorry I was Home.  
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIUIIDIIIIIUumD{IIIIIDII CALL 234-4547 Ask for Patrick  (Emergency!) Sincerely, T.D.E.  
Text of Saint Mary's letter 4.6sui-fe. refrigerator, Allied tape  PR, NO I miss You, PO, IU  
deck, Dynaco Pat -4 pre-amp, st .  
120 amp. Garrard turntable. JoeDear Alumnae, Parents, and Members of the St. Mary's Family,  Tomorrow is my birthday. This  
8427  year will somebody please  
This letter is being sent to you by a group of concerned alumnae,  remember. Jack Greeley  
For Sale: Panosonic AM . FMparents, and faculty members of St. Mary's College about serioLIS 
a Cassette Stereo and 2 Alliedmatter. We are co  Kevin: ·Now it's your turn to get  
Speakers $150 Bill 3336vinced that an expression of opinion must be made immediately or a  a messageJGives me something  
parietal hour policy which will admit men to the girls' dormitories for  to do. Happy day!  
For Sale 125 Suzuki Only Sevenvisitations could possibly be adopted by the St. Mary's College Board of  Marlene·  
Months Old Call Steve 232-2742Regents at their meeting May 4-5, 1973.  
We feel that the adoption of such a policy is an unfortunate and ill­1962 Ford Fairlaine For Sale V-8  NOTICES  
conceived decision which would repudiate the Catholic tradition which automatic; a good urmmer butthe Sisters of Holy Cross-for 125 years-have exemplified and taught as rough. cheap Call Denny 287-7977moral values personified in the Mother of God.  Want to leave your bike in good hands this summer for free? Call  
Briefly, it should be mentioned that a parietal proposal has been ap­VMA .Stereo player-record proved by a college committee meeting March 30, 1973. This proposal will Cassette Deck .with matching  Ken or Lucy Foley 289-2389 or 284· 2564. Need girls and boys bike.  
be submott_ed to the Board of Regents for consideration May 4-5. As a speakers. Extras included $95 result of thos vote men will be permitted in the girls' rooms until midnight 1504 on Friday and Saturday and until10.00p.m. on sundays.  Need a ride to the N.W. ? Drive a ..car and SM trailer to Portland,  
A question_naire concerning this was very largely ignored by almost all For Sale · Ping-Pong table Very  Oregon. Call 1719 or 259-0534  
of a sampling of alumnae contacted (750). It was also ignored or good condition, ·reasonable price overlo~ked by over 341 of all parents contacted. The majority of parents Please call 233-3893 wh~ dod respond, however, expressed opposition to an extension of  Professional typist wiH type, edit papers, theses, dissertations. Will  
p~roetal hours. As a matter of fact, the majority of the student body itself Craig R to R Tape deck plus 15 dod not respond to the questionnaire. tapes $80. 288-4297 It i_s our conviction that the silent majority has not realized the urgency  also type foreign language papers. Reasonable rates. Prompt, accurate service 272-2445  
of thos matter. lnthe rush of daily living and in the complacency "that it '62 Ford Galaxi 500 Good rul\.  after 7:30 p.m.  
could never happen at our St. Mary's," many are totally unaware of the ning condition Call Ed 259-1273 above proposal.  Attention SMC students: ANN  
. P!ease-if you share our concern and feel that the girts' room are off. Set of 6 LSAT Review Books, two lomots to gentlemen callers-write or wire immediately: thirds Bookstore Price Call 2144  KLOOS exemplifies the true spirit of Saint Mary's College Christian tradition. She also has: nice teeth  
Sister Catherine Francis, Chairman 1973 VW Bug . ·yellow. OwnerBoard of Regents returning to Europe . May CallSt. Mary's College 287-8908Notre Dame, Indiana 46556  because she wore braces for two years. VOTE for ANN KLOOS for the LUMEN CHRISTl AWARD! (5ponsored by the AKFLCAC)  
For Sale; VIVITAR 135 mm  
Please-for the love of St. Mary's,--send your letter or wire today! Telephoto lens, 2.8 with case. (Fit Nikon mounts) $50 Call 8284Sincerely,  Will do typing: Term papers manuscripts etc. call: 233-6909  
63 Ford Falcon 6 automatic Good  23 year old inmate would greatl~  
Concerned Alumnae, Parents, and Facu,ty Members of St. Mary's condition $200 Call 287-5237  appreciate a pen-pal. PleasE  
College.  write: Bobby Glacken no. 13487•  
FOR RENT Executive Committee:  P.O. Box 69 London, Ohio 43141  
Summer 73 Furnished House for Miss Margaret Bergan, 828 E. Colfax, So. Bend, Ind. Rent 3-4 Bedrooms . 1'12 bath .  Sale ·great savings used and new titles. Help Pandora's Books'  ...  
Dr. & Mrs. Anthony Black, 53546 Elmhurst St., South Bend living room family room study,Miss Virginia Guthrie, 403-A Lincoln Way West, So. Bend Kitchen w. dining area, basement  spring clean. 602 N. St. Louis at South Bend Ave.  
Mr. & Mrs. Robert Michaud, 52744 Brooktrail Drive, South Bend ·large fenced in yard . swimmingMr. & Mrs. Thomas Moynihan, 1356 E. Monroe St., So. Bend pool May 15 · Aug 15 Call 283-7025 Dr. a.· Mrs. Anthony Ostric, 1114 Foster Avenue, So. Bend , or 259-5178  Lowest rates to all European cities! Daily flights from N.Y.,  
IIUUIIIIIIIIUIIIIUIIIIUUIIWIWWWWWW!!WIIIIIIIIIIIIIflllllllllllllftiiiiiiiiiiiiiiD...­ Chicago, D.C., Philadelphia and  
, Houses and apartments available ·for June or September. Call Mr. Humbarger. 234-9364  others. British overseas Airways . Corp. call Clark 283-8810, for details  
Want privacy? Rooms $40 mo. 233-1329New Jersey Club with  We'll take your stuff home to: Hartford, Springfield or Boston  
for you at semester's end. Info:  
Three bedroom house and four  call 1504 or 1931  
'bedroom house available for June  
orSeptember Call Mr. Singer 234· 5830the Island Club  Connecticut residents! New Haven Sponsored Luggage truck  
will run again this year, stopping  
House for rent, Ispacious, 10 rooms, 1112 baths, 7i minutes from  in several cities For Info ; call Paul 234-4536 
is having summer campus. Very reasonable. 1142  or Bob 233-1030  
LWE, So Bend. Call 288-4148  
The Ombudsman Service will  
6 room BiLevel Apartment, 3 miles from campus. Ideal for 2 students. $85 per month. PresentBAGGAGE student occupants own furniture .  close down its operations at NOON on May 4. Service will Ibe resumed at NOON on Sept. 4. Hours tor next fall will as far as it  
will Bargain for and sell. Call Kevin or Rich at 234-2461TRUCKS  now stands remaini the same . Have a good summer and many  
thanks to all those who gave of  
their time to help make something  
WANTED  out of the Ombudsman Service.  
WANTED: Female apart­DropoH Pts. mentmate for summer: call Jane  EUROPE! TransAtlantic. Flights ($200round trip. Leave from most  
or Ellen 233-1396  majo r cities), Rail Passes, car  
rental Plans, and Camping Tours.  
Female housemate wnated for  For your FREE travel planner  
next year. Call 4449N.J. · Bergen County  contact your campus represen­ 
tative: Shawn Kelly 283-1244  
Room · mates wanted for N D Apts. Call Matt 3385 Rm. 431 Keenan·Asbury Park  Australia, Southeast Asia, Africa, Europe and So. America. For information on employment write  1 l  
Wanted : A fourth student for  International Overseas Seryices.  
Sept. at 810 Sorin. Call 233-9110.  P.0. Box 6534 Burbank, California. 91505  
Ride needed Ifrom Kent StateN.Y. ·Westchester Co.  
(Exit 13 Ohio) to Notre Dame on  New York Met Club Signups, Mon,  
May 3 or 4. Call John 8810 ·  iTues, Wed, in· Zahm Hall  
Basement 7 . 9 PM . Bring $5  
Riders needed to NYC or Conn.  Deposit: For info: 272-1709  
Leaving May 3rd a.m. {Thur­·Garden City L.l.  
sday) Call Dave 3679  'Flying IriSh notice: meeting of  
Roomate wanted for SumJller  April 30th postponed until May 7th.  
(Female) Air Cond. very com­LOADING: MAY t4 15 fortable. $85 mo. Call Kathy 284­4058 Want to buy non-electric portable typewriter Nick Menidl 233-1460  SMC women: nominate Mickey Mouse for the Lumen Christi award! Riders needed from WaShington,  I i  
N.J. 333 \ N.Y. 8736 · 3603 1 Roornfor 2 in house for summer. Near Campus 288-4297  D.C. area out west about May 25th. Call Stev,, 1059.  1 I  
l  

number of complaints regarding cheating this semester," said Barry Wessels, graduate student participant in the Science College Council and former president of the Graduate Student Union. 
"Wth so many complaints being filed, Dean Waldman desired the formation of a committee representing both faculty and students to aid in deciding the individual cases," Wessels said. 
According to present plans for Grievance Committee hearings, each case will be heard by three Grievance Committee members selected by the Dean. The three members will consist of two faculty membersfromdepartments other than that from which the grievance arises and one student of the same class status <graduate or undergraduate) as the student filing the complaint. Afte~; hearing the student's grievance, the three man committee will then make appropriate recommendations to the Dean. In additionto the College Grievance Committee, each department will also establish its own committee for complaints. If a student grievance cannot be settled in the departmental committee, the case 
may then be sent to the College Grievance Committee for final deliberation. 
An Tostal '73 termed success by organizers 
(continued from pg. 2) Jeselnick used· the following 
statement of gratitude to those who helped make An Tostal possible: 
"The weekend would not have been a success without the many people who worlted so hard for so long. Mr.LyonsFtnd his staff from the maintenance department, Bob Smith, manager of the South Dining· Hall, and his assistant, Pat Joyce, Dr. Boromeo and the fire department, Mr. Arthur Pears, and Dr. Robert Ackerman-all of these deserve special thanks. Paul 'We are An Tostal' Gosselin and Kevin Case worked extremely hard transferring equipment all weekend long, getting up at seven every morning and working late into the night. Greg Monito wrote the booklet; Bob Higgins worked on publicity; Rick McCloy made the most beautiful An Tostal posters we've ever had. I was very pleased that our An Tostal Hall of Farner, Jim E. Brogan, made the long trip to return to Notre Dame to emcee two events. And finally, I have to thank the Observer staff, who gave us great publicity through the services of Jerry Lutkus, Bob Higgins, and Bob Quakenbush. Whether they worked for weeks or hours, everyone involved with An Tostal did a terrific job." 
Addition 
In addition to the candidates for Saint Mary's class office men­tioned in last Friday's Observer, the following have announced their ~ndidacies: Terry }\abatsky, for junior class treasurer, and Katie Cassidy, for junior class secretary­treasurer. 
• 

Monday, April 30, 1973

12 

the observer 
Irish err; suffer pair of sweeps 
by Stan Urankar 
Notre Dame misplayed their way into four more losses over the weekend, dropping their season record to a miserable 9-19. The Irish turned II errors into seven unearned runs and gave Miami of Oho a doubleheader sweep Saturday afternoon in Oxford. 
Ted Kazanski 's two-out single then gave the Detroit Titans a hard-earned 5-3 nightcap victory at Cartier Field yesterday to com­plete a UD twinbill capture. Mike Riddell suffered through three unearned runs in the opener for his fourth loss of the season, 4-2. 
Stan Urankar t;=;=;=;=;=;:,:;:;:;:::::::::;:;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;:;:;:::;=;=;=;=;=;=;=~=~=:=:=======:===:=:========================== 


Trivia--polls, bowls, football: the end 
Kazanski's winning hit, his Kirst Roemer put the Irish on the board safety of the day, handed lefty via a line shot safety to right that Rick Eich his sixth defeat of the scored Schmidt and sent year, tying the ND record for Nussbaum to third. Howard Wood losses in a season set by Riddell in then hit into a force play but beat I971. It also stopped an Irish the relay to first, allowing comeback that had knotted the Nussbaum to score. score at 3 in the fifth inning. ND rallied for the tying score in 
After an infield hit, a sacrifice, the fifty on consecutive two-out and singles by Bob Barnett and singles by soph Tom Miller, Sh­Bob Day had boosted the Titans cmidt, and Nussbaum but Detroit into a J-o lead, Notre Dame back bounced back to win it an inning with two scores in the bottom of the later as Kirk Taylor's safety, a fourth. Pete Schmidt opened by sacrfice, and a walk set the stage reaching first on an error and Dick for Kazanski's deciding blow. Nussbaum followed with a. single to Eich was the only pitcher who left. had to assume most of the 
Tom Hansen was retired through responsibility for his demise, but an infield fly, but captain Bob you can chalk that up to fatigue for 
Football \!eekend at Sweeney's-a conversation ... 
"That '66 team was sure a great one," roars an inebriated late '40s ND grad, "but you can't com­pare it to Lujac~ and his boys." 
"Wait a minute!" hollers a young businessman alumnus of 1967. "The '66 defense was the best ever, and you can't beat a backfield of Hanratty, Eddy, Conjar and Bleier." 
"Listen, pal, I saw the '47 team play, and that was the greatest collection of football, players any college team has ever had," the btg guy violently retorts. 
"The trouble with all you old guys is that you thin~ you're never wrong," mumbles the beer­drin~ing youngster. 
"Hey ~id, do you want to ta~e this outside?" The bartender quickly appears with two more draughts, and the discussion is abruptly concluded. 
A Notre Dame graduate who is not a football trivia master? No, not unless he spent four years' worth of football Saturdays doing advanced calculus on the 13th floor of the Library. 
Every Irishman, from vintage Knute Rockne to recent Ara Parseghian, can talk for hours on his favorite games and pet players. Each has his own personal trivia question which, when answered correctly, brings rapid reply of "Oh yeah? Well, who kicked the winning field goal in the such-and­such-and-such football game?" 
Part II of my four year Trivia wrap-up may seem needlessly picayune at times, but if you can sweep through with a perfect score, you must have spent your fall afternoons peeking through the fence 
... 
at Cartier Field. 
1. When the Irish beat Purdue, 8-7, in 1971, Clarence Ellis tackled the Boilermaker punter in the end zone to set up that big fumble recovery by Fred Swendsen. Who was the punter? 
2.\ Only one kickoff and one punt were returned by the Irish for touchdowns in our four years at NO. Give the player, length of return, game, and year that each took place. 
3. 
Remember the 3-o LSU game here, won by Scott Hempel's field goal? The Bayou Tigers had an earlier shot at three points, but the attempt was blocked by an Irish lineman. Who was the kicker, and who blocked it? 

4. 
When the 1969 season opened, Clarence Ellis and Ralph Stepaniak broK.e into the starting defensive backfield as sophomores. Who was the veteran member of that trio? 

5. 
Michigan State never beat Notre Dame in the last four years, though Duffy Daugherty tried a different quarterback each year. Name those fow Spartan signal callers. 

6. 
The freshman year 14-14 tie with Southern California is memorable for that "could-have-been" Hempel field goal. But a different kind of kick, a punt, was also a big one. Mike McCoy blocked the Trojan punter's fourth quarter end-zone attempt to set up the tying Irish touchdown. Who was the USC punter, and what NO halfback scored ·the TO four plays later? 

7. 
Here's a gimme: Only one collegiate quar· terback.has defeated Notre Dame three times in his career, with this gentleman doing it for the last time in 19(;9. Who is he? (Hint: he now handles the signul-calling chores for the winningest team in pro foot '>all history!) 


H When G~rgia Tech visited Notre Dame Stadmm in 1970, the Yellow Jackets surprised everyone by taking the lead on a third quarter, 66­yard scoring bomb. What was the Tech passer to­receiver combination on that play? 
9. Though he tried to do it all, Joe Theismann didn't quite make it in the 1970 Southern Cal game. Besides running for two touchdowns on his own, "Jersey Joe" also passed for a record-setting amount of yardage and twice hit for scores. Just how many yards did Theismann pass for, and who were the receivers on each of his scoring aerials? 
10. 
What was the longest Irish play from scrimmage in our four years, who did it, against whom, and when? 

11. 
What regular Notre Dame opponent has not managed a touchdown in the last three years, and what lone tally did they register? 

12. 
In 1971, the Irish faced a pair of opposing quarterbacks named Jones, and each shared the signal:<:alling duties for his club with another player. Name these four QBs. 

13. 
The Irish met Missouri for the first time in 1970 (on national television), and the Tigers took a 7­3 third quarter lead on Mike Farmer's pass to a speedy senior receiver now with the St. Louis Cardinals. Name him. 

14. 
Freshman year, only one quarterback other than Theismann or Bill Etter performed in a varsity game. Who is he, and what game did he play in? 

15. 
Another country-wide airing saw Notre Dame dump Georgia Tech, 38-20, in 1969. Each team returned an interception for a touchdown, with the Tech player covering better than 100 yards on his theft. Name the two defensive backs. 

16. 
How many shutouts have the Irish defense racked up in our four years? 

17. 
The 21-17 Texas victory in Cotton Bowl I was virtually decided by a fourth-down Longhorn pass play inside the 10-yard line. James Street threw the ball--who caught it? 

18. 
Still on the game at Dallas, the most valuable offensive player in each contest was on the losing team. Name these two stars. 

19. 
In Cotton Bowl II, Notre Dame pulled a sneak third-down, quick kick play that went for 74 yards and broke Texas' back. Who did the bootin~? 

20. 
When ND broke the Purdue hex in 1970, who was the poor Boilermaker sophomore quarterback that suffered through the 48-Q slashing? (Hint: he has since been converted into a safety.) 

21. 
In our four years here, what has been the highest ranking in the polls--either AP or UPI­achieved by the Irish at the end of a complete season? 

22. 
What game did All-American guard Larry DiNardo get injured in, ruining him for most of his remaining collegiate days? 

23. 
Who was the only sophomore starter on the Notre Dame offensive line at the start of the 1969 season? 

24. 
Two eventual All American tackles recovered fumbles for touchdowns in the 1970 USC !Victory at Los Angeles. Name them. 

25. 
Scott Hempel and Bob Thomas did most of the NO place kicking in the last four years. However; two other Irishmen also scored via that route in that period of time. Who are they? 


(Answers in Tuesday's issue) 

Just as there are trivial bits of info that spice up Notre Dame gridiron history, there are also trivial moments that made the last four years great for me: having my rolla way bed folded up with me still in it by Ed Langeand Dick Nussbaum at Wisconsin; Austin Carr cutting down the nets after the UCLA victory: doing play-by-plays as sports director of WSND; all the Badin Exiles; White Sox games with Redman the night before two finals; serving Ian Williams second dining hall helpings of "roast fresh pork loin"~ refereeing the kiddies' games at half time of Irish varsity contests; my shot at choosing the baseball starting lineup in Tulsa, only to have coach Kline reply, "Nice try ... get an eraser!"; watching Lefty Smith's icers develop into an NCAA power; Bob Ick and Paul Hannan of the NO baseball team; Big Fin, Mike, and the whole gang at Sports Info; Dandy Randy, Mark, Solly, • and Moochie at the world-renowned South Dining Hall; Big Lonnie and All-Night Oldies; K.O., the Twins, Greg, and all the "Stars" at WSND; everyone at The Observer, plus the good times and good people I've met all over campus. 
The Boss always said, "With my superb coaching, Stanley, we'll make a sportswriter out of you yet." Thanks, Jim-I'll never forget it. 
the veteran sen-situation. Catcher Donovan ior southpaw was still weary frorr Jenkins, hitless in 22 at-bats on the his twelve inning stint against season, promptly responded with a Western Michigan at Cartier last line single down the left field line. Wednesday. Riddell and both Coleman then bobbled pitcherSaturday pithcers (Kevin Fanning Jack Kueck's infield chopper for and Mike Swallow) were disap­another marker and a 3-o Miami pointed by fielding miscues as ten lead. of those games' eleven runs were Schmitz made two more errors unearned. to put Gary Cooper at first leading 
With Schmidt's first career off the fifth. Dennis Smith and Art 
home run, a first inning shot that Grzeskowiak both followed with easily sailed over the left field singles to fill the sacks before AI fence, providing the necessary Mills laid down a squeeze bunt. lead, Riddell was coasting along on Fanning fired the ball into right a one-hitter before the Irish field for two more runs that capped collapsed in the 5th frame of the Redskins' scoring. opener. 
Kucek whiffed nine Irishmen inTaylor was at first with two men his six inningsof duty, and com­down when catcher Day rapped a bined with reliever Steve Retzschslow roller towards third. Pat to let ND runners no farther thanColeman couldn't find the handle second base.

and Day was safe at first. After Swallow, a winner in each of his designated hitter Larry Niedowicz last two starts, lowered his team­walked to load the bases, Bill leading ERA to 0.8I though he lost Turkington doubled to the fence in his first game of the year in theleft center for a 3-1 Titan edge. 
hightcap. Miami converted errorsWalks to Schmidt and Roemer, by Jim Smith and Schmidt into the sandwiches around Hensen's base go-ahead run in the third, thenhit, filled the sacks for the Irish an added an insurance score oneinning later with none out. Mark 

Schmitz bou~ed a frame later via a dropped fly ball, 
into fielder's stolen base, and infield hit.
choice to score one run, but when Wood was erased through a pop The Irish threatened to break it foul, winner Pete Kreher got open in their half of the third, Coleman to force Schmitz and end loading the bases on a pair of walks the rally. and Miller's bunt single, but 
Day belted a 1-2 Riddell offering winner Steve Imhoff got Wood on a for his third homer of the year to soft liner to Bianco to kill the rally. cap the UD scoring in the seventh, Notre Dame now begins a and Kreher breezed through a season:<:losing nine game, eight three-up, three-down final frame day series that could salvage a bit lock up his third triumph. of respectability for the 1973 Saturday's frustration was a edition of Jake Kline's squad. The little too much for any pitcher to­Irish are home to Cincinnati bear, especially with five Miami Tuesday afternoon for a doubleh­hurlers shackling Irish hitters to a eader, with game time at Cartier total of just six singles in the Field slated for 1 PM. The double defeat. remainder of the schedule reads: 
The Redskins broke up Fan­at Valparaiso Wednesday; at ning's no-hit game with three runs Bowling Green for a three-game in the third frame of the scheduled series Friday and Saturday; nine inning opener. Errors by Sch­honme to Butler for a Sunday mitz and Coleman coupled with a afternoon twinbill; and a single walk to shortstop Bob Banco, game finale with Valpo at Cartier setting up a bases-loaded two-out next Tuesday (3 PM). 

No. 1 teams 'crystallize' 
by Vic Dorr 
Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame football team entered its final week of spring practice on Saturday, and the Irish gridders, playing in their last filmed scrimmage before this week's Blue-Bold game, uncovered enough potentially good omens to carry them into September. 
They scrimmaged in brisk, sunny weather--the kind that always delights NO head coach Ara Parseghian. They got steady, poised performances from the number-one units on . offense and defense. They got good efforts from sophomore QB Tom Clements and a trio of roommate running backs. And, as a final omen, the first team defeated the second, 42-o. 
"We always go through a crystallization process in the spring," saidParseghian, "and the placement of personnel is always an important part of our spring program. I'd say we're starting to break it down now, but you can never rest on your laurels, and you have to retain your consistency." 
The Irish, prior to Saturday's workout, have had difficulties with their offensive consistency, but Tom Clements and the number-one offense shrugged off those dif­ficulties during the two-hour stadium session. The young sophomore, who did not play at all during the second half, completed five of nine passes (for 98 yards) during the initial 30 minutes, and led the first team into the end zone on three occasions. 
One of Clements' touchdowns came through the air--it was a 15­yard, fourth-down pass to tight end Dave Casper, and one 89-yard march died just shy of paydirt when Eric Penick was stopped short of a first dow.n on the seven­yard line of the number two defense. 
"Tom did a good job today," offered Parseghian. "He led the team well." But Clements, im­p_ressive as he was, was not the only offensive standout. Running backs Wayne Bullock 07 carries for 100 yards and two touchdowns), Art Best (20 for 89), and Eric Penick (20 carries for 150 yards and three touchdowns) also turned in sharp performances, as did receivers Dave Casper and Willie Townsend. 
Nor were the laurels all of­fensive. The first defensive squad allowed but 12 yards rushing during the afternoon's action and, in the 12. times they were on the field, the number-one "D" yielded but one first down to the efforts of Cliff Brown (who ran the second offense during the first half) and Frank Allocco. 
Defensive tackle Steve Niehaus saw regular action in NO's interior line, and lineman Mike Fanning, Kevin Noshbusch, and deep 
Tom Lopienski also plaudits for their defensive 
The rest of ND's practice will be spent in prepration Saturday's full-dress affair, because of that, the Irish make use of their regular nesday date for filmed !IU'rlm··• mages. 
The annual Blue-Gold game will kick off on Saturday at 1:30 p.m., and the proceeds from the game will go to the scholarship ,fund of the St. Joseph Valley Alumni Club. 

lnterhall note 
The office of lnterhall Athletics has scheduled the third and final game of its championship hockey series for Monday, April 30th, at 
10:30 p.m. at the ACC ice rink. 
The title game, which will pit the Dillon and Off-Campus sextets against each other, was origina11y scheduled for April nth, but was postponed due to a malfunction in the ACC's ice:<:ooling system. 
The final series is deadlocked at one game apiece. Dillon won the opener, 2-1 in overtime, 1and Off­Campus captured the return match HI, 










