On The Inside 
commissioner urges 
impeachment  ... p. 3  
CAP nominations  
... p. 7  

Vol. VIII, No. 36 
-~--------. 


serving the notre dame, -st. mary's community 
Tuesday, October 30, 1973 
SLC listens to status of blacks 
Black Student Affairs Director addresses meeting 
by Kurt Heinz Staff Reporter 
The status of Black Students on campus was the dominant concern of Monday's Student Life Council meeting. 
Cassell Lawson, director of Black Student Mfairs, addressed the meeting and then answered the council's questions along with students Ron Newkirk, Lionel Phillips, and Stan Harris. 
Lawson said that he was satisfied with Univer­sity's improvement in the area but suggested that more should be done. 
Noting that the University had adhered to the demand of hiring him, Lawson called for the hiring of more black rectors assistants. Last year there were two black RA's while this year there are three. 
Black house plans 
Lawson said that the demands for a black house 
somewhere off-campus are dormant due to the 
success of the Black Cultural Arts Center. The 
center is used by the UJAMMA Society, the New 
Frontier Society, and Black graduate students. 
Lawson claimed that the criticism that white students are intimidated by the Black Cultural Arts Center is not valid. He noted that at the last func­tion 25 whites were present out of a crowd of 75. 
Lawson also citicized the administration for not 
consulting black leaders before making ad­
ministrative appointments. 
.B. policeman hurt in game enthusiasm 
by Valerie Zurblis Staff Reporter 
The enthusiasm of last Satur­day's victory celebration resulted in the destruction of the goal post at the south end of the stadium and 
the  injury  of  a  South  Bend  
policeman.  
Sargeant  Bruce  Stickley  ap­ 

parently tried to stop the group of fans from tearing down the poles when he was hit over they eye with one of the poles. 
The unconscious policeman was then taken to the hospital by squad car, received five sutures and was released. He went blank on the incident and doesn't remember what exactly happened. The in­vestigation is still under way and as of yet there is no evidence that any other assault occurred. 
Robert Cahill, Business Manager of Athletics, says his main concern at the game was where he was going to get another goal post for this week's home game against Navy. Since it is too late in the season to order another pair of $1800 goal posts one from a practice field will be modified to comply with collegate rules. It will not be arched and therefore it won't match the other post but it will be workable. 
Cahill expected the students to try to pull the poles down but didn't expect them to be completely destroyed. "If they pull this one down, I won't know what to do," commented Cahill. 
The injury to Stickley was regretted most by Cahill. He was also concerned about the extra trampling the field received. Due to a bad fungus on the turf this year even the J.V. players have been forced to play on the artificial turf instead of the stadium. 
He felt that it was unfortunate for the coaching staff and football team that they have to play on a field that is not up to par. 
Dean of Students, Fr. Terence Lally, understands how the fans felt after the win but was worried that someone could possibly be trampled or seriously hurt. He w~s more apprehensive, though, w1th students, alumni, and staff who drink in excess at the games. He feels they are "unaccountable for their actions and are un­conscious to the other people around them." 
Fr. Lally commented that although the victory was a great one and he understands the exuberance of the fans, he wonders what they do with the goal post after they take it home.'' 
"The appointment of the Minority Affairs Commissioner seemed to be arbitrary," he said. "Though I do not disagree with the appointment, I feel that some of the black leaders should have been consulted. I would hope that the University would not follow this precedent." 
Long range goals 
Lawson said that his long range goal was to assure the academic excellence of black students. 
He revealed that there was a strong chance that a faculty member would donate $1,000 to help this goal. The money would be used to reward students who improved their grade point averages. 
Under the plan, Lawson said, groups of students in each dormitory would register with Lawson's office. Money would go to the group with the most improved average, as well as the student who most improved. 
Increased enrollment 
When asked in what areas the University could be doing more, Lawson replied that they could be doing more to increase black enrollment. "The national average is 5.6 per cent black students, while Notre Dame has less than 3 per cent. So, I think a lot more could be done here," he said. 
Newkirk, Phillips, and Harris generally con­curred with Lawson's remarks. They emphasized that spending money was a great problem among black students, noting that many students accepted on scholarship still can not afford to attend. 
Newkirk said that "most blacks need more money. We feel that we can handle the problems of grades and the social life, but money is the real problem." 

Blacks in student gov't. 
All three expressed the desire to elect qualified blacks to Student Government. The possibility of representatives of Lawson's office attending SLC meetings on a regualr basis was also discussed. 
In other business, the SLC discussed the rewriting of the Student Manual. Father David Shlaer, director of Student Mfairs said that the entire manual needed rewriting, not just the rules. It was decided that the new rules would be promulgated by the dean of students office. 
Student rights next topic 
The council will take up the question of rewriting 
the student rights section of the manual, at next 
Monday's meeting. 
Nominations for the University and Appeals 
Boards will also be voted on at the next meeting, 
which will be held in executive session. 
1 1 
1 
1 
l 
1 1 
I 
I 
I 



------------""""Prof.Hermens 
world 
briefs 
.. Washington UPI -The White House recommended Monday that the controversial issue of trade concessions for the Soviet Union be temporarily shelved while negotiations are under way to acheve peace in the Middle East. 
But Peter M. Flanigan, an assistant to the President for in­ternational economic affairs, said the basic position of the administration that commercial reactions with the Soviet Union should be broadened had not changed. 
Chieagp UPI-The federal gov~rnmen~, rebuffed in a ~ov~ to enter tape recordings of the first Chicago Seven tnal n~to evidence at a retrial of contempt charges, Monday staked Its case in the new prosecution on 27,000 pages of transcripts of the tumultuous 1969-70 trial. 
Prosecutors rested their case against the seven antiwar revolutionaries and their two original trial attorneys in the opening session of the new trial. The defendants, in opening statements, indicated they might use weeks in their defense against contempt charges. 
Quebec City UPI · Voters in predominately French-speaking Quebec province cast ballots Monday in an election that was billed as a major test of the spearatist movement in Canada's biggest province. . 
Turnout among the 3.7 million registered voters was heavy m the election to choose llO members of the provincial National Assembly from candidates of four parties. 
Detroit UPI -The chief governing board of the United Auto Workers Monday recommended that the union's 185,000 me~­bers at the Ford Motor Co. ratify a new three-year contract with the nation's second largest automaker. 
The unanimous approval of the 26 member International Executive Board had been expected. The agreement noow goes to the 200 member Ford Council which also is expected to ap­prove the agreement. 
an campus taday 
4:30p.m.-seminar, a strategy for agricultural research, dr. r. Ievins, U. of chicago 
7:00-Workshop, computer automation training, george j. hach, computer manufacturer, carroll hall 
7:00pm-discussion, great books, room 105, madeleva 
8:00 pm -lecture, stan vanderbeek, film producer and prof. of art at u. of tampa, sponsored by student union academic commission, washington hall 
Ill nd-..nc: 
Madrigal dinner set lor St. Mary,s at Christmas 
The fine arts departments of 
· Saint Mary's will present four Madrigal Christmas Dinner this year. The dinners will be held November 30, December I, 7, and 8, at 7:00p.m. in the lounge of Regina Hall, North. 
Each evening will resemble an English yule feast of the Renaiiance period. Dressed in gaily colored sixteenth century costumes, the Madrigal Singers will fill the air with traditional Christman song while the diners 
are  treated  to  a  delicious meal,  
highlighted by  a  special flaming  
plum pudding.  

An addition to this year's festivities will be the presentation of a short comic opera by the Saint Mary"'s Opera Workshop. 
ThE! public is invited to attend the Madrigal Christmas Dinners. Tickets for the meal and en­tertainment are $6.50 per person. Seating is by reservation only. For reservations, call the Office of Programming, 2284-4.176. 



suggests U.S. parliament 
by Pat Hanifin 
Staff Reporter 
Prof. I<,erdinand A. Hermens claimed in his lecturl! last night that Vietnam and Watergate are inherent in our system of govern­ment and that we should change to an English-model parliamentary system. 
"The President has acted in disregard of the people and reality," according to Hermans, which Congress has failed to take positive action 
"The executive must be more than an executor" Hermens said. "The law cannot cover all situations, especially in foreign affairs, and we need somebody who can take quick and decisive action. But at the same time this has raised the danger of irrational decisions by presidents who are cut off from the American people and from reality by their power." 
Hermens, a former government professor , claimed that this separation from reality was particularly apparent in the domestic . Watergate situation where inexperienced White House staff members failed to criticize decisions and acted in "a vacuum of free and independent discussion." Without this in ­dependent criticism, Hermens said, there is no "test of reality." 
It is here that Congresss becomes valuable in foreign policy making and according to Hermens view, Congress has three special roles: using its broad contacts with the people to develop a consensus; restraining the executive by in­dependent criticism; and taking constructive action as part of the foriegn policy team. 
"Unfortunately," Hermens pointed out, "Congress has been isolated from the decision making process, and when in the past they have taken action, it has generally been merely nagative opposition to the President. Because Congress is so large and varied they find it very difficult to reach agreement on positive action." 
Hermens, Fellow of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for 'Scholars at the Smithsonian Institute, offered as a possible solution to the problem the change to a parliamentary system as in England. "The advantages would be that the members of the cabinet would also be members of the legislature, powerful and in­dependent in their own right, and wojld represent all major views in the majority party. And if the prime minister goes his own way too much the legislature can throw the rascals out". 
However, Hermens pointed out there was far too much opposition on the part of the public for this to have any practical chance of coming to pass. "As a partial 1 solution we might retain the 
(continued on p. 7) 
The Observer is published dally during the college semester except vacations by the stuaents of the University of Notre Dame and Sl. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S8 per semester ($14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 
THE WOOD_R~DW WILSON SCHOOL ·oF PUBLIC AND IINTERNATIONAL AFFAIR 
Prince•ton University 
will interview men and women interested in graduate study leading to careers in: 
Government ServiceCriminal Justice Electoral Politics
International Relations Policy Research 
Environmental Policy Economic Development 
Urban Plan~i~g 
<Generou~s financlal'aid available)· at l,lacement Office on 4)ctober 31, 1973 
SKI THE FRENCH ALPS ! 
TIGNES, FRANCE JANUARY 3 ·JANUARY II, 1974 
$328 includes 
+ROUND TRIP AIRFARE VIA AIR FRANCE 747: NEW YORK-PARIS-GENEVA-PARIS-NEW YORK 
+BUS TRANSFERS: GENEVA-TIGNES-GENEVA 
+LODGING: LUXURY DOUBLE OCCUPANCY ROOMS WITH PRIVATE BATH-RIGHT ON MOUNTAIN AT TIGNES-6 NIGHTS 
+ALL AREA ALL LIFT PASS 
+GRAND FINALE.LAST NIGHT IN PARISI QUALITY ACCOMODATIONS INCLUDED 
+COMPLIMENTARY CONTINENTAL BREAKFASTS'AT THE LODGE. 
The Tignes-Val D'lsere Uti Is the luges! ski complex::: the world. Immense runs for beginning, lnlerm~late, and 
•dv•nced skiers. IMPORTANT MEETING TUESDAY NIGHT AT 8:00 1 
IN GRACE TOWER WELL. 
The trip is open to all ND-SMC students, faculty & families. Sponsored by Notre Dame Ski Club. Arrangement! by Edgerton Travel Service 1nd Air Fr1nce. $50 deposit due Sunday, November 4th. 
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CALL 6716. 

WE DID IT!! 
ND BEATS USC 
WIN 6 ON THE WAY TO AN UNDEFEATED SEASO BE THERE FOR No. 1 0 
NO vs. MIAMI 
SENIOR TRIP 
SUN, FUN PARTIES 
SIGN UP FOR THE SENIOR TRIP 
AT TRAVEL BUREAU (only $160) 

ACADEMIC COMMISSION 
presents 
A MULTI-MEDIA LECTURE FILM SCREENING 
with 

STAN VAN DER BEEK 

TONIGHT 
FREE 
Tues. 


4f I 11 •1 " t f ;.1 I I \t 0 t I -\' • 
continui·ng ·education.-cent.tr · · · ·-· · · · · 
Tuesday, October 30, 1973 
the observer 
3 

By FCC Comissioner Johnson 
Nine offenses alleged against Nixon 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -Fed­improve N1xon properties in action seems to me clear actors in this drama -is As an FCC commissioner, eral Communications Commis­Key Biscayne and San Clemen­beyond doubt -although I whether the House of Represen-Johnson is part of the executive sioner Nicholas Johnson Sunday te. expressly reserve judgment on tatives should send to the branch and in effect works for listed nine non-Watergate ac­He also listed "dirty tricks" whether the President should Senate for trial the allegations President Nixon. "As a Presi­tions which he said would employed on Nixon's behalf in be removed from office. against the President." dential appointee and currently justify impeachment of Presi­the 1972 campaign, efforts to "The only question," he said, "Prejudgments of guilt or active federal official, I recog­dent Nixon. interfere with the independence "that is now before the innocence should no more nize the -seriousness of this 
In a petition to the House of of the CIA and FBI, wrongful American people -and it is frighten us into motionless action," he said. "But I also legal procedures such as the they who are the ultimate inaction than should outrage recognize the seriousness of
Representatives, Johnson, a 
break-in of the office of Dr. propel us to judgment," John-continued silence, that not toDemocratic appointee said 
''members should not let the Daniel Ellsburg's psychiatrist, 
prospect of Nixon being found and invasion of privacy through Connallyaskso.n_s_ai_d___________de_c_id_e_i_s_to_d_ec-id_e_.·_·------... guilty by the Senate and illegal wiretapping and bribery removed from office to deter through the collection of cam­
You Can Buy
House members from impeach­paign funds. 
ing him. "It is not my judgment that· for 'better 
This And/Or This 
In his list of alleged the President should be convict­impeachable offenses, Johnson ed after a trial," said Johnson. 
explanation'
ited the authorization of an "The only issue before us nconstitutional war in Cam­
now is· whether the facts, odia; a systematic campaign charges and allegations I have AUSTIN, Tex. · (UPI)-For­gainst a free press, Nixon's summarily outlined here are mer Treasury Secretary John 
impounding of -funds for pro­sufficient cause for the House B. Connally said Sunday voted by Congress, and to send the matter to the President Nixon owes the e of government funds to Senate. That they require such country a better explanation 
than he gave for firing Watergate prosecutor Archibald
re-meds discuss careers 
Cox, and Nixon should have turned over the Watergate tapes months ago.
with panel of pros 
"I must say that the President owed the country a better explanation for his 
by Kit Baron Professional Student Advisory actions than we got," Connally Staff Reporter Committee has initiated an annual said on the weekly state press­program to introduce students to The National Lampoon Encyclopedia of November sports issue with Sports
panel television show "Capital 
Humor-all new material, lavishly illustrated /tfustrated parody. "The Day Babe Ruth Four medical professionals met all of the medical professions. Eye." in color, w1th free bonus poster·size Licked The Big 0," "Paper Plimpton," 
foldout Humor Map of The World. Hard "Secret Communist Referee 
students to discuss Speaking to the group last night "If indeed he was going to 
cover $7.95. Soft cover $2.50. Signals," and new specially sports careers yesterday night in were Mr. Montose, local hospital change his mind about the magazines. 75¢ everywhere.
At better bookstores and newsstands. 
Galvin Life-Science adiadministrator; Dr. Eugene tapes, I'm sorry that he didn't But you must do one. That's the new rule. You can do . Sponsored by the Pre­Kuzmic, DDS, periodontist; Dr. do it three months ago or four both. Doing both things would be good but you must 
Pr(J•fes:sional Department, the Pre-Melvin Nevel, DDS, mthodotist 
months ago. I think it would do one or the other. There's no getting around it. It's
and oral surgeon, and Dr. Harris, have saved him and saved the 
the new rule. It was on the news the other night, maybe 
DDS9 country an awful lot of trouble 
you missed it. But nonetheless, it's the new rule. And
Following last Wednesday and chaos and confusion in the 
you have to obey it.
evening's first program, the minds of some," Connally said. 

Mr. Montrose addresses pre-med students. <Photo by Brian Dowe) 
meeting was oriented for those interested in specializing in den­tistry, the second most popular career for N.D. pre-med students. With a total attendence of 170. students for the two sessions, the Advisory Committee estimates that at least one of every six pre­med students have shown interest. 
"The general success this year indicates that these programs will be sponsored annually," stated Committee Secretary Jim Napier. The cooperation of the people in the health professions in the community has helped bring them closer to Notre Dame." 
For their next activity, Rick Drelick is organizing a program which would give pre-dental students an opportunity to observe practicing orthodontics and periodontics. 

... 
... 
We're standing up to them in the fields­will you stand up to them in the stores? 
r~currin!.! nil.!htmare. To be stuck with
Boycotts arc a drag. You're tired of them, just as the farm workers 
a \H>rthicss ..crop is a fate cvcn worse 
arc tired of striking. But the workers will not be reduced to chattel 
than negotiating with a worker-l.:'nnlrol­again. Cesar Chavez asks comumers to unite as llL'Ver before. leU union. 
Nothing less will cause the growers to grant workers the simple NlHhinc Jess than a massive consumer boycott l~f grapes and. iceberg lettuce
right to vote, by secret ballot, on which uni1m will represent them: 
will cause the l!flJWL'rS to nxo~nizc a
the UFW or the Teamsters. 

unit>n that repr~scnts the workc...rs. Stl herc·s \'.h;Jt you can Jtl to supjX)rtThree years ago a massive consumer l!nl\l,:cr..; fur SL'crct-hallot L'kLtions. The the fanm\·orlL·r:-. in their nlm-violcnt boycott dragged grow~rs ~icking and (mall\ nf "hom arrive nm knowin!.! 
resi~tance lll thl' Gwwcr-TL'amstcr con­screaming intn tht.: ~Oth C\·ntury. j\;tn\, they ~Ire ... trikc-hrl'a~crs ;\llJ \'.ht) ar~ stntium: I. Bll~Ctltl all table grapes. ~.
when UFW's harLl-won cnntracb an: up Ll)L'fLCJ tn kCL'P wnrking hy the TL·am­( \lntrihutc llll)llcy {t) help f~cJ thcfor r~nt.:wal alon~ cnm~ TL·anhkr hon­:-.tl'r:-.· inL·kgant p~rsua~il>n...,~). The hitter \\nrkers \\ho will miss the few f1ll)nthschos who. without a worJ to the fruit of thi:-. lahnr is now arriving at nf \\or~ whl'n they can earn wage-;. Theworkers, :-.ign a r~ady-mad~ Ctlntract '>hlf'L'S in )OUr neighhorhmHJ If th~se mnnl'y you ~cnJ ''ill he used for ba')ics:with. the crowers. That Teamster l'tlll­grap\..·s :-.dl, other grnwers \\ill be kmpt­fond. clolhing. mcJicine. 3. Contmue to tract rcin~titutcs th~ notoriuus Lahor cd to follow the kau of thci r Cnachdla hnycotl icl'hcrg lL'ttuce, Safeway andContractor hiring \)Stem, n.:dw..:c"' the anJ Ddan~' p~~r:-. and in\ilc th\: l~am­
A. & p Slllfi.:'S.
workers' alrcaJy minimal pay. imposes :-.tn:-. hl ··organize" the lidJs on their no r~strict1un..., on the usc of man-killing tnm..., i.c .. a lower hnurlv \Va!.!l.': no rc­
r-----------------l 
pc\ticidcs and lcavcs th~ \\nrkcrs \~v·ith­:-.triction on th~ use t~f ~l~nJL'rnnL'J out any clkcti\c mctlical b~ndlts. Then.: :-.pra)~. int.:luJing ncrvc ga:-.; rcinstitu­: Y'TAKE A STAND : arc other eruct inaJcqu<u:ic-; 111 the tilln of thL.· ~lave-lahllf contri.IL'lt)f S!..,_ I I Teamsters' swccthcart ClHltract. hut that tl'lll, anJ a m~dical plan that flL·atly I I t:lh:ll'"'e S h> hdp tht: I 
li:amstcrs arc now importing :-.cah laht)l L'xcluJc..., -;ca:-.llll<il wnrkl'r:-.! I l.trm WtHh.L·r......unnc thl.! (tlming I should be cnou~h to makc vou lt)se \lHir I'll :-.trike i.., hl gu hun~ry. and flll' : \~t:d,:-. tlf nhlnth.., '' llhl'Ut .1 \\t1rk1ng : l \\age.
ta\te for grapes~ · · man! \Hlr~L·rs it llll'an:-. gning ttl jail. 1 I l I \\llllld !JJ..c ltl hl·lp \\tth the hllY-
So how come thi.'\C union-hi.Iting But :-.trih· WL' \\ill. c\·cn klllming thi:-. 
1 -.._'tl\t llf gr.Jpc.... i.:ch~·rg ll:ttu(e. s,,fc. 
~rowers wckomc Teamster atlvanccs llla) not prc\·~nt the harVL':-.t. 
I W.l~ and :\. L'i.:. P PIL•a..,c ..,L·nJ me
;ath~r than negotiate ,~.,·ith a wnrkcr­You arc our la:-.t line l)f ddcn:-.c. Y(lU 
I nwn: infllr11t.ttiLH1.
controlkU union? Growers. nllt sur­arl' tllL' one critical cll'lllL'Ilt the TL·am­I prisingly, prefer to deal with boss~s who :-.ters em not controL If you arc :-.ickcncU l Y11t K :...;\\11 have nothin!.! in common with the men hy tl.1is attL·mpt to rl'turn f;1rm \\orkns 
I

I :\nmu ::-.s anti \-.·omen ...wlw spend their lives bent tn thl' :-.tat us of cattk. thL·n the workers' 
l C11' 
over in the ticltls. cau~c is not yd lost. I The farm workers an.: seckin!.! rcJrcss The Gnmas unJL·r~tanJ sail's. The 1 \l.d,~ Chcd., P.l}ahll' to .. L!mtcd F;1nn1 Wnrh•r, l ~nion".
via the courts anc.l by pctitio~ing the memt\r) \)f the \a:-.t grcat hnycott is their 
! ~!.LIItn: l'nrtl•d F.mn \\\JrJ..cr... Union I .JIIJI ~.lrd S!rct•t I "THE WHEELS OF JUSTICE DO NOT MOVE AS I S.tn hanl·j,l'tl ~-t \14 'I ' 
I · 
1 C.lll I-H51 t\h-f·5td3 fur fttrthcr ~nfo .. I . , 
. , , , ,

LFAST AS ,NAT\J~~;?:,R,~W~' GRAPES'' -CcsarC'havcz L___________:__;_..:,__,;.J igl 
. ~~ 
\-. 
~ ___...:.. 
• f 

0 ---------·· ..... ' ~ •• 

Universal Artists proudly presents in South 'send 
An Evening With 



TODD RUNDGREN 
SUNDAY, NOV. 11th 8pm 
MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 
211 North Michigan Avenue Downtown South Bend, Indiana 
TICKETS ARE NOW ON SALE: MORRIS CIVIC BOX OFFICE, 1l-S da'ily and at BOOGIE RECORDS. $4.00 (ad­vance(, $4.50 {day of concert) 
Tuesday, October 30, 1973 



THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Art Ferranti Executive Editor 
Lee Gentine Business Manager 

Jerry Lutkus Editor-in-Chief  Dan Barrett Executive Editor  
NEWS:  283-1715  
EDITORIALS:  283-8661  John Kloos  
BUSINESS:  2tll-7471  Advertising Manager  

Tuesday, October 30, 1973 


Give A Ticket 
The Neighborhood Study Help Tutoring Program is once again asking the Notre Dame student body todonate their tickets to the Navy game this Saturday and the student body should answer that call. 
For the past three years, the program has met with amazing success habeing been endorsed by both Fr. Hesburgh and Ara. Upwards of two hundred South Bend kids have benefited from this program each year in the past. And now the program needs the help of us all again. 
Thetimeis appropriate. Fresh from the exuberance of the ND over USC triumph, the team is -going to match plays with Navy. Let's face it, barring unforeseen accidents and bad breaks, we should beat Navy without too much trouble. The game will nonetheless be exciting as always but to give up your ticket for such a worthy cause this time will not work all that great a hardship on you. WNDU will televise the game anyway. These kids will most likely be getting their first chance to see a college football game. Moreove1r, it is a Notre Dame game which wm mean a great deal more to these kids not only now but in retrospect in years to come. 
As for future home games, there will be Air Force on Thanksgiving Day and, most likely, a bowl game in our im­mediate future, somissingthis one Navy game at home, while a sacrifice since we must keep rolling on, in the long run will not hurt either you or the team. Giving up the tickets will mean a lot to the team and having a stand full of kids cheer for the Irish can only spur the team to even greater lheights of glory. 
But more important than these pragmatic reasons is that you should donate your ticket not only as a sacrifice, but also because it is a Christian act of giving something needed to one who needs. 
Art Ferranti 

Sorry, Psych-ers 
Charges in yesterday's Observer that Friday's rally was a poor one stand today. However, the charges that a lack of foresight plagued the rally were perhaps a bit injudicious. 
Rally organizer Dan Doody accepted the full blame yesterday for the poor rally but admitted that many of the problems were things beyond his control. 
For example, Stepan Center had been contracted last May for the rally and three weeks prior to the rally, the event was kicked out to make room for the Homecoming dance. Use of the Fieldhouse and the ACC could not be obtained so Doody was forced to find a well-lighted areaand the Stepan lot was the best available area. 
A proper stage could not be built because thematerialshad been destroyed when the storage barn on campus burned 
daanesbury 

down in September. The area for the band was roped off, but Doody said they missed the entrance prepared for them and in attempting to get in from the other side of the stage, a great many students had to be pushed out of the way. In that excitement, the two speakers that were to be used were pushed over and one of them was knocked out of commission. 
Doody claimed that it was a minor miracle that the rally came off and no one was hurt in a crowd that was clearly out of contr<J•l. · 
He's right on the point and The Ob­server must admit that we jumped the gun on Doody's group. Een though it was a bad rally, the circumstances surrounding it make it now impossible to pin any blame. 
Jerry Lutkus 
Last Paint Impeachment on Suspicion 
j.napier 

"Impeach Nixon," the cry rises. "Yes, impeach him." Why? "Because we suspect he is guilty of stealing money to build two 
palaces, we think he offered ITT a plum in exchange for San Diego; and we think he danced in the cacophanous ethics of Robert Vesco. Yes, because we think he did all this, he must be impeached. No need for further investigation. We suspect him now; impeach him now." 
And so history may now record the first President ever impeached on suspicion. 
This suspicion is a verypotent tool. Many peoples have used it to eradicate the worst elements in their societies. Suspicion enabled the Puritans to eradicate witches. Ancient societies employed suspicion to stone devils out of people, while the inquisition utilized it as a weapon against heretics. Fortunately, suspicion excised this villainy from each of these societies before it was too late. 
Let it be with America, too. Let Richard Nixon and the witches stand together on the same scaffold. 
I:.ocal Lynching 
"Nixon is above the law," claim the impeachers. 
But where does their suspicion end and their direct proof begin? One would hardly state such drastic condemnations on mere suspicion. Indeed, respectable journalism and formal critics often pride themselves on being above suspicion and conjecture. For them, judgment begins where rumor ends and guilt can be proven. 
Perhaps local, respectable journalism is privy to information inaccessible to the remainder of the world. Local journalism may have found a cache of Perry Mason evidence buried in the laws of logic. If the world also follows the rules of the syllogism, maybe they too will become as enlightened as the local seers. Try it world: 
Premise: Richard Nixon is a crook. (Impeachers say they've always known this.) 
Premise: Some crooked acts have taken place while Nixon was in office. 
Conclusion: Nixon must be in on it. 
Clearly, numerous "If's" permeate this "Syllogism" (pardon me, Greeks). When these ifs are viewed by people who have never claimed a close afinity to Richard Nixon, they may encounter a propensity to jump from the springboard of suspicion into the empty pool of un­justified conclusions. 
The Cox Issue 

Was Cox's firing an impeachable· offense? From a strictly legal point of view, Cox is an employee of the executive branch. Does the head of the executive branch of the United Stateshave a legal right to terminate the employment of an executive branch employee? No one denies Richard Nixon possesses this legal privilege. 
However, if Nixon does have this right and if he does exercise this right, can he be impeached for what he was legally entitled to do? Although the impeachers amazingly still cry, "Yes", the absurdity of their position is obvious. The impeachers simply do not realize im­peachment is not a question of whether one agrees with the firing of Cox, but whether or not the President may be impeached for actions well within his legal rights. 
Keep Away From Salem 
If the House of Representatives does intend to continue with im­peachemnt proceedings with only the suspicion of the present, it must revert to a definition of impeachment last used when Justice William 
0. Douglas was threatened with impeachment. As one House leader said, "An impeachable offense is anything the House thinks is an impeachable offense," The danger in this attitude is clear. 
Unless the impeachment movement rises above the primitive "Gut", suspicion level of the present, the movement will continue to wallow somewhere in between a political vendetta reminiscent of An­
drew Johnson's days and the suspicion of Salem. Our republic needs neither. 


the observer 

Night Editor: Robert Baker 
Ass't. Night Editor: Tim O·Reiley 
Layout: Marlene Zloza, Kathy Schwille 
Day Editors: Tom Bundy and Marlene Zloza 
Compugraphic: Michael Goetz 
Typists: Connie Fourre, Howard Halle, Barb 
Norcross, Phil Orscheln 
Sports: Greg Corgan and Peggy Lawlor 
Copy Editor: Marlene Zloza 
Pictures: Jerome 
Night Controller: John Flannigan 
Special Thanks to Jim Purvis 

Kissinger's Prize 
Editor: 
Mr. Barrett's editorial on Kissinger and Tho misses the whole point of the Nobel Peace Prize. The record of award win­ners would seem to indicate that the Prize is awarded more for honest effort to achieve peace and a stable world order than for the achievement of peace itself. So it was, for example , with Willy Brandt. By no stretch of the imagination could it be said that he achieved detente in Europe or that he even achieved detente between the two Germanys. He did change the direction of West German foreign poicy by committing the 
Federal Republic to an ac­ceptance of the status quo in Europe and to the renunciation of violence and force in redressing whatever wrongs may have been inflicted on Germany as a result of World War II. We do not know whether Brandt's policy in the long run will achieve peace in Europe. Dissident men of letters in the Soviet Union have warned us that detente may actually lead to greater tyranny than now exists in the world. Be that as it may, Brandt won the Nobel Prize, and justifiably so, because of his honest effort to acheive detente and thus to pierce, however slightly, the barriers that separate men from each other in today's world. Some men have been awarded the Nobel Peach Prize because of their dreams of peace. Witness Martin Luther King. Why then should we reproach Kissinger for accepting the peace Prize. We forget that peace comes in many shadings. Though the guns in Vietnam are not silent, the level of violence has been reduced immesaurably, and largely because of the patience , good will, and craftsmanship of Tho and Kissinger. This is no mean accomplishment and one fully deserving, in my view, of the Nobel Peace Prize. 
Donald P. Kommers Associate Professor 
Mockery of Prayer 

Editor: I was shocked to encounter this noon. over the execrable coffee of the North Dining Hall, the little blurb hiding at the bottom of th~ second last page of today's <Oc­tober 25th) Observer entitled "Stanford Prays for Irish Vic­tory." I thought that the idea of 
purchasing favors from the almighty, banished once from the Church in her shame over the simonistic practices of John Tetzel and others in the Middle Ages, and banished again to a lesser degree by Vatican II, was a thankfully dead practice. 
But the consciousness of Western consumism, coupled with a misguided thirst for victory, manages once again to raise this unpretty Lazarus from the dead. The next step, I guess, is to equip the football players with shields and paint small crosses on their helmets. 
For there exists a subtle dif­ference between praying for the ability to live up to one's potential; for the ability to r <!main gracious win or lose, and praying for God to use his influence to direct events in one's favor. Upon reflection, the latter type of prayer defeats the purpose of the competition: to show the excellence which man can achieve through hard work and determination. What good are our achievements if they are handed to us by God on a silver platter? If "Notre Dame will win over all" is fulfilled merely due to divine intervention, the pride we take in the achievements of our community is made a mockery. 
Sincerely, 
J. Timothy Walsh 
The Need for Mary 

Editor, Notre Dame -23 So. Cal. -14 
I for one do NOT necessarily believe that there may be even the slightest connection between the above score and the Stanford Hall rosary of which you wrote on Thursday the 25th: 
"Jim Hoolihan commented that 'Stanford is sponsoring the rosary to re-establish the old Notre Dame tradition of putting God on our side." 
However, for those among our Notre Dame Students, who through human respect, (which stems from accepting very questionable theology, or doctrines which violate what they learned at home) have not the intestinal stamina they need as good Catholics from a genuinely good Catholic family to continue their true and inspiring traditions of their homelife here at Notre Dame, Jim Hoolihan's words are Providentially a clarion call to ALL Catholic students (not only the football squad) to get back to center. 
Where were all of you this month when 20 to 50 of us daily at 7 p.m. gathered at the Grotto to pray the rosary. Two nights we had the leader'of the great Family Rosary Crusade himself-Father Pat Peyton, a Holy Cross priest. 
This, boys, is only a reminder of something that Notre Dame has to give that does not ask more money of you but grants benefits far beyond anything money can buy. Perhaps you might start an evening rosary in your hall chapels, and when May-the Month of Our Lady comes around, we'll all gather around the replica of Lourdes -l,OOO'sof us -to praise in prayer and song the true Notre Dame (French for Our Lady) whose statue tops the golden dome and in whose name this the greatest Catholic University in the USA was brought to life, and will continue as Catholic and the greatest ONLY if you do your part.. .be faithful to your background 100 percent. 
Wishfully and prayerfully yours, Rev. W.A. Monaghan, C.S.C. 
Harrassed 
Male 

Dear Editor: 
In reply to a sick letter written by a member of the not-so-silent minority female sex on campus in Tuesday's, October 16th issue of the Observer , I must say -Grow Up, Laureen Goers! Your high school publication immaturity is out of line here. Mike Welby wrote a very good article about the ratio of men (some of us) and girls at Notre Dame, (Observer, Thur­sday, October lith . ) I saw no implication that he was, "dumped by a Notre Dame student". If he was, and assuming it was a girl, I'm sure he realizes that no better fortune could have fallen upon him. After all, general consensus has it that dating SMC or ND girls can be hazardous to one's health. 
The implication of a loser being a guy who succeeds in obtaining a date with an ND or SMC girl is a journalistic masterpiece because of its truth in may cases. The statement about "wallflowers" is basic fact! How many of us have ever gone to a party where wallflowers were not present? Very few, Miss Goers refers to Welby's passage about wallflowers as "worthless trash." I must 
Tuesday, October 30, 1973 the observer 
5 

wonder whether she feels a sense I hope that your letters in theof guilt for herself and some others future will have justifiableof her sex. 
meaning, rather than being justI am not trying to harass anyone worthless trash. 
in this letter. I am merely trying to help an innocent male, a victim of Sincerely also, unjust female harassment. Be Tom Ross 435 realistic, Laureen! Open your eyes Keenan and see exactly what the situation is on this campus. 
Acareer in law­WithOUt laW SChOOl. 
What can you do with only a bachelor's degree? 
Now there is a way to bridge the gap between an undergraduate education and a challenging, respon­sible career. The Lawyer's Assistant is able to do work traditionally done by lawyers. 
Three months of intensive training can give you the skills-the courses are taught by lawyers. You choose one of the six courses offered-choose the city in which you want to work. 
Since 1970, The Institute for Paralegal Training has placed more than 500 graduates in law firms, banks, and corporations in over 40 cities. 
If you are a student of high academic standing and are interested in a career as a Lawyer's Assistant, we'd like to meet you. 
Contact your placement office for an interview with our representative. 
We will visit your campus on 
TUESDAY,NOVEMBER13 
The Institute for Paralegal Training 
235 South 17th Street. Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103 (215) 732-6600 
Indiana T. Reg. #AC0035 
YOU CAN'T MISS THIS ONE! ! 
seniors unite for your last pregame blast 
Fri. Nov. 2 12:00 p.m. 


DEATH MARCH 
THE BARGAINS WILL BE THERE FOR THE CLASS OF 74. JUST BRING YOUR LEGS AND THIRST TO THE CIRCLE AT HIGH NOON FRIDAY!! 
J 
i 
I 
•l 
j 
4 4 
Observer Staff meeting tonight 
7 P.M. 
Reporters, day editors, copy editors, new reporters. Special organizational meeting. Please attend 

the observer Tuesday, October 30, 1973 

Campus briefs••• 
Hesburgh guests at Bulla Shed 
Fr. Theodore Hesburgh will be the first guest at the new Bulla Shed bi-monthly luncheon beginning this Wednesday, Oc­tober 31, at 12:00 noon. All members of the ND-SMC com­munity are invited to join the guest of the day for an informal luncheon and talk session. 
"There are many good people on this campus who most of us only hear about, or see from afar," said Fr. Tom Stella, director of Bulla Shed. "I think it is a real service to the community to offer an op­portunity for closer contact, and an exchange of ideas," he added. 
Farley Hall sophomore Chris Gallagher and freshman Kevin McCormick are the student organizers of the luncheon program. Submarine sandwiches, soup, and potato chips are on the menu for these twice monthly Wednesday gatherings. 
su sponsors 

VanDerBeek talk 
The Student Union Academic Commission will sponsor a lecture by Stan VanDerBeek at the Center for Continuing Education tonight at 8:00p.m. 
VanDerBeek is well-known in the areas of art and film production. He has garnered widespread recognition as a filmmaker, winning prizes at such places as "Man and His World" Expo '67 Montreal, Canada; The Oberhausen Film festival, the Mannheim Film Festival, Bergano Film Festival and others. 
One of VanDerBeek's projects included the construction of the "Movie-Drome" in Stony Point, 
N.Y. and audio-v1.;ual laboratory for simultaneous projection of film, dance, magic theatre, sound and other visual effects. He has also been successful at computer­graphics, animation and a telephone mural. 
VanDerBeek has also taught at various universities and had numerous Film Artist-in­Residency projects at colleges and 
miversities. Tonight's lecture is free of charge. 

3 new officials 

r 

appointedat SMC 
Two new admissions counselors 
and a housing coordinator have been appointed at Saint Mary's College. 
Joan Ellen Organ and Mary Anne Madden, the new admissions counselors, will be responsible for the recruitment of qualified students for admisson to Saint Mary's College. This involves extensive traveling and high school visitation, as well as coordinating activities between alumnae and perspective students. 
Organ was graduated summa

I ­
cum laude from Saint Mary'sI College in 1973 with a bachelor'sI degree in English and secondary
I 
I 
education. Originally from Youngstown, Ohio, she presently 
resides in South Bend, !diana.

I Madden attended Saint Mary's 
~ and was graduated from the 
~ University of Notre. Dame in 1973 with a bachelor's degree in modernI languages.• , .. A .native of West 
., ' , r: ... l r > , •. 
-\ l •t I ~ 1 I "; I I 'I .., I 1. • 
Bloomfield, Michigan, Madden also lives in South Bend. 
Karen O'Neil has been named housing coordinator for the College. She will report to Dr. Mary Alice Cannon, vice president for student affairs. 
In her new position, O'Neil will be responsible for the residence hall program, including 

room assignments, supervision of housekeeping and maintenance, budget preparation, communications, policies and procedures, and future planning. 
A graduate of Jaohn Adams High School, South Bend, and a 1971 graduate of Saint Mary's Collge, O'Neil holds a bachelor's degree in philosophy. Prior to accepting her current position, she was em­ployed as an assistant teacher a~ the Little Flower Montessori School, South Bend. She and her husband, Paul, reside in .«out.h Bend. 
New art exhibit spans 5 centuries 


Jack '0 Lantern contest set 

Notre Dame Student Govern­ment, with the approval of the Ministry of Propaganda, will stage its second annual Jack 0' Lantern contest in the bookstore parking lot behind Badin Hall on Oct. 31, at 
11:00 p.m. Prizes-will include a copy of the March 1968 Harvard Law Review, 
a pamphlet on How to Win Campus Elections (used), an old Notre Dame student directory, a Do It 
Yourself Coffee House plan, two copies of the Notre Dame Judicial Code, ND traffic and parking regulations, a 1970 United (fly United) air lines schedule, three turtle doves and a partridge in a pear tree. 
All Jack '0 Lanterns are eligible irregardless of size, shape, or type of pumpkin used. Jack '0 Lanterns should be lighted. There will be no registration fee. All judging will take place in the bookstore parking lot. In the even of inclement weather the contest will be moved to the covered area between Gilbert's and the bookstore. 
Portraits from the permanent Computer class 
collection of the University of 
Notre Dame Art Gallery are beingfeatured in a new exhibition which opened last Sunday. Works exhibited will include portraits from the 15th to the 20th century, from Polluiuolo to Picasso. 
Gallery officials have assembled several paintings showing the dramatic change in portraiture form the Renaissance profile view of Bartolomeo Veneto's "Portrait of a Young Lady" to the Baroque convention of three-quarter and frontal views. 
Interesting insights on the live of Jacques Villon, Kathe Lollowitz and Max Beckmann may be ob­tained from viewing self portraits displayed in the exhibit. 
Other excellent examples of former years will include Jan Anthonisz van Ravesteyn's "Portrait of a Nobleman of the Van Does Schiedam Family" and Jean Marc Nattier's portraits of the French bourgeoisie,w which reveal the insecurity of a society uneasy with themselves . Also exhibited will be Thomas .Eakins portrait of Reverend McDevitt. 
Also on display will be portraits of Mary the Second, Queen of England, Beatrice d'Este, Marie Antoinette's brother, and others. The gallery in O'Shaugnessy Hall is open daily from 10 to 5 and weekends form 1 to 5. 


StartS fOnight 

George J. Hach, local representative of Honeywell, Inc., a leading computer manufacturer, will present a new educational program being co-sponsored by Honeywell and Saint Mary's on Tuesday, October 30, at 7:00p.m. in Carroll Hall. 
Titled "Computer Automation Training Workshop," this program will offer vacational training that will supplement the academic program to prepare the student with computer use in his or her chosen profession. 
Tuesday's introductory session will explain the purposes and goals of the workshop, which will take place after normal class hours. No tuition will be charged and no college credit will be given. 
Pre­requisites for the program are: 
I. The students must be registered at eight Saint Mary's College or the University of Notre Dame. 
2. 
They must be in or have com­pleted at least one computer course, in high school or college. 

3. 
They must have and maintain a B average. 

4. 
They must have their advisor's permission. 


For additional information, contact Mr. Hach at the Saint Mary's Computer Center located 

TICKET EXCHANGE· NO-NAVY 
Turn in tickets today, Wed., C)r Thurs. Second floor ticket window ACC from ~~ a.m. · 4 p.m. 
SMC girls may turn in tickets during dinner hour at ~)MC Dining Hall. 
MONITORS NEEDED-Meeting tonight 7:00 Second Floor LaFortune for aU who are willing to watch children at the game. 
('. 

in the basement of LeMans Hall. 
United Way Day coming to SMC 
Wednesday, October 31, will be 
United Way Dy at Saint Mary's. 
From ll:30 until 1:15 pm, a 
faculty'staff picnic will be held on 
campus. (in the snack shop if the 
weather is inclement). SAGA, the 
College's food service, will donate 
the food for the lunch. 
Beginning at 4:30 p.m., and continuing until 6:15p.m., Student Government will sponsor an auction in the dining hall. Many of the items have been donated by local merchants, students and college faculty and staff. 
A Halloween dance is scheduled at 8:00p.m. for St. Mary's and Notre Dame students at the dining hall. 
Proceeds from food sales, the auction, and the dance will all be donated to the United Way cam­paign. 

WORK OVERSEAS 
All trades, skills and professions I Students and Graduates F
M ae emae1 Higher pay, no taxes, travel to Australia, Europe, So. and Central America, Africa and So. East Asia. Write for our brochure: 
Worldwide Student Opportunities P.O. Box 1255 1075 Camino Flores Thousand Oaks, Calif. 91360 
SMC Student Govt. is sponsoring an 

AUCTION 
for United Way 
Wednesday Oct. 3 J 
SMC Dining Hall -during dinner Bring your money for a variety of items 
"Tales from the Crypt" 
Washington Hall Oct. 31 
7:30 and 9:30 Free! 

•..the off campus oHice is now selling 
Playboy Rolling Stone National Lampoon Psychology Today Cosmopolitan MS. 
AT COST 
Lower Level La Fortune, hours: Mon, Wed, Fri -3 to 4 Tues. and Thurs. -11 to 12 
(Hours, will be expanding soon) 
t r, 
1 
'----~~--------------------------------------~~~· . 
' 
• I •' • 

,.' 
Tuesday, October 30, 1973 
the observer 

CAP nominations due by end of this week 

by Janet Denefe 

Staff Reporter The primary function of the 
Commitee i!! an advisory one. 
Arts and Letters students who Thirty or forty professors in the are thinking about applying to the closely with the students and help Committee on Academic Progress them "arrange a specific should have their nominations in curriculum in terms of the by the end of this week, according capacities and interests" of each. to Director of C.A.P., Dr. Thomas The Committee also works with Werge. experimental courses; one such 

Reforins proposed 
(continued from p. 2) Presidency but have some of the Cabinet members selected from Congress who would retain their Congressional seats. Another possibility is to introduce the parliamentary system on the state level first where the risks are fewer," he said 
In conclusion Hermens pointed out that some good could come of 
Hermens criticizes gov't. (Photo by Brian Dowe) 
Senate agrees 
to Ford hearings 
Washington UPI -The Senate Rules Committee agreed Monday to open public hearings into the nomination of Gerald R. ford as vice president Thursday. 
Chairman Howard Cannon, D­Nev., said he hoped the ap­pointment would reach the Senate floor "well before Thanksgiving." 

Truck thief given 
probation term 
A probationary term until the age of 21 was ordered for a University of Notre Dame student who pleaded guilty Thursday in Superior Court to a charge of "unauthorized control of a motor vehicle." 
He was arrested by police near his dormitory after police in­vestigated the theft of a pick up truck belonging to Dennis Bailey from Howard street and Notre Dame Avenue on September 12. 
ND co-ed reports Saturday assault 
An 18 year old University of Notre Dame co~d reported she was raped 1:30 a.m. Saturday in the vicinity of the 800 block of Notre Dame Avenue after at­tending a party nearby. 
The girl told police she had met a man at the party and the man asked her to go outside. She siad she went with him and he raped her, .T'.YO friends drove her to St. Joe Hospital for treatment. 
the Vietnam and Watergate crises. 
"They give us the spur to reassess our government as we approach our bicentenial, and to decide again as the men who wrote the Declaration of Independence did, if it still provides sufficient 'safeguards for our future security.' " 
course being offered currently is "Shakespeare and Depth Psychology." 
C.A.P. consists of approximately 125 AL undergraduates who feel Coliege of Arts and Letters work that they need extra guidance in planning a course of studies. The Committee would like to dispel the image that they are "student elite" who have unlimited access to all the "good,' courses. Only a small percentage of pre-registration class cards are reserved for C.A.P. students and this applies only to courses which are extremely difficult to get into and have special intellectual merit. 
Applications are being accepted, generally speaking, from sophomores, transfers, and returning students. Students are often nominated by their professors, but it is possible to 
The Observ~r needs typists 
for 10pm-1am shifts sun., tues., wed., and thurs. must type at least 50 wpm. Call Howard at 1175 


PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Main Building 
INTERVIEWS FOR \fEEK OF N< •VEMRER 
Intervir.ws are for seniors and graduate students. Sign-up schedules arc in Room 207, Main Building, except Law Schools which are in O'Shaughnr>ssy Hall. Interview times must be selected and signed for in p(•rson. Hours are 8:00a.m. to 
5:00 p.m., Monday thru Frid<ty. Tlw Placement Manual gives additional information re~arcting intf~rviews a 11 d procedures. 
NOV. 5 Action/Peace Corps/Vista. All der,recs and disciplines. Amoco Oil Company ."lnd Amoco Chemicals Corp. 
M,n in Ch.E. 

Chicago, tJniv. of-Grad. Schoo) of BusinPsS. All degrees and majors. LPeds & Northru~ B in E.E. and M.E. 
Naval Weapons Laboratory. 
Bin Phys. B,M in M.E. and E.F.. Santa Fe Railroad. Bin Acct., Fin, Mkt., M.F.., E.E. and C.E .. MBA with Acct., Fin. and Hkt. backr.rounds. Procter & Gambl_t' r~·--. Managr>mPnt Systems. All BBA and MilA. 
U. S. Government -all Agc>ncies· not Listed in 
Placement ~lanunl. B in Lib. Arts and nus. Ad. 
NOV. 6 Rastman Kodak Co. R,M i.n Chl'm., Ch.F.., E.E., M.~~. and Phys. Procter & Gambl<' Co. -Sales Managf>ment. B,M in Lib. Art.s and Bus. Ad. Procter & GamblP Co. -ResP:uch and Of"vr~lorment. B,'! in Ch.E. and Chrm. t-1RA with undergraduate degree in Ch.E. or Chl'm. ~lnufft•r Clwmicnl Co. 
B in Ch. E. :1nd Ch('m. Virginia, llniv .• of-Grad. School or Hus. Ad. 
B."J.ch('lor dc>r,re{' in nny di~cipliru·. Wh i r1 pool Corp. Bin Fin. nnd Acct. B,M in C:omp.Sci. MBA with 
Fin. nnd Acct. bnrkr,round. B,M,Il in H.E. M,O in E.E., Ch.l·:., H.E.T.o.~ C.E. n:ul c\t,·m. 
NOV. 6/7 Dow Chc·mical Co. 

B,M in Ch.E. and Clwm. Procter & Gamhle Co. -Plant Mnna~ B,M in Ch.E., M.E., E.F., N.E.r.o. and C.E. 
MBA with TPch. undt•r)' radua t ,. deg r<"('. 
NOV. 7 FedE>ral Highway Administration. B,M in C.E. 
IBM Corpor;Jtion. B,H in Lih. Arts, Bus. Ac\., Engr. Villanova Law ~chool 
Wharton Graduate> fJivision-Untv. or All intPrt•stc>d stlld(•nts. 
NOV.7/8 Electronic nata Svst,•ms Corp. 
and ·lei.. Pf'nna. 

HBA with TPch. nne! Non-TI'ch. hnckr,roun:ls. 
NOV. A Columbitl Univ,.rsity-Grarl. School of Bus. All int,•r('stC'd stud('nts with minimum RaclH•lor Naval Ordnanc;r Laboratory. B in Ch.E. and Phys. R,M in E.E., M.E., ,"J.nd 
NOV .8/Y Coopers & !·1hrand. BBA in Acct. MBA with Acct. background. ThP Tranr Companv. Bin Ch.F.., C.E., F..E. and A.F.. R,M in M.F.. 
''' "'. ' ... 

NOV. ll Man]ll"tte llnivt•rsity-Grn.d. Scho'o1 of Rus'iri<>sd. All intrrestPd studE"nts. Oscar Mavr.r .& Co. B,M in all Discip1ines. 
degrc>P. E.F.. 
' 

nominate oneself. A two or three page autobiography of one's in­tellectual concerns is required and this paper is due November 7. The most important criterion for selection to the Committee is the interview conducted by two faculty members who are C.A.P. advisors. These interviews begin November 10. 
AnyonE;! who would like to apply or obtain additional information should inquire at tpe C.A.P. office in 346 O'Shaugnessy. 
Hairstyling ... with style 
+Award Winning Stylists +Unique Atmosphere 
+ Roffler Styling and Products 

KEN'S DEN 
First Floor, 100 Center Mishawaka, Indiana Appointments Prefered, 255-6500 

CLASSIFIED RDS 
WANTED 

·Need 2-4 GA Navy tix badly. If you're short of money , I'm your friend. Call 232-2773. 
Paperboy desperately needs 4 NAvy lix. Will pay$$ + trib. Call Henry 8851. 
Need Navy tix. Judy 4970. 
Need 2 Navy adjacent GA tix. 234-7668. 
Need 2-4 Navy tix. Call 234­2344. 
Need 7 GA Navy tix. Call John 1774. 
Need 2 GA Navy tix. 8761. 
Need 2 Navy tix. North end zone. Call Jeff 1137. 
Nt!ed 4 GA Navy tix. Call Sue 6793. 
Need 'I• GA or student, tix for Navy. Will pay. 4552. 
Need 3 GA Navy tix. Call Celine 4680. Grazie. 
Need 4 GA Navy tix. Will pay. Call Joe. 3274. 
Riders to Detroit (east side) Sat. during 4th quarter of game lo beat traffic. Call 234-3926. 
Need 2 Navy ticket for diligent law student (ND '71) Prefer student with I D. GA ok. Please call 1284. 
FOR SALE 

MEERSCHAUM PIPES! Exceptional values, per­sonalized service. Catalog. 
PMP Co. Box 444 Gaither­sburg, Md. 20760. 
Fine quality hand-make leather goods . .Great gifts and good deals too. Drop by 165 Morrissey or call 3493. 
Tandenburg 3300X stereo tape deck . Built-in echo + sound­on-sound. Call 7830. 
3 GA Navy tix adjacent. 234· 6733 6-lOpm. 
Panasonic cassette tape deck. Model RS-262US. 1 yr. old. Asking $50. Call al 1072. 
2 Paul Simon tix. $5.50 seats­Tom or Paul 7937. 
Sansui stereeo casseette deck. Dolby unit. Excellent con­dition. Mike 8782. 
Yamaha guitar GFG­300(original retail price $300 ) rosewood inlaid pearl, ad­justable bridge, hardshell case, excellent condition. Call David 
8427. 
Guild bass guitar, good cond. , dual (fender + guild) pickup, semihard shell case, must sell , 
call ~im 140~: ....••••• 
Panason-w=. 8 ·fnack dape deok•J ·, less than _a_yeilr_qlc;l._ t;:<~ll ~ii~Y-___ • 233-4669. 
FOR RENT 
Rooms $40 mo. Mea.r. 233-1329. 
NOTICES 
Morrissey Loan Fund can loan up to $150 1 per cent interest, 1 day waiting period. Basement of LaFortune. 11:15-12:15. Mon-fri. 
Will do typing: term papers, manuscripts, etc. Call 233-6909. 
Intensive language training in Hausa, Swahili, AMharic. Wolof, Fon. Bariban, Thai. Free. See the Peace Corps reps in the Iibrary lobby Oct. 29­Nov. 2 All week. 
Gain valuable career ex­perience through BV 1STA or Peace Corps programs . Offer collge grads many offortunities for experiecne employers demand. Getting a business, law, math, science, economics, architecture or liberal arts degree? See Peace Corps ­VISTA reps in the library lobby Oct. 29-Nov. 2. 
Upset with the employment situation. yet still interested in teacheing? If you have your degree in PE, business ed, math, science, home ec, French, Spanish, or. English, contact Peace Corps-VISTA reps in the Iibrary lobby Oct.­29-Nov. 2. 
If you grew up on a farm, know how to drive a tractor, repair equipment, plant corn, raise livestock-others need to know what you know. See the Peace Corps rep in the library lobby Oct. 29-Nov .2. 
Sewing , Mending , altering. Reasonalbe prices. Call Beth 1298. 
Will the girl who borrowed my football ticket please call 6850. 
Logan Bolunteers: Weds. nile is Halloween Costume Party. at Logan. 7-10 pm. 
IMVORTANT MEETING TONIGHT FOR DKI TRIP TO FRANCE, JAN. 3-11. MEETING AT SAT GARCE TOWER WELL. 
Ski Aspen Jan. 5-12 $120. Deposit $20 La Fortune Lobby Monday + Tuesdsay 7 pm or call 6575 or 1628. 
If you have sex, you may have gonnorrhea, syphilis, or both. If in doubt, check it out! Call 284-9781 or come 9th floor county bldg. Mon thru Fri 8 am -3 pm. Free-no appointments­confisential-bring a friend too. 
pandora's has just received some great new art prints. also, this week only, all used books 50 per cent off list value. Sunday editions of new youk times, chicago suntimes + 
. tribune1 washington. post. .from , ,9,:~0.-?. ;v,e!r d~¥· .9.or,~uncja,.y. 

:·one fbr me ri.lrk Lord on~~:·>.·.' dark throne. In the Lanf of Mordor where the shadows lie. 
the observer Tuesday, October'3o, 1973 



~K~e~e~n~a-n-.-----=--o---=---illon, Howard on top 

by Sam Yan,DUcc; 
By 4 o'clock Saturday afternoon Notre Dame's varsity football team had taken a gigantic step in the direction of a post-season bowl game and a possible national championship. By that same time Sunday afternoon three IH teams­Dillon, Howard, and Keenan--had captured league titles and are now looking forward to the interhall playoffs. 
Powerful Dillon (who are those gu¥s? )won convincingly 34-Q, while Howard, which dethroned Morrissey as League number 1 champs, defeated St. Joe, 8-o. 
Keenan notched the final playoff berth in the easiest of all possible ways, by forfeit as Off-Campus was unable to field the required 11 men. 
Howard and Keenan square off this Sunday in the opening playoff game. 
Wed., October 24 SORIN 14 PANGBORN 0 
Although not quite has happy as the three league champions, Sorin did manage a small celebration after capturing its only win of the season. 
Tim DeMarais provided the only points necessary when he returned a Pangborn punt 65 yards for a touchdown D~Marais also figured in the insurance TD as he caught a 30 yd. bomb from QB John Lar­sburgh. 
Sorin captain John Powers wished to express the teams gratitude to Coach Doctor James Carbarry for all the time and effort he spend on the team. He also added "It's a great way to end the season." 
STANFORD 8 GRACE 0 
Everyone knows that statistics are fo( losers. This adage -was illustrated once again Wednesday night. Grace, although playing a fine overall defensive game, lapsed once, but that once was enough to cost them the game. 
Stanford struck when a backup quarterback George Parker hit 
Mike Pulman with a 40 yd. TD bomb. The 8 points was cushion enough as Stanford's staunch 
defense stymied Grace twice in­side the 10 yard line. The win kept 
·­

--~ 
IND-SC S tatS 
sc 
ND ­First Downs 
21 13 
Yards Rushing 
316 68
Yards Passing 
88 175
Passes Att.-Comp. 
15-7 21-11
Had intercepted 0 2Total yards 
404 243
Punts-Avg. 

5-38.2 I 6-32.5 
Fumbles lost 1 2 
Individual Rushing-Attempts 
ND-Penick -118-13 Clements -5Q-12 ·Best -45-10 Bullock -38-13 Parise -34-8 
SC-Davis -55-19 Carter 6 3 Moore 3 1 
Passing 

Att. Comp.. Yds. captdain.' Mike Fditzgetrafl~t·. fHt e 
7 adde , 'We snappe ou o 1 a er
15 88

NO-Clements they scored but we couldn't get the 
21 11 175
SC-Haden Receiving 
Passes ND-Demmerle 4 Casper 3 sc-swann 
5 McKay I O'Bradovitch . 2 

alive Stanford's hopes of catching league leading Keenan. 
ALUMNI 21 HOLY CROSS 7 

In the nightcap Holy Cross 
shocked Alumni with a quick first 
period touchdown, a 55 yard strike 
from Jeff Butryn to Mik•e 
Hildebrand. 

Alumni remained cool, however, 
and scored three times in th•e 
second half. It was a particularly 
frustrating game for Holy Cross as 
2 long touchdown plays were nullified by penalties. 
Sunday, October 28 
MORRISSEY 25 LYONS 0 

Morrissey ended its season in a 
predictable way--by clobbering 
winless Lyons. The Marauders, 
borrowing a play used by Alabama 
last week, scored on the first play 
of the game when quarterback Tim 
Puntarelli connected with Bob 
Zierk on a 65 yard touchdown pass. 
Puntarelli struck against from 

long range (45 yards) in the third 
period and then from in close (H 
yards) in the fourth quarter; Fran 
Finnegan was the target on both 
occasions. Fullback Jim Dwyer added a final TD when he dove' over from 2 yards out. Wayne w.. aver capped the Marauder scoring by drop kicking the extra point. 
DILLON 34 HOLY CROSS 0 

Undefeated Dillon, showing off its rugged ground attack, prepared for the interhall playoffs by walloping Holy Cross. Mike O'Neil provided more than enough offensive punch scoring three times and accumulating over 200 total yards in offense. 
Also seeing paydirt for the "Big Red" were Craig Tighe and Joe Reppernhoff. Holy Cross gridders had nothing to cheer about Sunday afternoon and little to show for the IH season finishing 0-3-1. 
Boaters go 1-1-1, 
tWO gameS left 
by Hal Munger 

The Irish soccer squad has been 
busy the last two weeks with two 
road games and a game under the 
Cartier Field lights. 

Bradley beat Notre Dame in Peoria, Illinois 5-4 on October 13. The Irish had a bad first half but got one score each from Louis Monserrat and Pat Flood, and a pair of goals from Jafar Moghadam in the second frame. Mike Fitzgerald and Rich Hichwa were the other Irish standouts in the loss. 
On Friday night at home, ND ripped apart Eastern Michigan 4-Q. Steve Malpica tallied once, Bob Donovan canned one, and Moghadam collected 2 more points. Jafar leads the team in scoring this year with 8 goals. 
Yesterday Grace College tied the Irish 2-2 at Grace. Shawn Carroll and Pat Flood supplied the scoring punch for the Irish. "We played a good second half after they played a strong first half," said team 
ball in the net." 

Friday night at 7:00 p.m. ND hosts Northwestern on CartierYds. 
Field. The Irish will be trying to
52 

improve their 2-4-2 record against
36 

NU. The Irish are expecting a close 85 ball game. Notre Dame has only 2 23, remaining games after Friday's 35' contest. 
The Interhall season came to a close Sunday; playoffs will get underway next weekend. 
STANFORD 14 FLANNER 7 

Upset minded Flanner, which held a 7-0 halftime lead, finally succumbed to Stanford's 14 point secol1d half surge. 
Planner had grabbed the lead on a 10 yard scoring pitch from Steve Sonetello to AI Bucci. Stanford retaliated with Bill Blum's 12 yard bootleg. Blum then bombed 25 yards to Mike Pulamn for the decisive score. DHB Pete Diamond doused Planner's upset hopes with 2 second half in­terceptions. 
HOWARD 8 ST. JOE 0 

Howard, coming on stronger than Tarzan after the ivory thieves, picked up its fourth win of the year as well as the League number 1 championship. 
Although the offense sputtered after Rick Arrensburgh's first period touchdown, the defense registered its third consecutive whitewash. 
The loss dropped St. Joe's season record to 2-3. 
ZAHM 20 CAVANAUGH 0 

Cavanaugh's offensive antics 
were wilder than a monkey on 50 
feet of new grapevine but they 
weren't enough to stop Zahm from 
gaining its third victory. 

Zahm tailback Jack Leich 
scored twice, once on a 53 yard 
sweep and the other on a 10 yard 
run. Mike Mountford also got into . 
the act by picking off a Cavanaugh, 
fumble in mid-air and bee-lining it 
35 yards into the end zone. 
Final Standings 
League 1 
Howard 4-Q-1 
Morrissey 3-1-1 
Zahm 3-2-o 
St. Joe 2-3-o 
Cavanaugh 1-2-2 
Lyons 0-5-o 
League 2 
Dillon 4-0-o 
Alumni 3-1-o 
Sorin 1-2-1 
Pangborn 1-3-0 
Holy Cross 0-3-1 
League 3 
Keenan 3-Q-1 
Stanford 3-1-o 
Planner 1-2-1 
Grace 1-2-1 
Off-campus ~-1 



NEW I DIFFERENT I 


HILARIOUS 
SPORTS PICTURES! 
Conversation pieces, for gifts or to add fun to home _or office. Black and whitf prints of original pen and ink drawings, direct from 
the artist. 

Brilliant humor, created 
to appeal to all. Rated G! 
8"x10", ready to frame. 
$1.97 each. 
Satisfaction guaranteed or 

money refunded. . --~:wu:c 
MAIL COUPON TODAY! 
Warren Jewell, 101 N.E. 192 St., Miami, Fla. 33162 : Please send me 0 201 I 0 202. Enclosed is • 0 check I 0 money order for $ •• 
PLEASE PRINT e 
Name______________________________________ •• Address___________________________________ •• 
• 
City·------------------: 
State____________________Zip_______ : 

CILA CHRISTMAS CARDS 
Designed by mem­bers of the N D community and sold by CILA 
( Counci I for the In­ternational Lay Apostolate) 
SOLD ON CAMPUS this weeki 
-in the halls (ND&SMC) -in Campus Ministry -in the dining halls 
Tonight from 10 to 12 the cards will be sold in Keenan, Stanford, Badin, and Regina, LeMan~, and McCandless at SMC. Wednesday from 10 to 12 in Pangborn, Breen-Phillips, and Dillon 






