

On The Inside 
Christmas basketabll and hockey summaries pages 6 and 7 


serving the notre dome -st. mary's community
Vol. VII, No. 61 Thursday, January 18, 1973 
New calendar 

agreed upon 
Dt>spite Academic Council approval of a pre-Labor Dav start. Notre Dame students will return to classes next year on September 5, two days after Labor Day. 
The unexpected shift from the pre-Labor Day start resulted from the scheduling of the annual Mobile Home Show for the weekend during which students would return to classes. Administraton officials did not forsee the conflict when approval for the change was obtained from the Academic Council on December 14 bv 28 to 19 vote. 
·It is expected at this time that the 1974-75 Academic Calendar. which will be released by the Administration in a few weeks. will include a starting date of August 29. 
The official 1973-74 calendar, while it does not begin parlv. does include one feature of the Administration­favored early-start calendar, the mid-semester break, October 18 to 22. This break is designed to produce a more leisurely pace in the first semester and will make a four-day. non-football weekend. 
pros and cons 
Proponents of the early start stressed the need for a break in the fall semester, some observing that the Pxodus of students prior to the official Thanksgiving holiday testified to the same feeling on their part. It was also noted that a recent survey of 2,450 American institutions of higher learning revealed that 976 had "party start" calendars, an increase of 314 in two vears. · Opponents of the early start argued that it would cost students at least a week of work time at the end of the summer. Student representatives also contended that students who had job commitments through Labor Day would lose their primary source of income. Arts and Letters College representative Fred Giuffrida treed to table the motion to start early in order to permit adequate discussion within the University Community. His motion failed. 21 to 19. 
"Time for discussion was really minimal," com­mented Giuffrida. "It would have been much better had the student body been adequately informed so that all the arguments could have ben aired properly. Unfortunately, such was not the case." 
students opposed? 
Student Government Academic Commissioner Ed 
Ellis said he favored the change personally, but op­
posed it in the Council because most students seemed 
opposed. 
"Most people I spoke with opposed the change, and I 
was prepared to present those opinions," commented 
Ellis. "The conflict with the home show helps the 
students out this time. but next year I expect we will 
start earlv'' 


other A.C. debates 
The. remainder of the Academic Council's 
deliberations before Christmas were a continued 
review of proposed revisions in the Faculty Manual. 
Principal actions included the following: 
-Substitution of a statement on academic freedom 
written by Dr. Edward Vasta, chairman of the 
Department of English, for the on~ contained in the 
Council's steering committee revision. Differences 
were a matter of phrasing, not of substance. 
-Rejection. after long discussion, of a move to 
substitute the faculty Senate-s revision of procedures 
for appointment and promotion for that of the Council's 
Steering Committee. Discussion came to center on 
whether or not the Council ought to adopt the Faculty 
Senate's provision for notifying department chairman 
through the dean of the reasons in any case where 
positive recommendations of a departmental ap­
pointments and promotions committee were over­
turned by the provost or the president. The vote to 
reject this Faculty Senate provision was 21-19. 
-Added dishonesty to ttie definition of serious cause 
under which the University can dismiss a faculty 
member. 
Two articles are left for initial Academic Council 
consideration when it convenes during the second 
term-Article IV dealing with the organization of the 
faculty and Article V on procedures for reviewing and 
amending the Manual. 

Dorm resident leaves ND over parietals violation 
by Don Ruane 
A Lewis Hall resident voluntarily withdr_ew from Notre Dame Dec. 
II. IH7-2 rather than face expulsion and loss of her educational visa for violating hall parietal rules. 
The woman, a graduate student in government from France was giv~n. the ch~nce to. voluntarily withdraw when she appealed a deciSIOn by-VIce President for Advance Studies Dr. Robert Gordon. which was apparently made on the basis of a report from the security dep~~tment. Gordon expelled her Dec. 7, but she appealed the deciSIOn two days later to Provost James T. Burtchaell. 
As of Jan. 3, when Gordon sent a letter with attached regulations to all graduate students, there was no central judicial and appeals procedure for graduate students comparable with that for un­dergraduates. All cases were either handled by Gordon himself or through his staff which then forewarded a report to him. ' 

· · ·· According to the security report, an anonymous phone call from Lewis Hall reporting that a man was living with the woman was received Nov. 27. At 10 a.m. the next day, Security Director Arthur Pears and Investigator Jerry McGlvnn went to the woman's room.· They attempted to contact the rector. Sr. Theresa Sandok, according to official procedure, but she was out of town. They sought advice from the Dean of Students and were told to enter and get the man out. They reached the Housemother, whose duties in­clude responsibility for the hall in 
Security Director Arthur the rector's absence, who took Pears them to the woman's room. 
Reports vary as to what happened next. The security report says the woman asked who was there when she heard them knock, but the woman told Sr. Sanc;lok that she made no inquiry. The report also states that the housen:othe~ _identified herself and security, but the housemother says she Identified only herself. No other identification was given, and no rights were stated for the woman. 
The woman, when asked, replied she had a man in her room and the security men entered. Both the woman's report and the 'security r~port agreed t~at the man had his pants on at this time, but security ~ilffers because It says he did not have a shirt on, "and had apparently Just gotte~ out of bed," a comment not supported by evidence. 
Accordmg to the woman, as she attempted to explain her un­d_er~tanding of the 24 hour parietal rule, Pears cut her off and in­!Imida~ed her by referring to her arrest in South Bend for shop lifting. She said she pleaded guilty and was fined, while the security report says. "she pleaded not guilty, she was found guilty." 
The man who had been staying there for five days, was told to leave the campus and not to return or face trespassing charges. The officers helped carry his things downstairs. 
Pears allegedly called the woman a "pig" and referred to her room as a sty. During further_ questi?n.in~ at security headquarters, he is reported to have been qmte explicit, mtense and insulting. In a typed list of ii_Iaccu~ilcies by the woman, she says Pears "had pushed me to my limit by his reproach: "and you ,gave him your body!" 
Yesterday he replied to the allegations with. "I know nothing about it. I don't know where you got that." He refused to make any comment on the various steps of the raid. Pears cited University policy which prohibits public discussion of any student disciplinary matter in the interest of the student's privacy. 
The woman has appeared publicly to discuss the incident with residents of Lewis HalL 
On Thursday, Dec. 7, the woman kept an appointment with Gordon. i During the meeting she was told ~·I' that she was expelled, could not complete the semester or get credit, and that she would have to 


Dr. Robert Gordon
leave campus by Dec. 11. 
When contacted yesterday about the case, Gordon said, "I have no comment on that. That case is closed." 
While appealing the decision to the Provost, the woman was told she woul? not lose her visa if she voluntarily withdrew in writing and was admitted to another school for the second semester. She is now :-vorking at a midwest college that does not have a graduate program m government. Her position is not known, but sources believe she maybe teaching. 
(continued on page 5) 

Grad students get new code 
... details on page 2 

Farley, B-P read to co-ed decision 
... see page 5 
~~---­

the observer Thursday, January 18, 1973 
warld briefs 
(C) 1973 New York Times 

----------------------------,---:-• 
London--Britain's Prime Minister Heath announced comprehensive anti-inflation measures patterned after the recent Phase 2 controls in the United States. The plan. Britain's most comprehensive since World War II. calls for wage and price boards and an average seven per cent limit on pay increases during the next year. , about half the recent rate. To give Parliament time to approve the measures, Heath extended the current freeze for 60 days. 
.. Manila--President Ferdinand E. Marcos consolidated his virtually unlimited power over the Philippines by proclaiming a. new c~n­stitution. extending martial law indefinitely and suspendmg an m­terim assembly that was to have served as a legislature under the new constitution. Marcos, whose new powers were sanctioned by a hand-picked Nsational Assembly, refused to specify just how long he would keep them. 
.. Washington--President Nixon authorized increased petroleum im­ports to ease the fuel oil shortage. But it was uncertain if the action would avert further heating oil shortages, particuarly in areas with subnormal temperatures. "We're going to have tight fuel oil situation all winter." said George A. Lincoln, the President's chief advisor on oil imoorts. 
an campus taday 
6:30 pm--track--n.d. v. miami, a.c.c. 7:30 pm--"india '73"--presentation carroll hall 
7:30pm--lecture "the christian task in people liberation" by violette Iindbeck. sponsor: campus ministry. moreau, little theater 
8:OOpm--charismatic prayer meeting, holy cross hall 

at nd-smc: 
New code for graduate students 
A disciplinary code and appeals proc.edure for graduate students will be discussed at 7:30 tonight in Ll·wis Hall by the Advanced Students Affairs Committee and any graduate students interested l'nough to show up and contribute suggestions and ideas. 
The £>stablishment of the code was prompted by the recent \'oluntarv withdrawal of a Lewis llall n•sident after a parietal \'iolation <see story page 1 l, and a numb£>r of incidents during the last three semestersinvolving ex­ct•ssive noise for the most part. 
In a letter dated Jan. 3, Vice PrPsident for Advanced Studies, llr. Hobert Gordon explained the rwed for such measures, and why that at the time the letter was writt£>n there was "no central judicial and appeals mechanism on par with that existing for un­dt•rgraduates." 
Ill' also outlined an interim rnt•asure to handle violations of !1,l'nl•ral rules. It provides that the aeeused be informed of the com­plaint's nature. and be offered a private hearing with the dean of students who will make a decision and recommendation to the vice president for advanced studies. The vice president shall look for viola lions of due process, and inl'orm the accused of the final decision. 
The accused, if he believes there was violation of due process, may seek a special review in writing by an unbiased "special hearing officer" appointed by the vice president from one of the two 

graduate schools in which the 
student is not enrolled. The officer 
shall recommend action to the vice 
president for a decision, which 
may be appealed to the president. 
Gordon had considered ad­
vaneed student residence halls as 
"separate entities" from the other 
residence halls. and that hall 
residents a"would accept the 
responsibility'' integral to the 
freedom of self governance. 

He also assumed that it was not 
"neecessary to elaborate sets of 
rules and governing mechanisms" 
similar to those applying to un­
dergradutes. 

"Nl•vertheless," Gordon wrote, "as a result of reports received during the first semester of this academic vear. I am forced to ·conclude · that my general philosophy and basic assumptions are not applicable to all advanced students. and hence, some 
modifications are required." 

Gordon wants to continue self 
governance, but within certain 
parameters. In the past. 
disciplinary action was handled 
directlv bv Gordon, or his staff 
which 'made recommendations to 
him for final disposition. There 
also was an agreement that ad­
\'anced student cases would be 
passed directly to him by the dean 
of students. who handles all other 
cases. 

Last month Gordon received a 
letter from Graduate Student 
Union President Barry Wessels 
which referred to the parietal 
violation in Lewis Hall. Wessels 
called the matter "a critical test 
Regan becomes new Development Director 
Brian C. Regan, a regional airector of development at the University of Notre D"\me since 1968, has been named Director of Development. 
· The appointment was made by James W. Frick,Vice-President for Pubiic Relations and Development
at the University, who satd Regan would oversee the University's planning and programs in the development area. 
Regan succeeds Frank G. Kelly, who will return to the position of director of deferred giving, a post he held between 1963 and 1966, when he became Frick's assistant. Kelly has served as Director of Develop111_ent since 1969, a :period which included Notre Dame's most successful capital gifts campaign, ·•summa," which raised $61 million. 
Regan, 33, is a native of Joliet, Ill., and a 1961 graduate of the University. As a regional director he supervised development ac­tivities of Notre Dame in 15 nor­theastern states and the District of 
Columbi~. 
A major in the U.S. Marine Corps Reserves, Regan !?erved four years as a company officer with the 2nd Marine Division at Camp \LeJeune, N.C., and is a for­mer commanding officer of the Marine ~.~Corps Reserve organization tn South Bend. He is president of the St. Joseph Valley Notre Dame Club and is also a member of South Bend Rotary. 

Equipment firm in Aurora, Ill. He and his wife. Sharon, and their three children reside at 410 Peash­way in South Bend. 

Legal Aid Assoc. 
Notre Dame Legal Aid and Defender Association, located in Room 104 of the Notre Dame Law School <The Old Biology Building), announces that its Student Legal Counseling Service will again be offered this semester. 
The Service is run by third year law students and is designed to assist the Notre Dame Student Body in ·any of its minor legal problems. Law studnets will be available for personal interviews and telephone contacts, 1-4 pm Monday through Thursday. The telephone number for the Student Legal Counseling Service is 283­6704. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester ex­cept vacations by the students of the l'niversity of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchesed for sa per semester ( 14 per year) from the Observer, l>ox Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 

for graduate student rights." 
The GSU leader added that the lack of judicial procedure is a ll'gitimate grievance, and that the trustees recognize graduate students as different; and not subject to the undergraduate student manual. 
Wl'ssels complained that an undergraduate rule was used in the Ll'wis Hall case without due process. and that the woman in­\'olved "should not be put up for sacrifice just because the review board mechanism does not exist." 
He requested that the Advanced Student Affairs Committee hold a private hearing on the case, and that in the future a subcommittee of the ASAC review such cases and report to Gordon. 
Attached to Gordon's letter was a list of regulations specifically <tpplicable to advanced students. and the recommendation to digest tlw student manual and other regulation and policy documents. The attached regulations were concerned with: parietals, over­night guests. alcoholic beverages, drugs, violation of civil law. motor vehicles, theft and vandalism, and the rights of fellow students. Any violation of these could result in loss of campus residency and separation from the University. 
C'opies of Gordon's letter and the regulations may be had at his office. 314 Administration. 
BPM FRiDA.Y UANUAR'V 26th 
all_~~.....• 

TICKETS AVAILABLE AT... AUDITORIUM BOX OFFICE 12-~~~~\JY)~ 5 PM DAILY.... PANDORA's BOOK STORE' 
~.,...l_________ 
THE STUDENT UNION PRESENTS 
a Mardi Gras concert with 



SANTANA 

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 9 at 8:00 
Tickets: $5.50 4.50, 3.00 

First ticket sale will be announced next week. 
a bus to Indianapolis to see 

NEIL YOUNG in concert 
TUESDAY FEBRUARY 13 

$6.50 concert ticket plus price of bus ride: sorry we cannot sell concert tickets 
separately. 

Ticket sale to be announced 
an evening with 



THE PAUL WINTER CONSORT 
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 24 8:00pm in O'Laughlin Auditorium Tickets: $2.50 in advance, $3.00 at the door. 
Ticket sale to be announred. 
--·---·---·---~·--­

-------·------­
. . . 
.' ~ .' .\ . 

f •• t
~ r , ' ' I 
. . . . . .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. .. -.......... -........ . . ~ . . . -.. .. -. .. .. .. . . . . . . . . . . . 
·~-·--... ·----·-······ 
Thursday, January 18, 1973 the observer 
ND, SMC receive Haggar Foundation grants 

.1. 1\'l. Haggar Hall of Psychology. 
Vaughn. a graduate of St. Mary's. ehildren's hospital. Fmally, money 
From Press Releases 

ln acknowledging the gift to Other beneficiaries of the grants was granted for the formation of Notre Dame. President Theodore were the University of Dallas, who Haggar Civic Appeals Funds to be
Notre Dame and St. Mary's each 

l\1. Hesburgh said, "This received $750,000· for the con­used to community projects in reeeived part of a three-million benefaction highlights more than a struction of a student center to be fourteen Texas and Okiahoma quarter eentury of service to Notre nanwd the J. M. Haggar Student cities where the Haggar Company
dollar grant made by the Dallas 
DamP by Mr. Haggar and his Cneter: Southern Methodist opPrates.based Haggar Foundation to mark rl'markable family, and we are tlniversity. Bishop College in .1. l\1. Haggar. Jr., commented the BOth birthday of founder J. M. greateful for their continuing Dallas. and Dallas Baptist College, on the grants. saying that "the Haggar. Sr., just prior to the loyalty and generosity to the who received grants similar to that Haggar family, which includes Christmas vacalion. llniversitv." of St. l\lary's: Jesuit College Pmployees. feels that each of these 
The grants also included The St. 'Mary's grant. confirmed Preperatory SchooL Bishop Dunne gifts follows J. M. Haggar'sdonations to Southern Methodist to be $50,000 by SMC President Dr. High SchooL Bishop Lynch High philosophy that superior peopletlniversitv, the University of Edward L. Henry, was designated Sehool. and Ursaline Academy. all produce superior goods and ser­Dallas ~nd various Dallas for minority and underprivileged of Dallas and all receiving grants \'ices. In Dad's honor we have paroehial high schools and small students' scholarships. to eontinue or start scholarship invested to help to provide those colleges with which Haggar has Dr. lll'nry commented, "We are programs. qualities." been doselv associated in the past. \'l'r~· greateful to Mr. Haggar and In addition to the academic r· 
For Your Convenience
The Notre Dame grant, an­his family for recognizing the grants were several civic grants. nounced by the University as contributions St. Mary's College including grants to the
Joseph M. Haggar. Sr.
totaling $750,000, will be used to has made to .. American Thanksgiving Square project in 

MR. BARON
(center) is flanked by sons
expand upon previous con­Pdueation." Dallas. to be used for the con­
Edmond (left) and Joseph Jr.
tributions and used in the ex­The donations were announced struction of a fountain within the
(right) at his 80th birthday
pansiun and renovation of Wen­at a birthday party for Haggar at gardens of the completed Square; 
part.\'. 
Men's hairstylist for­vacated by the Biology Depart­given by his sons. Edmond R. both graouates of Notre Dame, and phis. Tenn., to be used in the 
ninger-Kirsch Hall, recently the Fairmont Hotel iun Dallas and St. Jude's Hospital in Mem­
merly of Continental ment. which will be designated the llaggar and J. M. Haggar, Jr., his daughter. Rosemary Haggar eonstruction of a new wing at the 
has moved to a new location. Cutting and styling ND student's hair for 5 years. Special
Credit -hour limits still to be reached 
every Monday and Tuesday--Cut and shape
students to enroll. Priority was "Hopefully we will be able to
by Mary Egan Wlwn commenting on why the 
only $3.00 
Observer Staff Reporter given to seniors among the 60 SMC n•solve our differences within the maximum number of SMC creditstudents permitted to enroll. next few weeks and a resolved hours wt>re not used. Hickey stated 
VIVIAN'S SOUTH
Aecording to Sullivan, statement will be released by Dr. 
"it's pretty obvious that somerl'gistra tion went "fine." He said llt>nrv and Fr. Burtchaell," stated 

phone 291-0143
Neither Notre Dame nor St. guidelines produced by St. Mary's
lw "would have been satisfied with lliekev. He said he was reasonably
l\larv's students exceeded the 3,000 kt•pt ·the boundaries within the en•d.it hours limit on the coex­anything under 3,000 hours," satisfied with the way registration quota system."rl'ferring to the eoex hours ceiling. 
change classes this !lemester. \\'Pnt. 
Hickey has been working with

BPeause St. Mary's students were 
ND's Dr. William Burke, an

over 1.000 hours short of the 
assistant provost. on the exchange 

cl'iling. the few freshmen who 
of classes. Hickey stated that he is 

dected to take a course at Notre 
trying to come up with a draft of a

DamP this semester and pay the 
proposal involving a two-year

ft't' were not required to do so. 
eommitment. in order to "get the
Tlw present number of credit 
most Pducational benefit for the
hours SMC students are using is 
students."
between 1,700 and 1,800. Notre 
Thl' present program involves a
Dame's registrar. Richard 
hassle in terms of balance of the
Sullivan. stated that the exact 
students. Hickey feels that the
number of coex credit hours N.D. 
students should kiww what kind of
students were using was 
eourses thev will be able to take in
unavailable because "the process 
thl' future.·
of registering is still going on." Sullivan was referring to the fact that students of both schools who are already registered for a coex course may drop it. 
No student of either school mav now register for a coexch;; ng~· eourse according to the guidelines spt up by each school. This is so "bl'eause there's no other way to kt>Pp the system in check. We need time to analyze the situation and especially to see where heavy enrollments might cause a bur­dt•n." stated Dr. William A. II iekey. St. Mary's vice president of Academic Affairs. 
Psychology 481, taught at SMC, "was overerirolled by well over 100 students." Hickey said. This problem was solved by adding another section and allowing 60 ND students to enrolL and 60 SMC 
The details of the program will lw released more appropriately at tlw time the proposal is realea.~. ' to the eommunity." 
Co-ex tix 
1 18  Tl•ursday  Grace Walsh  
1 19  Friday  Howard. Keenan  
1 20  Saturday  Stanford Dillon  
1 21  Sunday  Alumni ·Zahm  
122  Monday  Lyons.Grace.  
1 23  Tuesday  Panqborn Flanner  
1 24  W£'dnesday  Fisher Farley  
1 25  Thursday  Cavenaugh Sorin  
1 16  Friday  St.  Ed.'s B.P.  
1 27  Saturday  Morrissev·H.C.  
1 28  Sunda·y  Flanner ·Badin  







JESUS 

is LORD 

AND IT MAKES A DIFFERENCE•••• 
Really 

There is a new life for you. There is power in living as a Christian, come and see•.• Make 
JESUS RETREAT 


24 hours: Friday 
Jan 19, Bpm to Saturday .Jan 20, Bp 
CALL 282-2508 (LAURA) Daytime 283-6868 (PAUL) Evenings Sponsored by True House Catholic Expenses $3.50 Charismatic Community at ND 


WHAT'S YOUR GIRL BACK 
HOME DOING TONIGHT? 

Long distance still is the next best thing to. being 
@ Indiana Bell 



THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
John Abowd  0.:t Thornton  
Editor-in-Chief  NEWS: 283-1715  Business Manager  
EDITORIALS: 283-8661  
Don Ruane  BUSINESS: 283-7471  Joe Butler  
Executive Editor  Ad11ertising Manager  

Thursday, January 18, 1973 


A Cloud of Secrecy 
The semester break prompted a flurry of bureaucratic activity all of which left the N D students uninformed and out in the cold. Particularly disturbing were two sets of incidents which resulted in 1) the two new women's dorms and 2) the academic calendar for 1973-1974. 
The decisions were reached at a point in last semester when the students were suffering through the finals cram. Also, the decisions did not reach the students because at the time of their unveiling both campuses' news medias were silent, having completed the~r semester work schedule. So, the student stood too busy to care and reasonably uninformed. 
BP and Farley 

The choice of these two North Quad halls is not particularly controversial. What is subject to controversy is the manner in which the decision was made. 
From all indications, Fr. Hesburgh was presented with a recommendation as to which halls to pick for next year's women students. The recommendation came 
from a committee who's sole purpose was to research the situation and come up with the two halls on the North Quad which would best satisfy the numerical needs of the new women and the financial needs of the University. That committee recommended to Fr. Hesburgh that Breen Phillips and Zahm Halls be chosen. When that decision came to Fr. Hesburgh, he ignored the research, time, and effort of the committee and overruled their finding. In a purely unilateral move, he replaced Zahm Hall with Farley Hall. 
Therein lies the contr.oversy. Without offering any strong reasoning behind his move, Hesburgh overlooked three and a half weeks of work in favor of his own opmwn. It smacks of bureaucratic totalitarianism. 
The weak reasoning that he offered was that they wanted the girls halls to be together. That great vast separation of the North Quad would serve much like the English Channel and isolate and separate the women leaving them exposed to the ravages of the Anglo-Saxon hoards. 
I happen to agree with Chris Singleton, President of Farley when he said " ...Fr. Hesburgh showed that he doesn't have much respect for the people involved." 
The Academic Calendar 
If the problem limited itself to one issue, it would't seem so severe. But the on-again-off-again academic calendar throws the issue into a closer focus. 
The Academic Council voted on December 14 to begin the 1973-74 school year before Labor Day. The same issue last year broughtscreams of disapproval from the student body and a successful petition drive forced the issue to the foreground where it was defeated in an Academic Council showdown. This year the same issue was approved by the council at a time when the students would remain uninformed about it. Thus, despire an Observer final issue story announcing the possibility of the new calendar's passage, the issue remained shrouded, unexcited, and unacted upon. 
To further complicate the situation, over the semester break, it was discovered that the annual Mobile Home Show conflicted with the early start and thus the calendar had to be altered back to the post-Labor Day starting date. 
It all seems to be hiding something from the student, the one most affected by decisions of this magnitude. How can we trust someone or something when everything it does is clouded in some form of secrecy? 
Jerry Lutkus 
Gardian Knat 


Dancing Music 
Ed Ellis 

It has often been argued to me by a very good friend that the Four 
Horsemen of Notre Dame are not Johnny Lattner and com~,>any, but 
rather a local variant of Grantlord Rice's apocalyptic team mcluding
Famine. Dread the Plague, and Celibacy. 

It is further argued by my friend that on long, cold winter nights
indigenous to Norther Indiana these four gents terrorize the widswept 
plains between Sorin and Walsh, Morrissey and Pangborn, Farley and 
Grace. etc. 

Now this is not really that disturbing an argument if one thinks 
about it for long. Who among us has not spent one of those nasty
February evenings very alone, very profoundly disturbed, and keenly 
desirous of some eighty-six proof courage w1th which to storm the 
current fortress of feminine inviolability. 

There is. of course. another argument that conveniently scurries to 
the underbrush behind the Old College whenever the quartet rambles. 
It is simply that the four are not really that dreadful, or celibate, or 
anything else. but that the basic undergraduate populace around here 
has been possessed by some sort of cosmic letargy that prohibits a 
good time. My spies have informed me that 80 per cent of Domers of 
both sexes come from single sex high schools; which of course is 
something we will not find in Admissions Report No. I. 

My spies _are certainly not sociologists <it probably wouldn't do 
much good 1f there.verel, but they have observed that such a basic 
common factor largely enfeebles any effort to mix the sexes-in short 
it makes it that much harder to have a good time here. ' 
And if we look around, we must admit that few people, if any, are 
really happy. Student Government and Observer people, astute­
observers-of-the-obvious that they are, have often noticed this, and 
they have proselytized all over the subject until their bladders were at 
times quite empty. And they were and are ignored, and shouid be, 
because they are all self-seeking fools who would do best to He down 
and die beneath the horses' hooves. Anyone who suggest in the 1973 
Student Body Presidential campaign that parietals and drinking and 
smoking regulations are at the root of Notre Dame's malaise ought to 
be married on the spot to the lady on top of the Dome, because that's 
about how much sex they deserve. _ 

Now it's fairly obvious that such inane regulations could be over­
thrown with somethin~ less that an (•picstruggle. But I, for one, hope 
with all my heart that 1t never becomes necessary, because that would 
take time and energy for what must be our major effort this Spring 
semester. 1973: we must party, and have a good time, and make fun a 
sort of contagious thing. 

Only when we are really mixing, between the sexes, the races, and 
the essential human natures, will the people who sit alone in their 
rooms on a Saturday night perusing Max Weber, Shakespeare, or 
whatever, realize that it is not Father Burtchaell, or the Student 
(;overnment. or the Hall Presidents that must present Notre Dame 
with a gold-and-silver;gift wrapped haven for social misfits. It is 
rather the duty of each social m1sfit to overcome <with the aid of 86 
proof courage if necessary; we must allow ourselves a little latitute 
here) the peculiar nature of the Notre Dame student body. 

And so. let the library put Michelob on tap in the water fountains, 
and failing that, let it become a place, as the man says, "for thse who 
will not sing." 

Let the kegs be carted up the Grace Hall elevators in sixpacks, and 
let Father Hesburgh swim in a flood of whiskey sours as he leaves the 
Administration Building at 3 a.m. Make every dormitory room fit for 
permanent double occupancy. And most of all. let Notre Dame be known as a place where one comes to learn how to live. rather than a nlace where one dies-slowlv. 
The Four Horsemen will always ride. There will always be the dread 
that follows life's greatest disappointments. But the Horsemen only make people constitutionally uphappy if they are afraid to saddle their own horses. 
We have here a nasty situation in many ways. All is not as we would like it. Not the sex ratio, the Admissions policy, or the weather. But really now. it's all we got, and we have to use it. 
And so. in this semester that will be the last for a fourth of this campus. let us dance and sing And let us be happy. We must saddle those horses. and, as DarrellKoyal once said, "We'll dance with who brung us." 
the observer 
Managing Editor: Joe Abell News Editor: Anthony Abowd St. Mary's Editor: ,Maria Gallagher Editorial Editor: Jerry Lutkus Features Editor: Rod Braye Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson Associate Editors: Bob Higgins, Ed Ellis Special Projects Editor: Dan Barrett Asst. Ad Manager: Patti Strobel Business Secretary: Ceil Popovich Subscriptions Manager: Art Ferranti Production Manager: Joe Wilkowski Circulation: John Woods 
ISSUE STAFF: 

Night Editor: George Lund Ass'! Night Editor: Art Esposito Day Editor Day Editor: Tom Drape Pictureman: Jerome Phillips and Stan Lee Sports Night Editor: 
Jim Donaldson Night Controller; Howard Halle Typists: Barb Norcross, John Flannigan, Steve Roper, and the new girl with the red hair. 
Editorials printed, in The Observer reflect the opinion of the writer on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the individual writer; they· are not to be taken as editorial comment. 



''"80v1 .:r pO/IIr
"'"' 
'. KNOW! rHEJ2.B 
!J)~~t-, 1.-001\ 
7i.fl,s NO RC'TVIZIV 
fJ( THf3' POSTI111Rir1
rr? 
AOPR£55. 
!$ /r. ..
I yes/
( I 

Thursday, January 18, 1973 the observer 



Levvis Hall resident voluntarily vvithdravvs 

(continued from page 1) case is clouded by what seems to lie had his shirt on. Mr. Peers has 4. "He spent his nights and days up :J times from North Carolina be improper police procedures and no right to assert that he had just ·with her in her room." during the whole semester.
Next. she sought the aid of the 
a report filled with insinuations of gotten out of bed. Comt' on! 

American Association of II. "taking baths and showers
moral turpitude. Below are nine

University Professors <<AAUPl. :t llnder the .university rules 5. "This was the way of life in together."
inaccuracies the woman fou11d in

Local chapter president Paul and regulations no male was !<'ranee and people in the United 
Why multiply what happened
the report. After each number is a

({athburn spoke with Burtchaell allowed to live with a female in the States did not understand this." 
once'! <to be precise: one showerdirect quote from the report,
about the harshness of the punish­dormitory." I never told him that. This sounds and no bath. l 
followed by her explanation and

ment and the apparent lack of due At that point. Mr. Pears forgets to as if I was trying to justify myself 
comments. !l. "she said she took a shower
process. The appeal was denied. report that I tried to inform him in a completely silly way. The only with her boyfriend so he would notHathburn called the security I. ..A female voice inquired as to about the special regulations of justification I gave to Mr. Pears ­
he embarrassed by other girls
report "an atrocity." who it WllS. Mrs. Hofman stated Lewis Hall <the only ones I knew at because he had pushed me to my corning into the bathroom."
Finally. the woman appealed to that it was Mrs. Hofman and that timel, That is : no restriction limit by his reproach: "and youUniversity President Theodore M. Security Officers." of hours for male visitors. He cut gave him your body!" --was that I I never told "that to Mr. Pears. I I did not ask who it was and con­me o!T immediately, and in-love him ... 
llesburgh who upheld the decision, was concerned about the em­was sympathetic. and ac­Sl'quently did not get the response timidated me: "Wait. we have to !i. I pleaded guilty and told that barrassment of the'other girls, and 
cording to sources. offered to write 
stated itbove. Therefore, I did not talk about your arrest downtown", to l\lr. Pears. Besides. the way this used to check to see if anyone were a letter of recommendation. 
know who was here when I opened which had· nothing to do with the phrase is written puts me in a very in the bathroom before letting him 
enter it.

This is the first time a Notre thl' door. point I was discussing. but which bad light: "she pleaded not guilty ­Dame student has been threatened :!. "He was dressed in trousers. shocked me and put me down she was found guilty." This phrase again sounds as if I 
with expulsion. and forced to with­no shirt and had apparently just wanted to justify myself with silly 
because I did not think that Notre 7. liP did not use to "come and go draw for a parietal violation. The got out of bed." Dame did know about my arrest. from time to time" but has driven arguments. 
•

Selection of Farley surprlse to .many people 
by Joe McCormack Singleton. President of Farley a desire on the part of the ad­approximHtely 50 beds will be lost nouncement until late in. the second IIaII. ministration to keep both woemd­and much more renovation is 
The selection of Farley Hall over semester. The men in his hall,
Acl·ording to Fr. James Shilts, n's dorms together rather than necessarv here than would be in

Zahrn as a women's residence for Shilts remarked. "will continue to
Director of Student Services and separated by the width of the North ZHhm. · vear came as a surprise to rector of Farley, "I was surprised t~uad. According to Fr. Flanigan, "It seems that Fr. Hesburgh be innovative and dedicated." 

many people. including the 
lbv the selections). We knew what this the main consideration, wants to keep the women 

committee that made the was Singleton agreed that the feared 
tht• recommendations were. so along with the fact that choosing isolated." Singleton added, "and 

recommendations. 
\\"hen we heard that Farley was Farley would allow for a greater that is not what coeducation is "demoralization" would not takeThe tripartite committee was chosen. we were all surprised." number of women then the B-P-­about." place. saying, "We all realized that
entrusted with the task of 
The news of the decision was Zahm combination. Singleton criticized the decision

gathering information on the 
given to the rectors of both Farley The committee report was made in the face of the com­not much could be done and we selection of new women's dorms 
and Breen-Phillips on the evening submitted to the office of Student mittee's report. saying, "I'm bitter plan to finish our stay here in theand making recommendations to of Ike. 17. and each hall held a Affairs. and went from there to the not as a Farley resident. but as the manner which has made Farley athe administration. It suggested 
nweting late that night. Provost's office and Fr. Hesburgh. nwmber of ·a committee that unique hall.

Breen-Phillips and Zahm as the 
"The guys took the news in the Chris Singleton explained the carefully weighed all con­The reactions in Breen-Phillipsmost practical choices. 
·manner I hoped and expected they committee's reasons for picking siderations and then had its to the decision were more passive.
l{epresenting the Hall 
would. They reacted in a very Zahm. a decision arrived at after recommendation rejected on one The rector. Fr. John Schuneman
President's Council. the Hall 
mature way. showing no bit­three and a half weeks of issue-location." noted. "There had been rumoursrectos. and the SLC on the com­terness. only disappointment," discussion. "In making this decision, Fr. around for some time. We'd been mittee are Sr. Miriam Jones, Asst. 
Shilts remarked. "I too am "In coming to this recom­llesburgh showed that he doesn't surprised if we hadn't been
the Provost. Fr. James 
disappointed." he continued, "not mendation. we considered several have much respect for the people picked." .

Flanigan. acting Assoc. Vice 
for m~·self but for guys like Rick factors! number of beds lost, involved." Singleton commented. Hall President Joe PassiatorePresident for Student Affairs, Mr. 
Anderson <the Farley Hall amount of renovaation necessary, I<'r. Shilts stressed that the an­agreed that rhe news was taken
Philip Faccenda. Acting Vice 
president in 1970-71 l and Chris and the number of former Badin nouncement had not been well. He said many Breen-PhillipsPresident for Student Affairs, Fr. 
Singleton. They worked hard to and Walsh residents. Farley has demoralizing to his residents, a resident. "are interested inAndv Ciferni. Asst. Rector of Holy make Farley a hell of a good hall." the largest number of former possibility which had been cited by moving into the towers, since most Cross Hall. Fr. James Riehle, The determining factor in the Walsh resident of the four halls the Provost. Fr. Burtchaell as a of us are used to living on the north 
Dean of Students, and Chris 
sel(•ction of Farley was apparently considered. With women in Farley reason to withhold the an-quad. -----------·--------------------------------­


Mid-Winter Savings Event! 
This annual cleGrance is an excellent opportunity to make substantial savings on top quality, university styled, famous make apparel. The selection is at its peak, plan to buy now. All items are from our regular stock. 
Save as much as One-Half 

Jackets & CPO' s a good choice of patterns lf4 1/3 112 
Sweaters & Shirts a select group of $2o, $22 and $23 
and styles values now priced at only ... $14.90 

Sweaters & Shirts a special group of popular $11.90 Sweaters Turtlenecks, crews, convertiblesstyles, values to $22 and others, values to $15 $9.90 Shirts & Tops Choose cotton suedes, denims, 
ranvas, cords and more, values to 112 Off Bike Stuff By Robert Bruce, sweaters, pants, 

$9.90

$22 tops, in a variety of colors and styles, to $15Cut 'n' Sewn Shirts A very special group of the latest 2 for $9 
Sub Coats a good selection of fur collars cords
styles, Wallace Berrys and more. 
nylon quilted, plaids and others j
$4.97 each. 1 1/ 
4 3 1/ 2

Flannel Shirts In a choice of the latest patterns $4.50 
Shirts
regularly $6 Cut & sewn long sleeve styles, regularly $15 $9.90 

Sport Coats Double Knit Suits A good selection of Famous Make Slacks 
popular coats
With 2-trousers for sport Warm Knit polyesteror dress 
cords regular $15



1/3-1/4 OFF

SAVE 1/4 

1/3 OFF Pay Next Summer .... 
.•.. No Service Charge 
pay one-third in June, one-third in No interest or carrying charge added to July, one-third in August. your account 
ON THE CAMPUS . ~ . NOTRE DAME 
--------------------.-----------------------------­
the observer Thursday, January 18, 1973
6 

ND shatters Marquette's streak 
Kansas, DePaul victories brighten Christmas basketball slate 

by Vic Dorr 

''1' m not foolish enough to think it'll go on forever. We've been on lhC' merry-go-round now for five or six years... " ---Marquette coach AI McGuire 
"11<>11 no. 1 don't think we IC'am<>d a thing from the loss. Only fools learn by losing ... " ----Marquette coach AI McGuire 
Tlw statements are so different in lorw they could easily have been mad(• by difrerent men. And, in a st•nse. they were made by different nwn. 1\larquette's AI McGuire made his rm•rry-go-round com­llll'nl far in advance or the '72-'73 basketball season, when his Warriors were in the midst of an Bl gaml' winning streak in the 
Milwaukee  Arena,  their  home  
court.  
l\ld:uire  made  the  second  

n•mark last Saturd<:y, minutes aftl'r Digger Phelps, Dwight Clay, and Notre Dame had handed the Warriors a stunning 71-69 defeat, 1\larquette's first home loss since l\lfi7. The setback was also Marquette's first after II victories this season. But it was Notre Damp's third straight triumph ­and l'ourth in ten games -and, like virtually all of ND's cage outings this season. the game was a thriller_ 
Nl'ithersquad -was able to mount mon· than a four point spread during the first half. Four unanswered baskets by Gary Brokaw gave the Irish a 26-22 lead with 1\:07 left in the initial period, hut the Warriors quickly erased that eushion and a 6-0 spurt during tht• last five minutes of the half sent Marquette off at intermission with a :!3-29 advantage. 
Two-pointers by Maurice Lucas nnd L:trry McNeill made it 37-29 early in the second half, and the Warriors made a strong move to pull away midway through the period. when they opened up a 50­.JO bulge with 13:09 remaining. 
But the home team couldn't hold its lead -the largest either team 
Parly lo-o deficit to do it. Early Cary Brokaw's two free throws
Notre Dame 72 De Paul 67 
scoring by Pete Crotty wiped out movt>d the Irish into a 31-29 lead.Tht• Irish downed the Blue Dt>Paul's big margin, but the 
lll•mons, 72-67, at DePaul's Alumni Demons held their lead until the Notre Dame led by four at the 
llalL hut they had to overcome an 1-l:OO mark of the first half, when haiL -to;:lli. and De Paul was able to rl'ga in the upper hand (51-49 with II :-12 left (()nlv once in the second 


The Irish Eye 

::::::::::::::::::::They're playing ball again at the Convo 
The walls of "Diggt:r" Phelps office are adorned with sundry plaques and memorabilia that he has accumulated during his brief, but brilliant, 
eoaching eareer. Appropriately, there's a shovel, and a few momentoes from the 1\170-71 season when he stunned the basketball world by com­piling a 21i-3 record with an unheralded Fordham club and was the Coach of the Year by the New York Basketball Writers Association. 
This wt•ek, Phelps added a new item to the "modern basketball'' office 'deeor. It's not much to look at, merely the framed diagram of a hastily scrawled play. but it means a great deal to Phelps. 
"Digger" sketched that play durign a timeout with just IO seconds remining in the game between his Fighting Irish and Marquette last Saturday in the Milwaukee Arena. The score was tied, 69-69, and a Notre Dame basket would mean the end of the third-ranked Warriors' lll-game, home court winning streak. 
"That's the original," Phelps says with obvious pleasure. 'That's the play that we used to beat Marquette." "We were looking to get the hall inbounds," Phelps explained, "and we set the play up to get the ball to "Broke" <Gary Brokaw) or <Dwight) 
Clay and have them go one-on-one with their man. "Shue" (John second~. left._ and Gary Novak Shumate) was to roll underneath for a possible rebound and the other two tossed rn a lO-t ooter at the first half players were to go to the board." buzzer to give the Irish a 35-33 lead 
'The play •worked perfectly, Clay received a pass in time to work free at the break. Notre Dame's lead about 10-15 feet from the basket along the baseline and flip a perfect jump stood up through much of the shot ~wishing through the net with two seconds left to play. ~econd ~a!~. but it took John 
"I lined up behind "Shue", who was standing on the foul line," Clay Shumate-~ _tollow sh?t with five said. After "Slihk'·' <Don Silinskil took the inbounds pass from (Garyl seconds lrlt rn r~gulahon ("I just Novak. I ran my man into "Shue" and broke toward the sidelines. The pr~tyed to God It would go in," he 
When the final horn went off, Pehlps and his jubilant players bounded \\'ith 20 p~ints h~t ju~ps:onng 
play was designed to get the ball to either "Broke" or me and I figured I'd sard l.  to  send  the  game  into  
get it l,>ecause they'd been overplaying Gary. When I received the pass I overtrme.  
faked. saw daylight toward the base line, and shot."  Brokaw  who 1 d NO'  ·  

a out onto the court and into each other's arms. That moment of joy was minute into the OT perio/ on~ worth all the disappointments and frustrations that have surrounded Clav hit four free throws with_an Notre Dame basketball since Phelps replaced the retiring Johhny Dee · 111 a last season. 
Taking over a team that had lost its top seven players through graduation, its captain after a tragic accident and the top freshman prospect because of a leg ailment, Phelps faced one of the nation's 

THE RED DOOR CLUB toughest schedules with a handful of mediocre, inexperienced ballplayers. Winning just six of 26 games, they were short on talent but 

says Welcome Back! never lacked hustle or desire. They almost pulled off a couple of upsets, but always fell short. 

JOIN US THIS WEEKEND
This season, Phelps opened the year with four sophomores in the starting lineup. They had talent, but inexperience hurt them and they 

*Live Entertainment 
had a penchant for letting leads slip away and losing close games. 

*Beer * Wine * Liquor*
After a bitter, two~point defeat to Indiana, a team which had humiliated 

t•njoyed. A free throw by 6-9 John Notre Dame the previous year 94-29, Phelps remarked, "It's tough to lose Shumate, a steal-and-score layup so many close ones. But this is a Notre Dame team-we won't quit." 
~-New Memberships Available 
by Brokaw. a technical free throw They didn't quit, and, in the first game of 1973, the Irish won a close one, (on Coach McGuire) by Brokaw, t>dging Kansas, 66-64, in overtime. Then came a 72-67 win at DePaul and, ------------------------------i 
and a second charity conversion by two days, later, the upset of Marquette. Shumate pulled the Irish to within "I was so happy for the kids -beating the number three team in the five at 50-45. Moments later, country is a real feather in their hats," Phelps said. "After so many "Shue", triggered another ND frustrations. we finally got a big victory." spurt by dropping in an inside "We've turned a corner now. We're tiring of losing the close ones. basket. Brokaw followed with a We're better than a 4-6 team." pair of jumpers, and the Irish Although the victory over Marquette was the most impressive of the trailed by one, 52-51, with 9:47 season. the Irish have a tendency to credit their win over Kansas as being 
"left. Notre Dame began its the most important. game-winning push with just over "I thought we had to get over a hump," Gar Novak, a junior and last three minutes to play. Gary year's leading scorer. "We had lost so many close ones that when we Novak's jumper <goal tending), finally ~on one: a.gainst ~ansas, we becam~ a lot more c?nfident." . Brokaw's three-point play from the The Irtsh exhtbtted thetr newly found pmse and confidence last mght top of the circle, and tip-ins by against a hot-shooting Pittsburgh quintet. Despite trailing by seven points Novak and Shumate tied the game with 35 seconds left, Notre Dame kept hustling and pulled out a near­at 65 with 2:20 remaining. Apair of miraculous overtime victory. 
free throws by Marquette's George ~a_tch ~~t bas~et~all worl~! . . _ . Frazier and a bucket by Brokaw · Dtgger and hts ktds are wmmng the close ones and the Ftghtmg Insh left it knotted at 67, and Clay sunk are a basketball team to be reckoned with once again. 
a pair of free throws with I:08 left to give ND its first lead 69-67. 
McNeill's short jumper tied it for the last time with 35 seconds to play, and set the stage for Clay's game-winner, a baseline jump shot with four seconds showing. 
"I faked <Allie) McGuire to the inside," said Clay. "I felt sure if I got to the baseline I could make it. l I didn't do too much the whole I game, but when I faked him toward the foul line the shot was there. It was the best one I ever made."
I 

I 
The victory over Marquette capped NO's holiday schedule, a 
schedule which saw Digger
I 

Phelps' team play .500 basketball
•I with three wins and three losses. The wins came in the last three
I 

I 
games on the holiday slate, and NO's other victims were DePaul 
and Kansas. 
t 



HAIR NEED SHAPING UP 

We solve long hoi,.~'/
-

half Brokaw canned two more fn•t• throws to give the Irish a 57-51 l'dgt• with 5:29 remaining. and the Irish wen• able to protect their lt>ad. sinking four insurance free lhrows during the last 90 seconds. 
Brokaw lt>d NO with 21 points, and Novak followt>d with 17. 
NotrC' Dame 66 Kansas 64 (OT) 
ND began its win string with a fi!i-64 overtime victory against the Kansas Jayhawks. The game was ll'lt>vised through much of the eountry and it saw the Irish cap an uphill eontest by hitting clutch shots to end both halves of n•gulation play. 
K_ansas led nearly the entire first halt· bu~ two free throws by Brokaw !red the score at 33 with IB span of 12 seconds to ice the win for lht> Irish . Kll's Wilson Barrow l'ompleted the scoring with a th poing play. 

Nolr<' Dame 6.1 Kentucky 65 
ND's holiday luck was not all 
good.  howt>ver.  Against  Ken­ 
lucky.  the  Irish  forged  a  3:7-35  
halftimt•  lead  on  Clay's  late  

jumper. but still ended up on the short Pnd of a li5-63 score. The 5-10 <'lay paced the Irish scorers with 20 points, Don Silinski had 13, and Shumate 12. 
NotrC' Dame 56 UCLA 82 
Against liCLA. Notre Da didn't have to eontend with a heart­hr·t·~tking fi~ish. The defending natrona! trtlrsts led at half, 39-27, and won comfortably. 82-56. Keith Wilkes lt>d the Bruins with IB points, and Shumate paced the Irish \\'ith 18. 
Notr(' Dam(' 67 Indiana 69 
Tlw Irish did find themselves the short end of vet another dt>eision against r'ndiana. Ahead tht· hall', :!9-30, and ahead with 12: lt>ft. 51.40, NO saw the Hoosiers to within one-with less tha minute to play-on two free b~· Slt>ve Downing. Joh Laskowski hit the front end of bonus foul to tie the game at with II seconds left. and Downing sunk a follow shot to w Brokaw led all scorers with points. 
RENT A PINTO\ 
115A DA~ Sct:A MILEJ 

CRAIG KAPSON .............__ or LOIS TRANTER JORDON MOTORS 
For students and lacully 21 and ove1 



IllRENT·A·CARI
295·1981 
f 
Thursday, January 18, 1973 the observer 

7 
•

leers w1n 5 straight WCHA tilts 
by Greg Corgan shot off the stick of Bumbacco Forum. B.C. took a 3-0 lead before narrowed the gap to a single goal. 
N.D. 8 Denver 6
providing the game-winning goal scores by Curry and Regan The Billikens added two more 

The new year brought welcome relief to coach Lefty Smith's Notre Dame hockey team. After an unsuccessful · attempt to retain their E.C.A.C. Holiday Tour­nament title and a thorough ~hellacking at the hands of Boston College. the Irish returned to more pleasant surroundings in the \\'<•stern Collegiate Hockey Association. With that December \lth trouncing of Denver only a nwmorv. the skaters swept a pair of 1\ro'-point conference games from Michigan and Colorado Collt•ge. 
N.D. ll Colorado College .J 
Notre Dame blasted off to 
a quick awesome display of of­
fensive power in the opening game 
of tlw series. Dave Howe got 
things going with a goal just 15 
seconds into the game. The Tigers 
tied it up shortly after. but Larry 
Israelson. !lowe. and Pat Conroy 
all tallied. and the rest was icing on 
tlw cake. 
Ian Williams and Israelson 
sl·ored in the second period, and. 
after c.r. got their second score, 
l'aul Hegan added another marker 
to make it ti-2. The clubs ex­
changed goals in the final session. 
with .John Noble registering the 
final Irish tall~·. 
N.D. ll Colorado College 6 
Larrv Israelson. Les Larson. and 
Pat Conroy gave the Irish an early 
:1-1 lt•ad after the first period. but 
tlw Tigers came back to tie it in the 
·ond on goals by Allen and 
Bertsch. Dave Ho~·e then coun­
ten•d with his third tally in two 
ganws. an unassisted effort at 8:16 
of the second stanza that put 
'otre Dame ahead to stav. 
Eddi(' Bumhacco added two 
nore goals in the same session 
wforl' Colorado opened the third 
•rind with a quick score. Ray Lon·nzi notched N.D.'s seventh 
l. hut once more the Tigers to be gunned down. staging 
comeback that narrowed the margin to 7-6. Steve Curry put it out of reach. though. when he scored with a little over eleven minutes remaining. and the Irish finished with an impressive weekend showing. 
N.D. 3 Michigan 2 
A tough battle opened the series in Ann Arbor with a 35-foot slap 
WANTED 

Need ride to Ball State Fri. Jan. 
19. Call Ken 3679. 
Need to hire students as readers. 
For information and interview call Marc at 8539. 
Wanted: 1or 2 persons interested in occupying a large,·attractive house near campus. Call Alana 234-9535 or Phil 283-6721. 
Need 2 or 3 UCLA tickets. Thanks. Kevin 1329. 
Part -time babysitter needed for five-month-old girl. References requested. Must provide own transportation. Cc.li 288-9892 or 6619. 
STUDENT TO DISTRIBUTE VERY UNUSUAL COMPUTER DATING FORMS. $400$600 mo. Write BOX 508. BOUL•'[R. COLO 
late in the second period. Both teams played tough defense in the final session. and the Irish held on to start a four-game winning streak. Conroy and DeLorenzi notched the other N.D. markers. 
narrowed the margin to a goal. Tlw Fighting Eagles quickly took control again though, rattling off five straight tallies to seal the \'erdict. Noble and Dave Howe clicked for goals in the final period to dose the Irish scoring. 






OBSERVER. 
SPORTS 
N.D. 4 Michigan 3 
This victory proved to be one of the brightest during the semester bn•ak. Notre Dame was trailing. 3­
o. entering the third period when coach Smith put Ian Williams on right wing with Bumbacco and NobiP l'or some added scoring punch. The strategy worked so wdl that all three notched final Sl'ssion goals to tie the game. IkfensPman Bill Nyrop then fired home the winning score to give the Irish a season sweep with 1\lil'higan. 
Czechs 12 N.D. 5 Tlw "exhi bi tion" with the ( 'zl•chosloYakian Nationals drew onI\' I ,-l\12 l'ans to the ACC Ice Rink, tho~tgh those welcome rew were rewarded with two periods of outstanding hockey. Bill (;reen's second goal of the ~eason kept the Irish within one at tlw. end of the opening session. l h'Lon•nzi and Hie Schafer then hoost('d Notre Dame into the lead. hut a pair of Czech power-play goals put the Europeans back on top. 4-:1, entering the final period. trnfortunatelv. the Czechs didn't ~top there as· they unloaded an almost unbelievable eight-goal barrage in that last twenty minutes to squelch any hopes of an upset. Bumbacco clicked for a pair of lamplighters to cap the Irish attack. 
Boston College II N.D. 4 
The eastern swing took a turn for the worse in the Eagles' McHu h 
REGAL NOTES 
UNDERSTAND PLAYS, NOVELS AND POEMS FASTER WITH OUR NOTES We're new and we're the bigest! Thousands of topics reviewed for quicker understanding. Our subjects include nat only English, but Anthro­pology, Art, Black Studies, Ecology, Eca­
nomtcs, Education, History, Law, Music, 
Philosophy, Political Science, Psychology, Rei igion, Science, Sociology and Urban Prob­
lems.  Send $2 for your catalog of topics avail­ 
obi.,.  
REGAL  NOTES  
3160  "0" Street,  N.W.  
Washington, D. C.  20007  
Telephone:  202-333-0201  


CLASSIFIED ADS 
NOTICES 
Ec.rn Top Money! Part time promoting student travel. Call or write: The American Student Travel Center. 330 East 91st St., Suite 3F, New York, N.Y. 10028. (212) 831-9057. 
Members of the Advanced Student Affairs Committee will be at. LewisHaii,Thursday7:30pm 
Tonight. to discuss and receive suggestions regarding the new Disciplinary Code and Appeal Procedure for all graduate students. All Grads Welcome! 
FOR SALE 
Car for sale: 64 Dodge wagon custom 880 Excellent running condition. Good body. $350. 234­7794. 
1ennis & Sports equipment at tiiscount prices-limited supply 01 Ad;d'IS tennis shoes. Chris !Af,J. 
• 
\ 
--·---' 
'.,, •' .. 
scores to take a comfortable 4-1 Pioneer goalie Ron Grahame lead into the closing period, but had to wonder if it was the same 
N.D. bounced back to within one on Notre Dame team he'd seen only a goals by Bumbacco and Conroy night before. In what could be the \\·ith six minutes to play. That big finest period of Irish hockey this tying goal just wouldn't go in. season. Smith's skaters ran away though. and an empty net Billiken to a 5-0 lead before Denver knew score i~ the closing sec~mds sent, what had hit them. Three goals 
N.D. 8 St. Lawrence 5 

The opening game of the I<:C.A.C. tourney saw Smith's ~kat(•rs end a 12-game losing streak on the road. The Larries matched first period goals by Stt•ve Curry and Bill Nyrop. Bumbacco sent the Irish back ahead at :~-2. but St. Lawrence bounced back again to knot the ~core after two stanzas. 
Notre Dame wrapped things up in the final session. though. out­shooting the Larries, 38-18. Bumbacro negated another St. l.awr('nce score that kept the game tiPd. hut Noble popped in a lll'l .orenzi rebound to put the Irish alwad to stay. Bumbacco followed by complet(ng his hat trick, and Hq:!;an and freshman Pat Novitzki 
added late period scores \otre Dame in the finals.  to  put  
St.  Louis 5 N.D. 3  
Notre  Dame  returned  to  the  

.1\ladison Square Garden tourney as lhP defending champion and the first \\'Pstern team ever to take the title. In the finals, they faced the Sl. Louis Billikens, the red-hot Central Collegiate Hockey Association leaders and winners of llwir last ten games. 
St. I .ouis jumped off to an early :Hl lead before John Noble 


rent 


ONLY 

thP wmners home with ever-stronger hopes of an NCAA playoff berth. 
Denver 5 N.D. 2 
A miserable six-game losing streak in contests with the Pioneers was extended another notch before a disappointing crowd of less than 2,000 in massive Chicago Stadium. Denver ran away to a 5-0 lead after two periods before the Irish were able to avoid a whitewash via goals from John 1\oble and Larry Israels9n in the last session. 
\\'t're of the power-play variety. \\'ith Ian Williams scoring two and Noble the other. Bill Green and Hay DeLorenzi also beat the Pioneer netminder in the opening session. 
Ed Ha~·s got Denver on the board in the second period. but Bum­hacco and Paul Regan promptly made it 7-1. and the rest was anti­climactic. Though the Pioneers managed five more scores. DeLorenzi added his second of the game to cap a big Notre Dame \'ictory. 

ADO~ZE~~ HA~LELUJA'rf! 
IMarjoe is iJoth electritying pop ' 1 
art and savage Si.lciology. A I
razzle-dazzle feature. 
1 
I 
1 
Giie ol tiie mosi Enjrauniinary 
u;!rJ compeliing non-· fiction 

moVIt;S ever made. 
Move over P.1ick Jagge1. 
!'(; 





a refrigerator 
' 

I' 
$25 
FOR FREE DELIVERY 

FOR THE SEMESTER 


283-1553 

sponsored by 
APO profits will be donated to 

ALPHA PHI OMEGA & THE STUDENT UNION 
Sister Marita Day School

Of NOTRE DAME 
I I'' '-• '". • ,''
.: . ... .( .. ' ...... ~ .. ... . .. "' .. .. . . . . . 
t' l ... !'' •• 4 •
. . .. 



call now 

.. 
-----------------~-­
8 

the observer Thursday, January 18, 1973 
Mr. C. and Mr. B. give Irish thrilling OT win over Pitt 
by Vic Dorr 
Turnabouts, -they say, are fair play. 
And last night, at the expense of the University of Pittsburgh's varsitv basketball team, Coach I>iggl;r Phelps' Fighting Irish continued their own stunning, crowd-pleasing turnabout. 
The Irish eagers did it by coming from live points down with 32 seconds left in regulation to tie the !'anthers. and they completed thPir feat by blitzing Pitt in ovl•rtime. 11-2, to gain an 85-76 triumph. 
Thl' biggest names for the Irish, who arP now 5-6 on the season. \ll're Dwight Clay and Gary Brokaw. and the two sophomores played virtually the same roles thPy played in last Saturday's upst•t of Marquette. Clay sent the contest 'into ovPrtime with a long­distance jump shot four seconds from thP end of regulation time, and Brokaw kept the Irish in the gamP throughout, scoring 26 points-six of them during the extra pt•riod. 
BPfore Clay and Brokaw could work their late heroics, however, Notre Dame had to battle from far behind. The Irish found them­selves down at half. 46-33, and Phelps' squad was bedeviled throughout the first 20 minutes by Pitt's torrid outside shooting. The Panthers shot 63 per cent during the initial period, and the chief antagonists were forward Bill Knight <22 points during the first half. 33 overall) and guard Kirk Bruce <10 points in the first half>. 

And not until the midway point of the. second half did ND finally make a move to overtake the Panthers. Gary Novak's tip in with 7:26 remaining pulled the Irish to within three, 59-56, but the Panthers eased out of that jam on an answering tip-in by 6-10 Lucius Keese and a three-point play by Knight. 
The Irish made a second threatening move with just over five minutes remaining. A follow shot by John Shumate, two buckets by Brokaw, a Don Silinski free throw and a tip in by Novak all went unanswered, and the Pitt margin was cut to one, 66-65, with 
3:40 left. 
But again the Panthers pulled away. Layups by Bill Sulkowski and Keith Starr put the visitors back up by five, and the five-point spread stood up until the 0:32 mark, when Shumate completed a three-point play to make it 74-70, Pitt. The Irish center tossed in a short jumper 12 seconds later to cut Pitt's lead to two, and on the Pnsuing inbounds pass--a full-court throw--NO's Pete Crotty was tied up by Pittsburgh's Sulkowski. 
C'rotty controlled the tip-off, and Shumate grabbed the ball and fed an outlet pass to Clay at midcourt. Clay drove down the left side-line, made a slight move towards the basket. and pulled up for a jump shot when he was still some 25 feet away. The shot swished with 0:04 Jpft, and Pitt was unable to do anything in the time remaining. 
"We didn't have anything set up." admitted Clay. "It was just a break. Shue got me a pass at half court. and I just wanted to get upcourt as fast as I could. I went to the side of the key and jst shot it up." 
Bill Sulkowski gave Pitt its last lead of the game when he scored from the top of the key two-and-a­half minutes into the overtime period. But Brokaw knotted it with a layup 20 seconds later. and then hit a string of three straight foul shots to give the Irish a 79-76 lead, their first lead of the night. Single free throws by 'Crotty, Brokaw, and Shumate. and a pair by Clay-­all during the last minute of play-­put the game away for ND. · 
"We wanted to run, and we wanted to beat them on the hoards." said Brokaw, as he ex­plained the Irish game plan. "We W<mted to contain Knight, and I think we did a better job of that in the second half. We also wanted to last break against them, but they were giving us to hard a time off the boards. 
"The game did get me down once," he admitted, "when we closed to within two there and thl'n they got us down by eight again <lili-58, with 5:10 left). But when we got our next basket. I knew we were still in it." 
The Irish had double-figure 
--~----~ 

PC?te Crotty and Bill Sulkowski go up for the game-deciding tip-off. Crotty controlled the ball, and the Irish converted it into a game-tying shot. 
rebounding with 14 caroms. Kirk Bruce (14) and Bill Sulkowski scoring efforts from Brokaw, Clay (10) joined Knight in doubTe <10), Shumate <24), and Novak figures for the Panthers, whose < I:ll, and Shumate paced NO's record is now 5-9. 
1n Orange Bowl

Irish redfaced • 
by Jim Donaldson Sportf. Editor 
Notre Dame's first football game of 1973 A.D. <after Davis?) was the worst New Year's disaster since the Coconut Grove burned in Boston some years ago. 
Treating the Fighting Irish like a second division Ivy League club, Nebraska's awesome Cornhuskers rang in the New Year by ringing Notre Dame's bell to the tune of 40-6 in the 39th Orange Bowl. 
Although Johnny Rodgers had two broken ribs and a virus, the 5'9", 173­pound Heisman Trophy winner made the Irish look by scoring four touchdowns, passing for another score, rushing for 81 yards in 15 carries and making three pass receptions for 71 yards. After a showing like that, only Thomas could doubt that Rodgers was the nation's outstanding football player. While Rodgers wove through the Irish defense like a reckless driver in the New Year's traffic on Collins Avenue, Nebraska middle guard Rich Glover, the nation's top defensive performer, and his 

... 
.. 
mates narrowly missed pinning the first shutout on Notre Dame since November of 1967. 
The resounding triumph marked a fitting end to the coaching career of Nebraska's Bob Devaney who, in his 11 years as head coach of the 'Huskers. won a pair of national championships 0970 and '71) seven Big Eight titles, and took his team to a bowl game nine times. 
"It's so much better to go away a winner," Devaney remarked, which is like saying that Rodgers played a good game. 
For Irish coach Ara Parseghian, the embarassing defeat marked the low point of his nine years at Notre Dame. Obviously hurt and disap­pointed by his club's poor performance, Parseghian commented, "There was no comparison between the two teams on the field tonight, but I'm offering no excuses. Nebraska was an excellently prepared football team. They played an outstanding game. Their attitude and their execution was super. We have nothing but respect and pr~Jse for them. They just did a heck of a job." 
The Cornhuskers amassed 560 yards in total offense, 300 rushing and 260 passing, while posting their third successive Orange Bowl triumph· and handing Notre Dame its worst beating in "the era of Ara". 
Nebraska decided things early, marching 76 yards for a touchdown <Rodgers going eight yards for the score) after receiving the opening kickoff and turning back two good Irish scoring opportunities in the first quarter. 
Notre Dame almost matched the 'Huskers' touchdown on its first possession but. after penetrating the Nebraska 29, the drive stalled and 52-yard field goal attempt by Bob Thomas fell short. 
Late in the quarter, Tim Sullivan recovered a Nebraska fumble only 24 yards from the goal line but the Irish lost 15 yards in the next three plays and had to punt. Thereafter, Nebraska was in complete control. 
An 80 yard drive, spiced by a 36-yard run by Gary Dixon and a 20-yard David Humm to Bob Revelle pass, gave the Cornhuskers a 14-0 lead early in the second quarter. 
Nebraska quickly added to its lead taking possession at the Irish 48 after a punt, Humm lateraled to Rodgers, who stunned theN. D. defense by lofting a pass to Frosty Anderson, all alone behind the secondary. Anderson took Rodgers' perfect pass at the 13 and romped to paydirt. That was the old ball game. 
Rodgers ran for three touchdowns in the third quarter, scoring on runs of four and five yards and on a 50-yard screen pass and run which left enough Irish lying around to remind one of a bar late on St. Patrick's Day . 
Notre Dame salvaged some measure of pride by getting on the socreboard early in the final quarter. Tom Clements and Pete Dem­merle, a familiar combination during the 1971 freshman season, capped a 73-yard drive with a five-yard scoring pass. But that was it for the Irish. 
During a post-game interview in the Notre Dame locker room, a newsman irked Parseghian by asking if, because of their poor showing, the Irish might revert back to a no-bowl policy. Parseghian hesitated a moment, trying to control his temper, then snapped, "I don't see how you can ask such a thing. I would suggest to you that it would be just the opposite. That we would want to come back and prove we are a better team than we looked tonight." 
Defensive back Mike Townsend, Notre Dame's co-captain-elect, who set an Irish record in 1972 by intercepting 10 passes and swiped another against Nebraska, summed up the squad's feelings when he said, "It was embarassing. But we're better than what people saw on that scoreboard tonight. Nebraska played a hell of a good game. Everything they did was right and everything we did was wrong." 
"Next year is going to be tremendous for us," he continued. "We don't lose many players and we have great replacements for ones we lose." But it's going to bela1long wait until next year for Parseghian and the IriSh. 



