On The Inside 
candidates handle ballots ... page 4 
Sports ... page 7 & 8 
Vol. VII No. 90 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Wednesday, February 28, 1973 


Faccenda: "Fr. Riehle and I believe we can keep el'eryone on campus that wants to be." 
Faccenda speaks 
to HPC, rectors on 


cainpus housing 
by Tom Drape and Jim Eder Staff Reporters 

Aeting Director of Student Affairs Dr. Philip Fac­eenda and Director of Housing Fr. James Riehle met with the Hall Presidents and rectors, and with some 60 students in separate sessions last night to discuss the on and off campus housing situations. 
At the HPC and rectors meeting Faccenda turned dovm the HPC proposal to use the• Psychology Building, Carroll or Bronson Halls for undergraduate housing. Ill' said the Psychology Building was financially prohibitive. and that the graduate halls could not be secured in time. 
At the student meeting in Stepan Center he said the use of these halls. a St. Mary's hall, or one of the CSC rf'sidences were options if he could "Possibly pull one of these between now and the end of the year." He asked that students let him handle negotiations with SMC'. and said that another institution made an offer of room space Monday. He did not identify the in­stitution. 
The HPC meeting was concerned primarily with the off campus situation, while the small Stepan Center group sought motives for the decision to force students off campus. and options to remain on campus. 
According to Faccenda comments in Stepan Center, there will be 5100 beds for 6600 unde.rgraduates. During the last few years, there ha~: been ap­proximately 1,400off campus students, but preliminary surveys indicated that only 300 want to move off next vf'ar. · "We are trying to get a decision made now instead of Oetober so that there won't be a shortage," he said. "Fr. Riehle and I believe we can keep everyone on eampus that wants to be," he added. 
In reply to questions regarding specific procedures for students who want to stay on campus but draw losing numbers in their hall lottery, Faccenda said they should get their names on the hall waiting list. A llniversity waiting list will then be compiled by Fr. Biehle. 
"If we can get the figures down to 200 or 300, then o\'er th<' summer we will work with you individually," i''accenda said. He emphasized that the University is not going to force overcrowding next year. The :llternative of voluntary overcrowding was offered. 
"Voluntary overcrowding on a room to room basis would he possible, but I can't say if the l Tniversity will adjust rent. That would be a business office decision." 
,\t thP HPC meeting Fr. Riehle said room rate ad­justmf'nts would be made. but the room cost of the "<•xtra man" will not be removed completely because <'xlra maintainence will be required. 
Concerning the off-campus situation, Fr. Riehle said lw had more listings than are now available, but the unlistf'd landlords refused to agree not to dis<;riminate against students. Faccenda told the Stepan ('('Iller nowd lw expPcled the off-campus situation to improve as mnr!' than 100 law students graduate this year. 
Faee(•ncta {'Xplained that South Bend rent controls :1n• difficult to enforce. but that he is "100 percent sure The llni\'ersitv could assist" in individual cases. 
Also und!'r. consideration are a food co-op and a shut tiP system. A pastoral-social center is also being in\'estigated by the Campus Ministry. 
II PC Chairman Fred Baranowski warned that future decisions concerning housing and student enrollment must take into account the fact that the average number of people who want to move off campus each year will be decreasing, "As more women come on campus, more men will want to stay." 
•

Sorge, Clarke meet lD SBP election final Thursday 
by Jim Gresser and Marline Zloza Staff Reporters 

Glenn Sorge and Juan Manigault finished first in yesterday's student body primary election and will face James Clarke and Chris Singleton in Thursday's general election. 3321 votes were cast representing 
53.5 percent of the total undergraduate enrollment. 
Sorge's "Incorporation" ticket received 761, or 22.9 percent of the votes cast. The Clarke ticket, planning to extensively reorganize Student Government, gar­nered 668 votes or 20.9 percent. The Mike Hess-Mike pavis •ticket. which drew 605 votes, or 18.25 percent, l'inishe'd third. All other candidates finished at least 300 \'oles behind the leaders. 
Kersten reacts 

Late last night. R. Calhoun Kersten, current Student Body President. and Dennis <H-manl Etienne, 
current Student Body Vice-President, released to The Observer a s·igned statement declaring their reactions to the election results. 
According to the statement, H-man nas been in touch with Kersten and they both authorize students to "vote a blank ballot. A vote for nothing is a vote for the oligarchy.'' 
Although Kersten could not be reached for an official ~tatement, it is reported that he has been approached by the Committee to Re-elect the President and is 
•·fasting over the matter in the desert." 
Winners suprised 

Sorge attributed their victory to the fact that "we're not a machine... our idea carried us." Manigault added. "We're surprised to finish number one, but we feel that the students realized what we had to say." The ticket plans to actively campaign today. 
Clarke said that he was "completely surprised. We figured on placing third." He said that he based his plan to give full authority to the HPC on Kersten's !'lection last year which demonstrated the attitude \ icwing Student Government as "unimportant." 
\Both of these candidates will debate tomorrow at 6:30 pm in Stanford Hall and at 11:00 pm in Dillon Hall. Kersten has also been invited to debate. 
Sorge assesses Kersten 

On Kersten's position. Sorge said, "He's kidding himself. He did a good job last year, he is no longer needed to prove his point." Sorge assesed Kersten's chances of winning by saying, "I'm not looking for that to happen. I don't expect it to." 
Sorge blasted Etienne's article that appeared in Monday's edition of The Observer. "The whole article is a bunch of gross misrepresentations. I am charging H-man with political corruption," Sorge said. 
Neither Clarke nor Singleton were availaqle for comments about Kersten's 1position. 
Other Candidates 

Ten other candidates finished below the top three. The Kubik-Mason ticket finished fourth with 286 votes, 
5.6 percent of the votes cast. Brennen-Tyrrell captured 177 votes for 5.3 percent. 
With 156 votes. 4.7 percent, Moskowitz-Clemency finished sixth. Wojcieszek-Wordal captured 123 votes, :l.7 percent, and placed seventh in the election. The remaining six candidates tallied less than 100 votes apiece. 5.3 percent or 176 votes were cast for write-in eandidates. 
Most of the losing candidates were willing to make statements and give their endorsements late Monday night. 
Losers switch endorsements 

Mike Hess first endorsed Clarke-Singleton over \VSND but after the Kersten intervention, he switched his endorsement to Kersten. He also res;~ned as Executive Co-ordinator of Student Government "to avoid claims that he seeks to preserve his office." 
IIPss' running-mate Mike Davis had no comment or 


Sorgl'. Manigault: "We're surprised to finish number one. but we feel that the students realized what we had to say." 
endorsement to announce last night. 
Matt Kubik and Gordon Mason both "endorsed the candidacy of Bob Kersten" and are members of the Committee to Re-elect the President. 
The Brennan-Tyrell team also endorsed Kersten's position. saying that he embodied their stand for nothingness. 
Joe Moskowitz gave the Sorge-Manigault ticket his endorsement over WSND shortly after the election results were announced. Later, however, he retracted that statement and endorsed "Bob Kersten for re­election as SBP." . 
Moskowitz's SBVP partner Bob Clemency chose to back Glen Sorge and Juan Manigault, adding "I don't think we neced another Kersten regime." 
Blake Wordal stated early in the evening over WSND that he and his .SBP running-mate Alice Wojcieszek 1wre endorsing Sorge-Manigault but later they changed to support the position of Kersten. 
il\1astro and Fenton released a joint statement en­
dorsing R. Calhoun, saying "the King is back."  
The  Gonzalez-Burke  ticket  was  unavaifable  for  
comment.  
Wesolowski and  Angeluzzi  stated  "the  Ride  the  

Cosmic Wave ticket backs Bob Kersten 100 percent." 
Hav Carlson and Tom Kastelic chose to endorse no :andldate and said that "although we are not happy ,,·ith the Plection results, we are also not happy with the K<•rsten intervention." 
The Galloway-Batow ticket urged support of Ker­sten. 
Don Nollet could not be reached but his running­mate Mike Goetz had "no comment and no en­dorsement." 
Sorge-Manigault carried six halls including Flanner, Dillon. Breen-Phillips, Stanford, Sarin and Fisher. An off-eampus student himself, Sorge lost the off-campus \'ole to Wesolowski. 
Clarke carried one more hall than Sorge including Lyons. Holy Cross, Cavanaugh, Pangborn, Farley, Old College and his home hall. Grace. . 
Mike Hess carried as many halls as Sorge but they were considerably smaller. . lkss-Davis carried Keenan. Zahm. Moreau Seminary. Morrissey and the two female dorms, Walsh and Badin. Hess' campaign headquarters were located in Badin. 
Matt Kubik took Howard, Alumni and St. Ed's. 

Singleton. Clarlw: plan to give full authority to HPC if l'lectert Thursday 
l 
1

Election board , 
, 1 1

rules on ballots 
1 
by Jerry Lutkus Editorial Editor 
Vifty percent plus one of the valid votes cast in 
lThursday's election will be necessary for a candidate ... 
to win the post of Student Body President was the 
df'cision resulting from over four hours of 'discussion 
and rulings late last night at LaFortune 3'tudent 
C<•nter. 
All write·in ballots will be considered invalid and not 
indudl.'d in the final tabulation. Blank ballots will be 
eonsidl.'r!'d abstentions and counted in the final totals. 
This action bv the Election Committee was the final 
move in a night of discussion that began four hours 
!'arlil'r w111.'n that committee ruled in a 5-4 vote that 
\ITill'·in ballots were valid. The vote came upon the 
romplPiion of Tuesday night's primary election vote 
Tabulation and was part of the committee's respon­
sibility of establishing the rules for the run-off election. 
An l'mergency meeting of the Board of Com­
missioners was called by Dennis Etienne. Student 
(continued on page .11 
• 

the observer Wednesday, February 28, 1973
2 

warld briefs 
(c) 1973 New York TimPR 
Response positive 
Party Service off to good start 
by Jtnt Lindsay Staff Reporter 

The student government Campus Party Service, initiated two weeks ago to lead party­hunting students to on and off­l'ampus open parttes, ts off to a promising start. according to the program's originator, student affairs director Walker Holloway. 
The party service. one phase of a general campus activity in­formation program. consists of a Lelephone service by which any group hosting an open party can have it publicized and any person 
huntingnn evening's entertainment can lw pointed in the right direc­tion. 
Although early response to the new service has been somewhat slow. reactions have all been
, 
' 
positive. according to Holloway. r "A lot of guys either just don't know about the service or they r 

~ SMC Rings
, 
SMC students who ordered their class rings can pick them up today 
[ from 4:00 to 5:00 in the Lemans lobby. The remainder of the payment for the ring is due when it is picked up. Only students rings ordered on November 30 will be availableJomorrow. 
f 
or LOIS TRANTER JORDON,MOTORS 
259-1981 
For llodenls and faculty 21 and OYer 

don't think it's on the level," he said. Assuring students that the program is "on the level", 
Walker pointed out that party hosts need not fear the service worsening an already imbalanced hoy-g1rl ratio. Onl~ girls are direetPd to guys' parties, and guys tp girls'. 
In addition to the direct IPit•phone connections. Holloway also spreads the word about \'arious parties through personal l'Ontacts at both St. Mary's and 

llo/loway: Party Sercie directs onl.v girls to guys' party. and guys In girls'. 
washington--The Administration reacted sharply to ~elay~ in ~he release of American Prisoners of War, and accused Hanot of v10latmg provisions of the Vietnam cease-fire agreement. Pr~sident Nixon ordered Secretary of State William P. Rogers at the Vtetnam Peace Conference in Paris "to demand clarification" from the North Viet­namese delegation "on the most ugent basis." 
Saigon--North Vietnamese Representatives here complained that the Vietnam cease-fire agreement was not working and refused to release a second contingent of American Prisoners of War or even to rliscuss the subject. They boycotted two meetings of the four-party joint military commission subcommittee on the question of prisoner exchanges. 
New Yori~--A $200,000 cash contribution was revealed to have been made to President Nixon's reelection campaign last April on behalf of Hobert L. Vesco. a financier then under a securities and exchange commission investigation, without the public disclosure required by law. The Nixon campaign committee said that the contribution had been t•eturned last Jan. 31 to Vesco along with $50,000 he had given at another time. 
Washington--The Supreme Court ruiPd that a suburban swimming dub cannot refuse to accept blacks who live in its immediate area if it gives a nwmbership preference to others living in the same neigh­
borhood. The decision was unanimous. 
NotrP Dam<'. 
"Students just don't know that their own word of mouth doesn't travel as far as they think it does," obsprved the student affairs director. 
llolloway also remarked t~a~ he lmnself often attends pubhcized parties and rates them so that he might be able to better direct future party-goers to the best locations. 
Any student seeking out or wishing to publicize a party can do so by calling Holloway at 7417. Information concerning locations and times of other current campus Pvents. from concerts to wrestling matches. can also be obtained at that number. 
Tfle Observer is published daily during ihe college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per 
•sernestet ($14 per year) from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana .46556. Second class poslage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
~6556. 
PAY NEXT SUMMER 
No service or carrying charge to pay 

1723 So•. Bend Ave.  Jim  -class of '63  
*TAPPERS IN STOCK*  Chuck  -cl~ss  of '65  
Call Ahead  272-9800  

FOR KEGS 
(Distillery T-Shirts on sale -$2.50) 
RED TAG BEER SPECIAL 
We will meet Any Locally Advertised Price *DISCOUNTS AVAILABLE* 


Our Mid-Winter Savings Event Continues.•. 
SLEEVELESS SWEATERS 
In a good choice of colors 
$• 
and patterns, $10 to $14 values... NOW 
6 90 

CORD FLARES 
A very famous maker, in a wide choice of colors.. $12 



$6.90 
values..... 
RIB KNIT BODY SHIRTS 
Choose from turtlenecks, 

lf2 OFF
round necks in popular colors. Stock up and save 
ON THE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAME 
an campu• today 
6:30pm --meeting, sailing club, 204 eng. bldg. 
7:30 
pm american scene lecture, "kids say the darndest things" by cappy gagnon, director of big brothers in st. joe country, carroll ha II, madeleva 

7:30 
--organizational meeting, handball club, 202 archy bldg. 8:00pm --basketball, nd vs. western mic;1igan, ace 8-10 pm --open house, smc art dept., students' art work, in art dept. 


9:00 pm --meeting, charismatic prayer meeting, holy cross hall, introduction to charismatic renewal, 8 pm, butler bldg. behind holy cross 8:oopm--lecture, "the future of the left", by michael harrington, author of "socialism", washington hall, free 


SMC Junior Class 
There will be a meeting with Dr. Henry 
When: Wednesday, February 28, 1973 
Time: 7 prn 
Where: Stapleton Lounge 
Topic: Abolishing Senior Comp, and other problems... 
More Info: Contact Von Stallworth 5700 


. ..... ~-. -... . . . . , . . , . . . . . . . ... . .. ....... ... 

, •, 'It' I .... , ... ~'"''"""····" .... lo I • '~ ~ ~,. t ": f•\'·~·,·<·(·-·\ . • " • " " .' ,' ,t. ,' ," .' .' .' •' ,' ," ,' ,' •' •' ,' •' •' l' ,... •" ... • • • a & t. a • • 4 .-• t. • • • t It t t ,. 6 t li 6 
1o I I 1. \, \. t. " • \ ' • ' ,. • "' • • • • ' • ~ ' ' 

Election committee a:ctive 
(continued from page 1) 
Government Provost to act upon 
the Election Committee's decision. 
The Commissioners voted on Fred 
Giuffrida's motionthat "the Board 
of Commissioners override the 
decision of the Election Committee 
and instruct them to invalidate all 
write-in ballots." 
The motion passed 7 t.o 1 with 
Etienne's vote in dissension. 
Commissioner Matt Cavanaugh 
claimed that "it's more the 
principle of the thing. The rules 
were set up one way and we 
shouldn't change them now." 
The constitutionality of the 
Board of Commissioners' move 
prompted Judicial Board Coor­
dinator Greg Smith to call the 
board to order. They ruled in a 5-2 
decision that the Board of Com­
missioners does have the con­
stitutional right to overrule the 
decision of the Election Com­
mittee. 
Claiming that he was "very 
sensitive" to drawing the Judicial 
Board into political matters, Smith 
attempted to withhold the board's 
decision for twenty-four hours. 
However. the board members 
voted otherwise. 
Smith noted that "there were two essential problems and we ruled on them. We acted as responsible citizens of Notre Dame regardless of any pressures from any StudentBodyoffices •." he said. He continued that "I saw a conflict between the executive and 
HOW ARE THINGS AT HOME? 


Long distance _still is the next best thing to being there. And you can save money by calling nights or weekends. 



@Indiana Bell 

the Board of Commissioners. I power they did not have called the Judicial Board because overruling the Election Com­they are the most responsible 
mittee. and that write-ins should 
people that I know who could solve be considered valid ballots. the problems." 
"The Board of Commissioners Smith emphasized the non­granted the Election Committee 
political nature of the board's the power to rule on the election decision by offering his resignation without review," Treanor claimed. 

if necessary to prove it. 

"Under the Constitution and under 
The Election Committee's case the rule they passed, they was presented in the Judicial using powerthat they don't have." Board by members T.C. Treanor Braye continued that "with the and Rod Braye. SLC Chairman fracturing of the vote, a large part
Fred Giuffrida spoke for the Board of what student government is, is of Commissioners. 
lost. The student body should be Treanor and Braye argued that given the option of voting for who 
the Board of Commissioners used a · (continued on page 5) 

SMC sponsers panel 
by David Kaminski mented .J(athleen Mullaney,-St. 
Staff Reporter 

Mary's Dean of Students, "is that it is the backbone of the social life 
St. Mary's College Dean of here. That's not such a problemStudents office sponsored a panel now. but ten years from now, when discussion on Alcoholism Monday your body isn't the same as it was night for the St. Mary's R.A.s ;lS in college, the alchohol habit could part of their in service training develop into something serious." 

program. Participants in the panel were Cathy Liesman, an R.A..

Dr. Mark Bambanek, Professor of LeMans, was one of about fifteenChemistry at St. Mary's, Mr. 

R.A.s who attended the discussion. 
George Lough, a counsellor at St. 
She said afterwards: M~ny's and his wife, Mrs. 

"To someone who knew nothingRosemary Lough, Coordinator of about alcoholism in the first place, the South Bend Alcoholism the panel was very informative.
Council. 

don't think the drinking problem at"The problem with alcohol at St. 
St. Mary's is more serious thanMary's and Notre Dame," com­
;;~nywhere else. 
Your average reading speed probably ranges befween 150 and 300 words per minute. Graduates of the Reading Dynamics course read and study at IEjtlst 3 to 6 times faster then that. And the average graduate of our course actually Improves com­
pretrension over 10 per cent. 
Thousands of college students are Reading Dynamics graduates, including over 1,000 at Notre Dame, Indiana Unlverstiy, and Purdue. This Is 1he same basic course that first received national recogniton whln President John F. Kennedy Invited Evelyl'l Wood to the White House to teach her system to top level staff personnel. Recently, 
President Nixon's staff took the Reading Dynamics ·course. • The best way to find out about the remarkable Reading Dynamics course Is to come to a free 
MINI-Lesson. Atthis you'IUearn what It's like to be able to read and study 3 to 6 times faster. You Will see c. short, enjoyable movie and have all your • questions answered. 

ATTEND 
A Free Speed Reading Lesson 
Increase your reading speed 
50 to 100% on the spot. 
Last Two Days This Week TODAY & TOMMORROW 
6 and 8 pm 
Seminar Rm. 202 
CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION 
NOTRE DAME AVENUE 
EVELYN WOOD READING DYNAMICS 

l 
1 




THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
John Abowd  Dan Thornton  
Editor-in-Chief  NEWS: 283-1715  Business Manager  
EDITORIALS: 283-8661  
Don Ruane  BUSINESS: 283-7471  Joe Butler  
Executive Editor  Advertising Manager  

Wedne~day, February 28, 1973 
Enough of this! 
The fireworks started this year after all the ballots were counted, and the final results announced making Jim Clarke and Glen Sorge the run-off candidates in this year's SBP election. 
, In the next five hours the defeated canidates endorsed and and subsequently retracted their endorsement of one of the 
~ 
r run-off candidates. r Now, all of these shananigans were not 
r 
without provocation: --at 9:45 pm in the main lobby of ~ LaFortune a member of the election com n, ittee announced the final results. ~ --at 10:50 pm Dennis (H-man) Etienne walked into the Observer office and 
'r r 
delivered a written statement declaring that he and Bob Kersten would enter the 
r run-off as write-in candidates. 
r --at 11:00 Election Committee chairman 
r P au! Dziedzic began polling the com­
r mittee to determine if it could allow 
r 
write-in votes in the run-off election. The r committee decided to allow write-ins.'r --at 11:30 the Board of Commissioners r convened an emergency meeting at 
~ 
which it overturned the Election Com­
r 
n ittee's ruling and declared that write­ins were invalid votes and a candidate need 50 percent plus one of the valid votes to win the election. --at 11:45 the Judicial Board was con­vened to rule on the constitutionality of the Board of Com missoners decision. --One hour, twenty minutes later the .Judicial Board upheld the action of the Board of Commissioners. --at 1: 15 Dziedzic announced that the Election Committee had declared blank ballots would be considered valid votes. --at 3:00 am Dennis (H-man) Etienne delivered a signed statement to The Observer withdrawing the Kersten-H­n an write-in campaign and substituting the blank ballot appeal. --at 3: 01 am the Editor-in-chief locked the door of the office, declaring "Enough of this bullshit." 
Now it is perfectly obvious that 
somebody doesn't like the results of the 
run-off election. 
It is further perfectly obvious that 
extremely elaborate means were taken to 
undermine the decision of the electorate. 
In a few more hours the voters' ballots 
themselves might have been ignored. 
It is finally perfectly obvious that the 
issue is far from dead. So much hap­
pened in five hours in LaFortune that it is 
virtually impossible to believe that more 
havoc will not shower on the campus in 
the next 24 hours. 
Bob Kersten and the current ad­
n'inistration are upset enough with the 
results that LaFortune literally swarmed 
with politicos until the wee hours of the 
morning plotting the overturn of the 
announced results. 
Nobody knows what anybody's next move will be. In fact, the whole rotten mess wreaks of the same distasteful "poobah" air that was the whipping boy of so many of the same people earlier in the week and earlier in the year. 

If the King is so upset over the results what he is willing to stand for re-election; then, he should say so point blank. None of these old in-again-out-again tricks. If his only purpose is to subject the campus to another Iection extravaganza on the same order as this last fiasco, the idea is genuinely repulsive. 
But who knows. It's getting harder everyday to tell who's a "poobah" and who's not. 
The Editorial Board 

(Because of the extreme fluidity of the <.'lection situation, The Observer has rroved its press time up three hours for Thursday's edition. This will allow us to report all of today's news before hallotting begins. Look for Thursday's The Observer at continental breakfast. ('d.) 
, I I IIlllUIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIWIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIOIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII I 

qarry trudeau
~ 
r 
r 
~ 
r 
the observer 

Night Editor: Jack Frischkorn Ass'! Night Editor: Sue Pren· cl!'rqiiSt Resodent Freak: Albert D'Antonio Illustrious Day Editor: Mary Eqan Typists: Diane Chermside, Howard Halle, John Flannigan, D,wid Rust Compugraphic: Bullet Pictureman: Jerome, Princeps Lucis Night Controller: Rob 'Loos' Barringer (hi rna, pa. Kathy and Mikel And v•rious and sundry ch•r•c­
ter• 



Far What lt!ls Warth 


Two candidates handled ballots 
dan ruane 

Two candidates ft,r Student Body President were allowed to have 
private possession of an undetermined number of ballots yesterday, 
one with the tacit approval of the election committee chairman Paul 
Dziedzic . 
. Jaml's "Zero" Brenim~took the original allotment of ballots for 
Fisher Hall as they were distributed yesterday morning in the Student 
(;overnment Cabinet office. According to Dziedzic, election com­
mittee ml'mber Rod Braye, who was in charge of coordinating Fisher 
and two other halls, told him was all right because Braye had a class 
and no one l'lse was available to carry the ballots. 
Thus Brennan was allowed to leave the office for Fisher Hiill with the ballots. It was certified, according to Braye, that all ballots were dean and the box empty before the election began. Brennan, by the way. was the Fisher Hall election chairman. 
At approximately 12:30 p.m. Tuesday, a call was placed to the 
Student (;ovl'rnment office from Keenan Hall requesting more 
ballots. This reporter was standing in the office when the secretary 
gave candidate Don Nollet a sealed envelope containing stack of 
ballots roughly one-half inch thick. Nollet left the office with the 
ballots. but without any supervision by the election committee. 
Howl'ver. a member of the Ombudsman's staff was with Nollet. 
Wlwn I questioned the ballot box monitors in Keenan Hall about 15 
minutes. later. they said the envelope arrived with Nollet and had not 
hePn opPned en route. But the question remains: Why were SBP 
eandidatPs allowed to handle the ballots, why was an undetermined 
number of ballots distributed to each hall, and why was the election 
committee so negligent in its duty? 
The l'lection committee has allowed the election to degenerate by 
allowing candidates to violate the rules it established, by not 
pl'Pparing its own role, and by hiding facts the students should know 
behind terms such as "trivial," and rationales such as "it was done in 
good faith." The election committee is naive. 
At the start of the campaign, the committee sought to establish a 
spirit of "fair play" among the candidates, according to Dziedzic. 
Only violationswherp it was obvious to the committee, 
that the candidates knew they would violate the rules and still went 
ahead and did so would merit public censorship. It would also depend 
on the severity of the offense. 
Removing all or partial credit at the Campus Press is a minor 
sanction, according to Dziedzic, which was applied to two candidates 
for violating the official campaign starting time. At least four can­
didates started campaigning eary, but only two were sanctioned. 
They wpre ·the Wesolowski ticket which ran a classified for the Cosmic 
Wave, and the Clark ticket which announced an unofficial meeting. In 
question are the Hess and Kubik tickets, which an· thought to have 
started early. 
Evidence is strong that they did, although it is only circumstantial. 
Hess's Pussycat was obviously tied to the poster about Nixon's secret 
••gent. The Pussycat sketch on the Hess campaign posters was pur­
chased from the Pussycat poster artist. Kubic had his slogan 
plastered all over campus on flyers announcing a "Huddle Ball' 
sponsored by the New Age of Decadence. These flyers appeared 
[)('fore the election started. 
Tlw only thing the election committee might cto right is check the 
rPcl'iptsof the Hess ticket. to be sure it didn't exceed the $150 limit. 
llowpver. if the Hess ticket fails to make the runoff, the investigation 
might be dropped. The committee didn't have time last night to check 
tlw rl'CPipts because it had to tally the votes. But it will meet 
tonight between 7 and 8 in the Student Government offices to hear 
complaints against any ticket, but against the two in the runoff in 
p;u·ticular. Dziedzic said. 
If no one complains about violations of which the committee is 
awar('. it is likely the violations will not be pressed uni('SS they were 
intenctl'd. and serious, Dziedzic said. 
Onp example is the Carlson ticket's violation of outside advertising. 
DPsigned to avoid littering the campus. the rule was violated when 
Carlson tried to dump literature from an airplane on the South Quad. 
llnwl'vPr. thewinctcarried it onto the golf course. This doesn't sound 
too sPrious. othPr than that the golf course is enclosed by a fence that 
will trap all that literature. But how about the idea of that plane 
having engine failure as it swooped low over the quad, and crashing 
into a dormitory or crowds of students on their wav to class or lunch? 
AnothPr case of election committee incompetence is the ballot distribution. B('sidPs not having the boxes ready until last night, the 
!i.OOO ballots wPre distributed to the halls in clumps, undetermined 
numbl'rs. This was done because the ballots were printed at the last 
m inutl' and no one was available to count them out Tuesday morning. 
Ballots were distributed in lots of 150 for the evening session of voting. 
En•n last night the election committee was working from an ar­bitrary systPm. If any discrepancy arose concerning a hall"s tally, random phone calls were to be made to those who were listed as ,·oting. If the calls didn't check out. the hall was thrown out. However, ctiscr('pancy was not defined. lt varied from hall to hall depending on siz('. and was in act:Jality a judgment call by the election committee. \\'lwn cto('S the mismatch between ballots cast and the number of ID numbers checked become a discrepancy. 
It was bad enough that the candidates were feeding the student body statements without factual support. outright lies, and poorly rl'searched plans for governmental reorganization; without the (')('ction committee allowing candidates to violate rules left and right without telling the students. Isn't it great that the student body may Plect a student body president whose character may be questionable? 
It doesn"t matter how trivial were the violations, that the election committee has chosen to ignore. Most of the sanctions it has pr('scribed cannot be pffectively be applied now. However, public l'l'nsure or judicial board action should be made against violators, and the names of those who have made trivial violations in good faith, should be revealed. Otherwise we can expect to see candidates in future (')ections, with no hope of winning, flagrantly violate rules without any sanction. This will lead to the same behavior by potential winners simply to stay in the race. And you think it's a joke now. 
When Dziedzic announced the election rules Feb. 13, he said, "Any rule we made is there because we're going to enforce it." I say that is ont> of the biggest loads ever dumped on this campus, unless we see some action. and hear an apology from the committee for its in­competence_ 

Wednesday, February 28, 1973 the observer 
5 


SBP Election Results 
Sorge-Manigualt Clarke-Singleton Hess-Davis Kubic-Mason firennan-Tyrell Moskowitz-Ciemency WojcieszekWordal Mastro-Fenlon Gonzales-fiurke Wesolowski-Angeluzzi Carlson-Kastelic Galloway-Aatow Nollet-Goetz Others  A 32 36 35 40 5 8 8 0 4 0 5 0 3  II a 8 20 31 12 5 3 1 • 1 2 4 0 2 3  f'•P 48 8 12 9 7 5 9 2 16 2 1 0 3 16  c 12 46 12 11 2 1 3 2 0 1 0 0 7  D ~8 2 20 6 5 8 2 6  ;=a 32 48 17 4 0 0 0 5 2 3 16  Fi 42 19 13 11 36 1 2 0 1 2 1  Fl 103 17 108 8 5 43 15 4 11 0 5 3 1 10  G 114 139 39 7 11 16 14 24 18 0 10  HC 5 31 25 7 5 1 4 2 4 10 0 0 9  Ho 19 7 15 20 9 8 2 1 2 3 0  K 39 52 52 16 6 6 14 11 0 ~ .l 12  L 24 25 22 10, 13 8 1 2 2 8 3 0 0 10  More Morr 1 48 1 16 3 so 0 1.t 0 23 !!! 1 :r 0 ~. 1 l 0 3 0 3 0 2 0 5  OCa 9 "M· 3 8 •f1 14 0 4 12 18 15  oco 1 8 6 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 4 0  SE 6 30 17 34 6 3 3 3 1 0 6  So 32 3 11 8 2 1 3 1 0 2 1 0 2 5  51 60 22 36 23 2 1 11 0 1 2 2 1 3 14  w 13 18 30 7 2 13 6 1 3 1 3 0 6  z 32 18 44 19 11 11 6 8 4 3 2 3 3 15  p 33 91 17 5 4 2 0 17 1 3  Totals 761 668 605 286 177 156 123 80 70 67 66 48 39 176  
Totals  177  93  138  104  140  139  137  302  397  104  100  215  128  13  188  101  20  113  71  178  104  179  tao  3321  



Judicial Board upholds Commissioners 
(contin~wd from page 3) llPtwPen two candidates. Past Board of Commissioners to still have the right to delegate." we protest the involvement of tlwv want." dPclions haven't allowed write-ins overrule a committee." Election Committee Action other student government bodies 
<;iuffrida eountered that "any and the write-in destroys the Judicial Board member Steve After the action by the Board of in a campaign that we have been group that forms a committee principle of the second election. Kane concurred with Giuffrida. Commissioners. the Election responsible for since February 4. sPPms to have the right to overrule "The issue isn't the motives of "Nothing said here tonight leads Board releases a statement signed WP plan to continue as the election that <'ommittee." tlw Board of Commissioners," Ill(' to believe that the Board of by Paul Dziedzic. Patty Burger, committee in order to keep the 
lie also claimed that "clearly the (;iuffrida concluded. "but whether Commissioners has given up the .John Sanguinetti. Diane Plection free from political 
prinl'iple of a run-off is to decide it is inherent in the power of the right to rule. It seems that they McDonnell. Leo Monaghan, Mike manipulation--even though we Slwrrod. Rod Braye, T. C. suspect that may be impossible Treanor, and Greg Smith. The now. 
Statt'ment said: After the statement was released "We are disgusted by the Braye resigned from the com­delegation to the International parlia!T'enta_ry games that we have mittee. He declined to offer a Socialist leader Michael Conference on Bangia Desh in New b,_e_c_o_m_e_s_u....:bJ:._e_ct_e_d_t_o._A_s_a.....:::.gr_o_u.:....p_re_a_s_on_.__________, 
Socialist· Harrington to speak 
Harrington will speak on "The Delhi, in 1971. Future of the Left" at Bpm tonight 
A noted author, lecturer, and in Washington Hall. Harrington is syndicated columnist, Harringtonpart of the Student Union has been the recipient of several Academic Commission's speaker awards and honorary degrees. His program and admission is free. 

first book, The Other America, is 

Harrington was born in St. Louis, credited with sparking the Ken­Missouri. and was educated at nedy-Johnson War on Poverty. He 
Holy Cross College, the University is published regularly in majorof Chicago and Yale Law School. 
journals and has writtenjour other lie had been a leader in the 

books: The Retail Clerks, The 

socialist movement for years and 
Accidential Century and Toward a 

has headed the American 
Democratic Left. 

ctelega tion to the Socialist In­Harrington's newest book, ternational, Socialism, was published on M<\y
Harrington has served on the 
Day. 1972. It is an analysis of the boards and executive committees socialist past, present and future. 
for the League for Industrial 
John Kenneth Galbraith has 

Democracy. A. Philip Randolph 
commented, "Everyone owes 

Institute. American Civil Liberties himself a week with this book. It is 
trnion. Twentieth Century Fund, 
informed and w~ll-written and 

and many other organizations. 
invites interest as well as belief." 
SMC Class of '73 presents 

THE FRENCH CONNECTION 

PLACE: O'Laughlin Aud.· SMC Saturday March 3 TIME: 7:30 & 10:00 
ADMISSION: $1.00 

STUDENT UNION SOCIAL COMMISSION SAYS: Don't miss the craziest yet! ! "South Shore Train Party & Chicago Tour" 
For only $11 per-person-round-trip to Chicago,March 24 lunch, tour, fun & more!! For only $8 per-person-round trip, Bud & Mick, fun & more too!! 
March 7 · Last Day to Buy Tix Only 150 tix to be sold · So Hurry! ! 
7:00am· Bus transportation to station from circle 
7:30 ·Train leaves · Party starts (your own cabooze) 
9:00 ·Arrive in Chicago (Chi time) ·stagger to bus 9:30­
· lop of Hancock Building Observatory -Highest building in Chicago10:30 · Over 1 00 stories 
11:30 · Lunch at Johnny Lattners Marine Tower Restaurant 
1:00 pm · Tour of "The Windy City" including Museum of Science & Industry 
• 

4:00 · 5:30 · Free Time · Dinner, Bars, Souvenir Shops, etc. 
5:45 pm · Train leaves and party starts 
5:46 pm · Bud &Mick board the train in fun style 
5:47 pm • Dixieland band starts playing 
5:48 pm • Toast to the conductor 
5:49 pm • Whatever your you're trained to do 
9:00 m • (S. Bend time) Bus from station to circle 
r.. 

Wednesday, February 28, 1973
6 the observer I 

El Campito in South Bend 
Day care center needs support 
assistance to work effectively and 

that it accepts children still in Miss Aveha Lopez. Manpower student volunteers. She was 
by Jeanne Murphy to pay off their debt.
diapers to those children not old offers them a small fee for their disappointed in the initial 
Staff ' Reporter 

enough for Head Start. services. Mrs. Samora feels that recruiting of students, which "EI Campito" is still in need for Volunteers needed amounted to three, but she is still The growing need for modern 
moreadministrative 'assistance. hopeful that more students will 
care centers brings to focus the Besides the financial support, become interested in "El Cam­
Damaged building
need for eliciting financial support Mrs. Samora sees a need for more pito."
Funding

to maintain these centers. "El Campito", a day care center on "EI Centro"~ local migrant Thomas Street in South Bend, is workers agency, allowed the The only financial aid given to struggling to meet ends financially students to use the ground floor in this Center is from "El Centro" 
and is looking to Notre Dame their Half-Way House for the day itself and the Mid-West Council of students and community for care center. The house was pur­La Raza. Without their support, cooperation. chased to take in those new Samora says, "El Campito" could 
In September, a group of migrants who had no place to live. not stay open. Samora also ap­
Sociology students from Notre Half-Way House is not a very safe pealed to United Way for funds but 
Dame met with Mrs. Betty_Samora building according to Mrs. has not received any assistance to discuss the lack of day care Samora. It has faulty wiring and from them. In addition, the J\2echa centers available in the locality. electrical work, and it is in poor 
C'l-ub from Notre :-'bame-has 
Young children were left with condition on the whole. Last donated funds for the center.
slightly older siblings while Friday night, the roof burnt off the mothers went to w.ork. The building, and replacement of a new "El Campi to" sponsored a dance
students. calling themselves roof is just an added expense that last week .and took in $300 whichManpower, and Mrs. Samora "El Campito" must undertake. 
"Is a 1 ldrop in the bucket," · 
ABBEY IS HAPPY 
to announce_ our new budget motel in 
South Bend. Lovely rooms at low cost. $10.00 single $12.50 double Friendly happy atmosphere·· Sendyour friends and relatives 
~ 
ABBEY INNS OF AMERICA 52825 U.S. 31 N South Bend, Indiana 46637 (219) 272-9000


organized a non-profit day care The day care center is run by two _according to Samora. The 
center for the migrant workers women. Mrs. Conchita Nino and l ~ (next to the Boars Head) children. The center is unique in 
Center needs. much more financial 
WITH TWAYOU GET EUROPE FORALMOST NOTHING, NEXTTO NOTHING, ANDABSOWTELYNOTHING. 


ABOUT$50. 
This spring recess TWA has great; on double occupancy) Continental break­inexpensive city packages in London, Paris, fast, taxes and service charges. Plus 4 Rome, Athens and Amsterdam. For example, theatre tickets, admission to 6 discotheques, for $50 plus airfare you get 7 days in London, sightseeing, and more. Go before March 31 including a room with private bath, (based when prices go up. 
$4.30 A NIGHT. 
Only TWA gives you Stutelpass~ It's a $4.30 a night, no reservations needed. Plus 
coupon booklet that gets you a room and tickets good for meals and concerts and 
Continental breakfast in a guesthouse or lots of things. 
student hotel in any of 52 cities for only 


FREE. 

When you land in London, Paris, Rome, 50% off, as well as absolutely free things. Madrid, Amsterdam or Frankfurt, just turn Here, for example, are some of the absolutely in your boarding pass at the TWA city ticket free things in London and Paris. (Deals for office within 24 hours of your arrival and the other cities will be available starting you'll get a brochure full of discounts up to March 15.) 

LONDON. PARIS. 
Free admission to any ten Free 2 hours of motorcycle rental Greyhound Racing 'fracks 
Free latest-fad gift from Free admission and drink at Aux Eschelles de Saint Denis La Valbonne, one of London's most 
Free silk tote bag from La Gaminerie terrific clubs Free drink at Hippopotamus
Free breakfast at your choice of 10 Quality Inns
-
Free pint of Watney's Red Barrel in 
your choice of over 40 London pubs 
For 11..v ...........~..,........cition see your Campus Rep or call TWA. 
WITH· TWA IT PAYS TO BE YOUNG. 
*Stutelpass is a service mark owned exclusively by TWA. 

Wednesday, February 28, 1973 the observer 
7 

Swimmers split last duals 
by Pete McHugh Despite Jim Kane's triple victor§' 
( 100 and 200 yard freestyle and 400 
After suffering a 57-56 heart­~·ard freestyle relay), and Ed breaker to Illinois Stzte Friday, the Graham's record performance in Notre Dame swim team closed this the 200 yard individual medley, the vear's dual meet action Saturday J{edbird s prevailed. by destroying Wayne State, 71-42, Illinois State took the early lead before a sparse crowd at the by capturing the 400 yard medley Hockne Memorial Pool. relay. but the Irish placed first in 
The Irish set one varsity, one the next four events to hold a 24-19 pool. and nine meet records in the advantage going into the one meter weekend competition. which saw diving competition. For the Irish, ~ixteen tankmen score for coach Sherk and Drew Wallach finished Dennis Stark. The Irish were led 1-2 in the 1000 yard freestyle while bv ,Jim Kane. John Sherk, and Kane and Jim Meagher placed dene Krathaus. who dominated first and third in the 200 yard the freestyle events as they have freestyle. In the 50 yard freestyle all season. Krathaus won in meet record time 
In J<'riday's setback, Notre Dame ( 22.5 l: Graham broke his own t·ould not match Illinois State in the varsity record with a 2:07.2 intermediate and dving events. clocking. 
ND trackmen beaten badly 
(cnntinu<'d .from page B) Don Opal. who ran a 49 second 40 just last week was hurt. He was forced out of the competition by a leg injury. 
Mike Housley prevented a shut­out in the middle distances, taking second place with a 2:17.4 effort in the 1000 yard run. Freshman Greg Marino covered the 1000 yards in 
2:19 to pick up third place and give tlw Irish their only double placement of the night. 
McMannon's time of 7.5 in the 60­:vard high hurdles was slow for the defending NCAA champ but it was good enough to bring in the only Irish first place. 
i''reshmen Bob Schott stepped down from his regular position in the middle distances to run in the sprint events and recorded a time of H.5 and a third place in the 60­vard dash. · Dan Dunne turned in another of his consistent performances, 
covering two miles in 9:11.2 to 
FOR SALE  
For Sale: Acoustic brand plifier, one piece, best offer.  am­call  

234 4547 after 7:00 P.M. 
1969 Haig Ultra's Aluminum Sl1atts 4 woods 8 irons· Call Joe 8247 
For S'Rie: 71 Pinto. good condition, must sel.J.-..1500 or best offer. call 259 0787 
For sale: Ampex 1455 stereo reat deck. with auto-reverse, $150. Call 3017 after 8pm. 
th of July flfeworks tor !>ale. Send name and telephone number ~zx 685 Notre Dame. llllliana 
For Sille 1966 Dodge window van! call Rich after 5 P.M. 
For Snlc Kenwood 5002 Amp. $200. Cilll 3272 
LOST AND FOUND 

Lost 72 N D. ring Initials W.H.V. Lil Fortune Basement Reward 8515 
MADISON FRIEND 'LOST PURSE AT KUBIAKSI YELLOW KNIT, DESPERATELY NEED I D'S CALL TOM 8930 
RIDES WANTED 

Need ride to Binghamton for Spring Break. Call Peg 4975 
NPed ride to Wash. D.C. area Marc11 8 or 9 . Will share driving ilnd expenses. Call 4822 
Nped ride to Rochester, N.Y. on Mi'rch 9th . Wi,l share e)(penses ilnd driving. Call Bill at 1047 
Nped ride to Cleveland 3-2-73 ·call Steve 8589 
Girls need ride to Florida March 9. cilll 4006 or 4047 
Need ride to Mass. or anywhere in 
N. E March lOth Will share clrivinq and expenses. Call Mark 8982 
NPcd ride to Cleveland can leave ;uwtimc Thursday, March 8. Cal I Grcq 1336 
Need irde for two or three to St. Louis March 2 weekend di-ll Dick 233 6280 
Npcd ride back fro..;/chi~ago O'Hare for two on ~;M"ch 18. 3118. 
James 
Need ride to Lauderdale, Hollywood or Miami. S Ken 3679 
Desperately need ride to New Jersey for break )March 8 or 9) I T m 7852 
capture a third place in that event. 
The showing of the mile relay team was pleasing for the Irish, who hope to qualify that quartet for the upcoming IC-tA and NCAA meets. Shooting for a time of 3:25, Bill Phillips. Bob Schott, Don Creehand and Tom McMannon were clocked in 3:24.6, the best performance for an Irish mile relay team this year. 
Fifteen of the Irish thinclads went to Ann Arbor last weekend for the USTFF meet and though some impressive times were turned in only Tom McMannon placed, taking second in the hurdle event with a time of 7.2 seconds. 
The Irish travel to Princeton, N. J., this weekend for the IC.tA meet. Notre Dame looks to McMannon and the middle distance medley relay to score points against top rlight com­petition. headed by defending champ Penn State, Navy and Villanova. 
Two guys desperately need ride to Miami on Mar. 7. Will share driving and expenses. Call Pete. 8810. Please give us a break! 
~ qirls need ride toNy. or N.J. at break. Call 4101, 5154, 4028 
Need ride to N.E. Pa. Mar 9 after 
5:00 PM. Call Ed. 1504 Drive, share expenses 
Ride needed for friend froin Kent State to Notre Dame this weekend. Call John 8810 
Need ride to Philadelphia on Sprnig Break. Will share ex· penses and driving Call 8731 
2 qirls need ride to Cincinnati on March 8 call Mary 463.5 
Need ride to Illinois t'l!ot~ University Peoria, Illinois 1\rea. Friday March 2 Call Jim a1 ll$5 
FOR RENT 
Rooms and kitchen. $40 mo. 233· 1329 
Available tor September, two , three, four and six bedroom homes. Call Mr. Hambarger . 234­9364 
NOTICES 
S!'e Richard Harris dragged naked through the bull rushes and llunq by his pectorals for the love of an indian woman Showing Friday A Man Called Horse. 
Will work on Volkswagons -11 years experience. Call after 4:00 p.m. 272-3980 or 272-2765 
New York Gallery tour round trip IJy bus from South Bend. March 8· 12. Transportation $35. Hotel 10.50 nite. Sign up , Dept of Art. 132 'Shag. 
FOR INFORMATION ABOUT GAY AWARENESS COM· MUNITY. CALL 7789, W Th-F 8· 10 PM. 
Need money for Spring Break'{J. Borrow $20 to $150 from M,llfrissey Loan Fund. Mo[ldat-Friday 11·15 12:15. Basement of LaFortuen 
Child care workers Immediate openinqs and other openings within the next several months for n1arried couples witout dependent children. To live in four days off tour days. Residential Treatment Proqram for emotionally disturbed adolescents. Write to Fort Wayne Children's Home, 
Hox 5038, Hazelwood Station. Fort I Wayne, Indiana. with resume. Must be at least age 21. 
In the diving competition Notre Dame could only manage a second place fin!sh by Dan Makielski, as the Redbirds closed the ~ap to two points. However, the Ir1sh swept the 200 yar~ butterfly and 200 freestyle behmd Ed Strack .and the everpresent Kane to stay m front :J!l-32. 
All-American Rick Roberts set a Rockne pool and meet mark 
(4:55.9) in the 500 yard freestyle to cut Notre Dame's lead to 45-43. The Redbirds finally regained the lead by taking the top two positions in the 200 yard breaststroke with Brian McCorry trailing for the Irish. 
Illinois then clinched the win in the three meter diving com­petition. an event which Notre Dame had not lost all season, as Chris Payne's second place fell short of salvaging a win. The Irish appropriately went down fighting by setting a pool mark (3: 18.8l in the 400 yard freestyle relay <Sherk, Meagher. Krathaus, Kane l. 
Against Wayne State, Notre Dame captured nine of the thirteen events to easily defeat the Tartars. Coach Stark was able to use all his swimmers after the Irish broke off to a :l5-8 lead. 
Sherk. Kane, Krathaus, and Graham began the rout by again placing first in their specialties. Other individual winners were Strack in the 200 yard butterfly, .Joe O'Connor in the 100 yard freestyle. and Wallach in the 500 yard freestyle. 
Notre Dame also swept both relay events: 400 yard medley mob Thompson, Jim Fischer, Strack, O'Connor) and 400 yard freestyle relay <Sherk, John Balthrop. Mark Wilcox, Krathausl. 
The weekend split gave the Irish a 7-5mark in meet action this year. 
Overseas Jobs summer or per manent. Australia, Europe, S America, Africa, etc. All professions, $500· $1000 monthly <'xpenses paid, sightseeing. Fre 
infor. Write TWR Co. Dept F· 2550 Telegraph Ave., Berkeley CA 94704 
hot Iine crisis phone , have problem you'd like to discus anonymously ?(drigs, bad trip family relations. suicide, con traception, pregnancy, abortion etc.) ? Call this number 282-232 
Before you buy a diamond Lear all the facats. It may save you great deal. Call: James 3118 
Sec the mhs't grll'ls'l)nw motion picture of 1971 in LVI!li\S Hall tomorrow night 7,9, 11 'and Saturday Night 8 10. A MAN CALLED HORSE. 
MEN WOMEN! 
JOBS ON SHIPS! No experience required. Excellent pay. Worldwide traveL Perfect summer job or career. Send $2.00 for information. SEAFAX. Dept. F 7. P.0. Box 2049, Port angeles, washinqton 98362. 
WANTED 
Responsible person wants clean house or apartment to rent over spring break. Call Earl 272-38!17 
So. Carolina Basketball !.If needed for underpriy.el~d So. Bend students. lt"you would like to contribute. call John 288-1001 or Theresa 4437 
Interested in some good poke!" qnmcs ? Cnll Lrrry 3245 
S!'vcral men needed immediately tor telephone sales work. Hourlv wage. For more information call 288 6026 
Babysitter wanted to live in room board and small salary, 2 small boys at Riverside Drive. phone 234 9357 
Will do your typing, professional job. Please phone 259-6538 
PERSONAL 
Carol Ann, Will you go out with me? J.M.J. 
Need ride to Milwalkee. Leave Friday 2 Mar. 73, afternoon night. Call Paul. 8276 
ADS 


says 
When it comes to pianos. we will do just about anything. , If we can't eo It, we will try to find someone who does. 
Call me now for on appointment 674-9335 
~~Piano Pete'' 


Osceola, lndknio 
Quality Tuning and Repairing 


.. 
Student Union presents: the triumphant return of 

THE BEACH BOYS 
Saturday March 31 Tickets: $5.50, 4.50, 3.00 

First ticket sale Friday at 4:00 in Jrd Floor of La Fortune and at the ACC Ticket Office 

Learn to fly while you re still in college. The Marines will pay the bill-about $900 worth of lessons-for qualified members of the Platoon Leaders Class. You'll also be earning a Marine officer's commis­sion through PLC summer training at Quantico, Virginia. And after graduation, you may be one of the few good men who go on to Marine pilot or flight 
officer training. Get the details from the Marine officer 

• 
lookingforafewgoodmen. Dining Halls Noon and Evening Meals To thru Frid 

the observer 

Irish back home; face W. Mich. 
by Vic Dorr vaulted itself back into the post­and currently 8-16--will be mat­season tournament picture. ching Notre Dame's youthful line­Tonight. for the first time in two But ND still has two regular­up with an underclass roster of weeks. the Notre Dame basketball season game remaining, and the their own. There are no senior team will play a home game. Irish must win them both to keep regulars on coach Eldon Miller's 
The Irish have been on the road any tournament aspirations alive. squad. and WMU frequently starts since February 15th--winning Tonight, against the Broncos of four juniors and a sophomore. against West Virginia and 11th­Western Michigan, Notre Dame "We are concerned about a rated St. John's and losing to Duke will play the first of those final possible lack of scoring this year," and Fordham--and have padded games. observed Miller, prior to the their overall won-lost mark to 13-11 The Broncos, who are suffering Bronco's opening game, "but we during that 13-day span. Coach through their second losing season should have better defense, Digger Phelps' squad has also in a row--they were 10-14 last year stronger rebounding, and more 
depth." "Western Michigan has good personnel," agreed Phelps.



Champs advance 
"They've got good rebounding strength and play good defense,
• and we can't afford to overlook them. We'll have to play well to

1n Bengal Bouts 
win.'' Much of Western Michigan'sTo1n Hanlon. The cheerleader
by Mike Hansen "good personnel" is located along
from Holy Cross wasn't a flashy 
the Bronco front line. The club's 
The action started slowly but pNformer but got the job done 
lone sophomore starter, 6-6 center 
<'nded in a flurry last night as against Hanlon. dazing him in the 
Frank Avers, anchors the 
unheralded sophomore Mike second round and constantly ap­
forecourt unit and is the Bronco's 
plying pressure in the third.
McGuire floored defending leading rebounder 02.4 rpgl and ehampion Pat Steenberge three Morrison will draw Mke Suddes second-leading scorer 04.8 ppg.). 
limPs in the second round to earn a. 
as his opponent in tomorrow li-5 Mike Steele was moved from TKO and highlight the action in the night's finals. The 145-pound center to forward at the start of the semifinals of the 42nd annual senior was put through a rugged '72-'73 season, and he has adaptedBengal Bouts test before emerging a split nicely to his new position. Steele,
The Farley sophomore took decision winner against Alumni who averaged 15.0 ppg from his 
eha•·ge a1 ter an evenfii]troundana pivot post last year, is currently
sophomore Bill Pioli. Pioli, one of
landed a solid right which aecked leading all Western Michigan
the best novices in recent years,
the football quarterback for the scorers with a 15.7 mark.
dl'monstrated some great
first timl'. He continued hurling was the victim of The other Bronco forward is 6-4
uppercuts butimprl'ssive combinations and some hard rights thrown by Suddes Charlie Sidwell. One of only two 
finally opened a cut on Steen­in the second round. Suddes returning starters <Steele is the lwrgp's face with just over a managed to holdhisedge in the last other), Sidwell averaged 10 points 
won two games in a row and seven Gary Brokaw, the team'sIllinute left in the round. The round. even though he tired and 6.4 rebounds per game last 

of their last nine. second-leading scorer, is

impressive McGuire landed a season and is currently scoring at tallying
while Pioli remained strong. 
The Irish have been led during an even 18 points per game, and

third punch wihich put Steenberge a clip of 6.9 ppg. 
their late-season surge by Dwight Clay, his running mate at

docn ncar the ropes and referee If one were to award Mike Western Michigan's backcourt Shumate, who is averaging 20.2 guard, is averaging 11.5. Gary(;porge VanDer Hayden called the McGuire with the evening's award positions are filled by Jimmie points and 11.6 reQounds per game. Novak and Pete Crotty, the ND
bout at I :20. for the best performance, the Harvey (6.8 ppgl and s'teve Rhobin Sixtl'en fighters were victorious second place finisher would surely (2.8). ''Shue's" 31 point effort against St. forwards, are averaging 13.2 and 
be 160-pounder Jim Lepley. The John's was his best of the season, 7.3 ppg., respectively. Novak is
last night and will join "We can't overlook them," 
heavyweight contenders Mike senior from Tulsa, Oklahoma, used repeated Phelps. "If they put and the performance drew raves also the teeam's second-leading Wt>hb and Frank Basanese in some solid blows to the head, everything together then they from Phelps and Frank Mulzoff, rebounder 00.0). by few the St. John's coach.
Thursday's championship round. · followed a pulverizing could give us trouble." Tipoff for tonight's game is 8:00. Topping the list of sixteen was uppercuts. to end the hopes of Phelps will counter the Bronco's 
thrl'e-time titlist Roland Cham­sophomore Kevin Poupore. It was potential with a young, though Jim Dona Idson:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:::=:::::::::::::::.:=:«============================~=:::::::::::::::============== lllee. The South Bend stalwart had a wonder how anyone could stay in experienced, line-up. The Irish no trm1ble with Joe Szady of Lyons thl' ring as long as the Breen­will go with John Shumate at Hall and was awarded a TKO at Phillips sophomore did but center. Gary Novak and Peter 
The Irish Eye 

1:25 of the first round. Chamblee Poupore showed his courage in Crotty at the forwards, and Gary will attempt to become only the remaining until the end of the Brokaw and Dwight Clay at the third boxer in history to win four fight. guards. Phelps has employed the 
::=======================================================================::::::::::::~==============:========:=::!::ITo urnev TaIk

eonsecutive championships but be same starting lineup throughout
Grace Hall junior Jerry This has been an up and down season for Notre Dame's basketball team
will have to do it against deter­the entire season, and last
Samaniego knocked the only fresh­but coach "Digger" Phelps hopes that his young ball club, fresh from two
mined Bill McGrath. Saturday, in New York, the ND
man in this year's meet out of road wins at West Virginia and 11th-ranked St. John's, will finish the year
McGrath proved that he'll be up quintet received one of its stiffest
championship contention and must on the upswing and project themselves into the post-season tournament
to the task after he disposed of two­challenges. The ND starters
now take on Lepley. Chet Zawalich oict11rP
tim<' chapion Ed Carney in the played without substitution while
of Flanher Hall took too many After a 1-6 start, the Irish sandwiched five-game winning streaks
l'vening's feature bout. Carney upsetting St. John's. and have now
punches and couldn't excape the around a three-game loss skein and upped their record to 11-9. There wastook the opening round on pure deadly aim of Samaniego. 
talk about a tourney bid but those conversations stopped when Notreag_gressivenessbut the effects of the Dame let a nine-point fead slip away in the closing minutes against


Trackmen
flu slowed the Dillon Hall senior in Cec1l Boot advanced to Thur­Fordham and lost a 70-69 decision in New York's Madison Square Garden. 
the final rounds and southpaw ·, sday_'s f!n.als with . a When Duke pinned another defeat on the Irish, in Durham, evening Notre McGrath was able to reach him unammous aecisiOn over Mike Dame's record at 11-11, it looked like the '72-'73 season could go into the 
Pnough times to take the decision. Welsh in the 175-pou~d c~ass. B_oot 

thrashed 
books as a "rebuilding" year, a giant step on the road to basketballThe other fighting McGrath, danced around the ~mg m the first respectability after last season's disastrous 6-20 mark.

younger brother Pat, was also a but had Welsh hangmg on by Tom McKennev Instead, the Irish started back up again. They did it the hard way,winner last night but needed a late m the second to earn the nod. 
A 107-24 deteat at the hands of 
trouncing West Virginia in Morgantown and edging St. John's in the 

spurt to overcome Breen-Phillip's Veteran Tom Hudes was Western Michigan and disap­Nassau Coliseum, and, with only two home games left on the schedule­Matt Cavanaugh. The rematch awarded a split decision over Ray twinting performances at the Western Michigan <tonightl and nationally-rank~_ South Carolina between champion McGrath and Kern in the 140-pound division and American Track and Field <Saturday) the Irish are still hoping for a bid from the selection com­last year's runner-up Cavanaugh the announcement immediately Federation meet in Ann Arbor mittee of the National Invitational Tournament.
proved to be one of the night's best-: drew mixed emotions in the arena. 
were the ingredients that made a After upsetting St. John's a happy Phelps_said, "It was a game we hadfought contests as the Zahm junior Kern had landed two solid left disappointing weekend for the to win to stay in contention for a tournament.bid.;u•s always great to win used his effective punching style to hooks in the second and got to the ~o.!fe pame track team. 
in New York and beat a team like St. John's." 

counterbalance the crafty dan-tired Hudes in the third with a big ,:,emor Tom McMannon provided Yesterday, in his office at the ACC, Phelps analyzed his club's tourney 
cing uf the lefty Cavanaugh. right. But the judges gave the fight the only bright spot for the Irish, cpances.The -other 135-pound fightwas a to Hudes. His opponent in the winning event at
the hurdle "We knew before last week's_games that, if we were to be considered 
direct opposite of the McGrath-finals will be Golden Gloves 
Kalamazoo with a time of 7.5, and for the NIT, we'd have to do om:_best," he said. We played a great gameCavanaugh struggle, as Larry \'eteran Steve Duffy, who won placing second in Ann Arbor, against West, Virginia. We .shdt very well and played good offense and 
Semerad outlasted lienio_r Jerry easily over Greg Benninghoff of crossing the finish line in 7.2 defense." Bradley. The Baltimore senior South Bend. 
Se!:Onds "The St. John's game was one where they had to win to keep the NCAA
was all over Bradley in the opening The disastrous weekend began bid chances alive and we had to win to have a chance at the NIT. We wonl'llursday's championships willround but seemed to have lost his Thursday night in Kalamazoo it and we're under consideration again."
begin at 8 pm with the matchtouch with the opening of round when the Irish captured only two "We have to have a shot," he continued. "We've won 12 of our last 17between Steve Morris and Tomtwo. Both men staggered arou_nd, places in the field events. Junior ga_mes ~QQ,_ of the five games we lost, four of them were on the roadGarrity. Morris breezed pastthe ring in the last two rounds with Scott McFarland took third iil the (Duquesne, Illinois, Fordham and Duke). Our other loss was to UCLA. Iwrestler Marc Ronquillo while
the edge going to Bradley each long jump and Mike Hogan thfnKThat we're one Of the hottest teams in the country." 
Garrity had no trouble withtime. However, Semerad's 
collected the only other Irish field "When you analyze our schedule and look at the teams we've played, Alumni's Mike .cramer.
devasting b~ati!l&.Qf Bradley in the event point with a third place finish you can see that, if we win our last two games--which would give us a 15-11
first gave Semerad the victory. 

in the pole vault. record--we'd be deserving of an NIT bid." 
• 
Tllere were two upsets m me !55-Handball Club Commenting on the meet, coach _N0tr~ Dame has something else going . for it with the NIT com­pound division. Ken McCandless, Don Faley said, "Western mitteemen, in addition to its record and schedule--the "magic" name, and architecture student from lists meeting Michigan is very tough, especially anda large following in the greater New York area. OJ&!aha, Nebr., knocked _off Anyone interested in playmg m at home with the tight turns on Phelps pointed out that Irish plus factor, remarking, "We draw w~i!!_. 
defending champion MikeSanders the Handball Club two nights a their indoor track. It was quite New York. There were good crowds at both the Fordham and St.John's by relying on constant punching week for fwn or <;om petition should obvious we weren't going to win so games. When you consider that the first round of the NIT is on st. and little defense. Cavanaugh attend a meeting scheduled for we were more intent on qualifying Patrick's Day and that there are 1,500 Notre Dame students in the Hall senior Jim Burkart was 7:30 tonight in the Architecture people for the NCAA meet in metropolitan New York area and 8,000 more alumni, as well as manyt>qually aggressive as he defeated Building. March." 'subway alumni', we'd be a good drawing card. In the first round, the the 1972 runner-up, Tom Bole. Bole The club is open to all classes­Mike Gehagan, who has been NIT looks for teams that draw, can play well and can win." 
never stood a chance in the bout as consistent for the Irish throughout
..advanced... beginners and in­There's little doubt that the Irish can do all three. Only UCLA ran away
Burkart used a sneaky right to set the indoor season, firlfshed third in 
tl'rmPdiates-and clinics are to be rom Phelps' hustling quintet and as, victories over Marquette and St. 
up his powc·rful left to stun the the mile, but Irish points were few
given by Jerry Jones and Noel John's prove, the Irish can beat virtually anybody. 
as Notre Dame failed to place a
!55-pounder 1requenuy O'SuUi~n .. "The bids go out Thursday," Phelps said. "If we win Wednesday night 
man in the 300, 440 and 600 yard
Charles Mornson also earned an Future competition is planned and there's no call, then we'll just have to win Saturday. The gam,es tt\~6i 
dashes. The absence of freshman week are both big ones."
upst>t win when he took the~ with such schools as Illinois, In­nH'asun• of last year's runnf'r-up, diana, Chicago Circle and Detroit. (continued on page 7) If the Irish win two, Phelps won't have to wait by the P~0!11ilfor long. _ 







