On The Inside 
Irish demolish Dayton ...page 8 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Monday, January 22, 1973
Vol. VII, No. 63 

Law prof files suit 
•


1n tenure dispute 
presented to him by the Staff Reporter University.
by Jim Ferry 
Section 8 of the suit reads as 
Professor Michael B. Mcintire of follows: "That plaintiff and the Notre Dame Law School has defendant are unable to agree as to filed suit aginst the University of their respective rights under said Notre Dame asking for a contract "Exhibit A" hereto. declaratory judgement on the Plaintiff claims that by the terms question of his right to tenure. of this contract he is entitled to 
The action was filed on January tenure as an Associate Professor 16 in the St. Joseph Superior Court. upon cumpletion of a three (3) year In the suit. Mcintire alleges that he term and thereaftc·, except for \ras denied the tenure that was serious cause. and that said con­guaranteed him in his Associate tract cannot be terminated or Professor's contract, signed on altered in any respect except by l\lav 29. 1970. Both Mcintire and mutual agreement of the parties or University President Father by operation of law. There has Theodore M. Hesburgh signed the been no mutual agreement to contract. and it is now marked as terminate the contract or any facts "Exhibit A" in the Superior Court that would, by operation law, office in South Bend. cancel or terminate tne contract. According to section two of Defendant denies plaintiff's Mcintire's contract. "the said contractual rights so asserted and appointee accepts the rank and elaims that he will not be entitled title of Associate Professor with to tenure upon completion of three tenure." {:~l years of satisfactory service, 
Tenure is defined as "per­and that said contract, "Exhibit manence of contract in the sense A" is canceleed and is of no further that it may be terminated only for force cancelled at the end of the cause." 1972-73 academic years." 
Another clause in the contract The University must file an an­states that "after three years of swer to the complaint within satisfactory service from his first twenty days of face a default appointment:. whether under this judgement. or a preceding contract, the Ap­Mcintire received a Bachelor of pointee shall have tenure." Seience degree in Civil 
On November 21, 1972, the Engineering from Notre Dame and University presented Mcintire a Jurid Doctro degree from the with a letter which purported to University of Wisconsin Law cancel his contract and offer him a School. He is regarded by many as "terminal year of apointment." an expert in his field of En­l\Iclntire felt that such a "terminal \'ironmental Engineering and has ~·ear of appoinement" would not been responsible for several result in tenure. federal grants to the Law School. 

I 
Mcintire then notified the When questioned about the suit, University" that he did not con­Mcintire declined to comment. sider himself bound by such notice II is attorney. Robert F. Gon­
of cancellation of contract and that derman. of Blume. Wyneken, "Prepare ye the way of the Lord!" sings members of the cast performed songs and he did not intend to execute and Levine. and Clifford, could not be Michael Hoit. a member of the cast of the drmces from the show, which played in South deliver the waiver of tenure reached for comment. musical hit. Godspell. to begin the Mass in Bend Friday and Saturday nights. An ex­Sacred Heart Cathedral yesterday. Brought elusive interview with part of the cast begins 
l 
l>y Fr. Toohey for a special noon Mass, ten on page 5. (Staff photo by Jim Hunt). 
NDNicaraguans relive earthquake nightmare 
by Tom Bornholdt Staff Reporter  almost immediately after the quake to pay the costs of their 1\lanaguan students.  t•nd." Caldera's house badly cracked.  was merely Salbo's was  plem~ntation of health measures and massive vaccination saved the city from pestilence.  All of the group was very im­pressed by the international aid sent to their destitute area.  
Four Notre Dame students from l\lanagua, Nicaragua. described for WNDlJ radio and television last Friday their experiences in the l'arthquake that leveled that city on Ike. 23. including their dif­ficulty in staying at Notre Dame financially. Tlw four students were Manuel Laeavo. Roberto Salvo. Milton Caldera and Isabel Caldera. l.acayo acted as spokesman for the group.  financial problems i\fll'r the television interview, Salvo said that he had talked with the director of financial aid, and found that. at best. the university would give him a $700 loan and a $500 grant. While none of the ten Notre Dame or St. Mary's Managuan students \H're seriously injured in the quake. three were unable to return this semester. According to  completely destroyed. Gas tanks in the center of Managua began to explode. Fires blazed throughout the stricken city. Over a billion dollars of damage was done, and six hundred blocks were declared a disaster zone. According to Caldera, one of the worst aspects of the tragedy was ·to have people dying all around you. and not being able to help. "Yott had to let them die. You eouldn't do anything for them."  Evacuation of the city took roughly a week. Some peoplle did not wish to leave. but the govern­ment eoaxed them out by refusing to ration food to those who remained in the devestated region. international aid "Planes began to land every five minutes. Every country senlt aid, including Cuba and Red China."  Caldera was particularly im­pressed by the cooperation of the other Central American states. He described the unfortuanate death of Roberto Clemente as, "only one of the many acts of heroism and altruism" that occurred after the quake. They all thought that the Nicaraguan government's decision to rebuild the city on the same spot was "unwise."  
actually two quakes  L:1cayo. financial the reason.  difficulty  was  six hours of darkness  
"It was complete chaos," he said. lit• estimated that about 80 percent of the city was wiped out. "People were running in the streets .... bodies were all over the  Salvo reported that the financial aid office said that it was "im­possible" for them to pay his total costs for this semseter. He plans to meet with them Wednesday to  The quake struck at night, taking away Managua's electrical power imml'diately. For six hours, in­jured. trapped and survivors \\'ailed in total darkness.  Letters to the editor  
place." Aetually there were two quakes that struck the city. Many people in the l'itv assumed that it was over whl'n the first tremor subsided.  discuss the matter again. "Wl' thought that the reaction of the university would be dif­ferent. ..a more Christian reac­tion." said the group.  Looting was a major problem in the aftermath of the wake. "The military was one of the main causes of the looting," complained Salbo. According to him. it was  . .. page 6  
then the second worse quake hit. According to the group. the university has not yet given any money to help the students from  growing. growing Asked about his recollections of the eatastrophe. Milton Caldera  only afterwards when teams began arriving from alll over the world, that the government chose to control the military.  Inaugural analysis  
the Managua area. whose homes and businesses were either severely damaged or destroyed by the disaster. According to them. other universities offered  rt>plied. "I have experienced earthquakes before, but this was speeial...it was growing, growing, and growing. I could smell the dust. I really thought it was the  saved from plague "We felt that plague was inevitable." agreed the group. Fortun~tely the immediate im­ ...page 7  

------------------------------------------------------------------~~----~------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
the observer Monda , January 22, 1973 
warld briefs 

(c) 1973 New York Times News Service 
SMC Securi-ty denies shooting 

by Maria Gallagher St. Mary's Editor 
A reported shooting on the Saint Mary's campus early Sunday 111orning was flatly denied last night by Anthony Kovatch, Saint Mary's security chief. 
The incident. which occurred 
sometime between 2:00 and 3:00 
a.m .. concerned three Notre Dame freshmen and one sophomore sighted on fifth floor Regina North. Security received an anonymous report from a Hegina resident, but tlw men escaped through the north east door of the hall and fled through the cemetery behind the building before they arrived. 
It was rumored that a security guard fired one or two warning shots in the pursuit, splintering a gravestore in the cemetery. 
"Impossible," countered Kovatch. "Mv men have been instructed not 'to shoot at anyone." 
Kovatch explained the loud noises heard by witnesses as firecrackers which someone set off during the chase. having no con­neetion with the incident. The gravestone. he said. was knocked over by the fleeing students. 

Washington-Gen. Alexander M. Haig, Jr. conferred with President Nixon and Henry A. Kissinger Sunday shortly after returning to Washington from Saigon where he sought approval of the cease-fire agreement being prepared by the United States and North Vietnam. Technical experts working on the agreement's details met again in Paris Sunday and American sauces said they would meet again Monday. 
Washington-Two military physicians have charged that Air Force flight surgeons participated in dozens of bombing raids over Southeast Asia at least since 1970 in violation of international law. military regulations and the Hippocratic oath. The physicians who are still on active duty in the Air Force, specifically said that some of the colleagues operated aircraft weapons systems on bombing and strafing missions in South Vietnam and Laos. 
Washington-President Nixon marked the first full day of his second term by serving as host for 300 inaugural workers and members of his new administration at a White House worship service. The preachers who included the Rev. Billy Graham, a close friend of Nixon, spoke of the need to work for world peace and self-reliance, themes of the President's inaugural address. 
New York-A two day ordeal of blazing gunfights, death and terror at a Brooklyn sporting goods store ended dramatically Sunday af­ternoon with a daring rooftop escape by nine remaining hostag.es, and several hours later, the peaceful surrender of four trapped gunmen. 
an campu• laday 
7: 00--meeting, crew team,411 ad­ministration building. 
7: 
30--meeting, flying club, ROTC building. 

7: 
30--duplicate bridge, Iafortune basement, students and faculty welcome. 


8: 15--performance, masterworks of organ music, arthur 0. lawrence, sacred heart church. 

at nd-•mc: 
One student turned himself into security after hearing the "shots." The other three were not ap­prehended. 
The incident was one of three in the vicinity of Regina that night. One Notre Dame student was found "hiding behind Augusta Hall. apparently waiting for someone to let him in," said Kovatch. He was stopped. questioned. and released. 
Two more Notre Dame students were discovered trying the north east door after curfew. 
l{egina is a particular security problem because of the number of doors. and has been the scene of many like incidents this year. 
When Notre Dame students are caught in these instances. ex­plained Kovatch, their ID's are confiscated and SMC security notified Notre Dame Provost .James T. Burtchaell, C.S.C. 
"We can't discipline Notre Dame students in any way ... we can only refer them to the Provost," Kovatch said. 
Saint Mary's students found propping open doors or admitting men must appear before the college judicial board. 

Kol'atch: My men have been in­structed not to shoot at anyone. 
Kovatch further noted that all security personnel carry blank cartridges. Only Kovatch and one deputy are authorized to carry loaded guns. The deputy was not on duty last night, and Kovatch himself never carried a pistol. 



McGovern: 'Resurrect the O:mgress' 
by James M. Naughton 
(C) New York Times Washington, Jan. 21--Sen. 

(;l'orge McGovern declared today that liberals must "help to n•surrect the Congress is the United States is to escape 'one man rule.' " 
Ell'ven weeks after his presidential candidacy was buried in a political landslide and one day aftPr the inauguration of President Nixon for a second term, the Demof;ratic Senator said, "Now is the time for a determined effort to change not this person in the White !louse. but the power of the Presidency.'· 
McGovern thus gave another signal of the determination within Congress to reassert its con­stitutional authority. 
Battle lines were drawn last week over the President's refusal to spend more than $12 billion 
appropriated by Congress. 

Booth construction this week 
( 'onstruction of booths and the I'Ollt>ction of raffle tickets for the ;1nmral 1\lardi Gras charity will' ht>gin this week. Mardi Gras co­cha irm<•n .John Duffy and Joe Oliva announced yesterday. 

Tlw raffle. which offers a Buick Hivit>ra as first prize. represents the major source of income for the chairt~· effort. and Duffy said that flw 1\lardi Gras organizers were· "hopeful" of reaching the goal of j one hook sold per student. Unlike 1 lm:m·er· years.. the student seller prize will not be a car but a Suzuki :iOO motorcvcle. 
Tickets are to be turned in to the section leaders or hall captains in Pach hall. The winning ticket will be drawn by a mysterious campus personali t:v. 
Booth construction for the Mardi Gras will begin this evening, Oliva announced. Stepan Center will be open for construction from 7 p.m. until midnight at first, Oliva said, but the committee hopes to extend the hours to from 2 p.m. to mid­night. 

MARDI GRAS FESTIVAL KICK OFF PARTY South Bend Armbry Fri., Feb. 2 
Tickets on sale now at Student Union Ticket Office (at Dining Halls, Wed., Jan. 24) 
McGovern issued the challenge to fellow liberals in a lecture at Oxford University in Oxford England. The text of his addres~ 11·as made available in Washington. 
It marked the first time since 1\leGovern's defeat that he had sought to prescribe a course of action either for the divided Democratic party or for the liberals whose views he em­phasized in the 1972 presidential campaign. 
1 he Observer is published daily during the college semester ex­cept vacations by the students of the L'niversity of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchesed for $8 per semester ( 14 per year) from the Observer, lox Q, Notre Dame, 
Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 



MARDI GRAS BOOTH CONST,RUCTION 
Begins Tonight!! 
All Groups Sponsoring Booths Please Come To STEPAN CENTER, 7:00 P.M 

$6~i~le occupancy $B~~le occupancy 
No Notre Dame identification required. Effective any Fri., Sat. or Sun. thru June 15th, 1973. 
HICKORY INN MOTEL 
50520 U.S. 31 North South Bend, Indiana 46637 (219) 272-7555 3 miles North of the Tollroad 
Cable T.V., Air Cond., Phones. 
Send this ad to your parents 

Scholorshf~t 
Offer CLAS~ OF 1915 ONL V 
SCHOL-\RSHIP INCLUDES· 2-year 
tuition free1 $100 monthly. Book 
re._,s na1d. lab fees paid. etc 
DO YOll Q! 'ALIFY') Talk to the Pro­
fe~~or of Aerospece Studies fll the 
tl11lwr-:ity of Notrf' Damf' H111lding !'i (·a !I 28~-6635 for further informs­tlon llf vou're cla~s of '76, next VPH r· Is vour yPa r ) 
DEADLINE· Aprllcation deadhne is 
2.1 Fehruary 197::! Act Now' 
FINO YOURSELF A SCHOLARSHIP IN AIR FORCE ROTC 
1 
Monday, January 22, 1973 the observer 3 


Hesburgh reviews dvil rights work 
by Andy Schilling Staff Reporter 

Father Theodore Hesburgh was the guest speaker Saturday at tlw (;(•npral Meeting of the Indiana Slate Black Caucus. While speaking at the . luncheon. lll'sburgh discussed his past .w~rk on tlw Civil Hights CommissiOn and the problems facing minorities. 
The trilogy now standing bet­\H'Pn us and equality." he said, "are Education. Housing and Employment." He added that the primary problem facing America is dealing with its minority population. Hesburgh proposed his own solution to the housing problem. "Buying a house is like an~·thing dse in America--if you havP the money. you buy it. After :111. did you ever hear of anyone turning down a black person buying a Cadillac?" 

liPsburgh mentioned how far the Civil Hights movement has progressed since he first became a mPmber of the Commission in 1957. 
"Fifteen years ago there were ji,OOO blacks in the heart of 
Alabama  who  couldn't  vote,  
because  they  couldn't  even  
register."  In 1957, Hesburgh said  

SMC Assembly convenes 
by Mary Janka Staff Reporter 

Saint Mary's Student Assembly discussed possible academic calendars for the 1974-75 school ~·par. Open Lobbies. Male Visitation. :md the proposed Self­l{psponsible Hours for freshmen for the remainder of the semester. at a 1:00 meeting Sunday af­tl'rnoon. 
According to Sue Welte. Student Body President. St. Mary's academic calendar for the 1973-74 ~chool year will be identical to the onP used bv Notre Dame. 
llowever: two proposed calen­dars for the following year were 
Gen. Hal•g 
from thequestionaires. but will not 
• h N• K• • 

he presenting a request for change 
lsSlngerat 
this time ... she added.

Wlt lxon
I 
by Bernard Gwertzman 
(c) 1973 New York Times 
Washington. Jan. 21-Gen. Alexander 1\1. Haig, Jr. conferred with President Nixon and Henry A. Kissinger today shortly after rPturning from Saigon, where he ~ought approval of the agreement hping drawn up by the United Statps and North Vietnam to end thP Vietnam War. 
Tlw White House said that shortlv al'ter his arrival. General II aig · nwt for an hour with Kissinger. the President's adviser on national security. Then the two mPn met with Nixon, who \'Psterday. in his inaugural ad­~lress. sa.id the war was coming to an Pnd. 
The two men plan to see Nixon again. the White House said, bdore Kissinger's scheduled departure for Paris at 9:30 a.m. tomorrow for what may be the linal round of negotiations with Le Due Tho. the principal Hanoi npgotiator. 
ThP tPchnical experts working on thP details of the agreement met again in Paris today and American sources said that they would meel. again tomorrow. The Vietcong rPpresentative. Mrs. Nguyen Thi Binh. returned to Paris today and forPign minister Tran Van Lam of South Vietnam was flying there from Saigon. 
In a joint announcement Thursday. Hanoi and Washington said that Kissinger and Tho would n•sume their talks the following 
Tuesday  "for  the  purpose  of  
eompleting  the  text  of  an  
agreement."  

Nixon sent Haig to Saigon last wPPk to discuss the status of the negotiations with President Nguyen Van Thieu and to seek his concurrence as to negotiations entered their final phase. 
lie also briefed leaders in Laos. Cambodia. Thailand and South Korea on the negotiations. The 
gPneral. who is Army Vice Chief of Staff. had served until this month as Deputy to Kissinger on the National Security Council. 
As usual. the White House rl'fused to provide any substantive details on either Haig's discussions in Asia. or on today's meeting at the White House. 
Expectations have been high in Washington for many days. 
however. that an agreement is near. It has been assumed that "Jixon chose his words carefully yesterday when ~e used the ex­prPsented. Although both call for dasses to begin before Labor Day, Pach allowsformore breaks within thP semester than the present calendar. 
Assembly members compared and analvzed the two calendars suggPsti~g revisiOns and alterations which will be presented by Sue Oglesbee. Student Body \'icc-President. at the Academic ,\ffairs Cotmcil meeting this af­lt'rnoon. 
Open Lobbies. which was passed hv the Student Affairs Council l'Xperimentally for the remainder of last semester and was to be presented to the Board of Regents at their February meeting, will 


confers 
pression "as America's longest and most difficult war comes to an (•nd." 
Moreover. Vice President Agnew. in comments to newsmen at inaugural events last night and todav. said he was very optimistic about an accord soon. . 
There have been many reports from Saigon that Agnew wuuld go to South Vietnam next weekend to signify continued American support for President Thieu's government following the cease­fire. 
Agnew then asked about the 
rpports. said he could not comment 
on them. , 
Sm. Henry M. Jackson <D. 
Washington\ who has close con­
nPctions at the Pentagon. said 
\'('sterday that an agreement had 
;tlreadv been reached with Hanoi. 
All th;t was left. he said. was the 
tPchnical matter of putting the 
accord into proper language. 
It was not known how long 
Kissinger planned to spend in 
Paris. but from whas been said 
previously it seemed possible that 
an agreement could be initialed in 
a matter of dayf-. 

mntinue on a trial basis until the md of this semester. 
Spcurity reasons. explained \\'Plte. delayed the beginning of the l'xperimm t. and as a result. it was onlv in effect for two weeks. The lobbies will remain open for 24 hours daily and the proposal will be brought to the May meeting of the Board of Regents for final approval. 
The Regents will also consider an extended male visitation proposal in May. Although the visitation plan was scheduled for mnsideration at the February Ineeting. the question was deferred because of lack of time to make a proper presentation, Welte said. 
"The Task Force which has been \\'Orkin gon male visitation,"
has compiled statistics received 
Approximately 48 per cent of the student body returned the questionnaires regarding students' opinion of reform of the school's visitation policy. Response varied but most students favored a revision which woold allow for \isitation on weekend evenings, according to SBP Welte. Many students also expressed concern over security precautions to be taken. 
The proposal of self-responsible hours for freshmen. said Welte, was passed by the Student Affairs Cotmcil and will be .sent to the Board of Regents on February 3. 
Bv a unanimous vote, Assembly 
nwinbers allwed Sue Welte to 
rPma in on the Student Affairs 
Committee and placed Sue 
Oglesbee on the Academic Affairs 
Cotmcil. Although the student body 
president usually is a member of 
thP Academic Affairs Council and 
the Vice-President on the Student 
Affairs Committee. Welte, for­
nwrly vice-presidmt. wished to 
rPtain her old post. 
Assembly members concluded 
the mPeting with the decision to 
nwet this semester on Thursday 
Pvenings at 6:30 in Regina. 
students! return 
MARDI GRAS RAFFLE TICKETS 
books & money to your section leaders monday & tuesday 
CAC presents 



MENAHEM PRESSLER 
Classical Pianist in Concert 8 p.m. $2 at the door O'Laughlin Jan 23rd. 
it was necessary to go all the way something worth striving for-~ to President Eisenhower to obtain Pquality and justice for all residence for the Commission, Americans." which included several blacks. I<'ollowing the speech. the 
"Fifteen years ago there were · Caucus presented Hesburgh with a six blacks in public office from the rPsolution praising his early fight entire South. Now there are over for education and his opposition to 
1.000 --wP have one black on the busing and racism. ''We join Suprem(' Court. and a number in America in decrying the loss of the 
Congress." llesburgh predicted Civil Bights Commission." that "the path will be uphill over liPsburgh responded, "Comingtlw next few vears." from you. it means more than 
Iksburgh praised the Civil l'Oming from anyone else." Hights movement's work and lkfore the luncheon. the Caucus urgPd the Caucus to "be united n•ceived the reports of its 
hPhind ~·our leaders. and get your Education. Finance. Legislativelriends to help out: as long as ;111d Prison Committees. The tlwn•'s strong groups like this. l·:ducation Committee is dedicated \n'll hold on. Martin Luther King to lowering the black dropout rate ~aid. "WP shall overcome.' And we h~· working in public and parochial 
~hall overcome. There have been schools. tno mam· martvrs to this cause for Tlw Rlack Caucus has chaptersit to f;lil."Hesburgh ended his lol'atPd throughout Indiana, and 
spPech with the plea. "Somehow if llll'e!s monthly. Its members pay \OU want to be really great. get $10 nwmbership fees yearly. 

Campus thefts reported 
by Janet Longfellow Staff Reporter 

Two Saturday night robberies, one in Howard Hall and the other in the Observer office. highlighted the weekend for Notre Dame SPcurity. 
Ol'l'icer Jerry McGlynn. director of investigations at Security, rPported that the room burglary in I Inward Hall took place at about 
10:00 p.m. Prior to the robbery four local high school youths were seen downstairs in Howard, and it is suspected that they were n•sponsible for the entry into the unlocked room. Reported stolen \H're one tape player and a tape, two clock radios. and two dollars in change. 
At an unknown time late Saturday or early Sunday. a forced PnLtv occurred at the Observer l){isfness office. Approximately fiftv or six tv dollars were stolen in addition to' the damage. 
It is not known whether the two robberies were connected. and both incidents are open for in­\'estigation. 
I Ill 11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Any organization registered with the University wishing to show a film for the Spring Semester '73 please meet in the Student Union Services Office on Tuesday, January 23 at 3:30p.m. It will be short. 
IIIIIIIUIIIIUUIIIDIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 



Send THE OBSERVER home this semester 
It makes a great 
lining for the bird 
cage. for only $8.00. 
The Observer Subscription Dept. Box Q 
University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
Name _____________ 
Address _____________________ 
City___._____ State Zip 
Is this a subscription from last semester? Yes __ No __ 
If yes is this a new address? Yes_ No 
If yes what is the old address? 
' 
,' 1 
, 
l , 

, ~ 
, 
,1 ' 
1 
1
, 
~ 

1 1 
1 
.-------------------------------------------~--~-----­


THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER  
John Abowd  Dan Thornton  
Editor-in-Chief  Business Manager  
News: 213-1715  
Don Ruane Executive Editor  EditoriaI: 283-8661 Business: 213-7471  Joe Butler Advertising Manager  

Monday, January 22, 1973 

Tenure: Two Views 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are being challenged on the question of tenure from two different fronts but it looks like neither will be able to escape defending present tenure policies in court. This really isn't too surprising since the legal status and the economic implications of tenure are the subject of considerable around the country. 
At Saint Mary's the dispute centers around Dr. Paul Messbarger, an English professor who got caught in the changing of the guard. Before the Board of Regents took over as the governing body at SMC, Messbarger's position was relatively secure. As an outspoken critic of many decisions made during the last two years, however, the English professor has apparently been made a convenient example of how not to behave when approaching the critical tenure year. 
Messbarger's academic credentials 

are outstanding--department chairman 
for three years, one book published and 
winner of an award from the National 
Endowment for the Humanities. In light 
of these achievements, his request for an 
explanation of the refusal to grant tenure seems more than reasonable. 
In the Law School 

At Notre Dame the conflict is over in the Law School. The basic issue is still the same. Dr. Michael Mcintire wants to know why the tenure guaranteed him in 
r his original contract was subsequently cancelled. Mcintire was hired as an associate professor, a practice that is 
common in the law school because the 
salary that usually accompanies the 
normal entry rank of assistant professor 
is not enough to entice lawyers out of 
private practice. Because of his rank, 
Mclnttire's tenure decision is due at the 
end of the third year instead of after the 
sixth year. Now the university has 
cancelled his original contract and 
substituted a one year terminating 
contract. 

It's not the details of the tenure cases w hie h is at issue but the secrecy of the process. As long as the secrecy is preserved universities and colleges everywhere are open to the charge of capriciousness in their academic hiring policies. It is impossible to defend against the charge as long as people like Messbarger and Mcintire can make prima facie public cases to the effect that they should be given reasons for their dismissal. 
The elimination of secrecy is not a windfall gain for teachers denied tenure because when the university has good grounds for the refusal, it will be even harder to find another job. Still, the elimination of secrecy is necessary to completely evaluate the role of tenure. The courts will either vindicate or indict Notre Dame and Saint Mary's as the reasons for these tenure decisions become public. If the system is working properly, there shouldn't really be anything to hide. 
-John Abowd 
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:~:~:~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~===~=~=~=~:!:::::::::::::::::~:::::::~:::~:~:~:::~:~:~:~::::::::::::: 
Notes from Sorin 
to: 
T. M. Hesburgh 20 Dec. 1972 Notre Dame, Indiana 

Pulled wrong para-foil cord stop ended up at North Pole stop Claus afraid increase small aircraft, needs chaplain stop cant find blessing for reinceer, especially red-nosed kind stop beard much admired here stop 
Sarin 

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:~:~:~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:=:~=~=~=~=~=~=~:?.,~:::::::~:~:::;:~:~:::!:~:~:~ 
daanesbury 
1H6 f'RcS!f)cNI 15 ?RfJfli1!<JNG /0 Gille HIS 5P££CH NOIAJ, Hfl,Q.fl'f. /H$'
t816 ()f){J51/0N IS Wit-t.­
~ HR /V!X'ON' CHOOs& HIS 

~ GeN&R.ArtON OF P&ACC­
iH&.M&' 0~ H/5
NeW 

t;~arry 
ltleu, HOW11RJJ, /15 vov 
KNOW, THe P~&'SIPc/'1( HilS R£CEN!t.-Y 9e/1'N el<PReSf;!NB S0/16 INTeR£sr IN HORI1l­

MV F£U.OW 
H11RO-MJRK!NG
U'RD£RSHIP. .ft--1.-SAV 

/1){£) £-,t:JJI}­
f{t'U..-If!'/ TO 

Af}IPINGNfllt.-THIS ON& C177Z.6NS...
oowN. .. 

<2;,
~ 
:J: Guess ITS NICe 7Hfll TH&Y'R6 F!NRIA.-V ,qp/1t/­1lNG IT. IT MUST WWtJ P&&N VeRY U:WUV FOR YDVNG N!JON F~e/11\.S 

THtJ PAST Felt! •. so ro spc,qlf. VeARS. 
I I 

Oardian Knat Truth as a White Rose 


Ed Ellis 

.John Lester Curry. a young man of twenty-one years, was what most folks call a self-styled searcher. and on this particular morning he was engaged in the greatest search of his yet-unfulfilled young life. John was walking through the woods near his comfortable suburban home and. for the most part. he was thinking . 
. John was the type of person. and we all know a few. that profs like to call "sophisticated." friends call "deep," and cynics call a "p::;eudosophisticated snob," and early on this beautiful morning in mid-July. he was doing what comes natural to a budding philosopher, "·hich is to say that he was pondering the universe, and, in a detached sort of wav. those in it. 
Today's 'subject for serious thought was Truth (in neon lights in­<licated by a flashing arrowl, that noble realm to which every pseudosophisticated snob must eventually turn his deep pensive moods. in the hope. usually quite vain, that a flash of the sublime will somehow reveal to him the essence of existential reality. 
"Rousseau was way off." mused our young thinker, as he wiggled his bare intellectual toes in the shallow stream he was following. "Plato was eloser by far. but at times a bit obscure." 
A mockingbird began wailing to the left of the stream, and while .John's only thought was that the song was a shade pretentious, we might be tempted to suspect otherwise. In any case, it blended well with the crickets and locusts playing their summertime tunes to his right. The sky was a deep. dark blue, quite appropriate, it would seem, for a deep thinker with the truth-seeker blues. 
All the world below the sky was green. Green trees, green grass, green \\'Peds giving a greenish reflection to the creek; everything seemed green. from the marijuana plants to the bottles labeled Holling l{ock Pure Lager Beer. John had more than once tried alcohol and dope in his search for meaning in life, but then again he had more than once returned from the Patnassian heights with only a headache as souvenir from his trip. And headaches often go away. Besides, he was searching for Truth now.... 
A slight breeze had arisen in the past few minutes, and the warm air f'dt really good on John's chest. covered as it was by only a tee-shirt. About a hundred yards to his left, he spied a curious maple tree dominating a cluster of small bushes in such a manner as to suggest sonw sort of a medieval fortress, or at the very least a bastion of sonwthing. John knew the maple tree well, having rested within the hattlemPnts of the castle many times in the company of a bottle of wine. or a joint. or perhaps his girlfriend. To this haven of pensiveness .John directed himself. all the while continuing his quest for Truth. In nature. lw always seemed to feel a mite closer to the centre of the universe than at other times. Today, the combination of the beautiful morning. the troubled condition of his soul, and his keen sense of aloneness drove him to rare heights of philosophical and metaphysical t'cstasy. He could feel the power of nature surge through him as he watched the neighborhood crow flying across the deep blue sky. As he walked across the field. he felt closer and closer to the seat of Mother Nature's wisdom. His mind was tense as he concentrated on his thoughts. 
Then. just ahead of him. near the outskirts of the wooded castle, .John saw a rose bush that had previously escaped his notice. The bush lwld. almost as if by adhesive tape. dozens of small pink roses--and one. only one. pure white rose. 
"Significance." thought John excitedly. 
And so he stepped from the path that ran parallel to the stream, and n'aehed out for the white rose. But as he did this, his bare foot sunk to the ankles in a soft gushy material that one might suspect was not green lie wiggled his toes; a pungent fragrancy began battering at his startled nostrils. As he looked down at the source of his olfactory discomfort. John heard the old crow caw tauntingly from his perch high above the Rolling Hock bottles. From the corner of his right eye, he glimpsed the white rose. grinning, it seemed, at him. 
"Significance." he mused, his intellectual ecstasy completely shattered. "Shit. I'm not even alone." 
trudeau 
the observer 
Managing Editor: Joe Abell News Editor: Anthony Abowd St. Mary's Editor: Maria Gallagher Editorial Editor: Jerry Lutkus Features Editor: Rod Braye Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson Associate Editors: .. Bob Higgins, Ed Ellis 
Special Projects Editor: Dan Barrett Asst. Ad Manager: Patti Stobel Business Secretary: Ceil Popovich Subscriptions Manager: Art Ferranti Production Manager: Joe Wilkowski Circulation: John Woods 
Night Editor: Marlene Zloza Ass't Night Editor: Chris Sullivan Layout: Kathy Kelly, AI Rutherford (welcome back) Typists: Harry Chung, Mary Romer, Steve Roper, Bob Steinmetz Sports Night Staff: Jim Donaldson. 'Tom McKenney Pictureman: Jerome Ph ill ips and the Occult Circus Copy Editor: Ed Ellis Visitors. Mike Baum, Don Ruane (artist), Lefty, Vic, Mike Night controller: David Rust (including poor prin 
t. ..but... ) Bravo to the Breakfast Club 
Editorials printed in The Observer reflect the opinion of the writer on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial comment. 


Monday, January 22, 1973 the observer 
godspell: more than iust a play 
The cast of Godspell sing a familiar song during the distribution of communion: "Day by Day." (Staff photo by Jim Hunt). 
A cold rainy Sunday afternoon at the c;,xt''""'''""''·''' :· LaSalle Motor Hotel in downtown South , Ifl } ?i Bend: the setting for an impromptu · discussion by a few cast members of Godspell. the Broadway hit show that had played South Bend's Morris Civic Auditorium last weekend. But more than . that: a chance to meet the actors and actresses that. according to themselves, · actually create. as well as act in, Godspell; a chance to rap with the cast members on their views of the show and of the acting profession. 
They arrived late. The reason: a surprise <tppearance at Notre Dame's Sacred Heart Cathedral for the 12:00 Mass, an ap­pearance to add to the ceremony of the Mass with the music and sincerity of Godspe!l. 
"It was the first time a couple of us had ~IIIli··---'
t>ver been to a church," said Susan Morse. : "It was really a trip; it was very moving." f!'lllq~EIIfliiM~.-...;. 
"Yes. I thought it was great." agreed Jeff Winner. ''I'm not a Catholic. and that made it all the more interesting for me. I enjoyed the sermon. and I thought our role fit in so well." 
"The thing that surprised me so much," Susan emphasized. "was that it was very hip. you know?" · 
So what about the show itself? 
"I think it's important to a performer who has to do a show so many times as we do that he like it." Jeff said. lighting a cigarette. "I do. I enjoy Godspel! very much." 
Melanie Mayron spoke up. "Godspel! has a little bit of everything--a little bit of religion. a little bit of rock music, and that makes it appealing." 
"Yeah." added Jeff. "and the best part was that most of the little things we did ourselves--we wrote and created them. We had to improvise a lot of the bits as well." 
Melanie cited a Life magazine critical review of the play that described the musical as "a carefree beggar next to a rich Pharisee. compared to Jesus Christ Superstar." She leaned back. "That sorta says it right there." she said. 
. Jeff also sees the play as a bit more personal: "To me. it's a new experience, having done a lot of straight acting before. I'm content with it." 
For her. Melanie finds the show one "that ~·ou're not held down so much. If you have a different idea. you can try it." 
She has also found the show to be inducive to theatrical inspiration: "Some nights, I'll reel something totally different during one of the parables than I've ever felt before, and yet it would be right." 
Tom DeMastri sees the show as not quite so personal as an opportunity for an up and 

Jeremy Sage, who plays Jesus in Godspell, sings out while Melanie Mayron ac­companies him on flute. (Staff photo by Jim Hunt). 
coming actor. 

"Godspell's just another vehicle for me," he says. "It's just another thing, you know? It's something else I can dig, but it's just another thing." 
The oft-asked question of religious ten­dencies and their connection with the show was brought up. A couple cast members rolled their eyes. 
Tom said: "We've all had 1960 religious background. but I don't think any of us is too practicing." 
Jeff added: "I think most of us have our own ideas towards religion and Godspell. ·You can't really say if we all feel a certain wav towards it." The others nodded assent. 
The problem of audience reaction to the play was a subject in which the cast was verv interested. 
"We played Peoria once," Melanie began, "and it was like dead. you know? But at the end. everybody stood up and gave us a standing ovation. We were so amazed. And thev later told us that it was the first time in fifteen years that th~y've given a standing ovation to anyone." 
Greg. a member of the band that travels with the company, told of a strange law in Atlanta that forbade actors to go into the audience area. something the cast of Godspe!! do many times in the course of the play. "We were bouncing out into the or­chestra pit and everything. They even had armed guards around the stage." 
Susan described an incident at in­
termission at a Utica, New York, per­
formance as "freaky." During in­
termission. the cast members invited the 
audience up the stage for a cup of wine. It 
seemed that one lady violently disapproved, 
for she ran onstage and began knocking the 
t·ups out of everyone's hands and throwing 
the bottles of wine around the stage, all the 
while screaming. "How can you give wine to 
little children" and "Jesus is my savior." 
"We later found out that the woman was a 
teacher. her husband was a minister, and 
her daughter was an alcoholic," Susan 
recounted. 

A lot of the audience reaction rests on the 
auditorium itself. and the cast recognized 
this. 

"It's an intimate show," Tom insisted. 
"It shouldn't be played in a gigantic place. 
If it was played in a small house to a small 
audience, people won't get intimidated by 
the bigness of it." 

Melanie remembered shows in dome­
auditoriums with 5,000-plus seats. "It's a 
shame. you know?" she bemoans. "Who 
can enjoy it?" 

They compared the .Morris Civic 
Auditorium to a Broadway theatre house, 
and broke into a spontaneous round of ap­
plause for the Morris Civic. 

"The balcony's right there and everybody 
can see well; I really like it," smiled 
Melanie. 

The inevitable comparison to Jesus Christ 
Superstar came up, and it turned out that 
Susan had played the role of Mary 
Magdeline in a touring company once, roles 
she found "totally different." 

"This ( Godspell) is a company of actors," 
she said. "where in Superstar we had more 
~ingers and musicians. Itwas also very set. 
In this show. we created a Jot of what we 
did." . 

Jeff saw Godspe!l more sincere than 
Superstar. 

"I found Superstar to be very am­
biguous," he said. 

Melanie pointed out that Superstar began 
as a basically musical idea, whereas 
Godspe!! was originally a series of parables 
performed in small New York cafes, with 
joseph abel/ and maria gallagher 
different things." 
Susan is also a Jew. something that would 
seem very strange for a person who had 
accepted two Christian-like 1roles in 
Superstar and Godspel!. 
"I'm not a theologian," she stated. "I'm 
an actress. I like the music of Superstar, 
and the entire thing as a work of art. I just 
auditioned for it and I happened to get. The 
same with Godspel!, which came up right 
after my tour with Superstar. I auditioned 
on a whim." 
"Doing Mary Magdelene was a kick," she added. Someone mentioned the vigorous ·.:·.""~"g,,, movement on stage continually during the 

the music added later. "So already, one started out musically, one started out theatrically; they're two 

Little Bit:~ Screen 
art f•rranti 
The best film of this week airs on the Sunday and Monday night movies on 28 at nine nt>xt weekend. Lawrence of Arabia \\hich launched Peter O'Toole to fame and copped seven oscars in 1962 including best pietun• brings a complex hero to the screen amid a turbulent background of Palestine .. around World War One. David Lean· directed this monumental film and many of his trademarks can be seen in Lawrence as in two other films of his. The Bridge Over the Ril'er Kwai and Doctor Zhivago. For t•xampll'. in Lawrence. O'Toole walks away in the desert leaving his footprints in the sand. Omar Shariff (also in Lawrence of Arabia) leaves his footprints as a tern­porar~· vestige in the Russian snow in the samt> angle in Zhivago. This visually stunning film. like Patton should be viewed on a large screen color set or a great deal of it will be lost . Also featured in the cast are .lose Ferrer. Anthony Quinn. and Alec (;uinness. all Oscar winners. 
Tonight. part two of How The West Was Won airs on 28 with its multi-starred cast, brilliant score and thrills (the closing train chase is considered a classic action sequence and a stunt-man lost both his legs in its lilmingl. The frontier is tamed at nine ;tnd is better than the Elliott Gould fare on IIi ;1! the same time. I LOve My Wife is one of those I9i0 films that tried to cash in on (;mtld's mane and Bob and Carol and Ted and Alice with no emphasis on acting nor plot. 
Skip The Ha!!elujah Trail with Burt 
l.ancaster and Lee Remick Thursday at 
nine on 22. This so-called three hour comedy 
lags as Lancaster plays a colonel assigned to Hal'<? and Have Not with Bogart. "If you 
dl'liver booze to Denver and having to contend with the usual stock batch of In­clians and a traveling ladies temperance league. Watch ''Kung Fu" on 28 instead. 
The Unsinkable Molly Brown should be a delight for the good-old-American-musical fans among you or for those who would like a change of pace for a change. Debbie Be~'nolds and Harve Presnell cavort and ~ing their way in the old west to fame and a higher social position. Reynolds is great in bringing this broadway production to the screen <Tammy Grimes played Molly on Broadwavl and Peter Genera. who has l'horeographed a Notre Dame production or two. planned the dance routines for this flick also. If you enjoy the bloody, seedy, dirt~' old West. Warren Beaty and Julie Christie star in McCabe and Mrs. Miller on the campus next Friday and Saturday. ('heck posters t:or the time and place later this \I'Pek. 
Play Dirty on 22 Saturday is another war flick featuring Michael Caine in Africa tr~·ing to single-handedly tit seemsl wipe out l{ommel by destroying a fuel dump. Sounds to nw like the writers attempted to combine the scripts of Tobruk and The 
natt!e of the Bulge. Oh well. such is 
play. "That's the uniqueness of Godspell," 
Susan exclaimed. "It's unlike any other play in that sense. And it's a real challenge: we're the prop men, the set movers, the 
stage hands; we'reeverything, plus keeping the show moving." , Melanie nodded her agreemnt that the show was unique. "It appears to be the kind of show that is off the cuff." "And it seems to work," she and Susan added in unison. 
want me just whistle. You know how to whisH~ d"n't you? .lust pucker your lips and blow." Bogart made her his fifth wife.) il Yoko Ono "a disaster area in stereo". 8l ('loris Leachman "Whether in sportswear or dn•sses she always seems to lack one simple accessory... a thrift mart shopping bag". ~ll Alexis Smith "all the sex appeal of lit'nry Kissinger in an unemployment line". IOl Totie Fields "th·~ Badyear blimp in ~equins". and for making "the biggest splash of the year" Jackie Onassis for "doing more for the Italian magazine 
business than bikinis." 
Trivia Question: Mission Impossible has had a few of its original stars leave the cast over the vears. So. name the roles these stars play.ed: (A. l Stephen Hill. (B.) Martin Landau.(('.) Barbara Bain. (D.) Leonard Nimor~'. tE.l Leslie Warren. 
.\Jt!.I,L (·,) S!Jtld ('p JalJtl;).UOWtlUU!J ('J plll!ll U!lllllJ ('q sjjjjpg UtlQ ('tl 'ZJnQ tlJAJJJ.. 01 J,).\\Sll\' 
I tollvwood. The made-for-TV film is Go Ask Alic~ at 8:30 on~8 Wednesday with Andy (;riffith and William Shatner helping a high ~chool drug addict go straight. It is touted to lw a true storv. 
If any one can pick up channel 32 out of ('hicago The Magnificent Seven will make the first of its many airings a year in this area. Forty Mexican bandits and four of the 
srvPn bite the dust at 11:30 Thursday. 
As far as current movies go, catch Deliverance if it ever returns to the area or <1t' your homes. I guarantee that you will be lwld spellbound in its tension. 
cinematography. and acting. If The Godfather (which has already made more monev than Gone With the Wind) wasn't a cinch. to receive best picture, Delil'erance \lealuring Jon Voight and Burt fi eynolds) \\ould. 
Tr"i1·ia Notes. A couple of weeks ago fashion designer Mr. Blackwell came out 1rith his Ten Worst Dressed Women list plus one. For the sake of those who missed it. do not know the full list. or who would like to laugh again. here it is. All quotes are Black­well's. I )){aquelWelch" ... how do you dress 
. a Sherman tank?", 2) Julie .\ndre\\'s''She drt>sses like the kind of woman ... evervman...wants.. for his maiden unele". :ll 1\li;{Farrow "Around the world in eighty mistakes". 4) Princess Margeret "till' kind of style that makes Londoners grateful for their fog", 5) Ali McGraw "packs all the glamour of an old wornout srwaker". (i) Lauren Bacall "the epitome of drab... if you want her just yawn" (a play on ,,·ords from Bacall's classic line in 1944's To 



the observer Monday, January 22, 1973
6 

Letters ...on Lewis Hall, peace, and people 
lewis Hall 
l•:ditor: 
This letter is in response to the front-pagt• story of the Jan. 18 !'dition of The Observer, which l'Onel'l'ns the departure of a female f,.!raduate student involved in a parietal violation. 
Thank (;od for blockheads whose moral s<•nse has been so twisted thatlh<'y feel a moral obligation to r<'porl a woman for having a man 1nlwr room. Thank God for warped and outdatPd rules which prohibit ~ueh \'isitation. Thank God such lwinous erimes of passion do not go llllnotiePd on the Notre Dame 1·ampus. Thank God for dedicated S<'<"Urit~· officers who not only op<'ratP in their official capacity, hut also provide the accused with msull ing n•marks which stem from lhPir own archaic moral h<'liefs. Thank (;od that harsh punishmPnts are rendered in cases ~u<"h .1S this. Thank God that the IPading Catholic University in the na I ion--indeed the world--is hl<•ssed with events like those of last month. Now we can rest l'asi ly. for we will no longer be uwnac<'d by the problem of this loos<' and immoral woman's pn•st•nce----THANK GOD! 
B~Ton H. King J4i Alumni Hall 
l•:ditor: 
With all of the so-called concern for <"ivil liberties and the rights of lh<' individual being espoused by most Pduca tors today on college l'ampuses (Notre Dame includedl, how is it possible that a University <"an invade the residence of a ~·otmg woman. question her morals. slander her reputation, at'l'US<' her of crimes that are l'ireumstantial at the very least, and then expel her from the university. all without due respect for lwr rights as a person'? Can it lw that we can't live up to our dn•arns'? 
Bob (;riffin Tom Ward <'avanaugh Hall 
Editor: 
I find it hard to believe the way SN·urity Director Pears has handll'd the so-called "parietal" \'iolation in Lewis Hall. He n•spondl'd to an anonymous tip about a "parietal" violation but l'arl~· last semester he found it lllliU'l'essar~· to respond to an anon~·mous l'all about explosive dl'\'iees lwing planted in Pangborn llall and Fisher Hall. If this is the wa~· lw shall order his priorities, ma\'bt• it is about time that the l'ni.\'l'rsit~· start looking for a rPplacPmPnl for Mr. Pears. 
Pat 1\kLaughlin 
Pangborn Hall President 
-----------~ 
ForYourConvenience 
MR. BARON 
Men's hairstylist for­merly of Continental has moved to a new location. Cutting and styling ND student's hair for 5 years. Special every Monday and Tuesday--Cut and shape only $3.00 
VIVIAN'S SOUTH phone 291-0143 
l•:ditor: 

What are we getting to? The way 1\lr. Pears acted in his raid in Lt•wis llall and the silence of the Notre Dame administration ap­pt•ars to prove that most university officers believe that a student's eareer. in this case a Lewis Hall graduate student. should be destroved when the "child disobeys" a rule that applies to the other undergraduate halls, and not to J.pwis llall where the incident and authority abuse took place. 
And this is a Catholic institution wlll're people should be un­dl•rstanding and "problems" are n'solved with logic and justice and not with prejudice and emotion. 
W<' students should now feel 
sl'cure knowing that we have such 
a hrav<'. intelligent and thoughtful 
man as (;randpa Pears watching 
over liS. 
Luis .1. Cabral 
Peace 
Editor: 

Peace in Vietnam appears to be 
near. An end to this war has oc­
eupied the energies of many in our 
<"ornmunity. including Father 
I IPsburgh and large numbers of 
facultv and students. I think it 
tlwrer'ore appropriate to mark the 
oeeasion on campus. and I have 
asked that the bells of Sacred 
llParts Church be pealed when 
official word of a peace settlement 
is announced. Let the bells sound 
for us joy and thanksgiving ... as 
\\'l'll as a rededication to the 
strenuous work of preserving 
peaee. 

( Hcv. l James T. Burtchaell, C.S.C. l'rovost 
Ellis column 
Ed Ellis: 
Re: your rx for the Four 
Horsemen. 

You are so right. Going to the Pitt 
game stoned was a delight, 
finishing off a Kesey novel an 
illumination. laughing with the 
people down at Nickie's was nice 
too. and conspiring for romance 
and sex makes the future tolerable 
once again. It would be something 
quite fantastic to keep moving in 
this direction and build upon these 
piddling little events. But don't 
~ ou know that people don't come 
lwre to learn like that? They come 
here to get into graduate schools, 
into eomfortable jobs. into Orange 
Bowls. and into the hearts of im­
pressionable young ladi\'S. As a 
wise man recently remarked upon 
m~· telling him where I go to 
school. "Oh yeah? That's a good 
plaee to be from." Exactly. Just avoid gettingtrapped there for four ~·pars because you may experience a sense of slow decay, soul rot, you might say. Certainly nobody has eome here to live life for its present fulfillment. to work at forging nwaningful human -experience. 
Kerin's Opinion 
by Ted Kerin 
··~ 
.1AN.73 
1ons 
~IN'fHI5 
I5SUE"'-... 
CDEO ar(l~ 
'le:Lt-5 ALL : 
:~OAV£ 
IHtt'l MY 60D}llt!
"'fiow COULD 11£-L-l, 
Hlt1--ouR LOVE 
WAS A BUST?~/'' 

OIN SAL..£ NOW AT N£WS$ NOS!!! 
Now. I know that's a bullshit term ( meaningfuf human experiencel, so I should clarify. For openers, nwaningful human experience is not studying 5,6, or 7 nights a week, watching 40 hours of T.V. a week, saturating your gut with beer on Saturday night, writing letters of loneliness to scattered friends, suffering manic depression when the football team loses, and all the other various activities that make Notre Dame the sad place it is. I would rather expect to find meaningful human experience in people working hard with other people. people planning and doing with other people: developing good times and memories with other people. which requires hard work, dedications. and which extends a person's awareness of people. That's what meanmgful humar. t•xperience is. And if there is one word which will never capture what Notre Dame has been for me it is people. In that respect, in its 1humanity. Notre Dame is a failure. 
So while you know the score, Ed. with is too incredibly hopeless, and Iknow how great it would be to Darrel l{oyal not withstanding. dance away the good times in spite 
a sympathizerof this mess. it just ain't gonna <name withheld for personal
happen. What we've got to work reasonsl 

a Mardi Gras Concert with 

r---------------------------------------------, 
SANTANA

LOOKING FOR A CAREER? 
BECOME A MONTESSORI TEACHER 
Friday, February 9 at 8:00 pm 

MONTESSORI CENTER OF MICHIGAN 2490 AIRPORT ROAD 
Tickets: $5.50, 4.50, 3.00 

DRA.YTON PLAINS, MICHIGAN 48020 313-673-0007 
First ticket sale today at 4: 30 in -the Fiesta Lounge of LaFortune Center and at the ACC 

SUMMER STUDY, GRADUATE AND 
Ticket Office (9-5)UNDERGRADUATE PROGRAMS, COLLEGE CREDITS 
Limit of 8 tickets per person

WRITE FOR BROCHURE 
•.. presented by the Student Union ...

APPROVED AND AFFILIATED BY AMERICAN MONTESSORI SOCIETY 
Monday, January 22, 19'73 the observer 
7 

Inaugural Address analysis 
Nixon hints dismantling of liberal programs 
by John Hervers 
(c) 1973 New York Times 
Washington, January 20-In his second inaugural address framed in the most general of language President Nixon sketched his determination to bring about for the next four years a nationalgovernment patterned after his philosophy of a disengagement of government a rt•liance on self help at home and abroad and a limit to American involvement in foreign affairs 
lie did this by taking the language and approach that .John \<'. Kennedy had used at the same podium 12 years ago but turned the meaning around so completely that he repudiated the philosopny of government that democratic presidents had brought to Washington for four decades. 
l'llixon indicated that in the next four vears he would attempt to compiete the dismantlement of the 
(;real  Societv  that  he  inherited  
from  Lvndon  B.  Johnson  
lot1r years ago.  Confident  

in the aftermath of his landslide \'ietorv of last November, the l'rt>sident pegged his appeal a \most exclusively to those who had \'Oted for him. 
Ab!-il'nt from the address was the ~PsturP to the liberals that he had madl' Iour years ago when he said "Thosl' who have been )pft out. 1\"t' will try to bring in. Those (pft lwhind. we will help to catch up. 
Hather. Nixon reinforced his post elt>ction image as a Preside:tt in isolation and loneliness ~overning in DeGaulle fashion for tlw long judgments of history. 
-"At Pverv turn we have been propriated funds for a wide range or domestic problems The tone of the speech was grave and stern, even though the delivery was without much show of emotion. 
The speech was not only the president's ideas but mostly his own language. He had worked on it for long hours. for six days off and on in his waterfront home at 
·Key Biscayne, Florida. where he had only a skeleton staff. and for the last two days at the Wh1te House. lie drew from a number of inaugural addresses of the ;waaaaa.a t least bad to Theodore Rossevelt who in 1905 
prodaimed "The manlier and hardier virtues." 
1t was drafted while the president was under a stream of criticism. both from the right and ldt. for his self isolation at a time when negotiations aaaaaof a Vietnam peace reached a critical stage and after Nixon had ordered the Christman season bombing of Hanoi and Haiphong. During this 
period Nixon did communicate, through limited interviews and through his aides. but Ill' llourished in the spirit of crisis ;md was not disturbed by the mountin~ criticism. 
'l'lllls the address reiterated his foreign and domestic polocies and underlines his determination to conduct the ~overnment along the lines of the mandate he believes ­was given to him in tht. J presidential election last November· 
On ,Jan. 20,1961. President Kennedy said:"Ask not wha'c your country can do for you. Ask what success of liberty." 

Nixon, after declming that the long warinVietnam was coming to an end. said "The time has passed when America will make every other nation's confict oour own, or make every other nation's future our responsibility or presume to tell the people of other nations how to manage their own affairs." 
Then the man who had been narrowly defeated by John Ken­nedv in 1960 moved to his central theine. observing "Abroad and At 1\ome the time has come to turn away from the coodescending policies of paternalism-of 
"Washington knows best." " 
This was tempered somewhat by his statement that the new po11c1es would not con­stiture"a retreat from our n•sponsibilites. rut a betterway to progress.' 'The responsibilities, but a better way to progress 
This  was  tempered  
so1r.ewhat  by  his  statement  that  
the  new  policies  would  not  

,·onstitute"a retreat from our responsibilities. but a better way to progress." The thrust of the speech however. was for class 
~overnment. 
The address was in keeping too with the new shape that Nixon has ~iven theexcutive branch since his rP-Plection. He has weeded out those officials who had a political eonstituencv of their own and who in the first 'term brought diversity and eontroversy-men like George Hornney. a former governor of Michigan, and Melvin R. Laird, a former Wisconsin representative, who were cabinet members and replaced them with little known 

The midwinter weather on 
the Florida 

b(•aches pro vid~>d plenty of "fun in the sun" 
we will do for othen; by what they will do for themselves." 
"That is why," he continued, "I offer no )X'Om ise of a purely government solution for every program. We have lived too long with that false promise. In trusting too much in government we have asked of it more than it can deliver. This leads only to inflated expectations. to reduced individual effort and to a disappointment and frustration that erodes confidence both in what government can do and in what people can do." 
There was a marked contrast between his address today and that of four yearn ago,afterhe won by a slim margin over Hubert H. Humphrey. Then, in a longer, more detailed address, he ap­pealed for racial reroncilia lion and said. "We shall plan now for the da v when our wealth can be trans fer red from the destruction of war abroad to the urgent needs of our people at home." 
Saturday . after saying the nation was on "the threshdd of a new era of peace." he said. "we have the ehance today to do more than ·ever before to make life better in Anwrica-to ensure better t'<lucation. better health, better housing, better transportation, a deaner environment to restore n•spect for· law, to make our eommunities more liveable, to ensure the God-given right of l'very American to full and equal opportunity." 
Rut the means he described was not for the diversion of funds from the war in Southeast Asia to domestic needs for self-help am responsibility. Calvin Coolidge in 
his 1925 inaugtn'al said, "Economy 
is idealism Ill its most practical 
form." Nixon seemed to be saying 
much the same thing today when 
he said, "Government must learn 
to take less from people so people 
ean do more for themselves." 
There were, of course, 
similarities in the speeches that 
Nixon delivered four yean; ago am 
today. One of the most-quoted lines 
in 1969 was that urging Americans 
to lower their voices and "stop 
shouting at one another," an ap­
peal that was followed by violent 
antiwar protests. Vice-President 
Agnew's attacks on "radiclibs" 
and the news media and the 
raucous political campaigns of 
1970. 
Saturday, Nixon repeated the theme for less invective. He ca lied for "l'ivility and decency" and a "New levelofrespect for the rights and feelings of one another and for \he individual human dignity which is the cherished birthright of Pverv American" At the same time·. he lashed out in an indirect way at that segment <i the left that has become bitterly disillusioned with the United States. 
"Our children have been taught to be ashamed of their country, ashamed of their parents, ashamed of America's record at home and of its role in the world.'' lw said. 
The address made it clear, as have the President's actions and II'Ords since November 8, that the executive branch for the next four ~·ears will be led to put in force the "mandate" that Nixon read into the election results 

CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 
Wanted 2 or 4 general admission tickets to UCLA game. Call 5185 or 6791. Thanks. 
Desperately need 4 UCLA tiX.· Norm 1502. 
Need 2or 3 UCLA tickets. Thanks. Kevin 1329 
OVERSEAS JOBS FOR STUDENTS-Australia, Europe, S. America, Africa. Most professions, summer or full time, expenses paid, sightseeing. Free information. write, TWR Co. DPpt. F2, 2550 Telegraph ave., BPrkeley, CA 94704. 
STUDENT TO DISTRIBUTE VERY UNUSUAL COMPUTER OAT I NG FORMS. $400-$600 month. WRITE BOX 508 ROULDER, COLO. 
Need to hire students as readers. For information and interview call Marc '"tt 8539. 
Need UCLA B Ball tix. call Scott 1791 or see in 1105 Grace. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost: Silver watch with black band and safety pin on dec 10. please contact Mary Beth. 5366, 537 R.N. SMC 
Lost Gold wire rim glasses in red print case somewhere in the mud. Mary 232-6269. 
NOTICES 
Crypt Record Store-New $s_98 albums only $3.92. Store hours · are 1-6. We will deliver to your room, phone 233-4993. 
Join the Flying Club save up to 50 
,per cent. Flying ·Club's own plane. Save up to 100 per cent on qround .school. Meeting Jan 222, 7:30, Rm 12 Aero Build. 
Tt1e K<~rate Cr·eed l come to you with only Karate ('mply !lands. I have no weapons; but should I be forc.ed to defend mysel(. ·.my principals or my llor~or, Should It be a matter of life or death, right or wromg, Then here are my weapons-karate-my empty hands. Join the Notre 
Dame Karate Club, Call Randy 
614l. 
Tile Ombuds-man Service resumes full operations on Monday January 22. It soffice witI be manned from 9:30AM to 5PM Monday thru Friday. As for Sunday Evening Service, it will remain cf.osed for the time being. 
FOR SALE 
1971 FORD BRONCO gurumobile V 8 radio. Will go anywhereEspecially accross campus. Call Paul 234 6687 
For Sale-Ampex 87R Am -Fm stereo cassette system Excellent condition. Cheap Must sell call Bob 2140 
Car For Sale 64 Dodge Wagon Custom 880, Excellent running condition. Good body. S35u. 234­7794. 
Tmnis and Sports equipment at discount prices· Limited supply 0f Adidas tennis shoes. Chris 3463 
For Sale Smith Corona Galc:... i II manual typewriter. $45. 259-9266 after 7 pm 
For Sale. Notre Dame 1acket: perfect condition: size 48 $13 half bookstore price. Call Herb 8220. 
W('Stinghouse and Silnto Compact R('friqerators. Discount prices to N D SMC students and faculty. Many models available for Lm ml'diate free delivery. Call Tom 
234 0578 or 232 2818. 
68 VW in excellent condition -$1000 Call 232-3631 after 5 pm. 
Stereo System Ptoneer SX 9000 with reverb, Dual 1219 Sony 252 deck, 2-RDC4 Spkrs; $850-will sell atl or part. Call Tim evenings 232· 8661 
PANDORA'S BOOKS has used books for: Am St 357; 560; Art 152; 
Col Seminar 321; 182; Engl. 109; 180; 186; 311; 314; 322; 326; 345; 381; 383; 384; 385; 386; 388; 391; 392; 394; 405; 486; 525; 526; 574; 578; 684. 
G.P. 282; 382; 482; 242; 342. Gov't 342; 418. History 112; 228; 350; 365; 402. 
'Theo 110; 111; 208; 212; 223; 226; 238; 250; 413; 416. Phil 101; 201; 231; 233; 241; 254; 275; 281; 345; 305; 347; 373; 379; 400; 426; 427. 
FOR. RENT 
'Bedroom for rent in private home one mite from campus. All privileges of comfortable. home including cooking and laundry. 272 2445 alter 8 PM 
PERSONAL 
Arthur Pears-Keep your shirt on. Please! 
• 


the observer Monday, January 22, 1973 
ND rips Dayton,wins 5th straight 
Irish climb fo 6-6; face rugged Duquesne tonight in Pittsburgh 

\'Pry wPIL had a balanced attack,
by Jim Donaldson 

hit the boards. ran well and did a· 
Sports Edrtor 

supPr job on defense." Notrp Damp's chief defensivE!
Combir)ing balanced scoring with concern was stopping the Flyers';m aggressive defensive effort. 

star guard. Don Smith, normally aNolr(• Dame's vouthful basketball dPadly shooter who entered the!Pam romJ)('d io its fifth straight gamP with a 25 point scoring1il'lor~· Saturday afternoon at the av(•rage. The Irish tried to stop the ,\( T. blasting the Dayton I<'lycrs, little< (i-0 l guard's outside bt>mbing 
'I..J-!}ll, 

hy using the 6-!l Crotty on the point 
:\II l'i\'P Irish starters---Gary of tlwir zone and the move worked 1\t·okaw ..John Shumate. Gary beyond Phelps' expectations. Novak. I'PIP Crotty and Dwight "Coach Phelps told me to stay < 'lay---scorPd in double figures as dosP to Smith and warned me not Not rP 1>a nw postPd its highest to go up with him," Crotty ex­point total of the season while plainPd. Forced to shoot over ('\'Pning its rceord at 6-6. Brokaw Crotty. who usPd his size and toppPd all scorers with 20 points, quickness to good advantage, Shunw te had 1\1, Novak and Crotty Smith hit on onlv three of 22 field tosst>d in Ia apiece and Clay added goal attempts and scored a mere 1:.!. The Irish also turned in their six points. top dl'ft•nsive performance of the "PPIPr did a great job," Phelps I Par. hotlwring the Flyers with an acknowiPdged. In addition to his ;1ggrpssivP zom•. scoring and solid defensive play. 
Crottv also led the Irish in!\lost Notn• Dame games this rebminding, grabbing 17.
ll'intt•r han• been nip-and-tuck With Sn'lith shut off, the Flyer;1ffairs hut the Irish were in control oii'Pnse sputtered and they justalmost· all the way Saturday. A couldn't keep pace with the Irish.

rebound shot by Crotty with 12:10 ll'ho shot :lO percent from the field. 

to go broke an 11-11 tie and the Tlw setback left Dayton, whichIrish. who npver trailed in the shot only 32 percent. with a 5-9gamt>, steadily increased their record.

lPad. Notre Dame held an 11-point momentum. they kept coming at
"Tiw whole game was just a
lml~· at half-time, 41-30, built its us and didn't let up."
disaster." Fiver coach Don
advantage to 16 early in the second Donoher said. · "We had break­Both teams were sluggish at theha II. and coasted from there. 

downs everywhere. both of­outsPI and it wasn't until 1:37 had 
"I'm vt>ry happy with the win," ff.'nsively and defensively. They elapsed that the first points were said a smiling coach "Digger" played an ex.cellent ballgame and scored. Brokaw hitting a 17-foot l'lwlps. "Wt> executed our offense \\'<' didn't. Once they got the jumper to put Notre Dame in 
leers split at Mich. Tech 
by Greg Corgan 

· \::t;.i:i:JJ:!iii/////Jiii/!1/jjijj
Hoaring back Saturday night with .· an overpowering, impressive hockey performance, coach Lefty Smith's icers managed to over­come an opening night loss and salvage a split with Michigan Tech at Houghton in an important eight­point series. 
Mter snapping Notre Dame's l'in•-game WCHA winning streak Fridav night. the Huskies met \\'hal ~pemPd an entirely different Irish squad the following evening. 
Notre Dame dominated play Saturdav. thanks to the out­standrng. efforts of goalie Mark 1\ronlwlm and winger Ian Williams. Kronholm allowed only one Tech score and registered 37 saves and Williams tallied three goals and had two assists in IPading the Irish to a 6-1 win. 

I >d'Pnse was critical in the first gaIn(' of the series and the Irish just didn't have enough of it. Ian Williams. shown scoring here against Colorado College, had the "hat I.Pading. 3-1. 17 minutes into the trick" in Notre Dame's 6-1 victory Saturday at Michigan Tech. ~Peond period. Notre Dame 
however. until four minutes into second period as with the exception 
~lacked off and the Huskeis ex­the final period. Molt tallied at of a last minute Huskie score,ploded. Tech came up with two :1:00 and D'Aivise scored again at 1\ronholm hardly broke into a 
scores in the last three minutes of :1::19. D'Aivise then completed his swPat. Bill Nyrop. Curry, Bill 
tlw seeond period and registered hat trick with a controversial Gn•en and company played ex­l'ivt• more goals in the third stanza penalty shot at 3:50. the Irish con­
cellent defense as 
lwfore the Irish scord two late Ikfenseman Steve Curry was 
tinued to conyrol play . Williams goals to m:1ke the final score 8-5. cited for the alleged violation when· picked up his second score of the With the win on Saturday Notre a 1\1 ichigan Tech slap shot hit him Pvening with an assist from Pat llamP upped its WCHA record to 9-in the creases and dissappeared. 
Conroy exactly six minutes into the 
7 and 22 points. Overall. the Irish Although Curry had done nothing second period.art' 11-11. Michigan Tech dropped illegal. a penalty shot was awar­tWith mPmories of Friday's gameto 7-6 in the league. with 18 points. ded. Huskie coach John Macinnes 
fresh in their minds. the Irish keptI<'or the first 37 minutes of play even admitted to not un­the pressure on and widened their Fridav the Irish defense was ex­derstanding the call. As things lead midway into the last period ofePllen.t. The forwards were back­
turned out. this was the deciding play. when Williams popped in his checking and the defensemen were goal and the rest of the Huskie 
third marker of the night with 
breaking up passes and blocking scoring was merely insurance. assists from Mike Dunphy and shots effectively. Two power play l\1ott finished his hat trick and Conroy. The high scoring line of goals by f:ddie Bumbacco and a (;raham wise tallied at 9:19 to Noble. Bumbacco, and Williams tall1· by Larry Israelson, sand­dose out Tech's offense. Williams accounted for the fifth Irish score,
'' iel1ed around a Darwin Mott added two goals Ia ter in the third Noble getting the tally with 31 score. gave ND a 3-1 advantage period. making the final score a bit SE.'conds left play. Bumbacco
to midway through the second period. more respectable. 
capped the scoring with only eightBut the Huskies. always tough at The play of Mark Kronholm seconds left. that goal coming with home. started an offensive binge highlighted Saturday night's help from Mark Steinborn andll'ith four minutes left in the period contest. Posting 16 saves in the Green. 
that lasted until the nine minute first period, one which cost him Kronholm again was brilliamt in mark of the final session and saw 
four stitches. the Notre Dame the period, recording 12 saves,them score seven unanswered goalie completely stymied the bringing his total to 37 for the night goals. high-powered Huskie attack. and 60 for the two game weekend
Bob D'Aivise picked up his first of .John Noble led things off with a series. three tallies for the evening with power play goal with 11:34 gone in However. neither Kronholm nor lfi: 50 left in the second stanza and, the initial stanza and Williams 
the other ND icers will have a 11ith 45 seconds remaining. Mike followed with his first of three with chance to take it easy for a while Zuke tied the game with a 45-foot 25 seconds to play. 
because Smith will have them slap shot over Kronholm's Hedeeming themselves for the working hard this week in shoulder. previous night 's performance the preparation for the upcomingThe Irish weren't out of it, defenseman took over in the 
battle with Michigan State. 
front.Aithough the Flyers never 
took the lead. they stayed close for 
most of the first half and trailed by 
onlv three. 21-18. after Mike 
s~-l~·ester's three-point play with 
7::!1 remaining. 
Shumatp eountered with a three­
point play of his own 15 seconds 
latt•r and Novak quickly added a 
layup to make the score 26-18 and 
give the Irish some breathing 
room. 
Dayton threatened again late in the half when Grigsby rwltPd a 

shot from the corner and a tip-in to 
bring the Flyers within five. 33-28, 
\l'ith a little over three minutes to 

go but Crotty and Clay had buckets 
and Brokaw made a couple of free 
throws to put Notre Dame ahead 
h~· 11 and Dayton didn't come close 

Ihereafter. 
Novak. who scored seven straight 

points for the Irish on three driving 
layups and a foul shot around the 

six-minute mark. was the top 
point-getter in the first half with II. 
Shumate and Brokaw each had 10 

ll'hile S~·lvester and J.D. Grigsby 
led the Flyers with eight apiece. 
After Brokaw and the Flyers' 

.John VonLehman exchanged 
baskets at the start of the second 
half. a free throw and a basket by 
Shumate and a Crotty two-pointer 
upped the Irish lead to 16, 48-32 
\l'ith just over five minutes gone. 
(;rigsby dropped in four points for 

Davton to cut the Notre Dame 
m;lrgin to 12. but then the Irish 
\I'Pnt on a spree. outscoring the 
i<'l~·ers 19-2, to put the game away. 
Novak stated the scoring binge 
ll'ith ajumperfrom the foul line at 
t:l:15 and Brokaw finished it off ll'ith a jumper shot just over four minutes later. Only a Grigsby layup interruped the Notre Dame flow of points as the Irish, led by Brokaw's four baskets. ran off to a H7-:!!l lead. 
Phelps. assured of the victory. 

t•ventually used all 14 players 
dressed for the game but the Irish 
substitutes showed no more mercy 
than the starters and opened up the 
garm•'s widest margin. 90-52, with 
I:22 remaining. 
Notre Dame figures to face a more difficult task tonight, meeting Duquesne in Pittsburgh. The Dukes boast a 8-4 record, are considerPd to be one of the stronger dubs in the East. and haven't lost 
a home game this season. 
Powerful center Lionel Billingy Ui-9l. who averaged 21.6 points and t4 rebounds a game as a sophomore last year. again leads the Dukes. Guard Ruben Mon­tanez <6-2), 16.8 ppg last season, and Jack Wojdowski, a better­than-50 percent shooter who averaged 13.2 ppg a year ago, could also pose problems for the Irish. 
Sophomores Kip McLane and Oscar Jackson. up from last year's frosh squad that averaged 109.6 
ppg. round out llw starting five. 
"ThP~'rP a V<'ry tough. very ph_,·sit'al !Pam." according to l'la•lps. and inl'lude a win over .Jacksonville in their eight vic­torit•s. (ianw lime in the Pitt­~llurgh ('ivie rmter is !l o'clock. 
Ball Sf. fops NO trackmen­
by Tom McKenney 
The Notre Dame track team 
opPnl'<i iL<; season I<'riday night 
and. in spite of the fact that the 
Irish were narrowly defeated. 70­
!i1. by visiting Ball State, the meet 
lwld many pleasant surprises for 
Notre Dame's new track coach 
Don Faley and the partisan home 
t'rowd. 
t•:lemPnts of the new and the 
familiar Wl're both essential to the 
Irish performance. Senior Tom 
1\kMannon msily won the 60 yard 
high hurdles and picked up a 
second in the triple jump and a 
third in ttx.> :HXl yard dash to 
t'Omplete what has become. for 
him. a typical performance. A new 
addition to the Irish squad, Fresh­
man Bob Schotts. collected 13 
points. The Connecticut high 
school 440 champion. Schotts 
pickPd up a first in the 440-yard 
dash. a secood in the ~0-yard dash 
and ran a leg oo the winning Notre 
Dame mile relay team. 
The Irish captured only six of fifteen first places and appeared 1n•ak in the field events, where they could manage just one first place. Freshman AI Wojciak prevented a shutout when he todt first in the shot put with a heave of 4\)'1". 
Both Mike Gahagan and Mike llouslev collected wins in ther respective events with final lap "kicks" that pushed them past their op(X)nents. Gahagan's vic­tory in the 1.000 yard run and Housley's in the ~0 yard run were the only places taken by Notre Dame in those events. 
Ball State standout Steve Wynder took first in both the mile and two mile nms. but the Irish captured bdh second and third in both of these events. Housley todt second in the mile and was followed by teammate Dan Dunne who was third. Dunne bounced hack to finish second in the two mile run with Jeff Eichner running third. 
In the flO-yard sprint event Notre Dame halfbacks AI Samuel arxl I•:ric PE.'nick finished second arxl third. respectively. 
The Notre Dame mile relay team of &.'hotts. Gahagan, Don Creehan and Bill Phillips covered the distance in :!:28. 3 to take first in the night's only relay event. 






