---------~---~~--~ 
On The Inside 
kazoo band for hockey 
games ... page 3 St. Mary's security --lMottng ... page 6 
Vol. VII No. 66 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Thursday, January 25, 1973 
LBJ eulogized by Hesburgh
• 
by Tom Mirabito 
Staff Reporter 
The late Lyndon Johnson was "a complicated man. yet simple in his devotion to people," said University President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh in memorial services yesterday in Sacred Heart Church. 
Drawing from personal encounters, Hesburgh told how Johnson's concern for the common man superseded his desire for personal glory. llesburgh quoted the words of wisdom Johnson would give as adivce to freshmen Senators and Congressmen. "The most important thing you ean do is vote for the people and the ideals of the oeoole." 
Vietnam a blemish 
Notre Dame's President also said that it was a tragedy that President Johnson's work in helping the underprivileged was overshadowed by our country's involvement in Viet Nam. He also noted that Johnson's untimely death would probably forever be intertwined in history with the end of the Viet Nam conflict. 
''Johnson tried to awaken America morally to the fact that every man was equal." Hesburgh went on to say that President Johnson used his power to fight the injustices of our system and to help the poor and the oppressed. 


to ... support the poor" 
helped oppressed 
Hesburgh used the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Voting Act Bill of 1965, and the Equal Housing Act of 1967 as examples of how President Johnson used his executive powers to help the poor and the oppressed along the road to equality. He recalled that Johnson was a man who felt that. "Our country needs new spirit, heart. and dedication." 
Hesburgh said that he gave moral leadership to the poor and that Johnson sincerely wanted to get these people out of the "box of poverty." The former Chairman of the U.S. Civil Rights Commission felt that Johnson did help to bring about a large amount of change in our country. In his lifetime the President saw the number of black elected officials in the south rise from five to over one thousand. 
champion of the poor 
"An enormous amount of change occurred in the United States because he had the nerve to stand up to the Congress and support the poor." Father Hesburgh said that "President Johnson was a man who hungered and thirsted for justice and he used his power to attan this goal." 
'President Johnson kept his promise because he did associate with the poor and he did work long and hard for the day when all the oppressed people in America could say that they had at­tained equality with the more fortunate." 
Hesburgh closed by commenting, "We should pray for Lyndon Johnson as another Christian because he was merciful to those who were poo~ and oppressed." 
•

Reactions to peace pact are varied 
by Marlene L;oza Sunday Night Editor 
"We have nothing to celebrate," was tpe concensus opinion of several NO faculty members Wednesday concerning the peace announcement and its ramifications. 
"I'm not going out to celebrate the end now, because I wanted it to end much earlier than this." said Jay B, Dolan, assistant professor of history. "It's like the end of a bad dream." 
''Th.is is not like the end of the World Wars, 
when there were parades and celebrations," 
continued Dolan. "we have to work now to heal 
the wounds of our country. That's why the end is 
being taken so calmly and quietly, Americans 
have been drilled to indifference." 
According to Dolan, the Vietnam War has been 
a cause not identified with the best intentions of 
our nation Hnd he is "happy and relieved" that 
the United States is getting out. "It's peace, let's 
leave it at that." Dolan added. 
not a lasting peace? 
History Instructor Carole Moore would like w 
think that the war is over now, but she is not 
convinced. "No. I don't believe it will be a lasting 
peace and my main comment is, 'Why did we 
wait so long'?' " she said. 
The United States has been directly involved in 
the Vietnam War since June, 1950, when seven 
airplanes were sent to help the French fight the 
VietMinh. The U.S. then assumed a major role in 
1956. after the Korean War was over and France 
had withdrawn. 
The prisoner-or-war issue began in 1962, when 
the VietCong announced they would no longer 
release their prisoners. 
According to Nixon's announcement, all 
POW's will be released, ending for some families 
a ten-year vigil of hope. 
Donald Kommers, asociate professor of 
government feels that, "Americans are 
exhausted and simply want to get out, their 
patience is worn out" with the death and 
destruction. "I'm happy that the U.S. is out but I don't think it is the end of the war; maybe it won't be fought with bombs, and the American part is over, but hundreds of people will continue to be killed," predicted Kommers. 
Assistant Professor of History Robert Kerby 

·agreed that the fighting isn't over and said he had "no reason to celebrate the great tragedy of history. We haven't discovered what peace means. we have just stopped shooting. I hope the next generation doesn't botch things up as bad as r_nine did." 
College students have actually been protesting the war since befor e the U.S. committed any ground troops to combat (May, 1965). In April, 1964, students from twelve colleges signed a statement refusing to serve in Vietnam. The first massive anti-war demonstration (25,000 pickets) took. place in October, 1965. Major votests contmued from 1966 to 1968. This included a New York City demonstration <April, 1967) with 125,000 people and the Chicago riots during the 1968 Democratic National Convention. The most dramatic protest occwred October 15 1969 when a Nati~nal War ~oratorium reached major prop.ortwns and mcluded boycotts, religious services and demonstrations. 
secret talks in 1969 
The first U.S. peace plan was presented in October, 1966 and President Nixon began the secret peace talks in April, 1969. 
Several of the instructors interviewed had comments on President Nixon's policy toward the war. 
"My major objection to the original treaty of la~t year is the same as the Administration's," said Professor Kommers, "It didn't insure a force to police the area. I'm not sure the limit of some 3,000 men is enough. Maybe a peace force with power could act as a deterrent but the U.S. can't do anything in that area now. The Soviet Union and China can exert the pressure." 
"The VietCong will try to subvert the political order. but I don't thin .. the American Conscience will be outraged," continued Kommers. "It's not in our national interest any longer." 

. "Th!s (th~ peace settlement> doesn't justify Nixon s pohcy of bombing over the recent vacation," asserted Ms. Moore. She added that she doesn't think it was a necessary step and that Nixon's methods were wrong. ' 
Dolan agreed with this outlook, saying that the Christmas bombings only made matters worse. 
"Nixon talked about wpeace with honor," said Dolan, "but most Americans realize it (the war) has been anything but honorable and anything that comes out of it is hardly an honorable end. It's impossible to even discuss honor." 
Professor Kerby was able to relate a personal story that seems most appropriate at the end of the U.S. involvement: 
Kerby reminisces 

"When I was a Staff Officer in Saigon, at a briefing being prepared for McNamara, the Air Force commander asked all of the section heads for their opinion on future prospects in Vietnam. This was 1962 and it was not being called a war, but people were shooting. Most of the officers were saying that we'd clear up this little thing and get the boys home for Christmas. I said that we'd be here for ten years and lose. The com­mander called me a fool. I think I was right." 
(continued on page 7) 

IUJIIIIIIIIIIUIJJIJIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIInllllllllllllllllllllllllllII1'11111111111111111111111 


Peace Observance 
Notre Dame will commemorate the cease-fire in Vietnam with a "Peace Observance" Sunday afternoon. 
Details for the observance are to be released today by the University group composed of students, faculty, and administrators who are making the plans. 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIOIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUUIIIIIIUIIIIIUIUUUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUUI 
l j 
~ 
1 
----·-------------·--~------·--~-~~-­
the observer Thursday, January 25, 1973 
r 
r 
r 
I 
I 
r 
r I 
~ 
' 
' 
warld briefs 
New Yorlt Tfme• New• Servfce .. Washington -Congresional leaders, including some leading op­ponents of the Vietnam War, gave President Nixon a standing ovation after a White House briefing on the truce. But some expressed con­cern that the peace might be !l)lort. 

Washington -Henry A. Kissinger said Wednesday ·that the United States had a "firm expectation" that the Vietnam cease-fire would soon extend to Cambodia and Laos. Speaking at a 90 minute news conference, Kissinger outlined the details of the accord and forcefully presented the administration's argument that it had secured a "fiar and just" settlement, which could not have been achieved four years ago. 
Washington -The flag-draped coffin of Lyndon ~aine_s Jonso~ was home in a solemn procession to the Capitol, where It lay ~n State m the Rotunda. President Nixon led the mourners at a bnef ~eremony before long-lines began to file past the coffi~. After ~ se~v1ce at t~e National City Christian Church, Johnson will be buned m a family cemetery on his Texas ranch. 
Caucus reacts ·to abortion 
by Bill Sabin Staff Reporter 
Five members of the steering committee for the Women's Caucus of Notre Dame expressed dissatisfaction yesterday at the actions of the University in the Lewis Hall incident. but varied in their opinions of the Supreme Court's decision that women have the right to an abortion within the first three months of pregnancy. 
The five members interviewed were grad students Alana McGrattan and Lucy Rey, un­dergrads Kitty Carroll and Katie Duffy, and faculty member Carole Moore. The sixth member of the committee. Mary Lyn Broe, was unavailable for comment. 
The women all agreed that the raid on the woman in Lewis Hall, nd th€' ensuing decision by the 
.1iversity to force her to withdraw eonstituted a glaring example of a double standard between sexes that now exists at Notre Dame. Thl'Y feel that women are not regarded as equal. for, as Rey pointed out: 'Would a guy have been thrown out of school if a girl had been found in his room?" 
However. the abortion issue left the women widely separated in their opinions. Carroll feels that the ··supreme Court doesn't have the right to make that decision," and that "abortion is murder," and therefore that the matter tran­scends the question of whether or not a woman has the right to end a pregnancy if she so desires. 
At the other end of the spectrum, ~1oore. responded to the con· troversial ruling by flatly saying: "it's about time." Regarding the morality of an abortion, she said that. "the emphasis should be shifted from whether or not abortion constitutes murder to consider what thequalityof life will be for that fetus." 
~lcGrattan was also pleased with the decision and called for other ways to deal with the problem of removing the social stigma that is presently attached to unwed mothers. She said one 
It's Com ·mg to.... 

such alternative would be to have portance of education and coun­more centers where women could seling for responsible family go give birth to a child and either planning. keep it or put it up for adoption as All the women emphasized the 
she pleased.without social l'act that they were speaking for pressures. 
themselves and not the Woman's Hey, said the issue was too Caucus. which will hold its first complex to give a simple yes-or-no general meeting of the semester on 
answer to the 4uestion of ap­Sunday at 7:30P.M. in the Library proving the Supreme Court's Lounge. and to which all are en­decison. She stressed the im-couraged to attend. 
SBP to become a SAP? 
By Steve Magdzinski Staff Reporter 

Notre Dame Student Govern­ment will propose a constitutional amendment at the next Hall Presidents Council meeting which would cange the name " Student Government" to "Student Association." 
Dennis "H-Man" Etienne, Student Body Vice-President. said yesterday. "The word 'Student Government' is a misnomer. It is a holdover from years past when adminstratations promised the students their own government. And there has never been an ef­fective student government here." 
The proposed amendment, which requires passage by two­thirds of the hall councils for ratification, reads: 
"The name of the Student Government shall be officially changed to the 'Student Association of the University of Notre Dame du lac." 
In all passages of the Con-
The Observer is published daily during the college semester ex­cept vacations by the students of the L'niversity of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchesed for $8 per semester ( 14 per year) from the Observer, l'ox Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

FRANKIES 
....on Notre Dame Ave. 
Dancing to the LIVE MUSIC of Monty Prentia's 

COLD SHOT 
Friday & Saturday Evening 9:30-1:30 
And when you're not dancing....have a SCHLITZ! 

L--------____________j' 
stitution. the names of the Student Government. Student Body President. Student Body Vice­President. Student Government Treasurer-shall be taken to mean, Student Association, Student Association President. Student Association Vice-President, Student Association Treasurer. 
The Title of the Constitution shall be the "The Constitution of the Student Association of the University of Notre Dame dulac." 
H-Man suggested that "Student Association" is a term more in fitting with the present nature of the organization. "Besides," he said. "with 'Student Association,' the SBP will be a SAP." 
WEEKENDS AT NO MAKE YOU THIRSTY? Find an Oasis of good drinking and 
..___~ 

savings at Town & Country Liquor and River Park Liquor! 

Bacardi
I!!!llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllnIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIInnnnmmnmlllllllll!!l 


COUPON light or 
KARLOF VODKA Rurn dark 80 proof $89 9 
112 Gal. Expires 2-1-73 Good only at T & C Liquor or River Park Liquor 






$ 4 f~~h 

10% Discount by the Case *Keg Beer *Best Beer Prices In Town *Wine Cellar 
*We have Carling's Black Label TV -12 Pack 
Boone's Farm 
Apple & Strawberry 
WINE $1 o3 fifth 
an campu• taday 
2:00--meeting, organizing student union claendar, student 
union offices. 5:00-6:30--registration, neighborhodd help study program, smc dining halls. 
7:30--film, aparajito, india '73 series. madeleva 8:00--meeting, right to life committee, american nat'l bank branch, mckinley at ironwood. 
8: 00--voice recitaL patricia shook, little theatre, moreau. 
8:30--lecture. career vs. marriage, dr mary martuccl, library aud. 
at nd-•mc: 
South Bend: 37°, Cold & Snowy Nassau: 73°, Warm & Sunny 
GOOSE SEZ: I'll take Nassau Sign-ups in 2nd Floor Ticket Office LaFortune Center 1/25 3:00-4:30 
!!,!IIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIJIIIII1111111111llllllllllllllllllllIIlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll01111IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
§ SPECIAL ~ 
= = 
~ SCHOLARSHIP ~ s OFFER i 
= ~ 5 = § ~ 
E CLASS OF 1975 ONLY :: 
= ~ i= ~ SCHOLARSHIP INCLUDES: 2~year tuition...free! ;§ $100 monthly. Book fees paid, lab fees paid, etc. ~ = 5 
~ DO YOU QUALIFY? Talk to the Professor of! § Aerospace Studies at the University of Notre Dame. § ~ BuildingS. Call 283-6635 for further information. (If~§ you're class of '76, next year is your year) ; 
~ § ~ DEADLINE: Application deadline is 23 February; -1973. Act Now! ­
§ i 
~ I§ 
I FIND YOURSEFL;R~ic~~~~RSHIP IN AIR ~ 
'J.mniJIJUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlllllllllllff 
' 


TOWN& COUNTRY LIQUOR 
Town & Country Shpg Ct 
RIVER_


PARK 

LIQUOR 
2411 f-..~~sh. Ave. 

~-------~------~­
----~-----------------------­
Thursday, Januar-y 25, 1973 the observer 
•

Profs exam1ne peace announcement 
by George Brown Staff Reporter 
In a series of interviews yesterday. Professors Jameson and Dugan of the Economics department. Professor Norling of the Government department, and Father Burrell of the Theology departr~ent expressed their views on President Nixon's peace an­nouncement. 
Feelings were mixed as to the 
future effect of the cease fire, but 
all expressed the thought that the 
American presence in Vietnam has 
been devastating. 
When asked whether lasting 
peace was oossible. resulting from 


Jobs lor 
by Mark Luppino Staff Reporter 
Over 20 part-time jobs are available for married Notre Dame students. according to Milt Jones, chairman of the Job Placement Program of the Student-Alumni HPiations Group. 
During the holidays, ap­plications and letters explaining the program were sent to married 
Kazoo band 
by Joseph Abell Managing Editor 
The organization of a kazoo band for the hockey series this weeken·: with Michigan was proposed by Associate Student Union Director Dave Burch and Farley Hall president Chris Singleton yesterday. Any student with a kazoo or any kind of noise maker that "can be construed as a musical instrument" is welcome to joint the band whose first for­mation will be at Friday night's game. 
At-cording to Burch. the idea of the band resulted from a request made by hockey coach Lefty Smith to Director of Student Activities Hobert Ackerman for a small pep 
band to play at the games. He had formerly contacted Band Director Hobert O'Brien. who had proved unreceptive to the idea. Ackerman then contacted Burch and Singleton. who subsequently suggested the kazoo band. 
Singleton cited the precedent of Kent State in this year's Tangerine Bowl. "They couldn't afford to send their band to the game, so they organized the students into a kazoo band." he said. 
"It worked quite well," he ad­ded. 
WhAT's ThE 
RELiGiOUS LiFE Lil{E? 
A.slc the Men Who Know Contact: 
Fr. Andrew Cifemi, 0. Praem. Holy Cross Hall, 107 UNO tele: 283-6185 
the cease fire. Professor Norling said eh believed it "hard to say, but likely. in the formal sense. But domination by North Vietnam is achieveable in many forms, historically. patterned by military as well as political subversion." Cooperation wih the treaty he said, "has left positions deliberately vague. to be interpreted by each party accordingly. Subjugation, here. is still possible without IPrhnically breaking treaties. 
Settlement stipulating withdrawal of American troops would leave North Vietnam in a better position to pursue their aims, their object still domination " 





married students 
students. Letters were also sent to the possibility of getting them and Notre Dame alumni in the area to didn't bother to fill out the ap­find part-time work for the plication. However, he thinks students. The alumni response . these job offers are lucrative turned out to be much greater than enough to attract the students to the student response, and the them. Student Alumni Relations Group is looking for married students to fill Those married students in­the jobs. 
terested should contact the Off­
Milt suggested that the reason Campus office Monday, Tuesday,for the poor student response was and Thursday from 5-7 p.m., phone that either the students already 7755, or during the day call the have jobs or they had give11 up on Alumni Office at 7268. 

for hockey games 
Dave Burch: "We just want 
C'verybody to come out and have a good time." 
"What we had in mind is something very loose and in­formal," Burch said, indicating the possibility of a few kazoo "Training sessions" before the game to "get the band together." 
"We want to stimulate as much excitement for the most important series of games of the year," 
Professor Norling also speculated that one of the reasons if was possible to gain a settlement was that Russia and China could have put economic pressure on North Vietnam to promote negotiations. "We are looking at about a draw. The Communist prospects will be better for taking up the offensive again. Once the American forces leave, they will not return." 
{{ejecting a monolithic concept of takeover bv North Vietnam as the only force. destructive towards South Vietnam's internal stability, Professor Jameson asserted that the Vietnamese conflict was a "civil war'' in his estimation, and that many forces both "on the right 


Come to Nassau 
$189 complete 
Singleton stated. "We want all true Notre Dame musicians to show up to bask in their own glory on WNDU." he added in referenceto the radio broadcast of the games. 
Burch said that efforts are being made to secure a quantity of kazoos to be sold at cost in front of Gate 3 of the ACC, but that con­firmation of this would not come until later today. Singleton urged that students try to obtain kazoos on their own. 
"They can probably get one downtown or at Town and Coun­try." he suggested, and mentioned that if it was not possible to obtain one. "a comb and tissue paper, a comb and dollar bill or just a first held in fron of the mouth will work just as well." 
Singleton also mentioned the possibility of a 15 minute rehearsal in the Fanatic section of the stands before th game, but Burch disagreed. 
"That would be a little too for­
mal." he said. "We just want 
everybody to come out and have a 
good time." He added that 
further information concerning the 
obtaining of kazoos would be 
revealed today and in tomorrow's 
Observer. 


LEAVE Detrot-Nassau 
RETURN Nassau-Detroit 
SEVEN NIGHTS IN FUNKY NASSAU Quad Accomodations in the Famous Montagu Beach Hotel ' 
Sign-ups start Thurs at Union Ticket Office, 2nd Floor LaFortune 3:00-4:30
You Can't beat it! 

and on the left. have been 
dissatisfied with the Theiu 
regime." He further stated that "a 
lasting peace in terms of Theiu's 
present not probable," and that 
"the struggle would then be in the 
political arena and not by
fighting.'· 
Professor Dugan stated his estimation of the key issue as being an inability to evaluate our military success in Vietnam. He stated that. "We were there to support a dictator as opposed to the Communists. The country is still a dictatorship, so coalition government seems the better course of action." "This situation is similar to our Korean in­volvement in the 1950's, a lack of unity is still better than in­volvement," he added. 
Dugan also noted that he did not foresee any change in South Vietnamese government over the next few years. 
Reacting to the text of President Nixon's message. Father Burrell looked on it as "appalling and destructive that he <Nixon) presented a position of self­righteousness in a conflicted situation." Burrell further stated that the President "impeded healing needed by the country in not admitting the wrong inherent in our involvement." "Most damaging, is our use of military power for a 'solution' to a con­flicted situation. Force and technology dictated where reason should counsel otherwise. What Nixon gained was Nixon's peace with honor." 


Don't Get Bushwacked! 
Just Get Your 
Hair Shaped. 
Full Service Shop Complete Hair Analysis *FuJI Line of RK Products 


All S~rvices By Appointment --Call Now 





~ ~~..l!:~~i~~:. 
1637 Lincoln Wav w. 
Closed Mondays Phone 232-6622 
l

Class of '73 presents 
M.A.S.H. 
Sat. Jan. 27 8:00 pm O'Laughlin Aud. S.M.C. $1.00 

1 1 
1 
1 
l 1 
~ ~ 
1 
1 
1 
j 
1 
i 
1 1 1 
1 
, 
j 






THE OBSERVER Dpinian 
AN tNDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
John Abowd  0.:1 Thornton  
Editor-in-Chief  NEWS: 283-1715  Businf'-:~  M.nager  
EDITORIALS: 283-8661  
Don RuAne  BUSINESS: 283-7471  Joe Butler  
Executive Editor  Advertising Ma,..ger  

Thursday, January 25, 1973 



Insecurity 
Campus Security at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's badly needs some serious re-evaluation. Itis not enough to say that the operations are run so that one cannot help but get the impression that the of­ficers and chiefs thrive on the public image of bumbling idiots. Actually, what has happened on both campuses is that the function and method of security have been completely confused. 
No one denies that the function of security is, in some sense, to protect the community. We all expect to be relatively free from threats to our bodily safety and physical property. That is, we expect adequate protection for the cars in parking lots, reasonable freedom from burglary in the dormitories, quick response to an emergency that involves 
personal injury and reliable means of securing access to these and other ser­vices. We expect these things not because of a sublime faith in the benevolence of security directors--we expect them because we have paid for a security service and these are the legitimate function of a security service. 
The Confusion 
The problem comes when men like Ar­thur Pears and Anthony Kovatch and the men who hire them insist that the func­tion of security is inextricably linked to the role of the "policeman." Notre Dame and Saint Mary's officers consider themselves cops. They dress like cops. They carry the paraphanalia of cops. They even call themselves cops. But they arc not policemen and they have no right to assume the haughty air of policemen. 
Modern police methods are based on the assumption that there is a significant probability that an officer will be assaulted when he answers a call. We have no evidence whatsoever to suggest that this is true of either Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. Modern police methods are also founded on the assumption that any procedural errors in the in­vcstiga tion and arrest will be given a full airing at the trial. Here again, we have no evidence to suggest that this is true of Notre Dame or Saint Mary's, especially given the events of the past months. 
Missing the Point 
When Arthur Pears calls The Observer description of the absolutely shoddy methods used in the Lewis Hall incident "trash journalism," he shows he has no comprehension of the differences bet­
daanesbury 
YOtJ 86T H6" Hn5/
19/VP .I'f/6cor IJ 
rcet.IN6 IT'S O#t..y II B€6tNAI!NGf liE's 6()(/1(6 TO H/11'\~ THAT tJEAN's t../ST 11611/N NeXT 
/ I&'RH/ 
ween legitimate security measures under a system which permits formal redress of grievances and under the protectorate which is Notre Dame's system. 
When Anthony Kovatch permits his guards to fire blanks and threaten buckshot and continues to claim that the noise was only firecrackers, he shows that he has no understanding of the dif­ferences between violence in response to a threat of violence and cheap tactics designed to ward off mischevious students. 
The evidence suggests that neither man is exactly suited to his job. Cer­tainly neither man has offered any evidence that the current methods are either effective as security measures or appropriate to the circumstances in which they occurred. They are not. 
When a person deals with campus security, he (or she) does not expect to be treated as a "criminal" or "suspect". He expects to be treated courteously and he is almost invariably disappointed. There is a great difference between being greeted at the campus gate with a gruff "Wadda you want now?" and "We aren't ordinarily allowed to let cars on campus unless you have a good reason. But I can make exceptions." In the second case the officer realizes that his job is a service job not a guest appearance with the CIA. 
Some of the younger officers and a few of the older ones (like the guard in Badin) realize that the first rule for security on a college campus is to act courteously and reasonably. Unfortunately, far too many security officers prefer to act like "cops" or, to often, like children. Serious thought should be given to completely restructuring security--from the top down. Its time to realize that such a service exists for the benefit of those who pay for it and not to be frequent source of actions which seriously disrupt the community that security is supposed to serve. 
John Abowd 


Specialist 4 Davis 
jim ferry 
Specialist 4 James Davis was killed by Viet Cong forces on 
December 22, 1961. President Lyndon Baines Johnson called him "the 
first American to fall in defense of our freedom in Vietnam." 
I often wonder what James Davis was like, or what he thought of this 
war. the war he died in over a decade ago. 
June 27. /950--President Harry Truman announced that the U.S. was 
sending a 35-man Military Assistance Advisory Group to Indochina to 
advise the troops there in the use of American weapons. 
James Davis was a young boy in 1950. If he even heard of the Ad­
viso~y ~r~up. I doubt. if he paid too much attention to it. A young 
man s hfe Is too complicated to worry about things world away. 
DC'c. 14. /96/--President Kennedy declared the U.S. "prepared to 
help the Republic ofSouthVietnam preserve its independence." 
I imagine that James Davis, or perhaps I should say Specialist 4 
James Davis. paid some attention to that announcement. It was to 
play a very big part in his young life, and eventually in his death. 
Nov. 1. /963--President Diem was assassinated and a series of coups 
followed. 
August 7. /964--Congress approves Gulf of Tonkin Resolution giving 
the President pow.er to "take all necessary measures to repel any 
armed attack agamst the forces of the U.S. and to prevent further 
aggression." 
FC'bruary. /965--Continuous U.S. bombing raids over North Vietnam 
started in an effort to force theCommunists to the conference table. 
Hanoi replied that negotiations would not be considered until the with­
drawal of American forces. 
June 8. 1965--U.S. commanders authorized to send American troops 
into eombat. 
Jan 5. /967--Total U.S. casualties since Jan. 1, 1961 are 6 664 dead 
:!7.738 wounded. ' ' ' 
Dec. 20. /967--U.S. troops in Vietnam number 474,300 men, 1,500 
more than American peak strength in Korea during the Korean War. 
Jan. 30. 1968--Viet Cong and North Vietnamese forces attack 30 
provincial capitals in South Vietnam in the Tet offensive. Record 
easualties were suffered on both sides. 
May 10. /968--Preliminary peace talks between the U.S. and North Vietnam begin in Paris. Aug. 29. 1968--U.S. casualties in Vietnam since Jan. 1, 1961, are 27, 508 killed. 171,809 wounded. FC'b. 22. 1969--U.S. troop strength in South Vietnam is 542,500. Apr. 3. 1969--U.S. deaths in Vietnam are 33,641, surpassing by 12 those killed in the Korean War. May 14. 1969--President Nixon proposes mutual withdrawal over a twelve month period, of major U.S. and North Vietnamese forc~s. October 15, 1969--Hundreds of thousands of Americans demonstrate opposition to the Vietnam war in "moratorium". 
Nov. 3. /969--President Nixon says that he plans to withdraw all U.S. ground combat forces, on a "secret timetable". He asks for the support of the "great silent majority" of Americans. 
April 30. /970--lncursion by American and South Vietnamese forces into Cambodia to destroy border area sanctuaries is announced. Nov. 9. /970--U.S. forces in South Vietnam are reduced to 368 000 the lowest level since December 10, 1966. ' ' .oct. 3. 1971--Nguyen Van Thieu was reelected president of South VIetnam. He was the sole candidate. Oct. 9. 1971--0nly 8 U.S. combat deaths in one week the lowest total since Aug. 28, 1965. Total Americans killed since Jan: 1, 1961, reached 45,572. May 8. 1972--President Nixon announces the mining of North Viet­namese ports. Sept. 16. 1972--For the first time since March of 1965 the weekly report listed no U.S. combat deaths. ' October 16. 1972--U.S. and North Vietnamese negotiators reveal agreement for a cease-fire. Minor details remained. 
Total U.S. casualties since Jan. 1, 1961, were 45,882 killed and 303 457 wounded. Unofficial figures put South Vietnamese dead at 170 361 ~nd North Vietnamese at 894,214. ' 
January 24. 1973-"Peace, is "at hand", and James Davis is dead. 
IIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIUOIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIHUHIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIHIHIIIIHIUIWIIIIIIIIIIIIUIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII!llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 
His best college audience? No whole ferment of the sixties is doubt in his mind: "Notre Dame. 
taking place there now. What youQuote without comment It's a great college. The great get from the students is an in­Catholic jock university of the past 
teresting mix of a lively is now entering the present. The Catholicism and a lively 
agnosticism. I can use the word \from Overview Magazine, Jan. 'soul' there. and they don't 15, 1973, published by the Thomas necessarily snicker. If I had a son More Society. l --norman mailer ready to go to college now I'd send 
him to Notre Dame." 
IllIll1111111111111111111111illllllllllliiiiiiiiiUIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIH llllllllllllllllllllllfllllllllU 
'=J•rry trudeau 
,LJ#IJ Tllell 116/J!It// /tAIIJ !fie)/ GR/J/JIJA 1101/ PJ/Tfl Pill 85T/I K11PP!t... 
fJNf) rll&/11-tJIJRe, f SAY IT?.... I 

the observer 
Managing Editor: Joe Abell News Editor: Anthony Abowd St. Mary's Editor: Maria Gallagher Editorial Editor: Jerry Lutkus Features Editor: Rod Braye Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson Associate Editors: Bob Higgins, Ed Ellis Special Projects Editor: Dan Barrett. ISSUE STAFF: 
Night Editor: George Lund. 
Ass't Night Editor: Art Esposito. Design:" Anthony Abowd, Jerry Lulkus, Joe Abell, Pictureman: Jerome Phillips. Day Editor: Tom Drape. 
Sports Night Editor: Vic Dorr. Night Controller: Howard Halle. Computographic: t'nll urscheln. 
Typists: John Flannigan, Steve Roper, Barb Nor cross. Dennis Anastasoff. BP Howard Hog tied 4-4. 

Thursday, January 25, 1973 the observer 
5 

Letters Ta A Lanely Eiad (~ 
any man can be my pope t , 
reverend rabert fdriffin 
the beach boys: a new disappointment 


Woodstock is the name of an improbable bird with ambiguous plumage who appears in the Peanuts strip as a friend of Snoopie's. Hecently. a rift developed between the dog and the bird. As Snoopy summed it up: 
"I spoiled Woodstock's party. He had invited this cute little bird that he's in love with. but he never got to talk with her because I talked with her the whole evening. 
So he sent me a bill for six dollars for a broken heart." 
At this point. Woodstock, flying upside down. comes winging into the picture, and Snoopy says, "Woodstock, my little friend of friends ... " 
And in the final panel, Snoopy, clasping his little buddy to that great beagle breast, says to the sighing, ecstatic bird, "Don't you realize that your heart is worth much, much more than six dollars?" 
For a long time now, in my religious life, I have been nourishing a very dangerous kind of pride: the pride of believing that in matters of faith, my own judgments are the equals of any man's. I guess, like many others. my mind is rebelling against the restraints of an authoritarian structure. For many years. I have lived in a church of popes. bishops. and religious superiors. Popes. I was told, are infallible in matters of faith and morals. Bishops in union with the pope. though not infallible, are the wat­chdogs of truth. They might be tiresome old frumps in their personal lives, and tyrants to their housekeepers, but in matters of doctrine, you had to keep pace with the bishop, or it's anathema sit for you, baby, and how would you like to be zapped with an l.'xcom munica tion? 
Thus the formulas of orthodoxy ran: 
popes peccable, but infallible; bishops both 
peccable and fallible, but always right with 
doctrine; and religious superiors who were 
both peccable and fallible, and sometimes 
heretical. but in their will was your peace. 
You want to go to heaven? Then stick with 
your superiors; he has the roadmap for you. 
You want to go to Peoria Then stick with 
your superior; he also has the carfare. 
It was a very comfortable world, that 
world in which 1 was ordained priest. Wih 
all those popes and bishops, nobody had the 
truth like Catholics had the truth. Priests 
who had come back from the war where 
they had served as chaplains told us of the 
Ride The Music 


pat small 

IIIIII II II B11111111111111111 fllIIIIII101111Ill II Ill Ill JIIIIU llllllullllll. 
The Beach Boys 
Holland 
MS 2118 
$5.98 

lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll!lllll!ll 
Well. The Beach Boys really started off the New Year on the wrong foot by releasing this bomb. Their latest "effort", entitled Holland. contains less good material, less good vocalizing, and less taste than Carl and the Passions. if that's possible. The album is basically a large disappointment, because it's so tough to see such a group of talented guys waste their and their audience's ti~e bv releasing such garbage. Perhaps they ve tt1rned Into sado-masochists, because I can't sl.'e any justification at all for this insulting niece of "music." 
The album was recorded in Holland, \\"hich certainly didn't help it at all. The material on this album is pretty evenly divided among the group, so I really can't point my finger at anyone for. this .mess, pxcept Brian Wilson for allowmg himself and the group to sink to these depths. Considering the album consists mostly of eolh1borations among the members of the group. it just goes to show that sometimes thr£'1.' or four heads aren't better than one. 
Side one begins with "Sail on Sailor," \rhich features a competent vocal by Ricky Fataar. which is pleasantly contrary to his usual self. The harmony is pretty good, but it contains only the vestiges of what the Beach Boys once were. 

ministers, also chaplains, whom they had met in the service. All those ministers knew which faith was the One, True Faith, our ex­chaplains told us. Those ministers knew about Fatima and Lourdes; they had seen the confidence that medals and sacraments inspire in men facing death. Those ministers only regretted they couldn't give their own men absolution; all they had to offer the G.I.'s was the New Testament. Those ministers would become Catholics tomorrow. our chaplains said, if it weren't for their wives and families. A man can't very easily give up his job as a minister if he has a wife and children to support. Bishop O'Hara of the Military Ordinariate, later the dear Eminence who is now entombed in Sacred Heart Church, was rumored to have confided a secret to the priests at Notre Dame. Protestants, he said, boasted of the number of servicemen! who were baptized into the various sects of that denomination. Jews were pleased by the number of G.l.'s who adopted the Judaic traditions. But the Church. he said, was silent about the number of servicement who converted to the Catholic faith, for the figure was too large to release; it would have frightened Protestant America. The news on the 
number of conversions to Catholicism, like 
The next three songs are listed under California Saga." But aren't they in llolland? Perhaps an afterthought. Anyway, the first part. "Big Sur." is performed and written by Mike Love, who might not be touring with them anymore. It has ~i~e 
harmonica and a nice vocal but at best It IS only competent. "The Beak of Eagles" by AI .lardine has good piano and flute <Charles · Llovd?) but Mike Love's narration about eagles just doesn't get to me and th~ ch~rus just falls short. The final act of this tnad, ··California," sorry to say, comes off a lot more like the Cowsills than the Beach Boys. 
Side two opens with "The Trader", which features Carl Wilson's California accent and vocalizing. which was great on "Darlin' ", but is just horrid on this cut. "Leaving this Town': is not too bad. although Fataar's voice really gets on my nerves. "Only With You" is the token Denny Wilson song which features Denny Wilson'beirig token. 
The last cut on the album. "Funky the news of the number of troops using drugs in Vietnam. would have just added a new horror to war. 

So those of us who believe in popes and bishops fed our faith on the news of the sheaves gathered for harvest in those foxholes where no man is atheist, and we welcomed Mrs. Clare Booth Luce into the fold. and Avery Dulles , the son of John Foster Dulles, and Louis Bidenz, the ex­Communist. and Gary Cooper on his death­bed. On the days of ecumenism appointed by the Church. we prayed "That they all may be one. Father, even as we are one," and our great principle of unity was the pope. Our religious superiors counselled us, if we had Doubts about Faith, we should have recourse to Prayer rather than to Study. Apostasy was a sin involving full consent of the willl; so guard your will, and bind it to the pope's, and leave the thinking to the theologians. Don't worry if you're not smart enough to see your error. Fulton Sheen sees it, a111d he'll defend your faith before the Protestants. 
It is now nineteen years since I was or­dained. The world is changed, and nothing is comfortable a111y more. Many Catholics are embarrassed! about the infallibility of the pope. and about the bishops who support 
Pretty." is the best cut. The vocal mix and hann'onies are especially good, a·nd Carl Wilson finally shows the good side of his \'Oice. However, I wonder if this song could have made it on one of their better albums. 
What could have been the savior of this album. a seven inch. 33 1-3 disc entitled Mount Vernon and Fairway, a fairy tale, crucifies it. Comprised mostly of Brian Wilson compositions, it consistently blends in with the rest of the album's mediocrity. It's just twelve minutes and 38 seconds of 
111i11111-.nDIIIIIIIDUWIUIIDIRUII11118liiUWIIIIIRBIIIIIUIIIIUIIIUIIIIUIIIIIIUIUIIIIHIIIIIIIU11111111111111111111 I~II li il• 111· 
rolling stone awards for 1972 announced 
Rolling Stone recently announced its annual Music Awards, as selected by the editors. The awards, for accomplishments in 1972, cover 17 categories. 
Named Rock and Roll Star of the Year was AI Green, whose recording of "I'm Still in Love With You" was a smash hit. 
Five LPs were <:hose Albums of the Year: Superfly --Curtis Mayfield Eat a Peach --The Allman Brothers Band Paul Simon--Paul Simon For the Roses--Joni Mitchell Rock of Ages --The Band 
i!IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIDIHIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIlllllll 
Singles of the Year: 
-
"I Can See Clearly ~ Now" --Johnny Nash "Lean on Me"--Bill Withers "Burning Love"--Elvis Presley 
Other awards included: 
Comeback of the Year: Chuck Berry Fon~ Artist of the Vear: Arlo Guthrie CountryArtistofthe Vear: Tom T. Hall English Group of the Year: Yes New Artists of the Year: Jackson Browne, Bonnie Raitt 
Best TV Series: Soul Train Rock and Roll Event of the Year: The Rolling Stones Tour of America 
his doctrines. Fools like me nourish a very dangerous kind of pride: the pride of 
believing that in matters of faith my own judgments are the equals of any man. Does thits mean I think my faith is as good as that of the saints and the mystics? I suppose it does, since the only saints I know about are people like the Berrigans, and they are full of errors, and the only true mystics I have met are children. 
Then. one evening, when you are worried about your dangerous pride, and wonder if maybe you have outgrown the church, a beautiful thing happens that reminds you that your own true home is in the com­munity of those who believe. A friend named Michael shows you the little Peanuts strip in which Snoopy says, "Oh, Woodstock, my little friend of friends, don't you realize that your heart is worth much, much more than six dollars?" 
Implicit in the story is a very ancient thought: "Are not sparrows sold five for twopence? And yet no one of them is overlooked by God ... Have no fear; you are worth more than any number of sparrows." 
One is moved to a simple assent in the 
presence of truth. Popes are not needed to 
certify truth; bishops are redundant when 
truth touches the mind. 
Woodstock, symbol of all of us who, in a 
varif'ty of ways, value ourselves too 
cheaply, being clasped in an embrace of 
love by Snoopy, sometimes seen as Schultz's 
Christ-figure, the Hound of Heaven: in that 
wonderful little scene Schultz has offered us 
the truth that underlies all our creeds. 
Orthodoxy in faith, you see, is not a 
matter of a discipline of the mind imposed 
with authority by one man on another. 
Rather. it is men recognizing in each other a 
fidelity to the truth and grace of the Christ­
life. Insofar as I find Christ in any man, his 
charity in the Lord and his insights born of 
God can help me measure my own com­
mitment, and he can be my pope and bishop, 
even though his name be Charlie Schultz. 
At least, that is the way it seems to me this 
morning. In the meantime, old infallible, 
but peccable pope, don't start looking for 
other work. In the meantime, old peccable, 
fallible bishop, confirmed in institutional 
orthodoxy, don't take out mortgages on your 
mitre. I have faith that both of you are 
much needed for insights into truth that 
never get printed in the funny papers. 
impure waste. It looks like the Beach Boys are coming to 
N.D. in late March and they should put on a good concert. mainly because they play mostly their good stuff. sneaking in some of their lesser music here and there. 
The only thing I have to say to them is a few lines from one of their best songs, "Caroline Know." which poses the question: "Could I ever find in you again, the things that made me love you so much then"" I hope so, b\"t 1 think not. 



-~------­
the observer Thursday, January 25, 1973
6 

Did SMC guards fire at ND students? 
Two students claiming to have been involved in the St. Mary's security chase on Sunday morning during which blanks were allegedly fired, said yesterday that Security Director Anthony Kovathc's was almost completely accurate. and that he was justified in apprehending the two. 
Hick Moccia and John Callaghan. both of Stanford Hall, said two or three blanks were !"ired. While Kovatch had at­tributed the sound ofh,'fireworks" 
Art Show slated for Feb. 10 
by Jim Gress.e1r Observer Staff Reporter 
The Isis Art Gallery will present 
a showing of recent prints by the 
students and faculty of the Herron 
Art Institute as the initial phase 
inthe planned expansion of gallery 
activities. 
The show opens of Feb. 10 and 
will remain in the Isis Gallery for 
about a month. The gallery is 
located in the west end of the Old 
Fieldhouse. 
The Herron show is one half of a reciprocal agreement. The works of Notre Dame art students will soom be shown at the Herron In­stitute. located in Indianapolis. The works to be sent will include drawings, prints, paintings, photography and sculpture. 
Along with the Herron show, Notre Dame art students are also planning a lecture and film series. According to Tim Standring, one of 
Registration changes discussed 
by John Rumbach Staff Reporter 
Plans for radical revisions of advanced registration procedures were drafted Tuesday night during the first meeting of the Committee on Advanced Registration. 
The proposed revisions, for­mulated from questionares distributed to students last semester. include a revamping of the adviser system and a month­long advanced registration period. 
Mike Geisinger: registration in two parts
1\ltke {Ietsinger. chatrman . .of the student government committee said the new program will diviru; advanced registration into two parts. The first part will be a week period in which stu ronsult faculty advisers and our form 50's. 
llruing this time majors willl 

-
able to sign up for course in field. Also. all students will fill slips for non-major ...h • .,... ~, ..... ·~P~·n.o~• rourses and these will be nr'"''""t.c.rU to the departments offering rourse. 
(;eisinger said that these slips do not assure en into courses. they give the ticular department an idea of many students are placement. He said that then could either be added the students planning the show, the lecture topics include erotic art, the role of the female in art history. and conservation in art. The speakers will be curators and lecturers form the Art Institute of Chicago and professors from the ND 'Art Department. 
Standring expressed hope that they would be able to show the film. "The Great Ice Cream Hobbery of the Opening of the Clas Oldenberg Show at the Tate Gallery of London." 
After this show, the art students plan to greatly broaden the scope of activities of the student-run gallery. The possibilities for future shows include an exchange show with Purdue University, an exhibition fromt he Wabash Gallery. and an exhibition of Tech­art from the Art Institute of Chicago. 
Other planned activities include 
They reported seeing "sparks from a gun." and were convinced that the officer was not firing at them. but just trying to scare them as they were chased through the cemetery behind Regina Hall. 
They were sure the sparks were from a gun, because they said the sparks were above ground and too far from Regina Hall for anyone to throw fireworks which could ex­plode above the ground. However, it is not known how far into the cemetery. through which security t•hased the men, that the sparks 
expanded. 
The second part deals with the acquisition of computer cards and the committee suggests that it be done as in tbe past. except that all departments be centered in the ACC. 
Between the two parts is a week interim in which departments can rE>view class slips and make necessary adjustments. 
Suggested revisions of the faculty adviser system call for an adviser student ratio of 1 to 15. According to Geisinger, the present tystem does not provide enough advisers for the students' 

needs~·----------------------'~·td~v~a~n~c~e_r~e~g~is~t~ra~t~io~n~th~i=s_s~p~r~ing. __==================================================~ 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE BRINGS YOU A FANTASTIC 
THE GRASSROOTS 

THE BEACH BOYS MOTHER EARTH THE MAMAS & THE PAPAS 
LOBO 

THE FOUR SEASONS RICK NELSON 
JOHN MAYALL  ALBUMS WITH SUGGESTED LIST PRICE VALUES T0$9.98 NOW ALL  
RECORDS ONLY  
Another Hit Record Spectucular  

Hundreds of stereo records to choose 
Take advantage of these fabulous 
from 
prices 
Geisinger noted that this was one of the three major gripes found on the questionares collected last semester. The other two included the inability to get into major courses and abuses during registration days such as selling computer cards. 

Geisinger anj his committee of twE>Ive volunteer students will submit the revisions to the faculty and department heads for suggestions. after which they will write a final draft to present to the registrar. 
Geisinger said that he hopes the revisions can be implemented by occured. The cemetery is separated from Regina by only a narrow road, and fireworks could be thrown from an upper floor into the cemetery. 

Callaghan is the man who surrendered, after security chased them into the ravine on the cemetery's western boundry. He and Moccia said a security officer threatened "to shoot buckshot at the next thing that moved," and Callaghan surrendered at this · point. St. Mary's security officers do not carry any weapon capable 
poetry readings, jam sessions, classical music recitals, films and lectures. 
The Isis Gallery as a student organization receives no official assistance from the University. The gallery does receive some financial help from the Cultural Arts Commission of the Student Union. Jim Dyer, a graduate student working with the gallery ,points out that the gallery is independent from the CAC but that the commission has offered to "fill in anywhere they possibly could." 
Standring. noting the rarity of a totally student-run gallery, ex­pressed a great need for help from the students. 
He actively urges all students who would be willing to help in any capacity to contact him. 
of firing buckshot. and both men believe the officer was "justr kidding" to make them give up. 
Moccia was found two hours later in some bushes near Augusta Hall. 
Callaghan and Moccia also confirmed Kovatch's description of how they left the hall, and the time of the incident (sometime between 2 a.m. and 3 a.m. Sun-

THE RED DOOR CLUB 
JOIN US THIS WEEKEND 
*Live Entertainment *Beer * Wine * Liquor* 

New Memberships Available 
Give us the old song and dance. 
Any old song and dance. Give us the old soft shoe. Or a comedy routine (this needn't be old-we hope it isn't-boy, do we hope it isn't). We're auditioning talent of all kinds-singers, instrumentalists, dancers, actors, bands, acrobats, gypsies, ventriloquists 

Bloomington, Indiana-Tuesday, February 6 
1:00 p.m.-Indiana University Indiana Memorial Union-Frangipani Room 

magicians-anything that's entertaining. 
Auditions are open to anyone 16 years of age or older. Just remember the main requirement-you must be present to win. 
SIX FLAGS 

day l. They entered through the main lobby. 
Two other mein in the incident, which started when a resident called security to report "five strange men" on her floor, remain anonymous. Callaghan and Moccia said the other two are freshmen. and that no one else was with them. 


1n Europe
U.S. disliked • 

<continued-from page 1l 
To the war hawks, it's not a victory like they hoped for and to the others it's too late, so no one is satisfied." reasoned Dolan. 
Professor Kommers spent the last year in West Germany, where he iaught at the University of Cologne. According to him there are several different opinions there about the American in­volvement. 
"The people are critical, but not as much as in France or the Scandinavian countries. College students are idealogically opposed to the American involvement and demonstrators are extremely anti­American. considering the U.S. the ·vanguard of imperialism.' The German newspapers are more moderate, some even sympathetic to the plight of Americans. 'i'he government has been silent; they don't want to jeopardize their position with the U.S. government, and rightly so I think." 
A final word was volunteered by Professor Kerby: "This is all something to be sad about, something we ought not to forget." 
New assistant info director named 


Daria Schlega: new assistant information director 
Music teacher to give concert 
Patricia Shook. Instructor of :\Iusic. at SMC will present a soprano vocal recital at 8:00p.m., Thursday. January 25. 1973, in the College's Little Theatre. Moreau 11<!11. 
Shook will sing selections ranging fi'Om the seventeenth to the twentieth centuries. The works will include music by composers llt•nrv Purcell. Arthur Honegger, Franz Schubert. Wolfgang Mozart, Benjamin Britten. Jules Massenet, and Joseph :\1arx. 
Shook holds her l\1.A. degree in Music from Northwestern University. where she was a student of llermanus Baer. then Chairman of the University's Voice Department. She attended the llochschule for Musik. Munich. (;ermany, to study with Gerhard !Iusch. A special student at the Akademie der Musik in Vienna, Austria. Shook sttidied with Paula Kohler and Anton Dermota, lead !Pnur of the Vienna Opera. 
:\dditional study at the Music :\cademv of the West, Santa B:1rbara. California, provided Shook the opportunity to study with Lotti' L!'hmann. Fritz Lehmann, ann Gwendolyn Koldofsky, 
nat ionally  recognized  voice  
coaches.  
Shook.  appeared as a soloist  

with the Elkhart Symphony and Ihe South Bend Symphony. She has also performed with her husband. Terence Shook. at the Palais Palffy. Vienna. and At Cluver Military Academy, Goshen College, the University of Notre DamP. and Saint Mary's College. 
Henry to speak in Clinton, lnd. 
llr. F:rtward L. Henry, president of SMC wi!l :1ddress the Clinton County Chamber of Commerce's tiOth annual meeting, today in Frankfort. Indiana. 
Dr. Henry will discuss "Rural Henaissance". a topic in which he is well-acquainted. Previous to accepting the Presidency of Saint Mar~··s College in July, 1972, Dr. Henrv was the Director of the CPnter for the Study 'of Local (;overnrnent .at St. John's llniversity, CoHegeville, Min­nesota. where he was also a professor of government. 
Dr. Henry has edited two books relating to city growth and government. Metropolis, )968 and .Micropolis inTransition, published in 1971. 
Dr. Henry was Mayor of St. Cloud. Minnesota, 1964-70 He was President of the Minnesota 1\Iavors· Association. 1967-68. and President of the League of Min­nesota Municipahties, i9f>& -.i:J 
Daria Schlega has been named Sehlega received a B.A. in Russian assistant director of information language and literature from services at the University of Notre Michigan State University in 1969. Dame. She also pursued a graduate study 
Sehlega succeeds Jean Horiszny, there in journalism and in music who intends to enter full-time therapy. graduate study at Notre Dame. She wrote for various Michigan She will specialize in science and State University publications Pngineering news at the Univer­before joinging the staff of a sitv. \n•ekly newspaper in Sebewaing,
A graduate of Detroit Class l\lieh. Tl'thnical High School, Ms. 
Kersten names Halloway as Campus Affairs Director 
Student Body President H.Calhoun Kersten announced Friday the appointment of Walker 
L. llolloway. 412 Keenan Hall, as 
Director of Campus Affairs. The 
creation of this new position is intended as a public service to all those who find the social life at Notre Dame deficient . 
Holloway's duties will include arranging extracuricular ac: tivities to further co-education on campus. 
Halloway expressed confidence that he can make great strides toward combating what he calls."the lethargy that has en­compassed the campus." 

Observer Yearbook Pictures All staff members asked to meet 
at the office Thursday 7:30 
Now • • • an inside look at a remarkable basketball dynasty by the man who buill it ••. 
JOHN WOODEN 
"Sportsman of the Year" for 1972-Sports Illustrated 
THEYCALL 

ME COACH 
as told to Jack Tobin 
"No coach should be trusted with • . . working with yo.1.1ng men ... unless he Is spiritu­aiiJ"Strong. If he does possess this Inner strength, it is only because he has faith in God and truly loves his fellow man." 
Find out why UCLA coach John Wooden believes thai basketball Is only the third most Important thing in a · player's life. Discover what has helped him mold ordinary men into living legends. Lew 
· Alclndor (Kareem Abdul Jab­bar), Gall Goodrich., Walt Hazzard -you'll meet th\!m all and , many more as THEY CALL ME COACH traces John WoOden's life from an Indiana dirt court to the pinnacle of Hardbound ' the sports world. Illustrated. $5.15 WORD Boob, publisl:ler 
Get your copy today from: 
HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 

Thursday, January 25, 1973 the observer 
CACpresents 
"McCabe and Mrs. Miller" 
starring Warren Beatty and Julie Christie directed by Robert Attman 
Eng. Aud. 8-10 pm Adm. $1. 00 Thurs. & Fri., Jan. 25-26 

The Winery 
Michiana's Only Wine Shop 

* Gormet Foodl *Cheese *Books *Wine Glasses 
2426 Lincoln Way West Mishawaka 259-9046 4 8/ks East of Ironwood 
John J· O'Hanlon-Prop., ND '65 
CLASSIFIED FIDS 
WANTED 

Desperately need 4 UCLA tix. Norm 1502. 
Need 2 or 3 UCLA tickets. Thanks. Kevin 1329. 
OVERSEAS JOBS FOR STUDENTS· Australia, Europe, 
5. America, Africa. Most professions, summer or full time, expenses paid, sightseeing. Free information, write, TWR Co. Dept. F2, 2550 Telegraph ave., Berkeley, CA 94704. 
~TUDENT TO DISTRIBUTE VERY UNUSUAL COMPUTER DATING FORMS. $400-$600 month. Write Box 508, Boulder Colo. 
Help wanted Full time jobs available as cooks helpers & bakers helpers. Contact Univ. Personnel Dept. tor further info. 
Wanted. 2or 4 general admission tickets to UCLA game. Call 5185 or 6791. Thanks. 
Need ride to Peoria, Bloomington, Illinois area Friday January 26 and back Sunday January 28, if possible call Jim at 1165. 
Riders wanted to Kent, Ohio Friday, Jan. 26. Ken 8810. 
Need UCLA B·Ball tix, call Scott 1791 or see in 1105 Grace. 
Need 2 tickets to UCLA. Call 232· 6253. 
NOTICES 

Crypt Record Store · New $5.98 albums only $3.92. Store hours are 1·6. We will deliver to your room, phone 233.4993. · 
The Kara.te Creed 
I come to you with only Karate . empty hands. I have no weapons; but should I be forced to defend myself, my principals or my honor, Should it be a matter of life or death, right or wrong, Then here are my weapons karate · my empty hands. Join the Notre Dame Karate Club, Call Randy ~143. 
Michiana Sports Car Club meeting 8 pm Feb. 1. Frist Bank & Trust US 31 North & Cleveland Road. Phone 272-9914. 
Musicians to play in orchestra for musical comedy review. Call Marty at 4436 tor details. 
ON CAMPUS INTERVIEWS THURS. FEB. 8 Camp Wayne: childrens summer camp N.E. Pennsylvania. 3 hrs NYC & Phita, Counselors who like children with specialties in sports, water, arts, & science activities. Sign-up room 207, Administration Bldg. Write 633 
Barnard Ave., Woodmere N.Y. 
11598. 

Sun Freaks: Nassau is warm, sunny, clear & dry. Deepen your Florida tan. March 9·16. $189. 
ATTENTION ALL DOGS 
lf you are a large, black, male dog, half Newfoundland (or full. blooded for that m alter). adopted 
from the St. Joe Humane Society nearly 2 yrs. ago, and you would like to m.eet an attractive, wanton female with similar background, call 288·6192, and hurry, she's in heat heat right now! 
Part-time jobs available for 
Hostesses, Cocktail Waitresses & 
Busboys. Please apply in person between 2 & 5 pm, Boars Head Restaurant 52885 US 31 North. South Bend. 
FOR SALE 

For Sale: Ampex 87R am-tm stereo cassette system. Ex· cellent condition. Cheap -must sell. Call Bob 2140. 
68 VW In excellent condition ­$1000. Call 232-3631 after 5 pm. 
Westinghouse and Santo Com. pact Refrigerators. Discount prices to NO-SMC students and faculty. Many models available for Immediate free delivery. Call Tom 234·0578 or 232·2618. 
For Sale. Notre Dame jacket; perfect dondition; size 48: $13, half bookstore price. Call Herb 8220. 
8·track stereo tapes $3.50 ­Large selection. Call 1212 and . -'ask for Kurt. 
'71 Honda 600 Sedan like new cond. 40 MPG economy. 4 speed, bucket seats, front wheel drive. $950. J.M. Causey, days 282·2591, eves. 291·2975. 
FOR RENT 

Bedroom for rent in private t>Ome one mile from campus. All privileges of comfortable home including cooking and laund·y. 272.2445 after B pm. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost electric Timex watch before Thanksgiving. Please return, reward. Mick 1496. 
Lost: Silver watch with black band and safety pin on Dec. 10. Please contact Mary Beth, 5366, 
537 RN . SMC. 
Found: GM ignition Key 1·20·73 between fieldhouse & Iibrary. Call 7471. 
Lost: gold medal cit Christ Of great value to me. Reward. Nick 
1747, 805 Grace. 
Found:. one red mitten near Grotto. Call Gil 1>808. 
.. 
8 
the observer Thursday, January 25, 1973 
Irish.Illinois clash tonight in Stadium 
"Illinois has three of the finest·
. by Jtm Don~ldson 
Sports Edttor 
Notre Dame's basketball ~earn t>nter yet another hostile arena to~ig~t .. me~ting long~time rival l!l~nms.m Ch1cag.o Stadmm at 8:30, !<.ST.. m the first game of a colleg1ate. double-header. 
The lnsh. who h~ve already played o.n the mhosp1table home courts of DePaul, Ma~quette and Duq~esne. ~here Wl~nmg strea~s flo~nsh: w.lll be try1~g to regam their wmnmg form 1~ an .arena where they have won JUSt e1ght of their last :30 games. 
AftPr breaking DePaul's 11­gamP home court winning streak and Marquette's famous 81-game skl'in earlier this month, the Irish 

It failed in their hid to snap Duquesne's 14-game unbeaten string in Pittsburgh's Civic Arena Monday night. The loss to the Dukes also ended Notre Dame's five-gam£' winning streak and dropped the Irish record below .500, to li-7. Irish coach "Digger" Phelps isn't bothered by past per­formances-which show that Notre Dame has won only two of its last 10 gaml's with the Fighting Illinois in Chicago Stadium-but he need onlv to look at Illinois' current rt>c.ord and roster to be concerned about tonight's encounter. 
1-h volleyball tourney set 
Tlw lnterhall Athletics Office is prPsently accepting rosters from those halls wishing to participate in the Interhall Volleyball tour­namt•nt. The tournament will be run on an elimination basis, with no limit set upon the number of tPams from any one hall. Each 
team roster is to have a minimum of seven (7> players. Rosters should be submitted to Mr. Tom KPIIy at the Interhall Athletic Office. room C-4 of the ACC. l>Padline for applications is next l\londay. January 31st. 
ThrPe other tournaments are currently being organized by the players on any one team we have 
. . .
met this year tn (Nick) Weatherspoon (Nick) Conner and (Jerfl Daws~n" Phelps says. 
.. Aside from 'UCLA, Illinois presents the most difficult problem for our defense yet this season. Trying to stop Illinois will create a lot of headaches, sfnce they are big and strong and possess a Jot of talented individuals. They did the best job of anyone to date against UCLA. losing by only seven points 171-64) in the Sugar Bowl Tourn­nament finals." 
Weatherspoon, a 6-6 forward, is considered one of the nation's top players and leads his club with a 
2:u ppg scoring average. He's also a strong rebounder. as his 10-plus career average per game in­dicates. 
Dawson. a 6-2 guard, and Con­ner. the team's center at 6-6, ably complement Weatherspoon and have been averaging 19.9 and 12.2 ppg. respectively. Dawson played his first two years of college ball at Duke before transferring to Illinois and sitting out last season. The year of enforced idleness doesn't seem to have hurt his ef­fectiveness, however. 
With that trio leading the way, coach Harv Schmidt's squad has compiled a 7-4 record, although 
Interhall Office. A do~bl~s hand­hall tournament, spec1fymg that both memb~rs mu.st be from the same hall: IS gettmg underway. Also. a smgles paddleball tour­I~ament and a graduate school ~acuity. handball. tournament are 
oth bemg orgamzed. 
UCLA pep rally 
John 'Shue· Shumate, Gary "Goose" Novak, and Fighting Irish Coach "Digger" Phelps highlight ;: pep rally planned for Saturday afternoon at 2:00p.m. in 
the Convocation Center Fieldhouse. · 
D0 n Si1in5 kiummuummmtmHtmmmmmumwuuuuuuummumml 
The Irish Eye 
!tumnuuummmmHmummumuummuumuHmtmt: The sc h eduIe 
It's no secret that Notre Dame has the most demanding basketball schedule in the nation. But why has Notre Dame built its schedule to this pPak? Should the coaches continue to p\lrllue this type of competition in 
the future? 
Many people feel that should the schedule be weakened somewhat, the tt~am would be assured of a post-season tournament bid almost every year. But the feeling with the coaches,players, and, I'm sure, many fans, is that in order to be one of the best teams in the nation, you have to play the best in the nation. Unfortunately, some sportswriters don't feel that way. and. to them, all that matters is the team's won-loss record. 
A schedule of this nature has many benefits in areas other than just competition. It can provide better bargaining power when the coaches are recruiting prospective athletes. All good high school players want to play the best teams when they reach the college ranks. Another ad­\·antage is increased TV and press coverage. We are presently on tPievision about seven times a year, both regionally and nationally, dPpending upon the importance of the game. The team also receives a little more ink in the newspapers because we are usually playing a top­ranked team every other game. There, too, is always spectator appeal of playing the best ball clubs in the country. The paying customers get to sel' the best college players and coaches in the nation. The fans that follow Notre Dame usually get their money's worth by getting a chance to watch great talent across the country. There is also that little benefit of money that the schedule brings to the university. 
The most important argument for accumulating the toughest teams in the country is competition. By playing a fluke schedule, it may get you tp the tournament easier, but the players and coaches will not know how good they really are. Of course, a top-notch schedule can backfire on a team if they continuously get "blown out" in the games. If this happens, the school should slacken the schedule or I:ecruit more heavily for better talent. Notre Dame is always in the game and will continue to provide this type of competition. By having great teams week after week, a squad can lose teams and then bounce back into the limelight by knocking off a high-ranked opponent. This was evident when we beat Marquette, and received press coverage as if w~ were in the top twenty. The experience gained in the early part of the season against highly-respected teams will cl'rtainly help in the remaining games. 
Overall. we feel that the schedule is here to stay for the above­mentioned reasons, among others. How· many teams get to play the numher-one ranked team in the nation in a game that will make or break the all-time college basketball winning streak? 
Ilhn01s has been Idle smce postmg 
a home court victory over Iowa on 
Jan 13
' · · 
Notre Dame will hope to counter 
the efforts of Weatherspoon, 
Conner, Dawson and company 
with its usual starting five of John 
Shumate, Gary Novak and Pete 
Crotty in the front line and Dwight 
Clay and Gary Brokaw at the 
guards. That quintet isn't 100 per 
cent physically, though. Brokaw is 
bothered by a blister on his foot 
and Shumate. who took a hard 
blow to the shoulder in the 
Duquesne game, is still quite sore. 
The pair are Notre Dame's leading scorers, Brokaw topping the club with a 19.0 average and Shumate just behind at 18.7. Clay and Novak are also averaging in double figures. 
Following the Irish-Illini game, UCLA will attempt to tie the all­time NCAA record for consecutive victories, 60, against Loyola of Chicago. If the Bruins, 14-0 this season. are successful. they" have 


a chance to set a new record Cl'nter before a sellout crowd and a UCLA. Austin Carr and company Saturday afternoon in Notre national television audience. The pinning an 89-82 setback on the Dame's Athletic and Convocation Irish were the last team to defeat Bruins. Jan. 23, 1971. 
Novak: An old man on ayoung team 
The Irish will attempt to get back on the winning road tonight as they battle the Fightin' Illini of Illinois in Chicago Stadium-game time 8:30 pill. 
by Vic Dorr 
Gary Novak, the 6-7, 190 pound '.'Goose" on Notre Dame's varsity basketball team, has achieved an unusual distinction this year. He is the "other" starter--the only non­sophomore starter--on Digger Phelps' youthful cage squad. 
The position of being the "old man" on the starting team is a novel one to Novak, a junior in pre­med. but the position of being a starter is not. "Goose" is in the middle of his second season of Fighting Irish basketball, and last ~·ear hE appeared in every one of ND's 26 outings. 
Novak was chosen the Most Valuable Player of last season's 6­20 team. and he earned the award by leading the club in both scoring ! 19.5 points per gamel and rebounding (10.3 per game l. His statistics have fallen off during the first 13 games of the 1972-'73 season. but "Goose" has found a place on a team that knows it can win. and he's not about to lament his decreased scoring average. 
"Last year." he remembered, "it .i'.1st seemed like some games-­like UCLA out there--well there were just overwhelming odds against us. And just having an attitude like that was detrimental to us. We kept thinking, 'It's going to be tough to beat these guys--and 20 times last year we went into the locker room as losers. Last year wl' could never pull off the big upset. Pither. and this year we have. We're a team with more unity this year. and we think we can play with anybody." 
The Irish cagers began their '72 schedule just that way. Playing the roughest December slate in the nation. they tangled with Michigan. Ohio State, Indiana, and UCLA. ND lost six of those first seven games, but in only one of them--UCLA on the west coast-­was the margin of defeat worse than 10 points. 
But with the New Year came a turnabout. Notre Dame won five games in a row, including upsets of Marquette and Kansas, and Monday's nine-point lose to Duquesne was ND's first setback of 1973. 
"Duquesne came as somewhat of a let-down," said Novak.-"We didn't have that good of a first half, and we came back strong in the second half but a few mistakes at the end hurt us. Most everyone's going to put that game behind them n.ow. though. 
"We've got a lot more confidence now than we had early in the year. 


Junior Gary Novak, ND's top rebounder also provides experience and scoring potential. 
We had some tough games in December when we were just getting to know each other--we'd play well until the last five or six minutes and then we'd tighten up-­but that just comes from too little l'xperience. This season is the first time that all five of us have played together. and we're just now getting to know each other. 
"Wl' know," he continued, "we know now that w~ can pull out the dose ones. Beating Kansas in overtime gave us a life. We'd been in that situation two or three times before. and it was good to finally pull one out. We think," he rl'peatl'd, "that we've got the talent to play with anybody in the country. It's just a question of putting everything together." 
The talent of which Novak speaks so highly is there in good amounts. but it has forced a change in the lanky junior's style of offensive play. The presence of guards Dwight Clay and Gary Brokaw and center John Shumate has caused a marked drop in Novak's shot-per-game figures <he averagl'd 18 point field goal trys Pach outing last yearl, and now has his average hovering near the 12-point mark. But there has been another effect. Novak's reboun­ding is as good--if not better--than last year's. 
"With players like Brokaw and Shumate." he commented, "we have quite a bit more. offensive potential this year than last. And it has affected my style of play, because our offense this year gives everyone the chance to score if we Pxecute it right. Broke and Shumate are probably our best offensive players, so we do go to them more. This may mean that I take fewer shots, but it also means that I'm free to go to the boards. And that's the only way to win against these high-ranked clubs-­you have to have unity as a team." 

Tonight. against Illinois in Chicago Stadium. the Irish will play their fourteenth game of the season--against another highly­rated team. "I think it'll be determined by who can do the best job on the offensive and defensive boards." said Novak. 
"With pressure we can shut down their offensive potential, but it's always tough to play up there. The crowd will be mostly pro­Illinois. and it'll be a lot like playing in "neutral" Louisville. UCLA will be in the back of everyone's' mind, but we have to play Illinois first. 
"We need a win against Illinois." 





