~------------------------------------------~--­
OD The Inside 
SLC on Parties 
... page 2 
Band in sight 
••• page 3 

-~ 


serving the notre dome -st. mary's community
Volume VIII, No. 16 Wednesday, September 26, 1973 
HPC announces deadline for hall funds requests 
by Kit Baron Staff Reporter 
At the HPC meeting held at 6 p.m. yesterday evening in St. Edward's Chapel, President Fred Baranowski reminded he hall presidets that the deadline fr all hall fund requests is next Tuesday, October 2. Forms to be submitted must include a detailed listing of the hall's necessities along with their cost estimates. 

In the past many conflicts arose over the distribution of the hall life fund appropriations and the uses of the money allocated. vvnue the Student Government wanted the apportion most of the ex­penditures toward permanent improvements which would benefit the residence hall at the time of in­stallment and in the future, individual resident halls requestedappropriationsfor social functions: dinners, banquets, etc. Resolving this dispute, 1973's HLC will emphasize allocations for permanent improvements before it proceeds to considering social functions. 
According to .mala~Baranowski ,the budgethearings which will be announceo ltext week, should exceed last year's allotment. Last year $5100 _was distributed thoughout the hall life fund while $10,000 passed through the fund in 1971. In 1971, FisherRalf received the largest allotment for rennovation of theri basement. Obtaining the largest grant made to a single residence hall last year, St. Edward's Hall 


received $375 
A fiveperson committee will attempt to allocate funds on the basis of what a hall received last year and what their needs appear to be this year," stated Baronowski. "I feel this is of primary concern to the halls, which is the reason we're starting it so early this year." 
The hall life fund committee members are Kathy Ceskanski, rector of Breen Phillips: Bob Chang, President of Howard Hall; Wally Glasior, President of Dillon; Pat McGloughlin, who represents Pangborn Hall and Fred Baranowski, President of Holy Cross and the HPC. 
Expecting to have final allocations ready for the halls by the middle of October the committee plans to prepare a tentative listing within the week of the deadline date. Subsequently, discussion and alterations will follow and the money will be allocated the the respective resident halls. 
"This is an excellent use of the Student Activities fee, " commented Baranowski. "Part of the money the student pays in his activity fee will be 1 indirectly returned to him through the hall life fund allocations." 
The costs will vary among the individual requests to besubmitted. Since Steve Decoursey from Cabanaugh will request money for the re-surfacing of their pool table, Keenan's Charlie Cardelo is thinking of fur­nishing the basement of Stanford with tables, chari, and maybe a jukebos, making an atmosphere con­ducive to food sales. Pat McCGloughlin Pangborn plans to request a new TV room furnitute and new carpeting. 
Also discussed briefly at the HPC meeting was the co-exchange meal program between Notre Dame and St. Mary's students. It was reported that Edmaund Price, the Director of the Food Service at Notre Dame, has indicated plans are in the making. Next on his agenda is a discussion with the SDSt. Mary's Food Service. 
Presidents were reminded to select a responsible freshman student to each of the halls on the Freshman Advisory Board, which is didirected by Emil T. Hof­
man. 
Seven unopposed candidates 
St. Mary's elections held 
by Rick Scharf 
Staff Reporter 

Seven unopposed candidates were elected to student govern­ment positons at St. Marys in Monday's elections. The only two 
contested positions will be determined in run-offs on Monday, Oct. 1. 
The fall elections became necessary because not enough candidates ran in the elctions held last spring to fill all the available positions. The ST. Mary's Elec­tions are run by the Election Committee whose members are Patti Kampsen, and Hall Vice Presidents: Kathy McGuiness, Lemans; Bebe Cassatyrum GHoly Cross; Mary Kay Comaty, McCandless; and Laurie Peeler, Regina North. 
Election results in the student assembly position in Holy Cross were: Debbie Schoberlien, 68 votes; Jackie Eickholt, 22 votes; Joan Zimmerman, 20 votes; and 24 abstentions. Debbie Schoberlien and Jackie Eickholt will face each other in the run-off. 
In the Vice Presidential election 

for Regina South the results were: Deb Foran 23 votes; Dorothea Sieland, 22 ~otes; Jane Bustin, 18 votes· and 23 abstentions. The run­off ik~ Regina South will involve Deb Foran and Dorothea Wieland. 
The campaigns for the run-offs will begin Thursday, Sept. 27 at 8 a.m., and end Sunday, Sept. 30 at midnight. Voting will take place Monday, Oct. 1, from 10 a.m. ~til 6 p.m. in Holy Cross and Regma South. 
"To win the election a candidate needs simple ,jajority of all votes cast with abstentions going to the maj~rity," Kampsen pointed out.~· 
Results of Monday's elections at St. Mary's were released Tuesday afternoon, accompanied by guidelines for a run-off election to be held next week. The results were delayed until a review of election procedures was completed 
.by the Election Committee. 
Some confusion existed con­cerning the need for run-offs in certain races following Monday's election. " On behalf of the Election Committee, I would like to apologize for the confusion that resuled from Monday's election," said Patti Kampsen, Election Committee Chair person. "'Pt. procedures we are now followi-. are the proper procedures as stated in the Student Procedures Manual. Despite the in­convenience, holding e second election is only fair to the in­dividuals involved." 
The Election Committee decided that a run-off would be necessary in the contests involving more than two people running for one post. The run-off will affect the election for student assembly representat­ive from Holy Cross, and Vice President from Regina South. 
"Last Monday's election will count as a primary," said Kamp­sen, "and the two candidates who received the most votes in each race will be involved in the next Monday's run-off." 
Kathy Kerrigan and Sue Swift are the new LeMans student assembly representatives. ~e three available assembly post m Regina were filled by Mary Lu Bilek, Melinda Gianni, and Janie Schlitz. The new Day Student representative elected is Pam King, and Kathy Mirro ~s the new Off-Campus representative. 

Dean Murphy to step down at end of school year 

Dean Murphy will return to teaching. 
Prof. Thomas T. Murphy, the fourth dean of the College of 

Business Administration, today announced his resignation 
effective at the end of the 1973-74 academic year. He will retu~ 
to teaching in the Department of Finance. 
In accepting the resignation of the 57 year old specialist in 

business finance, the president of the University, Rev. Theodore 
M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., commented, "Dean Murphy's 12 years as head of our second largest College have been highlighted by increased under graduate enrollment, improved faculty quality, inauguration of a master's program, and dedication of a modern new building. His academic leadership has been of the veryhighest, and we shall miss it." 
Murphy joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1946 after receiving his B.B.A. and M.C.S. from Boston University and graduating from the U.S. Naval War College. He had taught previously at Aquinas College in Grand Rapids, Michigan, and Holy Cross College in Worcester, Mass. 
His first administrative assignment was as director of the program for administrators in 1955. He was appointed assistant dean of the College in 1957 and acting dean in December, 1962, upon the appointment of Dean James W. Culliton to the U.S. Triff Commission. He was appointed permanently to the deanshiip the following year. 
He helped plan the M.B.A. program instituted by the College in 1967, and he presided over the dedication of the graduate program's facility, Hayes Healy Center, two years later. He played a major role in the 50th anniversary of business education at Notre Dame observed in 1971. The College of Business Administration's total enrollment this year is 1,440, making it the University's largest after Arts and Letters. 
Murphy has been a member of the President's Export Ex­pansion Council, an advisory group to the U.S. Sof Commerce, for seven years and has served on both the graduate and un­dergraduate accreditation committees of the American Association of Collegiate Schools of Business. He has two sons now at Notre Dame-Cornelius S., a freshman, and Thomas T., a sophomore. 
Father Hesburgh said a search committee, composed offive members from among full and associate professors in th College and a student in the College, will be formed to nominate can­didates for the deanship according to procedures outlined in the recently revised Academic Manual. 


Tom Clements leads Irish into Ross-Aide Stadium Saturday to face the Purdue Boilerm11kers. 
Wednesday, September 26, 1971
the observer 


~warld .-brief~. 
_, 

Washington -Vice President Spiro T. Agnew, informed that evidence involving him will go to a federal grand jury this week, asked the House of Representatives Tuesday for a full investigation that could lead to his vindication or impeachment. 
Declaring again that "I have nothing to hide," Agnew made his request ina letter read on th House floor. The House adjourned without debating the proposal. 
President Nixon, who had met separately Tuesday morning with Agnew and Attorney General Elliot L. Richardson, issued a statement urging the public to give Agnew "basic, decent con­sideration and presumption of inocence that are both his right and his due." 
"During out discussion," Nixon said, "the vice president again ­as he had done in our previous meetings, denied the charges that had been made against him." 
Aboard Uss New Orleans-Skylablab 2'ss astronauts flew their crippled Apollo to a safe, bullseye splashdown in the choppy Pacific Tuesday and reported they were feeling "just fine" at the end of man's longest and most productive spaceflight. . 
Alan L. Bean, Owen K. Garriott and Jack R. Lousna enJoyed a smooth end to a 24.4 million mile, 59 day, 11 hour and 4 second voyage around the earth. The big question to be answered later was how well were they readapting to the rigors of earth's gravity after living in weightlessness a month longer than anyone else. 
an campus taday 
12: 30p.m.--registration--center lobby cce, two­day conference on government, the family and abortion, three sessions per day at 1:30, 4, 8p.m., open to the oublic. 
1:30-4:30 pm -open house, placement bureau, s­gn up for interviews for week of oct. 8 and regi­tration, 2nd floor, administration building. 
3p.m.--seminar--"damping studies of gamma eradiation damage," dr. nicholas f. fiore, room S, engineering bldg. 
3: 
25p.m.--lecture--"performance of stirred tank ion exchange contactors; ideal and non-ideal.'' dr. paul belter, room 269, chem. engineering bldg. 

3: 
30p.m.--colloquium--"introduction to error­correcting codes," dr. james massey, room 303, engineering bldg. 


6:30 pm -meeting, sailing club, engineering auditorium 
7:30 pm -meeting, astronomy club, 123 nieuwland scince hall ' 
7: 15p.m.--meeting--m.e.c.h.a., basement of Iafortune. 
8: 15p.m.recital--karl greenshileds, violin; william cerny, piano, library auditorium, free. 

Jordan Ford 
LOIS TRANTER 259-1981 RENTAL MANAGER CRAIG KAPSON 259-1981 VICE PRESIDENT 
Mishawa·k 
SLC nears party solution 
by Tony Proscio Staff Reporter 
Student Body President Dennis Etienne says t~e SLC party debate, a Student Government! priorities, may be nearing a solution. Ex­pecting a "very fruitful meeting" of the Sudent Life Council tonight Eienne outline new pojects un­derway in his office. 
"We have several things we've been working on," he said. "Our stand on the (Gallo) wine boycott is still the same. We'll be handling distribution of co-ex meal tickets and we'll keep working with the Board of Commissioners on other areas of the student manual." 
Commenting after a meeting with Dr. Robert Ackerman, director of staff development for the Office of Student Affairs, Etienne anticipated and end to the hall party controversy and a chance to begin work on other 
projects. 1 
One such project will be renewal of Student Government efforts to encourage legislation lowering the drinking age. A bill to that effect was defeated in the state legislature last year. 
"Letters went out this week to all 48 continental states asking for statistics showing whether there is any correlation between the drinking age and traffic deaths in those states," he noted. Results of the with letters


notre dame concerts -student union present 
NEW RIDERS OF THE PURPLE SAGE 
Friday October 5 at 8:30\in the ACC 
extra added attraction: 

ROGER McGUINN , 
Cformerlyj of the Byrds) 
Special low prices: $~.50, 3.50, 2.50 I 
Tickets on sale now at Student Union Ticket ­ffice (11-1, 3-5) aAd at the ACC Ticket Office (9-5) 


urging drinking law reform, will then go to each of the state legislators. 
So before, Etienne added, his office will enlist the support of other colleges and universities throughout the state. 
"We have a familiarity established between us now. All we have to do is get together again and see what out goals are," he continued. 
Three areas pose important issues for the inter-collegiate group. In addition to drinking· legislation, the SBP cited state aid to higher education, laws defining landlord and tenant rights a responsibilities, and the Equal Rights and Right to Life amend­ments. 
"We consider state aid a number one issue," he noted, "and the rental laws are important because they apply to student rented housing all over the state." 
Because of the number of students living in rented housing, Etienne said that clarification and 
strenthening 1 of the law is essential. 
He added that no meeting of the students from the various college has been set, but more definite plans should be ready around the end of November 
Co.-ex meal tickets beteen Notre Dame and St. Mary's students will be distributed beginning October first. May Mlidor, co-ex coor­
dinator for the STudent Govern­
ment Rsearch and Development 
Commission, said that plans for 
ticket distribution are not yet final. 
"We will be working with the Food Service Advisory Com­mission, composed of Mr. Price <Food Service Director), managers of both dining halls, and six students. Sr. Basil Anthony will handle it on St. Mary's side," she explained. Tickets will be distributed on rotation, Molidor noted, rather than on a first-eome, first-serve basis. ·Further details 
will be set this week. 



the distillery 
Liquor Store 1723 South Bend Ave. 
272-9800 Open till 11 :00 Fri. & Sat. 
East on Edison-Take a left at the linebackerr-200 yds. on left 
Wednesday, September 26, 1973 
the observer 

Practice makes Jerfect 
Band marches to smiling Irish eyes 
by Judy Rauenhorst Staff Reporter 
It is not only the football team who prepares for a Saturday game, but the Band of the Fighting Irish as well. Much hard work and many practice hours go into each home pregame and halftime performance. 
Under the guiding baton of Director Robert F. O'Brien, the marching band is filled with spirit and dedication. Mr. O'Brien been back at school. Practice and try-outs began the Friday before classes started, so all prospective band members had to arrive early. 

To get everyone in shape, they marched out to the practice field, ran around it twice, then did a routine of calistenics. 
Band President Bob Swanson explained the reasoning behind the exercise. "Marching is a very physical thing," he said, "and it is difficult to get the proper breathing, so we make sure 
Observer lnsi1Jhl 
(fondly called O'B · by band members), is proud of his group and expects a lot of them. Ac­cording to one member, "O'B is the greatest. Without him the band would be nothing. He is not a slave-driver, but we sure work!" 
The time and work involved is evident if one looks at a band member's routine since he has everyone is physically fit." 

After four days of strenuous practice, auditions were held and 136 students were admitted to the band. This number makes it one of the largest in the history of Notre Dame, O'Brien said. 
Rehearsals then began on a regular basis. The members were given music and marching for­mations two weeks prior to the game. This all had to be memorized, as no music is allowed on the field. 
Swanson explained that all of the music is arranged by O'Brien. He, along with Associate Direc,or James S. Phillips, works to get copyrights for all of the songs they use, and to get ideas for the dif­ferent formations. 
About eleven hours a week is spent in rehearsal time. Practice on Monday from 4:30-6p.m. in the band room is devoted to parts and making sure everything sounds right. Tuesday they march out to the practice field to test the music outside. Wednesday and Thursday nights are spent at the practice field until they "have the show down," Swanson said. It is not unusual to hear Drum Major Tim Brosnan blowing his whistle or calling, "Pick up your feet!" 
The pep rally follows the Friday afternoon practice. The band members enter the band room with their cigars and hardhats. Roll is taken and everyone must be 


Before: 

present or the entire band cannot march in the rally. The highlight of the pre-rally is the "Raunchy Radcliff Award" w-hich is presented to the "raunchiest" band member. 
(continued on page 7) 
241 Dixieway North 1 mi. north of ND Guitars I Accessories Music ~Instruction 


Everything for the guitarist' 

Tirt$fOnt 
Tires 
GROUP PURCHASE AGREEMENT 
Now available at a special discount to all students and em­ployees of Notre Dame. We handle a complete line of 4 ply, 
Belted, Radial, and Import car tires; at your special price. Also, our Philco appliance and Electronic Department will extend the discount. Please bring your I.D. card for iden­tification. 
OFFER GOOD ONLY AT OUR DOWNTOWN STORE 
502 S. Michigan South Bend, Indiana 
Band President Bob Swanson addresses members before a workout. 

Upon presentation of Student 1 D 
(Sept. 26-30) Please present I D before cashier rings sale. 

~ 
~~ 
~ 


Sillel 5
• 



Jlilll' 1111111111'1~
Shop: Monday-Saturd1y 10-10. Sund1y 10·t Phone_ 2St-OIIO 
100 Center Complex Mishawaka 


During: 

Student Billing Service 
makes sense! There's no reason why you shouldn't enjoy the convenience of making long distance calls from your residence hall room phone and receiving a monthly bill for your calls ... and yours only! 
That service is available right here, right now. Dorm resi­dents may pick up their Student Billing Cards at the Indiana Bell Office. Talk it up. 
We'll mail you a Student Billing Card, if you'll call 234-5088. Or you can drop in at our Business Office at 225 S. Main Street. Open 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday. 
·I @Indiana Bell jjj! 
~ ~
. 
~ 

N N 
~l:;;:;;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;::::::~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:::::::::;:::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::: 


THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
t 
Art Ferranti Executive Editor 
Lee Gentine Business Manager 
Jerry Lutkus Editor-in-Chief 
Dan BarreH Executive Editor 
NEWS: 283-1715 

EDITORIALS: 283-8661 John Kloos 
BUSINESS: 283-7471 
Advertising Manager 

Wednesday, September 26, 1973 
Permanent Funds 
Before they have even begun to allocate money, the Hall Life Committee has made an important decision. They have made it known that in allotting the money to the halls, they will emphasize allocations for permanent improvements to the halls over money for social ac­tivities in the halls. 
Last year, it wasn't like this and the change will be refreshing. The funds, $5100 last year and $10,000 in 1971, should be earmarked to make physical im­provements in the halls. Itis nonsense to pass money on to halls for their own social activities. Any hall that is run efficiently and properly can produce the necessary money themselves to hold social events. It is not the Hall Life Committee's duty to subsidize hall ac­
tivities. 

There are exceptions, of course, but these mustbeminimal Forexample, the girl's dorms do not have food sales that support the hall treasuries which fund hall activities. So, in a case like this, it would be plausible to fund a hall's social events. But for the most part, it is not 
student government's concern to fund hall affairs. 
The fact that the Hall President's Council and the HLC have already begun work on the allocations and intend to distribute the monies by mid-October is another good move. Hopefully this year, hall residents can much earlier begin to 
appreciate the benefits of the added 
funds. 

Co-ex Dining 

One minor item of discussion at the HPC meeting was the question of co-ex dining with Sl Mary's. Co-ex dining has been tied up in red tape now for the entire month of September with out many results to show for the work and 
discussion being done. To top it off, many 
people involved are being very hush-hush 
about it. It's time to get this problem 
solved. 
Unfortunately, the co-ex dining situation appears to be yet another area where cooperation between the two adjoining campuses is falling apart. It is sneseless after the year of hard work that tried vainly to bring the campuses together, that small things like direc­tories and co-ex dining will allow the two schools to drift aparl 
Jerry Lutkus· 


Lap Seats: $8 
An absolutely unbelievable letter which arrived at The Observer office Tuesday ponted out again a great deal of the ab­surdity that th big business of college football has brought to Notre Dame. 
Two married students brought their five-month old child to the stadium to attend the game with them Saturday. Probably not wanting to leave the child at home alone, or not being able to afford a babysitter, they brought her along. Remarkably enough, the trio was denied entrance. The man in charge informed the couple that "Everyone must have a ticket, regardless of age." Be serious!! A five-month old child certainly does not recollect any of the game, nor does she take up a seat that would bring a healthy $8 to the athletic department coffers. It is this kind of total absurdity that really costs a pall over the excitement and fun of college football. This kind of big business and absurdity has to be ended. 
Jerry Lutkus 

Opinion Thoughts of a Puzzled Being 
taail pacus 

Is there anyone else here who is as sick and tired of the super­ficiality and triviality (which this microcosm-macrocosm seems so centered around> as I am? Or am I the only one who feels that there is more to social life than the party syndrome--the great game so many people play because they say there's nothing else to do-no other way to meet anybody? <Show me a person who really had a good time at partying or at a kegger--in the ND tradition, of course--and nine times out of ten I'll show you a liar or a "wet rag in the corner" who was too drunk or too stoned to know if it was a good time or bad). 
Will my thoughts echo timidly, alone, over many heads, sailing past closed ears, or will those who have admitted to me that they, too, are fed up with going out for the sake of going out (praise thee, you month­old freshmen, for you are learning more quickly than most!), those who see no point in superficial "friendships" and the trivial small talk, "don't bother looking for the real me"--will you speak out also? 
This ND-SMC "community" is a land of plenty, and of waste. For, those fine people who refuse to play in the vicious circle "go to a party to meet people and have a lousy time trying" game have virtually no alternatives ... those probably most worth our while sit in, and feel a frustrated alienation choke them more each weekend. 
"You do your thing and I do my thing". Thank you, Fritz Perls. But what happens to those whose "thing" it isn't, but they persist in doing it because the alternative to a "great time" demands a high price of loneliness? Is there room for "round pegs in square holes", or must we fit into the mold before we feel "happy"? 
Many people (if they've bothered to read this far) will probably protest "What superficiality? Change to what?" Much talk is there of masks and shells which we don... but who ever applied the words to himself but he who is already aware of the unnecessary layers? Pull your head out and observe, listen, next time you talk to someone. If the words come out "Hi--how are you (smile)" "Fine-who the hell are you?", many people won't catch it, since they weren't really listening anyway. 
I rebel against these unnecessary, man-made facets of the human condition which are in our own backyard. If I am alone, I will fight all the harder. But, am I alone? Does anyone share similar feelings as mine? Will you tell me how goes your head? Please. 
:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::<=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::,::::::::;:::::::::::::::: 
NO: The Rehabi I ~tat or 
Dear Editor: Not many people know this, but there is a conspiracy among the infants of married students here at ND. In fact, I myself had this last Saturday to suffer the shock of discovering that my own five­month old daughter, Maurika, was involved in the plot. It seems that the endearing in­nocence of all those babies who can't yet walk or talk or eat by themselves has been but a ruse, a disguise assumed in order to achieve the one objective which is the purpose of the conspiracy; admission to a Notre Dame foot­ball game. Fortunately, my wife and I have been mercifully spared the shame of being accomplices to this ignominious crime, thanks to the untiring vigilance of one of those unsung heroes who guard the gates of the Stadium. I hate to admit it, but it appears Maurika unscrupously took ad­vantage of our deep affection for her and persuaded us, in her own wordless way, to take her along to the game.The conscientous ticket­taker, on the other hand, informed ~s of thestanding rule: Everyone, regardless of age, must have a 

ticket. 
When we, apparently still under the hypnotic spell of naivety cast liy our daughter and her cohorts, contested this statement, the kind man, in the true spirit of justice, referred us to the man at the ticket window of Gate Fourteen. He, too, let not our protests fall upon deaf ears but, in turn, filed our appeal with Mr. Important. 
It was this kind man who laid bare the ignorant brashness of our actions. With a knowing style, he advised us of the infants' intentions and allowed us to save face in the crowd by pretending to relent­
lessly invoke the precept: Everyone, regardless of age, must have a ticket. 
By this time, Maurika had given upwith a disappointed sigh and fallen asleep. We went home wiser parents, and the fact that we missed the opening game on our paid tickets is far and above compensated by the insight we have gained into our child's ac­tivities. 
So I wish to take this opportunity to thank the officials at the stadium for their help and con­sideration in refusing us admission because our infant daughter had no ticket. She will get no honey in her oatmeal for a week. 
John and Kitty Moore University Village 


the observer 
Night Editor: Jack Frischkorn Ass't Night Editor: Tom Devine Layout: Jack, Tom Typists: John Flannigan, Chris necht, Steve Roper, Phil Orscheln Night Controller: Howard ("Headline") Halle Compugraphic: Joe Abell 
Day Editor: Jim Rosini Copy Editor: Greg Aiello Pictures: Jerome 




what's a nice priest like you doing •1n a picket line like this? fr. biII toohey 
"Stupid priest bastard!" The car raced down Howard Street, past the A& P where a group of us were picketing. It was getting harder every time to resist giving a return shout and appropriate gesture when things like that happened. 
We had been at this thing for weeks now, since before school was out, and now it was the middle of the summer. We were a group of volunteers from :'llotre Dame and South Bend trying to support the farm workers struggle for justice. We were asking people to boycott A&P, in an effort to urge the store to insist that grapes and lettuce they pur­chased from growers had been harvested by workers affiliated with the United Farm Workers, the only union that could realistically claim to represent the workers. 
It surely doesn't take long (about 20 minutes) for any romance to go out of picketing; it soon gets to be hot, frustrating work,-but it helped me to Jearn a lot about others -and myself. 
One thing for sure: you run into all sorts of people. Some were openly hostile, but others were truly great. A lot of Blacks shop at the A&P, and many of them were forced to walk a good distance. I found I just couldn't ask them to go elsewhere to shop ­not when it entailed a real hardship. 
People in cars were a different story. Some were terrifically responsive, eager to support the cause, while others couldn't care less, and let us know it in no uncertain terms. Some of the best and some of the worst (if the truth be known) were Notre Dame people -students, faculty, staff. 
I found how hard it was for me to keep my cool, when conflicts arose. You know, you buy this non-violent, Jove~ven-those-who­reject-you approach; but it sure is hard to practice it. I discovered how far I still am from being gentle and accepting in the face of insult and harassment. 
insensitivity and insult 

I can still see one group of students coming out of the store, one waving a head of lettuce in my face while the others laughed. I was killing myself fighting for control, trying like mad not to do anything or say anything Iwould deeply regret. How Jesus, Gandhi, and Martin Luther King must have smiled at my little dilemma, so far from what they had to endure. I was forced to recognize that encounters like that really got to me. But the most painful of all were those occasional instances of faculty insensitivity and insult. It wasn't pleasant to have to admit to our Chicano friends that they were members of "the Notre Dame family". Because of this I was doubly grateful for the many beautiful people we met from the University. 
The A&P project concluded in mid-July when an agreement was made that they would make every effort possible to secure only UFW lettuce. Just about that time the scene for me shifted to the San Joaquin Valley in California. 
support for Chave~ 

Cesar Chavez had called for support from the major superiors of male religious communities in the United States. I was asked by Father Bill Lewers, our newly­elected Provivincial, to represent the Holy Cross Fathers. I flew to Bakersfield, meeting up with a fantastic group of men representing communities like the Jesuits, Dominicans, Paulists, Augustinians, etc. 
We had a briefing and retired early because we had to get up at the unbelievable hour of 3:30am so as to leave at 4:00 for our day's activities. We met as a group with the farm workers in a park in Lamont, about 8 miles south of Bakersfield to plan our strategy for the day. People were split up into various groups, all of us, however, going into one of the work camps to make our appeal to the workers who were not on strike before they actually left for the fields. 
It was quite a thrill to realize that one of the camps we went to -Sunset Camp -was the precise one about which John Steinbeck wrote in Grapes of Wrath. There were plenty of deputy sheriffs all around but they did not harass us in any positive way, although we were very careful not to trespass on private property. After the appeals made at the work camps we proceeded to various fields, in an effort to again approachthe workers and call them out of the fields into association with the other strikers. 
full day 

We left the fields before noon <but since we were out there at 4:30, it was already a pretty full day) to return to Lamont to prepare for a press conference which was to be held at noon. This conference was sponsored by the preists who wanted very much to present to the media who would be 
there (representatives from Time Magazine, Los Angeles Times, and the majo.r television networks) reasons for our presence in the San Joaquin valley. The statement we released attempted to state the importance the Church feels about the cause of social justice, and the particular eagerness of the group of men representing major communities of male religious to show in a very positive way their support for that labor force most deprived of benefits and just treatments. 
outdoor mass 

A large outdoor mass concluded the day's activites. Each of us introduced ourselves giving the community we represented and our location; and the people really seemed impressed by tne witness we were trying to give as a group to their cause. I was very impressed as well, as I looked around the group and saw people like Monsignor Higgings (the top Church authority on labor matters in the United States), Bishop Evans from Denver, and Father John Bank, the young priest who had recently been beaten up by a Teamster thug. 
I was lucky enough to be standing next to Cesar Chavez, and as you can imagine, was very moved during the greeting of peace at his warm and sincere sharing of Christ's love to me. He is, for my money, all the good things people say he is · I was deeply touched by everything I observed about him. Dr. John Bennett. the former president of Union Theological Seminary, was also there to make the presentation of the Reinhold Neibuhr Award tc Chavez (the award that Father Hesburgh received last year). Chavez refused to receive the award for himself personally, insisting it would be accepted only if it would be given to the entire United Farm Wrokers Union membership. That also says something about the type of man he is. 
In the end, however, the greatest and most lasting impression of those few days came from the farm workers and their families. As I looked out at that crowd during mass -a crowd of some seven to eight hundred -I was struck by the realization that I had never seen so many beautiful faces in my life-expressions of joy, peace, courage, deep commitment to a cause that they knew was blessed by their God. 
through the Red Sea 

I remember seeing faces of women that I had seen earlier in the day kneeling in the dust of farm roads saying their rosary, with the heat reaching 104 degrees. Con­sequently, it was from the people that I had the overwhelming conviction of how privileged we are to be able to join them and support them and be taught by them. 
My Jesson, I reflected on the flight home, was how much God must love these people Just as his Son had loved the downcast and oppressed of first-century Jerusalem. I had the firm conviction that he was once again going to lead his people through the Red Sea to freedom. 

rigor mortis does set in . 
For a while, John Entwistle seemed well on his way to breaking the "great group-bad solo" syndrome that had been affecting many performers <Beatles; Byrds; Crosby, Stills, Nash and Young) at the time. His first album, Smash your Head Against the Wall, was a critical, if not a commercial, success. Heavy , without sounding Who­ish, and brilliantly executed with the helpd of some able sidemen, it remains definitive Entwistle. Whistle Rhymes, his second release, represented a shift in style as well as a drop in quality. There were some good tunes, to be sure, but the over-all effect was spotty. The latest effort, Rigor Mortis Sets In, may prove to be just that. 
madcap and macabre 

Those whimsically morbid lyrics -Ent­wistle's queer fusion of the madcap and the macabre -have begun to wear a little thin this time around and the music just isn't solid enough to back them up. 
I don't know what sort of combination The Ox has been searching for with his revolving-Ooor procession of sidemen, but he should've stayed with the group from Smash. Whether it's for lack of material or just plain inspiration, the present group <Tony Ashton on keyboards; Graham Deakin, drums; and Alan Ross, guitars) just down't make it. You can't tell whether they're trying to play rock and roll or parody it but either approach requires some command of the genre, which they don't seem to have. 
Still, this isn't an altogether bad album, and, with a few changes, one that could've been a whole lot better. For one thing, the group could use another voice. Entwistle's pleasantly adenoidal vocals just aren't suited to this type of material, no matter how low a key it's played in. Alan Ross contributes a bit but he, too, lacks the necessary range and discipline to be a really good rock vocalist. A better singer might have salvaged songs like "Gimme That Rock N' Roll' and ''Made In Japan', the best cuts from an otherwise uninspired first side which also includes some listless covers of "Hound Dog" and "Mr. Bass Man". 
It's interesting to note how much better the band sounds when they're playing original material as opposed to the Fifties' songs, which are their supposed inspiration. On "Made in Japan," a full-fledged rocker, they're as tight as can be, following Ent­wistle's catchy bass line with their own driving rhythm. Ross and Ashton trade leads here, as they do throughout, but neither one can step out with enough authority to consistently build on the suggested bass riff. That Ashton's keyboards are so up-front to begin with underscores the lack of a strong lead. 
The second side opens with "My Wife," classic Entwistle but essentially the same song that appeared on The Who's Who's Next. "Roller Skate Kate" is one parody that really works, recalling visions of "Teen Angel" and J. Frank Wilson's immortal "Car Crash." Only the "do-wahs" are missing from this tongue-in-cheek tale of love lost at the roller rink. 
black humor 

The rest of the album is eminently forgettable, unless you're heavily into black humor, in which case you'll find it a veritable barrel of laughs. "Peg Leg Peggy' 
casey poc1us 
describes the fancy footwork of its one­legged heroine: "She's got a let that's shaped like the leg on a chair but when it comes to dancing no one can compare to Peg Leg Peggy, she really knows how to hop. 
When it comes to dancing, she's the queen 
she sounds just like a sewing machine 
that's Peg Leg Peggy, she really knows how to hop." And on it goes, with a basically good beat that's become repetitious and boring by the second chorus. 
"Lucille" is a remake of the Pen­niman--Collinshit that somehow begins to sound like the theme from Batman, a Who (nee Hi Numbers) standard from way, way back. "Big Black Cadillac" mercifully closes the side with some funny, if predic­table, lyrics and a flurry of unnecessary sound effects. 
intn the shadow 

If this were the first album by a new performer, I might have been inclined to dismiss some of the mistakes in arrangement and production as a result of inexperience, but in this case I just can't see it; the man simply has too much talent to be releasing stuff like this. Once upon a time, John Entwistle stepped out from behind his Who shadow to pen and play some mighty powerful music. Unfortunately, he just might be playing his way back there. As he sings on "Mr. Bass Man": :the bass is the hidden king of rock n' roll." For a while, perhaps he should be content with that. 

6 the observer Wednesday, September 26, 1973 
------·----­
NO MATTER HOW YOU LOOK AT IT-You will find tremendous savings l!!!!~~~ on these featured albums by shopping your local Shoppers Fair record dept 
Billion Dollar Babies Alice Cooper 



Sept 27, 28, and 29 (Thurs., Fri., & Sat.) SHOPPERS FAIR 

YOU CAN 

NEAR IRONWOOD DRIVE OPEN DAILY 10 A.M. to 10 P.M. SUHDAY"I J A.M. to 6 P.M. 
22nd annual 
ND hosts debate tourney 
by 'Terry Keeney Staff Reporter 

The Notre Dame Debate Club will hold its twenty-second annual National Invitation Debate Tournament this weekend. As the first Major tournament of the new school year, the tournament will attract teams from all over the country. 
According to Debate Club President David Hayes, Notre Dame will host 33 teams from 17 different schools. The competing teams include Baylor, Michigan, Purdue,Catholic University and last year's champion Wooster College. 
The debate topic for this year is : "Resolved: That the Federal Government should control the supply and utilization of energy in the United States." 
"This year's topic is especially relevant because it deals with such important issues as the current gasoline shortage, the use of atomic energy and the question of oil imports, " Hayes noted. 
The game day is the moment of truth 
(continued from page 3) 
But the band is continually 

working during the rally. Brosnan 
directs the band in Stepan Center 
and is sensitive to the moods of the 
rally so the band can respond 
accordingly. 
Arter the rally, the Freshmen 

are left to polish the tubas before 
the game. 
The final practice begins at 

9a.m. on Saturday. The show must 
be done perfectly before they leave 
for lunch. Prior to the game all 
band members assemble in the 
band room for roll and a brief tune­
up conducted by graduate 
assistants Bill Stahl and Roger 
Brown. The Band Chaplain, Rev. 
Joseph Miller, C.S.C., says a 
prayer before the band lines up 
outside for inspection. 
As the football crowd gathers 

around it, the band marches to the stadium. The anticipation builds as the band waits in the tunnel to go onto the field. 
After the game one "fifing Irish" commented, "If you are not in the band it is impossible to know the feeling of excitement before you trot out onto the field. It makes the hours of practice all worthwhile." 
-~ 
\"' 

The tournament will begin with three rounds on Friday aftermoon. Ttere will be four rounds of 
• debating Saturday with an eighth round and elimination rounds on Sunday. Debates will be held in various classroom guildings on F­iday and in the Center for Con­tinuing Education on Saturday and 
Sunday. In addition to conducting the Notre Dme tournament, the team, under the direction of Norm Lerum and John Borkowski, has am­bitious plans this year. The top­ranked team of Dave Hayes and Jeff Rajchel, who took third place at the novice national tournament last year, hopes to travel to debate tournaments from New Orleans to Atlanta to Boston The teams of John Flannigan and John Lund, Bill Hillstrom and Nancy Brenner, and a freshman team will compete for ND this weekend. These teams will not be eligible for awards. Tte club needs time-keepers for 
th tourent this weekend. Anyone interested in helping the Debate Club should call Dave Thaxton at 
1425. 


MCPC Inc. Skydiving center 
located 15 min. North East of N.D. 3 miles North of Edwardsburg, Mich. 
... for more information call (616) 445-8251 · 
Applications are now being accepted for the position of Observer features editor. Please submit resume and 
applicable portfolios to Jerry lutkus The Observer Box Q or c;ome to the office by Friday afternoon. 
Wednesday, September 26, 1973 
the observer 
7 

ALL THE BEER YOU CAN DRINK 
AT 




NICKlE'S 
Down the Boilermaker Party!! 

Tomorrow Nite! ! 8pm-2am Shots--35c Taped Music 

CLASSIFIED ADS 
FOR SALE 
MEERSCHAUM PIPES! 
Exceptional values, per­sonalized service. Catalog. 
PMP Co. Box 444. Gaither­sburg, MD. 20700. 
Pioneer SA-500 amp, TX-500 tuner, and SR-202W reverb amp. Dynaco Scaao amp 80 waHs RMS. Best offer. Call 8436. 
Handmade turquoise iewelerv from the southwest. Rin9s_. bracelets . . necklaces reasonably pr'iced. Call Tom at 283-8373 or drop by 209 Pangborn. 
500c.c. Suzuki with 600 mrres $650. 1949 H.O. basket case $150. Rick 233-9122. 
10-speed Peugeot just 6 mos. old. Must sell, graduating in 
Dec. $115. 8573. 

To the girls I exposed myself to Mon. night: what did you think? 
Pair RDC 2-way speakers. Originally $149. Had 2 mos. S120 or best offer. 232-6377. 
pandora's books 40per cent off on Journey to lxtlan, Breakfast of Champions, M.C. Escher, Buried Alive. and many other 
titles. Now thru 30 Sept. open noon to 9 mon thru sat., 9-7:30 sunday at 602 n. st. louls)at so. bend av.) 
Olson AM-FM stereo receiver built in cassette deck. Garrard x-10 turntable 1 yr. old ex­cellent cond. $185. Bruce 8314. 
2-F 78 x 14 snow tires. Used one winter. Like new. Mounted on rims. S20 each. Call 272-7857 after 5 p.m. 
NOTICES 
TONY'S SHOE SHOP:Shoe repair, shoe sales, watch bands, zippers, shoe care
Isupplies. All types of leather repair. ON CAMPUS Behind Adm Bldg. 
Will do mending: repair zip­pers, seams, tears. Also altering, hemming, etc. Call 284-4601. 
Anyone interested in an in­tercampus ping -pong call 284­4601 after 10 pm' 
Flanner's America needs solo and group musicaans, rock or folk. For coffeehouse series. Contact Mike Hess, 912 
Flanner, phone 1409. 
Students seeking info about Gay Awareness Community call 7768 Wed + Fri, 7-9pm. 
In the Old Forest, Frodo meets Bom badil and Goldberry, Merry and Pippin rescued from old Man Willow. 
LOIT AND,FOUND 
Lost: 4 mo. old black + White malamute pup. Saturday night near Keenan. Reward -232­8811. 
Lost: Girl's tortoise shell framed glassesin white case near senior bar, stadium. Help I cant see. Peggy 4628. ss. 
Found gold lapel pin with pictureof Liszt and inscriptir·.. Call Susan 6850. 
Lost ~ring .74 Wed night near Sorin Walsh or Dillon please return reward. Marty 8683 301 Stanford. 
WANTED 

Desperately need GA tix for Army, Navy games. Call 1364. 
Desperately need 4 USC tix . Will pay. Call Pat 3273. 
Need 2-4 GAtix to MSU and USC Will pay. Call Scott 1598 or 214 Grace. 
Wanted two GA USC Tix 272­0913 in evening. 
Need 2 GA tix for USC. Call Jim 234-7022' 
Desperately need 2 GA MSU tix._ Carr Mike 1820. 
Need 2 MSU tix. Call Tom 6522­437 Cav. 
Want 2 MSU tix -GA or student passes with ID's. Preferably together. Please call 1434. 
I need 2 Purdue tix. Please call Chris 1469. Thanks. 
Need 2 Purdue tix. Call Maria or Joe at 4027, 7964 or 8661. 
Need 2 MSU tix . Call Alice 4435. 
Need 2 tix USC game. Call Jeff 1132 Pay well. 
Need 4 GA tix to MSU. Call John 282-1568. 
Need tix to MSU game. Call Chris at 6586. 
Desperately need 4 GA tix to MSU game. For visiting priests. carr 232-9460' 
Need 2 GA tix for MSU. Call Susan 6850. 
Desperately need 2 GA tix to Purdue. Will pay! Call Scott 1598 or 214 Grace. 
Desperately need 3 USC tix and 6 Navy GA tix. Will Pay! Mike 1801. 
Need 2 GA Navy tix . Call John 8848 evenings. 
1 GA ticket-MSU. Call Mike 234-8810. 
Need up to 4 Purdue tix, separate or together call 8419. 
Need 1 Purdue ticket. Please call Mike 1592. 
RIDES WANTED 

Need ride for 2, west on 1-80 Fri. Sept. 28. Destination Davenport. Will Share ex­penses. Please call 5124. 
Need ride to Purdue Friday Sept. 28. Will share expenses call Rickh. 1796. 
Need ride to Mpls. Sept. 28­Nick 1670. 
Need ride to and from Pitt this weekend.. Call Joe 3462. Share \and drivino. 
PERSONAL 

Big AI , Sorry the "no write ". 
Keep on truckin. Tape en route. MR. O'Fry. 
· Happy Birthday 0' B with a handshake and a Kiss. O'D. 
Lost calculus book by Thomas and noteblok on Fre. in 317 Ad Bldg. Please return! Call Jim 1046. 
Keys found in grass between 
Badin and bookstore. Carr Ann 6916. 
Brown wallet lost at rally . 
Reward Call 3691. No questions. 
Lost Girl's Blue billfold around Ports p11rty OC. Please call Chris Muelhausen, 233-8128. Reward. 

-

Wednesday, September 26, 1973
the observer
8 




Irish jayvees down Michigan 20-3 
Soph Tony Brantley played a key role in Monday's JV win over Michigan. 
AP Ratings 

by Pete McHugh "We werestronglnside against the sophomore Tony Brantley moved rush, but the pass rush needs to be the Irish to Michigan's 12-yard Led by sophomore quartergacks improved." line. There Slager connected with Rick Slager and Fred Trosko: the freshman Dan Knott for six points. 
The game opened with Michigan 
Notre Dame Junior varsity foot­With a newbackfieldin the fourth
driving to the Irish four yard-line
ball team opened its season quarter, Notre Dame continued to
before settling for a 2o-yard field
Monday by thrashing Michigan, 20-run over Michigan. Trosko relied
goal and their only points of the
3, in Ann Arbor. on sophomre Tom Parise and
day. After an exchange of punts,
Slager, figuring in all the Irish freshman Frank Bonder and Rick
Slager moved his team into
scoring, kicked two field goals, Allocco to control the football
Wolverine territory and kicked a
passed for one touchdown, and before finding Fine in the end zone.
32-yard field goal to tie the
added two extra points. Trosko i a Murphy who played all 46 of his
score. In the second quarter,6-2 195 pound Ypsilanti, Mich., Slager put the Irish on top to stay players, assessed the offensive 
native, was impressive in each performance, "We moved the ball 
with a 36-yard kick as Notre Dame 
series he directed, accounting for pretty well on the ground. Only
took a 6-3 lead into their locker 
the final Irish score with a 20-yard around the goal line, when we ran
room. Throughout the first. half 
pass to junior end Tom Fine in the into some penalties, did we have to
Murpy substituted freely with 
fourth quarter. pass the ball in."
Trosko and freshman quarterback
While the offense performed Roy Henry also seeing action. Along with Trosko's showing,admirably, Coach Denny Murphy 
Murphy was particularly im­
praised his defense which "bent Notre Dame's ground attack pressed by split-end Kevin but didn't break" with four fumble began to open up in the third Doherty's "catching the ball and recoveries and a pass interception quarter ·with a bevy of runners getting extra yardage after his to stifle Wolverine drives. He left seeing action. Runs by Freshman catches." He chose to reserve 
room for improvement, however, Jim Weiler, Junior Tom Bake, and 
judgement on the offensive lineVic Dorrt,:,:'='='='='=:='='::::::::::::::::::::::;;:::::::::::::::::,:,:,:,:,:,:,:,:,:,::::::::::=:=:=:=:=:=:::=:=:=:::::::::::::::,:·:::, until viewing game films, but 
admitted, "someone must have been doing a good job." In regard to a player's varsity atanding being affected by JV action, he

The Irish Eye 
said simply, "Good performances are rewarded." The JV Irish meet Michigan again Monday October 1 at 12:30 p.m. at Cartier Field. Murphy's charges will no doubt be 

Not too long ago, whenever the third or fourth weekend of Sep­anticipating some rewards. 
r\ 
I:
. I ~ j
') 
r') 
n 
r~ 
saw that comment reprinted throughout South Bend prior to the 1970 Brothers" is a defense whose time send you practically the same team again, behind Ellis instead of has come. For the past few years, questionnaire again and request Crotty. "Each one of those three
encounter. 

That year, Notre Dame did hit hard. Hard enough to score 48 points the personality of the Irish defense some films," Rudnick remembers. backs had their own specialty, so themselves and allow the visiting Boilers none. Last year, it was more has b~n dominated by Walt "But there were two other guys on there were a lot of things to pick of the same. The Irish, after dismantling Northwestern, hosted Patulsk1, Clarence Ellis and Eric our team everybody was looking at up," says Rudnick. 
Purdue and won handily, 35-14. 
Patton, ~e class of '72 and Greg (including Irish teammate Gary "You learned how to play all 
But in between those two runaways came the now-famous "rain Marx, J1m Musuraca and Jim Potempa), and I was sort of left three positions instead of one. game" in 1971. The Irish, fresh from a 50-7 thrashing of Alex Agase's O'Malley, the class of '73. out. I was only 5-9 and 160 pounds Clarence was the fastest--you Wildcats, journeyed to Purdue's Ross-Ade Stadium as the number-two We have played with some of the at the time, and not many teams could have him beaten by three or team in the nation, and were treated with anything but respect. The best players to come out of Notre need players that size. four yards, but he had the ability to Boilers scored midway through the second period, and clung to their Dame," says senior defensive "I wanted to come to Notre recover and either take the ball 7-0~ead until just under three minutes remained in the fourth period. back Tim Rudnick. "But now Dame, but I came here on a away from you or take your head 
But at that point in time, even though rain continued to pour from ~ho~e older players are gone and chance. I only had enough money off. Mike was the real hitter; he the leaden skies above West Lafayette, fortune smiled on the grimy, 
Its time for the younger brothers to for one year, but I figured I had wasn't very big, but when he hit muddy Notre Dame defense. Purdue's punter fumbled a pass from 
take over." nothing to lose and everything to somebody, they were looking for center on his own goal line, and the Irish rush swarmed in and covered By younger brothers, Rudnick gain. Even if I didn't make it, I him. But Ralph was probably the the ball for ND's only six-pointer of the afternoon. 
doesn't mean the defense is still would have been at a good best all-around back of the three. inexperienced. The defensive line school and might have earned He could do more things well thanThen, moments later, tight end Mike Creaney slipped unmolested may be a little young with some other scholarship." By the anyone."
into the end zone, turned, and caught a two-point conversion pass to S?phomores Steve Niehaus and time. he reported in the ~This year, the other defensiveinsure a victory that -.. nothing short of miraculous. 
J1m Stock and even a freshman, Rudmck had filled out to a cks are waiting, but perhaps aThere were no frowns et1 Cartier Field during Monday's practice. 
~oss Browner, but generally, the r.~pectable 5-10 and 175. He a ittle more impatiently. Fresh-There were no grumbles and there was no rain. But the Irish coach, time has come for new stars. to fm1she<! among the top runners in man Luther Bradley has alreadyafte~ a brief awards ceremony-senior linebacker Gary Potempa emerge. One of them could be team time trials and started to nudged Mike Parker, joiningreceived the Northwestern game ball, and juniors Tom Clements and 
Rudnick. catch the coaches' eyes. Rudnick, Mike Townsend andMike Fanning were named offensive and defensive playersof theweek­
The only thing we need right now "I worked hard that summer to Reggie Barnett.
·looked away from Northwestern and towards Purdue. 
is to get some of the younger be one of the fastest qualifiers," "Everyone's being pushed a"We're a good football team," Parseghian told his assembled team players a couple games under their says Tim. "As soon as I saw the little bit this year," Rudnick ad­prior to Monday's workout, "but we can't afford the aluxury of belts,'' says Rudnick. "We've guys I was with, I knew they mits, "and nobody's resting ondwelling on one victory too long. We can't savor it. When we play been playing against kids on our weren't that much bigger. If you being a senior or his experience.
Purdue on Saturday, we'll be playing an opponent who'll be all the own block in scrimmages. Now run fast, do the basics well, block Experience counts, but ifmore dangerous because he's been hurt (the Boilermakers were upset we're ready to take on the next and tackle well, someone's going to somebody has more talent he'sby Miami of Ohio Saturday, 24-19). 
block." notice you. I felt I would play all going to be in there. The people on"They'll be licking their wounds, and they'lHight us like a wounded 
Rudnick proved what he could do along, but you have to have that our second team aren't thereanimal someone has cornered. We have a long rivalry with Purdue," against the kids on the next block feeling. inside you." because they're not doing well. I'dhe continued. "In 1971, we finally broke the jinx down there, but we as a junior, breaking in as the By h1s freshman spring, after a say we have eight or nine guyswon by the overwhelming score of 8-7." 
swing defensive back in third down ~rief tryout in the offensive back-right now who could play."
Part of Purdue's incentive on Saturday-beyond Notre Dame's three and passing situations and finally field, Rudnick was listed on the But Rudnick, despite theconsecutive victories-will c&me from the fact that Alex Agase is now moving in as a regular when the second team behind Crotty. And challenge, will play, and he knows the Boilermakers' head coach. Agase never defeated Notre Dame Irish decided to stick with a four-when Crotty was injured, he had what the tradition of Notre Damewhile he was calling the shots for Northwestern's Wildcats, and he'd 
deep defense. the opportunity to work, if only defense is, younger brother or not.
relish the opportunity to tum things around now that he's in Lafayette. 
briefly, with Ellis and Ralph "Like younger brothers we want
But Parseghian is more thanwary,bf his old coaching comrade. "We Like many of his teammates, he 
Stepaniak. to please those older pl~yers and
won't let our victory of Purdue's loss influence our mental preparation was a younger brother his first two "I knew Mike would be back in the fans. People who follow Notrefor the game this week,'' he said. "I've known Alex long enough to years to both Clarence Ellis and there when he recovered from the Dame football are used to seeing aknow that he'll have his team well prepared." Mike Crotty. But even being a injury,'' Tim says, "but I wanted lot of points on our side of theBut the Irish-both players and fans-would do well to be wary of younger brother wasn't a bad to pro.ve I was good enough, if not scoreboard, but they like to seemore than Alex Agase. They'd do well to be wary of playing Purdue in position to be in considering he was experienced, enough, to play. I that big zero on the other side ofWest Lafayette. The lessons of past years are reason enough, but this a walk-on from Notre Dame of ~new those three would graduate the board. It's been there before,year there is added reason. There'll be a capacity crowd (including Niles High,School ·near Chicago. 
m another 'jear and that I'd have and now it's our tum to see that itPurdue grad Chris Schenkel) in Ross-Ade Stadium, and a nationwide "I went through the whole my chance to play." stays there."
TV audience looking on. recruiting thing; you fill out a lot of _Rudnick won ~e Herring Award At Notre Dame, even younger
It would be a terrible time for a letdown. questionnaires, and if the colleges and a scholarship that spring, but brothers grow up quickly. 

~I 
f ' 
~ 
L 
~ 
I; 
< 
~; 
" 
L 
tember rolled around, Notre Dame football fans would stop smiling, start grumbling, and begin praying. "We're Number One" buttons would vanish like rose blossoms after a spring frost. Talk of National Championships would subside. Gloom would be the order of the day. 
The symptoms were annual, and the diagnosis was simple: Purdue Week Depression. For three years, from 1967 through 1969, Ara Parseghian and his Irish legions ran up against the Boilermakers after impressive opening-day victories. And for three years, Notre Dame's hopes for undefeated seasons were crushed after the third or fourth weekend in September. 
And every year, the villains seemed the same: coach Jack Mollenkopf, quarterback Mike Phipps, and running back Leroy Keyes. For three years, that trio~r members of that trio-took on the Irish with pride and arrogance. And for three years, they won. In 1967, it was 28-21. In 1968, 37-22, and in 1969, it was never a contest: 28­14. 
But the names changed in 1970 and, pleasantly for Parseghian's Irish, so did the results. A Boilermaker linebacker, one Veno Paraskavas, observed after the '69 game,"no, Notre Dame didn't hit hard," and first-year coach Bob DeMoss probably winced when he 


OBSERVER 
SPORTS 
IYoungl defenders age quickly 
For Notre Dame, the "Younger like what they read and see, they the fall found him on the second 
'\'1 , 
The Top Tw·enty wtlh llrsl·ptace \"Qtes io part'nltk.'S('S. season rrcords and total pomts Pomts tabulated nn basts.or :!6-1H6-H-1!-11J.9-il-o·6·5--1-:l-!-t 

1st 10 2nd 10 

1 So. Caltforma (31•1 11. .\ubum !. :\ebraoJ<a (1!) 1~ Oklahnma State 
3. Ohto State (h) 13 \mona State 4 \hch1g•n (II 
1-4 Tt•X;,t~ ;; .\1abama (II \;) ltuU!»IOn 6 Penn State (!) 16 Flnnd:. ; \otn• Oanw to l"CL \ ti Oklahoma (1) 1M ~ham1. fla 9 Tennesse 
19. :\o Carolina St 10 Lou1s1ana State :.'0 \hssHun 





