


p 2 the observer Friday, December 7, 1973 
yet in his mind, he had acted 
incident 

fiction for the season by dennis mcintire 
Nr. Hutchins hurried through the revolving door and out into the bustle and noise of tl"le city street. The pedestrian traffic was brisk, many were shoppers scurrying about with packages. The air was cold but it felt good. 
"Give to the Salvation Army sir?" said a short, tired looking . \M)man. She was wearing the uniform blue coat and hat and standing beside a money cauldron suspended from the point of three poles. He shook his head and walked out to the curb. It was 
4:30 and Mr. Hutchins was pleased that he had been able to leave the office early. The cars raced by him and he looked for an empty cab approaching in a close lane. There was no one else along the block waiting for a taxi and this added to his feeling of well­being. 
The wind picked up suddenly and Nr. Hutchins began to button his top coat. Out of the corner of his eye he noticed a small piece of paper 'lhlirling towards him on the edge of the sidewalk. He instinctively snatched it up as it glided past his feet. In a split second he knew it was money. He straightened out the paper and looked with unmasked delight at a ten-dollar bill. It was 'Nrinkled and mrn but nothing looked sweeter to him at that moment. He glanced quick! y at the pavement again as if he expected to see more bills rolling towards him. 

His next reaction was to look around for the o\Mler. Checking his elation, he held the bill con­spiculously in his hand and sur­veyed the pedestrians passing by. At any moment someone muld surely come running up to him and claim it, explaining how it had slipped away or been drop­.ped. Yet as he waited no such 
person appeared. The people 
passed by, taking no notice of 
him. He looked further up the 
street for a long interval, 
careful Iy scanning the crooo for a 
man searching through his 
pockets or a V'vOman rummaging 
in her purse, anyone 'htlo ap­
peared to have lost something. 
Nobody in this situation could be 
seen. 

His duty done, Nr. Hutchins 
allo\Yed the iubiliation of knowing 
that the ten dollars was his to 
S'Neep over him. He smiled 
open I y and savoured the in­
credibility of his tinct After 
staring at it for a couple of 
seconds he slipped the bill into his 
wallet. Never before had a lucky 
day presented itself to him in so 
obvious a manner. Thinking of all 
that had happened he could not 
suppress another smile. 
The ringing of a bell attracted 
his attention. He turned and 
glanced toward where the 
Salvation Army lady was stan­
ding. She was looking his way and 
had no doubt seen him find the 
money. This had a strangely 
unsettling effect on Nr. Hutchins, 
properly. All honest and sincere 
effort had been made to find the 
o\Mler, there was no reason to feel 
guilty. Yet the feeling was there 
and he felt compelled to act on it. 
Hesitating briefly, he walked 
over to Vv'here she was standing 
and pulled out his wallet. 
"I found\ this blowing do\Ml the 
sidewalk just now," he said, 
dropping a dollar through the 
cauldron grating. 
"Thank you sir." The mman's 
face was a blank. She continued 
to swing the bell. 
No sooner had the mrds lett his 
mouth than his turmoil deepened . 
In an instant it flashed upon 1\!r". 
Hutchins that she didn't believe 
him. His attempt at deceit was petty and stupid. He felt acutely embarassed. In his shame he ·didn't know 'Nhat had prompted him to go back. especially after 
walking by with no qualms the 
first time. Thinking of this, it 
suddenly occured to him that he 
had been right all along. No one 
could have found fauft with his 
actions. This absurd incident had 
ruined a good thing. 
His discomfiture turned to 
resentment and anger. It was 
idiotic that a man like him Should 
be co'JIIed by a ridiculous-looking 
old 'M)man. Snatching another 
dollar bill from his wallet he 
stuffed it through the grating. 
Paying no heed to the V\Qman he 
buttoned his coat with care and 
strode calmly back to the curb, 
where he was just in time to hail 
down a cab. 
"VVhere to?" asked the driver, 
as they vvere pulling away. 
"Jefferson Plaza," he replied 
curly. Nr. Hutchins was in no 
mood for talking, but stared 
moodily out the window at the 
people on the street. 
entertainment value 
See a movie at our low every-day prices and 
after the show visit one of our special at­
tractions ... 
... the Feedbag for a snack or sandwich, or 
... the Icehouse for a full meal with cocktails, or 
...one of the 25 special shops located in the 100 Center 
Complex. 

A Quiet Night Concert STARRING Dave Grey S. Randall Sarton Jon Terlep with Jerry Beckles 
A NIGHT OF ACOUSTIC MUSIC MON. DEC. 10 9:30pm Washington Hall FREE 
courtesy of student government 
D
he Observer is published daily during the college semester except acations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and st. 
Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for sa per semester $1-4 per year) from the Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana o46556. econd class cost age paid. Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
2•· .. ~ '·· .. ' 



Energy crisis, airline strike 
Students face travel problems 
by David Kaminski Staff Reporter 

In two weeks, Notre Dame will complete its first semester and students will be leaving for Christmas vacation. The normal holiday rush should encourage every student to make early plans for transportation home. However, this season the energy crisis will affect many travel plans, either in going home in December or returning to Notre Dame in January. 
Here is a review of the current transportation situation, as well as a prediction of what changes one might expect in the coming weeks. 
The Notre Dame -A-~~~~ureau reports that all flights leaving South Bend on Dec. 20,21. and 22 are completely filled. There is limited space left on flights leaving South Bend on Dec. 19 and after Dec. 22. Students can still reserve flight leaving from O'Hare Airport in Chicago. 
The Travel Bureau also reports a problem in making reservations from Chicago to the west coast, due mainly to the transport workers' strike of Trans World Airlines. Planes to Los Angeles and San Francisco are especially difficult to get at this time. 
In addition to the normal crowding on airlines during the holiday season, the student travelling to and from home by air has another problem to worry about. Due 
THE OIJSERVER 
to the fuel shortage, airlines have already c:Uacon­tinued some fliJdlts in December. The allocation of jet fuel will be redetermined in January. If the ration of fuel to the airlines is further cut, more flights will be discontinued. Some students holding round trip tickets back to South Bend might find their flight discon­tinued on the first of the month. 
United Air Lines could not predict which flights might be discontinued in January. They suggest, however, that all students holding return tickets to South Bend check with their airlines early in January to confirm their reservations. Anyone holding a ticket on a discontinued flight will most likely be placed on the next available flight, but it would be wise not to wait too long in January to see if your flight plans will be changed. 
Trains 
The story on trains is very simple. They're all 
completely booked. The holiday rush and .. the cur­
tailment of some air service have caused train 
reservations to fill for the next coming weeks. 
Amtrak reports that all trains leaving Chicago from 
Dec. 18 to Jan. 4 are completely filled. In addition, 
Amtrak's waiting lists for possible cancellations of 
reservations are already so long that they are no 
longer accepting names. However, students might 
still arrange train transportation to Chicago in 
January. DriviDg Home 
Of course, many students will be driving home for Christmas. Everyone must be aware by now that some states have reduced their speed limits by law, others recommend a slower speed to conserve gasoline, and many service stations are voluntarily closing on weekends. 
The Chicago Motor Club and the Indiana State Police have contributed the following list of states that now enforce a 50 mph. speed limit for passenger cars: 
Iowa 
Maine 
Maryland 
Massachusetts 
New Jersey 
New York 
North Carolina 
Pennsylvania 
Rhode Island 
Texas (55 mph) 
Vermont 
Washington 
The Chicago Motor Club reports that Colorado, Connecticut, Montana, and Oklahoma are now con­sidering a change in speed limit. It's likely that these states will change to a 50 mph. speed limit in the .near fUture. 
Neither the motor club nor the Indiana State Police could speculate on the possibilities of fuel shortages in the nextseveral weeks. However, here is a list of some states whose gasoline stations along major highways closed last weekend from 9p.m. Saturday to midnight 
I 
1 
1 
1 
Sunday:

Goin' Home Illinois-along the tollway and the expressways. An emergencyservice will provide a stranded auto with two gallons of gasoline.
Friday, December 7, 1973 Page 3 Indiana-Stations along the toll road also closed during the recommended hours. However, Standard stations reportedly stayed open untilll p.m. Saturday. Cars stranded along the toll road on the weekend will also be supplied with two gallons of gasoline. Bicycle storage available 
Ohio-Arco and Gulf stations are presently staying open on weekends. All other stations were closing during the recommended hours.
by Joe LaFlare Pears emphasized the point that if one chooses to New York-Stations reported closed along tollways Staff Reporter 

store his or her bicycle for the winter, it will be kept and thruways during the weekend, there until the weather improves, probably sometime Pennsylvania-Stations reported closed along
The Security Department announced yesterday that in April. "It will not be an in-and-out type of system " turnpike and thruways during the weekend.
they will be offering a bicycle storage for the winter. 
said Pears. ' Florida-The state has completely banned the sale ofAll bicycles will be safely secured in a cyclone fence Since this will be the last edition of Tbe Observer for gasoline on the weekend along Florida interstates andwith barbed wire over the top. According to Director the semester, students should listen to WSND for parkways. Other stations in the state may closeArthur Pears, "We would like the bicycles to be off the 
further details. According to Chris Singleton, director voluntarily.
sidewalks so the plows can get through quicker, away of bicycle storage, "We will probably begin sometime The Congress of the United States is now working onfrom the trees, and also in a semi-safe area." 
early next week." Pears and Singleton expressed bills which would make reduced speeds and gasolineThe bicycles will be stored in the stadiunt thanks to Robert Cahill, business director of athletics station closing on weekends mandatory.
somewhere between Gate 7 and Gate 10. The Security for his cooperation in this matter. ' The office of Congressman John Brademas reportsDepartment is asking for the students' cooperation in Pears also announced that the Security Department that the House of Representatives passed the High­this matter. He set up the following guidelines: will allow any student leaving his car over the break to way Speed Limit Act on Monday, Dec. 3, and sent it on1) Any student who has a registered bicycle will park it in Parking Lot D-1, starting December 14. This to the Senate for consideration. This bill limits all. obtain free storage. 
applies to cars which have decals for other lots only. highwayspeedsin the United States to 55 mph.
2) If a student does not have a registered bicycle, he The congressman's staff could not guess if themay register it with Security for a fee of $1.00 and this Senate would likewise pass the bill ·before theirwill entitle him or her to free storage. 
Christmas recess. :However, quick action is expected 3) All other bicycles will be charged a fee of $1.00 for 

Ford S'Worn in as 
and students driving back to Notre Dame in the middle the storage. 

of January might expect to make the trip under new

• •d 
mandatory speed limits. 

• Legislation designed to ban the sale of gasoline on
40thVlce presl entweekends is still in a House committee, with no sign of 
when it might go to the floor of the House for a vote. 
Drive-A ways 


of United States 
Some students may drive home for vacation with a By GENE BERNHARDT support and loyalty." car from a drive-away agency. The Wilson Drive­
WASHINGTON <UPI>--The former House Away agency in Chicago has a Notre Dame Gerald Rudolph Ford was Republican leader placed his representative arranging for students to drive cars sworn in as 40th vide hand on a Bible owned by his from Chicago to destinations across the country. president of the United States son Michael, a seminary A student must be 18 years of age to contract to drive Thursday by Chief Justice student, and held by his wife for a drive-away agency, according to Interstate Warren Burger in historic Betty. Commerce Commission regulations. Usually the cars 
-~·-~·-"':, ;· ceremonies in the House of In addition to the available are late models in higher price range. Many1'be Third Team > . .,,, Representatives. President, the Cabinet, the Oldsmobiles, Cadillacs, and Lincoins are available. A ~.Editor: Joe Abell > '·· The simple but dramatic diplomatic corps and the student has to pay an $80 deposit and gasoline ex­Assistald, l!llght Editor: Celeste Pootert event, the first in the nation's Supreme Court witnessed the penses. The $80 is refunded when the student delivers Layout and Special Help: Maria Gallagher, BIU Brink, AI history where Congress swearing-in which was the car. 
Rutherford, Vic Oorr, Greg Corgan, Dan Sanchez confirmed a vice president, conducted before a joint At this time of year, there are many cars available Copyrudtn: Gr~ Rowinski and Pattie Cooney was televised live nationally meeting of Congress. to drive to Florida and western states. Wilson's has 
Pictures: Jerome PhTIIIps and attended by President For repeated the identical cars available to as far away as Salt Lake City,Typists:-Tot~-Modg11n, Mike Seidel, Mary ROIMr Nixon and other dignitaries. oath he had taken 13 times Tucson, or Los Angeles. However, there are very few Hal Opera1or: Bob Steinmetz It came within an hour previously as a member of cars available to drive to eastern states like New York. Night Contmller: Howard Halle after the House voted to Congress. Once a student delivers a car, he has a possibility of 
confirm one of its own for the Ford also spoke directly to arranging a return trip to Chicago with another car in nation's second highest of-Speaker Carl Albert, to January. However, this round trip is not guaranteed. fice. Burger, to his wife and thenToday's issue of The The swearing-in filled the to his colleagues in deep Busses vacancy in the vice sentimental temts and saidObserver is the last until presidency created when "at this moment of visible Greyhound bus lines report no slowdown in service Spiro T. Agnew resigned Oct. and living unity I see only due to restricted speed limits. However, they hint that
January 17, 1974. Merry 
10 after pleading no contest Americans." they will have to revise their schedule in the event of a 
Christmas and Happy to one count of tax evasion. "I like what I see. I am not mandatory reduction of speed limits in the United "I am deeply grateful to discouraged. I am indeed States.
New Year (and Sugar you Mr. President, for the humble to be the 40th vice The fuel shortage is so far not affecting Greyhound trust and confidence your president of the United States service either. Greyhounds are fueled by diesel fuel atBowl celebrations!). nomination implied," Ford but I am proud, very proud, Greyhound-owned depots, and so gasoline station said in a brief acceptance to be one of 200 million closings on weekends will not restrict Greyhound 
IHJJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIItiiiiiiiiiHIIIIHHII speech. "You have my An1ericans," Ford said. service. 





lll..ll~ij~llllll~t~hlall~~hlciAirlvlolrllllllll~c~~;~~·s·l·l~~rlftl-~~~~~~~7 ~~11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111..11.
10~ 
4 the observer Friday, December 7, 1973 
warld briefs 
NEW YORK <UPI>-New York City and the state of Connecticut announced they were cutting weekend subway, bus, and train fares in half in the New York area to help cut down automobile use. 
NEW YORK <UPI>--Stock prices, which have dropped sharply in the past five weeks, rallied strongly Thursday on indications of some progress in the Middle East peace talks. 
The Dow Jones industrial average, the widely followed market indicator which plunged nearly 200 points in the past five weeks, gained more than 25 points in heavy trading, closing at 814.12 for the second best gain of the year. 
WASHINGTON (UPI)-Top presidential aide Alexander M. Haig testified Thursday there has been talk in the Whit~ House that perhaps some unidentified "sinister force" mysteriously erased one of President Nixon's Watergate tapes. . . 
Haig, who succeeded H. R. Haldeman as White House chief of staff last spring, also said the disclo.s~~e that two o!her tapes had never existed was "fairly traumatic for the White House and widely misunderstood by the public. 

friday, dec. 7 3:25pm lecture --"the evolution of an industrial water pollution control program at PPG industries, "by mr. anthony ziehler, room 205, eng. bldg. 
3:30 pm perspective series--"metaphysical arguments," by
stephen korner, library aud. 7 pm dinner--madrigal dinner, regina north, advanced registration. 7 and 10 pm--film--"lady sings the blues,' engineering aud. $1.00 
7:30 concert--david basch, horn; patrick maloney, tenor; william 
cerny, piano; library aud. 8 pm bridge --duplicate bridge, university club, everyone welcome 
7:30 pm concert--flanner's america, free. 
8:30 pm play--"thieves' carnival," washington $1.50, student, faculty, and staff $2.00 gen ad. 
saturday, dec. 8 
9:30am workshop--"reallty therapy and discipline," sponsored by the education dept., carrot hall. registration fee $10. 2 pm tea--delta ka; ;a gamma christmas tea,· stapleton lounge. 2 pm swim meet--western ontario u., rockne memorial. 2 pm basketball--st. louis, ace arena 7 and 9 pm film--"the great race," little theater, $1. 
8:30 pm party--students' annual "finals fling," featuring wind­jammer, southbencl armory, $2.50 per person. 8:30pm -PiaY--"thieves carnival," washington hall $1.50, 2.00 gen
ad. 
sunday I dec. 9 
1 and 7 pm show--st. nicholas day show and sale, little theater 
gallery. 2 pm meeting--science fiction association, 2-a Iafortune 
3:45 pm concert--notre dame choral ensembles music of advent 
and christmas, sacred heart chrch. 7 and 9 pm film--cartoons, eng. aud. 8 pm concert--annual christmas concert, church of loretto. free. monday, dec. 10 4,7,10, and 12 pm film--"macbeth," eng. aud. friday ,dec. 14 
8: 15 pm concert--orchestra and symphonette, washington hall. free. 



MUSIC 
FROM AMERICA COFFEEHOUSE FREE FOLK CONCERT 

FRIDAY 7:30-? 
CHRIS MANION 

JUDY JOYER BART POLLOCK & JIM GRESSER 
BUCK & JOHN KEVIN COCKRELL & PAT KRONENWETTER 
Perhaps the greatest collection of folk talent ever to appear in America. catE!d in the .basement ofF.LANNER HAL 
.'. 
1:00am to?? guitar or welcome to until all hours I 
FREE COFFEE & TEA 

Mulcahy urges OC consideration 
by Butch Ward September," said Mulcahy.
Editorial Editor "Therefore, it would be helpful for 
all to know early those students 

Expressing concern that the on­who intend to live off campus in the 
campus overcrowding situation fall." 
will not be much improved over Associate Vice President Father 
that which existed last spring, James Flanigan also announced 
Father John Mulcahy, Director of that applications for resident 
Housing, urged students con­assistant positions will be 
sidering a September move off­available in the Student Mfairs 
campus to consult with their 
parents over break. 
According to Mulcahy, students will be asked to notify the Housing Office of their intent following their return in January. . 
"We find nothing to indicate that 
the overcrowding situation for 
upperclassmen will be appreciably 
better than what it was this past 
Can you decorate it? 
®PIONEER..

A Christmas tree isn't always what you might think. 
Representatives will be demonstrating
Webster's New Collegiate Dictionary 0973) defines it, in 
4 Channel stereo and other Quad 

addition to the tradition sense, as 
recording techniques."an oil-well device consisting of an assembly of fittings placed at the 
TIMES: 1,3,5 & 7 pm ~Jm~(i)
top of the well" and as "a set of flashing red, yellow and green 
DAY: Friday, Dec. 7 ~~~,~· sH:~:orv

lights used to start drag races." 

HOW ARE THINGS AT HOME? 


Long distance still is the next best thing to being there. And you can save money by calling nights or weekends. 


@Indiana Bell 

Office at the start of the second 
semester. 

Father Flanigan added that students who notify his office of their location during break can receive the applications through the mail. He added that the required interviews will begin following the start of the next semester. 

the observer 
5 
I 1111AllIll~ 


Reflecting social changes 



ND offers women I s courses 
by Judy Rauenhorst Staff Reporter 
One of the social .changes that has filtered into everyday life in the 70's has been a new consciousness among women. These effects are visible on college campuses. Women-oriented conferences, courses and special programs are already filling the agenda for 1974. 
Within the Notre Dame-St. Mary's community, many women's programs and courses already exist -or are being planned for the near future. There are three areas in which women have been emphasized; within the curriculum, through continuing education programs and 're-i!ntry' programs. 
Curriculum 

Women's courses are being taught on Notre Dame's campus in four departments this semester. One such course, "Images of Woman," is team taught by Professors Elizabeth Fiorenza and Mary Lynn Broe and is cross-listed by the Theology Department and General Program. It focuses on literary and theological viewpoints about women. 
"Women and American History" is a course introduced by Professor Carol Moore through the History 
Department. This course "in­vestigates the social ·role and public image of women in different periods of American history, studying both the variety and continuity of women's historical experience." 
A special directed readings class, "Images of Woman in America," taught by Professor Madonna Kolbenschlag, "centers on a study of th~ female stereotype in American public mythology and communications media." 
The American Studies 
Newsletter reported that 
"Enrollment of men and women in 
the course was relatively 50-50, a 
very desirable quorum. The 
University women who have 
pioneered in the current offerings 
would like to see an expanded 
cluster of Women's Studies courses, 
Want to do something 
worthwhile for yourself? 
If you have at least two years left at Notre Dame you should investigate the Army ROTC Program on campus. 
There are openings for enlisted veterans who have the additional opportunity to apply for a one year full tuition scholarship. Veterans may opt for either a 3 month or a 2 year active duty commitment after commissioning. · 
Non-veterans interested in earning an officer's commission should inquire about the Two-Year Program. Individuals in this program are eligible for two and for one-year scholarships. 
If you desire further information, visit the Army ROTC office on campus or call 6264. 
Shakespeare Film Series presents Hugh Hefner's production of 





MACBETH 
directed by ROMAN POLANSKI 
4pm, 

Monday, 7pm, 
December 
lOpm, 

10 
12pm 


Special Midnite Showing! ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM 
a slate of various electives cross­listed by departments and available to students at lar~e." 
For the coming semester, three special courses on women are scheduled. American Studies is offering 'Women's Studies: The American Family'. This course is described as 'focusing on the peculiar configuration of the American family, as conditioned by sexual roles and stereotypes, and will be taught by Kolben­schlag. Professor Moor's course, 'Women and American History' will be continued this semester. The Theology Department has added, 'Women in Ministry'. To be instructed by Professor LaPorte, this course will deal with status and ministry in the early Church as it applies to women. It is also a rare , instance where a man is 
teaching a course on women. 
At St. Mary's, special women's courses do exist, but they are not isolated. Mrs. Gail Mandell, Assistant to the Vice President for Academic Affairs, explained the goals of St. Mary's curriculum. 
•(continued on page 7) 

THRIFT AND GIFT SHOP 2502 MILBURN 
(BET. LOGAN AND 
IRONWOOD) 
FURNITURE...t 
CHINA tiLASS 
ANTIQUE~ XMAS 
DECORAT10'NS TOYS AND DOLLS AND MUCH MISC. 

' 
9 











On Columbia and Epic Records~ ~and Tapes 
All these plus the entire Columbia/Epic Records catalog at special gift-giving prices. 
the observer Friday, December 7, 1973 
~------~~~~----------~ 

Will the Sugar Bowl game be blacked out in the New Orleans area? 
The consensus is no: the game will not be blacked out. However, a representative of WSJV, the local ABC affili~te, stated that the ultimate decision is up to the network. If you des1re a more definite answer, you can call AB~ Sports in New York at the following number 212-581-7777 or wnte to the ABC _Network at 1330 Ave. of the Americas; New York, New York 10019 m care of Roone Arledge. 
When will room assignment be made for those going on the Notre Dame Football Special? · 
Hotel room assignments in New Orleans f?r those signed up f?r ~e NO Football Special will occur at a meeting of the group wh1ch IS scheduled for Monday, December 10 at 7 p.m. in ~e Fiesta J:ounge. If one cannot make it, it would be wise to get m touch w1th Pete Bohlander at either ']757 or 289-9528 before Monday. 
Where can bicycling Domers store their bikes during the hard upcoming months of winter? 
There's a good possibility that bike storage in the stadium ~ill ~oon be offered to students with registered bikes. If your b1ke 1sn't already registered, it's still not too late to do so, for a small fee, of course! Flyers w1th more specific informatior will be posted next week. 

Campus Briefs 




Ma Bell hikes rates 
Indiana Bell has increased the cost of individual student phone service from $4.50 per month to $5.75 according to Fr. Jerome J. Wilson, vice-president for business affairs. The new rates, effective October 1, this year, came as part of a general raise in rates. 
The rate hike means that an extra charge of $4.50 will be levied against all students in the second semester university bill. Rates next year will be $6 higher. 
The new Indiana Bell rates would charge the university an additional $35,000 a year for student phone service. The university itself cannot absorb the 28 per cent increase. 
"We feel we cannot absorb it so rates next year will be $6 higher," Fr. Wilson explained. "We would add an additional charge of $4.50 for the present year from October 1 to the end of the year," he added. 
Fr. Wilson emphasized that the university makes no profit on the student phone charge. The student phone fee is based on the new charge the phone company levies 
upon the university.  
•FiftyI tra1n The Student Union nounced that 50 extra  t • lX has seats  an-are  

now available on the student train trip to the Sugar Bowl. Students on the waiting list for the trip will be contacted by in the order 
of sign-up. 
All students making the trip 
must meet Monday night at 7p. m. 
in Fiesta Lounge of LaFortune. At 
the organizational meeting room 
assignments will be discussed. 
The balance of the $130 payment 
for the trip is due at this meeting. 
Yuletide music 
A program of Christmas music by the University of Notre Dame Orchestra will be directed by Dr. Charles A. Biondo at 8:15 p.m., Friday, December 14, in Washington Hall. The program is oren to the public without charge. 

Choral Concert 
Notre Dame's Department of Music will participate in a Christmas Choral Concert at 3:45 
p.m. Sunday ( Dec. 9) in Sacred Heart Church. The public is in­vited and early seating is advised. 

CILA envelopes 
CILA reported to The Observer 
yesterday that they made an error in the envelope size for one of their Christmas cards. Those wishing to exchange envelopes for the number 1 card <by Fr. Beichner) may do so at the Campus Ministry office in the Library. 
NEW  Wvn.Lu  ~~iP.r.ftii!iiijir.r-n.vuv'-' 1vN;,  r-n.c;,cNT  IN  
CONCERT  
from Canada  


LIGHTHOUSE 
and from the Motor City 
CATFISH HODGE 
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 14, 8:00pm 
SHADOWLAND BALLROOM. ST. JOSEPH, MICHIGAN 
(North on US 31 past Niles, towards Benton Harbor) 
Tickets: $4.00 (advanc.e), $4.50 (at the door). For advance tickets or further information, call Laurie at 
1705. 
For sophomore festival 
Literary figures scheduled 
by Fred Graver Staff Reporter 

The 1974 Notre Dame Sophomore 
Literary Festival will be held from Feb. 1Q-16. Featured authors are Joyce Carol Oates, Isaac Bashevis Singer, Jason Miller, Michael McClure, Bruce Jay Friedman, Robert Creeley, and Samuel Hazo. .Stephen Spender and John Hollander will begin the festival 
with il tribute to W.H. Auden. 

James Baldwin, origianlly 
scheduled for the festival, had to 
cancel his plans due to illness. He 
will appear on campus sometime 
in March. ' 

The festival will consist of lec­
tures, readings, informal meetings 
with students, classroom 
:Jlmerica' movies 

Flanner's "America" Cof­feehouse ends this semester's series of movies and concerts. tonight with a free folk music extravaganza beginning at 7:30 p.m. 

·RESEARCH 
$2 PER PAGE 
FREE CATALOG 

Our up-to-date mail-order catalog list­in& thousand!\ of topics is anilable absolutely frtt-we'll even PlY the postage! Delivery takH 1 to 2 days. Write 
NAT'L RESEARCH BANK 
420 llo. PIIM Dr., 8ft. Hilla, Cal. 90210 TELEPHOHE: (213) 271-5439 Material ia sold for research ,.,_only. 
plnnnin~ n "t'fldinf('! , eall JlM' 234-5822 \\t'tkhn~ Phnh...tmpht.,. 
234-5822 MCHAEl LONER 
-~~~~ 

discussions and workshops. Each 
Friedman is planning a seminar on 

of the authors was challenged to 
problems in multi-media ex­

make a presentation on whatever 
pression. Spender and Hollander

topic interested them. 
are working on the tribute to 

Joyce Carol Oates has expressed 
Auden. 

interest in exploring areas of 
The planning committee for the 

humanistic psychology. Bruce Jay 
festival is headed by Gary Zebrun. 
SMC Seniors present 

The Great Race 
!Saturday I December 8 I 7:00 and 10:00 Little Theater admission: $1.00 
AKRON UNIVERSITY 
School of Law 
ON CAMPUS DEC. 7 
to interview students 

OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY 

College of Law 

ON CAMPUS WED. DEC. 12 to interview students 
See Pre-Law Society Bulletin Board outside r m 70 1 O'Shog to sign up 
~ampqs 
~lassies 
HAGGAR SLACKS 
hey've got it all... going for you. The 
inest, care-free double knit fabrics, he greatest styling (with or without uffs), the smoothest fit, impeccable a i loring wtth great attention to 
etail...a II this in a sensationa I election of patterns and colorings. ry on a pair...soon••.here. 
from $14 

ON THE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAME 
I I 


I 

Friday, December 7, 1973 the observer 7 
SUNDAY MASSES
Women's courses defined 
(continued from page 5) 
Mandell said, 'The philosophy of the College is to have the idea of women so integrated within each course, that there is no necessity so integrated within each course, that there is no necessity for Women's Studies courses. We want the student to raise herself as a woman.' She thinks that this idea is not fully appreciated by faculty and students, but is is something that the College is working toward. 
Mandell would like to see money set aside for courses that faculty could take to learn how to im­plement the concept of woman into their courses. 
Though this philosophy exists, there is a special woman's course on campus this semester. The English Department is offering, 'Women in American Literature', taught by Professor Diane Sokolowski. A student from her class commented, 'The course is great because it provides an overview of images and roles that women have played in literature, while giving an insight into women that I have never had before.' 
As with many courses at St. Mary's, the Psychology­Sociology Department's course on Child Development 'makes an attempt to treat women with a spec1al sensitivity.' Team taught by Professors Penny Jameson and Pat Pilger, the course makes one aware of women's dilemmain raising children. 
Dr. Eunice Roberts, a special consultant for women's programs at St. Mary's, has been in education almost 40 years. Presently retired, she is Past Director of Women's Educational Programs at Indiana Univeristy. 
She expressed her opinion regarding women's studies. 'I see no need for special courses for women. My belief is that the moment you set up courses for women because they are women, you are cementing lines of com­munication. To show women's place, every course should examine contributions of women as well as men, 'Roberts said. 'I do not believe in offering a course such as'Women in Literature', since women should be included in every course. The more the sexes are separated, the less chance you will have of getting them together in society,' she added. 
Roberts said that the important thing was to make sure women have a realistic understanding of what their lives are going to be. 
Re-entry Programs 
A new direction in women's 
education is being developed 
through the r~ntry program. 
This concept makes it possible for 
the woman who has been away 
from academic life, maybe to raise 
a family, and wishes to return to 
college. At Notre Dame, each 
faculty spouse is eligible for three 
credit hpurs per semester. Mainly, 
women who take advantage of this 
program are working toward a 
degreecompletion or enrichment. 
A program for other individuals 
has not yet been devised. 
St. Mary's, as a woman's college, is moving more and more in the direction of special re-entry programs. The idea is to offer courses of interest at hours working women can attend. The goal is to give them an academic environment they can identify with, while initiating them back into the college disipline. 'We have no plans for isolated courses for older women, but will offer a few from time to time. The courses are 
open to all college students as well," said Mandell. 

Christmas shop for the unusual 
H an individual wishes to return 
''OPfN SAT. & SUN ONlY .. 
233-9820
to school, she would first see Mandell who would place her in a course on a trial basis, to see if the school is right for her and to try out her academic goals before making a complete change. Ifshe wants to stay, she can then apply for ad­mission. Mandell explained, 'The program is open to anyone. We have 5-10 students like this who live on campus. They come from different institutions because they want this type of education for a while. We have one nursing student for Rhode Island who wanted a semester of liberal arts.' 
There are presently 1(}-15 men in the program as well, taking courses in art and business. 
Some of these courses are of­fered in the evenings to make it easier for adults to attend. One cuch courses is Professor Berglund's 'Introduction to Sociology' taught on Tuesday and Thursday evenings. The course is made up of twelve people, mainly adult women. 
Next semester the Psychology Department is offering 'Principles of Behavior Modification for Parents'. The course, instructed by Professor Joseph Miller, will run from 7pm to 10 pm Wednesday evenings. 'H this course is well received, we will continue more Similar to it. It is geared to people who have been out of the educational system a while and have special needs,' Mandell said. 
Dr. William A Hickey, Vice President for Academic Affairs, determines policies for con­tinuingeducation and re-entry programs. 'The emphasis will always be on getting a degree, making it possible for anyone to get a good education which meets his or her goals in being a complete person,' stated Mandell. 
Mandell concluded that this program is not to duplicate a continuing education program, but to identify needs not being met by other schools. It is first and foremost to meet the needs of women. A unique asset to the re­entry program is provided by St. Mary's Day Care Center, located in the old clubhouse. The Center is open to children (2-5 years) of students, faculty and staff, and provide child care and nursury 
school until 5pm. 
Have Lunch with 
John Macheca & 
Father Terry Lally BULLA SHED 
Dec. 13 12 noon 
THIEUES 
MARKET 
2l09 £ EDISON ~ ILK EAST OF IIOHWOOO SOUTH BEND INDIANA 
40 PERMANENT DEALERS OF UNUSUALLY 
OISPLAYED ANTIQUES AND ORIGINAL ART -ALSO 
HANDCRAFTS. 
Continuine: Education 
Another aspect of women's 
education is found in continuing 
education programs. This includes 
the many lecture series being 
offered, as well as the conferences 
being held nationwide. Sr. John 
Miriam Jones, Assistant to th~· 
Provost, is planning one such 
conference. 
'This Person Called Woman',a 
conference to reflect on the human 
qualities of womanhood, is 
scheduled for March 25-:-27 in The 
Center for Continuing Education. 
'The approach will be humanistic, 
not woman's 'ibbish.' The question 
of who is woman, and the demands 
it takes to balance woman's role in 
these difficult transition years, 
will be topics for reflection,' said 
Jones. 
Confirmed speakers at the 
conference are Sidney Callahan and Sister Francis Borgia Rothluebber. Others who are invited include Katerine Graham, Margaret Mead, Constance Motley ·and Mary Ellman. Some people who will reflect on prayer and women include Sr. Margaret Brennan, Peggy Way, Claire Harvey and Sr. Jose. They will ask, 'What does it mean to ex­
perience God as woman?' 
'God has been defined by man 
often. So many things are ex­
pressed by menand not asked by 
women ' said Jones.
' The sleermg committee 
for the 21h day conference includes 
Sr. Madonna Kolbenshlag, Dr. 
Sheila Brenan, Mary Kay Tillman, 
Mary Lynn Broe, Sharon Regan; 
students Susan Anderson, Ann 
Payne and Lynne Arnault; and 
interested women of South Bend 
Mrs. 0. C. Carmichel, Mrs. Hazel 
Greenwood, and Miss Diane 
Aquirre. 
Sr. Jones 'delights in the fun' of 
planning the women's conference. 
Sister hopes that soon she will have 
time to dream of other long range 
things, as the coeducation brings 
on many tangible demands. 
Lecture Series 

Three different lecture series specifically for women have appeared on St. Mary's campus this fall. 
MAIN CHURCH 
5:15 pm Sat. 
Fr. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. · 9:30 am Sun. 
Fr. George Wiskirchen, C.S.C. 
10:45 am Sun. 
Fr. James Kelly, C.S.C. 
12: 15 pm Sun. 
Fr. William Toohey, C.S.C. 

RESERVATIONS 
284-4176 Bus. Hrs. 283-7054 Show Nites 
Student -Faculty ND-5MC Staff

SMC 
THEA.TRE $)50 
SEASON 1973-74 
/ 
' 
Thieves' Carnival 
Jean Anouilh's merry masquerade Dec. 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 at 8:30p.m. Washington Hall (Notre Dame) 
FOR GREAT BUYS TRY 
*MAC'S RECORD RACK* 
2925 Mishawaka Ave. 
next to River Pork Theater 
* lp's  *needles  
*special  *record  
orders  cleaning  
*tapes  equipment  

II we don't have It, we 'II get It 
Just Arrived! BeHe Midler, Santana, Jim Croce 
MATINEE and EVENING 
MONDAY & TUESDAY 
DECEMBER 10 and 11 
Please note these earlier starting times for our next attraction from The American Film Theatre 
1:00 and 7:00 p.m. 
Presenting 
LEE MARVIN ·FREDRIC MARCH • ROBERT RYAN JEFF BRIDGES • BRADFORD DILLMAN 

INDIVIDUAL TICKETS AVAILABLE MATINEES $4.00-EVENINGS $5.00 
SPECIAL STUDENTS 
MATINEE PRICE $2.50 MATINEE DAllY abc GREAT STATES
Unlimited PARKING 
FREE omcc•~mmi:JDGJ~
Telephone 
THEATRE MISHAWAKA. Indiana
259-9090 
2340 North Ht~~ott Road 



~· 
! ! . 

GASOLINE PRICES ARE GOING UP -AS A RESULT, YOU WILL BUY LESS GAS! 
WE ARE PLEDGING OURSELVES NOT TO LET THAT HAPPEN TO THE AUDIO BUSINESS-AT LEAST NOT IN THIS CITY. INSTEAD, WE ARE DOING OUR BEST TO FORCE OURSELVES AND THE OTHER DEALERS TO DISCOUNT THEIR PRICES EVEN FUR· THER SO THAT WHEN EVERYTHING ELSE WILL BE AT THE 

This receiver was rated "Eljlst Buy" by S!11!,1!Q B~vil!W, Consumer 
Gu!de-a,;d-a!;adi;,g 
independent consumer magazine. 

MILK PRICES ARE ALSO GOING UP -AS A RESULT, YOU WILL BUY LESS MILK! 
HIGHEST PRICES EVER, YOU-THE-CUSTOMER, WILL BE ABLE TO SAVE MORE ON AUDIO COMPONENTS THIS CHRISTMAS THAN EVER BEFORE. SO COMPARE PRICES NOW, THEY'VE NEVER BEEN BETTER. 
FAIR TRADE PRICE$25995 This receiver not only provides a lot of power for its price, but delivers its power with very low distortion. This com­bination has made it 

EPI 100 The performance of these speakers have made them one of the top-sellers overnight. They can be directly compared with other speakers selling for 
twice their price. 
GARRARD40B 
~:c~:;: cartridge liSt$528 
combination provides 
$ 

very good performance 
"X'n88 
and many features. 
rDN u7,. 
the Best -Seller in its 
This changer is very reliable and permits trackingaslowas 1-1/4 grams. It also includes such refinements as 

TheAudio Speelallsts 
310 North Michigan, South Bend, Indiana 46601 
IANI(AMEftiCAIO • MASffi(HAftGE FINANCING
12-8 Weekdays 12-5 Saturdays Phone 232-1611 


Institutions or homes? 
Famlly life for the retarded 
This is the second part of a two­part series by Observer reporter Jane Thornh;n covering the problems of mental retardation and what is being done to help those afflicted by it. Today, she writes of the problems that face families with retarded children. 
Billy is a 51-year-old cripple who has lived over half of his life in a state institution. His parents, Mr. and Mrs. Harold Shetterly, grandparents nine times over and celebrating their 52nd wedding anniversary, live in a pleasant frame house in Mishawaka. They talk freely about their son's care and training. 
Surgery enabled Billy to walk by age six. He learned to write his name and spell cat and go in the Sunshine Room at Lincoln School which he attended until he was 16. At that age the state was no longer legally · responsible for his education and his test scores and I Q prohibited admission to higher educational institutions. 
After the recession, the family had to make "a terrible decision"­whether to enter Billy in an in­stitution or keep him at home. 
"The point came when we had no alternatives," says Mrs. Shetterly. 
"Billy got temper tantrums and was hard to handle. One day he bit a nurse on the hand and she recommended we send him to the Fort Wayne State Hospital and Training Center." 
There, for 31 years, "he did nothing but sit all day," his mother recalls sadly. "Back in the '40's, conditions and institutions were very bad. Once he had oc­cupational therapy, but that was the extent of his training. He didn't qualify for school there either. 
The building itself was inadequate, they recalled. Showers and toilet stalls lacked handrails and grab rails for crippled patients. An unbearable stench permeated the building. Officials acknowledge that bed crowding caused an inescapable fire hazard, but did nothing to rectify the situation. 
Medical care was poor and personnel were unconcerned. Mrs. Shetterly cites several incidences typical of the neglect which oc­curred. Billy had returned for a weekend during WWII. "I always gave him a shower, first thing," she explains. "I found him com­pletely covered with body crabs." 
A South Bend physician prescribed a simple daily change of clothes and bedding, to which the institution's administrators retorted, "We just don't have enough personnel." 
Crippled again nine or ten years ago, Mrs. Shetterly pleaded for two 
"NIGHT OF INFAMY" 
Bulla Shed 
Fri 6pm ..... Sat. 6 am 
years before Billy received a walker. Three years ago the Fort Wayne institution sent him home covered with psoriasis prior to prostrate surgery. 
Billy entered Carlylye Nursing Home in South Bend two years ago, and since then, Mrs. Shetterly vows, "There's been progress you couldn't believe. He's just like our old Bill. He expresses himself, he's happy." 
The Carlyle groups keeps active by singing, playing bingo, par­ticipating in band practice and learning the alphabet and num­bers. Billy's late fall was highlighted by a two-day recreation trip to Camp Milhouse for the cripple. His mother claims he had "the time of his life playing 
basketball from a wheelchair." (continued on page 18) But most importantly, 
Mrs. ,...-----------·'1
Shetterly relates he receives "lots of love, attention and interest." 
Joel 
Dark-haired and wide-eyed Joel is a 4-year-old suffering from Down's syndrome (mongolism), a heart defect and a walking disability. His life will probably be much different from Billy's pre­Carlyle history. 
Joel will benefit even more than Billyy from mental care and training changes. As his mother, Mrs. Hamburg, affirms, "I'm glad Joel was born in 1969 as opposed to 1939 or '49 or'59 for that matter in the sense that public attitudes have changed since then." 
South Bend progress really began in 1947 when mothers of handicapped children initiated St. Joseph's County Council for the Retarded to care for the general welfare of the county's retarded citizens. 
William H. Locke, Recreation Services Coordinator for the CFR at Logan Center, elaborates, "We want to give the students necessary skills and a wide range of experiences so they can go out in the community and no longer depend on this type of faciliity ." 
The organization offers services such as transportation, nursing, and casework plus the Homestart, Logan School and Logan Industries educational programs. 
Mrs. Wanda Thorne, CFR's Community Coordinator, attests "Early training has proven to be what will make the difference. Techniques and training had to be developed through experience since no schools existed then to teach the mentally retarded. Over the years we have developed a great deal of expertise." 
Living in South Bend for two and a half years now, Mrs. Hamburg affirms, "much of Joel's really exciting development took place here." 
Enrolled in Logan Center's Homestart Program, Joel will go on to Logan School, Logan In­dustries and a community job. 
Mrs. Hamburg says the Homestart Program at Logan Center, serving mongoloid children aged birth to five years, was initiated because "any child receives the build of his education before age five, and for mentally retarded children, this is especially so." 
"It's easy for a parent to fall into the patten of thinking, well, he's retarded and can't achieve," the mother of four cautions. "The Homsestart Program works with the parentswhowork with the child in the home. The offshoot of this is 
609 East Jefferson Mishawaka 
One good turn 
deserves another. 
From one beer lover to another. 
Friday, December 7, 1973 the observer 
9 

ITALlAN & BRITISH SHAG & LAYER CUTS HAIR & SCALP ANALYSIS Sam Belardinella Mike McDonald FOR APPOINTMENTS CALL 288-6661 Closed Monday See Our New MEN'S DEN . featuring The Latest fashiOfts In Men's Clothes 2303 S. MIAMI S. BEND  JUST N. OF BUSCHaAUM'S PHARMACr  

SOCIAL COMMISSION PRESENTS 
A FUN-FILLED WEEKEND: 
TOMORROW NIGHT: 
ARMORY PARTY 
8:30 . 12:30 
2 BANDS! KEGS OF FUN! 
TICKETS WILL BE SOLD AT THE DOOR 
also available tonight in the dining halls $2.50 per person 
FREE BUS SERVICE: LEAVES NO CIRCLE AT: 8, 8:15,8:30,8:45,9,9:15 SMC AT: 8:05,8:20,8:35,8:50,9:05,9:20 ARMORY AT: 11:30,11:45,12:00,12:15,12:30 
SUNDAY: 
COME TO THE CARTOON FESTIVAL ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM: 
7:00 & 9:00 pm FREE ADMISSION 
,, I 
~ 



_l....;;.O___t:...;;h..;..e~o..:::...::b:...s:...e::....:...r.:..v....;;.e;..:.r______:F..:r~id::a;.!..y:...., December 1, 1973 
'\ 
•
you'll roll 1n the aisle at thieves' carnival 


Washington Hall is the scene this week of the season's second production for the Notre Dame­St. Mary's Theatre, Thieves' Carnival~ Under the direction of Charles Ballinger, Jean Anouilh's delightful drawing room farce gets off to a slow start, but by the end will have you rolling in the isles. 
The story, set in early twentieth centry Paris concerns three smalltime thieves who, masquerading as a duke and his two sons, have the great luck of being invited to the home of their would-be victim, Lady Hurf. One of the thieves, however, has quite unwittingly fallen in love with Lady Hurl's daughter Juliette, and the stage is set for a struggling romance against a background of absurd comedy. 
Jimmy Boland as the master­mind leader of the trio of thieves, Peterbono, will steal your eye before the second scene. Boland puts in an energetic performance that is first rate. Boland, you may rem em ember, played the part of that last great robber to hit the campus stage, the Artful Dodger in Oliver!. As Peterbono, however, with all the right touches, precisely the right timing, he far surpasses anything we've seen him do. 
Although Boland may steal your eye, be wary of Ed Gray, as Lord Edgard, for by the climax he will steal, if not outright stop, the show. 
Edslard is the dottering old
r' 
acquamtance of Lady Hurf who, considered to heve lost his marbles long ago, is really much more on the ball than anyone realizes. Gray gives the loveable gent a toothless grin, a mad look in his eye and by the time he moans"Im slow down-it would be a shamecrumpled!" if your'e not doubled to miss a single one of thosewith laughter you're just not amusing lines. The play has itswatching. 
ups and downs, with some of the 
Not to be overlooked, Kathy players, Ralph Brunneau as Burke puts in a more than Gustave and Christine Sterner in adequate performance as Lady particular, being able to carry off Hurl. Stricken with a bad case their roles better at certain times of ennue, Lady Hurf sets out to than others. enjoy a 'gigantic piece of folly' to 
Richard Bergman's set is simple
alleviate the strain of being rich. but elegant. An impressionistic
Well cast in the part, Miss Burke drop provides background for the 
obviously enjoys her role. park scene and the drawing room 
Jamie Massa is a charming , is done in gilded mirrors, a 
mischievous Musician, the clarinet glistening chandelier, gold velvet 
being one of Anouilh's inventive furniture and tassels. A mishmash 
ways of providing humor, back-of gaudy trinkets and classical 
ground and commentary. To statues line the walls-the Venus 
sPveral of the actors we would plea with the clock in her stomach is a 
Start your \4-eekend at ••• 
Bulla Shed 
( Corner of Bulla and Juniper across from Grace Tower) 
.·· 
MASS AND DINNER 
Friday 5:00 p.m. 
732 -coulouse st: ~ 73'2 st: p€t'€R-St:' }'€W ORleans,~· 70116 ~tel: (so4) 5.23-SOlo 
'Welcomes the · 
FiGhtin() IRls}J 


to 
)'Jew oRleans 
-cheRe -witt se no ~ cn.imson ~ibe-i) -wheRe the Rive~ shannon F1ows .... 
dlnd w~re norjusr1t1hfstlin' 1)~fe! 
ru11H1H1m••••'•J•i•M•'•M•••••.,••,•••N•n•AII?uiiiG~~t•I21111HUim1211A12111121?1NMni•:SIIIIIIIIIH1mnnmmmt?1
0
i 
tips for fun 

I in New Orleans 
!===== 

Umou,;ne and bu~::-=~o::~o$;.oo P"' pe..on 
Cab service (3 people) $3.00 per person United Cab 522-9771 
Ell===­
Yellow Cab 525-3311 

a_-OUR FAVORITE LOCAL BARS Molly's Irish Pub 732 Toulouse Open 24 Hours
i 732 St. Peter ~ The Napoleon House 500 Chartres j Pat O'Brien's 718 St. PeterI Cafe Maspero 440 Chartres 
i OUR FAVORITE LOCAL EATING PLACES 
!! Monaghan's Patio Royal Creole Cooking 621 Royal Royal Orleans Hotel -Rib Room Great Prime Rib 621 St. Louis The Embers Charbroiled Steaks 700 Bourbon Fisherman's Wharf Seafood 1135 St. Mary Molly's Irish Pub After Hours Breakfast 732 Toulouse Cafe Du Monde Coffee Stand 
I Famous for French Doughnuts French Market FUN THINGS TO DO R1de streetcar to Audubon Park 
Dn'nk till sunrise at Molly's Shop on Royal Street Bicycle thru the Quarter TALK TO A LOCAL! 

Jlub 
732 Toulouse-732 St. Peter French Quarter, New Orleans, Louisiana 
a review by kathy schwille 

stroke of genius. 
Make-up for Thieves' Carnival is coordinated by Debbie Tirsway and struck us as being quite good The eye-catching costumes are designed by Faith Adams, and several of the ladies' dresses are of special note. Using icy blue, flaming reds and satiny fabrics, the gowns coordinate well with the set and emphasize the glittering, 
Dotltletthe priceofa college education stop you. 
The price of a college education is skyrocket­ing. Fortunately the Air Force had done some­thing to catch up with it. For the first time, the 6500 Air Force ROTC Scholarships include the 2-year program, for both men and women. 
If you can qualify, the Air Force will pay for the remainder of your college education. Not only do ROTC 2-year college scholarships cover full tuition, but reimbursement for text­books, lab and incidental fees, as well as a tax­free monthly allowance of $100. 
To cash in on all this just apply, qualify, and enroll in the Air Force ROTC at · BuDding 5; contact Capt. Shepherd, 283-6634. 
It's a great way to finish your college educa­tion in the money, and enjoy a future where the sky's no limit ... as an officer in the Air Force. 
superficial lifestyle of the Parisian rich. 
Anouilh's work may mot be as familiar to campus audiences as the work of other playwrights, but don't miss the opporutnity to acquaint yourself with sheer farce. 
'A Tthieves' Carnival?' says Dupont-Dufort Senior, 'How terribly. terribly amusing!' Well 
said Dufort 
525-7852 
529-5333 523-1485 525-1701 523-8016 
I 
! 
_5S===-~ 
· :: 
=-~== 
i 
I § = 
iii 
i 
5 
i 
l_l 
iiii 
i
I
I 


... 
o~.L--L---·.--1 t: 

Cook plant: 
Energy for 
the future 
by Gary AIUetta Staff Reporter 
BRIDGMAN IS A SLEEPY little fishing resort village on the shores of Lake Michigan. Traveling into town from I-94 on a cold November afternoon, it's not uncommon to see signs such as "Closed for Season" posted in many store windows. 
One would hardly expect that the Indiana and Michigan Electric Company would choose such a place to build one of the most modern and powerful nuclear power plants in the world. 
The Cook Nuclear Plant, I&M's newest and one of the nation's largest, will be capable of producing 2.2 million kilowatts of power. It will have two fission reactors, each capable of producing 1.1 million kilowatts of electricity. Presently, the plant is still under construction but one of the reactors is scheduled to begin operation during early 1974, to be followed a year later by the other. 
The complex is located on a 65G-acre tract of land extending back from the lake front into the Michigan countryside. Most of the land is undeveloped, but necessarily so. Within transformers just a few hun­dred feet from the plant itself, the electricity is in­creased to 760,000 volts and sent out through high tension wires. If the lines were ever to fall, anything below them would be destroyed. So the land remains untouched. 
The plant is named for Donald C. Cook, chairman of the board of American Electric Power (AEP), the parent corporation for I&M. He is also the president of Indiana and Michigan Electric. 
MANY PEOPLE WONDER about the advisibility of operating a nuclear plant instead of a fuel-burning one.They wonder why a nuclear plant is necessary at all. 
One reason is that by 1980, the demand for electricity is expected to increase 85 per cent. With a shortage of fossil fuels, such as oil, which in turn creates problems in mining coal, there could be a serious discrepancy between supply and demand for electricity. Presently, 34 nuclear plants are in operation in this country, with 60 more under construction and 84 others being designed. By the year 2000, it is hoped that over 50 per cent of the nation's electricity will come from nuclear plants. 
THERE ARE TWO MAJOR operations in any electric plant. The main one produces the electricity by means of one or Rlore spinning turbines turning a giant generator. This operation is similar in all circuit, which is replaced by running water in hydroelectric plants and a furnace-<>riented system in fuel-burning plants. 

Basically, the heating circuit of the Cook plant can be divided into four parts: 1.) the reactor itself; 2) the main heating loop; 3) the secondary heating loop; and 
4) the cooling system. 
The reactor is the part of the system that sets tile Cook plant apart from most other electric plants. A fuel-burning system depends on fire for heat; a nuclear plant generates heat by nuclear fission, or the splitting of atoms. 
The reactor at the Cook plant looks something like a giant bulb. At the center of the bulb are 204 fuel rods, each 12 feet long. Each rod is filled with uranium pellets about the size of pencil erasers and are arranged in a circle so that most of the fission occurs at the center. 
To control the fission, which consists of a neutron shooting from one atom and splitting adjacent atoms, other rods containing a neutron-accepting element such as boron are inserted between the fuel rods. The distance the control rod is inserted in to the core controls the amount of fission, thus regulating the heat in the main system. 
NUCLEAR PLANTS VARY in another way from conventional power producers. Fuel-burning plants will usually send steam directly from the heat source to the turbines. In a nuclear plant, however, the water heated by fission will be radioactive. Therefore, heat must be transferred to some other conductor before going to the turbines. 
In the main heating loop, water is heated to over 600 degrees in the reactor, but kept at a pressure of 2250 pounds per square inch (psi) to keep it from turning to steam. Then the super-heated water rushes to four steam generators. . 
At the steam generator, the main system's heat is transferred to the secondary loop; the original hot water and its radioactivity remain within the main system. 
In the secondary loop, the heat turns the water to high pressure steam of over 500 degrees. The steam 
An artist's conception of the Cook Nuclear Center, which is currently open to the public. Located on Interstate 94, the center is open Tuesday through Saturday from 10 a.m. to 5 
p.m. and from 12 noon to 6 p.m. Sunday. (Photo and diagram below courtesy of the Cook Nuclear Center) 
turbines, spinning their blades 1800 times per minute. 
As the steam cools, its pressure decreases and it loses effectiveness. To gain more pressure, it must first be condensed and then reheated. To condense the steam, cool water from Lake Michigan is pumped into the plant and around the pipes containing the hot steam. The vapor condenses to water at 425 degrees and is pumped back to the generators; the cooling water, heated to 15 to 21 degrees above normal, flows back to the lake. 
One and a half million gallons of Lake Michigan are thus pumped through the cooling system every hour. Cool water comes in from three 16-foot wide pipes buried in the lake bottom a half mile from shore. Warm water discharges through four similar pipes a quarter of a mile from shore. 
EACH OF THE 470-TON reactors is housed in a 164­foot high domed building known as a containment, whose walls are three and a half feet thick witll 4-inch steel linings. Martha Kiander of the public affairs department at the plant said the reason reactors are housed in domed buildings is because of the structural strength of the dome. 
Designers have built a safety precaution into the Cook plant unlike any other functional nuclear plant. Lining the walls of each containment are three million pounds of borated ice cubes, forming a condenser system. Should any of the hot water pipes ever spring a leak, tile hot steam would be condensed by tile ice, and the radioactivity neutralized by the boron in them. 
Kiander also said that "because of our unique ice containment, the building is designed to withstand 10 psi instead of 60 psi for buildings that don't have it. That helps keep down the peak pressure so that in case of an accident there would be less pressure trying to force fission products out." 
~ 
1 
: 
.J 




; I 
THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER  
Art Ferranti Executive Editor  Jerry Lutkus Editor-in-Chief  Dan &.irreH Executive Editor  
Lee Gentine Business Manager  NEWS: 283-17\5 EDITORIALS: 283-8661 BUSINESS: 283-7471  John Kloos Advertising Manager  

Friday, December 7, 1973 
~~~~.~~ 
Our Yule Wishes 
Though The Observer spends the greater part of the academic year par­ticipating in the spirit of giving, the Editorial Board traditionally takes great delight in wishing a special Christmas to some very special people. 
Here follows our Christmas list for the yule of 1973 : The Student Body·· A calendar that they can live with. Ara--The biggest catch of his life--The Bear--in the Sugar Bowl. 
Fr. Burtchaell--A year's supply of Lava with which to wash his hands of the calendar mess. 
Mr. Faccenda··A trade-in on his Vitalis for some Dry Control. 
Fr. Rlehle-·A pack of "good" cigars, and co-authorship with Fr. Hesburgh on "How to Avoid the Notre Dame Campus:• 
Ticket Manager Don Bouffard··A seven hour wait for a Sugar Bowl endzone seat behind a large cement pillar. 
John Macheca·· a coed handball court 
and a new "dope" list--of those in the 
administration. 
WSND--Some listeners and the guts to play The Observer in the media bowl. 
The Scholastic--A secret contribution 
from Bebe Rebozo and some evaluations 
from people who attend classes here. 
Jerry Lutkus--An end to the "l:lairless" 
jokes, but even Santa has his limits. 
Student Union--Army for next year's 
Homecoming Game and a director who's 
not a Republican. 
The Juggler·· A closet with a mailslot and a typewriter. LSAT,GRE,and Comp takers--a well­deserved rest afterwords. 
~~~~~~ 
Editor-in-Chief • Jerry Lutkus Executive Editor · Dan Barrett Executive Editor · Art Ferranti Managing Editor · Joe Abell News Editor • Tom Drape Editorial Editor · Bulch Ward SMC Editor · Marla Gallagher Features Editor · Kathy Schwille Sports Editor -Vic Oorr Wire Editor. An Ann McCarry Associate Editor • Anthony Abowd Associate Editor • Rod Braye Associate Editor · Marlene Zioza 
Photographers: Joe Raymond, (editor), Brian Dowe, Maria Gallagher, Senon Bidzinski, Jamie Declo, Bill Tehner. Trracy Duffin, Mike Budd, Ed Brower, Ann Borrows, Jim Rosinl, Bob Kincard, Bob Coe, and Jerome Phillips. 
Circulation Staff: Frank 2.eletel (Circulation -Manager), 
Matt Cavanaugh, Linda Hoitcamp, John Mcintyre. Night Editors: Bill Brink <Sunday), Robert Baker (Mon­day), AI Rutherford (Tuesday), AI D'Antonio (Wed­nesday). Joe Abell (ThurSday). 
Assistant Night Editors: Dan Sanchez, Jim O'Reilley, Tom Oebvine, Ayn Moriarty, Rick Blower. Business Staff: Lee Gentlne (Business Manager), Ceil Popovich (Business Secretary); 
Sports Staff: John Fineran, Greg Corgan, Peggy Lawlor. 
Reporters: Gary Allietta, William Aramony, Gregg Bangs, Kit Baron, Zenon Bidzinski, Ken Bradford, Sue Carey, Paul Colgan, Denise Crowley, Jack D'Aurora, John DeCoursey, Janet Oenefe, Jack Oerheimer, Claude Devaney, Mike Dewey, Anthony DiSabitino, Jim Oonathen, Ellen Duffy, Jim Eder, Eugene Fineran, Thomas Franco, Fred Graver, Carol Guckert, Ted Guth, Patrick Hanifin, KURT Heinz, Clyde iverson, Dave Kaminski, Tom Kruczek, Janet Krier, Mike Kulczyki, Joseph LaFiare, Katherine Lawrence, David Lee, Rick Littlefield, Janet Longfellow, Camarry 

~~~ ~ ~ ~'------......:....--1....___ ___. 
L---------------------------------------------------
McCarry, Ginger McGown. Denny McLean, Jim Melia, Phyllis Mosley, John MouShigian, Jeanne Murphy, William Murphy, David Newman, Thomas O'Neil, Tim O'Reilly, Bill Powers, Tony Proscia, Bob Quakenbush, Kathleen Riordan, Greg Rowinski, Tom Russo, AI Rutherford, Bill Sabin, Rick Scharf, Donald Schwander, Jackie Simmons, Bill Sohn, Richard Sonoski, Larry Stanton, Andy Swanfeidt, Paul Szewczyk, Michelle Tate, Jane Thornton, Rick Thues, George Velcich, Paul Waller, Mike Welby, Howard Wood, Paul Young, Valerie Zurbiis, Donna Anania, Mary Jane Anderson, Diane Bennett, Mary Lu Biich, Mindy Bright, Susan Buzbee, Melissa Byrne, Janie Cannon, Susan Divite. Mary Donnelly, Peggy Frericks, Leanne Jacques, Mary Janca, OebbieLynch, Ellen Maiverzl, Cecilia Michel, Judy Peterson, Judy Rauenhorst, Susan Sarconi, Oorathee Wielord, Patti Cooney 
Day Editors: Mary Janca (weekend), Tom Bundy (Mon­day), Marlene Zioza (Monday), Jim Roslnl (Tuesday), Jack Kelly (WedneSday>. Terry Keeney (ThurSday). 
Subscriptions Staff: Matt Lam (Subscriptions Manager), AI Hamilton, Jackie Schmizzi. 
Copy Readers: Rick Thues, Terry Keeney, Greg Aiello, 
Greg Rowinski, Pattie Cooney, Marlene Zloza. 
Typing Staff: Howard Haile (Manager>. Barb Norcross, Connie Fourre, Tom Modglin, John Flanigan, Steve Roper,. Mike Goetz, Joe Abell, Joe Wilkowski, Chris Knecht, Carole Rechtensteiner, Mike Sidel, T.J. Clinton, Phil Orschein, Carolina. 
Advertising Staff: John Kloos (Ad Manager). Paddy 
Swiney (Asst. Ad Manager L George Adeilo, Pete Kernan, 
Pete Fries, Bob McManus, Rick Nauman, Ken Kampman. 
Merry Christmas from a II at The Observer! 
SMC Dining Hall·· An end to the saga. 
Moose Krause--Three national championships and the Lithuanian Man­of the Year. 
Army--A schedule with only Eastern football teams on it--minus Navy. 
Edmund Price--Another ''special'' night--"Cannibal Night"--featuring deep­fried Nixon. 
Blll McLain--A revision. 
Fr. Bill Toohey··A new cause-finding a friend who writes letters to the editor and a life-time supply of Aqua-Net. 
Chris Singleton--Something you've always wanted: a hall named after you. 
Dean Ray Powell--Enrollment in a CPA coaching course--Class Performance for Administrators. 
Ken Knevel··Some funds for the LaFortune Renovation Ken McCandless-A flashlight with Fr. Wilson's autograph on it. 
H-Man-Blank diploma. 
Arthur Pears--A staff as alert as Darby O'Gill. 
Digger Phelps--A home interior decorator with the same color fetishes as his uniform designer.
Kerry McNamara--A last "last word" 
and a cram course in government 
Dr. Henry •• A Fr. Burtchaell to take 
the heat off, or better yet, the Fr. Burt· 
chaell. 
First semester graduates 
Congratulations and e;ood-bye 
The rest of the world--Peace on the birthday of the' Lord and on every suc­ceeding day. 
Peace, Notre Dame! And Merry 
Christmas! The Editorial Board 
Opinion 
Stranger's Thoughts 
fred antczak 
I have two things to talk about, neither of which is long enough to fill a whole column. Forgive me for a rough transition; at least neither thought will be belabored. 
The first agendum is the calendar. Briefly, I think Burtchaell's argument is more nearly correct, but his actions make it difficult to defend. 
The student body and this paper are caught up in a very real gripe, but they misread what it is. The Observer's alternative calendar has been tried before, and failed quite miserably every time; studying straight through to Thanksgiving has PROVEN too long a stretch to endure. Kids were left with no psychic energy to learn anything­Psych Services and the Infirmary are revealing about this. Ap­preciably more students broke down physically under that kind of calendar; even a greater number suffered mental or nervous break­downs severe enough to require treatment, which interrupts and damages the semester. 
The argument about earnings lost to an early start is powerful. But to be sharply economical about it, why spend that hard~arned money for a semester that, as most exam-readers will verify, teaches you less? Assuming, as these arguers clearly do, that education is worth the money at all, a calmer calendar is worth more, worth going a further into debt for. 
The real malaise that people are sensing is the way we are ruled here. The attitude of the Administration--in Faccenda's gentle black­mail over drinking rules, in the Provost's ramrod methods-seems to be "we know what's good for you and you'll do it, kid or else." Most of the time, their first premise IS true. But dammit, this is a school for human beings, not a Skinner box to produce prudent (i.e. convenient for the Administration?) behavior. Notre Dame .should exist not to inculcate habits, but to help people make better choices themselves. The question is, are the lawyers, managers, and clerks in the Dome committed to that, and to us? Or to their own convenience? 
Two alternatives are possible to the Provost's calendar. First, The Observer's. Psych Services, the Infirmary, the teachers who've known it, and the students who can remember might agree-l'm con­vinced they would, but that's beside the point for the moment--that this alternativ~ won't work the way people think it would. The point is to make the students able to judge what's good for us, whatever it may be. I'm not authoritative on that, neither is Mr. Lutkus, nor your roommate, nor Father Burtchaell. I recommend that we try The Observer's calendar, and ask us next year after finals. 
The other alternative is to switch to a 13 week fall and a 15 week spring. Face it, ND isn't going to lose· its accreditation for that. Further, it serves all concerns better than the other options. The big blockade is the administration. God knows why--maybe He knows­but they sure don't feel they have to explain anything to us mortals. Still, I suspect that, if the idea were seriously suggested, many of the faculty wouldn't go for it either: "I've got my courses geared to 14 weeks. What do you want me to do, rethink the whole thing? Do you want me to TEAR UP MY NOTES?" I'm not playing the misan­thrope; when the 13-15 idea once was suggested, precisely that was the faculty reaction. The administration, I take it, objected because no one else does it. You know, it might not hurt any of us to tear up our notes, and rethink once in a while. 
The other thing I wanted to say was Merry Christmas to you. Odds are I'm a stranger to you, and so such a greeting sounds like so much scholock, as suspicious and as specious as a piping "Joyeaux Noel" interrupting the business of Christmas shopping. But Christmas is for strangers. I can't express clearly how important strangers are, how crucial unexpected gentleness is. Nor can I articulate how the real meaning of a smile or a kindness surfaces when then: is no reason to do it, no binding etiquette that demands it. The sad thing is that a lot of acquaintances are only that, calculative, purposive activity, or ac­tivity just to keep people at a safe distance. I can't really tell you about these things at all, but my inabilities to the contrary all that matters, and Christmas is the Celebration of things that matter, without which we would all stay strangers in the darkest and coldest of winters. 
A festive and glorious Christmas of the Comet, and a love-lit 1974. 
me ClJHHtme IUc APP/i!£C/AT£ 1JI& fJKJUtP IJI(£ 10 THANK Tf<Of/BL.E YOtJ 100K ~ /!£FI/6tC 11//TN/JSS&S 10 COM& AU THE IUAY 
a. 

FOR. 1H&t~ t1ANY IN-10 WASHIN617JN, P.C. 
a 

56(15 /NT/) THe RHf/6&& 10 PROVI/JC YOll~ P!lO!Jt&M IN sot/THliAST 1&s!lMONY. 
/ASIA. 

.... 


"Crush-1n. " 
Editor: 
Anyone who participated in Monday's Sugar Bowl "Crush-in" at the ACC is probably wondering why it had to happen that way. The blame lies partly with human nature, but most of the credit goes to the Ticket Commission. 
These people displayed in­difference to the student from the start, allotting 1000 tickets to the students, which were not enough for senior·s wishing to go, let alone the student body. This is really poor if you relate some statistics which show that a regular season game gives 14-18 per cent <ND­SMCJ of the seats to the students, wh1le the Sugar Bowl allotment is 7 per cent, or less than half the regular ratio. 
Rah-rah-ism, aside, this is a rather blatant insult to the students. I realize that students can't contribute $$$ like alumni, but someday we will be in that position also, and this lack of respect does nothing but harm our memory. I would also hope I'll never become so narrow-minded as to take a ticket away from a student wishing to see his own team play. 
Sincerely, 
J. W. Wentling 
No easy courses 
Editor: 
Ordinarily I welcome Course 
Evaluation Books, both here and at 
Columbia. The writeups are 
generally fair and helpful-more 
helpful than the silent rows of 
numbers which the local computer 
spews forth in its semiannual 
frenzy of quantification-and have, 
I think, contributed to the im­
provement of my courses. This 
year's CEB is an exception; and 
the fault is editorial, not among the 
reasons listed in Mr. Runde's 
preface. What I object to is 
having a verbatim reprint of last 
year's evaluation of the "Civil 
War and Reconstruction" course 
passed off as an evaluation of next 
semester's course. 
Because of last year's 
evaluation--which was generally 
quite favorable, incidentally--! 
made some structural changes in 
the course. These changes were 
published by the History 
Department in its listing of course 
descriptions, a listing that is 
available to anyone who wants one. 
Among the changes were: 1) a 
reduction of the reading 
requirement from fourteen books 
to ten; 2)a revision and updating of 
the reading syllabus; 3) a 
reduction of the written assign­
ments, with the addition of an 
optional alternative; and 4) 
revised requirements for graduate 
students. Yet I now find last year's 
requirements republished as if 
they were current, along with the 
comment that these requirements 
are "inordinate." Maybe last 
year's requirements were heavy 
(although significantly lighter 
than those asked of a Columbia 
undergraduate major (oh, I get 
it!!!)); but this year I would 
prefer to be evaluated on 
The purpose of a course evaluation is to improve a course. If improvements made as the result of a course evaluation are not considered when the course is again evaluated, a teacher has very little reason to continue considering the evalutaions seriously. 
Happily the CEB also got the course number wrong, so maybe people will ignore this writeup (hopefully this letter too.). Lest anyone imagine that the reduction of reading by a third and of writing by half will make the new course any easiier, my syllbus states that "B-minus" is the average grade in the course. And I don't take any easy courses either, so there!! 
Cordially, Bob Kerby 
No evaluations 
Editor: 
It is time once more for the of­ficial, computerized student evaluation of courses. Why repeat the routine, skillfully managed though it may be, when obviously the administration cares nothing about student opinion? Witness the ,·ecent issue of the revisedcalendar, which at least serves the purpose of allowing students to share with the faculty a sense of futility. Perhaps this is what ad­ministrators have in mind when they harp on the term community. 
How my colleagues feel I know not, but as for myself I will not go through the ritual again until the administration submits itself to an evaluation by students, to be assessed by the faculty. Students are as competent (in my judgment as incompetent) to judge the ad­m inistra lion as the faculty. 
From personal experience I have learned that those who speak for the NotreDame administration 
· often do not honor written com­mitments. This being the case, I would expect the administration cavalierly to dismiss any evaluation of a professor which it is deemed exP.edient to ignore. Why, then, continue the farce? 
I am not going to put my reputation on the line (in spite of the past generosity of students), year in and year out, fo1 the possible titillation of ad­ministratorswho are accountable only to themselves. 
Sincerely, Fredrick B. Pike Professor 
Beat Barna 
An Open Letter to the Team and Student Body 
Everyone of you know that on December 31st we play Alabama for th": national championship. So you might be content to think that !he ch~mpionship alone is enough mce':ltive. It won't be for Bama and It better not be for us. For all of you who neither live in Alabama 
. nor ~ave experienced Bama hystena--they are gunning for a lot more. You Seniors and Juniors have to reach back only to Nov~mber 1971 for a painful 
•·emmder. In that year it was another Southeastern conference 
...L_ -L---··-­

Friday, December 7, 1973 
the observer 13 

after we faltered to' u:s.c:? so to hsell with justice." 
Alabama was in a state of sadistic But the root cause of the glee--not only that they were problem, obviously, is the fact that champs but that they had gotten it there. are 8000 students and only 
away from us. And do you IOOO tickets. Of the tickets ND was remember who won the Heisman allotted by the Sugar Bowl, 8 per trophy in '64--Huarte--not Namath. cent were pegged for students and Only mention 1966 in Alabama and 92 per cent were reserved by the 
if tempers could be turned to administration for God knows who. energy the crisis would be solved. It is this. ddiculous inequity, and As Bama fans have it, our bowl the feeling of desperation it policy was only an easy out for not produced, which was the real 
facing certain defeat against cause of the mob scene at the ACC 
Bama in the Sugar Bowl. The Monday. 
c.ount has been lost as to how many 
times each year southern papers Tim Kelly 
slur ND on that famous 10-10 tie. foe--L.S.U. Perhaps you'll For us 1966 maybe a pleasant remember the Observer reprint of memory but for the Bama kids in Thermopylae? 
an L.S.U. bumper sticker which '66 who are now players in '73 that Dear Editor,read: "Go to Hell Notre Dame." memory is a gnawing hunger. For 
Worse ytt ND confirmed all the th~m those gold helmets are only Yeah, yeah I've heard it allsouthern bad mouthing by losing gomg to make '66 dance in their before, it's quality, not quantity28-8. Well, that same L.S.U. heads. Then last year there was that couuts. And I am sure in my
the fiasco between Ara and Bear
sentiment is alive and well in biased way that a Notre DameAlabama. This time the bumper over bowl site selection. In student can out-cheer anystickers run from the inane, 1·eporting the match-up this year Alabama student. But 5,000 vs.
"Notre Dame May Have the Pope-­one sportwriter began his article 1,000? Somehow I am reminded ofbut Bam a has the Bear", to the with--"now Bama has the chance the Spartans at Thermopylae.
to make Ara eat his words."
vicous "Damn Notre Dame." 
Having it all over the Persian

On December 31 the red in
You may still say--it's to be hordes in ability and moral, the
Bama's eyes won't be just a
expected in a championship game­Spartans were still beaten by the
,·eflection of their jerseys. They
-but you're wrong. This game numerical superiority of Xerxes' means much much more to Bama, want the nati~nal title but they army. It is my contention that to their state and to the South. want us fir~t. · l can't convey the cheering supporters do make aNotre Dame is all they despise electric animosity that Bama has difference on a team and fewwrapped up in one. We are for ND, so as Willie Townsend said alumni can match the enthusiasmCatholic, we have an academic earlier in the year: "Enough's of the same number of students.
reputation, we are "liberal," and been said, the time is now." 
So, I would hope Mr. Bouffard and we are northern. Many souther­the others responsible realize that ners personally blame Hesburgh Beat Bama, while contributing alumni are fine,for a lot of civil rights laws and Alex Shaice the: experience belongs to therulings. Four years ago a sport­Howard Hall students.

swriter from the Birmingham News came to ND to cover that Yours truly, first ND-L.S.U. bout. He returned Only 1000 to write a damning article about Michael Ryan the university only mentioning our victory at the very end. He called Editor: our student body dirty, long-haired llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll and 1·adical; then he went on to say I would like to commend Joseph he was glad to be back in God's Abell for the constructive 
The_ Observer reserves the rightcount1·y and away from that suggestions for ticket distribution to edit all letters according toheathen university. But this is only which he offered in his editorial space requirements. All letterstypical behavior of Alabama "The Ticket to Integrity." At the should be type-written, double­sportswriters--while home for same time, however, I think he spaced and limited to no more thanThanksgiving our local Howard was unfair in his view of student two pages. Letters can be dropped Cosell announced that he was behavior at the ACC Monday. A off at The Observer office orstarting a hate Notre Dame large part of the blame must be mailed to The Observer, Box Q,campaign on his evening sports shoulde1·ed by the ACC itself, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Columnshow. which failed utterly to make any slots reflect the opinion of theBut the animosity doesn't end provision at all (cordons signs writers and are open to allwith sportwswriters but even etc.) for the large cro~d they members of the ND-SMC com­extends to the playing field where should have expected. Their at­munity.

we have never met. Do you titude seemed to be "We know remember who was No. 1 in 1964 we're going to sell all the tickets, llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 
Two Views of Dylan and B-Ball 
Dear Editor: their domo's performance, their might also rec.ognize that if 
One would hope that Patrick probable motivation was the fact anything is "typical" in this Dillon would turn the same that their alternative to Notre cancellation,it is the Fillmore and jaundiced eye with which he views Dame had considerably more Dylan dedication to the big buck. Notre Dame to Dylan and Com­seats, and thus cash, to offer. He might also ask how much more pany. It hardly takes ex­While Dillon expresses hopes that money the ACC might have taken traordinary cynicism to recognize the Dylan cancellation is not in were they to ruthlessly opt for that while the Dylan managers "typical" of Notre Dame, he might the concert and cancel the 
publicly based their cancellation recall that the basketball com­basketball game, with its seats on the possibility that they would mitment was made long before the "two-thirds" full. not be able to set up their sound Jester decided to leave the 
equipment in the four hours sidelines. He might also recall that C.J. Nau separating the end of the it was the Dylan organization that 220 Keenan basketball game and the start of cancelled the performance. He 
,1 
'I 
00 00

00 0 0 0 .;)
Cl :. 
0 c tJ c 

0 0 ~ 0 c 
0 0 
0 
o· 0
0 0
0 0 0 c 0 
0 0 c c 00 

~-c' ~ e c. oo (.' 0 ··: 0 c:­
fN'_:··o. BASKEt BA~~IJ 

....---·-----... -... -----·· --__ ......~----------·-·----.-~--­
I' 
.. 
v· 

~,/~"> 
l-' •., 
.· '"' -.., 
, r:. 


,. 

'SEEMS THERE WILL ALWAYS BE ENOUGH POWER TO BROADCAST THE LATEST CRISIS MESSAGE!' 
() 
N 
,.~"·· ..... ··-"'''~'· 

' ••• aUT IF IVIRYONI PULLS HIS WIIOHT, I'M SURE WE'LL GET THROUGH THE CRISIS OK!' 
l<L-2s< 
~ 

-
~ 
;r
-
!D 
cr 
Ill 
CD
., 
<
!D
.., ,
.. 
e: 
~ 
~~ 

1~ 
"'\ 
:" 
:0 
c:: 
'I HOPE ONE OF YOU REMEMBERED TO TURN DOWN THE THERMOSTAT BEFORE YOU LEFT HOME.' 

E N 
E 
~ ~ 
y 
'DON'T WORRY IF THE WEST SHUTS OFF YOUR GRAIN SHIPMENTS-I CAN GET A GOOD DEAL ON THE AMERICAN STUFF!' 


Friday, December 7, 1973 the observer 15 

This is the year I would like to give a holiday party in the middle of Times Square with a Christmas tree, tinselled in silver and shimmering from the light of a million candles, that reaches ten stories higher than the tallest buildings in New York City. It would be a party where children from ruined villages in Viet Nam could come and find love; where old men could come and recover innocence ; where old ladies could come and learn to be young again. It would be a party such as only God Himself could give, if he celebrated Christmas as I would celebrate Christmas, if I were as rich and clever and resourceful as God, and if, being God, I could get Mayor Lindsay's permission to use Times Square as the scene for wassailing and for the Second Coming of Christ. 
But, of course, I am not God, a fact for which the Bishop, I un­derstand is duly grateful; and to tell the truth, I'm rather happy about the arrangement myself. As a reigning deity, I have no sons to give; whereas God gave His only­begotten Son. It is the gift of that Son that makes all the difference of Christmas, even toa man who writes foolishness like me. 
So having to make do with the hardships of creatureliness (even being God, I am told, is no bed of roses), I shall celebrate Christmas in the City in a limited, human way. On Christmas eve, I shall walk up Forty-second Street with Darby, me with a sprig of holly in my buttonhole, him wearing bells of sterling silver. 
To the policeman, the con artist, the ingenue, the slumming rich lady, and the derelicts, I shall say: "Tis the season to be jolly .... Fa la la la la la, la la la la. 
The policeman will sniff at me to see if I'm stoned. The con artist will try to sell me a wristwatch The slumming rich lady will think I am trying to pick her up. The derelicts will ask for money, and the ingenue, smiling sweetly, will tum out to be somebody's brother 
("Don we now our gay apparell, Fa Ia Ia Ia Ia, Ia Ia la Ia. ") 
I think the Lord Jesus, wrapped in swaddling clothes and lying in a manger, would have difficulty cracking the heart of that crowd on 42nd Street. With the suspicion natural to people who have learned to trust nobody, they would think He was a midget working as a narcotics agent, undercover division. 
On Christmas morning, as I celebrate Mass, a restless wino will be sitting in the front pew; and for some obscure reason, he will switch seats at least a half-dozen times during the service. At the Sign of Peace, he will insist upon shaking hands with every Catholic in the church, even those who 
obviously despise restless winos, but don't know how to evade this worshipper's zeal. With peripheral vision, I will see the proper ladies staring with horror at the hand the wino has touched, as though that hand had just wiped the nose of a leper. 
At Communion-time, a drunken man dressed as Santa Claus will come to the altar rail. He will be so drunk, he will notice that I have passed him by with the Eucharist. He will continue to kneel there until long after the Mass is over. Eventually, the pastor will call a policeman to lead him out of the church before the next Mass begins. I will hope that the children do not see Santa Claus led off by the law, drunkon the steps of the chureh. 
In the afternoon, when the Masses are over, the doorbell will begin to ring; and if I am the priest on duty, I will answer the door to people claiming needs who know you are a professional Christian, and that Scrooge couldn't refuse an alkms on Christmas. I can only say that the deserving poor are never less lovable than when they are being sarcastic over your inability to make their dream of Christmas green with money you don't have. Drunks are at their wittiest when they are com­menting on your refusal of the price for turkey, and I know monsignors who should study their example as lessons on how to be self righteous. 
On Christmas Day, faced with the needs of the poor of a New York rectory, or remembering the needs of studnets who suffer, or thinking with love of a mother, brother~ sister, all of us separated from the other, I will wish I could invite the world to a party. I will wish I knew how to gather the needy ones around the manger whereon the Lord entered the kingdom of our lonely world. But, of course, each man must find his own way to the manger. No one gets hijacked to Bethlehem except on the shoulders of the Son of God. 
So, Lord, in this year when I would like to give a holiday party in Times Square, what I really need to understand is that in the lifetime of God, there are always parties, and the day is always 
[ iiJlrr Q!nlnntal­lfanrakt -nust 
"Enioy a snack or dinner" 
35 Varieties of Pancakes Chicken -Steak -Sandwiches 
U.S. 31 (Dixieway) North Your Host (Across from Holiday Inn) Bob Edwards '50 

Christmas, just as it is always Good Friday and Easter as well. More than this world dreams of, more than Forty-second street tells, there are daily celebrations for the sons and daughters who have returned home to their Father's house. Everywhere there are sounds as sweet as Christmas 
carols when words of love are spoken, even while the violins are tuning up and the fatted calf roasts on the spit. 
What I really need to remember, when I am touched by the shab­biness of life on Christmas Day, is that the Lonely God of whom I write is also the Lord of those who dance; and that Christmas is the overture and invitation to the great dance in which all men move rhythmically before the Lord in all manners of motion, from the joyous jigs of grace to the slow, to the doorsteps of Forty-second >treet and the homes were your fathers and mothers are waiting. 
I am sure I could give a lovely party in Times Square this year, but who needs it? As Darby O'Gill says: Don't forget to write: we never said we didn't love you. 
Merry Christmas! 


turn your books into christmas 
presents 
It's easy -when you finish with your books, you trade them in for cash I Then go out and blow it on your friends and family. -­
Whether you end up one fat Santa or a little short depends on how many books 
you've got to sell, what condition they're in, and whether or not there's a 
need for them nationwide. 
Whatever you want to use the money for it will sure beat just letting them lie around collecting dust. So bring your books over to the professional book­buyers at the bookstore now, while your book is worth the most it will ever be. 

Walt too long and the chances are you may end up playing Scrooge! 
seD them lorcash at 
hammes-notre dame bookstore 
university of notre dame 
DECEMBER 13 14 
solemn cadences like the death march. 
So at this Christmas time of 1973. I greet you with love ... not as tht laureate of a lonely God, but as a twinkle-toed hoofer of the heart, working in the chorus of the dancing God Whose stage stret­ches from Bethlehem and infinity 16 the observer Friday, December 7, 1973 

:1 
'way down yonder •
.. • • 
I 
I 


· New Orleans. Founded in 1718 by Bien­ville on a crescent in the Mississippi River, the city has since been nicknamed "The Crescent City." A curious blend of French, Spanish and Indian influences, New Orleans still maintains a European flair 170 years after the Louisiana Purchase. 
Probably the most famous part of the city is the French Quarter. Originally named the Vieux Carre (the Old Square) the Quarter is bounded by Canal, Esplanade, North Ramparts Street and the River. This area of some 100 square blocks, narrow streets, and long buildings is renowned for its restaurants, bars, musicians, and ar­tists. 
The French Market, at one time the center of the Vieux Carre, still serves as an open market in the early morning hours, but today it is more known for its coffee stalls. The best are Morning Call and the Cafe du 
Monde. Neither ever closes, and it is a New 
coffee and donuts at dawn is a new orleans tradition 
Orleans tradition to go for coffee and donuts during the first hours of the morning. These are not orginary coffee and donuts, however. The coffee is flavored with chicory or just about anything else you might want. The Fi-ene~ donuts, properly called beignets, are served hot and are covered with powdered sugar. From the sidewalk patio of the Cafe du Monde you can have your picture painted or sketched, but be forewarned that prices can be stiff. The 
J 
-~~ II 
u liB1M_E 
l 
I } 
( 
l \ 
( 
' 
J 
1 
' I \ 
artists themselves are a storehouse of in­formation about what is happening in the city, legal and otherwise, but they expect a certain indemnity for their trouble. 
Don't bother with the buggy rides that originate in Jackson Square--unless you get a rare driver, he won't be able to point out many sites. Do , however, rent a bike from Billy's Bike Boutitique, and scrutinize the city from a two-wheeler. Billy can be reached at 522-8271, but bikes (as well as horses) are also available in Audubon Park. 
America's oldest cathedral, St. Louis Cathedral, faces Jackson Square from Chartres Street. On either side of it are buildings of the State Museum. The Presbytere on the right originally served as a residence for the clergy of the cathedral. On the Catheral's left is the Cabildo. It once housed the Spanish Colonial government. Now used as museums, the Presbytere and the Cabildo house an assortment ranging from the costumes worn at Mardi Gras for over 100 years to the cannons of Jean Lafitte. 
The Quarter itself is a gastronomical delight. Antoine's on St. Louis Street has been one of the world's most famous restaurants since 1840. It is a classy place specializing in French foods. The wine list is extensive and prices soar, of course, but so does the quality of service and food. 
Galatoire's Restaurant on Bourbon Street 
offers French and Creole cuisine. The old­
fashioned decor and excellent service make 
for delightful atmosphere. 
Other places with a European accent include Arnaud's on Bienville, for Creole food, and the Court of Two Sisters on Royal Street, also featuring French and Creole cuisine. Meals are served in the famous Courtyard of inside. One of the Court's specialities is breakfast served in the old traditional Plantation manner. 
The Progresso, across from the French Market, serves, mufalottos, an Italian sandwish of ham, cheese and crushed olive sauce. Mufalottos are only about a dollar and make a tasty lunch. 
Other dining spots are the Gumbo Shop on St. Peter's Street and Houlihan's Old Place 
the beguiling streets of the quarter are filled with tourists, actors, musicians. prostitutes, painters and crooks 
on Bourbon. Houlihan's is good for oysters and just about any type of seafood. Bren­nan's is noted for its expansive breakfast, but some patrons feel the quality has fallen off in recent years. 
The beguiling streets of the Quarter are filled with tourists, actors, musicians, off­duty strippers, writers, prostitutes, painters and crooks. It's a good idea not to walk alone through the French Quarter, but it's not dangerous at any hour if you're in a crowd. If alone, be prepared to be accosted by drunks, gays, street-walkers, boors and other assorted derelicts. 
The Crescent City is not lacking in en­tertainment. The legal age is eighteen and most nightclubs welcome students. Reservations are necessary at some of the better and more expensive places like AI Hirt's and Pete Fountain's. It's also a good idea to be sure that Hirt and Fountain are playing on the nights you intend to go. Hirt plays Monday, Thursday, Friday and 
... 
)V LJljL~l L_g l T~~~ g/ u Q 
~ ~~T 
MUNICIPAL :::> I z ~ .z
OJ~~QJUJ[<{I
;:::=:::::;-, 
AUA!TORIUM ST CLAUDE u ~
i IN A SIN 
1.._1____. 
D 
~ I 0 [][]c(BV"I
~EGARO/".f-DQ~ o ~ w 
(N RAMPARJ1 ,...1--,1 ,...(--,1 d~ N RAMPART 1.-' m 
Saturday. Fountain's schedule is not as predictable. 
Pat O'Brien's is the home of the famous Hurricane. The drink is served in glasses shaped like hurricane lamps which are given away as souvenirs. O'Brien's offers nightly entertainment with pianists and vocalists. 
All of the places mentioned here are quite 
conscious of their images. Obnoxious drunkness is frowned upon, especially by the bouncers who have no qualms about roughly ejecting anyone. 
Uptown there are the college bars, frequented by the Tulane crowd and students from LSUNO. Friar Tuck's on S. Claiborne is just off of the Tulane campus. Prices are lower than in the French Quarter. The usual Tulane crowd will be on vacation so you may squeeze in. The Library--you won't feel so far away from ND here-on Elysian Fields, is a little classier than Friar Tuck's. Nearby is the Barrell which is decorated like an English pub. We recommend this one, for prices are reasonable and the crowd is generally out just to have a good time. 
Don't miss the jazz places while you're in New Orleans. Economy Hall located in the Royal Sonesta Hotel houses the Un­derground Jazz nightclub. The groups are well-known and always good. Th.:re is a cover charge of $1.75 and drinks run ove; a dollar and a half. 
Armand Hug plays at the Esplanade Lounge in the Royal Orleans Hotel on St. Louis Street, one of the most elegant en­tertainment centers, and prices are set accordingly, but the cocktails and hors d'oeuvres are among the best in the city. The Lounge usually requires a coat and tie be worn during the evening. 
Heritage Hall on the Rue Bourbon features traditional New Orleans Jazz.The New Jazz Museum on Conti Street presents 
don't miss the jazz in new orleans 
a live performance as well as a preserved history of Jazz. 
New Orleans offers a host of other at­tractions. The area between the River and St. Charles Street is known as the Garden District. Here there are streets and streets of antebellum homes complete with the long veranda and high white columns. Oc­casionally tours of the houses and gardens are provided, so call the New Orleans Tourist Commission for more information. 
From Jackson Square you can walk towards the river. On the levee is Moonlight Walk, a good place to view the river or stroll in the moonlight. Two riverboats operate daily tours of the river itself. For a slight fee, the Mark Twain or the President will take you either up or down the river. There are short excursions 
designed to show you the city from the river. Or you can take a longer afternoon cruise which goes up into the bayous where Cajun 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------~----------------------------------------------------------------------------­

The harvest of Louisiana's coastal and o//shore water is more than evident on the tables of New Orleans' restaurants. Almost since the days ot eh city's founding when French, Spanish, African and Indian cooking skills combined to form Creole cuisine, seafoods have The Cornstalk House, a pre-Civil War Home in the Garden District of New Orleans is famous for the "Cornstalk Fence" which surrounds it. The fence was uproot~d from a hom11 in the Viewc Carre and moved to this home. 
been its basis. 
life is much the same as it was a hundred years ago. 
Everyone should see Lake Pontchartrain while in New Orleans. The Lake Shore is the place for the city's lover. There is also an amusement park which boasts the Zephyr­one of the highest roller coasters anywhere. Picnic tables, benches and a seawall are located along the Lake for plain relaxation. 
Both the City Park and Audubon Park are worthwhile attractions. The City Park offers the regular park attractions as well 
at the dueling oaks, gents of a day gone by settled their differences 
as the Dueling Oaks where feuding gen­tlemen! once settled their differences. Audubon Park, named for John James Audubon, includes a zoo as well as a levee in 
in nevv orleans 
by j. r. baker 

Photos courtesy of the New Orleans Tourist Commission 
the park that provides a good view of the 
•·iver and part of the city. 
Be sure to see the cemetaries in New 0.-leans. Just catch the Cemeteries Bus on Canal Street. The tombs are above ground because the water table is so high that graves below the ground would produce stench anq floating corpses. In one of the cemeteries at the end of Canal Marie LeVeaux is buried. For those of you not up on magic, Madam LeVeaux was a real life Voodoo Queen. 
On Orleans Street is the Salle D'Orleans. Here in the last century many of the naughty Quadroon Balls took place. At these balls, virginal quadroons were offered by their mothers as concubines to the young white men of the city. Once a gentleman selected a quadroon or two, or three-he set her up for life in a section of the town. A hundred years ago, Thomy Lafon-a fr~ man of color-bought the ballroom and donated it to the Sisters of the Holy Family. It was then turned into a Negro orphanage and the ballroom itself was used as a chapel. 
Public transportation is quite good in New Orleans. Both busses and streetcars are available. For fiteen cents you can go anywhere in the city or surrounding suburbs. 
The weather at New Year's in New 0.-leans is mild and balmy. The average temperature is 57 degrees. An un1brella isn't a bad idea, although generally there are (\nly four to ten rainy days in December. 
Louisiana weather, however, like South Bend's, is unpredictable. New Orleans has sometimes been labeled 
as the city of sex and sin. Whether that's true or not it's a fun city. Only don't men­tion to any lSU people that you're from ND. 
.A few hints: If you don't want to sound like the average tourists. Natives of the City say New Orleans with thr~ slurred syllables, not New Or-lee-ans, not New New Orleens. Also don't ask for praa-leens. They pronounce it prawlines. And never say "pee-ean." Louisians say it with a short e. 
Bon voyage. 

In the umembellished atmosphere of such places as Preservation Hall (above) and Jackson Square in New Orleans is a comfortable spot to stop stop for a few minutes on a Heritage Hall in New Orleans some of the greatest traditional jazz In the world is played. walking tour of the French Quarter--and it is probably the best place to stop because It Every night visitors to these "donation halls" work their way in to sit on rustic benches and remains the hub of the old city jam into corners. 
-.~ 
--·--------------------------------~------~----------------~ 

) 18 Friday, December 7, 1973
the observer
) 
~ 
Christmas lights bring spirit to downtown Salt Lake City 
SALT LAKE CITY (UPI) ­Deciding Christmas lights at home are more important than energy shortages elsewhere, Salt Lake City commissioners have ordered downtown decora­tions lit Monday night. 
The lights, which normally go on the night after Thanks­giving, had been scheduled to be shut off on Dec. 14 because of the energy crisis. 
But the commissioners moved the time up five days at the 
request of Marilee Latta of the Downtown Merchants Associa­tion, who said they would bring Christmas spirit to the area. 
Commissioner Stephen Harmsen agreed, noting there is no local threat of electrical shortages this winter. 
Commissioner James Barker said leaving the Christmas lights off would be similar to asking Salt Lakers to go hungry one day a week because there is a famine in India. 

cause problems for the retarded 
(continued from page 9) 
l 
a playgroup for the young child at Logan Center which gives the children an opportunity to be with other children of a similar achievement level." 
Other services include a 
Homestart teacher, a speech therapist, an occupational therapist and a parent's group. 
At age five, Joel will enroll in Logan School which recognizes the needs of slow learners and in­structs accordingly. Weekday academic and physical education include reading, writing, spelling, swimming and speech and hearing. 

Saturdays the less severly retarded children like Joel par­ticipate in the ND-SMC Council for the Retarded Recreation program offering arts and crafts, gym, swimming and sing-a-long. Coordinators Jay Long, pre-med senior, and Klem Bartosik, a sociology major, include parties, field trips to the Brookfield Zoo, a farn1 and ND football and hockey games on the agenda. Bowling, basketball, swimming and musical lessons are sponsored during the week. 
"There's no doubt that without student volunteers' help we 
ij ;; wouldn't be able to accomplish what we have," sayd Locke. "We have no funds to replace the volunteers." 
I 
Upon graduation from Logan this will allieviate the common School between the ages of 16 and fear of "what happends to my child 18, Logan Industries social when I'm not here anymore to take 
workers will employ real and care of him." simulated jobs for preliminary assessment of his vocational skills. Other Changes
Directives preparing him for 
placement in competitive em­ployment will be set by PERC, the Program Evaluation and Review Committee, based on verbal, mathematical, perceptional and physical examinations. PERC comprises all those who have worked or will work with Joel, including doctors, and psychologists. 
A work-study program eases Joel's transition from school to Logan Industries by introducing schedules, regulations, contracts, and simulated work and by teaching other skills necessary for everyday living. 
Joel's choice of jobs at Logan Industries might range from collating and metering mail to color-keying brake cylinders to overhauling telephones. 
A community job such as bussing, housekeeping or main­tenance should follow Logan In­dustries. 
In reference to housing, his mother reveals that the CFR's residential services committee is investigating a group home or apartment living situation that will allow mentally retarded adults to live independently. She contends 
Beside the improvement in mental care and training in­stitutions, the new public attitude is manifested in federal legislative moves and community em­ployemnt increases. 
Effective January 1974 is a social security measure awarding benefits to mentally retarded invidividuals based on personal income, not on parent's income, thus allowing them to purchase independently. 
Mrs. Thorne reports community employment of the handicapped is on the upswing, although "there are never enough jobs." 

Paintings, Graphics, Sculpture, Photography and Drawings. Discriminating Gfts from the area's leading artists 
Ground Floor 100 Center Mishawaka, Indiana 
256-0701 

~::::::x>:::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::~x~.:.:.:.:>:::~~~:~:~:;:~:~:;:~:~:;:~:i."*:!:;:::~::::::::::::::::l:::~::::::::::~:::::::;:;; 
j~j~ Merry Christmas. :~~~\ 
·=·: from ····· 
I I 
I I 
~DERSHEM MOTORSI 
f:!? ,'t'*********************** ~~~j
1· ~CHRISTMAS BONUS!t ~~\:
:-:· * * :-:·· 
:~~~· * $1 00 off anv car '* :~~~ 
::;: ••*********************...; ::::
~)~) We also have a 12 month ~!~~ jj~\ guarantee on all cars il~l 
t::::::::::~:h:~::::~:~:~:~:~11::~:::::::!Jgggg~:~:i:Jl:Y::RH:g:g1'===========~; 
School house Too 
In the Brewery 100 Center Complex Mishawaka, Ind. Phone -259-8181 

The midwest's most complete needlepoint shop 
SPECIAL: 10 percent discount upon presentation of student I D HOURS: MONDAY-SATURDAY, 10am-9pm 
SUNDAY, 12 m-6 m 
HOUIIS. MON • lUES -lHUit -... 
f AM 5rJtM WID -14T 9 AM 12 NOON 
COMPLm: WIJCI'ACU

RoGERS 
SEIIVICE 
AU f'I"E 01.'S ~IPTIOHS HOHOat

Optical 
C..lt 
119-7109 


STUDENT UNION INVITES YOU TO 
ACAPULCO 
8 DAYS, 7 NITES MARCH 11-18 DIRECT FROM CHICAGO VIA AMERICAN AIRLINES 
$245 includes 
-Round trip jet transportation 
-Meals served in flight each way 
-Transfers & baggage handling 
-Preregistration of rooms 
-Half day yacht cruise on Acapulco Bay (with open bar) 

--7 nites lodging at beachfront hotel -All taxes and service charges. 
! 
RESERVATIONS NOW BEING TAKEN AT S.U. TICKET OFFICE. $30 DEPOSIT (CHECKS ONLY) PAYABLE TO S.U. SPRING TRIP. DEPOSITS DUE BY DEC. 14 
• for further information call 7789. 
r::_..:_i~ay, December :....7~,::..:19.:..:73:______t:...:h_:_e.=--=o:...::b=-=-s-=e_:_r_:v_:e:..:r:____l::_9_:_ 
The modern way 
Nuclear power: fighting the energy crisis 
(continued from page 11) 
ONE OF THE MAJOR CON­
CERNS of people on both sides of 
the Cook plant issue is what the 
effect on the ecology in and around 
Lake Michigan will be. 
According to John J. Risser, 
assistant director of the Notre Dame Radiation Lab, almost two­thirds of the heat generated at the plant goes into the lake instead of to the turbines. This problem is not unique to nuclear plants, though. 
Kiander noted that most power 
plants are located near some body 
of water, not just because of 
hydroturbines, but also because of 
the need for a coolant in steam 
turbine plants. 
In reference to the Cook plant, 
Kiander said, "We are limited by 
the Michigan Department of 
Natural Resources to an area 
equal to 833 acres for our mixing 
zone, 3400 feet from the point of 
discharge, the temperature of the 
water cannot be more than three 
degrees higher than the ambient 
temperature of the lake." She 
added that the plant expected to have to utilize only 570 acres as a mixing zone, or about two-thirds the alloted area. 
Another controversial point 
involves radiation discharged into 
surrounding areas. Information 
supplied by the Cook plant states 
that little or no radioactive water 
will be returned to Lake Michigan. 
In fact, the sun will put more 
radioactivity into the water than 
the plant will. 
By law, a nuclear plant can not 
disdtarge radioactive wastes into 
the air. Because a nuclear plant 
burns no fuels, it has no 
smokestacks and discharges 
nothing. 
However, as Risser pomted out, the law is not uniform in that it says nothing about fossil-fueled plants. Risser stated that about one part in every million of fossil fuel is radioactive. Therefore, a plant that burns 20,000 tons fo coal a day burns about two pounds of r·adioactive fuel. In short, a fossil fuel plant puts more radioactivity into the air than a nuclear plant does. 
ANOTHER OF THE AD­VANTAGES that nuclear power has over coal is that one pound of uranium ore can produce as much energy as three million pounds of coal, without giving off any waste such as smoke or soot. However, coal is much more plentiful, with reserves expected to last from 300 to 700 years. Uranium reserves are only guaranteed for about 50 years. 
Although the known sources of uranium in this country are ex­pected to last only about 50 more years, scientists hope to perfect "breeder" reactors in the near future, says Risser, to alleviate the nuclear shortage. A breeder is a type of reactor which will, simply, make larger amounts of uranium from smaller amounts. 
OPPONENTS OF THE NUCLEAR PLANTS can cite the Atomic Energy Commission's own surveys to support their arguments. According to an AEC r·eport released this year, a total failure of all safety systems in a plant near a large city cold result in as many as 45,000 deaths and up to $17 billion in property damage. 
As all nuclear plant information be sealed and stored. along with a malfunction of the points out, an explosion is im­Should a situation arise where, control rod devices, then a possible due to an insufficient at the end of the year, a leak in the catastrophe could occur. amount of radioactiive material. main system is followed by a However, the chances of all 
However, because fission occurs, there is some radioactive material in the reactor. 
As fission occurs in the reactor, the uranium becomes radioactive at the rate of about 1 per cent per y.-.ar. The center third of the 96-ton uranium core is removed and disposed of once a year, but it is more radioactive at the end of the year than at the beginning. Usually a chemical company will reprocess the element and recover close to 99 per cent of it. The radioactive one per cent will then 
Student Union 

failure of both the primary and systems failing at once like this is second8ry safety cooling units quite slim, AEC officials assure. 


(7354) for ticket sale in­formation••• 

GIFT IDEAS FROM 
iii!Si!lllli 
From Portuga I Natural polished hardwood 
7 piece kitchen set 
$8.00 
J 
From Denmark, the famous Nssen hardwood wine racks. 

6 Bottle SI0.50 
10 Bottle $14.50 
12 Bottle $21.95 
20 Bottle S29.95 

Time told by a dot. 

A great combination • sollc maple but­Beautifully. From cher block and Sabietier Knives 
the design collection 
of the Museum of Knives for all uses, carbon or stainless 
Modern Art 
executed by the 
HOWARD MILLER 
$2.80 to $16.50 

CLOCK CO. Battery 
wall clock, glass 
Butcher Blocks from

crystal, 12 3-4" diameter. The ideal present. $103.40 
$39.50 
Other Howard Miller 
Clocks from $16.95. 
Perfect drip coffee comes from CHEMEX Coffeemakers. 
Plus all the Chemex accessories in­cluding the new carafes and warmers. 
$7.95 to $15.95 
contemporary design 1n home furnishings 








----------------------~ -----~---~-­

• 

( 
-

-~----­
~ 1 R ""'--L-",..... --­
~ 20 the observer Friday, December 7, 1973 
CLASSIFIED ADS
Notre Dame's icers face 
rugged holiday schedule 
by John Fineran 
Ah! Finally! Snow. You know Christmas is not far behind. And while most of us students will be enjoying the holiday season at home;·18nother group of students, the Notre Dame hockey team, will not be able to enjoy the Christmas break as much. The Irish icers begin tonight a to-game schedule which will span the next 'n days. Michigan is the first hurdle for Lefty Smith's 3-6-t Irish. The to­,-. game slate ends January 11 and t2 in the Rockies as the Irish take on Denver, a team with which they split in the A.C.C. last weekend. 

In between, Notre Dame plays eight straight home games with Central Collegiate Hockey Association power St. Loiuis providing the bookends. The Irish Play St. Louis a week from tomorrow, December t5, in the A.C.C., and the Billikens come in for another visit Wednesday, January 9. 
The Notre Dame team bus has already left for Ann Arbor. Hopefully, the fuel shortage and the current truckers' slowdown on the highways won't create problems to the Irish making the 8 
p.m. faceoff with Michigan. (WNDU (1490) will carry both tonight's and tomorrow evening's games at that hour). The Wolverines as a much-improved club, will present enough problems themselves. 
"Michigan is tOO per cent im­proved over last season," Smith said. Indeed they are because last season, the Wolverines finished in the WCHA's cellar with an overall 5-28-1 mark. This season already Michigan has matched last season's entire win-production against four losses and a tie. Much of the credit should go to new head coach, Dan Farrell, a former assistant to John Macinnes at Michigan Tech. 
Farrell has some notable talent in sophomore goalie Robbie Moore, defensemen Tom Lindskog and Randy Trudeau and forwards Don Fardig, Angie Moretto and Randy Neal. Already this season, the Wolverines have pulled off two coups, victories over Wisconsin and state-rival Michigan State. 
Smith's Irish will be at full strength for the first time since the Wisconsin series. Tri-captain Ian Williams returns from a misconduct suspension, and All­America defeuseman Bill Nyrop returns to-pounds lighter after a bout with the flu. 
The forward lines will be shuf­fled a little bit. Or course, the Pat Conroy-Larry Israelson-Ray DeLorenzi line remains intact, tri­captain Ric Schaefer and Eddie Bumbacco will be joined by Williams and Brian Walsh will center Clark Hamilton and Alex Pirus. The last trio is an all­freshmen one. Tim Byers, Pat Novitzki and Mike Tardani will be the penalty killers. 
Tri-captain Steve Curry heads the defense and will pair-up with freshman Jack Brownschidle. 
t'A~rtL t'Ut<lt<AII~ 
a unioue g,ft 
from color photos SlS 
PICTURE FRAMING 
reasonabl f pr1ced 
ERICA'S 
on the baicony of 
Thieves Market 2309 E. Edison Sat. and Sun. 10-6 
Nyrop and freshman Paul Clarke will be another duo as will Les Larson and freshman Roger Bourque, who impressed in last Sunday's overtime win. Mark Kronholm will resume his customary spot between the pipes during the weekend. 
St. Louis (the dates mentioned before) is currently 7-2 this season. 
The Billikens and Irish have met before in the finals of last season's ECAC Holiday Hockey Festival in Madison Square Garden, and St. Louis skated away with a 5-3 win. Coach Bill Selman has outstanding goaltenders in Ralph Kloiber and Carl Sapinsky, and his forwards are led by Rick Kennedy (96 points last year), Job Nestic (83), Dave Davies (78), and Sean Coughlan (72). 
Last year, Eddie Bumbacco humbled Michigan's Robbie Moore. Tonight, Moore would like to turn the tables, and he's having the kind of season which might enable him to do just that. Bumbacco, on the other hand, has been struggling this year. 
Harvard and Boston College, two Eastern powers, will skate into the A.C.C. December 29 and 30 respectively. It will be Notre Dame's first meeting with the Ivy League Crimson, and the Irish will be out to avenge last year's 11-4 loss to Golden Eagles. The 8C-ND series is knotted at 3-3. 
Minnesota-Duluth, winless in six contests in the WCHA this year, will come into the A.C.C. for a pair of games January 4 and 5. Each will count for two points in the league race. The Bulldogs of Terry Shercliffe have an outstanding goaltender in Jerome Mrazek. 
So while the first ten games have been turned up nothing but coal for the Irish, Notre Dame has a chance to change all that into gold this holiday season. 
~~fL: 
~-n. 'W ~--{:;
v -..... 
259-2023 100 Center Mishawaka, Ind. 

Many beautiful & unusual gift Items 

Thursday and Friday December 6th and 7th 7 md 10p.m. -Eng. Aud. Admission $1.00 
~CLA:I'URAL AAT8 CDMIVUI8ICN 
10% OFF ON TIRES & REPAIRS 
Buy Snow Tires Now While the Selection Is Still Good 
Goldblatts Tire Center In the Town & Country Shopping Center 822 W. McKinley 259·6161 
LOST & FOUND 
Lost: Acoutron watch; in­scription JPJ 12-25-72. 
Reward. 1579. 

Lost: class ring '75, It. blue stone "Mike Diner" inside. Reward. No questions asked. 1470. 
Lost; set of keys on "Lovebug". Call 7409. 
Lost: Government and philosophy notebooks in library. Reward. No questions asked. Am doomed without them. Jim 1874. 
Found: black frame glasses outside Dillon Call 1272. 
NOTICES 
From Cleveland or Detroit and looking for a ride to the Sugar Bowl? Call Dan at 282-1568. 
Kill ugly radio. Volunteers needed to help. Bring progressive rock & roll back to WRBR. Come to Pandora's, 602 N St. Lou~e and sign up. Organization meeting to be announced. People to petition, rap, put up posters, money too. 
California Club -check in at travel agency to see if you were one of the first -40 to sign up or if you desire your refund, as soon as possible. LA charter & SF group rate canceled. LA group rate TWA still available. 
LONDON SHOW TOUR: March 9-17,1974,5424 from SS­Includes air, accomodations, tlx. $100 deposit due Feb 1, 1974. Call Sister Jean Kiene 284-4516. 
Students from New Mexico and the Southwest: Let's help each other get home for Christmas. If you have room in your car, or need a ride, call 7833, leave name and date you can travel. 
Morrissey Loan Fund can loan up to $150 at 1per cent interest, 1 day waiting period. Basement of LaFortune. 11:15­12:15, Mon-Frl. 
Got books you don't want? Come to pandora's from 2:30· 
3:30 
and we'll buy them, paperbacks or textbooks. 602 

N. 
St. Louis. 



Have your bicycle winterized. Will not rust, even if left out all winter. Call 272-8697. 
Rides from Indy or Louisville to New Orleans for Sugar Bowl. SSO round trip, leave 12-8 return Jan 1; call (317)257-0628. 
Having trouble finding a hotel room in New Orleans for the Sugar Bowl? Problem solved ­call Chris 272-9595 for a con­firmed reservation at Hotel Roosevelt. 
Logan Volunteers: Last Saturday rec of semester I If you can't make It please contact someone who is going for info about Christmas party. 
Free folk concert In Flanner's America -Friday 7:30 -1:30 
See Lady Macbeth in the nudeI Monday night at the engineering auditorium. 
The Company of the Ring leaves Rlvendell, headed South. (Dec. 25) Mardi Gra·s '74 : The Master of Middle Earht 
THE BEATLES: An Informal four hour history from the days of the jellybabies to the days of Apple. Sunday night: 10 pm tlll2am. WSNDam-6..oWSND fm; 88.9 
FOR SALE 
MEERSCHAUM PIPES! Exceptional values, per­sonalized service. Catalog. 
PMP Co. Sox oUt. Gaither· sburg, MD 20760. 
IMPORTED NERCURY WATCHES 1-17 jewels, 3 styles, 
perpetual  cahmdar.  
Guaranteed.  $13.50-515.  Call  
Frank 3119.  

Selling out to get married. Best offer on: Max. reg. frig., red shag 9'x12', chest of drawers. chair, bookShelves. Call Mike 8183. 
Stereo turntable, 8 track, speakers, receiver. Used 1 semester. 1067. 
10-speed bike for sale. Cheap. Asking SSO. John 8549. 
• 
• 
HAPPY 21stBIRTHDAY P. Ill Special K, Big reel, Little Toot+ Ugh. 
Hart Javelins, marker rotomat, simplex toe. anti­friction plate boots. 291-6933. 
Mini refrigerator, excellent condition. Best offer. Call 232­6798 after 6. 
For some of the best Christmas gifts in town at the best prices in town come by pandora's 602 
N. St. Louis from 10 to 7 every day. 
Turquoise jewelry for Xmas gifts. Reasonable! Drop by 209 Pangborn or call 8373. 
FOR RENT 
4 BR house, recreation room, study, fireplace, wall to wall carpet, just renovated, com­pletely furnished. Jan. semester or immediate oc­cupation. All Brasseur 289­2461. 
One bedroom apartment near Notre Dame. Furnished nicely. Rate:; quite reasonable. Call after 6:00, Mrs. Kenelly, 233-«87. 
WANTED 
Keypuncher wanted -must be experienced & quick-can work your own hours . Begin now, job lasts til Jan 15. Min. 20 hrs wk -$2.50 hr. 272-8857. 
Hockey shinguards & helmet. Call Roe 1416. 
Give a former domer a break . he's in Law School, she's in grad school in St. Louis. They need 2 Sugar Tickets. 4712, 8472. 
Need Sugar Bowl tix. New fair offers rejected. Call 3157. 
Need 2 adjacent Sugar Bowl tickets. $$ Ken 3797. 
Will return from north NJ on 7 Jan. need riders. Call Leo 232­2721. 
Need riders from Evansville, lnd area to Sugar Bowl. Call Janet 4163. 
Wanted: one or two tickets to Sugar Bowl, call 6716. 
PERSONALS 
Christmas Joy and Peace to the Holy Spirit, the Pontiff, his Mistress, the Illegitimate Son, Agony in the Garden, Bodily Death, the Defender of the Faith & Songs-be-Heard. Love, Anti-Christ. 
~appy Birthday AMD.. I'd stop t1me, but I'm dying to be corrupted. WCH. 
A very merry Christmas and a ver happy New Year to all my kids. Love you, "Observer" Mom 
Poor domer (knute) selling all worldly possessions to finance trip to Sugar Bowl. Experience the thrill of helping someone less fortunate than yourself. See "For Sale" section for details. 
Ex-Farleyites: Come to the Chrlstmu Talent Show Friday at 7:30 in the Farley Hall Chapel. Featuring Pop Farley and the Dem Poem singers. 
" 
Who picked up my parka last week lunch. I have yours. Bill 8705. 
RIDES WANTED 
Need ride to NYC area. Frl, Dec. 21. Call 4275. 
Need ride to Cleveland, Can leave Wed., Dec. 19. Call Greg 7065. 
Need ride Dec. 27 from Erie, PA to Chicago area. Share $$. Call Phil 1023. 
Need ride to Pittsgurgh Dec. 21, call Sob . 3451. 
Need ride Champaign, 111, leave late afternoon Dec. 20 or Dec. 21. Share$, Call Jim 1-409. 
Are you looking for a ride from Detroit or Cleveland to the Sugar Bowl? I am driving, need riders to Share expenses, and can get you a motel room if you want. Call Dan at 282-1568 if you are interested. 


Friday, December 1, 1973 the observer 
IU, Kentucky top ND cage slate 
"They're the number three team in the country," offered Digger. "What else can I say? Bobby Knight is a very good coach, he's 
by Greg Corgan 
The holiday season traditionally done an excellent job down there,
means a time of goodwill, high spirits, and lots of gift-giving. and they have a fine basketball 
team."
Hopefully, for Digger Phelps and One of the reasons they do is
his crew tradition won't be broken as the Irish cagers look ahead to a because backcourt aces Quinn 
Buckner and Jim Crews, along
tough six-game vacation schedule. It would be in keeping with the 
with forward Steve Green are back for the '73-'74 campaign. Add to
Christmas spirit indeed if St. 
this freshman Kent Benson (6-11),Louis, Indiana, Denver, Kentucky, Xavier, and Georgetown were all 
last year's Indiana high school to offer the Irish a little goodwill, "Mr. Basketball," and prep All­and a few gifts of their own. For 
America Scott May {6-6), and the certainly ND could come up with 
term · "fine basketball team" the high spirits to make the could be an understatement. 
package complete and give Irish "We'll have to play an errorless basketball fans a little (9-o'/) treat game," added Phelps. "We'll have 
heading into the battle with UCLA. to be tough on the boards, and play But while this may be the season pressure defense. Most im­of good tidings, and good cheer, if portantly we'll have to be mentally the ND hoopsters are to keep that prepared." 
zero on the right side of their The Irish may be looking for­record (which incidentally has ward to the Hoosiers, but after that become fashionable in Notre Dame 
one they can't afford to overlook 
sports this year) they'll have to the Denver Pioneers. DU comes exhibit some Ebenezer Scrooge­into town Thursday night, Dec. 20, like characteristics when it comes and with them they bring ten 
to returning the favors. 
returning lettermen including four "I'm not happy at all with the starters from a '72-'73 squad which performance of our team at Ohio 
posted a 17-9 record. Mter a short Christmas break,
State considering the 21 turnovers the Irish once again take to thewe had," commented Phelps. 
road to face thirteenth-ranked"We've got to get it out of our Kentucky, Dec. 29 in Louisville.
system because we can't afford to The Wildcats are coming off agive up the ball that many times highly successful season of theirespecially when we have to play on own having posted a 20-8 record a
the road." "Georgetown should have a very will certainly come to town upset­semester will already have begun,
year ago including a 65-63 win over 
First of all, however they'll have good team," noted Phelps. "A lot minded and hopefully won't catch and the holidays will certainly beNotre Dame and a fine showing in 
to learn to be stingy with the of good ballplayers come out of the Irish looking ahead to their over. But maybe for Irish footballthe NCAA regionals. Head coach 
basketball right here at home. Washington, and Georgetown has a Jan. 19 meeting with the Bruins. and basketballJans alike, the spiritJoe B. Hall lost but two lettermen
Because this Saturday afternoon lot of them. (Coach) George of gift-giving will still be in the air.
from last year's squad although By the middle of January second
St. Louis comes into town to see if Thompson rs· a well-respected 
one of those losses was all-8EC and has a job
they can duplicate last year's 60-58 coach done fine 
center Jim Andrews.
victory. there." 
However, the 1973 SEC cham­
The Billikens have lost four of Thompson may be an excellent 
pions return four starters in­
last year's five starters including coach, hoever he can't do much of leading scorer and rebounder the playing. But the Hoyas aren't
cluding SEC Player of the Year Harry Rodgers, and a repeat of Kevin Grevey. Much of the scoring hurting there either, espec.iaJ1y 
Captain's Corner 
load will fall on Grevey, who had
last season's 19-7 mark may be with the likes of center Merlin difficult. Nonetheless, left behind an 18.7 scoring average last Wilson (6-9), the 14th leading 
season, but guards Jimmy Dan
was starting center Robin Jones rebounder in the country a year
Conner and Ronnie Lyons should
(6-10), and two other juniors, ·ago and GU's leading scorer, .:=:===================================================:=:::::::•:=:::::::=:~::::::::::::=:=:=:=:=:=== The way I feel 
take up some of the slack.
forwards Steve Walsh and Eric guard Jonathan Smith. This team 
Jones. Unlike the Irish, St. Louis Down in Louisville those Ken­Notre Dame 44, Miami 0. What a way to finish the season. The game coach Bob Polk's starting squad 
tucky folk like their Wildcats, and last Saturday night was really a great climax to a great year, and it does not include any freshmen. coach Phelps would much rather Hockey request seems like all of our work-from the end of August until now-has really tangle with them here in South paid off.
Seniors Charles Ries and James 
Brown (both 6-3) round out the first Bend. "It's that road schedule Our offense has jelled into a very explosive unit, and it is complimented five. again," explained Drgger, "down by an equally intimidating defense. But putting those things aside for a The Billikens hold a 14-12 series in Louisville in front of 18,000 Don Bouffard, Notre Dame's moment, it has been a truly great experience to be part of one of the 
people--it'll be tough. They've got ticket manager, yesterday better teams in Notre Dame's history.
edge over Notre Dame, and Digger 
Phelps is not one to take anybody some good-shooting people; requested that students attending Notre Dame. Those words mean a lot to me, and in the following lightly. "They're a big team," he Grevey, Connor, Lyons, they're all hockey games, especially in paragraphs I'd like to try to explain why. explained, "they've got real good 
good." •sections seven (7) and eight (8), Four years ago, when I first enrolled at Notre Dame, I was a rather size, and they shoot well. The But John Shumate, and company refrain from standing continuously innocent high school boy. While here, however, I've learned a lot about game's up here this year though aren't bad either, and should they throughout the entire game. myself athletically and socially, and have developed my whole outlook on 
Bouffard said he has had seven
and that could make a difference." get by those Wildcats from the life. By putting all of these things together I feel like I've really grown Unfortunately, one game that Bluegrass state, tl)ey'll have close instances of season-ticket holders into a well-rounded person.
·in section nine (9) complaining
isn't "up here" this year is next to a two week layoff before Xavier Athletically, I feel that I've gotten as much out of Notre Dame as was Tuesday night's encounter with 
of Ohio comes to town on the 12th of that they can not see the action at possible for me. The people I've met through football have had a major Bob Knight's Indiana Hoosiers. January. the far end of the rink due to impact on my athletic career and my life. Those people--mainly the Rated number three in the nation, Right beind them, and right in students standing. As a result, coaches and other players on our team-have reached deep into my
Bouffard has had to give them new
.front of UCLA, is Georgetown. athletic ability and have brought out the bE!st in me. their home crowd in Bloomington, They travel to So\lth Bend on the locations. Socially, I think this is what Notre Dame is all about: to be able to and even though they lost last 15th and although the Hoyas posted Bouffard, rather reluctantly, coexist with other people and discover what those people-from all parts year's Big Ten MVP, Steve a 12-14 record last year, they have said, "If students continue to of the country--are like. To be exposed to the different habits and ideas of Downing, they'll be tough to beat. 14 returning lettermen including stand, we'll have to move the other people I feel, is one of the greatest possible ways to become 
all five starters, four of them only student season tickets in sections 7 educated. 
sophomores. and 8 to section 11." The final-and, I feel, the most important-impression Notre Dame has had on me is that it has de\ eloped my overall outlook on life. To begin with, I feel now that as long as one has his health and his friends and loved ones, well, then he has the I asis of all that's really important. 
The reason I say this because money, fame, or material success the Hoosiers love to play befor e 
73 edition .may -well be the best 
doesn't seem worth a wh e lot if one doesn't also have health and a few close friends and comp. dons. haven't completed our film exchange with them, so So ~e thankful for yot health and your close friends because they are 
(Continued from page 22) 
we haven't had a chance to look at exactly what they very 1mp9rtant-they c~.l, at least, always help you out or help you battle 
do-other than in the Miami and LSU games. back against the touF cold world. intensity matched by very few games during his to­"And in the Miami films I was too busy watching In looking back, I'<i have to say that my four years here at Notre Dame year stay at South Bend. were tough years and that they were hard to cope with, but that they also 
Miami, and during the LSU game we had a houseful
"We have never before entered a bowl game," he held some of the greatest moments ofmy life. They were, at the same
of guests after Thanksgiving, and I could only get
said, "with an opportunity to win the National time, a lot of good times, and I would surely relive them if that were
away for a play or two at a time.
Championship outright. We almost won in 1971, when possible-but it's not, unfortunately.
"But they can throw the ball well, this much we do
we beat Texas in the Cotton Bowl, but then we needed So in closing, what I would like to say to all the freshmen, sophomores,
know. They bombed LSU with two long touchdown
a combination of things and a combination of upsets. and juniors, is: try to enjoy the rest of your college days and live them to 
passes, and we'll want to sit down and look at just how
"In this instance, the National Championship rests th~ f_ullest because you'll never get them back. One of the reasons I say
they do work the passing game from the wishbone." 
on the outcome of the Sugar Bowl game, and for the t~1s IS because there's no job on earth where you can get up at 11 o'clock
And it will take a long look, because the Crimson
first time we can control our destiny regardless of f1ve days a week-and then go out to have a good time two or three times a
Tide offense, led by QB Gary Rutledge, does pass well
what anyone else does." week. 
from the wishbone. And it runs very well from the So, as I've said before, count your blessings and enjoy them-for theyAra is aware, though, that guiding Notre Dame's wishbone. The '73 edition of the Crimson Tide may, in soon will come to an end.
eleventh-game destiny to a Sugar Bowl triumph will fact, be one of the Bear's best Alabama teams. 
I would, at this time, like to thank The Observer for giving me the op­be the most difficult task he's faced this season. 
But the same holds true for coach Ara Parseghian ~rtunity this year to write about our team in my own way. Also, I would 
"We're playing an Alabama team," he said, · and the '73 edition of the Fighting Irish. And that is hke to thank our whole Notre Dame family for all the help it has given us "which has bombed everyone it's played and which why the '73 edition of the Sugar Bowl may well be the during the 1973 football season. One left. has had success with the big play every time out. We one of the season's best college football games. Go Irish! Beat 'Bama. 
l 1 I I I 


~~--------------------------~--.........z..•a..................................
18 th..,. nhc:.A.•uor ~-:......... ,..... ___ -· .. -..._
-
12 
the observer Friday, December 7 1973 

by Pete McHugh period with the score knotted on eleven different occasions. With Mter an early scare by an in­2:25 remammg before in­spired Northwestern team, Digger termission, Shumate hit a short 
Phelps' Irish cagers took com­jumper to break a 35-35 deadlock. 
mand in the final two minutes of And then the Irish reeled off nine 
the first half and went on to streak straight points to break the game to a 98-74 victory last night ·in open.Evanston. Dwight Clay's jump shot at the Led by John Shumate's 30 points buzzer following a Wildcat score, 
and a tenacious full-court press, gave the Irish a 46-37 lead which Notre Dame sailed through the they never relinquished.final twenty minutes for their third Brokaw, the junior guard from victory of the season without a New Brunswick, New Jersey, hit 
setback. his season high with 22 pointsTex Winter's Wildcats kept the behind Shumate. Freshman affair close for most of the first Adrian Dantley scored 20 points for 
The Observer Sports Staff 
The Irish Eye 
. . . . . Christmas aihs 
The ChriStmas Sprrtt drifted mto South Bend more than a mon!li ago, on Thursday, October 25th, to be exact. 
Late that afternoon, as the Fighting Irish football team concluded one of its weekly pre-game cheer sessions, the strains of a well-known song drifted out of the canvas-enclosed confines of Cartier Field. The lyrics were different, ("The 12 Days of Christmas") but the tune was familiar to everyone: 
On the first set of down when SChad the ball, Potempa made Davis heave. On the second set of downs when SC had the ball, Swann dropped a pass, we broke his ... And so on it went. Now, though, as the first week in December draws to 
a close, the Christmas Spirit has spread far and wide beyond Cartier Field. It has even spread to the second floor of the LaFortune Student Center and to The Observer sports desk. 
And in keeping with the spirit of the season, The Observer's sports staff has rummaged through three months of game stories, features, and statistics, and come up with a Christmas gift list which should delight even the most discriminating Notre Dame sports ftgure. 
r 
U possible, the following personalities would find the following gifts waiting for them on the morning of December 25th: Ara Parseghian-A Bearskin rug, color-coordinated to go with his pair of Texas Loogboms. Johnny Wooden-A copy of Tiley can Me Digger, when ftnisbed on[ January 1Mb. Jerry carle, commissioner of WCHA officials-new ones. Bob Thomas-a sterling silver kicldng tee and the championship ring ;. he's so long desired. Brian Doherty-an ice-cold case of Bubble-Up to share with Thomas, his specialist sidekick. Defensive line coach Joe Yonto-10 boxes of Mark IV cigars and an 11th if things go well on New Year's Eve. Steve Niehaus-a leave of absence during the fourth week of the 1974 and 1975 football seasons. Notre Dame's student body-8ugar Bowl tickets and an "open bar" during post-game revelry at Pat O'Brien's. Mark Kronholm -fewer shots on goal; and, if that's too much to ask, the chance to hit a few of those shots back. 
Anthony Davis-an autographed copy of the cover of Sports Illustrated, the cover he shares with Ross Browner, Drew Mahalic, and Gary Potempa. 
Tom Fine-the complete collection of film reels from "The Andy Griffith Show" and "Andy of Mayberry." Dwight Clay-the hard-cover copy of his favorite manuscript: The Iceman Cometh. Mike Fanning-a long-playing album of "Merle Haggard's Greatest Hits." 
AI Conover, head football coach at Rice University-a pregame meal, courtesy Fathers Hesburgh, Joyce, and Riehle, at Corby Hall, and the chance to shake hands with every Catholic in Notre Dame Stadium prior to next year's ND-Rice game. 
Wayne Bullock-an 11-game Pittsburgh schedule. Notre Dame's hockey team-points in the WCHA standings. Steve Neece-a pair of boxing gloves for use the next time Miami comes 
to town. Fr. Riehle-a brief hiatus from his busy schedule so that he can attend 
at least one Notre Dame sporting event. Notre Dame's glass-tossing hockey fans-a touch of class. Luther Bradley-a OOtUe of Grecian Formula 16. Art Best-a parachute and a copy of Tile Great Escape. Jake Kline-another 500 Irish baseball victories. Eric Penick-a box of Kitty Litter. Dan Morrin-a year's supply of crossword puzzles. Ted Hesburgh-a congratulatory phone call from President Nixoo on 
the evening of December 31st. Frank Pomarico-a new car. ABC-TV-a Sugar Bowl broadcast team of Howard Coaell, Chris 
Schenkel, and Joe Sassano. Digger Pbelpa-tbe chance to tate over Johnny Wooden's fraocbile on Gilbert's commercials. 
Letty Smith-a redk:owboy bat witb a white ''W" embluoaed on the froot. Aod an away..from-bome sweep of Wiacwudn that'll mate him proud to bave it. 
Lola Walab and Pat SDiadecti, tbe bard-working secretaries in Notre 
Dame's Sports Information Office--a bouquet of roses each. Reggie Barnett-voice leaona. Lindsay Nelaon and Paul Hornuug-tbe cbance to "switch to /further 
action" for many seuons to come. 
Willie George, ND's bebemotb sbot and dlacus specialist-a year's supply ol body-building\protein and a subecriptioo to the mUIIcle and bealtb maguine of his choice. l 
ADd to tbese penooalities aDd to everyone elle-tbe Seuoo's Best. 

the night, but fouled out with five minutes left in the game. Dantley was too aggressive for the Big Ten referees as he garnered three offensive personals. 
Roy Martin, the diminutive freshman play-maker, had only a field goal in the score column but was responsible for many of the 21 Northwestern turnovers. Martin playing most of the second half: had numerous steals off the Irish press to frustrate the Wildcats. 
While both teams lapsed into scoring droughts, Shumate was consistently accurate throughout the action, hitting seven field goals each half. The junior center controlled the defensive boards in the second half, sparking fast­break scores to Brokaw and Dantley. Shue's 30-point per­formance is high for Notre Dame this year and followed a 25-point effort Tuesday against Ohio State. 
If the Irish were something less than "on-track" in the first half, they came on like banshees after intermission. With their "fast lineup" (Clay, Shumate, Dantley, Martin, Brokaw), Notre Dame pressed and fast-breaked the Wildcats out of McGaw Hall. 
In one stretch in the second half, Martin passed to Dantley for a short jump shot, stole a pass in the backcourt, and hit Brokaw for an easy layup. Mter a field goal by Northwestern's freshman phenom Billy McKinney, Dantley and Brokaw hit back-to-back field goals again. Brokaw came back after a Wildcat basket to score a three point play which gave the Irish a 20 point lead. 
McKinney kept the score respectable for Northwestern with nunterous scores from the 15-20 foot range. He led the Wildcats with 23 points while teammates Gary Brokaw exhibits classic jump.shot form. Brokaw leapt andBrad Cartwright and Bryan Ash­shot for a personal season high of 22 points last night against Nor­baugh added 18 and 12 points thwestern.

respectively. 

Season's best bowl game pits 'Bama, Fighting Irish 
by Vic Dorr Sports Editor 

. Theycropup every so often, peering,cautiously at 
first, out of a jungle of schedules, conference games 
and possible upsets. ' 
Eventually, though, they emerge from the jungle. They emerge wi~ boldness and verve, a~d they emerge to proclaim themselves the best thmgs the Autumn season has to offer. 
They are the big games-the biggest games-of the intercollegiate football season. And, like the first frost of November, at least one of them will appear each fall. 
This year there have been several: USC-Oklahoma, Texas.Oklahoma, Notre Dame-USC, and LSU-Alabama. But the 1973 season, a season which has nearly levelled a once-impenetrable thicket of sc~edules and rivalries, has yet to force, its biggest pnze out of the underbrush remaining from more than two months of college gridiron action. 
That prize is there, though. It made its first cautious appearance in mid-November but has been gaining boldness and important ev~ since. And when, on the evening of December 31st, the prize thunders from the tunnels beneath the Sugar Bowl S~dium, everyone is expecting it to be the biggest pnze of all-a one-game playoff for the 1973 Natoinal Championship. 
The Sugar Bowl's catch-a catch which will match Notre Dame's Fighting Irish and Alabama's Crimson Tide in the New Year's Eve showdown-was engineering by New Orleans' Mid-Winter Sports Association, and is a catch which has delighted the patient, persevering hunters who made it. 
"We couldn't be more pleased," bubbled Monk Simons, the chairman of the Sports Association's executive committee. "We have Notre Dame and Alabama playing for the National Title, and also for the McArthur Bowl (which will be awarded to the winner of the ND-'Bama game), and we just couldn't be more delighted. 
"Along with our basketball tournament it'll insure us of a double-sellout, and we've bad, in tbe past few weeks, probably tbe greatest request for press credentials in the history of the Sugar Bowl game." 
But things didn't always look so rosy for the Sugar Bowl, or for Notre Dame. Mter suffering a pair of traumatic defeats in the last two games of the 1972 season, the Irish began slowly in '73, and didn't catch fire until the fifth game of their season when they whitewashed Rice, 28~, at Houston. ' 
Since then, coach Ara Parseghian's team has been overpowering. It began the second half of its season with a 23-14 triumph over Southern Cal, and ended the year last Saturday night, with a 44~ blanking of Miami. In between came Sugar Bowl rumors, Sugar Bowl scouts, and a Sugar Bowl invitation. 
"What happened last year didn't concern us" said Simons. "We felt all along that Notre Dame' had a sound ball club, and or scouts felt that it was one of the best teams coach Parseghian has had since he's been at ND. It was a great time for Notre Dame to come to the Sugar Bowl, too, particularly when Alabama decided to come. 
"And when we got acceptances from both clubs on the 17th of November, we felt that our teams were of the caliber which would keep them unbeaten. We didn't necessarily think that our game would be for the National Championship, but we did think that we'd have two unbeaten teams. ''Things" he said "have just broken right for us this year.;, ' 
Things have also broken well for the two teams who will face off in the Sugar Bowl. SEC champion Alabama (11~) is ranked number-one nationally and has a wishbone offense which is averaging more than 480 yards per game, and a defense which has allowed just over 240 yards per game. 
The third-ranked Irish, on the other hand are scoring at a clip of 35.8 ppg., and surrendering Points at a substantially slower rate-1.6 ppg. 
But the citation catch made by the Sugar Bowl Committee in November included more than a pair of excellent college football teams. It also included Alabama's Paul "Bear" Bryant, and Notre Dame's Ara Parseghian, two of the most successful and most colorful coaches in the college game today. 
And Paneghian, particularly, is looking forward to the New Year's Eve run-in with Alabama with an (Continued on pa1e 21) 
Friday, December 7, 1973 tl
the observer 23 

Carpets vs grass: still debatable 
by John Fineran 
Injuries are a part of football. How well a team succeeds during any given season is determined by its ability to overcome them. Fortunately, Notre Dame has had enough depth during the last two seasons to overcome an injury which has stripped the Irish of the same member of the front four, Steve Niehaus. 
Niehaus has never played the fifth game of the season during his two years here. Last season, while preparing for Notre Dame's fifth opponent, Missouri, he tore ligaments in his left knee. This season, while playing Notre Dame's fourth oppone:1t, Rice, he tore the ligaments in his right knee. 
This is where the similarity ends. The really interesting thing about Niehaus' injuries is the first occurred on natural turf, the second occurred on artificial turf. 
Niehaus was one of three Irish players injured during the Rice game. Afterwards, head coach Ara Parseghian said, "We haven't had anybody hurt all season, and we hadn't played on synthetic turf, either. 
"The sales pitch on synthetic surfaces was that it decreased .inuries," hesaid. "On the con­trary, I think it increases them." 
Does it? I am not able to make a judgement. I do not know the first thing about medicine, but those who do have different opinions whether more injuries occur more on one type of field than another. AU that can be done is to show some of the evidence, both pro and con concerning artificial turf, and hope someone will take the initiative to find the answer to this interesting question. 
There are three different companies manufacturing syn­lhetic surfaces in the United States: Monsanto (Astro-Turf), W <Tartan Turf) and American Biltrite CPolyturf). The first two companies responded to my inquh·y while the third failed to follow up on my request. As a result, Polyturf will not be men­tioned. All three, however, are similar in contruction, having the synthetic fibers bonded to a shock­absorbing pad which is fastened to an asphalt surface. 
Well-manicured 
AstroTurf uses a pile of green nylon •·ibbon. From a far distance, an AstroTurf field ap­~rs to be a well-manicured putting green. Closeup, it looks and feels like a new crewcut. Monsanto has installed several fields since 1964, with some of the notable installations being the 
Astrodome, Cine ina ti 's Riverfront Stadium and Busch Stadium in St. Louis. Rice Stadium is an AstroTurf field as is one of Notre Dame's practice fields on Cartier Field. 
Tartan Turf is a lighter green than AstroTurf. At a close look, it gives the impression of being an oversized peach. The blades are round, thread-like nylon fibers. 3M has installed it in such places as Texas Stadium, Three Rivers Stadium and both the football and baseball fields of the Harry S. T•·uman Memorial Complex. Oklahoma, Michigan and Michigan State all have Tartan Turf fields. 
No explanation should be needed to describe what natural turf is. You see it everyday you walk to class, and you see it everytime you sit in Notre Dame Stadium. It has no padding but the earth which lies underneath. 
There have been four different studies concerning the injuries uccuring on artificial surfaces as compared to natural ones. Three 
J 
were made by independent sources, 
and one by a joint commission. 
D1·. James G. Garrick, associate 
professor of orthopedics and head 
of the Division of Sports Medicine 
at the University of Washington 
School of Medi(:ine, has made two 
such studies. In his first, High 
School Football Injuries: A Pilot 
Comparilion of Playing Surface&, 
Dr. Garrick found that synthetic 
surfaces produced 0.76 injuries as 
compared to 0.52 injuries on 
natural surfaces. 
He also found that 0.93 injuries 
per game occurred on artificial 
surfaces while 0.53 injuries per 
game occurred on dry natural turf. 
"This was to suggest the 
possibility that tractional 
characteristics rather than im­
pact qualities of the turf should be 
investigated as higher priority," 
he said. 
Dr. Garrick's study received 
much criticism, particularly from 
Monsanto .. The first study looked 
at injuries incurring in 228 high 
school games in the Seattle 
metropolitan area during the fall 
of 1970, eighty of the games being 
played on AstroTurf. Monsanto's 
own report claimed an 80 per cent 
decrease in knee and ankle in­
juries. 
Garrick conducted another study 
in 1971, Injury Rates in High School 
Football: A Comparison of 
Synthetic Surfaces and Grass 
Fields, and this time he expanded 
the study to cover 660 games in 
Seattle and Spokane, Wash. and 
Portland, Ore. high school leagues. 
424 games were played on natural 
sod, and the remainder on two 
synthetic surfaces, 183 on three 
different AstroTurf fields and 53 
games on Tartan Turf. 
Tartan Turf tiad the lowest rate 
of injuries per game, 0.28, while 
grass fields accounted for 0.51 
injuries per game. The three 
AstroTurf fields produced an in­
jury rate of 0.63 injuries per game. 
Garrick believes his two studies 
are valid because there has been 
no significant difference in the 
grass rate in both (0.52 in 1970 as 
compared to 0.51 in 1971). 
Oddly enough, more injuries 
occured on wet Tartan Turf (0.42) 
than dry (0.17). On the other two 
surface,s more injuries occurred 
on dry fields than wet. 
Dr. Garrick also received 
criticism in one of the other studies 
conducted by Dr. Harry H. 
Kretzler. Dr. Kretzler's study, 
Artificial Turf and Football In­
juries, covering injuries sustained 
during a four-year period in the 

The now-legendary Astrodome is one of the very fint artificial turf a1hletic fields. Proponents of Astroturf (and other such surfaces) claimed that their mod sod would reduce player injuries. But has it? 
Seatlle area, disagreed with the 1970 study, saying it was "a rather long step for a one-year study"to be sent to a House Subcommittee. 
Dr. K•·etzler raised several points in the report, saying, "Collision is the nan1e of the game. If an artificial surface seems to accentuate this, I would tend to blame the game, not the su•iace." 
He believed that "manufac­turers are making an honest at­tempt to improve their product" because of the improvements in padding over the years. Abrasions are "the only injury that our coaches felt was related to the surface itself." 
•the only way• 
"The only way to reduce injuries is to make the footing less secure," he said. "This could be ac­complished by either wetting the surface or using a shoe with less traction." 
Dr. Kretzler called for more studies in all parts of the country, concluding, " ...as long as it is a collision game players are going to be hurt no matter what surfaces they happen to be playing on." 
The Joint Commission on Competitive Safeguards and Medical Aspects of Sports and its chairman, Dr. Samuel Fuenning, director of student services at the University of Nebraska, presented its own study analyzing injuries n 426 games during the 1970 season to the NCAA. 
The report said its finding "add strength to our belief that the well­maintained playing surface, be it natural or synthetic, is not much of a factor in football injuries, one way or the other." 
"We studied 317 games on natural turf and 109 games on all three types of synthetic turf played during the 1970 season," Dr. Buenning said. "The over-all injury rate per game was 2.78 injuries per game on grass and 2.86 injuries per game on synthetic turf." 
"It should be emphasized," the report said, "that these injury 
•·ates are for games played on surfaces only and in no way imply that the surface was the primary cause or even a contributing factor in the injury." 
Interestingly, Dr. Buenning found a greater frequency of in­juries occurign on muddy fields. "We had more injuries resulting in hospitalization in games played in mud than on any other surface," 
he said. 

It is natural the two companies 
used the reports in their ad­
vertising campaigns. Monsanto 
even had a column appearing in a 
frequent advertisement in The 
Sporting News on its product. 
In the article, A5tretarf: As 
Loved ali a FCIOt.hall Field Can Be, 
•·eprinted by Monsanto with the permission of the Indiana University Staff News (Oct. 23, 1970), Tom Healion, head athletic trainer said, "The players at In­diana like the AstroTurf better because their legs don't get as tired working on it." 
"One injury which has increased are burns. We get quite a few elbow and knee burns caused by sliding across the AstroTurf. 
"Although the short cleats don't lock into AstroTurf, the artificial grass gives better traction to runners and so we haven't eliminated the torn knee and ankle ligaments. 
"But the AstroTurf has cut down 
the severity of these injuries," 
Healion concluded. 
John Pont, when he was In­diana's football coach, said, "I for one am not willing to go along with any surveys that state. unequivocally that artificial surfaces are the reason for more injuries. We at Indiana are per­fectly satisfied." 
Cincinnati Bengals' coach Paul Brown, after having several players injured on lh natural turf at Green Bay, said, "Did you stop tothinkwhat they'd be saying today if we'd played that game on AstroTruf? They'd be having a congressional investigation." 
3M has done much the same thing as Monsanto. 
•A fine product• 
"We investigated all three synthetic surfacings on the market," Kansas Athletic Director Wasde Stinson said. "We think Tartan Turf is a fine product. Its underbase was a big factor in our decision." 
"We are satisfied that Tartan Turf is an outstanding product," said Michigan State's former head coach Duffy Daugherty. ~ "The players have complained of what we call "brush burns," Dr. Allan Ryan, Wisconsin's team physician said of the Camp Ran­dall Stadium Tartan Turf in the Wisconsin State Journal. 
"The players do complain a bit 
because of the hardness of he 
surface, but I don't feel it leads to injuries. We made a study during the first year we had Tartan Turf, and found we had 30 per cent less knee and ankle injuries than the preceeding year."­
The National Football League Players Association has taken a strong opposing stand on the subject of artificial surfaces. The National Labor Relations Board even ruled that artificial turf is a mandatory subject of bargaining for players. Even further, the NFLPA has Dr. Garrick as its medical advisor. 
"All the studies we've seen in­dicate that AstroTurf causes the most injuries," Ed Garvey, the executive director of the NFLPA. said. "Dry AstroTurf is even worse. Tartan Turf would be preferable for the Superdome CNew Orleans). It has a better safety record from all the studies we've seen." 
The NFLPA had sought from the Consumer Product Safety Com­mission a banning of further ar­tifical installations until safety standards were developed. However, its request was denied. 
Still, John Brodie of the San Francisco 49ers told of the 49ers' game in Miami in which six playes, including himselfwerefelled by the heat radiating from the surface. Washington safety Brig Owens 1·ecalled Cleveland Brown haU­back Leroy Kelly slipping and knocking himself out. 
Closer tolhome, Notre Dame has had an AstroTurf practice field on Cartier Field for the past two seasons. Three players-halfback Gary Diminick and offensive linemen Mark Brenneman and Fr·ank Pomarico-all who have suffered injuries during the Irish careers, talked about artificial surfaces. 
Differing opinions 
"I don't mind the burns " Diminick (injured knee) said~ "Maybe the trend toward injuries is because of the tractiop. It is good on artificial turf. 
"I prefer grass fields," center Brenneman <back) said. "It does put strain on my back. It is a much harder surface." 
Tri-captain Pomarico, a guard, injured his ankle in a pre-season scrimmage on natural sod. He likes artificial surfaces. 
"If you are going to be hit the right way," he said. "It doesn't matter where you are. The field condition on artificial surfaces is not affected that much by the weather." 
There is evidence in this report of differing opinions on the subject of artificial surfaces. Some speak highly of it; othersaredetermined to ban its use. 
These four injury reports really don't give the entire picture. They 
were taken over a few years. I think a longer, more comprehensive report is needed by an independent party, one which would not be influenced by any of the manufacturers of artificial sur­faces. 
Perhaps, the NCAA and NFL could institute a joint committee to explore this topic for a period of five to ten years. And, I think each group should encourage its members to participate fully in this important investigation. After all, it is their players, the backbone of football, who should be the important consideration in this study. 
Further, I think the manufac­turers of artificial surfaces should put more of an emphasis on im­proving their product than ad­
... 
vertising its strong points. I have faith that they will. 
Artificial surfaces can and should play an important part in football. However, before they do, some of the questions about their safety should be answered. 

the observer 
Friday, December 7, 1973 

t· ( 
,: 
I • I 
'\ 

'', 
I 



'' 
I ( 
' ) 









