On The Inside 
Flulla Shed ready for use ... page 2 Petition against OC ruling ... page J 

serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Vol. VII No. 91 Thursday, March 1, 1973 
Two candidates debate, one announces 
Campaigns end; voting today 
by Dean Mayors, Tom McKenny, George Brown and Larry Weaver Observer Staff Reporters 
Campaigning for the most bizarre election in Notre Damr's history wound to a confused close last night. The two official run-off candidates Glenn Sorge and .Jim Clarke, engaged in debates in Keenan and Dillon halls. while current SBP Bob Kersten initiated a campaign encouraging students to vote abstention through a blank ballot. 
Mranwhile, several defeated candidates released a :-;latrmrnt in support of Kersten's movement, and rrnounced any intentions to run in future elections. 
In other action last night, the Election Committee nwt and verified Tuesday night's decision that blank ballots would count in the achievement of a majority hy rither Jim Clark or Glenn Sorge. 
Clarke-Sorge debate 
lkbating in Keenan Hall, official tickets of Clarke­Singleton and Sorge-Manigault traded arguements against each other's platform. 
Sorge and Manigault opened the debate by citing the 
advantages claimed in their proposal to incorporate 
:-;tudent government. Sorge stated that a corporation 
would provide students with a more viable means of 
winning acceptance for their proposals. 
llr commented, "We can't be dependent on the 
llnivl"rsity for money. We'll be able to get the funds for 
ours£'lves if we're incorporated." 
Sorge also decried the current status of student 
govrrnment. stating, "The University treats us like 
childrl"n. in loco parentis. Through our corporation, 
\\"£''II be rqual on a legal level." 
Clarke and Singleton responded by revealing in­
formation which they had obtained over the past few 
days concerning the feasibility of Sorge's proposal to 
incorporate the student body. 
Said Clarke, "Sorge and Manigault have used 
Sl'\'l'ral colleges as examples to prove that in­
corporated student bodies work-Harvard, Boston 
College. UCLA. and the University of Michigan. We 
personally called all of these universities and inquired 
as to the nature of such corporations. We found that in 
('\'ery case. the corporations are different from the 
type Sorge is advocating." 
Platforms defended 
Clarke then cited examples from the schools in 
question. claiming that the corporations of such 
schools deal only in such services as running the 
laundry and bookstores. He stressed the fact that none 
of thr corporations have anything to do with 
policymaking. 
Clarke also defended his proposal to eliminate the 
office of student body president and center power in the 
I tall Presidents Council. 
Sorge and Manigault countered Clarke's charges 
against the incorporation proposal by giving examples 
of instances when student government could not help 
:-;tud<'nls in need. He cited the case of the Lewis Hall 
f£'male graduate student. commenting, "As a legal 
pnt ity W£' would be able to stand up for such a student in 
ll('('d." 
Both teams of candidates closed the debate by urging 
support for their own proposals. Another debate was 
sl'll£'duled at 10:30 in Dillon Hall, but press deadlines 
pr£'\'ented Observer coverage. ' 
Clarke and Singleton spent the day campaigning 
across the campus, stressing that they are not in the 
race for themselves but to introduce a new mechanism 
of haII government. 


Clarke-Singleton and Sorge-Manigualt tickets debate in Keenan (top) while Kersten urges a "blank ballot" \'ate (bottom). 
"Once our system centering in the Hall Presidents Council is implemented, ~e plan to resign," said Clarke. 
Clarke: 'Up to the students' 
Clarke expressed confidence in his proposal and was 
optimistic as to the outcome of today's election. 
"It's simply a case of deciding between two . 
profoundly different systems. It's up to the students to 
d£'cide." he said. 
In other activity, Sorge-Manigault headquarters 
yesterday afternoon blasted the Kersten ad­
ministration for the confusion that existed Tuesday 
night following the run-off election and the subsequent 
eandidacy announcement of Bob Kersten and H-man. 
·•student government has been ineffective at Notre 
Dam<'." the statement said, "simply a chaotic and. 
disillusioned situation. Last night is a good example. 
"The time has come when we must choose a viable 
form of government. The choice is abolition or in­
eorpora tion." 
Sorge: Sick of power politics' 
When Sorge was questioned about the events of 
Tuesday night he answered, "We're disgusted with all 
of the power politics being played. Our campaign is 
intent on putting an end to it all." 
Sorge went on to say, "Kersten isn't what he pur­
ports to be. He is absolutely abusing his position. I 
have never seen such a classless power grab with so 
little regard for the students. It's a complete ego trip." 
Speaking from a balcony of Dillon Hall, Kersten 
announced his wish that the student body vote with 
"blank ballots" in the election today, thereby upsetting 

IJJIIJIIJHDIJIIIIIIIJIJJIHIIillliiiMIIRniiiiiiiMI..II--WI 

Final election rules announced 
The Election Committee announced final rules for today's run-off election. The rules, released last night, are: 
--Two official pens will be issued to each hall 
--Any person voting must use one of the official pens 
--After a person has voted the poll watcher will in­titial. with an official pen, the back of the ballot. Only initialled ballots will be validated. 
Abstentions <blank ballots) will be counted as legal votes. provided they are properly initialled by the poll watcher. 
--If one of the two listed candidates gets 50 percent plus one of the valid votes, he is elected. 
--If neither of the listed candidates gets 50 percent plus one of the valid votes the election will be declared "invalid" and an election will be held Monday, March 
5. in which a plurality will determine the winner. Candidates for the Monday election will be determined by allowing any candidate who turns in a petition with one hundred signatures. 
--"A blank vote tomorrow will not elect anyone." 
In other action, the Election Committee publicly censured the proponents of "voting a blaRk ballot for posting signs larger than legal size and placing posters on the exterior of buildings. 
"These violations have, by and large, advertised a blank ballot in connection with Bob Kersten and Dennis Etienne," the Committee reported. 
I...IUIDJmmuuiiiiiJUIIIIUIUIIIJ--IBIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIHIIIII 
the chances of a majority ballot and invalidating the 
run-off. 
The King implied through his "Vote Thrice" theme 
that the invalidation of the fun-offf would make way for 
a new election that could include himself on the ballot. 
Revealing his thoughts that "the literacy of the 
rabble has always been a question in my mind,·a blank 
ballot. therefore, is needed tomorrow. 
"If the pen causes you to sin," proclaimed Kersten, 
"then cast it down. Remain true to your illiteracy." 
After endorsements by varsity football players Tim 
Hudnick and Steve Niehaus, Kersten entered from the 
rear of the crowd carrying Undandidate the Cat, and 
read a prepared speech. 
Kersten: 'Rain of~ candidatesI 
"I was overwhelmed yesterday by a cosmic rain of 
candidates," Kersten said. He further stated that he 
feared the "creeping signs of democracy in my in­
eiduous wave of despotism." 
H<' then proceeded to pull a sword from a "stone". 
declaring that he was fit to reign again. 
Finally, in a letter to The Observer, defeated SBP 
candidates Hess, Kubik, Wojcieszek, Mastro, 
Galloway. Wesolowski, Gonzales and Brennan an­
nounced their support of the blank ballot vote. 
··our decisions were definitely not made on the basis 
of the personalities involved," the statement stressed. 
Hess' running mate, Mike Davis, took the opposite 
Yi<'w. In a personal statement to The Observer, Davis 
urged "every voter to look at the two candidates in the 
run-orr election. and make a choice on that basis." 
The placement of candidates' statements was. as in 
all previous election coverage, determined by lottery. 

Co-ex classes to be continued in 1973-74 
Tll£' llniversity of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College have n•n£'W('d their commitment to the ~tud<'nl co-exchange program by continuing without major change this program for the academic war t973-74. · In a joint statement. the College and the University said. "We feel ~trongly that each institution lwn£'fits bv the educational enrich­nwnt of ·its students who par­ticipal£' in the co-exchange program." 
llni\'£'rsity Provost Fr. James T. Burtchaell 'noted yesterday. "We tri(•d to go slow on this so there ll'ould he fewer problems. We tried !his approach for a semester to see if it worked. and it did." 
The :1.000-hour credit exchange in dfect now will be continued for tlw 1973-74 school year. Each in­stitution will establish its own guid£'1ines in order to prevent ob£'rburdening specific depart­nwnts. Advance registration n•sults will be evaluated and balanced by an inter-institutional eommittee. 
Tlw joint statement noted. "Tiwr<' will be no requirement that this :l.IKIO-hour quota be entirely us('d up. nor will there be an ac·­eounting for hours not so used." 
Notre Dame Registrar Richard Sulli\'an noted yesterday that Notre Dame students were r<'gistered for 2,742 semester hours at SMC. while approximately half that number of SMC students were rPgistered for Notre Dame eourses. 
Sulli\'an suggested that there might be somP sort of guidelines for Notre Dame students to avoid overrunning the 3000-hour limit in the future. Only after the drop-and­add s<'quence was finished was Nolr£' Dame able to avoid 0\'£'1Ttmning the quota this year. 
Due to the two institutions' differ£'nl billing procedures, guidl"lines have been drawn for sp<'cial fees attached to certain courses. Saint Mary's College stud£'nts who take a Notre Dame l'Ourse comparable to one on their l'ampus for which a fee is assigned will b(' charged that fee. Notre Danw students will pay special f(•('s attached to any courses they l<~ke <~I S<~int Mary's College. 
Tlw statement explained that the l'OOp<'t·a live Speech and Drama lkpartnwnt will continue as such. and its hours will be separate from llw :I.O!KI-hour quota. 
Courses required by Religious Studi£'s-Theology majors will also lw lToss-listed and exclusive of the :l.IKKI-hour quota. 
Students from both institutions may l'ontinue to participate in specific musical organizations on Pilh<'r eampus. 
Th£' joint statement was signed hy Dr. Edward L. Henry, l'n'sident of Saint Mary's and Fr. Burtchaell. Notre Dame Provost. 
Saint 1\Iary's officials could not hl' r£'ached yesterday for Plaboration on the details of the agn't'nwnt. 

----------~------------­the observer Thursday, March 1, 1973 
warld briefs 
{c) 197.1 New York TimPs 

Moscow-The Soviet Union today launched an un~nned satellite of ;1 t~·pp that has been identified in the west as a Military Navigation and !\lonitoring Craft. The Satellite, Cosmos 549, was placed into an orbit of :1111 miles hy :l41i miles at an angle of 74 degrees to the eqarth's t•quator. Satl'llite,; in this series have been launched from the North l{ussian Military Spa~(' Center ol Plesetsk. 
Washington -The llnited States started to sweep Haiphong Harbor of mint's yPstt·rday and then, abruptly, stopped all operations and mm·pd its 111 inP-clearing task force to sea, according to well-placed lh'fpnsP lkpartment sources. 
Washington -The GPneral Accounting Office is investigating an unrl•portl'd $200.000 contribution solicited by and secretly given to l'rPsidPnt Nixon's t'P-election Campaign by Robert L. Vesco, a New .ltT~Py financier who is under federal charges of securities fraud, (;.Ao officials said today. 
Pa,.is -Thl' llnill·d States and North Vietnam, through some in­tricate diplomatic manpurvering today, seemed to ease the crisis over tlw dPiay in American prisoner releases and to pave the way for l'Oneluding the intl'rnational conference on Vietnam Firiday. 
an c:ampu• taday 
6 30 lecture •'fundamentals of insurance," tirst of six '<'SSionmini course by charles reddy, university insurance officN. 211 computing center 
I 30 & lO pm movie, "play misty for me" sponsored by ~tuncnl union social commission. engineering auditorium 
H:OO pm lecture, "t11c threat of constitutional revolution" lly nr. llf'nry steele commoner, professor of american history at i't1nl1erst college, libraoy <uditorium. ­
R:OO 11111 boxing, bengal bout finals, ace 
9 ·00 pm concert, "Ihe art of miles davis" by the notre cianw jazz band. student center 


Ministry's Bulla Shed readied lor campus 
by Bill Sohn Staff Reporter 

Aftl'r a grand opening earlier this I''I'Pk. tlw Bulla Shed is now ready f:1r daily usc by students of Notre Ila nll' and St. Marv's. 
Tlw Bulla Shed. which is 

opPratPd by Campus Ministry, is· 
opPn from 2p.m. to !a.m. -sunday 
through Thursday. and later on 
Friday and Saturday. It's a "drop 
ND set as April 
teacher exam site 
Tlw lfnivcrsitv of Notre Dame has lwPn dPsignated as a test l'Pntl'r for the National Teacher l•:xaminations 1NTE l scheduled for April 7. College seniors prPparing to teach and teachers ;1pplying for certification or positions in schools requiring the NT!<: will ht• Pligible for the test. 
Tlw tests arl' designed to assess cognitivl' knowledge and un­dPrstanding in professional l'ducation. general education and ,;ubjcct-field specialization. Ap­plicatns for the test at Notre Dame 11 ill haw an opportunity to com­parP their performance with candidates throughout the country. 
Information and registration forms may be obtained by con­tacting Dr. Peter P.Grande, assistant dean of the Freshman Year of Studies at Notre Dame, or by writing National Teacher Examinations, Educational Testing Service, Box 911 Prin­
. N.J. 08540 in" center for all students and faculty land is designed as a "get awav" for those who are bored with.lhc.iaded frolics of capus and off-camptd living. 

"I•:vPr~·one is invited to drop by for coffcP if vou want a break from ~tudy." says Fr. Tom Stella of the l.'ampus Ministry staff. "Or you might want to stop by to study, or just to talk to someone for a while. or relax." 
Tlw Bulla Shed can be reserved hy groups seeking a nweting placP. To make a reservation studPnts may call the Campus I\Iinistry office at 6536 and speak to Barb. the secretary. 
ClosP to 100 students and faculty members stopped by at the open house on Monday night. The Shed has a large living room. two smaiiPr rooms. one of which is deeoratPd ;-s a forest -complete ,,·ith tree stump. a kitchen. and a rust ie basPment lounge. It has hPl'll designed and furnished bythe Campus Ministry with some professional help from Richard .-\nderson. an architectural student in his final year. 
"To give students an alternative to parties and bars on weekends" is thP purpose of the Bulla Shed according to coordinator Fr. Tom Stl'lla. 
The Bulla Shed is located at the corner or Juniper and Bulla roads. It's hours are 2 p.m. to I a.m. on Sundays thr,mgh Mondays and ~p.m. to whenever on Fridays and Saturdavs. 
Stella·said he started the Bulla Slwd to answer the need of most 

RENT A PINTO\ 
11 5A DA~. 
5¢A MILEJ 
Jordan Motors 

295·1981 
ltoll=O,CALL: 
"Craig Kapson"1 or Lois Tranter 259-1981 
For sludents and lacully 21 and ove, 
I.RENT·A·CARI 
. . 
students to get away from 

studying.  the  library,  and  the  
campus  in  general.  "It's  off­ 
campus out it's close."  

Stella also said another major reason for the shed is to have a place with a relaxed atmosphere.· unlike parties on campus with: crowds and most of the people drunk. It is a place where someone can walk in. have a cup of coffee, raid the refrigprator, sit down and just talk. Stplla described it as a "drop in place." 
The Bulla Shed is also open to groups. This Sunday CILA will have a dinner and meeting there. A few elasscs also meet at the Bulla Shed. 
Other possible activities at the Bulla Shed arP a game night, singing, discussion groups on a nu·ipty of subjects. and once the \\'Patlwr gets better. a cookout in tlw backyard on Fridays. 
Pr!'sently the Bulla Shed has mass and adinner on Fridays at 5 
p.m .. 

St!'lla is "optimimistic" about tlw Bulla Shed. He says he has "grPat hopes for the place. It will 
fhe Observer is published daily cturinq the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions 111ay be purchased for $8 per 
•Semester ($14 per year) from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postaqe paid, Notre Dame, Ind. .t6556. 

mpet a nped." place for students to be them­
Steve "Benny" Bennett. a splvPs. and that it is felxible to the student volunteer at the Bulla needs of anyonp who wants to Slwd. I'Pels that the shed is a good hecomP invoived. 

Also Concord Mall in Elkhart Downtown open Mon. & Thurs. 'til 9. Btackmond's open Fri. 'lil9. Others open nile 'lil9. 


T & c Shopping Center 2411 Mish. Ave.
Prices In Town *Wine Cellar The Notre Dame Party Cente1 s 
.•' 
-... ---.. ------. ­



Thursday, March 1, 1973 
the observer 
3 




Flanner students protest OC ruling 
by Mar_v Egan Staff' Reporter 
SophonHln' Flanner residents llo\\ard StiPrwalt and Pat Lally tnitiatPd thP circulation of a pPtition 1\londay night at Flanner Tnwl'l' which protested "the Ad­n;inistration procC'dure of 'booting' ~tud<•nts off campus." They cir­l"ltlatnd tlw pPtition late in the ,., <'ning. and in four hours recieved :all sit.:n;llun·s. a majority at ,.. ,;llliH'r. 
Tlw n•ason for the petition was vitPd ;1s informing Administration that tlw studl'nts wPre united in n·.it'cting tlw way it is handling the lwusim~ problem. Stierwalt and l,;tiiY fppJ that the "housing 1•roh.IPIII is a rpsult of the Ad­lllillistration"s supposed mistake of ;~dmitti11g too many students." ~1:111\" ~tudl•nts fPel the Ad­tnini~trat!on could have C'asily ;ulmittl'd IPss students. 
Supt'l ficial Commitment 
··(}II<' pf tlw llniversitv's 
~~ ntngPst points has been -its 
profl>ssl'd lwlil'f in community" 
;~;~id Flantwr n•sident Mike 
!\lurph~·. spPaking for Stierwalt 
""d l.all~·. "Tlw ttnviversity. by 
its adions. has shown that this 
Foschio: Lack of law students 
"Tht>re will never be enough good lawyers. nor applicants for an 
<·duc~ttion in law." writes Leslie G. J.'osehio. assistand dean and 
proi"Pssor of law at the University of Notrl' DamC'. in an article prepan•d for the Pre-Law Society ~Pwslelll'r. Foschio differs with thosp -who see a diminished 
•·dueational quality and anover­
<TOW<il'd  lpgal  profession  in  the  
<'IIITl'nt  l'rush  of  law  school  ap­ 
plications.  

Foschio daims that the "spectre of anm·l'tTrowdPd legal profession nwv lw a 111vth. Current statistics nw·~· rl'fl~et a problem of distribution rather than evidence of :111 :thsolite saturation point." he s;tid. liP l'itt'd tlw Pxample of one Indiana titv where the number olla"·vl'rs is tlw samt' today as it "as tio ~·ears ago despite the fact that llw eit~··s population has ~uhstantiallv increased. 
In additio;1, hl' said. there is an itHT(•asinl! dt>mand for new means to providl' \pgal servides to middle­
l'l:lss working families through group-practice and pre-paid legal 
insurancP programs. "This group pn•sents a virtually new market for legal services." he said. 
Notrl' DamP law graduates in 1!112 \\TI'l' verv successful in fin­ding good lt•gai positions. the dean notl'd. Through the combined dforts of tht> students. faculty and 
plael'ment  service.  a  record  
numlwr  of  judicial  clerkships.  
inducting  one  with  the  li.S.  

Supn'llH' Court. were achieved, :~nd :tn l'vPn greater number are <'XPl'l.'tl'd for this year's class. he s:tid.Foschio added that the .\nwritan 1\;tr Association's task Ioree on professional utilization n'tl'ntl~· rPpOI·ted "there is no <'Onelusive l'vidence to indicate that tlwrl' art> now or are likely to hl' in thP forst>eable future more legally trained nwn and women that l'an be satisfactorily and ,·ommitnwnt to the community is '<'r~· supPrficiaI." 
··Tit<· studC'nls through this JH'Iition ha\"l' Pxpressed the fact that tlwn's a l'nmnnmitv to be ,·onsidPrl'd." staiPd Murph.y. "The t·11in•rsit~·. dpspite what it says. h;ts prn,·ed to lw a danger to the :\ll t'nnlnHmit~·." lw added. 
Thl' prnposallwhind the petition is that thP llniversitv should proYidP lliH'ampus hottsing for thosp \\ho want it. or at least take llll'asun•s to provide housing. said SliPrwalt. 
Petition Statements 
'J'hp 1wtiton statPd that the l"ninTsity has failPd its students in fin• \\·avs: 
ll It siatPd. "tlw llniversitv dl'l'l'in•d liS as to the number Of stnd<•nts to lw forced to leave l'ampus. AlTnrding to the Ft>b. 2. l!l'i:l Ohs<'l"l'<'r. Dr. Philip Fac­
•·<·nda. ading \'ice-President of StudPnt .-\ffairs. said that only ;thout 100 studPnts will be forced oil c;nnpus next ~·ear. 
"llo\\·l'\"l'r. <ll'Cording to The ol's'''"~''''. of i"Pb. :!(i. the number of studPnt~ to lw forct>d otf campus is in l:tt'l in l'Xl'l'ss of 7:)0. with figures lnrnt four halls still unavailable. 

Army Navy Discount 
207 N. Main are found at Downtown South Bend Mon. & Thurs. 9 a.m. -8p.m. Tues. Wed. Fri, Sat. 9-5:30 
Trench Coats Wool Overcoats $14.99 Musette Shoulder Bags 
Back packs Army Fatigue Pants and Jackets Army Combat Boots 
Army T-Shirts 
0.0. Color 
Coupon Special 
ARMY FIELD  JACKET  $12.99  
with coupon $9.99  
Cou  ires Mar. 5, 1973  

2.99 $3.99 $13.99 .99 

:!l "It has ddiberatPiy delayed tlw rl'll•asP of information con­I'Prning tlw number os students '' lw "·i 11\w forced to lllO\'P off. thus ;11\owing insufficient time to seek suitahll' future living ac­1'0111111 octa Iions. 
:n "It has failed to encourage :111~· incn•ase in off-campus housing h~· \pasing Notre Dame propPrt~· for apartml'nt building. 
~ l "It has twice failed to limit the nul11hl•r of incoming freshman d!'spill' 0\'l'rcrowding. 
;; l "lkspill' the imminent problem of Sl'Vl're overcrowding. thl' .-\d111inistration has prohibitied f<•maJp undl'rdraduates from Ji,·ing otT l'ampus. evpn when they (IPs in• to do so." 
l'etition circulation 

Students distributt>d the petition at (;rat'l' TowPr. "Wt> gave a pl'tition to Flamwr Hall President :\likl' 1\latranga," Murphy r<•,·<·alPd. "He's bringing photostat<•d l'opit>s of the petition to lht' ll·tll l'rcsident's Council tn<•l'l ing Tucsday night to present it to tht• 1\1'(' and to consider it." 
M<'ct 1,\"ith Riehle 

StiPrwalt and 1\lurphy will meet 
productivPiy l'mployed." The same group also claimed "the <'xistl'nee of a large pool of well­qualifiPd. legally trained in­diy:duals constitutes a major opportunity and should be viewed as a significant national resour­
.. 

l'l'. 
Foschio concluded by urging 

that "t~ood students continue to be 
<'ncouraged to enter law school. 
particularly if they are inclined inward pul)Iic service. Society will lw ill-sl'rved if they are not. The practice of law \;ill continue to pro,·ide thosp who enter it with a lifetime of challenge and ~atisfaction in the course of sl'l'Uring justice." 
An important announcement to every student in the health professions: 
NEW SCHOLARSHIPS ARE AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY. 
THEY COVER TUITION AND RELATED COSTS AND PROVIDE AN ANNUAL INCOME OF $5,300 AS WELL. 
If a steady salary of $400 a month and paid-up tuition will help you continue your professional training, the scholarships just made pos­l"ible by the Uniformed Services Health Professions Revitalization Act of 1972 deserve your close attention. Because if you are now in a ml'dical, osteopathic;, dental, veterinary, podiatry, or op­tumetn school, or ar1• work­ing t<m.·ard a PhD in Clinical l's~·ehology, you may qualify. 
Jl'c owkc it msy fur !fUll lu I"UIIIjl/('/ ('!fUll I' sl 11d ics. You'rp cummissimwd as an offict•r as soon as you l'ntl•r tlw pro­gram, but rPmain in studl'nt status until graduation. 1\nd, clurin'g t>ach yL•ar you will be 


JUNIORS 

Make you:r yearbook portrait appointment 
LAST CHANCE 
I call 283-8473
I 
L 
Senator William 



PROXMIRE 
will speak this Saturday at Goshen College. 

The time: 8:00 p.m., Sat. March 3 
The place: Union Auditorium, Goshen College Goshen, Indiana 
The cost: 52.50, $2.00 or $1.50 
DON'T MISS HIM! 

on active duty (with extra pay) for 45 days. Naturally, if your academic schedule requires that you remain on eampus, you stay on campus -and ::;tillrect>iYe your active duty pay. 
Aclice duty rerJIIirements fll'£' fair. BasicallY, you serve one .year as a coin~issioned offiel'r for each vear vou've participatl'd in the pr~gram, with a two \"ear minimum. You may ap];ly for a scholar­!:'hip \\·ith eithl'r the Army, l\'aYy or Air Force, and know that upon l'ntering active duty Y•lll'll han rank and dutit•s in kt'l'ping "·ith yom proft•sl:'ional training. 
Tlw life'10 work vou\·e cho­spn foryour10elf retiuires long, hard, expensive training. NO\\' \\'P are in a position to give you somt> help. :.\Iail in the coupon at your earliest COJ1\'enience for more detailed information. 
r----------------,
~~~~:~'~! Fur~·t•s .St·hulaxshi\'"' ( ( N .~ : 1 
t'nin·r,..al City, Tt•:\n,.; -;:-.u' I I th•,..lt"t' infunnatlttll f,q· tht• fo•llo•Will~ I 
d 
l•l'ul!nun: Army ] ~a\') :~ :\lr l-.,•ro•o• I . ~h..tu·aT O.. tt.. •)':llh!•· :---lh·nllll I 
~ ~;;~~:::"1'll·'{,:?, !;:::~.'i}~\~ .._____ : 
Nanw-----:----,.-----\I ! I' It'il"t' \'l"i II t ~ !'\oot'• .St•t•. :: ________ ( 
"·'·h·,.,_________ I 
,·;,.__________ I I
:-'talo·_____z,,,____ 1 
Enrnllt•tllll---.,..,-,,....-;-:----I 
~ .St·h... ol I I 'I\• ~:nuluntt• 111....,.----,--~-:---::--I U:lh' ( hhth 1~t.•nth I 1\"t•ar) 1llo•..::n·o·' I 
11 t:\lonthl lDa)'l tY,•a!') I 
I 'l'u•liatl·~· 11••1 a' aut"hit• in Air Furr:t•l'n·~rnm. I 
~----------------~ 

I I 
~ 
~ 
"it h Din•ctor of Student Housing, Fr..lanws l{it>hle. on Thursday. 
"\\'<' don't want to confront him." said Murphy. "but discuss the proposal with him and see what <':111 hP donl' about it." 
Stirwalt fl't>ls that "there's a real ~l'paration between the ad­mainistration and the students." liP and Murphy hope to accomplish 
as  much  as  possible  at  this  
llH'Pting.  
"\\'e  like  to  discourage  them  

from doing it next year." he added. 




THE OBSERVER Dpinian 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
John Abcwd  Dan Thornton  
Editor-in-Chief  NEWS: 283-1715  Business Manager  
EDITORIALS: 283-8661  
Don Ruane  BUSINESS: 283-7471  Joe Butler  
Executive Editor  Advertising Manager  

Thursday, March 1, 1973 
Time to end it 
As expected in the rapidly changing like a legitimate reform. political climate around LaFortune there The other option is a poorly conceived are some new considerations in the fluid and even more poorly defended proposal ground rules for the Student Body to incorporate the student government. Presidential elections. If neither Glenn The implicit assumptions made by the Sorge nor Jim Clarke garner 50 percent Sorge-Manigault ticket are 1) that the plus one of the votes cast in today's run­not-for-profit student corporation would off election there will be a special election automatically be given tax exempt status on Monday (March5)-anybody with 100 and 2) that the Board of Directors of the signatures can enter and there will be no student corporation would never vote to campaigning. change the corporation's charter even 
That's just great. How many colleges though it has the power to do so withoutlt can claim that they had not one but two general referendum. election circuses in one week and all for Neither of these assumptions is wt:.l­the same office? Any reasonable voter founded. In Indiana separate application ought to know that an election, if it is to must be made for tax exempt status by mean anything, should stand on its not-for-profit corporations. Secondly, original rules. Quite simple, there should since only one-third of the Board of be a winner in today's run-off election­Directors will be elected by the student that's what "run-off" means and that's body, there is absolutely no guarantee the contract that the student body made that the charter will not be changed with the Election Committee. u nil a tera lly. 
It's not fair to allow the present ad· Sorge and Manigault have been guilty ministration to stand for re-election of many misrepresentations throughout without a campaign. No amount of the campaign. They have falsely claimed changing the rules in the middle of the that the student governments of Boston stream will mask this fact. College and Harvard University are 
Now what incorporated. They have falsely claimed 
So the choice is really between the that the corporation offered some hope Sorgl'-Manigault ticket and the Clarke­for those forced to move off-campus. In Singleton ticket. And that's no contest. No general, they have not played fair with matterwhatreservations one might have the student body. <1 bout the specific nature of the reforms The election, as a democratic process, proposed by .Jim Clarke and Chris is not meant to be manipulated after it Singleton they are, at least, subject to the has begun. It is a test of people and ideas t<_'mpering influence of whatever con­under predetermined rules. Under these stitutional committee formulates the circumstances, the tickets of Clarke and final reforms. And, in general, the Sorge, alone, deserve consideration rt'forms reflect a realistic desire to put t.od"fly. And the ticket of Jim Clarke and some direct budgeting power in the hands Chris Singleton deserves election. of the hall presidents. In view of the present desire by neafly all students to preserve hall communities, this seems The Editorial Board IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIHIIIII...... 11•111 ·-1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111•1-lllllluiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiUIIIIWIIIII'IIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIQIII, 
Letter. • • . . on abortion 
Editor: before birth, liberty at birth and to life in these United States. The 
Two thousand years ago the the pursuit of happiness after court has spoken quite improperly. Savior of mankind gave to all who birth. l Our founding Fathers were The ruling is contrary to the faith had ears to hear an assurance God fearing men. of our fathers, contrary to two which was threefold in scope. He By its recent ruling on the centuries of American tradition, said that He is the Way, the Truth subject of abortion the Supreme and the Life. Life He had in Court would deprive numerous abundance and His life was from Americans of their God-given right Rev. Mortimer A. Ferrick C.S.C. eternity, always Hisand His to 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIDmtiiiiHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII!IIIIIIIIII 
give. His Way was from eternity, always the very human choice to 
Campus Printout Contest
spend nune months in the womb of 
his Mother. His Truth was also quite human because He had first Camera freaks arise! A$10 prize Contestants are limited to three qgpzged it at Bethlehem -a awaits the best picture selected by photos and all entries must have newborn Baby cried. Christ has our judges to be used in a "Campus the name, address and phonehallowed all human life. Printout" in .a future issue of The number of the applicant. Only
Two hundred years ago our Observer. photos accompanied by a stampedfounding Fathers drafted an If you have black and white self addressed envelop will be' American Constitution which photos of campus scenes you would returned.
' I 
contained a threefold assurance of like to see published, bring them to Observer and Dome individual rights_ All men are The Observer office, third floor photographers are ineligible. r equal as to the rights to life, liberty LaFortune before 5 pm March 7. and the pursuit of happiness. 
liiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIDDIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIDIIIIIIIIIf
~ 1They may be understood thus: life 
The Bingo Clouts 

byran kin,. 
One£' upon a time in a strange land called "Know the shame," there livf'd a society of monkeys. This strange land was generally con­siden•d to be a seat of higher learning and Christianity <The monkeys had their own version of the Christ figure, possessingall of the per­ft•ct ions which contemporary human Christians attribute to their Christ.) 
Now not all of the monkeys were the same. Some had brown eyes, and some had black ones. The brown-eyed monkeys were the majority, by a ratio of 6:1, approximately. For no other reason than the fact that their eyes were of a lighter hu<' than those of the black­eyed monkeys, the brown-eyed monkeys assumed that they were superior, and the other monkeys inferior. Despite this rather silly s<'paration, all of the monkeys got along fairly well almost all the time. Tlwlight brown-eyed monkeys tolerated their less fortunate black eyed neighbors and, from all outward appearances, the two groups mixed 
fairly wdl. 
However, when the time came around for their annual "Bingo Clouts." strange things would happen. The Bingo Clouts was a series of aggressive competitive matches held in tournament style which would have any two monkeys of similar weight ,compete in a match which consisted of each monkey trying to knock out the other by hit­ting him over the head with a club, which they called a "bingo". If a monkey was knocked out, he was declaret'i the loser, provided he remained unconscious for a period of no less than ten seconds. . . Each match consisted of three periods, each period lasting two minutes. 
If neither monkey was knocked out by the end of a match, then the job of deciding on a winner fell into the hands of the judges (so-called because of their brown-eyes). The fudges were usually middle-aged, pot-bellied monkeys, with patches of crimson on their necks, and their job was to deliberate, each in private, and then offer their warped, distorted judgement as to which monkey should be declared the winner. Being a fudge was quite an unsophisticated job, so these monkeys wore coats and ties in order to enhance their somewhat mediocre appearance, and to add on an air of dignity to their task. Also their was a 'n•t•fere<' (so-called because his incompetence frequently led the spectators to believe that he had indulged in a bit of marijuana smoking prior to his entering the ring). His job was to make sure that both "clouters", as they were called, bashed each other fairly (no low clouts, no rabbit clouts, etc.) It goes without saying that he, too, had brown eyes. 
Ithas already been said that strange things would happen each year at the Bingo Clouts. The tolerance of the brown-eyed monkeys for their inferiors would disappear, and all the hatred and prejudice that stayed pretty much hidden during the year appeared in all its ugliness. 
Brown-eyed monkeys jeered at the black-eyed competitors, shouting ;mit-black-eye remarks and bending over to flash them a glimpse of their anuses !which frequently turned out to be their only asset as far as appParance is concerned!. 
Now it camP to pass that one year a particularly polished and adept doutPr decided to enter the Bingo Clouts. He was probably one of the !Jpst clouters in the entire land. But he had one major handicap; he had black eyes -dark, sinister, black eyes. When his turn came to com1wte in the clouts henoblelyentered the ring, amid the boos and profanities and a nit-black-eye remarks which issued from the anuses OOPS 1 from the mouths of the intelligent, Christian, predominantly brown-eyed crowd. After standing next to his brown eyed opponent to hear the reefereenumble the rules, the black-eyed monkey went to his conwr. as did the other clouter, to await the bell signaling the start of the match . 
The black-eyed monkey showed amazing grace, speed and com­~wtence throughout the first two rounds and took them easily. Then camP round three, when, to his surprise, the black-eyed monkey caught a hard clout on the right side of his face, which sent him sprawling to the floor. The intelligent, Christian, predominantly hrown-eyedcrowd roared, loving every second of the black-eyed monkey's predicament. Now the custom.was that if a competitor was knocked down but not knocked out, he would have to remain idle for a period of eight seconds, while the other competitor retired to a neutral corner, after which the fight would resume, unless thereefereefelt that the fallen clouter was in a physically unsuitable condition to continue. But in the case of this fallen monkey, that procedure underwent a peculiar alteration. The referee asked the fallen monkey if he was able to continue, to which he replied, in quite a normal fashion, "Yes. Give me my eight count and I'll resume." But thereefPree.seeing a chance to appease the hate-filled crowd, refused to permit the fallen monkey to continue by declaring "This one's over for you, buddy." S o the decision was awarded to the less competent brown-eyed clouter, and the intelligent, Christian, predominantly brown-eyed crowd yelled and screamed and shouted more anti-black-eye remarks, and boasted of thei.r paper laurels. 
So another black-eyed clouter fell victim to the perverse ways of the predominantly brown-eyed society, and made the agonizing long, long lonely trek back to his dressing room. wondering what would be the next triai he would be forced to endure at the hands of the intelligent Christian. predominantly brown-eyed society. 

the observer 
. Night Editors: George Lund, Art Esposito Help. Joe Abell. John Abowd Day Editor· Tom Drape Sports Night Editor: Vic Dorr Hal's Keeper: Phil Orscheln Nighr Controller: Howard Halle Typists: Barb Norcross, Dennis Anastasoff, Steve Roper, John Flannioan 
The Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief: John Abowd Executive Editor· Don Ruane Managing Editor: Joe Abell New Editor Anthony Abowd SMC Editor: Maria Gallagher Edttorial Editor-Jerry Lutkus Features Editor: Beth Hall Associate Editor: Bob Higgins Special Projects Editor Dan Barrett 


the observer 5 

since I have not totally shared my life with him ,'either, as anyone on 42nd street can tell

Letters Ta A Lanely Eiad 
you. 
Originally, I had hoped that someday Darby and I could retire together to a little rose-covered rectory in the country, where I might live off his stud fees and he might

on a rector and his d.o'g. ra.ise a family. Perhaps, if he is lucky, he 
mtght sharP. that dream with !';Omeone P.lse. Right now, I would like to find a new home and a new master for Darby.

r•v•r•nd rabert rJriffin I wish I could give him impeccable 
references, but in honesty, he does not have I think another story is about to be written students who share sandwich meats and ice the times he shows up in the chapel for all the virtues hoped for in a priest's dog. He for the annals of the Kingdom of the Lonely cream with that unkempt little beast of Mass. People show up in church to Ishare the is constantly lecherous, for example, God. It is a story of exile or banishment mine until he is sick unto death to his comfort of the sacraments. Dogs come although I have always suspected that which involves a priest's separation from stomach. Then he comes staggering home because they want to be scratched and lechery, for Darby is the triumph of hope one of the best creatures on earth. It is the with hiccoughs like the village lush, whose petted. Generally, it leaves a bad im­over experience. I frankly acknowledge, story of Darby O'Gill and his roommate, the Plbow has been screwed to the free-drink pression on Catholics to see dogs at church, however, that it is quite possible that any Rector of Keenan, and the long loneliness of bar: and I must hold his head until the as though those animals weren't getting day now, there will be squirrels appearing the nights in which the cocker spaniel will enough loving at home. On one recent oc­on this campus with ears that flop down to fret himself into nightmares over what has dizziness stops, and his stomach is at peace casion, I heard of abride· and groom the ground, which will prove that Darby's happened to that Rector, and the Rector will again, and he has made a general recovery kneeling before the priest in_Sacred Heart pursuit of wildlife has not been entirely miss the beauty of a puppy, faithful and from the effects of gluttony. Church to 1receiv~ the nuptial blessing, and fruitless. Also, I must mention of Darby trusting. dozing in contentment at his It is difficult to keep O'Gill away from the my own dear Darby chose that moment to that he is not too bright, and he stands on his master's feet. dining halls, especially since he feels he kneel beside them, the uninvited guest at the ears when he eats. But he is awfully cute, For some time now, it has been evident has social commitments to keep at both especially when he's asleep. I know some that the temptations of campus life have places. Between meals, he will sleep quietly wedding whodidn'treally know he was only a people at Notre Dame who are terribly been too irresistible for my dog to deal with in his room; but at lunch or suppertime, he D. 0' G. Given the chance, he would bright, but they are not the least bit cute, virtuously. There are the dining halls, for becomes restless, like a vampire sensing probably have invited himself along on the and I wouldn't choose one of them for a 
example. I, myself, am rarely disposed to that the moon is rising. Then he watches for· honeymoon, with the option of sleeping at roommate. As a roomate, Darby is the make the trek from Keenan to the South the moment your back is turned, and the the feet of lovers. perfect companion. Dining Hall for the purpose of eating lunch. next news you hear is that he is off, playing But my purpose in writing these lines is He loves children, but since he needs Mealtimes with friends, on the other hand, musical chairs with the Stroganoff-for-lunch not to publicize the indiscretiom.;ofan animal attention himself, he is sometimes are one of Darby's chief · forms of ounch in the food lines. who has. for three years now, been as faith­threatened by them, so he growls at urchins. socializing. Day after day, l hear of There are other kinds of outrage, too, like ful a friend to me as I have been to him, He also growls at other dogs. I suspect 
there is some confusion in his mind between urchins and other dogs, so that he either thinks that other dogs are urchins, or that urchins are other dogs. I'm sorry for the

maybe next time around 
confusion. but I've already told you he is not very bright. Ideally, I think he would make 

joseph abel/ 
an excellent pet for a middle-aged man who Let's face it. when it comes to subject­nice little thing call(,>,d"''Daniel" catches the "Blues" fails, providing a nerve-shaking sleeps alone, under whose bed he can snooze 
at night, and whose socks he can play within

mattPrfor his songs, Elton John makes no imagination wjtff its lighthearted and picture of an underworld per.<,;~mality and a 
early morning romps. Ideally, I think he

hones about which side of the Atlantic carefree 1)1elody. Something new for John good rocking song. The brass arr~gement 
would make an excellent companion for

butters his bread. He and Bernie Taupkm a·ppears: keyboards other than piano, in here enhances the effect to produce oo.e of 
someone like me; but perhaps if he himself 

prcwed this with the inadequately­this case electric piano and mellotron, 'the few well-done songs on the album. t·esearchPd Tumbleweed Connection's something that sets the stage for other songs were consulted. he would have some
side two 
qualifications to make on that point. wdl can songwriters based in England and But then the its begin to go downhill. Side two will have you looking at the label As a dog, he is not Rin-Tin-Tin, and he is ciepiction of the American West. And how sans piano. 
recording in France know the ghetto Sound-pictures are abandoned ·for the to make sure this, isn't that Derek and the not Lassie. As a matteroffact, he isn't much 
streets of New York City?. rockin' sound of "Teacher I Need You" and Dominoc>s Live album with its kickoff at all with his independence and Yet .John and Taupin continue this ap­''Eldeberry Wine." Though the former is reminiscient of "Layla.'' But that lasts only disobedience, but he is all the dog I ever parPnt charade with the presentation of interesting in treatment. in particular the a fewseconds and goes into a bluesy"Have had, and fora whilenow, he has practically their latest effort. Don't Shoot Me, I'm Only mixing of background vocals and mellotron Mercy on the Criminal." You're right; John been my family. But if you can love him and the Piano Player. an obvious play for the in the chorus. there's no sincerity in either can't do blues any better than rock and roll; give him better care than I do, I will con­nostalgia kick everyone seems to be on. work. They're too flashy and unc·onvincing. the sincerity thing blows it again --he just sider giving him to you, if you want to apply. SPeing the success of such workks as Johnny And in both these examples, John himself seems to plastic in a song that demands He is not for sale or rent. I couldn't set a Hivers' "Hockin' Pneumonia and Boogie can take the blame, for Bernie Taupin's realism. price on him, and I think he would be Woogie Flu" and Loggins and Messina's lyrics are of the same quality as before, if ''I'm Going to be a Teenage Idol" moves ashamed to know I made any commercial "Your Momma Don't Dance," it's no not improved, for his research into slowly, but somehow works, perhaps transactions involving his destiny for less wonder that John hit the bullseye as far as American Nostalgia is much deeper than in because it seems to be giggling at !itself. than a million dollars. which is hardly the popularity is concerned. his previous work. But the music just "Texas Love Song" laughs outright in its market price for a \cocker spaniel that 
doesn't match. And John makes things matching lyrics like limps. I would be content to know he has a
commercial 

won~e by adding arrangements like that home where he is taken care of, and where. But beneath the cheap pop tactics, the sometimes, he will be allowed to think of
1abrasive prass on "Eldeberry Wine." So it's Ki-i-yippie-yi-yi
musical uniqueness of John tries to peep me.
"Blues for Baby and Me" is a confused You long hairs are sure gonna die
through. Unfortunately, the commerical Along with the dog, there come one red
song that attem~ts to create a sound-picture Goddamit you're all gonna die 
seems to rule the artist this time around and rubber boot, terribly worn, since it was
out of a blusey ~~~ and fails miserably.
most of what starts out promising often Darby's first toy; one yellow rubber bone
"Midnight Creeper~' succeeds where
degenerates into more lukewarm rock and roll or idiotic matching of lyrics to music. 
The main problem here, though, is not that rock and roll is bad but that Elton .John is not the man who can do it well. John's voice and Taupin's lyrics are much more suited to the Madman Across the Water type of music: sound pictures of personalities. The pathos Elton .John is1capable of singing is incredible in songs like that~ 
But no: Elton .John would rather do just passable rock and roll, so we've got to sit through it to get to the good stuff. Hanky Chateau began the degeneration from th~ brilliance of Madman, though a few gems glPamed ("Rocket Man," "Salvation," "Slave." and especially "Mona Lisas and Mad Hatters"), and Don't Shoot Me takes it another step furthpr 
The album's best is the very first: a 

CAC Presents: 



MACUNAIMA 
95 minutes Minutes of Brazil Nuts 
Sat., March 3rd (8, 10, 12pm) 
$1 
at: Eng. Aud. 
with a love song tune and a wrong-dialect that squeaks; a doggy pacifier that the \'Oice (you're singing about Texas, Elton, squeak is gone out of; a red plastic dish for not Kentucky). Personal experience tells water; a yellow plastic dish, initialled for 
me Taupin's done his homework; the lyrics puppy chow: a new chain leash with a are pretty close to what it's like. To bad leather strap dented only slightly by teeth; John doesn't match it. and an A.K.C. registration.
"Crocodile Rock" is about the only out In the annals of the Kingdom qf the Lonely and out rock and roll that works, mainly God, I guess the separation between . because John and Taupin have captured the Darby O'Gill and me will not be one of the 
50's image so well in the brief four minutes. epic stories. Even if the context of my own Finally, "High Flying Bird" brings the life. I am more threatened by the thought of 
album full circle and \ends it on as gentle a losing anyone of the Juniors or Seniors who nbte as "Daniel"tbegan it. may be forced out of Keenan by the housing Elton John's been doing rock and roll shortage\ than 'I am by the loss of my dog, piano since his first album, but until now has because I need people more than I need a reserved it for "fun" songs, concentrating pel, no matter how dear he is. But on more "serious" songs. Now he seems to somehow. Darby's leaving seems like the have reversed that. Too bad. Maybe he'll beginning of sadness over thQse who maylearn before the next time around, 'cause he go. I must say to them as I say to Darby, "I 
sure needs it. 
Observer 


Ads Try them-­They work 

For YOU 
never said I didn't love you." 

If You're Gonna Get It Cut , Get It Cut Weill 
The way your hair looks makes a difference to you. The three expert stylists at the Windjammer know this. They are willing to take the time to find out exactly what you want. That makes a difference. 


All Services By Appointment --Call Now 

Ohe WinJjammer 
HAll STYLING FOI DISCIIMINA TINO MEN & lOTS 

1637 Lincoln Wav w. Closed Mondays Phone 232·6622 
6 the observer Thursday, March 1, 1973 
. 
I 






KELLER & WEBB 
FREE 
Washington Hall 9:00pm Saturday, March 3 
S. U. Social Commission 



Play Misty For Me 
March 1

FREE 
7:30 & 10 pm 

I I 
t 

Eng. Aud.

I I t I I t t l 
-----------------.. 
Thursday, March 1, 1973 the observer 
On ROTC at ND 
ALUMNI CLUB 

THURSDAY:
Draft end has no effect 
March 1st-­
by Greg Rowinski Staff Reporte· 

Enrollment in Notre Dame HOTC programs has not suffered from the ending of the draft, ac­cording to representatives of the three military services un campus. The three agreed, though, it is still too early to make any predictions for the future. 
Colonel Alvin J. Gendron, who recruits for Army ROTC in neigh­boring counties in Indiana, noted some loss in draft-motivated, Pnrollment already. but felt that the overall effect would be low at such a prestigious university as Notre Dame. 
State schools would bear the brunt of the loss of recruits who are draft-motivated. while the scholarship offer to such an in­stitution as Notre Dame would still 
hi.• a sufficient incentive, said 
GPndron. 
Navy Commander Robert L. 

(;pnnette. Exectuvie Officer of 
Notrp Dame Navy ROTC, said that 
no valid fugures were vet available to indicate any drops due to the ending of the draft. 
Gennette said that the number of dropouts from this year's elapses was "not unusually large" and did not demonstrate any cause-effect relationship. 
Air Force ROTC officers an­ticipated some losses in their program, but the actual numbPr has been less than expected, ac­cording to Air Force Captain DPnnis W. Shepherd. 
All three officers agreed that the programs should be stronger as a result of the limination of draft­related recruits. 
"The ones we recruit now are interested in a career or want to sample what. the Army has to of­fer." according to Gendron. 
Shepherd stated that recruits now would be motivated by curiosity or the attractive scholarship incentive. 
GPnnette expressed a "wait and see'' attitude. He felt it was significant that there has been "no wholesale exodus" from NROTC at the beginning of the year when the 

The Arts and Letters Student Advisory Council has announced that the first of its no-credit 6­session mini-courses will begin this Pvening when Charles S. Reddy, lfniversi ty insurance officer, hPgins his discussion of Fur.­
Former ND artist dead 
NPws of the death of Enrique 

E:.hevPITia's has been received at 
tlw University of Notre Dame 
\\'here he served as visiting artist 
in l\Hi4-65. 
Considered to be one of 

1\l('xico'sfive leading artists, 
Edwverrias reportedly died last 
fall. 
THIS SUMMER IN L.A. 
CATCH UP OR GET AHEAD. 
Make Full Time ProgressToward Your Degree 
I I I 

Need a few extra units to catch up or get ahead? Spend this Summer in L.A. We offer fully accredited bacca­laureate and graduate programs in 56 academic areas during our regular Summer Quarter. Full credential program, too. 
Choose Day or Evening Classes I 
I I 

Our classes are scheduled mornings, afternoons, and evenings. All are small. All facilities are air conditioned. And our distinguished regular faculty of scholars and scientists will be here, supplemented by outstanding visiting professors. 
Take Advantage of Our low Fees I 
I I 

No tuition for legal residents of California. For others, our out-of-state fee is lower than the tuition most other universities charge for limited summer sessions. 
CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY, LOS ANGELES* 
GETS IT TOGETHER I 
I I 

_Now Discover How Easily You Can Get to Us I I I 
I Admissions Officer I California State University, Los Angeles 1 
I 5151 State University Drive 
I Los Angeles, CA 90032 1 I'd like to make progress toward my degree this Summer on your campus. 
I Please send me an application form plus information on your degree I programs. housing, and transportation. 
I Name I 
1 Address --­I City -----------Zip____. I I Presently Attend ----------Major___ 
*A slate-~upported institution of 25,000 students, formerly known as Cali­fornia State College, Los Angeles. 

'Mini-course' series to begin 
damentals of Insurance.  session. at 6:30 in room 212 of the  
According  to  Neil  Rosini,  March 2 Spm Washington HallComputing Center. On Thursday,  
president of the advisory council,  March 22, the second session will  
"!his mini-course and  others  we  cover  "Life  Insurance"  in  so~ Cinema '73 patrons freeroom  
are  planning will  be designed  to  265 of Nieuwland. Session Three on  
give students useful, practical information in areas important to  March 29, will deal with "Medical and Health Insurance." The final  ·  Producer  Tony  Bill  (N.D. Graduate)  will  in­ 
modern  life.  but  relativelY.­ three sessions on April 5, 12 and 26  troduce  the  film  and  answer  questions  af­ 
unemphasized  in  genel)a;f  will  cover  areas  that  students  terwards  

education. Insurance ~~-1,~~~q~u:e~s~t~·-----------~===========~=================~
damPntals is one of thes~-and r­\\'t>'ve asked an expert in ,tt'e field, l\1r. Charles Reddy, to Jllform students of the facts of';,nsurance before they have •to ask a salesman. All mej:i'lbers of the university commtHuty are invited to any or all sessions." 
The lnsura<nce Fundamentals series wjll cover "Fire, Home and i\uto Insurance" in tonight's 


I 
I 
1 
draft's end was general conceded. Next year's freshman class will 
Irish Coffee Special 60 cents
provide a better forecase of guture 
Pnrollment, he added. 

Ladies Nite Specia I: Whiskey Sours 40 cents Gendron reported that 15 percent 
(1-112 price mixed drink with Bengal Bouts Stub) of the Sophomore class had dropped out. However, the fact 
FRIDAY& SATURDAY SPECIALS: 
that all 6500 full scholarships 
Scotch & Mix--40 cents

allotted to Army ROTC nationwide were awarded this year for the 
All Collins'--60 cents first time in years indicates that the present ROTC programs at 293 
March intorduces Irish Coffee 

universities will continue to be 
(For the Irish & Everyone--Try it)

stocked. 
Fifteen AFROTC sophomores dropped out of the program this ~-ear. reported Shepherd. and he also noted that, although the mrollment of cadets may have been reduced, the number of of­ficers commissioned has not. 
Gendron emphasized that HOTC's purpose isn't to recuirt active duty offices. Rather, it commissions men who would spend time in the Reserves and the "nucleus of an expanded ar­my" in time 9f national rmergency, when all would be serving in the nation's defense. 

1 
.. .,. " r 1C II' r ~ 'P. 'If 11:: t" l. t" t I l" ,. '' \L • ,,' ..: r.l o: "' • ~ '' " ~ • 


the observer Thursday, March 1, 1973
8 

Cagers weather WMU comeback 
by Vic Dorr treated ND's tournament hopes 
Notre Dame's young basketball with anything but respect. team, which has been harboring Down 47-30 at halftime, Western NIT hopes for the past several Michigan scored the first two 
weeks, took giant steps toward a buc~ets of the second half, and tourney invitation during the first sustained that pace for the first half of last night's 76-65 win over nine minutes of the final period. Western Michigan. Coach Eldon Miller's Broncos 
But then the Irish, during the outscored Notre Dame 17-10 during second half of their clash with the that span and took off on another Broncos, watched the visitors from spurt just minutes later. Kalamazoo mount a rally that Freshman guard Frank Kur-
Jim Don a I dson ===============:=======:==============================::::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::~ 
The Irish Eye 
:===========:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::l:!:::::======::=::::::::~::::;:;:=:=:=:=:= BengoIs forecast 
;h~ 42nd annual Beng~l Bouts enter the third and final round tonight at ll I M. m the ACC and, hke the last round of a three-round fight there prom1ses to be plent~ of acti<_m, excitement, and good boxing. ' 
Boxers go all out 1_n the f1nal round, knowing that victory or defeat ~~.rten de~ends on the1r perfo~mance in the closing minutes. Sunday and lul'sday s bouts were the f1rst two "rounds" for the 18 boxers who r<'achud the finals. Tonight's "third round" will determine the cham­pions. 
, Th<'re'll b_e a n~w _titlist in the 125-pound class, as first-year boxers Sll'vt·. Morns. a JUmor, and Tom Garrity, a sophomore, square off. l\1orrrs has yet to ~e f'xtended, winning unanimous decisions over Carlos ~mit.h and Marc R_onquillo, and, although Garrity easily handled Mike <ramt>r m the sem1s, he narrowly won a split decision over Eli Guajardo Sunday. Give the nod to Morris. 
Two-limP 135-pound champion Pat McGrath will defend his crown agamst last year's 125-pound king, Larry Semerad. A junior, McGrath l:as yet to los~ in six Ben~al appearances. He was extended by Matt <avanaugh_. h1s oppone~t. m l~st year's 135-pound finals, Tuesday and <'n~Prgedwlth a ~pht dec1s1on v1c~ory. Semerad pummeled veteran Jerry B1 adley m the first round two mghts ago, but then tired badly and was hard pressed to hold off the spunky senior at the end. 
With ~n t>dge in size, speed and conditioning, McGrath should keep his unblem1shed record intact. 
Steve Duffy. a finalist two years ago, and Tom Hudes meet in the 140­pound c_lass. J?uff~. an easy winner over Greg Benninghoff Tuesday, was IJ~aten m the .7_1 IItle match by Tom Kress but doesn't figure to suffer a ~1m1lar fate th1s time around. His opponent, Tom Hudes, won easily Sunday but was awarded a controversial, split decision triumph Tuesday over Ray Kern. 
Th~ 145-pound m~tchup shapes up as one of the better attractions on the ll'n-f1ght card. Sen1or Mike Suddes, the '71 150-pound champ will battle Charley Morrison, fighting _in his third Bengals tourney. ' . Suddes. ~h? possesses a fme knowledge of boxing techniques, breezed Ill Sunday_ s first round but_ was de_cided!y unaggressive Tuesday and, whl'n the JUdges awarded h1m a spht decision O'Vtr\Bill Pioli the crowd noisily voiced its disapproval. ' 
Morrison lost ~o a pair of champions (Kress and Gary Canori) his first two years but th1s year owns a split decision win over Mike Regan and a \"lctory over Tom Hanlon, who whipped Suddes in the semis of the 145­pound class in '72. 
. A Morrison ~ictory would rate as an upset but, if Suddes fights like ne d1d Tuesday. 11 wouldn't be surprising. 
Th~ 155-pound division features the "final-that-won't-be". Fifth-year architecture student Ken McCandless was to have met senior Jim Burkart but an arm injury has forced Burkart to withdraw from the ~·om petition. 
It"s a pity. because both fighters were offense-minded and the match shaped as a good one. After polishing off AI Koch, McCandless bested the dl'fel_ldmg 155-pou~d champ, Mike Sanders, Tuesday. Burkart reached !he I mats by TKO mg John Sherry and thrashing last year's runner-up 
rom Bole. ' McC~tldl~ss will be fighting tonight, but his opponent has yet to be d<'ll'rmmes. 
liard-hitting Jim L~pleywill face th~ more stylistic Jerry Samaniego in' th~ lliO-pound champ1?nsh1p. Lep~ey 1sn'tsmoothbut packs a big wallop. I~< ~cored a TKO agamst Tom W1lbur Sunday and won a wild bout with K!'\"1 n Poupore Tuesday. Only a gutsy effort by Poupore enabled the B-P soph to stand up under Lepley's barrage of punches. 
.~amanieg? has a p~i~ ofunanimousdecisions to his credit, including a mce JOb agamst prom1smg freshman Chet Zawalich. Samaniego can win lhl' Iitle. but only if he outboxes Lepley and doesn't become flustered by Ius all-out attack. .. The ·~feature·· bo_ut of the night will come in the 165-pound division. 
I hree-tlml' champ1on Holand Chamblee and his old rival Bill 1\ll'Grath. clash for the third time in the Bengal careers. Both are s~niors and t~o of the fi~l'st boxers in "Nappy" Napolitano's program. 
As freshmen. m the '70 Bengals, the pair squared off for the 160-pound rha!fl_PJOnshlp and , Chamblee emerged the winner. taking a split ci<'CISIOn. McGrath spent the next year abroad but returned to meet C'hamhll'e again in the semis of the 165-pound class in '72. 
Aftl'r Chamblee recorded an early knockdown, McGrath came back and l'ven held a slight advantage after two rounds. Chamblee however attacked furiously in the last round and a knockdown just bef~re the bell l'nablPd him to win the split dedsion. 
1\lt'Grath knocked off two-time champion Ed Carney in order to !!el anothl'r shot at Chamblee, who KO'd an outclassed JOe Szady in his first hout. Chamblee looks narrowly the best from this t·orner. It'll be a dandy. 
. Th<' 175-pound Ltle fight promises to be anything but anti-climactic. l <:ell B~Jot.last_year's runner-up,_and a winner over Frank Flanagan and i\llk<' \\ l'lsh 1~h1s t1me around, w1ll try to be the first fighter to last the chstance agamst hard-hitting Mike McGuire. 
l\ll'Guir<' is hardly a classic boxer, but he's one heck of a puncher. He surprlst>d (;porge Nelson Sunday with a TKO and then dropped defending champiOn Pat Steenberge three times Tuesday to score another TKO win 
If !VIcGuire can catch the much faster Boot, he'll be a titlist. · 
Therl' were only two heavyweights entered in this year's tourney, JWrha~ _because of the way defending champion Mike Webb druninated the d1v1s1on last year. Webb, who blasted his way to the '72 championship \nth hiSlWCSO!flepower. faces another veteran of last year's bouts, Frank Basanese. Smce Basanese lost last year to Bob Moorman, who was dt>stroyl'd by Wl'bb in the finals, it looks like Webb will be a repeat win­nl'r. 
Student tickets for tonight's action are availble for $1.50. 

Pete Crotty lofts a shot over WMU's Frank Ayers. Crotty had IS points and II rebounds in last night's triumph over the Broncos. 

very little difficulty. Two free tlw whole difference in the ball throws by Dwight Clay gave ND a game. When you get out-12-lllead five minutes into the first rebounded like we did <the first half. and put the Broncos behind to half spread was 27-18), you will stay. The Irish followed Clay's free never win a ball game. This, along throws with nine straight points, with our first half turnovers and led 23-ll with 12:05 remaining allowed Notre Dame to get so·far in the half. . . <lhead that we couldn't catch up." 
Wl'stern M1ch1gan closed to .John Shumate's 26 points led all within seven (26-19) on Ayer's scorers. but three other ND squirming lay-up with 9:28left, but starters also finisi.ed in double Simmate netted a free throw and a figures . .Crotty notched 15 for the ~ay-up. Clay popped in a corner Irish. Novak 13, and Clay 12.. JUmper. and Crotty hit a free throw Ayer's 20 points paced Western and Gary Novak a follow shot to Michigan's scoring. give the Irish a 33-19 cushion. Thl' Irish will play their regular­
"Notre Dame is a very fine season finale on Saturday at the basketball team," said WMU ACC. ND's opponent in that game­coach Eldon Miller. "They are a -a regionally-televised contest-­\'ery physical and good shooting will be South Carolina's nationally­ball club. and they killed us on the ranked Gamecocks, and tipoff is boards in the first half. That was slated for 1:30 p.m. 
Achterhoff earns spot in finals 
by Lefty RuschmC''ln 
Freshman heavyweight Jay Achterhoff earned 'a spot in next months NCAA national wrestling championships, winning four of five matches in regional com­petition at the Eastern In­aependent Universities .~ational Qualifying Tournament, ht!ld 0\'er the weekend in Cincinnati, Ohio . 
The weekend tourney, which attracted entries from some 35 colleges in the eastern half ot he country, featured three Notre Dame performers including Achterhoff, 150-pound Rich Gilloon (alias. Mikel and 142-pound David Boyer. 
Achterhoff placed third in his \\"l'ight class with a 4-1 record, his 
Letter voices ice enthusiasm 
Notre Dame's hockey team is playing away from home this wt>ekend. but that hasn't affected the enthusiasm of two faculty nwmbers and hockey fans, Albin Szewczyk and Ray Brach. 
The pair have made plans to send a letter to the Irish before their crucial eight-point series at 1\1 innesota-Duluth which says, "Good luck! Hope you sweep two from Duluth and come back to home ice." 
Szewczyk and Brach hope to get as many signatures as possible on the letters and have been cir­eulating copies among faculty nwmbers. Students wishing to sign a copy made do as The Ob­sen·er office between IO~ooa.m. and :I:OOp.m. 

only loss coming at the hands of Pventual heavyweight champion Lee of Ball State by a 7-3 score following a 15-4 victory. over Sparma of host school Cincinnati. In the wrestle-back phase of competition, Achterhoff posted three consecutive victories, in­cluding a 3-1 decision over Anthony of Morehead State and a quick pin at 0:48 against Levinick of Wisconsin. Achterhoff's fourth win of the night came in a battle for third place and the last berth in the NCAA finals.which he won with a pin at 2:54 of the second period. 
Hich Gilloon split his six mat­ches at Cincinnati en route to a sixth-place finish in the regionals. 
Freshman Dave Boyer closed out <lll outstanding season with a fifth-place finish in the regional tourney. winning two of his four 
weekend bouts. Boyer's 2-2 regional record accounted for a 19-9 season log, second only to "Ace" Rocek and a rl'cord high victory total for a non­heavyweight competitor. 
B-ba/1 pep rally 
With Notre Dame's chanres for a National Invitational Tolli-nament bid resting on the odtcome of Saturday afternoof'l's game against South Carolina. a basketball pep ralW to build en­thusiasm has beeri scheduled for Friday night at 7 p.m. in Stepan Cmter. 
~oach Dick ."Digger" Phelps, .John Shumate and Gary Novak will speak at ~e rally. 
BENGAL BOUTS 
ACC-Thursday at 8:00 pm 
Ad--courtesy of Marquis de Queensbury and Student Government 





