On The Inside 
Admiral's feed sa les ...... page 4 Anotrer armed robbery..... page 10 

serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Thursday, February 1, 1973
Vol. VII, No. 71 


Future female dormitories ? 
The plan would mean a disproportionate by George· Brown number of seniors and juniors in the selected 
Staff Reporter hall. As a result fewer sophomores and no fresh­men would be dislocated whne the chosen hall was finally converted.. · 
The ~election of future female dormitories is tied to admissions quotas just as the selection of Badin. Walsh, Farley, and Breen-Phillips were, Faccenda said the proposal was interesting according to Dr. Philip Faccenda, acting vice but that he wanted the committee to consider all president of student affairs. plans without the influence of having any par­
ticular approach labeled as "favored." 

Faccenda indicated in an interview yesterday that it was unlikely that quotas for the 1974-75 The vice president said that he feared school year would be determined before producing an upper class hall because the December of 1973. residents might turn apathetic to campus ac­
tivities since they would graduate in 1974. 

The admission factor, Faccenda said, would "make it impossible to speculate on the hall to be 
reversal possible

picked I for 1974-75) at this time, but, in order to keep the problems of dislocation at a minimum, it will be necessary to work along with the ad­
missions office step by step in order to insure but chances not 
adequate housing for the women." 

too great

committed 
In a related interview Fr. James Reihie, dean of s~udents and director of student housing, admitted that there was "a possibility" that Notre Dame might reverse its decision not to

to decision 
allow female students to live off campus next year. He indicated that the possibility was not very great. 
Faccenda, who chairs a newly formed com­Reihle suggested that a change of universitymittee of rectors select SLC members and hall 
presidents, indicated that he was open to any poli_cy for next :year would be a "great help" in proposal for relocating displaced students from easmg the stram of relocating displaced male 
Farley and Breen Phillips which the committee students. He did not elaborate on the reasons for this conclusion.
might generate. 

"I am committed to the committee's decision. The relocation committee will meet for the The opinion of the majority in this problem first time Friday to begin formulating specific would be the best one." Faccenda said. plans for displaced! Farley and B-P residents. 



Shilts, Schuneman favor room guarantees 
by Steve Magdzinski men:• Schuneman echoed those sentiments, but campus to aid the resident in making their Staff Reporter 
added that he fears a backlash from students choice of halls. from other halls, who would not be guaranteed
Fr. James Shilts, Rector of Farley Hall, and Bt>th recotrs and Singleton indicated the menrooms.
Fr. John Schuneman, Rector of Breen-Phillips of their respective halls have accepted their fate According to Farley Hall President ChrisHall. both favor guaranteed on-campus rooms very well.
Singleton, the University officers have pledgednext year for the displaced residents of their "They've been great about it," said Shilts.
that no one from the two halls will be forced offhalls. However, neighter, totally favors the idea "They're disappointed, but they're acceptingcampus. But Singleton also expressed the fearof the men moving to dorms in blocks, as was it."
that "the rest of the campus won't see it as fair."
done last year by the residents of Badin and Schuneman said the displacement of the menAlthough some students in the two hallsWalsh. 
"is just one of those things you have to godefinitely want to move in blocks, SchunemanShilts said he hoped the University would live through for coeducation."

feels "it is not a good thing," because each halls up to its promise of guaranteeing rooms for the has its own culture and moving in blocks may establish 'a subculture within a culture . .'" He added that many of those who moved in blocks from Badin and Walsh this year were not ac­cepted as they had hoped. 
''I'm not convinced either way about the block system," Shilts stated. "It is appealing, I know, but I think the men should mix more completely with the hall." · 
If the men are allowed to move in blocks, there would be very little chance they would be able to move in large numbers, admitted Singleton, because they will be choosing their new dorms 

j
about three weeks before room picks. They will then pick rooms on the same basis as those already in the hall. "We simply won't be able to move 20 to 25 people at once." 
The Farley-BP committee planning the 
relocation of the men is assembling a description 
of the living conditions within each of the halls on 
Fr. James Shilts, Rector of Farley Halll President 
Fariey Hall, hopes Chris Singleton expressed 
University lives up to fear in pledgE~ that no one 
promise guaranteeing from the two halls will be 
rooms for Farley Hall forced off-campus. 
residents. 



warld 

brief• 
(C) 1973 The New York Times 
Washington--President Nixon announced Wednesday that he was sending Henry Kissinger to Hanoi for a three-day effort to make the peace more secure and lay the groundwork for reconstruction of Southeast Asia. The president said Kissinger's trip, which will begin Feb. 10, would be followed in the spring by a meeting of his own with President Thieu, who would confer with the President at San Clemente. Nixon made the announcement at a news conference, the first he had held since Oct. 5. 
Saigon--In South Vietnam, word of the Thieu-Nixon meeting came as fighting continuedto sputterana Ilaremore than three days after the cease-fire. A government source said the meeting of the two heads of state was arranged several weeks ago as an inducement to gain Thie~'s support of the peace agreement. 
Washington--Sen. John C. Stennis was in "very serious condition" after being shot by robbers in front of his Washington home. The shooting drew expressions of shock and dismay from President Nixon and many congressmen, who called for passage of anticrime measures. 
Washington--President Nixon restated his well-known opposition to amnesty for draft evaders. "Those who deserted must pay their price." said the President, "and the price is not a junket in the Peace Corps." but "a criminal penalty for disobeying the laws of the United States." 
an campus taday 
7: 30--meeting--philosopher's circle, stapleton 
lounge, smc 7,la7!a: 30--lecture, prof james bishop: "politicization and changing aspects of caste," india '73 series, carroll hall, smc 8:00--lecture, prof. v. vardys: "rising liberalism and nationalism in the soviet union," library auditorium 


at nd-smc: 

Job outlook getting better for this year's graduates 
by Greg Rowinski Engineering and science other business majors will also the Bureau's mailing list recruit 5: I addition-deletion ratio, plus the 
Staff Reporter students who entered graduate face a friendly job market, with actively each year. Thirty-eight very addition of thirty eight to the 
school apprehensively now have financemajors especially in­employers have been added to the 150 scheduled, impressed 
"Hiring quotas are up" for "career possibilities much better teresting a growing number of spring recruiting schedule, while Willemin. graduating seniors and those with than anticipated," according to recruiters from banking in­only seven have cancelled.. This 
postgraduate degreees, accorfding Willemin. stitutions. to Hichard Willemin, director of Graduating seniors can take This year's outlook for Arts and the Placement Bureau. heart wit "a good solid increase" Letters grads is "a little better" 
Employers have shown "a in the demand for those with than that of the last two years, but turnabout in their willingness" to bachelor degrees, added Willemin. still is not on a par with that of send an additional recruiter to Master and Doctor degreees are Business Administration grads. campus. said Willemin. more in demand this year than in Economics majors, with This willingness, he suggests, the past two years. Advanced backgrounds in banking and 
implies that the employers are degrees in Engineering are business economics, will be in ready to accept the expense of such "particularly strong" recom­highest regard. a policy and to encourage mendations with employers, with Willemin feels that employers prospective applicants to seek out the openings possibly "out­"recognize the quality of Notre 
the recruiters, with renewed hope stripping the students available." Dame graduates", even when of obtaining employment. Research and development will employment quotas are down. The 
Willemin regards this as an provide "pretty good possibilities" interest in Notre Dame students indication of an increasing job for those with grad degrees. has been strong, even over the last market. and, possibly, a moving "A good solid increase" has been two years, when other collegians (•conomy. "More positions are in realized in the demand for were suffering from a tight job the open". he said, and the em­graduating seniors. market. ployers are able to select the best Accounting grads will "have a He emphasized that one-fifth to students as candidates to fill them. choice of many companies." The one-third of the 1236 employers on 


Church study to start here 
An interdisciplinary study of following a Vatican suggestion that in Contemporary Society was church vocations has been started national offices be established to established at Notre Dame in 1961, at the University of Notre Dame coordinate vocations efforts and under the direction of Dr. George under a $20,960 grant from the promote public understanding of N. Shuster. to foster in­National Center for Church vaocations needs. NCCV was terdisciplinary research in the Vocations <NCCVl in Detroit, founded by a National Conference humanities anrl the social sciences. 1\lich. of Catholic Bishops, the Con­
Mardi Gras Kickoff Party Friday, 8:30 • 12:30 South Bend Armory Tickets ($5/cpl) available at Student Union Ticket Office and at the door 
Bus Service to the Armory 
Leaving ND Circle 
via SM C Parking Lot 
To the Armory: Leave Armory: 8:00pm 11:00 pm8:30 11:30 
8:45 11:45 9:15 12:15 am 9:30 12:30 
10:00 l: 00 10: 15 

executive director, said the grant Superiors of Men and the 
t

to Notre Dame's Center for the Leadership Conference of Women Study of Man in Contemporary Heligious. 
t

Society is underwriting the study's The Center for the Study of Man first phase, which will culminate in 
a detailed and documented Studebaker Club J 
Hev. Edward J. Baldwin, NCCV ference of Major Religious 
r-----~-------------------~ 
research blueprint, including 
methodology. rationale and The Michiana Chapter of the potential funding sources, to be Studebaker Drivers Club will host implemented in phase two. Notre the monthly opening of. the City of I>anw is eontributing an additional South Bend's Studebaker $5,000 to the first phase research. Historical Vehicle Collection, 
The project's director, Dr. Sunday. February 4. ('a rroll W. Tageson, a psychologist The Collection is opened to the and associate professor of public with free admission from <•ducation at Notre Dame, said the 12:30 to 5:30 p.m. As an extra rPsearch "will be designed to feature this month, the movie rdat(• to the practical needs of "Beyond a Promise" will be \'Oca tiona I directors." Tageson shown. The Collection is located on said a national consulting board of the corner of Lafayette and professionals in the vocations field Bronson Streets. 
will llp involved in the planning phase. 
Tageson's study team will in· n•ntory research findings in the \'ocations area and examine various explanatory models used in the past. narrowing down the questions which need further research. Phase one is expected to be completed in December, 1973. NCCV was formed in 1969 
The Obser~r is published daily during the c liege semester except vacations the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may 
be purchased for SB per semester ( 14 per year) from The Observer, Elox Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
t 
f 
f 


Visit the Worlds of t · Town &Country -Riverpark J Liquors 
1 
Party Supplies For A Brg Mardi Gras f Week t 

Vo~,kag a 1~ 956 I'~'''''''''"'"'''''SPECAL''''''''''ll 
P ~~~a $906 li!. Schlitz & ~~ 
, Coke odm .. Miller ft 7 -Up t High Life tt 


ii:: 
~:::::::::c:~;==;:=r:~::::::~::~:::~r===~=:;===;==rr::::::::::::::::::::::::::~ t 
Watch Mardi *Best Beer Prices in t Gras Week Town 1 ForM ardi Gras* Wine Cellar t 

t *Keg Beer t
Specials
South Bend's Newest 
t *Cold & Warm t 
t t

THE RED DOOR CLUB 
t TOWN & RIVER t
BEER * WINE * LIQUOR 


' COUNTRY PARK I
Stop In/ 

t LIQUOR LIQUOR t 
Memberships Available 
ANB 

~ Town & Country Shpg Ct 2411 Mish. Ave. I 
OPEN 11 am to 3om 

Thursday, February 1, 1973 the observer 
3 

Renovation committee continues studies 
by Tom Drape Staff Reporter 

The Committee for LaFortune entered its "phase two" in efforts to renovate the Student Center by establishing sub-committees to study the proposals from the viewpoints of philosophy, promotion and feasibility, and to recalculate their timetable. 
Meeting in Robert Ackerman's ldirector of Student Activities) office last night, the Committee divided into 3 main areas of study. The sub-committees are the Philosophy Study, Promotional Study, and Feasability Study. The Committee agreed that the em­phasis must first be on developing a philosophy, as Ackerman put it, "Clf what the students want the student center to be in the Notre Dame com~unity." 
Ken Knievel, 4th year ar­chitecture student and committee member, reported to the com­mittee that "any actual work can not. realistically speaking, be initiated until the summer after next." Knievel outlined the redefined schedule into 3 parts; the· completion of propos.ll sketches this semester, completion of structural sketches next year, and "hopefully initiation towards the end of next year and that sum­mer." 
Defining the LaFortune com­mittee's main goals, Knievel cited efforts toward student interest, initiation, and ideas and secondly, research for plans and drawing. "We must be able to go before the Trustees with several different plans and a philosophy for any hope of success in renovation," he said. 
The sub-committees were decided upon to "speed. up" the Committee's work. Each is assigned the task of meeting separately within the next 2 weeks. 
At that time the Committee will reconvene to put together and polish the studies proposals. 
The Philosophy Study, according to Jim McDermott, will be se.ar­ching for a basis from which to build further actions. They will particularly be interested in outside .sources on student union philosophy and other unions in general. 
The problem of student awareness and subsequent in­volvement will be the objective of the Promotional Study. Com­menting on the direction of their efforts, Knievel said, "the most important need we have is media presentation." Common in agreement was the idea that presentation and subsequent feedback will promote studlent interests to be felt. 
Terming the aim of the Feasability study as "determining traffic patterns, office space 
Coex zneal changes desired 
by Bob Johnson Staff Reporter 

Student Government would like to see a revamp of the present coex ticket exchange program with St. Mary's and also student recognition of the. Food Services Committee. according to Bob Maykuth, Research and Development Commissioner. 
Maykuth feels the present coex program is unfair to many students because of the ticket distribution. Under the program, St. Mary's allots one hundred tickets per night to Notre Dame, which reciprocates by giving St. Mary's one hundred. One hundred is the average number of students who go each night. 
Notre Dame gives two 
predetermined halls fifty tickets 
each. and the twenty-one Notre 
Dame halls are rotated so that 
each hall is able to eat at St. 
Mary's every eleven days. 
Complaints have been made to 
Maykuth about the program. The 
major complaint is that some halls 
miss out on some of the better 
meals. such as "steak nite," at St. 
Mary's because of the gap in which 
they don't go to St. Mary's. 
Maykuth says that the system is 
unfair to many students who want 
tickets but can not get them. He 
attributes this problem to the original ticket distribution. Each Maykuth said he has learned 
hallgets fifty tickets, but not all of that Notre Dame is supposed to the tickets are used. receive one hundred and twenty tickets per night from St. Mary's. According to Maykuth, the He feels that the program can be tickets may not get to the hall rearranged so that three halls go presidents or to the section leaders on each qight, thereby shortening in time for the students to go, the gap in between visits to St. because of previous Mary's. With the extra tickets, arrangements. If not all the Maykuth can distribute the tickets tickets in one hall are used, then proportionately to three halls on 
the basis of the hall population. 
This procedure would allow each hall to eat at St. Mary's every seven days,instead of the present eleven. Along with this plan, the rotation of the halls ould be staggered so that each hall goes on a different .night each week. This whuld broaden the menu the hall sees. and enlarge the probability of one hall going on a steak night. 
Maykuth would also like to see the Food Service Committee recognized by the students. This committee is comprised of seven members who will study the possibilities on dining hall menu changes. Newly formed, the t·ommittee has yet to decide when it will hold its meetings, but it is hoped that the meetings will be held weekly. 
The committee will direct its attention to proposed changes and student criticism. Maykuth hopes that the students will make use of this new committee. 

Student elections to be discussed 
by Tom Drape Staff Reporter 

The Board of Commissioners will meet next Tuesday at 7:00 
p.m. with the main topic of their agenda. Student Elections '73-74. According to the presem ad­ministration's Minister of Propaganda. Jim Roe, their term will officially expire April 1. "Unless martial lawis declared," added Roe. 
Addressing the subject of up­coming elections. Roe said that the Board of Commissioners will meet to appoint an election committee next Tuesday. "Hopefully, the elections will take place before weleave for Spring Break," said Hoe. Paul Dzeidzic or Greg Smith are early choices for the com­mittee's membership, according to unofficial sources. The present Constitution calls for elections to be held by March 10. 
Roe said that the SLC elections 
Michiana Sports 
Car Club 

Meeting 8 pm tonight First Bank & Trust US 31 N & Cleveland Road. Info 272-9914. 
are tentatively scheduled for ten days after the general election. An additional problem of replacing Frank Devine's seat, the representative from the Dillon­Badin-Walsh district, who failed to return this semester, will also have to be taken up at that time, stated Roe. "As of right now, there is some question on how to replace his seat," he said. 
The General elections are preceded by a primary each to decide the office of President and Vice-President. Roe was unable to specify the intervjil between the primary and general elections. The SLC elections are the election of representatives from each of the six districts. They, along wih the student body President and Vice­President. serve to make up the Board of Commissioners. 
f',.<:!sent student body president, Bob Kersten. was unavailable for comment. Dennis Ettienne Student Provost, replied to th~ question of his possible candidacy with "I really shouldn'i: say." 

We Solve Long Hair Problems 
Long Hair can be a 

problem if it is not shaped 
properly. We will take ·the time to help you find 
the style that best 
fits your need. 

All 
Services By Appointment --Call Now 


Ohe WinJjammer 
HAll STYUNG FOI DISCJt,IMINAnNG MIN & lOTS 
1637 Lincoln Wav w. Closed Mondays Phone 232·6622 
I utilization and specific functions and areas of improvement," Knievel voiced concern over present overlapping functions. As Ackerman commented, "this is the only campus I know of which does not have an informal setting where a few students can share a coke." 
Knievel and the Feasibility Study will be opening an "office" in conjunction with a professional architect and sophomore ar­chitecture students to study the center and proposed sketches in LaFortune within the next week. 
As Terry Skeehan said, "we need creative ideas." Any Student feedback is asked to be channeled through any of the Committee members. The committee members are as follows: 
Philosophy Study : Dan Schipp, Dave Caruso, Sue Darin, Tery Skeehan, Joe Gaziano, Bob Stucke, and H-Man <Dennis Etienne) 
Promotional Study: Jerry Lutkus, Tom Drape, Art' Quinn and Jim McDermott ' 
Feasability Study: Steve Carter, Rod Braye, Mary Anne Gillespie,· and H-Man. 
NASSAU TICKET OFFICE HOURS 
11:30 -12:30 Every Morning 3:00-4:45 Mon., Tues, Wed. 
1:00-3:00 Thurs. Afternoon Located in l.a Fortune -3rd Floor 
Sign up at thE~se times for Nassau 

· ALUMNI CLUB 
Something New 
Live Music 
Thursday & Saturday J 0-? 
0 PEN 7-2 am 

Xtra Happy Hour 4 -6 15< Beers 
Closed This Frida N ite 


The Winery 

Michiana's Only Wine Shop 

*Gormet Food *Cheese *Books *Wine Glasses 
2426 Lincoln Way West Mishawaka 259-9046 4 8/ks fast of Ironwood 
John J· O'Hanlon-Prop., NO '65 
BridalSets-IMPORTED IY 
Also Conc:ord Mall in Elknert Downtown open Mon. & Thurs. 'til 9. Blackmond's open Fri. 'til9, Others nlte 'til9. 

, 
~ 
1
, 
1 
1 
j 
1 
~ 

Staff Reporter 

In the midst of the Committee on Unorthodox Privateering's con­cern for hall food sales operations and an apparent dissatisfaction with them on the part of most hall residents, Holy Cross Hall's "Admiral's Feed Sales" continues for tis second semester with what is probably the freshest, most inexpensive. and yet most profitable food sales on campus. 
And what's more, Holy Cross students enjoy patronizing it. 
"Admiral" is Navv ROTC sophomore Jim Pettengill from Brick Town, New .fersey Togl'ther with a staff of Steve Cahir <Mahwah, N.J.), Tom Lionelli ( Ft. Lauderdale, Fla.) and Paul Ryan <the Bronx), 
Pettengill runs a business enterprise that charges 20 cents for hot dogs 
hut turned over $600 back to the hall at the end of the last semester, !10 per cent of total sales. 
"We tripled in one semester what food sales gave back all last year.'' Pettengill\said-an effective increase of 600 per cent. 
It's true that the rpices at Ad­miral's are extremely low when seen in the light of claims by 
Pettengill's counterparts in the other halls who plead that "prices are as low as they can get." At Holy Cross, soft drinks go for 15 cents a ran, beefburgers for 30 cents, cheeseburgers for 35 cents, potato chips and other bag snacks for 10 cents, pizza for $1.00 and l'igarettes for 40 cents. 
"I don't think I'm supposed to be selling cigarettes that low," said Jim. "but i don't care. It makes it easier on the residents if they can buy a pack that low." 
But the bulk of Admiral-and­crew's success lies not with their fiscal record but with the change thl'y have effected in food sales atmosphere. 
"Last year food sales were a real ripoff," he explained, "and the guys who ran it-who all lived together up in the rafters somewhere--couldn't care less if vou were around or not. It was a hig onl'rour job and nobody wanted it. And that was when profits were being split 50-50. 
"One thing you've got to un­derstand is that our hall has lots of spirit," he went on. "We have a saying: 'There's the University of Notre Dame, and then there's Holy ('ross Hall.' Well, our food sales was just not in the hall spirit. I<:vl'ryone hated to go down there. 
"So Steve <Cahirl, <Tom) Lionelli. Paul Ryan and I went to the hall and asked them if we could 

WhAT'S ThE RELiGiOUS LiFE Li1{E? 
Ask tire Men Wlro Know 
Contact: Fr. Andrew Cifemi, 0. Praem. Holy Cross Hall, 107 UNO 
tele: 283-8185 

Db..rver lnsivht 
have the sales. We told them we'd split ten percent of the profit among ourselves and give the rest back to the hall, while cutting prices as much as we could. They finally agreed to let us have it. Now we're the main source of money around here." 
Hall rector Father Andy Ciferni seems to have been a big part of the switch. He is new to Holy Cross this year, and last year's rector, according to the Admiral, wouldn't allow leeway for food sales people to expand their ser­vices, especially as concerns physical expansion into Holy Cross' spacious basement. 
A resident came by from the adjoining ping-pong room and declared. "Jim. I'm going to ger me some pretzels. Here's a dime." 
"All right," siad Jim taking the coin. "They're in the box." 
The resident ambled over to the open food supply room and picked up his pretzels. And he was not the last--three or four others came with similar requests, and Pettengill pointed the way. 
Buy Holy Cross food sales open at eleven. and this was 10:15 p.m. How could these early sales be? 
"That's another thing about food sales." explained Jim. "As soon as closing time comes in most halls, the sales people close up tight. They couldn't care less about getting you anything, even if you're after a $50 order. And they never open their doors before the hour begins. 
''Here. this year, we have our standing hour, but we four in food sales wander around the hall at all hours, and if somebody wants something, we come down and get if for him." 
The services didn't stop there. "We open after interhall games for our team members," he continued. 
"One o'clock, two o.clock in the morning--whenever they're done. And if a guy comes up to the counter in sweatpants, asks for something and doesn't have any money with him, we give it to him and write the amount on the wall upstairs. It looks like an Egyptian tomb up there. But everyone pays us back." 
After hearing Admiral tell the story--and hearing the hall residents verigy it--one senses that the thrust of Admiral's is not aimed so much at The-Lowest­Price-on-Campus. but at having a 
A NEW LIFE FOR YOU 

Jesus Retreat 
Friday Feb 2  8 pm  
to  
Saturday Feb 3  8 pm  

Call 282-2508 days 283-6868 evenings 
Sponsored by True House a Christian Community at Notre Dame 
place for students to come eat, listen to music (Jim's stereo is situated there), rap and have a good time while other food sales seem more to be extensions of food warehouses, with all the warmth thereof. 
"Now everyone comes down," he claims. proud and smiling. "This is the place to be. We're not so much food sales as a family kitchen." 
The proprietors lend themselves well to the atmosphere. Pettengill said he "gets a kick out of it," and that the rest do too. And each of them has yet to take up his option to get his share of the profits. 
"Cahir--you know, he's a real go-getter," according to Pettengill "--is the life of the party. A student told me once that when he eomes down and sees Cahir at the door. he knows he's not only in for some food. but for entertainment too." It turns out that Steve is an expert at impromptu dance. 
"If you give a damn at all," eoncluded Pettengill, 'you really get excited about it." 
His group has plans for the near future. including acquisition of a eolor TV. initiation of a cof­feehouse and opening food sales Saturday afternoons. 
Probably the biggest lesson taught downstairs at Admiral's Feed Sales is that, contrary to generally heard complaints by somber-faced food sales managers in other halls, students can operate such an enterprise ata tremendous profit to the hall while making the sales a galvanizing hall-unitizing experience that everyone invoved can enjoy, customer and proprietor alike. 
''Guys that say you can't make money at it," said Jim,"--that's absolute bullshit. We've cut all prices almost to cost and we've still really increased our sales. It's all a matter of making students want to come buy something--and you do that by letting them enjoy it. 
"The guys se~:~se we're having a lot of fun at it too," he went on. "Two freshmen have come to me asking if they could work with us-­for free. The way I look at it, running food sales is a privelege." And he says it like he means it. 
"This is what I believe," finished the Admiral, readying for the night's crowd. "If we're going to be here for four year, we migh as Wl'il make this a good place to live." 


It is no wonder that Father Andy grows larger and larger. Now the calls Jim Pettengill"St. Francis," question is: Why not the other and that the Holy Cross food sales halls? 
"ONCE A KING IS FOREVER BUT ONCE A KNIGHT IN NASSAU IS ENOUGH" 
K. M., Nassau Trip 1972 
Come Down With Us To Sunny Nassau. 
Sign up in La Fortune 3rd floor 
Craig Kapson or Lois Tranter JORDAN MOTORS 259-1981 
21 andover 


Reduction of growth is aim of government 
by Lee M. Cohn Schultz in September. The plan, 
(C) 1973 Washington Star N!l_ws now under negotiation, would 
Washington, !Jan.; 31--Nixon establish rules compelling coun­Administration policies aim to tries with chronic deficits or reduce the economy's rapid rate of surpluses in their international 
growth by one-third with the accounts to change their currency slowdown starting gradually after values or take other corrective 
mid-1973--to guard against a measures. Although the message resurgence of inflation. While and report were sent to Congress projecting a slower pace in the formally today, the White House 
future. the Council of Economic advanced the release last night. Advisers in its annual report to As reported in the budget 
Congress predicted yesterday that Monday, the Council predicted that the economy will expand faster the Gross National Product--total this year than last, and faster than output of goods and services--will 
mos't forecasters outside the increase by $115 billion or 10 per government expect. cent, to $1.267 trillion this year. Food prices will continue to rise Discounted for price rises, the 
rapidly for a while but will Council said. "real" G.N.P.--the moderate later this year, pulling actual volume of output-will grow down the over-all rate of inflation, by 6.75 per cent, compared with 6.5 
the Council predicted. The per cent in 1972. Most forecasters unemployment rate will decline outside the government predict from last monght's 5.1 per cent to frowth slightly above 6 per cent. the "neighborhood" of 4.5 percent The over-all inflation rate in of the civilian labor force by the G.N.P. terms will average 3 per end of 1973, the Council forecasted. cent this year, the same as in 1972, It hedged on whether the rate can the Council predicted. The con­
or should be lowered further in sensus of private forecasts is 3.5 to 1974. 4 per cent. G. N. P. increased 
In a message accompnaying the faster last year than the Council Council's report, President Nixon predicted last January, and the G. predicted that "1973 will be N. P. inflation rate was lower than 
another very good year for the forecast. economy <and l I believe it can be a "The economy will maintain a great year.. .if we can manage our very high rate of real growth over 
fiscal affairs prudently."Nixon the first half of 1973," the Council and the Council again hammered predicted today. "After mid-year, away at the theme that federal the economy will be significantly spending must be held down to his doser to the zone of full potential budgeted estimates to prevent output. and it is both probable and inflation. desirable that the rate of ex­
Although the President has said pansion will and should abate he opposes tax increases for the toward its sustainable long-run foreseeable future. the Council path." acknowledged that circumstances Beyond 1973, The Council said, 
could arise requiring temporary that sustainable path would call for tax boosts to stabilize the real G. N. P. to grow at about the C"conomy. The report also included same rate as the economy's a special chapter analyzing the potential growth rate. Council employment situation of women, Chairman Herbert Stein estimated including their higher unem­at a news conference that the ployment rates and lower earnings potential growth rate is about 4.25 
compared to men. Nixon insisted per cent a year. in his message on international Therefore. the implication 
was monetary and trade reforms "that that the rate of increase in real G. will permit us to earn our way." N. P .. the best broad measure of 
The Council published for the t>conomic growth, should be first time the details of the U. S. reduced by about one-third below monetary plan, which was outlinP.d last year's rate and the predicted 
rate for 1973.
by Treasury Secretary George P. 
Nixon holds press confab: oppposes total amnesty 
by Garnett D. Horner any price." 
(C) 1973 Washington Star-News $ Washington, Jan. 31-President Nixon today ruled:out amnesty for e want "the wounds healed," but young men who fled the country to indicated doubts about some of his avoid the draft during the Vietnam critics' desire. He added that "We War. and said they must pay a have done the very best we can criminal penalty if they want to against very great obstacles and return. we finally have acvhieved a peace 
The PPENALTY IS "not a with honor." junket in the Peace Corps," he said Taking a crack at some repor­during an announced news con­ters. Nixon siad: "I know it gags ference in the White House press some of you to write that phrase." briefing room. But he said most Americans 
Some young men paid a high realize "It is true." He siad it price to serve the U.S. in a country would have been "peace with far away, the President said, in­dishonor" if the U.S. had "bogged sisting that draft dodgers or down" on Vietnam and allowed the deserters also must pay a price. North Vietnamese to impose a He told a questioner that he does Communist or coalition govern­not intend to try to meet American ment on the South Vietnamese. prisoners of war when they return Turning to the question of am­to this country because he does not nesty, Nixon siad he had sympathy want to "grandstand" or "ex­for those who have made mistakes­ploit"their return. -"We alldo." But he added that it 
But, he said, if any former is a rule of life that "we have to pay prisoners desire to come to the for our mistakes." White House, they will be "high on He said his views about amnesty the list." remain exactly the same--he is 
In leading into expression of a against it. Those who served in continuing firm opposition to America's armed forces in Viet­amnesty, Nixon showed con­nam. he said, realize they had very siderable lingering bitterness little support among the so-called against ciritics of his Vietnam "better people," in the media and policies. among some members of 
He was asked if he intends to do Congress. anything to try to "heal wounds," But fortunately, he said, they did particularly granting amensty to have support among the majority those fled the country in order to of the American people despite day evade the draft or serving in the after day hammering that it was war. an immoral war and "It wouldn't 
"It takes two to heal wounds," be moral to serve your country." the President said. He said the Asserting that amnesty to him poeple getting "The last pleasure means forgiveness, he made it out of the peace agreement" seems clear he cannot forgive those who to be "those who were the most refused to serve. outspoken advocates of peace at 

FOR NOTRE DAME 










Spring
•
1n 

Spain 
e ROUND TRIP JET e ONE NIGHT IN PARIS 
e GROUND TRANSFERS e UNLIMITED ACTIVITY
with Paris 

e SIX NIGHTS IN MALAGA •NIGHT LIFE 
e LODGING e SIDE TRIPS (optional) 

as a Bonus 

e FREE PARKING •GUIDES 
First Day .................Depart from Chicago via a regularly scheculed Air France flight. Complimentary meals and beverages served on board. 
Second. Seventh Day .. ~.Arrival in Paris with a connecting flight to MALAGA, SPAIN. Transfer to apartments in TORREMOLINOS-FUENGI ROLA via deluxe buses. Welcoming Sangria Party! Take a quaint Andulusian fishing village, nestled between the deep blue sea and the snow-capped Sl ER RA MOUNT A INS, add a touch of Moor"1sh flavor, let simmer for five centuries un· der the warm Mediterranean sun. Then blend with "fun and sun" seekers from all the rest of Europe, and you have TORREMOLINOS, a Spanish Specialty! 
Lodging .................. New apartments along the Meditterranean ... Private baths, kitchens and individual beds. Advantages of an apartment-plus the conveniences fo a hotel. Average, 4 per apartment. 
Free Car ................. Each group of four (4) persons participating will be provided with a rental car. (Gas and mileage not included). 
Activities ................ Sailing, fishing, swimming, tennis or jai-alai. Five great golf courses on the sea! Discover old castles, churches and villages. Ride a horse or rent a taxi burro or a Vespa. Take a walk ialong a beautiful beach or people watch from a terrace cafe. Don't miss an evening of "Canto Hondo" with Gypsy Flamenco performers· unforgettable! Many restaurants: budget to elegant. F~od is varied and inexpensive ... fresh seafood is a specialty here! 
Optional Sidetrips .......To GRANADA, the ancient, mountain-top town of RONDA and exotic TANGIERS. 
Eighth Day ...............Depart Malaga for your flight to PARIS. Orientation Tour of this exciting city on arrival. Overnight in a good category hotel, all twin-bedded rooms with bath 
Ninth Day ............... Departure for home via Air France. Complimentary meals and beverages served on board. 
Guides .................. Multilingual guides to assist you during your stay in SPAIN and while in PAR IS. 
DEPART: CHICAGO-SATURDAY, MARCH 10 4:00PM RETURN: CHICAGO-SUNDAY, MARCH 18,3:00 PM 

9Days 
For additional information please contact: 
MR. CHRIS NYE-(219) 291-1741 


Only $272 
Plus Tax and Service $30.00 
$50.00 Deposit, Balance due by 30 days prior to departure I For application see reverse side. 
APPLICATION FOR detach and mail SPRING IN SPAIN 
EhCJtbihty for th1s triP 11 limited to students, f.culty, staff and the•r families• of the above named orpnization. Plent refer to Notahon under Tour Condttiom 
PLEASE PRINT 

State  > ~  g CD 0 CD..  
Homt! Phone  ~  "(j :§  
I I  I Mill• ! I Stude-nt 1  I Fem•l• , Staff  I  I Mo"'l'd  I  ,  S•nglo  ROOMING PREFERENCE: I w_,tto Room With 14 per -.ot.l Ill. ____________  t: s: fl :c  
121 ___________  ~  (.)  
~  
OPTIONS: TWIN ROOM: $35.00 tu!Jplf'mf'nt pPr ~rson, ,,,.,.,~. 0Ch«kherefortw.naccommodat•ons and  (31·~---·------­ <( c  
CM fOt two. InformatiOn on un, tnwrancto and opt•oNI s!C:W1nps wnt at a later date TOUR PRICE Is $272.00 plus $30.00 ta)(, Minimum Deposit 11 $50.00. In case of deposit th• bllance will be due prior to 30 {thirty) d<Jys before dep<Jrture,  0 1­ &~ :s... :i ui  
Encloled ''My Chtdc tor$ M1ke dwcks PIYibleto· Gre.at hkH Tr~n~tt Co., Inc. I hereby 1ttnt t~t I quat•fy for the lbove ment~ned lfftnttv poup.  ..J < ~ :IE ~  N "" N  
fIt undtr 21. ••on1tur1 of parent or 9UII"dtan •  



Ciardian Knat Security at
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Dan Thornton Editor-in-Chief Business Manager John Abowd 
the Dome
NEWS: 283-1715 EDITORIALS: 283-8661 

BUSINESS: 283-7471 Joe Butler 
Ed Elli• Executive Editor Advertising Manager 
Don Ruane 
Thursday, February 1, 1973 


LaFortune Renovation 
-The publications offices should beThe LaFortune Renovation Committee moved out of LaFortune to a seperatehas an uphill fight facing them in the next facility. The prime candidate is thefew weeks. 'They are to produce a report Psychology Building which is soon to bethat will be presented to the Trustees that vacant.

not only outlines physical changes that --The Student Insurance and Morrissey should be made in the student center, but Loan Fund offices should be moved
establishes a philosophy which the perhaps into the Administration
renovations support. 
Building.

The problems of the center are myriad, -The Student Union offices should
but the greatest problem is 
remain in the building. In the process, aunquestionably the archaic structure fifth Student Union Commission shouldwith which we have to work. Assuming be organized to handle the managementthe limited space and facilities of of the student center.

LaFortune, it has to be realized that --Seating and dining facilities for the
renovations notwithstanding, Notre 
Huddle should be enlarged into what isDame's center will not be on a par with now the Tom Dooley Room. The Dooleythe centers of most universities. But we Room could be moved to an area outsidehave to work with what we've got. 

the student center where it would be 

Some basic changes in LaFortune must more properly enshrined. be negotiated during the renovation The problems of the student center are period to make it usuable. ones that won't be solved by the men­--Most of the student offices should be tioning of a few suggestions which merely 
moved from LaFortune to other sera tch the surface. But these 
locations. Space is a problem not only in suggestions are moves which appearLaFortune, but all across campus. Yet, it necessary if the student center is ever is intrinsic to the development of a new going to be a viable campus facility.student center that LaFortune no longer serves as a student office building. Jerry Lutkus 
lllllllfilllllhHIIIIIAIRiilhhiiillnlmlnmnnnnmlniiiiiiiRifUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIUIIIUUIIIIIIIIUUIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIUIIIUillllililiilillllil 
... on o-c women


Letter••• 
Editor: blind concerning the place of his or her time here. 
women on this campus. For me as The Notre Dame administration 

I notice in The Observer today a senior. the many welcoming impresses me as unbelievably that Father Riehle had upheld the speeches at the beginning of this blind concerning the place of ruling forbidding women to live vear were awkward and ironic­women on this campus. off-campus next year. While I ~ince I had considered myself a Forcing the few women who are cannot believe that such a part of this University in all my here to live on campus is a aiscriminatory policy will be four years of classes here. The sickening form of tokenism. For ;lllowed to continue. I am obliged "welcome" was not so welcome four years I have been on of the few from my own anger at this in­when one considers that many girls· in my classes, but hopefully justice to express my feelings on female students gave up as well as this is not as significant as the fact this issue. gained something when they chose that I myself was there. Notre 
No minority at this University to come here. Dame cannot believe itself to be 
has been treated the way that Since Notre Dame offers no education students when some 
women have been-especially financial aid to first year transfer students are required to become 
within this past year. Black students. a regualtion requiring all symbols and are not allowed to 
studet:~ts. foreign students, athletes women to live on campus becomes d'evelop themselves. The very 
and scholarship students have strongly financially slow process of coeducation on this 
never been so openly "welcomed" discriminatory. As one who lost a campus is so numbers-conscious 
as a significant new presence on scholarship when I came here and and quota-conscious that one 
campus which would make this a is working now to pay my way questions how conscious it is of the 
better place to be. If Father Riehle through this year, the financial people involved in this place. 
had forbidden any of these facts of attending school are very Although only a small number of 
minorities to live off-campus (with real to me and to others. women desire to live off-campus, 
1 he exception of scholarship I also think that you could ask this is no justification to prevent 
students), he would have been any upperclassmen at Notre Dame every woman from choosing 
immediately accused of violating about the "visibility" of women on where she wishes to live. 
the Civil Rights Act. Certainly this campus and be contradicted People are what will really make 
such a ruling concerning women concerning the supposed purpose coeducation here. If some people 
also violates the spirit, if not also of the ruling. This year there are are not given the privileges and 
the letter. of United States Federal less women around campus during responsibilities which others are, 
Law. In fact, when I spoke with the day than there have ever been then they are obviously being 
one of the Deans of Arts and during my years here-primarily treated as second-class persons. A 
LPtters last year about coming because of the new limitation son Catholic University like Notre 
here. he admitting concerning coexchange classes with Saint Dame which stresses "com­
housing all women on campus: "Of Mary's . No one can be so narrow­munity" so much becomes very 
course. it's discriminatory." minded, however, as to think that hypocritical and very unchristian. 
The Notre Dame administration to be a part of Notre Dame, a 
impresses me as unbelievably student must necessarily spend all .Jan Reimer 240 Badin 
It is not often that students at Notre Dame find their own personal physical safety a primary concern of their daily lives. Let's face it, Notre Dame, Indiana is not downtown Manhattan, or the Loop in Chicago, or North Philadelphia, or anyplace we expect to find armed robbery, burglary, or rape high on the list of "exciting-things-that­happened-to-me-today.'' 
We are witnessing, however, a crime wave that, while it is not likely to rattle Interpol teletypes or produce two or three of the FBI's Ten Most Wanted, will nonetheless make life at the Dome considerable less carefree if it is allowed to continue. 
The campus media has recorded for us this semester one rape at Saint Mary's, two burglaries of assorted sizes and with varying degrees of success, a Dragnet-style armed robbery, and an overabundance or armed or partially armed robberies in student offices of LaFortune Student Center. 
Observer Office Hft 
The Observer office has even been hit twice, and while the folks up there realize they are not the coolest people in the world, the traditional method of telling them this has always been to write a perfectly hideous, obnixious letter-to-the-editor, not to batter down the door. Extremely anti-social, to say the least, and a psychologist would probably even hint that such behavoir indicates bad upbringing. 
In any case, serious consideration of all this will probably lead to suggestions that Arthur Pears is an incompetent, boobish moron, and perhaps that his entire staff is composed of prehensile dimwits, or worse, if that's possible. We may even expect a rash of high sarcasm in columns and letters to the Observer editor. 
Now I have never been one to oppose high sarcasm-or even low sarcasm, for that matter. But I think if that is the only thing to result from the current epidemic of lawlessness, then we are hardly behaving as college students, but rather as somewhat inferior can­didates for Student Body President. 
Is Something Amiss? 
It is clear that something is amiss in our Security Department. Those card-lock panaceas in Alumni don't work. The policy of barricading the student center after midnight doesn't work. The lighting along Saint Mary's road doesn't work. And meanwhile the kampus kops are spending money on machines that will make sure our cars don't stay on campus for more than the magic fifteen minutes. 
My spies furthermore, have informed me that a special task force has been initiated under Jerry McGlynn to prevent the ducks from jaywalking across that mock interstate that runs from Lyons Hall to the.back of Carroll Hall. "Their quacking is bothersom'e to the ROTC people," they say. "They mistake the ducks for students." 
Something Must be bone 
In all seriousness the administrator ultimately responsible for campus security should personally examine the situation to find out what is needed in our security department. Perhaps that person is the Dean of Students, or the Vice-President for Student Affairs, or maybe the Provost. Perhaps the problem is money, or brains, or maybe student attitudes <which, by the way, are not ameliorated by Security's prominence in L'Affaire de Lewis Halll. Whatever the ultimate problem may be, the man with ultimate responsibility ought to find the ultimate solution, before we arrive at the ultimate disaster. 
Now none of this is meant to suggest that Mr. Pears ought to be fired. That would be tantamount to suggesting that every football coach with a losing record should be fired. Pears has a reputation as a competent policeman, and we must suspect that the problem lies elsewhere, although we must at the same time hope he has a winning season sometime soon. 
I also do not mean to suggest the creation of another one of those administration committees. There are committees at Notre Dame to study everything from vice-presidents to the color of the toilet paper provided in our halls, and none of them ever works. 
I do however, mean to suggest that someone who knows something about police work and the detection and prevention of crime_ ought to take action to preserve the safety of the people and the ducks at Notre Dame. 
the observer 


Managing Editor: Joe A~L
daanesbury 
News Editor: AnthOny Abowd St. Mary's Editor: Maria Gallagher 





a jeremiad 
rev•rend rabert qriffin 
Recently, it was suggested to me by a 
mind and heart were bread and wine over students; because, you see, Wayne Esse!, melodies borrowed from Schubert's Ave group of Notre Dame people that I write a which Christ was speaking the words of an the Sunday singer at the Urchins' Mass was Ma~ia. His voice was not good, and it wascolumn to students, criticizing them for eternal Covenant. there and Jerri, his girl; and Peter McCabe, obvwus he would never make it as atheir behaviour in being sometimes Instead. there was only another Mass to who read them the story of The Giving Tree, member ~f the cast of Godspell, but thedishonest, cruel to one another, destructive be said, and I was its celebrant, and the and Peter's brother, who attends Villanova; effect of h1s prayer was more moving to meof property, or neglectful of the common place was 42nd street in New York City. and Dave Kaminski, Kerry McNamara, and lhan vespers sung by a cathedral choir. Indecencies. I declined, with thanks, the There were four hundred and fifty children Pat Boyle; and! later, at another such Mass, the moments of his singing, several worlds opportunity. At the mome~t I a_m not_ at the present from the parish school. My job was Ralph Bravaco, who played puppeteer for louched together: the world of urchins atproper pitch of anger to dehver Jeremiads. I to say to them, "Yes, Jesus loves you." the skeleton who did the dance of the Dry worship, and the world of Notre Dame am too full of love and gratitude to Notre These were school children who lived in Bones. In a parish where students of college students bringing their own personal beauty Dame students to chastise the careless ones. 
wretched apartments on the side streets off age never appear, all of these Notre Dame into the world of inner city children, and the There are times, like almost always, when Ninth Avenue, where the transvestites walk people suddenly showed up to say to the world of people from the Lonely Kingdom
Notre Dame students make a big difference every evening. Some of the children come children. "Jesus loves you very much." I who end by touching our joy with their in my life. 
to school hungry; they go home to face a am not sure how convinced the children sadness just out of a simple need for a placenight without supper. A number of them were about Jesus, but they knew those Notre where they can belong.
There came a time, for instance, while 
will never grow up to finish high school. Dame students loved them, and that When the Mass was over, il is needless toworking in a parish after Christmas, when I They know about death, about drugs, about knowledge made them very happy children. say that I felt as though I had eJC'}eriencedgrew very weary of the inflated rhetoric of sex. about violence, but the ugliness has not When the Mass was over, one little third­th~ life and breath of God. •liturgy, the formal phrases of our con­vet touched them in their essential in­grader said to their teacher, "Oh, why does it It is to be hoped that Notre Dameversation with God. It was a mood when I iwcence. For they as for the rest of us, have to end?" History has not recorded the students-whose representativesneeded to be altogether without words, surely it is true: that Jesus loves them very teacher's answer. sometimes bring beauty into the life ofwithout utterance. God knows the religious 
much. children-do not turn an ugly face upon this
shops are filled today with prayerbooks At the Offertory of the Mass, there was an campus when they are alone with onewritten in the language of plain speech, the And so it was on the First Friday of interruption of the service by a man who another. This is as much of a jeremiad as I
gutsy kind of idiom <reminding me of January that a priest in need of a vacation had the appearance of one who has lived for care to give at this moment.
Malcolm Boydl that begins, "She is a said Mass for a grade school of children in a very long time, perhaps all of his life, at a But for those of you wishing to touch thehooker, Lord. and I a.m horny. Teach us how need of most everything else essential to place like the Logan Center. He asked me if lives of children with love--lean offer youto pray." The Roman canons exhausted me, childhood. like both a father and a mother to he might sing a prayer for the children. He the phone number of the Head Startbut I was in no mood for Sister Corita, take care of them and a yard in which to was strange enough in appearance that I program; they called Sunday asking foreither. I needed the breath and touch of safely play. At that Mass, I was able to give was afraid he might frighten the children, help from Notre Dame students willing toGod. I needed to be handled like the those children the most precious gift I could but I could find no kindly way to refuse him. 
play a father role with four year old
elements of a Eucharist, as though flesh and find for them: the friendship of Notre.Dame So he sang the Hail, Mary in English, using children. 
the claremont colleges: a study in clusters 
(C) 1973 New York Times News Service nsmg costs and static enrollments; but instead of cutting back, as many colleges 
Claremont. Calif.--The little group _of are, it is looking for ways to expand to meet colleges at the foot of the Sa~ Ga?nel changing tastes and values in education. Mountains is thriving on a medieval Idea The clustering arrangement was that draws dozens of college administrators pioneered by Claremont after World War I, here each year to see what it is all about. when the group of population in southern 
They are the C\ar~m~nt Colleges a_nd California put pressure on the system's Graduate School, s1x md~p~n?en_t m­original member--Pomona College--to stututions clustered together m Imitation of expand. But instead of growing larger, the syste~. started by Oxford in the _1~th Pomona decided to add a new and separate C<'ntury, of autonomous colle~es umfled college on an adjoining campus. Now there under a university. For a growmg number are five of them. plus the graduate school, of other American colleges, the cluster set on 260 acres of contiguous campuses, arrangement seems to offer the a?v~ntages each with its own president, faculty, board of size. diversity, smallness and mbm~cy-­of trustees. and distinctive academic and all at the same time. But some disad­social character. vantages have become evident too. They nonetheless share expensive 
Like most other private colleges, the facilities that none of them could afford Claremont group is being squeezed between separately--a750,000-volume library, a 
computer center. ethnic studies center and cessful in ra1smg money through other student health services. . private and foundation sources. They also share students. The 5,000 un­Pomona college, the founding institution. dergraduate and graduate students are is coeducational and offers the broadest
the exorcist 
largely free to shop around at any of the number of traditional liberal arts courses. campuses for courses they cannot find at The Claremont Graduate School was ad­their own college. dedd in 1925. 
Hampshire College in Amherst, Mass., is Scripps College, founded in 1926 on an an example of the trend. It was established ornate Spanish style campus that only pre­in 1965 by Amherst, Mount Holyoke, the . depression money could have bought, is forBelow is a copy of a poem delivered by Minor assassination our specialty these 
University of Massachusetts and Smith women only. Its curriculum stresses artFather William Toohey, C.S.C., director of days College, and its students may attend classes and the humanities.
Campus Ministry, at Sunday's Peace Ob-S<'nseless. petty spites; cruel, cutting word 
at the parent school. Claremont men's College, built in 1946,
s<'rvance. The "we're not speaking" bit 

"Some people seek out the small colleges emphasizes studies in management and today for the same reason other kids go into public affairs. communes," a Claremont professor said. Harvey Mudd College was founded in 1955 
,Jesus. Exorcist, exorcise 
''They're looking for alternatives to mass as a technical and engineering school. And 
Exorcise us. o'er-powered by evil force­Made for Jove. unlove shackles society." Pitzer. the free-wheel_ing youngest college
reign of sin Ties that could be binding The students are bright--most have scored that was built in 1963, has a curriculum Hain vour mercy down For covenant among top ten per cent nationally on their stressing the behavioral and social sciences. 
college entrance tests. But even· ·at Of the combined colleges 3,800 un­.Jesus. Exorcist. exorcise We hesitate. procrastinate; Claremont. applications have been leveling dergraduates, the "Pitzies" seem to be the Free us. who have pain for home Stall at doorways of need off--and in some cases declining--over the happiest and most unkept.Torn by contradictions stretching Confusing cut with caress, soothing with last two years, as students turn to the more "I wanted a loose school," said Robin imagination seething inexpensive state colleges. The Claremont Bugler. a 19-year-old sophomore at Pitzer. 
;tdministrators are. watching this trend, "I visited some schools in the East. and the 
We know gratitude and relief at cease-fire Twists entwine us; which is also true' at most other small pretentiousness of it all really bombed ?ut news Eves for reaching, holding, sharing private colleges, with deep concern. on me. I figured I could get my learmngAnd stagger with pain at the new invasion Come on daggers, come off icebergs During the last decade, more than 600 done where all that didn't have to happen to Unborn the target now-burdens, never institutions have joined into about 70 me. So I'm pleased. At Pitzer, there's a 
bundles-to-be Enough is enough? roughly similar clusters, or "consortiums," aentle anarchy that is really good." 
Any is too much by pooling their resources and students. As "' But there is also some disatisfaction. Old judges decide for little ones­Enough of this possession! competition for students with inexpensive !:'fpecially among some of the older Inside womb. outside Jaw public colleges and universities increases, students. over Claremont's isolation and Bet they never wondered, "What if our Jesus. Exorcist. exorcise these steps have been taken as a way of rarified upper-middle class environment. A mothers had?" Treat our demons to your Kingdom cutting over-all costs and providing more strenuous and expensive effort to enroll We must be schizophrenic: This we want you to want with us diversity. Yet the men who run the Black and Chicano students has given the Wdcome home POW, tough luck little baby! Claremont group argue that their system is colleges one of the country's highest ratios 
.l<'sus of Nazareth-young carpenter not necessarily cheaper to run per student, of minority enrollments. but administrators .Jesus. Exorcist. exorcise Fashion liberation since much duplication of effort occurs, but concede their disappointment that the Now-now exercise healing touch For captive man onlv better for teaching and learning. minority students still tend to Splintered, torn-we ache for curing The Claremont system also profits--in a "resegn;gate" themselves among their own 
We too know who you are-Holy One of God literal sense--from having the colleges run kind. J<:yiJ owns the day. has its way Speak sharply your "Be quiet. come out!" independently. The system's institutions For the rest. the atmosphere is stiO With us: with us it thrives B(' Exorcist. Exorcist. .. have a total of 258 members. honorary overwhelmingly white and upper-middle Little things. of course <we blow the big And free us members. and honorary life members of L'lass--few other families can afford the 
produet ion) For love. their various boards of trustees. who came more than $4,000 a year costs, despite a up with about $24 million in donations during generous scholarship program. For these, the colleges' recent fund drive. The the campuses sometimes seem isolated, as Claremont group has been similarly sue-one student put it, from the "real world." 





~~ 
~ 
• ~ 
I• I 
•~ 
I l 
! I ~ 

Student Union Social Commission Does It Again 



undersea. 
·. ,,,,, worlOl i 
t 

Mardi Gras '73 
' 

KICK OFF PARTY, Friday, Feb. 2. 
$5°0 per couple South Bend Armory 8:30-12:3.0 
There will be busses from the circle throughout the evening 

CARNIVAL 
Friday, Feb. 2 6:30-10:00 (Kick-Off Party 8:30·12:30) Saturday, 3 7:00-1:00 Sunday, 4 1:00-5:00 Tuesday 6 7:00-12:00 Wednesday, 7 7:00-12:00 Thursday, 8 7:00-12:00 Saturday, 10 7:00-1:00 Sunday, 11 1:00-5:00 (Drawing, 4pm) 

RAFFLE 
PRIZES:. 

1973 'Buick Riviera' J0 Speed Bicyle Suzuki 500 Motorcycle (student prize) 
Students--sell J book get free admission to carnival; sell5 books get free admission to Kick Oil Party 
Drawing lor prizes Is 4pm, Sunday Feb. J J. 


CONCERT 
Santana Friday, Feb. 9, 1973, 8:30 pm 
-~ , 0 0 0 , '• •, ~. •, •, r r • 1 ~ 11. : I' r o t o 1 
wicker 
by Tom Wicker 

(C) 1973 New York Times 
New York, Jan. 31--In October, 1970, prisoner uprisings occured throughout New York City's jail system, with as many as 
1.400 inmates seizing scores of cellblocks and at least 23 hostages. But no one was seriously injured in the four days of in­surrection. and most investigators have concluded that the prisoners were largely justified in their protests against trial delays. high bail, overcrowding, unsanitary conditions. dehumanizing treatment and occasional brutality. 
In Brooklyn and Queens, the inmates indicted for their part in the riots were allowed to plead guilty to minor charges, and none served additional time. But in Manhattan. seven inmates were indicted for felonies. each on 72 counts that included kidnapping, unlawful imprisonment and reckless endangerment of lives. Many of the charges carried life sentences for those found guilty. 
Three of the inmates so indicted in Manhattan have been acquitted of all charges. after a joint trial that lasted three months. Two others were allowed by the office Manhattan District Attorney Frank Hogan to plead guilty, but were not sen­tenced to additional time in prison. A corrections officer who was separately indicted on chages of aiding the inmates during the 1970 uprising also was acquitted of 27 counts of kidnapping, unlawful im­prisonment. and other felonies. 
All of this might suggest to impartial observers that Hogan's office does not have much evidence to sustain the 72-count in­dictments against the last two alleged leaders of the revolt in The Tombs. Nevertheless, this week Hogan's office began the trail of a sixth Tombs defendant, Herbert X. King. Indeed, when the first three indicted inmates were acquitted last summer. Hogan term end it a "hideous miscarriage of justice" and scored the jury for making what he called a "political statement." 
It is conceivable, of course, that a jury might find Blyden of King uilty of the charges on which the other defendants have already been acquitted. Nevertheless, the dogged pursuit of these prosecutions, despite the generally conceded justification ror the 1970 uprising, despite the fact that no killings or major injuries resulted, and despite the weak cases presented in the earlier trails. raises many troublesome questions. 
Thursday, February 1, 1973 the observer 
9 


A most peculiar justice 

Why. for example, is trial being insisted on for Blyden <and presumably for Kingl when more than 90 per cent of all felony cases in New York courts are settled by some for of "plea bargaining," in which prisoners plead guilty to lesser offenses in return for a lighter sentence? Why is trial being insisted on, in particular, when trials were not pursued by other district attorneys in Brooklyn and Queens, and when two of the Manhattan degendants also were allowed to plead guilty and are not serving additional time? 
What is the point of tying up courtrooms, judges and prosecutors with dubious cases when it is a blatant fact that there are not enough courtrooms, judges and prosecutors to handle the cases that unquestionably ought to go to trial--many of which never­theless have to be disposed of by plea bargaining. 
Why is it that no indictments were for­thcoming. and no prosecutions are being pursued, or either the adminstrators of the eity detention system or of any ot the corrections officers (save the once charged with but acqutted of aiding theinsurrection), despite the widely conceded fact that the conditions against which the prisoners revolted in 1970 were inhumane and in­defensible? <Just for one example, President Bernard Botein of the Association of the Bar of the Cityof New York referred in a letter to Mayor John V. Lindsay in April 1972, to "the shameful and dangerous treatment of prisoners awaiting rrial in New York City ... ") 
Even if Blyden--a passionate orator who gained fame as a spokesman for othe rebellious prisoners at Attica in September, 1971--can be convicted for whatever his activities might have been in The Tombs in Ocotober. 1970, what will have been gained commensurate with the cost of his present trial. which is sure to be lengthy, the tying up of criminal justice facilities and per­sonnel, and the certainty that much of the lblack community will regard this as one more insensitive, perhaps vindictive, on­slaught of the law against downtrodden? 
All of the Tombs defendants already are behind bars for other crimes; but the cases of thousands of defendants perhaps dangerous to the community go untried for months or year or forever. The suspicion is bound to arise the Herbert Blyden is really on trial not so much for the crimes as for having challenged a criminal justice system that was rotten in 1970, and still is. 
Nixon didn't pick paint out of cracks 
(continued from page II) 
''And because Nixon didin't do that. he didn't spend three whole days picking paint out of the cracks around the moldings of the door frame with a razor blade. Nixon didin't get his hands scarred with razor nicks and splinters. Nixon didn't begin to wallow in self-pity about things never being as easy for him as they seemed to be for other people." 
"Would you turn off the good­music station, Clara? I hate that organ program sponsored by the embalming league." 
"For that reason, Nixon didn't have to decide whether he was vaced with a crisis that was ehallenging his manhood. Freed of the obligation to weigh that possiblility, Nixon didn't tell himself that the door-paint situation was more than simply a door-paint situation which had to be met with every ounce of strength and resolution he could muster." 
."Rub it in all you like, Clara, but 
l  want  no  subtle attacks  on  the  
President."  
"And therefore,  Nixon did  not  

start to remove the hideous base 
t'oat of mud-colored paint. This saved him from the time­eonsuming chore of assembling steel wogl, paint-eating chmical liquids that erode the hands, metal scrapers. step ladders, rags, trash 
baskets.  rubber  gloves,  plastic  
floor  coverings  and  old  work  
clothes."  

"Clara. I think a glop of that paint removing acid just went down my Shoe." 
"Not having assembled all these materials. of course. Nixon didn't begin attacking the mud-colored base paint, didn't learn of its stubborn resistance and, therefore. did not develop an iron determination to remove every last trace of this fantastically adheseive paint to prove that h(! was a better man than paint was." 

"Just get to the point, will you, Clara. and tell me what Nixon did do." 
"Nixon. when he came out of his bedroom one morning and noticed several chipped spots on the bedroom door simply said, 'Pat, the paint on that door needs touching up. It reminds me of one or two blemishes on my image that need a little polishing." 
"Clara. I think that acid has removed my third toe." 
--------4 
The Observer expects to 
flnow by Friday whether 
enough St. Mary's students 
have paid subscription fees to 
allow continued delivery. 
Until then. no information is 
available. 
... ________ 




CONCERTS: 
SANTANA Feb. 9, 8:00 pm ACC $4.50, $3.00 (Mardi Gras Concert) 
WINTER CONSORT Feb. 24.. 8:00pm Olaughlin Auditorium $2.50advance, $3.00 at door BEACH BOYS March 31,8:00 pm ACC $5.50, $4.50, $3.00 
KELLER &WEBB March 3, 9:00pm Washington Hall--Free 
FREE MOVIES: 
Feb. 14, 7 & 10 pm Engineering Aud.
''MY FAIR LADY'' ''PLAY MISTY .FOR ME'' March 1, 7:30 & 1 0 pm 
Engineering Aud. ''LEMANS'' April 24, 7:00 & 10 pm Washington Hall 
NORE TO COME 

4 
I l 
~ 
~ 
1 
j 1 
J 
J 
I 




Second armed robbery hits Pangborn Hall 
by David Rust Staff Reporter 

Armed robbers have agin hit Notre Dame, this time at Pangborn hall food sales last night, getting away with approximately $60-65 in small charuze. 
The three. robbers, described only as black, entered the hall at around nine o'clock and broke into a vending machine, according to campus security sergeant Eugene 
H. Nova. 

They also proceeded to the food sales room where, reports Pangborn food sales manager Norman Roos, they tried to remove the moulding around the door. However, they weren't immediately successful in opening the door. 
"From what I've heard, they must have been there trying to get in five or ten minutes," said Roos. 
Once inside they picked up around $60 in change and dollar bills and. according to Sgt. Nova, some soft drinks, after which they fled. 
Security reported last night that at least one of the robbers had a knife. and Roos said that he had been told that one of them had pulled a knife on a student who saw them get away. 
"They must have had the place cased," said Roos. "They've been. seen around here before." 
This was Notre Dame's second armed robbery within three days, the Cirst taking place at Alumni Hall last Sunday evening when robbers armed with pistols entered the hall, bound and gagged several residents and made off with $70. 
More details on this latest robbery should be released today by the security department. 

YAP forming 
Young Americans for Freedom, the nation's largest conservative youth organization, will organize a new ND-SMC chapter this Friday at 4:00. • The organizational meeting will be held in Room 2-D of the Lafortune Student Center. 
Guest speaker at the initial meeting will be Frank Donatelli, a member of the Board of Directors of Y AF. Donatelli is a 23-year old law student at Duquesne University. He is also the YAF Chairman for the state of Penn­sylvania. Donatelli will speak against the Equal Rights Amend­ment. 
YAF was founded in 196'' at the home of William F. Buckley, Jr., by a group of some one hundred young conservatives who were backing Senator Barry Goldwater for President. Since that time YAF has grown into the nation's largest conservative youth organization. Among the dignitaries on the National Ad­visory Board of YAF, in addition to over 40 congressmen, are University of Notre Dame professors Dr. Gerhart Niemeyer of the Political Science Depart­ment and Dr. Charles Rice of the Law School. Governor Otis Bowen has been an advisor to Indiana YAF since 1965. 


Summer jobs 
by John Rumbach 
Staff Reporter 

Applications filled out last Oc­tober by students seeking summer e~ployment through the Summer Job Placement program are being processed. by area alumnae groups. Jim Clarke, spokesman for the program, announced Wednesday that the 400 applicants will receive information within-the next month. 
The program, now under the direction of Jim Coony and Mike Jordon of the Alumnae Association, is designed to find summer jobs for student sthrough local alumni clubs. Coony and Jordon are now contacting these clubs to ccordinate job offerings in the different alumni areas. 
In order to insure success in the program. Clarke asks that all applicants who have found sum­mer employment outside the program contact him at 1641 so that their applications may be removed. 
The Alumni Association, at this time. does not know the success of the program since alumni groups only have been in contact with the stt!dent applicants; however, "Pveryone seems pleased with the effort so far," Clarke said. 
"The only report we have now is from the Jersey Club where President Brian Connelly says fantastic results have been gotten for the 45 applications received," Clarke added. 
Applicants in the program ranged from freshman to second­year grad students. Clarke no~ed that the benefits of this program are more far reaching than suritmer employment alone. 
"Hopefully, some companies will want to keep students after graduation," he said. 

Lecture on USSR 
Dr. V. Stanley Vardys, professor of political science and chairman of Russian Studies at the University of Oklahoma, will discuss "Liberal Dissent and Nationalism in the Soviet Union" at 8 p.m. Thursday <Feb. 1) in the auditorium of the University of Notre Dame's Memorial.Library. 
The program is sponsored by the Student Academic Commission and the Notre Dame Lithuanian Club in cooperation with the Program of Russian and East European Studies, and is open to the public without charge. 
Vardys was born in -Lithuania and studied in Germany before receiving his doctoral degree in political science at the University of Wisconsin. He later served as a fculty member at that school before being named director of the University of Oklahoma's Munich Center for Russian Language and Soviet Area Studies in Germany. 
A visitor to the Soviet Union in 
1967 and 1970, Vardys has con­
ducted research in Europe on a 
grant from the American Council 
of Learned Societies. He is the 
editor and co-author of "Lithuania 
Under the Soviets" (1965) and "Karl Marx: Scientist? Hevolutionary? Humanist?" <1971l. He has authored articles for the New York Times and the Los Angeles Times, as well as several foreign affairs journals. 

Debate tourney 
The Notre Dame Debate Council is hosting its 21st Annual National INvitational Debate Tournament to be held at the Center for Con­tinuing Education this Thursday, Friday and Saturday. Par­ticipating in the tournament will be about forty-five teams from twenty-five different universities. 
Amo~g those competing in varsity competition will be such schools as California State in Los Angeles, Southwest Missouri. State University. Northwestern, Butler, and last year's winner, th~ University of Toledo. 
The tournament schedule will l'onsist of eight preliminary rounds of pebate followed by elimination rounds beginning with octofinals. The question debated will be the resolution used in all in­tercollegiate debate tournaments: Hesolved: The Federal Govern­ment should provide a program of comprehensive medical care for all U. S. citizens. 
Debates will begin at 3:30P.M. on Thursday, 10:30 A.M. on Friday and 8:30 A.M. Saturday in the C'CE. Those interested in viewing the debates are welcome to do so. 
Any student interested in timekeeping at the tournament should contact Dave Thackston at 6167. "At the moment the ND Debate Council needs help in this regard," says Norm Lerum, Director of Debate at ND. 



MARDI GRAS •• 
''LET'S MAKE A DEAL PROGRAM'' 
"The big deal of the year is worth $9,705.. 
Door 1 Door 2 Door 3 
If you trade your time for Door number 1 If you trade your time for Door number 2 If you trade $1 & buy 1 ticket you still get a and sell at least 200 books aand more than and sell at least 50 books, the most in your chance for a: anyone else & buy one ticket or more district+ and buy one or more tickets youyourself you get a possible: get a possible: 
$7,800 Buicl< Riveria $7,800 Buick Rivera $7,800 Buick Riveria $900 Suzuki 500 motorcycle $900 Suzuki 
$7,800
$100 prize for selling the most(l chance per book) 
in your district $500 orize for sellin9 the most tickets $100 Commission $500 or more .commrssion (20 per $5 Kickoff Party Admission 
cent of sales) --­
$8,905

$5 admission into Kickoff Party 
$9,705 

The Social Commission has had calls from faculty, maids, bartenders, gamblersand other South Benders wanting to buytickets. You might try apartment com­Qiexes, shopping centers, downtown, Notre Dame events, e-tc. 
There is still1 1/2 weeksleftll 
Get Tickets now by calling Tony Nlalench at 1691, 607 Grace. 
*Districts are North Quad, South Quad, SMC & Tenery , ­



baker 
How Nixon got to be the President 
by Russell Baker 

(C) 1973 New York Times chipped spots on the bedroom discover that he didn't have door. didn't say, 'Pat, the paint on sandpaper to put on the electric 
Washington. Jan 31--"All right, this door needs touching up, and sander. going out in the car again-­you asked me how Nixon got to be I'm the man who's gomg to do the ­President while you--a splendid touching.' " 
"I can take it, Clara, but I warnspecimen of sagacious humanity-­

"I told you I'm sorry I mentioned you-·-."
have to labor here in this ill-lighted it. Clara."
hallway chipping paint from the woodwork, and I'm going to tell "And after not killing a whole you how Nixon got to be President "No. Nixon didin't say that. day with a sander, Nixon didn't while you ... " What's more he didn't get in his start sanding the chipped spots. 
car and spend a full day going to And because he didn't, he didn't 
"Forget it, Clara. Forget I said the hardware store to buy an discover to his horror that great anything. I'm sorry I mentioned electic sander to smooth off the slabs of paint slid right off the door it." chipped edges, bringing the sander wherever the sander touched it. 
home. discovering that the cord No, Nixondidn'tdoanyofthat, and 
"It was because Nixon, when he was to short to reach the outlet, as a result, Nixon was not came out of his bedroom one going out in the car again to buy an depressed at the end of the second morning and noticed several extension cord, coming home to day by finding himself with a 
Stennis admired by colleagues 
by Shirley Elder and in his familiar SlOW drawl military proposals. He has long 
(C) 1973 Washington Star News became the first Democrat to ask been highly critical, for example, 
for censure of the late Sen. Joseph of Pentagon plans to strengthen Washington, Jan. 31--Sen. John H. McCarthy. If the Senate ap­conventional air defenses in the 
C. Stennis. D-Miss., seriously proved McCarthy's conduct in age of missiles. wounded last night by bandits, has hunting Communists, Stennis said, He has also been increasingly gained an impeccable reputation "something big and fine will have critical of the rising cost of in the Senate as a man who can be gone from this chamber." weapons sytems and has warned trusted. Stennis.71 was elected to the that the naion is in danger of 
He is a conservative Southerner Senate in 1947 to succeed fheodore pricing itself out of an adequate whoopposedschool integration but Bilbo. a flambuoyant white­defense. won the respect of civil rights supremacist. A small-town judge Friends described Stennis as a leaders. at the time. Stennis was described man of, dignity and reserve 
He is a firm anti-Communist and as "square-jawed" and rather generally shunning Wahsington one of the military's strongest dull. His campaign slogan was: "I social life. He works long and supporters wno was called on to want to plow a straight furrow hard at his job. investigate charges, apparently right down to the end of my row." "The Senate," said a former flimsy. that the Army one tried to He defeated five Democrats for aide, "is his life. He lives a very muzzle officers who spoke against the nomination that year by spartan existence--never smokes, Communism. ignoring the race issue. He was barely drinks. He is in almost 
Although he opposed American quoted as saying: "I asked my perfect health, he has no vices involvement in Vietnam at the father what I should say about the except that he works too hard." start. once U.S. troops were in­race problem. He said 'nothing'-­The words used to describe volved he became an ardent ad­and that is what I am doing." Stennis fall into a pattern: "fair," vocate of all-out military pressure Like many freshmen Senators, "honest." "a very decent guy," to win the conflict and he stead­Stennis was assigned to the "not a mean bone in his body." fastly helped beat back legislation District of Columbia Committee Stennis was born on a farm in in the Senate to force an end to the when he got to Washington. But a Kemper County, Miss., on Aug. 3, war. few years later he :'witched to the 1901, the youngest of seven 
He is a man with deep respect for more prestigious Armed Services children. He was a Phi Beta the American Government, par­Committee and, patiently waiting Kappa at Mississippi State and got ticularly the Senate, who was his turn, became chairman in 1969. his law degree from the University tapped for the job no one wanted He also stands no. 3 on the Ap­of Virginia. three years ago--the inquiry into propriations Committee. From Law School, Stennis whether a fellow Senator, the -late He is clearly a power in the plunged into Mississippi politics. Thomas Dodd of Connecticut, Senate. exercising enormous in­He served as a member of the state should be censured. More im­fluence among his colleagues and legislature from 1928 to 1932 and as portant than the censure of Dodd, considerable power over the local prosecuting attorney from the inquiry produced the essence of military. 1931 to 1935. a new code of ethics for Senator's Despite his reputation as a He was appointed a circuit Judge financial holdings and outside strong supporter of the defense in 1937 and served in that post until interests. department. Stennis can be one of his election to the Senate. Stennis 
And earlier, on Nov. 13, 1954, the sharpest critics of the Pen­married the former Coy Hines in Stennis stood on the Senate floor tagon when he disagrees with 1929 and they have two children. 
Few people collect two-cent dividend 
by Mike Kulczycki 
Student Associtation assnounced Marget also revealed a pool
Staff Reporter 

the cash dividend for all ND taken up in the Student Association Student response in claiming a students Jan. 26, after the budget Office ·to guess the number of two-cent cash dividend at the was projected to break even or in students who would claim their Student Association Office has the black. Student Treasurer Mike dividend. Confidentially revealing been poor. Mrs. Pat Euell, Student Marget disclosed that "I think we his estimate as 657, he "en­Association Secretary and Trustee will be having at least a $120 eouraged everyone to come up and of the Dividend Fund, said surplus in the budget of this year._" daim their dividend, because they vesterdav that only 27 students are entitled to it and because I have picked up their dividedn. would like to win the money that's 
Due to the poor response, the Any surplus at the end of this in the pot." deadline has been extended until school year "will become part of next Wednesday, Feb. 7. next year's budget and added to Dividends may be obtained at the the $80,0QO already collected Despite a claim phoned in by Student Association Office in through Student Activities Fees." King Kersten that "any unclaimed LaFortune between the hours of 8 He mentioned that "the Finance dividends are going to me," to 12 and I to 5. Fifty dollars worth Committee is reassessing future Marget stressed that "all un­of pennied has been prepared for projects in view of the projected elaimed dividends will go back into the dividends. surplus." the general working fund." 
Music department sponsoring concerts 
A series of spring semester Age of Venice" on February 24 in organist. April 4, Sacred Heart eoncerts sponsored by the Music the Library Auditorium; Notre Church: Gregory Bonenberger, Department of the University of Dame Glee Club, March 5, guitarist. April 13, Library 
Notre Dame will open February 9 Washington Hall; Father Maloney, Auditorium: New Arts Ensemble, with an organ recital by Carlo tenor. and William Cerny. pianist, Aprill7. Washington Hall; Chicago Curley of Philadelphia in Sacred in "Die Schoene Muellerin" on Symphony Trio, April 27, Heart Church. Seven of the 14 !\larch 7 in the Library Washington Hall; Notre Dame eoncerts will be open to the public Auditorium. and the Michigan Symphonette and Mixed Chorus, without charge. according to Rev. Stated University mixed chorus on May 3, Washington Hall, and the Patrick Maloney. C.S.C., chair­1\larch 19 in Washington Hall. Elkhart Bach Choir in Bach's "B man. Also. the Notre Dame concert minor Mass" on May 12. 
Other scheduled concerts in­band on March 23 in O'Laughlin All events are scheduled to begin clude James Gold, guitarist, Auditorium: Elizabethan Consort at !\: 15p.m. Admission fees of $1 February 14, Library Auditoriu; of Viols March 28 in the Library will be charged for most concerts the Philidor Trio in "The Silver Auditorium: .Joseph Sluys, by visiting artists. 
severe case of blotchy bedroom 
door." 
"Mercy, Clara." 
"That was why Nixon didn't make a close inspection of the door to see why the outer coat of paint slid off so easily, exposing a hideous base coat of mud-colored paint underneath. And because Nixon didn't make that inspection, he didn't discover that some. previous tenant, years ago, had coated the mud-colored paint with a wax to which no other paint would adhere." 
NOTICES 
There will be a joint meeting of the G.S.U., SBA and members of the advanced student affairs committee on Friday 12 noon in 127 N.S.H. regarding sanctions for the Graduate Discipline Code. 
FUN CLOTHES made to order. New styles. Reasonable prices. call Kathy ...234-4547 
JUNIORS: Yearbook portrait appointments are being taken this evening during dinner n your dining hall lobby. Don't delay. sign up now! 
ND STUDENTS AND FACULTY! Car trouble? Complete c<lr care done by expert machanics at 10 percent off parts and labor! (oil changes. tune-ups, etc. l Call Rollin' Wheels Sunoco 17955 State Road 23 272-9676 (across from Greenwood's Shopping Center.). 
A BETTER CHOICE IS LIFE FOR THE UNBORN CHILD· CONTACT BIRTHRIGHT, INC. IN SOUTH BEND..0. BOX 824or call. 289-1034 
Spend your Spring Break by 
Doing something different this year The Young place to be Where all the Action is 
Parties girls goodtirnes Reduced rates for N D St Mary's Students ACAPULCO 257.50 Price includes round trip air tare (Chicago) All ocean front hotel ac. commodations For Reservations Call Del Cooper 272-3004 
Before you by a diamond le•arn all the facts. It may save you a great deal. Call : James 3118 
ON CAMPUS INTERVIEWS­THURS. FEB. 8 Camp Wayne: childrens suimmer camp N.E. Pennsylvania. 3hrs NYC & Phila. Counselors who like children with specialties in sports, water, arts & science activities. Sign-up room 207, Administration Bldg. Write 633 Barnard Ave., Woodmere N.Y. 11598 
"Wine-Steward evenings, must have a general knowledge of wine. 
Apply in person at The Down Under, Inc., 910 E.lreland Road, Sojth Bend, Ind. 
Need $20 to $150 ? Borrow from Morrissey Loan Fund. LaFortune basement. Monday thru Friday 11:15-12:15 
Sister Marita needs volunte•ers for this semester. If interested Call Bob or Mark at 1321 or 1322 
FOR INFORMATION ABOUT THE GAY AWARENESS COMMUNITY, CALL 7789, W-Th­F, 8-10 P.M. 
"Students needed immediately to act as representatives for a Chicago research comoany. Plenty of money to be made in spare time. Call (312) 922-0300" 
9 Days in Spain and Paris $279 
Plus Tax and Service Call Chris. 291-1741 
Lost: Pair of eyeglasses around Convo last Saturday. If found call 8365. 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
"I  am  extremely  tired,  my  
dear."  
"Oh,  Nixon  was  clever.  He  

didn't resolve to get a scraper and take off all the outer paint on the door with a blade so he could then get to the hideous base coat of mud-colored paint and study ways of making a fresh coat of paint adhere to it." 
"Clara, some tea, some coffee anything but---." ' 
(continued on page 9) 
PERSONAL 

Arthur Pears is alive and well and living in Charlevoix, Michigan! 
Pamela, I have a new love for you.. Brian 
9 days in Spain and Paris ! ! 1f•7,'a? PLUS TAX AND SERVICE Call Chris-291-1741 
FOR RENT 

Rooms and Kitchen. Near. $40 1110. 233-1329 
LOST AND FOUND 

Lost: glasses, round tortise shell frames. If you've found them pleasecall5166.or 8661· I'm blind! 
Lost: Accutoron Watch. Burguncy and White Ban. Reward Dan 3668 442 Morr. 
Lost: N.SD. Minature Ring on St. Mary's Campus. Of Extreme Personal Value. Reward Call 4949 or 233-4398 
Lost: Ladies gold watch with broken band Fri. January 19, and 1 gold hoop earring with design. Lost Thurs. January 18 afternoon in the vicinity of South Dining Hall. if found call 4873 
Lost: Big Black and Tan male shepard on campus . Answers to Jody Ferocious if not returned soon Call Hank 272-9753 
WANTED 

Girl desperately needs ride to Ohio via Ohio Turnpike, weekend of Feb. 2 Call 5115 Thanks 
Gals · Earn $10-$20 in spare time. For details call Mrs. Wells 272­8375 
Will pay for ride to Indianapolis. 
Please call 3219 
Need a ride to Columbus. This weekend please . Call Jan 4679 
Two need ride to Indianapolis on Feb. 2 will share expenses. Call Mi,e 1435 or Beth 4565 
Play Soccer? Looking for men w11o 11ave played soccer to join an established team which plays out 
· of Berrien Springs Michigan. Play on weekends during a fall and spring season.call Niles 616­684 0286 evenings. 
Need riders to Kent State this weekend. Call Ken 8810 
Two people need ride to Chicago this Saturday Morning. Call Larry 8276 
Wanted: Ambitious person or couple interested in earning good part-time income. For interview call Mr. Wells 272-8375 
FOR SALE 

1971 Honda CB 350, green. 3200 mi. mint. Lloyd, Chern 146. 
1969 VW BEETLE, low mileage, beautiful blue, $1195 or best offer, call 233-4024 after 5. 
lt'lerested in learning how to read a•1d swdy fa~.ter' E'velvn Wood Rading Dynamics will b€ sta:ting classes shortly. Sign up before mini lessons and save 30 percent on the course. Call 3854 
FOR SALE: Fender jazzmawster guitar. Reasonable, excellent condition. Contact McMoo at the Creepy Cruddy Rrown House 233· 8343 
m 









ND in the Palestra 
Notre Dame seeks to end a three­game losing streak tonight when they take on Villanova\ in Philadelphia's Palestra at 8:05. 
The Irish, 6-9 on the year, are coming off successive losses to Duquesne, Illinois and l!C~A: Villanova. too. failed to wm m Its most recent outing, bowing to nationally-ranked St. John's 87-77. 
Villanova has had the best of recent meetings between the two schools. defeating Notre Dame the last two years by scores of 
Villanova has had the best of recent meetings between the two schools, and defeated Notre Dame last year by a score of 78-75. 
Last season's three-point Irish setback was at the hands of a strong Wildcat club which finis~ed the campaign with an impressive 20-8 record. However. the graduationof('hris Ford and J_Ia~k Sicmiontkowski has left a vmd m coach Jack Kraft's front line. 
Junior Larry Moody, who averaged 11 ppg last year, has been the key man thus far in an uncharacteristically weak 'Cat forecourt. 
Villanova has no shortcomings at the guard spots, though. All­American candidate Tom Ingelsby and Ed Hastings, both seniors, form a capable backcourt tandem. Jngelsby, a deadly outside shooter, averaged over 18 points a game a year ago. 
Coach "Digger" Phelps hopes to 1 be able to take advantage of the · 'Cats inside and figures to rely . heavily on leading scorer John 1Shumate and Gary Novak. 
i Shumate, averaging 19.3 ppg, tops I the club in rebounding as well, hauling in 10.1 per game. 
Possessing size, strength and a . good shooting touch, Shumate will pose a major problem for Villanova. Novak complements the ''Big Shue" well underneath and the steady junior has dropped 
12.2 ppg and grabbed 10.0 rebounds per contest. 

The Irish Eye 
======================================================================================== 
There's Still Hope 
Talkin~ about the tournament hopes of a team with a 6-9 record could, in most cases. be dismissed as foolish chatter. But not when the talk is about Notre Dame. 
Although coach "Digger Phelps won't even consider looking that far ahead. it's no secret that Notre Dame's young basketball team is thinking about-sE-riously-and hoping for-with some justification-a bid to the National Invitational Tournament held each March in New York's Madison Square Garden. 
At first glance. the Irish don't seem to be a blue-chip prospect for any post-season activity. And, if they don't start winning frequently, soon, 1972-73 will go into the books ?S another rebuilding year. 
After a shaky start in which Notre Dame lost six of its first seven gamE's, four of which could just as easily have been won, the Irish ap­peared to have found the winning formula, running off five consecutive victories over Kansas, DePaul, Milrquette (endingtheWarriors' 81-game home court winning streak), Pittsburgh-in a miracle finish-and I>avton. and climbed to the .500 mark at 6-6. 
But Notre Dame fell on bad times again last week, losing close games on the road to Duquesneandlllinois and bowing to the perennial national ehampion UCLA Bruins. 
Notre Dame's early schedule bordered on the masochistic. With four sophomores in the starting five, the Irish met big ten powers Indiana, Ohio State and Illinois. They played Kentucky, Marquettte and Duquesne and took on UCLA twice. Posting an impressive record against op­position like that would be a difficult task even for a veteran club. 
The schedule may not have done much for Notre Dame's record but it worked wonders for the confidence of the Irish. Only UCLA ran away from Phelps' inexperienced quintet and the Irish proved that they could play with the best. 
f<'rom now on. the schedule gets less difficult. That's fortunate, because ,[ appears that Notre Dame would nee~ a 15-11 rec?rd. to merit. tour­nament consideration. That means the Insh have to wm mne of their last 11 games and the schedule isn't that muc~ easier.Playin~ solid, ~rr~r­frl'e basketball is a must the rest of the way If Notre Dame IS to reahze 1ts tourney dreams. 
Tonight's game with always-tough Villanova in the Palestra looms as a pivotal contest. The 'Cats are tough to beat in Philly but, if the Irish l'an knock off Jack Kraft's club and regain their winning form, Phelps 
may be able to keep them down rolling the stretch. 
Home games with Xavier, Butler, Michigan State and LaSalle follow Villanova on the schedule and a sweep of those contests would send Notre Dame off on a four-game tour of the East with an 11-9 record. On the road for two consecutive weekends, the Irish take on Fordham in Madison Square Garden. Duke, West Virginia and nationally-ranked St. John's. 
If Notre Dame can split those four outings and defeat Western l\liehigan and South Carolina in the final home games of the year, its hopl'd-for 15-11 record will be assured. And, with a little Irish luck, a tourney bid may be forthcoming. 
Notre Dame has gone to the NIT once in its basketball history, rE-ceiving an invitation after an 18-8 campaign in 1967-68. Led by Bob Arnzen and Bob Whitmore, the Irish slipped past Army, 62-58, and Long Island. 62-60. in the first two rounds of the tourney but lost to Dayton in overtiml' in the semi-finals, 76-74. They ended up third in the event after topping St. Peter's, 81-78, in the consolation game. 
lneluded in Notre Dame's 18-game win total that year were victories over the likes of St. Joseph's <Ind.), Lewis College, St. Norbert's College, Villa Madonna. King's College and scrappy, but small-time rivals, Butler and Valparaiso. 
Butler and Valpo are both on this year's Irish schedule but there aren't many other "breathers," if, indeed, Butler can even be considered an easy game When the tournament officials look at Notre Dame's 15-or­lwttcr win total. they should recall those two UCLA setbacks and the narrow losses to Indiana, Kentucky and Ohio State. 
The difficulty of Notre Dame's schedule has earned the Irish national respect. Now, if the Irish can put together an end-of-the-year winning streak, that same schedule might earn them tournament consideration. 
Sophomore Pete Crotty <6.0 ppg) and guards Gary Brokaw and Dwight Clay round out Notre Dame's starting five. Brokaw and Clay have both scored well for the Irish this year and are averaging 
18.5 and 11.4 ppg, respectively. 
After a five-game winning streak l'nabled the Irish to bounce back to the .500 level after a 1-6 start, Notre Dame dropped three games last week. Consistency was the biggest problem for Phelps' young 
quintet as the Irish suffered from sptty play in all facets of the game­-ballhandling, shooting, reboun­ding and foul shooting. 
After tonight's encounter, the Irish return home for a four-game series at the ACC. Xavier comes in Saturday afternoon and, next week. Butler, Michigan State and LaSalle provide the opposition . 
Friday night's 


faceoff is reset 
Friday night's home hockey game against North Dakota has had its faceoff time set back 15 minutes--from 7:30 to 7:45--in order to accomodate television coveraage of the game. 
Saturday night's game--the second of the eight-point series-­will begin at 7:30. 


Bartzen paces resurgent ski team 
by Tom McKenney 
When one considers the scarcity of snow on the Notre Dame campus this vear it's easy to dismiss the possi.bility of there being a Notre Dame ski team. But the fact is that a handful of students are representing the Irish on the slopes. eompeting against the best collegiate ski competition in the l\lidwest. 
Intercollegiate skiing has been absent from the Notre Dame campus since 1965-66, when the sport, which was then on a club ll'vel. broke up and University aid was withdrawn. 
This year's reorganization of the dub is largely the result of the efforts of junior Bob Hellmuth, ~,·ho took over the responsibility of 

coordinating the ski competition 
program. 
The team has already competed in two invitational meets and is scheduled to participate in the Ohio Governor's Cup meet the weekend of February 16 and 17. 
The lack of snow and good local faeilities prevents the Irish skiiers from any mid-week practice and is a con~iderable ·handicap. llt'llmuth says that some op­ponents the Irish face get as much as five hours of practice in a day. 
In view of this, the Irish are doing well if they place just one skier 
A real surprise for the Irish has been Pete Bartzen, a junior from Duluth. Minnesota. In spite of the 
Junior Pl'te Bartzen has be~n a most pleasant surprise for the Notre Dame skiing team this year. Bartzen , shown here in slalom com­petition in last weekend's meet. placed second in that event and gamered another second-pluce finish in the giant slalom. 
laek of practice Bartzen has defeated some of the top skiers in the midwest. Last weekend at Lacrosse. Wise., Bartzen finished seeond in both the slalom and the giant slalom out of a field of 60 entrants. Bartzen. however, was the onlv Irish skier to place. 
The frish have competed against Miehigan Tech, Northern l\lichigan. Wisconsin, Michigan and Michigan state this winter. All of these teams have extensive rosters that include several scholarship students and they feature the best collegiate skiers in 
the Midwest. 
It's encouraging to note that after a six-year absence the Notre Dame ski program is, at the same time. on the rise and going down hill fast. 
ND sailors set spring schedule 

Notre Dame's sailing club, the number three-ranked team in the midwest last year, is beginning its twenty-fifth season of operation. 
f<'ormal team practices have been slated for Tuesday and Thursday afternoons, with more informal sessions being held on other days. Meetings are scheduled for every Wednesday in Room 204 of the Engineering Ruilding (at 6::m p.m.), and all Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students and faculty are invited to attend. 
Everyone is also invited to at­tend the afternoon practices, and to try to earn a place on the squad. Freshmen and girls are eligible for the team. and sailing ability is not essential for club membership. 
The Irish sailors' slate of competition includes other Mid­western Collegiate Sailing Association schools--Wisconsin, Iowa. indiana, Michigan State, and Ohio State.· among others--and occasional road regattas in areas such as New Orleans, California, and Annapolis. 
Further information can be obtained py attending the Wed­nesday evening meetings or calling Bruce Marek (race team captainl--8360. or AI Constants <commodore )--3573. 






