On The Inside 
S B P candidates an­nounce ... page 3 Soph literary festival plans ... page 7 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Thursday, February 22, 1973

Vol. VII No. 86 


Election committee sets 'special' 
by Mike Kulczycki Staff Reporter 

Notre D.,me's Election Committee finalized plans last night for an Election Special to be released February 26 in con­junction with the Observer .. 
Election Committee Chairman Paul Dziedzic described the sixteen page Election special as similar in size to the Irish sports Weekly and said., "Each candidate will have one page to do whatever he wants in terms of text. photographs, and artwor,." This Election Special will be available at dinner, Monday. Feburary 26. 
Compromise 

The Election Committee reached a com­promise with the Observer at their meeting on the question of financing the Election Special and its editorial control. 
The Election Committee and the Observer 
are each providing $100 to finance the the 
publication of the Election Special, as a 
"valuabvle supplement." 
In explaining the Election Special to a later 
meeting of SBP and SBVP candidates, 
Dziedzic said, "In order to have your page in 
the Election Special, you will be asked to fill 
out a separate questionaire --put out by the 
Observer." 
Dziedzic added that reasons for not filling in the questionaire must be included if that is the Members of the election committee announce a special election publication. 

candidate's decision. However, "the Election Committee has decided that any reason will be accepted," and each cnadidate will receive a page in the Election Special. 

deadlines 
Dziedzic stressed the starting time for the campaingns-Thursday at 6 pm -to the SBP and SBVP candidates and distibuted copies of the election rules as decided by the Election Committee. Twelve of the thirteen SBP ­SBVP teams were present at the meeting, only the ticket of Ray Carlson and Tom Kastelic was missing. The Election Com­mittee requested that the copy and photographs for the Election Special be in the Observer office by 2:30 pm Friday. 
In answering questions Dziedzic pointed out the page order in the Election Special will be _juggled, and the front and back pages will be used by the Election Committee to prevent its strategic use by any candidate. Dziedzic also said there will be "no censorship outside of profanity," and no editing of the texts or statements. 


cmnpaign problems 
Members of the Election Committee will be available in the Student Government offices from 7 to 8 pm until the election, to handle any complaints or questions arinsing from the campaigns. Dziedzic stressed that violations of the election restrictions will be taken seriously. 
Each SBP candidate is provided with $15.4u credit at the Campus Press, where the poster size for campaingn printing has been limited to 11 x 14 inches. 
The primary election will be held Tuesday, February 27, and if a general election runoff is required on March 1, only the top two primary candidates will be considered. 


Black faculty form to protect black im.age 
by David Rust Staff Reporter 

Notre Dame's black faculty and staff have taken the first steps toward establishing an organization which they hpe will, among other things, combat the "bad publicity the black community has received," ac­cording to newly-elected chairman D. Alech Che­Mponda. 
Che-Mponda, assistant professor of government and international relations, emphasized last night that "bad publicity" about blacks was not the only reason behind formation, nor has the faculty-staff group been formally developed. 
But the new chairman was concerned with what he called the "image" the black community on campus has been getting, especially through the campus media. 
"We are rather concered with the type of publicity the black community has recieved in The Observer," said Che-Mponda, "especially in its emphasis on the Black House. From reading about it (in The Observer) it appears as if black students are not interesed in studies as much as social matters." 
He was referring to the present debate pver a black 
student panel proposal, first heard by the Student Life 
Council last Feb. 5, to create a "Black House" off­
campus which would be used by both University and 
South Bend blacks for a host of activities, academic 
and social, and which would serve as a meetingplace 
for all blacks in the area. 
The panel that presented the idea to the SLC felt that 
such a house was "the University's responibility to 
black students." Hollowing the proposal the need for a 
Black House and the details behind establishing one 
have been actively debated within the University. 
Che-Mponda said his group feels there has been a 
misrepresentation of the blacks' position on the 
matter. 
"We thought the black voice had not been well­
represented in that way,'; he said. 
Che-Mponda was elected chairman at the group's 
first meeting, held last Monday, and Dr. Williamponda 
was elected chairman at the group's first meeting, held 
last Monday, and Dr. William Richardson, assistant 
professor of mosern and classical languages, was 
elected co-chairman. 
It was also at this meeting that the decision was 
made to set up a formal organization, explained its 
chairman. 
Che-Mponda said he hoped the group would meet at sity, Professor Che-Mponda was first signed on to the least once again febore Wednesday to "elect some University faculty for the 1973 spring semester. He is a more officers, perhaps draw up a constitution,". and native of Tanzania and teaches primarily ·black more clearly define what direction the new studies, including a course on the Swahili language organization will take. which he believes is the first Swahili course ever of­
Recently awarded his Ph.D from Howard Univer-fered at Notre Dame. 
Ne"W St. Mary's calendar set; different from ND calendar 
by Maria Gallagher St. Mary's Editor 
The new academic calendar released by Saint Mary's for the 1973-74 fall semester is two class days shorter than its Notre Dame counterpart and includes differences in the midsemester and Thanksgiving breaks. The calendars are iden­tical in all other respects, and the spring semester schedules for the two schools are also the same. 
Notre Dame's midsemester holiday extends from the last class on October 18 through the 22, while the break at Saint Mary's begins a day later and classes resume on October 23, as at Notre Dame. 
Thanksgiving holidays are scheduled to begin at Saint Mary's after the last class on Friday, November 16, but do not begin at Notre Dame until Wednesday, November 21. Both schools return on November 26. 
Saint Mary's Vice President for Academic Affairs Dr. William Hickey noted that the calendar received "almost unanimous support" from the department chairmen, the Student Assembly, and the Academic Affairs Council, where it received final approval. Hickey said that he saw "nor real conflict" between the schedules for students enrolled in coexchange courses. 
"Any problems will be easily worked out with faculty cooperation," Hickey stated. He h~s asked department chairmen to recommend to faculty members that no exams be given on those days when the schedules do not coincide. 
Many students are concerned that the holi<iay differences will make it difficult for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students who plan rides together, especially brothers and sisters. They pointed out the inconvenience of waiting around for other students, and believe that the calendar will encourage "cutting" around vacation time. 
The question of shuttle service between the two campuses was also raised, since the buses do not ordinarily run during holidays. This would possibly affect Notre Dame students with classes at Saint Mary's on October 19, and Saint Mary's students with Notre Dame classes from November 19-21. 
"You can't convince me that students will stay around if they've got a ride offer and the prospect of no shuttle service to their classes," one Saint Mary's professor commented. 
Hickey revealed he had incurred some op­position from students and parents about the scheduling of two vacations each semester, rather than extending the Thanksgiving and spring breaks. 
"I've met quite regularly with Dr. Burke from Notre Dame," said Hickey, "and the present schedule seems the most feasible." 
He defended the fall midsemester holiday saying that a break of some sort was needed in addition to Thanksgiving, and said that the spring break could not be combined with Easter 
because the  holyday  falls  too  late  in  the  
semester.  
Hickey  feels  that  the  1974-75  academic  

calendar will pose "far more significant im­plications" for the two campuses. He cited Notre 
(continued on page 6) 


Thursday, February 22, 1973
the observer 

warld briefs 
(C) 1973 New York Times' 

Vientiane-Shortly after completion of an agreemnt to end the war 
in Laos. U.S. Officials here rushed to make contact with the Com­
munist Pathet Lao, apparently to get a list of American Prisoners of 
War in Laos, where several hundred Americans are missing. The 
agreement establishes an interim coalition government and an ex­
change of prisoners within 60 days. 
Washington-The government plans to approve a "morning after" contraceptive drug for women-but only in emergencies such as rape. The drug, which has been used for other purposes for more than 30 years (and has sometimes been prescribed as a contraceptive) has recently been linked to cancer in daughters whose mothers used it during pregnancy. 
Washington-President Nixon painted a rosy picture of the economy and took a swipe at Congressional critics of his budget cuts, calling for "responsible prosperity." The alternative, the President warned, using the words of Franklin D. Roosevelt, could be to be "Wrecked on the rocks of lose fiscal policy." 
an campu• taday 
1:00 4:00 isis gallery open. 
7:30 lecture. economic problems in modern india, ken jameson, india '73 series, carroll hall, smc. 
8:00 lecture, the watched society, nat hentoff, library auditorium. 
8:30 play, after the rain, nd-smc theatre, washington hall. tickets $1.50, advance call 4176. 
9:00 concert, jazz at nine, nd jazz band, Iafortune main lounge.. 


ND tax-aid project started 
by Jim Ferry Staff Reporter 

A group of Notre Dame students and local accountants are preparing for an Income-tax-aid project in the inner-city South Bend area, and student 'aid is needed for the project. 
"Our obJeCtive is to reach the lower income people in South Bend and help them with their income tax forms." according to second year MBA student Tom Walsh. 
"Many of these people might not be ·able to take fullest ad­vantage of tax laws because they don't know about such things." 
Walsh emphasized that he is particularly interested in in­dividuals with "non-taxable in­comes". Welfare and Social Security payments as both dassified as non-taxable. 

"Indiana law provides a $8. per person sales tax rebat for these poeple. A family of four or five without ,1·ebate· could receive $40, and that's quite a lot." 
Sponsored by the Notre Dame Graduate Business School and the South Bend Model Cities Program, training session for interested students will be held on Monday, February 26 at 7:30 p.m. in room 122 in the Hayes-Healey Center. A second training session is planned for Tuesday, February 27 at 7:30 
by Patti Cooney Staff Reporter 

The proposed change in St. Mary's student government from a single executive to an executive board will receive attention at Friday's meeting of the Student Affairs Committee. 
The new structure would be called St. Mary's Board of Governance, and would consist of a chairman sharing equal respon­sibility with the Hall Life Com­missioner. Student Affairs Com­missioner, and the Academic Affairs Commissioner. 
·'The philosophy behind the change is to distribute the responsibility instead of con­centrating it on one person," ex­plained Barb McKiernan, who has worked on the proposal. 
P1·esent1y the governing structure is headed by the president. vice-president, secretary. treasurer, and the eommissioners who make up the <•xecutive cabinet. "One of the disadvantages to the present 
p.m. in room 120 of Hayes-Healey. 
"We have recruited some stu­dents who speak Spanish for help in the Mexic~n-American com­
munity," said Walsh. 
He added that "even if a person doesn't speak Spanish, we'd love to have them." 
The aid program will run from arch 3 until April 14. Help will b e available on Saturdays, from 8:00 
a.m. to 5:00 p.m. at the Model Cities office located at 1002 West Thomas. Help will also ·be available on Wednesday and Thursday evenings from 5:00-8:00 
p.m. at thellanselCenter in South Bend. 
Interested students whould call (i24B formore information. 
Nevv St. Marys student govt? 
system is that the ultimate responsibility for functioning rests on the student body president," commented Sue Welte, student body president. 
Both Welte and McKiernan stressed that the new structure is designed to give the students more of an opportunity to get involved. Another point stressed is that the ehairman and the commissioners would have equal responsibility. Each commissioner has the right to set up their own committee to work on special projects and is directly responsible for their area of concern. 
The chairman would sit on the studnet assembly, the student 
The Observer is published daily 1 during the college semester except I vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions 
I 
may be purchased for $8 per 
•semester ($14 per year) from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556: Second class 

affairs council. chair the college 
eouncil.  and  act  as  student  
representative  of  St.  Mary's  
College.  

The Board of Governance would meet every two weeks and the three executive commissioners would meet monthly. 
Last week the Student Assembly passed the proposal. If it passes the Student Affairs committees on Friday. it will go before the Student Affairs Council within the next two weeks. 
"The important thing is for the students to realize that this is not just a change in form, but a whole new concept," stated McKiernan. 

SWEENEYS SHAMROCK 
Downtown South Bend 

Our sweatshirts are in •• last order before St. Patrick's Day 
THE NOTRE DAME-ST. MARY'S THEATRE 
AFTER THE RAIN 
JOHN BOWEN'S absorbing theatrical morality play surrounding events 200 years hence---after the rain. 
February 16, 17, 22, 23, 24 at 8:30pm 
Washington Hall Notre Dame Campus 
Students, Faculty, Staff $1.50 
Reservations: 284-4176 (Business Hours) 
· 283-7054 (Show Nights) 
TRAVEL BUREAU "ON CAMPUS"-BADIN HALL 

*Airline Reservations *Complete Domestic and Foreign Services *Representative for all Airlines *No Additional Cost 
"Oriented to Youth Programs" 
FIRST BANK &TRUST TRAVEL 
Phone : 283-7080 






KEEP TRUCKIN' 

Over to the Notre Dame Party Centers •• Town & Country and Riverpark Liquors II 
REPEAT SPECIAL! ! on MILLER AND SCHLITZ! WI:RE TRUCKIN' 


KARLOF VODKA '/2 gal. $89?  PEPSI 79' 8-16 oz. ctn.  BACARDI RUM $116o '/2 gal.  
MD 20-20 fifth $132  BARCLAY'S GIN $960 '12 gal.  Gallo $292 HEARTY BURGUNDY '/2 gal.  

10% Diseount by the Case 

TOWN &COUNTRY RIVERPARK :~:;t ~::rr LIQUOR LIQUOR 
T & c Shopping Center 2411 Mish. Ave.
Also COI1f;9'd Mall in Elkhart 
PriCes In Town 
D~ntown open Mon. & Ttiurs. 'til 9. Blackmond's open Fri. ~hl9. Others rlite 'til9. 
The Notre Dame Party Centers
*Wine Cellar 
~-------------------------, 
Wesolowski and Angeluzzi to stage an informal campaign 
by Michael Welby Staff Reporter 
Dan Wesolowski. a junior I<:nglish major. and Jay Angeluzzi, a third year Pre-med student, began th~ir "loose and informal campaign" for Student Body President and Vice President last night before a small group at Pangborn Hall. 
\Vesolowski. in announcing his hrid two-point platform stated, "I could talk all night about the burning issues on this campus like La Fortune. coed housing and Arthur Pears but just about Pveryone has these issues in their 
Dan Wesolowski. left, and Jay Angeluzzi pledge help to off-campus
platform. They're obvious and 
community. Christian atmosphere.
don't need to be mentioned." 
(~overnment and the HPC couldThe first point on their platform "renewing of a christian en­work together thro1.1gh the halls." 
was to "help the off-campt.Js \'ironment on campus." This, A change in the atmosphere wouldstudent". Wesolowski suggested Wesolowski pointed out did not he "an improvemnt in hall life."
organizing the information on mean in a Catholic sense but Roth Wesolowski and his run­openings in student housing. "Not rather in the general atmosphere. 
ning mate Angeluzzi spoke of aPnough students known how much lie blamed many of the current need to confront the studentsol'f·campus housing there is." problems on campus to this "lack directly with the problems of the'.\'Psolowski also proposed a of C'hristiar atmosphere." 
campus. welcoming debates with"security hotline for off-campus A problem of this kind would best any of their opponents. "Any other students" and a food co-op plan. be approached at the hall level. 
kind of speech-making would justSpcond on the platform was a Wesolowski felt that "Student be 'talk'." he said. 

Clarke, Singleton plan to 
abolish SBP-SBVP posts 
by Joseph A bell Managing Editor 
D{'scribing a campaign dealing "only with the transfer of the present service-oriented com­missions of student Government to the HPC under the executive coordinator," Jim Clarke and form{'r Research and Develop­m{'nt Commissioner and Chris Singleton. Farley Hall president, announced their candidacy for Student Body President and Vice­President last night. 
Speaking before an estimated crowd of 75 in-the Farley Hall basement. the candidates declared that if their campaign was suc­cessful. they intended to abolish the positions of SBP and SBVP in favor of a system of student government dominated by the IIPC' and an executive coordinator appoin t{'d by the HPC chairman. 
"'There will be no duplication of authority this way." Singleton Pxplained. "Student Government has always come to the HPC for l'Verythin"g anyway. I think it's the most responsible body on cam­pus." 
('Iarke pointed out that the HPC would not totally take over the duties of Student Government. but would onlv share in them.­
"The on.ly new HPC function will he handle the funds Student (;overnment used to handle." he said. "The HPC would draw up the budget and the HPC chairman would lobby before the ad­ministration for what the students want." 
The actual duties of the Student Body President would then be divided between the HPC chair­man and the executive coordinator that that chairman would appoint. he elaborated. 
"The students would thus have a more true representation in student government," Singleton added. 
Clarke also advocated abolition of the Student Life Council in favor of a single student body in the HPC. Seeing the present SLC as a body established "only to appease the students" during the issues of drinking and hall regulations in past years. he feels the students are not as unified as they were at that time, and hence do not need such a body. 
"Students are more content," he said. "They see that they don't have to fight for things like parietals when they can get around" the present rules. 
Clarke and Singleton also an­nounced that a full presentation of their platform would be made in the lobby of the South Dining Hall at !i:OO tonight. 
Jim Clarke. left. and Chris Singleton vow to abolish present student go1•ernment organization. 
Nollet and Goetz pro:mote an activist govern:ment 
by Tom McKenney Staff Reporter 
Promising to bring activism hack into Student Government, Don Nollet and Michael Goetz opened up their campaign for student office last night. 
Nollet. the SBP candidate, and a fourth year Sociology major from Hibbing, Minnesota opened, saying, "Nobody belives in Student Government anymore and I'm tired of hearing that Student Government can't do anything. What student government needs is a leader. 
"Since the time of the Krashna administration the Student Government has been hung up on in rhetoric and reports. I'm not so serious about Student Government that lam going to get bogged down by councils and reports." 
Nollet proposes to hit Notre Dame students with a barrage of what he terms "absurdities" that will draw the students' attention to 
if::\\\\!i,iili;, .,i 
to student government. 
the critical issues. 
The candidate refered to "other days" on the Notre Dame campus when students were not afraid stand up and confront the ad­ministration with the issues. Nollet credited the leadership of former 
(continued on page 6) 

IUIUIIIIII-JUPIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII._ 
STORY PLACEMENT 
ON  THIS  PAGE  WAS  
DETERMINED  BY  
LOTTERY.  

11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Thursday, February 22, 1973 the observer 
3 

../·
-. 
-~­
• 
Michael Goetz. left, and Don Nollet promise to bring activism back 
,, 







THE OBSERVER 

AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
The Black Proposals

John Abowd Dan Thornton Editor-in-Chief Business Manager
NEWS: 283-1715 EDITORIALS: 283-8661 Don Ruane BUSINESS: 283-7471 Joe Butler jim nap..,. Executive Editor Advertising Manager 
Thursday, February 22, 1973 

The February Blues: 
It's that Time of Year Again 
It's the end of February. Two things the questions. happen at the end of February-Sludent The survey questions are: Body President elections and a general free-for-all in potshots at this publication. 1) How will you apportion the $86,000 In order to minimize confusion and un­student government budget? founded rumors the rules which we have 2) Who will fill your major appointed formulated for election coverage are positions (Executive coordinator, 
listed here: Academic commissioner, Judicial, 
-no member of the editorial board or etc.)? reporting staff may work for a can­3) How much will you spend on this didate in any capacity. campaign? 
-no member of the editorial board or 4) Are you a "serious" candidate? If so reporting staff may wear the campaign why? paraphenalia of any candidate. 5) Evaluate this year's student govern­-no campaign statement made after 10:00 ment and note any differences that will 
p.m. the day before publication will be exist between your administration and covered in the next day's paper. (This the present one? is a standard election coverage rule 6) Do you consider the Board of Com­
which prevents candidates from missioners a viable form of stude.nt making broad charges when it is too government? Would you continue it? Ia te to get a response from those 7) Would you make any substantive 
charged.) changes in the role of the Hall 
-since there are 13 candidates, no in­Presidents Council? dividual coverage will appear on the· 8) Who do you consider the most im­front page. All individual coverage will portant Notre Dame administrator appear on pages four and five. Only a with whom you will have to deal? 
wrap-up story will appear on the front 9) Evaluate the performance of the page. Student Life Council in general and on the issue of campus housing? Would Two other major changes in election you abolish the SLC? 
coverage have been introduced this year. 10) Do you favor forcing students to live The joint financial sponsorship of the off-campus? Election Special makes possible a much 11) Do you feel Notre Dame has pursued more extensive publication. In fact, the coeducation properly? What, if amount of unrestricted space is only anything, would you change? slightly less than the total amount of 12) Do you have a specific proposal for 
formal campaign · coverage per can­campus security? If so, what? didate. 13) Do you favor extending the pass-fail Additionally, The Observer intends to option? 
ask each candidate to fill out a 14) Do you favor starting the academic questionnaire. The purpose of this survey year before Labor Day? is not to delineate the principle questions 15) You should have asked us---­of the campaign. Any candidate can We would have refuse to answer. However, the student answered body has a right to know if a candidate 
John Abowdhas not prepared a position on many of 
: l liiHIIIIUIIUUlllUlllU1111IIIIJIIIIIHIIJ111111111111111111II1111111111111111111N U 111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Editor: sappy or overdone <as is so often the ease with reviews of this sort. l Congratulations to Kerry I. look forward to reading this 1\lcNamara on a warm and writer in the Observer in the 
tastefully written review. <re: future.
Letter 

"The Master of Mime." Monday February 19 Observer. l McNamara writes with a professional style and adds to it D. Seott Enrighteareful insights that never become 
Recent Black students' proposals presented to the SLC and the HPC have ranged from the unreasonable to the needed. Campus Blacks have chosen several realistic approaches to rectifying their problems in counseling, practical affairs, and to some extent in social matters. Unfortunately, the Black students' sensitivity to their own needs have led to an occasional disregard for the rights of both other minorities and the white students on campus. 
Black House 

As presently proposed, the Black House program , which would be initially funded by the University, constitutes a fundamental in­fringement upon the rights of the Black's fellow students. Campus Blacks are indirectly requesting their fellow students to finance thru the University, a virtual "club house" to be used solely for the Biack's purposes. The majority of the student population would in effect help purchase the house but would recieve no tangible benefits fron it. 
In addition, if the University does indeed cooperate and appropriate the requested funds, all non-black students would find themselves donating to a charity which would subsidize a privileged group within the university. This is hardly a democratic principle and hardly in agreement with the values of the majority of people at Notre Dame. 
Of course, Black House proponents cite several reasons indicating the urgency for a social house. One reason for the Black House is the "prevailing" white social atmosphere of the University which tends to <·mphasize the white culture at the expense of the Blacks'. If indeed this stifling white atmosphere does exist, Chicanos, Orientals, and to some extent other minorities undoubtedly must feel it. Therefore, if the best interests of theUniversity community do include the creation or a minority house. equality dictates that all other significant campus minorities be included along with Blacks in any University-funded off campus project. 
In addition to the problem of equality, this Black House proposal raises an even more fundamental social question. Should the llniversity encourage a further split between Blacks and the rest of the University? A social center off campus would undoubtedly redirect Black students' attention from the University campus and concentrate it almost solely toward an esoteric, off campus institution. 
This would create a virtual break with the University and leave the eampus only minimally open to Black social influence. Eventually, two University communities would come to exist separated by both gpographical and cultural factors. 
('lparly. the University community's best interests do not lie in a dichotomized institution, but rather in an institution which allows for the free Pxpression of cultural groups, such as the Blacks, Orientals and Chicanos, within the total framework of the community. Within this limited realm lies not only the best interests of all the pt>ople of Notre Dame but of America as well. 
Required -Minority Understanding 101 

Another proposal, which Blacks have presented, is a required course for minority understanding. Proponents of this program wish to restrict the individual student's course selection liberty in an effort to increase minority appreciation. 
Altho a minority understanding course could be very worthwhile, several aspects of any required course proposal warrant criticism. J<'irst, requiring this course would once again infringe upon a student's personal liberty. One of the general values of any higher educational institution is that its students, because of their intelligence and maturity, should possess the personal liberty to chose any course of an elective nature without interference·from outside groups. A requirement for .a minority understanding course would certainly infringe upon this liberty. Secondly, no matter how worthwhile this proposed course would be, unwilling students, forced at "grade point" into this course, would retrieve only minimal value from it. An in­dividulll may obtain real value from a course only if he choses to take it because of a willingness to Jearn about the course's subject. Taking a course for any other reason constitutes a mockery of education. 
Every person on campus can sympathize with at least some of the Black rPquests. The man to woman ratio for Blacks is certainly inadequate. The Campus Ministry should definitely make available to all students non-denominational services. Complaints concerning the lack of Black counseling may well be founded. Black requests for places for women visitors to stay are reasonable, and rather easily rPmedied, provided the women in Walsh and Badin are willing to help. 
Several Black proposals have challenged other student's rights in an effort to improve existing inadequacies. While Black students do indeed posse!js social problems, the remedies for these problems do not lie in the encroachment of others rights. With SBP elections and llnfversity decisions approaching, candidates and officials must seriously address themselves to Black students' honest, social grievances. but they must beware never to lose sight of other students' rights in their efforts to overcome Black problems. 
daanesbury t;~arry trudeau the observer 
ISSUE STAFF: 

Night Editor: Art Esposito Ass't Night Editor: Art Esposito Layout: Art Esposito H~p: Anthony Abowd Day Editor: Tom Drape Sports Night Editor: Vic Dorr Picture-taker of hopeful poobahs: Jim Hunt Picture Fixer: Jerome Phillips Night Controller: Sober Rope.­Typists: Joe Wilkowski, Barb Norcross, John 
Flannigan, Rob Barringer Rabble: Joe Abell, Maria Gallagher, Jim Donald· son, Mike Baum, etc. Culinary Delights: Cavanaugh Hall pizzas and Huddle cokes. 
Editorials printed in The Observer reflect the opinion of the writ::r on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the individual writer; they are not lo be taken as editorial comment. 

Thursday, February 22, 1973 the observer 
5 


washington: we do remember! 
rev. maurice powers 
They are dead now from chaotic war bred by warped minds of science that tried so Rei'. Maurice E. Powers, C.S.C., is an hard to make us heretics of civilization . 

alumnus of Notre Dame, winner of the 
..We claim our heritage in blood and spirit from Their legacy is not common dust, but a 
Breen Medal for Oratory while a student; shining freedom. When the Universal named Chaplain in Armed Forces in 1942 Commander takes the great reviewingand served on three continents and in 13 stand to pin on each a morning star, the campaign battles; Africa, Italy, Normandy Washington and the men who stood with him whirling of the planets will be the music of and later in the Korean Campaigns, the band. and the winds will play an anthem receiving five separate medals for heroism that will echo through the vistas of the sky; 
and cited by two presidential citations. His marching on forever lest freedom ever die; article in The Observer a year ago, "The and those who came after, emulating his that you and I might live, only emulating the Stranger Who Is My Brother" has been great man, Washington who gave impetus
nominated for an award by Freedoms to this spirit. Foundation. Valley Forge, Pennsylvania, for 1972; the award being made on Fearuary courage and ideals." liberty 
22. 1973. Fr. Powers is stationed here at There is a life that is worth living; the
Notre Dame and is heard often over WNDU­
honest life. the useful life, the unselfish life

TV. 
cleansed by devotion to a cause. High in the firmament of human destiny are set the stars of faith in mankind, unselfish courageAmong those men whose union in purpose and loyalty to an ideal, portrayed soand action made the strength and stability recently by the loyalty of our POWsof the Hepublic. George Washington was the released from prisons in the Far East; afirst. not only in the nobility of thought, the shining Americanism that loyalty exhibited loftiness of his desires and the vigor of his by their predecessor and ideal, Washington will. but also with a representative quality who stood with his men as dauntless. Sincethat makes a man to stand as a true hero of liberty is something that cannot bea great people. He had an instinctive power dismissed by time or history, it is notto divine and anticipate, amid the confusion something that can be kept fom people or aof rival interests and factional strife, new nation by walls or border guards if theaims. hopes and vital aspirations which people wish it. It only needs to be initiatedwere the common inspiration of the people's and a land.

cause and the creative forces of new and 
implemented in new 
Washington made that the fiber of hisnascent nation. The power to understnd dedication, always saying that he who has itthis: the faith to believe in it. and the un­dignified by it, he who does not have it,selfish courage to life for it. was the Central seeks it: he who hates liberty is challengedfactor of Washington's life; the heart and by it as were Nero, Hitler, Stalin. Asfoundation fo his splendid Americanism. 

Patrick Henry said, "there must be no militia leader compromise in preserving it." The document of undying worth, the Declaration 
Born in 1732 in Virginia of landed estate of Indepencence, was formulated as a truth an~stry, yet at 21 he became the leader of to be demonstrated, a statement to be the· Virginia militia. and in the French and maintained even unto our time. Indian War of 1756, he brought his gallant unit to Pittsburgh. was defeated along with dedication Ihe British at Ft. Necessity, but regained 
courage in winning the Battle of the In this nascent, growing Nation, m~ we Monogehela and other minor skirishes. He have malice towards none, with charity 
was n•called to Virginia shortly after being towards all. and firmness in the right that named a Colonel by General Braddock, God gives us to see the right. In our own !hen• to serve and later become head of the 
patriotism may our dedication remember 

llouse of Burgesses. the legislative group of our symbol, the Statue of Liberty which the Colony_ Two decades Ia ter he became eloquent. perhaps, than others, he had that toil. her shrines of art, her churches built on Washington symbolically wore across his tlw head of the Continental Congress in 1774, rare balance of large powers which freedom's soil. heart unto death,reflecting the words of the 
just prior to being named unanimously justified Lowell's phrase for him: "The now silent poet-laureate in his dedicationto this noble Commander of all Continental Forces aginst Imperial Man." His athletic skills, his ideal: the British in 1775. His victories at Boston, steadiness of nerves restraining the in­These were men of Ticonderoga and Trenton and Princeton establishea nim, tensity of passion, his undaunted courage Valley Forge, of Gettysburg, Bastogne, "I will c)large the gates of Hell. 'til dawn ('Ven though these were intermingled with which refused no necessary risks, and his Korea or Yorktown. They built from hours falls out of the sky, an occasional reverse. Ultimately he forced pmdence which took no unnecessary ones, that die: old hours like intervals of light are :\nd if so be I come at last to lay wherer your the surrender of Cornwallis at Yorktown his grasp of large ideas, the pressing energy gone, but their names are forever enrolled white feet are. ;~nd brought about the liberation of the of executing small details, the depth of his with Washington, Jefferson, Lincoln, Grant, A battered armor . a shield, a sword or a l 'olonies. convictions and intelligence, and the insight Nimitz. Sergeant York or Colin Kelly, even broken song, to apply them to every-day affairs, his though they now lie silent as an alien wind 0 Lady of Light and Love. Beauty and 1
forging a nation 

singular superiority to current prejudices, caresses these fallen sons of heroism. Their Mystery, all these ere gifts making him distinguished still white crosses and Stars of David stretch It matters not at a_ll what else may happen
The ensuing years were busy ones for the 
in any company, in any age. His supreme awayendlessly towards the sunset in arrow­to me
statesmen. forging a nation. In 1789 he was magnanimity encouraged others to trust straight diagonals, marking a design for If only I gain and maintain you. 0 beautifulunanimously chosen the first President of 
him implicitly; no one ever forgot his duty eternity, bivouacked in God's consecrated Ladv.
!he new nation. His figure bulked large in and integrity in the cause of the Republic , acre awaiting the morning reveille of Light. Though night in this life be ever so long."
the eyes of his fellow statesmen. politicians, the people_
diplomats and even the farmers and workers. Literature and historical files as supremacy of character 

answer to yesterday's trivia 
well as legends bespeak the tremendous solicitude he had for the common people as As a patriot Washington aimed not at he remained aloop from partisan struggles. prominence nor power, but a dedication. 

crossword puzzle 
As a FPderalist he was conservative. His The supremacy of character is seen in his common-sense attitude endeared him to 
wisdom as a son of the South when he chose l'veryone, even to sensitive political blocs most of the generals for the Revolutionary springing up everywhere to oppose him. Army from the North that he might secure unity and efficiency in the Army. He Americanism disregarded petty jealousies, immune to rivalries that existed, as he praised the Washington gave to his high office a sense achievements of both officers and men when of devotion and dedication to the cause merited. In his appointment of the mem­called Americanism; to give wisdom and bers of the first Supreme Court he did not 
l 
progress and care for the cause of consider close personal friends or members l.'veryone; a super-patriot with a love for his of the exclusive colonial set, but selected 
l
country his people and his convictions. He men who would serve the Union with 
j
always reckoned that true Americanism is fidelity: Jefferson, Randolph, Hamilton, not in the clothes, nor intransient social Knox. Jay, Wilson, Cushing and Rutledge. forms. refined or rude that mottle the This, in brief, is the interpretation of 
~ 
surface of human life. The Log Cabin had no Washington ; the drama of an eternal monopoly on Americanism. nor the stateJy conflict in the soul of a man between self­
l
pillared mansion of certain colonists an interest or that of loyalty to a cause, an immoveable fixture. Its home is not on the allegiance to a people. frontier. nor in the teeming populous cities, 
our heritage

not among the ;lrees of the forest or among the cultured groves 01 the higher learning of We claim our heritage in blood and spirit the acadame. Americanism dwells in and from Washington and the men who stood comes from the heart. This subordination of with him and those who came after, the personal self to. the ideal. that creed, emulating his courage and ideals. Thus a that vision in what gave eminence and glory tribute is not without reason for those who to George Washington. Those who did not came decades after Washington, who surrender themselves to the pure and loyal thought enough of him and the American service of the ideal. the cause, were the men dream to stand erect, be vigilant as they who later were embalmed in their own in-, defended our right to elect freely those who famy_ would govern: defend our right to worship 
freely, to own private property, the "The Imperial Man" 
privilege to defend America with her far­flung praries and orchard lands, her Washington was prominent among his mountain tops of fir and pine, her myriad contemporaries in natural endowments. marts of trade, her men dressed in the Less brilliant in mental gifts than some, less vestments of labor, her factories of fervent 

Thursday, February 22, 1973
6 
the observer 




SMC calendar differs from ND 
(continued from page I) 
Dame's preference of a pre-Labor 
Day starting date, while "all the 
feedback here about such an early 
start has been negative." 
Hickey speculated that a 
"definite possibility exists" that 
the two schools could go by dif­
f<•rnet calendars if the conflict over 
the early start continues. 
Several other calendar options 
are presently und.er review by the 
planning committee. One which 
has been under most careful study 
and has apparently received the 
most support is the 4-1-4 system, tiona! "winter term" offered tor which allows for an extended special projects. Christmas vacation with an op-
Sept. 1 3  Sat. thru Mon.  
Sept. 4  Tuesday  
Sept. 5  Wednesday  
Sept. 9  Sunday  
Sept. 14  Friday  
Oct. 8  Monday  
Oct. 19-22  Fr. thru Mon.  

Orientation and Counseling for new students. Reqistration for all students. 
Classic begin at 8:00a.m. 
Formal operning of the school year with , Concelebrated Mass (Subject to change). Latest date for all class changes. 
Columbus Day (classes meet). 
Midsemester Hoi iday after the last class. 
Goetz and Nollet announce 
(continued from page 3 
SBPs Dave Krashna and Richard 
ltossi for the activism on the Notre 
Dame campus in the past. 
Noll!:'! fPels that the University 

administration is very image 
nmcious and as a result the ad­
ministration will react when there 
is a threat of adverse publicity. 
Nolle! suggested that the parietals issue might be handled in this way. "Twenty-four hour parietals would help a lot around lwrC'." Nollet argued, "and by dpnying them the University is in fact discriminating against heterosexual behavior." Nollet feels that the sensationalism of this position will get the students behind him and the "bad publicity" will force the University to change the policy. 
Touching on the Lewis Hall in­cident. Nollet holed, "According to that precedent. anyone of you could have your room invaded. The Chief of Notre Dame security broke into that room in a most crude fashion and said he would do it again." Nollet added, "The administration gets away with a lot and its up to the students to go to the top and confront them." 
Goetz also attacked the ad­ministration for its policy on coeducation and called for a Five Year Plan specifying which dorms would be forfeited to the women. 
"To date," Goetz added, "the l lniversity has used a hit and miss process in planning the coeducation process. In truth it looks more like a hit and run program." 
In closing Nollet stated that he would be willing to devote a maximum of his time to the office, asserting. "More than anything I've got time to give to the Notre Dame student." 
Administration: no funds for Mr. Dirt 
by James Rosini Staff Reporter 

The Notre Dame administration said ·that it will not be able to supply the funds needed to make Mr. Dirt the Senior Class I<'ellow because of a University policy prohibiting the promotion of private companies. 
Official sources explain that money is not an issue but the election of Dirt would be a promotion for the Mobil Oil Company. The administration claims that it is not blocking the election but has chosen not to become involved. 
However. Bob Sauer, President of the Dirt Fanclub on campus, wants to bring Dirt to campus with funds <Supplied by the Mobil Oil Company. Sauer will negotiate with Mobil, hoping that the com­pany will bring Dirt to campus as a promotional stunt. 
Sauer also said, "The students 
can rest assured that Dirt 
definitely is coming to campus, 
win or lose the Senior Class Fellow 
election." Sauer promised that if 
funds were not available from 
Mobil. he would obtain the money 
from undisclosed sources. 
Jim Hunt. President of the 
Senior Class, is opposed to Dirt's 
election. Hunt says that if Dirt is 
elected there might not be another Senior Class Fellow because of administrative pressure. 
Yet Hunt wouldn't mind seeing Dirt receive another "honor," the I<'irst Annual Student Government Man of the Year Award, when he comes to campus. 
Prof to speak on 'watched society' 
Nat Hentoff, adjunct associate professor at New York University, will deliver a lecture entitled "The 

Watched Society" today in the Library Auditorium at 8:00 p.m. 
A well known writer, Hentoff contributes to such publications as tlw NC'w Yorker. the Village Voice and theN. Y. Times. The author of five books. including Our Children Our Dying and The New Equality. Benioff's latest work, TState SC'crC"tsandPolice Surveillance in A mC"rica. is due to \)(' released in .July. 
Tlw lecture is sponsored by the Student Union Academic Com­Illission. 
WhAT's ThE 

RELiGiOUS LiFE Lil{E? 
Ask the Men Who Know 
Contact: 
Fr. Andrew Cifemi, 0. Praem. 
Holy Cross Hall, 107 UND tele: 283-6185 
Oct. 23 
Nov. 29Dec. 6 Dec. 8 Dec. 15 Dec. 17 21 
Oct. 26 Nov. 1 Nov. 1625 Nov. 26 

Tuesday  Classes resume at  -:00 a.m.  
Friday  Midsemester Report of Deficient Students  
Thursday  All Snints' Day (classes meet).  
Fri. thru Sun.  Thanksgiving Holiday begins after the last  
class.  
Monday  Classes resume at 8:00a.m.  

Thurs. thru Thurs.Advance Registration tor Spring Semester 1973 74. Saturday F!'ast of the lmrnac~late Conception. 
Snturday Lost Class Day Monday Classes meet. 

Mon. thru Fri. Final Examinations (Grades due 48 hours niter exarn is qiven. No Sunday exams on .0<'C. 16). 
LAKESIDE THEATRE 
presents: 

Katherine Ross and Jason Robards in 
Admission $1 


"FOOLS" 
Saturday, Feb. 24, 8 & 10 pm at Holy Cross Hall (NO) 
Sunday, Feb. 25,8 & 10 pm in the Eng. Aud. 


THURSDAY ALUMNI CLUB 
presents 

Falstaff Special Starting at 9:30 (Beer, Prizes, Fun) 
LADIES SPECIAL 

Begins at 11:00 Whiskey sours:40¢ 

Senior Bar 

Now accepting resumes for next year's manager. Deliver at bar Wed., Thurs., or Fri. after 7:00pm. 
Deadline: March 2. Info. 283-7521 


-
Academic Commission Calendar 
Upcoming events sponsored by the Academic Commission are: Feb. 22, Thursday: The Watched Society a lecture by Nat Hentoff-8:00pm, Library Aud., Free Feb 23 & 24, Fri. & Sat.: The Decameron a movie by Pier Paulo Pasolini. Winner of the Silver Bear Award at the 1971 B<•rlin Film I<'estival, Engineering Aud., 8 & 10 pm, $1 ad­mission 
FC'b. 26, Monday: Othello a movie adaptation of Shakespeare's play by Sir Lawrence Olivier, 7:30 & 10:00 pm, Carroll Hall. SMC. no admission charge Veb. 26. Monday: Raga Ravi Shankar with George Harrison, a documentary, B & 10 pm, Engineering Aud., no admission charge Feb 28. Wl'dnesday: A lecture by Michael Harrington, author of Socialism. 8:00pm, free, Washington Hall i\larch I. Thursday: The Threat of Constituational U<'l•olution a lecture by Henry Steele Commanger, Library Aud.. ll:OO pm. free \larch 5, Monday: Macbeth an in-color film adaptation of Sh3kespcare's play, winner of 5 "Emmy Awards", starring :\Iaurice I<:vans and Judith Anderson, free, Eng. Aud. :\larch li, Tuesday: Sen. Birch Bayh, 8:00pm, Library Aud., free April :30, Monday: Cong. Shirley Chisolm, 8:00 pm, '''I.n· ghlin Hall, SMC, free 


IT DOESN 'T HAVE TO BE A PROBLEM! 
Long Hair can be a 
problem if it is not shaped 
properly. We will take 
the time to help you find 1the style that best 
fits your need. 


All 
Services By Appointment --Call Now 


Ohe WinJjammer 
HAll fi'I'UNG FOI DISCIIMINATINII MEN & IOYS 
~637 Lincoln Wav w. Closed Mondays Phone 232-6622 
r 

..,. Thursda.y, February 22, 1973 the observer 
Soph Literary Festival planned 
by Jim Lindsay Allen. Some of her other more Rexroth has translated More 
Staff Reporter popular works include Aloneness, Poems from the Chinese and 100 
Riot. and The Tiger Who Wore Poems from the Chinese. His most 
Playwright Arthur Miller, author White Gloves or !What You Really popular original works include The of Death of a Salesman and The Are You Are. Miss Brooks Collected Poems, The Crucible, will head the list of presently holds the honored literary artists appearing at this position of poet laureate for the year's Sophomore Literary state of Illinois, having succeeded l<'l'stival April 1 through April 6. the late Carl Sandburg. 
Other writers to appear include Poet Jerome Rothenberg is as novelist Chaim Potok, fictionist well known in literary for his ex­Stanley Elkin, and poets Gwen­cellent translations of American dolyn Brooks, Jerome Rothenberg, Indian poetry as for his own and Kenneth Rexroth. original work. His visit to Notre Miller. winner of the Pulitzer Dame will mark the first ap­Prize for his play Death of a pearance of a translator in the 
Salesman. is also well know for his festival's eight year history. 
\\·orks After the _Fall, The Price, This year's festival is most and A View from the Bridge. anxious to establish translation as 
Novelist and short-story writer a literary art in itself, according to Stanley Elkin will take time off festival chairman Frank Barrett. from his professorship at Among Rothenberg's more Washington University to attend popular translations is a collection the Notre Dame festival. Elkin's of peoms titled Shaking the major works include Bad Man, The Pumpkin. Traditional Poetry of Dick Gibson Show, and Criers and Indian North American, and Kibitzers. Kibitzers and Criers. Technician of the Sacred. His 
Poetess Gwendolyn Brooks holds original works inlude Poems for Barret: the distinction of being the first the Game of Silence 1960-1970. itself. _ person of African descent to be Kenneth Rexroth is another poet Collected Shorter Poems, and a awarded a Pulitzer Prize. She known for his translations. A book of essary titled Assays.
received the award in 1950 for a professor at the University of As festival plans now stand, each collection of poems titled Annie California at Santa Barbara, speaker will participate in two 

'WSDH' makes its debut 

by Bill Sabin piped-in FM rad-io broadcasts. 
Staff Reporter So far. he reports, student 
reponse has been "pretty good." 
The latest offering of the South One student commented: 'Yeh, Dining Hall comes in the form of it's better than the 'voice of Keemo. otherwise known as Mark congeniality' on WNDU, but you Tracy, the D.J., "coming to you can't hear him on the sides of the live on WSDH." · room." 
Trace is a checker at the South Dining Hall who twice-a-week runs "I'm an oldies-freak," says a pseudo radio-show over the Keemo. Typical records played on Dining Hall public address system his show are those past "goldie­during dinner. He broadcasts from oldies" that we all hold close to our an office in the northwest corner of hearts like "Momma Told Me Not the Dining Hall and plays a To Come" by the Three Dog Night selection of previous Top-40 hits, and "Love Can You Make Happy" interspersed with previews of by Merci. Keemo will also play upcoming menu selections and any requests that he happens to regular dining hall an­have in his record library. nouncements. What prompts somebody to 
Tracy began the WSDH shows attempt to entertain the "illiterate about four weeks ago on an ex­rabble" of the South Dining Hall in 
perimental  basis  after  getting  such a manner?  Keemo says that  
tentative approval from the dining  he wanted to be a D.J. ever since  
D. J. Keemo runs south dining hall radio.  hall management. He felt such a format would meet  that with  his brother became one. Besides, he points out that: "It's easier  
more  student approval  than  the  than checking."  

Fire,vandals hit Hayes-Healy 
Fire and vandalism produced a west corridor linking Hayes-Healy tune Student Cneter. "It looked smoke-damaged room and seven with the Business Administration like somebody just went along with broken windows in the Hayes­building were completely shat­a cigarette lighter and lit papers on Healy Building last night. tered, apparently from high the boards," one security guard 
Detecting smoke during his powered air-rifle shots. Other speculated. regular patrol in the building, a shots were apparently fired into No connection was drawn bet­Notre Dame security guard the windows of the first-floor ween the Hayes-Healy fire and the discovered the fire and alerted the women's restroom, but these were other fires by Security. Notre Dame fire department. relatively undamaged due to their Firemen found a couch in a tough plastic material. Alien life talk set women's lounge burning and Security was unable to im­
A discussion on the possibility of quickly extinguished the blaze. mediately determine the cause of finding extraterrestrial life will be Damage to the room included the fire, though one guard held tonight by Fr. Ernantotal destruction of the mattress on speculated that "it could just have McMullin of the Department ofthe couch, warpping of the been a cigarette dropped on the Philosophy.
overhead lighting panels and couch." 
The discussion, entitled "Are Weheavy smoke and heat damage to The Hayes-Healy fire last of Alone? The Quest For Ex­the doors and walls of the lounge. three fires discovered on campus tra terrestrial Life," will be held atInvestigation of the fire led to the last night. Previous fires were 8:00 p.m. in the Seminar Roomdiscovery of the broken windows. discovered on bulletin boards in mooom 303) of the EngineeringThe glass doors and panels of the O'Shaughnessy Hall and LaFor-Building. 
•

'Informal' JOZZ concert plays tonight 
The Notre Dame Jazz Band will include Nick Talarico and Don aJ urn of the same name. Both perform free, 9:00 Thursday, in Banas on trombone, Fedele Volpe arrangements will be contrasted LaFortune. on trumpet, Charles Rohrs on with the first performance of 
An informal concert program of tenor sax, Matt Brandes on Talarico's original free-form, jazz music, the concert en­baritone sax, Neil Gillespie on group improvisational com­compasses all styles of big baad piano. and Mike Kendall and position, "Mr. Smokes and the jazz from the swing style of J ohn Longo on drums. Rose Glass". Ellington and Basie to the bop of Included among the works on the Coming up on Thursday, March Thelonious Monk; from the rock of concert program will be three 1st in the "Jazz at Nine" series will \<'rank Zappa to avant garde free examples of the ccompositional be a lecture discussion on the art of form and pointillism. arranging skills of trombonist Nick trumpeter Miles Davis in the 
Jess Noonan, guitarist, will be Talarico. The boppish Thelonious Fiesta Lounge of the Student featured on Jerome Kern's ballad, Monk line "I Mean You" will be Center. "Yesterdays". Other soloists paired with the rockish Frank highlighted on the program will Zappa's "Waka Jawaka"'from the 
formal presentations: a personal plication forms by calling Barrett reading and a lecture. Further at 3578. information concerning the times Any sophomore interested in and locationsof these presentations working at the festival should call 
will b" released shortly. Barrett for further information. 
Although several other speakers activities," according to Barrett. may still be added to this year's These activities will include in­festival schedule, festival formal discussions around campus organizers are "hoping to limit and class appearances.participants to a select few and Professors desiring any of the engage them in a wider variety of scheduled speakers to appear in their classes can still obtain ap-

CLASSIFIED ADS 
FOR INFORMATION ABOUT GAY AWARENESS COM· Need ride to Erie PA (or Pitt· 
RIDES WANTED 
MUNITY, CALL 7789W·Th·F, a. 10 pm. · 

sburgh area) anytime after 4 pm on Thursday Feb. 21. Share expeoses and driving. Call Tom 
Before you buy a diamond learn at 6898. 
all the facts, it may save you a great deal. Call James 3118. Desperately need ride to New Jersey for break (March 8 or 9) 
A BETTER CHOICE IS LIFE share expenses. Call Tom 7852. 
FOR THE UNBORN CHILD. CONTACT BIRTHRIGHT, INC. Wanted: ride to Cleveland for 
IN SOUTH BEND, P.O. BOX Spring Break. Will share ex. 
824 OR CALL 289·1034. penses. Call 8337. Hot line crisis phone Need ride to Detroit or Ann Arbor 
Have a problem you'd like to Friday, Feb. 23. Pis call Dianne 
discuss anonymously (drugs, 5465. bad trip, family relations, suicide, contraception, 
Need ride to Philadelphia Friday, 
pregnancy, abortion, etc.)? Feb. 23. Urgent. Please call 
Call this number 282·2323. 233·3893, Larry. PRE·LAW SOCIETY Need ride to Davenport, Iowa 'or 
Informal rap with 15 former West on 1·80 Friday . Phil 8408. 
domers now at the Michigan, Chicago, Northwestern and Desperately need a ride to 
Notre Dame law schools. 2·4 Cleveland on Feb. 23rd. Call 
pm Sat.· Feb. 24th 2nd floor Marybeth 4391. 
La Fortune. Refreshments. Come. Need ride to Lauderdale, Hollywood or Miami. $$ (for 
ND STUDENTS AND FACULTY! spring break). Call Ken 3679. 
15 percent off on all shock and brake work at Rollin' Wheels Need ride to 'tOtOfado or New 
Sunoco (across from Green· Mexico for Spring break. Call 
wood's Shopping Center) for Steve, 1059. 
next 30 days. Call 272·9676 or stop in anytime! 

2 guys need ride de~erately to Miami, Fla. on fv\'A'fch 7. Call 
TYPING: PAPERS, DISSER· Pete 8810. Will share driving & 
TATIONS, THESIS. IM· expenses. 
MEDIATE DELIVERY. CALL 287·1222 AFTER 5. Need ride to N.J. for spring break Will share $and driving. Call 
OVERSEAS JOBS Summer or 6986. permanent. Australia, Europe, 
S. America, Africa, etc. All Ride wanted to Chicago Friday 
professions, $500·$1000 monthly, afternoon, Feb. 23. $hare ex. expenses paid, sightseeing. penses, call Frank 3110. Free info. Write TWR Co. Dept F2, 2550 Telegraph Ave., Need ride back from Chicago 
Berkeley, CA 94704. O'Hare for two on March 18. 3118, James. Child care workers . Immediate openings and other openings WANTED 
within the next several months for married couples without Interested in some good poker dependent children. To live in 
games? Call Larry 3245. four days . ott tour. days. Residential Treatment Wanted: Tennis partner, call 232· Program for emotional! y 0882. 
disturbed adolescents. Write to FORT WAYNE CHILDREN'S Wanted: piano player, part time, 
HOME, BOX 5038, Fri & Sat. evening. Dinner 
HAZE·LWOOD STATION, music. Apply in person. Down 
FORT WAYNE, INDIANA, Under Restaurant. 900 E. 
with resume. Must be at least Ireland Road. 
age 21. 

Ride the Cosmic Wave! needed for underpriveleged So. 
So. Carolina basketball tickets 
Vote Wesolowski·Angeluzzi Bend students. If you would like to contribute, call John 288·1001 
FOR SALE or Theresa 4437. Need a ride home this Spring? Or Have: 2 Hockey tickets for 
how 'bout a far out, exciting, Friday night, willing to swap tor 
modern, cool, m indblowing, 2 tickets for Saturday night. 
super, Go·See-America, Call Bob 7819. 
Bronson·like summer on a brand new, unused, 1973 Suzuki 500 motorcycle; For Sale, best 
LOST AND FOUND 

offer. Go via Hell's Angels and call Bill at 7827. Found: religious medal. Pope John & Saint Christopher. 
For sale: Honda 350 SL. Six Found in locker room of Rock 2· 
months old. Excellent con· 17. Call 8504. 
dition. $900. Call 272·5780 after 
5. 

Lost: Orange Bowl watch outside O'Shay call Goerge 8251. 
4th of July fireworks for sale. Send name & telephone number Lost: Black umbrella with brown 
to Box 685 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. ' 

11andle in South Dining Hall· West, Wednesday. Call 7077, reward. AKC Labrador pups. One male & one female. Call Jim Thean 283· Lost: 1 pair of brown glasses. 
6556, 9·5 . Call 6833. For Sale 1966 Dodge window Lost: gold SMC class ring, 73 
van! Call Rich after 5 pm. 288· initials BAB, call 4140. 
0266. 

FOR RENT NOTICES Rooms & kitchen. $40 mo. 233· Up to 26 acres of untouched 
1329. grassland in Park County, Col. Near skiing and Nat'l Forest 
PERSONAL Asking $350 acre. Wm Myers, 115 Western Ave. N., St. Paul 
Denny Smith ·please come home. Mn. 612·224·8301. 
The family 

Tuesday night interhall Hockey: TATIONS, TERM PAPERS. 
TYPING..THESIS, DISSER· 
The Grace Tower Gorillas 5 REASONABLE RATES.. Breen·Phillips ·Howard Islanders PROFESSIONAL LOOKING 
3. Next· Gorillas game on RESULTS. MRS. JORDAN·­
Sunday at 12:30 vs the Morissey 284·2956 BEFORE 4:30 or 288 
Marauders. Fans invited. 1277 AFTER 5:00. 

8 the observer Thursday, February 22, 1973 




West Va. hosts Digger's quintet 
University at the new 14,000 seat up against St. John's <away) and starting assignment has usually pearances in the Mountaineers'
by Lefty Ruschmann 

WVU Coliseum. Tipoff time is <home). But West Dave a 6-0
South Carolina to backcourt.
gone McCardle,
Heeling from the rough treat­slated for 8:00 pm. Virginia, despite a 9-11 record rreshman ballhandler who shoots
ment administered them by their which includes a current four­The Irish and Mountaineers have last two hosts, the Fighting Irish Tonight's encounter is important game losting streak, may prove to and scores sparingly. Junior nwt on five previous occasions, basketball team continues its four­to Notre Dame's hopes of finishing Harold Black (6-2), a second-line with Notre Dame winning four of
be another hard-to-beat club at 
game road series toni t in at or above the .500 level this guard, recently exploded for 21 them. Coach Phelps will be trying 
home. where their record stands at 
Morgantown, W. Va., a the Coach Digger 7-4. points against Syracuse. Rick to avenge the 97-87 loss suffered M ineers of contests Coles. a 6-3 sophomore, has also last year at the hands of WVU at 
Coach Phelps will again start his made occasional relief ap-the Convo. usual quintet of Shumate, Novak, Crotty. Brokaw and Clay, but the Irish. for once, will not be younger than their opponents. Starting this season. Mountaineer coach .:.·sonny" Moran was faced with a huge rebuilding task following the loss of seven lettermen, including 



OBSERVER 
four members of last year's starting five. But the arrival of four high-scoring rookies from last vear's ll-4 freshman squad, plus 
SPORTS 
ihe acquisition of several top-flight freshmen. have made the Moun­taineers a pleasant surprise to their fans this year. 
The West Virginia strength is 
Keenan, Holy Cross claim 
concentrated up front, with 6-7 rorward Warren Baker leading the way. Baker. a freshman who 

1-h semi-final cage wins 
earned high-school All-American b Cross, Bruno had 11, while Cor­
0 1
mention, is more often than not the Y eg Corgan nelius had 10 points and seven leading scorer and rebounder in Holy Cross and Keenan halls rebounds and Baranowski six WVU contests. He has averaged 17 advanced to the championship points and six rebounds. Pete points and 11 boards per outing, round of the Interhall basketball Farbatko was high scorer for the 
including season highs of 29 tallies tournament in similar fashion last losers with 10 points, Bob O'Brien against Lehigh and 19 rebounds night with respective victories had nine while Clark Keller scored against the Air Force in the over Off-Campus and Zahm. rive and pulled down nine Mountaineer Classic. Both clubs had difficulty in the rebounds. 
early-going but well-balanced of-keenan exploded for seven 
A fellow named Carr will also be fensive attacks and clutch defense consecutive field goals in the third on hand to torment the Irish front en a bled the winners to post stanza of its first game and broke line. Larry Carr, a burly (6-8, 250 comfortable wins. Holy Cross open a 16-16 deadlock to take a pounds) sophomore center, has hit outdistanced Off-Campus, 49-38, commanding 30-18 lead at the consistently to the tune of just while Keenan overcame Zahm 43-beginning of the final period of 
John Shumate will be leading the ND charge against West Virginia under 11 ppg, while gathering in 33. play. Zahm outscored Keenan in 
tonight. about seven rebounds on the Eight straightpoint at the end of the fourth quarter 15-13, but the average. In consecutive outings the fist half and six more in the winners' third period outburst was
Vic Dorr t=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:==================================:===========================;================================== against Lehigh and Villanova, opening . minutes of the third just too much to overcome. Carr took down 14 and 16 caroms quarter gave Holy Cross a 31-19 The first half had been a dif­respectively. lead which put that contest vir-rerent story as the initial period 
tually out of reach. Off-Campus ened with Keenan holding a slim 7­
That time of year · 
The third regular member of the staged a mild comeback in the Glead. Behing the shooting of Bob Mountaineers' forecourt is 6-5 l"ourth period, closing the gap to Trizna in the second stanza, Zahm sophomore Scott McDonald, the six, :~5-29 and shortly therafter, managed to tie the game at in­team's most accurate foul shooter seven. 43-36, but could manage termission. 14-14. They could (7(; pet. l and another one of Coach only two points the rest of the manage only one field goal andWere it not for his name, Mr. Dominick Napolitano, Notre Dame's 
Moran's double-figure scorers at night. four points in the third quarterdirector of Non-Varsity Athletics, could easily pass for a full-blooded 10.1 ppg. McDonald enjoyed his Throughout the initial period the however, when Keenan blew thngsIrishman. He's a small, middle-aged man with silver-white hair and a season high, 21 points, against game appeared as if it might be a wide open.
preference for white shirts and bow ties. And he speaks with particular Villanova midway through the close contest. Fred Baranowski Keenan's balanced attack wasvigor whenever the conversation turns to either of two topics-Notre Dame 
season. scored a lay-up on a fast break led by Pete Clemens with eightor boxing. 
with five seconds left to give HC a points. while Paul Clemen, MarkThis weekend, Napolitano-or "Nappy," as he is usually known-will be 
Sophomore Jerome Anderson, a 
12-11 first quarter lead. Shellenbarger, and John Goldenspeaking and acting with much more vigor than usual. For this weekend 
6-5 guard who has also been used 
But, behind the hot-shooting of each had six. Bob Trizna was high­marks the 42nd renewal of one of Notre Dame's oldest athletic traditions­
up fron. leads the Mountaineers in 
Dave Schroeter and Bedford point man for Zahm with 16 pointsthe annual Bengal Bouts. Nappy, who is the director of the Bengal Bouts 
field-goal accuracy and in assists, 
Bruno, and the rebounding of John and Jack Leicht had nine.
program and the closest thing to a coach that the ND.boxing club has, has 
and ranks as the second leading 
Cornelius Holy Cross opened up a The best-of-three championshipbeen tied to the Bouts since their debut at ND in 1931, and with each 
WVU scorer <12.5 ppg. l Three 
26-19 margin at the end of the first battle is scheduled for Friday,passing spring becomes more and more a part of Notre Dame's boxing 
other guards have seen substantial 
half and never headed. Sunday, and Tuesday, if needed, intradition. 
action this season, although the 
Schroeter had 12 points for Holy the ACC arena.
"I graduated from here in 1932~" said Nappy, as he recalled his first involvement wiht the Irish boxing program, "but I didn't originate the B£'ngals. That was the idea of a group of students who wanted to do 

Trackmen travel to W. Michigan
something for the Mission-(the Holy Cross Bengal Missio~ House.) O':'r first bouts, which were held in 1931,Were held as a one-mght smoker m Irish schedule year. run. the distance
on the this leads strong
The Notre Dame thinclads face
the boxing room of the old gym. . · Bronco coach Jack Shaw has performers. Half-miler Mike Fant
the very strong Western Michigan 
"So~ years after that we moved out onto the basketball court of the guided the team to the top of the had a top clocking of 1:51 last year.
Broncos Thursday night in
old gym and made a little arena there-it held about 4,500-and we stayed Mid-America Conference and to 10 WMU returns all but one member
Kalamazoo in the last dual meet of
there until we came to the Convo in '68." 
dual meet victories without a loss of the mile relay squad that beat
the indoor season. Coach Don
The early vears of the Bengals, particularly the post-war years, saw the last two years. One of those the Irish by 10. seconds last year.
Faley will also take the trackmen
capacity crowds become commonplace in the fieldhouse. boxing are~a. 
victories was a 71-60 decision over
to the United States Track and Faley has also put together aMany of the competing students were veterans who.had p1ck~ up boxmg the Irish in the ND fieldhouse last
Pxperience in the service, and , as an added attraction, Napohtano made Field Federation's open meet in l'ouple of fine relay squads. The
winter. 
a practice of invitingthefNorld's champions in each division to appear on Ann Arbor. Mich. Friday. two-mile team earned a fourth the ND campus. "We had people like Marciano, Barney Ross, and Conn The Western Michigan club is All-America Gary Harris, place at the Central Collegiates 
one of the most powerful opponents runner-up in the NCAA two-mile last weekend with a time of 7:52.
here then," said Nappy. "Italways added something to our show." The Bengal Bout "show" has changed substantially since then. This 
Don Creehan had his best effort of the season to start the relay.
weekend's fights will be held jllot in the dusty, smoky setting of the old Freshman Jim Hurt anchored thefieldhouse, but plush north dome of the ACC. There won't be a Foreman, distance medley squad with a 4: 12a J:<'razier.an Ali in evidence. But Dominick Napolitano will be there, and mile while Don Opal ran a :49 inhis presence will be enough to 1guarantee three nights of quality the quarter-mile leg. 
boxingi . "It's beenthekids," he said, "the kids have kept me mvolved so long. 
Faley was "vety pleased with' It's a meaningful experience for them -I know it is. This isn't a sport some of the times in the meet.
~ 
that's supposed to be dirty or brutal, and it won't be-not if it's conducted Each week a progression is noted-­the right way. We try to stress Olympic-style boxinghere, boxing that's 
sometimes with one person,
all stand-up. We stress a contest of skill, not brute strength, and sometimes with more. But, it is
r 
knockouts are not the things we seek.
I 
this mental 1oughness which can 
"What we want to do is to get those kids working, to get them in terriffic mean the difference between a shape. to give them skills and protective equipment-and that includes a sixth and third-place finish."
I 
i 
good, heavy mat-and then set them in the ring for three rounds." But Nappy does more than just set a boxer "in the ring for three Western Michigan's strength rounds. "~le sets up each of the brackets himself, and tries to pair each of remains in the field events, 
an 
I 
the boxers with a close match in ability, height, and weight. Irish weakness. Two 15-0 pole And in this vear's 1bouts, which begin Sunday and continue on Tues~ay \'aulters and three 6-7 high jum­
and Thursday, Napolitano has arranged some potential matchups .which pers highlight an impressive list of will prove to be more than fair-\they should prove to be sensatiOnal: 
Bronco performers. Among them are a semi-final tilt between Roland Chamblee ( who IS 
Notre Dame captain Tom 
gunning for his fourth championship in as many years) and Denny Clark McMannon, who placed second in a <last year's titlest in the 175lpound division), and a possible final round disputed finish at the CCC, will be confrontation between two-time 11351 pound winner Pat McGrath and matched against WM's sophomore 
' ~ 
defending 125 pound champion· Larry Semerad. 
Jeff Parks and Homer Gaines,The boxing "show" that Nappy will be unveiling Sunday afternoon may winner of the MAC crown. Parks,I not bear great resemblence to those of years past, but this year's Bengals ranked fifth among the nation'sI should be some of the best athletic entertainment that .$1.50 k:an buy. 
prep hurdlers, is also an excellentI DominickNapolitano has seen to that. 
long jumper. 
I I 
~ 




