
Oa The Inside 

serving the notre dame -st. mary's community Thursday, October 11, 1973
Vol. VIII, No. 27 
Agnew quits as VP 
by Eugene V. Risher 

WASHINGTON <UPI>-Spiro T. Agnew resigned as vice-president of the United States "in the best in­terests of the nation" Wednesday, and pleaded no contest in federal court in Baltimore to a single count of income tax evasion in 1967. Agnew was the second vice president in history to resign and the first to do so under duress. 
President Nixon, expressing "a great sense of personal loss," said he would begin I,>~ompt C?n­sultations with national leaders of both political parttes on nominating a new vice president, who must be confirmed by a majority vote of the House and Senate. 
U.S. District Judge Walter. E. Hoffman, accepting the result of two days of secret plea bargaining between Agnew and Attorney General Elliot L. Richardson, fined Agnew $10;000 and placed him on three years 
probation. . 
At Richardson's urging, Hoffman satd he was for­saking his usual practice o( sentencing lawyers, tax accountants or business executives to prison terms of two to five months in income tax cases. 
In his letter to Nixon, Agnew said, "I have concluded that, painful as it is to me and my faJ?ilY! it is in ~he best interests of the nation that I rehnqmsh the vtce presidency."
Richardson appealed to Hoffman to keep Agnew out 

of prison "out of compassion for the man, out of respect for the office he has ~eld ~nd ?ut of ap­preciation of the fact that by hts restgnabon he has spared the nation the prolonged agony that would have attended upon his trial.'' 
The two-month ordeal that began for Agnew when he learned in early August he was under federal .in­vestigation for possible violation tax, bribery, ex­tortion and conspiracy laws ended at 2:05 p.m. EDT when he entered courtroom No. 3 on the fifth floor of the federal courthouse in downtown Baltimore with a Secret Service agent on each arm. . 
He and Richardson, who was accompamed by Assistant Attorney General Henry E. Petersen, chief of the Justice Department's criminal division, told Hoffman of the plea agreement under which Agnew would resign and plead no to contendere (no contest) to a lesser charge.
Hoffman reminded Agnew at least twice that such a plea "is the ful~ equivalen.t ?f a ple~ of guilty," although it contams no admtsston of guilt. 
Richardson said evidence obtained from several former Agnew associates in Maryla~? "established. a pattern of substantial cash payments to Agnew while he was governor of Maryland--payments which h~ said Agnew received as late as December, 1972, whde he was vice president. 


El(-VP Agnew: sentenced to three year probation and $10,000 fine 
The attorney general said the government was ready to press forward with the return of a grand jury in­dictment charging bribery against Agnew, but "to have done so... would have been likely to inflict upon the nation serious and permanent scars." 
At the exact moment the hearing began in Baltimore, Agnew's resignation became effective legally at 2:05 p.m. EDT when a 14-word letter of resignation was delivered to Secretary of State Henry 
A. Kissinger. It read: 
Dear Mr. Secretary: I hereby resign the office of Vice President of the United States. effective immediately. 
Sincerely, Spiro T. Agnew." 

One minute later, a copy of that letter, along with a three-paragraph covering letter, was given to Alexander M. Haig, the White House chief of staff, and forwarded immediately to the President. 
Agnew's letter to Nixon said. "the accusations against me cannot be resolved without a long, divisive 
and  debilitating struggle  in  the  Congress  a~ the  
courts."  
The White  House said Agnew  told  Nixon  of his  

decision during a 4o-minute meeting starting at 6p.m. Tuesday night in the President's Oval Office. 
In his letter of reply, the President praised Agnew's "candor and courage ... your strong patriotism and your profound dedication to the welfare of the nation." 
But he said he respected Agnew's "concern for the national interest that led you .to conclude that a resolution of the matter in this way, rather than through an extended battle in the courts and Congress, was advisable in order to prevent a protracted period of national division and uncertainty." 
It was the first time a U.S. vice-president had resigned in 140 years, since John C. Calhoun quit on December 28, 1832-three months before expiration of his term--to fill a Senate seat to which he had been elected. 
The United States was last without a sitting vice­president between Nov. 22, 1963, when Lyndon B. Johnson succeeded the slain President John F. Ken­nedy, until Jan. 20, 1965, when Johnson won election as President with Sen. Hubert H. Humphrey as his vice president. 
The news of Agnew's resignation stunned and sur­prised members of Congress, even the House and Senate Republican leadership, and raised the possibility of a bitter political struggle over Nixon's choice of successor. 
As soon as he received a letter from Agnew in­forming him of the decision, Senate Democratic Leader Mike Mansfield called a meeting of the Senate leadership of both parties and ranking members of the Senate Judiciary and Rules Committees to consider ers of the Sena'.e Judiciary and Rules Committees he nomination. 
Among those mentioned in speculation as the most obvious candidates for election were former Treasury Secretary John B. Connally, the former Democratic governor of Texas who became a Republican last spring; Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller of New York; Sen. Henry M. Jackson, D-Wash.; Treasury Secretary George P. Shultz and possibly Richardson. 
During the 35-minute court hearing in Baltimore, which Hoffman called "this tragic event in history," the judge said the Justice Deparbnent would halt its case against Agnew under the negotiated plea agreement. 
But Hoffman told Agnew this did not mean his name would not be mentioned in other judicial proceedings. 
The specific charge to which Agnew, in effect, pleaded guilty, was evasion of federal income taxes totallying $13,551 in 1967. 
U.S. Attorney George Beall, who has been heading the Agnew investigation as part of a 10-month grand jury inquiry into alleged political graft in Maryland, said Agnew--then governor of the state-and his wife claimed taxable income that year of $26,099 with $6,416 in total tax due. 
Actually, said Beall, their taxable income totaled $55,599, on which tax due was $19,967. 


Hesburgh OK's liquor guidelines 
by John McEachin Staff Reporter Announcing Fr. Hesburgh 's acceptance of new drinking guidelines, the Student Life Council ended its longest meeting in history yesterday. Council Chairman, Professor Fred Syburg, read a brief letter from the University President indicating his approval of the newly revised rule number seven on page Z'l of the Student Manual. The Council has passed detailed guidelines for implementation of  halls, he recommended immediate implementation of the rules. The Council agreed unanimously, and the guidelines will be in effect this weekend. Concern was voiced that students might not yet understand all the new provisions, and con­seq\Jii'ntly parties this weekend might no t be in accordance with them. The new rule reads in part: challenge one another to find more reative ways of socializing. When people come together, the use of alcohol must always be secondary to their personal interaction." Dr. Robert Ackerman noted that  guidelines and answer any questions they may have. The Council agreed that this would be the best course of action. Final revisions to the Student Manual were then adopted unanimously as the meeting in the basement of Flanner Hall drew to a close. The revisions dealt with disciplinary procedures described on pages 32, 33 and 34 of the current Manual. Among the important changes was creation of a University . Board to hear cases of rule violations. The revisions now go to Fr. H;esburgh for his approval.  and has continued with two sessions per week to facilitate revision of the Student Manual. Dr. Faccenda complimented the members of the SLC for speedy adoption of the new Student Manual. It will be some time before new Manuals can be printed, but the most urgent changes, concerning use of alcohol are now available to the students Other revisions will be published as soon as possible upon accep­tance by the University President. One new member was presented to the Council. She is Patricia Leonard, who replaces William  Corda as Law School represen­tative. The res~gnation of Maureen Lathers, representative for Far I e y, Breen-Phillips,. Cavanaugh, and St. Edward's Halls, was announced ..Student Body President Dennis Etienne said that the Board of Commissioners will discuss the matter of her replacement at their meeting Monday night. The SLC will take up Monday the long-delayed subject of organizational procedures and resume its practice of bi-weekly meetings.  
the rule with a special emphasis on planning. <Complete text of the  this concept requires students to respond to parties in a different  The Chairman announced with a smile that, the new Manual now  
rule and guidelines governing use of alcohol on campus may be found in Friday's Observer.) lJr. Phtlllp Jraccenda pointed out that many halls have already made extensive plans for parties this weekend and in the interest of  way than the previous rule, and it would take time to get this idea across. In response, Jude Bremer of District 5 suggested that the student representatives meet with the hall staffs in their respective  complete, the SLC could restime normal procedure. Sine~ early September, the Council has been meeting twice weekly under suspensionof procedural rules. Technically, the meeting which ended yesterday was the same one  Nixon letter to Agnew ...see page 3  
not penalizing these well-prepared  districts  to  explain  the  new  which  began  several  weeks  ago  



., , i ·' • . ••.
•. '· '.,..' , ':, ..... ,:·. . ·, .... 
l~·------~t~h~e~o~b~s~er~v~e~r--·_.~_·_·_·_·T_h_ur_s_d•_v_;_Oc__,~__r_t_t_,_"_73_ 
warld 
briefs 

TEL AVIV--Prime Minister Golda Meir said Israeli forces have driven Syrians out of the Golan Heights region and are pushing back Egyptians from their front five miles east of the Suez Canal. 
CAIRO--Egypt sia dits troops drove an Israeli ar­mored unit into retre~Jt in the Sinai, captuirng 12 Americna built tanks, three armored cars and a number of tank crews. Egyptian troops are "modigying" their front line nine miles east of the Suez Canal, the command said. 
Charlotte, N.C.--8enator Same Ervin, Jr., D;N.C., chairman of the Senate Watergate Committee, has made a recording that is to be released sometime between Nov. 1 and Christmas. 
The Columbia album was recorded at Ervin's Morganton home and features the senator telling, stories about various subjects, including family recollections, moonshiners, court cases, and quoting the Bible and poetry. 
. ­

an campus taday 
4:30 p.m.--nieuwland lecture, "to depend on plants" bu thomas eisner, room 278 galvin life science bldg. 6, 8, 10 p.m.--film, "fritz the cat'', admission Sl.OO, engineering aud. 
7 p.m.--lecture, "the new novel: an International approach" series, stapleton lounge, lemans hall 
7:15 p.m.--colloquium, mock collective bargaining session sponsored by management dept., library 
7:30aud. p.m.--lecture, "modern education--bearty or brains?", carr"ol hall, madeleva memorial
8:30 p.m.--drama, richard the third, o'laughlln aud., $1.50 for students. faculty and staff 



RESEARCH 
Thousands of Topics 
$2.75 per page 
Send for your up-to-date, 160-page, 
mail order catalog. Enclose $1.00 
to cover postage (delivery time is 
1 to 2 days). 
RESEARCH ASSISTANCE, INC. 
11941 WILSHIRE BLVD., SUITE :tt2 
LOS ANGELES. CALIF. 90025 
(213) 477-8474 or 477-5493 
Our research material is sold for research assistance only. 
The Observer is publiShed dally during the college semester except vacations by the s'udents of the University of Notre Dame and Sf. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester l$14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class 
postage pai~; ,NQ!r.e, Paille. Jnc$.: . 

Israeli tanks launch raid into Egyptian 
territory 
By United Press International 
Israeli tanks launched a lighting raid across the Suez Canal into Egyptian territory today and pushed across the Golan Heights {or twin thrusts into Syria, military spokes.men in Tel Aviv reported. , 
The spokesmen said the Israeli tank teams pushed across the canal in the southern sector, striking at Egyptian convoys in the rear areas of the west bank. 
Israeli said the armored units pulled, back into the Israeli­occupied Sinai desert after the raid. There was no report on how the Israelis crossed the 150-yard-wide waterway. 
The Israeli command said its naval.units bombarded Syrian petroleum installations at Ba­nyas, Tartus and Latakia along the Mediterranean coast. Thz command repprted large fires at the facilities. • 
Officials in Darrlascus said the Israeli warships shelled "civilian targets" at Burj Islam, Latakia and the Banias oil terminal. They said the Israeli shells sank a Greek merchant vessel at the port of Bani as. 
The Syrian command said its 
naval units clashed with the Israelis. "Three enemy gun­boats were sank and the rest withdrew," the command said. 

Military sources in Tel Aviv said Israeli armored columns launched two thrusts Wednes­day into Syria from the Golan Heights, pushing three to' four miles 'inside Arab territory. The sourc_es said the tanks pulled back to the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights at dusk. 
• ANV 6 CYL . U. S. ~ AU,-0 : : ADO $4 FOR 8 CYL CARS. , 1 AIR COr.lD. CARS ~z MORE.: : INCLUDES PLUGS, POINTS •' : CONDENSER. CHECK : 
Premium 4 Ply 
• CHOKE, Tl ME ENGINE, 
: BALANCE CARBURETOR 1

Nylon 
··············--········of 
.... u '''fJJ_'''·"'d·l#j.' 
WITH COUPON 
w


Snow Ti·res 
starts as low as $ ~ FROIITEIID!l
1695 Ali&IIEIT . . Plus F.E.T. MOST ..._.
AMERICAN 
t;ARS ­
F78-14 Blackwalls 
PARTS EXTRA 
' IF' NEEDED



20% off 
~---··-·················
:·.. "d·''"li1*5·11'A·' ,,•• ~ 
• WITH COUPON : 
on all tail l BRAKE RELIJIIJIG :
. . 
: EXCEPT DISC : 
• ~BRAKES AND 
~ , _ F'OREIGN CARS
pipes,exhaust 
~~a $2995
pipes and 
. 
1 INCLUDES FULL INSPECT ION, . FLUID AND CLEAN.

mufflers 
,~: :·~!. ..··~~·~~--R .....::•
f:Jif, 1__3. ua• : 
WITH COUPON-~ ., :
Discount Tire 
SHOCK 




;})1j
Service 
SALE ~ fl :

50595 U.S. 31 North .. 
. 
272-1023 $444 
·· ·· r.~p·EN'.. wAt' v ·, 
PLUS IISTILUTIOI
6' 

w I ......  ND  reservations 284-4176  
SMC  Student -Faculty ND~MC Staff  
TH EA.T R E  $1.50  
_  SEASON 1973-74  



Richard III 
Shakespeare's b,old history Oct. 9, 10, 11, 11, 13 at 8:30pm 0' Laughlin Auditorium (St. Mary's) 
Investigate Upper Division and Graduate Study in Monterey .. , 130 M•lc) South of SJn Fr-1nt.~sco 
Monterey Institute of Foreign Studies 
A pro;,lte lobera! .trt~ c.-i!pge 9'·"'';,,,_. ·. /'-., .'-All., Teuchong CredcntoJis, Ccrt.f,c,,:e •n Tr.Jn"-ldt•·Yn ~lf''hi !n!'err:.~etat•nn 
Langu•ges and
EducatiOn CivilixationsH•story 

A~.Jb1•.•
International Ec.:onom1u 
': h.nese
ttnd Management 
Frt~nch 
Political Scie~c~-­
J""-7-'· ..,.~--. ·­
f..:,erm,j;, 
World Area Studies ·;,,..,, ...'\\ \'\'·' :tJ:,iJn• Translation and '· ' (. \ " J.ip,lr~et.e Interpretation j:...,.!IU.;.Jl,;C5C" 
R•.1t~ilin 
ft'·J:.C rc..JttC(J b\ • ''=" \'.;c~tern A..:..s-:.:~&1!\('n of Schoots Sp:lnir..h ~1n~.~ C ::.liege~. (ald-:-r;·,,.J State Bv.1:-:1 0f EJuc.Jtton "5umrle• ~)n . Vi'tcr,ln~ Appro"Cd 
George Williams, Dean of Admissions will be at St. Mary's College, Oct. 15,9-12 and at' Notre Dame, Oct. 16,8:30-5. Interested students should check with the Directors of 
Pl;ocement 
:··i'l:'''f.!!'''''I'R''i···~

Snow Recaps 
• WITH COUPON : 
: FULL EII&IIIE TUllE-UP :


$2495 
560-15 

l~·!s.~!s2o9sl
.~..
Plus F.E.T. 
: .. ~ :
. . 


Sign up for the Senior Trip *NOW* 
$2 5 Deposits .due. FrL Oct..12 · 
-'-'-'(t'r'dve f 'bi.ireau)tali'233~9'SSS. . ... '\:I S~~-·,~I,LLT:LL
46556. 
~----~--~~~--------------------~ 
~~--~-----------­
Thursday, October 11, 1973 the observer 
Resignation accepted by Nixon 
WASHINGTON <UPI> -Text of a letter by President Nixon to Spiro T. Agnew accepting his resignation as vice president. 
"Dear Ted: 
"The most difficult decisions are often those that are the most personal, and I know your decision to resign as vice president has been as difficult as any facing a man in public life could be. 
"Your departure from the administration leaves me with a great sense of personal loss. You have been a valued associate through these nearly five years that we have served together. 
"However, I respect your decision and I also respect the concern for the national inter­est that led you to conclude that a resolution of the matter in this way, rather than through an extended battle in the courts and Congress, was advisable in order to prevent a protracted period of national division and uncertainty. 
"As vice president, you have addressed the great issues of our times with courage and candor. Your strong patriotism, and your profound dedication to the welfare of the nation, have been an inspiration to all who have served with you as well as to millions of others throughout the country. 

"I have been deeply saddened by this whole course of events, and I hope that you and your family will be sustained in the days ahead by. a well-justified pride in all that you have contributed to the nation by your years of service as Vice President. 
"Sincerely, Richard Nixon." 





Work-study alternatives set 
by Howard Wood Staff Reporter 
Cassell A. Lawson, director of off-campus student activities and minority affairs, has announced an educational alternative for seven undergraduate work-stu'dy students. This program, Paraprofessional Student Development Training, trains these undergraduates as paraprofessional counselors working with the Counsling Center. 
"The program endeavors to combine both content and ex­perimental learning, which will focus on the development of per­
sonal  and  interpersonal  com­ 
petencies  within  the  
paraprofessionals  and  their  
peers," stated Lawson.  

The paraprofessionals are ·five undergraduate students and two graduate level · students par­ticipating in this training. They are learning the basic skills and training to develop interpersonal confidence and to function better in the environment. 
Three students, Richard Dickenson, Billy Banner, and AI Mendez are assigned to the Minority Counseling Center located in the basement of Amazin' Mets win pennant 
The New York Mets won their second National League pennant in five years Wednesday by defeating the Cincinnati Reds 7-2 to capture the best of-five playoff 3 games to 2. 
The American League series between the defending world champion Oakland A's and the Baltimore Orioles was tied at two games apeice when the Orioles rallied from a four-run deficit to win Wednesday's game 5-4. The deciding game will be played Thursday at Oakland. · 
South Bend Public Library 
SURPLUS GIFT BOOK SALE 
Main Library Garage 122 West Wayne St. 
SATURDAY 
October 13 
9:00 am • 5:00 pm 25• pe.r book 
..... " ... 
LaFortune Student Center. Craig Crawford and Lionel Phillips are assigned to the Black Cultural Art Center on the third floor of LaFortune. These paraprofessionals work twelve 

hours  a  week  and  get  no  ac­ 
credida tion.  
Craig  Adams  and  Sharon  

Browner, the two graduate students, will function as liason personnel from the university's counseling center and also, as the master guidance to provide professional therapy of needed. 

The goal of the program is to facilitate student transition to the college experience through student paraprofessional counselors. Lawson hopes that the "program will increase student self-
awareness and self direction, thus 
enhancing the possibility that they 
will through their own initiative, 
seek out alternatives and achieve a 
more rapid adjustment to the 
University environment." 
This program's responsibility is 
to all students and particularly 
freshmen who might confront 
emotional or social problems. 
Lawson pointed out that the 
program serves as an example to 
the University that .un­
dergraduates can take an active 
and meaningful part in academic 
affairs. 
The Paraprofessional Student Development Training is in its first 
year of activity and is an extension 
of the Counseling Center. The two 
will coordinate and work together. 






Hans Haus 
2803 South Michigan Street -Phone 291-5522 
German Foqd Our Specialty 
Created with Old World Atmosphere. Specializing in German and American Foods. 
• So1Jth Bend's Finest Banquet Rooms 
The Alpine & Bavarian Rooms Open lfl:30 a.m. to 10:30 p.m.-Closed Sundays and Holidays 
Settle down 



to the 
natural·one. Busch: 
Especially after the game (or before) 
TONIGHT! 
NO's 
* PETE SNAKE* Live at LOUIE'S BAR 
744 N. NOTRE DAME 


FL.IDJ\Y NWl SATULDAV 


r­
·( 
'l 
'I 
., \. ~ 
I, 


THE -OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Art Ferranti Executive Editor 
Lee Gentine Business Manager 

Jerry Lutkus Editor-in-Chief 
NEWS: 283-1715 EDITORIALS: 283-8661 BUSINESS: 2'83-7471 
Thursday, October 11, 1973 
Resignati'on of Trust 
l 
For only the second time in the history of the United States, and for the first time in well over 100 years, the Vice President of this country has resigned his office. 
And because of the deeds that promp: ted that resignation, Spiro Agnew has furthered the current trend of rapidly 
dec;:lining faith in the men trusted by the l people of this country to serve our best interests. ~ For the better part of 1973, the Nixon administration has been involved with charges stemming from the break-in at the Democratic National Headquarters and subsequent coverup of the Watergate affair. Allocations of high level in­
r volvement in the scandal has led to the resignations of some of the President's closest associates. With each succeeding accusation, both factual and merely hearsay, a cloud of distrust has grown more dense over the White House and its occupants. And yesterday, the second highest elected official in the United States resigned following his plea of "nolo contendere" to charges of income tax evasion. Despite reactions to Mr. Agnew's resignation that ranged from those whose long-time impressions were finally confirmed to those who swear the man is a scapegoat for the President, the fact remains that the Nixon Administration continues to be ravaged by criminal investigations and actual convictions. 
The doubts are indeed starting to be confirmed. 
The sobering question resulting from the oast year of Grand Jury in­vestigations and Senate Hearings is how long this government, which is of the people, can operate without the.trust of those people. The present Ad­ministration has done very little to develop that trust. 
And with every passing indictment and conviction, the Administration's task becomes that much more difficult. But outcome of the remaining Nixon years in the White House depends integrally upon some restoration of confidence on the part of Americans for the men in their government. 
Mr. Agnew leaves his post in Washington and returns to Maryland a disgraced and sad figure. His claims of innocence ring much emptier now. As his figure becomes less familiar in the daily news, he will simply fade into the in­creasing number of Nixon officials who have contributed to this crisis. 
As Senator Ervin pointed out at the start of the Senate Watergate in­vestigations, the bright spot about the past year of criminal allegations is that the American government at least offers us the chance to clean up our own government. It is indeed unfortunate that we have had to utilize that unique facet of our democracy to such a great extent in such a short amount of time. 
This entire scandal is clear in its im­plications about the future of American government. Though it must remain a government of the people, a government whose officials are elected from among the people, those elected officials must somehow rise above the shortcomings of the populace they serve. 
Leaders have to do that. Unless they prefer the complete lack of respect now being experienced by the Nixon Ad­ministration, they must do that. 
They must rise above. 
Butch Ward 

...and again, Regina 
Who needs another election? Ap­parently Regina Hall does if it is to have a vice president, and it looks like the electionscommitteewillhaveitswillasa fourth ballot is today forced on a reluc­tant electorate. 
Regina Hall has, to my knowledge, continued to function rather well this year despite its lack of vice presidential guidance; and there are no indications that it will not continue to do so if today's vote still fails to yield a winner. Ms. 
, t t' d h d
Kempsen s cons erna ton an er a · monition that students sh~o.;;.;.;ld;;.....;.;t:;;.;.;.;;;;......;..;.;.;:;.. 
Dan BarreH Executive Editor 
John Kloos Advertising Manager 
situation "more seriously" approaches a much ado about nothing absurdity. If the electorate has indicated that it doesn't give a rip--which past results confirm --then let's put a stop to this foolishness. If student government 
cannot bear to let the position go unfilled, they should appoint someone. But ob­viously the students couldn't care less, and if student government is truly representative, then they ~shouldn't either. 
Maria Gallagher 

80Y. AM ~ OH, NO ... I'M NOT 
J 

HfX(I /JO? 1 GlAO 10 ~ LOOKING FOR YOIJ. -":~ li.IHO !!£~ YOfJ/ MY <ij I'M /NVOLV£0 IN 3' 
SORRY. AR£ NAM£'S HIKE ~ A Llf£ OR. PEATH 
H<PE 1H£Y
• H6tW?! y()(J? OOONE58tJR.Y SEARCH FOR A f/NP Y0tJ. \ ANCJ.. ' NINt-YtAR-OLP 
I

~/ I 80Y! 

__, r----------., r-----------. 
P.O. Bex Q 
he gave up a whole afternoon to demonstrate for the rights of our oppressed farmworkers. Hardly a week goes by that he does not stand up for the people in his sermon­and not just the middle class either! 
Even though McCarthyism is evil, we must still love and help these people, no matter how terribly wrong they are. And that is all Father Toohey is trying to do­·his Christian.duty. And if Mr. Matthewson does not understand this, he doesn't understand Christianity. As Father Toohey said in hissermonjust yesterday, if you don't like his message, Don't blame him, blame God. 
Peace, Mary Ellen Gallagher 

Chess Defense 

Dear Sirs: 
The other day you published a letter complaining about the of­ficiating at the recently held Ob­server-Chess Club Chess Tour­nament. We the undersigned believe that the allegations made by Mr. Caminite in that letter are totally false. 
That tournament was the second largest of its type ever held at Notre Dame. There were 40 players involved and only Mr. Caminite saw fit to complain about the officiating. The other players were complaining about the con­tinual disruptions caused Mr. Caminite. These disruptions were of such magnitude that the tour­nament, madirector was forced to withdraw Mr. Caminite from the tournament, make him forfeit his last game, and refund his money while asking to leave. Mr. Caminite continued his use of abusive language and display of unsportsmanlike conduct, but was soon persuaded to leave. Mter his departure all returned to normalcy and· the tournament was com­pleted. 
We hope that this letter ends any and all discussion on the subject of Mr. Caminite's letter, 
Sincerely, 
Frank T. Pilotte 
Steven F. Osborne 
Jerry M. Mondello 
L.M. Hannak 
Chris Kohlmiller Joseph S. Webster 


Flunk The Band 
Dear Editor: 
Thanks to the kind help of the university band I managed to flunk a rather insignificant test (4o percent of the course grade) tonight. While trying to take a test in the engineering building in the whereabouts of 7 p.m., I, as well as all the other students, failed to be able to concentrate due to the sporadic tunes of the band prac­ticing during the test. 
I would like to bring it to the attention of those involved in the organization of the band, that if they keep up the help, they will slowly loose the little respect that they have of the student body. Surely they can practice in the afternoon, when little studying is going on. Or, they could also find other premises to practice their sound throwing other than so close to buidlings where tests and studying is going on. 
I, as well as the other students taking this test feel that this action, which has been complained of before, is unneccessary, and shows very little respect on the part of the band for the students who in effect support the band. 
I strongly suggest they do something about the situation, or 
instead of there will flying...  oranges be eggs  at and  half-time, lemons  
Pissed,  

Tim Trixler 

Love The Sinner 
Dear Editor, 
I was deeply troubled by the letter, No Censors, Please, October 4, by DavidS. Matthewson. I can not understand why no one else has come to Father Toohey's defense 
against these charges. It's just not true that Father Toohey supports McCarthyism. Actually he deploresitandspokeoutagainstit when it was unpopular. But that does not mean that he has 
forgotten that it isour Christian 
duty to hate the sin while still loving the sinner. And Father Toohey loves everybody. He has demonstrated his genuine concern for the people by marching in picket lines· in front of hostile 
crowds whenever human rights
have been at·stake. Just r~ently 

daanesbury raarry trudeau 
the observer 
Nite Editor: Albe-1 DAntonio Assn't N ite Editor: Rick Blower Layout Artist: Ayn Moriarty Copy Reader: Te-ry Keenan Day Editor: , Jack Kellv 
Typists: Barb, John Flanagan, Steve Roper, ;rom Modglin, Howie Halle Compug raphic: Mike Goetz Nite Controller: Phil Orschetn 
Lead gu Ita rist and vocalist: w. s. Nichols 
V.I.P.: Christ 

Thursday, October 11, 1973 



oktoberfest • • • 
Trink, trink, Bruderlein trink, lass doch die Sorgen zu Haus! Trink, trink, Bruderlein trink, zieh deine Stirn nicht kraus. 
Strains of German musik along with Bavarian bier provide two of the main ingredients for any Oktoberfest celebration. 
Germans boast in their song: In Munchen steht ein Hofbrauhaus. ("InMunich There is a Beer Hall.") 
Now Michiana too can boast of a "beer hall" atmosphere complete with Lowenbrau bier and German musik (by Lloyd's Ger­man Band of Elkhart, Indiana.) The scene of the Oktoberfest celebration: where else, but upon the site of old Kamm and Schellinger Brewing Company, now the 100 Center Complex on Lincolnway Avenue in Mishawaka, Indiana. 
The origin of Oktoberfest extends back to 1810 in the limd of Bavaria. Crown Prince Ludwig was to marry Princess Theresa of Saxonia, and a special celebration was 
J00 center style 
planned for· the people. After the wedding ceremony, horse races and festivities took place at a large meadow, with music, food and drink provided for all. 
The meadow was renamed Theresien-Wiese and made the site of an annual har­vest festival in memory of the wedding day. It later became a custom for peasants for merchants to bring fruit, produce and handiwork to sell, with music and amusements also provided. The festivities grew into what is called the Munchen 
Oktoberfest, a seventeen day celebration . manner. Food will be served from a con-
from the end of September through part of October, and one of the largest fairs in 
~urope. 
bier and bratwurst 

Bill Strong, the general manager of 100 Center Complex, explained the plans for Oktoberfest, to be held Friday and Satur­day, October 12 and 13. "Beer and food are the key to the whole event." Strong added cession which is built like a Bavarian chalet, with the menu featuring Nuernberger bratwurst, wieners, Polish sausage and smoked sausage (free sauerkraut provided on sandwiches.) The "Bavarian chalet" concessions stand will be located in the main courtyard of the complex, along with the musik of Lloyd's German Band. 
Beer concessions will be located in the Io-:ver level of the Stable building, closest thmg to a Hofbrauhaus, with accomodating t~bles and chairs. Strong cheerfully divulged that "50 kegs of Lowenbrau beer will be on hand." 
The festival concept at the 100 Center Complex is not a new one, since the Brewery has already witnessed two Arts and Crafts Festivals, the last one in July drawing approximately 15,000 people. In choosing to stage an Oktoberfest, Strong explained, "The management of 100 Center and some 
of the merchants suggested an Oktoberfest, since we are situated in the old Brewery. The concept <Oktoberfest) seemed to tie in well with the nature of the project (100Center)." · 
Strong envisions the Oktoberfest and the Brewery as a "fun place" and a leisurely that all shops are participating in some way by decorating or wearing costumes. The Oktoberfest activities run from 4 p.m. till midnight Friday and 11 a.m. till midnight Saturday. Most of the shops agreed, ac­cording to Strong, to stay open until ten or eleven o'clock in the evening, depending on the traffic in the complex. 
As part of the Oktoberfest, the 100 Center Complex has contacted Wiesel's Sausage Company of Wisconsin to provide the food services in a nearly authentic German 
mike kulczycki 

type of center, where people could "literally spend a whole day." A free parking and free admission policy for the Oktoberfest, ac­cording to Strong, is another way of in­dicating to the people of Michiana, 100 • Center's inviation to just come to the Oktoberfest and "participate in anything." 
. beer barrels and iceboxes 
Commenting on the nature of the 100 Center Complex, which was "situated within the original buildings of the old Kamm's Brewery," Strong also added that though the Center was just starting to pull together, it was being recognized by the community as a valuable project. Strong admitted he was "extremely satisfied with the community support." 
In pointing out the unique atmosphe'"e of the Brewery complex, Strong explained the sources of some of the building materii:ils. Approximately 50,000 paving bricks originally from South Bend streets wer~ evident in the main couryard, along with railroad ties and 35 streetlights, formerly from Miami Avenue in South Bend. Old beer barrels, which were made by coopers at the Kamm and Schellinger Brewery, pop 
· up as fixtures and plant holders. Even the new Ice House restaurant exhibits the use of beer barrellighr fixtures, old iceboxes used as waitress stations, and other artifacts from the old brewery. 
Remember the words of the German drinking song on the way to the Oktoberfest celebration: 
Drink, drink, little brother, drink, Leave all your cares at home! Drink, drink, little brother, drink, Don't frown. 

Thursday, October 11, 1973
the observer
6 




MarijUana laws tested 
by David E. Anderson harm to the lives and •causingof the private possession of pornographic 
) 
. 
approximately 250,000 young materials, all of which reaffirm WASHINGTON WPH-~dvocates peoplewhoare arrested eachyear the individual's basic right of of marijuana law reformance in this country," Clark said. privacy, said R. Keith Stroup, seeking to test in court the con­He said the nation should director of the organization. stitutionality of the nation's pot "discourage the use of marijuana "While no drug, including smoking laws. as we should the use of all aspirin and over-the-counter 
Ramsey Clark, former U.S. recreational drugs, including preparations, is totally harmess," attorney general representing the alcohol and tobacco. But arresting Stroup said, "marijuana is a mild, National Organization for the smokers is no solution. It merely relatively .harmless; drug as used Reform of Marijuana Laws, said exacerbates the situation." by the overwhelming majority of 
prohibition against marijuana The suit asks the court to declare persons." "constitutes an unwarranted in­that laws prohibiting the private The suit, named as defendants 
trusion into the private lives of possession and use of marijuana Attorney General Elliott millions of Americans." violates an individual's right of Richardson, Drug Enforcement 
A suit by the group was being privacy and other guarantees of Administration :Director John 
·rhe finest in Cantonese 

·Steaks 

Cuisine at Moderate Prices' 
·Chicken 


Sea Food 
-. 
Quiet atmosphere ple~sont· surroundings 
CLOSED MONDAYS 

filed in U.S. District Court today. the Constitution. 
Bartles, Washington D.C. Police r~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::~--,
"The continued criminal It relies on recent Supreme Chief Jerry Wilson and District of prohibition of the pivate use of Court decisions concerning Columbia Mayor Walter marijuana serves no useful abortion, birth control and· the Washington. 
purpose while cBMt!ng irreparable 






SENIOR -TRIP 
SMC discusses parietal rules. 
M. Elizabeth Loughran. There are 
by Melissa Byrne 12 noon to 10 p.m. on Sundays, also four new replacements, in-Staff Reporter during which hours male visitors eluding Mary Ellen Stumpf, Sr. 
Male Visitation Policy will be would be allowed in dormitory Kathleen Anne Nelligan, Sr. M. discussed at the SMC Board of rooms." Bertrand Sullivan and Sr. M. Regents meeting on Saturday, "The proposed document is the Campion Kuhn. October 13, 1973 in LeMans Hall. strongest asset the students have "This is going to be quite a Mary Ellen Stumpf, student at this time." said McKiernan. progressive meeting as far as new representative to the Board with "The Male Visitation Policy is a 33 members and the scheduled 
NOTE: IF YOU DON•T HESITATE 
fuH regent powers, will move.that page document worked on for nine agenda," said Stumpf. If the Male the Male Visitation Policy be months. It merits an intellectual Visitation Policy proposal is ap­

YOU.LL FIND YOURSELF IN THE 
discussed. and mature discussion." proved, the Board will decided at The Board of Regents tabled Last year the SMC Planning that time when the policy will take 

MIDST OF A GREAT TIME!! 
discussion of the same proposal Process studied various areas of effect. "If passed, I would hope last May. Although the Male the college. The Student Life Task the Male Visitation Policy would Visitation proposal is not on the Force concentrated on a Male be put into effect immediately," agenda for Saturday's meeting, Visitation Policy. They sent. said McKiernan. . 
Act Now 

any regent can move the proposal questionaires to parents,alumnae, be brought up for discussion. faculty, administration and 
SMC Student Government students. After nine months a 
determined Wednesday evening to Male Visitation Policy report was 
present the Male Visitation Policy developed based on the 
proposal at Saturday's Board questionnaire results and other 
Meeting. The decision was areas of study. 
reached after student represen-The proposal was passed in the 
tatives polled the SMC student SMC Student Assembly, the SMC 
body. Student Affairs Committie and the 
"The students want the policy SMC Student Affairs Council. The presented now because it deserves Male Visitation proposal was then a decision with a rational answer," presented to the SMC Board of said Barb McKiernan, chairman of Regents in May, 1973. SMC Board of Governance. "We The Board of Regents tabled can't lose anything by discussing discussion of the same proposal the .Male Visitation Policy now last May. They said a rational because regardless of the answer decision was Impossible at that we will get feedback we can use for time because of a letter issued further action." outside the Planning Process by a 
The Male Visitation Policy committee of .concerned parents, proposes: (1) That the present faculty and alumnae. Male Visitation Hours at Saint The SMC Board of Regents now Mary's College be extended and has eight new members, including 
(2) That Saint Mary's College Mary Hellmuth, Elizabeth Nolan,· adopt a weekend policy of 7 p.in. to Dr. G. Olsen, Dr_ J. Pelikan, Lee 12 midnight on Friday ; 12 Schulman, Sr. M. Theodora Abreu, noon to 12 · Sr. M. Rosaleen Dunlea and Sr. 
.., .,, ~ ~ 

Parachuting Instruction 

Sign up for the 
Your first jump course takes only 3 hours. 
Senior trip 
World's largest and safes.t.
Our 15th year. 

*parties *dlsneyworld
Over 220,000 jamps. 

FUN
21 ,000 First jumps. 

*sunshine 
*ND football 
Free brochure. 

s25 deposit due Fri. Oct. 12 at Travel Bureau
PARACHUTES INC., CRAWFORDSVILLE CENTER ~ RR No. 7, Municipal Air,ort lal) Crlwfordsvilll, lndllnl 47933 
QUESTIONS?
LU P•one: 317-362·8253 

CALL BOB OR CHARLIE 233-9555 




Shakespeare Film Series 
presents 
Willia~JJ Shakespeare's 
\ 


,JuliUs Caesar 
Starring M. Srando 
J. Gielgud (35 mm) 
\ 

Mon_day, Oct. J5 Washi~gton Hall 
7 pm & 10 pm 
J. Mason FREE 
... ., . 
~ • • • •••••••••••• 0 • • • L • • '-0 0 • o • f • 


ND ratio rapidly improving 
by Mike Welby schools. gets the date that loses in the long 
Staff Reporter The 13.7:1 ratio for seniors run. should make the freshmen aware Regardless, a quick glance at the 
Someone told me last year that of their great fortune. Of course chart should clear up the the ratio of men to women at Notre the upperclassmen counteract this misconceptions concerning the Dame was 16:1. The estimate raUo by taking out younger girls actual proportions of men and 
women here at Notre Dame. The

Dbserv..-lnsiraht real statistics are as encouraging 
seems outrageous now, but at the time it sounded reasonable. It was believable enough that I never bothered to check it for myself. In fact, living on the north quad: the estimate seemed low. '' 
It was not until I saw last year's yearbook that I began to question the 16: 1 ratio. If one was to judge by the yearbook, girls must have outnumbered guys last year. I saw more girls in the first twenty-five pages of the yearbook, than I had seen on the North Quad all year. They must have been hiding in the yearbook office all along. 
While some things are sacred and never change, the ratio of men to women is not. As a matter of fact, things are improving rapidly. When you consider the 
sophomore ratio of 8.95:1, the freshman ratio of 3.28: 1looks very good. It will never be a rt>se garden but things are getting better. 
If one takes St. Mary's into account, the ratio drops even further. Taking the enrollment of botll.s.chools, the overall un­derg(llduate ratio is only around 
2.6:1. .For the freshman the figure is only 1.56:1. <That must mean that for every freshman male that gets a date, 0.56 males stay back a~ the form.) The freshman ratio is better 'than many state-run 
Coffeehouse purchases 
new .sound 
by Peggy Frericks Staff Reporter 

The St. Mary's Coffeehouse has recently purchased a new sound system to replace the rented system that had previously been used. The purchase was made from remaining funds from last year plus a $400 donation by Dr. Henry. The Peavey sound system will also be available for US!f by the St. Mary's student government. 
The St. IV':ary's Coffeehouse provides an informal atmosphere with St. Mary's and Notre Dame's finest performers. The cof­feehouse is open every Friday night from 9:30 to 1:30. En­tertainers for October 12 will be John Salveson at 9:30, on piano; David Shaheen, Jack Schneider and Greg Mandolini, guitarists, at 10:30; Rick Walters, also a guitarist, at 11 :30; and Tony Amenta on piano, at 12:30. Saga wiH be providing brownies, Ice cream and chocolate sauce for 25 cents. 
Due to the mid-semester break, there will be no performance at St. Mary's Coffeehouse on October 19. However a Halloween Party is being planned for October 26. 
Anyone interested in performing at the coffeehouse should contact Kathy Carrigan at 5168. 
Pastel Portraits ­
A UniquP. Gift from color photos $15 

Framing Service 
reasonably priced 
Erica's 

on the balcony of 
Thieves Market 
2309 E. Edison 

.....sa"t: and 's~~: "ui-6 .. 
as they are surprising.

-' 
and the freshrnen probably -find Although there will never be 
dates for everyone, at least there

· themselves at lhe short end of the 
are enough wallflowers around

stick anyway. At least in principle 
that nobody has to sit in the dorm

the freshmen are more fortunate. 
alone.

Then again, it may be tl)e guy that 
SMC to have voice recital....__....;O~e::..:.:n.....;l~l..::,a.:.:.:. 2,:::.:a•:.:.:,m&.&...£,LM~t.:.X.M~----'


m.:.:.··~ 


WOODY HERM/\l\1
and his 

ORCHESTRA 
A NEW STANDARD IN EXCITING HEROS. 

Tuesdiy, October 16, 1971 
TICKETS AVAILABLE AT

7:JO E.S.T. 
STUDENT UNION 

O'LAUGHUN HALL 
TICKET OFFICE. 

of ST. MARY'S COLLEGE $4.00 SOUTH BEND, IND. (ALL TICKETS 15°0 
per person at door). 

Welcome ND/SMC Men & Women Memberships Available to South Bend's New Downtown Private Club 

THE RED DOOR CLUB 
11 0 1/2 N. Main 
Get your class act together 
•.. in Levi's· Panatela· Slacks 
use your Mast~r Cha•ge or Bankarnencard 
Town & Country Shopping Center (Mini Mall) 
Phone 255-2722 
• 

, ~. I l ' . .' . , t • t
''' Thursday, October 11, 1973 
the observer 

en your parents are in town, have hem stay in South Bend's NEWEST Hotel 

:RogalJfnn· 
31& S. St Josep• Restn1tions: (219) 282·2511 
WEEKEND SPECIALS AVAILABLE 
For dining, visit our 
JOLLY KING RESTAURANT 
nd afterwards hit the "in spot" in town 
THE PURPLE JESTER DISCOTHEQUE LOUNGE. 
Dancing under psychedelic lights 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 
tam going to be disowned unless I get 3-4 GA tlx for my father for any home game but Air Force. Will pay $$. Call 4077. 
Desperately need GA tix for the Army and the Navy games. Call 1364. 
Need GA tix to USC. Call Phil 1598. 
Desperately need 8 stud. USC tix. Eill meet inflationary demands. Call Pat 288-5563. 
Need Tix to USC. Please call Dan at 282-1568. 
Desperately need 3 GA USC tix Call 7835 now. · 
Need 2 GA Navy tix. Will pay SS. Call 3129. 
Beginner needs . inexpensi11e guitar. Call 57A9. 
Really need 3 GA USC fix. Please call Evelyn 6956.$ 
Need 3 USC tix, 4 Navy tix. Call tom 6522. Will pay. 
Need Army tix. Call Tom 232­2693. 
Need 4 or 2 pair GA USC tix. Will pay premimu price. Call Terry 3478. 
Need 2·6 GA tix for USC. Will pay reasonably exorbitant prices. Also need 2 GA fix MSU. 232-2973. 
Need to BBUY OR RENT 'I• MAN TENT . Call 234-9535. 
Need 2 GA tix Navy. Call 272· 0620. 
Need 2 USC tix. Call Chuck 234· 2542. 
Desperately need 2 USC tix. Call 287-1178 after 10 pm. 
Need 2 USC tix. Call Michele 4161. 
Parttime help needed in car wash near campus. Hours weekdays 7:30am to 3 pm. $1.80 hr. Call 291-2673. 
Need Many Navy fix. Will pay well Rich 7802. 
Need 2 GA fix for Navy . Will pay. George 287-5698. 
Need 2-4 GA tix USC. Call Scott! 1598. 
Need 1 stud. 1 GA USC or 2 GA Call Steve 233-1302. 
FOR SALE 
MEERSCHAUM PIPES! Exceptional value, per. sonalized service. Catalog. Pmp Co. Box 444 Gaither­sburg, MD. 20760' 
Yamaha guita.r FG300(retail price $300) rosewood, inlaid perat, ad iustable bridge, hardshell case, excellent condition. Call David 8427. 
68 Mustang-6cyl. dk. blue, very good condition . see at NO stadium Gate 1or c:all 272-9983 (greg) after 5. 
Craig R-to ·R tape deck, BSturntable. Phone Tom 288· . ·•..~'!-97 ... • ,\ ..\ .· ·'.·'. •. '.·'.·'.·':'.. : 
'63 VW, good condition. Will Dicker. 272-2445. 
NOTICES 
Morrissey Loan Fund can loan 
·up to $150 at 1 percent interest, 1 day waititng period. Basement of LaFortune. 11:15­12:15Mon -Fri. 
GSU SOCIAL COMMITTEE is loooking for members . Be a BPOC; fringe benefits retirement plan etc. Call Paul B. at 6615 or 272-7405. 
PITTSBURGH CLUB THERE 
IS A BUS TO PITTSBURGH 
FOR SEMESTER BREAK. PAYMENT DUE SUN. OCT. 147/a 7 PM. LAFORTUND AMPHITHEATRE (1st FOLLR )QUESTIONS BOB 2127 John 1786. 
EUROPEAN STUDY TOUR: S Dec. 27 +Jan. 15 England Ireland Scotland Wales. 3 college credits avaible S679 all expenses from NY. For in· formation call Prof. Ar Black SMC 4948. 
Students interested in ND-SMC GAy Studnet alliance call 7768­Wed or Fril 7-9pm. 
Junior League Thrift Shop Sale. over 30.000 new + used items-, furniture , clotheing, housewares, etc. 4-H fairgrouonds Sat. POet. 13, 9-5 pm. Free Parking, Free ad· mission. 
Farm trip this Saturday. 1· 
6:30. Meet at Logan. WOMEN OF ND-SMC COMMUNITY: Calli for information now lor the'. Dillon Hall Homeconing Queen Contest . Phone 1800, 1863, or 1796. Prizes galore! Deadline Oct. 22 so call today. 
Gtorfindet drices the Nine Riders from the Bridge at Mitheithel. 
RIDES WANTED 
Help!! Need ride to Newark, Dt'laware (U of Delaware) for Oct. break. Share expenses. Andy 1623. 
Need ride to Pittsburgh Oct. 18. Will share expense and driving. Jack 3486. 
Need ride to Cincy round trip OCt. 12. Hare $$. Call Matt 8573. Please help. 
Need ride to D. C. Oct. 18. Will share $$. 1188. 
Need ride to Green Bay area Oct. 12. Call 4561. 
FOR RENT 
Large 1 Br. apt. Completely remodled + furnished, with full kitchen. Utilities paid. 
!135 mo. Call 232-6622 days only ask for Jim. 
Room for rent . 8 min. from NO. Call 232-4545. 
Rooms $40 mo. rides to school. 233-1329. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost Javelin dey ring. Please call MCP 4738. 
High school class ring lost near rock. S5 reward, 8763. 
PERSONALS 
Vonce there was a jock· Hog farmers vas his clan. I vonce saw him under the moon And I van ad I van and I van. 

Saint Mary's music department will present Joan Zimmerman, soprano, in a voice recital Thur­sday, October 11, at 8: 15 p.m. in tfie College's Little Theatre. 
Zimmerman will be ac­companied by Patty Jo Cahalan at the piano, and Roger Brown on the A clarinet. -Songs of classic, roman tic; and contemporary styles in German, Latin, French, Spanish, and English will be in­cluded in the program. 
A senior at Saint Mary's, Zimmerman appeared in the lead roles in the Notre Dame-saint Ma.ry's Theatre productions of "Showboat" and "The Fan­tastics." She is a voice student of Susan Stevens, member of the music department faculty. 
The public is invited to attend the recital. Admission is free. 
Hours: Mon-Thurs: 12-9 Fri: 11-9 Sat: 10-6 Sun: 12-5 

'<
' 
~ 
the observer Thursday, October 11, 1973
8 
Irish CC Invitational this Friday 
Traditional cross country powers Bowling Green, Ball State, Eastern Michigan and Cincinnati return to the Burke Memorial Golf Course Friday for the 18th Annual Notre Dame Invitational Meet. Host coach Don Faley has received entries from 32 Midwest squads for this 2:00 meet on the fast five­mile Irish course. 
New entries will include Toledo and Wisconsin. The Big Ten Badgers may be considered for team honors with exceptional depth. Individual 1972 winner Mike Slack of North Dakota has graduated along with runner-up Steve Wynder of Ball State. Third place finisher Steve Foster of Ashland will return in hopes of capturing individual honors. 
Other top contenders are NCAA three-and six-mile champ Gordon Minty of Eastern Michigan, Craig Macdonald of Bowling Green and Jim Stanley of Concinnati. Several outstanding freshmen will , be running including Greg Meyer of Michigan, winner of all Wolverine dual meets this season, and high school pre mile ace, Jim Reinhart of Notre Dame. The South Dakota High School Athlete of the Year will be joined by teammates Mike Housley, Mike Gahagan, and Jim Hurt as the Irish hopes. 
Coach Faley has initiated a new meet this year. With the rapid growth of the Invitational, now the 
Hockey road trips arranged lor'73-'74 season 
The ND Student Hockey Club is adding the following away games to our "home" schedule: a.) Michigan Stae (East Lansing) on November lOth b.) Michigan <Ann Arbor) on December 8th and c.( Wisconsin <Madison) on March 2nd. 
The trips will leave the university on Saturday and return after the game. 
It is estimated the cost of trips will run $10-$12 and will include transportation on chartered bus and one ticket to the game. The buses will be filled on a first come first serve basis only. 
Anyone interested in joining the club and or helping in various planning areas may contact Chuck Allberry, Bob Farley, or Harry Bigham at 6891 or 3829. 

nation's largest, each team will Over 250 harriers will run on the run only seven men in the In­Irish course Friday along with vitational meet. about 100 in the Open Meet. For­
A second meet, the Notre Dame mer individual winners include Open, will provide teams an op­Frank Carver and Bill Clark of portunity to compete additional Notre Dame and Olympian Dave runners. World record holder and Wottle of BowliN~ Green. 
Notre Dame graduate Rick Team honors in 1972were captured 
Wohlhuter will highlight the en­by Bowling Green with Eastern tries in the Open. Glen Harold, Michigan and Ball State as runner­former Wisconsin distance star, ups. The Irish finished eighth on will compete as will 1972 NCAA the strength of Dan Dunne's 19th finalist Dan Dunne, now a law place. 
student at · Notre Dame. Admission is free for the 2:00 The Invitational was started in Invitational and the Open Meet 1055 by Irish coach Alex Wilson which will follow the Invitational's vith only a few teams competing. conclusion. 
Irish ninth in AP and UPI 
by Peggy Lawlor thirteenth in the AP. Eastern powerbouse Penn State 
Despite a scare by unranked retained the seventh spot after a Michigan State, Notre Dame win over the Air Force Academy. remained ninth in the UPI poll this Tennessee, now 4-0, rankedeighth, week, and fell one spot to ninth in and the LSU Tigers rounded out the AP. Both polls list the same top the top ten. ten teams, and all are repeats from last week's ratings. 
Woody Hayes' Ohio State AP Ratings 
Buckeyes retained the first place The Top Twenty with first-place 
votes in parentheses. season records spot, after a convincing win over and total pomts. Pmnts tabulated on basis of 26-18-U~I4-12-1G-9-8-7-6-5-4-3-H:
Washington State. A distant second 
W-L·T Pts 

was Nebraska, who defeated I. Ohio State (41)......... 3-G-0 1.150 2. Nebraska (9) .......... ~0 1.032 Minnesota for their fourth straight 3. Alabama (6) ............ 4-G-0 876 
4. S. Cahf. (I) ............. 3-G-1 782

win. The Cornhuskers meet un­
5. Michigan (I) ... ~-....... 4-G-0 697 defeated, twelfth-ranked Missouri '-Oklahoma ............... %-G-1 632 
7. Penn State tn .......... ~0 6211 this Saturday, as the Tigers will 8. Tennessee .............. 4-G-0 419 
9. Notre Dame ............ 3-G-0 417

seek to revenge their 62-0 troun­
10. Louisiana State ......... 4-G-0 416 cing a year ago. 11. Arizona State ......•.... 4-G-0 241 12. Missouri .......•.••..... 4-G-0 215',2 
Meanwhile, two touchdown 13. Texas ................... 2-1-0 161% 14. HoustOII ................. ~0 124
winner Southern California 
15. UCLA ................... 3-1-0 103 
16. Miami, Fla.............. 2-1-0 631,2

dropped two spots to fifth in the 
17. Colorado ................ 3-1-0 34 UPI poll. They remained fourth in 18. Tulane .................. u-o 28 1~. Kansas.................. 3-1·0 %1the AP behind Alabama, who beat 211. Miami. Ohio ........... 4-G-0 9 
Gergia in a hard-fought duel. 
Michigan, an easy victor over UPI Ratings 
The United Press International's

Oregon, is ranked fourth and fifth 
Board of Coaches major college loot­baU ratings with number ol first place

respectively in the UPI and AP. 
votes m parentheses: The Wolverines will meet Points 
1. Ohio State 3-0 (21) ...............334Michigan State this Saturday in 2. Nebraska 4-0 (8) .................308 
3. Alabama 4-0 (6) .................m

their annual intrastate rivalry. 
4. Mich1gan 4-0 .....................214 After barely defeating Miami of 5. Southern California 3-G-1 ...•... 2115 6. Oklahoma 2-0-1 ..................167Florida, Oklahoma still placed 7. Penn State 4-0 ...................135 8. TeMessee 4-0.....•.............. 73
sixth in both polls, while the 
9. Notre Dame 3-0 ................. 72 Hurricanes failed to receive any 10. Louisiana State 4-0 .............. 71 11. UCLA 3-1 ........................ 24
votes in the UPI rankings . Miami 12. Anwna State 4-0 ................ 1!1 13. Houston 4-0 ...................... 14
was sixteenth in the AP while 
14. ~ '>M>uri 4-0. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 Texas, who lost an earlier decision 15 Tulane 3-0 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 16 Texas Z·l . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 
to the Hurricanes, held down the 17. Colorado 3-1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I (Only 17 teams received votes) 
sixteenth spot in the UPI and 

by Hal Munger 
Notre Dame's improving soccer club downed a tough Cincinnati varsity under the lights in ancy Friday night 3-2. The victory came from strong defense and unselfish team offensive play. 
Cincinnati, a town now hot with pennant fever, has in recent years been the scene of a generous following for the town's pro soccer team. The pro following has set high standards for the University's soccer program. So it was a moral victory for the Irish who have suffered from inconsistency early this season. 
Itwas ND who scored first, early in the contest. Jafar Moghadam scored, with an assist from Bob Donovan 5 minutes into the game. Jafar tallied at 31 minutes into the initial half. The Fighting Irish fullbacks were instrumental in retaining the first half shut out. Mike Farrely, Bob Rolf, and Guy Higgins consistently halted Oncy threats. 
The first point of the second half was Cincinnati's in the opening ten minutes. Notre Dame canned the game-clinching goal about 5 minutes later. Steve Malpica, with his back to the goal, kicked the shot over his own shoulder and into the net. Guy Higgins was awarded the assist on that play. Cincinnati put in another goal in the game's waning moments but the ND defense made the score hold at 3-2. 
Besides coming together on defense to stop the fast Cincinnati wingers, the Irish offense played well as a unit. Passes were short and quick, with halfbacks Pat Flood, John Thornton, Rick Hich­wa, and Mike Fitzgerald coming through with many of those passes. 
As team captain Mike Fitzgerald put it, "We came together on of­fense and defense. It was a team victory." 
An away match with the Bradley varsity is next. 

B-ball tryouts 
Varsity basketball tryouts for all students, including freshmen, will be held on Monday, October 15 at 4:30p.m. in the main arena of the ACC. Tryouts will be on this day only and all candidates must bring their own equipment. 


notre dame concerts -Student Union presents an evening with 



PaulSimon 









