On The Inside 
New Shuttle route 
... p. 2 
SMC changes requirements 
... p. 3 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VIII, No.3 Friday, September 7, 1973 

by Anthony Abowd Trustees was probably one of the 
News Editor best student efforts they had ever 
seen," says Ken Knevel, fifth year
Renovation of LaFortune architecture student and chairman Student Center, according to of the renovation committee. student plans, is nearing reality. "They told us that the renovation Over the summer a committee of through them would meet no ob­the Board of Trustees approved the stacles if the funding could be plans of the LaFortune Renovation found." Committee, providing funding is Knevel, Dan Schipp, another 
found. student on the renovation com­
"Our presentation before the mittee, several administrators and 
llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 
'Party House' sites proposed 
by Bill Sabin Staff Reporter 
A proposal for a "Party House," a place where students could legally party and drink has been made by a Student Life Council summer committee, according to Robert Ackerman, Director of Staff Development. 
The proposal is only in the planning stage, but it is expected that the SLC will take action on the issue at its first meeting, the date of the meeting has not been determined. 
The purpose of the idea is to make the dormitories more compatible to studying and sleeping without denying those who would want to party the opportunity to do so. The well­known hall and dorm parties are presently against University regulations anywhere on campus. 
The new proposal would not only provide a place in which such partying would be legal, but it also would provide an environment much more conducive to a party than a par­ticular hallway in a dormitory. 
Possible "Party House" sites included Stepan Center, the Bulla Shed, the America lounge in the basement of Flanner, and the red barn at the north east corner of the campus. The committee, working with the Student Affairs office, now considers the Red Barn to be the most suitable. 
The barn's location away from the dorms, its medium size (Stepan was considered too big and cumbersome), and its potential after a rennovation as, say, a Swiss-chalet-type of place makes the red barn all the more desirable. 
However, the whole plan is yet to be considered by the entire SLC. There are still unanswered questions surroun­ding the proposal. 
Besides the location there is the omnipresent question of financing. The committee hopes the University will provide some of the funds and perhaps Student Government will help out, they hope. 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIUIUIIIIUUUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII! 
representatives from Ellerbe Architects met in July to discuss practical aspects of the renovation. 
"It looks like the total project will cost around $700,000," says Knevel. "We are meeting later this month with the interior designers from Ellerbe and then we'll tell them exactly what we want." 
Knevel points out that the con­struction will be in phases once the go-ahead is given. 
"Phase one of the plans calls for renovation of the Rathskellar, tne basement of LaFortune. This can be done during the school year because it won't effect many ac­tivities. Construction of the entire building would have to be done during the summer, much like the south dining hall was renovated this summer." 
Funding is the major stumbling block remaining. The committee hopes to find the money necessary to begin the project. 
"Funding is handled through Dr. Frick's Development office," said Dr. Robert Ackerman, director of staff development in the office of Student Affairs and a member of the renovation committee. "They are trying tointeresta donor. As a matter of policy nothing about their efforts is released prematurely." 
Knevel emphasizes that 
renovation plans will follow the 
original suggestions provided by 
ND students, mainly architect 
majors. But the work of the 
committee is far from completed. 
They must now deal with the 
specific designs of the renovation. 
"The committee now is going to 
be involved with specifics for the 
rest of the building. We need to 
take inventory to see what the 
offices in the building want. 
Ultimately the committee will 
become the Student Center Board 
to supervise use of the renovated 
building." 
Student input is still needed, 
according to Knevel. He is 
currently handling requests from 
students to do the remaining work. 
"We need students with ideas in 
interior design for the student 
center and we need student art­
work. The Student Activities of­
fice, in the first floor of LaFortune, 
is handling all information 
requests currently," says Knevel. 
Activities Night slated 
by Denise Crowley Staff Reporter 
Student Government is sponsoring an Ac­tivities Night Monday, September 10, from 7 
p.m. to 12 p.m. at LaFortune Student Center. "Carny '73," another Student Government­sponsored orientation and welcoming event, will be held on Wednesday, September 12, from 4 
· p.m. to 8 p.m. on the South Quad. Over 100 clubs will be out to get acquainted with students on and off campus and at St. Mary's during Activities Night. Club representatives will be at the Center to distribute literature, answer questions, and sign up new members. Groups already signed up for Activities Night include club sports, community service projects, academic clubs, geographic area clubs, game clubs, the media services, and student govern­ment. Carny '73 is a first-ever orientation carnival at Notre Dame. It will consist of a picnic dinner, games, free prizes, and entertainment. The picnic dinner will be served from 4: 30 p.m. to 6:30p.m. The menu, for both quads, includes cold chicken, foot-long hot dogs, corn-on-the­cob, and other side dishes. Students must eat on their respective quads. After dinner, Fr. Theodore Herburgh, President of the University, and Dennis (H-Man) Etienne, Student Body President, will officially welcome the students. Groups still interested in participating in Activities Night should contact the Student Activities Office at 3664 before Saturday. Clubs and organizations must register at the main desk in LaFortune on Monday. The booths will be set up on Monday from 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. WSND, the student radio station, will broad­cast from the Student Center Monday night. The Notre Dame Glee Club will sing selections during the evening. Carny '73 games will include a dunking booth, basketball shooting games, bean bag toss, football throw, and surprise kissing booth. Winners of these games will receive tickets, redeemable for free prizes. Folk groups and bands will be playing as students enjoy free cotton candy, slushes, balloons, and clowns. 
Dan Schipp, one of the program's organizers, stressed that student government hopes to have the whole community, students, faculty, ad­ministration, and their families, join together and share in the picnic and carnival. 
Student govt, 
HPC plan year's 
activities 
.•. see page 6 
---------~~----------~-~~~ ~--~-----· ~-------~-­
1. the observer Friday, September 7, 1973 
warld 
briefs 
Washington--Many gasoline retailers across the nation may find themselves in abindas new price regulations take effect Friday night and as a major oil company raises its wholesale rate. 
Washington--Former mine workers leader W. A. "Tony" Boyle proclaims his innocence of murder and conspiracy charges in the 1969 shooting of his rival for office, Joseph A. ··Jock" Yablonski, and is released on bail. 
Los .-\ngeles--Egil "Bud" Krogh has pleaded innocnet to the burglary of Daniel Ellsberg's psychiatrist, admitting he authorized the break-in but saying that at the time he was convinced the covert operation was "fully authorized and lawful." 
Galveston--Tropical storm Delia creates violent weather throughout the Southwest, forcing hundreds of coastal residents to flee their homes, but finally disintegrates deep in Texas. 
Washington--President Nixon confers with his cabinet on inflation, as new figures show a big jump in wholesale prices. 
an campus taday 
friday 
12:00-10:00 p.m.--antique show, midwest antique show, athletic and 
convocation center 
6, 8, 10, 12 p.m. -film, slaughterhouse-five, knights of columbus hall saturday 
12:00-10:00 p.m. -antique show, midwest antique show, athletic and 
C( nvocation center 
6, 8, 10, 12 p.m ...film, slaughterhouse-five, knights of columbus hall 
8:00 p.m ...concert, the temptations, athletic and convocation center 
sunday 
12:00-6:00 p.m ...antique show, midwest antique show, athletic and 
convocation center 
7:30 p.m. -meeting, celtic society, international room in Iafortune 
basement 
ND-SMC shuttle bus changes night route 
by Paul Szewczyk West gate. The buses then drive past the ROTC building and The Notre Dame-St. Mary's Grotto, to the rear of the Ad­shuttle bus service has changed its ministration building and past the 
11 :00 pm route. The new route infirmary. Leaving the in­omits the roads about the firmary, the buses move past the perimeter of the campus and Security office to Flanner Hall and 
utilizes the roads that the North Dining Hall. The buses travel through the inside then travel to O'Shaugnessy Hall, University grounds. turn back to the Grotto and move 
The new night route comes into out the same way they entered effect after 11:00 pm on all nights St. Mary's·. ending at 12:30 am Sunday through Thursday and at 2:00am Friday The new path will make 
and Saturday. The new system traveling safer than previousbegan yesterday. nights and will also be more 
The route starts from the 
convenient for all who use the Memorial Library and proceeds to shuttle bus system, say officials. 
the Stadium, heading toward the 

MORRIS CIVIC 
AUDITORIUM 
MUHAMMAD 
All 
FORMER 
WORLD VS. CHAMPION 
DIRECT FROM RINGSIDE AT THE FABULOUS FORUM. INGLEWOOD, CALIF. 

TICKETS ON SALE NOW 
auditorium box office 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. daily (except Sunday) 
ALL SEATS GENERAl ADMISSION t7_70 in advance $8.80 dov of fight ---• -· " A ••n C' A \II: 
OC bus service 
seen for students 
in near future 
by Paul Szewczyk Staff Reporter 
Plans for a limited shuttle bus system for off-campus Notre Dame students are nearing completion and hopefully will go into effect in the near future. 
Only the pianning of the routes is needed before the bussing arrangements are finalized, ac­cording to Dennis Etienne, Student Body President. 
"Setting up the routes is the problem," stated Etienne, "we need a concentration map before we can begin. After we have this, we'll start a shuttlebus on a limited basis." 
Etienne also stated that if the off­campus bussing is successful, a expanded program will be developed. "We can't risk !"tarting out with a huge service, but v.~·n enlarge the system if it works," remarked Etienne. 
Schedules for the off-campus shuttle will not be released until all details have been worked out. Although Etienne couldn't give a date for the bussing to start, he promised it wouldn't be too distant in the future. 
The off-campus bussing will join the already operating between St. Mary's and Notre Dame. 
welcome back from 
ROCCO'S 
537 N· St. Louis Blvd 
across from 
Pandora's SOUTH BEND'S 
FINEST pizza, spaghetti Italian sandwiches 
and American food 
CARRY-OUTS 
-
233-0872 
The Observer is published daily during the college seme~ter exupt vacations by the swaents ol !he University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S8 per semester (514 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, 
Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
LEARN TO JUMP 

4
···~ 
MCPC Inc. Skydiving center 

AGIVITIES NIGHT MONDAY 
Sept. 10 7-12 p.m. 
LaFortune Student Center 
Tomorrow Night! ! !  
First concert  
of the  
!i  year!!!  !!  
!  !  
=  =  
THE TEMPTATIONS  
Saturday, Sept. 8,  8:00 p.m.  
Athletic & Convocation Center  
All seats reserved $3, $4.50, $5.50  
~  tickets on  sale at  ~  
~ !  Athletic & Convocation Center Monday-Saturday, 9 a.m.-5 pm  ~ ~  

illllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllli 
Friday, September 7, 1973 the observer 
3 

Core requirements changed 
by SMC 
by Maria Gallagher St. Mary's Editor 
A change in core requirements, retroactive to all students, was approved over the summer by Saint Mary's Board of Regents. The announcement came in a letter to upperclassmen from Mrs. Gail Mandell of the academic affairs office. 
Under the new curriculum guidelines, candidates for all baccalaureate degrees must demonstrate proficiency in composition and in foreign language. The English requirement may be satisified through examinationor by com­pleting ENLT 100, proficiency in writing, or another course ap­proved by the English department. 
The writing proficiency requirement is satisfied by the required English Literature courses upperclassmen took at Saint Mary's or Notre Dame. 
PROFICIENCY IN FOREIGN 
language may be demonstrated 
through examination or by 
completing six semester hours of 
foreign language. Candidates for 
the B.S. degree in medical 
technology, medical records ad­
ministration, cytotechnology or 
nuclear medicine tecnn01ogy are 
exempt from this requirement. 
Revisions in core requirements for B.A. and B.B.A. candidates have also been implemented. Requirements are divided into three areas. Area I, in which a minimum of eight semester courses must be taken, consists of history, literature <American or English), mathematics, philosophy, religious studies, art, humanistic studies, music, and speech and drama. One course must be tak•,n in each of the first five, and the additional courses may be taken in any department in Area I. 
NOT MORE THAN two courses may be taken in any one depart­ment to fulfill these requirements. 
A minimum of two semester course must be taken from the following science offerings. <Area 
board of regents 
"PHILOSOPHICALLY, the new guidelines have the same intent as the old ones-to offer an in­troduction to all disciplines, but students shouldn't be forced to 
1111 take subjects which they find 
SMC sets soprano for September 13 
The music department of Saint 
Mary's will present Elizabeth VVrancher, soprano, in concert Thursday, September 13, at 8:15 
p.m. in the Little Theatre. She will be accompanied on the piano by Dana Spencer, instructor in the music department. 
Miss VVrancher, a 1955 graduate from Indiana University, was the first American to win the In­ternational Radio Music Contest. 
The concert is open to the public free of charge. 
The Distillery Liquor Store 
c:: 1723 S. BendJim '63 
0 
II)
Chuck '65 Proprietors 
~-+----­
Welcome back Gin & Vodka Y2 Gals.-$8.87 $2.39 12 Packs 
Michelob cans$1.05 off a case Styrofoam coolers for tappers Call ahead for keg& 272-9800 

case discounts-liquor & wine 
LCOME BACK STUDEN 
*MAC'S RECORD RACK* 
2925 Mishawaka Ave. 
next to River Park Theater 
I~ 
~~~~
* lp's *needles *special *record 
orders cleaning *tapes equipment 
If we don't have it, we 'II get it 
j on sale now-Santana, Mclaughlin, Tull 
Main Church 
Sunday Masses 
5:15p.m. Sat. Fr. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 9:30a.m. Sun. Fr. Wiskirchen, C.S.C. 
10:45 a.m. Sun. Fr. Patrick Maloney, C.S.C 
I 
12:15 p.m. Fr. William Toohey, C.S.C. 
NotreDameConcerts/Student Union 
' presents 
RCA recording artists 
PURE PRAIRIE LEAGUE 
in a free concert at Stepan Center 
II): astronomy (not presently offered), biology, chemistry, and physics. Finally, a minimum of two semester courses must be taken in area III, with not more than one course in any depart­ment: business administration-­economics, political science, psychology and sociology. 
CANDIDATES FOR the B.S., B.F.A., and B.M. degrees should consult their major departments for new ;·equirements as they may vary in individual cases. 
The revised curriculum outline was first formulated by the committee on academic matters of the Planning Committee, referred to President Edward Henry and approved, and finally ratified by irrelevant. On the positive side, it permits them to choose more freely courses they will enjoy." 
Core requirement revisions will not affect the coexchange agreement. The same re!'trictions still apply--core requirements may not be taken at Notre Dame. Freshmen must still pay fees for any Notre Dame courses, sophomores and juniors are limited to one free coexchange course per semester, and seniors may select two free courses. 
the department chairmen, who made it retroactive for all students. It became official by a Board of Regents vote at their 

Saturday, Sept. 15 at 8:00 p.m.
June meeting. 
Mandell felt that the change "brought Saint Mary's requirements more realistically in line with what similar colleges are 
N.D./SMC 10 required for admission
demanding of their students." She clarified, however, that the issue of comprehensive examinations is 
still under study, as is a revision in the requirement of 128 credit hours for graduation. 
r~'*"'"-"""""""=~.<.w.=w.<=~'*~"'"''"""""""'=-'~<_.1 
Before: ~l1l 



During: 
Student Billing Service 
makes Sense! There's no reason why you shouldn't enjoy the convenience of making long distance calls from your residence hall room phone and receiving a monthly bill for your calls ... and yours only! 
That service is available right here, right now. Dorm resi­dents may pick up their Student Billing Cards at the Indiana Bell Office. Talk it up. 
We'll mail you a Student Billing Card, if you'll call 234-5088. :~:~ Or you can drop in at our Business Office at 225 S. Main Street. Open 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday. 
@Indiana Bell 
' 
' ' l • ' ' ~ 1­
THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Jerry Lutkus Art Ferranti Dan BarreH
Editor-in-Chief Executive Editor Executive Editor 
NEWS: 283-1715 Lee Gentine EDITORIALS: 283-8661 John Kloos Advertising Manager
Business Manager BUSINESS: 283-7471 
Friday, September 7, 1973 
fram l:he edil:ar!ls desk: 

Miles Ta l:ia ... 
Thank You,
One Paper Town 
Pearl 
The responsibility of operating a football special will be published, con­
·. bulc:h ward 
campus newspaper is a staggering taining rosters and pre-game in­proposition, particularly the prospect of formation. managing a paper that is growing as In addition, The Observer, will con­
Though the new semester has seen the arrival of an unprecedented
swiftly and strongly as The Observer. It tinue publication of our Saturday 
number of women to the halls of Notre Dame, another group of women 
operates "in a one-newspaper town" with magazine Monitor. 
with a great tradition at the dome has greatly decreased its ranks. 
We intend to expand our use of the
its only news competition coming from And we're going to miss many of them. WSND--a representative of another supplement and Friday we will com­I met Pearl early in my sophomore year when she was the other media. The "one newspaper town" mence their publication with a special on third floor maid in Alumni Hall. When overcrowding caused the maids concept is always a sore spot of critics of South Bend. It will feature material on to juggle their room assignments at the start of last year, I became 
one of Pearl's "boys."
this paper, but it is likewise the situation the redevelopment project in town, the 
To have Pearl for my maid was to have much more than a bed­
as it is. new Scottsdale Mall, maps of the city and 
maker, or a sink-cleaner, or a floor-vacuumer, all of which she did 
area, bus schedules, and will include 
with tremendous care. Within that context then. we can talk stories by four South Bend Tribune To be one of Pearl's "boys" was to have a friend. about the newspaper's re&ponsibilities staffers on their specialty areas. Being a maid in Alumni Hall was more than a job for Pearl, just as it Two new features of the paper are was more than a job for many of Notre Dame's maids. Naturally she 
and obligations. We perform a service 
Oliphant, which has already been in­did her share of griping when "the sheets were late" or no one was
bringing news and information to the 
getting up early eno1.1gh for her to get started at her work. 
students, but we are not a bulletin board troduced, and Action Express. Action 
But for Pearl the third floor of Alumni was the home of clos~ to 50 
on which everyone caP indiscriminately Express will begin appearing on our 
young men whom she considered her own. It was never too much 
pages Monday and will appear three
tack up their messages. We are a trouble for her to struggle with a plunger when our sinks were clogged newspaper. We take the responsibility times a week. It will operate on an or to search for a bulb when our lights burnt out. and liability of reporting the news. No "Action Line" format and concentrate And most of all, she was never too busy to talk to us. reporting of the news is completely ob­on answering student problems. For Pearl was proud of her long association with Notre Dame and 
the thousands of students she had cared for long before we arrived
jective, but the news in The Observer is 
here. They were for Pearl a reason to work hard every day, and she 
generally as objective as we can make il Special Problems 
possessed a tremendous understanding of the student's situation at this university.
One large problem facing The Ob­
But not :.nly did she understand us, she respected us. 
Along with that responsibility of server and all other area newspapers is Pearl was never afraid to share with us problems she was havingreporting the news comes the privelege the availability of newsprint. The with illnesses in her family or the growing fear that someday soon and obligation of commenting on it and shortage of it has placed a burden on the work in the Hall would be too much for her. 
We all knew she dreaded the day that her affiliation with Notre
that comment will continue to appear on these papers and has even resulted in the 
Dame would end.
the editorial pages. It would be unfair if near shut down of many. Resultingly, 
And now it has.
we had a "vice grip" on the comment The Observer will not be able to publish 
It really is different this year not to have her around to ride because 
that we run, so the editorial column slot-­
12 page issues because of the lack of a her c•.attering awakened us early, or because she missed a piece of the column on the right hand side of the special roll of paper that is needed in the lint on our badly worn rugs.editorial page-is open to all students on production of a 12-page paper. Instead We'll all miss her flirting and her quick retorts about our ugly faces 
campus. Copy can be submitted to us, we will be coming to you in 8 or 16 pages. and her stories of how Dorners of long at;;o heat the hall rules by hiding . but it must be typed and double spaced. alcohol in fake dresser drawers. 
And we'll miss the constant reminders that Pearl has a rnird all her 
It must not exceed four pages. But all 
own.
As it stands now, we have enough papercopy is, nonetheless, subject to our 
She was a fighter from the day I met her,and I suppose it wasn't
to continue publication, but the future iseditorial decisions whether to run it or 
easy convincing her it was time to step down. But God knows, she
extremely uncertain.
nol Those decisions are based on our deserves the rest. liability as a newspaper--if copy is And Pearl isn't the only maid whose departure from Notre Dame is slanderous or places us in a liable going to be sorely felt. Certainly I've heard guys complain that their If this sounds like a state of The Ob­maid reads their mail or has forgotton hew to use the switch on the
position, it cannot be run. 
vacuum cleaner.
server message, perhaps it is. But while 
But I've rarely heard those same guys say that that maid wasn't
Services to the Students we continue publication, and presently 
someone special. Because admit it or not, we male residents of Notre 
there is no reason why we should have to 
Dr me were spoiled at home by someone who nagged, complained, and 
As stated before, service to the discontinue, we will bring you the news of pouted and thtn still came behind us and cleaned up our mess. students is an important responsibility the campus and will continue to comment And just like that special woman at horne, it was all too easy to take and with that in mind, The Observer has on it. those special women who cleaned our rooms here for granted. 
planned some additions. We will strive throughout the year to Until they're gone. 
I hope Pearl gets a chance to read this tribute to her because there's 
Beginning Wednesday, a TV guide maintain our credability and our ob­
always the possibility that she never knew how much she meant to us.
magazine will appear with The Observer. jectivity and to remain as observers and 
And I also hope that all the other women who are now gone or who It will contain all the weekly listings for commenters on the activities at Notre remain here to daily lend a hand find a reason to believe that they too 
the Michiana area. Dame. This is both our purpose and our are appreciated. Also appearing in the paper during the goal, even in this "one newspaper town." For losing Pearl means losing more than a bed-maker. She will truly be missed.
week prior to the home football games a 
God bless you, Pearl. Good luck, and thanks. 
Jerry Lutkus 
the observer
daanesbury rJarry trudeau 

8.0. P11CH£5 Of/1 
10 CAL., WHO
IT's A ROLL..-Of/1 AROI/NO
HAT& 1lJ 00 THIS 10 >fJl/ 
PRfJ'fPll-Y 61V~5 IT
1HE leFT; RONNIE. THE­
GIJY!3, 8fJ1 8./J. OR/JER£1? 
BACI(, ANO 8.0. 600{).
"CLVTCH" IG TYPICAlLY
M£ 10 OR/L.L TVt'l ON 
SCRA118/.E5 THROI/t!tll THEN
HI§ NEW PlAYS, OKAY?... 
i/!3&/? IN A U/Gi 60 
fOR A TOVCH/)(){UN IUHAi7
Qi/AR1ER. 511l/.4770V ON..
ZONKER, MY MAN, 
r 
~ 
r 

Night Editor: Joe Abell Asst. Night Editor: Maria Gallagher Day Editor: Terry Keeney 
1HEN Ill& lilt.. 
Picture Screener: Jerome Phillips 
Hl/6 HIM ANO YOl/ 
Copyreaders: Pattie Cooney and Dan Barrett 
JI/11P l/P ANO GOT 
Typists: Rob Steinmitz, Mary Romer, Mike Goetz 
00/JJN 1.-/K£ 111 
Night Controller: Howard Halle Managing Editor: Joe Abell News Editor: Anthony Abowd St. Mary's Editor: Maria Gallagher Editorial Editor: Butch Ward Features Editor: Beth Hall Sports Editor: Vic Dorr Wire Editor: Tom Drape Photo Editor: Joe Raymond Associate Editor: Rod Braye 
I . 
Friday, September 7, 1973 the observer 
Letters Ta A Lanely Gad a beast a concrete iungle 
reverend rabert griffin 

Of all the men and beasts who That is why, I think, that when very Important people. It was tliis The crowd cheered and ap­stalked the concrete jungles Darby and I went walking in Times form of pride, I think, functioning plauded, some in support of Darl>y, around Times Square this sum­Square hands were stretched out.at as a kind of tragic flaw, that and the rest on the side of llie mer, I suppose that my dog, Darby him from all over the sidewalk, tempted O'Gill one night to rid horse. I shushed at the dog and O'Gill, and I were the least and he was scratched, tickled, and Times Square of a policeman's tugged at his leh..sh, fearful of being terrifying to the tourists. In the petted from every direction. As.his horse. arrested, until · finally, the 
neighborhoods where mugger and patron and friend, I never got Here was this lovely, brown policeman road off on his beast, shiv-artists are rumored to roam scratched 9r petted, though I steed, mounted by a policeman leaving the streets safe for the the streets like the. night armies of wouldn't have minded, but I did get who looked ten feet tall in the posturings and struttings of cocker an enemy occupation, fat parsons tickled once, which shows how . saddle; and here was Darby O'Gill spaniels. seem so so very defenseless that much English Leather helps if you being fierce, forgetful of his image even shaky old ladies have been don't have the cuteness of a cocker as a parson's pup, and the whQle Mary McAdoo known to trip them up, just for the spaniel. height of him didn't stand a fetlock sport of the thing. When that fat "He's a dog" high. But he made growling My best memory of the summer man is leashed to a limping cocker sounds deep in his throat, ground of '73 is not of Darby, scourge-of spaniel whose long, sloppy ears Tourists from everywhere would his teeth together, stamped his horses; but of Darby O'Gill, still bear traces of being dangled in say, "Is he a boy or a girl!" foot, and finally barked his outrage comforter of the aging. the morning's egg, tourists know "Actually," I would answer, into gentle Dobbins' face, never Mary McAdoo is a little old lady there is more violence in the "he's a dog." once taking his eyes off the sudden with shopping bags who walks wingbeat of a noondrunk butterfly Tourists from everywhere really movements of the horse by which every morning down 42nd Street, than there is in all the chaste know how to spoil a dog by their he could have been kicked as a sorting out the trash and searching energies of a gentle preacher and questions, especially if that dog field goal over the Chrysler for treasures, in all the waste his kindly pet. already considers himself to be Building. contrainers she sees. l don't know 
what doorways she sleeps in at night, or where she goes in winter to escape the cold; but I am sure she is homeless, and I am certain
a latesurnmer's nightmare 
she can find of nothing of value in her search of the trash cans of 42ndjopz Street. There are many old ladies who live out of shopping bags and (Author's Note: While not with mold'?" would start taking things away sort out the trash in Manhattan, claiming any ties with Coleridge, I "That is untrue. Whatthe from me, like the use of my but all of them are strangers to me. will say that this story appeared to students refer to as mold is ac­right arm. Mary McAdoo would also be a me one night in a dream after I had tually a special type of­hold the light higher i cant see i stranger, if she and Darby O'Gill eaten at the North Dining Hall. I seasoning ... " knowi buried that salami had qot taken notice of each othi'!r. felt I had to write about it. The CHEAP CHEAP CHEAP somewhere around here She and Darby met while they dream since then has been with me REFRIGERATORS! The refrigerator doesn't work were both doing business at the night and day and it never seems to Dear Teresa, . very well, but it makes a great same trash container, she as a have any money so I have to buy How are you'? I'm sending you conversation piece. scavenger, he as a maker of two of everything. Little did I a penny for your thoughts hey hey you lousy mutt come puddles. When Mary McAdoo know the words "I'll take because thats all I have left back with my salami looked down and saw Darby O'Gill spaghetti" would have such a after paying the rent on my "One final point, sir. Many beside her, she dropped everything dramatic effect on my life.) ref riga tor. freshmen have reported that since she was carrying and swooped up here duckie duckie duckie "Students also claim the their parents left after the picnic the dog like a mother just united to 
"And at Notre Dame University vegetable supply is contaminated held during orientation, that they a child held in ransom. She sp(.'lke the food crisis worsened today with and point out the rising mortality have received no communication to him in words I could only half the start of the second meatless rate here." whatsoever from them for two understand, and he wagged his month there. The crisis began last "Yes, we have taken steps to months." stumpy tail as happily as though September when cafeteria of­investigate this. We have tried to wake up i heard someone outside the two of them had once lived as ficials, fearing rising meat costs, contact the man that sold us our say something about salami. litter-mates on the same puppy bought 200 tons of ground beef and canned vegetable supply to see if farm. used it to make a year's supply of he has received any other reports P.S. Please forgive me if l meatloaf which was to serve as the of mass poisoning resulting from never tickle your navel again. Summer-long friendship cafeteria's meat dish. Disaster his product. You see, we want to get that dog he's got the struck when, due to faulty make sure what we have here is salami. This was the beginning of a refrigerators rented out by the just not an attack of mass go to hell with the salami get the friendship that lasted all summer. 
Student Union Service Commission psychosomatic tendencies. dog Each morning, when I took Darbyand located on dorms throughout However, the salesman is (AN : At this point I woke up and out for his walk, Mary would be the campus, the entire electrical currently on an extended vacation felt an acute need to use the waiting somewhere in the neigh­system ofNotre Dame over-loaded in the central rainforests of bathroom. After that I spent a borhood, staring in a shop window, shutting off power for three days. Brazil..." restless night, partly because I had or sitting with her shopping bags Students claim it was during that thats all well and good but what to sleep on the floor because when I on the steps of the church. Then time that the stored meatloaf do we do when the snow comes and came back from the bathroom the three of us would convene in a 
spoiled and have refused to eat it. all the leaves are ~rone. Dream was asleep in my bed.) meeting. Mary would make love to 
Cafeteria officials deny the So I told them Teresa,that I meatloaf is spoiled and have said would pay half the rent then the meatloaf has always been the and half after I checked the color green ... " refrigator out to see if it 
i wonder how barbecue chip­worked. Seeing that my munk would taste roommate was electrocuted 
" ... For an update on this story when he plugged it in, I'm not let's switch to Mike Crowphone at too eager to pay them. Notre Dame. LOOK, IF WE PUT OUT 
"With me here I have John PHONEBOOKS OK, MAYBE Dough a cafeteria spokesman here THEY'LL FORGET ABOUT THE at Notre Dame. Mr. Dough, what REFRIGERATORS, OK. of student complaints that say the They came and told me that I meatloaf is spoiled and covered didn't p~y them soon, they 
Start your \Aoeekend at ... 
DAILY 
FlU
Telephone
Bulla Shed 
PARKING
233-1676 
Their deadly mission:
( Corner of Bulla and Juniper 
to crack the forbidden 
''It's the best
across from Grace Tower) 
island of Han! 
picture about young people 1have seen!" 
•·· 
BRUCE LEE
"JESUS CHRISf 
JOHN SAXON
SUPERSfAR" JIM KELLY 
A Universal Picture· Technicolor" '[!!] Todd·AOJ5
MASS AND DINNER 
of TV's THE WALTONS Starts Daily 
FEATURE STARTING TIMES! SHOW TIMES 
1:45. 3:45, 5:45, 
1:45-3:45-5:45 1:50-3:50-5:50
7:4~ & 9:45p.m. 
7:45-9:45 7:50-9:50
Friday 5:00 p.m. 

the dog, and he would submit with ecstasy to all her attentions. Sometimes she would give him little lunches from her shopping bag, and I wondered if she herself had eaten anything that day. Sometimes I offered her money, but she would always push my hand away and shake her head. 
Mary McAdoo never told me 
anything of herself. Her answers 
to all my questions were vague and 
indefinite, or she would pretend 
she was too deaf to understand me. 
But I got the impression that 
somewhere in her early life, there 
had been another cocker spaniel, 
and he must have looked a lot like 
Darby. 
Once she asked me if she could 
take O'Gill away with her, and 
bring him back on the following 
morning. She had some children in a park that she wanted him to meet, she said. I· did not dare to say yes. Among its other crimes, Manhattan has a long list of dognappings, and I couldn't trust the• dog I love to the doorways where Mary McAdoo sleeps. Her frailty was hardly enough to protect her own life, much less that of my cocker spaniel. I told her Darby and I would be happy to go visiting parks with her, but that I needed that dog at home when the darkness came. She was very disappointed, but the next day, I gave her a stuffed dog of her own, which. she hugged and stuck in her shopping bag. Every day or two, she would take it out again, and rub its nose against Darby's. 
Rain or shine, Mary McAdoo came daily to 42nd Street; and even if the dog-airing was several hours late, she would be waiting in a spot where she could watch the rectory door. From June until August, she hardly missed a morning; and now that I have left the city, I hear she still comes regularly to wait on the church steps, hoping to see again the little beast who offers her Jove. 
Darby O'Gill and his priest were one of the tourists attractions of Manhattan this summer. But in her his first summer in New York Darby was more than a tourist, for he also found a place among the street people of Times Square. 
Most of those street people don't care too much for policemen or their horses, either. 
6 
the observer Friday, September 7, 1973 
HPC & student govt 
Activities in the works 
by Bill Sabin !3taff Reporter 
Student government and the Hall Presidents Council 1re presently working together on a schedulf' of activities they will sponsor this vear. · Activities night next Monday at ' Lafortune Student Center is the first of these, to be followed by a ·•welcome back" picnic and carnival next Wednesday at dinner time. The picnic will be on the north quad and the carnival on the south. 
HPC chairman Fred Baranowski hopes to keep the two groups -,.,·orking in close cooperation throughout the school year. 
··our most important concern right now is a realignment with student government. Last year the effectiveness of both bodies was hurt by the split," he said. 
The HPC, whose funds come from student government has requested an activities allocation of $15,000. If approved, $10,000 would be given to the Hall Life Fund which would in turn distribute it among the halls, and $5.000 would be reserved for An Tostal. 
Facing the HPC are conflicts among hall-sponsored movies, conflicts among group-sponsored 
SMC directories 
nearly ready: 
split with ND 
Student telephone direct{tries at Saint Mary's are in the final stages of preparation and should be ready "by the end of this week," ac­cording to Dean of Students KathlE-en Mulaney. Until then, students can get information by calling the individual hall offices or Saint Mary's information at 232­3031. 
This year's directories mark another phase in the split between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. For the first time in several years, the two schools will publish com­pletely separate directories. Mulaney noted, however, that SMC administrative and service numbers will be listed in the final Notre Dame directory and also appear on the ND information cards distributed to students. 
Mulaney attributed the publication delay to computer problems. The first draft was ready by August 11, but since then the computer has twice failed to pick up corrections and manual corrections must be made. The directory is being prepared en­tirely by Saint Mary's itself rather than by an outside firm. 
For the first time, Mulaney said, nff-campus and day student numbers will be inciuded in the listings. All students will have their campus address, phone numuer, and post office box number lis.ed. 
ALL TYPISTS, NIGHT CON­TROLLERS, AND COM­PUGRAPHIC OPERATORS WHO WORKED LAST YEAR AND WANT TO WORK Tl-"'5 YEAR PLEASE CONTrn.. f HOWARD AT 1175 AS SOON AS POSSIBLE! 
! • 
t 
~ 
I 
•
•
l 
hot stands during football season, Three promotions have been and how to "foster the new spirit announced by Student Body that student affairs has im­President Dennis (H-man) plemented in the halls," according Etienne: Jim Roe to ad-to Baranowski. The HPC will meet ministrative assistant; Mary Clare at 6:00p.m. every Tuesday in St. Molidor to minister of Ed's chapel. propaganda; and Chris Netto to 
Participation in the Gallo wine academic commissioner, pending boycott in support of the United approval of the board of com­Farm Workers and formation missioners. of a r'ommittee to do research on Other student government plans the Age of Majority bill are on the presently underway were not student government agenda. released for publication. 
St. Mary's summer program a I success I despite class cuts 
by Leanne Jacques ''The Effect of Gamma Rays on 
Staff Reporter the Man-in-the Moon Marigolds," 
and "The Man Who Came to 
St. Mary's first summer Dinner." program was termed a "financial "We were most excited about the success" by William William Children's Theatre," Bain said. Hickey, vice president for "Our semi-arena gave students academic affairs, although two-intimate experience with the thirds of the course offerings were audience." The theatre for young cancelled. people produced "Pinocchio" and 
The summer session, lasting 10 "Johnny Moonbeam and the Silver weeks, included regular academic Arrow." courses, mini-courses, and Mini-courses and concentrated workshops. The pilot program workshops are not something new "gave the faculty something at Saint Mary's. The Biology different to try and offered an Department in 1971-1972 initiated opportunity for South Bend them for senior majors. Education residents to take advantage of St. majors receive credits for the Mary's facilities," said Hickey. semester they student teach. 
One of the more successftJl Hickey hopes to implement a workshops was the Glasser modified modular schedule for Workshop for professional freshmen within the next year. education majors, which presented Courses will be offered on either a an "open classroom" concept of concentratedfive-weekblock basis learning. Coordinated by Sr. orregular semester basis. Maria Concepta McDermott, In the future, Saint Mary's hopes education department chairman, to expand the summer program the program showed future with new courses and workshops. teachers how to create a classroom ,-.,...-,,-----,------­
environment in which students ~ 
d 
could pursue a wide variety of
learn:ng alternatives consistent with their own interests, needs, and aptitudes. 
The summer theatre workshop, directed by Dr. Reginald Bain, speech and drama department chairman, stressed the application of course work to a working theatre. Twenty students com­prised the summer company. The additional high school workshop 
covered acting, stagecraft, and 
en o~a'~ 
241 Dixieway North l mi. north of ND 
Guitars ' Accessories Music Instruction 
' Everything for the guitarist 
-'-..... ' . TONIGHT 
~ doors open 6:45~•• 288-7800•. 
7:00-9:15 p.m. 
every eve. J.fplOtL

PLEASE NOTE: /.D. REQUIRED!! 
must be 18or over! Mat. Sun. 2:15 
All clubs interested in participating in 
ACTIVITIES NIGHT 
on Monday Sept. 1 0 
must contact 
Student activities office 7308
• 
Mark Nishan ( 1 025) 
Mike Becker (7863) 
Before Saturday, Sept. 8 
mime. High school students ob-~============~:=============================~
served and served as apprentices 

to the regular summer troupe. Three adult productions were staged: "The Fantasticks," 
Jazz band tryouts to be held Sunday 
Auditions for the Notre Dame Jazz Band will be held on Sunday, September 9th at 2:00p.m.in the Washington Hall band room. 
Membership in NDJB is open to any student of the university. 
Students who play brasses, sax, piano, bass (both string and electric), guitar and drums should bring their instruments to the bandroom on Sunday. Previous jazz experience is not necessary; just ability on an instrument. 
Musicians who have a conflict 
for the Sunday auditions or who 
desire further information can call 
HOi.lltS: Mc»> -'l'Ul.:·S . TK~ • FRI 9 M~ ~,.~ f"M .vro -<>A~ 9 .~ l2 NOON 
COMPlfT,~ ~'.f>~AClf 
SHVlC•' ALL f', ~ O.l.'S 
•l!fsO:rr!Ol'r.> ~ONOPEC 

Knights of Columbus Present 

Friday, Sept. 7 Saturday, Sept. 8 Showings: 6,8, 10,12 Admission $1.00 Members free 


SMC social 
COIDIDlSSlOD 
kicks off year 
by Pattie Cooney 
St. Mary's social commission as its first activity of the year is presenting Me Natalie, starring Patty Duke in the Little Theatre of Moreau on September 29. 
The SMC social commission was formed last spring to initiate and plan movies, lectures, and in­dividual-group performances. It also serves as a central com­munications office where all ac­tivities are coordinated and as a liason between Notre Dame and SMC. 
The commission as a part of student government operates under Student Affairs· Com­missioner Joanne Garrett. Student government provides funds for the commission to work with. 
Social Commissioner Denise Peterson emphasized, "This com­mission is not an organization made up of elected officials. 
Rather, it is a group of volunteers ready to make St. Mary's campus a more active and organized com­munity." 
Any planned activity that does not go through the programming office should go through the social commissioner's office to be publicized and to prevent conflict in space. 
A public relations manager, 
combination lecture-movie 
manager and a special events 
manager are still needed. Anyone 
interested in applying for these 
positions should contact Denise 
Peterson in office 132 Regina 
North, phone 4017. 
Volunteers are needed, but are 
not expected to wor'lc full t1me. 
"We're very happy with the way 
things are going. Administrators, 
faculty, and students seem to be 
interested," commented Peterson. 
Contrary to previous reports 
published by the Social Com­
mission, there will not be an 
Observer office on the SMC 
campus. 
Tit lor tap 
WASHINGTON <UPil-When 
unconfirmed reports were 
published that the President had 
the Secret Service tap his brother 
Donald's telephone, one wag 
around the White House quipped: 
"He's his brother's beeper." 
R"iVEif f>A_'R:i<
........ ..,........... . 
_MIIMAWAICA A'!'"· U J.~YM• 
NOW SHOWING 
"DAZZLING" 
-LIFE 
P~RA'IIOl 'iT PICfl'Rt:S l"'"c"'' 
\HIH.HUt 
Thr 
FRANCO ZEFFIRELLI 
l'nldorlion or 
ROMEO 
~JULIET 

...' .. Friday, September 7, 1973 the observer 
~----------------------------------------~------~ 
LOST and found 
OST :Green clipboard folder· imprinted GReenlife, contains white pads-Morton Aboretuf!ll Quarterly· paper, lost sept. T between Morrissey Hall and Main gate. if found, pleasr contact 
Professor Horsvrugh· Ar chitecture· 7774 Roommate wanted for OC apt. 545 month+ utilties. 840 N. NO av. or call 283 3061. 
need a iob? We need a recep. tionist and an experienced pressman. hours 1-S Mon. Wed. Fri. Call Glen at 7047 or 1008. 
need to hire readers. please call 233-6437. Mark Maurer. 
HOUSEMATE wanted Spt. -May. Live with 4 NO senirrs.; Fur. nished, carpeted, newly redecorated , 3 bdrms., "2 liv. rms. (one up,one down) study, kitchen, bath, good neighborhood. 234-7589. 
to
35 Varieties of Pancakes 
share cost. Joe 3443 
Chicken -Steak -Sandwiches 
NOTICES 
Need money fast? Morrissey loan fund is now open . Borrow up to !150.00. Monday thru Friday
U.S. 31 (Dixieway} North Your Host 
ll:lS-12:15. Basement of 
Lafortune Student Center.
(Across from Hoiiday Inn) Bob Edwards '50 
A young man with hiseye to the future can look to Army Rare. 
Choose Army ROTC. The total time requirements of ROTC account for little in a student's workload and no commitment is made 
.;;: by you until the Junior Year. While you're looking at our program and deciding if we can offer you something, we will be looking at 'you. If we're both satisfied we can offer each other something,upoii gr.adua Uomyouwill receive a commission as a Second Lieutenant in the United States Army Reserve. Right now chances are good you'll only be required to serve on active duty for 3 to 6 months. 
When you go back to a civilian career, you'll have an edge. The management and leader~ hip ex­perienc.e offered through ROTC are not duplicated by any other college courses. And, proven in the crucible of officer experience, these are important assets for 
any young man looking forward to a successful future. Assets which are readilymarketable when seeking any position. 
Success in a life choice today demands more than ever the right preparation. Education, of coure, is essential. But the growing proportion of Americans going to college has lessened the diploma's role as an automatic entree to the best jobs. Employers are demanding something more. 
Army ROTC offers "something more" to the college man looking to expand his future. Call 283-6264 or 283-6265 
or visit the Army ROTC office Bldg. 5 SArmyRarc 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
FOR SALE 
Pandora's books 602 n. st. louis(at so. bend av)is open noon to midnight with big savings on new and used books. pandora's has used books for these cour. ses :american studies 357, 381; Mt 151; collegiate seminar 321, 441; gen humanities FS 180; econ 180 byrne; educ SOl kelsey; english 109, 332, 328, 180, 185, 313, 315, 371, 385, 392A ,416, 420A, 445, 452, 460, 34S, 487,525, S88, 679A, 317A, ; gen program 381, 441, 481, 281, ; 
gorvernment 180, 343; history 111, 115, 316, 371, 365, 390, law180;mgt 488; math lOS, 125-126; mod language 4400 hunt 435 gatto 450 hunt; nonviol 341; philosophy 101, 201, 245, 275, 281, 241, 2151, 254, ;psychology 111, 211, sociology 111 burman, 227 gessner; speech i80; theology 111 gorski; 117, 1202. 247, 311, 312, 313, 322, 324, 326, 445· 533; plus thousands of other titles . books bought sold and traded. 3 day special order service on used textbooks. new and used books at savings of up to 40percent. sunday editions of the new york times, the washington post. chicago tribune & sun times. city bus from nd stops in front of the store or a short walk: 7 blocks south west of the circle. 
1967 van , ford super econoline. Shag carpeting, naugahide bench, luma dome, good condition. phone 232-4335. 
1969 chevy impala gold 4 door sedan, good condition. call 283· 75S8 
refrigerator, in good condition. cheap, stove, adssorted odds and ends of furniture, bed, kit­chenware. call 23444S5 after 6.­
Custom hand made rustic fur­niture. Prices loW· no middle mj!n . Also Waterbeds. Call for ap­pointment. 234-4654. 
Roommate needed NO apts. 832 NO av. Apt. 2A No phone yet. 
Girls Group home needs mature , reliable couples PREFERAB LY WITHOUT CHILDREN (to act as substitute houseparents on week-ends. Paid position. Apply to Mrs. Carol Wilken at 233-9491 
RIDES WANTED 
ride wisconsin 14th oflSth 
Found: check book and football registration ticket, both under the name of Andre Patrone. Contact 114 Lyons Hall. 
FOR RENT 
1 or three room apt. 10 minute drive to N D. phone 288-9533 Julia 
H. Caine 

m~r <nnlnnial Jancakt .nusr 
"Enjoy a snack or 
~ 
dinner" 
WANTED 
Home for Labrador pup. Owner will feed, clean up. will pay. Call 283-1628, Ken.Will pay. 
Needed: 4 Gen . Ad;,ission tix to any home game except Air Force. Call John 282-1568. 
Friday, September 7, 1973
the observer 
Irish defensive outlook: 'We show promise there' 
by Vic Dorr Sports Editor 
Against Michigan State, they allowed no points and won. Against Miami, they allowed 17 points and won. Against Southern Cal, they allowed 25 points in three quarters, then surrendered 20 more in the final period, and lost. 
A~ainst Nebraska in the Orange Bov.l, they were dissected by Johnny Rodgers, David Humm, and Co., and lost, 40-6. 
"They" were Notre Dame's most recent defensive team, a largely rebuilt unit which suffered the brunt of last year's topsy­turvy campaign. They began as a young bunch--as a team with only four starters returning froro 1971. They began with an m1tested secondary and with a freshman in the front four. 
But they began in spectacular fashion. 
They shut out two of their first three opponents, and allowed, overall, only four touchdowns in the first four games of the '12 season. Then, in the fifth game, injuries caught up with the Irish 
"D", and their fortunes began to decline. The slide hit its nadir in the last two outings of the year, when Notre Dame surrendered 85 points, while scoring only 29. 
In '73, though, Irish coach Ara Parseghian will not need to per­form another rebuilding job. Seven of last year's starters return, and the ND coach is hoping that nucleus will carry his team back to its usual level of ef­ficiency: back to being one of the nation's leaders in team defense. 

"Notre Dame," said Par­seghian, "has been a leadrr in team defense seven of the nine years I've been here, and we hope to return to our usual quality of defense." Ara's '73 Irish, with seven veterans returning and with a number of promising newcomers, may have the tools to do just that. 
Notre Dame's defensive align­ment has been re-arranged during pre-fall practice--the Irish are now using a 4-3-4 spread, instead of the 4-4 of recent years--but the first line of the defensive team remains unchanged: the front four. 
There, line coach Joe Yonto has three starters returning. Tackle Kevin Nosbusch (6-4, 265) and ends George Hayduk (6-3, 255) and Jim Stock (6-3, 225) are back with a year's experience and seasoning. But sophomore Steve Niehaus has also returned, and the 6-5, 270­pounder has a firm grip on the other tackle slot. 
Niehaus, as a freshman, was a defensive standout in last year's first three games, games, but injured his knee in a midweek practice prior to the Missouri game, and did not play again. He made rapid progress during the off-season, though, and saw regular action during the· last weeks of spring drills. Now, he is in top form. 

'd 
Brian Doherty 
Interhall announcements 
The Office of Interhall Athletics has announced registration deadlines and participatioQ guidelines for its intramural sports program during the current fall semester. 
A fully organized and fully equipped tackle football program heads the list, but also included are team soccer and 16-inch softball events, and a pair of doubles tennis tournaments. 
It's the interhall football program, though, which keeps Mr. Dominic Napolitan's office busiest during the fall months. 
And this year should be no ex­ception. Each hall is asked to hold a team organizational meeting as soon as possible, and to submit a roster--including team coach and manager--to the interhall office immediately after that meeting. As soon as the roster has been submitted, the interhall office wm issue uniforms and equipment. 
But no student will be allowed to play, and no uniforms will be given out after the deadline date of September 12. 
Practices and games will he held on the fields south and east of t'1e ACC, and each team will be ex­pected to practice at least three times per week and to have practiced for at least two weeks prior to its opening game: 
A physician will be in attendance at all games, but the physical welfare of the interhall football player is the prime responsibility of the athlete himself. The player is responsible for his own injuries and medical bills. 
A fall soccer tournament is also being arranged by the I-H office, and it has been given an entry deadline of September 24. Teams will be formed by halls, and all students--excepting members of the soccer club--are eligible. 
Team captains will be notified, once all rosters. have been sub­mitted, about the scheduling, dates, and times of the tournament games. 
The 16-inch softball tournament will be a slow pitch, sinll!E! elimination affair. It is open to all undergraduates, and players need not live in the same hall to be on the same roster. 
Each roster--of at least 16 players--must contain a team name and a team captain, and the tourney will be limited to the first 32 teams to apply. The entry deadline is September 19. 
Two days earlier, September 17, has been set as the entry deadline for the two interhall tennis tour­naments. One is a women's doubles event, which will be played in best of three sets, with USLTA rules. Games in the distaff event must be played on a weekly basis. 
The other is a novice-open doubles tournament which is open to all male undergrad students. 
Again, the tourney must be played in best of three sets by USLTA rules, and the games in this event will be played at a time mutually acceptable to both players. 
In both tournaments, partners must come from the same hall, and the winning team will be expected to submit the match scores. 
For further information on any event sponsored by the interhall department contact the I-H staff in office C-4 at the ACC or call 6100. 
"Niehaus causes things to happen," said Parseghian. "His quickness forces the quarterback to make quicker decision and Co rush his timing. Steve is a natural football player." 
Yonto has also found back-up strength to go with last year's experience, :::nd he's found much of it in the freshman class. A pair of defensive ends, Ross Browner (6­3,223) and Willie Fry (6-4,225) have earned spots on the number-two defense, and they ,along with junior tackle Mike Fanning (6-6,270), may erase 1972's depth difficulties. 
'73's biggest rebuilding job must come at linebacker, where two of last year's starters and one top reserve graduated. But a pair of last year's monogram winners-­Drew Mahalic (6-4, 220) and Greg Collins (6-3, 228)--have given coach George Kelly a nucleus around which to build, and junior Sherm Smith (6-2, 210) and senior Gary Potempa (6-0, 234) have joined in the competition for t"he three linebacking positions. 
Behind those four, Kelly also has depth, though not as much as in past seasons. 
But if the linebacking unit has to be rebuilt, the deep defense does not. Three of the four positions in the deep secondary have been filled by returning starters since the beginning of spring drill~. 
Defensive captain Mike Townsend, who led the nation in interceptions last year, senior Tim Rudnick, and junior Reggie Barnett have held their positions since well into the '72 campaign and the biggest question facing coach Paul Shoults is filling the vacant fourth spot. 
Junior Mike Parker, a compact 

NDcontinues fall tune-ups 
by Grrg ('organ 
Like a high-powered Indy 500 race car getting in shape for its big Memorial Day showing, the Irish football team continued its tuning process for the home opener against Northwestern with a full scale scrimmage Wednesday afternoon. 
The final score was a lopsided 30­7 in favor of the first unit, but most significant were some encouraging indications concerning the defensive unit which last year showed signs of inconsistency This encouragement camewith the addition of three talented fresh­men--defensive ends Ross Browner and Willie Fry and strong safety Luther Bradley who all played a good deal of the afternoon with the first team. Although still green after only ten days on the Irish squad, Browner, Fry and Bradley proved that what they lacked in experience, they made up for in speed, quickness and deter­mination. 
Parseghian emphasized the fact that there were no significant personnel changes of any kind and that he just wanted to see how the three freshme.n would fit in with the first unit. 
"It was si>nply a matter of scrimmaging people against stronger people, merely a matter ot matching personnel," noted head coach Parseghian. 
He went on to explain, "We were just looking at Browner, Fry and Bradley. We wanted to see what the freshmen could do with the first unit. We already know what <George) Hayduk and (Jim) Stock can do .. " 
Nonetheless, Browner, Fry and Bradley are running strong with the second unit so the depth problem that had presented itself last spring has definitely been improved. 
While the freshmen situation gives Irish fans a reason to be happy, the overall defensive position of the team at this point in fall preparation is also generally encouraging. 
"There's no doubt that we're Thr Irish defense stacks up Missouri's Don Johnson in a· short 
yardage situation. but hard-hitting performer, has game and averaged 43.2 yards in 13 been running with the first unit kicks. since. the conclusion of spring Competition for the vacant spots practice, but he'sbeen pressed this on the defensive platoon has been fall by freshman Luther Bradley, a rugged, and has continued through 6-3, 190-pounder from Muncie. late spring and early fall. And 
A pair of sophomores, Bob now, two weeks before the season Zanot--who saw time with last opener, the competition is still year's varsity, and Randolph heated. And because of that Payne, have been impressive with competition, the Irish "D" has the second defense, and they, also, made some big advances. Bigger, could see action in the deep even then those made during '72's secondary. rebuilding year. 
The defensive team, like its "We're still matching personnel, offensive counterpart also has a and looking at different people kicking specialist. Punter Brian with different units," said Par­Doherty has recovered from post-seghian after yesterday's Orange Bowl knee surgery and scrimmage. "But I'd have to say returned for his final season with that, right now, we're ahead of ND, but the two-year veteran has where we were defensively a year had his share of competition from ago. soph Tony Brantley, who punted "We are showing some promise for both teams in the Blue-Gold there." 
ahead of where we were last year at this time defensively," Par­seghian offered. "We show some promise there." 
The number one defensive squad started out Wednesday with Hayduk and Stock at end, Steve Niehaus and Kevin Nosbusch at tackle with Drew Mahalic, Sherm Smith, Gary Potempa and Greg Collins all seeing action at linebacker, co-captain Mike Townsend, Reggie Barnett, Mike Parker and Rim Rudnick made up the secondary. 
There's a lot more than just promise when it comes to the kicking game, namely Bob Thomas and Brian Doherty. Thomas hit two field goals from 47 and 44 yards out, and before the scrimmage was hitting con­sistently from 50 yards out. He also handled kickoff duties in place of Cliff Brown, and although his kicks weren't as long as Brown's, Thomas was nonetheless effective. 
Punter Brian Doherty full)' recovered from last. spring's kner operation, boomed several 45+ yarders including one coffin corner kick that went out on the one. 
Parseghian was obviously well pleased with that facet of the• workout. "Thomas and Doherty: substantiated our opinion that our' kicking game is good." 
However, one thing that Par­seghian hasn't been pleased with so far this fall is the performance of the offensive unit. 
"We improved over Saturday's scrimmage but we're not nearly where we should be. We're still a little leg weary but once we get into 

BICYCLE CENTER 
1437 Portage Ave. Phone 287-1673 
Ask for student discounts 10 SPEED RACERS Hours: Daily 9:30-5:30 Mon. till 8:30 ON HAND FOR IMMEDIATE We service all makes DELIVERY! 
shape I expect things to come around. Right now, the passing game is definitely the weakest part of our game." 
Parseghian made the ob­servation after quarterbacks Tom Clements and Cliff Brown could manage only 72 yards in eight completions between them during Wednesday's workout. 
But while the passing game may not have been up to par, Clements and Brown were still able to move the number one offense into the end zone. Clements engineered drives of 55 and 65 yards against the number three defense and scored himself from the two against the number two defense after Bob Zanot blocked a punt. 
Brown directed the number one "0" to a 55 yard touchdown with fullback Wayne Bullock going in from the five. Bullock and half­backs Eric Penick and Art Best each picked up 50 yards on the afternoon and along with senior Gary Diminick, sophomore Russ Kornman, junior AI Samuels, and freshman AI Hunter give the Irish an abundance of swift running backs for the upcoming season. 
The team will work out this afternoon in preparation for their third scheduled scrimmage in less than a week this Saturday. 
Hockey notice 
Anyone interested in playing varsity hockey this year should report to Gate 2 at the Athletic and Convocation Center at 7 p.m. on Monday, September 10. 
