On The Inside 
Ticket Exchange ... page 10 Byzantine Rite ... page 4 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VIII, No. 32 Wednesday, October 24, 1973 
Nixon surrenders tapes to Sirica 
by Wesley G. Pippert 
Washington--President Nixon, beset by a crippled administration and growing demands for his im­peachment, abruptly agreed Tuesday to hand the Watergate tapes over to Chief U.S. District Judge John 
J. Sirica. 
Nixon's stunning decision to abandon his three­month battle to keep the tapes secret was announced in Sirica 's hushed courtroom by White House con­stitutional lawyer Charles Alan Wright, who said: 
"There would have been those who would have said the President was defying the law. But this President does not defy the law." 
Legal sources said they believed Nixon gave up the fight to avoid a contempt of court citation. Other White House sources said the Presidet's position was seriously damaged by Elliot L. Richardson's remarks after he resigned in protest as a attorney general. 
Only a few hours earlier, the House Democratic leadership ordered an inquiry to determine whether there were sufficient grounds to start formal im­peachment proceedings against the President. 
House Democratic Leader Thomas P. O'Neill said the inquiry would go through, although Nixon had "dampened" any chances of eventual impeachment by the House. 
In early afternoon, Wright announced Nixon had changed his mind and would produce the nine Watergate tapes and other presidential documents sought by former special prosecutor Archibald Cox. Under his ruling of Aug. 29, Sirica would inspect the tapes privately to determine which should be sub­mitted to the federal Watergate grand juries. 
Wright assured Sirica the tapes would be furnished "as expeditiously as possible ... a matter of a few days." Sirica said he was "very happy" with Nixon's decision. 
The President's attorney said Nixon's compliance with Sirica's order-upheld recently by the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals--would be "full...in all respects." 
Under the appeals court's ground rules, the President 
could withhold any materials dealing with national defense or foreign relations, but that "all other items" must be turned over. 
When the appeals court upheld Sirica, the President gave up the idea of a historic appeal of the con­stitutional confrontation to the Supreme Court. In­stead, he proposed a compromise plan under whch he would give the courts and the Senate Watergate Comrnittee a personally written summary of the tapes, to be verified. by Sen. John C. Stennis (D-Miss.) a-fter listening secretly to the full actual tapes. 
The President had Cox fired Saturday when he refused to obey Nixon's companion order to halt all further court efforts to obtain the tapes themselves. 
Attoryney General Elliot L. Richardson and Deputy Attorney William D. Ruckelshaus promptly resigned in protest. 
Cox wanted the full tapes of Nixon's Watergate­related conversations with former White House and political advisers for possible evidence of perjury and obstruction of justice in the high level coverup of the June 17, 1972, break-in at Democratic national headquarters. 
Former White House counsel John W. Dean III told the Senate committee last June he believed Nixon was aware of the coverup as early as Sept. 15, 1972. When the committee accidentally learned on July 16 that tapes of that Nixon-Dean meeting and other presidential conversations existed, both Cox and the committee sued Nixon in Sirica's court to obtain them. 
Wright said Nixon was determined to keep the tapes secret as recently as Monday, but then changed his mind. "We had hoped that this kind of solution would end the consitutional crisis," Wright said, referring to the compromise tapes proposal. "But events over the weekend made it very apparent that it would not." 
Nixon's stunning self-reversal on the tapes did nothing to slow down the House Democrats' decision to start a preliminary inquiry into a possible im­peachment proceeding against the President. 
"The issues go far beyond the tapes question," said House Democratic Leader O'Neill, Jr. He referred to "the payments to buy the silence of Watergate defendants, the Ellsberg break-in and whether the Cox firing was an obstruction of justice." 
Even before Wright's surprise announcement, Sirica was known to have been considering the possibility of citing Nixon for contempt of court if he rejected the compromise plan the President abandoned Tuesday. 
Wright--trembling with excitement-told reporters tha even if Sirica had accepted the compromise, Nixon decided he must surrender the actual tapes because otherwise, he would appear to have been breaking the law. 
Sirica adjourned the hearing without commenting on suggestions from the president of the American Bar 
Association and others that he appoint a new, in­dependent special prosecutor for the Watergate in­vestigation to succeed Cox. 
The House Judiciary Committee was given the job of holding an inquiry into possible impeachment proceedings. 

President Nixon, facing possible impeachment, agreed to surrender the Watergate tapes. 
Deiends conidentiality 
Macheca denies wiretaps, undercover agents 
Speaking before the Hall Presidents Council last night, Dean of Students John Macheca expressed his alarm over the great number of rumors that are cir­culating around campus suggesting that his office has made use of wire taps and undercover work to enforce discipline. 
"These rumors are completely un­founded," asserted Macheca. "There is absolutely no place for such action as wire taps or undercover agents on this campus, and there will never be." 
"The only use of the Centrex telephone system regarding disciplinary measures that I have ever heard of was to trace abusive phone calls. And those occasions were more a matter of chance than of planning," he added. 
Macheca explained that most students 
who have committed violations request he 
keep their cases confidential. Because of 
his attempt to comply with this request he 
cannot release reports on individual cases. 
"The problem of defending the con­
fidentiality of the students," admitted 
Macheca, "is that it leads to the spreading 
of wild rumors." 
Macheca also explained his philosophy 
of developmental discipline: "one in which 
primary consideration is given to where 
the young person is trying to go and how to help him get there." 
"Discipline is a problem of student growth and development," he continued. "it is not a police problem. That is why I work on it from the Office of the Dean of Students not from the Office of Campus Security. In almost all discipline problems I have tried to work closely with the hall rectors, resident assistants and anyone involved who could make responsible input." 
Macheca states that one of the major problems he has faced as Dean of Students is developing a flexible system of punitive measures for dealing with violations. "When I first accepted this position there are only two alternatives: probation, which amounted to nomore than a verbal warning, or one-semester suspension, which is the other extreme just short of expulsion." 
"My new philosophy of disciplinary probation, which includes the removal of cer.tain privileges held by the violator as a student, is based upon my theory that the majority of students take for granted the privileges that are given to them at this university. If a student abuses his privileges, he automatically puts himself 
•nto a position of losing those privileges." 
Macheca noted as a possible alternative to the restriction of attending athletic events, which is presently being used, 
the restriction of using the Irish Pub that is to be built in the La Fortune Student Center. He also pointed out that he uses disciplinary probation only in those cases involving what he considers serious offenses. 
Several hall presidents at the meeting asked the Dean if he did not think it were better to make violators spend time working at Logan Center or tutoring children from South Bend than to prohibit their attendance of athletic events which are one of the few sources of social ex­pression available to the students on campus. 
Macheca answered by reaffirming his belief that it is a "growth and learning experience to be forced to realize that you have privileges that should not be taken for granted." He added that in most of the cases where a restriction of privileges has been used, the violators fully accepted the punishment as a consequence of their offense. 
Macheca did admit that more alter­natives are needed to deal with violators effectively and on an individual basis. "I am presently spending a great deal of time in South Bend trying to establish possible work-programs. I am also considering the idea of temporary suspensions instead of full on-semester suspensions. 
Phil Byrne, president of Alumni, sugested that a group of responsible students be organized to help the Dean "brainstorm and evaluate new alter­natives." Macheca said he readily welcomes such assistance. 
When questioned about the recent drug raids that his office has conducted, 
Macheca said he did not understand why action taken against the use of drugs and drug pushers should cause as much wide­spread distress as is reported. Referring to the concern that individual's rights to privacy are being infringed, the Dean assured the presidents that "no university official would enter a room unless there was very good reason to believe that a violation was being committed." As evidence of this policy Macheca pointed out that he has yet to enter a room where the suspected violation was not actually being committed. 
In other business before the HPC, Chuck Cardillo announced that Keenan Hall will hold a pep rally for the USC game on Thursday at 9:30p.m. at the old Biology Building. Tom Parise will be Master of Ceremonies. Coach Yonto, Tom Clements, Greg Collins, and Steve Niehaus will also be present. 

Wednesday, October 24, t9n
1. the observer 


briefs 
Miami Beach--Maritime union leaders said Tuesday their mem­bers will be ordered to boycott handling of goods and ships bound for the Soviet Union by Wednesday night or Thursday unless the Middle East fighting ends and the Arabs resume oil shipment to the United States. 
Washington--Democratic and Republican Senate leaders urged 
their  colleagues  Tuesday  not  to  hold  the  vice  presidential  
nomination  of  Gerald  Ford hostage  to  a11y  controversy  over  
Watergate.  

Hong Kong--North Vietnamese peace negotiator Le Due Tho has turned down the 1973 Nobel Peace Prize, which he shared with U.S. Secretary of State Henry Kissinger ,oecausehe said the Paris peace settlement on Vietnam has not: been fully implemented, the Viet­nam News Agency reported Tuesday. 
Saigon--Fighting in South Vietnam hit a six-week high Tuesday with combat especially heavy along Highway 4, the "rice road~' for Saigon to the Mekong Delta, the Saigon high command said. 
Boulder, Colo.-Businessman Robert Lange, Sr. was ordered by a juvenile court judge Tuesday to donate $2,000 to a local boys club as punishment for helping his nephew cheat to win the 1973 National Soap Box Derby. 

Homecoming sales disappointing 
by Ken Bradford Staff Reporter 
Tickets for the 1973 Homecoming dance are still not selling well, according to Rich Guiltinan, the co-ordinator of Homecoming events. 
About 265 tickets have been sold so far, most of which were sold in ticket packages with tickets to the Southern California football game. 
Guiltinan announced that he has 

received permission to order kegs of beer for the dance. The number of kegs to be ordered will be deter­mined as soon as an accurate count is made.of people planning to at­tend the dance. 
I 
B 

Guiltinan said he "is hoping for a big pick-up in sales" by the end of the week. The tickets will be on sale until Friday afternoon cmd will not be sold at the door. 
The biggest factor in the disappointing ticket sale is, ac­cording to Guiltinan, that "students are really confused about the dance." He stated that the dance will not be a square dance and the band playing at the Guiltinan also defended the $6 Voll said. She mentioned the 
price per couple for the dance, success of last year's homecoming saying that the Student Union "will dance which used the Prohibition still lose money on the dance." theme. 
Gina Voll, the Student Union Social Commissioner, suggested that the slow ticket sales may be due to the fact that students were on vacation just a week before the dance. 
"The students may not invite their friends down for the 
dance, "Windjammer," plays a homecoming dance !>O soon after a variety of rock songs. vacation," she said. Also, contrary to a widespread Voll added t~at m~ny other rumor, there will be no armory , s~u?ents are havmg their ~aren~ 
PandoraS 00 CO ec.S il11j)eac~e1lf j)efifiOllS 
party during the Homecoming weekend 
ks · 11 f 
by David Kaminski Staff Reporter Pandora's Books, located at 602 
N. St. Louis Blvd. will collect petitions for the impeachment of President Richard Nixon until Sunday, October 28, when Pan­dora's will send the collected signatures to U.S. Senator Birch Bayh in Washington· D.C. 
According to niCk Smith, manager of Pandora's, the petition is not a formal document. "It simply states that the undersigned think that President Nixon should be impeached. Anyone can take a sheet of paper and collect signatures," Smith said. 
The petition can be signed at Pandora's until Sunday. Also, members of the Notre Dame community will be circulating the petitions. 
Nixon's surprise decision yesterday to release the presidental tapes to Federal Judge John Sirica, thereby heading off a confrontation with Congress and the courts, doesn't affect the petition drive. 

"This new development doesn't change anything," Smith com­mented. "Why should it?" 
Pandora's Books also helped in a petition drive last school year, then m protest of radio station WRJBR 
FM when the station changed its programming from progressive rock to top forty. 
The group that grew out of the WRBR protest. the People for Progressive Radio '• met last night with owners and managers of WRBR at the Unitarian Church in South Bend. 
Smith predicted the meeting would produce a compromise, where WRBR would divide their broadcast format between top forty and progressive rock. 
SIX PACKS ON SALE 
(must move 300 cases!) 
RIDICULOUS PRICE 
today thru Saturday
, 


Ca Out·\; 1003 ·Notre'Dam•• Ave;· 
VISit for the Southern Cahforma football game and this may be decreasing the students' interest in 
thedance. 
Thethemeofthedance, "A Barn Dance," is not the predominant fa 
1 

.·an·..:ampus tada.y 
9:05 a.m.--library talk, by joyce herndon. 
1:15 & 2:30 p.m.--film, "huey--one of the co-founders of the black panther party explains his life and black militant philosophy," basement of cce, also at 7:30p.m. in the black cultural arts center, Iafortune. 
3 p.m.--colloquium, "Magneto striction and magneto elastic; behavior in 1-X Dy2-x Cu17 compounds (X equals 0, two-thirds, four-thirds, 2)" by 
A.E. Miller, room 5, engineering bldg. 
3:25 
p.m.--library talk, by kathy blackstead. 

3:25 
p.m.--lecture, "selectivity of C02 for various hydrocarbon systems," agit a. kulkarni, room 269, chem. engineering bldg. 


3:30 p.m.--colloquium, "Nuclear material safeguards," dr. manuel a. kanter, room 303, engineering bldg. 
a: 15 p.m.--concert, christopher parkening, classical guitarist, washington hall, admission $4, $3. 
9:30 p.m.--talk, digger phelps, stanford chapel. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the stuaents of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S8 per semester ($14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

WE'RE YOUR STORE IN 
Cl) 
-t 
-< 
r­
m 
~ 
., 
;a
-
n 
m 
> 
z 
c 
-t 
m 
~ 
Cl) 
$25 

buys apair of handsome Hockanum plaid slacks. Tailored by Kazoo to look, fit and feel right. In 5 new colorings; with or without cuffs. A good price on a great slack. 
\ . ~~·T : t -I ' 






Chance of impeachment wanes 
WASHINGTON (UPI) House Democratic leaders de­cided today to explore possible impeachment proceedings against President Nixon, but odds against impeachment ap­parently rose sharply when Nixon later agreed to turn over his secret Watergate tapes to a federal judge. 
The Democratic floor leader, Rep. Thomas P. O'Neill of Massachusetts, said after Nixon's surprise decision was announced in the courtroom of Judge John J. Sirica that the preliminary impeachment in­quiry should go on, but said "there's no question he's dampened" chances of im­peachment by his action. 
The President's decision to 

Opinions on solution to constitutional crisis differ 
by Tom KruczeK Staff Reporter 
The unbelievable chain of events originating in Washington, D.C. has left the Notre Dame com­munity with differing opinions concerning the constitutional crisis created by the Watergate in­vestigation. 
As members of the house and senate, as well as authorities from this university, were calling for impeachment proceedings to be initiated against President Nixon, the chief executive made an about­face and decided to release the controversial Watergate tapes to Court of Appeals Judge John Sirica to stem the rising tide of natonal unrest within the country. 
This decision left the house and senate members with deep thinking to do on the eve of the day when impeachment proceedings were sent to the Judiciary Com­mittee for consideration. 
Speculating on what the congress would do a bout the President's earlier refusal to hand the tpes over to the court, Howard Goldstein, director of the Center for Civil Rights stated, '-'The president's conduct in a number of areas such as Watergate, his financial transactions, his tax returns, the financing of his San Clemente White House as well as the dismissal of Archibald Cox and the resignation of the attorney 

Richardson endorsed efforts to secure tapes 
By MIKE FEINSILBER WASHINGTON (UPI) -Elliot 
L. Richardson Tuesday en­dorsed prosecution efforts to secure the White House Water­gate tapes, but declined to advocate or oppose impeach­ment of President Nixon for firing special prosecutor Ar­chibald Cox. 
The former attorney general, who resigned Saturday rather than carry out Nixon's order to discharge Cox, told a nationally televised news conference that the American people must decide whether Nixon should remain in office. 
"On the fairness with which you do so may well rest the future well-being and security of our beloved country," he said, looking into the television cameras that faced him in the Justice Department Great Hall. · For two minutes, he was prevented from speaking by applause . and cheers from give up his fight to keep his tapes secret was welcomed by many members of Congress ­as well as others. On the New York Stock Exchange, the key Dow-Jones industrial average shot up 16 points after the announcement. 

Under the appeals court's ground rules, the President could withhold any materials dealing with national defense or foreign relations, but that "all 

other  items"  must  be  turned  
over.  
When  the  appeals  court  

upheld Sirica, the President gave up the idea of a historic appeal of the constitutional confrontation to the Supreme Court. Instead, he proposed a compromise plan under which 

general (Elliot Richardson) calls for a sweeping inquiry. This inquiry should be in regards to the question, is the president above the law, and if he is then the country is in a serious situation." Speaking prior to Nixon's release of the tape~ Glickstein added that "His actions have merited the initiation of impeachment proceedings within the House of Representatives." 
When informed later in the day as to the President's actions, Glickstein reiterated that the President's conduct in Watergate and his delay tactics with the tapes along with he dismissal of Cox and his broken commitments to Congress, still warrant the im­peachment proceedings. 
Father Theodore Hesburgh, president of he university, was more cautious in his approach to the prospective impeachment proceedings. "The situation at the present time is extremely fluid and I think that we should wait and see what will happen in the next weeks. Right now here is some unfinished business that must be attended to. An independent special prosecutor must be named to carry on the Watergate in­vestigation." Hesburgh added that Nixon "may be off the hook for the 
moment," in referring to the impeachment proceedings. 
The next move in the in­
vestigation into the Watergate 
burglary and break-in will be up to 

Justice Department employes who served under Richardson 
for  his  five  months'  tenure  
there.  His  wife,  Anne,  at  his  
side,  beamed.  

Richardson wholeheartedly defended Cox, whose refusal to accept Nixon's compromise on the issue of access to the Watergate tapes and other White House documents led to his firing Saturday night and demands in Congress that Nixon be removed from office. 
"I would have done what he has done," Richardson said. 
At the same time, he declined to call Nixon's action a violation of a court order. Richardson rejected the view, which he said he found in the White House and among Repub­licans elsewhere, that Cox was out "to get Richard Nixon." 
He called Cox "true, siacere; genuine" in his desire to 
• ~ fl I, t ~ •1 I, 
(continued on pdge IO)' 

he would give the courts and the Senate Watergate commit­tee a personally written sum­mary of the tapes, to be verified by Sen. John C. Stennis, D-Miss., after listening secretly to the full actual tapes. 
The President had Cox fired Saturday when he refused to obey Nixon's companion order to halt all further court efforts to obtain the tapes themselves. Attorney General Elliot L. Richardson and Deputy Attor­ney William D. Ruckelshaus promptly resigned in protest. 
Cox wanted the full tapes of Nixon's Watergate-related con­versations with former White House and political advisers for possible evidence of perjury and obstruction of justice in the 
Judge John Sirica after he will be presented with the tapes of presidential conversations. As Hesburgh stated, the next few weeks wil be extremely crucial to Nixon's fate in office. 
(THE OBSERVE/fJ 
Impeachment views 1 
Wednesday, October 24, 1973 Page 3 
· 
11 .. ~.e.~~\~~ .i~t~~n~tio,nal t~mpes~,~s!t~de.••.t~-e~o)'sll}qo,ttl'sa(ling oi(St. JosepiJ's.LaJte • •. , ' :. 
' ', " 
.... "·'·~·· -··· ' ' •..••••••••••••••• ,,,,~~ .. ,,,,,.,,,, 1\t\tl\-llll•l
' ' ' 
high level coverup·of the June 17, 1972, break-in at Democratic national headquarters. 
Former White House counsel John W. Dean III told the Senate committee last June he believed Nixon was aware of the coverup as early as Sept. 15, 1972. When the committee accidentally learned on July 16 that tapes of that Nixon-Dean meeting and other presidential conversations existed, both Cox and the committee sued Nixon in Sirica's court to obtain them. 
Wright said Nixon was determined to keep the tapes secret as recently as Monday, but then changed his mind. 
"We had hoped that this kind of solution would end the consti tu tiona! crisis," Wright said, referring to the compro­mise tapes proposal. "But events over the weekend made it very apparent that it would not." 
Nixon's stunning self-reversal on the tapes did nothing to slow down the House Democrats' decision to start a preliminary inquiry into a possible impeach­ment proceeding against the President. 
"The issues go far beyond the tapes question," said House Democratic Leader O'Neill Jr. He referred to "the payments to buy the silence of Watergate defendants, the Ellsberg break­in and whether the Cox firing was an obstruction of justice." 
Even before Wright's surprise announcement, Sirica was known to have been considering the possibility of citing Nixon for contempt of court if he rejected the compromise plan the President abandoned Tues­day. 
Wright -trembling with ex­citement -told reporters that even if Sirica had accepted the compromise, Nixon decided he must surrender the actual tapes because otherwise, he would appear to have been breaking the law. 
Sirica adjourned the hearing without commenting on sugges­tions from the president of the American Bar Association and others that he appoint a new independent special prosecuto; for the Watergate investigation to succeed Cox. 
The House Judiciary Commit­tee was given the job of holding an inquiry into possible im­peachment proceedings. 



Wednesday, October 24, 1973 
'('>.

the observer 




Byzantine rite activated at N.D. 


1723 S. Bend Avenue 272-9800 
by Jane Thornton Staff Reporter 
"There's no way a Byzantine priest can serve a liturgy by himself," says Fr. Robert Ke~by, the only Byzantine Melkite pnest between Akron and Chicago. "He must have a congregation. Thus, organization of Byzantine liturgy means organization of a com­munity who will sustain the 
liturgy." 
Assistant History Professor Kerby and Fr. Andrew Ciferni, assistant rector of Holy Cross Hall, invite all students interested in a regular or occassional celebration of the Eucharist in the Eastern rite to attent an organizational meeting Thursday, October 25, at 7:30p.m. in the Halfway House of Holy Cross Hall. 
Other students "wishing to 
broadem their perspective in 
regard to other Christian 
traditions of liturgy and church 
life" are also welcome, Ciferni 
said. 

In a recent interview, Kerby I than didactic. elaborated on the differences · The rough· Frankish era bred between the Byzantine and Roman the plain and simple Roman rites, and his efforts and the dif-liturgy, Kerby claims the ficulties encountered in activating Byzantine imperial liturgy has the Byzantine rite on campus. one thing the western rite lack!>, 
Kerby received both a B.A. and "urban grandeur which can be 
M.A. from Notre Dame in History very important for urban people and American History,, respec-who lack a sense of grandeur." tively, and a Ph.D. in American Kerby maintains the Byzantine ·History and British History from liturgy is highly structured and Columbia University . He loosely structured at the same specializes in nineteenth century time, terming it "an ornately 
U.S. political history. He has ritualized dialogue. The name of studied at Fordham, Union, St. every person there is mentioned, Joe's, St. Basle's and was ordained so familiarity is built into the in Cairo. Publications include The ritual. We don't make a sharp CONFEDERATE Invasion of New distinction between layman and Mexico and Kerby Smith's Con-priest. People never show on time federacy' and walk around during the ser-
The Melkite clergyman asserted . vice,.. he said. 
Boyle found mentally competent in murder· 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -Fo~mer United Mine Workers President 
W.A. 
"Tony" Boyle was declared mentally competent Tuesday to stand trial o~ cha~ges ~e conspired to murder h~s umon nval, Joseph 

A. 
Yablonski 


A government psychiatric report, which was not contested by Boyle's attorney, said, however, there "is a definite possibility that Mr. Boyle might attempt suicide in the future." 
Boyle, 71, has been hospitalized since Sept. 24 after taking an overdose of barbituates. 
He had been scheduled to appear in court the next day for a hearing on extraditing him to Pittsburgh where a federal grand jury in­dicted him in the slaying of Yablonski, his wife, and daughter. 
U.S. Magistrate Arthur Burnett that most "Roman Catholics ar1e probably scared of the different Byzantine liturgy. "When I say th•e Roman Mass, it's very different 

and strange. I'm not saying that one liturgy is better than another." He claims this fear to worship in another rite shows "A lack of appreciation of how catholic the Catholic church is." 
What are the differences bet­
ween the Byzantine and Latin 
rites? 
"First of all, nobody in his right mind preaches a rite," cautioned Kerby. "What we do is preach the gospel, that the Incarnation is a reality and Jesus did enter i~to o~; lives. It can be expressed m dll:­ferent. ways. 
Cultures created the different 
ritual strains. Since the Latin ril:e 
emerged in a peter ate society, the 
Latin celebrant says Mass by 
reading the "Big Red Book", as 
Kerby termed it. The Byzantine 
rite, on the other hand, arose in an 
illiterate society and the readings 
are rare, and the liturgy tends to 
be poetical and repetitive, rather 
, rescheduled the hearing for Nov. 9. It had previously been reset for Wednesday. 
Boyle's attorney, Charles Moses, told Burnett that Boyle would not contest the government proceeding to have him tran­
sferred to Pittsburgh for arraignment. 
(continued on page 7) 
RESEARCH 
Thousands of Topics $2.75 per page Send for your up-to-date, 160-page, 
mail order catalog. Enclose $1.00 to cover postage (delivery time is 1 to 2 daysl. 
RESEARCH ASSISTANCE, INC. 11941 WILSHIRE BLVD., SUITE #2 LOS ANGELES, CALIF. 90025 (213) 477-8474 or 477-5493 

Now Available-Distillery Logo T-Shirts -only $2.00 
14 BRANDS OF TEQUILA 
-. 
@ Indiana Bell 
Dbserver lnsitahl 
Contrasting the experimental Roman liturgies with the tradional Byzantine liturgy, Kerby declared "as long as we (Byznatines) do the liturgy in the context of liturgy, the freedom is not as terrifying as in the Roman liturgy." 
During the innovative Roman Catholic liturgy, he charged that, "No one ·,ut the priest knows what's r::&.1g on. We find freedom of expression within our ritual because we don't worry about what's coming next." 
Eschatology, or the theology of 

. the afterlife, presents another area where the rites differ. Kerby pointed our that the "Latin liturgy looks forward to the coming of the Kingdom, while the Byzantine liturgy celebrates the presence of the kingdom on earth." 
Kerby's efforts last year in­cluded occassional liturgies in various halls during which he said he felt he was "putting on a show 
WHAT'S 
YOUR GIRL BACK HOME 
DOING TONIGHT? 
Long distance still is the next best thing to being there. And you can save 
rather than celebrating the liturgy to give thanks." Kerby and Ciferni felt the 40-45 persons attending the Lenten liturgy at Holy Cross Hall warranted attempting a weekly liturgy and, thus, this Thursday evening's meeting. 
The Melkite priest cited organization of a community and the formation of a liturgy ac­ceptable to all Eastern rites as the main obstacles he has encountered in activating the Eastern tradition oncampus. 
"No priest," Kerby em­phasized,"can really represent the tradition by himself. If he is to be represented on this campus, he must be represented by a com­munity and the preiest is one member of this community. Rather than putting it on as a show, we're taking time to gather people from different backgrounds to form a community." 
Kerby feels there are sufficient campus Melkites, Ukranians and Maronites, among others, to create a community. 
The second problem Kerby notes is finding a liturgy to serve the more that 12 Eastern rites. Most Eastern rite Notre Dame students are Maronite in the Syriac liturgical tradition, not the Byzantine tradition. Although Kerby has the Syriac liturgy of St. John, it is not the Maronite ver­sion. He expressed hope that tomorrow's meeting will deter­mine who wants what. 
"To get the Byzantine liturgy started on campus involves work," Kerby stressed, "Liturgy is defined as the work of the people." 
Characterizing liturgy as the celebration by and the possession of the church, he noted "We (the community) are -disinclined tomake changes in its structure." He maintained that. liturgy belongs to the historical church, i.e. the time, space and community of the past, as well as the modern church. Thus the commitment to the liturgy is to be taken seriously. 

Remember Troians Burst UnderPressul'e 
EASTON EDISON· LEFT AT LINEBACKER 200yds. on left 10 percent DISCOUNT ON . C~~\...,.; DAY AHEAD 
.' .,) ' • • • ' .\ ' • ·' \ • 1 \ • _, ' ' .. ~ ~ •

r 
r G:A5E-5·0F· LIQUOR AND WINE . TO ORDER KEGS 

,..-------~-~----------------------------------~-­
Wednesday, October 24, 1973 
the observer 
5 

Clcssical guitarist at Washington Hall 
Parkening to perform this evening 
by Christopher Manion 

Wednesday night Christopher Parkening, classical guitarist, comes to Notre Dame. At the age of 25, Parkening has already stunned critics from Tokyo to Madrid; he is the highest-selling artist on Capitol records classical label, Angel, and a full Professor of Music at the· University of Southern California. 
Parkening began his studies on the guitar at the age of eleven--an age considered to be quite late for a classical performer. He took the guitar as a challenge, and, for the most part, taught himself until Andres Segovia, the greatest master of this instrument in the world, invited him to his classes, first as a student, and then as a judge, all before Parkening was out of college. For the last five years he has been touring the world with Columbia Artists. 
This past month, on nationwide TV, the Boston Pops Orchestra members gave him a standing ovation. He has been invited to record Rodrigo's guitar concerto with the London Symphony Or­chestra, Eugene Ormandy con­ducting, this coming summer. 
The classical guitar is con­sidered the ultimate in the many applications of the guitar in the contemporary world. Segovia began years ago to bring the guitar back to its place as a respected instrument with its own reper­toire and technique; this standard had been developed centuries ago, in Spain and Italy, by such greats as Carcassi, Sor, and Carulli. 
Parkening 's concert amply represents these contributions as well as his own: he has tran­scribed several impressionistic pieces for his next album, pieces by Ravel, Debussy, and Poulenc. In every way he seems destined to be one of the most acclaimed artists in the world. 
In addition to his musical talents, Parkening has managed to win various national cham­pionships in his favorite sport, fly­fishing. He is an accomplished sportsman, an avid USC fan, and raises Arabian horses on his ranch in the Idaho mountains. Student tickets are a bargain three dollars, and are still available at the music department; remaining tickets will be available at the door of Washington hall. The concert begins at 8:00p.m. 




Student government tackles drug problem 
by Kit Barron 
Staff Reporter 

Just what is the Student Government doing about the drug and dope situation on campus? While the students voice criticism of government's lack of response to the drug-dope issue, Student Body President Dennis Etienne is quick to affirm the corrective action being taken to alleviate the problem. 
In an interview yesterday af­ternoon H-Man confirmed the Student's Government's concern about the drugs on campus. "We have not been negligent in taking a stand," stated H-Man, "However, our main concern is to protect the rights of the students involved and the students at large. I have not yet been presented with any evidence· of wire tappings or any other unethical practices going on." 
H-Man suggested that the student body's skeptical attitude towards student government's involvement with this issue could be attributed to the student government's failure to publicize 
"every move we make." 
Firmly opposed to hard drugs and drug dealing, Provost Greg Smith and Administrative Assistant Jim Roe reiterated the harsh consequences of drugs violations. Members of the Student Government have discussed the issue with Dean of Students John Macheca , President of the SLC . Dr. Phillip Faccenda, and other 
concerned students. 
"We see the university's dilemma," stated Jim Roe, "and recognize the action the ad­ministration must take to preserve the welfare of the university. Even though the dope problem is in a great deal of flux, we must protect the students' rights and can't deny the individual circumstances." 
For many of the same reasons the university refuses to condone the use of marijuana, the Student Government does not condone the use of dope. "But, not condoning marijuana does not mean that the student government condemns it," said Etienne. 
Health professions speech 
Representatives of four major 
osteopathetic medicine, internal
health professions will present an 
medicine as well as a fourth year
introduction to their respective 
medical student will discuss their
professions tonight at 7:30 in 
fields. Upon the conclusion of the
Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium. 
evening's program, the par­
Practitioners of podiatric 
ticipants will hold an informal 
medicine, optometry, 
question and answer session. 
PITT ND GAME 
Tickets to Pitt game distributed tonight {Wed) at 7:00 in amphitheater at LaFortune 
All outstanding money due. Discussion of departure time and parties. 
Also 

All who are going to game 
BE THERE TONIGHT 
· • 0 0 • T • T • o. 


First Floor, 100 Center Mishawaka, Indiana Appointments Prefered, 255-6500 
1

·. MEO 
SCHOOL 
ADMISSION 
PROBLEMS? 
EuroMed 
may orter HI via 
overseas training 

For the session starting Fall, 1974, the European Medical Students Placement Service, Inc. will assist qualified American students in gaining admission to recognized overseas medical schools. 
And that's just the beginning. Since the language barrier constitutes the preponderate difficulty in succeed­ing at a foreign school, the Euromed program also includes an intensive 12 week medical and conversational language course, mandatory for all students. Five hours daily, the course is given in the country where the stu­dent will attend medical school. 
In addition, the European Medical Students Placement Service provides students with a 12 week i;;tensive cu!tural orientation course, with Amer­ican students now studying medicine in that particular country serving as counselors. 
Senior or graduate students currently enrolled in an American university are eligible to participate in the Euromed program. 
For application and further information, phone toll free, 
(800) 645-1234 

or write, 
EUROPEAN MEDICAL 
Students Placement Service, Inc. 170 Old Country ljoad Mineola, N.Y. 11501 
~--~;;-;;,;;--;;;;-,.;;-·.;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;,;;;;.;;;;.;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;,;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;,;......;;;;;;;;~...,;...;,~~----_;,--------------. 

j 
Pre-Victory over USC celebration... 
TONIGHT 
********************* 
* ' * 
~ Live Music by the : 7 and7's 
* * 
only 50¢ : * Mark * ~ all night! * * 
~ Bloom : * * 
Now featuring : Group : Stroh's ** ** 
~ No Cover Charge! ~ on tap ********************** * 
• 
introducing... 
Super Quad Music 

install~d by Sound Masters of Scottsdale Mall 
r t "' .•

,-.-· r 1 .' 
o, o_,_ T0 o, ·~ o_,_ o. 00 T, o. r 0 t 0 I 0 0 f r 0 0 1 '# 'f ·o 1 v, •, 0 0 • ' -1 
THE OBSERV'ER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Art Ferranti Executive Editor 
Lee Gentine Business Manager 

Jerry Lutkus Editor-'in-Chief  Dan Barrett Executive Editor  
NEWS:  283-1715  
EDITORIALS:  283-8661  John Kloos  
BUSINESS:  283-7471  Advertising Manager  

Wednesday, October 24, 1973 
The Tho Reiection 
Politica aside, one can not help but admire the candor and integrity of Le Due Tho in refusing the Nobel Peace Prize for his work in negotiating the Paris peace agreement. 
In refusing the Nobel Prize, Tho pointed out that it would be absurd for him to accept a peace prize when there was no peace, and indicated that he would consider the award only when there was a real peace in Vietnam. 
Two members of the Nobel Prize committee felt compelled to resign because they felt the choice of Kissinger and Tho was inappropriate; there is no peace in Vietnam today. To dignify the fighting which has never really let up since the Paris Agreement by awarding the Nobel Peace Prize to the people who negotiated that arrangement will not help world peace. 
Certainly Tho and Henry Kissinger worked hard in order to arrange the peace agreement, but its only real effect seems to have been to remove the men of the United States from the war. The hostilities continue with the United States backing the South Vietnamese, who are fighting our old enemies. 
More than merely pointing out a poor choice by the committee, Tho's rejection 
daanesbury 
WUL,WHENI 

GROW UP. rH HOWl£, DO YOU 
GOING TO 8E KNOW WHO 
A TENN/5 BlUff JEAN 
PLAYER, Jl/ST KING 157 
LIKE HER! 
\ 

of the award raises the question of why Henry Kissinger did not feel compelled to reject his Nobel Prize. Tho pointed out that htere was no peace in Vietnam, a fact whic!h Kissinger certainly knew when he :accepted the award. 
A peace that is a peace only on paper is not worthy of the Nobel Peace Prize; a refusal of the :Peace Prize by Kissinger would have helped awaken people to the fact that the peace is not a real peace. Kissinger would have made a far greater contribution to a real peace by echoing Tho'S condition for acceptance: "When the Paris agreement on Vietnam is respected, guns are silent, and peace is really restored in South Vietnam, I will consider 1the acceptance." 
Dan Barrett 
the observer 

Night Editor: Bill Brink 
Asst. Night Editor: AI Rutherford 
Layout: Tom Devine, Maria Gallagher Day Editor: Jim Rosin! Picture Screener: Jerome Phillips 
Copyreader: Greg Aiello 
Typists: John Flanagan, Carol Rechtensteiner, 
Tom Modghin, Connie Fourre 
Compugraphic Operator: Joe Abell 
Night Controller: t. j. clinton 
t;~arry trudeau ~---------------~ 
HOIAit&!

!1&, TOOl HE, TOOl I WANNA GROW (IP TO 
o(lfAK­

BE A PROfE5510NAL 
rflr<OIJ6HI

TENNIS PlAYeR, JI/5T 
7

l/ki3 8/UIE JEAN WHAT? KING.' 11/HATiJ I 
I 

Dpinian 
One Day In October 
fdrerj aiella 
Four years later, another Senior year, and baseball magic is loose again in New York. The God of Almighty Victory hovers over northeast shores and the dread city becomes a festive place. The Mets are at it again and who said religion was dead? 
(I sit in front of the TV with a New York Times and watch the world turn.) 
The Mets take the field and this is it--one game with the Reds for the National League Pennant. If the Reds win is it another victory for evil Communism <Rose attacks Harrelson at second base)? That baby-faced All-American Tom Terrific Seaver, who four years ago said, "If the·Mets can win the World Series, why can't we have peace in Vietnam?", takes the mound. He doesn't look sharp. The enemy attacks and is about to score, but Seaver works out of it. 
<Israeli jets attacked Damadcus today, causing many civilian casualties and heavily damaging the Soviet cultural center. Of­ficial sources said that about 100 civilians had been killed or wounded in the raid, which was carried out by six Israeli Phantom jets. Among the dead were a Norwegian member of the United Nations Truce Supervision Organization, his wife and child and the wife of an Indian attached to the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization.) 
Singles by Millan and Jones. The anemic Mets threaten. And Ed Kranepool, the original, substituting for Staub, singles in two runs. 2-0 Mets. 55,000 cheer. 
<A subsidizied system of surveillance earners and holdup alarms for 3,600 stores on major shopping thoroughfares is being set up by the Police Department to protect the city's shopkeepers from robbery.) 
The Reds go down in the second one, two, three. 55,000 cheer and throw eggs at Pete Rose. 
(An elderly man was stabbed to death in a subway car yesterday afternoon on an A train on the IND subway line in downtown Manhattan after he had engaged in a long argument with another passenger.) 
The Mets are retired in order after a News Bulletin in which Edwin Newman announces the resignation of Vice President Agnew. Immediately after resigning Agnew pleaded no contest to one count of tax evasion and was fined $10,000 and put on three years of probation. Spiro Agnew, that pompous paragon of Nixonism. bites the dust, a common crook. Millions cheer. 
The Red third produces a run on Morgan's double, Jones' error, and Dreisen's sacrifice fly. 2-1 Mets. Suspense heightens. The Mets fail again in their half of the hird. The sun shines and the sky is quiet on this special day. Mayor Lindsay arranged for all LaGuardia jets to be diverted from their normal passage over Shea Stadium. What cannot be accomplished to please the God of Almighty Victory? 
<Rome--When 75-year-old Rodolfo Macone went to the social security office, he was told: "You died last August. No pension for you." Officials said he would receive no money until he presented a notarized document certifying he was still alive.) 
The Reds threaten again in the fourth, but Seaver works out of it again. He's not sharp. The Mets get two on in their fourth but don't score. In the Red fifth that menace, Pete Rose, doubles and then scores on Perez's single. The signs around Shea say, "Rose is a pansy"'Rose is a weed .... This Rose smells." The game is half over, the score is 2-2, the rope tightens. 
(Buenos Aires-A labor leader was shot to death today in the resort city of Mar Del Plata. It was the fourth assassination since the return to power of Juan D. Peron.) 
Garrett doubles to open the Met fifth. Thousands scream, "Let's Go Mets." Millan bunts, everyone safe. Jones doubles, scoring Garrett. Gullet comes in to pitch. Milner walks. Carroll comes in to pitch. Then Willie Mays, that blast from the past, drags his old body to the plate and pounds the ball into the ground about eight feet up the third base line and the Reds blow the whole thing out of respect for the great Willie. The Mets then bleed a few more hits, push across four runs altogether, and now hold a 6-2 lead. The fortune wheel is finding its mark. 
<Aiken, S.C.--A class ring accidentally dropped in a toilet bowl here 15 years ago has turned up four blocks a way, in a second-story toilet bowl.) 
The Reds fail in their half of the sixth, while the Mets add another run in their sixth. Seaver doubles and Jones singles him in. Rose singles in the seventh but Seaver gets out of it. Met fans can feel it coming. It's building and soon it will come. Jim Simpson and Maury Wills feel it too. 
(Baltimore--A grand jury has charged a teen-ager with murder in the death of a 75-year-old woman who committed suicide three months after she was raped.) 
The Mets are retired in the seventh, but that's not important with their five run lead. Now here comes the Red eighth. One, two, three and one inning remains between the Mets and a Pennant. The fans are working their way down towards the field in preparation for the celebration. The Mets are out in the eighth. 
(President Nixon, in a patriotic appeal for the "united action of all Americans," urged householders today to lower their ther­mostat setting by four degnes to help get the country through an oil-short winter.) 
Three outs to go. The fans are spilling onto the field. Geronimo lines out, Stahl singles. The fans are getting crazier and there is an emergency evacuation of the Cincinnati women and children to the underground clubhouse. Hal King walks, then Rose walks. McGraw replaces Seaver for the Mets. The game is stopped so the fans can be cleared off the walls and railings. Morgan pops to Harrelson, two down, 55,000 cheer. Some of the Reds in the dugout grab bats in case Met fans decide to attack Pete Rose. Then Dreisen grounds out, Milner to McGraw, and there it is, the Mets win the Pennant, the Mets win the Pennant, the Mets win the Pennant!!! 
(Detectives said yesterday that they had several leads in the stabbing and sexual mutiliation murder of an 83-year-old grand­mother who lived alone in a three-room apartment on what was considered a quiet, safe block in Queens.) 

Wednesday, October 24, 1973 the observer 
I 

Chronology of Watergate 
that of American history, for tions" for the White House. The
By JANE DENISON "*' 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -In Butterfield discloseu the exist-battle of the tapes had begun. mid-July, the Senate Watergate ence of Nixon's secret tapes. Reaction to Butterfield's 
Butterfield, a former director bombshell testimony was firsthearings were wallowing. 
of administration for the stunned disbelief, then swiftJohn W. Dean III already had President, said two of Nixon's official action. The tapes wouldstunned the committee, press
. offices and four of his prove who was telling the truth.
and public With allegations of
high-level wrongdoing. John telephones had been equipped Within the next two days, both Ehrlichman and H.R. Halde-for more than two years with the Senate Watergate Commit-
listening devices to record his tee and Special Prosecutor man were yet to come. 
conversations "for posterity." Archibald Cox wrote Nixon 
On Thursday, July 16 a The work had been done by the asking for his tapes. handsome, nervous, and seem-Secret Service on Nixon's Nixon declined July 23. Prof. ingly unlikely witness, Federal orders. Charles Alan Wright, a consti-Aviation Administrator Alex-Nixon, ill at Bethesda Naval tutional expert hurriedly hired ander P. Butterfield, seated Hospital with pneumonia, im-by Nixon, wrote Cox that to himself at the witness table. mediately ordered that no surrender the tapes would 
What Butterfield told the Secret Service agent should cause "serious and lasting committee sharply changed the testify "concerning matters hurt" to the essential confideD­course of Richard Nixon's observed or learned while tiality of the presidency. Nixon administration and perhaps performing protective func-wrote Sen. Sam J. Ervin P 
Wall Street reacts favorably to Pres. NixonS decision 
NEW YORK <UPI) -Presi­welcome news to Wall Street, :mnouncement by White House dent Nixon's decision to abide depressed in recent sessions by constitutional attorney Charles by a Federal court's order to news developments, with the Alan Wright that the President release his Watergate tapes for President's heretofore deter-would surrender the tapes as judicial inspection spun the ·mined stand on the tapes by far ordered by U.S. District Judge stock market around dramati­the most influential factor. John J. Sirica. cally Tuesday. Then around 2: 30 p.m. the With the news, the Dow Jones 
The President's decision was news wires hummed with the industrial average of 30 blue­
. chip issues-in minus territory up until then-swiftly moved into the plus column and within
Notre Dame receives 
minutes had risen more than 12 points. Turnover also accelerated
$270.000 in avvards 
and at one point the market's ticker tape was three minutes 
Notre Dame has accepted $8,995 from the U.S. Department behind actual floor trading$270,687 in awards for the month of of Commerce for analysis of because of the hectic trading
September to support individual photographs of the Union City, pace.faculty research projects as well Okla., tornado, by Dr. Bruce J. However, the spurt lost steam as for facilities, equipment, and Morgan, assistant professor of and by the market's closingspecial educational and service civil engineering. time of 3:30 p.m. the Dow programs. 
sported a gain only of 5.94
Awards for research totaled Awards for-facilities and points.
$240,572 and included: equipment totaled $2,000 and in-Despite the market's sudden--$71,815 from the National In-eluded the $2,000 grant-in-aid from surge, declining issues retainedstitutes of Health (NIH) for a study · Leo Michuda and Son to William their session-long lead overof the intermediary metabolism of Cerny, chairman, department of advances, with the close
parasitic roundworms and flat-music. 740 on the
showing issues 
worms, by Dr. Howard J. Saz, Awards for special educational downside against 686 on the professor o biology. programs totaled $25,415 and in­upside.-$59,104 from the U.S. Army for cluded: Volume for the day totaled the development of germfree 17,230,000 shares, with more 
hamsters as a biomedical --$5,000 from the Proctor and 
than 7,300,000 shares traded 
resource, by Dr. Morris Pollard, Gamble Fund as a grant-in-aid to between 2 p.m. and 3.30 p.m.chairman of the Department of the University administration. Microbiology and director of the --$5,000 from the Proctor and Lobund Laboratory. Gamble Fund as a grant-in-aid to 
Memorial exhibit 
$50,742 from the U.S. Navy Office Dr. Julius T. Banchero, chairman, of naval research for deep sea department of chemical engineering research, ad­engineering. honoring Kenna ministered by Dr. Edward Jerger, 
-$5,000 from Donald T. McNeill
associate dean of the College of 
Engineering. as a grant-in-aid to Rev. Donald P. to open SundayMcNeill, C.S.C., assistant
-$49,916 from NIH for a study of professor of theology.
the response of germfree animals --$3,000 from an anonymous A memorial exhibition honoringto specified microbial floras, by donor for the Frank Sullivan the late Rev. Howard J. KennaDr. Morris Wagner, professor of Freshman Year Award ad­C.S.C., Indiana provincial of th~microbiology. 
ministered by Dr. Emil T: Hof­Holy Cross Order, will open man, dean of the Freshman Year Sunday, October 28, in the Art of Studies. Gallery. Father Kenna died Sep­
Boyle to be tried 
tember 13 in South Bend after --$2,500 from the Proctor and serving 11 years as provincial.
for murder rap Gamble Fund as a grant-in-aid to Two benefactors of the Notre Dr. Thomas T. Murphy, dean of the Dame gallery, Mr. and Mrs. . College of Business Ad-James Griffin of New York City,
(contmued from page 4) ministration.s 
proposed a special gift honoring 
"We do not intend at this time --$2,500 from the Proctor and the former provincial wfio to dispute the ' indictment Gamble Fund as a grant-in-aid to relinquished his duties last sum­proceeding that has been filed Dr. Yasaku Furuhashi.' chairman, mer. The gift included Josef against him," Moses said. department of marketmg. Albers' recent portfolio of 66 
silkscreens, "Formulation-Ar­
Und~r Mond~y's court ac~ion, --$2,415 from Keith Y .S. Kwoh to ticulation."
Boyle Is to conti~ue to be c.onfm.ed support a tuition scholarship ad­to Ge?rge '_Vashmgton Umvers1ty ministered by Patrick Horsbrugh, Sewell Sillman, well-known Hospital, m custody of U.S. professor of architecture ·lecturer, critic and publisher, will marshals until the Nov. 9 hearing, · 
attend the opening of the memorial at which time he is to appear in The University also received exhibition and present a talk on 
court. $2,500 from the Small Business Albers' works. He is the publisher Boyle is to be examined again by Administration for a service of Albers' "homage to the Square" a government psychiatrist before program of counseling and and "interaction of Color," as wellassistance small
that date. technical to as portfolios of the works of Piet
Both Moses and Malone business concerns. The project is Mondrian, Walker Evans and Ad
stipulated Boyle's competency to administered by Dr. Federick W. 
Reinhardt.
stand trial. Dow, Hayes-Healy professor of The public is invited to attend the Moses said he talked with Boyle 1 trave~ management,. and Dr. 
exhibition opening and Sillman's
about the procedures. "He said Francis A. Yeandel, assistant dean talk at 3 p.m. Refreshments willthat it was fine," Moses told the of the College of Business Ad-be served. 
court. ministration. 
N.C., chairman of the Water­gate Committee, the same day to say the tapes would "inevitably" be misinterpreted and must remain confidential. 
''Accordingly, the tapes, which have been under my sole personal control, will remain so," Nixon wrote Ervin. "None has been transcribed or made public and none will be." 
Cox and the committee sent Nixon subpoenas for the tapes and related documents that very afternoon-the first time in 166 years that subpoenas had been served on a sitting president. The committee sought the tapes of five Nixon conversations with Dean about the bugging scandal. Cox demanded nine tapes involving Dean, Haldeman, Erhlichman and other top Nixon aides. 
Nixon refused to comply with the subpoenas July 26: "I cannot and will not consent to giving any investigatory body private presidential papers," he wrote Ervin. 
Undaunted, Cox filed suit in 
U.S. District Court that after­noon. Responding Aug. 7, the White House said that to surrender the tapes would cause "severe and irreparable" damage to the presidency because "no longer could a president speak in confidence with his close advisers on any subject" if such a precedent were set. 
The Ervin Committee waited to see the White House response to Cox before filing its own suit. When it did, on Aug. 9, it had additional ammunition -that Nixon had already waived any claim to secrecy because he had let Haldeman listen to two of them, one after he had left as White House chief of staff April 30. 
Haldeman volunteered that 
information when he testified 
before the committee July 3(}-­
a revelation that prompted 
outraged howls from Ervin, 
who accused Nixon of "lea­
king" a favorable version 
through hearsay while hiding 
the real evidence. 
Cox, the committee and the 
White House fired legal briefs 
at each other through most of 
August-Cox and the committee 
contending the tapes were 
"essential" evidence for their 
investigations; the White House 
insisting no president could 
function if his confidentiality 
were eroded. 
On Aug. 14, the Gallup poll 
reported that only 31 per cent 
of those polled approved of the 
way Nixon was doing his job­
the lowest ebb for any 
president in 20 years. The next 
day, Nixon made a nationwide 
address to accept "full respon­
sibility" for· the abuses in his 
administration and his re­
election campaign. But he 
denied any complicity and said 
again he would never surrender 
the tapes because of the 
principle of confidentiality. 
"I must and shall oppose any 
efforts to destroy this principle 
... ," he said. 
Chief U.S. District Judge 
John J. Sirica heard oral 
argu~ents in the Cox suit Aug. 
22 m the same Ceremonial 
Courtroom where the trial of 
the original Watergate Seven 
had begun nearly eight months 
before. 
His decision, rendered exact­
ly one week later, was 
precedent shattering: He or­
dered Nixon to turn the tapes 
over to him for review and he 
would decide which portions, if any, should go to the gran· j jury. j 
Nixon's arguments of abse I lu~e executive privilege, Sirica i sa1d, tended to "set the White 
l 
House apart as a fourth branc), 
I 
of government." Nixon promp: I ly appealed. So did Co}i 
i 
arguing that the tapes shoub j go directly to the grand jury cwithout Sirica's screening. 
I
The U.S. Circuit Court c: jAppeals for the District !l 
I 
~olumbia heard oral argument­m the three-way suit Sept. 11 
~ 
and two days later issued " 
I
"memorandum" suggestin.! 
~ 
that Cox and the White Hous.. try to negotiate an out-of-cour settlement. Both sides. reported 
!
Sept. 20 that "sincere efforts" at compromise had collapsed. Forced then to face up t.. deciding the issue, the appeal 
l
court Oct. 12 upheld Sirica. In I' 5-2 decision with two Nixm. appointees dissenting, the cour. 
1
said Nixon must surrender the 
l t
tapes for Sirica 's inspection-· but modified his order to se down elaborate guidelines abou how the screening should br done and permitting Nixon tt withhold state secrets. 
~ 
Nixon's assertions of a11 absolute right to keep anythin 
he chooses secret, said th court, "are invitations t refashion the Constitution, an we reject them." It gave Nixor: until Oct. 19 to appeal to th• Surpeme Court. 
Everyone -including, ap parently, the President-expect ed this would be done. But the final act of the drama took t. new turn in the following week 
Prompted by a growing White House belief that Cox ha! become "intolerable," Nixor decided to try the compromise road again. He suggestet having Sen. John Stennis, !). Miss., "authenticate" summar ies of the tapes for both Cm and the committee. 
Ervin and Watergate Com mittee Vice Chairman Howard 
H. Baker Jr. bought the idea So did Stennis. So did Attorne) General Elliot L. Richardson in principle. But not Cox. 
The President plunged ahead issuing a · statement Frida) night, Oct. 19, saying "com. promise" had been reachM with the Ervin Committee am ordering Cox not to carry hi: quest for presidential tapes an< papers any further. 
Cox vowed to fight on, statio~ his position at a 1 p.m. press conference Saturday, Oct. 20. a~ 
8:23 p.m. that night, presiden tial press secretary Ronald L Ziegler strode grimly to th· podium in the White Hous• press room to announce tha Cox had been fired, tha 

Richardson had quit and tha Deputy Attorney General Wil liam D. Ruckelshaus had beer "discharged" of further dutie! for refusing to go along witt Nixon's plan. 
The clamor for impeachmen began almost immediately building to a crescendo over thE long Venterans Day weekend At noon Tuesday, Oct. 23, Nixm decided to abandon his fight tc keep the tapes secret, at at : 
p.m. Wright told Sirica tht President would "comply in a[ respects" with the court orders 
Cox, now gone, had won. Anc ironically, the Senate commit tee had lost. The White House said the "Stennis Compromise" was now dead and that it would fight to uphold Sirica's Oct. 17 ruling tossing out the commit· tee's suit for the secret tapes. . , ~t was July all over again. 
~----~~~-----------­
Soviets, Chinese exchange shouts 
By BRUCE W. NUNN 
.. UNITED NATIONS <UPI>--A new Soviet-American resolution calling for restoration of the Middle East cease-fire brought a shouting match between Soviet and Chinese delegates Tuesday and resulted in a brief suspension of an emergency Security Council meeting. 
The United States and the Soviet Union patched up earlier dif­ficulties and agreed on a resolution asking both sides in the Middle East to return to the positions they held when the short-lived Monday truce went into effect. It also called for dispatch of U.N. ob­servers to oversee the truce. 
Soviet Ambassador Yakov A. Malik asked for an immediate vote on the measure at the session called by Egypt to protest Israeli "aggression." But Chinese Deputy Foreign Minister Chiao Kuan-hua insisted upon speaking first. 

Malik broke in on Chiao, making the point of order that his request for an immediate vote took precendence. Chiao said he had not interrupted Malik when he spoke and begged the Russian to keep quiet for the Chinese speech. 
Repeated appeals for order by Sir Laurence Mcintyre of Australia, president of the Security Council, were unsuccessful. Malik and Chiao continued to shout at the same time with other delegates clamoring to get into the verbal donnybrook. 
Mcintyre banged his gavel and declared the meeting was suspended for 10 minutes. The council reconvened at 5:33 p.m. 
.Delegates of the 15 member countries, their deputies and ad­visers and diplomats from other countries who occupy VIP seats around the council room poured onto the floor surrounding 
Mcintyre and arguing their points in a parliamentary bedlam. 
Earlier the common front bet­ween the United States and the Soviet Union had broken down temporarily Tuesday over a proposed hardline Russian resolution demanding Israel return to the lines of the original cease-fire, which collapsed scarecely 12 hours after it went into effect Monday night. 
The disagreement delayed the Security Council meeting called to discuss the resumption of hostilities between Israel and its Arab neighbors. The United States and the Soviet Union agreed during the weekend on a joint resolution adopted by the Security Council on a cease-fire, beginning at 6:50p.m. Monday. 
The disagreement was over a new resolution to be presented to the council after Egyptian Am­bassador A. Esmat Abdel Meguid telephoned Mcintyre at 7:30 a.m. to charge Israeli violation of the 

Nobel Prizes announced 
has not been effective. Secre-
By PHILIP M. STONE tary of State Henry Kissinger, 
STOCKHOLM (UPI) A the principal U.S. negotiator at Japanese and an American the peace talks, was the other working for U.S. corporations winner. Tuesday shared the 1973 Nobel Ivar Giaever, 44, born in Prize for physics with a Briton Norway but now a U.S. citlizen for their theories advancing the working for General Electri<: in world of miniature electronics. New York, and Leo Esaki, 4B, a 
A German and an English-Japanese working for Interna­man shared the Chemistry tiona! Business Machines in prize for work that could help New York, share one-half of the solve automobile exhaust poilu-$122,000 Nobel prize ·for their tion. But a Swedish Academy discoveries regarding tunneling professor said their theories phenomena in solids, partJicu­had not yet any practical use. larly their work in semiconduc-
In Hanoi, the North Viet-tors and superconductors. namese news agency said Le Brian Josephson, 33, of Due Tho, the co-winner of this Cambridge University, won the year's Peace Prize for ending rest of the prize for his the Vietnamese war, announced theoretical predictions of the he would not accept the award properties of supercurrent because the peace settlement through a tunnel barrier,
'r. , L 
.I ~ape~C!I soug.tl.f to p~ove
iri;J 

validity of stories 
NEW YORK (UPI)-Lawyers for John N. Mitchell and Maurice H. Stans said Tuesday that the tape recording they want from the White House involves a conversation be­tween the President and John 
W. Dean III about whether the President's brother Edward was involved in the $200,000 Vesco campaign contribution. 
As the trial of the two former cabinet officers was postponed until Jan. 7 because of the tape dispute, Assistant U.S. Atty. John Wing said he expected "some word from the White House" about the tape within two weeks. 

The defense asked for the 
tape to try and discredit the 
testimony of Dean, former White House counsel and a chief prosecution witness. 
U.S. District Court Judge Lee Gagliardi ruled last week that Dean may be barred from testifying unless Nixon releases the tape. Federal prosecutors, who have said that Dean's testimony is crucial to their case, requested the delay, granted by Gagliardi Tuesday. 
Dean has testified before the Senate Watergate committee that he told the President Edward Nixon was involved "but as an innocent agent in the co.. _oution." 
TUTORING PROGRA~~ 
TICKET EXCHANGE 
NO-NAVY GAME NOV. 3 
STUDENTS WHO WISH TO TURN IN TICKETS­GO TO THE SECOND FLOOR TICKET WINDOW OF ACC --TUES THRU THURS OCT. 30 -NOV. 1 9am-4pm 
GIVE A KID A CHANCE TO SEE THE IRISH BEAT THE MIDDES 
.... ~ . , .. ., "~ 
~

• • • • '•• II •, If 
t 1 • . • , ~ \ r \ t ' I ' ' .0 
particularly phenomena called, 
"Josephson Effects." 

The Academy, describing the chemistry prize as one in "chemistry for chemists," made the award to Ernst Fischer, 55, of the Technical University of Munich, and Geoffreh Wilcinson, 52, of the University of London, "for their pioneering work, performed independently, on the chemistry of the organometallic so-called sandwich compounds." They share a $122,000 dollar-prize. 
Academy Professor Gunnar Brusewitz said the chemistry winners' study investigated how organic and metallic atoms can merge, although there was not yet any practical use for the method. 
But, he said, "It may mean that the present lead in gasoline can be replaced with
less dangerous metallic in­gredients, creating less risks of ~~::~~t pollution in large The winners were to receive 
their cash awards, diplomas 
and gold nled I · · 1
as m a specta
10
ceremony Dec. from King cease-fire.pnd to request an urgent meeting. 

Mcintyre called the meeting for noon, but prolonged private negotioations in an effort t o work out a second Soviet-American resolution, paralleling the cease­fire measure adopted early Monday, caused postponement of the meeting until 4 p.m. 
Diplomatic sources said the United States balked at co­sponsoring the resolution, which in its drafting stages, called for with­drawal of both sides to positions they held when Monday's cease­fire originally went into effect. 
The United States canceled its usual daily news breifing and U.S. sources were not immediately available for comment on the diplomatic reports . 
Diplomatic sources said Soviet Ambassador Yakov A. Malik was pushing a three-part resolution which: 
--Reaffirms the cease-fire or­dered by the council and calls for its immediate respect. 
--Demands that military forces withdraw immediately to positions they held Monday, when the cease­fire, accepted by Israel, Egypt and Jordan, rejected by Iraq and ignored by Syria, was to have become effective. 
--Calls for arrangements for policing the cease-fire. Although diplomatic sources said the United States opposed the second part of the measure, even more time was 
occupied  in  discussing  
arrangements for  policing  the  
truce.  


The Performing Arts Series Presents: 
THE GOLDOVSKY GRAND 
OPERA THEATRE •
1n 

PUCCINI'S TOSCA 
in English 

O'Laughlin Auditorium Student Admission $2.00 Thursday, Oct. 25, 8:00pm Reservations: 4176 
notre dame concerts -student union present 
DAVID CROSBY and GRAHAM NASH 
(of Crosby, Stills, Nash, and Young) 

First Ticket Sale is today at the ACC Ticket Office (9: 00-5:00)
and the Student Union Ticket Office (1:00-5: 00) +PAUL SIMON tickets are also on sale.+ 
;C:a:.:,r:,.l.:,X:.;V:.,:I~G:,::u:st:;:a:.:,f;...-------==========··;;;·-;;;-;;;;;--;;;;;;;;-;;,--;;··;;;;-;,;;;-;;;;;;========~ 
What the World Needs Now 
The world needs love ... Men and women who are willing to devote themselves to God's work of rescuing the poor, the oppressed, the forgotten people of the world. 
You are invited to meet one of them. 
Brother Andrew, co-worker of Mother Teresa of Calcutta, and founder of the Brothers of Charity, will share his experiences ... 
Bpm 

Moreau Seminary Thursday, October 25th 


t, ' j ' ' .. • • • I ' l, ~I I. 
• • • • • • • • • • •••••• &" •• .. • • • • • •• -· .. .. ..• ...,... ,· • ~ •• 
' 
' r j
r t ... , . '''J I 'I 
4 
Wednesday, October 24, 1973 the observer 9 i 
8 to 1 vote c • 
l 1
Supreme Comt denies newsmen's review • 
By CHARLOTTE MOULTON 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -The Supreme Court refused 8 to 1 Monday to review the contempt action taken by a federal judge against two newsmen who defied his order against writing stories about testimony at an open court proceeding. 
In a brief order without comment, the Court let stand the contempt finding made by 
U.S. District Judge E. Gordon West against Baton Rouge reporters Larry Dickinson and Gibbs Adams. Justice William 
0. Douglas wanted to hear their appeal, but it takes the votes of four justices to place a case on the Court's docket. 
The hearing involved Frank Stewart, a civil rights worker who was indicted in a state court on charges of conspiring to murder the mayor of Baton Rouge. 
West opened the hearing by declaring "no report of the testimony taken in this case today shall be made in any television or by any other West's order and challenge it media." He said only the fact through normal court channels that a hearing had been held rather than taking it upon could be published. themselves to violate it. 
Dickinson and Gibbs were 
Dickinson's story in The State fined $300 each on Nov. 8, 1971, Times and Gibbs' account in for defying West's edict that no The MJ>rning Advocate gave accounts be published of details of the testimony and testimony given at a public 
every bookseller, and perhaps,
injunction hearing to prevent r--...;.____..;.._....;:....._.;....;...______________
West found them guilty of 
criminal contempt. prejudicial publicity at a possible subsequent criminal 
Last April 9, the 5th U.S. 
trial. 
Circuit Court of Appeals upheld The court also: 
his action even though remark­-Decided 5 to 4 to send a 
ing that "the order they series of obscenity cases back violated was constitutionally to lower courts to be considered 
infirm." The appeals court said 
in the light of the court's rulingthe two should have obeyed last term giving states and 
LeDue Tho refuses Nobel Peace Prize 
newspaper or by radio or because he said the Paris peace 
Kissinger postpones trips to China. Japan 
HONG KONG (UPI)-North Vietnamese peace negotiator Le Due Tho has turned down the 1973 Nobel Peace Prize, which he shared with U.S. Secretary of State Henry Kissinger, 
By JOHN F. BARTON 
WASHINGTON (UPI) Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger Tuesday postponed his scheduled trips to China and Japan to devote all his energies to secure a negotiated cease­fire in the Mideast. 
State Department spokesman Robert J. McCloskey announced the postponement but said it was not directly connected with the resumption of fighting in Middle East. He declined to elaborate. 
Officials said the postpone­ment had been agreed upon Saturday while Kissinger was enroute to Moscow but not announced. 
McCloskey said the Asian tour would be delayed until new dates could be negotiated. Kissinger is expected to hold a press conference Wednesday, probably at the White House. 
"There will be a joint announcement on this sometime soon," McCloskey told repor­ters. "There is now an intense diplomatic effort under way to secure the cease-fire on the ground in the Middle East in terms of the resolution adopted in New York," he added. 
Fighting resumed . between 
the Arabs and Israelis less than 
12 hours after a truce resolution 
adopted by the United Nations 
Security Council was to have 
gone into effect. 
McCloskey said that all the 
countries involved in diplomatic 
efforts to end the fighting had 
been contacted, including the 
Soviet Union. 
"We have to assume that both Egypt and Israel still are committed to a cease-fire," McCloskey said. "There are always dynamics of the battle­field that prevents a cease-fire from coming into effect at the stated hour. There is nothing to indicate either have changed their position." 
McCloskey conceded that the proposed cease-fire never actu­ally took place in the Middle East. "I could not say there ever was a time when the guns fell silent on the battlefield," he said adding that Syria had never agreed to a truce. 
"We had hoped there would be complete compliance by all parties on the acceptance of the cease-fire resolution . . . unfortu­nately that has not proved to be the case," he said. 
McCloskey said that both the United States and Russia had not halted arms shipments to Israel and the Arab states. He said the current U. S. effort to resupply Israel was "going to continue." 
He refused to place blame for 
the failure of the cease-fire 
initiative on any one party and 
said that the United States was 
now involved in intense activity 
to bring the cease-fire about. 
Israel, Egypt and Jordan had 
accepted the cease-fire resolu­
tion while Iraq, Libya and the 
Palestinian Liberation Organi­
zation had not, he said. 
McCloskey said the U. S. and 
Soviet Union had not reached 
agreement on how the cease­
fire would be monitored or 
policed during Kissinger's visit 
to Moscow last week. 
Welcome ND/SMC Men & Women 
Memberships Available 
to 
South Send·s New 
Downtown Private Club 
THE RED DOOR CLUB 
~ 11 OY2 N. Main · ,_ 
settlement on Vietnam has not been fully implemented, the Vietnam News Agency reported Tuesday. 
He said he would consider accepting the honor "when peace is really restored " in Vietnam. 
In a broadcast monitored here, the Vietnam News Agen­cy said Tho rejected the award in a message sent Monday to Mrs. Aase Lionase, president of the Nobel prize committee in Oslo. 
Le Due Tho, a member of the ruling Politburo in Hanoi, and Kissinger were named co­winners of the peace prize for their efforts in bringing about a Vietnam peace treaty. The award was worth $122,000. 
It caused protests throughout Norway and two members of the Nobel Committee resigned. 
(The Norwegian Nobel Com­mittee in Oslo has not yet received any letter from Tho rejecting the prize awarded him eight days ago, Mrs. Lionaes said. She told newsmen there would be no comment "before I have read the letter." 
Copies of the letter were also distributed by North Viet­namese diplomats in Paris.) 
The Communist news agency 
quoted Le Due Tho as saying in 
his rejection: 
"Peace has not been really 
restored in South Vietnam. 
Under such circumstances, I 
feel it impossible to accept the 
1973 Nobel Peace Prize that the 
committee has bestowed on me. 
When the Paris agreement on 
Vietnam is respected, guns are 
silenced, and peace is really 
restored in South Vietnam, I 
will consider the acceptation of 
this prize." 
communities more leeway to crack down on what they deem to be pornography. Douglas, in an angry dissent joined by Justices William J. Brennan Jr., Thurgood Marshall and Potter Stewart, charged the decision puts "every author, every librarian...at tne mercy of the local police ... " 
-Agreed to review a lower court ruling which set aside the court-martial conviction of Capt. Howard B. Levy, a Brooklyn dermatologist for refusing to train medics for duty in Vietnam. 

notre dame concerts 
student union 
present 
A&M recording artist 
RICK 
ROBERTS 

(formerly of The Flying Burrito Brothers) 
in a free concert 
Friday, Oct. 26 at 8:00 
in the Little Theatre of St. Mary's College 
Why should anyone be a priest? 
Why study for the priesthood? Why be part of a dying institu­tion? Why commit yourself to celibacy? Indeed, why get closer to misery in a world that is already miserable enough? 
There aren't any easy answers to these questions­even for a Pauli st. But he knows that today's world desperately needs people who are commit­ted to ideals and beliefs. In our search for peace of mind and country, happiness, love and brotherhood, we are really seeking meaning-a reason for being. 
The Paulist doesn't feel the 
world is dying; he rejoices in 
the signs of hope around him and listens for the sounds of 
love. Men like the Paulists 
rekindle our spirits and their 
love for Him includes and 
embraces all of us. 
Every Paulist is a mission­
ary. Whether he is in the pulpit 
or the parish house, on campus 
or in ghettos ... whether he 
communicates with the spoken 
word or the printed word, the 
P~ulist is talking about what 
concerns him most: the love of 
Christ for all people. 
If you are looking for 
answers, talk to us. Together 
we may find them. For more 
information about the Paulist 
priesthood, send for THE 
PAULIST PAPERS-an exciting 
new kit of articles, posters 
and recordings about 
America's first religious . community. 
Write to: 
Father Donald C. Campbell, 
Room 102 

University of 
Concerts
Notre Dame Presents 
CHRISTOPHER PARKENING 
Classical Guitarist 
"Could well become one of his generation's concert heroes" 
Tonight 8: 15 Washington Hall Tickets MUSIC DEP'T:. '2B3~65 1"21283~-6211 
the observer Wednesday, October 24, 1973 
Need '100 

Ticket exchange program set for Navy game 
by Rick Scharf Staff Reporter 
The Notre Dame-Navy football· game on November 3 has been designated as the 1973 Student Ticket Exchange Game. The ticket exchange program, sponsored by the Neighborhood Study-Help Tutoring Program and the ACC ticket Office, allows Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students to donate their tickets to South Bend elementary school children can attend a Notre Dame football game. 

Legislation to create post 
By STEVE GERSTEL 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -While GOP senators voiced support for President Nixon, Senate liberals said Tuesday they would introduce legislation to create a post of special Watergate prosecutor to re­place Archibald Cox. 
Even though Nixon has complied with demands to surrender the Watergate tape recordings, Sen. Edward M. Kennedy said the need for an independent investigator "is even more essential now than ever." Nixon fired Cox Satur­day. 
Kennedy and Sen. Philip A. Hart, D-Mich., said they would introduce the legislation Fri­day, giving them time to get a broader sponsorship. 
The bill, already backed by key Democrats on the Senate Judiciary Committee, would put the prosecutor under (U.S. District) Judge John J. Sirica's authority. 
Sens. Lawton Chiles, D-Fla., and Adlai Stevenson, D-Ill., introduced identical bills of their own. 
Before it was announced that Nixon would comply with the court order, Sen. Marlow W. Cook, R-Ky., sternly admon­ished his colleagues to stop prejudging President Nixon and 

Supreme Court confrontation.. facts. But he denied that Nixon had 1 planned the confrontation with Cox solely to find an excuse to fire him. Midway into the news con­ference, he was asked, "Mr. · Richardson, do you believe the 
Charter Group 
Flight to Orient; 
call Toll Free 
(800) 227-1969 (U.S except California) I between llam and 2pm 
( 8 0 0 ) 9 8 2-58 2 71 (California only) 
If you plan a trip to Japan, Hong Kong & Orient, make sure ­give-us a ca_ll .~ a, bjg savings.. , , , , , . . 

"The exchange program is .in its fourth year," explained Art Wesselman, co-ordinator of the program, and each year it has been a tremendous success." Last year 760 tickets were donated for the Missouri game and in 1971 over 900 children received tickets to attend the Navy game. 
Students interested in giving up • thier tickets can take them to the 2nd floor ticket window at the ACC on Tuesday, Oct. 30, Wednesday, Oct. 31, and Thursday, Nov. 1, from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. A receipt will be given by the ACC in exchange 
(continued from page 3) 
conduct an impartial investiga­
tion. 
He confirmed that some in the White House -he did not name them -had suggested firing Cox as a way to avoid a 

President should be impea­
ched'?" 

Richardson hesitated, weigh­ing his words. . "The question of any ultimate Judgn~,ent to be made on these for the tickets that can be used to pick up an Air Force ticket by the students who indicated in Sep­tember that they wished to receive a ticket for the Thanksgiving Day game. 
"Other than tickets the program also needs people to volunteer as drivers and monitors for the children who will attend the game," Wesselman explained. "The drivers will pick up kids at various South Bend schools on the day of the game, bring them to Stepan Center by 9:30 a.m. , and return them to the schools after the 
Kennedy: An independent investigator needed "now more than ever." 
avoid becoming a "lynch mob" "I don't think we should have jury if Nixon is impeached. a lynch mob," Cook said. "The 
In a Senate speech, Cook Senate shouldn't constitute it­criticized senators, whom he self as a lynch mob. did not name, who have called "I hope if we do judge this for Nixon's impeachment case, we don't do it with a through the media and par­stacked jury," Cook added. ticipated in polls. Sen. Wallace F. Bennett, R­
• 
Utah, said "some want to vent their. political spleen, and some,
Richardson issues no 
lookmg beyond a hoped-for 
successful impeachment see it al" lm'nea~Lmenfas a unique opportunity -a
Stand :.& ~ 'Z"' ~',!J. , historical first -to transfer the 
Presidency from one party to another without the risk of an election. 
"Impeachment talk may be in the minds of some, good smear talk, but there are no legal, gr?unds for impeac.h­ment, said Sen. Carl T. Curbs, R-Neb. _ 
LEARN TO JUMP 

MCPC Inc. Skydiving center 
located 15 min. North East of N.D. 
3 miles North of ~d~ard,s,b~r:g, .Mic;h~·.' 
. . • • • , , •• , , : , · 
1

for more, information[ call '('616) 4~5~8251 \ 
game. The monitors will pick up a child at Stepan Center at 10a.m. and accompany them to the game." Meetings for students who are interested in being drivers or monitors will be held next Monday and Tuesday evening in La For­tune Center at a time to be an­nounced later. 
In addition to the elementary school children, the South Bend Council for the Mentally Retarded and the local cerebal Palsey Assocatio 
In addition to the elementary school children, the South Bend Council for the Mentally Retarded and the local Cerebal Palsey Association will also participate in 
radio  stations  WNDU-AM  and  
WSND-AM.  
Any  questions  concerning  the  


. SEND FLOWERS TO TELL SOMEONE HOW YOU FEEL ABOUT THEM. 
-within walking distance from the campus-Teleflora 
The Posy Patch 
FLOWER AND GIFT SHOP 
272-6363 SOUTH BEND INDIANA 46637 
fjrt$fOnt 
Tires 
GROUP PURCHASE AGREEMENT 
Now available at a special discount to all students and em­
ployees of Notre Dame. We handle a complete line of 4 ply, 
Belted, Radial, and Import car tires; at your special price. 
Also, our Philco appliance and Electronic Department will 
extend the discount. Please bring your 1.0. card for iden­
tification. 

OFFER GOOD ONLY AT OUR DOWNTOWN STORE 
502 S. Michigan 
South Bend, Indiana 
SKI THE FRENCH ALPS! 
TIGNES, FRANCE JANUARY 3 ·JANUARY J J, 1974 
$328 includes 
+ROUND TRIP AIRFARE VIA AIR FRANCE 747: NEW YORK-PARIS-GENEVA-PARIS-NEW YORK 
+BUS TRANSFERS: GENEVA-TIGNES-GENEVA 
+LODGING: LUXURY DOUBLE OCCUPANCY ROOMS WITH PRIVATE BATH-RIGHT ON MOUNTAIN AT TIGNES-6 NIGHTS 
+ALL AREA ALL LIFT PASS 
+GRAND FINALE-LAST NIGHT IN PARIS! QUALITY ACCOMODATIONS INCLUDED 
+COMPLIMENTARY CONTINENTAL BREAKFASTS AT THE LODGE. 
The Tignes-Val D'lsere area is the largest ski complex in the 
world. Immense runs for beginning, intermediate, and 
advanced skiers. 

Further information available from Sku Club members at 
N_orth, South & SMC Dining Halls tonight (Wednesday) at dmner, or call Mike at 6716. 
The trip is open to all ND-SMC students, faculty & families. ; ,~POJ'Isored.by, Notre.oa·me Ski Club. 'Arrangernents,by ; ,E~gertqn, Travel .Se.rvit~.and Air France. .• ,$~~ depq~it·dvt.SUMiiY,, November 4th;.··.·~:-· .. ~:: ·:-:.·. ~:: > 
· , I 
the tiket exchange if enough tickets are donated. "About 700 tickets are needed to ac­commodate all the groups which will be involved in the program," Wesselman pointed out. 
Students who exchange their tickets will be able to watch the game on local television, Wesselman added. The ND-Navy game will be televised on WNDU­TV, channel16, and broadcast over 
Student Ticket Exchange Program can be answered by Art Wesselman at 233-1745, Dan Novak at 7966, or Marianne McCarthy at 5731. 

Irish outfumble, outscore I Michigan State in JV final 
sacking the MSU quarterback terception return for a touch-by Pete McHugh 
three times. Linemen John down. 
Fourteen fumbles is a lot of Galanis, Nick Federenko, and Ken Offensively freshman Jim fumbles. Many players might Andler supplied the pressure in the Weiler and Slager were impressive never play in a fourteen fumble backfield along with linebackers in their final JV action this year. game. Many coaches might never Ivan Brown and John Dubenetzky. Weiler, a product of Cleveland's coach in a fourteen-fumble game. Freshman Mike Ostrader (5-Cathedral Latin High School, And 800 million Chinese together 10,175) from Galesburg, Illinois, rushed for 65 yards in 14 attempts might never see fourteen fumbles. put the game out of Michigan and caught two passes for 27 yards 
But Monday afternoon the Notre State's reach in the third quarter to lead the Irish in both depart­Dame and Michigan State junior with a sparkling 51 yard in-ments. varsity football teams ac­
Joh.n Fineran.:=:=:::::::=:::::=:::::::::=:=:::=:=:::=:=:=:::::::::::::=:=:::=:=::===========================================
complished the unlikely, as the Irish outfumbled the Spartans 8-6 and outscored the visitors 21-o in a comedy of errors at Cartier Field. 
Blarney Stone(d) 
The victory closed Notre Dame's JV season giving coach Denny Murphy's charges a 4-1 record for the year. Though the game was marred by the sloppy ball han­

38-28

dling, the Irish defense shined, 
28-14

allowing the Spartans only 124 
45-23

yards rushing and two completed 
passes. 
PRIDE ... that's what it will be all about this Saturday afternoon on theIn avenging last week's 7-Q loss turf of Notre Dame Stadium starting at 12:50 p.m. PRIDE. 
to Michigan State, Notre Dame Football teams have it. ..football fans do, too... this simple five-letter capitalized on Spartan blunders word ... PRIDE. 
and superior field position for their These three pairs of numbers, separated by a hyphen. These threethree scores. A 18 yard touchdown pairs of numbers have it; they have PRIDE.
drive, a 35 yard drive, and a 51 For three years, Notre Dame's seniors have been waiting, WAITINGyard interception return accounted for PRIDE, Victory, Notre Dame. These three pairs of numbers,for the three Irish tallies. 
however, have meant PRIDE and VICTORY for another school otherSophomore Tom Maschmeier set than du Lac. This school is on everybody's mind, for not only has this up the first touchdown with a 40 school won by these scores the last three years, its record over the pastyard punt return to the MSU 18 
six seasons is 4-0-2 against the Irish.
yard line in the first quarter. 
Notre Dame, its students and alumni have seen their PRIDE slip away Three runs by fullback TomParise each year since 1966. Saturday, their team will meet John McKay and his put the Irish on the scoreboard as Trojans of Southern California. What follows is the PRIDE of some ofthe sophomore from Longmont, this University's seniors, the students who have suffered the most: Colorado crashed off-tackle for the JINKS: "If there is a single thing that will stick in my mind from here final three yards. Junior Jack on out about Notre Dame is will be our victory over Southern California Stephan added the conversion. 
this Saturday." 
A not uncommon Spartan fumble GARY .BOCKRATH: "I don't know what to say without swearing. gave the Irish possession on the Let's just say I dislike them intensely." MSU 35 yard line in the second JOE SWEENEY: "I am a Northern Californian, and being a Northern quarter. From there, quarterback Californian I've had an extreme dislike for Southern Californians, Rick Slager moved his team inside especially during the past six years." the Spartan two before handing-off MARY ELLEN STUMPF (St. Mary's senior): "There can be no other to sophomore Paul Linehan for time but right NOW." Notre Dame's second touchdown. MEATBALL: ''My feelings for Southern Cal have been increasing every Stephan added the PAT. year because I feel the pride of Notre Dame and Ara Parseghian is being 
ruined much more than John McKay's is being helped." 
Following Linehan's score, the NEIL CONNELLY: "We've got to beat them. WE'VE GOT TO BEAT game settled into a charitable THEM. That's all."
affair inwhich each team wanted TOM HANSEN (Joliet, Ill. senior): "The only team we haven'tto give the football to the other. A beaten in the three years we've been here. No other team has ruined the typical series of plays occurred past three seasons as USC has. I can't wait to get our hands on them this after Notre Dame's Tim Simon 
Saturday. It's going to be a helluva game."
imprudently caught an end zone­ANNE CISLE: "I think we take a lot of abuse. Personally, myself, Ibound Spartan punt and was think we are ready this time. I want to be here when we beat them." 
tackled inside his own ten yard This year's Fighting Irish have the PRIDE . This year's seniors have line. 
PRIDE, whether their team wins or loses. And that's what NOTRE 
In the first play of the series, the DAME is all about ... PRIDE. And that's why I love this place. PRIDE, Irish donated the ball to Michigan IRISH, PRIDE. State, no doubt in deference to their proximity to the goal line. 
Universal Artists proudly
The Spartans, however, would not 
presents in South Bend
be outdone by their hosts and 
returned the pigskin the very 
An Evening With
next play. Irish punter Tony Brantley restored some normalcy to the game with a 48 yard punt three plays later. 
In the second half, the Irish 
Todd 
defense dominated the ac.:---.11. 
Rundgan 
SUNDAY, NOV. 11th 
8pm 
MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 
211 North Michigan Avenue Downtown South Bend, Indiana 
TICKETS AR.E ·NOW 0,... SALE: MORRIS' ti.\U(: BOX' 1 • 
OFFICE, 11-5· dail\'an'cht B9QGIE ~E.CORDS. $4.00 (ad­
0 0 
'-'·vallc:i~(, S•1.S8' (day {)/ conce~) I • ' '
•• \ ·' 



Tony Brantley punts the ball away in Monday's JV win over Michigan State. Brantley's 48-yard kick late in the second half kept State away from the Irish goalline and preserved NO's 21-0 shutout. 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 
I am going to be disowned unless I get 3·4 GA tix for my father tor any home game but Air Force. Will pay $$. Call 4077. 
NEED NAVY TIX. Judy 4970. 
Need 4 GA Navy tix. Call Sue 6793. 
Need 4 GA Navy tix. Will pay . Call Joe. 3274. 
Need several stud + GA USC tix. Call Sean 233-4818. 
Need 2 or more GA USC tix. Call Nick 7920. 
Scalpers-me again. UXSC tix GA or stud. Sharon 287-4003. Please. 
Desperately need 8 stud. USC !ix. Will meet inflationary demands. Call Pat. 288-5563. 
3ga Navy tix. (Maybe 1 stud.). Money no object. Call Susan 5154. 
Need 4 GA USC tix. Call Bill 7926. 
Need 2 or 4 adjacent carpenters !ix. Call Brian 6726. 
Need 2 USC tix. Will pay top money. Call 8728. 
Need 1 or 2 GA Navy tix. Call Jack 233-2752. 
Will trade cash and -or 4th row section C Paul Simon tix for Carpenter tix, decent. (I need 2 or 4). Call 234·7082. 
Need 2 GAtor Navy. Call Tom 3232. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost Navy wallet between huddle and circle. Call Kathy 4554. 
Found set of keys near K of C bldg. Call tom 3307. 
for rent 

House for rent. 119 Scott st. 4 Students. $250 mo., utilities included. Call 232-2113. 
• , f f 
'!I 
' . 

. I
I 

I I ' t ~ •• ' I I.
'' 
for sale 

Meerschaum pipes! Ex­ceptional values, personalized service. Catalog. PMP Co. 
Yamaha guitar FG-300 (original retail price $300) rosewood, , inlaid pearl, ad­justable bridge, hardshell case, excellent condition. Call David 8427. 
Tutoring in emil T +organic. reasonable rates. Call 8161. 
'65 Pontiac Bonneville con. vertible, power steering+ brakes, newer engine, $200 or best otter. Call 282-1049. 
2 USC tix. Highest bid by 10­25.. 272-8069. 
2 GA USC tix. Call Charley. 1049. Highest bid. 
Will sell 1 USC student ticket. Best otter. 289-1649. 
2 GA USC tix. Call 573~ Best 
otter. 
Chairs SJ up couches 10 up. Free delivery to dorm. Call Mrs. Cooper 272-3004. 
'65 thunderbird, power + air. excellent condition. $875 Call Mrs. Cooper 272-3004. 
'70 Fiat 124 sport cuope, 5­speed low mileage. $1725. Call Mrs. Cooper 272-3004. 
NOTICES 

Pandora's "the little bookstore 
that could" announces new hours, now open from 9 am to 7 pm everyday of lhe week, still with those heap big discounts on new used +new used books. also art prints, roll in papers, underground comix and newspaper. 
Minor repairs on electrical appliances. Sid's canary repair. Cheap. 24 Hr. service. 130 Howard, 8173. 
Will trade 1 GA USC ticket for 1 Navy ticket. Call 272-3270. 4:30 -6 pm. 
ANNOUNCING HOCKEY SCRIMMAGE+ GRACE TOWER GORILLAS vs. ALUMNI HALL DOGS, THURSDAY OCT. 25. 11:15 pm AT THE A.C.C. 
LOUISIANA PEOPLE( and surrounding areas too): watch the classitieds for the an. nouncement of a social gathering next Sunday night, 28 Oct. '73. 
I , , .. 
' Frodo wakes in the house of Elroud. Boromir arrives from Minas Tirith. 
.­
the observer 

ND trounces Army: turns to USC 
by Greg Corgan administered an Irish team. More scored nine touchdowns while to Southern Cal and don't tht"nk th to nd t0 , . 
· t tl th h S t d ' · · 593 t t 1 d d f" · ' e ry, a no ones surpnl'le, "To
tmpor an y, oug , a ur ay s gammg o a yar san 29 trst Insh won'~ be ready. tell you the truth," he s!ild "we 
The Cadets couldn't have picked game at West Point gave Irish fans J better time to host the Irish at grounds for much needed op-Nlichie Stadium. timism considering the upcoming 
Since 1913, when the series showdown with Southern ')egan, and through 40 previous California this weekend. ,neetings the Notre Dame-Army The optimism came in light of eontest had been played the fact that the victory featured 
~lsewhere, and although it came to as potent an offensive display as \fichie for the first time last the Irish have put together in 3aturday, the Irish upped their recent years, and there were a series lead to 29-8-4 by trouncing minimum of turnovers. All­:he Cadets 62-3. American candidate Frank, In the process coach Ara Par-Pomarico returned to the starting ·;egian and his charges avenged lineup, and the defense once again ·'Jotre Dame's loss to Army in turned in a stellar performance. 1944 when ND was drubbed 59-Q in In gaining their fifth straight the most one-sided defeat ever-triumph of the season, the Irish 
.---------------------------. 
OBSERVER 
SPORTS 

Army was the last opponent for Notre Dame's Fighting Irish ... 

-. 
..• but undefeated Southern Cal is the next. 
downs. Drives of 66,34,59,74,55,36,42 and 82 yeards and a 73 yard punt return by fresh­man Tim Simon accounted for the 62 Irish points in three quarters of play. 
Coach Parseghian was par­ticularly well-pleased with ND's first scoring drive of the afternoon. 
"After Army scored their field goal in the first quarter, our en­suing drive was probably our best drive of the ball game. We had good execution and we moved well." Parseghian continued, "It was unfortunate for Army the way we scored. They kept giving us excellent field position and we 
capitalized on their turnovers. Army was trying to get back in the game in the second half and as a result they had to gamble. That can backfire. By the end of the game we weren't running anything except straight ahead plays." 
After the opening series of the first half, the second team say action for the rest of the agternoon and they came up with four more touchdowns, two by freshman Alphonse Hunter, one by quar­

terback  Frank  Allocco  and  the  
return by Simon.  
Parseghian, feeling  a  bit  em­ 
barrassed  by  the  fact  that  the  

score was so lopsided explained, "When you put the second and third teams in the ball game there's nothing you can do about running up the score. They're all a little more eager, they want to perform well, and you don't know whether you're doing the opposing team a favor or not by playing your second and third teams. Still, we played the game and we won, and that's what is important." 
Winning is important indeed, by a few more bright spots emerged from Saturday's contest at West Point. Pomarico, a senior guard and offensive tri-captain, made his first appearance with the first team offense since being sidelined seven weeks ago with an injured ankle. 
"It felt pretty good," said Pomarico,"We didn't rush things, I didn't have to play, and there was no pain. It felt good to get in there and be a part of it all again." 
Eric Penick, who scored his first two touchdowns of the season Saturday may have spoken for the entire squad when he added,''It's great to have Frank Pomarico back, it sure makes a difference. He does a good job." 
Turnovers, specifically Irish turnovers, which have plagued the team in recent weeks were vir­tually nonexistent after a first quarter fumble by Wayne Bullock and an intercepted screen pass thrown by Tom Clements. Par­seghian was pleased with these statistics considering the fact that all 58 players who made the trip saw action and no fewer then 14 of those players handled the ball. 
The defense, minus Steve Niehaus, was still superb. The Irish "D," led by Bob Zanot's.two pass interceptions, and a third by Luther Bradley held the Cadets to a mere 10 yards rushing and 72 yards via the pass with only eight first downs. "We had them stopped just about everywhere except for the little sprint sweeps they used in the first quarter," noted linebacker Greg Collins. "The only play they seemed able to run was that little counter play to the fullback and we adjusted to that soon enough." 
In three days they'll be adjusting 
Hoop scrimmage 
The Notre Dame basketball squad will host an open intrasquad scrimmage this Friday afternoon at 5 p.m. in the Athletic and Convocation Center. The public is invited. 

As Collins mentioned in the were thinking about Southern Cal lockerroom after the Army vic-before halftime was even over." 

The Irish Eye 
Looking back 

It was an unusual scene, one of surprising intensity and fervor. 
Th~ sev~nth-grader sat ?Y himself in the corner of the kitchen, his body leanmg slightly forward m the· yellow vinyl chair. His hands were white from long moments of gripping the metal rim bordering the kitchen counter. 
But .the boy ~ad no awareness of the appearance ~e presented. His attentiOn was nveted to the plastic lattice-work surrounding the dial of the household radio. Only rarely did his attention stray past the radio to the darkening sky beyond the kitchen window, to the wind and dirty clouds of a November evening in 1964. 
He knew little and understood less of what he was hearing. He was Catholic, and was just emerging from years of identifying with "good guys and "bad guys." And now he identified Notre Dame as the "good guys" and Southern California as the "bad guys." Perhaps that's why he was so unprepared for what happened as the game wound to its con­clusion. 
The "good guys" didn't win in 1964. Craig Fertig passed, Rod Sherman caught, Tony Carey fell, and Southern Cal scored in the final two minutes to win and crush Notre Dame's precious, fragile dreams of a National Championship in Ara Parseghian's first year at South Bend. 
The seventh-grader's reaction came as a surprise even to himself. As the game ended the boy's eyes stung and filled with salt tears. He slammed a small fist down on the counter beside the radio. He didn't 
understand what the loss meant, but he understood that it was a loss. He understood that Notre Dame, those "good guys" he imagined as Notre Dame, had been defeated. And he was heartbroken because of it. 
Two years later, the boy had graduated to high school and transistor radios. He paid scant notice to Notre Dame's drive to the 1966 National Championship-excepting the 10-10 tie with Michigan State-but the game with Southern California, a game played, again, in the Los Angeles Coliseum-commanded his full attention. 
And when the youngster flipped off his pocket radio after that game had ended--after. it had ended with Notre Dame on top, 51-o-he felt happy in a bouncy, boytsh sort of way. His "good guys" had won. They had beaten Stho.uthern Cal. The National Championship, even, seemed secondary to 
IS. 
Had the boy been told, at that moment, that Notre Dame would not defeat coa~h John McKay's Trojans for the next six years, he would have laughed wtth all the wisdom and maturity of a high school freshman. 
"Surely," he thought, "this is only the beginning. Hanratty and Seymour are only sophomores. We'll go 10-o the next two seasons at least." ' 
But the bo~ was wrong. Throughout the rest of his high school career, he never a gam saw, or heard, Notre Dame dafeat Southern California. He r~ad about O.J. Simpson's '67 rampage in South Bend. He read about one he between the two teams and watched another on TV. But, during high school, he never r.ead about, or watched, another Irish victory over USC. 
Nor ~ere the ftrst three years after high school any kinder to him. 
Fro!? hts room on the third floor of Sorin Hall, the young man watched a 
~lono~s season un~old in 1970. He watched Notre Dame sweep through its first mne games With an unbeaten record, and then prepared, along with thousa~ds of other Irish stud~mts and fans, for another season-ending game m the Los Angeles Coliseum-another season-ending game with Southern Cal. 
Two ~~ys after Thanksgiving, on November 28th, 1970, he sat in front of a television set and prepared for his first "real" National Championship. He ~avored the first few minutes of that game, as Notre Dame im­mediately drove for a touchdown. 
"Notre Dame 7, Southern Cal 0," read the flickering TV screen ~10ment~ af~er Jo~ Theisman~'s 25-yard touchdown run. The young man fidgeted m hts chair, and felt tingles racing along his spine. 
"No way they'll beat us now," he thought. "No way at all." 
But he was wrong again. As a rain shower became a downpour and a dow~pour b~came a de~uge, the Trojans fought back. They led 21:7 after the ftrst penod, 38-14 midway through the third, and finished the game on top, 38-28. They won despite Theismann's aerial heroics, and despite the pleas, shouts, and muttered curses of one Notre Dame freshman and his cluster of friends. 
"Revenge" was the cry picked up by the young man and his friends in 1971. "Wouldn't it be great.. ... ?" was the hope they put into words. It would have been great if Notre Dame had been able to beat Southern Cal th~t year, but again, they didn't. In a agme played in South Bend's misty, dnzzly weather, USC loped home to a 28-14 decision. 
Notre Dam~ tr~iled b~ only two points entering the fourth period before Anthony Davis killed Insh hopes by scoring his second kick return touch­down of the day. 
U~~ t~iump~ed 45-23 on the strength of a 20-point fourth period and D~v1s stx tallies, but the boy who had cried in 1964 felt only disap­pomtment in 1972. He was disappointed not because a team of"good guys" had been beaten, but beca.use a team of real people, the likes of Tom Clements, Frank Pomanco and Gerry DiNardo had been den:olished in front of 70,000 fans in the L.A. Coliseum and a national TV audience. 
And again, the boy was heartbroken-though in an entirely different 
sort of way. 
This Saturday! Notre Dame ~ill play Southern California again. And wh~n the game IS palyed, 1964 s seventh graders will be 1973's college semors. More than one of them, on Saturday morning will remember how sweet it was to beat the Trojans in 1966. ' 
And at least one of them will remember what it was like to listen to a 
Notre Dame-southern Cal game as a seventh-grader. And at least one of 
them will be hoping that, in 1973, any seventh-graders listening to the 
game will get a chance to hear the "good guys" win. 



