OD The laslcle 
South Bend: Changing A Special Supplement 
•.. after page 6 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VIll, No. 13 Friday, September 21, 1973 
Rectors see no problems 

Football weekend parties to work within guidelines 
By Paul Colgan & Claude Devaney Starr Reporters 
Parties and alcohol will not pose any unusual problems this weekend for rectors on the South Quad. "Small parties only" is the consensus of an Observer poll of North Quad rectors Even though this is a football weekend, all those questioned said they expected few big parties. 
On the North QuadFr. Thomas Tallarida. rector of Zahm Hall,saidthat there would be "no hassle on private parties in the room." 
Fr. John Mulcahy of Flanner Hall simply said, "There will be no drinking in the halls outside of the rooms." 
"Last year's manual is in effect and I'll enforce it like last year," commented Kathy Cekanski, rec­tress of Breen Phillips. "Girls halls are different from men's. I don't expect any problems." 

Assistant rector Joe Gower expects "a certain amount of conviviality" in St. Ed's. 
"Parties are nice affairs" commented Fr. Robert Griffin, rector of Keenan Hall, "We .>ill try to do as we did last weekend and try to help them to be sociable. Obviously as a rectPr I have instructions to stop large parties so if I se--:,J! ge parties going on 
I'll have to stop and say that's a no no!" 
South Quad rectors agree that big parties are not a serious factor on the first football weekend. Fr. Dave Schlaver, rector of Dillon Hall, could "sense a spirit of cooperation" among the students of his hall. He said that on football weekends so many other things were happPning that numbers would not be a problem. If people were planning any big parties, he hoped that they would "work within the spirit of the guidelines" for alcohol and parties. 
Cooperation by studc1 <s with the regulations was also felt ·y Fr. Thon ... s Chambers, rector of Morrissey Hall. He stct'•·d that for this weekend the regulations were the same as before, and that students would be aware of their responsibility as they were in the past. The new guidelines would give added responsibility to the hall. 

Sr. Karen Anne Pa. the rector of Badin Hall, said that she did not forsee any problems this weekend. because no large parties had been planned 
Sr. Paul felt that if a problem did exist, it would tend to be in the men's dorm's rather than the women's. 
Fr. Schbver said he has made the guidelines clear to his hall. He "was not going to play a game." He felt the students would look at the hallwith some 
respect. 
According to Fr. Chambers, the new guidelines would help a hall. They would create another vehicle for hall unity. People would have to get together and be creative in order to fnd a place to hold a party. 
Fr. Cham hers said ''The fellows have to follow the rules of the university He said hall parties with alcohol were never permitted in Morrissey. 
It's "the people not the parties " which impress others about the resident halls. The students have respect according to Chambers for each other. 



Tomorrow morning • • • 
mngazine ot the observer 



m()nlr 
()r 
published biweekly volume two, number one september twenty-second, 1973 
starts a new year 
Available in the dining halls and around campus 

King Riggs 
Takes Riggs in three sets 
Billie Jean King stops the znouth 
By MIKE RABUN UPI Sports Writer 
HOUSTON <UPI) -Billie Jean King avenged the name of women's tennis and put at least a muffler on Bobby Riggs' non­stop mouth with a decisive, straight sets, 6-4, 6-3, 6-3 victory Thursday night in their "battle of the sexes" ex­travaganza. 
Mrs. King ran the 55-year-old Riggs into submission in a match that produced much better tennis than anyone had the right to expect, and the lure of the oldest rivalry of all ­man vs. woman -attracted 30,472 to the Astrodome, the largest crowd ever to watch a tennis match. 
In so doing, Billie Jean, 29, pocketed $100,000 in the nation­ally-televised, winner-take-all carnival. 
With $100-a-seat customers swigging champagne at court­side for a dollar a glass, Mrs. King, excelling in every phase of the game, put to rest the question of whether a champion female tennis player could whip "an old man with one foot in the grave." 
The old man did not give up without a struggle, however. 
After dropping the first two sets, Rigg1., who almost single­handedly promoted his way into a fortune by challenging first Margaret Court -whom he beat handily on Mother's Day -and then Billie Jean, wearied noticeably. In the final set, Riggs, who had been treated all week for tendonitis in his right elbow, paused briefly to have his hand massaged. 
Then, he rallied briefly in the third set -but by that point there was no question as to the outcome. 
The quality of tennis played by both almost covered up the pomp and ceremony which had been pumped into the event. But not quite. 
Around courtside was a band, majorettes, a well-stocked bar, scores of photographers and the elite of tennis decked out as they would be for a Broadway opening. 
And both competititors played it 
for all it was worth before the 
national television cameras. 

the observer Friday, September 21, 1973 
warld 
briefs 
Los .\ngeles--Attorneys for John Ehrlichman and three other former White House aides accused in the break-in of the office of Daniel Ellsberg's psychiatrist asked Thursday for dismissal of all charges on grounds of insufficient evidence that a burglary had occurred. 
Santiago, Chill'--The U.S. embassy said Thursday at least four :\mericans and probably six have been arrested by Chile's new military regime, including two University of Wisconsin researchers and two Roman Catholic missionaries, among the thousands seized after the coup against the Marxist government. 
Washington--The Food and Drug Administration said Thursday it will require doctors to warn patients that the "morning after" birth control pill may not be safe and could trigger such side effects as blood clotting. 
Washington--The Senate Foreign Relations Committee, in a report on the nomination of Henry Kissinger as Secretary of State, concluded 
Thursday that the administration had "very little, if any, justification" for wiretaps of 17 newsmen and government officials in 
the 1969 and 1970. 
Washington--Director John T. Dunlop of the Cost of Living Council disclosed Thursday the administration plans to allow angry retail gasoline dealers to increase their ceiling prices, perhaps within the next week. 
~ew York--Willie Mays officially said good-bye to baseball Thursday but left no doubt that his love affair with the game will never end. "It's difficult to explain how much I love baseball," Mays said in an­nouncing his retirement from the game at age 42 after a 22 year career. 
an campus laday 
friday, sept. 21 
3 pm .. seminar, "materials problems in automotive industry by john K. dicello, rm. 5, engineering bldg. 
7: 
30--pep rally, ara parseghian speaking, stepan center 

7: 
30.. hockey, chicago black hawks vs. dallas, ace 


8 and 10 pm .. film, last picture show, engineering aud. 
8:15 pm .. concert, artist's showcase : award-winning show, vvashington hall 
9:30pm .. smc coffeehouse is open, beneath cafeteria 
saturday, sept. 22 
1:30pm .. football, nd vs. northwestern, stadium 
8:30pm .. concert, chuck berry and the coasters, ace 
sunday, sept. 23 
4:30pm .. meeting, Cila dinner, mass and slide presentation, bulla shed 


Hotplate _causes Sorin fire 
by George Velcich Staff Reporter 
An unattended hotplate caused minor damage in a third floor room WednesdaynightatSorin Hall. 
Upon hearing the sounds of the threatening panty-raid, a fresh­man left a hotplate on the floor in his room causing a small fire. He apparently forgot to turn it off in · the desire. to set to the rally .. 
A few minutes later, other hal residents noticed smoke from the roo·m. They called the campus fire department, and in a short' time, the flame was extinguished. 
What little damage occured happened to the rug and the hot­plate. 
Notre Dame football fever lights more than one kind of fire. 
The Observer is publiShed daily during the college semestfl' except vacations by the stuaents of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased lor sa per sPmester ($14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid. Notrp Dame, Ind. 46556. . 
OBSERVER ADVERTISING 
CAll 
. 28.3-7471 

Panty raid causes damage 
by Melissa Byrne The first panty raid of the year 
occurred at midnight, Wednesday, September 19 on St. Mary's Campus. Tony Kovatch, director 
of St. Mary's Security, reported extensive damage to campus buildings. 
Kovatch estimates 700 boys raided .St. Mary's campus. Notre Dame students took clothes from girls' rooms in Holy Cross, Regina and McCandless Halls. Clothes were also taken from the laundry 
photo on page 3 
room in LeMans Hall basement. 
SMC  dorms  suffered  broken  
windows,  broken  door  hinges,  
slashes  screens  and  broken  
firelocks.  

Further damage included 3 broken globe lights costing $40 apiece. Joe Boniades, St. Mary's groundskeeper, estimate $150 damage to trees, shrubs and college equipment. 
Kovatch met Thursday morning with Srthur Pears, director of Notre Dame. Secu~ity and with 
Student Affairs directors from both ND and SMC. The group discussed damage caused by the raid. The total cost of damage has not yet been determined. 
"This panty raid was easily the worst I've s&n in my 3 years at St. Mary's, said Phyllis Ledoux, LeMans Hall director. "The majority of students in LeMans acted immaturely. The girls hung out windows, dangling things on string. It is extremely disap­pointing to me when women respond to a panty raid with foul language and encourage destruction of their own property.'' 
ND-SMC tradition dictates a panty raid before the first home football game each year. Kathleen Mulaney, SMC Dean of Students, said, "We only wish the panty raid could have stayed at a fun level as in the past 2 years. Fun is fine, but students encouraging destruction of their own property is different." 
SMC Security will take no specific action against ND' students because too many were involved. "The girls were just as bad as the boys," Ledoux said. 
\AS LONG AS YOU'RE STUCK IN SOUTH BEND 
you should have someone take care of your immediate insurarce needs namely 
APARTMENT INSURANCE CAR INSURANCE 
at very reasonable rates. 
Call me for a quote: Jim Dunfee 287-4344 DUNFEE GREENAN AGENCY 
1756 Mishawaka Avenue S th Bend 15 Indiana 
,:;:~;::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;.;.;.;.;.;.:-:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:-:-::::::;:;:;:;:; 

Before: 
During: 


Student Billing Service 
makes sense! There's no reason why you shouldn't enjoy the convenience of making long distance calls from your residence hall room phone and receiving a monthly bill for your calls ... and yours only! 
That service is available right here, right now. Dorm resi­dents may pick up their Student Billing Cards at the Indiana Bell Office. Talk it up. 
We'll mail you a Student Billing Card, if you'll call234-5088. Or you can drop in at our Business Office at 225 S. Main Street. Open 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday. 
@ Indiana Bell. 
~ p , ... 
_· .... •.• .. ·.. ' 

Macheca issues statement 
•





'No drinking m 

Friday, September 21, 1973 the observer 
3 
::f:;:;:;:;:;:;;::;:::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::'

public' 
~ ~~l? ~j: statJonery jj~j Cards ~U:!1U:ID W :j~~20% off with this ac( 
on other's rights." 
§ ~AC~:~::::::::::::::::::~::=:=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::z~:!: t
Macheca added, "The m11jority of people who are here to enjoy 
mmJ-mall
football games conduct themselves 
town & countrv 234o miracle lane A rt 
in an orderly way and there is no 
shopping center• •• mishawaka, indiana 46544 supplies
great concern in the university community. Obviously, there are exceptions and because students see exceptions, I hope it doesn't mean they will follow suit." 
School house Too
Appealing to student observance and cooperation, he said, "We 
In the Brewery
have rules and we must abide by 
100 Center Complex
them. We are trying to change these rules and in the meantime, 
Mishawaka, Ind. we're all trying to live within the Phone -259-8181 rules established in the existing student manuaL" 
The midwest's most complete
Dean Macheca added that Notre Dame is, very concerned about 
needlepoint shop
educating socially as well as academically. Notre Dame is one 
SPECIAL: 10 percent discount upon presentation
of few universities that is making 
of student I D ' 
committments to help students learn, mature and grow beyond the 
HOURS: MONDAY-SATURDAY, 10am-9pm 
classroom. 
SUNDAY, 12 m-6 m 
' 
ATTENTION ARTS AND LETTERS 
Present Sophomores, Juniors, and Seniors. Applications for A & L. 
0 -­
0 

COLLEGE COUNCIL SEATS 
and one 
UNIVERSITY ACADEMIC COUNCIL SEAt 
are now being accepted. Students are asked to write a brief statement -one typewritten page or less-on why they are interested in serving in either (or both) positions. Include address and phone number. All statements must be submitted to the 
DEAN'S OFFICE 137 O'SHAUGHNESSEY NO LATER THAN FRIDAY. SEPTEMBER 21 

AT 4:30P.M. 
(interviews will then be arrangea) 
Get your heads together. 
From one beer lover to another. 
by Howard Wood Starr Reporter 
With the first draft of the new guidelines presented to the Student Life Council, Dean of Students, John Macheca, has said that the basic change in the student manual would be, "no drinking in public places except under the guidelines established by the Office of Student Affairs and approved by the SLC." 
This change could allow for legal drinking in the peripheral areas of the campus, such as the An Tostal field and the football parking lot. This is prohibited under strict enforcement of the present student manual. 
Past abuse of these rules has brought tighter restrictions onthe use of alcohol on campus. This is also the reason for the changes requested in the wording of the student manuaL 
Commenting on the reasoning for stricter enforcement, Macheca stated, "We have rules to live by that are realistic and addressed both to the individual and common good. I would like to see the SLC rules amended but until they are, we should try to live by the ones we have." 
Under the new guidelines, large social gatherings with the con­sumption of alcohol will not be allowed. Drinking and parties are restricted to the private rooms and these ·'should not attract undue attention." 
Concerning the subject of drinking in the football parking lot by visitors before Saturday's football games, Macheca noted, "Drinking in the parking lot is not a problem because no one is in­fringing on someone else, whereas, big parties in dorms can infringe 

Rapunsel, Rapunsel, let down your ... 
One of the many hundreds od panty raiders attern,ts to enter the Holy Cross dorm Wednesday. (Staff photo by Mike Budd) 
TONIGHT AT 8 P.M. 
ANN CORIO WANTS YOU 
TO SEE WHAT YOUR FATHER HAD TO INTO CHICAGO FOR, WHEN HE WAS AT DAME. ANN CORIO in 

THIS WAS BURLESQUE 
featuring JERRY LESTER 
See her nostalgic satire of what was in the 30's and (Baggy-pants strip teasers, an out of step chorus line and all.) 
7 STARTING TUESDAY, 18th TUES, WED, FRI Bpm SAT 6 & 9:30, SUN 7:30 
STUDENT 
~~~ogri~:afs" 
Thurs, Spm & Sat 
Show ND-SMC ID 
this ad. TICKETS ON SALE llam TOSHOWTIME AT MORRIS CIVIC BOX OFFICE, 211 N. MICHIGAN DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND. 232-6954 

the observer
4 
Friday, September 21, 1973 

The Gripes Are Tripe
Editor: 
Tlte administration's an-nounPeme.lts concerning the rules for hall parties seemed to me to be sonwwhat heavv-handed and of­ficious. but -not altogether unreasonable. The letters of student's concerning them in \I onday 's Obst>rn•r. however, seenH'd to nw to be nothing more than childish ravings not worthy of students here tv get a g'ood t•duca tion. 
Asking that parties be restricted to certain areas of the hall. guards the rights of those students who wish to use their rooms to sleep or st_udy. It does not \'iolate the rights ot students to have a good time. It is possible to have a perfectly noisy. uninhibited party in a public area of the hall as well as in the li\'ing areas of the halls. 
As for· the rector being an inhibiting influence on having a good time ... well, all that I know is that both the Rector and the Assistant Rector in my hall are thought of as personal friends, and, if anything, add to the party. Their presence would inhibit nothing short of drug abuse or illicit sexual activities, which are not necessary as "important outlets for tensions and frustrations." 
Finally, as for the part about "such regulations on the student's free, moral judgements are self l1efeating as they mold a blind follower rather than a constructive initiator." I have never heard such unmitigated tripe in all my life. 
Yours Truly, Michael Feord 
Allende, the Hero 
Editor: 
There was an article in your newspaper concerning President Allende of Chile which disturbed me greatly and I would like to make a response to that article if I may. 
There is nothing wrong about a man trying to help his country. ;\;othing at all!!!! Therefore, no one has the right to accuse him of being a clown. 
If President Salvator Allende 
failed to help Chile because of his 
belieis, that does not give anyone 
the right to say that "He did a 
favor to Chile by killing himself." 
Allende. even though he made 
the wrong approach to help Chile 
,---------·­
by using the Marxist theory (We was lacking a few thingr also! But believe this because we are I attribute this to the 1) per cent C3pitalistic) he was a hard pure "orange juice" that the working man. He fought for what native fed to me and my Holders he thought was right. He fought prior to and during the game. against the elite and the American All in all, last season had its good Capitalist Imperialism. He opened points and its bad points, but now 
the eyes of many Chilean people we must forget about all that came who now are going to grieve the off last year and look forward to loss of their leader. bigger and better things to come 
Remember El Che Guevara? off... Tomorrow the football team Before he died he was nothing but a will participate in their first game communist. Feel free to ask any of the '73 season. They have been Latin American about him. He is a working hard and are anxious to hero and a martyr of justice. Do show us what they have learned. not be surprised if Allende receives And I also have been working hard the same type of honor. I know that and with a year of experience he will. under my belt, I feel that this will 
Please, before you write be a very productive year. anything more about Allende, just But now I will get down to the think! He was wrong in the way he bare facts. Last year I asked for a carried out his policies, but he was female volunteer to come forward a true man who deserves to be and join me in letting it all hang alive helping his people, not under out. The few girls who took me up the ground helping the maggot,''· on my offer were rather dubious 
Roberto Arguello 
The Knaked Coed 
Editor, Fellow Students, and Other Rabbie: 
Ever since the Orange Bowl game, I have been stripping my brains out pondering what went wrong. I guess I will have to take some of the blame for our poor showing down there because I 
~"'' ~d~~;~~~ ·~;;;t•l 

LOIS TRANTER 259-1981 RENTAL MANAGER CRAIG KAPSON 259-1981 VICE PRESIDENT 
Mishawaka 


~CHICAGO BLACK HAWKS vs. DALLAS 
Tonight  7:30 p.m.  
NOTRE DAME  Athletic and  
Convocation center  

all seats reserved prices adults -$3.50 chi/den 12 
$2.00
and under 
Tickets on sole at: 
ACC 9-5 mon.-sat. also gate 3 one hour before game 

:.bout the "undress" rehearsal. Since it was to be held in private, they felt that I may be influenced by some extra-curricular activity by one of the applicants. 
Therefore, in order to do justice to all the females that apply for the job, I feel that a public audition would serve the purpose. 
What better opportunity is there to display their wares than at the first N.D. game of a national championship season. I am anxious to air out my shorts that have been gathering dust and mothballs since the first of the year. And from my seat high atop my Holders' shoulders, I will be 
We've got it all together ... jeans, 
sw.eaters, shoes, coats, jackets
su1_ts, ~ccessories ... all with the 
un1vers1ty man in mind. See it 
all...soon. 
able to get a first hand view of the young ladies who will eventually become my "co-stripper". 
By selecting a partner at this first game, it not only gives the winner a chance to practice during the off weekend <Purdue), but it also gives me an opportunity to familiarize myself with her and work out a sensational routine for the next home game. Remember 
all females are invited to enter and if any female is in­terested, feel free to contact me 
about any of the details. Although helpful, it isn't necessary to con­tact me first before entering, because all surprise entries will be 
viewed  with  just  as  much  en­ 
thusiasm.  
So  come  tomorrow,  !certainly  

loo~ forward to seeing many young lad1es out there giving it their all­off. And may the best body win '' 
Pieces of Love, Edward M. Klunk "The Knaked Klunker" 



of the 1974 Chevrolets. 
See them in our showroom beginning September 20 during special introduction showroom hours. 
Thursday September 20 8:00A.M. until 9:00 P.M. Friday September 2 J 8:00A.M. until 9:00P.M. Saturday September 22 8:00 A.M. until 6:00 P.M. 
CAPRICE • IMPALA • STATION WAGONS MONTE CARLO • CHEVElLE • (AMARO • CORVETTE NOVA • VEGA • CHEVROLET TRUCKS 

Thank you John Voll Notre Dame '73 Student Representative 
288-1421 
333 Western Avenue South Bend. Ind. 46601 


CORD! 
$50 
Belieye it ... we have this great lookin Ion~~aflrvg,d~f ~~somfiY tai!1rea corduroy spgrt coa~
1
serves you w!il e2f:' 1 uf. With slacks, and it natural, in a good ran:~s~f sr~~-dark brown or 
Your store in style, price and terms 
.---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~----------------------. 
Palar Bearinr:~s



THE OBSERVER 

Return to the
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Art Ferranti Executive Editor 
Lee Gentine Business Manager Jerry Lutkus 
Dan BarreH
Editor-in-Chief 
Executive Editor 

Golden Dream 
NEWS: 283-1715 
ann mccarry
EDITORIALS: 283-8661 John Kloos 
Advertising Manager
BUSINESS: 283-7471 
Friday, September 21, 1973 


The Raid Tradition 
Panty raids have become a thing of tradition at Notre Dame. When raids at universities across the country have slowly disappeared, they still have continued at Notre Dame. There is nothing basically wrong with panty raids 
unless they end up as the one did Wednesday night. 
Damage was widespread at St. Mary's and rumors of damage to the women's halls on the ND campus have been cir­culating. 
St. Mary's dorms hinges, slashed screens and broken firelocks. The groundskeepers estimated $150 damage to trees, shrubs and equipment.. 
Yet blame cannot be placed solely on any group involved in the fiasco. The estimated 700 guys who invaded the campus were inconsiderate and ex­tremely destructive in their actions. But, as SMC security suggests, the girls called a lot of the destruction down on them­selves. 
This is the kind of senseless violence and destruction that brings bad results at ND. It's the kind of actions that lead the members of the administration to believe that ND students cannot handle them­selves. It's the kind of action that results in "in loco parentis" and party regulations. 
Next time around cool it. It'll be better for everyone. 
We are not about to suggest that those who did most of the damage step forward because the damage was inflicted by most of the people involved. Just try and learn a lesson from this one. If lessons are not learned and the raid is not perp­trated in a spirit of fun instead of vulgar destruction, then maybe it's time that this campus tradition passed from the 
campus, too. J L tk
erry u us 

The Triumph of Ms. 
Even United Press International would not admit to what happened last night.ln their story, filed by male sportswriters, they said that Billie Jean King put to rest the questions of whether a champion female tennis player could whip "an old man with one foot in the grave." 
They would not admit that Billie Jean King defeated more than a man last night--she defeated an attitude, an at­titude that says that women do not belong in the same endeavors as men. Mrs. King proved that they do and Bobby Riggs asked for it. The cocky hustler attempted to take on a tennis player who will go down in history as one of the greatest­male or female--that ever played the sport. 
Many will argue that she did beat an old man and that matched up against one of the top young male pros she would lose. It seems that that would be the case, but it's not the issue at hand. 
Riggs proclaimed himself the monarch of the male chauvinists. Across the country, millions of men banked on Riggs' lobs to beat that woman. They agreed with his stance--as he said on ABC last night--that the male is superior, the male is dominant. In their agreement with him, many suffered what they must consider a major loss last night. 
This date will probably not be listed with the day that women receved the right to vote. Nor will Billie Jean King be 
One year ago I strolled through Piazza Partigiano in Perugia, Italy, taking in for the first time the Italian way of life. During the year !tried to share some of my experiences and revelations of life abroad with you. 
Now, sitting in the library with my Bic finepoint and legal pad, I share my first impressions of being at Notre Dame with you. 
I had no doubts about transferring from SMC to ND this year. Academically as well as spiritually I sense the move is right for me now, although friends advised me otherwise. 
"I don't know if you're going to like being on campus again or not, Ann," a friend wrote during the summer. I'm sure any experience will seem anti-climatic after a year in Rome, and Notre Dame has changed. It's a more cynical and drunken than you remember." 
I've been here a couple weeks now. Already I am behind in my studies, finding myself yet too weak to pass up sharing and celebrating with the people I love and the many more I continue to meet here. This experience hardly makes me an authority but it has given me time to realize changes in myself, my friends and the university. 
What I see at ND now is not a cynical world decorated with empty beer cans but rather a refreshed community highlighted with signs of youthful optimism and growth. I'm sure the cynics, the skeptics, and the drunks are here, too. But perhaps the sharp edge of their ex­perience has been softened by the innocence of those new to Notre Dame this year. 
I met an old friend in the Huddle today. 
"Hey, Camarry! How's it feel to be back?" 
He seemed a bit surprised when I told him it felt great to be here. 
"I bet you miss Rome, though, don't you?" 
"Well, actually, I don't miss Rome at all." He was puzzled by my reply as many others have been. 
It's difficult to condense a whole year into a few words, especially when that year was such a neat one. Things like jogging in the Circus Maximus, riding a camel in Egypt, or teaching a seven-year-old Roman the arts of Frisbee, suffer in translation. 
These memories keep yesterday alive but somehow today and tomorrow always seem to have the habit of showing up and it's a good thing it works that way. 
Yesterday, I was in Rome and it seemed right to be there, then. Today I am at Notre Dame and it seems right to be here now. I am becoming a part of Notre Dame and am beginning to feel Notre Dame as an integral part of me. 
This may not be the first time we've been here, but it is a first time. It is a new chance for all of us to grow, to care, to share things that have yet to be dreamt. 
I'm glad to be here. I hope you are too. 
remembered in the same light as Susan 
the observer
B. Anthony, but women will be holding 
their heads up a great deal higher tomorrow ... and with good reason. And if the reactions that roare~ through Badin, Farley, Walsh and Breen-Phillips last night are any indication of things to come, don't challenge any women from around here to a tennis match. You may end up on the short end too. 
Congratulations B.J..... and thank you. -Jerry Lutkus -
Night Editor: Joe Abell Assistant Night Editor: AI Rutherford Layout: Celeste Ponteri, Maria Gallagher Day Editor: Terry Keeney Copyreader: Greg Rowinski and Patti Cooney Picture Screener: Jerome Phillips Typists: Mary Romer, Connie Fourre, Joltin' 
Joe Wilkowski, Tom Modglin, Phil Orschein, 
Chris Knecht, Mike Sidel Compugraphic Operator: Mike Goetz Controller of the Night: rick smith 

the observer Friday, September 21, 1973 
hail, hail, rock ' n' roll! 
This Saturday evening Notre Damebegins another _,erif's of concerts for the 1973-74 school year. Being a senior at Notre Dame, I have seen three previous concert years and have heard a variety of comments and ~uggpstions concerning the concerts. One such comment seems to be, "The concert \\ns all right--in fact it was good--but it 11 :-~sn "t anything all that different." I can :1~sure you that this Saturday evening you "iil incteert see something different--and at :!w ~amP timf' ~omething very enjoyable. · ':uck Berrv. one of rock 'n' roll's fines. , :i•ar';;ts and composers will perform on ··:\!Pat tht> ACT. Chuck is just as dynamic 
• 
: . .-!agP as he is 1n record. A friend of mine t·. :1 '· lhiv State l'niversity (who had never 

• 
P!·. tward of Chuck Berry l said that · "hut·k ·s performance was the finest he ad ··\-r:· sren on a stage. 


Ding-A-Ling 
.\nd ',\·hy is this so? Because Chuck Berry is more than just "the fella who sings that goofy lling-:\-Ling song,·· a comment I have hf'ard sevpral times already by students. 
Chuck Berry has been performing for years Csince 19521 and he is a true pro. He was born in St. Louis, Mo. and attended Sumner High and Poro College in St. Louis. In 1952 he started his own group, the Chuck Berry Combo, and worked at local clubs. While visiting Chicago in the early 1950's he 
Muddy Waters 
became acquainted with the famous blues sin­ger Muddy Waters. who encouraged Chuck to see Leonard or Phil Chess of the Chess Hecord Co. in Chicago. In May of 1955 he had his first recording session with Chess and was shcheduled to cut a song entitled "Ida Hed." At thelast minute this title was changed to ":\Iayhelline" which resulted in Chuck's first nationwide hit. "Maybelline" earned Billboard Magazine's Triple Award ... for the biggest Rhythm and Blues record in the nation. the most played Rhyth­mn and Blue~ record onjute boxes. and the most-played record on the nation's radio stations . Other Chuck· Berry hits include :\lemphis nater done as an instrumental by Lonnie Mack and then as a smash vocal by Johnny Rivers>, Back in the USA (which inspired the Beatles' Back in the USSR), and :-.;o Particular Place to Go (you remember how he couldn't unfasten her 
safety belt>. Chuck is also the composer of Sweet Little Sixteen, the melody of which the Beach Boys later used for their Surfin USA. The Rolling Stones and the Beatles both admitted that Chuck Berry was a major influence in their music. Two Beatie standards, Roll Ovt>r Beethoven and Rock 'n' Roll Music are Chuck Berry originals. And who hasn't at one time or the other heard Johnny B. Goode! These are just a few of Chuck Berry's many contributions to popular music. / 
Coasters 
But the show will by no means stop there. As Chuck Berry's special guests will appear the Coasters, probably known best for their recording of Poison Ivy ("you're gonna need an ocean of Calamine lotion") and Charlie Brown ("why's everybody always pickin' on me?"). And if these don't sound familiar don't be discouraged. The Coasters have been performing on stage since 1949 and still know how to capture an audience. In 1949 they were known as the Robins, an early rhythm and blues group from the pre­rock 'n' roll days. As the Robins they recorded two big sellers, Smokey Joe's Cafe 
Letters Ta R Lonely Ciad 
father ho\NOrd kenna, c.s.c. 
reverend rabert r:~riffin 

There was a priest buried from Sacred Heart Church last Monday who, for those of us in the religious community of Holy Cross, was a father to us all. He was so muchloved by so many priests, brothers, and seminarians of Holy Cross--he was such a gracious figure of a man. communicating faith and fundamental strength to his 
Hrsitation 
religious family--that I have hesitated for two days to write about him, lest, by writing, I seen to claim that this univer­sal father belongs especially to me. He was · no more a fatfier to me than he was to my many brothers in Holy Cross. They loved him as much as I did. and my grief at his death is no greater than theirs. There were many in the Community who knew him better than I --many who were assisted by him through faith-crises or personal dif­ficulties more shattering than any I have ever needed him for. If I preseume to write about him now with words of love and praise, it is because I want those of you at !';otre Dame who never met him to know that my father,and the father of my brothers. was also your father too. 
a domer 
Father Howard Kenna was educated at Notre Dame. He was a former math teacher and administrator at Notre Dame. At the time of his death, he had just con­cluded eleven years as Provincial Superior of the Indiana Province of the Priests' Society of Holy Cross. He was a member of the Board of Fellows at Notre Dame, and an honorary degree recipient of the University. 
he cared 
!';one of these biographical facts will tell vou how much Father Kenna cared about ~otre Dame and its people. But if you ever talker! with him, you would know that he cared about you, and about all the others, in we>ys that you had forgotten to care about vourselves. · \Iany of us came to know Father Kenna when he was assigned to our seminary in Washington as its superior in 1952. There .,n·re some priests in the Community who thought he might be appointed president of :"iotre Dame that year; instead, Father Hesbur~h became president, and Father 
Kenna came to us. Like a number of other seminarians, I was at first frightened bythis logical, mathematical man with the erect posture, the white hair, and the stern glance (mostly caused by impaired vision), and the reputation for devestating wittiness. We caught our first real glimpse of him as superior when he came on a visit to our summer camp at Deer Park, Maryland. Jo'or a couple of days, I tried to avoid meeting him, fEf'l.ing tongue-tied, as I sometimes do, when faced by superiors, probably because I had clashed early with my father in his role as an authority figure. But it isn't easy to avoid meeting someone when you are both living in a community of fifty or sixty people in a few· buildings isolated on a lakeside. Eventually, Father Kenna sent word that I had been noticed skulking around in a particularly diaphanous shirt I was fond of that summer. 
no hiding 
I knew then, that as far as this man was concerned, it was time for me to give up my hiding places. 
In the first talk he gave us as seminarians, he said: "You have taken vows as men of Holy Cross, and I presume that you intend to keep them." Keep them we did, according to the strictly ordered schedule of the day that the seminary imposed on us. It wasn't easy to tell this man, as the rule directed that 
you must,that you had missed morning meditation at 5:30a.m., because youreally needed to sleep. It was shattering to be caught by him reading Time magazine at eleven o'clock at night, when you were supposed to be in bed at ten, and anyway, you weren't ever supposed to be reading Time, or any other worldly magazine, at least not until you were ordained. Maybe such rules seem silly now, but they were the system all of us lived under, and looking back, such discipline remembered, makes the seminary seem like a place of innocence when all the world was young. 
Great Stone Face 
So Father Kenna was our superior whom we called the Great Stone Face, and he was good to us in all the ways necessary, if we were to grow into gentle men who would be sensitive priests. If asked in the morning for an extra smoke period before classes, he might frequently and with good cheer, say no; and just as we were about to judge him as a heartless ogre, there would be new furniture in the rec room, or new and ex­
pensive stacks of records in the music room. J:<'rom all his efforts in beefing up our courses of study, !,lnd challenging us and our teachers to lives of scholarship and prayer, we knew he wanted us to be, as he was, men of in­tellect with a faith deeply anchored in God. 
forgotten prayers 
remember one morning at Mass. I forgot, in a manner that was customary with me. the Latin prayers at the foot of the altar and tried to fake them. After Mass. in the sacristy. he said to me: "Mr. Griffin, you don't know your Latin prayers." I could have died with fear and embarrassment, for it seemed no light offense for a seminarian less than .a year away from ordination, not to know the responses expected from the parish altar boy. 
That evening, I appeared to him, dramatic with contrition. I said: "Father, this morning after Mass, you rebuked me for not knowing the prayers at the foot of the altar." 
no rebuke 
"I didn't rebuke you," he said. "I just said that you didn't know them." The drama was all on my part; with him, it was just a question of facts. had tried to fake those prayers; he didn't like faking. I never tried faking anything wtth him again. 
Once, I told him Iwould give up smoking for Lent. "Try giving it up," he said, "every other day of Lent." He was not a man who would let the way of mortification be easy. 
He told us once of the way that Christians should be aware of God. "We are like children," he said, "who are playing in a room where their mother is busy with chores of housework or conversation. For all her busy-ness, that mother is aware of the slightest change in the rhythm of her children's activity; and the children, for all their noisiness, are aware of the presence of the mother. As children are to their mother, and as a mother is to her family, so should we be with God, listening to Him with an inner ear, conscious that He is always with us." 
simple things 
But, of course, he said simple things like this in words that were moving and beautiful, and some of them I will always remember. 
So it was, for two years, that my classmates and I listened to this man, and 
kevin o'neil/(1955) and Riot in Cell Block No. 90954). The style that the group developed during this period was successfully translated into the work of the Coasters. In 1956 the Robins split into two groups--two members formed the "new" Robins while Bobby Nunn (the lead singer of the Robins) formed the Coasters. The Coasters attained their first national hit in 1956 with a song entitled Searchin'. 
American Bandstand 
Also, they were frequent guests on Dick Clark's "American Bandstand " when it began to be seen nationally in 1957. Other hits by the Coasters include Yakety Yak 09581, Along Came Jones 0959), and Little Egypt . 
tickets available 
So even if you are not a "rock 'n' roll nut" like myself, do yourself a favor and get in on the fun Saturday evening at the ACC. I guarantee that you'll enjoy not only the nostalgic aspect of the concert, but more importantly the fine music performed by these two truly great musical groups. Good seats are still available and will be sold up until showtime. 
discovered the wisdom and gentleness that lay under the masks of sternness. When I was ordained, Father Kenna was the preacher at my first Mass, and he has been my friend and father ever since. 
The last time I talked at length with Father Kenna was more than a year ago, when he came to visit me in my rooms at Keenan. Someone had complained of a viewpoint of mine to the authorities in Rome, and Father Kenna, as provincial, had been asked by those authorities to in­vestigate. I don't think he agreed with my viewpoint any more than the Roman authorities did. But our conversation was filled with the warmth and grace of the man, and it was so full of love that I was tempted to think of other viewpoints that would also offend Rome, just so I could have further conversations with this gentle father who was instructing me. 
inconvenience 
I said to him: "Father, I am sorry to have caused you this inconvenience." 
"Oh," he said, "it is not your fault." He paused for a moment, and then said whose fault he thought it was, if not mine. I will not tell you whose fault he said it was, because I am only his son, and not his spokesman for any criticism he may have had for the human element of the church he loved and served so well. 
Then he spoke of Notre Dame and the students here whom, in that summer preceding the arrival of women on campus, he called "the boys", and the responsibility that we as Christian teachers have towards them. 
That was really my last private con­versation with him, and I am glad that we talked of students, whether they are boys or men, because when he spoke of students, I could see how much he loved them. 
gone 
Now, our father has left us. I will miss him more than you do, if you are students who never met him. There are others, perhaps, who will miss him more than I do, since I did not see him that often. 
But what really helped, you see, was that 1 always knew he was there. I hope that now you will know he was always there, also. 
It is because they are there, working behind the scenes, supporting us in the unseen ways, that our fathers seem so God­like. 
And my father, and yours, was a very 
God-like man. 




SOUTH BEND: CHANGING 
by Art Ferranti 
Executive Editor 

The reality of redevelopment in the 
downtown section of South Bend is now an 
overtly visible project. Officially coded by 
the city redevelopers as R-66, the renewal 
process of the Michigan Street downtown 
area costs well over 100 million dollars. 
R-66 

Financed in part by the federal govern­
ment via a loan and grant project in which 
the federal government contributes 
2-3 of the needed funds and the city has to come up with the rest, the redevelopment program has entered its final states as the bulldozers and builders are constructing the new shopping and business centers and malls. 
Basically, R-66 extends from the middle of the St. Joseph River to Main St. on the west, 
LaSalle Street on the north, and Monroe 
Street as the southern boundary. Through 
the center of this district, parallel to Main 
and the River, is the now-blocked-off 
Mchigan Street. Michigan will be closed to 
automobile traffic and become officially 
known as Pedestrian Way, a mall area of 
trees, foundatins, benches, and rejuvenated 
stores. at a cost of $3.8 million. 
Traffic 

The crossstreetsof Jefferson , Wayne, Western, LaSalle, Washington, Monroe, and Colfax will remain open for traffic. However, Charles F. Lennon, the executive director for the redevelopment, said that such traffic will be "discouraged". 
Out of 249 small parcels of land in that area, only ten remain to be sold to developers. Lennon stated that the buyers are there but now the city can afford to be selective since the stipulations for the 
selling of the land state that the city can sell to whomever it wishes if the land is sold for its best use, not best price. For instance, on one of the remaining parcels, a buyer has submitted a plan for a restaurant-theater complex with a 1,000 person capacity. The city can decide if, for that part of town, that plan is the better of another one such as <hypothetically> a car wash. 
The Civic Center 

Some of the projects have already been completed, such as the new Post Ofice which began operation Mnday and which will employ an estimated 2,000 workers. Next to it, a new motel has risen.Othershave yet to begin construction, such as the "Convention-Cultural-Civic Center". Estimated at 12 millions dollars, the center will house an industrial museum, art center, exhibition units, restaurants, and con­vention space. It may be open 18 to 24 hours. 
Also in the works is a 100 foot wide green strip south of the Civic Center on the river for bicyclists and strollers. One entrance to the strip will be through a glass enclosed, environmentally controlled mall in the Civic Center. 
The Key 

Throughout all this time of redevelopment a monthly newsletter has been distributed to those affected by the construction. Included in these packets are newspaper clippings and new information. "People no longer ask us 'Why' but, instead offer·us suggestions," said Lennon. 
The reconstruction of the downtown area is handled bythree architectual firms. The breakdown of the financing costs of the other areas shows the Associates owned complex <northwest business district>at $68 million, the downtown area other than the mall at $23 million, and additional private investments at $20 million. 
The idea for redevelopment began twenty­one years ago in 1952. The trouble since then has been selling the idea to those merchants and such involved, said Lennon. "The whole key to the project is federal funding," stated Lennon. 
Other projects of renewal had been completed for some time before the downtown redevelopment began. Public housing first went up on Chapin Street. A Model Cities project, which Lennon worked on before the downtown project, was in­stituted on the Near West side. Another projectcalled E-3 rejuvenated the north east side of South Bend and project R-57 around Beck Lake behind the Bendix plant will be completed in the next few months. 

A L. U.M. Project 
When the parcels downtown first went on sale to developers and private interest, no one was buying, said C. Wayne Brownell, the assistant director of real estate. Real Estate Research, Inc. was called in from Chicago to study the project and make suggestions as a Land Use Marketability Project (L.U.M.). From their recom­mendations, the land finally started to sell. The date for the completion of the project is­the end of 1974. 
Pedestrian Way 
Construction has begun from the south end of the downtown area and worked its way north. The waterworksand electrical lines will be under Pedestrian Way and canopies and lighting fixtures will also decorate the 5'h block mall. One of the side purposes of the mall is to get people to leave their cars, use the buses, and leisurely walk about and shop. Main Street will be one way southward and Michigan St. Joseph Street will be one way north, forming an oval around the mall. Cross streets Washington and Jefferson are to be one way west and Jefferson is to be one way east. The other crossstreetswill remain two way. 
Executive Editor: Art Ferranti 

Photographer: Joe Raymond Picture Saver: Joe Abell
Dan Barrett 


The sweeping traffic lanes of Western, St. Joseph, and Jefferson (foreground) allow automobiles to circumvent Pedestrian Way. 
Focus: Indiana and South Bend Politics 
I hv Jack Colwt'll 
South Bend Tribune Political Writer

i 
Indiana. birthplace of the John Birch Society. home of the national headquarters
~ 
f 
of the American Legion and President Nixon ·s best state in 1968, often is regarded 
as cnnservative, hawkish and Republican.
( 
f 
Yet, in races for the U.S. Senate, Democrats with liberal voting records have won five straight times, going back to 1958. 
Sen. Vance Hartke, one of the first Senate 
( 
critics of the war in Vietnam, and Sen. Birch Bayh. who led the fight to blockthe Hayn­sworth and Carswell nominations to thef Supreme Court, pn.ject no conservative image. 
1 Can't Pigeonhole Indiana 
( ( 
( And in races for governor. Democrats have won two of the last four races, six of
f 
~ 
( the II races since the days of the Great Depression. In other words, Indiana, as now is true with most of the nation, cannot be pigeon­
( 
holed in terms of party politics.

( 
There often is a great deal of split-ticket
( 
voting. For example, when Nixon was

( 
making his best-in-the-nation showing in

( 
itJUtana i.t 1968. Bayh was winning re­
j 
election.

( ( ( 
Bowen

( 
( ( The state administration now is in ( Republican hands. ( The present governor, Otis R. Bowen, a ( medicaldoctor from tiny Bremen, R town ( about 20 miles south of South Bend. is a 
r moderate Republican who looks like a wild­f eyed liberal in comparison with the prior ( two governors, Democrat Roger D. ( Branigin and Republican Edgar D. Whit­( comb. ( Whitcomb, knownfor austerity inthinking I and government, frequently ta!1gled with 
f 
Bowen when Bowen was SIJeaker of the ( Indiana House of Representatives. 
( 
L 

Senator Birch Baye 
Bowen's victory in the gubernatorial race in 1972 was a blow for the ultra-conservative wing of the Indiana GOP. Ironically, Bowen's winresulted in large measure from the anti-McGovern tide which swept Indiana and helped the bowen-led Republican state ticket. 
The South Bend area is regarded in state politics as a Democratic bastion. In fact, the conservatives inindianapolis and Southern Indiana look with much suspicion on the South Bend area as some kind of a camp of radicalism. 

Actually, St. Joseph County is very represeutative of the nation in political leaning. 
From 1888, when there was a technical miss, until 1968, it was a case of: "As St. Joseph County goes, so goes the nation." The county had given a majority of votes to the presidential winner from the Grover Cleveland vs. Benajamin Harrison race in 1888 until Hubert Humphrey carried the county by exactly 300 votes over Richard Nixon in 1968. 
While the county voted for Democrat Cleveland rather than presidential winner Harrison in 1888, Cleveland actually had more votes nationwide and lost only in the Electoral College. 
Brademas 

The congressional district in which South Bend is located is represented by Congressman John Brademas, South Bend Democrat now in the No. 4 post in majority leadership in the U.S. House of Represen­tatives. 
Brad~mas, as chief deputy majority whip, 
ranks m leadership immediately behind 
House Speaker Carl Albert of Oklahoma 
Majority Leader Thomas P. (Tip) O'Neili 
of Massachusetts and Majority Whip John 
McFall of California. 
Brademas is in his eighth term in Congress and at the age of 46 iS r~garded as ar. outstanding prospect for future higher leadership, even speaker. 
The congressman has a liberal Democratic voting recore and, because of his education subcommittee chairmanshp and sponsorship of major educationacts, he has been referred to as "Mr. Education" in Congress. He also was onthe White House "enemies list" cited by John Dean in the Watergate hearings. 
South Bend 

The city of South Bend, while regarded as Democratic,does some political swinging. 
The present mayor, Jerry J. Miller ,is a Democrat who is in his first term and who will be seekikng re-election in 1975. The mayor before him was a Republican, Lloyd 
M. Allen, an activist mayor who won two terms, each taken by a landslide, after a prior Democratic administration had staved off a tax increase by letting streets crumble and progress move full speed back­ward. 

Congressman John Brademas 
While the state legislative delegation from St. Joseph County has been an all­Democratic group in most recent General Assembly seessions, a new single-member district plan enabled three Republican state representatives and one GOP state senator to win in 1972. The anti-McGovern tide also was a keyfactor. 
The 1974 Stake 
Four Democratic representatives and two Democratic senatorsalso are members of the St. Joseph County area delegation. The Assembly goes back into session in January. 
There is no election in Indiana this-fall. But political activity will pick up by the end of the year, with maneuvering and cam­paigning for the May primary. 
At stake in the 1974 election will be county offices, state legislative posts, Sen. Bayh's seat in the Senate and Brademas' ninth term hopes. 


Friday, September 21, 1973 Observer Supplement 

South Bend Theatres ­What they run 
Descriptions by RivPr Park Tht•atr4" Art Ferranti 2929 Mishawaka Ave 288-8488 Executivt• Editor Usually popular first or second run films for a week or two. 
:\von :\rt Tht>atn• Scottsdall' ThPatrl'
307 S. Michigan 288-7800 Miami and Ireland Rds. 291-4583Usually runs X-rated type films but does, 
on occassion, show first-run non-x types. First-run films, usually one feature, in a Duration of shows-1 week. Occassionly, a brand new theatre house. Duration of film second feature. showings is usually a week or two. 
Cinema Art Theatre or Tivoli Cinema Art 
South 84"nd Civic Th4"atre, Inc.
Thl'atre 
701 Portage Ave. 233-0683208 N. Main (Mishawaka) 259-4930 Live plays always presented. Must callUsually runs X-rated films for as long as for times, dates, and shows.
popular demand. Occassionally, "selec­
tedshorts" 
Starlite Driv4"-ln Theatre Colfax ThPatre 
McKinley Hiway (Osceola) 674-8252 
213 W. Colfax Ave. 233-4532 Usually first run films, usually with a 
Usually runs first run films for a week or second feature if neither film is first-rate for 
two. Rarely a second feature. one week. 
Moonlight Drive-In Theatr4" State ThPatr4" 
4000 S. Main 291-5191 214 S. Michigan 233-1676 
Second-run. occassional first run films, Usually first run films, rarely with a two features, two to three week durations. second feature: for one week. 
:\lorris ('ivic ,\uditorium 
Town and Country Th4"atr4" 
211 N. Michigan 232-6954 2340 Hickorv Rd. (Mishawaka) 259-9090 Ruhs live entertainment, from concerts f'irst-run films, best theatre building-wise and recitals to troupe play productions. 
in area, two to three week run -durations .. 
~ill's :11 Outdoor Thl'ater 
\\"pstern Driv4"-ln Th4"atre
2141 S. lith St. Rd 683-4272 
56445 Peppermint Rd. 288-1727Open all winter Second run, occassional first run films,Second-run films, occassionally first run two features, two to three week durations.
for a week run. 
ff 
!­

The 100 Center Complex, located in the 700 block of Lincolnway West in Mishawaka, is a $15 million development which seeks to preserve the Kamm and Schellinger Brewery. The Brewery was built in 1853; the brick and masonry are being preserved 

South Bend Symphony encourages studerts 
by Ellen Duffy on December 2 at 4:00 pm. Michael Staff Reporter Lorimer, classical guitarist, will be the guest. The next concert offers Christine 
The South Bend Symphony Orchestra Walevska, celloist, who will be playing from promises a good year. The symphony will The Planets by Holst. It takes place on play under the supervision of a new con­February 2at 8:00 pm. The fourth concert is ductor, Seymour Rubinstein, from New on March 17. John McCollum, tenor, will be York. There will be five concerts. With singing. each concert there is a guest. There are special student rates. For season tickets the 
Robert Hamilton, pianist, will perform in cost is: first floor, mezzanin -$9.00; first the final concert on April 20 at 8:00 pm.
balcony -$6.50; second, third balconies ­Some of his selections will bw: Overture to$4.50. For an individual concert it costs .Midsummer's Nght by Mendelssohn, Billy$2.50 per student. 
the Kid, and Brahm's Concerto No. 1. 
The Schedule 

Remember, the symphony will ac­company the guest at each performance. If The season opens on October 21 at 8:00 you are interested in purchasing tickets, see 
p.m. featuring the classical pianist, Dr. Biondo of the Notre Dame choral Philippe Entremont. The second concert is department. 
~­



L STR£.ET E. MONRO£ STREET 
----------·----------~·----·---------·-------------------------------~~ ·~ ..----------~~ 
~~ MONROE ST
g...................~a.~~ 
w ~ 
" 


Bus Schedules into South Bend and vicinity 
NOTRE DAME 

BENDIX MADISON -MISHAWAKA 
1! ct l' T : Xo. 6

'.:0." R 0 UTE ~. 1 .,. 0 :; ,\ \' T II R !' F 1: 1 !• A \' 
~IONDAY THRU FRIDAY ..., :: • ;,. y T :· June 4, 1973
" r 1 " Y Jun<-4, 1<J73
~ ~· 

'unt· t.. tCJ73 ..,.;-p·~::-t:;r:OT"':;• OL'TBOUND TNBOUll!>
1111!:0!·;...11 '·". 1.:·'' •:r.ocr L':, ~~·n~ .. :,\:·'!: L\', 100 :1t.nCK IX. Stii'T!I SII\IRI' LV. 100 BLOCK LV, HARRISO~ & LEXINGTON ~ISH.
·~._..:.:..:_<:mt;A:: ~}..___ !.t;r.A:-:'1' W • .JEFfERSON :..:· ,·.:.· !"' !": 
\!_._ _EAS,l~J :-.t~~ ~_I._
--..~.· --~.---w 

;t. ~t.n 1:.: tr• U.•. r,'j) .o(ss 12:::!5 455 N,' JP' ,\:· ,r,-· f"\: A'! AN Pt-1 A!1 AH PM 11 H~ ~2L'· Sl'· '~5 c,;s 1?55 5:!5 510 1040 340 5'25 1055 355 440 1040 340 525 1125 425 4:-': ',l..'J 11~ ~r, t:ji '•55 1:?5 555 S40 1ll0 410 555 1125 ,4?5 510 1110 410 555 1155 455 71 t• VJ 1L.·_. fl•• n~ 1'•:?5 155 r,~s f1lO 1140 '·40 6:?5 1155 455 540 1140 440 625 Ftl 525 1l.'· }f)t.f. ::lfJ ~I 7:;5 t: 5'i 2:?5 655 640 I"'! 510 65S I"'' 5!5 610 ~~ 510 655 1225 555 l· !ltt. ::L11 11() "~j u.:-) ::ss n5 710 1210 540 725 1225 555 61.0 121C 540 725 1255 625 
1 lL'. :HI• 7!.0 1155 3'5 755 740 1240 610 755 1255 6:!5 710 2140 •10 755 125 655 )!.f1 iilO 355 825 IHI> 110 640 825 1::!5 "55 740 HC: 540 825 155 725 .t.tt:.. 84fl £.25 655 140 1155 7:!5 810 1.(0 710 855 225 755 
#'! 

ST. mARY'S ijAO 710 155 
840 210 740 925 255 825 R 0 t' T E 'lo. 7 tV.O ::!40 IHu 955 :!55 K25 
IHI! 210 7l.O '.1:?5 125 755 910 240 810 9.55 325 855 
940 310 840 1025 355 925S A T ·~ ~ ' .\ \' ~ t\ ~: 11 A Y T II k t• r 1' ~ rt ,\ Y Hl111 310 !i40 1025 325 '115 
1010 1055Jun..· 4. 1'113 
;,:· ;.:·

~-?·' OI'Ti'.OI~Il 1 ~:Rill'::!• S ,; T ~-: ' A Y 
~F1 r•t(r 1:?111 t.trJ -.~s <t?s 1:!~5 l.55 L\'. 100 1\LUCI' L\'. '>T. ·:AAYS Ar-rive at ~!Uhawaka Center (Main & &.t,(J t,t.r; 1141) £.41) F.S:i ~n 1~55 :i25 w. JUT':-Rso~ UH,t.ll,/. A: ~ ,\:, ' ?.·' ,\:' ~; f"'• Lincolnvay) Inbound 15 & 45 past the 
MIAMI 

11•· t'Jtr, nr1 str: 7::!5 tMS 105 sss ~....,----~i·~-j~· A: ~· -· r;.: P.o: 6411 1040 .:!10 655 1055 :'~.5 !.our. nutbound 3 & 33 past the hour.
Northside -Mishawaka

1LIJ JfJLr· 11.0 540 n:o 1••55 155 li:!$ f;4U .~HJ 1,40 f,'jO :??M 458 710 1110 240 7:!5 1125 :?55 k 0 T t 'lo. 3 
SATl'RDAY -!.• l_ll.r• ~l.t) ~(, ~ss !t":o.l ?5J 7:?5 740 110 540 751J J:s ssa 81U I'' 31.0 8:?5 !'" 355 R 0 UTE llo, lo 
-.1'. tllt~ .:!liJ '>10 ..:!) 11~:) .!:'5 r.ss 710 J40 510 7211 •1 \M J:'H 11.0 ut.o :no 755 1155 325 
~ 0 :(flAY I I' l I' r II; 1 ll A Y 
A:.·: AH R1 PH

Jl'• 11'1 J~'i 755 810 340 610 ~z,, JSs '·~tl <V!O 1:!10 410 855 1225 425 AM P'l 1i.'J 74CJ 840 l.10 ~'j() !.::!'8 910 12-40 440
)55 -s:!5 415 1~55 L5S MOIIDAY TBRU FRIDAY 710 1110 240 755 1155 325 810 1..25 "55 910 ?40 no sto 955 125 n5 740 1140 310 82.5 PM 35.5 
II'TIIOt'Wfl 1:ti'IOl"!!P lc\~ ...1.!)!1_•.~--L....!-::!JC.!!_, ~-~~~"'!
••o 
1025 155 555 .: anaar,Y, 1973 810 P.-1 340 855 1225 425""~ 840 1210 410 925 1255 455
940 1010 140 540 
1010 "'" Otii'BOUliD All A.'' !"!'~ A.'l AM ~ OlTBflJ~;D AT J:;nnn-.1> AT Xo Service on Sundays 6. llolid..ys LY, P00T CFFICI 910 1240 440 955 125 525 .nn Ulf.n l4•' y,n 111n '10 
1fJ20 INllOUIID 
LV. ELDER STRD:'l' 
Slil't HIO 41•J litn utoo "'S
940 110 510 1025 155 555·;a :::crvicl: on Su~·~·· O't !lol idnv~ 
·~fh..!_-~f.l.A._ :!M.L~~~;J~I!.o---6.\n ll4o AJ.I'J wn 1'!-1 s:?o
1010 140 540 1055 225 625
P:-1 ~ P.-: A:-1 ~! AA 1!411 p.• 5l0 7111 UN Y,n
AM AM PM PM AM AM H4 J't,t 
1040 210 1125 255 nn t~lll u., Xn U&O &10 500 930 130 6oo 531 1001 201 i31 1t.tl U40 litO 110 Ill• ?40 251 '21 551 7'!.1 857 1027 530 1000 200 630 ¥11l 110 Non "40 t.t.a no 
221 351 511 657 827 fJ57 6o1 1031 231 7vl
321 4$1 621 757 fJ27 No Service on Sunday or Holidays lion t'O 71;; 'til) ~10 74~
6oo 1030 230 700 631 l101 301 731 .,,, ~1·' 7.:,n 
~AO :115 630 llOO 300 730 701 ll31 331 8o1 W.<1 ~.:.n 1110 l'>to :no
SATI'RIJAY 

A:< ~: ?-1 A.'1 P.1 l4n
~: 1111 "'-0 lr'ltn 74ft 1~10 310 750 1Z2K 328 
700 l130 330 8oo 

731 "' 401 831 730 PM 4oo 81oo 8o1 1201 431 910810 1210() )l.Q 8:!0 1258 )58 8oo 1200 43C B31 1231 501
!140 110 410 BSO 128 428 ,. ....
830 1230 510 901 101 500

910 140 440 420 158 458 y,r; ll'Jl·• ~·, 611) bll.t'l ;>toO 940 210 510 950 228 5~8 900 100 500 931 131 610 •an lnl.·l ~l.•l w.n Ill•· no 1010 24() 540 1020 258 558 
folon lltO ll'.' 71u 1J40 340 SATUiiDAY 
no U4r· 3411 74t'1 P." 4l!J 1040 1050 7oLil ~ .:;to Ill•• tnn 1.45 1110 1120 uro t:tn 440 tlt.ll 1~40 515 
llt..O 1150 
AM AM PM Ul AH AM PM PM lt/J 1'!40 5tu 9lt• uo S45 qt.:~ uc ~~~ 'MoO 140 610
530 1000 100 400 Oo1 1031 101 0.01 P'l Jl:ol ~ ~-: Jt;·~ A.Y; 630 1030 130 430 701 1101 131 1>31 '1221 221 421 757 1127 1057 730 1100 200 500 'lol 1131 201 501 1251 251 451 827 fJ57 1!27 830 ll30 230 ~·0 901 "' 231 531 
A'J~.~~ !!._T l_'A!'L_t.. A.o.;r._f.Lf', . ..:.n u••, lutn :!to 
Observer Supplement Friday, 
,...__...._______ 
I 
I 
I 
I•
I 
I I ' I I
• 
______...I I 
I 
r C,.TR£E,.. I 
I
I 
n 3 
I • 
L I 
AC"ULEVARO 
' 


435,!591


·-·-·, 

STREE.T 

APARTMENTS 
16 

AVIENUE  
770,178 sq  ft  
POST  OFFICE  

bus service 
continues 

during mall 
construction 
BOARD BUSES HERE! .,.,.,. pr1ma.ry loop 
CULTURAL 
5 


.:~==~····························­

ow··· D • ~~~1[_-_l
0 Dnn nn,/\,~ , : 
t·~u h" t'·.:". = 
.WASHINGTON A~ ~.. \ •
mm 

~~ 1 ·" ('',··, v\ : 2c" I , ' ~ :
LJ 

!lli~TV : •
DB 

··o"EFFERSON...[ o."i'o;:_J~l'jjS~a ~:I n3 ~~ 
: w=-~.'1 l :
• 
.GL I I ~ 

• 
411WAVNE --. ·--_-'





iDDDD:t T')~­

=~o·w•oS'-RN ..D 0 --=~ \\
•:!j ~ 1z ~ ,1 \ 
·-... -0

~ ~ ; ~~ rtl.-oaTAL I .... MONROE.. " -f'ACI~~--_.J ~ 
1••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••~ 
station1 slatlon 2 
"o\CIS".l'• 
•I'..ldl~ .. t ·r ' •JS.t~•wAlA II'UM VllL~r.t "'ldoJ",l!t '..tHPl{ ' . 
...~'.So \i'U~HSJN .:.~·. l i. 
~ 1~;.· 1:~ 
~ "' \': .l :.(Ol
(.,""It£ 
t ~ . ... '-t ·'fiO!l!tc 
slallon 3 
~ !\:'If",::-! .. j , .. : .. ~ • .:; 
((oit{U 
... :.J\::Or. 
"'''!'loll'! 
• ...~ llf .... 

,. . 121 321 521 tiS7 10:!7 115.i , . 900 l:i'OOP 300 •31 1201 301 61C ..·, ~ .. .. .\ . 151 351 551 930 1230 330 1•A>11231 331 i·,, '.;~ SOUTH BEND 
• ,•, .... -,.~\ t' 't Y: {' 
d,!;~; .,1 rl.IBLIC ,~!:?.,R~~:.~~~ CORP. 
::o S•rvi<::e on Su~:~y or 11ol id:~ys (. ; All trtpa t? F."..deF strt.t' ~.-~~ • ~-~ ~:~t. .,. .. 'i 
PHONE 232...171

No 5PM1N ~. £ .l.da.i ~~ Boll4AJ• .·· •. ,''c.•..~-. .l. 
Friday, September 21, 1973 the observer 1 1 
Self -protection: SMC students take note 

A St. Mary's student demonstrates how not to ride a bike 11long the 
main road. SMC security officers emphasize the necessity to use the bike paths. (Photo by Judy Rauenhorst) 
Quello nominated for FCC position 
WASHINGTON <UPIJ -De­

spite prnbable consumer group 
opposition, President Nixon 
Thursday nominated James H. 
Quello, a former vice president 
of Capital Cities Broadcasting 
Corp., to a seven-year term on 
the Federal Communications 
Commission <FCC>. 
If approved by the Senate, Quello, 69, would succeed Nicholas Johnson, a frequent critic of the broadcast industry whose term expired June 30. 
Quello, of Grosse Pointe Park, Mich., is a veteran of the broadcast industry who retired in 1972 as vice president of Capital Cities and manager of one of the company's stations, WJR in Detroit. He is a graduate of Michigan State University. 
Quello's nomination had been rumored for weeks and several critics including Ralph Nader, members of Congress, citizens' consumer groups and Johnson himself -are expected to oppose it when it comes before the Senate Communica­tions subcommittee. 
Sen. John 0. Pastore, D-R.I., the panel's chairman, has not yet scheduled hearings on the nomination, a spokesman said. 
The White House reportedly considered some 50 candidates for the post before deciding on Quello, who told reporters several weeks ago that he felt he was qualified for the job because of his professional background and because his age would bar him from using the job as a stepping stone for advancement. 
LOWEST YOUTH FARES TO EUROPE 





$!00 
Ages 12 thru 23 
~ 

Round·trip jet, New York to Luxembourg in the heart of Europe, Sept. thru May for stays of up to a year. Show proof of age. Book within 30 days of your flight. 
YOU CAN BE IN EUROPE TOMORROW! Icelandic Airlines also offers one·week car, rail and ski tours to Europe, Nov. thru March. Get details on our youth and student fares and lowest-cost tours to Europe of any scheduled airline. See 
your travel agent. 
r '"fo'";'icelandiCAiriT'ne'S_____1 630 Fifth Ave.. N.Y.. N.Y. 10020 1 
(212) PL 7·8585. Toll Free outside I 
N.Y. State (800) 221-9760 Send folder CN on Lowest Youth I Fares to Europe 0 Tours 0 I 
Name I Street I 
c~ l 
State Zip I My travel agent is I 
ICELANDIC I I 
L-------------J 
By Judy Rauenhorst Starr Reporter 
Self-protection for St. Mary's students was the subject for a 
conference held Wednesday at the office of the Dean of Students, Kathleen Mulaney. Anthony Kovatch, Director of St. Mary's Security, along with Joanne Garrett, Student Affairs Com­missioner and Ann Smith, Hall Life Commissioner, presented basic rules for girls to follow for their own safety. 
With one attempted assault on campus already this year. Kovatch warned girls never to walk alone at night. "If anything does happen or even if anyone peculiar ap­proaches you, report it to Security immediately," said Kovatch. He added that all information is kept confidential. 
Mulaney said that girls walking or bicycling down the main 
road is a major headache for security and anyone driving down the road. She urged that all students use the south path for bikes, keeping the north path open for pedestrians. Kovatch added that bids have been taken for new lighting on the south path, and that he expects the lights to be in by winter. Many girls have told him the path was too dark to use. 
The group also warned against hitch-hiking. Kovatch cautioned girls that :lo hitch-hike to do so only in g1 oups or take rides only from people they know. He added cannot get back to campus, call a cab," Mulaney suggested. "The Hall Director will lend you the money," 
that  all  girls  should  stay  away  
from strange cars.  
"If  you  are  ever  stuck  and  

In any emergency situation on the Notre Dame campus, girls can phone N.D. Secu:·!ty. They will take the girl to the gate where SMC Security will pick her up. "Many girls have been walking because of the inefficient bus route," Garrett explained. She has heard com­plants from girls who waited at the Grotto for a bus which only passed them by. Student self protection has been complicated by problems with the shuttle-bus service. 
ND VS. NORTHWESTERN 

EVERYONE WELCOME! ! 

Come to the Pre-Game Warmup at 

LOUIE'S BAR 
Sat. Sep. 22 OPEN NIGHTLY 9 am-? 744 N. Notre Dame 
FROM THE GOLD DOME TO THE GOLDEN TRIANGLE 
NO AT PITTSBURGH-WEEKEND OF NOV. 12 
Ticket Transportation (Round Trip) ONLY $55 2 nites at Wm. Penn Hotel 
(Pitt Club J'Aembers $50)
Pep Rally in Ballroom Fri. Nite VICTORY PARTY SAT. NITE 
Ticket & 

Transportation $33 (Members $30) 
Meeting Sun., Sept. 23 • 7:30 pm in Amphitheater at LaFortune for signups and questions. Non-refundable deposit needed by following Sunday (Sept. 30) 
ALSO AT MEETING WILL BE DISCUSSED FOLLOWING TRIPS: 
+SEMESTER BREAK +PLAY OFF or WORLD SERlE'S (Beat 'em Sues!!!) +Too early to think about Franco in the Super Bowl? 
ALL QUESTIONS -BOB 2144 
NOW AVAILABLE AT THE NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
THE GLORY 
OF 


NOTRE DAME 
It is a volume no Notre Dame fan can be without. It is a volume no football fan can do without. It is the story of Notre Dame football, covered by the magazine and the writers that were there as each chapter was unfolding. And it is the story of those kids who 
came  up  out  of  the  
railroad  towns  and  
cities  and  farms,  and  

who saw those dreams fulfilled--not only for personal glory, but for The Glory of Notre Dame. 
...$6.95 

also available 
PARSEGHIAN AND NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL 
by Ara Parseghian and Tom Pagna ...$9.95 
2nd Floor 


NOTRE  DAME:  ITS  
PEOPLE  AND  
LEGI<:NDS  

by Francis Wallace 
r----------­
Friday, September 21, 1973
12 
the observer 

•



Sites for concess1on stands designated 
by \'irginia McGowan Staff Reporter 
Seventeen sites have been assigned for the operation of food concession stands on home football Saturdays, announced Fr. Dave Schlaver, director of student ac­tivities. 

Each of the ten halls and 23 clubs or organizations that applied will be able to operate a stand for two of the four home games, a set-up similar to last year's. 
Fr. Schlaver asked that a_ll hall and club representatives pick up 
lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllli tlllllllllllllllllll 
A · t

d S · 
HOf Dog Stan lte SSlgnmen S 
B.,oksotre 
l=ieldh,·use 
L,,w .School 
0 Shag 
5. Dinino LaFortune E·,qineering D·llon Flilq Pole P.c•S. Ad. '\ Quild r-~·ween Far & B. P. 

~ 
) "-Quad) za·1m & c. H,'warct t,lumni 
Walsh

) 
N. Dining 
S:~rin

' 
.. 9-22  .. 10-6  .. I0-27  Il-l  
N.W.  MSU  usc  NAVY  
Ci•eerleaders Finance Malh Club Rowing Club Ski Club AICHE ODE Soccer Baltic AED  Glee Club Management Physics Celtic Boxing Joint Engin. Ujaama College Rep. AIAA lnt'l Stud.  Dolphin AIAA CheerleaRders Co11ege ep.Managenment Baltic Club Radio Club ODE Math Rowing  Flanner Celtic Arnold Air Glee ClubAED-Pre-Med Physics Soccer Finance Joint Engin. Uiaama  
Handball  Radio  Boxing  AICHE  
4 Halls  4 Halls  4 Halls  4 Halls  
Pangborn Fisher  Howard Alumni  Pangborn Fisher  Howard Alumni  
Badin  Walsh  Badin  Walsh  
Flanner  Arnold Air  Handball  Ski Club  
sr. Ed's  Sarin  St. Ed's  Sorin  

) 
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
~ 
Shirley Chisholm to speak
l 
) Shirley Chisholm, Law School this year. Congresswoman from New York, Mrs. Chisholm, the first black will speak at Notre Dame Monday woman to run for presidency of the night. United States in 1972, will speak at 
Admission is free. This guest 8 p.m. in Washington Hall. appearance is sponsored by the Mrs. Chisholm, a native of Academic Commission and the Brooklyn, is the Democratic 
i l 
Tapes settleznent fails 
WASHINGTON <UPI> -After a series of court-suggested negotiating sessions, White House,j lawyers and special prosecutor 
\rchibald Cox have failed to reach a settlement in the historic Watergate tapes battle. 

{ The collapse of the negotiations, announced by both sides late
I' 
,·, Thursday. means that the two­month long constitutional dispute
I~ over possession of President Nixon's tape recordings wll almost certainly have to be decided by the
j 
Supreme Court. 

Cox and President Nixon's chiefJ lawyer, Prof. Charles Alan Wright, advised the CS Circuit Court of
) 
l 
Appeals for the District of Columbia that after ler.gthy~ meetings -on Monday, Tuesday a d Thursday -no compromise could be reached on the impasse. The appeals panel had suggested that the two sides attempt to reach an 
out-of-<:ourt settlement. "I regret to advise the court that

'1 
the sincere efforts were not

' 
fruitful." Cox and Wright each wrote m separate letters addressed to the court clerk. "All par­ticipants in these conversations have agreed that we shall say nothing about tern except to make this report to the court." 

The dispute now reverts back to te appeals court, which will make a decision. Whichever way the court rules, the decision is certain to be appealed immediately to the Supreme Court. 
Cox subpoenaed the tapes in July, shortly after their existence was disclosed at the Senate Watergate hearings. Nixon refused to comply and 
Cox filed suit to get them. Chief US District Judge John Sirica, who also presided at the trial of the original seven Watergate defen­dants in January, ordered the President to tur the tapes over to him so he could decide what portions of them, if any, should go to the grand jury. The Whie House then asked the appeals court to overturn Sirica 's ruling and Cox asked that it be altered to order that the tapes bw delivered directly to the grand jurz. 
Start your Y.eekend at ...
~ 
l 
I 
\ 
( 
Bulla Shed
'5 
( Corner of Bulla and Juniper
:5 
1) 
across from Grace Tower)
1) 
I I: 
') ( ') 
:i I~ 
5 
~~ 
I)
I,
,I 
1) 1) 
MASS AND DINNER 
:j 
I( 
lII 

Friday 5:00 p.m. 
. 
their permits t run the concessions in his office today. He also noted that officers from both Security and the St. Joseph's County Health Department would be checking for permits and any health regulation violations. Managers of the stands must have the permit with them to 
show the officers on demand. 
Cooperation among the alter­nating halls and organizations and selection of the annually most profitable sites will assure all participants of making a good profit without the intense rivalries of some previous years, suggestedF S hi "All • t · t 
r .. c aver. were rymg o do IS make sure they make money on it without making this a cut­throat type thing." 
The hamburger and hot dog stands wil sell food from about ten in the morning until just before the 
game begins. Traditionally, crowd-attracting performances 
are offered alongside the com­peting stands to fulfill the "be merry"requirement of the "Eat, drink and" cliche. Using "a little bit of salesmanship and a gimmick as well can go a long way in the concession profit game, advised Fr. Schlaver. 
The food concessions will nrnvide clubs and halls with an 
W~t <linlnnial 
Janrakr -oust 
estimated $50-$60 profit, the perpetually ravenous N.D. students with a snack, and the returning alumni with a nostalgic lunch. "I'm optimistic," sayed Fr. Schlaver of the stands' success. "I thi~k it'll go well. People always enJOY the easy picnic at­mosphere." 


representative of the twelfth district in New York. She was a member of the New York State Assembly from 1964-1968 and the 91st-92nd U.S. Congress. 
Congresswoman Chisholm received a B.A. degree from Brooklyn College, cum laude and an M.A. from Columbia Univer­
sity. 
A former nursery school teacher and director,she was awarded for outstanding work in the field of child welfare by the Women's Council of Brooklyn in 1957. In 1963, she received the Key Woman of the Year award and 1965 the Woman of Achievement Award presented by the Key Women, Inc. 

COLUMS:A PtCTURES PRESENTS ,t. ~I LV BY CONRAD ROOKS· 1-ifRVAI'.Jp.,j HESSE S 
I100HAATHA ·STARRING SMASH: KAPOOR · SIMI GAR( 'hAL 
PROOUCfD 01RECTEC AND WRITTEN ~OR THE SCREEN BY CONRAD RQOK:S · 
PHOTOGRAPHED BY SVEN P~Yt<\IIST p ........ ~ S•O... R'-·~~·-~·<.~~~...~..~. 
TODAY AT 6:30, 8:00, 9:30. SAT. & SUN. AT 2:00, 3:30, 5:00, 6:30, 8:00, 9:30 
M J J :t"i .1. W A K ll A'II . A '7 3 0 rH 
call 288-8482 for directions 

~~SIDD 





isanexquisitell!Q1~i~r 
~~Both in tnusic and visible beautythe picture is a continuing delight:' 
-ARCHER WINSTEN. NY PoSI 
~~Impossibly 
beautiful io the eye. Visually exquisite:' 
-BERNARD DREW. G•nnett News Servtce 
~~A visuallv exquisite film ... an unusual and welcotne expericnce." 
-WILLIAM WOLF. Cuo 
"Enjoy a snack or dinner" 
35 Varieties of Pancakes 
Chicken  -Steak  -Sandwiches  
II U.S. 31  (Oixieway) North  Your Host  
~Acr~s~  from Holiday Inn)  Bob Edwards  '50  

~=====-=:.======-====================. 
SMC COFFEEHOUSE 


9:30 TONIGHTII l :30 a.m. 

*PETE SNAKE *TOM FAUGHT 
BENEATH FREE MUNCHIES 
GOODIESCAfETERIA 
~~A SJ)t·.eial fihn for spt·<·ial au< iences., f(n· devotees of IIesse's novels., for adn1irers of the cxoti<·')and f(n· everyone 



~ECIALIZES IN 
~~ ·~~ CUSTOM 
-k~ WORK! 





GET BACK TO THE BOOKS. Back and bike packs' Natural canvas totes, stamped with 
DECORATIVE GLASS 
eight colorful designs and slogans. 12" x 
17 1:2 ". Pack one with books, bedch 
ITEMS? 

durls, or picnic surprises. . ..... $2.99 ­
$6.50 
UNIQUE & DISTINCTIVE IN PIER 1's UNI:JRGROUND! 


OUR GLASS BLOWERS CAN MAKE IT I ~
TURN ON 
{BLOWNITEMSOR ~~\~~~.

CONTEMPORARY LIGHTS! 
DECORATIVE WEAVE) • \./­
There's a whole new lamp department at Pier 
1. It's completely contemporary. Here's a sample: Hanging and Wall lamps; Tripod lamps; Hi-Intensity desk lamps; Floor lamps. 20 new styles at Pier 1 prices. _ $30.00

$2.88 



I 







Shop: Monday-Saturday 10-10, Sunday 10-8 
GO

100 Center Complex Mishawaka 
In the Old Kamm's Brewery 
UNDERGROUND 
LONDON. PARIS. ANTWERP. ROTIERDAM. SYDNEY. MELBOURNE. TORONTO. MONTREAL. VANCOUVER. NEW YORK. BOSTON. MIAMI. PHILIDELPHIA. CHICAGO. DETROIT. PITTSBURGH. HOUSTON, DALLAS. PHOENIX. SAN FRANCISCO, SEATTLE, LOS ANGELES. 
TODAY!
• 


Bean bags and bamboo beads. Just in time for fall. 
Dramatize your habitat. Bean bag chairs in fresh wet hues. Sunshine Yellow, Parrot Green, Ultra Blue, Brite Brown and more. Extra heavy. Double stitched. Double zippered. Sink down into utter comfort. 

2' X 3' ____ $4.50 3'X 5'____ $6.00 
New experiences await 
you in the ancient cellars 
beneath the Pier. 
We built our pier in the old brewery on Center Street. Now we've turned its ancient cellars into shops. What better place? Its walls have weathered the creaks and groans and joys of life since 1858. It's an intimate and earthy place to browse and shop. The old cellars, beneath the Pier. 

SOMETHING SPECIAL IN STONEWARE? PIER l's UNDERGROUND POTTER 
the observer Friday, September 21, 1973
14 
''t ' l -. ' ~I • 

Laxity plagues communications
\, 
Ry D:\\'1[) JE!\:SEN 
SAC'RAI\lENTO, Calif. <UPI) -Drinking-on-the-job, poorly trained clerks and a heroin addict caused at least 30 ,-pcurity "compromises" at a l .. S. communications center handling intelligence messages in Saigon. a former employe !'aid Thursday. 
Despite the alleged security violations during the first six months of this year, the U.S. government in June renewed a contract with an ITT subsidiary to run the center. 
Steven Moreland Davis of Sacramento, a former top secret document coordinator at the center, said in an interview that the violations were "cov­ered up" by his superiors. 

A spokesman for the ITT subsidiary said in response to Davis' charges: "Our work is satisfactory." 
He said all Davis' complaints have been referred to the U.S. Army ad "investigated and closed to their satisfaction." 
A former co-worker, Richard Bishop of San Bernardino, corroborated Davis' general complaints about security at tl. center, whose total em­ployes ranged from 30 to 60. 
"I have never seen anything like it," said Bishop, a retired Air Force sergeant. 
The Saigon center, formerly manned by U.S. Army Person-violations "approximately 100 times orally and four or five times in writing." 
He was employed from Jan. 9, 1973, to June 30, 1973, at Site 662 by Federal Electric Corp. <FEC> of Paramus, N.J., which calls itself a "worldwide service associate of ITT." 
Davis, who once served in Army intelligence as an enlist­
nel, is now under the U.S.
28 years later 

Defense Attache Office in South 
Vietnam. Davis said it receives 
. d !~T t G top secret and other highly
East an ~res ermany ~~~t~if~~us~e:~:g~:n:::~. the 
Davis, 23, said he complainedadmitted to United Nations\_abou_tth_e 
R_v BHlTE W. :\fl!NN Wednesday welcomed the two l'\:TTED :'\:ATIONS <UPI>­German states into member­\ T,.n·nty-Pight years after the ship.
1­
.-\llied powers of World War II The delegates of 29 nations defeated and dismembered stood in the 28th annual session 1.":ermany in the name of the of the U.N. General Assembly l'nited Nations, the U.N. as the German Federal Repub-
SIVC President sets environmental plCDls 
Even though Dr. Edward L. Henry. Saint :\lary's President, resigned as the director of the Center for !he Study of Local Government two years ago to accept his current position, his concerns for the environment and governmental planning continue. 
A 12 volume report, the outcome of two years of study by an in­terdisciplinary team, was issued this month by the Center for the Study of Local Government at St. John's University, Collegeville, :\1innesota. for the :\iinnesota State Planning Agency. Henry, co­author of the study, was mayor of St. Cloud. Minnesota from 1964-70. 
The report focused on en­

'· vironnwntal problems connected with the location of new energy complexes. and has warned that failure of the states to take jurisdiction of land-use planning for power plants could well have undesirable repercussions for Years to come. · The report warned that to abide by the traditional laissez faire app:-oach in which local govern­mental units alone determine where and h')w to license power utilities would result in serious congestion and pollution problems in the future. Dr. Henry urged, "A delicate balance must be sought in the license granting procedures, one that will not violate the essentials of due process but will avoid some of the delays of repeated ad­ministrative hearings and court tests that have cha:-acterized the process to date in many states. "Failure to strike this balance will either res:.rlt in undesirable construction sites with mounting problems of pollution and congestion or of brownouts and 
blackouts caused by failu,·e of production to keep pace rising demand because of construction delays, " Henry 
He indicated that a process of licensing such plants in the future ought to consider the unput of local governme11tal units through local public hearings but that ultimately an authority with a broader per­
such as a state com­ought to have final judgement. 
The report sets up a model that provides four-year leadtime in the site selection and granting procedure bet­
ween application and start of construction. It also recommends a 10 year rolling inventory of plant sites to be accumulated for ad­vance study and analysis. Such studies might properly be done, Henry said. by colleges and universitie~ which would bring a certain detachment and minimize political pressures for biased conclusions. 
Other recommendations include a state ombudsman who would organize the testimony of en­vironmentalists and other groups for presentation to local hearing examiners on the suitability of proposed sites and a streamlined licensing procedure. 
The report includes chapters on the nature of the siting problem; a study of attitudes held by en­vironmental groups, power companies and and governmental 
bodies in Minnesota on this issue; criteria that should govern decisions regarding the location of a particular plant; a survey of current and pending legislation in 
states that have poineered systems to control the geographical location of power producing complexes; and 11 volumes of 
appendices . 
Thge report was researched and written. by Dennis Ferche; for­merly of The CSLG and now a state legislative researcher; Dr. Dennis Kleinsasser, director of the CSLG: James Olila, head of the Rural Crime and Justice Institute of the CSLG; and Dr. Henry, former CSLG director, currently president 
of Saint Mary's College. 

lie and the German Democratic Republic formally became members. 
West German foreign minis­ter Walter Scheel and East German Foreign Minister Otto Winzer both hailed the action as an indication that tensions between nations can be peace­fully resolved. 
But Winzer did not join in Scheel's expressions of hope that Germany-"origin and victim of war"-someday will be one nation again. 
Along with newly independent Bahamas, the two Germanys were elected to membership Tuesday. raising the U.N.'s membership to 135 nations. 
The black, red and gold flags of the two German states, similar in appearance, had heen ceremoniously hoisted outside U.N. headquarters Tuesday morning along with the black, blue and yellow banner of the Bahamas. 
Vacca to recei\e 
Sheedy award for teaching 
by Paul Colgan Starr Rt:'porter 
The Charles E. Sheedy Award for Excellence in Teaching will be awarded to Robert A. Vacca at 5 
p.m. today in room 102 of the Center for Continuing Education. A sherry hour will follow. All students and faculty are invited to attend. 
The Sheedy award represents the highest honor given by students to a teacher in the College of Arts and Letters. Past recipients in­clude Joseph Evans, Francis O'Malley, and William Storey. 
A special student committee is formed every spring to choose the recipient for that year. 
Mr. Vacca is an Assistant Professor of Modern Languages and has been teaching in that department since 1969. He received his B.A. from Marquette University and his Ph.D. from the Committee on Social Thought at the University of Chicago. 
His wife, Linnea, teaches in the English department at Saint Mary's. 
MAIN CHURCI-t 
Sunday Masses 
5:15 p.m. Sat.  Fr.  Robert  Griffin,  C. S.C.  
9:30 a.m.  Sun  Fr. James S hilts, C.S.C.  
10:45 p.m. Sun  Fr.  Nathan  Mitchell  C.S.C.  
12:15 p.m. Sun.  Fr.  William  Toohey,  C.S.C.  
evenson  .m.  

ed man, said he decided to make his allegations public because he was concerned he 
would be made a "scapegoat." 
w~sav!~e~~~tsshistoj 0~u~ec:e~~ir~~ 
ments," according to an FEC 
a_ppar_ent_secu_rity_doc_ume_nthe_sho_wed_UPI----,. 
/ $_r.tf:.r;.
I ..:> -~~·-i)~'
I.;·· r. 
-'l 

""\'•-tiltS: MC..'t.J '~o.r:'=. T~u'8 fRi 9 Alo :--:1(' F'M 
·/ro .')A .. o .\i... 12 jtro.'(JON 
~•.Plr:',' '->'~IAClf
fRoGERs · /I 
$fl.;V,(.
~[ Optic:1i f 
\ 

• ~'"'"" ~"H lJ. 
~ ....-.1
'~~·/,;~~:;.;
........__,.~· 

~~::'c·£ ~4ll 
SOUIKI'r[ST 
f J' f.' ... up SJ'f'\ \t••t\ D.,., I 4~ l ~'> p.,~.n,. ~91 4'18j '> ~~ I 4~ & 9 ~') p,. 

...

Friday, September 21, 1973 the observer 
15 

Mansfield comments on investigation 
'Vice-President innocent until proven guilty 
WASHINGTON (UPI) --With Vice President Spiro T. Agnew reported ready to deny reports he will resign, Senate Demo­cratic Leader Mike Mansfield declared Thursday that Agnew should not be presumed guilty simply because he is under investigation in a political kickback scheme. 
"The guy is innocent until proven guilty," Mansfield said, apparently trying to end speculation that some congress­men might initiate impeach­ment proceedings against Agnew. 
"We ought to let him have the benefit of the doubt ... rather than create misassump­
tions and add fuel to the 
flame." 
Mansfield spoke out shortly after columnists Rowland Evans and Robert Novak 
reported that Agnew is "now
all but persuaded ... to prepare a flat denial" of rumors that he intended to resign this week. The denial, they said, would be 
b) . 

rnade pu 1c "through some 
unidentified forum that would dramatically reach the nation." The White House denied 
again Thursday that it had put ~~Jgn:ressure on Agnew to Sen. James L. Buckley, CR­
N.Y., said he hoped reports that resignation rumors origi­nated in the White House were 
t 'B 

not rue, ' ut if they have a 
should be put on notice that 
Republicans and Americans in 
general will not take kindly to 
such shabby, such cowardly 
treatment of the vice president 
of the United States." 
The possibility of impeach­

ment action against Agnew 
arose when a group of House 
Democrats met Wednesday to 
di!'"USS allegations against the 
vice president. The same 
group, led by Rep. John 
Conyers of Michigan, explored 
the possibility of impeachment 
proceedings against President 
Nixon earlier this year. 
Agnew, who was Baltimore 

County executive and Maryland 
governor before becoming vice 
president in 1969, was notified 
last month that he was under 
investigation in Baltimore in an 
alleged scheme in which 
politicians accepted kickbacks 
from state contractors. 
Resuming its investigation 

Thursday, a federal grand jury 
in Baltimore met for one hour 
believed to have heard three 
witnesses. Sources said that no 
evidence will be presented to 
the grand jury about Agnew 
until at least late next week. 
Mansfield said Congress 

would be faced with legislative 
Zeffirelli film to be shoWQ 
by Jane Thornton Staff Reporter 

Franco Zeffirelli's Romeo and Juliet will highlight the Shakespeare Film Festival, AssociateEriglish Professor Paul Rathburn announced Tuesday. To be shown Dec. 3 at 7 and 10 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium, the film is free of charge for all ND students and faculty members. 
Commenting on the program as a whole, Rathburn said "This is an imaginative use of college funds. The series of films adds up to a kind of Free University Course in Shakespeare. It tends to restore your faith that admini~~r$ ·in this place are concerned firsl·and1 foremost with teaching'.!!.:-:-.· -., · 
were started.
problems if impeachment pro­
At the White House, Deputy
ceedings were initiated against 
Press Secretary Gerald L.
Agnew. He added he believed 
Warren refused to say whether
Attorney General Elliot L. 
Nixon wants Agnew to resign.
Richardson would consult con­
"We will have no comment on
gressional leaders of both 
this entire matter until the
parties if such proceedings 
Agnevv tries to clear political reputation of kickback charges 
ATLANTA <UPI) Vice 
President Spiro Agnew was quoted Thursday as saying he felt as though he were "fighting a division with a platoon" in his 
battle to clear himself of political kickback charges. Georgia Gov. Jimmy Carter said the vice president made the statement during a tele­
phone conversation he had with
h · 

lm Wednesday night. Carter
said he called Agnew to cheer 
him up, but that the vice president seemed pessimistic.
"I h d
appene to fe~l he 

(Agnew) needed a fnendly V?ice" C~rter explained. The vice p~esldent has been ':'e? accessible to the nation s governors.
Carter said Agnew told him 
he was "facing a very difficult situation." 
"I don't have any way of knowing whether he is guilty of any charges or not," Carter said, but added he felt it was 
wrong to bring accusat1"ons before any evidence was produced. A federal grand jury resumed its investigation of the case in 
Baltimore Thursday.
St d t k•ll d • 
U en 1 e ln money argument 
BATON -One stu ROUGE, dent was  La. <UPI) killed and  
another  wounded  Thursday  

during an apparent argument over money in the student union building of Southern 
University's student union buil­
ding. 

basis in fact, those responsible .....--------------------------• 
LLJ ND
I 
SPECIAL RATE
r-­
ALL FOUR PLAYS 
Student-Faculty ND-sMC Staff 
SMC 
$5.50
THEATRE 
SEASON 1973-74 


John Gay's ribald musical romp Apr. 26, 27, May 2, 3, 4 at 8:30p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium (St. Mary's) 
Name •.•••••••••.•••.•.•.•.•.•••••...•••.•••.•••••....••...•...•.•••.••.••••••••.•••.•.•....••.•• Address. .••••.•.•.•••.•••••.•••.•.•.•.•.•••••.•••••••••.•.•.••..•.••••..•••.•.•..•••••..••••••... 
City .........•...•.•.....•.•.•...•..... State...........•............... Zip .....•.......•.•. Please send ............... subscriptions at (circle price) . j$5.50 Totals ................................................................. . Indicate date choice for each play: 
RICHARD ................................... CARNIVAL .......................... . HOMECOMING ........................... OPERA .................................. . 
MMI check for ..._nt dUe ond stJomped/-envelope fo< return of tickets to> NOI5MC n-cr., Notre o.mo. lndi•na 46556. S.t pret.......,. Vlill 1» given if ordllr ~W8o:!0-73.·fNwious sat location nat ~~ dut tQ-. 
A ICIWduting pOl~ "'''"' ,t. ·• -• " I
I 

attorney general completes his work," he said. "Any comment would be improper and unfair." 
But Warren rejected a Washington Post report quoting an eastern Republican as saying Agnew's resignation would give Nixon "an oppor­tunity to set a whole new tone to the administration." Warren said it "absolutely does not reflect the thinking of the President." 
The Post also quoted a key White House official as predicF ing Agnew would resign "in the next few weeks." Warren said this unnamed source was not representing the President's view. 
At a diplomatic reception the vice president attended W~dnesday night, one of his _fnends commented: "The vice president told me he is not resigning. You can say that he said he was standing firm in face of all these charges and is going to stay on and see the thing through." 
Student Govt Budget Allocation 
Any campus organization wishing to apply for Student Govt. fund. must report to the Student Govt. Treasurer's office 
Today or Tarrxrow afternoon by 5:00 p.m. 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 
Badly need 2 GA tix for Nor· thwestern game . Please call Debbie 5149. 
Need 1 GA ticket for Nor­thwestern. Call Jeff 8419. 
Housemate wanted. Portage Av. area. 233-3202. 
Needed : 2 GA tix to So. Cal . Will pay good price. Please call Jim 283-1072. 
Really need 2 Norhtwestern GA tix; please call 6956. 
Need 2 Northwestern GA tix . Call Chris 1469. 
Need housemate close to campus. S50 + utilities. 234· 7022 MJim. 
2 GA tix to Northwestern . Phone 4112 or 4970. 
1 Norhwestern ticket· GA or student. Call Linda 5-428. 
Need 2 GA Northwestern tix . Call John 8898 evenings. 
Desperately need 2 GA tix to Northwestern game. Call Marybeth 4003 
Waiters and waitresses part time no experience necessary. Call Chris May , South Bend Country Club. 287-3373. 
Need 2 or 3 tix for Nor­thwestern game. Call 3146 George. 
HOUSEMATE STILL NEEDED to share newly decorated, furnished house with 2 seniors. Large living room , 2 bedrooms, kit· chen ;excellent location. 420 St. Vincent. Transportation to campus availble. Call 232-5312. 
COLLEGE STUDENTS: Part time work with major ap­pliance corp. Hours flexible, 20 hrs. or more per week. Call 272· 8303 for interview. 
Need GA tix to USC + MSU games. Call 6864. 
Need 2 USC GA tix . Will pay anything, but must be notified soon. Ted 664. 
1 GA tix MSU. Call Mike 234· 8810. 
Need 2 GA Navy tix. Call Hohn 8848 evenings. 
. t"eeP. :.tix. ~ MSJ! game :: • <:611 , 119 
• Chns at 6586: . 
Desperately need GA tix for the Army and Navy games. Call 1364. 
4 GA tix to MSU . Call HJohn 
282-1568. 

2 GA Southern Cal. tix 272-0913 in evening. 
DEsperatly need 4 USC tix . Will Pay. Call Pat 3273. 
RIDES WANTED 
Need ride for 2, west on 1·80 Fri. Sept. 28. Destination: Davenport. Will share ex. penses. Please. Call 5124. 
NOTICES 
Sept. 22: Frodo's and Bilbo's Birthdays, The Great Party in 
S. R. 1401 when the ring comes to Frodo. 
EARN TOP MONEY! Part time promoting student travel. Call or write(include your telephone number): VAGABOND TOURS, Box 549, Evanston , Ill. 60204. (312) 328· 0110. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Silver wine aviators eveglasses 
lost Between Moreau Hall (SMC) and NO. Please Call Chris 3403. 
Lost Black wallet Mon on campus. Keep the cash but return the rest. Call Bill Longenbaker, 232-7886, 
Lost. Wilson NFL pro football near Stanford Hall last Friday 
evening.  Please  Return.  
Reward .  Call  Bob 8636·  200  
Stanford.  

PERSONAL 
Bilbo's and frodo's birthday will be celebrated on the South Quad at 11:30 am on Saturday. Bring your wine and your rage. 
Love, Aragarn, son of Arathorn. 
Molly: Thanks for all the wonderful memories in Munich! DAve, Larry, Suzie, 
FOR SALE 
Sony -TC 127 Cassette stereo deck. Sansui 350A AM-FM stereo tuner amplifier. Call George 3546. 
... 
~ -~­

-----------------------~ 
16 

the observer ___F_ri~.I~~e!t~_"!lter 21, 1973 
Irish 1973: It all begins tomorrow 

'.
" ( 
, ) 
' I i 

; 
Miami of Florida in late November
by \'ic Dorr 
of 1972, and it gave Notre Dame an
Sports Editor 
!H record and secured an Orange Bowl invitation for the young.
During his nine-year career at largely rebuilt squad.
:'\C1tre Dame, head football coach .\ra Parseghian has never known The season had been successful 
an· thing but success. He has up to that point--it had been IH'\·er come close to having a losing 
marred only by a 30-26 loss to '"ason: in fact. he has never come 
Missouri--but after the Irish ac­dose to having a .500 season. He cepted the bowl invitation, their 
has won the ::\'ationl Championship fortunes declined rapidly. A 45-23 once. and finishl'd as a runner~up whipping by Southern Cal. was t\\ ice. And his teams have been followed by a 40·6 Nebraska rated in post-season top tens on runaway, and Ara's successful 
tour other occasions. rebuilding year. suddeniy, had 
But despite 'he successes of crumbled into nothingness.receP.t) ears th~ nas' eight months 
Tomorrow ?t 1:30 p.m., eighthavl' been long C1nes for the Irish months aftet the disaster on Newcoach. For it~ been nearly.eight 
Year's night, Ara Parseghian will,.,,,nths since :'\otre Dame last begin his lOth season at the helm of pla~·ed a football game, and it's Notre Dame's football program.
been even longer than that--nearly He'll begin it against Johnny10 :nor ths--since Parseghian 's Pont's surprising NorthwesternIrish lost won a football game. 
Wildcats. and he'll hegin it with a\'hat last victory came against team whkh is no longer rebuilding. 
Vic Dorr=:=:::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::::::::::::::::::=::::::::::::·::::::===========:::::=:::::::::=··:=:::::::=:=:=:::=:=:=:::·:'='=·: 
The Irish Eye 

Thespians might refer to it as "slice of life" technique: closing in on an isolated episode and expanding and developing that episode until it assumes much more than its original imt>ortance. 
There may not be many die-hard thespians in the nations's college football arenas tomorrow afternoon, but there will be plenty of die-hard grid fans. And to them, the "Slice of life" will extend only as far as the playing field in front of them. To those fans, the game with the greatest significance will be the game they're watching. 
In South Bend, of course, the faithful will. be pointing to Notre Dame­Northwestern as the biggest game. In Atlanta, they'll be saying Southern Cal-Georgia Tech, and in Lincoln, Neb., thousands of red-clad fanatics will be giving voice vote to the Cornhusker-N .C. State tilt. 
But "slice of life" or no, there will be more than one important college football game on tap tomorrow afternoon. There will be several. In fact, there will be many· many more than The Irish Eye has space to preview. But here are the contests which should rate near the top of everyone's lists. 
Oregon at Air Force: Sporting an aerial offense which suits their 
nickname perfectly, the Academy's Falcons should have little trouble 
with Oregon. Feathers might fly before this one is over, but they'll all be 
Duck feathers. Corgan: Air Force: Fineran: Air Force. 
Washington State at Arizona State: It's beginning to be almost a 
weekly occurence, and September 22 will be no exception: the Sun Devils 
will plant the "Kush of death" on another unway visitor. Corgan: 
Arizona State: Fineran: Arizona State. 
Tennessee at Army: An admirable attempt to beef up Michie 
Stadium's season-ticket ledgers, hut someone at the Military Academy 
should have remembered: discretion is the better part of valor. Corgan: 
Tennessee: Fineran: Tennessee. 
Baylor at Pittsburgh: No ties for the Panthers this weekend. Pitt will 
garner a "major" first in its resurgent football program: its initial 
victory of the season. Corgan: Pitt: Fineran: Pitt. 
Clemson at Georgia: No ties for the Bulldogs, either. Pitt engineered a 
surprising 7-7 deadlock last Saturday at Athens, but Clemson won't be so 
fortunate· not by a long shot. Corgan: Georgia; Fineran: Georgia. 
Southern Cal at Georgia Tech: "Fight on" is the opening line, ap­
propriately, in USC's fight song. John McKay's Trojans may have a fight 
on their hands tomorrow afternoon, but eventually the Yellow Ja-:kets 
will succumb. Just like Arkansas did last week. Corgan: USC; Fineran: 
l'SC. 

Texas at Miami: The Longhorns, long accustomed to the friendly 
<though phony) turf of Dallas' Cotton Bowl and their own stadium at 
Austin, should find some novelty in their visit to the Orange Bowl. They 
should also find a not-too-<lifficult victory over the Hurricanes. Corgan: 
Texa~; Fineran: Texas. 
:\liami <Ohio) at Purdue: The Mid-American conference sprung a big 
upset last ·week, when Bowling Green blasted Syracuse. Don't look for 
the same thing to happen tomorrow in Ross-Ade Stadium. Corgan: 
Purdue; Fineran: Purdue. 
Stanford at Michigan: This re-match of Rose Bowl '72 will give Bo's 
legions something to think about this weekend -other than that still­
distant meeting with Ohio State. And just thinking about it should give 
the Wolverines enough of an edge to win. Corgan: Michigan; Fineran: 
:vlichigan. 

:\lichigan State at Syracuse: The Spartans and the Orang em en are two 
teams who are coming off surprising opening-week losses. But come 
Saturday evening, State will be 1-1, and Syracuse will have nothing ·other 
than a two-game losing streak. Corgan: MSU; Fineran: MSU. 
Penn State at Navy: Last year's meeting between these two clubs was 
close. and this year's might be be just as close. But even if the contest is a 
close one. the outcome will be the same: Penn State over Navy. Corgan: 
Penn State: Fineran: Penn State. 
North Carolina State at Nebraska: The Wolfpack shone in their post­
season bowl appearance last year, and so, it goes without saying, did the 
Huskers. But tomorrow. at Lincoln, there'll only be room for one team to 
shine -Nebraska. Corgan: Nebraska; Fineran: Nebraska. 
Colorado at Wisconsin: The Buffs were treated rudely during last 
weekend's venture into Bayou Country, but they should find the Badgers 
much easier to handle than the Bengals. Besides, Wisconsin's football 
crowds aren't nearly as hostile as the hockey mobs in Dane County 
Coliseum. Corgan: Colorado: Fineran: Colorado. 
Northwestern at Notre Dame: Oh, yes, there's one other game of in­
terest this weekend. The betting cards are making the Irish three­
touchdown favorites, and maybe that's the way the spread will turn out. 
Regardless of the spread, though, the Irish will come out on top. It's been 
a long wait since January 1. Corgan: ND; Fineran: ND. 
Upset of the week: Maryland at North Carolina: The Tarheels are 
rated nationally, respected regionally, and idolized locally ... by everyone 
except the Terrapins. Jerry Claiborne's offense should secure the upset it 
narrowlymissedlastyear. Corgan: UNC; Fineran: UNC. 
Last week: 12·15, .800 pet. Corgan: 12-15; Fineran: 14-15. 
"The great thing about athletics," said Parseghian, "is that new challenges always lie ahead. We're a year older now, a year more mature, a year more experienced. Our biggest problem this fall has been the injury bugaboo, and that sort of thing has handicapped us most of our pre­season drills. 
"Still. I've been relatively pleased with the overall development of our defense. It's a young defense, but we're hoping th­ey'll jell before the season has gone too far. Offensively, we've been a little inconsistent this fall, and I think injuries go a long way towards explaining that. But we're hoping we'll jell there too, par­ticularly during preparation week for Northwestern." 
Practice sessions during the past week have settled the few remaining questions surrounding the Irish offense. Quarterback Tom Clements, who left campus Sunday because of an auto ac­cident involving his younger sister, has been back since mid-week, and will lead the ND attack in tomorrow's opener. In front of 
Clements, the one open position on the offensive line has also been filled. Senior Tom Bolger <6-2, 239) has moved into the guard slot vacated by offensive captain Frank Pomarico, and will remain there at least until the Rice encounter three weeks hence 
Defensively, the Irish are set at all eleven positions. But they'll be facing a seasoned Northwestern offense which scored 14 pressure points in last week's 14-10 win over Michigan State. 
"Northwestern impressed us last week," admitted Parseghian. ''The win over Michigan State will bolster their tenacity and give them confidence, and we expect them to give us a real hard tussle." 
The Irish coach cites two standout reasons for expecting such a "tussle" from the resurgent Wilcats. One of them is senior linebacker 1\like Varty (6-2, 215) who was credited with nine solo tackles and 10 assists in the upset over Michigan State. The other is senior tight end Steve Craig, who caught four passes Saturday, one for the game-winning touchdown, and one to set up Northwestern's first tally of the afternoon. 
But Varty and Craig aren't the Wildcat's only strong point~. Quarterback Mitch Anderson ()ast year's Big Ten passing leader) tailback Stan Key <107 yards and one touchdown in 31 carries against MSU>, and fullback Greg Roykin give the 'Cat's ample punch on offense, and senior safety Greg Swanson (5-10, 175) joins with Varty to anchor a young, potential· laden defense. 


"Our scouts brought back glowing reports from Nor­thwestern." repeated Ara. "They wer" very much impressed by what they saw, and they'll be play:ng with a big advantage, because they've got one game of experience under their belts." 
Johnny Pont, Northwestern's first-year coach <by way of I.U. Bloomington saw the one-game experience another way. 
"We're playing with a distinct disadvantage," he said. "We're going into our game with Notre Dame blind--other than what we saw in spring practice--while they have had the opportunity to watch us." 
The Irish saw enough of the Wildcats last weekend to have < healthy respect for the potential o! Johnny Pont's squad. But Pont even though he hasn't had thE opportunity to see Notre Dame ir action, has the same kind ol respect for Ara Parseghian's tentt Notre Dame football team 

"Our defense will receivE another acid test this week," of· fered Pont. "This Notre Dame team, with Clements, Penick, and Best, has more speed than"u,ly· Irish team in years." 
The current Irish squad doe~ have an abundance of speed. But if also has size, youth, and 14 starter~ returning from last season's s-: campaign. It has those things ir quantity enough to insure that 197: won't be another rebuilding year 
Perhaps 'rebounding" would bt a better word. 
OBSERVER 
SPORTS 
Open: halfway 
Notre Dame's 72-hole "open" golf tournament is in the middle of its four-<lay two-weekend run. 
The tourney began on the 15th and 16tn, last Saturday and Sunday, and drew the largest field in its history--116 competing golfers. The event will continue this weekend, with the third round slated for tomorrow, and the final round set for Sunday, on the N.D. golf 
course. 
The tournament leader at the end of the first round was senior Sam Galloway (73). But the opening day's leader faded during Sun­day's round, and two other golfers assumed co-leadership 
Junior Jeff Burda (a co-captain of this year's golf team) and junior Tom Morand each posted second round totals of 149 to earn a share of the lead. 
Pep rally tonight 
Notre Dame's 1973 gridiron campaign will kick-off officially tonight, with the first pep rally of the new season. 
The rally, which will be held at Stepan Center, and which will get underway at 7 p.m., will feature four speakers: team tri-captains Dave Casper, Mike Townsend, and Frank Pomarico, and Notre Dame head coach Ara Parseghian. 






