On The Inside 
ND & the student lobby 
...p. 6 
SMC faculty pay raises 
...p. 7 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Tuesday, February 27, 1973

Vol. VII No. 89 
HPC, Rectors to meet tonight 

Hall evictions topic of discussion 
The HPC and the hall rectors will hold a joint meeting tonight to discuss the decision to force students off-campus. Fr. .James Riehle, dean of students and Dr. Phillip Faccenda, acting vice president of student a££airs are both expected to at­lend. 
The joint-session was prompted by the recent controversy over forcing student off-campus next year. Faccenda and Hiehle announced hall by hall bed quotas last Friday. The quotas are intended to relieve the present dormitory over­nowding. 
administrators attend 
In a meeting between the HPC and hall n•ctors Sunday night. the problem was co­sidered in depth. The administrative faction was unrepresented at this meeting according to Fred Baranowski, chairman of the HPC. 


getting it straight 
Tonight with both Riehle and Faccenda present. Baranowski hopes to "get things straight." 

Baranowski said last night, "The reason for getting all three factions together is to clear the air on what exactly is going on here." 
The HPC chairman also said that most 

of the hall  presidents and  rectors  have  
CJUestions  for  Riehle  and  Faccenda  to  
answer.  


review sought 
Baranowski's questions were based on the statement released by the HPC Sunday night <published in Monday's Observer) . He said that he hopes the decision making process used in making the off-campus move will be reviewed and brought to the foreground. 


strike unlikely 
..Acommittee consisting of the HPC, the hall rectors. the SLC. Fr. Riehle, and Mr. Faccenda met last month. Faccenda took the ideas of that committee as input to make the decision," Baranowski said. 
Along with the "decision making process,'' Baranowski hopes to see the points on alternate housing made in Sunday's statement reitterated. 

Baranowski doubted that any decision would be reached at the meeting. He said that the three factions would probably take the opportunity to get everything sorted out. 


. Although a few forms on campus hav~ suggested a student strike, Baranowski felt the idea had not caught on and was unlikely to develop. 


Ca.ndidates make final appeals for support 
by Marlene Zloza Senior Reporter 
Door-to-door canvassing and section discussions highlighted the last night of campaigning for Student Body Presidential and Vice-Presidential candidates. 
Eight of the twelve candidates contacted last night actively worked Monday, soliciting votes for today's general election. 
The election committee met Monday night to discuss campaign violations <see story page 3) and set procedures for the vote. 
Off-campus students can vote all day until 7:00p.m. in the off-campus office. 
Ballot boxes will be in every residence hall from II :no a.m. to I :00 p.m. and from 5:00p.m. to 7:00p.m. In between those hours the boxes are to be returned to 

At 7:00 p.m. the ballots will be counted and tallied in l'ither the Tom Dooley room or Student Government office. according to Paul Dziedzic, election committee chairman. The set-up will be similar to last year's. 
Other procedures call for the ballot box to be situated in a conspicuous, easily accessible place in each dorm and forbid campaign posters within a 25-foot radius of the box. Candidate observers may watch the voting, hut cannot approach voters. 
--Mastro-Fenton campaigned room by room in Sorin, on North Quad and in Grace Monday evening. --The Galloway-Ba tow ticket released a statt>mement endorsing the candidacy of Hess-Davis 
and supporting their ideas. 
1\londay evening. · 
--Moskowitz-Clemency canvassed door-to-door in 
Howard. Morrissey, Badin, Walsh, Lyons and Keenan 
Halls. 
--Alice Wojcieszek gave speeches in Grace and Sorin 
while her runningmate Blake Wordal visited with 
students in Keenan and other halls. She also appeared 
at a discussion in Flanner pit Monday night which 
included rival SBP candidates Glen Sorge and Mike 
ill'SS. 
--Thr Gonzalez-Burke team was unavailable for 
comment late Monday evening. 
--Brennan-Tyrrell released additional platform 
planks but did no active campaigning Monday. 
--Sorge-Manigault reached every hall on campus by 
door-to-door and section meeting campaigning. Sorge 
\\"as also included in the Flanner discussion. 
.,..,. c;;.lark-Singleton ticket_ campaigned .do~ door and gave speeches Monday night in Farley, T1wapaugh. Lyons. Howard, Holy Cross, Grace and "\\"11lsh Halls. --WPsolowski-Angeluzzi were "actively engaged" in sports and studying and did no election campaigning. 
--Don Nollet campaigned on South Quad while SBVP 
partner Mike Goetz talked to small groups and can­
\"assed door-to-door in Farley and the Towers. 
--Mike Hess visited Farley, Breen-Phillips and Keenan and also joined Sorge and Wojcieszek at Flanner for the discussion late Monday night. Run­ning-mate Mike Davis also campaigned door-to-door 
--Kubik-Mason campaigned together in Flanner, Grace. Sorin, Walsh and Alumni, reaching students in small group discussions and door-to-door. 
--Carlsen-Kastelic did no active campaigning Monday. 
Most candidates felt reaching students individually \\"as most effective and some found a degree of apathy toward the election. 
The order in which the above candidates are placed was determined by lottery. 
Student meeting 
announced lor tonight 
A general student meeting is planned for 9:00 
tonight in Stepan Center, announced Dennis ( H­
Man) Etienne, Student Body Vice-President. 
"The purpose of the meeting is to bring dif­
ferent factions together on the issue of forced off­
campus living," H-Man said . 
Etienne invites all interested students, faculty 
members and administrators to attend what he 
calls "the Estates General." He hopes to discuss 
the implications of the administration's latest 
policy decision. 
"I can't promise many answers but if anything 
is to be accomplished, a concerted effort is 
necessary," Etienne said. 
the observer Tuesdav, February 27, 11973 
warld 
briefs 
(c) The New York Times1 
Saigon--Arrangements for the second round of prisoner releases w£'re stalled late last night, and it was not clear when the next group of Anwricans would be freed by the North VietnamE;se and the Vietcong. American officials had expected the Communists to turn over a list of prisoners yesterday. whom they would release today, but no list was forthcoming. 
Washington--The Administration's two foremost inflation fighters insisted that President Nixon was keeping 5.5 per cent as a standard for annual wage increases. However, treasury secretary George P. Shultz and John T. Dunlop, the new director of the cost of living council. failed to dispel the impression that the Ad­ministration was moving away from a specific standard to a more fl£'xible approach to wage regulation. 
NPw York--With a green light from Washington, the nation's major hanks increased their prime lending rates to 61!4 per cent from 6 per c£'nl. but bankers said that even with the quarter-point increase the key minimum charge on business loans was still well below its "natural" market level, where it would be in the absence of govern­nwnt pressures. 
Washington--President Nixon's re-e.Iection committee obtained subpoenas ordering a dozen reporters and new executives to turn over all their notes, tapes and other private material involving news stories about the bugging of the Democratic National Committee IH'adquarters in Washington last June. The court orders were mainly directed at the Washington Post, whose publisher, Kathrin Graham, andmanagingeditor. Howard Simons, have received subpoenas. 

Administrators and senior class discuss SMC campus problems 
by Maria Gallagher St. Mary's Editor 
Administrative bureaucracy, improvement of hall life, parietals, comprehensive examinations, academic calendars, and academic pressure were among the subjects touched on at a meeting last night between top Saint Mary's administrators and members of the senior class. 
Although the meeting was 
I 
r publicized by circulars distributed to all senior, only seven members of the class met with Saint Mary's President Edward Henry, Academic Affairs Vice President William Hickey, Dean of Students r 
Kathleen Mulaney, and Vice President for Student Affairs Mary Alice Cannon. 
Senior Class President Debbie ('arvatta attributed this to the fact that most second semester seniors feel lethargic about college policies since it will soon have no pffect on them, and the fact that it was scheduled the night before "S<'nior Day." 
!\lost of the discussion centered around improvement of living t•onditions on campus and suggestions for creating an at­mosphere on campus that would l'ncourage students to remain ratlwr than move off campus. 
l'arvatta. former hall president of Holy Cross and now a McCan­clless resident. listed parietals and breaking down each dorm into smaller communities within the dorm as two possibilities. 
"Sometimes the student feels like she is just a boarder," con­t<'nded Carvatta. "It's a question of delegating self-responsibility." 
Carvatta pointed out the ex­tremes between the relatively protective atmosphere on campus and the freedom of the off-campus 
t student. and speculated that students might be more inclined to slay on campus if they are allowed more freedom. 
"You can't go from one extreme 
to the other on May 20," she said. 
Specifically, Carvatta cited 
student-regulated parietals as one 
means of "relaxing an unnatural 
situation." The students seemed to 
agree that they should first be tried 
on an experimental basis on 
weekends before extending them. 
They also believed that a sign-out 
policy such as the one existing 
from I :00 p.m. to 5:00p.m. on 
Sundays should be retained. 
The question of privacy under a 
parietals system was explored, 
with the students concurring that 
roommates have to work out many 
problems involved in living 
together. not just privacy, and that 
it causes no more difficulty than 
these other problems. 
"You're roommates for a reason--because you're friends and can live together," one senior said. 
Security under a parietals system was discussed with Car­vatta citing the successful system of student-regulated 12-hour parietals at Barat College. 
"Such a system here would strengthen community within the hall by making the students feel responsible for one another," believed Kathy Murphy. 
College policy on alcoholic beverages came up as another proposal for improving campus life. with the stipulation that only seniors be permitted to have them. Henry felt that the proposal was \'alid. but "administratively very difficult to carry out." 
Campus recreational facilities were reviewed, and most students felt that facilities within the halls would have to be improved. Deficiencies were cited by students in the lack of physical recreation facilities, and inadequate furnishings in the Regina Student Center. Regina was called "a waste of money and effort'' by one student, who felt that "the novelty wore off in about 
SMC Junior Clas• 
There will be a meeting with Dr. Henry 
When: Wednesday, February 28, 1973 Time: 7 pm Where: Stapleton Lounge Topic: Abolishing Senior Comp, and other problems.•• 
More Info: Contact Von Stallworth 5700 
two weeks." Another countered this by saying that it was not a total failure, but the vast amount of space remaining could still be utilized for "things the students really want." Among these were listed saunas, a pool and opening the mythical Regina bowling alley. 
Hickey introduced the possibility of creating a number of "living rooms" to be distributed throughout each dorm and tailored lo the needs of students living in the adjacent section. 
Academic pre::;sure as a limitation on student freedom to <'xplore possibilities outside the classroom was debated. Henry observed that his experience showea him that "thelevel of academic expectation was higher at Saint Mary's than at other colleges, and students here feel more bound to classroom assignments than elsewhere. 
"Academics are so overem­phasized that other aspects of college life are deficient," Mary Fran McAuliffe noted. 
The ObserveT is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. M«ry's College. Subscriptions m«y be purchased for $8 per 
•semester ($14 per year) from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second crass postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
;~46556. 
an campu• tadlly 
~: 15 p.m. ·lecture,a geochemical study of alpine ultramafic r'Ocks and their relation to the mantle, dr. alan m. stueb~r. room 101 geology building 
6:30 p.m. lecture, student c'>alition for human life amf'ndment, Cavanaugh hall lounge 7:00p.m. reading and discussion, female eunuch, main floor Ia fortune, women's caucus 
7:30p.m. discussion, dean robert waddick meets with all juniors interested in going to law school, engineering auditorium 
8:00 p.m ... modern dance, saeko ichinohe & co., dance and elrama series, o'laughlin auditorium, admission 
$3.00, patrons free  
7:30  p.m ..theatre,  an  evening  with  ben  hecht.  
washington  hall.  no  admission,  sponsored  by  the  
american studies program  

7:30p.m ...lecture, past present future, george shurter, morrissey hall lobby 7:30p.m. --lecture, looking at prints as an art form, don vogl, isis gallery 
I0:00p.m. wsnd am-fm, tear and tell, special guest: fr. s11ilts 
livE ANd STUdy iN ROME 
LOYOLA UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO 
ROME CENTER OF LIBERAL ARTS 
• Classes taught in English 
• All academic credits transfer 
• 60 courses offered each semester: 
ANTHROPOLOGY • CLASSICAL .STUDIES • ENGLISH 
& ITALIAN LIT. • FINE ARTS • HISTORY • ITALIAN 
• PHILOSOPHY • POLITICAL SCIENCE • PSYCHOL­
OGY • THEATRE • THEOLOGY 
• 
400 schools represented over 10 years 

• 
Campus villa houses some 275 students 


MANY STATE SCHOLARSHIPS TRANSFER APPLICATIONS ACCEPTED NOW FOR 1973-74 
FOR INFORMATION MAIL TO: LOYOLA UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO ROME CENTER OFFICE, 6525 N. SHERIDAN RD., CHICAGO, ILL 60626 
Name School 
Address City State Zip 
JUNIORS! 
Now is the time to be thinking about law school. Dean Waddick will an­swer your questions tonight at 7:30pm in the Engineering Auditorium. 
Sponsored by the Pre-Law Scciety. 
Tuesday, February 27, 1973 the observer 
Election Committee notes minor violations 
Terry Keeney Staff Reporter 
The Student Government Election Committee decided last night to censure two tickets of SBP-SBVP candidates for minor violations of campaign regulations. After a brief, closed­door meeting, the committee announced the censures, but declined to reveal the names of the guilty candidates. 
Paul Dziedzic, chairman of the Election Committee, explained, "The violatons deatt with use of campus press money. They were not serious enough to constitute a public sanction." 
The Election Committee accused the censured tickets of misusing student government funds allocated to them for the cam­paign. Dziedzic indicated that the censure would involve rescinding these funds. In one case all student government funds are to be returned. while the other involves only a partial return. 
Before reaching its decisions the Election Committee heard numerous complaints of alleged violations of the campaign regulations. Yet it remains unknown which of those violations drew the sanction of the Com­mittee. 
A majority of the formal charges were lodged against candidates Mike Hess and Mike Davis. Andy Winiarczyk, a representative of the Alice Wojcieszek-Blake Wordal ticket, requested that Hess produce receipts showing that his expenditures had remained within the limits prescribed by the Election Committee. He claimed that Hess's expenses for printer matter (including posters and platform las well as beer parties iri Dillon Hall and at Kubiak's had to exceed the $150 restriction. 
Winiarczyk further charged that Hess supporters were passing out free beer in front of the South Dining Hall on Saturday night. 
Bob Alden, campaign manager of the Hess-Davis campaign, denied the charges. In presenting a breakdown of campaign expenses, he stated that total expenses amounted to $129.60. He further offered to produce receipts, if requested by the committee. 
Alden denied that Mike Hess or 
Mike Davis had any knowledge of 
distributing beer in front of the 
dining hall. "If someone was 
passing out beer in front of the South Dining Hall, I know nothing asb6ut it." 
Hess and Davis were also charged with starting their campaign before the designated time-6 p.m. Thursday. The Jim Clarke-Chris Singleton ticket claimed that Hess-Davis posters were being put up 45 minutes before starting time. 
Alden admitted this .minor violation. "People were told not to· put anything up before 6. But someone did." 
The ticket of Dan Wesolowski and Jay Angeluzzi was cited for violations. The two candidates allegedly placed an advertisement in last Wednesday's Observer 
endorsing their candidacy. Jay Angeluzzi apologized for the ad. "We handed it in to the Observer, and they said it was all right. We just did not know it was a violation." 
The Election Committee also heard the charge that certain candidates had introduced the themes of their campaigns days or weeks before the starting date. C­ommittee member T. C. Treanor noted the presence of posters around campus announcing the coming of "Pussycat, Nixon's Secret Agent." These posters 
that the committee felt that these
Edl•tor of I e ation iscusses alleged pre-campaign activities
Th N I d 
minority and press relations ~~~~.s ~~~~~~~:~:{"::~';;' s '1 
C. C. McWilliams, a long time writer Staff Reporter and journalist can recall. On the other hand, minm ities have many
Mr. Carey McWilliams, editor of gr~ve. legitimate grievancesThe Nation and author of num­berous books on ethnic minorities, against the press which should be described in-depth last night the exposed. How, then, should dilemma facing relations between minorities make their criticism this country's ethnic minorities without fading into the current and its press. His lecture, entitled mire of the government's official "News Management as Related to attack? Minorities." noted that the press is 
McWilliams urged allunder its "most massive attack 
Americans. particularly minority groups who need the media as a
··,"':<:<<: ?Iff' "bridge" between themselves and the general public, to forcefully >,.,,., ''':>>'"'''''>> resist the Nixon Administration's :.all fronts attack" against the 
.,,.,.,,_,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,press. At the same time, he called 
Carey McWilliams: Media is a '"bridge between minority groups crncf the general public. 
for extensive minority group pressure on the media to correct its often destructive "mischievous" distortion of minority issues. According to McWilliams, such pressure could be exerted through media review boards. media ombudsman panels, and by strong. collective support of alternative press publications. 
The editor of The Nation em­phasized the media's attitudinal shift in its handling of civil rights issues. He pointed out the wide coverage of race problems in the South in the fifties, as well as the lesser coverage of the same issues when they surfaced in the North in the sixties. Unfortunately, said McWilliams. with the demise of the 
Saeko lchinohe and Feb. 27 a p.m. Company O'Laughlin Aud. 
CAC Nat'l Bank, Pandora's, Jennifer's 
I ' 
I. $3, C~C Dan.ce & Drama patrons Free I 


Paul Dziedzic and T. C. Treanor, two members of the election committee, hear campaign violations charges. 
alle&e~ly provided pre-campaign publicity for the Hess-Davis ticket which is running with the slogan "Pussycat." 
The ticket of Kubik-Mason was cited for a similar discrepancy. The slogan of their campaign "The Age of TlPcadance" allegedly appeared as an ad in the Observer several '<iays before the campaign began. 
Election Chairman Paul Dziedzic stated after the meeting were trivial, and "in good faith." 
A further complaint was raised not against an individual ticket 'mt ~gainst the study body. SBP candidate Dan Wesolowski decried the wid~spread destruction of campaign posters. He attributed this action to the immaturity of the student body. 
Chairman Dziedzic was questioned concerning how the order of articles in the Observer Election Special was determined. The placement was determ· db 
witnessed random lottery. me y 

PLC Jim Harold. USMC 
You might be asking yourself what is a Black Man doing in the Marines. After all, you know how much racial discrimination existed in the old Marine Corps. But that could be yester· day. And Jim Harold can be"now." 
Today, the official Marine view, from top to bottom, is to eliminate raci.al hang·ups. The measure of a Marine is merit-period! Today, the Corps has affirmative action programs in race relations, equal opportunity and treatment.Today the Marine Corps is becoming involved in the black community. Jim is a part of this, and you may be, too. This is C...::~C~ why the Marillf!' Corps hon· estly feels it has a place for you. The Corps is seeking Blacks who have the potential to become officers through the Platoon Leaders a ass (PLC1. or one of the other Marine Officer programs. Make no mis­take about it,Brother; if enlisted Black men are going to be in the Marine Corps, then there must be many "Jims" to insure the elimination of racial hang·ups. 
Don't kid yourself, though. You won't get any special privileges. No one does! The Marines still~ their stan­dards high. But, if you have the brains uxl ability to put it 
togetherasa Marine Officer-aleader of '"her Marines-you will have done it on your own. 
The easiest way for a college man to ~ come a Marine Officer is through the Platoon Leaders Class...conducted Ollly during the 
summer months. 
Platoon Leaders Class offers you both KfOIIIId and aviation options. ln fact, 1out of 3 -MarineOfficers is an aviator. There is even a Law option. Upon graduation from college, at which time you11 get your Lieutenant's commission,you may receive a delay of active 
duty so you can remain in school to get your law degree. 
Find out all about the opportunities uxl benefitsthatgoalongwith being aMarineOfficer­about thePlatoon Leaders OwuxlotherMarineCorps 
Officer programs for college students. Why~ ched us out ux1-if we·~ not telling it like it is? 
The Marines are looking for a lew good men. 
Dining Halls Noon and Evening Meals Today through Friday 
Dut an the Weekend
THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
John Abowd Dan Thornton Editor-in-Chief Business Manager 

Robbed
NEWS: 283"1715 EDITORIALS: 283-8661 Don Ruane BUSINESS: 283-7471 Joe Butler Executive Editor Advertising Manager 
Tuesday, February 27, 1973 
bab hifirJin• 

campus 
Before all hell breaks loose in Stepan Center tonight some basic facts should be laid on the table. More importantly, some persistent myths should be laid to rest permanently.Myth 1: The enrollment of undergraduate females increased the number of people admitted to the university. This caused the present housing shortage. Fact 1: The number of freshmen enrolled this year was 1625-­('Xactly the planned enrollment and t'xactly the same target that was used in 1971-72 when no females were admitted. The planned freshmen enrollment for 1973-74 is also 1625--males and females included. 
This is probably the most persistent of the current myths and it is certainly the }('ast accurate. Constant references to "alumni pressure" to keep male ('nrollment constant imply that this pressure has in some way altered the basic admission quotas which were reported last semester. This is not so. Total undergraduate enrollment in the 1973-74 school year should decrease because of the loss of the present senior class, a class which overshot predicted ('nrollment by 100 students. 
Myth 2: The conversion of Badin, Breen-Phillips, Farley and Walsh to female dorms has created a permanent shortage of on-campus housing for males. 
Fact 2: This is impossible if total enrollment stays the same. 
The grain of truth in Myth 2 is that female students are not being asked to bear any of the burden of the housing shortage. The reasons for this decision arc not the subject of this editorial. However, during the next few years the conversion of male dorms to female dorms will aggravate the housing shortage. This does not mean, though, that the conversions themselves are the cause. Myth 3: "We should have been told earlier so we could have planned for th(' possibility that we might have to live off-campus." Fact 3: Dr. Philip Fac­cenda's first act as Vice President of Student Affairs was to announce that the housing shortage experienced this year would be a "one year occurence." · 
Throughout the first semester nearly constant reference was made to the necessity of forcing students off campus in order to ease the oed shortage. ~x­!llieit references were also made to the pr~1m ise to return previously public 
rooms  to their common status.  
Everyone  supported  the  idea  of  
Pliminating  the  overcrowding  in  the  

dormitories but only when there was no <'Ost attached. Now that it is obvious (as it has been all year long) that the price of Pnding overcrowding is forcing students off campus. there is considerable reluctance to end the overcrowding. Myth 4: Over 1000 students will be forced off campus. Fact 4: There are 5100 beds on campus. There will be 6600 un­dergraduate students next year. 1427 students chose to live off campus thisyear. Any assumption to the effect that some 900 fewer students would want to live off campus next year is wholly unjustified. 
Even as assumption that only 1200 to 
the observer 
Night Editor: Kathy Schwille 
Ass'!. Night Editor: Robert Baker 
Layout: Rod Braye, Steve Barrett 
Sports Night Editor: Vic Dorr 
Poctures: Jerome 
• Copy Editor: Mike O'Hare 
Typists: Barb Norcross. Steve Roper, Tom Modglin Night Controller: John Flannigan 
Possibly something as drastic as suicide is more out-of-character for me writing a strictly serious column. 
Perhaps. 
But seriousness is the only choice. There is absolutely nothing funny about this subject and consequently a satirization is impossible. 
We. as students)£ Notre Dame supposedly served by our campus newspapc>r. have been robbed of a service we can only nautrally ex­pect to receive. The Observer though it has a journalistic duty to do ~o. has l"a iled to endorse a candidate for Student Body President. 
Not in the last three SBP elections, and probably not before that either. hns this newspaper taken such an apathetic stand. Never before has it sat through four hours of intensive interviewing with candidates.a and come to the conclusion that no one should be the next Student Body President. Never before has it editorialized that the Student Body Presidential Elections were not something important. 
The undeniable truth is that this election is important. This is one of the most important issues of the year. One person, among the huge field running. will be the representative of the Notre Dame Student Body for the next twelve months. He will decide how to apportion 
$!1!i.OOO in budget money. he will determine whether or not to in­~·orporate. he will determine whether to continue the office of SBP or not. and should a crisis arise he will be turned to for leadership. 
Another undeniable truth is that one of these people is going to win. Not only that. but no matter how bad they all may seem to some nwmbers of the Editorial Board, one of them is most qualified to win. In a race of turtles. none is fast. but one is faster than the rest. 
Now its also undeniable that the ten members of the Editorial Board are among the very select few that have heard almost every candidate speak. The many Observer readers will find it impossible to be as informed about this campaign as the editorial board is. Yet, the I<:ditorial Board could not lower itself to choose one of these so-called inferior candidates. 
It is my impression of journalism that a newspaper serves a number of functions. The first is clear, concise, objective news­reporting. The second is editorializing. Now the justification for writing an editorial is simple. A publication that is as closely con­nc>ctt'd with news events as this one is, may justifiably assume that it has lwtter knowledge of the issues than most of its readers. An editorial. based on this knowledge, is written to persuade readers to accl•pt the newspaper's position. because, theoretically at least, if the readers were as well acquainted with the issue, they too would adopt the given viewpoint. 
Headf'rs have a right to expect intelligent editori~s from newspapers. Many readers turn with respect to the editorial page, to help them make intelligent decisions on difficult issues. When a newspaper fails to take a stand on an issue as important as an election for a position which annually handles $86,000 in student fees, it has drastically failed its readers who cannot be as well-informed as it is. 
The Ob~er\'er's decision l~ fail to endorse tells me and should tell \OU the The Observer simply can't decide. The people that you have trustt>d all year to give you objective new coverage of important P\"Pnts have returned to you an extremely unresponsible decision of "I don·t know·· on the iss•.te of who should be the next SBP. 
This to 111('. is equal to the actions of an ostrich. Faced with the diflkult dPcision of who to select in a field of no outstanding can­didaIPs. TIJC' 0/Js('rl'er was unable to determine who is best. Must it be clear!~· obvious before a stand be taken? Cannot one candidate edge out tlw otlwrs in his qualifications~ 
!low Till' Ohsen•er can t>xpect any voter to make an intelligent dl'cision today. wlwn they could not. after interviewing every can­dida tP that ehose to appear. is totally beyond me. 
Thl' r,•sppc·t The Observer iooses among the student body may ~oml'day h(• won back. But if this newspaper continues to back down on issus of importance it might just as well eliminate its editorial pagl'. 
You \H'n' robbPd. 

voluntarily seems grossly inaccurate. However, even using the .worse possible assumption (that only 1200 students voluntarily move off campus), 300 will be forced off. That's still only 4 per cent of the undergraduate student body, a far cry from the 15 percent originally cited. Myth 5: A law suit against a residential university can prohibit that university from forcing students off campus. Fact 
5: The university is under no contractual agreement to provide housing for the upcoming year to any student until the 1973-74 housing contracts aresigned. This has not yet occurred. 
Campaign promises by some can­didates have indicated that there are legal grounds for injoining the university from forcing students off campus. These claims are false. No candidate has produced legal references to substantiate these claims and it is doubtful that they could since such references do not exist. 
The truth is that quantum im­provements in the quality of hall life have increased the demand for campus housing. There are many people who are "to blame" for the increased quality of hall life. Many of those people are justifiably proud of the contributions they have made. And they resent very deeply having to dissolve any portion of the communities they helped build. 
But the issue needs to be more clearly dclinea ted. If the principle complaint is over the policy of forcing students off­campus, then, the correct option is to ask of alternative housing sources are available. The best alternatives are Carroll, Brownson and Columba halls. (Anyone who thinks the Sisters of the Holy Cross would permit a male dorm at SMC is plain naive.) Faccenda has said that these alternatives have been examined and rejected. At this point he should reveal the reasons that these options were rejected. If Faccenda does make the reasons public and reasons are ~ood, then, this part of the issue is dead. 
The second possible complaint is over the execution of the policy to move students off campus. Here the university has relegated authority to the individual halls. If the individual halls refuse to t'xecute th policy, if they, in effect, say to ttl(' university "do your own dirty work," tll('n, no one should be surprised if grade point average becomes the standard with which students are moved off campus. If lh(' policy must stand, if would be damn foolish of the individual halls not to select the method of execution themselyes. 
In the last analysis, whether it is the policy of the execution that is at stake, arguments based on misinformation aren't going to convince anyone. 
John Abowd 

weekends in christian living 
Tuesday, February 77, 1973 the observer 
5 
a community to belong to on corey lake 

There is no other way to invite a SMC-ND 
student, faculty, or staff person to a 
Weekend in Christian Living than to simply 
invite them. To be forced to define exactly 
what the weekend will be is really im­
possible and unnecessary. I wish to think of 
it in terms of an invitation to become a 
Prople, a People with other people, who also 
have come with similar and undefined 
expectations. 
Around an academic environment such as 
ours, life becomes very heady, competitive 
rapid, and at times impersonal. In response 
to the stress and distress around South 
Bend's ND-SMC,if therecould be provided a 
zone, a space, really zones, and spaces 
where we all could go and stretch out, think 
out. reach out some of mylife with others, 
freshmen. grad students, at times even 
some graduates, minority students,rngaged 
couples, married couples, faculty children, 
a few townies, people who make up the 
mosaic of my environment , to go away 
together with common needs and build 
something in common, then the quality of 
life on campus would be raised. 
con•y lake 
This has been attempted monthly this 
semester and once last semester, all in a 
lodge on Corey Lake in Jones, Michigan. 
I am led to believe that the most profitable 
way to know another, and even at times to 
get along with another, is to do something 
together, getting down to making a meal, 
doing dishes, baking a cake, or starting a 
fire in the fireplace to heat up the lodge 
together. And in these delights we all have 
plenty of opportunity to perform, surviving 
together to begin the weekend so that all are 
fed. warmed, comforted, and helped to 
make the crucial adjustment from peaceful 
and placid dorm life to the uncivilized 
woods. · 
people building 
People building happens when I. and others. know we are in the company of friends, ~o discover his or her condition is similar to mine, to know another and be known by him or her, to make friends with another friend's friend, to walk together and all make friends with the earth outside, the terrain. the woods, the trees, the lake; to swing on a vine, to play touch football together and get beaten by a last minute touchdown pass thrown and ·caught by two SMC students; to discuss in reflective groups the initial talk, given by a ' studen,, concerning the development of her .faith in herself ~and in God as she wishes to bring all that she is mto 1 a relationship with her fiance-to-be. 
We wanted a married couple to be part of the weekend to remind us of relationship, the ultimate in mutual and permanent love, to speak to us of how and why they pray, in one case the couple's motivation for adopting, as white parents, two black children to be brother and sister to their own natural children. 
We celebrate Mass together in the lodge after admitting ourselves to others and to (;odin the sacrament of Confession, praying in silence . waiting in prayer at times listening to the prayer of another. 
sipping wine 
The richest moment for all of us is to speak. without ceasing, to the people around the fire Iii the morning comes, sipping wine, <'ven dancing together to an Israeli Folk !lora. dancing out all the dance in us, then leaving to be in solitude with my thoughts 
my own reflections, and my own decisions to make. 
As a priest I see our weekends, besides the many dimensions that they are, as one of the finest expressions of the Church. The Church is most the Church for me when it is in life and in love; people becoming the 
People of God who say to the world that friendship can really happen and exist and continue; that trust is possible; that women and men can speak with understanding and feeling to each other; that the people with different faces, places, and spaces, ages and races, can get it on together; that the People can make friends alone and together with their God as they know him in the Eucharist. in their own admission of what is false in their life, in the magnificent and created earth around us, our home, and in the precious and so rare moments of in­timate conversation nodding together as you talk to the other. It seems then that the Christ of God is present. 
march 2-4 
We come by bus on Friday evening and return by the same means Sunday noon, much more tired and weary, yet joyous and extended. For more people than you thought have entered your life and stayed. 
This weekend, March 2-4, we invite you to be with us, as we do again on April27-29. Each Wednesday evening the 10:30 
· Stapleton Lounge Eucharist invites all of us together again to be a people who befriend, having been befriended. 
Fr. Ned Reidy 
3353 
5392 
fr. ned reidy 

a child of the century 
" ... But a year went by, and through all that year there had not been an issue of the Chicago Daily News without a Ben Hecht sketch. There was comment upon everything under the sun ...charac­teristically frank ... provokingly debonaire ... assaults upon all the idols of antiquity, of neo-boobism ... raw chunks of philosophy, delivered with gusto and sometimes with inaccuracy ... Ben will deny most of this. He denies everything. It doesn't matter. It doesn't even matter much, Ben, that your typingJ was son1etimes so blind or your spelhng was atrocious,. or that it took three proof-readers and a Library of Universal Knowledge to check up your historical allusions ... " 
---Henry Justin Smith The Chicago Daily News 
Ben Hecht was a "gutsy" newsman, 
besides being a playwriter, screenwriter, 
and a novelist. He adapted the screenplay 
of "Gone with the Wind" for David Selznick 
in one week. never having read the book. 
Another time he wrote a successful novel in 
two days just so he could collect on a $2000 
bet. 
james sullivan 
Hecht is dead now, but James Sullivan of the New American Theatre is bringing him to Notre Dame tonight. Under the American Studies Department sponsorship, Sullivan will present Hecht in a one man presentation much in the mold of Hal Holbrook's :"Mark Twain Tonight". ·He has over eight hours of original Hecht material memorized and presents whatever parts of it he desires. In the program, the sponsors warn, "NOTE: The promoters of the production have struggled for weeks to pin down Mr. Hecht to a specific outline of this program. Their efforts have been in Yain. In fact. they have been consistently unable to pin down Mr. Hecht himself. They herewith print this program based on rumors of his past clashes on the public platform. They also withdraw their responsibility for the next two hours." 
Hcviewers across the Midwest have concurred that Sullivan does not play or act Hecht. They claim that he is Hecht. He presents himself as a public speaker and unwinds a lengthy string of stories which describe his experiences as a reporter for 
, the Chicago Daily News and his later career. As a reporter, Hecht was not afraid to invent news when it didn't materialize. In fact, on a \front page, seven column story, Hecht described an earthquake which hit Chicago. To add a realistic touch, Hecht and a friend dug a fissure on a beach. But his imaginative news came to a halt when a picture of a "runaway prmcess who 
chose love over the crown" was identified as one of ,Chicago's more popular and suc­cessful prostitutes. 
Hecht-Sullivan leaps around the country as his career follows to New York and westward to Hollywood. 
brings hecht back to life 
Hecht has only been dead now for about a decade. yet he has faded into oblivion. His work--except for revivals of"Front Page" and "Gaily, Gaily" --is unheard of and unread. But James Sullivan is attempting to bring Hecht back to life. And tonight at 
7:30 on the stage at Washington Hall, a part of the resurrection\ of Ben Hecht will occur. James Sullivan---An evening with Ben Hecht. a Child of the Century. 

the observer Tuesday, February 27, 1973
6 
Campus housing shortages not new at ND 
by Kathy Hessert Staff Reporter 
On campus housing shortages and the resulting necessity of off campus living is not a recent phenomenon at Notre Dame, but dates back to the post-World War I days of the University. 
Following the end of World War 
I. the University found itself unable to house the large influx of students. According to Fr. Johr Cavanaugh, secretary to the President of the University in 1917 and later President, "The irony of war is that it shows men their deficiencies and the value of an education." In he early 1920's, on campus housing was limited to Sorin and Corby Halls. The ad­ministration building also included two residence areas in Brownson and Carroll Halls. Later Walsh· Hall became the "Gold Coast" or first of the new dorms. 
With the deluge of veterans after the first World War, Notre Dame found it necessary to seek off campus housing in order to ac­comodate the increased student enrollment. "The discipline was more assertive then; the younger men needed more of it and therefore were required to live on campus," Cavanaugh said. Older students did have the alternative of living off campus however. 
University approved housing and the actions of all off campus students were supervised by the Prefect of Off Campus Students and his "Sin Squad." The other side of the St. Joseph River or what was later referred to as the "Out of Bounds Area" was viewed in a dim moral light. 
In Cavanaugh's opinion, "The other side of the river had dowdy .?ating and drinking places which could lead one into a relationship with people that weren't uplif ling." Oscar Wilde once said, "It doesn't matter what you do in secrecy. It is written in your face what kind of person you are," and the results of the "Sin Squad's" frequent spot checks support this view. 
In the 1920's, the University attempted to unite the student body through the Off Campus Services. This included the scheduling of masses at convenient times and generally making available to the off campus students the extracurricular ex­periences of the University." 
"The problem with girls and off­campus students was instictively human," Cavanaugh noted, "but the Sin Squad even checked under beds." 
Through evolution and survival of the fittest, off campus students became an ordinary segment of university life. Landladies· became mothers and aCCOrding to I the 1953 Student Manual, they were officially designated to report class absences of off campus students to the Office of the Prefect of Discipline before 10:00 a.m. 
In 1946, the University ex­perienced the deluge of World War II veterans seeking to take ad­vantage of the G.I. Bill of Rights. Prefect of Discipline Fr. Charles McCarragher remarked, "In the 1940's and 50's the University subscribed to "in loco parentis." "Only graduate students, day students, and veterans were permitted to live off campus. Few exceptions were made for seniors. On campus rooms were allottted according to grade point average. A complex of government housing was constructed for married studens,. being located in what today is the open field between the Library and the towers. Referred to as "Vetville," Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh was the designated 
Notre Dazne vvill support student lobby 
Upon his return from the Indiana Student Government Conference this weekend Student Body Vice­President Dennis Etienne an­nounced that the Notre Dame student government will actively support the Conference's decision to establish an Indiana student government lobby which will represent the students views before the state legislature. 
Etienne explained that this eoncept of a student lobby evolved from the proposed lobby for the 18 year old drinking statute which the Notre Dame student government actively supported early last semester. The Notre Dame student government found little support for this proposed lobby when it contacted other Indiana eolieges last October. At this past weekend's Conference, the other <•Ieven participating colleges admitted their error in witholding support. 
It is now too late to arrange for a revival of the drinking law lobby this semester since the Indiana 
House has already rejected a liberalization of the existing age limit statutes. Nonetheless, after much discussion the Convention recognized thelpotential power of a student lobby to represent the students' interests in the future on drinking laws, as well as other student concerns. A proposal advocating the establishment of a permanent, professional student lobby at the Indiana legislature was overwhelmingly passed by the Convention. This lobby would be supported by dues from the cooperating Indiana student government organization. 
Etienne stated that the student government associations which attended the Conference at the trniverstty of Evansville will con tact the other student organizations in Indiana to gain their support. An April meeting with representatives from all 45 Indiana student government associations is being planned. The main business of this meeting will be to establish the groundwork for the proposed student lobby. 
Students needed to deliver books to s. Dakota college 
I l 
Mike Rizzo Staff Reporter 
After spending several weeks collecting duplicate text books from NotreDame professors, Professor Frederick Dow\ now faces theobstaclebf delivering the texts to the Sinte Gleska College Center in South Dakota. 
"The drive is really over for this year." stated Dow.\"but what we need now is someone who is goin~ out in that direction over spring break who has room to _bring the books to the school." The books, which are destined to become\ a much-needed addition to the Sinte Gleska library would make about half a car trunk load for any Notre Dame student or faculty member· who is going through South Dakota during the March break. · 
Sinte Gleska College Center IS a two-year junior college which is located in the midst of a Sioux Indian reservation in South Dakota. The tollege· is oriented, towards two-year ·terminal-type programs such _as land · management and nursirfg· 
The majotity ··of the students leave tl)e-school prepared to fill a needed employment position on the reservation. However, the schtol does 1place many of its graduates into regular four-year colleges after graduation. The Sinte Gleska s<:hool provides poverty-level students with a college education .md employment preparation but its effectiveness is crippled by lack ·~L f~nds and teaching mate.rials. 
Dow, ~f the business,colleg~.land other -conc$QJ~slj professors and students have collected_ftore than 100 texts basically covering_ finance and business which could be of use in the business program of Sinte Gieska College. ·· The motivation for the re<'tirrent book drives springs out of Dow's friendship with several of the men at Sinte Gleska, including .Chief Stanely Redbird, chairman of the board of trustees for the school. 
THE RED DOOR CLUB 
presents 
Old Time Movies 
Every Wednesday Night *also recent ND Football Fllx 
*BEER * WINE * LIQUOR* 
MEMBERSHIPS AVAILABLE 


regulations for the benefit of students living off campus and liberalization of drinking laws. This proposed student state lobby is believed to be the first of its kind in the country. 
Notre Dame Judicial Coor­dinator Greg Smith also attended the Conference with'Etienne. He <'Xplained that he did not expect a negative reaction to this proposal 
by the Administration. Smith felt that the proposed student lobby should receive Administrative support since it is a student initiated plan which "will work within the system." He was also confident that the newly elected student government officials would support the lobby. 
Dennis Etienne: Lobby will Student Government Treasurer 
represent interests of all college IMike Marget and Associate 
students in Indiana. Treasurer Mike Geisinger also 
Etienne noted that the lobby attended the Conference at the could be used to represent the llniversity of Evansville. They intersts of all the college students represented Notre Dame before of Indiana. The lobby could work the finance and administratior for improved landlord-tenant relations committees. 
chaplain of "fertile valley." 
Regulations for off campus students were identical to those of students living in resident halls. The 1953 Student Manual stated, "All off campus students musl be in their places of residence by 
12:00 p.m." The "Sin Squad" prevailed under the auspices of the Prefect of Discipline. Tran­sportation by automobile was limited to those students over the age of 21 travelling to or from classes or for dinner between the hours of 5:00 and 8:00 p.m. provided the car was registered with the University. 
In 1973 freshmen and women are the only students required to live on campus. Overcrowding is again the central problem. Enrollment must be accomodated for in some way and off campus living is a solution the University has found. The clue to peace between people and institutions everywhere said l<'r. Cavanaugh, "is not to judge harshly what we do not know. Living off campus could be more economical anyway." 

WhAT'S ThE RELiGiOtJS liFE lil{E? 
Ask tire Men Wllo Know 
Contact: Fr. Andrew CHemi, 0. Praem. 
J Holy Cross Hall, 107 UND tale: 283-6185 
Want a Cheap Thrill? 
Play Misty For Me 
FREE 
March J 
7:30 & JO pm Eng. Aud. 
S. U. Social Commission 

-
Tuesday, February 27, 1973 the observer 
7 
SMC faculty to get pay raises and benefits 
by Maria Gallagher St. Mary's Editor 
A new faculty wage pacage which includes raises for all faculty members and full hospitalization coverage for full­time faculty was approved by Saint Mary's Board of Regents at their early February meeting. 
A release sent to all faculty by Academic Affairs Vice President Dr. William Hickey confirmed the Board's authoritazuvion of the College to pay the full single membership premium for Blue Cross-Blue Shield for all full-time faculty members and outlined the distribution of the wage increases. 
The Board allocated an amount Pqual to 3 per cent of the faculty salary budget, with increases to be determined by guidelines established by the administration. This fund will be apportioned as follows: 
--A 2.2 per cent across-the-board salary increase for all full-time faculty members. This figure is arrived at by taking the agreed 3.4 per cent and subtracting the cost of one-half ~ E Blue Cross premium which is 1.2 per cent. 
--The remaining funds (0.8 of 1 per cent) will be allocated as merit increases, largely to those 
matter. receiving ,promotions for the next Hickey cited a survey taken by a members of the faculty members 
academic year. vice-president of St. Joseph Questions of salary inequities, if College, Renssalaer, Indiana, of all when demonstrated, will be 
Indiana colleges which showed handled as an administrative that the Saint Mary's salry in­creases are "average" in com­
'UUIIIIIIIIIUIUIUUUIUIIIWDJUIIIIIIIIIUIIUIIIII 
parison with others in the state. All colleges reported tuition
Erratum increases, and most increases in faciJltY wages. The wage in­creases across Indiana ranged In the chart on yesterday's from 0 to 5 per cent, and the one fron tpage, the figures for college implementing a 5 per cent "Rooms to be vacated" apply raise had none last year, making 
the figure an actual2--1-2 per cent increase over two years. The average according to the survey fell within the nationwide cost of living increase, which was 3 to 3--1­2 per cent. 
At the same Board meeting, the question of granting tuition remission to sons and male spouses of full-time faculty members was deferred. The Board felt that "this was part of a larger issue, which needed to be studied more carefully at a future date." 
to beds to be vacated, not 
rooms. 
11111111111111111111111111111111111RIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
SMC student governntent fund 
NOTICES 
Will work on Volkswagot~s-. 11
is allocated to individual halls 
Jim Eder Staff Reporter 
The primary allocations of the $14.000 St. Mary's Student Go,·ernment Fund, raised by assessing each student a $10 ac­tivities fee. have been awarded to the halls. according to Student Government Treasurer Nancy Albers. 
Five hundred dollars has been alloted for each hall to use at their own discretion. Albers explained that the only stipulation ac­companying these distributions is that they be "used for the benefit of all the residents." Sponsoring hall parties and banquets with these funds. therefore. are just as valid as making renovations and 

repairs. Nancy Albers: Funds should be Approximately $500 was also 11sed for all hall residents. allocated to start the SMC Day­
refreshments. and bills are stillCare Center. which now provides coming in."
pre-school education and lunch for Albers also explained that a $600the children of both faculty legal fee. resulting from '.he hiringnH'mbers and working mothers of a lawyer by last year's fresh­from the South Bend area. 
man class to "protect themselvesAnother project sponsored by the from unjust treatment" during theSMC Student Government Fund unsuccessful Notre Dame-St.
was the Student Center Opening Mary's merger negotiations, washeld last November. "This was a paid from the Student Government ,·ery costly event." said Albers. 
l''und.
"WP paid for the bands and all the 
ND men to be allowed in 'Brawny Beauty Contest' 
by John Rumbach 
March 9. Judging will begin at 9
Staff Reporter 
am March 10. 
Applications are available at the 
student government offices in 
Brawny and beautiful Notre LaFortune. The contest, sponsored Dame men may enter the by the St. Mary-of-the-Woods "Brawny Beauty Contest" to be Student Activities Committee, is in held at St. Mary-of-the-Woods conjunction with a scholarship College. Terre Haute. In., March 9 drive for the College. and HI. 
"As is the purpose of any beauty 
Upon the request of HPC Executive Coordinator Steve Jeselnick, the SMC Student Government has made a $480 contribution to help sponsor the upcoming An Tostal Weekend. 
Nearly $700 of the SMC fund was used to finance its freshman orientation program last fall. 
The most recent expenditure facing the SMC Student Govern­ment is its annual contribution to the senior class. "The amount is still pending," said Albers, "but it will be somewhere between five and six hundred dollars and used for the traditional graduates' gift to the school." 
OthPr expenses met by the $14.000 fund are the student government salaries and office Pxpendi~ures. Any remaining money w11l be placed in next year's trPasury. 
Weber to lecture on nonfiction 
Dr. Ronald H. Weber, chairman of the Department of American Studies at the University of Notre 
Dame.  will  discuss  the  role  of  
nonfiction  writing  in  recent  
American  literature  at DePauw  

trniversity. Greencastle, Ind., March 6. 
A member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1963 Weber is the author of several literary articles 
and . bi~graphical sketches ap-. pearmg m college and professional journals. He received an un­dergraduate degree at Notre Dame in 1957, a masters degree at the University of Iowa in 1960, and a doctorate at the University of Mitmesota in 1967. 
contest. so it will be the purpose of 
CONTACT BIRTHRIGHT, INC. 
, ... ,
our contest to choose the man with 
307 ~ ;..,(M $! •• 211-7800• • 
the most poise, charm, in­
~ 
telligence. wit and talent," said 
.J udv H.odino. Student Senate Aeti~ities Chairman. 
Notre Dame Student Govern­nwnt {)fficial T.C. Treanor to the has sent a letter to the St. Mary-of­the-WoOds Student Senate saying, "WP here at the University of Notre Dame. will have nothing to do with the tawdry. sexist. 'games' ~!aged at the bastion of female chauvinism . St. Mary-of-the­\\' nods College." 
"WP will have nothing to do with Your efforts to transform real human beings into mere objects of Yiscereal sex. Get this straight ­\H' are not mere selections of muscles and sinew. though we may appear so at first glance, and we ,,·pre not designed merely for your rll'praved gratification." the letter 

IN SOUTH BEND. P.O. BOX 824 
OR CALL 289·1034.
NOW THRU 
THURSDAY Before you buy a diamond learn all the facts.· It may save you a
OPEN 6:15 
qreat deal. Call James 3118. 
tNTERHALL HOCKEY TONIGHT: fiATTLE OF THE TOWERS. THE GRACE GORILLAS VS. 
THE FLANNER FROGS. GAME TIME 10:30. FANS INVITED. 
MEN! ..WOMEN! 
JOBS ON SHIPS! No expereince 
required. Excellent pay. 
Worlwide travel. Perfect sum. 
mer job or career. Send $2.00 tor 
information. SEAFAX, Dept. F7, 
P.O. Box 2049, Port Angeles, Washington 98362. 
WANTED 
So. Carolina Basketball tickets 
needed for underpriveleged So. 

Bend students. If you would like
continued. 
to contribute, call John 288·1001 or 
"Hather. we are thinking, 
Theresa 4437.
NOTE:
feeling men. Besides we will all be 
Interested in some good poker
downtown watching 'Deep Thr'lat' 
"CROMWELL" 
<1ames?
at the local Bijou. Up against the 
Ca II Larry 3245.
ONCE
wall. female chauvinist sows." it concludes. 
Several men needed immediately
6:30 
tor telephone sateswork. Hourly
Till' beauty contest features a/ 
wage. For more information call 288·6026.
dance honoring the contestants -------------------..------.......-4: 
PERSONALS 
Chi·Boom Boom Twins: Even H we miss your act, we still love you. Happy B·Day 
FOR RENT 
Available tor September, two, three, four and six bedroom home's. Call Mr. Hambarger. 234­9364. 
Rooms P, kitchen. $40 mo. 233­1320. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost: gold SMC class ring, 73, initials BAB, call 4140. 
.. 
MADISON FRIEND LOST PURSE AT KUBIAKS, YELLOW KNIT, DEPSERATELY NEED I D'S. CALL TOM 8930. 
FOR SALE 
For Sale 1966 Dodge window van! Call Rich after 5 pm. 288­0266. 
AKC Labrador pups. One male & one female. Call Jim Thean 283· 6556, 9-5. 
4th of July fireworks for sale. Send name & telephone number to Box 685 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
For Sale Ampex 1455 Stereo reel rteck with auto.reverse, $150. Call 3017 after 8 pm. 
For Sale: 71 Pinto, good  con­ 
dition, must sell, 1500 or  best  
otter, c a II 259-0787.  
1969 Haig 'Jitra's  
Aluminum shafts  
4 woods 8 rions  
Call Joe 8247.  

RIDES WANTED 
Need ride to Mass. or anywhere in N.E., March lOth. Will share rtriving and expenses. Call Mark 8982. 
Need ride to Cleveland can leave anytime Thursday, March 8. Call Greg 1336. 
Need ride for two or three to St. Louis · March 2 weekend . call Die k 233·6280. 
Need ride back from Chicago O'Hare tor two on March 18. 3118, James. 
Need ride to Lauderdale, Hollywood or Miami. $$, tor ·spring break. Ken 3679. 
Desperately need ride to New Jersey for break (March 8 or 9) sh ~re expenses. Call Tom 7852. 
I need ride to U of Illinois, Champayne Friday March 2 and or back Sunday share expenses, AI 8900. 
Need ride to N .E. P.A. Mar. 9 after 5:00pm, call Ed 1604. Drive, s:1are e¥penses. 
4 girls need ride to NY or NJ at break. Call 4101, 5154, 4028. 
Two guys desper.ately need ride to Miami on Mar. 7. Will share rtriving and expenses. Call Pete 8810. Please give us a break! 
Need ride to Milwaukee. Leave Friday, 2 Mar 73 afternoon or night. Call Paul 8276. 
Need ride to Wash. D.C. area March 8 or 9. Will share driving and expenses. Call 4822. 
l, 
l 
j 
l 
1 i 
I ~ 
j j 
~ 
1 J J 
1 
l 
• I 
i 
-
years expereince. Call aft~ 4:00 pm, 272.3980 or 272·2765. 
NEW YORK GALLERY TOUR Round trip by bus from South 
Bend. Marcn 8-12. Tran­sportation $35, hotel $10.50 nile. Sign up, Dept. of Art, 132 O'Shag. 
FOR INFORMATION ABOUT GAY AWARENESS COM­MUNITY, CALL 7789, W-Th·F 8·10 
pm. 
Need money for Spring Break? Borrow $20 to $150 from Morrissey 
Loan  Fund.  Monday  .  Friday  
11:15·12:15.  Basem ent  of  
LaFortune.  

JUNIORS! Now is the time to be 
thinking about law school.  Dean  
Waddick  will  answer  your  
questions  Tuesday  night.  Feb.  

27th. Engineering Auditorium. 
7:30 pm. Sponsored by the Pre. Law Society. ,.,.,.., 
;» 
Ride the Cosmic Wave1 Vote Wesolowski-Angeluzzi. 
Cl1ild Care Workers . Immediate openings and ot 1er openings within the next sev• rat months for married couples without dependent childre:-~. To live in tour days -off tour days. Residential Trea:ment Program tor emotionaloy disturbed adolescents. Write to FORT WAYNE CHILDREN'S HOME, 
BOX 5038, HAZELWOOD STATION. FORT WAYNE, IN· DIANA, with resume. Must be at least age 21. 
OVERSEAS JOBS Summer or permanent. Australia, Europe, kS. America, Africa, etc. All professions, $500-$1,000 monthly, expenses paid, sightseeing. Free info. Write TWR Co. Dept F2, 2550 Telegraph Ave., Berkeley, CA 94704. 
TYPING: PAPERS, SID­DERTATIONS, THESIS. IM­MEDIATE DELIVERY. CALL 287·1222 AFTER 5. 
Hot 1ine crisis phone Have a problem you'd like to discuss anonymously (drugs, bad trip, family relations, suicide, contraception, pregnancy, abortion, etc)? Call this nl!mber 
282-2323. 
A BETTER CHOICE IS LIFE FOR THE UNBORN CHILD · 
-
8 the observer_!uesday, February 27, 1973 
Bengal Bout semis scheduled tonight 
~·£'ar's winner at 170 pounds. It will
by Mike Hansen 
It's th£' semifinals of the 42nd lw Carn£>y's effective punching 
annual B£'ngal Bouts tonight and against the speed and defense of 
tlw matchups on the 16-bout card l\ll'Grath in what should be one of 
indica!<• it's anyone's guess as to the best matches in recent years. 
who will move on to Thursday's Th£' 'Vinnl'r will. probabilitity, face 
championship round. clt>fending champion. Roland Chamblee who should have no
A crowd of nearly 4,000--the best troubl£' d£>feating Joe Szady.
in I'£'CI:'nt years--watched 20 fight£>rs. win their quaterfinal 
Much attention will also be 
matches on Sunday and meet 
focusl'd. in the 135-pound class. 
dir£'ctor Dominick .J. <Nappyl Two-time champion Pat McGrath Napolitano is hopeful of another will m('et the man he defeated last large tournout tonight for the 
\'Par. Matt Cavanaugh. And Larrycharity £'vent. Spnwrad. the 1972 125-po4nd victm< will face some stiff com­
And £'V£'ryone in attendance will pPiition in .J£'rry Bradley, runner­watch the f£>ature fight of the up in 1971 and a four-year veteran.
PV£'ning lwtw£>en Ed Carney and Hill Mc(;rath. 
A r£>match of Mike Sanders andCanwy has won two consecutive Tom Bole in the 155-pound division tillPs at u;o pounds but has moved is questionable after the Sundayup to the 165-pound division this pprformances of Ken McCandless ~·ear to chal!t nge McGrath, last and .Jim Burkart. Champ Sanders 
Jim Don a I dso n======================================================================================================= 
The Irish Eye 
·===============================================================================:;========================= PIayoff patter 
l t 
1t'd lw nil'l' if th£'Notn• Dame hockey team could sit back for awhile and l'OIIIPIIlplatl' tlwir successes of last weekend. 
l 
:\ s\\'l'l'P of Wisconsin, !l-5 and -1-3. at the ACC gave the Irish 14 wins in llwir last 17 WCH:\ games and enablt>d them to climb into a third place tie 11ith l\lichigan Tt>ch. Hut ·r the Irish want to maintain their high position, tlw\·'ll havl' to forg£'1 ab011t resting and continue to play winning hockey. 
:\otn· !lame and lhP lluski£'s both have 40 points. three more than fifth plal'l' I\Iichigan Stall' and fiv£> less than the second place Badgers. \\'isconsin's two losses. combinl'd with Denver's eight-point sweep of l\li!'higan Stall'. :i-Oand !l-:l, clinch£'d the WCHA title for the Pioneers. But l'o;lch l\lurray Armstrong's club is the only team in the league that's sure of tis final finishing position. 
llqwnding on a numlwr of "ifs". Notre Dame could wind up anywhere 1rom '-l'l'ond to fifth in 1 he final standings. If the Irish sweep Duluth. tlwv'lllinish no wors£' ll>an third. And if Minnesota could manage a split in its lour-point st>riPs at Wisconsin while Notre Dame was winning two, tiH·n tlw Iri:.;h would t>nd up second and be assured of playing both its s1·mi-l'inal and final playoff series on home ice. 
:\lichigan l'Pch will be hosting Denver in a four-pointer and the Irish an• hoping that tlw PionPers won't just be going through the motions and r1·s1 ing for flw first round of the playoffs, which open Monday. If Denver l'an win on1• gaml' in Houghton. then Notre Dame will only have to beat I luluth om·p to wrap up at least one home ice playoff series. 
I\ I il'hig;l'l Stall', which has 10 points left to play for--all against th.e IPague's worst tl'ams--looms a favorite to grab off a home playoff series \\ ilh a two-pointer against Michigan (3-24) and an Pight-point series with ('olorado ''ollt>gl' <4-22> at fo:ast Lilnsing,tlw Spartans ought to be abl6.~o O\'!•rhaul 'l'!'l'h. and. if the Irish should dropa game next weekend, Notre ll.lnll'. too. 
Tim 1\h'NPill. Notre Dame's assistant hockey coach, isn't the sort of fpllow that draws attention to himself. He's quiet, always a gentleman, ;111d ni'\'Pr Sl'Pks Pven the fringe of the limelight. 
ll!'s a I so an authority on hockey and has been instrumental in the sport's dPvl'lopment at Notre Dame. When he talks about hockey, !'SJWl'ially thl' way it's played at NotrPDame, it pays to listen. 
Sitting in thl' press box last weekend, intently following the action and making noll's about things to be discussed in the locker room between pPriods. l\1eNPill e:.:pended at least as much nervous energy as any player on thl' icP. And when Saturday's thrilling, nip-and-tuck game was over, thl•n• t·mlldn't have been many people in the packed arena happier or nwn• rl'liPI'l'd tl)an McNeill. 
MtPrwards. MeNPill talked about Notre Dame's two victories over \\'iSI'OIISill. 
"\\'!'.V<' rPally coml.' of age." he said. "We've matured a great deal. We lll'li£'\'!' in oursl.'lves and I think that when we have to go out and do sonwthing to win. W£' can gather ourselves together and go out and do it." 
··Last night <Friday>, Wisconsin's go-ahead goal went in off one of our playpr's skatf.'s." he continued. "But it didn't crush us, and we came on to 11 in. You ean point to the excellent forechecking of Pat Conroy's line, 11 hid1 \I'P f<'lt had to hold its own and did so much more than that. Another «'xarnpiP is l\1ark Kronholm's goaltending. It was the goaltending that kPpl us in th£'rl' both nights. When we were down one goal, he never gave up that l'xfra goal that meant we would have needed three to win. Mark pla~·Nl two super. super games." 

"Wl'l'l' still a little rough in spots and lack finesse in some areas, but \\'l'n• playing for l.'ach other now and that means a great deal." 
Sport~ Shorts: 
l'rior to last Wl'ekend. Wisconsin had won 12 or 14 games with Notre llanw. 1\lik<' Dunphy, whose broken leg will be in traction for the next eight 1\!'Pks. is rl'l'Upl•rating in room 642 of St. Joseph's Hospital. Eddit• Bumbacco retained his lead in the WCHA scoring race, picking 
up two goals and four assists to boost his league totals to 28 goals and 29 assists. :i7 points. 
ThP Irish have nl'Vl'r defeated their final regualr season opponent, 1\linnpsota·Duluth. Tlw Bulldogs have won three and tied one of their pn·l·ious four gamPs with Notre Dame. 
Fin• sl•niors. eo-captians Bill (;reen and Paul Regan. Mark Steinborn. ;ill·tinw can•pr scoring IPader .John Noble and Chris Cathcart. were in­t rodue!'d tot lw capacity crowd Saturday night. prior to their final regular s!•ason ;q>JWarancl' for thl.' Irish. 
Ha~ lh·Lon•nzi was Notre Damp's "bad boy" last weekend, collecting ~~~ pt•nalt~· minutPs. Tlw assessment. which included a 10-minute mis­('omlul't pl'nalt~· for bumping an official while protesting a call. more than douhll'd his l!•agu!' total. 
-
goes against grad student McCandless while Bole takes on ll'fly Burkart. 
A similar rematch in the finals belwl'en Mike Suddes and Tom llanlon is not assured. Suddes, who lost to Hanlon in the semifinals last year but won in 1971 draws one of the best novices in Bill Pioli. Hanlon has been paired with eheerleader Charles Morrison in th£> other 145-pound fight. 
Pat Steenberge should get past upsl.'l victor Mike McGuire in the 175-pound division but there is no way onl' can predict the outcome of the fight between Cecil Boot, last ~·ear's runner-up. and senior Mike \\'l'lsh. This will be another key bout to watch. 
Thrl'e other divisions also have two matches schedules. Steve 1\lol'l'is and Marc Ronquillo tangle in the night's opening fight at 125 pounds and will be followed by the Tom Garrity-Mike Cramer en­counter. Steve Duffy and Greg BPnninghoff are matched at 140 pounds while Tom Hudes and Ray K!•rn will battle to determine who \\'ill face the winner of the Duffy-
Holy Cross claims IH cage crown 
by Stan Urankar 
Mix a veteran of last year's lnterhall championship team. a starting freshman forward from a sl'ason ago. a variety of assorted playmakers. rebounders and long­range bombers, and plenty of good old-fashioned hall spirit together and what do you get? The new campus basketball champions, the ruggPd Holy Cross Hogs. 
Tlw Cross made it four straight Ill titles for the South Quad as they swamped Keenan in two straight ganws to capture the best-of-three seriPs. After an undefeated regular spason and a big semifinal win o\'er pre-season favorite Off­Campus. IIC moved into the Arena last Saturday afternoon and built up a 21-point halftime margin as they coasted to a 55-43 opening game decision. 
Last night, the scene was shifted to the Auxiliary Gymnasium, but the facts remained the same, With .John Cornelius and Bedford Bruno controlling the boards, the Hogs raced to another 12-point triumph, :i(;-44. sending Keenan back north looking for answers. 
The victory was sweet for a dish£>artened hall which had longed for a campus football title that was snatched away from them by Dillon in the final game of the regular season. So the Hogs turned to the hardwood, and ravaged the rt>st of the league. 
FrPd Baranowski, Cross hall prPsident and a starting guard for the Hogs. didn't see clear sailing, though. "We were worried about Off-Campus all season, especially afll'r seeing them in their last rl'gular season game and against Dillon in the playoffs," said Baranowski. 0-C didn't prove too much. though. and Keenan loomed as the last barrier. 
"EI'en after we beat Off­Campus. it didn't mean we were going to look past Keenan,"· the siPady (;-2 junior added. "We were afraid of suffering a let-down against KPenan. but the reboun­ding of Cornelius and Bruno proved the key to the cham­pionship gamPs." 
With .John Paul Sweeney pouring a ganw-high 16 points, the Hogs ran away with game one when they outscorl'd the Northerners, 20-4, in tlw s(•cond quarter to build up a comfortable :!7-16 midgame cushion. KPenan staged a mild spcond half rallv that closed the final margin to an l'Ven dozen, but tlw contpst had bePn long decided. Conwlius. a starting guard with Pangborn's titlists of a season ago, chipp!'d in with II, and Dave Schroell'r added 10 for the winners. 
KPPIWn started the second elear!'d thl' bench. contest on the right note when Paul BalancPd scoring headed the ('1!'111Pns gave the Northerners a 2-Cross attack, as Cornelius and 
oPdgP on.a pair of free throws just Schroeh•r Pach hit for a dozen. seconds into the game. Un.­Bruno contributed II points and an fortunatply, the losers didn't tally idl•ntical amount of rebounds as again until only 2:38 remained in II<' elicked on a solid 41 percent of tiJP opening pl'riod with Paul's twin lhPir shots from lhl' field, com­hrotlwr Petl' hitting a jumper. In pa n•d to only :10 percent for helwPPn. tlw Cross ran off ten big Kl'l'nan. The losers' .Jim Donnelly nwrkPrs to open a comfortable took game-scoring honors with 14 ll'ad that grPw to 27-20 at the half. points. and Paul Clemt>ns added 12. 
Holy ('ross blewt hingswide open Tlw l!lli!l Stanford squad now in the third quarter with a 17-10 ranks as the last North Quad outburst that was paced by former campus hardwood champ. as frosh starll'r Bruno's boardwork. Alumni< 1!170l,l'angborn < 1971-72), Tlw lead l'ventually opened to 50-34 and now Holy Cross have since in the final Sl'ssion before the Hogs kept tlw title in the South. 
Playoff tix distribution 
This past weekend, the Notre Dame hockey team moved one step closer to the home ice berth in tlw WCHA playoffs by sweeping a four-point series from league­leading Wisconsin. Though "Ldty" Smith's icers haven't dinched the first-division finish, the possibility does exist that ND will host the 1973 WCHA playoffs, and the Irish ticket office began distributing playoff tickets this morning at nine o'clock. 
Today's distribution is for student season ticket holders only, however. The ACC's second floor box office will remain open until 4 p.m., and all season ticket holders desiring playoff seating-in the same location as their season ticket-are asked to bring the face of their ticket booklets with them to th£> ticket window. 
All other Notre Dame and St. l\lary's students may purchase playoff tickets beginning Wed­nPsday. fo'l'bruary 28th, from 9 
a.m. to5p.m. at the ticket windows at (;ate 10 of the ACC. 
The semi-final series, if played at Notre Dame. will be held on 1\londay. March 5th. and Tuesday, !\larch lith. Ticket prices for those games will be $2.00 per game for students and $:!.00 per game for the public. Tlw finals. if played at Notre Daml'. will be played on Friday. March !tth. and Saturday, l\lareh lOth. Prices then will be the same for students. but will be $4.00 pl'r ganw for the public. 
A limit of one ! I l student ticket per gam!' for personal use has been sPt. and additional tickets must be JHII't'haspd at full price. JD's must hl• presen!Pd at time of purchase. and ii1dividual students may pn•sl'nt more than one ID but can purchas!' only ticket per !D. S1•paral!' checks are requested­llll!' for tlw sPmi finals, one for the linals and checks may be made payable to lh£' !lniversity of Notre l>anw. 
If Notre Dame does not host U-.e Sl'mi-finals and-or finals, tickets for unplayed games must be presented or mailed for refund at thl' ACC ticket office on or before Friday. April 6th. 
Irish fencers post 
swe~p of quad-meet 
by Lefty Ruschmann Led by the perfect 6-0 weekend of sabrt>m!.'n Mike Lyons, the Notre Dame fencing team swept its own Quadrangular Meet over the w(·ekend, defeating Wisconsil'l, Illinois and Tri-Siatl' by lopsided margins Saturday at the ACC. Tlw triple win boosted the Irish dual ml'et record to 11-3 this season. "In my opinion, this team has l'very bit the character I thought it had earlier this season," a happy coach Michael I liCic.:o said aftPrwards. "We had the potential and it came together against Illinois." . Wisconsin was the first opponent to face the Irish. who prevailed by a score of 20-7. Tri-CaJllain Dan l\lulligan and his sabremen ran 'IP a quick !l-0 lead the squad. led by lri-captain Mike Matranga and .John Lauck. finished 7-2 against the Badger epPeists. The foilists, however. struggled to a 4-5 showing in tlwir specialty as tri­captain l\1ike Cornwall suffered thn•£' defeats against Wisconsin's loi lnwn. Till' Irish next faced Illinois, a ll'am which brought a 15-1 record into tlw 111<'£'1. But Notre Dame rackPd up a t:l-2 lt>ad in the sabre ;11ul l'pl'l' !'Vl'nts to overcome the lllini stn•ngth in the foil com­JWiition. as all thrl'e tri-captains !•nwrgPd wimwrs in the 19-9 Irish rout. The swordsm('n then easily put away Tri-State by a 21-6 score to dose out their perfect weekend. 

lknninghoff bout. In the unheralded 160-pound division.f•·eshman Chet Zawalich will !Pst his prowess against .Jerry Samaniego while Jim Lepley and KPvin Poupore will meet in a battle of TKO winners. 
Students are reminded that 
tonight's semifinals begin at 8 p.m. in the Athletic and Convocation C1•nter. Admission is $1.00 unless ~·ou purchase a combination ticket good for Thursday's finals for the pricl' of $1.50. All proceeds got to tlw lkngal missions in BangladPsh. 





