-~--------~-----~­
On The Inside 
S.G. Reorganized See page 6 


Vol. VIll, No. 7 serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 

Hesburgh and Etienne No parties speak at Carney this weekend 
by Ann McCarry Staff Reporter 
by R. Thomas Thut>s Staff Reporter 
Joining in the jovial carnival spirit_ sw~ping campus, Sudent Body President Denms Etienne Hall Parties will not be allowed and University President Father Theodo~e this weekend. The Office of Student Hesburgh projected hopes of a successful year m Affairs has made no exceptions. 
their weh · e to students at the South Quad Fisher Hall submitted a hall 
party proposal to the Dean of ­
carnival l<J ..;t night. . , . 
"There 1 a lot of cooperation n the air, said Students' office on Tuesday, ­the horse-uited Etienne, who let Hesburgh September 11. The party was to take model the molded head of his costume .. place Friday, September 14. This 
"It's going to take " lot of unde~~tandm~, but 
action was in compliance with the overall it's going to be..; ~ood year, he cnti!'lu~. 
UnivP.rsity guidelines proposed by Interjecting a serious note among ~~ n~ght s the Deans office. These guidelines festivities, Etienne asked students to JOin m ~e will be presented to the Student student government support of theGallo wme Life Council <SLCl this Monday for 
ratification.The >pecific guidelines
boycott. , · d 
concerning hall parties are as"It's a confused issue at p~esent,. ~~ follows:Etienne. "But, if you're on the side of JUStice, 
1. No social gathering of any size 
drink good old New York wines!" Etienne then introduced Hesburgh who per­
will ever be of a character that is
"I can't tell you how happy I am to see you back ... " 
degrading to any of the par­petuated the mood of the evening. 
" .. .it's going to be a good year." ticipants. There, any drunkenness, 
boorish behavior or damage to the disaster areas in the western Africa, visiting property will never be tolerated. refugee camps and crowded cities. 
2. The living quarters of our 
"It is something you have to see from a 
residence halls are primarilycountry like ours," said Hesburgh. 
places for 'living and study, and as 
"We are all here at Notre Dame to be 
such cannot physically ac­
somebody, to be somebody so we can do 
comodate social gatherings of any
something," philosophized Hesburgh. "With a 
size. · · · When an individual hall 
little bit of planning we can do something long 
has adequate recreational 
range about this and the other places in the world 
facilities, the events that arethat are hungry tonight." 
sponsored there, must always be in 
Hesburgh continued his speech, commending 
character with the home like and 
students on their participation in community 
academic atmosphere of the place. 
service activities. 
For example,some possible kinds 
"What really thrilled me walking through 
of gatherings would be: Hall or 
LaFortune the other night, was to see so many of 
section dinners, receptions for 
you signing up to do something for someone 
guests or lecturers; discussion and 
else,'' he said."You are people who have good 
seminar groups, etc., where 
things in your hearts. You are people who can do 
drinking of wine and beer is ob­
somethng to make this a better world." 
viously incidental to the main 
Illustrating his point, Hesburgh spoke of his activity.visit to the CILA project in St. Lucia, where a 3. All social gatherings in the
small number of ND-SMC students spent the 
Hall must have the approval andsummerdoingvolunteer work. 
the active involvement of the Rector
"This is the kind of thing that NotnDameis all 
and staff. The Rector will inform
about," said Hesburgh. "This is what 
the Dean of Students at least fiveChristianity is all about." 
days in advar ce, stating the nature 
In closing, Hesburgh commended the student 
and place of such activites. 
body and encouraged them to continue to work 
4. Students are allowed to drink
Hesburgh continued by recountir.g his own for a higher good. 
in their private rooms, but also summer activities, highlightng his government "I hope you will have a wonderful year," said only in a manner that is in har­trip to the African drought area_ There he ac­Hesburgh. "I hope that, because of the visions mony with the character of acompanied U.S. troops on airlifts t~ tte heart of we share, we'll make a brigher world, too." 
<continued on page 5) 
MESBIC to aid minority business 
are at the very heart of this for assistance. minority enterprises as they have "It's frustrating experiencesystem" and called upon the entire Financial assistance through with the ,provision of adequate when we try to compete Manycommunity to join MVC, Inc., in 1\IVC, Inc., will include loans, debt financial assistance. white businessmen took at us as the effort "to bring minority group securities, or capital stock in-"The University of Notre 'black professions' and don't thinkAssociates Corporation of North 
individuals in the Michiana area vestments, or a combination Dame," he continued, "has we can do the work, when actuallyAmerica and Notre Dame today 
into the mainstream of our thereof. Carmichael said the developed a. unique program to we do the same work in the sameannounced the formation of a 
economy." company will encourage financial provide this very important way -and maybe better -as whiteminority enterprise small business Commu.nity leaders represen­packages in which banks and other technical and management ~ consulting engineer firms."
investment company <MESBICl to 
ting the business and banking financial institutions join in assistance. Under this program,help bring blacks, women and area, labor, governmental 
providing assistance to the small second-year graduate students in Carmichael said the Michianaothers fully into the free enterprise 
system. agencies, educational institutions business firm. business administration and law area business community must and minority group organizations All tvpes of business en-will be available to assist the make a conscious effort to change
Announcement of MVC, Inc., 
were invited to the conference to terprises are eligible -minority entrepreneur." such attitudes. Specifically, hewith an initial capitalization of 
hear how the Michiana MESBIC manufacturing, wholesale, retail "These students will work asked them to do business with$150,000 was made at a Michiana 
will operate. and service -and there are no closely with the entrepreneurs in minority business firms.
MESBIC Conference at Notre 
geographic or market limitations. developing and putting together "MVC. Inc., and the banking c­Dame by Dr. O.C. Carmichael. Jr., 
MVC, INC., OPERATES Small businesses generally are financing packages for MVC, Inc., mmunity can provide adequate
chairman of the board of UNDER A LICENSE AND defined as having $5 million or less consideration and in developing financing,'' he stated. "NotreAssociates,and Rev. Theodore M. 
REGULATIONS OF THE Small in assets and a net worth of not and applying sound management Dame and others can provideHesburgh, C.S.C., president of the 
university. Business Administration of the more than $2.5 million. They may practices as the business is neded technical and professional
U.S. Department of Commerce be new ventures or already operated." know-how.
Hesburgh called formation of 
and offers both financial and established enterprises. Carmichael in his remarks But, the minority entrepreneurMVC, Inc., "a significant step 
technical assistance to en­Melvin L. Holmes, managing stressed the need to go beyond cannot succeed unless the entiretoward the full equalization of 
trepreneurs from minority group director of MVC, Inc., explained financial and technical assistance community is willing to buy hisopportunity for all ctizens of this backgrounds. that federal guarantees of to change the attitudes of the white product or service on the samearea by making availa ~ 
Minority groups are defined as MESBIC loan packages provide a majority business community if basis
resources to bring those hampered as it would buy any other 
those groups "underrepresented" possible total financial asietance of the challenge to bring in minority product or service."
by social or economic disad­in the free enterprise system and up to $2.5 million for all minority entrepreneurs as full participatins Dr. Charles W. Murdock,vantages not of their own making include blacks, women and in­business firms in the area. in the system is to succeed. associate professor of law, and Dr. 
into the business entrepreneurial dividuals of Mexican and some Hesburgh said both Notre Dame He cited the experience of a Frederick W. Dow, Hayes-Healysystem." 
other ethnic backgrounds. At least and Associates have been as successful black engineering professor of travel andCarmichael said that "in­50 percent of a business must be concerned to develop a strong consultant with his own firm in ew management, have worked closely dividuals who organize, finance owned and managed by such in­program of technical and business York City, Fred Hannaham, who with him in the organization ofand -operate business enterprises 
dividuals to make the firm eligible management assistance to recently said: MVC, Inc. 



----~--~----------------~ 
'. 
f ~· II I ,~ ~ 
.. ' 
~ . ~ 
the observer Thursday,September13,1973
J. 

warld 
briefs 
Washington--Lucianne Goldberg, a freelance writer who spied on the presidential campaign of Sen. George 
S. McGovern says she was among a number of persons who puffed marijuana while traveling on the Senator's press plane. 
Washington-One of two senators allowed to read secret FBI on White House wire tapping says there is nothing in it to delay confirmation of Henry Kissinger as ~cretary of State. 
Washington--The Republican Party's new self-examination committee is on the road after a bumpy dayof organization in which one of its sub­committes tried to self-destruct and another forgot what is was supposed to be doing. 
Wa<;hington--President Nixon's lawyers contend that com~lelling him to turn over his Watergate tapes in the i<Iterest of the justice would be a "gash below the waterline of the ship of the presidency." 
Washington-Parting with past policy, and extending a new olive branch, the Nixon administration has asked Congress to participate in developing next year's 
budget. 

an campus laday 
4:00 p.m.--seminar, radiation-chemistry seminar, 
conference room, radiation research building 
7:00 p.m.--organizational meeting, farley striders, 
Iafortune ballroom 8:15p.m.--concert, elizabeth wrancher, soprano, smc little theatre 


Nominations open lor SMC elections 
Nominations opened at 8 a.m. 
Wednesday for nine Student 
Governme1.t pasts at St. Mary's. 
Positions available are the 
Regina Hall Vice-Presidency and 
eight Student Assembly s~ats · 
thre~ in Regina, one in Holy Cross', 
two m LeMans, one day student ·and one Off campus. All Offices are open to all classes. 
Nominations will clase at mid­night ~ednesday, Sept. 19, and campa•grung will take place from ~pt. 20-24. Balloting is scheduled from IOalm. to 6p.m., Sept. 25in each residence hall. 
Interested students may contact Patty Kampsen, Elections Chairman, at 5704. 



SENIORS 
who missed yearbook portraits last spring-­
LAST CHANCE 
sign up at dining halls Thurs., or Fri. night at dinner. Or call Dome office 283-7524 
Wed. or Thurs. 7 p.m. -9 p.m. 
Bike registration announced 
by Howard Wood 
Staff Reporter 

An increasing number of stolen bicycles has generated a strong student interest in the first day of bicycle registration. Chris Singleton, a senior in charge of registration procedures, stated, ':' People are realizing the dangers and problems of owning bikes. They are spending a lot of money for them and are taking every precautionary method of protection. such as locks and 
registration." 
Singleton noted that 40 bikes have been recovered by campus security. These recovered bikes remain unclaimed because the owners do not know their serial number. Singleton hopes this situation can be prevented in the future if owners register their 
bikes. 
"There is no need for mandatory registration but full cooperation from the students is necessary to make registration a success," emphasized Singleton. 
Registration could provide an excellent protection against thieves, Stolen bikes could not b'e sold on campus or pav:ned because would be registered again and records would be cross-checked. 
Students wishing to register their bikes may do so between 2:30 and 5 p.m. Thursday and Friday in LaFortune. Student Center and 5 to 6 p.m. on the same two days in the dining halls. 
To register a bike this week, a student should bring the serial number, color, priced, manufacturer, year, and any distingushing features to the booths in LaFortune and the dining halls. Students need not bring the bike itself if they bring this in­formation. 
Singleton added that if a bike does not have a serial number, please bring it to the security office for stamping next Tuesday, Sept. 18. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the stuaents of the University of Notre Dame and St. M~ry's College. Subscriptions may be purchased tor S8 per semester ($14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. Second class 


Knights of Columbus 


Friday, Sept. 14 Saturday, Sept. 15 Showings:6,7:30,9; 10:30,12 
0

Admission s1 ° Members Free 
IS BACK FROM THE GREAT RAID of 1973!! 
Tequila. Sunrise SOc Wine Coolers 35c 




Uhe 19inJjammer 
HAIR STYLI"'JG FOR DISCRIMINAT:NG MEN 

Long or short, the way your hair looks makes a difference to you. We will take the time to help you find the style best for you. That's a promise! 
All Services by Appointment 
1637 Lincoln Way West Phone 232-6622 
NOTRE DAME CONCERTS-STUDENT UNION 
presents 


CHUCK 
BERRY 
special guests: The Coasters 
SAT., SEPT. 22 at 8:30 pm Convocation Center 
Tickets: $5.50, 4.50, 3.00 on sale now at the Student Union ticket office and the ACC ticket 


It's Thursday Again, Ladies Nite 
and 




NICKlE'S 

at e 


Thursday, September 13, 1973 
the observer 
I' 


(. . . ... . . .. . . . . .... . 
..... ·' ... ·~

Carney a success 
· Whatever.Jhe Age, I •J I 
by Patrick Hanifin Staff Reporter 
The Carney '73 games and Frisbee Fly-in yesterday evening on the South Quad were a well appreciated success thanks to four months planning and an intensive week's work by the Orientation Committee and the Student Government. 
vrientation Co-Chairman Daniel Schipp and David Caruso and their cc>mmittee provided a number of game booths in addition to the plentiful food and music. Students could toss bean bags, nerfballs, footballs. darts and rings to win such prizes as hats, burgers and frisbees. 
The event which drew the biggest crowds was the Frisbee Contest. Students competed in two 
No decr~21ase 
is expected at Nickie's 
by Ken Bradford Staff Reportt>r 
Despite last year's highly publicized raid and increased competion, Nick, owner of "Nickie's", expects no decrease inn business this vear. 
"Competition ts good for the consumer and ultimately good for the retailer," said Nick, who declined to give his last name. He stated that there is more than enough business to go around and that the student is entitled to have a choice. 
He added that it is too early to tell what effect the opening of a new bar, "The Library," will have, but pointed to improvements in his business, including new lunch services. 
Regarding last year's raid in whch several Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students were arrested, Nick expressed his 
belief that the story may have been distorted in last year's papers. 
"Minors were not let into "Nickie's", Nick stated. He ex­plained that all ID's were checked and that everyone admitted to the bar possessed cards identifying 

themas being of legal drinking age. After the raid, twenty ID cards were found discarded under the tables in the bar. 
He also argued that the raid was ordered by a city official with the intent of harrassing Notre Dame students and himself. The illegal raid took place after police and students exchanged words outside the bar, he added. 
"Nickie's" is located about a mile from campus on Eddy Street. 


individual events, Accuracy and Distance, and in the Guts Frisbee team event. Thomas Parseghian won the first event for throwing a frisbee through a hoop fifty feet away and Joseph Essman took the Distance award. They, and the Notre Dame Guts Frisbee Team, will compete Sept. 30 at the Nor­thern Indiana Intercollegiate Frisbee Fly-in at South Bend. Winners there will perhaps compete in the International contest next year inMichigan. 
Tim McNerney of WRBR who arranged the events said that he hoped that the Northern Indiana Contest would be attended by groups from SMC, UIUSB, and Bethal College as well as Notre Dame. "I'm really pleased at Notre Dame's turnout," he said, "And I expect they will do well." 


T:HE 





'1ATXNERY 
2426 LINCOLN WAY WEST-MISHAWAKA, INDIANA TELEPHONE ~ 
INDIANA'S LARGEST SELECTION Of WINE OVER BOO DIFFERENT WINES 
LARGE CHOISE OF INTERNATIONAL CHEESES FANCY FOODS, GLASSES, WINE RACKS, GIFTS 
JOHN O'HANLON '65 
BANK AMERICARD MASTERCHARGE 

Tu~r.-.,...... million people around the world have seen GODSPELL on the stage,now GODSPELL is a miracle ofa movie musical! 
:; ' SONGS t 

Hear its  
12 great hit songs •  
Including  
"DAY BY DAY"  
"SAVE THE PEOPLE"  
"BLESS THE LORD"  
•  and  
"BEAUTIFUL CITY"I  
Mon. thru Fri. 2: 00 -7: 15 . 9; 00 . Sat. and Sun. 2:00-J:47  ~,~O:~':~t(ll,:: '0-. .,.NT•os ,,..., CAttfiUfiLMfUTIVAl1  
5:30  -7:30  -9:15  



THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Art Ferranti Executive Editor 
lee Gentine Business Manager 
Jerry lutkus Editor-in-Chief 
NEWS: 283-1715 EDITORIALS: 283-8661 BUSINESS: 283-7471 
Dan BarreH Executive Editor 
John Kloos Advertising Manager 

A Day Off 
Hill Street 
dan barrett 
H only my mother could see me now. 
All summer I told her how everything was all set; living off campus wasn't going to be a problem because we had planned out everything ahead of time. The rmly kids that got into trouble were the ones that 
didn't plan ahead. Right? .
Thursday, September 13, 1973 
Wrong. Just ask us, the big plann'Jrs. We still don't have enough 


Now To Work 
Carney '73 showed a lot yesterday. In particular, it showed that student government here can really serve as a vibrant force bringing together the people of this campus. A great deal of respect has to be given to Dan Schipp, Dave Caruso and their hardy band of dedicated workers who have devoted themselves to Freshman Orientation and the Carnival, among other things. Their tireless efforts produced a really magnificent evening at Notre Dame. 
But in many respects, the fun is over. The hope remains that student govern­ment can continue to produce these great activities, but now they must get down to the more serious task of supportng and protecting student's rights and causes at ND. 
This kind of work is perhaps the most unglamorous of all student government activities, but it is work that H-Man and associates must continue. They have devoted a lot of their time to it already this year, butthere are ·some areas into which they must delve. 
In particular, Student Government must work now in conjunction with Fr. James Shilts to form a viable, strong l'enants Union. The purpose behind the union would be to protect the interests of Notre Dame students seeking housing in the area. 
As it stands now, off-campus students are subject to the profiteering and racist whims of landlords and ladies. A fledgling Tenants Union could not wield a very large stick (unless the University put their clout behind it), but as it grows and becomes more established, hopefully it will prove an effective force in th<: interrest of these students. 
The Challenge confronts student government. They can provide a good time, they have shown they dan provide good student services. Their chore is to now take the charisma that they have generated and move it in construction areas-to give the campus a sense of dir­ection, to give the students a feel of leadership, to strive to form a cohesive campus. If they can do all these in­tangibles, then student government at 
Notre  Dame can  really claim  to  have  
done it alL  
Jerry Lutkus  

water pressure to take a decent shower. It was kind of funny at first­you turn on the water, pull the shower switch, and just wait. Even­tually, it does work. If you casll a steady drip working. And even that dries up when you turn on the kitchen water to do dishes or flush the toilet. 
And the kitchen window--we had our choice of permanently up or permanently down until the new one arrives. And all those little holes in the screen have given us a fantastic collection of flies and bugs. 
The front door has two locks, but it really isn't as safe as it would seem. We only have the key to on~. and the ott;,.. one is the lock that keeps working. We will be in real t...'luble if the landlord ever fixes the lock on the back door so that wecan't sneak in anymore. 
But even our landlord's goofs are small in comparison to some of ours. Last Saturday we figured we would beat the high price of beef by buying a whole lot of ground round before the freeze ended. Forty pounds to be exact. Then in Monday's paper (another brilliant idea to save money--you know, watch for spedals) we read that beef prices went down after the ceiling was lifted. 
I hope you miss this issue, Mom. 
Our shopping trip to K-Mart was almost as bad. What do four guys who have lived on Dining Hall meals for three years know about buying food? Not much, it turns out. We came home with ingredients for all kinds of things we didn't know how to cook anyway. <We were praying that Beth and Patti would.). ' 
Frank has been a fantastic interior decorator; our walls are covered with a Pick-and-Pay masterpieces. We identified one the other night, but the others have still got us wondering. <Actually, we wonder about all of them.) Ou:-choice of rooms was really bad. I like my room cold in the winter, and Frank likes has warm I hardly need to tell you that I have the only room with a hea~ing rluct. 
And Mom, I live with a bunch of moral dege.J!'rates. John and Harry have a running fued over who's fao.ner is the more crooked car dealer. 
At the beginning of the summer, mom taught me a lot about doing laundry, but I feign ignoracne-~I told l'leth that she has to give-me laundry lessons. And of course something always pops up so that it's easier for her to do it alone "this time" "This is the last time!" she keeps telling me. Who says living off campus isn't hard work? 
Of course, this story wouldn't be complete without mention of the neighbors--they must figure that we're setting up the Hill Street junk yard in our back yard. 
With all of our really fine automobiles, we have had a ca ·up on jacks in the backyard everyday this week. One of them, fondly dubbed · "Zoom" because of what its lost, belongs to my ex-roomie Kenny. He 
-left me a note after he worked on zoom Tuesday: "The part I replaced works really well. Only it wasn't the rigtJt piece, so I'll be back tomorrow to try again." 
Dear Editor: 

For what it's worth, we'd like to put our two bits in about the new Saga management at SMC. After checking the Saga letter of August 'l:l, which verified meal schedules for the students and stated 
that the new management team hoped that the coming year would be an en­joyable one for all, we strode up to the dining hall steps at exactly 6:02 p.m., confident that Saga management meant it when they wrote that Sunday dinner ended at 6:15. As we entered, an arm (which, we later learned, belonged to Mr. Tom Novak, new assistant manager) was thrust abruptly in front of us, and a gruff voice barked, "Dinner over at 6:00." "But your schedule said 6:15", we protested. "6:00", he repeated curtly. "Well, you'd better change your literature," we replied as we turned away. His only reply was a negative nod. 
We are not protesting the shortening of meal hours, although we feel Saga should have the courtesy to notify in advance the students it serves. What prompted this letter was the rude and immature behavior of Mr. Novak--it looks as if he will have a long way to go to achieve repoire with SMC students. 
Concerned students, Cathy Golders Maggie Dakoske Anna Lee Vahalik 
the observer 

Nile: Editor: Albert D'Antonio Asst. Nile Editor: Rick Blower Layout: Tom O'Neil, Ann Moriartz and Tim O'Reilly Compugraphic: Mike Goetz NIGHT Controller: Phil Orscheln Typists: Howard Halle and Steve Roper Proofreader: Terry Special Guests: Ted, Stemp, Jim 

dnanesbury 
qarry trudeau 
HAN, WHY IT's HIS 
/.00/ft; t/ffE 
f)O£SN'1 Mllf£: GRANO 
H&~ Rt/N Ol/T 00/'1'1 
JI/ST 1-EAV& EXPERIMENT 
Of THINGS 8&1 
• '{HOSE CA15 IN Ct/t..rt/RIIf.. 
rOMY.. av11.. 
~ 4/.0N&? H081L-ITY, 
I l
\ 
HARK. 
I 
HEY, Ol' HARTIN t...I/IHER IriNG WAS CW& HECK OF A FE/..L..AH, 
W~N'TH&P 
I 
Thursday, September 13, 1973 

the observer 5 
Student union plans full schedule 
by Jack D'Aurora 

.\

Staff Reporter 
'I for Oct.12 and 13. will headline
'\ The Service Commission has
such acts as Hounddog Taylor

This year Student Unic•n is again been b~sy renting refrigerators.
Yank Rachael, and Ho1.1sto~

planning a full schedule of events Among Its other endeavors are the
Stackhouse.

through its Cultural Arts, telephone directories which should 
The cinema '74 film series

Academic and Service com­be in by late Oct. or early Nov. and 
sponsored by the Cultural Arts

missions, and the new Minorities the freshman directories whieh
Commission will begin sometime

Social Commission. should be in by Sept. 21 . Other
this fall. The Cinema productions 

Two of the bigger events planned activities include a Student U11ion
according to Assistant Com:

by the Cultural Arts Commission information line. (Ph. 3834).
miss!oner, R~y Funk, will be high

will be the Collegiate Jazz ~tudents can use the information
quality foreign and American

Festival, featuring many of the l~ne to procure information about
films, including both classics and

nation's top collegiate jazz en­tickets, concerts etc. or voice tht>ir
musicals, such as Anonione's "Red

sembles, and tne Sophomore s~gg~stions. The service Commis­
Desert."

Literary Festival. Both of these Th~ ~-inorities ~i~l Commission hopes to increase siOn IS also planning a spring trip events will takf' place in either achv1tles for mmonty students. to Acapulco.
The Academic Commission 

March or April. Norman ~ailer a few years ago. National Players doing an adap-already has an impressive line of !h_e Minorities Social Com­The Literary Festival will be a T? help sup!Jl~ment the ~ost of the tion of Dostoevsky's "Crime and distinguished speakers scheduled miSSion, headed by Joe Moskowitz presentation of readings and L•!e~ary :f'estJva_I, a senes of fund Punishment." An appearance of for this fall including New York h~pes. to increase activities for lectures by some of the nation's r~ISI~~ f1lms Will_ start Sept:, 20 the famed mime Marceal Marceau Congresswoman Shirley Chisholm mmor1ty students and act as a most widely acclaimed novelists w1th The Last P1cture Show .. is also planned, along with a ballet on Sept. 24, and James Ridgeway sounding board for their and poets as exemplified by th~ T~e _Dance and Drama ~nes and other events. Assistant editor of Rampart~ su~gestions. Tentative plans are appdrances of Kurt Vonnegut and begms Jts season on Oct. 23 With th:· The Blues Festival, scheduled speaking on Sept 27. bemg made for speakers and films 
,to be presented.
Instead of drinking 





EmphaSis to be on sociability
(Continued from page l) 
~residence hall. dorms on campus trust Macheca
to the host's room. Macheca, Dean of Etudent Affairs, Monday, dubious and drunken
and Student Affair until the SLC

5. Therefore social gatherings i Again, hospitality and sociability and Fisher Hall government was gatherings will be eliminated.
ahs a chance to ratify the

private rooms are to always be is the emphasis, alcohol is held Wednesday, September 12. Helpfull social gatherings, where
guidelines."

pri~ate, that is thy do not att secondary. Macheca feels that in order to shed dirnking is secondary, will become 
The view of Student Affairs is

racktention, by noise,commotion or Fisher Hall compeled explicity credibility on the proposed a legal part of the Notre Dame
that if the SLC passes the ~udelines

numhPrs. and alwavs are confined with the above mentioned guidelines that no hall parties will tradition. guidelines introducicg several of not be allowed until the SLC hasSMC st"gdents their own. Ttey were: met. 
I. Tight control of liquor. No Fisher Hall, working closelv SMCAlumnae Association
must register liquor could be brought outside the with Macheca's office, has decided basement party room. tocall off their hall party for thiscars soon 2. Hall residents and female weekend. Fisher will still be a moe! guests were people involved. No hall. When the guidelnes are 
headed by new director 
outside visitors. presented to the SLC, isher's party
Saint· Mary's students must 
3. Hall members were to run the plan will accompany them. It will
register cars by September 15 or Diane Smith Davis has been district conferences in Chicago.
party with supervision by the Hall be, n fact, an exaople of a primary
be subject to a $50 fine, according appointed executive director of the She has also participated in AAC
staff. social gathering which complies
to the security office. Alumnae Association of Saint workshops on multi-media and the
I<'isher was to be the only Hall to with the new Etudent Affairs
Registration fee is $25 per year Mary's, according to a recent "new Alumnus" in Washington, D.
have a party this weekend. The uidelines.
or $15 per semester for on-campus announcement by Dr. Edward L. C., and New York City.
party was· to be a "model of ex­
students, and $10 per year for off­"Fisher's close cooperation with Henry, president, as approved by A native of Florence, Alabama,
permental" party with members
campis students. Seniors and day Student •Affairs is the type of trust the Alumnae Association Board of Mrs. Davis graduated from Saint
of the Dean's office invited by the
students are permittted to have and good will whit:h is needed to Directors. Ste succeeds Miss Helen Mary's College in 1969 with a
Hall. This gave administration an
cars. while underclassmen ,must promotehall unity and social in­M. rroll who recenty retired. bachelor of science degree in
opportunity to observe a successful
secure prmission from the dean of tPr:>rtinn ""Ommented Macheca. Mrs. Davis had been assistant chemistry cum laude, and was
guideine type party where social
students. The M lot adjacent the " gui_?eline~es are implimented executive director of the Alumnae elected to Kappa Gamma P, a
interaction was the primary
dining hall is resevre for student before SLC consideration the Association since February, 1970. Catholic women's honorary
concern ; drinking secondary. 
vehicles. possibility of a Student Manual In that capacity she represented society. Following graquation, she
The Dean's office had in mind a
Bicycle registration -is also being rule revision would be jeopar­the College at national conferences was awarded a fellowship, and
worki

handled by security all semester dized," Macheca added of the American Alumni Council teaching assistantship by the 
g model of the guidelines to be
for a fee of 75 cents. Joe Cari, vice president of CAACJ in Washington, D. C., and department of chemistry at the
presented to the SLC Monday. A 
Fisher, commented, "I hope all the Vancouver, Britis Columbia, ad at University of NotreDame.
conference between John 
by t'red l.raver 
someone else's belongings in it, One of the landlords heard from 
Staff Reporter and she did not know when the the Human Relations Council. She person would be back to claim called Montgomery and offered "I think the Civil Rights Center 
them. her apologies. "She told me she
will be a waste of time~nd money," 
'Thenshe showed me a double thought the races should live 
said William L. Montgomery, an 
room, which was also avail.able. together, and all that. Then she
alleged victim of off-campus 
But when I asked her about renting said shewas very nervous about 
housing discrimination this 
!j!is room to me, she asked me, 'Do having togo down to the Com­
summer. 
you ha 1e a car?'. I replied that I mission. She said she had never
"The money and energy could be 
did not. She answered, 'Well I think done anything like this before. She 
much better used if the building 
that you will need a car, and also asketme togo down with her. I'd 
were put up in the middle of Soutt. 
this room is very cold in the win­think she would feel more com­
Bend or. say Chicago or New York. 
ter. I believe that I told her that I fortable tellingher story without
It's doingno good here, because it 
only wanted the room for the me there!' he said. 
won't deal with problems, Mont­
summer, since I planned to move Another letter was mailed out, "I think the Civil Rights Center will be a waste of time gomery said. "The crucial civil into one of the dormitories in Sep­asking for some sort of reply or and money."
rights struggles are now occurring cussed, in this case, me," wrote
tember." encouragement. Montgomery
with women, Indians,and migrant Hesbu!J(h.
The most frank confrontation ended by saying, "This situation 
Cassell Lawson, Director of off­
workers, and these have to be dealt came when looking at his ninth will never be alleviated until people "It was never my intention to 
campus Student Activities, wrote a
with through positive action." house. frustrated and upset, he with a backbone are willingto face cause you or the University har­
letter to Montgomery reinforcing
Presently a graduate student in m," Montgomery replied. "I want
asked the landlord, point-blank, if the challenge and try to solve this 
/what Fr. Hesburgh had said.
Philosophy, Montgomery 
she had any objections to renting to critical problem. As a matter of to offer my deepest apologies for 
"From a personal perspective, " 
moved from Miami to blacks. She replied, "You certainly fact, I would dare say that this whatever harm I have caused you 
he wrote, " the very nature of your
South Bend early this summer. He problem is much more important or this University. ·
sound nice over the phone, but I 
proolem and the experience that
looked for a place to live, using the "I can assure you that I will not, 
live along here, and if I let you in than a thousand studies on civil 
you encountered in the South Bend
off-campus housing list compiled at any time in the future, trouble
thenI will havetolet all of them in." rights. How in the world can the 
community, seem to reinforce and
by the University. The people on you or Notre Dame with my
The Housing office and Father University spend $500,000 
further justify the need for a center
this list have signed a contract Robert Augsten allowed Montom­preserving yourcivil rights papers, problems, as I realize that there 
to study Civil Rights."
with the University stating, among and studying civil rights, when are more important matters that
ery to move into Brownson Hall.
other things, that they will not need your attention. Asked how he felt the University 
f'or a while he did not consider there is a very critical situation 
discriminate in "I will, however, give persons could improve the situation of
taking further action on the that exists at Notre Dame 
renting to students. and agencies outside the dh.criminaton, Montgomery said,
situation until he began to hear University's front' door?" 
"One of the first landlords told University my fullest cooperation "If they aren'tgoing to doanything
similar stories of discriminatio Fr. Hesburgh answered this 
me, when I called andtalked to her letter, defending the fact that he in trying to rid South Bend of this more than havethelandlords sign on the telephone, that she had a . He decided to write to Hesburgh, terrible disease-racism." a silly piece of paper that says they
had not written immediately by
place available in her home for feeling that the root of the problem citing his busy schedule. He also Fr. Hesburgh replied with a won't discriminate, and not follow rent," said Montgomery. "She also was in administration ignorance of offered some "personal advice." short letter. "I would like to up on it when discrimination oc· indicated tome that she is con-these (njustices. Copies of the "I would suggest that you inquire acknowledge your most recent curs, then maybe they should get veniently located near the Notre letter were also sent to the Human further before jumping to a con­letter of Aug. 16," he wrote. "This out of the off-campus housing Dme campus. However, when I Relations Council of South Bend, University has long been against 1 business altogether. It would at
clusion, with letters sent off in all 
went to see her,she said that the Mayor Jerry Miller, the NAACP, directions, certainly to the em­racism in any form and will .:on­least be more honest than what room she wanted to rent had and others involved. tinue to be." they're doing now."
barrassment of theperson ac­

Vol. VIII, No.7
the observer 

Student governtnent reorganized 
by Denise Crowley Staff Rt>porter 
Last vear. Student Government reorganized its structure to im­prove efficiency. The main reorganization involved the abolition of the Student Senate and the establishment of a board of ('omissioners. 
The Board of Commissioners has the power to allocate funds, determine the policie!' of Student 
Government.  regulate  all  the  
t>lctions  and  approve  judicial  
appointments.  

The six representatives from theelectiondistricts. along with the Chairman of the Hall Presidents' Council. Frl'rl Baranowski, Student Bodv President. Dennis CH-Manl Etienne. and student Body Vice President. Michael Geisinger, compose the Board of Com­missioners. l<"".:ach member of the Board is also a member of the Student Life Council. H-Man ex­plained that the Board will have the ultimate say in all Student Government policies. 

Rober Kincaid represents the undergraduate off-campus students. Mike Hess is the representative from Stanford , Keenan Zahm, Holy Cros.s, St. Joe· and Moreau. Grace and Flanner are represented by Edward Rahill and Sorin, Walsli, Alumni, Badin and Dillon are represented by Mary Bremer. 
A district 2,comoosedof Farley, Breen-Phillips, Cavana.ugh and St. Ed's will be appointed soon. 
Bob Connolly, the representative from Fishcer, Pangborn. Lyons and Morrissey, hopes that the Board will be a "sounding board" for the student opinion and a means of communication between Student Government and the 
faculty and administration. The first meeting of the Board of 
Commissioners is Thursday at 8:30 in the Student Government offices. The agenda will include a discussion of the student manual revision and some of the goals of the Board. 
The board of Commissioners supervises a wide range of 
executive officers. Jim Roe is Administrative Advisor, newly created cabinet post. Fred Antc­zak is Minister of Student Affairs; Chris Netto, Academic com­missioner: Dave Grimmer, Judicial Coordination; and Bill McLean. Director of the Om­hudsman. Mariclare Molidor is Commissioner of Research and Development, which is being renamed. Bill Borders is researching the drinking age laws. 

Students urged to stay in stands 
by Claurlt> Devaney Staff Rea·pter 

In a letter addressed "To Our Loyal Student Body .. , " Athletic Director Edward Krause and the department of athletics are urging all students to remain in the stands during the· halftime of home football garr.es. 
The Jetter. released in con­junction with the issurance of student football tickets, is an appeal to students toend the half­time practice of swarming onto the field which began with the ND-LSU game of 1970. 
According to the Krause letter th~ halftime swarm has turned from being an inspirational act into "a mob scene." which has had an adverse effect on the field and on the vews of sme alumni towards the students. 
In an interview Assitant Athletic 
Director Colonel John Stephens said that nothing furthzr had been planned on the rna tter. He said that he hoped this kind of an informal appeal to the student would work. Although it was not meant to 

be any kind of warning or show of disfavor, Stephens hoped the students would cooperate. 
Stephens said that a sure way of keeping students off the field would be to ring it with ushers and police. But something like that would not be planned, necessary, or wanted. 
Several reasons were given as to why the letter was written. Stephens stated that increased alumni criticism of student behavior was one reason.The fact that attention was directed away from the band in practically every game was another reason. Probably the most emphasized reason for the letter was that field conditions were worsened by the · great amount of tratfic. 
Director of Stadium Main­tenance Harold Bennir1ghoff took a negative view of the students' actions solely frm the point of view of what it did to the field. 
Roughtly only three months are available for him to get the field into good condition. This is com­paratively very little time to get the field into the kind 
of shape people expect. 
Benninghoff pointed out thatthe more activity there was on the field the harder it was to keep in shape. After all, he said, it's ·mly grass that all those people are walking on. 
The Jetter was not meant be any kind of ultimatum or attack on the student body, but rather an at­tempt to be a a reminder to the students to examine the situation to determine whether their half­time actions have deteriorated 
into something less than  spontan­ 
eous,  inspirational  act  for  the  
football team.  


Notre Damena1neusedillegally? 
by Gary Allietta Staff Reporter Investigation is currently un­
derway into the unauthorized use 

of  the  Notre  Dame  name  and the university. However, the use of monetary returns for permitting  
image  by  a  foreign  car the university name must first be its name to be used in ads. Conklin  
manufacturer  in  a  national  ad­cleared through Conklin. revealed, . Action is bein.g sought  

vertising campaign. Richard Conklin, Director of Information Services for the university, said an ad promoting the Honda Civic has appeared in at least two national magazmes this month. 
Conklin noted that the university name and seal are protected by a court decision but added that the magazine does not use the official school title . 

The ad depicts only a priest in a campus-type setting and the words ·•Notre Dame" along with the names of two other universities. As Conklin pointed out, there are a lot of schools called Notre Dame, making the link between the name and the university hard to establish. 
Paul Foley, Presiden· : the Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc., and a Notre Dame trustee, is conducting the investigation. His intention is first to locate the agency which placed the ad and ask them to discontinue its publication. Later steps are uncertain. 
Acknowledgement, but not 
jennifer's 

SALE 
20% off on FALL KNIT SEPARATES 
11 9W. Colfax 
D:> wnb IJIKl Sruth Bend 

endorsement, of product use in request are rare, he said. advertising is common practice by Notre Dame receives no 
He receives about a dozen such against Honda, he continued, only requests a year, although he to protect the university's image received none from Honda. Cases and to keep the name from in which the name is used without a becoming commercialized. 
Settle down 



to the 
natural one. Busch: 
Especially after the game (or before) 

DONG SIK KIM 
(MASTER INSTRUCTOR, 5th BLACK BELT) TIME: Sept. 14 (Friday at 6 pm) PLACE: ACC (Wrestling Gym, Gate 2) 
\ 
\ 

1. 
How powerful is Kim? 

2. 
How fast is Kim? 

3. 
How profound is Kim? 


Free admission with this ad. 

Thursday, September 13, 1' 73 the observer 
AS LONG AS YOU'RE STUCK IN SOUTH BEND
ND ntagazine stays unchangEd. 
you should have someone take care of 1your immediate insurarce needs namely
promises to probe real issues 
presidency of Father Hesburghby Mike Kelly a.lso won AAC awards. 
Staff Reporter 
In other competition, Notre Dame magazine was on of several Notre Dame magazine, the University publications cited by magazine for ND alumni, plans no the American College Public definite changes this year, but "I Relations Asociation (ACPRA>, in think we're always looking for new which Notre Dame was one of four ways to do thing:;;," said Ron universities out of approximtely Parent, editor and head of the 1500 to be cited as many as four University's Publications Office. time at its national meetings in San 
"We go into every issue wth a Diego;California kind of new outlook," said Parent. Notre Dame magazine has He feels that this helps make the several advantages other other magazmeunique and better than such publications, explains Parent. most of is type. Parent !eels that the First, as pan of a Catholic in­
. larg1amountJf material written by stitution, it can get into issues faculty members also adds to the other cannot apprmwh. magazine's quality, a practice he "Most alumni are interested in is surprised is not used more often the moral problems of the day," elsewhere. "They (other said Parent. magazines) have this incredible Forinstance. the next issue will resource right on their own be on Death. Parent says many campus, and they neverbother to people fear death and avoid tao it." he said. discussing it. 
In competition with other alumni "What we're trying to do.. .is magazilles, 1\otre Dame has done create mnrP rati9n:~l thinking, well in its brief 20 month, 10 issue . ,and more understandmg of the history. This July it as selected at subject,'' he added. . the national convention of the He also says that many alumni' American Alumni C.mm,.il CAAC> magazines enjoy little favor with in Vancouver, British Columbia, as their administrations, but that one of the top ten in the country. Notre DamEis fortunate to have an 
A! the same convention it was administration that takes it presented with the Newsweek seriously. award given by Newsweek and the "I think that what happens to a 
·AAC for "achievement in alumni lot of schools" said Parent, "is that publicaton content relating the they're unaware of hoW important institution to public affairs," The a magazine can be to the school." award was given for its February, "I think a lot of people are 1973 issue, entitled "The American producing magazines that have Christian Family: Is It Worth long outlived any rationale for Saving?" The covers for that issue· producing them," he continued. and the one for June, 1972 on the But Parent hopes thatwon'thappen 
) 
by Ken Bradford Staff Reporter 
Student, faculty, and ad­ministrative use or the · Univer­sity's computer facilities is ex­pected to increase again this year, said R. 'Brian Walsh, director of the Computing Center. 
The use of the computer as a supplemental aid to classroom material is one of the reasons for the expected increase, he said, as a $225,000 grant for computer research to the Department of Economics explores more uses for the computer in the educational process. 
/ ' 
Refert'ing to l.he computer':; possibilities in education, Walsh stated, "Computing is still in its infancy and its greatest impact is yet to be felt." 
Use of the computer may take many forms, he continued. Last year, 99 courses at Notre Dame required 2,824 students to use the computer. , Students used the computer for diagnosing illnesses, analyzing statistics, or playing a scholarly game of Tic-tac-toe, he said. 

The computer, an IBM 370-158, is located in the Computer Center and Mathematics Building and has 63 terminals scattered in various buildingings on campus, including O'Shaughnessy Hall, the Memorial Library, and the Hayes-Healy Building. The computer is used twenty-four hours a day and runs at its capacity for over half that time. ' 
"We don't see too many students here at three o'clock in the mor­ning," Mr. Walsh adds. 
Since computers are expensive and become obsolete a few years after their introduction, Notre to Notre Dame. He says the magazine tries to remain flexible 
.andthat it would like to get more students involved. But he is not surprised there has been little reaction from the students as it is an alumni magazine. Free copies are available, though, to anyone who comes to the office, and Parent says more and more students are coming in. 
1\otre Dame magazine began about a year and a half ago when the publications Insight, "a public; relations 1tool," and Alumnus, a small magazine devoted mainly to alumni news, were merged. Combinging the two was designed to save $25,000 in costs. 
"We wanted to get production costs down," said Parent, "but we also wanted to produce a good magazine." He said that Notre Dame is affected by the present paper shortage, but enough is on hand to last through the school year. 
The reactions fromalumni, other alumni editors, and commercial editors have been good, he says. Parent feels that for the alumni Notre Dame is "an extension of their education here." 
"One of the things I think a lot of <such) institutions have a tendency to do is underestimate the in­
APARTMENT INSURANCE CAR INSURANCE 
I 

at very reasonable rates. Call me for a quote: Jim Dunfee 282-4344 
DUNFEE GREENAN AGENCY 
1756 Mishawaka Avenue South Bend 15 Indiana 



CLASSIFIED ADS 
telligence of the readers," he 
FOR SALE

added. "We sort of feel our wayalong" 
Garrard 5S turntable 1 yr. old. Used only a lew times. Perfect

explains Parent, on the in­
condition Best Offer. Call

novations being planned. 
Larry 233-3945 

"Some of the best things we've done, we do on the spur of the 
Vivitar 135mm telephoto lens. Fits Nikon mounts. S55 with

moment." 
case. Rick 233-3945 
1967 van, Ford Econline. Shag carpeting, naugahide bench, luma dome, good condition.

Computer use expands, 
Phone 232-4335. 
7-inch Sony TV. Excellent condition. Call 6426.

available to everyone 
Vivitar 98-P close ups case, 
filter $175.' 1939 call evenings. 

Dame leases its computer from 
1965 Cevrolet Sedan 6 cyl. stick. 
New paint, new tires. Dependable, economical. 

IBM. Nevertheless, the expense to 
the University remains con­
$495.00 Call 233·1615 after 5:00

siderable and efforts are being 
p.m. 

made to relieve the burden on the 
Cant find textbooks? See

budget by providing computing 
PANDORAS BOOKS 602 N. St.

services to several outside 
Louis at South Bend Ave. We 

organizations. 
have a 3-day special order service on new and used tex­tbooks. New and used books 

To use the computer, a student 
must have a code number, 
bougt sold and traded.

available from the Computing Center with the approval of a 
Need a Car? See John Voll '73 at Gates Chevrolet in South

professor. Computer time is 
Bend tor great buys on new and

compiled and charged to the 
used cars arti trucks. 288·1421. 

department to which that teacher belongs. 
,67 Chevy 6 cyl. stick + 2 snow

Students may learn to operate 
tires. 3265.

the computer by attending one of the seminars held by the computer 
Stereo headphones Koss ESP7 electro static $65.00 Koss PR04AA 40.00 Firm. 291-3839. 

· department or through instruction 
in a wide variety of courses. 
Amana refrigerator· Freezer, 22'. Br.and new, stilf in carton 
WANTED 

HOUSEMATE needed to share turn ished house with two seniors. Excellent location. large living room 2 bedrooms kitchen. Transportation to campus availble. 420 St. Vincent. Call 232-5312. 
Needed : 4 gen ad tix to USC or MICHIGAN state games. Will pay well call 6727. 
3 or 5 speed bike . Call 8301 or see Brent at 20 Pangborn. 
Roommate needed NO Apts. 832 NO Ave. Apt 2·A Call 233­1302. 
Wnt experienced portrait artist to do portrait sketches on premises. Phone Book Shack 256-0111. 
Need 4 Northwestern tix desperately. Together if possible. Call 7835 now. 
Need fourth man for NO APts. 232-8671 
Need 4 GA tix to Northwestern game. Phone Art 1026. 
Loy Loyal alumnus needs 4 general admission North western tix; call Maria 1316 
Need 1 GA ticket to Nor­thwestern Game . Call Joe LATE at 3418. 
Desperately need 2 S. Cal. tix. Will pay. Call Joe 3274. 
N~eded: 4 GA tix to any home ga;ne except Air Force. Call 
John 282-1568. 
NOTICES. 

Will person who walked off with Olympia box marked with 
name 11Montenegro"at storage 
auction please call Jim at 1021. Reward offered tor return of its contents No questions asked 
Will do typing Themes manuscripts, letters. Cllll: 233-6909. 
Need someone willing to ex· change rooms. Call Matt McKool, Rm 239 Lyons, 7921. 
ARTISTIC STUDENTS$25 prize for best sketch. Inquire at Nickies. 
Need info on girls bike, 3-speed black...raleigh taken from Holy Cross N D basement this summer. Operation iden· tification NO. MN02706 GR02687. Reward. Ph.one 
Judy 4970 
Need money fasr? Morrissey Loan Fund is now open . Borrow up to $150.00 Monday thru Friday 11.15-12:15 
Basement of LaFortune. 
PERSONAL 
Dear Daniel (one of our iiesr customers), Happy 20th birthday Love, Madame Fifi+ her Girls 
P.S. Spto would also like to 
thank you tor your generous patronage. 
Hey Big Mama 
The nights are getting cold all over. Love , the Professor 
SENIOR CLASS TRIP 
OPEN TO ALL ND-SMC STUDENTS 
3 DAYS 



In fabulous MIAMI BEACHI 
for NO-Miami football game ONLY $160 


NOV. 29--DEC. 2 
Non refundable deposit due SEPT. 28 
deposits colleded at ND travel bureau QUESTIONS? CALL JERRY 232-3876 
Won on TV show, sell cheaply. Let's haggle Dennis 259-7533. 
Encyclopedia International, won on TV. Dennis 259-7533. 
Guitar for sale, excellent condition, Must see, call 1682 
FOR RENT 
3 Bedroom furnished house 2 car garage utilities linens kitchenware furnished 5 minutes from campus. 233·1374 233-3403. 
1or 3room apt. 10min. drive to N D Phone 288·9533 I rom 7-9 am and 6-8 pm. 
6 bedroom house completely furnished close to ND. Call 234­
9364. 
4 students wanted to share house just off S. Michigan St. All ulilitespaid· reasonabie 291­
5869. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost: Small gold cross on chain with chip diamond. Sentimental value. Lost week ago. Contact Pat at7861 or Kell i at 4556 
RIDES WANTED 
Ride to Wisconsin 14th or 15th Share cost. Joe 3443 
Ride needed to DETROIT or GROSSE POINT this Friday. Please call Chris at 6586. 

8 
the observer 



JRfense displays speed. quiclm.ess 
l 
!
I) 
•) , I 
•) '.) 
i' 
Perhaps the most encouraging Pete Demmerle, who has development concerning Notre displayed incredible pass catching Dame football has, in recent weeks ability this fall, has edged out been the performance of the Willie Townsend for the starting 
defense. While in the past the Irish wide receiver post, Pete weighs in have been known for the awesome at 194 to Willie's 196. size, this season's unit presents a In the offensive backfield, different situation -·mainly speed Wayne Bullock and Eric Penick and quickness. are a pound apart at 215 and 214, 
When freshman Ross Browner and although Penick limped off the was promoted to first team the field with a pulled hanstring on Irish "front four" dropped to an Tuesday. ht> was back at full average weight of 240 pounds. strerrth for yesterday's workout. Were it not for tackles Steve Art Best weighs 202 and is Niehaus (6-5, 270) and Kevin playing in the first team backfield Fanning (6-6, 255) the average along with quarterback Tom would be even lower since Browner Clements who is a slim 188. Cliff tips the scales at 221 pounds and Brown, Clements' backnp is at 195. end Jim Stock is a mere flyweight 
Lightest of the backs counted on 
at 211. 
to see action this fall is GaryBut what this year's line may Diminick at 168, while AI Samuel lrck in size they certainly make up is 177. Ron Goodman, who has hr in speed and quickness in made tremendous strides toward a rdting to the passer . In the last starting backfield position weighs
t,vo gametype scrimmages, 
187 while freshman AI Hunter is a Browner, Niehaus and backup end quick (9.3 in the 100 yard dash) 190. 
freshman Willie Fry were con­stantlv in the offensive backfield ND harriers meetharassing Frank Allocco and the rest of the second team "0". If 
Illinois State
anything has been missing from the defensive unit of a year ago it Notre Dame's 1973-74 season of was just that -ability to put varsity competition will open 
pressure on the passer. The ad­Saturday when the cross country dition of Fry and Browner will 
team faces the squad from Illinois certainly alleviate that problem; 
State University in Normal, Ill. and with Niehaus, Stock and 
Several experienced lettermen Fanning all possessing above 
and a talented freshman will average speed, a quarterback the provide the nucleus for a poten­likes of USC's Pat Haden, for 
tially strong Irish squald. Captain instance, may have a few more Marty Hill will attempt to attain bumps and bruises when he's 
his winning stride of last fall when finished. 
he earned a position in the NCAA The linebacking corps seems to 
Cross Country Finals. follow suit. Sherm Smith weighs in 
The Indianapolis senior will be at 210 pounds while Drew Mahalic, 
followed by two junior runners, Mike Gahagan, <Madison, Wis.)
Gary Potempa, Greg Collins and and Mike Housley <Toronto).
Jim Webb are all around 225. Although once again this is not a Gahagan and Housley were 
frequent finishers for Coach Don
"small" group, coach George 
Faley's track program and theyKelly will have a little more will be expected to win manyquickness than last year points in the fall campaign.
Of the backs, Luther Bradley at Freshman Jim Reinhart, South192 is the biggest and Mike Dakota High School Athlete of theTownsend at 180 the lightest. 
Year, will be counted on heavily toReggie Barnett and Tim Rudnick be among the top ten finishers.
both are 185. Mike Parker, now the Coach Faley has slated a tough"fifth" defensive is lighter than schedule for the harriers includingBradley and a tough hitter, hut three home dual meets and theBradley at 6-3 is a full four inches Notre Dame Invitational, thetaller than Parker and now seems nation's largest cross countryto have firmly entrenched himself 
meet.
in the starting strong safety 
"We will use this meet as anposition. 
indicator of the success of theHeaviest of the offensive players conditioning program and whereis Steve Neece at 253, while Steve we stand as a team," assessesSylvester 244, Dave Casper 242, Faley. The Irish will return toGerard DiNardo 241, Dan Morrin competition the following Friday~'10 and Mark Brenneman 231 for <September 15l with a 3:00 p.m.
an average of 242 for the six home meet against the Nor­thwestern Wildcats.

OC football meet 
All off-campus students in­Cheer leaders terested in playing interhall football should attend a meeting slate tryoutsthis Thursday 13, Sept., 1973 at 7:30 in the LaFortune Student Lounge. 
Girls interested in trying out for 
It is imperative that those in­the '73 -'74 hockey cheerleading terested act immediately due to squad are asked to contact the end of registration being this Rethann McGregor at 6777. Friday. Any questions contact Ed Figure skating experience is Klunk at 232)1103. required. 

Booters open with Hoosiers 
by Hal Munger he souno. Anchoring this defense will be Nick Grosch, a veteran When the Notre Dame soccer goalie. club takes the field for the first 
Offense should be more ex­time this Friday they will be trying 
a Indiana perienced this year, hopefullyto defeat strong resulting in higher scoring by theUniversity team while stretchiQg Irish kickers. The forward linetheir own eight game win streak looks promising and many of themounted last season. The ND backs are returnees. Little Stevesoccer squad plays an eleven game Malpica, last year's highest scorerschedule. the opener being one of bolsters the offense, and Mikeits roughest. Indiana, who raised Fitzgerald is back to captain thesoccer to varsity status this year is squad and is attempting thepicked to finish near to top in the conversion from forward tonational polls. Purdue, Goshen, fullback. One of the steadiestand Wabash are among the other players is sophomore Pattough competitors on the schedule. 
Flood, who. along with Bob Rolph,Between fifty and sixty mem­is said to have good potential.
bers make up this year's club. 
Coach Arno Zoske is pleased with The president of the club, is Bob the turnout and says he has some Connally, another promising "very tough players with lots of player. raw talent" He is confident this 
The season starts early for theunpolished ability will be refined Domers but with the nucleus of as the season progresses and the quick, agile, veterans, the Irish team starts functioning as a should field a fine team again thiscohesive unit 
year.
To be successful, a soccer club must be built on stingy defense. Indiana and Notre Dame face Although there are still some holes each other at 4:00 Friday on the to fill. the Notre Dame "D" should field behind Stepan Center. 
"It's a game of inches," they say, with a frequency 
that's sometimes maddening. 
Never mind that the "game" is football in one in­stance, hockey in a second, and basketball in a third. l' s all thr same to sport's cliche artists, whether in Boston, Sault Ste. Marie, or at Notre Dame, and to them every game is a "game of inches." 
The funny thing is, they're right when they say it 
For during the past eight years, Notre Dame fans have learned just how great a distance an inch can be. The last Irish team to win a National Cham­pionship was the 1966 football squad, a team which went 9-0-1, and drubbed Southern Cal. 51-0, in the last game of its season. 
Since then, the cupboard has been bare, but were it not for a few inches here and there,Notre Dame might well have been the nation's dominant power in college athletics during the past decade. 
An inch either way. and some of the major sports events of the past few years, instead of ending up as Irish setbacks, may have looked like this: 
SOUTH BEND, Ind., Ocotber 18, 1969: Notre Dame's Fighting Irish, a young football team with a reed-thin quarterback and a chunky, heavy set place­ki<'ker, today stunned the Trojans of Southern California, 17-14, in one of the major upsets of the current college football season. 
The Irish began their fame-winning surge with just over two minutes remaining in the fourth period, when quarterback Joe Theismann started his team on a 60-yard drive. Theismann seemed destined for the hero's laurels himself when, on a third-and-four, he scrambled from the Trojan 30 all the way to th 14­yard line. Bu a clipping penalty returned the ball to the USCV 40, and the Irish, two plays later, lined up for a 48-yard field goal try. 
Placekicker Scott Hempel made good on his at­tempt, only barely. Hempel's 48-yard fungo shot fell precisely on the crossbar of Notre Stadium's north goalposts, and then caromed through the uprights for the winning points. 
"I didn't think it was going to make it," said llempd. "I thought it was going to hit an air pocket, or something. An inch shorter, and I'm sure it would have bounced back onto the field." 
llempe\'s kick did hit the crossbar, but it was just a bit short. The ball bounced but it bounced back onto thP rield, and thetrishhad to settle for a 14-14 tie with the nation's No. 3 team. 
DALLAS, Tex., Jan. 1, 1970: Notre Dame today crushed the Texas' Longhorn's hopes for a national championship and ended the 'Horns' 20-game win­ning string as well, by engineering shocking 17-14 upset in the annual Cotton Bowl Classic. 
The Irish took an early 10-0 lead in the game, which was dominated by the play of both defensive teams, but the Texas Wishbone scored one touchdown before the half and earned another in the third period to go in front, 14-10. 
With 6:52left to play, though, Irish quarterback Joe Theismann scrambled out of the pocket and gunned a 24-yard touchdown pass to flanker Jim Yoder, and Notre Dame was back on top, 17-14. 
But Texas, on a last-minute drive, came within inches of reversing the decision. Quarterback James Street drove the 'Horns' to a fourth-and-three at the Irish six, but this fourth down pass to Cotton Speyer was deflected by corner back Clarence Ellis, and the Irish took over and ran out the clock. 


The pass, of course, was not broken up. Ellis stopped Speyer at the three, but Texas had a first down, and moments later Bill Dale scored the game-winning touchdown. 
SOUTH BEND, Ind., March 10, 1973: Football, 
traditionally, has been the game at the University of 
Notre Dame. But tonight at Notre Dame's Athletic 
and Convocation center, a new game assumed some 
of the glory that had once beenfootball'salone. 
Notre Dame's polished, experienced ice hockey 
team complt>ted Its rise to national prominence this 
cold, dreary evening by topping the nation's top­
ranked team, the Wisconsin Badgers, 4-3 in the 
second game of a two-game set. 
The two teams battled to a 4-4 tie in Friday night's clash. and were deadlocked at three with 2:00 left in the final period of Saturday's encounter, when senior center Paul Regan flipped a high backhand shot past Badger goalie Dick Perkins. 
Stellar goaltending by Mark Kronholm made the Irishgoal stand up during the final seconds, but Irish fans suffered several tense moments just before the game ended, when center John Noble began tussling with a Badger player. Officials separated the two before anything could develop, but Noble came within inches of drawing a critical penalty. 
"Noble pushed at him with his stick," said the WCHA official who separated the two. "He didn't hit him, but he came close...Another inch, and I'd have had to call him for cross-checking." 
Cross-checking is exactly what Noble was called for, with just minutes remaining ina 3-3 hockey game. 
Wisconsin's Dave Pay, moments late•·. scored on a power play and the Badgers won, 4-3,and aci\'IIAQeect to the NCAA playoffs. 
NEW YORK, NY, March 25, 1973: Who'd have thought it possible'~That a basketball team which had lost six of its first seven games could come far enough back to win the prestigious National In­vitational Tournament'> 
No one would have given a four-leaf clover,much less a shamrock for Notre Dame's chances in January, but tod~y, in Madison Garden, the Irish completed their stunning comeback by posting a 91-90 overtime victory over Virginia Tech in the finals of the NIT. 
The Irish led throughout the overtime period, but Tech's Bobby Stevens came oh-so-close to givin~ the titleto the equally unheralded Gobblers when hts 15­footer at the buzzer skittered around the rim and then fell off. 
"The shot felt good when I let it go," said Stevens. I 
thought surL it was in. Another inch to this side, and 
maybe I would have had it." 
Ste,·ens, the smallest player on the rloor in last 
year's thrilling title game, knew what he was doing 
wht>n he fired his rinal shot. It swished, and gave 
Virginia Tech a 92-91 victory over the Irish. 
During the '73-'74 school year, Notre Dame will field at least three teams capable of competing for national ranking and prestige. And each of those clubs, on paper, is talented enough to contend for a ~ But winning such a title will demand a highly successful season, and coming close to such a season won't be quitegood8M4111tJh. 
Because whoever said it was right : "It's a game of inches." And this year, perhaps the inches will be on Notre Dame's side of the ledger. 
~' 
IL__.__~ 





