
~~-----~ --~­
On The Inside 
Search for Boston Strangler's killer ... page 7 
Off-campus info ... page 3 

serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VIII, No. 51 Wednesday, November 28, 1973 
Dellinger, Hayden speak 
Stress individual's role in government 
by Fred Graver Hayden then went on to talk of the media's tendency from the cynical idea that the American Government Staff Reporter to write-off the movement as "dead or dying". He said has that we will not care what we do in Southeast Asia that this is a climactic, crucial period for the as long as we do not have men dying there. They 
Speaking to a full crowd in the LaFortune ballroom movement because if we cannot get truth from them believe that we only care for our own skins." last night, David Dellinger and Tom Hayden, former now, they will be abple to "pull the wool over our eyes "For every Vietnam," he continued, "there has got members of the Chicago Eight, stressed the role of the from now on." to be a Watergate. The blindness brought home by the individual today in bringing about the changes needed Dellinger_expressed concern that the basic concepts expansion of Watergate tactics are just a reflection of in our system of government. of the Declaration of Independence, especially those the way that the White House found a solution to their 
In his speech, Tom Hayden said, "The only thing pertaining to trial by jury, were being "whittled away problems by keeping the facts from the people." 
standing between us and a preat of the 1950's is the as humans become objects, and not people." He spoke He predicted that within a year, a new crisis would American people and their raised consciousness of extensively on the need for Judicial Reform, especially develop in the form of the President renewing our full political conditions." in regard to what he referred to as our "class system of militlary involvement in Vietnam. "And then he will 
justice." go on television," Hayden said, "and say that this isDellinger also emphasized this point when he said, necessary because demonstrators and newspapers"People are relying on themselves less and less. We "This really issues from our attempts to be fair," he would not let the great peace that was won therehave exryerts deciding everything for us. In the process proceed as it should."
said. "But what it ultimately does is produce inequality 
of ~:eforming our society, we have to strike at the 
and a form of selective prosecution because we end up
heart; we have to develop a democracy where human 
supporting the middle-class status quo." Hayden proceeded to emphasize the situation inequality becomes a reality; and we ~o not have to r~ly Using this as a jumping-off point to discuss Vietnam by outlining four facts about our presenton the opinion of experts, who are switched around hke involvement there. He said that the United States, by
Watergate, Dellinger commented on the need "not to
brand x and brand y. We must have faith in our­order of the President, is proposing to send the South 
impeach a man, but to impeach a system." When we
selves." 
get into relying on the clubs in Washington, we're only Vietnamese Government 475 million dollars in military Hayden told of how he had been thinking of erecting a aid, at least 5 times more than is being sent anywhere 
going to end up getting deals like the one we saw bet­
monument to the unknown demonstrator in order to else.
ween Ervin, Baker, and Nixon on allowing Stennis to
commemorate the suffering and unseen sacrifice of He continued by describing the military situation inapprove the tape transcript." .
many political activists. He .finally found that Dellinger said that impeaching the Prestdent may Vietnam. "They have the third largest Air Force in the demonstrator while listening to John Dean's ultimately be a "cop-out." He emphasized the need for world, the fourth largest army payroll, the highestWatergate testimmony. 
proportion of people living in refugee camps, and the
the American people to probe deeply and learn about 
world's highest percentage of political prisoners." 
all the facets of the system. "Only then," he said, "will 
"Dean told how the President one day was looking we continue to develop our involvement in a system of "All of this in a land which has supposedly won itsout the Oval Office window," Hayden related, "when freedom," Hayden said.
true justice." He pointed out that the investigations
he spotted one lone protester carrying a sign against 
should not leave off at Watergate, but attempt to find
our involvement in Cambodia. He felt threatened, and the truth about the Cambodian invasion, Chile, and the Dellinger accused the President of not honoring thecalled in Dean, who at that time was the President's 
ITT affair. peace treaty. "We are still holding 300,000 politicalChief Counsel. 
prisoners in that country," he said.
"They came to two alternatives," Hayden continued. 
Dellinger and Hayden both emphasized the necessity "Either they would call the police and have this man He stressed the importance of gaining proper per­for the peace movement to continue. "We never will goarrested, or they could send out White House Thugs to spective on Watergate, in the light of the direct White back to the single focus of the sixties," Dellinger
beat him up. They arrested him." House involvement in Indochina, and with the corrupt stated, "but now we can work as ·fragments. con­Thieu regime. 
tributing to the whole. We should all concentrate onHe concluded by adding, "But they overlooked the Tom Hayden talked at length about the need to in­one area, but never forget that we are a part of themost effective alternative of all. They could have just form the An1erican public about our continuing in­whole movement."
left him . there until he tired out and went home, volvement in South Vietnam. "This is a total 
probably never to return again." American responsibility," he claimed "which derives (picture on page 5) (continued on page 5) 
Informal session 
Macheca, Lally discuss student concerns 
by David Newman 
most outside employees are determines whether the incident turnout, Macheca felt "many
Staff Reporter life", and thus the university must 
assigned here permanently and was disruptive. people are not interested in being 
discourage use of artificial meansDean of Students John Macheca thus get to know hall staffs. But he "It's a lot of work on our part here". The questioner felt to nullify the significant pressures 
J
and Assistant Dean Fr. Terry promised to check on any similar when we investigate a legitimate students have no voice in deter­on students. Fr. Lally discussed
Lally met informally with about occurences "at the next op­complaint," said Lally, "and if it is mmmg policies or making gatherings, coeducationa, and
fifty students Tuesday night in portunity." legitimate we must decide what is suggestions, but Macheca said, other ways to combat the problem, 
j
Stanford-Keenan chapel and best for the student.''
Dean Macheca explained that "There has been much change 
and noted, "we have missed somecovered areas of student concern 
the university depends on the Macheca commented, "Most ND here in student involvement", and 
point of the education prccess by
besides discipline. Student Life Council and the Ad­students are very good about thought that it began about 1962. 
not dealing directly withThey noted their primary duty as ministration to decide rules and admitting mistakes and guilt," as He pointed out the rules are pressures."
changing the traditional role of the regulations. Fr. Lally described He went on to say the hall staffs revised every year. 
Macheca would not comment on
office, while keeping the custom of are very important in the process, 
the procedure after receiving a Both Macheca and Lally are 
the Sorin party case in which three "education beyond the 
complaint. "First, we talk to and are given a chance to make concerned about the use of alcohol
classroom", in the context of a "input" before the decision is and other drugs. Macheca said, students were denied attendance to 
authority figures, rectors and athletic events because the appeal residential community. Macheca 

r.a.'s., then call in the party in­made. "Four years here are not a 
begins December 5. He noted, "Ifelt discpline was important in the 
volved". Then Dean Macheca When asked about the light moratorium, but a preparatiQ.n for 
would love too", but did not feel itsense of living under fair.
"parameters". They also noted Fr. Lally felt social functions"broadening the scope and "should take place in residences,'' horizons" by using "alternatives but the whole residence conceptand new ways of dealing with would have to change to allow
:students~ 
large gatherings. "We mustThey defended the much provide facilities", he said. "Wecriticized secrecy in student mat­must be realistic about the use ofters by describing how official alcohol at functions. Students aresilence has benefited the university unaware that alcohol is used onand the parties involved, as college campuses improperly."
disciplinary actions do not go on Both felt serious problems existed student records, and the university and that the drug problems tookcould be seriously hurt being a second place. Macheca noted that party to actions which could in the five years the Counselingwarrant outside prosecution. 
and Psychological ProblemTwo Keenan residents expressed 
concern over the entry of non­Centers have existed, "not one student has come there with an
residents into rooms, noting a 
alcohol problem", and pointed torecent case in which an Indiana 
Bell Service man was admitted by the two recent cardiac arrests on campus and five o.d. 's in South
a maid to remove a piece of non­
Bend from alcohol.
Western Electric equipment from 
a Centrex telephone. Macheca In closing, Lally said, "We must said that the employee had been inform the community that Notre cleared by Rector Fr. Griffin, but Dame has changed, that ways of 
had "missed contact". The disciplining students have changed. We are dealing with
students felt the maid had "not . , really checked the identify of the political realities. Frankly, it's a · repairman," and Macheca noted damn tough job sometimes." 
L________________________________________________ ---

. ' Wednesday, November 28, l9.7J '.
the observer 
warld briefs 
.. ATHENS <UPI>-The new government 
Tuesday began to release persons arrested in the 
rebellion against ousted President Goerge 
Papadopoulos' regime eight days before a 
military coup overthrew it. 
The move was seen as a conciliatory gesture 
toward students by the two-day-old military­
backed government. 

In Athens, where the government last week 
said 302 persons were being held in connection 
with the rebellion which began at the Athens 
Polytechnic school, authorities began releasing 
the prisoners in small grouos. 
WASHINGTON <UPI>-President Nixon will provide "complete information" on his personal finances probably this week but has not decided if he will make his actual income tax returns public, Deputy Press Secretary· Gerald L. Warren said Tuesday. 
Warren said the President has not determined "in what form or forum" he will make the financial disclosures, but that ehw White House has been at work compiling information for release. 
Nixon admitted in a recent news conference that he paid only "nominal" taxes in 1970 and 1971 because he deducted $500,000 for volumes of £ice-presidential papers he turned over to the National Archives. 
WASHINGTON <UPI>-The House voted 311­88 Tuesday to place the country on daylight saving time year-round until the end of April, 1975, in order to conserve energy. 
If the measure is approved by the Senate and 
signed into law by President Nixon, almost 
evoeryone in the country would have to turn their 
clocks ahead one hour beginning at 2 a.m. on the 
first Sunday that falls 15 days after the law is 
enacted. 

WASHINGTON <UPI)-The Defense andl Interior Departments said Tuesday they ordered 22 major U.S. oil companies 11 days ago to divert 826 million gallons of fuel from civilian users to meet "bare minimum essential" military needs to the end of the year. 
an campus l:aday 
12: 15 p.m.--seminar, "the response of eucaryotic cells and their viruses to exocellular nucleic acids," dr. robert j. erickson, room 102, lobund lab. 
12:15 p.m.--chemistry 627 seminar, "the role of phosphoryldihydropolisoprenol in the syn­thesis of mammalian glycoproteins," prof. edward c. heath, conference room, radiation lab. 
1:15 and 2:20 p.m.--film, martin luther king, "the man and the march," audio-visual center of the cce, also at 7:30, black cultural arts center, Iafortune. 
2:00 p.m.-lecture, "modular color system," russell woody, room 127, o'shaughnessey hall. 
3:30 p.m.--lecture, "a new approach to the analysis of mechanical hysteresis," dr. jeffrey 
t. tong, room 303, engineering bldg. 
4:30 p.m.--lecture, "synthesis and decomposition of cyclic azo-compounds," dr. terry I. kruger, room 123, nsh. 
6:30 p.m.--meeting, sailing club, room 204, engineering bldg. 
7:30 p.m.--film, "Memories of un­derdevelopment," moreau seminary. 
8:00 
p.m.--lecture, "apartheid, protest and american involvement," prof. peter walsh, library lounge. 

8:00 
and 10:00 p.m.--movie, "the baby maker," eng. aud. $1.00. 


8: 15 p.m.--concert, notre dame glee club in sacred heart church, free. 
FOR GREAT BUYS TRY 

*MAC'S RECORD RACK* 
2925 Mishawaka Ave. 
next to River Park Theater 
* lp's *needles *special *record 
orders cleaning equipment
*tapes 
If we don't have it, we 'II get it 
' . 4 .. '' '·· ".'~.',',', 1 ,~\\l•~\. ·,.' 
.lust Arrived! ·' N.-\lv.<.W·h:o·:/:three Dog Night
•. 
:0 
I 
The Observer is published dally during the college seml!lter except vacations by the stuaents of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for sa per 
HPC leads crusade 
against early return 
byJimEder Staff Reporter 
The Hall Presidents Council last night decided to invite each of the members of the Academic Council to its meeting next Tuesday to hear grievances about the university's new academic calendar. 
John Mazza, a student member of the Academic Council, advised the hall presidents not to give up hopes for achieving an alternative to the proposed calendar. "Much can still be done," he said. "In light of the fact that 89 per cent of the 3,000 students polled disap­proved of the calendar, Fr. Burt­chaell's rather vague arguments supporting it are not very con­vincing. There is still an op­portunity for alternatives." 
HPC Chairman Pat McLaughlin urged the presidents to encourage all students interested in the calendar to attend the special meeting of the Student Life Council scheduled for 4:30 p.m. this Thursday at the Center for Con­tinuing Education. Provost James 
T. Burtchaell will be present to listen to student grievances and 

suggestions  and  to  answer  any  
questions  regarding  the  new  
calendar.  

Phil Byrnes, president of Alumni, who first proposed that the HPC invite the members of the Academic Council to its meeting next week, pointed out that "there are inconsistencies in Burtchaell 's logic and reasoning behind the new calendar that should be questioned." 
In other business before the HPC last night, Assistant Vice President for Business Mfairs, Brother Kieran Ryan explained the new safety regulations prohibiting the use of natural evergreen trees and-or branches in any residence or other interior area of the university. 

"This regulation is a result of the federal Occupational Safety and Health Act which makes every employer responsible for providing safe and healthful conditions for his employees," he said. "Students as well as all those people employed by the university are protected by this law." 
Ryan further explained that "before this legislation was passed, employers were only subject to private suits and thus, only responsible after the fact. Now, every employer, including the university, is subject to penalties enforced by the govern­ment before the fact." 
After Ryan urged the hall presidents to enforce this regulation strictly with no ex­ceptions, the HPC unanimously decided to join the SLC in sup-
semester CS14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame,
porting the ban on indoor use of 
Indiana 46556. Second class 
postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind.
evergreen Christmas or­
46556.
namentation. 


A word about prices .... 
Due to increased costs from my beer wholesalers, I have been f.orced to raise the price of beer. The other student bars will also be raising their prices. Please understand that the only reason for this action is a considerable increase in cost. THE Ll BRARY will continue to offer the best possible deals and service. 
Rick Kanser 
For Example... 

Case of Stroh's $5.25 
Fri. and Sat. in the Carry-Out 
Urban Studies Evening 
ednesday, November 28 l :OOpm thru 5:00pm 
Urban Studies Office ­Rockne Memorial 
1. Appointments for U. S. Majors 
O'Shaughnessy -Room 103 ­
6:30 Wed. 
1. 
Information on Workstudy 

2. 
U.S. Double Major & Certificate 


KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS 
Present 

Alfred Hitchcock's 


FRENZY 
Thurs-Fri Nov 29-30 Showings: 6,8, 10,12 Admission s1.00 
Proceeds Go To CORVILLA 



Wednesday, November 28, 1973 the observer 
Letters sent to congressmen 
Burrell receives replies on impeachment 
by Ken Bradford Staff Reporter 

Fr. David Burrell, chairman of the Notre Dame Theology Department, has received letters from two Congressmen responding to his letters calling for the im­peachment of the President. 
Fr. Burrell's letter stated, "It has become clear that the preservation of what integrity we have as a people and Congress has as an arm of that people demand precisely that we dispense with Richard Nixon for the sake of the presidency." 
The letter was a reaction to the "unconscionable actions" of Oc-
Course offered for students helping "With retarded children 
by Mellissa A. Byrne Staff Reporter 

The Department of Psychology will re-offP.r a course next semesterwhich allows students to earn academic credit for a com­bination of volunteer and classroom experience. 
The three credit hour course will require students to do volunteer work with a retarded child at the Developmental Disabilities Center on the corner of Angela and Notre Dame Avenue. 
This non-major course, Behavior Change and the Retarded, will require one hour of classwork and four hours of supervised volunteer work per week. 
"Many students are interested in doing volunteer work for the un­derprivileged groups," said Eric Ward, program director at the Developmental Disabilities Center and ND graduate student in 
Inform residence office before moving off-campus 
by Jeanne Murphy Staff Reporter 

Are you thinking about moving off-campus in January? 
Father John M. Mulcahy, Director of Student Residence, has asked all students intending to move off-campus next semester to inform the residence office of such a move before December 15. If notification is not given before this dat, the student will lose his $50 deposit fee and will be billed for second semester room and board. 
Mulcahy mentioned that in the past, students moved off-campus in January without notifying the residence office and ruined chances for other students to get a room in the dorms. Students 
All Observer staff members wishing ·to hold an intern position for the Spring Semester should contact Jerry Lutkus immediately. 
\ • If . '. 
+ •••••• , •••• '. t ..................... . ' •••••• I. I I It I IS I' 4 t '> 4o t. t l I • •' t 4' I • • • • 
tober 20, when President Nixon fired Special Prosecutor Archibald Cox and Deputy Attorney General William Ruckleshaus, as well as forcing the resignation of Attorney General Elliot Richardson. 
Fr. Burrell referred to falsehoods perpetrated by Nixon's spokesmen and stated, "It seems that only such types are left to the President, and it is clear that left to them or to himself he constitutes a menace to this nation." 
Fr. Robert Drinan, Represen­tative from Massachusetts and a member of the House Judiciary Committee, responded to Fr. Burrell's letter with an appeal to Notre Dame students. 
Fr. Drinan stated, "I trust that all of the students at the University 
psychology. "This class offers them an opportunity tocombine academic and personal goals." 
Ward indicated the class material is quite challenging. Class topics include a history of attitudes toward the retarded; causes and types of retardation; behavior modification and training of the retarded; teaching methods in the area of self-help and legal rights for the retarded. 
Other classes will be given by persons from the University and local community with experience in mental retardation. Assigned readings related to the training methods will be availabe in the ND Bookstore. 
Sixteen Notre Dame students are 
now completing the course. Many 
of these students became in­
terested in the class through work 
with the student volunteer group, 
Manasa. 

"I got involved in Manasa last 
year and taking the course was a 
should notify the Housing Office and not just the hall rector or assistant rector. 
Up to this date there have been twelve to fourteen requests to move off-campus in January while there have been twenty-eight requests to move on-campus. 
Freshmen are not allowed to mov~ off-can~p~s unless they have 
s~ec1al pernHssion. Women at ND don't have enough hours in a week to will not be allowed to m.ove off this spend with them," said Kevin Jan~a~~, but there IS a good Sherin, a senior pre-med major. po~sibihty that they may be able This course is being re-offered to to bveoff-campus next September, all interested undergraduates for Mulcahy stated. the spring semester through the 
Those stu~ents wishing to move Psychology Department. It will be off-c~mpus 1~ J.anuary must a~so listed during pre-registration as receive pernllSSIOn from the Office Psy 357D-Behavior Change and the of Dean of Students as stated in the Retarded 3TT5-Whitman. Student Manual. a. 
of Notre Dame are planning creative ways in which to manifest their convictions pro or con on the impeachment resolution." 
"If they sit on the sidelines during this one we will have to invent a new word for the condition and for the generation that is in­finitely beyond alienation," Fr. Drinan added. 
Indiana Representative John Brademas replied with a letter stating: "President Nixon's ac­tions recently have in my view, precipitated a Constitutional crisis of almost unparalleled severeity in the history of this country." 
Brademas' letter explained two House Resolutions Brademas has co-sponsored dealing with the issues covered by Fr. Burrell's 
natural consequence of it," said Clint Gibler, an ND electrical engineering major and current Manasa chairman. 
Several students took the course because it offered them an op­portunity to get practical ex­perience in the field of psychology. "I wanted more than theory," said Robert Farrell, a junior psychology major. "In the course we use behavior modification techniques." 
Lee Handwerker, another psychology major, also wanted 
experience in working with retarded children. "I work with normal children from good backgrounds in a summer camp," said Handwerker. "I wanted to see what the transition would be like from working with normal children to working with retarded children." 
Alex alabrese, ND junior and psychology major, said the class offered training that enabled him to become a more effective volunteer. 
The students' volunteer work is supervised by Psychology Department faculty and Center staff. This volunteer work has been very successful in several cases. Two students joined staff members to develop a training method to teach one child to walk. 
Another child who threw toys away was trained to play with them correctly. Other children are being taught to swim in the Ceo­ter's pool, dress themselves, and eat correctly. 
"The big problem is you just letter. 

One resolution calling for the Judiciary Committee to in­vestigate the official conduct of the President was adopted last week and is expected to be enacted soon, according to a Brademas spokesman. 
"Please be assured that in the coming months, I will have as my first priority Congressional action to re-establish the rule of law in our land for all citizens, including high public officials," Brademas' letter concluded. 

MEMOREX 90 BUYOtE ""'"""""­
Buy one­
GET ONE FREE!


Get one Free! 
Chromium dioxide 
A I9.Jt9 VALVE Fl1~ 

. -_rt:l··.-.;: . .
. ''39
--. . li 
-::.\.: ~ I. \. •


·~f)~ 
y MEMOREX RecordingTape
~eproduction so true it can shatter glass. 

NOW AVAILABLE AT THE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 


TONIGHT 

~re-celebrate N.D.'s first perfect season since 1949! Beat Miami! 
*Live Music *No Cover Charge * 7 & 7's Only 50' 
All Night 



'\\t\JB 
.. , . 
l''r. Burrell, in response to the two letters, clarified that "when people say 'Impeach the President', they could mean they feel him to be guilty, but the thrust is to initiate impeachment proceedings." 
"Certainly one must agree with George McGovern, who did not need to argue the point: if anyone who has done or allowed to be done the sorts of things Nixon has is not subject to impeachment proceedings, who is?" Fr. Burrell said. 

THE OBSERVER 
AN <. INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Art Ferranti Executive Editor 
Lee Gentine Business Manager 

Jerry Lutkus Editor--in-Chief  Dan Barrett Executive Editor  
NEWS:  283-1715  
EDITORIALS:  283-8661  John Kloos  
BUSINESS:  ?113-7471  Advertislng M.anager  ,  

Wednesday, November 28, 1973 

The CCE Rally 
At 4:30 tomorrow, the SLC will meet in a very important meeting. Fr. James Burtchaell will meet with the SLC and all interested students to discuss the new academic calendar. Student response to this invitation hopefully will be over­whelming. If it is, perhaps it can change the Provost's mind. 
Burtchaell has downplayed the results of a survey taken by the Hall President's Council saying that this kind of response is merely manufactured by the an­nouncement of a new calendar. 
Hopefully, a massive outpouring of in­terested students can convince the Provost that the results were not merely the result of disgust produced by the calendar's release, but actual true opinions held by the students of Notre Dame. 
Show up at the CCE Thursday and voice your opinion. Despite the apparent firmness of the Provost not to change the calendar, perhaps a massive show of strength can prove effective. 
-Jerry Lutkus 

For Convenience's Sake 
With the unveiling of the Nixon ad­ministration's plans for fighting the fuel crisis comes a lot of sacrifices on the part of American citizens. We face the possibility of rationed gas in our cars, limited speeds on our highways and lower temperatures in our homes. 
Pragmatically speaking, that's pretty much to ask without some complaints. 
But for the most part, the complaints will be petty. Nearly everybody will consider himself important enough for the maximum fuel ration when that comes about, and will probably start to rattle like the proverbial empty barrel 
when he doesn't get his gallons. 
Despite these complaints, however, most Americans. will go along with the sacrifice. Granted, they won't have much choice in the matter, but when it comes down to it, the only thing they'll sacrifice will be convenience, a commodity eminently expendible. 
But convenience means a lot to Americans, and if that will be their sacrifice, the last thing they'll stand for is seeing someone else getting the con­venience they don't have. And this is the danger the Nixon administration faces now. 
In a copyrighted story Tuesday in The Dallas Morning News, The News' energy editor John Cranfill reported that the Defense Department is taking fuel from the American civilian market to fill the need created by the recent Arab em­bargo. Twenty-two oil companies in the United States were recently ordered to send enough petroleum products to the Defense Department to fulfill December needs, Cranfill's story said, quoting an unidentified Defense Department source. 
The authority for this order apparently comes from a 1950 act that President Nixon quietly reactivated November 1. 

NOtU RffM&M8eR, lr'S Va<'Y 
IHPai<TANT TlVIT n7U HAKE A 600{) IMP/?£5SION. 'f1(Y 
10 8& POliTE, SH/1.$ A 
tm; ANP tJON7 6tT INTIJ 
ANY A!<6VM£N75. ( 

l ' 
The act, called the Defense Production Act, was originally intended to insure military supplies during the Korean War. It seems incredibly convenient that the 
president can activate such an act 
assuring his military strength around the 
world before he has to tell Americans 
that they have to tighten their belts. It 
also seems rather curious that while 
American citizens will have to sacrifice 
their convenience, the military will not. 
The Nixon administration talks of 
banning Christmas decorations that use 
up power, lowering thermostats six 
degrees, turning off lights and travelling 
less. But talk of cutting military budgets, 
conserving military fuel and lowering 
military thermostats is scarce. Im­
plications of military convenience is 
plentiful. 
So what it boils down to is convenience and priorities. The convenience of the American citizen is placed at a low priority: there isn't enough fuel to go around, so the citizen does without. The convenience of the military, on the other hand, seems to rank higher on ad­ministration priority sheets: there isn't enough to go around, so it is taken from another source. 
This system of priorities is far from laudable, especially considering the stance of the Nixon administration in the eyes of the American public. Either a justification of such a move on the part of the Defense Department or a complete reordering of priorities is sadly needed here, if for no other reason than the convenience of the administration's credibility. "Join the army and stay warm" is not as funny as it sounds. 
-Joseph Abell 

16/.l. HIHAt/.. UIE 60T l£f'/ 
II& 54YS AKE TIRE& 
H~tt..1JIK& GWAY. NOll/ VIUA6E E/.P&RS 
'eM! ;I'/1 (OtH'{!N6 AN/J A ll/Ail. 
ON YOU 6(}'15 .. 

I 0/lPHANI 
/ I 


I I 

butch ward 
Remember 

It was extremely moving to watch the evening news this past Thanksgiving night. To watch the tow-headed children and sombre ladies and the proud gentleman stand before the flickering flame. It was extremely moving. 
To remember. 

To drift back past what seems an instant, a decade, to a cloudy day in a sixth-grade classroom when a normally icy principal's voice announced in quivering disbelief that our President had been shot. 
And moments later, that our President had died. To remember. To allow one's heart to shed the years of hardening that frustration 

and war and poverty and sickening political behavior has helped to mold, and to remember that sick feeling of guilt, of remorse, of bat­tered conscience that pervaded that sixth grade classroom. 
And which pervaded that three story row house we called home. And which blanketed the senseless football games that we played on the day off from school. The day we were given in order that we might honor and mourn and just plain realize. 
That we might remember. 

And Thursday night, watching the silent scene at the foot of John Kennedy's grave in the Arlington National Cemetary, the feeling returned. 
Remember. 

Remember a hot summer day not so many years ago when a horrified nation watched streams of determined, excited, freedom­happy black people fill the streets of Washington and spend an entire day singing, praying and telling America that the time for equality had arrived and would no longer be delayed. 
Remember the sweat-covered face of that revered Southern minister as his voice sang of the dream and the vision and the togetherness that would one day fill his beloved America. And remember the happy voices of those close to the microphone as their joy echoed his words and made them strong. 
And remember America as it cursed the black invasion and the sepseless gathering at the foot of Lincoln and the thought that blacks and whites could ever achieve more than co-existence. 
But remember also the televisions as they burned throughout the day, and cursing America as it watched the black invasion with anxious eyes, and the sighs of disbelief when the day ended and there had been no violence because that southern minister had helped his people say as they had never before said, that they wanted to be recognized and respected. 
And then remember again. 

Remember an April night when the feeling returned. When that television program millions of Americans were watching was in­terrupted and the horror .of a hotel balcony in Nashville, Tennessee became America's second nightmare in less than a decade. 
And remember that feeling. That feeling of remorse, of guilt, of battered conscience. That feeling that even the hatred of utter disagreement could not suppress. The feeling that only a man who had somehow risen above the rest of struggling humanity could elicit. 
Remember. 

Remember a night in late spring when a hot political campaign was becoming more and more heated and the nation went to sleep ex­pecting to rise the next morning and find who California's Democrats wanted as their representative in the approaching presidential election. 
And remember the feeling when instead of awakening to find a board showing voting statistics, America tuned in her televisions to the chaotic scene in the moppy-haired victor's headquarters. To the scene of screaming, and shoving, and eventual death. 
And then remember another endless trail of funeral processions, and the Battle Hymn, and the eternal rail trek to Union Station in Washington. And remember the people. The Americans. We who lined the streets of New York, the railroad tracks of the east coast the sidewalks of Washington, the cemetary of Arlington. We Ameri~ans with the tears in our eyes, with the pains in our hearts. 
Remember and ask why. Why the feeling of guilt? Why the feeling of remorse? Why the battered conscience? And what was it about these men that elicited these feelings that America has ceased to / experience? 
. Wasn't there something in John and Martin and Bobby that was different? Certainly no one would claim that while they lived they !llanaged to consolidate An1erica into one happy community believing m the same methods of accomplishing her dreams. Certainly no one would claim that there were not times when it was certainly thought that history would fail to shine favorably on these men. 
Yet we felt. They touched us. We disagreed with them, we thought them crazy in their idealism, but they touched us. Because somehow, they rose above. 
And we no longer are led by men who have risen above. 

We are no longer a nation behind a man, looking up to a man, struggling with a man. Instead we have taken a stand apart, and we follow when we feel him to be right, but only following a severe judgment on our parts that he is indeed right. And that ability to set ourselves apart is a result of his failure to rise above. We treat him as one of us, as one we are wary of trusting. 
He does not touch us. 

He pleads for our self-sacrifice in this time of energy crisis, and we ask when he has sacrificed of himself. He speaks of honorable stands, and we question when he has exhibited honor. He claims to be asking of us no more than he asks of himself, and that is his problem. We do 
, not believe him. He has not risen above. Perhaps An1erica could be justified following the pain of watching 
those whom she trusted being killed, if she decided to never again follow and allow herself to be touched by a man whose time with her is so fleeting, but that is not the case. 
She is without, we are without, a man who has risen above us, a man in whom we can carry a vision, a many by whom we can be led. Whether or not he is guilty of that which so many accuse him, he is nevertheless undeserving and incapable of sustaining the hopes and dreams of this people. 
Remember, America, when men rose above. Remember how they touched us. Remember how it hurt when they were suddenly gone. But be not satisfied with memories, for they are useless in the ab­

sence of dreams. Let us pray for the day when men will again rise above, and touch us, and lead us. Remember. And pray. 
I Wednesday, November 28, 1973 the observer 5 ~ 
Over 40,000 sold 

CILA card sale successful 
by Ann McCarry Staff Reporter 

All of the over 40,000 Christmas cards sold in this year's Cila drive have now been distributed, reports Card Sales Chairman Marty Dineen. "Any of the orders which have been filled incorrectly can be easily corrected by a quick trip or phone call to the Campus Ministry Office,." said Dineen (also available at 283-8523). 
There are approximately 200 
dozen cards still available. selling 
for $1.50 a dozen, which cal aos be 
Finals' fling slated for a -week from Sat. 
by AI ~utherford Staff Reporter 

This year's Armory Party, the 'Finals' Fling, will be held Saturday, December 8, from 8:30 
p.m. to 12:30 a.m. at the South Bend National Guard Armory. Cost of tickets is $2.50 per person. 
Free bus service will be provided to and from the party. Busses will leave the circe! every 15 minutes starting at 8:00p.m. Also starting at midnight, and every fifteen Windjammer will provide the party with continuous music. Forty-five kegs of beer and fifty pounds of peanuts (for yoou peanuts lovers) will be provided. 
minutes  thereafter,  busses  will  
return students to the circle.  
The  Mark  Bloom  Band  and  

Memhers of the Social Com­mission worked on the party and were supervised by co­chairpersons Mary Siegel and Art Margiotta. Siegel, emphasizing the use of the busses, commented, "We are providing the busses for the safety of the students. Hopefully, they will use the busses instead of driving." 
Tickets will be on sale every night at the dining halls. 
boughta t the Campus. Ministry 
Office. · 
The profits from these sales are 
used to support CILA projects. 
These projects include tutoring in 
Mississippi, care for the elderly in 
Mexico, as well as aid to an Indian 
reservation in South Dakota and 
the poor in the West Indies. Ample 
funds may enable CILA to open 
new projects in Panama, Ap­
palachia, and New Orleans. CILA 
is currently effecting a new 
tutoring program in South Bend. 
Over 200 people participated in 
this year's sale of the cards, which 
proved twice as successful as last 
year's, reporter Dineen. 
"We'd especially like to thank all the students and faculty who · bought and sold the cards as well as ihe Campus Press, The Ob­server, and the Student Govern­
ment for all their help," Dideen 
said. "'Through their cooperation CILA will be able to help even more people than before spreading the true Christma~ spirit." 
Role of individual important 
(continued from page 1) 
He then passed on an anecdote. "The members of the Chicago Seven had a saying," he said, "because we all came from dif­ferent backgrounds and were all of different persuasions even though we held common beliefs. We used . to say 'Unity in Diversity'. This is· what we should all strive for: Solidarity in Mutual Respect and Struggle." 
Hayden blamed the media for 
putting unattractive labels and 
manipulating the public opinion in 
regard to demonstrators. "The 
media are keeping us from having 
our own sense of identity," he said, 
"and we have not been allowed to 
To!" Hayden .Cleft) and David Dellinger, former members of the
write our own history based on the 
Ch1cago 8, discussed the continuing situation in Vietnam and
experiences and learning we know 
protest movements in the United States in Lafortune Ballroom
to be true." 
Tuesday night. (Staff photo by Jamie DeCio).
He concluded by saying that the' American people need a "feeling of engagement and becoming in­volved in a process. This is why 
ND benefactor Gerit}' dies 
the polls showed that most people would rather watch Watergate than the soap operas." 
In a question and answer session following the speech, Hayden attributed nmch of the energy shortage to a collaboration of the oil companies, the Government, and the military. "Saying that we have a shortage because a housewife is burning the lights for too long is handling this only marginally," he said. "What we need to do is deal with the military, which is aln1ost totally based on oil." 
CE books here 
Copies of the Spring 1974 Semester edition of the Course Evaluation Book will be available today at the offices of the College Deans, the Off-Campus Office in LaFortune and in the classroom buildings. 
the observer 

Night Editor: AI Rutherford Asst., Night Editor: Tom Devine Layout: Bill Brink Day Editor: Jim Rosini Copy Editor: Greg Aiello Compugraphic: Joe Abell Typists: C. Fourre, T. Modglin, J. Flannigan Pictures: Jerome Night Controller: T. J. Clinton Supplement photographer: Bill Rahner · 
James Gerity, Jr.,. 69, a benefactor of Notre Dame, died Monday in Toledo, Ohio, as a result 
of cancer.  
Services  will  be  Thursday.  
Theodore  Hesburgh  will  deliver  
the eulogy.  Others  from  Notre  

Dame who will attend the services are Dean Thomas T. Murphy of the College of Business Administration and Associate Dean John R. Malone. 
Gerity was a member of the college's advisory council since 1948. He served as chairman of the advisory council during the 1958-59 academic year. 
I 
J-




w NO 
SMC 
THEATRE 
SEASON 1973-74 

An honorary doctor of laws degree was awarded to him during commencement of exercises last May. 
He was the president and owner of. Gerity Cablevision in Bay City, MICh., and owner and president of the Gerity Broadcasting Co., with stations in Adrian and Bay City 
Mkh. ' 
. Theology 324, Sex and Marriage, taught by Fr. Hoffman is now closed. There are no more openings in either class. 
' ­

RESERVATIONS 284-4176 Bus. Hrs. 283-7054 Show Nites 
Student -Facul~' ND-8MC Staff 
$150 

Thieves' Carnival 
Jean Anouilh's merry masquerade Dec. 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 at 8:30p.m. Washington Hall (Notre Dame) 

EUROPE! 

TALK TO THE SPECIALISTS IN YOUTH TRAVEL 
Low, Low Prices ANY Destination 
CALL CLARK 234-2098 


Tirttfont 
Tires 
GROUP PURCHASE AGREEMENT 

Now available at a special discount to all students and em­ployees of Notre Dame. We handle a complete line of 4 ply, Belted, Radial, and Import car tires; at your special price. Also, our Philco appliance and Electronic Department will extend the discount. Please bring your J.D. card for iden­tification. 
. 

OFFER GOOD ONLY AT OUR DOWNTOWN STORE. 
KENWOOD 
AUDIO SYSTEM SPECIAL 
+2 ROCZ Speakers 8"-3" 
+ Kenwood 2200 Receiver 
+BSR Changer 
soo.~()~.·
~t.Uft~~ 
421 Hickory Rd. 


RETREAT • OLD COLLEGE 
TOM STELLA, CSC (FRI.) NOV·. 30 • (SUN) DEC. 2 
reservation can be made in the campus ministry office (103 Lib) $5 fee--$3 non-refundable deposit 
j 
'­
r ­
l 
~ 
f I f l 
~ 
~ 
• 
~ 
I 
I I I 
~ ~ 
I 
t 
I I l I I t 
~ 
I I I I I l I l I l l 
I 

6 

the observer Wednesday, November 28, 1973 
Jim

Nixon to provide complete 
'63 
Chuck


income tax information 
'65

WASHINGTON (UPI) forms," Warren said. "We have 
Nixon told several senators at 
people hard at work compiling
President Nixon will provide a White House meeting Monday"complete information" on his information which the Presi­night that he planned to release personal finances probably this dent will provide in a form or his actual income tax returns in week but has not decided if he forum to be determined." a few days, but Warren backed 
GO IRISH 

will make his actual income tax "It's obvious the President off from any commitment or 
returns public, Deputy Press desires complete information be deadline. 
DON'T FORGET MIAMI!

Secretary Gerald L. Warren available," Warren said. "He will be releasing infor­
said Tuesday. Warren said the disclosures mation," Warren said. "He 
MANY CHRISTMAS SPECIALS

said President would include "the whole
Warren the wants to clear this up and other 
NOW ON DISPLAY

has not determined "in what matter of the President's matters concerning erroneous 
form or forum" he will make finances" but refused to identi­
charges and other allegations. 
EAST ON EDISON LEFT 1 

-AT L NEBACKER 200yds. on left that the White House has been staffers involved in preparing ble in some way." 
the financial disclosures, but fy the group of White House The information will be availa­
lO percent DISCOUNT ON CALL A DAY AHEAD at work compling information the information. He would not 
Nixon admitted in a recent '=:=C=A=S=E=S=O=F=L=I=Q=U=O=R=A=N=D=W=I=N=E===T=O=O=R=D=E=R=K=E:iG=S===:_
for release. say if any outside lawyers or news conference that he paid r­
"I'm not prepared to say accountants were working on only "nominal" taxes in 1970 whether it will include tax the report. and 1971 because he deducted $500,000 for volumes of vice 
ALIFORNIA CLU 

presidential papers he turned 
over to the National Archives.

Oil allocations vvill 
Ullllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 
TWA XMAS FLITE


affect homeowners 
Gerald Ford 
and 10 degrees in businesses the amount recommended by 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -The 
*$201 RND TRIP*

government issued new heating Nixon in a nationwide speech 
as vice-pres.
oil allocation regulations Tues­Sunday -or to reduce con­
TO SAN FRANCISCO

day to force individual users to 
reduce temperatures in their sumption of other scarce fuels By GENE BERNHARDTby an equivalent amount.
homes and businesses by 6 to 10 WASHINGTON (UPI) -The
Customers will get an initial
degrees. Senate, in a roll call for the
"fill-up" if enough heating oil is 
history books, voted 88 to 3
The regulations, published in available but after that supplies 
Tuesday to confirm Rep.
the Federal Register, will will be cut by the amount 
Gerald R. Ford of Michigan to
require that the end user of necessary to force the lower 
be the next Vice-President of
middle distillate fuels -the temperatures. 
the United States.

American consumer -cut in­Anything left over will be door temperatures or face the saved for non-priority use, Voting against the nomination prospect of running out of fuel including hardship cases. were Sens. Thomtls F. Ea­during the coldest months. The regulations will not go gleton, D-Mo.; 'Gaylord Nelson, 
The administration originally into effect until Congress "has D-Wis., and William D. Ha­
thaway, D-Maine.

had hoped to solve heating oil passed President Nixon's ener­The historic vote, first to be FULL PAYMENT DUEshortages by allocation at the gy conservation legislation, 
taken under the 25th Amend­
wholesale level only, but the expected to be law by mid­
ment for presidential succes­
new regulations put the pri­December. 
sion, came one day less than THIS FRIDAY NOV. 30
mary responsibility on the final The administration said the user. limits on heating oil use are seven weeks after Spiro T. The regulations are designed necessary to spread anticipated Agnew resigned pleading no to force consumers to lower shortages "equitably through­
contest to a single count of income tax evasion. 
AT BADIN TRAVEL

thermostats 6 degrees in homes out the nation." 
AGENCY

Senate votes to provide money 
·ONLY 40 SEATS AVAILABLE-

for congressional campaigns 
BUS FARE NOT INCLUDED 

By MIKE FEINSILBER amendmem!> sponsored by Public financing of cam­
WASHINGTON (UPI) -The Sens. Hugh Scott, R-Pa., and paigns has been advocated by Senate voted 52 to 40 Tuesday Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass. public figures from Theodore to provide for tax-paid financ­Among other features of the Roosevelt to Spiro T. Agnew, 
FRIDAY IS

ing of congressional campaigns Scott-Kennedy package were but persistently opposed by after the 1974 election. extension of public financing to members of Congress fearing The revolutionary proposal presidential races, including criticism for voting to have the was attached to a bill that primaries as well as the public treasury finance their 
ABSOLUTELY THE 

would raise the legal ceiling on general election, and a ban or: campaigns, and objecting to the the national debt, and was part private· contributions in boU same treatment for their of a four-point package of congressional and presidentia electoral opponents. 
LAST DAY FOR
elections. 

Thermostats at 
0 

PAYMENTS FOR THE
IU down to 68 
Thermostats at Indiana University at South Bend were 
CALIFORNIA CLUB 

turned back to 68 degrees this week in compliance with statewide ef­forts to conserve energy. Prior to 
XMAS CHARTER

the cutback, IUSB classrooms and offices had been heated to 72 degrees. 
I.U. vehicles operated from Indiana University at South Bend 
ROUND TRIP FROM 

will conform to the 50 mile-per­hour speed limit imposed by the governor's office on all state 
SOUTH BEND TO
vehicles. 

RESEARCH 
LOS ANGELES 

Thousands of Topics $2.75 per page Send for your up-to-date, 160-page, 
$208.50 AT THE BADIN 

mail order catalog. Enclose $1.00 
to cover postage (delivery time is 
1 to 2 days). 
TRAVEL AGENCY 

RESEARCH ASSISTANCE, INC. 
NOW AVAILABLE AT
11941 WILSHIRE BLVD., SUITE #2 LOS ANGELES, CALIF. 90025 (213) 477-8474 or 477-5493 
THE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOK STORE 
SEATS STILL AVAJLABLE...

Our research material is sold for 
. ' . ~ . .
research assistance only. 
• f ' ( •• -•• t. f • .... ' 

. . • · • • · • • • • • t.t.l It. A I.'<, I'• '• ·, ··, 
~----------------------~----------------------~ .. 
L_________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 




' f ' •••• 6 • • • • • • • • • • • .. .. ~ • • • • • • .. • 

-,' : .'' •

'' Wednesday, November 28, 1973 the observer 
7 

Search on for strangler's killer 
WALPOLE, Mass. (UPI) ­Albert DeSalvo would have been tried for one of the Boston stranglings if he hadn't been slain Sunday at Walpole State Prison, his attorney said Tuesday. 
Lawyer Pat J. Piscitelli of Brockton said DeSalvo would have been tried in Middlesex Superior Court next spring for the slaying of Beverly Samans, 23, of Cambridge. Her murder was one of 13 generally attributed to the Boston Stran­
gler  between  June,  1962  and  
January, 1964.  
Meanwhile,  the  search  for  

DeSalvo's killer continued Tues­day at the prison. Inmates have been locked in their cells and strip-searched, according to a spokesman for the corrections department. 
DeSalvo, 42, was stabbed 16 times, apparently with a surgical instrument. He had been dead about 10 hours when his body was found Monday morning. 
In an interview with the Brockton Enterprise, Piscitelli said, "Albert was prepared to confess to all of the Boston stranglings. He would only have been tried for the one (Samans) but testimony would have been introduced on the others." 
DeSalvo had admitted he was responsible for the murders, then repudiated those admis­sions. While he was never tried on the murder charges, the onetime boxer and handyman was convicted of unrelated 
Art Mart Ill to hold auction 
Art Mart III, the biennial auction of art objects, will be held Saturday, December 1, 1973, at 
10:00 a.m. in the South Bend Art Center, 121 North Lafayette Boulevard. Lewis and Lambright of LaGrange, Indiana, are the auctioneers. 
Movies will be provided by the league for children ages 4-12, while their parents attend the auction. (Showings: 10:00 a.m., 12:00 noon, and 2:00p.m.) 
Donors needed for Red Cross 
Volunteers are still being recruited todonateblood in the Red Cross drive this Thursday and Friday, from 10:00 a.m. to 4:00 
p.m. Organizers stress that the process is much more efficient and quicker if donors sign up ahead of time. Anyone wishing to par­ticipate can call Jack McKeon at crimes. tests, and DeSalvo told his 

However, Middlesex County story, we would evaluate the District Attorney John J. case. And if there were Droney said there was no plan evidence, we would go forward to bring DeSalvo to trial for the with it." Samans stabbing. Nothing came of the proposal, 
He did say that Piscitelli he said. came to him "about a year ago "I am and have been of the and indicated that DeSalvo opinion that he <DeSalvo) was wanted to tell the whole story. I not responsible for any of those told him that DeSalvo would cases," Droney said. have to take lie detector tests. Said Piscitelli, "I had an When he got the results of the agreement with Droney and 
IRA blockades roads with 
bomb-laden 
By FRANK JQHNSTON 

BELFAST (UP I) -Irish Republican Army (IRA) gun­men hijacked dozens of buses, trucks and cars Tuesday night and turned them into potential­ly bomb-laden barriers blocking more than 30 main roads across Northern Ireland. 
Bombs in two hijacked vehicles exploded at Coagh, 40 miles northwest of Belfast, and Downpatrick, 25 miles south­west of the capital. Neither blast caused casualties, an army spokesman said. 
Roadblocks of hijacked vehi­cles sealed off Lurgan, 20 miles southwest of Belfast, almost isolated Strabane on the Irish 
barricades 
Republic border, and blocked 
roads  between  Belfast  and  
Dublin and Londonderry.  
British  officers  called  the  

action a "demonstration of strength by the IRA." They said it was an escalation of the IRA campaign to destroy Northern Ireland's new Protest­ant-Roman Catholic coalition government. 
Gunmen who riddled a Catholic mill worker's car with bullets may have killed him by mistake, police said. 
Earlier terrorists disrupted a visit by a beauty queen to a British army post in London­derry. 
South Viet forces continue lighting in Phnom Penh 
By ARTHUR HIGBEE 

PHNOM PENH (UPI) Government forces trying to reopen Phnom Penh's land link to its only deepwater seaport came under a rebel mortar barrage Tuesday 25 miles from the capital, field reporters said. 
Five civilians and two sol­diers were wounded in two barrages totaling 20 rounds of 82mm mortar fire along both sides of Kompong Speu, mili­tary sources said. 
The insurgents were appar­ently attempting to outflank government troops trying to reopen Highway 4, the road from Phnom Penh to the port of Kompong Som. 
The highway has been cut since Nov. 11 near Mohasaingn, 11 miles farther southwest from Kompong Speu. 
In South Vietnam, Communist gunners stepped up their shelling of the defense lines around Hue, 400 miles north of Saigon, Tuesday and fired mortars at the district capital of Khiem Hanh, 40 miles northwest of Saigon, govern­ment spokesmen said. 
Viet Cong peace negotiators boycotted a scheduled meeting with South Vietnamese officers to protest government bombing raids on Communist-held terri­tory 70 miles north of Saigon last week. 
In other Cambodian battle­field action, Communist forces fired two Soviet-built rockets at Phnom Penh's Pochentong air­port at dawn, but they exploded harmlessly in rice fields half a mile from the end of the airport's lone runway, military spokesmen said. 
Pochentong and the Mekong 

River are  the  only  two  supply  
routes  to  Phnom  Penh  still  
open.  


Price ShatteringSale 
~·ll Value Now Only 






J2·'' 
_:_~~~N· 
~ ·iit._:;'•'-.~"h ~\J;.·J 

y MEMOREXRecoroingTape 
~~uction so true it can shatter glass. 
NOW AVAILABLE AT HE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOK STORE 
Assistant District Attorney strangler. Richard Gargiulo that Albert "All Albert wanted was to be would be tried if the lie treated at an institution where detector tests showed he was he could be helped," Piscitelli 
telling the truth about commit­said. "He hoped he would be ting the crimes. Personally I found innocent by reason of believe he would have pas;ed insanity of the murder of those tests. There's no doubt in Beverly Samans and that he my mind that Albert was the would then get that treatment." 
THE BABY MAKER 
"An Unconventional Movie" 
-Time Magazine 
starring Barbara Hershey 
Engineering Auditorium, Tues, Nov. 27 and Wed, Nov. 28 8 & 10 pm $1.00 
University of Notre Dame Glee Club 
in concert 

Wednesday, Nov. 28, 1973 Sacred Heart Church 
Admission: Free Time: 8:15 pm 
Early seating advised 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
notices 

Morrissey Loan Fund can loan up to $150 at 1per cent interest, 1 day waiting period. basement of La Fortune. 11: 15· 
12:15 Mon.-Fri. 
EUROPE! Take advantage of student rates. Talk to the specialists-BOAC-British Airways. Group inquiries welcome. _Call Clark 2~.4-2098. 
OVERSEAS JOBS-Au .trailia, Europe, S. America, .>.frica. Students all profes~ ns and occupations $700-30' J. Ex­penses paid , vertime, sightseeing. Free i· formation Write TRANS WORLD RESEARCH, Dept_ F3, PO Box 603, Corte Madera, Ca. 94925. 
Off Campus Students! 
GIGANTIC SNATCH!! free! Outside the off campus office Mardi Gras raffle packets! Take any one, unless you 7708 have your own. Help the Master of Middle Earthh sell raffle tickets. ! ! 1f4 COM­MISSION ON EACH BOOK. 
Nice Christmas box sets -good bookx for all. Pandora's books. 
TYPING-experienced in theses, dissertations, essays, term papers. Call 232-9061. 
WANTED 

Help wanted for Saga Food Service at SMC. Apply at office , Dining Hall. 
RIDES WANTED 
Need ride to Bloomington this weekend . Share $. Mark 7956. 
FOR RENT 
4 BR house, recreation room, study, fireplace,wall to wall carpet, just rennovated, completely furnished. For grad students only. Jan semester or immediate oc­cupation. AI Brasseur 289-2461. 
Rooms $40 mo. Ride. 233-1329. 
PERSONALS 
Dear Virginia V ., Hope you found what you wanted. 
lpve, Oscar. 
When Irish hearts are happy. 
the whole world's bright and gay! Happy 20th, Erin! 

'Congratulations Colleen. Welmew you'd snag John even­..lv. Love, the GA boys 
Anyone to haul sofa safly at holidays or end semester to Sanford, N.C? Mrs. Apt. 4317. 
Need 1 or 2 tix to Thrs. Nov. 29 WHO concert in Chicago. Call 6716.
. 
Want'h>r 2tilt for WHO ' tdntert' ' ' ' Maggie 1316. 


.. 
' 
the observer Wednesday, November 28, 1973 

NO's cagers borrow grid dreams 
since practice began on October 15 man and Roger Anderson for
by Greg Corgan ' support f the b h And s
so we're ready to go." rom enc . a And on saturday Digger will go the season wears on s~ch benchThough Notre Dame football 
with John Shumate (6-9) at center strength may come m handy,may be the biggest news coming "Goose" Novak (6-7) and fresh~ considering the opponents the Irish out of South Bend these days as man Adrian Dantley (6-5) at the will encounter.
Ara Parseghian entertains 
forwards, and Gary Brokaw (6_3) .As well as those always toughthoughts of a possible national 
and Dwight Clay (6-0) at guard Big Ten teams and Kentucky, NDchampionship, there is also a On Dantley, Phelps commented, will face UCLA. twice, ~a~sas,different coach with a different "Adrian's ready already. He'll Marquette, Davidson, M!Chi~an
sport, but similar visions about to 
start on Saturday.We were going to State, .Fordhan~, South Car?hna,
begin his 1973-74 campaign. 
try and blend in the freshmen with and VIllanova JUSt to mention aThe coach is Digger Phelps, and the veterans like (Pete) Crotty and few. "It's a tough schedule,"the sport, of course, is basketball. 
Novak as the season progressed, add?d .Phelps, "Ob~iously whenAnd should the Irish pick up where and we'll do that with <Billy) you rem t~e top ~en m the country they left off last season, it could Paterno, <Billy) Drew, <Dave) everybody s lookmg to beat you. Ifindeed be a banner year. 
Kuzmicz, (Ray) Martin, and we ~et beat, we get beat, but weBut despite the pre-season ac­(Toby) Knight, but Dantley's can,t afford to ~eat ourselv.es. Weclamation, (including a number ready to_ play right away. Still cant n~~ke mistakes agamst thefour ranking by Sports Crotty will see a lot of action and competition we face.
Illustrated), and a plethora of we have several players wh~ can "I~ order to ge,t an at-large bidtalented freshmen to back-up last 
totally commit themselves to our you figure we can t have much less year's "iron five", Digger is system and we plan to use them than a ~0-6 . record, and playingcautiously optimistic. 
all. None of our players are going UCLA twice If you have two losses, "I don't say we'll be national to have to go the entire 40 minutes there, y~m only have four others t,ochamps, we have to earn it," noted this season." play with. Therefore we cantthe 32-year-old coach. Our goal Regarding his younger players afford t? have turnovers and other right now is to get an NCAA at­Digger was understandably such nnstakes and play ourselve,s large bid, make it through the concerned with the future. "What I out of the ballgame. It doesn tregionals, and get to Greensboro to want to do is to bring our freshmen matter where ~ou are ~?w, butthe finals. But of course there are in with our veterans so that they where you a~e m March. 
many, many variables that you can learn and gain that valuable And for Digger Phelps Marchhave to look at." 

game-type experience. I'd rather mea~s Greensboro, NorthOne of those variables concerns have us go 19-7 and have gained the Carohna, and the top of the polls.
the Irish road schedule which Phelps believes to be one of the most challenging in the country. 

=~~:::a~~~~~:~~lt~.:~~~~~~ Frank Pomarl· co--playl·ng
without learning much, and then"We have a tough road schedule, lose the opener in the playoffs."
especially in December, and that With the season opener only
could give us some problems. That'll be the critical month 

three days away, and the NCAA J.,&100 tba11 wl•th a purpose
because we play three Big Ten tournament a couple of months in the future, the Irish coach turned
teams on their home court, and to the team's immediate goals.

then Kentucky at Louisville." offensive line, but the Irish guard near-upsets this year, and we know
"We want to play aggressive man by Vic Dorr
Those three Big Ten teams are hasn't received any sympathy that we're just ripe to be plucked. 
to man defense, control the boards, Sports Editor 
Ohio State on Dec. 3, Northwestern cards from his opponents because I'm sure the whole team realizes
and get the fast break." Diggeron Dec. 6 and Indiana on Dec. u·. 

of it. One week after his debut this, and I think we'll be ready. Itnoted. "We'll get to the press later The room belonged to senior
"Tex Winter at Northwestern against Army, Pomarico went 60 will be one of our toughest games
on. A lot has been said about us guard Frank Pomarico, Notrehas a reputation as an outstanding minutes against Southern Cal. And of the season, but I think we'll bebeing a pressing team this year. Dame's offensive tri-<!aptain, but it 
basketball coach, and you know on ND's first offensive play of the ready.
Well, with Dantley and the kids we might have belonged to any
what he did against Minnesota at second half, he teamed with junior 
have now, we aren't going to need student resident of any university "All of us, I think, are sharing
the end of the season last year," Gerry DiNardo, the other guard, to
to press. They do a good job of dormitory. It was a small single Ara's emotions for this game.
explained the third year Irish cause enough havoc in the left side 
playing defense at half-<!ourt and and was sparingly furnished with a He'll tell us something at the
coach, "and everyone knows the of USC's defense to free Eric
underneath the basket. Some of desk, a carpeted floor, a roll-away beginning of the week, then bring · 
job Fred Taylor has done at Ohio Penick for an 85-yard scoring run.
the kids we wanted to press with day bed, and a sheet-metal locker. us along slowly and let it sink in. 
State through the years. Of course, aren't ready yet, and so we don't The walls were hung with Out­The following week it was Navy. On Thursday and Friday he'll ·Bobby Knight's fine team made it 

to the of NCAA want to press at this point. ward Bound posters and framed Then Pittsburgh. Then last begin to build us up, and than on
semifinals the "Of course that doesn't mean if snapshots of Pomarico's fiancee, a Thursday Pomarico and his of­Saturday he'll let it .all go. But wetournament last year. Then our 

we're down by ten points, we're not raven-haired coed from Western fensive teammates rolled up 28 won't realize the effect of thatlast game of the month is against going to press, but we'll stick with Michigan University. On the shelf first-period points on route to a 48-emotion until the day of theKentucky at Louisville. I'd say what we have for the time being." above the day bed lay a pile of 15 Iaugher against Air Force. And game."
that's as s difficult a task as 

books and brochures and the twin now, one week before the con­
anyone's the first month." What Phelps has besides defense But the emotion of the 1973
speakers of a modest stereo clusion of the regular season, the
However, Digger and his crew is a lot of talent and a lot of depth. season has had other effects on
system. '73 Irish are within a single game
open their season in the friendly Other than the starting five, Crotty Frank Pomarico and his Irish · 
The room contained only one of becoming NO's first undefeated, 
confines of the ACC this Saturday and that promising group of teammates. It has given the Irish
memento of Pomarico's varsity untied team in 24 years.
against Valparaiso, and there's no newcomers, Digger can always a goal to shoot for, and has
football career--a three-year
doubt that they're anxious to start. turn to seniors Kenny Wolbeck, And such a dream season was, minimized the mental wear and
career which has brought both
"We're ready to play," said Leo Schmelzer, Tom Hansen, vows Pomarico, in the back of his tear of two and one-half months of 
success and setback. Laying
Phelps, "we need a game right "Hawk" Stevens, junior Tom mind all along. college football.
carelessly against one of the 
now. We've been working hard Varga, and Sophs Myron Shuck-

speakers was an official in­"As you begin every year at "It has given us a shot in the tercollegiate football, still tawny Notre Dame," he said, "the idea of arm," said Pomarico. "There'sMid-match blitz sends with newness. It was a Notre the National Title is always em­always some emotional and Dame game ball. bedded in your mind-and of course physical drain towards the end. of a "October 20, 1973," read the you're always hoping that things season, but being !H> and having a legend painted on its side. "Notre will turn out that way. Some years shot at the National Title changes
Irish past Chicago State 

Dame vs. Army. 62-3." you may have less material than all that. It gives a purpose to the by Rich Odioso Bruening, 5-3, at 150, to close the Notre Dame has played bigger the year before, but in other years whole season." gap to 15-9, but then the fireworks games and more important games you may have more spirit, or more "Purpose" is a word Frank 
Boom ! Boom ! Boom! That was started. during the past three years, but for talent at the skilled positions. Pomarico uses carefully. But the the sound as Lou DiPasquale, John DiPasquale pinned Chicagoan Frank Pomarico few contests have "So sure, there were question big, good-natured senior has found Dowd and Chip Habig scored been able to match the significance the purpose he sought in the 1973
Rich Doran at 3:54, and Dowd marks this year-but I always had 
successive pins to break open a followed, flattening Alex Ilich in a of NO's 1973 meeting with the in the back of my mind that we college football season. He has 
close match and send Notre lightning-fast 33 seconds. Habig Military Academy. also found the purpose he sought in 
could do it." 

Dame's Fighting Irish and new kept things going at 177, decking That game was the fifth of the Notre Dame itself. 
The '73 Irish haven't "done it"
coach Fred Pechek to their first Tom Gauger in 2:33. The three year for coach Ara Parseghian's "Before I got here," he ad­
yet, of course. They still must
win of the season over Chicago pins powered Notre Dame to a 33-9 Fighting Irish, but it was the first mitted, smiling, "I had a fantasy
contend with Miami's Hurricanes
State, 45-9, before an overflow game of Frank Pomarico's senior that Notre Dame would be the
lead. 

in a Saturday night contest in the
crowd in the Convo's Auxiliary season. The 6-1, 250-pounder from perfect place. But now I know 
Freshman John Zintsmaster Orange Bowl, and face, after that,
Gym. Howard Beach, N.Y., tore the things aren'tquite that way. Notrepicked up his first win by I ligaments in his left ankle during a New Year's Eve appointment Dame is a good school with a good
Freshman Skip Mondragon got disqualification over the Cougars' with Alabama's Crimson Tide. But
' NO's first scrimmage of the pre­tradition behind it, and it's been
stalling Rich Rotheiser, and they are closer to a perfect year
the Irish off to a good start when season and, prior to Army, was good to me during the past four his takedown with :45 seconds left Captain AI "Ace" Rocek capped sidelined for seven long and now than any Notre Dame team years--but tt.ere are disad­gave him a 5-3 win over Chicago's the proceedings by pinning Tyrone tedious weeks. has been since 1970, when Joe vantages, too.
Jordan in four seconds over a Theismann and Co. lost to
Bob Schirmer at 118. The Cougars "It was great to get back," he "I think, though, that I've found took their only lead of the night, 6-minute. The win was the 36th of said, "and once I did the Southern Cal in that year's season more good here during the past
Rocek's career and moves him into finale.
3, when muscular Mel Bland frustrations of getting hurt all four years than I could have found 
.. 
a tie for fourth place on the all­
scored his second pin of the year, disappeared. Coming back was "Now, I can't predict anything," anywhere else. Notre Dame has
time-<!areer list.

dropping NO's Dan Heffernan my decision, too. Ara didn't push said Pomarico, "and I don't want helped me mature," he said, no midway through the second period me at all. I played only a half to. But I'd have to say that during longer smiling. "It's helped me of their 126-pound match. The grapplers now take off for against Army, but since then my the second half of the season we've develop into a person who thinks he 
Upper New York State where they 

ankle has been less and less sore had our ups and downs, and we've knows what he wants, and who Notre Dame regained the lead face Oswego on Thursday and every week. Not it doesn't bother played pretty well even when thinks he knows where he's going." 
when Steve Moylan and Dave compete in the Rochester In­me at all. But it might," he added, we've been down. And I think And you get the feeling that Boyer pinned their foes in the third vitational over the weekend. The "have slowed me down a half-step that's the mark of a good team. Frank Pomarico does know where period to put the Irish ahead 15-6. next home match is a week from 

or so." "This week," he continued, ''we he's going-and not just when he's 
Rod Brown of Chicago State Sunday against St. Joseph's of The injury may have hampered play Miami down there. We know· pulling out to lead Eric Penick on aoutlasted Notre Dame's Fritz Indiana. 

~omarico's effectiveness on the Miami has a history of upsets or strong-side sweep. 


