
-
~----------------~---­
On The Inside 
Mid-east intervention •.•page 2 
Agnew speech ... page 3 

Vol. VIII, No 30 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Tuesday, October 16, 1973 
Drug raids hit three halls 

In St. Eds, Dillon & Grace 
normally have done, stating that tht>violationshad "too serious by Fred Graver and Tom Drape an affect on the University." This studentwasallowed a medicalObserver Reporters discharge from the University, and advised to seek psychiatric 
Drug raids have been conducted in St. Ed's, Dillon, and Grace help before being considered for re-admittance. Halls over the past two weeks by Dean of Students John The other student, who claimed not to be involved in the actual Macheca in an effort to "rid the campus of all drugs." dealings, was charged with being a "hard-core user of drugs", 
Machec~ has been operating from a list he has compiled of and was suspended from the University for one semester. The known dealers and users on the campus. third student has been placed on social probation. 
The first raid was conducted on Oct. 3 in St. Ed's hall by Macheca, Arthur Pears, Director of CampusSecurity, and Fr. Third raid in Grace Terry Lally, Assistant Dean of Students. Two students were 
The third raid occurred in Grace Hall on the afternoon of Oct. 
found to be in psseission of drugs. One was expelled from the 9. Agian the raiding party consisted of Macheca, Pears, Lally,University, and the other's case is now pending. 
and the rector of the hall, Fr. Tom McNally. Two students were charged with the sale and possession otSecond raid in Dillon marijuana and LSD. Their case is now pending before the 
On Oct. 9, a second raid was conducted, this time in Dillon Dean of Students. Hall. At approximately 9:45a.m., Macheca, Pears, Lally, and Over the weekend, Macheca stated h1s reason for not calling Father -David Schalver, rector of Dillon, knocked on the door in civil authorities to handle the matter. He said that this was "a of three students who were suspected of dealing in marijuana University matter, and that "if I have something to share with and LSD, according to informed sources. They presented the local authorities or the new media, I will make that decision resident who was present with a hit of LSD, claiming that it had myself about my responsibility to do it." been sold on campus by he and his roommates, and also a piece of paper notifying him that the room would be searched, if the Etienne cites responsibilitiesneed arose. The student gave Macheca the drugs that were in his 
In reply to an Observer editorial printed yesterday, whichpossession: nine hits of LSD and approximately one-half ounce · stated, " ... responsibility rests with the student government.
of marijuana. No search was conducted. 
Throughout these proceedings, they have remained silent.
While the University officials were still in the room, other neither pushing for the truth nor letting the students know howresidents came in and were informed of the charges being they stand on the controversy," Student Body President Dennis brought against them. All three students were charged in this Etienne stated:raid. One denied all knowledge of the dealings and was sup­"I suppo;,<! it is quite common for the SBP to be charged with ported by the other two, who have been brought up in separate 
inaction on certain matters. Unfortunately in some instances­
cases before Macheca. 

fortunately in others though-the extent of the Student Government's actions are often unknown to the public."Students questioned on drug "I am no friend to the pusher," he continued. However, I do oppose activiies such as 'undercover agents' and 'wiretaps'. If
Early that afternoon, the students were questioned by the University is operating in such a manner, they should admit Macheca about their knowledge of drug activities on campus. 
it and cease it."

Macheca told them that he knew "at least 250 people on this Etienne concluded, "war against the pusher is one thing-butcampus who use drugs", stated the source. He then proceeded the use of 'tricks' to catch them only presents a temporaryto show them the list he had compiled and asked if they had any solution and is likely to be detrimenatl in the long run. It is my 
names to add from their own experience. They declined to add any names. 
duty to discover if these means are being used; and beleive me, the job has already begun." 
According to informed sources, one student was charged with 
Dean of Sudent Macheca is expected to make a statementthe selling and possession of the drgus. The Observer was told 
Pears 

sometime today concerningtheseries of raids and his involvement in them.
by a reliable source Macheca did not handle his case as he would 

SLC considers student paranoia 
by Patrick Hanfin about the crime the university must give it to them. The student 
Staff Reporter then risks a damaging police 

The problem of 'Student record, concludedFaccenda. paranoia' concerning recent 'We are caught in a bind," Dr. University rule violations was the Faccenda said, "we do not want main topic of discussion at the students to be frightened but if yesterday's Student Life Council we give details the law may in­meeting. The SLC was asked by tervene and hurt the student. I am Dr. Philip Faccenda, vice going to do something I have never president for student affairs, for done before--ask for your advice." their advice on how to handle 'Committee members had paranoia problems such as several reactions. Prof. Roos specifically mentioned in pointed out that a policy of yesterday's Observer editorial. publicizing details might worry or 
The SLC advised Dr. Faccenda aggravate South Bend citizens into to publicize the procedures used in making official complaints that enforcingregulations and clarigying law enforcement agencies would therightsof students but not to give have to investigate. "We should details of individual cases. The not damage our good relationship SKC also discussed how the help with South Bend by publicizing students without making them these detailed matters" he said. 
exempt from all responsibility. 

Dr. Faccenda brought up the Student Body Vice President paranoia problem by saying that Micahel Gessinger suggested to "the Observer eidtorial raises the Faccenda that he make the old issue of the individuals right of policies of the Student Affairs privacy vs. the community's right Office "perfectly clear." As to to know." He explained that if the what procedures he is using to university finds some one breaking track down drug pushers. Mr. a university rule and also a local or Pleasence, faculty representative, state law they can handle the case suggested that the rules and without reporting to the sheriff or regulations include a sort of police. However if the police ex­"Student Bill of Rights" that would plicily ask for the information state explicitly what the Univer­sity would and would not do. 
Faccenda said that his office would pursue major violators but would never interfere with the student's legal right to privacy . "The University has the right to enter a student's room only if it has reason to believe that a rule or law has been violated and only if en­tering for purposes of University discipline," Faccenda stated. He defined "reason to believe" as covering only those situations where a violation was reported by a witness, or a University official saw, heard or smelled a violation himself. 
"Shakedown and fishing ex­peditions are illegal and won't be used. There has never been a wire tap and there will never be one as long as I am here," Faccenda promised. 
The SLC agreed with Faccenda on this stand and adivsed him (1) to publicize the procedures the Student Affairs Office will follow; 
(2) Explicitly state the student's rights and promise they will be respected; and (3) Reveal in­dividual cases only if the student involved agrees, in order to protect him from legal action. 
"Most students are interested in the policies that will affect them, not details of other cases, and this should reassure them," Student commissioner Robert Kincaid concluded. 
A related question was raised by Dr. Robert Akerman, Student Affairs Director of professional development, who, while agreeing with the SLC's consnesus, did not want the University to become a sanctuary that would make students immune to all legal responsibility. "Sometimes the best thing that education can do for you," he said, "is to make you take responsibility for your actions. The community should care enough to try to help students who may be destroying thier lives through abuse of drugs. Mr Macheca is doing this in his talks to some students." 

This was supported by Fr. Terry Lally, Assistant Dean of Students, who felt that strong discipline, even suspension, was beneficial in some cases. "But I am not favoring suspending everyone." 
Dr. Pleasence pointed out that the University acted much like very other community, trying to handle the problems of its mem­bers itself rather than going im­mediately to the law. Edward Rahill, student representtvie, argued that the university should help each student prepare for a productive life,and try to prevent a damaging police record. "The law should be brought only as a last alternative" he said, expressing the general agreement of the Commission. 
Wednesdays Observer will be the last 
before the break 
! 
1 
j 
I 
j 
1 
1 
1 
1 
l 1 
1 
i 
the observer Tuesday, October 16, 1973 
Direct intervention possible 
Nixon hints at Mid-east moves 
By United Press International 
The United States disclosed 
Monday it is airlifting tanks 
and planes to Israel to match a 
nonstop Soviet shuttle of 
supplies to the Arabs. Four 
Arab diplomats said they would 
appeal personally to President 
Nixon Tuesday to stay out of 
the Middle. East war. 
The Soviet Union told the 
Arabs it would assist them "in 
every way." 
Nixon hinted at the possibility 
of direct U.S. intervention and 
said U.S. policy was to assure 
the independence of Middle 
East nations, as it was in 1958 
when President Eisenhower 
sent the Marines to Lebanon 
and in 1970 when U.S. forces 
were alerted to intervene in the 
Jordanian civil war. 
In the United Nations, ambas­sadors from four Middle East nations said they would go to Washington Tuesday to try to convince President Nixon to stay out 'Of the Arab-Israeli war, diplomatic sources said. 
The sources said UN envoys from Algeria, Kuwait, Morocco and Saudi Arabia will leave for Washington early Tuesday. 
The decision to seek a meeting with Nixon came after the U.S. State Department announced Monday that the United States had already begun a massive airlift of war materiel to Israel. 

Western military analysts in London said Israel has lost perhaps 25 per cent of its air force or 80 to 100 planes and Israeli military spokesmen said Egypt had managed to get nearly its whole army across the Suez Canal for the forthcoming decisive battle of the Sinai peninsula. 
Israel nevertheless contended it maintains air superiority and was able to carry out strikes deep inside Syria and Egypt. It said it had repulsed an Egyptian thrust in the Sinai and reported crushing Iraqi and Moroccan forces in Syria where Israeli patrols were reported within nine miles of Damascus. 
Informed sources in Washing­ton said the airlift to Israel would include F4 Phantom jet fighter-born bers and tanks. It was not established whether the shipments would include FlU swingwing fighter-bombers with their capability of carrying 15 tons of bombs apiece. A 
'· 

spokesman at Pease Al''H, N.H., declined to confirm reports that FlUs had already left Pease for Europe and Israel. Reports from the U.S.­Portuguese air base in the Azores islands said U.S. planes 
were  -taking  off ­ every  lS  
minutes for  Israel.  
In  Damascus,  ·  President  

Hafez Assad went on television and radio Monday night to tell the Syrian people that Israel had broken through Syrian lines at one point but that they had since been repulsed and were in retreat. · 
"Our heroes changed the Israeli aggression of Oct. 6 into an enemy retreat ... " Assad said. 
Dozens of persons went into the blacked-out streets of Damascus and fired shots in the air after Assad's speech but the military command warned citizens not to waste ammuni­tion in demonstrations of joy "but save it for the enemy." An earlier Syrian communique said Syria had repelled an Israeli attack on the northern sector of the Golan Heights battlefront and shelled Israeli troops in Israel's Hula Valley and the region of the Sea of Galilee. 
Reaction to Agnew varied 
<UPI>-Many Americans said they were fed up and "disgusted" Monday night after former Vice President Spiro T. Agnew ad­dressed the nation. Some asserted Agnew was not being truthful about his political conduct. 
Others felt "sorry" for Agnew, but said he had gotten special treatment from the courts because of his high office. They said he should have stayed in office and fought for his rights if he believed in his innocence. 
Still others said he was "smart" to resign, but added that he wouldn't have quit unless he was guilty. 
"I think it's a fool who pleads guilty to a charge that he's in­nocent of," said Joseph Franko, chairman of the Concord, Ohio, township trustees. "If the man is convinced he is innocent, he should have climbed any mountain and forded any river to prove it." 
"I'm kind of disgusted," said Mrs. Doris Vogel, a Columbus, Ohio, housewife. "I don't think I'll vote Republican again unless they get some really good candidate. Agnew is not telling the truth." 

"I think it was a smart move on his part to resign," said Ray Barney, a Louisville, Ky., hotel manager. "But I don't believe he would have resigned if he was innocent of any charges. He would become tougher and more determined to stick out the situation to clear himself." Also in Louisville, Michael Terry, a high school senior, said, "It turns out the law and order administration belongs in jail. I listened to Agnew and felt sort of sorry for him, but if I did what he did, I'd be up the creek. What makes him better than me?" 
In Chicago, Torn Butler, an insurance salesman, said · Agnew "professed as much innocence as he could. I've never seen him so humble and I doubted that he had it in him. But I don't believe a word of
f 
it."

~ 
I 
"I think his plea of no contest actually was an admission ofr guilt as far as the tax charges
I 
go," said Dan Lisss, a Chicago 

~ 
r 
It 
'  
bartender. "I think was just sort of sympathy."  his speech a plea for  a retired clerical worker and housewife, said Agnew "was honest about it-but he done  

wrong."

In Spokane, Wash., attorney And in Seattle, bartenderCarl Maxey called the speech Walley Coffey declared: "At
"the sorriest thing I've ever 
least he didn't say 'you won'theard. I can't believe any have Agnew to kick aroundsensible person would allow anvn1ore."'
themselves to be swayed by that type of bleeding." 


R • s th 
In New York City, Steven egJna OU Gethers, who identified himself as a television writer, called Agnew "one of the biggest 

1 cts VP 

thieves and liars in public e e office. And that goes for Richard Nixon, too. I wouldn't 
I • • 
believe either of them now 

if a ter SlX trleS 
they  swore  on  a  stack  of  
Bibles."  
"This  entire thing  is  so foul,  

it's beyond description," said a New York City resident, Joseph Dimitri. "I don't think he's telling the truth even now." 
However, George Rines, a salesman who lives in Forest Hill, Md., declared himself "100 per cent behind Ted Agnew. If they're going to get Ted Agnew, they ought to go after the rest of hem." 
And Robert Huntington, of Annapolis, Md., said it "took a hell of a lot of guts" on Agnew's part to appear on TV after his resignation. 
Commenting on the media, Marilyn Frederick, a Louisville, Ky., housewife, said, "I guess it's understandable now why the Nixon Administration has attacked the press in the past. If someone didn't have some­thing to hide, I don't believe they would go after the press like Agnew has." 
In Detroit, Mrs. Rex Dunlap, 
by Leanne Jacques Staff Reporter 
Residents of Regina South yesterday elected Debbie Foran Vice-President with 43 votes. Foran's opponent Dorthea Wyland tallied 35 votes. 
A total of 88 ballots were cast in the election. Only 78 of those ballots were considered valid because of 8 abstentions, one write­in and one invalid ballot. 
This was Regina South's sixth election for vice-president. Prior elections had resulted in stalemates and invalid procedures. 
The Observer is published dally during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S8 per semester ($14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

The vacation period starting 
warld 




brief• 
__t 
~-­
Portland, Ore. -Vice presidential nominee Gerald R. Ford Monday sidestepped the question of whether he would accept a draft for the presidency in 1976. 
Ford was asked at a meeting of Republicans about the observation made by Sen. Henry Jackson, D-Wash., that persons who disclaim intentions for high officee "have a tendency to be drafted." In reply, the Michigan congressman repeated his consistent statement that he "will not seek public office in 1976." 
Washington -The State Department, citing an increase in the amount of Sbviet military supplies going to Arab nations, announced Monday the United States has begun an airlift of equipment to Israel to keep from "unsettling the military balance" in the Middle East. 
Robert J. McCloskey, spokesman for the State Department, refused to give an inventory of the U.S. supplies going to Israel, but sourco es said it included tanks and planes -mostly F4 Phantom fighter­bombers. He said some of the equipment already has reached the war zone and other officials added privately that the airlift had been in progress for about 30 hours. 
Dn c:ampu~ taday 
2:00pm-5:00pm, 7:00 _pm -9:00pm -art exhibit, sculpture by abner hershberger and jack smith, mixed media assem­blages by ann raymo, moreay gallery, smc 
2:00pm-film, civilization series, 'the great thaw', engineering auditorium 
7:00 pm . films, 'yeats country', 'modern ireland,' 'ar­chaeiogical tour of the west of ireland', sponsoredby celtic society, free, library auditorium 
7:00pm-discussion, great books discussion group, room 105, made leva 
8:00pm. concert, woody nerman and his orchestra, sponsored by michiana friends of jazz, o'laughlin auditorium 

at nd-smc: 
\. 
THE ND-SMC THEATRE 
TRYOUTS-October 15 and 16 at 7 P.M. 
Jean Anouilh's THIEVES' CARNIVAL 
WASHINGTON HALL (NOTRE DAME) (use back entrance) 
(Information on tryouts may be obtained from Speech and Drama Department office, Room 110, Moreau Hall, St. Mary's) 
CALLBACKS -October 17 OPEN TO ALL ND-SMC STUDENTS 
Dave Brubeck Quartet featuring Gerry Mulligan with Alan Dawson and Jack Six 
PLUS SECOND GENERATION BRUBECK DARIUS, CHRIS AND DAN 
Thursday begins after the last class. Elco Theater, Elkhart October 17th, 8:00 pmStudents are due back Adults $4.00, Students 2.50 
Tickets at Tempi ins, Soundmasters, Suspended Chord, Truth Reader Service, at the Door

Tuesday morning. 
r ~ 1 1 I I .'
'r .. 


------------------------~------------------------~~--­
Tuesday, October 16, 1973 the observer 
~Never betrayed public trusf 
1n
Agnew denies guilt • farewell speech 
president guilty of the "appear­
ance of wrong doing." 
He said he decided not to 
contest the income tax evasion 



Impeachment proceedings 
• f R b k d dcharge "the
because appear­
agaJnS y arczy roppe ance of wrongdoing .. .is fatal. to 
any man who must at any hme 
be ready to step into the office We have been living in an extremely crowded forced triple in Stanford of the presidency." Hall for almost a month. Of course, there are inconveniences, but our "From time to time I made
by Board of Commisioners 
By MIKE FEINSILBER WASHINGTON (UPI) -Spiro 

T. Agnew told the nation Monday night that he had been the object of "scurrilous and inaccurate" reports and "wild­est rumor and speculation" that led to his resignation as vice president. He again denied wrongdoing. 
"I don't want to spend these last moments with you in a paroxism of bitterness," the former vice president said in a national television address on the three major networks. 
But he said he had been the victim of news leaks, inaccu­rate reporting and testimony of witnesses who had been pro­mised immunity for their 
he considered himself primarily

arrested for theft of truck ­
statements. 
Agnew said he had been determined "until a few days ago" to fight the charges and had been encouraged by an "outpouring of support" from across the country. 
But he said, "after hard deliberation and much prayer," he had concluded it would be best for himself, his family and the country to step down. 
The former vice president, his voice hoarse, said he was fully aware that his plea of nolo contendere-no contest-to the income tax charge is "equiva­lent to a plea of guilty." 
"But it does not represent a confession of any guilt whatso­ever for any other purpose," Agnew said. 

main complaint is that we still do not have any bookshelves. This is a problem because unfortunately, we do have some books. We have· books on the floor, under the beds, in the sink, on the windowsill, and in the wastebaskets. I am getting tired of tripping over books on my way to the bathroom every morning. We've talked to our maid, the janitor, our section leader, the RA, the Hall President, and the Assistant Rector.No one does anything. Please, Action Express, help us to get our bookshelves so I can brush my teeth. After a bit of confusion, it was determined that there is a procedure to follow when seeking assistance in getting one's room set straight. The first step is to have the room's residents get in touch with their hall clerk. (yes, there is one in every hall>. Secondly, after having a work order sheet designating the extent of your need filled out, you or your clerk should proceed to obtain your Rector's OK. With this secured, it should be forwarded to Housing (8491) in care of the Student Affairs Office located on the 3rd floor of the Administration Building. From there, it should be quickly directed to its final destination which in most cases is maintenance. Lastly, it might be wise to remember that if the room's residents are responsible for the problem especially if it is a matter of damaged property that their accounts will be (you guessed it ) billed accordingly. Having checked your case out, it seems there is some sort of holdup in Housing in getting your request to its final destination. One can only hope that this was due to oversight and not inefficiency on Housing's part. 
Who is in charge of the New Jersey Club? 
The gentleman you seek goes by the name of Tom Huddes and lives at 820 Notre Dame Avenue. He can be reached by phone at 232-6963. 
How can I get some information about the Pre-Med Club? 
Your best bet is to call Tom Kron at 7947 or to catch him in his room which is located in Lyons (325). 
What hot shot is acting as HPC Executive Co-ordinator this year? 
Sorry to say but the guy who isExecutive Co-ordinator for the HPC is no hot shot. In fact, he's probably one of the better honchos around here. His name is Pat Laughlin and if you need a character reference just talk to residents in Pangborn Hall. 
Is Guy Randles in charge of the AL Student Advisory Council? 
To the best of our knowledge yes, he is. If you have any questions concerning the Council's role it might be advisable to get in touch with Guy at 233-7642. 

Notre Dame student 
by Kurt Heinz Staff Reporter 
A Notre Dame student is free on bond today in connection with the alleged theft of a pickup truck in South Bend last Friday. 
He is expected to be charged formally early this week, ac­cording to Notre Dame Security Chief Arthur Pears. Pears had no other comement on the case. 
The truck , which belonged to a city police officer, was reported missing form the corner of Notre Dame and Howard where the of­ficer had left it.. 

responsible to his commissioners The student was arrested in his so that they would serve the dormitory after he had aroused the 
students in the best possible way. suspicions of the main gate security officer when he tried to When the point of attitude arose drive a truck on campus. The the "trail procedures" turned into guard phoned South Bend police a discussion of compromises. The after .refusing to allow the vehicle Board concluded that the biggest on campus. problem was communications Police found the truck, a 1966 between Student Union and Chevrolet pickup, in the stadium Student Government. parking lot with the ignition For the purpose of com­stripped. munication the Board established The student was held downton a Board of Student Union-student and later released on bond. Crin­Government Directors. This 
m inal charges are likely to be Board will consist of the Student brought against the student with in Body President, S.B. Vice the next two days. President, S.B. Treasurer, Student charge was "not an admission of guilt but a plea of no contest, done to quell the raging storm." 
Agnew,  looking  grim  and  
weakened,  said  his  plea  in  
Baltimore  on  the  income  tax  

And he said his remark in Los Angeles several days before he resigned that he would not quit the vice presidency was a "tormented verbal assertion." 
He said he had decided to resign because he did not want to jeopardize the national security at "this especially critical time, with the world torn by war in the Middle East." 
Agnew, who pleaded no contest to one count of income 
by R. Thomas Thues Staff Reporter 

Impeachment procedings against Student Union Director Jim Rybarczyk were dropped yesterday eveining at a meeting of the Student Body Board of Com­missioners. 
The Board met in private session to discuss Rybarczyk's possible dismissal. The grounds for im­peachment, a result of the recent Southern Cal. ticket controversy, were defined as "dereliction of duty." After numerous charges were voiced in private session the meeting was opened to Rybarczyk' 
The reason for the Board's impeachment charge was based on "a culmination of events from the past year." The various com­missioners proceded to charge Rybarczyk with mismanagement, failure to cooperate with Student Government, placing Student Union above the students, and a 
general  attitude  leading  to  the  
above problems.  
Rybarczyk's  answer  to  the  
charge  of  mismanagement  was  

that his commissioners were directly responsible for Student Union activities. He added that most problems arose because of poorly ctefinea precedent and time limitations. 
Rybarczyk attributed his failure to cooperate with Student Government to a communications gap. After the meeting he added, "I think the meeting was good because it aired a lot of problesm. Discussing the problems solved a lot of communication problems." 
Citing the October 4 article in the Observer, Rybarczyk said that his lyalty to Student Union was quoted out of context. As Director he said tax evasion and resigned as vice president last Wednesday, said developments of the federal grand jury investigating him has been "improperly and unconsionably leaked in detail 

to the news media." 
He said some of the news stories were "the wildest kind of rumor and speculation." 
"All this has been done with 
the knowledge that it was 
prejudicial to my civil rights," 
Agnew said. 
He said that "some of the 
most prestigious" of the news 
media had "published every 
leak they could get their hands 
on." 
Agnew said "I have never enriched myself by betrayal of 
public denials of those scurri-Union Director, s.u. Associate lous and inaccurate reports Director, s.u. Controller, and the and, challenged the credibility Director of Student Activities. of their sources," Agnew said. Studen Body President Dennis "I have consistently renewed Etienne said that "this was a th?,se denials," he said. . better way." He added that "once ~ repeat and e~nph~~~z.e th,~t communications are improved we --demal of wrongdomg ,um.ght. can all work together to serve the Agnew spo~e for 21 mmutes, students." and ended ~1th the~e ~ords and a small smde on h1s hps: "Thank you, good night, and
"I think a lot of good came fo 
farewell."
these procedings. I just want to get 
the Student Union back on its feet after this two week dormant period," commented Rybarczyk. 
Etienne also said that all resignations submitted by Student Union Personnel would be con­sidered void. He expressed a desire to continue normal operations. 
When asked how Student Union 
commissioners stood concerning 
the procedings, Associate Director 
Ken Muth said that all Student 
Union personnel would continue 
thier work as usual. 
"It was a time of cooling off and 
working things out," said Muth. 
Parachuting Instruction 
Your first jump course takes only 3 hours. 
World's largest and sales•. 
Our 15th year. 
Over 220,000 jumps. 
21 ,000 First jumps. 
Free brochure. 
PARACHUTES INC.; CRAWFORDSVILLE CENTER RR No. 7, Municipal Airport Crawfordsvilll, Indiana 47933 Pbon1: 317-362-82S3 




TICKETS 
FOR THE HOMECOMING PARTY VVILL BE ON SALE ALL WEEK IN THE DINING HALLS 
the theme is a 
BARN DANCE 
dress will be the "country look" (jeans, overalls,,____,_ etc.) 
. 

$6.00 per couple Y'ALL COME NOW, Y'HEAR? 
the public trust," and added that his net worth, "less than $200,000," was not high for a person of his age and standing. "My standard of living has 
been  demonstrably  modest,"  he  
said.  
He  attacked  the credibility of  

his accusers before the grand jury, asking what made them believable when they were self­confessed bribers and when they had been "encouraged to accuse others to lessen their own punishment." 
"I am fully aware that the nolo contendere was a plea of guilty," in the particular legal circumstances he faced, he said, but he added that "it does not represent a confession of guilt in any way." 
He said he decided not to contest the income tax evasion charge because the nation could not afford to have a vice 
Stepan Center ·Fri., Oct. 26 
9:00 p.m. ·1 :OOa.m. 
dinner rock band 


Windjammer 


U.S.O. 
has been slurred, or that the 

Child Health Care Center at 
football team representing that 

Memorial Hospital 
school has been slurred. 

Child Health Care Center at St. 
Greg Corgan is a junior. He now 

Joseph's Hospital 
lives in New Jersey, but he spend 

Mental Health Association (in­
his high school years in New 

cludes Mental Health After-Care) 
Mexico--and, while there, acquired 

I believe that the work of each of a taste for the life style indigenous these agencies is compatible in to that region. every way with a Christian con­Nor was Mr. Corgan's column a science. totally emotional, half-cocked 
Sincerely yours, effort. It was prepared after a good bit of research, and after
James L. Massey 
conversation with the players and

Friemann Professor 
the photographer mentioned. It was also proof-read by several

Corgan's Column persons, including myself--and and stories are constantly October 3 letter that I sent to all point that out because I am a life­changing, making it highly Notre Dame students in my long resident of Richmond, Va.,
Dear Editor:
probable that the name of an in­capacity as General Chairman for and saw little Civil War-type nocent party could be slandered. the 1973 Notre Dame United Way I don-t know where Greg Corgan vindictiveness in the column. Secondly, Macheca needs to use campaign, which said in part: "I is from; it really doesn't matter. What I did see was a frank and the tool of secrecy if he is going to have made a moral decision not to But until I read his column in accurate appraisal of the treat­be able to find out anything from give to UW this year, although I Monday's Observer I thought that ment Notre Dame's football team anybody. Who is going to admit have given my 'fair share' for his kind of regional vindictiveness received from Rice coach AI anything to Macheca if there is the years ... The reason is that many had died with the Civil War. I was Conover, his players, and the slightest chance that it will be UW agencies support immoral angered by his column at first, but school's band. And it's not, Mr. broadcasted to the entire student <abortion, ect.) atrocities ... " later I realized I was only hurt; not James, the first time the Irish have body'? You state in your editorial Since I cannot reply directly to because of the unfairness of one received such treatment at the that police records and court the writer, I hope to reach him and columnist, but because it showed hands of a deep-Southern host results are matters of public others with a similar concern . an attitude that is common here. (witness Georgia Tech in '69 and record. In many cases the names through this letter. No United Way It is hard. enough to live down LSU in '71).of the informers are also made agency funds, staffs or houses stereotypes, simply because they One final comment. Ara's public. Obviously, under NO family planning clinics or pays for are so well established. But it is statement about Catholics, Blacks, circumstances would the names of abortions. May I take this op­particularly frustrating when they and Armenians wasn't offered in the informers on the Notre Dame portunity to list the agencies are sanctioned by the head football complete seriousness. It was of­campus be released. It is apparent receiving support from the United coach and the school newspaper. fered after Thursday's practice in then that our situation is definitely Way of St. Joseph County They I have always respected Ara an effort to relax the Irish team. not analagous to the "public cir­are: Parsegian. He is obviously a very And, as coach Conover's Owls cle." fine man, as well as a great foot­found out on Saturday eveing, it 
Finally, contrary to another American National Red Cross ball coach. That is why it is so had exactly that effect. A ra is a statement in the editorial, every Catholic Social Service hard to believe that he was quoted man who appreciates class, and student does NOT have a right to Goodwill Industries correctly in the column. However, his type of class does not include know the details of what is going on Circle of Mercy Day Nursery if that quote is correct, I don't using "hate" to psyche up his as the present situation touches Council for the Retarded think I need to be melodramatic by football team. only a very small minority of the Legal Aid Society demanding an apology. Senator 
students here. Family & Children's Center Inouye put it perfectly when he Sincerely,
Fear and paranoia may be the Hearing & Speech Center said, "The statement speaks for Vic Dorr results of secrecy of the present Salvation Army of Mishawaka itself." What I can say is that in proceedings, but even worse is the Salvation Army of South Bend March when Parsegian received a student who secretly slithers into Mental Health Center standing ovation from the Houston Poor Baby?Macheca 's office to rid his United Health Foundation Notre Dame Club, he neglected to Christian conscience of any Cancer Society tell them that Texans hate Editor: hearS!lY knowledge of the actions Arthritis Foundation Catholics, Blacks, and Armenians. I would like to offer my sym­of the freak across the hall. Crippled Children's Society I'm sure they would have been pathies to Mike Welby in Thur­
(name withheld by request) Visiting Nurse Association interested to know. sday's Observer, Mr. Welby gave Boy Scouts of America If anyone had bothered to read the impression of just beingGirl Scouts any Houston newspapers (the Post dumped by a Notre Dame Camp Fire Girls, Mishawaka is in the library) in the weeks Student; poor baby! 
United Way YMCACamp Fire Girls, before the Rice game, they would I would also like to extend myMishawaka YWCA have seen nothing but praise for 
sympathy to the Observer in light

R.E.A.L. Services (Resources for Notre Dame's football team. Last 
of the people whose judgments

Dear Editor: the Enrichment of Adult Living) 
week, one localcolumnist actually allow such insulting, unjounalistic, I received an unsigned letter Urban League of South Bend wrote an emotional history of self-indulgent drivel to appear in
today, written in the margin of the Hansel Center Notre Dame football, one that 
their papaer. Perhaps my

would have been worthy of even association with publications in the most sentimental Observer high school made me too con­
sportswriter. There was never any scientious, but Mr. Welby's un­hate or ill feeling. Fifty thousand provoked reference to ND Houstonians turned out in the rain 
"wallflowers" strikes me as the 

to see the mighty Fighting Irish of type of worthless trash that tends Notre Dame. Since Rice· hasn't 
to negate all the good things the 

been able to fill their own stadium Observer does. in years it should be obvious that the fans came to see Notre Dame, 
Sincerely,not Rice. 

Laureen Goers 

I can't justify the actions of the Rice football team during the game. I wasn't there. But I resent Corgan's attempt to equate Rice's Letters Policybehavior with some outdated stereotypes. He isn't being fair to 
Letters to the Editor must bethe people of Texas. 

typed and double-spaced. All 

Stephen James letters must be signed and an address must be given with them. Names will be withheld upon 
Editor's Note: request. Letters should be no more than two typewritten pages and
It's always easy to be defensive 
are subject to editing for length

when one feels one's home town, 
requirements. The letters can bestate, or region has been slurred; 

addressed to: Letters to the

but it's aslo easy to be defensive 
Editor, The Observer, Box Q,when one feels that one's school 

Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 



,arrytrudeau 
the observer 

Fearand Loathing 
Editor: 
Your first statement was correct, there IS something really wrong at the famed "Christian Comnunity" of Notre Dame. But to blame it all on the silence of John Macheca and the "involved students" is an immature, thoughtless way out of the situation of not having a news story on one of the biggest stories around. 
How can you expect the ~tudent "victims" to talk? They are already up against the possibility of expulsion from school and the last thing they need is to further incriminate themselves and to further agitate Macheca who is presently considering their case. And furthermore, one can never tell with what prejudice his professors may react when his name appears in newsprint associated with drugs. In yesterdays editorial you state: "We do not intend to damage the reputation of any student and we will not." At Notre Dame it is particularly hard to get away with a statement like this simply because here (as opposed to a typical university) drugs are not household words and the naivete of most students is overwhelming. Thus, the social stigma attached to being a "possible drug pusher" could be devestating. 
And as for the silence of Dean of 
Students John Macheca, his 
reasons should be obvious. First 
and foremost is the protection of 
the students name. In cases where 
drugs are the main subject, names 
daa 


8AO N&WS, 6EN7S! 
1HE5£ HER£ AR£ ACAO£M/C5 WARNING t-15TS FROM THE O£AN. 
~------------------~ 

~ 1H£ FOU•.OWING P/.AY~S AR£ INE/..1618/..E 
WHA1!?
RICAR!JO ROSE; 
"SPIKE." 80NENBl/R6ERJ

FO!<. FOOTBA/..1.. 01/E TO 
NOT
JEFFY OAVISJ M!0-7£RM 

l/NSATISFACTORY 
POS51BL.E!
ANl?... B.P.I 
GRA0£5." 
I
\
I 

Night Editor: Robert Baker Ass't. Night Editor: Tim O'Reiley Layout: Tom O'Neil Day Editors: Tom Bundy and Msrlene Zloza Picture Screener: Jerome 
Compugraphic: Michael Goetz 
Typists: Connie Fourre, Howard Halle, Barb Norcross, Phil Orscheln 
Copy Editor: Marlene Zloza 
Sports: Greg Corgan and Peggy Lawlor 
Piua Waitress: Lucille 
Escort: AI Sam 
Night Controller: John Flannigan 
-----------------------------------------~--­Tuesday, Oct~ber 16, 1973 the observer 
5 






thrills, spills and chills 
ann mccarry and miles mccarry 
Children of all ages! In a rush of rousing rhythm and a splash of stunning splendor, the 103rd edition of Ringling Brothers and Brarnum and Bailey Circus excitingly explodes into a chariotful of thrills and spills at Chicago's International Ampitheatre through October 22nd. 
Still far and away the "greatest show on earth" the circus, minute -for-minute and dollar-for-dollar, is the incomparable champion of the entertainment world. 
thunder and blazes 
There's razzle-dazzle! There's color! There'spageantry! There's music andthat ranges all the way from the blaring brassiness of "Thunder and Blazes" to the hot-buttered soul of "Shaft" to the subtle strains of Beethoven's Ninth Symphony. ANd it provides a background for literally hundreds of happy athletes smilingly risking their lives two or three times a day with a verve that would have made the gladiators of Rome green with envy. 
blond dynamite 
There's Gunther Gebel-Williams, everywhere you look there's Gunther B­Gebel-Williams-the blond dynamo of the show! From the opening spectacle when he pilots a chariot drwawn by two lunging gray chargers with nostrils flaring around the hippodrome track to the fanastic finale when he circles the ring astride an uncaged royal Benagal tiger which in turn stands on the broad back of an enormous, fiercely tusked elephant, he is omnipresent and omnipotent. 
If there ever was a superstar, Gunther Gebel-Williams is it! No other performer can duplicate the ability of this classically blond, German animal trainer ex-
At a time when some alumni believe Notre Dame is headed for perdiition, the largest group of men in eight years has entered the seminary of the Holy Cross Fathers here. 
Twenty one new men are studying at MoreauSeminary and St. Joseph hall, in­cluding nine college graduate and 12 un­dergraduates. Of the total, eight are from Notre Dame two undergraduates, four men from the 1973 graduation class, and two graduates of recent years. 
The numbers certainly are not over­whelming. But they definitely represent an upswing from the late '60s when vocations to the priesthood nosedived here and elsewhere. Furthermore they seem to show a change in attitude among many students, who are less likely now to think of the priesthood as "irrelevant" and a waste of one's talents. 
Says Fr. James Schwartz, vocation 
director of the CSC's: 
"It is probably too early to tell whether or 
not this increase means a possible upswing 
Coming down of 2001: A Space Odyssey, Arthur Clarke is in a fairly bad position for any author or artist. Having spend four years producing a masterpiece, he has to find some way to follow up; and how do you follow up a masterpiece? 
In Rendezvous With Rama, Clarke makes a valiant effort, but in the wrong direction: he tries to copy the basic structure of 2001. The same faceless characters are present, overwhelmed by the enormity of the Unknown and by the Adventure of Space. Pseudo-symbols abound as Clarke takes his characters through their paces, doing equally semi-symbolic actions. 
The setting is different, granded; perhaps 
even more suited to the movie screen than 
the comparatively dull settings aboard the 
Ooe;covery in 2001. Rama of the title is a 
great cylindrical ship of mysterious origin 
that is tracked as a meteor through the solar 
'· 

traordinaire. Handling horses, elephants, and tigers, sometimes all in the same :ing, he is even more than "the greatest ctrcus star ever! " 
As one hardened circus-type put it,"You can almost imagine the guy taking off into the jungle with his elephants, or his tigers, and living happily ever after! " 
So over-powering is the glamor of Gunther 
that even Elvin Bale, one of the elite few 
trapezists in circus history to master the 
suicidal forward heel catch, is dwarfed into 
a secondary role. Bale, like several other 
RBB&B performers, wou,d be the headlined 
star in almost any other circus on earth. 
There are more stars in RBB&B than in 
the Milky Way. Among the spectacular 
stellars is Jeanette Williams, one of the 
world's greatest horsewomen, who com ­
mands twelve Lippizan liberty horses in 
graceful, capricious choregraphy which 
rivals the Royal Ballet. 
Wolfgang Holzmain daily faces a cageful 
of ferocious kings of the jungle, finishing his 
act with the phenomenal head-in-the-mouth 
tirick. 
Meanwhile, over htis cage of roaring 
carnivours, Pio Nock, a Swiss gentle clown 
in his early 60's, rides a bicycle back and 
forth on a tightrope. 
Vickel's cycle 

On another high wire, this one suspended at a 45 degree angle, a daredevil named Vickel zoo01s his stratocycle at top speed, while his trusting wife travels with him on a swing dangling below the wire. She hangs on gamely, too, when Vickel starts twirling the whole apparatus, motorcycle, trapeze and all clock-wise around the wire, all at least one hundrPrl feet above the arena floor. 
,, 

in the number of vocations and whether or 
not the number of college graduates ap­
plying indicates a new trend. Nevertheless, 
there is some room and reasonf for hope." 
More important than the "numbers game", of course, is the type of person who is being attracted to the priesthood,. Sch­wartz is impressed by the personal depth and self-awareness of the prospects. 
"They really seem to know who they are," he says. "Their question is whether this particular ovocation is what they want or not." 
Two other characteristics of the 
newcomers impress Schwartz -their 
orientation toward service of others and 
their orientation twoward prayer. 
"Though the candidates that come to Holy Cross hall from all parts of the country and come with various backgrounds," he says, "what seems common to all of them is a real sense oof prayer and a strong desire to serve people." 
For example, at their own request the undergraduates at St. Joseph hall r­frequently pray together for half an hour at 

There's more--muc more--· like simultaneous triple sommersaults by two troupes of flying trapze artists, fourteen trained elephants, a mischievious bunch of clowns -all framed against flamboyantly beautiful choreographed production numbers. 
new trend 1n an old career 
fr. thomas mcnally 
How about the future? Schwartz refuses to speculate on whether the number of seminarians will continue to increase. Perhaps, as another vocation director said recently, religious life is going to prosper not t by numbers but by intensity. In any event, Schwartz is certain that there will alsways be a number of men at Notre Dame and elsewhere who will see the priesthood as a good way to spend their lives. Until it is was discontinued two years ago, he pointed out, a questionnaire given incoming freshmen at Notre Dame usually turned up 60 to 90 men 
who were interested in a religious vocation and wanted to talk to someone about it. 
Schwartz says, "only a few them actually entered religious life evenutually. But a basic interest was present, and I'm sure that the same interest is present in many people on campus today. I'm hoping that men who feel this way make time for prayer night and usually everyone is present. 
What concerns do men bring with them when they enter the seminary nowadays? One is an anxiety about the "total com­mitment" which the life requires. 
"Some of them think they have to make a decision right now which binds them for the rest of their life," says Schwartz. "Ob­viously this isn't true-they have plenty of time to decide whether the life is for them or not. But I think society 1'uts them in this bind by its demand that you g people 'move right along' toward some goal, without any time for thought or reflection." 
THe other main concern forperspective priests is celibacy. Undoubtedly many outstanding men abandon the idea of a vocation because of the Church'' insistence on celibacy. And the concern is certainly present among the men who decide, nevertheless, to enter the seminary. Giving up the people joys of married life and family 
is a considerable sacrifice ofor most. The yl and reflection about their future; and I hope 
are willing to make it because they hope that celibacy will free them to help others 
more. 



rendezvous with ramo 
system. When men discover that Rama behaves rather oddly and that it is an ar­tificial construct, they dispatch a single ship <the only one that could reach it in time) to investigate. 
Most of the rest of the book is a description of that ship's crew's exploration of the in­side of hollow Rama, which turns out to be an entire closed ecology. At the same time, Clarke tells of the political reaction to Rama (implication of extraterrestrial intelligence more technically advanced, etc.) and what he thinks the standard humna reaction to Rama would be. 
The most significant part of Rama is Rama itself. The reader is literally dren­ched in the atmosphere and feeling of this immense, hollow world, complete with ocean, plains, artificial sun, and mountains. Rama becomes a very real thing in the hands of the author that produced the in­tricacies of HAL and the dissolution of the Earth in Childhood's End. 
But here is where he fails: the im­menseness of Rama overshadows everything else. This produces the faceless characters mentioned above. The presee ce of so many characters also tends to bog the reader down and individual per­sonalities, which have even more potential than thosee in Childhood's End, are lost in the mess. And what's worsee, Clarke himself seems to realizee this about the middle of the book and tries to focus on the characters more than Rama. But by then, his cause is pretty much lost. Rama has become oo much and overwhelms eeven him. 
Finally the eending is the most disap­pointing of all. I won't ruin it by telling what the crew discovers about Rarna, but I will say that it is the same disappointment I felt 
As my room ate siad, not onc3e but at least eleven times, "If I wasn't seeing it, I'd never believe it!" 
As previously noted, Ringling Brothers and Barnum and Bailey Circus, is the greatest, the very greatest show on earth!! 
that they will see someone who can help them weigh the pros and cons of their op­tions." 
joseph abel/ 

when I finished Michael Crichton's An­dromeda Strain. 
Arthur Clarke will remain one of the great science-fiction writers of all time, even if he does nothing more for the rest of his life. Rendezvous With Rama shows his power with works in his creation of the very vivid Rama, as he produced the equally vivid 2001: A Space Odyssey. But his fascination with symbols and mysterious things while ignoring simple things like characterization might lead him in a direction that could be detrimental. I, for one, hope he doesn't take that path. 
Rendezvous With Rama 
Arthur C. Clarke 
Harcourt, Brace Jovanovich, Inc., New 
York 303 pp. 
Tuesday, October 16, 1973
the observer

6 
GSU pres. clarifies reaction to proposals 
By Gary Allietta Staff Reporter 

Problems and proposals'raised by Bill Lavage at Friday's Student Affairs Committee meeting met with mild disagreement on campus Monday. Lavage, President of the Graduate Student Union, was his own biggest critic, however. 
"I left the impression of com­plaining," Lavage said, ''when all I was doing was planning my agenda for the coming year." His main concerns were graduate athletic tickets, insurance, housing, and social gathering places. 
In referring to athletic tickets, Lavage pointed out that a student must pay more for his spouse's ticket than his own. Also, he said, all married students, whether grad 
Casino d'Alumni 
or undergrad, get end zone or end court seats. He feels this practice of discriminating against the married students is unfair. 
Don Bouffard, ticket manager at the ACC, contended that if non­student spouses were given tickets according to their spouses' class, they would be displacing a student. 
Also, referring to the discount rate offered to non-student ticket holders, he pointed out that a married student paid $29.50 for two season basketball tickets, while a· non-student paid $38 for two. 
In regard to the graduate student's stating that he was denied admittance to a game with his five month old child, Bouffard mentioned that "the physical well­being of the baby is endangered by bringing it to the game in the first place." 
Lavage's biggerst concern was the lack of a social center for grad students. He feels that "grad students always perceived the LaFortune center as an un­dergraduate operation." Besides, added Lavage, LaFortune by necessity, is run according to University regualtions governing undergraduates. For a graduate function to be held there, using a different set of guidelines, would be impractical. 
Only Carrol and Lewis halls are now available for graduate party use, according to Lavage, but the fact that they are residence halls also makes them impractical Lack of a gathering area presented 
another problem, said Lavage. 
"There is no readily accessible 
place to obtain The Observer, the 
main source of campus news. 

Alumni tries new-party idea 
by Jeanne Murphy Staff Reporter 

Club Casino d' Alumni celebrated its gala premier last Saturday night in the Alumni Lounge. This mock gambling party, promoted by Gilbert Garcia, was a major breakthrough in the traditional hall party concept. 
Two-hundred twenty-five tickets were sold in advance at $1.50 and entitled each visitor to play black jack, roulette, dice, wheels, and poker. These games were played with fake money called "sheckles." When a player's sheckles ran out, he was given more to last until the end of the party. 
The purpose of the party "was to get the hall together," claimed Garcia. He estimated that more than one-half of the hall par­ticipated and showed an interest in the Casino. 
According to Garcia, the aim of the party was to have fun. "Everyone had a good time. That was what we wanted. The party was not for profit," he said. The atmosphere was more relaxed at the Casino because it was a dif­ferent idea and not the ordinary Notre Dame hall party, Garcia stated. 
Because the Casino was not a 

Inflation causes costs at Camp David to quadruple 
WASHINGTON CUPI) Annual military operating costs for Camp David during President Nixon's use of the Maryland mountain top retreat are more than four times what they were under President Lyndon B. Johnson, a Pentagon official testified Monday. 
Don R. Brazier, deputy assistant secretary of defense, told the House government activities subcommittee it cost taxpayers $640,000 to maintain and operate . Camp David during the 1973 fiscal year, compared to $147,000 in 1968, the last year Johnson used the facility. 
Another Pentagon official, Col. Lawrence Adams, told the sub­committee inflation was respon­sible for much of the increase in overall military spending for presidential security. In addition, he said the Pentagon was buying and using "more sophiscated material" for its security operations. 
I .. Brazier, Adams and four other military officials testified before the subcommittee which is holding hearings on government spending for presidential: security. Adams, in charge of the White House communications agency, said the Defense Department spent $3.5 million for commumcations installations and other support facilities to protect Johnson. He estimated $5.9 miillion was spent 
The,figures represented Army, Navy, Air Force ami 1Vlarine costs for various military installations used by Johnson and Nixon aw:ay from the White House. 
Brazier said Camp David operating costs during Johnson's years in office ranged from $118,000 a year to $148,000 an­nually. The costs of the retreat 1under Nixon, ranged from $136,000 in 1969 to $640,000 for the 1973 fiscal year. 
TAKE THE GREYHOUND TO CHICAGO FOR BREAK 
A Grey hound wi II go non­s top from the circle to Chicago THURSDAY AT 3:55 
Two buses return on Monday night. Call Tom Boyer 272-1807 
or information 
money-making game all the money received from the ticket sales went towards purchasing prizes. At 11:45 p.m. prizes such as an AM-FM digital clock radio, a bar set, and games were auctioned off. 
Dean of Students John Macheca was present at the party for a while and seemed to enjoy it, claimed Garcia. This Casino was the first Alumni hall party since the new party guidelines were established. Although a spiked punch was served, Garcia stated that liquor was secondary to the general aim of the party. 
The Rector of Alumni, Brother Paczesny assisted in the party preparations. "He okayed the party and helped get things together," Garcia said. 
The Casino received a lot of response from St. Mary's, Garcia stated. At least 50-60 St. Mary's girls attended. But the party was not very popular among the Notre Dame girls, Garcia added regretfully. 
In the future, Garcia would like to set up other parties but of a different style, such as a "keeno night." He feels that it is difficult to have the same kind of parties constantly because the students tend to compare the parties rather than enjoy each one individually. 

Without information, a close knit 
graduate group is impossible to 
maintain." 
Graduate students missed their chance to have a gathering place, maintains Bob Ackerman, director of staff development for the student affairs office. A GSU representative should have con­tacted the planning commission for the LaFortune renovation, instead of requesting space through the Board of Trustees, contended Ackerman. 
In referring to the advantages the undergrads have over grads, Ackerman noted that "the graduate school is not as large as the undergrad school-Notre Dame is primarily an undergraduate school." 
In Ackerman's opinion, the parietals prpeared by a graduate board for the graduate students are more restricitive than those for undergrads. He also feels the split between graduate and law students, and the disunity among grads in general, is detrimental to the post-graduate system as a whole. 
Lavage basically agreed with Ackerman's comments. However, he thinks that by creating a social center and more on-campus graduate housing, that unity my be restored. "Grad students are too spread out. . .it's hard to establish programs and bring students 
together," he said. 
Presently, less than 25 per cent of graduate students live on campus, noted Lavage. Only 376 openings are available for over 1600 graduate and law students,· including 108 university village apartments. Most of these' vacancies are filled by mid-July so that any person applying after that, has nor room, he said. 
Insurance is a concern more for off-campus students, but because nearly 90 per cent of grads are off, it becomes a significant problem. Graduates are eleigible under the undergrad policy but only for infirmary treatme~t. They are not eligible under the university policy unless they are part of the faculty. Therefore, for non-teaching off­campus grads, there is no in­surance available. 
Lavage noted that most married students could not get insurance for less than $400 a year for minimum coverage. For slightly more, with group coverage such as the university could provide, students <:ould get greater protection. 
Lavage felt that his ideas were received with detachment at Friday's meeting. However, he added "If the administration cooperates, the GSU will do all it can to alleviate the problems." 

Hairstyling•••with style 
+Award Winning Stylists +Unique Atmosphere
+Roffler Styling and Products 


KEN'S DEN 
First Floor, 100 Center Mishawaka, Indiana Appointments Prefered, 255-6500 

SKI ASPEN JAN. 5-12 
lodging and lifts -$120 Notre Dame Ski Club Tuesday (Oct. 16) 7 p.m. 1C Lafortune or call 6575 or 1628 
THE CULTURAL ARTS COMMISSION'S DANCE & DRAMA SERIES presents 
The National Players in Leo Brady's adaptation of Dostoyevsky's 


CRIME AND PUNISHMENT 
Tuesday, October 23, 1973 8:00 p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium (SIV\C) admission: $3.0'9 
***PATRONS FREE*** 

tickets will be on sale at the student union ticket office and at the door 


--------------------~--------~---~ -~---~-~--~ 
Tuesday, October 16, 1973 the observer 
7 

Campus briefs ••• 
Notre Dame recieves 
Kodak aid grant 
The University of Notre Dame . has received an unrestricted grant • of $12,750 under Eastman Kodak jCompany's 1973 Educational Aid 
Program. The direct gift is based on the number of graduates who joined Kodak within five year~ of graduation and are currently. in their fifth year of employment. 
Notre Dame is among 123 four­
year privately supported colleges 
and universities sharing $3.5 
million this year and more than $35 
million in the last decade. The 
company contributes $750 for each 
academic year, undergraduate or 
graduate, completed at a privately 
supported school. 
The contributions, according to 
company leaders, are a 
recognition of the growing 
financial demands of institiutions 
of higher education and the need of 
society for the skills and talents of 
the graduates of these institutions. 
Biblia Sacra copy 
given to library 
A deluxe reprinting of the Vulgate edition of Biblia Sacra has been presented to the rare book collection of the Memorial Library at the University of Notre Dame by a .south Bend businessman who asked to remain anonymous. The gift has been valued at $3,500. 
Illustrated by Salvatore Dali, the 
limited edition is bound in 
natural Kairas goat leather and 
ornamented in gold. The text is 
printed on handmade paper, watermarked with the monogram of the artist. 
Illustrations are printed on thin, handmade pasteboard and each is protected by a thin layer of Japanese paper on the cover 
of the illustration, two quotations 
from Holy Scripture, is reprinted The flyleafs and the covering for 
. the individual boxes that hold the volumes are made of ivory color­ed silk moire. 
CAC season tickets on sale now 
Representatives of the Cultural Arts Commission will be selling season tickets today and Wed­nesday in both dining halls dining halls for the CAC Dance and Drama series. The tickets are $8.00 and will cover to cost of all eleven Cultural Arts events. Tickets can also be purchased at the Student Union ticket office in LaFortune Student Center. 
Church to be site 

of amnesty forum 
Sunnyside Presbyterian Church, ll5 S. Francis Street, South Bend will be the scene for a forum on Amnesty to be held Monday, Oc­tober 22 from 7:30 to 9:30 pm, sponsored by the United Religious Community of South Bend. A film entitled "Perspectives on Am­nesty" will be shown. 
Rev. Leonard Stark of the Church of the Brethren, Nappanee, and Mr. Bruce Bon Durant, a South Bend Attorney will present two viewpoints of the amnesty question. Following this presentation there will be an op­portunity for small groull 
PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Main Building 
INTERVIEWS FOR WEEK OF OCTOBER 23 

Interviews '""' for seniors and graduate students. Sir,n·up schedules arn in Room 207, Main Building, except t~w Scf-tonl• which are in O'Shaughnessy Hall. Interview times m•tst he 9elected and slp,n<'d. for in person. 1-iours are 8 :'lO o .m tc• 
5 :00 p.m., HondJty tht"u Friday. The Placement MRnuP1 P.~ ves additio,al information regarding interviews and proce~·•• pq. 
0CT. 2:1 
OCT. 24 
OCT. 25 
OCT. 25/2f> 
OCT. 21) 
!Jatholic University of America -~.!.'!~ of Law. AIT"'j'i;'terested students. 
[~Bendi~. Corporation. Bin M.E., E.E., M.E.i.O. BBA in Acct. MBA with Acct. background. JD. Deputment of the Navy. B,M in A.E., C.E., M.E., E.E., Met. Hooker Chemical Corporation. B,M in Ch.E. and Comp.Sci. 1l fn Chpr.:. 
Whatton Graduate Division -Grad. S~.h~l_l~~· All interested etudE'nts. Magnavox Company. R in F..E. anrl M.E. BBA in Acct. Union ~amp Corporation. 
B.H.D In Ch.F.. 


:ll!. Products & Chemicals, Inc_,_ BP.A. in Acct. MllA with Acct. background. B,M in Ch.JC. 
Nai~Fr~t:~& Compa~. 
Rfl"' in Acct. 

~!!~_!."al __f!ectric Company. liRA in Accountancv-only. --for Fin. Mgt:. l'r•jp,, ll,M i.n I·I.E., E.E., M.E.N.0., M.F..'".O,, Ch.!L, A.F., Ch""'· Hnrl Physics. 
Combustion Engineering -Combustion Div. B,M,D tn Ch.F.., M.E., E.F.., C.E. Jl,M in ,~alh., Comp.Sci. B in Physics. Contf.nental Illinois National Bank of Chi~.· 
B. in Math., Comp.Sci., Bus. Ad. or Lib. Arts. MBA. General Electric Company. -Advertising & Pub. Re~-· B in Lib. Arts and Bus. Ad. Northwestern University -School of Law. All interested students. 
discussions, final summaries and conclusion. Rev. Haven Kelley, pastor of Sunnyside Presbyterian Church will moderate the program. 
Dr. Gordon elected to Argonne Ass'n. 
Dr. Robert E. Gordon, vice president for advanced studies at the University of Notre Dame, has been elected to the Argonne Universities Association <AUA) 
board of trustees. 
The AUA, a Consortiun1 of 30 
universities, and the University of 
ChicagQ operate the U.S. Atomic 
Energy Commission's Argonne 
National Laboratory, located near 
Egypt states cease-fire conditions 
CAIRO <UPI)-Egypt will not agree to a cease-fire with Israel unless there is an ironclad guarantee that Israel withdraws from all Arab territory captured in the 1967 war, political officals said Monday. 
"All talk of Egypt seeking to destroy Israel or to throw it into the sea is nonsense," one official said. 
"All we want is our land. We are not to acquire territory. We also want to see the rights of the Palestinian people restored." 
The current Egyptian offensive, the sources said, seeks only to drive Israel back to its original 1948 international border, meaning completely out of the Sinai Peninsula. Israel also occupies the Golan Heights region of Syria and the Jordanian West Bank of the Jordan riv~,;r. 
As the informants clarified Egypt's position in the war, the ranking U.S. diplmat in Cairo called at the foreign ministry to deliver Washington's reply to Egyptian charges that two American reconnaissance planes flew over Egypt Saturday for "spying." 
Richard W. Smith, acting chief of the American diplomatic mission, met Saad Khalil, director of the foreign ministry's North American department. 
There was no immediate word of the American reply, and U.S. diplomats declined comment beyond confirming the meeting. 
PITT BUS 
NOON THURSDAY 
FROM CCE 
CALL BOB 2127 FOR SEATS 
Charter Group 
Flight to Orient 
call Toll Free (800) 227-1969 {u.s. 
except California) 
(800) 982-5827 
(California only) 
If you plan a trip to Japan, Hong Kong & Orient, make sure giv~ us a call -a big savmgs. 

Chicago. The association's responsibilities include for­mulating, approving and reviewing policies, programs and budgets of the Laboratory. 
Dr. Evans trernslates 
Martains last book 
Joseph W. Evans, director of the Jacques Maritain Center at the University of Notre Dame, has translated the late French philosopher's last book, "On the Church of Christ: The Person of the Church and Her Personnel," 
which  will  be  published  in  
November  by  the  University  of  
Notre Dame Press.  

A friend of the noted philosopher who died earlier this year at the age of 91, Dr. Evans has translated several other Maritain books including a major work, "lntegrai Humanism.'' Originally. published in 1968, this book recently was re­issued by the University of Notre Dame Press. 
In addition to directing the Maritain Center,· which was established in 1958 by the University as an international clearing house for research and publications on the philosopher's work, Evans is an associate professor of philosophy at Notre Dame. 
Now You Know 
Rats fed a diet deficient in calories live up to 40 per cent longer then rats fed a normal balanced diet. 

CLASSIFIED ADS 
wanted 
i am going to be disowned unless I geet 3-4 GA tix for my father for any home game but Air force. Will pay $$. Call 4077. 
Desperately need GA tix of the Army and Navy games. Call 1364. 
neeed Navy tix. Judy 4970. 
Need 2 or more GA USC tix. Call Nick 7920. 
Need tix to USC. Please call Dan at 282-1568. 
Despeerately need 8 stud. USC tix. Will meet inflationary demands. Call Pat 288-5563. 
Will trade cash and -or 4th row section C Paul Simon tix tor decent Carpenters tix (I need 2 or 4). Call 234-7082. 
Need GA tix to USC. Call Phil 1598. 
Need 2 Navy tix. Call Jeff 1137. 
Desperately need 6-10 GA USC tix. Will pay good money if necessary. Call 4773 or 1654. 
Desperateely need 3 GA USC tix . Call 7835 now. 
MNed 2-4 GA tix to Navy call Frank 8826 after 8 pm. 
Pay $22 for GA tix USC. Call Larry 1072. 
Deesperately need 4 GA tix tor Navy. Will pay. Call Joe 3274. 
Neeed 2 GA Navy tix. Will pay $$. Call 3129. 
Openings for grad student with past supervisory experience in food service. Approx. 20 hrs. week. Apply Personell. Brownson Hall, ND. 
Army ticket needed, call Gene at 3647. 
Beginneer needs ineexpensive guitar. Call 5749. 
Need 2 GA tix. Army. Call 283­1773. 
Desperately need Army tix. Call Beh 7401 or Mike 8736. 
Really need 3 GA USC tix. 
Pleease call Evelyn 6956. 
Need 3 USC tix, 4 Navy tix. Call Tom 6522. Will pay. 
Neeed Army tix. Call tom 232­2693. 
RIDES WANTED 
NEED RIDE TO DETROIT OR GROSSE POINTE WED. AFTEERNOON. CALL CHRIS AT 6586 · 
Need ride to Cincy Thurs. Will pay expenses. Call 1027. 
Help! Need ride to Newark , Delaware ( U of Delaware) tor Oct. break. Share expeenses. Andy 1623. 
Ride wanted Pittsburgh.  Can  
leeave Thurs. afternoon.  Call  
Mike 3287.  

FOR SALE 
Pontiac Bonneville convertible Power Steering + brakees, New eenginee, $200 or best offer. Call 282-1049. 
Yamaha guitar GFG-300 (reetail price $300) rosewood; inlaid pearl, adjustable bridge, hardsheell case, excelleent condition. Call David 8427. 
Guild Bass guitar. IDSeemi hard case Call Jim 1409. 
6 GA's Air Force, 233-4557 before 10 am, afteer 12:30 pm' 
FOR RENT 
Large 1 br apt. Completeely remodelleed + furnished with full kitchen. Utilitiees paid. $135 per mo. Call 232-6622. 
2 room apt for reent. Call after 5 pm 288-9533. 
Double house for rent-807 Portage, 4 or more BRs . 2 Baths, 2 kitchens utilities in­cluded. Call 256-0111 for details. 
NOTICES 
Will do typing: term papeers, manuscripts,etc. Call 233-6909. 
Morrissey Loan Fund can loan up to $150 at 1peer cent interest , 1 day waiting peeriod. 
Basemnt of LaFortune 11:15­
12:15. Mon-Fri. 
THE OMBUSMAN SEERVICE WILL SUSPEND OPERATIONS ON WED. OCT. 17AT JPM FOR SEMEESTER BREAK AND WILL RESUMEE SERVICE ON OCT. 23 AT NOON. 
GSU SOCIAL COMMITTEE is looking for members. Be a BPOC; fringee benefits reitirement plan, etc. Call Paul B. at 6615 or 272-7405. 
PITTSBURGH CLUB+ 
THEERE IS A BUS TO 
PITTSBURGH FOR SEMESTEER BREAK. 
QUESTIONS BOB -­2127 JOHN 1786. 
European Study Tour--Dec 27­Jan 15. England, Ireland, scotland, and Wales. 3 College cnedHs availble. $679 all expenses from NY. For in­formation call Prof. A. R. 
Balck SMC 4948. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost Navy Wallet Between Huddle and Circle. Call Kathy 4554. 
Black Mutt found in Flann·er Area. Call 1409. 
Lost White Gold ND ring. Initial BMP $10 R•eward Call 1868. . 
Lost JavElin Key ring. Pleease call MCP 4728. 
.. 
---~-~ 

8 the observer Tuesday, October 16, 1973 
.....----~­
I 
l 
Keenan upsets Stanford. Dillon keeps on winning 
by Sam Yannucci Sunday, Oct. 14 HOWARD 28 LYONS 0 GRACE 14 OFF CAMPUS 0 By destroying hapless Lyons on 
Some football teams follow the Sunday afternoon, Howardphilosophy, "a good offense is the Grace's defense, not entirely remained atop the League No. 1best defense," but in topsy-turvy content with just stopping other standing.

IH football, a good defense may teams from scoring, became the The barrage began when Patbecome a potent offense. This offense Sunday afternoon and Brinkman intercepted a Lyon'sweek defensive teams scored scored itself on three separate
no pass and sprinted 50 yards for thefewer than five touchdowns and occasions. 
TD. Carl Oberzutz then hit Garythree safeties. The first "6" came as a result of Pannone with 30 and 10 yard touch­Leading the defensive chargers John Kelley's blocked punt. Grace down strikes. 


was Keenan's Paul Riorden, who built a lead of 12-0 when an Off­Rick Arrensberg added a fourth in blocking a punt for a TD in both Campus fumble popped into the score on a 20 yard burst. A safety the Stanford and Flanner games, hands of Mike Atley, who after capped the scoring for Howardgave Keenan identical S-O victories momentary astonishment, dashed 
now 3-0-1. 

as well as the League No. 3 lead. 20 yards for the score. 
While punters seemed to have The final two points came ap­MORRISSEY 14 ZAHM 0 trouble getting the ball in the air, propriately enough when the quarterbacks didn't (you've come Grace defense chased the Off­
Morrissey, a disappointmenta long way, baby!). Performances Campus QB out of the end zone on early in the season, is beginning toby Sorin's Rick Chamberlain<7-12), the last play of the game. 

play like the Marauders of old.

Morrissey's Tim Puntarelli (5-8, 80 DILLON 20 ALUMNI 8 They struck quick, on the fourthyds.), and Dillon's Jeff Pampush play of the game, when PuntarelliAlumni may have entertained(7-8, 154 yds.) highlighted the passed 52 yards to Bob Zierk.
sugar plum visions of victory, but

action. Then in the third quarter ,
by mid-Sunday afternoon these

Wed., Oct. 10 tailback Gerry Richardson raced
plums had turned sour. 

0 32 yards with an insurance touch­
CAVANAUGHO HOWARD The Big Red, who usually play down. Richardson was busy allHoward Hall decided that rather more conservatively han Woody afternoon carrying the ball 9 times than play Cavanaugh at full Hayes (if that's possible), stunned for 90 yards. The Marauderstrenth at 1G:OO, they'd keep game Alumni with a surprise passing defense chalked up its secondtime at seven. Nonetheless, attack. QB Pampush hit Billy Hoy yards, consecutive shut out and hasCavanaugh, minus seven starters with strikes of 12 and 60 yielded only a scant 8 points in fourplayed the south quad team to a while tailback Joe Reppenhoff games.
scoreless tie. An interception in added one more TD on a 4 yd. trap the end zone by Kevin Ford in the play. 
HOLY CROSS 14 SORIN 14waning moments of the contest Dillon is now guaranteed at least 

preserved the deadlock and kept P. tie for the League No. 2 cham Sorin appeared to be on its wayboth Cavanaugh and Howard pionship. Much credit goes to to routing Holy Cross when theyamong the ranks of the undefeated. their six offensive linemen: opened a 14-0 half time lead. QB
Inghram, Coldstead, Barty, 
Rick Chamberlain (7-12 for the
Cunningham, Rodriquez, and
MORRISSEY 8 ST. JOE 0 game) pitched twice to halfback
Gore, who have played well all 
Denny O'Brien for the scores.
season.
Wednesday night was cool, but Holy Cross narrowed the gap in
KEENAN 8 FLANNER 0

not nearly as cool as Morrissey QB the third period when Paul Marnt­Tim Puntarelli. His passing Keenan's second win of the week cello scored from 4 yds. out. Then enabled the Marauders to move was identical in score and detail in the fourth quarter, QB Mark the ball well against a staunch St. 
to its win over Stanford Wednesday Angelan, '10t to be out done byJoe defense. night. ChamberlaiQ passed 60 yards to 
Gerry Richardson notched For over three quarters it ap­Larry McGies making it 14-12. 

Morrissey's only touchdown when peared that the game would end in Marntcello then added the all he broke loose for 5 yds. Paul a not so unusual IH way, 0-0. But important 2 point conversion. 
Furey then added the extra points. with three minutes left in the As it turned out , that was all the contest, Paul Riorden againscoring Morrissey needed. The 
blocked a punt that gave KE~enan 

Marauder defense, led by captain its second stright 8-0 win. Badgers capture Tim McCalley and MLB Dave If Keenan ever gets its offense in 
Murphy, who nailed enemy ball­
gear (they have not scored yet>,

carriers 10 times, completely ND Invitational
they may be a serious contender 

shackled St. Joe's offense. 
for the IH crown. by Hal Munger 

t 
KEENAN 8 STANFORD 0 
ST. JOE 12 CAVANAUGH 0 

I . ­St. Joe had not scored in two Two hundred forty-five harriers
In the finale of the night, consecutive games while, up until fron1 thirty-five schools competedStanford, which had looked im­this game, Cavanaugh had not in the 18th annual Notre Damepressive in its opening victory, was been scored on. "But on any given Cross Country Invitational on thedone in by numerous turnovers and day ... " the saying goes, and Burke Memorial golf coursePaul Riorden 's first blocked punt. 

Sunday was a given one. Friday afternoon. Gordon Minty,Pete Bursik recovered the St. Joe broke the scoreless tie in of Eastern Michigan, the NCAAI fumble for the score and John the third quarter when George three-mile and five-mile champion 

I 
Golden's conversion jaunt gave Gulyas bombed 40 yards to Tony .won the race in a record 23:36. HeKeenan the 8-0 lead. 
Yonto and then iced the contc~t in broke the 23:44 record of Mike 

T~e game was completely 
the final stanza when defensive Slack set in 1972 despite a sloppy 

! 
dommated by the two outstanding back, Pat Kidwell, stole a course and rain at racetime.
D's. Both Keenan and Stanford's Cavanaugh pass and ramblled 30 Dave Kamps of North Dakotadefensive units have yet to be yards for the score. State finished s1~ond in a time of
scored upon. 23:47 while Mark Johnson of 
Spartans dump Irish JVr's 
Wisconsin came through with a 
23:49 clocking. Lucian Rosa of Wisconsin Parkside, and Craig MacDonald of Bowling Greencaught by fellow lineman Mike

by John Fineran came in fourth and fifth respec­
Combest. 
tively.
Overall, the Spartans heldl the

The Michigan State JV squad Seven runners from each team
statistical edge, outgaining the

gained revenge for its varsity's 14-ran with the top five finishers
Irish in total yards, 307-247.

10 loss to Notre Dame, and in the earning team points. Wisconsin
Lawson hit six of 11 passes for 126

process, gave Denny Murphy's JV went away with team honors,
yards, while tailback Richard

team its first loss of the season, 7-0, garnering 81 points on 3, 9, 19,.
Baes rambled for 136 yards on 30

yesterday at East Lansing. 21 and 29 place finishes. Eastern
carries.

The game's only touchdown Michigan gathered 113 points and came in the third quarter. Faced Trosko and Rick· Slager splilt the second place. Ball State, Michigan with a third-and-eightfrom his own quarterbacking for Notre Dame, and North Dakota State completed 14-yardline, Spartan quarterback Slager hitting seven of 13 passes the top five. Notre Dame finished Marshall Lawson hit Tony Ransom for 77 yards and two interceptions. 21st. over the middle of the MSU 40, and Freshman halfback Dan Knott Joe Yates was the first Irish the split end carried it the rest of carried 17 times for the IJrish, runner across the finish line in the way for an 86-yard touchdown. netting 92 yards, while sophomore 24:52 seconds. His 33rd place was Scott Hilty converted the extra­fullback Tom Parise gained 55 followed by Mike Housely 68, Mike 
point. yards on 17 tries. Gahagin 110, Jim Reinhart 115, and Notre Dame's only serious Greg Marino 167. The· rain coupled 
Notre Dame (3-1) and Michigan

threat of the afternoon came on with several flu-stricken Irish 
(1-1) will meet again this coming

their first possession. Quarterback hampered ND's )performance'
Monday

Fred Trosko's pass on the MSU afternoon on Friday. Coach Don Faley's men
Cartier Field. The kickoff is

three was deflected by Spartan run against Indiana University at
scheduled for 12:30 p.m.

defensive end Jim Epolito and home Friday. 

Interhall football entered its third week with a few upsets and a few comebacks. 
John Fineran:==========================:========:======================:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
Blarney Stone(d) 
::::===:=============:===::=========:=:=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::===Homecoming ' 
Saturday's encounter with Army will have special meaning to many people. For the two schools, it will be the 41st contest of the series which dates back to 1913, the year those young upstarts from Indiana, led by Rockne and Dorais, passed the Cadets silly in a 35-13 upset. 
For the alumni of Notre Dame, it will mean another Saturday of ... well, you know. 
For myself, it will be a homecoming of sorts, because on the opposite side of the field, wearing the Cadets' black-and-gold, will be number 54, an old friend and current Army co-captain, Skip Whitman. 
Skip and I spent our first 10 years on this Earth together in that Burbank of the East, Livingston, New Jersey. At least his family was smart. They moved to the shore when the town got boring. I'm still stuck in the place. 
The two of us had many great times together. There was seldom anything that came between our friendship. Whatever I had, Skip always wanted, and vice-versa. 
My Momcan still remember hearing a noise one day coming from the kitchen. When she entered to see what it was, there standing on a chair with a hand in the cookie jar, was Skip. She also tells me that everytime I went outside with a new toy, Skip would come over, hit me in the stomach, and take it away. 
After his family moved to the Jersey Shore, my visits with him were less·and-less frequent, but we still had fun. Like the time we shot off some rockets, accidentally setting a bush on fire. Or the time we went swim­ming in his backyard and played one of the roughest games of water football imaginable. 
I'll always remember that game because it came after I had been at Notre Dame for a year. Here was Skip, the epitome of an athlete, muscles bulging from his disciplined body. And here I was, the epitome of almost every college student, a beer-gut hanging over my trunks. 
I wonder now if he is thinking along the same lines I am. I wonder if he is .thinking that Notre Dame is coming this week. I wonder if he is getting sick to his stomach. 
After all, much has been said about the Army schedule. So far this season, the Cadets have met Tennessee, California, Georgia Tech and last week, Penn State. They would have been better off trying to take on St. Mary's . At least they would have won that game. 
This Army season is not going to improve any this Saturday for Skip, either. Although he has been playing with a bad knee, he has been playing. When other players, lesser players, would have qualified 4-F, Skip continues to pay. 
I feel sorry for him, I really do. After all, being a linebacker, he will have to bump heads with Wayne Bullock, Art Best, Eric Penick and several other players who surpass his 6-0, 2l5lb. frame. But knowing Skip the way I do, he'll find the inner strength to combat them, and they'll know he's there. 
Skip Whitman is a proud ballplayer. The Cadets are a proud football team. And, although I will be cheering for the Irish on Saturday, I will also be cheering for Skip Whitman. 
When the game is over, l"llleave the pressbox to go to the Army dressing room. I'll go up to my .friend and congratulate him, win or lose. For then, the game, which will have come between two friends, will be a thing of the past. 
It has been a tough comeback for Brian Doherty, Notre Dame's senior punter. A lot of people tend to forget that Doherty was injured severely (torn knee ligaments) in last season's Orange Bowl, requiring surgery after the game. 
Doherty did not participate in spring drills with the Irish this year. As he sat on the sidelines, he watched sophomore Tony Brantley kick superbly. Doherty was worried, first about his knee and second about the punting job he had held for the past two seasons. 
He need not worry anymore. In his first three games this season, after beating out Brantley in pre-season drills, Doherty has averaged a phenomenal44.4 yards per kick. During his previous two seasons, he had only averaged 38.9 and 38.4, but the height of his kicks allowed for few enemy returns. 
If Doherty can continue his pace, he will easi.Jy break the Notre Dame season average of 40.02 yards held by Bill Shakespeare. Doherty already has broken the Irish mark for career punting yardage with his 4,715 yards..~so in jeopardy is the all time ca~eer kicks mark (122) held by Bob Wilhams. Doherty and former He1sman Trophy-winner Johnny Lattner are tied for second with 119 each. 
Ithas been a tough comeback for Brian Doherty, but it has been a very satisfying one . 
, 





